

X
■
©
few-
D
Suit Cases
Attache Cases
Hat Cases
Cabin Trunks
li FORDITE |,l
J[CIAWAHTEE&y
LOOK FOR THE BRANDS
They guarantee
e
Quality and Streng'th
BUY FROM ALL STORES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND
HEAD OFFICE:
STREET, SYDNEY.
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.,
MANUFACTURERS.
■ • • -
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES
ALL STATES.
The Bulletin
The Great Serial , “A Rogue in Amber -—Read it!
Vol. 50. —No. 2560.
Wednesday, March 6, 1929.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


W R ™L FOR THE library cata-
V- .LOGTJE - AND LISTS on all subjects
f?ee Ch to Wlll be Iorward ‘ :d on application, post
DYMOCK’S IBOOK ARCADE, LTD
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
frettaceJou™'™
THis Booß FREE to YOU'
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence Colleae
100 Russell Street, Melbourne 0
Please send, without obligation, your New free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit n.
advertised in the Sydney Bulletik. * *
My Name
My Address ...................
è
STAMMERING AND STUTTERING
CAN BE CURED IN YOUR OWN HOME
Send TO-DAY for particulars of “Perfect Speech” and copies of letters from
those who have been cured. Philip o*Bry6n HoaVej M.B.i.jtSc. (London) (The
Stammerers’ Friend)* Spefeialist in Piiblifc Sneaking ind the Cure of Stammering
iind Stuttering.
ADDRESS!
SS BRISBANE ARGADE, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
P.O, Box 1142 P.
'Hf MEW
THE Pew
ORIENT L
Baser* L. 0* Sloan Ltd ■ .^.SZPTiaiBgRaS,
The Pen Corner
Kingaway. E.C. 2„
Gentlemen
** tdkt in tils use or a tstenau • Pm,
ntf-tnA iu , *5 ra ** a ***!■* **, m ® not only our old pens which hare
isw:£\i%.x,?: br “ d nev in
«* “ foun4 •* **
And what beautiful pencils, too*
with the autog’rapho°which SnT£ “i“ * Ut * ° ope
fHi d *4*^,^*
T*
JLunXarsi
~ u =* J Hrb*'
lAv
r
H
A
-fl
Cx
/&.
SS
VS*
Did you get their auto-
graphs ? If not, cut out this
letter, as the next best
thing, and keep it. it is a
letter of appreciation writ-
ten by the M.C.C. team
while on their way to
Australia, and it is signed by
every man in the team. It
is a remarkable tribute to
a remarkable pen, and you
cannot do better than follow
the example of Chapman's
men and do all your writing
with a Waterman's —by
every test the best*
ASK ANY STATIONER
to show you his range of Waterman’s Pens including
the new Two-Tone Ripple Colours —Ripple Blue
Green, Ripple Rose and Ripple Olive, in stainless
hard rubber, the most satisfactory material for
fountain pens.
Watermans
WATERMAN S ©
0 0
If any illustration in “
fancy, write to the Managei
for the original.
Bulletin” takes your
will quote you price
NOT A
MUSTDIE
>WDER.
Is that Fly!
Although “Mustdie” is so
thoroughly destructive to
insect life, it can be used
with absolute safety, as
it is perfectly harmless to
man, beast, fowl and
canaries. Use the “Must-
die” Spreader, for it is
not only economical, but
<he powder is distributed
w
MUSI
NON POIMNOCO R3VDCR.
( rficSw
I Deax
) Boas.
é
more effectively, and we
want you to get the best
results out of every ounce
of this great insect
destroyer.
Sold everywhere, or
forward 1/. in stamps
to Box 1520 G.P.0.,
Sydney, _ jj’
The Red Page
THE PLOT COMPETITION
The Prize-winners.
The judges in The Bulletin’s First
Novel Competition reported that most of
the entries showed deficient invention. To
encourage young writers to practise plot-
construction The Bulletin decided to hold
another little competition at the first oppor-
tunity. That opportunity offered with the
publication of Mr. Cronin’s fine story
“Bracken” as a serial. The eighth instal-
ment was due on January 23. There then
remained five or six instalments to complete
the story. Readers of the Woman’s Mirror
were invited to say in about 300 words
how they would use those instalments—
how, in short, they would finish the story.
In all there were 716 entries; and many
of them showed much constructive
ingenuity. After giving them all very care-
ful consideration it was decided to allot
the prizes as follows:
1 (£2O) France Murphy, Casterton (Vic).
2 (£10) Frederick Olver, Gardenvale
(Vic).
3 (£5) Mrs. V. Cantwell, Ballarat (Vic.).
4 (£1) Mrs. R. S. Prosser, Lower Burde-
kin (Q.)
A brief synopsis of the story up to the
point where it was left on January 23 will
be printed next week, along with the sug-
gested endings for which prizes have been
given.
Later these and other submitted endings
will be discussed on this page.
THE YORICK
6.—A New Light on Kendall.
following hitherto unpublished Henry Kenda
letter* continue last week’s article and conclud
the series.]
Bth Sept., 1880.
At the advice of Messrs Dailey, Wisdom
(our Attorney-General) and others, I ai
bringing out a volume of serious and satir
cal poems. I will dedicate t,he book to
mountain. It will be out in November, anc
its cover will embrace 240 pages. I an
risking £lOO over it.
The roots of Stephens’s poetry are kep
alive by the waters of scholarship. He lack
the loftier qualities of the poet; his expres
sions are not always clear; still, he ha
genius ; and his “Black Gin” is indisputabl
an Australian poem. There can be no doub
that my reputation is much wider than tha
of Stephens. It is even wider than yours
because your voice is for scholars and think
ers only.
* * * *
~ , Sept. 8, 1880.
At my best I am merelj’’ a writer of song
—chiefly satirical. You have not seen m
bla.ckfellow poems. I can out-blackfello\
Stephens..
My dear old man, I am so d—d tired tha
I cannot go on.
* * * *
' . , . . . Oct. 2, 1880.
4he book will disappoint you, but th
verses that eclectics like you will sneer a
are the ones that Tom, Jack and Harry wil
admire. I want to make friends of thes
gentlemen with a view to the recovery o
my outlay. Too queer to write any more
I have heard someftalk of Marcus Clarke’
preface to poor Gordon’s poems. What is
it like?
* * * *
_ Oct. 21, 1880.
I want you to know the bearer. He is tin
man who led me out of Gethsemane and se
me in the sunshine.
I need not say any more on this point
Mr. Michael Fagan is the “boss” of the
business lam engaged in. He and his
brothers are leading men in Sydney com
nw-rcial society. Of course, the big show
[Exhibition] has attracted him to your evi
metropolis. You will find that Mr Fagan
is not a poet. Indeed, he can proudly say
I «, av e never written a line of verse in my
life. However, he is a good fellow, a lover
of everything excellent in form or expres-
sion, and a critic of no mean order
* * *
T . ~ Oot. 28th, 1880.
I should like to see [Giwrnet] Walch’s
book. He has no right to publish verses of
mine; but he is a good fellow. My portrait
has never been taken, nor is it likely that
it will be taken.
*** ' *
W v . . . , Dec. Bth, 1880.
What is up with Marcus Clarke? I gave
Fagan a _ letter to him, but, although he
lt ’ i he r! 00 . k car , e to kee P out
Fagan s road. Perhaps he is - in trouble.
Haying not even seen a village for th“
tfnn SI p C & ear w worriod at y°ur descript-
ion of the Exhibition. The only great pic-
tures known by me are those drawn by
Nature itself. Music I never hear
* * * ’*
i Dec. 28th.
My volume came out about 12 days ago
but was almost immediately withdrawn from
sale. This was owing to a political satire
which frightened the chicken-hearted pub-
lisher, I have been obliged to supply a new
2°?“ take the place of the satire, and
the edition will be re-issued in a few days
Owing to the lampoon there is a great
demand for the book. Nearly £2OO worth
of copies have been ordered. I have to stand
the cost of republishing.
* * * *
at, , Feb - 19th, 1881.
As I have, made £BO by my book I am
perfectly indifferent to the Australasian
I may mention that my blackfellow verses
were published three years before Stephens
was known.
* * * *
T> ., 2nd April, 1881.
Did you see Clarke’s paper on Stephens
and myself published in the Leader? Why
do you not chance a volume? Surely to
Cod a bloated Govt, swell like you must
have money!
* * sk
April 2nd, 1881.
The first edition of my book, 1000 copies,
has gone off.
I am about to receive the newly-created
ofhce of Superintendent of State Forests here.
The screw is £5OO per annum. Remember
me to what is left of the old crowd.
* * * *
March 26th, 1881.
Who the devil is Mr. Meadon? With a
face of shame I confess that 1 have been
beaten by a Counter-jumper.
There were (ign/Q, fellows in for your
cantata, and my verses signed Izimbah only
secured third place. They were poor, how-
ever. having been written in two hours in
the heat and worry of pressing business. I
dashed them off in a fire of interruptions, and
posted them forthwith, not even having time
to revise them.
It is reported that Brunton Stephens con-
tended—if he did I am not surprised at his
defeat. lie is a man of unquestionable
genius, but he cannot write to order.
But hang Mr. Meadon!
Still, genius crops up in strange places.
„• You will see a satire of mine in the next
issue of the S.M.H., that of April 3.
* * * *
August 20th, 1881.
The death of poor Clarke was a great
blow. Only four months ago I received a
genial letter from him. I published a short
In Memoriam in the Sydney Mail, and an-
other in verse has been sent to The Bul-
letin. Clarke, like the rest of us, had his
failings; but at the bottom lie was all gold,
I intend to do my best here for the unhappy
widow. Remember me to the mournful rem
nant of the old crowd, and believe me, etc.
* * * *
[Ti* verse mentioned in this letter appeared in
The Bulletin for September 3, 1881. The verse,
written at Camden Haven, begins:
The nightwind sobs on cliffs austere
Where gleams by fits the wintery star;
And in the wild dumb woods I hear
A moaning harbor bar.
The poet speaks of the “clear, bright beauty” of
Marcus Clarke’s eyes, and of struggle against sickness
and the “lot austere” of the writer, and ends:
So let him sleep, whose life was hard!
And may they place, beyond the wave,
This tender rose of my regard
Upon his tranquil grave.]
* * * *
, . October sth. 1881.
Your description of poor Clarke’s death-
bed is very terrible. How did he manage to
lose his billet? The Melbourne correspon-
dent of the S.M.H, (James Smith, I think)
made an attack upon him in that paper.
The Sydney Bulletin is the most ’ suc-
cessful paper of its kind that has ever been
issued in this colony. It is very clever, and
the flavor of scandal running through it
makes it sell. Stephens is about to issue his
magnum opus. I suppose you saw poor
Clarke s article on Stephens and myself
Marcus was rather hard on the Queenslander.'
(Continued on page 5.)


“Truth in Advertisingthe bulwark of our reputation for honest trading .
Your E-aster Suit!
Tailored Perfectly by
Anthony Horderns
from
k!-
Undoubtedly you can buy your suit to the best advantage at Anthony Horderns’; for all the newest
fabrics come direct from the mills to our showrooms, and then your suit is cut and made entirely by our
own tailors, in our own workrooms.
Consequently every suit made by Anthony Horderns’ combines superiority of material, cut and fit, with
genuine economy.
A great display o'f suitings in the newest tones and designs for Autumn and Winter wear is now showing.
You can choose from fancy Worsteds in Greys, Browns and two-tone effects, or from Indigo Dye
Serges, for a suit made to measure at £5/15/-
For Suits at £6/15/-, the fabrics include better quality Serges, also Suitings in Plain Greys, Fancy
Blues or new Pastel shades.
We also offer a large variety of better quality Serges, Worsteds and Scotch Tweeds for Suits ranging
from £7/17/6 to £lO/10/-
Remember, there are no extra charges whatever for unusual size or style, and every garment is guaranteed.
Dept.—Ground Floor . Carriage Paid.
'xm
Ml
t a
m
/ i
m
'lill/IIL %
s>
Write for book of FREE Patterns and Self-Measurement Form. These will be
sent post FREE on request.
RNS’
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O,


CHRYSLER
Demanded everuwherefor superior value
that Original Style and
Sparkling Performance
To-day's stimulus to
produce new motor-
car style and perform-
ance is, in the truest
sense, a tribute to Chrysler.
The quickening of interest in
automobile appearance and
action dates hack to five years
ago—to the introduction of the
first Chrysler, which has ever
since served as a pattern to im-
prove the standards of an
industry.
Chrysler—with the new style
that re-styles all motor-cars —
is to-day more than ever the
leader of the industry.
The new Chryslers are not only
individual and unique—they
are original.
give
They are graceful and
pleasing—the natural
development of the
principle of dynamic
symmetry instituted in the first
Chrysler—providing ample
room and comfort without
oversize and bulk.
In power, acceleration, safety
and ease of control, to-day’s
Chryslers excel even the
earlier Chryslers. The years
have proved the dependability
and long life which Chrysler
Standardised Quality gives.
Not even for a great deal more
can you equal elsewhere the
things the new Chryslers give.
Chrysler’s largest production
is taxed to supply the universal
demand for Chrysler’s
superior value.
tfffj
J
n
if
Note the new graceful cap,
slender - profile chromium - plated
radiator, bowl-shaped lamps, and
“air-wing” fenders.
For tzventy years designers
have fretted over the clumsi-
ness of Radiators. Until
Chrysler showed the zvay!
New sweep and curve of the
rear deck of roadster and
coupe is a distinctive feature
of the new Chrysler body
style.
70%
Chrysler “arched - window”
silhouette for closed models
gives a particularly pleasing
effect inside and outside the
car.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W.: Larke, Neave & Carter, Ltd., William Street, Sydney.
Vic.: Collins Motors Tty., Ltd., Collins Street , Melbourne.
Q’land: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
South Aus.: 0. T. Rodda Motors, Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West Aus.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington.
Lew Guinea: W. R , Carpenter & Co., Ltd., Rabaul.
C 104.


Hi
mss>.
m
'yP.
iii? smoking
. mixtUKE
Smoke the best Tobacco
in the best of pipes
“DJ. SPECIAL MIXTURE** TOBACCO
AND A PLUS FOUR PIPE
A tobacco specially blended to suit even the most
fastidious taste ! Made from the most carefully selected
and matured leaf. One ounce 9d. Packed in air-tight
tins, | lb. specially priced at 3/- ; \ lb. tin, price 6/- ;
i lb. tin for only .. .. .. .. 11/9
Plus Four Pipes made from the finest Corsican bruyere
with hand-cut mouthpiece, each .. .. 10/6
AT THE TWO MEN’S SHOPS
LOWER GROUND FLOOR, NEW STORE
BRANCH SHOP OPPOSITE G.P.O.
DAVID JONES’
for Service
The Essex Evans Verse
In reply to toy depreciation of the rhymes
Of G. Essex Evans, Firmin McKinnon
(R P. 20/2/’29) said that I failed to produce
legitimate argument in support of my asser-
tion that Evans was not a podt. I had,
he said, lashed myself into a fury and
attempted to judge poetry Ori its worst
lines. What I should have done, he Said,
tvas to judge it by its general conception,
by its atmosphere, its clarity, its color and
its message; and, I suppose, the greatest of
these is clarity.
I am grateful, but Unmoved.
The argument I used was to qilote sundry
morsels of dread doggerel and assert that
they were typical of Evans. I repeat, typical
of Evans. I spoke in my natural voice, as
I am speaking now, without anger, certainly
without fury. If I sound furious, that is my
style, myself, my misfortune, and I cannot
help it. I did not judge on worst lines.
There are degrees even in doggerel. Here
is some more of the “national poet”:
Army stores were there in mounds,
Worth a hundred thousand pounds.
Those are Evans’s worst lines, and when
the Oxford Book of British Doggerel is
published it should include them. I do
hot say they are typical of Evans. These
are i
His hat looks W6rn. and his coat-sleeves shine,
As I Sfee bim step from his ’bus at nine;
His boots are pieced and his tie home-made,
And his trousers patched where the edge was frayed,,
And his face is lined by the stress of life
Where a mari must fight for his bairns and wife.
“Who’s that ?” I ask, as his face 1 scan.
And the answer comes, “0, an average man.”
So ar§ these (of Toowoomba):
Behold, dmid what wealth of vine and meadow
Thy maiden feet are set;
And on thy brow, firidimmed of care or shadow,
Thy civic coronet!
The exclamation mark is not mine.
Not to leave any doubt about it, I re-
assert that that is typical of the work of
Evans. To illustrate why it is doggerel
seems to me unnecessary and to say that
it is ’dreadful seems redundant. Quoting it
makes me think that a great advantage
with metrical composition is that it lends
itself so amiably to printed discussion. If
it were a statue, now, or the great horse
of Troy, I might say that it was crude and
Mr. McKinnon might say that it was very
good, and we should have to go into all
sorts Of whys and wherefores, and even then
the ultimate judges between us, our readers,
would probably have to take our word for
it; anyway, we couldn’t show them the
statue, not to mention the horse. But I
can quote what is in my opinion doggerel,
can lay it down flat before the reader, and
when I have added that it is typical, feel
satisfied that I have used an argument both
legitimate and strong. Then Mr. McKinnon
can come along and quote what, in his
opinion, is poetry, can lay it down flat
before the reader, and the reader has one
of us on toast. I notice, however, that
Mr. McKinnon does not quote a line in his
reply to me and quotes only two lines in
his introduction to Essex Evans’s verse.
Those lines are from the “Ode for Common-
wealth Day,” a composition which. I have
just discovered, drew from A. G. Stephens,
on the Red Page for January 5, 1901, an
article of about 2000 words, including these:
That is the “prize ode.” That is the verse which
has won Fifty Guineas in the N.S.W. Government’s
farcical competition.... Nice familiar little flowers
of phrase, each growing in its own neat little plot;
and the whole trim and tame and strictly suburban.
....Mr. Evans’s “ode” is frankly uninspiring, flatly
undistinguished.
I quote that because I regard Mr. Stephens
as the greatest literary critic Australia has
produced (his “Red Pagan” is out of print,
and will stay out of print so long as our
publishers remain blind enough to literary
merit to go on pottering about with “collec-
ted” editions of jingle). Also because Mr.
McKinnon mentioned critics of 23 years
ago who praised the work of Essex Evans,
and I wish to square up in antiquity. And
again because I place that ode in the very
brief list of Essex Evans verse, as distinct
from his poetry (which I cannot find), and
from his doggerel (which is super-abundant).
Mr. McKinnon’s effort to give Essex
Evans affinity with Burns, Tennyson,
Wordsworth and Browning on the ground
that they all wrote bad lines does not
disconcert me, whatever else it may do.
Burns, Tennyson, Wordsworth and Brown-
ing also wrote poetry.
I accept Mr. McKinnon’s statement that
in regard to Federation Essex Evans
“blasted out his message.” I like “blasted.”
I should like to accept, too, that in doing
the blasting he actually did combine “the
vision of a poet and the foresight of a
statesman.” What stays me is the amount
of open striving towards federation that
had been before the “vision” and the “fore-
sight” were made manifest. I can see
neither vision nor foresight in a writer’s
taking up of what is already a pretty com-
mon cry, even though he does blast louder
than anybody else is blasting or has blasted.
Finally (I am sorry to be so seriatim),
the patriotic element in Essex Evans’s
writing does not influence me one way or
the other. I should not “find a place for
Evans among the patriotic poets of the
language” simply because Evans did not
write poetry, patriotic or otherwise. Mr.
McKinnon’s assertion that “probably men
like MacCallum, Tucker, Strong, Murdoch
and Stable, all professors of poetry,” would
be willing to do that place-finding seems
to me unduly rough on those learned gentle-
men.
CECIL MANN.
Books Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a
committee of judges nominated by the
associated booksellers of Australia and
Maoriland. It is issued as a guide to new
books of merit.
General Literature. —Elizabeth and Essex,
by Lytton Strachey; The Intimate Papers
of Colonel House; My Autobiography, by
Benito Mussolini; Last Changes, Last
Chances, by 11. W. Nevinson ; Houdini, by
Harold Kellock; Daisy, Princess of Pless,
by Herself; Letters of the Empress
Frederick; An Elizabethan Journal, by G. B.
Harrison.
Fiction of Literary Merit. —Jehovah’s
Day, by Mary Borden; Action and Other
Stories, by C. E. Montague; An Australian
Story Book, collected by Nettie Palmer;
The Pathway, by Henry Williamson; All
Kneeling, by Anne Parrish; Unfinished
Symphony, by Graham Sutton.
Popular Reading. —Up the Country, by
Brent of Bin Bin; One Good Turn, by
Valentine; An Australian Story Book, col-
lected by Nettie Palmer; Alf's Carpet, by
W. A. Darlington; Miss Billy, by Constance
Mackness; All Kneeling, by Aune Parrish;
At the South Gate, by Grace S. Richmond.
A Satchel of Books
Wellington, by Oliver Brett (Heinemann).
This, according to the author, is not intended
as a description of the life and times of
Wellington ; “it makes an attempt to follow
him through his time, to seek him out in the
fog of war, to disentangle him from the
thickets of ancient politics.” The jargon of
the billiard-room can be well applied—the
idea was good; the execution isn’t. The
author does not disentangle his hero; he
gives so much surroundings sometimes that
it is difficult to see Wellington at all. How-
ever, anyone unacquainted with Wellington
and the setting in which he moved might do
a lot worse than meet the “Hindu soldier”
in these easy-flowing pages.
Precious Banc, with an introduction by
Stanley Baldwin, and Poems, with an in-
troduction by Walter de la Mare (Cape;
Itoycroft, Sydney). These volumes are in
the green-covered collected edition of Mary
Webb’s works. The novel won the Fomina -
Vie Heureuse Prize for 1024-25. The Poems
and the “Spring of Joy” essays that go with
them are in a different case. Thev are not
nearly so well known as they deserve to be.
Both, in common with pretty well every-
thing Mrs. Webb wrote, are fragrant with
the clean scent of the earth, but it has to
be admitted that she was a novelist first,
an essayist next and thpn a poet. Her poetry
has much beauty, but it is slender compared
with the fulness of much of her other work.
The author, who died in 1027, was bred from
Wales and Scotland, with Walter Scott ’way
back on the maternal side. The Cape edition
is a neat piece of bookmaking.
Come with Me, by Margaret Kennedy and
Basil Dean (Heinemann). After a good stage
sub. had fought a few rounds with-it, knock-
ing out a score or so of its people, this pi ly
would be in a fair state to permit its
authors to sit back and collect royalties.
The plot is good and has excellent dramatic
qualities. It is the story of a man with a
garage mind who marries a modern miss and
permits his jealousy, hotly fanned by an
old lover of his, to lead him into murdering
his wife’s lover. Out of that murder, which
occurs on the eve of a complete domestic
break-up, the couple draw reasons for recon-
ciliation. The characterisation, as might
be expect from the author of “The Constant
Nymph.” is very well done, and the play it
splendid reading.
The British Campaigns in Europe , 191 fi-
ts, by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle (Bles).
An enlarged edition of more than 1000
close-typed pages, with maps and diagrams
and with censored portions restored, dealing
in a vigorous style that makes very easy
reading, with Britain’s part of the war in
France, Flanders, Italy and Salonika. Read
ing the story at this date it is surprising even
to a Digger how largely Australia’s com
parative handful bulked in those campaigns
how well it fought, what an important part
it played in the steady climb to victory. Sii
Arthur shares with other qualified observers
a strong admiration for that handful. “Sol-
diers of the highest type,’’ is his finding, an- 1
in every few pages of his story—it read'
more like a great story than a cold-bloode '
history—those soldiers are found givina color
to the verdict. A fine and complete history
told with judgment and human insight, and
available at a moderate price.
Townshend of Chitral and Kut, by Erroil
Slierson (Heinemann). The life story of
that gallant gentleman who, after rolling up
the Turk in Mesopotamia with inadequate
forces, was finally beseiged in Kut, and, after
a long defence, forced to surrender. Towns-
hend, a brilliant soldier as it turned out,
failed to pass into Sandhurst, and only
some unfillable vacancies in the Marines gave
him his chance of wearing the Queen’s
livery as a commissioned officer. Ever on
the lookout for active service, or appoint-
ments that would lead up to it, he wangled
a Camel Corps job in Egypt, and was in the
thick of the fighting which ended with the
evacuation of the Soudan on the fall of
Khartoum. Followed a long period of service
in India, where he first made his reputation
with the defence of Chitral. Next the battle
of Omdurman. then South Africa, India once
more, then Mesopotamia, early success and
final disaster, the latter due to the feebleness
and procrastination of the Indian Govern-
ment of the day. which failed to supply him
with troops or supplies. After long captivity,
Townshend returned to England to find him-
self the scapegoat of War Office officialdom,
then the target of universal criticism, as a
result of the revelations of the Mesopotamia
Commission. He was refused 'a command
or promotion, placed on half-pay, and when
the honors list for the siege of Kut was pub-
lished, his name was not included. Small
wonder if, as his biographer asserts, he
died of a broken heart. He was deeply
learned in his profession, an intimate of
Foch and the newer French school of strate-
gists, and, as he proved in Mesopotamia,
a consummate commander in the field.
Answers to Correspondents.
Xo notice fexcept of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped,
Xame and address must appear on the MS. Xo liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
W.T.C: Pretty good every way; not very
good any way... .Ronald A.: A long way to go.
Even your rhymes are faulty yet P.T.T.: Alas,
more sparkling wine has been tipped into many an
old b00t....A. Koor: Listen to the first three lines:
The sun is shining, and oh so warm,
Whilst the plains are green, yes, green,
And oh the colors of the setting sun.
If you didn’t have quite enough wheat to fill a
bag, so dropped in a few pebbles, the miller would
be annoyed. We’re the miller... .Cygnet: The atten-
tion of the publishers has been drawn to the
errors... .W.T.P. : There’s almost everything in your
“Plantation” except poetry... .P.L.H.: Hard to get
any new thought into a song of thanksgiving for
rain; so the form has to be extra good. Still,
there’s enough in one of the others to justify a
word of encouragement... .Sitijin: What have we
ever printed to make you think we’d print that?....
W.F.W.: Rhymes are important, but the poet isn’t
justified in sacrificing everything else to reach them.
... .Tarpot: Get off those stilts. Did you ever meet
anybody who talked like that? If you did," he was
a dreadful bore... .K.D.S.: Has merit; but can’t see
where it would fit in... . It. Page: “Brent of Bin
Bin” may be Miles Franklin; but why should she,
want to hide herself ?... .Nemo: Bridget is a clumsy
mover... .W.D.F.: The craftsmanship is there, but
no warmth of feeling... .H.W.A.: Probably not. If
we thought a criticism would prejudice your chance
of acceptance elsewhere, we would be silent....
M.S.: Only moonlight and a weak vocabulary....
Good Day: Good night!... .Alexander T.: Not a bad
yarn. Aim at simplicity; avoid long words and
“fine writing” like the devil.... Screw: Take a seat,
sir, take a seat, and glad to meet you:—
Drank too many pegs.
Slept on the train line
And lost his legs.
A train passed by
And scruntched the bones
Of that poor old man,
Of poor old Jones.
They took him away
And fitted two pegs
Right in the place
Where he'd worn his legs.
Bye and bye Jonesy goes above,
The abode of peace,
And also love.
Old father Peter
Stickying round
Sings out loud:
“What’s this I’ve found?
Who made these holes,
Punched in the clouds?”
....Tinker’s Kurse: It is an act of professionalism
to play with or agaiast footballers who accept cash
for playing. Cricketers who receive cash for play-
ing are professionals. Under the rules of the par-
ticular body governing the game—the factor taken
into consideration by the Amateur Federation-
amateurs may play cricket with or against pro-
fessionals without infringing their status. .. .
H. Brooks; Well written and a good story; but
too depressing... .M.C.P.: Sorry to send it back:
but —well, you’re a woman, and are you being
kind to many unfortunates of your sex ?.... B. J.J.:
Can’t swallow that floating stack L.J.G.: Yes,
it’s a pretty good thing; but it was Donne who
thought of it first, and Donne is not here to
accept payment.... A. D. Gold: More misery ! Can
it be the weather? Stephen S., Jads, James
P., Isabel St., Roy C\. J.M.E., D.J.8., lona, A.A.G.:
Those McCrae reminiscences have crowded you out.
J.H.: Melodramatic and hysterical L.R.:
Well written, hut not enough in it N.O.T. ; Too
many crows and corpses... . L.McL.: Some swing in
“A Western River,” but at best it is an echo.
And there is a fatal feebleness in the final fine of
almost every verse.... Delta: You only say ditto to
the original article.... W.M.: Stick to football....
D. : Darned drivel E.R.E.: Snake story doesn’t
bite Cope; A loser H.P. : Your leopard will
have to change its spot. . . .8'.8.: Only \\ . M. Hughes
could do justice to it... .Astris: The opening is at
least promising:—■
It was on the Upper Burnett
That 1 made my first df‘but
As a native possum choker
With a mate from Wandaloo.
After that, inspiration seem to have deserted you.
P.0.T.: The “poem of your own creation” saddened
us to the verge of tears... .0.C.W.: Makes our
pink cover blush... .H.H.W.: Draws a blank....
E. : Philosophical generalisations about farming
aren’t wanted... .Pioneer: What you have said in
630 words is that 600 acres is the smallest area
on which wheat can be profitably grown....
H.M.W.: Your description couldn’t be made clear
without diagrams. Anyway, we can’t understand it.
.... Bert Cos.: One helping:—
Why is it that the English press
With joy accepts my lines
While here, I’m sorry to confess,
The press my verse declines?
’Tis strange Australians cannot see
Tha beauty of my poetry.
It may be strange, but your own vehement eulogies
on the excellence of your productions won’t help.
AV.J.: Stop trying to rhyme “babe” with
“serenade” and “suburb” with “bird”.... V.L.: The
hud doesn’t blossom... .J.F.P.: You just missed....
E.D.Y.: Very slight J.M.; Too shadowy..,.
J. 8.; Not bad, but far from convincing.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
K. 8.: No use for petrified flappers.... N.J.W.:
What’s the matter with your bushman? German
measles?.... T.H.W.: The next artist who puts a
kangaroo into cricket flannels will do it at his
jieril... .E.L.M.; Cork up your bottle of Indian ink.
.A.C.: Christmas-card drawing and mid-Victorian
pun....V.H.: A dud....G.K.: Let him send some-
thing of his own; can’t judge from copies. .. .8.L.:
It’s nothing to be proud 0f....E.W.: Sharks would
turn away from your bathers... .J.H.G.; The gag
lets you down. .. .H.R.M.: Lacks vitality; try again.
... .W.E.J.; No g00d.... J.C.C. You draw as if
you had boxing gloves 0n... .D.M.L.: Crashed....
A.R.S.: Another indelible pencil atrocity... .D.M.K.:
The steed reminds us of the wooden horse of Troy.
. ...0.E.8.; Mother looks like a deformed Oriental
doll.


ê


The Bulletin
Vol. 50. —No. 2560.
March 6, 1929.
LAYING A FEW FOUNDATION STONES.
“The aboriginal State has again been suggested. It is felt that the race should now have learned enough from Canberra, etc., to be able to govern itself.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
tti George Street, Sydney.
Victoria: lli-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 2iS Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London: 36 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 )s.; 6 months, lZs. 6d.;
5 months, Is.
To ANY ADDRESS Overseas: 12 months, £l 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: Ijoz. to 10m., lid. ;
each additionalJoz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., l\d.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: joz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGp LITERARY ARTICLES . . 2, 5
PLOT COMPETITION PRIZE-WINNERS . . 2
More Kendall Letters .. 2
THE VERSES OF ESSEX EVANS .. ..5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS 5
THE FRONT PAGE—By Leason .. .. 7
EDITORIALS g' ( 0
The Appeal to Bombs 8
RAILWAYS THAT LEAD TO RUIN .. . . 8
Influenza .. .. 8
HOW QUEENSLAND DOES IT 9
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 9
POLITICS (with caricatures) .. .. ..10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. .. 1J | 12
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. .. .. 14
POVERTY POINT . . If,
A CARTOON BY NORMAN LINDSAY 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..17
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS . . . . 18, 20
CITY MUTUAL LIFE 18
GOODYEAR TYRE 18
SQUATTING INVESTMENT CO 18
PELACO, LTD 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 23, 25
Free Service Department .. 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 29
PRIZES FOR FARMERS 28
SMOKE-OH 32
“A Rogue in Amber” 34, 55
PEN AND PICTURE 37
NEW MOVIES AND TALKIES .. ..37
SPORTING (Illustrated) 39, 41, 42
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 44
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 46
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 49
Two Complete Stories
“NOT TOO CLEVER,” by Margaret Fane
and Hilary Lofting .. .. .. 51, 53
“THE BROKEN IKONS,” by S. Stedman 57, 58
VERSE .53, 58
ffuffyulleii/ii
WEDNESDAY, MARCH G, 1929.
THE APPEAL TO BOMBS.
The mystery surrounding the bombing out-
rages that startled Melbourne and Aus-
tralia during the wharf strike and nearly
precipitated a diplomatic difficulty has
been cleared up, in regard to one case, at
least, by the conviction of three men,
O’Connell, Delaney and Alexander
Mclver, for placing bombs in the Greek
Club’s rooms and causing a terrible explo-
sion.
The evidence against the three men—
two others were acquitted—was circum-
stantial but strong. One witness swore that
he had seen the three enter the club just
before it was bombed; another, that O’Con-
nell had carried a heavy bag upstairs and
rushed down again, accompanied by
Delaney, the explosion following in two or
three minutes. In a notebook found in the
possession of O’Connell was a sketch of a
bomb. In a car driven by Delaney a bomb
was discovered by the police.
O’Connell, who described himself as a
dealer, said he was president of the A.L.P.
social club. Six members of the club, in-
cluding two bookmakers’ clerks, endeavored
to establish an alibi on his behalf. For
Alexander Mclver, who said he was a
laborer, two stevedores and a wharf-laborer
gave alibi evidence. O’Connell and
Mclver have criminal records; Mclver has
served a sentence of 10 years. Delaney
also had an alibi, provided by his sweet-
heart. The jury disbelieved all this evi-
dence, and Irvine, C.J., imposed the maxi-
mum penalty of 15 years’ imprisonment
with hard labor.
Labor and union leaders have expressed
the horror that all decent men feel
at the appeal to the bomb, and in this they
speak for the general body of trade-union-
ists. But when they try to show that the
bombing had no connection with the water-
siders’ strike they impose too great a strain
on the public’s credulity. The only pos-
sible motive for the fiendish crime just
sheeted home was the intimidation of men
who accepted • work on the wharves in de-
fiance of the wharf-laborers’ organisation,
which was fighting against what its executive
described as the “pernicious and vicious
Beeby award,” and of those who employed
them. The Greek Club explosion was part of
an attempt to create a reign of terror. Hun-
dreds of lives were endangered, and thou-
sands of people—the relatives of shipping
agents and others—lived for months in
shuddering dread. The outrages stopped as
soon as arrests were made. They recom-
menced, a few days ago, immediately the
point was raised at the trial that they had
stopped.
Methods of barbarism have not been in-
troduced into the industrial affairs of Aus-
tralia by accident. Australia became fami-
liar during the war with the preaching and
practice of the I.W.W. Melbourne itself
has, since the war, been the scene of a
Trades Union Congress that adopted the
I.W.W. preamble, which sets forth that a
class war exists, and that the workers have
the right to “take and hold the means of
production by revolutionary industrial and
political action.” Hatred of employers and
non-unionists, and of unionists who object
to being hounded into lawless and hopeless
strikes, is preached as a duty. Even
now we see Labor politicians, as well
as union officials, counselling unionists to
defy the Arbitration Court and ignore the
Crimes Act. Timber workers are violently
assaulted because they have dared to take
employment when another strike against
the Commonwealth Arbitration Court,
accompanied by the usual accusations of
bias against the Judge, is in progress. No
Labor leader in or out of Parliament has
lifted a finger or raised a voice against this
organised violence. Between hitting a man
on the head with a bottle and blowing up
his house with a bomb there may be a
difference, but it is difference of degree and
not of principle. To counsel law-breaking
and to condone the exercise of violence of
DEAD-ENDS IN N.S.W.
This map shows the railways which added £1,609,267 to the N.S.W. taxes last year.
The dead-end branch lines caused most of the loss; one of these little protuberances
lost £109,968 in 12 months. More dead-ends are under construction.
any kind in resistance to the law is to aid
and abet every sort of illegal violence.
Bad leadership can rtr»n the best of causes.
If Labor-unionism can’t get better leader-
ship than has been exhibited in the strike
against the Beeby award, the strike against
the Lukin award and the related proceed-
ings of the Labor rabble in the Common-
wealth Parliament, its decline will be' swift
and its fall inevitable.
RAILWAYS THAT LEAD TO RUIN.
The accompanying map shows the railways
of New South Wales in all the nude but
fragmentary beauty of their cockspurs and
dead-ends. They would be even more im-
pressive if space had permitted the doing
of full justice to the tangle in Sydney and
suburbs. The complication began with
little visible purpose and evidently just
grew, like the cactus. Hardly one of the
scraps pays working expenses and interest,
and most of them don’t pay working ex-
penses alone. In some cases the losses
run to thousands of pounds per mile per
annum. The very stumpy ones, which are
about a sixpenny fare from end to end, are
expensive and wasteful in a special way,
there being quite insufficient work to keep
“Little Mary,” the locomotive, employed
and out of mischief.
The official career of a new bit of line
begins with a solemn inquiry, and the report
might read as follows, but doesn’t:—
“The Public Works Committee, consisting
of five paid amateurs and a stipendiary, has
recommended the construction of a railway
from Whiradoo to Koojeerup. The existing
line stops at nothing in particular, and the
extended one will do the same. The distance
is some miles, and the cost is estimated at
more than anyone would reasonably expect,
though it may exceed that figure indefinitely.
The revenue is estimated at blank, and
the working expenses at blanky, while
the interest on loan capital is expected
to be blankety, leaving a loss of £41,111
per annum. The object is to promote
settlement, but, judging by experience, both
Whiradoo and Koojeerup may be much
the same size 25 years hence as they are
now, though Sydney will doubtless be much
larger. Another result will be to open up
land for agricultural settlement. Yet it must
be admitted that this process has been gone
through dozens of times before, and the
area under crop in N. S. W ales At as
smaller in 1927 than in 1917 or 1923 or
19°4 or 1925 —in most cases the port and the
city may be too far off. In addition, a
number of men will be supplied with work,
and will acquire a vested interest in further
work of the sort when this job is finished.
It is an outstanding fact that one of the
lines which the Public Works Committee
recommended in recent times (Grafton to
Ivillarney) was estimated to lose £213,000
per annum.
The N.S.W. Government has allotted
£BOO,OOO a year out of taxes to make the
railway deficit look better, it being appa-
rently accepted as a permanent evil. But
as the 1927-28 deficit was £1,609,267, or
£264 for every mile of N.S.W. track, this
is only play-acting and pretence. Last year
the system was called upon to earn £5 2s. sd.
per cent, on the loan capital of lines which
cost £20,110 per mile. Twenty years ago
the interest rate was about £3 10s. per'cent.,
and the loan capital on which this £3 10s.
had to be paid was only £12,946 per mile.
A prominent cause of this amazing increase
in the paper value and very real liabilities
of the railway “asset” as it grows older is
the persistent building of bankrupt little
dead-enders at thrice the reasonable cost.
Another feature is that in the accounts for
January, 1929, appeared items of loan capital
spent on bits of rail which were finished
and opened for traffic as far back as 1921,
and have been on the insolvent list ever
since.
It is apparently a dogma of Australian
politicians that no State is “progressive”
unless it is perpetually building new steel
highways, with money raised at an absurd
price, and with costly day labor suited to
“the Australian standard of living.” Prefer-
ence is always given to such works as will
make no new port available and create no
new city, but lead nowhere in particular,
and also lead to nothing. There are still
scraps which would be worth constructing,
for they would furnish an outlet to some
real place, and that might improve the situ-
ation; and if N.S.W. was sawn in three so
that it might grow two new State capitals
as centres of population the result should
be beneficial. But the Sydney Government
still pokes around in the old way, and chases
the disastrous dead-end as if it was a new
goldfield. Ministers should give this sort
of railway construction out of loan money
a rest, and consider the closure of some of
the worst properties.
The last Income Tax Act, with its prying
ways and petty catchfarthing dodges, made
Bavin and Stevens two of the most dis-
liked men in N. S. Wales. If foolish dead-
end railway tricks and other devices call
for more measures of the sort, dislike may
become positive loathing.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Influenza.
The Federal Minister for Health was in line
with official tradition in Australia when, re-
plying to questions in the House of Reps.,
he said: —
“There is no evidence whatever that there
is any influenza epidemic anywhere in the
world!”
The same attitude was taken up in all the
States at a time when influenza was ravag-
ing the troops in Flanders. The 1918 epi-
demic, which reached Australia by way of
Europe and Asia, killed 6.000,000 Indians,
150,000 Britishers and 12,000 Australians.
The present outbreak has its headquarters
in America, which is considerably nearer
than the U.K. Last month _ the U.S.A.
(Federal) health authorities disclosed that
in one week 195,883 sufferers had been ad-
mitted to the public hospitals of 67 cities,
and 1316 deaths had occurred. The posi-
tion was not so bad in Britain when the
Minister said, in effect, that it wasn’t bad
anywhere. But, on the authority of the
Weekly Dispatch, “many London business
houses have depleted staffs owing to the
ravages of the complaint”; the Health
Ministry “has sanctioned the provision by
local authorities of medical assistance, in-
cluding the nursing and dispensing ol
doctors’ prescriptions”; and “Glasgow is m
the grip of influenza.” Now Leeds reports
625 deaths in one week—“the blackest week
in the city’s history” according to the Leeds
Health Officer. So that, in the natural
course of events, the Commonwealth may
expect, during the coming winter or earlier,
to be shot with both barrels.
Means of prevention are well known to
the doctors, but they are only effective when
they are also known to and practised by the
people. In the circumstances a policy of
cheery optimism is fatuous; The best ser-
vice that Federal and State Governments
can do, both to humanity and to commerce
and industry, is to warn the nation that the
threatened danger is serious, and broadcast
the measures that individuals must take to
escape infection.
4
An Australian on Australia.
The comments of George Herbert Wilkins
on the dearth of culture out back and the
tendency of settlers to get out of the bush
and into the cities at the first opportunity
should not be dismissed with the scorn
reserved for most overseas strictures of the
sort. Wilkins is no cheap Cockney critic
like the writer of “Isles of Illusion.” He
is a man with honorable achievements to his
credit—a good war record, high literary and
scientific attainments, and a reputation for
resolute courage in the Arctic and Ant-
arctic. He has world-standards of com-
parison. And he is an Australian. When
Such a man indicates weaknesses in our social
system there is at least good reason to
assume that they may be there.
In point of fact there is no denying
the charge that many settlers desert the
bush and live in a coastal city as soon as
they can afford to; and Wilkins might
well have included a large proportion of
the big squatting families. The number
of outbackers who treat the bush very much
as a planter treats Assam or Malaya—as a
place to get rich in and get out of—is
increasing, and it is a national disaster in its
way. The educational requirements of the
modern child supply one of the chief
reasons.
In the whole of London there are only
two institutions like the great public schools
with which Sydney, Melbourne and the
other State capitals are so well supplied.
Outside Armidale (N.S.W.) and Geelong
(Vic.) there are no big country schools of
their sort for boys in Australia. On the
other hand, you will find scores of schools of
a similar standing in the English and Scotch
counties, and the same applies to girls’
schools. One effect of centralising higher
education in this way is that many Aus-
tralian boys are sent to school in England,
their parents arguing that the heart of a
great city is a bad training place for the
average boy or girl., Another is that the
backblocks are deprived of cultural in-
fluences which have benefited the British
counties for centuries.
The intellectual stimulus which has been
given to the countryside round such widely-
separated schools as Eton, Rugby and
Winchester (to make no mention of the
great universities outside the metropolis)
is immense, and it is a stimulus for which
out-back Australia is pining. It is axio-
matic in other countries and particularly in
Britain that families will not wed them-
selves permanently to the soil of districts
which are without great churches, uni-
versities or schools. There is no reason to
believe that Australians differ in this
respect from the parent stock.
4
The North-South Railway.
Dear Bulletin, —Mr. W. W. Killen,
M.H.R., betrays (B. 20/2/’29) a singular
conception of the legal interpretation of
the agreement between South Australia and
the Commonwealth when he asserts that
“there is no agreement to build the [North-
South] line at present—it could be post-
poned for 50 years or more without break-
ing any agreement.” In other words, the
agreement need never be carried outl At
the same time, he denies that he ever
heard of anyone desiring to violate the
document!
Mr. Killen proceeds that “if there is an
implied agreement... .it would be far better
for the Commonwealth Government to
approach the Government of South Aus-
tralia and endeavor to buy itself out of
the agreement.” If the Commonwealth
dared to take his proposal seriously, it
would find that South Australia could not
be “bought.”
Apart from the ethics of the issue, Mr.
Killen is lacking in vision. Because he has
motored through the Territory, seeing in
the aggregate about 5000 square miles of
country (allowing him a visual range of
2i miles on either side of the track)—an
area that is a mere speck in the 523.000
square miles that comprise the Northern
Territory—he sets himself up as an autho-
rity on its productive capacity. Moreover,
did he not pass through in a hurry during
one of the driest spells old hands have ever
experienced in Territoria? His cramped
ideas of the Territory’s potentialities, fortu-
nately Tor Australia, are not shared by those


THE GREATER NEED.
“The Premier declared the 'Be Kind to Animals Week’ open.
But it’s a “Be Kind to Industry Week” that this country needs most.
who know the Commonwealth’s heritage
properly by virtue of years spent there.
South Australia would not deny the
Barkly lands a developmental line. But it
insists that the legal obligation to complete
the North-South railway must be discharged
first. As The Bulletin has repeatedly
pointed out, the true route of the North-
South line is direct through the heart of
the Territory. The proposed diversion from
the present terminus of the northern section
across the Barkly Tableland into Queens-
land and on to Bourke (N.S.W.) is the
shortest route out of the Territory. And if
the Commonwealth can waste over
£10,000,000 on the gilded skeleton of an
unnecessary city, surely it is altogether
illogical to plead poverty when a national
undertaking, essential for the opening up
and settlement of those vast empty spaces
that are now a menace to our security, is
—or should be—under consideration.—Yours
etc., F. S. Alford.
♦
The Mortgaged Post Office.
The conviction that it is the right thing to
charge as little as possible to revenue and as
much as possible to loans still shines out in
the post, telegraph and telephone expendi-
ture. The following figures are of a dis-
jointed sort, for the war burst up the con-
tinuity of comparisons in this line as in
many others, but all the same they are in-
structive :
Postal Construction Expenditure.
Out of Out
To June, Revenue. of Loans.
1912.. ..£1,443,115 Nil
1913.. .. 1,088,022 Nil
1914.. .. 1,121,632 £301,005
War intervened.
1921.. .. 940,917 22,555
1922.. .. 940,114 802,791
The Bruce-Page Ministry arrived.
1923.. .. 221,709 2,198,398
1924.. .. 248,876 3,903,021
1925.. .. Nil 4,536,992
1926.. .. Nil 5,538,633
1927.. .. Nil 3,945,325
1928.. .. Nil 3,704,927
There is a sinking fund, of course, but
a sinking or repayment fund in paper money
doesn’t work, save in the heated imagina-
tion, against an external debt payable
(interest and repayment fund) in gold. The
position would have been, better if the
Government had stuck to and improved
on the methods of 1912, even if progress
was less showy, and less suggestive of old
land-bank days. It made “surpluses,” but
they did no particular good. The year to
June, 1928, was the worst borrowing year
to date, the increase of State and Federal
liabilities abroad being about £54,000,000;
and the present year looks as if it might be
worse. Also last year’s shortage was bad
and. this year’s also looks as if it might be
worse.
0
Broadcasting Under the Bruce-Pages.
Ever since the Commonwealth Government
laid its hand on broadcasting, the quality
of the entertainment provided has been go-
ing down. When the companies were operat-
ing without meddlesome interference, fear
of competition worked to keep the standard
up. Now that they merely lease the facili-
ties for getting on the air they have only
departmental heads to please, and in matters
of art departmental heads are not con-
noisseurs. The general public is more
critical; and the radio fancier who is satis-
fied with what he is getting for his 245.
per annum is as hard to find as a clean
pavement.
That someone in authority has an uneasy
feeling that Government control has failed
is suggested by the proposal to build C-class
stations and lease them to Private Enter-
prise on the American plan. In U.S.A. the
Government does not directly intrude upon
the ether. It refrains from erecting stations
or charging listening fees. The majority of
stations, good, bad and indifferent, are
privately owned and managed. They get
no revenue from their audiences; never-
theless, some of them have been able to
develop radio broadcasting to a pi.Ji of
excellence unimaginable in Australia.
These U.S. stations sell time to business
firms, just as a newspaper sells space;
and to get the ear of the multitude the
business firms must provide attractive pro-
grammes. First-class symphony orchestras
and virtuosi of international renown are
thus put upon the air almost as frequently
as the Dudd comedians and Madame
WooIIjYVOICE, the once-famous prima donna,
are in Australia. The advertising portion
of the programme is confined to a brief
mention of the firm responsible for the
entertainment.
«
How Queensland Does It.
“Copabella”: Leaving abstract morality out
of the argument, the nationalisation of hos-
pitals in Queensland, in conjunction with
the nationalisation of gambling through the
Golden Gasket lottery, is working well.
Certainly it is worthy of study by the
N.S.W. Government in its search for a solu-
tion of its own hospitals problem.
Queensland is divided into hospital dis-
tricts each of which stands on its own bottom,
with the Treasury as backer. Revenue is
derived from endowments, voluntary sub-
scriptions, payments by patients, a local-
authority precept and State help drawn
from Golden Casket profits. When the first
three sources of income are insufficient to
meet expenses, the local authority has to
provide 40 p.c. of the deficit, the State pro-
viding the rest. The local levy is made on
the unimproved value of land. Hospital
attention is the right of all persons, but
those able to pay are expected to do so.
In practice the local authority and the
lottery carry most of the burden. In some
districts there is a system of workers’ weekly
levies/ but when people found they were
liable to be taxed for the upkeep of hos-
pitals the wells of charity dried. Admini-
stration is by a board created every three
years from elected representatives of local
authorities, an elected representative of
voluntary subscribers, and nominees of the
Home Office. If there are no voluntary sub-
scribers the Home Office nominates another
boardsman. The effect has been to give
the Government balance of control; it
nominates its own political supporters.
Hospital districts may retain the volun-
tary system wholly if they choose, but most
of them do not choose, and soon none will
do so. Nationalisation was forced on the
State, so the Government says, by the par-
lous condition into which the institutions
had fallen under the voluntary system.
That, of course, is debatable, but the grow-
ing efficiency of the hospitals is not. Quite
small cities have truly magnificent institu-
tions; every city of importance and most
sizeable towns have a maternity ward and
a baby clinic; nurses are paid union rates
and enjoy union conditions, and “hospital
days” and similar organised cadging are no
more.
Opposition to the system comes from
church people, who execrate the Government
lottery as a pandering to the gambling spirit
and an attack on the moral fibre of the com-
munity; and from landowners, who object to
the impost on land values. The landowners
think the wage-earners, who use the hos-
pitals most, should pay a direct contribution,
and that the general tax should be on in-
comes, not acres. It is doubtful, however,
whether any Government would do away
with the Golden Casket.
♦
Making the Punishment Fit the
Criminal.
For centuries society dealt with malefactors
on the principle that no punishment was
too great for the least of them. Murderers
and thieves hung side by side. Then came
a wave of humanitarianism, some of it
sickly and illogical. Now we are re-adjust-
ing our views on the subject of crime and
how to discourage it.
The modern spirit is practical, scornful of
catchwords, however venerable, and eager
for results. In voting to amend the Crimes
Act so as to permit flogging for razor-
slashing, the N. S. Wales Assembly has
furnished an example. Flogging, as has been
proved over and over again, deters. It
wiped out London’s worst epidemic of
garrotting inside a year. The mere threat
of its revival has had a pronounced effect on
the Sydney razor-slashing gentry, as the
police records show. And there are other
directions in which the punishment may be
made to fit the criminal.
The blackmailer, for instance, is almost
always an old hand who knows the differ-
ence between penal servitude and hard labor.
All who have been in gaol dread hard labor,
and where it is imposed freely for black-
mail that crime soon diminishes to vanish-
ing -mint. Similarly, hit-and-run motorists,
joy-riders and drunken drivers are indiffer-
ent to fines, as a rule, but they are terrified
of imprisonment. Most of them are
“respectable,” and gaol may be a worse
disaster in their eyes than a flogging is in
the eyes of a gangster.
The one catch in legislation which puts
the onus on a Judge of deciding whether or
not the offender shall be given the limit
penalty is that Judges differ so in tempera-
ment and outlook. Garrotting was stopped
in England because Hawkins happened to
be on the Bench; he had contemporaries
who would never have ordered men to be
flogged. If the N.S.W. Crimes Amend-
ment Bill becomes law all will depend on
the State Judges. If they use their powers,
gang warfare will automatically go out of
fashion, just as the habit of driving motor-
cars to the public danger would go out of
fashion if the penalty was always gaol.
But there must be consistency.
Rail or Hoad?
“Fitzwilliam” : Last month I booked a berth
from a northern town for Sydney—a week
in advance. When the train arrived, the
onfy sleeper was an old derelict, and I had
been allotted an upper berth. I found out
later that more discreet passengers had got
“lowers” by not booking in advance, but
waiting until the train arrived, and then
“interviewing” the conductor. It worked all
right. The temperature was 114° in the train
when we left, and didn’t get much lower all
night. As there was no ventilation whatever
in the upper regions, no fans, and a gas jet
burning within three feet of the sleeper’s
head, the position was not a desirable one.
There was no dining-car on the train. We
had lunch at noon, before joining the train.
The official refreshment-room was reached
at 4.30, but somehow a hot dinner is not
attractive at that hour on a blazing day, so
most of us avoided it. We got beer, though
it was lukewarm and sticky.
The next refreshment-room occurred at
9 p.m. There was no set dinner here, but
a mad rush to a crowded counter for tea
and coffee and greasy sandwiches. No ice,
but more beer.
The train was an hour and a half late at
Hornsby, where I changed into an electric.
A tram left just as I got to the top of my.
stairs. I caught it with a run and a jump.
Less active passengers waited and caught a
’bus. They scored heavily. Not only that
’bus but another which left minutes
later overtook our tram before we got
half-way. I saw still another ’bus pull
up just as we arrived. It drew in close to
the pavement and the conductor assisted
passengers to alight and handed down their
suit cases. Our tramguard simply remarked,
“Hurry along, please,” and left us to lift
out our own baggage.
Being in the game now, so to speak, I de-
cided to catch another tram —for the Spit.
I did so. I had to walk across the Spit
bridge; and when within 20 yards of the
tram on the other side, it moved off—
empty. I and other passengers waited
awhile—and presently caught a ’bus.
On another trip I declined a berth, think-
ing that conditions could be no worse sitting
up. I was wrong. I got into a compart-
ment with one other passenger, and at the
last moment three young gentlemen bundled
in, each carrying four bottles of beer ex-
teriorly, and an unknown quantity inside.
I have travelled a bit, but not even with
our armies in Flanders have I heard any-
thing like the stream of dreary profanity
and filth that these gentlemen indulged in.
At the first stop, a couple of hours later, my
fellow-passenger (the sober one) reported
the unpleasantness to the guard. Instead of
bundling the offenders out, as he has power
to do, he took their names and addresses
and retired. From the fragments of intelli-
gible conversation which emerged from the
surrounding filth, I gathered that the par-
ticulars supplied to the guard were, to say
the least of it, not pedantically correct. At
the next stop I left them.
I came home with a party by car. De-
spite bad roads, our actual running time was
much the same as the train’s; we had de-
cent meals at reasonable hours—when we
wanted them, in fact—and the cost per head
worked out at less than half the train fare.


m-.:
Ml- ialanced
flloCfi Spixit
ë
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Federal executive of the A.L.P. has
made another feeble attempt to settle the
N.S.W. Labor fac-
tion fight. Presi-
de n t Kenneally,
who is a West-
ralian M.L.A., and
secretary McNa-
mara, the Vic.
M.L.C., called on
the State A.L.P.
executive in Syd-
ney and implored
that body to “bring
peace into “the
movement” by re-
admitting the ex-
pe 11 e d A.W.IT.
bosses. The reply
was, in effect, that
the Federal execu-
tive had a cheek to
bring up that sub-
ject again, and
after a few re-
marks about “liars”
and “damnable tac-
tics” the State ex-
ecutive went on to
the next business.
Which shows that
the Federal execu-
D.L. McNamara.
tive has as little control over the political
wing of “the movement” as the Council of
Trades Unions has over the industrial wing.
More than 18 months ago Federal Attor-
ney-General Latham asked the Aus. Council
of Trades Unions if it would like to have
all penalties for strikes and lockouts abol-
ished, but frequent attempts to evoke a reply
have failed; Latham can’t even get an
acknowledgment. He might vary the form
of his query and ask if the council would
approve of the abolition of penalties for all
breaches of Federal awards, or what it would
say if they were just abolished, even if it
didn’t approve. Then the Federal Arbitra-
tion Court would be a moral force only, till
it got tired of being that, and oozed away
into private life.
When the N.S.W. Nationalists, putting
up in place of the deceased Bruntnell a
man who was new to politics and the dis-
trict, won the Parramatta seat by a majority
of 841, Lang said it was an unmistakable
triumph for Labor, and if the Government held
a general election it wouldn’t win 20 seats.
The cry for John Thomas, the estate-agent,
had become deafening, and sounded in his
drooping cars like Niagara.
There is humor in the spectacle of W. M.
Hughes going into action as a champion of
independence in politics. As a Laborite he
strongly upheld the Caucus system, and at
the first opportunity wished it on to Nation-
alism. No Australian P.M. was ever so com-
pletely the staff officer, and there are no in-
dications that he would be less autocratic
if the chance again offered. Love of liberty,
hatred of the machine —these are inspiring
political slogans. But in the mouth of an
authoritarian like “Billy” they merely sound
comic.
The S. Aus. Govern-
ment Produce Department,
which used to be quoted
on thousands of Labor
platforms as a shining
example of State socialism,
has fallen on evil days.
Started to cater for the
export trade in perishable
produce, particularly
frozen lambs, it did well
enough when the freezers
under its control treated
200,000 lambs in a year,
but supplies have gradu-
ally fallen off, and there
has been a loss of just on
£90,000 in five years. The
Public Works Committee,
of which Peter Rcidy is
chairman, is wrestling
with the problem of
whether the show should
be carried on at an esti-
mated loss of £2O,(XX)
p.a., or closed at an
annual loss of £lo,ooo—
is admitted that there
is no sale for the plant.
Peter Reidy,
M.P.
In an oration which spread over an hour
and a half the Prime Minister explained
that a Royal Commission would be appointed
to inquire into the coal industry, or that
corner of it where the row never ceases.
At the ordinary walking pace of a Royal
Commission, it should take a year to pro-
duce a report, and unless something is
done, or just happens, in the interval some-
thing will be pretty dead before that
time. The raw material of the problem is
why the richest coalfield in Australia, an)
one with special facilities for doing an
export trade, should be in such desperate
need of a big bonus to keep it alive.
The Labor party in S. Aus. demands that
Parliament shall be called together to find
work for the unemployed. The Premier’s
reply is that the loan estimates! are being-
struggled with, and that the Legislature will
probably meet early. It did so last year
because the same nasty old wolf had its
eye at the keyhole. In 1926-27 S. Aus.
spent £20,776,965, and of this £10,784,897
came out of revenue, £8,942,018 came out
of formal loans, and £1,050,050 was deficit
or informal loans. When a State meets
only 52 per cent, of its expenditure out
of its own money and 48 per cent, out of
lOU money, the situation is pretty bad. The
Federal Commission which is looking into
the case should make haste.
Westralia is not likely to be able to claim
at the end of 1928-29, as it did at the end
of 1927-28, that it possesses the only Aus-
tralian railway system which showed a sur-
plus over working expenses and interest. A
half-year’s loss of £174,172 has turned up.
The Labor Government blames the waterside
strike. Other people are suggesting that re-
duction of working hours has been carried
too far.
The throwing of children on the N.S.W.
Child Endowment fund through their
parents being involved in coal and timber
and other troubles will, it is expected, force
the Premier-Treasurer to resume collecting
from employers again, a matter which has
been suspended for a while. This will add a
little to the mass of unemployment, and the
unions’ return of the workless for the last
quarter of 1928, before the coal and timber
brew began to boil, was, 119 per 1000.
The closure of 20 coalmines in the New-
castle district and the discharge of 12,000
miners was the climax of a strange pig-
headed tragedy. Between and 1921
the average price of coal increased about
130 per cent, mainly, as the State Statis-
tician has observed with some regularity,
“in consequence of awards of tribunals
appointed by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment during the war period.” Strikes went up
along with other things; in the six maximum
wage years there were 4325 strikes. But
though the wiseacres who Piddingtoned the
business could order some things to go up
they couldn’t compel customers, especially
outside ones, to stay up. It was suggested
that the miners might forego Is. and see if
three tons of work at ss. llfd. might not
pay better than two tons at 6s. llfd.,
especially if the owners and the Govern-
ment subscribed 4s. per ton among them to
make up a reduction of price which might
save ,the export trade. But the reply was
that the present arrangements must go on,
whether they could or not.
Ilertzog’s attempt to make the Native Re-
presentation Bill the outstanding issue of
the South African election is shrewd, for if
battle were joined on the trade treaty with
Germany his Government would probably
be beaten. Smuts’s native policy differs little
from that of his brother-Boer, but he has
been craftily saddled with the imputation of
desiring to hand over South Africa to the
Kaffirs.
The McPhersons (Vic.) obtained supply
to June 30, and so are safe for the inter-
vening period, but after Parliament re-
assembles in July there may be a dissolu-
tion at any time. The average life of a
Vic. Parliament is 2} years, and the pre-
sent Assembly will be 30 months old on
October 9. Something will depend upon
the Country Party and Country Prog,
conferences this month, but the present
House has exhausted its possibilities; it
has had Composite, Labor and Nationalist
Ministries. All parties are resigned to an
election not later than November, one reason
being that next year would then be clear for
the State-wide poll on pubs or no pubs, which
must be held in 1930.
With the melting of the snow the Revolu-
tion in China has resumed operations, Mar-
shal Chang-Chung-Chang, renowned for the
size of his harem, having launched a cam-
paign against the Nationalists in Shantung.
Local patriots accuse the Japanese of foment-
ing the discord, and possibly there is some
truth in the accusation - but Ah Sin doesn’t
always wait for outside instigation before
he starts slaughtering his neighbor. In
Szechuan, a remote province where Japanese
interests are small, nine generals have been
fighting each other for 10 years.
If forecasts of delegates can be depended
upon, there will be some plain speaking at
the Easter Labor corroboree in Melbourne
about Hogan’s leadership of the State Parlia-
mentary party. H'ogan met with a rebuff at
the last affair of the kind, but forced the
conference to come to heel by threatening to
resign the Premiership, which he then held.
It is nothing unusual for a Vic. politician to
be side-tracked by his party after holding the
Premiership; O’Loghlen, Gillies, Shiels, Pea-
cock, Bent, Murray, Bowser, Lawson and
Prendergast all suffered the experience. Ex-
Premiers J. A. MacPherson, Berry, Kerferd,
O’Loghlen, Shiels, Peacock, Murray, Bowser
and Prendergast were glad to accept office
under new leaders. And so may Hogan be.
Judge Edwards, now chairman of the
N.S.W. Electoral Commission, has notions
about cutting down
the cost of elections.
In 1927-28, which
was a State-elec-
tion year, the Elec-
toral Department
mopped up nearly
£79,000, and the
current year’s ex-
penditure is ex-
pected to reach
£50,000 owing to
the Prohibition
poll. The Judge
thinks there is an
excessive expendi-
ture on telegrams
giving progress re-
ports ; and so there
i s. Incidentally,
the arrangement
for joint rolls will
result in a consid-
erable saving;
moreover, people
won’t have to pay
postage every time
they notify a
Judge Edwards.
change of address —a charge hitherto exacted
by the State, though not by .the Common-
wealth.
The Court having decided that in the
depressed state of the timber industry a 48-
liour week would be a fair thing all round,
instead of about half the employees working
44 hours, the usual strike was ordered by
the mandarins of the union, with the usual
fury and vituperation, and on the usual
ground that obedience to awards is compul-
sory on the employers and optional on the
employees. Then the Court exercised a
hitherto unused power, and made a provi-
sional order for a secret ballot to find out
if the unionists struck willingly or were
bulldozed by the mandarins. In the inno-
cence of his heart ex-Minister Lazzarini
asked whether, in the event of there being a
pro-strike majority, the award would be
abolished, thus setting up the principle that
decisions of the Court were of no account
if a union vote could be scared up against
them. Being told that the ballot wasn’t
about the award at all, but was to ascertain
whether the union bosses had any semblance
of claim to speak for their subjects, he asked
bitterly what was the good of a ballot to
decide a thing like that.
The N.S.W. Main Roads Board, founded
in 1924, finds its resources in a share of
the motor-car tax, rates requisitioned from
councils, something extracted from the hun
gry State Treasury, donations from the
Federal Treasury and loans. At present it
is spending £1,268,500 on a road 101 miles
long (say, £12,560 per mile) from Hornsby,
outside Sydney, to Newcastle. So far the
two chief cities of the State have been con-
nected by an almost impassable track about
160 miles long. It is expected that the new
route will take much business from the rail-
way, as the two debts will lie parallel.
The Royal Commission on Child Endow-
ment has been hailed as the most expensive
of the many commis-
sions and boards ap-
pointed by the Bruce-
Pages. W hen it
handed in its report
last Thursday its till
for fees and expenses
amounted to £15.748,
of which T. S. O’llal-
lorau, the Adelaide
K.C., received £4311
(he was chairman)
and John Curtin, now
Labor M.11.R. for Fre-
mantle, £1490. This
beats the achieve-
ment of the Federal
Constitution Commis-
sion (£12,754) and
that of the Industrial
Commission to the
U.S.A. (£11.803) ; but
the Commission on
South Australia’s
Financial Position is
still in the race, and
John Curtin
the Coal Commission, late as it will start,
is expected to be a strong finisher.
Lacey, moved the adjournment
of the Reps, to demand that the Government
should get to work on the Port Augusta-Red
Hill railway. Two hours were available for
the debate, and if Lacey and his friends had
been more concise they might have secured
a division in the time; as it was, the sands
ran out while Norman Makin was still on his
legs. The Ministry said that the line, which
is estimated to cost £1,220,000, is desirable,
but loans funds have given out. The reply
was that the money should be found, even if
the skies fell, “to relieve the unprecedented
unemployment,” and somebody asked if the
Ministry “was prepared to allow men,
women and children to starve.” There was
logic of a sort behind this pathos, but un-
happily 69 miles of loan railway would do
little to help the situation.
When a Locomotive Engineers’ plaint came
before the Arbitration Court in Melbourne
a witness told Judge Drake-Brockman that
“the running of trains on holidays acted as
a punishment to employees, and the men
should be amply compensated.” It almost
suggested a parson wanting extra pay be-
cause he was expected to preach on Sunday,
which is certainly a holiday of some stand-
ing. The situation is that if all people who
have to work on holidays (railway men,
tramway men, ’bus men, policemen, gaol-
warders, doctors, nurses, ambulance men,
ferry men, milkmen, seamen, hotel and res-
taurant and light-refreshment employees, hos-
pital attendants, domestic helps and their
kith and kin) were “amply compensated” it
would be too expensive to have a holiday,
and if they all got the holiday it wouldn’t
be one for anybody except the criminal.
“Sol Malaprop”: Killen, M.H.R., takes up
the attitude that no time limit was fixed for
the construction of the North-South railway
when South Australia handed over the
N.T.; consequently, there is no breach
of contract if the work is postponed for 50
years, and none, I suppose, if it is post-
poned for 500 years. In a contract of mar-
riage there is generally the same absence of
a time limit; it is merely an agreement that
there shall be a marriage. But when there
is indefinite postponement, accompanied by
definite and uncontradicted reports that the
alleged bridegroom is going to marry another
girl first, combined with assurances from
members of Parliament and others that he is
quite free to do so, and ought to do so, sus-
picions of ungentlemanly conduct may arise.
“Calif”: Regarding America’s post-war ex-
penditure on service men (B. 20/2/’29),
Coolidge’s country called up 4,000,000 sol-
diers, putting 2,000,000 in France. Every man
was given an insurance policy; many are re-
ceiving pensions; numbers have taken univer-
sity and other educational courses at Govern-
ment expense; others again have been given
equipments of books for technical use. Fur-
ther, military hospitals are open to all service
men, whatever their illness, nor is the privi-
lege restricted to Americans. I know of
a case in which a Queensland Digger re-
ceived free treatment. I volunteered in a
Californian outfit, and have my insurance
and pension.
THE DANGER OF THE CAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Speaking in the N.S.W. Assembly, ex-Minister
MeKell argued that flogging brutalised a man and
made him an enemy of society for the rest of his
life.”
Bill Bloggs is a hard and implacable lot;
lie can bash with a bottle, and bomb, and
garrotte,
And of bloodthirsty strokes with a razor
he’s got
A large and impressive variety.
We must curb his deplorable habits and fetch
Him up short, now and then, with what’s
known as a “stretch.”
But cease urging the lash for the murderous
wretch—
It might make him a foe to society.
To pedestrians lone lie’s a menace that’s fell.
His views on the Law with a capital L
Might even occasion benignant MeKell,
One fancies, a touch of anxiety.
In lanes and dark alleys lie lurks for his
prey;
Still, he might mend his courses —you never
can say—
But one swish of the “cat” and for ever and
aye
His knife will be into society.
To jail him’s within our reformative scope—
In a cell one may always for penitence hope—
And to give him a swing at the end of a
rope
Might exhibit a certain propriety.
(Sus per coll., at the worst, no more blood
he would spill
Or sandbag liis quarry with sinister skill).
But a mere flagellation would brutalise Bill
Beyond ever forgiving society.
Bill Bloggs is a ruffianly robber and thug,
A gangster whose joy is a copper to plug,
But if he gets long enough spells in the jug
He may turn to the pathways of piety.
To his fellows he’s merely a plague and a
curse,
But from stripes on the hide he’s intensely
averse,
And a flogging might leave him with even a
worse
(If it’s possible) edge on society.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


SOCIETY
"and with
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Sol M.”: A mystery of the times is the
tragedy of the unmarried married couple.
Sometimes the man who is keeping house
with the other man’s wife beats the lady, and
sometimes the lady drinks, but in many cases
they are reported to be quiet and happy and
outwardly respectable. Then one night when
there is no visible cloud on the horizon the
male partner cuts the female’s head partly
off, and she has just time to say that she can’t
imagine why he did it before she passes
hence. Search reveals him moribund in the
back yard or the ash-tin, and telling the same
tale. If it is an epidemic it is a poor sort.
* * * *
“X.D.”: In endeavoring to establish an
alibi on behalf of one of the accused in the
Greek Club bombing case in Melbourne, a
witness stated that the person in question
accompanied him to the Palace Theatre on
the night of the outrage, left the theatre
during the first two intervals, but was with
him for the third. The prosecuting lawyer
after assimilating the statement asked how
many acts there were. “Three,” was the
SORRY THEY COULDN’T OBLIGE.
“I suppose I can sit here tell I starve!”
“Sorry. No, sir—we close at eleven o’clock!”
answer. “If there were three acts how were
there three intervals?” pursued the counsel
for the Crown. The witness made no reply.
•jf * # *
“Ex-Steward” : I have grave doubts about
the story of the ship’s steward who punished
a parsimonious passenger by falling over
board with his luggage. A steward rarely
gets his tip until he has finished handling
the property of his mark, and he would be
foolish not to see the job to the bitter end.
After that, there are other ways of getting
even. I remember an apparently affluent
citizen who climbed aboard the steamer
from Melbourne to Townsville, sought out
a colleague of mine and stipulated for the
maximum of attention. “Book after me well,”
he said, “and it’ll be worth a fiver to you.”
The steward faithfully carried out his part,
but at Townsville the other gave him uothing
except “I’ll see you ’nother time, Stewie.”
“You’ll see yourself ’nother time,” said the
defrauded one grimly. Two months later
the defaulter’s w T ife received a snap of her
husband with his arm round the waist of a
lady passenger. There was nothing to in-
dicate the sender except that the envelope
bore the house flag of a well-known line of
coastal steamers.
“L.C.”: It was at Launceston Museum,
and the two elderly ladies at my elbow were
deep in admiration of a case of old
china, beautiful relics from the cupboards
of some of the Speck’s early settlers.
“Good gracious,” said one, “just look at
that soup-tureen! Exactly the sort of
thing you’d expect in some of those old
families.” My curiosity aroused, I stole
a look at the case after they had gone, and
read on the label of the exhibit that had
just been under discussion “Footbath, from
old Government House. Sponge bowl and
soap-disli inside.” The alleged "tureen ’ was
two feet from handle to handle, about 18
inches wide, and quite 15 inches deep.
* * * *
“Vulagi”: Some of the boys who helped
to win the war started from well behind
scratch. Our local Defence Force in the
Islands consisted mostly of a rifle club,
all keen shots but knowing nothing of the
parade-ground. August, 1914, found them
digging in round the wireless station, the
club captain, by trade a shoemaker, being
in charge. One day a harassed constabulary
officer who was trying to drill some of the
rudiments of things military into them issued
a warning that next morning the local inspec-
tor-general was coming out, and suggested
that the men come to attention with a click,
etc., when he appeared. I met the inspection
party on its return, and noticed that the
instructor’s brow was furrowed. “That
damned cobbler,” he wailed. “As soon as the
chief appeared he dropped his blasted shovel,
walked up with his hand outstretched and
said, ‘Good morning, Mr. McWilliams; ’ow
are ya?’ ”
* * * *
“Billy See”: W.A. was about the last of
the colonies to regard the hangman as a
perfectly respectable civil servant; well into
the ’nineties the local press would give his
full name in reports of an execution and
generally add a tribute to his professional
qualifications. “Mark Annett carried out the
execution without a hitch” is a line that
still sticks in my memory. Mark’s best per-
formance was in April, 1892, when he turned
off four Chinamen in Fremantle gaol. Is
there any other record in Australia of four
Chinamen being hanged on the one morning?
* * • * *
“Bumpkin”: A fetching sight for a sea-
man’s eyes was the H.M.A.S. Albatross
taking aboard her brood of seaplanes in
Corio Bay, Geelong. The Australian-built
vessel is not a true aircraft-carrier, since
her swarm cannot alight on her decks, but
she picked six Seagull amphibians out of the
water by means of her immense cranes with
the deftness of a cormorant picking up fish.
From the moment it alighted alongside until
it vanished under the patent roller hatches
for’ard, the average time for each machine
was five minutes.
* # * *
“Rob Roy”: The old German carpenter
who found the word “chisel” such an easy
one to pronounce (B. 6/2/’29j reminds me
of a big Swede who worked where I once
earned the rent. “Von I comes to this coun-
try,” lie told me, “I used to say wope; now
I can say yope as plain as anyone.”
* * * *
“Exdig”: There have been many refer-
ences in the cables to the. appearance of
wolves in thickly-populated European coun-
tries ; some weTe actually located in a wood
within 16 miles of Paris. In the bitter
winter of 1916-17 a Digger in Picardy shot
a couple of wolves which had approached
the reserve trench in which he was doing
his bit. He reported having wiped out “a
couple of savage dogs,” but there was no diffi-
culty in identifying the animals.
* * * *
“Bullsbrook”: Westralia celebrates the
centenary of her existence this year;
Albany, the State’s second seaport, rather
anomalously kept her 100th birthday in 1926.
The fact has led to some testy arguments,
the Perth controversialists objecting to one
lone township assuming precedence over the
State as a whole. By way of belittling
Albany’s claim, it is contended that the place
was merely a convict settlement, projected
and run from Sydney, and abandoned as soon
as the western side of the continent was defi-
nitely pegged out by Great Britain. Nicholas
Lockyer, however, son of the Major Edmund
Lockyer who first hoisted the British flag
at King George’s Sound—and is still
described in books of reference as “Founder
and First Commandant of Western Aus-
tralia” —butts into the argument from Mel-
bourne with some convincing evidence that
Governor Darling regarded Albany as no
more a penal establishment than Western-
port or Melville Island, although the expedi-
tion sent there consisted of prisoners of the
Crown as well as troops. Strictly, speaking,
therefore, Albany is an older settlement than
Perth. It might be added that the Abrolhos
Islands were the site of European occupa-
tion, although only temporary and enforced,
two centuries before either.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Although it is generally con-
ceded that Australia is a country of vast
distances the fact doesn’t seem to. have
dawned on the B.M.A. That tight little
union still leaves it open to its members
to charge the maximum transportation fee
of 10s. a mile one way, in addition to the
ordinary fees. Of course, few country medi-
coes take advantage of the permission—if
they did I know of one woman in the Mallec
whose baby would have cost her husband an
additional £250 to bring into the vvorid.
The usual thing is ss. a mile and a lump
sum if the illness is a prolonged one. Re-
cently, however, a doctor died within
a few weeks of his patient, and the physi-
cian’s executors made the glad discovery
that in attending this particular case he had
travelled some 400 miles. So they clapped
another £2OO on to the bill sued the
dead woman’s executors for it. Sonah said
that if doctors were allowed to do that sort
of thing they would depopulate the country,
and cut the total account down by a mere
£3OO.
THEIR ONLY DIFFERENCE.
MRS. NAGGS: “I’m satisfied now I made a mistake in ever marrying you.”
MR. NAGGS: “M’yes, I made a mistake, too, but I’m hanged if I'm satisfied."
“Merris”: Blank was having a quick one
in his favorite bar a few minutes after six
when two John Hops entered. “You’re Bui
Bandicoot, Boom 4,” whispered the landlord.
So Blank said he was Bill Bandicoot, Room
4, and the constables asked him to step up to
his room. “Those your clothes?” he was
asked. Blank said they were. He also
opined that a battered suitcase on the top
of the wardrobe bore his initials, and hit
the mark again. Satisfied, the Law was on
the point of retiring, when a burly busliman
burst in. “What the blazes” — he began,
when the police interrupted him. “Who am
I?” he snorted. “Bill Bandicoot, o’ Dingo
Mat. Who th’ ’ell did yer think I was?”
Next morning the hapless Blank heard the
beak saying “Six pounds, with three pounds
fifteen costs —nine fifteen in all.”
* * * *
“T.F.M.”: Nothing is positively known
of the ultimate fate of Cook’s Endeavor be-
yond that, soon after returning to England
from her historic voyage, she was sold out
of the Navy and employed as a collier in
the North Sea. There is no real 'warrant
for the belief (B. 20/2/’29) that she was
a show sight for the Cockneys in the early
part of last century, while serving as a
prison hulk on the Thames. . Still, if the
Endeavor escaped that ignominy the Dis-
covery—consort to the Resolution on Cook’s
final voyage—was less fortunate. _ In 1829
E. W. Cooke, a distinguished marine artist
of the period, made a drawing of that vessel
as she then lay at Deptford as a receptacle
for convicts awaiting transportation.
* * * *
“Chevrolet”: Although they come out of
the factory as like as so many peas, motor
vehicles of standardised make soon acquire
a personality which is easily recognised by
their owners. Recently a truck was stolen
in Melbourne. The thief did his job thor-
oughly, altering the number-plate, repaint-
ing the.body and supplying it with a few
extra bumps and bulges for additional
security. He then sold it to a dealer, who
made some further alterations and disposed of'
it to a firm of aerated-w'ater manufacturers.
They duly adapted it for their own uses. It
had not been on the rounds long before the
real owner, an Italian, accosted the driver,
and with tears in his eyes claimed liis
darling. There was a brief argument, but it
was settled when the Italian invited the
driver to lift the bonnet and. see if the
vacuum tank hadn’t a dint in it in a par-
ticular position.
i]i ■]' : ! :
“D”: A recent judgment in the London
Court of Appeal pointed the moral that there
may be inhumanity in the best-laid schemes
of humanitarians. One Mrs. Grundy left
£200,000 to be spent on a sanctuary where
wild animals would be free. from human
molestation. Her next-of-kin disputed the
will, and lost before the Lower Court. But
on appeal a majority of the Judges agreed
that the trust was not for the benefit of
the animals. It was pointed out that they
would bo, in a position to • prey. on one
another, and would suffer all the terrors,
rigors and lingering diseases of animals in
the wild state. The humanitarians of Mel-
bourne were divided over a similar issue
a couple of years ago. Three
were born in captivity, and were kept in a
cage ready to be trained for circus-work. A
large fund was speedily raised amongst tliose
who consider it cruel to train animals tor
show-work, and the tigers were bought for ttie
Sydney Zoo Plus aroused the.fury of those
who regard the life of an animal n a zoo
as a living death, and simultaneously otliei
animal-lovers were, heard from who claimect
that the only logical thing to do was to
return the tigers to the jungle which was
their natural habitat.
“Listinsect” : Radio marvels continue un-
ceasingly. The other day Bert Hinkler went
up in a Bristol biplane in England and 31,0,
the Melbourne station, sent out a special
broadcast on 32 metres. There was plenty
of interruption, but C. G. Allen, on behalf
of the Australian Press Association, listened
in and heard snatches of music that had
survived a 10,000-mile journey.
* * * *
“Fine Eight” : I have run into mammoth
waves in other latitudes than “the forties.”
One place was the China coast in monsoon
weather; another the S’African coast be-
tween Durban and Capetown (where the
Waratali was lost). Old shellbacks have a
tradition that the biggest wave recorded
was SOft. high, but I don’t know on what it
is based. My last trip from England was
in one of “Baron” Brown’s tugs. Off Cape
Leeuwin we struck a hurricane about dusk
and a green-back curled over the ship
and down the engine-room skylights. For
a moment the vessel just “hung,” water-
logged; fortunately we were well equipped
with auxiliary pumps, or we would have had
a poor chance of ever seeing Newcastle.
*•* * • *
“Arradni” : The functions of the aeroplane
are steadily being enlarged. At a station
some 70 ‘miles inland from Carnarvon
(W.A.), a contractor was attacked with a
razor and horribly slashed. The Carnarvon
police were advised by telegraph, but the
roads were impassable, so the sergeant com-
missioned an aeroplane and dispatched a
constable to the scene of the trouble. The
’plane returned with two passengers, one
badly wounded, the other sequrely handcuffed.
The contractor, whose life was at first de-
spaired of, is now reported out of danger.
* * * *
“G.F.” : Hours of labor were fixed by a
Court in Australia as long ago as 1812. In
April of that year a cabinet-making appren-
tice turned up and asked to have his inden-
tures cancelled because his boss kept him
toiling from daylight till ten at night, and
sometimes till eleven. The Bench thought
this was a bit over the odds, and fired off
a double-barrelled order—to the lad to go
back to his work and to the employer to call
12 hours a day in future.
sjs * * *
“Yoyang”: It is hard to realise that Eng-
land has a half-caste problem—at all events,
crowded seaports, such as Liverpool and
Cardiff have. At Cardiff there are com-
puted to be over 3000 of the offspring of
white women and colored seamen, the latter
including Arabs, Somalis, Egyptians, Senegal-
ese, West Indians, West Africans, Malays
and Chinese. Benevolent societies exist for
the purpose of absorbing the half-caste
children into commercial and domestic life,
and of safeguarding the half-caste girl of
tender years. In Liverpool there is a half-
caste welfare association. Students of mis-
cegenation report that unions between white
women and Chinese or W cst Indians often
produce tolerable results, whereas the child-
ren of the Anglo-negroid mixture are almost
always physically and morally inferior.
POLLY WITH A PUNCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“When the Industrial Peace Conference was sitting
at the Sydney Town Hall, a squad of Communist
women sought to force their way past the attendants,
and a hefty young thing referred to as •Strong-
armed Polly’ laid open the chin of one man with a
blow that would have done credit to a trained
pugilist.”—Age.
Ye bards who in various regions
And eras have fashioned your odes
To Lydias and Chloes in legions,
To Mabels and Maudies in loads;
Ye lovers, your lyrics who volley
At feminine beauty and charm,
What’s wrong with a tribute to Polly,
The strong in the arm?
Has she lips that resemble the roses
Most crimson in bloom or in bud?
Who knows? But her views, one supposes,
Are redder than buckets of blood.
Has she eyes to enrapture a wooer
With their azure or violet display?
Mayhap—but she’ll make him look bluer
Who gets in her way.
Has she arms such as sculptors have moulded,
As shapely as Venus could show,
Arms, lifted in action or folded,
As pure and as white as the snow?
Belike—but ’tis sure she’s a pair of
Bunched fives at pugnacity deft,
And the boldest may well be beware of
The dirt in her left.
Is there someone who calls her his honey,
The girl with a battery that
Might rattle the ribs of a Tunney
Or send a John L. to the mat?
Is she bound in connubial fetter,
This smiter of masculine jaws,
Or does she feel brighter and better
Just wed to the Cause?
Ye weavers of rhymes who your pleasant
And metrical offerings cast
At the Polly who’s pleased with a present,
Or her who is plagued with a past,
I bring you another—a jolly,
Good theme if she doesn’t alarm
With her prowess. No delicate dolly
But a packer of punches, a Polly
Who’s strong in the arm.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Old Q.”: Brisbane discovered an un-
usual sort of motorist the other day. lie ran
into a small boy, and, hopping out of his
car, faded into the wide expanses, unsuccess-
fully pursued by a policeman, The boy was
quite unhurt and presently departed. Then,
as the returned constable and two others
were inspecting the motor, the driver was
seen anxiously watching proceedings from
the back of an interested crowd. Once more
the police pursued and again in vain. Back
at the juggernaut, they discovered that the
gears had been locked in their absence. The
next item on the programme was an agi-
tated female who said the vehicle was lid’s
and had been stolen, also that she did not
desire to press the case. The now
thoroughly maddened John Hops announced
that they were going to keep the ’bus till
they got to the bottom of the mystery. It
was still in their hands at time of writing.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: The hottest person in Mel-
bourne on a recent afternoon, when the mer-
cury touched 98° and the humidity was 52
p.c., was a man who was stopped by the
police as he stepped off an overseas wharf.
He had 45 singlets on.
* * * *
“Spike”: The draft was entraining for
Le Havre at daybreak, and I was bidding
an ample but attractive Frenchwoman fare-
well. “Monsieur,” she suddenly said,
dimpling prettily, “eombicnf” Peering
THE STRAIGHT TIP.
GEORGE (bashful): “S-say, Minnie, w-would a k-kiss be out of placet”
MINNIE: “Well, it shouldn’t be if you have any sense of direction.”
through the window in the direction in-
dicated by -her outstretched finger, I saw
that the object of inquiry was the hessian
arrangement at the rear of the premises
erected bv our thoughtful military authori-
ties “Well” I said, assuming au air of
nonchalant proprietorship, “is it worth 40
francs?” “Mais certuineinent, Monsieur
and she fossicked for her purse. Next morn-
imr when the draft was lined up and ready
to move off a hubbub arose from behind the
row of billets The din grew louder, and
rmite a crowd came into the open with the
one word “Brigand /’’—on all lips. We
were a conscience-stricken-looking lot when
it became apparent that half the field com-
pany had been instrumental in retailing a
piece of army property at bargain prices to
every billet-owner in the township.
* * * *
“Ces”: W. B. Mclnnes and 11. Septimus
Power were commissioned to paint tue pic-
tures of the ceremonies at the Federal Capi-
tal on May 9, 1927 ; the work of their brushes
was hung in King’s Hall, Canberra, the
other day. Power has
sacrificed truth to artistic
license. The arrival of
the Yorks is colorfully
presented, but the fact re-
mains that on the day of
the ceremony there wasn’t
a cloud in the sky.
Power has put on his
can v a s a grey-white,
cloud-banked firmament
such as one rarely sees at
Canberra, presumably to
balance the blank white
of Parliament House.
For the rest, the picture
is mostly a representation
of the backs of soldiers,
sailors and airmen, with
a glimpse of the Royal
carriage and a full-length
picture of Bruce, standing
—in a pluce where he
wasn’t on May 9—-to re-
ceive the Duke and Duch-
ess. Mclnnes's portrait-
ure of the crowd inside
the Senate is excellent.
The picture is well
balanced, the detail care-
fully rendered, and the
heads of the celebrities
are capital likenesses.
Angry words from “Singemoine”:—
I can summon up no enthusiasm over the splendors
of the Orontes, which will soon be running between
England and Australia, with a “special private
dining-room for private dinner parties and bedstead
cabins, each with a private bathroom.” It is another
step in the Americanisation of this country, and it
means (1) that people of my financial standing are
going to be marooned even more effectively than of
old, and (2) that even more fantastic sums will be
spent abroad by rich tourists. Before the war the
shipping companies laid themselves out to carry
passengers cheaply. Then half the world’s gold went
to the U.S.A., and American shippers realised that
a class had arisen which wanted, not to pay less,
but to pay more. Followed “bridal suites” at thou-
sands of dollars for the trans-Atlantic run, a la
carte meals on the lines of the costliest New York
hotels, and all expenses in proportion.
The launching of the Orontes means that a similar
era has dawned in this part of the world. It is a
tribute to our wealth; a hint that for vulgar
ostentation the most purse-proud Yankee war-profiteer
isn’t ahead of us, and another weapon for the armory
of the Bolshie agitator.
* * * *
“fluna”: An ocean adventure such as
youth dreams of was completed the other day
when three young Aucklanders sailed into
the Waitemata Harbor after a voyage of
1000 miles. The craft was the seven-ton
yacht Victory, which had voyaged from
Auckland to Norfolk Island and back with-
out mishap. Captain G. George of the
coaster Hikurangi was the skipper; he took
the yacht direct to Norfolk Island and picked
up North Cape on the return without dilli-
culty. The islanders, who had never seen a
smaller ship, arrive from the outside world,
gave the crew a great reception. The only
casualty was a sting from a Portuguese
man-o-war.
* • at a
“JC. : On an old sheep-station m N. S.
Wales there is a marble bath with a history,
The station dates back to . the early
days. The story is told that its original
owner, while on a visit to Sydney, became
infatuated with a young convict woman, and
managed to get his soul-mate assigned to him
as a servant. He installed her as mistress
on his station, and kept her there in great
style. The bath was specially carved in
Italy for the chatelaine, and cost over
£3OO. Local tradition insists that the lady
used to have it filled with milk every morn-
ing ; after she had finished with it other con-
victs on the estate were free to use it in
their tea.
KNEW HER PART.
"So she didn't marry the actor-chop, after all?"
"No hope! She preferred the property-man?"
“Quack”: The shipping companies are
showing a readiness to meet the convenience
of new-fledged doctors who want to get to
London for experience. It is not many years
since there was no demand for the medico
who thought he should be paid for a one-way
trip; but the surplus of doctors, so notice-
able after the war. lias been followed by a
shortage. A knowledge of the overcrowded
conditions made the profession less attrac-
tive, and the rush was further checked in
N.S.W. when the Sydney University decided
to add a year to the medical course. But
the shortage is world-wide ; it is’ accentuated
by the growing tendency of big businesses to
employ a medical man as part of the staff.
* * * *
“Adel.” : South Aus. has added to its few
historic memorials a windmill outside Mount
Barker —the first or thereabouts in the pro-
vince, and dating from 1842. _ Standing now
as a stone tower and on a hilltop it makes
a good public resort. Langdon Bonython,
Lance Stirling, Louis von Doussa and other
veterans had a hand in the transfer to the
Mount Barker District Council.
* * * *
“Sandy”: Touching these mutilated tele-
grams. I know an Aussie who returned from
London with an English bride. After a due
interval the following cable was sent to the
lady’s parents:—
Twins, girl and boy. All well.
The cable that reached London read: —
Twins, girl and boy as well.
The parents were a bit puzzled, but it
never occurred to them to demand a repeat,
so it was five weeks before the cloud lifted.
* * * *
“Eureka” : Seventy-seven per cent, of the
A.I.F. were Australian-born (B. 13/2/’29.)
The birthplaces, as set down by the officer m
charge of base records, were as follows:
N.S.W., 88,250; Victoria, 92,553: Queens-
land, 28,253; South Australia, 27,761; West-
ralia, 8042; Tasmania, 13,104; Maoriland,
4214; United Kingdom, 64,221; other
British countries, 2246; foreign countries,
3137.
* * * *
“H.C.”: I don’t know why Bognor, where
King George is convalescing, should be ad-
verscly criticised, for it is one of the most
pleasant seaside resorts on the Sussex coast.
It was a little fishing village famous for its
prawns until its wide extent of firm sands
brought it popularity. Its sunshine record
is only excelled by two seaside places m
England. Its sea is never muddy and seldom
grey; just English Channel with all its
varied moods and changing beauty. The
country round is flat, but green meadow land
and wide cornfields have their own charm.
Bognor is no stranger to royalty; Queen
Victoria as a child used to spend her sum-
mers there.
* * =i= *
“Ike Holler”: Queer name combinations'?
Perhaps a prosperous country sideshowman
who used to sign his contracts and cheques
“Has. L. Dazzle” may be remembered. He
claimed that his rightful baptismal monicker
was Rascombe Leslie Dazzle.
* * * *
“Blue Nose”: That Chow medico with his
labelled medicines to fit the chart of a
human body (B. 20/2/’29) must have got his
inspiration from the medicine-chests issued
in the long ago bv the Board of Trade
to the masters of British deep-sea sailing
vessels. There were no names on the labels,
each of which bore a number. A book of
instructions described the symptoms of pos-
sible cases, and advised administration of a
given quantity of whatever number was
called for. It worked splendidly, too, with
occasional exceptions, such as the case of
the skipper who, finding he was out of No.
17. resourcefully administered a mixture of
9 and 8.
* * * *
“Chev.”: The driver of a heavy motor-
truck which got into a collision in Melbourne,
turned out to be 10 years old, and the father,
an Italian, voiced a popular delusion when he
contended that the fact that he, a licensed
driver, was sitting beside the infant absolved
both of them from blame. Scores of parents
allow their children to drive under this mis-
apprehension. The only loophole in the Vic.
law is that a reasonable period for tuition
may be allowed before the prospective Jehu
comes of driving age. One motorist recently
rested his defence on this plea, but when the-
beak found that the period in this case would
amount to six years he prescribed the maxi-
mum penalty.
“Morkrum”: The first item of intelligence
to be reported by telegraph in N.S.W. was an
account of the burning of the Coach and
Ilorses Hotel, Liverpool, early in 1858. Soon
afterwards Liverpool also supplied the first
N.S.W. election result that was sent along
a wire.
* * * *
“Aplomb”: A Brisbane photographer’s
duties took him up in an aeroplane the
other day. Just as the machine was set-
tling down to its work, a tliree-foot snake
crawled from the back of the fuselage be-
tween the artist’s feet. The only thing he
had wherewith to smite the intruder
was his professional apparatus, and he hit
out with this, bellowing to the pilot the
while. His yells were drowned by the engines,
and the fight went on, without any result
save infuriating the snake and ruining a 40-
guinea camera. The passenger had just
climbed out on a wing when the pilot looked
round and returned to earth. The snake was
killed, and turned out to be a harmless
species.
jJ: * * ♦
“Castleton”: As our train drew near Mel-
bourne a pretty girl tearfully confided to the
compartment that she had lost her ticket and
had not sufficient money to pay the fare that
would be demanded. “Take mine,” said a
Galahad opposite to me. “But what will
you do?” asked the girl. “Leave that to
me,” she was told.' Interested, I watched
my chivalrous fellow-passenger as he plunged
into the melee at the barrier. I heard him
challenged, and heard also his vehement
assertion that he had given in his ticket. He
could even give the number, he said, and he
did. An examination of the collector’s stock
duly disclosed the ticket bearing that num-
ber. “I got the girl through in front of
me,” he said gleefully as we met again out-
side the barrier.
* * * *
“Carel”: Women are popularly supposed
to cherish the golden symbol of matrimonial
bondage above all other earthly possessions,
but Greenthorpe (N.S.W.) is beginning to
have honest doubts. A local butcher in the
course of his business discovered one of these
articles in the interior of a five-year-old bul-
lock. He advertised for the owner, and no
fewer than three women came along to inspect
the “find,” but each decided it was not hers.
So somewhere still there is a fourth lady
whose sacred emblem of wifehood somehow
went down the poddy’s neck.
* * * *
“Light Horse”: “G.S.M.’s” defence of that
master poseur “Lawrence of * the Iledjaz”
(B. 27/2/’29) consists mostly of bald asser-
tion. ' He says his hero loathed- publicity,
ignoring that amazing piece of egoism “The
Revolt in the Desert” and Lawrence’s habit
of posing for photographs. The fact that
Lawrence gave his army pay towards “the
expenses of the campaign” and refused all
decorations is in keeping .with the man’s
innate theatricality. The best commentary on
the assertion that Lawrence was not given
funds to bribe the Arabs is the recent an-
nouncement in the House of Commons that
the British had wiped out the annual subsidy
of £65,000, which had been continued to
King Hussein of the Hedjaz ; it was further
mentioned that the present contumelious
attitude of the Wahabi who kicked Hus-
sein out and grabbed his job was attri-
buted to the drying up of this golden
fountain. The Arab army put no strain
on Turkish transport and supply, because
it was working out in a desert which furnished
no supplies to anyone but a Bedouin. Its
value as a fighting force may be gauged from
the fact that one. Australian Brigade held
off the w r hole show, without firing a shot, to
prevent the massacre of a couple of Turkish
regiments -which had surrendered. As to
Lawrence being one of “the very few English-
men who thoroughly understood the whole
Eastern geographical and racial question.’’
I would point out that the young man’s ex-
perience of “the East” before the war con-
sisted of a four-year's’ job as an assistant
archaeologist on the Euphrates.
THE BEACHCOMBER’S DREAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A Maorilander, perambulating one of his native
beaches, came upon a lump of ambergis weighing
nearly 300 oz. and valued at anything from £3OOO
to £9000.”
The Blessed Isles! How aptly called, pardie!
When lie vdio pads the hoof along the
shore,
From plashing waves absorbing melody
And deeper music from the ocean’s roar,
May suddenly, his popping eyes before,
Discern —and stoop to lift, aglow with bliss —
A find worth twice its weight in aureate
ore,
A chunk of ultra-precious ambergris.
There’s many a beach in leaner lands may be
What lyric-lilting Swinburne sang of yore,
“Sad with sick leavings from the sterile sea,”
But sad aud sterile were misnomers sore
For treasure from the sick cetacean’s store
Washed to the wanderer by the waves, like
this.
And priced at twenty quid an ounce or
more—
You never know your luck with ambergris!
Lord, should you purpose affluence for me,
I crave not Fortune tapping at the door
With shares in some loud-boosted company
For which petroleum in its native bore
Waits some mosaic touch to gush galore.
Little I care though such a chance I miss.
Lead me —and all life’s worries I’ll
ignore—
To an impressive lump of ambergris.
Phyllis, I wouldn’t trade you—l adore
You so—for all your weight in gold, I wis.
But I’d be tempted, shaken to the core,
If the commodity were ambergris.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


7 'htee lOee/to & EfiXOt&t,
c
iii
»
wmm
¥
':W
mi
*
m
fife
%
V <*■.
anr
&
fa
m
V.
m.
m
m-fr
* iWt
s %
ia
UK \
<©o
■M
i>.
-+4* *- •-
*
- - - - Royal Show, Dress
Functions, Happy Holidays
—Have you Ordered Your
Murdoch Suit?
Men’s Sac Suits
I OOK your best at Easter! Be Murdoch attired in the height of
-*— l fashion. These Men’s Ready-for-Service Suits give the impression
that the suit was made expressly to your
requirements. Graded sizes include
Regular, Stout, Short-stout and Slender.
Coat, Vest and Trousers complete for
immediate wear. Single Breasted style,
é
All Wool Serges
Men’s Superior-grade Woollen
Cheviot Serge Sac Suits.—
Guaranteed Pure Indigo Dye.
Sizes include Stout, Short-stout
and Slender. Coat, Vest and
Trousers complete.
Ready for immedi-
ate use
Fine Twill All-Wool Serge,
Indigo Dye 907-
Superior Qualities, H and-
finished, 105/-, 115/-, 135/-
70/-
All Wool Tweeds
Also Me n’s A 11-W oo 1
Australian Tweed Sac Suits,
of excellent quality. Made by
experienced experts in the
popular S.B. style. Scientific
grading ensures
perfect fitting
for every figure,
70 1-
Super Quality Worsteds, 84/-
DO NOT DELAY.
Place your order now
and receive by Imme-
diate Mail a perfect-
fitting suit up to the
minute in style—and
then there’s the saving
due to the absence of
middlemen’s profits.
ê
ë
ē
ĕ
ė
park* GEORGE SI SYDNEY
The World's Larges d Boys' Wear Store
Kindly address all letters
to Desk R.,
Box 3875TT, G.P.O.


A ROTHWELL £6/6/-
Suit to Measure
Fulfils the desire of the
clothes-conscious man
to dress well with due
regard to economy.
There’s a host of pat-
terns to choose from,
including guaranteed-
dye serges. Tailored in
true Rothwell style for
£6/6/-
Write for patterns and self
measurement forms to Desk li
ROTHWELLS OUTFITTING
-\_LIMITED—
EDWARD STREET irj, BRISBANE
e
Follow the
Chart
TEXACO keeps your engine clean.
BUY FROM THE TEXACO VISIBLE OIL
SERVER BOTTLE, AND ENSURE:
Freedom from carbon
Clean Valves and Spark Plugs
Protection against heat and wear
Economy in consumption
High compression and more
power
TEXACO
CLEAN "CLEAR** GOLDEN
MOTOR OIL
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed (or the Excellence o( Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonweahh.
Cable and Telegraphic Addiesn:
“Usherotel, Sydney.’*
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Danny Levy, Speaker of the N.S.W.
Assembly, who has been knighted, is a poli-
tical stone that has never rolled to any
extent. He first entered the Leg. Assembly
at the age of 28 as member for Fitzroy (he
is now 56), and he has represented the same
area—known later as Darlinghurst and later
still as Paddington—ever since. During all
that time lie has lived in the district, where
he is as well known as King’s Cross, and
his political views have never altered by a
hair’s-bread th. The most radical step he
ever took was to get himself disbarred over
a decade ago and start practice as a soli-
citor. He was called to the N.S.W. Bar,
after a brilliant career at Sydney University,
in 1895.
JUSTICE D. SMITH, recently appointed
Judge of the Supreme Court of Maori-
land.
t
Fate played a malign trick on Charles
Stumm, who less than a month ago was
transferred to the Queensland Supreme Court
Bench. Alighting from a Brisbane tram, he
was run over by a motor-car and killed; tha
driver will have to * stand his trial on a
charge of manslaughter. Like McCawley,
C.J., whose death was as sudden, Stumm was
a general favorite, while his fame as a lawyer
ran far outside his native State. Indeed,
before lie received bis appointment from the
McCormack Government it was expected
that he would find his way to a Federal
judgeship, like liis lifelong friend Lukin.
The appointment of Canon Frewer, of the
Bunbury Bush Brotherhood, to the bishopric
of N.-W. Australia is the fifth occasion in
recent years on which a Bush Brother has
been made bishop. The others are Feetham
(North Queensland), liaise (Riverina),
Thomas (Willochra) and Wylde (Coadjutor
of Bathurst). None of the five is Aus-
tralian-born, but they are all thoroughly well
acclimatised.
The only Little Brother on board the Largs
Bay when she arrived in Melbourne the other
day was Robert de Ropp. He is a son of
Baron de Ropp, who was a wealthy Lithua-
nian landowner until the Bolsheviks burgled
his property.
Tom Gilchrist, formerly secretary of Vic.
Railway Committee and Clerk of the Leg.
Council, left £3200, all of which goes to
his sister. Shortly before lie fell sick Tom
tried to take up a Mallee block, but as he
was 00 and there was brisk competition his
application was not granted. He must have
had tremendous courage to entertain the idea
of tackling a Mallee area when limping to-
wards the seventies.
South Aus. will be well represented at
the coming Education Conference in Canada.
It is sending Prof. Archibald Strong, for-
merly of Melbourne, an authority on the Re-
pertory movement as well as his awn sub-
ject, literature ; George Jeffrey, of the School
of Mines, who specialises in wool; A.
A. Lendon, a leading medical man; and
Alec Melrose, law partner to Attorney-
General Ilomburg, and in his lighter
moments a valued Bulletin contributor.
If not quite as ready a wit as his late
brother John, Frank Gavun Duffy, of the
High Court Bench, has brightened many a
dull case and contributed to the gaiety of
countless social gatherings. At Bar dinners
he used to be a prince of jesters. At a
send-off to Teddy Carlile, the Vic. Par-
liamentary draftsman, he thanked that
functionary for helping an old friend to
make a living. Duffy was counsel for the
plaintiff in the famous action of McCaughan
v. the Argus, which respectable family
paper had described McCaughan in lilting
lines as “a mountain of moving brawn”;
and while the thing lasted Melbourne —
thanks very largely to counsel for the plain-
tiff—was one vast smile. He has been a
High Court Justice since 1913, and was
knighted last week on his 77th birthday,
or its equivalent—he was born on the last
day of February in a leap-year.
T. 11. Dodds, who becomes Adjutant-
General of the C.M.F. in place of J. 11.
Bruche, transferred to London, is a Tyne-
sider, but was a school-teacher in Queens-
land when he first thirsted for war’s alarms.
He went to South Africa as adjutant of the
sth Q. 1.8., and saw a lot of fancy and mixed
fighting under Plumer, collecting a D.S.O.
in the process. The Great War found him
well up on the Commonwealth permanent
staff; he was named D.A.G. in France in
1917, and was for a while commandant at
Horscferry-road. Since then he has hell
most of the big billets on the Australian
staff, including that to which Bruche has
gone. Many years of exposure to the inevit-
able sobriquet of “Tommy Dodd” (his
father was also “Tommy Dodd”) have not
soured his jovial disposition.
Father Pat Corcoran, the doyen of the
R.C. clergy in Australia, has gone out, at
84. A Tipperary man, he was in charge
of the one parish, Morpeth (N.S.W.), for
54 years. In the same week died Brother
Bodkin, one of the original Christian
Brothers in Australia, who founded schools
in N. S. Wales, Queensland and Westralia,
and built the monastery in East Melbourne
which is now the mother-house of the order.
He spent the last 30 years among the orphans
at Clontarf (W.A.), and was 86 at the end.
Norman William Kater, M.L.C., who has
been made a K. 8., is the head of the oldest
pastoral family in N. S. Wales. He is
associated with all the institutions in which
his late father, H. E. Kater, was interested
—the C.S.R. (of which he is a director), the
Graziers’ Association (he is a past president)
and the Australian Club. Kater went to
the war with the Red Cross ; then he trans-
ferred to the French Army as Medicin Aide
de Major (he is one of the few Australian
pastoralists with a medical degree), and
on his return to N. S. Wales he was adju-
tant to the A.A.M.C. for a while. He was at
All Saints’, Bathurst, and Sydney Grammar,
and he rowed in the Sydney ’Varsity eight
just 33 years ago.
Arthur Calwell, a smart Vic. Treasury
officer, who has been re-elected president of
the State branch of the Public Servants’
Association, has political ambitions. F'ellow-
Laborites regard him as a likely successor to
Dr. Maloney as Federal member for Mel-
bourne ; the little doctor will be 75 next
month. Calwell has been the backbone of
the N. Mclb. A.N.A. branch team which has
thrice in succession won the organisation’s
debate tournament. He is an omnivorous
reader arid is good company.
A limb of a sturdy N.S.W. financial tree
fell with the death of Joshua Vickery in
Sydney. Ebenezer Vickery made a million
before he died, and brother Joshua did ex-
ceedingly well in the leather line. Like
Ebenezer, he had a strong religious bent, and
wrote on such subjects as the Second Com-
ing of Christ with the optimism of a theatri-
cal advance-agent. He was 90 when he
crossed the Jordan.
George Alfred Julius is one of the new
N.S.W. knights. He is a son of Archbishop
Julius, who shocked Christchurch (M.L.) by
declaring that it was better for young men
to play games on Sunday than to loaf at
street corners, and acknowledging that he
liked a knock at the wickets before church-
hours himself. Brought up in this liberal
atmosphere, G. A. Julius qualified in engi-
neering at the Maoriland Uni., and was for
eight years in the service of the Westralian
J.E. DOWLING, nine times Mayor of
Balranald ( N.S.W. ) in succession, and
owner of the well-known Keri Keri
station.
railways before setting up his shingle in
Sydney as a consulting engineer. Il'e is chair-
man of the Commonwealth Council for Scien-
tific and Industrial Research, but if a
sport-loving nation remembers him when he
is gone it will not be for his scientific attain-
ments. He was the inventor of the automatic
tote.
Before W. 11. Irvine left the Federal
Parliament to become Vic. C.J. lie sug-
gested that A. E. Chandler should have a
shot at politics. “But don’t do it, Chandler,”
he said, with one of his rare smiles, “if
you value your peace of mind.” Chandler
thought it over and decided that he would
run no great risk of mental strain by trying
the Plush Chambah. He has not done so
badly in a few years, what with a scat on
the Railway Committee and a position in
the McPherson Cabinet, —he is Minister of
Works. During his own 24 years in politics
Irvine had only a trifle over four years in
office, including 20 months as Premier of
Vic.
North Queensland has seen the last of one
of its quaintest citizens, Quoug Sue Duk,
the Chinese doctor. Quong married four times
and leaves nine sons and 14 daughters. He
was rarely sighted in the streets without a
top-hat and an umbrella, and his shop win-
dow was embellished with a portrait of an
incomplete group of his descendants —there
wasn’t room for them all. Ilis sixth son
came to Australia with the Chinese Soccer
team two years ago.
Clive Baillieu has made a shining success
of everything he has attempted so far. At
Oxford he got a rowing blue and a high
degree in 1913. At the war he became a
lieut.-colonel at the age of 27, and he did
admirable demobilisation work afterwards on
Monash’s staff. He proved a first-class busi-
ness man in the Melbourne office of his
father, “W.L.,” and he has now been given a
C.M.G. for his work on the Imperial Wire-
less and Cable Conference in London. The
Liberals want Baillieu to stand for one of
their softer seats at the coming British gen-
eral elections. He is a first-class speaker,
and has the good looks of all the men of his
family, besides having plenty of money.
Rear-Admiral Napier, first member of the
Commonwealth Naval Board, is retiring
in June. Like Rear-Admiral Munro Kerr,
who is to succeed him, he comes of stock
associated with the senior service almost
since its beginnings. He took part in the
operations off Gallipoli and in the mine-
sweeping work in the Straits. Flag rank
came his way in 1924, and two years later
he received his Australian appointment.
Napier is the holder of that not very com-
mon naval distinction a good-service pension.
11. E. Neal, Queensland’s new Collector
of Customs, Las been holding down a similar
job in Westralia. He is no stranger to
McCormack’s country, having been senior in-
spector there for two years from 1923. He
is a N. S. Welshman, and has seen most pf
his departmental service in his native State.
Dr. E. H. Sugden is to write a life of
George Swinburne, who died in his seat in
Vic. Leg. Council a few months ago. Swin-
burne was the Minister who introduced and
had passed the Water Supply Act defining
beds and banks and placing control of sources
in some sort of order; the founder of a great
technical school; and the man who straight-
ened out things for the Defence Department
when its business affairs had got it worried
after the war. There will be heaps of
material for Sugden if he can manage to
sort it out and serve it up in attractive style.
A tough old Cornstalk is James Connor,
who owns one of the finest dairy farms in
the Clarence district. Although past three
score and ten and minus a leg—it was am-
putated by Dr. Earle Page, the Federal
Treasurer —Connor can ride as well as the
youngest stockman on the Clarence, and is
often in the saddle from daylight until
dark. He is one of four brothers who have
all proved that scientific dairying can be
made to pay handsomely.
Most; of Melbourne’s portrait statuary is a
low joke on the departed, and it is beginning
to dawn on people who wish to put up
memorials in public that the Australian
national costume doesn’t make for as much
dignity as the Roman toga. So in per-
petuating the memory of his brother, for
20 years the civic father of Bourke Ward,
Councillor Baron Marks is taking no risks,
lie has purchased from sculptor Montford a
group which represents “The Court Fav-
orite” and shows a leopard playing with an
Indian youth. It. doesn't seem to have much
to do with aldermanship, but it is a fine
piece of work which figured in a Royal
Academy exhibition, and it is to be set up in
Melbourne’s oldest lung, the Flagstaff
Gardens.
Macdonald, of Moresby, once wore the
uniform of the Scots Greys. Seeking live-
lier adventure, he found it in New Guinea
under the greut Macgregor, especially when
he civilised the inhabitants of Rossel Island
after they had killed and eaten 200-odd
Chinamen from the wreck of the St. Paul.
In a skirmish Macdonald shot a Rossel
Islander and then rescued him from
a watery grave at the risk of his own life.
Aboard the Mcrrie England Mac. constituted
himself the heathen’s nurse, and patiently
learned his lingo. Months later the Merrie
England returned to Rossel, and Macdonald,
heedless of shouted threats and brandished
clubs, landed with his grateful captive. The
boy, loaded with presents, quietened his
fellow-cannibals, and Rossel Island was won
over. The intrepid Scot rose high in the
service, from which he recently retired on a
pension.
Norman Brearley, whose name was brought
up at the inquiry into Captain Larkin’s dud
charges against Malcolm Shepherd, of the
Defence Department—it was said that his
C.H. BRIGGS, general manager of the
Brisbane Newspaper Co., which pub-
lishes the Courier and other papers.
company, Westralian Airways, had received
concessions denied to Larkin’s co. —arrived
in Perth the winter after the war.
in which he was severely wounded, with
two Avro machines. His first public
flight in one of these was nearly his
last; in ascending, as he had to do, from a
small recreation-ground, he fell foul of a
maze of electric-light wires, but managed to
keep going. Nowadays he is a personage in
the world of commercial aviation. While
abroad lately he ordered four De Haviland
Hercules ’planes, a type in which power is
provided by three 500-h.p. Bristol Jupiter
motors. And the ’buses that carry men and
mails from Perth to Derby, and those which
will carry them to Adelaide, are to be fitted
with what is regarded as the most important
development in aviation of the last decade,
the Handley-Page slotted wing—the first
commercial fleet in the world to be thus safe-
guarded.
THE WELSH WIZARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Lloyd George, addressing 410 prospective
Liberal candidates on St. David’s Day, declared that,
if returned to power, he would reduce unemploy-
ment to normal within a year without adding a
penny to taxation.”
Wizard of Wales, in Britain’s darkest hour
A leader and a driving force beyond
All other men, prestige and place and powt.’
Have ebbed away, but still you wave your
wand.
Uncaring that to ev’ry necromancer
A time must come at last when magic
fails,
You go the limit and await the answer,
Wizard of Wales.
Wizard of Wales, higher you soared and
higher,
Supreme, a nation underneath your spell,
On wings of words that glowed with Celtic
fire
And —who contests it? —doughty deeds as
well.
Now, though the writing on the wall were
plainer
Than that which shot Belshazzar off the
rails,
You show yourself the same old game cam-
paigner,
Wizard of Wales.
Wizard of Wales, to window-dress ad libit.
Was always in your pre-election I'"-.
Still, the Millennium you might exhibit
This trip with little danger, I opine,
Seeing that it becomes a question whether
Your war chest and the crowd behind that
trails
Won’t be uncomfortably ground together
Between the upper millstone and the nether,
Wizard of Wales.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


Poverty
Point
“Cauboy”: The biggest tour-
ing co. yet sent on its travels by
the Firm will set out shortly to
give “The Desert Song,” “The
Student Prince” and “The Maid
of the Mountains” to the pro-
vinces. It will be over 70
strong, and will include some of
the Australians who made a re-
cord for length of service with
the recent G. and S. entourage.
The Perth girl Lilian Crisp will
be the star. This graceful
singer played opposite John
Brownlee when Fritz Hart’s
“Deirdre” was intruded into the last grand-
opera season in Melbourne.
“Spokeshave”: A new opera by Fritz Hart,
“The Woman Who Laughed at Faery,” is
promised this year. It was to have been
produced by the Williamson-Melba Opera
Co. of 1924, but it was trampled on and
forgotten in the rush of “Carmens" and
“Trovatores.” lake "Deirdre," done in Mel-
bourne in 1927, it is Celtic in inspiration.
For a change, the indefatigable Fritz is
engaged on another piece based on a comedy
by Moli&re. It is a big work requiring a
full orchestra, a large cast and a whole
evening.
“L.H.P.”: Lily Lantry never visited Aus-
tralia, though the Firm fished for her
in the ’eighties. It was Harry Mus-
grove’s cousin, Henrietta Hodson (Mrs.
Labouchere, of Truth) , who first put the
Lily on the boards —at a charity show at
the London Haymarket on Doe. 15, 1881.
She played Kate in “She Stoops to Conquer,”
and Bancroft, in his memoirs, notes how
coldly she was received. Wingfield, who
designed the dresses for the B. and B ; pro-
duction of “Much Ado” here, did similar
service for her “Antony and Cleopatra” pro-
duction in London. Earlier that year (1890)
she had captured London at the fashionable
St. James’s Theatre as Rosalind, with Aus-
tralia’s old friends Lawrence Cautley
(Orlando), Beatrice Lamb (Phoebe) and
Mat Brodie (Sylvius) in the cast. Hers was
the best Cleopatra I have seen.
“Cine Ma”: It doesn’t seem to have been
observed that the talkies have brought the
key to perpetual youth to at least one
class of entertainer. Concert singers now in
their prime should forthwith have their
entire repertoire recorded, an undertaking
that should not occupy more than a few
flays. Then they should put away the
films over against that inevitable day when
old age, stoutness, shortage of breath and
a relaxed larynx begin to creep upon them.
Then they may retire into private life, re-
leasing a'film from time to time as financial
necessity dictates. Thus may the Madame
Melbas of to-day totter into theatres 50 years
hence and watch a future generation thrill-
ing to their voices in their golden prime, and
looking at their girlish figures and then-
faces on which time's hand has, so to speak,
not yet implanted a solitary crow's-foot.
“L. de R.”: A curious example of alleged
pirating has cropped up in Melbourne. An
amateur co. staged a play under the title ot
“Nell Gwyn Wins,” and local critics were
quick to point out that il had all the appear-
ance of being a barefaced theft from lan
Hay’s “Sport of Kings,” introduced here at
the Athenaeum in 1920 after a long run in
London. The author, a local man, promptly
went to a magistrate and made a statutory
declaration that he laid written the thing
over 18 years ago and that he toured Maori-
land with it in 1911. The alleged explanation
is that the original piece was not copyrighted,
that a member of the co. took it to the Hub,
and that got hold of it and turned it
into the best seller it eventually became.
“Hamfat” : Arthur Middleton, whose magi-
cal baritone gathered big audiences on his
Australasian tours in 1922 and 1920, has
died. Middleton could go broke as well ns
he could sing; lie was so up against it when
he left America on his 1922 tour that he
had to travel steerage, and even then the
passage-money was borrowed. Crowded
houses at Honolulu put him on his rent
again.
“Adam Ant": Lately dead A. B. Tapping,
mentioned by “L.H.P.” (B. 20/2/2.)), was
one of the old-style producers, fond of
directing actors and nctorines to
“always stand 18 inches away from
the scenery.” A cut-and-dried repro-
duction of English productions was his
long suit : he had little initiative and
no. imagination. He it was, not Kol-
-I'n.s, who played Percival in the first
“Sweet Nell” production in 1902. He
was one of George Musgrove s impor-
tations and never worked actually tor
the Firm. “L.H.P.” is wrong in say-
ing that “Zaza” was first played here
in 1909. It was done long before that.
That season was the “Sweet Kitty
Bellairs” outbreak which Tapping
stage-managed.
“Imogen”: Overworked cinema nov-
elties like Indians, wolf-dogs, fighting
stallions, floods, miracles, storms and
Lon Chaney’s horrific grimaces (B.
G/2/’29) have their parallel on the
legit. The most recent sample was the
mechanical effects of “The Ghost
Train” and its natural offspring ‘ The
Wrecker,” which are sure to be worked
to death. Producers do not seem to
appreciate that a stunt which is good
art once is plain creaking machinery
the second time. Take the race-
machines in “The Whip’ and
llur,” the tricks of “The Bat and
“The Cat and the Canary,” and the
boring succession of trial scenes.
“Lysander” Norman Wister and
Mary Curtain, of “The Family Up-
stairs” and “New Brooms companies,
are man and wife —Mr. and Mrs. Nor-
man Simpson. Off-stage they have a
suburban cottage and a perambulator
in Hawthorn, Melbourne. Miss Cur-
tain was a teacher of elocution, and
Simpson a popular producer of play-
lets for schools and amateur dramatic
societies. They were both repertorians
who rounded off a series of acted
romances with a real-life one. They
have onlv recently joined professional ranks,
where Mary Curtain’s pleasant voice ana
enunciation are proving an asset.
“Wood’s Green”: Years of strenuous work
in the theatrical world of New York have
taken toll of Will R. Barnes’s vitality, and
he is now only convalescent after a nervous
break-down which involved eight months in
hospitals and rest-homes. W ill got Ins nrs
chance in Melbourne when he designed the
dresses for the .T. C. Williamson production
of “Djin Djin.” He has now started on
costume sketches for the spring shows m
Manhattan.
“Salem Scudder”: I was passing the stage
door of Melbourne Comedy the other night
when I saw the eight principal actors in
“Pigs” being forcibly removed to tlieir home.
Unsympathetic stage-hands seized each pro-
testing artist and bundled him, squealing,
into one of Hutton’s trucks. An old barn-
stormer friend of other years was gloomily
watching these proceedings. “All, laddie,
he said to me, “Rignold and Bland Holt
loved horses on the stage; Charles Arnold
went in for dogs; we had two white bulls
on when I played in ‘Julius Caesar’; they
had kangaroos and suchlike wild fowl in
Bill Anderson’s shows, and once I saw an
elephant. But, gad, boy! Now it's pigs!
Common pork! Pigsties for realism! The
dramatic art has sunk low indeed. The
stage has gone to the —er —gone to pot,
sir!”
“Quasimodo”: I cannot agree with
“L.11.P.” (B. 20/2/’2D) that either Tither-
ndgo or Alfred Dampier was versatile—
Dampier certainly was not. For example, he
was the same man as Starlight or Hamlet, as
Edmond Dantes or a hundred heroes, of bel-
lowdrama. His magnificent voice and his
marked mannerisms were unmistakable in
any and every part, and although he was
fond of having a shot at low comedy he was
the most unfunny comedian I have ever seen
or played with. Titheradge was certainly
more versatile, hut 7m Hamlet was very like
his Wilfred Denver. He had a nice sense ot
farce-comedy, however, which was wholly
lacking in Dampier. By the way Fred Mar-
shall was a comedian only, Quilp notwith-
standing. I remember his Buggins, the vil-
lain of a Dick Whittington panto, at the
old Princess’s, in which his brother Edmund
also ran.
“E do R.”: To match its unexampled
front which is already the most remarkable
architectural feature in Melbourne, the new
State Theatre intends to employ a new sort
of bloke to show people to their seats. Ho
is no longer to be called an usher—he is an
attache, and there are to be 40 of him, fresh
from college preferred. A good general edu-
cation, gentlemanly address and references
from clergymen are required. There is no
mention of chuckers-out. Presumably when
one of the State’s guests gets obstreperous,
the attaches will break off diplomatic rela-
tions with him and leave the dirty work to
the police.
“Goldilocks”: The “imported” stage per-
son of to-day is just as likely to be a return-
ing Australian as not. Reg Collins, now seeing
that the trains in “The Wrecker puff pro-
perly, first showed his aptitude for that sort
of thing in “The Ghost Train” when it
opened in Australia. Then he went to Eon-
don and convinced E. J. Carroll that nobody
could better handle the stage effects for the
new Ridley thriller.
“C B.”: Returning Melbourne, soprano
Evelyn Scotney is to be fully exploited in
her native town. She is to appear m
oratorio, in a series of costume recitals at
the Town Hall, and in a performance ot
“Elijah” with the Melbourne Philhar-
monics and the Symphony orchestra.
A CLERICAL VIEW OF IT. . we not possibly
“We do not find that either side in the Industrial conflict turns to the Churches for advice. In our effort to
become emasculated and practically useless in this great emergency? —From the Presidential address of the Rev. H.E. Andreus at
WHEN THEY GO BACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Miss Poste Nasal and Miss Lollie Leggcs, the
English star actresses brought out for leading parts
in ‘The Spare Bedroom’ and ‘Mud Splashes,’ are
tall and willowy with classic features, glorious
natural blue-blonde hair, superb figures, beautifully
modulated musical voices, etc.”
Sometimes these sweet unltnownS-before
from Bow find Ileav’n-knows-where,
Must wonder how ’twixt dusk and dawn they
blossomed out so fair;
By what strange magic were dismissed their
adenoidal ills
To send their freakish looks and legs head-
lining on the bills!
Will such as they not suffer when some day
not far ahead
They wake again in Blackpool Pav. whence
they were spirited?
When they go back to Blackpool or join the
Wigan round;
Won’t they be bored with Blackpool, these
stars the pufifsters found?
Won’t they be over Blackpool, these queens
Australia crowned?
They can't have dreamed when
doing turns at Poplar and
East Ham
That they’d in far Antipodes as
Bernhardts make a slam.
They must have blinked when
first they read in tooth-
paste ads. and pars.
That they in form were Venuses
and in their art were stars.
Until thus given soul and chic
they never even knew
They had ’em. How will Mar-
gate satisfy them now they
do?
Can they go back to Margate,
once more to do the round
O’ liamsgate, Hartlepool and
Rhyl, these stars the puff-
men found?
Bucking the fit-ups and the
smalls, the queens Australia
crowned ?
N.s.w,
LYSANDER.


Another delicious Rex
Salmonelle Savoury
Roties a la Minime,
Cut slices of stale bread
into rounds, and fry a gold-
en brown. Spread with
Salmonelle. Slice some
tomatoes and put a piece
on each round; season
with pepper and salt. Cut
some REX bacon into very
thin slices; roll each slice
so that it meets in the
middle; place on top of
tomatoes. Cook in the
oven until bacon is done.
Salmonelle is a very choice
REX fish paste with a de-
lightfully delicate flavour.
It is quite unlike the
ordinary fish paste and
very superior. It is de»
licious for sandwiches.
JONES
J~<
I
cm
'"' J CA>a* tCc C b IrV^*-*"^^?
*&r.» u u“
' „.W>*u~«w#
"YfV^
'/fV z
, R|E|X
f>.
%
«-•
In dainty
glass iars
Other REX Sandwich Delicacies.
REX Luncheon Cheese, in 4oz. &. 2oz. tins &. porcelain jars
REX-PYE, in Ilb & tins REX Ham and Tongue
REX Ham Pate, 2oz. &. 3*oz. tins REX Veal aind Bacon
REX Veal and Tongue Pate REX Anchovy Paste
REX Devilled Ham REX Bloater Paste
Always say REX
FOGGITT JONES PTY. LTD.
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon.
è
Salmonelle


Booking
AT
Busy Seasons
Never take it for granted that "The Australia” is full, or
listen to people who say "it’s no use applying—they’re sure
to be booked-up.”
On the contrary, our accommodation is equal to practically all
demands placed upon it. Should we be fully booked when you
apply, we will gladly arrange the next best available accom-
modation.
Telegraphic, Cable and Wireless Address: *'Austraotel,” Sydney
Capital Paid-Up,
£422.100.
é
THE HOTEL OF THE
COMMONWEALTH
SYDNEY
THE +7 ROSS BINOCULAR
ê
THE IDEAL
FIELD-GLASS
for the
EASTER MEETING
Such binoculars as these, with clear-cut magnification and extra wide vision, will
add considerably to your enjoyment of the forthcoming Easter Meeting. The +7
Ross is one of the finest binoculars in the world for all-round use—a British
article of the highest quality.
Ross Binoculars Range in Price from £lO.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.
PLAIN FIGURES.
(Optical Department, Ist Floor),
23-25 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
CASH ONLY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her- Majesty’s “Hit the Deck”
Criterion “The Patsy ’
Koyai ‘‘The Wrecker”
Palace (com. Saturday) “M hite Collars”
Tivoli . Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Desert Song”
royal “The Marionettes”
King’s “The Flying Squad”
New Comedy “Pigs”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
BRISBANE SHOW FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “The Sport of Kings”
Although the betting seemed as if it ought
to be 50 to 1 against, the new State Theatre
in Melbourne “opened its mighty doors
(the same as the Capitol in Sydney) up
to schedule —10.30 in the morning, to be
precise. The fact was a tribute to the Aus-
tralian workmen, contractors and architects
who completed one of the biggest building
jobs in Victorian history in the record time
of seven months. For weeks the State had
been discarding its scaffolding bit by bit,
like an Oriental beauty preparing for a dip.
What was finally diselosed is, according to
the responsible authorities, a perfect blend-
ing of Byzantine, Florentine and Sara-
cenic art. The present writer doesn’t know
about that. To him it suggests a flapper’s
dream, compounded of all she has picked
up of art, history, beauty and the outside
world from an exclusive course of study of
the sort of goods the vast pink palace has
been built; to provide. As such the archi-
tecture is therefore thoroughly appropriate.
Nothing could be more apt.
Inside, the State provides even greater
wonders for its devotees. There is
not a square inch of its walls, ceil-
ings and corridors on which a fly could
walk without trending on some orna-
ment. The feet of the meanest person in
the land, provided he can dredge up the
necessary coin, will sink in the thick pile
carpet, and 50 ushers with a University edu-
cation will be waiting to show him to his
seat. Over his head will arch, not a cob-
webby dome, but a cunning representation of
the blue crystal of Heaven, with the stars
twinkling above him in exactly the same
positions as they are in the present month
in the real firmament outside. The weather
in that sky will never change, for fleecy
clouds will drift across it for ever. If the
BETTY RAE, one of Melbourne’s leading Rep n rtorians, who is
going to produce for the society in the absence of Frank
Clewlow.
patron gets tired of watching the facial ex-
pressions of Clara Bow he can turn his
attention to the Venus de Medici ensconced
in a niche—in fact, all the treasures _of
Grecian art, which, by the way, has nothing
to do with the art of Greek cooking as
practised in Little Bourke. On his right is
an ornate replica of the temple of Vesta, and
on liis left are more statues and cypresses
silhouetted against the painted sky. The
whole outfit, he may learn, is a faithful
reproduction of Hadrian’s villa; so, even if
he doesn’t pay income-tax, he can still solace
himself with the thought that his couple ot
bob place him on the same cultural and
artistic level as the masters of imperial
Borne. A triumph for democracy.
The entertainment provided is of the
same sensational kind. The great organ,
with its world-famous virtuoso wreathed in
smiles, rises like tooth-paste squeezed out
of a gigantic tube. Simultaneously the oU
musicians of the orchestra emerge from 45
feet below the level of the street as if they
were squatting on the back of a submarine.
The specially-imported conductor waves his
wand, and if what bursts forth is not music
as sundry narrow-minded pedants under-
stand the term, it is certainly the very latest
thing in jazz. As the sobbing organ, the
wheedling saxophone and the whimpering
flutes submerge the auditorium under wave
on treacly w T ave the lights go out, a ray
leaps across the theatre out of (i box shaped
like a Chinese temple, and Buster Keaton
waddles upon the screen.
Another theatre, stated to be as splendid
as and even more capacious than the State,
will open its mighty doors in a week s time.
It is said that each will have to take at least
£2OOO a week in order to pay—which means
that Melbourne will have to pay out an addi-
tional £lOO,OOO per annum for its amuse-
ment, unless other places of entertainment
are to go short. No doubt Melbourne will rise
to the occasion. When the present writer
was a boy he used to walk two miles to
see Tommy Hudson’s Surprise Party play
in a dingy little hall up a dark and insani-
tary lane. Tommy was regarded as a great
comedian, and he had a hypnotist who made
a girl swallow live snails. But those were
barbarous days. _ . ,
The bill at the State changed on Saturday
to Lon Chancy in “Laugh, Clown, Laugh,’
but to the crowds which are queuing from
10 in the morning two blocks deep on both
sides of Union Theatres’ remarkable gift, to
the Australian nation that is a minor con-
sideration. The moon-drenched skies (also
referred to as “star-drenched”), “the price-
less replicas of the most beautiful statues
in the world,” “the glorious blaze of eflul-
gent light,” are still the principal attrac-
tions. One architect, who had been away
from Melbourne for some time, is said to
have come upon the place suddenly and
immediately gone to sign the pledge, but this
is probably a lie spread by Union Theatres
rivals.
At any rate, this theatre and the talkies
coming together have hit the older theatres
hard. There is much talk of putting the
spruiker in- a new
uniform and giving
interiors a coat of
paint. But nothing
short of dressing
the programme-girls
in strings of beads
or lowering the
orchestra from the
roof is likely to
lure back the fan
who has once tasted
the glories of the
State. As for the
talkies, they con-
tinue to hold. On
Saturday the Audi-
torium decided on a
change of bill, but
at the Athenaeum
A 1 Jolson’s photo-
graph can still be
heard.
* *
Announced a s
the Prince’s favo-
rite band, Syd
Boy’s Lyric als
broke into the pro-
gramme at Mel-
bourne Tivoli last
week. If the claim
is correct, the rea-
son why grand
opera has to strug-
gle along in Lon-
don without royal
patronage is par-
ti all y explained.
The Syd Boys are
a group of English-
me n who play
American jazz.
There is nothing
extraordinary about
them. Dozens of
similar bands have
come direct from
t.lie original home
of jazz without the
royal imprimatur and proved as entertaining.
In Davey, the talkative juggler, the Tivoli
has lost one of the most spontaneous com-
edians it has had of late.
¥ ¥ #
This week Melbourne Bijou is meeting
the menace of the movies with Aleko and
I’anthea, described as Egyptian mind-readers
and illusionists. As an entertainment A.
and P. are about equal to a Salvation Army
meeting. In addition there is Nellie Kolle,
who sings, in a voice which might easily be
mistaken for a B.H.P. product, songs about
mother which find favor with her audience.
Frank Wilson, in some musical moments
which could easily be expanded at the expense
of some of the other turns, and Billy Andros,
a cartoonist whose patter fails to obscure
the fact that his art is the sort a thousand
editorial w.p.b.’s yawn for, comprise the first
part. The second part is brighter, being
given over to Bert Ray and liis latest revue.
* * *
On March 9, at the Royal, Hobart, theatre-
goers of the Speck will be given an oppor-
tunity of tasting
something entirely
new in theatrical
enterprise. It will
be the opening gun
of a season of in-
tellectual drama by
o company of Mel-
bourne artists,
directed by J.
Beresford Fowler.
Galsworthy’s “Win-
dows” will com-
mence the proceed-
ings and will be
followed by Noel
Coward’s “Vortex”
an d “T h e Ilat-
tr a p,” G. B.
Shaw’s “Mrs. War-
ren's Profession,”
“C andi d a” and
“Pygmalion,” and
Sudermann’s “Fires
of St. Jo h n.”
Hitherto Fowler
lias had to perform
his nefarious opera-
tions on a stage not
much bigger than a
packing-case and as
luxuriously fur-
nished as a country
election platform;
a n up - to - date
theatre should be
of great assistance.
In Mollie
Fowler has at least
one actress of pro-
fessional calibre.
* *
The most out-
standing thing
about c u r r eut
theatrical fare in
Syd ne y is the
absence of serious
drama. There is
not, and has not
been for months, a solitary show that would
pan out a pennyweight of dramatic content
to the square mile of verbiage. The offerings
in different ways are nearly all passable
enough entertainments, and at least one of
them, “The Patsy,” is uncommonly good of
its kind. But everything is in the feather-
weight class as far as emotional appeal goes.
In fact, as much drama is to be found in
single picture-shows as can be found in the
whole of the legit, lumped together.
Harborites who fancy something artistic-
ally above the tiresome mechanical cranking
of a “Wrecker” or the footling foolery of a
“Hit the Deck” should by now be in a mood
to give the pending concert and other
“serious” offerings a hungry hearing. The
first of the concert outbreaks will be pianist
Snivakovsk’ 1 ' at the Town Hall on Saturday.
Five hundred comfortable lounge-chairs are
being advertised as an attraction equal to the
pianist himself. They need not be very good
to be an improvement on the tragic things
that the rest of the audience will sit in.
Snivakovsky will also give concerts on March
12, 14 and 16, and on March 30 Erica
Morini, who has been called the “greatest
living woman violinist.” will give her first
concert at the same address.
Pavlova begins her Sydney season on April
13, and for some time in the meanwhile the
Firm is daring to offer a serious play, “Young
Woodley,” which will replace “The Patsy”
at the Criterion. At the Palace “New
Brooms” is closing down after a brief run.
It will be replaced on Saturday by “White
Collars,” a “comedy of a typist who married
fifteen million dollars and her employer,” as
the advertisements fearlessly describe it.
On Friday the Prince Edward changes
after a long run of talkies to “White
Shadows of the South Seas,” and the next
day the Regent will try out “In Old Ariz-
ona,” a long talkie. Business as usual else-
where.
With Rene Maxwell, John Priora, Lilian
Gibson and Alfred Cunningham singing
grand opera and the Tom Katz saxophonists
blowing well, there is plenty of musical
variety on the current Sydnev Tivoli bilk
Jack Barty, who looks loss like a comedian
and is more like one than anything the Tiv.
lias produced for months, the Reginald
Sharlands, the two Daveys and the Claude
de Car party add good measure of humor
to what is a tip-top entertainment pretty
well throughout.
* ¥ *
Milton’s Novelettes turned on a fresh tap
at Fullers’ on Saturday night. It proved
as cheerful as its predecessor and as lack-
ing in heady inebriation. The second part,
entitled “The Sultan of Ooyah,” might just
as well be called “The Bishop of Gosh for
all its application to what follows. There
is nothing in the show that may be said to
raise the virtuous blush on the cheek of
great-grandmamma in her bath-chair.
* V ¥
Nellie Bramley, reviving “The Third
Degree,” is playing to packed houses at
Brisbane Royal. Walter Pym is a new-
comer who adds strength to the eo. He
MARY MACGREGOR, the Brisbane girl who drives the dope-
running motor-car in “The Flying Squad” at Melb King's.
plavs the suffering husband to Miss Bram-
ley’s Mrs. Howard Jeffries, jun. The co,
thought of “The Sport of Kings” a bit late
to help anyone on to the Newmarket winner;
it will be staged next week.
* * *
The movie people are terribly fond of what
they call “presentations”—a trifle more fond
of them sometimes than are their audiences.
Presentations take various forms, but the
most popular is to rake up a squad of second-
rate actors, dress them in droshkys or vodkas
or crinolines or some such appropriate
national clobber of the place and period,
throw in a dud dancer or two, a spherical
tenor and a couple of hollow comedians, and
set them all talking, dancing and singing
around a camp-fire in front of a bit of badly-
painted snowscape. The notion is to create
by human means the atmosphere which is
appropriate to the picture. The result
achieved is usually exactly the opposite.
The movie people may be expert mathemati-
cians in the box-office, but they seldom seem
to realise that the art of the silent screen
is an art of only two. dimensions, and that
to introduce it with a slab of flesli-and-blood
drama only serves to emphasise its limita-
tions, while destroying its sole charm, the
atmosphere of romantic unreality. Recently
a presentation took the form of a scene out
of the film—a dinner with the Borgias.
After the local actors had done their turn
it took many minutes for the mind to accom-
modate itself to the set of yoiceless spectres
which succeeded.
On the other hand, some presentations are
worth-while entertainments, regardless of
their dubious relations to the picture. One,
at the Capitol, Melbourne, at present, com-
prises an excellent performance of Tschai-
kowsky’s 1812 overture, by a nearly-full
orchestra. For the benefit of those who
require tlieir music to be annotated, a tableau
of the burning of Moscow accompanies the
playing and the final bust-up of the city,
whose architecture looks as if it deserved
it, is a very skilfully-managed spectacle. On
the whole, however, presentations are tedious
excrescences on the average film programme.
An unrelated bit of vaudeville would probably
prove more acceptable. Anyhow, now that
the screen has found its tongue, it will pro-
bably make itself more and more independent
of the living actor, who can then get on
with his more important and dignified job
of restoring the prestige of the legitimate
theatre.


The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company, Limited.
Founded 1886.
Assets at 31st December, 192 7,
£18,567,527,
of which 85% was represented by
Public Securities.
The M.L.C. Charter is constituted to
admit of the issue of policies to meet
the necessities of every class, every age,
every purse. Its range of contracts is
unsurpassed for diversity and liberality,
and the fulfilment of every contract is
guaranteed by the Company’s capital
and its ever-increasing assurance Funds.
CASH SURPLUS in the Ordinary
Branch for the year 1927, £609,330.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
Head Office: Citizens’ Building, Castlereagfc
Street and Martin Place, Sydney.
Who Will Manage Your Estate?
At all times when an individual is appointed as Executor or Trustee
the uncertainty of human life is present. Who is better qualified to
administer your Estate than the
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED.
It cannot die, travel or disappear; has had over 40 years' experience
in the management of all classes of Estates, and offers as security the
whole of its capital and assets —over £1,000,000.
Our Explanatory Booklet will be
sent to you Post Free on Request.
THOS. BUOKLAND
JAMES MOIR
DIRECTORS:
F. N. YARWOOD
(Chairman)
O. E. FRIEND
Lt.-Col. T. F. RUTLEDGE
J. W. Barnes, Manager.
E. V. T. Whittle, Asst. Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
w
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
City Mutual Life.
Writ- Added to
ten Assurance
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Fund.
£ £ £ £ £
1900 . . 55,713 24,450 16,265 1,950 13,048
1905 .. 70,242 27,515 15,015 1,971 25,141
1910 .. 121,588 39,352 28.961 7,388 45,887
1915 .. 230,727 107,188 33,740 9,029 80,770
1917 .. 282,008 142,900 41,105 2,271 95,732
1918 .. 339,743 149,279 51,450 581 138,427
1919 .. 392,530 150,210 55,829 0,400 180,019
1920 . . 404,079 158,487 70,134 005 234.793
1921 .. 570,065 198,003 78,755 11,488 281,319
1922 .. 641,593 231,764 81,292 5,977 322,560
1923 .. 715,179 206,200 79,765 12.030 357,178
1924 .. 809,039 292,241 83,115 4,013 429,070
1925 .. 867,172 339,306 90,190 25,912 411,704
1920 .. 980,372 371,455 98,364 2,410 508,143
1927 ..1,094,045 441,048 110,904 11,488 523,945
1928 . . 1,223,304 516,202 120,903 53,351 520,848
“George Crowley’s Company,” now in its
50th year, is the youngster of the live big
Australian mutual offices. It gathers all
its income in the Commonwealth, but writes
no Industrial business. For tin* greater part
of its life it lagged behind in the race, but
of recent years has stepped more briskly
along the path. In the last seven years
the management has more than doubled the
society’s income as it stood after 43 years
of effort.
Actual revenue is not quite so good as the
figures in the table suggest. Last year, for
instance, £259,865 of cash bonuses were de-
clared, and 93.3 p.c. (£250,208) of these —
about the same proportion as in the two pre-
ceding years—remained in the business to buy
additional insurance. The two amounts are
included with claims and income respectively.
The bonuses declared last year were 40.9 p.c.
of the net premium income (£635,128), ex-
cluding annuities (£13,600), compared with
40.4 p.c. in the preceding term and 33.7 p.c.
in 1924. Leaving out of account the year’s
undrawn cash bonuses, gatherings totalled
£973,156, of which claims called for £266,054,
xes. took £126,903, and, after appropriat-
ing £53,351 for contingencies, superannua-
tion, etc., £526,848 remained to further
strengthen the life fund. But owing to the
decision of both Federal and State Govern-
ments to tax the investment income of life
offices, which means that the amount of taxa-
tion now paid by mutual offices will be multi-
plied by three or more, and, therefore, likely
to have an effect upon the future rate of
bonuses, the board decided to provide for
the contingency by earmarking £lOO,OOO for
the equalisation of bonuses. Last year the
society paid £30,175 in income taxes, trustee
and license fees. Much of its progress of
recent years is due to the bonuses it has
paid. At the beginning of this century the
office charged practically non-profit rates,
but, later, these were revised and margins
allowed for bonuses.
Last year the increase in the new busi-
ness put on the books was less than half the
previous year’s increase; but the average
per policy advanced £3l, reaching the excep-
tionally high figure of £566; it was £5lO in
1923. and only £165 in 1911. Of course,
owing to the shrinkage in the value of our
paper money, the increase doesn’t mean all
it would have meant a few years ago.
The next comparison shows how new and
renewal premiums have stepped along, and
gives a rough idea of how the business clings:
Renewal First Now
Premiums. Premiums. Assurances.
1910 .. .. £71,987 £21,771 £537,300
1915 .. .. 115,628 32,610 804,614
1920 .. .. 215,103 84,771 1,998,906
1922 .. .. 291.719 76,967 2,194,076
1923 .. .. 338,420 65,453 1.964,583
1924 .. .. 371,934 .66,427 2,025,000
1925 .. .. 400,432 74,642 2,436,056
1926 .. .. 453,599 74,825 2,482,000
1927 .. .. 488,570 90,311 2,857,000
1928 .. .. 546,152 89,697 3,023,000
Owing to the large proportion of whole-of-
life policies written, last year’s first pre-
miums were actually less than those for
the previous term. The year’s renewals were
only £32,729 less than renewals plus new
premiums in 1927. The figures represent
the co.’s very small loss in income through
maturities, lapses and surrenders. Lapses
(£29.552) were £7255 heavier, but surrenders
(£16,359) were £3745 lighter.
Cutting the cash bonuses out of the cal-
culation, exes, took 13 p.c. of the year’s
total income compared with 13.4 p.c. and
12.4 p.c. in the two preceding years. Their
ratio to net premium income was 19.5, 19.9
and 18.4 p.c. back to 1926. As for new
business, assuming that it is ten times more
expensive than old, last year’s first premiums
were gathered at a cost of 84.3 p.c. as against
65 p.c. and 82.7 p.c. in 1927 and 1926
respectively. But since the society’s invest-
ments call for special care and attention,
the actual new business cost-rate is probably
not so great as the figures suggest.
Lately the office has scored heavily oh its
investments. For the 12 months to Dec. 31
they turned in £324,428, a leap of £40,944
as against a spring of £24,760 in the pre-
vious term. In 191 S the return was only
£64,755.
When figuring liabilities under policies the
office assumes that its funds will earn the
standard rate of 34 p.c. Last year the re-
turn on the average was 6.8 p.c., and that
followed 6.6, 6.9, 6.3 and 8 p.c. back to 1923
• —profits on sales are included in the calcula-
tions. The maintenance of a high rate of
earning, which, amongst other things, means
a continuance of the board’s present invest-
ment policy, must mean good bonuses despite
the threatened effects of taxation.
At Dec. 31 the assurance fund stood at
£4,840,679; other reserves, including the
superannuation fund (£20,000), totted up to
£225,950. All that and some liabilities made
a balance-sheet total of £5,138,029, which
was invested in this way
1918. p.c. 1928. p.c.
Public securities ..£198,150 10.0 £827,007 10.1
Mortgages .. .. 503,505 45.6 2,905,298 57.7
Loans on policies.. 121,>13 9.8 528,009 10.3
Properties . . .. 250,059 20.8 373,800 7.3
Shares & debentures, etc. 37,450 3.0 229,910 4.5
Cush and sundries .. 58,827 4.8 212,679 4.1
There is nothing wrong with investment in
loans so long as the security is watched, and
there is little doubt about that in this case.
The enterprise of the managing director,
George Crowley, is commanding much more
attention than curiosity these days. A few
years ago, among his thousand other depar-
tures from the conventional, he bought land
for the company and successfully established
a golf-links at Ryde, near Sydney. Last
year £56,131 was added to tin' book value of
freeholds, making them £373,806.
Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co.
r Dividend To Re-
Dec., Loss. Prefs. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1927.. 38,754 10,898 Nil 08,901
Profit. Reserves.
1928.. 130,880 24,000 Nil 106,880 37,919
This Australian offshoot of the big Goodyear
Tyre and Rubber Co., Ohio, U.S.A., stepped
into a ready-made business with a line good-
will a couple of years ago. The parent had
sot up an importing subsidiary here in 1915,
and a lot of business was steadily won there-
after. Things continued that way until 1926.
when, owing to pressure of the tariff, the
parent decided to manufacture in the Com-
monwealth. Thus the present co. was
formed, and it swallowed the business and
assets of the old subsidiary as from Jan. 1,
1927. Goodwill was given no value in the
books, the parent took up a round half-mil-
lion in ords. for cash, and the Australian
public was offered 300,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs.,
which were quickly snapped up, and no time
was lost in making a start.
To begin with, a 20-acre freehold was
bought at Granville, near Sydney, and a fac-
tory put up. Production commenced in
November, 1927; meanwhile, the co. con-
tinued to import its manufactured stocks.
Trading for the first half of 1927 showed a
profit, but tariff increases and successive cuts
in retail prices brought about a loss of
£38,754 on the first year’s operations. In
addition £13,309 of preliminary and estab-
lishment exes, were capitalised.
There was no trouble about winning busi-
ness ; indeed, the difficulty appeared to be
to cope with the volume that came forward.
No sooner was the factory got into proper
working order than extensions had to be
made to both premises and plant. Then, in
January, 1928, the co.’s Vic. business was
passed over to a subsidiary, the Good-
year Tyre and Rubber Co. of Australasia
Pty., Ltd., in which it owns all the shares.
Accounts for the 12 months to Dec. 31 last
include the new Vic. subsidiary’s figures.
The year’s operations resulted in a spring
of £292,453 in gross profits (£329,077) ; exes.
(£198,196), after making provision for taxa-
tion and depreciation, took £122,818 of the
increase; thus the net Tesult was £130,880.
The pref. requirements called for £24,000
of that, the balance being no less than 21.2
p.c. on the ordinary capital. But no ordinary
div. was paid; instead, the accumulated
deficit was wiped out and the co. begins the
present term with £37,919 of reserves.
Considering the difficulties, chief of which
was the collapse of the rubber market fol-
lowing the scrapping of the Stevenson restric-
tion scheme, the co. made an extraordinarily
good showing. By careful buying the man-
agement was able to restrict losses on rubber
stocks. These (both raw and manufactured)
were taken in at cost or market price, and
are £67,734 heavier than at the previous
balance. A lot depends upon whether stocks
have been written back sufficiently, and
appearances are that they have been.
That and other movements are visible in
this comparison of balance-sheet figures: —
1927. 1928.
Pref. capital .. . • .. £300,000 £300,000
Ord. capital .. * • •. 500,000 500,000
Owing parent co. .. .. 115,515 141,693
Other liabilities .. .. 8,572 8,182
Freeholds and buildings .. 160,672 218,656
Plant etc .. • • 238,198 248,830
Stocks ' 256,409 324,143
Book debts .. .. •. 141,024 207,014
Cash, etc 69,902 37,246
The year's extensions, which gave 80 p.c.
more floor space at the factory, added
£57,984 to the book value of freeholds, etc.,
but plant was up only £10,632. During the
year the co. tacked £26,178 on to its debt
to the parent, raising the total to £141,693,
and a few thousand pounds were coming to
sundry creditors. The financial position,
however, was very comfortable. Book debts,
up £65,990, reflect the year’s brisker trad-
ing. Altogether total liquids (£565,403, in-
cluding stocks) showed an increase of
£101,068 over the previous year’s figure, and
the more or less liquid surplus (£418,528)
was £77,514 stronger.
The public is interested only in the prefs.,
which carry a cumulative 8 p.c. and have
priority as to capital, but participate no
further in profits or assets. The backing
amounts to £2 15s. lid. per share in net
tangibles, and last year’s profit was nearly
six times their annual div. requirements. A
year ago they could be picked up at 215.;
now the price has strengthened to 245. The
return at that figure is 6.7 p.c.; thus the
market places the scrip in the first line of
industrial pref. issues.
Squatting Investment Co. (Melb.).
Added to Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1918 .. 24,157 8J p.c. = 24,334 189
1919 .. 14,861 5 „ „ 14,600 261 450
1920 .. 4,606 lj „ „ 4,860 90
1921 9,842 31 „ „ 9,733 109 199
1922 .. 41,700 10 „ ~ 29,200 12,600 12,699
1923 . . 29,050 10 ~ „ 29,201 12,548
Assets written down .. £146,002
1924 .. 69,976 30 p.c. = 43,801 16,175 28,723
1925 .. 32,991 20 „ „ 29,201 3,790 32,513
1926 . . 28,617 20 „ „ 29,201 31,929
1927 .. 21,751 20 „ „ 29,201 24,479
1928 . . 18,545 13J „ „ 19,467 23,557
This co. lias been a runowner in sou’-west
Queensland for close on half a century, but
until wool prices took their post-war leap
it never got much out of the business. Divs.
averaged 44 per cent, for the 23 years to
1923, and that was only possible because
no provision was made for depreciation of
improvements and wastage of leases—these
latter expire in 1934 and their renewal is
doubtful. Distributions to shareholders,
therefore, were in part a return of capital.
In 1923 the board decided to treat those por-
tions of the divs. which it called “bonus”
in this way, and, after the uncalled 10s. per
share had been cancelled, half the amount
paid up was struck off, leaving the scrip with
a face value of 30s, The accounts were
balanced by striking £146,002 off the book
value of the leases, reducing them to £72,977
at Dec. 31, 1924. They had been worked
down to £54.469 at the close of accounts
in 1927; and 11s. of the 275. per share
handed out for the four years to that date
was labelled bonus.
Last year the position changed completely,
the co. taking a new lease of life. In
August the board bought Quantambone and
Bundabulla stations, together with approxi-
mately 76,736 sheep, 70 cattle and 55 horses,
from R. H. Meares and Pearson for £275,000.
A couple of months previously the proper-
ties had _ been passed in at £241,000. The
two stations, which are situated near Bre-
warrina, are worked as one; they comprise
10,699 acres freehold and approximately
365,835 acres N. S. Wales Western Land
leases, expiring in 1943.
Since the sheep oh the new properties were
delivered off shears the co.’s 1928 clip got
no benefit from the recent purchases. The
year’s shearing on the Queensland runs
yielded 1850 bales greasy and 37 scoured,
which was 11 and 221 bales respectively
lighter than the previous year’s pressing.
Partly because of this and partly because
the price of the staple eased, the return from
wool (£44,508) fell away £9llB. But an
extra £13,049 was gathered from the sale
of live stock (£17,464). Against that £4205
was added to the charge for depreciation
(£10,947), but no provision was visibly made
for taxation, whereas £9274 was so set aside
in the previous year. After allowing for
these and other movements in the p. and 1.
account, the year’s net result from the
squatting business improved £2220. The
1927 profits, by the way, include a liquida-
tion payment of £5426 from Bawra.
The new freehold cost £8024 and lease-
hold £156,761. Thus, after allowing for the
writing off and £1234 spent on improvements
the book value of the co.’s runs (£210,134)
increased £155.665 during the year. Live
stock, up £115,671, was in at a conserva-
tive £155,366. To represent that figure
there were 176,747 sheep, 130 cattle and 333
horses at Dec. 31. llow the various pur-
chases were financed is seen in this next
comparison of balance-sheet figures: —
1924. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Capital .. £146,002 £146,002 £146,002 £243,338
Liabilities .. 912 581 671 96,923
Stations, plant,
etc. . . 78,743 65,792 59,820 218,661
Sheep, cattle,
horses .. 45,230 52,071 39,695 155,366
Wool unsold.. 810 2,565 2,200 1,008
Cash, etc. .. 109,789 86,951 102,906 3,379
Shareholders put up £97,336 of new capi-
tal, making the amount paid up £243,338 in
162,225 shares of 30s. each. The Jjoard
went to its bankers for £37,585 and £58,667
was tacked on to the amount coming to sun-
dry creditors (£59,338). Liquids were drawn
upon for the balance. The more or less
liquid surplus, including live stock, was
£62,830 when the last balance was struck.
At the close of next accounts a div. of 4s.
per share (13J p.c.) will call for £32.445. or
£13,900 more than was netted last year, To
earn it the co. will have, weather permitting,
the wool from more than double the number
of sheep shorn in 1928 and an increased re-
turn from the sale of livestock due to a good
lambing. The weather, of course, is the
chief factor governing the immediate out-
look, and already there has been some hand
feeding on the N. S. Wales properties. The
rainfall on these since the co. took over has
been 14 inches, the total for 1928 being
about two inches below the general average
of over 15 inches. The position will become
serious failing rain within the next two
months, the board says.
The market considers the risks and pays
375. for 30s. shares. After allowing for the
div. that return at the current price is 11.4
p.c. on a 13.3 p.c. div. basis. The backing
amounts to 325. lid. in net tangibles, nearly
all of it represented by leasehold and a trifle
of freehold.
Pelaco, Ltd. (Melb.).
, Dividends
A B
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. Written
Dee., Profit. 7 p.c. 9 p.c. 124 P-c. Off. Deficit
£ £ £ £ £ £
1918.. 15,131 2092 1406 5,000 1053 12,788
15 p.c.
1919.. 26,181 2082 £Bl2 7,718 1284 ,503
Reserves.
1920.. 29,455 2082 3656 8,766 2165 12,283
Loss. Deficit.
1921.. 14,473 2082 4500 Nil 8,772
Profit. 10 p.c.
1922.. 20,518 2082 4500 10,724 6,560
1923.. 24,723 2082 4500 14,908 2,327
Reserves.
1924.. 30,551 2082 4500 16,500 5,142
8 p.c.
1925.. 25,367 2082 4500 13,200 10,727
1926. . 21,692 2082 4500 13,200 12,637
4 p.c*.
1927.. 15,070 2082 4500 6,600 14,525
1928.. 6,966 2082 4500 Nil 14,909
The figures of this Melbourne co., which
manufactures shirts, pyjamas and other
men’s wear, have not been moving right of
late. It took over the business of Pearson,
Law, Ltd., in 1911, and, after a few years
of struggle, made extraordinary progress
under the protection which war conditions
gave. The div. climbed from 7 p.c. in 1914
to 15 p.c. in 1919, and the same rate was
repeated in the next year. Meanwhile, re-
serves only £12,283 in excess of goodwill
(£10,000) had been accumulated to assist
£122,236 of paid capital. Nevertheless the
slump in 1921, which resulted in a loss of
£14,473, left the accounts with no inherent
weakness as far as the eye could see; and
in 1923 £55,000 of new capital was
got in (making the total paid up £244,736 )
to finance expansion of the business.
Some idea of what has happened can be
gathered from the movements in gross pro-
fits, which need to be considered in relation
to net profits shown in the table above: —
1920 .. £89,659 I 1925 .. £124,421
1921 .. 49,849 | 1926 .. 118,090
1923 .. 111,631 | 1927 .. 125,167
1924 . . 126,008 I 1928 .. 105,461
Earnings reached their peak in 1924. Since
then acute competition in the soft-goods
trade, made worse by the liquidation of
some cos. and the forced reduction of stocks
in others, has cut deeply in this co.’s turn-
over and profits. Notwithstanding this turn-
over was pushed up £48,000 in 1927, and
gross profits benefited by £7077. To do
this a vigorous sales offensive was launched
and prices cut; thus the net result fell away
£6622, and the ords. were passed over in
the final distribution.
Last year the co. had to bear extra bur-
dens. Early in the term the piece-work sys-
tem, under which 98 p.c. of the staff worked,
and had done for the past 16 years, had
to be suddenly scrapped in consequence of
an Arbitration Court award; also 10 p.c.
was added to the wages bill. The board took
prompt action to deal with the difficulties,
and a cut of £11,602 was made in the year’s
exes. (£98,495). But it was not deep enough;
exes, consumed 93.4 p.c. of the gross profit
compared with 88.6, 81.6, 79.6 and 75.7 p.c.
back to 1924. That was mainly because
trade depression, which resulted in smaller
turnovers generally, followed close on the
heels of increased production costs. The net
result was no better than 2.9 p.c. on paid


w
Geological Survey.
Y/4
'/A
'//.
Dome Structure.
Plant
Geological Survey
Thorough, complete and proven by two 2-inch diamond
drills to 1666 feet, showing natural gas and 30
feet of coal.
Dome Structure
Of all structures, undoubtedly the best in the Common-
wealth, with an impervious cover which is necessary for
the oil to be retained. And a perfect dome structure
is essential for the accumulation of oil.
Plant
The finest Percussion Oil Drilling Plant ever landed in
Australia, supplied by Vickers, Armstrongs Ltd., and
supervised by Dr. Arthur Wade.
Driller
Mr. L. McKillop, late of the Anglo-Persian Oil Company,
is famed as one of the world’s most experienced drillers.
The future of Coal is in carbonisation and the extraction
of its valuable by-products. Belford has 371,000,000
tons of the finest Greta Coal at workable depths, particu-
larly suitable for production of petrol, etc.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
Write, call, 'phone or fill in and post coupon to Belford Dome,
Ltd., for brochure giving full particulars.
The Second List closes April 15—early application is imperative.
&
O
*0
<O. P \
%
V \o,
•2* ' %>
Xs \®£
p \
x V c
X£ V x®i
°r \4,
%. 'X
o>«
cx \<&
Bulletin 6/3/’29.
BELFORDDOME
Brook House,
17 O’Connell St
Sydney.
’Phone: 85338.
Temple Court,
422-28 Collins St.,
Melbourne.
’Phone: F 5445.
Belfort! is in the famous Hunter Valley,
near Singleton, N.S.W., on the Great North-
ern Line, only 38 miles from Newcastle.


Are Your Invest-
ments ROCKY?
MORE THAN HALF
OF ALL REGISTERED
COMPANIES FAIL.
<r
ONLY THE EXPERT
CAN READ THE SIGNS
Australia’s leading ex-
pert is
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
MARCH NUMBER NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY. 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or “Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock 4- GP + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams k Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth. — Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
4c * * *
On every point of Pioneer Wood Pipe
is unrivalled for fluid conveyance. Its initial low
cost, simplicity and economy of installation and long
life free of maintenance charges are features that
cause experienced engineers to recommend its adop-
tion. Being absolutely non-corroding and impervious
to all fungus growths, Pioneer maintains full-bore
capacity at all times. Send for illustrated booklet.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay
Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W T .;
and at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
4c jjc ' * *
W. Soren Jensen, late Mt. Morgan G. M. Co.,
Consulting Mining Engineer, 33 Boyle Street, Cre-
morne, Sydney. Box 220 D, G.P.0., Sydney. Tel.
Y 1557. — Advt.
4c # * 4c
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
4. 4C *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coi.usoN & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
4c 4c * 4"
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
4:4c * 4c
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lift*
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
MAY’S BROADCAST FERTILISER SPREADER
I If/?
mi
w
To Farmers and Graziers
The season is now approaching for
top-dressing your lands, and here
is the Ideal Machine for the job.
Spreads up to 40ft. 50-100 acres
per day.
SIMPLE—CHEAP—EFFECTIVE.
PRICE: £2l net f.o.r. Sydney.
For use with Spring Cart.
£2 extra for Motor-lorry attachments.
Call and Inspect. AGENTS WANTED.
AGENTS:
GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney.
INSURE WITH THE
1
Australian General
Insurance Company Ltd.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres.
capital compared with G.l, S.S. 10.3 and
12.4 p.c. back to 1024. The 16906 of profit
claimed was only £384 more than the two
lots of prefs. called for, so the ords. went
hungry.
That the management is alive to the diffi-
culties is plain from the movements of
balance-sheet figures:—
1923. 1925. 1927. 1928.
Capital . . £244,736 £244,736 £244,736 £244,736
Liabilities .. 192,916 156,345 237,849 161,337
Premises . . 127,027 120,592 116,929 110,333
Plant, etc. . . 63,552 69,328 77,328 73,730
Book debts . . 87,290 103,143 124,692 104.974
Stock.. .. 167,129 129,280 182,202 134,109
Cash, etc. . . 1,868 4,356 3,250 2,756
The heavy debt, which had grown to £237,549
in 1927, was worked down £76,512 last year
—£42.910 was clipped off the overdraft
(£99.934) and £33,602 off the amount coming
to trade creditors (£61,403). The drop of
£19.718 in book debts reflects the year’s
duller trading; the reduction of £48,093 in
stocks suggests that tlie plant has slowed
down or that stocks are more conservatively
valued—a combination of the two is probably
near the truth. Stocks are in at cost and
valuation, and much depends upon that. The
more or less liquid surplus (£86,502) was
£8207 stronger than at the previous balance.
On fixed assets £.10,194 more had been
written off than was spent during the year.
llow the current year is going to pan out
is difficult to say. But prospects are much
more encouraging than they were 12 months
ago. Piece work was reintroduced as from
Jan. 1. and trade brightened a little toward
the close of accounts. Much will depend
upon the extent to which turnover can be
livened and exes, kept in hand.
Paid capital is in 29,736 A 7 p.c. cum.
prefs., 50,000 B 9 p.c. cum. prefs. all of £1
each and 330,000 10s. ords. The prefs. have
'priority as to capital and dividend and rank
in the order stated. On the market the A
shares are priced around par. the B’s at
about 225. and the ords. at Ys. 6d. The
backing amounts to £8 14s. Bd., £4 11s. lid.
and 10s. lid. per share respectively. At the
current, price the return on the B shares is
8.2 p.c.
National Mutual Life.
At Sept. 30 last the actuary made the
nineteenth triennial overhaul of the asso-
ciation’s liabilities under its policies. The
results disclose continued progress and
ampU margins in all matters upon which
the soundness of a life office depends. This
is the position as the actuary disclosed it
at the last three investigations:—
Assurance Net Triennial Bonuses
Sept., Fund. Liability. Surplus. Declared.
£ & & £
1922.. 16,557,695 14,882,160 1,705,499 1,455.499
1925.. 22,607,250 21,021,102 2,569,493 2,118.974
1928.. 29,147,330 28,011,304 3,431,655 3,013,518
The sum assured at Sept. 30 last was
£85.760,096 compared with £69,002.237 and
£51.819 832 at the two preceding valuations.
Chief interest centres in a drop in the
rate of interest which it is now assumed
the funds will have to earn in the future.
The rate lias been cut back one-half of one
per cent., making it 3 p.c.; thus providing
for fat bonuses in the future, and against
the possibility of a shrinkage in the actual
rate of interest realised, which averaged
£5 14s. 2d. over the last three years as
against £5 13s. in the preceding three and
£5 ss. 7d. in the three before that. Under
the reversionary bonus system each suc-
cessive bonus, when declared, has a higher
reserve value than its predecessors when they
were declared; lienee the necessity for widen-
ing surpluses in the future. The method of
valuing by a low rate of interest meets
this need by locking up during the early
years of a policy sums which otherwise
would be revealed as divisible surplus and
by releasing them with interest at a later
stage.
On a 31 p.c. basis the net liability under
policies at Sept. 30 was £26.776 986; thus
yielding at that date a surplus of £2.370.344,
making the total net surplus for the three
years £3,431,655, of which £3,013,518 pro-
vided bonuses to policy-holders with a rever-
sionary value of approximately £4.900 000.
The £418.137 that remained and £816.181
brought forward from the previous investi-
gation, together £1,234,318, was earmarked
to provide for the change to a 3 p.c. basis
of valuation at Sept. 30.
Another effect of the change is that it
trenches upon the loading allowed for ex-
penses, etc. At the 1925 investigation the
margin allowed was 18.5 P.c. ; it was re-
duced to 15.2 p.c. at. Sept. 30 last. For the
12 months to that date exes, consumed 12
p.c. of the premium income (£3.446,369).
including £608.079 of single premiums and
£30.292 for annuities. Compared with total
income exes, consumed onlv £8 Bs. p.c. last
year as against £9 16s. 2d. p.c. in 1922.
Moreover the mortalitv rate for the last
three years was only 58 p.c. of the expec-
tation ; it was a shade under 70 p.c. and 65
p.c. in the two preceding valuation periods.
The association, by the way. gathers about
one-third of its annual income outside Aus-
tralia.
The Big Rubber Merger.
After nearly 12 months of negotiations the
Perdriau Co. has agreed to amalgamate its
interest with the Dunlop Co., which recently
bought over 400,000 of the 550.000 £1 ords.
in the Barnet Glass Co. at 325. each. Dun-
lops is to change its name to the Dunlop-
Perdriau Rubber Co., Ltd. The basis of the
amalgamation is the issue to Perdriau share-
holders of 1,540.000 ords. and 410.000 10
p.c. cum. prefs., all of £1 each, in the new
co. Perdriau’s paid capital is £1,205,543
in £1 shares —50,000 7 p.c. cum. prefs.,
100,000 S p.c. cum. prefs., 804,452 ords. fully
paid and 502,782 ords. paid to 10s. each.
Reserves at June 30 last were £303,389 in
excess of the £15,000 at which goodwill
figured in the books. The new co. thus
pays (in scrip) £159,377 more than the
net tangible value of Perdriau’s assets —
revalued for the purposes of the merger—
at .Tune 30, 1928. That is after allowing
for £251,391 of uncalled capital being got in.
First a final div. of about 2s. sd. on each
Perdriau fully-paid ord. (equal to 16.7 p.c.
p.a.) is to be paid for the nine months to
March 31. The 10s. paid ords. will be
treated proportionately, and the prefs. will
get their usual rates. Then, apparently, the
Perdriau contributing ords. are to be cnlbd
up to 20s. After that for every 100 shares held
in Perdriau co. the ords. will be entitled to
take up 21.2 10 p.c. cum. prefs. and 117.8 ords.
in the Dunlop-Perdrinu Co.; the 7 p.c. prefs.
are to get 84 10 p.c. cum prefs. in the new
co., and the 8 p.c. prefs are to receive 90
new 10 p.c, prefs. _
Assuming that the Dunlop-Perdriau Co.
pays the anticipated 10 p.c. ord. div., the
present holder of 100 Perdriau ords. will
received approximately £l3 18s. in divs. as
against £l2 10s. in the old co The owner
of 100 7 p.c. prefs. will get £8 Bs. in divs.
as against £7 previously, and the holder of
a similar number of 8 p.c. prefs. will get
£9 ns against £B.
When all the new shares have been issued
to the Perdriau co. paid capital in the Dun-
lop-Perdriau co. will be £4,420,055, of 'which
£930,000 will be 10 p.c. cum. prefs. That
is apart from any shares that may be issued
in connection with the Barnet Glass pur-
chase. The latter co.’s shareholders were
given the option of buying one Dunlop ord.
at 255. for every two of their own shares
sold.
New Guinea Gold and Osmiridium, which
was floated to acquire properties on the New
Guinea goldfields over two years ago, dis-
posed of its interests to a London formation,
New Guinea Gold and Exploration, on a
share basis. The latter co. later decided to
hand over its interests to Edie Goldfields, a
co. connected with the .proposed big merger
of N.G. holdings which is being fathered in
London by Leslie Urquliart, this transfer
being also on a share basis. Shareholders
of N. G. G. and 0., who were allotted seven
Exploration shares for eight held, found
themselves in a tangle over the transactions,
and there were many heartburnings. Now that
a representative of Urquliart here is prepared
to consider the purchase of Osmiridium’s
holdings in Exploration, holders of the origi-
nal Osmiridium shares of 2s. 6d. each have
decided to negotiate for the sale of the ss.
shares in Exploration on the basis of one
£1 share in Edie Goldfields for two ss. shares
in Exploration.
* * * *
New Moon Co., Bendigo, expects the erec-
tion of plant and poppet-heads to be com-
pleted in six weeks’ time, and that produc-
tion will commence about a fortnight later.
Stone is to be taken from three levels —260,
325 and 410 feet—and will be crushed at the
State battery at Eaglehawk.
❖ * * Jfc
Dr. Stillwell, who was loaned by the
Commonwealth to the Westralian State Gov-
ernment, has just furnished an illuminating
report on Kalgoorlie geology and ore de-
posits. The scope of future mining on the
field, he says, is restricted at depth on the
eastern side of the main belt —Oroya Links,
Kalgurlie Associated and Lake View are
situated here—by unfavorable geological
conditions, and northerly from the western
side of the Golden Mile towards Kalgoorlie
for a similar reason. The southern limits
in depth of the western lodes, which course
through the Boulder, Ivanhoe, Horseshoe
and Chaffers, are thought not to have been
reached yet, and he thinks that the main
hope for the future discovery of a now
producing area in depth lies to the south
and west of the main mining area in this
part of the field. At present little mining,
either shallow or deep, is being done there.
The report adds that composite plans of
the field show considerable areas of in-
sufficiently prospected ground, and that pro-
specting within the limits of the Golden
Mile gives hope of the discovery of fair
quantities of ore.
* * * *
Golden Horseshoe’s dump, one of the hu-
gest on Kalgoorlie’s Golden Mile, has been
estimated by Duncan McAulay and another
expert to contain nearly two million tons,
worth slightly over Bs. 3d. a ton. They
further estimate that on the basis of a plant
treating 35,000 to 40,000 tons a month a
50 per cent, recovery should be made at a
cost of approximately 2s. 6d. a ton. Allow- ,
ing £40,000 for cost of treatment plant, this
would leave a profit of over £lOO,OOO.
* * * *
Hampton Properties, Ltd., of which little
is heard nowadays, had a roll up of share- :
holders in Edinburgh recently. The directors
have been trying to induce a couple of London .
finance concerns to take a hand in the further
development of the co.’s doubtful Hampton
Plains show (W.A.). Chief hope appears to
rest on a report by H. E. \ ail, of Lake
View-Star.
* * * *
Gt. Boulder (W.A.) continues to keep
abreast of the mill. The tonnage treated last
year just about equalled that developed, and
as much payable ore is bbing opened up as
is being crushed. Returns indicate that costs
and profit for 192 S will approximate those
for the previous year.
* * * *
When Ratrut Basin’s old dredge set in on
the now property at Siclion. the stiff, boul-
dery clay was a drawback. The extra expense
thus incurred, together with that entailed
by No. 2 plant, has necessitated the issue
of £70,000 debentures of £1 each, bearing
interest at 20 p.c. p.a. Commitments include
£30,000 of first debentures, due in 1930;
advances £20.000, half repayable next Sep-
tember, and the balance in 1930; the com-
pletion of the new dredge will call for a
further £15.000 or so. The new debentures
will be redeemable within five years from
date of issue by annual payments of £14,000
each. They are secured by a trust deed
which constitutes a first charge on the co.’s
assets, including uncalled capital.. The new
money is wanted at 10s. each application and
allotment. Interest is payable half-yearly.
When the up-to-date No. 2 dredge shortly
sets in, the outlook is certain to improve
considerably.
* * * *
Takuapa, which has been off the dividend
list for some time, is back again with a
Is. div., payable March 30. The new dredge,
which began operations in October last, has
been getting good results; No. 1 has also
worked into high-quality ground. Never a
very rich proposition, Takuapa has years of
life ahead of it, and with tin at anything
near the £220 mark should cause its share-
holders no sleepless nights. The manage-
ment is conservative.
H: * * *
Shareholders in New Pliin Soon were re-
cently told by F. F. Munro, who had spent
some time in Siam looking into matters, that
he managed to get £12,000 knocked off the
old co.’s debt and bought the mine ' for
£24.500. Also he made it clear that control
would be from the Sydney end. A secretary
was to be sent out with definite instructions.
Some 28,000 of the new 6s. shares have been
left on the co.’s hands; these are now offered
at par, one for four, though shareholders
might apply for any number, allotment being
at the discretion of the directors.
* !> * ' *
Alluvial Tin, which recently went into
voluntary liquidation, having sold its assets
at a handsome profit, has been reborn
with a capital of £2OOO in £1 shares. The
original co. had a capital of £50,000, of which
only £20,000 was issued and fully paid up.
It was incorporated less than six years ago,
and has been one of the outstanding
successes of Australian mining ventures.
The new co., like the first, will be a pros-
pecting and holding co., chiefly in connec-
tion with tin mining in Malaya or elsewhere
On the board are F. G. Pratten (chairman
of the original co.), H. G. Pratten and F.
G. Pratten, junior.
❖ ❖ H* sfc
Malayan Tin returns for February average
much the same as for the previous month
and for the last quarter of 1928, though
there are one or two improvements. Of the
Alluvial group, Rawang’s combined plant
recovered 65 tons of t.o. from 225,000
yards; an average of .641 b. per cubic
yard last month. This is a five-ton
drop on the January recovery, when the
average was .711 b. Ivundang, which has
how entered the dividend list, hopped out
well ahead of the January figures with an
average of .951 b. The co. now claims to be
out of debt, and announces that dividends
can be paid with tin above £2OO and a
recovery of not less than 18 tons of t.o.
per month. Kundang has done much better
than this for some time, averaging over 30
toils per month for the last quarter of 1925,
equal to .591 b. per yard. Recoveries for
January and February total 68 tons. The
£l. shares are at par, or a shade better.
Kampar Tin Fields had a smaller turnover
with 480.000 yards, and recovered 130 tons
of t.o. as against 140 in January. The
February average was .701 b. as against ,59!b.
in the previous month. Changkat dropped in
turnover, recovery and average, these being
126.000 yards, 60 tons and 1.071 b. respec-
tively ; in January, 83 tons averaged 1.341 b.
per yard. Costs were: Rawang, 4.974 d.;
Ivundang. 8.47 d.; Kampar, 3.85 d.; Changkat,
5.77 d. Knndang’s costs were above the usual
level: Changkat’s are on the down grad°.
The most interesting of tin* February
returns from the Malayan dredges is that
from tlie newcomer, Katu, the first of Burma
Malay’s subsidiaries, which began work with
the New Year. In January 100,000 yards
yielded 12 tons of t. 0., or .271 b. per yard.
February’s figures are 108,000 yards for 18
tons; average, .371 b. The borers (E. N.
Mulligan and H. I*. Buckley) estimated that
Katu contained 21.300,000 yards with an
average depth of 33ft. and a tin content of
,871 b. of 72 p.c. tin oxide to the cubic yard.
Indications so far arc that estimates are
likely to be realised. The dredge is a self-
contained electric plant of a capacity of
125,000 c.y. per month.


As^
m
&
?■ . ii
. •■-
a:
: : ■-■-
■
a
tea
it
m,
i?w >•
H.V
m
%
$ 1
fi £
iis
1 18!
m
•""’WlfcS'i&ll
*' . . .
ara
IF OIL IS KING,
THEN WOODBURN DOME IS ITS THRONE
To the Men and Women who think
that buying shares is beyond them.
ATTENTION!
Buying oil shares in a comany possessing a property of such outstanding possibilities
and facilities for the discovery of oil as that of Woodburn Dome, Limited, although
apparently a speculation, goes much deeper.
The importance to Australia of payable oilfields is so great of such vital importance
—that it behoves everyone to do his, or her, bit to discover them.
The Geologist and Oil Experts of Woodburn Dome, Limited, have made it unnecessary
for you to do any looking. They have picked out and reported on a site which, in their
opinion, has possibilities of being oil-bearing equal to any district in Australia, with the
added advantage of being on the coast line.
The site being found for you, your job is to test and prove it. When successful, what
rewards! Not only National rewards, but rich pecuniary rewards.
And this doesn’t cost much! Woodburn Dome Shares are 2/6 each and YOUR
LIABILITY ENDS THERE.
You can get 10 shares for £l/5/-; 50 shares for £6/5/-; 100 shares for £l2/10/-
Although up to the present you may have never held a share in your life, you can no doubt see that .
in regard to oil shares in Australia it is:— _ /
(a) Your duty to assist in discovery and development of oil. /
(b) So easy to buy shares that you won’t feel it. . /
BEAR IN MIND the Company’s nroperty is in Northern New South Wales. Boring X
will be cheap, as the Woodburn Dome Oilfield is shallow seated. Transportation will X
also be cheap, as the oilfield is on the coast. /
OPPORTUNITY doesn’t knock at your door often! You will be sorry if you X
keep the door shut. Oil has made more fortunes than any other investment. X
Find out more about Woodburn Dome and its possibilities. Send for a /
prospectus at once. To-morrow may lengthen into next week, and— /
then—opportunity may have passed on. X
Cut out and, post this
coupon without delay
or obligations.
V
V A
£&* JY
4V\Aj
4 c?\*
,«p w /' J v
*
•' • k 5?
•dy • *>
«
•jsr
4 V ►*
&
m
©
©
©
BELL*
S 3 ft?
country **
where tKe
1 ie in use.
cycle is .
They are hand
some, *eU
***t n-d
having a ,
ro „sicanonethat
Jives a»P le
vjarnit\J
1 i st’s ap'
C y rh Made in
»«r?.
s
every P urse
-purpose*
FREE
WHEEL*
The Perry Free
Wheel is perhaps
the most popular
free wheel ever
made —and it has
been fitted to
cycles since the
very earliest
days of the indus-
try. The Perry
Free W , heel en-
sures smooth
running and
wears as long as
the cycle itself.
It is, of course,
at its best with
the Perry Chain.
(HitlNl
Perry Roller
Chains are made
for both cycles
and motorcycles,
and are subjected
to stringent tests
and a very heavy
breaking strain
before despatch.
The Perry Chain
is ideal with the
Perry Free
Wheel, although
it can be used
with advantage
with any other
make.
m
Qf CHAIN
w
mstj
FACTOR/ REPRESENTATIVE
JOHN.A.ARNOLD
ŵ
Xshe
National Mutual Life Association
of Australasia Limited.
Established 1869.
THE ACTUARIAL INVESTIGATION AT
30th SEPTEMBER, 1928, DISCLOSES A
SURPLUS FOR THE TRIENNIUM OF
£4,247,836,
of which
£ 1,234,31 8 has been used to strengthen Reserves,
£3,013,318 has been used to provide bonuses for
Policy-holders.
The Cash Bonus is equivalent to
REVERSIONARY BONUS ADDITIONS OF £4,929.300.
The Reserves are upon a basis of Hm. Mortality with interest
at 3 per cent.
THE ASSOCIATION ALLOTS BONUSES ANNUALLY.
IT IS PURELY MUTUAL AND HAS NO SHAREHOLDERS.
Offices: 350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.


A
I
*
a \
'III
..3, ,
\ V:
V\^
M >‘
®<
<r 1 >;Jk.
r>o
. . /;• ,<r -
MB
S?S
II
//
■X
W^ !
s?\
M
SSR®
m£
\W
KS
:
I
i
s ; |
i!l:
•A h
•S\
( *
j.4
& *
3
f ul
1
• / •
mmm
m
M
\Wi
5\
Producin.;
to a World Standard
HTHE adoption of the most modern
methods and equipment, progres-
sively improved by close co-operation
and exchange of ideas with the world’s
largest body builder, enables Holden’s
now to build motor bodies in Australia
equal in quality to any in the world.
To mark this achievement the new
nameplate introduced in this advertise-
ment has been adopted. The design
symbolizes distinctiveness, strength and
beauty, and will in future, be found on
every body built by Holden’s.
Further advertisements will tell why
it pays to choose a Holden equipped
car —Watch jor them.
EN’S
MOTOR BODY BUILDERS
L I AVI TED
ADELAIDE, MELBOURNE, SYDNEY AND BRISBANE


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Offices
Pitt & Bridge Street*,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic P.isk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
mm
m
kTHEGREY
SIZEoTWO
SILKCUT VIRGINIA.
DRW*
1® for ®dl. CIGARETTES £® /<
They Satisfy
because they are made from 100
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys”
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a “GREYS.”
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights”
are novy 1/- for
10; 21- for 20.
Build With
WUNDERLICH
Materials
Guard against faulty work
obtain the highest value by in-
sisting on Wunderlich Building
Materials, which include: —
Art Metal Ceilings, Terra Cotta
Roofing Tiles, Asbestos Cement
(Durabestcs) Building Sheets.
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
“Werac”: Choom was busy chewing beer
in the bar, but at last his skiting got on
Bung’s nerves. “Hey,” he roared at him,
“get out of my bar quick and lively or I’ll
blanky well throw you out and sool the
crimson dog on to you as well!” “All right,”
Choom replied placidly as he made for the
door, “Ah can teek a hint.”
THE FORCE IS SO STUPID.
MAGISTRATE: “Didn’t I tell you last time you were here that I didn’t want you to come
before me again?"
HARDCASE: “Yes, your Worship; but I couldn't make the constable believe it.”
“Hayband”: An abo. shearer was turning
them out as ragged as scarecrows. “Bob’s
sheep make yours look silly,” remarked the
owner. “By cripes, boss,” replied Jackie,
“mine tinkit mine make his look silly if we
get a cold snap.”
* * * • *
“P.M.”: A traveller driving a buggy and
pair, a roan horse and a piebald, turned up
at an out-back dairy farm the other day.
“Hey, Dad,” yelled one of the kids, “here’s
a man to see you. He’s driving a Shorthorn
an’ an Ayrshire!”
“Hayband”: The ’ghan evidently thought
that an oily “‘T’ankyou” was sufficient reward
for the postmaster who wrote his letters and
long telegraphed orders to Perth. Hints only
bounced, so the next telegram had an un-
authorised addendum: “Send postmaster one
silk shirt, size 16.” Interpolations of that
sort were made at intervals thereafter, and
the Asiatic had to grin and bear it.
* * * *
“Chicot”: No rain had fallen for nearly
a year. At last a few drops of the welcome
stuff came sprinkling down. Whereupon
Cuthbert, the new English hand, warbled
soulfully a popular song of the time: “Let
It Rain. Let It. Rain ! Let the love in your
heart, dear, remain.” Dad glared at Cuth-
bert and bawled out, “Let it rain? Well,
if I catch anyone trying to stop it, I’ll screw
his blarsted neck off!”
* * * *
“Jim Carew”: On the far south coast of
N.S.W. recently I saw an old-time sign.
Hanging to the bare tent poles of a deserted
camp was the skeleton of a dog, and not far
away was a big hole in the ground, evidently
a prospecting shaft. Years ago. when pros-
pecting was -much more prevalent than it
is now, hanging the dog to the tent poles
was a popular custom after the fossickers
had sunk a duffer. The sign, although rough
on the dog, served to warn any future pros-
pectors against wasting time in the neigh-
borhood. Can anyone say how the custom
originated?
* * * *
“Sea Nomad”: A prized shark was one,
which ate a wealthy Chinnman who fell
over the Thursday Island wharf some time
back. The yellow man was en route for
China, and missed the gangway in the dark.
Next day a shark was caught, and inside
was the man’s leg. The dead man’s country-
men offered £5OO for his head, which they
desired to send to China for burial. Added
to this incitement was the fact that the
deceased carried a helt holding 200 sovereigns
around his waist. Many of the colored
population of T.I. turned out in boats after
sharks, but though numbers were caught the
one containing the head and money-belt was
never hooked.
* * * *
“Yam”: Anent the finding of supposed
relics of the Kelly gang near the scene of the
1860 bank robbery at Jerilderie, there is a
genuine relic on the Yarrabah Mission
Station. His name was I'onto and is now
Claude, and he was one of the blacks sent
down to track Ned and his gang. To this
day he carries about with him a piece of
silver plate in his knee where Ned potted him.
He is well over 70, hale and hearty, and now
on loan to the Great Barrier Reef Expedi-
tion at Low Island, where he does odd
jobs and, incidentally, entertains the company
with yarns of the old days.
* * * *
“S.H.C.” : It is time users of poisons in the
bush were compelled by law to store poisons
in a building used only for that purpose,
with only one person allowed to distribute
from that building. There are as many
tragedies through “Thought it was baking-
soda” as there are through “Didn’t know it
was loaded.” A recent case was that of three
rabbiters (two dead) at Inverell (N.S.W.).
The cook put arsenic in the flour instead of
b.-s. Poison isn’t safe even after it has
been eaten by rabbits. Here’s my own
experience. We were poisoning with apples
and strychnine, and collected all the bunny
carcases and cremated them in a roaring
fire. Six months afterwards two travellers
lit a fire on the ashes to make a damper.
Both were found by a boundary-rider suffer-
ing agony. They were, treated in hospital
and recovered. Investigation showed par-
ticles of strychnine adhering to the bottom
of the damper.
a-. * * *
“Pudden”: What’s wrong with the islands
off the Queensland coast for possum farm-
ing? Islands are fenced by the sea, which
gets over the principal difficulty. And many
SAFETY (PINS) FIRST.
MRS. GRUNDY: “No, sir! I positively refuse to be eaten until you clothe yourselves
decently."
of the Bananaland islets are well timbered
with hoop pine, tea-tree, blood wood and other
possum fare and grow a lot of soft scrub
wood. Goats tackle that scrub when the
leaves grow low enough, and it ought to
suit possums. There are no dingoes, no
wild cats, comparatively few goannas, and big
carpet snakes are unknown in my experience.
There are no possums, kangaroos or walla-
bies on the islands now, and there is grass
to spare if possums like a change of fodder.
Hollow trees may be a bit scarce, but there
are plenty of clefts in the rocks.
% ij: 7 * *l*
“Pigcat” : Hornets seem to have a double-
ended sense of direction. I’ve seen them
carrying a dead spider and striking a line
through grass stems, struggling through
tussocks and scrambling over gibbers, never
losing the sense of direction. That .was. easy,
but the other day I saw one running in re-
verse. Its prey was too big tor
it to drag by straddling, and it
turned round and took it in its
pincers of jaws. Then, stern
first, it struck a line for home.
It never stopped to look round;
it never paused to get its breath,
and it held a line as straight as
one could lay a ruler. Now
and again its hind buffers would
bump a stone or other obstruc-
tion. That- brought the hornet
up all standing, but it never
released its hold of the spider.
Its hind legs whirled and felt
for a new footing and the drag
continued. Goodness only knows
how far the thing had come —I
didn’t see the start. But 1 was
there at the finish, and that
hornet took a straight line of
fully a hundred yards from where I first
saw it and went astern to its hole in
the ground with the certainty of a needle
seeking a magnet.
* * * *
“Eureka”: “Yer can’t beat a good decoy
to put in the jam and strychnine to attract
the rabbits.” said Sandy, the Bega rabbit
catcher. “That decoy of mine is so flamin’
strong that when I'm mixin’ it the rabbits
are hanging round the tent waitin’ to get a
go at it. The chemist has to keep it in air-
tight bottles to stop the rabbits from raidin’
his shop.”
* * * *
“Beeston Humber”: I’ve looked into the
eyes of the old chap with the scythe more
than once, but my narrowest squeeze was
as a kid of 18, 30 years ago. The nipper
of that age who lived in Christchurch (M.L.)
at that time and didn’t own an up-to-date
bike and legs strong enough to push it 20
miles in an hour was reckoned null and void.
I'd just »scrapped a horrible old solid-tyred
contraption in favor of a sweet little 201 b.
road-racer, geared to 96, and of course the
first thing I bad to do was to undertake a
round trip over the hills through Sumner,
Lyttelton and Governor’s Bay. Going down
from the top of Sumner Hill to Lyttelton
the road is as smooth as a billiard-table, the
grade is terrific, and there are bends that
make a hairpin look like an obtuse angle.
I was sailing down at about 40 miles an
hour when I noticed a corner ahead that I
hadn’t any chance at all of getting round.
I had no brake. On the seaward side there
was a drop of well over 100 feet on to rugged
reefs. On the landward side was a clay cut-
ting studded with stunted bushes. I steered
into the landward side, and next thing I
knew I was sitting astride a manuka bush
20 feet up.the side of the cutting. My bike
was draped round a wild briar bush several
feet below me. And there wasn’t a mark
on the bike’s enamel or a mechanical derange-
ment of any sort. I had a small scratch
on my lip, inflicted, I believe, by the briar
patch en passant. My mates, who had
elected to walk down, came running, wild-
eyed and panic-striken, peering over the pre-
cipice for my mangled form. I greeted them
with a superior sniff, having regained the
roadway and salvaged my mount. I didn’t
tell ’em what had happened, but from that
day to this, on bike or motor-bike, or in a
car, I’ve never tackled a hill-road without
making sure of brake-equipment.
* # * *
“Vulagi”: The marcelling a Fijian gives
his hair is a lengthy process, in which lime
is used to produce a golden tinge. Once
the permanent wave has been completed the
job is expected to last for months, and
Samuela has the greatest objection to getting
his masterpiece wet. In showery weather the
umbrella is always in evidence. Watching
the flooded Navua River one very wet day,
I saw a native from the mountains coming
down stream on a log. All that was showing
was one end of the log and the passenger’3
head and shoulders, one hand holding up a
gamp to keep his hair dry.
* * * *
“Mulgo”: Grasshopper plagues have oc-
curred in many parts of the country, but
the only instance that I have known of the
pest being mustered and yarded occurred in
the Isis (Q.) sugar-growing district a few
years ago. The ’hoppers appeared in mil-
lions, attacking unprotected plantations and
eating everything but the mid-ribs and stalks
of cane. As a last resort mustering and yard-
ing was tried. Shallow trenches were dug,
and from the ends of these calico wings were
run out for about 100 yards. Then men and
boys, armed with bushes, drove the hoppers
before them to the trenches, into which they
fell in seething heaps, and were then easily
killed. In some places the bottoms of the
trenches were covered with molasses ob-
tained from the mills, which generally ac-
counted for the first drive. The trenches
had to be filled in soon after the muster, as
the piles of ’hoppers, if unburied, made thfe
immediate surroundings hum.
(Continued on page 25.)
“THE WAYS O’ WIMMEN.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The ways o’ wimmen ’ave me beat, an’, down
an’ out an’ done,
I reckon they’re the queerest things that
walk beneath the sun.
From servin’ maid to ’aughty dame, from
Jane to Lady Lou,
They know a ’ole ’eap more’n us—they’re
wise to me an’ you.
I took me Sarah to a dance at Murphy’s
shearin’-shed,
I wish I’d left ’er ’ome, fer she near drove
me orf me ’ead.
A funny cove from town wuz there with
sideboards an’ a ’at,
An’ she jist seemed to plank ’erself where
that there johnny sat.
Fer ’alf the night she danced with ’im, an’
left me like a dub.
I stood it fer a while and then got blithered
at the pub,
An w’en I got to that there stage w’ere you
are feelin’ well.
I called ’er tony cobber out and gave the
blighter ’ell.
She wouldn’t trust ’erself with me to see
’er ’ome to dad,
An’ w’en I meets ’er once again I reckoned
she’d be mad.
But no! She sidles up to me an’ sez, “It
wuz me bluff.
I carried on with ’im cos you weren’t sparkin’
up enough.”
It knocks me flat; but men are fools w’en
wimmen ’old the reins.
The Lord gave us our share o’ sense, but
ole Nick gave them brains.
They read us like an open book; but we’re
too blind to see
From slavey Jane to ’igh-born maid they’re
wise to you an’ me.
VICTORIA.
P.T.F.


y
mmm
m
//
.1
H?
7/
i
I
s
a; :
■V H E
m
■ H
W:
mm
m
Captain McARTHUR
55a
I 1
ikSaXjlfr
CPristocr’a.tic Pioneers'.'
HARDY’S WINES OF TINTARA
CAPT. JOHN MACARTHUR was one of the earliest pioneers of the Colony of New South Wales, and during the regime of Governor
The^ establishment^f'^Hardy’s^ine^irds'ln 3^! 85 3" places them among the earliest, and Champion Reserve Port is the quintessence of
quality resulting from these years of experience and maturity.


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Bafety Fust)
Detonators
Cartridges
ŵ
A WONDERFUL BODY BUILDER
/
MY ADVICE
TO YOU !
TAKE
A.R
TONIC WINE
RELIEVES
EXHAUSTION
A - B JSt A -B
TRADE MARK
REGISTERED
BUILDS UP
THE SYSTEM
AFTER ILLNESS.
s :
Obtainable everywhere throughout Australia—
CHEMISTS, LICENSED GROCERS, HOTELS, etc.
Suppliers for N.S.W. and Q’land: McLaughlin & Co., Ltd., Corner Sussex and Hay Streets, Sydney.
„ „ West Australia Distillers Agency, Ltd., Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
_ . I Irvine & McEachern, Brisbane Street, Launceston.
„ „ Tasmania } Ferguson & Co., Murray Street, Hobart.
Sole Proprietors: ARNOLD BROS., A.B. Building, 527-529 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
FIRST CALL.
DAD: “That’s the idea! Hurry up and put your boots on.”
NEW HAND: “Struth! I haven’t got ’em off yet!”
“Questo”: Why is it that lost cattle in-
variably make for the sunrise? Buffaloes
have come to the eastern shores of the Cape
York Peninsula all the way from the
Northern Territory. From time to time
stray ones have been shot on Violetvale
station on the shores of Princess Charlotte
Bay. They have passed through jungles and
swamps, over mountains and across croco-
dile-infested rivers. Black boys who fol-
lowed their tracks found that they came
eastwards in an almost direct line.
* * * *
“Myalla”: An unusual case of snakebite
occurred out Young (N.S.W.) way recently.
Two boys, brothers, saw a large reptile feast-
ing on sparrows they had trapped in a net,
and lay in wait for him. When the snake
appeared again, one brother broke its back
with a billet of wood and the other picked
it up by the tail and, swinging it like a whip,
cracked off its head, which flew back unex-
pectedly and struck him on the instep. So
savagely did the dying reptile bite that
the fangs were left embedded in the flesh.
A medical man extracted them some time
after first-aid had been given, and the young
mau suffered no permanent injury.
* # * *
“Waati”: If near-by residents are to be
believed, the fame of the caves at Jenolan
and Wombcyan is likely to be eclipsed some-
day by a wonderful series of similar caverns
at Timor, near Murrurundi (N.S.W.). Those
who have explored these subterranean palaces
arc unhesitating in their assertions regarding
their superiority to the Jenolan Caves. Not
many people have dared to explore them, as at
present ingress is gained through small adits,
and in places the passages are only large
enough to permit a ferret to pass. Explorers
state that by rappings they have established
the existence of further great caverns to
which there is at present no inlet.
* * * *
“Paul C.”: “Pick” (B. 16/l/’29) says
that “foxes, cats or possums will sit sulkily
quiet until the trapper’s arrival” when
caught in a rabbit trap. Not foxes. Unless
the pin of the trap is a long one and driven
tightly into solid ground, the fox will tear
it out and clear off, trap and all, and if the
trapper locates the trap he is likely to find
no more than the fox’s foot in it. Even
when the pin of the trap holds, he is more
likely to find the foot in the trap than the
fox, especially if the trap has a very strong
spring, as this tends to amputate the leg.
Whether the fox gnaws the skin that is
holding him, or whether he twists it off in
his exertions to escape I cannot say, but
he certainly doesn’t sit sulkily till the
trapper arrives.
WHAT TOOK SILAS OFF.
“I was very sorry to hear oj your husband’s death, Mrs. Tregubbins. What took him
off at the end?”
“The new motey-’earse, Maister Polglaise I told ’im all ’long ‘Nothin’ but the best
is good ’nough for ’ee, Silas.’”
“Mako”: When some Maoris on the east
coast of Maoriland were chasing a magni-
ficent wild horse recently, the animal eluded
them by dashing into the sea and swimming
out of sight. The pursuers awaited its re-
turn until nightfall, and then concluded it
had been drowned. Some interested spec-
tators turned a telescope on to the moonlit
sea and reported a dark bulk far out that
looked like the horse, still swimming, but that
was discredited by other observers. At nine
o'clock next morning the horse swam ashore
lower down the coast, apparently none the
worse for his all-night immersion, and at
last reports was still at liberty.
* * * *
“Paul C.”: An unerring sense of direction
is possessed by some horses. On different
occasions I have got off a narrow bush track
in the pitch blackness of a stormy night,
when I could not see the horse’s ears, and,
although there were miles of scrub and vines
and fallen timber between us and the nearest
main road, all I have had to do was to lie
low over the pommel to keep myself from
being pulled off by boughs or vines, and
give my horse his head. He would take a
direct line for home, and land me safely
there, though sometimes with my clothes
hanging about me like ribbons round a may-
pole.
* * * *
“Pick”: Unlike most wild bush birds,
pigeons decline further parental duties on
the day they decide that their nestlings can
forage for themselves. Devoted parents up
to that stage, they not only furnish the
sreds suitable as food to their fledglings,
but they partly digest them before trans-
ferring them to the youthful craws. Then
comes a day when the old birds heave the
youngsters out of the ragged stick nest, and
leave them to shift for themselves. After
that the parents and offspring know each
other no more.
♦ * * *
“Up North”: I wonder how many miles
an emu could walk before it got tired? Its
legs are bone stilts, and I cannot imagine
them ever aching. Its thighs, which are the
meatiest part of the body, are masses of con-
centrated muscle and sinew. And yet, dur-
ing the hottest part of the day, the emu has
his smoke-oh. A mob of them, or perhaps
just mum and dad, squat down under shady
trees with their long necks in the air, in-
dulging in a desultory conversation of clicks,
grunts and hisses, occasionally twisting then-
necks round to viciously prod their tail
feathers. As mating time approaches the
young bloods, sheened of feather and very
bright-eyed, stalk in solitary grandeur
through the bush in quest of ladyloves. When
one is found —the ladies go on their lone-
some, too —she exhibits not the faintest
interest in her wooer, but continues her
-stately walk, momentarily stopping now and
again to peck at a tempting grass. The boy
approaches very circumspectly, with his
feathers at their most effective angle, cluck-
ing the usual series of masculine promises.
Just as he is getting in his finest work, a
rival may appear. Then there is a hell of
a row. Romeo dashes straight at the rival;
gravel and feathers start to fly; loud grunts
cleave the welkin; wicked heads armed with
strong beaks dart murderously; and power-
ful legs kick with enough force to snap the
underprops of a draught horse. The flapper,
from a little distance, gazes interestedly on.
The victor shakes himself, plumes his dis-
arranged feathers, and then, with the air
of a conqueror, struts across and claims his
bride.
* * * *
“Yasim”: A custom which has only
recently been completely stamped out was
peculiar to Tami- and Siassi Islands, New
Guinea. After every birth, a meeting of the
elders, both men and women, met and dis-
cussed the balance of sexes, and if it were
decided the newcomer was superfluous, a sing
sing was made and the child was smothered.
Parents also had the privilege, should a
second or third child of the same sex arrive,
of saying it was not wanted, but, provided
the council was agreeable, any woman short
of a child of that sex could claim it as hers.
This probably arose from the fact that these
small islands possess no land where food
can be grown, the staple diet being fish,
helped out by taro, etc., bought from the
mainland natives. Under these conditions
the fear of semi-starvation is always present.
In no other part of the Islands were such
drastic steps taken, though strict continence
up to two years after the birth of a child is
practised in many parts, and has the effect
of limiting the number of mouths to be fed.
* # * *
“John B.”: I’ll nominate the small grey,
red, or red and black ground scorpion of
Central and North Australia as one of the
best indicators of rain and floods. He de-
serts his riverside dwellings, and sandy
patches on the terraces above flood-level or
banks of friable loam are riddled wijth the
shallow pits of the little chap before a
heavy fall of rain. He knows a bit about
drainage, too, and excavates his new home
so that it can’t be inundated by storm-water.
* * * *
“Wallaby”: Can a kangaroo hop as usual
if deprived of its tail? Recently I watched
the chase of a tailless ’roo by a cocky on a
fast horse. Whether the animal lost its
rudder by a freak of nature or by accident
I cannot say, but he seemed to get over the
ground as quickly as his unmutilated
brethren. The only difference in his mode
of travelling was that he kept a rather more
erect attitude than is usual with those of
his tribe.
MY LITTLE SIX-BY-EIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You can talk about the mansions of Potts
Point an’ old Toorak.
Of your bungalows an’ villas, an’ the station
homes out back.
You can prate of “Spanish mission,” “Geor-
gian” an’ other styles
That may rear aloft their gables, roofed with
iron, slates or tiles.
You can have your lawns an’ gardens, con-
crete paths an’ shrubbery,
But a “house” of duck or calico is good
enough for me.
It need have no hedge around it, or no fancy
' cyclone gate,
But I’ll always be contented in my little
six-by-eight.
It has sheltered me in winter from tli’ driving
rain an’ sleet,
An’ has been a welcome refuge from the
summer’s glarin’ heat;
With a good bag fly above it an’ each guy-
rope taut an’ strained,
In my bag an’ saplin’ stretcher I have
chuckled when it rained.
I have laughed at wind an’ weather, in th’
stormy nights I’ve spent,
Snugly tucked beneath th’ blankets in my
little snowy tent.
Walled around with bricks an’ mortar I
would surely suffocate,
But I breathe the air of freedom in my little
six-by-eight.
Here, instead of clangin’ tram-bells an’ th’
noises of th’ street,
I can hear from out the gullies bellbirds
tinklin’ low an’ sweet.
Mirthful “maggies” are broadcastin’ from the
tree-tops, an’ old “Jack”
Wakes th’ welkin with his laughter—how
tli’ glad notes echo back!
There are blackfish in th’ river, ducks upon
th’ broad lagoon ;
If my larder should be empty I replenish it
full soon.
An’ although I’m “on my lonesome” —just my
old dog for a mate —
I am happy an’ contented in my little six-
by-eight.
Not for me a castle’s turrets, or a vast
“baronial pile.”
I’d prefer to go on livin’ in th’ simple, homely
style
That has always been my custom since I
first commenced to roam.
With th’ long grey road before me, an’ th’
little tent my home.
Just a length of rope for “ridge-pole” an’
I’ve pitched her by the track.
For she’s portable an’ handy is my little
old duck shack.
Were I king of Ruritania I would quickly
abdicate,
For I’d miss the homely comforts of my
little six-by-eight.
She is frayed an’ patched an’ mended, but
that doesn’t worry me,
For her title-deeds are freehold, an’ there is
no mortgagee
To foreclose an’ seize th’ chattels of my little
old abode.
An’ to sell th’ place by auction —send me
homeless on th’ road.
Rents an’ rates an’ other worries that
domestic cares increase
Never darken th’ horizon of my sky of per-
fect peace.
Monday mornin’ brings no landlord grim an’
scowlin’ to the gate.
For she’s free an’ unencumbered, is my little
six-by-eight.
VICTORIA.
THOMAS V. TIERNEY.


Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. „ . , , .
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover ot
last Bulletin to hand. . . ,
Readers obliging with replies need not attacn
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Words of “Lasca.” (To J. H. Wade,
Wilgcna Station, Tarcoola, S.A.)
Words of “Oh, Why Should the Spirit of
Mortal Be Proud?” (To G. Gates, Clematis,
Victoria.)
By experienced sawmiller, cutting on
contract, N.S.W. country mi 11.—8962.
Axeman, Sydney, wants work, tree felling.
—8961.
Miner, hand and machine experience, drill
sharpener, last five years bridge carpenter,
wants work, N.S.W. —8960.
Young man (20) wants position, city or
country, N.S.W., motor-driver (running
repairs), handy horses. —8956.
Married man (38), Q’land, small family,
15 years’ experience every branch of station
work, seeks position as manager, anywhere.
—8978.
Engine-driver, first-class certificate (Tas.),
experience steam, electrical and crude-oil
engines, repairs and fittings, would like posi-
tion N.S.W. or Vic., country preferred.—
9052.
Melbourne girl, living in Southern Q’land,
wishes correspondence with bachelor girl,
view to business partnership.—9o32.
N.S.W. prospector wants partner to
finance erection plant to extract gold from
alluvial wash. —9031.
Returned soldier (30), Sydney, tee-
totaller, wants job as clerk or manager petrol
station ; expert driver. —8997.
To hear from men on the land who have
tried top-dressing pasture land, especially
subterranean clover, twice yearly (autumn
and spring.)—9o27.
Young Scotchman, Sydney, recent arrival,
wants carpentry work, city or country, good
recommendations. —8958.
Young man (22) wants position as grocer
in N.S.W. or Vic., exp. in city and country.
—8963.
Lady with established frock business in
Sydney suburb requires lady partner with
car. —9040.
Young lady (21) wishes to correspond with
Bulletin readers, either sex, living or
working on farms and stations. —9043.
Qualified dispenser, dental operator, 4£
years A.A.M.C. (staff sgt.), skilled surgical
dresser, good style and diction, urgently seeks
engagement with country practitioner, any
State ; Digger m.o. preferred.—9o24.
Young man (22), Perth, would like situa-
tion with gentleman intending to travel or
others offering promise of adventure. —9017.
Sales manager for large concern, N.Z.,
experienced in modern business methods,
wishes to hear from a commercial house in
Australia which can make good use of his
services.—B96B.
Young man (21), Sydney, single, experi-
ence store work, book-keeping and sales, oils
and engine-packing, wants position, any-
where. Good worker and refs. —9005.
Reading matter to while away dull hours
for lighthouse-keepers. (To J. Vickers, Pile
Light, c/o Port Officer, Edward-street, Bris-
bane, Q.)
Name and address of retailer stocking
Perfection tubular fasteners. —8779.
To buy, early works Dickens, Barrie,
Shaw, Burns, Surtees, Stevenson and
Kipling. (To L. L. Jenkins, Box 32, Post
Office, North Sydney.)
To buy book entitled “Army Sanitation,”
1926.—9004.
To buy, copy Lady’s Realm, Feb., 1906
(Vol. 19, No. 112).—8982.
To buy book explaining use of the pris-
matic compass.—B9Bs.
Will exchange Persian cat for a light
sable Pomeranian pup. (To 5 Cottenham-
street, Glebe, Sydney.)—S9s7.
Old postage stamps, British Empire, col-
lections or loose specimens.—8964.
Whereabouts of John Ching, left Holds-
worthy, Devon, England, many years ago;
last heard of in Brisbane. (To Mrs. F. B.
Smith, 312 West Queen-street, Hastings,
Hawkes Bay, N.Z.)
To hear from Bulletin readers who have
connected any sort of motor to a semi-rotary
well pump (25ft. suction, lifting 30ft. to
overhead tank). —8970.
Information Sought.
(1) Can a person desiring to become a
solicitor i i N.S.W. attain his object by pri-
vate study without attending the University
or any similar institution? (2) Rates of
pay for a solicitor’s clerk. —8925.
(1) He must be articled to a solicitor for
five years, but he can study privately. (2)
Salary is a matter of arrangement; there is
no scale.
What was the code by which natives of
Australia were able to communicate by
smoke signals? —8474.
Codes used not only varied with each
tribe, but were rarely permanent even within
the tribe. The signalling system was usually
arranged just before one portion of the tribe
set out on an expedition.
(1) I intend planting a four-acre orchard
on a southerly slope of my land. The surface
is littered icith small stones , and there is
yelloiv clay subsoil. What class of fruit do
you recommend I should plant? (2) A num-
ber of insects resembling beetles _ have lately
found their way into my beehives. They
are about a half-inch lo7ig with light brown
body. Are they harmful, acd ichat are they?
—BB7B.
Write to Dept, of Agriculture. Melbourne,
and request that an officer be sent to
inspect the land and advise you. (2) Sound
like cockroaches, which are frequently fount
in hives. They are practically harmless.
(11 What are the prospects of a manual
laborer (26) becoming a N.S.W. primary-
school teacher? (2) What qualifications are
required? —SSs7. , , , „_„ o i
(1) The fact that you have been a manual
laborer won’t affect your chance. U) lou
must first go through the Teachers 1 raining
College, entrance to which is gained b> com
petition at an examination up to the standar
of the Intermediate Certificate. Particular*
will be given by the Director of Education,
Education Dept., Bridge-street, Sydney.
(1) Has cultivation of the Queensland
bush-nut been successful in Northern N.
Wales* (2) Is there a permanent demanas
(3) At what age do the trees come into bcar-
ina? (4) What is the cost of seed and plants?
(5) Which is the better way to grow—from
seeds or plants? —8975. , ,
(1) The climate has been proved to be
suitable, but no large areas are yet in bear-
ing. A few growers on the North Coast have
been placing small parcels of nuts on the
market. (2) Yes. (3) About the seventh
year. It is estimated that each tree will
yield from Oil), to 201 b. of nuts. (4) Mixed
rough-shell varieties can be bought from
North Coast growers from 2s. 9d. per lb., and
ss. per dozen is charged for nuts of the genu-
inc smooth-shell varieties. r lrees can be pur-
chased from some of the nurserymen, from
whom prices can be obtained. (5) tmnt
advise, as both methods are on trial. In
raising trees from seed it is usual to stratuy
the nuts before planting into pots just as
the shell is breaking. The nuts are lifted and
planted into 6in. pots, in which they are
grown until sufficiently large to plant out.
My dog is suffering from swollen leg joints
and wasting away in the shoulders and hips.
What’s wrong with him, and what can be
done? —8989.
The symptoms point to some rheumatic
affection of the joints. Give him plenty of
green vegetables with gravy or soup, and
administer a teaspoonful of Parrish s Food
in a little water twice daily. Bones or bone-
meal should be supplied.
(1) Is the constellation of the Great Bear
(Ursa Major) visible in all the States of
Australia at any period of the year? (2) Can
Cassiopeia be seen? _ (3) Is the Southern
Cross visible in Britain? —9019.
(1 and 2) Portions of the constellations
Ursa Major and Cassiopeia can be seen from
any part of Australia, but those living in
the south see only a small part of these con-
stellations on their northern horizon. In the
north of the continent practically the whole
of these groups is visible. (3) No.
Method of preserving whitebait? —9014.
Deal with the whitebait as quickly as
possible after it is taken from the water.
Clean in lightly salted water, remove any
objectionable fish, shrimps, etc., which may
be caught with it, and drain in a colander.
Pack into glass preserving jars very full, and
add as much lightly salted water as possible;
place new rubbers in position, and set on
the lids, but do not screw down. Place the
jars in a large pan of cold water, packed
round and underneath with straw or paper
so that they do not knock and crack; put
over a good fire and cook till contents of the
jars show small bubbles rising from the bot-
toms to the tops. Keep at this temperature,
which should be 212 deg. Fah., for seven
minutes. Take out the jars and screw down
the lids as tightly as possible. As each one
is done, stand it upside down for a few
hours to test for leakages; then store in
• a dark place, as cool as possible. If the
jars leak, the processing must be done again
so that the contents are completely air-
sealed at boiling point, otherwise the food
will not keep.
What are the longest and shortest days
in Sydney during 1929, and when does the
sun rise and set on each day? —9ooo.
Shortest: June 22; sunrise, 7 a.m.; sun-
set, 4.53 p.m. Longest: December 22; sun-
rise, 4.40 a.m.; sunset, 7.07 p.m.
(1) Is there any unimproved land near
sugar mills in Q’land available now for cane
planting? (2) What would improved sugar
land within reasonable distance of a
mill north of Ingham cost? (3) What
would it cost to plant 10 acres of cane? (4)
For how many seasons will a crop stand
cutting? (5) How many tons of cane does
it require to produce one ton of sugar?
(6) What is the average yield of cane per
acre? —8917.
(1) Not at present. (2) From £5O to
£l3O per acre. (3) About £8 to £lO per
acre. (4) A crop of cane may carry over
to first, second, or third ratoons. (5) On
an average, about 7.63 tons, but the
quantity varies according to locality. (6)
From 20 to 35 tons of cane per acre should
be obtainable on land well cultivated and
fertilised, but yield varies according to
locality.
What and where was Atlantis, and is
there any scientific proof of its existence? —
8987.
The Greek philosopher Plato mentions a
continent in the middle of the Atlantic which
was the home of a civilised nation skilled
in the arts of peace and war, and which a
thousand years before his time was sub-
merged by the sea. There is no scientific
corroboration of the story.
(1) What medals is a member of the
merchant service who served in the war
zone, entitled to wear? (2) Are medals
still available? (3) Where should I apply?
—B9OO.
(1) British War Medal and Mercantile
Marine Medal. (2) Yes. (3) Superinten-
dent, Mercantile Office, Customs House,
Melbourne.
I wish to sow a crop of peas in an orchard
of heavy land. Would it be advisable to drill
in basic phosphate with the peas, which are
wanted for green manure? 88Jo.
One cwt. of ordinary super, per acre
would be preferable.
What taxation (Federal and N.S.W.) is
imposed on legacies from s * ax
on the interest derived only f —89 1 4.
Taxation is imposed only on the income
derived from the investment of a legacy.
(1) Is the N.S.W. Co-operation, Comma-
nity Settlement and Credits Act 1923
erned in any way by the Companies Act
1599 and its amendments? (2) Could an
objection be lodged to the presentation of a
p. and l. account and balance-sheet of a com-
pany registered under the first-named Act
four months after the date to which it is
made up? —B742.
(1) Certain provisions of the Companies
Act are made to apply, subject to specified
alterations. These provisions refer mainly
to winding up, and do not affect the annual
statement of accounts, which is governed
entirely by the Co-operation Act. (2) Sub-
ject to certain exceptions, the financial year
of a society under the Co-operation Act is
required to end between May 31 and July
31. The exact date is fixed in the society’s
rules. The annual meeting is required to
be held within three months after the close
of the financial year, or within such further
time as may be approved by the Registrar
or prescribed by regulation. No regulation
has been made, but the Registrar’s approval
has been obtained in a number of instances
for an extension of time for the holding of
an annual meeting.
(1) Was deferred pay paid on gunnery
ratings in the R.A.N. for the period of 1915-
18? (2) If so, what was the rate for a sea-
man-gunner? (3) How many Australian-
born seamen who enlisted in the R.A.N, prior
to the war and whose scrince period expired
during the war were re-engaged for a further
five or seven years after the war? —8801.
(1 and 2) No additional deferred pay has
been payable at any time in respect of any
non-substantive rating. A seaman-gunner is
credited with the deferred pay applicable to
his substantive rating (either able seaman
or leading seaman). Between 1915 and 1918
the daily rates ranged from lOd. to Is. 2d. for
an able seaman and from Is. Id. to Is. 4d.
for a leading seaman. (3) No information
available.
jlow to rid a barn of weevils? —B43B.
If the barn can be made air-tight, fumi-
gation with carbon bisulphide is the best
remedy. Use from 1 to 101 b. per thousand
cubic feet,, according to the degree of air-
tightness achieved, and leave closed for 48
hours. Great care should be taken, as carbon
bisulphide is an explosive chemical. Another
method is spraying with a good liquid insecti-
cide, which would be moderately effective.
After the spraying, grain, etc., should be
stored in bins capable of fumigation.
(1) Are there any vacancies in the Papuan
Police Force? (2) How are appointments to
the Papuan Public Service made? (3) What,
salary does a patrol officer receive and,
briefly, what are his duties? —B632
(1) No. (2) Generally by the Lieutenant-
Governor from local applicants, but if no
suitable candidates are available, applica-
tions are invited in the Australian press.
(3) The position carries a salary of £325-
£420 per annum, 5 per cent, of which is
deducted as a contribution to the Super-
annuation Fund. The duties consist mainly
in patrolling country to maintain law and
order amongst the natives. A patrol officer
is immediately under the supervision of the
resident magistrate of the district to which
he is allotted. Further particulars may be
obtained from the Government Secretary,
Port Moresby.
How to apply for homestead farm near
Narrandera (N.S.W.), just made available
for selection ? —8953.
Presumably you refer to homestead-farm
area 1810, about 485 acres, available on and
after March 11. Applications must be for-
warded direct to the Crown Land Agent
at Narrandera, so as to be received by him
between the 11th and the 15th. Lithograph
and gazette slips and application forms are
obtainable from Lands Department, Sydney.
(1) In a cricket match, A took 5 wiclcets
for 60, B 4 for 34, and C 1 for 0. Who got
the honors? (2) Must a ball be pitched in
a line icith the stumps, the bowler bowling
over the wicket, to secure a l.b.iv. decision?
—8984.
(1) If by honors you mean average, B,
it being impossible to strike an average for
C. (2) To secure a l.b.w. decision, the ball
must pitch on the stumps and continue on
them. It makes no difference which side of
the wicket the bowler affects.
After painting a brick fireplace with a
mixture of raw oil and Venetian red I find
the color has come out very dull. What
could I use to brighten it up? —B397.
Try painting over the red surface with a
thin solution of white shellac and methy-
lated spirits. To make this, pour the spirits
on the shellac and allow it to stand about 24
hours.
How to exterminate cockroaches? —8891.
Fumigation is the best method, but should
be carried out only by professionals, who
quote for the work. Failing that, lay some
treacle on a piece of wood afloat in a broad
basin of water, set beside a brick or some
means of climbing up to it, and place in the
kitchen at night The bait is irresistible, and
the cockroaches drown. The chinks and
holes from which they issue should also be
filled up with unslaked lime, or painted with
a mixture of borax and heated turpentine.
Leave no uncovered food or unwashed dishes
about at night—they won’t come if there is
nothing to eat.
Is it worth while trying to re-silver a
mirror ?- —8936.
Not if you are an amateur, as the use of
dangerous and troublesome chemicals is in-
volved. A new one would be cheaper. If
the mirror is valuable, consult a firm of
f u rniture-makers.
Information Supplied.
8732: To mend a water-bag, cut away the
worn part and put in a canvas patch. Make
small stitches and fell all around with close
work. I have put new bottoms in water-
bags with a sewing machine. For a round
bag make a new bottom and join on with a
felled seam. For a shaped bag, unpick seams,
make new bottom and join with two rows
of stitching. It is easier to manage this job
if the water-bag is unpicked at the top and
the ends are removed. It is then a straight
piece, and new ends and centre (i.e., bottom)
will be required. Seam carefully.—"Calo.
Does Anybody Know ?
How to cement sheet india-rubber, Jin-
thick, on thin steel sheets. —8966.
A method of tempering motor-spring steel
that could be used in the bush? —8941.
Brief Answers.
Hardup: (1) and (2) Inquiring. (3)
The matter is not yet listed.... Gulled : Sorry, don t
know a thing about them. It is a private co. W hat
made you buy them?... .W.L.: (1) it’s very good
of its class; but it’s not the highest class. If you re
prepared to take a chance in order to get the higher
return, yes. (2) A price-cutting war is probable.
M.I.S.: Sound enough; but there are several that
pay better bonuses. Which means there are several
in which your insurance would cost you less....
J.H.W.: (1) and (2) Making a search. (3) “Banjo”
Paterson: “The Man from Snowy ltiver,” “Rio
Grande’s Last Race,” “Saltbush Bill, J.P.,” “Col-
lected Verse.” He has also edited “Old Bush
Songs” ; Angus and Robertson can supply therm, (4)
Presume you refer to “The Bulletin Reciter and
“The Bulletin Book of Humorous Verses and Reci-
tations” ; if so, N.S.W. Bookstall Co.'can supply... •
W.K.: Powdered arica-nut, one to two grains for each
pound the dog weighs, or eight to ten drops of ex-
tract of male fern, given (in a capsule or milk) first
thing in the morning on an empty stomach, followed
with a small dose of castor oil. • • .R.L.G.: Consult
a vet. ; meanwhile wash the parts with germicidal
soap and water, and then rub with storaxol ointment.
Repeat in three days J.S.: Buffaloes are numerous
in parts of North Australia; they were imported in
the first place A. 1.: Century Insurance, 89 Pitt-
street; Prudential Assurance of London, 77 l’itt-
street, Sydney T.D.: “Beekeeping,” by E. F.
Phillips (155.), Angus and Robertson... .J.E.:
Application may be made in forma pauperis; see
Legal Aid Department, Queen’s-square, Sydney....
W.T.S.: It would be foolish to proceed to either
country without getting a position beforehand. Try
firms who have branches there... .W. 8.: Communi-
cate with the District Veterinary Officer, Coota-
mundra, N.S.W H.A.: Western Land Commis-
sioners, Barrack House, Barrack-street, Sydney, will
supply you with the particulars... ,8.D.: Know of
no Sydney firm stocking the article. .. .J.0.N.: May
Bros, are still at Gawler (5.A.)... .A.S.H.: It is
necessary to serve a five-years’ apprenticeship in
a place where engines and boilers are made or
repaired before you can sit for the exam. Wages
for apprentices in Queensland, Southern Division, are:
14s. per week, first year; £1 Is., second year;
£1 155., third; £2 10s., fourth; £3 55., fifth
L.8.K.: Transfer and mortgage would be desirable;
better not rely on an agreement drawn up by an
auctioneer. It is a case for a solicitor 0.11. M.:
Should the place be open to the public—a railway-
station platform, for example—the owner is liable
for damage caused by his dog. But the claim might
be materially weakened if interference with the
animal could be shown R.H.M. : Commonwealth
Senators and members of the House of Represen-
tatives receive an annual salary of £lOOO each....
C.N.: The Darling-Barwon, from Mungindi to Went-
worth, is about 1700 miles long. The longest river
in the Murray basin is the Condamine-Balonne-
Culgoa-Darling-Murray, which rises at Toowoomba
and continues for 2310 miles N.V.: Oil can only
be taken out of an oilskin by boiling in caustic soda
—generally done in a boiler, a few handfuls of
soda being thrown into the water.... H.R.Z.: (1)
I. S. Griffith’s “Woodwork for Beginners” (65.) ;
G. A. Raeth’s “Home Furniture-making” (7s. 6d.) ;
“Carpentry for Beginners” (4s. 6c1.) ;F. W. Lewis’s
“Home Carpentry and Cabinet Making” (4s. 6d.) ;
all from Dymock’s. (2) “Entertaining Made Easy,”
by Emily Rose Burt; “The Mary Dawson Game
Book,” by Mary Dawson; “Pearl Cole’s Book of
Indoor Games” ; “It Is to Laugh,” by Edna Geister.
W.B.K.: (1) Landlubbers between the ages of
17 and 21 are entered direct in the R.A.N. as
ordinary seamen, second class (if under 18), and
as ordinary seamen (if over IS). Ordinary seamen,
second class, get 17s. 6d. per week active pay and
3s. 6d. per week deferred pay. Ordinary seamen
receive £1 15s. per week active pay and Bs. 9d.
per week deferred pay. (2) A smart youth can
attain to petty officer and later to warrant rank,
and thereafter, on passing examinations, to com-
missioned rank. .. .E.C.: Presumably you refer to
what is called “speckled finish”; if so, it is durable
and cannot be erased by wiping.... J.E.N.: Appa-
rently you have been trying to re-cap the used
shells with the wrong caps. You require a No. 4
improved primer, obtainable from Alcock and Pierce,
318 Little Collins-street, Melbourne. Send them a
used shell for inspection.... R.L.: See reply to No.
8578 (B. 20/2/’29) ... .N.F.P.: Get pamphlet, “How
to Join the R.A.A.F.,” from the secretary, Air Board,
Defence Department, Melbourne... .J.T.A.: Write
Peanut Pool Board, Department of Agriculture, Bris-
bane, Queensland. .. .J.A.11. : Write direct to New
Health Society, Allhusen House, 39 Bedford-square,
London, W.C.1.... G.R.C.: Files are graded accord-
ing to fineness, cross section, peculiarities of shape,
methods of manufacture, etc. A bastard file is one
that in fineness is between a coarse or middle file
and a second-cut file... .F.M.: The second version
is correct... .H.A.K.: Question too vague; state the
particular trade concerned A.R.: Application
should be made direct to proprietors of sheep or cattle
stations, or to cos. such as Winehcombe Carson,
and Goldsbrough Mort. Under the Queensland
station-hands’ award jackeroos on sheep stations are
paid £1 10s. per ' week with keep for the first
year, £2 p.w. second year, and £2 13s. p.w. third
year; on cattle stations £1 ss. 6d., £1 15s. 6d.
and £2 ss. 6d. After a jackeroo has had three
years’ experience he is entitled to the wages pre-
scribed for ordinary station-hands... .J.H.R.: It
appears to be a case of hip lameness ; call in a vet.
... .J.W.E.: Wear the coolest clothes you can get in
the tropics; warm clothing is not only unnecessary
but harmful... .Woola (1) Dangar, Gedye and Co.,
Young-street, Circular Quay, conduct a school giving
instruction in the use of sheep-shearing machinery,
Lister brand. (2) The fee is £5 ss. and pupils
are taken at any time in the year H.M.L.: (1)
The Barrett etching is a commercial production and
consequently has no special value. (2) The coin
appears to be a Belgian penny, called a “double.”
H.L.H.: No chemical reaction takes place when
ether is mixed with a sodium-citrate solution. The
vapor arising from such a mixture would consist only
of the volatile ether which, in ordinary circum-
stances, is not harmful.... Thomas C.: Only the
faintest shadow of a hope.... (Many others mailed.)


• < ' ~ .. *
\ -v ; • • •■•’V
• ' •, "f > >• .'■/.» » • It -' V ■..
-'■ •;• • , : : ■''V', >■ *’ \V
-' -- : r /■': A:/-; V. ■v- .v
. •••*.*> 'v ;, v* e *■' *i • • \ 1 •
. • ••• ••• :•••■! ' •• • ••
>• .. ;
■ 'i
- ■ ■-Vv
' , • .• •• ’<
i’-y
'? !.<V. • : . 1 1 . i;
•••• ! '
/v. . . ", ■ ' V. • .*
: 4 j
r ?,;•
: 7,;. • :
"■ - -'A',-' ’V.
r-s£<
S'S/:
.V, •
.... : - : /7
r- 4 : : : : ■
7;
i
Y<>.
\u<$?
pu.} \
mi
iM,
I
m
it
. v"(“ ~-Jn
I
‘‘'•‘-vv.r
■■■>
a
: -
SA A
eh
Ax
A
J* • / >s
K /-Vi!
In
in
111
fe/y 1
lIC/ sAfr&
;v
Mdm
m
&\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\^^^
ELECT a Mills-
try it on. In every
line and aspect its
appeal is so appar-
ent that no man
can afford to disregard its
merits.
IQ
at that suits uourJersona
Obtainable at all the
leading Men’s Stores
A PRODUCT OF UNITED FELT HATS PTY. LTD
M 7


PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
Peapes welcome every visitor to
Sydney, providing every facility
for convenient and comfortable
shopping for men and boys, even
to The Pepys Room, a reading,
writing and smoking room re-
served exclusively for visitors.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney,
VISITORS TO THE CONTINENT OF EUROPE
Do not fail to visit
THE PARIS
INTERNATIONAL FAIR
MAY II to 26
Further particulars obtainable from
THE FRENCH TRADE COMMISSIONER,
Kembla Buildings, Margaret Street, Sydney.
The
Clip
may be small or large in size, attractive or otherwise
,n quality and condition. That’s not the point. Every
grade of wool and every bale or even bag of it has
its correct market value. And if this action is taken
that full value will be secured.
Send the Wool to
WINGHCOMBE,CARSON
Selling Brokers, LTD>
SYDNEY or BRISBANE,
Who seewre growers highest possible figures for every
bale or bag they cell.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
PRIZES FOR FARM HINTS.
Thousands of men fail on the land be-
cause they don’t know how to succeed;
many thousands more succeed less than
they should because they lack proper
guidance.
“The Bulletin” wants to encourage
farmers and scientists who know to help
those who don’t know.
With that object it offers two prizes of
£2O and £lO for the most useful contri-
butions to the “Land” pages during the
six months ending June 30 next.
All contributions submitted, whether
published or not, will be considered in
awarding points, and the prizes will go
to the winners of most points.
Points will be awarded for interest and
practical usefulness.
The prizes are additional to the usual
payment for published contributions.
♦
DISADVANTAGES OF DEEP SOWING.
“Curlew”: “R.X.8.” (B. 6/2/’29), who
advocates the deep sowing of seeds in a dry
season, runs counter to both theory and the
experience of most farmers. lie makes
furrows 4in. to Gin. deep, sows peas, beans,
pumpkins and other things and covers with
the harrows. That might be all right in
almost pure sand, but in a clay loam they
would have a big job to come through. Not
only that, but at bin. deep the seeds would
be in the bottom of the furrow and all the
worked, fertilised aerated soil would be above
them. The bulk of the available plant food
is in that top Gin. of soil, and the greater
number of organisms making for healthy
growth conditions are there also. I have
sown pumpkin seeds fairly deep with a
potato planter. The soil was in ideal condi-
tion, but only stragglers came through. Last
season I sowed them shallow with the
machine, and had 100 per cent, germination
and a good crop.
It is a good coromonsense rule to sow seeds
three times their own depth. With larger
seeds, except such as are liable to rot if sown
too deep or in too wet a soil (marrows,
melons, pumpkins, cucumbers and beans are
in this class), one may be a bit more generous.
Oats have a better chance sown 2in.
than 4in., while Swedes at 4in„ unless the
mechanical condition of the soil is perfect,
must be a failure.
The drier the season the more thoroughly
should the soil be worked previous to seeding.
Use the harrows and a roller —I prefer a
smoodger—to line the soil and pack it, giving
a stroke of the harrows to leave a mulch.
The soil is brought in contact with the sub-
soil and the upward movement of moisture
facilitated, white the soil mulch prevents its
escape. Not only that, but each night as the
surface soil cools it tends to condense mois-
ture held in the air spaces and practically
produces a deposition of dew in, the soil
itself. A. N. Pearson, one time Vic. Agri-
cultural Chemist, calculated that a well-
worked mulch added moisture to the soil
equalto an inch a month.
To ensure success with seeds the soil
must be brought into the best possible con-
dition before they are sown. Merely poking
them well down is not enough.
FEDERATION SUPERSEDED.
“H.L.G.” : The outstanding feature of this
year’s wheat harvest in Vic. has been the
failure of Federation, for many years the
wheat to which most of the leading wheat-
growers in the Mallee pinned their faith.
Not in only one district was this noticed,
but in practically every district in which
it was grown. Experts don’t agree as
to the cause of the failure, but it is certain
that the area of Federation sown this year
will be considerably less than in previous
years. Little less notable than the failure
of Federation has been the success of Free
Gallipoli, a variety which has been steadily
gaining in favor for some years. A glance
through the results of crop competitions
and of plots conducted by tlie'Department of
Agriculture show that this variety heads
the list more frequently than any other.
Major is another wheat which has done
very well in many districts this year. Bena
has fulfilled the promise which it
made last year, although good yields were
reported in isolated instances. Nabawa has
only yielded moderately tins year. The
Indian cross-bred wheats, Nizam, Sepoy,
Ghurka, Rajah and Ranee, have yielded re-
markably well in many districts.
WESTRALIAN WHEAT YIELDS.
“Westralian”: The application of the
advanced farming methods of the eastern
States to W.A. wheat lands has resulted in
remarkably heavy yields. A. W. Parkinson,
of Gnowangerup, who has again won the
Agricultural Department’s championship, got
40 bushels to the acre off his 50-acre competi-
tion plot. Yaiulilla King was seeded in May
—4slb. seed and 1201 b. manure to the acre.
Last year Parkinson won the championship
with 424 bushels, and was second in 1920
with 37 bushels. His property was selected
in 1921 at 325. Od. per acre. He farms on
eastern-State principles with early, well-
worked fallow, a. heavy dressing of manure,
and later seeding. Oats follow wheat in
rotation. The area cropped is 200 to 300
acres. M. P. 11. Davis, of the same district,
working on similar lines, this year averaged
35 bushels over 240 acres.
SOWING PASTURE LAND.
“Wrecksby”: Grazing lands that are prac-
tically valueless can be made valuable by
sowing them as permanent pastures. There
are three instances in my district (Burra-
doo, N.S.W.) where land that was carrying
poor feed three years ago could not be sold
at £5 per acre. Now that the same land
carries permanent pasture grasses, offers
of up to £4O per acre are being made for it.
The best way to establish grass is to treat
it as a crop and prepare the land accordingly.
It will do best if sown in the autumn on a
well-worked summer fallow, and a dressing
of about 3cwt. to the acre of bonedust will
be valuable. The seed should be broadcast,
covered with light harrows and finally rolled.
The sown paddock must be closed for at
least 12 months to allow each seasonal grass
to grow. Grazing can be commenced the
second year, when another paddock should be
establishing itself.
It is essential that seed should be obtained
from a reliable source that will guarantee it
to be clean and free from weed seeds. The
following mixtures are recommended
For coastal lands — Paspalum dilatatum or
P. compressum (carpet grass), 31b.; Cocks-
foot, 101 b.; Rhodes, 31b.; white clover, 21b.;
Prairie, 21b. Total, 201 b. of mixed seed to the
acre.
For cool and cold districts —Perennial rye,
151 b.; Prairie, 101 b.; Cocksfoot, 51b. ; Ken-
tucky blue, 31b.; mixed fescues, 21b.; Dogs-
tail, lib.; Rib, 11b.; Red and white clovers
mixed, 31b. Total, 401 b. mixed seed to the
acre.
For warm to hot districts with a fair aver-
age rainfall —Prairie, 101 b.; Carpet, 51b.;
Kentucky blue, 41b.; Cocksfoot, 51b.; Peren-
nial and Italian rye mixed, 101 b.; Rib, 21b.;
Dogstail, lib.; Red and white clovers mixed,
31b. Total. 401 b. of mixed seed to the acre.
Poor pastures can be improved with one
of the above mixtures, suitable to the dis-
trict, by scratching the land with the tooth
harrows and rolling after the seed has been
sown, but the crop will not be as satisfactory
as cultivating and resting could provide.
LUPINS IN WESTRALIA.
“R.D.A.”: For years in Westralia the
wild lupin has grown luxuriantly in the
midland districts (roughly the area enclosed
between Perth, Northam and Geraldton),
where shrewd and observant individuals
have quietly profited by its fattening and
soil-benefiting properties.
The value of lupin in giving agricultural
value to sandy soils is now getting general
attention, and the West Australian offers
£3OOO for district competitions in lupin
growing.
In other parts of the world, notably in
Prussian Silesia, lupins have played a very
important part in the reclamation of sterile
sandy areas. The practice is to plough them
under as green manure when in full flower.
The lupin is an annual legume, and will not
thrive in a limestone soil. It is best adapted
to sandy granitic soils and can stand a
great diversity of climate. Frost is its worst
enemy, and it requires 20in. or more of rain
to yield well. Early growth is slow.
The varieties generally used for agricul-
tural purposes are the yellow and the blue.
The blue is not greatly harmed by the
presence of a little lime in the soil, but the
yellow will not stand the slightest trace.
As the pods, when ripe and the sun hot
enough, burst and scatter the seed, they
can be planted in rows about 10 feet apait.
Sow in autumn, using 201 b. of seed to the
acre.
There is no need to prepare the soil—in
fact, it is a waste of money; burn off the
grass, if any, in March and sow on the bui *1
with a good rain—the little potash so ob-
tained will help. The seed can be sown
through a drill, and, in spite of its distaste
for lime, an application of up to lcwt. of
super, per acre, sown with the. seed, lia»
proved beneficial. It must be admitted, how-
ever, that the question of fertilising is one
that must be further tested in Australia.
If it is desired to get a thick stand imme-
diately, sow a bushel (621 b.) per acre, using
every hoe of the drill, but in no case sow
deep.
If the stock are kept off it the first two
years and careful stocking resorted to after-
wards, there is no reason why a good stand
should not fatten four sheep to the acre
and hold them fat for four months, besides
reseeding itself; but gradually, as the texture
and fertility of the soil improves, the lupin
thins out —then is the time to use the land
for other crops, for the lupin has served its
purpose. Sheep will not eat the lupin green,
but fatten on the dry pods and seeds.
LAMBS FOR EXPORT.
“Squaremile”: There are indications that
there will be an improvement in the fat
lamb export trade shortly, and the grazier
must consider what breed of longwool he
will select to produce the lamb. On the
principle .that there should be two strings
to the bow, it is a good policy for the
average grazier to build up his breeding flock
on the basis of merino ewes. The grower
has the advantage of a return from the good
wool of his ewes as a supplement to the
return from lambs. A big-framed strong-
wool merino ewe will yield a splendid lamb
mated to the sire which does best on the
particular grazing country concerned.
The first sire to consider is the Lincoln.
It is an outstanding sheep, and its merits
are appreciated by all wdio have had ex-
experience in cross-breeding. The progeny
is a big active lamb with a vigorous con-
stitution, and it goes on growing and im-
proving from birth. At five months old it
is as weighty as any lamb should be, and it
carries a better quality of wool than any
other cross known. The chief drawback of
the Lincoln is the liability of loss y at lamb-
ing time. That may be avoided to a great
extent by restricting the size of the breed-
ing flock so that the grazier is able, to give
it careful attention. The lamb is larger
than a merino lamb, and we are therefore
asking rather much of Nature during lamb-
ing time. The ewe must be in good health,
and certainly not over-fat. It is much easier
to keep a merino ewe in reasonably good
condition than it is to do the same for her
cross-bred progeny. As soon as the lamb is
born the ewe should be put on to the best
feed possible. She will have all she can do
responding to the demand of her lamb, which
will grow with remarkable rapidity if it gets
all the nourishment it can consume. The
saying that “half the breeding goes down
the throat” is never truer than when applied
to cross-bred lambs.
The Border Leicester sire has many ad-
mirers, its outstanding feature being its
shapeliness, which takes the eye of the
butcher. No breed has a more shapely hind-
quarter, the “leg-of-mutton” being particu-
larly good. There, is much less risk of loss
at lambing time with the Border Leicester
than with the Lincoln, owing to the much
smaller head and shoulder. The lamb thrives
very well, and at five months old provides
a very attractive carcase. The wool of the
B.L. has greatly improved of late years, and
there is not the discrepancy between it and
the Lincoln that there used to be. It is not
so coarse as the Lincoln, and consequently
commands a higher price, though the Lincoln,
with its extra weight of fleece, still gives
the bigger cheque.
The English Leicester also has its sup-
porters. Mr. Nock, president of the F. and S.
Association, who has had great success as
a fat-lamb producer, prefers this cross. They
are not so big as either of the foregoing sires,
and the lambs want every possible assistance,
in the way of good pastures, if they are to
attain maximum size. Their wool is even
finer than the 8.L., but the fleece is not so
weighty. While they are a very good lamb
I can only rank them a very creditable third
to the two already considered.
A feature about breeding from any of
these three sires is that the resultant ewe,
if not sold as a fat lamb, will be always
saleable as a breeder to those who will use
her for mating with a Ryeland, Southdown
or Dorset Horn ram for producing a still
more shapely lamb than those already con-
sidered. A great drawback of the last-named
sires is that the wool of the lamb is of no
great value as compared with those already
discussed. If a grower were sure of a fat
lamb every year, the use of these sires
would be preferable, but in the event of
a bad season and consequently no fat lambs
he would not fare as well as with the other
breeds. In the close-in districts, where the
rainfall is reliable and the grower is in a
position to cultivate so as to keep his lambs
growing, Ryeland, Southdown or D.H. sires
mated with a ewe of the cross of one of
the first three breeds mentioned produces
the ideal fat lamb.
ACIDOSIS IN SHEEP.
“Ovis”: “Pregnancy disease” or acidosis
is a condition affecting ewes from 10 days
to a fortnight before lambing. It is non-
infectious and non-contagious. Ewes that
are in lamb, if on dry feed or fairly dry
feed, or are being hand-fed with chaff and
grain, are very susceptible to this disease.
They take very little exercise and become
constipated, which is a predisposing cause.
The first noticeable symptom is that the
affected ewe lags behind the rest of the flock,
often poking away in a corner by herself.
She will appear dull and off her feed. When
approached she w'ill take little or no notice,
even if a dog is present. When an attempt
is made to drive her, she will move off very
slowly and usually in an aimless manner.
Later she will show signs of nervousness,
and grind her teeth. The mouth will be
clammy. She may show a tendency to walk
in a circle or to stand with her head pressed
against a stump or fence post. At first the
sight is affected only partially, but later the
ewe becomes apparently quite blind. As
the disease progresses she will gradually
become indifferent to her surroundings, and
will in all probability be found down and
unable to rise. When lifted she will stand
listlessly. If forced to move she will stagger
a short distance and fall. Towards the end
she will pass into almost complete coma,
and may nave convulsions or spasms when
disturbed. A frothy discharge may issue
from both nose and mouth. The head may
rest naturally on the ground or be turned
back towards the body. Breathing is some-
what accelerated, but the temperature re-
mains normal throughout. The time of the
first onset of the disease until death may
vary from one to ten days, but the disease
is usually not recognised until well into the
later stages.
In the treatment of this disease no con-
clusive results have been obtained. If de-
livery can be induced, recovery is rapid.
Prevention is better than cure. Avoid a
purely dry feed ration and supply the ewes
with a good lick, which will stimulate the
digestive organs, assist the passage of the
food through the intestinal tract, and thus
prevent the accumulation and absorption of
toxines. Exercise is necessary as it stimu-
lates the kidneys and liver, and keeps them
functioning properly. To ensure that the
sheep get the necessary exercise it may be
necessary to muster and drive them a mile or
two each day.
BUYING A HORSE.
“Orphan”: Buying a horse at auction is
always more or less of a gamble. It’s best
to buy a horse you know, or one whose owner
will allow a fair trial. If you do have to
buy at auction, here are a few tips.
A horse that has been ricked in the back
finds it practically impossible to walk back-
wards. Examine the eyes for cataract. A
blind eye sees no movement, therefore test
each eye separately with a quick wave or
turn, of the hand. Look at the eyes, too, for
the slightest speck of white on the pupil
means the commencement of cataract. Look
at the foreleg pastern joints for ring-bone,
and the coronets (situated just above the top
of the hoof) for side bones. The latter will
feel like small pellets.
While pulling the horse’s head towards
you make a pretence of hitting at his flank.
If the horse jumps sidewards with a groan
you may be reasonably sure his wind is
affected. Look out for sore shoulders; they
are always troublesome to cure, and some-
times incurable.
Running the fingers down the canon-bone
will tell you if the animal has enlarged
splints. Examine the hocks for any sign of
curb. “Thrush” is a disease of the frog.
Clean out the feet with a piece of wire and
smell the wire. If the horse is affected
you will be aware of a particularly un-
pleasant smell.
SUGGESTED HORSE CROSSES.
“Bad Australian” : Present conditions are
favorable to the re-establishment of our ex-
port trade in horses adapted to military
requirements, but owing to the scarcity of
suitable stock for breeding purposes several
years must elapse before any considerable
number of animals would be available for
shipment. There are very few of the old
type 12-15 stone hacks to be found nowadays,
and, considering the gazelle-like proportions
of the majority of present-day blood stock,
the quickest way to get back to something
approaching the weight-carrying hack and
stock horse of 20 or 25 years ago would be


V<fs
%
A special Abbey
Boot
With black or tan upper in
leather of unusually high quality
—the most pliant and durable
kind. The tough soles are made
to flex comfortably.
SIZES Three fittings, narrow,
medium and wide, are available
in each full and half-size. No
- “breaking in.” This boot fits
like “made-to-order.”
LACING—Does up closely and
evenly without any discomfort
because the upper curves over
the instep arch.
POSTAL ORDERS—State both
width and size needed. Ask also
for a supply of the correct quick-
shining Abbey Polish 6d. per
tin, all shades.
TAN WILLOW CALF, 57/6
BLACK GLACE KID, 57/6
BLACK BOX CALF, 52/6
Enlarged catalogue post free on request.
ABBEY
Established over 81 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
L. 114
BIRKMYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade-mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn,
and prices on application.
Samples
TUB
GOOROCKKLTD.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic.
SAFETY
RAZOR
Made of a spec ial steel with extra
keen edges, being specially suited
for stiff beards.
KIRBY BEARD & O’ Ltd
@ *
63>8aav3a-AaMi>i
pi i
lv I R B Y-
B E A 1C D
RAZORS
give full protection without ob-
structing the cutting edges. Easy
to clean and require no adjustment.
Kirby, Beard & Co., Ltd., Ravenhurst Works, Birming-
ham, England. Also London, Redditch and Paris.
Australian Agent: 11. E. UTTLEY.
Margaret Ilou=e, 2H2 George Street, Sydney.
[ C/se a BjEARD'to shave a beard
ŵ
GUYATTS
ANATOMICAL
ARCH
SUPPORTS
WEAK ankles, tired or
fiat feet, bunions and
all foot troubles are
treated effectively and
thoroughly with Guyatt’s
special appliances. Light and
comfortable. Write for Self-
measurement Form
Dept. If.
GUYATT & CO.
257 a George St., S' - ' 1
FOR THE
SKIN AND SCALP
ftfc
11
1
(TiiniMiTi
jyu*a. irlSfa/rruAxrfl, tfoyi.
m
Can Be Obtained
In Two Sizes
From dealers everywhere. For
eczemas, rashes, pimples and all skin
irritations, it is soothing and healing,
especially when assisted by Cuticura
Soap. Bathe with the Soap and hot
water, dry gently, and anoint with
the Ointment. Unexcelled in purity,
Cuticura Soap and Ointment are re-
garded by millions as unrivaled in
the promotion of skin health.
Soap Is., Talcum 15. 3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
DO YOU WANT TO EARN MORE MONEY?
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession in life. A profession in
which competition is limited and which offers wonderful opportunities if you have any ability
and are persevering. Our tuition gives opportunities to students not to be found elsewhere.
Write for our booklet, telling of positions, salaries and fees, to-day. Start your new career NOW.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £250,000
ALL CLASSES OF INSURANCE EFFECTED.
Probate Disability, Extended Insurance, Non-Forfeiture,
Hospital, Medical and Nurse’s Fees Combined.
Make the event which causes the tax create the cash to pay the tax.
HEAD OFFICE: Hunter House, 26 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
A. McLEAN, Managing Director. R. V. BOOTH, Secretary.
INQUIRIES INVITED.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND AND FINANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
SYDNEY. Also at WAGGA & HENTY, LONDON, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE.
Auction Sales f WOOL, FAT STOCK, GRAIN, SHEEPSKINS,
Throughout the Year \ HIDES, TALLOW, FURRED SKINS, etc.
Cash Advances on Pastoral Properties and Stock, Wool, Grain and Produce,.
Offices: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney. JAMES KIDD, General Manager for Australia.
W&W26.
AUSTRALIAN
RHB
London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRANt
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
to mate a medium-sized Clydesdale, Suffolk
Punch or Perclieron with such blood mitres
as may be available, and then, by mating the
fillies resulting from this cross with a good
type of thoroughbred, a fine active weight-
carrier good for an all-day journey with 14
or 15 stone up would be produced.
A fair percentage of the first cross would
be strong active animals capable of carrying
15 or 16 stone with ease, and those which
showed too much of the sire’s influence to
make good remounts would give excellent
service as artillery horses.
The sire used should be of compact build,
with good free action and plenty of spirit.
He should be possessed of good bone, clean
symmetrical legs, well-shaped hocks free from
curb, and sound feet, as far removed from
the soup-plate type as possible. He should
be short and round in the barrel, well ribbed
up, and strongly quartered with a wide deep
chest, sloping shoulders, high withers, a good
rein and crest and a neat head with short
well-set cars. I have seen some excellent
cavalry horses bred on lines similar to those
indicated by using a Perclieron for the first
cross and an Arab for the second.
MANGOLDS FOR DAIRY FARMERS.
“Dardadoo” ; Mangolds, or mangel-wurzels,
make a valuable crop for the dairy-farmer,
as these roots supply an excellent ration for
cows, and there is nothing better for topping
up pigs. All classes of stock relish mangolds
and do well on them. The crop is a gross
feeder, and because of this arid the size of
the roots, very deep and thorough cultivation
is necessary. Sandy soils seldom provide a
good crop,' but loams well supplied with
potash should yield at least 20 tons to the
acre.
The first ploughing should be at least
12in. deep, and a second ploughing of Bin.
before the ground is broken down for sowing
is desirable. The most suitable fertiliser is
one containing 2cwt. super., lewt. sulphate
of potash and lewt. dried blood, making
4cwt. to the acre. Mammoth Long Red
is generally regarded as the best variety,
and the seed should be sown in March or
August with the turnip drill, in rows 3ft.
apart at the rate of 71b. to the acre. The
crop takes about six months to mature. Thin
the rows with the corner of the chipping
hoe, or by hand, when the plants arc about
3in. high, so that the roots arc 12in. apart.
Cultivation should be discontinued when
the plants are about 6in. high to avoid inter-
fering with the roots, as a damaged root
will bleed freely and quickly deteriorate.
The roots can be pitted the same way as
Swedes if this is done with care, but they
can be smelt a long way off, especially in
wet weather, and should not be located near
the homestead.
Slice the roots and mix them with bran
and the big leafy tops for cows and other
animals, except pigs, which prefer the whole
plant as it is. Mangolds have a high nutri-
tive value. The chemical analysis is (per
cent.) water 90.9, ash 1.1, protein 1.4, carbo-
hydrates 6.4 and fat 0.2.
BONELESS VEAL.
“Nitric”: Maoriland has beaten Australia
as far as the value for export of poddy
calves is concerned. The Boneless Yeal and
By-products Co., of Auckland, is in the second
year of operation, and disposed of over
100,000 calves last year. The skins are sent
to America. As the bulk of the calves are
from seven to ten days old the flesh is con-
sidered unfit for human consumption jn
many countries, but there is an unlimited
demand for it in European Continental coun-
tries. The flesh is removed from the bones,
pressed into blocks, frozen, bagged and
shipped to Europe, returning up to Is. per
pound. The by-products (livers, etc.) give
a good return, and the bones are converted
into gelatine or fertiliser. It’s a highly
profitable business.
CARE OF THE HORSE’S BACK.
“Wrash”; Sore backs on horses are usually
the result of sweat boils after the back has
been heated by saddle pressure. To prevent
them, bathe the horse’s back with cold water
immediately upon removing the saddle. If,
in spite of this precaution, they appear, clip
the hair around the boil and use sulphur
ointment. With an awl work away the
saddle stuffing to form a depression over the
spot, and continue using the horse. If,
however, there is a tendency for the back to
swell around the boil, the prad had better
be spelled, otherwise a fistula might put
him out of action for good.
Sore shoulders almost invariably are the
result of chafing from ill-fitting or care-
lessly arranged harness. Have close but
neatly-fitting collars, and hames buckled
to grip the collar groove firmly. Guard
against burrs, bunches of mane, or hame
straps getting under the collar, and above
all see that the traces are of equal length.
Especially after the harness has been re-
paired should the equality of the traces be
regulated. One trace a quarter of an inch
shorter than the other is sure to cause a
sore, shoulder on that side.
Girth galls are due to sweat-hardened
girths. Wash the girths frequently with
soap and warm water, and soften them with
neatsfoot oil.
DEFREEZING.
“Cooper’s Creek”: For many years
attempts have been made to solve the diffi-
culties of thawing frozen meat so as to pre-
serve the properties of the fresh article, but
none have been completely successful. Ex-
periments in freezing and thawing out con-
ducted at the low-temperature research sta-
tion at Cambridge Uni. lately have shown
that if the process is not hurried none of the
natural properties of fresh beef are lost. Tbe
process extends over 80 days, which means
considerable delay in putting the meat on
the market, to say nothing of the expense of
storing and of the process itself. However,
any means which may result in the British
consumers overcoming their present stubborn
prejudice against frozen beef and mutton
W 1” be welcomed by Australian producers,
even if it involves considerable preliminary
expense and the readjustment of shipping and
marketing methods.
HINTS FOII THE FARM.
“S.H.”: When planting out cabbages snip
off the tops of the outer leaves, and the
young plants will strike immediately without
wilting.
“H.M.” : To pick the best layers in the
poultry flock, watch for the hens which are
last on the perches and first off them and
are always scratching in the litter through
the daytime.
“Bufforp”: Mule ducks are a paying pro-
position, the favorite crosses being between
the Muscovy and the Pekin or Aylesbury.
They mature quickly, growing to a great
size and commanding good prices. But you
must keep pure strains for breeders. Mules
won’t breed.
“Gaco” : If a horse gets a bad cut with
barbed wire or is staked, Stockholm tar is a
safe dressing. Then turn the horse into
the lucerne, look at it every day to see it
is all right, don't mess about with the
wound, and in a few days a remarkable
improvement will be noticed.
“A.R.8.: Here is a reliable recipe for
soft putty: Mix together 201 b. whiting,
one gill of salad oil, gill of raw linseed
oil and 21b. of white lend. A thorough
kneading is essential. To bring it to the
necessary consistency add raw linseed oil.
When made, place in a basin or tin and
keep covered with water, and it will always
be ready for use.
“Burra”: This method of curing meat is
more effective than dry-salting: Take a
kerosene tin of boiling brine of such a
consistency that a potato will float in it.
Put the meat in it and boil for 10 minutes.
Then leave it in the brine till it cools off,
and pickle as soon as possible. Meat cured
this way will be tender and will keep in
the hottest localities.
“Spike”: Somebody recently advised
cockies in hilly country to shorten their
stirrup leathers to ' prevent their hacks
developing sore backs. My advice is don't.
Riding too short means adding perhaps a
couple of stone of dead weight on to a
horse’s back, and may result in permanent
injury. Always ride long, and when as-
cending a steep incline stand up in the
stirrups. If you are unable to balance grab
a handful of mane.
“Alron”: Here’s a simple test for soil
acidity. In a clean glass or cup, make a
thin mud of the soil with rain water. Into
this mud push a strip of blue litmus paper
(obtainable from any chemist), using a clean
knife or spoon and leaving one end of the
paper protruding. In ten minutes remove the
paper and wash it in rain water. If the color
has changed to pink or pinkish, sourness
is indicated; if the color is unchanged, the
soil is not sour. Lime is required to correct
acidity.
“T.M.”: Hens which have finished laying
and are starting to moult should not be
given maize. A morning mash of pollard
(one part) and bran (two parts), green
feed at mid-day (in cases where there isn’t
a grass run) and wheat and a sprinkling of
linseed at night should be their menu.
“R.X.8.”: To prevent birds gobbling up
your new-sown seed soak the seed in water
for ten minutes before sowing. Immerse
about half a bushel each time, each lot
being in a loose meshed bag. Then spread
the seed on a hard floor and dry it by
mixing it with superphosphate. Whether the
super, adhering to the seed deceives the birds,
or whether they don’t like the taste of it I
don’t know, but the method lias proved to
be very successful.
“Burra” : To make a fence that will keep
out fox or dingo, have your posts
74ft. long, and set them 2-Jft. in the ground
and about 15 or 16 feet apart. Stretch a
barb-wire on the ground, carefully grading
all holes and depressions so that the wire
hugs the ground. Three inches above this
is 36in. of wire-netting with a 4in. tri-
angular mesh; sin. higher, barb-wire; Gin.
above that another barb, and another 7in.
higher. This has proved very effective.
“R.G. J.”: Here’s a tip for coastal dairy-
farmers who have had paspalum paddocks
flooded lately. The matted growth that most
farmers value as a cloak against frost and
consider a protection for undergrass quickly
browns if water has covered it even for a
day or so. Lying flat on the ground, it
covers the field like a blanket, preventing
evaporation of surface water and assisting in
decay. Last February, as soon as the flood
waters receded, I ran a fire through two pad-
docks and succeeded in getting a good growth
of grass before winter came on. One paddock
I didn’t burn remained useless till spriiig.
“Mulga”: When sheep have not taken
salt lick before, a good way to start them
is to chop down a few branches from an
edible tree and put a few branches round
each trough, with a few leaves on the lick.
Lucerne scattered in the same way is equally
effective. Renew the greenstuff whenever
necessary for about a week or 10 days, and
in nearly all cases the stock by this time
will have acquired a taste for the lick.
“J. 8.”: Crown pumpkins will keep all
right if one simple precaution is taken.
When carting the pumpkins from the pad-
dock take care not to break the stems off.
“Johnny W.” : An effective treatment for
broken horns of sheep that have become fly-
blown is to clean out the infected horn with
a piece of straw and give it a good bathing
in blue-stone and water. Then plug the
horn up with wool dipped in Stockholm tar
and a little castor oil and kerosene. The
horn must not be plugged very tightly, or it
will hurt the sheep.
“J.G.”: Trees and shrubs that do not
readily grow from cuttings can be increased
by layering. A branch or twig is bent to
the ground and formed into a loop about a
foot from the end. The loop is buried in the
soil two or three inches deep, held in place
by hairpin-shaped wires, and kept thus till
it has struck root and’ firmly established
itself, when the branch may be severed from
the parent plant and the young offshoot
transplanted. If the buried portion is split
-with a knife just above a bud before it is
placed in the soil it will root more readily.
If it is not possible to bring a limb or
twig to the ground, a flower-pot or cut-
down kerosene tin can be filled with soil
and stood within reach of the branch. The
pot should be watered in dry weather, and
if a tin is used one or two holes should be
punched in its bottom. Most plants if layered
now will provide strong rooted plants in
spring.


ẁ
Prove it Yourself
Ve wilt take you
lllß wW'J® u
' fiet behind the *
out in
drive
'Vewan
t every "W
ẃ
GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PI


•5
ẅ
ymr-
RMmM
'•••• Nl£k
, Jr
SILVER ANNIVERSARY
BUICK
Lane’
Metropolitan Distributors:
s Motors Pty., Ltd. Sydney: Boyd Edkins, Ltd.
Adelaide: Vivian Lewis, Ltd. Perth: E. D. Toe
Brisbane: Metropolitan Motors, Ltd.
Motors, Ltd.
LTD. Melbourne —Sydney— Brisbane —Adelaide —Perth


centre of Queensionc/s
C_v j£\ c/is/mgu/shoc/ Soc/c// Life.
mmm
Wote I
** BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
V
;rrs ~.
y
1
ST?
i
M B V,„
m ; v
“Its Quality Never Changes.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
Monday io Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/6.
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 15/-, or
a la carte, minimum, 15/-
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Jack Woods’ Ambassadors Dance
Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.i». ’Phone: M 4131.
SMOKE-OH!
This idea of running Australia on bor-
rowed money is an I O Utopian one.
V V
“The Melbourne police are investigating
no less than 12 undiscovered crimes.” There’s
no arrest for the wicked.
DADDY HAD MISSED IT.
MURIEL: “Daddy, I must have money to buy a trousseau with.”
DADDY: “Nonsense, child—wait till you’re engaged.”
MURIEL: “Come off, Daddy! Don’t you ever read the papers!”
Sydney Sun : “They are both alive, but
are living in Melbourne.” A subtle Sydney
method of saying they might as well be
dead.
* *
There are two Bills before the Federal
Parliament that Prime Minister Bruce would
like to get rid of —one comes from North
Sydney, the other from Balaclava.
THINGS SEEN.
[From the Daily Yap.]
A prize of £5 is awarded each day by
the Daily Yap to the reader who sends in
the most interesting news item.
In addition, with the object of encourag-
ing enterprise and news sense in our readers,
we will pay a minimum of 7s. 6d. for all
news stories published.
To-day’s £5 prize goes to Mrs. O. Smiff,
of Cremorne, who ’phoned first information
of the demise of her son Willie. Willie,
aged 12, had got as far as the Spit hill in
his father’s Buick before the accident
occurred. (Full story with theory of
how deceased broke into garage on page
7.)
Other prize-winners are :
Mr. I. S. Izaakes, of Jowby-lane, City,
for particulars of a mysterious fire which
completely gutted his premises. (See
story elsewhere.)
Miss Lyzette Litecloes, of the Gayety
Theatre, for story, with exclusive photo-
graphs, of her attempted suicide. (Sec pic-
torial section.)
Mr. William (“Billo”) Sikes, of Surry
Hills, for first news (with plans) of a daring
burglary at Mosman.
Mr. James Henne, of Meak-street, Ash-
field, who although unable, through uncon-
trollable laughter, to make himself under-
stood on the telephone, despatched a messen-
ger to this office with first information of
his mother-in-law’s fatal fall down a lift-
well. (On page 3 our artist has drawn a
clever conception of the happening.)
A special payment of Id. was made to eacli
of the 270 pupils of Kaynum Superior Public
School who supplied details of the severe
thrashing administered to their headmaster
by an irate mother. The
stories of the children
—some of them mere
toddlers indicated
that one and all had
concentrated deeply on
the episode. Not a
single material point,
from the first words
spoken by the mother
to the stage at which
her umbrella broke on
the dominie’s head,
was missed. (Photo
of typical irate Aus-
tralian mother with
umbrella in Woman’s
Section. )
Get that news item
and send it to the Yap.
R. E. Porter.
* *
“A visitor from the
country was robbed
while driving to the
city in a taxi-cab.” As
a rule the driver waits
till his taxi stops.
Mr. Hughes de-
nounces the National-
ists as a “Stand-Pat
party.” An even more
serious objection is
said to be that it is
also a “Won’t-stand-
Bill” party.
The new Chinese
Consul-General is in-
vestigating the possi-
bility of securing a
supply of Australian
sleepers' for his Gov-
ernment. Civil ser-
vants are understood
to be applying for the
position in droves.
Orchardists at Temora (N.S.W.) propose
to scare birds from the fruit trees by special
sounds broadcast from Sydney wireless
stations. Listeners-in think that the ordi-
nary programmes would be sufficient.
The A.L.P. Conference decided that “M’s.P.
must address their constituents at least
twice a year.” And thereby nullified the
Government’s considerate conduct in remov-
ing the politicians to Canberra.
Brisbane item :—“Certain telephone sub-
scribers here have been cut off for four days.”
But the young lady should have finished the
novel by now.
* *
Sydney Sun : “Where do Test-match cric-
ket balls go after use?” Some of our bats-
men would rather know where they go when
in play.
* *
Their hands first met and then their lips.
Alas, for man’s deceit!
lie did not favor partnerships,
And now their lawyers meet.
THE MODERN WAY.
BILL (to hotel clerk):
"I want a room for me
an' my companionale wife."
ŵ
THE LIE OF THE WEEK.
There was once a male-flapper who found
his motor-bike too noisy and sold it.
* *
POSTPONING IT.
The chapel's walls were wooden, and bore
the mark of time;
The rafters showed the work of ants; m
short, ’twas past its prime.
Yet cautious age and reckless youth alike
were gathered there
To hear the parson lift his voice in sermon,
hymn and prayer.
“ I’d like to be an angel fair, and with the
angels stand,”
So sang the congregation, and the parson
said “It’s grand!”
And then a sudden blizzard shook the build-
ing to its core,
And straightaway the singers made a bce-
. line for the door.
The parson ceased commending them, and
followed in their flight.
He leap-frogged o’er the smaller ones, flung
others left and right,
And reached the street at last, observing
with a sickly smile,
We’d all like to be angels fair, but not just
yet awhile.
V.G.D.
THE TEST SPIRIT.
Proud nations may be humbled to the dust,
And crowns and sceptres thrown aside to
rust;
Black Mars his bloody hand may lift once
more,
And vultures croak the litany of war;
Fire, flood and drought wage devastating
toll
While politicians screech from Pole to Pole —
All pale to insignificance before
Thai everlasting query: “What’s th’ score?"
D. McM.
MY HERO.
One of the bravest men I’ve met
Now walks round Sydney town,
Though he may never credit get
For his deeds of renown.
Some say he’s friendly with the cops,
Some that he has them beat;
But, anyhow, he freely drops
Tram-tickets in the street.
DORIC.
THE EARS ED DITCH.
(A Voracious Storey of the War.)
“A suburb Ack of Heroism!” thundered
the Gennerul. “Suburb!” And as an arfter-
tliort, “Dammy!”
The Complimentary Referrence was to
Our Hero, who was standing on the Para-
dox of. the Trench catching the Bombs
Bunged by the Roothless Huns and Bunging
them Back Again. A Moment befor the
possitin had Appered Hopeless. Every
Brittish Bomb had been Thrun, and Lion
on Lion of Germans were dashing to the
attack. Quick as thort our Ilero has Leeped
on the Paradox and started llerling Difians
and Insults at the Approching Foe. Stung
to Frenzie the Bludthirsty ennimies of the
Human Race had started Herling their
Bombs at him, thus
falling into His Suttle
trap.
But how comes it that
our llero is here at all?
Becaus he had refused
to Wash behined the
Ears, the cowardly Cap-
tain Pawly had Orderd
him to be Shot At Dawn.
Ralph Rashly had Sub-
mitted to the Dreadful
Doom, and Allowed him-
self to be Marched away
to Ivlink.
Follered the Call to
Arms!
And now Ralph Ob-
sirved thrugh his Prison
Bars that the rope hold-
ing a Captive Bloon had
been Cut by Shell fire,
and the Bloon, from which
the Okkupants were Proo-
dently throwing them-
selves in Parraslioots,
was being Blown towards
the Enemy lines.
“If I could but Catch
that trailing Rope, which
will parse over this Klink,
I could Reetch my Cum-
rades in the Line,”
brooded Ralph.
No sooner said than
done.
Hastily calling the other prisoners he got
the strongest to stand on the ground, the
Next Strongest upon his Sholders and so
on. Then he Clumb on to the Sholders of
the Top man, Forty feet from the Ground.
Alars! the rope was still Too High! It
dankled a full 12 Feet away. Our undornted
Hero gave a Cry of “Now!” The bottom
man jumped Two Feet into the Air. the
Next man another two feet, and so did All
the others. It was now our Hero’s tern. With
a Loud Yell of “Advarnce Australia Fair!”
he lept another six feet and just Caught the
Rope!
The Prisoners —though some were Seri-
ously Injured by their Fall—cheered lusterly
as Our Hero Sored grasefully towards the
Line.
“Put him down for an M.B.E. and Bar.”
roared the Generali to his Ajurtant as Ralph
landed five minuts later in the seemingly
Doomed Trench.
This was how Ralph came to be Bombing
the Huns, as mentioned at the Start of our
Tail. And now he makes a Fresh Move.
The Germans have begun to Wavver. Manny
throw up their Craven Hands.
“Let every man take a German Rifle and
ammewnition,” commandeered Ralph. “Then,
holding a Dead German in front of him as
a Shield, let him foller me!”
It was a Brilliant Tliougt. In a moment
all was over; the German Flyte became a
Debarkel.
As the Victorious Troops returned, Cheer-
ing, to the Trench, they were met by the
Generrul.
“I have seen the Hole Heroic Deed.” he
rored. “But where is Captain Pawly?”
“He wanted to Surrender, so I orderred
Corporal Hevvywate to sit on his Chest,”
said the Sergeant. “Unfortunately the Cor-
poral was too hevvy. Captain Pawly is
now with His Maker.”
“You did well,” howled the General. “He
who Surenders is Deserving to Dye. As
there is a Vaccancy for a Captain I hereby
SERVICE WITH A SMILE.
“Those sausages I bought this morning nearly strangled me!”
“Well, I’ll give yer another pound.”
appoint the hoy you know as Private Ralph
Rashly to fill it.”
Three Harty British Cheers announced the
Popularty of this Just Decision.
Nor was that All. Ralph, while patting
on the Deceesed Captain’s tunic, found the
Missing Will, which showed that Our Hero
was Soul Air to the Cashitall Estates.
Thus was the Emnity of the Renagade
Officer explained.
HAMER, JUNIOR.


mor*'**' 9
*****
>
*
JU,
Y
&
vn
/
-
I
nS»
t
>A
"3v\^
'■w
f iv
K.
f
U
)>
u.
«.
a
y<\
Sr-j
m
v,
,S3MaO3 f
SaajdOJ*^
ẁ
E have borne with corkscrews for what
▼ V seems an eternity—simply because, in the
case of Johnnie Walker, what lay behind the
cork was worth it!
But how we hated corkscrews, nevertheless.
To-day, we drink to their banishment, and
honour the Johnnie Walker cork stopper , with
the milled cap , that can be instantly drawn. It’s
a real cork, mind you, to give security to the
precious spirit in a Johnnie Walker bottle. One
twist of the finger and thumb, and there is
released for particular palates, the finest blend
of matured Scotch Whiskies that ever a cork
restrained.
JOHNNIE
WAWK.ER
WHISKY
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, LONDON, and KILMARNOCK


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
I
11
W
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
20
INTEREST-BEARING FAITH
The person who is faithful to his Savings Acount, year after year,
permitting compound interest to add its cumulative power, has a
far better chance of acquiring something substantial than the
person who habitually speculates on “Sure Things.
The race is rarely to the swift.
One thing is certain—there is no magic about accumulation, there
are few short cuts, and most of those are dangerous.
It is best after all to find out the. surest way, the cumulative way,
and then stick doggedly to it—with interest added at 4% p.a.
Every Post Office is a Savings Bank Agency.
(flbmmonwcaltb Savmgslank of Australia
(Guaranteed bv the Commonwealth Government).
Jtiohl opposite
iiiiilwuy Sttitton/
IJIIILUHBIUU
To meet you as you enter
Adelaide; to make your stay
one of unlimited pleasure;
to give the fullest measure of
“Service,” the Grosvenor is
the best situated and finest
equipped hotel in Adelaide.
>GROSVENOR
r zJdelaides Finest Unlicensed Field
Opp. Railway Stn..
A ROGUE IN AMBER
By- J.B. COOPER
Illustrations by-Percy Liivdsay-
Synopsis ; Antonio Saccaco, a Nea-
politan, gets into trouble and flees to
Saris, where he finds hard work
disagreeable. A merry fellow, he
marries Jeannette Dior tier. Soon
afterwards he and a friend, Fran-
cois Neigre, murder und rob the
Baroness llellarosa; but Saccaco,
having the booty in his own hands,
allows his partner to fall into
the arms of the police. To Jeannette
he is indebted for his escape from
Paris. Twenty years later, under the
name of Carducci, lie is a travelling
hawker on the river Murray, with
Jeannette and tlicir handsome daughter
Marie living on board the launch.
Marie, whom Carducci designs to use
in his oicn money-making schemes,
has half fallen in love with Gerald
Deacon.
MRS. CARDUCCI had long looked to
Marie’s face to make her fortune.
And why not? Was Marie not beau-
tiful in the eyes of man? As for love, pouf!
She had no time for sentimental nonsense.
But who was this unknown young man?
Had he money, or was he likely to inherit
money? Beyond doubt in her mind was the
power in Marie to enslave any man to
whom the appeal of physical attractions in
woman was strong. Tony might be able to
find out something about the young man’s
prospects—but then again, might not Tony
spoil all their schemes!
Tony!—he was a sore trial to her; yet
without her how could he carry on his
trade? Did she not keep his books and
transact most of his business? Was she not
a wife of affairs, capable, industrious and
willing, in the way all good French wives
are? And yet much worry he made for
her! Had she let him go his own ways, and
not saved him from himself, he would
have been in Wentworth gaol more than
once!
And now he was becoming stupid. She
had lost patience with him. He wanted
the air of the Rue de la Roquette to
sharpen his wits and the Paris police to be
after him to make him listen and attend
to what she said. When there was danger,
like a frightened child he had clung to
her skirts; but not when he' had beer to
drink and his fiddle, for then the laughing,
silly fellow would attend to no one, but
only laugh and laugh, while others sang
and he played:
“Listen! Listen! Echoes sound afar,
Funiculi! Funicula!”
Mrs. Carducci had not told her daughter
that her father was a fugitive from justice,
nor had she said anything of the disreput-
able life he had led in Paris under the pre-
tence of being an innocent Italian selling
statues of saints. For years she had spoken
well of him to her daughter, and often she
had asked St. Catherine’s forgiveness for
the lies she had told concerning him. Bravely
she held the rotten fabric of their lives
together for her child’s sake.
How much there was in her life that ate
into her heart, that disturbed her sleep,
that made her thin and nervous with appre-
hension! How often had she to reassure
herself with the thought that they were
thousands of miles from Paris; and who,
twenty or more years afterwards, could
recognise Monsieur and Madame Saccaco,
of Paris, in Mr. and Mrs. Carducci, the
owners of the river boat in Mildura?
Surely the murder of the Baroness Bella-
rosa was' forgotten! Hundreds of murders
had been done in Paris since then. As for
Francois Neigre, he at any rate would not
cross their path again. He was buried alive
in New Caledonia, as surely as the Baroness
lay silent in her tomb in the Pere Lachaise
Cemetery. And Marie, her beloved child,
would never know that such things had
been.
Mrs. Carducci scoffed at her husband’s.
secret purpose to start some day a gambling
house in Naples, with Marie as a beautiful
decoy, to lure rich Englishmen to play
high and spend their money. A long-
fingered fool her husband was, who knew
not that time fled and that to-morrow was
not his! To-day Marie should make a
good marriage and her looks should be her
dot. Who knew it might not be that this
young man, Gerald Deacon, already an-
swering the lure of the smile on Marie’s
red love-lips, was the one to make Marie
happy and rich?
With such thoughts crowding through her
mind, Mrs. Carducci decided that there
would be no harm in Marie trying her
wings. But Marie must not fall in love.
No, no —not too much in love. That would
spoil everything.
“Love, Marie, pouf—what is love?”
asked Mrs. Carducci. “A man will swear
anything to win you. That is love! You
marry him, and then your eyes are opened.
He swears at you. Look at your mother,
ma petite! Your father said that if I
“The next moment the river peddler was lying in the dust oj Sonia-avenue.”
married him he would make me the queen
of Naples. I knew he lied, but I was
young, though not such a fool as he thought,
Non! Non! I married him. Soon he made
me cry. He made me work, so hard, so
long, carrying the saints for him. One
night in the rue I caught him making love
to another fool-woman. I heard him say
he would make her queen of Naples. That
was your father, Marie, who prayed to
the saints, and sold them, and then went to
confession when his sins grew too heavy,
It was a saints’ festa for your father, that
day he was promising to make another
queen of Naples. Not till we came to
ẅ
Carducci learnt on inquiry, that Gerald
had no more money than an allowance
his father made him. He was a student at
the Melbourne University, and spent his
vacations at Mildura with his father. The
scrapes he got into were subjects of gossip
in the town. Carducci told Marie not to
have anything to say to Gerald. If she
did not obey him he declared that they
would leave Mildura and go down the
river.
Marie was not fearful of her fathers
threat. He could do what he pleased—
she would not leave Mildura until she had
made Gerald’s acquaintance. He knew her
well by sight, at least. Often, when he
came visiting the house of her employers,
the Calcrofts, he had walked through the
vineyard and passed her at work between
the trellises. She had seen him in company
with Miss Betty Calcroft, who had stopped
and spoken to her, as she often did, for
Miss Calcroft appeared to be interested in
her, asking her if she was born in Italy
and declaring that Australian girls had not
such fine color. Then Miss Calcroft had
made a sketch of her holding a basket of
grapes. These things Marie felt sure Gerald
must know. She wondered if he was making
love to Miss Calcroft.
One afternoon, at the close of her day’s
work, she saw Gerald from where she stood
at the end of a row of trellises. She smiled
and he crossed over the wire fence into the
vineyard and spoke to her. He asked
whether he could walk to the boat with
her. She looked along the dusty white
road. No one was in sight. With a smile
she gave him permission.
They had not gone far before she felt
that, with his flow of words, he was charm-
ing her. If he did not give her breathing
time to think she did not know what
would happen. They were not a great way
from the boat when Marie remembered that
there would be trouble if her father saw
Gerald in her company. She dismissed him,
saying it would be better that she went
to the boat by herself.
“If you think so, I’ll go,” said Gerald,
“but I will see you again?”
“Perhaps,” answered Marie.
He was not long before he sought and
found Marie at her work in a shed made
of palm leaves. - Its exquisite coolness was
delicious to feel after the heat that shim-
mered in the pear orchard and above the
drying ground where trays of fruit were
spread out in the glorious sunshine.
The scene was the idyllic setting of a fruit
harvest in Australia. The lemon-colored
sunshine flooded the land, and the shadows
were the rich deep purples of artists’ dreams.
Perhaps it was the joyous spirit of Pan
that appealed to the pickers whose souls
were attuned to the vibrations of bounti-
ful nature. It was on such days that Cupid
shot in sport his arrows in the air, to fall
on whom they might, while Pan played
his pipes.
A half-poetical belief in these mytho-
logical conceits was a part of the psychology
of Gerald. He was well content at twenty-
two years of age to take the best of what
came his way. He cared little if men less
favored or less fortunate than he, men
browned with the sun and bowed with
labor, had to be content with a restricted
share of the pleasures of life. Being a
handsome boy, fair women smiled at him,
and that was not by way of making him a
saint. He had told Marie he was not a
saint, nor had any inclination to be an
anchorite.
They had many secret meetings and they
were intoxicated with their love. In such
a small town it was not possible to conceal
for any length of time any lovemaking
that included long evening walks along the
river’s banks. • If they could not see each
other they wrote passionate letters telling
how their love consumed them.
With every power given to woman to
enthrall man Marie sought to entangle
Gerald, to inflame desires for her intoxicat-
ing caresses. Her letters to him flattered
( Continued on page 55.)


Cutting Costs
\
r
v/
J=l
/>!
f I
~ ~ksm-
“f?
—r(^= J t
M'S
=v >:
ULhz
/A~,
• t
CV
rjj
'C.'
-
oir
u* eYS ° WU<^ 8 '
Sotoe
btt*
tb a
5o a
U A
b
Co
\et
fO*
D a * i
iet)
NV°
ate
Cat 9
oCi
**•>
A"
CA a
(teP
Co^
U A
/
Ttt»
NV
Cot 9
Co
v**?,
Co
tot
NV
b aS
Co
stttt
Oto ftV
M
C»t
et a
Aet)
e*»- „«y
C* u j Co'"“„
U^’
Sto©
Getv
Aott
5 to
Coo
lA®
(jep
U A
Cat 9
-/
Ueatt
Bt° 5
to
tvJ°t
at 9
V/b
Dett
y)
U A
tvtt
Ag e
U A
c c °:;\
Ru
Co
Co
b^tvey
cy c
Cat
»-' 9G u a.. c-*"
,toto . r.o
\ /
tot
R&\ e '®
aO
vAivVto
\CA V
VAoo 8
A et \\ e cttt ca
ott
tbottt 8
TV
Ct«*v
Btt u
vet 9
t et * cV svaft ot
IA»" U A "
co-
tty
btao
bes
<- a
MVatvo
tt°V
P\att
aO
tt* c
tb e _
CVee
WV
bsb
CoS
Kitn:
u
S 0O 9
Vet tty
at*
ftot
oS
tto
■\tvg
Ntto 9
C^ G
lirft?.
v » iok
w.
=3
CJ
a
AeO
Co
~-l
ct**
ot^Arf)
tet
GV°
v/A-^r.
Ct^ ( 7 e9 eat - A? 0
ot
lS- A\vjay ojO^ 5-
w>y"
■'V
Gt
tbeto
Sou
€■• „ P O^ C
ao
Ni
£ <?<£*«&<**■
S pi»ttio
l\saW ***’
ao
tA
sto
btt
Gee
bt
uS
*1
boto
Seat
1^:
’S V ?
7
■ c»
nri
'hJ*
<&-
*
>
is
A ut9t»»s;
«•* ** .-
yyjflgji
',//
Tr
t, a
a
Cpaton
7v\
7
v
Bintain'sßiggertJnclmtries
VY7ORLD-FAMOUS ENGINEERING FIRMS, themselves makers of
* * rnmnpfmnr arp pmnlnvinor I Pptrnl-rlriVPn Allto-tnirks IFI
competing trucks, are employing Lister Petrol-driven Auto-trucks in the
daily routine of their workshops.
Still more remarkable is the fact that these engineering firms, who are more than
ordinarily competent to judge the value of such haulage units, have sent in repeat
orders for more Lister Auto-trucks. One in every five of the orders in hand are
from previous users.
The fame of these Auto-trucks is not confined solely to Britain and to engineer-
ing businesses. Forty-five trades in 33 countries all over the world are employing
them, both for inside and outside haulage. The names listed here are but a few
af many famous British firms for whom Lister Auto-trucks are cutting the cost of
haulage—
The Lister Auto-truck carries a load of one ton at 7-8 m.p.h.; draws a
load of three tons; turns in less than its own length; and reverses merely
by swinging the engine around on its turntable. No expensive and
complicated gears, no batteries, no idle time. First cost, £145; running
costs about 1/3 per day. Let us demonstrate—or write for free literature.
isveti
SSiiISH Buiv*
AUTO-TRUCKS
Distributors
for Australia:
DANGAR,
GEDYE
AND CO., LTD.,
10-14 Young Street, Sydney.


w
Dodge- Brothers
ANNOUNCE
The complete line of Trucks, Buses and Motor Coaches
which Dodge Brothers have been manufacturing and selling
under the name of Graham Brothers now takes the name of
their makers—Dodge Brothers.
These Trucks, Buses and Motor Coaches have always been
powered by Dodge Brothers engines. For years they have
been built of Dodge Brothers parts in Dodge Brothers plants
according to Dodge Brothers standards.
These Trucks, Buses and Motor Coaches are sold, as they
always have been sold, by Dodge Brothel's Dealers everywhere.
For Power, Speed, Safety, Economy, Fine Appearance and
Dependability, Dodge Brothers Trucks, Buses and Motor
Coaches will continue to merit that high public regard which
impels keen businessmen to buy them at a rate of more than
a million dollars’ worth a week.
Dodge Brothers
Trucks
BUSES AND MOTOR COACHES
Canada Cycle 8C Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
Austral Motors Limited, Brisbane —Townsville
Waymouth Motor Co. Ltd., Adelaide
Winterbottorn Motor Co. Ltd., Perth
Harden & Johnston Ltd., Sydney
northern Automobile », Ltd., Auckland. N.Z.
Amuri ilotort. Ltd. .. Chnttchurch, 1t.2.
Ooiiens and Black. Ltd. .. Dunedin, N.Z
P. B. Vickery. Ltd. ~ Invercargill, B.S.
Newton King, Ltd. ~ New Plymouth, N£.
Magnus Botort. Ltd. .. Wellington. N2i.


By K.P.M. de Luxe Liners to
JAVA and SUMATRA
T.S.S. NIEUW HOLLAND T.S.S. NIEUW ZEELAND
11,000 Tons
First - class
Return Fares
to Java from
Sydney and
Brisbane:
£Bl
From Melbourne:
£B7
C
3 * rr**'
rtf&WSik'wm
First-class
Return Fares
to Penang and
Belaya n (Sum-
atra) from
Sydney:
£99
From Melbourne:
£lO5
Largest, fastest and most luxurious Mail Liners, via the Great
Barrier to Macassar (Celebes), Java, Singapore, Penang and
Belawan Deli (Sumatra) direct.
Head Office for Australasia:
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY
(K.P.M. Line),
255 George Street, Sydney.
The Ultimate Choice 11
THE
KROPP
It never requires grinding,
MADE THROUGHOUT IN SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Time is proving that
after many experi
ments the man who
will not be satisfied
with anything but the
best comes back to
the Kropp.
.ALL-BRITISH
•'t ßrir
1
From the usual Dealers. Black Ivory or Xylonite Handles.
Wholesale onIy:—OSBORNE, GARRETT & CO., LTD., London, England.
m e
soPZ
Ih*
Britain’s
Motor
Masterpiece
In Mayfair and the Shires, across the plains of
India and the desert tracks of Iraq, in the sun-
shine of Australia, or on the African veldt
everywhere where cars are used you will find
the Sunbeam.
Not only in mechanical efficiency but also in
coachwork of fine appearance and luxurious
comfort, Sunbeam leads the way.
Its high road speed, ease of control, security
of braking and stability under all conditions
ensure a performance of exceptionally high
standard.
The coachwoik combines unusual beauty of line
with roomy accommodation.
Sunbeam cars for the Australian market are
specially built with the necessary ground clear-
ance, springing and cooling to ensure perfect
performance on the roughest roads and tracks
and in the most tropical heat.
Complete catalogue will be sent on application
to our Australian agents, or direct to our Export
Department.
AUTHORISED DISTRIBUTORS.
THE ALL BRITISH MOTOR CO. PTY., LTD., 111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
MESSRS. WILLIAMS, HILL & CAMERON, LTD., 91-97 Flinders Street, Sydney.
MESSRS. ARTHUR BALES, LTD., 367-371 Murray Street, Perth.
RASCH MOTORS, LTD., 69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT:
12 Princes Street, Hanover Square, London, W.l, England.
Cables ;
“Subeamoco,” London.
Head Office and Works:
Wolverhampton, England.
Agents for Egypt: MIDDLE EAST MOTOR AGENCY, 3 Kon-Elo Dick, Alexandria.
C.T.P.55
Pen and Picture
Shadow Shows
In “Moran of
the Marines”
(Par amount)
Richard Di x,
the film star
with the face of
a genteel pugil-
ist, gets run in
for being mixed
up in a cafe brawl, and his father, a
millionaire railroad builder, refuses to bail
him out. He is drafted into the marines,
kisses his general’s daughter, gets three years,
and is allowed to expiate his crime by taking
the chance of leaving his bones in some
foreign land on one of Uncle Sam’s imperial
adventures. To China goes Uix, and,
strangely enough, along with him goes every
other character in the story. It is a fact
that America has done absolutely nothing in
China except stand at attention while
British tars and Tommies did the work
of protecting property, citizens and dol-
lars ;, but history is ever being made in
Hollywood. No doubt having heard that
British warships have smashed up a pirate
RUTH ELDER.
colony or two,
the picture-
makers show
Uncle's army
busily engaged
in the interior
sup pressing
bandits. The
heroine, who
is an air-
woman, is
captured b y
the bandits.
She is rescued
by Ric-har d
single - handed
and, his social
and financial
bona fulcs hav-
ing been guar-
anteed by his
father, the
General and
the arm y—
blesses the
union. Ruth
Elder, the girl
who piloted her own machine from Franco
to America, is the heroine, and the fact that
her first attempt at acting is quite as good as
the umpteenth of many world-famous per-
formers suggests that the art of screen pan-
tomime is somewhat over-rated.
The simple emotions which stir the human
heart are the same to-day as they ever were.
Only the method of their presentation
changes. In grandma’s day they used to
put domestic tracts such as “East, west,
Home’s best” upon the wall. To-day we
get such pictures as “Mother” (F. 8.0.).
Belle Bennett is the Madonna of the piece,
and a very charming one she is. Any family
would be pleased to have her. She cooks
well, cuts her dresses down for daughter,
has a ready indulgence for the caprices of
her son, and a ready needle for the buttons
on her husband’s trousers. But alas for the
ingratitude of human nature! Her son takes
to drink and fast flappers, and hubby to
faster widows. The home that is better than
the points of the compass is in danger of
disintegration—so much in danger that only
a railway accident of the largest dimensions
and involving much death and damage to
numerous innocent people can save it. The
accident duly happens and throws all the
principal characters into each other’s arms
again. While carriages are bursting into
flames and stretcher-bearers are carrying
away the injured, the son comes to the con-
clusion that mother does know best after
all; while hubby suddenly discovers charms
in his legal mate which have been obvious
to the audience from the start. A psycho-
analyst would say that the enormous vogue
of motlier-love upon the screen indicates an
uneasy consciousness that there is a lack of
the virtue in private life ; but that is by the
way. Those in need of its unsophisticated
preaching will find “Mother” to their liking.
“The Fleet’s In” (Paramount) is one of
those domestic comedies which the Americans
do superlatively well —far better than when
they attempt passion amongst the Pyramids
or seduction in the steppes. Clara Bow, as
that primitive organism a little working
flapper, picks up a sailor-boy at a dance,
lures him with the immemorial devices of
Eve to her room at the top of 10 flights of
stairs, and then attempts to brain him with
a parlor ornament when he kisses her.
Clara is a bit of genuine flesh. She is a
little less authentic later on when she dresses
up as a Magdalen, an'd, in order to save her
sailor from a stretch, tells a magistrate that
it was she that lured him into a brawl
instead of the other way about. Still, a
little theatricality is necessary to a real-
life story or it would never get out of the
chrysalis stage. James Hall, as the gob who
gets smitten with passion and china statu-
ettes, is an excellent type, and there is a
stirring naval background of love and lash.
Of its kind a perfect little yarn.
“The Czarina’s Secret” (Metro-Goldwyn-
Mayer) is in color —technicolor, to be pre-
cise—and a better subject for displaying the
hues of the rainbow on the screen could
hardly be imagined. It is placed in a period
when men vied with women in imitating the
bird of paradise. Catherine 11. uses an
officer of her guard to push the Czar off the
throne and put her on it. H’aving achieved
her political ambition, she tells the officer
to name his own reward. His reply is
hardly that of a gentleman. He asks her to
bless his union with another lady. The fact
that he has just had a convincing demon-
stration of what is liable to happen to a
czarina’s husband may have had something
to do with his decision. A broken queen
then turns to the drab business of ruling a
nation. An artistic story, and none the
worse for being brief in the telling.
One of the best talkies this Column has
seen to date is “Miss Information” (Warner
Bros.). Only a slight sketch, but admir-
ably done and pregnant with possibilities
for the future of the movies. Unlike other
allegedly speaking films it provides a
complete dialogue, and sententious sub-
titles are conspicuous by their absence. A
traveller (Edward Everett llorton) is sent
to a provincial town to buy cheaply an
invention which is in the possession of the
unsophisticated widow of the inventor. He
employs a charming stenographer (Lois
Wilson) and she turns out to be the
inventor’s daughter. He falls in love with
her, refuses to play his employer’s game
and is fired by long-distance telephone.
Here the talkie has it “all over” the
legitimate stage. Both ends of the ’phone
are shown and the audience gets the whole of
the conversation, instead of half of it and
a long explanation. Eye, car and mind soon
get accustomed to hopping to and fro across
the United States in pursuit of the talkers.
The two performers act very well, their
voices are from fair to good and the comedy
is a welcome relief to the unrestricted
slapstick to which its tonguelessness has
driven the silent drama.
The Palette
Aht in Australia’s first issue this year
in its series of prints of Australian paintings
is a masterly reproduction of the Hans Iley-
sen oil, “White Gums.” Roughly 15Jin. by
12in., it is the most ambitious effort in the
series to date. The painting is lleysen at
his freshest—a natural grouping of gums,
with two team horses at their nosebags
among them, and a sky as Australian as
the trees whose branches straggle over it.
“R.P.”: Canberra’s little Society of Artists
promises well; it has just completed its
second annual show. Local exhibitors in-
cluded Tom Garrett, Luigi Nobili (lately
from Italy), John Horgan and H. T. Shan-
non, and there' was no lack of red seals.
Bernard Hall sent from Melbourne his por-
trait of Robert Garran, who opened the show.
Harold Herbert and McNally were also
represented.
“Hamer” : Frank Lynch, finding that few
crumbs fall from the rich man’s table for
sculptors in Australia, is going to Paris.
Lynch’s “Satyr” made a hit, but his “Aus-
tralian Venus,” which maintains the same
high standard, remains unsold. Perhaps if
he decorated the lady with horn-rimmed
spectacles one of our great “Australian”
cinema showmen, in their newborn zeal for
Art, might buy it.
“F.S.”: The impression carried away from
“Ghosts of Mcnin Gate” is that great themes
do not necessarily make great pictures. Will
Longstaff’s painting shows the famous portal
—or, rather, the memorial which has been
erected in its place —dramatically relieved by
moonlight against a sky full of wild blue-
black cloud wrack. The fact that 90,000
British soldiers, 6000 of whom were Aus-
tralians, found unidentified graves in this
area is illustrated by the introduction in the
foreground and right of the picture of spec-
tres of soldiers in full war kit. It was a
curious fact that when John Monash un-
veiled the work at the Town Hall, Mel-
bourne, his address stirred the imagination
more than the picture did. It was a curt
soldierly address —Monash might have been
dictating a dispatch on the previous day’s
operationsi for G.H.Q. —but it filled the
mind with more ghosts than there are in
Longstaff’s picture.
If the O’Brien Publicity Co. in issuing
recently a portfolio of half a dozen examples
of its work intended no more than the adver-
tising of itself it achieved something even
more desirable. It advertised good adver-
tising. The six are varied in subject and
method: a restful arrangement of folded
hanging cloth, wine decanter and glass, with
the advertised cigarettes holding the eye
in the foreground; a solid view of the partly-
constructed Sydney Harbor bridge; a laugh-
ing mask head having his warty nose pow-
dered by a shingled brunette attired in an
armband and slippers—these, and the other
three, also miles above the average, are
mounted on sheets 15in. by llin. over
all. Apart from its interest to people who
have something tangible to sell, the port-
folio should be helpful to those who want
to sell talent—commercial artists who have
aspirations above the crudities of which
they are commonly guilty.
The Inky Way
“P. Impenitent”: If the A.W.U. does give
Sydney the World at long last, there will
be a brisk fight for some of the jobs on the
editorial side. I know two pressmen who
have been promised the sporting editorship.
One “appointment” dates from 3914.
“D.D.”; Novelist Roy Bridges has fled
from the noises of Melbourne to a quiet little
place in Tasmania which is supposed to be
a dead spot for radio, and where gramo-
phones and motor-horns are not troublesome.
Here, with a portable typewriter and sister
Hilda for amanuensis, he will get to work
on novels lie has contracted to do for over-
seas publishers.
Pontius Penwiper”: A queer Sydney
paper was the Servants’ Hall, which
chronicled social events in what used to be
cahed the life below stairs. It was started
by an advertising man of imagination, the
idea being that grocers, butchers, drapers and
the like would jump at the chance of adver-
tising in such a medium. But they failed to
jump, and the medium faded out after the
second issue.
oo‘;SS e y Beale”: E . G. Bonney (B.
„”/ 1 /29) is the author of a book of yarns
tt e (^P 1 1 ? s J L ? Ve Affair, and Other Stories.”
He published them at his own expense, and
fi Q Q din f to get the volume dis-
played, with sufficient prominence on book-
sellers shelves, engaged a salesman to travel
the country with it. The venture showed a
profit. M hen quite a lad Bonney won'a
5 S w P i nZe for J .-5 stor y in a Coonamble
(N.S.W.) competition. Later he edited the
Municipal and Shire Gazette (Svdnev)
under E. C. Bluett, and before going to
Melbourne was South Coast travelling repre-
sentative for the S. M. Herald. P


when you’re
running on
repaid
in
r/ Q
I
cn^
n
9
OUI
vj
5k
KB* .
.A* 1
/
♦
gss
o
S l *>
\
$
*®>S
60
*«R
8B
-6#
1
{&
JO
15
70
65
‘•jasfc
50
w-
-15
<3O
s ' : “.
irATUN]
\PSONS
ie World’s Best Tyre.
Obtainable
from Your Garage.
Wholesale
Distribution: —
QUEENSLAND: Rapson Distributors
(Q’land), Ltd., Brisbane.
N.S.W.: Rapson Distributors
(N.S.W.), Ltd., Sydney.
VICTORIA: Rapson Distributors
(Vic.) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne.
S.A.: Rapson Distributors (S.A.),
Ltd., Adelaide.
W.A.: Rapson Distributors (W.A.),
Ltd., Perth.
“T} APSONS are deserving of the highest merit.”
r\ In such words Mr. Arthur Barnes expressed his
*■* * entire satisfaction with his tyres after his record-
breaking run from Adelaide to Sydney last month.
Sturdy, full size, reinforced tyres of exceptional
qualities, perfectly balanced and built for service,
Rapsons are cheaper than other leading makes, for a
tyre is cheap or dear according to the mileage it yields,
and first cost in both cases is the same.
The accumulated knowledge of years has enabled the
Australian builders of Rapsons to produce a tyre
which approaches as nearly as possible the ideal
visualised by every motorist. The heavy traction
tread is specially designed for Australian conditions.
It is the toughest, hardest wearing tread ever placed
on any tyre. But Rapson is not just a tyre fit to hold
its own on the Australian market —it is a tyre to take
its place as leader anywhere in the world.
Fit Rapsons, then, and make sure of the better road
grip and long even wear, mile after mile, furlong after
furlong, chain after chain, which their advanced
design ensures.
Made by
THE RAPSON TYRE AND RUBBER CO. (AUST.) LTD.
Rapsonia Launceston, Tas.
Australia s Own —Ready for Active Service—Anywhere —Any Time.


ACCURATE SHOOTING AT 500 YARDS.
•3?
(£ m
NEW IMPROVED CADET RIFLE.
Hundreds of satisfied Shooters have used
297/230 CALIBRE CADET RIFLES.
This is an ideal sporting rifle. Fires a central fire cartridge larger than a .22
calibre, and is accurate up to 500 yards. 24in. barrel. Under-lever Martini
action, quick and certain in extraction of empty shells. Detachable lock. Elevating
ladder rear sight and protected bead front sight. Fitted complete .with cleaning
rod and brush 75/-
CARTRIDGES.—Long (actual size illustrated) 7/6 per 100
Short 5/6 „ „
Va
LTD
PTY
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
ŵ
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
A Newmarket Handicap victory easier
than that of the St. Anton gelding St.
Ardent has seldom been seen. Favored with
the outside position from which so many
Newmarkets have been won, the flying South
Aus.-bred three-year-old hit the front imme-
diately, and was never deprived of the lead.
When he passed the judge’s box almost two
lengths clear of gallant little Figure, the
clock showed lmin. lOJsec. —a record for the
race and for the course. St. Ardent had
run wide in the Oakleigh Plate, and finished
third, but that performance lie had followed
iqi with a runaway win in the Hawksburn
Handicap. Trainer Harry Gabell and many
Caulfield track-watchers declared him a cer-
tainty for the Newmarket, and they found
their optimism profitable.
There were 22 runners, and Mollison,
despite the fact that he had to start from
the “wrong” side of the track, like all the
topweights, held his position as favorite,
shortening to 9 to 4. Figure was at 9 to
2. St. Ardent at 5 to 1 and Gothic at six;es.
Mollison got away well enough, and half
a mile from home was running second -to
St. Ardent, Aga Khan, Greenline, Fission
and Figure being next, and Gothic a good
way back. A little later Mollison struck
some trouble and lost ground, but it would
have made no difference, as St. Ardent had
the race won a furlong from home.
Cook drew the whip on Figure, and the
mare gamely responded, but she had no
chance with the leader. Yiolian (50 to 1)
was half a length behind Figure, and Molli-
son was a close fourth. Greensborough was
fifth, Crowdel sixth, Gothic (who pulled
up none too well) seventh, and Karuma
eighth. St. Ardent is owned by machinery-
manufacturer Charles Ruwolt, and was
ridden by the much-travelled Perth jockey
Perciva], who had only to get his mount
away well and keep him going, a task which
he faithfully performed.
Unwarranted reports about Strephon’s con-
dition led to the bookmakers taking 9 to 4
about his chance in the St. Leger. The only
other to meet with any backing was Bal-
merino, at 3 to 1; fancy prices were offered
against the other four. The race turned out
just an exercise gallop for the favorite. Pike
took him to the front at the half-mile, and
tnough Balmerino made an effort under the
whip, Strephon went right away in the
straight, winning, hard held, by three lengths
from Prince Don (25 to 1), who surprised
by beating the very tired Balmerino by four
lengths for second place. The time —2min.
69^see. —was a race record.
Black Duchess opened at even money for
the Essendon Stakes, but Holt and his fol-
lowers put in on Maple so solidly that the
Caulfield Cup winner started first choice at
11 to 8, Black Duchess being at 7 to 4.
Magpie’s daughter, who seems to go particu-
larly well for young O’Brien, made all the
running, and though Maple headed her at
the distance, Black Duchess came again and
beat the West Australian mare by a length
and a quarter, Sailing Home (5 to 1) being
another two and a half lengths away.
Leadight ran a fair race, aud was close up.
The time, 2min. 4ssec., was very good.
The race for the Sires’ Produce Stakes
furnished the surprise of the afternoon. Park-
wood, previously unbeaten and a red-hot favo-
rite at 9 to 4 on, was completely outstayed
by Nedda (20 to 1), a Paper Money filly
from Maoriland, who had twice failed at
Caulfield, though she has a good record on
the other side of the Tasman. Daniels was
blamed for Parkwood’s defeat, being con-
sidered to have been outridden by Munro;
but the Melbourne lad could not come away
without the ’orse. Metaphor (12 to 1) was
third, the time being lmin. 26see. Possibly
Parkwood was short of work; certainly he
should be given another chance by punters.
The field for the Brunswick Stakes con-
sisted mostly of Australian Cup candidates,
but none of them got a place. Impartial
was a 5-to-2 favorite, but Dempsey had him
in a hopeless position before they had gone
very far. Kidaides (7 to 1), who, with
Gleamlight (10 to 1), did most of the pacing,
led into the straight; there Red Sea (7 to
1), on whom Scanlon got a nice run on the
rails, took charge, and though Horoscope (8
to 1) and Harbinger (10 to 1) both threat-
ened danger the Red Dennis gelding won a
good race by a length from Horoscope, Ilar-
i)inger being another length and a half away.
It was a day disastrous to favorites—five
went down.
***![<
Penalised a mere 71b. for his good win
in the Dundas Handicap at Roseliill on
Saturday week,
Quince was saddled
up for the Moore-
field Handicap at
the course of that
•name last Wednes-
day. He was au
unknown quantity
at ton furlongs,
but the same was
true of the favo-
rite, Garrula, who
firmed from threes
to twos. Quince,
opened at fives,
lengthened to
eights, and came
back to sixes. Rid-
den a waiting race
by little Parr, who
has patience un-
usual in an appren-
tice, he won deci-
sively from Love-
box (9 to 2) and
Luddenham (16 to
1), whom the judge
could not separate.
Quince is a half-
brother to Loquat,
who won at a mile
and three furlongs,
but punters have short memories.
Black Douglas, a'2-to-l favorite for the
Flying Handicap, finished a close fourth
after being badly served at the start; Bacagi
(10 to 1) got the best of an exciting scramble
up the straight. And Chuquisaca, whoso
party had shown very bad judgment in back-
ing him to beat Gesto at Boseliill, ran away
with the Hurstville Mile, for which he was
joint favorite with Marshon, the second
horse, at threes.
* * * *
Gesto was the good thing of the day at
the Hawkesbury on Saturday. There was
a notion early in the week that Price would
withdraw the big Maoriland chestnut from
the Clarendon Handicap, the field being small
and (apart from Gesto) poor; but Gesto
was taken up on Saturday, and won in a
canter. The price was 7 to 4 on, and little
of that. Black Douglas (evens) could only
run third in the Flying Handicap, which went
to Casque d’Or (6 to 1), another of Price’s;
either the favorite is not so good as was
thought or he has had enough racing for the
time being. Spaghetti (6 to 1) made a one-
horse race of the Autumn Handicap, in which
he was chased home by Waipori (14 to 1)
and Luddenham (4 to 1) ; Drawbridge, the
5-to-2 favorite, was in one of his bad moods,
and came in last. Like Price, Tindall won
a double —with Trishna (5 to 2) in the
second division of the Park Stakes and Bav-
acre (4 to 1) in the Highweight Handicap.
Trishna is a three-year-old brother to the
Australian Cup favorite, Mondiaga.
* * * *
Those who backed Lord Kennaquhair for
the Newcastle Cup (and so many did that the
closing price was 5 to 4) were unlucky not
to collect. Kennaquhair’s son got the worst
of a bad start, being left several lengths, and
when he had collared the field he could not
get out of a pocket until it was too late.
Even then he finished within half a length
of the winner, Honan (8 to 1), Patadawn
(5 to 1) splitting them; and the 11 furlongs
were run in 2min. PJijsec. on a rather dead
track. Lord Kennaquhair looks more and
more like a Sydney Cup horse.
* * * *
, For Roseliill on Saturday
Highweight Handicap : Lady Constance :
next, Koorathella.
Club Handicap: Lord Kennaquhair; next,
Baverwrack or Amusement.
Trial Stakes: Lord Romeo; next, Sir
Tarsia.
ltydalmere Mile: Gesto or Baverwrack;
next, Wedding Eve.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
The 15-round go between Fidel I.a Barba
(Bst. 9ilb.) and Billy Grime (Sst. llfb.)
at Melbourne Stadium on Saturday night,
which had looked like being the titbit of
the year, proved a horrible disappointment.
Never at any stage was it as entertaining
as any of the preliminaries. Billy was in
poor shape. From the outset, he crouched
nearly to the floor, and claimed almost in-
cessantly. La Barba’s right hand is not
much good, but he kept his left working
■ overtime, and the blame for the fiasco rests
with the Australian. On rare occasions
Grime brought over a right that connected,
but the punches lacked snap. The big crowd
broke into a storm of hooting during the
ninth round, and from then until the finish
the count-out was applied from all parts of
A SKIN NEK.
LITTLE IZZY: “Fader, vot vos you layin’ at the Surf Races?”
IKEY JEWFISH: “Vun ’undred ter three bar sharks.”
the house. A right and left to the jaw by
Fidel in the 13th round were the best
punches of the “fight.” The decision for
La Barba on points was the only one possible.
* * $
Punchers appear to be prevalent at pre-
sent, and another turned up at Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night, when Wally
Hancock (lOst. and Wally McKen-
zie (lOst. 101 b.), a hard-hitting South
Coast youth, were the principals. Mac.
had won his last 11 fights, mostly by the
short-cut route, but ho crashed badly on.
this occasion, being sent to sleep with a
perfectly-timed left-hand punch to the chin
in the third round, after having been on
the canvas for six seconds. Despite his big
pull in the weights, the loser proved no
match for Hancock, who is one of the finest
boxer-fighters seen at the Stadium for a long
time.
* * * *
Two more aspirants for Gene Tunney’s
lately-vacated throne have had their hopes
shattered. “Young” Stribling,. considered
most likely to occupy the position, lost to
Jack Sharkey on points in a ten-round
contest at Miami Beach, while Maorilander
Tom Heeney went down to Jim Maloney at
Boston in the same fashion. Heeney, who
weighed 14st. 1111 b. to his opponent’s list.
21b., seems to have taken a terrific belting.
The Ins and Outs
Tlie second meeting of the Englishmen and
Victoria in Melbourne was responsible for a
ballyhoo closely resembling that aroused by
Duckworth’s appeals some weeks ago. Chap-
man put Larwood on to bowl against Iron-
monger, last man in, when Victoria's score was '
572. At this there was a lot of silly bar-
racking aud the Englishmen made matters
worse by refusing to go on till the row,
stopped. Ryder solved the situation by
closing the Victorian innings.
The Victorian score is the largest yet put
up against the tourists, and was headed by
Woodfull with 275 n.o. This is the third
time he has opened and been not out against
the Englishmen this season, and his score is
the highest by an Australian against an
English team in Australia. Ryder played
a characteristic shot for 60, while left-
hander Darling's 87 was a sterling innings.
Makin (44) and a’Bockett (36) were also
running well up. Larwood’s 3 wickets cost
only 61, but hi' was rested, “Tick” Freeman
bearing the burden of the bowling—lie took
4 for 245. At stumps on Saturday England
had lost Jardine ami Coy land for S 3, and on
Monday Hammond (96) and Tyldesley (52)
raised the score to 172 without further loss.
* * * *
The Englishmen filled in tin' time between
the N.S.W. match and that against Victoria
by a couple of games m the N.S.W. country
districts. Western Districts were beaten at.
Bathurst by an innings and 111 runs, “Tich”
Freeman and Larwbod playing havoc with
the countrymen. At Goulburn tin; tourists
struck stronger opposition in Southern Dis-
tricts, the match being drawn. Lampe, a left-
hand medium-paced bowler who was con-
spicuous in N.S.W. country week a couple
of seasons ago. bowled excellently in Eng-
land's first innings, taking 5 for 46, a feat
which earned him inclusion in the State side
against South Australia.
* * * *
The final Sheffield Shield match of the
season, between South Australia and N.S.W.,
opened at Sydney Cricket Ground last week-
end. The wicket was easy after rain, but
the opening batsmen collapsed, Jackson, Fair-
fax, Bradman (35), Andrews and McCabe
making only 65 between them. A. Marks,
the 19-year-old left-hander from Randwick,
then came in, and soon changed matters.
With the help of Davidson (16), Jordan
(65) and Hooker (62) he raised the score
to over 300 when he was run out at 92, the
innings totalling 326. The lad played Grim-
mett, Wall and Scott with the utmost con
fidencc, and his pulling on the slow wicket
was an object-lesson to many latter-day
players. Wall did little good, Grimmett’s 4
for 112 leading the S.A. bowling figures,
while Walker, the new ’keeper, collected
4 wickets. Batting in showery weather
on Saturday, the visitors shaped poorly
against bowlers handling a greasy ball on a
batsman’s pitch. G. W. Harris, with an in-
jured rib, fought stolidly, if slowly, for 197.
Hack (29) and Walker (26) being the only
other double figures in the score of 280. Tom
Andrews took 4 for 38. N.S.W. put on 71
without loss in the second innings, Jackson
being 24 and Fairfax 41.
* * * *
“Splice”: No Australian player of thD
season has given the carpers and other
experts a more vigorous set-back than Jack
Ryder. In the Tests so far he has made
405 for eight innings, and averaged 50.62.
his big scores invariably coming when they
were badly needed. As a captain he has
done wonders with the constantly changing
teams he has had to handle. In all Tests
he has made 973 runs, and the attainment
of the coveted 1000 in the final match of the
tour will be welcomed by all admirers of
an attacking batsman.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: A quaint exhibition of the
cricket writer’s mentality was made bv an
English correspondent in the Athletic
News. After some adverse comments on the
Australian crowd’s deplorable habit of criti-
cising players he adds that personally “Jar-
dine’s dreary batting and exaggerating sty-
lishness bore me stiff.” What is that but
barracking in print?
* * * *
“Jacobus”: Wyalong (N.S.W.) goldfields
once induced an Australian Test team to
meet the locals. To minimise the risk of
sudden death from Tibby Cotter’s bowling,
two mats were stretched over the concrete
pitch. Trumper jumped out to swat a high-
trajectory googly, and, his boot sprigs be-
coming entangled in the matting, was easily
stumped. The crowd gathered to see the
incomparable yelled “Not out,” and the
umpire hesitated. The bowler, who desired
to have it on record that he had once cap-
tured Trumper’s wicket for a blob, was in-
sistent. A young farmer, Ern Buttenshaw,
captained the goldfields team and topscored.
He is now Deputy-Premier (N.S.W.), Min-
ister for Works and Railways and leader
of the Country party.
(Continued on page /ft.)
BOWLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I sing the smoothly-rolling bowl, the gently
caracoling bowl.
The accurately goaling bowl, designed the
jack to kiss;
Of all the games whereat men play, and
wherefrom women keep away,
There’s none deserves a roundelay so
thoroughly as this.
A glorious thing it is, I ween, to stand upon
the velvet green
And make your missile intervene and
elbow out. your foe’s.
Here’s to the bowl whose course affords such
rapture on the shirt-front swards,
The bowl that glides—and, afterwards,
here’s to the bowl that flows!
I sing the slowly curving bowl, the delicately
swerving bowl,
The victory-deserving bowl or that which
turns the tide;
Meandering along it goes, what time the
tense absorption grows,
A tribute to the hand that throws and
eke the brains that guide.
Here’s to the rich and rounded woods,
benignant Heaven’s choicest goods
Vouchsafed to any brotherhoods that meet
and mix in sport.
The bowl projected from the mat that knocks
the cognoscenti flat,
The wonder bowl —and, after that, well,
there’s the other sort.
I sing the slow rotating bowl, the enemy-
frustrating bowl,
The ecstasy-creating bowl the final trick
that does,
The globe that nips along the track, pro-
pelled with skill demoniac,
To take the other side aback and set your
own a-buzz.
Here's to the game bold Drake and co. bent
down to play on Plymouth Hoe
Before they laid the Spaniards low, as
ev’rybody knows;
Here's to the deftly skimming bowl, the
opposition-trimming bowl,
And, after that, the brimming bowl —the
good old bowl that flows!
N.s.w.
PIPARDS.


ẁ
H
3
WHEREVER the game is played you hear the name of Mick
W Simmons coupled with it. As Australia’s Leading Sports
Specialists, supplying the major needs of Golfers, this is but natural. A
new Club a better Club the golfer always finds it at Mick
Simmons.
The Ultra in Golf Equipment
“WILL CORRY” CLUBS
The true sportsman loves his implements. Your first game with “Corry” Clubs will give
you that intimate thrill that leads to confidence and better Golf. They are beautiful clubs,
carefully built from selected materials by craftsmen skilled in the art of club-making, and
scientifically matched in weight, length, loft, lie and balance. In truth, the last word in
Golf Clubs. Let Will Corry personally match your old set with the new Graded Clubs
and you begin a new era in Golf.
MATCHED WOODS 25/-
GENUINE RUSTLESS GRADED IRONS, 25/-
SPECIAL GRADED IRO N S ... *2O/-
AUTOGRAPH CLUBS
< Autographed by the World’s Leading Professionals.
woods 25/- irons 20/-
AUCHTERLONIE CLUBS
A remarkably good club at a popular price.
woods 17/6 irons 17/6
CANN & TAYLOR’S CLUBS
A low-priced Club that is the choice of many players.
WOODS
17/6 irons
17/6
GLENEAGLE CLUBS
The perfect Club for the Beginner. Made
from dependable materials, they are splendid
value. To be had in Brassies, Drivers, Mid
Irons, Mashies, Mashie Niblicks and Putters,
each 10/6
GOLF BAGS
Brown Canvas, leather fittings, superior
quality 12/6, 15/6, 18/6
Willow Hide, white green-hide lacing. A
very popular bag 32/6
BEGINNERS’ SETS
Comprising Driver, Mashie, Mid Iron, Putter,
two Golf Balls, Tan Canvas Bag with leather
fittings, together with copy of latest Golf
Rules. Specially priced at, 47/6, 50/-
GOLF SUNDRIES
Ladies’ and Men’s Special Tan Brogue Golf
Shoes, with heavy crepe rubber soles,
Pair 27 / 6
Famous “Sorbo” Golf Ball Cleaners,
each 2/-
ẃ
GOLF REPAIRS
By most exert craftsmen, employing only
highest quality materials. Lowest charges.
GOLF TUITION
By Mr. Will Corry and Assistants on the
Roof Sports Ground. Expert tutorship,
moderate fees.
Avail yourself of Will Corry’s services in the selection of Clubs, in the correction of annoying faults,
on any matter relative to Country Golf Course construction, etc. His expert knowledge is always
yours to command.
O
1C
lmmons
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket, Sydney,
« Australia’s Largest Sports Outfitters ”


Icelestins
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole-Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
“WALLARINGA” MANSIONS
A,
r^=sr_
NEUTRAL BAY, SYDNEY.
UNDER ENTIRELY NEW MANAGEMENT.
Occupying as it does, one of the picked
positions and absolutely the healthiest
on the shores of Sydney Harbor, quiet
-and secluded, and within a short
distance of the City.
The Mansions are exceptionally well
built, having fine airy rooms over-
looking Sydney’s beautiful harbor;
also Lounges, Smoking Rooms, Tennis,
Croquet, Swimming Baths, Ball Room,
Guests’ Laundry, Electric Light.
The “Wallaringa” Mansions stand in
a fine position in Neutral Bay, and
the grounds and gardens are well kept.
During the day the views from “Wal-
laringa” are glorious, and at night
the myriad lights, across the harbor
and on the numerous Ferry Boats,
make a fairy-like scene that world-
wide travellers say is unequalled any-
where.
To maintain the reputation of these
well-known Mansions, guests are well
attended to and have every conveni-
ence and comfort. Correspondence
and Telegrams punctually attended to.
Terms from £3/3/- per week.
• Apply, The Manager.
’Phones: X 2239, X 2267.
Telegrams: “Wallaringa, Sydney.”
The Ins and Outs
“Tenth Slip”: The Australian team selec-
ted for the final Test in Melbourne is
probably the strongest yet turned out, in
a bow ling sense at any rate. Wall, the young
South Australian fast bowler, lias been
very successful against opening batsmen of
late, and deserves a trial. Fairfax, of
X.S.W., a first-class all-rounder, is another
welcome selection. Hornibrook, the Queens-
land left-hander, who eight years ago was
one of the best half-dozen bowlers in Aus-
tralia, though that did not gain him selec-
tion in the 1921 team or in that of 192 G,
has at last been given a chance in one of
the poorest seasons he has yet had in big
cricket. Still, he is only 30, and success
in this match may bring back the heart
for the game that he seems to have lost.
Even on his present form, he would
probably prove a genuine success on English
pitches.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: C. E. Ivellewny is the
latest cricketer to score a regular job—
“feature-writing” for a press which only
finds the specialist useful as long as his name
is remembered can’t be called that —by
reason of his cricketing ability. H. O. Sykes,
out here at the present for a firm of English
sporting-goods manufacturers, has appointed
Charles the firm’s representative in Queens-
land, N.S.W. and Vic. The same firm
has cornered Bradman’s signature for its
bats, which used to carry the autograph of
the late Boy Kilner, the Yorkshire cricketer,
here with Milligan in 15)24-25.
* Jfc * :{:
The Sheffield Shield match between Queens-
and and South Australia ended in an ex-
citing win for the home side by one wicket.
The scores were level when the ex-Sydney
player Levy, who batted finely for 85 n.o.
in Queensland’s second attempt, drove a ball
straight into the usually safe hands of Grira-
mett, who dropped it, the resulting run gain-
ing Queensland the verdict. Wall (7 for
104) and Hornibrook (7 for 108) bowled
their way into the final Test in Melbourne,
while Grimmett, with 7 for 96, had the bc'st
bag in a bowler’s match.
* >|s * #
“Hamer”: A gang of kid cricketers I know
toss for the right to be the Australian Eleven
(the losers of the toss have to be the Eng-
lishmen). I saw a Jackson who wore almost
seatless pants go for a duck the other day,
bowled by a Larwood who was unmistak-
ably of steaka-da-oyst pedigree. The depar-
ture of Woodfull, after making a fluky single,
started the trouble. One of the most diminu-
tive youngsters grabbed the club’s only bat
from the disconsolate Woodfull and bolted.
There was a collective pursuit, and the
luarry turned to bay. “If I can’t be Don
Bradman I’m going to take me bat ’ome,”
ivas his alternative. Once more the capi-
talist won, and Bradman went in to
make two runs before Levantine Larwood
knocked his kerosene-tin down.
# sjc
“Mid Leg”: Up to the beginning of the
Sheffield Shield match in Sydney and the
Vietoria-England encounter in Melbourne the
first-class averages of the 14 players who
have received Test selection this season show
Don Bradman at the head of the batting list.
For 20 innings (5 n. 0.) he averaged 88. with
an aggregate of 1320 —214 behind Faulkner’s
long-standing Australian record. The bowl-
ing is topped by Ron Oxenliam, who has
taken 25 wickets for an average of 23.08.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The elevation of Kynaston
Studd, of the prominent English cricketing
family, to the Lord Mayoralty of London
has led to a Victorian journal putting for-
ward the claim that the Cabbage Garden has
produced the only Test-match cricketer to
attain the dignity of the Bench —W. 11. Moule
>f the 1880 XI. The Vies, have overlooked
:he case of A. G. Steel, one of the finest
amateur all-rounders the game has seen.
Steel ended his days as Recorder of Liver-
pool, a high judicial' office. ,
* * * *
“Spin”: As most expected, the test of
lountry bowlers promoted by a Sydney news-
paper proved a dud. It could hardly have
been otherwise, for a one-day exhibition of
the candidates’ ability against a series of
metropolitan batsmen was no criterion of
their real prowess. The only test worth
while would be a series of matches. Coun-
try Week has already supplied this, and,
apparently, the cognoscenti could then find
no one worthy. The truth is that real
howling and batting ability will assert
itself. Turner, McKibbin and Howell
had already proved themselves master
bowlers in the country before they came to
the metropolis. The legend that Howell
was selected against Stoddart’s team as a
batsman is largely apocryphal. He was a
noted all-rounder, and he would inevitably
lave got his turn with the ball without asking
for it, as he is supposed to have done, on
the occasion of his sensational debut as a
first-class bowler. The two outstanding com-
petitors in the trial were W. H. Howell, a
son of the famous “Bill,” who showed evi-
denee of his dad’s ability to spin a ball, and
It. Plumb, of Bowral, a left-hander with a
very correct and effortless action. They are
to be given chances to make good in the
metropolis.
* * * *
“Tuppence”: I’ve discovered where they
breed the Test-match temperament. Lately I
attended a match at my old school, the first
occasion for 30 years. In my time an inter-
school clash used to be a joyous thing, with
plenty of “Oh, you mug!” and “R-r-r-r-un
it out!” This last show was as frivolous as
a coroner’s jury. The only expressions of
emotion from the boy spectators would be a
sibilant intake of the breath or a very sub-
dued and sedate “Well played.” I pro-
ceeded to show the young idea how we used
to do it in my days. I bellowed a bit,
roared some more, and, when it was de-
served, cheered for all I was worth. One of
the masters strolled across to me. I thought
he was going to join the applause, and I
advanced it another notch or two. “I wish
you wouldn’t make so much noise,” he said.
“Ic disconcerts the boys!”
Racquet and Bawl
The N.S.W. tennis championships in Syd-
ney last week saw the home players practi-
cally sweep the deck in the big games, the
only outlander to figure in a win being the
Queenslander Moon, who partnered Daphne
Akhurst in taking the mixed doubles. Jack
Crawford, who was at his top through-
out the tourney, won the final of the
singles from Q. Sproulc, from the South
Coast, another youngster whose form was a
feature of the meeting. With Hopman,
Crawford beat Moon and Cleincnger in the
QUITE AT HOME.
“How’s the new member shaping?”
“Oh, fluently.”
doubles after a four-set battle. Miss Akhurst
won the women’s singles from the South
Australian, Miss le Mesurier, and the
women’s doubles with Miss Cox.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Sydney’s interest in
tennis has fallen as flat as a pug beneath a
steam-roller, and the Association officials one
and all are steeped in a gloom which even
the imminence of the income-tax assessments
would not justify. The English visit was a.
dud in Sydney, and the recent inter-State
matches and State championships have been
even more disastrous, the few who did attend
spending most of their time at anything else
but watching the play. The trouble is that
the authorities have been too greedy for
money. In addition to extortionate prices,
they have rushed one big tournament on the
heels of another, and the fed-up public has
naturally stayed away.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Whether it is the influence
of the timber strike or of the coal situation is
hard say, but there is something brewing
in the N.S.W. tennis umpires’ union, or what-
ever it is. It is hard to deduce anything
else from the reported fact that a number
of them failed to ring the bundy at the
opening of the N.S.W. championships. One
'day not a single ump. turned up, with the
result that players had to umpire their own
matches. As the dailies say, “The men are
non-communicative, but the outlook is dis-
tinctly ominous.”
* * * *
“Harold the Red”: Allegations that lots
of tennis addicts of both sexes are not ladies
is being made by sports-goods traders, who
are trying to effect the abolition of the
present system of guaranteeing racquets.
Practically every firm guarantees for a period
every racquet sold except the cheapest makes.
A racquet can be destroyed without showing
any signs of intentional damage, and the
rush of demands for replacements about the
time when a guarantee has a month to run is
becoming significant. If motor traders
guaranteed new cars if those sold were not
in perfect order after two years they would
strike similar trouble in the 23rd month. The
racquet guarantee is an obviousi absurdity.
The trouble is that this custom is so well
established that the firm abandoning it will
be merely handing its trade to those which
don’t.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Sniff”: That highly-exclusive function
the tournament for the A.I.F. Cup—the
entry of Diggers who are professional golfers
is not permitted—was played on the Royal
Australian Club’s course at Kensington
(N.S.W.) last week, and ended in an odor
of suspicion. One player handed in a card
so much better than that of anyone else that
the authorities considered the matter and
awarded the Cup to a man with a much
higher total. This sort of thing, while quite
an ordinary occurrence in private golf, is
not unknown in other competitions than that
just completed. King David, who knew no-
thing of golf, said that all men were liars.
What he would have said about golfers stag-
gers the imagination.
* * * *
“Hotham” : For the first time since it was
inaugurated, the Kirk-Windeyer Cup will he
played for this year in Victoria, the venue
being the Commonwealth Club’s course. When
the Sydney-conceived Australasian tourney
first opened, the Victorian kings of golf
naturally gave it the bilious eye. They re-
fused it official recognition, but the situation
was saved by the sporting attitude of indi-
vidual players who took part in the first
match in Sydney, which was won by Maori-
land. A N.S.W. team went to M.L. last
year, and regained the trophy. As the rules
state that it must be played for in the coun-
try of the holder, Australia is the convincing
grotind for this year. Victoria has suffered
a change of heart, and will now smile upon
the once-despised function, which will pre-
cede the State championships.
* * * *
“Query”: Talking of golf clubs which lead
a double life (B. 27/2/’29), there is the
Brighton (Vic.) club, the members of which
play over the public links in Elsternwick
Park. The links belong to the Brighton Coun-
cil and are open to all who care to pay the
Council’s fee of Is. for 9 holes. On pay-
ment of a nominal subscription of I Os. 6d. a
year, players may become members of the
club, which is registered with the Victorian
Golf Association. Club members are not
entitled to take precedence over non-members,
nor do they receive any reduction of fees.
By joining the club, however, a player’s
status as a “golfer” is defined, and he is
eligible to take part in inter-club or other
open matches.
* * * *
Dr. B. M. Riley, who won the N.S.W.
A.I.F. Cup in Sydney last week, hails from
the Pymble club, which he joined as an
absolute mug (in a golfing sense) a little
over a year ago. Under the eye of Claude
Robinson, the Pyinblo professional, lie took
to the game like a terrier to a rat, and is now
doing well in the club’s handicap classes,
having pulled his minus allowance down to
11 already, llis score in the Cup was 84
off the stick, which, less hisi handicap,
returned a net 73.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: The annual report of the
Royal Sydney G.C. gives a clear idea of
the difficulties facing any Sydney resident
desiring to join an established golf club.
There are 2504 members of all sorts on the
books of the Rose Bay organisation, and the
queue waiting with their tongues hanging
out for election number no fewer than 1017.
The majority of these are associate members,
so the outlook for the family man who objects
to cold saveloys and similar delights from the
delicatessen shop for his Sunday dinner grows
more and more depressing.
* * * *
“Iconoclast”: Few, I think, realise the
tragedies for which the golf obsession is re-
sponsible. I do not particularly refer in
this connection to those with a domestic set •
ting. A recent interview with a retired
British officer which has appeared in an
English journal explains to me the under-
lying cause of the recent bouleversement in
Afghanistan—one that may have far-reaching
consequences. It would appear that this
officer got in touch with the late Amir Habi-
bullah, a well-balanced man—till then—and
an outstanding friend and ally of Britain.
In an ill-advised moment he explained the
mysteries of golf to the Amir. The unhappy
man was infected and laid out a golf course,
and in addition to playing on it all day long
insisted that his relatives and entourage
should do likewise. The inevitable —as I see
it —followed. The relatives murdered H'abi-
bullab, and he was succeeded by one of them
who has set the present pot boiling.
# * * *
“Ego”: Talking of the right-handed ten-
dency of a number of beginners at the
Royal and ancient game, I wonder if “The
Mcllaggis” has seen anything of that pheno-
menon the player who begins with the
right hand nearer the top of the shaft than
the left, and becomes quite proficient that
w’ay. The most illustrious example, I be-
lieve, is George Duncan, who was a good
player with the awkward-looking grip in
liis early days before he conquered the
orthodox right-hand-down and overlapping
grip.
“Harold Hardupp”: At a recent private
meeting of creditors in Sydney, the bank-
rupt averred that the cause of his embarrass-
ments was golf. Financial trouble occurred
because he allowed the game to become an
obsession, and devoted to it time he should
have given to his business. Upon his promise
to swear off the creditors agreed to let
him have another go. He took the offer
and endorsed it by making his biggest cre-
ditor a present of his golf kit.
“Elijah Pogram. In a recently-published
volume named “Scotland’s Gift,” the claim
made by a writer in a recent Bulletin that
the Savannah Golf Club was the oldest
in America is summarily dismissed. The
author, C. B. Macdonald, asserts that
the first American golf club ivas founded
in Chicago, of all places, in 1890. This
and four other clubs combined in 1894
to form the United States Golf Association.
Macdonald himself won the first American
amateur golf championship in the follow-
ing year. The seed he planted has produced
a marvellous growth. There are probably
more irresponsibles permitted to wander at
large in the United States under the plea
that they are golfers than are harbored in
all the asylums of that great country.
(Continued on next page.)


o
o
BE*
iushvm
r
»
Ensure efficient running by fitting' B.E.S.
SPARK PLUGS. A type for every car, truck,
tractor, cycle, aeroplane and marine engine.
Fully guaranteed. All garages. Price 4/6.
Manufactured by
Australian Spark Plugs Pty., Ltd.
562 Spencer Street, Melbourne, C.l.
’Phones: F 4947, F 5961.
Chains--Chains--Chains- Chains
ẅ
w
ŵ
ẁ
Car and Cycle
“Garry” : The slow-driving competition on
Sydney’s Maroubra race-track the other day
demonstrated, if it did nothing else, the
advantage of the eight-cylinder motor over
those with fewer cylinders when driving in
traffic. The ability to crawl without stalling
is appreciated by every city driver. Three
Hupmobile eights, one driven by a lady,
headed the results in the “six-cylinder or
over” class, the winner doing 220 yards at
an average pace of 1.06 m.p.h., while the
fastest of the three averaged 1.43 m.p.h.
The most successful six-cyl. car wms a Hud-
son, which averaged 1.5 m.p.h. In the four-
cyl. class a Plymouth (the new Chrysler
low-price car) came first with an average
speed of 2.24 m.p.h.
* * * *
“Whizz”: Segrave has given his new
car a preliminary flutter on a three-quarter
throttle. The speed attained wms only 180
m.p.h., with the American figures of 207.5
m.p.h. to be beaten when the actual trial
of speed comes. It can only be regarded
as a tuning-up go, however, and there may
be one or two others before the official crack
at the world’s figures comes off—it may be
this week. Malcolm Campbell, the other
British motorist after the distinction, seems
to have struck a dud with his South African
lake-bed track at Verneuk Pan. Trials have
shown the surface to be unsatisfactory, while
the official timekeepers, imported from Eng-
land, w r ill be unable to prolong their stay
beyond the middle of this month, by which
time it was hoped to have made the attempt.
* * * *
“Hardshell”: Memory of a long-buried
corpse was revived in France the other day,
w r hen one of the newspapers published a cir-
cular issued in 1907 by the League Against
Automobile Excesses. The circular was par-
ticularly down on motor speed racing, then
beginning to come into vogue. The pero-
ration of a heartfelt curse against motors in
general was to the effect that the auto’s
wheels were so stained with blood that the
public would have no more of “these engines
of death and destruction.” The motor-car
still flourishes, however, in spite of the fact
that death and destruction are still all too
often in evidence.
* * * *
“Cut Out”: The advent on Australian
tracks of Fay Taylour is a reminder that
there are swarms of women riding motor-
cycles in Europe as freelances, or for the
big manufacturing firms. One recently
prominent is) Mrs. Stewart, who has
cracked several of the innumerable records
attaching to motor-cycling. Riding a 350-c.e.
TI.S. with a J.A.P. engine at Brooklands
lately, the lady spun over 100 miles at 70.9
m.p.h., and 50 miles at 70.7 m.p.h. Another
new set of figures was her hour’s run of
70.9 miles. It seems a weird sort, of occupa-
tion for a married woman, but then so are
the golf and bridge which engross so many
of the sisterhood.
5jC * * #
“Yawn” : Two motor-cyclists set out from
Perth for Sydney. As they rode one night
their lights failed, with the result that they
had to proceed in the gloom, both falling
asleep while doing so. When they woke up, it
was to find that their faithless machine had
taken them far off the track in the darkness.
Light Horsemen in the last war found that
sleeping on horseback was a practicable
possibility. Instances of a motor-cycle rider
taking 40 winks on his fiery steed are not so
well authenticated.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: The Standen incident
has entered a new phase. When disqualified
by the international cycling authorities for
breaking his Olympic pledge, the Australian
cyclist, who had turned professional, con-
tinued to fulfil a profitable engagement on the
plea that the cabled ban was not “official.”
The official ukase has now arrived, but
Standen has entered an appeal, which will
give him more breathing—and earning—tim".
He has no earthly chance of winning, but
by that time should have cleaned up a good
cut. Then he will possibly try America,
which does not recognise the International
Cycling Union.
* * i|« *
“Sprocket” : With Jack Standen gone over
to the professionals, the Goulburn (N.S.W.)
cyclist Duncan Gray, also an Australian
Olympic representative, is having things all
his own way. Goulburn is cycling mad, and
the local championships count for much in
Australian cycling. Gray won all four at the
recent meeting, from the quarter to the 5
miles, and. is regarded by his townsfolk in
much the same light as is Don Bradman by
the good cits of Bowral.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer”: The world’s sprint cham-
pionship at Melbourne Motordrome was won
by L. Cooper, the Victorian, who annexed (lie
last Stawell Gift. Cooper totalled 19 points for
the four events, winning the 220, and coming
second in the 75, 100 and 130 events. Queens-
lander Miles, last year’s champion, won the
75, but his old leg injury hampered him
in the other races. Times were only fair for
an event of such pretensions; Angus Robert-
son’s performance in breaking evens in the
130, with 12$sec., was the best. The Mel-
bourne Thousand Sheffield Handicap was won
by South Australian J. A. Hunter, off 6£
yards, in 12sec. —a good run.
* * * *
“Spike”: The Victorian and N.S.W.
athletic championships afforded a useful com-
parison between Olympic representative
Jim Carlton and his Victorian rival, L. M.
Smith, of St. Stephen’s Harriers, also an
ex-G.P.S. sprinter. At Manly, Carlton could
do no better in the 100 than 10 l-10sec.,
while Smith, on a sodden surface in Mel-
bourne, was clocked at 9 9-10 sec. Smith has
beaten evens for this distance on at least
one other occasion, while Carlton has never
been able to do so, though he has in the
.220. A meeting between the pair would
be worth timing.
* * * *
“Retired Gun”: I witnessed a revival
of a very old sporting event when
sprinter E. Goode raced a greyhound over
75 yards in Sydney. Taking a start of 28
yards, Goode won both the races. The grey-
hound’s average mileage per hour has been
computed at 33.7. and a man’s at only 15.9.
On that, the tyke should have been able to
give the human at least 35 yards and win.
Perhaps this one was an inferior tyke, or
wasn’t trying.
*. * * *
“Lno-dali”: Recent events in Switzerland
should interest Tasmanians and Queensland-
ers. Four years ago the spiked republic sud-
denly came to the conclusion that the numerous
casinos, kursaals and semi-official gambling
dens with which the country abounded were a
reflection on its respectability. The hotels and
tourist agencies warned the reformers of the
consequences, but a referendum decided by
345.000 votes to 107.000 that gambling
should be abolished. The warnings came
true. Tourist traffic decreased enormously,
revenue declined, the cost of living went up
and a serious economic and financial crisis
threatened. Being a sound racial mixture of
Puritanism and business shrewdness the
Swiss called for another referendum, and
by 270,000 votes to 240,000 the scarlet temp-
tation was restored.
* * * *
“Vicoars” : A Vic. lake regatta provided com-
peting oarsmen with somewhat of a conun-
drum in the way of a starter. Crews were
informed by the very cheerful official that he
would start them on a line between a duck
on the lake and a tree on the far bank.
As*t.he regatta committee had not taken the
necessary precaution of mooring the duck the
race was hung up until a bystander helped
the starter out of his difficulties.
* * * *
“Blade”: Les Callaghan’s decision to
retire from rowing atfer the coming King’s
Cup race at Perth will deprive N.S.W. of
one of the finest and most consistent strokes
the game has known since Roger Fitz-
hardinge. The Mosman man has been mar-
vellously successful at home and away with
his crew, and will this year achieve his
darling ambition, to stroke the club eight
F.C. TOONE, secretary of Yorkshire and
for the third time in succession manager
of an English eleven in Australia.
(May Moore photo.)
as N.S.W. representatives in the inter-
state race. If the Red and Whites win, as
many expect them to do, liis cup of happi-
ness is likely to slop over.
* * * *
“Te Ivuiti”: Maoriland’s annua] rowing
championships do not include a race for
eights; fours are Hamilton
Club, which recently figured at Henley-on-
Yarra, won the champion fours at Picton,
covering the two mi.es in llmin. 34 1-osec.
In the sculls, C. Turner unexpectedly defeated
the champion, A. K. Jackson, who faced
Pearce on the Parramatta a month or so ago.
\ pity M.L and Australian oarsmen do not
meet oftener. Both would benefit by the
experience. * * *
“Shrewsbury”: This year’s Oxford and
Cambridge boatrace, to be rowed on March
23, will mark the centenary of the famous
One of the exhibits will be the origi-
nal boat in which Oxford rowed in 1829. A
long and open fixed-seat craft, its portrait
shows it in striking contrast to the fiagile
outrigged shells of to-day.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro”: The move for the trans-
fer of the Brisbane Rugby League to the
A. V. KEWNEY, secretary of the V.R.C.,
now in the throes oj its Autumn Meet-
ing at Flemington.
amateur Union has, fortunately, proved
abortive, though two clubs of the League
will go over to its rival. The League dealt
firmly with the rebellion by disqualifying
the two ringleaders, though, as both are also
officials of one of the seceding clubs, the
punishment carries little sting. This follows
the precedent of the N.S.W. League, which
some years ago disqualified for life one of
its players who rejoined the Union—the first
instance on record of a professional being
declared an amateur as a punishment.
* * * *
“Ja”: A sporting Balmain (N.S.W.)
butcher was made president of our junior
football team. He handed over his donation,
and promised a pound of sausages for every
try scored. The team got 24 tries in the
first match. The president handed out the
241 b. weight of encased mystery, one wing
three-quarter collecting 121 b. The second
match saw another big win. Although the
butcher-president was quite prepared to keep
his promise, the boys unanimously absolved
him.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Queensland Rugby Union ex-
pects to enter on its new lease of existence
this season with five senior clubs —Y.M.C.A.,
Technical College, University, Valley and
Past Grammar. A good many League senior
players have joined up with the new body.
Tom Lawton, the Oxford and Waratah five-
eighth, is turning out, and will also help
with coaching. No. 1 oval at the Exhibition
has been secured for the big matches, and
there should be no complaint on this score.
* * * *
“Rover”: The N.S.W. Australian Rules
League intends bringing teams from Mel-
bourne, Perth and Tas. this season, in
addition to the regular inter-State fixtures
with Queensland and Victoria. The game
is making great headway in the country,
there being now 14 district associations cov-
ering 84 clubs. The most urgent need of
the League in N.S.W. is the control of an
enclosed metropolitan ground in a central
position.
*{c s{j >}:
“Spinner”: Australia is at last to get a
little of the big-game fishing limelight in
which Maoriland has been basking for some
time. Zane Grey, who can be trusted to
write the thing up properly, is planning a
cruise of six months in North Australian
waters, from Brisbane round to Perth, while
detours will be made to New Guinea and
Cocos. A large yacht fitted with fishing
launches is being sought to carry the party
of fishermen and naturalists. It only remains
for the Australian fish to rise to a sense
of their responsibilities and do their best to
advertise Australia. There are sharks
galore in the waters to be fished, as 'well
as the swordfish and sailfish so popular with
the M.L. anglers.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Hambledon”: North Queenslanders have
been arguing the possibility of manufac-
turing artificial silk from megass (crushed
sugar-cane) for so long that it began to
look as if the project would be shelved.
Land has now been bought on the Mulgrave
River, near Cairns, and a factory is to be
erected ; the megass will come from the Mul-
grave mill. The chief initial trouble will be
the training of the staff, the work being
new to Australia.
* * * *
“Boss”: Gullett, Minister for Trade and
Customs, slipped when he said that no
Australian meat had entered the U.S.A. for
years. The truth is that Australia has
supplied Hawaii and the Philippines, both
U.S. territories, with a great deal of meat,
largely for the use of the garrisons. In the
past couple of years the trade, especially to
Hawaii, has jumped considerably.
* * * *
“942”: Faults they may have, but the
Irish do persist. Two hundred years ago
they produced an excellent tobacco leaf,
but vested interests in Virginian planta-
tions persuaded the Government of the day
to forbid the culture of tobaeco in Ireland.
Under Free State rule a descendant of the
original growers has re-established the in-
dustry ; and now you can buy Irish tobacco
in Australian shops.
*'* * *
“Grafton”: The Clarence River supplies
Sydney with a good part of the fish it con-
sumes. Last year’s output was valued at
£64.702. The ice used weighed 1050 tons,
and £4172 10s. was paid in freight charges.
The industry is thriving, and it supports a
very fine class of Australians.
* * * *
“M.L.C.”: Some very fine machinery is
being installed in the flax and canvas fac-
tory in Launceston, including the first auto-
matic flax-scutelling machine ever exported
from Europe. Flax-growing is gaining in
popularity in the Speck; the price is a
guaranteed minimum of £6 per ton. In one
district where flax and oats were grown side
by side the oats suffered so severely from the
wet spring that it wasn’t worth cutting, but
a fair average crop was harvested off the
flax paddock, and growers announce their
intention of increasing their sowings this
autumn.
* * * *
“Notwen”: Travelling among the Murray
fruit settlements I have seen a vast variety
of bird-scaring devices, many of them very
efficient. The most original idea, however,
was that of attaching long chains to the
legs of live hawks and tethering them at
intervals among the trees and vines. These
hawks were the property of an old grower,
who had succeeded in taming them. During
the fruit harvest they more than earned their
keep as guardians of the crop. During the
remainder of the year their wings were
clipped, and they wandered at liberty round
the homestead.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Touching those four Cingalese
who are to give instruction in the art of
desiccating cocoanuts at Port Moresby (B.
27/2/’29). If Ceylon is not the original
home of the nyiur it is the land where the
fruit approaches nearest perfection and where
it has been exploited probably to the limit.
A Cingalese family which owns a grove of
the trees can, if it likes, be absolutely self-
contained. The tree will supply food, drink,
clothing and building material. I once
started counting the number of uses the
cocoanut was put to in a village and gave
up at 70; European ingenuity has added
another couple of dozen. It is reckoned by
the promoters of the Port Moresby enter-
prise that the dried product can undersell
the imported article and that there is a good
chance of barging into the markets of “the
East.”
* * * *
“D.”: The French, say the cables, are
agitating again for a Channel tunnel. The
lack of one, of course, keeps thousands of
Continental tourists out of England every
year, and it. also keeps thousands of Britons
out of France, where they are an even more
fruitful source of revenue. Some objections
to the scheme are that it would cost a million
sterling a mile ; that the 22 miles of sub-
way would take a lot of ventilating (the
atmosphere of London’s “tube” is bad enough,
and there the traveller comes up for air
every few miles as a rule) ; that the day of
the airship is fast approaching, while that
of the passenger ’plane, which crosses the
Channel in a few minutes, has arrived; and
that the tunnel would have to be destroyed
in the event of certain war contingencies.
It would have had to go, for example, if the
Germans had reached the Channel Ports in
1918. The British would have most to lose
and least to gain from every point of view
by the arrival of the tunnel. The Conti-
nental tourist is a poor spender, whereas
the Briton is a lavish one.


m
■;H
STROPS
ITSULF
\i \y
ft
i m
wma
y
aST;
H
ll®,
m
£Si
ltMift
L2?fe
J&" 6
No. 99 SET. Contains the essentials for a
perfect "Valet” shave—the razor,
strop and three blades in leather-
ette-covered case
3/-
Managing Agents for Australia’ —
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
New Zealand Agents:
VAN STAVEREN BROS., Ltd., Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch.
“What does that mean —‘Strops
itself’?”
“There’s a stropping device built into
the head of the razor —strop just slips
through the razor head!**
“Yes —and then?”
“Then all you do is run the Valet Auto-
Strop razor to and fro. Click, click—
and the blade is instantly sharpened
without taking it out of the frame.’*
“Surely that sharpens only one side
of the edge?”
“No, no both sides are stropped
alternately.’’
“Should be pretty sharp when
you’ve finished.”
“Sharp! It’s the keenest razor edge
there is—and it lasts for months.”
“Stropping take long?”
“Ten seconds each morning, and you
get the same principle right through
the Valet range: 3/-, 8/6 or 217-
All dealers sell them.”
“Good. I’ll get one to-day.”
A. CL
Unit
PUT IT IN YOUR
PRESENT SET CABINET
MAGNAVCX
DYNAMIC
KADI O
/DEADER
It reproduces notes that
no other speaker can*
Radio Magazine calls it
"really astounding.” The
unit fits right in your
present cabinet.
For A Battery operation,
£7/15/-
For A.C. operation,
£lO/10/-
YOUR NEAREST RADIO
DEALER CAN SUPPLY.
Australian Patent v
No. 722 j.
w
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
12
H
lO
Cl«i»
4
ELGIN the very name inspires confi-
dence. Long years of experience in watch
manufacture, the skill of craftsmen
trained in the Elgin factories, all go to
make the keynote of Elgin fame
reliability.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
&lgin
FHE WATCH WORD FOR ELECANCE AND EFFICIENCY
jhi? Jrade Mark in the Watch Case
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.


Under
Royal
/Varrant
Vintage 1920.
ToH.M.
Kin*
George V
champagne
1,1
CHAMPAGNE
Cbailesllcidsitffc
Heims
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY,
PELLISSOiM
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Averts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
15he WENTWORTH
A Hotel of ‘Distinction
To which men and women of Distinction the world over
return time after time. Built on historic Church Hill, it
has itself become of almost historic interest. Here, in the
heat of summer is the cool and restful comfort that results
from scientific ventilation, and in winter cold winds are
forgotten in its centrally heated atmosphere. Here, too,
are a perfect cuisine, a spacious lounge and efficient
service—service so graciously given that it has earned
for the Hotel in Australia and Overseas the title of
The friendly Wentworth
CABLE ADDRESS: MUM, SYDNEY. TELEPHONE: BWI3 61.
52Macleay St.
Limited
The Company will transfer its
business to the new Private Hotel
in Greenknowe Avenue, Potts
Point, in March, 1929, where it
will feature Central Heating,
Private Baths and Telephones to
each room.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views.
Inclusive Tariff from £5/5/-
per week, or £l/1/- per day.
Bed and Breakfast from
£4/4/. per week, or 16/-
per day.
For appointment to view ’ph° ne
F 2161 (4 lines). Telegraphic
Address: Fifmac, Sydney.
AWOMAN'
LETTER
A romance that Sydney watched in the
bud all last season bloomed into diamonds
last week when graceful Kathleen Robinson
announced her engagement to Captain
M. E. 11. Tenfold, the slimmest and surely
the gentlest A.D.C. a Governor ever had in
his train. Captain Tenfold was on Sir
Dudley’s staff before he gave up the job for
commerce.
Just as this Letter was putting its ink
into pink, Eve Goddard, of Cremorne, was
walking up the aisle of St. Andrew’s to wed
C. M. C. Shannon, general manager of the
Australian Bank of Commerce. The bride
is a good looker with curly locks, and the
romance caused the adding machines in the
bank to be almost humanly incorrect from
sheer excitement.
This 'afternoon at three o'clock the Vic-
toria League pulls the wrinkles out of its
socks, powders its nose arid prepares to
welcome Lady de Chair back to the fold.
Her Ex. is president of the League, and
tea with suitable 'speeches will be served
in her honor at the Women’s Club in
Elizabetli-street. A record roll-up is ex-
pected by secretary Beulah Bolton, so mem-
bers are limited to one guest apiece.
Japan’s Consul-General Tokugawa under-
went the protracted farewell of popu-
larity. Last week the Women’s Country Club
sweetened their leave-taking with a dance,
and the Queensland soprano Jeanette Ethel-
ston sang the national anthem of the land
of the Rising Sun as its Consul-General
entered the reception-room. President Mrs.
George Irvine, her black velvets lightly
sprayed with diaments, greeted the guest, and
afterwards, through a room cooled with the
breath of begonias and hydrangea, Virginia
Bassctti, Mrs. Ainsworth arid Clement Hos-
kins poured a stream of song. All the
Consuls brought their wives, and Minister
for Works Buttenshaw was supported by
Mrs. Buttenshaw, whose old-rose georgettes
were weighted with crystal embroideries.
The indomitable and ever-seductive Nell is
to play Zaza in Melbourne; she was busy
over the designing of her frocks the other
morning when this Letter was looking for
one and a half yards of leopard to make
one of the new flat chokers. The frocks will
be ravishing, and one at least will have the
Louis Boulanger bustle. The dress-designers-
in-chief are always pleased to make frocks
for Miss Stewart, whose pliable figure is the
ideal measurement. Her limbs arc those of
youth, arid the 1929 edition of old fashions
would seem to have been created for her.
The Chisholm-Brian nuptials took half of
social Sydney to Goulburn Cathedral last
Monday; and when dainty Ann Chisholm,
of Kippilaw, stepped up the aisle to meet
Stephen Brian she drew after her a lace
tuain woven for some bride of 200 years ago.
The satin in the bride’s classic frock was
vellum-tinted to match the soft yellow tone
of the old lace. Four ’maids in yellow chif-
fons, very long and graceful, topped by
yellow straw hats, made up the procession.
Begonias, yellow roses and golden orchids
filled the ; bride’s hands with trembling
cream-and-gold beauty ; and armlets of deep
red roses and golden orchids, from which
flowed golden ribbons, were the floral burden
of her attendants. Breakfast in a great
marquee off the verandahs of Kippilaw,
where Mr. and Mrs. Frank welcomed the
guests amiflst a profusion of deep red and
yellow roses. Future home at Inverell.
The largest dinner dance of last week was
staged by the Italian Chamber of Commerce
at the Wentworth to Consul-General Gros-
sardi and his auburn-tressed wife. Italy’s
flag hung from the balcony, and the green of
Italy glowed about the festivities like ribbons
of pasture land after flood rain. Chairman
Rossi bowed the official welcome to Donna
Grossardi, very slim in black lace, and her
husband. Among the notables who attended
were Premier Bavin and Chief Commis-
sioner Garlick. As for the frocking, sequins
and diamente flashed merrily on much pale
pink and pale blue georgette; the same
material of the rich chenille-embossed variety
also took the floor with distinction. Of
such was the raiment worn by Dr. Bernardi’s
lady, which held in its folds as many blues
as the sea. Mrs. Italio Rossi wore one of
the new long-sleeved effects in black lace
garnished with silver, and had a mitten-
sleeved neighbor in Mrs. John Garlick, whose
frock was also of black lace. Clever Dr.
Marie Bentivoglio, Prince del Drago and
the Vice-Consular Vitalis were others to be
noted.
A wedding that caused a mild flutter in
Mosmnn was that of Vida May Stedman,
grand-daughter of James Stedman, the maker
of sweets, and John Angus Murray Armi-
tage, commonly known as “Tige” by Ins
old school friends. His six foot three of
brawn and muscle and his Scotch names
come from his forebears, the Camerons
and the Murrays of Lochaber and Fort
William in the Highlands. “Tige” is a great
athlete; he played football for North Shore
High in its early days of footer renown, and
went with a Sydney Uni. team through M.L.
He has lived in Mosman all his 2S years,
on land that was the property of grandfather
John Armitage at least 70 years ago. The
bridegroom’s mother, by the way, was one
of the early women M.A.’s of Sydney Uni;
father is Inspector of Factories' for New
South Wales.
The Stedman-Armitage nuptials, were car-
ried out with a flourish at St. Philip’s. The
small bride, in a shimmer of satin misted
over with tulle, walked the aisle under
father’s escort, her fishtail of satin and long
wash of tulle being followed demurely by
sister Violet and friend Marjorie Simpson.
They wore apple-green satin frocks whose
high-powered diamante buckles • caught the
light, apple-green satin shoes and soft green
felt hats wreathed with silver leaves. Their
flowers were pink gladioli and frangipanni,
while the expensive-looking bride was com-
plete with orchids. A wedding march com-
posed by the bridegroom’s grandfather, Hugo
Alpin, played John Angus Armitage and his
bride down the first path in the estate of
matrimony after uncle-padre Isaac Armitage.
had made the knot secure. The six feet of
lieutenant Walter Armitage, of H.M.A.S,
Canberra, added considerable social tonnage
to the wedding group. A floral lady of
olden time, formed in valentine fashion of
blue forget-mc nots surrounded by Maeter-
linck’s pretty but rather over-worked blue
birds for happiness, were the decorations
of the bride’s • table at the Australia,
where Mrs. Stedman did the honors in
a frock of mixed beige lace and chiffon and
black millinery, in which panne velvet and
slim plumes were wedded.
The fete at the Mater Hospital is to be
opened in true carnival style in the even-
ting. At half-past seven, when the last glim-
mer of daylight has died away, and the
lanterns in the tree-tops and the electrics
over the stalls are pricking the velvet of
the night. Dr. Richard Arthur, Minister for
Health, will declare the fete open.
Australia will be there! The girl with
the whimsical eyes went four years ago from
N u 1 lamanna,
Inverell, t o
Japan as Dora
Cory, a gradu-
ate of Sydney
Uni., to take
up a position
on the staff of
the Peers’
School, in
Tokyo. Now
she is Mrs.
D c n n i s Mc-
Avoy. She has
the distinction
of having been
the first
woman and
the only
“forei g n ”
teacher at this
school, which
is the Eton of
Japan. Before
her wedding a
few weeks ago Miss Cory was honored by
a command from the Imperial Palace to
a farewell tea-drinking with the Royal
family, with whom she had been associated
through her work at the Peers’ School.
Prince Sumi, the Emperor’s younger brother,
paid eloquent testimony to the benefit he
had derived from the Australian’s girl’s
tuition. Furthermore, the Prince sent her
a picture for a wedding present, while an-
other brother, Prince Fushimi, expressed
his good wishes in a handsome cheque.
Royalty all the world over can be depended
on to do the graceful thing, and a father and
mother in Inverell are delighted at the
recognition won by their clever daughter.
The wedding, incidentally, caused quite a
ripple in social Tokyo, and St. Andrew’s, the
Anglican Church, was packed with edu-
cational and British Embassy somebodies to
see the shimmering white bride trail her
tulle and silver tissue and old Venetian point
to the altar. Padre F. C. Mercer linked
her to Dennis A. McAvoy, who is one of the
heads of the Rising Sun Petroleum Company
in Hong Kong, where the future home will
be. Jessica Cory, an enterprising sister, runs
a kindergarten for British children at the
rather fashionable address of 12 Shinryu-
duclio, Tokyo.
The daughter of Henry Parkes died re-
cently, and now another feminine link with
old-time N.S.W. politics has answered
the call —Mrs. Laura Macßriar, a daughter
of George Dibbs. She removed herself from
the whirligig of politics by marrying a
North Queensland man, but she had lived for
years past in Roseville, Sydney. The war
robbed her of two of her three sons.
Dr Fanny Reading, president of the
NSW Council of Jewish Women, has had
her name inscribed in the Golden Book kept
in Jerusalem to chronicle the names of
those who have done well for Jewry. Besides
beino- a register of Jewish distinction, the
book" which now runs to several volumes, is
an ingenious device for raising funds for
Palestine restoration; it costs those who
desire to bestow upon somebody the honor
of an inscription a minimum of £2O. The
money goes in the .purchase of land fiom the
Arab owners.
When she was a schoolgirl Florrie Howard
adopted the United Charities Fund, and as
soon as she
was big enough
she took a box
out on Collec-
ti o n Da y .
Next, she or-
ganised a stall
at Lewisham,
where she and
her helpers
made a success
great enough
to warrant an
adventure into
the city. Every
year since she
and her band
of girl friends
have held the
same stand.
Lilt not only
on Collection
Day does Miss
Howard work:
her labor of
love continues all through the year. Her
official title is assistant organising secretary,
and she is first-lieutenant to organising secre-
tary Upjohn. Just now she is visiting the
industrial houses in the city, talking to the
girls, and enlisting their interest in the
United Charities Queen, who, mainly through
Miss Howard’s drive, should make a truly
regal showing in the Queen Competition run
in connection with the Firemen’s Art Union.
The portrait is by Dayne. ,
This Letter had a bird’s-eye view the other
morning of bird’s-eye tweed, of sports cos-
tumes (most of them from. Vienna) in soft
Shetlands and Jersey cloths with geometric
and cubist designs on jumper and skirt hem,
and of colorful velvet, satin and laec staring
through glass doors like peacocks with a
hundred eyes. Soon these featherweight
tweeds, into which the tones of heather,
of grass and stone and leaf have been woven,
will work themselves into the color scheme
of our Indian-summer winter. The buyers
for the big shops are beginning to consider
light and atmosphere in their purchases for
Australian sister, and here are gladsome-
looking fabrics even for ensemble and top-
coat. All colors are good, with perhaps 1 a
bias towards browns and yellows and the
deeper tones of blue. Astrakhan is again
in favor, both in black and grey. Lace
frocks are the decree for restaurant wear.
Lace-clocked sheer stockings will need shorn
calves for their proper presentment to the
multitude. Bustle bows and superficial
fullness over a clinging sleekness give the
feminine outline for which women has reso-
lutely turned her back on the robot figure.
And every day and in every way artificial
jewels are to be worn. Onyx and diamond
clasps are popular, and bracelets made with
several rows of pearls between two rows of
diamonds are a vogue of the moment. Orna-
ments for dresses and hats made of beaten
silver and crusted with small gems are
fashioned into old Viking ships, gondolas
and parrots on - a perch (these inlet with
chipped jewels to get the vivid coloring of
the plumage). The quaintest thing seen was
an ostrich of silver, from whose tail feathers
descended by a thin silver chain a turquoise
egg. When you jerked the egg the head and
tail of the bird wmggled.
Handbags of black reindeer are the goods.
You can buy a plain one with gold fastenings
for 20 guineas. Or you can pay 19
guineas for a hand-knitted set which
includes a tight little hat, a scarf and a
bag of the envelope variety. One colorful
set was in navy blue, red and grey wool
galloons.
Dr. Norman Haire, who is recognised as
one of the world's greatest specialists in
obstetrics and allied subjects, lost his mother
with the death of Mrs. Clara Zions, of
Paddington, Sydney. The old lady, 76 when
the end came, left a family of 11 behind
her. Norman won a hatful of scholarships
in his student days.
Pretty and dark and just tall enough to
reach to his heart George Frederick Osborne
Throsby (that’s his full name, but lie’s
entirely human) found Peggy Lawson when
lie met her at a dance in Sydney. That’s
four years ago. He still finds her all three,
and a bit more, wherefore the ring has been
bought and the engagement announced.
George, one of the bright legal minds that
make Stephen Court a lighthouse in Eliza-
beth-street, is the third son of the Frank
Throsbys, of Throsby Park, Moss \ ale.
Peggy is the elder daughter of the Campbell
Lawsons, of Hill End (N.S.W.), and has
a strong bias in favor of all forms of out-
door exercise.
Agnes Bindley, of Armidale, staged her
wedding last week in St. {Stephen's, where
Dr. Ernest Steel, of Lindfield, was waiting
to claim her at the hands of Padre J.
llannen. Georgette and tulle swirled about
the bride, who was followed by sister Pauline
and Christine Steel in lace frock's of blue and
pink. The subsequent reception was hos-
tessed by Mrs. D. W. Bindley in a black
georgette ensemble.
Eunice McFadyen, of Lindfield, a sister of
poetess Ella, slipped around the corner to
St. Martin’s Church in Killara one morning
last week, and over a fragrant cluster of
frangipanni murmured her “I wills” to C.
,7. Cameron, of Beechmont, Queensland. The
wedding frock of guipure lace was supported
by the pale pink georgettes of ’maid Ruth
Wilson. Toasts at the bride's home.
Seven hundred women of all shapes and
sizes stormed the David Jones premises the
other afternoon to play bridge for the benefit
of tin; Hospice for the Dying. The big room
was a packed mass of summer finery, and
the function brought, with Government sub-
sidy and so on, close on £2OO for the fund.
Sweets and cigarettes were bought in lavish
fashion. A languishing cushion doll, all
long limbs and blue frills, was numbered,
and by intriguing all-comers to pay a small
fee for a guess at. her registration she added,
despite the boredom of her eyelashes, quite
a neat sum to the total takings. Committee-
president Mrs. M. J. Slattery looked posi-
tively complacent. Mrs. ll'arry Burrell, an-
other hard worker, was as radiant as the
brand-new Sunbeam that pawed at the kerb
for her; Violet Lavery and Josephine Marks
were as busy and as satisfied as bees in a
field of clover, and secretaries Mrs. Coen and
Mrs. D. Cahalan- proved that a good bridge
hand was a direct prevention of threatened
writer’s cramp.
In addition to the general business at the
annual meeting of the Kindergarten Union,
to be held at the Kindergarten Training Col-
lege in Henrietta-street, Waverley, on Thurs-
day week, there will be a garden party, at
which Lady do Chair will be present, and
also a display of kindergarten work by child-
ren from the Frances Newton Free Kinder-
garten.
It was not till the spring of 1020 that
this Letter met Lala Fisher. The poetess
marked the occasion by a gift of “Earth
Spiritual,” a collection of her poems bound
in brown and green “to represent earth and
foliage.” In this book appears “Flowers,”
which won the Lone Hand prize for verse
in February, 1009, under its first editor.
Frank Fox. Lala had a great heart, a sensi-
tive fancy aifd an unsurpassable gift for
friendship.
Joyce Joske of Double Bay was made Mrs.
Douglas Reid of Adelaide over the week-end.
Old St. John’s, in Darlinghurst, became a
floral bower for the vows; and the bride’s
bouquet was an exotic affair of forced
November lilies and croton leaves. Follow-
ing the usual snowdrift of satin and tulle
which enfolded the bride, her one ’maid,
Margot Reid, in yellow georgettes, suggested
an early primrose. Mr. and Mrs. A. Joske
summoned their guests to the Rose Bay
Golf Club to empty a glass.
An appropriate appointment is that of Dr.
Elma Sandford-Morgan as Assistant-Director
of Maternal and Baby Welfare of N.S.W.
She will work with the present director,
Dr. Sydney Morris. Dr. Sandford-Morgan
is a graduate of Sydney Uni., and for a
time was medical registrar of the Royal
Prince Alfred and resident medical officer
at the Children’s Hospital. She has studied
ophthalmology in London, and been in charge
of an emergency hospital in the Central
Punjab; it was while she was head of the
women’s hospital in Bagdad that she met
her husband, Major Sandford-Morgan, the
well-known organiser for St. Luke’s.
Admiral Sir Edmund Robert Fremantle,
who died recently in England, aged 92, met
his life partner when, he was serving on the
Sydney station in the Eclipse in 1866. She
was Barberina, eldest daughter of Robert
Isaacs, LL.D., who was Solicitor-General in
James Martin’s Ministry. The lady’s brother,
who became Isaacs, S.M., was noted for his
bench witticisms ; he and a sister, who mar-
ried Canon H. W. Mort, are both living in
Sydney.
“A.G.M.’s” line from London :
The only jocular remark attributed to the King
during the long period when his life was despaired
of was made on the day when he was moved into
an adjoining room for a couple of hours. Asked
by a doctor how he had enjoyed the change, George
Rex replied that “it was not exactly like picking
primroses.” Now a very cheerful spirit pervades
the “Buck House,” .as Buckingham Palace is known
to the Family, and it is gravely chronicled that the
Prince of Wales has taken to sporting a red carna-
tion in his evening coat.


r
ih-
fcif:
A
2
.
::_g
Mil
ssa,
Electricity
is your cheapest servant
IF YOU USE
I
Household Electric Appliances
Because they not only are economical in them-
selves, but they save you endless time, work
and fatigue. You can cook in comfort on
the meal table anything you want. You have
no need for the kitchen, with its hot gas or
wood fire stove, its tiring work, when you
cook the Universal way.
Call in at our nearest Showroom and ask to be
shown how these Universal Appliances can
save you time and Work.
W. G. WATSON & CO., LTD.
279 Clarence Street, Sydney
29 Hunter Street, Newcastle
200 Queen Street, Melbourne
28 Coromandel Place, Adelaide
933 Hay Street* Perth
53 Charlotte Street, Brisbane
33 Argyle Street, Hobart.
Beauty and
Economy
FLORENCE
WICKLESS
OIL
STOVES
NU-LITE LAMPS
Faultless and flawless—
no wick, chimney
smoke, smell, grease,
dirt, trouble or danger.
Twenty times as power-
ful as an ordinary wick
oil lamp—burns con-
tinuously for 14 hours
at one filling.
The Florence is a beautiful stove. Its shining black and grey
porcelain enamel adds to the appearance of any kitchen.
Its sturdy frame is built for years of service. Easy to operate,
lights as easily as a gas stove. Easy to care for—no wicks to
clean—no smoked walls or roofs in your kitchen.
Then Florence Focussed Heat—all of which is useful heat
no waste. This quick, willing, efficient heat, intensely hot,
assures quicker cooking always.
The Florence burns kerosene—saves time and money. No
installation expenses.
Call and see them, or write for free illustrated descriptive
booklets.
BRANDTS
LIMITED,
“Everything for Light and Heat,”
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phones: M 465 I; MAI 002.
Queensland Agents —
J. T. Greenlees & Co., Ann St., Brisbane
ilichelmoie & Co., Mackay.
Armstrong, Leslie & Stillman,
Cairns.
Samuel Allen & Sons,
Townsville.
Agencies open in other States
SCFTLy SI I M i n i;
CURVES
61
O
or
■7.
*
o
Mi
n
>
e
BRING NEW BEAUTY
NEW CHARM TG
THE FIGURE
Each woman’s individual figure charm is
answered in the new designs of Gossard
foundation garments. New designs, new
materials, new elastics are most skillfully
co-ordinated in a group of combinations,
solitaires, step-ins, front lacing corsets ....
so skillfully, indeed, that the moment you
try them on you are convinced they are
designed expressly for your figure.
Ask to See this
New Step4n
Those envied, softly supported curves, the
new charm and figure beauty are instantly
achieved through this new elastic step-in
by Gossard. Its length, fourteen inches,
permits it to easily control the hips ♦. ♦.
blends the line of the waist, hips and thighs
into one flowing curve.
Worn with it is an uplift bandeau of
French design, made of satin tricot. It
tapers to a narrow back which shows an
insert of soft elastic.
The Canadian H. W. Gossard Co., Ltd.
114-120 Castlereagh Street
SYDNEY, N. S. W.
GOSSARDS ARE MADE WITHIN THE EMPIRE


\
\' l ' f /
IK
Seen Through the Engagement Ring
First in the series of happy visions seen
through the Engagement Ring is that
portrayed on the left.
View the happy day through a Catanach
Engagement Ring, with every one of which
is given a WRITTEN GUARANTEE.
Catalog post jree on request.
Cor. Royal Arcade & Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
ŵ
ẁ
ẅ
Melbourne
Chatter
Newmarket Day this year was a sweltering
one, and the crowd developed a thirst of
gigantic proportions. The attendance was
large. The G.-G. was a late-comer, hot the
State Governor and Lady Somers were there
for luncheon, her Ex. wearing a sunburnt
straw hat that blended with a ninon frock
on which were seismograpliic lines of brown
and nutmeg. In the v.-r. company during
the afternoon were .T. A. M. Elder and his
lady, she in grey and black figured georgette,
and the Norton Grimwades, Mrs. Grimwade
having a floppy primrose straw hat above a
sapphire-blue ensemble outfit. The chairman
of the V.R.C., L. IC. S. Mackinnon, made a
welcome reappearance after his long illness
and received the vice-regals. Flowered chif-
fons and ninons were first favorites in the
dress parade. The filmy materials were
made up in longish bodices, with flounces or
handkerchief pieces falling in points. Mrs.
Gordon Chirnside struck an original note in
a sleeveless white georgette frock with a
short sac coat of tin l same fabric, worked in
cafneo spots in tiny gold heads. Her large
straw hat was of pale honey tone. Mrs.
Robert Lindsay, arrayed in hydrangea-blue
lace, had with her daughter Joyce in bis-
cuit-colored broderie anglais and georgette,
Mrs. George Blackwood was one of the
patterned chiffon wearers. Mrs. Gcnge Mar-
tin. from Angathella in Bananaland, trimmed
a navy blue georgette frock with grey frills.
The Mayor was there with Mrs. Luxton, who
chose a beige accordeon-pleated gown and
darker millinery. Mrs. Fred Thiel was
smartly gowned, and Mrs. A. Y. Kewney
wore spotted crepe de Chine in navy and
fawn. Dozens of gay parasols rivalled in
their gay hues the window-boxes of petunias
and pansies that bordered the big stand.
The Sbradbroke Cup polo matches at
Moonee Valley brought the country to town,
and some of Victoria’s best known squat-
tages were represented. Only one N.S.W.
team —Ihverell —was entered. The opening
games were played in ideal weather, and the
little white ball sped over a flat that has
never before been so green during a polo
fixture. A serious accident to Major Nimmo,
who collided with an opponent in an exciting
moment at the goal, put a gloom over the
outing and closed the first afternoon’s pro-
gramme. Motor-cars, as usual, formed a
sort of d.-c. around the ground, and the
four-o’clock beverage was spread beneath
a cheery red-and-white-striped marquee.
Lady Somers, wearing a jumper suit in two
shades of green and a harmonising felt hat,
was an enthusiastic onlooker, as the Gover-
nor’s team took part. Keeping her company
were Mrs. E. 11. Davidson and Mrs. Harold
Clapp, the latter in a navy suit trimmed
with touches of beige. Other lookers-on were
the Fairbairn lady, in navy, with bright
blue leaves wreathed about a fawn straw
hat; Mrs, Hunter Patterson, from Deni’.i-
quin; the John Manifolds; and Mr, and Mrs.
Geoffrey Adams, from Camperdown.
'Mrs. Robert Lindsay, who is pausing
here on her way to England from Westralia,
where she has been buying station properties,
was a spectator with her sister Mrs. George
Landale and her daughter Joyce. She was
clad in floral-patterned ninon topped with a
pale grey chinchilla-collared coat, and roses
nestled in her straw hat. Mrs. Fred Thiel s
turnout, was in ruby tones. Mrs. Harry
Creswick, whose navy blue ensemble was
inldt with two hues of pink, had her daughter
Sheila with her. and Grace Black, of Mt.
Nobrat, was another who had a personal in-
terest in the game. Mrs. W. J. T. Clarke,
Jack Lillies, Mrs. Rogers Thomson and
Kathleen, and Nancy Scarlett helped to
swell the crowd.
As was expected, Inverell, captained by
Douglas Munro, took the Stradbroke Cup
back to the sister State. The best team cer-
tainly won, but most players seemed off their
game—maybe the accident to Major Nimmo
on the first day had a disturbing influence.
There were many misdirected shots judging
from the scratches and bruises that decorated
the faces of players at the dance after the tour-
nament. Lady Somers, who wore a rose-
pink hat with her white chiffon frock, handed
over the trophies, and was bidden to quaff
the first sip of champagne from the cup
before it made the round of victors and
vanquished. Moonee Valley B won the
beaten teams’ match, in which Colonel E.
11. Davidson, the Governor’s secretary, was
a contestant. The temperature was some-
what higher than on the other two days, and
filmy frocks were favored by fair on-
lookers, among whom were Mrs. Edmund
Thornley and Mrs. William Bovd. of \\ estern
Districts stations; Mrs. J. O. Robertson,
from Gundagai; Mrs. C. O. Fairbairn; ana
Mrs. Hugh Bullivant, of Blink Bonnie
(N.S.W.).
The Embassy held a full complement of
dancers at two guineas a ticket for the I 010
Ball on Friday night. The first social effort
of the lately-formed Country W omen s Asso-
ciation, this dance will now be an annual
means of raising money for the cause, ihe
Governor and Lady Somers came early and
stayed for the cabaret items provided by
members of the J.C.W. cos. Marie Bremner,
Herbert Browne and Colin - Crane sang,
Herbert Mundin told funny stories, and
Margaret Banncrman, Gerald Kirby and
Mason Wood presented a bright little
sketch, “Wow Wow,” in which the
whole dialogue consisted of words be-
ginning with W. Miss Bannorman dressed
her part in pale blue georgette, with cm-
broidery in crystal and silk and a niatching
Dutch effect in head-dress. The vice-regals
entered heartily into the fun, his Ex. being
much interested in the novelty stall when*
wonderful masks and caps and quaint figures
representing polo players were purveyed.
Lady Somers donned a blue-and-white head-
dress of Red Indian model, which trailed
over-her begonia-red chiffon frock. The Chauve!
lady, president of the ball committee, who was
there with her General, was in pale pink
raiment. Mrs. E. 11. Davidson, ticket sec.,
was draped in powder-blue lace. Duties of
lion. sec. were divided between Mrs. Russel.
Grimwade, in array of cherry-red shot taffeta,
and Mrs? E. Richardson, whose lace frock
was of burgundy hue. Mrs. Harold Clapp,
who organised the cabaret show and ran
tiie dance corepetitions, was an attractive
figure in primrose georgette. Mrs. lan
Currie, of Seven Creeks, a member of the
committee, had a gleam of crystal on her
pink peach gown.
A somewhat close night brought out an
array of flowered ninon lace and georgette,
and very few velvet robes were worn. Mrs.
Philip Russell, of Carngham, was there, in
an old-world frilled frock of pale pink tulle.
Mrs. .Tim Fairbairn, of Mt. Elephant; Mrs.
Neville Fraser, in floral chiffon; and Mrs.
Marring Whiting, in similar covering in
reddish shades, were a well-dressed trio.
Mrs. A. V. HiSkens, who came with
Mr. Hiskcns and Mrs. W. Cox, wore
apparel of wine-colored satin. The English
cricket captain brought Mrs. Chapman, she
in chiffon patterned in black and red. Mr.
and Mrs. Norman Brookes, the Norton Grim-
wades, the Mitchell lady, some Chirnsides
and Winter Irvings and dozens of the youn-
ger set of both town and country mingled
in dance. There was a champagne supper,
and bacon and eggs revived the jazzers in
the small hours.
This is the latest portrait of Mrs. Har-
rington Lees, widow of the Archbishop of
Melbourne,
taken just be-
fore her de-
parture from
Australia. ' It
is difficult to
trace in this
sad face the
happy hr i d e
wli o arrived
to reign at
Bishop’s Court
i n November,
after her mar-
riage in Eng-
land. W i t. h
,T o an Mc-
Lennan, who
was for some
time secretary
to Dr. Lees,
Mrs. Lees is
now on her
way to li e r
parents, Mr.
and Mrs. Herbert Linnell, of Kent. She
is taking back with her her husband’s ashes,
to be placed in the church in which he first
officiated.
The Stanley Hammonds’ coming-out dance
for their second daughter Joyce, which gave
a kick-off to the festivities of Polo week, had
a secondary interest, for the hostess is oft'
to Europe with two of her girls, one of whom
will finish her schooling on the Continent.
Gladioli, delphiniums, tiger-lilies and other
flowers decorated the ballroom, hall and
reception-rooms and the main staircase was
almost hidden beneath balloons. Mrs. Ham-
mond received her guests in a black lace
robe with many points about the ankles. A
trail of onyx and brilliants descended from
the waist-line in front. Debutante Joyce’s
shoulder straps of silver leaves supported a
white tulle frock, the skirt of which was
bunched up in bustle mode. Her elder sister
Clare contrasted peacock-blue satin shoes
with a frock of tangerine tulle. Miss Webb,
a relative of the family, was there in black
satin and lace. Joan Marks, a Sydney visi-
tor, and Betty Shackell looked striking in
pale green chiffon. Mrs. E. Falkiner, Joan
Cliirnside and .Maisie Syme chose reseda
oreen. Joyce Lindsay, just back from Eng-
land. was softly clad in peacli-pink georgette.
Did dc Pledge, a Westralian girl, was in
white, with flounces edged with a glitter of
silver. Rosemary Hayne’s parchment-
colored satin gown swooped down to the
ground at one side, grazing her red-satin
shoes. Mrs. Douglas Faulkner's Frenchy con-
fection was dominated by a large nattier-
blue sash bow that had as its background
blue-flowered lemon taffeta. Mrs. George
Landale, Gladys Tower (in black with silver
spots). Mrs. Sam McCaughey, Mrs. Tom
Grantham, Mrs. George Armstrong and Mrs.
Charles Forrester were among the guests.
A Max Meldnum student is usually known
by his beard and Justus Jorgensen, pic-
tured here by
Lafayette, fol-
lows the fash-
ion. In recent
years he has
been one of
the coterie of
painters whose
studios are in
the Bohemian
quar t e r of
M o ntparnasse
i n P a r i s,
and has been
an exhibitor
at the chief
salons there
and at the
Royal Aca-
demy. Th is
month he is
holding a show
at the Atlie-
namm II a 11.
The subjects
will include landscapes, portraiture and
still-life.
The ball given by Mrs. Hugh Bullivant
and Mrs. Norman Falkiner to introduce to
society their respective daughters, Ruth and
Margery, was one of the social events of
the week. The affair took place at the I* al-
kiner home in South Yarra. An immense
marquee lined with dull gold draperies and
festooned with- colored lights was utilised as
ballroom, the guests passing through draw-
ing-rooms massed with flowers. Mrs. I al-
kiner wore pearls with a black velvet gown
that dipped to the ground in points, and Mrs.
Bullivant’s periwinkle-blue _ draped model
was brocaded at intervals in silver. Both
hostesses held sheafs of rare blooms. Mar-
gery Falkiner, who has inherited her
mother’s good looks, wore a frock of blonde
lace traced with gold thread, and carried a
posy of crimson roses. To her white chiffon
gown, with its girdle of rock crystal, Ruth
Bullivant added a bouquet of orchids. Mrs.
Gordon Chirnside had a length of bracken-
brown mirrior velvet drooping from a
shoulder-strap of brilliants and emeralds.
Mrs. Arthur Bullivant’s gown of black was
patterned with yellow mimosa blossoms and
foliage. General Chauvel was there with his
lady, whose pink attire was speckled with
crystal. Mrs. Charles Kelly, also in pink;
Mrs. lan Currie, of Seven Creeks, and Mrs.
Stanhope Winter Irving were country visi-
tors in town for the polo. Mr. and Mrs.
Harold Brookes, Wing-Commander and Mrs.
Adrian Cole (she in pink scattered with wee
silver sequins) and the Leigh Falkiners
swelled the city contingent. Nancy Falkiner,
in filmy black, and the two schoolgirls, Eliza-
beth and Tempo, in pretty pink frocks,
danced at their sister’s coming-out hop. Pat
Lempriere chose red velvet. Brenda Bow-
man's pale-green frock dangled red flowers,
and .Tess Robertson, from Camperdown, car-
ried a pink posy against flowing white silk
net. Moira Molesworth, who hails from
Bal'lan, wore an uncommon frock of bronze
gold tissue and lace; and Winsome Fenner,
a flaxen-haired miss from Adelaide, was in
black worked in crystal. White satin with
onyx and rhinestone embroidery was V alerie
Purves’s choice; Judy Finch put her faith
in rose-flowered taffeta. Joyce and Clare
Hammond, Marjory Kimpton, who was in
clierry-red satin, Betty Fairbairn and Eliza-
beth Staughton were other dancing maids.
The new master of Queen’s College
(Melb. Uni.), Padre F. Walwyn Kernick,
who succeeds the immensely popular I)r.
Sugden, was introduced to lots of Melbourne
folk at a tea-party given in his honor by
the F. J. Catos at their Hawtlioyn home.
Mrs. Kernick and the recently-arrived prin-
cipal of the Methodist Ladies’ College, Rev.
F. M. Grove, and Mrs. Grove, shared in
the welcome. Greetings to the ladies Were
said with flowers, handed over by the
hostess, whose black gown had touches of
gold. Guests were drawn mostly lroni
educational and ecclesiastical circles Uni.
Chancellor MacFarlane. the Rev. J. H. Cain
and Mrs. Cain, Dr. Sugden and his wife,
and Father Murphy, of Newman College,
were there.
The Percy Berrys, on the eve of another
journey to Europe via America, invited
their many friends to a parting tea-drinking
at Menzies’. The gathering also served as
a farewell to the H. P. T. Berrys and their
son and daughter-in-law, who are taking up
residence in Westralia.
The Edward Wilson Trust having pre-
sented an X-Ray outfit to the new maternity
block at the Queen Victoria Memorial Hos-
pital, there was an opening ceremony last
week, when the Mitchell lady turned a gold
key. Mrs. Norman Brookes, president of
the hospital, welcomed the guests, and Health
Minister Argyle talked learnedly about ray
treatment. Dr. Margaret McLorinan. chief
of the honorary medical staff of the hospital,
and some others tackled the same theme.
The lion, treas., Mrs. H. Fossett, mentioned
that there is £20,000 owing on the new build-
ing, and that the new department costs
£SOOO a year to run. Mayor and Mayoress
Buxton, the Morell and Syme ladies and a
flock of medicoes were among those who
listened to these revelations.
The Voice that Breathed was warbled by
choristers of the Melbourne (Irnmmar School
Chapel for Elsie May Sennitt and Selwyn
Edgar Elder Dye. A Limerick-lace veil of
great antiquity surmounted the bridal robe
of white satin strewn with silver beads. The
three attendant maids wore full petal-frilled
frocks of maize ninon. Mr. and Mrs. .J.
Sennitt, of Caulfield, parents of the bride,
entertained at No. 0 Darling-street.
Nancy Barrett trailed pearl embroidered
white satin and tulle up the aisle of St.
John’s, Toorak, when she wedded Jim, son
of J. A. M. Elder and liis lady. Betty Bar-
rett., Peggy Bruce, Betty Mills and Pauline
Robertson were bridesmaids. Swathed in
pale green lace with water-lilies perched on
millinery to match, and holding armfuls of
pink hollyhocks, the ’maids made a pretty
picture. The bride is the second daughter of
the William Barretts, of Toorak. Rejoicings
took place at “No. 0."
Betty Brewis was handed over in London
by her father, Captain R. W. Brewis, to the
care of Liout.-Commander Cyril Bamford, of
II M.S. Flinders. The bride’s sister Hope
and Doris Bamford were bridesmaids. Mrs.
Brewis entertained the guests.
There was yet another white-and-green
wedding last week—the union on Thursday
of Phyllis, youngest daughter of the Arthur
Robbs', with Byram Cowan. The bride wore
a simple ivory-satin gown with a flared sknt
that dipped at the back, her tulle veil being
anchored to a wreath of lily-of-the-valloy.
Violet Tivey, Lesley Gowan and the bride s
schoolgirl nieces Rosemary and Valeric,
chicks of Colonel and Mrs. Rupert Downes,
were her ’maids. Great bouquets of water-
lilies set off the quartette’s leaf-green chif-
fon frocks and felt hats. There was rejoicing
afterwards at No. 9.
Mrs Harry Emmerton gave a tea party
de luxe at Raveloe on -Friday afternoon as
setting for a farewell presentation to jour-
nalist Blanche Jones. About 100 of the sex
were at the South Yarra mansion, which
is noted for its hospitality. Walter Kirby
and Mr. Beaclicroft, the only two men pre-
sent, sang at intervals, and the hostess, whose
black gown had bordering of white satin with
steel and jet. beads, passed over a suitcase
and a wallet containing a cheque for over
£l5O to the popular lady of the press. Mrs.
J H. Hewison, who had done the secretarial
chores, added that it was the wish of the
givers that the money should be used for a
trip to Scotland and Norway. Tiger-lilies
and pink dahlias were grouped about the
tea-tables.
The same afternoon Mrs. Arthur Wool-
cott collected many of the younger set for
bridge at the Quamby Club as a send-off to
Rita Schalit and Marian Thomas, friends ol
her daughter Francis, and both bound for
England. Navy georgette, a currant-red hat and
an ermine stole were worn by the hostess.
Miss Woolcott’s sapphire-blue jumper suit
was topped by a felt hat that bad a dash
of tourmaline pink.
The good feeling that existed between
social writers and the Morell lady during
her reign as Mayoress was further cemented
on Friday. Wearing ensemble of golden-
liued lace and georgette with a brown hat,
she entertained several press ladies at lun-
cheon at Menzies’. Daughter Sheila, in
cigar-brown frock and mastic-toned, millinery,
was at the big round table, which bad a
central decoration of pink roses, hydrangea
and tiger-lilies. There was a wee posie for
each guest, and the meal was served in
the Oriental room. The hostess took the
opportunity of making the function a fare-
well to Blanche Jones, of the Sun.
Creswick folk gathered from near and far
for their annual reunion, to -welcome back
Jack Graham, who with Dr. Wilson, h >
wife and daughters, has spent the year
abroad, returning via America. The Boyce
brothers, looking younger for their jaunt
overseas, Mr®. Boyce and Mr. and Mrs. («•
Makin were there. An amateur orchestra of
girls played between tea and chatter.
The Governor and Lady Somers will pail
for England shortly, and Colonel and Mrs.
E. H. Davidson will follow in the. next liner
On the return journey the Davidsons will
travel back with the vice-regals.


Clean* as Cftptal
v# /" H E improvement in Crystal Court Dry Gin
over all other existing types has been secured
hy exhaustive research and modern distillation
methods. It is quadruple distilled for purity; is,
as its name implies, w as clear as Crystal,” and has
a unique flavor in which the aromatic elements
are beautifully balanced.
In this gin will be found a spirit of individu-
ality, ideal from both the beverage and medicinal
points of view. We believe that, by sheer merit,
it will win a place in popularity second to none.
k. '
m
>\
lim
Tun
DRY
lal
LEO 6 80 1 'LED
Al DIST)LIERIES_Pg±=
ms
CJV/s /\ rv„r
mm
TZTT'A
m
«r
mm
w 1
v,
a-*-
uuaj
$5
C«.b«H
m
&
$4
mm
&
S/
V
m
n * n nun
3*
4
T.a
i >
i
7/
Him
sm
&
nn
33
/
Crystal Court Dry Gin is now
obtainable at all Hotel bars, Bottle
Departments and Licensed Stores:


Auction Sale.
THE ATTENTION OF
THE SQUATTER AND CITY
' BUSINESS MAN
is especially directed to the Sale of
“CLAREMONT,”
No. 38 WENTWORTH ROAD.
The Most Exclusive Residential
Street in
VAUCLUSE,
VAUCLUSE,
VAUCLUSE.
"CLAREMONT” IS SURROUNDED BY
BEAUTIFUL RESIDENCES, and is
Recognised as one of the FINEST HOMES
in the EASTERN SUBURBS.
ABSOLUTELY in the DRESS-CIRCLE of
WENTWORTH ROAD,
the position is acknowledged as possessing
UNINTERRUPTED PANORAMIC VIEWS UNSUR-
PASSED THE WORLD OVER.
On all sides VIEWS OF THE HARBOR, ITS
SANDY BEACHES and FORESHORES are obtain-
able from “CLAREMONT.”
The Native Flora and the Gum Tree, which abound
here, especially appeal and help to make the situation
of this Horne so delightful.
“CLAREMONT,” A MAGNIFICENT MANSION,
set in extensive a»d beautifully laid-out grounds,
is faultlessly built of brick (roughcast), on
massive stone foundations and roofed with best
purple Bangor slates, and comprises the follow-
ing accommodation: —
GROUND FLOOR: Wide verandahs in front and at
side, SPACIOUS RECEPTION HALL with Ingle,
open brick fireplace, large Bay Window with
built-in Seats, well-proportioned DRAWING-
ROOM, opening into a very fine CONSERVA-
TORY, LIBRARY, DINING-ROOM (with built-
in sideboard of Queensland Maple, also Book-
case), FULL-SIZED BILLIARD-ROOM, wide
cross hall, with tiled lavatory, and cloak room
off, housemaid’s pantry (glass and china cup-
boards built in), tiled kitchen (built-in dresser),
storeroom, laundry, maid’s sitting-room, two
maids’ bedrooms and bathroom, tradesmen’s
porch and boxroom.
FIRST FLOOR: Approached by a Magnificent Stair-
case, contains wide LOUNGE HALL, FIRST
BEDROOM with dressing-room, tiled bathroom
and lavatory en suite, four other large bed-
rooms, with built-in hanging cupboards, second
bathroom (tiled), linen room, sewing and box
rooms.
SPECIAL SLEEPING-OUT BALCONIES AT FRONT
and REAR.
UNINTERRUPTED VIEWS are OBTAINABLE from
EVERY ROOM,
and the design is most conveniently arranged.
THE WOODWORK, OF POLISHED QUEENSLAND
MAPLE, and the fittings and finish throughout
are of the highest quality.
THE GROUNDS are a SPECIAL FEATURE, and are
beautifully laid out in garden, lawns; FULL-
SIZED TENNIS COURT, Fernery, etc.
Attractively designed MOTOR GARAGE to House Two
Cars, with wide verandah, overlooking Tennis
Court.
THE LAND has a curved frontage of
258 ft. sin. to Wentworth Road, by a depth of
190 ft. 4in. on one side,
176 ft. on the other side, and an irregular rear
line of 272 ft. llfin.
The TITLE IS TORRENS.
TO BE OFFERED FIRST AS A WHOLE.
If not sold,
THEN IN TW'O LOTS,
FIRSTLY, THE RESIDENCE ON LAND having a
frontage of about 127 ft.,
then
THE VACANT LAND, having a frontage of about
131 ft., with Garage thereon.
Plans on view in the Rooms.
RICHARDSON & WRENCH, LTD., will
1 offer the above MAGNIFICENT
PROPERTY to Public Auction, in the
Rooms, 92 PITT STREET, on FRIDAY,
15th MARCH, at 11 A.M. (No. Ill)
w
In Days of Old
White hair was
all the vogue.
In modern days
grey or white
hair is consid-
ered a sign of
appr o a c h i n g
age.
It is NOT “THE
THING.”
All traces of Grey can readily be removed
by an application of
Dr. Allen’s (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
Sold at all Chemists and Stores.
Harmless, easy
to apply, can-
not be detected
Australian Agents:
DUERDIN AND
SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street,
Melbourne.
ŵ
■?A
KM
V-
V
11
B
NOTHING TO PAY*
/F IT FAILS!
THE sensational discovery of modem times is that certain special substances combined with yeast will
produce the magic change from weakness and Ul-health to Glowing Youth and Vigor with
rapidity—in some cases in a few hours. This same health-combination will relieve aches, pains and
depression almost instantly, giving an immediate feeling of fresh, re-vitalised exhilaration! The discovery hai
produced numerous “patent” yeast and yeast-vitamine tonics; but none of these can compare in any way to
genuine “Cream of Yeast,” which is undoubtedly the greatest tonic pick-me-up and revitaliser known.
The Results are Startling!
CREAM OF YEAST—
Relieves Headaches and Neuralgia in 4
minutes.
Relieves Influenza, Colds, Rheumatism,
etc., within 15 hours.
Glorious New Health!
It has been proven that the brain, nerves and
blood need certain vital substances.
These substances, combined with vitamines,
form the foundation of Health ail'd Strength
—even of Life itself! Without this com-
bination, perfect health is impossible! Yeast
contains an element of amazing restorative
and life-giving power— but certain types of
yeast are almost useless! The value of the
right kind of yeast, in combination with other
svibstanccs, is clearly shown by “Cream of
Yeast.” See, when you take it, aches and
pains vanish ; watch sickness disappear; see
how quickly the nerves become steady; how,
instead of being always weak and tired out,
you regain* splendid zest, vitality and youth-
ful vim and good looks!
Regulates, Invigorates!
“Cream of Yeast” is the result
of patient experimenting in the
laboratories of the greatest
chemical organisation in the
world manufacturing any form
of yeast-vitamine tonic. Be-
fore achieving its great triumph
with “Cream of Yeast ” this
Relieves Acidity, Sour Stomach and Indi
gestion in 3 minutes.
Gives marked increase of Forceful Vigor
in 15 minutes.
Relieves Depression and Brain Fag in 8
minutes.
organisation actually made millions of ycast-
vitaminc tablets! News of the amazing
“Cream of Yeast” success made others offer
hastily-contrived brands of yeast. Tests show
that not one of these brands equals “Cream
of Yeast.”
“Cream of Yeast” is the concentrated yeast-
vitamine tonic; it gives the best and quick-
est results, and is safe! “Cream of Yeast’
invigorates and regulates. It makes aspirin-
mixtures, purgatives and stimulants old-
fashioned in its prompt, sure action in
relieving aches, pains and irregularities. It
forms no habit! IT IS SUPREMELY
HEALTHFUL.
Immediate Results
No matter what your sickness may be, how
long you’ve suffered, or how much faith you
have in other remedies, try “Cream of Yeast”
Cream * Yeast
FOR YOUTH!
24 Tablets, 1/11; 48 Tablets, 3/6; 125 Tablets, 5/9 —all Chemist’s.
Clears System of harmful poisonous wastes
in 12 hours.
Relieves Periodical Pains in 12 minutes.
Steadies Nerves in 10 minutes.
Clears Boils, Pimples and Eruptions
usually within 2 days.
just once! Better results are definitely
guaranteed, and if you fail to get them the
trial will cost you nothing.
A Firm Guarantee of Quick
Benefit or Money Back!
You don’t risk a penny trying “Cream of
Yeast”! It will give you brighter eyes, rosier
cheeks, clearer complexion, more restful
sleep, a firm, elastic step, the fresh, lively
spirit of Youth. It will free, you from head-
aches, stomach troubles, rheumatic pains ana
the results of faulty elimination. It will
make you a NEW man or woman.
Simplv get a bottle of “Cream of Yeast”
tablets' from the nearest chemist or store.
Take according to the clear, easy directions,
and if you don’t feel rejuvenated in mind
and body—if not perfectly satis-
fied—the price will be refunded
on application to the Amalga-
mated Laboratories, Dept. Z ,
Kembla Building, Sydney. Thus
you arc positively guaranteed
new health and happiness—or
no cost at all.
YOUR NEXT PARTY, PICNIC,
| | OR SUPPER INTRODUCE
c, f*< r
CAPTAIN CRAB
. > -
AND SEE THE SMILING WELCOME
HE RECEIVES
1881
rp» ruirrMSi* fakticuuahs ask you* amo&tm
. rOX SSClft-KOOK ' ■
X
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT!
POINT PIPER
WOOLLAHRA HOUSE
WOOLLAHRA HOUSE
POINT PIPER
IN SUBDIVISION
THIS HISTORIC ESTATE,
OCCUPYING ONE OF THE MOST DELIGHTFUL POSITIONS ON THE
HARBOR,
is specially designed to meet the requirements of gentlemen desirous of
acquiring Home Sites of Liberal Dimensions, ensuring privacy and a
Permanent View.
THE ESTATE IS APPROACHED BY WUNULLA ROAD,
a few minutes from New South Head and Cranbrook School Stop, is the
Centre of many of Sydney’s Principal Homes, near the Prince Edward Yacht
Club, and has the advantage of a Beautiful Sandy Beach (Lady Martin s)
along the Water Front.
A Brochure will shortly issue showing full particulars and views from the Estate.
THE TITLE IS TORRENS. - - - EASY TERMS WILL BE GIVEN.
NOTE DAY OF AUCTION SALE ON THE GROUND:
SATURDAY, MARCH 16, AT 3 P.M.
Full Particulars will appear in the advertising columns of the Daily Press.
RICHARDSON & WRENCH, LTD.
92 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, AUCTIONEERS.
ẃ


Aristocracy
in chinaware
/C? iNTOUCHED by the
brush,confident
in its own beauty of form and
modelling, the Shelley China
distinguished as “Dainty
White” has a still higher
claim to aristocratic, indeed
royal, rank. The brilliant
purity of the white body —
English Bone China of
Shelley grade—would make
any less noble ware look
dingy beside it.
v,„.
Ask to sec the latest
SHELLEY
Nursery Ware
by Lucie Attweu
6-Hiida Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
Tea
Sets -
Coffee Sets
Morning Sets
Dainty white
China
m
RIFLES AND AMMUNITION
Remington Clearing Stocks.
Write for particulars.
J. P. KNIGHT, 361 Pitt Street, Sydney
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals r ith every subject of
interest to women.
Amusements.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HE It MAJESTY’S : HIT THE DECK.
ROYAL: THE WRECKER.
CRITERION: THE PATSY.
PALACE: WHITE COLLARS.
(Commencing Saturday.)
W ORLD ’S GREATEST WOMAN
VIOLINIST,
ERICA MORINI
ERICA MORINI
ERICA MORINI
The wonderful Viennese genius.
“It is no idle claim that she is the greatest
living woman violinist.” —London Daily Sketch.
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Direction E. J. CAItUOLL.
SATURDAY, MARCH 30; also APRIL 1, 0 and 9.
Plans at Nicholsons, 410-418 George Street, Sydney.
{RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
HTH EATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
1 ’ SHOWING NIGHTLY.
A NEW SHOW EVERY WEEK.
NELLIE BRAMLEY
COMPANY present
The highest class of play obtainable, at popular
prices.
The ltoyale Syncopators Chase Gloom
from Dull Intervals.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
* MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S: THE DESERT SONG.
ROYAL:
MARGARET BANNERMAN in
THE MARIONETTES.
IHEW COMEDY THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
RUTH NUGENT and ALLAN BUNCE in
PIGS. _____
ING ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LEON GORDON in
THE FLYING SQUAD.
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
“ MELBOURNE.
THE RED MARK
With GASTON GLASS.
ALSO
THE CONSTANT NYMPH
With IVOR NOVELLO.
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co. Ltd.
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCE.
THE BUSINESS OF THE ABOVE COMPANY HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED
TO THE NEW HEAD OFFICE.
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
For vacant Suites and Sing'e Offices at above address apply to Secretary
(Telephone BW128I.)
KELSO KING,
Managing Director.
Timber Workers’ Strike.
TO THE PUBLIC OF NEW SOUTH WALES
The issues in this strike are simple but of outstanding importance. They are: —
1. The open defiance of an Inditstrial Award of the Federal Arbitration Court
—which Court was selected by the T*Tnion and embraced by it on every other
occasion for. the past ten years.
2. The hour question was decided not by one Judge but by the Full Arbitration
Court.
3. One half of the Union has for the past six years always worked 4S hours, and
is still prepared to do so. It is vitally important to note that even if the
Employers accepted the Union terms to-day the whole of the bush sawmills and
the log band sawmills in the cities would be on the basis of 48 hours.
4. The Union’s attitude is “Heads I win and tails you lose,” as is evidenced by
the fact that when the Court on a previous occasion granted retrospective
pay totalling over £lOO,OOO it accepted with alacrity.
5. The Employers are obeying the law of the land, whilst the Union defies the
law, abuses the Judges, and usurps to itself the right to picket the yards,
intimidate law-abiding workers, use mob rule and violence to men seeking to
obey the laws of the country.
Do you stand for our Democratic Institutions or the Autocracy of the Reds
and Goulburn Street?
Authorised by
THE SYDNEY AND SUBURBAN TIMBER MERCHANTS’ ASSOCIATION.
F. H. CORKE,
Secretary.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
The Little Sisters
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
His Ex. and Margaret O’Grady have been
rusticating for a fortnight. While in Queens-
town they were the guests of the Murrays,
who did the honors of the big mine and the
small town.
The Victoria League Ball in Launceston’s
Cup week was a very successful shivoo. The
O’Gradys were there with the Eardley Wil-
mots in attendance. Miss O’Grady wore a
long frock of white georgette, with a cape
affair drooping down the back. The northern
and western districts were well represented,
with a good sprinkling from the south.
Thirty-three maidens and one matron, with
Joyce Crawford and Mary Nieholls doing
the secrotarying, were responsible for one
of the liveliest dances of the season at the
Continental recently. Some picturesque frocks
were worn, one or two being of the new
simulated bustle variety, which look better
than they sound. Rear-Admiral Hyde and
a very big contingent of officers from the Aus-
tralia, Anzac and Swordsman, with their
wives, swelled the throng.
The un-grown-ups’ dance in aid of the Child
Welfare Association has became an annual
affair. The C.J.’s lady (president), Cicely
Shoobridge (sec.) and a big committee
worked solidly for its success, and got it.
The home-made supper, always a feature of
these shows, was as good as ever.
Hobart folk are welcoming Rear-Admiral
Hyde’s dark-eyed bride. On the day of the
wedding, which took place in Sydney, the
Australia sported a bridal wreath.
Mrs. D’Arcy Addison with her big son
Alec Downer was last heard of as enjoying
the winter sports in Switzerland. On the
return of the young man to his studies Mrs.
Addison and Mrs. Charles Davis intended to
sojourn at Nice for a while,
Mrs. Fyrie Watt and little daughter
Pamela are paying their usual summer visit
to the Speck, and staying with Mrs. Spencer
Parsons, Wincauton, Huon.
Alan Cameron and his bride have returned
from their honeymoon and are settled in at
Mona Vale.
A recently-announced engagement is that
of Scot Nettlefold, third son of the A. J.
Nettlefolds of this city, to Lulla, onlv
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Thos. Carter,
Manchester, England.
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Sir John Goodwin officially opened the
new pavilion of the Auchenflower Bowling
Club. Gay bunting, with flags and foliage
in the club house, decorated the lawn. Presi-
dent A. Powell and his wife met the guests
at the entrance, which was enclosed with
big flags and trails of asparagus fern. Mrs.
Powell was in grey crepe .de Chine with
apricot hat. Bowls of roses, African daisies
and zinnias were on the long tables set in
the club-house, where tea was served. Pink
and red roses dressed the Governor’s table.
A band played, and the greens, refreshed by
recent heavy showers, lived up to their name.
Audrey Anderson, pictured here, is one of
the most promising of our young pianists.
She studied
under Wini-
fred Burston
at Syd n e y
Uni. Con. for
thre'e years,
having previ-
ously won an
exhibition for
the Senior
Div i s ion of
Trinity Col-
lege at the
age of 10.
and the gold
medal for the
advanced
grade of the
R.A.M. at the
age of 12.
While in Syd-
ney she gained
the L.A.B.
and the Con.'s
teacher’s dip-
loma. The Ormonde takes the pretty lass
to the Cold Country to continue her studies.
In her honor Mr. and Mrs. F. C. Bennett
arranged a bridge evening at Canoona,
Greenslopes, amid crimson and pink roses.
Miss Anderson wore ivory crepe de Chine
with touches of black, and Mrs. Bennett’s
draped apricot’ mariette was finished with
gold. Among the guests were the A. B.
Andersons, the Keith Bennetts (Too-
woomba), the Roy Gills, Mrs Heaslop, Mrs.
Waters, Helen Elkington, Leila Langberg
and Hilda Heaslop.
.T. F. Maxwell presented the regatta tro-
phies won by Toowong Rowing Club, in the
Masonic Hall at Toowong. The T. A. Daw-
bers arranged the party and received the
guests, Mrs. Dawber wearing blue chenille
georgette. There was card-playing and a
musical programme.
Mrs. Jack Cain had a dinner at Lennon’s
for daughter Maisie, who was on the eve of
departure with her husband, E. F. Powers,
for U.S.A. A horseshoe table was girt with
roses, and at each end stood a basket of
tropic fruits swathed with American and
Australian flags. Betwixt these stretched a
miniature wireless aerial, and in the curve
of the horseshoe was the model of a liner
lit with emerald and ruby lights. Amongst
the roses gleamed fairy lights.
A social was arranged by the president,
S. J. Hull, and members of the committee
to celebrate the opening of the extension to
the Graceville bowlers’ club-house. Flags
decorated, and there was a concert and
dancing. The president introduced the
patron of the club. Dr. W. N. Robertson,
who presented trophies won during the sea-
son. Mrs. Hull wore jet mariette.
Mrs. Elizabeth Jones, an Ipswich district
pioneer, has died at the age of 87. She was
born in Cambridgeshire, England. In ’66 she
married Alfred Seymour, and they came to
Australia on honeymoon in the ship Nether-
Icy. They were shipwrecked on King Island,
Bass Strait, and lost all their wedding pre-
sents and clothing. For ten days they were
on the island waiting for a relief ship from
Melbourne. Mr. Seymour was one of the
volunteers who swam dhily to the wreck for
provisions. Over 50 years ago the Seymours
bought Stradbroke farm, where Mrs. Seymour
remained for the rest of her days, remarrying
after her husband’s death in ’7B. She left
seven children. 21 grandchildren and two
great-grandchildren.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Here’s a lady who has not learned to
shear, but who can clip a piece of jumbuck’s
covering off his back with nail-scissors and
turn it out as Digger’s socks in a day or
two. She is Mrs. M. E. Southern, who re-
introduced hand-spinning in the early days
of the war.
When o u r
shops ran
short of knit-
ting-wool Mrs.
Southern dis-
covered a lady
who had lived
in Norway
and was ac-
quainted with
the works of
the spinning
wheel. The
two of them,
with the help
of a carpenter,
evolved a
crude imple-
ment on which
Mrs Southern
taught herself
to spin. When
more perfect
wheels were
made the A.M.P. Society save the lower floor
of its building to the Spinning Association,
where every day for five years Mrs, Southern
and her helpers gave gratis instruction to
eager learners. Mrs. Southern visited the
Fremantle wool stores, picked her bales and
learnt something about classing, scouring
and dyeing. She is now manager of the
-ts and Crafts Society and secretary of the
W. A. Society of Artists. Helen Ogden made
the picture.
A spattering of raindrops, choppy waves
on an inky-black river and a wind like a
whistle gave an off-hand welcome to swim-
mers and their pals who met at Claremont
baths on the night of the national swimming
championships. The rows of benches were
commandeered by early-comers, and tardy
ones dangled their legs over the platforms or
perched on the roofs of the bathing-boxes.
W.A. annexed the diving championship.
There was warm sunshine and merry blue
water for the second swimming carnival.
High-diving from the brand-new steel tower
was an attractive feature, and Miss I). B.
Oliver beat the other mermaids over 440
yards.
Lieut.-Governor McMillan turned a gold
key in the main door of the new Government
home for mental and nervous cases. The
institution is to be known as Heathcote, and
commands a beautiful view of the Swan
between Applecross and Canning Bridge.
There were speeches, and tea was served
in the spacious lounge.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Bridge at the R. L. Butlers’ was one of
farewells for Audrey Homburg and Miss
Leitch, who are booked for overseas —the
former via America and the latter by the
Maloja. For Miss Homburg there was also
bridge at the Ritchies’. Guests at both
parties were mostly of the younger set. The
Charles Haywards leave in March, as do
Penelope Wood, Maude Puddy and the
Dudley Turners. Violet Turner, of Maori-
land, joins the Turners here, and goes with
them.
Victor Harbor staged a Girl Guides’ fete
in time to catch the last of the summer
visitors. Dr. Douglas’s eldest daughter runs
the local company, and an excellent one it
is. Mrs. O’Leary, Mrs. Fox, Mrs. P. R.
Cudmore and Miss Hodge "were among those
who lent a hand.
Mrs. Warnes will be one of the South
Australian representatives at the National
Council of Women conference in London.
Her Queensland colleague, Mrs. Fairfax, will
speak to National Councillors here as she
passes through on the aims of the Country
Women’s Association.
From Nice comes news of the sudden death
of W. A. Tennant, who left at the end of
the year with his wife on a trip to England
and Continental Europe. He was the eldest
son of the late Andrew Tennant, of Glenelg,
and fought in the Boer War.
Thieves poking about in the motor-cars left
outside a house in Toorak where bridge was
afoot happened upon a suit-case containing
£5OO worth of jewellery. Its owners, the
E. E. Jollys (she’s a daughter of Penfold
Hyland), remembered it before their game
was over and came out to take it in, but
the thieves had got away with the loot.
There is a £2OO reward for the missing
trinkets.
There has been a farewell concert for
Elsie Wooley. Irene Kemp, Harold Par-
sons, Hilda Hammond and Thelma Baulder-
stone figured on the programme, and Miss
Wooley sang the Bach-Gounod “Ave Marie”
and Landon Ronald’s “Remembrance.”
There will be a host of old friends to wel-
come the Rev. L. T. Maund, here on holiday
from his parish in Bayswatei’, London. He
was a chaplain with the A.I.F. during the
war, and before that had made himself
known and loved in a good many parishes
in this State.


<7
t
\
>
Tyres of Strength
Goodyear Tyres have these
superior qualities
♦
Long Wear
Traction
Safety
Beauty
Vitality
Slow Tread Wear
EVERYONE of these desirable
i. advantages traces directly
to the two main parts of a tyre
—the tread and the body. In
both these main parts Goodyear
Tyres are definitely superior.
w


K5l
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
SffiHi
1 austrauan
|SM
r ' w to^SS^-^— V-
v ’ v **. :
-ySJ^Si^^rr 4 '
<^t;A ? v>cZrV'
6 •--
AND SOLD
EVERYWHERE
IN AUSTRALIA
NO RIND—NO WASTE—
ABSOLUTELY HYGIENIC.
Sold in %lb. Cartons, as illustrated, and by weight by all Grocers.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager— M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
NOT TOO CLEVER.
BY-MARGARET FANE AND HILARY LOFTING.
OLD Tom Adam, sitting on the gpsbox
of his Palmer-street boarding-house
(18s. 6d. and soft washing done), saw
Marty going by with a basket of groceries
on his arm.
“ ’Morning, Tom,” Marty called out. “How
are you this morning?”
“Not too clever, Marty,” old Tom told him.
“Not too clever this morning.”
And that was right, too. He hadn’t been
too clever for years. And well the ’Loo
knew it. Some people were all right. Marty,
for instance. Marty was a nice chap, well
known and well liked in the ’Loo. He did
himself a bit o’ good when he married Mary
Laurie, down in Brazier-street —looked 10
years younger, he did. And well he might,
with a fine woman like Mary to look after
him. Trips into the country for week-ends,
old Tom wouldn’t wonder ; a day at the beach
here and there, and what not. And a com-
fortable home and a bit of a chat in the
evenings.
Old Tom’s persistently-aggrieved eyes
looked down. Palmer-street; a good long time,
now, since he first sat on this gasbox and
looked down this street. Ah well, he wasn’t
one of the lucky ones, what with his poor
health and one thing and another. He
hadn't got a strong, handsome wife and a
snug little business. Things just seemed to
drop into some people’s hands, they did;
that was all you could call it. But—a gleam
shone fugitively in old Tom’s eyes—the ’Loo
didn’t know everything. They’d be pretty
surprised next month when they saw old
Tom going away for his holiday.
Ten years—the first time he’d been out of
the ’Loo for ten mortal years. But he could
do it at last. Not but what it had taken
a bit of doing. You had to pinch pretty
close on a pension of 255. a week to put by
enough for a holiday out of it; and he
wasn’t one to do a thing unless you could
do it properly, either. A new shirt and a
necktie, and stay at a good-class boarding-
house—3ss. at the least; maybe £2.
The gleam came back as he glanced out
into Palmer-street again. Next month he
could turn his back on that for two weeks
and see all the sights and a bit of a train-
ride and everything. And then have a bit
over at the end. He sighed comfortably,
leaning back against the wall. He wouldn’t
go short on tobacco for that fortnight; and
if a friend was to ask him up the street,
well, he’d go up, and pay his whack when
Ins turn came. Not a pauper, he wasn’t,
whatever the ’Loo might think. The ’Loo
didn’t know everything.
\ ery tempted he’d been to go last summer.
It was a cruel, hot summer—fair burned
your eyes out here in the ’Loo. But it would
have meant cutting it too near the bone;
so he’d waited till this year. And next
month ’d see him off.
. He must make the most of it, he admon-
ished himself. It would be a long time
before he’d see another holiday. But he
wasn’t as bad off as some—that poor old
c °w Moonier next_ door, for instance. He
could do with a bit of a change, if ever a
man could. There was a man he was real
sorry for. Dog’s life he had.
Of course, there was the boy, young Guy,
that he thought so much of and that thought
80 much of him. But that niece-in-law, or
whatever she was—that Mrs. Wales that
kept the laundry Well, look, he’d cut
ms throat if he had to live with her. What
with him being French and too much of a
gentleman, as you might say, to stand up to
her, and her being a proper bully—well, his
life couldn’t be worth living.
That was the way you had to look at it.
Compared with Marty, perhaps he, old Tom,
wasn t one of the lucky ones, in having to
save and pinch for his bit of a holiday. But
compared with that old Frenchy, to be able
to look forward to one quiet day was a
bit o’ luck.
T om filled his second pipe
or the day. You could always work a thing
out if you put your mind to it. And there
was Palmer-street that he’d sat and looked
at every day for ten years and known for a
good many more years than that. When he
came back from his holiday it would be just
the same, and he’d sit here on the gasbox
and pass the time of day with the neighbors.
Just the same. Ah, but he’d have his holi-
day between now and then—a fortnight of
not looking at both sides of a penny, of
Tom looked up. A sort of rumbling and
the sound of a screaming voice came from
next door. The door flew open and Mrs.
' stormed out, her face black with fury.
Righto, Moonier,” she yelled back into the
open doorway, “you’ve done it now, puttin’
yer spoke in. I don’t care if ’e’s yer grand-
son forty times over. Out he goes. And he
goes where I say he goes. Me stuffin’ good
meals into a lot o’ cadgers and dead-beats.
Who d’yer think you are?”
The last sentence was shot into the hall
as a violent invitation to reply, but only a
still silence followed it. Presently she pulled
the door to with such a bang that old Tom
jumped on his gasbox and peered wonder-
ingly at her massive figure storming up the
street.
Tlicre’d been a row. And something in the
quality of the shocked and breathless silence
that held now the laundry next door told
him that it had been no ordinary row. Mrs.
Quirk looking round the door-frame to tell
him that dinner was. ready was quite a
relief, Tom. felt; he followed her gratefully,
after standing his pipe up on the window-
sill and glancing once more at the stilled
house next door. That had been a hell of a
row, lie wouldn’t wonder; perhaps the poor
old bloke had fainted or something.
It got on his nerves a bit; and when he
saw young Guy in tin; next-door yard after
dinner he mentioned it. Besides, the lad
looked real miserable and down-hearted.
“Bit of a row at your place before dinner?”
Guy looked up, his white face wondering
what business it was of old Tom Adam’s;
but he was too down-hearted to be himself.
“Yairs,” She said.
“‘Non, Monsieur!’ he cried. ‘Jamais—jamais! It cannot he done!’”
“How’s yer grandfather?”
“All right.”
Tom waited. It was no good being silly,
and it’d do the lad good to get it off his
chest.
Guy bit his lip and looked back at the
laundry. “It’s aunt,” he" said. “She’s sendin’
me up to Allerton, to the foundry there. Her
brother’s one of the foremen, an’ ’e’s got a
job for me.”
“And you don’t want to go?”
Guy’s horrified eyes came round to old
Tom. “What, and leave Granno to that
lot?” The eyes snapped. “He’d be dead in
a week. And glad of it.”
Tom considered this for a moment. “Why,
but you've got to go to work, Guy,” he sug-
gested at last.
“I know that. But it needn’t be in a
foundry with one of ’er lot to boss me, need
it? And no chance to give an eye to Granno.”
Tom considered this, too. “What do you
want to work at?” he asked.
“A farm —something up country, where I
could knock up a bit of a humpy and have
the old man with me.” Guy paused and
bit his lip again. “Yer can easy get a hit
of a place like that in the country; Ed
Slater told me when ’e was down. Me an’
Granno ’ave often talked about it.” His
voice fell a tone. “We was goin’ to do it,”
he added.
“Well, why don’t you do it now? Why
don't you clear out and have a sltot at it?”
“Broke,” Guy told him.
That seemed to block the idea finally.
Tom’s resentful eyes looked back at the dusty
houses and round him at the dusty yard.
That’s how it was: if you did get an idea
there was always something to kill it. Here
was that poor old cow old Moonier, 75 if he
was a day, and young Guy, this lad here,
his grandson—wrapped up in each other, as
you might say—been talking over and look-
ing forward to something for years, maybe.
And nothing much—a bit of a shack in the
country and the chance of a quiet spell
while the lad worked. And because they
were broke that demon of a woman could
come in and kick it to pieces. Make ’em
both down-hearted, and probably kill the
old Frenchy. That’s what it was to be real
broke, that was.
“This Ed Slater, that friend o’ yours—
couldn’t he help you out of it? Pick up a
job for you or something?”
“Got a job for me any time —Ed said so
when ’e was down. That’s what me an’
Granno been workin’ on.”
“Well?”
“Outside Junee —four quids’ worth of fares
for the two of us, for a start. Besides, she’s
sendin’ me to Allerton to-morrow.”
That did block it. There wasn’t even time
to get a letter off.
“She’ll kill ’im—that’ll be the end of it.
She pinches his pound-a-week, gives ’im dud
tucker, and roars ’im up all day long.” Guy
was getting it off liis chest while old Tom
glared at the back yards and the broken
fences of the ’Loo. “’E doesn’t ’ave a
dog’s life when I’m not there. And not much
more when I am. If it wasn’t for the tray-
bits the customers give ’im for bringin’ the
laundry—look, yer couldn’t say he was alive,
yer couldn’t. An’ that swine,” Guy’s voice
seemed to snap, “to save me keep, can pack
me 0ff.... Look, when Granno tried to stop
it this morning you’d ’a’ thought she was
goin’ to tear ’im in ’alves. An’ I ain’t even
got the fares to get ’im out of it”
Guy’s voice and spirit gave in at the same
moment, and lie turned his back on Tom and
ran down the yard to the laundry.
For a part of the afternoon old Tom sat
rigid on his gasbox.
This wasn’t right. There was no sense
in it, as you might say. Here was he going
off for his holiday next month with his
pockets full of money; and there was Guy
and his Granno, as he called him, next door,
ill done in for want of a bit of money. And
properly done in. Permanent. Not like
losing your holiday, for instance. Tom stared
savagely at the street he knew so well,
steadily sucking at the mouthpiece of his
empty pipe.
Once a faint gleam shone in his eyes, a
gleam almost of laughter, it seemed.' It died,
and he continued his abortive enjoyment of
the pipe and the street. But it came again;
to die again. Finally it came to stay. For
a space Tom remained rigid on his gasbox.
Presently he stood up with purposeful delib-
eration, tapped out his empty pipe on the
window-sill and went indoors.
He went upstairs to his little room over
the scullery and from the back of the top
long drawer of the combination he took a
pocket-book. He looked at this for a moment
before; he put it in liis pocket. That done,
he walked over to the window; the set of
his shoulders seemed to suggest that the
purpose in hij mind was flagging a little.
From the window the sloping roof of the
wash-house ran, grey and dusty, to the gut-
tering. Next door, when Guy had gone to
Allerton, old Moonier, whose room was also
the little cubby over the scullery, like this,
would look out on a bit of grey roof, like
this, every morning yhen he got up. He’d
know that he was going to be roused on all
day, that he’d have a dog’s life until he
came back tired out to this bit of a room
again to sleep. The flagging purpose seemed
to revive in old Tom’s shoulders as he
squared them as well as he could, and walked
out of the room and downstairs again.
In the next-door back-yard he saw" old
Moonier shuffling listlessly up and down.
“Mr. Moonier!” he called softly over the
fence.
Monsieur Adolphe Guy Meunier looked up,
his faded eyes troubled but polite. “Mon-
sieur Adam!” he said gravely. “Good day.”
Old Tom beckoned, liis eyes firm and
steady. “Where’s she?” he asked, when old
Moonier had reached the fence.
“Madame? Madame is out.”
“And where’s Guy?”
“He. works, perhaps a ’alf-hour, perhaps a
hour yet. In the laundry.”
“Good.” Tom beckoned old Moonier to
come still closer and chuckled. Portentously
he began to whisper in old Moonier’s ear.
For a space he continued this whispering,
the gleam of adventure lighting his firm eyes
every now and then.
“What time do you go to bed?” he asked.
Moonier’s frail shoulders shrugged. “Per-
haps perhaps a little later.”
“Make it a bit earlier. The night mail
goes at”.... Tom continued his whispering,
Moonier’s face growing more and more bewil-,.
deredl At one point, the full story clear at
last, Moonier stood suddenly upright, his
eyes bright w r ith indignation.
“Non, Monsieur!” he cried. “Jamais—
jamais. It cannot be done!”
“Look,” Tom put his hand on his arm,
“don’t yell like that. It was for my holiday.
I don’t want it; it’s a bit extra, as you might
say. I was thinking of putting my holiday
off, anyhow. And Guy can pay me back
bit by bit. There’s the two fares to Junee
(Concluded on page 53.)


PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emcra:ds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
FOR ALL SPORT
BUY
THE SPORTING GLOBE
The Leading Australian Authority with the largest
staff of Sporting Experts and Special Representatives
in all States. The staff , includes: —
“MUSKET” The Turf
“BAIL” Cricket
W. S. SHARLAND Football
PAT O’HARA WOOD Tennis
J. J. MAHER Cycling
J. M. DILLON Golf
A. L. DOBBIE Rowing
TOM MORLEY Coursing
MAURIE COLLINS Bowls
H. C. BROOKE Yachting
New South Wales edition available—
every Thursday, price 3d.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain anti Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/-per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
MADE
BRITISH
Perfection
PIT'S K. RUBBER
BALD OR GREY HEADS
OFTEN MEAN FAILURE
Many a woman has lost her charm and many a
man his job and popularity through a grey or bald
head! Don’t let the world say you’re getting old
—'keep young! Get rid of your grey hairs this easy
way: Get a package of Vi-Glo from the chemist and
rub into the scalp. Vi-Glo contains a new ingredient
that wakes up the color and growth cells and quickly
brings back young, abundant hair. The cost is only
3/-, including a special shampoo—very little to
stand between vou and popularity. If no chemist
near, send 3 Ji to Vi-Glorient Co., Kembla Building,
Sydney, and complete outfit with instructions will
reach you by post. Satisfaction guaranteed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
'HmViik 4 ?
ONARCH
IxCigai's
I CRAIGkAITKEN
Wholesale Distributors
■ v Sydney NSW.
“THE AGE”
Established 185ly.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“The Age" is a household publication whose
subscribers welcome its receipt, depending upon
its news columns for the accurate information
which day by day covers the broadest possible
survey of the world’s happenings, and upon
its advertising columns to bring to their atten-
tion that which is required in their home or
business life.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER.
You will find “The Age’’ a congenial newspaper,
with an atmosphere of individual and personal
appeal.
Price per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free
within the Commonwealth.
“THE AGE” FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes Over 1,000,000 Advertise-
ments Annually.
Advertising rates on application to the principal
advertising Service Agents in all States or—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
ẁ
GRASP THE SHADOW ERE THE SUBSTANCE FADE
PIECE ME TOGETHER AND YOUR FORTUNE’S MADE.
TALE OF A LUCKY BLACK CAT—In Many Parts—Part One
Behold me. King of the Luck Bringers! Mind
you, I’m not an ordinary Tom Cat that stays
out all night, so my scattered parts cannot be
attributed to the careful aim of
citizen resenting a courtship with Tabby on
the Tiles. Among my family inheritance is
a trick of being able to pull myself to pieces
at a moment’s notice, without disturbing my
genius for luck-bringing. Indeed, the
who can put me together again has all tnc
luck. I have specially offered my services to
the N.S.W. Fire Brigades Art Union to test the
skill of the good people to whom I have
brought fortune and good luck for several
' There Is money in this. In fact, there Is a
fortune. All you have to do is to piece me
together so as to form a complete picture.
First send an application and e n® ,oBe .
for a book of 6 tickets. This book
of tickets will be sent to you, together
with a leaflet containing my scattered parts,
looking just like the parts that appear in
this advertisement. You can sell or keep the
book of tickets, making a shilling on tbe
transaction. Or you can sell five and keep
one. The tickets are for the N.S.W. Fire
Brigades Art Union for £lO,OOO in prizes, the
first prize being a Solid Gold Helmet valued
at £3OOO. the largest prize for a shilling ever
offered in Australia. You may win this.
Now comes your next piece of good fortune.
There will be a special distribution of £5O in
prizes among those who send back the Incj'J'
black cat pieced together correctly. The
amount will be distributed among those who
give the correct solution —First Prize £*.>,
Second Prize £lO, Third Prize £2. three
consolation prizes of £l, ten consolation
T , »r. r • . f p prize* of 10/, and 20 consolation prizes of
The Nine Lwet of a v,al in Lj l teces p l s yours for the glad hand.
Register vour name at once. In addition, if you retain the 6th ticket, you may win
the £3OOO prize 0 r any of the others. For six tickets you may win Prizes valued at
over £5OOO, including a casket of diamonds, a diamond tiara, and s™ l ”"* o '
The closing date for the Lucky Black Cat Competition is Saturday, March 30. 1 )29.
It is the easiest piece of luck I have ever offered, and I have been in the luck
business since Noah let me and Tabitha out of H Secretary Fire
Address all applications, with 5/ enclosed, to J. J. Neville, Hon. secretary,
Brigades Headquarters, 213 Castlereagh-.treet, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES FIRE BRIGADES’ ART UNION
FOR HOSPITALS, AMBULANCES, AND CHARITY.
Tickets: One
(Sanctioned by the Attorney-General)
£lO 000 in Prizes. The most stupendous Prize List ever drawn up.
Shilling.
Six Tickets. 5/: Twelve Tickets. 10/; Twenty-five Tickets, £l.
A Ticket a Day Keeps Misfortune Away! ... ,
Send at once. State whether Mr.. Mrs., or Miss. Enclosed stamped envelop
for result slip. Art Union Drawn on June 1. 1920.
J. J. NEVILLE. Hon. Secretary. _ . „ v« w
Fire Brigades Headouarters. 213 ro-rtlereagh-«trret. Sydney. N.S.W.
tM
PETv
o
K 6P
UR
cR
9S
!A(C
vyi
Of
wi
* •» On
iv on
o
SI SI
B*. T3 0
I 2:
Y*
1> <?sfr a
a
Light food for the aged.
t
Food
A 478
Beg. trade Hark.
With advancing years, the
need for food which is suit-
ably light yet strength-
giving and sustaining is
imperative. No food com-
bines these qualities so
happily as Benger’s Food,
as medical men agree.
Send for Beaver's Bonhh’i, posl free,
BENGER’S FOOD, LH,,
350, George Street, SYDNEY..
/
the" VENUS
ohms the ulorld
The first rough suggestion—the skilful
and accurate working out, the sharp
detailed drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
constructive effort, call for the use of VENKJS
Pr NCILa Whether it be for the building of a
battle-ship or the des gn of a simp'e household
article, the pencil is the first requirement: the
VENUS the first pencil.
17 Blacklead Degrees 68-9 H ad. each - 4/9 per dozen, £u P er C°PVing (Medium & Hard) 6d.
each - 5/y per dozen. Venus Copying (Medium & Hard) 4d. each - SI 9 per dozen.
GheOia-Workf
... galleries. LTD.
65 Duke Street, Grosvenor Square,
London, W.l, England
(4 doors from Oxford Street, near Selfridge’s).
Cables: Olgallery, Westo, London.
BUY YOUR ENGLISH ANTIQUES FROM
ENGLAND.
We arrange for boxing, consular invoices and
declaration of antiquity, freight, insurance and
delivery to your door at the very lowest
rates. Antiques admitted duty free to Australia.
ẃ
mqrlije
Everybody
~ Substitute
needs a Light POSTFRG ,
(Special Trade O©
terms)
NIOR’S AGENCY, BRISBANE
Estab 1915 (Dept 3)
BE FREE FPi
ASTHMA
No matter how severe youf
ASTHMA, CATARRH, COLD
IN THE HEAD, BRONCHITIS,
etc. Potter’s Asthma Powder
brings immediate and soothing
relief.
Of a'l Medicine Vendors 2/6 per Tin.
POTTER & CLARKE. LTD..
Artillery Lane, London. England
For outdoors, use Potter s Smoking
Mixture and Cigarettes
ASTHMA
"□WOES
m
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.


4 out of 5 needlessly suffer
Neglect your teeth and gums, and you open wide the door to
vicious Pyorrhea. That is the simple reason why four out of five
after 40 (and many younger) suffer its dread effects, paving the
way to serious sickness, loss of health and beauty.
So dangerous and yet so unnecessary! With reasonable care,
you need never fear the ravage of Pyorrhea. Make it a rule to
see your dentist twice a year. And start using Forhan’s for
the Gums to-day.
Forhans, used in time, thwarts Pyorrhea, or
checks its course. It firms the gums and
keeps them healthy. It protects teeth against
acids which cause decay. It keeps them
clean and snowy white.
Forhans, the formula of R. J. Forhan,
D.D.S., contains Forhan’s Pyorrhea Liquid,
used by dentists everywhere.
Start the Forhan habit to-day, and use it
regularly morning and night. Teach your
children this habit. It is pleasant tasting.
It is health insurance. Safeguard youth and
health—get a tube to-day! Price 2/- and
3/6. Obtainable from all Chemists and
Stores, or will be sent post free upon receipt
of the price by the Australian Agents,
Sheldon Drug Co., Ltd., 131 Clarence
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Formula of R. J. Forhan, D.D.S.,
Forhan Company, New York.
Forhart's for the gums
MORE THAN A TOOTH PASTE . . . IT CHECKS PYORRHEA
FO
Hi©
H YOU
mm
ip
w
S* e«i
* »0f
•»*»*»
■m
V ft*.*
cr-;
r'
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Restful, quiet and cool —open to the Summer Sea Breezes. Delightfully situated with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service.
Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Summer Tariff f.-om 5 guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines’*. Management M. E. BURROWS.
SEEING
ENGLAND
IT IS EASIER AND BETTER BY CAR.
Speed away into the open countryside
of rural England, in a Car of your own.
HENLYS will sell you a Car and Guarantee
to repurchase it at a definite price fixed at the
time of buying. This will enable you to
your expenditure of running a
Car, which is cheaper than hiring ; does
away with irritating formalities, and
your car is always at hand to go
wherever you like. You can use
it till the last day of your holiday,
with no worries of trying to find
a purch ■ ser.
HENLYS LEAVE CAR SERVICE is
the n ost comprehensive ever evolved.
Send for a Brochure “Seein g England
by Car” giving full particulars, and
. when in England call and inspect
| our huge and varied selection of
up-to-date models.
HENL/f
England’s Leading Motor Agents.
Devonshire House, Piccadilly, W. 1
and 9 Branches in London &. Manchester.
r .1
ja, -if* ,i .X <
* - ik A't
S2^
<?
S- •»
.
*
•>»/
'’4Wl.
,\ .
A Free Copy of “Seeing England by Car” will
on application from the offices of this paper, 214 George Street North, Sydney.
and a bit over to come and go on while
you’re getting settled. Guy can let mo in by
the back door—all these houses are alike —
and you can nip over to the Central, get
the tickets and wait for Guy. He’ll get to
you, all right',”
For a long time old Tom battled with
Moonier’s scruples, listened to long haran-
gues in French, watched him twirling his
moustache and glaring at the ground. He
was a hard case. But in the end Tom’s
eyes with that gleam in them beat him, and
lie shuffled off to fetch Guy.
Guy's face blanched suddenly as he lis-
tened and then flushed as suddenly.
“You see, Guy,” Tom pointed out with
complacency, "when your Granno goes to bed
at, say, nine or a bit before, he doesn’t, if
you understand me. He nips out the back
door and / go to bed. It’s the only way as
I can see,” Tom leaned back self-con-
sciously, “of you’re having any chance of
getting past the —of getting past her.”
“Look, Mr. Adam,” Guy began, his starry
eyes on old Tom’s face and his lower lip
trembling, “if I tried to tell yer”
“Well, don’t try,” Tom interrupted him
hurriedly. “What you’ve got to do to-night’ll
take you all your trying, Guy. The whole
bag o’ tricks hangs on you, as you might
say.”
“You sleep on the trestle in yer grand-
father’s room to-night, Guy.” -
Guy looked up, a wild panic clutching at
his heart. Had she spotted the game?
“I don’t trust the pair of yer, not sepa-
rate,” Mrs. Wales went on while Guy’s heart
came slowly back to normal. “And no
lyin’ in in the mornin’. Don’t forget yer
train goes at 9.15, and Pm not goin’ to
run rings round yer gettin’ yer off. See?”
“All right, aunt.”
“Then yer better get to bed early, to make
sure yer don’t sleep in.”
At ten o’clock she crept up the stairs and
softly opened the door of old Moonier’s room.
Fast asleep, the pair of them'. Or sulking,
as usual. There was Guy on the trestle
with his eyes closed. And there was old
Moonier’s grey head on the pillow of the
bed. He’d got his face turned to the wall —
thought his heart was broken, the old fool.
She’d find a way to put that right for him
to-morrow; too big for his boots, that’s
what he was. But you couldn’t trust them.
So she pulled the door to and locked it.
That would stop any hanky-panky'.
Guy came out of his trance of terror.
And who, in the ’Loo, shall take more
than passing, indifferent note of a lad
slipping softly down the sloping roof of
a wash-house and hurrying off into the night?
At midnight Mrs. Wales’s sleep was dis-
turbed. There seemed to be a loud knocking
going on in the house —persistent, as if
someone was banging on a door. Dramatic-
ally unlovely in a ginger-colored dressing-
gown, Mrs. Wales left her room to see
to it. Finally she ran down the knocking to
old Moonier’s door. Had the old fool gone
crazy ?
“What’s up?” she demanded.
On the other side of the door old Tom
licked hfs lips and swallowed hard. “That’s
what I want to know,” he said sternly.
The savage grating of the key in the lorik
was followed by the flinging open of the
door. Mrs. Wales peered at old Tom in the
light of her candle.
“Gawd,” she said, her voice heavy and
hoarse with menace. “What are you doin’
in other people’s places this time o’ night?”
“What am I doin’?” Tom stood his ground
and stared back at her. “I’m wondering why
I’m locked in, for a start.”
“Locked in?”
“Yes.” Tom even glared at her. “I come
over for a bit of a chat with my friend Mr.
Moonier, find him out; wait for him a bit-
lie down on the bed and maybe fall into a
bit of a doze. And when I wake up I find
I’m locked in! What’s the game? What”
Mrs. Wales thrust Tom and his indigna-
tion out of her way and strode into the
room. She pulled back the covers of the bed,
and stormed over to the trestle. Empty....
both empty.
She came back to Tom, the candle shak-
ing in her hand and her face black.
“They’ve gone!” she whispered.
“Yes, very likely. But what I want
to”
“Shuddup /” she yelled. “I’ll put the police
on ’em—by. God, I’ll have the law of ’em.
A dirty pair o’ sneakin’ cadgers, eatin’ me
out of house and home, an’ then crawlin’ off
like this!” She slammed the candlestick
down on the combination. “This minute I
put me clothes on an’ go over to the station
—quod for the pair of ’em ! That’ll cool ’em
off.
Tom’s indignation slipped from him like
a garment. Cold and definite, his old eyes
looked at her infuriated face'.
“I wouldn’t do that, Mrs. Wales,” he sug-
gested mildly. “Not if I was you I wouldn’t.”
“Ho! Yer wouldn’t, wouldn’t you? And
why not, Mr. Pauper Adam?”
, “Well, there’s the- ’Loo, for one thing,”
his pleasant voice reminded her. “The ’Loo
know’s a good bit about the sort o’ deal Mr.
Moonier and the lad got here. That’s all
right, if you can keep it under your thumb,
as you might say—the neighbors are alwmys
talking about somebody. But not when you
get the police in. And a witness or two—
perhaps from next door, perhaps from across
the street.”
“Look,” she snarled, “you old string o’
nothin’, I believe you’re in it. An’ it’ll be
quod for you, too, if”——
“And then there’s the papers,” Tom’s
voice was still implacably smooth and
friendly-sounding, “the papers like to get
hold of something like that. It’s all right
if you don’t do anything and let the neighbors
and the ’Loo think what they like. But
not if you let the police and the papers into
it.. Then it isn’t always so safe, as you
might say. Of course, as you say, there
mir/Jit be quod in it,” his cold eyes seemed to
search her face; “but then, again, there
might not.”
Mrs. Wales considered this in a heavy,
sullen silence, her suffused eyes watching
Tom’s casually-friendly face." “You old
devil.” she muttered at last; “you are in
it”
She picked up the candlestick.
“Oh. good riddance!” she said suddenly.
“Let ’em go, wdierever they are. They were
only expense an’ worry, an’ me slavin’ for
’em. Let ’em go.”
Tom smiled at her. “I thought vou’d see
it that way, Mrs. Wales,” he said. “It’s
wonderful the way you can work a thing out
if you put your mind to it, as you
might”
Mrs. Wales thrust her face close to his.
“Get out,” she roared; “get out before I
put the broom across yer back, yer old”
On the morrow old Tom was in his usual
place on the gasbox. Before him the same
old Palmer-street w’as dusty and shabby in
the heat. It looked like being a solid, old-
time summer—burn the eyes out of you
again, he wouldn’t wonder. He filled the
first pipe of the day.
He saw Marty going by with a basket
of groceries; and Marty smiled and called
out, “ ’Morning, Tom. How are you this
morning?”
“Not too clever, Marty,” old Tom told him.
“Not too clever this morning.”
But there was no grieved look in Tom’s
eyes. There was, instead, a quiet glow of
triumph.
A Harbor Cove.
Forehead cooled by the dew-waslied air,
Free of care as the wind is free,
Idling here in this harbor cove
Fronted am I by mystery;
While around me a slow sea-range
Sets the weeds on the rocks as way,
Night with its wizard power makes strange
All the scene that I knew by day.
Changed is all that I viewed by morn,
Gone the glory I saw at noon ;
Waves that reddened at sunset time,
Now lie still ’neath a crescent moon;
Where white-sailed or with flashing oar,
Painted boats o’er the water plied,
Lone and sable by yonder shore
Floats a hulk on the making tide.
Yielding place to a light land-draught,
Breathing softly o’er cove and height,
Chained and still is the day’s fresh wind,
Capping the waves no more with white;
Where flower-lovers, a joyous band,
Roamed green hollows and timbered spurs,
Pallid and high now beacons stand
Watched by the eyes of mariners.
Back of me where the whole day through
Birds of the bush were carolling,
Hushed and stilled by the spell of night
Never a song goes echoing;
Where the wind from the swaying trees
Harp-notes summoned and lute-notes clear,
Under the touch of the light, land breeze
Only a whisper of leaves I hear.
Yet, though never a thrush makes sound,
Never a bee on flowers abloom,
Night, grave night, has its voices, too—
Voices attuned to the starlit gloom.
Heard is the cricket in the grass,
Heard far breakers on beach and bar,
Heard the calling of swans that pass,
Sable arid swift, ’neath moon and star.
Forehead cooled by the dew-washed air,
Free of care as the wind is free,
Idling here in this harbor cove,
Thralled by the scene’s dark mystery,
Lone am I as a man could wish,
Loving night and its charms to be,
Watching the leap and fall of fish,
Watcliing the tide creep stealthily.
n.s.w.
RODERRIC QUINN.
Townfolk.
They said Farewell in a hundred rending
ways
To peace and the stars that shook their
radiance free;
Farewell to laughing ranks of hope’s bright
days
Poised on their moments of expectancy.
No old-world songs or old-time fancies swim
Like a soft cloud of scent, or light or
sound \
Into their days of vanity; no dim
Eternities of longing wrap them round.
Their wits uncertainties may not dispel
Nor any conscious subterfuge compose
Unending restlessness; they who rebel
Against the arrogant beauty of the rose!
The towns are full of wandering, haunted
men,
No hidden waters call; their gain and
loss
Have trapped them; they will never see
again
The old logs mouldering in their cloaks
of moss.
Or, seeing them, their weary hearts stay
still;
Far, far from here, beyond the city gate,
The tinkling bellbirds call from creek to
hill,
The she-oaks in their verdant shackles
wait.
And tall grey gums, soaked in the rustle of
showers,
Rear through a falling Heaven of friendly
cloud
Like banded ghosts of Summer’s radiant
hours
Conscious of their vast ancestry—and
proud.
Nor can the valleys where the thrushes sang,
Where dodging robins scouted down the
ways,
Nor odor of drenched verdure send their
pang
Of peace unutterable across these days.
Comes fear upon these people for sweet
things
So peaceably forgotten, calm unknown?
Comes a bush fear on their mad wanderings
That their cars thrash the roads from
tow’n to town?
VICTORIA.
FURNLEY MAURIE.


Not mere opinion-
but the CONSIDERED
JUDGMENT of the
majority
3
ft'
rm
'
-
IS
mm
llttt§i
m
m
iff
L:..
v ;
■
: •>/ A
■ ;
■
hi
in
ii§?
■
19 i I
ii
" ■'/ x .
iMyr.-
■
!fi
....
„ * "
.
i ■
i
Mi
xm
I
a
I
m
;
.
; 0..
■P
*
s
..
.v
.3-:
#3?
m
v .
■ •'
i
s . ft
3,
31
-ft
m
5i
I
'-V
-i
iftft
u
b. .1
Republic Trucks are the finest, most efficient, most
dependable and most economical that it is possible for
engineering skill and vast financial resources to
produce. That is a bold statement which we are ready
to prove by demonstration, competitive or otherwise.
In design and manufacture they are absolutely
unmatched, simply because Republic’s experience in
the truck field has had greater scope than that of any
other truck manufacturer. There are more Republics
in use to-day than those of any other exclusive truck
manufacturer. Republic is not just a one-year or two-
year truck.
Republic leadership will be stronger than ever as a
consequence of an even wider margin of superiority
unquestionably assured by scores of vital improve-
ments carefully developed. Republic performance
will be an enviable standard to strive for in the future
as it always has been in the past.
New South Wales:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177-185 William Street, Sydney.
Queensland:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency
(Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
Western Australia:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
Victoria:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
South Australia:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
New Zealand:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
■ Taranaki & Cable Streets,
Wellington.
Factory Distributors:
W. A. CROWLE, LTD., Crowle House, 105 York St., Sydney.


Children
enjoy
ẅ
it makes them
Wellandstrona
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists«. Stores
GOOD BLOOO is THE W$ L
'tua.T Up
ess,
Kama Vita women don’t need "make-up.” They
ARE beautiful. No make-up ever produced could give
the natural, unaffected charm that follows the use of
Kama Vita Liver extract.
Red lips, rosy cheeks, bright eyes, a beautiful figure
—all these depend on adequate healthy blood, which
Kama Vita gives you. The remarkable blood and
body-building power of Kama Vita has been proved
beyond all doubt in hospital tests by leading Doctors.
One jar will make you look better and feel better
than ever before.
SEND TO-DAY FOR FREE LITERATURE.
On sale at all Chemists, 8/- per 4oz. jar, or direct from us
at 8/9, post free, if not obtainable
locally.
arm
Liver Extract
KARNA VITA COMPANY
226 a George Street, Sydney
icJ
day \viff-j
J
After your shampoo
a touch of Rowland’s
Macassar Oil will re-
place the natural oil
which the shampoo re-
moved. The oil is very
necessary, for it pre-
vents thin, falling hair
and gives a perfect
healthy gloss. Comb
the oil well into the
hair.
From all Chem-
ists, Stores and
Hairdressers.
Red for dark
hair; golden for
fair or grey hair.
Km)
antfs
Macassar OH
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.1.,
ENGLAND. C.T.P.66.
his self-love and vanity. She wrote on one
occasion:
The Witch,
In the Silent River.
My dear Love—l have your letter and
1 love you for it, as for everything else
you do. I have been sitting here all the
evening, in the boat, just thinking of you
and wishing. I am, sure you must have
felt my thoughts hovering about you, and
the longing which is pain. I have never
loved another, and I have lived some years
since I left the convent that 1 could have
filled with, loving, so I suppose now that,
after years of waiting, this love flows
strongly and swiftly to make up for the
hours it has been sleeping.'
I hope to meet you to-morrow in Sonia-
avenue at 3 o’clock. I hope nothing will
happen on this boat to prevent me meet-
ing the man in all the world for me. One
thing I would like, and that is never to
leave you again — no, not for a minute.
I really must stop or you will think me
terribly brazen to tell you of my love
like this; but it is the thing I want to do
most in the world, and it is your own fault
whatever you have to put up with from me,
for you began it, sir, with ‘May I walk
with you?’ You are such a wonderful lover
that I have to respond.
Goodnnight, my dearest. I will kiss you
just as I fait asleep to dream of you.
Waking or sleeping, you are my happiest
thought, and I am your loue for ever.
Marie.
Sonia-avenue was an unfortunate tryst-
ing place for such lovers as Marie and
Gerald. They had not been together five
minutes when Marie’s father came out of
the club-room where he had been drinking.
He shouted some threat at Gerald, accused
him of trying to lead his daughter astray ;
then rushed wildly at him, and they com-
menced to struggle.
A crowd soon gathered.
“Look out, Deacon!” cried one who-knew
them both. “Tony has a knife!”
Hard and wiry though he was, Gerald
felt he could not throw the heavy Italian.
With an effort he broke away from Car-
ducci’s clutches. The Italian rushed at him,
knife in hand. Gerald side-stepped the mad
oncoming and the next moment the river
peddler was lying in the thick powdered dust
of Sonia-avenue, unconscious from a lucky
blow delivered on the side of the chin.
The story was told by a fruitpicker who
belonged to Broken Hill, where they under-
stand such incidents: “The Dago has an
open knife, and with a whoop he rushes at
the bloke. The bloke, he was a cool ’un,
steps aside and lets go his left like a kick
from a horse. He gets on the point and
down the Dago goes dead to the world.
They think his light is out, but he comes
to all right. It all happened in a flash.
The Dago gets up. His daughter goes to
him. Then Miss Calcroft comes in her
motor-car and then gee! if the old Dago
ain’t put into it and they goes off. And o’
course the ‘cop’ comes up after it’s all over.”
Chapter 111.
A sense of peace broods over the river
in the early morning hours of summer days.
Fresh, cool, invigorating air, charged with
earthy scent and the aroma of gum-leaves,
fills the winding ways of the waters. Shafts
of light touch the grey-brown trunks of the
rough grizzly gums with faint tints of rosy
color. The throaty chuckle of a giant
kingfisher is heard in the treetops, or the
bird chortles from a dead limb snagged in
the river. The chuckle is followed by a
peal of laughter, and at the spund of this
grey jackass’s clownish song life in the bush
begins another day.
The loud laughter of such a bird caused
Carducci, who had tossed the night through
in a feverish v sleep, to awaken from the terror
of a horrible experience that a vivid dream
had made real to him. He had dreamt he
was swinging on a rope ladder, twenty feet
above the pavement of a Paris boulevard,
and that the ladder was attached to a
small window balcony whereon stood an old
lady. She had a knife in her hand and she
was cutting the rope. When he looked
below to see how far he had to fall to the
pavement, four guardians of the peace
were waiting for him, and they had their
revolvers drawn. His dream only partly
reconstructed the Bellarosa crime, but it
outlined the robbery sufficiently to cause
Carducci to suffer wild fears when, he
thought how he had failed to keep his
agreement with Neigre. He was to have
fought and bellowed if the police came, and
so warned Neigre not to descend by the
rope. If the way of escape lay clear,
Neigre was to have dropped the money
and jewels in a bag to him and he was to
have hurried away to the other side of
Paris to a cabaret in the Avenue des Ternes
and there they were to have equally shared
the valuables.
That was the agreement, accepted by
Francois Neigre in good faith. Neigre was
an apache who boasted of his own code of
honor that would not allow him to help
the police or betray a partner in crime.
As for any partner of his who might be
foolish enough to help the police against
him—well, Neigre would smile, shrug his
shoulders and say “La Savate!”
Neigre effected an entrance to the hotel
of the Baroness Bellarosa by climbing
over some roofs in the guise of a plumber.
He forced an attic window over the apart-
ments of the Baroness. Carducci had excused
himself from accompanying Neigre on the
plea that he became giddy when he climbed
any height, not being a sailor like Neigre.
It would take too long for Neigre to escape
with the booty across the housetops. He
could not risk going down the stairs, for
he would in that case probably meet the
lynx-eyed concierge in the courtyard. The
rope ladder and the dropping of the money
and jewels were Carducci’s idea. Whether
he suggested this plan with the inten-
tion of using it as a trap,, or whether
the chance came and Carducci seized it,
nobody ever knew. It is doubtful whether
he was very clear about it himself. All
that is certain is that as soon as the booty
was lowered Carducci escaped with it and
the police lay in wait for his partner.
* * * ,jc
Carducci, awakened from his nightmare
of a dream, rose from his bunk and went
on deck with a towel in his hand. He sat
down on an empty candle-box, holding his
head in his hands. It ached so severely
that he groaned while he swayed to and fro.
To obtain ease he lay at full length on the
boat’s deck with his head over the river,
the better to mop up cold water with a
towel and squeeze it over his burning brain.
He touched his chin and the pain from
doing so brought back to his befuzzled
intelligence thoughts of what had happened
on the previous afternoon.
“O my God,” he exclaimed in Italian,
“what a head! The grapes must have fer-
mented with the drink. Never again will
I mix grapes and drink!”
After repeated lavings his head was cooled
somewhat and it did not throb so pain-
fully. He squeezed the water out of the
towel and bound it around his brow.
“What a clumsy fool I am,” he thought;
“but the sight of Deacon was too much for
me. I should have given him rope and
then made his father pay more for the
letter. Enough, at any rate, to save the
boat from those thieves of merchants. Oh,
fool I am!”
Carducci put his right hand within his
shirt and touched his talisman. Then he
made the sign of the Cross and went after-
wards to the stem of the boat. Punchin-
ello, Marie’s cat, was there washing his face,
quite happy with his life in Riverina. Car-
ducci gave the animal a kick with one of
his large stockinged feet. The impact sent
the cat up into the air to fall overboard
into the river, from which, after a hard
struggle, he reached the bank and meowed
piteously. Carducci laughed as such men
laugh in Naples when cruel to animals:
“But they are not Christians!” He was
satisfied. He had succeeded in making
something else miserable.
Stepping ashore he caught the cat and
flung him, dripping wet, on board again.
Then he untied the ropes that moored
the boat to the river bank, went on board
and started the motor engine. The noise it
made awakened Mrs. Carducci and Marie.
Carducci lost -no time in putting the
boat’s head well into the swirl of the stream.
Then taking a seat at the wheel he waited
for the question he expected his wife to ask.
“What you move the boat for, eh?”
“Light the fire, and put on the kettle,”
Carducci answered.
“Where you go?” demanded his wife.
“Down the river,” replied her husband.
“My eyes do see that. You go to Ren-
mark?”
“Get the breakfast and not ask the fool
question,” he growled in reply.
Mrs. Carducci lit the galley fire and put
on the kettle. Marie glared at her father,
moved sulkily towards the galley fire and
began frying his breakfast, bacon and an egg.
Carducci told Jeannette to fetch him his
pipe, tobacco and matches. She did so
without a word. After several attempts the
pipe was lit. He took the towel off his
head, and things did not look so much
askew as they had when he kicked Punch-
inello overboard.
“Fry one more egg for your father. It
may choke his temper,” said Mrs. Carducci
quietly in French.
“He’s a brute!” replied Marie under her
breath, breaking an egg into the pan.
“What you two whispering about, eh?”
Carducci asked.
“We want to know where you going,”
his wife replied.
“Oh! Oh!” her husband laughed loudly.
“The wise man say, 'The house is not the
good one where the hen crow louder than
the cock.’ Ha! Ha!”
The aggressiveness of the Frenchwoman
was aroused. She seized the frying-pan and
tossed bacon and eggs into the river.
“Canaille! The breakfast you get your-
self!” she snapped.
Carducci swore at his wife and daughter.
“Shut up, if you can!” screamed his wife
in French. “You did much last night, you
drunken cochon! The police were they
after you? MonDieu! Soon, Antonio Cyr-
ducci, you be in Wentworth gaol.”
“Bah!” sneered her husband. “I go to
Mildura to-morrow.”
“Like you go back to Paris, eh? To
Rue dc la Roquette—perhaps, eh? To
Boulevard Haussmann? What you go to
Mildura for?”
“Sacre, woman! Put bacon in the pan,
and I tell you.”
Mrs. Carducci put some bacon in the pan.
“And eggs,” Tony suggested, watching a
lump of dripping melt away from a spoonful
into a lake of bubbling fat.
“I like not,” he said, “more smoke than
meat, and the pan was too much in the
smoke.”
His wife glared at him, lifted the pan
as if she was about to hurl its contents again
into the river.
“Dio mio! Do not, Jeannette, Non!
Non!” pleaded her husband.
His wife placed the pan once more on
the galley fire.
“Now, speak,” she said.
He replied that he was going back to Mil-
dura on the morrow, when his head would
not ache so much.
“What for?” asked his wife, placing the
food on a plate, which her husband seized.
Defiantly, with his breakfast in his pos-
session, Carducci said: “I go to take out
the warrant.”
His wife did not seem to be impressed.
She said quietly to him: “Trouble if you
do! So drunk yesterday, eh, that you not
remember the knife you drew on the young
man? Do not often I say to you, Tony,
you become a clumsy fool? The Aus-
tralians like not the knife.”
“Peste, woman! I draw not the knife.
The young dog he come at me. He hit
me—ah! Then I myself take care, and
—so little then I know. He shall pay.
I say nothing to him. Was not so as I
say, Marie?” asked Carducci feeling his sore
jawbone.
Marie did not answer.
“Ah,” he exclaimed, “you say not. You,
an ingrate! You help not your father.
I track you and your Gerald for one, two,
yes, three nights. I see him and you under
th.e palm-trees. I find a letter from him.
He make love to you. Ingrate: he make
the love to you! Ah, he shall pay!”
Marie was not alarmed to learn from her
father that he had watched her clandestine
meetings with Gerald, but she was chag-
rined to know he possessed a letter of
Gerald’s addressed to her.
“Where is the letter?” she said quietly. “I
suppose you have picked the lock of my box.”
“Ha, ha!” laughed Carducci. “I know
not how to pick a lock, eh, Jeannette?”
Changing his tone, Carducci shouted:
“He make passion to you? I will make
gaol for him to hit me so. He make the
love, eh?”
“And why not? Am I not a woman?”
asked Marie.
“Old! Oui! She is no child!” said her
mother.
“The hen and the chick! Ha, ha! The
roostere nowhere? Oh, the women!”
grunted Carducci.
Nevertheless Marie’s reply and her
mother’s attitude disconcerted Carducci,
though he tried to appear unconcerned. At
the same time he had alarmed Marie and
had even deceived his wife, which was some-
thing. He had not any intention of apply-
ing for a warrant to arrest Gerald Deacon.
There was no money in doing that. He
considered the more promising move was
to see Gerald’s father, with a view" to learn-
ing from him Ijow much money he would
give to hush up the affair. Also he had
Gerald’s love-letter to sell. That letter was
substantial value for money to be received.
Carducci handed over the steering of the
boat to his wife and ate his bacon, tossing
the rind towards Punchinello. The cat was
being stroked and petted by Marie.
“Take care that you are not thrown into
the river some day,” she said.
“Ah, the kitten, eh? It do scratch like
her mother. Marie has the pin in her
her mother. Marie has the pin in her tongue!
Ha, ha!” he laughed as he leered at her.
Then putting his hands to his head he
groaned, and besought the Virgin to inter-
cede for him and ease his pain. But, no
relief coming, he said he would moor the
boat and rest awhile in his bunk.
The women were not sorry to see him
go below, which he did as soon as he had
made the boat’s ropes secure enough to
prevent the Witch from being sent adrift
by the wash of any passing river steamers
with their barges in tow. He was not long
in falling asleep and he slept the best part
of the day, so the atmosphere of the
boat was peaceful. The women spent the
hours in sewing, reading and fishing. Mrs.
Carducci confided to her daughter that she
felt they both would have to leave her
husbandi—he was quite impossible. No
experience would teach him. He would
strike them if he dared; but no! no! She
knew too much; he would not do that.
They would go some day to Paris and there
they would stay, lost, so that not even he
could find them in the beautiful city. She
talked and talked and her refrain was Paris.
Carducci slept on and dreamed as the
women talked; and they too dreamed their
dreams.
Next morning Carducci was still hot and
feverish. The awful lees of grapes ferment-
ing in the liquor he had taken and the
tumble he had had were causing him to
suffer what he called in Italian the torments
of the damned. He compared his tongue
to the tongue of his boot, and he had the
taste of purgatory in his mouth. To counter-
act it he ehewed peppermints and garlic.
Antonio’s temper was as bad as it could
be short of betraying him into violence.
Punchinello sensed it and was not seen
on deck. The peddler swore and swore at
the prospect before him. He would have
a long walk to Mildura and then he would
have to find a boat to cross the river and
so enter the town. And, after all, it would
be his luck to find Mistere Deacon out-
“Ah,” he said to his wife—“children much
trouble cause to their parents!”
Cunningly he prepared himself to play
his part of the distressed father. Being of
an oleaginous habit, an oily appearance
seemed to him to be the mark of aristo-
cratic distinction. On occasions of great
moment, such as this visit to Mr. Deacon,
he greased and brushed his thick black hair
till it shone, waxed his black moustache,
pomaded his face. His pasty neck, sitting
on its base in shining rolls, helped to pro-
claim the unctuous side of the man’s nature.
He put a couple of big, black cigars into
his waistcoat pocket. He looked at himself
in a hand mirror and approved his appear-
ance. Every inch of him, in his opinion,
proclaimed a very fine Italian gentleman.
The prolonged walk along the river bank
was a hot one. The sun’s heat and his own
exertions made rather a sad mess of his
artistry. By the time he reached the
river’s bank opposite Mildura he was more-
over a very thirsty man.
Obtaining a boat he crossed the river
into the town. At the Grand Hotel he had
several drinks. When he left the hotel to
go to Mr. Deacon’s house he had lost the
distinguished air of the “fine Italian gentle-
man” he'fancied hovered about him when
he started, and he looked what he was, a
hot, fat, greasy Italian. Yet after he had
shoved a big, black cigar into his mouth
and lit it, he went puffing clouds of smoke
down Sonia-avenue as self-satisfied as the
day he had promised to make his wife
Queen of Naples.
(To be continued.)


Hankins, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRAUaT
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £5,000.000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3.360.905
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928.. £18.623,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, 1t.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. ft. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E. ;
GEORGE J. SLY. LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER ; C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 1 86 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, -.vith Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH;
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH;
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 616,210
Ordinary Shares .. .. . . 3,750,000
and Undivided Profits 3,732,525
DP ARTC on Australia, New
1/iViH lO Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
ureac nritain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
Reserve Fund
GRANTS
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£1,000,000
Fire Insurances 1
Marine Risks
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and NEW Zealander Reading-room at the
olHces, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
w
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua.
if you have
Wool & Skirts
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office!: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
TLbc
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do
minion" is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to —
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
ŵ
ẁ
At the Cost
of a
City Holiday
Hawaii
Hawaii in winter is the Riviera
of the Pacific. Its gay capital) Hono-
lulu, is a city of flower* and fas-
cination from its famous SUrf to its
summit. The giant Canadian-Aus-
tralasian liners, the finest fleet on
the Pacific run, assure a refreshing
holiday voyage.
Tahiti
An alternative excursion
is offered by the visit paid
to Rarotonga and Papeete
by the Union Company s
steamers. The coral-girt
islands of Tahiti are en-
joyed by an ever-increasing
number of tourists, especi-
ally when winter tempers
the tropical sunshine.
WINTER EXCURSIONS
To Honolulu
£75 First and £55 Second (return)
Niagara leaves Sydney May 30
Makura „ ~ June 27
Aorangi ~ ~ July 25
To Tahiti
£55 First and £4O Second (return)
Tahiti leaves Sydney May 10
Maunganui ~ „ June 13
Tahiti „ „ July 11
UNION STEAM SHIP CO., 247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne, Cl.
STEAMSHIP PASSAGES
Arranged by All Steamship Lines.
Choice of Any Route.
Without Extra Charge.
ENGLAND
FRANCE
ITALY
GERMANY
From AUSTRALIA
AMERICA
CANADA
MEXICO
AFRICA
to
JAPAN
EGYPT
INDIA
CHINA
Also attractive tours to Honolulu, Java, Colombo, Fiji,
BUSINESS TRIPS. PLEASURE CRUISES.
AUSTRALIA TO
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
VISIT JAVA (“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly sailings maintained by the popu-
lar steamers “MARELLA” and “MALA-
BAR” from Melbourne, Sydney and
Brisbane, via Queensland Ports, Torres
Strait, Darwin, etc.
1
m
For Reservations and Information apply
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. And all Branch Offices.
TAKE YOUR HOLIDAYS NOW
in
HAWAII !
HAWAII !
HAWAII !
Come to the paradise of the Pacific and enjoy
a holiday such as you’ve never had before. Bask
in the warm health-giving climate of Hawaii ;
build up both body and mind in the romantic
surroundings of this Island Utopia.
Surf, Golf, Summer Sports galore await you,
plus the contagious cheerfulness of this happiest-
of-all peoples—the Hawaiians. Inter-Island
cruises. Visit Kilauea Volcano.
The steamer fare for such a holiday will cost
as low as £55 second-class or £75 first-class.
Good American Hotels with all meals, 12/- to
£3 daily. Fullest particulars from steamship
and travel agents, or write for booklet.
HAWAII TOURIST BUREAU,
Dept. 26, Box 162788, G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Take your Holidays now—Go to
HAWAII - HAWAII - HAWAII
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Nestor ....
JCeramic . . .
fDemosthenes
*Ulysses . . .
fThemistocles
Runic ....
Ascanius . .
15,000 tons, March 15.
18.500 ~ March 25.
11.500 „ April 12.
15,000 „ May 10.
11,500 „ June 10.
.2 500 „ July 9.
10,000 „ July 22.
"'First class only. fFirst and Third class.
s“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
BANK OF
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND .. ,
RESERVE LIABILITY
NEW SOUTH
Established 1813.
WALES.
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20,900,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq. ; W. E. H. Southerden, Esq. General Manager: Alfred Charles Davidson.
Head Office — George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street. E.C. 2.
536 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated’Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable “remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated ah'd Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
- v-3 A*• •• "
Shipping, fetC;
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passehgel- Sailings—Cifcuinstaiice* permitting.)
Fob MfeLSOtittNfe, ADELAIDE and FttEMANTLE
('transhipping for outports).
FOR BRISBANE; MACkAVj tOWNSVILLE, CAIRFS
(transhipping fbr ohtports).
Splendid Cheap Service
Via Suez Canal
FAST OIL BURNERS
Excellent Menu. Late Dinner.
Fares to London from £3B.
P. § 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For particulars apply
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Box 513 AA, 5 O’Connell St., Sydney.
'Phone : BG7OI
BRISBANE,via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passenger,
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR— Every Tuesday evenrjg;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/6/-
Steamer and First-class Rail. Single, £3/16/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU. CH ALLIS HOUSE.
.MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co,, Ltd.,
Bryce 3 Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Huddart ParkerLl
Magnificent
Paat Passenger
—— Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versi.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDOART PARK ER LIMITED'
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
HAS ACCEPTED
tilhc llegtster
NEWS PICTORIAL
with the utmost enthusiasm.
ALL THE NEWS!
ALL THE PICTURES!
The State’s First Morning
Pictorial.
Largely increased Sales
already assured.
Arrange Contracts at
present rates.
HEAD OFFICE: REGISTER NEWS-
PAPERS, LIMITED, Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative: Eric Pi. Birks,
Sydney. Tel. X 5187.
Melbourne Representative: G. N.
Bednall, “Argus” Building, Mel-
bourne. Tel. F 4502.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to knox.


©
o
Miss GRACE BROWNE,
a beautiful Rexona
Girl, writes: “It gives
me great pleasure, also
I feel it my duty, to
let you l:nou' liow
much 1 value Rexona
Soap. I found out its
value when after a
serious illness my hair
began falling out
rapidly. Each day /
shampooed my hair
with Rexona Soap.
This acted wonderfully,
and not only restored
my hair but doubled
its beauty and lustre.’’
Y
ffirls! Shampoo your Hair
wWt Aexona Soap
Girls! Do you know that in loss than ten minutes you can double the beauty
of your hair? It becomes light, wavy, fluffy, and appears as soft, lustrous
and charming as anyone could desire, after a simple wash with Rexona Soap.
A delightful surprise awaits those whose hair has been neglected, or is scraggy,
dry, brittle or thin.
Rexona Soap cleanses the hair of all dust, dirt or excess oil, and in a few
moments you have doubled the beauty of your hair. Rexona Soap removes
every particle of dandruff, cleanses, purifies and invigorates the scalp, for
ever stopping, itching and falling hair.
If you care to have pretty hair, and lots of it, get a tablet of Rexona Soap
to-day.
'Rexona
Soap
%or yJuaUth
/ and
Bexmhj
w
Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
IN CO-OPERATION WITH
WAGONS-UTS CO.
The only Firm with permanent
offices all over the World to
give service and assistance to
Traveller*.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on hie for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
ESCORTED TOURS TO EUROPE.
ALL CLASSES. Leaving March and April.
We are the pioneers of Escorted Travel, and,
having our own offices throughout Europe,
are the only Tourist Firm properly equipped
to handle such business.
ŵ
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street,
ADELAIDE:
49 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
N.Z.
AUCKLAND:
Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
The Broken Ikons.
A GRAPHIC TALE OF RUSSIAN HOME LIFE TO-DAY, BY S. STEDMAN.
FOR many days before Roman’s arrival
his mother, old Lizaveta Petrovna, had
been busy preparing for it. She had
scrubbed the chairs and the tables, cleaned
the windows, polished the kitchen utensils.
Watching her at this unnecessary work, her
older son, Ivan, knew it was but a means of
hiding her great excitement.
When Roman left to join the army he
was only nineteen. Lizaveta, crying loudly,
watched her boy go, and as the train moved
off she ran down the platform shouting:
“Don’t forget to write, Romanushka !”
But Roman’s letters to his mother were
very rare; and when the village school-
teacher read them to her, Lizaveta nodded
her head and sighed. They usually began in
the orthodox way of a Russian peasant: “To
our dearest mother, Lizaveta Petrovna, of
whom we ask a motherly blessing which will
endure to the end of our days."
Lizaveta wiped the tears with tin* end of
her old shawl and mentally sent her sou the
blessing he asked. Very often she prayed
before the ikon of St. Nicolas, begging him
to protect her boy.
Thus the years of war had passed, and
Russia awakened to a new life, a life full
of high hopes and wonderful possibilities.
The old order had been swept away and
its foundations destroyed. From the largest
cities to the smallest villages the call went
forth, “All power to the people!” Old
Lizaveta moved about her work, afraid to
utter her thoughts aloud, for no one knew
what the end would be.
After the revolution the letters from
Roman grew shorter and more severe, and
he ceased to ask for his mother’s blessing.
It worried Lizaveta, and she tried to find
excuses for her boy.
“He must be working hard, my Roman-
ushka,” she said —“fighting for Mother
Russia.”
After the collapse of the army some vil-
lagers returned home and brought news of
Roman. Petrovna went from one man to
another asking of her son, listening eagerly
to their tales of how he had been decorated
for bravery at the war. She felt very
proud; but when they told her that he
w r as now an officer in the Red army she was
uncertain whether to be glad or sorry.
She had no quarrel with the new Govern-
ment of Russia. In fact, she had a num-
ber of things to say in its favor. The peas-
ants had got the land they had always tilled
but never owned; and the villagers had been
freed a while from the exploitation of the
middle man. Yet somehow’ Lizaveta felt
resentful. Unable to read or write, like
almost all Russian peasants, she depended
on others for all news about the war and
the revolution, and nobody had made things
clear to her. With the expected arrival of
Roman, she decided to ask him to explain
the true meaning and purpose of it all.
Roman w r as to come home for Easter, and
Lizaveta baked a large Kulich (Easter
cake) and had several dozens of eggs dyed
red. Her thoughts dwelt on the days when
Roman was a little boy and how he enjoyed
the Easter cake and the eggs. Her older
son, Ivan, . remained indifferent to his
brother’s arrival. Since Roman had not re-
turned home after the war Ivan classed him
among other city dw r ellers as useless, and
thought little of him. Now when the now’s
came of Roman’s home-coming Ivan’s only
concern was whether his brother would
settle on the land, and, if so, would he have
to share his.
On the long-awaited day Petrovna went
to the station to meet her son. She was
there many hours before the train was due
and sat patiently waiting for it. When
Stepan, the porter, told her that the train
was running late she felt pleased in a way,
for it gave her more time to enjoy thinking
of Roman. “You'll get tired waiting,
Mother,” said Stepan; but Petrovna only
smiled. She had waited many years, and a
few hours would not tire her.
When the train arrived and Roman
appeared on the platform dressed in a mili-
tary uniform, with brass buttons shining in
the sunlight, Petrovna’s heart swelled with
pride.
“Romanushka, mv boy,” she sobbed from
sheer happiness, “I thought you would never
come!
Her son kept at some distance, as though
afraid she would soil his uniform.
„ “Stop crying, Mother,” he said sternly;
people are watching us.”
Petrovna could not understand what there
was to be ashamed of, but smiling through
her tears she spoke apologetically: “Forgive
an old fool, Romanushka, but it is because
of my happiness that I am crying.”
Walking home from the station Roman’s
silence worried her; but she consoled herself
with her thought, “He is tired, my boy • he’ll
be different later on.”
Petrovna opened the door of her little
cottage and let Roman enter. For a while
he stood gazing at the familiar surround-
ings. His eyes rested for some time on the
numerous ikons, of saints in the corner illu-
minated by the dim light of the image-lamp
before them. Petrovna watched him. expect-
ing her boy to make the sign of the Cross
as he did in the past; but lie did not do it.
Petrovna, though disappointed, thought:
“It’s the big city. But he’ll be al] right
after a while at home.”
When Roman noticed on the table the
customary greeting, a loaf of black bread
and some salt, he turned to his mother with
shame in his face and said:
“Fancy keeping all these relics of a past
age! Don’t you know there is a new life
in Russia?”
Petrovna did not quite understand the
meaning of that. So “I am too old, Roman-
ushka, to change,” she said quietly.
“Never too late.” he said with authority.
Petrovna felt disturbed and disappointed.
Somehow her boy was not the same. She
could not “get near him." and in her heart
she searched for excuses.
It was on the second day of Roman's
return that he began to ask questions of his
mother. He was interested in the people
and particularly in the school teacher —
wanted to know what sort of a man he was
and what were his beliefs. Petrovna felt
happy at this; she knew her son would be
himself after a rest. In her gladness she
told Roman about the teacher, who had read
all his letters. It was a great shock to her
when her older son, Ivan, told her not to
speak too much about other people to her
younger son. She was perplexed; but, ask
as she would, Ivan would not tell her why.
When tea was over and Roman sat smok-
ing while his mother related to him her
anxiety during the war and the civil strife,
he suddenly said :
“Look here, Mother, these ikons will have
to be taken down!”
Petrovna was astonished.
“What did you say, Romanushka?” she
asked, wishing to believe that she did not
hear him aright.
“The ikons will have to come down,” he
repeated, and added: “If the Commissar
should come here and see me under the
ikons it would ruin my career.”
“Surely, my son,” she pleaded, “God
means more to you than your uniform?”
“Mother,” lie said sternly, “all these things
are of the past. Man counts and not God
these days.”
“Do all men count?” asked Ivan quietly.
Roman looked at him for some time, then
said: “No, not all.”
“I suppose only those who” But Ivan,
instead of finishing the question, suddenly
left the room.
There was silence in the house now; and
Petrovna was thinking hard, her gaze on the
image of St. Nicolas. This ikon was painted
by the village artist, who gave the saint a
kind expression. She felt sorry for Nicolas
who had occupied the corner for many years.
How could she remove him? Was it right
to take down her gods for some strange gods
of her son?
The sun went down and twilight entered
the room, and old Petrovna felt the softness
of the dying day. She felt that part of her,
too, was dying; a great love which had illu-
minated her dull life w r as slowly fading, an;!
a deep pity seized her, a pity for herself, for
her son and for St. Nicolas.
“You did not mean it. really, Roman-
ushka?" she suddenly asked, still struggling,
still hoping for the life of her god.
“Of course I mean it,” he answered gruffly.
“Don’t you know Russia is spreading know-
ledge amongst people like you who still believe
in these fairy tales?”
“Fairy tales!” thought Petrovna. “Yet
how. real," she told herself, “is the relief
obtained by prayer, how possible everything
seems to those who have faith! A life
spent in poverty and hard work —wfflat happi-
ness was there apart from the thought of a
rew T ard in the life to come? How could she
now r , at the end of her days, renounce her
god?”
As if realising the size of the sacrifice
he asked, Roman said.
“See. Mother, I am young. My life is
before me. I am on the right road to success,
and to have it spoilt by a. mere superstition
does not seem right, does it-?”
“No, of course not,” agreed Petrovna, in-
voluntarily. “But my life is nearly spent,
and is it right to destroy my last hope?”
Roman did not answer.
The room was now in utter darkness, save
for the soft small flame of the image lamp,
which lighted the kindly face of St. Nicolas.
Roman rose.
“To-morrow the Commissar is coming
Mother, and I expect you to do it for me.”
He bent down and kissed her on the fore-
head and left the room.
Petrovna could not feel any love in that
kiss. She understood that it was merelv
a bribe, payment for something she was ex-
pected to do.
Could she do it? Should she do it? She
loved her son, was prepared to do almost
anything for his sake, for his happiness; but
to choose between her son and her God was
beyond her strength.
Late into the night she sat silent and
immovable, searching for a way out of her
perplexity. She heard Ivan come home and,
later, Roman, heard them undress and get
into bed. Towards morning, exhausted and
unnerved, she wept prostrate before the
ikons, appealing to them for guidance.
She left the house before Roman got up
and walked into the fields to speak to Ivan.
The grass smelt good, and the song of birds
filled the air. Clear drops of dew sparkled
m the rising sun. and wild flowers waved
their greetings to the new day.
They sat on the trunk of an old tree, and
Petrovna told of her difficult problem.
‘Forsake our gods to please Roman!”
exclaimed Ivan. ‘‘Never! Let. him go if
not like staying with us.”
“But then I’ll never see him again,” said
Petrovna.
For some time Ivan remained silent. Then
he spoke slowdy, deliberately
“You see, Mother, Roman is only suffering
from the disease that has affected most cf
the youth of our country. They are afraid
s j low i°ve, respect or reverence, are slowly
killing the best human feelings, and are turn-
ing into machines -which perform tasks set
for them by those in authority. Watch them ;
they use the same language, have the same
beliefs and disbeliefs, and think all those
who think differently are inferior beings and
should be liquid;!ted. There is no more room
in our country either for you or for your
gods. I am useful because i can still work,
but later we -diall all go on the scrapheap.”
Depressed beyond words, Petrovna was
walking back into the village, still undecided
■when the wife of the school-teacher met her!
(Continued on page 58.)


ẁ
‘TS hy, what has happened?” asked Pet-
rovna, noticing the other woman’s tear-
stained face.
“Petrovna, they have taken away my hus-
band!"
“Who h as taken him?”
“Your son !”
Petrovna did not understand.
“What do you mean?” she asked.
The woman, explained through her sobs,
"Roman and the Commissar came last night
and accused tny husband of being against
the Government. It’s Roman’s fault,” she
wept.
“But how could Roman arrest your lius-
band?” queried Petrovna. “He is not a
nnlicemm ”
“lie is,” answered the other woman. “He
is a spv.”
. Petrovna turned pale. The inherent hatred
for a spy which is in every Russian had
awakened within her.
“I’ll talk to Roman,” she said. “I’ll do
all I can ”
Petrovna moved through the village streets
like one in a dream, and a sharp pain gripped
her heart. For generations Russia had been
living in fear of the spy, afraid to utter its
thought aloud, stifling its best and noblest
feelings. In no other country is the word
■‘spy” so abhorred. Her son a spy!
Suddenly Petrovna recollected her eonver-
sation with Roman about the school-teacher;
she strained her memory to recall every word
sin- had uttered, fearing lest she unknowingly
had betrayed the man.
The sun shone and people moved about,
but Petrovna walked as if enveloped in a
heavy fog, neither hearing nor seeing, her
heart aching and her brains benumbed. She
opened the door of her house and saw Roman
with the Commissar sitting at the table con-
versing quietly. The corner where the ikons
had hung was empty ; only a few threads of
cobwebs adhering to the wall indicated the
spot.
Trembling with fear and anger, Petrovna
gazed at the pare walls as though fascinated
by the black spider which from the corner
watched the ruins of his labor.
“Roman, what have you done?” she cried,
at last recovering from the shock.
“It's all right, Mother.” he answered with
traces of annoyance in his voice, and con-
tinned the interrupted talk.
Petrovna entered her bedroom. On the
floor she found the ikons. Kneeling before
them she begged forgiveness of her gods.
What could she do with the man who was
her son? He represented the new Russia,
which had no time for men or gods unless
they were useful to the country or his party.
Crying bitterly, Petrovna somehow felt
that she was much nearer to her God than
she. ever was before, that the mutual disaster
which had overtaken them had drawn them
closer to one another.
She heard the Commissar depart and called
Roman.
“? e °P| e blame you for thearrestofthe
teacher, ’ she said. Is this right, my son?
It is,” he answered curtly.
. by you do R> Roman ? she asked
simply. . ,
'Because lie is carrying on propaganda
aga ll ls !i the Goveinment. p .
. , But wn.t Russia free? asked Petrovna,
with real simplicity,
Free she is for those who are with the
Government ’’ Saying' which he left the
ro ™?> twilling to discuss th matter
f Th< ‘ u Petrovna sat Pondering over the
Grange ways of men Everything was
tumbling about her. Her love for her soh
destroyed, her gods humiliated, she herself
useless. Life had suddenly lost its beau y.
I e was nothing but a sharp pain left,
She gazed at the kindly face of Nicolas
an d thought she could see a smile in the
eyes of the saint, l’etrovna bent down and
kissed the dusty glass. She felt a real re-
lationship with this Holy Man.
Suddenly she lost touch with the pn-sc >
an< l pictures of her past life invaded nei
memory. She was once again young, with
her babe m her lap. She heard herself cry
out with pain because Roman had bitten
her breast with his sharp first two teeth,
Then the war came and she saw herself see-
ing him off, her heart aching and tears blind-
ing her.
She rose from the floor, and, finding a
sugar-bag, put the ikons into it. Outside
the door she stood for some time looking at
the house where she had spent her life, then,
lifting the bag to her shoulder, she gazed
at the fields. The tall grass moved with
breeze as though beckoning to her. With
steady steps she walked on, carrying her
gods to the distant horizon.
Rollicky Bill the Saylor.
“Where are we goin' ashore to-night,
All discharged from the Lubber’s Delight?”
Says young Tom Brown the sailor.
“We’ll go where we always useter go,
We’ll go to the pubs we useter know,”
Says Rollicky Bill the Saylor.
“For ninety nights on the ocean blue
Is quite enough for me an’ for you;
So we’ll do to-night as we always do,”
Says Rollicky Bill the Saylor.
“We’ll sing ’em a song as round we goes,
All dressed to death in our best shore Clo’es,
Along o’ Polly an’ Peg an’ Rose,”
Says Rollicky Bill the Saylor.
“We’ll stand the copman on to ’is head,
We’ll paint the port a beautiful red,”
Says Rollicky Bill the Saylor.
“An’ savin’ the nights we married our
wives,
We'll have the time of our crimson lives,”
Says Rollicky Bill the Saylor.
“There’s beer for you an’ there’s rum for me,
To drown the thoughts of our thirst at sea,
So open the gates an’ let us gang free!”
Says Rollicky Bill the Saylor.
“There's wine an’ whisky and drinks besides
To wash the brine from our pore insides
All pickled an’ dry like salted ’ides,”
Says Rollicky Bill the Saylor.
“I got no time for a grievin’ ’eart;
Gimme a tankard, gimme a tart!”
Says Rollicky Bill the Saylor.
“Gimme a plate o’ sassidges brown
An’ plenty of ale to wash ’em down!”
Says Rollicky Bill the Saylor.
“Where am I goin’ to sleep to-night,
Now I’ve left me bunk on the Lubber’s De-
light,
How am I goin" to sleep to-night?”
Says young Tom Brown the sailor.
“Under the table, outer the floor
What’s just abaft of the taproom door,
We sleeps the same as we’ve slept afore,”
Says Rollicky Bill the Saylor.
“Supposin’ there ain’t no room for two.
Where’ll I go an' what’ll I do?”
Says young Tom Brown the sailor.
“You’ll find a crib an’ you’ll find a pal,
But beware, young Tom, o’ the glad-eye
gal!”
Says Rollicky Bill the Saylor.
“I never cares an’ I never knows
When I sees the houses standin’ in rows.
When I strolls the streets an’ I hails the
lights,
/ never cares where I sleeps o’ nights,”
Says Rollicky Bill the Saylor.
“Suppose as somebody takes me down,
Suppose I loses me last ’arf-crown?”
Says young Tom Brown the sailor.
“Don’t fret nor grieve for a thing like that!
You’ll pawn your boots an’ your Sunday ’at,”
Says Rollicky Bill the Saylor.
“An’ when your money comes to an end,
You'll take the pledge an’ your ways you’ll
mend.
You’ll find a ship an’ you’ll go s .aboard
(Puttin’ your trust, young man, in the
Lord),”
Says Rollicky Bill the Saylor.
“Suppose I’m sick an’ sorry an’ sore,
Same as I been of a time before?”
Says young Tom Brown the sailor.
“Suppose you says as you’re feelin’ ill
Your captain gives you a nice blue pill,
An’ a good black draught for you to swill,”
Says Rollicky Bill the Saylor.
“You’ll get fat pork from a greasy kid,
A pint o’ swill, an’ a chewin’ quid
(Which sarves you right for the things
you’ve did”),
Says Rollicky Bill the Saylor.
“An’ when you’ve finished your fust dog-
watch
Just sit an’ think on the for’ard hatch,”
Says Rollicky Bill the Saylor.
“Per’aps you’ll pray or per’aps you’ll cuss,
Which ain’t no use, for it might ha’ been
wuss!”
Says Rollicky Bill the Saylor.
“For when you ’ave been an’ gone an’ died
They slips you over the blinkin’ side
In a darned old sail with spunyarn tied,”
Says Rollicky Bill the Saylor,
“To feed the fishes as swims below.
Where soon or later you ’an to go—
That’s all I say an’ that’s all I know,”
Says Rollicky Bill the Saylor.
VICTORIA.
E.J. BRADY.
Purpose.
When the sun slow dips,
And darkling storm-gods close and weave
The panoply of eve;
When crimson lips
Faint-flush a last grey cloud,
And, riotously proud,
The red sun flames and dips,
Then shall I go forth,
And in the sable vast of night
Bestride the storm-gods’ might;
For crowns full worth
A diadem of stars
That pale day dulls and mars
Await the goer forth!
And yet must they be strong
Wlio’d barter for a fair day’s path
The storm-gods’ whirl of wrath;
To them belong
The proudest fruits of earth,
For in their scornful mirth
They build a deathless song—
The goers forth, the strong!
N.s.w.
ROBERT DALE.
The Sea-veil.
The sea-wind whirled over the tussocks.
Over the tide-way it came,
Lifting up foam in its fingers,
As light as a flame,
Threading the festoons of feathery bright-
ness,
Into a pattern of delicate whiteness,
Wove without effort or aim.
“I shall weave,” sang the sea-wind, “in pat-
terns that vary
A foam-fashioned bridal-veil ready for
Mary!”
Flutters of white, soft and airy,
Tinkles of wind-tumbled shells.
“No veil I shall need me,” sang Mary,
“No veil and no sweet bridal-bells!”
Her eyes were the eyes of black sorrow
That hardly dared glimpse the dark morrow;
Her cheeks were as white as the foam,
“His love was as light as a fairy,”
Sang Mary, sang Mary;
“My love has gone far from my longings,
And will never come home!”
Out where the big tides were looping
The sands in a tangle of cream.
She walked with her thin shoulders stooping;
She walked in a dream.
The grey gulls were circling around her;
The grey gulls that gabble and scream.
With high, tintinnabular laughter,
The sea-wind came following after,
Along the pale strands
And w r et places,
Adrift in its hands
The veil it had wove of the glittering laces
The white foam had left on the sands.
“Alas!” sobbed the sea-wind, unstable and
airy,
“ ’Tis a little white shroud I have woven
for Mary!”
VICTORIA.
MAYRA MORRIS.


ft
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES CHCKCH, Brisbane, rnurnnn UM7CT U t WAT PC
N.Z. Ollice—o3-107 leatherston Street. Wellington MINLUKU nfftol, N. a. W AIXO
Victorian OlHce—“Chancery House,’* 185 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER. SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, B.A.
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should caffy your message.
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town and
Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and each
issue is eagerly read by men,, women and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays. Price 6d
MViES BROTHERS, LTD,,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chamber#, 228
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: "Argus"
Building, Elizabeth Street.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sajes invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative :
WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone, MA3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
For Any Advertising Campaign in
Queensland Let Your First Choice Be
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE.
and its companion journal, “The Sunday Mail,”
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine.
“The Daily Mail” is the big morning paper with a
greater nett circulation than any other daily in the
State.
“The Sunday Mail” covers in one day the entire
metropolitan circulation of Brisbane’s four dailies.
For advertising rates and other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN’’
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Always “First" in Queensland Advertising.
The BRISBANE COURIER
HAS AGAIN PROVED ITS SUPERIORITY AS
QUEENSLAND’S LEADING ADVERTISING
MEDIUM.
In 1927 the “Courier” carried 9,070 columns more than its
morning contemporary. In 1928 the “Courier” increased its
lead by 386 columns, making a grand total of 9,456 columns
over its morning contemporary.
It’s simply because the “COURIER” is first in Queensland in
CIRCULATION, ADVERTISING AND INFLUENCE.
Rate Cards and specimen copies from ROBT. D. FISHER,
74 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone B 5007.
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper Co., “Courier ” Building, Queen
Street. Brisbane; also publishers of the “Queenslander ” and “Sports Referee .”
Sifedi light! Headlight!
SbmhtiqlttKM tight!
with those who take
J^k+A dl
<&
s»«
Worth a
Guinea
a Box.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
contains everything that women
should know—from kitchen to
drawing-room, from cradle to
old age. It is the most remark-
able threepenny - worth ever
printed.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
u
3d.
“The Examiner”
Tasmania’s Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
“Weekly Courier”
Published
Every
Wednesday
w
,t 63
iV*' 0 .•
e
<V«
6®
s®
0°
s>V
,6V
..‘A
■ .•• O'V “ & *V*
•; c*V^^


m
&
TOT LPS^
>-0“C
r\
UP.
Pie*
W.M.S
MADE BY
Rylands Bros. (Aust.), Ltd.,
NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.,
and at 422 Little Collins St., Melbourne
c
r (
\sA
\
J
»
m
1
m
Ssis
•«
1
m
&
®sm&
*
St.
p
!fWS
Made throughout from BEST Australian materials.
WARATAH “B.H.P. STAR” STEEL POSTS will not burn. No post holes
to dig—no boring of posts—no wedges or ties—no posts to ram—no
insurance—no white ants—easy to erect.
“WARATAH” FENCING WIRE.—The finest netting made in any part of
the world—will stand the severest test—always even and reliable in quality.
Look for “Waratah” identification disc.
“WARATAH” WIRE NETTlNG.—Guaranteed even, regular and reliable
—well galvanised. Full weight and runs out straight and flat. Can always
be relied on.
Made at Newcastle in Australia
P FROM
“8.H.P.” STEEL
The World’s Best
“FLEXO” DROPPERS are UNBREAKABLE—FIRE PROOF—RUST PROOF
u
pPr.ji
\\Xmm
L%' !
M
s
WILL NOT BURN.
If you use Waratah B.H.P. Star Steel Posts you need never fear bushfires.
Waratah Posts will not bum. The posts, being star-shaped, are extraordinarily
rigid. It is almost impossible to bend them. They are a sure protection against
white ants.
With Waratah Steel Posts you should use WARATAH FENCING WIRE. The
finest Fencing Wire made in any part of the world—will stand the severest
straining test —always even and reliable. Look for the “Waratah” disc on every coil.
WARATAH WIRE NETTING, made in Australia, from Australian materials —
guaranteed even, regular and reliable —rolls out flat.
Made at Newcastle, N.S.W., from finest “8.H.P.” Steel.
oA/fanufaciured Jjy
RYLANDS BROS.(AUST.) LIMITED
M EWCASTLE
200 STEEL POSTS or 20 WOOD
PER
DAY
POSTS
liflut t Urf&jfoOA/
WARATAH BttPSTAR STEEIPOSIS
A sure protection against White Ants and T)amn-rot. Can be easily driven in the
hardest ground. These posts are extraordinarily rigijj, and, being star-shaped,
give equal strength iri every direction. Also always ask for—
WARATAH FENCING WIRE.
The World’s finest wire—will
stand the severest straining tests.
WARATAH WIRE NETTING
Guaranteed even and reliable.
Runs out flat.
j&tj
RYLANDS BROS.fAUST.) LTD. NEWCASTLE.
ALL OF ABOVE ARE MANUFACTURED BY
RYLANDS BROS. (AUS.) LTD., NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
AND AT 422 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
B.H.P. NEWCASTLE STEEL
