

m
1(1
SL
1 The
CORKSCREW BANISHES
by JOHNNIE WALKER'S NEW STOPPER
Z'" 1 ONE the way of quill pens and snuff
boxes, and things of that ilk-—the
corkscrew prime tantaliser of thirsting
humanity,nearly always A. W.L., frequently
useful for drawing a cork, E. and O.E.
In its place the Johnnie Walker cork
stopper, with the milled top —drawn with
finger and thumb in an instant a
perfect prelude to a perfect drink.
No fuss, no fiddling, no fuming—just a
turn of the hand, and there’s the whisky of
your choice, instantly accessible-and doubly
enjoyable because you didn’t have to search
for the corkscrew.
mo
r>\
r
V
zx
Born 1820-
Still going Strong
PULL UP
U
&
N
REMOVE
the Ccwsail&
Lab^i
Hit.
draw the Cork
'mihfmqerj, Uumh
V-
U
JOHNNIE WALKER
WHISKY
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., Sydney, Melbourne. London and Kilmarnock
The Bulletin
4 “h
VfvL, At\ud[, (H&awi un, JlnJUrf-, dfawda T*£&.27
Vol. 50.— N0. 2558.
Wednesday, February 20, 1929.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


\Y/RITE FOR THE LIBRARY CATA-
w LOGTTE AND LISTS on all subjects,
which will be forwarded on application, post
free, to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“Story Writing
THis BooK FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence
100 Russell Street, Melbourne,
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Writ p for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney BulletlV.
My Rame
My Address
d
STAMMERING AND STUTTERING
CAN BE CURED IN YOUR OWN HOME
Send TO-DAY for particulars of “Perfect Speech” and copies of letters from
those who have been cured. Philip O’Bryen Hoare, M.BJ.M.Se. (London) (The
Stammerers’ Friend), Specialist in Public Speaking and the Cflie Of Stammering
and Stuttering.
ADDRESS:
56 BRISBANE ARCADE, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
P.O. Bex 1142 P.
ncM
Insist upon
Goracrairs
GIN
The Ingredients used in the production of
GORDON'S GIN are of the finest quality
procurable, and contain the greatest per-
centage of those importan properties which
are considered by the Medical Profession
to be most beneficial to the human system.
It is very highly rectified and contains no
impurities of any kind; it is therefore very
easily diges ed and also aids the digestion
of other teverages with which it is mixed.
The name ** GORDON” guarantees the
very highest standard of quality and abso-
lute purity: a reputation enjoyed and
jealously guarded for over 150 years
erywhere
The
Largest Gin
Distillers
in the
World
By Appointment.
r A ioiMoaifo9 '«ii*i>6NVA
o »»->'>•< i
sasalniiuisi!<a
NIOAHa
If®
MOO
m
NOT A GERMAN POWDER
mustdie:
«o« fouortous rawBUL
THE 6ROT WSEO DdrKßWr
■I
flies.
fleas
Bugs,
Woxiutas
II-
MUSTDIE
POWDER must not be mistaken for insecti-
cide. or common insect powders, some oi
which are sold under fancy names, fa:
“MUSTDIE” contains an ingredient par-
ticularly fatal to that common house pest
aptly termed “The Typhoid Fly.”
“MUSTDIE” is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers,
or forward 1/- in stamps to Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney
The Red Page
A Plot Competition
When the judges in The Bulletin’s First
Novel Competition were reporting on their
work they complained of the poverty of
most of the plots and suggested that greater
care should be taken in working out the
story before putting pen to paper. Now,
“plotting” is largely a matter of practice;
there are some people, of course, without
any imagination, tb whom the thing is next
door to impossible, but there are plenty
others who htive the gift without knowing
it. And a very precious gift it is, as those
who njad the coming serial, “A Rogue in
Amber,” will realise.
To encourafge the discovery and develop-
ment 1 of this gift The Bulletin decided t>o
seize the first opportunity of offering prizes
for the completion of an unfinished story;
and Mr. Cronin’s “Bracken” was chosen for
the purpose. It was thought best to offer
these prizes through the Woman’s Mirror,
which probably numbers more young people
among its readers than even The Bulletin
does. This was the plan. On Jan. 23 The
Bulletin would print the eighth instal-
ment of the story. There were then at least
five more instalments to come. Picking up
the story where it was dropped on Jan. 23,
how would you carry it on and end it? The
replies had to be limited to v “about 300
words,” and had to be dispatched before the
ninth instalment could possibly retffch the
competitor. For the 300 words prizes of £2O,
£lO, £5 and £1 were offered.
So far at any rate as entries go the com-
petiti'on has-been an astonishing success. No
less than 710 entrifes have been received,
anti the work of judging them is now well
in hand. Within a fortnight the prizes
should be awarded. The Bulletin will
then pfint some of the suggested conclusions.
As far as they have gone the judges
declare their job to be absorbing and to be
yielding some extraordinarily interesting
results.
THE YORICK
4.—Hengist Horne Letters.
[In this article Hugh MeCrae introduces the
hitherto unpublished letters of “Orion” Horne to
George Gordon MeCrae.]
In a prospectus (1S68) Messrs. George
Robertson and H. T. Dwight made the fol-
lowing announcement:
PARTING LEGACY of R. H. HORNE to AUSTRALIA.
In One Volume. F’cap St o. Price, 5s.
The publishers beg to state that Mr. R. H. Horne,
having expressed his intention of returning to
Europe in the course of a few months, was earnestly
requested to write some original narrative poem
upon an Australian subject, as a Literary Legacy
to the Colony. Mr. R. H. Horne hasvresided in
Victoria upwards of 14 years,; and having‘consented
to \VMtc the work in question, the story will be
illustrative of his experiences, not only in Melbourne,
Ballarat, Castiemaine and other _great centres of our
present civilisation, but also in the wildest scenes
of the bush, among remote goldfields and isolated
settlers, and among the aborigines of the primeval
forests. The manuscript will be in the hands of
the printer in the course of a few weeks,. and the
woik will be published at Christmas, shortly before
Air. Horne’s departure from the colony.
One hundred and fifty copies are already subscribed
for. The number of copies of the Australian Edition
will be limited Comparatively to the number sub-
scribed for before printing.
The full title of the book was: “John
Ferncliff: an Australian Narrative Poem
in Three Cantos, with Other Poems.” Be-
ing selections commemorative of thoughts,
feelings and travels, extending over a period
of 40 years.
Horne, who had taught MeCrae how to
etch, chose him illustrator for the “parting
legacy to Australia”; but he had difficulty
in making his protege do what he wished.
MeCrae was dilatory; and diffident —for,
although he drew ships commended by
Brierly, his knowledge of the human figure
was not profound.
Horne, issuing decrees from Parnassus
(Trentham, Blue Mountain), girded against
the conditions of his governmental job
Mii'ch made it necessary he should remain
in the bush; often he was Jupiter “with the
wind bp”; but, towards the end, he always
twinlcled in peace.
* Sr * V
Feb. ll/’68.
If you are not passing Dwight’s in a day
or two, please forward enclosed note by post.
It contains an order for him to lend you
the poem (to be called for) of “John Fern-
cliff,” with instructions not to mention the
circumstance.
For fear of accidents, please do not take
the MS. except on some dtyf ifahen you are
going straight home.
Here follows a Table of Complaints:—
Feb. ll/m
I hope none of your sketches have mis-
carried ! In a previous^ note you say, “I
send the sketch” —referring to the one I
asktd you to return me, with a copy of it
for the Prince [this was written during the
visit of II.M.S. Galatea], and in -your last
note. Feb. 8th, f you dhy. “I send you a few
rough sketches herewith”; but none lias
arrived in either case. The last I received
were the red buoy [an illegible word] and
the Sphinx, which I acknowledged.
Undated :
When you return the sketches to me, for
I Icaven-Earth-and-Sea sake do not roll them.
Why do you roll sketches? It takes weeks
of big-book pressure to get them flat again;
and they lie in just the sWie bulk, as tb
weight, when flat, or very nearly.
_ , McQuirk’s Cottages,
Robe-Street, St, Kilda (undated).
I am not yet in despair'about your copper-
plates, but I do begin to feel it coming on.
I know it by a pain in my stomach. A
green and fuzzy melancholy is gradually
overcoming the surface of my hopes. I had
expected by this time to have seen at least
my frontispiece of characters in black.
Often Horne is curiously whimsical; and.
in one letter we find him asking McCrae
for the picture of a he'insists
must have her bow turned towards the
right, on copper. “It will print as running
to the left; and, somehow, this will look
more like the voyage out here!” “I shall
interpolate a stanza for the icebergs. (But
are icebergs ever seen on the outward
voyage? I saw none.)”
It is sad to think that, in spite of the
trouble he took, Horne never got the illus-
trations for “John Ferncliff.”
Yet his pen did not allow him to shew
any rancor; and the last epistle from
Trentham lifts him above the rut, unresent-
fully smiling:—
Excuse headstrong haste,
Trentham, Blue Mountain.
Oct. 27/’6S.
What am I to think, or believe, or imagine
from your prolonged silence? It has been
said by more than one person that you ar.‘
gone to China, and have come out in “gen-
teel comedy*’ at Owang-Woo or Yellow Sea
with great />clat of gongs and crackers. But
it is also whispered that you have fallen in
love with a fair rope-dancer; and I grieve
to add that it is more than intimated that
the object of this sudden passion is a Japan-
ese lady, celebrated for her “slack perfor-
mances,’’ and admired for her strange stock-
ings (evidently not made to be washed), and
for wearing Punch's hump much too low
down.
What less than these things can have
caused you to fly from the maternal and
sororal bower—abandoned the fine arts—
deserting poor Ferncliff and his surroundings
—and preserving a silence at once ominous
and alarming?
However, “Know all men by these pre-
sents” —not meaning a wild turkey and
domestic sausages at Christmas—but that
your forgotten friend and poet intends to
resign his billet in these forests on the 31st
day df next December. He will come to
Melbourne —thence drive to St, Kilda— s atid
llidnce, as early as possible, he will “go
to the place from whence he came,”
then hang out (his banners on London Wall)
till hV be dead.
Two letters from London:
32 Northumberlahd-st. West. London.
June 11/’72.
My Dear McCrae. —Having an opportu-
nity of the kind hand of a friend, I forwmrd
you a copy of each of the publications which
may be said to be my property—the Library
Edition of “Orion” and the 2nd Edition of
“The Poor Artist,” being the property (at
present) of their respective publishers. It
gives me much pleasure to find you thinking
so highly of my writings on “mature con-
sideration,” as_ this is not the commonest
thing in the world. As to your obtaining
any of my works (reprinted since my return
(Continued on page 5.)


Ar-'y.
mx/,^
mm
sK?4V;
O .-&S
The “Squatter” Stock Saddle,
built on best steel-plated tree.
With hogskin or rough out-
sunken seat. Bag pads, capped
knee-pads, Victoria panel,
skeleton flaps.
Price
£6/10/-
ip»
1 : v:
r&i
'.Mm
mm
The “Kemp” pattern Park
Saddle. Built on best steel-
plated tree, allover kip, leather
points to panel, full skirt, Vic-
toria facings. Price . . £B/-/”
Similar saddle with hogskin
seat. Price £B/57-
Fittings on the above
I
The “Wieneke” pattern Stock
Saddle, with kip seat and flaps,
capped knee-pads, Victoria fac-
ings. Extra long skeleton flaps.
Specially selected tree.
Price £9/-/“
Saddles 22/9 extra.
“Truth in Advertising,” the foundation stone of honest trading
laid by Anthony Horderns’
Anthony Horderns’
Superior Quality Saddles
at Lowest Possible Prices
Built to give Comfort and Long Service
a / r •.• . ;-.,n.;
*,vS7 r
W...
The “Queensland” Park
Saddle. Built on steel-plated
tree, hogskin seat and knee-
pads. Extended girth straps.
Solid leather points to panel,
Victoria facings.
Price £6/5/-, £B/5/-
ďf
d
Boys’ Saddles. Made with
hogskin seat, plated tree, bag
knee- and thigh-pads or roll
knee-pad. Made to stand
rough wear and give long ser-
vice.
Price 83/6
Fittings, extra 11/6
df
Ladies’ Astride Saddles. Made
with plated tree, hogskin seat
and pads and Victoria panel.
This saddle is specially de-
signed for women to give
utmost comfort.
Price •£*>/-/-
Fittings, extra 13/6
m
m
m
Stock Saddle, with hogskin
seat, bag pads, plated tree.
Price £4/8/-
Fittings, extra 13/6
“Universal” Stock Saddle, with
hogskin seat and pads.
Price £5/7/6
Fittings, extra 13/6
d
Park Saddle. Roll pad, hog-
skin seat and bag pads. Plated
tree. Price £4/8/-
With pair web girths, stirrup-
leather and stirrup-irons, extra
13/6.
The “Clarence” Park Saddle.
Price £5/-/-
Fittings, extra 13/6
Reliable Trotting Hopples
ELC
Trotting Hopples.
Designed especially
to prevent horses
from breaking when
trotting. Made from
strongest pliable
leather.
Prices: £4/4/-,
£4/10/-, £5/2/6,
£5/7/6.
Use Our Deposit-Purchase System
Why not secure your needs on our Deposit-Purchase System
and pay for them at your own convenience? A big outlay
is unnecessary, and you have the advantage of Anthony
Horderns’ “Famous Low Prices.” Simply select the goods
you require, leave a small deposit and pay the balance in
instalments to suit yourself. Goods are delivered
when final payment has been made. Remember, no interest
or extra charge whatever is made. In fact, you pay the cash
price only.
Dept., Ground Floor. Free delivery in City and Suburbs only.
OPEN UNTIL 9 P.M. EVERY FRIDXY
ďfd
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED,
SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.


%£ trio^t PERCUSSION
OIL DRILLING PLANT
A\ ; .
XvXf
w \ \/
'■ \A \
/ V\
\\
\ \
\ a'
\ X
<
m
//
m
M
ill
0;
X v?
&
>
V \
Sfl
m
xrmm. m
iw-'-mA
WBP
igpllffl m, WmWr*
0 t//////’//://.■>.
x
OXO
•fe;
X
v .
/✓'
\
\ \
V -!
/ /// /
SV 0 / /
?"/ // / j
Uj: '.' /
mt.
Z/
m.
w, %
«
?.XIJX
vm *
W," ///A
Application
for Shares
Write, call or ’phone, or
fill in and post Coupon
to Belford Dome, Ltd.,
Brook House, 1 7 O’Con-
ne 1 1 Street, Sydney
(’Phone 85338), or
Belford Dome, Ltd.,
Temple Court, 422-28
Collins Street, Mel-
bourne (’Phone F 5445),
for attractive illustrated
brochure giving full
particulars and contain-
ing Form of Application
for Shares.
Bedford is in the jamous Hun-
ter Valley, near Singleton,
N.S. IV., on the Great Northern
line, only 38 miles Jrom New-
castle.
HPO discover Oil and Natural Gas on Belford Dome
all the elements for success are present:
1. A thorough and complete geological
survey has revealed the fact that Belford
Dome is “the most promising source of oil
discovery in the Commonwealth” (vide
London “Financial Times,” 24/1 /*27).
2. The world-renowned firm of Vickers-
Armstrongs, Ltd., has excelled itself in
supplying to Belford Dome the finest per-
cussion drilling plant that has ever reached
these shores.
3. No effort has been spared to procure the
best equipment money can buy, and to
secure the services of the highest skilled
oil-drilling expert it is possible to obtain—
Mr. L. McKillop, late of Anglo-Persian
Oil Co.
%
The above Factors
Practically Guarantee Success
Never before has such a unique combi-
nation of favorable conditions been pre-
sent in any Australian Oil proposition.
Belford Dome is recommended to investors
with the utmost confidence.
Boring Will
Commence in April
Second Issue of Shares
will definitely close on 15th April
ďfd
LIMITED
Brook House,
17 O’Connell Street,
SYDNEY. 85338.
Temple Court,
422-23 Collins Street,
MELBOURNE. F 5445.
Please send me full particulars of Belford Dome, together
with your new illustrated brochure.
Name
Address
Bulletin, 20/2/’29.


AT THE TWO MEN’S SHOPS OF DAVID JONES
Ready-made Sac Suits
I
m
. g
;v
s -
: 1
urn
A A
m
m *
z
MODELLED ON
CORRECTLY
FITTING ENGLISH
LINES.
They’re just the Suits
well dressed men will
wear this Autumn.
Meticulously tailored
in David Jones’ own
workrooms from se-
lected high-grade Wor-
steds.
In the new fancy stripe
designs of grey, brown
or fawn. They’re
Suits that will fit any
figure.
PRICE
£7/15/-
OBTAINABLE AT THE LOWER GROUND FLOOR NEW STORE
OR BRANCH MEN’S SHOP, OPPOSITE G.P.O.
DAVID JONES’
to England) in Melbourne or other parts
of Australia, you need never expect it in so
far as the booksellers are concerned, the
London publishers refusing to send any
books (of the Art class or philosophical) to
Australia unless they are previously ordered.
They say the Australians are a fast (t)
and oblivious people —not in those words,
but to that purport. I say it in those words:
buf certainly, this d-oes not apply to my
personal friends in Australia, whom I reyard
among my most sincere and unforgettmg
friends. ,
With kind regards and compliments to
your wife,
I am, my dear McCrae, yours ever,
It. H. Horne.
From the same address:
Many thanks for the news about the half-
mad Bureaucrat, Brough Smyth. What a
condition for any public office to be in! Io
me he was very courteous —sympathising —
not sympathising obliging—irritating—in-
consistent —hypocritical—most unfriendly—
officially exacting—and (too late) rather
regretful. A damned Jack-in-Office —yet
one of various attainments —and I almost
pity his fall. . ,
During my five years’ banishment on the
Blue Mountain I came down now and then,
of course, on leave of absence, haying left
a locum tenens to attend to my duties. But
it never happened that on the very next
day of my arrival at St. Kilda, as I sat
in my hermitage, either at breakfast or in
the evening, contemplating my grape-vine
and Virginia creeper and passion-flowers
anil taking my breath for a new lease of a
few days—never did it happen without my
receiving official despatches transmitted from
the Blue Mountain calling for returns or
replies or reports (generally quite unneces-
sary and useless) which Brough Smytli
knew well my substitute could not make, and
which would go far to destroy my time and
peace of mind during the first week, at least,
of my “leave” ! There was an official wretch
for you!— one who seemed to understand
poetry and professed sympathy and admira-
tion ! There was a work-maker —the sta-
tioner’s best friend!
And yet I can pity his fall!
Ristori deserves all you say and suggest of
her. I am glad she expressed her pleasure
at your poetry. Your version of the noise
of the mob at Versailles as produced by
Madame Ristori’s company deserves to be
preserved as a record, and a poetical one.
I am very much obliged by all the papers,
scraps and maps, etc., you send me about
New Guinea. .
In England during the last two months
and a half we have had most shocking un-
seasonable weather. All of May up to this
day (the 14tli) we have had a most bitter
n.-e. wind that had fixed colds and coughs
for almost everybody, except those who have
escaped by dying from bronchitis. Pleasant!
I wish I could afford always to fly from
England during the “spring” of. our lying
poets. Possibly it was different in the time
of Chaucer, Spenser, etc.
I remain, with kindest regards and remem-
brances to all friends.
Yours truly,
R. H. H.
In Defence of Essex Evans
Cecil Mann (R.P. 30/l/’29) challenges
the right of Essex Evans to a place in the
Australian Pantheon of Poets. That is all
right if the challenge is supported by legiti-
mate argument; but Mr. Mann fails to
produce that. On the contrary, he storms
like some young dogmatic iconoclast of
a W.E.A. class, mistaking prejudice for
judgment and denunciation for criticism.
In doing so Mr. Mann sadly depreciates
his own status as a critic. Either he does
not know the essentials of criticism or he
stamps himself as unfair, because he
endeavors, by quoting some admittedly bad
lines, to hold up Evans to ridicule as
merely a doggerel rhymster. But if he will
tell me his favorite Australian poet I will
undertake to find some lines, especially if
there is a collected edition, that are equally
as bad as those with which he would con-
demn Evans; further, he will find some
deplorably bad lines in Burns and Tenny-
son and Wordsworth and Browning. But
the critic of a reputable paper like The
Bulletin, a paper that has done, and is
doing, a great service for Australian litera-
ture, should not lash himself into a frenzy
and attempt to judge poetry by its weakest
lines. He ought to judge it by its general
conception, by its atmosphere, its clarity,
its color and its message. Mr. Mann must
admit he has not done that.
Further, and this is very important,
he must not ignore the poet of a nation;
and Evans was as unquestionably the poet
of Australia in the later ’nineties and the
early days of the present century as Ken-
dall was of the ’seventies and the ’eighties.
He never had the time to brood over his
lines like Gray meditating over the immor-
tal Elegy, nor had he some friendly Archi-
bald deftly filing away the rough edges of
his rhymes. But in days when weak hearts
were beating feebly and parochial discord
was threatening to engulf the vision splen-
did of an approaching Federation, Evans
took over the trumpet from the aged hands
of Brunton Stephens and blasted out his
message of dauntless courage and heroic
sacrifice. In that he combined the vision
of a poet and the foresight of a statesman.
When the “Secret Key” was published
by A. and R. 23 years ago, Courtney of the
London Daily Telegraph gave it a column
of enthusiastic praise, and Ker was equally
generous in the Spectator. But perhaps
Mr. Mann would say their criticism was
“grandiloquent when it is not mere non-
sense.” Of course, it may be that, like
the new school of highbrow critics, he
would debar patriotic verse from the field
of real poetry. But Homer and Aeschylus
and Sophocles, Virgil and Horace, Dante
and Petrarch, Shakspeare and Milton, and
Wordsworth and Tennyson all wrote a
good deal of patriotic poetry; and if Evans
is to be outclassed for that reason Cecil
will find much work for his plue-pencil in
sub-editing the poetry of the world.
Our poetry must be judged by the uni-
versal standards. I ask for no protective
duties on art and literature; and on that
basis I am prepared to find a place for
Evans among the patriotic poets of the
language. Courtney and Ivor were willing
to do the same thing; and probably men
like MacCallum, Tucker, Strong, Murdoch
and Stable, all professors of poetry, would
be willing to undertake a similar job.
FIRMIN McKINNON.
A Satchel of Books
Forget-me-not and Lily of the Valley, by
Maurice Baring (lleinemaun). A charming
reprint of the ticklesomc children’s story
that was first published in 1909, with the
amusing drawings in color retained. A
choice little book for small folk.
Animals in Black and White, by Eric Fitch
Daglisli (Dent). This is a series of six
books, of which “Larger Beasts,” “Smaller
Beasts,” “Larger Birds” and “Smaller Birds”
are the first to appear. Each holds a collec-
tioh of unusually fine woodcuts, with an
interesting descriptive note opposite each
woodcut. The books are tip-top for children,
but their appeal is much wider than that,
owing to the high merit on the artistic side.
Best Short Stories of 1928; American,
edited by Edward J. O’Brien (Cape; Boy-
croft). Usually the stories in this annual
collection, owing to their inagaziny nature,
do not gain by comparison with the British
collection gathered by the same editor. This
year’s lot are much nearer the mark. Nearly
all are short stories in the strictest sense of
the term, and two or three soar high above
the average.
Surrender, by J. C. Snaith (Dodder and
Stoughton). A readable yarn in the "Beau
Geste” manner of the. wanderings of two
escapees from the Foreign Legion in French
Africa. The author makes his heroes travel
in three years from Sidi Bel Abbas, in
North Africa, to Damacsus, and then “by
the Red Sea and the breadth of Syria to the
Nile,” and thence to Khartoum and Cairo —
a sufficiently astonishing geographical feat.
The Struggle for the Freedom of the Press,
by William H. Wickwar (Allen and Unwin).
The author, who springs from a family which
for generations has been printing, binding
or publishing books, has also behind him a
dazzling scholastic career. He has not
attempted any fine writing here, but has man-
aged a lucid and comprehensive history of
the varying fight that was waged chiefly in
England between 1819 and 1832 to set the
press on the way to becoming the free in-
stitution it is to-day. The fight was agairist
Government and Church, and the victims
who fell on what was eventually the winning
side numbered transportation as convicts
among their rewards. From a literary point
of view an exceptionally interesting phase
of the struggle is the use that was made of
the Muse in the fight. All round, it was a
great scrap—as told here, nearly as in-
teresting as a prize-fight.
Karl Marx's "Capital,” translated by
Eden and Cedar Paul (George Allen and
Unwin). This new translation, published
at 12s. 6d. net, is much superior to the only
other one this reviewer knows. It is based
on the fourth and definitive edition of Book 1
of “Das Kapital,” and is most carefully
edited, with a comprehensive index and notes
that almost equal itself in bulk. What is
more, it is a “literary” translation in so
far as the original permits it to be, and.
though it cannot be rated a “popular” render-
ing, it can be read without risk of mental col-
lapse A neat binding of the close-on 1000
well-printed pages completes what is very
good value for the money, even adding the
few shillings extra that are charged in Aus-
tralia.
Prelude to Battle, by Manfred Gottfried
(Chapman and Ilall). This novel is written,
on the publisher’s authority, by a young
American who, on a visit to Venice, became
interested in the story of Genghis Khan, the
Tartar warrior who founded the Mogul dyn-
asty. The story, which purports to cover
Genghis Khan’s earlier career, was apparently
entered upon by the tourist armed with a
copy of Marco Polo’s travels and some of
the less restrained works of Janies Branch
Cabell. It is a readable if rather inconse-
quent tale of fighting, intrigue and females
especially females —and we leave Tamugin,
who is later to become Genghis (in another
volume presumably), setting his face west-
ward in a tour of conquest with his Tartar
following, and apparently leaving behind him
for good the numerous females with which
the liberal-minded author has associated him
in the earlier pages.
Adam’s Opera, by Clemcnce Dane (Heine-
mann). Miss Dane accepts the late Wood-
row Wilson as a saviour of mankind, and of
what he typifies she makes Adam, leading
character of her brilliantly crazy play. Adam,
who is a prince, finds his way, via the
briar hedges, into the old fairy story-house
of the Sleeping Beauty. With him come
Tom Tiddler and Tom Fiddler and the noise
of the muddling world, expressed by news-
boys, wireless and others. Beauty (who is
Peace) is wakened, to the consternation of
Mrs. Grundy and some more ; but the saviour,
because of inherent deficiencies and the
opposition and indifference of the world, fails
in his self-made mission, and Beauty goes
to sleep again as she had done many times
before: in other words the saviour leaves
the world where he found it. The term
“brilliantly crazy” is no hyperbole. The play
is chiefly worked out through a skilful usage
of famiiiar nursery rhymes, adapted with a
touch of genius, if not more than a touch.
Everything happens as fantastically as the
adventures of Alice, and yet the argument is
woven through the crazy fabric without a
break in the thread. It is a rare piece Of
imaginative literature. (The play was pro-
duced in London in December, with Marie
Lohr one of the strong cast.)
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun •
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Ethel F.: Keep going. It takes a lot of
practice to adequately express feeling... .8.T.M.:
No good, though there’s a note of sincerity which
is hopeful.... Lance B.: Well, you made a mistake.
The sonnet is a very hard form to score with ; be-
cause it is so conventional it must rustle with beauty
—must have mellow words and a stately fancy....
Poppy: As exercises they’re all right; now get some-
thing to say R.A.8.: A poor picture. And don’t
grieve so much over these poor hulks. It s better
to be a has-been than a never-was or -will-be
Peter Jones: Not quite. Both sets have more feel-
ing than meaning... .IIol: “Vampire” is unrelieved
gloom; “Maligned” travels on stilts that are always
threatening to spill it.... Hob II.: “Desert is
chaotic... .D.L.W.: ‘‘Wedded * has an idea , and
ideas are scarcer than cabbages. But see if you
can’t make it a bit less woebegone. Try, anyhow.
. ...A.S.: “Waves” are melodious repetition....
Bewise: Repetition without the melody.... Tam: You
go a long way round to get to a dry waterhole....
Pickax: “Pigs” more obviously derives from “hogs-
heads”. . . .E.S.R.: We can’t undertake to return
unaccepted paragraphs... .D.F.H.: Well enough done,
but done so often that the story now unwinds itself.
.... V.C.W.: One of those annoying things that won’t
go in the basket without a struggle Mary R.: It
patriotism were poetry, you’d wear a Laureate s
crown....T.T.G.: And alas all is not poetry that
rhymes. (P.S. On reconsideration we withdraw the
alas.) ... ,N.W.: Young man, “Mallareed” is rotten
verse; yet there’s atmosphere about it, and you ve
got an ear. If you practise we’ll be disappointed
if you don’t make a very acceptable Abo. poet.. • •
J.H.L.: “The Short Story,” by K. M. Albright
(13s 6d.) ; “The Art of Story-Writing,” by N. 0.
I'owier (Os’.) ; “Short-Story Writing for Profit,” by
M Joseph (Bs.) and “Handbook of Story-Writing,’
by B. 0. Williams (13s. 0d.)....T. Essbie- “Twv
Men” is well done; but it has been done m. often
that when the first line is written the stars of the
last line begin their little twinkling act... .Rof:
Such questions are so much better asked of the lady
herself Jessie I. D.: Mostly thought-echoes, and
not much beauty of expression Cave-in: Well, after
all, perhaps it’s better to be a good listener than a
bad talker.... Phyllis G.: It’s too lazy to live....
MCR. • Weak philosophy in weaker rhyme....
J.R.P.: Go on. You’ll do better.... Penn : Referred
to the most soulful Office flapper, who reports that
“if the gent can’t make love better than he can write
poetry he’ll die a bachelor”... .V.M.: Tired of the
whimsical drolleries of undertakers and the ripe humors
of funeral parlors... .P.M.: No demand for undiluted
sob-stuff .. W.C.T.: It opened promisingly, but you
seem to have got tired half-way through and let
the darned thing finish itself anyhow... .W.B. :
Cookies who pound each other’s stock and ribs leave
us unthrilled....P.B.: “Spilt Wine” is more like
capsized bilgewater. Before writing a murder story
it is well to know a little elementary law A.
Stack: “The Legacy” is the sort of thing a man
dreams in the dcadhouse of a bush pub ; and your
other offering is hardly less unconvincing R.O’R.:
We read it backwards first, in consequence of the
way you’d pinned the pages together, and then
frontways. It seemed to make little difference to the
sense G.P.: “A Brief for Matrimony” about as
flimsy as a paper serviette... .L-W.: The tardy
philoprogenitiveness of Boulter sticks in our giz-
zard. .. .F.T.: “The Mills of God” merely
made us grind our teeth T.S. (London).
“Clean Hands” unsuitable W.S.: It wont
do 8.C.: “Getting Even” is a musty old chest-
nut J.K.P.: Fooling hardly clever enough
P.C.C. : “The Moved Finger” gets this line —no more.
H.A.S.: The answer is in the negative....
K.A.J.: Dismally unreal.. • • H.A.R.8.: “Contraband
too full of technicalities to be intelligible. .. .Tar-
boy: Farce too broad Mundabunda: The Abrahams
brothers offered to plead guilty to the charges
against them, to accept all assessments made or to
be made, and to pay the Commonwealth £ 500,000,
with £lO,OOO costs added. This was accepted, and
£200,000 was planked down ; the balance, for which
security was given and which bears interest at ;>A
p.c., is being paid in instalments, the last of which
is due on Sept. 1, 192.9. /. .P.T.0.: Estimated popu-
lation of California, 4,000,000; of Los Angeles,
1,300,000; San Francisco, 640,000 ; Oakland,
300,000; Sacramento, 100,000... .M.T.P.: “Fantasy’
or fallacy? 11.H.E.: Sorry, again counted out
V. 8.: Idyll of apple-trees and white cows pleasant
hut unsuitable L.M.W.: Rejected with contumely
. ...H.T.H.: Decline to move Ben Hall’s bones....
Lai: “I set my heart and my mind on art, and I
gave that up, and then l lost him, too.” Still, you
will get over it if you are only 19 Anti-Cap:
Rubbish; Lukin belongs to an old Queensland family.
He is a Condamine man, and was at Gympie and
Charters Towers before the young lions of the strike
committee were thought of. .. .G.0.M.: The grave
at Faulconbridge is kept in order at the public cost.
Also there is a grant to the family of £2OO p.a
Apple I.: Dean Inge wrote that, did he? Well,
he ought to be told of Tasmania’s honorable score
of V.C.’s —probably the highest in the Empire ir.
proportion to population. Brown, Cherry, Dwyer,
Gordon, McDougall, McGee, Newland, Statton and
Whittle were all from the Speck. So were Murray
(who collected as well the D.S.O. and bar, the
D.C.M. and the C. de G.) and Gaby, although they
enlisted in Westralian battalions. Gaby’s heroism
is extolled by Rawlinson in a letter preserved in his
“Life.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.A.D.: Scores of dull persons were ahead of you
with that gag J.H.R.: No cash for your crayons.
. ...P.H.: Full of faults. .. .F.W.C.: As wooden as
the bat L.R.T.: No harm in persevering, but you
will have to persevere a lot. . . .F.E.: You’re enthusi-
astic, anyway....W.E.M.: And isn’t art a “bit of a
riddle” to you? W.8.H.: Hopeless.


ďf
&
■
s"'"'
m
>*&s
s?
m
:
I
i
1
m
' .
m
JmummmZ
m
y-
r
&
m
1 :,si.
:fe
jf i
> ■
V
-
d


The Bulletin
Vol. 50. —No. 2558.
February 20, 1929.
THE IDEAL.
“Business has been completely disorganised, shipping paralysed and traffic held up by the blizzard which is sweeping Europe.”— Cable.
AUSTRALIAN AGITATOR (to General Frost): “Hey, this is lovely. How do you do it?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
George Street, Sydney.
Victoria: ll'i-SO Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 21/9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London: S 6 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly; n months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d. ;
5 months, 7s.
To ANY address Overseas: 12 months, Ai 10s.;
6 months, 10s. Cd.; S months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
I'tji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: l/Oz. to 10oz., l\d. ;
each additional koz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., l\d.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: !,oz. or part thereof,
Id, I'.lsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED page literary ARTICLES . . 2, 5
a PLOT COMPETITION 2
“ORION” lIOItNE’S LIFE AND LETTERS 2
DEFENCE OF ESSEX EVANS 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
THE FRONT PAGE—By Leason 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
War Propaganda in Peace 8
A MOSTLY-DUD SINKING FUND 8
MORE TRUTH ABOUT SUGAR 8
NORTH-SOUTH RAILWAY—By W. W. Kill™
M.11.R.
Roads or Railways? ..9
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 9
POLITICS (with caricatures) .. .. .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. .'. n f 12
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. .. ..13
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS . . 14, 16
Is Cement Over-capitalised? .. ..14
SULPHIDE CORPORATION 14
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL INSURANCE . . 14
NEWCASTLE AND HUNTER STEAM . . 14
POVERTY POINT 17
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 17
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 19, 20
MAN ON THE LAND 22 23
PRIZES FOR FARMERS . . . . .’22
IS YOUR PLACE SHORT OF LIME? .. 22
Free Service Department . 24
SMOKE-OH 28
“BRACKEN”—a Serial 30, 50
PEN AND PICTURE 33
NEW MOVIES AND TALKIES . . . . 33
SPORTING (Illustrated) . . . . . . 35, 37, 39
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 40
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 42
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 43
Two Complete Stories
“BUILT I’ THE ECLIPSE,” by R. Exon
Butchart . . . . . . . . 44, 47
“IMAGINATION,” by Margaret Fane and
Hilary Lofting . . . . . . . . 49
VERSE 47, 50
“A ROGUE IN AMBER”
starts next week.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1929.
WAR PROPAGANDA IN PEACE.
The Arbitration Court was popular in
Australian Labor circles at the beginning
of the century and for 10 years before and
afterwards. This was an epoch when poli-
tical Labor not only had fine ideals, but
was imbued with a splendid unselfishness.
Parliamentary leaders who were still living
had witnessed, and in most cases felt in
their own domestic lives, the ravages of a
succession of great strikes, and were cast-
ing about for an alternative. The action
of the A.C.T.U. in declaring a boycott of
the Federal Arbitration Court is a denial
of this first principle of the Australian
Labor movement. Unhappily, it is more
even than that: it is a signal triumph, too.
for the agents of revolution whose staff
work has been so persistent and so adroit
in this country for the past 10 years.
It is enlightening, in this connection, to
compare their methods here in times of
peace with those of the belligerents in
Europe during the World War. When a
country goes to war on the grand scale it
depends for its life on convincing its people
that the enemy is an unspeakable criminal.
The American Lasswell states the position
without bias in his “Propaganda Technique
in World War”:—
“So great are the psychological resistances
to war in modern nations that every war
must appear to be a war of defence against
a menacing, murderous aggressor. There
must be no ambiguity about whom the public
is to hate. The war must not be due to a
world system of conducting international
affairs, nor to the stupidity or malevolence
of the governing classes, but to the rapacity
of the enemy. Guilt and guiltlessness must
be assessed geographically, and all the guilt
must be on the other side of the frontier.
If the propagandist is to mobilise the hate
of the people, he must see to it that every-
thing is circulated which establishes the
sole responsibility of the enemy.”
It was-in accordance with this old-estab-
lished rule, which has done sendee in every
national and religious war for at least 5000
years, that all the combatants between 1914
and 1918 accused one another of looting,
rapine, murdering prisoners, using forbidden
weapons, bombing women and children and
innumerable other atrocities. Simul-
taneously all those shabby frauds who
fatten on the miseries of their brethren were
heard arguing (where they were French
composers) that Mendelssohn, Wagner
and Strauss should never be listened to
again in France, or (where they were Ger-
man dressmakers) that German women
should never again wear Paris frocks. With
the end of the war this foolery ended. And
it was not long before intelligent folk all
over the world had become heartily ashamed
of the orgies of hatred into which they had
been betrayed.
The wire-pullers w T ho are behind the deci-
sion to boycott the Arbitration Court and
send 600,000 workers into action against the
nation and its laws and institutions are
exploiting the technique of the professional
war-mongers in every detail. And they are
playing for their own sordid hands just as
palpably as the war-parasites who masquer-
aded as patriots did. The enemy to-day
is the employer—usually, like his employee,
a decent, home-loving gardener or bowler
or cricket enthusiast, anxious that his em-
ployees should earn all they can economi-
cally, and eager to provide more employ-
ment, but presented for the occasion as a
fiend who would be glad to see members
of the proletariat starving in droves. And
now, added to that, we have the amazing
story that the Arbitration Court is behind
the heartlessness.
Sensible men had an excuse for being
deceived by analogous fairy tales a dozen
or more years ago. They were given no
chance to hear the case for the other side.
Fortunately there is no censorship in the
present war, and a cool examination should
satisfy most workers on which side lie strife
and ruin, and on which peace and pros-
perity.
A MOSTLY-DUD SINKING FUND.
After a comic-opera episode at the opening
of Parliament, when the Opposition per-
formed the simple old trick of refusing to
stonewall when expected to do so and left
an unready Cabinet stranded on the beach
without a bill to cover its nakedness, the
Bruce-Page Ministry got to work with its
Financial Agreement. This represents the
last stage in fixing up the arrangement by
which there is to be a permanent Loan
Council, and the Commonwealth and the
States are to borrow in harmony instead
of in discord, and the Commonwealth,
which is the six States, is to guarantee the
solvency of the six States, which are the
Commonwealth, and there is to be a sink-
ing fund which is to be equal to paying off
any debt in about 55 years from the date
when the sinking hound starts in pursuit
of the liability hare, and the Federal Trea-
surer is to pay £7,500,000-odd for 53 years
on account of the States’ interest bills in
lieu of the old subsidy, and to collect the
rest (including their share of the sinking
fund) from the States if it has luck. If any
of them says at any time that it hasn’t the
money, and tenders its lOU instead, it is
difficult to see what can be done except
take it and any similar document which
may follow. The Commonwealth can’t levy
a special separate tax on the defaulter, for
the Constitution forbids such injurious
differentiation. But should the States all
default it may put on a new general tax,
provided it can think of one.
Though the Bruce-Page device is new in
some important respects, a Federal sinking
fund for the redemption of the Federal
debt, Australian and foreign, has been in
existence for a long time. Into it are paid
half the profits of the Commonwealth Bank,
contributions from revenue (as much as
£3,111,216 in one year) and other items,
including our share of the Hun reparations.
This last, which began to appear in 1925,
is probably the only item which doesn’t
arrive in the shape of Australian paper
money, good only for local consumption.
Between June, 1919, and June, 1927, the
Federal bonds redeemed out of the sinking
fund amounted to £26,421,385, and when
the States also contribute (in paper
money) to the hoard operations will be on
a much larger scale. For the year just
closed the results were as follows:
Added to Federal Gold Debt in
London £19,644,858
Added to Federal Gold Debt in New
York 18,198,089
Total Addition to Gold Debt .... £37,842,947
Reduction of Paper Debt in Australia 4,781,589
Net addition to Debt £33,061,358
There are huge sums to be paid for in-
terest and sinking fund in London and
New York every year. They must be paid
either in gold sent from here, or in surplus
products (excess of exports over imports)
sent from here and turned into gold at the
other side. But the surplus is always the
wrong, w'ay nowadays, and during the half-
year just closed this land of insufficient
production and over-sufficient luxury was
about £22,000,000 (or £44,000,000 per annum)
short of meeting its obligations abroad.
The regulation process is to borrow more
gold in London and New York, and pay
the external creditor with his own specie.
The process of payment is illustrated by the
loan figures quoted above.
It has been suggested that the difficulty
might be met if the Government made a
compulsory purchase, with our own cur-
rency, of enough of our exportable produce,
and sold it abroad on its own account, and
met its liabilities with the proceeds. An-
other idea is to prohibit all non-essential
imports, and to produce the same result that
way. The figures quoted show that a paper
sinking fund has its uses, and very respect-
able uses, in reducing a paper debt here,
but that in reducing a gold debt, or paying
interest on a gold debt, or preventing the
increase of a gold debt abroad it is pure
dud. And the proposed enlargement of
the sinking fund may reduce the local debt
faster, and be a more irredeemable dud as
regards the foreign one.
The position is that there are two debts.
The bonds issued in Australia look reason-
ably safe, large as the amount may be,
having a serviceable sinking fund behind
them. The ones issued abroad look increas-
ingly doubtful, though great financiers
abroad may have their own pians for put-
ting the screw on the feckless debtor when
the time comes. It would be of interest
to know if the Government has any plans
for the future, apart from hoping that the
advances in London and New York may
turn up regularly. It didn’t invent the pre-
sent, situation, which arose in the time of
Hughes, and it is making some attempt to
introduce some kind of order into the chaos.
But an Australian Ministry which is work-
ing the only two external loan markets at
considerable pressure should think defi-
nitely of eventualities, lest it be taken by
surprise and fall with a wallop.
MORE TRUTH ABOUT SUGAR.
When Sir Benjamin Morgan visited Aus-
tralia last year he suggested that the
United Kingdom might take 300,000 tons
more sugar with an increase of about £3
in the preference. The man simply wanted
something to say, and he could not think
of anything better. Clearly he had no
authority to promise anything. In the pre-
vious year, however, we had a visit from
Mr. Ameuy. He certainly did have some
authority; but to the sugar-growers he
made no promises and no suggestions.
It is true that the British preference now
amounts to about £4 ss. per ton; it is true
that this year the net price for export sugar
will be about £lO per ton; and it is fur-
ther true that without cheap coolie labor
sugar could not be produced at anything
like this price.
About 530,000 tons of sugar has been pro-
duced in Australia this year, and the home
requirements are 340,000 tons. Thus the
surplus of 190,000 must be dumped upon
the world’s markets.
The Australian fixed price of £27 per ton
is intended to provide living rates to the
farmers and workers in the sugar industry
—and thus populate the northern country.
As there is plenty of vacant land, and no
other way to occupy it, a natural con-
sequence is the rush into cane-growing. The
great danger is that in a year or two over-
production will be so great that the whole
industry will collapse. Such a debacle would
be as bad for the country as a bank crash
or an old-time drought.
The whole trouble appears to lie at the
door of management; but not many people
realise where that door is. The Privy
Council of the industry is the Cane Prices
Board, which is satisfied to go on snoring
and let everything take its course. Strange
to say, the bulk of the cane-growers are
in favor of aggravating the menace of
over-production.
Much has lately been said about the
artificial conditions and the danger of re-
moving all subsidies and supports. Now,
the whole industry depends on artificial
supports, and if these should be withdrawn,
White Australia must contribute to the up-
keep of thousands of the Malay race in
Java. There is no possible way of com-
peting with labor at seven shillings a week
except by turning the clock back to the
old Kanaka days—and Australia will never
stand for that. '
There should not therefore be the least
fear of the withdrawal of Commonwealth
assistance. To hear some people talk you
would think that with the southern States
it was all money out, and that all the ad-
vantage came to the State of Queensland.
But just take these few things into con-
sideration: (1) As a sugar farm can be pur-
chased on very easy terms, the industry is
open to anybody; (2) in the sugar season
workers assemble from as far away as Mel-
bourne; (3) after the season, there is an
exodus of farmers and sugar-workers to
spend their money in the southern States;
(4) the collapse of the sugar industry would
be a great blow to the trade of Sydney and
Melbourne; (5) an empty fertile territory
like North Queensland would-be a menace
to the Commonwealth.
In all sugar-producing countries run by
white labor the industty is in some way
subsidised; and Australia must follow the
crowd. In England the subsidy amounted
to £l9 per ton in addition to the protection
of £ll 13s. 4d. per ton. The subsidy is
now £l3 per ton. In the United States
the sugar production of Porto Rico, the
Philippine Islands and other colored colonies
is admitted duty free. And still the people
of the United Kingdom cannot see their
way to offer similar encouragement to their
own flesh and blood. It is calculated that
in the sugar business the large-hearted
British Empire provides for the support of
500,000 people belonging to foreign nations.
This magnanimity is really splendid; but
no other country can be found to practise
it.
It has been suggested that with increased
efficiency over-production for Australian
needs would not matter—we could then
compete in the foreign market. But what
margin is there for improvement? Not
so very far back it took 10 tons of sugar-
cane to make one ton of sugar; last year
the most northerly factory, at far-away
Mossman, produced one ton from every 6f
tons of cane.
W.J.D.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Woman on the Land.
There is too much said about the city
flapper and too little about the country
mother. The urban dweller is apt to judge
our womenfolk by the short-skirted and
frivolous, if dainty, misses who crowd the
city streets and fill the theatres and picture
shows. To him these are typical of the
Australian woman. Of the woman on the
land, true breed of the pioneer mothers who
made Australia what it is. he knows prac-
tically nothing. It should do him and us
good, therefore, to hear from an oversea
visitor who comes fresh to our conditions
with a clear vision covering a wide area
that the Australian woman still preserves
the fine qualities of her forebears. Said Sir
Arthur Duckham, head of the British
Economic Mission that recently visited the
Commonwealth, in a message to the women
of the country: “In our travels throughout
Australia we have met women of all
classes, and we have been impressed that
everywhere the woman has come up to the
measure of her job, whatever it may have
been. In the back country they stand bv
their men, their family and their farm.
Without the women these areas could not
be developed.”
The tribute comes at a good time. The
average town-living citizen in his com-
fortable home, with its ever-increasing
means of lessening labor, reads with too
little insight of the devastation of lands
but lately won from the grip of the bush.
In the general view he loses sight of the
individual struggle; of men and their
women, side' by side, beating back the
flames from their homes won by years of
toil unrelieved by the pleasures and relaxa-
tions that are the commonplaces of the
city. No sooner do they fall back exhausted
with the fight against the enemy Fire than,
in this country of extremes, they have to
face anew the enemy Flood, it takes a
big heart, a never-faltering courage, to
stand up against the vicissitudes of life in
our back country.
All the sickliness of powder and lipstick
vanishes when the Backblocks mother
gathers her children behind her and stands
full-square with her man in the fight for
home and family. She has done it times
without number in the past; she did it last
week, magnificently; she is doing it some-
where to-day. There is no decadence here.
Again and again she starts anew the build-
ing of the home, this dauntless mate,
“Who, when I thought all light was out,
became
A lamb of hope that put my fears to shame.’’
♦
The North-South Railway.
Dear Bulletin, —Your correspondent “J.E.”
states that “for years past mean persons
have been urging that the Commonwealth
should tear up the agreement to construct
the North-South railway,” and it is evident
from his letter that he regards me as one
of these mean persons. Let me say that I
have never proposed to tear up any agree-
ment, nor have I heard of anyone else
doing so. Let me also point out that there
is no agreement to build the line at present
—it could be postponed for 50 years or
more without breaking any agreement.
If there is an implied agreement to build
it sooner I have never suggested that it
should be broken, but have advocated in
Parliament that, rather than waste the mil-
lions that the railway will cost without
any benefit to anyone except the very few
settlers in the locality, it would be far bet-
ter for the Commonwealth Government to
approach the Government of South Aus.
and endeavor to buy itself out of the agree-
ment, by either the payment of a fair sum
of money or preferably by constructing,
where necessary, a decent road (it is now
passable for the greater part of the way),
and building the necessary bridges acros-
the rivers and creeks en route, so that there
would be a trafficable motor-road to connect
the north and south railway termini.
If the people of South Australia who are
clamoring for the railway realised the hope-
lessness of their ever getting any benefit
worth mentioning from the railway, as
some of them do who have seen the country
through which it will pass, they would surely
consent to any reasonable modification of
the agreement such as I have suggested
rather than pay their share of the interest
on the millions which it will cost.
It is absurd for “J.E.” to suggest that
the Barkly Tableland is a myth, or is
situated in Queensland. It is clearly marked
and defined on the Northern Territory
maps, and he will find it in the part of the
Territory where it is marked if he will go
and look, as I did.
It is also absurd to estimate the annual
loss on the railway if completed at £3lO
per mile, which was the loss in 1927 on the
two “incomplete fragments.” As the 600
miles between these “incomplete fragments
would, if constructed, be so much further
from Adelaide or Darwin, the freight on
cattle (and there is practically nothing else
to carry) would be so heavy that very few


Once upon a time Big Fat
Feller got the lion’s share.
But at last Skinny Feller rebelled
And Wise Feller intervened .to stop alight.
Encouraged, Skinny Feller demanded more and more
Till at last Big Feller got fed up.
And then
AND THEN -!
would be trained, and there would inevit-
ably be a far heavier annual loss on that
portion of the line, —Yours faithfully,
W. W. Killed.
♦
The Barkly Tableland.
Dear Bulletin, —"J.E.” (B. 6/2/’29) seems
to find considerable difficulty in fixing the
location of the Barkly Tableland from a
number of contradictory atlases. Well, in
18S6, as a lad of 18, I assisted the late
David Lindsay and a party to survey and
fix the boundaries of the following cattle-
stations, among others which had been
leased and were then being stocked: Alex-
andria, Avon Downs, Brunette Downs, Cres-
well Downs, Eva Downs. All these were
on the tableland, whose boundaries are,
roughly, from Austral Downs, on the Ran-
kine River, up to the Nicholson Ranges
at the back of Boorooloola, and from Rock-
lands, near Camooweal, to Eva Downs, about
60 miles from the Overland Telegraph line.
Now, if “J.E.” will look at a good map,
with these points as a guide, he will see
that the tableland lies wholly within the
Territory.
As to the character of this big area.
After our survey was finished, I worked for
a year for Mac Donnell, Smith and Co.
on Brunette Downs, and found that most
of the tableland was a magnificent grazing
area of good grass with splendid water, such
as Lakes Sylvester and De Burgh, Anthony
Lagoon, etc. Moreover, the aborigines of
the district (Wargiai, Wombiah and War-
ramung tribes) assured me that the waters
were permanent.
In my 60 years I have visited nearly every
part of Australia. For years I punched
cattle on Queensland stations, and later
I put in years prospecting over Central
Australia, during which I saw quite a lot
of the country from a stately camel’s back.
Some of the country wouldn’t keep a goat
to the square mile; other areas were medium
to good. Further, on these good areas the
aborigines were numerous, the old bucks
had no tales of past droughts, and there
were not any of those gaps in the ages of
the children or adults which indicate bad
times. I, therefore, consider the present
drought in Centralia to have no parallel
in living memory. Still, nowhere in this
continent have I seen better grazing
country than the Barkly Tableland, and
from this experience I consider that the
North-South line should be completed,- as
well as a line built to serve the tableland.
Both are necessities which have been
neglected too long. In conclusion. I voice
the opinion of most of the old Territory
men I know in thanking The Bulletin for
its fight to get the North-South line com-
pleted, and thus fill a national need, and
also end the rotten deal S.A. has had in
this matter. —Yours, etc., George S. Lindsay.
O
The Slaughter of Centralian Blacks.
“Tamata”: As one w 7 ho has had consider-
able experience of armed conflict with
primitive peoples in the way of duty, I
feel it is only voicing general opinion to
say that the report of the board which in-
quired into the killing of 31 Centralian
aboriginals does not give satisfaction to
those with a knowledge of the subject.
The board has exonerated the police and
their civilian reinforcements, but to many
the killing of 31 natives carrying no arms
but spears, boomerangs and tomahawks by
a party equipped with modem firearms
would indicate an excess of zeal, even in
self-defence. There seems to have been no
question of beating off a dangerous night
attack, or any similar onslaught calling for
“no-quarter” methods. It is incredible to
the writer that any party of Australian
aboriginals with a knowledge of the capa-
city of firearms w r ould have pressed home
an attack calling for such drastic slaughter
as that admitted by the police officials in
their report, and condoned by the board.
4
Roads or Railways?
The Auditor-General of South Aus., re-
viewing the finances of that debt-laden and
industrially-distressed State for the year
ended June last, drags from the secret lair
in which politicians have hidden it the
knotty problem of roads versus railways.
With the advent of the motor-car a de-
mand has arisen for smooth, hard-surfaced
roads, costing anything up to £lO,OOO a mile
to construct and up to £lOOO a mile per
year to maintain. In the days of Dobbin
road-making was a much cheaper and
simpler sort of business. Had South Aus-
tralia remained in the comparatively motor-
less state in which it lived in 1910, the
Auditor-General computes its expenditure
on roads last year, allowing for the increase
in population and the decrease in the pur-
chasing power of money, would have been
£935,000. The motor having arrived, the
cost was £2,335,000, an excess of £1,400,000,
to which motorists, through license fees and
special taxation of various sorts, contri-
buted £537,000, leaving the general com-
munity to find £863,000. Of this amount
the State contributed £574,000, the Federal
Government £281,000 and owners of horse-
drawn vehicles £8000—“in effect,” says the
Auditor-General, “a bonus to owners of
motor-cars used for luxury or convenience.
South Australia’s railway system, the
earning power of which is undoubtedly im-
paired by motor competition, returned in
the last financial year £557,000 less than
was required to meet working expenses,
maintenance charges and interest. As the
Auditor-General remarks, “the State is sub-
sidising motor transport to the extent of
more than £500,000 per annum to the great
embarrassment of its own railways.” It may
be computed, therefore, that the provision of
special roads for motor traffic is costing
South Australia something in the neighbor-
hood of £1,000,000 a year more than
motorists, as such, contribute to the State’s
revenue.
The Auditor-General figures that it would
require a tax of per gallon on all
petrol used in the. State in addition to pre-
sent special taxes to recoup the State for its
extra expenditure on roads due to the
advent of the motor. If to the State’s
extra road expenditure is added the amount
of the Federal subsidy and the State’s rail-
way deficit, a tax of Is. a gallon would be
required. In Britain, where the railways are
not a State liability, petrol is taxed at 4d.
a gallon and motor vehicles at £1 per horse-
power per annum. Australian States are
debarred by the High Court’s interpretation
of the Commonwealth Constitution from
imposing petrol taxes. The Auditor-General
declares that this “deprives the State of the
power to raise sufficient funds for road pur-
poses by an equitable method.”
The large question of equity as applied
to this particular problem remains unsolved,
partly because, so long as loan money is
plentiful, there is no political necessity for
Governments to get hot and bothered over
it, and partly because motor vehicles serve
so many purposes in these times that it is
very difficult to assess their economic value
to the community. But, while awaiting the
result of the struggle, Australia might pon-
der on the fact that, whereas a train can’t
go anywhere without rails, a motor vehicle
can function on almost any sort of a road
—which is another way of saying that there
is no pressing economic necessity to con-
tinue the conversion of negotiable highways
and byways into racing tracks.
♦
An Experiment in Eugenics.
From an Australian who is doing research
work at Cambridge:—
The Bulletin (24/10/’2B), dealing with
“An Experiment in Eugenics,” misses a point
in connection with the American Jukes
family. The facts of the case are these.
A young man of a good New York family
named Jukes joined up to fight in the Ameri-
can War of Independence, and just before
leaving his home to fight got entangled
with a feeble-minded servant girl. From this
union is sprung that branch of the Jukes
family which to-day costs the State of New
York so many thousands of dollars annually
either through their maintenance in gaol or
asylums or through poor relief. When the
war was over the young man married, and
the offspring of that union, with their de-
scendants, have been a credit to America.
The point is that it needs only one feeble-
minded ancestor to give rise to a long line
of feeble-minded descendants, who are also,
unfortunately, very prolific. They sometimes
throw back, however; so that it would sc'em
that the original Jukes sometimes crops up
in his descendants, only to be again sum-
merged in a succeeding generation.
*
Mandate or Mau?
The coterie which instigated the veiled
rebellion against the mandatory in Samoa
has evidently been encouraged by the
change of Government in’ Maoriland to
revive its activities. The principal in the
movement, which is known as the Mau, has
been applying for re-admission to Samoa,
from which he and his confreres were ex-
pelled, and there has been a recrudescence
in Samoa itself of the Mau opposition to
constituted authority which was fast fading
away. By way of settling all doubts, Joseph
Ward, now at the head of affairs in Maori-
land, has made it commendably plain that
he is no more inclined to tolerate any
attempt by the Mau to subvert authority
than his predecessors:—
“The Samoans must understand that any
failure to observe the law will be punished,
and that the Government must act rigorously
in this direction should future events un-
happily render it necessary.”
That should clear the situation. The
M.L. Government has now behind it the
dictum of the League of Nations committee
which inquired into the allegations against
Maoriland’s conduct of its mandate in
Samoa. The League found that the only
blame attachable to the mandatory was for
its foolish leniency, and pointed out that
it not only had the right to “put in the
boot” if it considered the circumstances
demanded it, but that the League expected
it to do so, for the sake of good order and
discipline.
V
The Irelands of Europe.
<: H. Singemoine’s” conclusions after touring
the Continent: —
It is amusing for one who remembers the
sanctimonious tones in which the French
urged England to give the Boers and, later,
the Irish Home Rule to read the cabled news
that “the nation is behind Prime Minister
Poincare in his determination to impose
French culture on the reconquered province
of Als^lCG. ,,
I was in Strasburg last April, and found
it in many respects like pre-war Dublin. The
natives are no more French than the Irish
are English. They are Alsatian. There is
a party corresponding to the Sinn Fein
group; its 1 members call themselves Autono-
mists. There is a religious question, a
language question, an economic question (due
to the determination of the true-blue pat-
riots to wreck everything rather than sub-
mit to a conqueror’s will), and all the
other appurtenances of a nation rightly
struggling to be free. The French refuse-to
take the advice which they have heaped on
the British time after time. So do the
Czecho-Slovaks, Roumanians and Jugo-Slavs,
who, backed by France, are tyrannising over
little Irelands of a million, 600,000 and
400,000 Hungarians respectively. Yet the
most conspicuous political lesson of modern
times is that the one and only way for a
Power to hold on to a dependency in search
of its freedom is to offer it freedom. Honor
is thereby satisfied, and horse-sense is allowed
a hearing.
The horse-sense of all these disputes is
that the day of the unprotected nationette
is as nearly over as the day of the unpro-
tected little ship. It is an age of combina-
tions, international as well as industrial,
when any desirable little State that is with-
out the backing of a friendly Power is likely
to be distracted by agitators while the world
is at peace, and invaded and ruined as soon
as it is at war.
*
Poison Gas in War. . ...
“J.K.P.”: “Gunner” declares (B. 30/l/’29)
that poison-gas is not of much importance
in warfare, and hopes Australia “will be
found praying hard that the foe will have
wasted the maximum amount of time” in
its manufacture.
In a recent lecture Major Humphries
stated that one bomb of concentrated mus-
tard gas can devastate a square mile of
territory; and under ideal conditions there
is no doubt it can.
The fault of “Gunner’s” reasoning lies
in his assumption that the next war will be
fought along the same lines as the war of
1914-18. The progress in aviation and the
development of the submarine make that
impossible. If war broke out to-day it is
almost certain America could not land
troops in Europe even if it wanted to.
It is very unlikely that future war§ will
be decided by armies facing each other on a
field of battle; or by navies starving a
nation to subjection by cutting off its food.
They will be decided swiftly, and ruthlessly,
by aircraft attacks on great centres, London,
Paris, Berlin, Sydney, as the case may be.
All a nation’s man-power will be required
at such centres to repel, if possible, these
attacks; and under such conditions gas-
bombs thrown from invisible, noiseless air-
craft will be a different proposition from
poison-gas squirted at one another by
soldiers only a few hundred yards apart.


JjydS VZPW
pMvmo -m
. •_
■£■•*■•*■■ jSSSSSSSSSi k
miniiiiiaiHliiiuu
■ ■■ iiiiaiaf ivibi an ■
liiiiiiiiiiii
4
iiijwWS
s ■
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Bruce-Page Ministry had an adven-
ture last Wednesday. Four of its supporters
were missing, one being in hospital as the
result of old war injuries. The Scullinites
wei’e present to a man. A motion about no-
thing in particular was brought on, and four
alleged Ministerialists, including Hughes,
changed sides. Defeat was averted by the
Speaker’s casting vote. It wasn’t much of
a business for a man of Hughes’s calibre to
be mixed up in.
The difficulty in
which the Common-
weal th Government
found itself arose from
its decision to veto an
award of the Public
Service Arbitrator,
whose generosity has
become disconcerting.
That gentleman
granted a special
allowance of £34 p.a.
to postal mechanics
and telegraphists at
Canberra. His awards
can be upset by either
House 1 , and the Gov-
eniment picked the
Senate as the safer
place. So Labor
moved in the Reps,
that the papei's be
pi-inted, and the fuss
was on. There being
a time-limit in these
matters, an astute
Whip could have
saved the situation by
talking for two min-
utes ; but Perkins was
too slow.
Public Service
Arbitrator Hunt.
The immigration figures for 1928 show
that Mussolini is honoring the agreement into
which he entered when it was put to him in
a friendly way that Australia was finding
the influx of his countrymen embarrassing.
The net migration of Italians was 6500 in
1927 —13 per cent, of the total excess of
arrivals over departures; it fell to 1352 (4.17
p.c.) last year, though the agreement did
not begin to operate until some months had
elapsed. In this matter, for one, the Bruee-
Pages have scoi-ed over the other side. They
have done well what insulting internation-
alists and bellicose advocates of disarma-
ment would have done badly.
During 1928 Australia made eight sepa-
rate visits to the pawnshops overseas, in-
cluding two for City of Brisbane loans and
one with a Sydney lOU. There were six bor-
rowings in London and one in New York.
The City of Brisbane went to both places,
and got the worse terms in New York. The
total new r debt incurred in foreign parts was
£35,000,000, and the new interest to be paid
is about £1,750,000 per annum. It took the
13 years from 1900 to 1913 to pile up an
external liability of that size.
Eamon de Valera, the Hispano-Irish insur-
rectionist, was sentenced to death on one
occasion and subsequently to life and to
various other things, but the only sentence
still standing against him is that he mustn’t
enter Northern Ireland. He went there the
other day and was arrested, and as he
annoyed the Bench by refusing to speak any
language but Irish, that authority called him
a play-actor and gave him a month. An
offer of release was treated with scorn.
Eamon is probably willing to break out as
he did at Lincoln in 1919, but if he is
forcibly put out he will take the ruins of the
gaol with him under his arm.
Sydney’s Civic Commissioners have come
in for criticism, but their good deeds should
not be forgotten. The
axe fell on the old
x-dgime before a con-
tract for three years’
supply of coal, 960,000
tons in all, could be
fixed up. A concern
which, as a Royal
Commissioner was pre-
sently to find, had
been a benevolent
patron of Labor alder-
men and their friends,
was the principal ten-
derer, its price for the
three years being 245.
a ton. The Commis-
sioners called for fresh
tenders, had tests
made, and got a year’s
supply of coal rated
higher in steaming
value than that
of the old crowd
at 225. 54d. to 235.
4d. Tenders for the
second year’s supply
show another substan-
tial reduction on the
price quoted to Tam-
many. “Minions of
Chief-
Commissioner
Garlick.
capitalism’ 1 the Com-
missioners may be to the kind of alderman
who banked his hoard under a loose floor-
board, but they have saved the citizens at
least £15,000 on coal alone.
In a speech denying that his Republic
made a profit out of the war, President
Coolidge said it was spending over a hundred
millions a year (pounds, not dollars) “in
meeting the solemn duty to the disabled and
the dependent.” This statement has
puzzled British and European critics, and
it is certainly bewildering. Australia lost
more men in battle than the U.S.A., and
it has at least tried to do the square thing
by the Diggers; yet war pensions cost it a
trifle under millions last year. The ex-
penditure on repatriation did not reach a
million. Perhaps Uncle gives pensions to
the heroes of all his war films.
Unless a pretext is found for spoiling the
work of the Boundary Commissioners, Men-
zies and Mt. Margaret will disappear from
the list of Westralian Assembly electorates
at the end of the year. In point of popula-
tion they are the smallest electorates in Aus-
tralia, if not in the world ; Menzies, on June
80, had 280 enrolled inhabitants (Canning
had 18,279) and Mt. Margaret 432. Gregory,
now M.H.R. for Swan, was member for
Menzies for 10 years, and George Taylor
has been Mt. Margaret’s representative since
it was created in 1901, as a Labor man till
1916 and as a Nationalist since. His favor-
ite reading since the last redistribution in
1911 lias been the Births, Deaths and Mar-
riages column.
The Prime Minister has given notice of a
bill for the establishment of a Bureau of
Economic Research, which doubtless means
that some individuals will be hired at con-
siderable expense to poke about among the
clouds and ask witnesses their views on this
theory and that. The new body will have
to compete with the Tariff Board, the Bureau
of Census and Statistics, the Council for
Scientific and Industrial Research and the
Development and Migration Commission, as
well as sundry Ministerial departments and
the recollections of Bruce’s Big Four. In
the Bureau and Commission line the Prime
Minister should be declared an habitual
offender.
The Queensland Reds, who argue that the
Government and the employer should find
everything free of charge for the masses,
whether the masses work or not, can claim
a comrade in Papua. A native sent by his
boss to buy stamps at Port Moresby post
office failed to account for the change.
He explained to the beak that he thought
the money laid on the counter by the official
was a present from Gubment to himself.
Port Moresby goal now harbors a dis-
illusioned political economist.
The great Hume dam, which is to hold
up the Murray just as Burrinjuck does the
Murrumbidgee, has reached the point at
which it begins to hold water. It has also
reached a doubtful stage. The estimated
cost was £2,288,100 in 1926. In 1927 it
was £4,563.100, and in 1928 it was
£5,872,637. The question is now asked if it
wouldn’t be better to leave the thing as it
is for an indefinite time, a modest lake with
a low rctaining-wall and serving a small
area. Where everything is done with loan
money every public enterprise is born with
a millstone of interest tied to its neck.
Another pastoralist returned last week
with the report that Australia, by letting
South Africa have the pick of its stud rams,
is raising up an increasingly formidable com-
petitor. Almost simultaneously J. F.
Guthrie told the Senate that when he went
into the trade the S’African clip was only
about 200,000 bales of short, rubbishy stuff;
this year, thanks to unrestricted purchase of
high-cla3S Australian rams, it will be nearly
900,000 bales of good and mostly fine merino
wool. And he asked whether the profit of
50 or 100 breeders was more important than
the welfare of the 80,000 families dependent
on wool-growing—more important even than
the nation’s economic future.
An inquiry instituted by the Development
and Migration Commission to decide how the
financial status of Tasmania can be im-
proved, and some subsequent efforts by a
“special committee” of sorts, led to this
illuminating paragraph in the press:—
A complete estimate should be made of wasted
assets such as railways closed for traffic, and there
should be a writing-off of obsolete rolling stock and
depreciation of rolling stock, trucks, structures and
machinery with u view to the reduction of the rail-
way capital account.
In 1926-27 and 1927-28 the Tasmanian
lines didn’t even earn working expenses. This
wasn’t because they were unfinished works
in an undeveloped country like the South-
to-North enterprise, and had a visible future;
they constitute an old system in a well-settled
State, and have a past. But unfortunately
nothing can be really written off except by
paying something off. All this talk of
writing-off is mudheaded.
Home Affairs Minister Abbott aims at turn-
ing the North and Central Australia police
force into an imitation of Canada’s North-
West Mounted show. It is suspected that
he got the idea from the musical-comedies
in which North-West Mounted braves —-from
Fitzroy—slap their thighs and sing some-
thing about moose and ptarmigan in the
intervals of fondling ballerinas; still, if the
young man sees that his bobbies are decently
housed, as he undertakes to do, that will
be something. At present some of them are
living in bark humpies little better than the
gunyahs of abos. Not one has a decent
home. So they don’t marry and bring up
little bobbies in the Neglected Land.
W. J. McWilliams, w-ho led the Federal
Country party in the
last Parliament of
which he was a mem-
ber, distinguished him-
self on his return to
the House by voting
against > the Govern-
ment in which his old
party has four Min-
isters. A politician,
off and on, for 35
years, he has never
known the sweets of
office. Possibly lie
will get his first taste
of them in a Ministry
headed by Hughes, the
ex-Labor Nationalist
of sorts, with the ex-
Cocky Stewart and
the ex-Liberal Gre-
gory for associates,
and Mann, who has
been nearly every-
thing by turns and
nothing long; but such
a Ministry would be
extinguished in the
ridicule it would
excite.
McWilliams,
M.H.R.
Amid much talk by the Council of Trade
Unions of throwing arbitration overboard
and declaring the courts black, the Vic.
Carters and Drivers have defined their posi-
tion. They are willing to go on arbitrating
provided they are assured in advance that
nothing they dislike will be done to wage
conditions, and that they won’t be asked to.
work more than 44 hours per week. Within
these limits they are prepared to discuss
higher wages and fewer hours till the cows
come home.
Prime Minister Bruce didn’t run true to
form when he refused to appoint a Royal
Commission to tackle the coal situation; but,
then, neither did the Labor party in asking
for what it has ridiculed so often. As a
compromise, a full-dress debate has been
arranged. Meanwhile 15,000 miners who re-
fused to contribute Is. as their share of a ss.
per Ln reduction have received a fortnight's
notice. There is a great deal of loose talk
about a duty on imported coal. This wouldn’t
bring back the export trade, but it would
keep up the local price; and the local price
is a serious matter. It affects the State rail-
ways, among other things, and their losses
might lead to further clamor in Bruce’s ear
for subsidies lest something worse should
happen. It is a rather exhausted ear already.
W. A. Watt was one of the absen-
tees from the divi-
sion on which the
Bruce-Pages nearly
went down. Though
returned as a sup-
porter of the Gov-
ernment, he likes
it as little as he
lik e s Canberra ;
still, he ought to
be on hand when
things are happen-
ing. Barking at
the Government at
faraway little Nat.-
Fe d. gatherings
and failing to go
on with the busi-
ness at party meet-
ings or in the
House is a r<s]e un-
worthy of a man of
par t s who held
high office and
might have held
the highest if he
hadn’t resigned
from the failing
Hughes Ministry in
a huff.
Willie Watt.
N. S. Wales politicians arc being driven
to admit that their State is worse off for
hospital accommodation and the like than
any other. Dr. Arthur, the Health Minister,
confesses that there are 1100 names on the
waiting-lists at the Sydney hospitals alone.
He suggests that there is an abribrmal
amount of sickness, but, judging by the 15)27
report of his own department, the position
was just as shameful 14 months ago,
nor were the harrowing conditions confined
to Sydney hospitals. At the Waterfall Sani-
torium
the pressure on the accpmmodation for patients was
worse this year than ever before. It was necessary
to place extra beds in wards already occupied by
more than their proper number of patients, [and]
the nursing staff was taxed to breaking point.
Lidcombe was the scene of even ghastlier
overcrowding, not only in the hospital,
where the average daily number of patients
was 99 more than the standard number of
beds, but in the alleged home for the aged
and infirm. And all this in a State where
the public debt has shot up from 152 millions
to 249 millions in eight years. What have
the politicians done with the money?
An Australian Labor politician suggested
a vote of congratulation to the Prince of
Wales on his courage in going into the North
of England coal country—though a Royal
pilgrimage through Surry Hills might have
been less safe. Apparently H.R.H. proposed
no remedy for the situation, and the British
Labor party proposes none either. It didn't
even mention one during its term of office in
1924. The Government says that Britain
has widow, orphan and old-age pensions and
a national health insurance system which
covers about 14,000,000 persons; that it
spends about £60,000,000 a year in war pen-
sions and allowances, and has a most costly
and comprehensive unemployment insurance
scheme —the famous dole. None of these
originated with a Labor Ministry. It dis-
claims responsibility for the coal strikes of
1921 and 1926. In addition it did its best
to revive British industry when it ran an
election on its Protectionist policy and lost
its job to Ramsay MacDonald. Now that
many thousands of workers are applying to
have their industries protected (“safe-
guarded” is the euphemistic expression, but
it means anything up to 60 per cent, duty)
Baldwin and co. claim that they were right,
and that fools prevented them doing the
nation the best turn ever done it. In the
circumstances they naturally ask why the
Prince exploded his bomb in their path
shortly before an election.
“Northerner” : It is true that the Nation-
alists wanted Dr. Nott to stand for Cairns
(B. 30/l/’29) ; wrong that he was ever
approached by any shade of Red. John
Stacey, of Stacey and Stacey, will be Pre-
mier McCormack’s opponent. The other
Opposition candidates in N.Q. are Paddy
Atherton, one of the best-known men in the
North, who will carry the flag in Chillagoe;
Kenny, a Mareeba returned soldier, who will
fight H. J. Ryan in Cook ; and George Duffy,
of Youngaburra, who will contest Eacham
against C. J. Ryan. From Cairns to the end
of the Peninsula Dr. Nott had a good majo-
rity on Nov. 17; therefore the outlook is
bright for Kenny. And the Eacham and
Chillagoe subdivisions were largely respon-
sible for Grosvenor Francis's fine win in Ken-
nedy. So Atherton and Duffy have excellent
prospects.
KNOW YE THE LAND?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Speaking in the Canadian House of
Sir John Bennett, the Conservative leader, sav that
not within the memory of any man now fix the
House had language been heard so violent as that
used by public men in the United States against
Great Britain.”
Know ye the land of the star-spangled ban-
ner
Where (save in speak-easies) no person
gets shick?
Where a bob is a quarter, and a sprat or a
tanner
A dime, and a nickel our thrummer or
tick?
The land of ’Lije Pogram and Jefferson
Brick?
Know ye the land of the brave and the free
Where beer is verboten and banned eau de
vie?
Know ye the land where the bellicose eagle’s
Hymn of self-adulation is shrilled to the
sky?
Where the voice of Bill Thompson Chicago
inveigles
To hit all things English a smack in the
eye?
Know ye the land, grown dyspeptic from
pie,
Where twisting the tail of the Lion’s a sort
Of hugely enjoyed periodical sport.
Know ye the land with the wide world for
debtor
Determined to have every cent of its dues,
The land that, the drier it gets, becomes
“wetter”
With nations fi-om whom it’s obtained
lOU’s?
Know ye the land where they’ve cut out
the booze
And mounted the waggon, abjuring the tot?
It hasn’t advantaged their manners a lot!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Hayband”: One Vie. country constable
of my acquaintance was a keen horticul-
turist, but lazy. Consequently, when lie had
400 cabbage seedlings ready for transplant-
ing he looked for assistance and Providence
delivered a tough-looking tramp into his
hands. Next day the John showed his cap-
tive how to tuck the seedlings in, and added
that he could clear out when the job was
done. The sundowner seemed interested and
late afternoon saw the last tiny cabbage
adjusted; the Force had,; meanwhile rested
under a handy verandah. The weather was
BELOW THE DEEPEST DEPTHS A DEEPER STILL.
“There’s nothing so vain as you artists about your paintings.”
“Alas, Madame, you’re wrong. Our efforts to sell ’em are vainer.”
warm and the babies sagged in the usual
way. A day or two later they were still
unanimously horizontal, and the Law stepped
in to inspect. The tramp had pinched the
roots off every one of them !
* * * *
“Oxmead”: King George’s serious illness
and slow convalescence remind me that 57
years ago his father, then just over 30, went
almost nearer to the Beyond. It was the
first event of national importance that was
ever impressed on my juvenile mind, and
the manner of the impressing leaves it still
as vivid as if it had happened yesterday. I
remember a very small boy emerging from
a house in the Gloucestershire countryside
and demanding of an aged and (to him)
omniscient gardener why the sky was so
dark. The ancient didn’t attribute the black
clouds, as he might reasonably have done,
to the imminence of a thunderstorm; he said
very seriously and sorrowfully that w’ord
had just reached the village that the Prince
of Wales was dying, and that the heavens
had naturally darkened in consequence. Then
he went on potting tulips. The Prince
didn’t die, but I never doubted for years
afterwards that Divine interposition had only
occurred at the very last moment.
* * * *
“Avon”: In Christchurch (M.L.) gaiety
is sternly supervised. There are a couple of
dance-halls in the city, miscalled cabarets,
and a City Council headed by a noncon-
formist parson has decreed how they are to
be used. For one
thing, there’s no sit-
ting out. Once you
go in you stay in. It’s
an offence against the
by-law to leave the
hall and return to it
between 8 p.m. and
midnight, or to park a
car anywhere in the
vicinity of the place
where the dancing is
going on. Frequent
visits are made by a
uniformed cop to in-
sure that the rules of
decorum, as conceived
in the mind of what-
ever cop happens to
be on that beat at the
time, are observed. It
has been discovered by
the council’s legal
advisers that it would
be ultra vires to ring
a curfew bell at S
p.m. and prosecute
stragglers, or to pro-
hibit altogether the
evil practice of danc-
ing, such ordinances
being a bit outside both common and statute
law in these days, but where there’s a will
there’s a way.
* * * *
“ J.11.M.A.”: The big gum-tree in what is
now known as Macquarie-place, Sydney,
under which Australia’s first court was held,
did duty also as the country’s first gallows.
This was at the end of 1789, when six
marines were hanged there. Lieutenant
Fowell, of 11.M.5. Sirius, tells the story
in a letter to his father. “Six marines belong-
ing to ye battalion were hung for robbing
the provision storehouse and cellar. They
had keys that fitted the locks. They were
discovered by one of the keys being broke
in the lock of the cellar door, and they could
not get out the broken piece. As soon as it
was discovered the lock was taken off and
the broken key shown to all the blacksmiths
to know if anyone had made such a key, and
for whom. One of them immediately recol-
lected the key, and said he made it for one
of the marines for his chest. The lock of his
chest was examined, and the key was found
to fit it. Seven of them were concerned, but
one of them turned King’s evidence and saved
his neck. He was the greatest villain and
the first projector of the scheme, which had
been carried on near 10 months before it was
discovered.”
* * * *
“Ratio”: I had made an early start from
the border township and being short of petrol
pulled up at the pump before the closed
garage. An unkempt individual slowly
approached. “What time does the garage
open?” I asked. He pointed across the pad-
dock. “That's ’im, cornin’ over down near
the crick. You're luckier ’n me.” he added,
a trifle morosely. “I gotter wait an hour yet
—tlr old cow up at the pub won't give a
man a sup till the tick of nine. Gripes! I
wish there was a blanky whisky bowser.”
* * * *
“Obsovell”: The problem of how* much
heat the human frame can stand without
giving up the ghost w*as investigated in a
very practical manner by the riveters on
Sydney’s Harbor Bridge on a day not so very
long ago w r hen the shade temperature soared
well above a hundred. The only way to
join up those huge box girders that form the
bottom chord of the great arch—they’re the
biggest yet fabricated by man—is to put
someone inside to attend to one end of each
rivet. Rivets are worked red-hot and they
must be clamped in place within a few
soeonds of the time they are thrown out of
the furnace. The creeper crane holds each
TRAGEDIES OF SURFING.
“How do you come to get all those bruises, Gladys?”
“Oh, this morning I was just experiencing a bonzer rescue, when the brute suddenly
discovered that he was my husband.”
segment in place while riveting is proceed-
ing, but the stoutest of steel cables lengthens
a bit after an hour or so of tremendous
strain, and the riveters must go for their
lives if the safety of the whole enormous
structure is not to be endangered. Inside a
steel box heated by the sun on two sides to
a temperature of 160 degrees men toiled on
that very hot day over rivets so hot that they
burnt the very air. I’m told that riveters get
very good pay, but whatever the rate is, I
doubt whether it’s always enough.
* * ❖
“Ike H.”: The joke was on the Water and
Sewerage Board at one period during Janu-
ary, when all sorts of restrictions were being
put upon the water consumption of thirsty
Sydneyites, but the incident was kept a dead
secret from the press. The taps of the
board’s own offices went bone-dry for one
whole day, and the officials had a better
excuse for going out to have a drink than
in all their years of service.
$ * * *
“P.M.”: A Vic. railway refreshment-room
manager has got to prepare for all sorts of
emergencies these days. Every day our local
station gets the number of passengers ’phoned
from Bendigo when the train leaves there.
If it’s Monday morning the official
victualler has a stock of flasks and bottles
on the counter ready for the commercials, and
so on. One recent day the s.m. stuck his
head in the door. “A hundred and ninety,
Bill; regular trainload of skirt,” he an-
nounced. “Better get the chocolates and
lemonade out; it’s all the bush school-teachers
getting back to the Mallee!”
* * * *
“C.R.8.”: Methodism had a strong grip
on Moonta, Oswald Pryor’s home town, dur-
ing its palmy days. There was brisk com-
petition among young ministers for incum-
bencies at the three churches —the billet
generally had a three-years’ tenure —and Con-
ference’s decision was always eagerly awaited.
Willum Henry once examined three candi-
dates in turn. One was quite orthodox; the
second was that scandal to the chapel, a
modernist suspected of weakness on literal
inspiration; the third had a rich preaching
voice as his principal claim to grace. At
the stewards’ meeting Willum spoke his mind
in a sentence that is still quoted as a miracle
of terseness: “John, ’e be sound; Brean,
’e be unsound; James, ’e be all sound.”
* * * *
“Billy See” : Chinese medical remedies are
often no more startling than the Chinese
physician’s method of diagnosis. I can recall
an Oriental practitioner who did great busi-
ness amongst the pearling crews in the boom
days of Cossack and Roebourne, some 40 years
ago. On one wall of his surgery hung a life-
size chart of the human body divided into
some fifty squares, all numbered. On the
opposite wall stood a set of pigeon-holes
similarly numbered, each hole containing
a drug. The patient indicated where he felt
the pain ; the spot was then located on the
chart, and the remedy obtained from the
correspondingly numbered pigeon-hole. Ga
Len did a splendid trade when the luggers
were in, and there were cynics who said
his percentage of cures was no lower than
the white doctor’s opposite.
* * * *
“P.M.”: These yarns about the methodical
final arrangements of suicides remind me
of an officer I knew in the Australian Flying
Corps. His mail was handed to him just as
he was going on a bomb raid. He opened
his letters, and handed a Commonwealth
Bank cheque for £25 to a cobber. “Mind
this for me till I come back,” he quietly
asked. “If I get taken prisoner, see
if you can gjet it through the Red Cross to
me. If I go west, buy me a decent wreath
out of it, and have a good time on your next
leave with the balance.” Ten minutes later
the machine turned over in a gust of wind
as it was taking off, and the other chap
borrowed a motor-bike to go for the wreath,
Three weeks later he was under a wreath
himself.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Marriage by proxy, such as
has been reported between a Government
official in Darwin and a woman in Malta,
is common in the tropics. In Java the man
posts a glove to the lady and she reciprocates,
On the receipt of the emblems both repair
to their respective registry offices and the
ceremony is concluded. The custom grew
out of the circumstance that in the slow
sailing-ship days a man went out to a colonial
station not as to-day for three or four
years, but for 10 or 20, and his womeu-
folk seldom joined him. Nowadays it is
usually done as a protective measure just
before the lady sails to join her life’s mate.
It gives her the status and immunity of a
married woman on the voyage out, whereas
if she were single and pretty she would pro-
bably be bombarded with proposals from
rubber planters and other exiles. An Aus-
tralian in Penang who had neglected this
precaution bounded eagerly on board to greet
his fiancee —and met, with the lady, her hus-
band. They had got married on the way up.
* * * *
“Maunga” : Recent paragraphs about ships
going into docks or locos, going through
bridges with only an inch or so to spare
remind me of when I missed perdition, by
much the same margin. It was in M.L., and
I was wearily legging it along a country
road when a chap driving an ancient prad
hitched to a dilapidated cart overtook me
and offered me a lift. He told me
to watch one wheel while he watched the
other, as neither was to be entirely relied
on. The extremely narrow road eventually
led round a side cutting with a drop of about
200 feet to the rock-ribbed creek below. The
old horse suddenly floundered, slid outward,
and I found myself looking straight down at
a speedy death. By some miracle the driver
got the prad back to the. centre of the road
again, but I was out of the cart like a shot
and- refused to ride another yard. “You’re
blanky well scared,” he said a little pity-
ingly. “There’s no need to be. Look at that
wheel track for yourself. Why, we had a
good two inches to spare!”
# * * #
“Ledraw” : At Urunga (N.S.W.) the other
day a pensioner was fined one pound and
costs for kissing a black gin. The methods
employed to secure a conviction were, some-
what similar to those employed in sly-grog
cases; according to the evidence the dusky
damsel was given- ten shillings by the man-
ager of the Aborigines Settlement to call at
the old chap’s residence at eight at night.
When the salute was offered, the visitor
screamed, whereupon a local john and a
companion, who had been planted outside,
revealed themselves. Sympathisers paid the
fine, as they considered the elderly gallant
had not had a fair spin.
* * * *
“Old 68” : I was lying in Caulfield Mili-
tary Hospital the other day listening to
Curly, with the after effects of the anaesthe-
tic still working, anthematising things in
general. (He had come in to have a piece of
shrapnel excised —it had gradually worked
towards the surface during the years.) “I
thought the war was over,” he finished
violently. “ ’Course it is,” cut in Bluey, lift-
ing his ear-’phoneg from off the hook near his
bed. “Doesn’t this prove it? Look.” And
he pointed to the brand: “Made in Ger-
many.”
* * * *
“Tevere”: According to the cables the
Vatican, with rare altruism, has refused an
extension of territory to the Villa Doria-
Pamphili. This is the loveliest part of outer
Rome —a territory of rolling hills, park
lands and villas that from St.
Peter’s nearly half-way to Ostia on the
coast. The present St. Peter’s railway
station is in this area (on the Rome-Viterbo
line, which passes round the Vatican), but
the new Papal State (or City) will pre-
sumably have a station inside its walls. The
news that the Vatican intends to have its
own railway station and aerodrome implies
that the Pope not only will cease to be a
“prisoner” but will travel; and this, taken
in conjunction with the rejection of the rich
territory between the Via Aurelia and S.
Pancrazio, makes it clear that there is no
desire for “the road to the sea” which was
talked about so much at one time. Two
main roads run to the coast from just behind
the Villa Doria.
GRIPPED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The first time, miladi, I met you
Was in youth and remote ’eighty-eight,
And ever, the closer I get you,
The fiercer and gustier my hate.
No dodging you—hither and yonder,
Like Ahasuerus the Jew,
The world you incessantly wander,
Pestiferous ’Flu!
You came and some labelled you Spanish
Or heaped upon Russia the blame,
And pundits opined you would vanish
As sudden and quick as you came
From steppes that stretch starkly and barely
In the realm of the Tartar and Chow.
Vain hope! You are fairly and squarely
Cosmopolite now.
From the floe where the Greenlander freezes
To the spit where the Seedeeboys sweat
All's prey for your sniffs and your sneezes,
All's fish that comes into your net.
Dark brown grows the tongue and metallic
For sign you’ve arrived with a skip,
Fell Fury whom aptitude Gallic
lias christened La Grippe.
With wheezy bronchitis you slaughter
Your victims, and smite with catarrh ;
You might be the Devil’s own daughter,
And I’ve more than a notion you arc.
From the folds of my bandanna hanky
I would hurl some invective to cut
If I only could frame it, you blanky
And murderous slut.
East and westward you torture and injure,
You harry by north and by south,
Till life is a horror —and ginger
No longer is hot i’ the mouth ;
Till rum on one’s palate scarce lingers—
Not even a second mate’s nip,
Not even a pilot’s two fingers.
Hell choke you, La Grippe!
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


“P.M.”: The ship’s doctor on the troop-
ship Nestor, an old Scotsman well known to
hundreds of Diggers, had an inexhaustible
stock of yarns. One concerned the time the
Nestor was transporting Yankee troops to
France. “Once, boys,” lie loved to tell us,
“we took across a battalion of New York
Jews. They were called the Jordan High-
landers, and their regimental crest was three
stars, three stripes and three balls, with the
words, ‘No advance without security.’ ”
* * si: ‘ s|c
“Venturino”: It was a hot night in
a small South Australian township when
a cobber and myself tackled our favo-
rite publican for a drink and found him
windy. “No chance, boys,” he told us:
“the flamin’ John’s been bobbin’ round all
the evening.” We tried the other Bung and
found him equally windy, but, being partially
sozzled, more amenable to reason. “I’ll bring
a coupler bottles out to the side gate,” he
promised. We kept watch while he groped
in the dark bar. “Here y’ are,” he presently
whispered hoarsely. “Now git, quick!” We
were stowing the bottles into hip pockets
when we were hailed in a voice of authority,
and to our horror found Hop striding
towards us. Taking our names and the
bottles he walked off, but presently came
rushing back. “Think you’re dam’ funny!”
he squealed. “But you wait! I’ll have you
yet. Here, take your lemonade /” And, sure
enough, examination under the hotel light
had shown him what we didn’t know, that
the publican, fumbling in the dark, had
picked the bottles from the wrong crate.
* * * *
“Methyl”: “Delph’s” friend who develops
unpleasant symptoms when she eats parsley
(B. 9/l/’29) is the victim of selective sen-
sibility towards one of the proteins. There
are many similar cases on record. A musical-
comedy actress well known to Australian
audiences comes out in unsightly red
blotches if she eats even a mouthful of
lobster—and she is very fond of lobster. A
few strawberries are sufficient to make a
girl of my acquaintance quite ill for several
hours and to make her face look as though
it were badly sunburned. Other people are
forced to eschew shell-fish for a similar
reason, and there is on record a case in
which even a small quantity of beer made
a man violently ill and brought him out in
a skin-eruption covering his chest and arms:
but, thank Heaven, that is the only case of
that kind known! The condition of protein
susceptibility, for which there is apparently
no cure, is more common amongst women
than amongst men.
* * * *
“Spuds”: Should the Privy Council’s re-
cent decision that Garden Island in Port
Jackson belongs to N.S.W., and not to the
Commonwealth, result in the Navy’s tenancy
of it being terminated, it will close a very
long connection between the King’s ships
and the pretty islet off Woolloomooloo Bay.
The first mention of this speck of land is
found in the log book of H.M.S. Sirius, under
date of February 11, 1788, where it is re-
corded that an officer and a party of men
were sent to the Garden Island “to clear it
for a garden for the ship’s company.” Daniel
Southw'ell, a midshipman in the flagship,
writing to his mother from the Cape of
THE PHILANDERER.
“You are one girl in a thousand.”
“Heavens—have there been that many others?”
Good Hope, a year later, refers to the gar-
den’s prospects with some pessimism. “We
. are now,” he says, “in expectation of sailing
immediately for P’t J’n. When we left that
place we left a man to look after a kind
of kitchen-garden, situated on a small island
in the harbor, and appropriated to the scr-
vice of H.M.S. Sirius. Shou’d this succeed
and yield encrease ’twill prove of good use
and worth the labor it has cost. But tho’
we may, at our arrival, be longing for re-
freshments of this nature, yet, for my own
part. I wall not be sanguine, for not only
our black, but our still more barbarous neigh-
bors, the convicts, may have despoil’d or
destroyed it.”
* * * *
“H.M.: Jews wall take strong objection
to the statement of “D.” (B. 13/2/’29) that
“in Australia every denomination volun-
teered up to their quota except the Jews,
who were below their quota.” In a memorial
volume published with the opening of the
Sydney Jewish War Memorial Hall it is
claimed that the Jewish enlistments in Aus-
tralia. compared with the number of eligibles,
were higher than those of any section of the
community. As far as the N.S.W. Jews,
who numbered less than 8000 at that time,
were concerned, S2S actually went on service
overseas and 113 died on active service. Had
a similar percentage of enlistments pre-
vailed all round, the total would have
exceeded 500,000. Generally speaking, de-
nominational figures are unreliable. Being
told that I must have a religion I enlisted
as an R.C., for no other reason than that
some of the most genial and tolerant shep-
herds I have known have been priests; but
always, when I attended church parade, it
was that of the C. of E., boyhood training
having made me familiar with the service.
* * * *
“Queen’s Cross”: The old Cornish miner
who owned up to taking his “half-ounce
reg’lar” (B. 13/2/’29) calls to mind Elias
Trepolperrick, who prided himself on his
intimate knowledge of goldmining in all its
branches. One day a mate met him in Gill-
street in the declining days of the Towers.
“How ’ee gettin’ on. Eli?” said the mate.
“Hear tell ’ee’s workin’ at East Mexican?”
“Damme, ,boy,” fired up Eli. “dedst ever
knaw me work in mine payin’ naw divi-
dends?”
>1" He * H>
“R. Volt”: It will soon be possible for
the police to lodge your photograph or
fingerprint at the G.P.O. in Melbourne and
for an almost perfect reproduction to be
in Sydney in four minutes. The system to
be used will bes, the Siemens-Karoius, over
which a German firm has the patent rights.
The general public will be allowed to send
pictures, letters, cheques, prospectuses or
anything of which an exact copy of the
original is important. The ordinary trunk
telephone lines will carry these' objects,
broken up into electrical vibrations.
* He H< H>
“Admiral Blowmetight”: No need to go to
Arab travellers for stories of the sea-serpent.
In IS4S, about six bells in the forenoon
watch, the officers and crew of H.M.S.
Daedalus, cruising in the South Atlantic,
noticed a peculiar object approaching on
the port-quarter. Presently there passed, a
cable’s length astern of the ship, a very large
and unmistakable serpent, swimming with a
considerable portion of its head out of the
water. The creature crossed the shin’s wake
and gradually disappeared, but not before
sextant measurements had roughly fixed the
length of the visible section at 40ft. The
happening wag duly entered in the log and
was the subject of a special report on the
ship’s arrival in England. One of the officers
made a drawing of the marine monster.
* * * *
“Casual Burglar’s Laborer”: I knew in a
general way that illicit beer could be obtained
at pretty nearly any of the shops that make
a mystery living in one Darlinghurst street,
but, lacking precise information, I w r as forced
to draw a bow at a venture. The man to
whom I whispered, “Can I get a couple of
bottles of beer here?” stared at me hard for
a moment and then smiled tolerantly. “No,”
he said, “this is the one place where you
can’t.”
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Having presumably fished out
Maoriland, novelist Zane Grey now proposes
to lead a quasi-scientific expedition around
the North Coast of Australia, and hopes
eventually to reach Cocos Island. If he does,
he will not be the first scientific party to
lighten the tedium of existence for the cable
staff on the atoll where Darwin, studied the
coral insect before cables were thought of.
Wood-Jones, the world-famous anthropolo-
gist, who w r as a professor at Adelaide Uni-
versity, put in a term there, ostensibly as
quack to the staff but principally to measure
native crania. But the queerest “scientist”
Cocos ever entertained w-as a German baron
who blew in trn a tramp steamer and an-
nounced that he was a specialist in curious
ways of slaughtering wild animals. Accord-
ing to his own story, he had shot bears in
Japan with bow and arrow, and snipe in
Sumatra from the back of an elephant. The
only game that Cocos provides is rats, land
crabs and barracouta, but the Baron found
the hospitality of the mess to his liking, and
stayed until his eccentricities began to excite
comment. In a community w r hcre everybody
went about in a state as near nudity as pos-
sible, it was noticed that he was invariably
fully clothed from neck to ankle, and one day
the staff descended on him and pulled up a
trouser leg. His skin was so covered -with
the marks of morphia injection that there
was scarcely room to push in another needle,
He was shipped back to Singapore, and spent
the voyage hunting blue-tongued lizards and
purple goannas round his cabin,
* * * *
“Bert the Carpenter”: A tame cocka-
too disturbed almost half of the Adelaide
tramway system a few years ago. Near
the Thebarton converter station Cocky flow
up from a house, and after circling around
settled on the high-tension transmission line
conveying the current from the Port Adelaide
power-house. Instantly there was a flash, a
bang, and a very dead bird. The linesmen
soon found the cause —Cocky had two feet
of steel chain attached to his leg, and this
had caused the “short.” The owner of the
bird put in a claim for 305., representing
the value of her pet, but the Tramways
countered by pointing out that the bird had
done some £lOO worth of damage to their
instrument board, to say nothing of holding
ANOTHER FALL.
“Did you see that picture the boss’s painted of Adam and Eve?”
“No.”
“Well, he’s gone and painted her with a kind of apple that wasn’t known till
’bout twenty year ago.”
up the tram traffic, and what did Cocky’s
owner intend to do about it? They heard
no more of the claim. The same service, by
the way, finds trouble occasionally on dark,
windy nights, when swans, flying low for the
tidal swamps around the north arm of the
Port River, collide with the high-tension
mains. Usually the bird is eliminated in-
stantaneously, but sometimes a swan lasts
long enough to throw out the contact breakers
at the power-house.
# * * #
“Gola” ; When the dry (since 1902) elec-
torate of AshUdUon (M.L.) was recently
merged in its two wet neighbors, there were
no licensed houses to be resuscitated, but the
Ashburton Men’s Club and Mutual School
of Art was enabled to re-open its bar. It
found itself in possession of a lucrative mono-
poly, for there is no hotel within 12 miles.
The membership list has rapidly risen to
500, and though the Drys are threatening
action, the club is apparently well within
its legal rights. What is more, there is no
provision for any other licensed house in the
city or the district, nor can another license
be granted until permissive legislation is
passed.
* * * *
“Carrick, A. 8.”: Speaking of “mam-
moth waves” (B. 30/l/’29), the biggest
in the Seven Seas are to be met
in “the ’forties” be-
tween Maoriland and
the South Atlantic.
For all their size, they
aren’t dangerous to a
good sea boat. The
most dangerous and
dreaded waves are
encountered off Sable
Island, s.-e. of Nova
Scotia, in the North
Atlantic, during a
hurricane. These
waves “break up from
the bottom,” as the
saying goes, and have earned for Sable
Island the title of “the graveyard of the
North Atlantic.”
*** . *
“Venturino” : As a speech test for sobriety
I was always impressed with the toast pro-
posed annually at the smoke social con-
nected with the Oakbank (S.A.) sheep-dog
trials held on the Onkaparinga racecourse.
It was always a treat to watch the slightly
apprehensive faces of visitors (who hadn’t
imbibed more than five or six, anyway) when
with glasses aloft they rose to drink, and
if possible, repeat the toast of “The Onka-
paringa Sheep-dog Field Trial Society!”
Having stumbled through that fence with
what relief they would turn to the firmer and
more familiar ground of “Jolly Good Fel-
lows” !
* * * *
“Sassenach”; Few personal stocks can
ever have depreciated so steadily, even in
emancipated Ireland, as that of Eamon de
Valera, once Erin’s most acclaimed and
limelit “patriot,” last week sentenced to a
month’s imprisonment for crossing the Ulster
frontier in defiance of a judical order for-
bidding him to set foot in that section of the
country. The 28 days in itself would be
humiliating enough for a man who was once
regaraeo as a sort of uncrowned king, but
when the beak unkindly referred to De Y.'s
insistence on addressing the Court in Irish as
“play-acting,” the sometime idol’s cup _of
bitterness must have been filled to the brim.
There was a time when English was contemp-
tuously stigmatised by patriots of the De
Valera type as “the language of the garri-
son,” but now that Dublin Castle has under-
gone a transformation the gibe must have
lost all its old point. It was one of Lynn
Doyle’s characters, an Irish school-master,
who while expressing the keenest attachment
to the tongue of his fathers, at the same time-
registered his exceeding thankfulness that
“the language of the garrison was under-
stood by every-barman in the four Provinces.”
* * * *
“Country Ped.”: In this age of electricity
State schools are still cleaned by the old
dirty method of sweeping out the accumu-
lated dirt with a broom. Dust rises and
settles on all the shelves, window ledges and
behind pictures. The desks are moved only
once a week. The cracks between the floor-
ing-boards hold as much dirt as is ever
swept out. In schools where there is no
resident caretaker every morning sees
teachers and children flicking away dust
from desks and shelves, although it is not
supposed to be the job of either. Only three
times a year, or when an epidemic breaks
out, is the whole school thoroughly cleansed
from floor to ceiling. Wherever there is
electricity available electric cleaning appa-
ratus should be an essential part of the
school equipment, and rubber floor covering
should be laid down, in every school. These
ideas may be expensive, but they certainly
would lead to cleaner school buildings—and
healthier children.
* * * *
“Chev.”: The record in departmental pro-
lixity was established by a recent issue of the
Commonwealth Gazette. Norfolk Island
owns three motor-cars. The ordinance re-
lating to the supervision and control of
motor traffic on the island occupies 11 pages
of the publication.
* * * *
“Smada”: English is the only possible
universal language. None of the manufac-
tured languages possess a soul, or can be
grafted upon any full-grown tongue. Volapuk
is a hotch-potch of all the languages that
have survived in the rough-and-tumble. The
objection of the Englishman to speak, say,
French or German or Spanish is no doubt
arrogant and insular; but it works. For
instance, the authorities in Paris defer to
this attitude by having a few traffic gen-
darmes with a sign indicating that they can
understand and speak English. But it is
significant that in a much larger city, Lon-
don. there are no traffic interpreters announ-
cing that that they understand and speak
French.
* * * *
“Waipara”: The remains of a ship called
the Endeavor are lying in Dusky Sound
(M.L.), but this isn’t Captain Cook's famous
craft, though it has often been alleged
to be. The vessel was an old East India-
man which left Sydney in 1795 and was aban-
doned as unseaworthy in Dusky Sound.
There is reason to think that Cook’s Endea-
vor ended her days on the English Thames.
In the early part of last century she was
one of the shows of London, and was visited
by thousands. About 1835 she was utilised
as a prison for female convicts awaiting
transportation to the colonies, but nothing
; s known with certainty of her ultimate
fate.
LOST CHANCES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If I but close my eyes they come,
Lost faces magically dumb—
And paler now for memory's mist—
lhe pretty girls I should have kissed!
Ah me! regrets are somewhat vain.
Let could I meet them once again,
Ao longer shy I’d be, I wist,
Hear demoiselles I could have kissed.
Slim Dorothy these days and Tess
Trip past unheeding. None the less
I once had flair, I must insist.
And there were girls I might have kissed.
“Old fool!” you snort—well, let it be!
I wonder what they thought of me,
Those fourteen ladies (by my list)
I could and damn well should have kissed.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


%*££* m IkM- & .
«*/
o
“BLUNTON”
The Comfort
Collar.
A stiff collar —popular
peaked style—but with
points rounded to prevent
rubbing through your
shirts. Cool—lightweight
and curved in front to
stand out from the neck.
Perfect fit and easy pas-
sage of your tie are
guaranteed!
An “Arrow” Collar
1/9 each; 20/- doz.
ROSS FIELD GLASSES
ďf
SUPERLATIVELY GOOD
FOR ALL-ROUND USE.
The +7
ROSS BINOCULAR
(as illustrated)
For all general purposes there is no Binocular to equal the + 7 Ross, which is a British
article of the highest quality, famed for its perfection of manufacture.
Extra wide vision and clear-cut magnification are points you will appreciate.
Inspect our large range of Ross Binoculars, ranging in price from £lO
(Optical Bept., Ist Floor.)
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
PLAIN FIGURES.
CASH ONLY.
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
"Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
PERSONAL
ITEMS
There is a queer contrast between Matthew
Charlton, so mild in appearance and manner,
and Rowland James, the new M.11.R. for
Hunter. James is a giant of a fellow with
an ironstone face, a broken nose and a voice
like an Atlantic liner’s fog siren. Almost
as soon as he could leap to his feet lie fired
an argumentative question at Bruce on the
subject of coal, and obviously he means to
give the Government no peace on that ques-
tion. The contrast between the wild man
from the mines and Paul Jones, who won
Indi because Bob Cook could not remember
nomination-day, is just as odd. The name-
sake of the dare-devil sea-raider is a quiet,
benign-looking gent, with white hair.
Edward John Higgins, who will be the Sal-
vation Army’s new General, unless the Courts
decide that Bramwell Booth can’t be shifted,
is tail and aesthetic-looking. The original
Booth plucked him as a brand from the burn-
ing at Bristol 45 years ago; Higgins was
then 17. He was at one time the organisa-
tion’s Chief Secretary in the U.S.A., Eva
Booth being Commander. Australia is one
of the very few places he has never visited.
W. G. Conley, general manager of the
S. M. Herald, who was very ill when this
issue of The Bulletin began its journey
through the press, died at the week-end. A
forceful man, Conley, a Queenslander by
birth, graduated to his place on the board
W. G. CONLEY.
of John Fairfax and Sons from the country
press and the old paper’s own literary ser-
vice: it was as chief of staff that he showed
those qualities which marked him out for
the highest post in the firm’s gift. Out-
side the office he was interested chiefly in
the Rotary movement. He guided the,
Herald with great success through a period
full of difficulty, and thereby did notable
work for journalism as well as for his own
journal.
The amputation of both legs has not taken
the salt out of life for Charles Skerrett,
Maoriland’s .Chief Justice, or lessened his
zeal for public service. He has just started
°ff 9 n . a . trip abroad, intending to resume
his judicial duties in May. In preparation
for this a special lift is being placed at the
back of the bench at Wellington Supreme
Court, so that he may be hoisted into his
seat. A devoted sister keeps house for his
Honor, who is a bachelor.
The position of Sheriff in South Aus., held
in turn by Boothby and Schomburgk, has
been split up on the latter’s retirement. The
official title goes to S. G. Blackman, who
has been acting-Sheriff latterly; the control-
of-prisons part of the job falls to Inspec-
tor Whittle, who was a warder long ago and
has been head of the detective branch.
Whittle’s successor as chief of the ’tecs is
Inspector Nation, an inter-State oarsman in
other days and a veteran of the South
African War.
Onco-golden Gympie (Q.) lost one of its
pioneers when Mick D’Arcy panned his last
prospect at 85. ' Mick, who was known to
everyone who visited the old field, tried his
luck with shovel and dish in Maoriland be-
fore he cast up in Gympie in ISOS, lie and
three mates pegged out No. 5 Monkland, 104
tons of stone from which yielded 24250 z. of
gold. The four made their fortunes, but as
if that wasn’t enough Mick got in on the
No. 1 North Phoenix, which paid 120 a
share on its £20,000 capital. Queensland
racing men remember him as owner, among
other good horses, of Honest Ned, winner
of many big races in the late 1880’s.
A nice birthday present came the way of
Dr. Harry Sutton, who was 47 last Monday
—an appointment as Director of the School
of Public Health and Tropical Medicine,
which the .Commonwealth is establishing at
Sydney Uni. Carrying a salary of £l5OO
p.a., it means a lift of £4OO p.a. for the
principal M.O. of the N.S.W. Education
Department. Sutton, born in Victoria, where
his father was Governor of Bendigo Gaol,
was an early Vic. Rhodes Scholar, and was
the Commonwealth's champion runner at
half a mile and a mile in 1903. He served
as m.o. in Egypt and Palestine during the
war.
“Dryblower” Murphy, the Westralian bard,
has been revisiting his native State. His
father was a modeller in South Melbourne.
If it had not been for the war Murphy
might have handed on only a local fame
to posterity, even though half Australia sang
his “This Bit o’ the World Belongs to Us”
before the Trouble came. Armageddon moved
him to compose “My Son,” which has been
translated into eight languages. While re-
maining a busy writer, Murphy and his
sons have converted a section of salmon gum
forest into a wheat farm, and are doing well.
The City Engineer’s job in Adelaide, ren-
dered vacant by R. M. Scott’s promotion to
Melbourne, goes to another returned soldier,
W. C. D. Veale. * A Bendigonian, Veale
earned a D.C.M. and M.C. in France, and
learned a lot in England after the Armistice.
For six years he has been assistant-engineer
to Adelaide Corporation. The Tasmanian
Government has been angling for him, but
he preferred the succession to Scott.
Ex-Senator J. 11. McColl turned 85 the
other day and reported himself in good health.
His career as a Vic. politician commenced
in 1886, when he became M.L.A. for Man-
durang, and ended in 1914, when Joe Cook
secured the double dissolution and went
down. The old man retired to a property
at Gunbower, scene of many of his father’s
battles for the extension of water rights.
Nowadays he lives at Kew.
F. E. Morey, of Morey and Co., takes
life easily in Brisbane now, but he had some
stirring experiences in the pioneering
days of pearling in Torres Strait. Start-
ing from scratch, he saved enough to
buy the five-ton cutter Maria-Esevia (in
after years the craft in which Wil-
kins, the explorer, journeyed to the
mainland and the Olive River), and kept
on battling with the fixed ambition of own-
ing a pearling fleet, which he duly achieved.
Morey has spent many thousands in trying
to develop a copra Industry on the east coast
of Cape York Peninsula, and some of his
trees are coming into bearing.
It may turn out that the greatest advance
in the world offensive against cancer of late
years has been made in the Australian sec-
tor. Dr. T. Cherry, Melbourne ’Varsity’s
cancer research man, has been working since
1925 on the theory which has succeeded Gyc
and Barnard’s premature discovery of a
cancer organism, that the disease is the
resultant of two factors working together,
one existing in the affected cells and the
other an introduced irritant. His report,
which has just been published, is exciting
keen interest among specialists. The work
involved an immense amount of observation
of the effects of cancer on a multitude of
white mice, and is, incidentally, another
blow to the arguments of the anti-vivisec-
tionists.
The Anglican diocese of Riverina has a
real sky-pilot in the rector of Wileannia, who
uses his own ’plane in which to visit parish-
ioners. Ilis bishop, Reginald Halse, hasn't
gone that far yet, but when the Bishop wants
to visit Broken Hill, on the extreme edge
of the diocese, he leaves Hay by aeroplane
at eleven in the morning and arrives at the
Hill by afternoon-tea time. The journey
used to take him two days.
In between his mining activities the late
William Orr was an auctioneer and agent.
He ran a business of the sort in Wangaratta,
and Wangaratta and district sent him into
the Uppish House for three years (1901-04).
Unconventional and a bit of an orator, Orr
astonished J. M. Davies, the unofficial leader,
by speaking twice the night he was sworn
in. Edgar, now Chairman of Committees,
is the only member of the present Plush
Chamber who was there in Orr's time.
JOHN DUNN, organist at Adelaide's
Anglican Cathedral. He is so good that
they are getting a new organ this year
for him.
No politician in Australia has suffered so
much as W. i>. Johnson, a foundation mem-
ber of Wcstralia’s Parliamentary Labor
party, from the caucus system of picking
Ministries. Olfice first came Johnson’s way
in 1004, when the late Harry Daglish made
liim first lieutenant, and he was generally
accounted the best man in the Ministry. But
when Labor chose its team under the new
system in 1911, it was all Johnson could
do to scrape into the last portfolioed place,
and since 1916 he has never had a snilf
of office. However able a man may be, it
will profit him little when Caucus selects the
Ministry unless he has managed to steer
clear of the gentle art of making enemies.
Admiral Sir Edmund Fremantle, dead in
England at 92, was one of a stock that has
figured prominently in British history, and
lived long enough to see one of his sons
holding full flag rank at the same time as
himself. Like the Fremantle who hoisted
the flag at the mouth of the Swan River on
May 2, 1829, he had an intimate association
with Australia. In Sydney in the ’sixties,
he married Miss Isaacs there, and she
brought him five sons. The old gentleman
saw a lot of active service, and was a
voluminous writer on naval affairs.
Group-captain Cave-Brown-Cave, the shy
young airman who brought the Southampton
supermarines to Australia last year, has re-
turned to England leaving his craft behind
in Singapore to form the nucleus of an air
force there. Among his recommendations to
his Government was one that Basra and
Singapore should be made permanent bases
for units of the big amphibians. Inciden-
tally, he remarked while in Australia that
Darwin would make an ideal spot for yet
another.
Another of the Ma State’s judicial Stephen
family gets a place on the Bench w T ith the
appointment of Milner Stephen as Acting-
Supreme Court Judge for 12 months during
the absence of Chief Justice Street. He is
a grandson of Alfred Stephen, a nephew of
Matthew Henry Stephen (both Chief Jus-
tices) and a son of the Edward Milner
Stephen who was an official assignee. He
did good work on the Sydney City Council
till others made it too hot to last.
If young Australian shows reluctance to
join the Navy it shows none about taking
to the air. The other day the Larkin Air-
craft Co. called for applications for eight
apprentice fliers and mechanics, and will
have to choose them from 83.
11. O. Sykes, of the Yorkshire firm of
sports-goods manufacturers, is visiting Aus-
tralia. His father was apprenticed to a
saddler and harness-maker ; and for a Sun-
day-school outing he was urged to make a
couple of footballs, the leather being sup-
plied. Years afterwards, having started in
business on his own account, he recalled this
boyhood performance and the satisfaction it
had given, and started manufacturing foot-
balls as a side-line. Ilis goods became popu-
lar, and the business grew. In his first year
the elder Sykes made 24 footballs; the son’s
firm turns them out at the rate of 1000 a
day.
Sir Eric Geddes, now in Australia for Im-
perial Airways, which is only one of his many
interests, tells a tale of his domestic shopping
arrangements 'which should _ set feminine
mouths watering. He air-taxies daily iiom
his home in Sussex to his office in London
and on his way he passes over the great
aerodrome at Croydon. If his wife or
daughters want to do a little shopping in
Paris he drops them at Croydon, where
they catch the regular aerobus On his way
home in the evening he picks them up again
along with their packages.
Forty vears ago, when W illiam Murraj
McPherson went to work in his dad’s hard-
ware shop in Melbourne, only a few hands
were employed, and the turnover was a
couple of thousand a year. Now the busi-
ness employs G3O people and has a turnover
of a million p.a. In opening the new session
of the Pharmacy Col.. Melbourne, the other
day, McPherson recalled that the first six
months he got nothing, and at the end ot
five years his pay was 255. a week., lie
added, quite casually, that lie went in tor
profit-sharing, and that £lOO,OOO had been
paid to employees in addition to wages.
And Vic.’s Premier has been a public-spirited
citizen, as well as a considerate boss.
Rumor credited Owen Dixon, K.C., with
earning anything from seven to twelve thou-
sand a year in his practice; but his clerk
in Selborne Chambers, Los Brown, a very
model of discretion, is perhaps the only man.
besides the taxation people, who could tell
you precisely what his income was. lhe
story goes that a very wealthy combination
was so pleased with Dixon’s handling ot its
case that in gratitude it posted him a cheque
for a thousand guineas when the business
was all over. He promptly returned the
cheque with a courteous intimation that he
had already received his fees. The new
Judge’s fatiier, prior to liis retirement, -was
recognised as one of the shrewdest of legal
practitioners in Melbourne; and young Owen
had a domestic atmosphere of law from
infancy.
11. G. Smith, member of Melbourne City
Council, who succeeds just-dead Aid. Jeffries
on the Exhibition Building trust, is a son of
the late Dr. £ £ Smith, who was chairman of
that body for nearly 30 years. The doc. was
member for Mornington in Vic. Assembly
till he was displaced by Downward (still on
deck) 341 years ago, and was an Honorary
Minister under O’Loghlen in 1881-83.
Tommy Bent was one of his colleagues.
Charles Stumm, K.C., the new puisne
Judge in Queensland, is one of the big men
of the North, and has for yfars, as grand-
master of the Freemasons and otherwise,
wielded a wide influence apart from his
position at the Bar. The Government has
not tried another all-political appointment.
Webb, J., was a public servant to whom re-
ward was due; Woolcock, J., was also a
CHARLES STUMM , K.C., who has been
appointed to the Supreme Court Bench
oƒ Queensland, in succession to Justice
Woolcock.
public servant of long standing; Macrossan
was as commanding a figure at the Bar as
Stumm. Tet the Brennan experiment, despite
its peculiar aura, has turned out quite a
success. The Central District Judge is not
yet loved by the Bar and colleagues on the
Bench, but, his judgments are seldom faulted
and his prestige grows. The choice of
Blair, C.J., has also been fully satisfactory.
There is no harder worker in Melbourne
than Capt. C. 11. Peters, who has been
elected president of the council of the Work-
ing Men’s College, an academy at which he
was once a student. In between talking
from 3LO on Zane Grey and Arnold Bennett,
he finds time to think of a new literary sen-
sation per week to assist the sales of Robert-
son and Mullens’s stock of books. And he
has helped many a struggling Australian
writer to recognition.
THE CENOTAPH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Set in the surging city’s sleepless heart
Silent it speaks —above the clamant street,
The roar of traffic and the din of mart,
The rush of hurrying feet!
Churches by scores their storied tablets hold
Of fives well lived, of deeds in lustre
shown;
Here is an epic but in bronze is told,
A message breathed in stone.
A symbol mute, but one that can express,
Aye, as no polished panegyrics could,
Ali that youth gave for honor, righteousness,
Duty—and nationhood.
Here saviour sentries twain their watch shall
keep—
What hero deeds past counting mirrored
thus!—
Above the human tides that swirl and
sweep,
.Lcrc perennius.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


INSURE WITH THE
fd
Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Company—
Established 1878.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
16 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres.
MAY’S BROADCAST FERTILISER SPREADER
II:/?
Illy a
M
To Farmers and Graziers
The season is now approaching for
top-dressing your lands, and here
is the Ideal Machine for the job.
Spreads up to 40ft. 50-100 acres
per day.
SIMPLE—CHEAP—EFFECTIVE.
PRICE: £2l net f.o.r. Sydney.
For use with Spring Cart.
£2 extra for Motor-lorry attachments.
Call and Inspect. AGENTS WANTED.
AGENTS:
y 10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Sulphide Corporation, Ltd.
Dividends. Written Nominal
June, Profits. (Pref. Shares.) Off. Reserves
1918.. 307,809 25 p.c. = 262,500 76,909 362,083
1918.. 307,869 25 ~ ~ 202,500 70,969 302,083
1919.. 319,232 15 „ „ 157,500 86,807 437,007
1920.. 5,559 Nil 2,685 439,881
1921.. 32,920 Pref. 5 p.e.rr30,000 2,917 430,899
1922.. 87,241 4>4og 440> 222
All Shares.
1923.. 215,163 15 p.c.= 157,500 50,000 447,885
Reserve disclosed, £100,000.. 547,885
1924.. 84,142 Nil 183,942 448,085
1925. .110,098 | Ord f ’ 7 ‘ P Nil 45 ’ 000 } C5 > COO 454,133
1926. .187,083 10 p.e, = 105,000 60,000 476,860
1927.. 99,605 | 7^P-C^= 4r, > ooo | 23,181 508,350
1928.. 125,181 lo’ „ „ 105,000 528,631
Bigger tonnages of ore and concentrates were
handled, but the average price for lead (£2l
2s. Id.) was down £5 Ss. per ton, and spelter
about £5. Compared with the preceding year,
total sales (£1,313,059) were £263,704 better,
but the profit on working account (£125,907)
fell away £14,435. That was after £37,551,
or £2233 more than in the year before, had
been struck off for amortisation. Taxation
(£23,000) called for an extra £lO,OOO, but
for the first time since 1923 earnings were
relieved of direct expenditure on account of
the fire at the Central mine. Broken Hill.
In the previous year £49,917 was spent on
fire account, making a total of nearly
£4so,ooo—if profits lost are taken into
account the fire cost the co. at least £900,000.
Of course, release from this handicap has
improved the outlook for shareholders as far
as mining is concerned. Last year an all-
round 10 p.c. div. was paid, making an aver-
age of 5 p.c. p.a. for the ords. over the last
eight years.
Progress in reopening the southern end of
the lode at the Central is reflected in an in-
crease of 37,816 tons in the. quantity of
crude ore raised (125,343 tons), which
exceeds the output in the year before the
fire. Operations on the poorer grade ore in
the Junction mine, at the other end of the
Broken Hill main lode, bought for £75,000
in 1923, practically ceased when lead dropped
to £2l. 14s. 4d. per ton in 1927; last year
only 9136 tons ore was extracted. All told
134,638 tons crudes (9535 tons more than
in the previous year) and 28.578 tons slimes
were put through the mill for 27,683 tons
lead concentrates and 39,494 tons zinc con-
centrates. Costs were £l4 10s. (up 7s. 3d.)
a ton for lead concentrates and 265. Id.
(down 3s. Sd.) a ton for zinc concentrates.
Here is a compai’ison of milling results
and the assay values of concentrates:—-
Readies.
Silver. Lead. Zinc.
IQ9A i 196,451 oz. 2,949 tons. 484 tons.
x ( 41.1 oz. 61.7 p.c. 10.1 p.c.
loor, 1 425,743 oz. 5,836 tons. 1303 tons.
1 1 41.4 oz. 56.8 p.c. 12.7 p.c.
loor, i 890,984 oz. 12,518 tons. 2501 tons.
Aa “° 1 42.5 oz. 59.7 p.c. 11.9 p.c.
1Q97 J 1,104,758 oz. 15,903 tons. 2,053 tons.
1 ■ l 43.7 oz. 62.9 p.c. 10.5 p.c.
1000 5 1,399,086 oz. 17,644 tons 2,734 tons
l 50.5 oz. 03.7 p.c. 9.9 p.c.
, Zinc.
Silver. Lead. Zinc.
109 a J 54,275 oz. 336 tons. 1,936 tons.
( 12.4 oz. 7.7 p.c. 44.4 p.c.
- QO . 1 113.946 oz. 806 tons. 5,500 tons.
t 10.0 oz. 7.1 p.c. 48.5 p.c.
1 oof- $ 217,059 oz. 1,577 tons. 11,535 tons.
I 9.2 oz. 6.7 p.c. 49 p.c.
1() 9 7 i 268,419 oz. 1,920 tons 14.677 tons.
I 9.0 oz. 6.4 p.c. 49 p.c.
1928 f 339,096 oz. 2,096 tons 19,535 tons
J 1 8.6 oz. 5.3 p.c. 49.5 p.c.
The year’s recoveries were 89.8 p.c. of the
silver, 86.1 p.c. of the lead and 92.3 p.c. of
the. zinc—a drop of about 3.6 p.c. in lead,
due mostly to increased oxidation in the
slimes. But all such figures of total extrac-
tions are liable to be misleading, inasmuch
as portion of the allegedly recovered metal
may be (and in fact is) in a product from
which it cannot be profitably recovered.
Only about 7500 tons slimes remain for
treatment. Of recent years their mixture
witli crude ores in the feed has helped costs
dowm, but with better tonnages from the
Central and a little assistance from the lead
market, mining profits for the current year
are expected to improve.
In order to provide shareholders with
revenue-producing assets when the co.’s
mines at Broken Hill peter out, the board
lias given much attention to the development
of manufacturing activities, on which a heap
of money has been spent, chiefly at Cockle
Creek (N.S.W.). Originally the roasting and
smelting works there were an appendage to
the mine. Then, when it became cheaper
to sell the concentrates to the smelters at
l’ort Pirie, it was decided to manufacture
superphosphate and sulphuric acid at the
Creek, and a cement plant was added later.
Following is a record of the progress of
these works, which stood in the books at
£353,153 at the close of last accounts. That
was after £12,342 had been spent on exton-
tensions, etc., and £27.551 written off during
the year:—
Cement
Sulp. Acid, Superphosphates, Clinker,
tons. tons. tons.
1923 . . 11,968 17,186
1924 .. 13,660 19,192
1925 .. 15,822 29,074 4,505
1926 .. 18,33.3 34,833 24,328
1927 .. 20,770 33,879* 42 884
1928 . . 20,541 37,919* 68,375
*lligh grade.
The growth in the figures is encouraging.
A year ago the super, plant had a capacity
of 40,000 tons p.a. and the cement plant
100,000 tons p.a. How much of the £125,181
of profit claimed last year was on account
of operations at Cockle Creek is not dis-
closed, but it was substantially larger than
in the previous term and considerably higher
than that contributed by the mine, the chair-
man says. Unfortunately, the outlook is not
as bright as it might be; over-production
is already having its effect upon prices in
the cement market, and the position there
seems likely to get worse before it becomes
better. Also keen competition in super, pro-
duction is narrowing profit margins in that
market; although here the situation is im-
proved, so far as the manufacturers are con-
cerned, by the cutting up of territory among
the most important of them. Moreover, Sul-
phide Corp. has strong trade connections,
and is otherwise well equipped for a struggle.
At the zinc works at Seaton Carew, Eng-
land, the year’s output of 8371 tons of
spelter and 13,758 tons sulphuric acid was
approximately double the previous year’s out-
turn. At the co.’s new mine in South Wales
plant to treat up to 120 tons of ore a day
is being erected; production is expected to
begin in June next. Also, it is anticipated
that development will disclose a quantity of
ore in excess of the present reserves at the
Central mine, but whether it will all be of
payable grade remains to be proved. The
idea behind the purchase of the Welsh pro-
perty is to ensure supplies of spelter at
Seaton Carew when the Board of Trade con-
tract expires in 1930. Incidentally, since
1918 the British Government has made an
average loss of 2Ss. Gd. a ton on the pur-
chase of Australian zinc concentrates.
The financial position improved:—
1923. 1926. 1927. 1925.
Liquid assets 1,387,570 1,034,948 991,503 1,098,939
Liabilities . . 551,922 519,527 603,275 505,056
Surplus .. £835,648 £515,421 £488,228 £593,883
After allowing for divs. the more or less
liquid surplus (£4SS.SB3) was £45,655 stron-
ger than at the previous balance. Liabilities
still include large reserves held against taxa-
tion claims. Of the £1,1G3.G4S at which
fixed assets stood in the books at the close
of last accounts £526,786 represented mines
and plant at Broken Hill. That is equal
to a net profit of about 10s. per ton on the
million-odd tons of ore available in the Cen-
tral. There is another 385,000 tons mea-
sured up in the Junction.
What the future of metal prices will be
is impossible to say. But, following the
example of American copper producers, a
conference of most of the world’s lead pro-
ducers is to be held in London next month
to consider regulation of output as a means
of stabilising prices.
Paid capital is £1,050,000 in 600,000 15s.
ords. and a like number of £1 10 p.c. non-
cum. prefs., which advance with the ords.
in any distribution beyond that rate. The
market prices the ords. around 195., and for
the prefs. 245. Gd. is asked. The return at
those prices is 7.9 p.c. and 8.1 p.c. respec-
tively on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Newcastle and Hunter River Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1917.. 9,948 9 p.c. = 9,000 948 126,981
1918.. 14,530 10 „„ 10,000 4,530 131 511
1919.. 10.012 10 ~,, 10,000 12 1 .
Written off, £17,495 j HLO2S
Reserves capitalised, £50,000 .. 64,028
1920.. 29,210 10 p.c. = 15,000 I __ „„„
Written off contingencies, £248 \ 13,962 77,990
1921.. 23,937 10 p.c. = 15,000 1 g
Written off, £42 J 8 ’ 895 86,885
1922.. 20,291 10 p.c. = 15,000 5,291 92,176
1923.. 19.281 10 „ ~15.000 4,281 96,457
1924.. 28,892 10 „ „ 15,000 13,892 110,349
1925.. 29,420 10 „ „ 15,000 14,420 124,769
1926.. 29,744 10 ~ ~ 15,000 14,744 139.513
1927.. 32,617 10 „ ~15,000 17,617 157,130
1928.. 21,435 10 „ ~ 15,000 6,435 163,565
The table opens at the time when the
influence of some of the big industrial con-
cerns which have set up at Newcastle began
to make itself obvious in this shipping co.'s
figures. After a long run of 6 p.c. divs.
the rate was lifted to 9 p.c. in 1916, and
to 10 p.c. two years later, and has remained
steady ever since.
Year after year the board claims as profit
only a few pounds more than is necessary
to pay the div. Last year, for instance,
the net result was written at £15,018, or
£22 less than in the previous term, but
tliat was after a clear £BOOO had dropped
from somewhere into the insurance reserve,
making it £57,266. It lias been built up
to that figure without interruption since
1920, and the “Wild Cat” suspects that the
accumulation is true profit and treats it
accordingly. Also there was an unexplained
addition of £8417 to the general reserve
(£105,986).
Taking visible reserve movements into
account, the year’s net earnings slipped
£11,182; but even so the 10 p.c. div. was
a comfortable matter, the £21.435 of profit
being 14.2 p.c. on paid capital compared
with 21.7, 19.8, 19.6, 19.2 and 12.8 p.c. back
to 1923. The directors state that general
trade depression and dry conditions restricted
trade last year. They said the same thing
in the previous year.
A remarkable feature is that the earning
power of capital has increased since the
hatching of the bonus egg early in 1920,
when an adjustment of reserves resulted in
the disapperancc of £17.000 visibly put by
during the five years to 1919, and disclosure
of the fact that profits prior to 1914 had
been understated by nearly £BO,OOO. For
the eight years to 1919 profits averaged 13.2
p.c. on capital, but over the last nine years
the average has been 17.4 p.c., notwithstand-
ing that the percentage for that period has
been calculated on an extra £50,000 of gift
capital. No hint is given as to what amount
has been set aside for depreciation, etc. The
fleet, however, is regularly reported in good
working order.
This.is the position as balance-sheet figures
disclose it:—
1919. 1927. 1928.
Capital £lOO,OOO £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. .. 23,557 21,794 20;748
Ship property .. .. 89,759 179,369 192,926
Freeholds and leaseholds 16,309 15,444 15,444
Plant, stores, etc. .. 6,040 9,191 11,616
Book debts . . .. 17,350 19,410 18,248
Cash, etc. .. .. .108,332 113,010 103,579
Since 1919 the £99,537 visibly sent to
reserves, and more, has gone into the chief
earning asset. The book value of the fleet,
etc., over the same period has increased
£103,167, and there has been little alteration
in the liquid surplus. Last year one of the
co.’s old paddle hulks was sold and a new
cargo steamer, the Kindur, was placed in
commission. The book value of shipping
property increased £13,557, but the liquid
surplus (£101,079) was only £9547 lighter
than at the previous balance.
The market, which looks at the co.’s snug
position and the fine pile of visible reserves,
which were £13,565 in excess of paid capital
at Dec. 31, anticipates the future and pays
445. for the pound shares. They have a
backing of 41s. lOd. in net tangibles. The
immediate return at the current price is only
41 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. On the same
basis the investor who looks for a shade
under 7 p.c. on his purchase, counts on a
50 p.c. gift issue. Even with such an issue
a 10 p.c. div. would call for £5921 less than
the average annual net profit over the last
five years.
Australian Cement, Ltd.
Towards
Nov. Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£
loodwill ( £75,000) and prelim, exes. ( £393) 75,393
Less; Reserves (£367) .. .. .. 75,026
1925.. 156,581 15 p.c. = 112,501 44,080 30,946
Reserves.
1926.. 106,249 10 „ „ 75,001 31,248 302
1927.. 109,404 10 „ „ 75,001 34,403 34,705
1928.. 94,603 10 „ „ 75,001 19,602 54,307
Early in 1925 the present co. took over
the 30-year-old and prosperous business of
the Australian Portland Cement Co. Pty.,
Ltd., whose works and quarries were at
Fyansford, near Geelong. The price was
£750,000, including - £75,000 for goodwill.
Two years earlier the proprietary co. had
written up its capital 10s. per share.
The new co. found itself in the remarkably
fortunate position of being the only cement
manufacturer of importance in Victoria; and
with a view to maintaining its hold upon
the trade, the board immediately mapped
out a vigorous programme of works develop-
ment, the idea being to keep the capacity of
the plant in advance of the demand for its
product. Further, in preparation for the
struggle which threatens as a result
of over-production in the industry, the de-
clared aim is to strengthen the finances and
watch efficiency on both the manufacturing
and marketing sides of the business. Be-
cause of this a wide margin has been main-
tained between declared net earnings and
distributions. In 1925 a 15 p.c. div. was
paid, but in each of the three years since the
rate has been kept at 10 p.c. p.a.: thus
reserves £54,307 in excess of the £60,000 at
which goodwill stood in the books had been
visibly accumulated at Nov. 30.
. kast year, owing to slackness in the build-
ing trade, sales fell away, and to meet
increased competition from producers in neigh-
boring States the co. reduced its selling price,
The _ result was a slip of £38,952 in the
year’s gross profit (£221,249), which was
the lowest for the past four years. There
was no movement of importance in general
exes. (£74,042), but the £52.605 set aside
for depreciation was £24,000 less than was
so put by in the previous year. Thus the
shrinkage in the net result was reduced to
£14.801.
That raises the question whether the
£94,603 of profit claimed, which was 12.6
p.c. on capital compared with 14.5, 14.1
and 20 p.c. back to 1925, was really earned.
Appearances are that it was. The year's
smaller provision for depreciation was still
equal to 10. S p.c. on the £484,182 at which
plant, tramways', etc., stood in the books at
Nov. 30, 1927. Also, as a result of the
board's depreciation policy, the book value
of fixed assets has decreased from £5 7s. lOd.
per ton of capacity in 1925 to £3 14s. 9d.
when the books were last ruled off. At the
close of accounts in 1925 fixed assets had
a book value of £673,698; the figure was
£747,495 at Nov. 30 last. Meanwhile
£177,30S had been visibly written off and the
net increase in the debt amounted to only
£48,471. Appearances are therefore that
substantial amounts have been spent on
plant, etc., and charged up to revenue,
In order to reduce costs a tunnel is being
driven to connect the co.’s new quarry with
the works; also a 3000-k.w. turbo-alternator
at . nn eBtimatwl COS $
of £20,000. Further savings are expected
from the introduction of a new filter for the
recovery of water from the slurrv
It all suggests that the board is fully
alive to tho, rapidly changing outlook in the
industry. The success of the older cos. has
fc?J ght o A i,lto , the
losult is tliat Australia now has
SllS/'K 1
mated at 750 000 tons Taking the cnn-h-nl
o<J .st of plant at sav £5 ner ton S ofcanacltv
capital invested in l the industry is not earn-
inf? anything. Not only must this affect
the cost of production, but there is a real
danger that increased competition will develop
into a price war, and thus make business
for the manufacturer unprofitable. Much
depends upon the extent to which the re-
cently-ereated. Cement Manufacturers’ Asso-
ciation can liven demand by widening and
Popularising the uses of cement. To what
extent Australian Cement, Ltd., is likely to
be affected remains to be seen. All that
can be. said definitely is that the co. appears
to be 111 a favorable position to meet com-
Petition in Victoria.
~T b° co.’s position as balance-sheet figures
disclose it is exhibited in these next com-
Prisons:—
0 .. 1 92 * 5 - 1927. 1928.
Paid ca P ]t£ d •• .. £750,005 £750, 005 £750,005
Overdraft .. .. 32,329 107, 805 88,141
Sundr - V creditors •• 49.38 7 4 5,8 1 5 4 2,046
Land, buildings, etc. .. 200,539 288,363 278,430
Plant > equipment, etc. 378,519 428,610 398,862
Tramways etc. .. 34,640 55,572 70,203
Bt ° cks a « d stores .. 67,916 86,778 96,659
Shares in other cos. .. 300 4,050 24,050
B °ok debts .. .. 122,813 108,020 99,131
Cash ’ etc n > o49 4 - 43 C 4 > 663
r £ be increase of £9BBl in stocks, etc., and
the contraction of £BBS9 in book debts
reflects the year’s poorer trading. Neverthe-
less, £19,664 was clipped off the overdraft,
and the more or less liquid surplus (£70,266)
was £24,652 stronger than at the previous
balance. During the year £20.000 74 p.c.
prefs. were taken up in the Steam "Line
Filter Co., Loqdon, which has since made a
bonus issue of which Australian Cement’s
amounts to £2OOO in Is shares,
. lc Co ‘ s scn P—it is all £1 ord. shares—
-4S shortly to be listed. The net tangible
backing amounts to 21s. 5d., nearly all of
it in plant, etc., worth what it can earn.
Australian General Insurance
general insurance,
non 1V , loße-
’ f ' Dlv «. serves. Reserves,
1927.. 10, 577 10 p.e. = 5000 5577 26,641
1927.. 10, 580 10 „ „ 5000 5*580 32’22i
1928.. 16,145 10 „ „ 6000 10,145 42,366
This co. set up in Sydney in 1913; until
1926 it was a reinsurance office for the very
solidly established Mercantile Mutual. Then
it was decided to transact business direct
with the public, and branches were estab-
lished at Melbourne and Adelaide. Good
progress has been made, and last year share-
holders were delighted with the request for
another Is. on each of the 200,000 £1 shares,
making them paid to 65., and advancing paid
capital to £60,000. Net premium income,
helped by the N. S. Wales Workers’ Com-
pensation law, bounded up £32,311 in 1926;
the spring was £19,184 in the following term
and £4BBO last year, when the total reached
£120,614.
Notwithstanding the small increase in
business during the last term, and the gener-
ally unfavorable experience amongst under-
writers, the profit was £5565 better than the
1927 figure, mounting to 26.9 p.c. on average
capital compared with 21.1 p.c. in each of
the two preceding years. Hence the io p.c.
div., which called for an extra £lOOO, was


Buy a WITTE and Save the difference”
WITTE
THROTTLING
GOVERNOR
Engines
•a
t
J
Witte for Pumping.
rnry.
Witte for Irrigation.
fd
Witte for Milking.
fd
Witts tor Hawing.
More Power at Less Cost—uses
Fuel, easiest to get in your locality
THE New WITTE was built to provide power users with a simple, efficient engine
that will operate on low cost fuels—and give the same satisfactory service as a
gasoline engine. '
Heretofore engines of the throttling governor type have been complicated as to parts,
and required more than the usual skill on the part of the operator to handle them. Ihe
WITTE is not only simpler in construction, but has fewer parts than a gasoline engine.
An engine a boy can operate—does not require an expert to handle it, and runs equally
well on Kerosene, Gasoline, Distillate Alcohol or Gas.
LIFETIME GUARANTEE.
Every engine or outfit here described is guaranteed to operate on Kerosene Distdlate and Bim ‘ f uels,
as well as Gasoline, and is also guaranteed for life against any and all defects of 1 or workman
ship. You can buy and instal any one of these superior engines or outfits for the kind of work you
have, with full assurance that it will give you the best of service.
WITTE IS BETTER VALUE BY COMPARISON.
Reference to the prices shown will readily point out to the man who knows to-day's farm-engine values
that Witte is priced at Foy’s at pounds below any other reputable power plant of equal horse-power.
If you write us we will gladly forward fuller details than space affords here.
H.P.
£3O
HERE IS THE SAVING.
PRICES OF THE WITTE:
5 7 10
£5O £65 £99/10-
15
£l4O
Write for WITTE, Booklet and further particulars—gladly mailed to you on request.
AGENTS:
ďf
Witte for Lighting.
Hsas=af
Witte for Com Shelling
ď
Witte in tile Dairy.
J
Witte for Husking.
MARK FOY’S LIMITED,
THE “PIAZZA” STORE
LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
Forster’s Steel Produces
STEEL LOCKERS
MODERN IDEAL STORAGE EQUIPMENT
Suitable for Offices, Factories, Warehouses, Clubs and Schools,
where Health and Well-being are of Paramount Importance.
Great Security, Fire
Resisting.
Permanent, Durable and
Hygienic.
Lockers are built in units, and
may be erected side by side in
large or small groups, which
can be altered should the
occasion require. Uniformity
is always maintained.
;x\
s
Wm
r_
m
__
The picture illustrated shows one of the many installations we have
erected in the large City Warehouses —this is at Marcus Clark's, Ltd.,
fine new premises at Central Square, Sydney.
Lockers can be supplied in
single, two, three or four tiers.
Standard Color:
Olive Green,
Stove Enamelled.
Every worker likes to have
safety and privacy for his or
her clothes and belongings.
Forster’s Bedsteads Limited
MARY ANN STREET, ULTIMO, SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 4247 (3 lines).


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Pisk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelati
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
aauiAin (vnvuisnv) w w
scmuavH
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hacliields’ Mansanese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and \ Alexandria, Svdney, N.S.W,
Foundries J Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch ( 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Vic.
Office )T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q_
Don’t Lose
Your Money!
MORE THAN HALF
OF ALL REGISTERED
COMPANIES FAIL.
<r
If you invest anything
at all you can’t afford
to be without
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
FEBRUARY NUMBER NOW ON SALE,
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or "Bulletin” Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock 4- GP Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Comer Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
The economical service and dependability of
Pioneer Wood Pipe are features that engineers and
users of piping cannot afford to overlook. Its
records embrace every class of fluid conveyance and
show enormous savings on cost, installation and
maintenance. Our latest book of complete informa-
tion will be mailed on request. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W.;
and at Footscray, Victoria.— Advt.
* * He He
W. Soren Jensen, late Mt. Morgan G. M. Co
Consulting Mining Engineer, 33 Boyle Street Cre-
niorne, Sydney. Box 220D, G.P.O., Svdney.’ Tel.
Y1557. —Advt.
He He He He
Patents. Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patent*
obtained. Colmson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years* practice Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
/s the best eradicator of pricldy pear. All appli-
cations for. this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament
1888) hydraulic, electric and general engineers lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ln ", !■* Martin Place, Sydney. —Advt.
The English, Scottish and
Australian Bank, Limited.
Branches of the above Bank
have recently been opened at
Rosebery,
Maroubra Beach,
Epping,
and a daily Agency has been
opened at
Balgowlah.
C. W. WREN,
Joint General Manager.
a very comfortable matter. The year’s im-
proved showing was due to a drop of 5.8
p.c. in the loss rate.
Here is a detailed view of underwriting
performances for the last three years:
Loss Exes.
Ratio, Ratio,
Premiums. Claims. Exes. p.c. p c.
1926. . £96,550 £55,475 £35,J76 57,5 36.4
1927.. 115,734 69,236 41,470 59.8 35 8
1928.. 120,614 65,175 45,899 54 38.0
The expense rate climbed another 2.8 p.c.,
reaching 3S p.c. It is still comparatively
low, because most of the business comes
by way of re-insurance. The underwriting
surplus (£9540) was 7.9 p.c. of the vear’s
not premium income, as against 4.8 p.c. and
6.1 p.c. in 1927 and 1926 respectively. An-
other pleasing feature is that interest and
rents (£6606), which last year brought in
an extra £1054, were £6OO in excess of the
increased div. requirements. This surplus,
together with the whole of the year’s under-
Profit went to strengthen reserves
(£42,806), which were then within £5BOO-
- of the 40 p.c. usually looked for. Under
normal conditions that point should be passed
by the next balancing date.
Policy-holders, meantime, are well pro-
tected. In addition to net tangible assets
totalling £102,866, there was £140,000 of
uncalled capital at Dec. 31, together equal to
201 p.c. of the year's net premium income.
Here are balance-sheet figures:—
D .. , 1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital .. £50,000 £50,000 £60,000
Liabilities .. .. 20,777 15,983 16,194
Freeholds . . .. 2,540 2,540 2,540
Mortgages .. .. 23,910 25,435 20.500
Debentures .. .. g.OOO G,OOO 6,000
Public securities .. 36,666 36,598 50 039
Book debts . . . . 5,728 5,052 5,890
Cash, etc 29,073 29,079 34,731
Most of the new capital that came in last
year and the surplus earnings went into
Government securities, cash, etc.
Confident of the co.’s ability to make
further progress, the market anticipates
future calls by paying 13s. 6d. for the scrip,
which has a backing of approximately 30s. 3d.
per share in net tangibles. At that price
the immediate return is only 4.5 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div. basis; if another Is. per share
was got in the return would advance to
a shade under 5 p.c.
North Shore Gas Co. (Sydney).
, Dividends
r— To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. “A” “B” Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 48,592 8% 8% 42,054 6,538 8,581
Premiums on shares, £257 .. .. 8,838
Shares consolidated.
1919.. 46,118 8 p.c. = 43,757 2,361 11,199
1920.. 43,620 8„ „ 44,054 10,765
1921.. 40,294 8 „ „ 44,054 2,240 13,005
1922.. 58,988 8 „ „ 44,054 14,934 27,939
1923.. 40,543 8„ „ 44,054 2,489 30,428
Premiums on shares, £3445.. .. 33 873
1924. 45.664 8 d.c. = 46,113 2,551 36,424
Premiums on shares, £1983.. .. 38,407
1925.. 48,501 8 p.c. = 48,387 114 38,Y>21
Premiums on shares, £7130.. .. 45,651
1926.. 48,344 8 p.c. = 51,675 42,320
Premiums on shares, £12,463 .. 54,783
1927.. 56,785 8 p.c. = 56,695 90 54,873
1928.. 59,254 8 „ „ 59,254 54,873
Owing to steadily mounting costs —chiefly
coa] and labor —it has been a struggle of
recent years to keep the margin between
income and exes, wide enough to cover the
standard (8 p.c.) div. requirements. Since
1924 they have indeed called for £3127 more
than the declared net earnings. However,
provided capital is adequately protected
against asset wastage, shareholders need have
little concern, because the N. S. Wales Gas
Act provides for an increase in the selling
price, if the Court finds that costs make it
necessary in order to maintain the standard
rate of div. Thus the price charged by
the co. was advanced from 4s. per 1000 c.f.
in 1918 to 6s. 3d. in June, 1927, and has
remained steady ever since.
But apparently it was only a little extra
help from the return from residuals that
enabled the board to write last year’s net
result at a figure exactly equal to the 8 p.c.
div. requirements. And that was after set-
ting aside £9OOO as against £13,000 in 1927
for special purposes and depreciation, making
the total so provided over the last four years
£22,000 compared with a total of £37,096
for the preceding four years. The amounts
charged to maintenance and repairs for the
corresponding periods were £283,449 and
£208,239 respectively, and the engineer regu-
larly reports the plant in good order and
condition.
Here is a comparison of revenue and
expenditure figures:—
1924. 1927. 1928.
Revenue from gas . . £239,093 £286,887 £287,267
Revenue from residuals 48,863 51,456 55,215
Other revenue . . . . 2,916 3,602 3,686
Coal, etc 105,560 117,668 119,316
Taxes 7,666 11,871 13,058
All ether exes. . . 108,711 143,809 142,489
Bast year exes. (£286,960) were £3620
heavier than in the previous term. Income
(£346,214) was £4089 better, but £3759 of
the increase came from the sale of residuals,
mostly tar. The £55.215 gathered from tic
sale of by-products was a whisper under 16
p.c. of the year’s total takings; five years
ago the proportion was 14.4 p.c. Returns
from this source help to offset the cost of
production, and, therefore, benefit the con-
sumer by assisting to keep the price down
and that is something which the Govern-
ment needs to encourage. The small in-
crease of £3BO in gas sales compared with a
spring of £23,610 in the previous year was
mainly due to an alteration in the method
of book-keeping. The capital outlay on new
mains and meters, etc., in the last term was
£34,518 as against £37,467 in 1927.
During the year the paid-up share capital
remained steady at £740,675. The £120,000
of debentures, which matured early in the
term, were renewed, and arrangements made
for the issue of a further £120,000 as re-
quired over the next three years. Last year
an extra £40,000 of debenture and £12,150 of
temporary loan moneys was got in, as this
next comparison shows :
1924. 1927. 1928.
Debentures .. .. £200,000 £120,000 £160,000
Temp?rary loans .. 13,250 32,200 44,350
Consumers’ deposits .. 19,213 18,003 17,967
Bank overdraft.. .. 15,712 2.455
Other debts .. .. 29,529 27,087 26,224
Total liabilities . . £261,992 £213,002 £250,996
Liquid assets (inc. stocks) 72,113 87,462 86,811
Excess liabilities .. £189,879 £125,540 £164,185
During the 12 months £13,257 was clipped
off the overdraft, and £48,135 was spent on
capital account. Thus at Dec. 31 freeholds
stood in the books at £113,918, and plant,
buildings, etc., at £954,458. A new gasholder l
is to be installed—cost not stated —at Oyster
Cove. With the growth of population on
the northern side of the Harbor, the co.’s
mains must extend, and all new share issues
are, under the Act, offered at auction. The
market prices the pourfd shares at 235. 9d.;
the return at that figure being 6.7 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis.
Golden Washed Sands, Ltd.
This is a Melbourne float with a nominal
capital of £50,000 in £1 shares. The whole
lot are offered and have been underwritten.
The idea is to take over and work two
sand deposits, for which the vendors get
£lO,OOO in paids and £7500 cash. One
deposit, near Cranbourne, comprises 156 acres
freehold, estimated to contain 2,469,500 tons
sand above water-level. Of this quantity
about a million tons is suitable for the manu-
facture of glassware, the balance being good
stuff for concrete and bituminous road work.
The other deposit consists of sand rights on
the Ivoo-wee-rup canal. Here it is esti-
mated that 300 tons washed quartz-sand and
gravel can be taken out daily. This material
is in demand for concrete work. The State
collects a royalty of 3d. per ton on it.
The cost of equipping the two properties
is put at £16,500, and on an annual output
of .84,000 tons from each, the prospectus
figures gross profit at £21,000. Management
charges, etc., reduce the net result to £16,000,
or 32 p.c. on. a paid capital of £50,000.
Much, of course, will depend upon com-
petition ; but the promoters claim that sand-
pits in close proximity to Melbourne are be-
coming rapidly worked out, and that the
call upon this remoter source must inevitably
continue to grow with the extension of the
uses of concrete, etc.
Burma Corporation has listed its shares
on the New York Exchange, and Wiluna
Gold Corporation is tipped to follow suit.
The history of the Burma Corporation, in
which some Australian capital is invested,
will always be associated with the name of
H. C. Hoover, now President of the U.S.A.
Together with the late F. A. Govett he was
instrumental in its flotation in London. Pre-
sident Hoover hung on to his interest for
many years and then sold out.
* * * *
“Alastor”: On the Kayenta permit, 20
miles, from Orallo, there was recently a good
showing of crude oil, and now on Stewart’s
permit, also in the Orallo district, what Dr.
Jensen believes to be a pay-streak of crude
oil has been met with. Gubberamunda, also
in this belt of country, has what looks like
a seepage of oil.
* * * *
The flotation of an oil area bordering on
King’s Sound is being attempted in the
West. When Dr. Clapp inspected this local-
ity he reported unfavorably on its prospects.
But the surveys on which he advised were
absurdly insufficient.
* * * *
New Red. White and Blue, Bendigo,
has had two very disappointing yields
from the spurry mass in the rise over the
720 ft. level. The last two crushings were
380 tons for 2950 z., or an average of 3.3
dwts.; the previous crushing of 245 tons
for 22$oz. works out at about 2 dw r ts. A
late shot in the rise over the 720 ft. showed
stone Oft. wide. A crosscut is to be put
out east to test this.
The new trieolored pup, N.R.W.B. No. 2,
crushed 61 tons for Boz., or a little over
2idwt. per ton.
* * * *
Something about a proposal to amalgamate
with the Great Boulder and why negotiations
broke down was told by chairman Bell at
the Perseverance meeting. Ernest Williams,
the Perseverance manager, and Dick Hamil-
ton, for many years boss of the Gt. Boulder,
jointly recommended the fusion of interests
on the ground that ore which was unpayable
so long as each co. worked as a separate con-
cern could be worked at a profit if they
operated as one concern. It was suggested
that a new co. be formed to work the two
mines as one, the leases remaining the pro-
perty of the old cos., which would become
holding concerns. Gt. Boulder was to con-
tribute £23,000 and Perseverance £12,500;
the holdings in the operating co. being thus
in the proportion of approximately 65 p.c.
Boulder and 35 p.c. Perseverance. Further,
Boulder was to have three representatives
on the board of the operating co. and Per-
severance two. But Perseverance didn’t con-
sider this fair, so a counter-proposal giving
the co. a bigger shareholding in and more
representation on the directorate of the pro-
posed operating co. was submitted. The new
proposal was rejected by Boulder, and there
the matter stands.
* •* * *
Westralia’s minerals exports, other than
gold, reached the £7,000,000 mark the other
day. But most of the old tin-, lead- and
copper-producing centres are paralysed, and
with the exception of a little activity in
asbestos prospecting in the north and coal-
mining in the south, mining for other than
gold is practically at a standstill. There is
some talk of a revival of copper mining, but
a further substantial rise will have to take
place in the price of that metal before most
of the Westralian deposits can be profitably
worked.
* * * *
A slightly higher grade of ore enabled
Associated (W.A.) to show a little profit
last year, and, since the improvement in
values has continued, small but regular
monthly surpluses are earned. Apart from
the Associated mine the co.’s chief asset is
a substantial interest in Wijuna Gold Mines,
which the directors regard as a “highly
promising investment.”
* * * *
Malcolm Newman, who brought off Aus-
tralia’s biggest tin deal in London when he
was there just over a year ago—Alluvial Tin
got £514,000 cash and 250,000 shares for
its properties—left Sydney again for the
same fat city on Tuesday of this week. He
will return by way of the Malay Peninsula.
* * * #
Kampong Lanjut, promoted by Alluvial
Tin in 1026 and expected to return a pro-
fit of £BOOO a month with two dredges going
and with tin at £2OO, London, made a start
with the erection of No. 1 dredge in Jan.,
1028 Delay in the delivery of materials
lias hampered progress, and digging is not
expected to commence until May next. The
assembly of No. 2 is now being proceeded
with. Ihe dredges, as originally ordered,
were steam driven and of about 150 000 c ”
monthly capacity. It was later decided to
alter the power to electricity, to be supplied
the Perak Iliver Hydro Electric Power
, i! le c 0, ’ s area > as estimated by Mal-
colm Newman, contains 71,000,000 c.y. of
fib. dirt Paid capital is £244,375 in £1
shares,_ of which 57,500, issued in November
are paid to ss. each. The market prices the
fully-paids around 255. 6d.
* * * *
Haad Yai, a Malay Siamese subsidiary
about the prospects of which there was much
discussion in the ‘Wild Cat” columns and else-
where when the boring estimates were criti-
by Isaac Boadle, reports a net loss of
±6(27 for the 11 months to Sept 30. 1028
making the debit at p. and 1. £lO 480'
Dredging began in Dec., 1927, and trouble
was experienced from the start. Drastic
alterations were found necessary and the
dicdge_ was closed down in December las f
H is hoped that the reconditioned machine
will be able to dig from 80,000 to 100,000
yards monthly, though to get complete sat-
is action it will probably be necessary to
replace the present engines and bucket band.
Evidently the hard clay mentioned by the
original borers of the property is there all
right, but values recovered have been quite
as good as the subsequent check-boring dis-
closed. The biggest turnover prior to Dec
last was 42,000 yards in April. With the
partially reconstructed dredge 63 000 yards
was turned over in January. Hither!?
coveries have been consistently over th»
to U fi3lh iar T'V bu - t ,Tanu .ary’s average dropped
to .631 b. The impossibility of working the
monitor oil the screen has caused extensive
tin losses, and the tailings will have to be
f tr i a ed latei \ During the period covered
b <>B 400 a v C °a nt r th ,o/ Ireds '° turned over
yards for 184 tons of t. 0., worth
£24 (42. Paid capital is £lBO,OOO in f.y!
P shares. At Sept. 30 the co. owed £11.173
to Malay £3540 to the Bun Tin
Lum Co., and £3541 to sundry creditors
£ieceo OPert i y n ya ' s in at £113.000; dredge'
and £15,504 had been spent on
development. Buyers offer ss. for the scrip.
* * * *
. Tuchong Tin, one of Austral Malay’s sub-
sidiaries, not yet producing, i s offering share-
holders 30,000 new £1 shares at par, one for
five. The money is wanted to meet an un-
expected increase in the cost of equipping
the mine. Paid capital is now £150,000 in
tl shares. A large modern dredge, electri-
cally driven and with special devices to dis-
pose, of the barren overburden without pass-
ing it through sluices and screens, is being
erected. Sellers are asking 20s. cum rights
for the scrip.
* * * *
A wire received by the “Wild Cat” from
Litchfield and Lugg, of Darwin—they dis-
covered the tantalite deposit at West Arm
(B. 30/l/’29) —states that the Mines De-
partment assay rates the stuff as 80 p.e.
pure—the richest ore of tantalum known.
The claim is now being opened up, and
prospects are improving. Good tin is also
reported in the vicinity.


AT OUR BOARDING-HOUSE.
“A boycott of the Federal Arbitration Court is proposed by the Australian Council of Trades Unions, many of which would not even be in existence but for the arbitration laws.”
MRS. ARBITRATION: “Don’t be silly, sitting out there in the rain. Come inside and be comfortable.”
MR. TRADES UNIONIST (boarder): “I don’t like the way you cooked that last pie, so I’m going to stay here for good.”
Poverity
Point
“Lima Kaki”: Gregan McMahon merely
followed Conrad in using the phrase “Mem
Puteli” in “Victory” (B. 6/2/’29). It
occurs in all cases in the book. I have read
Conrad from end to end and I am satisfied
he knew nothing more about the Malays than
he would pick up as a ship’s officer super-
intending their languid operations on the
cargo. His use of the language is confined
to a few words of the commonest bazaar
patois. What knowledge he had of their
customs he derived from the works of Hugh
Clifford and Rajah Brooke, two Englishmen
who learnt more about the race than it
knows itself. Yet. such is the power of the
romantic imagination, out of such slender
material Conrad created a world of types
which have been the standard for every
dramatist and inkslinger ever since.
“L.H.P.”: I do not quite agree with
“Jacas” (B. 13/2/’29) that “Fred Marshall
was the most versatile actor who ever
appeared in Australia.” I think Brough,
Titheradge, Boucicault and Dampiet could
beat him.
“Garrick”: The Showman errs when he
says John Fernside and eight pigs are the
only Australians in the cast of “Pigs.” Reg
Newson (Spencer Atkins) is an ex-Aus-
tralian light-horseman. The Bandman co.
picked him up in Egypt shortly after the
w r ar.
“C.R.”: Beresford Fowler, whose un-
quenchable optimism keeps Melbourne’s
Little Art Theatre together, is embarking
on an ambitious venture. He is going to
turn his amateur organisation into a pro-
fessional one and open with a season of
highbrow drama in Hobart. If his pro-
fessionals include some improved males, lie
may succeed in coaxing sufficient coin out
of the pockets of the Tasmanians to pay his
players. At the least, it will be a nice
holiday for the Repertorians.
“Blum”: The process of producing sound
from light, used in one of the “talkie”
systems now let loose in Australia, has been
utilised by a Viennese inventor in the de-
sign of what he calls a “wireless piano.”
It is not a piano and it has nothing to do
with radio. A keyboard is connected with
a series of electric lamps, one for each key,
each lamp emitting a ray which is trans-
lated into a musical note. The most interest-
ing thing about the new instrument, which
is said to have a magnificent tone, is the
suggestion of the inventor that he proposes
to turn out contraptions in which quarter-
and eighth-tones supplement the 8S half-
tones of the pianoforte range. That means
having 36 notes to the octave in place of
12; an entirely new sort of keyboard,
arranged in tiers in organ fashion; a new
and vastly complex system of harmony, and
a new method of digital technique. Percy
Grainger, who has some revolutionary ideas
at times, prophesied some years ago that
the semi-tonal tempered scale would event-
ually be _ supplemented by smaller fractions,
but the innovation opens up so many prob-
lems and runs counter to so many ingrained
musical conventions that it doesn’t seem
likely to meet with wide acceptance.
“S.T.S.: Has sufficient justice been done
to Henry Arthur Jones as dramatist?
Finding his feet with the romantic old-
fashioned “Silver King,” for which Henry
Herman probably supplied most of the
framework, he moved on to challenge Pinero
definitely for the lead among the playwrights
of the ’nineties; and. when you consider
what a poor. French-derived thing British
drama had been in the ’eighties, the dif-
ference is amazing. J suggest that “The
Liars” will live as the Society comedy-
drama of its day. Intensely witty and funny,
it rises at least three points to" real drama.
In fact, a woman who probably saw herself
in the mismated heroine said to me, “All
of you are wrong in thinking />f this as a
comedy.” It is a supreme play for any
amateurs who are equal to it. But the
regular stage shies now at any further
revivals, because its plot happens to be one
that a motor-car and a telephone would
destroy instantly. 'Eventually it must have
its day as a costume-play of late nineteenth-
century manners.
“Ula”: I bog to differ with “Naklioda,”
who said that “White Cargo” was a technical
delight (B. 6/2/’29). On several occasions
the players, including Witzel, left half the
whisky in their glasses.
“Coot”: Gladys Moncrieff has appealed
to Melbourne theatregoers to do something
for Fanny Wiseman, now 82 and bedridden
in a nursing home. Her first appearance
in Australia was as a fairy in Melbourne’s
first pantomime in that city’s second theatre,
the Queen’s, in 1854. She was then eight.
At the old Princess Theatre in 1878 she was
the first Topsy known to Australia. Previous
to that, when’only 14, she appeared as Lady
Macbeth in the Ballarat theatre. Amongst
other stars of bygone days she played with
Brooke, Coppin, Hoskins, Matthews and
Sheridan. Her last appearance on the stage
was only three years ago, when she was
the nurse in Allan Wilkie’s “Romeo and
Juliet,” and one of the witches in “Macbeth.”
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : The theatrical sensa-
tion of the week has been the production of
Captain Reginald Berkeley’s play about Flor-
ence Nightingale, “The Lady with a Lamp,”
in which a one-time Australian favorite, Eille
Norwood, made a very real success. Nor-
wood, a man of wide culture and fair for-
tune, was quite a star in society when he
appeared with Brough and Boucicault. who
produced his playlet “Hook and Eye.” As
“Lord Palmerston” in this play of Berkeley’s
he looks and speaks exactly as Palmer-
ston might have done. The work is accepted
as the best thing done by Berkeley, and
among modern stage works some of the
critics place it as second only to Shaw’s
“St. Joan.” The name-part, which, in a
sense, is the whole of the play, is portrayed
by Edith Evans, who roused the audience.
The production was a one-night affair at
the Arts Theatre, but soon all London will
be flocking to it at one of the West End
houses.
“Si Anu”: Talking of Australian theatri-
cals being left stranded in Asia. I wan-
dered into a native theatre in the most mal-
odorous portion of Batavia (Old Town).
After some jazz from a semi-white orchestra,
some gamelang from a Javanese ditto and
a bit of ronggeng shuffling (the local equiva-
lent of a ballet). the star item came on. She
was a little white girl in tights. She high-
kicked, sang a Cockney ditty (incomprehen-
sible to her audience) and departed in an
enormous silence. I went behind and talked
to her. She was an Australian who had
been left on the beach along with other
wreckage of a company some years prev-
iously. Slie signed a contract with a Dutch-
man, and after that joined a Malay opera
troupe. Then she took up with a half-caste
Arab in the vaudeville business —the Othello
in question was eyeing us suspiciously in the
background. Asked why she had not gone to
the British Consul in the first place, she
said the spell of the East was on her in
those days. Yet she must have had a" bad
time in Australia. She hadn’t the slightest
desire to return to it.
“Adelaide”: The friendly feeling, amount-
ing sometimes almost to a joint control,
among Adelaide picture theatres has taken a
further step. Union Theatres, Ltd., have
bought up the local co., Greater Wonder-
graph, the price being stated at £lBB,OOO, sub-
ject to approval by the latter’s shareholders.
The new deal will mean that West’s, Wonder-
graph, York, Pav. and Grand will all be
under one local “Union” co. with .a . half-
million capital. The new Bundle-street house,
the Begent, will be the only important one
left outside.
“L. de Bideau”: An E. J. Carroll contribu-
tion to the forthcoming virtuoso season will
be Arthur Benjamin. The pianist-composer
makes the fourth Australian musician of in-
ternational fame to be invited home this year.
Sydney-born, he was last here just after the
war when he served a term as professor at
the N.S.W. Conservatorium. One of his com-
positions for a string quartette won him a
Carnegie award. During the war he joined
up, and it was seven years before he feit suf-
ficiently recovered from the trenches to go
back on to the concert stage.
“C. 8.”: “This Year of Grace,” the revue
by Noel Coward shortly to be presented to
Australia by the Firm, was hailed as bril-
liant, original and revolutionary by all the
New York critics except George Jean
Nathan. That redoubtable rebel pains-
takingly went (through the thing and showed
that ail its devices had been used before,
not once but many times. I know of only
one case of a highbrow writer taking a low-
brow theatrical medium and breathing new
life into it. William Archer wrote “The
Green Goddess” (excellently played here by
G. B. Post) in a sportive attempt to show
what could be done with the stale props of
melodrama. To Archer’s astonishment it
made a small fortune for him—or would have
if he hadn’t died a bit too soon.
“L.H.P.”: The mail brings news of the
death of Alfred B. Tapping, actor and stage
manager, in London. He produced “Sweet
Nell of Old Drury” for Musgrove here in
1902, and created the rf>le of Bollins, the
old actor. He had previously visited Aus-
tralia as stage manager for Charles Cart-
wright’s London company in 1898. when he
produced “A Marriage of Convenience” and
other pieces that failed to fetch the Aus-
tralian public, and brought trouble to Harry
Bickards. who imported the show. Tapping
came a third time (1909). when he pro-
duced “Zaza” and other pieces for the Firm,
with Nellie Stewart as star.
APPRECIATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Speeches by King George and Signor Mussolini
formed part of the ‘talkie’ programmes. The ‘talkies’
are far from perfect, but they were accepted as a
novelty.” —Brisbane Mail,
He stands—apt keystone of the arch
Through which the pomps of empire march
To destined things;
He speaks—clear mouthpiece of the pride
Of peoples welded far and wide,
King, son of kings.
A nation, fleshed and vocal, here!
And on John Citizen so clear
The wonder dawns;
Imagination riots free;
He looks and hears. “A novelty,”
He says—and yawns !
He comes—a people’s son and sire,
Dictator-demagogue, afire
With that strange flame
That fluxes millions to its will,
Its lonely fating to fulfil
In fame or shame.
King-democrat and tyrant-pleb.
Lo, they are here!.... A ponderous neb
John strokes, unvext
By overpowering company.
“It is,” he says, “a novelty—
The comic’s next.”
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


The
1 —Li iIHWi
imfnt AUSTRALIA
mat,
«C
hi
m
to/v s;
i
Ulv~
St
fd
0
0^
»r>
V°
X V° v
&v e
v°
O^'oV
>\ %s^ e .:
Av®-
V>V#*
VP*# o' vt® -pi* 0 * o'
6 e^S-
<o”} T 'A' a „o" AO 6 ’
\> e e l°^
’*^V*
41V
r^e'
o' 5 -
\\V*
rf&
%!*
V*
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Hit the Deck ’
Criterion “The Patsy
Royal “The Wrecker’’
Palace “New Brooms’’
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Desert Song’
Royal (com. Saturday) “The Marionettes”
King’s “The Flying Squad ’
New Comedy
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
.... .-■■■—-
Though the odds against Sydney escaping
rain on Saturday were stated by the sport-
ing editor to be 10 to 1, and the religious
editor gloomily rejected the idea that prayers
for sunshine would be of any avail, the Stan
of The Bulletin, Mirror and “\\ild
Cat” Monthly, accompanied by best
girls and kids—especially kids —turned
up hundreds strong at the Avenue picnic
grounds at Fig Tree Bridge. The trip
up the Lane Cove River is a pretty
one, the sun shone brightly and everything
augured well for a happy day. For once in
a way the augurs were right. There being
an R in the month, there was an abundant
supply of oysters and the wherewithal to
wash them down, and later an adequate lun-
cheon, with more wherewithal. The usual
toasts were drunk, and “Advance Australia
Fair” was sung so heartily that people at
Manly looked startled. There were races
for old and young in between; a good orches-
tra and a nice dancing floor, and a distribu-
tion of toys to the youngsters —always a
very popular feature. At night there was a
lot more dancing and merry-making and a
little rain, but everyone voted it one of the
finest outings that lias been had since the
Bully put on its first hunting jacket. To
say anything about the programme —a minia-
ture issue of the Bulletin —would be to tell
tales out of school.
* * *
Edgar Wallace is alleged to write most
of his plays in five minutes, but in the case
of “The Flying Squad,” now raving its way
at Melbourne King’s, five minutes seems
excessive. “The Flying Squad” is a wild
and whirling muddle of dope purveyors who
rush around England picking up cocaine
RENE LINTON, a clever Sydney girl doing well with “The
Vagabond King” co., now heading for Maoriland.
dropped from Dutch aeroplanes; of violin-
playing receivers who fall through trapdoors
into 30ft. of Thames mud and return as
ghosts to assist in confusing the rest of an
addled story of girls who leave French con-
vents to act as drug-smugglers in order to
be revenged on police inspectors wrongly
accused of murdering their brothers ; and of
canting missionaries who use prison-aid
societies for recruiting the ranks of cracks-
men. If there is a main theme in “The
Flying Squad” this critic failed to find it.
Ilis mind was perpetually being run up
anabranches or left becalmed and without
hope of mercy in billabongs. As a display
of gross dramatic incompetence “The Flying
Squad” took the bun. The most terrifying
flung was not the spectacle of that
popular performer Mr. Leon Gordon walk-
ing on to a mat which concealed an open
trapdoor. It was the evidence provided that
Mr. Wallace has begun to take himself not
merely as a prolific writer of successful
penny-dreadfuls, but also as a moral re-
former and a little artist. The enormous
prestige of the gentleman is commonly
ascribed to his ability to entertain that sec-
tion of the populace which is fortunate in
possessing the least intelligence ; but it is hard
to imagine this class or any other denying
much amusement from the present exhibit.
Moralisings on the wickedness of the London
copper and the ’orrors of the drug traffic
may cast as heavy strains on the attention
as soliloquies beginning with “to be or not
to be”; and a silly plot, if it is clumsily
constructed, may be as hard to follow as
the complicated designs of Shaw or Shak-
speare.
A play which is beneath notice, except of
the hostile variety, does not usually give scope
for good acting. Edwin Lester, Henrietta
Cavendish and Frank Bradley are all excel-
lent actors. Miss Cavendish will be remem-
bered as the charming old charwoman of
“Outward Bound,” and Bradley for a host
of good comedy Characterisations. “The
Flying Squad” wasted their talents in a
criminal fashion. Leon Gordon made a bril-
liant study of the lawyer in “The Trial of
Mary Duggan,” but lie made less than no-
thing on Saturday night of the inspector.
Mary McGregor was equally at sea with
Ann Perryman. Her most important job
was to drive a motor-car ten feet across the
stage, and she achieved this feat without
stalling. . , r
If this is the play concerning which Mr.
Wallace sued a London critic for saying he
■wrote “muck”—well, the critic gets this
writer’s sympathy, though he was entirely
wrong in his choice of epithets. Muck is
something that has form and substance and
can be handled, preferably with • a shovel.
“The Flying Squad” has as much form as
a succession of gas explosions, and a cast
of geniuses couldn’t handle it with satisfac-
tion.
* * ¥
If Frank Neil had any misgivings as to
the Melbourne reception of his latest season,
a public that knows its Neil and its Palace
Theatre resolved
all doubt s on
Saturday. T h e
advent of Field
Fisher in his cus-
tomary role of a
comic butler was
the excuse for an
appreciative demon-
stration ; the dis-
P 1 a y of popular
affection for Lily
Molloy in her usual
part of a farcical
serving person
threatened the
foundations of the
building; and the
apparition of Paul
Longuet, evidently
cast for the role of
a lover, caused sighs
of satisfaction. In
“Hold Baby,” the
opening number, a
veiled woman
thrusts an infant
on Frank Neil as
he is returning in
a state of inebria-
tion to his flat on
the day before his
wedding. The next
issue will be the
tale of three young
men who get flung
into a Turkish
bath on “Ladies’
Night.” “The Un-
kissed Bride” will
be the third pro-
duction. In the
next few weeks
professors of phal-
lic symbolism could
do worse than take
a refresher course
at Melbourne
Palace.
Melbourne Tivoli is giving its patrons
doses of grand opera with their, daily vaude-
ville. Renee Maxwell, Lillian Gibson, Alfred
Cunningham and John Priora are the singers.
None of them calls for extravagant enthusi-
asm, but their voices are adequate and so
is their reception. Another innovation is
an alleged drama called “Dope,” described
as a Tom Burke episode by Eric Masters.
If it is a true picture of the original, there
is at least one person who will refrain from
joining any Back to Burke movement.
Lucille Lisle, Kiora King and Ashton Jarry
suepeed in making the dull thing duller. The
rest of the bill is good variety.
Jazz is commonly supposed to be dis-
tracting. Actually, its basis being the regular
beat of the tpm-tom, it is more soothing than
the gentlest adagios in Beethoven’s sonatas
and symphonies. At Melbourne Tivoli the
other afternoon, when the “Metropolitan
Grand Opera Stars,” comprising a robust
tenor, a cadaverous basso, a plump mezzo
and a well-nourished soprano, were singing
excerpts from “II Trovatore, it became
painfully evident before they had been under
way two minutes
that every woman
in the audience
had brought at
least 10 fractious
infants. Followed
the Canadian Cow-
boy Band of
Syncopated Syn-
copists. Immedi-
ately the nursery
subsided into
silence. You have
only to look at the
faces of dancers to
observe the same
phenomenon. The
wooden expression,
the half-closed eyes
and the automatic
movements all re-
veal the trance state.
One of these days
a jazz-dancer will
go right off his
crumpet and crack
it on the wall or
floor of a ballroom,
and jazz will be
proclaimed a dan-
gerous pastime.
* V-
On Friday, at
Melbourne Royal,
Miss Bannerman
will cease to marry
Ileyst and repent
at leisure on a
tropical island. On
Saturday she be-
comes the Mar-
quise Fernande de
Monclars, of “Mar-
ionettes,” a comedy
in which Frederick
Blackman, hitherto
exclusively the
Firm's chief mas-
seur of musical
plays, will try his
hand at production.
A lot of good Australian handiwork is
going into the new State Theatre in M - -
bourne. Besides the vast girders, the f o
curtain, which weighs 12$ tonsA -At 0 3
fittings, all of unique design ; switchboards,
said to be the largest of their kind yet li-
stened in this country; the domes with their
intricate bronze fretwork—all were made on
the spot. The steel roof was also fabricated
locally, though few patrons will even Jo
aware of its existence, the system of hghting
and decoration being devised to give the
impression that the audience is sitting under
a sky perpetually starlit and not subject
Melbourne’s fractious weather.
Sydney’s Tivoli carried on last week with
Syd Roy’s Eyricals, the English jazz band
tliat blows saxophones, strums banjos an 1
sings ditties about hot mammas and sugar-
daddies in three-part harmonies worthy of
a better cause. A successor of Inaudi, Harry
Kahne, demonstrated that there is a type ot
human brain to which mental anthmeti .
comes easy; Murray Parker capered on and
off and discoursed about goils and guy. s >
and Sammy Shields, who sounds more like
a Canadian Irishman than anything else
on earth, told stories in the Scottish patois
and sang jazz ballads to a ukulele accompani-
ment provided by himself.
* * *
That considerable band of connoisseurs
who have contracted the Mo complex
thronged sadly into Fullers’ on Saturday
night, for the consciousness that this was
the last week of the Merrymakers and that
their chief was to lead the exodus into the
wilderness of Melbourne at the end ot it,
weighed heavily upon them. The usual
mixed programme was well up to standard.
Rene Dixon, a song-and-dance soubrette ot
pleasing exterior, and Pat Sherry, a dancer
of parts, were conspicuous among the new-
comers to the programme, as was Keith
Connolly in humorous songs with a topical
flavor ‘ * * *
For a paltry thousand a week Erica
Morini, the Viennese violinist, young, beau-
tiful and already famous, will play to
Sydney for a brief season in the Town Hall.
Her first concert is down for Easter Satur-
day. Erica is 23, and has been out
already for 13 years;—Arthur Nikiseh, the
great conductor at Eeipsig, sponsored her
in the war-time of 1916.
¥ * *
Arrives in Sydney on March 6. yet another
Russian pianist—Jascha Spivakovsky, who
came through Australia seven years ago
when in his early twenties. He has put in a
lot of earnest study in Europe, and returns
much addicted to Bach and Brahms.
* * *
The E. J. Carroll management promises
to present to Sydney Alexander Brailowsky,
a Russian pianist, born in Kiev and musi-
cally educated in Russia, Vienna, Switzer-
land and Paris. Among his teachers he
BERTHA RICCARDO, a fair S’ African, who varies the
Americanism of "Pigs” at Melbourne Comedy.
reckons Leschetizky, Busoni, Plante and
Moszkoroski. Chopin and the composers
of his own country are Brailowsky s great
lOVeS ‘ * * *
If Australian audiences weren’t the last
word in forbearance there is one type of
entertainer who would “get the bird hard
and promptly. That is the young man
who adopts the feminine genuflection —bend-
ing the knees instead of bowing from the
waist in the masculine manner. He usually
has a well-defined waist and marcelled hair,
and his mincing gestures, a certain lascivious-
ness of sentiment and voluminous trousers
combine to convey a faint hut decidedly un-
pleasant aroma of sexual unusualness, lhe
nastiness came from the U.S.A., but. two
lads who affect it on the vaudeville, circuit
at present are Australians.
* * #
The Anderson co. at Adelaide Itoyal gives
a bright rendering of “The Unfair Sex, a
modern comedy of kisses, harmless, enough,
but on the wrong lips. Guy Hastings and
Dora Mostyn sail easily through the Bouci-
cault-and-Vanbrugli parts, and the, younger
pairs make love and quarrel convincingly.
The weather has been a Cow —a hot cow —
and this is all to the good for Humphrey
Bishop’s pleasant open-air Gardens show. A
remarkable film "is “Rose Marie’ at the
York —curiously altered from the stage ver-
sion. American film fare is being given at
the Regent, where “East Side” (New York)
is being; screened; at the Pav., where the
murderous U.S. brand of football forms the
theme, and at the Wondergraph, where
Louise Fazenda fools funnily with Clyde
Cook.
* # *
Except before opera seasons, the high seas
have never carried to the Firm s order so
many artists as are hastening hitherward
at the moment. Coming are over 21 English
people alone, all no doubt to find that they
have become world-famous on the voyage.
#
The Nellie Bramley company continues to
crowd Brisbane’s Royal. “Within the Law
took the stage on Saturday. Miss Bramley,
as Mary Turner, the innocent salesgirl sen-
tenced to three years for stealing, makes a
very appealing figure: and George Cross, as
the Inspector of Police, is a satisfactorily
detestable personality. Altogether the charac-
ters are well cast, and the. evergreen Yankee
melodrama, which really is very well con-
structed, w r ent down as palatably, as ever.


PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
The prestige which surrounds all pur-
chases from Peapes’ is the result of
the QUALITY, VALUE and SER-
VICE which are the traditions of this
House devoted exclusively to the needs
of men and boys.
Styles and designs which cannot be
obtained elsewhere, durability which
gives a new meaning to value, and
prices which are always definitely low
explain the wisdom of buying at
Peapes’.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
fd
The purest tobacco only,
Wrapped in snow-white
paper without any trimmings
has made t(C Uhe Qreys” the
best ‘Virginia Cigarette.
It's the Vobacco that matters
io for 9<l. CIGARETTES so for 1/6
MAJOR DRAPKIN <Sc CO. Branch of the United Kingdom Tobacco Co. Ltd. [NSGB
Monday io Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/6.
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 15/-, or
a la carte, minimum, 15/-
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Jack Woods’ Ambassadors Dance
Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
eflortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Murrungurry”: A Clarence River man
once embarked on a corroboree venture, lie
took a troupe of blacks to Sydney, intending,
if the show was appreciated, to tour the
big towns of the State. Unfortunately, he
didn’t try them out first in the river city. lie
had picked his actors for their physical
grace, and having had no rehearsals he
didn’t discover till the night of the first
performance that they represented different
tribes, and, not understanding their parts,
couldn’t corroboree worth a cent. The dis-
gusted manager had to provide board and
lodging for the useless mob until he got
passage back for them to their own camps.
One day during the interim he met a dusky
star doing the block a long distance from
where he and his brothers were housed.
“What are you doing here?” he demanded.
“You’ll be getting lost?” “No fear,” said
Binghi, pointing to the tram rails. “Me
track um this pfeller !”
AN EASY ONE.
SCHOOL THACHER (who had told the story of Joan of Arc the previous day) : “Now,
who can tell me the name of the best-loved girl in France?”
BOY (who was absent the day before ): “Mademoiselle from Armentieres.”
“Delta”: At Lindfield (Sydney) recently
a Black Orpington hen produced an egg that
tipped the scale at GJoz. and fitted com-
fortably in a teacup. It was exhibited in
a shop window and viewed by d >zens of
people, many of whom insisted on handling
it to assure themselves it was genuine,
Eventually the handling resulted in the shell
being broken, and it was found that there
was a normal and perfectly shelled egg
in the centre, weighing about 2ez., and form-
ing a sort of core of the giant.
* * * *
“Thomas Pepper”: “Tuppence” (B.
23/l/’29) asks what has become of Crooked
Mick. This veteran, oft acclaimed by the
Abo. council in song and story, has crossed
the Great Divide. His
body lies in the Nacka-
kaboobriang cemetery,
which is reached by
travelling to Oodna-
dootna (S.A.) and
taking the first turn
to the left after pass-
ing Paddy O’Daggety's
pub, the Tripe and
Turtle. Mick has
good company; in
near-by graves lie the
remains of Alf Par-
sons, who dug 5000
postholes in one day;
Exul, the owner of the
cockatoo which mated
with a flying fish ;
Don Mac, whose cob-
ber, after sustaining
an abdominal wound,
sewed it up with a
bootlace and then
walked 10 miles to a
doctor, and many an-
other Abo. scribe who
never wrote fiction
when the truth was
stranger. The ceme-
tery trustees ha v c
asked me to announce
that they are reserv-
ing sites for a few
others—“ Wang” and
“Eureka” arc near the
head of the list.
* #
“Wrasli”: In re-
commending different
colors for bee-hive
frontages, what does
“Orn” (B. 30/1/’2O)
mean by “a homing
queen” ? Except in
her nuptial flight the
queen bee leaves the
hive only to swarm.
Then she forsakes it for good. Worker bees
need no difference of color to find their
respective hives. In all large apiaries the
hives are painted white and placed in rows
closely side by side, and there is no confusion
among the toilers bringing in their goods.
# * * *
“Yam”: A big duststorm was looming
behind, and Wandering Dinny was hurry-
ing to get to a camping-place among the
creek timber a couple of miles ahead. He
was carrying a heavy swag, and squatted
on it was a yellowish dog about the size
of a bull-tender which had become tender-
footed with much travel on hot, stony roads,
The dog liked being carried, but his rest-
lessness indicated that he thought an
umbrella to protect him from the heat would
be an improvement. “People think I’m a
damn circus,” Dinny grumbled. “But a man
must look after his mate. Lay down, blast
yor he interrupted himself, as the cripple
stood up and wobbled. “As soon as I get a
bit of basil I’ll make yer a set of boots, an’
ver’ll be able to jog along again. Lay down,
can’t yer? If yer reckon it’s hot up there
doin’ nothin’, how do yer think I am?” And
with a scowl Dinny went on.
HE KNEW A BETTER WAY.
BOSS: “Did you put your foot down when Mary wanted to have all her own way?”
JACKY: “No fear, Boss, this pfeller lifted plurry foot up."
“Sucker”: Smoogers, is it? Let “Two
Seas” and “Ess” learn a wrinkle or two
from my specimen. He was an old fellow
in West Queensland who did boundary-
riding and other jobs on stations. He had
some house property in Longreach. After
taking a job he would develop a striking fancy
for the manager’s children. When the time
w,as ripe lie would ask the manager to glance
over his will to see it was in order. By
the time the boss was finished reading he’d
be breathing hard. As a token of his regard
and affection the old rooster had willed the
house property to the manager’s children!
That used to put him sweet with Mrs. Man-
ager, who saw that he had eggs and all the
store offered. The boss couldn’t be hard on
the old fellow after that, and everything
used to be as sweet as a nut. Of course, the
old boy never died —fellows of this sort
never do—and in any case the new will
never went any further than the fireplace
at the hut.
* * * *
“Eureka” : Jacky visited the Pericho picnic
races and risked 10s. on the tote. on an
also-ran in the first race. Reading the
results in the tote window over to himself:
“Eirst. £2 55.; Second. £3 1.75. 6d.; Third,
155.; Invested. £175 105.,” he had a bright
idea. Before the start of the next race lie
approached the window and said: “Gibbit
two plurry ticket on Invested.
* * * *
“Ananias, .Tun.” : Even artists at their job
make mistakes. The other day at Moree
(N.S.W.) a crowd of bathers in the Gwydir
River saw a black cormorant, king of fisher-
men, come out of the water with a fair-sized
cod, which it swallowed. The bird then took
flight, but after travelling a couple of hun-
dred yards fell dead. Examination showed
that the bird had swallowed the fish tail
first, and that the spines of the dorsal fin
had killed it. In the ordinary way of busi-
ness, the cormorant swallows fish head first,
for the express purpose of avoiding the
spines, usually tossing it into the air to
make sure things are right. Evidently the
proximity of humans caused this bird to omit
his usual precaution, with the result that
another brand of biped got the benefit of his
catch.
* , * * *
“Felinity” : Ws had a cat that was very
strange in her ways. When the nippers
brought in a bunch of seaweed from the
beach. Whiskers, then approaching cathood,
investigated it thoroughly, then, to our
amazement, she lay down upon it and com-
posed herself to blissful sleep. Thereafter
seaweed was frequently brought up so tha,.
the strange lady might indulge her tancy.
One morning one of my youngsters came
rushing in screaming that Y\ lnskers was
eating her bed. She was. She continued
to do so. Every day for months she liad
a modicum of bed for breakfast Approach-
ing motherhood didn’t raise her mind to
nobler diet. About this time she was re-
christened Mermaid by my offspring, and I
didn’t like to haggle over it. After three
little mermen arrived the seaweed-eating con-
tinued. Presently Mermaid’s family followed
in their mother’s queer footpads. Every
day goggle-eyed offspring examined the kit-
tens to note if scales or fins were hidden
under the fur. One morning we got up to
find Mermaid and sons vanished. I con-
soled the kids with the theory that the call
of the sea had at last prevailed. But what
did happen?
# * * *
“Questo”: There are some queer old hat-
ters in the Cape York Peninsula. On the
Starcke, one-time northern goldfield, lives
Kobinson Crusoe. He is clad from head
to foot in goat-skins with the hair turned
outwards. There are air-holes punched in
several places to make the hot suit a little
cooler. His headgear resembles a Victorian
bonnet in shape, but his jacket, trousers
and boots are indescribable. From the back
he has the appearance of a big gorilla, but
from the front, with his long flowing patri-
archal beard, on e sees old Crusoe reincar-
nated. He lives, or rather exists, on goat
meat (generally known up here as mutton).
Besides this, the neighboring stations
occasionally give him small quantities of
beef, flour or trade tobacco. He fossicks
around the old claims looking for gold and
does not welcome visitors.
Jfc * * *
“Tuppence”: One of the peculiarities of
the dry country to the west of the Lower
Thompson River (Q.) is the number of little
springs. The drier the time the. more
freely they flow. During the ’O2 drought,
which was the last word in droughts, water
from the Bore Spring, in the mountains on
Warbreccan, ran three miles. Then the
good seasons came, and after the big wet
of ’O6 the Bore Spring shut up shop and
refused to trickle. Possum Spring was
another with the same peculiarity, and there
are many others. They won’t tolerate inter-
ference. If let alone they’ll do their best.
If they’re opened up they go out of business
for good. Twelve- and Seventeen-Mile
Springs on Warbreccan used to trickle a
bit once. The manager reckoned he’d im-
prove them by increasing their openings and
sinking a bit of a well. The wells are still
there, but the springs have gone.
(Continued on next page.)
THE HOAD FROM ANYWHERE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It isn’t far to Anywhere, the golden happy
clime
We featured in the gladsome days of once
upon a time. •
Good company was always ours; few plea-
sures did we lack;
It wasn’t far to Anywhere—until we started
back.
The roads that lead to Anywhere no tell-tale
milestones know;
You merely guess how far you’ve come, how
far you’ve got to go.
Tis smooth and easy travelling; down plea-
sant paths you stray.
But. ah, the road from Anywhere is uphill
all the way.
It isn’t far to Anywhere; it’s just around
the bend;
But comes a time you find that there is not
your journey’s end.
And of all the roads you’ll ever take there’s
none so hard to tread
As that which leads from Anywhere, where
all your dreams lie dead.
w.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


MupOUet/A
OINYCR
Know security of body and
peace of mind by wearing
Denyer’s Elastic Truss—
the truss with the patent
water pad. You’ve never
known such comfort, free-
dom and effective support
as is provided by this de-
pendable appliance. Write
for Free Pamphlet.
Single 30/- Double 40/-
DENYER BROS.,
DEPT. 1, 267 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Follow the
'Chart
TEXACO keeps your engine clean.
BUY FROM THE TEXACO VISIBLE OIL
SERVER BOTTLE, AND ENSURE:
Freedom from carbon
Clean Valves and Spark Plugs
Protection against heat and wear
Economy in consumption
High compression and more
power
TEXACO
CLEAN-CLEAR-GOLDEN
MOTOR OIL
I2Ma©leay St.
Limited
The Company will transfer its
business to the new Private Hotel
in Greenknowe Avenue, Potts
Point, in March, 1929, where it
will feature Central Heating,
Private Baths and Telephones to
each room.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views.
Inclusive Tariff from £5/5/-
per week, or £ 1 / 1 /- per day.
Bed and Breakfast from
£4/4/- per week, or 16/-
per day.
For appointment to view ’phone
F 2161 (4 lines). Telegraphic
Address: Fifmac, Sydney.
“Steve”: A cute dodge was that of a
butcher in a Vic. country town whose shop
was infested with rats. Catching one alive
in a trap, he invited the boys of the village
to bring along every mongrel they could get
hold of, promising them threepence a head
for every rat killed. All being ready he
dipped the captive rat in tar and let it
go. A few seconds later rats came swarm-
ing from every hole and gutter in the place.
Then there was a pandemonium in which
rats, boys and dogs did their damnedest. Rats
that escaped the dogs ran into near-by shops
for sanctuary, and women fled shrieking in
all directions. But the butcher got rid of
his rats.
* * * *
“Mac”: What are believed to bo the
fossilised remains of some huge prehistoric
animal have been discovered in the bed of
the Woorabool River at Batcsford (Vic.),
recently dried up for the first time in the
memory of white residents. The river course
is a channel worn in the solid limestone,
and in one of the deepest parts erosion has
laid bare a section of fossilised bone more
than eight feet long, with no sign of a
joint throughout its entire length. Where
one jagged end projects from the face of
the limestone the diameter is upwards of
a foot.
* * * *
“Redraw”: The insatiable greed of the
shark is proverbial. There’s a reason for it.
The tiger of the seas is provided with an
extraordinary apparatus enabling it to open
its stomach at will and discharge the undi-
gested contents.
* * $ c
“Up Top”: The pack teams of the Far
North are dwind-
ling ; not because
of motor competi-
tion, either. A few
years back there
were eight teams of
30 horses each con-
stantly moving to
the tinfields behind
Cooktown (Q.).
Along the Penin-
sula were other
teams, trudging to
connect the supply
luggers with the
little goldfields.
The big Peninsula
mining camp and
cattle station and
two score of san-
dalwood cam p s
were solely depen-
dent on packhorse
for the bringing of
supplies and trans-
port of their pro-
duce to the coast.
Over level forest
country; up
3000 ft. jungle
ranges; along dry
tracks or mountain
country intersected
b y rushing tor-
rents; through
bush-fires or floods;
dry season or wet,
the old packhorse
got there just the
same. With the
steady decline of
tin and gold yields
and the cutting out
of sandalwood the
picturesque teams
are vanishing. The
(Chinese packers,
who once had fine
teams on the road,
have almost en-
tirely disappeared,
while the spider-
web of teams that
once moved along
the Palmer, Nor-
manby, Ebagoolah
and the Coen are
now but a memory.
“Maunga”: “Verri’s” statement (B.
9/l/’29) that Zane Grey ha s given a con-
tract for line-making to Poitutu, an ancient
Taranaki Maori, and that the line is guar-
anteed to haul in the biggest mako-shark
or the liveliest swordfish in the Sea of Iviwa,
is all tosh. Old Poitutu may be hand-
plaiting a line for Grey, but it won’t re-
place the factory-made ones the novelist keeps
in stock. If old Poitutu tried his line on
a decent-sized mako or swordfish he’d do
AN UNSTABLE CONVERT.
“Caught a big fish up chapel last night, boay. Boozer Billy Billcock, an’ no less.”
“What, again! Well, ef ’ee do want maake sure av un, better knock ’n in the ’ead
straight away. ’E beant got no stickability.
as much good with it as he would with a
yard of dough. And Grey wouldn’t catch
much minus his paraphernalia—powerful
motor-launch manoeuvred by experts, swivel
chair, rod-resting socket, colored teasers,
carefully arranged trace with cunningly ad-
justed hooks and live bait attached, outsize
reel and all the rest of it.
* ❖ * *
“Maunga”: “Ivaiapohia’s” theory (B.
16/l/’29) that Maoriland whitebait changes
into inanga doesn’t explain what becomes
of the inanga after Ps alleged return to the
sea. It is now accepted by naturalists that
whitebait are the young of the herring;
and seeing that the herring seeks the coast
to spawn, and that 68,000 eggs have been
counted in the roe of one female, the pro-
digality of whitebait runs is understand-
able.
*. * * *
“Mundowie”: A queer character was
Pumpkin Paddy, who travelled a wide cir-
cuit in south-eastern parts of Queensland,
carrying a big swag. Short jobs suited
him better than long ones; he seemed hap-
pier tramping the round of his old camps,
and as long as he had a full swag the lack
of a job didn't worry him. Many of his
camps were regular homes. In secluded
nooks alongside scrubs and on creek and
river banks he planted patches of pumpkins,
or a few potatoes. In wallaby country his
pumpkins were grown where the vines would
run over shrubs and fallen timber, out of
reach, but occasionally he made a rough
enclosure to protect them. Ilis gardens
extended over hundreds of miles, but he was
well repaid for his trouble, for he was seldom
without a pumpkin or two in his load.
He * * *
“Yarri”: Some Queensland sheep- and
cattle-runs suffered heavy losses prior to
the recent substantial rains, but none of
them approached the record percentage that
occurred some years back on Meteor Downs,
in the Springsure district. The run was
purchased for £lOO,OOO from the executors
of Jimmy Tyson, and it was then carrying
95,000 sheep. When it was mustered after
the first rains only 1000 were found alive.
Mount Cornish run (famed as the station
from which Starlight, in “Robbery Under
Arms,” took a mob of fats to Adelaide)
carried 40,000 cattle. At the beginning of
1903 the drought had reduced the herd to
350.
“Natist”: Someone asked a while back
where the laughing-jack goes to die. Like
most of the feathered tribe he isn’t particular
where he goes so long as it’s away from
others of his kind. When a bird sickens it
takes itself away from all company and,
perched low or on the ground, it sits, the pic-
ture of dejection, till the complaint has run
its course or it goes out to it. A very sick
bird can be approached quite closely before
it will try to move away, and generally it
will alight on the ground again when it
settles. Indisposed birds of prey arc nearly
always harassed by birds naturally hostile
to them, the attackers seeming to gloat over
their chance of evening up accounts.
* * * *
“Gentleman James” : My experience of the
kookaburra is not that of “M.M.E.” (B.
16/l/’29). In this berry-growing district
(Mount Evelyn, Vic.), close to the great
Silvan dam, the quaint bird is intimate and
confiding. Once I actually ploughed one in.
Using a single-furrow, I became suddenly
aware of the bird’s dive for a worm imme-
diately in front of the mould-board, and the
next instant, worm in beak, he was buried
to the neck—and most annoyed about it.
* * * *
“Globe”: “C. 8.” (B. 23/l/’29) wants an
explanation of why the trees in C'ollins-
street, Melbourne, thrive though asphalt
reaches their trunks, yet wilt with a partial
drought. In wet weather the trees' get
enough moisture through the leaves. If
there’s no rain the trees must go thirsty.
Ultra-violet rays from electric lights can’t
be affecting the growth of the trees. The
light comes through ordinary glass, which
cuts out the invisible ultra-violet rays.
* * * *
“Tafua”: Fear- of sharks is not in the
make-up of the average Tongan. Watch them
out in their canoes when one is sighted.
“Tafua! Tafua!” they yell, meaning “big
fish.” And away they go after it Their
method of dispatching it is to dive below the
shark, keeping to the side of it, as a shark
can’t turn quickly. Then, grasping the left
fin near the body, they plunge the knife in
and rip it open. That is the easiest part.
The native must stay down till the shark is
dead, which is anything from four minutes
up. He must not let go if he values his
life. It is no mean task with the water dark
with blood and the shark lashing around in
its death agonies.
IYNDALYN MOONLIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In a long ago that no one else remembers,
Through a gateway never turned by alien
keys,
From the wattle bends of fleeting blue Sep-
tembers,
Framed in flower-gold, set in frondage to
the knees,
When the moon swings up behind the city
towers,
And the arc lights drown her lustre faint
and thin,
I remember how her airy glory showers
Over arching bough and bole at Kyndalyn.
The ranges running south and rising nor’-
ward,
With the river like a silver trail of snow ;
The darkly-timbered ramparts looming for-
ward,
And the plains a field of purple spread
below;
The homestead rising high above the narrow
Sweep of foreland, where the grass-tree
flats begin—
So memory takes the pathway of the arrow
Up the quiet road that leads to Kyndalyn.
Where now are those who planted oak and
elm?
Set the rose where crowding saplings sway
alone?
There is one who wrote his name across a
realm;
And one whose name is set upon a stone;
Some gone east and some gone west, but all
are scattered,
Sundered long, no more to house with kith
and kin.
While the old bush takes her way, as naught
else mattered,
Through the tangled garden wastes of
Kyndalyn.
Through the memory haze of half a lifetime
after
. I can see the lamplight beckon through
the trees,
Where now is only ruined roof and rafter,
And the creeping fern in fronded com-
panies.
SAFETY FIRST.
“Dashed dangeroush things taxish. Knew a fEller wash killed
wunsh in taxi smash.”
“Thash orlri’. We’ll drink the beer before we shtart.”
When the Cross swings low on haunted nights
of summer,
How the sentry poplar, leaning to its twin,
Keeps patient watch as though for one late-
comer
Through the broken gateway guarding
Ivyndalyn!
When the crickets croon together in the
grasses,
And the lingering jade has left the jewelled
skies,
And the slow moon up her soundless path-
way passes
Take a lamp of glory swung from Paradise,
Till earth has caught the glamor more than
mortal
That we sometimes glimpse behind its
barrier thin,
Do they ever dream so far beyond its portal
Of other nights agone, at Ivyndalyn?
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


Pro
Wm
WMv
IV l
F* 7r.
v K.
\±
ÜbVV
/
Improved In Every Feature
In Dodge Brothers Improved Victory Six every feature that
contributes to comfort, luxury, style and performance has been
refined and improved.
This is especially noticeable in the generous additions to head-
room and seat width; in wider doors and windows giving greater
breadth of vision to all occupants.
Due to the unique principle on which the Victory is built, body
overhang is eliminated and the center of gravity is lowered.
The result is a degree of roadability and riding ease that is
nothing short of marvelous.
Dodge Brothers complete line of passenger vehicles includes
the Standard Six, the Victory Six and the Senior Six.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co., (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane —Townsville
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth
Harden & Johnston, Ltd., Sydney
Northern Automobiles, Ltd,., Auckland, N.Z
Amuri Motors, Ltd. .. Christchurch, N.Z
Cossens and Black, Ltd. .* Dunedin, N.Z,
p. H. Vickery, Ltd. .. Invercargill, N.Z.
Newton King, Ltd. .. New Plymouth, KJZ.
Magnus Motors, Ltd, • • Wellington, 27. Z,
DdDGE Br.DTHER-5
VI CTORY 5i x
DODG
20/2/’29.


The
Clip
'ftlblillitiiti
may be small or large in size, attractive or otherwise
*n quality and condition. That’s not the point. Every
grade of wool and every bale or even bag of it has
its correct market value. And if this action is taken
that full value will be secured.
Send the Wool to
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
Selling Brokers, LTD.
SYDNEY or BRISBANE,
Who secure growers highest possible figures for every
bale or Dag iLcy cell.
1
a
cl
1
_ At Scott’s
- v every want has been
anticipated and fully met,
in the sumptuous furnishing and
oomplete comfort of the appointments
throughout, including Ladies' Drawing Room,
Music and Writing Rooms, and Gentlemen’s
Smoking, Writing Rooms and Lounge.
Electricians and fires and direct and inter-
communicating telephones in all bedrooms.
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD.
Inclusive 7at iff by Day or Bed and Breakfast Rate
□
Q
Telegrams:
“Scottsotel,
Melbourne”
mimimmYrc
- .
&ts?
Ke
’Phone:
Central 9011 (10 lines)
5.34
STAG'S
The Sign of
QUALITY
The Wunderlich Trademark is
a sign of quality —it is your
guarantee of sterling value in
the following materials:—
Art Metal Ceilings, Terra Cotta
Roofing Tiles, Asbestos Cement
(Durabestos) Building Sheets.
Look for the trademark on these
products, when you purchase.
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern. Sydney
Branches in all States
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
MILLET FOIi FODDER.
“G.D.M.”: The farmer who desires a quick-
maturing crop that will be useful as forage,
liay or silage should consider the claims of
millet. When a spring-sown crop of millet
fails as a result of dry weather it may be
taken off early enough to admit of the ground
being prepared for autumn-sown crops. The
most useful millets are Japanese, Hungarian
(white and yellow), White French and
Pearl, and of these the first-named is by far
the most commonly grown, as it is, per-
haps, the quickest grower of all cultivated
crops, under favorable conditions.
Millet is very susceptible to low tempera-
tures, so the crop will find more favor with
farmers in the warmer areas, where a sow-
ing may be made at intervals of two or
three weeks and so long as there is warmth
and moisture in the soil.
The crop is hardy and does well in a
variety of soils. Where another crop has
failed, millet may be broadcasted and disced
or spring-toothed in. From 81b. to 121 b.
of s ed to the acre is used. When the land
is fertile and in good condition, less is
required; but care should be taken, us if
sown too lightly the resultant crop
will be too coarse for converting into
liay. If the seed is drilled, less will be re-
quired than if it is broadcasted. For a
gi'ain crop, or for the purpose of silage, the
drilling process is recommended.
As to harvesting, for green food the best
time to cut is when the majority of seed
heads have formed in the green pendent
stage. If the crop is intended for silage it
may stand a little longer, but must be cut
before ripening.
Millets have no poisonous properties, such
as those of sorghums, and may be fed when
quite young, but it is best to wait until
a growth of about Gin. is reached.
LIME.
“Hatter”: “Agronom” (B. 16/l/’29) ex-
presses an opinion very prevalent among
our farmers that Australian soils do not
need lime. “It remained,” says “Agronom,”
“for the practical field men to recommend
the use of super, and other fertilisers be-
cause they gave better results than lime.”
This sentence shows a misunderstanding of
the action of lime. It is a fact that lime,
used with fertilisers on soils that need
enrichment, exhausts the land because it
quickens the processes of plant vitality
without supplying the essential food. On
the other hand, the beneficial effect of any
fertiliser is largely neutralised by an acid
soil, that is to say, by the absence of an
adequate supply of lime.
The average percentage of lime in the
coastal districts of Australia has been esti-
mated at 28201 b to the acre, and of inland
soils at 70401 b. As opposed to this, the
richest soils in the world contain 41 ton;
to the acre. Some American professors
recommend 16 to 32 tons per acre, and
experiments have been conducted at Rotham-
sted with land carrying 100 tons per acre.
The quantity required varies with the
climate and the rainfall; the greater the
rainfall the greater the loss caused by
leaching in addition to the loss caused
by the requirements of the crop. But
it is evident that there is a very wide
gulf between the natural lime contents of
our soil and the amount found advisable
in other parts of the world. Some years
ago Maoriland was using super, alone on
pastures, but experience showed that in the
Course of time the finer grasses petered out
and their place was taken by weeds. The
Maorilanders amended their practice and
now use both super, and basic slag, with
the result that second-class land carries
herbage of the finest quality. It is a very
simple matter by the use of a forcing
manure to obtain good crops for a few or
even for many years, according to the rich-
ness of the soil, but the holding of land
carries with it an obligation to use it to
the best advantage and restore and main-
tain its fertility.
“.Agronom” maintains that “most culti-
vated soils are acid and should be so.” This
is really the crux of the matter, and the
contrary, view is adopted by the leaders in
agricultural research. The soil must not
be regarded as an inert mass. It is densely
populated by millions of minute organisms ;
some change the useless residues of plants
into humus: others fix nitrogen from the
atmosphere and build it into proteins; others
feed the elovers and legumes, and others,
again, protect the food from being washed
out by rain. These organisms, so beneficial
to plant-life, do not work or thrive well in
an acid soil. The value of these minute
organisms is shown by the recent discovery
that farmyard manure owes its good results
to their action, and synthetic farmyard
manure is in process of manufacture from
waste straw by encouraging in the straw the
growth of these organisms. Since an acid
reaction is unfavorable to the activities of
these micro-organisms it follows that plants
grown in it will be neither as healthy nor
as hungry as in a neutral soil.
“Agronom” contends that the soil should
be manured for the crop. Agreed. Yet he
objects to lime for citrus trees. Plants
absorb 0(i p.c. of their nourishment from
the atmosphere. The mineral contents (4
p.c.) are drawn from the soil and should
be supplied by the farmer. The mineral
Contents can be determined by burning the
plant and examining the ash. The ash of
the orange fruit gives 23 p.c. and that of
the lemon 30 p.c. of lime compared with 4
p.c. in the apple and 3 p.c. in the peach.
Thus quite a considerable quantity of lime
must be taken away witli two crops a year,
and this must be restored even to keep the
contents at their normal level. When our
lemon-trees yield 3000 fruit per year per
tree, as they do in Southern Europe, and
our rich river flats yield their 200 bushels
of maize per acre, which is a reasonable
Thousands of men fail on the land because they don’t know how to
succeed; many thousands more succeed less than they should because
they lack proper guidance.
“The Bulletin” wants to encourage farmers and scientists who know
to help those who don’t know.
With that object it offers two prizes of £20 and £10 for the most
useful contributions to the “Land” pages during the six months
ending June 30 next.
All contributions submitted, whether published or not, will be con-
sidered in awarding points, and the prizes will go to the winners
of most points.
Points will be awarded for interest and practical usefulness.
The prizes are additional to the usual payment for published
contributions.
expectation, there will be less need to
examine the results of scientific research in
other countries. It is not yet sufficiently
realised that in the last 50 years agri-
culture has advanced from a simple avoca-
tion to a highly specilised study demanding
probably more expert knowledge and .more
varied attainments than any of the older
“professions.”
WOOD-ASH AS FERTILISER.
“Nella” : “Nisluop” (B. 23/l/’29) says the
phosphoric acid in vegetation is driven off
by burning. Guthrie, in his “Chemistry of
the Soil,” says that the burning of vege-
tation provides “....phosphoric acid in an
exceedingly soluble condition, and in such a
state as to be readily assimilated by most
plants.” Potash is usually in disproportion
to the amount of phosphoric acid, but not
always, as two examples of analyses from
Guthrie will show :
Phosphoric acid. Potash.
Red-gum .. .. 0.38 per cent. 4.17 per cent.
She-oak . . . . 8.85 ~ „ 2,19 „ „
An analysis of ash from a paddock of
mixed grasses was supplied to me by the
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture as con-
taining 3.07 per cent, phosphoric acid and
5.3 per cent, potash.
It is a long way from Queensland to the
Southern Tablelands of N. S. Wales, where
I live. In the northern State grass-fires
may be reckoned a calamity, but in my
district they are a necessity. We have two
crops of grass, and if pastures are to be
kept in their best form the autumn and
winter grasses, which die and become value-
less in August, must be burnt off in Septem-
ber to allow the spring and summer grasses
to thrive. Grass burning is carried out in
the early spring every year by some, and
every two or three years by others. Burn-
ing obviously does not destroy the seed that
has fallen to the ground.
In cases where burning has not been prac-
tised on grazing lands I would earnestly
suggest that an area should be burnt off as
a trial, and I have no doubt that the
growth of grass will be greatly improved. A
cereal crop that has become woody or is
diseased can be burnt off to advantage.
ATTENDING TO EWES.
“Squaremile”: How much attention should
be given to ewes when lambing? If they
are merino ewes, lambing to merino rams,
the less you interfere with them the better.
Be sure that conditions are as favorable as
possible and leave them alone. You might
do more harm by disturbing them than by
neglecting them. This is especially true if
the ewes are not used to seeing people about.
They are more nervous with a young lamb
at foot than at any other time, and are likely
if disturbed to run away from the lamb and
forget all about it. It is well to get your
ewes in the habit of seeing you about the
paddocks at all .times; then you have less
trouble during lambing.
GRINDING COMBS AND CUTTERS.
“Expert’ : A few tips to add to “Rob
P.’s” (B. 23/l/'29). First make sure your
grinder pendulum is hanging true. Tested
without a comb attached the points of the
comb pins should hang just clear of the disc
and midway between centre and outside edge.
A frequent cause of bad cutting is uneven
grinding. The outside of the disc travels
faster than the centre, and to compensate
for that it is necessary to apply slightly
emphasised pressure to the side of the tool
nearest the spindle.
I can’t agree with “Rob P.’s” choice of
emery cloth. The grades which give the best
results and which are used in most N.S.W.
and Vic. sheds to-day are No. 1 for cutters
and No. 3 for combs. Carborundum cloth
is superior to emery cloth.
The discs will become slightly clogged
after the first dozen or so of tools are ground.
To liven them up drag the points of an old
comb several times smartly across the face
of the disc from the centre outwards; but dp
it on the opposite half of the disc to that
over which the pendulum swings, so that the
sparks fly downwards.
MARKING LAMBS.
“ Jum Buck” : Have a yard in the centre of
the paddock so that the mob does not have to
be taken away from its familiar surroundings.
Much delay is avoided at both ends of the day
if a handy yard is available and “mothering
up” is simplified. Muster the mob early in
the day and leave them alone for a few
hours to give the lambs a chance to mother
up in the yard. When the tailing is over
mother and lamb will look for one another
where they met last.
A cool day, when the wind is blowing
strong and cold, is the best sort to choose
for marking, as it keeps the fly away. Tail-
ing as late as possible in the evening has the
double result of giving the fly less time to
do its deadly work and giving the lamb all
night to gather strength to resist the fly next
day.
Tailing is best performed by holding the
tail at the end with the left hand; just before
cutting, turn the tail well in between the
lamb’s legs. A loose skin is formed and
sheathes the wound, which heals much more
rapidly in consequence.
Instead of making the tailing a rush job
at the end of the lambing period, divide the
operation into about three sections. When
the first of the lambs are about a fortnight
old get them quietly together into the yard.
Drop any full-bellied ewes or very young
lambs this time, and get the little riiob into
the yard so that the lambs can be treated
while young. In a fortnight or so repeat
the operation and a fortnight or three weeks
later clean up the remainder. If your mob
is used to seeing you about the" paddock
this won’t disturb them much, and the ulti-
mate benefit of treating the lambs when
young will make up for any losses arising
from the disturbance. If any dogs are used,
choose quiet, gentle ones.
NOOGOORAS AS FODDER.
Rington”: An Inverell (N.S.W.) grazier
tried an interesting experiment witli noo-
gyora burrs. They were growing all along
his creek frontage. One paddock fronting
the creek was stocked with lambing ewes,
and therefore not 'heavily. The adjoining
paddock was stocked fairlv heavily with
wethers. The season continued dry and
soon the wethers had all the noogooras
eaten, but the ewes did not touch them. The
inference was that sheep will eat the burrs
when they are hungry enough, but not other-
wise. Asa rule the best experiment to try
with noogooras is to cut them out of the
paddock, quick and lively. They require much
niore moisture than do Bathursts, but they
are a very much greater pest.
DRIVING WEANERS.
N.M.L.”: Handling weaners, either cattle
or sheep, is a different business to handling
older stock. In driving older stock the aim
!.? to check the pace of the lead, so as to give
the tail a chance. With weaners it’s a ease
of keeping the tail up with the leaders. It’s
almost impossible to steady the lead, as the
youngsters haven't learned to turn.
Having the weaners on the run—and that’s
the only way they’ll start—it’s essential to
keep them together. Bump ’em in, hunt ’em in ;
drive 'em together any old way at all; but
keep them in a compact mob. Once weaners
have spread you may as well kiss them
good-bye. After a few miles, when the
little things begin to get tired, it’s a dickens
ot a job to keep the mob compact, but it
must be done.
Be careful at gates. Weaners come
through gates in fizzes and squirts, jumping
and racing over the top of each other. If one
tails it’s a case of “sacks' on the mill” and
smothered stock underneath, if the run isn't
checked till the fallen ones regqin their feet.
In the first quarter of a mile, when they're
running hard, if there are any sharp gullies
or other broken ground it’s another case of
one down, the rest come on. I’ve seen a
hundred or more lambs pile up in a gully
almost before one could wink.
Make sure the little brutes are thirsty
before you attempt to drive them, even if
this involves a long stay in the yard. It is
better to wait a day and be sure of a thirst
than to take weaners out fresh from their
mothers. If they’re thirsty, they’re going
to have a good drink when they reach the
water, and they’ll remember that water. If
they’re only half thirsty, they'll only look at
the water and then go searching for their
mothers.
If possible, it’s advisable to put weaners
back in the same paddock as that in which
they were running with their mothers before
weaning. They know the country, the pads
and the water.
BATHURST BURR AND TURKEYS.
“Uncle Noah”: A Goulburn Valley (Vic.)
grazier is still whipping the cat because lie
ignored the presence of a couple of fairly
extensive patches of Bathurst burr on his
property. His clip amounted to just on a
ton, iind the selling agent’s advice was to
the effect that 2d. per lb. had been docked
on account of the burr. It meant a loss of
about £lB, which would have paid for the
eradication of the pest many times over.
He got rid of the burr after that. A
hundred turkeys owned by a neighbor were
allowed the run of the infested paddocks,
and now, after two or three years, the burr
is eaten right out. The birds fed almost
entirely on the seeds and were fattened for
market at very little expense. Nevertheless,
the cultivation of burr for chicken-food is
not recommended:
ONIONS.
“R.X.8.”: Australia imports thousands of
pounds worth of onions every year, but they
make a very. profitable crop on the right
sort of soil, since the price ranges up to £3O
per ton.
Onions are very hardy once they are estab-
lished and they will stand any amount of
heat provided it is accompanied by an
amount of moisture. The soil should be
loose and on the sandy side for preference.
Volcanic soils are excellent for producing
large bulbs with thin skins. An easy slope
with an easteidy aspect is best, but flat land
is quite suitable if it is properly drained.
Land for onion growing must be worked to
a fine tilth for a depth of about a foot.
No fertiliser is needed. Fresh seed is im-
portant. so send to a reliable firm and accept
their varieties, specifying your locality and
conditions and stating whether the seed is for
the first crop, which for most districts is
from April to June; the second crop, from
May to July, or the main crop, from June
onwards.
Sow 31b. of seed to the acre with a small
drill of the kitchen garden type, to a depth of
lin. in drills 9in. apart. Onion seed has a
tendency to work to the surface, and it is
advisable to move a special sort of hand-
drawn harrow over the land in the direction
of the drills occasionally until the seed


ďf
A Special Country
Boot
Built in the style found most
durable and comfortable for
rough or wet-weather wear, the
Abbey Cossack increases ser-
viceability by doubling of both
sole and upper. The lining of
the upper is soft leather—the
tongue is fastened by flaps,
which further pad the boot and
exclude grass-seeds and dust.
The Abbey Cossack flexes
easily as you walk. It fits
naturally—being shaped with a
distinctive arch over the instep
to prevent strain.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather used in all
styles the higher-priced tan
boot has an upper of special
calf. Order the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin).
TAN WILLOW, 46/6 & 41/6
BLACK BOX CALF, 39/6
Enlarged catalogue of men’s and women’s
footwear posted on request.
ABBEY
Established over 81 years
313 Georjjs St. and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
FPL 112.
Second-hand Saddles
ď
We have a few
GOOD SEC-
OND - HAND
and shop-soiled
SADDLES for
sale. So here*s
i/ovr chanee while they last,
which won’t be long.
SNAP No. I—3 slightly-
used Poley Saddles, as
photograph, in perfect con-
dition ; fully mounted.
Worth £lO, for £6/15/-
SNAP No. 2 —4 shop-soiled
Poley Saddles, good shape,
in perfect order ; with stir-
rups, leathers and girth. Worth
£O/10/-, for £4/15/-
SNAP No. 3—6 British Military
Saddles, unbreakable steel arch
tree, fitted up complete. Worth
£7, for £4/17/6
ItVY CHEAP AM) HUY NOW.
OHN BRUSH,
The Saddle Specialist,
BRISBANE, Q.: 434 Queen Street.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: 371 George Street.
CUTICURA
-o
Best For Both
Mother And Child
Regular use of the Soap, assisted
by the Ointment when required, not
only cleanses and purifies the skin
of children and adults, but tends to
prevent clogging of the pores, the
common cause of pimples and other
unsightly conditions.
Soap Is., Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.’
Cuticura Shaving Stick is. 6d.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
ASSURED POSITIONS! BETTER MONEY!
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession in life. A profession in
which competition is limited and which offers wonderful opportunities if you have any aDint.
and 1 are persevering. Our tuition gives opportunities to students not to be found elsewnerc.
Write for our booklet, telling of positions, salaries and fees, to-day. Start your new career NOW
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £250,000
ALL CLASSES OF INSURANCE EFFECTED.
Probate Disability, Extended Insurance, Non-Forfeiture,
Hospital, Medical and Nurse’s Fees Combined.
Make the event which causes the tax create the cash to pay the tax.
HEAD OFFICE: Hunter House, 26 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
A. McLEAN, Managing Director. R- V. BOOTH, Secretary.
INQUIRIES INVITED.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND AND FINANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
SYDNEY Also at WAGGA & HENTY, LONDON, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE.
Auction Sales j WOOL, FAT STOCK, GRAIN, SHEEPSKINS,
Throughout the Year I HIDES, TALLOW, FURRED SKINS, etc.
Cash Advances on Pastoral Properties and Stock, Wool, Grain and Produce.
Offices: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney. • JAMES KIDD, General Manager for Australia.
Are You Satisfied?
That your debts will be discharged,
That your probate duties will be paid,
That your family will be provided for,
When You Die.
35 3 people met untimely deaths in New South
Wales during 1928 as a result of street accidents.
EFFECT that LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY NOW!
RING OR WRITE TO
A.M.P. SOCIETY
F. T. Bridges, Acting General Manager.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
snrouts. That takes fi'om a month to six
weeks usually. Make the harrow with a
lattice of 3in. pine battens, triangular m
section and about sft. long, and drive .din.
nails through so that they protrude as nicely
spaced teeth. Pull it along with a piece of
rope, but stop using it when the first sign
of sprouting appears. This is not n e( -c s saiy
if seedlings are transplanted to the held, but
I found transplanting laborious and unsatis-
factory.
Success in onion growing is a mattci of
keeping the land quite free of weeds and pro-
tecting the plants from even the slightest 01
winds. Iloes and hand cultivators are handy
for weeding, but you will have to do a good
deal of bending and hand work to remove
weeds that are too close to the plants tor
the tools. If land is infested with bracken
it can never grow an onion crop.
The best method of protecting the growing
plants from wind is to build bag fences.
The crop is ripe and ready for harvesting
when the tops have changed color and should
be dug before the tops have collapsed on to
the ground. Store, if you have to store, in
an airy shed packed into straw, but don t
make the heap too high.
Onion bags can be purchased, and should
be used in preference to chaff bags. Grade
your crop according to size, packing each
grade separately and affix a neat and legible
brand.
HARVESTING COOK SFO()T.
“W.W.J.”: Cocksfoot grass seed is valu-
able; the writer has made £ls clear per acre.
Cut it in fairly small handfuls, and don t
waste time binding it into sheaves, _ but put
it down anyhow, beads slightly raised. A
turn of the wrist does the trick.
If rain comes, keep on cutting; the small
handfuls will soon dry. If rabbits are
troublesome, put a pint of tar in a kerosene-
tin, fill up with boiling water, add a spoon-
ful of kerosene, and stir well. Sprinkle
each handful of grass with the tar w'ater,
giving particular attention to the seed heads,
and the rabbits will leave the seed heads
alone, until one has time to thresh it.
To thresh, hold each handful over a large
tin tub or old milk vat; knock the seed out
with a short stick, pull the tub along and
thresh as you go.
A USEFUL FODDER PLANT.
“L.S.L.” : A clover which is proving the
salvation of poor soils in the northern parts
of Maoriland, and which might prove useful
in some parts of Australia, is Lotus angus-
tissimus (or L. hyspidus) , a hairy annual ot
immense vitality. It will grow in soils that
will not support other fodder plants, and
after being sown with, or top-dressed with,
phosphates it needs neither cultivation nor
other fertilisers. After clearing and burn-
ing, the Maoriland practice is to give three
or four cuts with a disc harrow and a run
over with a clod-crusher to produce a fine,
shallow seed-bed. Sowing is then done with
61b. of seed mixed with 3cwt. Nauru phos-
phate to the acre. No ploughing is done
until after the lotus has done its work.
If the area is not intended or suited for
subsequent cultivation a permanent pasture
may be obtained by adding L. major and
Paspalum dilataturn to the mixture, and
hand-sowing after the burn. The angus-
iissimus is deep-rooting and nitrogen-fixing,
and has proved itself a splendid nurse-plant.
Land sown with the mixture grows feed
two to three feet high the following spring,
and though the L. major and paspalum are
not much in evidence, they gradually take
possession and form a heavy drought-resist-
ing summer pasture.
Nauru phosphate is recommended because,
though the same price, it has twice the
value of super, on acid soils; super, being
only 44 to 46 p.c. tricalcic phosphate to
Nauru’s 85 p.c.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
What methods of 7-abbit destruction are
used by the Pasture Protection Boards,
N.S.W.? —8543.
Poisoning (cyanide of potassium excep-
ted), fumigation, digging out, destruction
of harbor, hunting and shooting.
May bandicoots be trapped or poisoned in
"N.S. W. ? —BO7O.
Bandicoots are protected under the Birds
and Animals’ Protection Act, so trapping
is forbidden. But where it is found that
protected animals are proving iniurious to
any property, the Minister may grant a
license to the owner to destroy them. Any
unlicensed person who poisons any protected
animal is liable to a penalty of £SO.
(1) How often should one irrigate potatoes
under the furrow system? (2) Cause of
“holloics” and dark streaks in potatoes? (3)
What fertiliser to use for cultivation of
potatoes where soil is sandy? (4) Is the
sprinkler method of applying water better
than the open furrow method? —8708.
(1) If the furrow system only is adopted,
one irrigation prior to cultivation and the
planting of the seed potato; and another,
if dry conditions still obtain, when the plants
are about half-grown and before any sign
of the tubers forming is apparent. Any
form of irrigation subsequent to the forma-
tion of the tubers is apt to lead to second
growth. (2) Probably due to forcing. Under
abnormal conditions combined with a rich
alluvial soil, the variety known as Up-to-
date is apt to show “hollows. ’ The dark
streaks may be due to the same cause or
else to a form of bacteriosis. Without a
specimen, however, it is impossible to state
with accuracy. (3) Well-rotted farmyard
manure ploughed in would give the best
result in 'the case stated, with perhaps the
subsequent harrowing in of a complete fer-
tiliser containing, say, 8 to 10 per cent,
potash in sulphate form, applied at the rate
of lAcwt. to 2cwt. per acre. Farmyard
manure should be well rotted and contain a
high percentage of vegetable matter. Dried-
out cow and horse manure alone has little
fertilising virtue. (4) Where potatoes are
to be irrigated, the sprinkler system of
aoplving water is to be preferred to that of
the open furrow, as greater control of soil
moisture is possible.
“Minto” : After cutting thistles burn them
as soon as’ they are dry. If you don’t the-
seeds will ripen and fly away in the wind
to re-seed the paddocks.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Deejay”: Keep a bottle of peroxide of
hydrogen in the cow bail. A little poured
on to sores on the udder after milking
cleanses the wound and reduces poisoning
danger. Sores on the hands of the milker
are all the better for a drop, too. It's
cheap and wonderfully effective.
“Bufforp”: Now is the time to cull the
fowls for market. In selling old hens it
pays best to consign the birds while they
are looking a bit fresh. A bird in moult
with dried-up comb won't bring as much as
the hen that looks business like. The loss
of a few eggs will be compensated by the
increased selling value of the bird.
“G.D.M.”: For preventing blackleg in #
stock there is nothing better than a hypo-
dermic injection of turpentine and garlic.
To secure immunity give three injections
between the end of autumn and the begin-
ning of spring. A handful of garlic is
mashed and then mixed with half a pint of
turpentine. After being strained a teaspoon-
ful of the mixture is injected with a glass
syringe behind the animal’s shoulder, the
skin being first opened with the blade of a
pocket-knife (scald it first to sterilise the
blade). The point of the syringe (also
sterilised) is then pushed an inch or two
deep. If the wound festers, it is a sign
that the animal is immune. Calves so
treated grow quicker in consequence.
“On”: “Eureka” (B. 23/1./’29) says a
kerosene- or petrol-tin will hold certain quan-
tities. I wonder how many have noticed the
change in the size of petrol-tins. They
used to hold 4 l-6th Imperial gallons (667
fluid oz.), which is the equivalent of five
American gallons. Lately the petrol-tins
have been cut dowm to four Imperial
gallons (640 fl. oz.), a reduction of 4 p.c.. by
which the old standards must be lowered.
“8.V.E.”: To make a cheap, effective oint-
ment for every kind of skin ailment, animal
or human, take lib. mutton fat, lib. mutton
suet, 1 tablespoonful kerosene, 1 dessert-
spoonful oil of eucalyptus, 1 tablespoonful
olive oil. Melt the shredded suet in a basin
over boiling water; don’t let it fry. When
melted strain through bacon cloth. When
nearly cool add the kerosene, eucalyptus and
olive oil, and beat up with a whisk. The
result is a light, snow-like ointment. On
our farm in Gippsland we’ve found it
a sure cure for cracked hands, sore teats,
girth- or collar-galls, etc. The girls add a
little lavender or musk and use it as a face
cream.
“.Tack Point”: As autumn approaches and
the hens begin to moult, take note of those
that begin to lose their feathers and go off
the lay early; they are no good. Those
which carry on with the laying until later on
and then moult quickly., are the ones to breed
from in the spring. Sometimes a hen will
keep on laying until well into the moult.
She is specially good and should be bred from
and her progeny marked.
“Essveed” : When sheep bite themselves or
persistently rub against fences and trees, lice
are usually responsible. They should be
dipped without delay; left in the dip for at
least one minute, and their heads pushed
under two or three times. It is not advisable
to dip them after being driven, or when
heated or thirsty.
“Will Seer”: Old milkeans make good
“take-offs” in irrigation distributing chan-
nels. Knock the bottom out of the can, and
place it, bottom inwards, in the bank of the
race where the “take-off” is required. Place
an old bag under the spout, and there is no
danger of disintegration of bank or soil. If
you are watering with canvas hose, all the
better, for the hose fits nicely over the outlet
of the can. The can may be left as a perma-
nent fixture, provided with a lid cap.
“Noah Fraid” : Green vitriol (sulphate of
iron) is particularly useful in cases of para-
sitic diseases of citrus- and fruit-trees. The
crystals are broadcast at the rate of
21b. per tree, preferably after a heavy
rain. When patches of crop die out
here and there through an otherwise
good stand, spread the sulphate on the
affected patch at the rate of loz. per
sq. yd., and the trouble will in all probability
disappear. I have cured mildew in peas and
potato scab by dressing the field with lewt.
of the crystals sown broadcast. The rav-
ages of insects a«e considerably retarded by
a dressing of green vitriol at the rate of
lewt. to 2cwt. per acre —the latter on cal-
careous soils. A crystal placed in the water-
containers in the poultry-yard weekly acts
as a tonic to the birds, and is well worth
while. A solution of 121 b. of the crystals in
10 gallons of hot water is a good weed-
killer. The chemical costs about 10s. a cwt.
“Wonko”: I’ve tried out the theory that
short, dumpy, globular eggs hatch out female
chicks. Three broody hens were set over
short eggs. From a set of seven eggs I got
5 hens and 2 chicks dead in the egg. A set
of 9 eggs brought out 7 hens, 1 infertile and
1 chick dead in the egg. The third brought
out 7 hen chicks from 8 eggs. Intensely hot
weather accounted for the dead chicks.
“Jack Point” : Most poultry farmers will
not start hatching for a few months, but
now is a good time to go over machines, see
to repairs or replacements, and decide how
many chicks are to be hatched this season.
If anew incubator is to be purchased, don’t
leave it till later on, but book your order
now to ensure delivery when you want it.
Otherwise you’ll almost certainly miss the
’bus. It may be taken for granted that the
demand this year for day-old chicks will be
bigger than ever, and the man who has the
chicks to deliver at the right time will not
want for orders.
“R. O’Reilly”: “Horseman” (B. 9/l/’29)
goes too far -when he says sore backs are
incurable. Many horses have been cured,
even in bad cases, with boracic acid
(powder). The back should be washed with
warm water made slightly pink -with Condy’s
crystals, dried carefully with clean rags and
the boracic acid sprinkled on the sore. Keep
the boracic in a clean baking-po-wder tin
wnth a perforated lid, and let it be always
handy in the stables. If water is not laid
on. a couple of kerosene tins of rain-water
and a pannikin should be always ready. A
pint of water poured over the horse’s back
to wash the sweat away, followed by a
sprinkle of boracic acid, goes a long way
towards warding off trouble.


Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
4l _ T ~°f selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
WooLlasser-overseer wishes to buy work-
***£, interest with contractor, Queensland or
N.S.W. —8752.
English lady would like position as com-
panion on N.S.W. station, any district. —8751.
Practical miner wants job in New Guinea
or Islands.—8771.
Scotsman, returned from trip abroad, seeks
position as station manager any State, 10
years’ Australian experience, also veterin-
ary and stock experience, Scotland. Re-
ferences.—8807.
Station handy-man, carpenter, own tools,
wants work on station anywhere.—8820.
Partner wanted for mixed farm close to
market, Tasmania.—8831.
Australian (23), used farm work, good
worker and honest, car-driver and mechanic,
wants job anywhere. (To G. Stewart, 42
Jarrett-street, Leichhardt, Sydney.)
Handy young man (28) wants work in
the Islands.—8813.
Ex-sailor (34), R.N. and mercantile
marine, single, robust, knowledge of boats,
rigging, painting, cooking, wants job; would
tackle anything.—8798.
Lady (35), Vic.,'would like to correspond
with Bulletin readers, opposite sex, in
Q’land, N.S.W. and Islands. —8803.
Middle-aged lady, Sydney, giving up home,
would like light position as housekeeper to
one or two gentlemen, country preferred.—
8773.
Handy young man (28) wants work in the
Islands.—8838.
Victorian (24) wants position anywhere;
used to clerking, overseeing, and car- and
truck-driving. Excellent references. —8775.
Man (40), Sydney, can handle machines,
farm and station implements, drive car, keep
books, wants job.—8834.
To purchase rough tortoise-shell. Quote
price per lb.—8777.
To buy “My Brilliant Career” (Miles
Franklin), “True Eyes and the Whirlwind”
and “The Snare of Strength” (Randolph
Bedford), and “Jonah” (Louis Stono). —8782.
To buy any quantity 3d. Kookaburra
stamps; or would exchange other stamps
for them. (To William Wade, Whish-street,
Windsor, Brisbane).
To correspond with readers who will sell
parts of “Wonders of the Past,” by Ham-
merton, or books on the Pyramids.—8788.
To communicate with breeders of blood-
hounds and donkeys.—8761.
To exchange shop site, 45ft. x 130ft.,
opposite main-line station (N.S.W.), for
stout sailing-boat.—8733.
To hear from lonely people (N. or W.Q.
preferred) who would like to correspond with
educated (but not highbrow) woman of 35.
—8793.
Words of verse entitled “Mirilyirilyiri.”
—8809.
Information Sought.
Is a N.S.W. widow whose son was hilled
in the war and who is in receipt of a military
pension entitled to the benefits of the State
Widows' Pension Act? She has no other
children living. —8723.
In the circumstances mentioned, no. The
Widows’ Pensions Act provides that a widow
shall not be qualified to receive a pension
unless “she has at the date of her applica-
tion a child under the age of 14 years who is
dependent wholly or mainly upon her for
support.”
(1) 1 have written a novel. In the event
of an Australian papdr publishing it as a
serial, would I afterwards have the right
to offer it to an overseas firm for publication
in book form? —8796.
Yes, provided you dispose of the first Aus-
tralian serial right only. You should be care-
ful to stipulate that beforehand and see that
it is mentioned on the receipt for payment.
Qualifications of a public health officer in
N.S.W. Where can I take a course of in-
struction to enable me to sit for examination,
and how long would such a course last? —
8641.
An examination for sanitary inspectors’
certificates is conducted in Sydney in
December of each year by the local
board of examiners for the Royal Sani-
tary Institute of London. To be eli-
gible for the exam, it is necessary to
obtain instruction from the Sydney Technical
College in practical sanitation, sanitary law
and meat inspection. The courses are given
from February to December each year, and
instruction can be obtained by correspond-
ence where it is impracticable to attend
classes. Further information may be ob-
tained from the Superintendent of the Tech-
nical College, Ultimo. A syllabus of the
Royal Sanitary Institute will be forwarded
on application to E. A. Cresswick, hon.
local secretary, 11 Phillip-street, Sydney.
A method of stainingi a walnut floor, 20 ft.
by 50 ft., at a reasonable cost?— 8776.
Dissolve crystals of permanganate of
potash (Condy’s) in hot water in a cut-down
kerosene-tin, and try a little on a corner of
the floor till the right tint is obtained by
adding more crystals or water as necessary.
Apply with an old mop. This stain is used
in large institutions with extensive floors
to cover, and is always satisfactory.
How to give a small concrete model a
bronze finish? —8570.
Give it one or two coats of gold bronze
powder mixed with liquid shellac (shellac
is made linuid bv dissolving in methylated
spirits) ; this will dry immediately. Then
give a coat of burnt umber diluted with turps.
Wipe off with cloth while wet until the
desired effect is secured.
(1) Names of small settlements in the
Federal Territory outside Canberra? (2)
Number of one-teacher schools in the Terri-
tory with residences? (3) Does the Terri-
tory, apart from Canberra, carry a fairly
large agricultural population? —B4Bo.
(1) Hall, Tharwa, Ginninderra, Weetan-
gera, Nass, Tuggeranong, Tidbinbilla, Wil-
liamsdale, Royalla, Gudgenby, Mulligan’s
Flat, Majura. (2) There are nine one-
teacher schools: Gibraltar, Hall, Majura,
Royalla, Williamsdale. Tuggeranong, Weet-
angera, Tharwa and Mulligan’s Flat. Weet-
angera and Tuggeranong are the only schools
provided with a residence for the teacher.
(3) Apart from Canberra, it is almost exclu-
sively a pastoral area, and i« fairly well
settled as pastoral areas go.
(1) What is the demand for chrome iron
in Australia or overseas? (2) Market price?
(3) Arc there different grades of chrome?
(4) What is the ore principally used for? —
8702.
(1) Small in Australia but good overseas,
provided you can produce regularly the right
grade. (2) From £4 ss. to £4 ,15s. per ton,
delivered London or European port. (3) Ore
should assay from 48 p.c. to 52 p.c. chromium
oxide. (4) Steel-making.
Recipe for a wax for polishing a hardwood
dance floor? —8050.
Take any required quantity of dark brown
beeswax and shred it into a cut-down kero-
sene tin. Add turpentine to cover it, and
set to dissolve in a warm place or over a
gentle fire. Remember that it is highly in-
flammable, and is best left to dissolve away
from a fire, though this takes longer. More
turpentine may be added to bring to the
consistency of a smooth paste, which should
be well stirred before using. Cloudy
ammonia may be added if it seems slightly
sticky.
What is the distance by rail from Armi-
dale ( N.S.W. ) to Cloncurry ( Q’land ), and
the second-class fare? —8676.
Distance, 1669 miles ; fare from Armidale
to Wallangarra 18s. 9d.; from Wallangarra
to Cloncurry, £5 3s. 6d. Through tickets
are not issued.
(1) What, are the prospects of making
a living at fishing on the Mwray? (2) Best
locality? (3) Facilities for sending the fish
to market? (4) Would a capital of £IOO
be sufficient? (5) Where could I get the
necessary license? —8684.
(1) Uncertain. Success is governed to
a great extent by the seasons. In good
years with fairly high river, competent
fishermen do well; in low clear water in
dry years their* catches fall to a non-
payable minimum, and most river fishermen
follow some other calling in such conditions.
(2) A long stretch of lightly-worked water
lies between Moira Lakes and Swan Hill,
but we cannot recommend any particular
locality. (3) Railway transport to Mel-
bourne market is available at numerous
places along the Murray. (4) All a fisher-
man requires in a small way—light boat,
drum and meshing nets, lines, etc. —need
not cost nearly £IOO. (5) License procurable
at the Treasury, Sydney; ss. per annum.
If you have no river fishing experience, you
would do well to visit the Murray and
observe the fishermen’s methods before
spending your money on plant.
How to take stains off a white bath tub?
—8621.
Rub thoroughly with a flannel soaked in
kerosene and polish with a silk duster. If
very obstinate, rub with a mixture of ashes
and sand slightly moistened, or use Old
Dutch cleanser.
(1) An Australian, I wish to study at an
American university. What publications give
the necessary information? (2) Are students
subject to the quota laic? (3) How long
does the ordinary person wishing to emigrate
to the U.S.A. have to wait before being
admitted? (4) Can a studeit’s stay in the
U.S.A. be deducted from the time he would
have to wait to gain entry as an immigrant?
(5) What physical and financial qualifica-
tions are necessary to gain entry as an
immigra.it ? —8583.
(1) “Guidebook for Foreign Students in
the U.5.A.,” published by the Institute of
International Education, 522 Fifth-avenue,
New York; and “Facilities for Foreign
Students in American Colleges and Univer-
sities,” obtainable from Government Print-
ing Office, Washington, D.C. (15 cents). (2)
The U.S. immigration laws permit students
who matriculate in approved institutions of
higher education to enter the country with-
out regard to the quota, and remain there
as long as they continue their studies. At
the end of such period of education they are
supposed to leave, and if they wish to re-
enter they must go in on the quota basis.
(3) Persons wishing to emigrate to the
United States usually have to wait some
time after placing their names on the wait-
ing list before quota numbers are available.
This depends on country of birth. In the
Sydney office at the present time it is
usually estimated that there will be two
years’ waiting for persons of British (Eng-
lish) birth, and four years for persons of
Australian birth. (4) No. Persons in the
U.S.A. on a student visa cannot be considered
on the waiting list at the same time. (5)
Persons emigrating to the United States must
present a physician’s certificate of good health.
Persons with physical defects calculated to
prevent or hinder earning a livelihood are
not admissible. Immigrants are supposed to
be in possession of at least a modest amount
of money, but there is no' definite sum
designated.
Is the cost of living appreciably higher in
Canberra thar in N.S.W.? —84S0.
Food and groceries are dearer in the
Federal Capital Territory than in Sydney
and in the majority of towns in N.S.W.;
Broken Hill is an exception. Taking rent
into account the cost of living is higher in
Canberra than in N.S.W. Cheap rents save
the situation so far as Broken Hill is con-
cerned.
In a game of draw poker: (1) What is
the correct time to have a jack pot? (2)
Can the table demand to see the faces of the
opener's cards? (3) Is it a mis-deal if (a)
a player is missed out, (b) or if he is dealt
or picks up fewer than fire cards, or (c)
more than five cards? —8730.
, (1) After all the players have refused
to bet. (2) No. (3) (a) yes, (b) yes, (c)
yes. These conventions may, however, be
varied by previous agreement among the
players.
(1) A soldier, unmarried, was killed in
1017, leaving as next-of-kin an only sister —
the sole beneficiary under his will. The sister
married in 1919. Is she entitled to war
gratuity? (2) Must she have been dependent
upon her brother to receive the gratuity? —
8646.
(1) Under the War Gratuity Act war
gratuity is not payable ns a right and is not
claimable by the executor or administrator
of a deceased soldier’s estate. Therefore
the sister would not be entitled to payment
as a right. (2) In order to have a good
claim the lady, in addition to being a bene-
ficiary under the soldier’s will, would have
to prove dependency on him.
A method of making oilcoats? —8726.
They can be made from any good pattern
cut out of strong unbleached calico, all
seams being flatly made on the run-and-fell
system, to assist waterproofing. When
finished, buttonholes included, the coats are
dipped several times in boiled linseed oil;
between each dipping they are hung on a
coat-hanger in a cool, draughty place (not
in the sun) to dry.
Who designed and built the Bathurst
courthouse and the post and telegraph build-
ings on either side? —8623.
James Barnet, who became Colonial Archi-
tect in N.S.W. in 1865. The courthouse
was built by contract in 1878. The contrac-
tors were David Jones, .T. C. White and T.
Halliday. The post and telegraph buildings
were erected about 1875.
What route would one take to Mexico from
Australia, and the approximate cost of a
short tour there? —8749.
The most direct route is by steamer to San
Francisco and thence by rail to San Diego.
Fares to San Francisco are £73 first-class,
£SO 10s. second-class, £3l 10s. third; first-
class rail from there is about £5. Another
way is by steamer to Panama to Havana
and to Vera Cruz. Fares altogether would
be approximately £45 third-class, £75 second-
class and £ll7 10s. first-class. Touring in
Mexico would cost about £3 15s. per day,
which would cover first-class rail, hotels and
sightseeing.
7 want to become a N.S.W. fireman. Must
1 be 21?—5578.
Yes; candidates for the N.S.W. Fire Ser-
vice must be from 21 to 30, sft. 7in. in height
without boots and 36in. in chest measure-
ment without expansion. They are required
to pass an educational test and a rigid medi-
cal examination. But there are no vacan-
cies, and there are 600 applicants on the
waiting-list.
(1) What chance would a young man with
four years' experience among sheep have of
gettng a job in the Argentine? (2) Wages
of such workers? (3) Would it be worth
while writing to the Aus. Mercantile Land
and Finance Co.'s branch in Buenos Ayres
about a job? (4) Would it be necessary to
be able to speak Spanish? —B74s.
(1) Not very much, unless he had in-
fluence. (2) About £BO to £IOO per annum
at most until experienced and able to speak
Spanish fluently.; (3) The Buenos Ayres
office of the co. you refer to would doubtless
give information if written to, but we don’t
think it would recommend Australians to
proceed to the Argentine unless they have
positions secured beforehand. (4) A good
knowledge of Spanish is essential. English
is very little used.
The best way to cleanse a slimy sponge?
—8722.
Wash it thoroughly in hot water con-
taining a handful of common salt or a
tablespoon of cloudy ammonia. Squeeze as
dry as possible, and dry completely in the
sun. Beat it in the hands to restore to
softness. If rinsed in clean water daily
after using, and thoroughly dried in a rack,
the condition will not recur.
How to soften well water which comes
through ironstone and upon which a rusty
scum forms when allowed to stand. I want
to make it suitable for gardening and wash-
ing clothes? —8627.
The water evidently contains an excessive
amount of iron salts in solution. These
salts can be removed by adding a small quan-
tity of hydrated lime, about two ounces to
400 gallons of water, and stirring well in.
After allowing the precipitated iron salts
to settle at the bottom of the tank the clear
water can be decanted and used for washing
or garden purposes. It is, of course, assumed
that the water contains no appreciable
amount of other substances.
(1) I have £2000; is it sufficient to pur-
chase, on deposit, a small sheep-holding
(say, 1000 acres), preferably in the Upper
Hunter district? (2) In the case of a mar
having a good knowledge of sheep, what
might be an average gross return from such
a holding? (3) Names of firms dealing in
such properties who would supply further
information ? —8574.
(1) It is rather small, as money for
stock and carrying on expenses! has to be
considered. A thousand acres in the dis-
trict mentioned would cost, with homestead,
etc., £6 or £7 per acre. (2) Perhaps £7OO
to £750 per annum, but earning capacity de-
pends so much upon management. (3)
Winchcombe Carson’s, and Goldsbrough
Mort’s.
Does Anybody Know?
A good recipe for axle-grease?—BSl4.
Brief Answers.
C.C.: They can pay interest just like Aus-
tralia is doing it—by the simple process of borrow-
ing more. That they offer a high rate of interest
doesn’t prove they are earning it; it may only
mean that they are finding it darned hard to get
of new loans C. 8.: There is no higher
authority than the shareholders, nor any provision
in law by which an auditor may be called in
Ajax: (1) The people behind it have lived on their
failures. (2) A reconstruction is probable; these
people are honest enough. (3) Got a good name;
but sampling is much more difficult than it looks.
(4) Office data so far insufficient... .J.T.S.: (1)
Certainly. (2) Yes, they are traded in daily. (3)
About £sl; a 12 J p.c. div. thus gives a return of
about £4 18s. p.c. on the £2O share. (4) The
seller pays brokerage... .L.H.: You are liable for
the rates Kerang: A first-class laundry plant
could be installed for from £IOOO to £1100;
floor space required would be 1300 to 1400 square
feet. Get in touch with the Ilardie Trading Pty.,
581 Little Collins-street, Melbourne. .. .S.C.: (1)
Average return per hive per annum might run from
761 b. to 1501 b. of extracted honey; it would de-
pend upon the strength of the colonies and the
distance from honey-bearing plants. (2) Price would
be round about 4d. per lb. wholesale J.P.F.:
Fred Johns, editor of “Who’s Who in Australia,”
gives the figure as either 49 or 51....H-.K.: “Prin-
ciples of the Law of Agency,” by Reimer and Teb-
butt (155.), from Dymock’s. “Crown Lands Act,
N.5.W.,” by Brierly and Irish (605.) ; “Law Re
fating to Estate Agents and Auctioneers,” by Dean
(155.) ; “Real Property Law in N.5.W.,” by Millard
and Millard (425.) ; “Real Estate Accounts,” by
John N. Zillman (155.) ; all from Law Book Cos.,
Sydney... .E.M.M.: “Wallawalla” means “rain”....
R. 8.: Secretary, Air Board, Defence Dept., Mel-
bourne, will supply pamphlets on how to join the
Air Force... .R.D.: Sunraysia Daily, Mildura, Vic-
toria. .. .C.S.Q.: Suggest you communicate with A.
W. Dolamore, 342 Collins-street; S. J. Warnock,
84 William-street; C. B. Norton, 800 Collins-street —
all of Melbourne... .11.A.N.: Dressmaking and mil-
linery are taught by correspondence by the Sydney
Technical College; fees for each subject, £1 Is. per
term.... H.M.: (1) From £IOO to £l5O upwards.
(2) If the ketch is used for trading she must
carry a seagoing certificate of survey, be properly
manned and under the care of a duly certificated
seagoing master. A waterman’s license is not
applicable in such a case... .R.R.S.: Mt. Isa (Q.)
is about 60 miles by road from Duchess, on the
Great North-Western Railway, the main depot of
which is at Townsville. A line is under construction
between Duchess and Mt. Isa; a motor-car service
is already established. Duchess can be reached by
rail from Melbourne, or by boat to Townsville and
thence by rail.... Maitland Point: You do not
give sufficient information. Communicate with the
Dept, of Labor, Sydney, giving particulars of the
work performed. .. .G.C.: (1) Aust. Painter-Etchers’
Society, 393 George-street; Aust. Art Soc. (W. M.
Whitney, Dugald-road, Mosman) ; Aust. Water-Color
Soc. (H. W. Grace, Copeland-street, Beecroft) ; Royal
Art Soc. of N.S.W., 76 Pitt-street; Soc. of Artists
(C. 11. Read, 19 O’Connell-strect) ; Soc. Women
Painters, 111 Queen Victoria B’ld’gs, George-street;
Soc. of Aust. Painters and Craftsmen and Group
of Contemporary Painters (both care of Grosvenor
Galleries, 219 George-street)—these are the principal
exhibiting art societies in Sydney. (2) Director
National Art Gallery of N.S.W., The Domain....
W.A.K.: A school is conducted by the Institute of
Optometrists, 74 Pitt-street, Sydney; it is a three-
years’ course.... R.W.: (1) Apply at offices of ship-
ping cos., but the chances .are remote —hundreds of
applications are received weekly. (2) You would
have to start as a cadet steward ; wages, £9 17s. 6d.
per month. (3) Depends upon the person’s ability.
Generally a second steward’s position can be secured
after 12 months to 2 years. .. . V.A. J.: (1) The
2)d. Tasmania is worth about 6d., if unused; the
ljd. surcharge is worth face value only. (2) Try
W. Orchard, Elizabeth-street, Hobart.... A.M.: Get
in touch with John Phillips, Mt. Keira, Wollongong,
N.S.W D.H.S.: Mr. S. Smith, jun., secretary,
Stock and Brands Branch, Dept, of Agriculture,
Sydney, will be pleased to supply literature and
information on the subject... .J.A.F.; A can refuse
to vary the original agreement and should insist
on B adhering to it. It would be injudicious for
him to acquiesce in B’s suggestion... .W. 5.8.: (1)
Owner of land in Vic. may make such a dam on
his holding, provided the flow in the stream is not
sensibly diminished. Authority from the Rivers and
Water Supply Commission, Melbourne, is, however,
necessary before any such diversion of water can be
made. (2 and 3) Local conditions are involved, and
therefore an engineer in the district should be con-
sulted J.R.M.: Assuming the property is real
estate, the trustee cannot claim. See section 98,
sub-section 3, of the Federal Bankruptcy Act
C.L.J.: Write to or call on the Chief Veterinary’ Sur-
geon, Stock and Brands Branch, Dept, of Agriculture,
Sydney V.G.: Would not advise you to try to
sharpen haircutters yourself; send them to a grinder,
such as Cheetham and Sons, 237 Elizabeth-street,
or Milham and Sons, 20 Goulburn-street, Sydney
H.L.: The process is too long to give in detail, but
it is started by molten lead being dropped from a
tower, from 100 to 120 feet high. Manufacture at
home is out of the question T.H.: Persons married
by a District Registrar cannot be legally married a
second time; a church ceremony afterwards would
not constitute a marriage in law... .M.M.M.: Mill
Andrade, Central Chambers, 173 Pitt Street, Sydney;
or Sir Robert Bear’s Bookshop, 19 Royal Arcade,
Sydney A.V.C.: Carter’s “Advanced Accounts”
(Australasian Edition; 155.) ; Barton’s “Australasian
Advanced Accountancy” (305.) and “Australasian
Auditing” (305.) ; Jacobs and Holman’s “Australian
Mercantile Law” (265.); Campbell’s “N.S.M. Com-
panies Act” (305.) ; all from Dymock’s, Sydney)
J.G.; Apply Registrar-General, H.M. General
Register House, Edinburgh, Scotland... .P.N.8.:
Gloaming (57 wins, 9 seconds) earned £43,100
in stakes; Heroic (21 wins 11 seconds, 4 thirds),
£38,062 10s. ; and Eurythmic (30J wins, 6 seconds),
£36,891 J.H.L.: (1) Soldiers’ Memorial Hall,
Raglan-street, Manly. (2) Under the Queensland
station-hands’ award, a general station-hand employed
on a sheep-station must be paid £3 10s. per week
with keep ; on a cattle-station, £3 per week with
keep. (3) The conditions and terms are too long to
specify here; write to the Agricultural Bank, Box
1238, G.P.0., Sydney, for “Advances to Settlers”
pamphlet... .J.L.: Presume you require Australian
figures; if so, 5,267,641 persons (97 p.c. of the
population) enumerated in 1921 were classified as
“Christians.” R.C.’s numbered 1,134,002 ; Protes-
tants, 4,089,608. There were 2868 Mohammedans.
A.L.: Don’t think you can get mate in Sydney;
it can be procured direct from F. F. Fontano and
Cos., Avenida Joao Gualberto, 25 and 29, Curityba.
Parana, Brazil E.C.S. ;A. P. MacKerras, Fisher-
avenue, Vaucluse, N.S.W., who is secretary of the
Astronomical Society, will be able to help.... (Many
others mailed).


Ch rys ler
m
:
Y&9* if
3*
•fti;
9%
\
r- .
T T-r
I
fvJ
L ~ 2
O
=f
3*
*»**
<•«
H
£
I/:
r
££
<i
£
ft
\
/
New Chrysler "75” Roadster {'with rumble seat )
Chrysler’s only real competition
is
Chrysler
The first Chrysler
established a margin
of superiority over all
other cars in style, per-
formance and value that
has been maintained ever
since. . . tj The true com-
petition Chrysler has to face
therefore is with Chrysler—
to make sure that each suc-
ceeding Chrysler is superior in
every worth-while way to the
Chryslers that have gone before.
.. . To-day the public demand
for the newest Chryslers tells
in no uncertain terms how well
Chrysler has succeeded. Chrysler’s
largest production now is just begin-
ning to satisfy that demand. . .
IJThe public is delighted with the
elements of the new style that re-styles
all motor-cars; — new slender-profile radiator,
arched windows
and the graceful
sweep of the new
“air-wing” fenders—
avoidance everywhere
of the bulky and cum-
bersome. . . CJ And for
smooth performance, riding
luxury and safety—“Silver-
dome” high-compression
engine, using any gasoline;
counterweighted 7-bearing
crankshaft; internal expanding
hydraulic 4-wheel brakes, efficient
in any weather; rubber shock
insulators in place of metal shackles
and hydraulic shock absorbers. . .
fj There are other cars which seek to
compare themselves with Chrysler in
style, performance and value which really
do not compare with Chrysler at all.
Chrysler’s only real competitor is—Chrysler.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS
JSi.S.W.: LarJee Neave & Carter, Ltd., William Street, Sydney.
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
South Aus.: 0. T. Rodda Motors, Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West Ans.: William Attwood, 299-SOI Murray Street, Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington.
New Guinea: W. B. Carpenter & Co., Ltd., Babaul.


■ : -
1111 l
tpipiipti
ggillPill
111 l
Si
NS
WHATA
VALUE]
THIS IS
Can’t
Know the
Value
Till
You
Drive the
Or”
Oldsmobile’s tremendous success is
the inevitable result of value. Every
comparison reveals beauty, luxury,
performance and engineering un-
equalled at Oldsmobile’s price.
Consider Its Appearance
Its voguish new bodies are the dis-
tinctive creations of artist-engineers.
Its low, sweeping, graceful lines
express smartness and luxury in every
detail. Rich upholsteries, panelings
and appointments complete its fine-
car beauty.
You enjoy costly car luxury and
comfort—and you get it at a lower
price!
Consider Its Performance
A great new engine develops power
for every need speed for every
desire. A new cylinder head of
General Motors Research design pro-
vides the brilliant pick-up and flexi-
bility of a high-compression engine,
without the use of special fuels.
And Oldsmobile offers the additional
advantages of exceptional handling
ease and finger-tip steering. It turns
completely in a 36-foot circle and
slips easily into parking spaces far
too small for the average car.
It possesses unusual stamina and long-
life—proved by more than a million
miles of testing at the General
OLDSMOE
GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Metrop
Melbourne: Lane’s Motors Pty., Ltd., Russell Strec
Brisbane: Pacific Motors, Ltd., Ann and Wickham St
Perth: E. D. T £


' * *
.« --
' *■
■
-.V-
-• >/■
m
Wi
M
■
■
gpn
SSM
n
m
V
fe-
§
m
■:
-
'
i
gd
Motors Proving Ground—and now
confirmed by millions of miles of
driving in the hands of enthusiastic
owners. You get infinitely finer
performance—and you get it at a
lower price!
Consider Its Equipment
This new Oldsmobile comes com-
pletely equipped, as a really fine car
should be.
Four hydraulic shock absorbers elim-
inate road shocks and provide a
smooth ride over even the roughest
highways. Deep - cushioned, form-
fitting seats complete the restful com-
fort.
Vertical radiator shutters are an im-
portant feature and both the petrol
gauge and water temperature gauge
are carried on the instrument panel.
Rubber cushioning, used wherever cush-
ioning should go, assures a silenced chassis.
And special sound deadening insulation
between body and chassis creates a silenced
interior, a wonderfully enjoyable feature.
You will find every fine car quality at its
best in this Fine Car of Low Price.
Come and take a drive. A half-hour at
the wheel will demonstrate why more
and more thousands are choosing this
new Oldsmobile.
The better they know it, the better they
like it. And when you know it as they
do, you too will say, " What a value
this is! ”
THE TOURER
£330
The
Sports Roadster £3BO
The
Two-door Sedan £398
The
Four-door Sedan £450
BUY FROM YOUR
LOCAL DEALER
ILE SIX
Sydney: Boyd Edkins, Ltd., Phillip Street.
Adelaide: Vivian Lewis, Ltd., Franklin Street,
Ltd., Hay Street.
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR


0.
! — *
I H t
: M \i
! 5 1
/ : y
Ft
s
I;
.v-'v
U.—’
m\
)
N,—
1
L*J SE-i.w "n
“Its Quality Never Changes
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
ACCURATE SHOOTING AT 500 YARDS.
ďf
ďf
ď
NEW IMPROVED CADET RIFLE.
Hundreds of satisfied Shooters have used
297/230 CALIBRE CADET RIFLES.
This is an ideal sporting rifle. Fires a central fire cartridge larger than a --2
calibre, and is accurate up to 500 yards. 24in. barrel. Under-lever Jlar mi
action, quick and certain in extraction of empty shells. Detachable lock. Jiilevating
ladder rear sight and protected bead front sight. Fitted complete with chiming
rod and brush /3/ -
CARTRIDGES.—Long (actual size illustrated) ...; 7/6 per 100
Short 5/6 „ >,
%oc4& < fyc ; ice
t ■■ i
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
SMOKE-OH!
NEW VERSION (For Husbands).
Go, lovely rose,
Tell her who means so much to me
That now she knows —
Over the matter of my coming home in a
sozzled condition last night, and having
failed to post her letters, and forgotten to
buy the bacon, and omitted to get my hair
cut, and lost the whole of my week’s pay
at the races—
How siveet and fair I hope she'll he.
P. P.
MISMATED.
THE VAMP : “Do you think marriage is
often a success?”
THE CYNIC: “Well, I’ve noticed that the
bride never gets the best man.”
Sydney E. News :
Without the slightest compunction, he dived into the
boiling surf off 13en Buckler.
But it is at places like Bondi and Manly
that cruelty to boiling surf is practised on
a wholesale scale.
* ¥
“Sir Austen Chamberlain said that Bri-
tain had no dearer friend than the U.S.A.”
Uncle Sam’s interest in Australia is also in-
creasing yearly.
“A man who loft a loaded waggon in a
Sydney street discovered five minutes later
that it had disappeared.” The next thing
to subside into one of these street holes will
be the Town Hall.
* *
“Bagpipes aid King’s recovery.” They beat
bloodhounds as a method of keeping un-
wanted callers away.
* ¥
“Although he did not make his appearance
on the stage during his four months’ stay in
Australia, he made many friends.” Or should
it be “Because”?
During the performance of a pantomime
in Melbourne a piece of falling scenery
knocked out the Dame. It was an effective
reply to those critics who deny that com-
edians receive justice in Australia.
* *
“Handsome is as handsome does” —
So the adage goesj
Within a week the handsome sheik
I introduced to Rose
Had won her heart. She then returned
My letters, presents and some
Other things including rings.
The sheik had done me handsome!
Mepiiisto.
WHEN THE BLESSED CHANGE
CAME.
THE LADY IN THE FURS : “But I bet you
wouldn’t say it is not cold, dear, if you
had a fur coat.”
Rumored that owing to the Geary crisis
and the Blackie misunderstanding following
on the Kippax embroglio, the League of
Nations is moving to have the' fifth Test
stopped.
* *
“Is pantomime on the decline?” asks a
dramatic critic. Judging by the panto jokes
we have heard recently! its prospects are
very blue.
A recent visitor to Italy said he raised
his hat to Mussolini. Visitors to Australia
only raise their hats, as a rule, to talk
through them.
JILTED (1929 MODEL).
“You’ve lost your hoy, / hear,” said Oert.
“I’ll het you’re sick of life.”
“Yes, damitall!" said Maud. “The squirt
Has gone hack to his wife!”
¥ *
“Officials of the Miners’ Federation decline
to make any statement.” If the miners go
on sawing wood the difficulty in the timber
trade may yet be solved.
SHE KNEW POETS.
THE POET: “Little maiden, it’s very sad to
think that nobody will know what I
have done until after I am dead.”
THE LITTLE MAIDEN: “Well, wotcher grow-
lin’ at? That makes you safe, doesn’t
it?”
The sainted mother of the latest recruit
to the No-liat Brigade was thoroughly upset
when she heard about it.
“But what’s the objection on religious
grounds?” inquired the delinquent.
“Oh, it’s so simple!” she cried grievously.
“When you go to church or see a funeral
pass, how on earth are you going to show
reverence by lifting your hat when you
haven’t got one?”
THE SOCIETY PARIAH.
“It is most disquieting to realise that you are
being guilty of a social error by taking mustard
with mutton.”
“It is extremely aggravating to know that you
are not allowed to pick up a bone.”
“After all, it is cutting it a bit fine when you
cannot put pepper on eggs.”
—Sydney News.
“Now who is the wan aristocrat, in immacu-
late evening-dress,
Who wears, with the badge of the Mustard
Club, a look of dire distress?
Has he doped a horse or welshed at cards
that his face is like a pall?"
The Social Arbiter shook his head. “Far
better if that were all.
“You see before you a ruined man, an out-
cast eater of lamb,
Who has plastered his cutlets with mustard
as I might plaster ham;
Who has picked up such things as turkeys'
wings, and ducks' and chickens' legs,
And, blackest crime of all, has been seen to
SCATTER PEPPER ON EGGS/
“Some talked of having our rules revised—
his family's pull is great.
But it came to nothing, and rightly so. He’s
just been told his fate.
He resigns from all his clubs to-night, gets
rid of his dinner-coat,
And goes abroad ivith an altered name on
the first outgoing boat."
D.
LINES TO AN IMMORTAL.
7 low [ love your flaxen hair,
Simple knee-length skirt,
Rounded arms and neck so bare!
Sweet you are, though peri,
Buzzing like a little bee.
Through the social whirl.
As you did in nineteen-three,
When you were a girl!
DORIC.
GEELONG FOR SAFETY.
(A Modern Detective Thriller.)
“Percy Davey Wynne, a solicitor, who was sen-
tenced to seven years’ penal servitude for misappro-
priating money, was released on bail in 1924, but
absconded, and nothing further was heard of him
until December, 1928, when he was arrested at Gee-
long, where he was conducting an estate agency
under the name of Percy Davis.” —Melbourne Auuus.
The key men of the Geelong police force
were on the alert. A burglary had been
committed in Williamstown, and the neigh-
bors had rushed in to find the victim breath-
ing his last beside a rifled safe with a carv-
ing-knife inscribed “James Smith-Brown” in
his back. “A tall man did it.” he had
gasped. “Right eye missing. Walks with a
limp. Scar on back of left hand. Said he
was on his way to Geelong.”
He had then expired.
An hour and a half later a tall man might
have been seen limping into the Geelong
branch of the Y. A. and N. Bank. He had
placed a scarred left hand on the counter,
settled his right ('ye, which was of glass, into
a more comfortable position, aud expressed
a wish to open an account.
“For how much?” inquired the manager.
“£2750.”
(With blinding force it had at once struck
the manager that this was the precise sum
stolen from Williamstown.)
“And the name?” lie had asked penetrat-
ingly.
“John Brown-Smith.”
* # * *
The best brains' of No. XO Police Station
(the Geelong equivalent of Scotland Yard)
were in conclave. Barely a year had elapsed,
yet already these human sleuths were hot on
the trail. John Brown-Smith, alderman
and mayor-presumptive, popular social figure
and plus-2 golfer, was under suspicion of
being the man wanted in connection with the
Williamstown mystery.
“Rubbish!” roared “Big Mike” O’Brien,
who, in his capacity of traffic constable, had
seen qiore crooks pass to and fro than most
men.
“Wodger mean, rubbish?” demanded the
recruit to the force irritably.
Mike pointed to the book-cases of detective
stories and plays, which lined the walls
around them.
“Read yer Edgar Wallace,” lie said. “Don’t
this cove Brown-Smith answer in every re-
spect to Smith-Brown? Hasn’t he got a
glass eye? Didn’t Smitli-Brown have a
scarred left hand? And didn’t he pinch £2750?
And now tell me this: Did you ever, in all
your reading or playgcing, find that the
cove who looked and behaved like the crimi-
nal was the criminal?” ,
It was a woodener.
The detectives dispersed baffled.
Mr. Brown-Smith was elected Mayor of
Geelong the following year, and narrowly
missed winning the Amateur Golf Champion-
ship.
# 4" * *
Long afterwards Sir John Brown-Smith,
K.8.E., died. Amongst his effects was found
a half-finished letter to a friend discussing
his (Sir John’s) guilt in the matter of the
Williamstown affair, and marvelling at the
bone-headedness of the Geelong police and
public.
“Rot!” roared “Big Mike,” when he was
shown this evidence. He pointed to the
library, which was his Bible. “Just you
read Edgar, ahd you’ll find it simply can’t
be so. The man who did the job was the
Bishop of Canberra.”
“But he was in his diocese at the time.”
“Exactlv,” said Mike, and smiled deeply.
10-2-24.
THE SPORT OF PRINCES.
“Hitherto a few peers have distinguished them-
selves in cricket, but it is quite on the cards that
a noble personage, related to the Royal family, may
shortly appear in English first-class games.”
There was a roar of applause, while
massed bands played “God Save the King,”
as H.R.H. took strike to Largory. A gasp
of dismay followed, and loud cries of “Dis-
loyalist !” as his wicket was immediately
shattered. It was a no-ball, of course, but
all felt that the umpire would have shown
better taste if he had made his declaration
more quickly. That is to say, before Duckmes
was so unpatriotic as to appeal.
There were five no-balls in Largorv’s
over. However, he continued to bowl dis-
gracefully fast —threatening on at least two
occasions to repeat his previous gross error
—so the captain took him off.
Tosh, the under-hand lob bowler, was more
considerate of the feelings of loyal citizens,
and H.R.H. got him away splendidly for
four —an amazingly tricky stroke that began
as a cut to point and ended as a drive to
the on. Hobdrew missed a catch at mid-
on that seemed to go right through his
hands. It is more than certain that the
ball would have reached the fence even
if Jarland had not kicked it a couple of
times as he pursued it.
The last wicket fell at 211, 11.R.11. carry-
ing his bat for a superb 7. Sundries
amounted to 73, there being no fewer than
68 no-balls.
It is not considered likely that “the
Hammond of B-ck-ngh-m P-l-ce,” as he is
already known in the sporting press, will
be asked to do England the honor of repre-
senting her against the Australian visitors.
Popular as the selection would be, it would
be regarded as invidious for the champion,
as an Imperial figure, to represent the
mother country against one of her
Dominions.
The M.C.C. made the unselfish suggestion
that, as the Old Country held the Ashes,
“the Wizard of Y-rk H-use” (another
pseudonym coined by the ever-bright and
original sporting press) might be allowed
to play for the Australians. The proud
reply of the latter was that, priceless though
the services of the Royal run-getting machine
would be, the Aussies preferred to win, if
they could, on their merits.
H. M.
DISILLUSION.
Last year a- light hurst on me from above.
It purged me of all meanness by its
cleaning,
And Life took on for me a different mean-
ing—
I fell in love.
To-day I wish to goodness I was dead.
A ghastly weight is on my spirit leaning,
Ah, Life has taken on for me a different
meaning —
For I am wed.
WORLTA.
SEEING THE LIGHT.
Scene 1.
Miss Patsey Googles, the world-famous
star, imported for the musical triumph, “A
Chicken’s Best Friend is Her Nest Egg,”
stood on the deck of the incoming liner. A
herd of reporters hung on her utterances
and she was hitting on all six cylinders.
“Wonderful Australia ! Wonderful Austra-
lians !” she crooned. “How 1 love them ! So
great hearted ! So generous! So brave!
They are fitting inhabitants of this dear land
of everlasting sunshine ! How cultured ! How
quick to recognise genius! Tell my beloved
Australians that I am absolutely potty about
them.”
Scene 2.
The ship’s doctor, three A.B.’s and a couple
of stewardesses are trying to hold Miss
Googles down on the deck of an outgoing
liner. She has proved one of the nine theatri-
cal duds out of every ten that are imported
to Australia, and is being paid by her man-
agement to go home. There are no reporters
present. “Say to these Aussie apes from
me,” she shrieks, “that I’m gonna tell the
world as how I never struck such a bunch
of lop-eared, swivel-eyed rattlesnakes in ma
life! Australians! llonest-t’-Gawd what
they know wouldn’t give an army mule a
pain in ’is think-tank!”
Curtain.
D. McM.


Dewar's
THE
*• •*
V •/
cjhe Spirit
Supreme
f t f i
n-u.
FINE
he *m
near
y
■i
i-t*
S»S
AS EXCLUSIVELY SUPPLIED TO THE fig
6- ?b)6st£ni) Clubs
JohnDewaroSons L.
Distillers PERTH, (Scotland)* LONDON
PRODUCE OF SCOTLAND
CUSTO"!
wnuo
UNDER The SUPERVISION of the COHN ON WEAITN


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Pining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY PTRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
I
lIIWWIIWUIitoW
ft*
A
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
■iAe days aAeadf
GOOD HEALTH FOR YOUR KIDDIES MEANS
GOOD BLOOD—AND PLENTY OF IT!
Blood is needed to fight off disease germs, to
regularly remove the poisonous wastes that
continually develop in the system, to keep the
precious young body clean and fit. Don’t let
your children drift into ill-health because of
blood poverty and anaemic conditions, or fail
when healthy energy is required. Give them Kama
Vita Liver extract, the rapid blood-maker and body-
builder. Within a week Kama Vita will normalise
the blood, develop the appetite, and set them
sturdily on the road to health. Kama Vita is
prescribed by foremost Doctors and used by leading
hospitals. It is not unpleasant.
ws;
->r-: '
i
Ml
f
for free
literature.
j<^rrta
Wife
Liver Extract
On sale at all Chemists, 8/- per 4oz. jar,
or direct from us at 8/9, post free, if
not obtainable locally.
KARNA VITA COMPANY
226 a George Street, Sydney
j'o be healthu<-
J drink
it
ďf
the finest
tonic hod
drink
In 4 sizes
of ail Chemists
and Stores
BRACKEN
By BERNARD CRONIN
Illustrations i by Reason
CHAPTER XXVI.
Sentence.
SINCE the incident in the Botanic Gar-
dens, Jasper had met Harbord a num-
ber of times. Jasper studiously ignored
the man, although fretfully conscious
alwa.ys of the hostility he openly displayed.
Once only Jasper was moved to speech. It
had come to his ears that Harbord was
poisoning business circles against him, by
subtle insinuations against his honesty.
Jasper continually met Harbord’s version
of what had occurred between them over
he Crown and Rice real-estate deal. It
tu.iie at him at the most unexpected times
and places.
It was impossible to overlook the malice
of these occasions. Jasper, however, rigor-
ously held his temper in hand. He replied
casually, if at all. He refused his enemies
even the satisfaction of seeing him resent-
ful. Yet the sting rankled.
There came a day when he decided that
the persecution had gone far enough. His
ill health had sapped a great deal of his
powers of resistance, and there were times
when he dreaded a complete loss of self-
control. Harbord had to be stopped some-
how. Jasper decided that if necessary he
would even drag his own and Harbord’s
affairs through the public odium of the
courts.
He found no opportunity to confront
L'm until some weeks after Cora died.
Harbord’s fortunes had taken a turn for
the better. He was said to have done re-
markably well as a jobber on the Stock
Exchange—a kerbstone broker, as the phrase
had it. Of late he had a number of suc-
cessful shady mining
transactions to his
credit, of the kind
that desDoil the small
and ignorant specu-
lator. JasDer knew of
more than one in-
stance of this small-
beer of trickery on
Harbord’s part.
He found Harbord
fortunately alone in
the shabby back
room of a labor
agency, which he dig-
nified with the name
of office. Jasper came
straight to the point.
“Harbord, you’ve
been spreading a lot
o f damnable lies
about me around the
city. Now I’m here to
say only this: if you
open your mouth
once again to accuse
me of robbing you, I
shall know how to
deal with you in a
manner you’ll never
f. irget while you live.”
Harbord, a blotchy white, said spitefully:
“You mean to say it isn’t true?”
“Wait a moment,” Jasper said. He might,
from the lowness of his voice, have been
exhorting his own patience. He said then,
amazingly: ‘lt’s true, and it isn’t true.
In the sense you mean it, it isn’t true. I’m
sorry I ever dirtied myself But what’s
the use? You wouldn’t understand. And
so we’ll say it isn’t true, and leave it at
chat.”
“ ‘lt’s true and it isn’t true,’ ” Harbord
mimicked. He mistook Jasper’s quiet for
chagrin at having allowed a half confession
to escape him. “What sort
of an argument is that?”
He was shaking. Jasper said:
“Well, I’ve given you the only warn-
ing you will get.”
Harbord was unabashed. '‘Then, I’ll say
it to myself, and you can bet on that,” he
answered. “And now you can get out of my
office, Leith.”
“So, long as you say it to yourself,” said
Jasper, with a pale smile, “there’s a chance
for us both.”
He withdrew, stiffly erect. But his re-
straint was costing him dear. His ears
thundered; for a second of sick horror his
mind was a blank. It was an immense effort
to grasp and hold the voice that came
climbing out of the void.
“Eh? How....are you, Ronald?”
“Gosh!” Ronald said. “You might have
been walking in your sleep. You look
rotten. What’s the matter with you?”
“Nothing,” Jasper said. “I expect—l was
thinking pretty hard.” He shook his head
in an impatient effort to clear his sight.
“I’m a bit liverish.”
“I’ll tell you what; you Want to watch
out you don’t overdo things. You’re work-
ing too hard.”
Jasper grunted.
“As a matter of fact,” Ronald said,
smoothing his cheek with long, white fingers.
“I’m doing too much myself these days.
It’s the very devil, the way the world’s
speeding up. I don’t seem to find time for
anything.”
“Oh, you’ll get through all right,” Jasper
retorted, with a grin. Ronald’s posing
always amused him, and he was conscious
of having gained control of himself again.
“How’s the new portrait going?”
“Slowly, slowly. Look here, Jasper, can
you come round to the studio? North and
Parasole, and one or two of them, are
along there. W’e tried to get you on the
’phone. And then I came to see if I could
find you.”
“What’s wrong?”
“A ROGUE IN AMBER.”
Here you have, first, on the left, Antonio Carducci, the Rogue himself, as he was when the story opens at Mildura,
in Australia. Next to him is Betty Calcroft, an Australian girl whom you will soon love. Beside her is Carducci’s
daughter Marie, beautiful in her Mediterranean way, and there is much to be done by a nest of scoundrels with a
girl like Marie. At the end is Carducci’s companion in early .villainy, the French apache Francois Neigre, who
figures tremendously in the early and late life of the Rogue. These splendid studies have been made by Percy Lindsay;
no story ever produced in Australia has been illustrated with such vividness and insight.
“It’s no use,” Ronald burst out. His
look was suddenly dejected. “We’ve tried,
and it can’t be done. We can’t raise more
than a few pounds between the lot of us. I
tell you, something’s got to be done. Para-
sole’s almost suicidal. If you can’t help
us”
Jasper said grimly: “I see. All right.
Let’s get it over.”
As they climbed the narrow stairs a few
minutes later Ronald said apologetically:
“You see, we all understood we’d be out
of it before the second instalment was due.
You said”
“There was always the contingency. That
was understood, too. Never mind that
now. Well, Parasole”
Herbert Parasole’s greeting had been a
trifle hysterical. He reminded Jasper, some-
how, of a terrier. He had forgotten or had
neglected to shave himself, and his fringe
of hair had fallen forward over his little,
gleaming eyes. He was obviously ill at
ease. Ardrossan looked sullen. Allenby
North was walking up and down puffing
at his pipe. Jasper considered these evi-
dences of their departure from that secret
serenity which had always hitherto appeared
to set them apart from the normal with a
little flavor of malice. He told himself
that they were now beginning to understand
something of the stress beyond the charmed
circle of their unsophistication. They were
paying the penalty of transgressing the
laws of their own persuasion.
“The fact is, Leith,” Ardrossan said,
breaking in on Jasper’s abstraction, “we all
dug fairly deeply to raise the first instal-
ment. I’m mortgaged up to the neck, as
it is; so are Parasole and North. Thor’s
had a bad season in the country. Braid
can speak for himself.”
“I’ve hardly sold a thing for months
past,” Ronald said. He reddened slightly
as he met Jasper’s eye. “And then, you
know, or perhaps you didn’t know, I’m to
be married at the end of the year; and
Betty—or, I should say, her mother—in-
sisted that I tie up most of my capital;
kind of provision, you know. And so”
“And so I’m your last card, eh?” Jasper
suggested. But his manner was thoughtful,
rather than protesting. He said slowly:
“I’ll be quite frank. All I’ve got is in some
mining shares. At this moment I couldn’t
put my hand on a couple of hundred
pounds.”
Parasole said jerkily: “You mean we’ve
got to forfeit?”
“I never said so,” Jasper explained, with
a touch of contempt for the little man’s
abject despair. “I expect to clear rather
well out of Suedaks. They’re climbing.
There’s a rumor of five pounds to the cubic
yard, stream tin. If that’s confirmed
well, you can see for yourselves. And so
I’m not getting out until I have to.”
Ronald drew a breath of relief. “I say,
you don’t know what this means to us, old
man. Of course we’ll have to come to some
arrangement”
“That’s right,” Herbert Parasole agreed
eagerly. “It’s only fair, Leith, that we
share the profit.”
“Wouldn’t it be better to wait until it’s
there?” Jasper interrupted, dryly.
“You can’t frighten us,” Parasole pro-
claimed, with a cackle of nervous laughter.
“You’ll see to it, Leith, eh? That’s right;
we’ll leave it all to you. By George, though,
I was getting windy. It was such a devil
of a mess. You give a chap such a feeling
of confidence.”
“ 1 hat’s so,” Ardrossan exclaimed.
Jasper was uncomfortably aware that they
were looking at him with real affection.
There wore actually tears in Parasole’s little
doggy eyes.
He was feeling tired. He found he had
to concentrate to hold his thoughts together.
“I’ll do my best, Parasole. It’s just a
matter ol selling a block of Suedaks when
our instalment is due. There are some
weeks to go yet, in any case.”
He knew, as he went slowly up the street
to his office, an overpowering urge to see
Lois. Since Cora had died they had met
twice only. Jasper felt now that his illness
justified the sweeping away of all ordinary
concessions to Cora’s memory. He reflected,
with beating pulses, that he had never ex-
changed a single word of love with Lois.
Loving her so-greatly that thought of her
was an actual anguish, he had not once
affronted the glory of that hurt by allow-
ing it to become articulate. Only his mind
had cried out against the bitterness of iso-
lation, while every fibre of him quivered to
make a reckless avowal. Yet without passion
and without desire; thinking how sweetly
acceptable her soul’s charity, how loyal the
clean, straight spirit of her; drawing near
to contemplation of her as one might
approach an altar of God; submissively, full
of the weariness of self.
The sharp dark beauty of her face glowed
suddenly within his thought. She was smil-
ing; her head a little on one side, and her
eyes and lips warming to laughter. He could
even mark the delicate play of the pulse
at her throat and the blue vein at her
temple. The smoke of her hair crept like
an incense.
Jasper said aloud, standing at the centre
of his room: “My
dear, my dear all
these wasted years
my God, what a
blind fool I’ve been!”
Then, holding her
photograph with
trembling fingers: “I
wonder if you ever
remember how you
laved my hurt when
I fought Tod? Out
there in Joe’s boiler-
house, sitting, on a
box. Even then I
must have loved you,
I think. Laving my
hurt how many times
since! Always some
other’s hurt; forget-
ting your own!”
A thought came as
he finished his careful
dressing. He took
from his desk the
little brown notebook,
and turned the pages
rapidly, frowning in
mental calculation.
The result appeared
to astonish him. He
said slowly: “I shall
be rich. If things go as they ought, I shall
be rich.”
But there was no elation in his voice.
His mind somehow refused to yield its flat-
ness. He was conscious, as he turned
away, of a sense of desolation.
He knew no prepared oratory, but only
an instantaneous welling up of words from
his heart. Lois thought how like he was,
in his simple directness, to the boy Jasper
who had taken the mending of Ann Martin’s
happiness into his hands, without question.
(Continued on page 50.)


11
I
mam
• V
1
1
m
1
\
m
~i ■
■ -
Bfe.
->•••••
MISS F. SHILLING,
A charming Rexona Girl, writes:— ‘
motto is Rexona Soap for all time.”
MISS MEL GREENLEES,
A beautiful Rexona Girl, who was chosen as
Coogee’s Surf Queen, writes: ‘‘l find Rexona
Soap is the most beneficial soap for use after
swimming or surfing. It refreshes the skin and
has a cool, soothing effect after sun-baking. It
also removes the salty feeling from the hair.”
fl
' Cooling ~
'•Soothing
Healing
Ointment
oartf ,es Absolutely'
* £ Heals Reliable
/
• saw
A Reliable Healer for all Eruptions
and Irritations of the Skin. Eczema, Sores. Gits
Bums Bruises, Sores, Sciatica. Piles. Stings of Insects
and all kinds of Inflammation
7 REXONA DEPT SHELDON DRUG CP L TD SYDNEY.'
THE TRIANGULAR BOX
7he Rapid
ffealer
Jai&j lh& Burn Out
of Sunburn f
o
u
>OO
.s
y
Cr
•*»i
n
To all lovers of outdoor sports, a dip in the roaring breakers on a summer’s day is indeed romance.
Next day the sunburnt, blistered hands and scarlet face are painful realities. Why suffer such
distress and disfigurement from sunburn when it can easily be avoided by always using Rexona
Soap when you have your shower, and then applying a little Rexona Ointment, the cooling,
soothing and healing balm?
If you want to make doubly sure of avoiding sunburn, apply the Rexona Ointment to the
exposed parts before going into the surf. This prevents both the action
of the salt water and the sun on the most delicate skin.
If this is done, there will be no after-effects from exposure to the sun,
no regrets after a happy day, for the skin, soothed by the wonderful
influence of Rexona, the Rapid Healer, will quickly regain its normal
temperature and comfortable coolness.
You will find Rexona Skin and Facial
Soap ideal as a shampoo for the hair
after your dip.
Rexona Soap and Rexona, the Rapid
Healer, in its dainty pot, should stand
on the toilet-table of all who indulge in
outdoor sports.
I
HB|g
-
'
,
: :
5
5S ; *: . .
MISS PHYLLIS BITTON,
A lovely Rexona Girl, and
winner of the “Sirens of the
Surf” Competition in Fre-
mantle, W.A., writes:—"Being
a long-distance swimmer and
a user of Rexona Soap, I find
Rexona Soap excellent after
taking part in a race, for
washing the salt water out of
my hair.”
.
im
¥ 7 "»■
/
mm
MISS V. FREED,
A dainty Rexona Girl",
writes: —“I can recommend
Rexona Soap as being
truly wonderful for the
skin and hair.”
'k
• L
%
m.
ijilii,
'ili,
S#
"Kk
B
m
'ii
=vlj
hi
K'S®?.
an
A\OV
i
//_iw
aO*
///-
V"-
////
/2^
SSO
'"77^
VVil
///»
m
it
111
df
mm
I
U\
■
si
:
L 1
i ffe-
-1 MM
m
msm
mm
■
■
mid
M ■
* '
fqirxrsQ
pun r
dr?oC>
Tmoxcrx


Hanking. Public Companies, etc,
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £8.369.965
Aggregate Assets at 30th June,’*l92B!! £18’623,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. R. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E.;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER: C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 186 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, ■with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 616,210
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,732,525
DP A 0,1 Australia, New
VIAAC 1 k> Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
and Ireland, and other places.
GRANTS
Great Britain
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all otliei; usual Banking business.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should x’ead the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed
d
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cua.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office!: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
Xtbe Dominion.
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion' is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
Shipping, etc.
You promised yourself
a Holiday
“Wind in the palms and the murmur
of surf on the reef; light brown faces
smiling kindly welcome; everywhere
blossoms and fragrance, light, color
and soothing sounds, a feeling of
infinite remoteness,leisure and calm/’
>
r pHE favorite Winter
Excursions to the
Pacific Islands begin in
May. They offer oppor-
tunities for an ocean holi-
day on palatial liners at
less than the cost of a
city vacation. Auckland
and Suva are visited en
route to sunny Hawaii
and Honolulu, its delight-
ful capital.
Special Honolulu Excursions
£75 First and £55 Second (return)
Niagara leaves Sydney May 30
Makura ~ „ June 27
Aorangi „ ~ July 25
Alternative Excursions to Tahiti
£55 First and £4O Second (return)
Tahiti leaves Sydney May 16
Maunganui ~ June 13
Tahiti „ „ July 11
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne, Cl.
GAN ADI A N—AUSTRALASIAN
STEAMSHIP PASSAGES
Arranged by All Steamship Lines.
Choice of Any Route. Without Extra Charge.
From AUSTRALIA to
ENGLAND
FRANCE
ITALY
GERMANY
AMERICA
CANADA
MEXICO
AFRICA
JAPAN
EGYPT
INDIA
CHINA
Also attractive tours to Honolulu, Java, Colombo, Fiji,
BUSINESS TRIPS. PLEASURE CRUISES.
AUSTRALIA TO
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
VISIT JAVA (“The Garden of the East’’)
Monthly sailings maintained by the popu-
lar steamers “MARELLA” and “MALA-
BAR” from Melbourne, Sydney and
Brisbane, via Queensland Ports. Torres
Strait, Darwin, etc.
1C
m.
a ■
m
For Reservations aid Information apply
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. And all Branch Offices.
SOUTH SEAS CALLING!
SPEND YOUR NEXT HOLIDAY
in
HAWAII
HAWAII
HAWAII
Here is Nature’s grandest entertainment —the
islands of perpetual sunshine—blessed with a
climate which is as ideal as it is bracing.
Here is a semi-Oriental setting where almost
every nation on the earth seems to be repre-
sented, life is never humdrum —is exhilarating
—thrilling—full of incident. Inter-Island
Cruises. Visit Kilauea Volcano.
Getting there is easy—convenient and relatively
cheap. Steamer Fares: From £75 first-class
return, and £55 second-class, with hotel
accommodation at from 12/- to £3 per day,
with meals —give an indication of really what
a cheap and yet wonderful holiday can be
spent in this “Paradise of the Pacific.”
Fullest particulars from all Steamship Agents
or from this office direct.
HAWAII TOURIST BUREAU,
Dept. 26, Box 162788, G.P.0., Sydney
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Nestor ....
+Ceramic . . .
tDemosthenes
*Ulysses .. .
fThemistocles
Runic ....
Ascanius . .
15,000 tons, March 15.
18.500 „ March 26.
11.500 ~ April 12.
15,000 „ May 10.
11,500 ~ June 10.
12 500 „ July 9.
10,000 „ July 22.
* First class only, tFirst and Third class.
t“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Joint
Agents
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1813.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND .
RESERVE LIABILITY
fw &
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20,900,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Falmer, Esq. ; W. E. H. Southerden, Esq. General Manager: Alfred Charles Davidson.
Il<*ad Office—George Street. Sydney London Office—29 Tlireadneedle Street. E.C. 2
536 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS
(Transhipping for outports).
Splendid Cheap Service
Via Suez Canal
FAST OIL BURNERS
Excellent Menu. Late Dinner.
Fares to London from £3B.
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For particulars apply
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Box 513 AA, 5 O’Connell St., Sydney.
’Phone: BG7OI
BRISBANE,via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/6/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHARMS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart ParkerLiM
Magnlfloent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
IS EAGERLY
ABSORBING
Wap
NEWS PICTORIAL
• Published daily in a handy,
convenient size.
ALL THE NEWS!
ALL THE PICTURES!
The State’s First Morning
Pictorial
LARGELY INCREASED SALES.
HEAD OFFICE: REGISTER NEWS-
PAPERS, LIMITED, Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative: Eric K. Birks,
Sydney. Tel. X 5187.
Melbourne Representative: G. N.
Bednall, “Argus” Building, Mel-
bourne. Tel. F 4502.


This Razor will
last a Lifetime
Kropp Razors are hand-forged from solid bars of special steel by the world's
most expert cutlers. They take a finer, keener edge than ordinary cast steel
or machine-stamped razors.
KROPP
never
requires
grinding
It makes shaving a pleasure. Your face will be smoother, cleaner and more
comfortable when you use one of these wonderful razors.
ALL-BRITISH
f) ' A';
Sheffield made and world famous. Individually tested, and fully guaranteed.
From the usual dealers. Black Ivory or Xylonite handles.
Wholesale only: OSBORNE GARRETT & CO., LTD., London, England
12
1
lO
4-
ELGIN the very name inspires confi-
dence. Long years of experience in watch
manufacture, the skill of craftsmen
trained in the Elgin factories, all go to
make the keynote of Elgin fame
reliability.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS
(£>lgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELEGANCE AND EFFICIENCY
I flip cjradle Mark
in 'the Watch Cape
106
For backward children.
Food
&J7T
Bee. Tbadb MiBt.
There is nothing better
than Benger’s Food for
backward children. A cup-
ful between meals, and at
bed-time, provides just
what is wanted.
Send jor Bengefs Booklet , post fret ,
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.,
MO, George Street, SYDNEY.
:*x*&x*X'X*x*x^>>>>x%*X , XrXttx»x»x*NX
*
tk" VENUS'
lans tk World
lhe first rough suggestion— the skilful
and accurate working out, the sharp
detailed drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
constructive effort, call for the use of VENUS
PENCILS Whether it be for the building of a
battle-ship or the design, of a simple household
article, the pencil is the first requirement: the
VENUS the first pencil.
ďfd
17 Blacklead Degrees bb-9H sd. each ■ 4/9 per dozen, Super Copying (Medium & Hard) 6d,
each - 5/9 per dozen. Venus Copying (Medium & Hard) 4d» each - 3/9 per dozen*
Pen and Picture
Shadow Shows
If all pictures
were as good as
“Love at Mid-
night” (First
Nat.), the corps
of learned
scribes who con-
duct this column
would wake up
on show mornings as full of joyful ex-
pectations as an ice-cream vendor in a heat-
wave. The story is absorbingly interesting
and the production brilliant. Captain Corlaix
(Paul Lukas), commander of a French
cruiser, returns from sinking a German war-
ship. After receiving public thanks lie
rushes home to find that his wife (beautiful
Billie Dove) has not warmed the matrimonial
sheets during the whole period of his cruise,
which began on the first day of war’s declara-
tion. She fails to explain her absence and
they separate. Meanwhile .a dead officer lias
been found in the captain’s cabin. The captain
is accused of the murder, there is an admi-
rably handled court-martial, and the presi-
dent is about to order an execution when
tlic wife demands to be put in the witness
box or its Gallic equivalent. The story
Hashes back to the night of the cruiser’s de-
parture. The captain is giving a dance, to
which his wife is invited. The Kaiser has
the bad taste to upset both the function and
the peace of Europe. The captain, engrossed
with his secret knowledge that war has
been declared, neglects his wife; she is
peeved, and, instead of going on shore, slips
into the cabin of a lieutenant —an earlier
lover —and gets carried into action. Another
officer learns of her presence, goes to betray
her to the captain and is shot by the limi-
tenant, who is subsequently conveniently
wiped off the slate by an enemy projectile.
The Court learns with delight that the gallant
commander is innocent of his subordinate’s
death, and with that tact which distinguishes
all members of stage Courts files out and
leaves the coast clear for husband and wife.
The complicated case against the man' and
the equally complicated case for him are
built up with great skill; if this paper were
given to hyperbole, it might speak of the
producers, whoever they are, as film Con-
rads.
“The Forbidden Woman” (r.D.C.) con-
cerns the daughter of a Riff chieftain, who
disguises herself so well as a mysterious
white woman as to deceive a French com-
mander into marrying her. She goes to
Paris, spies on a military conference and
JETTA GOUDAL.
transmits the
plans to father.
On the way to
Paris, how-
ever, she meets
a violin vir-
tuoso. He fid-
dles outside her
cabin ; she falls
in love with
“The Fanlight
Sonata,” then
with him and
they swear
eternal devo-
tion. However,
he turns out
to be hubby’s
brother. Exer-
cising his mili-
tary power,
the husband
sends him sol-
dier i n g in
Morocco. There
the spy-wife,
believing the
virtuoso has
ceased to love
perfuses a cigarette paper marked with his
initials to send news of French reinforce-
ments to her father. Reinforcements are
ambushed, there is bloody murder, the cigar-
ette paper is found and an innocent virtuoso
is sentenced to be shot at daylight. Up-to-
date all is melodrama, though dashed good
melodrama. Then the rtory suddenly lifts
itself into higher realms (no doubt to the
detriment of the box office). Virtuoso is
summoned forth, ostensibly to his execution.
Instead, he finds himself in brother’s office.
Brother takes him to window. The firing-
party is lined up ready; a volley rings forth
and a victim falls. It is the forbidden
woman, who has confessed her wickedness.
The fine acting of Jetta Goudal makes the
tragedy poignant. She is well supported
by Victor Varconi and Joseph Schildkraut
as the brothers.
“South Sea Love” (F.P.0.) is bilge of
the very first water. The plot concerns
the endeavors of the heroine. Charlotte, to
prove to her two lovers, one vicious and the
other dunderheaded, that she has a right to
the first letter of her name as well as
the others. A clumsier production never
went globe-trotting. One’s hopes first sag
when one sees that the villain is wearing
a straw hat. Villains in a certain type
of Hollywood drama always wear straw hats
just as villains in Javanese dramas have
hair growing out of their noses. Such
things are supposed to indicate innate de-
pravity. One’s hopes sag still further when
the straw-hatted person intercepts a tele-
gram for Charlotte from her sweetheart and
fakes a reply. Later she goes to the South
Seas, where the hero is searching for pearls
—with more success than he deserves —and
there is much perspiration, except on the
part of Charlotte, who remains miraculously
dry, though all around are sweating buckets.
The rest of the proceedings are as brainless
as .an automatic traffic signal, but not as
quick in action. Charlotte is done by Patsy
Ruth Miller and very well done, consider-
ing.
“This Marriage Business” (F. 8.0.) is one
of the. first of the British Dominion Films,
on which a large requisition has been made by
Hoyt’s. It is an innocuous yarn, though well
told in the main. One Mr. Shakspeare used
it first or cribbed it from somebody else
when he wrote “The Taming of the Shrew.”
A refreshing feature is that the social status
of everybody is firmly fixed before the cur-
tain ascends. In the average American film
somebody or other is always “getting on.’’
Here, however, the gentlemen are gentlemen,
the butlers contentedly buttle and the ladies
are to the limousine born. This induces in
the breast of a mere salaried critic a feeling
of repose. In some ways “This Marriage
Business” inspires the hope that the break-
away from Hollywood will develop into a
landslide. Owen Nares, while not specially
original, is sound and dignified and physically
is as beautiful as a flapper’s dream. Estelle
Brody is a clever, vivacious, eager little,
actress. She does not have to depend on her
looks, which is, perhaps, just as well.
“Fandango” (Educational Pictures) is
about as educational as a mad dog with a
tin attached to its tail. It is all slapstick,
and those who like slapstick will like “Fan-
dango.” Lupino Lane is the star. He is
held by the trade to be a great comedian.
He can sit down on a chair that isn’t there
and does it—often. He can also fall over his
own feet —and docs that often. He can
likewise flick a cigar out of a person’s mouth
with a stockwhip and replace it—with the
nhotograplier’s assistance. If this consti-
tutes comedianship, Lupino is the greatest
ever.
The Inky Way
“Billy” Conley, general manager of the
S. M. Herald, is seriously ill, and has been
for the past month. The Fairfax family
might well pray for his recovery. Conley
brought to the control of the Herald what
was most lacking—imagination—and in a
generation of change he has not only main-
tained the old paper’s prestige, but greatly
added to it. Ills services have been appre-
ciated, too; some years ago the Fairfaxes
not only admitted him to the family board-
room, but handsomely provided him With
shares.
“Hamer”: If present plans materialise,
the Worker and the World will be printed
in a building to go up on property
the A.W.U. owns in Pitt-street, Syd-
ney, near Campbell-street. Macdonell House,
which is to be sold, is estimated to be worth
something like £200,000; every room in it
being constantly let, the rent-roll is substan-
tial. The World was due to appear, first
of all, in 1914, but when the war came
machinery which had been shipped at San
Francisco in a German freighter went miss-
ing ; and the war-time paper shortage led to
further postponements. Although not put
to their original use, the machines in the
basement of Macdonell House have not been
allowed to rust.
“F.T.K.”: How is this for a Bulletin
itinerary? A Greek friend, resident in Syd-
ney for many years, left nine months ago on
a visit to his home island and neighboring
parts, extracting a jiledge from me before-
hand that I would keep him supplied with
the paper issued from 214 George-street
North. Samos is his headquarters, and from
there The Bulletin is re-addressed to him.
It has chased, and —unique for the Levant —
always found him in Athens, Corinth,
Cyprus, Constantinople, Bucharest, Smyrna,
Alexandretta, Jerusalem, Alexandria, Port
Said and Port Sudan. His last letter in-
formed me that he had just finished reading
it in Abyssinia.
“Yelu”: Thanks to the employment pro-
vided by the Commonwealth railways, Port
Augusta (S.A.) is kept fairly busy, but it
has not quite achieved the destiny foretold
for it nearly 50 years ago when it had a
newspaper, the Dispatch, issued three times
a week. The proprietor of the Dispatch
in those days was a convivial Scot. Now
and then his conviviality led to his being
run in, and on these occasions he considered
it a point of honor to have the fact re-
corded in his paper. The office followed
the old style of putting defendants’ names
in italics, and the disclosure was thus made
all the more noticeable. In later years J.
W. Kirwan, now president of the Westralian
Leg. Council, and Hal Colebatch. Westra-
lian Senator-elect, worked on the Dispatch.
“Homfrey Beale”: The publication as a
Bulletin serial of Bernard Cronin’s
“Bracken” has resulted in a greatly-increased
demand for other Cronin novels, especially
among country people, who grasp more
quickly at good Australian yarns than the
film-doped population of the cities. Country
booksellers have been quick to notice the
trend, and are making effective displays of
“Salvage,” “Bluff Stakes” and “Timber
Wolves.” A second gratifying result is that
the works of other Australian writers are
being pushed to the front.
Spare Sub.”: The Literary Supplement
of London Times has this to say of Marcus
Clarke in a review of Nettie Palmer’s an-
thology of Australian short stories:—•
.. H * n , cv l r t , roubled to understand the bush, hated
the little he knew of it, and probably wrought more
harm to Australian literature than any other man
on its roll.
Drastic, perhaps, but not too much so to
the many Australians who have found that
Clarke s flowers without perfume and birds
without song introduction to Gordon’s poems
sums up Australia for thousands of overseas
f °r ui ven in tbesQ a U c S'-d days of universal
enlightenment.
WARNING.
(For —and to — The Hulmjtin.]
Long days has sickness bound me
In manacles of pain;
With iron hands around me
Declared her suzerain.
And editors who erstwhile
Had frowned, have smiled instead;
And with a gladsome chuckle
Opined: “He must be dead.”
But I have euchred Charon,
And, editors of mine,
Beware of my bombardment
In 1929.
N.S.W.
HUMFR EY BEALE.


.-..VvS
r
i
w
<*<r,
F
ƒd
GOOD hat takes
to itself the indi-
viduality of its
wearer, it even
reflects his moods.
It is regarded as a friend,
and as most men are
careful of the friends they
choose —they choose a
Hat that suits uourher
ersonau
Obtainable at all the
leading Mercers
A PRODUCT OF UNITED FELT HATS PTY.
LTD -
MlO


o
a
be*
PK.ISTC®
w
*
Ensure efficient running by fitting B.E.S.
SPARK PLUGS. A type for every car, truck,
tractor, cycle, aeroplane and marine engine.
Fully guaranteed. All garages. Price 4/6.
Manufactured by
Australian Spark Plugs Pty., Ltd.
562 Spencer Street, Melbourne, C.l.
’Phones: F 4947, F 5961.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA'S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY'S “SPECIAL” Whisky
MELLOWED BY AGE ALONE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney.
[2
W. W. GREENER
GUNS
ď
ARE SURE KILLERS
Wholesale Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY, LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE, Cl.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The V.A.T.C. had vile weather for the
opening day of its Autumn meeting. Un-
pleasantly humid in the early part of the
day, it came on to rain just before the
second race and kept on raining till after
the Oakleigh Plate had been run. For that
rich handicap the Sydney filly Figure was
favorite of the field of 19. Her price touched
5 to 2, but lengthened to fours with the
backing of St. Ardent, Harry Gavin (both
7 to 1), Greener and Day Dreamer (10
to 1) and Greenline (twelves).
Parsee, Abbott’s Lad. Margaux, Field
Artillery and others were so obstreperous
at the barrier that Rupert Greene had the
worst job of his career getting them away.
St. Ardent, Day Dreamer, Greener, Harry
Gavin, Figure, Little Redfern and Gilt
Edge all began briskly, and St. Ardent was
well clear of Day Dreamer three furlongs
from home. But he began to hang out and
Day Dreamer dashed past him. Figure
then tackled the leader, but could not get
on terms, and Day Dreamer was a length
and a half to the good when the post was
reached, St. Ardent, who tired badly, being
about the same distance behind Figure.
Little Redfern, who ran a surprisingly good
race, w r as fourth, and Greenline did well to
finish seventh. Day Dreamer is a six-year-
old bay mare with a pedigree more like a
stayer’s than a sprinter; she is by Pendil
out of an Amherst mare. Joe Pengilly
trains her for H. F. Creswick, and a good
many people backed her on her second to
Figure at Williamstown, especially as
Daniels had the mount. The time, I min.
9|sec., was, of course, slow. Day Dreamer
is not in the Newmarket.
■ T. M. Burke’s Seremond gelding Mondiaga,
who had taken the Wyndham Handicap at
Williamstown so easily, and had on several
occasions shown to advantage in the mud.
was always favorite for the Bond Cup, 12
furlongs, threes being the closing price;
but there was good money for others —the
imported horse Burnewang (4 to 1), King
Mart, Pitoota and Impartial (6 to 1), and
Finsbury (7 to 1). Track and weather
were at their worst when the race was run,
but Mondiaga was always going easily in
third or fourth place, Finsbury and Pitoota
being in the lead for the greater part of the
journey. Once in the straight, Mondiaga
came away, and he won very easily from
Finsbury, Impartial and Qctember, who
looks like paying his way in Melbourne. It
was good form, and with 7st. 111 b. in the
Australian Cup Mondiaga looks like start-
ing at a short price.
Sol Green decided not to risk Gothic in
the mud, and only four horses breasted the
barrier for the St. George’s Stakes. Last
year’s winner, Black Duchess, who had done
well since her arrival in Melbourne, went out
at 7 to 4, Sailing Horne at twos. The Banker
at 5 to 2, and Maple (not the mare she was
in the spring) at tens. Jumping away
smartly, Black Duchess led all the way.
Though The Banker looked dangerous near
the home turn and Sailing Home made a
run at her in the straight, the Magpie mare
won very comfortably from old Sailing Home
and Maple. Some Sydney men refused to back
her on the principle that Magpies are no
good in the mud, but the going did not bother
Magpie’s daughter.
There was a boilovcr in the Federal Stakes,
for which Metaphor, a Great Star youngster
in Frank Godby’s stable, was backed down to
1) to 4; victory went to a Claro filly. Hauteur
(25 to 1), two other outsiders in Hard
Steel (25 to 1) and Spanish Galleon (14 to
1) being second and third. The result of
the last race, the Salisbury Welter, was far
more pleasant to backers; Manacre (7 to 1)
hung on well enough to win from Bethaunga
ANOTHER “UMPIRING INCIDENT.”
D AD: “Orright. Orright! Don’t get excited. Give a bloke time
to think.”
(5 to 1) and Martimah (10 to 1). He has
brjen a long time returning to the form he
showed as a youngster.
* * * *
Fancies for Saturday :
St. Clair Trial: Silent Quest.
Woodcliff Handicap: Burnewang; next,
Pitoota.
Futurity Stakes: Gothic; next Mollison.
Hawksburn Handicap: Fission; next,
Thracian Belle.
* * * *
Bookmakers found the Warwick Farm
meeting very pleasurable and profitable. In
the second race, a division of the Maiden
Handicap, they saw a 20-to-l chance in
Gurrana romp home from the unlucky Nina
Blankney (7 to 1) ; and the third race, the
Farm Stakes, also went to one of the 20-to-l
division, Lady Leucops. Followed a dead-
heat between Pentheus (7 to 4) and Green
Moth (5 to 1) in the flutter for two-year-
olds- then all the fancied horses for the
Glenfield Handicap were defeated by Poi-
tiers, a chestnut gelding by Poitrel-Contone
racing in the Moses colors, with which Poitrel
was associated. Poitiers’s price in the ring
was 33 to 1, offered; on the 10s. machine,
which paid three divs., it was 44 2-5 to 1
£22 14s. for 10s. Gurrana tickets were
worth £l2 9s. 6<j. for 10s.
Then a second favorite scored in the
February Handicap—Lady Clara (9 to 4),
daughter of two good horses in their day,
Kennaquhair and Lady Wallace. She had
run badly at Rosehill a fortnight before, but
her improvement was evidently expected by
a shrewd party. Spaghetti (6 to 1) made
nearly all the running and finished a credit-
able second; Gleam Boy, who had beaten
Lady Clara pointless at Rosehill, was third.
Another offspring of the famous Sydney
Cup winner, Lord Kennaquhair (8 to 1),
made a bold attempt to win the Mm to
Handicap, but was not quite slick enough
at the distance —a mile —for Garrula (2 to
1). who is back to his best form. The pan-
finished lengths clear of the others, who were
headed by little Flicker (8 to 1). Lord
Kennaquhair is a good cut of a horse, and
may possibly win the Sydney Cup luinselt.
Times were' below the average during the
dav, the going being rather soft.
* * * *
For Rosehill on Saturday :
Dundas Handicap; Quince or Lord Romeo;
next, Bravado. „ „ , .
February Handicap: Lord Kennaquhair;
next. Spaghetti.
Granville Stakes: Trahere; next, Comedy
Queen.
Flying Welter: Quince or Garrula; next,
Monoplane.
Lady do Ratlin,
better remembered
as Mrs. Langtry,
who died at Monte
Carlo the other
day, was the “Mr.
Jersey” who owned
that great Austra-
lian stayer Mer-
man. Her three
biggest coups with
the Grand Flaneur
prad were the 1897
Cesarewitcli. tli e
Goodwood Cup of
1899, and the Ascot
Gold Cup of 1900.
The “Jersey Lily”
was a good punter,
and it is recorded
that she collected
a parcel on all
three wins, getting
100 to 7 for the
first and last of
these big betting
events, and backing
her fancy down to
0 to 5 on for the
second.
* *
“Stengeh”: That
one can have too
much of a good
thing is the experi-
ence of Malaya,
which is realising
that, though it is
keen on racing, the
clubs cannot sup-
ply enough meet-
ings to keep the
too-numerous race-
horses in the coun-
tr y employed—
there are 600 at
time of writing.
Others are coming
in, and it is now
proposed to restrict
the registration of
prads for some
time. This will
affect Australian
breeders, who send
a considerable
number of blood horses to the Straits. At a
two-days’ meeting of the Perak (F.M.S.)
Turf Cluh recently 16 of the 18 events were
won by Walers.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Visiting American boxers continue to take
toll of their opponents. At Sydney Stadium
on Saturday night Jack Sparr gained his
second victory by outpointing Englishman
Harry Mason. The Yankee was the attacker
throughout, Mason contenting himself with
blocking most of the time, though he went
in for an occasional short burst of fight-
ing. His agreement under a £lOO penalty
not to exceed lOst. 71b. (he scaled lOst. 6Jib.)
evidently took a lot of the tuck out of him.
Sparr weighed lOst. 341 b.
* * * *
Saturday night’s engagement between
Norman Gillespie (9st. 411 b.) and Jimmy
Kelso (9st. 941 b.) at Melbourne Stadium
looked suck a good thing for the local lad
on paper jthat only the customary regulars
were on hand. For a change, they were
treated to a rousing little scrap while it
lasted. Kelso fought like a tiger, but he is
open to a right to the chin, and Gillespie sup-
plied this hard and often. The end came
in the fifth, Gillespie landing a terrific right
uppercut after backing Kelso to the ropes.
The Ins and Outs
Heavy rain caused the postponement of
the return match between England and
N.S.W. to late on Saturday afternoon. Even
then, the 15,000 optimists who turned up
were fortunate to sec any cricket, for, owing
to utterly inexcusable circumstances, the
Englishmen, save the captain and two others,
were not on the ground, but were scattered
all over Sydney. They had to be collected
by motor and telephone, and the side that
took the field considerably after the agreed-
on starting time included several who were
not originally selected for the match.
Though wicket and outfield were soddeu,
the former was soft and was cutting through,
presenting no terrors for experienced bats-
men. It was on just such a pitch that Harry
Graham made 105 in the Test on the same
ground against Stoddart’s 1N94-95 side, when
Richardson, Lockwood, Briggs, Peel and
lirockwell were among the bowlers; but
there was no wicket covering in those days
and Australian batsmen had not forgotten
liow to make runs on such a wicket. N.S.W.,
sent in by Chapman, made a feeble showing,
Fairfax with a stolid 40 being the only
man to defy the by no means formidable
bowling. Jackson went to Tate for 5, and
Andrews to White for 2. Ivippax got to-
gether 17 by some means or other, and
Bradman was even less convincing for 15.
Outside Fairfax, the only men who went tor
the bowling were Marks (17) and McCabe
(11).
With the wicket in much the same condi-
tion on Monday the innings closed for 128,
■White taking 5 for 48. The Englishmen
lost Ley land (5) and liobbs (39) for half
the N.S.W. score; Fairfax got both wickets
for 20.
* * * *
“IV. G. Snort”: The opinion expressed in
The Bulletin a couple of months ago that
the English team had been over-rated by the
local critics is not only being borne out by
facts, but is beginning to be acknowledged
by.the British press. Meeting Australia
in what is probably the worst bowling period
Australian cricket has known, they have
practically been carried through the Tests
by one man, Hammond. With at least three
good bowlers, they have done nothing miracu-
lous in the way of dismissing the opposition
since the Brisbane Test. They are undoubt-
edly a stronger side, taken in all, than any-
thing they have met in Australia, but only
by a slight margin. London Athletic
News puts it that Australia is inferior only
in that she lacks bowlers who can exploit
the new ball. Without going so far, the
writer agrees with the contention that if
Australia could have produced a bowler of
McDonald’s calibre, she would have won
three matches out of five.
* * >K *
“Hotliam”: That flinty-hearted oligarchy,
the Sydney Cricket Ground Board of
Trustees, continues on its Herod-like course
of persecuting the innocents. Not content
with turning Kelleway’s. infant from the
door when its parent desired to take it in-
side while he practised, it has hurled out
a motion by one of its members to permit,
sons or brothers of members, provided they
are under 10 years of age, to be admitted on
presentation of the ladies’ tickets now issued
with the member’s badge. The majority of
the trustees are wise in their generation,
having grasped the fact, overlooked by the
mover of the lost motion, that the determina-
tion of whether a small boy or girl is over
or under a fixed age is a job beyond the
capacity of mere mortals. Ask any Sydney
tram conductor.
* * * *
“W. G. Snort”: The reporting of Blackie
by unfpire Hele because of a remark
made by the Victorian bowler in the Adel-
aide Test, when an appeal for l.b.w. was dis-
allowed, is an unusual happening, though
such action is enjoined on umpires in the.
Marylebone C. C. instructions to the craft.
But in mere justice the practice should be
carried to its logical conclusion. Nothing
happens if a bowler stands still and turns
up his eyes till nothing can be seen but the
whites, or when a batsman given out against
his own opinion lifts both arms to the skies
in a silent appeal to the justice of the gods.
Everyone knows the l.b.w. victim who shakes
his head with a pitying smile to the specta-
tors in the pavilion, and taps his bat signi-
ficantly as he returns to the dressing-room.
Blackie should have imitated a famous inter-
national bowler who once in Brisbane
tore his cap from his head and jumped
on it in his tribulation. Silence is golden
on these occasions, but there is no rule
against pantomime.
(Continued on page 37.)
PROTEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The game,” he said, “it mightn't be so crook
If these here flamin’ stipes were only
taught
Their jobs; they talk as if they knew the
book
Of words from end to end, but when
they’re brought
Up against any simple sort of jpb
That ten-year-olds at school could work
out right,
You watch and see if they don't make a blob
Of it and tell you ruddy black is white.
For all the good they’re doin’, to my mind.
They might as well be deaf and dumb and
blind.
“Gawd, no!” he said. “They haven’t rubbed
me out;
I’m not the sort of mug to pull a moke,
When half a tub of water brings about
The same result anch never queers a bloke.
I’d put in for a pension and retire,
Knowin’ that I was gettin’ past the game,
If they should even find enough to inquire
Into my little jokes; but, all the same,
They got me goosey, lad, and made me sore
With what they did last month about Lenore.
“The mare,” he said, “I’d just got ripe to
pluck.
And I’d been savin’ her for quite a while,
Until I saw a chance to crowd me luck
At Wirrawonga in a welter mile,
And went to make a killin’. Well, she
flopped,
Ran second to a flamin’ country prad
.Called Romalong, that nothing could have
stopped
That day; and me—why, I was in too bad
To let it stay like that, so, actin’ hot,
I up and lodged a protest pn the spot.
“It worked,” he said; “of course, I had
to lay
From twos to fives on this here Roma-
long,
But soon I’d covered all I had to pay
And more. And then I thought, ’Aw,
struth, it’s wrong
To leave good money lyin’ loose like this,
Seein’ I don’t know what the protest’s for.’
And so I emptied out, too good to miss;
And then—by Gawd, they give it to
Lenore!
‘Protest upheld!’ And then (who wouldn’t
squeal?)
They laughed, lad, when —I wanted to
appeal!”
QUEENSLAND.
HASEN.


fď
fj
m
l
m
m
jr",
t
tm
BRITISH
No. 99 SET. Contains the essentials for a
perfect “Valet” shave the razor,
strop and three blades in leather-
ette-covered case
3 /■
Managing Agents for Australia’—
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
New Zealand Agents:
VAN STAVEREN BROS., Ltd., Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch.
“Slips along smoothly, doesn’t she?”
“Oh, you mean the car.... 1 was looking
at the poster
“That slips along smoothly, too!”
“You use a Valet yourself?”
“Never used any other since I started
shaving.”
“Why so faithful?”
“Because it never lets me down. You
see, the blades are —”
Ah, the blade’s the thing!”
“--are stropped to perfection automati-
cally by a device in the razor itself.”
“Sounds good. But I’ve no time in the
mornings.”
* Don’t need it! Ten seconds on the strop
without taking anything to pieces gives
you a blade as good as new.”
“Sounds ideal now! Where can I—?”
“Any dealer’s. 3/-, 8/6 or 21/- for the
entire set, all with the same principle.”
HUSBANDS —Gilt-Edged and Otherwise.
Mrs. Plutocratic Miggs has never left
off smirking,
Bulging with enormous pearls, she
watches Alfred working,
Once men catch the Dancing Craze
’tis virulent as rabies—
Bless his heart—it keeps him young
to prance with Sugar Babies!
MDuua
9>*
[W/
THE DANCING HUSBAND.
Alfred spurns his snow-white Past
of virtuous endeavour;
In a whirl of gay balloons who would
not flirt for ever ?
Yet he shuffles back at last from
music, youth and colour —
Mrs. Miggs, the wise Old Girl, sits
smiling—with ABDULLA.
—F. R. Holus.
SUPERB CIGARETTES
TURKISH
EGYPTIAN
VIRGINIA


Winchester Rifle, Model 56.
22-Cal. Long Rifle only
Handles well
and
Shoots well.
ms
Write for Catalogue B.
The Rifle
for Small Game
Price, £5. Post free to all parts of
Australia.
The Gun House,
COWLES DUNN,
453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR ALL SPORT
BUY
THE SPORTING GLOBE
The Leading Australian Authority with the largest
staif of Sporting Experts and Special Representatives
in all States. The staif includes: —
“MUSKET” The Turf
“BAIL” Cricket
W. S. SHARLAND Football
PAT O’HARA WOOD Tennis
J. J. MAHER Cycling
J. M. DILLON Golf
A. L. DOBBIE Rowing
TOM MORLEY Coursing
MAURIE COLLINS Bowls
If. C. BROOKE Yachting
New South Wales edition available—
every Thursday, price 3d.
X
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess Insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNE f.L STREET, SYDNEY.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 QUEENSLAND.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
TO ALEXANDER WATSON RUDDIMAN
formerly of Brisbane in the State of
Queensland Labourer but whose pre-
sent whereabouts are unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an Action has been
commenced against you in the Supreme Court
of Queensland at Brisbane in the State of
Queensland No. 39 of 1929 by JANET
MURRAY SMITH RUDDIMAN your wife
in which she claims a dissolution of her mar-
riage with you and by her Petition filed in
the said Court she alleges that on the first
day of June 1923 you without cause deserted
her and such desertion has been continuous
up to the present time And IT HAS BEEN
ORDERED that service of the Writ of Sum-
mons and Petition on you be effected by
filing and by fixing on the Notice Board in
the Registry of this Honourable Court at
Brisbane a copy of the said Writ and an
office copy of the said Petition and by the
insertion of this advertisement in the Bris-
bane Courier and in the Sydney Bulletin.
If you desire to defend this action you must
within 32 days from the date of the last
act done in pursuance of the said order
enter an appearance at the Registry of the
Supreme Court at Brisbane aforesaid and
in default of such appearance judgment may
be entered against you.
DATED this Seventh day of February, 1929.
(l.s. ) D. M. Q’FLYNN,
Deputy Registrar.
Max. B. Deacon,
Adelaide-street, Brisbane.
NARRABEEN. NARRABEEN. NARRABEEN.
ELANORA HEIGHTS.
THE BELLEVUE HILL OF THE NORTH.
ADJOINING THE NEW GOLF LINKS of the ELANORA COUNTRY CLUB, which men competent
to judge predict will become the CHAMPIONSHIP COURSE of NEW SOUTH WALES.
FIRST SUBDIVISION OF CHOICE RESIDENTIAL SITES, commanding magnificent and extensive
views of the whole of the Coastline from SOUTH HEAD to BARRENJOEY (BROKEN BAY).
The Land is situated a little over a mile from the NARRABEEN TRAM TERMINUS, and is
approached by first-class, up-to-date roads, which bring the Estate within Fifty Minutes’
Motor Run from the G.P.O.
A SPECIAL LINE OF MOTOR ’BUSES WILL BE AVAILABLE from the NARRABEEN TRAM
TERMINUS to the Estate.
LIBERAL-SIZED ALLOTMENTS—EASY TERMS.
TORRENS TITLE.
AUCTION SALE ON THE GROUND,
SATURDAY, 9th MARCH, AT 3 P.M.
LITHOGRAPHS NOW AVAILABLE.
RICHARDSON AND WRENCH, LIMITED, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney
ROBEY, HANSON AND STRONG, LIMITED, The Corso, Manly
(AUCTIONEERS IN CONJUNCTION).
SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT!
POINT PIPER
WOOLLAHRA HOUSE
WOOLLAHRA HOUSE
POINT PIPER
IN SUBDIVISION
THIS HISTORIC ESTATE,
OCCUPYING ONE OF THE MOST DELIGHTFUL POSITIONS ON THE
HARBOR,
is specially designed to meet the requirements of gentlemen desirous of
acquiring Home Sites of Liberal Dimensions, ensuring privacy and a
Permanent View.
THE ESTATE IS APPROACHED BY WUNULLA ROAD,
a few minutes from New South Head and Cranbrook School Stop, is the
Centre of many of Sydney’s Principal Homes, near the Prince Edward Yacht
Club, and has the advantage of a Beautiful Sandy Beach (Lady Martin’s)
along the Water Front.
A Brochure will shortly issue showing full particulars and views from the Estate.
THE TITLE IS TORRENS. - - - EASY TERMS WILL BE GIVEN.
NOTE DAY OF AUCTION SALE ON THE GROUND:
SATURDAY, MARCH 16, AT 3 P.M.
Full Particulars will appear in the advertising columns of the Daily Press.
RICHARDSON & WRENCH, LTD.
92 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, AUCTIONEERS.
The Ins and Outs
“S T S.” : Arthur Richardson is pressing
the claim of llalcombe, an Adelaide boy now
in Perth, to a trial in the Fifth Test as “easily
the best fast bowler in any of the States.” In
the recent colts’ inter-State series, llalcombe
headed the averages with 15 wickets for 9
runs each, and this on “wickets yards slower
in pace than any Adelaide or Melbourne
pitch.” Also, he made an impression when
appearing against the English team in its
first match on Australian soil.
* * * ❖
“Erka”: In the 317 Tests played to date
only one Irishman has toured with an Eng-
lish team —L. Hone, a Belfast man. who" was
with Lord Harris’s side in 1879.. He played
in only one Test, making 13 runs for an
average of 6.5. Incidentally, no Scots-
man has represented England, although it
is predicted that Kerr, a Glasgow Univer-
sity man, will make a worthy representative.
* * * *
“Stickler”: Although no local umpire en-
livened the match between England and Bal-
larat by catching a batsman, the game was
sufficiently farcical. On the last day
Chapman, who had fulminated against the
famous Bendigo ump.’s attempt to introduce
a holiday spirit into the match there, put
on everyone on his side to bowl with the
exception of Sutcliffe. Apart from the incon-
sistency, the performance showed little con-
sideration for an audience that had come to
see such genuine trundlers as White and
Freeman in action.
* * * *
“Methuselah II.” : The cricket veterans are
not all confined to the Test elevens. The
country matches played to date by the Eng-
lishmen have unearthed more than one die-
hard who has battled against the giants of
other days. L. de Yere Hunt, who is to
appear with N.S.W. Southern Districts
against the Chapmanites, seems to be the
daddy of the lot of them. He not only skip-
pered Goulburn against Maclaren’s side of
1901-02, but figured against Lord Sheffield’s
team in 1893, getting the mighty “W.G.”
caught off his bowling by another immortal
bight Elijah Weatherby.
* * * *■
“Fitzcray”: Don Bradman, with 1305
runs up in first-class cricket for the current
season after the fourth Test, was lying in fourth
place on the Australian record list. He
heads all his fcllow-Australians, for the trio
above him are all overseas players—G. A.
Faulkner and A. D. Nonrse, here with the
G. GEARY, the Leicester professional
howler with the English XL.
South Africans in 1012, who scored 1534 and
1454 respectively; and .T. Hardstaff, the
Notts professional, who scored 3360 with
A. O. Jones's team in 1007-08.
* * * *
“Zyder”: Even more important to the
English XI than Hammond’s batting, per-
haps, has been the wonderfully accurate and
deceptive left-hand bowling of J. C. .White.
No English slow bowler has had such an
outstanding success in Test .matches in
Australia, even counting Colin Blythe, of
Kent, like White, a slow left-hand tosser.
White has been so successful since the first
match in Brisbane that he has completely
supplanted Freeman, the googly expert, whose
wonderful performances in England last
season made him the selectors’ first choice
as a slow bowler. To the end of the fourth
Test the man from Somerset has taken 23
wickets for an average of 25.91, and has
saved hundreds of runs with his deadly accu-
rate length. Only six other bowlers have
taken 13 wickets in a Test match in the
whole history of the series.
Racquet and Bawl
“Sturt”: As usual, South Australia is get-
ting the cold shoulder from the wealthier
tennis bodies, which profess to exist for the
advancement of the game in Australia as well
as within their own boundaries. Recently the
South Australian Association, which might
have known better from past experience,
asked N.S.W. to pay the expenses of a small
team of N.S.W. players to the S.A. cham-
pionships in Adelaide early in March. Ma
muttered something about times bein’ werry
’ard, shut the door and sat down again on
her well-filled cashbox.
* * * *
“Rev. Knucklebone”: There is a tinge of
tears in the announcement by the N.S.W.
tennis heads that the profit from the match
between N.S.W. and the Englishmen was
only £l5O, and from the Australian match
only a tenner. The truth is that the tennis
people ask far too much for their shows.
There is nothing in tennis to justify the
extravagant charges demanded. A nearer
approach to those made for more attractive
sporting exhibitions would probably show a
better credit balance.
* * * *
“Amateur Urger”: It is with regret, and
as one having some knowledge of the subject,
that I note the decision of the N.S.W. tennis
heads to institute a handicapping system.
Hitherto, tennis lias been free from sugges-
tions of running with the wraps on, occa-
sional reversals of form being attributed i.o
temperament, or ingrowing hair oil. or simi-
lar unavoidable calamities. Now things may
be different. I shall be surprised for one
if, after a few months' trial of the new
system, the association doesn’t hurriedly
decide to appoint a board of stipes.
* * * *
“Amateur Fro”: Tildeu, disqualified some
months ago for writing for the press, has
been reinstated as an amateur. He is too
valuable a draw card to keep on the ice, for
most of the association fees come from the
perennial exhibition tourneys that range up
and down America, staged under cover or
out of it, according to the season. Competi-
tion with the professional shows is keen,
and the loss of Tilden has meant a consider-
able falling off in receipts for the clubs and
percentages for the central organisation.
* * * *
“Ahasucrus” : The tennis world is getting a
bit mixed as to the national status of
Manuel Alonzo, who attained Davis Cup
fame as a Spaniard. For some time past
he has been resident in Mexico, and now it
is announced that he has settled down in
New York, where he has gone into business.
It is expected that he will take out Ameri-
can papers, in which case he may figure in
the next American Davis Cup team.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Vancie”: “Harold Ilardupp’s” golf-mad
friend (B. G/2/’29) reminds me of a bank
manager who used his office to give me a
lesson. I was leaving Brisbane, and having
made arrangements for having my account
transferred, asked to see the manager, whom
I had never met before. He immediately
commenced to talk about golf, and got out his
clubs (which seemed to be part of his office
equipment) and then and there gave me a
lesson in driving. He told me he was quite
sure he could improve my drive. I wish now
I had summoned up courage to ask if he
could improve my overdraft.
* * * *
“Maunga”: Beyond being a tolerable
judge of whisky, I know nothing of golf, so
I'm still in tin; dark as to which of the
globose gentlemen in crinoline pants was
right. It appears that the masliie—or who-
ever the responsible menial is—had put the
flag-bedecked rod wrong end up in a hole,
so that when one of the gladiators swiped
his alley good and hard it soared skyward,
and coming down on the upturned point
of the rod stuck there. He maintained that
it was duly potted ; the other addict insisted
that it was in baulk or something. As Duck-
worth would say. “Owzatt?”
* * * *
“Baffy”: The Australian golf champion-
ships are to be played at Seaton (S.A.) this
year, commencing with the amateur four-
somes on August 19. Three days will be
occupied by the open event; then follow the
amateur and professional championships. This
will be the first occasion on which a profes-
sional Australian championship has been
staged. Croweaters are keen on seeing one
of their two stars, JRufus Stewart or Fergus
Macmahon, carry off the prize.
* * * #
“Mid Iron”: No one who knows it will
be surprised that the Sydney municipal golf
course at Moore Park has been declared unfit
for the playing of “A”-grade matches by the
Country and Suburban Golf Association.
The £5OOO income from fees—lately raised
to Is. 6d. per round —is far more than is
needed to keep the course in first-class order
if properly administered. The trouble is
that the present Town Hall authorities per-
sist in the old policy obtaining when every
alderman with a friend out of work could
get him shoved on to a week or two’s paid
leisure on the city links. The sandy waste
maintains a larger ground staff than the
perfectly-maintained links of the Royal
Sydney Club, and in addition to that
the city blew in £lOOO last Christmas to pro-
vide “work” on the course for the unem-
ployed. For all the benefit the public reaped
the money might have just as well been
scrambled for in George-street.
$ $ $ $
“Divot Digger”: Tamworth (N.S.W.)
golfers are entering on their sixth open
Easter tournament with a programme which
should give every golfer able to visit the
Northern Districts during the holidays a
chance to splash himself. The 19 events cater
for practically every condition of golfer, and
include three championships—the women’s
open, the amateur open and the professional.
The new clubhouse, which is to be quite the
swankiest of its sort outside Sydney, is to
be opened on Easter Saturday by W. A.
Windeyer. It is said to be worthy to house
Bobby Jones and Walter Hagen at one and
the same time.
sic * * *
“Richmond”: Yarra Yarra, one of the
oldest Victorian golf clubs, will set in offi-
cially on its new course at Bentleigh at
Easter, when a big open meeting will be held.
The actual transfer from the old course at
Rosanna took place in December last, but
many improvements have been made since
then, and the new links are now right up
to first-class standard. Yarra Yarra is one of
the many clubs which claim the honor of
having hax-bored Joe Kirkwood as a tender
golf nursling.
* * * *
“Cariboo”: Touching the matter of golf
in Eastern Asia (B. 13/2/’29), the open
championship of the Philippines has been
won this year for the first time by a Fili-
pino native, Larry Montes by name. He did
the four rounds of 72 holes in 275, which
works out at a trifle over 3£ strokes per
hole—good work!
# # * #
“Hoylake”: One of the biggest events of
the golfing world, the annual Ryder Cup
match between teams of American and
British professionals, will be played in April
on the Moortown links outside Leeds. There
will be 12 a side. The first match in 192 G
was won by Britain, and the return game in
America next year by the home side. The
Americans wall be represented by the cream
of their professional talent, headed by the
redoubtable Hagen. Among the Britons is
Alis, who practically started the golf boom in
Germany, where he has been professional at
the Berlin club for some years past.
(Continued on page 39.)


Cheaper
Quicker
Cooking
We also stock all Elec-
t r i c a 1 accessories
Lamps, Shades, Primus
Stoves, etc., etc.
Let us quote you on
wholesale delivery.
With Focussed Heat from a
FLORENCE
OIL STOVE
€
It operates on Kerosene for
simplicity and safety it cannot be
surpassed. The FOCUSSED heat
system adds to its efficiency and
economy, makes the Florence the
most suitable stove for modern
homes.
No wicks to worry over no
intricate mechanism to cause
danger—simple and cool to use
—the Florence is a model of
sturdiness and beautiful finish—
non-odorous. Keeps the kitchen
clean and cool smoking of
roof of walls.
Models to suit all needs are available. Ask your storekeeper to show them
to you. If he does not stock them write us for full particulars, or call and
allow us to demonstrate FLORENCE economy, safety, reliability.
BRANDTS Lm
“EVERYTHING FOR LIGHT AND HEAT,"
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
'Phone: M 4651, MAI 002.
Queensland Agents: J. T. Greenlees & Co., Ann Street, Brisbane. Michelmore & Co.. Mack ay.
Armstrong, Ledlie & Stillman, Cairns. Samuel Allen & Sons, Townsville.
Mormon Temple ,
Salt Lake City,
Utah, U.S.A,
ACROSS AMERICA....
WITH LUXURY AND SPEED
Between San Francisco and other great cities of America —Los
Angeles, Seattle, Salt Lake City, St. Louis, Chicago, Detroit,
Washington, New York —every travel convenience is provided
to ensure the comfort of those to whom luxury and speed are
first considerations.
Tanscontinental railroads are standard gauge (4 ft. Bjr ins.)
throughout. Their passenger trains make fast running time
35 to 60 miles an hour—and are noted for safety. They have
Pullman cars of the latest design, with beautifully appointed
drawing rooms and compartments. Observation cars, club cars
for men, barber, valet, ladies’ maid, shower baths these are
notable features of service abroad.
In immaculate dining-cars, deliciously prepared food is
deftly and courteously served. Thus meals can be enjoyed on
the trains in leisurely comfort. American railroads allow break-
of-journey privileges anywhere en route.
Matson-Oceanic liners to San Francisco, connecting with these
luxurious trains, sail every third Saturday from Sydney by the
shortest and most picturesque route across the Pacific to America.
S.S. SIERRA S.S. SONOMA S.S. VENTURA
SAILINGS EVERY THIRD SATURDAY.
FARES FROM SYDNEY—To San Francisco: £5O/10/- Single, £B7 Return,
Second Class; £73 Single, £125/10/- Return, First Class. To New York : £73/4/-
Single, £129/8/8 Return, Second Class; £95/14/- Single, £167/18/8 Return, First
Cl as s. Other fares in proportion to any point in U.S.A. or Canada.
Cheap Excursion Tickets to Honolulu issued all the year round.
Hie #§ehii<§ steamship ©a*
MATOOR UHE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney A-29
Local Agents : Mcllwraith McEacharn Ltd., 94-96 William St., Melbourne; 117-119 King
William St., Adelaide; Fremantle, Perth, Albany; Howard Smith Ltd., Brisbane, Townsville
:
:
BSS
m
1H»X»
t»\«v
:- v '
m
%v%s%s%
m
te*
»s
«S 4
•k\*\%N
»v«
tut
tNttt
11111 l
\t\tN
•tv
»'.tM
■v -: :
f.t'its
f.t
t\t
tNf-.t'.t'i
tNt\t
SVt'.t'.tVt
«>.t\t^tNt v -t
V
«■
M
m
L:!
*#¥' :
KrS'ffl
m
■
*
illllii
Mill
■
' • -•:• :
' •:.
•mZim
The famous
AERTEX open weave.
\
J ROPICAL suns and
sultry heat have no terrors
for the man who wears
AERTEX underwear.
The myriad air cells of
this wonderful fabric com-
pletely insulate the body
against dangerous extremes
of temperature and even
triumph over the fierce
noonday heat. AERTEX
is the ideal underwear for
the tropics.
In two popular qutilities —
the original '.131 and the
lower-priced 88
quality.
fd
Obtainable from all Hosiers, Drapers and
Outfitters. In case of difficulty apply to
Mr. H. O. S. DREW
313/315 FLINDERS LANE,
MELBOURNE, Australia.
Representative of the Cellular Clothing Co.
Ltd., who supplies Wholesale Trade only.
Z'A
AERTEX
i-ONOO?
jsjhj Tim Label on all Garment)
See thil label on all garments
H. 1
A
FOLLOW THIS SIGN FOR PROFITS
_ TO THE
LEIPZIG SPRING FAIR. (Germany),
With GREAT ENGINEERING AND BUILDING FAIRS, Commencing March 3, 1929
Profitable to the Business Man on account of the payable agencies offering.
Profitable to the Pleasure Seeker, as the beauty of Springtime in Germany and
the wonderment of the Fair is a sight worth seeing. Advice and Letters of Intro-
duction courteously given entirely free.
Authorised Representative: LARS G. BRUNDAHL, 6 Dailey Street, Sydney. ’Phones: 84006, MW22OL
“IXL” Carbide
When forwarding your next order for Carbide
insist on being supplied with
“IXL” Brand.
It is manufactured in Australia
and is guaranteed by the manufacturers to be
at least equal to the British Acetylene
Association standard quality.
When using “IXL" Brand you are helping an
all-Australian industry to flourish.
If unable to obtain from your supplier
write direct to the undersigned:
H. Jones & Co. Pty., Ltd..
HOBART, TASMANIA, Sole Distributing Agents
For
The Australian Commonwealth Carbide Co., Ltd.,
Electrona, Tasmania.


Chains-Chains-Chains- Chains
Silent Drive
Chain.
Australian-made—better than Imported
Support Your Secondary Industries
Non-skid, hand-forged chains for a Ford to a
7-ton truck.
Chains for Collieries.
Chains for Brickyards.
Pit-cage chains.
Lashing chains.
Messenger and - Steering-wheel chains.
Sling, Snigging, Plough and leading chains.
Roller and Conveyor chains of all descriptions.
Mooring and Ships’ Cable chains.
Made from best Staffordshire iron.
The only complete chain works in the Common-
wealth.
All chains tested to Lloyd’s standard and
certificates issued,
BLOOMERS CHAINS, LTD.,
BRISBANE.
fd
REPLACE YOUR
SPEAKER WITH A
MAGNAVCX
DYNAMIC
SPEAKER
ďf
The speaker world has "gone
dynamic.” 4 Radio Magazine
calls the Magnavox "really
astounding.” 4 Magnavox re-
produces all notes and sounds
with the same proportionate emphasis. This
gives the rich full tones of the original broad-
cast, in volume without distortion. 4 The
unit fits right in your present radio cabinet.
Dynamic 80 Unit
Unit for A.C. Operation,
£lO/10/-
Unit for D.C. or A Battery
Operation, £7/15/-
Beverly
Model
Uunr.), for
Battery for
D.C., £lO
V'T!
Beverly Model
( Senr .) A.C.,
£l3/15/-
A. Battery, £ll
DEMONSTRATIONS AT ALL
RADIO DEALERS.
Australian Patent
No. 7225.
reff'l
$uP
Ib°
Britain’s
Motor
Masterpiece
In Mayfair and the Shires, across the plains ci
India and the desert tracks of Iraq, in the sun-
shine of Australia, or on the African veldt—•
everywhere where cars are used you will find
the Sunbeam.
Not only in mechanical efficiency but also in
coachwork of fine appearance and luxurious
comfort, Sunbeam leads the way.
Its high road speed, ease of control, security
of braking and stability under all conditions
ensure a performance of exceptionally high
standard.
The coachwork combines unusual beauty of line
with roomy accommodation.
Sunbeam cars for the Australian market are
specially built with the necessary ground clear-
ance, springing and cooling to ensure perfect
performance on the roughest roads and tracks
and in the most tropical heat.
Complete catalogue will be sent on application
to our Australian agents, or direct to our Export
Department.
AUTHORISED DISTRIBUTORS.
THE ALL BRITISH MOTOR CO. PTY., LTD., 111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
MESSRS. WILLIAMS, HILL & CAMERON, LTD., 91-97 Flinders Street, Sydney.
MESSRS. ARTHUR BALES, LTD., 367-371 Murray Street, Perth.
RASCH MOTORS, LTD., 69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT:
12 Princes Street, Hanover Square, London, W.l, England.
Cables: Head Office and Works:
“SubeamocoLondon. Wolverhampton, England,
Agents for Egypt: MIDDLE EAST MOTOR AGENCY, 3 Kon-Elo Dick, Alexandria.
C.T.P.55
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: A glance over the recognised
list of motor-car records shows that the
20,000-mile run on the Miramas track of
Lionel Rapson, which averaged 31.73 rn.p.h.,
figures prominently. Ray Keech’s 207.55
rn.p.h. is noted as the world’s speed record,
and is the more interesting in view of the
fact that two attempts will be made on it
next month by Malcolm Campbell and Major
Segrave. Another new record is the 200-
mile run by D. Froy, the hour rate being
310.66. A feature of the year has been
the success of the sleeve-valve Voisins, anil
of the 44 recognised records, Marchand (16),
A. Morel (12) and Kiriloff (8) hold the
bulk as actual drivers or members of a team
of drivers handling the French machines.
# # * *
“John B.”: Manufacturers have found
that tyres wear out faster at high speeds
than at low speeds, not only because more
heat is developed in the tyre, hut because
the abrasion is much emphasised. In a recent
American test a car was coaxed along at 45
rn.p.h., and the speed was kept up as uni-
formly as possible, while the curves were
taken without slowing down. When the
pace was reduced to 35 maximum an imme-
diate increase in tyre mileage was noted—
about 12,000 miles at normal speed as against
6000 high. It was proved that when a car
is at high speed there is a great deal more
tyre slippage, due to swerving from one side
to the other, and to the continual axle bounce
resulting from inequalities in the road, which
is magnified by the speed.
* >!< * $
“Cut Off”: Car- and motor-cycle racing
includes risks which affect not only the com-
petitors, as in most other sports, but spec-
tators as well. In an accident on Melbourne
Motordrome recently, when a youth was
killed and two others seriously injured by
a riderless cycle, the machine headed up the
steep, banked track instead of taking the
downhill path, ns might have been expected,
and dashed into the outer fence, striking the
lads, who were leaning over it. It is worth
noting that in these accidents the masterless
machine seems malignantly inspired to “have
a go” at the spectators before giving up the
ghost in an odor of burning oil. It is rare
to read of one running down the track slope
to the empty central enclosure where there
is no one to injure save a few' officials.
* * * *
“Wembley” (Lond.) : It looks as if the
Australian sport of dirt-track motor-cycling
is going the wmy of the bow T wow's it
displaced. Its detractors are beginning
to find too much sameness in the events,
most of the riders being too skilful to fur-
nish a sufficient supply of spectacular acci-
F. D. WALTER, the Victorian country
swimmer, who has been representing
Victoria in the Australian champion-
ships at Adelaide.
dents, while at the dogs there w r as always
some new version of a dogfight being staged
during the races. Further, the dogs were
less expense to the management, being kept
by their owners; and though the owners
might talk the dogs couldn’t. There has been
evidence that cyclists have been talking to
the Tommies, with results reflected in the
racing.
* He * *
“Sprocket” : The renascence of professional
cycling in Sydney has been interrupted by a
palace revolution among the riders attached
under agreement to the Velodrome manage-
ment. These have formed a riders’ associa-
tion the chief reason being, apparently, the
safeguarding of their interests against what
some of them consider exploitation by
the management. The latter in signing up
the riders has merely followed the principle
which Melbourne Motordrome borrowed from
America. As the disgruntled riders point
out, the system takes the control of the game
out of the hands of the governing body
elected by the men themselves, and places
it in the hands of the promoters, as is now
the case in America. The promoters say
that only by the means adopted can strict
discipline be maintained and the sport kept
clean. With vivid memories of the odor of
iniquity in which the last big Australian pro-
fessional cycling boom expired, the writer
for one is inclined to endorse the promoters’
attitude.
* * * *
“Hotham” : “Fatty” Lamb, the Victorian
cyclist, who has not been much in
the limelight lately, came back to it the
other day, when he put up a new
world’s record for a five miles’ motor-
paced spin on Melbourne Motordrome.
He was clocked to cover the distance in
4min. 37sec. R. Finlay did the pacing.
Miscellaneous
“Stand Off”: The N.S.W. Rugby Union,
soon to be incorporated as a company, has
a full programme in front of it this year.
In addition to the All Black tour, four
matches will be played with Queensland —in
Sydney (May 18 and 22), and in Brisbane
( June 1 and 3). The Queenslanders pro-
mise to face their first season since the re-
construction of the Union -with a good side,
though the proposed amalgamation with the
Brisbane Rugby League has fortunately
fallen through, save that University and
Past Grammars will play Union. Victoria,
which developed such good form last year,
will also figure in two matches against
N.S.W. in Sydney on June 15 and 19.
* * * *
“Birkenhead Park’’: The British and
French international Rugger tourney this
season has been full of surprises. France
downed Scotland on the latter’s own ground,
and Wales added to the Caledonian agony
by winning at Cardiff, the first victory of
the Leek over the Thistle for years. The
lid was then popped on by Ireland’s defeat
of England by two tries (0) to a converted
try (5) at Twickenham. This is the first
time England has been beaten on this ground
save for the All Blacks’ win in 1925 and
that of Scotland in 1920. A huge crowd of
visitors from Ireland cheered the Duke of
York to the echo when he arrived on the
ground.
* * * *
“Everton”: N.S.W. Soccer slipped badly
last year as the result of the breakaway of
the professional League body, and this season
a further quota of clubs is leaving the Asso-
ciation for the League. The former recently
tried to bring about a conference between the
two bodies to effect a settlement, but the
League lias refused to even argue the matter.
The position is peculiar, inasmuch as the
League has as yet no footing in the other
Soccer States, and inter-State matches are
out of the question up to the present. It
is, however, likely to extend its boundaries
and add still another unit to the increasing
trend toward paid sport in Australia.
* * * *
“Gate”: The N.S.W. Rugby and Queens-
land Leagues’ tour of the North of England
next season is taking shape. The- side will
leave Australia by the end of July, the
first match in England being played early
in September. The Englishmen want
the first Test match in the second
week of September, and the 36-game
programme of the last tour will probably be
increased. On the last tour of England the
Australian side, one of the best sent from
this country, lost 9 of their 36 matches. On
last year’s form against the English team,
and in view of the League’s failure to replace
the crack players of a few years ago, the
outlook for the next lot of visitors is even
less promising.
* * * *
“Spike”: There have been so many false
alarms of late in connection with the visit
of overseas athletic teams to Australia that
the announcement of a call from D. G. A.
Lowe, the famous middle-distance runner
and Olympic champion, partnered by the
Canadian sprinter Williams, also an Olym-
pian, seems almost too good to be true. A
lesser-known man in Ralph Ball, the Canuck
middle-distance crack, completes a hot trio.
At present the general idea is to tour South
Africa after Williams and Ball have appeared
in Eastern America and Britain, and then to
come on to Australia and M.L. Williams
has broken evens over the 100 and 220 more
than once, while Lowe has lmin. 51 4-ssec.
to his credit for the 800 metres at the last
Olympiad, and shares with the German Pelt-
ier the honor of being the greatest half-miler
yet seen in action.
* * * *
“Kopai”: Tom Miles, the champion
runner, did not run at the Bundaberg Chooks
Club sports (B. 6/2/’29) because he was
suffering from a strained leg for which he had
been under treatment for months. Few on
the inside expected he would, but there was
a certain elementary justice about his claim
for appearance-money even though he at-
tempted no record-making. Publicity about
Tom’s recovery from his leg-strain and pro-
bable record-breaking had been so good that
his name drew the crowd and gave the club
an unprecedented gate. That, however, in the
law’s eye did not affect the fact that Miles
contracted to run but did not run• a mere
appearance, however crowd-attracting, was
not enough.
* * * *
“Third Base”: Temperamental outbursts
are not confined to tennis or cricket. Sydney
baseball circles were mildly fluttered
when the Mosman catcher. F. Lambert,
disagreeing with an umpire’s decision, walked
off the field and refused to return in spite
of every possible cajolement. One cannot
imagine, say, Duckworth stalking off the
S.C.G. in high dudgeon because one of his
appeals for l.b.w. was ignored: if he did
there would be something doing. In baseball
they don’t seem to mind.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: The annual kidding of Mel-
bourne sportsmen began last week. On a
fixed date every February the ban on shoot-
ing wild duck is lifted and scores, even
hundreds, of guns rush eagerly in the direc-
tion of the Mallee, having had their appetite
for slaughter quickened by circumstantial
reports of the myriads of birds w-aiting in the
swamps of Kerang and other districts. When
they arrive, as often as not, barely a bird
is available, while from behind a hedge
comes a farm-hand's low inhuman chuckle.
What happens is that before the proclaimed
date the local guns go out. At the first
shot the birds leave their regulation feeding
grounds and settle on the dams of neighbor-
ing farmers. They invariably choose the
farms of men who would as soon let a city
sportsman shoot across his meadow's as eat
him. No doubt it is the old birds which pass
this valuable information on from genera-
tion to generation.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: South Australian oarsmen will
endorse the contention (B. 13/2/’29) that
it is high time something was done to re-
strain the exuberance of hydroplane speed-
sters in confined waterways. They have been
giving a lot of trouble in S.A. At Man-
num regatta an eight from the Torrens Club
was swamped and all but capsized by one of
these scooting water-hogs.


Under
Royal
Warrant
ď
ToH.NL
George V
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
CMslleiid
wmtms
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGNE
'-harleslleidsitfK
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
No Better
RAISINS
in any pack&i
at any price
they’re
SWALLOW
&ARIELLS
&
C*l£
f hi
W
STEMMED t CLEANED , SEEDED , fir USE
>■>,o Tip centre of Queens/anc/s
dist/nguisfac/ Soc/o/ Life.
Cctwtws
fd
WM
RDTCR
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
HAF HEEL
SILK HOSIERY
Sydney that 12 days ago was lying back
with parched mouth imploring a speckless
sky to cloud over and bedew her with the
gentlest shower, is now shaking an impotent
brolly at the steadily weeping heavens.
Twelve days ago the drought broke. With
one rip of its scissors the lightning slit
the blue carpet of the air and to the accom-
paniment of what is known as thunder, but
is really the angelic choir moving the grand
pianos in a hurry, down came the rain.
Coogee oval was turned into a lagoon, South
Randwick and Bondi were submerged, and
whole streets of little houses on the low
levels became so many channels for the
water, which poured in through every open
door. Suddenly dragged out rubber coats
were found to have melted in the long
months of heat; goloshes were missing;
neglected umbrellas had broken ribs. The
whole city was soggy, and nobody except the
families whose houses had been stabbed by
the long driving spears of rain did anything
but smile. The rain was a rich joke in
the arid desert of months.
But the joke has worn thin—as even the
best jokes must. From tin; Northern Rivers
came harrowing tales of flood; and lives
were lost in heroic attempts at saving others.
Only the real West is still drought-stricken.
At Wyalong last week a man drove to the
railway station through dust a foot deop.
His wife met him at Lawson, on the Moun-
tains. There they had had a foot and a half
of rain. Ivatoomba, higher up, had had nearly
two feet and has counted up another Sin.
since then. Bathurst, 50 miles on, had been
scarcely sprinkled.
Musical as well as social Sydney will
gain by the return of Justice Gordon’s plea-
sant wife. Four years ago she sold up the
home at Elizabeth Bay and took the girl
and boy to Europe to finish their education.
There was even some vague idea of making
England the family’s permanent address
on the Judge’s retirement. Mrs. Gordon,
whom an older generation of Australians
remembers vividly as Margaret Thomas,
first as a concert artist and then as a
charming musical-comedy actress, is Welsh;
and among the hundreds of nice things this
Letter knows about her is that, hearing of
a very poor and very lonely old Welshman
dying in one of the city’s institutions, she
went regularly for three months to visit him
and to read to him in Welsh from the Bible
he had brought with him from the foot of
Snowdon.
The Judge has brought home with him a
sparkling little wife, a surprisingly grown-
up Anne (she’s just left school) aiul son Alex-
ander, who, being a true Scot, has adopted
engineering as his profession. Already he
has spent a year in a big works near London,
and will start in at Sydney Uni. this year.
While in England the family made its
home at Clifton, near Bristol, and Mrs. Gor-
don’s chief recreation was motoring. As she
had never driven in Sydney, it’s to her credit
that she had only one mishap chalked up
against her. It was an argument with a
cow on the Bristol Bridge on Fair Day;
and it had quite an amicable ending. Of
all things seen during four years, perhaps
the golden beeches in Surrey lanes, Melrose
Abbey with its historic graveyard (here
among the not-so-famous headstones the Aus-
tralians found themselves strangely touched
by a plain granite slab to the memory of
Alfred Lord Tennyson’s coachman, whose
47 years of service is thus commemorated),
and the soldier monument on Castle Hill in
Edinburgh.
Lady Davidson (Governor Sir Walter’s
widow) and Diana and Daphne did Paris
with Mrs. Gordon and her offspring; and
Lady Davidson avers her intention of com-
ing to Australia for a visit in about a year’s
time. Meantime she lives at Tiverton, where
the girls are becoming known as keen horse-
women.
Judging from her sitting-room at Carnar-
von, everyone in Sydney had sent roses to
welcome home the popular Mrs. Gordon.
Window ledges, fireplace, tables and corners
were massed with yellow, red and pink blooms.
Australia has its first Papal Countess. The
Pope has ennobled Mrs. Freehill, of Carmona,
Darling Point, in recognition of her many
services to the Church, especially in the
person of Cardinal Cerretti. to whom she
made a free transfer of her home, cars and
domestic staff during the Eucharistic Con-
gress. Mrs, Freehill’s kindnesses to R. C.
charities (notably the Westmead Boys’
Home) and to St. John’s within the Uni.
have no doubt been taken into account also
in the bestowal of this high honor. The
late Mrs. Tom Dalton had previously held
the highest Papal honor among Australian
women, she having been decorated with the
Order of the Holy Sepulchre. Only one title
higher than Countess can be plucked by a
woman from the tree of St. Peter’s. It is
the Order of the Golden Rose. This is De-
stowed on Sovereigns only, and the present
Lady of the Golden Rose in Europe is the
Queen of Spain.
Among the many victims claimed by
pneumonia during this appalling European
winter was Mrs. Tony Hordern, who died
last week in London. Mrs. Tony, who had
a rare combination of beauty and serenity,
was Viola, daughter of Colonel Bingham, of
the Indian service, and lived in Melbourne
before her marriage into Sydney’s merchant-
prince family. She will be missed as a
hostess and as one of our best-dressed
women. At one time she took an
active interest in racing, and her horses
were entered at Randwick and various
country meetings. Charity movements will
miss her generous loaning of the famous
ballroom and grounds of Retford Ilall. More
particularly will her loss be felt by the
Crown-street Women’s Hospital. She was
a member of the board and the house com-
mittee for six years, and during that time
was associated as joint secretary with such
money-makers as the Violet matinee, the
Poster Ball and the Ceramic Ball. She
leaves a husband and three children—a son
and two daughters—in deep sorrow.
Harry Russell, who died lately at his
Bowral home, was the senior partner of
Sly and Russell, one of the “Big Five” in
Sydney’s legal life. He specialised in the
Marine and Admiralty branches, but excelled
in many others. The only occasions when
he was thoroughly worried in a professional
sense were when old clients came to him for
advice about divorce suits. He had, in the
literal sense of the word, a holy hatred of
divorce. His father was N.S.W.’s Govern-
ment astronomer for many years, and his
grandfather was Brown Russell, M.L.C. He
leaves a widow and two daughters—Mrs.
Brian Windeyer and Mrs. Moore, wife of
an R.N.R. Commander.
The picture of smiling health herewith is
Mary Whitehorn, of Maoriland ; and for the
last three
yeaivs she has
had almost as
much to do
with the low
rate of its in-
fant mortality
as Dr. Truby
King. Through
these years
she has been
tbe great
man’s secre-
tary ; and now
she lc nows
almost as much
about mother-
hood as that re-
doubtable Peg
o’ My Heart’s
father. She
knows in prac-
tice as well as
theory every
bit of the wbrit
that goes on in the Wellington factory where
the Karitane baby-health foods are made.
She expounds the little doctor’s gospel of
what to eat. When she was a school kiddie
she ate brown bread, not because she liked
it, but because Dr. Truby King said you
should. Her admiration for him and his
works is monumental; and if the proposed
factory in Sydney materialises, Australia
will see her as often as her native land. May
Moore photograph.
While the vote lasts it’s almost like being
royalty to be the Premier’s offspring. And
in these days when crowns are looked upon
more or less as rolling stock, the position
is almost as established. John Bavin, there-
fore, smoothed on his speckless spats and
saw to his tie and the crease in his blameless
trousers with an infinite care before he faced
the multitude waiting to see him wed attrac-
tive Marcia Allen last week. John’s dressing
is always good, but there was a shining
radiance about it on the great occasion only
equalled by his effulgent smile as he stepped
from the doorway of All Saints’ at Wool-
lahra with his bride on his arm.
The tall, slim girl carried her ivory satin
and real lace with an air, and was not at
all incommoded by a train three yards
long that fell from the shoulders of the
simply-cut frock with its uneven flared skirt
and its long tight sleeves of lace. The tulle
veil had its fullness drawn away from the
face and fitted snugly to the head, and the
most glittersome thing in the regalia was
the diamond brooch that stabbed the softly-
tied hip-boW. As among all the best people,
the wedding was an afternoon affair; and
generously enough the rain-clouds slipped
off to the west and gave.the sun a chance
to pour down his blessing. The official
blessing had been given by the Bishop of
Newcastle (Dr. Long) assisted by Canon
Langley.
Venn Wesche best-manned and Stewart
Jamieson once again acted. as groomsman.
Shirley Bavin, sister of the ’groom, and Bar-
bara Allen, cousin of the bride, and tiny
Annabel and Barbara Austin, the bride’s
nieces, in frocks suggestive of an apricot
harvest, took part in the ceremonial, looking
as blooming as the bouquets of apricot
gladioli and yellow roses they carried. Toasts
and a great reception followed at Merioola,
the Arthur Allen home, set about with tawny
gladioli and yellow roses. To it came the
Governor and Lady de Chair with daughter
Elaine. Mrs. Arthur Allen received the
guests in an outfit of delf blue splashed with
primrose, a beautiful background for her
yellow roses. The Premier’s wife wore crepe
tie Chine the shade of pale honey, and car-
ried i'od roses; and flowered chiffons, topped
by a red hat, were the choice of bride’s sister
Margaret.
Pretty Glory Bohrsmann took the oath at
St. Mark's, Darling Point, the first fine
night last week. In between the fluttering
of her butterfly wings Glory is a consistent
worker for Sydney Hospital and many other
charities, so the old marriage market held
crowds of well-wishers in addition to the
invited guests. Dr. G. Ilall Bohrsmann gave
his only daughter to the life-long care of
John Baden Wallis, of Bose Bay, and in
her shimmer of satin and froth of tulle and
lace (pink blushing under the white) the
bride looked man’s great inspiration. Help-
ing in the effect were three golden girls,
Nancy Furniss, Marjorie Simpson and Vera
Wallis. Their frocks were a swirl of prim-
rose-to-dalfodil tulle allied to bodices of
golden taffeta. They wore large gold
crinoline hats looped with velvet ribbons
that fell with a Watteau shepherdess air to
the hem of their frocks. Like the bride, they
carried orchids; but while hers sprang from
a cluster of lily of the valley and trailed
frangipanni, the ’maids cradled theirs in
golden gladioli and Calla lilies. Rudolph
Bohrsmann best-manned, while a doctor-
brother of the bride and Ted Fahey balanced
the wedding procession.
The whole of the Ambassadors was taken
for the subsequent reception. Here 250
guests, not to speak of Cupid, were bidden
welcome by Dr. Bohrsmann. Cupid didn’t
announce himself until after dinner. Then
the electrics were turned out so that the spot-
light might have full play on a towering
Everest of wedding cake set in the middle
of the ballroom amid pink roses and silver
balloons; and presently out from the shadows
danced Cupid, silver arrow and all, and led
the bride to stab the frosty fastness.
Saturday had its Army as well as its Navy
wedding. The bride was Mary Louise Pax-
man, who had brought her happy eyes all the
way from England to look again on Captain
Clement Gladstone Reynolds, of the Army
Staff Corps. The two were made one at St.
Philip’s on Church Hill, in an atmosphere
that blazed with scarlet and blue. A Con-
tcssa model in white chiffon whose outstand-
ing features were the three flat-pleated
flounces of the skirt was worn by the bride
in conjunction with a rose-point lace veil
which had been her great-grandmother’s.
White tiger-lilies and frangipanni formed her
fragrant armlet. Kathleen Brown, who had
come from England to attend her friend,
wore palest pink ninon with a picture hat
of white tulle; and June Reynolds, Pamela
Hodgson, Peggy Dickeson and Joyce Opie, in
Kate Greenaway frocks of white net and
white tulle poke bonnets, made up the pretty
group. Reception followed at the Went-
worth, "where Mrs. Paxman. received in beige
georgette and lace topped by a gold lame
toque. The bride’s father was James Pax-
man, an engineer of note and one-time High
Sheriff of. Essex and Mayor of Colchester.
Margery Potts, who went to Burma to
visit the Melndoe Hodges, in Rangoon, and
later on stayed with Commander and Mrs.
Wells in Monlmein—the centre of all
Romance, according to Kipling—has come
back to Sydney with an engagement ring.
Margery is the only child of Mrs. E. S. Fotts.
of Bayswater-road, and is a kindergarten
teacher at the C. of E. Grammar in Forbes-
street. The lucky man is Gordon Innes,
now of Rangoon, once of Scotland. He
comes to claim his bride in May.
Another Sydney girl, Dr. Jeannette Howes,
who went to Rangoon and changed her name
to Marsh, came home to Mosman and mother
the other day. She will take back a girl-baby.
W. R. Hammond, the cricketer, now in
Australia with the English Eleven, is to go
the way of all heroes if the cables are to
be trusted. The young professional met his
bride-to-be while playing at Scarborough.
She is Dorothy Lister, daughter of ,T. B.
Lister, who is something in Bradford, whither
so much of Australia’s wool finds its way,
and is reputed to have addled a power o’
brass, as they say in those parts. After hi 3
marriage the bridegroom will play as an
amateur.
Lucille, the youngest of the three Moreau
girls who used to live in Double Bay. has
become engaged in Paris to Hamish Weir
Samson, of Old Cumnock, Ayrshire.
Up till last Saturday the nice girl in this
Dayne picture was Isla Robertson ; now she
is the wife of
Rear - Admiral
Hyde, in com-
mand of the
A u s t r alian
Squadron. Be-
yond the gar-
landing of the
flagship with
the usual
wreath to
show there
was a wedding
in the family,
the nuptials
were the
quietest known
in the Navy
for many a
year. To be-
gin with, the
linking up
was effected in
t h e bride’s
home in Addi-
son-road, Manly; and there was no tulle or
orange blossom, the brown-haired bride
sparkling from an ensemble of georgette
velvet in a shade of blue that suggests the
midnight sky. The coat w r as of ring velvet
collared and cuffed in sable. Mrs. Hyde is
the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm
Robertson, of Jandra, Bourke, and of Manly;
and she has a sort of Annie Laurie voice and
a very pleasing smile, and is totally unad-
dicted to public movements.
The information was given in these
columns over two years ago; but a cable
from London has told us that Leon Heron,
whose decorative work is known to Bulletin
readers, will shortly announce his engagement
to Margery Ilicklin, the actress who was in
Australia as lead in “The Cousin from
Nowhere,” and played in “Ivatja” and some
other pieces. Leon's devotion deserves its
reward. When the lady’s show came to Syd-
ney after its opening in Melbourne, the
young artist, relieved by parental fortune
from sordid considerations of cost, came too,
and haunted the theatre nightly; he fol-
lowed the show round on its Australasian
tour, and then w r ent on to England, where
Margery is now playing lead in “The Show
Boat.”
Madeleine King-Hall, who flung a pebble
in the pond with her “Diary of a Young
Lady of Fashion,” is now going to adventure
in the world of matrimony. Her fiance is
Patrick Perceval-Maxwell, of Finnebrogue,
Co. Down., a distant relation. Sydney re-
members blithe young Madeleine as a slim
serious-looking school girl sitting, when
guests were asked to lunch at Admiralty
House, shy and silent next to her governess.
The David Stewart Dawsons are facing
England and Scotland in April. This is
the first visit the founder of the great jewel-
lery firm has made to cold climes for 12
years. Every Dawson relation in Great
Britain is rallying in London to greet their
Grand Old Man on his arrival.
If Commissioner of Police Jimmy Mitchell
retires this year Sydney presswomen will
lose a gallant friend. Hard to say how many
disappointments have been saved and how
much good copy got through the possession
of the neat little Police Press-pass, which
Mr. Mitchell instituted for the help and com-
fort of the scribe. Armed with one of these
the smallest midget finds herself transported
as if on velvet through the densest crowd.
Before a wave of a distracted hand which
holds the sesame, barricades melt, and the
strongest policeman is a Raleigh unto Eliza-
beth. When Royal personages have visited
the land, a special pass, in addition to the
one that admits to fashionable wmddings and
such, has been issued, and the boon it has
been to the harassed human blotting-pad
only she can tell. When lie retires it will
be up to the Society of Women Writers to
spread a special lunch in the Commissioner’s
honor.
That very sound artist Ethel Stephens has
retired from the chair of the Society of
Women Painters, after holding it for six
years. There was a grand party with suit-
able addresses and gifts spread for her in
the society’s rooms in the Queen Victoria
Buildings last Friday.
Georgina, Countess of Dudley, whose death
was referred to last week, was one of the
beautiful Moncrieffe girls who were toasts of
the gallants of the ’seventies. Her husband had
the reputation of being very gallant indeed.
Legend had it that he provided black silk
sheets for his marital bed, thereby to inten-
sify by contrast the charms of his young
bride. The do-wager was mother of that
Lord Dudley who was once G.-G.
What’s in a name? A small boy in Can-
berra is of the same opinion as William
Shakspeare. He is Ted Dullard, and he
was dux of the school at Ainslie last year.
He also scored the Federal Capital Com-
mission’s gold medal.


13
GARTH
JONES
a
An honest servant is a great economy
(5
T
s
ime is the most valuable posses-
sion. It cannot be replaced if
lost or stolen. What more im-
portant than a servant who will
guard faithfully that priceless treasure?
Day in, day out through a busy and
eventful life, an Omega Watch guards
the passing seconds. Guards them
without error. It keeps time, it loses
not, neither is it concerned with gain.
A good and faithful servant. Honest
and therefore truly economical.
In appearance and style too an
Omega Watch is true to your good
name. A handsome retainer with a
becoming dignity.
'• '4
1
Exact time for life
E
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
SIECINC EN6IANC
llVf
l
•v
»>* c ~ '
.. .• -rv
3»'- ,
«v
3
/>
*' 4
\\ . ■ «»
IT IS EASIER AND BETTER BY CAR.
Speed away into the open countryside
of rural England, in a Car of your own.
HENLYS will sell you a Car and Guarantee
to repurchase it at a definite price fixed at the
time of buying. This will enable you to
.approximate your expenditure of running a
Car, which is cheaper than hiring ; does
away with irritating formalities, and
your car is always at hand to go
wherever you like. You can use
it till the last day of your holiday,
with no worries of trying to find
a purchaser.
HENLYS LEAVE CAR SERVICE is
the nost comprehensive ever evolved.
Send for a Brochure “Seeing England
by Car” giving full particulars, and
when m England call and in-pect
our huge and varied selection of
up-to-date models.
HENLYS
England's Leading Motor Agents.
Devonshire House, Piccadilly, W. 1
and 9 Branches in London &. Manchester.
, . . A Free Copy of “Seeing England by Car” wil
be sent free on application trom the offices of this paper, 214 George Street North, Sydney.
The ecmcc
LINCo/DEALTy
r
n.
f\
A satin brocade step-in
is shown above. The sides
are of hand-loomed elas-
tic, the front and back is
lined with lightly boned
sateen.
NCTADIET
BETA
CC/XACD
f€C THOSE
EXTRA
PC LINDT
So quickly smoothed curves
that are slightly bulging—when
you wear Gossard foundations.
Your favoured dresses have
their smart lines, your figure
and posture that feeling of slim
grace that must not be lost if
you are to be fashionable.
fd
fd
Double net forms
this new Cunning-
form brassiere,
which gives uplift
lines by means of
center front draw -
strings.
Ask to see the new types of
Gossard foundationwear—
hookarounds, step-ins, sol-
itaires, combinations,
front-lacing corsets,
and brassieres.
The
Canadian H. W. Gossard
Co., Ltd,
114-120 Castlereagh Street
SYDNEY, N. S. W.
GOSSARDS ARE MADE WITHIN
THE EMPIRE


K44a
w
523 s
r
fartftw S&£FAt/-7Aj'*'&'7£> tr/o*/ O&fZ'Gr&'UXS'rt
/ c j&z’/sj/O&J.Gyrt#
/ - s/Qj*' c?s?u.£^r?3?&
Mzrci s r//sm jsr’&J ayffMWS'
ywji’ :i$A/civfrsi/rr3 tyAtr i *» iicy/>w &*.
¥
ittvocavo;
Nvrmusnv
aaaN3TO
dazi«A»isva
i ?
Hii
MPJi
NO RIND—NO WASTE
ABSOLUTELY CLEAN
Sold in irlb. cartons, as illustrated, and by weight by all grocers.
K6e WENTWORTH
A Hotel of ‘Distinction
To which men and women of Distinction the world over
return time after time. Built on historic Church Hill, it
has itself become of almost historic interest. Here, in the
heat of summer is the cool and restful comfort that results
from scientific ventilation, and in winter cold winds are
forgotten in its centrally heated atmosphere. Here, too,
are a perfect cuisine, a spacious lounge and efficient
service—service so graciously given that it has earned
for the Hotel in Australia and Overseas the title of
The friendly Wentworth
CABLE ADDRESS: MUM, SYDNEY. TELEPHONE: BWI 361.
Melbourne
Chatter
Rag sales are still on at many leading
emporiums, summer stocks being hard to get
rid of. Autumn offerings so far are limited
to evening gowns. These advance models are
much like those of last season, with slight
changes in length and trimming. Straight
lines still prevail, but the new gown hides
a little more leg than its predecessor did.
The uneven hem-line is much in evidence,
and knees won’t be much in evidence in the
months to come. New materials
velour faconne, which is chenille-embroid-
ered chiffon or georgette in varied colors,
and more closely patterned than previously;
tinsfil lama, a brocaded stuff of light duality;
and flower-figured ring velvet of gorgeous
sheen. Some of the frocks utilise all three
materials. Simplicity is the watchword and
beads and sparkles are only sparingly used.
A Chanel-red georgette, all points around
the hem, has a small true-lovcrs’ knot of glis-
tening stuff at one side of the normal waist-
line as its only embellishment. A faint,
frosty encrustation is scattered over the
bodice of a black chiffon, and there are
patches of glitter on a soft peach-pink con-
fection. The latest fad is the straight belt
round the natural waist-line, fastened with
a gorgeous buckle. The butterfly bow makes
its reappearance on taffeta frocks intended
for figures lissom and willowy.
The first day of the V.A.T.C. Autumn
meeting at Caulfield was anything but
pleasant. The morning was of the sultriest,
and feminine nerves were down to chewed-
string level when the first race was run.
During luncheon the clouds banked and
then came a spectacular thunder-storm.
Two events were contested in such a deluge
of rain that the riders must have weighed-in
considerably heavier than they left the
scales. With the passing of the tempest
there was a return to moist heat. When
things were at their worst the bookies were
permitted to carry on trade beneath the
shelter of the stands, where all was crush
and confitsion.
The course looked a picture, with beds
of pink petunias mingling with mari-
golds, islands of color in the lately
acquired territory, where green lawns appear
in place of what once was blue metalled
highway. There was but little that was
striking in the dressing, which was mostly
a matter of floral chiffon and georgette
frocks, made with dangling pointed pieces
about the skirt, and a few ensemble outfits
of light materials. Mayoress Luxton was
in beige georgette with lace straw hat in
darker tone. Accompanying her was Meg
Griffith, from Albury, whose black satin frock
was topped by a black felt hat. Mrs.
Merson Cooper, just back from a holiday in
Tasmania, had some touches of pink upon
black millinery that was allied to a black
lace robe. Silk with an all-over leaf design
in brown, fawn and red was Madame de
Bavay’s choice; and Mrs. E. M. Pearce put
her faith in sapphire blue georgette and
lace, with same-toned hat. Leon Gordon
and his pretty little wife, and Mrs. Herbert
Mundin, who was with Mrs. Rogers Thom-
son, were among theatrical racegoers.
Others on the lawn were Mrs. Grahame
Brown, Mrs. Ouvry, the Percy Blackbourns,
Ben Chaffeys, Fred Scarletts,- Mrs. T. A.
Tabart and Mrs. Claude Grice. Eleanor
Willis, who was in the committee ladies’
box, had with her Miss Mort, from Sydney.
Boots are to be thrust upon us this winter.
They are cut to just cover the ankle, and are
known as near-Oxfords. They lace in about
four holes over the instep and then open out.
This sort of footwear has found favor in
both Europe and America, so there doesn’t
seem much chance of dodging the clumsy
contraptions.
Club members and society hadn’t very much
time for the meeting at Moonee Valley
races in aid of the Children’s Hospital.
The slogan of “Pay at the gate, whoever you
arc,” isn’t always popular with the
wealthy, which is one reason why they get
that way. The members’ enclosure was
almost deserted, though it was a lovely day
for such an outing, and the lawns and
garden plots looked charming. The president
of the Moonee Valley Club, Alister Clark, and
Children’s Hospital secretary LI. Barrett
..•ore there., Mrs. Archibald Currie, in an
ensemble outfit of sapphire-blue repp and
figured silk —she’s a member of the com-
mittee of the hospital—also watched the
gee-gees. Others on the lawn were Mrs. A.
V. Kewney, Mrs. Butler Walsh, Mrs. Nor-
man Derham, Mrs. W. E. B. MacLeod and
Miss H. Poolman, acting-sec. of the hospital.
The latest victim of something or other —
it wouldn't be fair to blame even the coast
yet—is the passenger steamer Kanowna,
bound from Sydney to Melbourne. In what
the master describes as “thick and dirty
weather,” this fine vessel, which carried over
200 passengers, ran ashore on Cleft Island,
just after turning the corner —Wilson’s
Promontory—on her way to Melbourne.
Luckily the sea was calm, and the ship was
afloat when the Mackarra, a cargo boat,
summoned by wireless, arrived. The pas-
sengers were taken off bv the Mackarra, and
the steamer Dumosa, which arrived later, was
in time to taka off the crew and officers.
The Kanowna then foundered. Just at pre-
sent three hundred-odd people are feeling
very, very thankful and a hundred times as
many are feeling very critical.
A Chatterer, feeling spent, sought
recuperation at Portland, about 250 miles
down the coast, where the Pacific breaks
in evenly spaced rollers upon a wondrous
►stretch of grey sand where sharks do not
break in nor speed-boats corrupt. It is a
favorite resort of well-to-do folk of the
Western District, being too far from the city
to suffer invasion by the common herd. Surf-
boards are regarded ns curiosities, and the
eyes of local youth open wide with astonish-
ment when some offspring of the rich storms
the waves on a mammoth rubber shark or
seal. The train journey from Melbourne
takes eleven hours, the route lying through
•Ballarat and Ararat. At the place with
the biblical name the railway refreshment
room slays the fatted goose for luncheon —
and a very palatable bird it is. The
locomotive on the branch line from Ararat
through Hamilton has no speed ambitions;
but a magnificent view of the Grampians
compensates for the crawl.
Portland’s, history is closely linked with the
fortunes of the Henty family. Edward, son
of Thomas Henty, the English farmer who
settled in Vah Diemen’s Land, arrived in
Vic. in the ship Thistle in 1834, and he
was followed by other brothers. Richmond,
son of Stephen George Henty, was the
first white child born in Portland, his birth-
place being what is now the Richmond
Hotel. The present proprietor of the
hostelry has kept intact the charming old-
fashioned garden, set within high blue stone
walls. Another ancient Henty house overlooks
a lake —a fine old mansion with spacious
grounds which was recently .sold for a mere
song. A stone obelisk erected on the coast
near the lighthouse does double duty as a
Ilenty memorial and a reminder that at this
spot the first bit of ploughing was done.
During the visit of the Chatterer a White
Star liner carried 00,000 bags of wheat from
the pier which winds its way eerpentinely
seaward for nearly a mile, so the plough must
still be very busy in the district.
Portland, though free of crime, has a gaol,
a sturdy bit of masonry that is open for
public inspection two afternoons weekly.
It has held no prisoner for eighteen years.
A fortress on a promontory, over whose
ramparts a couple of obsolete cannons peer,
is a relic of past glories. The botanic
gardens boast fine trees and gay blossoms,
and there is kept Portland’s pride, the
lifeboat, looking bright as a new pin though
’twas in *59 that it achieved its fame by
rescuing survivors of the wreck of the
Admella.
Here is a Melbourne girl, Eda Bennie, who
has passed nearly half her life on the grand
opera stage in the Cold Country, having had
four years
as principal
soprano with
the Beecham
companies, a
similar term
with the Carl
Rosa organisa-
tions and six
years with the
British Nat-
ional. In the
off season for
opera the con-
cert platform
and the broad-
casting micro-
phone have
shared her at-
tention. Aus-
tralia last
heard her when
she revisited
her native
land with the
Quinlan Opera Co. She received all her
musical training abroad, leaving Australia
at sixteen to become a pupil of the late
Madame Marchesi in Paris. Now she has
returned for a short visit to her people and
is greeting old friends. She intends staying
about six months, and will spend some of her
time teaching the art of opera to promising
vocalists.
Will Longstaff’s picture “Menin Gate at
Midnight’’ was unveiled by General Monash
on Friday afternoon in the banquet hall ot
the Town Hall, where it is to remain on
view for a few days. It is shrined in a
setting of cinnamon-brown curtains and
wreaths of gilded laurel. At a distance the
phantom hosts depicted by the artist suggest
a great field of blue-grey flowers on tall
stalks, spreading before a white monument
bathed in gleams of moonlight filtering
through banks of blue and grey clouds. On
closer inspection the blossoms resolve them-
selves into tin hats and bayonets belonging
to the spectral army. General Monash, on
dropping the Union Jack that covered Lord
Woolavington’s gift to Australia, said that
the white memorial arch which dominates
the picture marks the site of the portal
through which all British units in France
passed on their way to the trenches. Mayor
Buxton—he saw service in France —and
Rear-Admiral Napier also made speeches. In
the private-view throng were Mayoress
Luxton, Major-General Brudenell M bite,
Major-General and Mrs. W. A. Coxen, Mrs.
,1. 11. Bruelie and Mrs. H. Septimus Power.
Lord Woolavington may not be known to
many by that name. Once he was Sir James
Buchanan; and when you say Buchanan, of
course, you think whisky. My lord is the
first baron.
Here is the latest Vandyck picture of
Owen Dixon, who has been appointed to the
vacancy on
the High
Court Bench
caused by the
death of Mr.
Justice Hi g-
gins. Our new
Judge, who is
but 42 years
of age, was
born in Haw-
thorn, the son
of Joseph
Dixon, a well-
known lawyer,
no w retired.
The son gradu-
ated at Mel-
bourne Uni.,
and served
articles with
A. Cameron,
now chairman
of the Tram-
ways Board. Ho was called to the Bar in
1910, and 12 years later took silk. His wife
is a daughter of the Rev. H. A. Brooksbank,
of Adelaide.
A crowded and very restless audience
endured a distressingly hot night at the
King's on Saturday, when the Leon Gordon
co. put on “The Flying Squad.” Early
efforts were made to’ open the roof to let
in some air, but ’twas not until the fourth
act that, amid loud rumblings, the mechanism
was induced to work. The house had a gala
appearance, since dance frocks were the only
sort of dress bearable. Even the boxes were
crowded. Mrs. Charles Wenman’s party
included Mrs. Menzies greeted by the
gallery as old-favorite Dorothy Vane, and
May Collins. The John Taits occupied
another box, and sundry others of the clan
were scattered about the stalls. In the
d.-c. were Mrs. Ramsay and her daughter
Viola charming in a sparkling green frock,
Mrs. J. A. Gilruth and Mrs. James Purves.
Mrs. Wilshire and Mrs. Everard Browne were
companions, and Rose Patterson was also in
the audience. Mary McGregor, of Brisbane,
the leading lady, has many bits of finery to set
off her slim figure and pretty coloring. The
flounce devoid of gathering is an outstanding-
feature of the modelling of her wardrobe.
A delightful evening frock is of silver metal
cloth, made with two deep flat circular frills
headed with a sash of itself finished at the
back with bow and ends. All Miss
McGregor’s hats are felt of the brimless
order, and she wears two entire outfits of the
now popular green. Flowers handed up at
the final curtain made a colorful patch in
a drab stage setting. Henrietta Cavendish
and Millie Engler shared in the posy distri-
bution.
Mrs. F. W. Eggleston, with a primrose
hat topping a frock of radium lace and ripe-
corn georgette, presided at the Lyceum Club
over a lunch-bridge-afternoon-tea party
which served as a welcome to Mrs. Harry
Emmerton and her niece Mary Emmerton
after their travels. The hostess was aided
by her daughter Jean, arrayed in white,
shadowed by a rose-red hat. The Morell
lady and Dame Mary Hughes, whose black
lace gown was enlivened by a red hat, were
there.
A dance was given at the home of Major
and Mrs. H. E. Jones, Canberra, by their
daughter Betty. It -was a young people’s
night, and amongst the dancers were Muriel
Marr, Dorothy Thomas, Doris Yandell, Jean
Sharling, Keith Lloyd and Alan Turner.
Bridge monopolised the attention of older
folk.
St. John’s, East Malvern, was dressed in
its best on a recent evening, when Percy
Cox. of that suburb, piloted daughter Lorn a
to the altar and a waiting bridegroom, John
Blair Griffiths. The glimmer of satin ana
mist of ninon which formed the bridal gown
was confined by a silver belt. The train
and veil of fine lace were lent by the bride-
groom’s mother. Ruth Patterson. Nancy
Sayln, Mavis Cox and Norma Griffiths
fluttered scarf streamers as pink ’maids.
After-rejoicings took place at No. 9.
One of our most pleasing sopranos assumed
the role of bride at St. Joseph’s, Malvern,
last week. She was Kathleen Rochfort. who
was a member of the last Gilbert and Sulli-
van company. The bridegroom was Fred
Strickland, of Perth. As the beige-gowned
bride entered the chtjrch, friends slipped a
floral horse-shoe over her arm for luck.
Mrs. Forrester, though oh the road to re-
covery after a long illness, was unable to
accompany her husband to St. John s,
Toorak, to see their son Charles enter into
matrimony. However, his bride, Joan bin-
lay, called in on the way to the ceremony
to display her trappings to the invalid. The
church was crowded with social lights drawn
from country homes to see the bride, on the
arm of Robert Knox, trail her ivory and gold
draperies up the aisle. Major and Mrs.
George Landale and Mrs. W. J. T. Clarke,
from Macedon, the Jim Fairbairns and
Robert Landale and his wife, from their
Riverina squattage, were amongst the on-
lookers.
The Duke of Gloucester’s engagement to
Lady Angela Scott brings the Melbourne
Ryans (Surgeon and Knight “Charlie” was
known both sides of the Equator) near the
steps of the throne —by marriage. Admiral
Lord Charles Scott, at one time on the Aus-
tralian station, married Miss Ryan, a sister
of Surgeon “Plevna” Ryan. Mrs. Ellis
Rowan was another sister.
Miss Frank Aitken, of Equity Park, Birri-
gan, and Adrian Ritchie. Geelong, who have
so often been successful as partners in
golfing mixed foursomes, have decided upon a
matrimonial partnership.
The Victorian Housewives’ Association
stepped in during the just-over fruit season
of the Speck to help the fruit-growers
handle their glut. Finding that black cur-
rants would be the only variety to stand
transhipping, the members looked, round
for likely buyers, and four tons in good
condition were distributed, with profit to
the cultivators, who could find no sale for
tlie crop in Tasmania. It was McWilliams,
M.H.11., who put the plight of the fruit-
growers before the V.LI.A.
Taxi fares are likely to show a general de-
crease, for competition is growing keener.
On Saturday morning a new squad of cars,
known as the Town Taxis, made its appear-
ance. The newcomers are lemon yellow
picked out in green, and their rates are lower
than those of the older cos.
Amongst our visitors from Bananaland are
Mrs. Keith Hartridgo and her daughter
Ennys, who came from Roma to visit Mrs.
Hartridge’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. Leonard
Flannagan, at South Yarra, and spend a
season at the seaside. It is their intention
to stay until Easter draws nigh, when they
will go to Sydney to meet Dr. Keith Hart-
ridge, who will motor down from the north
for a holiday with his family.
Mi's. J. T. Hackett, who passed out in
London a few weeks ago, was recently laid
to rest in Boroondara Cemetery beside her
husband, who was buried there in 1924.
He died at Luxor, Egypt, and, as in the case
of his wife, his body was brought back for
Australian burial. James Thompson Hackett
was a lawyer with a literary and archmplo-
gical bent. He wrote on many subjects and
had a fine taste in art. After liis death his
widow settled in London, became an active
supporter of charities, and formed a large
circle of friends. Once upon a time he was
a law-partner'of J. C. Bray, an old-time
Premier of South Australia.
Dr. Fleming Dunstan’s wife, whose voice
is often heard on the concert platform in
the cause of charity, is running the gauntlet
of a series of tea parties between packing
for departure by the Otranto. A product
of the Albert-street Con., Mrs. Dunstan was
chosen for the chorus of a Melba grand opera
season in these parts. Recently tenor Walter
Kirby lias given her further tuition, and
extra polish abroad is one of the objects of
her sailing.
So many sailings are booked for members
of our social circle that Mrs. Campbell
Guest decided to give a lon voyage party to
a bunch of the departing ones at the Quamby
Club, where a luncheon was served in the
dining-room, decked with hollyhocks. Seated
at the hoard were Mrs. Herbert Hicks, off
on a tour abroad, and Mrs. Sam McKay and
Mrs. D. H. Ross, who, with their husbands,
presently board the Aorangi for Canada, with
Europe to follow. Mrs. Albion Walkley, who
is flitting in the Chitral; Mrs. John Gordon,
leaving by the Otranto next month ; Philip
Glass’s recently returned wife and Mrs.
Leonard Higgs were amongst the guests.
The hostess’s sister, Mrs. Alex. Cameron,
helped to transplant the assemblage to the
talkies, where the feast -was digested.


ďf
Jelly is the craze l
w<IF you share the fashion-
able craze for Jellies
here is a hint. A jelly is
the smart thing to serve:
serve it smartly. Ask your,
chinawarc dealer to send
you half-a-dozen of Shelley’s
Jelly Moulds in strong
white porcelain. Then your
jellies will always turn out
with the chosen shape
sharply defined—just as it
should be!
Ask to see rne LAresr
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
- China
Nursery Ware
by Lucie Attwell
c Hilda Cowham
DomesticWarje
Jelly Moulds
• fcITISH MAPI
IN CASE OP ANY DIFFICULTY IH OBTAINING
WHIT* TO
d
Legal Notices.
ABSTRACT OF CITATION.
TX) MARGARET LILLIAN GILES the
wife of Leonard Frederick Giles of the
City of Wellington Driver.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New Zea-
land at Wellington citing you to appear and
answer the Petition of Leonard Frederick
Giles . of the City of Wellington Driver
wherein he prays for a dissolution of his
marriage with you on the ground of desertion
and such citation intimates that in default of
your so doing the Court will proceed to hear
the said Petition and to pronounce sentence
therein nothwithstanding your absence NOW
THEREFORE TAKE NOTICE that for the
purpose aforesaid you are within thirty days
after the date cr this publication to attend in
person or by your Solicitor at the Supreme
Court Office of New Zealand at Wellington
and there to enter an appearance without
which you will not be allowed to address the
Court at any stage of the proceedings.
A copv of the said Citation and Petition
will be supplied to you ori your applying for
the same at the Supreme Court Office at
Wellington.
DATED this 12th day of February, 1929.
(L.s.) E. RHODES,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to her the foregoing
advertisement.
John Francis Barr Stevenson is the Soli-
citor for the Petitioner, whose address for
service is at the Offices of Messieurs Izard
Weston Stevenson and Castle, Solicitors,
Number 161 Featherston Street, Wellington,
New Zealand.
HTO FREDERICK AUSTIN formerly of
12 Mayfield Street Coburg Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife Louisa
May Austin has instituted proceedings
against you for divorce on the grounds of
bigamy with adultery and three years’ deser-
tion. Unless you enter an appearance in
the Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme
Court in Melbourne on or before the 21st
day of March 1929 the case may proceed in
your absence.
W E. PEARCEY and IVEY, 443 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for the
Petitioner.
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S : HIT THE DECK.
ROYAL: THE WRECKER.
CRITERION: THE PATSY.
PALACE: NEW BROOMS.
RICKARDS' TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
yH EATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
SHOWING NIGHTLY.
A NEW SHOW EVERY WEEK.
NELLIE BRAMLEY
COMPANY present
The highest class of play obtainable, at popular
prices.
The Royule Syncopatora Chase Gloom
from Dull Intervals.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
* MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S: THE DESERT SONG.
ROYAL:
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
MARGARET BANNERMAN in
THE MARIONETTES.
MEW COMEDY THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
RUTH NUGENT and ALLAN BUNCE in
PIGS.
ING 'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LEON GORDON in
THE FLYING SQUAD.
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
HER HONOR THE GOVERNOR.
With PAULINE FREDERICK.
ALSO
STAND AND DELIVER.
With ROD LA ROCQUE.
Public Notice.
TYPEWRITING.—NOVELS, SHORT STORIES, Etc.,
promptly and accurately typed. 1/6 per 1000 words.
Postal orders promptly attended. MISS CONSIDINE,
747 Rathdown Street, N. Carlton, Vic. ’Phone F 2337.
Grow New Hair
in 30 days
Six out of eight are bald or grey at 40 ; yet very,
few need be. The hair roots can be stimulated to
new life very quickly by a new scalp-invigorating
preparation known as “Vi-Glo.” This acts on the
growth and color cells much as rain acts on a
parched plant. So long as the hair roots and color
glands are not dead (and they rarely die), “Vi-Glo”
will show remarkable results, growing new, youthful
hair and restoring color to fading hair. Ask your
chemist for a 3/- package of “Vi-Glo” to-day, or
send 3/4 for outfit to Vi-Glorient Co., Kembla Build-
ing, Sydney, Satisfaction positively guaranteed.
CRAB
CAPTAIN
SELECTED
SPECIALLY
PLEASES HOSTESS AND VISITORS
ALIKE
RECiPEBOOK AT AIX GROCERS
PREE
“BhAfcKßlßtf
FOUNVP&N
Prices, 9/- upwards.
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
"THE WOMAN’S MIRROR/
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price 3d.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
This year’s regatta broke records for
entries, attendance and weather. Seen from
the top of the Domain the crowd made a
flower-bed effect of bright colors on the
ground. Two ’planes did a roaring trade in
15-minute passenger flights. The harbor was
intensely blue and full of craft of all sorts,
with the Australia looking very imposing
in their midst. Parked motors in hundreds
lined the road as far as Government House.
Rear-Admiral Hyde and the officers of the
Australia entertained a big party on board,
among the guests being Margaret O’Grady,
the Eardley Wilmots and the Cox Taylors.
Young folk danced to the music of the
ship’s band, and refreshments were served
on deck.
Thirty hostesses, with Alison Gray and
Betty Sale as secretaries, were responsible
for a dance at the Continental during race
week. The decorations, in black, gold and
sunset shades, with masses of gladioli, were
very effective. Margaret O’Grady was one
of the dancers, and a host of country folk,
among them the Jim Melroscs, the R. C.
Fields, the T. Fields, the Russell Ibbotts
and the George Gibsons, were there. Four
debs.—Nancy Guesdon, Betty Perkins, Nancy
Wardlaw and Margot Hutchison—were
launched. The Australia provided a big
contingent of dancing men.
Rear-Admiral Hyde opened the lately com-
pleted addition to our Y.M.C.A. buildings,
other notabilities present being President
A. T. Davis, Premier McPhcc and Bishop
Ilay. The new wing contains 250 beds, a
patrol-room, booking and parcels office, cloak-
room, lounge, reading-room and bathrooms :
so Jack ashore will be well provided for if
h e cares to sample Y Emma lodgings.
The Victoria League replenished its coffers
by means of a bridge party in the Eastern
room at the Continental, where 45 tables
were occupied. Prizes were given by the
Jones lady and Mrs. Astrella.
Artist Maude Priest, of S.A., with her
mother, lias been touring the Speck, and has
gone back with some charming sketches of
Port Arthur and other beauty spots in the
south.
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Every Jack has his Jill, but Mrs. T. J.
Ryan, widow of the former Premier of
Queensland, has both a .Tack and a Jill, and
it was to complete the education of her
son and daughter in Melbourne she left
Brisbane last week to make her home in
that city v while her son attends the Uni.
and her daughter goes to Mandeville Hall.
It wouhl require more than the fingers of
both hands to count the organisations and
committees of which Mrs. Ryan is a member
and on which
she has ren-
dered valuable
a s s i s t a nee,
both before
and since her
late husband’s
period of office.
One little in-
cident will
serve to show
why she is be-
loved. At a
particularly
swanky charity
ball, of which
she was the
chief engineer,
a small boy
employed by a
taxi co. to
summon vehi-
cles for the
guests was
discover ed
hovering around in the vestibule by a kind-
hearted committee-woman, and smuggled in
for supper. He did himself proud. Mrs.
Ryan, who was enjoying a cup of tea after a
wearing night, sat next to him at the table.
“What sort of a time have you been having,
son?” she asked in a friendly tone. “Great,”
said the youngster, earnestly. “I seen rhe
Governor an’ Mrs. Governor an all the
ladies an’ gents dancin’ an’ everythin’.”
“That’s very nice, looking on. But have you
had a dance yourself?” asked Mrs. Ryan
jokingly. “Well, I can dance,” said the kid,
“but nobody ain’t asked me.” “Too bad,”
said the lady; “I’ll find you a partner later
on.” The boy looked at her round-eyed.
“Gosh!” he said, “would you dance with
me?”_ “Of course I would,” said Mrs. Ryan
heartily, and thought no more about it.
But an hour later, when partners were being
chosen for the last-but-one dance, a small
hand plucked at her skirt and a small voice
piped up: “If we’re going to have that
dance, Missis, it’ll have to be this one, ’cause
I’ve got to go an’ call the taxis.” And Mrs.
Ryan made an excuse to her partner, a very
high dignitary, and fox-trotted with the smail
stranger within the gates.
After staying with the Rogersons, of Pike-
dale station, Sir John and Lady Goodwin
went on to J. H. S. Barnes’s place, Can-
ning Downs, near Warwick, and thence
home again to Brisbane.
Alderman Watson switched on the elec-
tricity with which the green has just been
provided at Hamilton Bowding Club. Victor
and Mrs. Day received the guests at the
entrance, Mrs. Day wearing saxe-blue crepe
de Chine, with mastic panels and bead
broideries. Summer blossoms decorated the
supper tables.
St. Augustine’s, Hamilton, was decorated
with palms, frangipanni and white water-
lilies for the marriage of George, son of the
late George Ainsworth and of Mrs. Ains-
worth, Kempsey (N.S.W.), to Marjorie, only
daughter of D. F. Maxwell and the late
Mrs. Maxwell. The bride was in ivory satin
and tulle. Her veil of Brussels net, lent by
Mrs. Eric MacTaggart, was bound with
orange-blossom buds. White water-lilies,
stephanotis and sweet-pea made the bouquet.
Mrs. Eric MacTaggart was matron of honor
and Grace Gordon and Marjorie Woodhouse,
in moss-rose pink with picture-brim pink
summer felt hats, ’maided. Their posies
were of pink roses and dahlias.
There was a dance on the Platypus, whose
quarter-deck was enclosed with flags and gay
with Chinese lanterns. Bowls of evergreens
made an imaginary garden border, and there
was a picture show on the starboard side for
those who didn’t care to shuffle their shoes.
The crews of submarines Otway and Oxley
were aboard.
To farewell Mrs. Vance Palmer, poetess
Emily Bulcock and Mabel Palmer spread the
tray-cloth at Albert House. Mrs. Palmer
wore black and white'voile with black cape-
line. and she gave an interesting chat on
walks by Glass House and Candle Mountains
and the North Coast district. Mauve and
purple asters were presented, and Winifred
Moore played the piano. Mrs. Bulcock was
in rose pink, and Mabel Palmer in sky-blue
mariette with Baku picture hat.
Heat and storms have filled our days, but
have not interfered with the many farewell
functions arranged for Mrs. Ryan. A civic
good-bye was given by Mayor and Mrs. Jolly
in the rooms of the Mayoress in the new
Town Hall. Mrs. Ryan was in black; Mrs.
Jolly in rose beige.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
There was a big family gathering at Nan-
nup to witness Ethel Brockman and George
Eger ton-Warburton exchange vows in All
Saints’. The
bridal gown
was a shim-
mer of ivory
satin, with a
long train.
The veil,
which was
worn by the
bride’s grand-
mother at her
wedding, was
of Limerick-
lace. The four
’maids, Erica
Patterson,
Edna Hunter,
Teddy Brock-
man and Jean
McGregor,
chose lengthy
frocks of apri-
cot tulle em-
bellished with
satin bands
and trails of golden flowers. Bardwell
Clarke’s camera snapped the bride’s smile.
The honeymoon rises at Colombo.
A present to the State on the occasion of
its hundredth birthday has been hung in the
Perth Gallery. It is a picture by G. Pitt
Morison of the scene enacted 100 years ago
in the naming of Perth. In the group are
Governor Stirling, Captain Dance, of the
ship Sulpher, and his wife, who was the
only _ woman brave enough to penetrate “so
far into a savage country,” and a group
of officers and soldiers. Mrs. Dance is de-
picted holding an axe with which she per-
formed the christening ceremony by knocking
a chip out of a jarrah-tree.
A youthful maid who has just announced
her engagement is Eva, fourth daughter of
the Willie Saws, of Bellevue-terrace. Her
fiancd is Harold Casson. whom she met
abroad a year ago. Wedding bells will ring
in England about August. Gwen McCallum,
lately returned from a jaunt to the Straits
Settlements and the F.M.S., brought with
her a diamond trinket slipped on her finger
by Fred Waterhouse, of Singapore. Another
recent engagement is that of Mary Stuart
and Sydney Wheatley, of Bridgetown.
The Runic’s sailing being delayed, exhi-
bition matches were played at Kitchener
Park between English visiting tennis players
and local stars, and some social doings were
squeezed into the two extra days.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Nervous prostration as the aftermath of
the Test match and a thermometer that is
by no means prostrate have reduced us to
our lowest ebb socially. The Amateur Turf
Club has seldom had so small a meeting, and
wide-brimmed hats, sunshades and fans testi-
fied to the temperature. Mrs. J. H. Morish,
whose husband is acting-chairman, hostessed
the luncheon in black crepe de Chine and a
small black hat; Miss Ruth Hope was in
cool blue and white and Mrs. J. M. Toll
in mauve and grey.
Racegoers have been busy farewelling the
Leslie Aldridges, who have followed their
horses and their household gods to their
new home in Vic. Mrs. W. J. Masson gave
a luncheon at the Richmond for Mrs. Ald-
ridge, and half a dozen of their friends were
joint hosts at a dinner at the South.
From Egypt comes news of the Cecil
Brays’ daughters, installed in a flat in
Heliopolis for the next few months.
Beatrice Chettle, who has made South
Australia her home for the last five years,
is off to England for a year’s sketching and
painting. She plans to come back, and
meanwhile a couple of her water-colors in
the Gallery will keep her memory fresh here.
The Eastern Extension Sports gave a
flannel dance at the Toorak Bowling Club-
house. Cuthbert Wells headed the com-
mittee, and his wife and two daughters, with
Mrs. B. Campbell, saw to the supper.
Dancing was on the verandahs.
Mrs. Leonard Marriott has given a couple
of parties to welcome home her family—
afternoon tea for her mother and her friends,
and bridge the next evening for her sisters
and the younger set.
There was an appreciative muster of
feminine relatives at the Oval for Old Col-
legians’ Day, when ex-champions from St.
Peter’s and Prince Alfred’s Colleges met
again m bowls, tennis and cricket. Reds
romped ahead in tennis and won bowls at
the last breathless moment. Cricket was a
draw.


>#-y 9 .
ff :J VNo Hotel in Adelaide
dfd
No Hotel in Adelaide
, gives such comfort
at small cost. Oppo-
site Railway Station.
Close to theatres and
shopping. 300 rooms
and 100 bathrooms.
Yale locks on every
door. Excellent ser-
vice throughout.
Write for Tariff.
cAhelatdes Finest Unlicensed Jiotel
Opp. Railway Sfn.North Terrace. PhoneCenh4o4l.
For 136 years
Rowland’s Macassar Oil has been a favorite
dressing for the hair. Its close resemblance
to the natural oil has caused it to be used
more and more as something better than a
hair dressing. It keeps the hair healthy, and
prevents the encroachment of greyness and
baldness.
cs
R m)
land’s
fP^aiassarCMl
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.1.,
ENGLAND. c.t.P.65
Of all Chemists.
Stores and Hair-
dressers. Red rot
dark hair; golden
for fair or grey
hair.
BUILT I' THE ECLIPSE.
By- R .EXON BUTHCART
“Built i’ th ’ eclipse, and rigged with curses
dark.”
IT was a repulsive old liag, with a nose
whose hue bespoke unmistakably the
source of its owner’s confidential attitude,
who sowed the first seed of doubt and super-
stition in the not unfertile soil. Every sailor
is superstitious, some more so, some less;
and Captain Henry Risdon himself would
have been the first to admit that he was more
so. For Irish blood flowed in his veins, and
had flowed in the veins of liis seafaring
ancestors, and the combination was at times
overpowering. No wonder, then, that a sud-
den chill prickled its way down his spine as
the vinous voice assailed his ear.
“A hell ship that one, mister,” the old
hag crooned, swaying against his shoulder.
“She's hoodoo —‘built in the eclipse,’ as they
say—and may the mercy of the Lord go with
them as sails on her.”
The old hag hiccoughed gently, almost
apologetically, and, before Risdon had recov-
ered from the spell of the words, she had
teetered off in the direction of the waterfront
wine-liouse near by.
“Damn you!” he muttered as he watched
the bedraggled figure negotiate successively
the gutter, the pavement and the swing door.
“Damn you—and what the devil did she
mean by the eclipse?” he asked himself mus-
ingly as he waited the arrival of the dinghy
which had put off from the rusty vessel lying
at anchor in the roadstead.
Then he shrugged. AVhat did it matter,
anyway? It was too late now to back out
even if he could have afforded such a step.
He had not been keen on the tub right from
the beginning, but it had been that or going
back to a lower rating. And no man who
lias occupied the number-one stateroom cares
to step back into number two or even, as
some had to do, into number three. Better
to be in command of two thousand tons than
first mate of ten. That was the attitude in
which Henry Risdon, after thirteen weeks
in hospital, had approached the shipping
agents in search of anew berth.
First-officerships there had been for him
-—the agents were all anxious to get him as
such—but lie had shaken a regretful head.
It was too much of a step-down, he had told
them. Better to start again on a smaller
vessel; better to step down in tonnage rather
than in rank.
“Why don’t you try Sam Willas, then?”
one of them suggested. “I hear he’s com-
missioning the Austral Cross again. She’s
only two thousand-odd, though.”
“I’ll try him,” Risdon replied gratefully.
“I suppose I’m too darned independent, but I
can’t fancy playing second fiddle after ten
years of first.”
Sam Willas was glad to get hold of a man
like Risdon, and he made no bones about it,
either.
“I’m mighty glad to get you,” he said with
unexpected frankness. “The old Cross hasn’t
any too savory a reputation, you know.
Nothing in it, really. But she’s broken a
propeller shaft or two and hit once or twice.”
Then he leaned forward confidentially. “She’s
been a damned loser right through, if you
want to know,” he said frankly. “And if
she doesn’t make a go of it this time I’m
going to write her off.”
Not a cheery prospect, admittedly; and if
circumstances had been other than desper-
ately lean it is doubtful if Risdon would have
gone on with it. As it was, he signed the
papers with almost a light heart, and failed
to note the gleam of relief in his employer’s
eye as the agreement was blotted.
Followed two strenuous weeks of outfit-
ting, and Henry Risdon found that Willas
as a prospective employer and Willas as an
actual employer were two different things.
The boilers needed new condenser tubes; the
automatic steering gear was on its last legs;
and the casing of the propeller shaft was
paper-thin in parts. But to all these reports
Willas had the one answer:
“Patch ’em up as best you can. I’m not
spending money on her until this trip’s over.
Then, if she’s right, we’ll go ahead and do
the thing properly.”
“But she’s not safe in rough weather,”
Risdon protested on one occasion.
“Well, if you’re scared,” Willas retorted,
*gct another berth. I don’t want a captain
jf mine to have less guts than I have. And
just to prove it, I’m travelling across on her
myself this trip. I want to see at first hand
how she stands up.”
That, of course, put an end to Risdon’s
appeals for replacements. If Willas vetoed
them, and yet was ready to sail on her him-
self, there was nothing to be done but make
the best of things and patch wherever pos-
sible.
As to paint, Willas was immovable. What
•was the good of wasting paint when she
might never run again after this trip? It
was an argument Risdon found unanswerable ;
but that did not make her appearance any
the less undesirable, and he found himself
staring at the rusty sides of his command
with undisguised disgust as the dinghy drew
near.
Then, as he stepped into the tiny boat
and was rowed out towards the Austral
Cross, he made an effort to dismiss the air
of unrest that had hung over him like a
pall since the old hag's speech with him.
Luckily there would not be much time for
gloomy cogitations during the next few days,
for he was coming aboard now with his
owner’s instructions to move into the dock
space made ready for him, and take aboard
the cargo waiting there.
With an effort he threw off his supersti-
tions, and, as he took the bridge, his eyes
were sparkling, and his voice, as he gave the
up-anchoring orders, was eager and resonant.
It was good to be afloat again, even in the
Austral Cross!
* * * *
That the Austral Cross was still laboring
under her hoodoo was made unpleasantly
clear on their second day wharfside.
A brand-new steel cable on the forward
winch snapped as it was swinging across a
load of pig-iron—snapped as if it
had been a bit of string—and let
its burden down with a rushing
thud that almost drowned the shrill
screaming of the winch as it raced,
weight-freed, until the ap-
palled donkeyman could turn
off the steam.
It was all over in ten
seconds, but in that
time it was all over,
too, so far as one un-
lucky wharfinger was
concerned — he had
been standing directly
underneath the load.
And a second victim,
hit by the lashing end
of cable, was breath-
ing very shallowly by
the time the ambu-
lance had back-
ed against the
rusty plates of
the Austral
Cross.
Not unnatu-
rally. the blood
of Henry Ris-
don was chilled
by the accident.
“ God,” he said to his first mate, a young
fellow by the name of Smithers, and a gentle-
man to boot —“God, it’s started already! The
damn ship’s hoodoo, and nothing’ll put it
right. You can’t get the taint out of her.
They’re all the same. Once the spell’s on
them it stays—until they go down.”
Tom Smithers tried to jolly his skipper
out of the blues. “Don’t you believe it, sir,”
he urged. “Once we get away from port
she’ll be a different ship. She’s never had
a decent chance before. I’ve heard all the
gossip about her in the last two or three
days, and from what one hears it’s a case
of giving a dog a bad name.” _
But Risdon was not so optimistic. “I hope
you’re right,” he said wistfully. “But some-
thing tells me we’re sailing straight for
trouble —with a capital T.”
The young chief laughed. “We may be
sailing for it,” he said. “But I believe the
owner’s got it!”
“What’s that?” . , ,
Smithers raised his eyebrows. You ve
heard, surely?”
Captain Risdon lifted his head inquiringly.
“Why, it’s all over the town,” the other
said. “And they say we’ll be lucky if we ever
get our screw. Although I don’t think it’s
as bad as that. But Mr. Willas has been
speculating pretty unluckily lately—he
should have stuck to shipping. Wheat I
believe it was. A pal of mine belongs to
the same club as W T illas. They’re saying up
there that he’s coming with us so he’ll
be further away when the storm breaks!
Still,” he went on optimistically, “they
think the old Cross might save things; and
if she can, we’ll help her to it, won’t we? ’
Henry Risdon nodded, but his face did not
light up at the other’s buoyancy. The news,
coming so soon on top of the old witch’s
croakings, had set him brooding more
gloomily than ever on the prospects of the
trip.
At the end of six days at sea even the
pessimism of Henry Risdon began to lift a
little. He had crossed the Tasman many
times in his career, but he had never seen
it in quite such a docile mood as it was this
trip. It was as though the fates had benevo-
lently conspired to counteract, if not indeed
to oust, the hoodoo of the Austral Cross.
Hour after hour, day after day, the horizon
slipped back before their advance, always
to discover an ocean as calm and as blue,
basking beneath skies as azure and as warm
as those they were putting behind them.
As for Willas, he went about with a per-
petual grin on his face, and three or four
times a day would slap the taciturn captain
on the back, and tell him that the barometer
was still rising.
“I’ll be a rich man still if only the weather
holds!” he said more than once. “What
price the hoodoo now, eh?”
But Henry Risdon, who knew the Tasman,
refused to count his chickens too soon. Once,
when he shook his head and remarked that
there were more sudden storms in the Tas-
man than had ever come out of it yet, Willas
started, and his voice sounded anxious as he
protested against such gloomy prophecy.
As the end of the voyage drew in sight he
took to haunting the wireless room.
“Can’t understand it,” Sparks said to Ris-
don one day. “The blighter seems more in-
“The sailors, as they rested on
their oars, watched the chief as he
stood up, the better to distinguish
the signals.”
terested in the weather than in his damned
old wheat!” The wireless operator on board
the Austral Cross enjoyed privileges that
were denied his colleagues on the passenger
liners, and he was a frequent visitor to the
skipper’s stateroom.
“And so would you be,” Risdon returned
grimly. “Here’s something you didn’t know
before. We’re half an inch under the.Plim-
soll, and there’s not a drop of water in the
tanks.”
Sparks’s jaw dropped. The Austral Cross
had been built for the coastwise timber trade
in America, and in each bulkhead she had
three large ballast tanks, operated by valves
leading direct to the ocean. In her palmy
days sire had been intended for running each
return journey in heavy ballast, and the
tanks were the quickest and cheapest means
of supplying this. That meant that she had
no come and go on this trip. By rights those
tanks should have been at least half full
for a Tasman passage, so that at a pinch
they could have been emptied if the seas
were heavy enough to threaten her. Laden
low with a dead-weight cargo such as she
was carrying, it seemed to Sparks that it was
tempting Providence to have the tanks empty.
“And so it is,” the skipper agreed. “By
God, I’m still sorry I ever stepped aboard
the damned hell-boat!”
“Never mind,” Sparks laughed reassur-
ingly. “The gamble’s coming off all right.
Weather reports are wonderful from all
quarters. We couldn’t find a blow this side
of South America in the next week.”
The next morning at breakfast young
Smithers, the chief, announced triumphantly
that they should raise Stewart Island not
later than noon on the following day.
Willas looked inquiringly at Risdon. The
skipper nodded and a twirk of joy plucked
at the angles of his mouth.
“That’s so,” he agreed. “Looks as though
we’re going to make it all right, after all.”
“And the weather” Willas was eyeing
Sparks eagerly, strangely eagerly the young
chief thought to himself—“is it going to hold
out?”
‘Sure! Bet my last bean on it.”
Willas gave a sigh of relief that was
obvious to everyone. Again the young chief
xooked at him curiously. There* was some-
thing about the other's attitude that he could
not understand. And when, later on that
morning, lie broached the subject to the
skipper, Risdon was of the same mind.
“Perhaps it’s his losses on the market,” the
captain suggested. “Sparks was saying that
wheat’s going down and down. He gets the
reports every day, of course.”
“You wouldn’t think that the money he’ll
get out of this trip ’d make up for all he’s
supposed to have risked in wheat,” Smithers
said in a puzzled voice. “But I suppose
it’s more a matter of credit than cash. That’s
what high finance is supposed to be, isn't
it?”
Risdon nodded. “I believe so,” he answered
briefly. “But it’s over my head.”
And it was obvious, to Smithers that he
was not very interested in the question. The
problem of his own finances, and the bene-
ficial effect thereon that the safe arrival in
port of the Austral Cross would have, was
of greater importance at the moment.
* * * *
If ever a man was inclined to shake his
head and mutter a gloomy “I told you so” it
was Captain Henry Risdon when he stood,
in the cold grey light of dawn, on the bridge
of the Austral Cross watching the last boat
put off in safety from the heavily-listing
vessel.
They had called him ten minutes earlier.
But by then it had been too late. The ocean
was pouring into the vitals of the Austral
Cross at the rate of thousands of gallons
an hour —just for how long it had been
doing so no one seemed to know. Appa-
rently the first warning had been given from
the engine-room when the flood suddenly
appeared above the stokehold floor, rising
with the grim relentlessness that is the
special property of the sea when bent on
mischief. How the second, who had been on
the bridge, had failed to notice the difference
in buoyancy long before was a problem at
the moment defying elucidation. But the
stark fact remained. The Austral Cross was
going down. The hoodoo had held.
The young chief was calling to the skipper,
urging him to come off; but it was of no
avail. Henry Risdon shook his head dourly.
The Austral Cross was done—so was he.
There was no cowardice in taking this way
out; every tradition of the sea was behind
him in his decision.
“Put away, Mr. Smithers!” he ordered.
“Put away before the suction gets you! You
are risking human life!”
But it was the expression in his captain’s
voice, not the words he spoke, that caused
the young chief to shrug miserably and give
the order to get under way. He sat in the
stern sheets, gazing back at the Austral
Cross as she wallowed low in the water, her
main deck barely clearing the calm surface.
Willas was saying something, but he took no
heed. His consciousness was all for the soli-
tary figure that stood on the bridge waiting.
Then at length he wrenched his eyes away
and sat staring rigidly ahead of him. and
the tears that welled slowly over his lashes
brought him no sense of shame.
It was one of the rowers who, ten
minutes later, brought him back to startled
consciousness.
“Cap’n seems to be signalling,” the man
said, nodding over the chief’s shoulder.
“Lay to a minute, boys,” Smithers said,
but in no happy tone. It could be but one
message—a last word of parting.
The sailors, as they rested on their oars,
watched the chief as he stood up the better
to distinguish the signals.
“Wisht I knew Morse,” Stroke whispered
to his neighbor as the minutes passed. It
was a lengthy message evidently, and the
chief seemed to have altered somehow in his
attitude. There was a suggestion of tense-
ness about him that stirred the men’s feelings
to an odd excitement.
Suddenly the chief’s own arms began to
wave. But only the one motion they gave;
then they were still again, and he was shad-
ing his eyes in an endeavor to counteract
the glare of the rising sun.
“That was the ‘repeat,’_ anyway,” Stroke’s
neighbor whispered back in an eager tone.
Another three minutes passed.
Then, suddenly, the chief turned on them,
his eyes gleaming.
“Boys”—his own voice was boyish in its
eagerness—“ Boys, the skipper says she’s
not got any deeper! The water hasn’t risen
for ten minutes or more! He thinks the
leak’s stopped. He wants us back-
are you game to take a chance?”
A cheer was his answer. But almost before
it had died Willas, sitting in the bow, spoke
angrily, edgily.
“Ridiculous ! She’s a total loss ! I forbid
you to go back! You can’t risk lives like
that!”
An angry chorus of protest rose from the
men at the oars. The chief quelled it witt
a gesture.
“I’ll tell Captain Risdon what you say,”
he snapped at Willas.
(Concluded on page


A Copy of this Prospectus has been filed with the Registrar-General in compliance with Section 87 of the Companies Act 1915.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
GOLDEN WASHED SAND, LIMITED
{lncorporated under the Companies Act 1915 of the State of Victoria.)
NOMINAL CAPTAL: £50,000, divided into 50,000 Shares of £1 each.
50,000 shares of £1 each are now offered for subscription, payable 5/- per share on application, 5/- per share on allotment, balance in calls of 2/6 per share when
and as required.
The whole of the issue has been underwritten FIRM by Federal Mutual Finance and Securities, Ltd., 51 William Street, Melbourne.
A Brokerage of 6d. per share will be paid by the Company (out of the underwriters’ remuneration) in respect to allotments on applications made through
members of recognised Stock Exchanges or authorised Agents.
DIRECTORS:
DAVID COLLINS, Broker, 51 William Street, Melbourne.
ARTHUR KLEINFIELD, Investor, 7 Arundel Flats, Commercial Road, Melbourn
MICHAEL JOHN O’HANLON, Agent, 237 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
W. RUPERT SHIELS, Bank of Commerce Chambers, 325 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
BANKERS:
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LTD., 337 Collins Street, Melbourne.
AUDITOR:
WILBUR MEAGHER, Public Accountant, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne.
It is intended to make application to the Stock Exchange of Melbourne to list the shares of the Company for quotation.
OBJECTS.
The Company is being formed to acquire from the Vendors, The Commercial and General Investment
Trust Pty., Ltd., of 405-07 Collins Street, Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, all their right, title and
interest in an agreement with Michael John O’Hanlon, of 237 Collins Street, Melbourne, in the said State,
and Eily Erina O’Hanlon, of 29 Normandy Road, Elwood, in the said State, who
(1) are the registered proprietors of the freehold of an extensive sand deposit situated at Cranbourne,
in the State of Victoria, and
(2) are the holders of allotment rights from the State Rivers and Water Supply Commission for the
State of Victoria, to whom a royalty of 3d. per ton is payable, to remove and market sand from
the K'oo-wee-rup Main Canal from Cora Lynn to a point approximately about three and a half
miles upward along the canal.
and to equip and work these properties.
PURCHASING CONSIDERATION.
The purchase consideration is £lO,OOO cash, to be paid to Michael John O’Hanlon and Eily Erina
O’Hanlon, who have agreed to apply for 10,000 of the shares in the Capital of the Company being
offered for subscription, and £7500 to be paid to the Vendors, who have undertaken to discharge all
liabilities at present existing on the properties. Full terms and conditions are set out in the purchase
agreement, which can be inspected at the Office of the Company’s solicitors at any time during the usual
business hours.
A Royalty of 3d. per ton has to be paid to the State Rivers and Water Supply Commission for all sand
taken from the Canal.
FREEHOLD PROPERTY AT CRANBOURNE.
Situation and Description of Property.
The property, comprising 156 acres, sections 21a, 21c, 21d and 21e, Parish of Sherwood, County of
Mornington, is situated on the main South Gippsland Road, approximately one mile from Cranbourne
Post Office, and about one and three-quarter miles from the South Gippsland Railway Line, IN THE
HEART OF THE “SAND” BELT, where other Companies are successfully and profitably operating.
There is a four-roomed residence and outbuildings on the property, which is surrounded by a netting
fence.
The property has been bored, and fully and favorably reported upon by Mr. James T. Knox, C.E., of
516 Collins Street, Melbourne, who is well qualified by experience both in Australia and America to
report on a property of this description. His full report can be inspected at the Registered Office of
the Company.
The whole of the 156 acre* was alienated from the Crown prior to 1892, and, therefore, there is no
necessity to pay Mineral Lease Rents or Royalties, which would amount to over £2 per acre per annum.
About 116 acres consist of finest quality sand, of all classes. The deposits range from sft. to unknown
depths. Bores have been put down to 23ft. without finding bottom, at which depth they were stopped
owing to water and drifting sand.
The sand is suitable for all classes of concrete work, and the finest white grade has been sold for glass
manufacturing. The bores disclose that there is about 1,000,000 tons of white sand available above
water level, and show that below water level the sand is also white.
QUANTITY OF SAND. —The minimum quantity of sand as ascertained by thorough borings by Mr. J.
T. Knox is 2,469,500 TONS, but it is estimated that considerablv greater quantities of sand exist at
lower depths. BUT EVEN THIS QUANTITY, WITH AN ESTIMATED OUTPUT OF 300 TONS PER
DAY, WOULD PROVIDE A SOURCE OF SUPPLY FOR 30 YEARS.
QUALITY OF SAND. —Samples of sand taken from the bores were chemically tested by Mr. Knox, and
found to be suitable for concrete and all other classes of work. The whole of the sand to be handled
and sent out will be WASHED AND GRADED, SO THAT THERE WILL NOT BE A PURER OR
BETTER SAND PUT ON THE MARKET IN THE STATE. Unwashed sand from the property has been
tested by the Melbourne and Metropolitan Tramways Board for concrete purposes, and gave the best
pressure test results of any sand tested. It was also tested by the Melbourne City Council, and found
to be of exceptionally high quality for road surfacing.
It should be particularly noted that, owing to the superabundance of fresh water available for washing,
the Company will always be in a position to deliver washed sand, thus surmounting one of the greatest
difficulties experienced in securing suitable sand for concrete and kindred uses.
PLANT.—Mr. J. T. Knox has undertaken to contract to design and equip and instal a plant capable of
treating and handling up to 600 tons per day, delivering the sandjnto bins over the siding at the pits.
The cost of the complete installation would be £4500. Mr. Knox will also provide an aerial ropeway
to convey the sand a distance of one and three-quarter miles to the main railway line, and erect storage
bins to hold 200 to 300 tons of sand, for £4OOO, or a full-gauge line can be constructed connecting
with the railway line at Narrewarren Road (a distance of 65 chains) for about £4ooo—possibly less.
For siding and truck accommodation another £l5OO is allowed, making a total in all of £lO,OOO for
plant.
ESTIMATED PROFITS.—Mr. Knox estimates that the cost of excavating sand, conveying to tower,
washing, grading and finally depositing in hoppers at siding ready for loading into railway trucks will
be Bd. per ton. This allows for depreciation, renewals and repairs. The selling price of this sand is
3/- per ton on Jailway trucks at the Company’s siding, and, at this price, would find a READY MARKET
and leave a profit of 2/4 per ton; but taking only 2/- per top profit and an output of 300 tons per day
(although provision is made to handle up to 600 tons per day), with a working year of 280 days,
would GIVE A PROFIT OF £B4OO PER ANNUM.
ALLOTMENT RIGHTS—KOO-WEE-RUP MAIN CANAL.
DESCRIPTION. —The concession from the State Rivers and Water Supply Commission gives the sole
right to excavate and market sand from the Koo-wee-rup main canal for a distance of 31 miles from
Cora Lynn upwards. This is the highest section from which the Commission will allow sand to be
excavated, so the COMPANY WILL HAVE THE BENEFIT OF ALL SAND COMING DOWN THE
CANAL. Supplies are almost inexhaustible, and the Commission’s engineers state that hundreds of
thousands of tons are annually canied down the canal from the sandhills further inland. The depth
of sand at present lying in the channel is approximately 5 to 7 feet. It is anticipated that at least
300 TONS OF WASHED quartz sand or gravel, ranging from quarter-inch downwards to fine, can be
taken out DAILY. The concession is 41 miles from the Tynong Railway Station, and it is proposed to
lay a tramline from the plant site to this station.
THIS SAND IS ACCOUNTED THE FINEST CONCRETE MATERIAL IN THE STATE, AND ALSO
IDEAL FOR BITUMEN WORK.
PLANT.—Mr. J. T. Knox undertakes to provide plant for excavating the sand from the canal, capable
of handling 500 to 600 tons per day, and grading and delivering into hoppers on the bank over the
tramline or railway, also storage-bins at the Tynong Railway Station, with facilities to store about 150
tons at a cost of £3OOO. The cost of laying down tramline to Tynong Railway Station would be
£3500. This includes engine and rolling stock, etc. The total cost, therefore, of equipping this
property would be £6500.
ESTIMATED PROFITS. —The selling price of this class of sand is 4/6 per ton on trucks Tynong Raliway
Station, and cost per ton, aHowing for depreciation, repairs, i-enewals and royalty, etc., would be 1/-
per ton, leaving a profit of 3/6 per ton, but allowing a margin for safety in computing estimated profits,
and taking the profit at 3/- per ton, with an output of 300 tons per day, with a working year of
280 days, would GIVE A PROFIT OF £12,600 PER ANNUM.
SALES.
A matter which is receiving a great deal of attention from the Municipal Authorities) and Architects
is the question of the quality of sand to be used in concrete construction work, and from inquiries
made it has been ascertained that if a continuous supply of washed sand were available it would be
specified. This Company will BE IN A POSITION TO SUPPLY THIS NEED.
Some of the Municipal Councils in the month of June call for tenders for a 12-months’ supply; others
only draw supplies as required; and a highly qualified Sales Manager will take charge of this portion of
the Company’s activities, as weH as managing the city depot which it is proposed to establish.
SUMMARY.
The Company is acquiring two very valuable sand properties. Sand pits in close proximity to Melbourne
are becoming rapidly worked out, and, as the use of sand is becoming more general every dav, both in
BITUMEN ROAD CONSTRUCTION (which requires a hard, coarse sand such as is available' from the
canal property) and almost unlimited possibilities in CONCRETE WORK of all classes, including road
construction, it can be readily seen that the investment now offered is a very sound one.
The Cranbourne property, with an output of 300 TONS per day (on which the estimated profits are
based) has a proved life of 30 years, and supplies in the canal are being constantly renewed; and it is
therefore not possible to give any limit to the life of this property.
There are also 40 acres of the Cranbourne property which have not been taken into account, nor has
the sand below water-level been counted upon in calculating the quantities of marketable sand available.
PROFITS
ORANBOURNE PROPERTY.
Output, 300 tons per day for 280 days per year—B4,ooo tons, profit 2/- per ton .. .. £8,400
CANAL PROPERTY.
Output, 300 tons per day for 280 days per year—B4,ooo tons, profit 3/- per ton ..£12,600
Total GROSS PROFIT . . ' £21,000
Less Office expenses—Directors’ Fees, Taxation, Secretary, Office Sales Manager, Sundries . 6,000
£16,000
which, on the issued capital, is equal to 32 per cent.
This return will enable the Directors' each year to allocate a substantial amount to a sinking fund for
the redemption of capital, and still enable them to pay a handsome return on the invested capital.
In accordance with the Companies Act 1915 the following information is embodied in this Prospectus
and forms part of it: —•
(a) A copy of the Memorandum of Association of the Company is attached hereto.
(b) The number of shares fixed by the Articles of Association as the qualification of a Director is
100 shares.
(c) Tho following are the provisions of the Articles as to the remuneration of Directors: The
remuneration of the Directors shall from time to time be determined by the Company in general
meeting.
(d) The names, addresses and descriptions of Directors are set forth above.
(e) The minimum subscription on which the Directors may proceed to allotment is five shares of
£1 each, payable 5/- per share on application and 5/- per share on allotment.
(f) No shares have been agreed to be issued as fully or partly paid up otherwise than in cash.
(g) The name and address of the Vendor of the assets proposed to be acquired by the Company, and
which are to be paid for out of the proceeds of the issue offered for subscription by this
Prospectus, is The Commercial and General Investment Trust Proprietary, Limited, of 405
Collins Street, Melbourne. The amount payable to the Vendor is £17,500 in cash. Of this
amount £lO,OOO is payable by the Vendor to Michael John O’Hanlon and Eily Erina O’Hanlon,
both of 29 Normandy Road, Elwood, who are the original vendors to the said Commercial and
General Investment Trust Proprietary, Limited, of the said assets proposed to be acquired, and
the said Commercial and General Investment Trust Proprietary, Limited, lias undertaken out
of the balance of the said cash amount, namely, £7,500, to discharge the existing encumbrances
upon tho said assets amounting to approximately £2,500. The said Michael John O’Hanlon
and Eily Erina O’Hanlon have agreed to subscribe for 10,000 shares in the capital of the
Company now offered for subscription, and to pay for the same in full in cash. A royalty
of 3d. per ton is payable to the State Rivers and Water Supply Commission for all sand taken
from the canal, comprised in the allotment rights held by the said Michael John O’Hanlon and
Eily Erina O’Hanlon.
(h) Particulars of the assets proposed to be acquired are set out in this Prospectus.
(i) No amount is payable for goodwill.
(j) The amount payable for commission for subscribing or agreeing to subscribe or procuring or
agreeing to procure subscriptions for shares in the Company is ten per cent.
(k) The amount or estimated amount of preliminary expenses, including advertising and publication
and circulation of the Prospectus is £1,300.
(l) Of the Directors Mr. Michael John O’Hanlon is interested in the property proposed to be
acquired by the Company to the extent that he is the owner thereof jointly with the said Eily
Erina O’Hanlon. To the said owners there is to be paid the beforementioned sum of £lO,OOO.
Messrs. A. Itleinfield and David Collins are Directors and Shareholders of Federal Mutual Finance
and Securities, Limited, who have underwritten the issue of shares now offered for subscription.
(m) The dates of and parties to every material contract are: —
1. Agreement dated 10th January, 1929 —Michael John O’Hanlon and Eily Erina O’Hanlon of
the one part and The Commercial and General Investment Trust Proprietary, Limited, of
the other part.
2. Agreement dated 31st January, 1929 —The Commercial and General Investment Trust Pro-
prietary, Limited, of the one part and William James Fullerton, as trustee for the Company,
of the other part.
3. Agreement dated the 4th day of February, 1929, between The Commercial and General
Investment Trust Proprietary, Limited, of the first part, William James Fullerton of the
second part, and the Company of the third part, adopting the agreement mentioned in
paragraph 2.
4. Underwriting agreement dated the 4th day of February, 1929, between Federal Mutual
Finance and Securities, Limited, of the one part and the Company of the other part.
The above agreements may be inspected at the offices of the Company’s Solicitor, William
J. Fullerton, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. on the usual
business days.
(n) All the shares of the Company are of one class.
DATED this Sixth day of February, 1929.
n. COLLINS
A. KLKINFIELD
M. .. O’HANLON
Provisional
Directors.
GOLDEN WASHED SAND, LTD.
(.Incorporated under the Companies Act 1915 of the State of Victoria.)
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To the Secretary,
GOLDEN WASHED SAND, LIMITED,
3.2. > Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Dear Sir, —
I hereby make application for Shares of £1 each in GOLDEN
WASHED SAND, LTD., in terms of the Company’s Prospectus, for which I enclose
£ , being 3s. per share application money; and I agree to pay ss.
per share on allotment, and the balance in calls not exceeding 2s. 6d. per share as and when
required.
I hereby agree to accept the above number of shares or such less number as the Directors
may allot me, and I further agree to be bound by the Company’s Memorandum and Articles
of Association.
Dated this day of 1929.
Signature
Full Name
Address . . .
Postal District No.
Occupation
All remittances must be made payable to “Golden Washed Sand, Limited,” and should
be made payable “To Order” and marked “Not Negotiable.” Exchange must be added to
Country or Interstate remittances.


ďf
&
NOTHING TO P&Y-
-/F IT FAILS!
CERTAIN special substances combined with yeast will produce a definite change from weakness and
ill-health to Glowing Youth and Vigor with phenomenal Rapidity—lN SOME CASES VIRTUALLY
IN A FEW HOURS—This is the sensational Medical Discovery of Modern Times. This health-
combination will stop aches, pains and depression almost INSTANTLY, giving an immediate feeling of fresh,
re-vitalised exhilaration! Such a success has naturally produced numerous “patent” yeast and yeast-vitamine
tonics; but none of these can compare in any way to genuine “CREAM OF YEAST,” which is undoubtedly
the greatest quick tonic pick-me-up and re-vitaliser known!
THE RESULTS ARE STARTLING!
CREAM OF YEAST—
Relieves Headaches and Neuralgia in 4
minutes.
Relieves Influenza, Colds, Rheumatism,
etc., within 15 hours.
Relieves Sour Stomach, Acidity, Gas-
tritis and Indigestion in 3 minutes.
Gives marked increase of Forceful Vigor
in 15 minutes.
Relieves Depression and Brain Fag in 8
minutes.
Clears System of harmful poisonous wastes
in 12 hours.
Relieves Periodical Pains in 12 minutes.
Steadies and calms the Nerves in 10
minutes.
Clears Boils, Pimples and Eruptions within
2 days.
Glorious New Health!
It has been proven that the brain, nerves and blood
need certain vital substances.
These substances, combined with vitamines, form
the foundation of Health ' and Strength—even of
Life itself l Without this combination perfect health
is impossible! Yeast contains an element of amaz-
ing restorative and life-giving power— but certain
types of yeast are almost useless! The value of the
right kind of yeast, in combination with other sub-
stances, is clearly shown by “Cream of Yeast.”
See, when you take it, aches and pains vanish; watch
sickness disappear; see how quickly the nerves be-
come steady ; how, instead of being always weak and
tired out, you regain splendid zest, vitality and
youthful vim and good looks!
Regulates and Invigorates!
“Cream of Yeast” is the result of
patient experimenting in the labora-
tories of the greatest chemical organi-
sation in the world manufacturing any
form of yeast-vitamine tonic. Before
achieving its great triumph vrith
“Cream of Yeast” this organisation
actually made millions of yeast-vitamine tablets!
News of the amazing “Cream of Yeast” success made
others offer hastily-contrived brands of yeast. Tests
shoto that not one of these brands equals “Cream
of Yeast.”
“Cream of Yeast” is the concentrated medicinal-
yeast tonic; it gives the best and quickest results,
and is safe. “Cream of Yeast” invigorates and
regulates. It makes aspirin-mixtures, purgatives
and stimulants old-fashioned in its prompt, sure
action in stopping aches, pains, complexion troubles
and irregularities. It forms no habit! IT IS
SUPREMELY HEALTHFUL.
Immediate Results
No matter what your sickness may be, how long
Cream •>/Yeast
FOR YOUTH/
24 Tablets. 1/11: 48 Tablets. 3/G: 125 Tablets. 5/9. All Chemists.
you’ve suffered, or how much faith you have in
other remedies, try “Cream of Yeast” just once!
Better results are definitely guaranteed, and if you
fail to get them the trial will cost you nothing.
A Firm Guarantee of Quick
Benefit or Money Back!
You don’t risk a penny trying “Cream of Yeast”!
It will give you brighter eyes, rosier cheeks, clearer
complexion, more restful sleep, a firm, elastic step,
the fresh, lively spirit of Youth. It will free you
from headaches, stomach troubles, rheumatic pains
and the results of faulty elimination. It will make
you a New man or woman.
Simply get a 1/11 or 3/6 bottle of “Cream of Yeast”
from the nearest chemist Or store. Take
according to the clear, easy directions,
and if you don’t feel rejuvenated in
mind and body, if not perfectly satis-
fied—the price will be refunded on
application to the Amalgamated Labora-
tories, Kenibla Buildings, Sydney.
Thus you are positively guaranteed
better health and its resulting happi-
ness—Or no cost at all.
S 3
In Days of Old
White hair was
all the vogue.
In modern days
grey or white
hair is consid-
ered a sign of
approaching
age.
It is NOT “THE
THING.”
All traces of Grey can readily be removed
by an application of
Dr. Alien’s (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
Sold at all Chemists and Stores.
Harmless, easy
to apply, can-
not be detected
Australian Agents:
DUERDIN AND
SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street,
Melbourne.
m
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
r
■»
BRITISH
MADE
Perfection
PITSK RUBBER.
y-ifc
dfd
WEED
TYRE CHAINS
will give your car traction.
They “grip and hold.’’
Look for the name “WEED”
on every hook.
Order from your dealer .
WEED TYRE CHAINS
4036
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Cuiwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
If any illustration in “ THE
BULLETIN ” takes your fancy,
Write to the MANAGER, who will
quote you price for the original.
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
bools are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Wanderings in Wild Australia
By Sir BALDWIN SPENCER.
K.C.M.G., F.R.S., author of “The
Arunta,” “Across Australia,” etc.
Two vols. Illustrated. 425. net.
Sunday Times.—“ Sir Baldwin has for many
years done great work for science and for
investigators; with these volumes he has fur-
ther laid under obligation not only the mass
of his less learned fellow-Australians, but every
man, learned or not, who has the luck to read
at leisure his vivid personal impressions.”
Letters of the Empress Frederick
Edited by the Right Hon. SIR
FREDERICK PONSO N B Y,
G.C.8., G.C.V.O. With four photo-
gravure portraits. Eighth thousand.
255. net.
After Thirty Years
By the Right Hon. the VISCOUNT
GLADSTONE, P.C., G.C.M.G.
With portraits and other illustra-
tions. 21s. net.
Worlds Within Worlds
A Book of Travel Sketches. By
STELLA BENSON. With illustra-
tions by the Author. Bs. 6d. net.
NEW NOVELS.
The Silver Thorn
A book of stories. By HUGH
WALPOLE.
[Dominions Edition.
The Spectator. —“A collection of short
stories, all of very high quality. My convic-
tion is that Mr. Walpole is always at his best
in Polchester; he is certainly at his most
Balzacian.”
What is Love?
By E. M. DELAFIELD.
[Empire Library.
Daily News.—“ ‘What Is Love?’ is the best
book Miss Delafield has given us for a very
long time.”
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers•
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
"THE AGE”
Established 185h<
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“THE AGE” is a distinctive publication that
has taken root in the regard of the Victorian
people generally, and has flourished along the
highway of the State, keeping pace with the
development of the community for 74 years.
BECOME A SUBSCRIBER TO
“THE AGE.”
It will keep you in close touch with the news
of the world by its full and accurate reports
on all subjects having a genuine news value.
Price lid. per copy at all newsagents and
bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free within
the Commonwealth.
“THE^AGE”
Publishes Over 1,000,000 advertise-
ments annually.
Rates on application to the principal advertis-
ing Service Agencies of the Commonwealth, or
DAVID SYME & CO..
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
GUYATTS
I
BRASS CATTLE
SYRINGE
FOR treating big herds. With
flexible Abortion-pipe and
metal fitting. Best make,
tinned inside. 1 pint, 32/6, 2 pint,
42/6. Other patterns 20/-, 25/-,
30/-. Post Free.
MILK. FEVER OUTFIT—
No part to go wrong. 13/6, 15/-,
17/6 each. Freight extra. We
also stock Sykes Veterinary
remedies.
Dept. J 3.
GUYATT & CO.
257 a George Street, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
* PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to knote.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. i
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
PS/i
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
•
I
NOW NEATLY CASED at same price!
A strongly-made grained-leather case is now provided with every Plum
Razor, at no increase in cost. With its blade set to perfection guaran-
teed and kept in order for two years free—the Plum Razor shaves cleanly,
easily, quickly leaves the most delicate skin smooth and comfortable.
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 ~
Real Ivory Handle 21/- ~
Satin-lined double case free with pair.
7-day Sets—7 Razors in Case.
Black, 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory, 140/-
Post free to any address.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
GRASP THE SHADOW ERE THE SUBSTANCE FADE
PIECE ME TOGETHER AND YOUR FORTUNE’S MADE.
TALE OF A LUCKY BLACK CAT—In Many Parts—Part One
PET
BR
UR
0
3S
W±
WC
W±
etc
To*
OK
T * SI SI
e<s .1 3 o'
I x
1 > <b a
o
The Nine Lives of a Cat in 23 Pieces
Behold me, King of the Luck Bringers! Mind
you, I’m not an ordinary Tom Cat that stays
out all night, so my scattered parts cannot be
attributed to the careful aim of an annoyed
citizen resenting a courtship with Tabby on
the Tiles. Among my family inheritance is
a trick of being able to pull myself to pieces’
at a moment’s notice, without disturbing my
genius for luck-bringing. Indeed, the person
who can put me together again has all the
luck. I have specially offered my services to
the N.S.W. Fire Brigades Art Union to test the
skill of the good people to whom I have
brought fortune and good luck for several
vears.
There is money In this. In fact, there is a
fortune. All you have to do is to piece me
together so as to form a complete picture.
First send an application and enclose 5/
for a book of 6 tickets. This book
of tickets will be sent to you, together
with a leaflet containing my scattered parts,
looking just like the parts that appear in
this advertisement. You can sell or keep the
book of tickets, making a shilling on the
transaction. Or you can sell five and keep
one. The tickets are for the N.S.W. Fire
Brigades Art Union for £lO,OOO in prizes, the
first prize being a Solid Gold Helmet valued
at £3OOO, the largest prize for a shilling ever
offered in Australia. You may win this.
Now comes your next piece of good fortune.
There will be a special distribution of £5O in
prizes among those who send back the lucky
black cat pieced together correctly. The
amount will be distributed among those who
give ihe correct solution—First Prize £25,
Second Prize £lO, Third Prize £2, three
consolation prizes of £t, ten consolation
prizes of 10/, and 20 consolation prizes of
5/. It is yours for the glad hand.
Register your name at once. In addition, if you retain the 6th ticket, you may win
the £3OOO prize, or any of the others. For six tickets you may win prizes valued at
over £5OOO, including a casket of diamonds, a diamond tiara, and seven motor cars.
The closing date for the Lucky Black Cat Competition is Saturday, March 30, 1929.
It is the easiest piece of luck I have ever offered, and I have been in the'luck
business since Noah let me and Tabitha out of the Ark.
Address all applications, with 5/ enclosed, to J. J. Neville. Hon. Secretary, Fire
Brigades Headquarters, 213 Castlereagh-rtrcet, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES FIRE BRIGADES’ ART UNION
FOR HOSPITALS, AMBULANCES, AND CHARITY,
(Sanctioned by the Attorney-General)
£lO,OOO in Prizes. The most stupendous Prize List ever drawn up. Tickets: One
Shilling.
Six Tickets, 5/; Twelve Tickets. 10/; Twenty-five Tickets, £l.
A Ticket a Day Keeps Misfortune Away!
Send at once. State whether Mr.. Mrs., or Miss. Enclosed stamped envelope
for result slip. Art Union Drawn on June 1, 1929.
J. J. NEVILLE. Hon. Secretary.
Fire Brigades Headquarters, 213 Castlereagh-strret. Sydney. N.S.W.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Restful, quiet and cool—open to the Summer Sea Breezes. Delightfully situated with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service*
Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Summer Tariff from 5 guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines). Management M. E. BURROWS.
After a few more moments of wig-wagging
he turned round again.
“Captain says we’re to go back,” he an-
nounced briefly.
“You will not! I forbid it!” The owner’s
voice sounded strangely tense. “I refuse to
go back to be drowned. She is a devil ship
—hoodoo. She will go down any minute!”
Smithers shrugged. “Captain’s orders,” he
pointed out with scarcely-veiled contempt
at the other’s obvious agitation.
By this time the other boat, in charge of
the second officer, had pulled alongside.
“I read your semaphore, Mr. Smithers,”
the second announced. “We’re ready to go
back whenever you are.”
“You won’t go back !” Willas roared, liis
voice hoarse with fear. “I tell you, the ship
is hoodoo. She’ll drag us down —she’s only
waiting for us!”
Smithers favored him with a contemp-
tuous laugh. “If you’re afraid, you can get
out and walk!” he suggested. Then, picking
up the tiller ropes, he gave the order to row
back.
But Willas was not finished yet. Though
his face was grey, his words came clearly
enough.
“Wait!” he cried. “You signal that
blasted fool that he’s discharged. He may be
captain, but I'm owner, by God! And I’m not
going on any fool’s errand to please his
idiocy! Go on, curse you!” he added on an
hysterical note as Smithers hesitated, think-
ing rapidly.
Suddenly the young chief’s eyes lighted
and he nodded his agreement.
For such a short message as the owner’s
it took a remarkably long time to send. Willas
watched the proceedings with an uneasiness
that was by no means diminished when the
second, who had been studying the waving
arms closely, suddenly snorted and slapped
his thigh. Coincidently with which a grin
appeared on his face—a grin of malicious
enjoyment that spread wider as the sema-
phoring continued.
At length, when Smithers once more turned
towards the owner, Willas snapped:
“Well, what did he say to that?”
“Quite a lot,” the other retorted. “And
I agree with every word of it! Well, what
do you want to do now that lie’s discharged?”
“So he condescended to obey orders, did
he?” Willas sneered. “Good of him!”
Smithers nodded, but the expression in his
eyes made the owner feel as uncomfortable
as did his words:
“You men are witness to the fact that
Captain Risdon was formally deprived of his
command by the owner, Mr. Willas here?”
A roar, half-angry, half-contemptuous, gave
him his answer.
Willas waited until it had died down.
Then he nodded at Smithers.
“And now I formally appoint you cap-
tain, young man. So hurry up and get us
to land as quick as you can!”
Smithers shook his head. “Can’t do it,”
he said tersely. “Find another captain if
you can.”
“What?” Willas’s voice trembled with
annoyance this time. “Can’t appoint you
captain? Don’t talk rot. I tell you you
are captain ! If you knew anything about
ship law you’d know that you automatically
became captain, pro tem. as soon as Risdon
was fired. And now I’m confirming the
appointment.”
Smithers could not repress any longer
the grin of malice that lighted his features
as lie replied :
“The trouble is that Captain Risdon fired
me and the whole crew before I told him
he was fired himself. Mr. Cameron will bear
me out in that.”
The second officer from the other boat
nodded emphatically.
“That’s a fact!” he announced cheerfully.
“A regular incendiarist, the Old Man, the
rate at which he fired us. I read all the
signals, and there’s no doubt that it’s as Mr.
Smithers says. More ship law, you know!”
he added caustically. “The owner can fire
the captain, but only the captain can fire
the crew. And now, Mr. Smithers, if you’re
ready, so am I.”
“We’d better put it to the men first,”
suggested Smithers, and, as the second
nodded liis agreement, the young chief
addressed the men in the two boats. “It’s
this way, lads. We’re all free men—all our
own bosses, in fact, since the Old Man fired
us. Now Willas here, as owner, fired the
captain, because he was scared to take the
chance of saving the old Cross and thought
that I’d be so mighty glad to call myself
captain that I’d just eat out of his hand
as soon as he made me skipper. Also you
heard him refuse the offer made to him that
we as a crew would go back and get the old
tub going. That lets us out, and if we go
back now we do so as private individuals
doing a little salvage job—and a very nice
one, too! —and, as such, we’re all entitled to
a share in the salvage money. There’s a
bit of a risk, of course. The Old Man says
he doesn’t know Avliere the leak is, or why
it stopped. But each man’s share in the
salvage will be worth a few years’ ordinary
pay. The Old Man is to take a quarter,
and we divide the balance in ratio to our
wages.”
“It’s a put-up job!” Willas screamed.
“You fixed that up before you told Risdon
he was fired!”
“Shut up,” the chief advised him con-
temptuously. “You cooked your goose your-
self!” He turned to the men again. “Well,,
boys, what’s it to be?”
He nodded in satisfaction at the unani-
mous answer.
“We’ll race you back, Mr. Cameron!” he
challenged, and the two lots of oarsmen put
their backs to the work.
In the bow of the No. 1 boat Willas sat
motionless, a haunting dread in his eyes. To
Smithers, observing him shrewdly, it seemed
as though the owner was waiting for a
catastrophe to happen—the memory of the
old hag’s words to Risdon came to his mind.
“Built in the eclipse”—there was something
sinister in that, and, although he did not
know the end of the quotation, a chill
prickled its way down his spine, a little
momentary shudder of nameless fear.
But once more aboard the Austral Cross
there was no time for anything but actuali-
ties. Smithers and the rest of them worked
like galley slaves. Henry Risdon set the
example, and the salvage crew vied with
each other to better it. For forty-two hours
they worked continuously at the pumps—
slow, back-breaking work, evacuating by
gallons the water that had come in by hun-
dreds of gallons. But every hour saw the Aus-
tral Cross riding a little higher, lifting a
little more buoyantly to the gentle swell of the
preternaturally calm Tasman Sea, and soon
after sunset of the second day Mr. Riordau,
the first engineer, had the stokers laying the
furnaces.
“If she don’t spring another mysterious
leak,” he said to Risdon, “we’ll have enough
steam up in a few hours to work the pumps;
but we’re going to have a job getting the
fires burning right with the coal all water-
logged. It’s the mercy of Heaven itself that
the boilers didn’t burst when the water came
up. Luckily it stopped just in time. An-
other couple of feet and they’d have been
right under.” He poked the captain dis-
respectfully in the ribs. “What about a
hoodoo now, skipper!”
But Risdon shook his head. “Can’t help
it,” he said. “I still feel that there’s bad
luck hanging about the old tub.”
He broke off as Smithers unceremoniously
burst in on the two of them—a Smithers
whose clothes and features were alike
rumpled and soiled.
“Got him!” he announced, his eyes gleam-
ing angrily. “The mangy swine!”
“Got wlio, Mr. Smithers?” Risdon’s voice
was sharp.
“Got the jinx, skipper!” the young chief
cried. “Got the damned traitor that tried
to send us all to the bottom. No wonder
the swine was so anxious about calm
weather!”
Risdon and the engineer stared at him in
amazement.
“You mean Willas?” the skipper hazarded
unbelievingly.
The other nodded. “I do. Mr. Judas
Willas! At the moment he’s in his bunk,
well guarded and not very conscious, I
expect. I had to hit him rather hard. As
it was, I was only just in time to stop
another leak!”
“Another leak?”
The two voices spoke in unison.
Smithers nodded triumphantly. “I spotted
what was wrong when I first went down
below to-day—it was as soon as the water
was low enough,” he explained. “You re-
member I reported ‘All clear’ to you while
Willas was in here this morning?”
Risdon nodded.
“Well, it wasn’t all clear, sir—not by a
long chalk! This is what I found.” He
ticked off the items on his fingers. “One:
The bulkhead doors weren’t broken in by
the water, as you’d have expected. They
had been, opened!” The captain and the
engineer failed to hide the astonishment that
this announcement produced, and again
Smithers nodded triumphantly. “Opened,”
he repeated. “Two: The ballast tank in the
midship bulkhead had been opened up—
the top taken right off it: just how I expect
Willas will tell us when he recovers from
his er—accident. And three: The ballast-valve
had been opened. No wonder she sprang
a leak! The ocean had a straight run in!”
He paused to draw breath before he con-
tinued.
“Well, that made it obvious to a blind man
that someone had been doing his best to
scuttle us. From then on it didn’t take
much effort to put two and two together, and
get the right answer. There was only one
man who had anything to gain by doing it,
and the way he’d been worrying about the
weather was another proof. He wanted to
make his own skin safe, and the only way to
do that was to sink her, not too far from
land, when it was calm. He knew it would
be easy enough to row two or three hundred
miles on a calm sea. I reckoned if he’d
done it once he might try it again, and that
the only way to prove anything was to catch
him at it—and to-night I did it. It was hardly
dark before he was sneaking off —you’d think
he’d have had the sense to wait till dawn
again ! —and I followed him. Well, I waited till
he started tampering with the ballast-valve,
and then —we had a little argument. I won,
and therefore the old Cross still floats!”
Smithers stopped talking abruptly, and
chuckled as he held up for inspection a fist
from which most of the skin had been
avul.sed.
Mr. Riordau thumped the table.
“The skulkin’ murderer!” he growled.
“After the insurance, the dirty swine!” He
looked enviously at Smithers. “I wisht I’d
been there!” he added regretfully.
Henry Risdon shook his head ponderingly.
“You wouldn’t believe it of a man,” he said.
His forehead wrinkled. “But what in the
name of God stopped a leak like that?”
Mr Riordan nodded vigorously.
“It’s mysilf can answer that question,” he
said. “I’ve seen it happen once before—not
the, scuttlin’, I don’t mean. The ballast-
valves are worked by an angled crank, which
has to bear the full pressure of the ocean
while it holds the valve open. If the crank
was like the rest of the gimcrack gear Willas
had in her, it’s easy to understand that it
broke under the pressure. Then the valve
would shut automatically. That’s what hap-
pened .... It’ll be a tidy sum o’ salvage, eh,
skipper?”
Love’s Hallowing.
Holy it seemed there where they lay
Beyond the churchyard wall:
Inside it had been blessed, but, oh!
The dead men had it all.
Outside the ground was sweet and good,
There where the lovers lay:
The church bell had it tolled had not
Driven their dream away.
And praying priest or chaunting choir
Had been a little thing.
For love to them was all in all
There in the evening.
And if a dead man in the gloam
Had risen then, he would
Have smiled and said the ground outside
As that inside was good.
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.


Important Announcement
to the Motoring Public/
Vacuum Oil Company introduces
the Improved Mobiloil
Tl/TOBILOTL, famous as the “World’s Quality Oil,” has, for many
J.fX y ear g 9 set the standard in motor lubrication.
The Vacuum Oil Company, always leaders in the field of lubrication
and co-operating step by step with motor manufacturers to overcome
their lubricating problems, now make a further contribution to the
cause of lubrication and of ideal motoring.
Problems of lubrication have increased with the modern motor
and with modern motoring conditions. These new burdens placed
on lubrication are: —
High Speed Engines Greater Pressures
Bigger Loads Higher Operating Temperatures
All these and other factors demand oils of surpassing quality and
suitability for the modern motor.
Standards must be raised to meet the demand of the day. The
call is for still better lubricants, something better than anything
produced before.
1
111
lloil
The Vacuum Oil Company now make available to the motoring
world The Improved Mobiloil, specially produced for the modern
motor, setting a new high standard in lubrication, completely solving
the problems of modern motor development.
Mobiloil has bettered its best. “The World’s Quality Oil” has
been made still better.
tpOR a slight increase of 3d per quart in bulk, due to the increased
cost of production, you now get an oil specially made to meet
the demand of modern motors and modern motoring conditions.
When you try The Improved Mobiloil, notice these immediate
results: —
Smoother Operation
Increased Petrol Mileage
and you will also be assured of —
Increased Oil Mileage
Quicker Acceleration
Greater Power
Now available
in tlie various
grades at your
local resellers
Fewer
Repairs
Greater Re-sale Value
Less Depreciation
of Your Car
The Improved Mobiloil costs more
and is worth it!
2/3
Per Quart
In Bulk
Slightly higher
in country
districts
VACUUM OIL COMPANY P TY L


A Message to
Kidney Sufferers
DR. SHELDON’S GIN PILLS are the remedy you require for Back-
ache, Kidney, Bladder, and Urinary Trouble. If they don’t benefit you
we will refund the purchase price. SHELDON DRUG CO., LTD.
That's a plain, straightforward statement, and the words mean exactly
what they say.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills are the remedy you need if you suffer from
Backache, Kidney, Bladder or Urinary Trouble.
They must benefit you, or your money will be cheerfully refunded.
You are to be the judge and jury.
Your word will be accepted as final.
Your money will be returned without quibble or argument of any kind
if Gin Pills do not benefit you.
Consider what this method of doing business means.
It means that Gin Pills will benefit 99 cases of Backache, Kidney, Blad-
der or Urinary Troubles out of every 100.
We have substantial proof of these from practically every centre in
Australia.
It also means that we have a large faith in the honesty of men and
women.
We do not believe that a single man or woman out of 100 who nave
suffered the torments of Backache, Kidney, Bladder or Urinary troubles
would deny the benefit they would receive, from treatment with Gin Pills.
We are sure 99 out of 100 would joyously admit it.
GIN
PILLS
WILL
HELP YOU
This extraordinary offer is made because of these facts:—
The known medicinal properties of Gin Pills and the honesty of human
nature.
Each Gin Pill contains all the constituents, with the exception of al-
cohol, of a pint of the finest gin, combined with other known and
forms a remedy which benefits almost every case. Gin Pills are put up in
glass bottles, hermetically sealed, and we sell them to you with the abso-
lute assurance that if they do not benefit you we will refund your money.
They are sold in two size bottles—at 1/9, or in large bottles, holding
more than double the quantity, at 2/9.
Buy a large bottle at 2/9 and give them a fair test, use two-thiiids of
the bottle, and if you feel they are not benefiting you, return your bottle
to the chemist or storekeeper from whom you purchased it, and he will
refund the money; or communicate direct with the Sheldon Drug Co., Limi-
ted, 131-35 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Under these conditions is it not worth while for any sufferer from
Backache, Kidney, Bladder or Urinary Trouble to at once test this won-
derful remedy?
Dr. Sheldon's Gin Pills
For Backache and Kidney Troubles
Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
IN CO-OPERATION WITH
WAGONS -UTS CO.
The only Firm with permanent
offices all over the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
ďf
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
ESCORTED TOURS TO EUROPE.
ALL CLASSES —Leaving February, March,
April. We are the pioneers of Escorted
Travel, and having our own offices through-
out Europe, are the only Tourist Firm
properly equipped to handle such business.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street,
ADELAIDE:
49 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
Imagination.
MARGARET FANE AND HILARY LOFTING TELL HOW W. OAKESHOTT,
ESQ., SPENT AN EVENING.
NOT quite iu his accustomed serenity of
self-confidence Oakesliott walked out
into Loftus-street. He glanced up at
the rich blue of the sky and down at the
watch on his wrist. Lateisli —late enough
not to go back to the office. It was a bad
principle; more so for the general manager
than for an office-boy, though the immediate
consequences were perhaps not so evident.
But, with this dinner at Breakspears’ to-
night. ...
Behind him an exhibition of pictures still
glowed and lit up the rooms, though he
was not there now to feel the glow. He
had bought two of the pictures —two land-
scapes. He was conscious of the, discreet,
well-bred publicity of this —“Purchased by
W. Oakesliott, Esq., would appear twice in
the society’s books for this year, and some of
the people who saw the entries would realise
that that was the Oakesliott who was general
manager of the Tulliver Company.
In the afternoon sunshine the triangle of
Macquarie Park looked fresh and green, with
its banks of flowers and the lawn, the obelisk
and the anchor. The sight of it took his
thought back to the rooms again, the empty
rooms with the lines of pictures. Portraits
and landscapes were all right; there was
nothing to baffle a clear mind in them.
But the other pictures!, the pictures of
imagination that those people were chatter-
ing so enthusiastically about —he simply
could not understand them. Oakeshott’s
grave face stared at the flowers and
the brooding Moreton Bay figs. He had
felt this before, and its annoyance' did not
decrease; he was not used to finding things
beyond his comprehension.
Barry Denham’s pictures, for instance —
those great glowing groups of figures, nudes
and beggars and kings all mixed up, some
laughing and some weeping, some mad and
some sane, beautiful and hopelessly ugly,
old and young—what could such things pos-
sibly mean ?. .. . Ho sat down on a seat
near the gate of the park. He wouldn't go
back to the office; a short rest here in the
heavy air, and he would stroll down to the
Quay for the Mosman boat and give himself
plenty of time to change into his evening
clothes for the Breakspears’ dinner. lie
liked plenty of time for things, and generally
saw that he got it. A little unconventional
perhaps, sitting here among these old dead-
beats and tramps; but no one was seriously
likely to question the right of Oakesliott. of
the Tulliver, to sit where he liked. The
worn old faces of the deadbeats drifted every
now and again across his line of vision ; but
he was thinking of Denham’s famous pic-
tures.
All those satyrs and nymphs mixed up
with priests and people in modern dress—
evidently each composition told some sort of
a story. But what the story was eluded
him and, so far as he could see, -would con-
tinue to elude him. Norma Saxby was the
same; she confessed, in her placid way, that
she simply couldn’t understand the pic-
tures. Of course, as the only daughter of
Hector Saxby it didn’t much matter what
she cared to understand or misunderstand.
But that wasn’t the point. Norma was safe
enough ; if she accepted him and became Mrs.
Oakeshott her comfortable destiny was estab-
lished. The important point was that lie
couldn’t get the spirit of the pictures.
There was something there, something that
seemed to brood behind a closed door, mock-
ing and yet in some queer way pleading for
comprehension. Some corner of life was shut
off from him here —the only corner that was
shut off, he believed. What was it that all
the world except himself could see?
A little stir of activity came to life in
the park. Two office-boys ran past his
bench, one throwing his hat in the air ami
catching it as he ran, and the other suddenly
turning a double handspring on the „ smooth
lawn. In a moment their voices had faded
and w T ere gone. Deadbeats got up, shuffled
aimlessly about, and sat down again .on a
different bench. Three girls came laughing
and chattering to the gate and walked
through, looking like birds released from a
cage. A sound of doors banged and roller-
shutters clanging into their frames seemed
to echo behind the groups of men hurrying
to the Quay and home. Presently silence and
the gathering dusk w-ere all that was left
save Oakeshott and the deadbeats. Some-
times a rapid footstep echoed for a moment;
but soon all sound ceased.
Oakeshott remained. Time enough, he told
himself; dinner was not till eight. And
this drowsy dusk.... Old Breakspear
thought he was going to shove that pompous
son of his in as assistant-manager of Holts’,
thereby planting a go-between that couldn’t
be shot at —this dinner was the thin end
of the wedge. But it wasn’t going to come
off. Holts’ assistant manager was already
appointed in Oakeshott’s mind; and that
settled the matter. If Breakspear thought
* * * «
Oakeshott became conscious of bright eyes
staring hard at him. He knew r that the eyes
were very bright and that they were staring
hard at him, though for a moment he
couldn’t find them. Presently he did. A
brown thin face, w r eatherw r orn and misf-
chievous, was peering round the corner of
the anchor’s pedestal at him—one of the
deadbeats, older and shabbier than the rest
of them. He seemed to be smiling to him-
self while his motionless eyes stared at
Oakeshott.
Oakeshott got up. Time to go now— this
sitting here was getting a bit silly. Passing
the seat behind the anchor’s pedestal he
heard a voice.
“Got a match to spare, Mister?”
Oakeshott paused, fumbling in his pockets.
He handed the man his silver matchbox and
waited.
“Thankye.”
In the sudden glow the old weatherworn
face looked ruddy and strong. “A fine night
on the way, Mister. And a fine day behind
us.”
“Yes,” agreed Oakeshott, taking the box.
“No hardship in sleeping out to-night.”
“Eh?” the man’s browm eyes looked up,
and after a moment he laughed. “No —no
hardship, Mister.”
Oakesliott turned to go; and turned back.
“Why did you laugh?” he asked.
“Why shouldn’t I?” the old man said,
chuckling suddenly again.
Sitting there smoking his pipe he seemed
the very spirit of contented serenity. The
smoke curling round the bowl of his pipe
made Oakesliott feel that he wanted a pipe
too, and lie sat down beside him to fill it.
The heavy dusk and the silence seemed to
wrap themselves 'round them. Presently the
old man broke the silence.
“Wonderful how places change, Mister.”
“I suppose it is.!’
“And when you come to think of it, what's
the good of it?”
“Good of what?”
“Why. all these buildings and offices —
think of that big building there, any number
of storeys and rows and rows of rooms on
each storey. And somebody, or a couple of
somebodies, in each room for a few years,
and then they die. And another somebody
works —if they call it work —in the room,
until he dies. What’s the good of that?”
Oakesliott in his turn laughed. “That’s
progress,” he said.
“But what’s the good of it?”
“No one can tell us that,” Oakeshott
replied with a touch of solemnity.
“I should think they couldn’t,” the dead-
beat said triumphantly. “It’s bad enough to
be a part of it, let alone trying to explain
it.”
Ilis bright strong eyes left Oakeshott’s
face and seemed to search the gathering
shadows. “Yer can’t draw a breath now,”
lie murmured, “without feeling it’s going to
suffocate yer.”
A tram clanged down the hill, reminding
Oakeshott of Mosman and Breakspear. But
there was plenty of time; lie could change
in ten minutes if he had to.
He felt: that bright hard stare on him
again, and turned to see the brown eyes look-
ing ruminantly at him. A faint contempt
seemed to be flickering in the eyes under
the burning laughter. The wizened mischief
in the face had gone, and in its place some
deep longing was pinching the tight mouth
and narrowing the eyes.
“I can remember it in the good days, the
days before this lot came.” He jerked a
brown hand over his shoulder. “Over there
the Stream came down and many’s the
time”. ... His voice trailed away to silence,
as if his memoides were too much for him.
Oakeshott remained on the seat, smoking
his pipe. The old chap was probably glad
of someone to talk to. And it was pleasant
and peaceful here. Shuffling figures loitered
by, pausing to rummage in the big wire
basket and drifting back into the shadows.
A stray footfall beat in the distance, echo-
ing softly into the silence. A lone star
peered out of the rich enveloping sky.
“Over there,” the tramp's hand flashed
towards the post office, “there was a clump
of ti-tree, and farther over an old flat root
—many's the time I’ve sat in the sunshine
the day through on it, watching the Stream
careering into the sea. That was when the.
sea was a good deal nearer than what it is
now.”
He paused, the hand groping in his ragged
pocket. Oakeshott glanced at him, and saw
that he was holding a short black pipe like
a little flute but wider. Looking down at
it; he chuckled. “But when the gilds came
down—that was the time. There were
handy bathing-places on the Stream. ... But
I was there, too.” He put the wide flute
to his lips, and a soft double-noted call sighed
out into the park. “Fol-low, fol-10w”....
it cried gently, its vast command seeming
to fill the world. “That fetched ’em,” he
continued. “There was a clump of gums
and saplings beyond there,” he waved the
Lands Office aside with a scornful gesture,
“and they made for it. But if I couldn’t catch
’em I could make ’em look back and some-
times come back, all rare and shining and
dappled like the gums”....
Again the soft insistent call slipped out
into the gathering night, the two notes
dragging at the heartstrings like a beloved
voice that must be obeyed.
* * * *
“There you are, you old scoundrel!”
A tall girl was standing before the seat
smiling at his companion. In the half-light
her frock seemed to shimmer like a gum-tree
as she nodded her green close-fitting hat
accusingly at the tramp.
“Good evening, Miss.”
“Good evening nothing. Why didn’t you
come for your sitting this afternoon? You
know perfectly well that Tuesday was the
day, so don’t say you forgot again.”
“I’m sorry,” he crooned, “but the sun-
shine was too good. And my friend” 1
Her clear kindly eyes turned to Oakeshott.
“Have you got anything to do with it?”
she asked. “He’s my best model and he lets
me down twice out of every three times.”
The general manager of the Tulliver Com-
pany pulled himself together. “No, I’m not
responsible,” he told her, “but I think”
he floundered for a moment. “You’re an
artist, aren’t you?”
“I’ve just said so.”
Watching her shimmering and gleaming
there he found suddenly that the power of
speech had left him. She held out a helping
hand. “Do you care for pictures?” she
asked. “Come and see mine some day if you
do.” Her vivid smile was a swift benedic-
tion. “Dalley-street; Pegram Building—
Alois Metcalfe.” She turned on the old man.
“As for you, if you don’t sit for me the
whole of to-morrow afternoon, I’ll never
speak to you again.”
She nodded to them both, and was gone.
The old man sighed and stood up. “I’ll
be going. Mister,” he said. “Good night.”
“Good night.”
In a half-dream Oakeshott saw him hob-
bling away in his enormous boots, saw the
gleam of a hairy shank through a rent in
his trouser-leg, saw him join the other
shadows and vanish.
But Oakeshott remained there, the night
descending warmly and softly upon him—
a gleaming richness leaning over him and
over Breakspear’s forgotten dinner, over the
Tulliver Company and over Dalley-street.


/
r*
//ft yii
/7
/
/>^=s
''SsS&
/////
\\
Z/
Dr. Zam-Buk”
(First-aid Expert)
home should be up-to-date in its
■*— l first-aid equipment. Prompt measures
of the right sort save pain, worry and expense
—not to mention danger to life and limb.
You cannot, therefore, afford to be without
Zam-Buk, the “surgery in a two-inch box.
It is no use in an emergency finding on your
shelf a lardy ointment that has gone rancid
and lost its potency. You want Zam-Buk
because, being free from both animal fat and
mineral drugs, it keeps indefinitely and is
always of even medicinal strength. This
high efficiency as a first-aid and skin remedy
comes from the rare herbal origin and careful
scientific production of Zam-Buk.
Zam-Buk soon takes the pain out of an
injury or sore place, it allays inflammation
and swelling in its own irresistible way; and,
after drawing out all impurity, it promotes
growth of new skin.
-Bilk
am
FREE Samples of Zam-Buk Balm and Medici-
nal Soap will be sent, post paid, on request.
Forward name and address to Messrs. C. E.
Fulford (Aus.) Ltd., P.O. Box 21, Surry Hills,
N. S. W. Regular size boxes 1/6 and 3/6.
His emotion had restored to his cheeks
their normal healthy tan, and his agate eyes
were lit with the golden flecks that she so
delighted to see. This was the Jasper of
old, vital and filled with purpose, impatient
of restraint. She gloried in the ardent
curve of his mouth, the square, strong jaw,
now thrusting determinedly, the sure pois-
ing of head and body. She was faint with
the effort to steel herself against the onrush
of her love for him. Not yet, not yeti
And she thought: “God give me courage
to hold out until he sees in the way I
want him to see. Even I can’t help him to
that. It must come, it will come, from
within. Only I can’t bear to hurt his ill-
ness.”
His face was so very close to hers. He
had taken both her hands. She wondered
dully how she found the strength to let
them lie so lifelessly within his warm, sure
clasp. Her face felt stiff and unnatural, her
body without blood.
Jasper said unsteadily: “Have I frightened
you? You are so white and still. But
you’ve always known that you were blood
of my heart.”
“Wait,” she said.
“Just as you’ve always loved me. I’m
shamed when I think how I’ve gloated over
that, even when hope was dead in me. And
yet I had need of it, God knows. And
now the way’s clear.”
Lois gently freed her hands—hands that
burned with hatred for her that she held
them back from touching the brown of his
rumpled hair. She tried to speak, but could
not.
Jasper was laughing.
“This damned music teaching—you shan’t
work again, if I can help it. Not real work,
to earn a living. Now I know why I
always wanted money. And I’ve got it.
Lois, Lois, do you know I’ve never once
kissed you? Never once kissed the dearest
thought God ever had! Give me your
hands again.”
She found words at last; though she
trembled so that she was scarcely audible.
“Jasper, not yet. Jasper, I must not.”
His eyes were incredulous.
“You mean I ought to have waited
longer? How could I wait longer? It’s not
as if I owed anything to Cora. She grudged
me enough when she was alive.”
“I hadn’t thought of Cora,” Lois said.
She could speak more firmly now. “Dear,
I haven’t any promise for you.”
“I don’t understand.”
“I can’t marry you.”
“You mean,” Jasper said slowly, “you
don’t love me?”
Lois said, unable to tear her gaze from
the agony of his mouth: “I love you better
than life. If I didn’t love you so much I
wouldn’t care I wouldn’t care. It’s be-
cause I do love you.”
Her mind said, bleeding: “I mustn’t
let myself think. I must keep from think-
ing. I must just stand firm—only so will
he be saved from himself.”
“I don’t understand,” Jasper said once
more.
His look was so broken that Lois could
have screamed with self loathing. She
managed to say: “I don’t quite understand
myself. If you’d only try to understand.”
Jasper said quietly: “You mean that?
You mean you won’t marry me? You love
me, but you won’t marry me? Will you
tell me why?”
He stood waiting, very white and straight.
She thought she had never loved him so
much as then, when she was hurting him so
vilely.
“I don’t suppose,” she said, “I could ever
explain. God might or the Devil. Per-
haps it isn’t God; perhaps it is the Devil.
If it’s God”
She thought, as he went a little blindly
from her sight: “Am I mad? He came to
find heaven, and I’ve sent him to find hell
sent us both to find he 11... .because
I’ve set his fineness too hard a task
after all he’s suffered Cora and now
me!”
The suddenly released tears ran down her
cheeks.
Ronald Braid said: “Hang it all, Jasper,
what’s the matter with you lately? You’re
turning into a regular hermit. You never
join up now. Even Lois was saying yester-
day that she hadn’t seen you for over a
month.”
“It’s my work,” Jasper explained shortly.
His face was white and strained, and there
were heavy black shadows under his eyes.
He seemed in the last few weeks, Ronald
told himself, a little anxiously, to have
become older and heavier. There were deep
lines in his forehead. His hands were rest-
less and his voice had lost its timbre.
Ronald insisted with petulance: “Isn’t
that what I’ve been saying? Your work.
It’s getting you down; that’s what’s the
matter. A lot of people you know and like
will be along. I want you to see Betty’s
finished portrait. I tell you it isn’t half
bad, though I say it that shouldn’t. It’s got
character. You’d expect that, wouldn’t you,
seeing that it’s Betty. I shouldn’t be sur-
prised if between us—Betty and I—we
knocked ’em badly this year.”
Jasper gave him a tired smile. “I hope
you do. I don’t think I’ll be there. I’d
like to, but Well, I tell you what; if
you like to, look round at my flat to-night,
on the chance I’m in a better mood! But
I warn you that I don’t think it’s any good.
My head’s aching hellishly.”
“I’ll do that. Look here, old man, don’r
be such a damned fool. You’re making the
pace too hot. If you can’t afford to lay off
awhile, who can? Why don’t you get along
now and book yourself for a short sea trip?
Have a fling around the islands.”
“Talk sense,” Jasper advised. “Someone’s
got to steer our deal through, I suppose.
We’ve three days left in which to do it.
Or would you sooner forfeit? I declare
to God I don’t care much what you do.”
Ronald was not offended. He said philo-
sophically: “You can’t mess yourself up
and expect to keep your temper, too, I sup-
pose. As a matter of fact, I meant after
you’d fixed things. I say, you can fix
them, can’t you?”
“I’m to see my brokers to-day. I’ll sell
Suedaks from now on. I don’t altogether
like the look of things. There’s an ugly
rumor or two going about. But I must
say the market stands pretty well.”
“I should say it did,” said Ronald, with
a little sigh of envy. “Suedaks are eighty-
four bob, aren’t they? And the show was
floated at £1? There’s no doubt about your
luck, Jasper.”
Jasper half raised his hand, as though
to steady himself against the rising tide of'
pain at his temples.
“Isn’t there? It depends on what you
mean by luck. That’s settled then....
that’s”
He was stammering a little. He was
saying to himself vacantly: “Good God, j
I’ve forgotten his name! How utterly ridi-
culous! Known each other all our lives,
and I can’t think of his name!”
“What’s settled?”
Jasper’s mind cleared with a rush. “About
your looking me up to-night, Ronald. Please
yourself.”
“I might ring you instead.”
“For Heaven’s sake, don’t. The damned
telephone bell jars me like the Devil just
now. I/ike someone tapping on my brain
with a hammer.”
“You know, I wish you’d see a doctor,”
Ronald said, as they parted. “Lois says
you ought.”
“That’s kind of you both,” Jasper said,
and thought immediately: “I expect I really
ought to .see a doctor. I’ll do it as soon as
I get this business through. A good tonic
will fix me, of course. All I need is a
good tonic.”
He stood still, suddenly, with the sick
feeling that he coidd not remember where
his office was. The street, the buildings
all about him, were grown vague and un-
familiar. The iron band at his temples
had tightened alarmingly. When, after a
second of silent agony, the hideous gap in
his mind closed itself, he was trembling
violently.
A great hatred of the city’s clamor filled
his released thought. He wanted desper-
ately to escape from it, to hide his appalling
weariness from the curious looks being
directed at him. The day was still young.
Perhaps if he rested quietly at his home
for an hour or two the sickness would pass.
He could return to the city in the after-
noon.
The woman who cleaned the flat had gone
when he arrived. He was glad of this.
Her volubility, he told himself, would have
been the last straw to his suffering. The
telephone caught his eye as he went to-
wards his bedroom, and he considered it
frowningly. On an impulse, he lifted the
receiver from the hook and left it dangling
and disconnected. The damned thing! He
wanted quiet, utter quiet. He flung him-
self on his bed, closing the lids upon eyes
that seemed to be pierced with thin hot
wires. He could not sleep. Yet he had no
knowledge of the passing of time. His
mind groped blindly, unfathomably, in the
pit of his half consciousness. He remained
thus for hours.
He opened his eyes upon darkness. A
swift fear that his sight had left him was
dispelled by a glimmer of light on the
window-pane from a street arc. He stumbled
from the bed and switched on the lights
of the room. The clock on his dressing-
table pointed to nearly eight o’clock. He
realised that he had lain almost without
movement for nine or ten hours.
(To he concluded next week.)
Island Song.
Jome day I shall go back to island places,
Gold beaches and the purple of the sea :
I’ll watch some lone blue isle the reef em-
braces
Lift peaked hills underneath the ivory
Of a young moon high in the blue dusk riding,
Lighting the world of sea and isle, and
white
Sails of our schooner through starred waters
gliding,
To haven smoothly in the chill sweet night.
Some day at sunset, with the calm tide fall-
ing,
I’ll watch the last lights stain the sea-
pools red,
Or on a hushed hill hear grey pigeons calling
Drowsily, and far down see the bright
thread
Of a creek winding through the plumed
palms, slender,
Soaring up either side and shadowed by
Dark fragrant evi-trees —I’ll watch the tender
Swift twilight bring the stars into tha- sky.
Some day I shall go back to island places.
Burning at noonday, sharply clear at
dawn —
Little plumed islets with the foam-wrought
laces
Ruffling about them, set in the green lawn
Of a lagoon ; on some sweet day of flying
Sapphire and silver where old memories
twine
I shall go softly under green boughs sighing
In isles that color every song of mine.
N.S.W.
A. SMITH.


m
WESTING HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker- Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
M aximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in jtock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOE-UKS « CHLKCH, Brisbane. CONCORD WEST. N. S. WALES
M Z Olliee—ll3-107 I'eatlierslon street \>eUlii*t<ni
VU'toi’iiiH offlrt* “Chancery Huukc. 485 Bourk© Strfft, Melnourii#*.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ISTJDEK, SMITH * CO., LTl>., Adelaide. BA.
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town and
Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and each
issue is eagerly read by men, women and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays. Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 223
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
Clk fldwrtiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody,
UnparallelecJ Circulation
in Relation to Population,
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” map be
■obtained at all inter-state agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Qotch, price i id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone, MAT,I6I. •
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Queensland s Greatest Newspaper.
To-day, in the great State of Queensland, the newspaper that
offers to merchants and manufacturers unquestionably the
finest “cover” in the daily paper field is
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
Circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be
greater than that of any other Queensland daily.
For rates and other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE,
First Floor, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If ariy illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
QUEENSLAND'S BIG DAILY PAPER
THE BRISBANE COURIER
Easily the best and biggest Daily Paper
published in Queensland and carries more
ADVERTISING
than any other Queensland paper year in
and year out - - “Courier” advertising
INCREASES SAEES
Rate Cards and specimen
copies from
Robt. D. Fisher,
Sydney Representative,
74 Pitt Street.
'Phone 85007.
Published by the
Brisbane Newspaper Co.,
“Courier” Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Also publishers of the
"Queenslander” and
“Sports Referee."
fkdtime id a good
time -MC any
time id the iujht
time to take
Worth a
Guinea
a Box.
>l^
KCgfe
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
contains everything that women
should know from kitchen to
drawing-room, from cradle to
old age. It is the most remark-
able threepenny - worth ever
printed.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
3d.
r
The Centre
Progress
of
Tasmania s
a n
‘THE EXAMINER 9 * is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricul-
tural, Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” has been published in Launceston
for 86 years, and is still the family newspaper of
Northern Tasmania.
, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner“ Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from;
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
13-lb Patterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. V. W. Margetts,
I 22 Flinders Street,
Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
701 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
sdf
p
o
0°
6
A)
a
s®
s®
w e
0
2
& 6 ;
* 6
*•»
c*Vi»^


3 0.13 d
■V.-'
t\
S 3
%
Nn
r; ftp"
fit t iV
X
If
[*!«»**
;x;t. v :.
t
m*
ih*
wm
n
M
mI'H, » '
i! K i
.... r
W,
r-
WSI
Sfl@L
>
4BBHEI
m
W
J,„
w
a
X.
r
-X
p
m
jssg
■
r*»,> V,
I
->-
3
••
ifH
A Timely Suggestion —
and a Ready Acceptance
BJIERE IS ANOTHER GOOD
1 Australian who has responded
2 readily to the suggestion to use
BRYANT & MAY’S Matches:
First—
Because they’re Australian and he
believes in supporting Australian
industries*
Second —
Because he’s proved there’s no
better match anywhere “for out-
doors and in,”
Insist on Qetting the Australian Made —Ask for
se
- -
BRYANT & NAYS
AUSTRALIAN ,
MATCHES
.
*» -r j
UL kf'XV
SWfifi
*So
&
&
