

5,;#
... '
m
S*h7S
n** fc**i
« v/ ' “
$* v * * »•
*r; :f :««**■
A u*
m
.
yM
(m
-
isl!
■ -
sa*
; %
I ■ I
mu-E
#1 »
..d£
o
'O.S
HHf
C ' ' :
lmi\
a
oSfi) t'
m
“*•7
Or u
nza
;■ v
THE judges have given theiif verdicts. New Champions are
having their year, and when it comes to a toast to the
winners, say it with the champion drinks —Resch’s R B LAGER
or D A DINNER ALE. In both there is enjoyable refreshment
plus the finest body building nourishment.
RESCHS
T/teGemneUXilk DINNER ALE
AUSTRALIA'S BEST
The Bulletin
The Stories are a Feature.
Vol. 50.—N0. 2564.
Wednesday, April 3, 1929.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


\Y/RITE FOR THE LIBRARY CATA-
” J-OGTJE AND LISTS on all subjects,
wl ich will be xorwarded on application, poat
free to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
mwM
mtM
STAMMERING AND STUTTERING
CAN BE CURED IN YOUR OWN HOME
fin! 10-DA\ for particulars of “Perfect Speech” and copies of letters from
c “ red : Philip O’Bryen Hoare, M.8.1.M.5e. (London) (The
r.unmerers Friend), Specialist in Public Speaking and the Cure of Stammering
and Stuttering.
ADDRESS:
56 BRISBANE ARCADE, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
P.O. Bex 1142 P.
Love Me and the Luck is Yours!
As I was saying to Tabitha: Men are fools; why should they work for
a living when they can pick up wealth like this? Listen! All you have to
do is to look at me, love me, and the shilling’s mine, so to speak, but
the fortune’s yours—£lo,ooo of it. Nobody ever failed who trusted
Peter.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES FIRE BRIGADES’ ART UNION
FOR HOSPITALS, AMBULANCES, AND CHARITY.
'Sanctioned by the Attorney-General)
©
©
I AM PETER
THE LUCK BRINGER.
TAIS IS YOUR LUCKY Dffl
SEND ALOAIO AT ONCE
<
lU..DONM.D
£lO,OOO in Prizes. First Prize a solid Gold Helmet, valued
at £3000; Second Prize a Golden Casket of Diamonds valued
at £1000; Third Prize a Diamond Tiara valued at £750.
TICKETS: ONE SHILLING.
Six Tickets, 5/; Twelve Tickets, 10/; Twenty-five Tickets, £T.
A Ticket a Day Keeps Misfortune Away!
Send at once. State whether Mr., Mrs., or Miss. Enclose stamped envelope
for result slip. Art Union Drawn on June 1, 1929.
Address: J. J. NEVILLE, Hon. Secretary.
Fire Brigades Headquarters, 213 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
TAKE THE ADVICE OF A WISE OLD TOMCAT AND 808 IN.
I'LL BE HAPPY WHEN THE BOBS COME BOBBING ALONG!
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
HAS ACCEPTED
NEWS PICTORIAL
with the utmost enthusiuom.
ALL THE NEWS I
ALL THE PICTURES!
The State's First Morning
Pictorial.
Largely increased Sales
already assured.
Arrange Contracts at
present rates.
HEAD OFFICE: REGISTER NEWS-
PAPERS. LIMITED, Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative: Eric N. Birks,
Sydney. Tel. X 5187.
Melbourne Representative: G. N.
Bed nail, “Argus” Butilding, Mel-
bourne. Tel. F4502.
ASTHMA
Catarrh,Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough,
Colds in the Head
Yield at once
to the soothing
fumes ot
2/6 per Tin from all Medicine
Vendor*.
POTTER & CLARKE, LTD..
Artillery Lane. London, Eng.
ASTHMA
For outdoors, use
Potter's SMOKING
MIXTURE and
CIGARETTES
I'6 ancjj
POWDER V
IS A*
5&I
Si
v
\
as
m
Kills Flies and Insects
Instantly.
Sold everywhere, or forward
2/- or 1/- in stamps to
Hudson’s Eumenthol
Chemical Co., Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
The Red Page
Judith Silver, and Others
Hector Bolitho, sometime newspaper
reporter of Maoriland and Australia, has
just added another novel, Judith Silver
(Knopf), to his various and interesting list.
It. is a neat piece of sliort fiction, chiefly
important because it reveals a sure develop-
ment in the writer. This Bolitho is a much
more mature craftsman than the vouthfu
and too-smart author of ‘‘Solemn
Boy.’ He still displays some of the earl}
journalistic tricks, including the intrusion
of extraordinary things for the sake of
effect, but he has developed his technique
remarkably.
His leading male characters, James Orant-
ham and the son Simon, are carefully and
convincingly drawn. His Maoriland and his
country England are also faithful. He is
surest with commonplace or fairly average
types. His figures of English society are
as conventional as they are false. *lt is
a commonplace with novelists that when
the,y get out of their familiar domain they
tend to replace an absence of knowledge
with exaggeration. Every society character
in Mr. Bolitho’s book is a caricature and a
blithering tool. That is bad art. One
chattering woman mentions on her intro-
duction to Simon that New Zealand is, of
course, a Conservative country; a breath
or two later she is asking if he ever met
someone who went out to Tasmania. That
* s , bad art. Indeed, nearly all Mr.
Bolitho s women are unconvincing. And
yet he manages a neat piece of fiction, with
an aim, far above average. The theme is
the jealous love of a mentally imbalanced
widower f<?r his son, which is worked up to
a convincing and dramatic climax by the
,° ve ol the son for a great opera singer,
the novel is not big in canvas, but its con-
ception is very beautiful: It has its defects,
but even ilrey make the reader look for-
ward to what the writer will do next.
Another remarkable book which touches
upon Maoriland is Glimpses, by Corrie
Denison (fecholartis Press), a collection of
short stories. The writer is an Englishman -
who enlisted in the A.I.F, and saw Gallipoli
and k ranee. He is a prose Bellerive
and some of his writing is as dull as a
stunned pedestrian. Apparently he has no
powers of selection. Everything goes in
and a, passionate love story will be inter-
rupted by a footnote on Indian politics in
the manner of the Statesman’s Year Book
He is oil on unconsciously funny; “Towards
the end of October,” he says oG Gallipoli
the company joined the rest of the bat-
talion in the trenches; the ascent of those
rugged lulls offered much to interest them ”
He is introduced in Paris to a cafe where
everybody sits about stark naked. This
also offers much to interest him. In “Char-
mmn Warrington” he attempts a delineation
° the grand passion. It is a superb piece
of realism; Anatole France’s “Red Lily” is
pale pink by comparison. Incidentally, it
is a refutation of the wicked calumny that
love cannot be put into plain English with-
out being made ridiculous. Mr. Denison is
like those painters of the realistic school
who regard every object as of equal import-
ance, from a commode to a palace It is
impossible to moralise abouChim. He is as
impartial as the gallows.
Another current, work of more than ordi-
interest is 77m Tc„ Foot Square Hut
and Fairs of the Heik'c , by A. L. Sadler
' Angus and 1 Robertson). Professor Sadler
who directs Oriental studies at Sydney Uni-
versity , has given his translations from two
thirteenth century Japanese classics a curi-
ous foreign flavor by writing in a somi-
biblical style. The “Ten Foot Square Hut”
is a meditative essay of great beauty; the
I ales are more or less connected pictures
in which a strange and struggling period
comes miraculously to life. In retrospect
the reader views a massive panorama, of
stufc and feud. It is all so simply and
clearly told in this translation that the
details slip past, without, striking fhe imagi-
nation particularly. It is as a whole that
the tales live. Professor Sadler has bril-
liantly . added to—or has he ' begun? the
making of translation in Australia. Attrac-
tive bookbinding is apparently an art still
to be mastered here, but this is neater than
most, and it is well illustrated with prints
from the Japanese*
Play Censorship
The Sundry Showman’s verdict upon
i oung \\ oodley,’ that it: is a wholesome
and nrbral play, indirectly raises the topic of
play censorship.
Pitted against the censor are two kinds of
playwright—the one who has written a play
which _ho feels is a work of art and has
a mission and possibly points a moral, but
which deals with a subject which the censor
deems unsuitable for presentation in a
public theatre, and the one who deliberately
drags in as many salacious scenes as pos-
sible in the hope of drawing the crowd.
Also against the censor are theatre managers
and producers (divided into the same two
classes); artists, who think that no role
which contains wonderful acting possibili-
ties should be withheld from public view.
no matter what the character does or says;
and those playgoers who resent the censor-
ship as an interference with their personal
liberty.
For some considerable time Basil Dean,
one ol the most .scholarly and artistic
forces in theatrical production, was in con-
sultation with the Lord Chamberlain (Lord
Cromer) lor permission to produce “Young
oodley.” There would seem to be nothing
in the play to cause it to be withheld
from public view. Nor is there, so far as
immorality is concerned. The censor did
not ban it on such grounds; he took the
view that if “Young Woodley” were
publicly performed the whole public school
system of England would be threatened.
The character of the master, the'feeling be-
tween him and the boys, Woodley's little
affair with the master’s wife and the frank
remarks of one of the other prefects concern-
ing his views on women would have a bane-
tul effect on the whole system, thought the
censor. The protracted negotiations reached
a deadlock. Lord Cromer made the official
pronouncement that “his decision was defi-
nite and irrevocable; a license would never
be granted.”
Basil Dean, however, did not despair. He
offered to delete any passage in the dia-
logue which might be regarded as likely to
give offence. But it was to the vital pur-
pose of “Yqung Woodley” that Lord Cromer
objected, and others supported his view. He
read the thing three times in the course of
the negotiations. Then Dean pointed out
that much rested with the discretion of the
producer ; that one producer could niake of
a play a blatant, vulgar piece, but another
could so handle it as to present it as
a restrained, artistic work; that what
might appear objectionable on a reading
might prove quite otherwise in actual per-
formance, such a largely determining factor
being the purpose of the producer to make
the best of a play or the nastiest of it.
Lord Cromer acknowledged the force of this,
but said his objections were too strong to
be modified. Eventually Dean decided to
stage the play privately at the Theatre Arts
Club and Lord Cromer consented to witness
the performance.
Then Lord Cromer did what only a big
man- could do. He notified Dean that he had
been so impressed With his production of
the play that he would grant him a license
for public presentation. Then another inter-
esting situation cropped up. Referring to
Dean’s argument, about the wide difference
between two productions of the same pla} r ,
the. censor asked what would happen when
the play was sent out on tour by other com-
panies. Dean had to enter a promise that
lie would personally supervise any such
production.
Both the play and the performance
created a thoroughly favorable impression.
There was no dissentient critic; the Lord
Chamberlain's action was lauded with a
unanimity rare in journalism. Courage
must have been needed on Lord Cromer’s
part to make, this frank admission that he
had been mistaken. His action will do
much to allay the agitation to abolish the
office. For, surely, the office of censorship
is one that must continue. It needs a
strange outlook on life to hold that no
harm could be done, whatever was licensed.
Many people drift into a theatre with no
knowledge of what the play is about, and
they would certainty have had some shocks
if confronted with some of the pieces that
the censor has refused to pass. There is
also the difficulty of keeping such pieces
from young people. America is the country
which has the greatest latitude in stage-
censorship. _ Has any great benefit been
derived? No classics, vibrant works of art,
that had formerly been withheld, have
appeared. Merely a succession of sex plays,
each a little more daring than its predeces-
sor, and culminating in so great a public
outcry that in three plays the police have
arrested the manager and performers and
New York’s thcatredom received yet an-
other advertisement, by being broadcast to
the world as a sink of iniquity.
In England of late years there has been
much wrath against the censorship because
of the vulgar trash that is so often let
through, while some of the finest plays and
the classics are prohibited because of one
dubious scene or theme. But like so many
things, it all depends on the type of man
at the head, and no one should have any
grounds for complaint while there is a
censor like Lord Cromer.
CHARLES DEARDEN.
Murder as a Civic Duty
That truth is stranger than Hollywood is
the moral pointed Hv Hands Up, written by
A. B. Macdonald from the recollections of
F. E. Sutton (Geoffrey Bles). A chronicle
of days well within the memory of many
not far past, middle age, it tells how the
last of the American gunmen—not to be
confused with the hired gangsters of
Chicago and New York—came up as a
flower and in the evening were cut down in
that strange No Man’s Land which was
known as the Territories,.until it finally
resolved in the 1890\s into Oklahoma and
New Mexico.
Sutton was himself a cowboy gunman in
that war between the cattle kings and the
invading: sheep herders which is one of the
blackest spots in the latter-day develop-
ment ol the W estern States. Like many of
his comrades, he found himself left with
the choice of drifting into professional
(Continued on page s■)


>
..JTITX
r>:
;•**,
«*$
■w
-vt
w
/
<»
•TIT;
i
-&P
m
i
its
$
S33S
L«t
3&
-i*;-
&?:
;r.
.- r.Ti-iTiTiTiTitititiTi-iTi'a
■ «i ;■, viriTiTirlr irinr« *- <.4
tTruth in Advertising”—not an .unattainable ideal ,
but an established fact at Anthony Horderns •
Anthony Horderns'
for Overcoats in all favoured
Styles, Colors and Fabrics
—and all offering
Genuine Economy
Several styles of Overcoats will be popular this season —the “Prince Edward,
the Swing Back Raglan, the “Chesterfield,’ ’ and, of course, the belted Gabar-
dine Raincoat —and Anthony Horderns’ have prepared for the colder months by
providing an unequalled assortment of these smart new garments. Typical
productions of the world’s leading makers are included —yet in every case prices
are distinctly moderate, quality considered. The prices you are asked to pay
could not buy more quality anywhere.
from 841-
The double-breasted “P rince
Edward” Coat is illustrated. Form-
fitting, and has half-belt with inver-
ted pleats and back pleats, or plain
back with vent. New colors and
designs in all-wool Velour Coating.
Prices, 84/-, 105/-, 126/-, 147/-
from 70|~
Popular Swing-back Raglan Coats,
in smart English Tweads of Grey or
Fawn. Perfectly tailored, well lined.
A size for every man. Excellent
Coats in every way—whether you
consider style, quality or price most
important. 70/-, 84/-, 90/-, 105/-
from 90-
The conservative “Chesterfield”
Overcoat is semi-fitting, and cut on
straight lines. Set-in sleeves, three
outside and two inside pockets.
Tailored in England from All-wool
Coating. In neat Dark Greys.
Prices, 90/-, 105/-, 126/-, 147/-
from 72/6
Men’s Woollen Gabardine Rain Coats, thoroughly water-
proofed. Raglan sleeves; fully lined. Tailored in England.
Grey, Fawn, Mole, Navy. 72/6, 79/6, 90/-, 105/- to 147/-
from £B/81-
English Model Overcoats. Exclusive Coats in new and inter-
esting styles and materials, the products of the world s best
looms. £B/8/-, £9/9/-, £lO/10/-, £ll/11/-
(Overcoats —Ground Floor. We Pay Carriage.)
You can buy your new Coat on our “D.P.S.” (Deposit-Purchase System) if
it suits you better. The cash price only is charged, and there is no interest.
Anthony Horderns’
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O .


Ulrf*
Wf.
tut
HPHE firm tract-
ive qualities
of Goodyear All-
Weather tread
tyres make pos-
sible high speed
and great driving
power with a defi-
nite assurance of
safety and com-
fort
d


ENGLISH SOFT FELTS
POPULAR SHAPES
LATEST COLORS
A
a
\
v
A REALLY WELL DRESSED MAN PAYS AT
LEAST AS MUCH ATTENTION TO THE
CHOOSING OF HIS HAT AS TO HIS SUIT.
HE IS SATISFIED ONLY WITH A SMART,
COMFORTABLE AND SERVICEABLE HAT !
Our English Soft Felt Hats satisfy all these
requirements. In plain snap or curl brim
style, with self or black band as desired.
They are in all the popular new colors—
Nubia (a new shade of dark fawn), Moise
(fawn), Lima (light fawn) and new greys.
Fitted with grease-proof leather. From 35 / -
DAVID JONES’
Castlereagh, Market and Elizabeth Streets.
Branch Men’s Store, George Street, opp. G.P.O.
banditry or joining up with what the
countryside regarded as the forces of law
and order as a United States marshal.
Before that, citizens of the Territories made
their own laws and appointed their own
officials, usually noted killers, who, as
“sheriffs,” at once became zealous upholders
of civic rectitude as it was thereabout
regarded.
There was a simple working code; to
shoot an unarmed man or kill from behind
or without warning was murder. The
decencies observed, homicide was not a
culpable incident, though it might be
brought up against the slayer by exigent
friends of the corpse. Slaying such as that
by Billy the Kid, who did it out of sheer
lightheartedness “just to see them kick,”
or killing an unarmed man and the five
witnesses present in order to suppress the
evidence, which was an incident in the
career of Prairie-dog Dave, was regarded
as distinctly bad form. There were even
gunwomen. Belle Star’s portrait in
side-saddle and long riding-habit marks
her as one who would not have been out of
place in Rotten-row but for the sombrero
and the cartridge belt and holstered
revolvers. Poor Belle—she “never killed a
man unless she was compelled to!”
In this gallery of gunmen, two portraits
stand out, both “sheriffs”—Wild Bill
Hickock of Tombstone, and Bat Masterson
of Dodge City. Wild Bill died foully mur-
dered, according to local ethics; the other
marvellously lived to become a New York
writer on sporting topics, and especially on
pugilism, of world-wide renown.
Hickock had been a scout in the army
under Custer, with Buffalo Bill. He wore
his long blonde hair flowing over his shoul-
ders, and his fame as a dandy was dazzling.
The first time Sutton saw him he wore a
“Prince Albert coat, 'check trousers, a silk
waistcoat embroidered with colored flowers,
and a cape thrown over his shoulders with
a flowered silk lining.” His boots, specially
made for him at 60 dollars a pair, had heels
four inches high. He was “so unfortunate”
as to have been reluctantly compelled to
kill eight American citizens who became
jealous of his attentions to various ladies.
Such a paladin was bound to incur hostility,
but it was ambition on the part of another
that brought him to an untimely end; he
was shot from behind by one who desired
to acquire fame as the slayer of such an
illustrious murderer. As exquisite in his
professional methods as in his attire, Wild
Bill invented a way of carrying his pistols
in specially made steel clips fastened inside
the breasts of his frock coat. A stranger
reaching for the usual hip holster naturally
lost valuable time, a fact by which Wild
Bill, who habitually walked about with a
coat lapel in each hand, invariably profited.
Of quite a different type was Bat Master-
son. His ambition was to be the best-
dressed man of his social circle, and his
photographs show him as a small man,
neatly garbed in well-cut lounge suits, with
a watch-chain perhaps a little too ornate.
When Bat left a comparatively repentant
Dodge City behind him there were 37
graves—“not counting. Mexicans,” as he
himself said—to his credit in the cemetery
on Boot Hill, so called in genial recog-
nition of the fact that most of the inhabi-
tants were laid there as they died, *vith
their footwear in situ. To an acquaintance
of the present writer the great man
mentioned an important historical fact
which even the meticulous Sutton has
overlooked. Like Hickock, Masterson
carried his armament in an unsuspected
quarter—down the front of his trousers.
He affected a custom of carrying his hands
slipped into the waistband. Here, again,
the result was that the more conservative
type of gunman was lulled into a false and
usually fatal sense of security.
But it came to pass at last that the
Federal Government established a court at
Fort Smith in Arkansas, with jurisdiction
throughout the Territories and parts of
Colorado. Isaac C. Parker was appointed
Judge, and until 1896 he ruled without
appeal. He selected the juries, and it says
much for his moderation that only 88 of
the 172 men he sentenced to death were
hanged. Parker’s lieutenant, George Mad-
elon, who did the actual hanging, “stretched”
80 mortals in addition to shooting five
who attempted to escape. “He was well
educated, and the people of Fort Smith
respected him. He was proud of his work
and liked to show the gallows to visitors
and talk about the hangings.”
The book is a briskly bloodthirsty chro-
nicle, which all respectable and conventional
citizens ought to find engrossing to a
degree.
J.B.H.
A Great War Novel
A recent Red Page contributor, writing
from Berlin, complained of a prevalence of
war plots and characters in Australian fiction
and compared this with an absence in the
German. Germans did not write about the
war, except to ridicule those who fought it.
His theory was that Australians were not
similarly affected, and so on; and on the
face of it that theoiy looks reasonably
sound. But on top of these observations
from the heart of the most damaged nation
comes from the same address The Case of
Sergeant Grischa, by Arnold Zweig (Seeker;
Dymocks). It is a very great novel, and
the greatest book of any kind about the
war that this reviewer has read. It com-
pletely refutes the theory mentioned, and
perhaps establishes another—that only one
of a nation which had suffered the greatest
war damage could possibly put the war into
a book.
The plot has remarkable simplicity. The
case of Sergeant Grischa is a thin white
thread running straight through a great
fabric upon w’hich is woven the terrible
design of war, from the top to the bottom
of the German military system, from east
to west and north to south of Germany, and
reaching out to embrace the strife across
No Man’s Land. Grischa is' a Russian
prisoner of war who escapes and falls in
with a curious band of other escapees and
deserters in a large wood. One is a woman,
and she and Grischa become mates. Later,
Grischa pushes on, is captured, poses as a
Russian deserter, but is sentenced to death
as a spy. He escapes this fate by declaring
his true identity, and he wins the sympathy
of those into whose hands he has fallen.
Follows a struggle to save his life, and in
this struggle the great military machine is
set working under the reader’s eyes. It, is
a vast and a terrible spectacle, especially
terrifying because impotent in the heart of
it stands a mere wretch of a Russky.
Nurses and the woman of the woods give
feminine color to the fabric, which is woven
with extraordinary fineness of detail. The
novel has tragedy, humor, pathos and
tremendous breadth. The plot is stated to
be founded on fact, but that does not matter
much; it would be true anyway. The book
is put forward as the central piece of a
triptych. It will be preceded by a novel
called “Education Before Verdun” and
will be followed by “The Crowning of a
King,” in which two of the principal char-
acters of “The Case of Sergeant Grischa”
will be separately the central figures. The
author was born in Silesia in 1887. and
was in the German army from 1915 till
the end of the war.
Books Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a com-
mittee nominated by the Associated Book-
sellers of Australia and Maoriland. It is
printed as a guide to books of merit.
General Literature. —Assessments and An-
ticipations, by Dean Inge; The Plays of J.
M. Barrie; Ellaline Terris, by ITcrself;
The Glory That Was Grub Street, by St.
John Adcock; Bonnet and Shawl, by P.
Guedalla; The Life and Letters of Walter
Page, 1855-1913; Letters from a Flying
Officer, by R. S. Wortley; Beneath Tropic
Seas, by William Beebe; Nine Modern
Plays, by John Galsworthy; Letters of
Katherine Mansfield.
Novels of Literary Merit. —Pilgrims of
Adversity, by William McFee; The Case of
Sergeant Grischa, by Arnold Zweig; Orlando,
by Virginia Woolf; Nightseed, by H. A. Man-
hood.
Popular Reading. —The Prisoner in the
Opal, by A. E. W. Mason; The Ladder of
Folly, by Muriel Hinc; Portrait of a Spy,
by E. Temple Thurston ; The Case of Ser-
geant Grischa, by Arnold Zweig; Pilgrims of
Adversity, by William McFee ; Phantom Kin,
by Sophie Cole.
A Satchel of Books
Tres slur’s Quest, by Henry Dobson
(Walker). This, according to the publisher,
is a “vivid account of life in the Australian
colonies, more especially in a Tasmanian
lumber camp.” It is the funniest example
of an author’s fearlessly describing some-
thing he hasn’t the foggiest idea about that
the Satchel has ever seen.
Tales from Some Eastern Jungles, by K.
W. S. Mitchell (Cecil Palmer). For one
who has written half a dozen books, the
author has a curiously unliterary style. But
in these sketches of big-game hunting and
other sorts of jungle life he gives the impres-
sion of writing on the spot, and his pictures
come out clear and convincing. The setting
is North Ceylon and elsewhere East of Suez,
and numerous colored photographs help the
reader along.
Lady Qood-for-nothing, Poison Island and
The White Wolf, by Sir Arthur Quiller 1
Couch (Dent). These three volumes —the
first and second novels, the other short stories
—continue the admirable Duchy edition of
“Q.’s” tales and romances. In his brief pre-
faces “Q.” furthers his already strong argu-
ment in favor of ppre romantic fiction:
Any clever fellow can pull faces at humanity
and deride it; as anyone with little expense can
invent mishaps and misunderstandings. A novelist
who traffics with sex and suicide, domestic bickerings
and disillusions', is playing the very easiest game
in the w0r1d.,.. Among Western people, at any rate,
the now fashionable Russian trick of endless talk
which never arrives at action cannot endure.
The Life of Llonore dc Balzac, by Rene
Benjamin (Ileinemann). An attempt to
reconstruct in narrative form Balzac’s life
as it was lived. Much of the story is told
in dialogue, which makes eminently enter-
taining reading; but as the reader is aware
that most of it was never uttered, that it
is, in fact, the biographer himself talking
through the mouths of his characters, the
result is not so convincing as pure retrospec-
tive writing can be. Boswell and Lockhart
write their biographies from their heroes’
shoulders, but they had occupied those hon-
orable perches. Still, this is a swift-moving
narrative, done with human feeling and
fidelity.
Beyond the Breakers, by Monte Holcroft,
(John Long). A tale of the South Seas,
rather better designed than usual. The
author, a Maorilander, takes a hearty pull at
the long leg of coincidence, but he has ideas.
His depiction of a sated old row,e-novelist
once of European reputation, living on a
copra plantation with no companions save
his own works and three particularly
unpleasant sons, is out of the ordinary. The
virtuous maiden naturally intrudes, and the
three unpleasant sons just as naturally ac-
celerate their unpleasantness. Then, of
course, the hero and the way out, with the
parson or the registrar looming inevitably in
the distance.
Answers to Correspondents.
Ko notice ( except of a hostile character) will be taken o) communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contnbuUons volun-
\arily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
J.L.: Rhymed welcome to spring entitled
“April” is another injustice to Australia.... Bush-
bloke: You still do not “get a look in for any of the
Bully tin”.... Watts Eaton Hughes: The corrosive acid
of bad verse M.F.: Every week somebody blames
“friends” for encouraging them to forward yards of
piffle Jed: “Hell’s Despair” is a moving verse.
It’s now moving towards y0u....C.W.: Yell, we
have “read it right through,” if that’s any comfort
to you Q.T.: Sorry it was your pipe you broke.
Fru: Ticket in Tatt.’s duly written for on
hearing you have “given over the muse . ...8.F.L..
You must be another Samson, if that’s your idea of
light verse.... A. A.: Nay, nay.... Strilo: Humorous
verse needs at least to be humorous A. 1.: 'ouie
better than many we read, but that’s not enough....
L.M.D.: An ambulance ease 1.M.L.: So'that s
what vou call “a pleasant evening”? C.R.I'.: You
can write, but it’s an unwholesome theme
W.L.J.: Film story a fadeout 11. B.: Not room
enough here for the man "of massive frame, brawny
arms and huge face” who “blew tremendous clouds
of smoke” K. 5.0.: Interesting as a reminiscence,
but it is no story....W.C.T.: Sorry, second shot
missed E.M.: Too much milk Gab: Expecta-
tions raised, but not realised.... F. II.: The construc-
tion doesn’t appeal... .C.K.T.: Original; have ago
at it again... .E.P.M.: No cheque for y0u....
A.J.H.: Quest amusing, but idea extravagant....
E.8.A.: Not so suitable for publication here this
week W.T.W.: Rather worn ideas W. 5.8.:
“Apart” rent asunder.... K.M.R.: Child verse needs
to he extraordinarily good. Yours is ordinalv....
T.W.N.: Too faint for u5....8.A.: Both awful
T.A.H.: “The Flirt” as empty as her kind....
H.C.: As inspired as a balance-sheet Isobelle:
With fine critical taste you call it “only r0t”....
T G W.: Better, hut still a long way oft... .C.l\: We
still don’t like “Sixty-five”....G.V.: Friend, your
“Chinese Cook” is dreadful. .. .H.McI.: “The Fail”
must have left you exhausted T.V.T.: You make
a poor fist of it... .Len Z.: “To the Basket.” A pro-
phetic title J.McN.: Sorry, arrived too late for
annual burning off of all pomes yearning for the bush.
... .M.F.: Verses returned in bath-chair... .C.K.T.: It
seems only just that your defence of barmaids should
be so spirited... .J.S.: Try a paper that goes in
for that sort of descriptive matter Don Q.: W
pip beer II.B.: What do you mean by “charms
outrival hers was born” ?••• .Arabian Knight: Truth
is a merit only when it isn’t du11... .T.M.: Un-
happily, you see nothing “Through the Fog”
M.F.: Fair, but still below the 1ine....0. Beau:
Oh, no W.S.: Entranced by “a caterwaul that
spills its gall in belly-aching phrases” Alarm
Clock: Don’t like your tune.... T.R.: The spring
that’s gone “from out your feet” hasn’t strayed into
your verse Q.R.W.: A good story in the rough.
Skill may come with practice, so practise L.H. J.:
The trifle you threw off is thrown out T.P.8.:
Too far-fetched, even for fiction... .C.A.G.G.:
Literary cagmag A.T.: Far from acceptable
E.W.: By no means bad, but can’t fit it in... .L.W.:
Detective yarn too obviously constructed M.M.C.:
“Amelia” packed off to the nursery F.M.N.: The
best part of it is its title, “Rum and Milk”....
M.M.: Artificial and pretentious Billy: Not within
miles A.F.M.: “The Drug Joke” acts as a
soporific C.F.S.: A washout A.M.: Adapted
from Kipling’s “Bobs,” is it? Well, as the
English cricketers have left, we’ll chance a verse:
As an absentee in England’s future team you will
be greatly missed,
You who, in Melbourne, by Margaret Bannerman at a
reception was publicly kissed,
You’ll remember your birthday on the Sydney Cricket
Ground , .
When you, the cricket hero, was, amidst great
enthusiasm, duly crowned,
Won’t yer, Hobbs?
. ...W.C.: In one month you have noted and classi-
fied 1000 pairs of female legs. The Great Calf-
lover!... .E.P.: That war setting has been so
frequently used... .Liver P.: One sample, as it’s
seasonable:—
I had a look at Strephon
That’s owned by Solly Green,
And. reckon him one of the finest thoroughbreds
I have ever seen.
Bring out your Gloamings, Beaufords,
Limericks, Heroics, Manfreds and others that are
The chestnut that belongs to Sol, who graduated in
the fish trade,
Will wallop the lot.
l. : Since when has the fashionable world
“tired of sophistication and turned bloodshot eyes
in the direction of sincerity”?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C. 8.: The rectangular ladies evoked no enthusiasm.
W.R.: Did you draw it with a pick? N.S.:
Don’t lose heart; you’re coming on R.M.D.:
That joke will have its jubilee this year... .C.L.:
Blithered Jack Tars go back to the ship....
N.S.: Immature; but there is a hint of promise
in the handling of the horse. .. .J.W.P.: Dad is
a libel on dads T.H.U.: Those smudgy beach
sirens! V. J.: Try some other pastime G.8.H.:
Wo’ll do without your bleary-eyed shopwalker
R.M.: Composition weak, penwork untidy, humor
wooden D.D.A.: Effort to extract a joke from
the Campbell-Macdonald feud fails... .E.W.C.: A
church journal might welcome it N.T.: There’s a
lot about technique in your covering letter but you
display little in your work. —R.T.: Badly drawn.
R.H.C.: Two deformed figures and a poor gag.
Coke: Desperately commonplace V.G.: D.B.
M.T.R.: The deadbeat’s interjection is not
humorous D.C.: Rejected promptly 8.A.: Too
scratchy H.J.: Joke which plays on the word
“illiterate” has been worked to death.


9
fj
' T »”v wfWA
/
* M
/
S3®
U
Ufm’M
P g«MSB
- --
.
:■.;:« •:
'isiv .
v? f 4 -.
llta |pi
SMHHI
'
ff
'.'%" V*V -Vi.
my *
m
mpt. r
R
;-q
•*H ; loßt !
* |* *
* / * - ' t
.
, -' //W'f 'Wrfff
i? .*- - -r *
ißiilllli I
iiisipff II
;
J »
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 50.—N0. 2564.
April 3, 1929.
AN OLD LADY DISCOVERS WHAT BANANAS ARE FOR.
“The ARGUS is now using the banana to bring down Australia’s policy of Protection. Pleading the poor quality of the Queensland fruit, it seeks to have the duty on
imports repealed.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspapei
Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
£H George Street, Sydney.
Victoria: IH-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
**? s , ted ,F ree io ANY address in Australasia,
weelly : n months, £1 • 6 months, Its. 6d. ;
o months, 7s.
'Jo ANY ADDRESS Overseas; 72 months, &1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
mV” 0 ™ c °Pi es -—Commonwealth, New Zealand and
1 n ' 10 .°?.-’. ld - United Kingdom: l,oz. to Wnz., lid.:
each additionalJoz., Id. All Sea Itoute: 160 z., lid.
iV 1 oSf * es * 1011 & and U.S.A.: J/oz. or part thereof.
J a. /usewhere, 2oz. s Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED page literary ARTICLES .. 2 5
JUDITH SILVER AND OTHERS .. . ’.2
A Great War Novel .. .. 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. .. r.
A LEASON CARTOON . . . . 7
EDITORIALS g 9
THE IMPERILLED BALDWIN .. . . g
Labor and the Law .. .. .. 8
BUYING BIG LOSSES 9
“THE NEW GOD,” a Percival Cartoon . . .. 9
POLITICS (with caricatures) .. .. .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. .. 44, 49
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. .. ..13
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS .. .. 14,19
COMMONWEALTH GENERAL ASSURANCE’ 14
Caledonian Collieries .. .. 14
R. H. GORDON AND CO 14
LONDON STORES, LTD 14
POVERTY POINT 17
“NOT EDUCATED UP TO IT,” by Scorfield .. 17
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.)' .. ..18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 19, 20
MAN ON THE LAND 22 23
PRIZES FOR FARMERS ’22
Free Service Department 24
SMOKE-OH 28
“A Rogue in Amber” . . 29, 44, 50
PEN AND PICTURE 33
NEW MOVIES AND TALKIES .. ..33
SPORTING (Illustrated) . . . . . . 35, 37, 39
SYDNEY CUP MEETING 35
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 40
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 42
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 43
VERSE .. 47,50
Two Complete Stories
“THE RIVER’S TRIUMPH,”
by Elsie M. Baily .. .. ~ .. 47
“A SONG IN THE NIGHT,”
by Frank Louat .. .. . . 49, 50
'ffuf&ulleUnt
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 3, 1929.
THE IMPERILLED BALDWIN.
The Baldwin Ministry has entered on a
steady run of bad luck at British by-elec-
tions, and prophecies of a thundering down-
fall are in the air. Baldwin assumed the
Prime Ministership on May 22, 1923, and
lost it on January 22, 1924, because his
Government went to the country with a
policy of finding permanent work for the
people—finding it in the way that has been
an outstanding success in the United States,
Canada and Germany. Ramsay Mac-
donald assumed office by grace of Lloyd
George and his Liberals, and had no suc-
cess in finding work for the people; but he
made a wildly-misjudged attempt to facili-
tate the lending of British money to Russia,
the country which had already repudiated
all its debts, and thereby lost the number
of his mess. The Baldwin party won a
great victory in another election at the end
of the year. This time it didn’t make Pro-
tection and the helping of British industry
a definite feature of its programme, but it
has consistently permitted the “safeguard-
ing of industries” by high Protective duties
when both employers and employees in
any occupation so desire.
Now the Baldwin Government is told
that its end is in sight. Even Garvin, of
the Observer, usually a friend, has pre-
dicted a landslide, and mourned in these
words:—
“The country demands something which the
Cabinet refuses—a bold constructive policy
dealing with unemployment. Mr. Baldwin,
on the present showing, is heading for dis-
aster nearly as black as in 1923. It is no
longer a question of losing 100 seats. There
is real danger of losing 150.”
Still, the Baldwin Government made a
rapid and wonderful recovery from the
black disaster of 1923, when it presented “a
bold constructive policy dealing with un-
employment” and was badly misunder-
stood. And it may do so again if the worst
happens.
So far as the “safeguarding of industries”
has gone, it has produced satisfactory re-
sults. The motor-car trade, with £33 6s. Bd.
per cent. Protection, has made a striking
revival, and the export of “vehicles” (ail
lumped together in the return) increased by
eight millions in four years. The manu-
facture of gloves (also helped to the extent
of £33 6s. Bd. per cent.) went up from
301,060 pairs in the last quarter of 1925
to 2,400,492 pairs in the last quarter of
1928. In short, Britain’s protected indus-
tries improved, and its unprotected ones
didn’t. But there were difficulties in the
way. The ironworkers are strong Labor-
unionists, and Laborites were always shout-
ing in their ears that “safeguarding” is
Protection and Protection is damnation.
So that great industry stood out practically
en masse, though the makers of enamelled
hollow-ware, cutlery and motor-cars came
in and seized on 25 and £33 6s. Sd. per cent,
with joy and commonsense. The cotton and
woollen operatives, filled with the jargon
of the Manchester school, also adhered to
the old fiscal myth when others deserted
it, though some of the woollen workers
underwent a belated repentance and took
their case to the Board of Trade, which
was still its postal address when last heard
of. And the seven months’ coal strike of
1926, with the general strike thrown in,
burst many promising hopes.
Now Lloyd George, the Freetrader, has
rushed into the political field with a new
bid for office, and the prospect is for
a George Ministry supported by Ramsay
Macdonald, whereas in 1924 there was a
Ramsay Mac Ministry supported by
George. It is assumed that the arrival of
a George Ministry will mean the sweeping
away of the existing measure of Protection.
For a Freetrade Government to believe in
Protection sufficiently to preserve half a
tariff would be absurd, and to expand it
into a whole tariff would be worse than
ridiculous. On this subject, however, very
little is apparently being said. The idea
with which the Welshman fills up his
electoral poster is to put over 600,000 men
on relief works, and pay them out of
loans, and have them back on his hands
when the first programme is finished. If
this policy appeals strongly to the British
electors the Baldwin Government will
doubtless find itself mixed up with black
disaster, but so far as the loss of its job
is concerned it may not mind very much.
As for the community, it will have plenty
of time to repent.
LABOR AND THE LAW.
To demonstrate their contempt for the
Federal Arbitration Court, their detestation
of one of its Judges and their hatred of
democratic principles, particularly the secret
ballot, the bosses of the IST. S. Wales branch
of the Timber Workers’ Union and the
Reds of the Trades and Labor Council
staged in Sydney last week a procession and
a public burning of ballot-papers, followed
by a burning of an effigy of the offending
Judge. In engineering this spectacle
the promoters had the assistance of all
the Communists in the Trades Hall, and
of the police authorities, who guilelessly
accepted a Communist assurance that there
would be no burnings, although the full
programme had appeared, under flaring
headlines, in that day’s Labor paper. With
police sanction a body of strikers and strike-
eggers and their friends marched through
the streets bearing banners indicating their
disrespectful sentiments towards the Arbi-
tration Court and Judge Lukin, and, as
was inevitable, the proceedings ended in a
riot and a number of arrests.
The demonstration, if it had any in-
telligible purpose, must have been intended
as a threat. Those who took part in it
were under military discipline, and marched
in military formation. They were defying
the law, and they invited the second city of
the Empire to witness their defiance.
Members of the union who are opposed to
the strike had asked for, a ballot, as the
Arbitration Act allows, and the Court had
issued the necessary order. Fearful that
the ballot would result in the defeat of the
strike, the union bosses, who are paid to be
the union’s servants, commanded members
of the union to vote in their presence.
That device failing, owing to the Govern-
ment’s interposition, they drew up their
jilans for the bonfire of ballot-papers and
caused it to be announced that members
absent from the ceremony would be “dis-
ciplined,” otherwise blacklisted and ruined.
And all this because the city section
of the union has been required, by award,
to work 48 hours per week, instead of 44
hours. The country section has always
worked 48 hours. When, some years ago,
the union got an award that reduced hours
for the city section and increased pay, and
made the increase retrospective jor two
years, its bosses’ respect for the Court’s
authority was boundless. The law was in-
voked. and invoked successfully, to ensure
that the employers should pay to the utter-
most farthing, and partly from this cause
the industry has been in a bad way ever
since. Now there is a new award which
the union bosses say is an unfavorable one,
and the union bosses are conducting a law T-
less strike. What is more, men who dare
to work are daily assaulted by gangs of
bullies in lonely spots. In some instances
their faces have been kicked in.
This defiance of law is condoned,
where it is not enthusiastically cheered,
by Labor politicians, from the highest to
the lowest. Mr. Scullin, Federal leader of
the party, who says he approves of the
principle of arbitration, thoroughly approves
of the attack on the principle, and has
indulged in a diatribe against Court, Judges
and Federal Government, who are, in his
view, conspiring to make a “deliberate
and unwarranted attack on the hours, wages
and living conditions of the Australian
worker.” Marching in the front rank of
last week’s ballot-burning expedition was
a Labor M.L.C., who has taken a solemn
oath to respect and uphold the law. Near
him was an ex-Minister of the Crown. The
theory is that “Labor” (meaning perhaps a
clique which has seized control of a union)
has a right to decide what laws it shall
obey and to challenge the authority of any
Government or Court whose enactments or
decisions displease it. Government if such
an attitude is suffered or condoned is
impossible.
Protests against industrial law are in-
creasingly coupled with acts of mob
violence. The Melbourne bombings indi-
cate the lengths to which an atmosphere
of law-defiance will lead. If, as recent
events seem to show, it is impossible .to
enforce arbitration awards, and if every
attempt to enforce them results in criminal
reprisals, the sooner the arbitration laws
are removed from the Statute Books the
better. The corollary that if one law or set
of laws may safely be flouted all laws can
be defied is easily grasped, and it ought
never to to be forgotten that there is an
active association of mob leaders bent on
“socialising the means of production by
revolutionary political and industrial action,”
which means robbery with violence on a
vast scale.
THE GREAT AIRCRAFT ILLUSION.
Three army ’planes, black against a blue
heaven, flying over Sydney’s Taronga Park
in a sort of spearhead formation, set my
naval friend off. In some miraculous
fashion, the two behind, on either flank of
the leader, kept their distance from him
and each other unvaryingly equal. I
cricked my neck with enthusiasm, and
observed smugly what a lot we’d owe the
flying man when trouble came again.
“Maybe,” the naval man snorted. “P’r’aps
we shall. All the same it gives me a pain
to listen to the twitter of the birdmen and
their friends, especially politicians who have
seen nothing of war. Going to prevent in-
vasion, check raids and look after trade
routes, the birdmen are. Reconnaissances
and warning against attack and concentra-
tion in force to defeat attack—we can leave
it all to them. And this rubbish goes down,
too. It is well received, because air defence
is supposed to be cheap. No defence is
cheap that doesn’t succeed.
“The defence of a country consists in giving
security to its territory and its interests.
It’s just the same for Australia as for Eng-
land—if you limit the thing to territorial
defence you face only half the problem,
and the less important half. No need to
worry, the birdmen say. Because of their
mobility they can go anywhere and defeat
an invader wherever he chooses to land.
And do it cheap, too.
“But a nation’s object in going to war
is to force a people to agree to something
they won’t have unless the requisite force
is applied. An enemy could do that much
better with a naval blockade than by risk-
ing an army that he’s not certain of being
able to keep supplied and is scared of
losing touch with altogether. With an
effective blockade you could strangle this
country. And no army and no air
force could prevent such a stranglehold
being put on. Only sea power could pre-
vent it. Invasion of Australia is out of the
question so long as Imperial sea power is
kept up.”
“But what about raids?” I put in. The
three ’planes must have been in the aero-
drome at Richmond by this time.
“Oh, raids? Nothing much in raids. If
our sea power were all right the enemy
would have quite enough to do in looking
after his own coasts and wouldn’t have any
naval forces available for these, after all,
pretty ineffective enterprises. But he might
try to create diversions by attacking trade
so as to draw ships away from the main
theatre of operations. And it is likely enough
that by bombarding undefended ports he
might seek to increase the tendency to
bring about a withdrawal of fighting ships
from that theatre.
“Well, suppose he did? What are the
air forces going to do about it? They
can’t stop raiding cruisers which descend
suddenly on the focal points off the Leeuwin,
or Melbourne, or Sydney, scupper a few
ships and clear out again, as the Emden did.
It’s all nonsense to suppose that aircraft
could spot a cruiser and call up swift flying
squadrons to destroy her. ’Planes can’t stay
up for ever in any weather, and they’ll
find it most infernally hard to recognise
ships. Air reconnaissance talk is nonsense, in
the face of the difficulty of identification.
But suppose a scout does recognise a raider?
He’s got to get assistance from any distance
up to 50 miles away. Where will she be
when the machines arrive? And if a
squadron of bombing ’planes does reach
her, can they put her out of action?
“About bombardments? Well, they’re
sudden, daybreak jobs, as a rule. The raider
comes close up at night, and gets nasty as
soon as it’s light enough to see. Or she
sneaks in after dark, as the Emden did
at Madras. What reconnaissance could pre-
cede her arrival? The damage is all done
in half an hour or so. About all the air-
men can do is to chase her away—pelt her
out of it—after she’s done what she wanted
to do. Even if they sink her, the mischief’s
done. I don’t see how they’re going to
stop it.
“Australia has an important coastal trade.
Aircraft can’t protect it—unless, indeed,
there are thousands of ’em. And what about
cheapness then? I have no patience with
these silly efforts to persuade the Govern-
ment to put its trust wholly in an increased
air force. It is a force which can give no
security against such possible attacks as
may be made. The birdmen have their
value, but as a substitute for naval defence
they are a bad joke.
“Talking about birdmen, let’s go and look
at the parrot-house!”
J.H.M.A.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Case of the I’m Alone.
Rum-running is a nefarious trade, and
there is a belief that it is associated with
dope-running, which is more nefarious still.
British subjects engaging in it and caught
in the act of violating the Prohibition law
of a friendly nation deserve all they get.
A tendency to strain international law in
the effort' to catch the slippery rum-runner
must also be allowed for. All the same, the
sinking by U.S. guns of the British or Can-
adian vessel I’m Alone has unusual features.
The I’m Alone is described as a notorious
rum-runner of five years’ running, but she
had no previous convictions at the time of
sinkage. The case, as stated by the assail-
ants (and denied by the defenders), is that
they first sighted her in U.S. waters, within
12 miles of the Louisiana coast, and that
being so they had a right to pursue and
sink her anywhere. The distance off the
coast is variously stated, but eight miles
is the general swear. The craft was sent
to the bottom, with the loss of one life, 200
miles off the coast, the captain having re-
fused to surrender. The survivors were
brought ashore heavily ironed and with
great pomp and ceremony.
This recalls an episode on the Philippine
coast when Aguinaldo was tearing round
in the cause of liberty. The good, if not
beautiful, British ship Yuen Sang was
chug-chugging along at the dead of night
on her beat from Manila to Hong Kong,
the mate in charge and the skipper lying
down. The skipper awoke to find himself
half-way up to the bridge, with an idea that
something of moment was happening. The
something was that projectiles were flying
over his ship, and that the sea was alight
with signals. Having stopped the ship and
blown the whistle three or 13 times to show
that he was taking notice the Britisher
waited. Presently he was boarded by
United States authority, which informed
him that sneaking along within three or
four miles of the coast was forbidden, and
was evidence of the serious crime of gun-
running.
The British shipmaster demonstrated by
a cross-bearing or something that the dis-
tance was more like 18 miles. The pained
silence which ensued merged into an ex-
planation that the U.S. officers were very
young and lacking in experience. In the
end the Yuen Sang stood drinks and
promised to ignore the episode. As it spent
a great part of its shabby existence along
that shore and had no desire to make
enemies it was the best course to pursue.
4
The Deadly Wire.
Within the last few weeks there has been
quite an epidemic of electrocutions in N. S.
Wales and Queensland. The Newcastle
coroner had three inquests of the kind hi
one day, and there were three cases in Bris-
bane within a few hours.
Accidents of this sort fall mostly into one
of three categories. In the first, in which
electrical workers are the victims, they are
usually ascribed either to the neglect of
such precautions as the use of insulated
gloves or to a recklessness induced by long
immunity. In the second the most typical
fatalities are those caused by contact with
the flexible connection of a lamp, iron,
vacuum-cleaner or other portable appli-
ance the insulation of which has become
defective. The cases in the third class are
due to faults in electric installation —which
does not necessarily mean that the material
or workmanship was faulty in the first
place. A Sydney youth leaned against a
telephone booth and received a severe
shock. A butcher was electrocuted while
lifting a carcase from the hook; a week-
ender while getting water from a tap.
In earlier days many deaths were annually
traceable to amateur efforts to effect switch-
board repairs, such as the renewal of burnt
fuses. The type of household installation
adopted in recent years discourages such in-
terferences; nevertheless, fooling with a
switchboard is still a popular pastime.
Ignorance of danger is a feature in most of
the accidents reported. It seems a matter
of perennial surprise to many people that
a thin, twisted strand of wire should be
able to carry enough current to kill a man,
but it can, and—as the many recent inquests
have proved—it does.
The first line of defence against such
mishaps, of course, is the cultivation of
a proper respect for electricity, and a realisa-
tion that to tamper ignorantly with elec-
trical fittings is like fooling with a loaded
gun. The second, as has been emphasised
by coroners, is the periodical examination
of eveiy installation by competent elec-
tricians in the public employ. Such inspec-
tions are made by some municipalities at
present, and there is good reason why the
precaution should be made universal and
compulsory.
Victoria’s Transport Mess.
A committee which has been touring the
various States has come back to Melbourne
and advised the McPherson Govemmem
to establish a Ministry of Transport.
If the scheme is approved of there will oe
no new portfolio. The Minister lor Rail-
ways will cease to be such and resurrect


THE NEW GOD.
himself as boss of the new department,
which will have two sections—one to deal
with the city tangle and another to handle
the country’s problems. The Motor-’bus
Destruction Board, the traffic section of
the Country Roads Board and other wrang-
ling and uncoordinated bodies will also
be merged in it.
Certainly something will have to be done
to clear up the mess the State’s transport
has got into. At present it is nothing for
the Destruction Board to order a paying
line of private ’buses off the road and for
the Railway Commissioners to then run a
losing service of their own, and charge the
deficit up to the public.
♦
Providing Against Sharks.
“X.N.0.”: Sydney seaside councils have been
performing mental gymnastics nearly all
the summer over the question of shark-
proofing the beaches.
The keeping out of the shark is the least
difficult part of the problem; the real
difficulty is to devise something that will
stand a rough sea.
A breakwater would do that. But inside
a breakwater there would be no surf, and
the cost would be great. The question then
is, “Will anything less substantial (steel
rods, for instance) stand the pounding
of the waves?” The answer is “Very prob-
ably not,” because anything depending
mainly on the strength of its integral parts
to oppose a rigid resistance to the seas is
likely to offer such a substantial area of
obstruction that, sooner or later, it must
be seriously damaged.
Suppose we look at the problem as one of
seamanship. The practical seaman is
used to putting things in the sea that are
designed to stay there. He anchors a 25,000-
ton ship with a six-ton anchor in a howling
gale. Why? Because he is applying the
principle that if you cannot use great intrin-
sic strength you can provide elasticity. It
is the sudden impact of a wave against a
rigid structure that causes the damage. The
force of impact is colossal, else how could
a half-pound hammer drive a two-inch nail
into wood with the expenditure of so little
human energy? But take away the bench
under the wood, leaving it supported at the
ends only, and the elasticity of the timber
will prevent that nail from going in a
quarter of an inch.
If, therefore, in devising our shark pro-
tection we can discard inherent strength
in the structure and substitute elasticity we
can build something of quite light steel
wire that can be raised and lowered with
simple mechanism when the weather is very
bad, or weekly for purposes of inspection
and to clear it of weed. It could be stowed
away in winter and frequently oiled when in
use. The cost would be very small; so
small that two could be put in place, one
down and one up.
The man to call in for advice is primarily
a seaman, with a consulting engineer to
help with the end and corner supports—the
rigid parts of the structure.
-4
Loan Expenditure in Queensland.
From State Under-Secretary Stanley:—
In “Debts and Taxes” (B. 20/3/’29) it
is stated that loan outgoings
for the year were £9.297,885. ...
Although these figures are contained in the
has every right to call the tune, to register
displeasure if the tune isn’t played, and to
require that its criticisms shall be swallowed
in silence.
The modem cricketer can be as inde-
pendent as he likes in private life, but
in his capacity of public performer he
is a member of a well-remunerated troupe of
entertainers, no more and no less. As such
he is under an obligation to give value for
his public’s money, and to behave with
disciplined restraint when the public exer-
cises its right of intimating that, in its
opinion, value is not being given.
♦
Buying Big Losses.
During the financial year 1927-28 the six
States spent £44,645,082 of loan money,
which was a record, and of this £14,939,587
was for railways. N. S. Wales was respon-
sible for well over eight millions of the rail-
way expenditure, which was a Ma State
record. Sudden activity of this sort almost
suggested that railway construction had
become a promising investment, like picture-
shows. Yet the year had been the most
unprofitable in the State’s railway history.
N. S. Wales has 28 railways which, on the
1927-28 figures, it would be economy to close
up and forget, if the material couldn’t be
sold. The 28 are these:—
Saving Saving
in One in One
Year if Year if
Line had Line had
Length been never been
Name. Miles. Closed. Built.
Fassifern-Toronto .. .. 3 £5,531 £7,624
Clyde-Carlingford .. .. 5 13,082 16,342
Cobar-C.S.A. Mines .. 7 28 1,459
Richmond-Kurrajong . . 7 8,192 15,739
Westmead-Rogan’s Hill .. 18 17,023 25,150
Matalana-Mount Hope .. 10 Closed 1,601
Nevertire-Warren .. .. 13 2,229 4,866
Roslyn-Tavalga .. .. 15 3,376 12,269
Tarana-Oberon .. .. 15 1,883 10,467
Culcairn-Holbrook .. .. 17 1,882 5,210
Galong-Boorowa .. • • 18 499 <>ll2
Gilmore-Cunama .. . . 22 2,313 16,596
Kiatna-Nowra . . . . 23 2,629 23,503
Craboon-Coolah .. .. 24 1,021 8,341
The Rock-Westby .. 26 505 9,861
Koorawatha-Grenfell .. 32 631 7,306
Henty-Rand .. .. 33 75 9>854
Tarrawingee .. .. 40 891 2,648
Glenreagh-Dorrigo.. .. 44 9,564 80,862
Culcaim-Corowa .. • • 48 2,354 15,645
Byrock-Brewarrina • • 58 10,397 19,989
Taimvorth-Barraba. . . . 61 1,424 16,473
Cootamundra-Tumut . . 65 12,664 46,799
Bogan Gate-Tottenham .. 72 94,068 109,968
The Rock-Oaklands . . 78 180 16,638
Wagga-Tumbavumba • • 80 7,464 45,869
Demondrille-Blayney . . 11l 31,507 106,056
Nyngan-Bourke .. • • 126 11,901 52,374
10.71 £243,313 £696,621
A line such as that from Nyngan to
Bourke has merits, for it covers a lot of
country, doesn’t jostle with a maze of com-
peting* lines, is only a moderate loser for
its size, and may be worth extension some
day. Glenreagh-Dorrigo should do better
if extended to the tableland and connected
with the north-western system at Invere.il.
thus making it a definite road from some-
where to the sea. But the great mass of
little politically-engineered scraps are very
hopeless, and a wonderful number of them
are very new. Consequently they were
built at absurd cost in wages and interest.
The difference between the first money
column and the second represents the inter-
est bill, which shows that it has become
quite possible for the usury charge on a
single-track country line to exceed £lOOO
“Quarterly Summary of Australian Statis-
tics,” the Commonwealth Statistician does
not explain that lie has included the sum of
£5,845,378, being the net accumulated ex-
penditure to June 30, 1927, on account of
advances by the Agricultural Bank, advances
for the erection of Workers’ homes and
adjustments in respect of _ expenditure on
State sugar-mills and coalmines.
The expenditure by the State of Queens-
land from the loan fund during 1927-28
amounted to £4,038,885. This does not in-
clude £149,536 expended on the South Bns-
bane-Kyogle railway.
In the statement “State Loan Expen-
diture,” published by the Commonwealth
Statistician, that official includes net expen-
diture only, that is, expenditure after allow-
ing for repayments to the loan fund on
account of loans to local bodies and other
services, such as those mentioned in the
second paragraph of this letter. The net loan
expenditure last year, after allowing for
adjustments of this nature and for expendi-
ture on the South Brisbane-Kyogle railway
amounted to £3.198,507. The net . increase
in the public debt was £4,993,363, aftei
allowing for the amount to the credit of
sinking fund.
Cricket’s New Status.
Incidents of the recent Test matches indi-
cate that international cricket has acquired
a new status. It has ceased to be a sport
and has become a show; and the same
applies largely to Australian inter-State and
English County cricket.
The factor chiefly responsible is, of course,
gate-money. The enormous sums paid by
the public to see first-class matches have
had the effect of modifying the whole out-
look and attitude of the players. Before
the war a professional was a domestic
servant. He touched his cap to ‘gentle-
men” (meaning nomprofessionals, paid and
otherwise), used a different gate and dress-
ing-room on every London and County
ground, was denied the prefix “Mr.” in the
newspapers, and did not stay at the same
hotels as the “gentlemen.”
That is all changed now. Amateurs and
professionals fraternise a good deal more
than theatrical stars and the minor lights
of touring companies do; and the press has
recognised the new development by with-
drawing the discriminatory “Mr.” Often the
pros, get more consideration than the
amateurs. It is a matter of their monetary
value to the producers of the entertainment.
Ninety per cent, of the modern cricket-
watching public cares as little whether a
champion learnt, his art at Eton or on a
mining-field as theatregoers care about the
origin of an actor.
But the public does demand certain stan-
dards of behavior. For example, a cardinal
offence in a stage-performer is to quarrel
with his audience. A few have done it —
“Little Tich” is a notorious case —but
they have usually caused something in the
nature of a riot, and they have invariably
earned stern rebukes from their managers.
In some cases their engagements have been
terminated.
There are still people in England who
consider it an outrage that a cricketer who
turns a match into a farce should be bar-
racked—a convention of the era when
yokels saw the squire bat on the village
green for nothing. Nowadays, the public
pays the cricketing piper top prices, and it
per mile per annum. Most of the works on
the list are dead-ends, in varying states
of deadness.
One reason assigned why 1927-28 was the
record year for railway loan expenditure
and why another wonderful year looms
ahead is that it is advisable to get the
undertakings on hand finished so that trains
may begin to sprint along them and lose
interest and expenses. It looks a rotten
proposition, but doubtless the intentions
are good. The prospect of earning £440,000
more net railway revenue (revenue left
after covering working charges) per annum
to pay interest on last year’s railway loans
alone isn’t worth a mention; still less is the
chance of earning an extra £750,000 per
annum to pay interest on the entire Bavin-
Buttinshaw “works” expenditure for
1927-28. The effort to collect another
£750,000 in taxes may start some sort of
taxpayers’ strike.
N. S. Wales is buying losses at any price.
—♦
Our Island Trade.
“Bouragi”: From the point of view of the
Papua and New Guinea settler, the best
thing the Federal Government has done
for the twin Territories was the suspension
of the coastal clauses of the Navigation
Act, as far as they were concerned. This
increased facilities for marketing copra,’the
principal product, by permitting it to be
shipped direct to overseas markets in vessels
which could not otherwise have complied
with the conditions of the Act. .The sus-
pension has benefited both the individual
and the community, as Hubert Murray has
not been slow to note.
In view of the fact that increased pros-
perity in the Territories involves the lighten-
ing of the financial burden incurred in
connection with them, one would have
thought that the new situation would be
satisfactory to the Federal authorities.
This does not appear to be the case. A
deputation of individuals interested in the
shipping trade between Sydney and the
Islands waited on Federal Minister Marr
and asked that the suspended clauses of the
Act be re-imposed. The reply was that the
matter was under consideration, and that
some safeguard might be substituted. In the
meantime, the matter had been referred
to the Tariff Board for report.
The absurd claim was made by the ship-
ping interests that the section of the Act
had been suspended for the benefit of Aus-
tralian shipping, which objective had not
been reached. The suspension was made to
give the settlers and planters in the Terri-
tories a chance to market their produce
under fair conditions —to liberate them, in
short, from a virtual monopoly which
dragged shipments intended for overseas
markets thousands of miles out of the way
to Sydney. To return to the old order of
things would mean eventual insolvency for
both Territories.
If the Island-Sydney shipping interests
desire to protect themselves against the
threat levelled at them by their overseas
competitors they will have to cut their
freight rates. At present it costs about £6
a ton to ship produce to Sydney The
N.D.L. is quoting 655. from New Guinea
to European markets.


I
■MfU
LsJD
/
*
/
On the highways of the
world satisfied motorists
are daily proving the
superiority of
MOTOR
OIL
SHELL
MOTOR
SPIRIT
S 752
POLITICAL
POIMTS
The Westralian Collier Government got
its Redistribution of Seats Bill through the
Ex-Speaker Taylor
Leg. Assembly by 26
to 16, but as 26 votes
were necessary—an
absolute majority of a
House of 50 members
—it was a near thing.
The scheme does away
with five goldfields
seats (Cue, Coo I-
gardie, Menzies, Leon-
ora and Mt. Mar-
garet) and gives them
to Perth. Four of the
constituencies to be
extinguished are
Labor pocket bor-
oughs, and the party
had an even-money
chance in the fifth—
Mt. Margaret, which
ex - Speaker “Mulga”
Taylor has repre-
sented for 28 years.
In this matter, as in
others, the Westralian
Labor Government
has shown its superi-
ority to the Labor
Government respon-
sible for the electoral
abominations in Queensland.
Unclean dates from Mesopotamia with
dirty Arab footprints on them were men-
tioned recently to the Tariff Board, in the
course of a demand for more duty. But
more duty wouldn’t make the Arab wash his
feet, though he might put more dirt in the
fruit so that the gain one w r ay might com-
pensate for the loss in another. Abdul
Euphrates, whom Younghusband described as
“the lowest skunk oil earth,” is quite capable
of selling plain dirt and leaving out the
dates. The best way is to put the article
on a new list of prohibited imports. If the
Australian is slow at learning to grow his
own date supply he might eat more raisins
to fill in the interval.
The Royal Commission which has been
considering the woes of South Aus. recom-
fK/Swt a s P ec * a l Commonwealth grant of
±500.000 a year for two years. YVestralia
Siting a “disabilities” allowance of
£600,000 p.a., and the Central State's neces-
sities are greater, while it hits its taxpayers
harder. Says the Royal Commisison: —
Direct taxation in S. Aus. is on a par with that
of Queensland ; in both States it is higher per head
than in the others. Motor taxation in South Aus.
is the highest in the Commonwealth.
The trouble may be that Bruce-Page will
say it hasn’t two shillings to jingle on a
tombstone.
Tallangatta (Vic.) has a special interest
in the report of the advisory committee now
inquiring into the Ilume Weir project. If
the report is in favor of building the dam
to the height originally proposed the town-
ship will be submerged. If the reduced
plan is approved Tallangatta survives. The
sooner residents are relieved of their
suspense the fairer.
The N.S.W. Industrial Commission, of
which ‘‘Good ole Piddo” is chairman, is
Industrial
Commissioner
Piddington.
expected to decide
upon an abstraction
called the basic wage.
“Piddo” is evidently
persuaded that, iii
view of all the legis-
lative trimmings with
which Lang endea-
vored to improve the
lot of the wage-earner,
the basic-wage rate
will have to come
down, but after many
months’ cogitation of
the possibility he has
come to the conclu-
sion that it wouldn't
do for his commission,
or debating society, or
whatever it is, to
make a decision un-
less Parliament were
in session, so that
Parliament could im-
mediately do some-
thing about it. Tradi-
tionally, Judges are
not supposed to worry
about Parliaments or
Governments their
job is to administer the laws as they find
them, and if they find them bad and un-
workable to say so plainly ; but “Piddo” is
different.
“His verbiage reeks with the stench of
putrescence,” said Hughes of Earle Page,
his medical antagonist leaving inelegantly
likened him to an abscess. Still, William
himself has been known to pick metaphors
for controversial purposes from fields no
more attractive than the operating table.
Wasn’t it he who once referred to an ex-
colleague of Labor days as having a mind
that suggested “a toad in a cesspool”?
Most of the nations bordering on the
Pacific are getting busy in the empyrean.
The TJ.S.A. has just added heavily to its air
force, and Japan is hurriedly repairing weak-
nesses in its air-force equipment. China has
just started a commercial air service, and
built its first aeroplane at Canton. Even little
Siam has provided itself with a small but
efficient set of wings. Bull, for his part, pro-
poses to spend over half a million on the
air base at Singapore.
The high cost of transport is a bar to
closer settlement on the Barkly Tableland.
To carry stores from the railhead at Dajarra
(Queensland) to Anthony’s Lagoon costs
£4O a ton. If the Dajarra-Camooweal line
were completed and a light line constructed
by the Commonwealth Government across
the tableland, the freight rate for stores to
Brunette ought not to exceed £5 per ton.
and for wool railed to the coast it would
be less. Then things would move.
The timber workers’ strike is a small and
purposeless business, but it has been run
with an organisation and ferocity which are
out of the ordinary. This is ascribed to the
fact that the management is in the hands
of an experienced disturber who arrived here
quite recently, and instead of taking to any
productive employment proceeded to knock
Australian laws about in the regulation
fashion. Australia is bossed a great deal
too much by imported parties with no legal,
visible and productive occupation.
The South African Parliament elected in
June, 1924, has completed its legislative job.
Its passing was marked by the holding of
mass meetings calling upon the Governor-
General to withhold his assent from the
most-favored-nation treaty with Germany.
The issues between Nationalist-Labor and
Smuts’s South African party are fairly clear.
Smuts will go to the country as an oppo-
nent of the treaty; Ilertzog is banking on
the native question. Labor is split into
two factions, and seems certain to lose
.ground.
In Westralia lately there has been an
unusual number of claims under the Work-
ers’ Compensation Act from Slav timber
workers. Many of these immigrants have
received handsome compensation for lopped
toes, and there is a growing suspicion that
the money is valued more than the toes. The
Government is to investigate, the State In-
surance Department having been the prin-
cipal sufferer —private offices have turned
down this class of business.
The Melbourne theatres which are show-
ing talking pictures asked Chief Sec. Argyle
to grant them exemption from the quota
law because of the shortage of Australian
or British talkies. The exemption expired
on April 1, so the theatres will be obliged
to intersperse silent pictures with their
speaking film —a bad mixture, as most exhi-
bitors admit. The result should be a seri-
ous attempt to make Australian talkies on
an extensive scale, which is all to the good.
It is no good trying to make heroes
.or oppressed victims of the ruffians
who periodically cause international inci-
dents by their failures to break the
TI.S.A. liquor laws. If u householder sees
a stranger hanging about in a fast car,
with a mask, a revolver and burgling tools
apparently ready for use, it is his duty to
call the police, and it is the duty of the
police to arrest the suspect. And if the
latter resists or flees, the police are entitled
to fire after due warning. That is good sense,
as well as good law, and it is the principle
which has been at the back of several cases
before the I’m Alone one. If American adven-
turers began a similar campaign of defiance
of the British Customs laws there would be
similar sinkings, and the support of the
nation and of civilisation would be solidly
behind the sinkers.
One of the ambitions on which the Tariff
Board has been incubating is that of having
all Australia’s cotton goods made locally
from Australian cotton. The report came
to hand recently after nine months’ incu-
bation. There were high hopes, and there
was said to be a positive promise, that the
Government would give a definite expression
of its views before closing time, but the Gov-
ernment was so anxious to got away after
25 working days that it took the report
with it, and it won’t be back for soma
months. Its hatred of Canberra outweighs
its craving for hard work. Still the Govern-
ment gave an undertaking that, a bounty
would be paid on newsprint manufactured
out of Australian timber, which was encour-
aging, and members discovered that they
were drinking out of imported and not even
British glasses, which wasn’t.
Farmer John Allan’s attack on Premier
McPherson will make it almost impossible
John Allan.
for the Vic. National-
ists to work in with
him again, even as a
half-Premier, and the
Country Progressive
group has no use for
the irascible John.
Walter is now the out-
standing man. of the
Cocky 10 in the
Assembly, and if
Allan would gracefully
stand down the mem-
ber for Gippsland
West would make a
leader with vim and
driving force. He is
no orator nor even a
finished debater, but
is straightforward,
game and tactful, and
bears no malice after
a fight. In combina-
tion he and Dunstan,
leader of the Progs.,
would be rather for-
midable. If all the
non-Labor country
members of the Asserri-
bly formed one party
of 27, with a metropolitan section of 10,
Walter could not possibly be consigned to
the rank and file.
The “humanitarianism” which consists in
releasing long-term prisoners in the belief
that they will be good in future has had two
striking advertisements in Westralia. One
supposed reformed character celebrated his
restoration to the responsibilities of citizen-
ship by killing a police-sergeant who inter-
fered to prevent his murdering a barman;
another, Callahan, let out about the same
time, has gone back for five years (at least,
the Judge made it five years) for uttering
forged orders on the Public Works Depart-
ment. Callahan achieved some notoriety on
the goldfields during the war and after as
a leader of “militant” unionism. Burnside,
.T., awarded him seven years in April, 1923,
for attempted robbery under arms, and it
was his fate to come before Burnside, J., on
the uttering charge. He spat insults at the
Judge before he was led away.
Coal negotiations always come up against
the same obstacle. The original proposal
was that the miners and mine-owners should
each sacrifice Is. per ton, and that X. S.
Wales should put up a subsidy of 2s. per ton
and the Commonwealth one of a shilling to
make a ss. reduction in price. Everyone
was agreeable except the miners. Then a
deputation of Labor members turned up with
a solution of the problem. The State was
to put up 3s. a ton and the miners no thing.
Premier Bavin replied that it would cost
over £1,000,000 a year, and there was no
such spare sum in the Treasury, which was
certainly true; there is practically nothing
in the Treasury except the child-endowment
shortage. The next suggestion was for a
conference, and Bavin naturally desired to
know what there was to confer about when
he hadn’t the money. So no progress was
made.
While the Sydney bosses of the Timber
Workers’ organisation
were arranging their
brainless burlesque of
the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court,
Walsh and Johanson,
who also held the
Court in supreme con-
tempt, were applying
to it for registration
of the rival seamen’s
unions. The applica-
tions were rejected on
the ground that
neither show was re-
presentative; Walsh’s,
the Registrar said,
claims only 423
adherents, and Johan-
son ’s 2231, whereas
there are 6000 sea-
men on the coast. And
the whole 6000 were
once unionists. To such
a pass has “militancy”
brought what used to
he one of the strong-
Tom Walsh.
est and richest unions in Australia, while the.
harm it has done to individual members and
fellow-unionists, to the shipping industry
and to industries dependent on it for trans-
port, is incalculable.
The Vic. Prohibitionists have already
begun their house-to-house canvass prelimi-
nary to the State-wide referendum. At pre-
sent it looks as if the verdict will be just
as pronounced as in N.S.W. to leave things
as they are. The Licenses Reduction Board
is doing fine work, and more will be achieved
by that efficient body than by half a dozen
expensive polls, whether voting is compul-
sory or voluntary.
The fact that persistent attempts have
been made lately to break into the Mel-
bourne City Council’s powder magazine sug-
gests that the last has not been heard of
bomb-throwing. Recently two dogs placed
on guard over the arsenal were poisoned.
Arbitration Judge Beeby has granted
rises of from 60 to 75 p.c. to the workers
employed on the construction of the arch of
Sydney’s Harbor bridge; and for once there
are no objectors. During the hearing of the
claim tragic proof that the work is ex-
tremely dangerous was furnished by the
death in shocking circumstances of one of
the men affected, an ex-Digger, who held
the D.C.M. He fell 160 feet and was prac-
tically cut to pieces by a running chain.
Judge Beeby made the new award retro-
spective to January 22; and again the public
is with him.
The Commonwealth Arbitration Court
ordered a secret ballot of timber workers to
find out whether the majority was really
in favor of the strike. Certain individuals,
mostly imported, had a great desire that the
workers should not be allowed any free
expression of their views, and commanded
them, first, only to mark their “secret” ballot-
papers with a union official looking on. Then
they said that the ballot-papers would have
to be brought to a public bonfire, which was
to include the burning of the Arbitration
Judge in effigy, and that heavy penalties
would be imposed on any available
member of the union who failed to attend.
City processions being illegal without
a permit, a permit was granted to Garden,
an imported person of notoriously un-
peaceful character. The event came off
with uproar and some street fighting, and
was fully reported, with photographs of the
Judge’s effigy. Minister Bruxner neverthe-
less asserted in the S. M. Herald that there
had been no disturbance and no burnt Judge.
Immediately below his pallid disclaimer
appeared an item about seven men who
appeared at the police court “as a sequel
to the riot in George-street.” The Labor
Daily poster also made Bruxner’s denial
ridiculous; it read: “Judge Lukin Burnt in
Hyde Park by 25,000 Disgusted Workers.”
A NEW PRECEDENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘Mr. Bavin, having been ordered a sea voyage,
will travel to England as a private citizen at nis
own expense. His colleagues urged him to make the
trip an official one, as former Premiers have done,
there being always sufficient State business in London
to justify such a course, but Mr. Bavin refused to
take such an advantage of his position.”
He will go lienee —mayhap to far Soho—
Not as some statesmen that we wot of go
With the entourage, retinue or suite
That their importance makes them reckon
meet.
Un-secretaried and un-valeted
For our illustrious Empire’s hub lie’ll head.
On no ambassadorial pretence,
But casually at his own expense
He will go hence.
He would not heed well-meaning tongues
a-buzz,
Reminding him what ev’ry Premier does
When nerves get frayed or wanderlust
enthralls,
Or London, for whatever reason, calls.
“Hold on,” they urged, “there’s always some-
thing there
To give a visit an official air.
The A.-G.’s office may have run to seed,
Financial matters constant notice need.”
He would not heed.
Upon his own he boards a boat, like you
Or I or anybody else might do,
Upon whose shoulders do not rest the weight
Of being spokesman for a sovereign State
And knowing, wheresoe’er you take your
way,
A grateful country will the bills defray.
No drums or trumpets shall be banged and
blown
When he embarks or lands. He travels lone
Upon his own.
He foots his fare —a precedent (perhaps)
That may embarrass less quixotic chaps
Who, once they win to office, never doubt
Whatever jaunts they’re on the State should
shout,
And take good care, whether it’s play or biz,
They get the best of ev’rything that is.
Now Londonwards goes one, a solitaire,
And —something more phenomenally rare—
He foots his fare.
N.S.W.
IFOED.


SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Carel”: The stout woman sitting in front
of me in the ’bus was telling her thin neigh-
bor about her visit to the fortune-teller.
“ ’E told me there was money coinin’ to me,”
she said impressively. The thin one merely
looked bored. “’E told me I was going to a
weddin’ shortly.” Her companion yawned
ostentatiously. “And,” concluded the. stout
lady triumphantly, “ ’e told me that me hus-
band was goin’ to die in 12 months!”
The other sat suddenly erect. “See ’ere,”
she cut in, her voice trembling with excite-
ment, “just give me ’is address, will yor ?’-’
MEDDLESOME MAMMA.
“Who is that red-haired vamp in green that’s been chasing
me round all the evening?”
“I didn’t see the crime committed, but from your description
I should say it’s the mater chicken-stealing again.”
“Old 68” : Bluey was in Caulfield military
hospital with a bad luemorrhage, and after
six weeks or so of starvation was feeling
peckish. He called to a passing nurse,
“Iley, Sister, what about a feed? I’m just
as hollow as a sieve.” Sister grinned.
“You know you can’t have it,” she told him.
“Put on your earphones; the wireless will
help take your mind off yourself.” Bluey
ruefully obeyed, but the next minute threw
them off and cursed luridly. “What’s up?”
I asked. “It’s a blarsted talk on cookery,”
he returned disgustedly.
if if ’ * *
“I. O. Uwins”: A Canadian M.P. was
recently arrested on a serious charge—upon
which he has since been convicted and sen-
tenced to a long term of imprisonment —“as
he was leaving the House.” Presumably
the officers of the law couldn’t pursue him
into the sacred precincts of Parliament,
which remains a sanctuary for members
against whom nothing more than a civil
process is threatened. A few years ago there
was a Westralian M.L.A. for whom all-
night sittings had no terrors, or fewer
ones than the writters who, he had good
reason to believe, were waiting for him out-
side. He never emerged from his city of
refuge for the best part of a week, after
having equipped himself with a sufficiency of
rugs and decided which of the benches
offered the best sleeping accommodation.
Finally his party, or some of them, came to
his assistance and settled his most pressing
liabilities, or he might have stayed there till
recess. I imagine his immunity would have
departed then.
* * * $
“Amity” : An old lady of my acquaintance
always sits in the tram “with her back to
the horses” (B. 27/3/’29), although she con-
fesses she feels the motion acutely when
seated that way. “The advantage is,”
she explains, “that all the people who get in
and don’t get seated before the tram starts
fall on the passengers sitting the other
way.” And to those folk who have been
clutched by a stout lady doing a balancing
feat, or sat upon by a hefty youth, or punched
in the eye by an apologetic old gentleman,
the discovery may seem worth while.
lit lit * *
“Ibn el Issar” : The news that the Privy
Council has reserved judgment as to whether
a famous idol in the Jain temple at Shirapur
should remain nude or be draped is full of
possibilities. The Jains are a powerful Hindu
sect who worship the life principle to such
an extent that they will not even kill their
fleas. Their temples are world-famous for
the elaborated obscenity of the carvings
which literally cover every inch of them,
while their idols are the limit even for Hin-
dustan. If the l’.C. judgment goes in favor
of the obscurationists, there is a lot of
money coming for the drapery business. The
great temple at Benares alone would use
up a week’s output of all the cotton mills
in Bombay for “moral pocket-handkerchiefs”
and similar oddments.
* * * *
Charles E. Taylor: “Nettle,” who stig-
matises as “absurd” (B. 26/3/’29 ) my
story of the Kelly Gang as published in a
Melbourne newspaper, suggests that the
bushrangers were guilty of indiscriminate
murder. They killed three men—Sergeant
Kennedy and Constables Loncfgan and Scan-
lan —but, however terrible the crime, it was
not cold-blooded butchery; it has been well
established that the troopers could have saved
their lives by surrender. The murder of
Aaron Sherritt, the spy, was solely Joe
Byrne’s affair. Sherritt tried to betray
him, and he exacted a fearful revenge. The
Kellys were horse- and cattle-thieves and
they robbed two banks, but no woman ever
suffered at their hands. While collecting
material for my story in the Kelly country
I found that, after 50 years, sympathy for
the outlaws was as strong as ever; under-
lying it was the belief that they had not
had a fair deal. Your correspondent is right
when he says that the story of Constable
Fitzpatrick and Kate Kelly is not true. It
does not appear in my yarn. Nor did I
make heroes of the Kellys, as the concluding
chapters of the story should convince any-
one.
sic * * *
“Shop”: In the bitter winter of 1916-17
hundreds of bodies lay for months in the
snow in the 200
yards of No Man’s
Land that faced us
at Yarra Bank, on
the Somme. Raid-
ing parties from
each division that
held the sector had
worried the Ger-
man line, and our
patrols were nightly
crawling through
the maze of frozen
sliellholes searching
for outposts and
scouts of the enemy.
After the thaw and
the German retreat
to beyond Bapaume
the stark figures
were a war history
in themselves. Rows
of Tommies clearly
defined where the
Germans had held
off the last ad-
vance of the Somme
pusli early in the
wint e r. Raiding
parties from other
regiments were
distinguishable by
tlieir badges. Little
groups, with occa-
sional German
figures near them,
told of the clash-
ing of night patrols
and of duels fought
in the snow. Aus-
tralian raiders
seemed to have had
the stiffest luck of
all. Clad in sheep-
skin vests, they
wore draped over
and tangled up in
the wire a few
yards in front of
the German line,
mute evidence that
they had been
robbed of success by an artillery barrage
that had failed to smash a path for them
to their objective.
* * * *
“Caractacus”: David Buick, sinking into
the penury in which he died, yet with his
name all over the world on the products
of one of the richest corporations on earth,
must have felt like an ex-squatter I struck
tailing a mob of cattle as a drover in out-
back N.S.W. Drought, muddled manage-
ment, too fast a pace and a long course of
liquor had reduced him from a laird of broad
acres to a casual station-hand. When the
family stations were sold by the mortgagees,
with them went a picturesquely designed
stock and bale brand that for 50 years had
stood out as a guarantee of quality. The
item in the old chap’s misfortunes that hurt
most—more than loss of the land and of the
wife who, secured in comfort by marriage
settlement, bad left him, more' than the
comedown in status and the herding with the
jetsam of the roads—was the sight of the
brand he no longer owned. “I want to kill
every sheep I see it on !” he confided,
* * •? *
“Carrick, A. 8.”: A trifle like the absence
of a dock didn’t worry the skippers of the
small three-masted barques which used to
trade to Tasmania. Whenever the ship’s
bottom became fouled with barnacles and
weed the skipper would run down to the
thickest part of the kelp beds near Southport,
heave the ship to and then let her wallow
and roll in the kelp for a day. The con-
THEIR TASTE IN COMMON.
PRUDENCE ( reading ): “The perfect marriage is made when the husband and wife love
the same thing!”
MAVIS: “Oh THA'T accounts for our happiness! You see, I love Rupert and Rupert
loves himself!”
stant rubbing of the leathery weed would do
the cleaning work effectively and save the
owners a tidy sum.
* * sic *
“Bill Cringle” : More incredible things may
happen at sea than being washed overboard
and washed back again. The clipper Boch
Carron ran into a heavy monsoon in the
Bay of Bengal. The skipper ordered the
t’gallants to be furled; two of the watch
who had gone aloft to lay out and furl as
soon as the sail was clewed up were sent
flying into the belly of the sail by a sudden
jerk of the mast. Before they could extri-
cate themselves the sail was clewed up, the
men who passed the gaskets having no idea
that they were tying their mates up inside
the sail. Next day, when the storm had
blown itself out, two nearly-suffocated men
were discovered —they had been logged as
lost overboard —and released.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The first columbarium in Vic-
toria has been built at the Box Hill cem-
etery at a cost of £2OOO. It is a handsome
structure, the shape of a Greek cross and in
the Byzantine style. The bronze doors open
on an arched interior lighted by semi-circu-
lar windows, and the shelves for the reception
of funeral ashes are below the surface of
the ground, thus fulfilling the dictionary
description of “columbarium.” Relatives of
the deceased may rest assured that their
remains will be left in peace. The urns
will be bolted immovably to the walls.
* * * *
“1.N.Z.”: An even better excuse for not
voting at election time than inability to swim
a river (B. 13/3/’29) came to a re turning-
officer in our Queensland district some years
ago. It was from Stewart’s Creek, and ran :
“Doing time; couldn’t get out.”
* * * *
“llamer”: Norfolk Island can hardly ex-
pect immigrants, and occasionally it loses
a young man who ventures into the world
outside, but apparently it is not worried by
a decreasing birth-rate. In 1921 its 13j
sq. miles of land supported a population of
717; this year the figure is returned at 902.
When the descendants of the Bounty muti-
neers were placed there, in 1850, there were
193. Roughly speaking, the births of recent
years have outnumbered the deaths by three
or four to one. Fruits and preserved fish
provide the islanders with their main income,
and tourist traffic brings a few extra quid
to a place where there is no basic-wage
problem.
ail * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: There was a scene
of revelry in a Sydney suburb when a
newly-mated pair took possession of their
nest amid the congratulations of their
friends. The couple had first met six months
before at the Divorce Court, where on the
same day they had the chains binding them
to uncongenial partners knocked off; they
only waited for the decree nisi to be declared
absolute before being made one. One of
the loudly-cheered events of the nuptial fes-
tivities was the official nailing-up of the
name of the new abode —Reno!
* * * *
“Sixenate” : The human mind’s propensity
for hanging its thoughts upon the pegs of
fixed dates sometimes ends in tragedy. Only
the other day a Sydney man made the anni-
versary of his wife’s death the occasion for
going over the Gap. A similar influence
seems to have been responsible for the exit
from this world of Herbert Neil, who, when
a youth of 19, shot a girl in Adelaide with
his trainee’s rifle in a fit of jealousy. A
plea of insanity saved him. and he was
released from an asylum 18 months ago.
On the fifth anniversary of the original
tragedy (March 17) he took poison. A Jew
friend, with a happier disposition, explained
his system to me: he chooses the dates of
eventful happenings in his life for annual
celebrations. “If it is not happy I say, This
must be remembered on the Christian anm-
versary,’ and let the Hebrew date pass; then
later I say, ‘I should have remembered this
on the Hebrew anniversary,’ ana I let it pass
again.” I reminded him that he always
kept his father’s Zalirzeit (death anniver-
sary). “Didn’t he leave me twenty thousand
pounds?” he demanded. *
*„*„ . , ' .
Nakhoda : A well-established Geelong
tradition that a noted \\ estern Dis-
trict family was in the habit ot burying
jewellery with the deceased in the family
vault moved two young ghouls to break
into the vault and burst open several of
the l(j coffins. Finding nothing even re-
motely comparable to the wonders of Tut’s
tomb, they decided to recompense themselves
for their labor by stripping the fittings from
the caskets, which they supposed to be com-
posed of silver. Even in this they were dis-
appointed. The unmasking of the atrocious
act led to another unsavory discovery—that
members of an East Geelong “mob” had been
in the habit of holding midnight boozing
orgies in the mausoleum.
* * * *!*
“Mei”: Stewards and their little jokes?
A business man who frequently used the
Sydney-Brisbane boats was well known to
the brotherhood by reason of his refusal to
tip. A steward made a bet that he would
get something out of the close-fisted one. One
morning the passenger could find only one
shoe outside his door. The steward pro-
tested that only that shoe had been put
out. “Well, one is not much good to
me, is it?” queried the passenger, turning
over the odd article. “No, sir,” said the
steward expectantly. “So I’ll just throw it
out,” said the owner, tossing it through the
porthole nonchalantly. The other shoe fol-
lowed later from the steward’s porthole.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: A good argument for a
comprehensive policy with regard to aviation
landing-grounds was provided recently in
Victoria by James Whittaker, a Wanga’ratta
farmer. He erected in a paddock much
frequented by aeroplanes plying between
Melbourne and Sydney a number of nasty-
looking poles, which made the use of the
ground a dangerous enterprise. His action
brought a protest from the authorities,
whereat the village Hampden gave his point
of view. His paddock, it seems, has been
a dumping-ground for aircraft for six years
past, sometimes as many as eight ’planes a
week making use of it, to the detriment of
his stock, wires and fences. Numerous
protests to the authorities having failed to
produce anything but an offer of £5 a year'
for the rental of the paddock, Whittaker
took the drastic action complained of. It
is hard to blame him.
$ * # *
“Pipards”: Ferdinand Foch, it seems, died
a comparatively poor man, not even owning
the house in which his last days were spent.
If he had- been English his military record
would have brought him a title and a
Parliamentary grant of probably £lOO,OOO,
but the French apparently view these mat-
ters differently. Whether it is because they
are essentially more thrifty, or because they
reckon the winning of wars is part of a
general’s—or even a generalissimo’s—job
and there is no occasion to pay him extra
for merely doing his duty, is a nice question.
I suppose Marlboi-ough was about the first
English commander who found the winning
of battles was not only the path to glory
but to a dukedom and riches and a fine
estate: anyway, the precedent has been firmly
established in Britain ever since his time.
* * * *
“Morita”: I remember a day at Lagni-
court when a stretcher-bearer, overlook-
ing the neutrality the Geneva Conference
had given him, put in good work keeping up
supplies of ammunition to the troops lined
up against the side of a sunken road. He
ran continual risk of stopping a machine-
gun burst, and was duly recommended for
distinction. What troubled the heads, how-
ever, was to bridge the gulf between a field-
ambulance bearer and a bomb-and-eartridge
carrier, so in the end he was allotted a
foreign decoration, one of those which ren-
dered it unnecessary to stress his ammu-
nition-running performance.
PIZZLED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘Tis hard across the Great Divide to go,
The lot , all unavoidable of men,
With such a lot of things you fain would
know
Still hidden from your ken.
Whether you’re booked for Zion or the Bit,
With whatso’er in either is involved,
You needs must take into the Infinite
Conundrums still unsolved.
No one can tell me, and none ever will,
How and by whom to their Druidic fane
The pillars of Stonehenge were dragged
uphill
Atop of Salisbury Plain.
A man must die and never know the spot
Where Eden stood, in primal product' rich,
Or where the Wagga butcher pointers got
Concerning Roger Tieh.
I sometimes feel a bit aggrieved and hurt
When I reflect, however long my days,
I’ll never see it settled for a cert.
Who wrote Bill Shakspeare’s plays.
How many master minds it’s left perplexed,
That problem centuries old! It seems
unfair
On earth we may not know, and in the next
Existence may not care.
So many veils through which one may not
see
Before th’ inexorable shadows fall!
And this most recent riddle seems to me
The knottiest of all.
Before the Reaper calls ’twould ease my
mind—
Though life is but a span and man a
midge—
If some authoritative Court could find
Who was the chap that really designed
This Sydney Harbor Bridge!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Boomerang”: As the train got well under
way from Coorparoo (on the Brisbane-
Cleveland line) a porter yelled. “Express to
Vvynnum” (about eight miles distant), and
old chap who was booked for an inter-
mediate station began to curse the railway
service, from the Commissioner downwards,
with all the earnestness of which he was
capable. He had a fine flow of language, and
he kept his comminution service up for most
of the journey, in spite of friendly fellow-
passengers assuring him he would get a
slow train back from Wynnum very soon
after arrival there. Sure enough, when we
reached Wynnum a train for the return
journey was just starting; the old fellow
rushed across the platform and managed to
scramble in as it was moving. Simultane-
ously a porter yelled, “Express to Coor-
paroo.” I am still wondering to what
heights of profanity the ancient rose on the
return journey.
* "si! * *
. “Old 68”: We were in St. Omer celebrat-
ing after a spell in the line, when Tich took
a fancy to a Tommy despatch-rider’s motor-
cycle and commandeered it. For half an
hour he scared the townspeople stiff by
his speed antics around the square. When
that began to pall he paused to light a
cigarette and spotted the canal that runs
through the town. “Betcher I can ride
through that,” he said. Bets were duly laid,
and we congregated on the bridge to ‘watch
the performance. Tich came tearing along
the street, bounced over the edge and dis-
appeared under the water; in a few seconds,
to the accompaniment of cheers, he re-
appeared and came to a stop half-way up
the far side, half-drowned but grinning
hugely. “I collect,” he cried gleefully as
we helped him up. “Your mistake. / do,”
said another voice. It was the A.P.M., avlio
had arrived on the scene with the despatch-
rider in tow.
* * * *
“Clifford Snook”; A pathetic tale was re-
cently related in Perth Children’s Court by
a lady with two small children. Four year’s
ago, so the narrative went, one of four child-
ren died, and the family being in. emaciated
circumstances the husband sold the wife
and mother to Henry George (possibly the
single-tax man) for enough to pay the
undertaker. After overworking and ill-using
her for two years, George committed suicide,
leaving her another infant; and after another
two years the lady appeared in court with
two infants, and got George’s half of the
pair put “on the State.” She did this be-
cause all efforts to trace her own husband
had failed. It seems strange that in an appa-
rently civilised country, pervaded by chari-
ties and Government institutions, a woman
should allow herself to be sold into bondage
FIT SUBJECTS FOR SYMPATHY.
“I always feel sorry for poor people like those in the car.”
“Poor people! Why, they’ve got everything that money can buy.”
“Yes, and that’s all they have got.”
for the price of a small funeral. It might
be melodramatic, but it looks unnecessary,
It seems more unnecessary that she should
stay in slavery with the single-tax man f ? r two
years and not put up a sufficient shriek to
attract aid. Then the narrative leaves two of the
three original surviving children unexplained,
also the circumstances under which the third
infant went into servitude with its mother,
and when or how she became aware that her
real husband had vanished. It is all a mixed
myStel 7’ * *
“Verri”: They have it on record that in
one Maoriland company a medal was be-
stowed on the cook. A handful of M.M.’s,
not a highly-esteemed decoration, had come
along with orders that they were to be dis-
tributed as deserved, which meant that they
were handed out at the discretion of an
officer. There were a couple of medals over,
and an informal ballot was held to decide
who should have them. Just in a friendly
way the cook’s name was included. The
food-poisoner showed no gratification when
his number won. Instead he hurled the
bauble the. length of the cookhouse, and re-
marked . bitterly that he mightn’t be a
fighter like some others, but he would take
on any two of the mob when dinner was over.
Later, better thoughts prevailed, and he re-
trieved . the item from where it had fallen,
remarking that, provided she didn’t get to
hear the facts of the matter, the missus
might like to have it.
* * * *
“X.D.”: A Melbourne insurance company
recently proceeded against a youth for
obtaining money by false pretences. It was
alleged that he claimed the insurance on a
motor-bike which he had deliberately thrown
into a river. His counsel pointed out that the
prosecution had omitted to prove the exist-
ence of the insurance co. Although the
firm is almost as well known as the A.M.P.
and one of its employees was in court,
’Sonah remarked that the plea, though with-
out merit, had to be accepted, and ruled that
there was no case to submit to the jury.
* * * *
“Erua”: Not all school inspectors appre-
ciate devised for their benefit
(B. 27/3/’2!)). In an up-country Maoriland
district it was the custom for the children
to take time off the day prior to the exami-
nation and annex immense quantities of
ferns and foliage from the near-by bush, the
huge fronds of a nikau palm being secured
for window adornment. It was a short-
sighted inspector who called on the chairman
of the school committee, after the exam., and
complained of the disgraceful condition of
the Venetian blinds at the school, adding that
he should report it to the Education Board.
It took some reams of paper to persuade the
authorities that what the official had taken
for broken slats was merely palm leaves
waving in the breeze.
* * * *
“P.P.”: Illustrious names were scattered
among the flock of a Newtown (Sydney)
man, ono Baker. The boys were christened
Gladstone, Po.sebery, Wolseley, Darwin and
Edison; the girls became Nightingale, Ouida
and Bronte. Only one of the family, Rose-
bery, was proud of his title; he had it
printed in big letters on the front of his
ham and beef shop.
* * * *
“X.D.”: An amazing escape from sudden
death was lately reported to the police
in Melbourne. A man burst into the Colling-
wood station with a revolver firmly attached
to the flesh of one hand by the hammer.
According to his story, he got mixed up in
a fight with a drunken mob and one of the
men “drew,” shoved the muzzle of the weapon
into his abdomen'and pulled the trigger. He
clutched at the revolver, and, by sheer luck,
the hammer nipped his flesh instead of
reaching the cylinder.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The magpie’s penchant for
fencing-wire as a nest-lining is beginning to
worry other people than telegraph officials.
Lately several “shorts,” causing a fine dis-
play of electrical pyrotechnics and a gen-
eral traffic holdup, have occurred in and
around Melbourne on the railway overhead
gear and have been traced to the same
offender. Clapp had a squad of men de-
tailed to blow maggie off his perch with shot-
guns, but their marksmanship or the timidity
of suburbanites led to frantic protests.
Lately the department obtained municipal
permission to renew the sharpshooting,
whereupon humanitarians pointed out that
the magpie was protected. Clapp? next
move was an application to the fisheries and
game people for a special permit to shoot
magpies, which resulted in various counter-
suggestions, one of which was that the over
head gear should be insulated from mag-ie
by means of a vast net One dear old ladv
under the impression that the birds snipped
off lengths of the electric cable, asked why
the Commissioners could not make their
wires of strong enough material to resist
* * * *
“E.G.”; The worst jolt of Maoriland’s
latest ’quake (March 9 and 10) was sus-
tained by Arthur’s Pass,’under the mid-rib
of the Southern Alps, which commands the
Canterbury entrance to the fifth largest
tunnel in the world. The pass takes” its
name from Arthur Dobson, who found, in
pioneering days, this easily negotiable high-
way between Canterbury and Westland.
Half a mile of shingly river-bed, set between
high bush-decked hills, at an altitude of
2500 ft., is the setting for the little township,
which may some day become the Davos of
Maoriland, From a settlement populated
mostly by pick-and-shovel men, the township
has since'the completion of the tunnel already
become something of a fashionable holiday
resort, and it was full of visitors, many of
whom were at a dance, 'when the trouble
ALWAYS A CHANCE.
FOND MOTHER: “Oh, Professor, do you think little Willie will ever move multitudes
with his voice?”
SINGING PROFESSOR: “Maybe, Madam., maybe—if you make him a policeman.”
started. There were some narrow escapes
from injury but no actual casualties, though,
after an hour’s rocking, not a chimney or
a steady nerve was left. A Sunday relief-
train was rushed up from the plains and
carried off the panic-stricken visitors and
most of the residents. The railway navvies,
hardier spirits, merely spat on their hands
and fell to reconstruction work.
# * * *
“Strict Yeg.”: Melbourne has always been
noted for the activities of its killjoys. Their
latest target is the growing practice of shop-
keepers of placing loud-speakers at their
doorways and providing passers-by with a
little inexpensive entertainment. Personally,
I am no devotee of wireless, but the broad-
cast noises are at least no more objection-
able than the boom of the movie spruikers
or even the uproar of the traffic. Mel-
bourne’s streets, with their lack of trees,
gardens or shady retreats where one can
take a mental breather, are the world’s dull-
est. In the very heart of London I have
heard a bird sing, but never in the heart of
Melbourne. A broadcast song is at least a
passable substitute.
* ❖ Sfc *
“Hayband”: Naturally the greyhound’s
instinct is to chase any small animal that
streaks away, a characteristic he shares with
most hunting dogs, but if the breed were
half as desperate as “Fancier” alleges
(B. 13/3/’29) there would be no other dogs
left by now, unless they’d learnt to climb
trees. As a matter of fact, the greyhound
is not a fighting animal, like some species
that have been'bred for centuries for no
other purpose. His slender and vulnerable
forelegs and his thin hide forbid it. Generally,
an average cattle-dog is more than a match
for him. I have owned dogs of all makes
and found the greyhounds as good-tempered
and manageable as any.
H= * * *
“Hamer”: The Sydney “Clean City” cam-
paign is about to include the pigeons in its
sweep; they have become an outsize in
nuisances, though many people who like the
pert friendliness of the birds will be sorry for
their passing. Firemen’s hoses have already
waged some war on the feathered settlers
and their nests; but even authority regards
this method as a little barbarous. The new
snare is wheat soaked in alcohol; it is esti-
mated that the sozzled birds will be easily
captured, either to add to the city’s food
supply or to be removed to more countrified
localities. Operations are being started at
the Town Hall.
* * * *
“Shell” : Recently at a branch of the Vie.
Savings Bank an elderly lady presented two
passbooks which had been mislaid and not
operated on since 1884. One book showed a
balance of 19s. Bd., the other a balance of
£l. Interest not being allowed on sums under
£l, one balance remained at the original
amount; the other had increased to £4 13s.
Bd. That extra fourpence was worth over
£3 10s. to the depositor.
* * * *
“Spare Corp.”: Certain courtesies about
graves were strictly observed between our
troops and the Germans; directly a bit of
ground was won from the enemy fresh mark-
ing-posts with a British registration number
went down in the German graves to make
doubly sure of after-the-war identification.
Fritz reciprocated when he had the chance.
Still, I doubt whether the Germans had
much success in identifying the remains of
the men they had buried in the cemetery
at Pheasant Wood, near Damstrasse, -which
had once been well behind their front line,
but was later well behind ours. The place
was shelled continually; refuging on the other
side of a thick bank, we were never much
worried, but from time to time there would
be a rain of bones in the mud that showered
over us. A very scrappy lot of remains must
have been gathered from this spot when the
war was over—if any were gathered at all.
* * * *
“Lex”: The Lord Chief Justice of England
(Lord Hewart) has got what the press
has long been prophesying would come to
him. In giving judgment in the appeal of
W. C. llobb4 of “Mr. A” notoriety the Lord
Justice of Appeal said :
He had come to the regrettable conclusion
that a new trial should be ordered. Hobbs was
entitled to a tail- hearing, according to the rules of
law. “I regret to say,” he added, “that I do not
think he got such a trial.”
Lord Justice Greer and Lord Justice Sankey con-
curred. They were of opinion that the Lord Chief
Justice appeared to have been influenced by the
unfavorable opinion he had formed of the plaintiff.
These are the strongest words that an Appeal
Court has ever used about a Lord Chief
Justice. Lord Ilewart almost alwaysi ranges
himself on one side or the other in important
cases. Justice Avory has the same failing.
Australia has had no Judge of this type
. since Windeyer, of N. S. Wales. Needless
to say all these Judges have usually been
right in the estimates they have formed, but
that is beside the point. Lord Justice San-
key stated the principle on which the whole
structure of British law rests:—
'lt is not only necessary for justice to be done,
but also that it shall appear to have been done.
.-■< * * *
“Clarence Cafeteria”: As a sidelight on
the plague menace: I had occasion to go into
one of the pocket-handkerchief back yards
which adjoin the houses on Smith-street,
Footscray. The tenant, an old lady, had
been trying to help the family budget by
rearing a few vegetables, but it was no use.
The seedlings no sooner put in an appear-
ance than they were devoured by rats.
* * * *
“Frigid”: Admitting that inflammation of
the inner ear is caused by a microbe (B.
20/3/’2O), the trouble could originate in
war service. During the 1916-17 winter on
the Western Front, I know of many cases
where recurring colds caused inflammatory
blocking of the Eustachian tubes; later on
this blocking became permanent and extended
into the tympanum, so that the ossicles be-
came bound down. That winter was the
worst for 50 years, and it tested tile Diggers
severely. According to Base Records, there
were about 5000 ear and throat cases, and
quite a number of these have still to visit
the Repat. hospitals periodically for treat-
ment.
* * * *
“Bloggs” on London’s towns:—
A S. M. Herald correspondent, anxious to empha-
sise that London’s position as a distributing centre
is on the wane, wrote: —
Outside the greater London area there are no towns
within 60 miles of the capital, except Croydon, Totten-
ham and Brighton (the South Coast pleasure resort),
which have a population of 100,000.
This is fascinating proof of the claim that figures
can be made to prove anything. Certainly Croydon
and Tottenham are outside the five-mile radius, and
are nominally towns with populations of their own.
But not one South Londoner in a thousand could tell
you offhand where Norwood ends and Croydon begins,
or where Norwood and Dulwich merge into Brixton
and Camberwell. Tottenham is only a couple of
miles outside the radius on the north, and I have
yet to meet a Cockney capable of indicating its
boundaries. Like all these other “towns,” it is
indistinguishable from the slums around it. On this
side of London the traveller has to cover nearly 12
miles before the monotonous sea of homes, all exactly
the same, breaks in scattered villas on the green
and open country of Chingford. The truth is, London
is busily performing the same gastronomical feat
as Sydney, Melbourne, etc.; it is eating up the
innumerable towns outside it at a tremendous pace.
Nominally, for example, there are half a dozen
towns between Hyde Park Corner and almost any
point of the compass 12 or 14 miles away; in prac-
tice they form a single octopus which never stops
pushing its red-brick tentacles into the countryside.
Brighton, 52 miles away, used to be whimsically
called “a suburb of London,” but that is what it is
in reality nowadays.
PINK AUTUMN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Pmk is my autumn garden:
The pink of hollyhocks,
Roses, zinnias, asters;
The soft, faint hue of phlox.
Canna may flaunt its scarlet,
Crotons glow red as wine;
Pink are the pale hibiscus
And dahlia velvets fine.
The last of the frangipanni
Fades with the clouded days;
Still in a glowing corner
Pink oleanders blaze.
QUEENSLAND.
A. GORE-JONES.


d
“The
Umbro”
Fur Felt
Hat.
Just the hat for the man who lives in the
great outdoors. It’s shfidy and serviceable.
Has 3iin. unbound, curl brim. Crown 6iin.
high, has leather plaited band.
Fawn shade, medium weight—and is
“Sovereign” quality.
Price 39/6
Send your size or head measurement to
rothwells outfitting
coward street Brisbane
Follow the
Chart
TEXACO keeps your engine clean.
BUY FROM THE TEXACO VISIBLE OIL
SERVER BOTTLE, AND ENSURE:
Freedom from carbon
Clean Valves and Spark Plugs
Protection against heat and wear
Economy in consumption
High compression and more
power
TEXACO
CLEAN-CLEAR-GOLDEN
MOTOR OIL
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed (or the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Ueherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Stewart Dawson, who has sold his pro-
perty in Pitt-street, Sydney, for £770,000,
has created by sheer genius as salesman
and organiser the biggest retail jewellery
business in the world. He started as a boy
on a Scottish farm, and to-day, whether it
is in London, Sydney, Melbourne or Perth,
the most important jewellery and silver-
ware establishment in sight is likely
to belong to Stewart Dawson. His Potts
Point flat is in a house that was built by
Chief Justice Martin 40 years ago, and he
still goes to work.
Westralian Senator Colebatch, when
Agent-General, had a long talk with Musso-
lini in Rome. The talk was mostly about
the draining of Lake Nemi to recover tin l
Emperor Caligula’s galleys, which have been
at the bottom of the lake for nearly 19 cen-
turies ; the Duce introduced the subject, and
returned to it. again and again. Now the
cable reports that the work —estimated to
cost £lOO,OO0 —has progressed sufficiently far
to hang the Italian flag on the stern of the
largest galley, which was 236 ft. long. Mus-
solini calculates that the outlay will be re-
turned a hundredfold by trippers of all
nations; and, of course, he lias other objects.
Hugh Smith, who succeeds Reseigh as pre-
R. B. BURNSIDE,
Westralian Judge
and yachting
enthusiast.
sident of the Vic.
Cocky party, is an
old boy of Geelong
College. Forty
years ago, when a
youth of 19, he
went on the land
a t Bannockburn;
he retired from
farming nine years
ago. He has served
on the central exe-
cutive of the C.P.
for several years,
and was vice-presi-
dent for two years.
Isaac Job Weaver,
formerly M.L.A.
for Korong, the
senior vice-presi-
dent, will probably
get the presidency
next year; and if
there is a dissolu-
tion before next
March (which
seems likely) he
may have another
shot for the Assem-
bly.
W. S. Kelly, one of the new men on the
Tariff Board, is a noted breeder of sheep and
cattle in South Aus. Educated at Prince
Alfred’s, he was at the war with the 48th'
Battalion _ under Raymond Leane, now S.
Aus. Police Commissioner, and after the
Armistice w r as used as an instructor in wool
and stock matters. Since then he has been
chairman of the State Advisory Board of
Agriculture. He is 47.
E. A. Douglas, elevated to the Queensland
Supreme Court Bench in the place of the
late Charles Stumm, is the youngest son of
the late John Douglas, a picturesque and
forceful personality who was prominent in
the early days of Queensland politics (he
was Premier for two years, 1877-79) and
was later for many years Resident at Thurs-
day Island. The new Judge occupies a
unique position in that his younger brother,
R. J. Douglas, is also a member of the
Queensland Bench.
Major Phillips, the last A.I.F. man to be
demobilised, gets an English job as prison
governor. There were 200 applicants. Phil-
lips was in charge of Australian army pri-
soners at Lewes towards the end of the war.
When his caged birds were sent home he
became controller of the Australian section
of the War Graves Commission, and as such
he remained in France until the end of last
year. The English position is worth £lOOO
p.a. plus quarters.
George Knibbs, best known as the Com-
monwealth’s first Statistician, and least
appreciated as the mathematician who pro-
duced the most complicated formula for
assessing taxation ever devised, died at the
week-end, aged 71. Born in Sydney, he
joined “the Lands” as a youngster, got into
the trigonometrical survey, busied himself
wifli education, stored up some information
about almost everything under the sun, and,
after lecturing in
engineering an d
physics at the Uni.,
vv a s appointed
director of techni-
cal education in
N. g. Wales. It
was he and Peter
Board who wan-
dered the earth to
find out what (if
anything) was
wrong with educa-
t ion in N. S.
Wales; and soon
after liis return he
got his big Com-
monwealth appoint-
ment. The range
of his knowledge
was prodigious,
but lie was no
Coghlan in making
the dry bones of
statistics almost
beautiful. Australia
has had only one
Coghlan ana the
world not many.
GEORGE H.
KNIBBS.
H. H. Sterling, the new general manager
of Maoriland’s railways, hasn’t forgotten
that he started on the bottom rung of the
ladder —he entered the service as a cadet
28 years ago—and that he was taught a lot
by men he passed on his way up. Sterling
believes, when knotty points arise, in calling
his subordinates into conference. The other
day he assembled several shunters, and
learned from them how to save money and
avoid accidents; a little later stationmasters
were asked to advise on traffic requirements,
also w r ith good results. The service appre-
ciates the new spirit, and the mana of
Sterling grows greater.
An echo of “Thunderbolt” Ward’s last
fight has been stirred by the death in Cre-
morne (Sydney), at 81, of ex-Superintendent
Alexander B. Walker. Walker was a trooper
in the Armidale (N.S.W.) district when
“Thunderbolt” was active. The bushranger
popped out of a Ur alia hotel when Walker
rode up one day. The trooper had the better
horse, and, riding hard, brought his man
to bay at a waterhole. There they waged
an extensive shooting match until one of
the Law’s bullets got home, inflicting a
mortal wound. Lister Lister has painted a
big canvas of the incident.
The Rev. F. B. Meyer, who has gone to
his reward at the age of 82, was until re-
cently, when his energies failed somewhat,
London’s most militant Puritan. He opposed
every form of unrighteousness, but attracted
most attention by his attacks on boxing,
made when the National Sporting Club was
in its heyday under Eugene Corri. He
grieved to the last that the Prince was a
boxing enthusiast. Christ Church, where
Mr. Meyer officiated latterly, is almost
opposite Southwark baths, on the Prince’s
estate. The Baptist ministry has had no
more effective preacher than he was in his
prime.
France accorded General Maurice Sarrail
belated recognition on his death last week,
in his 73rd year. He was buried at Les
.Invalides, a Paris avenue is to be called
after him, and the Minister for War “praised
his stand before Verdun in 1914 in a funeral
oration.” It was this desperate stand —made
after Joffre had ordered the evacuation of
the fortress —which caused Sarrail’s ruin
early in the war. He had succeeded General
Ruffey in command of the 3rd Army, and
immediately proposed sending troops by sea
to Dunkirk to strike the open flank of the
Germans. It is said that Joffre never
forgave him for devising a scheme which
military experts agree would probably have
been a success if he had been allowed to
attempt it.
W. G. Bennett, a recent addition to the
staff of the S.A. Agricultural College at
Roseworthy, has had a crowded life for a
young man of 30. He won all sorts of
honors at Wesley College and Melbourne
University; at the Uni.’s vet school he was
demonstrator and lecturer. He got into
khaki as soon as he w r as old enough, prac-
tised at Camperdown (Vic.) on his return
from the wars, and latterly has had several
years as Government vet. officer in Fiji.
J. P. Jones, M.L.C., who was Minister for
Public Works in the Prendcrgast and Hogan
Labor Governments (Vic.), in addition to
being a prosperous clothier in Melbourne
is now fast qualifying for the squattocracy.
For a few years he has held a pretty large
holding outside Benalla, and now he has
acquired another spacious area at Yarck, on
the Mansfield line. He has found sheep
profitable, and his son, who manages for him,
likes the life after a long term at Scotch
College and a few years at the Uni.
Colonel A. J. Bennett, headmaster of
Waverley (N.S.W.) State school, who has
been appointed Administrator of Norfolk
Island, is a veteran of the Soudan, South
African and World wars, though he counts
only 04 years. His appointment carries a
salary of £BOO p.a. with quarters. His
troops of friends wish him better luck than
Leane had and a longer term than Sellheim
or Herbert enjoyed.
lan McClelland, only son of the late Louis
McClelland, sometime second Vic. Railway
Commissioner, has entered Melbourne Uni.
as an engineering student. He has a hanker-
ing for the railway service, and some day
may climb up to a job like his dad’s on the
professional side.
Lansdowne House, which stands in a
large garden at the southern end of Berkeley
Square, and was sold last week for £750,000.
was the scene of one of the war’s great
moral casualties. The Marquis of Lans-
downe, after being a die-hard warmonger
as a Minister (without portfolio), suddenly
lost his nerve when things looked blackest
and made what was virtually an appeal for
peace with Germany at any price. It gave
the submarine-jarred nerves of the nation a
serious shock, more especially as Lord Lans-
downe, being half a Frenchman, was popu-
larly believed to have all kinds of inside
.information. The shaky state of his family’s
finances had upset the old nobleman. Lat-
terly, the immense building has housed an
entirely different tenant —Gordon Selfridge,
the dauntless adventurer who came to London
from Marshall, Field and Co., in Chicago,
and in face of violent opposition built up
the biggest general store in the West End.
If the A r ic. Government invites the sur-
vivors of the 1889 Parliament to the State
dinner in honor of Speacock’s completion of
40 years’ continuous service in the Assembly,
only nine will have to be asked. The nine
are S. W. Cooke and Agar Wynne, ex-
M’s.L.C.; R. W. Best (ex-Senator), J. N.
Dunn, Jack Gardiner, Tom Hunt, Joe Kir-
ton, W. Maloney (the M.H.R.) and H. R.
Williams, ex-M’s.L.A. Forty years ago the
Assembly comprised 95 and the Council 48
members, so death has levied a great toll.
Williams, who was sworn in as Minister for
Mines under Graham Berry on August 3,
1880, is the senior Executive Councillor on
the roll. Tom Hunt, who is heading for the
nineties, still runs his Free Press at Kil-
more. Jack Gardiner is a Melbourne City
Council alderman. Kirton lives in the east-
ern suburbs, and Dunn at Ballarat. The
knightly Bob Best, carrying his 73 years
lightly, is still chasing Costs.
The election of Councillor J. Douglas to
the vacancy on the Collingwood (Vic.)
Council makes that body unique in Victorian
municipal annals. It is the first all-Labor
council in the State.
Cyrus McCormick, junior, who left Bris-
bane for Singapore last week after a flying
business tour of the Commonwealth, to
which, he says, he is going to return, bears
a name of interest to Australians, since he
is the grandson of the inventor of the reap-
ing-machine. His father, who developed the
original business into the largest of its kind
in existence, with markets in every quarter
of the world, was a close friend of the late
Woodrow Wilson—by all accounts a difficult
man to get on with.
A fine advertisement for North Australia
is Charles Joseph Scrutton, who a few
months ago, in spite of his 91 years, left
the comparative comfort of his Borroloola
homestead for six months’ dingo-hunting in
wild country. Scrutton is the only survivor
of the Jardine expedition, famous in N.Q.
history, and for the 65 years that have
elapsed since the expedition reached Cape
York Peninsula he has lived in the North.
The old chap smokes like a volcano, and has
never worn glasses, though he is an omni-
vorous reader.
The more weather-worn it gets the more
the bronze statue of Tommy Bent at Brigh-
ton (Vic.) resembles the original. It will
soon be 20 years since the ex-Speaker, ex-
Premier and ex-municipal magnate was
tucked in at Brighton Cemetery, but the
statue keeps his memory green. Judge Moule,
who was Brighton’s Assembly member for
six years while the constituency was punish-
ing Bent bv giving him a rest, is still going
strong at 70. Bent was a member ot the
Government that placed Moule on the
County Court Beqch, and he was also in the
Ministry which promoted Higinbotham, an-
other former political rival, to C.J. W ith all
his faults. Bent had no use for personal ani-
mosities.
The best-tailored man of the \ ic. Par-
liamentary Labor party, Beckett, M.L.C.p
formerly Minister for Forests and Health, is
off soon for a trip to Honolulu. Whether
he will be accorded the same honor as the
late George Elmslie, a former Premier, who
was asked to address the Parliament there,
remains to be seen. The people of Hawaii
will, at any rate, find him courteous and
polite and a good judge of a motor-car.
Beckett has built himself a pretty villa at
St. Ivilda, contiguous to the foreshore at
Luna Park.
The recent shindy at Melbourne ’Varsity
had a family resemblance to a willy-willy.
Professor Berry, annoyed at the Council
turning down his resolutions with regard to
the medicine school, sent in his resignation
as Dean of the Faculty to Chancellor John
MacFarland. The Chancellor discovered, on
looking up the rules, that the only person
who could accept the resignation of a medical
professor was the Dean himself; so lie
readdressed the letter to Prof. Berry. Having
cooled down a trifle, Berry decided, not to
accept his own resignation and the incident
closed, llis term closes in a few months,
anyhow.
The familiar narrative commences after
this familiar fashion in the daily paper:
Only by a lucky chance did the members of a
branch of the Stump family, of Hobart, discover that
they are among the probable heirs to a fortune
which has been accumulating for a century, and
which now amounts to over £1,000,000.
Then follows an elaborate story of an Eng-
lishman who left to his German second wife
the use and benefit of a fortune for her life-
time only, after which it was to go to his
brother in Tasmania. Notwithstanding this
arrangement, the lady contrived, for reasons
not explained, to tie the money up for 100
years, and it has apparently just come
untied. This fortune is quite distinct from
the Hobbs Millions, and the Jennings Mil-
lions (60 of them), and the Angell Millions,
and the Blake Millions, and the Drake Mil-
lions (being the pile left, by Sir Francis
Drake with accumulated interest), or the
Maoriland lady aged 103 with a legitimate
claim to the heart of Sydney, or even the
United States Senator Clarke, whose un-
claimed fortune of more money than any-
body ever heard of before might have come
to people here if his five children and his
second wife hadn’t got in first.
Norman Falkiner, one of Vic.’s latest
Uppish House recruits, whose health has
CAPT. VERNEY,
aide-de-camp to
the Governor of
South Australia.
been bad, is off for
a trip to Europe.
So Melbourne
South will be with-
out a member ie
the Landlords*
Chambah for a few
months; its other
representative,
Frank Clarke, is
also on bis way to
London. Clarke
handed over the
presidential work
of the House dur-
ing his absence to
Edgar. Edgar has
started on a visit
to South Africa,
but expects to be
back in time to be
Deputy c President
at the opening of
the session about
July 3 : meanwhile
Chief Sec. Argyle
will attend to any
presidential duties
that have to be
attended to.
“Hamer” : Francis Sheriff Isaacs, S.M. (B.
6/3/’29), didn’t long survive his brother-in-
law, Admiral Fremantle. In his day—a day
coinciding wnth that of Captain Fisher, of
the Sydney Water Police Court —Isaacs had
a reputation as a wit, and used to attract
“houses” to his morning sessions. “You
are,” he said to a woman up on the “vag.,”
“an —er —unfortunate woman?” “Your Wor-
ship,” the defendant protested, “I haven’t
had a chance to even speak to a man for
three munce.” “Oh, I see !” said Isaacs—
“a very unfortunate woman!”
A BALLAD OF SHORN LOCKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where is the hair of yesterday,
The tresses that framed Helen’s brow 7
When on old Troy’s doom-laden shore
Bhe saw the body Ajax bore,
And, for the Grecian princes’ vow 7,
The sword of Menelaus play?
Where is that golden glory which
Crowned your fair head, Penelope,
That gleam which made a hundred pray,
And saw you, in sweet trickery,
At nights unravel, stitch by stitch,
Your careful labors of the day?
It’s dust. Or else it’s used to stuff
The bed on which an emperor frets,
Or in thin ropes at Kwan-Hai-Suff
Holds the queer junks that ride the stream,
Or in the cause of love’s young dream
Smooths the unruly wisps w r ith nets.
All beauty passes, giving place;
Beauty to beauty is a knell.
Let’s welcome, then, the cheeky face
The shingle’s given to Isabel.
MAORir.ANI).
QUENTIN POPE.


The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company, Limited.
Founded 1886.
Assets at 31 st December, 192 7,
£18,567,527,
of which 85% was renresented by
Public Securities.
The M.L.C. Charter is constituted to
admit of the issue of policies to meet
the necessities of every class, every age,
every purse. Its range of contracts is
unsurpassed for diversity and liberality,
and the fulfilment of every contract is
guaranteed by the Company’s capital
and its ever-increasing assurance Funds.
CASH SURPLUS in the Ordinary
Branch for the year 1927, £609,330.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
Head Office: Citizens’ Building, Castlereagh
Street and Martin Place, Sydney.
Who Will Manage Your Estate?
At all times when an individual is appointed as Executor or Trustee
the uncertainty of human life is present. Who is better qualified to
administer your Estate than the
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED.
It cannot die, travel or disappear; has had over 40 years’ experience
in the management of all classes of Estates, and offers as security the
whole of its capital and assets—over £1,000,000.
Our Explanatory Booklet will be
sent to you Post Free on Request.
THOS. BUCKLAND
JAMES MOIR
DIRECTORS:
F. N. YARWOOD
(Chairman)
0. E. FRIEND
Lt.-Col. T. F. RUTLEDGE
J. W. Babxes, Manager. E. V. T. Whittle, Asst. Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter S Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Commonwealth General Assurance.
Excess Out-
Revenue. Claims. Expenses, goings. Deficit.
Dee., £ £ £ £ £
1921.. 19,481 4,340 20,186* 6,045 13,988
Premiums on new shares, £449 (net) 13,539
1922.. 45,861 9,316 47,701 11,156 24,695
Premiums on new snares, £231 (net) 24,464
Share-selling costs .. 1,360 25.824
Paid f„r Co-op. and L.C.A.
. Industrial departments .. 16,585 42,409
1923.. 81,519 23,567 70,846 12,894 55,303
From sale of Fire business, £25,378 31,299
1924.. 97,609 33,161 65,822 1,374 56,677
From Fire Dept. ..£3BB 30,911
To Reduction
of Deficit.
1925.. 77,258 18,648 47,701 10,909 20,002
Added to establishment, £6Bl .. 20,683
1926.. 75,130 12,760 44,129 18,241 2,442
Net unexplained reduction in Reserves, £461 2,903
Funds.
1927.. 80,583 17,504 44,056 19,023 16,120
Added to establishment, £8394 .. 7,726
1928.. 91,531 17,233 66,016 18,283 26,009
This was a Sydney float, promoted by
Thomas Foster in 1920. For a while the co.
mixed fire and marine underwriting with life
business, but in 1924 the two former depart-
ments, which in a little over two years
mopped up in claims and exes. £24,445 more
than they had gathered in premiums, were
sold to tin 1 Commonwealth Traders’ Insur-
ance for £25,378 in fully-paid shares. Since
then the risks have been confined to ordinary
and industrial life policies, and in each of
the last four years income has exceeded
outgo. Last year an extra £9993 of pre-
miums were gathered, and interest, etc.
(£5062), was £955 heavier; thus the spring,
in the year’s takings was £10,948 as against
an increase of £5453 in the previous term.
Claims were lighter; they were only 18.8 p.c.
of the income compared with 21.7 in the
previous year, but exes, gobbled up 61.2 p.c.
as against 55.2 p.c. and 58.7 p.c. in 1927
and 1926 respectively. Hence the excess of
income over outgo was £740 lighter than in
1927, and for a co. which is struggling to
keep its feet that is discouraging.
Last year an effort was made to arrest the
serious drift and to revive the enfeebled
Ordinary branch, as this next comparison
shows: —
Life Business Written.
Average Average
Ordinary Annual per Premium
Policies. Assuring. Premiums. Policy. . p.c.
1923.. 1128 £324,463 £14,233 £287 £4 7 9
1924.. 780 184,202 7,500 236 4 1 5
1925.. 730 196,527 7,749 269 3 18 11
1926.. 681 203,397 7,369 298 3 12 5
1927. . 490 145,438 5,419 296 3 14 6
1928.. 913 235,270 9,671 257 4 2 2
The volume of business put on the books
was nearly double that of the previous year,
but the average amount per policy fell away
£39, while the average premium per £lOO
assured increased 7s. Bd., reaching £4 2s. 2d.
The suggestion there is that more short-term
endowments were written last year.
Here is a survey of revenue account figures
as they relate to each department:—
Ordinary and Industrial Life.
Nominal
Income. Claims. Expenses. Surplus.
iQOA J Ord. £19,771 £2,772 £13,899 £3,099
l Ind. 42,906 6,400 31,003 5,503
109 K i ° r d- 21,150 1,558 12,466 7,126
1 l Ind. • 46,501 10,348 27,173 8,980
1926 ) Ord. 22,251 3,679 ( ~ ....
1926 (Ind. 52,879 9,081 ) 44 > 129 18 - 241
1Q97 5 Ord. 21,540 4,444 ( ~ nno
192 ' l Ind. 69,043 13,060 ) 44,056 19,023
jqno } Ord. 25,993 4,235 1 ra , IDOCO
1928 1 Ind. 65,538 12,998 j 66,015 18,283
In the Ordinary branch one of the big diffi-
culties has been to hold the small amount
of business won. In 1927 first premiums plus
renewals totalled £21,540; last year’s re-
newals alone were £5348 short of that figure.
The shrinkage represents the loss to the co.
not only in claims, but also in lapses, which
are far heavier than they should be. Mostly
they represent a definite loss to the co. as
well as to the assured. The year’s exes, took
59 p.c. of the net premium income as against
41.6, 53.3 and 53.6 p.c. in the three preced-
ing terms. Assuming that it costs 10 times
as much to put new business on the books
as it does to handle renewals, and splitting
up administrative charges (£15,165 last year)
in proportion to premium income, and accept-
ing the management’s allocation of the bal-
ance of the exes., then the £8448 of first
premiums gathered last year cost 144 p.c.
compared with 141, 141 and 138 p.c. in the
three years before that. Until a much larger
volume of more permanent business can be
written at a considerably reduced cost,
prospects in this department are far from
promising.
In order to quickly develop the industrial
side of. the business, to which the manage-
ment gives most of its attention, the indus-
trial policies of the L.C.A., Co-op. and
Australian Workers’ Co-op. were bought in
1923. One immediate result was the addi-
tion of £16.585 to establishment account.
Last year 10,011 policies assuring £395,065
were put on the books, and that was £S6,9SO
more than was written under 2846 fewer
policies in 1927. Claims were a trifle lighter,
notwithstanding that some of the policies
bought five years ago were about due to
mature. But exes, took 68.5 p.c. of the net
premium income, the ratio was 63.8, 64.6
and 59.2 p.c. in each of the three preceding
years. Il'ence last year’s underwriting sur-
plus in this branch (£6002) was £794 poorer
than in 1927. The leap in the cost rate is
discouraging, and the management will pro-
bably find it difficult to make any worth-
while cut.
During the year the holding in the Com-
monwealth Traders’ Co. was sold, apparently
at a discount. The book value of shares in
other cos. dropped £29,878 and £8394 was
added to the intangibles, raising the pile to
£129,462 at Dec. 31: or £35,368 in excess of
paid capital (£94,094). Thus, after allow-
ing for minor movements, net tangible assets
benefited by only £10,187, although surplus
income amounted to £18.253. This compari-
son of balance-sheet figures shows what hap-
pened :
1924. 1927. 1928.
Government securities ..£10,240 £55,410 £76,743
House-purchase loans .. 10,101 16,277 27,076
Cash and deposits .. 3,556 5,214
Loans on policies .. 345 1,371 1,936
Hook debts . . .. 6,563 3,356 15,710
Owing by other cos. .. 8,778 —.—
Agents’ balances .. 8,610 304 272
Shares in other cos. .. 30,991 1,113
Furniture, cars, stationery 4,024 2,161 2,887
£52,217 £114,084 £124,737
Liabilities .. .. 12,696 3,685 4,151
Net tangible assets .. £39,521 £110,399 £120,586
All the year’s spare money went into public
securities, up £20,333. The increase of
£12,354 in book debts is mostly the balance
owing on the sale of shares. When the last
accounts closed the life fund stood at
£155,471. Assuming that it was sufficient to
cover liabilities under policies, and this is
by no means certain, then the net tangible
assets were £34,885 short of the mark. At
Dec. 31 policy-holders had the protection of
£60,752 of capital uncalled and unpaid.
The report makes no mention of the recent
negotiations concerning a merger with the
Commonwealth Life (Amalgamated) Co.
Unless something can be soon done to place
the business on a sounder footing a merger
or straight-out sale of the business might
become a pressing necessity.
R. H. Gordon and Co., Ltd.
Dividends.
r A "\
Pref. To Re- Re-
Dee., Prefits. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1917.. 30,465 1200 lli p.c.=13,500 15,765 50,845
Transferred to capital, £20.000 .. 30,845
1918.. 30,186 1200 15 p.c. = 21,000 7,986 38,831
inio 1 31,096 1200 15 p.c. = 21,000 8,896 47,727
' ( Transferred to capital, £40,000 .. 7,727
llnternal reserves disclosed and other 1
loon J additions to reserves, £32,721 ( _ .
• | Reserves capitalised, £36,000 ( & > ul *
l 28,766 1200 12* p.c.=27,000 566 j
1921.. 40,612 1200 12* „ ~ 27,000 12,412 17,426
1922.. 41,338 1200 124 „ ~ 27,048 13,090 30,516
£36,000 of internal reserves disclosed and capitalised.
1923.. 46,600 1200 12* p.c.=31,642 13,758 44,274
1924.. 49,464 1200 124 „ ~ 31,805 16,459 60,733
1925.. 57,842 1200 14" „ ~35,728 20,914 81,647
£50,400 of internal reserves disclosed and capitalised.
1926.. 64,131 1200 15 p.c. = 42,480 20,451 102,098
1927.. 64,960 1200 15 „ ~46,080 17,680 119,778
1928.. 65,456 1200 15 „ ~46,127 18,129 137,907
This is the well-known Sydney cash-order
mint built up on a little time-payment busi-
ness which is still maintained witli frills
and extensions. Looking at the results
achieved, it is always tempting to say that
the organisation must be something extra.
Unfortunately, though in this case the
organisation is something extra, it isn’t safe
to judge of the quality of a management by
the profit it produces. This indeed is one
of the most disturbing features of our pre-
sent-day financial life: no matter how good
the organisation, it is practically impossible
for most of our manufacturing concerns or
other enterprises employing much labor to
show decent profits; and those profits are
shrinking in most cases. It is very bad
when the money-lenders and dealers in small
credits —people who employ few hands, and
those mostly unskilled —can make profits far
greater than those won by the best-organised
industrial concerns employing an equal
amount of capital.
The “Wild Cat” doesn’t know, therefore,
whether it should wave its patriotic tail very
high in the air because R. 11. Gordons have
established still another record in profits.
Some profit has no doubt been made from
ordinary trading, but probably not much;
the saddening fact is that modern Sydney is
so hungry to have the things it hasn’t got,
and so willing to borrow in order to buy
them, that of the present paid capital of
£322.400, exclusive of £5lll of employees’
shares, no less than £182,400 has been paid
up out of undivided profits since 1917. To
the holder at par in the latter year the pre-
sent 15 p.c. div. therefore means 34 p.c.,
assuming, of course, that the holder has
hung on to his bonus shares. In view of
the origin of most of the profit, it is a
figure which the “Wild Cat” receives with
mingled applause and tears.
Not the least amazing feature of the case
is that these extraordinary profits are made
with £122.550 of the capital in city pro-
perty, with a trifle of fixtures and plant,
and a considerable amount in furniture and
furnishing drapery stocks—exactly how
much can't be said, because the directors
have made an untidy heap of “stock on
hand” and “hire agreements,” lumping them
at £191,585.
The whole balance-sheet position is next
reviewed :
1924. 1927. 1928.
Sundry creditors, etc. .. £40,815 £49,331 £55,294
Overdraft .. ■. • • 19,182 1,255
Property and plant . . 14,152 125,233 122,880
Stock and hire agreements 107,370 209,321 191,585
Book debts 84,867 79,079 75,081
Shares, debentures and short
Mortgages !! !! ! i 129 * 677 178 - 9^
Government securities .. 19,744
Cash, etc 274 1,384 837
“As usual,” the directors tell us, “ami»le
provision has been made against possible de-
preciation of the co.’s assets, and also the
general reserve fund has been considei-ably
increased/’ This general reserve fund is,
of course, included among the reserves; and
unexplained additions to it have been in-
cluded among the profits.
The next table reconciles the net profit
as shown in the co.’s published statements
and as shown in the first table above:—
Profit as per Unexplained
P. and L. Additions to
Account. Reserves.
1918 .. .. £22,644 £7,642
1919 .. .. 20,132 6,964
1921 .. .. 29,682 11,430
1922 .. .. 29,800 11,538
1923 .. .. 34,126 12,475
1924 .. .. 36,669 12,795
1925 .. .. 39,479 18,364
1926 .. .. 44,576 19,556
1927 .. .. 48,288 16,672
' 1928 .. . . 48,459 16,997
But in addition to the general reserve and
the unexplained additions to it there is the
“provision for possible depreciation,” from
which long stocking no less than £86,400 has
been extracted and capitalised during the
past seven years; so that, if the present pro-
vision for depreciation is large enough, even
the first table understates the profits by
about £lO,OOO a year.
The market says the ordinaries, which
have a visible backing of 2Ss. Bd. in net
tangibles, are worth 545. 6d. The return on
that figure is 5| p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis.
It isn’t safe to count on bonus issues before
they are hatched; thousands of investors
have come to grief by committing that
blunder. But taking all things into account,
including the comparatively small liability,
it doesn’t seem an absurd figure to pay for
these shares. How long the 15 p.c. div. will
last will depend largely upon how long Syd-
ney will remain so voracious after things
it hasn’t got. The prefs, have a net tan-
gible backing of £23 ss. They are cumu-
lative 6 per cents., and are now worth 19s.
At that figure they yield 6.3 p.c.
Caledonian Collieries, Ltd.
, Dividends. Nominal
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1918.. 77,666 21,935 6 p.c.=49,570 6,161 72,976
1919.. 71,631 21,935 6 „ ~49,570 126 73,102
8 p.c.
1920. .133,218 29,247 10 ~ ~ 82,617 21,354 94,456
Total Div.
1921. .147,790 8 p.c. 12 p.c.=l-46,260 ' 1,540 95 996
1922. .130,266 8 „ 9 „„ 129,268 998 96,994
1923.. 79,540 6 „ 5 „ „ 79,038 502 97,496
1924.. 93,842 6 „ 6„„ 89,274 4,568102,064
1925.. 89,242 6 „ 6 „ „ 89,274 102,032
1926.. 76,147 6 „ 4 „ „ 68,802 7,345 109,377
1927.. 58,859 6 „ 3 „ „ 58,566 293 109,670
1928.. 79,105 6 „ 5 „ „ 79,038 67 109,737
This is Australia’s biggest coal-mining co.:
it runs the Aberdare, Aberdare Central,
Aberdare Extended and Aberdare South, the
Waratah, the West Wallsend and the Kil-
lingworth—the Aberdares on the Greta seam,
the least-expensively-tvorked in N. S. Wales;
the Waratah on the Burwood and the others
on the Borehole.
It is one of the cos. which the miners have
in their heads when they talk about stock-
watering. Yet it was hardly that; any-
way. not all that. In 1895 the Cale-
donian iCo. was formed, and either at
once or subsequently acquired a string of
collieries, including some of those held by
the present co. The old Caledonian Co., con-
sisting at one time largely of the cotton
Coatses, had a capital of £350,000; and the
Howard Smiths bought into it whenever
opportunity offered. The old co., which had
its registered office in Glasgow, went out in
1913. It was a time when the English capi-
talist was a good deal disturbed about
N.S.W. investments; the first Labor Govern-
ment was in office, for one thing. Ilow’ard
Smiths, with more faith in the commonsense
of Australia, saw that, though large expen-
ditures must be faced, large possibilities
might also be expected. Believing the time
was ripe, they therefore negotiated during
1911 and ’l2 for the purchase of the interests
not already secured; and eventually they
were in a position to launch a co. with a
paid capital to begin with of £552,507. There
seems to be watering there; but you can't
tell unless you know the size of both the
visible and the internal reserves of the old
co. Some of the best concerns in this coun-
try started with hardly any capital at all,
but put by every available penny for the
extension of the business. There seems to
have been a good deal of this in the case of
the old Caledonian; and what Howard
Smiths actually paid for the shares nobody
knows. Certainly it was in some cases far
above par.
The public ought to distinguish between
stock-watering and stock-feeding. If you
buy a cow for £5 and don’t use the milk, but
sell it and buy good feed for the beast, and
thus fatten it and get it into better nick,
why should you be regarded as a robber if
you then ask £6 or £7 or even £lO for your
beast?
Last year the co. did a shade better than
in the previous term; but the profits of a
big coal concern in any one year art* very
largely a matter of estimation. Nobody has
yet been able to tell us exactly how much of
the proceeds of a year’s sales are profit and
how much exhausted capital. You can some-
times get a fair idea by looking at the move-
ment of balance-sheet items :
1913. 1923. 1927. 1928.
Pief. capital. . £252,500 £464,295 £464,295 £464,295
Ord. capital.. 000,007 1.023.599 1,023,599 1,023,599
Creditors .. 39,710 188,930 328,531 307,066
Overdraft .. 10,671 19,920
Collieries, etc. 904,904 1,645.298 1,787,550 1,766,060
Stores . . . . 14,734 103,724 93,552 50,515
Coal stocks . . 8,808 6,306 13,074 1,646
Book debts .. 41,108 48,062 39,930 58.435
Shares .... 51,302 51,302 51,302
Cash, etc. .. 1,801 809 245 21,376
Now go back five years, and you will find
that, while no new capital has been got
in during that time, more or less liquid assets
have decreased from £210,803 to £183,274,
and on the other hand liabilities have in-
creased from £205,601 to £307,060. Thus, in
order to pay a dividend of 6 p.c. on prof,
capital and an average of just under 5 p.c.
on ord. capital, and to carry on the mines
and replace or make necessary additions to
plant and equipment, the co. lias gone back
£128,994. And meantime many hundreds of
thousands of tons of coal have been taken
from the mines; and the co.’s position has
further worsened by whatever amount that
coal was worth standing in the mines.
It is no use talking much about the visible
backing for shares in a mining co.: that
depends mainly upon the valuation of the
property. The cum. pref. shares in this case
are worth about 15s. 6d. They give a return
of 7.7 p.c. It takes only £14,550 to pay
the 6 p.c. div.; so the profits would have
to shrink very much to endanger the prefs.
Ords. are worth only 12s. 6d. To give a
return of 7 p.c. at that price the dividend
has to average 4$ p.c.
London Stores, Ltd. (Melb.).
Written To Re- Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1919.. 22,111 15 p.c. = 10,500 487 11,124 31.430
1920.. 20,829 15 „ „ 10,500 524 17,805 49,235
1921.. 29,142 173 „ „ 15,250 491 13,401 62,636
1922.. 31,822 173 „ „ 17,500 494 13,828 76,464
Alterations account disappears. . 2,066 78,530
1923.. 48,104 273p.c.= 27,500 455 20,149 98,079
Dropped into reserves .. .. 6,317 103,996
Profit on sale of freehold . . 27,355 131,351
Reserves capitalised, £lOO,OOO . . 31,351
1924. . 50,327 15 p.c.= 30,000 447 19,880 51,231
1925.. 49,634 15 „ „ 30,000 524 19,110 70,341
Prefs. Ords.
9 p.c. 74 p.c.
1926.. 28,048 4500 15,000 583 7,965 78,306
1927.. 21,117 9000 15,000 623 74,800
10 p.c.
1928.. 43,832 9000 20.000 633 14,199 88,999
123 p.c.
1929.. 36,984 9000 25,000 770 2,214 91,213
The “Wild Cat” wouldn’t, as a rule, call a
poet as a witness in a financial matter; but
the one who slid that things are not always
what they seem, or words to that effect,
struck a great truth. Many a man lias been
able to show good profits to a guileless
buyer by the simple process of forgetting to
charge up some of his expenses; and many
a co. has been able to also show large profits
by reason of an extraordinarily good bargain
made with somebody or other for some ser-
vice or other. Unfortunately they are gen-
erally time-bargains; and when the lease, or
whatever it is, runs out. the whole aspect
of things is liable to alter, as the share-
holders in the Civil Service Stores in Sydney
have lately discovered.
When, therefore, you see among the assets in
a balance-sheet “Leasehold,” so-and-so, or
when you don’t see any reference at all to
premises though you know the co. must have
some habitation, it is always just as well
to inquire into that co.’s tenancy. For it
may be, that it is occupying premises at a
ridiculously low rental on a lease which is


■V
4k £ ■
&.-S
" VCy- ■»*
-rrf
<^w\
vM<
j 4
m
re in « u
r'
L
Sl
aTt
VNO*.
it's.
'HJ(<
m
/ '«
I'foL?
g
V
a
0
ViH
;jft
mm
-7 J
=7
<*e-' s^-
23“*
■ o*
*
/I ,Lt>\
n\
£7?
X,
X
\N
'ft
g g
s
&
ii wm
ns
ns
£ll5
j; 111 n
>•>
£3
'.! n4\
CL
X
i L i tev :i, t
ii JteL
&
7/H 1
XA\
r.
Hi
& 2
e..LV-
3@a
Sit;
$1
'J&,
IiPLIU;
z-6
\ 'illTiiYi .!■! ■ i
%
m ;
N?
i <
40E
P
I
•v,'
HUM
m
? UN
HAMPION RESERVE
PORT
C
Jl
5
F BOTTLED by THE MAKERS :
THOMAS HARDY &.SONS LIMITED
-c, fcIDE MELBOURNE & SVDnt
AUSTRALIAN wine EY
. **>
IPINT 6 FLUID 02S.'
2V.y
S9HWB
esr
N
2N:
es
NS>
UV*
y «£«
Fortunate Tintara
OLD-tinted by the rays of a happy sun,
the broad vinefields of Tintara smile
and gladden to a rich success. The repu-
tation of Hardy’s renowned Tintara wines
was, year after year, built here. The dominat-
ing factors of purity and excellence which have
placed Hardy’s Champion Reserve Wines
(Gold Label) on a plane of their own were
created on the glowing fields of Tintara. When
you call for Hardy’s Gold Label wines you
know that 80 years ago age was given to this
fine vintage—age which gives every advantage
to an organisation that to-day can supply the
very finest wines at a price within the reach
of all. At this season of the year every home
should possess Hardy’s wines, and no present
would be more appreciated than a bottle or
case of Hardy’s Champion Reserve Gold Label
Wines.
Procurable in all Hotels and Licensed
Stores where the proprietors are
proud to specialise in high-grade
wines.


Are Your Invest-
ments ROCKY?
MORE THAN HALF
OF ALL REGISTERED
COMPANIES FAIL.
<r
ONLY THE EXPERT
CAN READ THE SIGNS
Australia’s leading ex-
pert is
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
APRIL NUMBER READY FRIDAY.
SINGLE COPY. 2/-; PER ANNUM. 22/6.
From Newsagents, or ‘‘Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
For water-supply systems, irrigation, mining,
dredging, or for industrial plants, Pioneer Wood Pipe
offers permanent and economical service. Pioneer
Wood Pipe provides a thoroughly efficient conduit at
a great saving both as regards initial cost and up-
keep, for it is easily transported, cheaply freighted,
costs less and is quicker to lay down, and is abso-
lutely non-corrosive. Interesting data book on appli-
cation. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Bums
Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove; and
at Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
# * * *
W. Soren Jensen, Mining Engineer, Assoc. 1.M.M.,
London, M.A.1.M.E., A.C.T.S.M., etc., 33 Boyle
Street, Cremorne, Sydney. Box 220 D., G.P.0.,
Sydney. ’Phone, BWIIO6.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
* * :? *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coli.ison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL t
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers'
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
MAY’S BROADCAST FERTILISER SPREADER
\w
/}*:
To Farmers and Graziers
The season is now approaching for
top-dressing your lands, and here
is the Ideal Machine for the job.
Spreads up to 40ft. 50-100 acres
per day.
SIMPLE—CHEAP—EFFECTIVE.
PRICE: £2l net f.o.r. Sydney.
For use with Spring Cart.
£2 extra for Motor-lorry attachments.
Call and Inspect. AGENTS WANTED.
AGENTS:
GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney.
INSURE WITH THE
i
Australian General
Insurance Company Ltd.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centret.
on the very verge of expiry; and either
future profits will be seriously affected by
the increase in the rent for the same pre-
mises, or the entire capital arrangements
of the co. may be changed by the necessity to
acquire a new home elsewhere. And that
acquisition of a new home may destroy a
great part of the goodwill which the co. had
built up; on which point also the Sydney
Civil Service Stores shareholders could offer
some very touching testimony.
This co. began operations in 1911, or
thereabouts, in leasehold premises, and it was
while none of its capital worth mentioning
was sunk in bricks and mortar that it made
those magnificent profits which allowed it
to pay fine divs., and at the same time lay
by excellent reserves. But the balance-sheet
now wears a different look: —
1920. 1920. 1928. 1929.
Liabilities .. £36,100 £135.730 £137,684 £141,605
Stock . . . . 98,819 141,043 147,280 128,413
Property, etc. 40,199 290,143 369,472 377,846
Book debts . . 6,054 4,850 6,627 8,995
Plant, etc. .. 4,714 4,803 4,946 5,449
Cash, etc. .. 20,465 76,697 21,858 40,074
Capital in 1920 was £70,000, the original
figure; it is now £300,000. The great bulk
of the £130,000 of the new capital actually
got in, and the £105,000 of outside dent
incurred and the £191,000-odd of profit un-
divided (£lOO,OOO of it has been capitalised)
has gone into the fine home which the co.
has made for itself at tin* corner of Bourke
and Elizabeth sti'eets; and a more central
home could hardly be got.
Otherwise the co. hasn’t altered its policy
greatly. It still is a cash trader: its book
debts are very small, and it has on hand
enough money to buy on the best terms. Its
ordinary shares are now helped out a little
by 10{),(MX) of 9 p.c. cum. prefs.; but a
greater help lies in the £91,213 of reserves.
Assuming that the pref. capital can just take
care of itself, then the balance of share-
holders’ funds (£291,213) has to earn a shade
over 84 p.c. in order to pay a 124 p.c. div.
on ordinaries.
But profitable trade is not easy. Unem-
ployment grows, and the big department
store is a strong magnet to draw the cash-
paying public past the door of the smaller
specialty house. But there are compensa-
tions even there; for the big city depart-
ment store is bringing shoppers right into
town, and maybe many a man who afore-
time covered his nakedness in Smith-street,
Collingwood, now comes in to Bourke-street
to do it. And being in Bourke-street he' is
always liable to drop into the London Stores.
Pref. shares are worth about 28s. They
have a net backing of £3 18s. in net tangibles,
and give a return of £6 9s. p.c. The ordi-
naries, worth about 365., are backed by 295.
of assets (net), and show a return of just
under 7 p.c. on a 124 p.c. div. basis.
The way Isa has held its price in the
face of the long period of development is
one of the most striking features of the
past year’s market. Now it gets something
really heartening to help it on its way: “The
earthworks in the Mt. Isa station yard are
all completed and the laying of the rails is
in progress. ... Rails have been laid to the
station yard, and several truckloads of
machinery and supplies have been unloaded
there.”
Of course, it is still a long way to Tip-
perary: the plant to deal with such a com-
paratively low-grade proposition must be
enormous to give a hope of profit. But
with the rail completed and people used to
handling big and remote works, a record in
this class of construction is looked for.
There still are pessimists who say that
even Broken Hill couldn’t have been put on
its feet with present labor conditions; and
they ask what hope Isa has. Well, it has
all the hope that the extraordinary metal-
lurgical developments of the past 35 years give
it. And developments in engineering, too ; it
needed a silver-mine to stand the expense of
the great bulks of imported Oregon which
the first of the big managers brought from
abroad put into the Broken Hill Proprietary.
As fofc zinc—so little did the world know
about the separation of silver-lead-zinc ores
that the day it was reported that zinc had
appeared in the Broken Hill Prop, ores the
whole field put on the local equivalent of
sackcloth and ashes.
Not that there can be any very glittering
profit in Isa ore even now. But from the
national point of view there will be some-
thing better than glittering profit—there will
be a magnificent addition to the exportable
wealth of Ausralia, if labor does a fair
thing.
Isa is to have a sintering plant and
blast furnaces; power will be supplied by a
central station equipped with two 5000-
kilowatt turbo steam sets with boilers fired
by coal-dust.
* * * *
Mount Isa Prop, has been formed to acquire
a group of mineral leases and options aggre-
gating 806 acres and adjoining the Mt. Isa
Mines holdings in the Black Star-Ibis region.
An intensive scheme of diamond-drilling on
the deeps and of shafting on the outcrops is
outlined in the prospectus, and arrangements
are being made for rental of drilling plants
and the drawing up of contracts. Capital
is £50,000 in 200,000 shares of ss. each. Of
these, 120,000 are offered in sixpenny nibbles,
with a 6d. per month maximum. Of the
balance, 48,000 f.p.’s go to the vendors in
part payment for leases and options. The
promoter will receive 12,000 f.p.’s in con-
sideration of underwriting the 120,000 on
public issue. The balance, 20,000 shares, are
held in reserve. The total price to be paid to
the vendors in respect of leases and options
is £18,500, including the 48,000 f.p. shares
above mentioned. The balance, £6500, is
payable in cash, £3500 on allotment, and
£3OOO three months after allotment. It is
stated that the share issue has already been
underwritten. Tin l directors are Joe Milli-
ean, John Wren, Randolph Bedford and V.
J. Saddler.
* * * *
Having paid a visit to the financial Voro-
noffs, the English and French people who
stand behind Mt. Elliott (N.Q.) are giving
it another go, and C. O. Schlercth leads a
small resurrection party from Europe and
the U.S.A. He is himself the biggest man
of the quartette, with almost world-wide
experience. It isn’t pleasant to see men
coming like this to Australia, which a few
years ago led the world in the metallurgy
of the baser non-ferrous ores; but the
solemn truth is that we have fallen right
into the background in this matter. Elliott
has a construction programme which will
consume the best part of two years.
* * * *
Tin-mining in the Herberton (Q.) dis-
trict is holding its own at present. The
Great Northern, having completed some
dead work, is on a good make of rich ore.
At Watsonville, an old rich lode, after
years of neglect, has been located beyond
a fault, is showing good stone and is of
some promise. The dredge on Return Creek
at Mt. Garnet is producing about a ton of
black tin per working day. At Irvinebank
the Whitworth co. has men on at surface
and preliminary work at the Governor Nor-
man and Vulcan. It is said contracts
will be let for sinking, etc. It remains to
be seen if the tin recovered will return
the outlay; payable ore, beyond mere scabs,
has yet to be found in each mine. The
Irvinebank mill is beiug purchased by the
co., and arrangements are being finalised.
It would be interesting to know how much
the State has lost through its connection
with this mill and State mining and mill-
ing at Irvinebank.
* * * *
Queensland Mines Minister Alf Jones and
Government Geologist Ball had a look last
month at the Lakes Entrance country
(Vic.), where George Meudell and others
hope that oil may be found. Mr. Ball com-
mitted himself this far: much of the
world’s oil had been found in marine ter-
tiaries similar to those at Lakes Entrance,
and the cores warranted further immediate
tests of the area.
sj« :|t :J; :J:
Australian Roma No. 1 and No. 2 are still
busy under Dr. Jensen’s instructions. Pre-
sent interest is keenest about No. 3 (Euthal-
lah) bore, down 2285 ft., and cored all the
way from 2197 ft., where “an intense flow”
of gas was struck. Jensen looks for the
Roma gas and oil horizon at 2700 ft. Roma
Dome has had an analysis made of the
brown oil met at 1318 ft.: it is natural oil.
So boring goes on cheerfully.
* * * *
Coal, Oil (N.Z.), Ltd., having got the
results of the geophysical investigation of
the New Plymouth areas recommended by
Dr. Bossard, of Zurich, the co. is now
making arrangements to start drilling for
oil on the selected sites. The co. has its
headquarters in Sydney.
* * * *
Mandated Development Co. recently re-
ported a flow of crude oil at the rate of 10
gallons an hour from a depth of 470 ft. at
Matapau, New Guinea. Six bores were
sunk on this area, and each produced a
little oil at shallow depths. The Oriomo Oil
Co. has now undertaken to do Mandated’s
development work in exchange for an option
over half the latter co.’s holding of 1000 sq.
miles.
* * * *
Wooramel, in the lower Nor’-West, has
been added to the list of Westralian oil-
bearing regions. Geologist Talbot, in a
cheerful report, reckons that conditions for
the formation of pools are highly favorable,
and that the structure, with its low dips, is
almost ideal for rock of the carboniferous
age. Sydney is said to be interested.
Apart from this locality and Freney’s,
little interest is at present being taken in the
Westralian oil hunt. There have been yarns
about some of the big Kalgoorlie mining cos.
taking an interest in areas; but the “Wild
Cat” can’t find any support for these tales.
Field-superintendent Talbot and a couple
of imported drillers have sailed from Perth
for Freney’s. It is expected they will suc-
ceed in soon unwatering the bore and then
resume drilling from the point where a small
quantity of oil was met last year.
Although the Golden Butterfly does not
enlighten shareholders much as to the gold
content of the ore broken from the extensii e
developmental operations on its New Mara-
roa mine at Norseman (a parcel of about
100 tons has been milled), the proceedings
of the co. do not lack interest. The latest
development is a writ for fIi.OOO issued by
present directors against old ones and otheis.
It might be as well if the vicissitudes of the
option taken from the owners of the Nev
Mararoa were cleared up, as shareholders are
entitled to know all that happened.
* * * *
McCahon’s latest yield by amalgamation
—1440 z. bullion from 200 tons —is below
the average; it is explained officially that
the tonnage included a quantity of poor stuff
accumulated in the levels. The explanation
is not satisfying. Why was this ore not
treated as it was broken? Further, the
five-head mill seems to have taken longer than
usual to deal with 200 tons.
* * * *
W.A. Minister for Mines has promised the
Glenelg Hills, Perth’s near-by goldfield, a
battery and water supply within three
months. This will give tin* field the chance
for which it has long waited.
* * * . *
Brilliant Gold Mining Co. (W.A.) is short
of funds, and shareholders are to be asked
for more at an early date. A syndicate of
Perth and Kalgoorlie mining men originally
owned the co.’s show, but, not liking pro-
spects at depth, it pocketed a little profit
and got out.
jjt Me >l*
Mararoa shareholders are anxiously await-
ing London’s decision concerning the option
given over its leases at Cue. The option
expires April 38; the latest resport is that
London desires an extension. Whether this
is granted or not, an efficient treatment
plant will be erected on the leases during the
year.
* * * *
South Australia’s mixed bag of minerals
last year just topped the million. Iron ore
stands alone, with nearly two-thirds of the
total value, salt, £160,000, and gypsum (out-
put steadily increasing), £BO,OOO, being the
next best assets. Copper, so long the Cen-
tral State’s specialty, is down to a negligible
£13,000, and gold, f>32oz., a mere also-ran.
* * * #
The Golden Reef Co. is giving Moruya,
on the N.S.W. South Coast, another chance.
There is gold there all right, but the reefs
are narrow, and it takes a lot of work to
make a hundred tons of ore available. The
co. has a battery almost ready to start at
the end of this month, and it can see close
on a thousand tons of ore at and above the
No. 1 level. No. 2 level is in ore also,
but some more work has to be done to make
it available. The stone varies in quality,
but there will have to be much picking to
realise the estimate of 2oz. to the ton. One
thing in the co.’s favor—it has cut over-
head exes. hard. The directors, for in-
stance, have drawn no fees.
* * * *
The first Malayan mining returns to hand
for March are from Alluvial Tin holdings,
and show that output is maintained much
on the level of the previous month. Rawang’s
sluicing and dredging plants turned over
235,000 yards between them, and recovered
75 tons of t.o. This is an improvement on
February, when 225,000 yards yielded 65
tons and the average rose from ,641 b. to
.711 b. to the yard. Costs of the combined
plants are given at 4.64 d. per yard, a trifle
lower than last month’s. Ivundang’s 96,000
yards were responsible for 33 tons of t. 0.,
the February return being 33 tons .from
76,000 yards. The average, .771 b., is a bit
of a flop from the .951 b. of the month before,
but is satisfactory enough. Costs were 5.53 d.
per yard, nearly 3d. a yard lower than for
the February run. Changkat also took mat-
ters easily, the recovery, 60 tons, being the
same as last month’s, but from 160,000 yards
as against 126,000 in February. The yard-
age average dropped from 1.071 b. to .841 b.
per yard, the lowest recorded since digging
was commenced a year ago to the month,
when the return was 17 tons from 61,000
yards, and the average .631 b. Costs were
4.37 d. per yard, a reduction of over a penny
on the previous month. The Kampar Tin
Fields amalgamation recovered 90 tons from
514,000 yards, a big drop all round on the
previous run, when 130 tons came from
480,000 yards and the average was .701 b., the
highest since June last. This time it is .391 b.,
the lowest since the amalgamation in May
last. Costs were 3.53 d.
The figures for the first quarter of the
year are; Rawang, 680,000 yards, 210 tons,
average .691 b.; Kundang, 293,000 yards, 101
tons, average .791 b.; Changkat, 424,000
varus. 203 tons, average 1.071 b.; Kampar
1,527,000 yards, 362 tons, average .561 b.
* * * *
Prime Minister Bruce told the House of
Reps, the other day that Broughton Edge,
the Federal Government’s director of the
geophysical survey, was engaged for two
years at £3OOO a year. Mr. Edge arrived
in Australia on April .‘lO, 1028, and left for
London on November 20, 1028. Under liis
agreement lie has to spend live months in
Australia in eaeh of the two years; the rest
of the time he is allowed to go to London,
lie gets first-class passages, first-class trans-
port in Australia and £25 a month while in
this country. No doubt fools and children
shouldn’t see things half-done; all the same,
on present appearances it is doubtful whether
the Commonwealth is getting good value for
its six or seven thousand.
* * * *
The Placer Development Co., of which
the energetic Freemans, of Sydney, are the
driving force, is still testing the Bulolo
leases, and a series of bores half a mile north
of the southern boundary of the area show
a width of 1900 ft. of dredgeable ground,
not deep, but rich. Cost of equipment in
this district would be heavy, and these
people have been too long in the game to
attempt it before a thorough measuring-up.
* * * *


NOT EDUCATED UP TO IT.
FIRST PARTY BOSS: “I see the Eyetalians had their candidates picked for them by Mussolini.”
SECOND PARTY BOSS: "Yes. The poor devils can’t understand the democratic system under which candidates are chosen by coves like us.”
Poverty
Point
“Cauboy”: The growth of Hoyt’s is a
staggering testimony to the commercial pos-
sibilities of the American film. Begun a
few years ago as a side-issue by a Melbourne
dentist, it could boast of only one small
playhouse in Bourke-street. To-day the
chain of over 100 theatres comprehends most
of the geography of Australia and Maoriland,
and it is reckoned that 35.000,000 people
pay the firm £2,000,000 tribute annually.
In Victoria alone the daily capacity is
140,000, 5000 of which was added when the
Regent and Plaza were built under the
same roof in Collins-street. There is no
person named Hoyt behind it all—Hoyt’s is
only a trade name. G. F. Griffith and F. W.
Thring are the managing directors.
“A.”: What is believed to be a unique
film has been made in Adelaide. Dead
Centre, a former S.A. Grand National
Steeple winner, passed away, and was post-
mortemed by Alderson, a leading vet. Kodaks
filmed the whole operation, as a help to lec-
turers in the veterinary course. The result
was sent to Sydney Show for its first screen-
ing ; later, it is to be widely shown in suit-
able places.
“Cauboy”: Many theatregoers will sympa-
thise with the musician unionists in their
fight for payment as actors if they are called
on to do actors’ work, though they would
deserve it more if they showed more eager-
ness to maintain the dignity of their pro-
fession rather than merely to increase its
emoluments. One of the most tiresome in-
flictions derived from America is this of
converting the orchestra into a collection of
stunt-artists and smart Alicks. It is impos-
-1 sible to sit in a theatre nowadays and listen
to a piece of music without the musicians
leaping up in turn and blaring a lugubrious
ditty through a megaphone, or putting on
paper caps and pretending to be desperately
jolly, or jumping up and hitting each other
over the head with their instruments. Most
of these orchestrions are not actors, and their
attempts at comedy are almost as heart-
rending as some of their music.
“Cine Ma”: The fact that a big group of
Hollywood financiers have paid Wolff
Hoide £600,000 for his color film process
indicates that another revolution is threat-
ening the somewhat breathless movie
industry. The German scientist claims to
have solved the problem of making the
emulsion change into colors after develop-
ment. The next move is to make the pic-
tures really stereoscopic. At present they
are very faulty in this respect, though the
film fanciers have been able to accommodate
their optics to the fact without noticeable
discomfort. A perfectly sterescopic film,
in natural colors and with talking accom-
paniment, is the ideal aimed at. If that is
achieved the pictures will make just as great
demands on the intelligence of their patrons
as does the legitimate theatre. And therein
lies a danger to the cinema box-office.
“Craiser”: The wholesale canning of music
that is going on has led the prophets to pre-
dict that musicians, other than those who
supply the tinned variety, will soon become
extinct. Victoria doesn’t think so—as far
as its younger generation is concerned, at
any rate. The names of successful candi-
dates in this year’s London College of Music
examinations occupy 11 closely-printed
columns of Melbourne Herald. Personally,
I cannot see any more reason why the in-
vention of the squawkies and the panatrope
should nip our incipient Melbas and Grain-
gers in the bud than why the invention of
the. camera should have killed our Streetons
or our Lows.
“A.D.”; “Hamfat” errs in stating (B.
20/3/’291 that millionaire Ebenezer Vickery
bought Sydney Lyceum “as a gift for the
Methodist Church.” His object was to carry
on a more aggressive brand of evangelistic
work than that which operated from the
old Centenary Hall, in York-street, the then
headquarters of the Methodies. Vickery
bought the Lyceum building, closed it as a
theatre, and shut the hotel, compensating the
licensee. He re-modelled the theatre in-
stalled a large pipe organ, put a vigorous
preacher namecl O Donnell in charge and
had meetings (with no collections) every
evening—all at his own charge. It was not
till after Vickery’s death that the Methodists
acquired the Lyceum from his widow. Later
on, in spite of strong protest, it was leased
for picture-shows. “Six days for the Devil
and one for God” is how one reverend objec-
tor put it.
“The Rev. John”: In the flood of com-
ment on “Young Woodley” no one has
mentioned that the only person in it who
really ought to be smacked is Mrs. Simmons.
In a basket of rather fusty eggs she is the
only one consciously bad. Other characters
merely run to form. Simmons is a sound
type, quite prevalent, for when a man has
for 30 years been the Triton among minnows
a schoolmaster is he can scarcely avoid a
superiority-complex. The boys are ordinary,
even Vining; just young fellows at an age
when inevitably they will be groping for sex-
knowledge and sex-fulfilment. Mrs. Sim-
mons, however, had gained these; and her
pretty maternalism in the final scene does
not offset what she was at the start: a
cocotte to a poor kid in human development
only half her age.
“Plamfat”: “The Patsy” has given the
Williamson firm a new record apart from the
unprecedented length of run of a straight
comedy in Sydney; the Firm has three com-
panies playing it —one in England and two
in Australia.
“Imogen”: When theatre managements
take pride in spending such vast sums as
their publicity men say they do on pro-
duction, it is strange they do not do a deal
Avitli Ordnance for a stand of war-soiled
Mark IV Lee-Enfield rifles to replace their
ancient Martini-Henrys with marline-spike
bayonets that figure in all military scoria,
from “Over There” to “Hit the Deck.” Saw
the old Martinis the other night carried by
an army in tin-hats and latest pattern web-
equipment ! This is as bad as the “Light
That Failed” film, in which the 1880 Egyp-
tion Field Force carried 1928-issue Spring-
field rifles.
“Craiser”: Viola Fortesque, who contri-
butes a speaking likeness of a very normal
kind of mother to “Applesauce” at the
Comedy, Melbourne, should be remembered
by Australian theatregoers with the aid of
a powerful mental telescope. She appeared
in a kid’s part with her father at the old
Gaiety, Sydney, in a mixed musical show.
There were three other F'ortescues in the
company, one of them the present lady’s
grandmother.
“Curtain Raiser”: The scenes of riotous
enthusiasm which occurred when Kreisler
last unsheathed his fiddle in Australia may
be repeated next year, if negotiations now
in train are successfully completed. The
police had to be called in at the violinist’s
last Albert Hall recital.
“L. de R.”: Rose Quong, of Melbourne,
has tickled the critics by her dramatic acting
in the Chinese play “The Circle of Chalk”
in London. If the play is the Chinese classic
of the name it recounts how two women lay
claim to the same child, and are told that
she who succeeds in dragging the infant out
of a circle marked on the ground will be
declared its mother. As in the Solomon
tale the real mother discloses her identity
to the discerning judge by refusing to make
her offspring the rope in a tug-o’-war. Miss
Quong has not confined herself to characters
of her own race. She appeared as Aspatia
in “The Maid’s Tragedie” during the John
Fletcher tercentenary (1925) in the Great
Smoke and in Shakspeare in Australia.
“TV.m” • Tii-r, ru-n™ T „„ A
to accept what Hollywood hid S ?o VaJ
countries 1 dfdn t kuo fis osneT truth h
Xr "eeiJg ‘The GM from R o” I begS
u nv „ T >- • ... f
S it l n
i,,s “ ch “■«*<*" is equi™l?n! “ a
„ nf i m 0,! L h 4 A? U ii
o.f v J n? o but th ° blm
"Ebm ? !,! of a piet resque media-
®«“® < )f .J th « £ atl °" al c< f
ron j’j «,' “ ' ?, 11/,I 1 /, met -
Xut 1 b follow th< ' wearers
„ A „„
f l .* 3 ' i Die. American jazz merchants
con t. inue to aspire to the higher realms of
• nU r>?' ~ eor " <! Gershwin, whose “Rhapsody
* n /-* lu e was performed by a full orchestra
last . year m Melbourne, lias followed that
“An° l American iri^aris®, ym S^ ony 011 titled
depict a Yankee leaving 'his hotel aSd waS
derino- thrmio-h rVi O oirone. m lt aim wan
centre of Europe! until, tired ou? he site on
a nark sear 'There he wttl. 1 j s
home-sickness until a Wltb
happens along, and the t\vo exile" IE
ea ch other rm with ' X V < S caeer
The noises of the stiwte af “? th T
orchestrated, from the squealing of brakes
to the sound of taxi-liorns
uni . „
a ai n )oy : The orchestra at Melbourne
tatc ; Theatre goes up and down like ship-
wrecked sailors on the back of a whale.
" „„ York, last
' m ’ 1 v - ai ’. hydraulic platform nearly
Si/ the acenas ’ . D . avi( l
on sailing nn wfin con<^ac *°L insisted
the annlanse dmn ra crew and intercepting
• SP? * e , w , hen the Principals were tak-
ing S*? final bows - He was put off for a
month, but, on returning, promptly repeated
t i„, nffeneo ire™ 1 +-1, ,u '
1 ° l ttenae -. After “at the management
placed a burly mechanic over the machinery
with instructions to keep David firmly under-
* “Flicker”: For some time there has been
war in Pert h among the theatres Tim
three main picture-shows—the Prince of
Wales Hoyt ’ s Regent and the Ambassadors
(at H is Majesty’s there are only occasional
performances)—try all sorts of curious
dodges to beat each other. The talkies are
at last due in the city ; the Prince and
Hoyt’s will begin to use them about the
same time. The Ambassadors, which, like
the Prince, is owned by Union Theatres, is
evidently going to rely on its interior de-
eorations and vaudeA'ille acts.
A SYMPATHETIC CHORD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Having witnessed ‘The Journey’s End,’ a piece
without a single woman character, the Prince of
Wales declared it to be the best play he had ever
seen.”
The manager’s bland, smiling face
Displayed the ease of mind he knew.
“Your Highness,” quoth he, “by your grace
You’ve admirably voiced my view.
Besides a patron of the chase,
You might have been a showman, too!
“I ran some tigers long ago,
But they were docile, gentle things;
Performing wasps I used to know—
What, after all, were all their stings?
I’ve managed actresses and so
I sense where genuine trouble springs.”
Some fleeting furrows creased his brow
As if from memories dire he shrunk.
“If you had been a showman, now
You'd know why managers get drunk!”
Prince Eddy bowed a royal bow
And winked —or, if you like it, wunk.
N.S.W.
HAMFAT.


£7-
ENGAGEMENT RINGS
€2O
the: to: A-
..\&
£2O
£2O
£2O
c;)£c
£2O
Some of our newest Diamond Designs.
FAIRFAX o ROBERTS L TD
23r25 HUNTER ST.
Jfw Old&sfJeweLlßfvif Figure ux Sydney
A 2,
A?
Convenient
.
M 11 vV'
°t x m
jjfj SM ft f i
J WI cdnb
U til
i"IW-.I?l;
_ >» jfisAjr
-‘.a
W*
At The Australia ” you are in the heart of
everything—time and travelling alike are saved
you.
This sketch from the promenade roof shows four
well-known Banking Houses, also the Tourist
Bureau offices and the clock tower of the G.P.O.
(chime silent during night hours).
Stay at "The Australia” and you will ap-
preciate its notable convenience.
Wireless, Cable and Telegraphic
Address'. ”Austraotel, Sydney,”
Capital Paid-up , £ 422,100.
THE HOTEL OF THE
COMMONWEALTH
SYDNEY.
d
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Desert Song”
Criterion “Young Woodley”
Royal “Hit the Deck”
Palace “The Wrecker”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Town Hall Erica Morini
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's “The Vagabond King”
Royal “This Year of Grace"
King’s “The Ghost Upstairs”
New Comedy “Applesauce”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
———•
Erica Morini has conquered Sydney. H’er
audience at the Town Hall on Saturday
night was hers before she was half-way
through her opening number, the Beethoven
sonata in F for violin and piano, Op. 24.
Afterwards came a rich feast of fireworks,
but the little brown lady, who brooded with
closed eyes over a fiddle that at timef was
obscured by rebellious locks of raven hair,
established in that one sonata her claim to
be considered mistress of her chosen instru-
ment.
The piece, despite its conventional form
and classical contour, lias the freshness of
a dewdrop on a spring morning. It irradi-
ates hope, happiness and faith, and under
Miss Morini’s magic bow it sang out as
artlessly as the carol of a lark. “Artlessly”
is used deliberately. Like another great
woman instrumentalist, Madame Carreno,
Miss Morini has the gift of reducing to
apparent simplicity the most tangled com-
plexities and the most formidable of virtuo-
istic feats. Her confidence is superb, and
affects her audience, which has no fear that
her technique will prove inadequate no
matter what test she puts it to. In fact,
once under the spell, the listener forgets all
about technique and revels in the music, only
to remember later that the melody that
flowed so spontaneously involved prodigious
exercises in harmonics, double-stopping and
all the other tricks of the fiddler’s trade.
After Beethoven came, in importance,
Wieniawski’s Concerto, Op. 22. It was a
transition from gold to tinsel in respect to
musical content, but offered the performer
an opportunity to demonstrate her com-
mand of —almost her contempt for—the bril-
liances of execution and the wealth of intri-
cate ornament with which the Russian deco-
rated his somewhat slender themes. Beet-
hoven’s Rondino, the one transcribed by
Kriesler, was better fare, magnificently pre-
sented, and then came the Tartini varia-
LUCY AHON, a talented Melbourne amateur, who was Jeanne in
the Australian drama “The Touch of Silk" last year, and
has just appeared in “The Bird in Hand.”
tions on a Corelli gavotte, Paganini’s varia-
tions on the “Prayer” from Rossini’s “Mose
in Egitto”—a tour rle force of virtuosity—and
a Ilandel larghetto movement, done with
great dignity and grandeur. Encores were
reserved till the end. when, in response to
excited clamor, Miss Morini gave pieces by
Brahms, Kriesler and Chaminade, and
played the “Londonderry Air,” beloved of
Percy Grainger. It was a great recital, and
a percentage of the success of it was due to
Jacob Gimpel—that rare bird, a perfect
accompanist.
* * *
The report that Noel Coward had writ-
ten the book, lyrics and music (including
“The Blue Danube,” presumably) of “This
Year of Grace” and that it was therefore
full of wit, unusualness and originality,
moved The Bulletin to don its best bib
and tucker, brush up its intellect and re-
pair to the Melbourne Royal on Saturday
full of a joyful anticipation. “This Year”
proved to be bright, busy, dressy and legful
enough, but if there was wit and originality
in it they escaped the notice of this paper.
For instance, the sketch “Teach Me to
Dance Like Grandma,” wherein the com-
pany appeared—the women in bustles and
the men in leg-o’-mutton sleeves —and per-
formed a waltz, seemed to be not altogether
unfamiliar to The Bulletin. It felt
equally at home when "Rules of Three ’
turned out to be a skit on the. eternal
triangle, worked out in terms of Sir James
Barrie, Frederick Lonsdale and Edgar Wal-
lace. As for the wit, a sketch entitled “The
Ringer” went this way: Edwin Brett
appeared ringing a bell. Edward Coventry:
“Who is that?” Brian Buchel: "That is
the Ringer.” Coventry: “How do you
know?” Buchel: “Because of liis hat.’
Curtain. Then there was the skit on "The
Desert Song.” Charles Hawthorne, in a
green cloak: “I am the Red Shadow.” Jane
Douglas: “Why, then, are you dressed in
green?” Hawthorne: “To make it more diffi-
cult.” Curtain.
Nevertheless, “This Year of Grace” has its
entertaining moments, though none of the
mainly English company can be accused of
being in possession of anything that could
by any stretch of the imagination be de-
scribed as a Voice. Maisie Gay, with a habit
of playing to the gallery, was a typical
Anglo-Saxon comedienne, whose immense
vitality was a testimonial to the stimulating
properties of the roast beef and Yorkshire
pudding of Old England; and Pat and Terry
Kendall showed a nimble pair of heels.
Molly O’Doherty was an American girl
who sang as American girls sing but had
a sentimental appeal which the English
ladies lacked. “Dance, Dance, I )ance, Little
Lady, Dance,” was a macabre item by
Edward Coventry, Katinka Starace and a,
corps of local ballerini which got nearest to
what the Coward brand led one to expect.
* *
By four o’clock on Saturday afternoon
142,000 head of humans were jostling each
other to get a look at the Sydney Show-
ground ring and ex-
hibits. To date the
weather has been
kind, and that
seems all that’s
necessary to ensure
attendance and
cash records being
knocked every year.
Present Showman
gathered to cheer
at the spot where
his native country
—North Coast and
Tablelands won
the big event, the,
district exhibit of
vegetation and
other products, but
he tried in vain to
get within axe-ring
of the inadequate
corner where sun-
dry of his country-
men were chopping
their way industri-
ously through inof-
fensive sticks of
wood. The big
affair closes on
Saturday.
* *
“The Vagabond
King,” successor to
“The Desert Song”
(the Firm lias no
time for the ridicu-
lous theory about
the value of rota-
tion of crops), pur-
ports to be a leaf
torn out of the
autobiography of
Francois Villon
(1431-87), but it
is a leaf from
which the blood-
stains and the
birth-stains, if not
beer-stains, have
been musicomed-
ishly expunged. A
good deal of the evening is devoted to songs
about booze, during which the 80 or so
tavern men and girls stagger about the stage
exhibiting 80 differing notions about how an
inebriated person should behave.
James Liddy portrays a Villon who is a
sort of musical Beau Nash with a desire
to marry above his station in life. As for
his assumed wickedness, The Bulletin has
heard more convincing confessions of sin at
Salvation Army -meetings from elderly spin-
sters with a consciousness of having missed
the matrimonial ’bus. Time has only served
to enrich Strella Wilson’s voice, while the
same fell enemy of prima donnas cannot be
said to have overdone things in providing
the lady with a presence robustly in keeping
with the spirit of Louis Eleven's allegedly
merry reign. Arthur Stigant is occasionally
obvious and even amusing behind the make-
up of Guy Tabarie. The features of hand-
some staging and
admirable chorus
singing are so
usual in a William-
son show as hardly
to need mention-
ing. An unusual
feature is the bad
enunciation of all
the principals ex-
cept Arthur Green-
away, who is the
king.
* *
Picturesque,
tuneful and alto-
gether a delightful
entertain ment,
“The Desert Song’’
began its Ilarbor-
side career on
Saturday after
having broken box-
office records for
the Firm in Mel-
bourne. In gen-
eral, it is kin with
the usual musi-
comedy tribe —-col-
orful scenes and
tableaux effects,
song in solo and
chorus, women
wearing the sort
of clothing that
any woman would
give her hair to
wear the same
way, and men
wearing raiment
that a man would
not wear to a
fancy dress ball
unless very drunk.
In one or two
details, however, it
rises out of the
rut. It has some-
thing that closely
resembles a real
plot, and it has a
central character sufficiently striking to
hold interest throughout, so that the on-
looker gets the impression of following the
story in a credible play. That central char-
acter, the Red Shadow, is, in fact, so fine a
theatrical conception that the breaking up
of the story with unrelated funny and other
interludes is rather irritating, especially as
Herbert Mundin’s fun is nearly always low
if not low-down comedy.
Lance Fairfax makes of the Red Shadow
the sort of theatrical figure that sticks in
the memory. His appearances in his scarlet
desert raiment and mounted on a white hors ■
are fine splashes of color in an entertainment
upon which all the vivid colors have been
lavishly squeezed. Marie Bremner is a taking
musicomedy lady, and Renee Murphy ana
Maud Zimbla help admirably to add to the
general gaiety. The scenes include moun-
tains, wonderfully colored headquarters, a
harem and other choice spots, all with haunt-
ing music to match.
* * *
Although it had to compete with the
noisiest ventilating plant in Melbourne,
Fritz Hart’s first cheap symphony concert at
the Town Hall was a great success. At
least 3000 music-lovers paid their two
shillings or one shilling (there was a marked
preference for the last-named). Mendelssohn’s
Italian Symphony is not such as to cast
great strains on the mental digestion and
was rendered with much charm, especially by
the violins. Louis Hattenbach’s Australian
tone poem was a blushing debutante in a
programme composed mainly of items that
have been hallowed by repetition. The re-
ception accorded the rosy-tinted composition
would have mollified even an Australian
novelist.
* * *
The almost new Tributary Theatre, whose
aim is to “contribute in all sincerity to the
ever-demanding stream of drama,” did Drink-
water’s “Bird in Hand” at the Queen’s Hall,
Melbourne, one night last week, There was
more sincerity than art in the performance,
which was also hampered by the absurd
restrictions of the Queen’s Hall stage. If an
actor says Ha! and takes two steps back-
wards on that 30 by 20 arena of the drama
he either (1) collides with another actor,
(2) knocks over a chair, or (3) walks clean
off the stage on to the auditorium floor. It
is hard to judge either the Tributarians or
Drinkwater under these conditions, _ but it
may be said that the theme of the girl who
shocks the conventions of her yeoman family
by having an affair with a limb of the aristo-
cracy has been done before, and vastly better
done, by another author under the name of
“Hindle Wakes.”
Last week Mendelssohn's "Elijah’ was
given another outing by the Melbourne Phil-
harmonic Society, aided by the I- Diversity
Symphony Orchestra. The revival served to
reintroduce Evelyn Scotney in a preliminary
canter prior to her concert appearances. In
the widow’s portion her pure and fresh notes
were allied to much dramatic feeling. A new
MOLLY O’DOHERTY, in the Noel Coward revue “This Year
of Grace,” at Melbourne Royal.
Elijah appeared in Herold lvyng, an English
singer now on the Uni. Con. staff. His diction
is excellent, and he should be a success on tae
concert platform. The chorus made a pro-
mising beginning, but broke, through the
barrier with the orchestra in the second
number, so conductor Bernard Heinze
ordered a fresh start. Recovering, the chor-
isters finished better in the finals. The pace
of “Thanks Be to God” must have made a
speed record for presentations of the oratorio.
* * *
Sydney Tiv. was running an attractive
bill when The Bulletin looked in last
week. Nat Madison carried on with his
dramatic sketch, which has Bertha Riccardo
and Lucille Lisle in support. More in the
true variety manner was the . revue
headed by Shuron de Vries; it is well
labelled a “miniature musical comedy in five
scenes.” All the ingredients of musicomody
are in it, including some pleasing light songs
and rattling good dancing. Jack Barty—as
English as roast beef —was still proving him-
self a first-class laugh-provoker. A hearty
lad, Jack —a few centuries ago 'he’d have
been as indispensable as the beer at the royal
eating. The Tiv. has been showing a marked
preference for Britishers lately, and has not
been losing on the deal. Vine and Russell,
also from the Cold Land, have a voice and
some good patter for their dress-suit turn.
Among other good ones are Mack and La
Rue in an exciting roller-skate act, and
Pen-ill and Bonzo, tip-top tumblers.
* * *
Melbourne Tivoli’s programme last week
comprised so many good things that some of
them will have to be left out. Wonderful
Ada Reeve was one. The local sentimentsia
will always give a good reception to a re-
vival of Ada. Syd Seymour, from England,
made a first appearance, and displayed an
amazing versatility about the feet. Tom
Katz and his band returned, and were rap-
turously received. Young Jean Florian, the
juggler, continued to reveal a surprisingly
mellow talent for one apparently so young;
but his act was a trifle too long.
* * ¥
What one likes specially about Nikola,
showing his old tricks and some new ones
at Adelaide Royal, is his personal grip of
affairs. He can do marvels with a ton of
stage effects, but is just as effective when
he gets down to his bare hands and a few
rings or eggs. Nellie Stewart is just start-
ing at the Royal with a strong co. In
all the picture shows business is as usual.


Queensland
Insurance Cc.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Pisk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc;
I-*;
m
P'HE GREYS
SIZE oT WO
SILK CITT VIRGINIA
They Satisfy
because they are made from 100
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys”
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a “GREYS.”
DRAP
VXD N DON
1® for fdl. CIGARETTES 2® for
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights”
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20.
OEi?
&PA O'S
The Sign of
QUALITY
The Wunderlich Trademark is
a sign of quality it is your
guarantee of sterling value in
the following materials: —
Art Metal Ceilings, Terra Cotta
Roofing Tiles, Asbestos Cement
(Durabestos) Building Sheets.
Look for the trademark on these
products, when you purchase.
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-INSEED OIL
“Dalguise”: A gift for pithy moralising
was exercised by an old "praacher” who was
a power among the Cousin Jacks of Long
Gully in my young days at Bendigo. He
was holding forth one Sunday on the evil
results following filial disobedience, and in-
stanced the case of John Thomas Tregon-
ning. “His feyther gev him money to bot a
Bible. Stid o’ that he went up along and
bot a gun. Now look you what happened.
A r ery first time ’e shot, gun shot ’e.”
* * rt *
“Ego”: The latest publication of the
Walter and Eliza Hall Institute, dealing
with snakes and their venom, shows that
the venom of the Australian death adder
has a killing power 2.7 times greater than
that of the Indian cobra. This fact, coupled
with its efficient biting mechanism, places the
death adder first on the list of dangerous
Australian snakes. Then comes the tiger
snake with a venom 24 times more lethal
than that of the death adder —in fact, more
potent than the venom of any other snake —
but it fills second place on the danger list
because of its shorter fangs and their iimited
forward movement. The copper-head comes
next in order of lethality, followed bv the
brown snake, which, though it produces a
powerful venom, yields it in smaller quantities
and has the least efficient biting system.
The black snake comes last, for though it
has an effective inoculation mechanism its
venom is very inferior from a lethal stand-
point. The black snake is rarely, if ever,
responsible for the death of an adult.
* * * #
“Dalguise”: They were discussing Dave’s
marriage in the Dairyman’s Arms.
“Cripes!” said Dad Jordan. “Lil’s lucky to
be. mnrryin’ a con idcrate bloke like Dave.
He’s just had the cowyard moved two chain
nearer the ’ouse so Lil won’t ’ave to walk
so far for the milkin’.”
,|, * >it *
“Bad Australian”: It’s late in history to
start arguing about dates in the career of
the Kelly gang, but members of the Council
have been calling each other liars, so here’s
the tally from police records. Sergeant Ken-
nedy and troopers Scanlon and Lonergan
were shot on the Stringybark Creek (Vic.)
in October, 1878, and consequent on this
the Kelly gang came into existence. Jeril-
derie was stuck up and the Bank of New
South AVales looted in February, 1879, and
the outlaws met their Waterloo at Glen-
rowan in June, 1880. Toe statement that
the Queensland black-trackers never came
within coo-ee of the bushrangers is not borne
out by the facts. One of them was wounded
in the head while taking part in the attack
on the outlaws at Glenrowan, and the Vic.
police were so impressed with their work
that trackers were regularly employed
thereafter.
:]• * * *
“Mimosa” : Here are a few more instances
of the wonderful endurance of good horses.
A chestnut gelding originally owned by Gar-
diner, the bushranger, carried Willie Thorn,
no lightweight, from AA’arra to Fassiferu (Q.),
125 miles, in 16 hours. Slave, a champion
hackney in both Australian and Cape Colony
show-rings, was ridden from Thuraggi to
Surat (Q.), 109 miles, in 13 hours. A brown
mare got by an Arab from a thoroughbred
mare sired by the famous Duke of Athol
carried its rider 410 miles in well under four
days. I myself rode an unbroken, unmouthed
seven-year-old horse of Panic blood from
Commadagga to Somerset East (Q.), 87
miles, in under nine hours. Chasing horses in
the desert in Egypt during the last war I and
others covered 115 miles in a day on walers
that had only been in the country three
weeks.
EXPERT OPINION.
MILK-OH : “Wot yer reckon’s wrong with it, Missus? Looks as right as rain to me."
“Pudden”: I nominate the gins of the
Georgina River (Q.) as the world’s most
accomplished extempore weepers. They can
let loose a flood of tears that would melt the
hardest heart. I have seen two gins taking
part in a mourning ceremony conversing
aside, one telling the other a funny story.
Both were chuckling merrily and shaking
with suppressed glee. Suddenly the choir-
masters, or conductors, demanded a wail in
concert. Those two happy gins immediately
screwed up their faces, dropped their lips, and
exuded twin streams from their eyes as they
rocked and yelled in misery.
:J: : i : #
“Mulyan”: I have known several cases
of a hunted animal turning on the hunter,
but what happened to a youth named
Freeman near Toowoomba (Q.) would be
hard to beat. He was after kangaroos with
a double-barrelled gun, and, seeing a boomer
standing on top of a hill, put the gun
down to get a drink at a creek below him
before climbing up after it. AYhile he was
bending over the water, the quarry moved
and dislodged a stone, which rolled down
and struck the triggers of the gun, dis
charging both barrels. Freeman got the con-
tents of one barrel in the right leg; the
other charge hit a rock beside him and
showered him with splinters. The ’roo
bounded off. A doctor extracted 14 pellets
of shot from Freeman’s leg and several bits
of stone from his arm and neck. Besides
these damages, the victim of circumstance
had an injured lip, several cuts on the face
and a black eye.
* * * *
“Avon”: A fish that lived in a strange
environment was a fair-sized black trout that
had its habitat in a hotel dive in Christ-
church (M.L.) about 30 years ago. It lived
in a sink let into the top of the counter, in
which glasses were washed, and though the
water was continually flowing it. must have
been pretty alcoholic at rush hours. This
trout was a pet with the habitues, and when
he felt hungry he would come to the sur-
face, open his mouth imploringly and wait
for scraps of counter-lunch. Lettuce, bread,
cheese, scraps of saveloy—he relished them
all.
3)C *3* -I s
“Gouger”: Islanders and aboriginals arc
afraid of sharks, of the man-eating variety.
Also, sharks do occasionally get a diver. The
boys show great bravery on such occasions.
I remember a case off Tutu Island. A boy
came swirling up from the bottom with his
belly bitten clean out. He gasped once as he
broke surface, then filled with water and sank
immediately. There was a race of the swim-
mers to reach the dinghies, for when once a
shark has had a taste he looks for more. A big
brown boy, strangely ashen about the gills,
methodically arranged a coil of rope. To the
scared looks of his comrades he replied
softly, “Tha’s my brother —my one blood. I
mus’ dive down. Suppose shark get me, alia
same—we go t’gether.” 'He dived to the
bottom, found his brother’s body and
attached the rope. He got back safe. vVe
buried the boy under the palms of Yam
Island.
* * *
“Up Top”: A gland goes wrong—hence
the giant man or woman. So say the scien-
tists. Nature applies the same rule, but just
as sparingly, in the animal kingdom. I’ve
known a pure-bred wallaby to grow as -large
as a moderate-sized ’roo, while an old duck
I met up north was the size of a goose. If
this particular gland could be located and
developed, a powerful blow would be struck
at 11.C.L. AVe could grow fowls as big as
emus with corresponding eggs; sheep as
large as cows (what a harvest for squatter
and shearer!), and cattle as bulky as ele-
phants. It would be pretty awful though if
rats acquired the secret and grew the size
of dogs, while dogs that ate the rats grew
to the size of tigers, with fleas on ’em as big
as blowflies.
“Hayband”: While it is true that bunny
arrived with the First Fleet, and at
intervals thereafter, the real Australian
rabbit-plague was born at Barwon Park, near
Geelong, on Christmas Day, 1859. The early
importations were a hutch-bred type,
totally unfitted for a wild life. Many
escaped from the settlements at Sydney and
Melbourne, but became extinct; they knew
nothing about burrowing, and consequently
were an easy mark for the cat and dog. On
the date mentioned the Black Ball clipper
Lightning arrived at Geelong with 24 wild
rabbits aboard. This was a different type
of bunny, stronger aud faster, and able to
burrow. Within three years Melbourne
Argus remarked that the rabbits at Barwon
Park had become a local nuisance, and
threatened to become a pest to the colony.
Prophetic utterance! Legislation was first
levelled against them in 1883.
(Continuedl on next page.)
OVER HERE!
[FO R THE BULLEITN.]
From the clearing in the valley where the
hobbled horses graze
Lifts the Main Range to the westward,
looming clear;
All through the starlit evenings of the hard,
hot summer days
Do the tall peaks seem to beckon, “Over
here!
Break the camp and come on over, over here,
It is waiting for you somewhere on our
slopes.
Stow the tents and roll the blankets, load the
gear,
Pack the hammers, drills and fracture and
the ropes.”
As the fire leaps and flickers, as the fitful
shadows dance,
And the chill night air comes drifting
down the pass,
And we listen for the horses lest they work
away perchance,
As they nose along the valley after grass ;
As the talk is growing patchy and infrequent
the reply
Lifts the night wind in the ridges, moaning
drear,
And you seem to hear the query through
the swaying timber sigh,
“Are you coming, are you coining over
here?”
So you lie and drowse and listen ’neath
the splendor of the stars,
And you hear the bells a-jangle clear and
fair,
And the stream below is singing, as it frets
along the bars,
“You will find it on the ridges, over there.
There’s a line of junction country on the
break.
You will see the outcrop showing bold
and bare.”
So we listen to the murmur half-awake:
“It is waiting, waiting for you, over
there.”
Through the clatter of the morning while the
filtered light is grey,
Through the fog that until midday nil]
not clear,
With the carol of the magpies as they wake
the coming day,
Comes the soft insistent whisper, “Over
here!
A DIFFERENCE OF OPINION.
“Hang on — he’ll run away with you!”
“Cripe, Boss, mine tinkit him run away without me!”
Won’t you come and prove the richness of
the ore
Where my peaks are clear uplifted, tier on
tier?
Mine is country that was never tried before,
And it’s waiting, waiting for you, over
here.”
N.s.w.
E. W. O’BRIEN.


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire ,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
ADFIELDS
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS —DISC CRUSHERS —GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
HacUields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and l Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
Foundries i Bassendean, Berth, W.A.
Branch ( 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
. Office j T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
TO INVESTORS
WITH LARGE OR SMALL AMOUNTS
The Merron Estate Ltd.
FINANCIERS
Established, 1917 Authorised' Capital, £50,000
The Merron Estate, Ltd., will Accept Moneys for Deposit from £5
upwards at the following rates of interest, payable quarterly:
3to 6 MONTHS . . . . 7 PER CENT.
12 MONTHS 10 PER CENT.
24 MONTHS 12* PERCENT.
APPLY THE SECRETARY
THE MERRON ESTATE LTD.
LONDON BANK CHAMBERS, 18 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
“Foops”: A discovery of immense interest
to archaeologists was made in Sydney’s
George-street the other day. Workmen exca-
vating for a gas-wire conduit unearthed a
strange implement, T-shaped,the cross piece of
rounded ebony, about three inches long and
half an inch thick, and the other part of
rusty iron in spiral form. The emblem is
considered by De Wantzawizky to have
a distinct connection with the worship
of the Roman god Bacchus, and the possibility
that it was brought here by a Venetian ex-
pedition three thousand years ago is
exercising the minds of savants. It is re-
garded as significant that when the old
Grand Hotel building nearby was dis-
mantled for rebuilding purposes some months
ago several Venetian blinds were found in a
“HE LOVES ME, HE LOVES ME NOT.”
storeroom, and still more significant that a
very old Italian gentleman, a native of the
City of the Doges, when shown the strange
find, declared that he remembered having seen
something similar when he was a very little
boy.
* * *
“Narara”: Has anyone sampled peach
wine? I recently struck some that had
been maturing in wood for nearly four
years. Its bouquet was fine and its taste
delicious, but it had a cloudy appearance.
If this could be eradicated the stuff should be
well worth a place among our heavier table
wines. Incidentally, the vintage I sampled
had a kick like two mules.
“Murkah”: On Samarai, Woodlark and
adjacent islands I saw a tree which spends
about half its life in an endeavor to pull
itself up by the roots. It commences life
like any other tree. When it has soared
fibout 20ft. (a year’s work) it sends out
four or five strong shoots from a point
about sft. high on the trunk. These grow
steeply down and take root,
and being more slender and
vigorous than the main stem
they grow more rapidly. This
puts a tension on the root,
which, in about four months’
time, is extracted from the
soil. Later, it can be seen
two or three feet clear of
the soil, and the plant is
slowly dying. Literally, it is
committing suicide.
* * *
“Atherton”: The N.Q.
jungles are a study in vine
growths. These range from
a thickness far exceeding
that of a ship’s hawser to
a thread as fine as a girl’s
hair. The thick cable growths
loop from tree to tree over
a distance of hundreds of
yards, sagging heavily. It is
these cables that make the
scrub-fallers’ job dangerous,
for when they are bringing
down a “drive” of trees a
cable may pull the mass in
their direction. Another vine
has a comparatively slender
stem on which it rises to the
tallest tree-top, and then
swings out from tree to tree,
carpeting the tops in a cur-
tain of delicate foliage. An-
other grows in a series of
spirals. Yet another grows
in a bamboo-like clump and
sends out long feelers that
arch to the ground, only to
spring up and search for a
tree. The lawyer-vine gives
forth many lengths of cane,'
the majority of which creep
along the ground. Sometimes
it reaches a low-lying branch
and immediately begins to
climb to the top, and, not satisfied, keeps
on across the tops of the trees.
* tf if *
“Up Top”: Some rocks, under varying
conditions of temperature, behave very
strangely. There is
a boulder-covered
hill in N.Q. which,
after a bitterly cold
night followed by a
fierce sun, makes
sounds like rifles
popping. It is
flakes of granite
bursting out from
the boulders. The
boulders are almost
round, and fallen
about them are
countless flakes
about a quarter-
in c h thick. The
great rocks seem to
be built in layers,
like gigantic stone
onions. A particu-
larly nasty type of
rock was encoun-
tered at depth in
one of the Hill-
grove mines. It was
liable to split sud-
denly and violently
when bored with a
drill. On one
occasion the whole
wall of a drive
burst in, killing one
man and injuring
several. There are
rocks which, when
brought to the sur-
face from a depth
and left exposed to
the air for a few
weeks, crumble up.
This stuff is liked
by miners, for it is
easy to crush. Some
rocks can be
, . softened by burn-
ing; others explode with a belch of sul-
phurous fumes.
“Paul C.”: When the mistletoe (Aus-
tralian version) attaches itself to an oak its
foliage resembles that of the oak, while on
other trees the leaves of the parasite take
on the characteristics of th e leaves of the
host they are attached to. Question is, has
each type of tree got a mistletoe peculiar
to itself, or has the mistletoe the power to
imitate any sort of leaf?
* * * *
“Huia”: Maorilaud possesses a unique
spring in Hamurana. the famous Rotorua
pool. Although Hamurana is in the land of
strongly mineralised waters it is pure and
clear as crystal, and the water that bubbles
up from unplumbed depths is icy cold. The
force is such that it is almost impossible to
make anything sink more than a few feet,
AND SIMMER GENTLY.
“The fat cove looks appetising, but what are you going to do with that weed you’ve
got with ’im?"
“Use it for vegetable, your Majesty.”
and the thousands of pennies thrown down
by boatloads of trippers who sail oyer the
spring are sent dancing back until they
lodge on one of the rock ledges. Venturesome
visitors who plunge into the spring are tossed
about in cork-like fashion. Some time ago
the Tourist Department made a clearance
of the copper wealth of Hamurana, and col-
lected a goodly sum in cash. The guides
solemnly state that Hamurana could easily
provide enough water for London.
* * * *
“8.W.Q.”: I once shot a pure white
native bear on Nindooinbah station, in
the Logan district. Queensland. It took
several shots to dislodge and the blood-
stains on the white fur took a lot
of eliminating. The fur was a gem, thick,
deep and lustrous. I have also seen white,
cream and buff ’possums in the Upper Bur-
nett district (Q.), but how these freaks
originate stumps me.
* * * *
“Ess”: A queer character who hasn’t been
seen for years was the crank surveyor who
made a name for himself on the overland
telegraph route years ago. From time to
time cattlemen met him travelling aloug
the line with an old broken theodolite.
He said he was surveying for the trans-
continental railway. Apparently he subsisted
on what he could capture in the bush, for
very few opportunities came his way of
getting other food. Wonder what happened
to him?
tf * # *
“J.V.D.”: As there have been inquiries on
the subject, I venture to suggest that wild
birds in captivity which pick their own
feathers and bones may be suffering from
a deficiency of vitamines or mineral salt, or
both, in their diets. The cure in that case
wouid be to give the birds some animal fat,
fresh green vegetable, and, say, phosphorus
in some form—phosphoric acid or acid sodium
phosphate —and let the birds have plenty of
sunlight. But why cage these wild creatures?
* * *
“C. Coral”: Last year it was suggested
through the Thursday Island branch of the
Royal Geographical Society that bottle cur-
rent papers picked up here, before being
returned to the country of origin, should have
the data contained therein noted in our own
records, and this is now being done through
the Defence Department. At the same time
the branch decided to originate a bottle-paper
scheme of its own, to get an idea of cur-
rents in the Strait and the Gulf of Car pen-
taria, and papers were prepared and given to
the captains of luggers and other craft, to be
thrown over at certain definite points, it
was thought that amongst other things tnis
might serve to give some idea of the direction
in which the missing ship Douglas Mawson
was carried. The first of these Thursday
Island bottle-papers has just recently been
returned. Thrown over at Cape Keerweer,
in the Gulf it travelled to Timor Laut, taking
three months to do the trip. It was picked
up by a Dutch missionary.
* * * *
“Felix F.”: There is an elevated
tank-stand outside the window of the room
where we have our radio-set. As soon
as the wireless is turned on a green
frog makes his way along the tank-stand till
he is as close to the window as he can get,
and then he settles down to enjoy a musical
evening. lie is still there when the lights
are turned out. It may be the same or
another one that hops into the dining-room
when the piano is being played and settles
himself on the bottom rung of a chair.
* * * *
“Pfella”: How long can an eaglehawk
hover? Fishing from rocks at Flinders Bay
(W.A.) I watched one remain in practically
the same position for 20 minutes, when it
was relieved by its mate, whose vigil lasted
about seven minutes. The watch came to a
sudden termination when the bird swooped
with lightning speed, rising with a bunny
which she carried off to the hills, closely fol-
lowed by her spouse.
* * * *
“Llcr”: Cats don’t last long in printing
offices. The feet and coat gather the lead
dust, and as Puss licks herself into respec-
tability she becomes leaded. Tf you notice
a cat in a printing-house crawling around
in a listless manner you can guarantee it
is due for the feline heaven.
* * * *
“Pick": Notwithstanding the toughness
and astringency of the gum-leaf, trees have
been entirely stripped by the tiniest of bush
ravagers, a species of aphis known as lerps.
These cluster on the foliage in myriads,
devouring the sappy parts of the leaves and
leaving only the fibrous framework. Having
performed their mission in life, they encase
themselves in cocoons from which later on
emerge lace-winged flies whose mission is
to lay eggs for the next brood of destroyers.
Whole forests would be ruined by the " tiny
lerps, but when, at sunset, clouds of the
flies hover like a halo round the crown of a
chosen tree, bee-birds, flycatchers and -wag-
tails attack them and devour them in
myriads, thus effectually preventing the pest
from exterminating the eucalypts.
THE DROUGHT WILL BREAK
TO-NIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the milkers make for the highlands,
when the sky has an underlay,
The drought will soon be a wash-out, the
green grass wave it away.
When the quiet, shrewd old milkers turn
off from the pastures dear
And head for the scrubby hill spurs, it’s
wind and rain they fear;
For the old cows know that the flatlands are
bleak in the driving rain,
While snug in the scrubs on the highlands
they can chew things over again.
The young cows rush from the milkyards,
and make for the grazing ground,
Though a grey veil patches the cloud gaps—
but the old cows hang around;
They know that the slopes are barren, that
the spurs are rough and bare,
But they know when the rain is driving
there’s warmth and shelter there.
So the old cows start for the highlands,
while a gusty wind sweeps low,
And ere night there’ll be young cows going
the way that the old cows go.
Far up where the dead trees totter and creak
on the hillside thinned,
And the rung tree’s torn shrouds tatter like
bunting ripped in the wind,
There are spots that the old cows make for
when a calf they seek to hide,
And they drop down now where the young
scrub grows up on the windward side.
While the short winds die in the dust whirls
that rise from the flats in flight,
Now the milkers are up in the scrublands
the drought will break to-night.
QUEENSLAND.
L. A. SICSWORTH.


1
L
Vlealth
a
it with
9
9?
,
a
L
/


PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
One of the popular specials
from the Tobacco Department:
PEAPES’ “CORELLA”
CIGARETTES.
Finest Virginian, plain or with
cork tips.
20’s. 50's. 100’s. 1000’s.
1/6 3/9 7/6 70/-
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND AND FINANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
SYDNEY Also at WAGGA & HENTY, LONDON', MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE.
Auction Sales f WOOL, FAT STOCK, GRAIN, SHEEPSKINS,
Throughout the Year ( HIDES, TALLOW, FURRED SKINS, etc.
Cash Advances on Pastoral Properties and Stock. Wool, Grain and Produce.
Offices: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney. JAMES KTDD, General Manager for Australia.
W&W26.
AUSTRALIAN
BHB
X 2
London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRANI
d
BRAND
Containing about 99.9f>% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Stockmen!
+* y\\
/^UuA'tyomJcUs
!f^oAcoiJ>tCcviSan
Homebush Yards, or Enoggera Yards,
Sydney, Brisbane.
Auctions in both markets conducted by stock depart-
ment managers. Cattle, sheep, lambs, pigs and calves
all realise top values at the firm’s sales.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
STOCK SALESMEN, LT D
Winchcombe House, and 99-101 Eagle Street,
Bridge Street, Sydney, Brisbane.
THE MAM
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CBPARK & CASNEREAGH S[?] SYDNEY
PRIZES FOR FARM HINTS.
Thousands of men fail on the land be-
cause they don’t know how to succeed;
many thousands more succeed less than
they should because they lack proper
guidance.
The Bulletin” wants to encourage
farmers and scientists who know to help
those who don’t know.
With that object it offers two prizes of
£2O and £lO for the most useful contri-
butions to the “Land” pages during the
six months ending June 30 next.
AIJ contributions submitted, whether
published or not, will be considered in
awarding points, and the prizes will go
to the winners of most points.
Points will be awarded for interest and
practical usefulness.
The prizes are additional to the usual
payment for published contributions.
4
SUMMER FALLOWING.
“Yeoman”: Summer fallowing is an ad-
vance on the principle of winter fallowing.
It involves an initial working, between Feb-
ruary and the end of April, of the land to
be fallowed. So long as the operation is
completed prior to the early winter rains
setting in, it doesn’t much matter when it
is done. The object is to open up the soil
for the purpose of enabling the early seasonal
rains to penetrate instead of running off
the surface. An old scarifier or a disc cul-
tivator will generally be sufficient to break
down the surface.
The advantages of the summer fallow in-
clude the conservation of more moisture and
the more even distribution of the cultural
work of the farm throughout the year. It
promotes the earlier and more general ger-
mination of rubbish, which can be destroyed
by the second cultivation; this should be
given immediately after seeding is complete.
It will be found that the summer fallow is
in nice mellow condition for working, and
that the desired firm, compact seed bed and
the fine, loose surface mulch can be attained
more readily than with the winter fallow.
After those conditions have been attained,
subsequent workings—after every rain and
after a long, dry spell—are directed towards
the maintenance of a fine, dry surface tilth,
which acts as a blanket in sealing down the
moisture below. Frequently the heavy mould-
board plough is dispensed with altogether
in summer fallowing.
Sandy and light loamy soils do not lend
themselves to the summer fallow, as they
are already sufficiently loose to absorb the
first rains. But on all other soils, as every
additional inch of rain stored in the soil is
capable of producing an extra 3J bushels
of wheat, the value of the summer fallow
is obvious, as it can assure the conservation
of at least an extra inch of rain in the soil,
provided subsequent cultivations are suffi-
cient to keep it there.
CARE OF THE SEED DRILL.
“The Orphan”: The drill or combine can’t
sow manure evenly if the points of the stars
are not properly cleaned of old super. Put-
ting the stars in the fire for a few minutes
makes the job of cleaning a quick and easy
one, as the super, chips off readily in big
flak''", and does not easily re-accumulate.
Once the machine is set going it should be
kept dry. Nothing is more annoying in a
busy season than to roll up with your team
or tractor after a night’s rain and find the
super, box full of a wet cloggy mass. There
isn’t such a thing as a machine with a rain-
proof top. Cover it with a piece of oilcloth
fastened with a couple of tug chains. This
takes barely a minute after the team is un-
hitched. Oiice I lost a mare and foal through
leaving my grain box insecurely fastened, so
I can claim to have paid for my experience.
ERADICATING BLACK OATS.
“Reminder” : Despite the many precautions
taken against the pest, black oats still
annually depreciate the wheat-yield; and
were it not for the fallow system would
probably over-run most wheat fields. It can
only be eradicated by systematic discourage-
ment over-many years.
All wheat stubble should be burnt over
before ploughing, to destroy the newly-fallen
oat-seed. One year’s seed, turned into the
soil, may take years to extricate. It has the
power to remain dormant in the soil for
years.
An elementary precaution is to sow only
clean seed, and use a grader. Stock should
not be fed with hay or chaff containing black
oat seed, as the seeds are indigestible and
will set up growth when evacuated.
If a crop becomes badly infested it should
not be allowed to mature, but converted into
silage or cut for hay. The pest in the green
stage is a good fodder plant, and is relished
by sheep. Hence, the turning in of sheep,
combined with periodical cultivation, has
proved the most economical and effective
method of eradication. If the newly-ploughed
fallow be harrowed and rolled, the black
oats can be made to germinate, and they can
then be fed off.
FAT LAMBS FOR EXPORT.
“A.J.8.”: Isn’t it time breeders of lambs
for export paid some attention to the re-
quirements of the London meat market?
The joint required by the consumer in Great
Britain is the one with the maximum of
meat and the minimum of fat and bone.
Maoriland breeders realise this, and have
standardised the most suitable types. Years
ago I saw 4000 lambs in a Maoriland freez-
ing factory so true to type that one could
almost put a straight edge along the tails
and necks. I don’t think you would find
400 in an Australian factory.
Australians are making too much use of
the Lincoln and Border Leicester strains.
The Lincoln is slow in maturing, and at the
age when other breeds are marketable he
lacks the shape that is so essential in a frozen
carcase. The hind legs are long and show
black when frozen; the loin is narrow; the
forequarter shallow; the neck is long, and
when drawn up the shoulders show dark.
The Border Leicester has the same defects
but in a lesser degree. It is a satisfactory
carcase up to six months, but after that
grows heavy and tallowy with an undue
percentage of fat.
The ideal sires are the Southdown and
Shropshire in that order of preference. The
resultant progeny grow quickly and shapely,
with a fine meat fibre, and do not become
coarse or unduly heavy, even up to 12
months. The legs are short and full-muscled,
the loins broad and straight, the forequarters
deep and the neck small —that is, when the
rams are mated with anything but the pure
merino.
IMPROVING A SCRUB-LAND
PASTURE.
“Bad Australian”: A good many settlers
on attempting to establish artificial pas-
tures on southern coastal scrub-lands found
that although the grass started well it rarely
lasted over the first summer. The experience
of a friend of mine may afford a valuable
hint to others similarly situated. When he
failed in his first attempt to put his land
under grass lie faced the position as philoso-
phically as circumstances warranted and con-
tented himself with grazing his stock on
such native grasses as appeared after he
had raised a few crops of oats and potatoes.
The land had been out of cultivation for
several years when he noticed that it had
lost much of its excessive friability and pre-
sented a much firmer surface, and that small
but vigorous patches of English rye-grass,
clover and ribbed grass, germinated apparently
from seed introduced by stock, began to show
among the native grasses. Acting on the
idea suggested by this he ran a heavy disc
plough over about an acre of the land and
sowed it with a mixture of English rye-
grass, cocksfoot and clover. The entire suc-
cess of the experiment encouraged him to
continued the good work, and his farm now
carries as fine a sole of those grasses as
any stock-owner could desire, and the carry-
ing capacity of the land has been just
about doubled.
DEFREEZING.
“R.R.”: A practicable defreezing process
for frozen, meat isn’t as far in the future as
“Cooper’s Creek” (B. 6/3/’29) seems to
think. I have just returned from London
after erecting a defreezing plant that has
been in constant use since last November,
operating on Australian, M.L. and Argentine
beef. The plant is fully booked up until
the end of June, when it will be able to handle
1000 hinds a week. When equipment is com-
plete its capacity will be 10,000 hinds a
week or the equivalent in mutton.
The process raises the value of the meat
considerably. Australian beef that sold frozen
at 3s. 2d. to 3s. 3d. per stone sold imme-
diately after being defrozen at 3s. Bd. to
3s. lOd. per stone. The cost of defreezing
is under 2d. a stone. .
The process takes 30 hours and involves
no loss of weight, and the defrozen meat cuts
equal to fresh-killed beef. Quite a lot of
the beef treated had neen in store six months.
Argentine hard-frozen meat treated by this
process was sold alongside Argentine chilled
that had just arrived and went over the
scales with the latter.
Chilled beef must be marketed immediately
on arrival, whereas frozen can be stored and
defrosted and placed on the market to suit
requirements, thus avoiding gluts.
THE AMERICAN BEEF MARKET.
“Bullamacow”: The annual reports of the
American meat cos., which practically speak
with one voice, have reached Australia, and
offer unmistakable evidence of a beef short-
age in the United States. Population and
consumption are increasing, but cattle re-
ceipts at the works for 1928 were G p.c. less
than in 1927 and 12 p.c. below those of the
previous year. It is becoming obvious that
America will have to import beef in increas-
ingly larger quantities each year, especially
since the areas available for grazing cattle
arc growing more circumscribed as settle-
ment spreads. The other day, J. B. Cramsie,
of the N.S.W. Meat Industry Board, in
commenting on the situation, asserted that
the duty bogey, of which some politicians
have recently made so much, is no handicap
to Australian meat as it stands at present,
while the prospect of it being increased, in
view of the admitted shortage, is a remote
one. Best Australian export grade beef can
be sold in America at 9d. a pound, and that
is very far from prohibitive in a country
where ordinary cuts run over the quarter-
dollar. In the Northern Territory there is
more unstocked country than can be found
anywhere in the world, and this, together
with the great N.Q. areas, could supply
almost any demand. Security of tenure and
transport facilities are all that are needed
to attract the necessary capital for develop-
ment.
PHOSPHATES AND STOCK DIET.
“Wrash”: Peg-leg, brittle bone and coast
disease in cattle are due to a lack of phos-
phates in the soil. Indications of such defi-
ciency are when cattle acquire the habits of
bone-chewing and munching rags or bagging.
Lack of phosphates, too, militates against
the growth of animals, the preservation of
their teeth, and fertility in breeding.
The top-dressing of pastures with super-
phosphates, recommended by recent writers,
can only be carried out on a limited scale
The grazing areas of Australia generally are
too vast to render the practice economically
possible. The difficulty may, however, be
overcome by supplying phosphates to the
stock in the form of licks, and there are
various proprietary licks on the market that
&ro excellent.
The lick supplied should be palatable and
with it should be incorporated such mineral
foods as are found lacking in the pastures.
A chemical analysis of grasses and herbage
will accurately determine such mineral de-
ficiencies.
TARES WITH THE FODDER CROP.
“Wrecksfty” : When barley, oats, millet or
similar crops are grown for green feed, the
feeding value of an acre can be increased
by from four to eight tons by sowing tares
or vetches —the terms are used indiscrimi-
nately by seedsmen —with the crop. The
tare is one of the best auxiliary crops, and
all kinds of stock will eat it greedily. It
is particularly suitable for dairy cows, _as
it increases the milk yield, the reason being
that the tares, plus a cereal, form a balanced
ration. It is also one of the best crops
for green manuring, and makes excellent
silage and hay if cut when in flower.
Any well-cultivated soil in any district
will suit tares, but they will do best in
association with another crop that will sup-
port the numerous slender stems. Autumn
is the best time for sowing, allowing 301 b.
of tare seed to the acre, if associated with
other seed. If sown alone and broadcast,
allow a bushel to the acre. If sown in drills
with the maize hopper and sorghum plate,
or with wheat drills, use 201 b. to the acre.
Black and golden are the usual varieties
in use, but the hairy vetch, though a little
later, is a more vigorous grower and very
drought-resistant. Tares seed very freely,
but the seed is hard to harvest, and it is
desirable to feed the crop off before it seeds,
as self-sown plants, especially of the hairy
vetch, may become a nuisance later. The
kidney vetch is a very hardy perennial which
will thrive in the coldest districts and on
poor soils, and once it is established its
growth is seldom checked by the driest spell.
DRYING OFF COWS.
“H.D.8.”: Unless attention is paid to the
proper and timely drying off of milking stock,
troubles at parturition are apt to arise. The
strain on the system of the cow at calving
is great, and an animal that has been milked
steadily without diminution in yield to-
wards the end of the lactation period needs
a complete rest to prepare for calving. Dur-
ing this dry period the animal cannot put
on too much condition—it acts as a reserve
to draw on for the first 24 or 36 hours after
calving.
Some cows have a tendency to milk
right through the lactation period until the
time of parturition, with the result that the
animal is not in a proper state to give birth
to a healthy calf, and such troubles as milk
fever and mammitis may arise. This applies
particularly to heavy milkers. To guard
against these dangers and give the cow a
good start in its coming lactation period,
drying should commence six weeks before
calving, and if a heavy producer the cow
should be given a dose of Epsom salts (lib.)
a week, and also two days before calving, as
well as laxative and cooling foods. Valuable
stock should be given, in addition, a powder
of ammonium carbonate 2dr., nux vomica
14dr., in cold milk twice daily, and always
a drench of salts and ginger after calving.
Don’t use drastic purgatives, which may
cause abortion.
A system of drying used a great deal in
America is by sealing the teats with paraf-
fin. The cow is milked, carefully stripped,
and the teats sealed with paraffin and
allowed to remain for one week. During this
time the udder may become swollen and con-
gested, but unless the cow is obviously un-
comfortable nothing should be done. After
one week the seal is broken, the cow is care-
fully stripped again, and the teat is re-
sealed and allowed to remain until properly
dl’ied. It will be noticed that the udder after
the second scaling will swell slightly, only
to become normal again in a few days.
CLEARING TIMBER.
“Bad Australian”: In clearing land tim-
bered with iron-bark or the various kinds
of box which have been ring-barked for a
few years the trees can generally be burned
out and off without much trouble, but in
dealing with green timber it is necessary
to dig a trench about 12in. or 15in. deep
and 2ft. wide around the butt, of the tree,
and chip the bark and sapwood off the root-
spurs and trunk to a few inches above
ground-level. The trench should then be
closely packed with good solid junks of dead-
wood and a lire started. When the fire has
taken a good hold it should be well covered
with the soil taken out of the excavation so
as to exclude the air as much as possible.
If this is properly done the tree and a good
part of the main roots will be burned out
in a few days. Any surface roots that re-
main must be run in the ordinary way.
When dealing with messmate, peppermint,
mountain gum, woolly butt and similar re-
fractory burning timbers, when the tree falls
it must be cut into lengths of 10ft. to 15ft.,
according to diameter. Three of the butt logs
should then be rolled together and chocked
to prevent rolling apart, and a pair of
stout spars about 10ft. or 12ft. long should
be laid against one of the outside logs at
a convenient distance apart to act as skids,
with the lower ends sunk in the ground to
prevent slipping. Then take a stout rope of
convenient length fitted with “dogs” at each
end and, having driven the dogs into the top
of the off-side log, bring the bight of the rope
back, spread it on the ground and roll
the next log on to it in such a position that
each end overlaps the rope about a couple of
feet. H'ook a drag-chain to the centre of the
bight and pass it over the log to the opposite
side of the pile. Then hitch a strong, steady
horse to the drag-chain and you will be sur-
prised at the ease with which he yanks that
log into position. When the second row of
logs is in place, top up with limbs and
branches and light the fire, which must be
stoked at intervals of five or six hours, and
the logs kept together until burned down.
These directions apply to a job that can
be carried out by one man, but if a team
of bullocks or a tractor and three or four
men are available a fire may be started in
a suitable depression in the ground or a pit
sunk for the purpose, and the logs hauled
entire and rolled into it. No further atten-
tion is required, as the logs keep rolling
together as they burn. The ashes furnish a
quantity of useful fertiliser.
SCRUB-BURNING.
“Bogaduck”: Scrub-burning on the vast
areas of the Vic. Mallee and the low scrub
of mixed gums, pines, tea-tree and banksia
which clothes parts of S.A. and W.A. is a
specialised business, and the rules of the
north-eastern parts of the continent don’t
apply.
In the Mallee, scrub is rolled when the
harvesting is finished. The best roller for
the job is made, out of an old steam-boiler.
After rolling, the spring-backs are cut with
a slasher, and the stuff is left toi dry out —a
month is ample if the weather is hot. The
fallen brush on the south side is cleared back
for at least half a chain for a break, and
on the east and western sides for a width
of 12 feet. The best day for burning is a
day in late March with a hot north wind.
Between 2 and 3 p.m. the rolling is lit. start-
ing along the southern side from the s.e.


ta
f.
Light . . Soft . . Elastic
And remarkably hard-wearing, with
all its comfort. This Abbey Riding
Boot is soled with the toughest obtain-
able leather. The lining is soft
leather restful to the feet with no
raised seams to cause chafing. Elas-
tic insets at sides preserve flexibility
and close fit. The upper is shaped to
curve naturally over the instep arch.
Order by Post
Each size is available in three fittings
narrow, medium and wide. • That
guarantees made-to-measure comfort.
Specify width as well as length, and
ask, also, for a supply of the correct
Abbey Dark Tan Polish (6d. per tin).
TAN WILLOW CALF, 42/-
BLACK BOX CALF, 37/6
Enlarged catalogue of men's, women's
and children's footwear posted on
request.
ABBEY
Established over 81 years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
FPLiis SYDNEY
OF
THERE
ARE
MANY
GRADES
CRAB
BUT
CRAB
CAPTAIN
SPECIALLY
SELECTED
ALL
TAKES
COMMAND
OVER
ASK YOU* GHOCE* roll YAEE KECIPC-BOOK
Post Your Order
ď
THE PRINCE
POLEY
Complete.
£l4/14/-
Send to-day for
my nook of Ex-
periences, Post
free.
for the
WIENEKE
PRINCE POLEY
SADDLE.
The World's Best.
This saddle has special
high grip kneepads,
but the stirrup barn
are free, allowing the
leathers to come away
easily.
Perfect Shape for
Comfort.
No other saddle will satisfy
you if you are a dinkuni
rider.
JOHN WIENEKE,
c/o JOHN BRUSH,
371 Ucorge St., Sydney,
and at
434 Queen St., Brisbane.
,
The Dainty Healing Touch
of Cuticura Ointment
Exquisitely dainty, pure and effec-
tive, Cuticura Ointment does more
than heal. It cleanses the pores of
impurities and restores them to their
normal activity so necessary in pre-
venting pimples, blackheads and
many forms of irritating and unsightly
blemishes. Used either before or after
a thorough cleansing with Cuticura
Soap and warm water, Cuticura Oint
ment quickly demonstrates its Sana
tive, cleansing and healing powers.
Soap ls„ Ointment Is. and 2s.
Talcum Is. 3d. Sample each free.
Address ß. Towns & Co.,Sydney, N.S.W.
BIRKIYRE'S CLOTH
Jlegd. Trade-mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
GOUROGK
KOl’liWOllk
liX I'll 111 CO.
LTD.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED
AUTHORISED CAPITAL •• •• £250,000
ALL CLASSES OF INSURANCE EFFECTED.
Probate Disability, Extended Insurance, Non-Forfeiture,
Hospital, Medical and Nurse’s Fees Combined.
Make the event which causes the tax create the cash to pay the '
HEAD OFFICE: Hunter House, 26 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
A. MeLEAN, Managing Director. R - V - BOOTH, Secretary. .
INQUIRIES INVITED.
ASSURED POSITIONS! BETTER MONEY!
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession in life. A profession in
which competition is limited and which offers wonderful opportunities if you have any ability
and are persevering. Our tuition gives opportunities to students not to be found elsewhere.
Write for our booklet, telling of positions, salaries and fees, to-day. Start your new career NOW.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BE WISE t
FERTILISE!
with a
MAY'S FERTILISER SPREADER
ILlrt*
ret? t
nat
MANUFACTURED BY
D. & W. CHANDLER. LTD.
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY, VICTORIA.
INTER-STATE AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
DALGETY & CO.,
Argyle Street, Miller’s Point, Sydney.
GUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
Parramatta Road, Camperdown.
QUEENSLAND:
CLARK & FAUSET,
Eagle Street, Brisbane,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
SCRUTTON’S MACHINERY, LTD.,
North Terrace, Adelaide.
AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO.,
North Terrace, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
EASTWOOD’S HARDWARE STORES,
Murray Street, Perth.
corner. This is allowed to burn back to
widen the break, aiid then the rolling is lit
along the western side up to and across the
northern end. With the wind behind it, the
fire roars down until stopped by tne break
and in an hour’s time usually only a few
scattered smouldering sticks are left. If
rolled mallee is left over the winter all the
leaves fall off and burning off Decomes a
heart-breaking job.
For heavier scrub, the S.A. method is to
pull the big trees with a scrub winch. Any
of the fallln stuff which can be usea for
posts or firewood is cut and removed and the
tops are heaped about the stumps, and left
to dry. A year later the small brush is cut
down, heaped about the stumps, and fired
late in the autumn, when danger of starting
a bush-fire has passed. Usually the stumps
burn right out, and the land is ready for
the plough. This method of clearing has
turned thousands of acres of useless scrub
in the south-east of S.A. into valuable stands
of clover.
CONCRETE FENCING POSTS.
“R.X.8.” : Concrete posts have been called
on in my district to solve the fencing pro-
blem, as the timber shortage plus labor costs
and other factors have brought the price nf
6ft. posts, dropped on the line, up to 2s. 6d.
apiece, and they are not much good at that.
We make good concrete posts at Is. 3d.
apiece.
Moulds are made of dressed pine having
four sides each 6ft. in length, 8 inches square
at one end and tapering to 6in. at the other,
or top, end. The boards are hinged together
to open out flat or to close as a box, which is
kept closed by three hooks placed at intervals.
Holes are made with a iin. bit to provide
for passing through the wires. The propor-
tions of the mixture are cement 1, sand 2i
and sharp gravel 5. Small coke can replace
gravel if this is not handy.
The mould is stood on end, and after a
bucket of water has been poured through to
wet the sides, the mixture is poured in
slowly and tamped frequently. Bolts rubbed
with axle grease are then tapped through
the wire holes, and the job left until the next
day. The moulds can be opened in about
three hours if required. It is desirable to
have a number of moulds.
The fence is erected with two concrete
posts and six corkscrew metal droppers to
the chain, and the result is a good-looking
fence which is stock-, fire- and white-ant
proof, and practically everlasting.
SHOEING HORSES.
“E.H.F.” : In conditions which require r.he
horse to be shod, the animal should be shod
and the feet trimmed every four or six weeks.
In the case of young horses even more fre-
quent shoeing is advisable. If the horse is
off the road for a month or two, the shoes
should be removed and the animal allowed
to run with bare feet.
If a horse continuously wears shoes the
feet will have a tendency to become hard
and brittle. To counteract that apply a
dressing of neatsfoot oil to the hoof twice
a week.
Many so-called farriers nowadays fit the
foot to the shoe instead of making thei shoe
to fit the hoof. Generally the shoe is fitted
too small for the foot, and nailed on. Then
clippers and rasp are requisitioned to com-
plete the job. Often the wall of the foot is
cut down almost to the quick. The correct
procedure is to just round the foot and make
the shoe to fit, removing only rough edges
wdth the rasp. The job may not look so
neat, but it is better for the horse.
Give the frog a chance to touch the ground.
There is no need to worry about bruising
the frog. The frog is meant to take con-
cussion and to act as a shock-absorber.
Careless over-trimming of the sole and frog
must be avoided, while “easing the heels”
to avoid corns should be a punishable offence.
It’s far more likely to cause corns than to
prevent them.
HORSES FOR EXPORT.
“L.H.” : After a long spell in the doldrums,
the Indian market for light horses is looking
up, and buyers are operating in Queensland
and N.S.W. Within the last few years,
unfortunately, systematic breeding of the
remount type has been neglected, with the
result that the number of rejects has been
exceptionally high. Considering that there
are so many stations still left in Australia
which have to employ large numbers of
saddle horses, one would think it worth while
to breed a good quality rather than runts.
The cost of a decent stallion and the assembly
of a mob of suitable mares might cost more
to start with than the present liappy-go-.
lucky methods, but improved prices for the
shippers should remedy that.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Sendee Department .)
(1) What would be a good investment
for £lOO, which I have saved in three years,
working on dairy and general farms and
sheep stations? (2) Would it be practicable
to buy a small farm and run it? (3) What
is the general price of farmland on the
Darling Downs? (4) Would the Downs be
a good place to start farming? (5) Could
you recommend share-farming in any dis-
trict in Q'land? —9243.
(1) Put it at fixed deposit for, say, three
or more years, and go on saving. (2) No.
(3) From £2 10s. per acre Upwards, accord-
ing to quality and position. (4) Yes, with
a sufficiency of capital. The Downs country
is mostly held under freehold tenure. (5)
Unless under very favorable conditions,
share-farming is uncertain, and is more
suited to those who have a family willing
and able to assist them.
(1) Is it legal for an agent in Melbourne
to deduct from the proceeds of fruit sent to
him for sale by a grower in Queensland, with-
out consent or knowledge of the grower,
money claimed from the grower by a creditor
in Queensland? (2) Could the agent be sued
for the deducted amount? (3) Has the com-
mittee of Direction of Fruit Marketing,
Quci stand. power to authorise an agent in
Melbourne to make such a deduction? —93s4.
(1) It is the duty of an agent to account
to his principal for the proceeds of the sale,
deducting only such commission and ex-
penses as are incidental to the agency and
within the scope of the authority delegated
to him. (2) If the agent exceeds his autho-
rity he lays himself open to an action-at
law. (3) Not unless the specific powers con-
ferred on the committee are such as to over-
ride the principles of Common Law.
The paddocks in this neighborhood
(Upper Gorindi, N.S.W.) are fast being cov-
ered with Blady grass. Gan you tell me a
method of combating the pest? —92ss.
The N.S.W. Agricultural Department
recommends the planting of Kikuyu grass.
Roots are obtainable from the manager,
Experiment Farm, Grafton, and should be
planted about 4ft. apart, during showery
weather for preference. Plantings may be
made at any time except during the cold
months of the year. Carpet grass might
also be used on light, sandy country. This
should be sown at 61b. seed per acre in the
spring. Literature on ICikuyu grass and the
value of pasture plants for the control of
bracken fern can be obtained from the
Department of Agriculture, Sydney.
(1) Can angora rabbits be imported into
Australia? (2) Where are they obtainable?
(3) flow much wool is obtainable from each
rabbit per year? (4) How are they shorn?
(5) How arc they enclosed? (6) Do they
burrow? (7) What is the value of the wool
per lb.? (8) What markets arc there for the
wool? —9456.
(1) No. (2) Great Britain. (3) From
12 to 16 oz. (41 With ordinary blunt pointed
scissors. (5) In hutches and wire-netting
enclosures. (61 No. (7) Up to 355. per lb.
(8) Great Britain.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Lodgie”: Quite the best thing I have
found for healing sore teats of cows is
butter. The salt does not appear to irritate,
and probably acts as a germicide, and natur-
nllv the cow assimilates her own fat quicker
than other oils.
“Billy .T.” : When kerosene peters out this
is the way to keep the out-back homestead
illuminated. Chop a splinter about 7in. long,
wrap round it a piece of rag smeared with
fat, fill an old jam-tin 4in. deep with fat
ar.d press the rag-wrapped stick into the
centre. Put a match to the rag and you have
a light that will last for several hours.
“Dowdale”: Roseworthy Agricultural Col-
lege (S.A.) has discovered that the best way
to rid a barn of weevils is to dust seed
wheat with carbonate of copper within its
walls. The comparatively small amount of
carbonate that escapes and drifts about in
the air settles in all cracks and corners,
and then settles the weevils.
“Cuchulain” : Stockholm tar is a first-class
blister remedy for horses. It takes the hair
off and cleanses the edge of the cut in the
most satisfactory manner, but care needs to
be exercised, as the tar eats into the flesh
and more than one application (except in
severe cases) causes trouble and burns a hole
instead of cleansing the wound. The best
course is to apply the Stockholm tar and
when it has done its work put some soothing
ointment over the wound. Either kerosene
and fat or vaseline with a small mixing of
boracic acid may be used.
“Reminder”: The writer knows an or-
chardist who fed his apples to his pigs last
season rather than sell them for 4s. and less
per case at the city markets. His neighbor,
faced with the same difficulty, put an adver-
tisement in a Sydney newspaper offering to
deliver apples at 10s. per case anywhere in
N. S. Wales. The response was so great
that all his crop was disposed of and repeat
orders had to be turned away. Freight and
cartage averaged 3s. per case, leaving a
return of 7s. per case. This season he had
orders for all his crop before it was ripe
and likewise for his neighbor’s crop.
“A. 8.”; Where summer fruit trees are
infested with ants place a strip of tangle-
foot about an inch wide around the base
of the trunk. It will need renewing about
every third day. The ants are chiefly trouble-
some when there is aphis on the new growths.
“P.N.” : Black aphis, which attacks broad
beans, chrysanthemums, etc., at this time cf
the year, should be sprayed with Black Leaf
40 (weak strength). Alternatively spray
with a tablespoon of kerosene to a gallon of
warm, soapy water.
“N.M.L.”: A good dressing for lambs at
marking is 3 parts Stockholm tar, 2 parts
commercial (not chemist’s) castor oil, 1 part
kerosene. Mix well together and boil. Tar
won’t scour out of wool, so don’t splash the
mixture about unnecessarily. On the other
hand, unless the dressing is done carefully,
and spread on the wool all round the wound,
its curative and protective qualities are lost.
“C.W.”: If you are in a hurry to get
plants from the seed of cabbage, cauliflower
or any vegetable that is not very small, place
a bag on a cement floor, sprinkle the seed
over it, place another bag on top and pour a
kettle of boiling water over the lot. Do it
over-night, and by morning every fertile seed
will have germinated and can be shaken into
the seed bed. where they will be well up in a
few days. Where wire-worms are apt to eat
the germ out of bean s<eds they should always
be sprouted in this way before planting. They
will take a little longer and the bags must
not be allowed to dry off. Care is necessary
in handling the sprouted seed, as the new
white root is very brittle.
“A 1 Gebra”: Here’s a quicker way of com-
puting cubic contents of a sloping-sided dam
or ensilage pit than any yet printed on this
page—an algebraic simplification of “Oldog’s”
ingenious formula (B. 21/11/’2B) :—(1)
Multiply together top length and breadth;
multiply together bottom length and breath.
Add these two products together. (2) Add
top length to bottom length. Add top breadth
to bottom breadth and multiply these two
products together. (3) Add together the
totals obtained in (1) and (2), multiply
result by depth (or height, as the case may
be), and divide product by six.
“T.S.”: Prof. A. E. V. Richardson, of ‘lie
Waite Agricultural Research Institute, under
control of Adelaide Uni., has been telling
S.A. that Australia’s altogether most valu-
able crop is grass, since on it depend tlm
animal products that make up a good deal
more than half of our total exports. Or<m-
nised seeding of pasture land is the ndte
of the immediate future, he says, with special
attention to wallaby grass and. of course
subterranean clover. The “small annual
clovers, with drought-resisting perennial
grasses, are to save the semi-arid districts


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
By youth (19), N.S.W., used to farm
work, handy with tools, can drive car, posh
tion, anywhere. Islands preferred.—937B.
Englishman (28), single, farm worker,
would like to correspond with readers of
The Bulletin. —9371.
Young man (22) would like to correspond
with Bulletin readers, either sex, any-
where.—936s.
By youth (19), Vic., position on ship;
inexperienced.—9364.
By prospector (N.S.W.), with good show,
financial backing, £BO to £lOO, or a good
mate with like sum, on fifty-fifty basis. —
9394.
By Scot (27), position in Islands. Mining
and overseeing experience. Good hand with
natives.—939l.
By Englishwoman, semi-trained nurse,
position as companion-help in Q’land in
May.—9l69.
By Maorilander (34), previously overseer
and assist.-manager Fijian cattle estate;
good knowledge most classes of outdoor work,
accustomed figures and clerical duties, posi-
tion in Islands. —9390.
By young professional man, Sydney, pupils
for coaching, matriculation and law exams. —
9408.
By man (25), W.A., clerical position in
the Islands. —9399.
By handy man, ex-Navy, position in large
house or hotel, any State, all duties, domes-
tic, painting, repairs, etc. Refs. —9415.
Young man (24) wishes to correspond
with readers, either sex, anywhere. (To
James YV. Callow, Cattai, via Windsor,
N.S.W.)
By Englishman (20), Vic., position on
wheat farm, tractor- and car-driver, can
do repairs, milk, gardening, all farm work.
Sober, good education. Refs. —9304.
By man (21), position on N.S.YV. sheep
station. Wheat- and sheep-farming expori
ence. Ex. refs. —9297.
By radio operator (19), position any-
where.—93o9.
By patenter useful invention, partner
with small capital. Good refs.—943s.
By married man (32), ex-A.1.F., job on
Westralian wheat farm for about two years
to gain experience. Used to horses. Good
fencer, splitter, etc. —9417.
By young man, Sydney, journalist, pub-
licity and secretarial experience, position
with trade paper or bookshop and lending
library.—944B.
By black-and-white artist, Bulletin con-
tributor, commissions for commercial designs,
illustrations, bookplates, etc.— -9447.
By young man, returned soldier, seafaring
experience, knowledge marine engines, re-
sponsible permanent position aboard small
vessel trading in Islands. —9446.
By young woman, Tasmanian, position as
chauffeur, Sydney preferred.—946o.
By competent sawmiller (24), N.S.W.,
position anywhere, Islands preferred. Can
drive car. —9475.
Young woman (24), with own car, about
to travel prosperous district in Q’land,
would like agency for drapery, good selling
lines.—947l.
To get in touch with stamp collectors
in Pacific Islands, South and Central
America, Cyprus. Albania, Monaco, Persia
and Newfoundland with view to exchange.—
9432.
Words of following recitations: “Ken-
tucky Belle,” “Boko,” “Skeeta,” “Starlight’s
Last Ride” and “How Christmas Bell was
Sold” ; also book entitled “Budgeree Ballads.”
Will exchange for others or pay small sum.
'—9424.
To buy copy of book of poems by J. A.
Andrews, published by E. W. Cole (Melb.)
about 1890.—9453.
To buy old postage stamps.—9366.
To exchange for good audio transformer,
one Oldham 20-volt accumulator in good
condition. (To A. E. Ross, Glen Lee, Roma,
Q.)
Whereabouts of Colin Albinson, footballer
and jockey, late of Murrayville (Vic.)
9375.
Information Sought.
(1) What is the method of obtaining
lanoline from the waste water in which wool
has been scoured? (2) Is there any machine
for separating? (3) Cost of same? (4)
Where can I obtain a market for crude lano-
line? (5) Value-per t0n? —8922.
(1) Crude lanoline is extracted from
the waste from the scouring bowls by mech-
anical separation. The principle is similar
to that adopted for the separation of cream
from skimmed milk. (2) There are various
types of machines in use. The Sharpies No.
6 is very suitable for the purpose. (3)
Approximately £lOO. (4) Mainly exported
to America. (5) About £4O per ton.
What water weeds do you recommend for
a concrete fish-pond, 6 ft. diameter and 2 ft.
deep, in which are black fish? Where are
the weeds obtainable and at what cost?—
9084.
Vallisneria and anacharis, of which suffi-
cient can be obtained for 10s. from Eastway
Bros., 387 George-street, Sydney. They are
best planted in a layer of shell-grit which
has been well washed in fresh water to free
it from salt.
(1) Is it possible to harpoon sharks?
(2) Did a party of Sydney people set out,
many years ago, to kill sharks by this
means, and were they successful f —9313.
(1) Possible, but baited lines and nets
on the bottom are more efficient, for the
reason that most species of sharks are
normally bottom-dwelling fish. (2) Haven’t
heard of any such enterprise.
(1) How is the brown color in hop beer
produced and (2) the sparkling sharpness?
(3) Where can I obtain tamarind bark in
Sydney ? —9149.
(1) Burnt sugar is used. Place a thin
layer of table sugar in a clean, dry pan,
and scorch it over the lire, stirring it about
until it is brown and treacly, when it
should be stirred into the beer. (2) De-
pends on good water, careful making and
suitable time for ripening; only experience
decides these points. (3) At Anthony Hor-
derns’.
(1) What is the difference between a
“cadet” and an “ apprentice” training to
be an electrical engineer? (2) Does one take
a shorter time than the other to get through
the course of training? (3) What subjects
must a boy study at night and how many
nights a week? —8930.
(1) and (2) According to trade usage,
an “apprentice” is one bound for a period
of five years to learn the trade of electrical
fitter or electrical mechanic. The term
“cadet” is used by the N.S.W. Railway
Commissioners and one or two other large
public bodies who give boys a four years’
training as preparation .for a stall' position.
(3) Apply to the Superintendent, Sydney
Technical College, who will supply full par-
ticulars.
What are the advantages of a loop aerial
as compared with an outdoor aerial? What
type would you suggest for use with a three-
valve receiver?- —9384.
The loop or frame aerial is less sensitive
than an outdoor aerial. It is used chiefly
for portable receivers and for sets employing
six valves or over. It is more selective than
an outdoor aerial on account of its low
resistance and directional properties. It is
also less liable to pick up static and other
types of interference. It is not to be recom-
mended for use with a three-valve receiver.
Erect an outdoor aerial consisting of 75ft.
of 3/20 gauge aerial wire at a height of
25 or 30 feet above the ground. If space
is an object, the length may be reduced to
50ft. Keep the wire well clear of trees.
In poker is it compulsory for any player
holding a pair of jacks or better to open
a jaclc-pot ?, —9310.
According to Hoyle, no ; but your “school”
may have a rule of its own on the subject.
(1) How can I enter for the N.S.W.
matriculation exam.? (2) Would 25 be too
old? (3) How many subjects must a can-
didate pass in, and what subjects arc essen-
tial? (4) When will the exam, be held in
1930? (5) What is the o trance fee and
what qualifications are necessary? (6)
What text-books arc used? —9322.
(1) Any person may enter for the matri-
culation examination on signing an under-
taking that he intends to proceed with his
studies in one of the faculties of the Uni-
versity. There is no age limit. (3)
Candidates must pass in at least four sub-
jects, three at the Higher Standard, of
which English and a foreign language
(Latin, Greek, French, German, Italian or
Japanese) are compulsory. (41 On or about
February 19. (51 £3. (6) A syllabus is
obtainable from the Registrar, Sydney Uni.
A owns a station, managed by B. C is a
stock dealer. Without A’s authority, B sells
a mob of sheep to C, who buys them in good
faith. B clears out with the proceeds oj the
sale. Who owns the sheep? If it is no sale
and A owns them ichat steps should he take
for their recovery, and what remedy has G
against B? If it is a sale, how docs A pro-
ceed to recover the money from B? —9336.
A may not have given B specific authority
to sell this particular mob of sheep, but it
might be held that station-management usu-
ally implies power to buy and sell sheep for
the station. Consultation with a local soli-
citor who could consider all the facts is the
wisest course.
Were the jockeys of Adam, Lindsay Gor-
don’s time as skilful as those of the present
day? Could you give me an instance of an
old-time rider having equalled modern
speeds? —93l3.
Comparison is difficult. Races in those
days were ridden very slowly, the jockeys
waiting on each othei% much as cyclists
do, for the final dash. Courses were heavier,
too. The cross-country riders were probably
as good as those of to-day; many would say
they were better.
(1) Is it possible to learn a foreign
language at home without outside aid? (2)
How could I learn German? (3) Gan cor-
respondence courses in the subject be taken,
and how could I decide whether or not 1
needed such aid? —9196.
(T) You can learn to write German,
particularly if you have already learnt some
other foreign language. To speak German
personal tuitiop is essential. (2) Buy
Heath’s “German Grammar,” Cassell’s “Ger-
man Dictionary,” and Wittich’s “German
Tales.” Work through the grammar, care-
fully writing out the exercises. Concurrently
with this try to make out the sense of
some of the earlier tales in Wittich (using
grammar and dictionary for the verbs).
At the beginning work regularly every day,
but not for too long a period, and before you
proceed be sure to revise the work you did
the day before. (3) After you have written
out about a dozen of the exercises in Heath,
submit them to us for a report. It will then
be clear whether you need correspondence
lessons or are able to work satisfactorily
on your own account.
Is there a regular aeroplane passenger
service plying between Melbourne and Bya-
iicy. If so, what are the fares, maximum
luggage allowed each passenger, and times
of departures from Sydney?■ —9l7s).
There is no regular service between Mel-
bourne and Sydney, but a train-c««j-’plane
service exists. The fare is £ll 18s. Csd., in-
cluding first-class rail sleeper from Sydney
to Cootamundra. Each passenger is allowed
401 b. luggage without additional charge. A
train leaves Sydney at 10.5 p.m. Wednesdays,
arrives at Cootamundra 0.48 a.m. Thursdays;
’plane leaves Cootamundra 7.80 a.m. Thurs-
days, arrives Melbourne (via Hay) 4.55 p.m.
the same day.
(1) Where are radium-bearing ores to be
found in Australia? (2) Where could 1
obtain literature on mining for radium-bear-
ing ores in Australia? (8) Provided one had
necessary technical qualifications would £4OO
be sufficient to enable a person to search for
such ores? —9110.
(1) Deposits of radio-active ores occur in
lode form in South Australia and are be-
lieved to be richer and more extensive than
any others so far located. There is an ex-
tensive deposit at Radium Hill, Olary, about
12 miles from Cutana railway siding, and
another at Mount Painter in the Northern
Flinders Ranges. Ores from both localities
have yielded radium. (2) The S.A. Govern-
ment issues bulletins from time to time deal-
ing with radium in that State. Apply to the
Mines Department, Adelaide. The Australian
Radium Corp., 31 Queen-street, Melbourne,
may be able to help you. (3) The capital
would be inadequate in view of the fact
that the localities in which radium-bearing
ores are to be found are waterless, inaccess-
ible regions, and that a team of camels would
be required to transport supplies, gear,
and water. In a report on the Mt. Pain-
ter locality it is stated: “The extremely
rough nature of the country prevents any
small mining scheme operating successfully.'’
llow does the captain of the oil-tanker
Brunswick control the vessel and operate,
the machinery from the bridge? —9449.
For steering the vessel when manoeuvring
in and out of port a small wheel is used.
Immediately the vessel clears port a small
lever is moved and connects up the gyro-
scopic steering apparatus, which automatically
indicates on a chart the actual course of the
vessel, which never deviates more than half
a point either side from the course set. Two
other small levers standing erect each con-
trol one of the twin engines of the Diesel-
electric power plant of over 3000 h.p. These
levers are moved through a notched arc, and
the officer on the bridge controls the speed
in the same way as a tramway motor-
man operates a tram. Each notch represents
10 revolutions per minute.
At what points of the compass does the
sun rise and set on the longest day of the
year at Sydney and at what points does it
rise and set on the shortest day? —93oB.
Dongest day: Rises, 28min. 38deg. south
of east; sets, 28min. 38deg. south of west.
Shortest day: Rises, 2Smin. 3Sdeg. north
of east; sets, 28min. 38deg. north of west.
(1) Which is the best English diction-
ary (of convenient library size ) obtainable,
purely British and modern? (2) Has phren-
ology any prestige in the eyes of scientists
anil psychologists? llow do they regard it?
—5)441.
(1) There are many good dictionaries
of moderate size published in England and
Australia. A capital one is the “Concise
Oxford Dictionary.” (2) No. With amuse-
ment.
(1) Are racecourse winnings subject to
income-tax? (2) If the winnings are capi-
talised, is that capital subject to Federal and
State taxation? —9337.
(1) Only if they are derived in the course
of the business of a taxpayer. (2) Income
derived from any moneys capitalised is sub-
ject to income-tax.
(1) llow many gallons of water would
a draught-horse drink in 24 hours on dry
feed in hot weather, doing a medium amount
of work? (2) How many gallons would a
cow in full milk drink under the same food
and weather conditions? —92o2.
(1) About 16 gallons. (2) About 20
gallons.
Is there a means of treating metal frames
of shop windows so as to render polishing
unnecessary, or to render one polishing suffi-
cient to last a long time?- —9358.
A solution of white shellac in methylated
spirits, thin enough to be applied with a
small brush, is useful. There is also a special
varnish sold by most paint shops. Choose a
dustless day.
llow is wheatmeal bread made? —9352.
Take 81b. fine wheatmeal, 4oz. cream of
tartar, 2oz. soda, ilb. brown sugar and 2oz.
salt. Sift all ingredients, and make into a
flexible dough with skimmed milk or butter-
milk. Divide and bake at once in a hot oven.
How can I get rid of silver fish? —9350.
Spray kerosene through a bucket spray-
pump into all crevices, etc. Placs moth-balls
or powdered naphthaline in all likely places,
behind books, in boxes and drawers, etc.,
and they will diminish; this method is used
in large city warehouses.
(1) Are there any hairdressing saloons in
Sydney where women barbel's attend to male
customers? (2) What wage is payable to
women barbers? —9339.
(1) There is one in the Crown-street
neighborhood. (2) The wage is the same for
females as for males.
How is celluloid joined? —9l66.
A mixture composed of three parts alcohol
and four parts of ether is used. Being
very volatile it should be kept in a well-
corked bottle. The surfaces to be joined are
painted over with the mixture until they
soften. The surfaces are then pressed to-
gether and left for at least 24 hours.
Information Supplied.
8966. —To join rubber to metal, soak gum
shellac (pulverised) in 10 times its weight
of strong ammonia, which on being left for
three to four Weeks becomes a shiny mass.
This, applied to the rubber and metal,
softens the rubber, and after the volatilisa-
tion of the ammonia cements it hard and
fast. It is necessary to put a weight on
the rubber while the solution is setting.—
G. H.
Brief Answers.
'S.W.: A hard case, but in the absence of
any specific agreement for employment at a fixed
wage for a stated term you would not be likely to
succeed in any action for redress... .A.L.: The
chairman was in order in refusing to allow non-
members to vote; the fact that they intended to
join the club does not give them any privileges. (2)
Generally 12 months after establishment. As the
election of officers follows the reading of the minutes
the retiring secretary would perform the task. ...
R. : See Woman’s Mirror 18/5/’26 and 9/11/’26.
. ...Macleay: Assuming it to be an ordinary letting
and the crop put in by the tenant, the landlord is
not responsible in the event of its loss by flood or
otherwise. The crop is the tenant’s and the loss is
his. The loss of the crop does not affect the rent.
. ...A.C.G.: The Public Trustee is within his rights.
He cannot distribute portion of the estate before
the whole has been got in. (2) It is the duty of
a trustee to exercise care with regard to the preser-
vation of the assets in his possession... .F. 8.: Hr.
Norman Haire, 1127 Harley-street, London, W. 1.,
England... .T.E.T.: Aviation experts do not know
the term. Send us the paragraph in which it
appears... .W.H.W.: (1) The total strength of Aus-
tralian forces sent to the South African War, 1899-
1902, was 10,175, of whom 314 officers and 5796
other ranks went from N.S.W. (2) The Sudan
Contingent, composed of one six-gun battery (212
men) and 522 infantry, was enlisted in N.S.W. (3)
Eighteen to 45....R.G.R.: Write to the Secretary,
Air Board, Defence Department, Melbourne....
D.M.D.; It is worth only as much as a buyer might
offer. Suggest you advertise it D.G.R.: Celluloid
dissolves in acetone, sulphuric ether, oil of tur-
pentine, benzine, amyl acetate, etc., alone or in
various combinations of these agents. The propor-
tions of the amyl acetate solution are: Celluloid,
6 grams; amyl acetate, 50 grams... .R.C.D.: N.S.W.
State Pastoral Employees’ award can be obtained
from N.S.W. Government Printer, Sydney, price
6d. Federal Pastoral Employees’ award is obtainable
from Federal Government Printer, Canberra, F.C.T.,
price 2s. 6d.... .T.L.: Registraa'-General's Office,
Queen-street, Melbourne... .W.F.H.: (1) and (2)
Will answer later. (3) “The Farmers’ Handbook,”
price 11s. 2d. posted, obtainable from N.S.W. Govt.
Printer, Phillip-street, Sydney. (4) “Stocks and
Shares” and “Hints for Investors,” by Hartley
Withers. .. .E.A.W.: Any wool broker would sell the
skins on commission. Try Dalgety & Co., Ltd.,
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd., and Goldsbrough, Mort
and Co., Ltd.—all of Sydney... .Drainage: Write to
the Council Clerk, Warringah Shire, Brookvale, and
request that the Shire Engineer assist you to provide
an outlet for the storm water... .C. 8.: Information
not available locally. Write to City of London
Maternity Hospital, City-road, E.C.; Queen Char-
lotte’s Maternity Hospital, Marylebone-road, N.W.;
Plaistow Maternity Hospital, Howards-road, E.l3 —
all of London.... J.P.T.: Chances very remote.
Write to Broadcasting Co. of Australia, 120 a Russell-
street, and Associated Radio Co. of Australia, 44
Elizabeth-street —both of Melbourne .R.W.H.»
Write to the Chief Secretary’s Dept., Sydney....
Hopelessly Unemployed: A workshop apprenticeship
would be essential to qualify as a Diesel engineer.
There are three classes in marine engineering cer-
tificates, and one for land engineering. Chances of
employment as a Diesel engineer are uncertain....
L.M.P.: Candidates for the degree of Bachelor of
Veterinary Science at Sydney Uni. must have gradu-
ated in Arts or Science, completed the first year in
Arts, or matriculated. Candidates for the License of
Competency must have matriculated or passed an
equivalent exam., or obtained the Diploma of the
Hawkesbury Agricultural College with honors. The
Registrar, Sydney Uni., will supply further particulars
if asked... .E.J.D.: (1) Write to any of the follow-
ing: F. G. Pratten, 26 Jamiesom-street; A. W. Free-
man, Martin-place ; J. N. Tomlinson, 79 Pitt-street;
W. Tarleton, 107 Pitt-street—all of Sydney. (2) Do
not know of any correspondence course on the subject.
... .V.D.: We have no information later than that in
our own review of the activities (B. 6/2/’29)
S. : The safest course would be to take out a
policy with the A.M.P., National Mutual, Colonial
Mutual, City Mutual or the M.L.C J.M.C.: In the
absence of agreement to the contrary the agent is
entitled to 5 p.c. commission on the first year’s rent
0n1y.... Taxpayer: You are subject to State income-
tax on the proportion of income received for services
in New South Wales and Queensland respectively.
Your Federal return should be lodged at the Brisbane
office... .R.S.C.: “Coonardoo” is to be published in
book form by Jonathan Cape. “A House Is Built”
will be published by George G. Harrap and Co.,
Ltd. Several other highly-commended novels that
were entered in The Bulletin Novel Competition
are under offer to publishers... .Kreg: If the river
is not a tidal one the owner of property through
which it runs is the owner of the river’s soil to the
extent of his boundaries, but he may not obstruct
the use of the river as a waterway... .R.G.P.: A.
0. Barber, 4 Bridge-street; or H. P. Stacey, 6
Dalley-street—both of Sydney, may be able to help
you... .A.L.: Preferable to go to a good shorthand
school, but you can teach yourself. Buy Pitman’s
“Shorthand Teacher” (Is.) and “Key” (Is.) ;
and, later, Pitman’s “Shorthand Instructor” (ss.
6d.) and “Key” (2s. 6d.). The only Government
institution in N.S.W. teaching the subject by post
is the Sydney Technical College (Correspondence
Courses Section); fees, £1 per annum... .H.G.8.:
(1) Provided you passed in all the subjects at the
standards mentioned, you would be eligible for
admission lo the Faculty of Arts. (2) The Maths,
exam, consists of two papers comprising question*
in algebra, geometry and simple trigonometry. The
questions in trigonometry are numerical in character
and involve the use of the sine, cosine and tangent
of acute angles K.M.G.K.: (1) P. B. Sheathe:
Co., Ltd., 117 York-street, Sydney, distribute the
Stetson hat; Gollin and Co. Pty., Ltd. (same
address) distribute the Woodrow hat. (2) Prices
vary. (3) See page 2325, Sands’ N.S.W. Directory
(1929)... .C.V.H.: Write to the Department of
Agriculture, Pretoria, S. Africa.... S.W.: Write to
Mr. Armitage, James-street, Mosman, N.S.W., or Mr.
Wood, 125 Francis-street, Lideombe, N.S.W F.L.:
You, personally, are not entitled to do so, but you
may make application to the Court... .F.W.: The
life of a patent (unless renewed) is 16 years. At
the end of that period it becomes public property
and anyone is free to make use of and vend the
article... .F.F.V.: “The Aircraft Engine Instructor,”
by A. L. Dyke (255.) ; “Modern Aircraft,” by Victor
W. Page (255.) ; “The Aeroplane Speaks,” by Horatio
Barber (17s. 6d.) ; “Aerobatics,” by Horatio Barber
(17s. 6d.) ; “The Art of Flying,” by Capt. N.
Macmillan (ss.) —all obtainable from Angus and
Robertson, Sydney... .E.J.8.: A special day course
for motor-car maintenance is conducted at the Sydney
Technical College, and may be attended on Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday afternoons each
week. The course is specially designed to suit car-
owners, and embraces experience in the running-
repairs and maintenance of motor vehicles, including
vulcanising of tyres, etc A.J.N.: Obtain “Hoyle’s
Games Modernised” (45.) from Swain and Co., Ltd.,
123 Pitt-street, Sydney (Many others mailed.)


m
Sole Distributors for N.S.W.:
Dangar, Gedye & Co., Ltd.
The Shearing Machine Pioneers,
10-14 Young Street, Sydney.
Agents for Queensland:
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.,
99 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Agents for IV.A.:
Malloch Bros.,
54 William Street, Perth.
Pa ton.
STILL
ANOTHER
MILESTONE
passed on the road to perfect shearing.
The latest Lister Handpiece marks yet another milestone on the
road to perfect shearing. It is very definitely ahead of any existing
handpiece—in its mechanical capabilities of clean, fast cutting,
with greater freedom from wear than ever before.
It has been specially designed, particularly in regard to the tension
nut and bush, to overcome two great bugbears which in the past
have affected all kinds of shears—the rapid wear due to the entrv
of sand, and the loss of level due to inequalities in the lid and
other parts. This new handpiece is sandproof, and level tension
can be obtained in a few seconds by the shearer himself.
Other improvements have been made—all of them helping to
produce the most nearly perfect handpiece yet constructed. Study
closely the illustrations and descriptions on this page—and you’ll
know why Listers should be in your shed.
Three Outstanding Improvements.
Sandproof. riie k° oded “Gritprufe*’ nut (A) prevents the sand from
penetrating to its own threads and those of the bush (B).
Wear on the threads is therefore considerably reduced.
No Wear on Threads. The trcmendous oscillating thrust from
* the cutter is now taken by the smooth,
snug-fitting barrel (C), instead of by a few exposed threads as formerly,
ims means that the threads keep in good condition very much longer; there is
far less trouble from loss of level and frequent replacement of parts.
Quickly Levelled. There being no wear, the tension rarely gets out
°f level. When it does the shearer himself can
level it m a few seconds by slackening the locking ring (D), tapping the bush to
right or left, and re-tightening the locking ring.
THE 1929
a
tsrei 2
22ITISH Buvv-T
HANDPIECE


■X
CM
Qtie new Buick
is the new Style
X
:
< A
\:\)
o
i
1*
kx ifc,.
i* /'
■-
"W'f —-^i —
■ '•: >v
mm&#
\/ i
r
JUST as a new frock —a new i
mode —may make a comple
of the feminine world —so this
new car by Buick has become a
vogue.
The beauty of its new bodies—
of its new adjustable front sea
width rear seats —and the thrilln
ance of its new valve-in-head
have combined to win the hearts
everywhere.
Setting an entirely new —a rev:
style, introducing what will un
Melbourne: Lane’s Motors Pty.,
Brisbane: Metropolitan Motors,
SILVER j
B
GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY., LTf|


\ t?
-’• ‘ •
.....
l» y 'T7
wF ‘
i *
-a new
Dnquest
inderful
d-wide
:omfort
id full-
erform-
ne —all
lotorists
[tionably
be the trend of smart body design during
the next several years, the new bodies of
the Silver Anniversary Buick are enjoying
universal acclaim as the most original and
distinctive, as well as the most beautiful,
bodies ever designed.
They set a new vogue of symmetry, born
of gently rounded contours, instead of plain,
straight lines —a vogue of distinction derived
from sparking colors —a vogue of tasteful
luxury.
Here’s a new style, a new mode, in motor-
cars —Buick!
Prove it Your-
self like this
Come in and take the wheel
of this great new car. Drive
it yourself. We want every
motorist to make this test.
Prices from £430
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR
Ropolitan distributors.
kibition Street. Sydney: Boyd Edkins, Ltd., Phillip Street,
[ej-iide Street. Adelaide: Vivian Lewis, Ltd., Franklin Street.
•• D. Toe Motors, Ltd., Milligan Street.
NNIVERSARY
JICK
Melbourne—Sydney—Brisbane—Adelaide—Perth


The centre of Queens/onc/s
' ctistirguistiect Sociot Life.
mote I
RDTQR
BRISBANE
d
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 6780—10 Lines,
ď
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
Monday io Fridajr
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/-
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 12/6; or
1 la carte, minimum, 12/6
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 6.30, 5/-
The Ambassadors New Delightful
Dance Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
SMOKE-OH!
Coal-mine proprietors realise how hard
it is to keep a good man down.
It is not the joy-riding car that the flapper
is afraid of exactly; it’s the clutch.
* *
It is only natural for joy-riders to jeer
at people who travel along the roads in a
sulky fashion.
¥ *
E. E. Bean says that the Australian
selectors never instructed Ryder how to
manage his team. The barrackers always
forestalled them.
* *
A London daily states that a clock which
had been missing for over a century was
found lying in a cupboard. The second prize
goes to a gas meter which has been lying
in our kitchen for 25 years.
* *
“At a meeting of shareholders in the
Civil Service Stores, Sydney, a man who
complained of the price charged for Stilton
was ruled out of order.” Told to cheese it.
¥ *
Alleged that a recent high Soviet official,
scenting his impending fall, got out of Russia
with an amount equal to £35,000 in English
money. No doubt, he had heard the song
“Pack up your roubles in your old kit-bag.”
YOU UNDERSTAND!
“I can’t get a maid to sweep
under the beds.”
“Oh, mine sweeps every-
thing there.”
Certain disillusioned timber-workers talk
of declaring the planks in the Labor party’s
platform black.
* *
A COMMON TRAGEDY.
He lost control of his car, poor chap,
Which is why his wife is in tears. ...
No, he never suffered a road mishap.
His instalments got in arrears.
D.
A visitor declares that
Melbourne tram-conduc-
tors are “a race of
angels.” Angels that ever
fight for fares.
* *
“Sanders delivered a
punch to the jaw which
floored Boyle, and the
referee then stopped the
light.” A Boyle over, in
fact.
* #
WORLD-BEATING.
(As done by the best
long-distance fliers in
messages subsidised by
the Australian tax-
payer through the Postal
Department’s press-wire
losses, and offered as
news to Australian daily-
paper readers.)
(Olor and D.U.D.
Cables.)
Left London. Hotaire-
Tapir engine working
wonderfully.
Marseilles. Cold head-
winds. Prevented colds
with the Catarkil jubes
we are carrying. Oiled
Hotaire-Tapir engine
with Dinkumol.
Rome. Grand sight of
Seven Hills at dawn through our See-Moore
binoculars (gift of Lord Hegbert See-Moore,
Ltd.).
Benghazi. Hotaire-Tapir engine marvel-
lous. Landed in the desert on our super-
resilient Puff-Pough cord tires. Arabs much
impressed by our Pilloform flying-suits.
Basra. Kept off snipers with a shot from
our Potstrait sporting rifle. Hotaire-Tapir
engine still functioning miraculously on
Ohell spirit and Pushkol. Catarkil, Ltd.,
radio’d us, “Well done, Catarkil!”
Rangoon. This wonderful Hotaire-Tapir
engine is wonderful. So were Onkus’s Nifty
Nuts for Nockin .Nerves during the long,
trying jump—done in 10 hours by Wire-
wheel’s gift chronometer.
Bandoeng. Have fallen into sea. Would
have hit Java but for supreme forethought
shown in adopting Hotaire-Tapir engine and
Biffum’s booster. Making for Bima in our
non-puncturable Hocus-Pocus rubber boat
made by Flipflops. Have ample Horsehead
iron rations and Piffwick’s Peas.
Darwin. Safe here and drinking refresh-
ing Brownwater beer. Hotaire-Tapir engine
(which we salvaged) still running sweetly.
Resuming journey on foot wearing Hobnail’s
boots and Cottontail’s durango socks.
Wentup and Fellout.
(Exclusive. Copyright.)
n.s.w. Tiie llippogrypii.
WHAT HONEYMOONS ARE FOR.
“And how long did you know her before
you were married?”
“Didn’t know her at all—only thought I
did.”
The total gate* receipts for the Fifth Test,
which occupied eight days, amounted to
£15,74-5. This rtepresents the most leisurely
Test gait on record.
“The marriage rate in Victoria has dropped
from 7.88 in 1027 to 7.53 in 11*28. a differ-
ence of .35 per thousand.'* A number of
married meu will soon wish that they were
that fraction.
THE INCORRIGIBLE MALE.
"In Melbourne, police action has been requested
regarding small boys who use scooters ‘in a reckless
and reprehensible manner.’ ”
Of safety , which is Caution’s fruit,
Man is himself « looter:
The father goes upon the scoot,
His son upon the scooter.
P.
¥ *
Civic Commissioner Morton, of Sydney,
says that “a healthy Australian citizen has
a high monetary value.” Rating us high is
evidently an incurable habit of his.
¥
TITE FINAL TOAST.
“Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen: We have
enthusiastically honored the toast of his
Majesty the King. We have toasted Un-
health of his Excellency the Governor-
General. The previous speaker eloquently
proposed the health of the Lord Mayor. And
now, Mr. Chairman and gentlemen, I have
a final toast to submit to you. 1 propose,
though with certain misgivings, the health
of all present who have been drinking our
aldermanic champagne.”
An M.H.R. suggests that members’ names
should be placed in a hat, and only those
drawn out should speak to a bill. The hat
used, of course, would be the one the sug-
gestion was made through.
When a woman says that she is going
to bring her husband to his senses she means
that she intends to drive him out of them.
CLASSIFICATION.
“She’s no good—she always likes to have men
running after her.”— Statement in Sydney police court.
When o;i such thoughts I've time to waste
It often has occurred to me
That many girls are really chaste,
And many more would like to be.
H. H.
Speaking at a farewell gathering to Josiah
Thomas, ex-Senator, a speaker said that “the
slight setback of the last election might be
of ultimate good to Nationalism.” There’s
a doubting Thomas on that point.
* *
GENTLEMEN ! GENTLEMEN!
“Mr. Bavin : ‘What does that prove ?’
“Mr. Lang: ‘lt proves what a coldblooded, callous
brute you are.’
“The Premier : ‘Why don’t you get whoever writes
your speeches to read the bill?’
“ ‘Oh! Take your clothes back to Mrs. Woolf,’
retorted Mr. Lang, rudely remarking on the Premier’s
evening suit.”
Windbag : “As I was saying, when an hon.
member cast reflections on my parentage
four hours ago, the present bill”
Slang: “Whose old man did time?”
Blither (rising fiercely) : “Whose grand-
mother pinched the neighbor’s washing?”
Slang : “The honorable gentleman’s a
lying hound. Go and clean Bondi beach !”
AN EXPERT AT THE BUSINESS.
VIDA: “I suppose you don’t happen to
know of a good hairdresser?”
DORA: “ Rather! There’s a chap in the
Arcade who gave me three winners and
a second last Saturday.”
The Speaker (after another half-hour
of it) : “Gentlemen!”
An Hon. Member: “Liar!”
And at last the stranger in the gallery
felt that a morsel of truth had edged its
way into the debate.
H. M.
YVONNE.
Her name seemed fragrant ivith romance
; When fair Yvonne and / were wed.
To-day it stubs me like a lance,
And going home at eve I dread.
In every gibe and sneer and slur
On my behavior cast I spy
The reason why they christened her:
She always starts off with a “Why?”
THE INEBRIATE.
A SPLENDID IDEA!
There is a movement on foot in Melbourne
to collect £lOO,OOO to get American tourists
to come and spend their money here. I
think it is a Splendid Idea.
Only think of the sights we could show
them. They could be taken to the Art Gal-
lery to see the latest purchases of the Felton
Bequest, including the genuine £14,000 Tin-
toretto, the original of which is said to be in
New York. Then they could be shown the
beginnings of the new bridge, though they
would have to get into diving-dresses for that,
and they could be shown the proposed sites
of the other six bridges and also the pro-
posed site of the Anzac Square at the top
of Bourke-street and where the civic square
will be. And Mr. J. A. Smith could explain
to them exactly what the Jolimont railway-
yards will look like when they are roofed over
and covered with picture palaces!
And even then there are lots of things to
see. For instance, there is the proposed spot
in the middle of Hobson’s Bay where the
Coney Island of Australia is to me, and they
could stand on the actual ground where the
St. Kilda Council’s Stillwater pool, with the
cafeteria and casino attached, will one day
be. And they could ride in a char-fi-banc
round the floor of Mr. Kent-Hughes’s pro-
posed Yarra lake. Then they could meet
Mr. Fritz Hart and have the permanent sym-
phony orchestra explained, and they could go
to a first night at His Majesty’s to see Mr.
Tommy Cochran when lie comes back from
the Pyrenees.
And, of course, they would have to go to
Coombe Cottage and sing to Melba (if she
is not in London or Paris at the time) in
case there is a Discovery amongst them. And
as for volcanoes, there is Mr. Holloway, at
the Trades Hall, refusing to allow anybody
but the union to pay his fine, and if our
visitors care about ancient ruins there is the
State Upper House.
Oh, and I forgot to mention the proposed
Yarra Boulevard and the proposed widening
of Chapel-street, Prahran. Then they could
be taken over the Herald and shown the set-
ting-up of the day’s leader about electric
trams in Collins-street. And if they had an
hour or two to spare they could be shown
over a motor-factory and also taken to a
Williamson theatre, where American plays
are sometimes supplied with Australian
bodies, too.
Personally, I think
there are lots and lots
of things to see in Mel-
bourne, and if the Ameri-
can tourists do come here
I shall be only too
pleased to do my bit and
show any eligible and
attractive young man in
the party the new gnus
at the Zoo.
THE OFFICE FLAPPER.
DISENCHANTMENT.
I told the flapper I was all afire
With love of her and passionate desire;
I praised her eyes, and said the dazzling
sheen
Of her fair hair was worthy of a queen.
I swore my'love tootild time’s worst strokes
defy;
And tcaited eagerly for her reply.
And then it came. Oh, blazes! I felt mad!
“Be cripes," she chirped, “Y’ know yer
onions, lad!”
D. McM.
TEMPERING THE LITERARY.
“The realism of the language need not be affected;
simple alterations in the words would make any of
the stories fit to be read by school-children.” —
Sydney Evening News.
“Well, you charming old angel,” said
Bullocky Bill to his friend Jim the Drover.
“Where in Buddha’s name have you been to
all this lovely time?”
“It’s a watery long story,” smiled Jim,
putting the Bible he had been reading back
in his pocket. “I thought I’d made my de-
lightful fortune; and I’d never have taken to
the rambling road again but for a beautiful
old beau I had the dazzling luck to meet at
Bilker’s Siding.”
“Bilker’s Siding! Where the sweet, merry
Paradise is that?”
“It’s a smiling curiosity of a place, the
other side of Gigglegumbone,” replied Jim.
“Surely to Confucius you know where that
is, you sweetly pretty animal!”
That should be enough to show how easy
it all is.
P. PAWNTICKET.
REVISION.
“Her feet? Oh! Oh, my 1 They’re that big.”—
Sydney paper, detailing a flapper conversation.
Her feet beneath her petticoat
Like Oh! Oh, my’s! crept in and out
As if they feared the light;
No other feet that I hare eyed
Since early youth have occupied
Such an extensive site.
P.


NATIONAL HOTEL,
* BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
ni
r, r«! m
■A
Vddress Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Oafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
21.
EARN ALL YOU CAN—
SAVE ALL YOU CAN—GIVE ALL YOU CAN
Such was the good advice of John Wesley. You are, of course, entitled
to earn all you can, and no doubt are bending all your energies in that
direction.
Nevertheless, what you save will, in the long run, probably count for
more than what you earn.
Use the easy saving plan. Open a Commonwealth Savings Account,
and be faithful to it, for the sake of your future needs and that you
may be able to give when it is your duty to give.
Commonwealth Savings lank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
'&M*2S**
Jt
V-lIiP"
'XII
EM*.
No Hotel In Adelaide
gives such comfort
at small cost. Oppo-
site Railway Station.
Close to theatres and
shopping. 300 rooms
and 100 bathrooms.
Yale locks on every
door. Excellent ser-
vice throughout.
Write for Tariff.
3‘GROSVENOR
cJldelaides Finest Unlicensed Jiotel
Opp. Railway Sta. North Terrace. Phone Cent.4o4l
A ROGUE IN AMBER
By-J.B.COOPER
Illustrations by- Percy Liixds^y
Synopsis : Implicated in Paris in
the murder and robbery of the Baron-
ess Bellarosa, Antonio Saccaco, a
Neapolitan, is assisted by his wife
Jeannette to escape, leaving his co-
criminal, Francois Ncigrc, in gaol.
■Twenty years later, under the name of
Carducci, Saccaco is a hawker on the
River Murray. At Mildura his hand-
some daughter Marie has secret meet-
ings with Gerald Deacon, who knocks
Carducci out when the hawker dis-
covers them. Gerald’s father, who
wants his son to marry Betty Cal-
croft, pays £25 compensation, and soon
after Carducci so arranges the destruc-
tion of his launch that he collects in-
surance. With this money lie opens a
shop in Melbourne, where Marie sits
as model to Edward Felspar. Felspar
in Paris had married Lisettc Belas,
who left him When money urns short.
After his return to Australia he re-
ceived a certificate of her death. This
certificate Carducci, always eager to
make money by any means, steals from
the studio just before leaving for Syd-
ney, where Marie has an engagement
as a model. Meanwhile, Marie and
Gerald (who has gone to Eng-
land) have exchanged impassioned
letters, and Jack Carew, a Murray
farmer, has declared his love for Betty.
Felspar, also in love with Betty, who
is staying in Melbourne with her rela-
tions, the Clintons, tells her of his
Paris marriage, and when he feels for
the certificate, finds it is missing. He
also declares his love, but is lightly
rejected.
BETTY’S mind, on her way home to the
Clintons, was engaged with thoughts of
a farmer’s son. Jack Carew, who knew
most bush things, though he had not any
knowledge of art, Paris, or artists’ models.
His clear eyes radiated honesty. He was
so strong, too, and tanned, so different from
her pale-faced artistic admirers in the stuffy
city.
When she reached the home of the
Clintons she found a letter waiting for her.
Eagerly she opened the envelope and read:
Sheep Trail Farm,
Sunday.
My Dear Betty, — lt’s good to hear that
your heart is still in Mildura and that you
believe, darling, that 1 know something
about it. Well, maybe I do; quite a lot
if I could whisper it to you.
Do you think, Betty, that I’m such a
poor hand at picking as not to pick the
best grape in Mildura? So l don’t blame
the artist chap because he’s heading to-
wards paying you attentions, uncommonly
like lovemaking. I know what you say is
right, that he is a friend of the Clintons,
and all that, and that you can’t shoo him
off as if he was about to eat you. But that’s
not the “bee in my bonnet,” as you phrase
it, Betty. You see it’s this. You are down
there and I am up here, and he’s a kind
of between us. I’ve got no “bee in my
bonnet,’ but what about one in that pretty
head of yours? You have your way with
me, as you always will have, and I’m mum,
as you ask, on you playing the part of a
“surprise packet,” until such time as we
are in a position to announce our engage-
ment. But I think it’s time your admirers
knew 1 am alive, and just who I’m going
to marry, a Mildura girl, by the name of
Betty Calcroft. You tell them that from
me, and that my name is Jack Carew.
Have you heard that Gerald Deacon has
returned from England? He is motoring
next week, 1 believe, from Adelaide to
Mildura, on his way to Melbourne. 1 hear
great reports of the Monaco colt 1 put him
on to. I wish I had bought the colt my-
self now, but I don’t really grudge Gerald
having him.
1 suppose Gerald will call on you, and
maybe try to make love to you, as he does
to every pretty xvoman he sees. He can’t
help it, but you know Gerald, so there is
nothing for me to worry about. I’ll be
down soon in Melbourne, if any of your
admirers want to see the man who has got
your heart penned up in his. I’ll be down,
anyway, at Cup time,'and I hope that to-
gether ive’ll see Gerald’s horse win a race.
The country is as dry as a bone, only
six points of rain have fallen this season,
sheep dying for want of grass. If the
drought conditions continue, I’ll soon be
busy droving south some of those big flocks
for the squatters. It pays all right, and the
hard stuff goes into my glory-box what
for, / wonder? Garry is quite all right,
and thank you for inquiring. He’s the best
sheep-dog in the country, though I say so,
and a real nice dog for a young wife to
have about the house. I’m glad you love
Garry. Love me, love my dog! Don’t
forget to answer that in your next. It’s
important.
Dad’s going to sell out at last, driven
into Mildura by the bad season. But he
and mother are getting old, and that’s it
really, and they are due for a rest. They
will live in Mildura. Dad is advancing me
the balance of the purchase money on my
block and orchard, so I can tell you there
“‘Sit there, Saccaco!”
will be soon something doing between the
sweetest girl in the world and
Ever, my darling, your
Jack.
Betty smiled, and with a little affectionate
pat on the letter, put it carefully in her
bag.
Chapter IX.
Felspar persuaded himself that Mr. Clin-
ton would not be unfriendly towards him
in any serious attentions he paid to Betty.
He sensed that he would have to be accept-
able to Betty’s relations before he had a
chance given him to woo her. He was un-
easy as to how the families would regard
his early marriage in Paris. He argued that
th e Calcrofts
were provincial
folk. They had
lived their lives
on the Murray,
and most pro-
bably they had misty notions of the
wickedness of Paris; if they had ever
heard of the Latin Quarter it was certain
to be associated in their minds with strug-
gling, shiftless artists and models, and
Bohemian loves. Mrs. Clinton did not run
to cosmopolitan outlooks, and she, too,
would share the Calcrofts’ views.
Mr. Clinton himself. Felspar thought, was
one who would have a sensitive under-
standing of how he had been placed when
he married Lisette Delas. It was, therefore,
to Mr. Clinton he went, after his revela-
tions to Betty, to make a like confession to
him. Mr. Clinton’s support would be of
untold value in dispelling his wife’s and
his sister-in-law’s doubts, if doubts should
be born when they heard the tale of his
life in Paris.
Felspar called at Mr. Clinton’s office and
found him in. Without any reservation he
told of his early marriage. He laid
stress on how Jules Dejazet had sent him
the death certificate, obtained from the
Paris Morgue authorities. When he ex-
plained that he had lost the death certi-
ficate, Mr. Clinton raised his heavy eye-
brows and gave one of his quick, penetrat-
ing glances. He pulled his sharp grey beard
meditatively.
“That’s unfortunate,” he said. “You see,
Felspar, having told as much as you have
done, and very properly so, it becomes
necessary that you should produce the cer-
tificate. I think you will see that is so.”
“I quite realise that.”
“Have you no idea where it could have
gone?”
“Yes, I have an idea, but it seems absurd.”
“Never mind. I’m absurd, but I’m a
live fact. Let’s have it,” said Clinton,
brusquely. -
Felspar cleared his throat. He felt a
little nervous, almost as if he were on his
defence. In his cultured voice he said:
“I have carefully recalled my acts and re-
traced my movements—that is, as well as
I could—from the moment I put the death
certificate in my wallet until the time I
missed it. The wallet was out of my sight
but once, and then only for six or seven
minutes.”
“When was that”
“The morning,” Felspar replied, “after the
night. I had some artists at my studio.
Carducci, the Italian, came first thing, about
seven o’clock, to see me. How he knew
I would be there at that hour, and not at
my home in Ivanhoe, puzzles me.”
“He didn’t know,” declared Clinton. “He
thought you would not be “-there.”
“He said he came to congratulate me on
the picture.”
“That’s a bit thin. Likely he would get
up early for the pleasure of congratulating
you when he could do so equally well
during the day,” observed Clinton with dry
precision.
“The end of it was I gave him a drink
of whisky. There was no water. I was
away, as 1 say, five or six minutes. I had,
when I undressed, left my watch and wallet
on a shelf. They were within sight of
Carducci, but, not within his reach from
where he sat. When I returned with the
water he was sitting in the place where I
left him. It seems absurd to suspect him of
taking the certificate.”
“Why?” asked Clinton aggressively.
“Well, what good could it be to him?
Besides, there were two one-pound notes
in the wallet. Woidd he not have taken
them? No, I’m not inclined to think he
took the certificate,” remarked Felspar,
meditatively.
“It seems to me you have a very kindly
feeling for this man. He got up early,
on the off chance that you would be at your
studio, and not at your home in Ivanhoe,
just to congratulate you! Do you believe
that tosh?” asked Clinton derisively.
A flush flew over the young man’s usually
pale face. Clinton’s robustness jarred upon
'-.is sensitiveness.
“I admit the way you put it shakes mj'
faith a bit,” he answered.
“Anyhow, you didn’t think he came to
rob you when he knocked at your door.
You asked the brigand to have a glass of
whisky. Do you generally do that with your
models?”
“I must put myself right about that, Mr.
Clinton. I keep whisky in my studio for
my friends who desire it, as I keep tea. Car-
ducci saw the whisky bottle. I did not ask
him to have any drink. He helped himself
to it. I had to leave the studio to get
some water for him.”
Clinton chuckled. “Quite so! Quite so!
The Dago, having posed so often as your
(Continued on page


%
A
‘P 1
\a/>
v\.
***
*7
is
J
\
[
v>.
„ v
*?
C-c, , s\l*-, ' Vit
> *>s►,*>
»ur-7w
Y*fc
\«£.«
f
*t
k,
/
A"
*
A'v
w: %
w
Sr
*K
r
'V
»,
C
/'V
4
I«r\
X
■stu
N
A
A
«4fe.
e
ew
Faster—livelier
More Power! til
SWEEPING beyond all accepted ideas of light-car beauty, comfort and perform-
ance, the new Superior Whippet sets advanced high standards of its own.
With longer bodies, higher radiator, sweeping, one-piece full-crown mudgards, new
artistry of finish and perfection of detail, the Superior Whippet definitely establishes
an ultra-modern style trend for Fours and light Sixes.
BIGGER BODIES—MORE COMFORT.
Maximum riding and driving comfort in the new Superior Whippet is assured by
more spacious interiors, with 3 inches added leg room; wider seats, heavily upholstered,
with improved contours conforming with natural body curves, longer springs both
front and rear, full balloon tyres and snubbers.
(m a.
THE MOST NOTABLE ADVANCE IN DRIVING
CONVENIENCE SINCE THE SELF-STARTER.
The Superior Whippet is the first car to offer the new “Finger-Tip
Control”—a single button conveniently located in the centre of
the steering wheel, which controls all functions of starting the
engine, operating the lights and sounding the horn.
This ingenious device does away with all troublesome foot-fumbling
for the starting button, usually located in a somewhat inaccessible
position, and obviates a change from the comfortable driving position
to reach the light switch on the dash.
While everyone will welcome this new feature, it will appeal
particularly to women drivers. Its simple operation is clearly
explained by the illustrations on the left.
LOWER COST OF OPERATION
LOWER OPERATING COSTS WITH


upenor
ll Mppet
Greater Beauty -Larger
Bodiesjn complete Lme
of Fours and Sixes
x£z-
/f{ ¥\k\«
r.» y^f\V
( < 1/$/ i
_ '> W
VS wsurs *:
- §§§
@§ w
9
'<f
\ i .
-OK,
*s>
A'
a
w
A
ft
tt
v'V
M
/A' 1
'»*. ,*'V
I
*** *>".
®St>
1
Vi
s
\
m
ri
5/
A
&IlSFt£igS
MECHANICALLY as well as artistically, the
new Superior Whippet is so far ahead that
it surpasses even its own predecessor. A
higher compression engine gives more than 20 p.c.
added horse-power, with greatly increased speed
and liveliness, and 30 miles—or more—to the gallon.
Higher second-gear speed gives faster pick-up.
Unusually low consumption of benzine and oil, and
dependable performance, result in marked operating
economy and minimum service costs.
ORDER NOW FOR EARLY DELIVERY.
See this new Superior Whippet to-day. An inspec-
tion and a demonstration will prove that in buying
either a Whippet Four or Six, your pound now
brings greater value than ever before. An immediate
order will aid in early delivery.
OVERLAND (VIC.) PTY.,
LIMITED,
117-21 Lonsdale Street-
Melbourne.
OVERLAND SYDNEY,
LIMITED,
148-50 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
E. G. EAGER & SON,
LIMITED,
Breakfast Creek Road,
Newstead, Brisbane.
OVERLAND SOUTH
AUSTRALIA, LIMITED,
Franklin Street, Adelaide.
ADAM S’ MOTORS,
LIMITED,
442 Murray Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO.,
LIMITED,
53-56 Bathurst Street,
Hobart.
OVERLAND WHIPPET FOURS AND SIXES


Banking, Public Companies, etc,
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,01)0
Capital Paid Up and Reserves . . .. £3.369.905
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928.. £18,623,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; 11. It. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E. ;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER: C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 02 Bislioysgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 1 86 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH;
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. •• £529,988
Preference Shines .. .. •• 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 616,210
Ordinary Shares .. •• •• 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,732,525
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji, ’ Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Firelnsurances< ,ff(, ct<Hi °nan classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
Marine Risks
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The ‘'United” is an Australian Institution.
A. 0. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
đ
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cu*.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Übe Dominion.
New Zealand's
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion'' is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
Shipping, etc.
In the Isles
of Enchantment
SOFTLY cradled in the Pacific, like tropical
flowers afloat on the surface of a pond,
the Isles of Enchantment beckon to wearied
Australians. In their deep restfulness are the
gentle weaving of palms, the caress of wind
in the trees, the murmur of surf, the scent of
strange blossoms, the majesty of green-mantled
mountains, the beauty of thatched roofs
between fruit-trees.
These await you at Rarotonga and Papeete,
or at Suva and Honolulu, and in addition an
ocean holiday at lpss than the cost of a city
vacation.
Particulars from —
UNION STEAM
SHIP COMPANY,
247 George Street,
Sydney.
59 William Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
•s'SSr-TN
3?
-v? -O^W
tw:
rf^c
STEAMSHIP PASSAGES
Arranged by AH Steamship Lines.
Choice of Any Route. Without Extra Charge.
ENGLAND
FRANCE
ITALY
GERMANY
From AUSTRALIA
AMERICA
CANADA
MEXICO
AFRICA
to
JAPAN
EGYPT
INDIA
CHINA
Also attractive tours to Honolulu, Java, Colombo, Fiji,
BUSINESS TRIPS. PLEASURE CRUISES.
AUSTRALIA TO
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
VISIT JAVA (“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly sailings maintained by the popu-
lar steamers “MARELLA” and “MALA-
BAR” from Melbourne, Sydney and
Brisbane, via Queensland 1 Ports. Torres
Strait, Darwin, etc.
For Reservations and Information apply
JC
sly?
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. And all Branch Offices.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
fDemosthenes 11,500 tons, April 12.
*Ulysses .. . 15,000 ~ May 10.
fThemistocles 11,500 ~ June 10.
sRunic .... 12,500 „ July 9.
*Ascanius . . 10,000 „ July 22.
"'First class only. tFirst and Third class.
£“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. |* E ' ,n "
AWAY TO
HAWAII
HAWAII
HAWAII
“With the morning sun o’er mountains old,
Earth turns from its green to purple and gold.”
So the poet describes Hawaii —the playground
of the Pacific. Come then, spend a few happy
weeks, daydreaming, surfing, golfing, playing,
forgetting time, here in Sunny Hawaii. Inter-
Island Cruises. Visit Kilauea Volcano.
Steamer Fares, Round Trip: First Class, £l5
up; Second Class, £55 up. First-class Hotel
Accommodation from 12/- to £3 per day, with
meals. -It costs no extra money for through
passengers to break this journey at
HAWAII—HAWAII —HAWAII
Inquire at any Travel or Steamship Company
for fullest particulars, or write
HAWAII TOURIST BUREAU,
Dept. 26, Box 162788, G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
ESTABLISHED 1811
WALES.
With ■which is amalgamated
d
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK,
PAID-UP CAPITAL ..
RESERVE FUND
RESERVE LIABILITY..
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20,900,000
mjst*
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30. 1928, £88,982,585.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DA\ IDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
549 Branches and \gencies in the Australian States. Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outporta).
Sydney Agents.
Mcllwraith,
Mc l'acharn, Ltd.,
19 Bridge Street.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Huddart, Parker,
Ltd.,
10 Bridge Street.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
Mcllwraith,
McEacharn. Ltd.,
19 Bridge Street.
Melbourne S.S. Co.
Ltd., Clarence
& Barrack Sts.
Howard Smith Ltd.
68 Margaret St.
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS
(Transhipping for outporta).
Howard Smith Ltd
58 Margaret St.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
TO EUROPE—
Via UNITED STATES & CANADA
See Honolulu, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Chicago,
Niagara Falls, New York, Vancouver, Montreal, Que-
bee, and travel across the Atlantic on one of the
luxurious
CUNARD LINERS,
including the
R.M.S. AQUITANIA, R.M.S. BERENGARIA,
46,000 Tons. 54,000 Tons.
R.M.S. MAURETANIA,
30,000 Tons.
Return Tickets issued by the Suez Canal and Cape
Lines are available for this route.
Apply for particulars of reduced through rates to
CUNARD LINE
(C. and D. Line),
1 BENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Splendid Cheap Service
' Via Suez Canal
FAST OIL BURNERS
In conjunction with Sailings via South Africa.
Excellent Menu. Late Dinner.
Fares to London from £3B.
P. g 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For particulars apply
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Box 513 AA, 5 O’Conna’l St., Sydney.
’Phone: 86701
BRISBANE,via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S S ORARA —Every Saturday evening ; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
SS WOLLONGBAR — Every Tuesday evening;
nasserigors due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
1 Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/6/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CM A EFTS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart Parkerl
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailing?
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
% /
fy
M
NARCH
Cigars-
Craig sAitken
Wholesale
Distributors
Sijdney N.S-V
If any illustration in The Bulletin take;
your fancy, write to the Manager, who vrill
quote you price for the original.


By K.P.M. de Luxe Liners to
JAVA and SUMATRA
T.S.S. NIEUW HOLLAND T.S.S. NIEUW ZEELAND
11,000 Tons
First - class
Return Fares
to Java from
Sydney and
Brisbane:
£Bl
From Melbourne
£B7
r Ti -;
WtHM
*
?*&.■&' 44$ ’■&
MW.
&
$
Ui
First-class
Return Fares
to Penang and
Bela wan (Sum-
atra) from
Sydney:
£99
From Melbourne
£lO5
Largest, fastest and most luxurious Mail Liners, via the Great
Barrier to Macassar (Celebes), Java, Singapore, Penang and
Belawan Deli (Sumatra) direct.
Head Office jor Australasia:
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY
(K.P.M. Line),
255 George Street, Sydney.
This Razor will
last a Lifetime
Kropp Razors are hand-forged from solid bars of special steel by the world's
most expert cutlers. They take a finer, keener edge than ordinary cast steel
or machine-stamped razors.
KROPP
never
requires
grinding
It makes shaving a pleasure. Your face will be smoother, cleaner and more
comfortable when you use one of these wonderful razors.
ALL-BRITISţ
Sheffield made and world famous. Individually tested, and fully guaranteed.
From the usual dealers. Black Ivory or Xylonite handles.
Wholesale only: OSBORNE GARRETT & CO., LTD., London, England
(fi e
S«K
Ib*
Britain’s
Motor
Masterpiece
In Mayfair and the Shires, across the plains of
India and the desert tracks of Iraq, in the sun-
shine of Australia, or on the African veldt—-
everywhere where cars are used you will find
the Sunbeam.
Not only in mechanical efficiency but also in
coachwork of fine appearance and luxurious
comfort, Sunbeam leads the way.
Its high road speed, ease of control, security
of braking and stability under all conditions
ensure a performance of exceptionally high
standard.
The coachwoik combines unusual beauty of line
with roomy accommodation.
Sunbeam cars for the Australian market are
specially built with the necessary ground clear-
ance, springing and cooling to ensure perfect
performance on the roughest roads and tracks
and in the most tropical heat.
Complete catalogue will be sent on application
to our Australian agents, or direct to our Export
Department.
AUTHORISED DISTRIBUTORS.
THE ALL BRITISH MOTOR CO. PTY., LTD., 111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne,
MESSRS. WILLIAMS, HILL & CAMERON, LTD., 91-97 Flinders Street, Sydney.
MESSRS. ARTHUR BALES, LTD., 367-371 Murray Street, Perth.
RASCH MOTORS, LTD., 69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT:
12 Princes Street, Hanover Square, London, W.l, England.
Cables ;
“Subeamoco,” London.
Head Office and Works:
Wolverhampton, England,
Agents for Egypt: MIDDLE EAST MOTOR AGENCY, 3 Kon-Elo Dick, Alexandria.
Pen and Picture
Shadow Shows
“The Luck of
the Navy”
(British Do-
minions) is a
spy melodrama
on the late war.
Spy stories are
a bit behind or
ahead of the
times. Ihey should be put back on the
shelf until the next war. Then they will be
hot stuff. During the piping times of peace
c *' o °k takes the place of the spy and
nils the public demand for violence and vil-
lainy and the triumph of virtue over vice.
‘ The Luck” could easily be rewritten in
terms of the underworld, and a dashed good
Edgar Wallace shocker it would make. There
is about 1000 feet of fume and fury towards
the finish which is wilder and 1 woollier than
anything this column has seen for a couple
of weeks. Evelyn Laye is the star. She is
the English girl who is reputed to have
turned down a Hollywooden offer of £OOO a
week, but she is no great shakes, either as
regards acting or looks. Percy Hutchison
did “The Luck” here in the flesh a year or
so ago, and it was a dreadful flop.
The setting in which the First National
Vitaphone movie “Love Never Dies” was
screened held more interest for this Show-
man than he was able to find in the picture.
COLLEEN MOORE.
The place was
Sydney Prince
Edward; time,
Sunday night.
He was at-
tracted there
by invitation,
printed on a
card as big as
a liorse-rug, to
be present at
a private
screening. The
“privacy” con-
sisted in a
crowd which
packed every
inch of the
theatre that
he could see.
If Sunday per-
formances
were permit-
ted they would
win enormous
business. The
audience was
treated to a
full-length programme, with interval, ushers
and other impedimenta. The talkies were
the first Vitaphone productions that the
writer had seen, and several of them were
the best he had seen. One overture con-
jured up a sad picture of hundreds of men
in seedy clothes lined up in the unemploy-
ment queues of the fairly close future. He
could not make out what they were exactly,
but they looked remarkably like men who
play in orchestras. “Love Never Dies” is
another air-force story of the part-drama,
part-farce variety. To anyone who harbors
no recollection of how the war really was
fought the picture has strong points as an
entertainment, chiefly made by the tricksy
acting of Colleen Moore. She is a maid
attached to the flying-squad mess, and a
scene in which she drives an aeroplane amok
on the landing-ground is uproariously
funny.
Providence, instinct or some such influ-
ence over which he had no control had pre-
vented this Showman from knowing any-
thing of the works of Zane Grey until
“Avalanche” (Paramount) was unrolled
before him the other day. He knew, of
course, that Zane Grey is a man who makes
enough out of writing to charter ships and
what not for special fishing excursions in the
South Seas, and often he had heard the
writer lauded as a great novelist, unhappily
by critics whose judgment he had had
reason to suspect. And now that he has
seen “Avalanche” he will be content to
plod along in further ignorance of this great
artist until such time as something arises
to convince him that this work is miles
below Zane Grey’s average. It is a story
of brotherly love. One brother loves his
younger so much that he cheats at cards in
order to send him to school. The youngster
returns, only to fall in love with an outpost
cabaret lady who had belonged to the elder.
The elder frowns darkly and threatens, and
the younger and the lady light out for the
wild mountains, whither the elder tracks
them in time for all to become involved in
the “avalanche” —in other words, a stony
landslide. Out of this they somehow emerge
and the elder and the lady depart together.
A picture soaked with false sentiment, in
helping to reveal which a rattling good
actress, Backlanova, wastes an hour or two
of precious time.
Pictures like “The Cop” (De Mille) dis-
pose of still another fallacy about the screen
-—to wit, that it helps to encourage the crook.
The screen crook, despite liis astounding effi-
ciency, invariably gets caught, and the screen
police, despite their abysmal stupidity, in-
variably come out on top. If Bill Sikes
had been born into the moving-picture era
pictures like “The Cop” would have discour-
aged him from embarking on a life of ordi-
nary crime. He would have become a land
speculator. The screen land speculator
never pays the penalty of his sins. He be-
comes a millionaire and marries the beauti-
ful star in the open-work blouse. There is
nothing much to be said for or against “The
Cop.” It is seven stirring reels of low life
in N’York. and resembles its innumerable
ancestors as closely as its innumerable de-
scendants will resemble it.
A fine bit of drama masquerades under
the title of “Name the Woman” (Columbia
Films). District-Attorney Marshall (Huntly
Gordon) is a harsh man who spends his busi-
ness hours sending men to gaol and his leis-
ure ones imprisoning birds. Among his in-
carcerated pets is his wife (Anita Stewart).
The wife takes up again with a former sweet-
heart (Gaston Glass). Gaston meets a
masked woman at a ball, a man is murdered,
the masked woman escapes, and the finger
of suspicion remains pointed at the sweet-
heart. The District Attorney conducts the
prosecution, looking forward with pleasure
to seeing his rival behind bars or in the
chair. However, the masked woman asks
to be put in the witness-box. She refuses
to divulge her name, but agrees to pass
it up to the Judge. He is sufficiently per-
turbed, and, strictly according to court nro-
cedure, he invites her into his parlor, where
she is revealed as the District Attorney's
wife; whereat the case is withdrawn, and
husband and wife are reconciled, hubby
showing his change of heart by releasing
his aviary of birds. The plot is very in-
volved, but is admirably worked out.
The Palette
A shadowy Percy Lindsay show has been
adorning the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney.
There is> straight sunlight in only two of
the 31 offerings, and in one of these, a piece
of sandhill, it is so attractive that the
artist’s general avoidance of it seems rather
strange. Still, many of the pictures are
beautiful in a quiet way, and several of the
small sketches are lovely indeed. One or two
rather good ones are marred by the artist’s
fancy for putting human figures into nearly
everything he does. “Among the Oysters,
Brooklyn,” is a fine miniature, and “Perkin’s
Beach” is another small beauty. Two choice
larger pictures are “Morning, Riddle’s
Jetty,” and “The Old Sobraon.” Altogether,
it is a pleasant show—gentle, shady and
restful.
Art in New Zealand for March holds
some interesting work, both in paint and in
literature. Almost all the plates represent
Auckland artists. A water-color by A. J.
Brown is excellent in design; a refreshing
and colorful decorative piece. Arnold F.
Goodwin’s glimpse of the green and white
Coromandel coast and a harbor night piece
by John Haley are two other fine color repro-
ductions. Literary contributions include a
brief survey of Maoriland letters by Jessie
Mackay and a poem by Eileen Duggan.
“H.M.”: There’s money in art in the
U.S.A., but it brought Emil Fuchs no good.
A poor man when he left Poland, lie was
found to be worth over half a million dollars
after he destroyed himself in New York.
The money goes to public art institutions
and the arrangement of exhibitions.
“M.D.G.” : On March 16, 1880, K. W. E.
(“Bung”) Wilmot joined the Argus and
Australasian staff as contributor on sport-
ing topics. As “Old Boy” he has conducted
the same column for 40 years. It is a record
approached (I don’t think it is equalled) by
only Dick Coombes and Jack Davis, of the
Referee.
“Feng-Shui”: The Shun Pao, China’s
oldest paper if you exclude the Peking
Gazette, celebrated its twenty-thousandth
issue the otlie.r day. It began publication
in Shanghai in 1872 with a single sheet.
To-day it _ runs to 48 pages, with foreign
cable service, leaders, photogravure section
and all complete. Chang Yung-ho. its man-
aging editor, might be described as the
Northcliffe of China, though there is the
usual difference. Chang was given his posi-
tion because of his scholastic attainments,
and since the breakdown of the civil service
examination system during the revolution
he has devoted much time to establishing
schools and colleges.
“Uramao”: A dinner given in London by
High Commissioner Parr brought to a point
of confluence from the converging streams of
art, the drama, literature and journalism
Maorilanders eminent in their various pro-
fessions. Art was represented by David Low,
R. S. Hellaby and H. Rountree; literature
by Pember Reeves. Rosemary Roes, Captain
Frank Hudson and T. J. Pemberton; the
stage by Isobel Wilford. Marie Ney, Mar-
jorie Bassett, Una Buddie and Molly Plim-
mer. The journalists were many; among
them were F. W. Doidge, one of tiie manag-
ing directors of the Beaverbrook group of
newspapers; J. P. Whitelaw, sub-editor of
the Daily Chronicle; Dr. A. J. Harrop,
of the Daily Mail and Weekly Despatch •
and Evelyn Isitt, of the Manchester
Guardian.
“Mak’m Paper”: Papuan officialdom,
which seems full of bright ideas; has com-
menced the issue of a monthly journal in
English for the benefit of the native popula-
tion. It is not stated w T hether the guileless
inhabitant is supposed to pay for the paper ;
if he is I have some fears for the circula-
tion. However, there is a bright lining to
everything, and if the new periodical is
issued free the Papuan should henceforth b>'
free of his most gnawing anxiety—where to
get sufficient paper for his cigarettes.
The Inky Way
THE TRAGIC VOID.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Around the camp-fire growing grey
(None seemed to have the "go”
To set the charring logs in play,
Or make the embers glow),
Upon the conversation’s flow
Hung silence like a pall,
As though a sudden tragic blow
Had settled over all.
The mailman stood with downcast gaze,
As if a deadly blight
Had thrown a shadow o’er his days
That erst had been so bright;
And e’en the very bush seemed dight
In sense of lost romance.
And all the glory of the night
To lose its scintillance.
We gazed upon him standing there
Wlio’d wrought this sudden pain,
Nor blamed him for our dark despair—
We knew that he would fain
Have jubilated heart and brain
Unto a gladsome chime.
He’d simply brought the ghastly news
That gave us all the ultra-blues:
“The Bulletin is out again
Without a ‘Bellerive’ rhyme!”
N.S.W.
HOMFREY BEALE.


Mi !* ;
Wmmrnmm
Wsmmmr
T/k
rfkcze
v? >
AT., 2
V
F
y
■‘UV, I ■■/'.■ Mf.
ylt.
v..
Mm
I jil! >iVi<l. If
m
«*?
•■ t-
o 4 m-
*f> ,• r . 0- **■'v
■^.mag
\mm
f*
sc
AS
i
>i!ill)w
l
v&fr&sf- "X
’#3l:
yr*.
V. >-Al
✓. V'AY
•./\.Y.*r> Sv V
!, •.W'j<- '! VV,
>r .-
%?2r>
i£
si . •
'VS!' .r.<'v#-
'..7
/SgtfK ;;■&«%
v<
jrM
■, ' r <
VI * ■ irffl ,-1
4i
13 iff
».*;?■>' 1 11
«.I*
m
Rv-
'#A&
K
V'4*i
i!
Si-V:
I h.
■'M?
• t ;
I
JO
4*?
V u * - ■»/** ~
~A‘J/K>t y
•••'*> aV ■
v -41
“ /?/?:/(.
•• V^;V"
M
f.--.
‘*■'•ll iy
\y.r>f
M
KV
SC
TAYLOR
SERVICE
yg
e
Distinctive elegance and
dignity are immediately
apparent in every Holden Body.
No less important are many other
distinctive qualities beneath its
finely finished exterior.
Scientifically built, a Holden Body
possesses sturdiness of frame. Complete
insulation ensures silence, accurately
inclined seats and carefully tempered
springs afford maximum comfort, high-
class materials and expert workmanship
guarantee long life.
See that your new car has that
“World Quality ” and air of Dis-
tinction —exclusive in a Holden
Body.
The emblem of world
quality in motor bodies
HOLDEN’S
MOTOR. BODY BUILDERS
1— I ITED
ADELAIDE. MELBOURNE, SYDNEY &_ BRISBANE


ACCURATE SHOOTING AT 500 YARDS.
t
NEW IMPROVED CADET RIFLE.
Hundreds of satisfied Shooters have used
297/230 CALIBRE CADET RIFLES.
This is an ideal sporting rifle. Fires a central fire cartridge larger than a .22
calibre, and is accurate up to 500 yards. 24in. barrel. Under-lever Martini
action, quick and certain in extraction of empty shells. Detachable lock. Elevating
ladder rear sight and protected bead front sight. Fitted complete with cleaning
rod and brush
75/-
CARTRIDGES.—Long (actual size illustrated)
Short
7/6 per 100
5/6 „ „
Va
LTD
PTY
THE GUN PEOPLE.
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Don't wish for the Best—get it.
RESCH’S t
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA'S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO.. LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
AN OLD “SPOT” MELLOWED BY AGE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney. 14.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
It rained in Sydney on Friday and during
the early-morning gallops on Saturday, and
visions of another wet Doncaster haunted
C. W. Cropper, the A.J.C. secretary. To
his great satisfaction, and that of everyone
else with an interest in racing, except own-
ers and trainers of wet-weather horses, the
rain clouds cleared away, and it became
beautifully fine. Naturally, there was an
immense crowd at Randwick, and it wit-
nessed some splendid sport, the only blot on
which was the First Hurdle Race, in which
one of a series of accidents cost an unfor-
tunate animal—Really—its life. If the club
abolished races over the sticks and the big
timber, a large majority of its patrons would
have no regrets.
An observant punter prepared to stake
£2O could have made an easy fiver on the
Autumn Stakes. At first the bookmakers
called “evens” Limerick and Winalot, but
before long 5 to 4 could be got in places
about either of the two cracks, and one or
other was sure to win, bar accident or fluke
—the other four starters were not in their
class. When they were at the post it was
10 to 9 Limerick, 5 to 4 Winalot. When
Winalot beat Limerick in the Rawson Stakes
at Rosehill, Bartle, on the chestnut, got
in the last run. On this occasion McCarten,
the Maoriland gelding’s jockey, managed to
secure that very decided advantage, and the
chances are it made all the difference; at
all events, Limerick came along and settled
Winalot, after the younger horse had dis-
posed of the others, the margin at the finish
being three-quarters of a length. The result
showed that Limerick is no back number,
though he is not quite the horse he was
last year. Valamita, whose record in w.f.a.
races is remarkable (he can’t win handicaps
with a great deal less weight), was a good
third, and Paddi Eve a meritorious fourth.
They got over the 12 furlongs in 2min.
33fsec. —good time, for the track was a bit
dead.
When G. D. Greenwood and the faithful
and eminently capable Mason brought Honor
over from Maoriland a pressman asked the
owner if 4 the son of Limbnd —-Homage was
another Gloaming. Another Gloaming he is
not, but he looks a good one—he is a sub-
stantially-built chestnut—and evidently is.
A 5-to-2 favorite for the Sires’ Produce
Stakes (he was 4 to 1 at first, along with
Pentheus), he was in front after they had
gone a few yards, and was never afterwards
headed. The Melbourne filly Spanish Gal-
leon was the first to tackle him, but he
shook her off without difficulty; however.
Green had to ride him desperately when
Comanche (8 to 1) came with a challenge,
and that Sydney-trained youngster (he is by
The Verderer —Forest Band) would have
won in g few more strides. Nedda (14 to
1), also from Maoriland, was thirds four
lengths away, the seven furlongs taking lmin.
26Jsec. Pentheus gave his backers a poor
run for their money, and so did Parkwood,
who has not fulfilled the promise he showed
in the spring. The A.J.C. provides £5OOO
for the race, and for once it was well re-
warded.
Paquito (4 to 1) gave H. A. Knight, Jones
and McCarten their second success for the
day, and Maoriland its third, in a Highweiglit
Handicap division. These triumphs were
very popular, and there was a great
outburst of cheering when Limerick returned
for the weighing-in. Sydney people have the
highest opinion of owners like Greenwood and
Knight and trainers like Mason and Jones,
while believing that the best of the Maori-
land horsemen are not the equals of Pike
and Munro.
Strephon (10 to 1 on) gave another beauti-
ful exhibition of galloping in the A.J.C. St.
Leger. Pike again took him to the front and
he stayed then* all tin* way, coming home,
on the bit, five lengths ahead of Oatendale
(8 to 1), in 3min. Usee. Lalique (25 to 1)
hung on to Oatendale well, and was only
a head behind the black at the finish, lie
is by Crowdennis-Queen Flash —scarcely a
stayer’s pedigree.
GETTING SOME POINTERS.
“What do you kids think you’re looking at?”
“We’re not looking at anything — we’re just listening.”
All the Sydney dailies tipped Sion for
the Epsom, and so great was the demand
for him on the course that the price short-
ened to 5 to 2, although threes could be got
when they were at the post. The brother
to Vaals looked a picture in the parade—
he is a very handsome chestnut, and
O’Rourke had him trained to the minute —
and he ran a great race, but failed by a
head to beat Karuma (8 to 1). Close as
it was, Karuma would have been very un-
lucky to lose. Though he had the rails posi-
tion he was the last to leave the barrier,
which meant that he had to give 22 mostly
fast horses a start oyer a mile journey in
which ev£ry furlong was sure to be run in
a tick over 12sec. He was not sighted until
the field, piloted by Gilt Edge and Soulton,
rushed into the straight; then he was seen
to be about ninth, Sion being fourth or fifth.
Sion soon cut down the leaders, and with
Munro keeping him going, looked all over
a winner until Karuma came at him on the
outside. It was a most exciting tussle be-
tween two game horses, and many people
were prepared to see both numbers go up
together, but Toohey was satisfied that his
mount had just got there; and so it proved.
Loquacious (8 to 1) emerging from the ruck
with a strong run, was third, three-quarters
of a length behind Sion; Catkin, Killarney,
Kalloni, Wedding Eve and Soulton followed
her. The time was Imin. 38Jsec.
The Bulletin picked Karuma when the
weights came out and remained constant to
him throughout. He is a four-year-old bay
stallion by Magpie (one of the best English
horses that ever came to Australia) out of
Earloona, who was closely related to Radnor,
and is owned by E. L. Baillieu, of Melbourne,
and the Sydney accountant who races under
the name of Mr. “Constable.” The partners
bought the horse from Carey, the Randwick
trainer, and left him in Carey’s hands, and
have every reason to be satisfied with both
moves. They got 20 to 1 and better for a
good parcel of their commission, and on the
course a substantial wager was laid at
twelves, while a few members of the general
body of racegoers got tens. Toohey has been
very successful in Doncasters, having ridden
Speciality, Julia Grey and The Epicure in
successive years. He has lost a bit of his
former daring, but can still ride a finish
with the best of them.
S. Aus. provided the favorite for the Syd-
ney Cup in Kidaides, most consistent of
stayers. He ran a good race, but there was
only one in it at the finish, and that was
Crucis, a four-year-old bay gelding, by im-
ported Satelles —Princess 8., in Dan Lewis’s
Randwick stable. Prominent throughout,
Crucis came away from the field with a
furlong or so to go and romped home from
Paddi Eve and Kidaides; and he ran the
two miles in 3min. 23Jsec., time which has
been excelled only by Kennaquhair’s 3min.
22Jsec. in 1920. There was a lot of inter-
ference during the race, but Crucis would
have won anyhow. He has come on rapidly
this year, being a recent recruit from the
Maiden Handicap class, but he was not
hitherto highly regarded as a stayer. At
20 to 1 (better in places) in the ring and
just under 14 to 1 on the tote (three divs.),
he is the sixth outsider to carry off the
Sydney Cup in eight years. He was ridden
very skilfully by Cook. Lewis trained Tan-
gible when that horse ran second to Winalot
last year.
* * * *
For the third day:—
All-Aged Stakes : Mollison.
Champagne Stakes: Holdfast.
Cumberland Stakes: Strephon.
Coogee Handicap: Quince; next, Colored.
City Handicap: Octember.
This Page expects Strephon to go through
the meeting unbeaten. Valley may be worth
backing if reserved for the Rous Handicap
on the last day.
Punters saw Sailing Home, favorite for
the Epsom Handicap (not the Epsom Hauui-
cap), remain at the post on Saturday. They
also saw a 50-to-l chance, All Crimson, bob
up in the Epsom Plate, while the Purse
went to Quick Deal, at 20 to 1, and the
Two-year-old Handicap to Limber Up, at
15 to 1. The homeward journey was gloomy
in the extreme.
* * * *
The sale of the Kingsfield (N.S.W.) stud
realised £38,015. Mares with foals by Rossen-
dale at foot were in demand, the top price
being 1200 guineas for an imported matron
by Orby; altogether, brood mares brought
in £20,945. Of the three stallions, Rossen-
dale topped the bidding at 9500 guineas,
paid by J. F. Foster, of Cullengoral
(N.S.W.). In spite of his fine record, Ros-
sendale’s age makes it questionable whether
Pantheon was not the better bargain at
the 7250 guineas given for him by Percy
Miller, lie is by Tracery, of whom the
Sportsman’s Special Commissioner had so
high an opinion, w 7 as a great racehorse, is
splendidly built, and has all his stud cai'eer
before him. Orby’s Pride went for a mere
£3OO.
* * * «
“S.T.S.”: The one time when the tote
shows to disadvantage is in a very small
field. In the Burra (S.A.) Cup, everything
was against it. There were only four
starters; two of them had little support;
the others divided first place. The result
was that backers of one dead-heater, Little
Gun (by Wee Gun), got: back only 19s. for
their £l. Still, they would probably have
fared worse had there been no tote.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Billy Grime, one-time holder of the
feather, light and welter championships of
Australia, crashed badly to Maorilandcr
Johnny Leckie at Sydney Stadium on Satur-
day night, the police stopping the mill in
the 14th round, after Grime had received the
hiding of his life. It has been evident to
all since his return from America that Grime
had left most of his old skill behind, and
the result was by no means unexpected.
Leckie, who has built up a great reputation
across the Tasman, was master of the situa-
tion throughout. He is a fine two-handed
boxer, with an upright stance and a stinging
wallop in cither hand. lie can stand a
punch too, for Grime rocked him with a stiff
right to the jaw in the third round, the*
effects of which were easily shaken off.
Grime showed some of his old trickiness, but
it was quite ineffectual in keeping the Maori-
lander out, the latter attacking relentlessly
as the fight went on. In the 14th round
Grime was floored three times in rapid suc-
cession, and was all but out when the police
intervened. Weights were announced as
Leckie Bst. 1111 b., Grime 9st.
The Ins and Outs
“Easy C.” : Although the critics are now
classing Duckworth as the best wicket-keeper
in the world on the form he displayed in
the Tests, many of the English -players do
not agree with them. They contend that in
England, where the wickets are much slower,
Ames is easily the fin/r 'keeper. If that is
so the Kent man’s inclusion in the 1930
games seems assured. In addition to his
ability with the gloves he is a brilliant
batsman, and will greatly strengthen Eng-
land’s tail.
❖ :{: t'fi sjc
“Spare Sub”: Praise be to those respon-
sible that Queensland has joined the ranks
of those cricket States which have forbidden
any member of a State team, including the
manager, bottleholders and other super-
numeraries, from contributing cricket articles
to the press. The player-writer has been
virulent this season, and the public will wel-
come the newcomer to the ranks of sanity.
Indeed, there is good reason to think it
would welcome a scheme for the suppression
of the old-timers who have been proving at
great length that the ability to play cricket
in the long ago by no means implies the
capacity to write about it intelligently in
the present.
* * *
“Shrewsbury”: The latest edition of “Wis-
dom’ registers high elation over the success
of Chapman’s men, and compares their
triumphal progress with that of Warner’s
1911 side, which included that great pair of
bowlers F. R. Foster and Syd Barnes, to
say nothing of Rhodes, Woolley and Jack
Hearne. The comparison is ill-judged, for
neither in batting nor bowling can this side
compare with its predecessor. Chapman in-
vaded Australia in one of the poorest cricket
years the country has known, and a team
has had to be constructed out of new
material, practically under fire. Warner’s
side were up against such batsmen as
Trumper, Bardsley, Macartney, Armstrong,
Ransford, and such bowlers as Tib Cotter
at his best and W. J. Whitty. Australia
was a mighty good all-round side during
that tour, and most of the players added
experience of Test cricket to playing ability.
(Continued on page 37.)
THE TIMESAVERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Into the discard with your bats and balls,
Your pads and gloves and all the other
gear!
Tuck them away, your Bradmans and your
Walls,
Your champs, in posse! For they won’t,
it's clear,
Be wanted for another half a year
To show their prowess or display their
powers.
Football again holds sway without a
peer—
And it’s all over in a cuppler hours.
What are your cricket games but dismal
crawls
That drearer grow each year and yet
more drear,
With willow tapping leather till it palls,
Stands bored to death and yawning, tier
on tier,
Exasperated crowds that gibe and jeer
And hurl invective at the field in showers!
Would footer patrons stand for that? No
fear.
They want results within a cuppler hours.
Up with the flying bladder that, enthrals,
The Rugger oval or the Soccer sphere!
Comes Football with its flutters, flings and
falls,
Its clash of combatants in fleet career.
Here is no “God-send-Sunday” atmo-
sphere,
No sitting in the splice that galls and sours.
It’s go your hardest and your heftiest
here—
And it’s all over in a cuppler hours.
Off stage, you flannelled fools! A week or
near
Your best attended tug-of-war devours.
Forward, you muddied oafs, ’mid yell and
cheer!
For this, if nothing else, I hold you dear:
At least you finish in a cuppler hours.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


.r*
m
A
«
r S,
0
thttl
m
READY
Hite greater
HU
*ESSEX
Every advancement suggested by the experience of
1,000,000 Super Six owners, is incorporated in the
new Greater Hudson.
New radiator is higher, wider and deeper, with broad cap that
fits snugly to the shell. Radiator shutters, which, you may recall,
were pioneered by Hudson, remain vertical. From higher bonnet,
with double bank of louvres, mouldings sweep gracefully back
the full length of car. Ample mud-guards are lacquered in
prevailing body color of each car. Radiator shell, lamps, cowl
saddle and other bright work are permanently protected by
chromium plating.
Right front mud-guard built with well and carrier for spare tyre.
An option permits same equipment on both sides at extra cost,
if desired. Stout, well designed luggage rack at the rear. Many
options of colours and special equipment are available. Consult
your dealer for details.
ALWAYS GREAT—NOW GREATER—
WITH 64 IMPROVEMENTS.
HUDSON—S Balloon Tyres
Standard Equipment.
HUDSON—I22in. Wheel Base.
Coupe (Imported Body) £535
Standard Sedan (Imported Body) . . 535
Landau Sedan (Imported Body) . . . . 610
Prices at Some Points Slightly Higher.
AT THESE PRICES
WHAT CAN MATCH IT?
ESSEX—S Balloon Tyres Standard Equipment.
NEW ESSEX.
Tourer (Australian Body) £290
Standard Sedan (Australian Body) . . 365
Standard Sedan (Imported Body) . . .. 399
Coupe (Imported Body) . . . . . . . . 385
Town Sedan (Imported Body) (with
bumper bars) 420
Prices at Some Points Slightly Higher.
SEVEN BODY TYPES—
-76 IMPROVEMENTS, including
24% greater power—over 70 miles an hour-
hydraulic shock absorbers all around—effective
double-action, four-wheel brakes, the efficiency of
which is not affected by water or mud, and which
permit positive car control by the slightest foot
pressure—larger, roomier bodies—seats easily ad-
justable to comfortable driving position—electric
gas and oil gauge—instant starting, regardless of
weather—new radiator, with shutters, of course—
all bright parts chromium plated—new, easier
steering—greater economy in fuel and oil.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
V/HATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
MOTORS LIMITED.,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
AUTOS LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
In Infancy.
ď
Food
Kelt. Tit A 1)8 MARK.
A’MJ t
When mother is unable
to nurse baby, the best food
is fresh cows’ milk, suitably
modified. Benger’s has
proved itself to be one of
the best of milk modifiers.
Send (or Benger’s Booklet, post free,
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.,
350, George Street, SYDNEY.
6 Yeast Builds
■»... Resistance *
IBUT IT MUST BE CREAM OF YEAST ]
8g
I
1 ' \ •• ’
m
F
m
U
IP ROFESSOR DR. PAUL REYHER, world-famous Scientist and Lecturer, is thus
widely reported : “ The medicinal uses of yeast are many-sided. There is a high percentage
of Vitamin Bin yeast .. . Vitamin B bears a very close relation to the proper functioning
of the nervous system. It also improves the appetite... promotes growth and raises the
body’s power of resistance to every kind of infection .., One can see, therefore, that yeast
contains a remarkable healing factor.”
Note the word “ contains ” at the end
of the statement. It is important, for
only part of the yeast is vital. Cream of
Yeast contains the purest concentrated
yeast with extremely valuable medicinal
additions, making it more costly to
produce than a plain yeast medicine.
Hundreds of thousands of doctors pre-
scribe the constituents of Cream of
Yeast to every one prescribing plain
brewers’ yeast ! Cream of Yeast is
used by famous people. More Cream
of Yeast is sold than all other yeast
medicines combined. Cream of Yeast
is reliable and SAFE. Cream of Yeast
gives practically immediate relief from
headaches, depression, nerve troubles,
colds, sleeplessness, stomach pains,
gastritis and complexion defects —plain
brewers’ yeast cannot do this. Therefore,
you must have genuine Cream of Yeast
—the kind that is fast driving ineffective
ordinary yeast tablets off the market—
the kind that gives you better health
at once , when you need
it, and at very little cost.
IT MUST BE
Lream
Cream of Yeast is sold
bv Chemists and Stores
24 Tablets, 1/11. 48
Tablets, 3/6. 125 Tab-
lets, 5/9. Get a Pack-
age to-day and try it 1
of Yeast
if any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
The Ins and Outs
“Tenth Slip”; England’s skipper, Percy
Chapman, was put through his facings by
the interviewers on his arrival in Maoriland,
and delivered himself of the rather astonish-
ing statement that the best team Australia
produced against his men in the Tests was
the first tit Brisbane. It certainly was the
best possible example of the sort of team
that should not have been picked, but pos-
sibly Chappy was trying to exalt his own
side by lauding the collection of ancients
as supermen. He was nearer the truth
when he added that, taken all through, there
was far less difference between the teams
than the results indicated. He was too tact-
ful to point out that probably Australia’s
villainous catching, all through the series,
was the outstanding cause of the home side’s
downfall.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: The wiiul-up meeting of the
Queensland Cricket Association almost sank
to Parliamentary level when a delegate sug-
gested compensating players out of work for
wages they might have earned while playing
cricket. He did not point out how a man
out of work could earn any wages, and
another delegate snorted that, in any
case, the Association was not a benevolent
institution. Then the trouble started, but, to
the disappointment of everyone but the prin-
cipals, it fizzled out in an atmosphere of
withdrawals and apologies.
❖ * * *
“Hotham”: Playing for Praliran, fast-
bowler Wallace took the whole 10 Carlton
wickets for 61 runs in the latter’s first
innings. Only Don Blaclcie has equalled the
feat in pennant cricket. Curiously enough,
Wallace paralleled his own feat in Sydney
last year, while playing in an inter-State
Public Service match.
* * * >|!
“Winmac”: Tell “Glenelg” (B. 7/11/’2B)
and “South Oss” (B. 19/12/’2B) that
the W.A.C.A. owns an ideally situated
and well-appointed ground and has £lO,OOO
solidly invested. The present prosperity of
this association is a tribute to the energy
and loyalty of the late Jim Farley.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: That our old friend Jean
Borotra is far from being the back number
some have been alleging he is was shown
in America the other day, when the little
Basque trounced Francis Hunter in the final
of the American covered-courts champion-
ship by three sets to one. Hunter had his
revenge in the doubles, when he and Tilden
outed Borotra and the veteran Washburn,
also by 3 to 1.
❖ * * *
“Cut Shot”: The decision of the Aus-
tralian tennis panjandrums not to challenge
for this year’s Davis Cup has by no
means met with the approval of tennis-
players generally. Lack of funds cannot be
given as an excuse, for the Federal body
made a pot of money out of the French visit
and has been sitting on the lid of the cash-
box ever since. Even Tasmania’s suggestion
that Australia should challenge as a matter
of course every two years was scouted, and
the present indefinite atmosphere allowed to
continue. To be deterred from sending a
team because it is not strong enough to win
is asinine, and, what is worse, mighty poor
sportsmanship, and one which, if indulged
in by other nations, would limit the entries
to America and France at the best. It was
the courage and sportsmanship of France in
sending her players out year after year to
be licked and learn the game in the process
that led to her present supremacy.
Footbrawl
J. J. Liston, just appointed president of
the Victorian Football Association in succes-
sion to the late J. G. Aikman, has been one
of the stalwarts of Williamstown club for
30 years, and a mighty upholder of the
Association against the inroads of the League,
which have done much to dim its one-time
effulgence. A life member of the Association,
he is a well-known figure in racing also,
and is on the Williamstown R.C. committee.
* * * *
S.A. Football League holds to its old
fancy for lawyers to control it, and has re-
elected W. A.-Magarey president, O’H'alloran,
K.C., chairman, and Eric Millhouse his
deputy. The annual meeting gave special
attention to the city district teams, steadily
weakened by warehouse-building that pushes
population out into the suburbs. West Adel-
aide has already been given the adjoining
country right down to the sea; and now
“South.” to keep it alive, gets slices of far-
out territory from the populous Norwood and
Sturt.
* * * *
“Gate”: The N.S.W. Rugby League seems
filled with the zeal of the reformer this
season, and not by any means too soon.
Many of the officials have been slung into
the discard. After last season’s brawls
and bloodshed, the League evidently feels
that it must tighten up the bonds of
discipline, which is as it should be. The
old leaven still works, however, as was shown
by a request from the Balmain club that the
press should be excluded in future from all
meetings dealing with foul play and kindred
incidents, such as those in which Balmain
was particularly prominent last season.
*'* * *
“Gabba”: The Brisbane Rugby League,
which has been declared a noxious weed or
its professional football equivalent by the
State organisation, riposted in telling fashion
by inviting the famous aboriginal team from
the native reserve at Palm Islands, in North
Queensland, to play in Brisbane during
Easter. The darkies are a great draw-card
in the North, and for the State body to
declare them black, as it has done their
hosts, would be an obvious superfluity.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: Rucrby Union players at the
Australian universities have a treat in front
of them this season, for a team selected
from them will leave Sydney on May 17
for a tour of Maoriland, where sides from
the individual and combined universities
will be tackled. For years Sydney Uni. has
undertaken a similar trip on its own account,
entertaining a combined M.L. team in return.
This time players from Melbourne and Bris-
bane will be included. The tour should do
a lot towards driving home the advantages
of the amateur code in Brisbane.
“Hooker”: A pity the N.S.W. Rugby
Union did not see its way to admit the
Police Club to the grade competitions. Up
to the present, the practice has been for the
club to tackle the senior Union side having
the bye each Saturday, and the John Hops
have shown very good form in these games.
The chief objection to their inclusion seems
to have been that it w r ould intrude on the
district scheme, but the argument is a weak
one. There are already two non-district
teams in grade football, University and
Y.M.C.A., and another little lot wouldn’t do
the Union any harm. However, the question
is to receive further consideration.
* * * *
“Swan”: The last public appearance of
the English cricketers in Australia was in
a Soccer match at Perth against a local
side for a special cup, which is to be a
perpetual trophy to oe played for whenever
an English cricket team visits Westralia.
The English side included Heiulren, once an
Irish international, but the local men won
easily by 5 goals to 2.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hotham”: Victoria boasts something un-
usual in the way of golf-courses, that belong-
ing to the Moondai Country Club, which is
now nearing completion near Marysville. Two
well-stocked trout streams wind in and out
of the fairways, and those who come to golf
can remain to fish, if they feel like it. It
may seem fascinating, but has its alarm-
ing aspects. Probably there are no two forms
of sport, which so lend themselves to termino-
logical inexactitude as golf and fishing. The
nineteenth hole of that club, towards the end
of a perfect day, when the golfers and fisher-
men are getting well into their stride and
the umpteenth round of drinks, should be
something to write home about.
E. TYLDESLEY, member of a famous
cricketing family, who did not show his
best form in Australia.
“Hamilton”: Queensland is holding its
annual match for the A.I.F. Cup on April
27, and the conditions afford a lesson in good
taste to the authorities controlling the kin-
dred N.S.W. event. Whereas the latter limit-
competitors to “members” of golf clubs, and
insist on barring professionals, the North-
erners’ motto is “Let ’em all come.” Their
tourney is open to all members of the A.1.F.,
Maoriland, Canadian, American and Imperial
Forces who are members of clubs affiliated
with the Queensland Golf Association, while
all bona fide golf professionals following
their profession in the State are also eligible.
* * * *
“Brassey”: The new course of the Parra-
matta (N.S.W.) Golf Club at Blacktowm is
nearly ready for play, and is to be opened
shortly with appropriate orations and liba-
tions combined. It has been christened St.
Andrews, as a delicate compliment to the
patron saint of golf, and the occasion will
be further celebrated by an open-stroke
handicap with attractive prizes, and purses
for the professional competitors. The club
will retain its old title, however.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Touching on the long
driving controversy in recent Bulletins, the
case of a couple of American players who
have been achieving merit in that direction
may be worth considering. One is an
amateur, Finlay, a Harvard under-
graduate, who recently averaged 295 yards
for 14 consecutive drives. The other is
Clarence Gamber, a professional at the
famous Pinehurst course, to whom hitting a
ball 350 yards is a commonplace happening.
It is interesting to note that neither of these
men is anywhere near the championship
class. That goes to prove the truth of the
axiom that mastery of the long shot is only
the beginning of golf—it is the work in
approaching and on the green itself that
invariably pays best in the end.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: The slightly sozzled
gentleman in the tram wanted to talk golf.
“Ever been in a bunker?” he asked the
neighbor on his right. “My oath !” responded
the other. “Makes you swear, doesn’t it?” said
the golf enthusiast. “Sw r ear! I should say!
I remember once when there was a fire, and
going through the smoke and heat was some-
thing terrific.” The sozzled person was
interested but puzzled. “I never met another
golfer with an experience like that,” he
said. “Golfer be hanged!” said the tale-
teller. “I’m a ship’s fireman.”
* * * *
“Hoylake”: A notable personality in
British golf has holed out, at 59. in the per-
son of John Low, who learned the game at
St. Andrews in the days of “Old Tom”
Morris. He played for Cambridge in the
matches with Oxford for several years in
the 1890’srand was later captain of the his-
torical Blaekheath club, while on several
occasions he reached the semi-finals and final
of the amateur championship, only going
down to the famous H'arold Hilton by a putt
in 1901. He was a great golf administrator,
and was chairman of the Buies of Golf Com-
mittee for some years, while his books on
the game are accepted authorities.


PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARtTISTS. DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
BRITISH
wm
\
•nun
Perfect i cm
PINK RUBBER
“THE AGE ”
Established 185 J/.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
If your sales in Victoria have not reached
the high level which the quality and price of
your products demand, include
“THE AGE”
in future allocations for the State. By this
means your sales message will enter the homes
and offices of
123,533
daily subscribers
who have confidence in the publication which
for 74 years has been the BUSINESS BUILDER
that discriminate advertisers have long esteemed
and valued.
“THE AGE” PUBLISHES OVER
1,000,000 ADVERTISEMENTS
ANNUALLY.
Advertising Rates on application to the principal
Service Agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
If any illustration in The Bueeetin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Restful, quiet ami cool—open to the Summer Sea Breezes. Delightfully situated with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service.
Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Summer Tariff from 5 guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines). Management M. E. BURROWS.
đ
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NOW NEATLY CASED at same price!
A strongly-made grained-leather case is now provided with every Plurn
Razor, at no increase in cost. With its blade set to perfection guaran-
teed and kept in order for two years free —the Plum Razor shaves cleanly,
easily, quicklyt—leaves the most delicate skin smooth and comfortable.
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Real Ivory Handle 21/- ~
SiitinlmOd clnuble cum? tier with pair.
7-day Sets—7 Razors in Case.
Black, 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory, 140/-
Pont free to mry ucldrras,
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
SAFETY
RAZOR
Made of a special steel with extra
keen edges, being specially suited
for stiff beards.
KIRBY. BEARD 8.0? Ltd
► @ Vpj| @ €
pniD , Baav3aA9ai>i
KIRBY-
BEARD
r RAZORS
give full protection without ob-
structing the cutting edges. Easy
to clean and require no adjustment.
Kirby, Beard & Co., Ltd., Ravenhurst Works, Birming-
ham, England. Also London, Redditch and Paris.
Australian Agent: H. E. UTTLEY.
Margaret House, 282 George Street, Sydney.
l/se a BEARD”to shaye a bcard
FOR ALL SPORT
BUY
THE SPORTING GLOBE
The Leading Australian Authority with the largest
staff of Sporting Experts and Special Representatives
in all States. The staff includes: —
“MUSKET” The Turf
“BAIL” Cricket
W. S. SHARLAND Football
PAT O’HARA WOOD Tennis
J. J. MAHER Cycling
J. M. DILLON Golf
A. L. DOBBIE Rowing
TOM MOBLEY Coursing
MAURIE COLLINS Bowls
H. O. BROOKE Yachting
New South Wales edition available—
every Thursday, price 3d.
G HYATT’S
SAFETY TRUSS
d
FOR
COMFORT
DURABILITY STRENGTH
WE stock and make to order, trusses
for all occupations. Light, comfort-
able, washable, and easily adjust-
able, showing considerable advantage over
all other makes. Single Truss as illustrated,
30/-; double 40/-.
Write or call for free Truss Pamphlet.
GUYATT & CO.
Dept. **. 257 a George Street, Sydney.
LIGHT AND HEAT THE COLEMAN WAY
o
Have This Better Light in
Your Home, Too
You’ll find the QUICK-HTE Lamp ideal
for every light need throughout the house.
Always ready with 300 candle-power of
pure white, cheerful brilliance. Brighter
than 20 old-style kerosene lamps. Clean,
convenient, safe. More than a million
in use.
Coleman Quick-Lite
“The Sunshine of the Night.”
No wicks to clean; no chimneys to
wash ; no daily filling. This beauti-
ful lamp and gasoline for a year cost
much less than just the kerosene
needed for an oil lamp. Just the
light for reading and sewing.
PRICE 75/-
COLEMAN QUICK-LITE CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
185 William Street, Melbourne, Cl, Victoria.
718 Harris Street, Ultimo, Sydney, N.S.W.
31 Bower Building, Charles Street, Adelaide, S.A.
The Small-Cost Heater
ivith a Big tLot of Heat,
Heats like Sunshine—a penetrat-
ing heat that warms and cheers.
fff
L
a
You Can Cook Price
on It, Too! £5/10/-
Use it upstairs, downstairs —all
around the house for quick heat*
inR and quick cooking.
rolonian Quick-Lite Lantern is
the “Light of a Thousand Uses”
for out-of-dtoors night work. It
is just the thing for night, plough-
ing, harvesting, feeding, repair-
ing, ehoring or any sort of after-
sundown work about the farm.
It is used by liverymen, night watch-
men, garage men, and to light up ailing
stations, tent-shows, street stands, pub-
lic meetings, etc. The Quick-Lite Lan-
tern is a necessary item for camping,
touting, night fishing, night picnics,
hunting or nnv sort of pleasure trip
where light is needed.
The light is protected by a mica chim-
ney which makes it wind proof, storm
proof and bug proof. It won’t blow out.
Gives a steady bright 300-candlepower
light, in any kind of weather. Can be
used in a thousand places where the
common kerosene lantern is useless.
Price - - - 65/-
and- - - - 75/-


0
Q
RECK
W
Ensure efficient running by fitting B.E.S.
SPAItK PLUGS. A type for every car, truck,
tractor, cycle, aeroplane and marine engine.
Fully guaranteed. All garages. Price 4/6.
Manufactured by
Australian Spark Plugs Pty., Ltd.
562 Spencer Street, Melbourne, C.i.
’Phones: F 4947, F696L.
W. W. GREENER
GUNS
ARE SURE KILLERS
Wholesale Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE, Cl.
Chains-Chains -Chains- Chains
d
Australian-made —better than Imported
Support Your Secondary Industries
Non-skid, fcand-forged chains lor a Ford to a
7-ton truck.
Chains for Collieries.
Chains for Brickyards.
Pit-cage chains.
Lashing chains.
Messenger and Steering-wheel chains.
Sling, Snigging, Plough and leading chains.
Roller and Conveyor chains of all descriptions.
Mooring and Ships’ Cable chains.
Made from best Staffordshire iron.
The only complete chain works in the Common
•wealth.
All chains tested to Lloyd’s standard and
certificates issued.
BLOOMERS CHAINS, LTD.,
BRISBANE.
ď
M 2 7
When your friend is complimented on his socks and
says that they are "Merino-Knit,” do you say "That’s
just what I wear ? ” If you do, you are wearing the best
in quality, colour and design. "Merino-Knit” Cardigans
and Sweaters are just as pleasing and satisfactory
as " Merino-Knit ” Men’s Hose.
RAMEN
ERINO-KNIT
"RAMENO" Brand
Men’s Half Hose
m
Wa
iw»V'
’’Merino-Knit” Half Hose and Golf
Hose are made of Pure Australian
Merino Wool entirely, or, in the
lighter weight Half Hose, of Merino
and the best English Artificial
Silk. The colours are carefully
chosen to tone with present-
day fashions for men.
’’Merino-Knit” Half Hose is
made to fit snugly round the
ankles and firmly on the legs,
ensuring the acme of comfort
and smartness.
Ask /or "Merino-Knit"
Garments Stocked by
all good Mercers.
MERINO WOOLLEN MILLS
PTY. LTD.
COLLINGWOOD. VIC
/>
the," VENUS'
plans the World
The first rough suggestion—the skilful
and accurate working out, the sharp
detailed drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
constructive effort, call for the use of VENUS
PENCILS. Whether it be for the building of a
battle-ship or the design of a simple household
article, the pencil is the first requirement: the
VENUS the first pencil.
17 Blacklead Degrees 68-9 H sd. each -4/9 per dozen, Super Copying (Medium Sc Hard) 6d.
each - 5/9 per dozen. Venus Copying (Medium & Hard) 4d. each • 3/9 per dozen.
Car and Cycle
“Shep”: The prompt decision of the Day-
tona speed merchants to ban further record-
breaking attempts for a year, after seeing
Bible dashed to death in the Triplex car,
doesn’t come as a surprise when other
possible contestants were witnesses of the
tragedy. Segrave wisely got in early in
cutting out any more dashes along the beach
this year, and, as AVliite’s other drivers
were amongst the first to reach the wreckage,
they could hardly have been expected to
face the deadly Daytona sands for some
time to come, even if another car was
forthcoming. Segrave and White’s other
drivers should have been miles away from
the course listening to details over the wire-
less, as nothing smashes the nerves of even
the hardest man quicker than seeing another
crash badlv in an effort he is to undertake.
The Royal Air Force learnt this lesson in
training pilots.
* * * *
“Whizz”: After a merciful respite of some
months, the periodical business of establish-
ing new speed records between Melbourne
and Sydney, and vice versa, is again
threatening the inoffensive public. The
latest is a motor-cycle and side-car record —
there are infinite variations of the dreary
and dangerous theme—for the Melbourne-
Sydney run. D. Bain and C. J. Weathcrby,
with the help of a 996-c.c. A.J.S. machine,
cut the 565 miles journey down to 13hr.
31min., this beating the previous side-car
record by 64 minutes and the best solo
performance by 10. Pedestrians on the
route seem to have sustained no casualties,
but how long the luck will last in this
respect no man knoweth.
* * *
“Colonel Damurize”: I am glad to note
that the seed I have planted is springing
up in the most unexpected places. The
British Motor-Cycle Club has decided to
bar women riders from taking part in events
under its jurisdiction, on several grounds.
I select two of these as favorite arguments
of my own on this very important topic.
One is that men would be expected by the
females “to show chivalry and assistance,
and in doing so jeopardise their own
chances.” Another is that, in any case, the
game “can get on very well without the
ladies.” As regards the first, I may say
that I have risked a burst blood-vessel on
more than one occasion in golf when I
have noted an associate member surrep-
titiously pick up a bunkered ball and throw
it out, remarking airily, after she had
climbed out, that it was a really wonderful
recovery, considering she only used a mashie
instead of a niblick. I would amend the.
other to read that any game “would be
perfect without the female of the species”
—most dangerous of the carnivora.
* * * #
“Sprocket”: A great cycling feat was put
up at Melbourne Motordrome when the
Dutch rider Cor Blekemolen reeled off a
motor-paced 10 miles in 9min. 3 l-ssec.,
breaking Victorian Hubert Opperman’s
figures of 9min. 30sec. made on the same
track three years ago. Opperman’s time
has been standing as a world’s record since
it was made, and the Dutchman’s perfor-
mance in knocking nearly 27 seconds off it
stamps him as an exceptional rider. Using
a high gear, he was on the roller throughout
the race, his highest speed being 67 m.p.h.
sj: $ $ $
“Outboard”: Major Segrave added to his
nerve-wracking victory in the motor-car
speed championship by annexing the title
for motor speed-boats, though it was a
narrow “points” decision. In the first heat
of the contest lie won with Miss England
from Gar Wood’s Miss America VII., the
steering-gear of the latter breaking dow r n.
In the deciding heat the American boat
finished ahead of the English craft, but the
final score of the latter was a point ahead
of. the- American. In a subsequent speed
trial over a straight course—the earlier
event had been made oyer a run with sharp
turns where the superiority of the little
English craft in turning told its tale—Wood
put up a new world’s record for speed-boats
with a run at the rate of 93.123 m.p.h.,
cracking his own last year’s figures of 92
m.p.h. It should be noted that in the race
round the turns neither boat could better
60 m.p.h.
Miscellaneous
“Blade”: As expected, Mosmao wound up
the N.S.W. rowing season far ahead of all
competitors. It has now equalled Sydney's
long-standing record of eight, successive
championships, and has beaten the best club
crews in Australia at Ilenley-qn-Yarra for
two years running. If the club can take
the King's Cup at Perth it will ha\ r e put up
an unparalleled record in Australian rowing.
* * . * *
“Erka”: One of the lightest boaJ;s ever
designed for a sculler is being built” m Syd-
ney for Olympic champion Pearce by George
Towns. The boat weighs only 251 b., and its
sides are l-16th,of an inch in thickness. It is
as sharp as an arrow, so to give as little
resistance as possible. Just 261 feet in
length, it is entirely without ribs, but
is constructed so scientifically as to support
Pearce’s weight and to withstand the force
of his powerful strokes. It is to be used on
the Swan River in May in the inter-State
sculling championship.
* * Sic SCS
“Runt”: The season for open-boat sailing,
a sport for which Sydney Harbor has a
world-wide reputation, closed last week in
an atmosphere of recrimination, some of the
18-footer owners finding fault with the
handicapping. One leading owner took such
objection to the time allowances allotted to
his rivals that he withdrew his craft, the
11. C. Press, from the last three races. In
spite of this she filled top place in the list
for the season, her prize-money totalling
£96. as against £9O credited to her nearest
rival. Advance. _ Quite a good lot of cash is
expended on prizes in these sailing events
during the season, but a racing eighteen is
as expensive a craft to run as most others
of the sex. The lucre won invariably goes
back into the boat and her gear, together
with a great deal more.
* * * *
"Bias”: I, too. can testify to the innate
if unsuspected ferocity of bowlers (P,.
20/3/’29). Once I was sent by a Sydney
journal to report a highly important bowls
match, the expert who was accustomed
to that sort of thing having succumbed to
the hospitalities of a welcome to the visiting
team the night before. I arrived very late,
and, halting by a rubicund old gentleman
who was standing at one end of the green
with a bowl in his hand, explained what I
was there for, and asxed, “What’s the tally.”
“Tally!” unexpectedly yelped the ancient,
whipping round to a stony-faced mob of
experts who lined the “banks” ; “tally ! Hey,
listen to this, will you? The coot must take
us for a lot of blasted wharf-laborers.”
$ * * *
“Shrewsbury”: The hoodoo which Cam-
bridge athletes seem to exercise over their
Oxford confreres was continued in the inter-
University sports which followed the boat-
race, the Light Blues winning by 7 events
to 4. For the first time the meeting was
held at Stamford Bridge, the historic Queen’s
Club arena having been thrown to the tennis-
players. Australia figured well, J. R.
Mann, of Geelong, winning the 120 hurdles
in the good time of 15 9-10 sec. Another
Geelongite, ,T. I*. Wallace, was third in the
shot putt, and yet another, A. E. Young,
took second place in the high jump. All re-
presented Cambridge. W. N. Harrison, the
Queensland Rhodes Scholar, was the only
Australian to win a point for Oxford, with
a third in the long jump, in which lie
covered 23ft. lfin.
* * * *
“Elgin”: When Donaldson, Postle and
Day were at Ivalgoorlie collecting the big
“sugar,” a well-known ped. was brought up
from Perth and rung in as a maiden
abo. He stepped on to the limit
mark, plus a good coat of dye. Another
dusky competitor. Teddy Tnckum, tried to
blow the gaff on his “colored” cobber. “You
‘■neakit blackfellow lingo?" queried Teddy.
The dyed one merely sniffed. Teddy then
complained to the starter, “That pfellcr
blackest blackfellow I ever seen; not even
smell like one.” The “ring-in” won by yards,
and all bets were paid before the stipes smelt
a rat.
>i> * * *
“Hauptman Potztausend”: The irruption
of the female of the species into manly sports
has not spared Germany, once famous
for the submissivencss of the irrational sex
to their male superiors. The other day the
German Women’s Hockey Association issued
a ukase announcing that shorts were ver-
hoten to members, and the use of skirts in-
sisted on. To this a reply has been returned
by many of the clubs that not only will they
A. J. TERDICH . the Victorian motorist,
who won the 200-mile Grand Prix road-
race on Phillip Island.
sop the association in Heligoland first, but
shorts will bo worn shorter this season.
Unheeding creatures ! There may be females
of some nationalities whose appearance in
shorts is not calculated to arouse ribald
comment. The German women cannot be
included among them.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: In spite of the so-called break-
up of the Mount Crawford (S.A.) polo
team, Angas and two of the Murrays having
dropped out, Elliott Murray, of the old four,
led a side made up by the Keynes brothers
and Lilliecrapp, and just beat Adelaide
(Gordon Law Smith, R. M. Cudmore, Bar-
ritt and Porter) by 6 goals to 5 for the
Rarr Smith Cup, South Australia’s big polo
event. Adelaide had previously beaten an
Old Geelong Grammar team (Landale, Mann
and two Fairbairns) 9 to 8.
:S * * *
“Ranelagh” : Londoners are enthusing over
the new sport of indoor polo introduced from
America. The game is played under cover,
the chief arena at present being a large
riding school at Roehampton, run by a com-
pany. The ground is naturally smaller than
the open field, and three players turn out
on each side instead of the customary four,
and as the ball is never out of bounds fun
is fast and furious. The ball is leather
covered with an air centre, instead of the
usual wooden one. Many of the crack
players are going in for the innovation, which
can be played in the winter, and new
buildings are being run up to cater for the
craze.
* H: % *
“The Gaffer”: The decision of the N.S.W.
Rugby Union to hold off from the Olympic
Council until it has at least been rehabili-
tated will be approved by everyone familiar
with the processes of that body. Everyone
will agree, too, with the opinion of David
Mauglian, K.C., one of the Union officials,
that the time has come to consider whether
the Olympic business is w r orth this country’s
while. Apart from the quarrelling and bitter
feeling which has attended every Olympiad
since the revival of the Games, a notable
feature of them is the number of amateurs
who immediately become professionals as
soon as the publicity of successful perform-
ance has guaranteed them a good market for
their athletic wares.


Under t
Royal
Warrant
«■]
iP t
Vintage 1020.
CHAMPAGNE
Aiietrnlaalan Agent»—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
a
it
RH>
CMAMrAC**
REIMS
To H.M.
Kino
George V
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asrerita—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
WENTWORTH
Unanimously voted the Coolest Place in Sydney, it is the
choice of the discriminating hostess for the entertaining of her
guests, afternoon or evening.
On Mondays the whole of the Ballroom and Palm Court is
reserved for Bridge Players. Other afternoons, Lyn Christie
and his rhythmic symphonists make fly the hours between
3 and 5.30.
A perfect cuisine, exhilarating music, a satin-smooth floor
what more could you have to make your Dinner or Supper
Party an unqualified success?
Order Wmes before 6 p.m. For Tables, Ring BWd 361
12 MaeleaySt.
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT
(Located within the City Boundary, seven
minutes from G.P.0 .)
The New Private Hotel,* consisting
of 150 Rooms, is now open and
features Two-, Three- and Four-
room Suites, each with Bath; also
Single and Double Rooms. Central
Heating, Running Water and
'Phones installed in each room.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views.
Weekly inclusive tariff,
from £5/5 -
Daily, from £1
Telephone: F 2 161 (8 lines) ; Tele-
graphic address: Fifmac, Syd-
ney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
SHEER
CHIFFON
SILK
HOSIERY
With Easter came the Show, and with the
Show came the crowds, the country visitors
prominent as ever. The men whiskered
(well, often enough to be noticed), the
women sunbrowned, the kiddies sturdy
and bright-eyed. There is a serenity
about people from the country, an im-
pression of unhurried nerves, that is
cheering to behold —witness the smile
of the city which greets Dad in the picture
that artist Hugliie Alaclean made for this
Letter. But it wasn’t all country people
who came to town. The A.J.C. was running
a horse show at Randwick that was as much
a magnet as the Show. Owners and punters
besides the usual flight of social butterflies
packed the hotels. The big stores were
caught in a mad frenzy of last-minute shop-
pers, and so lavishly were they buying that
the girl who dropped in to get a pair of
gloves felt about as important as the girl
who found herself asking for a mascot from
a Rolls Iloyce salesman at. the Show. There
were laughing, bustling crowds on the streets,
in all the dance places of renown, at the
pictures, in the theatres and, above all, at the
Show. People, people everywhere, and not
a drop to drink after six, unless you had
taken the necessary precautions.
By Wednesday the great Show had begun
to be screened for the public, all except the
Hall of Agriculture, the doors of which were
still tightly closed at half-past three. On
the pathways outside men and women sat
or stood stoically waiting for the great un-
barring, while in a booth near by a fruity
baritone from the discs of one of Air. Edi-
son’s inventions implored Authority to “Open
the Doors of the Temple.” “Mark Lane!
Reckon it should be Nark Lane,” this
Letter heard one berry-brown fledgling
mutter to another as she gazed at the name-
plate on the brick wall. “Come on, Ethel,
we’ll go and look at the lady glass-blower.”
Probably Miss Impatience came back; if she
didn’t she missed a wondrous composition
in still-life. Here were apples rosy and
green in towering pyramids, not to speak of
an Australia outlined with the fruit, the
happy green of Granny Smiths forming the
surrounding oceans and apples in all de-
grees of rosiness marking off the different
States. Wheat and wool, cheese and honey
and golden butter smiled back at the smiling
multitude who viewed the plenty of the land
they live in.
Around the ring paced the Clydesdale with
his ballet-skirted ankles; prize cattle, four-
square and beef to the hoof; Ayrshires on
whose parchment sides the landscape had
imprinted itself. Sturdy Guernseys, Jerseys
and Aldcrneys flicked a knowing look at
vice-royalty and the orilookers. Over a
hedge of silver cups and gleaming crystal
Sir Dudley de Chair in Thursday afternoon’s
rain declared the Show open—his fifth
appearance in this role. The ring was amaz-
ingly massed with pacing cattle, with satin
horses and with upright riders, the finest of
them all, of course, being this Letter’s pet
mounted police. Among the enthusiastic on-
lookers were the G.-G. Stonehavens, she in
heather mixture tweeds. Lady de Chair con-
trasted sapphire-blue frocking and grey furs.
The Hore Iluthvens, South Australia’s vice-
regals, caught the eye, Lady Hore Ruthven
being a striking study in black and white.
Civic Commissioner Garlick’s lady and Airs.
Bavin added raincoats to the groups of which
Priminister Bruce and R.A.S. president
Sam Hordern with his handsome lady were
outstanding ornaments.
Absolutely intoxicating was Tooth’s
Brewery display. On top a White Horse
waltzed blandly on hind legs, while giant
bottles of the brew revolved persistently at
each of the stall’s four corners. Another eye-
entraheer was the sign hung out by the lady
glass-blower, who was depicted on a banner
above her booth surrounded by the kings of
Egypt, the birds that fly and the fish that
swim which she can create at a breath.
Then there was one proclaiming the Human
Snake, while opposite was the Pygmy—all
the unusual gathered for the interest of
the usual. When you found the Flower
Show (it was upstairs in the not-so-well-
known Lecture Hall) it snared your atten-
tion for at least half an hour. The ferns
and foliage murmured of shy, elusive bush
and garden delights; the pink and yellow and
red roses diffused a fragrance not unwelcome
after a visit to the pig pavilion, while the
dahlias and zinnias wore a vivid autumn
glory. .
Svelte and felt are fashion’s hallmark this
winter, even as last, so every woman who
went to Randwick on Saturday thrust her
head into felt and her figure into garments
slim of cut. If the figure was willowy, so
much the better; if not, the owner depended
on a clever tailor to see her through. And
the tailors rose nobly to the occasion, with
tweed, broadcloth and repp, so that the 17
years of lean and the TO years of plenty
looked not very dissimilar from the back view.
The day of the Doncaster was silken soft, with
a warm, blue-grey sky in the afternoon, much
to the discomfort of those who had gone
forth upholstered in fur and velvet. Satur-
day’s display of this spotted, triangled and
much-patterned fabric made you wonder :f
it isn't meant for indoor consumption only
and shouldn’t be covered with a coat in the
broad light of day. Not that its wearers
on Saturday could have borne another stitch
on them. The nicest things at the races
were the jumper suits. One in daffodil tones
was worn under a tailored black coat with
a deep collar of golden skunk. Fur appeared
mostly as the collars and cuffs of the ensemble
coat, and there was a mild vogue of the
matching scarf, hat and handbag—a fashion
as yet too dear for the multitude. Suede
shoes rivalled those of snakeskin and patent,
and, verily, there is joy and comfort in every
pair.
The day was heady with vice-royalties;
no fewer than three sets of them sat aloft
and sunnedi themselves in the admiration df
the passing throng. The Governor-General's
lady was the smallest of the feminine Exes.,
Lady de Chair and Lady Hore-Ruthvon
easily overtopping her. But this Letter likes
her smile. It is shy and unofficial and was
just the right fit for her beige pink froek-
ing and soft little hat. Lady de Chair
turned out in the velvet of the moment, but
in brave colorings. It had green in it, and
mauve and pale gold, and Suggested mignon-
ette and pansies. It was made with the
SYDNEY’S SHOW-TIME WELCOME: How it looked to Dad on his first day in town.
flowing peacock back, and had a shoulder Dr.
drape in mignonette green silk; with it she
wore a grey velvet hat. Her S. Aus. Ex.
kept to her favorite brand of black and
white. A.J.C. president Colin Stephen
and Airs. Stephen walked and fed with the
G.-G. Stonehavens. Sir Dudley and Lady de
Chair entertained a large party, which in-
cluded the Bavins, the Brigadier-General
Cavendish couple (she is remembered as the
beauteous Miss Lindeman) and the nice
Mark Sheldons. A sable collar above a Per-
sian lamb coat seemed the proper base for
Airs. Cavendish’s expensive-looking profile.
Bland, beautiful and befurred walked the
statuesque Airs. Malcolm Mackellar; smart
and absolutely to the point was Mrs. Oscar
Paul’s black coat with its Persian lamb
collar; Mrs. Hugh Munro and daughter Airs.
Nivison wore smart tweeds, as did Airs.
Roy Buckland. Mrs. Warwick Fairfax
looked like a magazine-cover girl in cream
and red. Helen and Philippa Stephen and
Jean Anderson were decorative with youth
and fine clothes, and Mrs. Jack Campbell
walked with her three daughters, Airs. Rev-
nell, just back from the near East, Mrs.
Edward Alilgrove and Airs. Strath Playfair.
Ivingsford Smith wasn’t well enough to
be at the luncheon designed for him and
Flight-Lieutenant Ulm by the Atlantic
Union Oil Company at the Wentworth, but
it's to be hoped somebody pinched one of
the menu cards for him. They were most
artistic affairs, whereon soft golden clouds
drifted over a field of skyey blues. The
party was to wish the aviators a happy and
safe voyage to England in the Southern
Cross. (And as luck would have it, the
Southern Cross was forced down, owing to
petrol giving out, 200 miles from Wyndham,
North Westralia!) The table decorations
were in red and white dahlias and blue del-
phiniums, and Captain Geoffrey Hughes,
Navigator 11. A. Litchfield and the Sun’s
Campbell Jones were about the only guests
who were not, as it were, hard-boiled in oil.
Romance was at the helm when knight
AA’illiam Sowden, of Adelaide, travelled from
Colombo five years ago on the same boat
as Aliss Patsy Suttie, of Alosman. The
shipboard friendship led to orange-blossoms
yesterday, when the two were made one at
the home of the bride’s sister. Airs. Victor
S. Raves, at Clifton Gardens. The wedding
was so quiet it might be said that tin-
pair whispered their way into matrimony.
The same night’s express bore them to
Adelaide, where the bridegroom is a very
prominent citizen. At one time he was
editor and part-proprietor of tin- Register,
which has lately been bought into by Mel-
bourne Herald. Primrose georgettes and a
hat of leaf-brown tulle were the charming
color combination in which the bride faced
the ring and the book.
Her State Ex. opened the yearly councils
of the Red Crossers at Rose Hall last week.
The thunder clashed and the lightning split
the sky, but the conference refused to he
downhearted, and presently the storm dashed
on its way and the tea in the marquee on
the lawn was a great success. Addresses
were given by doctors on special medical
activities on behalf of the ex-soldier. Dr.
A. .T. Collins told of the never-ceasing
work of tin- Red Cross to stamp out T. 8.;
Bligh, who is attached to Graythwaito,
spoke of the needs of the men totally inca-
pacitated. Lady de Chair offered up a special
hallelujah to the Red Cross from the midst
of an attractive blue and silver grey outfit.
Elaine, who bore her company, was in trans-
lucent greens. Chairman Russell Sinclair
gave forth the official welcome; Airs. 11. T.
Hole, Mrs. Robert Vicars and Dame Mary
Cook were others who were heard as well
as seen at the gathering.
K.C. Il'olman’s lady goes off to join daugh-
ter Portia in England, and the Arts Club
members took the chance to give her a good-
bye party. Mrs. Holman wore her tributes
and her presentation posy with a becoming
air, in frocking of golden-brown embroid-
ered velvet. One of the afternoon’s
hostesses also chose an autumnal-brown
outfit, and the season was still further em-
phasised by the foliage and the dahlias whose
colorings, even in this climate, seem to sug-
gest a touch of frost, in the air.
Erica Morini, declared by the critics of
two countries the greatest woman violinist
of her day, is hiding like a quiet little mouse
in a flat in Green knowe-avenue, tucked
behind the noise that is Marcleay-street.
Between concerts she practises, walks, rests,
practises, rehearses and has an occasional
drive— not an exciting life for twenty-one.
The scarcity of coffee-shops, Viennese pastry
and breezes with a bit of ice slipped into
them is the worst of the faults she finds with
Sydney. She loves our skies which are
blue —her favorite color although a brunette,
and one she wears with a success
that would stagger most blondes. When
this Letter saw her the other afternoon
between rests she wore a kimono the
blue of Pekin glass in a luscious velvet.
The same color was in her Chinese-blue slip-
pers, which, however, were Paris as to heel.
The frock in which she faced her first Syd-
ney audience was of ethereal blues, a cob-
web affair, floating and long. “Blue as the
skies of Vienna,” which, she declares, are
as blue and brilliant but not so ardent as
ours.
Erica is troubled about the prevalence of
black cats in Sydney. “I meet them every-
where ; in Vienna we think that bad luck.
To meet a pig we think lucky, so I am going
to your Show on Friday or Saturday before
my first concert. There I should see as
many pigs all together as I shall see black
cats separate.” In Vienna, it seems, New
Year’s Eve is a night of great merriment,
and pigs in the flesh and in replica are
exchanged between friends as freely as drinks
are between Australians. When the Vien-
nese citizen begins to feel warm lie takes
the train up a marvellous mountain at his
doorstep. In two hours he is at the base
of snow-capped peaks, not at all bothered
by the fact that for part of the way the
railway runs sheer up through the air. This
is Erica’s favorite trip; she could do it
twice daily without batting an eyelash, and
yet she is too nervous to swim. Skating
she loves, but since the discovery of her
great talent skating is on the index for fear
of injury to her hands. In fact, all the violent
forms of sport are forbidden, so she walks
—walks 11s much as she can in the green
places. Then, because she is just like other
girls, she likes to come home to coffee and
pastry. And last week, to her delight, she
found a Viennese pastrycook, who has under-
taken to keep her flat in Onslow Gardens
supplied with the same delicacies one can
happily eat in the coffee-houses when the
winter twilight lurks icily about the streets
of Vienna, or on warm, soft afternoons when
the chestnuts which circle the city are in
flower.
The season of the theatrical cabaret is at
hand, and the charity worker is smiling her
sweetest and sleuthing the actor and actress
of the hour with intent to securing a star
name on which to revolve an afternoon
dance. St. Margaret’s committee, as usual,
got in early and secured Lewis Shaw, the
“Young Woodley” of the he-flapper play,
who came to the party and looked a little
bit shy, and a little bit interested, too, in
the interest he himself was arousing. The
good-looking Mrs. Myerson had booked him
for her table. There, too, sat the jolly May
Beatty and Gus Bluett, and this Letter saw
Laurie Beatty and Natalie Moya at the
same board, though it was hard to distin-
guish individuals in a corner where nearly
a hundred guests daubed the one hostess.
The president of the success was Mrs.
Stewart Dawson, Mrs. Malcolm McNab was
the secretary, and May Sheehan a treasurer
who looked so sweet you needn’t mind her
getting away with your ducat and doubloon.
The mannequin parade arranged by Marion
Thornton -was the star-spangled banner of
the afternoon, and Spanish atmosphere was
supplied by Elsa Seaward’s dance.
Queensland soprano Jeanette Ethelstone
will get her chance to add the hallmark of
study in Europe to her qualifications if
the Women’s Country Club kuow r s anything
about it. A testimonial fund for the singer
has already been started by the members,
and the receipts from its dance- and card-
parties will do much to swell the takings
from Jeanette’s farewell cabaret on April 9.
This will be at the Ambassadors, and already
the booking looks healthy.
A pretty little descendant of explorer Blax-
land was among the galaxy of Easter brides.
Last Tuesday Mollie Blaxland, from Mor-
peth, in a flutter of rose georgettes, claimed
her mate at the hands of Padre Lucas in
St. John’s. The old Darlinghurst church
was sprinkled with country friends for the
occasion; and Mollie, in her quaint frock,
short back and front, with swaying side
panels that reached to the ankle, and its
old-fashioned bustle-bow, looked rather like
a rose herself. A hat of rose felt, lined with
velvet of a deeper hue, was stabbed across
the frontispiece with a long slonder brooch
of brilliants. Sister Phyllis blew into tin-
wedding procession in apple-blossom pink
frock, hat and shoes. Bridegroom Alan
MacPhee, who grows cane at Lethebrook, in
North Queensland, and is the eldest son of
Mrs. W. A. MacPhee, of Bank Flats, Manly,
had chum .T. Miller for best man. Bride’s
mother and father (he’s of the Commercial
Bank in Morpeth) did the right thing by
all invited to the wedding breakfast, which
was spread in the blue-room of the Went-
worth. The lucky and popular bride received
300 presents.


HWWiHMItj
m
*
MW'
t>>
In fib and \lb
hygienic cans.
Punch a hole in the bottom of the can.
Cut around the side just under the top rim.
Out falls, in compact form, delicious meat in
clear firm jelly.
Note its delicate appetising aroma which
announces how really good it is.
Some of the reasons ? Choicest raw materials
—the solid basis of the first-class quality of
REX Pure Foods famous throughout Aus-
tralia. Then, the skill and experience you
would expect to find in a large model factory
with its thoroughly modern plant. Then,
the wonderful cleanliness remarked on with
admiration by every visitor!
Serve REX-PYE with salad or mint sauce. If
the day is warm, place a tin on the ice an
hour or so before lunch. It makes wholesome
tasty sandwiches too, for it is easily cut into
thin slices.
Put Quality before cheapness.
Always say REX-PYE .
REX-PYE
Other REX Pure Foods —
lib and CANS lib CANS ONLY
Baked Beans in Tomato Sauce
Lorraine Smoked Sausages
Pork Sausage
Pork and Beans in Tomato
Sauce
K-be-B (Kidneys, Beans and
Bacon)
Devilled Kidneys
Ox Tongue
Choice Soups (five kinds)
Pork Brawn
Pig Feet
Fry and Bacon
Beef Sausages
Red*y"nele, choice
beef and vegetables
—a ready meal
đ
ITT JONES PTV. LTD.
(Division of Unihed Provisions Lhd.)
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon.


s\'' • / /
m
Seen through the
Engagement Ring
Series No. 2.
After the Wedding we next visualise through the Engage-
ment Ring the Home, which bids welcome when Honeymoon
Days are over.
If you cannot call, write for Catanach’s Diamond Ring
Catalog, which is beautifully illustrated with the very
latest designs in Diamond Engagement and Dress Rings, and
a wide range of prices quoted.
The Catalog is post free on request. Write for it now.
Corner Royal Arcade and Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE. C.l.
24,864. —Four fine
Diamonds, 18ct. Gold
and P lati n u m Set-
tings, £2O
24,841.-11 Fine Dia-
monds, Platinum Set-
ting and 18et. Gold,
£l5
24,865. —Dainty Dia-
mond Cluster Ring,
18ct. Gold and Plati-
num Settings,
£lO/10/-
24.000. —5-stone Half-
hoop, ISct. Gold and
Platinum Hexagon Set-
tings, £l6 t
24.800. Three Tine
Diamonds. wjtli Dia-
mond shoulder--, lSrt.
Gold and Platinum
Sitings. £iJO
21.902. —Pine Dia-
monds, unusual design.
tSc:. «h>tfr Gold and
Platinum,
1T47/10/-
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Eliza bethan
Ten 'Rooms
Buckl[?] [?]
R[?]
Socially, so far as the city is concerned,
Easter is always a dull time, and this anni-
versary is no exception to the rule. We have
our innings, of course, at other times of the
year, but Sydney, with its finest Show on
earth and its Randwick races, has estab-
lished a magnet that proves irresistible to
our well-to-do. If one doesn’t care to go
a-roving over the border, the proper thing to
do is to make holiday at Geelong, where they
are less affected by the Sydney-complex and
make their own plans for a seasonal cele-
bration. In Geelong, therefore, one Chat-
terer took up her Easter quarters.
The Geelong Tennis Club’s fortieth Easter
tournament began in dull, cold weather, but
flapperdom rolled up in full force and entries
numbered close on 800. The courts are most
attractively placed, quite close to the bay
side, and have terraced lawns sloping down
to the asphalt. A fine tea pavilion on the
rise is a memorial to T. S. Hawkes,
father of .T. B. Hawkes (J.B. is lion. sec.
and trims, of the club), and R. B.
Keays, who perished in the Japanese earth-
quake a few years ago. Most of the white-
clad feminine players wore sports socks,
in some cases with gay-patterned tops to
match the wearer’s ;blazer. White felt
hats usurped the place formerly held by the
Lenglen bandeau. The girls hadn’t it all
their own way regarding attire, for there
were some ornate cream woollen sweaters
worn by men entrants whose stitches knit-
ters were longing to copy. J. B. Hawkes’s
defeat of C. J. Shaw in the singles cham-
pionship was the star event of the first day’s
play. Among the onlookers were Mrs. T.
A. Tabart and her sister, Mrs. L. F. Piesse,
from the Apple Isle; the Reg Twomeys,
Lorna Pliskens and Mrs. Leslie Sprague
and her house-party. A dance at the Corio
Club on Easter Monday night was the grand
finale.
There was an Easter golf tourney at the
Barwon Heads links, where the picturesque
club-house is perched on an eminence that com-
mands views of lakes, ocean, hills and head-
lands. The village below is delightful—
streets fringed with cypresses and unpreten-
tious cottages. Foursomes were included in
the golf competitions, and there were tennis
matches, for prizes, as a side-line, and per-
haps as an offset to the tournament in Gee-
long. Eighteen matrons gave a dance on
Saturday night, at which about 170 guesth
shared the delights of jazz and bridge.
Among the entertainers were Mrs. .T. Robert-
son, lion. sec. of the hop; Mrs. .T. Campbell,
Mrs. T. B. Hawkes and Mrs. A. A. Austin,
mother of the lion. sec. of the golf club,
Rene Austin. The big lounge served as ball-
room, and was decorated with balloons, gum-
tips and tall-stemmed blooms known as lion’s
paws. The neighborhood abounded in house-
parties, the T. B. Hawkes having among
their guests champion Ivo Whitton and his
wife. Mayor Luxton and Dr. and Mrs. F.
B. Crawford, of Ballarat, were others who
spent their Eastertide at Barwon Heads.
Geelong came into the limelight last week
with the opening of a whisky distillery at
Corio Bay. The new enterprise, which is
run by Distillers Co-op. Prop., Ltd., is half-
Scottisli and half-Australian in ownership.
The D.C.P, Ltd., has spent thousands of
pounds on the most modern machinery and
lias erected fine buildings on its 80 acres of
land. There will be 60 or 70 employees to
start with. A largely-attended dinner was
given to celebrate the opening.
There was an Easter gift distribution in
the Children’s Ward of tin; Alfred Hospital
during the week, this being an event post-
poned from Christmas time, when the young
patients were deprived of seasonal cheer on
account of serious illness among them. A
number of kindly women went laden with all
sorts of goodies including quaint Easter eggs
and caps; and even the babies’ cots flew bal-
loons. The small boys revelled in mechanical
toys and books, and the girls hugged prettily-
dressed dolls that went to sleep. Each
patient got just what he or she wanted, and
one lad who scorned a book because it had
girls’ stories in it was made happy with the
promise of a “Boy’s Own Annual” next day.
Outside the hospital was gloom and pouring
rain, but within the Michaelis Ward it was
very cheery. Among the joy-bringers were
the hon. sec. of the entertainments commit-
tee (May Rimmington), Mrs. Barry Thom-
son, Mrs. Wally Mitchell, Mrs. P. IT. Lock
of Werribee, Mrs. Edgar Dye, Mrs. Jim
Angus, Mrs. Maurice Patkin and Mrs. Park-
house. They and several other generous
folk were entertained at afternoon tea by
Matron Evans and her deputy, Sister Rowe.
At the Theatre Royal on Saturday night
Noel Coward’s “This Year of Grace” pre-
sented stage spectacles suggestive of the old-
time revue. Maisie Gay, the bright planet
of the show, who in manner is reminiscent
of May Beattie, was welcomed with a cart-
load of flowers, the chief tribute being a
large horseshoe of pink dahlias upon a tall
pedestal sent by Ada Reeve, now at the
Tivoli. The dressing covers many periods.
Miss Gay runs the gamut from the earliest
Victorian times to the last minute, and
adopts the raiment of various walks of life.
Most notable of her many dresses is a mar-
vellous yellow sequinned robe that introduces
her as a gay Parisienne. Molly O'Doherty,
a typically Irish miss, appears in evening
gowns of the fluffy variety, up in front and
down at the sides and back, and sprinkled
with glitter. The tall, slim, black-haired
dancer, Pat Kendall, does her graceful trip-
ping with Terry in the daintiest of modern
party frocks, a unique bit of covering being
fashioned to represent the American flag.
Stars decorate tne outside of blue, and the
stripes are visible beneath only when she
twirls. Many lovely gowns of the bustle
period are seen in the polka and mazurka
interlude, the ladies' partners wearing mili-
tary uniforms of those days. Another strik-
ingly effective ensemble is achieved with
direetoire gowns, which run from crimson
through all toning hues to pale lemon, with
hats to match. Though lots of people art*
out of town, there were many well-known
faces in the r.s., and some beautiful wraps
were sported. Mrs. Geoffrey Syme was in
a box, various sections of the Tait clan
occupying tin* three other compartments.
Mrs. Percy Rlaekbourn featured over a
black lace gown one of the new black sequin
coats. Mrs. Leon Gordon’s green chiffon
velvet wrap and the crystal-beaded rainbow
lame coat worn by Margaret Nicholson
caught the eye. Dr. and Mrs. Rob Strong,
the Ilenncssy lady and one of her daughters.
Madame de Bavav and Marie, the Harold
Clapps and Mrs. W. Merry were in the audi-
ence. Evelyn Scotney, who covered a black
and silvery gown with a mink coat, was
another first-nighter.
' “The Vagabond King” made a triumphal
entrance at His Majesty’s on Saturday,
when there were flowers in stacks for the
principals. The production promises to be
as great a favorite as “The Desert Song.”
The music is of th'e Offenbach type, with
dashes of Mascagni, and the color schemes
of the stage pictures have been very cleverly
devised. Browns and drab reds dominate the
mob scene in Act I, and in the second act
white, green and russet shades hold sway in
the costuming. Strella Wilson, who is slim-
mer than of yore, wears glad-rags of the
time of Louis XI. with distinction. She
appears first in a gold gown glimmering
beneath a moss-green velvet cape, and later
a lime-green veil floats from a gorgeous head-
dress upon draperies of platinum brocade
and lace. James Liddy's fair locks are hid-
den beneath a black wig as the vagabond
poet Francois Villon, and he wears form-
fitting velvet apparel, flared of skirt, very
like the feminine evening gown of a season
ago, when he is raised to the status of a
marshal. Mabel Love, in doublet and hose
of green and red or all green, is as pretty
as a picture, It is certainly the most elabo-
rately-dressed and -staged musical play out-
side grand opera we’ve seen here.
This good-looking lass is Pat Lempriere,
a bright, intelligent representative of our
younger se t.
Just at pre-
sent she is
doing a bit in
the cause of
culture as hon.
ticket see. of
the dance for
the Janet
Clarke Hall of
he Uni., which
is to be held
at the home of
the George
Itussells, St.
George’s - road,
Toorak, on
Friday. Miss
Lempri ere,
is a daughter
of the A. It.
Lemprieres, of
South Yarra.
Lafayette made
the picture.
The just rebuilt Singleton Homes for aged
women at Collingwood are remarkable for
their comfort. About 60 years ago the
late Dr. Singleton founded these homes in a
building which was used merely as a tem-
porary refuge. For some time after his death
his two daughters carried on the good work,
but feeling that the task was growing beyond
them they handed over the bindings, which
then had 14 residents, to the City Mission
about four years ago. The Mission has now
replaced the original weatherboard cottages,
with a brick building in which all bedrooms
look out upon a courtyard. A well-fur-
nished room is provided for each dweller,
and there is a kitchenette to each four or
live women, with a big community kitchen
as well. Most of the old people prepare
their own breakfasts and teas and partake
of a substantial mid-day meal cooked by the
matron. In cases where means permit, from
3s. to ss. a week is paid for a room, and a
very small sum is asked for the meal, which
is given freely when circumstances make this
necessary. Most occupants are in receipt
of the old-age pension, so life is not too
hard for them. Accommodation is limited
at present to 40. but when the place is com-
plete there will be room for another 20. The
new Singleton Homes have cost £ll.OOO. of
which £7OOO is in hand. The Mission gets
no Government support.
At the opening of the new building Mayor
Luxton made a speech and Miss E. Singleton
turned the key in the lock of the hall-door.
After the kettle was boiled tin l matron,
Sister Janett, introduced visitors to her
new domain.
Kerry Kelly, pictured here by Lafayette,
is off to London this month to seek fame.
She has just
completed a
nine - months’
contract with
the Margaret
B a n nnermnn
co., and will
have the en-
c o u ragement
and interest of
the Canadian
leading lady to
help her on
h e r w a y.
Yolande Noble,
who made a
fleeting bu t
h a p p i 1 y re-
membered ap-
pearance i n
“Marionettes,”
is a -fellow-
passenger, and
is also taking
Miss Kelly
under her wing, so the Australian won’t
lack friendly influence on the other side.
Miss Kelly made her stage debut a very
few years ago under the Carroll banner.
Lord Somers journeyed to Frankston one
afternoon last week to tap the foundation
stone of the orthopaedic section of the
Children’s Hospital at the seaside resort. The
new section, which is expected to be ready
for occupation about July, will have room
for 100 small patients. Sea air and sea
bathing will aid the latest methods of bone
treatment to restore the child patients to
health, and there will be a school for them,
under the Education Department. The new
section will cost £OO,OOO, and maintenance
will run into about £14,000 a year. The
C. site overlooks the sea and covers about
20 acres. The first owner was the late Thomas
Watts, R.A., whose name is perpetuated
in a memorial cot endowed by the members
of the family, who include ITenry Salter
Watts, James Salter Watts, Ruth and Amy
Watts, Mrs. Armstrong and Mrs. A. P.
MeFarlane, wife of the retired vicar of
Frankston. Prof. Noble, who held the chair
of surgery at the Uni. of Siam, has been
appointed head • of the new hospital.
On her way to a matinee, Oladys Mon-
crieff called in at the Town Hall and made
a little opening speech for the Royal Horti-
cultural Society’s show on Wednesday. The
leading lady of “Rio Rita” had a pink felt
hat above a navy-blue jumper suit, and was
rewarded with a posy of dahlias that
matched her millinery. Features of the
show were phenomenally big dahlias and
great masses of delphiniums. The up-to-date
dahlia doesn’t modestly nod its head, but,
supported by a stout stalk, looks the whole
world in the face. The cactus variety made
a great showing, and some, of the singles
and doubles were as big as soup-plates. Of
varieties of gladioli there is no ending, and
this show brought forward many newcomers.
Orchids were there in force, their faint
exotic perfume overpowered by that of car-
nations and roses. A notable display of
foliage plants from the city’s Fitzroy Gar-
dens rounded off a delectable collection.
The E.S.U. spread afternoon teaclotlis at
Scott’s one afternoon last week to greet Sir
Alfred Davies, the Welsh educationist, and
his wife, to welcome back Arthur Garrels,
Consul-General for U.S.A. and Mrs. Garrels,
and farewell Donald Mackinnon, a former
president of the union, and his wife, who
were on the eve of travel. Prof. Osborne,
being busy with Uni. duties, looked in for
a few minutes and deputed the chair to
D. G. Lumsden. Mr. and Mrs. J. H. Rowse,
London members of the E.S.U., and the Rev.
W. A. Ward, another visitor from oversea,
participated in the welcomes.
Nell Wimpole’s just-before-Easter enter-
tainment was spread over two afternoons.
Matrons and maids entrusted with altar
dates were bidden first, and unfettered
flappers gathered around bridge tables the
following Thursday. Miss Wimpole. a popular
member of the younger set, had the assist-
ance of her mother, and stepped easily into
the role of hostess.
Mrs. Vivian Trice and her sister, Winifred
Mills, are sailing back on the Cormoran
after a long tour of the Old World. Mrs-
Price will reoccupy her Toorak home, which
the Hammond Cleggs have occupied during
her absence. Mrs. Clegg, booked for an
April crossing, was busy with au revoir teas
last week.
Mr. and Mrs. Wallace Greer will return
this month after a European tour. She was
Alice Garde. After calling on her parents,
l)r and Mrs. Geoffry Garde, who live at
Brighton, the Greers will continue the jour-
ney to their home in Tamworth (N.S.W.).
The Canberra is expecting a new captain,
L. S. Holbrook, whose dad is one of Eng-
land’s big newspaper proprietors. Captain
G. Massey is to rejoin the li.N.
News comes of the death of Mrs. J. 'V •
McEchern, who has been abroad with her
daughter for a year. She had just returned
to England from Switzerland, seemingly in
fine health, but the severe cold was too much
for her, and sin* dic'd in Surrey.
Mrs. F. W. Masters, whose husband was
vicar of Holy Trinity, Balaclava, and is
now rector of a Bath (England) church,
has answered the last call. She was a daugh-
ter of the late eminent Charles Todd, of S.
Aus. Another daughter married scientist
William Bragg, a winner of the Nobel prize.
Captain Forster, who has had charge of
the Jervis Bay Naval College for two years,
is returning to England. He hands over his
job to Captain Cyril Benson, who wears a
bar with his D. 5.0., and is also a holder of
the Royal Humane Society’s medal for life-
saving.
Zillah Bateman found a part, waiting for
her as soon as she arrived in the Cold Country.
Daisy Elliston fell out of the role of Margot
in “The Desert Song,” and the new arrival
was rushed into the leading part with only
two rehearsals. According to notices she
scored a success. In this country the golden-
topped Zillah was only seen in 11011-vocal
plays, but on the other side she has mostly
appeared in musical comedy. She writes that
she saw many familiar Australian faces at
the Drury-lane tea which Marjory Hicklin
gave to celebrate her promise to wed Leon
Heron.
Mrs. P. W. Stevenson and her Canon,
having decided to pitch their tent in this
city, have bought a home at Caulfield. He
is Federal sec. of the Church Missionary
Society in Australia, which involves occa-
sional visits of inspection to other States.
He was formerly one of the canons of Win-
nipeg’s Cathedral, and before that had
Indian experience.
This thoughtful face belongs to Marjorie
Lawrence, a
Geelong singer,
now in Paris.
A pupil of
Ivor Boustead,
she was intro-
duced by John
Brownlee t o
Madame Dink
Gi 11 y, who
hailed the
newcomer with
joy, declaring
her to be that
rarity a dra-
matic mezzo-
soprano.
Madame Gilly
accepted the
Victorian as a
student, and
she is now un-
dergoing train-
in g. Jack
Cato made the
portrait.
Cyril Ritchard and Madge Elliott, now
holidaying in Paris, were in the Opera House
audience which applauded John Brownlee in
“Salome.” Seated in a stall was the singer’s
bride. The Bi-ownlecs are making a home
just outside of the gay city, where a garden
is possible and the roar of traffic will not
drown the music at week-end parties out-
lined on their domestic programme.
The Apache handkerchief has made its
appearance on the corsage of evening gowns,
but the three-cornered bit of shoulder
drapery is not likely to become the rage.
Some of the fashionable emporiums imported
a few elaborate versions of this fal-lal, glit-
tering in scintillating embroidery and
spangles, but so far the Chatterer has met
only one person who purchased such an
adornment, and her purpose was to have
the bit of fabric turned into a close-fitting
headgear for theatre or dance wear. A
beautifully-cut grey georgette frock seen it
a smart private dance featured an Apache
addition of the same material, but during the
progress of the jazz the wearer discarded it.


I
m
Polished Oak Cabinets, com-
pletely fitted with Prince's
Plate Spoons and Forks and
“Trustworthy” Cutlery, are
available from £7/10/- to
£lOO. A catalogue will be
sent upon request.
Visitors
to London
Mappin & Webb have the distinction of
being one of the oldest Firms of Gold
and Silversmiths, Jewellers, and Dress-
ing Bag Makers in the World, and they
extend a cordial invitation to visitors
from the Commonwealth to call when
in London. t
The Oxford Street and Regent Street
Showrooms are within 5 minutes by
taxi from the leading Hotels; the City
Showrooms are quite near St. Paul’s
Cathedral, The Tower of London, Guild-
hall, and opposite The Mansion House.
MAPPIN LWEBR
JEWELLERY• WATCHE S * CLOCKS • SILVERWARE
PRINCES PLATE • 'FANCY L LEATHER GOODS.
—: 1. ON DON’ SHOWROOMS :
158-162,OXFORD ST w.i. 172. RE GENT STw.i.2.QUEEN VICTORIA STt^cc
Amusements.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE DESERT SONG
ROYAL: HIT THE DECK.
CRITERION: YOUNG WOODLEY.
PALACE: THE WRECKER.
WORLD’S GREATEST WOMAN
VIOLINIST,
ERICA MORINI
ERICA MORINI
ERICA MORINI
The wonderful Viennese genius.
“It is no idle claim that she is the greatest
living woman violinist.”— London Daily Sketch.
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Direction E. J. CARROLL.
APRIL 4, 6 and 9.
Gala Orchestral Concert, SATURDAY, APRIL 6.
TOWN HALL, MELBOURNE, Commencing April 27.
RICKARDS' TI V oTI THEATRES?
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
IWEW COMEDY THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
RUTH NUGENT and ALLAN BUNCE in
APPLESAUCE.
Amusements.
C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
THE VAGABOND KING.
ROYAL:
THIS YEAR OF GRACE.
ING 'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LEON GORDON in
THE GHOST UPSTAIRS.
(Commencing’ Saturday.)
{-JOYT'S DE LU xIE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
EVELYN LA YE and HENRY VICTOR in
THE LUCK OF THE NAVY
(British Dominion Film)
AND
PUCILLA MORAN and WILLIAM V. MONG in
NO BABIES ALLOWED
(Cinema Art Film).
INSTANT PEACE
FOR ANGRY STOMACHS
Get relief from indigestion and sour stomach quickly
and take a real step to total banishment of digestive
disorder by taking Para-Pepsin. This maintains
correct internal balance; prevents excess acid; gives
appetite. Nothing harsh; nothing harmful. Para-
Pepsin is the remedy a doctor would recommend—
your chemist sells it with directions at two shillings.
Note tile word “Para” before “Pepsin.”
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman need s to know.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISDANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Sociel Life!
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Four one-act plays made up the bill for
the opening of the Repertory Club’s winter
season at the Assembly Hall. In “The
Monkey’s Paw,” a dramatisation of W. W.
Jacobs’s famous fairy tale, James Ottaway,
the producer, took the leading part, and was
assisted by the polished acting of Cara Cam-
millieri. In Milne’s absurdity, “Wurzle
Flummery,” Mr. Poock and Victor Evans
shared the honors, Tlieo Leach and
Jean Hemy were also in the cast. Molly
Ick produced “The Wild Goose,” and Mrs.
Goyne Miller “Rosalind,” with Marcia
Hodges in the name part.
Enthusiasm for golden-voiced Irene Stan-
cliffe has developed into practical support.
She possesses a true coloratura soprano voice,
and competent critics prophesy for her a
great future. Miss Stancliffe goes soon to
the Cold Land to compete in the National
Eisteddfod of Wales, and a fund has been
started to enable her to complete her studies.
The Vincent Wheatleys were scarcely able
to snatch enough time between attending
parties in their honor to pack their trunks
for the Ormonde. Another popular pair, also
from South Perth, who are being farewelled
are the Frank Stricklands. Among enter-
tainments for them were Mrs. Dickson’s
afternoon bridge party and Mrs. Melville
Smith’s dance. At the jazz frivol both host-
ess and honored guest favored black frocking.
Here is. somebody who can not only mea-
sure the intelligence of normal people, but
who can delve
into the work-
ings of defec-
tive minds.
She is Miss
Effie Stone-
man, our Gov-
ernment Psy-
chologist. Her
work embraces
p s ycliologieal
examining for
Government
and charitable
i n s t itutions,
the Education
D e p a rtment
and private
cases in which
her advice is
solicited. She
graduated at
our Uni. and
then studied
.. . at Stanford
IJm. m America. Later she was placed in
charge of the psychological laboratory at the
Royal Bethlehem Hospital in London, where
she had opportunities to study abnormal
cases. While in England Miss Stoneman
joined study tours to Paris, Vienna, Amster-
dam, Prague and other Continental cities,
where she came in contact with the most
eminent nerve specialists of the day. In
addition to her official position, she is one
of the lecturers in Psychology at Perth Uni.
La Fayette made the portrait.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The Students’ Union of our Uni. has got
partly housed under rather comic conditions.
I or many years the men have been trying
to raise £20,000 for an adequate home, the
question whether women students would ulti-
mately share in it being a kind of side-line.
Then Josiah Symon, K.C.,, and his wife put
down £lO,OOO for a Women’s Union hall,
which was promptly built and is now opened,
complete and up to the minute. A long
refectory, common to both sexes, branches
off from it, at a right-angle, to the vacant
space where will ultimately be the corres-
ponding wing that the men are still aiming
at.
Knight Moulden, French Consul and Adel-
aide alderman, announces his intention of
leaving on April 11. It is stated that the
immediate object of his journey is to repre-
sent our St. John Ambulance Association at
the annual meeting of the parent body in
London in July. A sort of return visit to
the British Delegation that came to Australia
in November.
Hel&ne, elder daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
A. F. Lynch, sports a sparkler the gift of
Lindon, son of the late Peter Wood and
Mrs. Wood.
The John Dunns’ son Seymour is one of
the Nestor’s passengers, bound for Kenya,
where he is to try his luck on the land.
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The Governor and Lady Goodwin went co
the municipal baths to see the primary
schoolgirls’ annual carnival. The president,
Miss A. E. Crosser, Dr. Ethel Pitt, Speaker
Bertram. J. McKenna and J. J. Daly gave
the hand of welcome, and Esmee Thomason
presented a sheaf of red roses to Lady Good-
wan. There was tea in the committee-room
in a bower of bloom.
The Goodwins, taking Alice Hawthorn
with them, went to see the Amateur Opera
Society in “Florodora,” at the Bohemia
Theatre. For the society, Mrs. Eve gave
Lady Goodwin a sheaf of crimson roses.
Two pretty daughters of Ashton Murphy
were in the sextette, and Dorothy Webster
was charming in her dance numbers. There
was a full house. Various charities benefited,
and a bevy of society girls sold sweets and
programmes with profitable results.
Mrs. . Edgar Harris, president of the
V omen’s Club, spoke of the women’s clubs •
of the world before the members of the
Brisbane one. She is qualified to give aD
opinion, as she has been on a grand tour
with her daughter Noela for some time.
Mrs. Sidney Martin spoke appreciatively of
Mrs. Harris's return after two years’ ab-
sence ; and Eunice Cochrane, of the golden
hair, Mary and Vada Jeffries. Adeline Col-
ledge and D. Sanders made music.
The Alliance Frangaise welcomed president
A. Wunderlich, of the Sydney Alliance, in
the School of Arts hall, president E. Griffith
Oxley and Mrs. Oxley receiving. Mr. Wun-
derlich spoke of Egypt and his travels there,
and Mrs. Fogarty, Henri Tardcnt and Alfred
Wunderlich provided a musical programme.
The New Farm bowlers gave a party
under blue skies and on green lawns when
the pennant won by the club in the last asso-
ciation tournament was unfurled. President
Stanley Kent and Mrs. Kent received under
an awning trimmed with roses and palms,
Mrs. Kent wearing vieux rose and a black
velour hat. The band played on a flag-
enclosed verandah, and streamers of red,
white and blue and many-colored balloons
decorated. PI. ,T. Shaw, president of the
Q.8.A., unfurled the pennant, and Mrs.
Shaw received a posy.
Oxley Golf Club has opened its new
course. This club has a membership of 250,
and the links look out to the Ipswich hills.
Members of the social committee provided
tea, and there was a crowd of guests.
Prcsswomen assembled in Pennons’ east-
ern lounge to farewell Madeline Clarke, who
is leaving Brisbane to toil with E. J. Carroll
in Sydney. Miss Clarke said she would be
back again often on Carroll affairs. She
wore a pretty blue frock and hat, and was
handed a posy, pink roses and carnations,
tied with sky-blue ribbons. Mrs. W.
Young made a complimentary speech. The
round table was set with cactus dahlias of
gold and brown, and the lounge was decked
with La France roses in silver vases.
Barrington Waters, who for health rea-
sons has to take a long holiday in Maori-
ladd, was tendered a farewell and benefit
by the theatrical profession in Cremorne
Theatre, where seats were booked out early
in the week. Some £250 was raised by the
benefit, and the Pullers added £lOO.
Jean Pollock, the Queensland girl who, in
1927, captured the first Trinity College fellow-
ship in New South Wales, being then a pupil
of Frank Hutchens, has gained another suc-
cess in London, having just been awarded a
further three years’ scholarship at the Royal
Academy. Jean began her studies under the
late Miss Abell in Queensland, getting her
A.T.C.L. at 12. At 13 she was an L.T.C.L.
and three years later was entitled to write
L.A.B. after her name.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The O’Grady paid a visit to the Easter
encampment at Ross, and was the guest of
the Eustace Camerons, Mona Vale, while
there. Lieut.-General Harry Chauvel, who
came to inspect the camp, was also enter-
tained at Mona Vale.
The first Uni. dance of the season went
off very successfully in the Library, where
the decorations and shaded lights of rose and
orange were kindly to both frocks and their
wearers.
The Sunbeam Chalet at the Consumptive
Sanatorium justified its name on a recent
Saturday afternoon, when the switcliing-on
of the new electrical refrigerating plant, the
gift of an anonymous donor, was made the
occasion of a party for the kiddies of the
institution. Dr. and Mrs. Stoddart Ban-
provided all sorts of goodies, and Miss Pat.
Rex gave an Australian flag, which was
flown on the flagpole presented to the Sana-
torium by Mrs. Humphreys.
Mrs. Stourton, lady of many activities,
was extensively farewelled before starting in
the Nestor for the Cold Country. The
Bush Nursing Association, of which she is
president, and the National Council of
Women were the two last bodies to speed
the parting guest. At the N.C.W. function
a programme of Scottish music was a fea-
ture of the evening, and Mrs. Stourton re-
cited “The March of the Cameron Men”
with much spirit.
Mrs. Edith Ilall, pictured here, is a very
energetic and versatile lady. She has been
a member of
the District
Nurses’ Asso-
ciat i o n for
over 20 years
(president for
a great part
of the time),
and is an
active member
of the Child
Welfare Asso-
ciation, of
which she was
Tas. represen-
tative at the
Nat. Council
o f Women’s
Conference at
Geneva in
1927. She is
a foundation
member of the
Itinerary
Literary
Society, and has conducted play-readings for
the W.E.A. course of winter-work this year,
as well as running a play-reading circle of
her own.
The Art Theatre players drew upon some
members of the Hobart Reportory Society—
W. E. Fuller, Moira Keating and C. O’Con-
nor among them—to assist in some of their
productions. Terence Crisp, well known to
us of old, came over from Melbourne to nlav
in Noel Coward’s “Vortex.”
Dawn Assheton and Daszlo Schwartz, with
Estelle Sheehan as accompanist, gave a four-
nights’ season of costume recitals. The
stage was decorated and draped with Hun-
garian shawls and other colorful fabrics.
Folk songs were dramatically rendered, and
negro spirituals made a strong appeal.
E. E. Unwin, headmaster of Friends’ High
School, with his better-half, has gone for a
six-months’ trip to England. While there,
being a good Repertorian, he’s going to look
out for suitable plays for the society.
Mrs. Hungerford and her daughter, Mrs
Arndell Lewis, are paying a brief visit to
Sydney and the Blue Mountains, where Mrs.
Hungerford will stay with her sister, * the
Cullen lady. ’


enhance
tjourbeautij
IJEAUTY of face is best
framed in a wealth of
charming hair. Make the most of your
hair as a background for your beauty by
using Rowland’s Macassar Oil twice a day.
Comb the oil well into your hair, when it
will show the gloss of health, and weak
and falling hair will be a thing of the past.
Of all Chemists Stores and Hair-
dressers. Red
for dark hair.
Golden for fair
or grey hair.
<e»
ď
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W. 0.1.,
ENGLAND. C.T.p.68.
K5l
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
■tSBST
ttr'.AtO*'*- ■ r
rsgsgg--**
WS^Pf,
ttg
WZg&r~
wv*
V-AVJT*
3£&-.2«g„' r
m&& s
****
■frC>&
s**
■#a&
»i?A
AND SOLD
EVERYWHERE
IN AUSTRALIA
NO RIND —NO WASTE—
ABSOLUTELY HYGIENIC.
Sold in %lb. Cartons, as illustrated, and by weight by all Grocers,
Ready in a moment
always hade
đ
in the home
it is so handy
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists & Stores
model, knew the run of your studio. He
knew when he saw the jug empty of water
that if he had a drink you would have to
get him the water. At least, it was good
enough to try. Why didn’t you send him.
“That did not occur to me,” said Felspar.
“It’s a pity it didn’t. I’m satisfied,
Clinton continued, “that this fellow—any-
one can see he is a rogue —has stolen that
death certificate. It’s made plainer by his
sudden flight to Sydney. Where was the
necessity to take his daughter—she s danger-
ous—to Sydney so quickly? That yarn of
posing for Lock is, I think, dust; just
dust! That is not the true reason. There
is a mystery about the whole thing that
puzzles me.”
“But the death certificate can be of no
use to him,” urged Felspar.
“You keep on saying that foolish thing,
Felspar. If it was not of any use to him,
why did he take it? Why did he leave the
two pound-notes in the wallet? Is it not
plain that he was too cunning to take the
money? If he had done so you would have
suspected him. It would have been a
common, clumsy bit of sneak-thieving, and
he knew it. No! The death certificate
seemed to him to be more likely to be of
value, and you were much more likely to
suppose you had lost it since it it
only was missing from your wallet.”
“If you could show me what use he could
make of that certificate I would be more
inclined to think you are right, replied
Felspar with a touch of impatience.
A deeper flush, the outcome of suppressed
excitement, had by this time come into his
cheeks. Clinton detected that Felspars
nerves were giving way and that he might
lose control of himself. He, therefore, spoke
more quietly and conveyed a subtle sym-
pathy to the young man.
“If I could tell you that, old man, there
would be no mystery,” he said kindly. I
confess to a feeling that there may be a
lot in this affair, or nothing—merely a
mare’s nest that we have stirred up.”
“Will you tell me what you think, what
your feeling is?” asked Felspar, encouraged
by the older man’s friendliness.
Clinton opened one of his table drawers
and handed a box of cigars to Felspar.
“Have you a match?” he asked.
Felspar had. Clinton rose from his chair
and went to his office door and locked it.
He took a cigar himself and lit it, then
pulled his swinging office-chair out from the
table, tilted it back and puffed a cloud of
smoke. “Not bad cigars,” he said.
Well aware of his visitor’s impatience,
he had deliberately broken off the discus-
sion in order to ease the tension.
Presently he gave his leonine head a toss,
as if he desired to free his mind of the open-
ing phase of the discussion he had just
closed. . .
“You ask me what I think, what my feel-
ing is. I will tell you.” .
“Please do!” said the young man with
some emotion. He placed the cigar he had
just lit on the tray beside-him.
“The position, as it presents itself to me,
Felspar, is that you went to Paris and be-
came an art student. You came back. Those
two things are known facts. As to what
you did in the interval we have only your
story.”
“But” Felspar began.
“Now, don’t be impatient. Bear with me,
Felspar. I do not intend to hurt your
feelings, but to get to the bedrock; and
you’ll then realise, with me, what you are
faced with. Your story is that you married
one of your models.”
“Not my model,” corrected Felspar. “She
was more than that before she married me.”
“It is of little consequence now whether
she was model or mistress since she became
your wife. You say she left you a heartless
note, such as is written by such women in
the Latin Quarter when they are changing
their lodgings and their masters. Did you
keep that note?”
“No, I destroyed it.”
“That’s reasonable. It’s what most men
suffering from wounded vanity would do.
The emotions a note like that would recall,
if it turned up in after-years, would not be
pleasant. You also say that this woman
took what money you had. You came
back to Australia. Later you heard that
she was unfortunate, and later still that her
body was found in the Seine.”
“That is so,” Felspar said quietly.
“An old concierge recognises the body on
a marble slab of the Paris morgue as the
remains of your wife. He is fortified in
that opinion by the production at the
morgue of a. cameo brooch which he knew
you gave to —to —thanks —yes, Lisette
Delas, the model who became your wife.
Later he sends you a paper which, you give
me to understand, certifies that certain re-
mains were buried, on the evidence of the
concierge, as those of Lisette Delas Felspar.
Afterwards you hear no more of your wife?”
“How could I when she was dead and
buried?”
“Of course you couldn’t—if she was
dead!”
“Do you mean to say that you think she
is not dead?” asked Felspar with mingled
feelings of astonishment and fear.
“Not for a moment! I have an open
mind. My own belief is that the story is
true as far as you know, but the proof that
the remains buried were those of your wife
is not at present sufficient to satisfy me.”
“But, sir”—commenced Felspar, partly
rising, thrilled with emotion.
“Permit me,” rejoined Clinton—“permit
me to proceed, since you have encouraged
me to go this far.”
Felspar sat back in his chair with a re-
signed air.
“I attach,” continued Clinton, “little
importance to the brooch. I know, Felspar,
something of that world of ‘joyful unhappi-
ness.’ It is a common practice for what we
call unfortunate women to give each other
trinkets when they swear eternal friend-
ships—friendships that often last for very
short ‘eternities.’ The brooch could easily
have come into possession of the dead
woman in that way.”
“But there is Jules Dejazet’s identification
of the body . He could not make a mis-
take,” said Felspar, though plainly feeling
unhappy about it all.
“I have not forgotten that. I suppose
we could get into communication with
him?”
Felspar was silent. He was very troubled.
Mr. Clinton seemed to pursue the doubt he
had raised till it began to take shape in his
own mind.
“I suppose,” Felspar said tentatively, “we
can get a certified copy of Jules Dejazet’s
deposition at the Morgue.”
“If we examined the man himself, on com-
mission, it would be better,” remarked Clin-
ton.
“I am very sorry to say that I think he is
dead. He was a very old man when I was
in Paris. I wrote to him, but received no
reply to my letter.”
“That’s unfortunate. Most unfortunate.
But stay—had this woman any relations
that you know of? We could get into com-
munication with them. You see, Felspar,
though I have to demolish, or at least ques-
tion, your grounds for believing your wife
is dead, I am your friend. I am anxious
to help you, for your own sake and for the
sake, perhaps, of another. If your late
wife’s relations knew of her death, and
they could swear to it, their affidavits, taken
in conjunction with the certificate from the
Morgue, would satisfy the doubt I have
in my mind.”
“She had a cousin who was also a model,
but I never heard what became of her.”
“We must find her.”
“Paris is a big place,” observed Felspar;
“and artists’ models of the type she be-
longed to are not so easily found, especially
in view of the time which has elapsed since
I was in Paris. .
“We must find her,” Clinton repeated.
When he proceeded, every word seemed
to cut Felspar as with a knife.
“You told Betty you had the certificate
of death of your wife, but when you went
to produce it you found you had lost it.
You tell me of the activities of Jules
Dejazet on your behalf, and I believe you.
I ask you about this concierge who be-
friended you, and you tell me you think he
is dead. I question you as to your late
wife’s relations, and you tell me you know
of a cousin, but offer little hope that she
can be found.”
Clinton paused. He looked steadily at
the young man, who felt the penetrating
power of those eyes peering under the heavy
brows.
“I will not,” he continued, “dwell on the
mixed feelings I have as regards that rogue
Carducci, or why he might have taken the
death certificate—it’s no good your protest-
ing, I’m certain he did take it. As I said,
its disappearance may mean a great deal.
Again, there’s the story of your finding
Marie Carducci in a fruitshop. It’s an extra-
ordinary chain, is it not? Felspar, there s
a lot that requires clearing up. You seem
to have had a fatality for getting mixed up
with queer people. I hope we’ll find a
way out of the maze.”
‘‘l hope so!” said Felspar. He was feeling
as if his hopes had been almost slashed out
of existence.
Clinton held out his hand, which the
young man took.
“Call,” said Mr. Clinton, dismissing him,
“and see me in a week’s time, and tell me
if there is anything fresh. Meanwhile I’ll
cable to a friend of mine in Paris who is
persona grata at the Police Bureau "
Chapter X.
Carducci was quite at home in Sydney.
He had been about two weeks in the city
with his wife and Marie when he went into
partnership with his friend Giuseppe Don-
zetti, who was the proprietor of a cheap
eating-house near the harbor front. The
place was frequented by overseas sailors and
men who hung around the wharves looking
for odd jobs. It was surprising the number
of Italians Carducci met and greeted in
their patois. Some of these swarthy foreigners
—odd ones among them with gold rings in
their ears—foregathered with him and his
partner after midnight in a back room of the
louse. There they played cards, drank wine,
gambled and wrangled till the early hours of
the morning, Carducci taking up his fiddle
at intervals to solace himself with his tunes.
The Italian seemed to be satisfied with his
environment. He and his partner ate in pri-
vate of pizza, and were not afraid to add
garlic. They drank wine and smoked, Don-
zetti his cigarette, Carducci his cigar, some-
times his pipe; but his pipe came only after
a hectic night. Carducci felt quite safe as
a restaurant-keeper, so far as personal lib-
erty was concerned. The Bellarosa robbery,
he told himself a thousand times, was “as
dead as a saint’s shinbone,” and no one
could recognise him. Everything was like
to prosper, and if he indulged in a little
knavery now and then, did it not add spice
to life? Marie was obtaining employment
as an artist’s model, and he was satisfied
with her, and to have her clear of Gerald
Deacon’s clutches. It was not for him to
interfere with fate, or to thwart the wishes
of St. Catharine, who watched over his wife
and Marie, the saint be praised! By the
aid of their prayers and the burning of suf-
ficient candles, he might yet gather in
enough money to allow him to return to
Naples, there to start the fashionable gam-
ing-house the. thought of which had
obsessed him for years.
If Carducci was annoyed at times, it was
by his wife Jeannette’s reminder, when he
was having a “little fly” at something which
the law disliked, that it was most unfortun-
ate Australia, too, had goals. But—the
saints be praised!—there were worse wives
than Jeannette, even though she did turn
out his pockets while at night he slept
soundly, snoring as only Neapolitans can
snore after a heavy meal washed down with
chianti. _
Jeannette, in one of her midnight
searches, found in her husband’s notebook
the death certificate of Lisette Delas Fel-
spar. Suspecting that he designed to use
the certificate in a fraud, she gave him no
peace for three days, urging him to send
the dangerous thing back to Felspar; but
Carducci blustered and swore so much that
for family peace she ceased, with a throw of
her well-used shot, “In gaol it is you finish,
Tony Carducci.”
Carducci did not allow his wife or Marie
to have anything to do with the eating-
house. He gave them the excuse that
Donzetti hated women in his kitchen,
wherefore one of the clauses of their partner-
ship deed was “No women about the pre-
mises.” The family’s dwelling-place was in
an old, odorous lodging-house a little back
from the waterfront. The numerous small
rooms were occupied by a gregarious hotch-
potch. The tenants wormed their ways
along small, dark and narrow passages
which led to the main staircase. The ground
floor opened into a court-yard.
In a sort of sentry-box placed alongside
the door that gave access to the staircase
was to be found every night the residential
major-domo. Unlike his Parisian prototype,
he did not know very much about the
tenants, for they did not gossip about
themselves, and the letters that came
for them were very few indeed. The
Carduccis occupied four rooms on the third
floor, and Mr. Carducci, the restaurant-
proprietor, was the most distinguished ten-
ant of the bobtail lot. ~ .
The main staircase had a landing-place
close to the passage wherein were the rooms
of Carducci. According to the dog-eared
record-book kept by the porter, there were
thirty-five tenants, but the number a a y ie d
every night in what wharf-laborers called
“McGinty’s dosshouse.”
The tenants had among them many
foreigners washed up in Sydney, driftwood
from the ocean’s highways. How they eked
out a living was unknown even to the
police, who often went to the house in
search of some prohibited immigrant or,
maybe, a criminal in hiding.
On the floor above that on which
the Carducci family had their rooms theie
lived a Frenchman about fifty years
of age, and a woman ten or twelve years
younger. They kept to themselves, and
spoke to none of the inmates of the lodg-
ing-house. They were registered m the
porter’s book as Mr. and Mrs. Browlow.
Since they sought privacy, the lodging-
house suited them well. No one except
the hall-keeper could say who lived in the
place. The tenants seldom met each other
even on the common stairway.
Mr. Browlow did not leave his somewhat
isolated room except at night. Then he
would furtively slink down the ill-lighted
stairs, and so past the porter, into the
street. But such habits were unnoticed by
the tenants, who had no desire, as the
porter expressed it, to “stick their noses
into anyone’s business, so long as people
kept their noses out of theirs.” The woman
retained her well-modelled features, but the
soft lines that had given to them a beauty
were there no longer. Strong lines were
now etched in; they hardened her face,
which had an expression of bitterness. Her
once musical voice was changed to some-
thing hopeless, soulless, hollow-sounding.
Her figure was still attractive, and though
she was beyond the days when men felt the
magnetism of her alluring beauty, still she
passed well enough at night, when ever)
cat is grey. She was struggling desperately
to make a living for the man who lay in
concealment, and for whom she showed an
extraordinary dog-like devotion. When
she was unable to find casual work m the
daytime and to bring to the sordid room
her few shillings, the man shrugged his
shoulders, and the woman, after a little
silent cry, crept downstairs into the night.
When Marie went to pose for Mr. Brush
Lock she met a woman who was seeking
employment as a model. The womans
face seemed familiar; but the girl could not
“place” her.
“I think I have met madame before?
Marie, sensing distress, spoke to her in
French. “Do you remember?”
“I am afraid not, Mademoiselle. Was it
in Paris, perhaps? I met many ladies there
whom I have forgotten until I am reminded
by some incident; but you, with your
lovely face, I could not forget. No, no, no!
One with eyes to see could not forget the
charm of Mademoiselle!”
Marie bowed. “I am sorry I have not yet
been in beautiful Paris, but my mother pro-
mises me I shall go there.”
“Possibly, Mademoiselle, I am like some-
one you have met? How often such droll
things do happen in our lives! We notice
the resemblances, but not the differences,
and we persuade ourselves the semblance is
the reality. That must be it. Mademoiselle,
for you could not have seen me in any
other place except Paris. I have travelled far,
but of people I have seen but few since
I came to Australie.”
Marie was still doubtful. She was clear
she had met Madame somewhere. Since
the woman had referred to her, Marie’s,
face, there was Madame’s own face. It
was not one that she was likely to forget.
The face she recalled was a younger one
than Madame’s, but time and suffering could
change a mask of comedy into tragedy it-
self. Madame’s eyes and mouth were so
hard that Marie w r as inclined to shrink a
little from the woman until she smiled in
a wan sad way, looking, as she did so, such
a poor worn creature that sympathy touched
Marie’s heart.
Mrs. Carducci dismissed the recognition
of the woman as readily explainable. Her
daughter had simply made a mistake, and
taken some other for her. It wasn’t worth
bothering about.
(Continued on page 50.)


p^mrwr
r ti
t
a
Ksgsri-:
■■■,. a a
feain
Ml IBS
rtE^SSBB
Hi
JDK
f ("o£>
sms
SSSK
8
WißftmS H
r V’ v MADE
• '?•••••'•" .x_ J \ ’:•
V
M4q£
,V C(?U
wr**
©
No. 99 SET. Contains the essentials for a
perfect “Valet” shave—the razor,
strop and three blades in leather-
ette-covered case
3/-
Managing A gents for Australia •
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
New Zealand Agents:
VAN STAVEREN BROS., Ltd., Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch.
“Slips along smoothly, doesn’t she?”
“Oh, you mean the car.... I was looking
at the poster. . ...”
“That slips along smoothly, too!”
“You use a Valet yourself?”
“Never used any other since I started
shaving.”
“Why so faithful?”
“Because it never lets me down. You
see, the blades are —”
“Ah, the blade’s the thing!”
“ are stropped to perfection automati-
cally by a device in the razor itself.”
“Sounds good. But I’ve no time in the
mornings.”
“Don’t need it! Ten seconds on the strop
without taking anything to pieces gives
you a blade as good as new.”
“Sounds ideal now! Where can I—?”
“Any dealer’s. 3/-, 8/6 or 21/- for the
entire set, all with the same principle.”
Come Play!
The Fyanelaa/i invites you
r%
II
Iff
1»
li
if
■
■ :
n
mi
7* .
\
ffere, in. your own social environ-
ment, you may indulge your every
fancy in outdoor sport.
4- 1 1
v*. •**'
PI :
um
mwm
K
A
' \
\
#
-
< . V■; ;
\
N
iiiffiS
>r
o»>
jK-v
1
ba
#
£
wmmm
NEVER was your eye keener nor your hard
more true. The tonic air makes you want
to play all day.
The clean smack and whistle of your golf ball on
Australia’s finest inland Links strenuous sets of
Tennis wandering afoot through the country-
side with rod and gun wading after duck on the
Wingecarribee, or angling for bass or perch in the
Mountain streams —will keep you joyfully out-of-
doors at the Ranelagh.
Vary your vacation still more with riding and
croquet, and in the evenings, with the comfort of
cheery old-world log fires—dancing, card parties,
billiards everywhere a delightful clubby atmo-
sphere you will find idle hours as pleasant as
sporting hours.
PLAN NOW TO COME.
Inclusive Tariff from Send for Illustrated
£l/1/- per day or Brochure from the Sydney
from £6/6/- per week. Booking Office, 81+ Pitt
Street. ’Phone, 81002.
15 mile* east ..>/ Moss Vale. 2300 feet above sea-level.
iSytol Hanela^ho
ROBERTSON, N.S.W.
(The Premier Country Hotel of the Commonwealth.)
Under the Management of Gaston M. Lievain.


IN ALL THE NEW
GCSSAEES
t
<4
yeti eine>
EASE AND CCMECET..
NEW BEAIJTy
OF EIOIJEE LINES
Even the slimmest of figures these days
must be supported though only by
the narrowest garter belt. In the new
Gossard designs you will find hooka-
rounds, girdles, dainty step-ins, and
garter belts that give soft figure support
and a feeling of natural body freedom.
Note this Garter Belt Particularly
Shaped over the abdomen and hip-
lines, this Gossard garter belt termi-
nates at the back in an elastic insert.
It is designed of satin, and shows hose
supporters at the front and sides, per-
mitting a smart, flat backline.
Worn with it is anew Cunningform
brassiere which shows concealed diag-
onal drawstrings at the center, for
individual adjustment.
the Canadian H. W. Gossard Cos., Ltd.
114-120 Castlereagh Street
SYDNEY, N. S. W.
CC//ACC LINE ./iCAliy
*
GOSSARDS ARE MADE WITHIN THE EMPIRI
1
m.
BELLS OF MISSION SAN GABRIEL
Founded 1771 on the slopes of poppy-clad foothills near Pasadena, California.
CALIFORNIA
EVERY MILE WORTH WHILE
From Australia you travel on Matson-Oceanic liners via Suva (Fiji),
Pago Pago (Samoa) and Honolulu (Hawaii) to San Francisco,
cosmopolitan city by the Golden Gate.
San Francisco is the central portal to the scenic wonders of the United
States and Canada, and affords easy access to their great cities and
business centres.
San Francisco is unique among the great cities of America. Here are
combined the art and poise of Paris, the enthusiasm of New York, and
the leisure of London.
Comparable to the "cathedral towns” of Europe are the California
Mission towns, with old Spanish missions, monuments of heroic Padres
who first brought civilisation to the land. Truly, this is a bright region
of romance.
Sydney to San Francisco and return, £125/10/- first class, £B7 second
class, bv the Matson-Oceanic route. Only 19 days between these ports,
with three pleasant pauses en route, in the verdant Pacific Islands.
Call or write for descriptive pamphlets, fare lists, sailing dates and other information.
SS. SIERRA S.S. SONOMA S.S. VENTURA
SAILING EVERY THIRD SATURDAY.
hip ©©
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
Local Agents: Mcllwraith McEacharn Ltd., 94-96 William St., Melbourne; 117-119 Kim
William St., Adelaide; Fremantle, Perth, Albany; Howard Smith Ltd., Brisbane, Townsvtll
? n 0(
V
Gvc lists!
tl
jm-
-55
IF you wish your mount
to be a real source of
pleasure and delight you
will use the utmost care in;
the selection of the Hubs.
No bicycle can give you
real service unless these
component parts
are perfect.
Smooth and silky
running, long
wear and per-
fectly safe braking
are insured by
the fitting of the
Perry Improved
Coaster in con-
junction with
the Perry front hub.
Behind both these articles
is a manufacturing experi-
ence extending over many
years, a close and intimate
m
acquaintance with the
Cyclist’s needs and a repu-
tation second to none in the
Cycle Component World.
Few, very few Cyclists, are
there who do not know of
Perry Productions, but only
experience of
their actual ser-
vice will lead to
full appreciation
of their merits
and exclusive
features.
You may nof
have had that
experience,
therefore, for
your greater comfort and
enjoyment when awheel,
we suggest you put
yourself in touch with
our
Factory Representative: JOHN ARNOLD
Hardware House, 386 Post Office Place, Melb.
Box 871, G.P.O.
Perry £!Co. Ltd. BirminsJhaan.En£


Fashion in China
varying in
Chinawarc as in all
else, are constant in this
that a tea-cup and its saucer
must be exquisitely light.
English Bone China alone
has this perfection. One
of this season’s mostfashion-
ablc 'designs is illustrated.
To say that every piece
hears the name of Shelley
is to say that it is English
Bone China of the best.
Ask
TO SEE THE LATEST
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty V/hite
- China
Nursery Ware
/y Lucie Attweli
t Hilda Cowham
Dome stic Ware
Jelly Moulds
IN CASE OF
OBTAINING
LADENCE ST.
d
ďf
Old-World
„ Galleries. LTD.
Ou Duke Street, tlrosvenor Square, I
London, \V.I, Knqlancl
(1 doom from Otxford Strom, near Sclfridpc’i).
Cables. Oljjallery, Wt!*lu, London.
BUY YOUR KNUMBH ANTIQUES FROM
\\a urrrmgo for bo\lng, consular invoices and
dwlatfltlor. of antiquity, finsurance umj
delivery to your door lit tJlo very luwc.l
Antii(ur»- admitted uuty free lo Australia.
IX
0
$
A Dining Room all furnished in guaranteed
antiqucM (».ieach piece actually made nvnr
l<iO years itffo), for lire low cost of £3l. Full
illustrated particulars! in our Catalogue.
I Unstinted Cntalopitc and (luidtt. unit on
receipt, of lid. Australian stamp, contain* ;
(1) Complete price list; ISO plioloH ; 00 paged.
(2) Furnishing and color schemes Iry Mrs.
Barrett.
(3) "UwMl Household Hints." by TJ. Stanley
Barrett, architect; contains “Jlow to stain
deal floors to look like oak, and to last
20 yean,"; “llegt polish foi old furniture
and bow to make it"; "Cleaning
furniture, etc.”
(<) Old Furniture as it good Inveal ment.
(o) Hints on buying Antiques, on Fakes and
Historical notes.
OF) List of Hate# and Periods of Old Furniture.
(7) How to furnish your home in Antiques
for Jl too, giving full description of each
piece.
COCrQ.V. Sydney Buj.i.imN
I enclose fid. Australian stamp for above
catalogue.
a A MIS ...
ADDRESS
"Weak Woot
•Weah
Other recommended
Wolsey products:
WOLSEY LUSTRAL
Art. Silk Underwear
and Hosiery.
WOLSEY SPORTSMAN
Knitted Outerwear,
Pullovers.
Pure Wool Stockings for
Women, Half Hose for
Men, and f Hose and
Socks for Children.
WOLSEY Pure Wool
Underwear is all
pure, Australian
long * staple wool, correctly
fashioned to ensure comfort
and unrivalled satisfaction.
Made as only the world's
largest manufacturers can
make it. Wolsey Pure Wool
Underwear provides years
of faithful service and pro-
tection. Guaranteed un-
shrinkable, so cannot lose
its shape! Buy your Wolsey
to-day and look for the
Wolsey Head Trade Mark
on every garment.
WOLSETf
PURE WOOL UNDERWEAR
Made in England by WOLSEY Ltd., LEICESTER.
WOLSEY LTD., 316 Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
C.F.H;
“WALLARINGA” MANSIONS
NEUTRAL BAY, SYDNEY.
UNDER ENTIRELY NEW MANAGEMENT.
Occupying as it does, one of the picked
positions and absolutely the healthiest
on the shores of Sydney Harbor, quiet
and secluded, and within a short
distance of the City.
The Mansions are exceptionally well
built, having fine airy rooms over-
looking Sydney’s beautiful harbor;
also Lounges, Smoking Rooms, Tennis,
Croquet, Swimming Baths, Ball Room,
Guests’ Laundry, Electric Light.
The “Wallaringa” Mansions stand in
a fine position in Neutral Bay, and
the grounds and gardens are well kept.
During the day the views from “Wal-
laringa” are glorious, and at night
the myriad lights, across the harbor
and on the numerous Ferry Boats,
make a fairy-like scene that world-
wide travellers say is unequalled any-
where.
To maintain the reputation of these
well-known Mansions, guests are well
attended to and have every conveni-
ence and comfort. Correspondence
and Telegrams punctually attended to.
Terms from £3/3/- per week.
Apply, The Manager.
’Phones: X 2239, X 2267.
Telegrams: “Wallaringa, Sydney.”
The River’s Triumph.
A STORY OF THE FLOODS,
BY ELSIE M. BAILY.
WHO’S sick up the river?”
The mailman leaned through the
post-office window, his elbows resting
on the rough board that served as a counter.
Andy Dawson paused in his letter-sorting.
“Did you meet the doctor going back?”
“Saw him from the Swanbrook post
office.”
Andy sorted a few more letters. “Been
up to Clem Johnston’s. Clem’s missus is
sick—chill or something started it. Pretty
had, too; the doctor’s wired for a nurse to
come up to-morrow.”
“A chill, eh? How d’ya catch a chill this
weather? Don’t ya ever get any rain? I
been here nearly eighteen months, and I
haven’t seen a decent fall yet.”
Andy grinned. “You’ll know one of these
days. After a drought like this we’ll make
up for what we’ve missed. Twenty years
ago it was just like this —storms threatenin’
and goin’ off again, and then it started;
started when you could scarcely see a cloud
in the sky. It rose up from over the moun-
tains there in about ten minutes, and in
less ’an an hour the river was a banker.
You couldn’t cross it even on horseback for
weeks. It was the time Clem’s father died.
You never saw such a. funeral; the family
and the settlers on that side of the river
—you’ve seen the grave there on the bank —
and the parson and all the rest of the people
on this side, with the river roarin’ in be-
tween. Not a chance o’ crossin’; would lia’
cost any man Ids life to try. Even Clem
couldn’t lia’ crossed it then, and it takes a
good flood to stop a Johnston. Well, there
Avas the old white-haired minister readin’
the service on this side and poor old John-
ston bein’ lowered into the grave over on
the other bank, Avhile the river roared along
between. Somehow it seemed the old chap
would ha’ been pleased with it —would ha’
chosen to be buried on the bank with the
river singin’ alongside. The Johnstons were
the first people to settle up here. He’d
come to the river as a boy and loved it all
his days. Clem loves it just the same; I’ve
seen him crossing it when it was thunderin’
and boilin’ as though it would swallow a
mountain if it fell in, and not a scrap o’
harm would he come to. Fie used to say the
river knew its own, and no Johnston would
ever find a grave in it. It’s in the Johnston
blood. I’ve seen Jess, a kid of ten, sittin’
with her horse swimmin’ under her, and
laughin’. Avith her curly hair flyin’ out in
the wind, and the water up over her saddle.”
“His daughter? Didn’t know lie had a
daughter.”
“No; it’s nigh on ten years since Jess
left. She didn’t hit it Avith Clem. She was
a Johnston, every inch of her. There was
some bust-up and she cleared out. Mind
you, old Clem can be a mighty hard man.
I guess it Avasn’t much of a life across there
for a girl; but Clem couldn’t see it. He
never mentions her name—no one on the
river does, neither. Clem’s one o’ the best,
but, as I say, hard at times. Wouldn’t give
in if the world Avas cornin’ to an end, and
Jess took after him.”
't?” BUt the motller — wliat s h e think of
“She never let on; but you can never tell
with them quiet ones. I did hear she said
the river would call the girl back one day,;
but it’s nigh on ten years, and Lord knows
what became of the girl.” “Nigh on ten
years!”.he murmured again as the mailman
gathered up his bags.
* * * *
Clem Johnston walked wearily up the
steep bank from the river, and paused near
the gate to wipe the sweat from his face
.ffirvey the heavy, smoke-laden sky.
av ould it never rain ? The river hadn’t been
so low for twenty years. It was so dry and
hot; the heat, he thought, was part of the
trouble. ivith liis wife.
Passing inside, he looked with tender eyes
at the figure on the bed.
“How are you feeling n0w?.... Hadn’t I
better get Mrs. Dawson to come up?”
. I m easier now, Clem. I’ll manage all
right u bl l i'his nurse comes; then I suppose
it 11 be Poultiees and plasters no end I'm
tearfully hot; is there any chance of a
storm ?”
It does look black over the mountain;
maybe we 11 have the river roaring again.”
lie stopped abruptly and turned his eyes
thoughtfully toward the river. Suppose it
did come a storm !
The nurse wouldn’t be able to cross!” he
said aloud “I better get Mrs. Dawson.”
Oh rubbish, Clem. It would take half a
dozen storms to make the river so you
couldn t cross it after this drought. Don’t
you worry about the river!”
The sky still looked threatening as Clem
went to have a last look before going to
bed. I suppose the sun’ll be shinin’ hotter
edfy 6Ver m the mornin S>” he sa id deject-
Clem was a good sleeper, and the low
rumbling up in the mountains failed to dis-
! nb aim; even through the louder claps
closer doivn the valley he slept soundly on.
oho °ira S ° 118 r fe - With the first low groAvl
awake an d alert, listening to the
murmur of the wind and the louder
the thunder rolling down the valley,
until at last came clap after clap to the
accompamment of lightning and teeming
f a IV n V w d re in her brain, called
by t^ IS i bre Hi the sky, was writing
' b to V POn the wall of darkness
wl sarr °undcd her. The pain had come
S j-ao, and an involuntary groan brought
Olem out of his dreams.
sat u ?' Sure ly that roar Avas Avater
down the valley ! The river, mad
and as i<: roared over boulders
flats! ed through th e cornfields on the
nn?m! Urned to dl l s wife. She was tossing
■„*! S? " The ri '- er! n’« “'l-
-i S Jd kening , fear gripped him. He
on%hp <L° Pei i $ e door aQ d stared down
field* and tl V at thundered its way by
hi« d life boH ead ai i d ' the first time in
nis lire he knew fear of it.
• R™? calling, she had said. Was it call-
river ei afu°J n i hl - m ? Go( ? in Heaven, was the
fathers heff,r bei i n - g s ° dear to him and bis
in the end? Um ’ going to turn destroyer
He leaned on the doorpost and wept.
Anna was all he had. O God ! Why had he
driven the girl away?
The river thundered on, mad with con-
quest. How he had loved to see it so!
Loved it in all its moods, as Johnstons ever
loved it! It had roared like this the night
Jess was born! The nurse—what had she
said? A true Johnston, born with the song
of the river in her ears!
But Jess had not loved the river; she
had hated it; called it cruel; cursed it—and
gone. He bent his head lower. He was
alone, desolate, cut off from everyone. Even
the telephone line would be down. Cut off
—his wife dying and the rain still falling in
sheets!
In the post office Andy lifted the receiver
from the hook.
“Yes? Swanbrook, yes. Clem Johnston’s
line? Of course it’s down. How do you
think it’d stand forty million tons of water
thunderin’ over it.... The nurse! No good
her coinin’ now unless she’s got a pair o’
wings. The river’s as wild as Niagara Falls,
and about as safe to cross; and she’d never
get this far, anyway. What? She’ll ride
round the hills! Good Lord ! Leavin’
Benson’s n0w!.... Hollo! Hello! Hello!
Curse the line! That one’s gone too now.”
He put nit the receiver. “Good Lord ! She’ll
never get over to Clem’s!”
While Andy was saddling his horse Clem
was sitting beside his wife in a dull and
terrible agony. She was so still, so strangely
quiet, and her breathing was so labored. Was
this the end? lit; bent nearer —the blue
lips were moving.
“The river—can’t you hear it calling,
Clem ?”
Hear it! God, who couldn’t hear it? And
its song was the song of death. The river he
loved had turned traitor in his hour of need!
Going to the door lie peered out. Darkness
was closing in. lie returned and waited by
the bedside while the hands of the clock
moved slowly round.
Suddenly he straightened up. What was
that?
Gently unclasping the clinging fingers he
hurried to the door. Straining his ears, he
heard high above the river’s roar an unmis-
takable ‘coo-ee!’
The clouds had parted, and the moon
shone full upon the turbulent waters. Away
over on the headland opposite the flat
where his maize, nursed so carefully through
the drought, now lay hidden, he could make
out several horsemen. That would be Andy
on the grey; who were the others? The
irony of it —trying to bring help now.
As he watched they moved away up stream
till they reached the flat on that side of the
river; then, to his amazement, one rider
moved _ forward alone right into the wide-
spreading waters on the flat. lie rushed
nearer the river to watch, and as the rider
neared the main stream he saw, with new
astonishment, that it was a woman. The
nurse ! Good God ! she couldn’t cross —it
was impossible; she was mad, they were all
mad to let her attempt it.
Frantically he rushed, slithering, down
the steep path that brought him to the
water’s edge.
The horse was right into the stream mnv.
He Avanted to call out —to warn the AA'oman
that it was impossible! Fascinated he saw
horse and rider almost disappear as the
boiling tide caught them and swirled them
downstream like bits of driftAvood. It was
horrible.
But no—there they were in the middle of
the stream right over the long hole where the
Avaters swept more evenly. Surely she had
chosen her place—followed some plan.
Foot by foot, as the flood bore them down,
they fought their way nearer the bank. If
only they could make the stony sloping bank
at the bend near the bottom of tli e long
hole! Clem raised his hands above his head,
and from his lips there rose a prayer, deep
and agonised; yet strangest prayer on Chris-
tian tongue it was offered to the river on
whose breast a woman and a horse wer-
battling for life. “Be merciful, be merciful
and spare!”
He stood watching, scarcely breathing, as
horse and rider swept past, still fighting.
Then horror again seized him; they were
being carried directly into the great Avliirl-
pool that would rob them of victory after
all, would hurl them on the jagged rocks by
the wall of the cliff, and then toss them like
corks back into mid-stream.
“Look out! The Avhirlpool !” he shouted.
If she heard, she showed no sign, but kept
her course, going near enough to make use of
its drawing power, yet keeping out of its
grip. God ! What a wonder !
Only the horse’s head was visible above
the water; she had slipped from the saddle
and Avas guiding and encouraging the horse.
A feAv more feet and they would be out of
the main current, right over the stony bar.
Would they have strength enough to make
it; Would they? He clenched his teeth,
then gave a mighty shout as the horse’s
shoulders were thrust out of the water.
He rushed downstream to help the rider
out on to the bank, while from the watchers
on the other side there burst a cheer.
Releasing her hold on the trembling horse
she caught both his arms in her hands.
fc>he Avas speaking; her voice was weak
from the strain. He bent nearer to catch
the words while the river roared more exul-
tingly than ever.
n^j a^ler \ have come! The river has
called me back.
A Dead Bird.
Consider this, a poor bird’s skeleton,
How empty now!
How void of all th e music played upon
A leafy bough!
Yet this a lover was, a poet too,
Till dumbly Death did both undo,
Chilling the breath, the blood, until
The heart was still,
And but a little heap of feathers lay
Upon the windy way.
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.


QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
E. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
/ora Lifetimes
Writing”
TODD
O'
$
II HiA
■
pe-^yni:'
A useful companion to the
"SWAN " pen. It has a
thin lead which requires
no sharpening, and is useful
for presentation purposes.
Prices front
71 6
A PPRECIATION of a
“Swan” Pen in-
creases with lengthening
of service. One
by one its many good
qualities, inbuilt by high
manufacturing skill and
careful workmanship
become apparent to the
owner.
You cannot buy a pen
which will give you better
value. You cannot use a
pen which will give
greater dependability
and usefulness. For the
“Swan” Pen, once it en-
ters your service, will
remain with you for a
lifetime.
is
PEN
Choose it now—use it a lifetime
“ Swan ” Self-Filling Pens from 17/6 upwards.
MABIE, TODD & CO.. LTD.,
Head Office : Swan House, 133 & 135, Oxford St., London, W.L
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depdt:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
"Swan” Pens, “ Blackbird" Pens, ‘‘Swan”lnk and
“ Fyne-Poynt” Pencils.
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS.
S 3
In Days of Old
White hair was
all the vogue.
In modern days
grey or white
hair is consid-
ered a sign of
appr o a c h i n g
age.
It is NOT "THE
THING.”
All traces of Grey can readily be removed
by an application of
Dr. Allen’s (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
Sold at all Cftemf.it* and Stores.
Harmless, easy
to apply, can-
not be detected
Australian Agents:
DUERDIN AND
SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street,
Melbourne.
d
Get the News of
AH Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Rending
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
BALD OR GREY HEADS
OFTEN MEAN FAILURE.
Many a woman has lost her charm and many a
man his job and popularity through a grey or bald
head! Don’t let the world say you’re getting old —
keep young! Get rid of your grey hairs this easy
way: Get a package of Vi-Glo from the chemist
and rub into the scalp. Vi-Glo contains a new in-
gredient that wakes up the color and growth cells
and quickly brings back young, abundant hair. The
cost is only 3/-, including a special shampoo-
very little to stand between you and popularity.
If no chemist near, send 3/4 to Vi-Glorient Co.,
Kembla Building, Sydney, and outfit will reach you
by post. Satisfaction positively guaranteed.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Legal Notice.
IF EDWARD JOHN GREEN, late of
Wellington, New Zealand, and Sydney,
New South Wales, Clerk, will communicate
with Messrs. D. M. FINDLAY & MOIR,
Solicitors, 215 Lambton Quay, Wellington,
he will hear something to his advantage.
Any person knowing his whereabouts or
able to afford any information regarding Lum
is requested to advise the abovenamed firm
thereof.
Missing Friends.
RE PATRICK GRAHAM, Deceased.—
Will any person knowing the where
abouts of any relative of PAIKILK
GRAHAM, formerly of Tunnack. in las-
mania, who died at the New Town Infirmary,
llobart, on 13th November, C< 2 , I T1I " U ° 1 ,
cate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Hobart?
WALTER CHARLTON NEVILLE.—
Would the relations communicate with
his wife, ALICE NEVILLE. Very urgent.
5C> Canterbury Road, Middle 1 ark, 1 ictoria.
INVINCIBLE
Four-cycle Marine Motors. Made in Australia
since 1906. Thousands in use. Fully guaran-
teed for five years and all Spare Farts always
available. Write for catalogues to-day.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS, LIMITED,
Sydney Showroomt: 53 North George Street.
Lumbago
A Form of Rheumatism.
This painful trouble will often defy ordinary rheu-
matic salts and kidney pills, but it yields to Harri-
son’s Pills. The reason is that Harrison s Pills get
rid of the cause as nothing else can. The best
and quickest relief known. Every chemist has
Harrison’s Pills, in three sizes, at 2/-, 3/- and 5/-.
Don’t wait; don’t suffer. Try Harrison’s Pills now—
it’s a uric-acid remedy you can really trust.
X
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess Insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of thi»
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
SYDNEY.
OnDOSite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.’
PRICE 3<i -
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
YOUR HOME t
V Deserves Good Music
DYNAMIC
/PE4I\EE
wiping the country
u*-» for good reason. It’s
as different as the new
phonographs are from
the old. Cordova A. C.
model, below, with
power amplifier, wal-
nut cabinet,! £62,
unit only, £45.
«fi
ASK YOUR NEAREST RADIO
DEALER TO DEMONSTRATE.
Australian Patent
No. 7225.


f()c Pretty!
It)es)aintiji
©e Attractive!
fye cV l?exom
* Snkl
If you would have a
perfect complexion, be a
Rexona Girl and use only
Rexona Soap. Millions of
Rexona Girls have multi-
plied their beauty by the
daily use of Rexona Soap.
Oily skin, blackheads and
large pores are quickly
overcome by Rexona Soap,
the aristocrat of Soaps,
Is. per tablet.
m*
Miss PHYLLIS NICHOLSON, the beautiful
young Australian actress now appearing in
"Rio Rita,” uses only Rexona Soap and writes
as follows: "I use Rexona Soap exclusively.
It is ideal for the hair and complexion.”
For Any Travel
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
d
The accredited Agents of all Steam
Ship Lines. Their expert guidance and
special facilities cost you nothing.
TO EUROPE 1930
Apply now for accommodation, as
berthing plans for all steamers are open.
WINTER TOURS
To Queensland, Bali, Java, Siam,
Japan, Hawaii, Malaya, Sumatra, Indo-
China (Saigon, Pnom-Penh, Angkor).
STEAMER EXCURSIONS
Cairns, South Sea Islands, Fiji, Tahiti,
Honolulu, Ceylon, Java, Japan and
Manila, etc.
COOKS’ TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
Are the safest and most convenient
means of carrying funds.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street,
ADELAIDE:
49 Grenfell Street.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
A Song in the Night.
FRANK LOUAT
SETS A PROBLEM: DID THE PARSON COMPOUND
A FELONYI
THE Rev. John McFadden awoke with
a start. The fire in the grate had
burnt low and it was almost dark in
the small sitting-room. Leaning forward in
the armchair in which he had been dozing,
he held his watch towards the glowing em-
bers. It was half-past nine. He yawned,
and rose with the intention of going to bed.
Then a sound —probably that which had
awakened him—fell upon his ears. Some-
one was playing in the street, evidently upon
a primitive kind of violin—and the window
was wide open. The familiar strains of
Dvorak’s “Humoresque” floated in upon the
still night air.
He crossed to the window ami looked out
upon the street. Something in the unseen
man’s playing had riveted his attention.
The violin, if it was such, was obviously of
the poorest, for its notes were thin and
wheezy. But the hands that held it were
the hands of an artist. The Rev. John was
a lover of music. He listened now to flaw-
less pitch and to a warmth and beauty of
interpretation which even the defects of the
instrument could not conceal.
Now it had stopped. He peered out
through the window and was able to dis-
tinguish a dark form nearly opposite the
house. The street was ill-lighted, for the
suburb which had fallen to the Rev. John
McFadden’s care was poor and dingy.
Faintly the murmur of traffic rose like a
giant whisper, since by that paradox
peculiar to great cities this street of lowly
dwellings stood hard by the throbbing heart
of Sydney. He gripped the window-sill and
listened. The man had started to play again.
With growing wonderment McFadden found
himself listening to Tschaikowsky’s “Chanson
Triste.” As tire slow, tender strains rose
and fell, something of the emotion of the
artist communicated itself to him, for the
song carried his memory back many years.
He stood fascinated, silent, till the last note
had died upon the air. He saw the player
moving to the door of a house opposite. A
bell rang, and presently a long chink of light
announced that the door had been opened a
few inches. But only for a bare second;
then it slammed again.
With a sigh, as if some spell had been
broken, McFadden turned from the window
and switched on the light. He was a man
of spare build, not over-tall, and greyed by
his fifty years. There - was depth in his
steady eyes, and a sensitive kindly mouth
belied the wrinkles of sternness which time
had left upon him. Mechanically he was
beginning to arrange some papers on which
he had been working for his next Sunday’s
sermon, when there came a knock on the
front door. Doubtless the musician. He strode
from the room, and, crossing the small pas-
sage which adjoined it, flung open the door.
The hall light shone dimly on the untidy
figure of a man whose cast of features be-
trayed the southern European. Thrust under
his left arm was the instrument on which
he had been playing—a wooden box with a
kind of handle screwed or nailed upon it, and
having strings mounted after the fashion of
a violin. A bow of sorts was gripped in his
left hand.
“Will you give a small coin, please?”
The inquiry was made in good English, but
with the unmistakable accent of Italy.
The minister thrust his hand into his pocket.
As he fumbled for some money, he said :
“You play your Tscliaikowsky very well.”
To his surprise the musician made no reply.
McFadden produced a shilling. As the man
took it eagerly with a muttered word of
thanks, the other looked at him keenly, and
noticed for the first time his sunken cheeks.
“Are you hungry?” he asked.
“Starving.” The word was spoken dully
and without emotion.
McFadden was seized by a sudden impulse.
“Come in,” he said shortly but kindly, “I can
give you something to eat.”
The Italian hesitated, and seemed to be
about to refuse. Then, making up his mind,
he stepped across the doorway and followed
the other into the sitting-room.
McFadden indicated a chair and told his
guest to wait. Within a few minutes he had
placed on the small table a loaf of bread, half
a cold pie, and a glass of water. The Italian
ate hungrily, but with a restraint that spoke
of breeding. Meanwhile, McFadden observed
him with a new interest. Seen in the light,
he was less prepossessing than ever. Ilis face
was unshaven, and his clothing nearly in
rags, while the fixed expression of his coun-
tenance was sullen and almost savage. Above
his hollow cheeks a pair of fierce dark eyes
shone ferociously from the shadow of his
shaggy brows. Some chord of memory stirred
in the clergyman’s mind. Those eyes—he
had seen them surely?
The Italian had now dulled the keen edge
of his appetite.
“You play with great art, my friend.”
Once again the Italian treated the com-
pliment with silence, if not contempt.
“May I ask your name?” said McFadden
suddenly.
The stranger hesitated. “Paganelli,” he said.
“Not Luigi Paganelli, once first violin of
the State Orchestra?”
“I am Luigi Paganelli.”
McFadden stared. “How strange is life,”
he murmured. “I knew you in those years,
though from a distance. Ah, what would I
not have given then for that power in your
fingers, for your gift of interpretation!”
It was Paganelli's turn to be astonished.
He looked narrowly at the other’s face, as
if to assure himself that there was no jest,
and then glanced quickly at McFadden’s
clerical collar and suit of black clothes.
“You are surprised,” said McFadden, on
wffiom the glance had not been lost, “but I
have loved the violin all my life. I began
to learn when I was twelve, and all the
time I w-as studying for holy orders I played
far more often than I prayed.” He paused,
and passed his hand across his brow. “But
that is all over—long ago. It was another life.
Yet it all comes back to me now—vividly.
I think it _ was the way you played the
‘Chanson Tiste.’ I knew every note of it.”
“And now—do you never play?” asked
Paganelli, who seemed to be rousing him-
self for the first time from the sullen apathy
of manner he had shown since he entered the
room.
McFadden shook his head slowly. “I had
visions once, wild hopes of becoming a master
of the violin,” he said. “There were times
when I felt that the spirit of music breathed
within me. But the higher ranges of tech-
nique were beyond me. They said”—he held
up his left hand as he spoke—“my little
finger was too short.”
Paganelli looked at the hand. “But that
is not fatal to playing,” he said.
“No, but it is fatal to mastery—and
nothing less would content me. I had to
choose between the violin and the Church.
Three years after I was ordained I put my
violin into its case—for ever.”
Silence followed. Outside a cold rain had
begun to fall.
“Did you part with it?” asked Paganelli.
“The violin? No, I have it still. It is
my most cherished possession. It is a fine
old French instrument, made by one of the
masters of the early nineteenth century.
Would you care to see it?”
Paganelli nodded and his eyes glistened.
McFadden crossed to a corner or the room and
pulled aside a curtain that hid some shelves.
Reaching high, he lifted down a black
violin case, and placed it with tender hands
upon the table. lie opened it, and drew
forth a violin varnished to a rich reddish
gold, which even to the untrained eye was of
exquisite workmanship.
But the eye of the Italian was not un-
trained. He gave an exclamation and sprang
to his feet, almost snatching the instrument
from McFadden’s hands.
“Ah. but this is a Pique!” he cried. “You
will let me try the tone?”
The minister smiled, and handed him the
bow, adding: “Of course, it is not tuned.”
With deft, light fingers, Paganelli drew
the bow caressingly across each of the open
strings, and not till he had made the flute-
like note of the E string trail away in a
diminuendo that melted into the silence of
the night did he speak.
“Magnificent! It is a great piece of
work!” There was no mistaking the enthu-
siasm that lit tip his swarthy features. “And
you never play it at all?”
“No. The dust gathers on it. Until to-
night I had not so much as taken it from its
case for five years. But I would never part
with it. As I told you, I value it above all
else I possess.”
“Yes, it is worth much money,” said the
Italian, his gleaming eyes still fastened upon
it.
“A hundred, two hundred pounds perhaps
—more money than I could ever have afforded
to pay for it. It was m:y father’s last gift
to me.” McFadden was speaking now
almost to himself. “But I do not value it
because of the price it would bring. To me
it is a symbol. I cherish it because it en-
shrines a part of my life that is lost for
ever.” He took the instrument from the
Italian’s hands and returned it to its case.
“And you, my good friend,” he asked, after
replacing the case on the shelf from which he
had taken it, “by what ill-luck have you,
with your great talents, been reduced to
these straits?”
The instant he had spoken the question he
regretted it. For, truth to tell, there was
little enough doubt as to the cause. Paganelli’s
mottled complexion and bloodshot eyes told
only too plainly the story of abandonment
to liquor. There returned to his mind a
half-formed impression sustained when the
Italian had first entered the room, that he
was even now slightly under the influence
of drink. Yet when he had held the violin,
McFadden remembered, his hand had been
as steady as a rock.
Paganelli scowled. “What is that to you?”
he answered almost savagely.
“Nothing at all,” returned McFadden ; “it
is, of course, your affair entirely, And now
would you like anything more to eat?”
The other understood this to be a dis-
missal. He shook his head, and, gathering
up his own quaint instrument, made for
the door, followed by McFadden.
“Good night, and I wish you better luck
in the future!”
“Thank you,” replied Paganelli. He hesi-
tated in the doorway and looked quickly at
the clergyman.
“I am cold,” he said—“do you have an
old vest that I could put on?”
McFadden reflected for an instant upon
his own none too extensive store of clothing.
But a glance at the other’s tattered clothes
decided him.
“Yes,” he said, “wait here a moment.”
He went down the passage to a room at
the end. Two minutes later he returned
carrying a garment.
But Paganelli was not to be seen. Per-
haps he had gone back to the sitting-room
.... The room was empty.... A sudden
impulse moved him to pull aside the curtain
covering the shelves. The violin was gone!
With a smothered exclamation he dashed
from the room and ran to the front gate.
The rain had stopped, but the night was
darker than ever—and the street was empty.
All the rage of his temperamental nature,
winch as a clergyman he had spent half a
lifetime trying to discipline, surged up with-
in lnm at the thought of the man’s ingrati-
tude, and even more at the thought of the
loss of his treasure. The thing was mon-
strous. He would give the matter at once
to the police. There was no telephone con-
nected to his house, but the local police-
station was only a few hundred vards away
He put on his overcoat and walked rapidiv
up the street.
“Yes,” said the sergeant, after McFadden
had described his visitor, “I know him, and
I ve a pretty good idea where he lives. Quite
hkely he s taken the violin straight home
to bide it. and if you 11 come down with me
now to identify your property we may catch
him red-handed.”
McFadden assented. He remembered as a
curious circumstance that half an hour ago
he had been tired out. But the stirring of
(Continued on next page.)


Dr. Zam-Buk”
(First-aid Expert)
C 1 VERY home should be up-to-date in its
•*— l first-aid equipment. Prompt measures
of the right sort save pain, worry and expense
—not to mention danger to life and limb.
You cannot, therefore, afford to be without
Zam-Buk, the “surgery in a two-inch box.”
It is no use in an emergency finding on your
shelf a lardy ointment that has gone rancid
and lost its potency. You want Zam-Buk
because, being free from both animal fat and
mineral drugs, it keeps indefinitely and is
always of even medicinal strength. This
high efficiency as a first-aid and skin remedy
comes from the rare herbal origin and careful
scientific production of Zam-Buk.
Zam-Buk soon takes the pain out of an
injury or sore place, it allays inflammation
and swelling in its own irresistible way; and,
after drawing out all impurity, it promotes
growth of new skin.
-Buk.
am
FREE Samples of Zam-Buk Balm and Medici-
nal Soap will be sent, post paid, on request.
Forward name and address to Messrs. C. E.
Fulford (Aus.) Ltd., P.O. Box 21, Surry Hills,
N. S. W. Regular size boxes 1/6 and 3/6.
Mr. Brush Lock, in a measure, satisfied
Marie that she had not seen Madame before
meeting her in his studio. He told her she
had been an artists’ model in Paris. She
had married an Englishman. They had emi-
grated from France to Australia. Her hus-
band died soon after their arrival. She
intended to go back to France, but in the
meanwhile she was stranded, and to help
make ends meet she had taken to her
old calling. She was becoming known in
the artistic world, and there were prospects
that she might be able to scratch out a
living as a professional model in Sydney.
After a few meetings, Marie and the
woman became friendly. She told Marie
that she was not a widow, as Mr. Lock
supposed, but to say so helped her in her
search for employment. She would trust
Marie, as a child of Boheme, as a French
girl, not to betray her. Helas! It was a
wicked world, and a poor woman had need
of friends and of lies to cover her sins!
It was a bonne chance that they lived in the
same lodging-house—that was a discovery
worth while to make!
Carducci, in the background, was not un-
observant of what was taking place. He
repeatedly remarked that he had not seen
the husband of the Frenchwoman whom
Marie had met, and who, Marie said, lived
upstairs. Mrs. Carducci said she did not
wonder that her husband had not seen the
man since he, Carducci, was away early
and home late, but she was surprised that
she had not seen him herself, nor had Marie
been more favored. Jeannette might have
considered him to be a myth had she not
heard him—a Frenchman, she was sure—
singing snatches of French songs.
The elusiveness of the unknown man
made Carducci both anxious and curious
to see him. With his wonderful nose, he
thought he sensed something that might
be to his own advantage. He told Marie
to beg the woman to ask her husband to
come some night to the eating-house.
Night after night passed without a visit;
then one evening, the man, having over-
come his fear, if it was fear that held him,
went to the shop, lurking first in the shadows
the better to see without being seen what
was taking place within.
It was the hour of nine, a time when
business was slack. Carducci in this
lull usually smoked one of his cigars
and argued with Donzetti, who was
the cook of the firm. Every night
a dispute took place between them as to
what were “broken victuals.” Carducci made
a nightly practice of feeding deadbeats
who chose to come with cans or plates to
the back door of the shop to receive a
helping of “broken victuals.” This act of
charity afforded the Italian much religious
consolation, as his offering of a few sous to
the Sisters of Mercy in Paris for les Enfants
Pauvres had done. When the hungry ones
came, Carducci fed them. Afterwards he
played his two tunes, “Funiculi, Funicula,”
and the waltz from “Faust.” Even Don-
zetti, though well paunched, would some-
times stop for a minute to catch hold of
the boy Pedro, the dish washer, and twirl
him round in a dance step or two.
It was while the Frenchman, unseen and
unsuspected, stood watching the eating-
house that Carducci commenced to play his
tunes.
The man listened listlessly at first, and
then became interested; the waltz tune
followed “Funiculi! Funicula!”
“Bon Dieu! Saccaco!” he ejaculated
excitedly.
The playing ceased. The man lowered
his cloth cap on his forehead, though any
recognition offhand was improbable. A
man’s appearance changes in twenty years
even of a well-ordered life. The change
is likely to be much more pronounced when
a man has spent the years in the tropics
—when he has toiled and sweated in jungles
and been laid low again and again with
malaria.
It had been this lurking mans fate to
be out in the tropical heat, day after day,
to sweat, as he worked, without shelter,
under the eyes of prison warders. The
warders were in suits of white duck; they
shaded themselves beneath large, double-
covered umbrellas, white outside and green
within. But the man had no protection
from the heat. Was it not to be expected
that his appearance would change, even as
his ferocity increased, in the fret and fume
of the purgation?
Twenty years of such a life! Up at sun-
rise, he had to be aboard one of the convict
barges to be towed across the harbor to the
quay at Noumea. One of a roadmaking
gang, he worked under the eyes of sur-
veillants who had revolvers hidden under
their white braided blouses. The convicts
were even the scoff of the aboriginals, les
Canaques, who showed no mercy to escapees
when they were caught in the bush. Scum
of Paris, scum to be withered up in the j
heat of the tropical sun!
Vastly different had the lurking figure
found the life of a recidiviste in New Cale-
donia from that of an apache in Paris.
Almost everything was dissimilar. The
stately trees in the Bois de Vincennes were
replaced by the undulating trunks of the
plume-tipped cocoanut palms, fringing the
white sand-ribbed shore of the man’s island-
prison. Outside that prison the surf was
ever booming on the outer reef, a reef that
was a lurking menace to any small boats of
daring recidivistes who tried to escape
The man, slouching and listening in the
vicinity of Carducci’s eating-house, had felt
the crushing hand of prison discipline. But
he still had courage, and beneath the white-
and-black tweed cap was a head full of
rebellion and hatred against society.
After a pause he entered the eating-house
and seated himself in one of the ill-lighted
wooden cubicles, upon one of two forms
placed on either side of a table covered
with a black cloth, much stained, for the
patrons of Carducci and Donzetti were not
fastidious in their eating. He seated him-
self so that his left cheek was in shadow,
next to the brown wall.
Carducci, coatless, on seeing him enter
the shop put his fiddle down and went to
this customer who had come into the
place so quietly. The Italian looked inter-
rogatively, expecting an order.
The man peered searchingly at Carducci
for a moment; then, being sure of his
recognition of the Italian, pointed to the
fixed form on the other side of the table
and said: “Sit there, Saccaco!”
(To be continued.)
old memories, together with the startling
development which liad followed, had ban-
islied sleep from his mind. He felt strangely
excited.
“A queer chap that,” resumed the ser-
geant as they strode together down the street,
“Used to play in a big orchestra, so I’ve
heard. There was some trouble over a
woman—and then drink. That finished him.
I see him round here pretty often—generally
half-drunk. Ought to get a year for this,
Keep him off the whisky anyway.”
McFadden made no reply. His thoughts
were far away, fumbling again at that chord
in his life which had been silent for so long,
They were walking at last along a narrow
and wretched alleyway of Surry Hills.
Squalid tenements, mostly in darkness, were
crowded close together on either hand. The
road was almost deserted. A woman with
lips of carmine peered from a lighted door-
way as they passed. She saw the police uni-
form and shrank from view.
Suddenly the sergeant motioned for silence,
and pointed ahead of them to the right,
McFadden saw a small, two-roomed cottage,
Unlike most of the others it had a low
front gate, and stood back about ten feet
from the alley. As he peered at it through
the darkness it seemed to him the most
wretched and tumble-down dwelling he had
seen. The door was ajar, possibly because it
had no lock, and a light was burning inside,
As they approached noiselessly, the ser-
geant seized the other’s arm. “Listen,” lie
whispered—“we’ve got him!”
The two men paused motionless at the
gate. From within came the sound of a violin
being softly tuned.
With a muttered “Come on,” the ser-
geant silently opened the gate and had
half-stepped inside when McFadden laid a
quick hand on him.
“Stop!-” he whispered fiercely.
With a strange feeling McFadden began to
listen to his violin being played as he had
never heard it played before. Schubert’s
“Ave Maria!” As the rich notes of the
great Romanticist’s masterpiece fell upon his
ears he felt anew that fascination which
had held him spellbound at his window an
hour before, but with a tenfold power. The
artistry of Paganelli was drawing now from
the mellow tones of the old violin a song
of passionate beauty and sadness. Now the
rich strains rose and fell, gaining in volume
and intensity.
McFadden caught his breath, entranced.
How well he knew those notes! The strange
emotion that had stirred him —longing, sad-
ness, devotion, exaltation, it was none of
these, yet all of them —surged within him till
it possessed his whole being.
Paganelli played on, oblivious of all save
his art. Now the climax —that vibrant
double-stopping, each rich chord singing its
way like a voice of infinite sweetness. All,
now the song was softer —it was ending.
Like perfect jewels fashioned one by one, the
falling cadences whispered the dying melody.
Tensely, as though in a trance, McFadden
listened until the last faint note had melted
into the night. Then he plucked the other by
the sleeve, drawing him towards the street.
“He is a master,” he said thickly; “the
violin is his.” _ .
The sergeant stared at him. “His?
“I have given him the violin.”
“You have given him the violin?” repeated
the sergeant uncomprchendingly.
“I give it to him now. He has more right
to it than I. Let us go.”
Slanting Shadows.
Upon a high hill resting
Through drowsy afternoon,
When every leaf was sleepy
And every bloom aswoon,
And bees were all too-slumbrous
On honeyed flowers to feast,
To-day I watch long shadows
Go creeping towards the east.
Tree-shadows and rock-shadows
(While still were wind and wing,
And birds of song sat gasping
With throats too- parched to sing)
On ferns and flowers and grasses
That yearned for dewy shade
A benison of coolness
In kindly mercy laid.
Limbs stretched on velvet verdure.
Head pillowed on a mound,
In watching them, the shadows,
I sweet employment found:
For as they lengthened eastward
O’er petal, blade and spray—
Like angels sent to succor
Folk pierced with pain were they.
Upon that green bill resting
There came this thought to me
What, while I watched them straying
From high-set rock and tree,
Though many folk go grieving,
And many crave for rest,
Not all who dwell in shadow
Are utterly unblest.
N.S.W.
EODERIC QUINN.


t-i'
#1 §]
mx
V
i J
r jfirz
mPr!
A !
,4*r*
£s?•}'. ■ ■ >*-
WESTINGHOUS
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
a
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
rflE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD..
Queensland Agents—HOJL.AIISS « CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. OHice—ll3-107 T’eatberaton Street, Wellington
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Victorian Office—." Chancery House/’ 485 liourke Street, Melbourne
South Australian Agents: Messrs. XXDER, SMITH A CO., LTO.i Adelaide, S.A.
Always “First'* in Queensland Advertising.
The BRISBANE COURIER
HAS AGAIN PROVED ITS SUPERIORITY AS
QUEENSLAND’S LEADING ADVERTISING
MEDIUM.
In 1927 the “Courier” earned 9,070 columns more than its
morning contemporary. In 1928 the “Courier” increased its
lead by 386 columns, making a grand total of 9,456 columns
over its morning contemporary. *
It’s simply because the “(30URIER” is first in Queensland in
CIRCULATION, ADVERTISING AND INFLUENCE.
Rate Cards and specimen copies from ROBT. D. FISHER,
74 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone B 5007.
Published bp the Brisbane ’Newspaper Co., "Courier” Building, Queen
Street, Brisbane; also publishers of the “Queenslander” gnd “Sports Referee
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town and
Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and each
issue is eagerly read by. men, women and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays. Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercurv, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: -F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 22S
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: ‘Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
tbe Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State, agencies of
Messrs. Qffk don & Ootch, price 1 Id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Isead Offices:
King Willrtim Street, Adelaide.
» N.S.W* Representative:
WILSON, 2218 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Teleijione, MA3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper.
To-day, in the great State of Queensland, the newspaper that
offers to merchants and manufacturers unquestionably the
finest “cover” in the daily paper field is
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
Circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be
greater than that of any other Queensland dally.
For rates and other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE,
First Floor, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN"
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
Bed-turn id a food
time -4uC any.
timeio the iiqht
time to take
i fadi on*
V
£
SpvWs'
pm
Worth a
I Guinea
a Box.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
contains everything that women
should know—from kitchen to
drawing-room, from cradle to
old age. It is the most remark-
able threepenny - worth ever
printed.
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
u
9P
Jsd.
S?
$
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern' Tasmania the
same day of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner“ Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from ;
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd., Mr. V. W. Margetts, Mr. W. G. Dougan,
73-75 Patterson Street, 122 Flinders Street, 701 Herald Building,
Launceston. Melbourne. 66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ď
0°
s®'
nO (5 6<
Mi 01 : *
*<**
o'*
.*•*' ..**l
.•* t^e? 0, S 1> 4
.•*r^ 6 ‘or>
..•• <<■


. . . Its
FULL SIZE
v —makes PLYMOUTH
loom far above all others
in cash value . •
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW
ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Larke, Neave Sr Carter
Ltd., Sydney.
Vic.: Collins Motors Piy., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
Qld.: Ward Motors Ltd., Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors
Ltd., Adelaide.
West. Aust.: William Attwood,
Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Co., Wellington.
New Guinea: W. R. Carpenter Sf,
Co. Ltd., Rabaul,
•yyHEN you realise
that the new
Plymouth is the only
full-sized car in the
lowest-priced field
you see at once the
reason for its imme-
diate and overwhelm-
ing acceptance.
In addition you ob-
tain distinctive style
and smartness—un-
precedented richness
of upholstery and in-
terior appointments.
Speed, power, pick-
up with quiet and
smoothness you never
expected for such
money from the
“Silver-Dome” high-
compression engine
using any gasoline;
and the safety of in-
ternal expanding
hydraulic 4-wheel
brakes, sure in any
weather.
With such obvious
advantages it is not
surprising that the
millions who count
the cost of motoring
have instantly recog-
nised the new Ply-
mouth as the greatest
cash value in the
lowest-priced field.
C H RYSLER-
P 302
