

J. C. Hutton Prop. Ld., Manufacturers
, //
H§pss;
p mm#
ir A
m M
9
wfA
k
m
«
STOCKED BY ALL FIRST CLASS SHOPS
* wy y rt/r/Y/1
m §
Ik;: k
1
WINDSOR,LUNCHEON, FRANKFURT, PORK
BRAND
- ,,
••
• -
mmsa
jft
'
IW
CJEN U IN E‘PI N E A PPb
ACON HAS
iflll m> € ®XMk HI «
i -
i
ON THE SKIN
2 BLUE STRIP
• /<
"
-
mmMm
WWmM
* :
: ;-. r i
fig
:
>■ , - ' ■#.% / ' . ...
'--A. //*
j/f
>• w
u
PI NEAPPLE "quality is superior ,ns l?J"other ple
The Bulletin
w
Vol. 50. —No. 2569.
Wednesday, May 8, 1929*
Price 6d.
ftegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Danish the woes of the winter,
There’s nothing in winter to shun,
Make yourself feel like a sprinter,.
Make it a season of fun.
Banish your colds and complaining.
Such ills there’s no need to endure.
There’s aid for good-health regaining
In Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt,
\Y/RITE FOR THE LIBRARY CATA-
w LOGUE AND LISTS on all subjects,
wl>ich will be forwarded on application, post
free, to
DYMOCK’S IBOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LLYSAGHT*
o
0
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
HVT 3
Love Me and the Luck is Yours!
As I was saying to Tabitha: Men are fools; why should they work for
a living when they can pick up wealth like this? Listen! All you have to
do is to look at me, love me, and the shilling’s mine, so to speak, but
the fortune’s yours—£lo,ooo of it. Nobody ever failed who trusted
Peter
THE NEW SOUTH WALES FIRE BRIGADES’ ART UNION
FOR HOSPITALS, AMBULANCES, AND CHARITY.
(Sanctioned by the Attorney'General)
©
©
I AM PETER
THE LUCK 6RINOER.
TAIS IS YOUR LUCKY D&
SEND ALONG AT OHCE
ill.donmu
£lO,OOO in Prizes. First Prize a solid Gold Helmet, valued
at £3000; Second Prize a Golden Casket of Diamonds valued
at £1000; Third Prize a Diamond Tiara valued at £750.
TICKETS: ONE SHILLING.
Six Tickets, 5/; Twelve Tickets, 10/: Twenty-five Tickets, £l.
A Ticket a Day Keeps Misfortune Away!
Send at once. State whether Mr., Mrs., or Miss. Enclose stamped envelope
for result slip. Art Union Drawn on June 1, 1929.
Address: J. J. NEVILLE, Hon. Secretary.
Fire Brigades Headquarters, 213 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
TAKE THE ADVICE OF A WISE OLD TOMCAT AND 808 IN.
I’LL BE HAPPY WHEN THE BOBS COME BOBBING ALONG!
"sloryWrUincj
Send this S.B. Advt. for this Book:
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.” It is Free!
STOTT’S, 100 Russell St., Melbourne.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT! LUNGS!
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujube
AN IDEAL REMEDY
o
m
kj
SISS
rnr
ML
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza.
Containing no Cocaine or Other
Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says:—“Proved to be effective bat-
tericidally as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines, EUMENTHOL JUJUBE’
do not interfere with the Digestion; on the contrary
they have a beneficial effect, as their antisept*-
properties prevent abnormal fermentation of the h#*'
when taken after meals.
The Red Page
Rocks and Mud and Novels
[This engaging article by Norman Lindsay, greatest
of living . illustrators and one of the greatest of all
time, should be of interest to Australians concerned
in the artistic development of this country, and
especially to these who are now working on their
manuscripts for The Bulletin's Second Novel Com-
petition, which closes at the end of this year. It
was inspired by the artist’s association with the
first of The Bulletins competitions as illustrator
of tho prize-winning serial, the publication of which
Will begin this month under the title of “The
Quartermaster.” The story, with its original
title, is shortly to be published by Harrap;
“Coonardoo” lias already been issued by Cape, and
tint other prize-winner, Vance Palmer's “Men Are
Human,” will appear in book form immediately after
publication in The Bulletin. Norman Lindsay
asserts that The Bulletin is doing an admirable
thing in pressing the significance of the novel. The
proved enthusiasm of Harrap, Cape and Vance
Palmer’s publisher seems pretty fair evidence that
that admirable thing is being done successfully.
This publication by leading world publishers of its
first three prize-winners makes this paper look
forward to the results of the second competition
more hopefully than ever.]
It is not enough to say that a people
cannot have a national consciousness with-
out an art; without an art it cannot have
a consciousness at all.
A human being must recognise itself as a
creature of fiction before if. can be a recog-
nisable content of life. It may generate
within itself a certain dynamic of self, but
that does not become a really sentient
process till it has been made concrete in
words or sounds or forms. That is only
to say that some mental and emotional
standard must be defined for the individual
unit to make self-comparison with.
The mentality of the average bush type
to-day is covered by the mentality of Henry
Lawson. By jotting down notes of what
he observed of their idosyncratic variations
as a species, they become those idiosyncratic
variations, plus a sentient awareness of
themselves as such. Before, they had been
mere automatic reactions to the struggle
for existence.
On those terms the mass of any people’s
consciousness must become an active pro-
cess within itself, and a recognisable content
from without itself. It is not distinguished
from other peoples by isolations of rock
and mud, but by its peculiar outlook on
life. And that, of course, can only be de-
fined by art.
A people may gain a certain assthetic
value from the art of other nationalities,
but their individual consciousness will not
be deeply stirred by it. A Sydney girl
may read of the emotional disturbances of
a London girl in a novel about London and
be entertained, but there the process ends.
She must meet herself in type matter hurry-
ing down George-street to bump into the
boy at the post-office corner who takes her
to Manly on Sunday before her own per-
formance of that simple itinerary in the
emotions becomes an amazing reality to
her. The personality of a city, which be-
comes so mysteriously an identification of
the people who live in it, has nothing to
do with architects and aldermen and kings
and legisiators, but with novels.
Who cares to know if Henry the Eighth
built Lincoln’s Inn? I don’t know if he
did, and I don’t care, either; but I do
know I registered a thrill before it to recall
that Mr. Tulkinghorn dwelt there, and the
immortal Snagsby across the way in Cook’s
(they call it, Took’s) Court, Curseter-street.
Types of' human beings are created or
wiped out under the terms by which they
are defined in type matter. Dickens made
the English people alter not only their
ipstitutions but their faces and manners,
too. He was so violently annoyed with
the idle, bored man about town of his era,
and castigated him so with ridicule, that
the next generation of Englishmen were
brisk, alert fellows, with a crisp, neat articu-
lation, and never dreamed of throwing
cushions on their heads, like the debilitated
cousin in “Bleak House,” who said “
Zample; better hang wrong f’l’a than no
f’l’a.”
In Australia we have arrived at that
point in automatic national growth where
its mechanism must be consciously defined,
or there will be no further growth worth
defining.
The novel must come, or we will remain
unknown to ourselves and non-existent to
other peoples, save as dumping-ground for
their commodities, mental or otherwise.
It is very hard for an Australian in Aus-
tralia to realise how vacuous is the glance
cast at this country by other peoples. I
found it quite impossible to give an intelli-
gent Englishman or Frenchman who had
not been here any conception in words of
what sort of place it was. One might labor
in vain to convince an Englishman just
then that a Labor member did not wear
bowyangs and smoke a short clay pipe. In
the Mercury office in Paris a group of
French journalists were looking over some
illustrations I had done for Casanova’s
memoirs when one of them said, “Of course
vou came to Europe for your eighteenth-
century material?” When it was explained
that the drawings had been done in Aus-
tralia that outraged Frenchman exclaimed.
“Impossible... .in that wild place!” Bill
Dailey will recall that absurd incident, as
he was my interpreter in a language that I
speak, in its own idiom, “like a Spanish
cow.’ 1
One can trace that inferiority complex
of the Australian abroad, which he also de-
fines by his boasting at, home, to the depress-
ing consciousness of his non-existence in
type matter. Of all the novelists of the
last generation who had its ear, only two,
I think, mention Australia in their works:
Conrad, for stray references to ports of
call and one or two brief glimpses of Syd-
ney ; and Stevenson in “The Wrecker,
where the Domain, the Currency Lass (now
vanished) and Paris House get a mention.
I never cease to regret, that Louis Stone
did not cany on the work he began so
admirably with “Jonah” and “Betty Way-
side.” There, for the first time, types
idiosyncraticallv Australian moved through
Sydney streets, and those streets were bril-
liantly alive with crowds ot people. If a
dozen novels of their quality hail been
circulating in England since Jonah was
begot, the coming Australian novelist would
not have quite such a nuisance of a job
before him. Some few hundred-thousand
readers would have already travelled
through the cities of his creations, and be
aware of what skies and aspirations they
lived under. Stone has the “locality”
faculty highly developed; his streets and
peoples are instantly vitalised and known
at a glance. If he had only covered the
social stratas as he began, with Jonah in the
slums, and Betty in the suburbs *
Well, we have to admit that his reception
as a novelist was not gracious. The inner
history of his struggle to get a hearing for
the novel here does not make pleasing
matter for contemplation. But what genu-
ine expression in the arts ever did? No
matter, the novel must come, in spite of
Australia’s apathy or opposition to it. If
it does not, so much the worse for Aus-
tralia.
For myself, I am strongly optimistic over
the possibilities of the Australian novel
producing a distinct sesthetie of its own;
.an obviously fatuous state of mind on my
part, since the gods only exist to frustrate
expectations of that sort. Still, I have
read certain works in MSS. that impress me
strongly with their vitality, frankness and
courage; qualities, one has to admit, that
may not endear them to the public. But
that is a trifle; friction is the essential
process that begets good fiction.
This much, at least, is obvious: Australia
is manufacturing a background for the
novel. I doubt if any city in the world
could produce better human material, and
a better setting, than Sydney. A great
pity, of course, that its night life is stifled
by that imbecile early-closing law which
forces more hard drinking into being than
freedom to drink all night could do. In
fact, we will never get rid of hard drinking
till man is allowed to have his liquor when
he will and how he should, which is in
public and in a comfortable chair. One
never sees a drunk in Paris because there is
no pressure put on people there not to get
drunk. This is not a subject extraneous to
the novel. The mechanism of entertain-
ment and release from nerve stress is as
essential to the full experience of life as the
emotional conflict of sex that begets it.
True morality begins with that Roman prim
ciple which gives the largest area in the
action of life for the release of the ego;
which opposes the vulgar principle of bad
and repressed peoples that life should be
strangulated by by-laws and stultified by
dulness.
Well, all that is in the hands of the
novelist. He can make Australia not only
a’place worth living in, but a place where
life exists. Life ik the burgeoning of
the human ego by a release of its emotional
mechanism as a conscious impact, and not a
blind automatonism that grubs for food and
clothes. Pictures, poetry and music reach
only the minority, and at that only of those
already developed to react to an imagery of
life, but prose goes everywhere. It is a
rapier and a bludgeon, a brickbat and a
hypodermic syringe; and, squirm, kick and
struggle as it will, the human ego must come
into its operating theatre for a clinical
analysis.
All that is apart from the thousand bad
novels that will be published for the one
good one when novels are published in
Australia. I hold no brief for aesthetic
squeamishness on that score. Why shouldn’t
the people read rot? After all, even writing
rot is better than sitting in a stockbroker’s
office or selling socks. Any sort of mechan-
ism for the novel is better than none, and
even in crude trade terms, it is a mystery
to me why some reasonably intelligent busi-
ness man here does not buy one .of those
printing machines which take in a roll of
paper at one end and eject thousands of
bound volumes at the other. On that sys-
tem Australia is now only a literary tip for
English and American cheap novels, which
could be equally well written and published
The Bulletin is doing an admirable
thing (I suppose I can say this privately in
its columns) in pressing the importance of
the novel. Australia will never bulk with
any significance in the world’s culture with-
out it.
NORMAN LINDSAY.
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


Shop where “Truth in Advertising” always protects you.
Anthony Horderns'
for finest value in
WEED NON-SKID CHAINS
A Necessity for the Motorist
during the
Wet Winter Months .
Be protected against the risk of accidents by using Weed Non-
skid Chains. These are made with the greatest care and
attention to important details. Side Chain is of heavy wire
of high tensile strength, and is heavily galvanised to prevent
rusting. Cross Chains made of special stock, the links smoothly
welded. Each link is proof-tested, and being cold twisted in
automatic machines produces a chain of uniform twist,
presenting a smooth surface to the tyre and a broad wearing
surface to the road. Weed Chains are diamond-hard, yet not
brittle, combining strength and durability.
w
Weed De Luxe Chains
Balloon Chains,
New Rim Diameters
The provision of these new sizes is an indi-
cation that Anthony Horderns’ service is as
complete as it is reliable.
PRICES OF OTHER SIZES SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
ŵ
Use Our
“D.P.S.”
If you wish to purchase any of
these goods, it is not essential
to pay the full amount at once.
Make use of our Deposit-
Purchase System. All that is
required is to leave a small
deposit, pay the remainder
when convenient, and on com-
pletion of payments the goods
will be delivered in the usual
Way. No extra charge incurred,
and no interest.
ẁ
Free Delivery of these goods, City and Suburbs only.
Anthony Horderns'
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED,
SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O


tbe world has a new and finer rotor car
I
w
H5bN
m
4
>
v
\L
The Smart World
Chooses the NEW NASH "400”
THE NEW
UERY noticeable, is the enthusiasm for the new Nash
"400” exhibited by people who drive solely for
pleasure and sport—those to whom smartness, style and
faultless performance are as necessary as the air they
breathe.
Its low-swung, racing balance, its marvelous driving touch,
the smooth rhythm of its dynamic new Twin Ignition
motor, all combine to give the "400” owner a type of
motoring far more satisfying than any he has known.
Its many costly-car features and luxuries—centralized
chassis lubrication, hydraulic shock absorbers, specially
designed bumpers, and the like, all serve to install the
“400” as a ruling favorite of those who live luxuriously.
Built as it is, appointed as it is, performing as it does,
the "400” would undoubtedly be more expensive in price
were it not for the enormous volume of Nash production.
Tourers. Sedsins.
Standard Six from £375 £4so* (2-door) £470 (4-door)
Special Six £4BO £565* (2-door) £5BO (4-door)
Advanced Six £63o* £62o* (2-door) £635 (4-door)
*lmported body.
Distributors for New South Wales:
WILLSFORD, LTD.,
132-134 Phillip Street,
SYDNEY.
’Phones: 8W2291 (5 lines).
Distributors for Victoria and Tasmania:
RICKARDS BROS. PTY., LTD.,
567-573 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
’Phone: F 3114.
Distributors for Queensland and Northern Rivers:
PEELS, LTD.,
407-431 Stanley Street,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
’Phone: J 1561.
Distributors for South Australia and Broken Hill:
AUTOCARS, LTD.,
58-72 Flinders Street,
ADELAIDE.
'Phone: Central 5500.
ẃ
TASMANIAN DEALERSi
THE SERVICE CO. OF TASMANIA, 166 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
E. MEERMANN, 135 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
BENNETT & GILBERT, Best Street, Devonport.


6» ' ! ; “ : i 'Jfp^TTf:
W nl iirnTri ”m iliMMHiHirnTmrrii ” nil hi n i r
:
SraMHtt
mm
1111 l
i
M
m
' ""->V..~
Visitors
toLondon
Polish Oak Canteens,
completely fitted with
Prince's Plate Spoons
and Fori.s, and “Trust-
worthy” Cutlery are
available from, £7/10/-
to £lOO. A Catalogue
will be sent upon
request.
ẅ
New Zealand Writers
In the latest number of Art in New
Zealand, Jessie Mackay marshals for
review an imposing array of her fellow-
writers, giving a friendly pat to each; but,
perhaps, because of the occasion, she holds
her critical faculty in check and contents
herself with arranging a spectacle. There
is a confusion about such spectacles, though.
They blot out the individual features and
bring down everyone to the one level.
It is disconcerting, for instance, to find
mere writers of children’s books, like Isabel
Maud Peacocke, rubbing shoulders with
Eileen Duggan and Katherine Mansfield.
No, Katherine Mansfield has been left out,
though it is hard to guess why. It could
Uot be due to any question of her import-
ance; that was settled long ago. There must
have been some doubt in Jessie Mackay’s
mind whether Katherine Mansfield cart
fairly be claimed as a Maorilander,
though the latter’s “Journal” should have
satisfied that. In it Katherine Mansfield
Confesses that her* main ambition was to
re-create the life she knew in her own
Country as a child, and she steadily devoted
her last few years to that end.
To an outsider, the most remarkable
thing about Maoriland writing is the
Originality and strength of the women and
the relative feebleness of the men, What is
the reason for it*/ Surely there are no
women writing more authentic poetry in
English to-day than Jessie Mackay and
Eileen Duggan, Jessie Mackay belongs to
a previous generation, perhaps, but Eileen
Duggan is still young, and the distinction
she shows in every line she writes places
her high above the mere makers of verse.
It seems as if poetry was her natural tongue;
shO has only to raise her voice and we are
aware of a strange spell being cast over
us. Then there is Blanche Baughan, with
her “Shingle Short,” a dramatic poem of
great force and beauty; the sharpness and
sting of life is in that vision Of the world
through the eyes of an old, half-witted
hatter. Dora Wilcox, too, has written a
lew lyrics that are quite memorable.
And for prose there are Katherine Mans-
field and Jane Mander. What a fresh, vital
Maoriland Katherine Mansfield pictures in
such sketches as “At the Bay”! It is
the Creation of a new landscape, a new
world; for a country hardly exists till the
artist has gathered it together out of chaos
and given it perceptible form; even to the
peojffe within its borders it is vague and
shadowy, hardly real. Jane Mander is not
such an important writer as Katherine
Mansfield, but her first book, “The Story
bf a New Zealand River,” showed that she
fvas a woman with something to say, and
her later “Alle'n Adair” was a considerable
achievement. On the Whole it is the best
novel of Maoriland life yet written, with
clear, unforgettable pictures of small towns
in the North Island, and people coming and
going about their daily work. There is an
honesty and integrity about Jane Mander,
a real interest in her sub,j ect-matter rather
than in the sort of figure she is cutting
before her audience. It is a pity she had
to go to New York and write about a life
she could only know superficially.
Such are the women, not forgetting G.
B. Lancaster, who told some vivid stories,
marred only by the falsetto note that creeps
into women’s voices when they strain to be
masculine. G. B. Lancaster was not at all
masculine, really. She would have been
much more at home writing quiet, complex
stories around the lives of women.
But when we come to the men, what a
falling-off there is! The women seem
mature, individual, secure in their own
World, writing without self-consciousness;
the men, almost without exception, lack
these qualities. They come on the field
timidly, or with a cubbish aggressiveness,
feeling the eyes of their English audience
upon them, awkwardly aware of being
colonial-provincials and becoming so, in
reality, by this veiy awareness. I am not
thinking of the early Domett, who has an
epic reputation no one can shake, because
no one can read his dull masterpiece through
to the bitter end. It can safely be said,
though, that there is more poetry in one
lyric of Jessie Mackay’s than in all the
huge bulk of Domett. Bracken has a repu-
tation, too, because of “Not Understood”
—it ought to be an evil reputation.
What of the younger men? Leave out
the competent and mediocre writers of verse
and stories—look at the men who are try-
ing to express something. It would be fair
to take Hector Bolitho and Alan Mulgan
as two different but representative types.
Bolitho is the swaggering provincial, parad-
ing his jejune pride in his country at one
time, and giving it away with both hands
at another. “Solemn Boy” was the work of
a very young and raw man who gave no
particular promise of ever maturing. Raw-
ness is one thing, but rawness covered with
sophistication leaves as little chance for
growth as a path spread with asphalt. Alan
Mulgan, on the other hand, is the cultured
quietist. He would never make a faux pas
in the English drawing-room; but then
would he ever make anything but a mild
comment on the beauty of the view through
the window and the way it filled a Maori-
lander with dim yearnings? Unfortunately
nothing vital in literature is going
to come out of dim yearnings. Literature
is a passionate love-child.
I think it is clear that men writing in
Maoriland suffer from an inferiority complex,
personal and national, from which women
are free. Perhaps this is due to the social
environment in a new, crude country. The
men are conscious of being asked why they
are stewing over a feminine business like
writing when they ought to be pioneering
—selling bacon or grubbing fern-shoots.
It is not that such questions are formulated,
but they are in the air. And so the men
have inhibitions; they withhold themselves;
they try to show in their writings that they
are sane “colonial-provincials,” after all,
primarily interested in—well, not interested
in anything very much except the vague
business of putting Maoriland on the map.
And the women, who are not asked these
intimidating questions, come to their full
development and produce the literature.
VANCE PALMER.
A Year of Horror
Volume 111 of the Official History of
Australia in the War” (Angus and Robert-
son) takes the reader from Egypt after the
evacuation to the end of 1916 on the Somme.
Events of tremendous importance, not only
to the A.1.F., but to Australia, happened
in those 12 months; we are feeling some
of their repercussions still.
The Second Division (A.1.F.) began tak-
ing over the line south-east of Armentieres
ih. April, and by the middle of May the
Ist Anfcac Corps had three divisions there,
holding nine miles of front. This was the
quietest British sector at the time—a para-
dise of rest after Gallipoli—‘and the light-
ness of the casualties as the summer wore
on raised false hopes in many a fond heart
in Australia. By the end of May the Corps
had not attacked and had only experienced
two German raids conducted for the pur-
pose of verifying rumors about the presence
in France of large numbers of Common-
wealth troops.
Then came Fromelles. The untried sth
Division was informed that it would be
handed over to the tactical control of the
11th Corps and First Army for an attack on
the German line. “The fact,” we are told,
“that, his division, though the last of the
A.I.F. to arrive in France, would be the
first in serious action gave General McCay
much gratification.” Half the sth Division
had never seen a front-line trench, and the
other six battalions had only been in the
line for 48 hours, when McCay’s first opera-
tion order was issued. The A.I.F. gunners
were, if anything, more inexperienced than
the infantry, with the result that certain
units, and notably the Bth Brigade, “suffered
severely through the falling among them of
an increasing number of their own shells.”
In this feint—for Fromelles was no more
—the division lost 5300 officers and men.
Mr, Bean claims that, though General McCay
has been “loaded with blame for this costly
Undertaking,” he “was not, in fact, any more
responsible for it than the humblest private
in his force.” The reason given will strike
many as inadequate:—
It is probably true that in the ease of the
Fromelles offensive McCay welcomed the early chance
of commanding- his division in action; hut even
had he been as thoroughly opposed to it as were
White and Birdwood, *he general appeal made by
his superiors might well have prevented opposition
on his part.
Fromelles, which was followed by the
holocausts of Pozieres and Mouquet Farm,
brought the total A.I.F. casualties up to
28,000 —an average in seven weeks of 7000
per division—and carried a wave of horror
throughout Australia which exceeded in
intensity any emotion inspired by the Galli-
poli campaign. Conscription had been
adopted in Britain eight months before,
and it now became a live issue in Australia.
The A.I.F. voted in favor of it by 72,399
to 58,894, and the historian believes that
most of the “no” voters were men who pre-
ferred to see others saved from the horrors
they had gone through than to be relieved
of the frightful strain they were experienc-
ing themselves. It may have been so. Such
sentiments were commonly expressed when
the vote was taken in 1917. But the vote
against conscription was, by general consent,
both in France and in England, not so
much one of no confidence in modern war-
fare as of no confidence of the staff.
An inevitable effect of a tactical scheme
involving stresses which reached their climax
at Flers towards the end of the year was
a renewal of the War Office demand for the
death penalty in A.I.F. desertion cases. The
nerves of many of the men—perhaps the
finest storm troops that Flanders has seen—
were literally shot to pieces:—
A captured German officer told of a youngster of
the 4th Australian Pivision who had come across,
saying that he could no longer bear the cold and
mud and want of sunlight. Most battalions had
their unwilling squads who tried to avoid trench-
service by malingering.
It is to the credit of W. M. Hughes that
he resisted the pressure put on him by
highly-placed British advocates of the death
penalty with unflinching firmness. He had
splendid professional support from Dr.
J. W. Springfhorpe, of Melbourne.
Finally, the Australian soldiers in
that disastrous year lost something of their
respect for the fighting qualities of the
British “Tommy”—a matter of being “let
down” by weak supporting units—and this
unfortunate misconception threatens to be-
come a tradition of our national life.
The appalling story is told in the admir-
ably clear and simple style that we have
come to look for in Mr. Bean; but his
natural amiability is the measure of his
weakness as a historian. He appears to be
completely lacking in the capacity for
indignation.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Allan B.: Fine material handled clumsily.
E.F.M.: You haven't made it seem worth writing,
though the setting is so unusual that it wouldn’t
take much better telling to carry it. . ..W.D.F.: The
ending is too cloudy. Clarify it. .. .G.A.8.: Not
quite, but nearly T. J.L.: Worth re-writing. You’ll
know better next time what you can leave 0ut....
Me: No, not yon this time... .R.W.S.: No billet
for your bullet.... Enzed: Gastronomic trifle fired.
K.R.: Hero whose “mind matched his magnificent
torso” restored with care. ... D.C.: Don’t know of
any paper likely to accept them. .. .Trevdee: No
substance in the vision.... W.C.G.: You say it is
“one of these little stories that cannot be im-
proved.” It could be improved out of sight....
O. : Quite without merit.... L.G.R.: Not for us.
But a whisper in your private ear —until you open
out your lines more, every sub-editor will hate
y0u.... Retto: You’re too hard to disentangle. Plot
out your route before you start, and stick to it....
Bushcat: You didn’t know the facts.... Marshall:
Too late V.A.T. : Very hard to disentangle you.
J.H.L.: You don’t make the best of your good
material W.H.8.: That back yard has been too
often dug over. .. .J. J.A.: Sorry to send it back;
we’ve printed scores worse. But you are difficult
to read... .H.C.: Rather woolly verse... .W.A.H.:
A jester at the Court of King Arthur was smothered
for repeating that gag.... J.O’C.: Deeply regret you
have to state in your verse “I’m in gaol,” but
understand the added “No wonder!”... .Pax: “The
Split Infinitive” is now in the past tense. .. .L.J.0.:
There is a proverb which says “The father shall
name his own son.” So you’re privileged in calling
that a sonnet. .. .H.G.McG.: Sorry; no room for
another Southern Cross verse in this column....
C.U.: A delicately written variant of the old
story; regret can’t use. ... D.8.G.: Twins restored
with promptitude. .. .J.L.: Quite creditable for a
young 0ne....F. Pen: Under the Copyright Act, the
publisher of any book or pamphlet printed in the
Commonwealth is obliged to supply- a free copy
to the National Library at Canberra... .Anti-Hog:
Number of accidental deaths in Australia, 1927 (no
later figures have been published), was 3555. The
automobile headed the list with a butcher’s bill of
748; then followed drowning (590), falls (506),
burns (285), railway accidents (187), “other vehicles”
(186), excessive heat (169) and “other crushings”
(155). Electric shocks killed 46 persons, “poisoning
by venomous animals” 12, and aeroplanes 11....
Telor: Yes, but there is more than one religion.
Trench defines it as “the outer form or embodiment
which the inward spirit of a true or a false" devotion
assumes”... .P.M.H.: Well shot, sir! But a miss
all the same.... Soames: So many are troubled with
those dreams... .F.K.: You don’t make the best of
your neighbor... .J.G.J.: No use for prose subject
wrapped up in blank verse... .H.J.H.: Honestly, it’s
no good H.A.G.: Pretty, that’s a 11.... Fighting
Mac: Covering letter and verse both read. Covering
letter preferred..J.N.: Passed out... .C.C.McN.:
Weeks too late.... Emel: Nothing for us there....
P. : “A hide as thick as antiquated male” is the
only note of interest. .. .Tokainabul: Order your muse
a diet of brandy and soda. She’s a bit faint... .T.E. :
Select committee appointed by this column to read
all Southern Cross verse has reached your effort,
and struck for higher wages... .A.C.S.: Only
middling... .Piscis: “A Vision of Legs” leaves us
more blase than ever. ...Kit: Your muse keeps that
schoolgirl complex. .. .R.M.J.: Lots of “Dreams” this
morning. Must be the pastry season. .. .W.F.S.:
Statement that “Just as night follows day, so the
sun follows rain” is so comparatively original that
the rest of the verse seems almost p00r.... R.K.:
“Impostor” very dull. “Gaze Not” a good idea
mishandled... .Go On: Please do. . . .0.J.: Cannot be
compared with the quality of mercy... .J.W.8.:
Attempt to rhyme Utopia with Australia at least
plucky.... E.A.W.: “Coo-ee” too Longfellowish. .. .
M.L.: “Trilogy” fell at the second hurdle. .. .H.L.C.
Once upon a time a near one
Left me stranded on the rocks;
Left no water in my billy,
Left me nothing but my socks.
And gum-leaves are such a poor substitute, aren’t
they?.. . .A.K.: As you so aptly describe it —“Hell!”
. ...1.H.: Might place ’em elsewhere. .. .A. 8.: Not
a glitter in “The Light of Stars”....Dar-Ken: Not
our door with any more “Black Injustice”. .. .T.1.M.:
Enjoyed attached biography, anyway... .H.H.: Can’t
place it... .1.W.M.: Doesn’t rise above description.
.. . .R.W.K.: Not our kind. . . . Mentorosa :As requested,
verse returned so that you can “put it out of its
misery personally”. .. .R.1.F.: W.p.b C.A.V.:
Neatest writing we’ve seen for years.... T.J.C.:
Rather singsong verse about nothing.... S.G.: Parody
needs to be brilliant... .N.H.: Reiterated opening
line appallingly monotonous. .. .W.S.: Turner’s “Nine-
teen Years in Polynesia” is worth 15s. ; Greenwood’s
“Curiosities of Savage Life,” £1 Is.; Bomvic-k’s
“The Last of the Tasmanians,” £1 155.; Cayley-
Webster’s “Through New' Guinea and the Cannibal
Countries,” 15s W. 8.: Can’t give it a f1y....
G.K.S.: “Waggles” just waggles; the other, as you
say, is a bagatelle... .W.E.F.: Has an ancient and
a shark-like smell... .E.G.M.: Very nearly... .0.P.:
Pretty good descriptive stuff, but not quite suitable.
... .H.C.: Too fragmentary. .. . W.C.C.: A poor thing.
... .T.L.A.: Not rushing it. .. .Peter Sav.: Try some-
thing less fantastic... .F.D.: Interested in neither
Willie nor Elsie.... E^J.: Very juvenile, but not
without promise... .N.D.: Unfortunately, you do not
translate your knowledge into interesting reading.
. ...R.W.S.: Not in our line... .E.A.P.: Why saddle
us with the signed opinions of a contributor to a
controversial page?... .C.W.P.: Closure has been
moved on it... .N.S.P.: Sorry, it’s crowded 0ut....
De G.: Sombre and gruesome... .R.M.H.: You excite
interest and leave it unsatisfied.... J.8.T.8.: “Rough
Diamond” would need too much cutting; the others
are stilted... .L.N.: Only lack of space shuts it out.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.F.: You shan’t park your petrol w'aggon here.
... .A.8.G.: Not interested in your crumpled park-
benchers... .M. 0.: That toothbrush gag is worn to
the bone... .E.W.: The ladies are decorative but
humorless... .L.R.T.: Scrappy as yet... .E.M.: Your
philosophic youngsters don’t impress.... H.W.H.:
You just crawl away from the barrier... .E.G.W.:
Counted ten over the ex-bruiser. .. .D.D.T.: Very
lymphatic lovers.


w


The Bulletin
Vol. 50.—N0. 2569.
May 8, 1929.
SOLVING THE PROBLEM.
“It quite obvious that the public would rather ride in any sort of motor-car than in the best train or tram."- Daily paper, alter going to the Melbourne Motor Show.
That Ought to Giya the Railways and Tramways an Idea.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE;
2ti George Street, Sydney.
Victoria: IH-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 2J/9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London: 36 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any addrf.ss in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £ 1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, Is.
To ANY ADDRESS OVERSEAS! 12 months, All lOt. 1
6 months, 16s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: lfoz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional ioz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: ioz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED 'PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
The Novel in Australia.
—by Norman Lindsay . . . . 2
NEW ZEALAND WRITERS —by Vance Palmer 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . . . 5
A REASON FRONT PAGE 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
Red Ghosts—How McCormack
May Win 8
THE TALKIES v. THE THEATRE ... ..8
Was General McCay to Blame? 9
THE MORAL OF THE KOOKABURRA .. 9
THE BURDEN OF ARBITRATION .. ..9
THE QUEENSLAND ELECTIONS
—A cartoon by Scorfield .. .. .. .. 9
POLITICS (with caricatures) .. .. .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. .. 11, 12
PERSONAL (WITH DRAWING BY NORMAN
LINDSAY) ..14
POVERTY POINT 15
“WAR’S SUCCESSOR,” by Percival .. ..15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..17
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA 18
FINNEY ISLES 18
SYDNEY TELEGRAPH 18
HOTEL SYDNEY . . 20
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 23, 25
Free Service Department . . 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 31
SMOKE-OH . . .. . . 32
"A Rogue in Amber” .. ..34, 55, 58
PEN AND PICTURE 37
VIC. ARTISTS’ SOC. SHOW 37
SPORTING (Illustrated) 39, 41, 42
N.S.W. RUGBY UNION OPENS . . . . 39
BUSINESS, ROBBERY’, ETC 42
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 44
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER .. . . . . 46
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 49
Y’ERSE 53, 55, 58
“SEA THOUGHT,” by E. J. Brady .. ..53
“AT DEAD OF NIGHT,” by Roderic Quinn.. 55
“SQUALL,” by Frederick T. Macartney .. 58
Two Complete Stories—
“lN TIME,” by C. R. E. Childers .. 51, 53
“No. 5,” by J. H. M. Abbott .. .. 57, 58
"THE QUARTERMASTER”
BEGINS MAY 22.
Tfce'&uZleZz/yi
WEDNESDAY, MAY 8, 1929
RED GHOSTS!
Polling-day has arrived in Queensland, and
Premier McCormack announces himself
assured of victory. He shares this confi-
dence with certain strike-makers, who count
some of the ballot-papers and burn the rest,
along with the effigy of the Arbitration
Judge. Northern State politics took on
a new aspect immediately after the Rydor-
gilmack dynasty attained office in 1915, and
proceeded to make its job and re-election
sure. It put 89,221 new alleged electors on
the roll between 1915 and 1918, while the
increase of total population in the same
time (Federal figures) was only 19,673.
It is remarkable that the new electors,
supposed to be of exactly the same quality
as the old ones, should be so different that
they made the Labor bosses safe in their
billets for 14 years. In the absence of any
other satisfactory theory it can only be
assumed that the people who run the show
know best where these electors are buried.
It is no inferior State which Ryan and
Theodore and Gillies and McCormack
have found a political goldmine for all these
years. Queensland has more land with
an average annual rainfall of 15in. and over
than any of its neighbors. These are the
official figures :—■
, Fifteen Inches of Rain and Ovef.
Sq. Miles. Sq. Miles.
Queensland . . 508,445 Victoria .. 68,614
N. Territory.. 250,246 S. Australia .. 32,950
Westralia .. 233,876 Tasmania .. 26,216
N. S. Wales.. 182,869
If the possession of territory inside the
Temperate Zone is an advantage in the
promotion of white settlement, as is fre-
quently argued, Queensland has more square
miles of such property than N. S. Wales,
Victoria, Tasmania or the Northern Terri-
toiy. It is well supplied with streams; when
the Federal Statistician published a list
of Australian rivers those of Queensland
occupied 10£ columns, while all the other
waterways of the Commonwealth were com-
pressed into six columns. The climate is
healthy, the death-rate over a long series
of years being under the low Australian
average, and the birth-rate above it. And
Queensland has a practical monopoly of the
profitable cane-sugar industry, which is pro-
tected to the extent of blank prohibition
of imports. Sugar constitutes half of the
State’s agriculture, measured by value. On
top of all Queensland has enjoyed the
alleged blessing of Labor or Red-flag con-
trol longer than any of its neighbors and
in a more virulent form.
With all these showers of blessings some-
thing seems to be amiss. If it were not
for the sugar monopoly the value of Queens-
land’s agricultural output would be far less
than that of N. S. Wales, Victoria, South
Australia or Westralia. Even including
sugar the value is much below that of
N. S. Wales or Victoria, and distinctly below
that of S. Australia—the place with 32,950
square miles of decent rainfall. By some
muddle or misfortune McCormack’s place
is absolutely at the bottom of the list of six
States as regards volume of factory wages,
the acreage under crop in proportion to
population and the acreage in proportion to
the area of the country. In proportion to
population it has just about a wretched one-
third of what it should have to keep up
with the pi'ocession; and in proportion to
area it has less than a miserable one-fourth.
In both respects South Australia beats it
by over six to one, which is a very decisive
margin. As regards livestock (cattle, sheep,
horses and pigs), Queensland ranks fourth,
which is better than being sixth. It has
34 beasts where Tasmania has 80, N. S.
Wales 190, and Victoria 194.
In a land not so badly hag-ridden by
freaks and cranks and experimentalists, the
progress of factory industries might com-
pensate for the comparative failure of
“primary production,” but Queensland pro-
gresses slowly in that respect. As evil con-
sequences accumulate with the increase of
the years and the sins of the Continuous
Government, it sometimes forgets to pro-
gress at all. Comparing 1925-26 with
1926-27, the last year for which manufactur-
ing statistics are available, this was the
12 months’ record:—
Queensland Factories.
Number of factories.. .. Decrease 20
Number of employees .. Decrease 2,363
Wages paid .. .. .. Decrease £245,745
Value of work done . . .. Decrease 1,611,117
Value of total output .. Decrease 4,572,901
Westralia showed a decrease in the number
of hands employed, but N. S. Wales, Vic-
toria, South Australia and Tasmania exhi-
bited an improvement under every one of
the headings where the Red Flag State
slumped so dismally. Queensland has been
lagging behind the procession with more
or less regularity for 14 years. It is the
only State which has a less proportion of
its people employed in manufacturing than
it had 14 years ago, or seven years ago, or
two years ago. In the matter of factory
wages (average of men, women, boys and
girls) it ranks after N. S. Wales, South
Australia, and Westralia, and is £3 per annum
behind the Australian average. For value
of work turned out per factory employee
it ranks third and below the Australian
average, and it has lately been on the down
grade. Finally, the value of factory output
was at latest returns £46 17s. per head of
population annually, against an all-State
average of £66 17s. 7d., and in this respect,
as in so many others, Queensland is alone
on the downward track.
When to all other evils are added the
wrecky condition of the finances in general,
and the fact that the railways are just
completing their 14th huge consecutive
annual shortage, it is little marvel that the
Premier is shy on details in his electoral
orations. He confines himself mostly to
prophecies of victory. The ghosts are to
pull the party through. Whether they
will do it or not depends upon the vigor
with which that part of Queensland which
is not ghost goes to the poll on Saturday.
DRUG FIENDS AT THE TREASURY.
In old days Solomon, then rather senile,
held it a duty to marry a few more wives
each year, even if they were as ugly as sin
and though he hated the sight of them,
and though his people were taxed to the
point of insurrection to pay for the harem
without any further additions. The king-
dom lasted his time, but no longer. In
the same spirit the N.S.W. Government
has produced a programme s of railway-*
building. It feels that it would have no
hope of Heaven if it didn’t.
The State has just added £4,341,180 of
railway deficit to its public debt. This
habit of selling the children into bondage
to money-lenders differs from any other
form of white-slave traffic inasmuch' as it
is a matter of selling the child not of one
generation only, but all the children of in-
definite generations. The unpayable char-
acter of the system being regarded as per-
manent, it was lately decided to grant
£BOO,OOO a year out of the empty Treasury
to assist the Railway Commissioners. This
sum being absurdly inadequate, it was re-
solved later to introduce a completely new
system of account-keeping, which should
make the situation look better. It was
also decided to push on with the construc-
tion of lines, mostly great and assured
losers, so that the situation would be
worse even if it looked the other thing.
The new scheme, which is being referred
to the Public Works Committee, consists
of six loan railways and a loan bridge. The
lines represent 450 miles, and are set down
at about £BOOO per mile, which looks an
inferior joke with moss on it. Perhaps
£15,000 per mile may suffice. The most
interesting item is the proposal to connect
the North Coast line with the deep-water
harbor of Port Stephens. Good Austra-
lians have urged the making of Poi*t
Stephens accessible since Premier Bavin's
infancy, and it is rather a pity that the
work should have been left till wages and
the cost of materials and the rate of in-
terest have almost doubled, and the habit
of constructing works out of revenue (which
habit the State once really possessed in
a modified form) has died out, and the
money to equip the port, if it is made
accessible, may not be available, for the
availability of loan money is growing ex-
tremely precarious. Still, any proposal to
make a supreme effort in a good cause and
do the job out of revenue, thus inaugurating
a definite reform, would perhaps have
caused too many dead citizens to turn in
their graves and have ruined the appear-
ance of too many picturesque cemeteries.
Remarkable things are done in the way of
finding tax funds with which to pay heavy
interest on loan undertakings, but no lead-
ing politician will try to find a trifle with
which to do something without loans, and
thus save the interest and the dead horse.
He fears that if he did the Heavens might
fall on him, and squash him past any
chance of identification for the purpose of
Christian burial.
The other features of the latest public
works programme ai’e of the customary
sort, being scrappy and scattered and dis-
jointed and of no special significance.
The State which is steered with so many
good intentions by Bavin, Btjttenshaw
and Stevens added 824 miles to its rail-
way mileage between 1921 (which was
about the time when Federal Arbitration
Judges took control and began, out of the
depths of their innocence, to give lavish
“concessions”) and 1928. It likewise added
£35,465,180 to the total loan cost of the
system. That might be roughly defined as
buying line at £43,011 per mile. N. S.
Wales selected the worst possible time for
a public works boom; but if two parties
with only one idea between them are com-
peting for support by providing well-paid
employment, complications are inevitable.
If the persons employed on State Gov-
ernment loan works alone, including those
who supplied raw materials, received an
average of £5 per week, the amount spent
and charged to posterity in 1927-28 would
have provided employment for 178,500, or
28i per 1000 of the population, also for
their families. Then there were the numer-
ous unemployed and their families in addi-
tion. The last count of the unemployed in
Britain (March. 1929) set them at 1.182,500,
or 26J per 1000 of the population. One
inference is that if Britain, in pro-
portion to population, employed as many
of its inhabitants on loan works as
the Australian State Governments do,
there would be no unemployed left, and
that if the Australian State Governments
abjured loan works as much as the British
Government does, they would have suffi-
cient unemDloyed to ensure a revolution,
unless this country took the sane track, and
by a lavish suppression of imports found
productive employment and provided wages
out of its own resources.
The effort to keep up the present artificial
and wholly undesirable conditions have
already strained Australia almost to burst-
ing-point.
IS THE THEATRE DOOMED?
The approaching total extinction of the
legitimate theatre is again announced. I
do not go into mourning. Although not old,
I have lived through all the greatest mech-
anical changes in the media by which man-
kind strives to express its higher aspirations
in Art. I remember when it was predicted
that photography would eliminate the
artist. So confident were the camera men of
the superiority of their medium that they
formed themselves into photographic art
clubs. I belonged to one myself. We in-
vited a distinguished artist to initiate us
into the mysteries of composition, design and
tonal relationships. Then we went out in
a body, surrounded inoffensive gum-trees,
and “shot” them. The results were solemnly
adjudged, and all the cant that generations
of critics have manufactured about paint-
ing was used in describing them. An art-
photograph magazine printed one of my
efforts and announced that it indicated that
I had a soul above earthly things. As a
matter of fact, in that particular picture
I hadn’t got the machine in focus. An-
other member won a prize and had his
picture hung in an art gallery because,
according to the critics, it revealed an
almost religious awe towards the mysteries
of Nature. His trouble was that his en-
larging camera was groggy and he had not
been able to ensure proper definition.
The nonsense about photography—even
colored photography—ousting the manual
artist has almost died out except in the jour-
nals devoted to the industry. The interest
in manual art was never greater. Almost
every newspaper has now a black-and-
white cartoonist —sometimes half a dozen
of them. Whereas 40 years ago the portrait
painters were an ignoble and poverty-
stricken few, they are to-day numerous
and prosperous, and live in constant danger
of being found along with brewers in the
Birthday honors list. It is a bad year for
W. B. Mclnnes if he does not get a dozen
commissions, and there are painters who
refuse to lay a brush to canvas for less than
£3OO.
Another innovation was the gramophone.
I honor it. It introduced me to Caruso,
Melba, Paderewski, Beethoven, Wagner
and Irving Berlin in the wilds where
lived, and in some cases the acquaintance
has ripened into friendship. When the
gramophone overcame its initial scratcm-
ness the same claims were made for it as
had been advanced for the camera. Wreis-
lers would cease to exist because no bo y
would pay to hear them if they could listen
in comfort at home to a cheap rec 9* ;
Recent seasons in Australia indicate that
the Kreislers are multiplying exceedingly.
During the last opera season in Melbourne
I got into conversation with a seedy-look-
ing member of the audience in the gallery
at His Majesty’s. He came three times a
week, but, above all, he never missed a
performance of “Lohengrin”—because he
had it on his gramophone. He was a peanut
vendor.
It would be a waste of space to traverse
other examples, such as the pianola ana
broadcasting. The last-named has not had
time yet to justify its boast that, with the
aid of television, it is going to displace
newspapers, election meetings and public
attendances at cricket matches, not to men-
tion the drama and literature; but it is
significant that the newspaper and book
industries were never more active, one
reason given being that the scraps of in-
formation flung over the ether create a
hunger for the full meal that can only be
provided by the printed language. I suggest
that the talking picture will perform the
same service for the legitimate stage.
M.G.S.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Service.
Two years ago The Bulletin set up its
new Service Department. The longer
the paper lived the more it was satis-
fied that the men and women living
outside the bigger settlements of Aus-
tralia deserved much more consider-
ation than they were getting. Their place
in the community is enormously important;
yet they are consistently neglected by Gov-
ernments. As the cost of living has been
pushed up, the country dweller has more
than ever “got it in the neck,” for he almost
alone has not been able to pass on the high
costs to someone else.
The Bulletin decided that it must do
something more towards correcting his
handicap. With that in view, the Service
Department and the Man on the Land s
sections were established. Both have been
astonishingly successful. Through the
Service Department readers were invited to
write to The Bulletin -whenever they were
in doubt or trouble. As might have been
expected, the Department has been most
used by those seeking information or expert
advice—to what extent can best be judged
by the fact that the 10,000 th communication
was dealt with last week; and as the average
communication asks between, two and three
questions, this means that in two years up-
wards of 25,000 applications have been
made for assistance in some form or other.
Very many of the questions involve long
and far-reaching search; and in that con-
nection The Bulletin again acknowledges
the invaluable help of Government depart-
ments in every State, more particularly the
Agricultural and Health Departments; and
the Universities have just as ungrudgingly
placed their special knowledge at the Ser-
vice Department’s disposal.
Where the Department is going to end
The Bulletin itself does not know. One
thing is certain, the demands upon it grow
steadily greater. So far from this causing
concern, it offers only gratification and
encouragement.
♦
The Land of Lumpy Provinces.
Another New State Convention has been
sitting at Armidale in northern N. S.
Wales, and debating a proposition which
would be self-evident in any country save
Australia. It is that when three-fourths of a
continent contains four States averaging
583,980 square miles each, or 78i per cent,
of the whole, they are far too large to be
efficiently governed from one centre apiece.
Neither Canada nor Brazil, each of them
much larger than the Commonwealth, pos-
sesses a self-governing area of such mon-
strous dimensions as Westralia, and the
United States, almost exactly the same
size as the Commonwealth, has none to
equal even N. S. Wales.
The national aspect of the question is
that the Australian continent, which now
consists of five States and three Territories,
might be much better if subdivided into at
least nine States and several extra Terri-
tories. The more fertile and settled por-
tions of Queensland and N.S.W. might
make three States apiece. The centre and
north of Westralia and possibly some of
the dry west of Queensland and N.S.W-
might revert with advantage to the Terri-
torial stage. The Territories of the United
States, when such existed, had a small local
Legislature each, with all the customary
powers except that its acts might be
annulled by the Federal Congress. It
hadn’t to telegraph to any comatose Can-
berra to get something done. It did things
for itself, and its doings held good unless
its Canberra came out of sleep and dis-
allowed them for specific reasons. It had
a Governor, often a local man, appointed
for four years from headquarters, and he


IN CASE OF ACCIDENTS.
“Mr. McCormack, the Premier, addressed a hostile element in the audience as ‘wobs’.... In 14 years of Labor rule, the State debt has increased from £56,800,000 to
£115,000,000, £19,000,000 has been lost on the railways and nearly £4,000,000 on other State enterprises, taxation has become the highest in Australia, and there were
13,345 registered unemployed in December.”
PHARAOH McCORMACK: “Consider the works of my sacred dynasty, ye wobs! And all in fourteen years.”
LOWLY CREATURE: “Mighty indeed are thy works, O Pharaoh, and costly withal. And which pyramid wouldst thou prefer to be buried under if thy slaves should
be so unfortunate as to lose thee suddenly?”
and the local Legislature appointed local
officials. His Ex. didn’t spend most of his
time interviewing the Great Brass Hat at
the Federal capital, though subsidies fur-
nished food for discussion. The Terri-
tories had no voting power in Congress
till the}' blossomed into States, but they
had plenty of direct control of their own
affairs—much more than the outlying
suburbs of our own big political estates
have.
As for those parts of Australia which
are too hopeless to have any affairs, the
Commissioner system of administration
which applies in the frozen north of
Canada might apply.
After the great subdivision the Aus-
tralian might really begin to learn some-
thing about the progress he is making with
his own country. At present he may know,
for instance, that Westralia is doing mod-
erately well; but Westralia is equivalent to
27 States of the American Union, and there
is need for less lumpy intelligence than
that. With subdivision it would be shown
in a handy form what progress in popula-
tion, agriculture, etc., was being made by
different areas—whether, in fact, the pro-
gress was confined to a scrap in the south-
west where the capital lies, and whether any,
and if so what, areas were losing what little
they ever had. If the continent could be
carved into 20 States and Territories in
time for the 1931 census, and the published
summary informed the public in simple
words that a dozen of them were drifting
back to the aboriginal condition, while the
rest only bloated in comers where the big
cities and the big debts are, some useful
interest might be aroused.
♦
The Moral of the Mudbank.
“Civis” : For many years now the Inspector-
General of Military Forces has made reports
of increasing gloom as to the straits to
which our land forces are being reduced;
and what has been done to remedy it?
The Compulsory Training system has been
whittled away and so starved that its train-
ing has been seriousty impaired, and brilliant
officers have been forced to leave a service
where prospects were so black; the Air
Force has been compelled to carry on
mainly with equipment presented by
Britain; and it is only within the last few
years that the Navy has been provided with
a few new ships and sufficient money to
extend its training cruises a little.
There has been no lack of warning from
competent authorities such as Jellicoe,
Salmond and Chauvel as to our exposed
position and the steps necessary to ensure
some security for the future. Yet we are
content to drift along, spending on defence
per head less than one-third of what heavily
taxed' John Bull thinks necessary.
That the public has fallen into such
apathy is largely the fault of the sensa-
tional dailies, which do nothing to solve
national problems until some aeroplane is
missing. Then they find a target for their
cheap abuse in the Defence Department
which they had previously ignored.
In connection with the Southern Cross
affair, what prevented the dispatch of suit-
able machines by the Air Force was not the
unwillingness of the authorities to use
them, but the neglect of the country to
provide them.
*
Was General McCay to Blame?
Dear Bulletin,— Speaking at the Sydney
Legacy Club’s Anzac luncheon, the A.I.F.
war correspondent set himself to the task
of defending the reputation of General
McCay. He said: “No more classic example
of the injustice of popular verdicts in Aus-
tralia existed than the attribution of blame
to General McCay.” I, for one, eagerly
await Captain Bean’s proofs, and shall re-
ceive them with delight.
First, Captain Bean tells us that General
McCay was not responsible for the “unfor-
gettable desert march of the Fourth and
Fifth Divisions from Tel-el-Kebir to the
Suez Canal.” We are told that someone
higher up ordered the foolish and unneces-
sary thing. I am glad to know General
McCay was not responsible for it. But
there was more than the actual fact of
the march. The troops did not carry
sufficient water, and chose a route
away from the sweet-water canal. The re-
sponsibility for that belongs to someone,
too. I do not know who it is. I would
like to know.
General McCay is also defended from
blame in connection with the casualties of
the 2nd Brigade at Krithia. I do not think
A.I.F. men question the need for the Battle
of Krithia; what is in doubt is whether
there was need for General McCay’s bri-
gade to take part in it, and especially how
it came about that the brigade got what
seemed to be some hundreds of yards
beyond the line, thus permitting it to
be enfiladed by the enemy’s rifle-fire. The
apparent error may be open to the
most complete explanation. It ought to be
forthcoming, and until it is forthcoming
many a Digger will feel bitterness.
Captain Bean is reported as also saying:
“When the Fifth Division came to fight the
Battle of Fromelles, blame for this episode
was also thrown upon General McCay.”
May we assume, then, that Captain Bean’s
inquiries have convinced him that General
McCay did not offer the division for this
fight? It seems to some of us that any sug-
gestion to use the division might well have
been resisted. Was it resisted? The Aus-
tralian guns came up only the day before,
and had no ranges. It was an impossible
battle on our knowledge of the ground and
preparation for it. It was dashing newly-
arrived troops at a well-consolidated posi-
tion, a repetition of Krithia, only in this
case we knew how strongly the position was
held; at Krithia we did not. It may be that
General McCay put all this before the
higher command. Will Captain Bean
set many a troubled mind at rest by pro-
ducing the proofs?
And granting that the General was in
no way responsible, how came it that
arrangements were not made beforehand for
the widening of the saps at necessary points
and the construction of “bays” to allow the
wounded to be removed and the reinforce-
ments and ammunition to go up to the
front? The congestion during the fight
was a great cause of loss. Captain Bean
calls the Battle of Fromelles an “episode.”
It was a tragedy.
Incidentally, Captain Bean says that the
Germans failed to identify the sth Division
Australians until the Battle of Fromelles. He
knows, of course, that they had identified us
bejore the battle, and knew our plans, and
were prepared for the attack.—Yours truly,
Miltiades.
4
A Law Which Discredits the Law.
The N.S.W. Association of Accountants
lately forwarded the Prime Minister a copy
of a resolution “urging the abolition of the
arbitration system on the ground that Gov-
ernments were unable to enforce the awards
of the Court.” This disability has pro-
cured the repeal of hundreds of repugnant
laws in the past, and rightly so, since unen-
forceable laws make a laughing-stock of
the whole legal system.
There is another aspect of the matter.
Burke laid down a principle nearly two
centuries ago which no British community
has flouted for any length of time without
becoming involved in trouble—in effect, that
a course of action must not only be right,
but must seem right. Nothing is more essen-
tial to the prestige and authority of the
law than that the national Courts should
be free from any appearance of political
feeling. For this reason the High Court
decided at the beginning of its career that
none of its members should sit as Com-
missioners. In a quarter of a century only
one exception has been made—when Justice
Rich, with the acquiescence of his fellow-
Judges, agreed to inquire into the Liverpool
Camp scandal at the beginning of the war.
Far from being able to take a similar
high and confidence-inspiring line, the occu-
pants of our Arbitration Court benches are
down in the dust and recrimination of the
political arena almost every day of their
working lives. A political or, anyhow, an
industrial outlook is one of the requirements
of an appointee, and, as a result, it is
always known by the public on what side,
say, Justice Piddington, of Sydney, will be
in any case, and similarly on what side,
say, Judge Lukin, of Brisbane, will be.
Judge Lukin has not been on the Bench
long, yet he has already been burned in
effigy—an insult to which no High Court or
Supreme Court Judge has been subjected
within living memory—and, if the employers
went in for that sort of demonstration, Jus-
tice Piddington’s image would also have
gone up in flames long ago.
No one dreams of censuring an Arbitra-
tion Court Judge in an official manner, no
matter how partisan and provocative his
utterances may be. for the simple reason
that their jurisdiction has come to be re-
garded as a sort of hustings rather than as
a repository of pure justice.
An inevitable effect as time goes on must
be to tar other Courts—an even stronger
argument against the system than its admit-
ted inability to enforce its awards.
More About Law Reform.
Dear Bulletin,— Should the N. S. Wales
Government decide to appoint a Royal
Commission to inquire into Law Reform,
it will be essential to exercise the greatest
care in selecting the personnel. The work
of the body will not consist simply in hear-
ing, sifting and collating evidence and
coming to certain conclusions therefrom.
The attainment of success in the practice
of the legal profession may be regarded as
prima facie evidence that the successful
man has won the confidence of the public,
but that man does not necessarily possess
the qualifications which will enable him to
detect, and suggest remedies for, the weak-
nesses in the system under which he is
fortunately basking in the sunshine of pros-
perity.
May I suggest that the Commission be
constituted as follows: (a) Two barristers,
not only learned in the law, but liberal
minded withal, with no absurd belief in the
divinity that doth hedge the present legal
system; ( b ) two solicitors with similar
qualifications; (c) a banker and a mer-
chant, well known and experienced; (d)
a trusted representative (or perhaps two)
of the Labor movement —not the political
movement but the genuine industrial
movement. That politics must be left out
of the inquiry goes without saying. But
the need for radical changes most vitally
affects the poor and middle classes—that js
why I think their interests should be speci-
ally considered on the Commission.
I think that a woman should be added,
not only because there are so many matters
in our legal system which specially affect
women and children, but because a woman’s
instinct often leads her to sound conclu-
sions where a man with his allegedly
superior logical brain may fail.—Yours, etc.,
Daniel Levy.
Sugar and the Empire.
Though, as the Sugar Federation of the
British Empire lately pointed out, Britain
first taught the world how to produce cane-
sugar, the country is now in the position of a
dependent on foreigners for most of its sup-
plies. America, with a strongly co-ordinated
system, which includes Cuba and the Philip-
pines, is the world’s greatest producer, with
the Dutch Indies following on, and the sub-
sidised beet-sugar of the European Conti-
nent another important factor. Within the
Empire only Australia and South Africa are
important producers, though Canada has
begun what promises to be a great beet-
sugar industry.
In 1928 Britain imported 215.323 tons of
refined sugar from foreign countries, and
6421 from British sources. Of unrefined,
562,734 tons came in from Empire sources
against 1,710,174 tons from the outlanders.
Of the world production of 28.218,000 tons,
the Empire produces only 4,675,000, includ-
ing India’s 3,000,000 tons, which do not
supply that country’s demands.
Apart from the Canadian beet-sugar en-
terprise, the Sugar Federation can see
release from foreign domination only in an
extension of the cane-growing areas in the
Dominions and Crown Colonies. To make
this possible there must be agreement
among the three sections of the Empire in-
terested as to the policy best calculated to
increase production and facilitate marketing,
which amounts in the end to a readjustment
of Imperial preferences. It is the ques-
tion of profitable marketing that over-rides
all else.


GAEL Iq
i spec
RESERV
RED, WHITE and BLUE
WHISKY
Gaelic Special Reserve
DEARER BUT BETTER
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO., LTD.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN AGENTS: JAMES HENTY & CO., 499 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: B. SEPPELT & SONS, LTD., 444 QUEEN STREET, BRI SBANE.
$3 L/c
RES
t'd
POLITICAL
POINTS
The closure of the Commonwealth Bank’s
branch in New York is a sign that the big
and puffy days are passing. The branch
wasn’t allowed to take deposits, but it did
a trifle in the remittance of money to Aus-
tralia—such money as there was to remit,
Queensland Opposition-leader MOORE.
and it also had a mission respecting the flo-
tation of Australian loans in Manhattan.
The loan business, however, is very flat. In
fact it is reported that some of the securities
which Uncle holds are being sold in Aus-
tralia at a discount. They are free of Aus-
tralian taxes, both State and Federal, so they
are nice securities for an Australian investor
to hold, but they are a loss to the local
Treasuries.
Election-day is to be observed as a holi-
day on the Queensland Government railways,
which managed to lose £1,622,000 last year,
and hands who can’t be spared will be paid
extra. The staff already gets annual holi-
days, with a lavish distribution of passes,
and there are 16 public holidays p.a. besides.
Railway employment figures (the Common -
wealth Statistician’s) at June 30 in the last
three State-election years (1920-23-26) and
those immediately preceding and following
are subjoined:—
1919 .. 19,432 1924 .. 19,678
1920* . . 21,046 192.7 .. 19,884
1921 . . 18,122 1926* .. 22,036
1922 .. 18,320 1927 .. 19,676
1923* .. 20,871
♦Election years.
The Labor majorities in eight districts which
decided the last election ranged from 23 to
442, the total being 1635; and the railway
staff had been increased by over 2000. It
shows what the Moore party is up against.
Ex-Attorney - Gen-
eral Eggleston (Vic.),
whom St. Ivilda re-
jected two years ago,
is keeping his name
before the public by
industriously contri-
buting to newspapers
and magazines. St.
Kilda may be willing
to have him back;
certainly it has lost a
lot of its enthusiasm
for Gray. Still, Eggle-
ston might prefer to
go to Canberra if his
friend Watt decided
that he couldn’t stand
the place any longer.
Vic. Cockies and
Country Progs, are to
have another confer-
ence on May 17. While
agreeing that unity
would be a blessed
thing, the delegates
who conferred recently
differed on the ques-
tion of composite Gov-
F.W. Eggleston.
ernments, the Oockies being for and the
Progs, against. Both sections declared un-
compromising opposition to election pacts,
Federal or State, which means that each
is at liberty to oppose Nationalists as well
as Laborites. That is only right; but John
Allan should not growl, as he did lately,
at Nats, contesting seats which Cockies claim
as theirs.
Joe Ward expects to signalise his first
year of resurrection with a deficit. Deficits
are less common in Maoriland than in Aus-
tralia, but Maoriland may grow accustomed
to them if it retains Joseph. The Blizzard
of Finance dazzled the eummunity with a
£70,000,000 foreign loan policy, the biggest
thing of its kind in Australasian history.
The first instalment of £7,000,000 was duly
floated in London and began to carry in-
terest immediately, but the promised boom
didn’t begin to bear fruit immediately, which
is a regular experience.
While all the other State Governments
have arranged to use the Commonwealth
machinery for the enrolment of electors, the
Queensland Labor concern persists in run-
ning an enrolment factory of its own. Some-
how it always enrols 30,000 or 40,000 more
adult Queenslanders than the Federal officers
can find. And while Westralian Labor
passes an honest redistribution-of-seats mea-
sure which does away with five Labor
pocket-boroughs, Queensland Labor refuses
to alter an arrangement of boundaries which
gives 1342 Laborites a member in Flinders
(Mullan, of the Electoral Department) while
denying one to 5000 Nationalists in Bulimba,
and is stiff with corresponding swindles.
Aided by such devices, Queensland Labor
wins State elections hands down. Yet it has
only three members in the House of Reps.,
and has had no more since 1919, nor has it
elected a Senator since 1914.
Being asked if the new safeguarding duties
were helping the British silk and motor in-
dustries, the president of the Board of Trad.'
replied that they had so far produced 22
new silk factories and 16 new motor fac-
tories, to say nothing of extensions to exist-
ing factories. If John Bull’s community would
only authorise more duties, the machinery for
action being available, more progress might
be expected. But the ironworkers and the
textile people wobble between two opinions,
and the list of £33 6s. Bd. per cent, duties
doesn’t grow as it should.
There was an appalling death-roll in
Berlin on May Day. Paris, which has five
times as many Communists as Berlin, came
through without so much as a broken head.
It is the custom of Poincare to meet the
least hint of violence with counter-demonstra-
tions that cost the State nothing, give a lift
to the moral of the police, and make the
prophets of strikes-with-violence look cheap.
He justifies his action in thus robbing the
Reds of their fun by pointing out that the
nation has its debts to pay, and that the
debts never will be paid if agitators arc
allowed to work in restraint of trade.
Periodically somebody revives Wilson’s
original proposal to make the League of
Nations into a sort of cop of the universe.
Four years ago a Maorilander named Hyde
presented a plan for providing the institution
with an army and navy. The latest propo-
sition, of Spanish origin, aims at an inter-
national air force. The Preparatory Dis-
armament Committee fairly gibbered with
horror while the scheme was being rushed
with a pair of tongs into the fireplace.
The billet to which Herbert Brookes has
been appointed, that of Trade Commissioner
(or Commissioner-General) in the United
States, had been vacant some time because
the Bruce Ministry was considering “the
various forms that representation might
take.” So far it has taken the simple form
of being the mug in the commercial game.
Consideration is allegedly being given to the
possibility of appointing “diplomatic repre-
sentatives in foreign capitals.” The Irish
Free State has a full-sized plenipotentiary at
Washington and entertains a United States
Minister at Dublin, yet its luck at selling
things to Uncle is even worse than ours.
A nice little traffic war has started now
between N. S. Wales and S. Australia, and
neither of them can afford it. In the days
before the railway was pushed through from
Sydney to Broken Hill, the trade of the
silverfield was wholly S. Australia’s —it had
a monopoly for just 40 years. Now Adel-
aide and Sydney merchants are scrapping
for the morsel, and of course have bitten
the ears of their respective railway chiefs
for support, which is being given. One
result has been that flour has been selling
at less in Broken Hill than in either Adel-
aide or Sydney, despite extra cartage of
anything from three to five hundred miles.
In the contest between the Timber Work-
ers’ Union and the Governments of Australia
and N. S. Wales, the honors, so far, are ail
with the union, Forty-nine men who dared
to work in timber yards on Arbitration Court
terms and conditions have been bashed —some
had their skulls caved in as they lay un-
conscious—and very few arrests have been
made. On two occasions the union has
mocked at the laws of Commonwealth and
State in public processions, each time with
police sanction and protection. The bard
who fixed the latitude at which the laws of
God and man/cease to function will have
to revise his geography.
Knox, M.L.A., who was mentioned for the
Agency-General before Leitch was selected,
has become a strong critic of the McPherson
Ministry (Vic.) on the score of its endorse-
ment of South Kensington for the metropoli-
tan saleyards. He took the subject to the
Nat. party caucus, but McPherson managed
to persuade his followers that the project
was really only a rearrangement and exten-
sion of the existing Newmarket yards. In
any case, the Railway Standing Committee
will have to recommend the proposed outlay
of £700,000 on additional railway facilities
before Parliament approves.
A question that might be asked at the
Southern Cross-Kookaburra inquiry is why
R.A.A.F. headquarters wasn’t able to keep
in touch with its own machines. Amateurs
were in constant communication with the
privately-owned ’planes. The latest project
of Defence Minister Glasgow is to mobilise
members of the Wireless Institute as a re-
serve. But however efficient and numerous
ground stations may be, they are not going
to be of much use if the transmitters in the
R.A.A.F. machines are so feeble or ill-
designed that nobody can hear them.
Maoriland
Minister
P.A. de la
Perrelle.
P. A. de la Perrelle,
Maoriland's Minister of
Internal Affairs, pro-
poses to put unem-
ployed men and their
families on “small
holdings capable of
intensive cultivation
in the vicinity of in-
land towns and .near
dairy factories.” It
has been tried before
without success; but
De la Perrelle expects
to work wonders with
the old dodge. The
root cause of unem-
ployment in Fernland
is the importation of
millions of pounds of
stuff annually that
could be profitably
manufactured in the
Dominion —and would
be if the tariff were
what it should be.
At brief intervals
Sydney is aggravated
by the news that the
main Southern or
Western or Some
Other road is in an alarming con-
dition, though it generally knows of the fact
unofficially in advance. The latest com-
plaint is about the venomous state of a
section of the Southern-road about 60 miles
from the city, which is said to have been
reconstructed a few years ago at a cost of
£7OOO per mile. The theory is advanced that
part of the trouble arises through the send-
ing of unemployed, often amateurs, from the
big towns to do reconstruction work, they
having no particular interest in it apart
from the wages and the duration of the job.
It might be different if local men -wore
employed. They want a good road for t
own use, and so do their local cobbers, _w
may speak to them afterwards if they aon i
supply the goods.
Philip Snowden made an earthquake when
he suggested that a Labor Government might
repudiate Britain’s settlement with h ranee
over the French debt, as no Government is
bound by the acts of its predecessors. Snow-
ball explains that no Labor Ministry would
dream of repudiation, but “if the G}°vcim-
ment entered into a contract with another
country which a succeeding Government ot
another party would be expected to accept,
it was the first Government’s duty to con-
sult the party which might have to adhere
to the agreement.” In other words, shomd
the Bruce majority propose entering into
any contract which will leave a debt for a
successor to pay, it should first consult the
Scullin minority. Perhaps it would be better
if Snowflake offered the simple lie that he
had been drinking. The British public is
forbearing to a man in beer.
City Commissioner
Morton.
The official term of
the Civic Commission
which is - trying to
clean up the Tam-
manyism of Sydney
expires on the last day
of 1929. It is to be
reluctantly extended
so that the Ministry
may have leisure to
concoct a Greater
Sydney scheme, but
will end for certain
before this Parlia-
ment has run its
course. Hopes are
entertained that some
one will contrive be-
fore then- a really
decent and honest
Greater Sydney gov-
ernment system. But
even if there is only
time for a makeshift
the gnawing of con-
science won’t allow
Bavin and Co. to keep
the city without aider-
men any longer.
When Queensland Labor arrived in office
taxation was comparatively light, a tax-
revenue of £954,400 sufficing; also the State
railways were paying handsomely, and the
public debt stood at £56,869,000. After
13 years of Labor-socialist endeavor the
public debt had reached £111,730,000, and the
railways showed losses amounting to
£17,777,000, while another £3,700,000 had
been chucked away on various bankrupt
State enterprises. Naturally taxation has
become terrific. In income-tax alone the
Government screwed £2,821,200 out of the
people in ’26-27, an amount not far short of
the combined collections in Vic. (£2,382,900)
and Westralia (£619,000), which States had
2,133,000 people that year as against
Queensland’s 899,000. Queenslanders are
taxed £2 per head to meet the railway losses
alone.
With great expectations of a £2,000,000
deficit, the Federal Treasurer should climb
down from his perch on the tree of optimism
and face tough realities. The return from the
Customs is £735,105 less than that at May
1 last year, and £1,634,415 less than was
expected, The Treasurer anticipated bigger
imports, and he got smaller ones instead, and
no one had taken thought to double the tariff
or take any elementary precaution of that
sort, so that less goods might yield more
money. The Commonwealth didn’t import
enough to give Doc. Page the revenue he
wanted, and yet it imported a great many
millions’ worth more than it could pay for
without incurring more external debt, and
without leaving a lot of its own people short
of employment.
Last year £412,200 was distributed in
Queensland unemployed relief; in December
there, were 13,345 out-of-works. On June 30
38,743 persons (exclusive of the many thou-
sands of Federal and municipal employees)
were getting their living by “working for the
Government”; allowing for the usual thump-
ing additions in election-years, the number is,
roughly, one-twelfth of the Commonwealth
enrolment for Queensland. And after 14
years of government on “Labor principles,”
the State which Nature made the richest
in Australia is reduced to a humiliating
dependence on Commonwealth Government
embargoes on imports of sugar, bananas and
peanuts. The extraordinary thing is that
the incompetents responsible for these sad-
dening results are intensely proud of them-
selves. There is'a distinct note of arrogance
in their election speeches.
“Bargara”: It is hard to follow the wild
and whirling orators of the Queensland
Labor party, but there is no ambiguity about
their State income-tax assessment forms. Mv
State tax on personal income came to £l7
this year, whereas the Commonwealth tax
on the same income was £6. McCormack’s
super-tax alone on my gross salary amounted
to one-third of the whole Federal levy, out of
which the war pensions are paid.
A TRANSFORMATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A. J. Cook, secretary of the Miners’ Federation,
met the Prince of Wales, who shook him by the hand
and spoke a few nice words to him. It was enough.
The rebel became a sycophant, the iconoclastic
Communist a crawler in the mud outside the palace
gates.” —Australian Worker.
It was enough. A pat, a pleasant word —
The lion ceased to roar and, catlike, purred.
The savage eagle changed to outward view
Into an amicable cockatoo
Asking no more than that some kindly soul
Sliou d scratch its proffered and expectant
poll.
A touch of Royal favor proved the stuff
To tame the wild and soften down the tough.
It was enough.
It was enough. What though he smote the
great
Of earth in battle-cries that hummed with
hate;
What though it was inferred, from various
things
He’d said, he yearned to drink the blood
of kings;
What though the slogans that he framed out-
vied
The fiercest coinages of Tyne or Clyde;
All that was truculent in him or rough
Broke down, evanished like the smoke you
puff.
It was enough.
It was enough. And lest you should suppose
The censure emanates from envious foes,
’Tis worth a mention that the view’s ex-
pressed
By those who loved him most and knew him
best.
Down from his lofty pedestal he crashed,
The tribune with the tongue that scorched
and lashed,
When he announced a debonair and bluff
Prince and himself were mates beneath the
buff.
.That was enough.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Exdig”: Anzac Day in Sydney had its
romances, and one at least was a plant of
rapid growth. One of a bunch of Diggers
who were about to celebrate the reunion got
a surprise when a barmaid approached
to take orders; he had met her in Eng-
land. where he and a mate had been
entertained in a house where she was a
frequent visitor. His mate, the Digger knew,
had subsequently married the girl; he now
learned for the first time that she was a
widow and had taken to barmaiding to help
out a small pension. With characteristic
Digger impulsiveness he decided right away
that he didn’t like seeing the girl in the
bar; next day he determined that it was up
to him to get her out of it. The wedding
bells rang on the third day (Saturday)
metaphorically, that is, for the pair were
made one in a registry office.
* * * *
“Double Disc”: One thing that hasn’t been
mentioned about military decorations is the
change that took place during the last year
of the war. In 1917
the D.C.M., the most
prized of all awards
except the V.C., was
actually bestowed on
a sergeant baker in
the A.S.C. at Le
Havre for no discern-
ible reason except that
his bread was excel-
lent. Various A.P.C.
and A.S.C. officers
whose duties never
brought them within
miles of the line re-
ceived the M.C., and
so bitter was the feel-
ing amongst the fight-
ing soldiers that the
whole question of the
award of decorations
was raised in the
House of Commons,
with the result that
from early in 1918 the
M.C. and D.C.M. were
awarded only for
bravery in action. It
is a pretty safe
assumption that any
soldier, from a ser-
geant. downwards, who
was awarded the
D.C.M. was originally
recommended for the
V.C. Next to the little bronze cross it was
the hardest decoratiou for a member of a
fighting unit to get.
* if * *
“Meteren”: Enemy tributes were not con-
fined to grave-side courtesies (B. l/5/’29). At
Pozieres, on the, track from the Chalk Pit
towards Casualty Corner, I saw a Digger
hobbling along with a badly-wounded leg;
with him was a German whose sound arm—
the other hung down, shattered—was sup-
porting his companion. Fritz was obviously
risking liis own life to try and hurry the
Digger through the big stuff - that the German
artillery was lobbing over. On the tragic
corner the German collected a second
issue ’ and the P air wcllt awa y side by
side in the ambulance after a padre had
handed the German his blessing and a double
handful of cigarettes. And at Passcliendaele,
when ploughing through knee-deep mud. we
struck a burly infantryman humping an
undersized enemy on his back towards the bat-
talion dressing-station. He told us, as if his
act called for some excuse: “Well, a man
had to come down this way, and seeing the
poor cow lying there made me think of the
time I was knocked and waiting for stretcher-
bearers.”
* * * *
“Light Horse”: Firewood was a precious
thing at Anzac, and any odd bit of timber,
wherever found, would be zealously carried
to the trenches to boil quartpots. Return-
ing to Eyrie’s Post from the beach one
night during the storm in November 15 a
corporal in the fifth L. H. Regt. noticed a
piece of timber floating on the edge of the
beach. He waded in, secured the flotsam
and carried it more than half a mile to his
dug-out. There he discovered, to his horror,
that he had been carrying the upright por-
NO RISK THEN.
ANN : “Tell her a secret and it goes no further.”
NANN: “How splendid!”
ANN: Yes. But of course you always tell all the other girls first!”
tion of a cross from one of the graves m
the beach cemetery, evidently washed away
during the storm. He stared blankly at
it for a minute, then retraced his way to
the beach (though it was nearly midnight)
and reverently placed his burden in the
surf as near as possible to where he found
it.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: Occasionally a man believed
to have perished in the wilds returns safe
and sound, to read eulogistic
obituary notices of himself and
poetic tributes. Staniforth
Smith, ex-Senator and Commis-
sioner for Lands in Papua,. is
Australia’s most outstanding
instance. Stan went exploring
on the Fly River about 17 years
ago, and he and his par.ty were
supposed to have been massacred
by truculent natives. It wasn’t
till weeks later that they turned
up in a small craft at Thurs-
day Island to prove that rumor
had lied. Meanwhile much had
been written about the lost
leader of the sort that is usually
reserved for tombstones and epi-
taphs. At Kalgoorlie, where he
had been mayor before he was
elected to the Senate in 1901,
flags were half-masted, and the
Council drank the departed one’s
health in solemn and sorrowful
silence. But Stan was anything
but dead; he lived to do his bit
in the war, after that he had a
magisterial spell at Darwin, and
for years past he has been back
in his Papuan job—only a few
months ago he returned to it
with a bride. I have sometimes
wondered if lie ever read half
the appreciative things that
were printed about him when nobody ever
expected to see him again.
“Hayband”: A Salvation Army uniform
occasionally covers some quite unexpected
qualities. After *a street performance one
Saturday evening in Temora (N.S.W.) the
collection was being taken up by a slender
stranger, who ventured into a hotel and was
promptly invited to drink. When he refused,
a powerful man, with a face like a section of
a cliff, poured the butt-end of a beer on the
Army's bare hair. The demanded apology
waisn’t forthcoming, and two minutes after-
wards the fight was on in the back yard.
The big fellow had plenty of pluck, but
nasty-looking taps whizzed at him from all
over the compass, and it was soon clear that
the man in uniform could have hammered the
nose off him. Suddenly the latter put down
his hands, reached for the collection-box and
suggested that his opponent should insert ss.
therein. The other showed his sportsmanship
by producing a lOs.-note, drily remarking
that he’d had more than a dollar’s worth.
*** * *
“Murkah”: The Telegraph branch rose
splendidly to the occasion while the Southern
Cross and Kookaburra searches were on.
A statement appeared in print that messages
were received at La Perouse radio station
direct from the searching ’planes, but there
was no truth in it. The Canberra was trans-
mitting on a small receiving valve (they
are convertible) with a maximum reach of
80 to 100 miles. Every dot of information
concerning search and discovery reached
Sydney and Melbourne over the land-
lines in an average time of three minutes
from lodgment in the far Nor’-West of W.A.
Replies were handled with equal expedition,
enabling the search to be co-ordinated and the
maximum ground covered. In fact, it was a
hurried message from Melbourne that put the
Qantas plane on the track of the Kookaburra
and her ill-fated crew. A leading radio co.,
in claiming credit for its allegedly wonderful
organisation, has carefully omitted these
facts; it is the Government Department
which deserves any bouquets that may be
flying about. •
“State Fright”: A curious conviction has
been recorded at Tweed Heads (N.S.W.):
A Queensland auctioneer was fined £2OO for
selling land in N.S.W. without a State
license. He pleaded that the spot where lie
conducted the auction is only 30 feet from
the border of Queensland, for which State
he is licensed, but though the prosecution
admitted this and allowed that he could have
backed over into Queensland and conducted
the sale from there, if he had known how
the law stood, that didn’t save him. The
clause under which the victim of circum-
stances was fined so heavily is a survivor
from the pre-Federation period.
* * -f *
“Shep” : Much has been written of ( mal-
ingerers and their methods, but a Scotch
regiment we once bumped into boasted that
they had the “leadswinger’s hope.” In
spare moments he collected small jagged
lumps of shell in order to hand out slight
wounds at 20 francs a time. With a power-
ful elastic catapult he fired at close range
at an exposed and fleshy portion of the
patient’s anatomy, driving the shell fragment
in far enough to necessitate a trip to a
rest camp for dressings and anti-tetanus
serums.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Bill seems to be a regular cus-
tomer at the suburban pub where I call occa-
sionally, but my acquaintance with him was of
the slightest until the other evening, when he
insisted on introducing me to “me co-respon-
dent Tom.” I suppose I must have looked
a little bewildered, for Bill went on to ex-
plain that he had got his divorce two years
ago and “poor old Tom here married the
missus.” Tom, who was not markedly sober,
seemed rather uplifted by being several
times credentialled as “the best cobber a man
ever had,” on the ground that, in addition
to the missus, he “took over the instalments on
the blasted house, the furniture, the sewing-
machine and everythink.” My first idea was
that Bill was helping himself to an indirect
revenge by “kidding” Tom and getting him
drunk; but it was dissipated when he began
to urge him to get home, and to facilitate
his departure bought a flask of rum. “Put
it amongst the geraniums. Tom ; that’s where
I alius used ter ’ide it,” he urged. “But
you’d better get now—you know what she’s
like.” The co-re., looking alarmed at the
.reminder, did go; and Bill called for more
drinks. “The poor old cow!” he said. “You
don’t know what ’e’s goin’ ’ome to, but I
do.”
* * # *
“B-Gar”: I knew a Digger who always
carried a big roll of notes, but whenever he
thought there was any danger of getting
knocked he’d bury the money. The reason
he gave was—“Seein’ that I ain’t got no
relations, I’m not goin’ to let the heads get
my roll.” Ultimately a surprise attack by
the Turks did not give him time to plant
his wad. and he was killed at the first burst
of machine-gun fire. Still, his mates saw
to it that the heads didn’t profit, thereby
carrying out his last wishes, in a way. There
were 160 Egyptian 100-piastre notes in his
belt, and his health was drunk a few days
afterwards by the members of his troop till
the legacy was exhausted.
;j. ;| t $ *
“Centurion”: The appointment of Briga-
dier-General Wilson as chairman of the
board to inquire into recent aviation hap-
penings recalls that the little Light Horse-
man was responsible for one of the most,
spectacular and successful feats of the war
in Palestine. This was the cutting-off of the
Turkish retreat in the Barada Gorge, where
the Turks and Germans were trapped in a
lOOyds.-wide ravine- which the fire of the
Light Horsemen from the cliffs soon con-
verted into a mile-long shambles. Receiv-
ing orders to go round Damascus and
straddle the line of retreat to Homs on the
other side, Wilson decided that valuable time
would be saved by riding through the city,
then full of the enemy.- He entered it early
in the morning and. paying no attention to
the confused hordes which thronged the
streets, went ahead and completed the “entry
into Damascus.”
CANBERRA’S COAT-OF-ARMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The coat-of-arms granted to Canberra by Royal
Warrant is regarded as the most satisfactory in
Australia from the heraldic point of view. There
was a competition open to designers throughout the
Commonwealth, but Sir John Butters and his fellow-
judges turned down everything submitted and had a
design made by a Sydney heraldry expert to suit
their own tastes. The coat-of-arms includes a triple-
towered castle with a portcullis, a sword of justice,
a crown, a mace, a white rose, a gum-tree (faintly
outlined), a black and a white swan, and the motto
Pro Rege, Lege, Grege.”
There’s a casjle, a tough-looking place
Equipped with portcullis and moat,
A crown and a sword and a mace
On ’Berra’s armorial coat.
There’s a rose and the ghost of a gum,
And swans in two colors, a pair
Inserted-in lieu
Of the emu and'’roo
To buttress the gorgeous affair.
And the classical tag,
The dog-Latin gag?
Yes, that in addition is there!
There were artists aiiear and afar
With emblems less hackneyed to show,
But all they achieved was to jar
The souls of J. Butters and Co.
A fleece or a sheep or a pick,
The judges With horror would con,
A w’aratali (say)
They’d view with dismay
A city’s escutcheon upon;
No ci’est could afford
To go short of a sword.
And a crown was a sine qua non.
A cask only recently tapped,
A tavern sign newly revealed.
Might have held a significance apt _
On a flank or a point of the shield.
Some patriot speaking his piece
In orator’s attitude shown,
And giving it lip
With unction and zip,
Bike Deakins and Hugheses we’ve known.
Would have left on the crest,
I stoutly protest,
A freshness and charm of its own.
SHE WAS QUITE RIGHT.
MRS. COLDSTEW (to theatrical gent, who hasn’t paid up): “I think you had better
board elsewhere
MR. HAMFAT: “Yes."
MRS. COLDSTEW: “I beg your pardon .”
M RS. HAMFAT: “Madam, it is as you said—I have had better board elsewhere."
There are emblems, the usual lot.
That click with conventional rules;
In fact, there seems little forgot
Excepting some griffins and gules.
Designers who shot for a prize
Are left in the cold and the wet,
But Butters’s bunch
Are as happy as Punch,
And the College of Heralds, you bet,
The junk-heap surveys
With rapturous gaze,
And Canberra —Canberra’s set!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Chevroford”: Mathematics is not the
crook’s strongest point. Recently a car bear-
ing the number 127,103 was stolen in‘Mel-
bourne. To camouflage his theft the new
owner sawed the number-plate through and
re-arranged the two pieces to make a new
figure. Curiously enough, there was only
one way in which this could have been done
in order to avert detection. The crook
selected another. He made his cut between
the 2 and the 7, with the result that the
first alert constable he passed promptly
started in pursuit. The re-arranged number
w r as more than half a million higher than
the highest registration in the State.
* * * *
“Willah”: Another five years of isolation
must have altered the outlook of the Spanish
monks at the Drysdale River Mission, who
treated “Tristram R.” (B. 17/4/’29) with
such aloofness, for when two or tnree of us
visited them in 1926 they were unfeignedly
glad to see us. There and then the fatted
calf (actually it was goat and none too fat)
SHE HAD RATHER A POOR OPINION OF SLURK.
MR. SLURK: “Wonderful chap, Bunkly! Everything he touches turns into money.”
MRS. SLURK: “H’m! If he touched you, I suppose you’d turn into about twopence-
halfpenny.”
was killed, a bottle of wine produced from
their scanty store, and we were invited to
lunch. The fathers were very proud of the
fact that they were practically a self-sup-
porting community, and were eager to show
and discuss their methods of cultivation —-
they have a couple of acres planted. The
local abos. are physically of a very fine type.
Amomrst the hundred or more natives who
arrived for their Sunday ration of “Alleluia”
and tobacco was one of the biggest and
most magnificently-built men I’ve ever seen,
white, black or brown, and most of his
cobbers were close-handy to the six-foot
mark. “Tristram R’s” wooden cross, erected
over the grave of an Australian man-o’-wars-
man, has been replaced by one of concrete,
and the grave is kept scrupulously cleau
and neat by the mission folk.
* * * *
“Hayband”: Here’s the most deliberate
suicide I ever heard of. A Melbourne man
had children in Perth and Geraldton (W.A.),
also in Sydney and in Wellington (M.L.).
All of them were married. The West-
ralians were slightly astonished when Dad
announced a visit. He stayed a month,
and then left for Sydney, where he stayed
another month. Next, the Moeraki took
him to Wellington, where he also stayed
a month. Two days out on the return
journey to Sydney he went overboard
one dark night. Later, an examination of
his belongings in Melbourne showed that the
visits to his children were mere preliminaries
to the mournful event which he brought off
in the Tasman. “I’m just a lonely old
man,” he wrote, “and can’t be bothered
going on.” There were no financial diffi-
culties.
* * * *
“Spadassin”: The duellist is not such an
extinct species in Australia as is generally
supposed. Recently a municipal employee
in the Hawkesbury (N.S.W.) country felt
aggrieved at some criticisms passed on his
work by a councillor. Employing the local
newspaper as the traditional friend, he
issued a challenge to his critic to work
against him for a week, the man showing
himself the quickest and neatest road-
repairer to be deemed the conqueror and the
loser to pay £2O to him. In spite of strong
encouragement by ratepayers, the contest
was not held, the challenged person refus-
ing to take up the gage, even though entitled,
under the ancient laws of the duello, to the
choice of weapons.
* * * *
“James B.”: The Perth bridge in Tas-
mania, one of those destroyed in the recent
floods, was a monument to the fine work-
manship of the early-day btiilders. Nearly
700 ft, long and 100 ft. above the bed of the
river, it was unique in that neither wood
nor iron was used in the building. The solid
bluestone blocks, erected by convict labor and
embedded in the finest cement, had carried
the whole of the road traffic between the
north and south of the island, and withstood
all assaults by flood for 92 years.
* * * *
“Templar”: A point of some interest to
women who indulge in electioneering has just
been settled by an English Court. The wives
of three Parliamentary candidates at the
British general elections —all Londoners —
applied to be placed on the absent voters’
list in the constituency where they lived, on
the ground that their husbands would be
fighting elections in various parts of the
country on polling-day, and it was their
wifely duty to be with them as helpers.
The electoral registrar refused, and the ladies
took their case to the County Court. But
they did no better there. The Judge, while
admitting that it might be a wife’s duty to
obey if her husband bade her come and
help him fight an election, ruled that the
marriage contract implied no legal obligation
to do so. A candidate’s chauffeur, it was
held, was entitled to be placed on the absent
voters’ list because he couldn’t refuse to
accompany his boss without breaking his
contract, but a wife was not in the same
category.
* * * *
“Fingerpoint”: There have been many
attempts to open up the country where the
Southern Cross came to grief. As far back
as 1837 Lieutenant (afterwards Governor)
Grey landed at Hanover Bay and did some
exploring around the Prince Regent and
Glenelg rivers. An expedition left Champion
Bay (Geraldton) in 1863 in a small ketch,
and cruised the Lower Glenelg and Regent
rivers in quest of grazing country. On their
return they boosted the district as carrying
“thousands of acres of magnificent grass
7ft. high”; unfortunately it proved to be
the useless “spear” grass, although, if the
party had got past the coastal belt they
would have found magnificent grasses inland.
The Camden Harbor Association was formed
in Melbourne in 1864. and an attempt at
settlement made. But the rough country,
niggers and isolation caused the abandon-
ment of the enterprise. Twenty years later
the Victorian Squatting Company sent out
an expedition with 2000 sheep, which landed
on the west shore of Cambridge Gulf. But
it took two years before the rough coastal
range was penetrated, and by that time few
of the stock were left. In 1889 all that
remained of the company’s assets was sold
up at Wyndham. Still, a practicable route
had been opened around the head of the
Cambridge Gulf, and this was utilised in
1901 by F. S. Brockman, who mapped a
considerable area of the country.
“Zorro”: The smallest land deal on record
in Maoriland has just been concluded by the
Auckland City Council, which has purchased
from the Manchester Unity a strip of Hob-
son-street that measures five inches at one
end and four inches at the other. Years
have been spent in the negotiations, which
were necessitated by an error in the standard
survey. But Sydney has seen dozens of
smaller allotments sold. One of the latest
of the midgets was at Darling Point, where
a block of flats overlapped from 3Jin. to
nothing. The man who was buying made
the discovery, and it took a year of negotia-
tion to square matters. Incidentally, a very
experienced land-salesman says that in such
cases attempted blackmail is very rare.
“X.D.”: A tale
of casual relation-
ships was recently-
unfolded in a Mel-
bourne court. A
railway employee
was accused of
having gone
through the form
of tnatrimony with
one Australian
woman knowing
that his wife, an-
other Australian,
was still alive, The
case was proceed-
ing towards the
inevitable convic-
tion when some
mention was made
of the enterprising
benedict having
previously espoused
a lady in England.
Pressed on the
point, the accused
knitted his brows,
and after a tre-
mendous effort was
able to remember
the incident. This
made his third
marriage not big-
amy at all in rela-
tion to the second,
since the second
wife could not be a
wife in the eyes of
the law. The ac-
cused might have
been acquitted had
not a communica-
tion, of which he
was the subject,
arrived from Scot-
land Yard during
the progress of the
case. As the docu-
ment made no men-
tion of the earliest
adventure into
matrimony ’Sonah
thought it safe to
give the much-married one a year.
* # *
“Mariri”: Enmeshed by the scientific
spirit, a M.L. Government department re-
cently decided upon an exhaustive test of
all the samples of tobacco submitted by firms
competing for the new contract for supply-
ing prisons.; A smoker of long experience
and robust physique was commissioned to
sample all the brands and exhorted to do
if thoroughly. He did —so thoroughly, in
fact, that when the time came for him to
make his report to the department he was
unable to do so, being sick in bed.
* * * *
“Machete”: I once sojourned in a Darling-
hurst boarding-house the table furnishings
of which had been
gathered from all the
seven seas. The crock-
ery bore the badges of
at least a dozen
famous steamship
lines, including many
that had never run to
Australia, among them
the Pacific Steam
Navigation Co. and
the Royal Mail Packet
line, which run out of
Liverpool to the South
Americas and the West
Indies. The Union and
the Castle lines, then
separate concerns, re-
presented South Afri-
can interests. One
particularly interest-
ing curio was a set of
plates with the badge
of the Guion line, a
Liverpool enterprise
which once held the
Atlantic blue ribbon
with the Alaska, but
has long been swal-
lowed up by bigger
companies. I never
had the nerve to ask
the peroxided landlady
how her stock of eat-
ing tackle had been
acquired.
“Pawang”: Medicoes all over the conti-
nent have been watching with keen interest
the course of a case in Melbourne. John
Albert Stout, tailor, of Kyneton, claimed
£lO,OOO from Dr. J. H. Downing, the patient
alleging that the doctor so negligently
treated him with X-rays for psoriasis on the
arms that the elbows were burned, the skin
fell away, the flesh discharged freely, and
there was danger at one time of both arms
having to be amputated. The defence rested
its case mainly on the supposition that some
persons are hyper-sensitive to the rays, and
a series of doses that would be normal for
one patient might be excessive for another.
Towards the end of the hearing the case
took what the Judge described as a “very
extraordinary turn,"’ because the jury was
asked to say how far ultra-violet rays, given
by another doctor to cure the condition
caused by the X-rays, had been responsible
for Stout’s subsequent sufferings. Medical
witnesses for both sides were called, one of
them being Chief-Secretary Argyle, himself
an X-ray specialist, and opinions about the
effects of various sorts of treatment were,
as usual, conflicting. The jury found for
Stout and assessed his injury at £5OOO.
“C.Q.”: A motor-car caught Providence
napping in Melbourne the other night. An
elderly woman had her home exactly °PPO-
®jte the . local church. SheAveiu across
the evening service, and was returning aipi
was over, when the vehicle hit and killed
her.
* * * *
“Burglar’s Laborer” : Sydney police col-
lared in a recent sly-grog raid a neat little
“blinder squirt,” made for firing a brown
powder which is a sort of concentrated tear-
gas. The squirt can be held in the palm
and operated by pressing a spring. It is
intended to incapacitate rather than injure,
and belongs to the curious armory of tiny
weapons popularised by the American under-
world, including revolvers no larger than
fountain-pens.
A TREASURE OF A MAN.
“Such a devastating man, my dear! One of those adorable
creatures who can’t take ‘No ’ for an answer.”
“Amooragnir”: How’s this for a military
record? Corp. John Alexander Vyvian
Francis Cosmo McCaslan Colquhoun Whish-
Wilson, of B Company, 12th Batt., was
amongst the Speck’s earliest enlistments, and
was gazetted a corporal in the first batch
of n.c.o’s. He saw service always with the
12th in Egypt, Gallipoli and France, was one
of the last to come home, and was still a
corporal at the close of his five years’ service.
Not improbably his string of names was a
record, too. He was just in front of me when
we were fixing our attestation-papers, and T
still remember the agony of the attesting
M.O. as he desperately struggled to get the
whole budget on the dotted line. “Next!”
he yelled as he dashed the sweat out of his
eyes the better to glare at me; “and if any-
one else weighs in with a name like that
I’ll blanky well resign!”
* * * *
“Avon”: A shivery story comes from
Maoriland concerning the sudden death
aboard the Tofua On March 31 of S. G. Feath
erstone, a journalist. In an article published
some weeks before his death he related
spiritualistic experiences, and said that his
spirit guides had told him he would die on
January 10. He didn’t, the spirits post-
poning the event till February 10. Having
survived that date, Featherstone was advised
to go on a sea journey and did so. The
night before he died he wrote to the editor
of the Waikato Times stating that the
spirits who had twice misled him concern-
ing the date of his demise had frankly
admitted they were having a joke with him,
“but now, at the moment of writing, and
while in fair health, I am in receipt of a
spirit message direct to myself that the time
of my passing is at hand. The message
seems to be of high authority, and I confess
to accepting it with confidence.”
* * * *
“Old Unionist”: The sight of one of
Sydney’s few remaining hansoms lying
wrecked at a street corner and looking as
if it had fallen bodily to pieces, set me reflect-
ing that it was only 20 years ago (May,
1909) that the Wade Government was im-
pressed by the arguments of a deputation
from the Sydney Labor Council, incited
thereto by the Cabmen’s Union, which pro-
tested against taxis being allowed to use the
Railway Station cab-rank. As a result the
taxis were moved on, and it was not till a
couple of years later that the regulations were
amended to permit a limited number of them
to take their places in all cab-ranks. Since
then the taxi tide has almost swept the
cabby out of existence.
$ Jjc *
“Sixenate”: The old Sydney Water Police
Court, which has for so long squatted its
cottage bulk on a valuable corner near Bridge
and Phillip streets, is coming down, stone by
stone. Its disappearance stirs old memories.
At one time the police-court business of Syd-
ney was divided by King-street. South of
this was the jurisdiction of the Central; .be-
fore the present building went up sittings
were held in the old Oddfellows’ Hall in
Elizabeth-street, which now belongs to the
Salv’army. North of King-street was the
Water’s territory, and by a queer survival
inter-State debt matters have continued to
be dealt with at the Water Police Court
right up to the present day. It was the
natural venue when communication was
almost entirely by sea, and it held its place
despite the revolution in travelling effected
by railways.
BLOW, WIND, BLOW!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Blow, Wind, blow!
Don’t you love a windy day
When the tree-tops sough and sway,
When the grey smoke loops and blusters
From the chimney-stacks in clusters,
When the weathercocks revolve
With a vain desire to solve
Whether north or south winds blow,
Or a west wind, chilled with snow,
Lost upon the east wind’s track
In a frenzy hurries back?
Blow, Wind, blow!
Don’t you love the rush and roar
When the wind sweeps past the door
While the casements groan and creak
As their hinges seem to speak,
When the swallows, pair by pair,
Swoop and circle everywhere,
And the jasmine, frayed to foam,
Scatters petals far from home
Down the road where, wild and wide,
Elemental furies ride?
Blow, Wind, blow!
Don’t you love the keen salt air
From the Harbor, whipped and bare,
Where the spray-white beaches cower
And the gum-leaves in a shower
By the boisterous winds are carried
Baffled, buffeted and harried,
Caught between the sky and ground,
Or, just whirling round and round,
Shaken on the troubled grass
Where cloud-shadows race and pass?
Blow, Wind, blow!
Don’t you love the housewife’s skill
Hanging clothes upon the hill
While a flapping runs along
Every line like some strange song,
And the white sheets beat and strain
Then fall limp and wet again,
And the pegs commune together
On the wildness of the weather
As the wind blows higher, higher,
With indifference entire?
N.s.w.
LOLA GORNALL.


mm
•jri
‘i ] :
ft
a
i m
% :
I*
0
: t
: V.
*lllll *llBll*l
main
saw-
' ; i..;' ;iS,|
wmim
: pp'-
*:
ggggiSlfc
8
sglll®
**?
i
If"
& •■ ' '• 1 * * %s|*p Ai’s
1 %
i iiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiß®iiwiiiiS
[ ' " ill
I Hi
K
■
l * vSSsk^#isss*
■i!iiW««iliii|liP
111
*A’
IIBSSI
wMMB
■ill
SsSMgjwi
SPiS
■i
. ■
_ I
in
■ ; ...
WM
a gsgE
;;• ' - aifUBH
\lay
C\ft a I
P
I
Cut
ettes
* i
*
Wm
.
‘imKmmmmlm
i ; 'il .
InH
,11
■H
■
ssss:,/ |§| '£Cp
grfl
■1
■
V.:-
■Hi
mm
■hUNI
-* w
\
pp^
:
■Wm, ■ ie iV. 1 #!
- j
MMI
■ :


A LIFETIME GIFT
t : :
“Fx & R” Canteens of high-grade spoons,
forks and cutlery fill every requirement
of the perfect gift. They are beautifully
presented, of the highest possible quality,
certain of appreciation, and will last a
lifetime.
Illustrated is an attractive Oak Canteen
of “Px & R” quality Spoons and Forks
in Old English Pattern and Rustless-
steel Cutlery.
Price Complete,
£l4
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23-25 Hunter Street.
PLAIN FIGURES. CASH ONLY.
-
yMANGROVITE BELTING
f Utmost Strength
in every Lengthen
LONGER
LASTING
MORE
EFFICIENT
“Mangrovite” Leather or Raw-hide Belting
Every factor that makes for the greatest possible efficiency in power belting is built into
“Mangrovite” Belting. Carefully selected Australian Oxhides are tanned by our exclusive
process that preserves the natural grain of the leather and imparts pliability and
unique gripping power.
Proved on many important installations—it will pay you to investigate the merits of this
excellent Australian power belting.
Consult our expert engineers without obligation.
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD.,
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director,
49 YORK STREET (WYNYARD SQUARE), SYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Queensland Premier McCormack, who is
rather proud of his powers of invective,
told a Rockkamp-
ton deputation the
other day that it
“had a lnde” to
approach him. The
atmosphere of
Rockhampton
seems to lend itself
to that sort of
thing. Once Kid-
s Ton was accused
at a meeting there
of having ratted
from the Labor
party. Wully tried
to explain, but the
crowd howled him
down. He got up
again and, shaking
his fist in the faces
of his constituents
(he was one of the
members for
"Rocky”), shouted,
“Tae heil wi’ ye, ye
ungra-ratefu’
dowgs!” It was
years before he
could speak in pub-
lic without an ac-
accompaniment of
derisive barking.
The new presi-
dent of the Roval
Society of N.S.W.
is Prof. Leo Cot-
ton, successor to
David in the Chair
of Geology at Syd-
ney Uni. and his
coadjutor in many
activities. Son of
Frank Cotton, in-
ventor and Labor enthusiast—the old man
still writes for the Worker —the Professor
started work in the State public service but
wasn’t content to stay there. He is 45,
though he doesn t look it.
Yic. drunks lost a friend at court when
Charles Goldpink passed over. During his
22 years on the bench at the City Court
50,000 occasional and habituals passed
through his benign hands. Goldspink set
the fashion for tolerance to the Christmas
and New Year celebrant, and always claimed
that the quality of his mercy, though it
may have often been strained, was seldom
abused.
Edward Riley, whose scalp is threatened
by the Reds, because he is a director in a
timber yard declared “black” by the strikers,
was a plasterer before he became M.H.R.
for South Sydney in 1910. For a time he
was employees’ representative on the old
Arbitration Court, being appointed in succes-
sion to an absent-minded old gentleman who
started to walk to town one day without
clothing. Riley’s son Ted is M.H.R. for
Cook, and Senator Walter Duncan, who sits
with the Nationalists now, is his son-in-law,
although the daughter Duncan married is
now dead and he has luiten a new life-
partner.
Unlike L. C. Wilson and Geoffrey Hughes,
Cecil McKay, the other member of Bruce’s
Air Inquiry Board, saw no overseas war ser-
vice, but it wasn’t his fault. Under age
when Armageddon started, he left Scotcli
College, Melbourne ; and enlisted as soon as
lie was able. He was in the middle of his
flying course at Point Cook when the Armis-
tice bugles blew. The lad went back to
school, and stroked his college eight in the
same year. Since then he has won his
pilot’s certificate, and flies his own Gypsy
Moth. He is a son of the late Hugh Y.
McKay, founder of the great Sunshine con-
cern.
Michael Myers, K.C., universally known
in Maoriland as “Micky,” was grounded in
law at Wellington in the office of Bell, Gully
and Izard, and so a few years before was
the late Charles Skeriett, whom he succeeds
as C.J. Skerrett got out soon after he was
admitted to the Bar, but Myers stayed on
and became principal of the firm of Bell,
Gully, Bell and Myers. He is only 56, and
looks 36—clean-shaven, dark-eyed, and as
brisk as a bird. No civil case of importance
has been complete without him for the last
20 years; in one recent year he took six
appeals before the Privy Council, and won
the lot. Unlike Stout and Skerrett, Myers
has no known political affiliations. He gets
the job on his record as a lawyer, and there
are very few, at the Bar or on the Bench,
who will dispute his right to it.
Kalgoorlie proposes to erect a memorial—
a drinking-fountain surmounted by the figure
of a prospector—to Paddy Hannan, who dis-
covered gold there in 1893. “Memorials to
prospectors,” says the municipal circular in-
viting subscriptions, “are few, if at all exist-
ent, which is somewhat of a reproach to a
State like Westralia.” The difficulty is that
for every Government reward offered for the
discovery of a new goldfield there were a
dozen claimants, and it wasn’t always the
right man or men who received it. Hannan
had fewer rivals than most, but even in his
case there were one or two. The Government
NORMAN LINDSAY’S STUDIES FOR “THE QUARTERMASTER ”
This is some of the family of "The Quartermaster” as Norman Lindsay has conceived them. The central figure is the Quartermaster
himself, James Hyde, the fine old pioneer who built the house upon “the Rocks” of Sydney nearly ninety years ago On his
right ar e the self-conscious son and heir, Mr. William, and Adela, who came from England to marry him. On the other side are
the esthetic grandson; the daughter Fanny who rebelliously wanted to make a place for herself in the world of business when
such things were not to be thought of; and Maud, the daughter who committed that terrible social sin of the ’forties—ran off
and married the young man she loved. The story is a succession of vivid pictures of the social and business life of Sydney
in the early-Victorian era (1840-60), held together by an interesting but wholesome plot. The first chapters of this great £500
prize novel, abridged for serial use, will be printed on May 22.
gave him first a reward and then a pension;
the municipality, when formed, bestowed on
him a couple of town lots and named the
main street after him.
The Bulletin last week lost three very
old contributors—its “Oldest Inhabitant” (j.
M. For.de), “Two Seas” (H. H. Cripps
Clark) and Fred H. Bathurst. Mr. Clark
was the infant of the group, and he was
hurrying past 70; Mr. Forde was his senior
by nearly quarter of a century. Both these
had been continuous contributors while health
lasted; Mr. Forde’s busy pen did not stop
till he was past 80. Mr. Bathurst ran in
and out of the Argus office, and when he
was out he was a valued Bulletin con-
tributor on money and mining matters. Mr.
Clark was the versatile one of the three,
There was hardly a subject that he could
not tackle interestingly. He had been to
sea : fie had worked in Fleet-street and on
half a dozen Australian newspapers; 35
years ago he was writing dramatic criticisms
for The Bulletin; and he could string a
rhyme on almost anything. But he had spent
most of his long and very busy life on the
land, and he was a great help to The Bulle-
tin’s Farm page in its earlier days.
The chairmanship of the new War Pen-
sions Appeals Board goes to Lt.-Col. A. W.
Ralston, son of A. G. Ralston, N. S. Wales
K.C., and grandson of Justice Windeyer.
Ralston served in New Guinea and Gallipoli,
and was promoted 1 0 the command of the
20th Battalion in France after the famous
capture of those two Stokes guns by the
Germans, who, according to Bean, never
realised the worth of their booty. Brig. Tom
Griffiths, the kindly G.O.C. at Horseferry-
road, and Lt.-Col. E. J. Dibdin, of Brisbane,
are to be the other members of the board.
The arid country in which Keith Ander-
son’s ’plane came down has known several
tragic happenings. In Dec., 1901, drover
Harry Hopkins and his son perished near
Austral Downs. They were not found till
three months afterwards, and around them
lay four dead horses. In Jan., 1902. a mail-
coach disaster occurred between Powell’s
Creek and Anthony’s Lagoon. Stibe, the
driver, seems to have turned off to look for
water. A stockman met him, a passenger
named Hare, a lubra and a blackboy guide,
all on foot, and facing a dry stage of 50
miles. That was the last seen of them alive.
Two months later a search party came upon
the coach, and with it seven dead horses,
about 120 miles from Powell’s Creek and 80
miles off the usual road. Another three
months elapsed before the bodies of the mail-
coach party were discovered.
Hartley Williams, who has lived in Britain
since his retirement from the Yic. Supreme
Court Bench in 1903, is the senior Australian
knight, having been “created” in 1894. He
is 85. Langdon Bonython, of Adelaide
Advertiser, who got his handle in 1898, is
the senior resident knight.
Lord Younger, who died in London last
week, had been the organiser of the Unionist
party for seven years previous to 1923, when
he went to the Lords. He determined, when
the Coalition came, to keep Unionism alive
and ready for a break with Lloyd George im-
mediately the war ended, or as soon there-
after as possible. He fulfilled that part of
his policy, but his methods were the cause,
indirectly, of the uproar about the sale of
honors by the Tories in 1917. Sir Georgs
Younger, as he then was, had frankly traf-
ficked in honors (the sums charged by his
party for baronetcies and peerages were
well known), but as the Liberals had done
likewise, and as Lloyd George was doing it
at the time, the roars of rags from Lib.
papers fell rather flat. Younger, who was
a Scotch brewer, had the reputation of being
the shrewdest chairman that the Unionist
organisation has had.
Irvine, now C.J. and Lieut.-Gov. of Vic.,
refused a Supreme Court judgeship 23 years
ago when sounded by the Bent Government.'
The position then went to Cussen, after
Attorney-General Davies, who was a solici-
tor, had decided not to heed a suggestion by
fellow-Cabincteers that he should take the
wig himself. It was not till 32 years later
that Irvine accepted the C.J.-ship from Law-
son. who interviewed him at the Melbourne
Club. Davies subsequently became Presi-
dent of the Uppish House, was knighted, and
died 10 years ago. Cussen is still going
strong.
The death at Manly of Walter Anderson,
some time M.L.A. for Balmain, recalls his
defeat of the late John Storey in 3904. Bal-
main Labor had sent Storey to Macquarie-
street three years before —he had been a
boilermaker at Mort’s Dock. But John took
Anderson, who was a leading local Salva-
tionist, too cheaply, and had to go back to
his old job. More careful next time, Storey
went on to become State Premier, whereas
Anderson’s defeat was the end of him in
politics.
AH Thursday Island turned out for the
funeral of E. H. Matthews, formerly of the
South Aus. Post and Telegraph Department,
who was on his way back to his Largs Bay
homo, after a six-months’ collecting tour on
the Torres Strait reefs, when the call came.
He had passed his 80th year. In the early
part of his career he was associated with the
construction of the Overland Telegraph to
Darwin. A renowned collector of shells, he
gave several new specimens to the scientific
world, including some varieties of the chiton,
the curious limpet-like creature with armored
back which clings to the sea-stones.
Tom Raine, founder of Raine and Horne,
estate agents, died in Sydney last week
after a long illness. He began as man-
ager of the great Cooper estate, and did
not start his firm till 1883. A small, mer-
curial, smiling man who loved life and his
fellow-men, and was greatly loved in re-
turn, he came of a remarkable family—his
grandfather, Captain Raine, sailed his own
ship from England to Sydney nearly a cen-
tury ago, and the name of this old mariner
is to be found on the N. Queensland map.
Tom Raine belonged to the Australian Club
in Sydney and the Wellington in London,
and was a familiar figure at .both. He
married a sister of A. G, Ralston, R.C.
There will be a remarkable gathering of
the Chosen in Sydney this month ; a congress
of the Zionist Federation commences on May
19, and the Council of Jewish Women fol-
lows. All the States will be represented.
Melbourne will send Rabbis Brodie and
Mestel; another delegate, Miss D. Slatzkin,
is daughter of the wealthy Melbourne Jew
who, living most of his time in Palestine,
owns the “big white house on the hill,” which
was Allenby’s headquarters for a time.
Rabbi Coben, of
Sydney, whose en-
thusiasm for Zion-
ism has never been
marked, holds aloof.
Fred Bathurst,
finance editor of
the Argus, who
died last week,
made at least three
attempts to get his
nose away from the
newspaper grind-
stone. Crossing
from Adelaide he
got a job on the
Argus in F. W.
Haddon’s day, and
then was lured to
Sydney and the
Stock Exchange.
He dropped that
for a while to run
a mining paper, but
presently was pur-
suing commissions
again. And again
the Argus claimed
him—this time on
the mining and
market side. Once
more he craved for
the freedom that
the daily paper re-
fuses and joined
Rutter Clarke as
manager. When he
made the inevitable
flight home it was
as his old paper’s
money editor. He
, . . , spent half his days
helping lame dogs, and died at 72.
\ ictor Hood, who is dead in Sicily, at
66, had a wide experience of Australian
“society’ folk and their ways. A gentle-
mannered little man, he was secretary of the
Queensland Club when it was a sanctuary of
the squattocracy. Governor le Hunte took
him to South Aus., and after that he became
the perfect secretary. Hood served under
Governors in other States. In addition to
being liked for his own qualities he suc-
ceeded in making one or two rather unlike-
able chiefs quite popular—considering.
T. D. Ilaslett, one of the few members of
the Petroleum Institute of Technologists who
have lived in Australia, has come home for
good. Few men have had a wider experience
of foreign oilfields or seen, more of the world.
Haslett has been employed chiefly as a
drilling superintendent by Standard Oil, by
the French Government in Morocco, by a
London oil group in three “Latin” American
republics, and by the Government of India.
He likes the look of the Gippsland oil-pros-
pecting area.
FIVE BOB A DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Hughes said that, within a few hundred yards
of where he was speaking’ in Sydney, he worked
40 years ago for five shillings a day.”
Ilis thoughts strayed back, along the road
Of life, to years ere Fortune came
A-knocking at the door and showed
The avenue to wealth and fame,
lie saw again a youthful frame
Pegging at humble toil "way,
Ilis first and most immediate aim
To prove him worth five bob a day.
Bethink, when Parkes and Dibbs bestrode
This pretty earth, and gave their name
To Governments, and dug and hoed
Their little rows with much the same
Results in eulogy and blame
As their successors’ deeds repay,
The market value Hughes could claim
Was merely two half-crowns a day.
Withal ’tis odds that in him glowed
That flaming youth, or youthful flame,
That makes Pierre Beranger’s ode
A quenchless pleasure to declaim.
Oh for fhe age when every dame
And damoscl held queenly sway!
Most geese were swans, to bet I’m game,
When Billie drew a crown a day.
Hearts up, you youths, whose paths are
strowed
With clods that trip and flints that fray!
Time was when Little Billie toed
The pay-line for a crown a day.
jNT.S.W.
T. THE R.


CARRYING ON.
“In motor accidents last week-end 83 persons were killed and 800 injured in New York State Eight persons were killed and 30 injured in motor accidents reported
in Australia over the week-end. Last year’s total of killed in Victoria was 349, and in N.S. Wales 332.”
KING WAR: “Ah well, if I pass out I leave a worthy successor.”
Poverty
Point
“L. de Rideau”: On Anzac Day this year
all places of amusement in Melbourne were
compulsorily closed. In the days of Hugh
D. Mclntosh, six years ago, they were wide
open, and the Tivoli was wider than any of
them, the management having announced
that all Diggers in uniform or wearing dis-
tinguishing marks would be admitted gratis.
Every Digger in town courteously accepted
the invitation, with the result that the
theatre could not contain them all, let alone
the general public. The damage done totalled
£3OO.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: The legs of Eve Grey,
who is now in the boom in the English pic-
ture business, have to be left out of her
cinema contracts; she has disposed of the
picture rights of them to a Parisian hosiery
manufacturer, who uses them in advertising
all over Europe. Also, although the highly-
priced legs are permitted to carry their
owner on in stage productions, they have to
be omitted from press photographs.
“C. 8.”: The Touch of Silk,” the Austra-
lian play which was hailed as a dramatic
event by The Bulletin last year, will pro-
bably be produced in England. Manchester
Repertorians have been inquiring after it.
Profiting by the production at the Mel-
bourne Playhouse, Betty Davies has re-
written the whole thing, and the last act,
which was always good psychology, is now r
better theatre. Miss Davies is engaged on
a second drama.
“Craiser”: It is unfair to blame Noel
Coward for “This Year of Grace” as it is
being produced in Melbourne. One typically
Cowardian item after another was excised
at rehearsals because of the fear that Yarra-
town’s susceptibilities might be outraged.
The latest thing to go is the cafe scene called
“La Chatte Vierge,” one of the brightest
features. Now, having had its moral sense
accommodated in every way, Melbourne turns
on the producer, and says that it’s a dull
show.
“Garrick”: Whether entertainers gain anv
advantage from adopting stage-names is a
matter for argument, but a remarkable num-
ber do it. Here are a few of our own : Leon
Errol (Simms) ; Murray, the escapologist
(Walters) ; Marie Ney (Fix) ; Albert
Whelan, vaudevillain (Waxman) ; Allan
Priora (Lonergan) ; “Mo,” Roy Rene
(Scluich); and Hector St. Clair (Tompkins).
“Third Usher” : Nellie Bramley, who has
made a Brisbane record by running for over
a year in a theatre by no means of golden
repute as a drawing house, owes her success
almost wholly to that quality of personality
Elinor Glyn has crystallised as It. There is
no particular appeal about Nellie’s plays,
she herself is now matronly compared with
the girl wno made the then-sad Melbourne
t a lace pull, her support is nothing to write
Poverty Point about, yet the ever-jolly
Nellie breezes on nightly in flapper and airy-
tail y parts that deceive no one—and gets
away with it! It must be the infection of
her chuckling laugh and her radiant joy-of-
life.
“C.R.”: There is a story behind the mar-
riage of one of Australia’s leading musicians.
The outbreak of the war found the lady who
is now his wife in London in a theatrical
co. She is a Bulgarian, and when King
Ferdinand took the wrong step she saw intern-
ment in an enemy aliens’ camp looming
ahead. A Scot in another company took pity
on her plight, and offered to remove the
danger by making her his wife. They went
to a registry office* were duly joined and
separated at the door, never to see each other
again. The husband stuck honorably to
his contract, and after the Armistice allowed
his wife to sue for a divorce on the ground
of desertion. The Australian thereupon came
into the picture. He was a demobilised
Digger, earning a precarious subsistence
writing songs in London. The girl had a
charming voice, saw possibilities in the songs,
and offered to go and sing them to the pub-
lishers. Few publishers could withstand so
sweet an argument. The songs began to get
printed, the couple saw daylight ahead, and
in due course there Was a second marriage,
blessed this time by Hymen instead of being
forced by Mars.
“Trebor”: It seems that Brisbane is
doomed to remain the Cinderella of the
capitals as far as theatres are concerned.
With the approaching opening of the new
His Majesty’s, the buying of the old Town
Hall site for the erection of a new St.
James Theatre by Fullers, and the nearing
completion of Hoyt’s new Regent, the poor
old city pricked up her ears. His Majesty’s
opened with a crash and Pavlova. Then all
hopes fop the future of the theatre in Bris-
bane were dashed to the ground by the
announcement that Hoyt’s had leased His
Majesty’s as a talkie house, pending the
finish of th§ Regent in September. A com-
pany at Cremorne has failed, and even Ful-
lers’ project of the St. James seems to be
moribund. So Brisbane philosophically
settles down, the dreams of seeing “The
Desert Song,” “The Vagabond King” and
“Young Woodley” drifting more and more
into the shape of dinkum dreams.
“Hamfat”: Sydney Tivoli has just said
good-bye to two lads who have played in its
orchestra for 35 years—Bob Mills and Bill
Crook. The Tiv. orchestra is to be converted
into a jazz party, with talkies to eke out the
entertainment, and the clarionette and string
bass are no longer required.
“A.G.M.” ■ (Lond.) : Once again Madge
Elliott and Cyril Ritchard get the centre
of the bill on the big pictorial poster which
announces that “Love Lies,” the new musi-
cal play at the Gaiety, is out for an ex-
tended franchise. This time Stanley Lupino
and Laddie Cliff, who head the list in large
type, also get a share of the picture space.
The only faults the critics could find with
Madge Elliott was that her smile is too
enduring, and that they would prefer to see
her oftener on her feet than hoisted on the
shoulders of her athletic partner. Of him
they say that he grows more like Jack
Buchanan every day. When a Garrick Club
flatterer once told Sir Charles Wyndham
that he grew more like Garrick every day,
Wyndham gruffly replied, “And more unlike
him every night.”
“A.”: “Cauboy” is a bit out in stating
(B. 10/4/’29) that Nancy Weir, until she
went to a convent in Victoria, had heard no
music except the “click of glasses and pop
of corks in her father’s hotel at Lockhart.”
Her mother holds a Melbourne Uni. certifi-
cate, through the late Alberto Zelman, also
for piano, and Nancy’s baby ears continually
heard the sounds of good music, for her
father possesses a remarkably good bass
voice which he used in various quartets
around Melbourne. Further, Nancy has
never lived at the hotel.
“Wood’s Green” (Lond.) : The English
theatrical world has lately been elated by
several fine plays, including “The Lady With
the Lamp,” “Journey’s End” and “Rumor.”
Now the French rejoice. Henri Bernstein’s
“Melo,” just produced at the Gymnase,
Paris, is accepted as the best this gifted
playwright has written. Some enthusiasts
have hailed it as the most exquisite dramatic
work of this generation. The story: Marcel
Blanc, celebrated musician, falls in love
with Romaine, wife of Pierre Belcroix, a
brother-musician and friend of student days.
Romaine returns the love of Marcel, who
eventually is obliged to leave her. He comes
back; but, tortured by her passion, she
tries to poison her husband, and then kills
herself. In the last scene Marcel tides to
convince Pierre of his wife’s innocence, and
the curtain descends on the two men playing
the sonata through which the lovers first
revealed their mutual devotion. The play is
very simple in construction; very appealing
in its tragedy. It is set in 11 short scenes
cleverly arranged in curtains and raised sec-
tions up-stage.
“Spokesliave” : After a season in Adelaide
and Perth Gladys Monerieff will sever her
connection with “Rio Rita,” but will re-
appear in a new production in Melbourne
later. In the meantime the Fullers are
searching for a more substantial medium for
her talents.
THE TRAVELLING SHOWS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In stately theatre and hall,
When brilliantly the stage is set
With gorgeous trappings that enthral
The baldhead and the flapperette,
And Thespian magic doth beget
Romance that through my being glo#s,
I feel a stab of fierce regret
For hapless little travelling shows.
While breathless silence holds the crowd
And music’s thrall is on the ear,
Or cheers come generous and loud
For hero brave or heroine dear,
Across my vision comes a queer
Dim blurring as a mem’ry flows;
I cannot see the acting clear
For thoughts of little travelling shows.
I see them when the roads are drear
And drought is on a famished land,
Or rain is falling stark and sheer,
Like sad phantasmagoria stand,
Grim desolation on each hand,
Or wheels bogged axle-deep in mud,
Each broke, brave-hearted little x band
Whom bitter Fate has dealt a thud.
When Life’s Grand Guignol play is o’er
For them, and they have left behind
This spheroid for another shore
Where equity is more refined;
If all the ties of suff’ring bind
In love begot of common woes,
There’s One, I know, that will be kind
To members of the travelling shows.
N.S.W.
HOMERFY BEALE.


•<y
jr
.Hr
rJt
5S
■>c
< /£
I
>*
5®
#r
yr
•-<#■
•<r
f? ,-/
JST -i»*
jEt J,y
J» : " .*«■
’.J-
. • . y \i-'-
\
on
TOP
>w,/, PLUM E
appotenic
Motor Spirit
What cares an appotenic Plume user for ihe long climb ahead?
The steeper and longer the hill the broader he smiles. He laughs,
as, with an all-conquering surge of power, his car “tops” the crest.
Plume, because of its appotenic quality, burns steadily and evenly,
preventing power from petering out during top-gear climbs.
Now, many a smile has faded, many an unwilling hand has
clutched a gear lever, because a motor spirit was unable to
resist the disruptive influences of the extreme heat and high
compression generated in modern engines. When pistons
labour over the trying length of a steep hill, engine
temperatures and pressures increase enormously ....
then is the time when inferior motor spirits, in despera-
tion, “go off” in uncontrolled combustion. Result--
that audible (“ping ping”) or silent petering-out of
power . . . the sad end of all buoyant hopes of “up
and over in top.”
Remember, tens of thousands of motorists are
daily proving that appotenic Plume gives “added
power” —power with a laugh for the hills in it. Fill
up with Plume and prove the appotenic quality
for yourself.
1 :
yr
C oJ^.
""is/
p,
*'c %''■* A °'>?
c or s Po„ «•*/„ •'%„ e <
A e V '*'/// c £ > "/( i "4/c/V
Con^ot
sse,
This FREE booklet “The Con-
noisseur" will tell you everything
worth knowing about Motor Spirit
quality. Any branch of the
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
will gladly post or hand you
your copy on application.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. ltd.
9 PS


ẁ
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD.
Total Assets exceed £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders. (3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sue; assured and no
the Asfjociation and no deduction made from policy or bonuses. deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost evoiy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manatrer.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS *uU COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Desert Song”
Criterion “Pigs”
Royal Pavlova
Paiace “No. 17”
Tivon Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Student Prince”
Royal “This Year of Grace”
New Comedy (com. Saturday) .. “Young Woodley”
King’s (com. Saturday) “Trilby”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
.
After a run, exhaustive in at least two
senses of the word, of very airy-fairy musi-
comedy at Sydney St. James, the Fullers
turned to a trifle more substantial fare at
that house last week-end. The offering was
the George M. Cohan farce-comedy, “The
Baby Cyclone,” which, according to an an-
nouncement in the programme, is a test
case. It is alleged that a prominent Mel-
bourne talking-picture magnate delivered
himself of a prophecy, to wit, that the legi-
timate theatre would be dead within five
years. S’Ben Fuller files a counter prophecy,
in which he asserts in effect that the mag-
nate has spoken balderdash, and that the
talkies will educate thousands of people into
the habit of visiting the theatre, and that,
having. heard the voice that speaketh from
the tin, they will be overwhelmed with a
curiosity and desire to witness the artist in
flesh and blood.
This Showman volunteers as an early wit-
ness. He wishes to say that both learned
gentlemen are talking through their lids. He
saw a talkie show on Friday night, and a
jolly good entertainment it was. He saw
“Baby Cyclone” on Saturday afternoon, and
a jolly good show it was. Also he saw the
Harbor on Sunday morning and thought
it quite a treat. And on Sunday after-
noon he stepped back and looked at his
home-made bookshelf and thought it a
darned fine piece of work. There’s no earthly
reason why the same people shouldn’t enjoy
different things for different reasons. What
the talkies will probably do is to make the
owners of legit, houses tighten up the quality
of their goods. Most of the legit, people
have been looking for trouble for a good
w T hile. They had become as indifferent as-
ADELE QUINN , the “Passion Flower” in the Spanish play of
that name at Sydney Turret.
a heap of pumpkins. This Showman pre-
fers corn on the cob to the tinned variety
every time, always provided, however, that
the cob isn’t full of weevils. He hails with
cheers the signs of belated awakening as in-
dicated by S’Ben and exemplified by a bright
little band of players.
The party is the one which rescued Sydney
Palace after a dismal series of runs, or rather
failures to run, with “The Family Upstairs”
and other broad American domestic comedies.
“Baby Cyclone” is the sort of thing they
do excellently. It is a simple story of femi-
nine affection and masculine antipathy for
lapdogs. Reference to dog is the staple laugh-
producer, and apparently a good one. The
soothing and very comfortable theatre was
crowded at the matinee, and the crowd
gurgled almost continuously from first cur-
tain to last. Compton Coutts, engagingly
funny as a butler; Leona Hogarth and
Evelyn Wade, as the principal dog adorers,
and Eva Dawnay as a lesser one; and Ray-
mond Van Sickle, Leonard Doyle and Wyrley
Birch, representing the male side, all con-
tributed pretty evenly to the gaiety. The
play is neatly produced by Birch; and look-
ing at it all round, s’long as S’Ben does no-
thing worse he oughtn’t to have to take the
hat round for a year or two at least.
* * *
Pavlova continues brilliantly at Sydney
Royal, where her season of “strictly 23
nights” will probably go on and on. The quick
changes of the first week or two apparently
strained the repertoire, for the only new
offering last week was “Autumn Leaves,” a
composition of her own.
It is a delicate and delightful fancy. The
last chrysanthemum of the season is dashed
to the ground by the North Wind and picked
up and cherished by the poet. The North
Wind, returning, whirls the chrysanthemum
from his arms, and the ballet closes with the
death of the flower as the autumn leaves
flutter over her. Pavlova as the chrysanthe-
mum found full scope for her ethereal genius,
and she received understanding support from
Vladimiroff as the poet. Next to Pav., how-
ever, the best of the party was Robert Hit-
chens for his portrayal of the raging winter
wind —dancing full of dash and fury.
* * *
“Pigs,” at Sydney Criterion on Satur-
day night was cheerful throughout. The
comedy, which has already been overhauled
for Sundry Shows from Melbourne, is yet
another American domestic disturbance. Like
all its kind, —and Australia has seen a dozen
or more or them within the past year—its
outstanding feature is an impeccable whole-
someness. It proves, as did “The Patsy,”
“The Family Upstairs” and the rest of the
dozen or so, that there is plenty of the stuff
of good laughter outside the realms of lost
trousers, elevated skirts, twin shoe groups
at bedroom doors and the appetites of sailors
fresh from the sea.
It introduced to the Harbor town an
excellent pair of players, Ruth Nugent and
Alan Bunce. Miss Nugent is strongly remi-
niscent of Homer (Irene) without the Horn-
erican tendency to speak lines with bated
breath. Her study of a girl who is melt-
ing, talkative and
full of common-
sense all at once
is quite on a level
with the Homer’s
Patsy. George
Henry Trader, re-
appearing in the
Smoke after a long
spell away, John
Fernside, a West-
ralian, and Ger-
tru d e Augarde,
making her first
bow in Sydney,
add variously to an
all-round good en-
tertainment; and a
goat, a dog and
sundry pigs, add
color, if not seent.
¥ *
“The Passion
Flower,” Sydney
Turret’s current
offering, is the sort
of play Edgar Wal-
lace would write if
Edgar Wallace
could write. The
plot begins with
much of the who-
killed-Cock - Robin
s u p e r fi c iality
which represents
the height of the
Wallacian ambi-
tion. Happily the
Spaniard, Jacinto
Benavente, is not
content with a
mere answering of
that hoary ques-
tion. He recog-
nises the mysteri-
ous shooting of a
young lover and
the mystery’s solution for what they are
worth; uses them as a fabric upon which
might be woven a pattern of human emotion.
For the motive of the crime lie gets away
from heirlooms, recipes for synthetic gold,
secret diplomatic documents and such com-
monplaces. The crime is committed because
the stepfather of the Passion Flower loves
the girl as she loves him, and the cat is
let out of the bag through the drunken blab-
bing of the actual criminal. The play closes
on a Hamlet note of murder—the stabbing of
the girl’s mother by the exposed stepfather.
It is a stark tragedy of inflamed passions,
with a Spanish farmer-class setting that
introduces brilliant coloring—at least 999
times better as a play than the superficial
trash that passes as drama in Australian
commercial theatres. Played out for all it
is worth it should be very powerful. The
Turreters make it rather incoherent. The
individual acting of almost every member is
excellent, but it is individual. It does not
hold the play together in a piece. When
two, three or four persons are on the stage
they give the impression of acting an experi-
mental excerpt from Benavente. It is like
looking at a series
of related postcards
rather than at a
panoramic strip.
This is not a fault
peculiar to these
actors. It results
from the intimacy
the observer shares
with the players in
all these “theatres
intimate.” Most of
the illusion of a
world created is
lost. You are
standing a foot
away from the oil
painting looking at
the paint when you
ought to be on the
other side of the
room looking at the
picture.
Yet the Tur-
reters are to be
highly commended
for their perform-
ance. Even indi-
vidual acting that
is good is not to be
sneezed at, and be-
sides they are pur-
veying real drama.
But real drama
has gone out of
fashion, in common
with epic verse, if
not all verse, and
all people like the
Turreters must
make their appeal
to a minority. The
translation by John
Garrett Underhill
rather bristles with
cliches, but an in-
vigorating cup of
coffee can be had
in the basement.
Melbourne playgoers never break into a
huzza or a brava unless a musical-comedy
star off duty enters a box or Melba happens
to be amongst the audience; but an acute
ear at the Erica Morini concerts can hear
the gasp or catch in the house’s. breath which
precedes the handclapping and indicates that
the buxom wench from Central Europe has
created that unconscious condition of emo-
tional stress which is the proper tribute to
first-class playing. When these indications
follow the playing of a classic you know you
are in the presence of a master. They fol-
lowed the performance of the Kreutzer sonata
on Saturday night.
*£
Any fear that Perth girl Eilian Crisp
might let the show down at “The Student
Prince” revival at His Majesty’s, Melbourne,
was soon dispelled on Saturday.. Lilian has
displayed talent for serious emotional drama
in various amateur confections, and she
turned to the innocence, girlishness and
vivacity of Kathie with all the ease and
aplomb necessary. In addition she supplied
a voice that was resonant and sometimes
thrilling.
# # *
William Heughan, the Scotch basso with
the dramatic manner and the habit of indulg-
ing in cultured patter between his numbers,
reappeared in Melbourne last week and gave
a generous testimonial to a celebrated cough
cure, as well as several concerts at the
Assembly Hall. His singing of Tschaikow-
sky’s “Pilgrim’s Song” was one of his most
noteworthy performances.
* * ¥
Miss de Vries, the outstanding member
of Melbourne Tivoli’s Sliuron de Vries co.,
is clever and original in an uncanny fashion.
She mixes grace and contortionism in about
equal measure. She can make her arms
look, like snakes, eels and wireless waves.
One of her dances is called a totem dance,
but it ought to be called “The Dying Leu-
cocyte.” It is the sort of thing you expect
to see in a clinic at the end of a micro-
scope.
* * *
Ada Reeve’s return to Sydney Tivoli
showed that if the years have taken a trifle
from her vocal powers, they have been power-
less against the old humor and charm.
Several new songs, notably “What About
You?” are finding high favor, but it is the
old and accustomed successes that are really
taking audiences bv the short hairs.
* * *
Sydney Prince Edward, in its change of
bill last Friday, made it a little more appa-
rent that a thoroughly engaging entertain-
ment can be contrived out of the talkies.
The first half of the programme was a pretty
good vaudeville entertainment provided by
brief, noisy films ; unconsciously an improve-
ment on human vaudeville in that even the
most sensitive onlooker might not be em-
barrassed by turns that go fiat.
Two of the half-dozen or so went decidedly
flat. One, a woman with a wretched voice
singing wretched slush, would, in the flesh,
have made anyone with ap ounce of feeling
Australian mezzo-soprano DOROTHY HELMRICH, singing this
week at Sydney Conservatorium.
squirm with discomfort. Coming out of the
can, it was a thing to be laughed at. That’s
one up to the talkies, anyway. The other flat
effort was Elinor Glyn gushing out a string
of platitudes in laudation of the intelligence
of flappers. She went on from that to talk
about IT, which she alleged she created.
The King of Spain has IT, so has the Prince
of Wales. Valentino had IT, but, dear man,
he lost it, though he got it back again (pro-
longed sigh) just before he died. Also,
tigers have IT. Astute leg-pullers, these
topical talkie makers.
The principal offering was the Paramount
talkie “Interference,’’ an. excellent film in
many ways. It will be examined in Shadow
shows.
* * *
Thousands of pedestrians are walking
undismayed amongst phalanxes of motor-
cars at Melbourne Exhibition Building,
where what is claimed as the third largest
show of petrol transport in the world is
being held. The Exhibition is a huge cara-
vanserai, but it is too small for the num-
bers of humble and luxurious makes that
asked to be crowded in it, so the grounds
have blossomed with marquees, where the
vans, trucks and ’buses ave segregated.
The present writer remembers when he
rode in the first motor-car that came to
Perth. It had one cylinder and a tiller like
a yacht, and it used to have fits, usually at
intersections. It was owned by a doctor with
a love of adventure, and he got all the
adventure he wanted. It would not travel
in reverse, so he had to get out and push
when he wanted to go backwards. One day
a traffic policeman who regarded the vehicle
with the same affection as he would a tiger-
snake made the doctor reverse a whole block
in Hay-street.
Nowadays a car will travel 20,000 miles
with no attention except from a grease-
gun, so motoring is getting monotonous.
Even the grease-gun is becoming obsolete ; a
push on a foot-pedal is all that is necessary
in some of the latest models. That is why,
no doubt, manufacturers are lavishing so
much thought on interiors —equipping them
with vanishing vanity sets, crystal ashtrays,
opal flower vases, radio sets and bookshelves.
Earlier motorists had no energy for listen-
ing-in or reading, though they had adequate
vocabularies to suitably describe almost
every part of a vehicle and its makers.
There are 54 varieties on exhibition, re-
presenting a value of £1,500,000 —19 from
Britain, 28 from U.S.A., three from France,
two from Italy, and one each from Germany
and Belgium. It is disappointing not to find
one Australian mentioned, but it is gratify-
ing to note that most of the bodywork is
local and is growing in beauty and distinc-
tion.


“Pioneer” Means Dependable Power Transmission.
rvs
'it
StIiHED
What are your most difficult belting problems? Are
they heavy, gruelling main drives where the belt must
withstand the constant strain of transmitting hundreds
of horse-power day in and day out, or light, high-
speed drives where extreme accuracy is essential to
minimise vibration and slippage?
Whatever your problems may be you will find
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
absolutely dependable under all conditions of service. Our 70 years of belting
experience are at your disposal in helping to solve your particular problems.
We know working conditions.
J. C. LUDOWICI (Si SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Tanners and Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen’s
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co.,' Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Mclvell & Sons,
Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Fjriar, Richards & Upton,
Auckland.
Patterson & Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
IMonobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
If You Appoint a Friend Your Executor and
Trustee
He may die soon after you, with the resultant heavy expense
to your estate of appointing a new Trustee. If you appoint
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
the question of a new Trustee will never arise.
Write or call for Free Explanatory Booklet.
Nos. 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director: R. COPLAND-LETHBRIDGE.
Manager: H. V. DOUGLASS. 8.43.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of Australasia.
Writ-
Profits. Dividends. ten Off. Reserves.
Oct., £ £ £ £
1918.. 438,745 17 p.c. = 340,000 3,127,055
1919.. 460,768 18 „ „ 360,000 3,227,823
Premiums on new shares, £875,000 4,102,823
Reserves capitalised, £1,000,000 3,102,823
1920.. 573,052 13 p.c. = 455,000 3,220,875
Premiums on new shares, £250,000 3,470,875
1921.. 588,389 13 p.c. = 487,500 25,000 3,546,764
1922.. 620,105 13 „„ 520,000 3,646,869
1923.. 618,559 13 „„ 520,000 3,745,428
1924.. 629,904 13 „„ 520,000 25,000 3.830.332
1925.. 632,555 13 „„ 520,000 50,000 3,892,887
1926.. 652,621 14 „ „ 560,000 40,000 3,945,508
1927. . 654,060 14 „„ 560,000 50,000 3,989,568
Share premiums, £600,000 .. 4,589,568
1928.. 675,192 14 p.c.'«= 595,000 80,000 4,589,760
Half-way through the last term the board
put out 100,000 new £5 shares at the stiff
premium of £6 each. That was proportion-
ately £3 10s. more than was asked for the
last previous issue in 1921. Thus paid capi-
tal advanced to £4,500,000, and the already
corpulent reserves were further fattened with
£600,000 of share premiums, making the pile
£89,760 bigger than the capital at Oct. 15
last. The premium, of course, takes the gilt
off the gingerbread as far as shareholders are
concerned; to the bank it means that 14
p.c. on last year’s new capital is costing only 1
6.3 p.c. Under such circumstances high divi-
dends are not only possible, but, in the
absence of a national catastrophe, inevitable.
The board might well consider whether the
position should not be made to look more
like what it really is.
Actually, the bank is making only moderate
trading profits. On its average visible funds
(capital and reserves combined), last year’s
declared net earnings were equal to no more
than 7.4 p.c. as against 8.2 p.c. in the pre-r
viotts term, and that is a trifle better than is
shown by most other Australian banks. More-
over, earnings are assisted by substantial
inner reserves, though whether those particu-
lar earnings are disclosed or not is in doubt.
In the premises item alone a million
or more is believed to be hidden. This
entry stood in the books at £446,654
40 years ago; it was worked down to £27,540
by 1925, and has since increased to £159,176,
though no less than £245,000 has been visibly
struck off over the last five years. The
amounts so whisked away are shown as
written off in the table.
For many years paid capital stood at the
two-million-pound mark, but during the last
decade, owing partly to the increase of busi-
ness, and partly to the fact that £1 to-day
does only two-thirds of the work of the £1
of a few years ago, £2,500,000 of fresh capi-
tal, which brought with it £1,475,000 of share
premiums, was got in. The next comparison
of Dec. quarterly banking averages shows the
spread of activities, and their growth over
that period in the various States and in
Maoriland:—
, Deposits— v Advances
1919. 1929. 1919. 1929.
N.S.W. . . 5,390,207 8,236,071 6,247,743 10,549,246
Vic. .. 7,400,649 12,276,581 6,304,468 10,588,292
Q’land . . 1,874,819 2,296,881 1,518,205 2,130,612
S. Aus... 959,659 1,420,841 828,307 1,251,929
W.A. . . 672,839 788,720 1,085,035 1,735,973
Tas. .. 860,273 1,256,522 615,183 744,445
ALL. .. 3,339,822 4,841,443 4,079,068 5,358,074
The figures do not take English business into
account. The outstanding feature has been
the expansion of interests in Vic., N. S.
Wales and Maoriland, the growth in deposits
amounting to 89.9 p.c., 65.8 p.c. and 44.9 p.c.
respectively.
What it has cost to manage the steadily-
mounting income and the size of the bites
taken by the taxgatherers are seen in. the
next table:—
Oct., Gross Profits. Expenses. Taxes.
1918. .. £1,020,966 £361,052 £221,168
' 1920 .. 1,302,861 481,756 248.053
1922 .. 1,520,467 532,749 367,613
3923 .. 1,489,870 538,157 333,160
1924 .. 1,478,205 541,389 306.912
1925. .. 1,485,143 564.636 287,952
1926 . . 1,516,376 584,400 279,354
1927 .. 1,572,735 632,563 286,112
1928 . . 1,648,893 647,883 325,818
Of the £55,026 by which the outgo increased
last year, £39,706 was on account of taxa-
tion ; the £325,818 paid out under the latter
head was equal to 7-1 p.c. on capital as it
stood at the close of. accounts. Nor is the
growth in general exes, likely to be. arrested
so long as Federal and State borrowings bloat
the cost of everything. Gross profits, up
£76,158 during the year, are written into
the sheet after provision has been made for
bad and doubtful debts and all other con-'
tingencies. And the fact that shareholders
have never failed to receive an annual div.
for over 80 years makes it plain that the
board has not hitherto undei’estimated the
risks.
Trade movements and banking policy are
reflected in balance-sheet figures:—
Liabilities.
1925. 1927. 1928.
Notes .. .. £437,626 £427,542 £428,622
Bills, etc. . . 3,694,129 4,418,994 3,909,217
Deposits . . 28,708,674 31,478,756 33,876,329
Assets
Liquid assets.. 11,180,726 ' *10,419,682 12,587,894
Advances .. 25,393,633 29,689,660 31,564,314
Bills, etc. .. 4,339,651 4,355,725 3,307,544
Premises .. 79,306 129,792 159,176
The increase in the note issue is on account
of the Maoriland business.
What probably pleases the board more
than anything else is the continued growth
in deposits. How much of the total is fixed
and how much free is not disclosed in the
balance-sheet, but the last quarterly returns
show that about 53 p.c. was interest-bearing.
Advances dropped back to 93.1 p.c. of de-
posits as against 95.2 p.c. at the close of
accounts in 1927. The shrinkage of £509,777
in bills payable is not a bad sign either; it
suggests a falling off in imports, while the
healthy growth in the amount of bills, etc.,
in transit reflects a better volume of exports.
All the new share and premium moneys that
came in during the year, and more, went
into liquids, the aggregate of which amounted
to 6s. 7d. of every £1 owing to the public
at Oct. 15 compared with ss. 9d. and 6s. 2d.
at preceding balances. When the books were
last closed only £4 4s. of the public’s money
was held for every £1 of the bank’s own
funds, and that is a very strong position.
The market, impressed by the bank’s
Strength and the fatness of the visible re-
serves, and probably overlooking the pre-
miums demanded on past issues, heavily dis-
counts the future by paying £l4 12s. 6d.
for the £5 paid shares. The return at that
price is only 4.8 p.c. on a 14 p.c. div. basis.
The exhibited backing amounts to £lO Is. lid.
in net tangibles.
Finney, Isles and Co. (Brisbane).
To
Jan.. Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1918.. 27,126 8 p.c. = 16,888 10,238 43,325
1919.. 29,833 8 „ „ 17,977 11,856 55,181
Transferred to capital, £10,715 .. 44,466
Premiums on new shares.. 1,509 45,975
1920.. 33,098 10 p.c. = 24,001 9,097 55,072
1921.. 29,019 10.,. ~26,562 2,457 57,529
Transferred to capital, £12,500 ) , ,
Tax thereon, £95.. 44,934
Loss.
1922.. 14,173 3 p.c. = 8,060 22,701
Profits.
1923.. 22.302 7 „ „ 20,481 1,821 24,522
1924.. 9,244 34 „ „ 9,660 24,106
1925.. 24,948 8 „ „ 22,080 26,974
1926.. 23,898 8 „ „ 22,079 1,819 28,793
1927.. 20,313 8 „ „ 22,079 27,027
1928.. 8,360 Nil 8,360 35,387
Loss on Maryborough Branch, £12,247.. 23,140
1929.. 10,358 5 p.c. = 13,812 19,686
Actually the net result of the year’s opera-
tions was a loss of £lBB9, brought about by
the closing of the co.’s Maryborough branch,
returns from which had been unsatisfactory
of recent years. When the stock, fittings,
etc., were sold there was a shortage of
£12,247; and the board squared this by
charging £3747 against the year’s net earn-
ings from the rest of the business (£10,358)
and debiting the other £B5OO to the general
reserve account, reducing it to £lB,OOO.
Notwithstanding this, shareholders were
handed £13,812 in a 5 p.c. div.; and so the
already-attenuated reserves were bitten into
for £15,701 in all during the year. On the
face of things, the 5 p.c. was over-liberal,
especially as profits have not been moving
right for some time; in 1925 the net return
on average capital was 9 p.c., followed by
8, 7.3 and then 3 p.c. to the close of accounts
in 1928. Even disregarding the loss on the
Maryborough branch, the ratio was only 3.7
p.c. last year; but caimings had to bear a
heavy charge on account of a legal action
in which the co. was involved. Also, in-
creased unemployment dictated a prudent
policy of restriction in t.-p. business, the chair-
man says. This unsatisfactory industrial
position is also reflected in the closing of
two small country branches. Actually the
year’s turnover showed slight improvement,
nevertheless, so whatever business the co.
may have lost by restricting its long-term
credits was more than got back in the general
run of trade, largely for cash.
In the past much attention has been
given to strengthening the co.’s connections
in the back country; now the declared aim
is to liven counter turnover. In this way it
is hoped to gain a little relief from the press-
ing burden of overhead. The next com-
parison of p. and 1. figures shows the posi-
tion in this respect
Gross Ratio
Profit. Exes. Exes, to Gross.
1924 .. £141,388 132,144 93.5 p.c.
1925 .. 174,251 149,303 85.7 ,
1926 . . 186,031 162,143 87.1 „
1927 .. 179,914 159,601 88.7 ,
1928 .. 167,208 158,848 94.9 „
1929 .. 154,859 144,501 93.3 ~
The closing of country branches—their exist-
ence usually means the double handling of
stocks —and the restriction on the t.-p. side
should help to lighten exes. Taxation takes
about £2OO per week, and is an increasing
burden. But no way of escape is visible
here. Part of the co.’s freehold carries only
one-storeyed shops; and though a new build-
ing might provide a way out, it would call
for more money than the directors care to
ask for. The freehold —in at £131,259, up
£3222 during the year—is already carrying
a mortgage of £38,094, and buyers offer only
14s. 3d. for the pound shares, so the response
to a new share issue would be doubtful.
Thus far the board lias refrained from offer-
ing pref. capital.
The year’s activities show up in balance-
sheet movements
1921. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Capital .. £250,000 £275,993 £275,993 £276,243
Liabilities .. 215,787 202,412 173,032 119,093
Stocks . . 242,847 220,046 191,586 151,316
Freehold .. 138,327 127,935 128,037 131,259
Plant, etc. .. 23,571 27,895 31,529 31,885
Book debts, etc. 111,418 137,849 126,828 100,793
Cash and in-
vestments. . 21,934 5,247 6,431 6,675
The closing of the Maryborough business en-
abled the board to wipe £52,064 off the trade
debt (£41,999) ; also £1875 was snipped off
the mortgage, the debenture debt (£39,000)
remaining unaltered. Incidentally, the reduc-
tion of stocks and book debts should help
in the struggle against overhead. Nothing
is said as to the basis on which stocks have
been taken into the sheet, but the chairman
gives his assurance that assets are conser-
vatively valued, and much depends upon that
and upon the absence of lines that might
stick to the shelves. Including stocks, the
more or less liquid surplus (£139,691) was
£12,122 lighter than, at the previous balance.
The co. should now be in a position to
benefit more from the trade revival
which is expected to follow the improved out-
look in the pastoral, mining and other indus-
tries. But the market, which is ’ not im-
pressed by past performances, prefers to wait
and see. At the current buyers’ price the
return is a whisper under .7 p.c. on a 5 p.c.
div. basis. The backing amounts to 21s. sd.
per share in net tangibles.
Provident Life (M^oriland).
Ordinary and Accident Branch.
Added to Assur-
Ex- Assurance ance
Dec., Income. Claims, penses. Fund. Fund.
£ £ £ £ £
1919.. 28,985 6,238 5,214 17,533 86,131
1920.. 33,688 5,759 6,185 21,744 107,875
1921.. 38,176 6,312 6,857 25,007 132,882
1922.. 42,075 7,296 7,643 27,136 160,018
1923.. 47,899 8,653 8,789 30,457 190,475
1924.. 53,195 11,675 9,233 32,287 222,762
Transferred to Industrial Branch, £3548. . 219,214
1925.. 58.583 11,294 10,380 36,909 266,123
1926.. 65,138 16,549 11,269 37,320 293,443
1927.. 70,031 19,147 12,580 38,304 331,747
1928.. 78,975 27,584 15,692 35,699 367,446
Industrial Branch.
Dividends to
Shareholders
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. (5 p.c.). Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
1919.. 75 200 22,837 35,457 1050 136,341
1920.. 82,062 19,782 37,246 1050 160,325
1921.. 90,512 23,300 39,074 1050 187,413
1922.. 99,103 28,224 40,957 1050 216,285.
1923.. 108,816 36,745 44,264 1050 243,042
(7 p.c.)
1924.. 120,562 39,134 46,676 1470 276,324
Transferred from Ordinary and
Accident, £3548 .. .. 279,872
1925.. 128,044 28,750 51,150 1470 326,546
Written off, £636 .. .. 325,910
1926.. 137.552 35,518 55,004 1470 371,470
1927.. 148,937 33,267 63,511 1470 422,159
1928.. 163,773 45,069 69,320 1470 470,073
This eo. started as an Industrial office in
Dunedin (M.L.) in 1903, when it took over
the 14-year-old business of the Provident
and Industrial Insurance Co. It first gave
its friends an opportunity to purchase Ordi-
nary policies five years later. The growth
of the business has been slow, due mainly
to keen competition and the conservative
policy of the management, but its develop-
ment has been along sound lines, and the
progress has recently become more marked.
The co. gathers about two-thirds of its busi-
ness in the Dominion and the other third
in Australia.
In 1919 the actuary figured the combined
surplus in the two departments at £6017; it
was £30,338 five years later, and had grown to
£67,468 at Dec. 31 last. Moreover, the latter
figure was written after the basis of valua-
tion in the two branches had been further
strengthened- at an extra cost of £31,520.
The surplus in the Ordinary branch was
£42,782, including £241 paid in interim
bonuses. Of this amount £38,504 ( 90 p.c.)
belongs to policy-holders, and provided im-
mediate reversionary bonuses ranging from
10s. p.c. p.a. on pure endowments to 60s. p.c.
on whole-of-life policies. The. latter rate is
exactly double that declared in 1923; and,
given normal conditions, the stricter valua-
tion should mean bigger surpluses in the
future. Shareholders are entitled to the re-
maining £4278, which is equal to an average
of 4 p.c. p.a. on the £21,000 of paid capital
for the five years covered by the valuation.
In the Industrial branch the progress
has been so good that, for the first
time, policy-holders have been given a share
of the profits. >. At Dec. 31 last the surplus
in this department was £24,686 as a gains
a surplus of only £4llO at the previou
valuation. The amount to be split up
amongst policy-holders is £19,749, or 80 p.c.
of the total, and it will provide bonuses at
the rate of 5 p.c. of the sum assured on
policies 5-10 years in force, and advancing
to 15 p.c. on those 20 years or more -m force.
This should help greatly in the struggle tor
new business —incidentally, a branch was
opened at Adelaide last year—and should also
have a favorable influence upon lapses. 4he
other £49.17 belongs to shareholders; thus,
with the dividends already paid, this branch
has provided an average of 11 P-C- P- a * ® n
paid capital over the last five years. In the
table only those divs. actually paid during
the term are included. Since the close of
accounts the rate has been lifted to 10 p.c.
p.a. for the last half of 1928, and a bonus of
2 p.c. was added, making 101 p.c. >f r
year. But the bonus is not to be regarded
as permanent, the chairman says. Still, the
outlook is one of gradually-increasing bene-
fits for both policy-holders and shareholders.
Last year special attention was paid to
the Ordinary branch, the amount of new
business put on the books being £107,868
greater than in the previous term ; and the
average per policy rose to £250 as against
£241 in 1927. But costs were up. Consider
these figures:—
1923. 1926. 1927. 1928.
New Policies. . 1,104 1,062 1,034 1,427
Assuring . . £244,664 £245,609 £249,006 £356,874
First premiums 5,612 5,827 6,050 7,965
Renewal pre-
miums .. 29,191 37,657 38,991 41,342
Assuming that new business is 10 times
more expensive than old, then last year’s
first premiums were gathered at a cost of 95.5
p.c. as against 94.8 p.c. in the previous year.
The ratio of exes, to premium income was
23.1 p.c. as against 20.8 p.c. in the year
before last. Claims also took a heavier toll,
being 85 p.c. of expectation. One result was
that the amount added to funds was £2605
less than in 1927. ,
The £650,734'0f new Industrial business
put on the books during the year was £48,376
better than the 1927 figure, and the average
per policy was £47.6 compared with £46
and £59 in 1927 and 1926. Exes, took 50.3
p.c. of the premium income (£137.763) and
42.3 p.c. of the total income—practically the
same proportions as in the previous year.
But claims called for 27.4 p.c. of the year’s
income as against only 22.3 p.c. in the pre-
vious term.
One of the chief sources of profit , has been
surplus interest. The office assumes that the
funds iu each department will earn only
31 p.c. Actually £5 15s. lid. p.c. was real-
ised in the Ordinary branch last year, and
£5 13s. lOd. in the Industrial, the average
returns over the last five years being £5 17s.
(Ordinary) and £5 13s. 7d. (Industrial).
The suggestion there is that the margin be-
tween the actual and assumed rates has
reached high-water mark, for the present, at
any rate.
Of funds totalling £857,930 at Dec. 31,
including capital, 78 p.c. was represented by
Government and local-body debentures, and
13.6 p.c. was invested in other public securi-
ties. It is claimed that there is an inner
resei’ve of £23,764 in these items and iu
freehold—the latter stands in the books at
£6740.
Daily Telegraph Holding Co.
This is the co. that was formed early in
1928 to take over from the old Daily Tele-
graph Newspaper Co. all its interests in the
Daily Telegraph Pictorial, Ltd. The latter
co., by arrangement with Sun Newspapers,
Ltd., acquired the newspaper assets of the
old Telegraph Co., which received in return
115,557 ords. and 106,668 prefs. in the new
Pictorial Co.
Accounts to Feb. 28 are the first by the
new Holding Co., and, as far as the
working co.’s operations are concerned,
tell nothing. The holding in the Daily
Telegraph Pictorial, Ltd. (the working
co.), appears at £222,225, including a
cash payment 'of Is. per share to the
liquidator of the old co. It consists of
106,668 7 p.c. prefs. and 115,557 ords., as
originally arranged. The Holding Co.’s own
paid capital is £228,232 in 222,225 shares
issued as fully paid to shareholders in the
old Telegraph Co. and £6OOO paid up on
10,000 shares issued to the liquidator of the
old co. for cash to provide working capital.
With the exception of interest earned on
cash deposits (£4583 at Feb. 28), income
will be restricted to dividends received from
the Daily Telegraph Pictorial, Ltd., and since
no divs. were received up to balancing date
—at the time of the reconstruction it was
rumored that any profits that might be made
during the first two years would.be put back
into the business —-income was. more than
offset by administrative charges, and a loss
of £530 was registered. In addition £1525
of preliminary exes, was capitalised. Credi-
tors figure at only £6BB.
Everything now depends upon the pro-
gress made by the Daily Telegraph Pic-
torial, whose circulation is reported on the
increase. What it is costing to win the bigger


THREE OIIFIHDS
ONE INVESTMENT
O,L f/e//,. , F
* »111 ii i j ~Q$ - n
pacific fjr- ocean
ls
:std
P«
)
j j | f 4>
• Matson
,-eP
>f| "*>**>*
# ' s • Bar ran
Gav/eng^
Mangey
Marten berg
t.c' ,ne
A”
MISSIO I •sfn
Wa/muh
-jti
5£
-Mandated Territory-
NEW GUINEA
QUEENSLAND
The Company holds two oil-prospecting areas, i.e. P.P.P.
Nos. 283 and 193, of 10,000 acres each, in the Roma District,
Queensland. Both these areas have been carefully geolo-
gised by Dr. Jensen, and the following brief extracts are
from his report thereon: —
“Both the physiographic and dip evidence point to the
Wallumbilla anticline being a strong structure running
through P.P.P. Nos. 283 and 193 where I have shown it
on my plan approximately; it is a remarkably strong
structure.
“I estimate that the depths to reach the Roma oil-gas
zone beneath the bore sites I have selected are:—P.P.P.
283, 1900 feet; P.P.P. 193, 2400 feet.
“I consider that the structural evidence is strong enough
to warrant sinking on the sites which I have selected
without scout boring.”
NEW GUINEA
The Company holds under license an area of 1000 square
miles on the banks of the Sepik River in the Mandated
Territory of New Guinea. A bore has been sunk on this area to
a depth of 2700 feet, and the following paragraphs have been
extracted from l3r. Jenseivs report on the drilling operations.
“The bore has fully established the petroliferous nature
of the strata, the sufficiency of the thickness of the
sedimentary beds to yield payable oil supplies, and the
close geological relationship in age and nature of strata of
this region with other Miocene oilfields of the east.
“The good structure traversing the area from east to west
is corroborated by the frequent gas blows met with and
the paucity of the water supplies encountered in the bore.
Striking
Testimony
by the
Eminent Oil
Geologist
-Dr. H. I. JENSEN.
WITHOUT OBLIGATION.
We are not asking you to sign
an application (or Shares, but are
offering you, without any obliga-
tion on your part, a free copy
of our Prospectus. We are satis-
fied to leave this to speak for
itself.
Tfov*. Cu% 7 t
To Q<*CLA.cf &/ SVU^JctTS
(J/T*r\, (£t*l &H+A+Zst Co
cU*—*^-
9
oJ 'J\jola>-h. Sc£<xc£ /Cix- olA^<a^-^m
•^Ajn-^i-t>cJZLd • (Qr+tx*
lT*~ . &™jLf C cJ\^
~A d 4
UrK 1 C-/c. #>t£. toxjCiCC, rejtiCtt
'Ufti i ,C~C\ m 't+~- Qsbo ,
~ / cJLC -JjLtL* 'j-cccd* /UUjOUs-cL 'b MuQ-frur»{(r/i*en+
,(JU\Jt— CL. 'diri^LA —' CL*4-Cis Cd~hjS€.C.LiC**<>£ h^My^U 1
-uu\- '~r\.e*ar * **t-o** cc\se—
GLto^x^
"fco ZjLce^bfc c ,
J 4*i cnCJ.j 1
-/t> Qsf C k/fl+X* tot Lf^t^Ce
Ui J Jf'Ut^LX^^
Tear out
and post
this Coupon
To-day!
Date
The Secretary,
Roma Ormildali Associated
Oilfields, Ltd.,
19 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
Sir, —Kindly forward to me a
copy of your interesting and
instructive free Prospectus
without the least obligation
whatsoever on yiy part.
Name
Address
Bulletin, 8/5/’2f>.
ROMA ORMILDAH ASSOCIATED OIL FIELDS LTD.
ROFE CHAMBERS, 19 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.


[PREPARED],
Guaranteed by the manufacturers to
go further, last longer and uniformly
give better results than any other
paint made. —“8.P.”
''KEEPS ON KEEPING ON!”
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
1
mu
D
is
Are Your Inve s
ments ROCKY?
41
MORE THAN HALF
OF ALL REGISTERED
COMPANIES FAIL.
<r
ONLY THE EXPERT
CAN READ THE SIGNS
Australia’s leading ex-
pert is
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
MAY NUMBER NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
The wonderful efficiency of “Pioneer” Wood Pipe
as a conduit for any description of fluid is due to
the manifold advantages it possesses when compared
with metal pipe. It is cheaper, easier and less
expensive to freight, transport and lay. It incurs
practically no maintenance costs, it has great uniform
strength, is practically everlasting and absolutely
non-corrosive. Book of full information free on
request to Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns
Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.;
and at Footseray, Victoria.— Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hasssel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castiereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coluson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Hullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
&
3 O ON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
uV$
DT
■ Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Ascents. 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney
Recognise Your Duty and Appoint a Reliable Executor
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED
(The Pioneer Trustee Company of Australia )
412 Collins Street, Melbourne,
is specially qualified to act as your Executor and Trustee.
T . pvnprience of over 50 years is ample assurance that it will manage your affairs to the best
advantage Unlike an individual the Company is permanent, and its Capital and Assets are
available for the protection of Clients’ interests.
DIRECTORS: Sir John Grice (Chairman), Sir J. H. MacFarland, M.A., LLJ) (\ice-Chairman),
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, Alexander Stewart, J. Fordyee.
Empowered by Special Acts of Parliament to operate in the States
of New South Wales and Victoria.
CHAS. R. SMTBERT. General Manager
V. G. WATSON. Manage'-
sales is not disclosed. The Pictorial Co. regis-
tered-in Dec., 1927, with a nominal capital of
£500,000 in 200,000 prefs. and 275,000 ords.,
all of £1 each, and 50,000 10s. employees’
shares. Of the ords. 130,000 are marked “A”
shares (reserved for Sun Newspapers) and
the 115,557 now held by the Holding Co. are
marked “B” shares. Provision was made
for 10 directors—six to be appointed by the
“A” shareholders, one by a majority of the
“A” and “B” shares combined, and three or
less employees w T ere also to be appointed to
the board. Under this arrangement it is
possible for the Holding Co. to have no
direct representation at all.
The scrip of the Holding Co., which at
one stage dropped to 10s. on the market,
recently made a sharp recovery and now
stands at about 18s. 6d.
Roma Ormildah Associated Oil.
This is a reconstruction of .the Ormildah
Co., formed in Sydney in 1924, to oil-prospect
in New Guinea, where it holds a license
covering 1000 sq. miles in the Sepik Valley.
Lack of funds has made drilling intermit-
tent. The bore put down has, however, estab-
lished the petroliferous nature of the strata,
Dr. Jensen says. To provide a second string
to their bow, the directors exercised an option
over two areas on the Roma (Q.) field.
To raise money for prospecting, the old
co. is transforming itself into one with a
nominal capital of £500,000 in 10s. shares.
Old shareholders take 133,110 paids (two
for each old paid to £1), another 20,000
paids go to the vendors of the Queensland
permits and a round half-million are avail-
able to the public.
Dr. Jensen has selected the boring sites
on the Roma areas. Provision is to be made
to drill to 3000 ft., but they expect to enter
the gas horizon at about 1900 ft.; the cost
is not expected to exceed £15,000. Later
New Guinea may be tackled again. Alto-
gether a £lOO,OOO programme has been
planned.
Though it hasn't been pleasant reading
that American big-show engineers have been
brought to Australia to either handle Isa
or advise about its handling, much good may
result. Australia, after being the head-
quarters of the world’s progress in non-fer-
rous metallurgy for a few years, suddenly
slumped; so young Australian mining men
have been driven from home and during the
past 10 years have done far more work
abroad. ‘Meantime, with adverse metal
markets, prodigious efforts have been made,
especially in America, to lower costs. One
result has been that, w 7 hile Australian cop-
per-mining has shown scarcely a flicker of
life, the U.S.A. has been putting a lot of
good money into circulation. Compared with
1920 the copper-mining profits of the U.S.A.
in 1928 showed an increase of 99 p.c. In
Australia the only copper-mine with which
we tried to do anything at all was Mt. Lyell.
To make matters worse, in Australia we
were brought up to think in small tonnages.
For nearly half a century, when we talked
of mining “we meant gold-mining, and a Ben-
digo gold-mine (hat was crushing 500 tons
a week was doing big things. Broken Hill
improved matters' a little; but even Broken
Hill never worked on a huge scale—it didn’t
have to; it. was rich. So we have gone on
thinking in hundreds, w 7 here the American
has been trained to jump at once to thou-
sands.
Probably this explains w 7 liy Broken Hill
still refuses to believe that Isa can make
anything like the profit it talks about; a
section of the older field doubts whether the
new one can make profits at all. The engi-
neers w 7 ho have come to Isa envisage, how-
ever, a lode 200 ft. wide at one part, capable
of being connected up underground with
smaller but richer claims; and they make
their plans on two. three and up to five
thousand tons a day extraction. The min-
ing plan will, they hope, be something new
to Australia —much cheaper, they think, than
open-cutting, which in fact rarely is very
cheap. They expect to be able to work a
large-scale underground-quarry system with
very little timbering; hence the low costs
that have been talked about.
* * * *
The battle for Broken Hill’s freight has
begun, the S.A. Railway Commissioner
having made sweeping reductions in charges
to bring his rates equal to or slightly lower
than those of N.S.W.. the reductions amount-
ing to as much as 30 p.c. But the people
at the Barrier have not benefited from this
or the keen competition between Sydney and
Adelaide wholesalers (bread is still per
21b. loaf, although flour was sold cheaper
than in Adelaide or Sydney), and are not
likely to because of the mining cos.’ agree-
ment with the unions, which provides for a
quarterly adjustment on the local cost-of-
living figure, and this agreement is the basis
of practically all others between local
employers and employees. t
Because of this provision, Broken Hill
unionists are sublimely indifferent to any
move to lower the cost of living, as their
income would be reduced accordingly. Taking
advantage of this, the traders, as tightly
organised as any of the other unions, have
eliminated competition amongst themselves
and are socking the savings. For the present
Labor is acquiescing in this, because it can
see a fund being created on which it will be
able to draw presently.
So far the mining cos. have consented to
be the milking cow, but the agreement now
provides for termination on three months’
notice, and they might decide to bring the
scheme to an end if trader and unionist do
not give them a fair go.
H= * * *
F. J. Mars, Broken Hill’s consulting elec-
trical engineer, is back from Europe with
specifications for six 3000-h.p. Diesel genera-
tors and four 1200-h.p. air compressors.
These will comprise the central plant from
which all the mines will eventually draw
their power. The lot is expected to cost
£300,000, and will take at least two years
to deliver. Meantime consideration is being
given to the matter of financing the scheme;
the idea most favored is the formation of a
subsidiary trust co.
Sulphide Corp. has one of two 1100-h.p.
Diesel engines on the water, and the foun-
dations have been got ready for it. No one
thinks, however, that the corporation is going
to stand out from the general scheme. Its
need of the engines is urgent; when the big
power-house is ready the Corporation engines
will probably be linked up to it for light
loads and emergency work. The site most
favored for the combined power-house is
adjacent to the Central mine.
* * * *
Lithopone, the material that the Electro-
lytic Zinc Co. is going to manufacture near
Sydney, is being imported into Australia in
increasing quantities. In 1924-25 4000 cwt.
(245. per cwt.) was imported, and in 1926-
27 19,000 cwt. (20s. per cwt). Australia’s
main supplies come from Britain, Germany,
Netherlands and U.S.A. in that order. It is
an intimate mixture of zinc sulphide and
barium sulphate containing 29 peiycent. to
30 per cent, of the former. It produces bril-
liantly white paints with great opacity and
covering power. Its production was greatly
stimulated during the war, when very little
lead was available for white-lead manufac-
ture.
* * * *
On the U.S.A. oilfields remarkable drilling
results have been obtained with the rotary
bit, on the cutting edges of which an ex-
tremely hard alloy is welded. Late in 1928
in California a well was lowered from 652 ft.
to 2723*ft. in 18 hours, using only two of the
special bits, costing £l5 each. Blacker, a
tungsten-carbon alloy with a hardness
approaching that of diamond, was used.
Other alloys in use are stellite* a mixture
of chromium, cobalt and tungsten, and
stoodite. which contains iron, chromium and
manganese. The alloys are welded on using
a carbon electric or acetylene arc.
* * * *
Tantalite, an apparently important dis-
covery of which the “Wild Cat” lately
reported from the Northern Territory, has
been mined spasmodically in the West Arm
district, near Darwin, for some years. The
ore is the chief source of the metal
tantalum, which is being used in increasing
quantities in the manufacture of radio tubes
and alloys. It is extremely resistant to
corrosion. It occurs in granite, pegmatite and
gneissen dykes, usually associated with tin
and wolfram and distributed very irregularly.
There is an assured market for increasing
quantities. Tantalum ore was recently
quoted in U.S.A. at 50s. per unit of tanta-
lum oxide, on a basis of 60 per cent. ore.
Tantalum metal in sheets is worth £lB per
lb., and the powder £9 per lb.
* * * *
The Whitworth F. and M. Corporation,
which used to be Alaska Whitworth, Ltd.,
until a year ago, recently bought the Ivoor-
boora, Gurrumbah and Governor Norman
group of tin mines (N.Q.). The price was
£15,000 cash and £lO,OOO in deferred shares
of Is. each, together with a royalty of Is.
per ton on all ore treated. Work has com-
menced at Irvinebank, where it is expected
to cost about £6OOO to recondition some of
the old workings now full of water. Profits
of £282,000 p.a. were spoken off with tin
at £2OO, London. The metal now stands
around £197, and if the experts are right,
which they often aren’t, the market has not
touched bottom yet. The Corporation’s paid
capital is £350,000 ; it also has interests in
Alaska and Africa.
* * * *
“Diorite”; In the Woods Point-Matlock
district (Vic.) the Loch Fyne is the only
mine now working. The reefs in this local-
ity occur in localised bulges in persistent
diorite dykes. These dykes may traverse
miles of quartzite country, the cylindrical-
shaped bulges occuring at irregular intervals.
The reefs zigzag down the bulge with
alternate dips to the right and left. In
some bulges only the right dipping reefs are
auriferous and in others only the left, and
sometimes every third or fourth on either
dip may carry gold. The reefs are narrow,
flat and difficult to find and develop, and
when mined in a small way it takes about
15cwt. ore to pay. The district suffers badly
from isolation.
* * He *
Claude de Bernales, according to latest
reports, is negotiating with a powerful finan-
cial corporation in London for capital to
further develop the Wiluna goldfield, the
Wilga copper-field and the Pilbara asbestos
deposits. Some of those who have or had
big interest at Kalgoorlie are said to be
associated with him, and the early formation
of one or two big cos. is spoken of.
He He He *
11. E. Vail, manager of Lake View and
Star at Kalgoorlie, has induced A. H. Col-
lier and other London supporters to join
him in taking an 18-months’ option on the
Mararoa Co.’s Emu blocks at Reedy’s, near
Cue (W.A.). They have agreed to spend
up to £25,000 or more in development, equip-
ment, etc. If results are satisfactory it is
proposed to form a new co. with a sug-
gested capital of £300,000 in £1 shares, of
which the Mararoa co. will take 75,000. The
announcement of this deal was expected to
have had a cheering effect on the market,
but the untimely declaration of a sixpenny
call by the Mararoa board spoilt everything.
Hi Hi * *
Kalgoorlie is building on Lake View South
becoming a payable goldmine. In the past
it has been a great disappointment; it was
originally owned by Associated Gold Mines,
Ltd., and afterwards by Lake View' South,
Ltd., which gave up after reconstructing
several times and spending a lot of money.
A local syndicate, headed by Dr. Laver, is
now in possession, and claims to have struck
something good at a few hundred feet below
the surface.
Hi Hi Hi *
Sand Queen-Gladsome Co. (W.A.) hasn’t
had the best of luck during the past half-
year. Income was £4150 less than exes.
At the end of the term sundry creditors
amounted to £8754, but liquids totted up to
only £446. Calls exhausted the issued capi-
tal, and more has had to be raised. Recently
the mine has improved considerably in
appearance, and London is said to be making
inquiries.
* * * *
Up to the end of last week the position
in regard to the sale of Huey Yot mine, in
the F.M.S., to Tin Selection Trust had not
been cleared up. Sydney holders got on to
the cables and asked for particulars from
the co.’s Penang office. The reply was that
the meeting which was to have confirmed
the resolution of sale on April 11 had, on
legal advice, been adjourned to enable Tin
Selection Trust to complete certain business
in London. This was expected to take a
fortnight. The excuse for rushing the matter
through was that the deal was “subject to
prompt acceptance” and was “very advan-
tageous.” Australian shareholders, who got
only two days’ notice of the Penang meet-
ing to authorise the sale, are dissatisfied
both with the terms and the mqnner in
W'hich the matter has been handled.
* * * *
Some Malayan tin dredges return less for
April, owing maybe to the overloaded Lon-
don market and the consequent restriction
of output.
In the Austral-Malay group Kampong s
two dredges got 391 tons of t.o. from 100,000
yards. This is half a ton less than the
March output, but the yardage was much
higher, and the average dropped to .881 b.
from 1.241 b.; costs fell the best part of a
penny per yard. Asam improved on its March
performance, turning in 35 tons of t.o. from
137,000 yards, compared with 18.25 tons
from 107,000 yards. Thus the average
climbed from .381 b. to 591 b.; costs dropped
to 3.5 d a penny better. Ulu Yam’s
36 tons from 123,000 yards bettered the
March output by a ton, but the average con-
tent w r as only .661 b. compared with ,781 b.;
costs were 4.5 d. Thabawleik, wmrking only
half the month, turned over 43,000 yards
for 29 tons, the average, 1.511 b., slightly bet-
tering that for March. Costs, as usual with
this plant, were very high, 19.5 d.
In the Alluvial Tin group Rawang’s sluice
and dredge production dropped from 75 tons
to 70, but the average, .701 b. was only a unit
lower. Combined costs were 5.05 d. Ivun-
dang got 35 tons from 130,000 yards; aver-
age, .601 b.; costs, 6.12 d. The Kampar group
recovered 115 tons, average 431 b., an all
round improvement on March figures; costs
also drppped a fraction, 3.14 d. Changkat,
53 tons as against 60 in March; average in
March .841 b., in April .961 b.; costs 5.6 d.
Larut’s dredges equalled the March recovery
with 85 tons, but the average was 5 points
better than March’s .501 b.; costs, 4.43 d. Jela-
pang fell from 26 tons to 23, due to a smaller
yardage • the average rose to .551 b.; costs,
4.75 d.
Of the Malay Siamese stable, the much-
discussed Huey Yot showed a reversal of
form, which, taken at its face value, may
have influenced the sudden decision of the
Penang shareholders to sell the show. For
the first three months of the year recoveries
dropped steadily. The March figures are
given as 15.2 tons from 80,000 yards; aver-
age, ,421 b. Average for the first quarter,
,781 b. Phin Soon is .still awaiting a glorious
resurrection. Haad Yai continues to show
improvement. This show excelled itself in
April, recovering 33.45 tons from 56,000
yards, a record to date, as was the average
of 1.341 b. Costs were 8.50 d. Nawng Pet, the
sluicing show, started work again after its
annual flood troubles, and put through
26,000 yards for 13.1 tons; average, 1.121 b.,
not exceptional, but well ahead of the .831 b.
for March. The Pet’s costs were 12.92 d., a
good deal higher than the average of late.
For the rest, interest centres chiefly
in Ratrut Basin’s two dredges. No. 1 is
still featuring a low turnover, this month’s
dig amounting to 32,000 yards. Recovery,
14.5 tons; average, I.ollb. No. 2 di*edge,
which only set in recently, has been busy on
overburden, and turned over 11,000 yards for
2.25 tons, giving a satisfactory average under
the circumstances of .461 b. Bundi, with two
dredges in commission, turned over 170,000
yards for 51 tons, averaging .671 b., about
the usual. The co. has for some time been
boring an additional area over which it has
acquired rights, and 8,000,000 yards have
been tested for an estimated 12oz. of 72 p.c.
tin oxide.


A UNIQUE
COMBINATION
\
v\
\1
z
This is the handiest
Workshop Outfit yet
designed.
For the hun-
dred and one
things to be
done about
the home
or farm, .the
“S t e w a r t”
Handy Worker
is ideal.
For mending harness, bending or
cutting pipe, sharpening tools, grind-
ing ploughshares, boring wood or
metal, blacksmith work, and for an endless variety of other jobs
this handy worker is unbeatable.
The set comprises Vyce, Pipe Vyce, Anvil, Drill Dress (two speed), with
Drills, Carborundum Grinding Wheel (three speeds), and Cutting Hardie.
The mechanism that drives the Grinding Wheel can also be used to drive
extra attachments such as BUFFING WHEEL, SCRATCH BRUSH, SMALL
CIRCULAR SAW, etc.
It only requires bolting to a table or bench, and is then ready for use.
Highest-quality materials are used throughout.
Gears, Drills, Pipe Jaws, Hardie, etc., are all cut from Steel and carefully
tempered.
Weight of full outfit boxed for delivery, 1 001 b.
Send no more jobs out to be done. Let this Handy Worker do them, and
it will repay its cost many times in money and time saved.
PRICE, £5/15/-
Many other useful articles are shown in our Free 1929 Catalogue. Get a copy.
McPherson's)
Proprietary Limited w
EST. 1860.
51-65 BATHURST STREET, SYDNEY.
582-592 Collins Street, Melbourne: 116-130 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
MORTDALE
KINGSDALE ESTATE
25 MINUTES FROM ST. JAMES STATION
11- PER DAY
WILL BUY YOU A CHOICE HOME SITE AT
THIS PERFECT HOME SUBURB
Within seven minutes’ easy walking distance of Mortdale Station.
FROM £9O PER LOT
DEVELOPMENT ON EVERY SIDE
On every side there is development and more development. Right from
Penshurst to Mortdale Station there is a mass of homes stretching right
up to the Estate. Evidence of progress and huge development will be seen
from the Council’s figures, which show that in the short period of 1 0 years
the unimproved Capital Value of the District has trebled itself.
TO COUNTRY CLIENTS.
\Y/E realise that there are a number
of people resident in the country
who, while they are desirous of in-
vesting in real estate, are not able
to do so because they cannot inspect
the land for sale just at the time
when an investment such as is pre-
sented by Kingsdale Estate is made
available" To assist these buyers, we
wish to state that, while we insist
on all purchasers inspecting the lots,
in the' case of those resident in the
country we are prepared to offer
special terms, providing for immediate
purchase by them. A clause in the
contract for sale will provide in the
case of these purchasers that if they
are not Satisfied with the lot or lots
purchased upon inspection within two
months from the date of their con-
tract, they will have all moneys re-
funded and the contract cancelled., Re-
member the terms, £lO deposit, the
balance of the purchase money being
paid in 60 monthly instalments,
amounting to 1/- per day. Do not
delay. Fill in the attached coupon,
or write, and we will have pleasure
in forwarding plans and price lists
of Kingsdale Estate, together with
further particulars for the informa-
tion of country purchasers.
Let Us Motor You to Inspect
Agent for the Estate —
A. J. C. MILLS,
72A WILLOUGHBY ROAD,
CROW’S NEST.
F. W. TURTON, Conveyancer to the Estate,
Telephone: X 2916.
MAIL THIS COUPON
TO-DAY.
A. J. C. MILLS, 72a Willoughby Road,
Crow’s Nest.
Please send me, without cost or
obligation, plan and price list of
Kingsdale Estate, Mortdale.
NAME
ADDRESS
The Bank of Australasia
( Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835).
Paid-up Capital £4,500,000
Reserve Fund (used in the business of the Bank) . . . . 4,450,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter. . . . 4,500,000
£13,450,000
NINETY-FIFTH ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
DIRECTORS OF THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
WITH THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR TO 15th OCTOBER, 1928.
PRESENTED TO THE PROPRIETORS AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING,
HELD ON THURSDAY, 21st MARCH, 1929.
REPORT.
The Directors submit to the Proprietors the Balance-sheet as at 1 sth
October last, with the Profit Account for the year to that date. After
providing for rebate on bills current, for British, Australian and New
Zealand rates and taxes, and making provision for bad and doubtful
debts and other contingencies, the net profit for the year amounted to
£675,192/1/4.
To this has to be added £139,567/18/11 brought forward from
the previous year s account, making a total of £Bl 4,760/0/3. From
this £280,000 was paid as an Interim Dividend on sth October last, and
the Directors have now appropriated a further sum of £315,000 to pay
(on the increased capital of £4,500,000) a final Dividend of 7/- per
Share, making, in all, £595,000, equal to 14/- per Share, and
representing for the year a distribution at the rate of 14 per cent., free
of Income-tax. The Directors have also transferred £BO,OOO to Bank
Premises Account. There will remain £139,760/0/3 to be carried
forward to the next account.
The amount of the premium received on the 100,000 new Shares
issued last year, viz., £600,000, has been added to the Reserve Fund.
The Dividend will be payable in London, Australia and New
Zealand on 22 nd March.
The Directors retiring by rotation are: The Rt. Hon. Lord Alden-
ham, Mr. Kenneth Goschen and Mr. Horace Peel, who, being eligible,
offer themselves for re-election.
The Auditors, Messrs. Deloitte, Plender, Griffiths and Co., offer
themselves for re-election.
Since the date of the last Report new Branches have been opened
at Dandenong, Hamilton, Mildura and Nhill, in Victoria; Newcastle West
(Hunter Street), in New South Wales; Gladstone, Murray Bridge and
Nuriodtpa, in South Australia; Carnamah, Dowerin, Kulin and Subiaco
(Perth), in Western Australia; and at Paeroa, in New Zealand. The
Agency at Maitland East, New South Wales, has been converted into a
Branch, and the Branch at Chillagoe, Queensland, has been closed.
T. R. JOHNSON, Chairman.
4 Threadneedle Street, London, 1 Ith March, 1929.
PROFIT ACCOUNT, FROM OCTOBER 11, 1927,
TO OCTOBER 15, 1928.
Balance brought forward from October, 1927 .. £139,567 18 11
Profit for the year to October 15, 1928, after
deducting Rebate on Bills current at Balance date
( £5,434/6/9), and making provision for all bad ana ' ■ _
doubtful debts and for other contingencies. . .. £1,648,892 13 7
Less —
I. Charges of Management—Australasia —Salaries and
allowances to the Staff, including the Superinten-
dent’s Department and 232 Branches and Agencies £495,562 7 10
General Expenses, including rent, repairs, stationery,
travelling, etc. .. .. • • • ■ • • 108,381 5 10
London —Salaries .. •. • • • • • • 33,851 4 2
General Expenses .. .. . • • • • • 10,088 4 4
£647,883 2 2
11. Rates and Taxes —-
Australasia
London
..£190,585 15 2
.. 135,231 14 11
325,817 10 1
Total amount of net profit for the year to October
15, 1928 ..
973,700 12 3
675,192 1 4
From which deduct—
Dividend paid October 5, 1928 .. .. .. ..
Transferred to Dividend Account, payable March 22, 1929
Transferred to Bank Premises ..
£814,760 0 3
£280,000 0 0
315,000 0 0
80,000 0 0
675,000 0 0
Balance carried forward per Balance-sheet
£139.760 0 3
BALANCE-SHEET, OCTOBER, 15, 1928.
LIABILITIES.
Circulation .. .. £428,621 10 0
Deposits 33,870,328 16 8
Bills Payable, and other Lia-
bilities, including provision for
contingencies .. .. •• 3,909,217 5 8
£38,214,167 12 4
Capital • • £4,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund
used in the
business of the
bank) .. 4,450,000 0 0
Dividend, payable
March 22, 1929 315,000 0 0
Profit Account
Balance • 139,760 0 3
9,404,760 0 3
£47,618,927 12 7
ASSETS.
Specie, Bullion, Government
Notes and Cash Balances .. £7,385,811 2 2
Loans at call and at short, notice 120,000 0 0
British Government securities... 3,641,294 19 2
Government securities of Austral-
asia and other investments .. 1,440,788 3 8
Bills receivable and remittances
in transit .. .. .. 3,307,544 2 6
Advances on securities and other
assets 31,564,313 14 6
Bank premises in Australia, New
Zealand and London .. .. 159,175 10 7
£47,618,927 12 7
G. CAMERON, Accountant.
E. GODWARD, Manager.
We have examined the cash and securities in London, and the London hooks and have verified
the transfers from the several branches in the Commonwealth and New Zealand, and we beg
report that, in our opinion, the foregoing is a full and fa.ir balance-sheet of the Bank, and that it
exhibits a true and correct view of the state of the Bank s affairs as shown by the books. The
investments were valued at market price or under.
London, March C, 1929. BELOIT TE, PLENDER, GRIFFITHS & CO., Auditors.


New Enlarged
MERCERY SECTION
A
u
is
■mm
Or
m
i
HH
wm
m
MEN'S
GREY
FLANNEL
TROUSERS,
15/6
No man's wardrobe is quite com-
plete without a pair of Grey
Flannel Trousers. Here is a new
line of All Wool Flannel
Trousers of superior quality and
make that is specially good
value at 15/6
A READY-MADE
NAVY SERGE SUIT
Faultlessly Tailored from
Quality Materials for
84/-
Men! You will appreciate the honest value in
every stitch of these Ready-to-wear Suits. Fault-
lessly tailored from quality materials, they have the
feel as well as the appearance of the custom-made
garment. Styles are smart, with that touch of con-
servativeness that marks the better article. A
perfect fitting assured from the full range of sizes
offering.
MEN’S ALL WOOL WORSTED
READY-MADE SAC SUITS
Another very special line in the newest Autumn
and Winter Shades. Coat is two-button style
with roll lapel collar and the whole Suit is
beautifully finished throughout. All sizes
are available 95/-
Indisputably —
Sydney’s Leading Hat Value
Mick Simmons’ own special line of Pure Fur
Felt Hats. The very smartest shapes and
styles are offered in Oyster, Fawn, Light
Grey and Dark Grey Shades. Represents a
fine example of Australian
hat craftsmanship and the
utmost hat value at ....
18/11
ẃ
FOR THE
MOTOR CYCLIST
LEATHER MOTOR
CYCLE CAPS
Fleece lined, peak in front
which can be worn up or
down, strap button
under chin, ear flaps. 12/6
Better quality, with chamois
and fur lining .... 16/6
THE NEW PULLOVERS AND
COAT SWEATERS
A most extensive range of
the very latest striped and
jacquard patterns.
Silk and Wool Pullovers,
27/-, 30/-
AII Wool Coat
Sweaters,
30/-, 35/-
Plain Coat
Sweaters, All
Wool, very special
value at,
13/6, 16/6
» k
/ u
(Carriage Paid on Mercery.)
©
1C
immons
720 Haymarket, Sydney.
Headquarters:


|(erv|-Ratiorv
th Dog food
Supreme
' 4
A perfectly balanced meat ration; keeps
all breeds of dogs in perfect condition.
Composed of clean, wholesome red meat,
oatmeal, fresh onions and cod liver
oil in exactly the right proportions.
FREE Sample Tin sent on request
without charge.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB
P. O. Box 1821, Melbourne
Ren-L-Ration
STONEWALL
SHOES for MEN
Write, Desk B for Catalogue.
“Stonewall”
Heavy Wear Boot
Bl4Strong Black Hide, Specially
Screwed and Sewn Soles, Wax-stitched,
Reinforced Counter.
16/11
With “Clump” Stonehide
Soles (as illustrated) . . 19/6
Post, 1/6; Interstate, 2/8
JACKSON'S C?
"STONEWALL’ STORES
Cnr Pith 6 Goulburn S u Sydney
Build With
WUNDERLICH
Materials
Guard against faulty work
obtain the highest value by in-
sisting on Wunderlich Building
Materials, which include: —
Art Metal Ceilings, Terra Cotta
Roofing Tiles, Asbestos Cement
(Durabestos) Building Sheets.
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Koolonga”: It happened in the waiting-
room at Melbourne Hospital. He was a,
full-blooded abo., unversed in the ways of
white doctors, and was displaying apprehen-
sion. He turned to a hefty youth sitting on
his left and questioned him about his com-
plaint. “I got crook tonsils and they’re
goin’ to be cut out,” said the youth. The
abo. goggled, then turned to the laborer
on his right. “What you got?” he asked.
“Gotter ’ave me arm off—me wrist’s
poisoned.” came the reply. Binghi made a
bolt for the door. “I got it headache!” he
gasped as he ran.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: Does anyone know what
became of two girls who were brought to
WHAT WIVES CAN DO FOR THEIR HUSBANDS.
“My word, Billy, you are looking well.”
“Yes, the wife’s holiday has done me a world of good!”
Brisbane froih Fraser Island by the ship
Coquette in 1859? They were about 10 and
17 years of age, described as having “low
foreheads, high cheeks, flat noses, small chins,
brown straight hair, and dull, restless eyes,”
and were thought to be white girls who
had been shipwrecked as children and
had fallen into the hands of the blacks.
One theory was that they were from
the ship Sea Belle, which went missing
in 1857. They were smeared with brown
pigment when recovered, and were very
emaciated, but a board of inquiry considered
that they were of white parentage.
$ # * *
“Caractacus”: No newchum of to-day ever
gets from teasing bushmen mates the scare
one I knew received unsought. After hang-
ing about the bush pub for some days he
was ordered off by a fed-up Mr. Public-
house, but instead of going he took refuge
in the pub wash-houSe and made a camp
there. A pub serves all purposes in the Out-
back, and it chanced that a local grazier
who had dropped dead had been accommo-
dated in the outhouse, to await a coroner s
inquiry. As a corpse on the pre-
mises is no good to bar trade,
only a few knew what lay under
the soiled sheet in the laundry.
The coroner, the local squatter-
J.P., was on the spot, but the
post-mortem doctor had to be
brought 60 miles, and there were
no wires or ’phones. It was
night when the doctor arrived,
but he decided to carry on, and
a court was mustered on the
tub-racks and up-turned utensils
of the laundry. The doctor was
very deft and we were all im-
mensely interested. With a
swoop of his scalpel and a
couple of saw-cuts he had re-
moved the whole front of the
thorax like an apron and ex-
posed the viscera. No doubt the
setting was uncanny; the air
of mystery, the dim “hurricane”-
]it outhouse, the ghastly form
on the bench, the awed group
of mixed mankind and the
frightfully-efficient doctor. Mut-
tering “Fatty heart, of course !”
he was about to plunge his hand
into the cavity when a dreadful
howl sent every idler racing
from the place. It was the new-
chum. Bawling “M urder!
There’s ■ murder goin’ on in
there!” he burst out and across the yard,
over the fence and into the mulga—and is
probably still going. Cursing, the Court
mustered again. “Fatty degeneration,” the
doctor resumed; “that do y’, Jock?” “Does
me,” said Sheepshanks, J.P.. and returned
a verdict accordingly. Then we all went
back to our interrupted euchre.
* -I- :!=
“Drover”: An abo. is very useful when
on the road with
cattle, and if he
does the horse-tail-
ing it is almost cer-
tain the prads won’f
get away, but give
him a mate of his
own tribe and
you’re looking for
trouble. We were
coming in from the
Gulf some years
ago with a mob of
hornies, and being
shorthanded we put
on another abo. Up
till then we had no
trouble and our abo.
horse-tailer was the
best ever. But a
change came over
the scene when the
pair worked to-
gether. Horses were
missing every morn-
ing, and the abos.
became cheeky. A
few hidings with
hobble chains and
stockwhips brought
them into line for
a time, but they
knew we were help-
less without them.
The climax came
one night when cir-
cumstances forced
the boss to put the
two abos. on watch
together. The cold
night and warm
fires around the
cattle were too
much for our bing-
his, and they lay
down and slept.
Daylight found the
mob gone. It took us
a week to draft ours
out from the cattle
with which they
had become boxed.
“Beachy Bill” : Having made two or three
finds of ambergris in a lifetime of beach fos-
sicking, I’m asked at least once a month how
the precious stuff can be identified. It looks
very much like pumice-stone or petrified
wood, and the lighter the color the higher the
value. The black sort, which is most plenti-
ful —tons of it are cast up on tlieWest Coast
of Maoriland and the beaches of Stewart
Island every vear—is hardly worth salvaging.
But if you find a lump of stuff the color of
cigar-ash, and with a funny musky tobaccoish
smell, you’ve got something that’s worth nigh
its weight in gold. It is not often found in
IN THE SPRING, ETC., ETC.
BETTY: “What’s a good tale to put over on the missus when you come at her for a rise?"
BILLY: “Tell her—tell her you’re goin’ to get married!”
bulk. The biggest find on Stewart Island
weighed 1251 b. and sold for £l7OO. and the
world’s record haul was stumbled upon by a
party of Norwegians on the southernmost
coast of Maoriland’s South Island some years
ago. It was part of the contents of a dead
whale and tipped the scales at 56cwt. The
Scandies sold it to a French syndicate for
£125,000, and the purchasers have probably
made at least 700 per cent, profit on the
transaction by this time —to market that
quantity of ambergris would take about 20
years.
* * * *
“Olor Delpus”: Jack Smith was selecting
some porkers for market when his neighbor
Dick Black came along with the request
that Jack repair the boundary 1 fence he had
burnt. As the old man was telling Black
to “Get to Hell out o’ this,” the carrier
arrived and asked for the pms. “There
they are,” said Dick. “But don’t take that
one with the ’at on.”
* * * *
“Hamer”: Has anybody known a female
cat that was not disturbed by the crying of
a child? Through countless generations,
pussy, as a domestic pet, has been the play-
thing of human infants, and when a child
cries the family cat will generally jump upon
its cot, and trill to the howler in the hope
of consoling it. Recently in Sydney when a
woman who was carrying a baby was knocked
down by a motor-car, the child, though un-
hurt, was shaken and cried in the arms of a
bystander whilst others attended to the hurt
mother, waiting the arrival of the ambu-
lance. Through the legs of the crowd a black
cat pushed its way, meowing to the feet of
the woman with the child. When the in-
jured woman and her baby were driven away
in the ambulance, the cat attempted to
accompany the still-crying child.
* * * *
“Esau” : Years ago my home was a four-
roomed boundary-rider’s hut on a North-West
sheep and cattle station. The hut was old,
and rested on great adzed sleepers, whose
hollow hearts made safe harborage for mice
and other vermin. One sultry evening I was
rocking my first-born to sleep on the veran-
dah, crooning a lullaby, when a musty smell
smote my nostrils. Still rocking, I began
to wonder why night flies buzzed and droned
around the child, which lay dozing in my
arms. Suddenly my mind grasped the mean-
of the buzzing and the smell. I ceased
rocking, and lifted the babe above my head.
From between my upstretched arms I saw
a huge tiger-snake lying across the boards,
its great head and neck raised between my
open knees, an inch or two from where the
back of the little child had been. It took
a split second for me to throw my legs over
the arm of the chair, and to land on m.v
feet in the open doorway, the child still held
high. Two swift strides and the little one
lay in my wife’s arms as I hissed, “Snake,
be silent!” In another brace of seconds
I had loaded my gun and silently and swiftly
returned. The snake was moving just as
rapidly as I, and its tail disappeared over
the end of the verandah as I fired. That
winter all the mice disappeared, and at
night the hut became as silent as a tomb.
With the spring came young snakes, and it
was not long before I had killed seven in
and about the place. Then came a day when
my wife was attacked by a tiger-snake in
the bedroom, only escaping by jumping on
the bed, where she lay with the babe —•
both paralysed with fear when I carried
them out. That was enough for me. After
sending my wife to her people, I spent my
last night in that hut with the floor torn up.
a lighted lamp on the table, and a loaded
and cocked gun at my side. Beneath me, in
and about the sleepers, tiger-snakes were
slithering and sliding about, but always out
of sight, for instinct told them that death
awaited.
* * * *
“Eureka”: During the last couple of
months I have visited the two extremes; —
the hottest and coldest places in Australia.
At Nimmitabel (N.S.W.) it is so cold that
the words freeze on your lips as you speak;
therefore it is not advisable to tell a lie, as
it can be seen for weeks after. I saw an old
chap sucking a big brown lump of some-
thing that looked like toffee. I thought the
fellow childish until he told me that it was
a pint of beer he was drinking. “Yer
buy yer beer in blocks here,” lie told me.
A week later I went out to a little place
10 miles the other side of Hay and only a
short distance from Hell. There the apples
on the trees are baked before they are pro-
perly ripe. There was a heat-wave in the
district recently, and all the peanuts were
roasted in the ground. The hens lay their
eggs in water and they are collected hard-
boiled.
* * * *
“Up Top” : Much is said of the hardships
the Southern Cross crew had to endure in
the way of mosquitoes. Why on earth they
did not camp on one of the hills surrounding
their landing-ground beats me. They would
not have had to climb high to get rid of the
pest. Skeeters naturally keep to low ground,
and are particularly fond of a mangrove
flat. Any night breeze that is going fans
the hills, and it takes only a very feeble
draught to blow the pests away. TJp north
in the skeeter season no bushman would
dream of camping on a flat if there was
even the smallest ridge within reach, let
alone a hill. I don’t know to what height
a skeeter can rise, but I’ve never met them
in hilly country in N.Q., even when the
flats below were swarming with them. Inci-
dentally, smoke from a mangrove fire is ex-
tremely unpopular with the biters.
(Continued on page 25.)
THE LAST ONE GOES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jim is in there packin’ up;
Jim, the last of all,
Goin’ the way of all the rest—
Heard the city’s call.
Packin’ up an’ whistlin’ tunes,
Singin’ bits o’ songs,
Songs I taught him when a babe
Whippin’ me like thongs.
Seems just like a year ago
Since I gave him milk —
Clingin’ hands an’ kickin’ feet,
Hair as soft as silk.
Not as if he has to leave.
Here are bite an’ sup.
Yet—the world seems sweet to him
In there packin’ up !
Rearin’ them an’ guardin’ them,
Givin’ all you’ve got,
Just to lose them in the end—■
That’s a mother’s lot!
VICTORIA.
P. T. F.


w


The
Clip
ŵ
may be small or large in size, attractive or otherwise
•n quality and condition. That’s not the point. Every
grade of wool and every bale or even bag of it has
its correct market value. And if this action is taken
that full value will be secured.
Send the Wool to
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
Selling Brokers, LTD,
SYDNEY or BRISBANE,
Who secure growers highest possible figures for every
bale or bag they cell.
m
m
m
JHEGREYS
SIZEoTWO
SILKCUT VIRGINIA
DRAP
LONDON
ML JHL 2^
1® for 9d. CIGARETTES 2E® for £/®
They Satisfy
because they are made from 100
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys”
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a “GREYS.”
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights”
are now 1/- for
10 ; 2/- for 20.
PEAPES
clothe men AND their sons.
Men who buy the best for
themselves and for their sons,
find at PEAPES the ideal anti-
cipation of all their needs.
QUALITY. VALUE and SER-
VICE, together with exclusive
style and individual character,
distinguish every article from
PEAPES.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
“Mango”: There are other ways than by
sounding of ascertaining the extent of ocean
deeps. Capt. Ault, of the non-magnetic yacht
Carnegie, uses a 20ft. brass gun, discharging
time-fuse shells under water. The time be-
tween the detonation and the echo from the
sea-bed enables the operator to determine the
depth. In this way a subterranean mountain
range, nearly 10,000 feet high, was discovered
400 miles north of Juan Fernandez Island,
off the west coast of South America. It
is thought that this range may be the rem-
nant of the sunken land from which the
mysterious Easter Island civilisation was
derived.
WHAT ELSE COULD SHE DO WITH IT?
“Mary, Mary! What do you use that filthy pipe for?”
“T’smokin’!”
“Werac”: It is a mistake to think that
a snake with a broken back is done for. On
the Upper Hawkesbury River (N.S.W.)
recently while ploughing I passed over a big
carpet-snake, breaking his back. The snake
scared the _ horses, so I was forced to leave
him wriggling on the ground. Late the same
afternoon I returned with a gun, intending
to put him out of his misery. To my sur-
prise I found that he had taken a half-hitch
with his head and tail round two branches
of a peach-tree, and was stretched out
stiff between them about seven feet above
the ground. He stayed there for eight weeks,
until his backbone had knit, and then de-
parted as good as ever.
'li sfc V
“Long Dog”: Cannot agree that the grey-
hound is the savage and desperate brute
depicted by “Fancier” (B. 13/3/ -9). I
have had a lot to
do with him and
his first cousin the
kangaroo dog, and
have found both
amiable and asi-
nine creatures for
the most part, and
easy to educate in
the matter of let-
ting other animals
alone if they have
been decently
trained when
youn g. On one
Queensland station
I can recall, there
were always two or
three tame kanga-
roos hopping about
the homestead, but
the dogs which
used to run down
their wild fellows
with zest never at-
tempted to inter-
fere with them or
any other station
animals, though
another type look-
ing for a fight
could always get
one if lie persisted.
One thing I will say
about the relations.
They are both the
most infernal and
unabashed thieves
in all the kingdom
of dog, if there is a
leg of mutton or
similar tasty morsel lying unguarded.
V i't Jj?
“450” : Though the moose was introduced
to Southern Maoriland from Canada 20
years ago, the first head secured in the
Dominion is only just now on its way to the
taxidermist. In his native land the moose
is a dweller in heavily-forested mountain
country interspersed with lake and swamp,
and the M.L. south-west coast seemed made
for him. In his native land he feeds on young
spruce-tops and the lilies and other water
plants in the lakes and swamps. Evidently
he has found a menu in Maoriland to suit
him, and this should bring profit to the
country, as the trout and the red deer have
done, for the moose is a beast worth bagging,
even by the mightiest of big-game shots.
$ * * *
“Darken”: Piled myself into the crowd
around the wood-chopping
contests at the Sydney
Show, and saw an axeman
win his heat by the proverb-
ial mile. “Garn,” shouted a
voice, “it’s a wonder a bee
never stung yer!” Didn’t get
the point of this remark, so
inquired of a neighbor.
“ ’Struth,” he said with
obvious scorn, “couldn’t yer
see his log wasn’t sound —-
even if it wasn't hollow
enough for a bee’s nest!”
“The Rumpus”: Frogs,
specially the big green tropi-
cal chaps, are partial to
music. In North Banana-
land when we youngsters
had nothing better on at
night, mouth-organs would
be produced in order to
entertain our cockroach-
catchers. As many as 30
would line the shelves listen-
ing to the concert, and de-
monstrated their gratitude
and interest by intently lis-
tening, heads high, eyes agog,
throats palpitating. One beg-
gar was different, however.
He was always last and de-
liberately walked the length
of the shelf right in front
of the others. Then he’d sit
with his back to the per-
formers. Was it in protest
or could he hear better in
that fashion?,, My brother
put it down to pure rudeness, and one night
rose in wrath and smote the uncouth wretch.
t “Sea Nomad”: Jimmy Mills, a Samoan
giant, was one of the colored men who made
bistory in the early pearl-shelling days of
Torres Strait. He was six feet two, with
a chest like a draught horse and a fine
intelligent head. He imbibed learning from
the pioneer missionaries, then went on deep-
water ships and completed his education as
a bos’n, sailing several times around the
world. When the islands and pearl-shell
claimed him, he had lurid experiences among
the blaekbirders, and afterwards saw a gooj
deal of the “hell-ships.” He finally settled
on Naghir Island, below the needle-like peak
that overlooks both,Strait and Barrier. He
was a born trader, had a command of eight
languages, and knew how to work on the
superstitions of the islanders.
YOUTH AND BEAUTY.
EVE: “And will you love me, dear, when I grow old and ugly?"
ADAM: “Older you may grow, darling; but uglier, never!"
“C. Coral”: A midnight visitation from a
waterspout gave the Waraber islanders in
Torres Strait a half-hour’s excitement re-
cently. They are used to seeing waterspouts
circling round at this time of the year: in
fact, more than one craft has been sunk in
the vicinity through getting in the way of
the ocean willy-willy. This particular one,
however, edged off its course and ran right
on to the island at a spot where it is
only a few hundred yards wide, ripping up
coc'oanut palms and huge wangai-trees in
its wild career, and then threshing its way
through the bush on to the other side and
out to sea again. Strangely enough, it
passed between several houses without
damaging them, though leaving a trail of
broken timber along the track.
* * *
“Facach” : I have shot and trapped many
foxes, but have seldom found vermin on
them. There’s a reason for that. When
vermin annoy a fox he pokes round the pad-
docks and collects a good mouthful of
wool. Then, going to the nearest water, he
wades slowly in. The vermin on his legs
naturally hunt for higher land, and continue
to do so as the fox gets in deeper and
deeper. Finally all are congregated on his
head. This he also immerses, and the vermin
scatter for the only dry spot-—the wool.
The fox then spits' this out and decamps.
“Wingella”: The children of one of the
mission stations in the N.T. have a contempt
for alligators that makes a watcher’s blood
run cold. They bathe daily in a tidal
creek, \yhere a 15-footer lies, and it is their
delight to mimic the bleating of a goat.
The huge saurian sneaks up, eyes just
awash, watched by the children, who, as
soon as he comes near enough, pelt him with
sticks, and yell and scream, and churn the
water into foam, which sends him off in
an agony of fear. As soon as he gets far
enough away they imitate a goat again, and
coax him up almost within reach. A sug-
gestion by a horrified onlooker that the
brute should be shot was met with angry
protests by the kiddies, who would not miss
the fun of teasing the monster for the world.
* * * *
“A.S.B”: The trackers used in the hunt for
the Kelly gang were in charge of Sergeant
(subsequently Inspector) Tom King, of the
Queensland police, who probably knew more
about the business than any other white man
of his day. Amongst the trackers were two
Fraser Island brothers, Paddy and Teddy
Brown. Of the party Teddy Brown alone
is alive and is the last of the full-blooded
Fraser Island natives. Tom King died in
his sleep under what is known as the fig-
tree at Watoomba while on a cattle-hunting
expedition with abo. helpers.
* * *
“Up North”: The Kummunya Presby-
terian Mission at Port George is concerned
over a recent killing. A young gin was
promised by her pa to a buck named Moon-
gallili. The girl rebelled. She had suc-
cumbed to the wiles of a dusky sheik named
I'addy. Moongallili bribed old Ludbi, the
tribal witch-doctor, to point the bone at
I’addy, who pined away and died, as was
intended. Then Samson, kinsman to Paddy,
ambushed and killed the witch-doctor. Then,
of course, Samson and his dad were speared
through the leg by Ludbi’s kinsmen, which,
according to abo. reckoning, satisfied all
the requirements of honor. But these be
days of white law, and Ludbi’s kinsmen
stand in more peril than they wot of.
* * * *
“Kooragai” : The bed of a small lake near
Milparinka (N.S.W.), where drought still
prevails, is rimmed with the carcases of over
200 bogged kangaroos, with here and there
an emu or two —a modern illustration of
what happened to the giants of long ago.
Not very far west of that place are the
basins of once-great lakes or inland seas,
where lie buried the bones of countless mam-
moths. The vast cemetery has only been
lightly prospected, but many of the huge
ancients that have been discovered and given
tongue-tying names were in the last scramble
there for the vanishing water. They in-
cluded the marsupial lion and other terrors
that made Binghi more wary than was
necessary after the holocaust.
# sic * *
“B-Gar”: The cruelty of Afghan camel
teamsters in sewing pieces of greenhide on
their camels’ backs to take the place of skin
and hair lifted off when the packs are
removed is matched by the ill-treatment
of their horses by some of the Italian
cane-farmers in N. Queensland. Sore-backed
horses are ridden without question, and
great scars along the animals’ ribs indicate
where they have received a hammering.
I’ve seen Italians attempting to pull out
trucks of wood that a traction-engine would
be hard pressed to move with only half a
dozen horses hitched up. Each horse in the
team received a belting with a sapling in
turn —the brute in charge was impartial at
any rate.
* * * *
“Eureka”: “Blime, the soil is poor down
on my place,” said old Tom. “When I sow
peas or beans I have to put three seeds in
each hole—one to sprout, one to push, and
one to come up—and then it’s ten to one
that the one that comes up will be nipped
off by a worm.”
* * * *
“Mulyan”: I have been on cattle-runs
where every stockman, including the boss,
wore some kind of hat decoration, which
varied from furred skins and snake skin to
hide bands. Some wore their neckties round
their hats and a chin strap under the nose.
Binghi liked a folded multicolored silk hand-
kerchief, a modified form of the turban that
was worn by old-time squatters. A favoiite
with many stockmen was the trailing light-
green moss that grows on ironbark trees.
THE SURPRISE PACKET.
TOM: “I stuck a button down Mr. Jones’s
chocolate machine yesterday , an’ guess
what came out?”
JOE: “I give up.”
TOM: “Mr. Jones!”
It is light and dry, and, grows in streamers
to several yards in length. The men tore
it’ off as they rode past, and wound it round
and round their hats. Another embellishment
was the interwoven strap. Slits were cut
all round a felt hat, about an inch apart,
and through these a thin strap was threaded.
That was usually the way a, boundary-rider
infused new life into his old roof.
SINGING GOLD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It was gold, singing gold, where the Turon
River rolled.
O the spoil dumps where the bearded
diggers sank!
There were twenty thousand men strung
along the Ophir then,
By the cradle and the sluice-box on the
bank.
It was gold, singing gold, by the mountains
fold on fold.
O the shadows where the Happy Valley
lay!
But where Araluen stands are no longer
golden sands,
And the diggers and the dredgers passed
away.
It was gold, singing gold, by Kiandra bleak
and cold.
O the sluicing and the reefing in the
snow!
And the specking in the rain that will never
come again,
And the hauling with the windlass from
below.
It was gold, singing gold, in the gorges blind
and bold.
O the thunder of three hundred roaring
head
As the stamps were on the ore! But we’ll
never hear it more,
And in Hillgrove reigns the silence of the
dead.
It was gold, singing gold, in the roaring days
of old.
O the many fields that crowd into my
thoughts!
And the wash-dirt free and loose and the
banjo and the sluice,
And the deep lead and the terrace and
the quartz.
It was gold, singing gold, and ’twas ever hard
to hold.
O the hidden hills and little lonely graves
That are scattered out afar by the outcrop
and the bar
And the valley where the sighing she-
oak waves!
N.S.W.
E.W. O’BRIEN.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bullb:tin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Key to Duffy’s collection of photos of Fiji
colonists, numbered to 888, issued 1886. —6
To buy Beethoven’s Sonatas (bound vol.
complete) and Cassell’s French Dictionary.
—1)924.
To buy typewriter, second-hand. —13.
To buy full-size billiard-table, second-hand
(N.5.W.).—9964.
To exchange for works by Malinowski,
Westermarck and Albert Loudres, quantity of
modern novels.—26.
To exchange “Historians’ History of the
World,” 24 vols. and index, cost £l3, for
something equal value. —9988.
Young lady (Q.) seeks position as book-
keeper with butcher; over 10 years present
position.—9977.
Partners to finance stocking of islands
off Q’land coast with wallabies, ’possums
and pigs.—9891.
Young man (N.Q.) wants to corres-
pond with residents Pacific Islands.—24.
Repat. pensioner, Sydney, wants any sort
clerical work, day or night, 8 or 10 hours
weekly.—2s.
Free-lance journalist wants position coun-
try newspaper, eight years’ experience N.Q.,
Brisbane. —10.
Two trappers, Sydney, require good rab-
bit country, go anywhere N.S.W. —19.
Young lady (20) wants postition as com-
panion, N.S.W. or Southern Q’land ; can do
secretarial work —21.
Young farmer (Victoria) wishes to cor-
respond with readers, other sex, used to
country life. —18.
Australian girl (20), living U.S A., would
like to correspond with readers Pacific
Islands, Malaya, New Guinea or Far East.
—9962.
An erudite, elderly man would like corres-
pondence.—9944.
Qualified teacher (28), Sydney, desires
position as governess, secretary, companion
or shop assistant, stationer’s or bookseller’s.
—9932.
By Victorian lady, formerly State school-
teacher, secretarial or publicity work, or
as librarian, Melbourne or Sydney.—
Trustworthy married couple desire posi-
tion of trust, N.S.W. —9966.
Young professional man, Q., requiring
finance to complete experiments with an in-
vention, would like to meet somebody will-
ing to take sporting risk. —9969.
Nurse (24) would like to correspond with
readers interested in journalism, aviation,
medical science.—9972.
Dressmaker (refs.) would like work, one to
three weeks, stations or farms, Vic. or N.S.W.
border. —9927.
Partner with £250, to take four-fifths
share in poultry farm, North Coast line,
Queensland. —9961.
By Sydney resident, small supply of
prickly-pear for medicinal purposes.—999B.
Whereabouts of Patrick Keaney, last heard
of in Nadaly (Vic.). (To John L. O’Toole,
P. 0., Harvey, W.A.)
Whereabouts of Frank G. March, last
heard of at Corrella station, via Bourke.
(To G. Washington, Warraweena station,
near Bourke, N.S.W.)
Young riian (22), Vic., has passed matric.
and Public Service exam., been grocer’s
assistant and book-keeper, can drive car,
wants job.—7.
Company wants good miner for Papua,
competent timber man preferred, for square
sets, bush timber.—2.
Young lady (19), good standing, Sydney,
only child, lonely, wishes to meet companion,
either sex, pictures, theatres, each pay own
expenses.—9B73.
Words of verse “Dill of the Creek.” (To
M. Partridge, Saddleworth, S.A.)
Whereabouts of H. McKelvie, last heard
of at Babinda (Q.). —9940.
Whereabouts of Thomas Fair (about 80),
who left England (1913) and had fruit farm
at Tongala (Vic.). (To Jas. Roper, 31
Francis-road, Edgbaston, Birmingham, Eng.)
Information Sought.
I have paid-up shares in Amalgamated
Kawarau (1) Any value? (2) How can I
dispose of them? —9803.
(1) The co. has run out of money and
stopped work. Some months ago shares
were sold at 3d. The man who bought
them was an optimist. (2) Sorry, don’t
know.
(1) Would a lad from one of our Great
Public Schools have any chance of getting
into the Royal Navy as an officer? (2)
Would a naval officer be well advised, to join
the Fleet Air arm? (3) Is that arm over-
crowded? —9683.
(1) He would be eligible. One candidate
from Wesley College, Melbourne, was suc-
cessful in gaining entry last year. A sum-
mary of the regulations for the special entry
of naval cadets to the R.N. is obtainable
from the Navy Office, Dept, of Defence, Mel-
bourne. (2) It would depend upon his
aptitude for that branch of the service.
(3) No.
Method of joining broken xylonite ? —
9896.
Chemists use absolute alcohol, but acetate
of amyl is more satisfactory in the case of
amateurs. Cut up three or four used photo-
graphic negatives (or some other waste cellu-
loid) and place in a bottle containing Boz.
of amyl; they will readily dissolve. This
jellies the solution, which is then ready for
use. Scrape broken edges clean and apply
a moderate quantity of solution with a knit-
ting needle ; then press edges and bind article
firmly until solution sets. All actions should
be as quick as possible ; the solution is vola-
tile.
How are electric-light' meters read ? —
9841.
The unit of measure is the KWH (kilo-
watt hour), and on the ordinary household
meter there are five white dials and one
black one. The white dials register respec-
tively 10,000, 1000, 100, 10, and single
units, and should be read in that order, the
readings being totalled. The black dial,
which has a red pointer, need not be taken
into account. The amount of current con-
sumed in any period can be ascertained by
taking readings at the beginning and end
of the’ period and deducting the result of the
first reading from that of the second.
(1) Population of the Northern Territory J
(2) Second-class steamship fares to Darwin
from (a) Eastern Aust. ports; (b) Fre-
mantle ? (3) Rates of pay for unskilled
icorkers in N.T.? (4) Prospects of securing
a joh there f —9765.
(1) At June 30, apart from abos. and half-
castes, 3714: 2645 were Europeans and the
remainder Asiatics. (2) (a) Prom Mel-
bourne, Sydney or Brisbane by Burns, Philp
steamers, £l6 155.; (6) by State steamers,
£l4 12s. 6d. (3) Depends upon the exact
nature of the work. (4) Poor. It would
be most inadvisable to go without first obtain-
ing a definite offer.
(1) Title of work dealing with Australian
weather? (2) Explanation of isobars and
the part they play in weather charts? —
9792.
(1) “Australian Meteorology,” by Griffith
Taylor. (2) An isobar is a line drawn
through places which have equal barometric
pressure. All stations shown on the weather
chart furnish, among other things, wind
direction and barometer reading at 9 a.m.,
the latter being corrected to mean sea-level
to bring it to the common base. When these
are plotted on the chart, places with a baro-
meter reading of 30.00 inches are joined by a
line called the isobar, and the same is done
wdth those where the reading is 30.1, 30.2,
30.3, etc., and 29.9, 29.8 and 29.7 inches, etc.
The chart is thus covered with concentric
lines, similar to a contour map, with the
greatest readings in the centre of one group
and the lowest in the centre of another.
The former is called a “high” or high-
pressure system ; the latter a “low” or low-
pressure system. It will be seen now that
the winds have conformed to the isobars,
those about the “high” pointing in an anti-
clockwise direction around the centre and
conversely in regard to the “low.” This is
in obedience to a law of nature, the respec-
tive directions being the opposite in the
Northern Hemisphere.
(1) Could I learn to become an oil geolo-
gist by correspondence? (2) What subjects
are essential in this connection? —9301.
(1) We think not; if you have no facili-
ties for obtaining laboratory practice and
field instruction, better drop the idea. (2)
Structural geology, palaeontology and strati-
graphy. It would also be necessary to know
something of physics, chemistry, mineralogy,
mathematics and surveying, and to have had
a sound secondary-school education.
(1) In buying an A iredale terrier what
points should be observed? (2) Are these
dogs suitable if children arc in the house?
9743.
(1) Large head, square muzzle, dark eyes
and powerful jaws; front legs straight, with
plenty of bone; ribs well sprung, with ample
space for lungs; coat harsh and short; feet
small and well bunched together; tail should
be carried well. Weight, 401 b. to 451 b. ;
height, 21in. to 22in. Color: head and legs,
tan; ears, dark tan; body, darker tan. (2)
Yes, though as youngsters they are inclined
to be rough in their play
(1) A young laborer, N.S.W., scants to
become a school-teacher. Hose is he to go
about it? (2) How long to qualify? (3)
Any financial assistance given during the
qualifying period? (4) Subjects required for
a pass? (5) Salaries, lowest and highest? —
9714.
(1) Prospective teachers must first pass
through the Teachers’ Training College.
Admission is competitive and governed by
attainments. (2) From one to four years.
(3) Fifty pounds a year. (4) English, dic-
tation, arithmetic, history, geography,
algebra, geometry, drawing. (5) Commencing
salary, £228 p.a.; he might rise to £770 p.a.
How to make layer beer in the home? —
9600.
It can’t be done without a large and ex-
pensive outfit. The beer must be made at a
temperature not exceeding 38deg. Falir., and
stored for a long period at freezing-point.-
The introduction and retention of certain
chemical effervescing agents are also neces-
sary.
(1) Where in N.S.W. can J get informa-
tion re hydro-electric works? (2) What will
be the capacity in acre-feet of the Hume re-
servoir when completed? (3) Capacity of
Burrinjuck in acre-feet?— 9s22.
(1) Public Works Dept., Box 44a, G.P.0.,
Sydney; (2 ) 2,000,000 acre-feet; (3)
771,641 acre-feet.
(1) Any chance of earning a living at
small-boat fishing in Sydney waters? (2)
Would £2OO be enough, provided a partner
could be found with a boat or with the same
amount of money? —977l.
(1) A fair chance, given experience of
net and line fishing. (2) Yes, provided both
have had experience.
(1) A recipe for making yeast, as used by
bakers. (2) Do they include any acids for
extra rising? (3) What quantity of yeast
goes to Blb. of flour? —9708.
(1) Boil gently 1 handful of hops for 2
hours in 9 pints water, adding boiling water
to keep up the quantity. Stand till luke-
warm, add lib. sugar and 1 handful flour;
stir well, bottle and tie the corks down.
Ready to use in three days; will keep three
months in cool, dry place. (2) Not usually.
(3) About a breakfast-cup full.
(1) How to cure a dog suffering from St.
Vitus’s dance? (2) Would the dog be suit-
able for breeding purposes? —9B4s.
(1) An examination is necessary. If you
can’t get a vet., give 5-grain tabloid of East-
on’s syrup twice daily for a week. Second
week, stop Easton’s tabloids and give one
small teaspoonful of chemical food in a little
water twice daily. Recommence alternate
treatment if improvement observed. (2) No ;
nor would a bitch so affected.
What is the highest hand in straightout
bluff poker? Will 2,3, 4,5, 6 of any one
suit heat four aces? —993s.
A straight flush from the ace down, which
beats all lower straight flushes and fours
of any sort. There is an exception if the
American practice of playing with the joker
“wild” is followed. The joker added to the
pack can be used to increase the value of
the hand. Thus if one has four deuces or
higher in hand and the joker, the hand will
be five of a kind, and this is better than a
straight flush.
The State debts and interest bills at year
ended June 30, 1928?—'9767.
N.S.W., £258,474,898 (debt) and
£12,914,412 (interest) ; Vic., £157,283,470
and £7,701,670; Q’land, £112,208,970 and
£5,395,032; S.A. (excluding debt on account
of Northern Territory and Port Augusta-
Oodnadatta railway), £92,223,165 and
£4,637,639; W.A., £77,172,906 and
£3,506,043; Tas., £24,826,560 and £1,214,665.
(1) What does it cost to patent an inven-
tion in Australia? (2) Would taking out a
patent here protect me in all other coun-
tries? (3) Is there any Inventions Board to
which I could submit my idea without put-
ting it through the Patents Office? (4)
Would the Industrial Research Council help
me ? —9777.
(1) One pound on application, £2 on
acceptance of complete specification and £5
for preparation of letters patent for sealing.
Forms from Dept, of Patents, 581 Bourke-
street, Melbourne. (2) No. (3) Know of
none such, but any reputable patents attor-
ney would help. (4) Cannot say; inquire
from secretary, 314 Albert-street, East Mel-
bourne.
A man with Australian agricultural experi-
ence and no capital aspires to become a
planter in New Guinea. What prospects?
—9945.
Not worth talking about. Even men with
local experience are having a gruelling time.
My dog—an Australian terrier, 10 years
old—has little patches of black skin, like
warts, which grow to big black lumps. He
then eats them off. The lumps are only on
his body and are very fleshy. Cure? —9949.
These fleshy or blood tumors are fairly
common in old dogs, particularly terriers and
pugs. A tumor with a neck can be easily
eliminated by tying a ligature round the
neck ; the tumor will fall off in a few days.
Surgical scissors may be used for their re-
moval, but it may be advisable to ligature
prior to operating. After removal paint with
a little tincture of iodine.
(1) Numbei' of rabbit-skins exported from
N.Z., period of five years? (2) Estimated
value? —9992.
(1) 1923-24, 17,591,240 skins; ’24-25,
20,163,368; ’25-26, 18,371,251; ’26-27,
15,752,173; ’27-28, 12,333,438. (2) ’23-24,
£578,026 ; ’24-25, £781.617 ; ’25-26, £802,512 ;
’26-27, £810,428 ; ’27-28, £633,090.
How to remove rust from the under parts
of a car, and a durable preparation to paint
over? —9739.
All rust should be taken off with kerosene
and emery paper, any grease being removed
with petrol. Wipe clean, and when thoroughly
dry finish with any good chassis black.
What do nautical people mean by: (1)
Registered tonnage; (2) displacement ton-
nage; (3) gross tonnage; (4) net tonnage?
—9803.
(1) and (4) Registered (or net) tonnage
is computed by calculating the internal capa-
city of the vessel, allowing 100 cubic feet to
the ton, and deducting all space not devoted
to the carriage of cargo or/and passengers.
(2) The weight of water displaced by tiff; ship
—otherwise the entire weight of the vessel.
(3) Same as (1), but with no deductions.
(1) Would it be possible for a layman,
aged 35, to become a solicitor in Queens-
land? (2) Would one need any special edu-
cation? (3) Where to apply for particulars
as to study, etc.? (4) Could one study at
home? Estimate of cost, etc.? —999l.
(1) Yes.* (2) Yes; both literary and
legal. (3) Try Under-Secretary, Department
of Justice, Brisbane. (4) Home study alone
would not suffice ; cost depends on circum-
stances —no fixed sum.
Recipe for making extract of beef? —9899.
Take lib. beefsteak without fat, 1 teaspoon
salt, 1 teaspoon pepper, 1 grated nutmeg, 1
teaspoon ground mace, 1| teaspoon essence
anchovy, 1 dessert-spoon butter. Place steak,
salt, pepper and butter in a jar with a lid,
and boil for 3 hours in a saucepan of water.
Run the meat through a mincer, and pound
in a basin with the spices. Pack into steri-
lised jars, seal with melted butter or drip-
ping, cover and store in a cool, dark place.
.4 bridge constructed by the shire council,
which gave access to my property, and my
property only, was destroyed by fire towards
the end of last year. The bridge was my
sole means of access, and the council has
been asked to replace same. Will you please
tell me (1) Is the council legally bound to
provide me with access? (2) In the event of
a, refusal to provide me with access, am- I
legally justified in refusing to pay rates? (3)
Would it be lawful for me to provide access,
and recover cost of same from the council?
(4) On the assumption that the council’s
reply is the usual “no funds available,” what
redress have I? —9589.
(1. 2 and 3) No. (4) Section 178 a of
the N.S.W. Local Government Act, 1919,
provides that a council may accept an
advance not exceeding £5OO from a rate-
payer for the purpose of carrying out neces-
sary works applied for by the ratepayer,
that the advance shall be either free of
interest or at a rate not exceeding 4 per
cent, p.a., and that the terms of the advance
shall include provision for repayment by
yearly or half-yearly instalments spread over
not more than 10 years.
Brief Answers.
Speculator: Doubt if it is worth pursuing;
if you think it is, your first step will be to pay
up the back calls M.K.: Depends entirely on what
the promoter does —the duties, obligations, etc., aie
not defined... .F.C.: Lendrum, Ltd., Winchcombe
House, Bridge-street, Sydney... .W.M.Q.: Esdaile and
Sons, 42 Hunter-street, Sydney... .H. 8.: The mateiial
is unsuitable for waterproofing and treatment is
hopeless. A reliable waterproof oilskin dressing may
be got from city paint-shops, ready to use; several
coats of boiled linseed oil would also be useful....
A.S.: It is illegal to buy tobacco-leaf unless you are
a registered dealer, nor can you manufacture am
quantity without a license... .E.M.F.: The N.S.W.
Education Department provides pens, pencils, writing
books, etc., in primary schools. All necessary text-
books are supplied to pupils in secondary and super-
primary schools... .P.N.: Turnley and Son, 266
Flinders-street; Noble and Daniels, 226 Little Collins-
street; W. Mackinder, 328 Flinders-street —all Mel-
bourne G.H.F.: Date of Sydney Sheep Show,
June 26 to June 29 A.T.D.: Perhaps Mr. F.
Young, Oxley-road, Sherwood, via Brisbane, will do
the job... .W.H.: Fresh Food and Ice Co., 25 Harbor-
street, Sydney. Also write to superintendent, Muni-
cipal Fish Markets, Thomas-street. .. .R.M.K.: The
Department of Agriculture reports against the im-
portation of fur-bearing rabbits into Queensland for
breeding R.W.'W.: Customs Department states that
25 dollars is the regular charge and duty is assessed
accordingly. Steps are being taken to prohibit
further imports of the medicine. .. .E.8.F.: Prince
John was the sixth and youngest child; he was
born at York Cottage, July 12, 1905, and died
January 18, 1919 E.J.F.: (1) For stock require-
ments write to Poultry, 1 Goulburn-street, Sydney.
(2) For green feed- and bone-cutters, Poultry
Farmers’ Co-operative Society, Roma-street, Brisbane.
. ...W.M.C.: “Hoyle’s Games Modernised” (45.), tells
how to play bezique... .0.N.: Waugh and Josephson,
St. Peter’s, Sydney, are agents for that outboard motor.
... .W.0.N.: “Monaro” means in the abo. lingo a
woman’s breasts.... Tasteless: Any leading Mel-
bourne tailor would be able to advise y0u.... 8.H.:
Try secretary, Limbless Soldiers, Wingello House,
Angel-place, Sydney... .H.P.: You could get a war-
rant of execution, but you had better be careful.
Hire-purchase agreements contain very full provision
for re-taking possession of cars where default in
payments has been made; and the owners would
doubtless set up priority of claim... .R.F.8.: You
do not say where the divorce was granted. The
procedure after the expiration of the time allowed
in the rule nisi is to apply to the court to make
the rule absolute. A solicitor should not be neces-
sary ; the steps required to be taken could be learned
on application to the Divorce Court officials....
W.J.M.: Your solicitors, having before them all
the facts and documents, advised you that re-
registration was not necessary; we are not in a
position to criticise that advice. Speaking generally,
an absolute assignment of goods passes the legal
rights in them to the assignee.... J. J. W.: Write to
any of these: Grosvenor Galleries, 219 George-street;
Macquarie Galleries, 19 Bligh-street; Lyster Ormsby,
220 Pitt-street; J. R. Tyrrell, 143 Castlereagh-street
—all of Sydney E.M.M.: Most public librarians
readily grant permission to copy a manuscript
belonging to the library, but where a manuscript
is on loan permission to copy would not be granted
without the owner’s consent.... W.D.8.: The boiler
is evidently what is known in the trade as an iron
copper, though not really a copper. There is no
treatment beyond scouring it thoroughly with a
reliable metal cleanser. (2) Yes; salt and lemon
juice are also effective. Rinse in water containing
some ammonia.... .H.T.: Abo. name of Pinchgut
(Sydney Harbor) is Mattewaya. ... J.L.M.Q.: (1)
No; April to September is reckoned the best time
to go to the island. (2) Can’t make comparisons
of that sort; particulars can be got from cos.
running steamers there. (3) It would not be
necessary J.S.D.: His Sydney representative, J.
V. de Batyn, Box 2229, G.P.0., Sydney, will tell
y0u.... A.8.C.: Not to our knowledge... .R.M.D.:
Reimer and Tebbutt’s “Agency Law and Principles,”
or Zillman’s “Real Estate Accounts,” or Dean’s “Law
Relating to Estate Agents and Auctioneers” would
help for a start. Also see the sec. Real Estate
Institute, 30a Martin-place, Sydney... .L. 8.: Walker’s
“Rhyming Dictionary” (10s.), Loring’s “The
Rhymers’ Dictionary” (10s.), Rogets’ “Thesaurus”
(10s.), Crabb’s “English Synonyms” (Bs.) —all
obtainable leading booksellers. .. .M.L.C.: Try
Cooper’s “Weedieide”. ... A.D.R.: Japan Chronicle
(Kobe), Times (Tokyo) and Daily Herald (Yoko-
hama) ... .0.J.: (1) Dale Collins has had four
novels published: “Ordeal” (1924), “The Haven”
(1925), “The Sentimentalists” (1926) and “Vanity
Under the Sun” (1928) —and a travel book, “Sea-
tracks of the Speejacks.” (2) “Ordeal” has been
dramatised.... XYZ: Regular services to N.Z. are
maintained by Canadian-Australasian Royal Mail
Line, Union Steamship Co., Huddart Parker Ltd. ;
fares, from £lO 10s. to £l4 10s. first class; £lO
to £ll second class; £6 10s. to £7 10s. third class.
. ...H.J.K.: Write Allen Taylors, Taylor’s Wharf,
Pyrmont; or Pike and Co., Elemang-avenue, Milson’s
Point. .. .W.G.: A person holding a lease of a reserve
in N.S.W. would not be eligible for appointment as
a trustee. .. .T.L.C.: A tally taken in 1927 of pas-
sengers who travelled to and from Flinders-street and
Prince’s-bridge stations, Melbourne —connected and
considered as one station —disclosed that the average
daily number was 317,393 ; the highest daily figure
was 332,254. Number of 'trains handled on an
ordinary week-day is approximately 3290. .. .W.H.W.:
Notice required depends on the terms of your agree-
ment, which can be cancelled only by consent of
both parties. Better consult your landlord.... S.G.:
If the tenant takes possession on Tuesday, his week
of tenancy terminates at midnight on the following
Monday. Receipt shorjld be dated the day the rent
is paid and should state the period covered —from
such a date to such a date... .B.B.: Your remedy
is an action for trespass. Make demand for removal
of the fence and state that if not complied with
you will institute an action and claim damages.
You cannot charge rent... .F.C.: “Sax Rohmer” is
Arthur Sansfield Ward; “Sapper” is Captain H. C.
MeNeile; “George A. Birmingham” is Rev. James
Owen Hannay R.J.M.: You can buy acclimatised
bulbs of gladioli, tulips, etc., from any good Melbourne
or Sydney seedsman. Doubtful whether overseas bulb-
growers would quote for small supplies....
A.T.8.: When fully charged, the sp. gr. should be
in the neighborhood of 12.50 ; it must not be allowed
to fall below 11.75 before recharging.... Mrs. E. R.:
Probably some foreign material got into the con-
crete while it was being mixed or placed: if so,
the splotches will not disappear. Paint the path
surface red. .. .R.W.W.: You must have scorched the
tarpaulin. Boiled oil and driers would have given
a much better waterproofing and dried in a few days.
Best thing to do now is to place tarpaulin flat, get
a couple of gallons of turps, give a light coating
on each side, and hang it up for three or four days.
... . L.H.: (1) It is another name for soil acidity.
(2) A banana offshoot is known as a “sucker” • a
“sport” is an offshoot showing a variation from
the parent....(Many others mailed.)


Dunlop makes a new tube
-v
...
■ Sr
‘ " V"
V«.S
1
DUNLOP
jMOTOR TUBE
fjor Service
»
r
R*
mmiSSm
w
4"
HH
■si
M
388
sbssbk
HH
“pressed”
and
impressive!
Remarkable are the tests* and wear that these new Dunlop
motor tubes will withstand. Such toughness
air retaining and heat resisting qualities—have probably
never previously been associated with motor tubes.
Beautifully finished shaped tubes without a ripple
or wrinkle -that fit snugly inside covers.avoiding those pn
creases that at times mar the pleasure and utility of motoring.
These super-service tubes are pressed into shape from billets ot
rubber, thus creating a homogeneous unit, without laminations or
flaws. They are available—boxed and sealed—in Balloon and 1 ruck
sizes from garages and tyre houses - at the price of ordinary tubes.
Ik The rubber in the new tube has en exceeding high tensile •trength.
For instance, Un. x 1 in. will support a ton weight, without breaking.
Use the tube which is air-tight and stays right !


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney!
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
ẃ
Promptness—The first essential of Assurance.
P. & C. take pride in acting quickly. Every claim has immediate
attention. This is only one of the many advantages that com-
mend P. &C. Assurance to the man on the land. Policies car-
ried on during times of stress —money set aside each year for loans to
members. P. &C. is linked up with the most influential Co-operative
bodies, and clients' interests are closely guarded. Here are plain
facts for commonsense men —P. & C. Assurance is the kind you need
—investigate the policies right away. Send for literature.
Chairman of Directors : Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director: H. Fell
PRODUCERS V CITIZENS
==_ COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD
ll4-110 CASTLE REAqt-t ST. SYDNEY g
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carle.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Addiesn:
“Ustaerotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CR PARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
PRIZES FOR FARM HINTS.
Thousands of men fail on the land be-
cause they don’t know how to succeed;
many thousands more succeed less than
they should because they lack proper
guidance.
“The Bulletin” wants to encourage
farmers and scientists who know to help
those who don’t know.
With that object it offers two prizes of
£2O and £lO for the most useful contri-
butions to the “Land” pages during the
six months ending June 30 next.
All contributions submitted, whether
published or not, will be considered in
awarding points, and the prizes will go
to the winners of most points.
Points will be awarded for interest and
practical usefulness.
The prizes are additional to the usual
payment for published contributions.
+
PEDIGREE SEED.
“ J.T.M.”: The practice of putting aside
for seed the best plant, vine, stalk, etc., is
only the beginning of seed selection, and un-
less followed up, as a stud stock-breeder, for
instance, would follow up a similar beginning,
little real advantage is gained. Seed can only
be improved by breeding. Pedigree seed is
produced in exactly the same w r ay as pedi-
gree stock. Seed from the best plant, etc.,
reproduces the first time of planting, and for
many subsequent plantings, only a small
percentage of plants better than the average.
And if, as is often the case, the selected plant
owes its superiority merely to better natural
nurture (it may occupy richer ground than
its fellows, as every yard of soil on every
farm differs), then no improvement at all
may result. Knowledge and experience is re-
quired to test this, also time. The science
of seed-breeding has been neglected, and
scientific agriculture is waiting on its de-
velopment.
LOOKING FOR THE NEW FARM.
“Minthall”: There are a good few odd
points to watch out for when hunting round
for the new farm. If you are not tied to one
district, first study the climatic conditions
and the rainfall to see if they suit your
particular line. The Agricultural Depart-
ment will help you here. Then watch the
markets and the! freight on your products-
a few miles often means) pounds in the year.
Get, if you can, a good idea of land values in
the area, and don’t rely on one agent. See
them all and see all the places on the market.
If a passing glance on a holding pleases you,
although the farm is not actually on the
market a yarn to the owner will often bring
about business.
When on the job keep an eye on the
fences, and if out of repair jot down what
you estimate the cost of repair will run into;
the same thing as to the condition of the
buildings, both farm and residential or any
new ones you may need ; also the suckering or
clearing. And, above all, the water supply. Is
it adequate? Or if not is the soil suitable
for dam making and does the catchment look
reasonable? If the stock and plant go in
with the farm, see if they are useful or what
you’ll need extra. Don’t leave anything to
chance, and don’t decide till you are satisfied.
After the inspection tally up all the items
you noted down and see how the outlay will
suit the bank account. Many a chap who
bought a farm for what he thought was a
“song” has found when he made all the
needed improvements that it w r as a darned
dear purchase.
FIRST THINGS TO LEARN.
“Jumbuck”: The first piece of advice to
a young man going on the land is to be
sure that the land is good. Never buy poor
land. A good property wall often pull the
owner out in bad seasons, when a poor
place will be a sink for money. Next, seek
the advice of successful men who know the
local conditions, and avoid like the plague
the talking nonentity who can run every-
body’s business successfully but his own.
Successful men do not broadcast their know-
ledge, but my experience has been that they
will almost always help a young man with
good advice whom they see to be in earnest.
The third essential is to secure good foun-
dation animals. Avoid badly-bred stock. No
matter how cheap it may appear it
will be dear in the long run. If breed-
ing sheep, purchase a weR-bred, even line
of ewes and good-type rams. The extra
three or four shillings paid for good ewes
and the extra guinea or two paid for good-
quality rams will be returned many times
during the life of the flock. No one wants to
buy a badly-bred, uneven line of lambs, but
a well-bred, even line commands a good
price when there is any market at all. The
next thing is to find the most suitable breed
of sheep for the particular locality, and not
to be led into using a certain breed of rams
because they happen to be fashionable and
do well in other districts. Above all, do not
use two or three breeds of rams in one flock,
but concentrate.
KEEP A WEATHER RECORD.
“Cuchulain”: Every man on the land
should keep a record of his rainfall. Many
of them don’t. But it is not much trouble to
keep a notebook in your desk and enter up
every fall of rain as soon as measured. Draw
a margin, and mark the month and year at
the top of the page, another margin on the
outer edge. Then when the rain is measured
put the date in the first margin, observations
on rain (“Heavy storms all round, only light
showers here,” or as the case may be) and
then the number of points which have fallen.
Total up at the end of the month and begin
the new month on the next page.
It is valuable to record also from which
quarter the rain came, and to make notes on
particularly early or late frosts, unusual
winds or heat, etc. There are certain cycles
which can be predicted fairly accurately
after a few years of recorded observations.
TAGERIM LUCERNE.
“E.H.S.” : If tagerim, the new variety of
lucerne developed in Maoriland, is as proli-
fic and adaptable as it is represented to be,
it should prove an inestimable boon to stock-
breeders. A peculiarity of tagerim is the
development of the crown several inches
below the surface, thus rendering it immune
to damage by close grazing, and its roots
are so numerous and penetrating that it is
practically drought resisting. It has been
tried out with success on a wide range of
soils, and in M.L. in 1925-26, on loam with
a stiff clay subsoil, which is generally re-
garded as unsuitable for lucerne, it gave a
return of 60 tons of green fodder from one
acre, a yield about double that of the ordi-
nary varieties.
Tagerim is a new form of the celebrated
Grimm variety, produced from a single plant
selected in 1916 by Alec Macpherson, M.L.
Government lucerne specialist. The Grimm
variety, from which the new strain has been
developed, was evolved under very severe cli-
matic conditions in Minnesota, U.S.A., where
it is regarded as the superior of all others
for its hardiness, productiveness and nutri-
tive qualities.
FAILING GRASSLANDS.
“Curlew”: Anyone having experience of
grazing lands extending over 20 or 30 years
or longer cannot but have noticed the great
change in the composition of the pasture.
Many indigenous grasses and 1 fodder plants
(such as saltbushes) are less plentiful than
formerly, where they have not wholly dis-
appeared. These were the most nutritious
and inviting, and have been eaten out by
rabbits or by overstocking, assisted by
droughty conditions. In many instances they
have been replaced by introduced fodder
annuals—some of considerable value, such
as subterranean, cluster, hop, woolly, white
and burr clovers, paspalums, Wimmera rye
grass, bromus mollis, barley grass, spear grass
and others, while other less desirable plants
are also in evidence. Weeds, however, many
of them not merely worthless from a fodder
point of view but absolutely injurious, be-
cause of burrs, thorns, poisonous properties
and* their ability to spread and choke out
useful plants, are steadily encroaching on
large areas.
In pre-settlement days animals grazing on
the land .died there, and their remains re-
turned to the soil some of what had been taken
from it. Now prodigious quantities of the
essence of our soils 1 are being removed annu-
ally in grains, fodders, fruits, meats, milk,
wool, etc., so much so that it is estimated
that for years quite 6000 tons of phosphoric
acid, equivalent to 30,000 tons of super., has
been removed annually from the soil of Vic-
toria by live stock alone. Where top-dressing
is not practised is it any wrnnder fodder de-
terioration is manifest?
Our native grasses and fodder plants have
been evolved by nature over countless years,
and are suited 1 to the conditions under which
they grow. They are better able to withstand
the hot, dry spells to which they may be
subjected than are most of the introduced
species. By subdividing a property into pad-
docks, which may be spelled to allow natural
grasses to reseed, the perpetuation of our
best grasses may be brought about. One
has only to observe the results after a few
years on any land from which stock are
excluded —our railway lines give a good in-
stance. With many native plants it is not
an easy matter to get a good percentage of
germination by saving seed and sowing it
on prepared areas. Special conditions must
be observed as to the stage of ripeness of the
seed, heat, moisture and the time of the
year, and these can only be learned by per-
sonal experience. Many introduced grasses
will germinate at about 40 degrees, while
Mitchell grass requires a temperature of
about 85. I have" seen a fine paddock of
wallaby grass (Danthonia semiannularis)
which had been cultivated. But this is not
general.
RYE AND MILLET.
“Ruffy”: To make a success of dairying,
cows must be at their top all the time.
Dependence can be placed on the natural
herbage only for a few months in the year.
As soon as grasses begin to dry off the milk
flow diminishes and cows lose their condition.
Some dairymen feed quantities of chaff and
bran, but this means much work and the
results are not very satisfactory. It is much
better to grow extra forage that the cows
can harvest for themselves. Rye sown as
early in the autumn as possible (this season,
like last, is particularly suitable) proves a
wonderful good dairyman’s fodder during the
winter. It makes rapid growth, produces a
big body of feed, is a good milk-producer and
is a wonderful clearer-out of weeds, which,
however plentiful or persistent, have not
much chance against a crop of rye. Ripe
rye grain, whether as hay or cleaned grain,
should not be fed to cows in calf, as ergot,
a smut of rye grain, may be present, and if
in sufficient quantity will cause abortion.
Japanese millet makes an excellent second
string for summer feeding. While rye will
tide over the lean time before grasses are at
their best, millet will be ready to carry them
on when the grasses are going off. With
both rye and millet it is advisable to have
two paddocks, so that one may be recuperat-
ing while the other is being fed off. Liberal
manuring is advisable. Use farm manure,
which has the advantage of being a splendid
holder of moisture, so essential to the pro-
duction of a heavy crop. On most soil a
generous application of super, and lewt. of
sulphate of ammonia will help things along
wonderfully.
Land for millet and other spring crops
should be ploughed shortly and worked occa-
sionally during the winter to conserve mois-
ture and make the plant foods in the soil
more readily available. •
There may be districts where rye-millet
will not prove the most satisfactory combina-
tion. Australia is a big country with vary-
ing climates and conditions suited to a great
variety of plants, but it should be possible in
every dairying district to grow crops both
summer and winter for grazing by the dairy
cow. Thereby labor is reduced and greater
returns assured.
LIFTING SHEEP.
“W.M.F.”: When a sheep has to be put
upon its feet, especially if it happens to be
an old ewe or the wool is heavy with wet or
mud, care should be exercised. Many simply
grasp a couple of handfuls of wool and yank
the animal up. That is unnecessarily cruel,
and iquite often brings a way the wool.
Others, more careful, place one hand under
each set of ribs and heave. If the sheep is
old or the fleeces very wet, that sometimes
means broken ribs. The best method is to
take hold of the flanks and set the animal
on its hind feet first; then take it just in
front of the shoulders and straighten its
forelegs. If the sheep will not stand on its
hind feet while this is being done, as cranky
old ewes rarely will, clasp your hands under
its brisket and get it on to all four feet at
once, steadying it there till it recovers its
balance. Don’t be impatient. Remember
that if you had been through what the sheep
has suffered you might be just as sulky.
When a sheep has been down on one side for
any length of time it cannot stand. As soon
as it is put to its feet it attempts to move
off and invariably falls on to the side on
which it has been lying. To overcome this,
firmly lay the animal down on the other side
and keep it there for a few moments. When
you put it to its feet again, help it to keep
its balance for the first few steps and it wall
then be all right.
RYELAND-ROMNEY LAMBS.
“Berkshire”: In the past the Lincoln has
been extensively used in Maoriland to pro-
duce lambs for the export trade, but neither
they nor the Leicester can be compared with
the Southdown or Shropshire, particularly
the Southdowni The Romney Marsh has
been making steady progress. It is wonder-
fully hardy and sound of constitution, doing
well on the best pastures and giving satis-
faction on the poorest. They have one char-
acteristic in that they do not flock together
like most breeds, but are inclined to graze
singly, so that they trample down less feed
than sheep that feed closer together. They
produce a demi-lustre wool of excellent
quality and staple, and shear a heavy even
fleece. They have hard, strong hoofs, and
are almost immune from footrot. Having
been reared on Kentish marshes, they are
not prone to fluke..
The Ryeland sheep came from Hereford-
shire, and is of a very hardy constitution.
The wool is of a good staple, and of recent
years has taken a good position in competi-
tion with other breeds at the shows of the
English R. A. S. The ram is in much re-
quest as a sire of fat lambs, the progeny
being particularly good doers. At a year old
they dress 601 b. to 801 b. of choice mutton.
A prominent M.L. breeder of Southdown
and Ryeland stud sheep conducted breeding
experiments during the past two years. In
his experience Southdown-Ryeland lambs
brought Is. Id. per head less than Ryeland-
Romney lambs.
FREEMARTINS IN THE DAIRY HERD.
“Irad”: Dairy farmers in many cases are
perplexed when they discover that a certain
heifer in their herd will not breed, even after
several seasons, notwithstanding that all con-
ditions seem to be favorable. The reason, in
99 cases out of 100, is that the heifer is a
freemartin—a stei*ile female, born twin to
a bull calf.
Twin calves of the same sex are fertile, but
when the twins are of different sexes the
blood of the male inhibits the sexual develop-
ment of the female, which has a steerish
appearance.
Not all female calves born twin to a bull
calf are freemartins, but the exceptions are
so few (in N.S.W., at any rate) that it is
not worth while keeping such heifers. It is
far more economical to destroy them at birth
than to fatten them for the butcher, as an
animal bred for dairying purposes will com-
mand when three years old only half the
price of a beef-bred animal of the same age.
A NEW SHEEP.
“Tiaki”: Maoriland, which evolved that
now generally popular utility sheep, the
Corriedale, reports that another artificially
produced type has been bred and stabilised.
This is the Reform, originating from a Lin-
coln-ewe-Ryeland-ram cross and bred up to,
as was the case with the Corriedales. The
inventor of the new jumbuck is R. E.
Beattie, of Woodville, in the Wairarapa dis-
trict, and the perfected sheep is described as
strongly reminiscent of the Romney Marsh,
compact, and well covered in fine close wool.
At the last M.L. wool sales the clip from
this flock averaged 22Jd. per lb. In addition,
they are early maturing sheep, and the lambs
weigh better, age for age, than any other
breed or cross in Maoriland. There is a big
field for Australian breeders following on
the same lines of turning out something new.
Many woolgrowers in Western. Queensland,
for instance, would welcome a fine-wool, type
which, without losing quality, could travel
20 miles daily to water and back, and climb
the mulga-tree for forage in bad seasons,
thus mitigating the high cost of scrub
cutting.
SOME STOCK MEASUREMENTS.
“N.M.L.”: Here are a few general rules
about stock measurements. Three full-
grown sheep go to a square yard—that is,
nine square feet. That is a safe rule when
estimating the holding capacity of any level
yard. Sheep have an inclination to huddle
during the night if the ground beneath them
slopes. In that case, and if the slope is
most pronounced, with a big yard and a big
mob of sheep it is advisable to give a 20 p.e.
margin. Anything under about 5000
sheep should be safe in, any but a most pre-
cipitous yard. Ewes and lambs require twice
as much room, and the veyy minimum must
be at least an added 50 p.e. They want
space during the night so that they can move
about and mother. Perhaps the safest rule is
to ascertain if you can walk at average pace
through the yarded sheep without being in-
convenienced. If you can do that they have
all the space they need.
Mixed cattle can get along comfortably on
a 9 sq. ft. allowance. Bullocks, of course,
need more, and weaners can do with less.
How much more or less depends on the sizes
of the cattle above or below the average
of a mixed herd. Cows and calves, yarded
overnight to be branded in the morning, must
be treated the same as ewes and lambs and
receive their proportionate addition of space
—they must have room to mother.
A drafting race for average sheep should be
about Bft. long and 14in. wide. It is per-
missible to have it a shade, and only a shade,
wider at the mouth than at the drafting-gate
end. If it is more than an inch or so wider
it only encourages sheep to enter and jamb
at the narrower end. Wide races do not
mean fast work. If sheep can get two
abreast in a race or even if they can over-
lap one another, that means continuous
checking and waste of time. A 14in. race
is, large enough to allow all but outsizes in
rams’ horns to struggle through..
(Continued on page 31.)


ẅ
custom a
esien
No OTHER fine car is cjuite like tke new Dodge Senior.
No other could he! Only tke engineering genius of a
Chrysler, coupled with the manufacturing proiiciency ol
♦
Dodge Brothers could achieve such all-comprising luxury
at so moderate a price. Here is a motor car that is smart,
spacious and versatile. Artistically, it is styled to the
newest vogue in custom design. Mechanically, it embraces
?sValter P. Chrysler’s latest advancements. Keyed to every
modern need o f traffic and travel, it performs with spar-
kling agility. Dnicjue in its cm er Quality and Dodge
Brothers dependability, the new Dodge Senior is a value
unsurpassed even by cars that cost much more
- ;
I
: V
|
:
i A
.
-
m. l
t-4 *:**■ *•'’
y-
-4* : 'k. ¥
{W*, 1
w
New South
V ictoria
Queensland
Wales Harden & Johnston Limited, Sydney
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
Austral Motors Limited, Brisbane
South Australia Waymouth Motor Company Limited, Adelaide
Western Australia .... Winterbottom Motor Company Limited, Perth
New Zealand Northern Automobiles Limited, Auckland


ŵ


&
%ri
m
ST'
An evening shoe of the
finest patent leather
Lissome, light and easy to wear, this
Abbey shoe has a welted sole made
pliant for dancing. The lacing fol-
lows a natural curve there’s no
strain anywhere. Full and half-sizes
available in three fittings, narrow,
medium and wide.
50/-
RESTFUL PUMPS
Designed for dancing, these Abbey
patent leather pumps are the lightest
of men’s shoes. Low heels and
supple soles make them all the
more suitable for evening wear.
They are delightful to change into
after heavy boots or shoes. Full
and half-sizes.
28/6
Order by post. —s t a t e
width as well as size. Ask, also,
for the correct Abbey Patent-leather
Polish (6d. per tin).
Enlarged catalogue of men’s, women’s
and children’s footwear post free.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George Street and 224 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
FPL 12S
ẁ
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia*, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins ... 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
POST FREE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
THE
SHAVE
PLOUGH
Shave s Patent Stump-jump
Reversible Disc Plough.
For full particulars apply to the
manufacturers or any agent.
(New Booklet just issued.)
Inter-State and Overseas Agents:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd.,
Miller’s Point, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
W. Y. Scrutton,
34 North Terrace West, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND:
Clark & Fauset,
Eagle Street, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
H. J. Wigmore, Ltd.,
Wellington Street, Perth.
TASMANIA:
W. Hart & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
Charles Street, Launceston.
J. H. Stutterd,
Wynyard.
H. G. Buchanan,
10 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND:
M. Steinberg,
Box 893, Wellington.
SOUTH AFRICA:
Mangold Bros., Ltd.,
Port Elizabeth.
Manufactured by
CHANDLERS
(D. & W. CHANDLER, LTD.)
FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY.
LAVA STREET, WARRNAMBOOL.
HARGREAVES STREET, BENDIGO,
VICTORIA.
ẃ
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess Insurance, and effect s.
saving in .cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
PAY AS YOU_ GO BY CHEQUE
'W
1. It eliminates unwise spending.
2. It saves time and many steps in settling bills.
3. It gives prestige to your transactions.
4. It instils respect through your association with a reputable bank.
At this Bank you are allowed Interest on your
minimum quarterly balance,
%
HEAD OFFICE: 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London
If any illustration in "The Bulletin takes your fancy, write
to the Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
PURGING A HORSE.
“Koolonga”: If your horse needs purging
and the vet. has ordered a physic ball (never
give one on your own initiative unless you re
a liorsemaster), you’ll find that a preparatory
period is necessary. Physic takes no effect
until it reaches a certain portion ot the
bowels; if the intestines and the stomach are
full it may never reach the place it’s meant
for, but will probably pass through in a mass
of food. Again, a full belly may prevent the
physic working on the whole of the bowels,
and then the action is violent on a small
portion. So put your horse on a diet tor
about 48 hours before giving the ball, heed
him on bran mashes only—they’re slightly
laxative. Being soft food, it will give the
physic a chance to spread over the bowels
and act more speedily and safely. After
giving the ball keep the horse warm and on
a laxative diet- —plenty of cold water will be
good for him —and don’t work him until 48
hours after the purging has ceased.
GROWING POTATOES.
“Pick”: Fertility of soil, moisture and
temperate climate are the essentials in grow-
ing potatoes. They will not thrive in poor
country. A spell of dry weather retards their
growth, and induces a ruinous second. growth
after the coming of a delayed rain, and
frost kills them.
In preparing the seed-beds for a potato
crop, and in their subsequent cultivation, it
is false economy to be sparing with time and
labor. By repeated ploughing and harrow-
ing the ground should be pulverised to a
depth of at least eight inches. The finer the
beds are worked the longer will they hold
moisture, and the better will be the formation
of the tubers.
Scarifying after germination might be dan-
gerous to the sprouting plants, but to keep
down the weeds the hoe should be kept going
until the plants start to bloom. Then hill-
ing is the final cultivation. Shaded by the
foliage, the ground afterwards will remain
moist and clean till the ripening.
Seed potatoes should be cut to weigh not
less than 30z., and should be planted 4in.
deep in parallel rows 27in. apart. Spacing
in the drills should be according to the class
of tubers required. Under healthy condi-
tions, when spaced 20in. apart, the potatoes
will be large and coarse but few in number.
At 15in. apart the size will be smaller, the
quality better and the number greater.
After digging out the crop the ground
should be liberally manured with straw or
other decaying vegetable matter as a pre-
paration for the next lot.
THE SWEET POTATO.
“Pine-needle”: Judging by the number of
Queensland farmers who do not include this
crop in their cultivation areas, it is not amiss
to mention its many virtues. For all round
utility it is unrivalled. It is easily grown,
very free from pests and, given any sort of
a season, a certain heavy cropper. Dairy-
men who begin feeding a few weeks before
the frost can spin out their broadcast corn
by chaffing up a load of the vines along with
the green stuff. The potato itself sliced up
makes wonderful cow feed. Horses fed on
the whole potatoes soon become very shiny
and in good hard-working condition. Pigs
ask for nothing better, and the barn-yard
fowls and ducks don’t hang back.
In recent years the market price has been
consistently good, but even if over-supplied
no one can, possibly lose on a crop with so
many uses. For home service the young vine
tips are the last word in spinach, and the
potatoes will make up for any deficiencies
in the corned beef.
Forest ridges are ideal for the sweet spud.
Ample hills should be thrown up and cuttings
dropped 15 inches apart. Forcing in with
the end of a stick and pressing ground firmly
with the foot completes the job. Planting on
showery days is advisable.
GEESE.
“Gander”: A gander and four geese make
a mating, but don’t set the eggs for a while.
Generally they like to make their own nests
and lay and set away from home. They will
be often seen collecting straw and other
material for the nests. If you can induce
them to lay at home all the better; therefore
always leave one egg in the nests The goose
will cover about 15 eggs, or they can be set
under a hen, the incubation period being
about a month, or little more. See that feed
and water are always available to the set-
ting goose, and when the youngsters appear,
keep the lot in a roomy crate, feeding on
soaked bread and chopped greenstuff, working
on to bran and pollard. Later they appre-
ciate grain.
In fattening, geese respond -well to the
“cramming” system, and put flesh on quickly.
Once they start foraging round they pick up
a good deal of their food. The setting goose
and the young ones are amply protected by
the male parent, who is not afraid of anyone.
For this reason keep the children away from
the flock, as they can inflict -severe punish-
ment. The male bird is bolder, longer in the
neck and noisier than the female.
The goose is a table proposition, not being
a profitable egg-producer. For home con-
sumption they provide cheap meat, and prime
young birds command a paying price. Any-
one with a paddock too sour for stock can’t
do better than turn it into profit this way.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .) *
(1) Who may acquire Crown Land in West-
ralia and size of areas allotted? Are re-
turned soldiers given any concession? (2)
What financial asistance is granted, and on
what terms? (3) Is enough land being
thrown open to go round? (4) Can improved
farms be secured through the Government?
—9750.
(1) Any male over the age of 16 may
acquire up to 160 acres as a free homestead
farm, and under Conditional Purchase con-
ditions up to 1000 acres cultivable land and
2500 acres grazing land, or 5000 acres graz-
ing land. Husband and wife are regarded
as one selector. Discharged A.I.F. soldiers
are granted land free of rent for the first
five years and a 50 per cent, reduction in
price per acre. (2) Agricultural Bank loans
for ringbarking, clearing, fencing, water sup-
ply and erection of houses and farm buildings
up to £2OOO, repayable over 30 years. Loans
are also granted for purchase of stock and
machinery, repayable over eight years. (3)
The demand for good wheat and sheep land
is very keen; for all good blocks there is
usually more than one applicant. The Land
Board decides between them. (4) The Agri-
cultural Bank has from time to time im-
proved farms on its hands. Particulars,
Managing Trustee, Agricultural Bank, Perth.
(1) Can I buy turkey chicks just now
from any breeder round about Sydney? (2)
What would a gobbler and two hens cost? —
9747.
(1) No; the breeding season does not
commence before July. Nor is it likely that
they would be obtainable in season, as it
would be a hazardous business to sell them
so young. (2) Bronze turkeys can be got
from Hawkesbury College, Richmond, from
July to September; gobblers, £3 3s. apiece ;
and poults, £2 2s. each; freight to be added.
Bronze-turkey eggs are also available July to
Dec.; 245. and 30s. per doz., no replacements.
(1) How is egg pulp made? (2) Cost of
storage? (3) How many eggs will a petrol-
tin hold? (4) How soon after leaving cold
storage should pulp be used? (5) Can it be
used frozen? —9793.
By emptying contents of shells into tins,
stirring until thoroughly mixed and then
placing in cold storage. Only good eggs are
worth considering, and the operation needs
to be conducted under approved sanitary con-
ditions. Yolk and white may be separated
in breaking and stored separately. (2) It
varies; inquire of management of nea rest
stores. (3) Thirty to forty dozen, according
to size. (4) As soon as pulp thaws after
leaving cold stores. The lower the tempera-
ture at which it is held the better. (5) No.
(1) Most suitable fertiliser for bananas
( Cavendish ) in light, semi-scrub Soil? (2)
Time to apply? (3) Quantity per stool? —
9G47.
(1) Nitrate of soda, 2 to 3 _£wt.; Nauru
phosphate and super, mixed, 3 to 4 cwt.;
muriate of potash, 2 to 3 cwt. Or you
might use nitrate of soda, 2cwt.; super.,
l£cwt.; muriate of potash, 2cwt. (2) Apply
in two dressings—one towards the end of
the summer, at the end of the rainy season,
and the other at the end of winter. Some
soils contain a very small amount of salt;
in that case, bananas will benefit by a dress-
ing of common salt, up to lewt. per acre, or
by using muriate of potash in place of sul-
phate of potash. (3) Divide total quanti-
ties given by number of stools per acre.
Various distances are allowmd in planting,
9ft., 10ft. and 12ft.
What quantity of dried root will one ton
of rate chicory root produce? Where can
seeds be bought? Type and size of grinder
most suited? Where can containers for pow-
der and market information be secured ?■ —
991.3. , ,
Depends on the moisture content of the
raw root, and this is governed by local and
seasonal conditions; may be anything from
£cwt. to 3cwt. Any good seed firm wall
supply; average price, 2s. 6d. per lb. Use a
coffee grinder; size to be determined by the
amount of chicory to be handled. For the
rest, try Derrin Bros., Balmain, Sydney.
Is waste carbide from a gas tank recom-
mended for use in growing vegetables in
very stiff clay, in a dry climate? Wmild dried
blood be any good in the same soil? —9768.
Carbide waste is practically pure lime-
hydrate (slaked lime) ; it can be used for
clayey soils with great advantage, applied at
the rate of lOcwt. to 1 ton per acre, after hav-
ing dried in the air. Lumps must be broken
up before application. Lime is not a fertiliser
for vegetables—it only acts on the soil; but
dried blood is a valuable fertiliser (nitrogen)
for vegetables. It should not be mixed with
the lime; but applied separately a few weeks
later at time of planting.
HINTS FOR TIIE FARM.
“W.M.F.”: One thing without which
lucerne cannot be successfully grown is lime,
either in the soil or the water by which the
soil is occasionally flooded, naturally or
artificially. It is because of the lime brought
down, almost as much as the moisture, that
all our best lucerne is grown on flats subject
to floods. The object-lesson is plain. Many
of our soils are deficient in lime. Put it
there. More lime more lucerne, greater
carrying capacity, better stock.
“N.M.L.”: For use on lambs after tailing,
dissolve loz. bluestone in a gallon of water.
It will stop the flow of blood as quickly as if
it were turned off with a tap. Follow with
an application of tar, or other fly repellent.
There is no bleeding to weaken the lamb and
no collection of dry blood to attract flies.
Keep the liquid bluestone in an earthenware
vessel; it will corrode metal.
“W.M.F.”: When ringbarking, the most
effective way is to put in a cut, turn
the axe outwards and downwards, and
see that every cut meets its neighbor on
either side of it not only in the bark but
through it and into the sap wood. This
leaves a frill that serves towards killing the
stump, especially in wet weather. For quick
killing' of trees it is necessary to drive every
cut into the heart wood, but that means
more suckers to deal with, and apart from
the swiftness of its effect has nothing to
recommend it.
“W.M.F.” : Of all manures for fruit trees,
artificial or natural, the best, when properly
applied, is what one gets in a fowlyard. On
clayey soil it is super-excellent. It must be
put on lightly, or, especially in sandy soils,
it is apt to burni the roots that it is meant
to feed. In moderation and properly applied
it has both a swift and lasting effect, especi-
ally on citrus trees.
“G.D.M.”: Calves should be supplied
with salt as soon as they begin eating grain
and hay, and best results are obtained by
keeping it before them. Ordinarily, other
minerals are not required if the calves are
getting plenty of skim-milk and clover hay.
If there is any doubt about their getting
enough mineral matter, £oz. to loz. of steri-
lised bone-flour may be added to the grain
ration.
“W.M.F.”: To secure the maximum of
safety when felling a tree, keep as close to
the stump as possible. When the tree actually
begins to fall it is time enough to move. It
can then be seen in what direction the tree
is going, and it is easy to step to safety.
There is only one thing to watch out for—
a possible surging back, either from the fall-
ing tree striking others in its fall or, in rare
cases, bouncing off the ground.


VICHY
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ẁ
SMOKE-OH!
RIVAL ATTRACTIONS.
“I don’t believe in showing off my figure on the sands.”
“I wouldn’t either if I had your figure in the bank!”
The prohibitionists want to make us dinky
dry Australians.
if if
W. M. Hughes says he will never cease to
sing the praises of the Australian soldier. A
Digger minstrel.
if if
“The fighter from the South Coast showed con-
siderable gameness but lacked skill, and at the end
of the tenth round he was eaten.”- — Sydney Evening
News.
Things have changed since the days when
boxers of class were disqualified for so much
as biting their adversaries.
w
Racing’s mostly froth and bubble,
Two things stand Wee stone:
Shying clear of ev’ry double,
Leaving certs alone.
P. T. C.
* *
One half of Darlinghurst is doing time-,
and the other half time-payments.
* *
Mrs.. Ever-Nagge may not rate her hus-
band high, but she certainly does it at great
length.
* *
They are furious in England over the new
French vaccination laws. More international
pinpricks.
HASHED QUOTES.
No true friend will bare a friend’s infirmi-
ties.
The Colonel’s lady and Judy O’Grady are
sisters over a gin.
A little urging is a safeguard to the Ring.
Where ignorance is bliss, ’tis folly not to
believe her lies.
Modern flattery: She looks young enough
to be a grandmother. .
* *
No matter what the complaint may be,
the surgeon is always ready to'have a cut at
us.
* *
“Incredible Bargains!” “Struth!” in
advertising.
“Thefts increased greatly in Melbourne
last week.” Ah, well! it has been very
nippy weather.
THE TRADE HANDICAP.
2he love-lorn jeweller sighs “My pearl!”
Each baker has his “tart”;
A butcher, if he loves a girl,
May call her “lamb” or “heart”;
The fireman’s fancy is his “flame,”
The actor’s is his “star”;
But I for mine can find no name,
Though I’ve searched near and far.
His ‘‘wine of life” the vigneron,
His “mate” the sailor, woos;
A “peach,”' with his best clobber on,
The fruiterer pursues;
“Honey” the man who valets bees
His girl of girls may call;
For my girl, unlike all of these,
I’ve no pet name at all.
The bootmaker his “dearest soul”
Hugs in romantic hours;
In verse the miller’s words may roll
About his “best of flow’rs”;
The plumber, e’en, may strain a point,
And call his sweet his “plum”;
With me the world is out of joint,
Eternally I’m dumb.
Although I know a gorgeous maid,
Bright-eyed, lips cherry-ripe,
How can I seek a pet name’s aid
When all I sell is tripe?
HAROLD HARDUPP.
RHYMES OF THE TIMES.
ŵ
THE LEGAL POSITION IN
AFGHANISTAN.
Dear Bulletin,- —It is pitiful to see the
crude lines on which Amanullah persists in
handling the dispute over his throne. The
remissness of Baccha Sakao in this respect
is understandable; he is evidently an igno-
ramus—one who could not tell a ne exeat
order from a judgment summons. But Ama-
nullah is understood to have absorbed our
Western culture. Why has he not taken
legal advice about his position?
Long ago, of course, actions in a number
of Courts should have been begun against
Baccha. In the first place he might have
been charged with intimidation and insulting
language, and bound over to keep the peace.
Having been tied up in this manner, actions
for trespass and illegal detention of property
might have been started. It would have been
a sound move at the same time to apply for
security in the all-important matter of Costs.
Baccha can hardly have saved much in his ill-
paid calling of water-carrier, and he is now,
presumably, unemployed.
His latest and most fatal indiscretion —
one which clearly shows that he has no reli-
able family solicitor behind him, and of which
Amanullah should take immediate advantage
—has been,- the cables tell us, to publish a series
of infamous libels in the form of a Proclama-
tion. Were I acting for the ex-monarch and
family I would advise the prompt issue of a
writ claiming £50,000 damages against him
for his injurious assertion that Amanullah
is an assassin. Malice is clear, and there
is no mistaking the innuendo. I would simul-
taneously brief every member of the Afghan
Bar with a reputation as a
forceful cros s-examiner.
It would be unwise, in view
of the unfortunate reputa-
tion earned by Amanullah
in Paris, to leave him open
to the onslaughts of the type
of K.C. who is prepared to
level any insinuation, how-
ever disgraceful, provided the
fees are forthcoming.
Mah m u d Tarzi, Am a-
nullah’s father-in-law, also
has a perfectly good action
in respect of Baccha’s state-
ment that he (Mahmud)
is an atheist and the per-
former of 23 heretical acts.
Subject to counsel’s advice,
I would suggest that £50,000
should also be claimed by
way of damages in this suit.
And finally we have the
abominable attack on Queen
Souriya—a respectable wife,
mother and Girl Guide —cul-
minating in the allegation
that she is in the habit “of
driving naked in a motor-
car.” Here we have what
is unquestionably a criminal
libel of the grossest order.
An effect of starting these
actions would be, inter alia,
to end the rebellion. It is
doubtful if the news of the
inefficacy of stop-writs—•
established definitely last
year in Jacob Factor v. the
Daily Mail-— lias yet pene-
trated to Afghanistan; and,
in any event, Baccha, un-
less completely devoid of dis-
eretion, would be reluctant
to prejudice his various cases further.
I might mention that my firm is prepared
to act for Amanullah and Ors. if adequately
remunerated in advance —or, alternatively,
for Bacclia. —Yours faithfully,
SHARKE, SHEKE & GRAB.
YOUNG GOODLEY.
A Photographic Picture of Modern
School Life.
The boys were at prep.
Outside the air was warm with summer;
the trees murmured; a pub-bird could be
heard calling melodiously amongst the vine-
leaves. The sensuous strains of Eastern
music played by the girls of the school harem
filled the study and helped further to dis-
tract young Goodley’s attention from his
Rabelais.
Suddenly the door leading from the bed-
room of the Head’s niece opened and another
defect —that is to say, prefect—fell in.
“ ’Owzh it, old—
hie chap?” he
yammered, balanc-
ing gracefully on
his left ear. Good-
ley seized a soda-
syphon and fizzed
the newcomer
briskly. Then. In-
administered a stiff
Worcester sauce
and a kick in the
pants.
“Stand up,” he
said; “you’re not
drunk again, are
you ?’’
“Not me, worse
luck,” responded
the other brilliant-
ly. “But the little
girl next door is.
My eye!”
Goodley went to
a cupboard and
gazed lovingly at
the shelves. “Ha!”
lie gloated, and seiz-
ing a flask of
absinthe he drank
deeply.
“Fair go. you
jolly old blighter,”
blurbed his friend.
“An’ don’t forget
we have to take
those ballet girls to
supper and-^-er—
afterwards.”
“I’m not up to
it,” sighed Good-
ley. “I had too
much opium last night, and, anyhow,
I have a date with the Head’s wife. By
the way, one of those infernal ballet girls
is married, and I’m to be' co-re. in her
divorce.”
“That’ll make your sixth effort as co-re.,”
said the other enviously. “Damn it, you’re
three up on me now.”
“And one to play,” said' Goodley crypti-
cally.
At this stage there was a bacchantic cry
from the passage, and the Head’s wife jazzed
in.
“The old blighter’s getting wise to our
doings, Goodley,” she said. “But who cares?
Gimme a fag and a spot, someone.”
Hardly had she got her gasper going when
the door was. flung open and an infuriated
old gentleman in a mortar-board appeared.
He was followed by the school divorce-
master, who held a writ in each hand.
“Here they are!” roared the Head. “Caught
THE INSULT TERRIFIC.
“Is that your shop on the hill, Mister?”
“What shop?”
“The picture shop.”
“No. I haven’t any shop.”
“Oh, you hawk ’em from door to door!”
in the act, damme! You, young Goodley, will
write the words 'in flagrante delicto' five
hundred times, and you will also figure in
my divorce.” Whereupon the divorce-master
handed Goodley and the lady a writ apiece.
“He’s four up on me now,” complained
the prefect. “It reminds me of that yarn
about the barmaid and the bookie. Dunno if
you’ve heard it?”
“One of my grandmother’s oldest, said
the divorce-master curtly. “Cheese it.
With a contemptuous sneer Goodley flung
IF HE WASN’T, HOW COULD HE?
HOSTESS (after the party) : “I say, old boy — hadn’t you better
wake up and go home?”
THE OLD BIRD: “Shimpossible! I shnot shleep.”
his arm round the Head’s now-remorseful
wife, slipped a 21b. jar of cocaine and a half-
pint bottle of laudanum into his pocket, and
made for the door.
“I’ll do that impot. this afternoon, sir,”
he said. “Afterwards, you can get Honey-
pot and me on the ’phone at my gover-
nor’s place. Cheerio, all.”
W.T.W.
BARDS ON STRIKE.
Sinister Gesture by Poets’ Union.
Following upon their blank refusal to
write blank verse or any other blanky thing,
a state of strike has been declared to exist
in the ranks of the Poets’ Union.
The demands in the new log include
All poetic measures to be governed by
Imperial pint.
Two-hour day, bank to bank, with open
cheques weighing not less than £lO 10s.
Poets to be led, not kicked, down stairs
of newspaper offices.
Benefits of Act protecting wild flora and
fauna to be extended to Spring poets.
Travelling expenses to and from roseate
dawns to gold and sapphire sunsets.
Double rates for answering calls of bush,
sea or wind-swept spaces.
Brutal Assault.
Last night an elderly man, reported to be
an editor, was set upon by a mob of long-
haired Aesthetes, who lashed him to a post
and recited in relays their rejected poems.
The police say that for callous brutality this
exceeds anything in the annals of Australian
crime. The victim was still unconscious at
a late hour last night.
Later.
The strike has collapsed, after a loss of
1761 working hours per poet, amounting in
terms of money to 275. 6d., and the men are
flocking back to their Muses. The immedi-
ate cause is said to have been the decision
of the Black and White Artists’ Union to
pay their levy in Orange Crush instead of
beer, but this is indignantly denied by the
secretary. The Prime Minister is appoint-
ing a Royal Commission to inquire into the
scandal.
D. McM.


Nf '/*
4
-oP £J
■:?
22
V
H*3
JIT
-|Kr£
«Mt
/T
V
' ,Mt A
2
PRICE
BERRY
On the Crest
of th e Wave
There are more bottles of Old
Court Whisky sold in Australia
today than of anv other single
brand of whisky on the market.
This brief statement is sufficient to finally
and conclusively prove the popularity of
Old Court whisky, and to convince every
man that in quality, age, purity and flavor,
Old Court whisky is completely satisfying
the Australian taste.
\
ttourf
Qhc VorldP Purest
THE NATION S FIRST FAVORITE


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic P.isk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
A WONDERFUL BODY BUILDER
u
MY ADVICE
TO YOU t
TAKE
AB
TONIC WINE
RELIEVES
EXHAUSTION
AB
AB
stsTißnfispp
TRADE MARK'
REGISTERED
BUILDS UP
THE SYSTEM
AFTER ILLNESS.
«553-Sr.«o».
Obtainable everywhere throughout Australia—
CHEMISTS, LICENSED GROCERS, HOTELS, etc.
Suppliers for N.S.W. and Q’land: McLaughlin & Co., Ltd., Corner Sussex and Hay Streets, Sydney.
„ „ West Australia Distillers Agency, Ltd., Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
. l Irvine & McEachern, Brisbane Street, Launceston.
„ ~ Tasmania & Co., Murray Street, Hobart.
Sole Proprietors: ARNOLD BROS., A.B. Building, 527-529 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
'• Monday to Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
Prom 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/-
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 12/6; or
ft la carte, minimum, 12/6
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 6.30, 5/-
The Ambassadors New Delightful
Dance Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
A ROGUE IN AMBER
By- J. B. COOPER
Illustrations by- Percy Luvdsey.
Synopsis: Implicated in Paris in
the murder of the Baroness Bellarosa,
Haccaco, a Neapolitan, escapes,
leaving his co-criminal, Francois
Neigre, in gaol. Twenty years later
he is in Australia with his wife Jean-
nette and their daughter Marie,
who exchanges impassioned letters with
Gerald Deacon. Gerald’s father, be-
fore his death, wished his son to marry
Betty Calcroft, a Mildura girl, who,
however, is loved by Jack Carew, a
farmer, and Edward Felspar, an artist.
In Melbourne Marie sits as model to
Felspar, who had married in Paris,
but whose girl-wife had left him.
Felspar has received a certificate of
her death, but this Saccaco, now call-
ing himself Carducci, steals. Shifting
to Sydney, Carducci is recognised by
Neigre, who had been a convict at
Noumea. Felspar proposes to Betty,
who is in Melbourne with her rela-
tions thji Clintons. She lightly rejects
him, and he misses his certificate and
reports its loss to Clinton, who cables
the Parisian police and is informed
that the certificate was a mistake;
the girl had not died. Actually
she is living with Neigre, who is
making Carducci support him. Gerald
inherits a small fortune and owns a
racehorse. Going to Sydney, he in-
duces Marie to elope with him, and
they marry in Melbourne. Carducci
joins them, and soon he is helping to
lose Gerald’s money in punting. Gerald
becomes so seriously embarrassed that
he enters into a scheme with a book-
maker to have his horse pulled, but
the jockey, Mailson, is unwilling to do
more than see that the horse gets a
bad start. Marie borrows £2OO and
puts it on the horse. Meanwhile Clin-
ton, trying to help Felspar, traces the
theft of the certificate to Carducci.
CARDUCCI found out that Gerald and
Jerry Dalesmuch had been meeting
in secret. He sensed that a swindle
was hatching. He saw Jerry, and offered
him half of any winnings he might
have if Jerry gave him the tip for the
winner of the Cup. Jerry told him that
he was a cash bookmaker, but if Carducci
passed over to him ten pounds he would
whisper which horse not to back. The
Italian said he would only give him ten
pounds for the name of the winning horse.
He himself, at one pound a piece, would
name six horses that would not win. Jerry
told him to back what he fancied. Carducci
asked what price Charon? Jerry told him
he had laid all Charon’s money, and would
not lay another quid against the horse.
Then it was that Carducci became
obsessed with the idea that Charon must
win. He pestered Gerald to such a degree
that he wormed out the information that
Mildura was not a likely winner. That satis-
fied Carducci, and he decided to lay every
penny he had on his own fancy. When he
tried to bet, the bookmakers wanted cash
down from him. He was annoyed at their
want of trust, but he found the money,
including £2OO Donzetti had paid him for
his share in the eating-house. He forgot
Neigre and his liabilities in that direction.
He could already hear the crowds shouting
“Charon wins!”
* * * *
People had journeyed to Melbourne from
every part of Australia. The most import-
ant visitor in Betty Calcroft’s eyes was a
typical Australian bushman from out back
of Mildura named Jack Carew. He had
met Betty with the news that he had come
to Melbourne with the deeds of a fine
irrigation block in his swag, and that on the
block, in the heart of the vineyard, was a
cottage that was just the thing except that
it lacked furniture, and he wanted her to
liefi) him choose some.
‘«ut I thought you came to town to
see Gerald’s horse run, the Monaro colt you
put him on to?”
“That’s all right, Betty—think a bit
harder!” Jack laughed. “What about this
hunt?”
They had a busy time furnishing, Betty
and Jack, and the announcement that they
were to be married almost immediately
after the Cup meeting came as a surprise
even to the Clintons. Betty’s intimate
friends remarked that she seldom talked
about what she was doing, and cited her
engagement to Jack Carew as an instance.
* :J: ❖
Throughout the morning of the race for
the Cup, Melbourne was in a simmer of
excitement. When Gerald and the Car-
duccis arrived at the course, it seemed as
if the world was already on the stands, on
the hill and spread over the flat. In the
throng on the lawn were the Clintons,
Betty and Jack Carew. It was Betty’s first
visit there.
The day was a jewel. The sunlight made
the lawn, the dresses, the flower beds, the
horses, the jockeys’ jackets lovely in Betty’s
“‘Ah, pardon! A thousand pardons! The picture is not dry. The fingers mark it.'"
eyes, and that Gerald’s horse was to run
made the great race of the keenest interest
to her. She was glad that he had called
the colt Mildura. What a fuss Gerald’s
father had made when the foal was bought!
And w T hat a pity Gerald had made such a
mistake in his marriage! Their old acquaint-
anceship had faded away, but she still did
not cease to wish him well. In common
with dozens of people down from the river
she hoped that the Monaro colt would win.
Gerald went out with the trainer and
walked with his horse, chatting to his jockey.
If Mailson fol-
lowed his in-
structions, the
public lamb
would be
skinned to Ger-
aid’s complete satisfaction.
Thousands of glasses were directed from
the stands and the hill at the bunch of
horses far down the course, by the starting
barrier. Suddenly the silence of the crowd
was broken with the cry of “They’re off!”
“Mildura’s got a bad start,” was repeated
again and again through the throng. Gerald
gave a sigh of relief; Jerry, in the betting
paddock, offered reckless odds against the
favorite, but no one paid any attention to
him.
“Mildura’s coming through them!” some-
one shouted near Betty.
“Oh! Oh! Will he win?” she exclaimed
in wild excitement.
The field came onward at a red-hot pace.
At the distance it looked almost as if a
blanket could have covered the lot as they
swept on, a confused mass of galloping
horses, of crouching jockeys, a kaleidoscopic
splash of colors. The volume of sound
grew greater as the horses came closer and
closer. The crowd’s voice was swelling,
formless at first, till thousands of individual
voices roared out names that could be dis-
tinguished, names that leapt together in
the confused babble.
Gerald was standing in a car, with his
eyes to his field-glasses. His drawn face
was deathly pale.
“The fool will make a mess of it,” he
pvclnimpd
ChaTon was a length" behind the Jewel,
leading, while Mildura was well up m the
bUnCh ' \ h^iS. b MT.lf° : ¥he Jewel had
shot his bolt Charon still led with the
Cardinal, Nmoy Belle, The Wasp and Mil-
X,™ in that order
du ™.™ that . , r „ 7QC
Mildura, galloping strong y, t
pullmg the arms out of his rider.
“My God!” cried Gerald, “the boy cannot
hold him!”
Cries of “Charon! Charon!” swept across
the racecourse again.
“Two to one, three to one Mildura,”
screamed Jerry in the betting paddock.
To Mailson the jacket of Charon’s jockey
—black silk body with three large white
spots—blown out like a balloon, looked
like a death’s head. Strangely, in the din
and stress of riding such a gruelling event,
he thought he was racing with death, and
his sick child’s life was the stake. He set
his teeth hard—win he would! Mildura felt
the grip of his knees as he was pulled
together. He answered the call of his rider
—“Now then, Mildura!” with an extra effort.
Charley flashed his whip, but did not
touch the horse. Nancy Belle, The Wasp
were collared and passed; The Cardinal
and Charon abreast; Mildura at their heels.
At the distance The Cardinal died away and
Charon led from Mildura by a length. The
air vomited “Charon!” “Mildura!” Now
Mildura’s nose was on Charon’s flank. An-
other three bounds, and he was on Charon’s
girths.
“My God! My God!” cried Gerald.
The crowd shouted. They stamped their
feet, clapped their hands, howling “Charon!
Charon!” “Mildura! Mildura!”
The two horses swept past the judge’s
box. The shouting ceased for a moment
until the numbers crept up the board. As
the first came into sight the crowd took
up the cry of “Mildura!” The Monaro
colt had won. Charon was second, The
Cardinal third.
Betty could not restrain herself from
dancing with delight and doing other absurd
things, the least absurd, to Jack Carew’s
mind, being her hugging of him.
'‘What a splendid thing for Gerald! I do
hope he has won a lot of money!” she ex-
claimed to Jack.
(Continued on page 55.)


11l
th
;/$ \* • '
L-'X
V
AV ( .i.
X'v;'v
'V
:;^n
m
f. s .'
x
ASHION’S resistless urge
—your unconscious but
dominant desire to be
always well dressed —is
more than met by
Fayrefield. Hats that
never fade, never lose their shape,
and are made to please the most
fastidious.
in
wi
are ineir
one
Obtainable at all the
leading M en’s Stores
A PRODUCT OF
UNITED FELT HATS PTY.
LTD


Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Restful, quiet and cool —open to the Summer Sea Breezes. Delightfully situated with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service.
Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Summer Tariff f om 5 guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines). Management M. E. BURROWS.
Do you wear
.x V* >■
\ 14
you should^
Also
buy and wear
WOLSEY-LUSTRAL
Art. Silk Underwear
and Hosiery.
WOLSEY SPORTSMAN
Knitted Outer*
wear for Women,
Pullovers.
Pure Wool Stockings for
Women, Half Hose for
Men, and | Hose and
Socks for Children.
EVERY Wolsey Pure Wool
garment which leaves the great
factory in Leicester, England,
represents the finest value in
wool underwear you can buy
to-day. For comfort, for style,
for health, there is nothing to
equal Wolsey. Get into it to-
day. It’s guaranteed, so will
never lose its shape.
WOLSEY
PURE WOOL UNDERWEAR
Made in England by
WOLSEY LTD., LEICESTER,
WOLSEY LTD., 316, FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
C.F.H.B
Certain-teed
Roofing
Certain-teed Roofing is a high-quality rolled asphaltum roofing with an inner
secretion of Bitumen, which makes it waterproof in all climates. Method of manufacture
and the special material used for the outer surface make Certain-teed the roofing
for hard wear and long service.
Certain-teed Roofing has been successfully used on Villa, Factory and Warehouse
and it covers the roofs of very many of the big buildings in Melbourne and Sydney.
Quotations gladly given for material only or complete roofs as desired.
Certain-teed
Hexagon
Shingles
The use of Certain-teed Hexagon Shingles on Gable and Roof adds much attrac-
tiveness to the Villa Home—they are durable and effective and are easy to apply.
They beautify and they keep all weathers out.
Certain-teed Hexagon Shingles can be laid to form a variegated pattern on a
roof or gable. Stocked in three independent colors, Red, Green and Blue-black;
and also in variegated. They are made up in half-square bundles. A square eauals
10 X 10 feet.
Certain-teed
Floor
Coverings
Certain-teed Battleship Linoleum is a resister of heavy traffic and is easy to
keep clean. It is a floor covering used extensively on the floors of big buildings
and on the decks of big ships. It is obtainable in Granite Inlaid and in soft tones
of Brown, Blue or Green.
Certainteed Cork Carpet is an Ideal Floor Covering for warmth and silence
which has been extensively used on the floors of theatres, etc., with great success.
We prepare concrete floors for floor coverings by laying an efficient dampeourse, con-
sisting of a layer of Certain-teed Roofing embedded in Bitumen. Quotations gladly
given.
Certain-teed
Non-Slipping
Tennis Courts
Results prove Certain-teed Prepared Asphalt to be the best thing yet for recovering
broken tennis courts. It forms a splendid hard-wearing surface that is really not
slippery. Tennis clubs have shown their appreciation, and courts covered with this
non-slipping Certain-teed are regarded by players as the most ideal of any courts.
Send for full particulars and prices.
glllllltflllllllllll
miiimmiiiHiifu
NHOf §
iiuimiimiiHUr
I NOS*
villllllllfllllllii
391-403 BOURKE STREET,
MELBOURNE, C.l.
324-330 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Books for all Trades
Price. Postage.
Stainless Iron and Steel. Manufacture, etc. By J. Monypenny 26/- 1/4
American Soap Maker’s Guide. Up-to-date Treatise on Manufac-
ture of Soaps, Candles and Allied Toilet Preparations.
Stanislaus 60/- 1/
Alternating Current Rectification and Allied Problems. Mathe-
matical and Practical Treatment. By T. Jolley 36/- 1/3
Electric Rectifiers and Valves. By Guntherschulze 19/- 1/-
Electric Switch and Controlling Gear. Handbook on Design,
Manufacture and Use of Switch Gear and Switchboards, etc.
Garrard 75/6 1/6
Household Refrigeration. Complete Treatise on Principles,
Types, Construction, Operation of Ice- and Mechanically-
cooled Domestic Refrigerators. Hall 21/- 1/”
Marine Boiler Management and Construction. Treatise on Boiler
Troubles and Repairs. Stromeyer 26/- Bd.
Oil Analysis. Handbook. Gill 22/6 Bd.
Internal Combustion Engine. Textbook on Gas, Oil and Petrol
Engines. Wimperis 16/- Bd.
Thread-cutting Methods. Jones 15/- 1/-
Drilling Practice. Hammond 10/- 1/*
Automatic Screw Machines. Treatise on Construction, Design
and Operation. Hamilton 10/- 1/"
Foundations of Bridges and Buildings. By Jacoby 36/- lOd.
Concrete Year Book, 1929. Handbook. By Faber 6/6 6d.
Automobile Welding with the Oxy-acetylene Flame. Practical
Treatise. By Dunhan 7/6 4d.
Processes of Flour Manufacture. Amos 12/- 4d.
Galvanising. Theoretical and Practical Treatise. Bablik .... 16/- 6d.
Diesel Engine. Running and Maintenance. By Smith 4/6 4d.
New Ford Car. Brown 3/6 4d.
Wood-carving. Woodworker Series 4/6 4d.
Electric Wiring. Principles and Practice. Cy Bursill 6/6 6d.
Sawmill and Wood-converting Machinery. With Notes on Con-
struction, Speeds, etc. Bale 6/6 4d.
Sketching in Lead Pencil. For Architects and Others. Salwey 10/- Bd.
Die-making. Practical Work. Colvin ... 12/- 6d.
Machine Tools and Workshop Practice. By Parr 20/- 1/4
Ford Electrical Equipment. Starting, Lighting, Ignition .... 12/6 4d.
Electrical Equipment of the Motor-car. By Moreton 21/- 1/-
Motor-cycling Manual. All About Motor-cycles 3/6 4d.
Art of Flying. Captain MacMillan 5/- 4d.
Boys’ Book of Wireless. How to Make Crystal Set. Two-, Three-
and Four-valve Sets 5/6 6d.
Write for Lists on all Technical Subjects to
N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Ltd.
Technical Book Shop,
CASTLEREAGH & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
For Any Travel
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
ŵ
The accredited Agents of all Steam
Ship Lines. Their expert guidance and
special facilities cost you nothing.
TO EUROPE 1930
Apply now for accommodation, as
berthing plans for all steamers are open.
WINTER TOURS
To Queensland, Bali, Java, Siam,
Japan, Hawaii, Malaya, Sumatra, Indo-
China (Saigon, Pnom-Penh, Angkor).
STEAMER EXCURSIONS
Cairns, South Sea Islands, Fiji, Tahiti,
Honolulu, Ceylon, Java, Japan and
Manila, etc.
COOKS’ TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
Are the safest and most convenient
means of carrying funds.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street,
ADELAIDE:
49 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY*
Martin Place.
' PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON*
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).


M
LEIPZIG TRADE FAIR
GERMANY
AUTUMN FAIR with great Engineering and Biiilding sections—starts August
25, 1929. “If you are alive to business YOU MUSI GO ! Last year 185,00
buyers! 10,000 exhibitors! Letters ot introduction and alt particulars lieeij
given by authorised representative.
LARS G. BRUNDAHL,
’Phones: 84006, MW2201. 6 Dailey Street, Sydney.
M
FRUIT SALT
so
m
V
m
KEEP THE
BLOODSTREAM CLEAN-
remove the
poisons of
yesterday
from the system
Unnatural living is the cause of many modern
ills. We work all day in closed rooms, eat pre-
served foods, and do not take as much exercise as
we should. Consequently we are liable to consti-
pation and intestinal poisoning which in turn af-
fect the blood stream and cause headaches, indi-
gestion, irritability, and depression.
Eno’s “ Fruit Salt’* deals with these “ills of civilis-
ation” in much the same way that regular exercise,
fresh air and simple food would do. For Eno
prompts the most important of the bodily func-
tions to work dutifully and to time. Eno removes
the waste and poisons of yesterday from the
system, safely, naturally and thoroughly. Yet Eno
is so mild you can give it to any child. Follow
this golden rule of family health, proved for sixty
years: a glass of Eno’s “Fruit Salt” sparkling
and refreshing first thing every morning.
Sales <SRgents: [British [Harold [Ritchie & Go., Xtd., Sydney, cN.S. c (S).
ENOS
“FRUIT SALT-
TRADE MARK
RANGER
SHELLS
§
£
w
X
6-28
A
great
shell at
moderate price
For your all round shooting use
the new Winchester Ranger
weather proofed shell. A quality
smokeless powder shell that will
cut your shooting cost. With a
higher brass base. New improved
primer. Sure fire. Uniform. Per-
fect pattern.
For sale by dealers everywhere
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS CO.
New Haven, Conn., U.S.A.
Always use Winchester Ammunition with Winchester Arms
<They arc made for each other-
Pen and Picture
Shadow Shows
In “Q Ships”
British Domin-
ion Films have
succeeded in
making a stir-
ring drama
without the use
of a hero or
a heroine. Or,
if the romantically inclined demand the
machinery of old-fashioned drama, they can,
if they like, call the 45,000,000 inhabitants
of _ Britain the heroine; the U-boat cam-
paign, which aimed at throttling those mil-
lions, might be regarded as the villain;
the hero is, of course, the British Navy.
AVithout undue heroics, the picture unfolds
the story of the genesis of the mystery ships,
which, disguised as trawlers, lured the Ger-
man submarines to the surface and destruc-
tion. The tars thoroughly enjoyed their
masquerade^—it was right in their line,
despite the sinister reality underneath the
make-up. The final phase shows the de-
feated enemy coming into Scapa Flow and
the Aawky submarines tied up in rows like
strings of carrots. Students of the art of
war will find in this authentic picture a
vivid presentation of the ancient military
axiom that every advance in offence is
promptly met by a defensive development.
It was Conan Doyle who gained great kudos
as a military sage when he announced at
the start of the late war that the smallest
nation could defeat the largest if she used
submersibles with proper ruthlessness.
Conan will be remembered, not as a prophet,
but as a believer in spooks and a writer of
entertaining fiction.
“Napoleon” is a more or less official
French effort to awaken sentimental interest
in the great Corsican who mastered every-
thing in the country he adopted except its
language. The film has some good points
as an entertainment —spectacular incidents,
romantic costuming and, in places, brisk-
enough action. A defect is that the phases
GINA MANES,
of “Napoleon.”
of Napoleonic
history dealt
with are of
peculiarly
french in-
terest ; the big
world - moving
spectacles are
left untouched,
and the pic-
ture conse-
quently falls
short of the
topic’s possi-
bilities. The
makers, or the
picture’s sub-
editors, for it
has evidently
been heavily
and hurriedly
subbed, appear
to have been
without much
idea of selec-
tion. The ori-
ginal objective
was apparently
to put every single fact, that history has
recorded of Nap. into a film. You meet him
first as a child, and have to watch genius
budding over hundreds of feet of movie.
Then there’s an inn scene in which young
Nap.’s mesmeric personality first exerts
itself ; then an escape on horseback, the
climbing of a castle wall, the stealing of a
flag, and more escape in the boat with the flag
for sail. So the details go on and on, until,
just when there’s some hope that really
important events will come on, the axe falls
with a terrific wallop. The actors are fair
all round, but the picture doesn’t do justice
to either Nap. or the French film industry.
Sometimes, but rarely, Australia gets into
the pictures, but it is usually by devious
ways and means, up a back street and as
a sort of poor relation of the great motion-
picture industry. “Charting the Coast” was
a film shown in Melbourne the other evening
before a small but appreciative audience of
Navy Leaguers. It was not made for ex-
hibition, so it is not so self-conscious as the
usual scenic. It was shot by Commander
Bennett, ret., during his leisure moments
when in charge of H.M.A.S. Geranium. The
Geranium was employed for years shifting
the coasts and islands of North Queensland
back into the locations where the Almighty
put them, previous chartmakers having
placed them anything from three to ten miles
out of position. Bennett, who is a fluent
speaker, graduated from the B.N. survey
branch in Borneo to the Australian service.
The picture shows officers and men in a
survey kit, which consists mainly of sun-
burned skin, painting marks on the tops of
mountains, dropping buoys, taking angles
and performing other mysteries of the science
of surveying. A strenuous but fascinating
pastime. Their spare time was spent motor-
launching up mangrove-fringed rivers of
immense size, slaughtering innumerable croc-
odiles with a Lewis gun. There are some
highly interesting glimpses of the arts and
customs of the aborigines of Melville Island
and other places. With great impartiality
Bennett made a reel of a tribal fight, stopped
by a Roman Catholic father just as it began
to get interesting. Bennett would have
made a. good pressman. The nlm opefis up
what is almost virgin ground for the Aus-
tralian cinematographer.
Somebody on Poverty Point said recently
that the screen-writers had only three plots.
The story of “The Son of the Golden West”
(F. 8.0.) is one of them. When Tom Mix
heaves in sight over the desert and ap-
proaches on his beautiful black steed at the
rate of 95 m.p.h. you know that you are
going to see some effective, if largely faked,
horsemanship. When he steps briskly into
the Western Saloon and announces himself
as a telegraph guardsman, and when a des-
perado with a chin like the heel of a boot
whispers darkly to his associates that “the
telegraph line must never be built —it will
bring law and order into Tennessee,” well,
you know what is going to happen. It
happens according to plan and with the
maximum amount of bloodshed, and in due
course Mix fades out with Fritzi Ridgeway
folded in liis arms, and one grabs one’s
neighbor’s hat, as being better than one s
own, and makes for the exit, idly speculating
as to whether 100 years hence Charles
Todd, who built the Adelaide-to-Darwin tele-
graph, will be represented on the screen by
a beautiful youth with a marcelle wave, a
dirty right and an endless capacity for
cuddling moon-faced heroines.
Vic. Artists’ Society
The decline of fish-eating has been much
deplored of late in Melbourne. The reason
is said to be that the price of fish is too high,
but so is the price of chocolates, and there
are six chocolate shops in Melbourne to
every fish shop. Despite heroic efforts to
popularise leatherjacket under the name of
butterdish, the fact remains that Melbourne
obdurately refuses to think of a square meal
in terms of filleted fiathead or baked barra-
eouta. It is a great pity, because fish is a
brain food, and never did Australia stand
in such need of brains as now, when it
has to follow the dialogue in all these Ameri-
can talkies.
Melbourne has no real prejudice against
eating groper served up as kingfish. It has
simply got out of the habit because the
supply is small, poor and subject to. violent
fluctuations, and this is where the Victorian
Artists’ Society could render major assist-
ance. In its latest show there are 230
exhibits, most of them from different ex-
hibitors, and of these barely a score show
genuine artistic talent. Consequently there
are approximately 200 persons in and around
Melbourne who waste their time painting
when they might be fishing. It is all non-
sense to say that fishing is a difficult and
dangerous business. It can be learnt in a
month, under proper tuition; and as tor
the danger, painters run greater risks every
day when they set out to paint a portrait.
A list of exhibitors who might be per-
mitted to continue painting would be ser-
viceable. Among them are E. Buckmaster,
whose' brown study of a river is the sincercst
landscape he has, yet attempted; Alma
Figuerola, whose still-lifes are always enve-
loped in a thrilling atmosphere; Justus
Jorgensen, whose nude is awkwardly posed
but triumphantly realised; Murray Griffin,
who is gaining confidence; Hugh P. Hah,
whose monochromic “Sentinels” has an
arresting air of gloomv expectancy; Charles
Wheeler, John Longstaff and W. B. Mclnnes,
though all three show work below standard;
A. Coleman, whose “Buchan Valley” is well
seen, but overwhelmed by an ejaculatory
sky; John Farmer, whose rich, sensuous
color and glowing atmosphere contradict the
current platitudes about realism; F. R.
Thompson, whose romantic picture of the
T. and G. Building is a quick but authentic
impression; Sheila Hawkins, who is dis-
tinctly clever with her pencil; and Pat
Harford, who is the only futurist and should
be preserved as an interesting curiosity.
The list might be revised annually by a
joint committee of art-critics and officers of j
the Game and Fisheries Department.
The Palette
Norman Lloyd, who has been absent from
Australia for a few years, has staged an
exhibition of paintings of France and Italy
at the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney. It is
a rather uneven show, revealing the artist
as still in an experimental stage. A collec-
tion of vivid boats on the Seine, a glimpse
of Murano with a choice bit of sky, and a
view of the Dolomites from the Adriatic,
with a daring but successful wide foreground
of water, are his best efforts.
Conspicuous among the crowd of pictures
—-nearly 200 —in the Water-Color Institute
show at the Education Department Gallery,
Sydney, are the Norman Lindsay offerings.
“The Naiad’s Hour” is a magnificent piece
—soft colors, quick imagination and excel-
lent arrangement. “Loot” is a fine essay in
character flooded with gay color and sunlight.
The late F. P, Mahony’s dust-colored herd of
approaching cattle is another of the choicer
notes of the show, which also holds very
attractive work by M. J. MacNally, Albert
Collins, John R. Eldershaw, R. Fizelle, Fred
Leist, A, H. Fullwood, J. Muir Auld, R. H.
Steuart, G. K. Townsend, Jean Russell and
Harold Herbert.
“H.M.”: Lynch, the sculptor, and Drif-
field, of the comic drawings, said “So-long,
Sydney !” last week. Driffield’s objective is
Fleet-street; Lynch is aiming at Paris.
Lynch was one of a band of Maoriland
artists who made a raid on Sydney after the
war. His brother Joe. a promising black-
and-white man, was accidentally drowned in
the Harbor, and the body was never recov-
ered.
Miss Jo Sweatman’s show of oils at the
Athenaeum, Melbourne, has (of course!) been
described as that of a realist. Miss Sweat-
man is scarcely more a realist —at any rate, a
successful realist—than writer is a motor
manufacturer. lie could make a heap of
all the nuts, screws, bolts and squeaks that go
to make/ a Ford without producing a Lizzie
that would travel. In the same way, Miss
Sweatman collects all the leaves, flowers,
lights and shadows that make up a land-
scape, but because she does not put them
together in their right her
pictures seldom carry the eye more than a
few feet back from the surface of the can-
vas—with some exceptions. The charming-
snip of girlhood in the blue jumper (No. 3)
is one of them. She is life caught swiftly
and broadly before the details could muddle
the painter. Miss S. is the most industrious
feminine brush in Melbourne and she might
easily become the most interesting. Her
trouble is that she tries to see too much.


rid
I
s.
r.**
i
IK
Li
\PSON
THE WORLD’S BEST TYRE
OBTAINABLE AT ALL CABACE/
[pat O jmJ
RP2O'
PERFORMANCE is the supreme test!
And it is by performance in every part of
the world that the British Rapson Tyre has estab-
lished its claim to be “The World’s Best Tyre.”
On road and track, wherever motors are, Rapsons have
led the way —and now, manufactured in the Common-
wealth, these supreme tyres are brought within the reach of
every Australian motorist. . . . For to-day you can go to
your garage and buy a Rapson at a price no higher
than you would be asked to pay for any other
leading make.
SPARE THE
PUMP—AND
SPOIL THE
TYRE
Look to your
pressures
Wholesale Distribution:
QUEENSLAND: Rapson Distributors (Q’land), Ltd.,
Brisbane.
N. S. WALES: Rapson Distributors (N.S.W.), Ltd.,
Sydney.
VICTORIA: Rapson Distributors (Vie.) Pty., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Rapson Distributors (S.A.), Ltd.
Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Rapson Distributors (W.A.), Ltd.
Perth.
TASMANIA: The Rapson Tyre & Rubber Co. (Aust.), Ltd.
Launceston.


/ '
!/ will appreciate
/ the. delicate
Bouquet and
(\ mellow flavour of
MARTELLS
BRANDY^^^H
shippeo souiv fqom the coatuAQ oismser
a
For They are Jolly Good Fellows.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S
SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
A nd so say all of us..
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERF*I AND GERALDTON.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Sydney punters had to wait until the third
race to see a favorite win at Canterbury
lark on Saturday—Pure Tea, backed from
o to 2 to 6 to 4, led all the way in the
handicap for two-year-olds—and they were
fated not to see another get home during the
afternoon. They have had a very bad “trot”
since the first day of the Easter meeting at
Randwick; still, Canterbury Park would
have been worse for them if McShortodds
had not carried caution to excess. Before a
blow had been struck on the Flying Handi-
cap, that person was demanding a shade of
odds about Magnetic, and hundreds of Mag-
netic fanciers disgustedly refused to lay it.
Ridden as if he had three furlongs to travel
instead of six, the favorite was beaten into
third place by Venetian Lady (5 to 1) and
Bavarde. The Wolaroi mare has evidently
been raced out of her distance.
Goodstead (6 to 1), his 9st. 131 b. not-
withstanding, made his opponents look very
cheap in the first division of the Highweight
Handicap. He is another of those Green-
steads whom shrewd buyers pick up for two
or three hundred guineas at the yearling
sales while greenhorns give as many thou-
sands for the offspring of fashionable impor-
tations, only to see them turn out duds. F.
G. Spurway threw in for a good win on Fac-
tor (4 to 1) in the second division, but the
squibby Resorby (12 to doing his best
for once, set up a lead which proved deci-
sive. Cook, rider of Crucis in the Sydney
Gup, was on Venetian Lady and Resorby.
On form Jeypore had nb chance in the.
Canterbury Handicap, yet nothing ever
passed him, and he stayed out a distance
which he had never compassed before —a
mile and three furlongs. Puff (4 to 1) and
Eudorus (7 to 2) filled the other positions;
Eden Hall, the favorite, had a rather rough
passage, but should have done better all the
same. On a straight-out tote with a reason-
able deduction instead of the burglarious 12£
p.c. plus fractions, Jeypore would have
been anything from 50 to 1 up. As it was
his div. (one of three) was £9 Os. 6d. for
10s. The bookmakers’ quotation was 20 to 1.
Very few laid him at all.
Waipori (5 to 1), a natty little brown
mare by Polycrates—Brown Eyes, got the
best of an exciting finish in the Ashbury
Handicap; and people were glad to see Far-
thing back on the list of successful riders
again. Trishna (6 to 1) and Roley (5tol),
a very close second and third, are both
likely-looking sorts: Trishna is a three-year-
old brother to M'ondiaga. Aorangi (2 to 1),
for whom the stable scratched the well handi-
capped Trahere, was never prominent.
* * * *
For Randwick on Saturday:—
Hurdle Race: Dr. Grace.
Flying Handicap: Magnetic; next, Casque
3’Or.
Tattersall’s Stakes : Trishna ; next, Eillom.
James Barnes Stakes: Inducement or
Honan; next, Octember.
Welter Handicap: Inducement or Ulah;
aext, Blather.
Close on 100 horses stripped for action at
Mentone (Vic.) last Saturday. The Encour-
age Mile brought out 20 runners, and 25
competed in the Mentone Purse, which race
at least should have been divided. Jack Holt
led off by taking the Two-year-old Handicap
with Errantry, a shapely filly. by Saltash,
sire of Strephon. Gallops on the Mentone
track are not touted by the daily press, but
professional punters soon get to know of
good trials, and several swooped down on the
bookmaker who offered 7 to 2 Errantry. She;
firmed to 2tol in a few seconds. However,
Holt reckoned that she might be too green,
and the filly drifted back to 7 to 2. A colt
from Sydney with no public record, Lord
Barrigan, by Beaufort —Lady Irish, com-
manded strong support, but ran off at the
home turn. Ellesdee, an ingeniously-named
filly by Paper Money, set the pace. She suc-
cumbed by nearly a length to Errantry, who
has nice action and will do better still.
Bob Ferguson, son-in-law of Frank Mus-
grave, landed a double by taking the Encour-
age Mile with Polthogue and the Mentone
Handicap with King’s Consort. Very long
odds could be had about Polthogue at one
stage, but lie shortened to 10 to 1. Ridden
by an apprentice, Polthogue finished bril-
liantly to beat the favorite, Saroeta, by a
length and a half. His little son being away
in Adelaide, where he gained third riding
honors in the Goodwood Handicap, Fred
Hoysted enlisted the services of “Tich” Wil-
son for Saroeta. In the Mentone Handicap
young R. Howes, who rode Strephon in the
Melbourne Cup, was on King’s Consort (6 to
1) ; this mare is held on lease from E. L.
and C. Baillieu. She came from behind to
vanquish the heavly-baeked Reputed King.
Bligny has changed stables since his stag-
gering failure at Epsom on April 13. The
Calais gelding again was ridden by H.
PLUS OR MINUS?
HE: “What's Mabel’s handicap?”
SHE: “Her face."
Thompson at Mentone, and was first choice
for the Brush Steeplechase; but he revealed
little, if any, improvement in form. Patri-
otic, a recruit from the hurdle ranks, gave
that plucky but unlucky horseman E. Raw-
lings another winning mount; Rawlings had
won with him over the battens at Moonee
Valley on April 23. T. M. Burke, who owns
Patriotic, didn’t have a bean on him.
That Harry Gavin ought never to have
been beaten on the previous Saturday at
Caulfield was demonstrated when the son of
Eurythmic carried Hugh Cairns to comfort-
able victory in the Mentone Plate. He was
followed home by Clarogale, who had been
successful at Caulfield, but not in the race
wherein Harry Gavin ran second. It was
picking up money to back Harry Gavin at
2 to 1 in relatively poor company.
* * * *
For Sandown Park on Saturday:—
Park Plate: Clarogale ; next, Willowyn.
Park Handicap: King’s Consort; next,
Reputed King.
Bad luck still dogs Ben Cliaffey. The Vic-
torian, in whose colors Manfred and Whittier
raced, went to South Aus. hoping to see
Burnaby win the Adelaide Cup ; but Burnaby
broke a leg while running in the Fisher Han-
dicap on the first day of the meeting and
had to be destroyed. Lalique then became
favorite on the score of his success in the
S.A. St. Leger and his fairly good form in
N. S. Wales; but the son of Crowdennis
beat nothing of any consequence in the St.
Leger. Glepanton (St. Anton —Glenarte)
had a runaway win in the Goodwood Handi-
cap, and his backers on the 1-2 machine col-
lected £l2 16s. for £1; supporters of the
second horse, Aurie Anton—another St.
Anton, of course— got £5 9s. Glenanton is
trained for W. Allen by 11. Higgs, and was
ridden by Gordon. The Elder Stakes proved
an exercise canter for Lord Somers’s horse
Fourth Hand, who may trouble some of the
cracks in the spring. The indefatigable Per-
cival, who covers a wider range of territory
than any other Australian jockey, rode a
double—Parallana in the Fisher Handicap
and Lady Adelaide in the South Aus. Stakes.
=f= * * *
“Rubbing House”: The English “classics”
opened at Newmarket last week with the
Two Thousand Guineas, over the famous
Rowley Mile. The winner was Mr. Jinks,
a colt by Tetratema, owned by Major McCal-
mont, which went out favorite at 5 to 2.
Cragadour, by Craig-an-Eran, was second,
priced at fours, and the Gay Crusader colt
Gay Day third at twenties. The last looks
a good bet for the Derby on. Jane 5, for he
comes of staying stock, which is more than
can be said for the winner of the Two
Thousand.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
For the amount of vim they infused into
their return scrap at Melbourne on Satur-
day night. Johnnie Leckie (Bst. and
Claude Wilson (9st. Of lb.) deserved a much
better offertory than they received. As in
their previous encounter, the Maorilander
started off in top and maintained the pace
until the finish. The Yank offered a
stout resistance, but a head clash in the
fourth round which opened a nasty gash over
his eye was a severe handicap against a
bustler like Johnnie. Claude’s smiling
acceptance of the misfortune proved his ffidck
and won him many friends. So well did he
fight back that for a time in the eighth
round he had Johnnie badly rattled from a
series of rights to the body. The Maori-
lander’s superb condition enabled him to re-
cover quickly and finish at unabated speed.
Leckie on points.
* s': s|= *
America and Germany fought at Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night, and the heavy
barrage put over by the Yankee, Bobby la
Salle, proved too much for the German wel-
ter “champion,” Carl Salm, who succumbed
in the third round to what looked suspiciously
like a foul wallop. Making up in weight of
punch what he lacked in direction, La Salle
ladled out severe punishment in the opening
round, Carl going to the canvas on three
occasions, once for nine seconds from a tre-
mendous right swing that got him somewhere
on the back of the head. There was no doubt
about his pluck, and the crowd advised him
to “have a go” in the second try, in which
he did slightly better. The third and last
round proved a very torrid one for Carl, a
heavy right to the body dropping him for
nine prior to one that sent him down for the
full count. He was carried to the dressing-
room after giving a poor display for a sup-
posed champion.
Footbrawl
Melbourne’s chief League game on Satur-
day, between Richmond and Carlton, in-
duced 35,000 persons to squeeze into the
small ground on Punt-road. They got thrills
in plenty, the game being fast and furious
and anybody’s right up to the bell, though
of science there was great scarcity. What
little there was was shown by Richmond, the
Blues relying on driving rushes with happy-
go-lucky objectives. The Tigers won, with
119 points to 109. Essendon had a mighty
scuffle with ’Scray, both teams relying on
force rather than skill, and though Johnson
totted up 9 goals on his own for ’Don. his
side merely got home by 8 points—ll 2 to
Scray’s 104. South and Saints had a great
go on South’s ground. Though the visi-
tors had two injured men limping about,
that didn’t satisfy South’s notoriously one-
eyed barrackers, one of whom laid out Saints’
full-back, Cubbins, with a stone on the
temple. South won; 89 points to St. Iv.’s
63. Heaven knows what happened to Mel-
bourne on the way to Geelong, but on the
ground the Fuchsias seemed to have forgot-
ten all they ever knew about hoofball, -and
could notch only a wretched 28 points to
Geelong’s 87. ’Roy easily accounted for
North, with 107 points to 55; and Hawthorn
held its owix against ’Wood up to half-time,
but tired to nothing afterwards, finishing
with 73 points to ’Wood’s 126.
Of * He
The N.S.W. Rugby Union season opened
on. Saturday to good crowds at all grounds,
though the 4000-odd attendance at the
Cricket Ground was not worthy of the splen-
did football shown by University and Rand-
wick. The latter won on the whistle by
26 (6 tries and 4 converted goals) to 21
(5 tries and 3 converted goals). Both sides
broke the scrums quickly and raced for the
open spaces, Randwick’s magnificent back
team being suited to a nicety by these tac-
tics. Towers at centre gave a wonderful
exhibition, and though the flying Crossman
on the wing scored five tries in great style,
the openings for four of them were made for
him by the centre. Caldwell was also at
his top, while the halves combined with the
pair to perfection. The students were weaker
than, their rivals behind the pack, but the
forwards showed great rucking power, and
the side generally was very solid in defence.
A last-minute try when scores were equal
put Randwick in the lead, but they ’were the
better side all through. Another delightful
game was the West-North meeting at North
Sydney, West winning by 24 to 14.
Manly, a greatly-improved side this season,
beat Eastern Suburbs 36-9 on the Village
arena, w'hile yet another lively battle between
Glebe-Balmain and Y.M.C.A. at Uni. Oval
saw the Young Men home by 15-14, though
they lost Waratah Malcolm, with a dislocated
shoulder. At St. George Oval, Police and
St. George put up the only dull game of
the day, the locals coming out ahead by 8
to 6.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Rugby League’s fourth round
provided no surprises, South Sydney main-
taining its lead with ease by beating Eastern
Suburbs at the Sports Ground by 17 (3
tries and 4 goals) to 5 (a try and a goal).
The Eastern forwards were the mainstay of
the side, though Busch worked hard at
half for the tricolors. For South, the ex-
country three-quarter Maher was back to
his best form, while the Red and Green
pack were too versatile for the opposition.
Thanks largely to a clinking display by
Fifield at centre, Wests easily downed North
Sydney by 29 to 3, scoring 5 tries and 4
goals to a try. The game was fast and clever,
and Craig’s influence on Wests was again
apparent. St. George did not make a run-
away Of their 13-7 win from Newtown at
Earl Park, each side scoring a try, though
the Saints won out with 5 goals to 2. The
game was dull and full of penalties. At
Birchgrove, Balmain scored its first win at
the expense of University, scores being 27-14.
(Continued on page Jfl.)
THE PHILISTINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He laid no claim to a musician’s ear,
No Liedertafel e’er attracted Jones ;
Some taste lie showed in ties, cheroots and
beer,
But none in tenors, basses, baritones;
No silvery soprano held him thralled,
No sweet contralto ever captured him,
No violin in rapture ever called
His melting soul to meet the seraphim.
And yet one tune broke through his sound
defence,
A simple lay it was that so appealed;
He’d stand for hours to hear, with air in-
tense,
The siren song of—“ Six to four the field.”
He showed no ready aptitude for art,
No landscape ever limned held long his
gaze;
He never stood in solitude apart
To feast his eyes on tender blues and
greys;
No warm-hued idyll could his fancy move,
t Or waken him to fond imagining,
No cunning portrait won him to approve;
Of chiaroscuro he knew not a thing.
And yet one picture he could covet hard,
A simple little drawing, too; but then,
How glorious ’twould be to get—that card
The Ace of Spades when he’d the King to
Ten!
VICTORIA.
MACESS.


w
If
'*■,, r\
V
r
1
r"
V 1 l
■s
a>
J 2
Tke facsimile of markings above illustrates
the latest thing in golf balls. If the new ball
is placed alongside the old style at, say, putting
distance from the eye, nine people out of ten
will see the new as larger than the old.
This is purely an optical illusion; but, bringing out the
sphericity of the ball as the new marking does, makes it easier
to hit, and discounts, to some extent, the mental effect of "cuppy”
lies. A majority of golfers make the mistake of looking down
on the ball, rather than behind it. It will be noted from slow-
motion pictures, how all the great golfers focus their attention
at the back of the ball. The Multi-dot always presents a spot
for concentration behind the ball . Look at that spot when hit-
ting, and a better shot will result. Multi-dot balls are easily
identified on the fair-way. Four players using four different
colors, can pick their ball ten yards away. In bright sunlight,
and against the white sand of traps, the Multi-dot is far less
glaring to the eye, and more easily defined. As the ball ages
in play, the Multi-dot serves in contrast, and preserves a certain *
w appearance’ 7 in the old ball. Try it, and be convinced !
/ / (AUSTRALASIA I
) PTY. LTD.
352 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
ŵ


What Tennis Players
ẁ
Want
A Restring
Guaranteed for
Three Months
Specially
Recommended for
Hard Courts.
Prices:
22/6, 25/-, 27/6,30/-
(Postage Paid.)
Rackets Returned on Day of
Receipt.
N.S.W. SPORTS
STORE, LTD.,
26-28 MARTIN PLACE.
ALAN KIPPAX, Director.
Australasia limited
Established 1858.
to its customers a sound, progressive and friendly
service. Its facilities are available for the use of all
people, whether their means be great or small, and cover all
banking needs, both in Australia and overseas.
CAPITAL, RESERVE AND UNDIVIDED PROFITS—£B,39B,OOO
For a husky voice
Delightfully soothing
and refreshing. The
flavour is delicious.
Your Chemist stocks
them —1/- and 1/9
per box.
Allen bury s
Black Currant PASTILLES
Footbrawl
“Stand Off”: The Universities team which
is to leave for a tour of Maoriland on May
17 will include three Victorians for the first
time since these inter-Dominion visits have
been inaugurated. The trio includes Sturt-
ridge, whom more than one good judge con-
siders the most promising five-eighth in the
Union game to-day. With the experience
in big football he will gain against tile M.L.
Universities it is on the cards that he may
be picked for the Australian team against
the All Blacks, for the Union is looking for
a new man for the position. The inclusion
of the Melbourne Uni. men emphasises the
folly of Queensland Uni.’s decision to remain
in the professional League, with the result
that the players are outcast from their own
kind.
* * * *
“Blink Bonnie”: In suggesting that the
All Blacks team to play in Australia this
year will “measure up a shade better than
that which toured South Africa” (B.
17/4/’29), “W.R.K.” is talking through his
hat. Few, if any, of that team will be in-
clined to travel again this year, and some
got such a knocking about on the hard
grounds of the Union that they will not be
turning out at all. Young players of estab-
lished reputation are scarce in M.L. just
now. McClymont, a raw-boned three-quarter,
was the only real find in the tests against
the Waratahs last year, when M.L. fluked
a couple of wholly undeserved wins. It
would not be surprising to see this year’s
tourists take a father of a hiding from
N.S.W., to say nothing of the All-Australia
side, while the. outlook for the British tour
next year is by no means promising.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The Victorian Rugby Union
—one of the oldest in Australia, by the. way,
though the services of the resurrectionist
have had to be called upon at intervals—
has made a definite step forward by securing
the Exhibition Oval for its matches. This is
the first time since its revival a couple of
years ago that it has been able to command
a central enclosed ground, and it may
mean a lot for the future of the game in
Victoria. There is plenty of room in the
State for other codes than the national one
so much in favor.
* s|: * *
Wigan, a Lancashire club which specialises
in “colonial” players, won the final of the
Northern Union competition from Dewsbury,
a Yorkshire organisation, by 13-2. The
match was played at Wembley and drew a
fair crowd.
* * # *
“Bluey”: The Rugby League selectors
are to pick the team for the North-
of-England tour after the Inter-State
matches in Queensland on June 22 and
29. As things stand at present, their
job will not be an enviable one. The
professional game in Queensland is split
into two sharply-defined sections, each
bitterly antagonistic to the other. There
seems no likelihood of a merging of interests
or even of an armistice. The result pro-
mises to be that the selection will have to
be made from a small section of players
supporting the State League. Much was ex-
pected of the Queensland division in respect
to the forthcoming tour. Form in N.S.W.
as far as the season has advanced is
below even that of the past two seasons. If
the cream 'of the Queensland professionals
cannot be skimmed in it's entirety, there is
a gloomy outlook for the team in England,
especially when the superiority of the Eng-
lishmen in this country last year is con-
sidered.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: The scratch-as-scratch-can con-
test between the Queensland Rugby League
and its defiant offspring, the Brisbane R. L.,
continues. Brisbane is drawing the bigger
crowds, and is now talking of set-
ting about the formation of a new State
League. Looking at the row from the Bris-
bane end, as opposed to the inspired stuff
featured by the Sydney League press, the
odds are a shade in favor of the Brisbane
mutineers. They have the grounds; they
have the men ; they have the money, too.
■a- # * *
“Gate”: The Rugby League referees in
N.S.W. have always had a hard row to hoe,
and this season their outlook seems more
doleful than ever. A request for increases in
pay has been turned down by the League,
but the latter has graciously conceded a
luncheon allowance for the umps. who have
to do their refereeing before midday, as is
often the case. The League also declines to
supply the whistlemen’s field kit, and turned
down various other proposals for ameliora-
tion of the unpopular profession’s unhappy
lot. One thing it did consent to —the erec-
tion of barriers at Birchgrove and Earl Park,
in order to prevent the local enthusiasts deal-
ing it out to the hapless adjudicator during
his flight from the arena after the final
whistle.
The Watermen
Mosman Club crew, representing N.S.W.,
won the inter-State eight-oar championship
on the Swan on Saturday, lifting the
title and the King’s Cup from Westralia,
holder for the two previous years, by three-
quarters of a length, with Victoria and South
Australia following well down the course,
in that order. The wind was squally and
the water rough, but the Parramatta crew,
more accustomed to such conditions than
the cup-holders, showed tine watermanship.
The race was a great struggle for three-
quarters of the distance, but once Mosman
had got its nose in front it stayed there, in
spite of Westralia’s strenuous efforts to
catch up. The time for the three miles was
16min. 43see.,< excellent considering the con-
ditions. This is the first time N.S.W. has won
the race since 1911, making the State’s
eighth victory in the 46 races rowed to date.
The result justifies the claim by Mosman
to represent the State as a single crew, and
stroke 11. L. Callaghan may now retire from
active rowing with his mind at ease. R.
Pearce won the sculling championship com-
paratively easily by four lengths, though his
solitary opponent, K. Langley, of Westralia.
made a much better showing than expected.
•Jr- ' :!: « *
“Blade”: The Sydney G.P.S. rowing cham-
pionship was the 37th of its kind, the event
having begun in 1893, when Shore won.
Grammar got home the next year, and then
Shore came again and stayed in front for
four successive years, a record High will
now have some trouble in cracking. Shore
heads the list with 13 wins, Grammar being
close up with 12. High and St. Ignatius
tie with four each, though High has only
had five shots at the event, and St. Igs. first
won just 30 years ago. “Joeys” can count
only two victories, while, King’s has but a
single to its credit. Surprising this, con-
sidering what a magnificent record in all
PASSING THIS ONE.
ANXIOUB SECOND: “Hey, get out, get out! The bell’s gone for
the sixth round.”
RATTLED PUG: “Well....it ain’t my shout.”
other forms of sport and games the old
Parramatta foundation boasts.
* * * *
George Hancock, the burly Sydney police-
man who has had such outstanding success
as coach of Sydney High -School's rowing
eight, was himself a fine oarsman, represent-
ing N.S.W. in the inter-State eights in
1921-22, He first turned his attention as a
coach to the Glebe club, and thus came in
touch with the school, which was until last
year located in the old suburb. What he has
done with the school, crew, handicapped in
comparison with its competitors in that its
members are all day boys, and lacking that
intimate association that, makes so much for
team work in boarding-school crews and
teams, every rowing man in Australia knows
and appreciates.
* * * *
“Ivingsfield”: There is vei-y little “gate”
in rowing. One of the purest amateur sports,
it is, nevertheless, an expensive one. So
the Australian rowing heads are considering
the question of revising the rules which
govern the inter-State championship for the
King’s Cup. Tasmania has asked for the
exemption already granted to Westralia and
Queensland, which permits either to absent
itself when the venue is in the other State.
Victoria has approached the same question of
cost with the proposal that the races should
he held every two years instead of annually.
The latter proposal at least should recom-
mend itself to every member of a rowing club
familiar with the constant levies made
sending crews on tour. Mosman s trip ihorn
Sydney to Perth this year is eatin 0 up the
best part of a thousand pounds.
:Jc * *
“Kay”: Eight-oar rowing is going to be
all the boom in aquatic sport ini Maoriland-
There was enough excitement in Lyttelto
Harbor the other day, to suit an Oxtora
Cambridge crowd. The sea was rough when
Ota°-o Canterbury, Marlborough and Wel-
lington went to tlie post. Disaster occurred
soon after the start, and crews were com-
pelled to beach their swamped craft. One
crew lit a fire and hung round for two hours
£55 the"wind died down and the water was
calm enough to carry on. Otago eventually
won bv a length from Canterbury, holders oi
the trophy, with Wellington and Marlborough
next. The winning crew, in spite of its lack
of weight, showed plenty of dash and pace.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Brugnon, the unob-
trusive doubles specialist who was here witn
the French tennis team, has written a book
on the tour round the world by Borotra,
Boussus and himself. Australia is given
a chapter to itself. The con-
siders that though the top men are not yet
quite equal to the world’s best, Australia, in
a match comprising 20 players, would defeat
any country in the world. There are more
men near the top class than were encoun-
tered anywhere else. Crawford he thinks a
lot of, but Hopman he regards (and so does
Borotra) as likely to turn out even better.
“Cut Shot”:
Something unusual
in the way of film
censorship cropped
up in France the
other day when
Jean Borotra got
an injunction re-
straining an Ameri-
can firm from show-
ing a picture in
which the tennis
champion takes the
leading role. Jean
objects because he
says the picture
conveys the im-
pression that he is
a profe ssio n a 1,
whereas he is a
dyed - in - the - wool
amateur. Jean does
not explain how
he came to be in-
cluded in the “flick”
without consenting
to it, and this being
so his kick seems a
trifle belated. The
most disturbing
item of the affair
is that the Ameri-
can Government is
said to have entered
a protest against
the banning of the
film. If that prin-
ciple is to be ex-
tended, then the
horrors of Holly-
wood promise to be
hideously aug-
mented.
❖ ❖
“Rev. Knuckle-
bone” : After Suz-
a n n e Lenglen’s
cavalier treatment
of Queen Mary at
Wimbledon some
years ago one would have thought that
female tennis-players would be as popular
in Court circles as a frog in the milk jug.
However, it • has been announced that
Helen Wills, now in Britain for the coming
tennis season, is to be presented at Court,
me first of her kind to achieve such
eminence. Helen is world’s champion, has
written a book of verse and is about to
annex a wealthy husband. When the crown-
ing glory of the presentation is over there
does npt seem to be anything else to sigh for.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: The English tennis auth-
orities are notorious for their conservatism,
and have for years refused to issue an
official ranking list of first-class players, as
all other tennis playing countries have done.
However, they have relented at last, and
after the coming season is over are to
publish a list of the 12 best of both sexes.
In these days of exhibition tennis, when
acknowledged first-flight players are in great
demand by clubs, the inclusion of his or her
name on the official list adds considerably
to a player’s drawing power, with a re-
sultant effect on the “expenses” allowed.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Admiral Blowmetight”: Many tender
missives from associate golfers inquiring as
ẃ


Your Car for Leave in England—
—get it from Pass and Joyce, because they offer these definite
advantages:
(1) Widest selection of leading makes.
(2) Most reasonable Deferred Terms, and
(3) A Guaranteed Re-purchase Price.
(4) Expert Service, relieving you of all detail.
Bear in mind the convenience of a car for your holiday and the
saving in travelling expenses. You will definitely have every
reason to be delighted with the car you obtain under the attractive
Pass and Joyce Re-purchase Scheme. Detailed brochure free on
application to Manager, The Bulletin, 214 George Street North,
Sydney.
Get it
from
RRSS^JOYCE
London’s Leading
Automobile Agents.
373-375
London,
Euston Road,
N.W.I, England.
ẃ
THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
THE SOCIETY HAS NOW REMOVED TO
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
CORNER MARTIN PLACE AND PITT STREET.
All classes of Probate, Life, Personal Accident and Sickness, Industrial
Policies, etc.., contracted for.
FUNDS OVER £10,000,000.
PURELY MUTUAL.
C. B. HEARN, A.C.1.5.,
Resident Secretary.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: Though Malcolm Campbell
failed in his attempt to beat Segrave’s speed
record, he had another try a. week later in
which he went for the five miles and five
kilometres figures. This time he was success-
ful. averaging 212 m.p.h. for the five .miles
and 211 m.p.h. for the kilometre event.’ The
first is a tremendous advance on the previous
record of 140.61 miles by A. D. Eldridge at
Monthlery, while the second comfortably tops
Segrave’s 202.652 m.p.h. in liis 1000-h.p. Sun-
beam at Daytona two years ago. Incidentally,
Campbell showed a good deal of nerve in
giving his ’bus another spin after the first
severe ordeal. Cars of the kind are rarely
good for more than the run they are specially
built for.
* * :!: *
“Disc Clutch” : For the R.A.C. reliability,
acceleration and hiil-climbing test, Sydney
to . Robertson, there were three classes
divided into sections for private and
expert drivers, with a special section
for supercharged cars. There was a
heavy entry, and the results served to show
remarkable evenness of quality and general
performances in widely-differing types of
cars by various makers. As usual, the fash-
ionable small cars performed well, one carry-
ing off first prize in the intermediate section
and beating cars of much greater engine
capacity. No fewer than four possibles were
scored when the final figures were totted up.
N. P. Clisdell's 832 Triumph notched 300 in
its class, Alan Mustin’s 1645 Alvis in the
1101-3300-c.c. division doing the same
Among the big fellows Leo Spies, in a 5132
Studebaker, also took full marks, and was
equalled by H. R. S. Callan’s 4224-c.e. Vaux-
hall. The best score among the supercharged
craft was 279.20 by W. T. Coggins in a
1496 Lea Francis.
* * * *
“Buzz”: Yet another transcontinental
record for cars has been put up, and without
casualty to anyone, pedestrians included.
D. 11. Antill and B. McGee were the perpe-
trators. The drive was from Fremantle to
Sydney, and the 9-h.p.. 4-cylinder Riley
covered 2910 miles in 5 days 20 hours—
nearly three days better than the previous
best.
* * * *
“Chevroford": The murderer’s proverbial
problem of getting rid of the body is nothing
to that ofaisposing of the used car in U.S.A.
So many cars are abandoned on the high-
ways that in some States it is a criminal
offence to use this method of shifting the
burden. Cleveland (Ohio) has built a huge
destructor to get rid of its anxieties, while
New York uses the Atlantic, which is gradu-
ally silting up with aged ’buses. It often
costs an owner desirous of building on a
block near a big metropolis, a couple of
hundred dollars to remove the cars deposited
on his land.
* $ * *
“J. 8.”; Stan Jackson, of Croydon (Syd-
ney), has set a stymie in the path of the
motor-car thief with an invention, patented
throughout the world, which betrays the
illicit user by lighting up a blazing red sign,
“Stolen Car,” on the radiator immediately
the engine is started, while simultaneously
the horn sets up a ceaseless blare. The wir-
ing to the sign and the horn is so arranged
that interference with it puts the motor out
of action. The inventor offers to present his
own car, a Chev. six, to anyone who can
drive it without setting off the warning sig-
nals, and so far no one has won the bet.
❖ * * *
“Whizz” : Some fast travelling was done by
the English motor-cycle rider A. Denley at
Brooklands the other day, when he broke
four world’s records in the 600-c.c. side-car
class. The little machine was an A.J.S.
model, and reeled off 50 kilometres at 86.29
m.p.h., 50 miles at 86.33, 100 kils. at 86.41,
and 100 miles at 86.62. It is a great per-
formance for such a small-powered cycle,
the more so as the makers have until this
occasion paid little attention to track records
as a means of advertising their product.
“Frigidaire”: Something different in
motor-cycle racing is reported from America,
where a Harley-Davidson recently gave an
aeroplane a spin, the cycle racing on the
ice of a frozen lake. The ’plane finished
down the course, the motor-cycle cutting out
over 120
wonders. The world’s record for a special
cycling track is only a decimal point over
101 m.p.h. The question of friction is all
important. A tyre must be able to grip the
surface it is turning on to the best advantage
if exceptional figures are to be put up. How
this could be done on any sort of ice which
would permit such speeds as that recorded
is not easily understandable, unless the
tyres were specially fitted with ice-gripping
devices. That being the case, the perform-
ance fades out of the list of ordinary speed
records.
Miscellaneous
“P.T.W.”: The N.S.W. amateur, C. Hayes,
put up a meritorious performance in win-
ning the Empire billiards championship from
a big field at Johannesburg. The contestants
came from places as remote as India and
Canada, so the test must have been a fairly
thorough one. Relying almost entirely on
the red loser, Hayes showed great con-
sistency all through, and in the final came
home on the bit with 1800 to 1375 by his
opponent, Rutledge, of South Africa.
* * * *
. “Blue Chalk”: After Fred Lindrum’s
failure to find form against the English
cracks, it is reassuring to find that brother
Walter is setting a standard which even the
formidable Willie Smith will have to go all
out to better when he opens his tour of
Australia. In his Sydney match with Maori-
lander McConacliy the left-hander established
a world’s record by putting up two four-figure
scores in the one day. The first, of 1492, is
an Australasian record, beating his own
previous best of 1415 made in Melbourne a
year ago; the second was 1015.
* * * :l:
“Long Rest” : What is the world’s record
score for snooker? Con Stanway, a Can-
adian, is credited with having piled up 117,
hitherto regarded as the best. Now E.
O’Donoghue, of Auckland (M.L.), has come
along with a properly authenticated break
of 134. He potted all the balls in one trip
to the table, and the score included nine
blacks.
:J: :Jc
“Bamboo”: Queensland has definitely de-
cided to send a polo team south for the big
matches at the end of June; a four from the
Toowoomba district will make the journey.
The team will play as Toowoomba in the
Dudley and Garvan Cup tourneys and as
Queensland in the Australasian Gold Cup.
The Victorians have also made up their
minds to come over. In their visits to Syd-
ney the northern players have shown them-
selves dashing riders and hitters, but a bit
shy on combination. The Victorians, wlio
last year defeated the Indian Army team,
are in the first flight of Australian polo-
players.
* A’ H* ❖
“S.T.S.” : A handsome monument has been
erected in the R.C. cemetery at West-ter-
race, Adelaide, in memory of Karl Schneider,
“by his cricket companions and admirers.”
The new Wisden's does Karl justice as a
left-hand batsmaii “quite in the first flight,”
fine outfield and useful bowler. One might
go a lot further than that; I think, as an
opening batsman, he might have made a real
difference to Australia last season.
* * * *
“W. G. Snort” : The curtain rang down on
the cricket season —the most acrimonious
cn record since the “mutiny” against the
Board of Control in 1912—when the board
considered a sheaf of protests from
W.A. against the English cricketers in the
final match at Perth. The reports, which
are to be forwarded to the Marylebone
C.C., include complaints against the visitors
for failing to send in a man to bat before
the luncheon interval, though there was
ample time to play, for carelessness and
indifference in the field, and for putting on
low-comedy bowlers. The plea of the
visitors that they were fagged out is
countered by the fact that most of them took
part in a stiff football match two days
WILLIE SMITH, the South African boxing
champion, who made money in Aus-
tralia though thrice beaten.
later and showed no signs of ennui. The
failure of the batsman to come out should
have been answered by applying the two-
minute rule. In any case, some protest to the
English authorities is justified.
* * *
“Aileron” : The attempt by the Royal Air
Force on the long distance non-stop flight
record failed through head winds causing a
shortage of petrol. The flight as planned was
from England to Bangalore, in Southern
India, a distance of 5130 miles, which would
have beaten the previous best, the 4464 miles
covered from Rome to Brazil by the Italians
Ferrin and Del Prete last year. The machine
passed Karachi, on the Baluchistan border,
4130 miles from the start, but returned later
and landed, only 334 miles short of the
Italian figures. The Fairey ’plane used by
Jones, Williams and Jenkins was engined
with a 530-li.p. Napier Lion engine of the
type mounted in the Schneider Cup seaplane
and Segrave’s Golden Arrow. The three tons
of petrol for the flight were carried in the
hollow cantilever wings. Originally the
’plane was to have hopped in stages down
to Capetown and made a return flight of
6000 miles to England, but the route was
changed for some reason.
“Joystick”: Half the lid lias been lifted off
one of the most important recent develop-
ments in aviation. A British firm, name
G.J. MORI ARTY, the Fitzroy (Vic.) foot-
baller.
not stated, is prepared to retail a light aero-
plane, power not stated, at £350. That’s
under half the price of the lowest-powered
Avro-Avian, hitherto the ’plane Lizzie. The
new ’plane, a one-seater, is said to be able
to attain 80 m.p.li., but as it gobbles up
only two gallons of petrol an hour it can’t
have a rating of much oyer 40 h.p. This
raises the question as to how much engine-
power is required to keep a ’plane aloft in
these days when aero engines don’t weigh
much more than 21b. to the h.p. The Wright
’plane that made the pioneer flight was car-
ried aloft by a 15-h.p. engine weighing 2401 b.
A. V. Roe, the first man to fly in
Britain, equipped his machine with a 24-h.p.
motor weighing 981 b. In post-war times
glider experimentalists in Germany and other
countries have made flights of 20 minutes
and upwards without any power at all,
launching off a hillside and taking advantage,
as a bird does, of every favorable current of
air. In aeroplane practice engine-weight per
h.p. declines as power increases; but in
Britain and France the science of designing
small light motors has been so developed
that a mile-a-minute single-seater ’plane of
10 or 15 h.p., costing not much over £lOO.
doesn’t seem outside the range of possibility.
And when that happens the world and his
wife will fly.
* * * *
Fred Young, who sailed for America on
the Sonoma last week, is an American busi-
ness man who during his residence in Aus-
tralia has proved himself a whole-hearted
baseball enthusiast and has done much for
the game. He has been appointed American
representative of the Australian Baseball
Council, and is the first to occupy the posi-
tion. One of liis jobs will be the arrang-
ing of a tour of Australia by an American
team in the near future, that projected for
this season having fallen through.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Spike”: There has been a feeling in
N.S.W. athletic circles for some time that
club interests swing too much lead in the
affairs of the association. One of the re-
sults at the annual meeting was a motion
that the control of some of the big races
should be taken out of the hands of indi-
vidual clubs and handed over to the State
organisation. This was defeated. A change
is desirable, for the management of some
championship events by private clubs in the
past has been full of ineptitude, includ-
ing, in one notorious instance after a long-
distance race had been run, the discovery
that the course was considerably short of
the required distance.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Bert the Carpenter”; No need to send to
Burma for teak. There is plenty of first-
rate teak growing in Papua, and a small
consignment which I worked up in 1920 was
every bit as good as any Malabar stuff I’ve
ever handled. For some special uses nothing
can touch teak. The Cutty Sark’s hull has
stood the battering of the Seven Seas for 60-
odd years, and no other timber than teak
could do that.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: Recently-dead John Bruce,
who for 40 years occupied the teacher’s
residence on Murray Island, tried to establish
the dcsiccated-cocoanut industry when he
first _ landed with his brothers in Torres
Strait. A pretty good article was turned
out, but the venture was before its time.
Another product in which Bruce was inter-
ested was the dried banana, put up as a
sweetmeat and also manufactured in flour
form. He also pioneered a sardine-canning
industry—the Strait teems with sardines—
but there again his enterprise crashed.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: South Aus., which claims
(fairly enough) to make the purest and best
brandy in the world, backs its opinion by
drinking it to the extent of 32 per cent, of
the total consumption of spirits. The various
States differ curiously in their tastes. In
sugar-growing Q. rum is more than half the
total; in N.S.W. and Tas it is a quarter;
the other three hardly touch rum. Westralia
sticks to whisky—7o per cent.; and Tas-
mania takes the most gin.
❖ 'A-
“Mango”: Australian coastal steamers
still employ antediluvian methods of bunker-
ing coal. I put in a day recently trimming
coal in the s.s. Bombala’s bunkers at a
North Queensland port. Crouched in semi-
darlcness, breathing coal-dust and sweating
till the dust made mud on my arms and
hands, unable to straighten my hack for lack
of head-room, I scraped and shovelled a ton
or so where modern methods would have
done 50 times as much and done it better.
That same night, picking up a magazine, I
came upon the diagram of an American mine
showing how coal is conveyed on belts for
five miles
% ~ Jji $1
“Casein”: An idea embodied in Chester-
ton’s “Flying Inn” has been taken up in
Sydney by a firm of grocers, who have fitted
a large motor-van with wire-netted sides and
stock it with visible necessaries and deli-
cacies. The van is driven round the suburb
in which I reside, stopping when the lady
of the ’ouse appears on the doorstep with
her basket. The driver descends, the back
doors are opened and the customer served.
The innovation is in high favor alike with
the humbler householders and the haughty
cliff-dwellers of the flats.
* * * *
“W.P.D.8.”: Cotton pickers drifting
into Mount Morgan (Q.) complain that
farmers have dismissed Australian and
British workers and replaced them by
foreigners. Growers tell a different story;
they say that the sacked parties are bad
unionists, who leave the plants half-picked,
scamp their work generally, bilk the store-
keeper and spend too much time at the pub.
On the other hand, Italian pickers work
quickly and willingly, pay their hills, and
turn up every Monday morning. This is the
experience of Northern cane farmers. If
the A.W.U. would only cancel the tickets
of wastrels proved to habitually neglect their
toil, the trouble would soon cease.
❖ * ❖ *
“Badgerite”: A concession-ticket system
was instituted some time ago on -Brisbane
tramways, and it is paying handsomely.
With these tickets you can travel on city
sections at the rate of 12 rides for a shilling,
as against two shillings in Sydney. They
are not available on Sundays and holidays,
or after 7 p.m. on week days, or 1 p.m.
on Saturdays; nevertheless, they seem to be
as popular as hot rum at the Poles.
* H: •* <e
From ,T. W. Brown, B.Sc.:—
Touching “W.P.D.’s” par. (It. 10/4/’29) dealing
with the manufacture of artificial silk yarns from
megass and cotton linters. Gordonvale was condi-
tionally chosen as the location, and an option was
secured upon a plot of land close to the Mulgrave
mill, hut there we still stand. The specimens
which “W.P.D.” has seen were manufactured by
myself in the laboratory with improvised instru-
ments. While these specimens are to a point
indicative of the quality of the yarn, which can be
produced by my process, bulk manufacture with
all the most modern appliances and plant should
ensure an even better product. For the last six
months artificial silk yarns to the total value of
£435,890 were imported into the Commonwealth.
In addition to yarns, made-up fabrics and garments of
which artificial silk forms either the whole or part
are imported to the value of many millions sterling
every year; each succeeding year sees a substantial
increase over the preceding one. Any effort which
has as its objective the removal, if only in part,
of the necessity for these huge importations is
surely worthy of the sympathy and support of all
thinking Australians.


ẅ
TOOTHS
a true
LAGER
Brewed and Bottled by TOOTH & CO. LIMITED, Kent Brewery, Sydne


Thp cen/ne of Queens /onof's
'—'dd eft'sftngu/shecf Soc/o/ Li/e.
%ennom
w
Mote I
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 6780 —10 Lines.
Hlatitaiwiltt
m- siorc*£tit. I?
Macnaughts
Famous Jackeroo
Riding Boots.
Carefully designed on a
special Model. Stocked
in sizes 4’s to ll’s.
Made up in selected
Leathers. Black and
Tan Willow Calfs.
PRICE, 27/6
Write For Catalog X
TWO MENS SHOE STORES
135 KING STREET, & 316 GEORGE STREET
<
jlsiasyb
mate
jgnen
OR ANY WOOLLEN ARTICLE WITH
ŵ
Fadeless
and
Durable
K.S.Talbot
Actual
Size of
Style No. 2
Sold by all Best Drapers.
Write for Name Style Circular to
j. & J. cash Pty. ltd
65 CUBITT STREET. RICHMOND
MELBOURNE.
PRICES
12 doz. - 74
6 doz. S r “
3dot 3V
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] C[?] 500 for P[?]
Buckley [?]Nunn, L[?]
Bou[?] [?] M[?]
A Brobdingnagian cigar hung above the
new dancing floor of Prince’s Cafe on Saturday
night showed that the Corona Club had pos-
session. Attended mostly by an after-the-
theatre crowd, the jazz did not get properly
going until near midnight. Many favorites
of the footlights were there. James Liddy
brought with him his dark-haired wife, whose
draperies of cornflower blue were hitched to
diamente shoulder straps. Strella Wilson
danced in blue-grey with a dash of spark-
ling embroidery. A contingent of mummers
was headed by Leon and Mrs. Gordon, she
in ivory taffeta with interludes of blue. Pat
and Terry Kendal, star dancers, also looked
in, the graceful miss being all in red. Major
Edric Henty, a member of the club commit-
tee, hosted a party. Among non-theatrical
participants were Mr. and Mrs. Charles For-
rester, she in radiance of crystal and white
satin; the Bob Landales; golf-expert Erie
Quirk; and the Peter Grants, from Sydney
■—Mrs. Grant's black lace frock with cape
drapery was much admired. Janet Winter
Irving wore floral chiffon in rosy tones, and
Mary Winter Irving girdled her white satin
robe in black and gold. Valerie Purves
danced in black picked out in gold, and
Valerie Moule was wrapped in geranium-
red chiffon. Margot Best was one of the
many girls present endeavoring to grow their
locks once more ; and confined the sprouting
bits by a clasp at the nape of the neck.
Exhibition dances were given by Ivath
O'Toole and Mr. Donnellan, lately back from
a contest with oversea dance champions.
When Edward Stevens gave £5OO to
smarten up the surroundings of our Uni., he
made it a condition that the students should
show their interest by lending a hand, so on
May Day the male undergrads, dug holes
and planted trees, and the feminine ditto
boiled the billy and cut sandwiches. The
clock tower of the Art School and the lately-
completed stained-glass window in Wilson
Hall are among Mr. Stevens’s other gifts to
the Uni. He is one of our leading business
men, a member of the Uni. board and a
confirmed bookworm. In appearance he is a
typical college don, and when travelling on
a liner from England not long ago he was
puzzled by the reverential attitude of a very
youthful-looking fellow-passenger who, as
Stevens knew, was coming to join the pro-
fessorial staff of our Uni. The Prof, gathered
that Stevens had some connection with the
shop, and jumped to the conclusion that a
grave and reverend seignior on such intimate
terms with the classics must be a thundering
big gun in Australian collegiate circles.
The talkies are proving a serious rival
to all other forms of entertainment. The
chief musical shows in the city on Saturday
night were only moderately attended. Erica
Morini and her Strad. could bo heard for
35., and for 2s. one could see “The Student
Prince,” and yet they couldn’t prevail against
canned sights and sounds. A feature of the
“Prince” show at His Majesty’s was the
clever acting of a West Australian girl,
Lilian Crisp, in the role of Katkie—her first
appearance here. The lass was nearly
obscured by piles of flowers at the last cur-
tain, and James Liddy, who played as Prince
Karl, gave her much praise. She simply had
to return thanks. Mabel Gibson and Adele
Crane, also prominent in the cast, shared in
the floral shower.
For her second recital at the Town Hall
Erica Morini attired herself in blending
shades of blue. She likes pastel tints, though
with her dark hair and gipsy coloring she
would look more picturesque in crimsons,
oranges and yellows. A tribute that especi-
ally pleased her was a replica of her Strad
in violets and pink roses. The audience in-
cluded many who had fallen under the spell
of a magic bow on the previous Saturday
night.
Violinist Erica Morini, with violets
perched on the left shoulder of a flesh-tinted
chiffon gown and wrapped in a squirrel coat,
went to the Lyceum Club one evening last
week to receive greetings from the Melbourne
Music Club. T. Brentnall extended wel-
come to the star, who was wrestling with
a gode id her dode. Her eyes flashed thanks,
and E. J. Gravestock interpreted the flash
into words. The fiddler was accompanied
by Mrs. Newmann, arrayed in black lace, and
Mrs. Dan Carroll, whose enviable coiffure
topped a frock of mushroom-pink lace and a
brocaded tissue cape. Secretary Muriel
Campbell was a very busy person, intro-
ducing to Miss Morini our musical buds,
flowers and patrons. Fritz Hart, vice-presi-
dent of the and Mrs. Hart were well
to the fore. Leo Fisher, a Tassy tenor,
sang to Ida Scott’s accompaniment. In the
throng were pianist Una Bourne and vio-
linist Gertrude Healy. Mrs. Harry Emmer-
ton came with her neice Mary Emmerton;
and Mrs. Richard Singer, of Auckland,
who is brushing up her violin and piano
technique here, brightened the dress parade
with a brow wreathed in gold leaves and
a gown of rose and gold brocade. Mrs.
G. Thirkell was Burne-Jonesy in a gown
that wandered through the spectrum from
rose-red to vivid blue. Mrs. Corrie Gardner,
Dr. Leon Jona’s wife and Mrs. T. a’Beckett,
president of the Lyceum Club, were others
there. Getting first impressions of Aus-
tralia and its arty circles was Ilerold Kyng,
of the Uni. Con. staff, lately arrived from
England with his wife, whose parents are
Dr. and Mrs. Paul, of Brisbane.
Erica Morini gathered many of her faith-
ful followers to hear her play the famous
Kreutzer Sonata on Saturday night at the
Town Hall. Her Strad. rested upon the
shoulder of a well-cut robe of white satin,
and several sheaves and floral effects were
laid at her feet.
A trail of crimson fairy-lights guides one
to the Motor Show where a ruddy glow
emanating from the illuminated dome of the
exhibition acts as a beacon. A bewildering
array of sedans, saloons, sporting models and
midgets is on view, and prospective pur-
chasers must find it difficult to make up their
minds. To assist them there are innumer-
able nice young men in dinner suits, but as
they all tell very much the same story irre-
spective of the sort of car they are trying
to sell, they aren’t very helpful. The
mechanism of the modern motor-car doesn’t
appear to require much improvement, so a
whole lot of attention is paid to body com-
fort and finish. Upholstery of mottled vel-
vet ; envelope pockets at the back of the
doors; receptacles for smokes; and a cute
little vanity-case fitted up for running re-
pairs to complexion or coiffure are just a
few of the little luxuries provided nowadays,
and many enclosed models sport crystal
vases and cigarette-holders like salt-cellars.
Some cars feature a central arm-rest, like
that used in the railway carriages. A varia-
tion of this idea is a removable bolster.
Prices range from £lBB to over £lOOO, so
there is plenty of. scope for choice.
Mrs. George Langridge, pictured here by
Broothorn, has been a worker for the
Women’s Hospital for the last quarter of a
century and is a member of the executive
promoting the appeal for £lOO,OOO for re-
building part
of the original
portion of the
i n stitution.
She is one of
the five women
who have gone
into business
in the Hospi-
tals’ interests
in premises in
Flinders Lane
belonging to
Hoyt’s. These
shop ladies,
who are not
troubled with
bills from
landlords pr
merchan t s,
netted over
£lOO in their
first av ee k.
Mrs. Lan g-
ridge is a A'ice-
president of the Malvern-Armadale branch
of the hospital’s auxiliary.
The lower floor of the Town Hall was
glorified by the Royal Horticultural Society
with chrysanthemums and other autumn
blooms last week. Some of the Japanese
chrysanthemums were nearly as big as cab-
bages, and the colors and color blends were
more beautiful than ever. The veriest
amateur could have picked the champion, a
J. S. Lloyd, pale yellow and of flawless
shape. It was grown by an ex-Digger,
James Millard. Dame Nellie Melba, which
figured in the City Council’s non-competi-
tive display, was almost a twin to the J. S.
Lloyd. The single chrysanthemums were
charming, and for the rest there were gor-
geous groupings of autumn foliage and
masses of dahlias, gladioli, roses and carna-
tions. Dr. Kent Hughes made the opening
speech, and pleaded for the removal of the
fences round public parks and public and
private gardens.
The Society called in Dean Aicken
to launch its Autumn show at the society’s
headquarters in Albert-street. The tem-
porary renewal of the mediaeval alliance
between religion and the arts pleased the
painters, who enthusiastically applauded a
suggestion by the Dean that newspaper criti-
cisms of pictorial art should not be pub-
lished till the show was over. Whether that
reflected on the brush-wielders or their
critics wasn’t quite clear. The Y.A.S. pre-
sident C. Douglas Richardson thanked the
Dean. Among first-viewers were the Rut-
ledge lady, Mrs. Arthur Hordern and daugh-
ter Mary, Mrs. Douglas Richardson and the
Rev. W. Harkinson.
Ydonea, only daughter of the Hylton
Dales of Caulfield, drew inspiration for her
wedding gown from Shakspeare. When she
and Robert Donald Bakewell Avere made
one at St. Paul’s Cathedral recently her
trained gown of ivory satin Avas girdled with
pearls, and from a pearl-embroidered Juliet
cap fell a veil of antique lace. Three ’maids
in sky-blue taffeta, a wee train-bearer and
a tiny page were in the picture.
Though classed among our amateur mum-
mers Eric
Donald, pic-
tured here, had
a short profes-
sional career
with the Allan
Wilkie co., and
picked up so
much experi-
ence in the
period that his
services as a
producer are
greatly in de-
ni an d. Th e
other day he
directed the
first perform-
ance here of
John Drink-
water’s bright
comedy “Bird
in Hand,” an
offering of the
Tributary
Theatre players, coached by Lucy Ahon.
Mr. Donald has suesessfully handled roles
with the Repertory and kindred bodies.
Lieut.-Colonel F. E. Forrest, M.L.A., put
politics aside one day last week to entrust
his elder daughter, Lilian Mae, to William
elder son of the J. G. McColls of Woodville
(S.A.). Ivory lace with a softening of
georgette and a lengthy veil of Limerick lace
were worn by the bride. Her sister Peggy,
Eileen Chapman (who came from Hobart)
and Verna Cox were bridesmaids in pretty
frocks of pink and blue with felt millinery
of roseate shade. The Forrests entertained
90 guests at No. 9 afterwards.
Doreen Clark, who went to London with
a travelling scholarship, has become an Organ
student at the R.C.M. While here she was
known as a pianist of promise, but she finds
the organ field a more profitable one to till.
She has been engaged to give lunch-hour
recitals at All Hallows, a quaint old church
that nestles near the Tower of London, and
the critics have said kindly things about her
playing.
The Brodribbs will welcome back a daugh-
ter of the house in the middle of this month
Avhen Mrs. C. A. Johnson and her Lieut.-
Col. will descend upon them. It is 14 years
since the lady, exiled by marriage to a bun-
galow in the Orient, has seen her parents.
An Australian who is working hard in
the English political battle, on the Tory side,
is Joyce Mann, whose father, E. A. Mann,
is M.H.R. for Perth. As secretary for a
Baldwinite women’s political organisation,
she is now a very important person. Women
outnumber men in Britain by a few million,
and the capture of their votes is vital to
every party.
Prof. Bernard Heinze invited some of the
musical fraternity to meet Mr. and Mrs.
iferold Kyng, lately arrived from England.
During his recent visit to London the Ormond
prof, selected the baritone, a brilliant pro-
duct of the li.M.C., to join the teaching
staff of the Uni. Con. Mrs. Kyng. who is
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Paul, of Brisbane,
is a capital pianist, and, like her husband,
graduated at the Royal College. She has
played with some of the leading British
orchestras. Mr. Kyng gave a taste of his
vocal quality in groups of old English songs
and some others.
Paris has elevated the fashion parade
into a social affair of great distinction, invita-
tions to which are eagerly sought after by the
bon ton. The latest show of spring models was
a night affair, starting at 10 o’clock and ending
in the early hours of morning. Guests were
received in a glittering salon, lavishly
trimmed with rare flowers. In comfy chairs,
they reclined whilst the loveliest manne-
quins in Europe swayed by to the strains of
a hidden orchestra. -To stimulate interest
in expensive creations scarlet-coated flunkeys
came at intervals Avith trays of champagne
and sandwiches.
Hugh Linaker, landscape gardener of Mont
Park Asylum, has submitted a scheme for
gardenising the aborigines’ station at Lake
Tyers which will make the bleak area a show
place if it is carried out. There will be
shelter belts of trees and shrubs, lakelets,
lawns and other ornamentations, and all at
little or no cost, as the abos. and half-castes
can do all the improvements under direction.
In .T. A. Newman, the new manager, the
station has a chief who can drive while
seeming to lead, and because beautification
doesn’t look like work the abos. are en-
thusiastic. Linked with the beautification
scheme is a utilitarian proposal for water
supply and light which Chief-Sec. Argyle is
pressing on the Treasurer. Only a couple
of thousand pounds will be needed for water
and current.
Alban Whitehead, the young baritone who
on Dame Nellie Melba’s advice went to
Britain for further vocal training, struck a
piece of good fortune on arriving. He was
at once engaged as understudy to the lead
for the musical show that followed “The
Show Boat” in London. Another item of
news that will please the folk of Pootscray,
who collected £2OOO to launch the youth’s
career, is that, the great teacher Dink Gilly
is just as enthusiastic as the Diva regarding
the possibiliites of this voice.
The gardens around the Exhibition Build-
ing are looking very beautiful just now.
Beds of dahlias of vivid hue, huge chrysanthe-
mums, mauve and golden broAvn, and masses
of blazing crimson salvia make bold splashes
of color in the foreground of the lake, where
golden-leaved trees dip to the water and the
swans and wild ducks sail to the banks
seeking crumbs from passers-by.
Vera Bradford, a former student of the
Uni., who last year went to the U.S.A. and
has since Avon a Raab Scholarship at the
Chicago Con., has been giving two-piano reci-
tals with Ralph Dobbs. He is also a student
under Raab, and is considered by Percy
Grainger to be the first really great pianist
born and trained in the United States. Miss
Bradford has joined the International Club
at Chicago Uni., and recently gave a pro-
gramme with Constance Neville-Johns. On
an occasion when Dr. Griffith Taylpr, of
Sydney Uni., was giving an address, these
two put on an Australian programme, intro-
ducing songs by Alfred Hill and Mona
Mcßurney, Marshall Sumner, also formerly
a Melbourne Uni. Con. student, is another
Raab scholarship-holder.
It looks as if the congregation of Scots’
kirk, Collins-street, will once again sit under
a Black. Under the provisions of the Turn-
bull Trust an invitation has gone out to
Dr. Hugh Black, of N’York, a noted pulpit-
eer, to come hither and preach. The last
meenister to vist the kirk under the terms
of the same trust was Dr. James Black,
the wee brither of Hugh. Dr. Jamie is
at St. George’s United Free Church
Edinbro’, where Hugh used to be.
The old home of the iate Justice Higgins in
Glenferrie-road, Malvern, has been sold to a
syndicate for £12,500 and is to be sub-
divided for villa sites. Judging by the price
paid, the State made a good deal for
Stonington, opposite, where our Cocked
Hat lives. It paid £35,000 for seven acres
and the mansion on it. The grounds are
more than four times the area of the
Higgins estate.
What was to have been an “old curiosity
shop” in Flinders-lane, to aid the Women’s
Hospital appeal for £lOO,OOO, has its doors
wide open. The idea of limiting stock
to antiques was abandoned, and on the
opening days there were home-made cakes,
preserves, flowers, pot-plants, fancy _ goods,
curios and frocks on view in the windows.
A city firm sent a window-dresser along to
display goods to the best advantage, and other
emporiums have contributed' to the stock,
so there is no suggestion of trade jealousy
betAveen tne pros, and amateurs. Mrs. T. A.
Tabart, Mrs. George Langridge, Mrs. Chris
Cowper, Mrs. J. J. Brenan and Mrs. A. E.
Kimpton are at the head of affairs, and with
some of the younger set will conduct business
daily. A regular Friday special will be
home-made cakes. Mrs. Harry Emmerton
launched the enterprise, and thanked Hoyt’s
for lending the shop rent-free.
The recent appeal on behalf of the Suther-
land Homes met with a generous response.
For the new buildings at Greensborough,
which cost £lO,OOO, over £BOOO has been col-
lected. In recognition of the help gi\ 7 en by
the committee, Herbert Smith, M.L.C., who
was chairman of the appeal, and Mrs. Smith
bade all the workers to a tea party at Buck-
ley and Nunn’s, where a memento of the
occasion was handed the hostess by R. A.
Edmanson, president of the committee.
The other day a number of politicians
were shown over the acres of bush on the
crest of the mount at Kingslake by some
enthusiasts of the neighborlihod, including
Prof. Laver, lately of the Uni. Con., who
are anxious to have the region made a
scenic reserve. There is every prospect of
their request being granted.
Last week at Malvern Town Hall Mayor-
ess Luxton opened the annual display of
work of the Gentlewomen’s Aid Society.
There was a brave array of fine needlework,
and many sales were made.
There must be close on 100 women jus-
tices in Victoria now. At nearly every meet-
ing of the State Executive Council one or
tAvo are added to the list. Appointments
began just before Mr. Eggleston retired two
years ago. The opening for them was made
by the passing of Maurice Blackburn’s
Women’s Qualifications Act in 1926.


Exceptional Value in
Wristlet Watches and
Diamond Bow Brooches
Lady’s Gold Wristlet Watch, fitted with 15-jewel
Swiss Lever Movement, on adjustable silk band, with
gold snap, in velvet-lined presentation case,
£3.
Lady’s Gold Wristlet Watch, fully jewelled Swiss
Lever Movement—strong—accurate—and reliable.
Guaranteed by Drummonds. Special Value,
£2/10/-
Diamond Bow Brooch,
set in platinum and
white gold, size as
illustrated,
£l2/10/-
Diamond Bow Brooch,
set in platinum and
white gold. Size as
illustrated. £l4
Diamond Bow Brooch,
set in platinum and
white gold. Size as
illustrated, £l5
The Firm s reputation for Wristlet Watches and
Brooches is not confined to those that are
necessarily high-priced, but extends also to the
inexpensive designs. The selection includes many
new and distinctive designs, and it can be confi-
dently stated that no better value could be obtained
anywhere in the Commonwealth. Mail inquiries
receive prompt attention. Selections sent on
approval.
OTm. Brummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
BE A MAN SHE’LL
BRITON—MAKER OF MEN.
ADMIRE!
YOU can tower above your friends,
like a mountain above hills. Through
Excelding you can become a real
he-man—a powerful, vigorous, courageous
fellow with real punch.
DOES SHE REALLY WANT YOU ?
Make that girl admire you for what you
are. The real girl wants a he-man for a
husband or sweetheart; none of this
shopman stuff for the real girl. She
wants some one she can be proud of, some
one to turn to in her moments of weak-
ness. She wants to be proud of your
physical make-up—but is she?
YOU CAN BE A HE-MAN!
You can command the respect due to a powerful fellow. I can so alter you
that she will hardly know you. The very first fortnight I’ll put inches of
rippling strength across your chest, a full inch of solid muscle on each bicep.
But that’s only the start; from then on your shoulders will broaden, your legs
and back will develop, and in the shortest space of time you will be a fully-
developed athlete, possessing the strength of three men!
I WANT YOU NOW!
People don’t call me the “Man Maker” for nothing. My system scientifically
builds real muscle faster than you ever imagined.
Send for my new illustrated book—chockful of Pictures—it’s FREE!
WATCH THEM TURN AROUND!
Notice how every woman prefers the fellow who carries himself with head up. Notice how
the broad-shouldered man always gets their eye. They want a dependable he-man when they
make their choice—one who can protect them. ANI) YOU CAN BE THAT MAN. Remember,
1 do not only promise it, I GUARANTEE IT. Now, don’t put it off a minute. Get going to
new happiness, and real manhood to-day i
“SECRETS OF MUSCULAR STRENGTH.”
I don’t ask you one penny for this great book, the book that has changed the lives of hundreds
of fellows. It’s the finest piece of reading you ever set eyes on. I swear you’ll never blink
an eyelash until you turn the last page. It’s crammed full of pictures of athletes who have
taken the c-ourse, pictures of myself; it’ll put that much kick into you you’ll feel like a mule—
if it doesn’t you’d better roll over—you’re dead. Come on then, take out the old pen or pencil
and sign your name and address on the coupon. But get to it. Do it NOW. To-morrow you
may forget. Remember it’s something for nothing,and no strings attached, no obligation. Grab it!
ALFRED J. BRITON, Dept. H, 82 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
ALFRED J. BRITON, Dept, H.,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Please send me absolutely FREE and without
any obligation on my part whatsoever, a copy of your latest
book, “The Secrets of Muscular Strength—and How to
Acquire It.” I enclose 6d. in stamps for postage.
NAME
FULL ADDRESS
(Please Write or Print Very Plainly).
STATE
w
New Refinements
and Improvements
Graham 'PAIGE sixes and eights,
long distinguished by four speeds forward
(two high speeds —standard gear shift)
now possess refinements and improve'
ments that add both to the beauty and
comfort of the bodies, and the perform'
ance of the chassis. A car is at your
disposal
3 l
ft
Model 615 Fivb'Passenqer Sedan
Craham-Paiee Distributors-
Jfa&eju ( £n*et^Cvnis
5!
&AAAAM
AAl££
AN INVITATION —ln territories where
Graham.Taige mptor cars are not now ade-
quately represented there is an opportunity
for responsible business men, who are in-
terested in the exceptional possibilities this
pew line offers, to obtain the franchise.
MOXON MOTORS, LTD. QUEENSLAND
W. H. LOBER & CO., LTD NEW SOUTH WALES
WALTER WHITBOURN PTY., LTD VICTORIA
MAUGHAN-THIEM MOTOR CO., LTD. . . SOUTH AUSTRALIA
ARTHUR BALES, LTD WEST AUSTRALIA
TWIN-TOP MOTORS PTY., LTD TASMANIA
WRIGHT, STEPHENSON & CO., LTD. NEW ZEALAND
GAAMAM-PAIGE


Under
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1920.
To H.NL
George V
CHAMPAGNE
CMesMicct
wm m
Australasian Agfants
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGNE
Q*aiiesl
Heims
PELLISSOiM
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian A arena—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
6>>e WENTWORTH
Unanimously voted the Coolest Place in Sydney, it is the
choice of the discriminating hostess for the entertaining of her
guests, afternoon or evening.
On Mondays the whole of the Ballroom and Palm Court is
reserved for Bridge Players. Other afternoons, “Lyn” Christie
and his rhythmic symphonists make fly the hours between
3 and 5.30.
A perfect cuisine, exhilarating music, a satin-smooth floor—
what more could you have to make your Dinner or Supper
Party an unqualified success?
Order Wines before 6 p.m. For Tables, Ring 8W1361
52M&eleay St.
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT
{Located within the City Boundary, seven
minutes from G.P.0 .)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 150 Rooms, is now open and
features Two-, Three- and Four-
room Suites, each with Bath; also
Single and Double Rooms. Central
Heating, Running Water and
’Phones installed in each room.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views.
Weekly inclusive tariff,
from £5/5/-
Daily, from £1
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines); Tele-
graphic address: “Fifmac,” Syd-
ney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
SHEER
CRIFFON
SILK
STOCKINGS
The greatest local happening of last week
from a woman’s point of view was the danc-
ing of Anna Pavlova in “The Fairy Doll.”
As the spun-glass creature whose movements
were as fragile and as delicate as any figurine
prisoned in glass, the dancer enfolded the
imagination. The old theory that facile
movement and melting grace are the prero-
gatives of extreme youth is confounded by
the first glittering ripple of her slim feet
as they flow down the stairs into the middle
of the magic toyshop. Although we may
not all be such birds on the wing as Pav-
lova is, she has proved that we still need
not become muscle-bound when vVe slip past
the teens into the twenties and ripen into
the thirties and forties.
How lavish and yet how delicately mingled
are the colors in this ballet! Amethyst and
amber, reds and pinks spill into one another
as the dolls come to life and dance against
the background of the richly-painted Christ-
mas tree, as lightly and as silently
as . the snowflakes that you feel sure are
twirling and difting through the Moscow
night while the English visitors, divested of
their incredible tailorings, sleep behind
snugly-drawn red curtains at an inn close
by. Maybe the whole fantastic fabric was
the happy dr am of the small English girl
excited over the family’s purchase of this
radiant and sparkling doll? The art of
Pavlova makes it possible for those of grim-
mer and more towering years to share the
dream with her.
Dorothy Ilelmrich, who has dashed across
tor two months in her native land between
a concert tour of America and her London
I romenade Concert engagements, gives the
first of her two Sydney recitals to-night in
the Conservatorium. Let no girl or boy
think to conquer London in a season, she
counsels; a determined assault, with the
cash to support, it, is essential. Dorothy
herself, a fine linguist, has sung in every
country of Europe except Spain. The
greatest musical festival to which she has
, bi ,dden was the International Festival
ot Salzburg, at which she sang the Rhapsody
by Arthur Bliss. This has no words, but
pours its rapture out on vowel sounds—do
the nightingale and the lark need words to
carry the ecstasy of their heart to the lis-
tener? Evidently the Sydney girl, for whom
the Rhapsody was written, did the music
justice, for once, after she had sung it in
Holland, a famous bulb expert said it was
hke “the first gold daffodil in early spring.”
Holland, incidentally, provides this singer’s
favorite audiences, and she awards that
country the palm for music appreciation.
In the smaller towns of the U.S.A. she
gave her recitals in the local music club—
the institution that George Portus and
Oliver King are so keen on launching in
N. S. Wales. The artist's management makes
an arrangement with the club ; its members
are saved the expense of a journey to the big
cities to hear a popular artist, and the singer
or musician performs in an intimate and
friendly atmosphere.
Margaret Bruce, another Mosman girl
who by sheer grit and merit held her own
in London, is now the wife of Percy Pitt,
magnate at Covent Garden and the head of
the British .Broadcasting Company. Lute
Drummond is pouring enthusiasm into the
job of grand opera coach, and in between
is accompanist at Covent Garden and trans-
lator of librettos; Beverley Nichols, who
visited Australia with Melba four or five
years ago, Dorothy says, is quite plain and
wholesome under all the sugar-icing and
colored candles. Kirkby Lunn, whose voice
was of the rich and rare variety, is as rich
and. rare of voice as when she visited Aus-
tralia long ago; she lives in St. John’s
Wood and in the music-room of her rambling
cottage trains the tenor and contralto of
to-morrow.
Dynamo,” Eugene O’Neill’s new drama,
was the big theatre draw in America when
Miss Ilelmrich was there. In this, as in
all his works, Eugene shows an almost divine
pity for the brain ice-bound in ignorance,
and exhibits with vivid flashes of insight the
horrors that can occur when the ice is broken
bv the hammer of Fate. Of all the cities
she has visited Paris, in her opinion, gives
the most intense concentration on the drama.
With them the glory is to the play and the
playwright rather than to the player.
i his Letter weaves a wreath for the grave
of still another friend. During the week-
end Cripps Clark, of Goulburn, slipped into
that Every Man’s Land from which no
special correspondent has ever got a com-
munique through. If that were possible this
• v u can imagine no one more suited to the
job than the grazier who in his youth was
journalist and before that followed the sea.
Nothing of comedy or tragedy missed the
blue eyes, and many a note on country
doings from his hand haS helped to give
this page its character. About two years
ago, just as he was about to start out for
the Tirranna races, he had a seizure and was
ill for a few weeks. Then to all appear-
ances he recovered completely. Up till Thurs-
day of last week he was going about as
interested in the daily round as ever, though
he complained of a pain in the cheek. On
Thursday he had a bad night, and on Friday
the doctor ordered him rest and a rigid diet.
He was reading a letter from one of his
sons when he had a seizure, collapsed on. to
a couch and died immediately. A quick
passing such as the old Bulletin contributor
would have wished. A widow, two sons
and a daughter are left sorrowing.
Victor Hood, who has died in Sicily, was
I» ri r Y secretary to the Governors of
N.S.W., Vie., S. Aus. and W.A. between
IJO3 and 1913, and he married the widow
of Alec Mcßean, of N.S.W., last year. He
was a favorite at Court, and shared with
Lord Richard Nevill the delicate duty of
bringing some Australians to the notice of
the King and Queen at Buckingham Palace
garden parties and the like, and protecting
the Royalties from the attentions of others.
He was descended from Nelson through the
latter’s only surviving daughter, and in this
way he came to share with his brother a
Sicilian castle and estate near Messina. Vic-
tor had charm, humor, discretion and loy-
alty. Particularly loyalty. He had all
kinds of loyalties— -to the King and Queen,
to England, to Sicily, to his friends in Aus-
tralia ; and he was faithful to all of them.
Y\ illie Holman’s lady must have wondered
if she had strayed by chance into a nook in
Arcady instead of the Ambassadors the other
day. A group of garlanded young shep-
herdesses met her at the foot of the shallow
steps leading to the palm court and formed
an avenue of gilded and beribboned crooks
by way of which the guest of honor was led
to a rose-massed tea table. Here Dame
Mary Cook, acting as hostess-in-chief for the
Women’s Country Club, speeded the parting
guest (Mrs. Holman is off to Europe and
daughter Portia next week), and handed over
a . grey suede writing-case complete to
initials. Dame Mary eulogised Mrs. Hol-
man’s work, especially- during her husband’s
long reign as Premier, in art, politics and
charity, and the guest, in black georgettes,
judiciously mixed with white, made just as
pretty a speech in reply. The lion amid the
crumpets was the Iv.C. himself, and a flavor
of pre-war literary Sydney was. supplied by
Mrs. L. Harrison (Amy Mack) and her
sister Louise. Mrs. George Irvine, president
of the club, organised the party. Jeanette
Ethelstone was the afternoon’s soprano-in-
chief, and Mrs. Arthur Scrivener, very blue
of eye and charmingly furred and frocked,
was among the afternoon’s hostesses.
Sydney Hospital is fortunate in having
the pleasant lady in this picture as the pre-
sident of its auxiliary. Committees find it
easy to work with Mrs. Alfred Winn, and
the workers who cut out aiid sew and hem
the mountains
of pyjamas
and sheets and
shirts for
which the
Macquarie-
street institu-
tion has a
never-satisfied
appetite bend
as enthusias-
tically over
their machines
as the enter-
tainment orga-
nisers build
up cabaret
and bridge
afternoons.
With prices
what they are,
the housewife
doesn’t live
who would not
blench beforp
a demand for 858 towels and 160 sheets,
not to mention hundreds of pyjamas and
night-dresses and shirts; but the intrepid
"4?®- Winn and her auxiliary merely ask
When would you like delivery?” And so
every year the city’s big hospital is relieved
or a linen bill that would run away with
nearly a thousand pounds. The photo is
from Dayne.
Another early-morning bride who replaced
the conventional wreath and veil with a felt
hat was Kathleen Carroll, of Coogee. She
exchanged her vows with Dr. John Gearin
within St. Pat s on Church Hill. Looking
as though she had blown out of Pavlova’s
Autumn-leaf ballet, the young bride drifted
up the aisle in her golden brown tulles.
These were made tight as to bodice, buoyant
as to skirt. Her hat was pale gold, and her
armlet of yellow roses and wallflowers.
Sister Aileen ’maided in soft sunset pinks,
Dr. Clem Downes best-manned, and bride’s
sister Mrs. S. P. Forth later hostessed a
wedding breakfast at the Australia.
To-night, on the little stage of St. James’s
Hall, in Phillip-street, Eily O’Martin will
sing her way
into Sydney's
heart as the
Bohemian
Girl. This
production is
still another
effort of the
dote rmined
Rita Lancas-
ter to pro-
duce grand
opera with a
local cast.
Miss Lancas-
ter and her
sister M r s.
Larsen have
to their credit
20 years of
work in opera ;
and now with
the good voices
and the quick
wits of Syd-
ney students at their disposal, the two
sisters have been presenting twice or so a year
very good performances of well-known works.
Miss Lancaster conducts the orchestra, while
Mrs. Larsen is responsible for the produc-
tion. The pretty girl in this picture has
both brains and voice, and should prove a
captivating Arline.
John Lane Mullins did an important job at
an early hour last week when he handed
daughter Mary up the aisle of the Mary
Magdalene Church at Rose Bay. Dr. John
Tansey was waiting; and Father Tansey
stood ready to do their bidding. The wed-
ding was a strictly family affair—no fuss,
no bridesmaids, no best man. The wedding
garment was smartly cut in beige crepe
romaine, with a hat of the same coloring
and very snug as to fit. Father made a
genial host at the Rose Bay Golf Club,
assisted by daughters Mrs. Norris and Miss
Lane Mullins.
Dorothy Lidbury Kinross, a pretty bride
from Ryde, exchanged her heather-mixture
name last week for one that doesn’t sound
so straight off the moors, but is just as
Scotch as her own. She became Mrs. Evan
Mitchell Anderson at St. Stephen’s, whisper-
ing her vows from a froth of pink frills
worn with a soft pink summer hat. Linley
Dymock and Essie Hart ’maided in ethereal-
blue taffetas misted over with silk net. At
the reception the bride’s mother hostessed in
a white and leaf-green ensemble.
Another bride who went about this busi-
ness of vow-making in neat but not gaudy
trappings was popular Cassie Comerford,
of Woollahra. On Saturday she became Mrs.
Geoffrey Godfrey, of Bournemouth (Eng.),
in the privacy of the family drawing-room.
A graceful beige lace frock and a hat of
the same subdued shade plus mauve orchids
were the bride’s wear. Sister Enid was the
one attendant; and after Mr. and Mrs.
E. J. Comerford had dispensed the custom-
ary hospitality the new Mrs. Godfrey and
her husband left for England by way of
Melbourne. He is the youngest son of Sir
Dan Godfrey, of Bournemouth.
As good as a walk amid the green trees
on the hills around Mittdgong or a week-
end by the sea was the show of the Aus-
tralian Water-color Institute just ended in
the Education Gallery. Perhaps it was a
yearning for the same green trees that made
this Letter turn such a glad eye on the work
of that great tree-lover G. K. Townshond.
Harold Herbert’s “Farm” was another whiff
from beyond the city walls ; a lung full of
ozone came off Albert Collins’s “A Breezy
Day at Huskisson”; from Bradley’s Head,
the harbor, a blue lotus, swooned in the sun-
light on a hypnotising Minns canvas; South
Head, realism softened by the romance of
Fullwood’s brush, beckoned to wide adven-
ture ; and there was some sheer magic with
Fred Deist’s signature under it.
G. K. Townshend, by the way, has been
chosen to illustrate the Vance Palmer serial
which will follow the great £5OO prize-
winner, ‘The Quartermaster,” through the
story pages of The Bulletin.
There are nine clubs within the University
Sports Union, but they all joined forces in
one ball the other night, which proves that
jazz is. the great leveller. A missing-word
competition kept the piuscles of the crick-
eters supple in between dance turns
Knight MacCallum and his lady were the
honored guests of the evening, she a study
in silver and lilac. President-of-the-Union
Vernon Treatt surrounded a great party
with hospitality. Among his guests was Pro-
fessor Wallace, whose reading of Macbeth,
they say, would make even Mackennal’s
statue of Shakspeare come to life. Secretary-
of-the-Union Charles Hill, looking as non-
committal as a fountain-pen with the cap on,
was another of Mr. Tfeatt’s guests. Near bj
sat the Union’s treasurer, G. V. Portus, who,
with Mrs. Portus, entertained a group of
weighty intellects. All the implements of
sport were represented in the decorations, a
flighty note being given by bunches of bal-
loons and colored streamers. The three pretty
Coyle girls were woven into the night’s pat-
tern.' Mabelle Markell was one of the even-
ing’s good-lookers and Delia Coppola mixed
pink lace and blue moire satisfactorily.
The social butterfly splashed her wings
with more than usual color for the ball in
aid of the Tresillian Homes at the Ambas-
sadors last week. This was held in con-
junction with the Firemen’s Art Union, and
what with the Government subsidy and
three hundred or more dancers a pretty
little cheque will be passed on. Mungo
MacCallum’s lady was the president, and
was dignity and good temper in black velvets
contrasted with red roses. Another black
frocker of note was Mrs. W. U. Maundrell;
Mrs. Warwick Fairfax, in a pale pink souffle,
suggested a sugar-plum fairy; a pretty
Stephen girl was in flaming georgettes that
suggested business connected with His
Majesty’s mails. Treasurer Miss Friend
wore an air of calculation and softly draped
black lace.
The Fire Queen’s Competition- which is
being run in conjunction with the Firemen’s
Art Union has already netted £41,289 for
the hospitals on its list. As every pound
raised is backed by another from the Govern-
ment there is already much joy in the hearts
of committees. Last Friday . too the city was
in a state of siege. Surrounded at every vant-
age point by uncompromising assailants, there
was nothing for it but to disgorge its silver.
The flower farm which is to provide con-
genial occupation for many of our deaf
and dumb brothers and sisters will soon
materialise, judging by the success of the first
Flower-farm dance. This filled the Ambassa-
dors one night last week, and as a result of
a flower-basket competition the decorations
of the tables claimed equal recognition
with the frocking. Grace Jewell, with a basket
of autumn splendor plucked from a mountain
garden, won the first prize, which means an
aeroplane flight across the harbor. Scarlet
slippers and a frock of white moire fashioned
in the princess style were worn by the prize-
winner ; and president Mrs. Fred Lindsay,
who plucked second place with a basket of
roses, wore a commendable mixture of black
and palest pink georgette. Clare Davis and
Miriam McCoy were the efficient secretaries,
and little Elsie Prince popped in to judge
the tables.
The Journalists’ Ball threatens to be an
even greater success than the unholy crush
it was last year. Half the city w r anted to
come to the first junketing, and furious last-
minute efforts to sub-edit the booking-list
ended in many scribes having to curtail their
parties because hordes who never see a pen:
except at a cattle show had determined to
attend the revels. This year the sale of
tickets will be limited. A motor drive on
May 26 and a bridge afternoon at David
Jones’s on June 14 are preliminary money-
raisers.
The Autumn Ball organised by J. F.
Anderson to aid the building fund of St.
Ann’s Church in North Bondi was a seventh
wave of success—the dear old baize collec-
tion-plate is a mere also-ran these days. Bondi
must have been bankrupt of surf sirens and
sheiks on the night of the flutter, for the
Wentworth was crowded with dancers. Yel-
low and brown chrysanthemums and the blaze
of marigolds ran an autumn flame around
the ballroom; but spring was on the floor
when the debs., like white-petalled flowers,
fluttered up for presentation to the president
of the dance, Mrs. Arthur McNiven. This
handsome lady wore black and silver, the
uneven panels of the skirt scrolled in rose red.
Those nice girls the Kincoppa] Revellers
were responsible for a dance at the Ambas-
sadors in aid of the building fund for the
Deaf and Dumb and the Blind Children’s
School. A guessing competition, the prizes
hand-wrought brooches given by Miss Pro-
theroe, was an extra asset-builder. Con-
stance Fewtrell was the secretary, and
Sadie Beardsmore and Alice Brooker the
treasurers of the gaiety. Norah Frost, organ-
ising secretary for the institution, wore rose
velvets splashed with silver.
An allowance of £l5OO a year was the
trifling comfort one Sydney society woman
was receiving when she decided that it was
insufficient; her husband, Leslie William
Friend, she says, owns, besides station pro-
perties in Scone, holdings in the Singleton
and Warialda districts, and his income is
£20,000. He for his part declared that it
did not exceed £2500. Between the lawyers
and the twain who were one an arrange-
ment was come to. At the moment this and
other recent divorce settlements were in
mind an inquiry reached this Letter from
an anxious mother who wonders what career
holds the most lucrative opportunities for
a bright girl of 18. This Letter, though a
Feminist and a Modernist, still can’t see any-
thing better than matrimony.


ẃ
“ Suburban ”
Afforestation
Every person who has read or has been told
about afforestation—whether he has invested
or not—should send for particulars now of
A.N.Z.I.L.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND
THRIFT BONDS.
gssrxgrs
scientific and properly-conducted planting for profit yet offered.
Afforestation and Flax—Plus Interest and Insurance.
Investigate!—To do so is to INVEST.
AUSTRALIAN & NEW ZEALAND INVESTMENTS, LTD.,
17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
ŵ
Food
■A-281
Reed. T&adx Mark.
Owing to constant re-
commendation and use by
medical men, and because
it is so easily digested,
Benger’s has become known
as “ the safe P'ood ” for In-
fants, Invalids and the Aged.
Send for Bengers Booklet, pod free.
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.,
350, George Street, SYDNEY.
ẁ
Ike hand that holds
the" VENUS"
4am the World
ihe first rough suggestion—the skilful
and accurate working out, the sharp
detailed drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
PKNfnf™ e £°J rt l. cal !, f u or .the use of VENUS
VENUS ,he El'Uncil' ® m the
ẃ
17 B l«rh le^ ad Degrees 68-9 H sd. each • 4/9 per dozen. Super Copving (Medium & Hard) 6ri
each - 5/9 per dozen. Venus Copying (Medium & Hard) 4d. each - 3/9 £rdozen. ®
i IffifSlfKS.? 1 ‘ THE BULLE ™” takes your fancv, Write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
w
Yes? Then you must b
a slender Sway Baci
Type.
A slim, graceful, girlisl
figure with a deep in
curve at the back-waist
which requires a fault
lessly fitting foundation
garment to preserve th«
lines of youth.
Make This Test.
Take your own measure
ments carefully over th<
singlet. Compare wit!
these specimen groups
Should your figure cor
respond with any oi
these sets, you may weai
Berlei Corselette 6054.
Planned in pink, silk-
striped broche with
elastic sections for free-
dom and comfort. Light
boning ensures a straight
line at abdomen. Four
suspenders. Sizes 30-
38 inches.
Every Berlei foundation
is jully guaranteed
ẅ
LIVE IN SYDNEY!
AN opportunity exists at present for a number of SKILLED Timber
Machinists, Sawyers, Joiners, etc., to obtain permanent work. You
may have been thinking for years of settling in Sydney. "Now is your
chance. > Award wages, with benefits of Child Endowment and liberal
Workers Compensation Insurance, etc. Permanent work for the right men.
Splendid Climate and good conditions generally. Apply by letter enclosing
copies of references and full particulars of experience to
F. H. CORKE, 67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
# ln Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
-Legal Notice.
yO ALEXANDER McINTOSH late of
Hobart in Tasmania but whose where-
abouts are now unknown.
WHEREAS WINIFRED McINTOSH of
Hobart m Tasmania at present residing at
Bowmore Street Oakleigh Victoria claiming
to have been . lawfully married to you has
filed her petition for Dissolution of the said
Marriage in the Supreme Court of Tasmania
on the ground of desertion for two years
and upwards NOW you are hereby notified
that unless within twenty-two days from
the date of publication hereof you enter an
appearance in this Court at its Registry
Macquarie Street Hobart in Tasmania the
said Court will proceed to hear the said
charges and to pronounce sentence therein
your absence notwithstanding.
DATED at Hobart aforesaid this twenty-
second day of April one thousand nine hun-
dred and twenty-nine.
C. S. SIMMONS,
Clerk of the Court
MURDOCH, CUTHBERT & CLARKE,
of 135 Macquarie Street, Hobart, aforesaid
Proctors for the Petitioner.
Missing Friends.
the brother of JAMES (sometimes
i a Tl led , E £ N EST) GRIFFIN, station
hand, late of Strathdarr station, Longreach
who died at Longreach on 14th July 1928’
please communicate with the LOCAL
DEPUTY PUBLIC CURATOR, Rock-
hampton.


With
Maws on l
tc the Antarctic
y *
///>
- —■■
$
63i
ANTARCTIC exploration
still thrills the world, for
it demands courage and
real stamina of those who
brave its hardships. Profiting by his experience with
Shackleton and the previous Australian expedition to
the South Pole, Sir Douglas Mawson, who this year will
lead the Australian Government Expedition to the
Antarctic, is leaving nothing to chance.
“The successful work of an expedition,” he says, de-
pends on the health of the men who form its members,
and good and suitable food reduces to a minimum the
danger of scurvy which has marred many polar enter-
prises.” In provisioning The Discovery with the sup-
plies upon which the fitness and lives of his men will
depend for two hard years on the ice, Sir Douglas has
selected Crosse & Blackwell’s foods from all others, as
those in which he can place absolute confidence.
In his choice Sir Douglas Mawson has confirmed the
judgment of Commander Byrd, whose expedition to
the Ross Sea has for many months enjoyed Crosse &
Blackwell’s foods. He has confirmed the choice of a
million careful housewives, too.
Famous for two hundred years, Crosse & Blackwell’s
foods still maintain the old-time standards of quality and
puritv. Prepared in spotless kitchens, from the finest
ingredients, they are at once wholesome and delicious.
You will find Crosse & Blackwell’s foods at vour grocers
—identical in quality with those chosen by Mawson, by
Byrd and by knowing chefs and housewives the world
over. Serve them regularly on your table and you will
experience new delights each day.
When
Good Food
means everything
WAY back in 1845, when Sir-
John Franklin undertook an
expedition to the North Pole, there
was no precedent from which to
draw experience. Consequently
every man of Sir John’s party
perished of scurvy. There was
plenty of food, but it was not of
the right kind. Since then science
has shown us how to select foods
of definite dietetic value. No longer
is it necessary for us to experi-
ment, but no matter whether we
are providing for an Antarctic ex-
pedition or for the family table it
must still be remembered that dan-
ger—just as tragic in the long run
—lies in wait for those who do not
discriminate in the choice of foods.
Crosse & Blackwell
famous for quality
AH good grocers sell Crosse &
Blackwell’s famous products.
Among the many delicious varie-
ties you will find—
POTTED MEATS, SOUPS, FISH,
FISH PASTES, SAUCES,
PICKLES, CHUTNEY, ES-
SENCES, CALVES' FEET
JELLY, OLIVES, CAPERS, PUD-
JJINGS, JAMS, MARMALADE,
and a host of other
good things.
Templing
dishes for
delightful medU*
(tosse
and
Blackwell
You will enjoy
C. & B. —good /ooi
ft t its best.
SUPPLIERS OF GOOD FOODS FOR TWO HUNDRED YEARS
Banish Dandruff
This New Way
Dandruff is caused by tiny germs, and baldness is a
disease originally associated with dandruff. Both are
curable if dealt with in time. Here is the method:
Get some Vi-glo (this is better than bay rum tonics)
and rub it well into the scalp night and morning,
with fingers kept quite stiff. This antiseptic-
stimulant cleans away every trace of dandruff like
magic, and invigorates the blood vessels which feed
the hair. Vi-glo is the standard preparation usually
recommended by specialists and better-class chemists
to those requesting a really effective dandruff
cure and hair grower. It is a clean, elegant pre-
paration that does not soil linen, and gives every
satisfaction even in cases of premature greyness.
Vf all Chemists or Vi-Glorient Company, ICembla
Building, Margaret Street, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
BRIT!
SH
Perfection
F> ITSK RUBBER
For Sale.
C'OR SALE. —YARWTJN, six miles from
railway, post office and school. The
selection is Agricultural Farm, portion 25,
area 1100 acres, adjoining Mt. Lareombe.
Freehold on the east and Fairview on the
south, all fenced and a very good grassed
paddock. The Crown price is 10/- per acre,
half of which has been paid, leaving a
balance of £275 to make it freehold and 10
years to pay it. I will take £9OO.
MRS. K. FLYNN,
Yarwun, N.C. Line, Q.
SEEL
ILL
7
Ck
(\.n\j Chcwiists
yOV
rs
c
The Freely-Lathering
Cuticura Shaving Stick
Insures a clean, refreshing shave
without the slightest irritation, even
when shaving twice daily. Containing
the medicinal and antiseptic proper-
ties of Cuticura, it enables tender-faced
men to shave in comfort and leaves
the skin softened and refreshed, and
free from any tense, dry feeling.
Soap Is., Talcum 15.3 d.. Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
FOR ALL SPORT
BUY
THE SPORTING GLOBE
The Leading Australian Authority with the largest
staff of Sporting Experts and Special Representatives
in all States. The staff includes: —
“MUSKET” The Turf
“BAIL” Cricket
W. S. SHARLAND .......... Football
PAT O’HARA WOOD ... Tennis
J. J. MAHER Cycling
J. M. DILLON Golf
A. L. DOBBIE Rowing
TOM MORLEY Coursing
MAURIE COLLINS Bowls
H. C. BROOKE v Yachting
New South Wales edition available —
every Thursday, price 3d.
PERCY MARKS,
■JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
m
m
m
m
In Days of Old
White hair was
all the vogue.
In modern days
grey or white
hair is consid-
ered a sign of
appr caching
age.
It is NOT “THE,
THING.”
All traces of Grey can readily be removed
by an application of
Dr. Allen’s (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
Sold at all Chemists and Stores.
Harmless, easy
to apply, can-
not be detected
Australian Agents:
DUERDIN AND
SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street,
Melbourne.
w
“THE AGE ”
Established 1854*
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
You do not leave it to eliance in choosing a
newspaper for your advertising campaigns. You
require evidence of its stability and inquire
fully into its claims for preference before
entrusting it with your sales message.
No discriminate buyer of newspaper space can
afford to overlook
“THE AGE”
when contemplating future allocations for
Victoria.
Make your fh'st preference “THE AGE,” and
you will be convinced that in choosing this
medium to broadcast your sales message
throughout the State your choice lias been
fully justified.
“The Age” CIRCULATES in the
homes and offices of 123,533 sub-
scribers daily, and publishes over ONE
MILLION Advertisements annually.
hates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.


£
II
7M
%
W,
m
mm
WHIP
m
HSDD-
raM*
ir
KttpW
m
w-a
<w>
c
2*
as
m
Li
The first - class return fare
from Sydney costs only £65.
BEAUTIFUL CEYLON
S ROM Colombo,. the wealth
and variety of scenic and
historic interest that have
made Ceylon famous is quickly ac-
cessible The hill capital of Kandy;
ruined jungle cities, like Anurad-
hapura, once the home of teeming
millions; the great outlaw strong-
hold, perched on the Sigiriya Rock;
Nuwara Eliya in the mountains;
Mt. Lavinia on the coast. And
to reach Colombo, a glorious sea
trip in a luxurious Orient liner.
ORIENT
LI NE
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE DESERT SONG
ROYAL: PAVLOVA
CRITERION: PIGS
PALACE: NO. 17
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Direction E. J. CARROLL.
SATURDAY, MAY 18 at 8,
ALSO
MAY 21, 23 and 25.
“One of the Greatest Pianists of the World, a
successor to Paderewski and equal of Rachmaninoff.”
—San Francisco Call.
E. J. CARROLL
has the honor to present, for the
FIRST TIME IN AUSTRALIA,
BRAILOWSKY
BRAILOWSKY
BRAILOWSKY
the great Russian pianist.
“A pianist of the very first-class, without any
qualification whatever.” —London Morning Post.
Reserved seats: 10/- and 7/6. Unreserved: 5/- and
3/- plus tax. Box plans at Nicholsons, May 13.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
* MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
THE STUDENT PRINCE.
ROYAL:
THIS YEAR OF GRACE.
ING ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT,
NELLIE STEWART in
TRILBY.
IUEW COMEDY THEATRE,
" MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT,
YOUNG WOODLEY.
Amusements.
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
LOIS WILSON in
SALLY’S SHOULDERS.
AND
BRIAN AHERNE in
UNDERGROUND.
•V
t»A
m 3
'V
Queen
Snap t
After dinner
would ruin the
ZflS fine aroma and stimu-
lus that Coffee brings as
the finishing touch of
Dinner by serving it in
cups less delicate than its
own fragrance? It is in-
dispensable that the service
should be worthy of the
coffee: a Shelley Coffee
Service deserves the best
that Mocha boasts.
SK TO SEE THE LATEST
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
* China
Nursery Ware
L/ Lucie Attweu
& Hilda Cowham
Dome stic Ware
Jelly Moulds
in CASE os any difficulty in obtaining
.CLARENCE ST.
DffiH
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
At the Naval and Military Ball each
alcove in the Trocadero dance-hall was trans-
formed into a .bell-tent, and there were flags
galore and a hand-grenade that burst and
cast a rainbow of balloons about the room.
The Royal Standard marked the v--r.
retreat, and a guard-room was stacked with
arms and accoutrements. The balcony was
curtained with flags, and binnacles and navi-
gation lights did their bit. Lady Goodwin
wore platinium-grey satin with pointed
drapes of silk muslin and a light beading of
steel. Crimson roses were handed to her by
Mrs. J. 11. Cannan, and General and Mrs.
Cannan were host and hostess. Seven debs,
were presented to their Exes.—Bebe Noakes,
Muriel Wills, Kathleen Searle, Constance
Spencer, Dorothy Gardner, Louie Gataker
and Leila Mackenzie. The buds wore very
pretty frocks, and each carried an early-Vic-
torian posy of roses in a silver holder. Mrs.
Cannan’s pink mariette was embossed in sil-
ver ; Mrs. Roger Hartigan chose daffodil; Mrs.
George Mocatta, marine blue; Mrs. I. R.
Beamish, cameo-pink; Nora Halford was in
green and silver and Doris O’Mahony in
biscuit silk lace.
In the throng were the Chief Justice and
Mrs. Blair, Colonel Cameron, Captain Seeley,
Captain and Mrs. F. Ryder, Colonel and Mrs.
F. A. Hughes and Colonel and Mrs. Ray
Stanley.
Lady Goodwin went to the party held at
Mrs. W. Grave’s home at Cromer, Toowong,
for the benefit of the Limbless Soldiers’ Asso-
ciation. The garden was dressed up in flags,
and bowls of roses decked the reception-
rooms. Bridge and mah-jongg tables enticed
many to the verandahs, Mrs Latimer winning
the bridge prize, and Mrs Heaslop the mah
jongg. The Mayoress, the Cowley lady,
Alderman and Mrs. Watson, Mrs. Grave and
Mrs. Maxwell received her Ex., and Miss N.
Money presented her with a bunch of roses
and autumn leaves. There was a musical
and elocution programme, to which Lottie
Richter was one of the contributors, and
sweets and flowers were sold.
The new building at Somerville House was
gaily decked with flags when Sir John Good-
win opened it for the Brisbane High School
Girls. Misses .Tarrett and Harker received
the guests, and a guard of honor was formed
by Girl Guides. A bouquet of yellow chry-
santhemums and jonquils was handed to
Lady Goodwin, and there was a drill dis-
play, followed by tennis and net-ball matches
and symbolic dances.
Olive Cannan, who is marrying Burton
Withy, has been feted at many parties. Nan
North gave one for her at Indooroopilly amid
bronze and gold chrysanthemums, and Alice
Hawthorn staged another at Ashgrove. Nell
Kirwan spread the traycloth at New Farm
in a setting of scarlet geraniums and brown
chrysanthemums.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
When the news of the death of Lady
O’Grady was announced in Hobart, all sports
and _ other fixtures were postponed, and a
service of the united churches was held in
the Town Hall in the evening.
The lass with
the chaplet and
the flowing
locks is Lynda
Sheen, a vio-
linist who has
returned t o
Hobart to give
the land of her
birth the bene-
fit of her
talents. At a
very early
stage she
appeared a t
concerts, play-
in g Bach,
Beethoven and
Tschaikowsky.
Then she
studied under
Joseph Kret-
schmann in
Sydney, and,
finally, i n
England under the Austrian maestro Hans
Wesley at the Royal Academy of Music.
Now she returns as leader of the orchestra
at His Majesty’s Theatre.
Flood relief functions are still being
organised—the necessity for funds does not
subside as quickly as the waters did, unfor-
tunately. Mrs. C. J. Eady, Mrs. E. A. Pea-
cock and a crowd of co-operators were re-
sponsible for a bridge and mah-jongg party
at the Continental, where there were 120
tables. Close on £lOO was added to the
fund as a consequence. The sale of sweets,
undertaken by a throng of young things in
pretty frocks, helped to swell the funds.
Margaret O’Grady was among the card-
players.
Our Repertory Society (which, by the
way, is winning a lot of new subscribers this
season) departed from strict Repertory rules
by producing Somerset Maugham’s rather
witty and somewhat sultry comedy, “Home
and Beauty.” It went with a swing all
through. Patty Clarke scored a success in
the role of Victoria, and Mrs. Shadforth
enjoyed herself as the comic cook. His Ex.
and party attended the first performance,
the proceeds of which went to the flood relief
funds.
The Holman-Bain wedding did something
to divert Launcestonians' thoughts from the
flood. Mollie, pretty and popular, only chick
of the J. A. Bains, of Trevallyn, was the
bride, and Dr. W. Holman, South Camber-
well (Vic.), the bridegroom. The wedding
garment was of shell-pink chiffon embroidered
in gold thread in an all-over design. The
bodice, sleeveless and pointed at the waist,
pouched slightly over a full-flared skirt in
deep scallops, long at the back, with an
upward lift to the front. The pink tulle
veil was bound close to the head with a
lattice of pink pearls, and orange buds fell
in billows to form a long train. The ’maids
were Noel Baird and two mites, Anne Mcln-
tyre and Betty Druce, in. apple-green crepe
ninon, the infants in Kate Greenaway frocks
with chaplets of apple blossom. The elder
girl’s veil was of apple-green tulle, held in
place by a wreath of green velvet leaves. The
bride’s parents entertained about 200 guests
at the Masonic Hall afterwards.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
For a week our Uni. has been bathed in
limelight. The gods of the weather smiled
their approval upon the new buildings by
offering a perfect autumn afternoon for the
laying of foundation-stones. For the hun-
dreds of spectators who did not have passes
to the reserved enclosure there were raised
platforms, and bits of the building proved
good vantage points. The Moulden lady,
whose all-cream ensemble was an effective
contrast with the bright robes of the profs.,
made a speech and declared the stone of the
Guild Hall truly laid. The Premier waved
a trowel over the Winthrop buildings. John
Hackett, who accompanied his mother from
Adelaide for the ceremony, delighted the
assembly with his oratory. Our Uni. owes
much to the late Winthrop Hackett and his
lady.
A Helen Ogden camera caught this like-
ness of Rita
Human, who
is on the high
seas bound for
the British
Isles and Eu-
rope. Her
tour, to last
about six
months, will
be mainly de-
voted to plea-
sure, but she
will keep an
eye open for
choice prints
and ar ter aft
work. With her
partner, Doro-
thy Ewing,
Miss Human
runs the well-
known Book-
Lovers’ Lib-
rary and Art
Shop m Perth. She received an excellent
training from Mrs. Zabel, who founded the
Perth Book Lovers and since has taken over
the Roycroft in Sydney.
The students excelled themselves this year
with the mock ceremony preceding gradua-
tion. There were a number of new songs, a
talkie burlesque, a satire, “Centenaryitis,”
and a muscular group of male ballet dancers
from the “Matador, Australia’s Blunder
Theatre.” Among those who received diplo-
mas was Pro-Chancellor Cecil Andrews, who
resigns this year. He’s now a D.Litt. Other
affairs of interest to the gay undergrads,
were the Dramatic Society’s two-night effort,
“The Whole Town’s Talking,” a procession,
a mock court, a launch picnic and a dance
in Government House ballroom.
Victoria’s Governor, Lord Somers, was
the guest of Lady Campion during his one
day’s stay in our city. He arrived by
train in the morning and left late in the
afternoon by the Comorin. Other travel-
lers were Frank Moulden and his lady’s
son, John Hackett, who will study at Oxford.
The Women’s Service Guild headquarters,
previously the Green Room Club, were
opened by Mayor Franklin. The furniture
is sumptuous and the position at the top of
the high building ideal. Mrs. Joyner took
the chair, and in her speech welcomed Mrs.
Bennett, of Sydney, who will accompany
Mrs. Rischbieth and other delegates to the
International Suffrage Alliance Congress in
Berlin.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
A morning reception to the triennial con-
vention of the H.A.C.B.S. was given by
Mayor and Mayoress Bonython in the re-
ception-room at the Town Hall. It was a
gathering at which men predominated, and
the Irish sense of humor was tickled by the
apt little speech of the Mayoress at its con-
clusion.
Dancing is still very dead except in the
interests of charity. Apart from that the
only two functions booked to date are a fare-
well'to pretty Nancy Muecke, who shortly
weds a Sydney man, given by eight of her
girl friends, on May 14, and a dance to he
given by eight young matrons on May 31,
both at the Maison de Danse, Glenelg. This
location seems to be chosen to give the town
folk a run for their money.
There was a good attendance at the
Port Adelaide R. C. meeting at Cheltenham.
The chairman, Dr. A. V. Benson, and his
wife, entertained as usual. There was a
deadly sameness about the costumes —tail-
ored coats and felt hats have become a uni-
form.
The Wesley Lathleans’ young son John,
and Dorothy, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
W. 11. Williams, of Malvern, were married
recently, an event of the same week being
the wedding of Dr. H. R. R. Hancock to
Joan, youngest daughter of Dr. and Mrs.
J. W. Yeatman, at ,St. Peter’s College Chapel.
The Alliance Franeaise Club presented a
French comedy at the A.N.A. Hall one night
last week, and as supper was not included
on the programme the good attendance can
he attributed to our love of culture. Lady
Hore-Rutliven and the Mayoress were pre-
sent. Helen Wimble produced the comedy.
Male characters were taken by girls; and
in these days of shingles and boyish outlines
they put it over very well.
Before leaving for London the Duncan
Hugheses gave a farewell reception at the
Liberal Hall to the members and wives of
the Boothby district committee. Aileen New-
lyn and Charlotte Grivell sang, and a con-
jurer featured on the programme.


■ I
mmm
■a
m
' :
B
1 i
m
.'•.wwi
■ ** *j
i
■— ; ■
'■7 ' ' ■'S' N 'Wv- ; $j
! '
•*
asA*
wmtmm.
i* v.H|
*
n p
IHPUU
lap
l
MANANA —the most overworked word in sunny Spain—pronounced
with a “y” and meaning to-morrow —when urgent work will be
commenced in earnest; manana—the day that never dawns!
Most of us put off till to-morrow what should be done to-day. Probably
you are no exception, and though you have long ago realised the advan-
tages that Delco Light would bring to your home, the matter of deciding
to instal a plant still remains for - -manana!
Don’t delay any longer. Already the days
are growing shorter and the benefits of Delco
Light become more apparent every hour.
Delco Light will not only provide modern
electric light for the whole house. It will give
you electric power too —power for a vacuum
cleaner—for an electric iron—for water
supply and for Frigidaire Permanent
Refrigeration.
Delco Light is self-contained, easy to instal,
dependable and economical. In thousands
of homes Delco Light is saving labour every
day and shedding brightness every night.
There are 20 different models and one of
them is well suited to your needs.
Fill in the coupon to-day NO W —■
manana is the day that never dawns.
ŵ
DISTRIBUTORS:
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 307-15 Kent Street, Sydney.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 380-82 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 172-74 Pulteney Street, Adelaide.
STEWART & MACLEAN PTY., LTD., 104 George Street, Launceston.
DELCO - LIGHT
PRODUCT OF GENERAL MOTORS.


/mms fmtmtf, Mav'
jiffiy
Sv/Z
t±±
qiiudm
u
K
To meet you as you enter
Adelaide; to make your stay
one of unlimited pleasure;
to give the fullest measure of
“Service,” the Grosvenor is
the best situated and finest
equipped hotel in Adelaide.
3'GROSVENOR
r cJdelaides Finest Unlicensed JioteL
Opp. Railway Sin.. North Terrace.
21.
EARN ALL YOU CAN—
SAVE ALL YOU CAN—GIVE ALL YOU CAN
Such was the good advice of John Wesley. You are, of course, entitled
to earn all you can, and no doubt are bending all your energies in that
direction.
Nevertheless, what you save will, in the long run, probably count for
more than what you earn.
Use the easy saving plan. Open a Commonwealth Savings Account,
and be faithful to it, for the sake of your future needs and that you
may be able to give when it is your duty to give.
€bmmonwcaltl) Savmos Bank of Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
ŵ
IN TIME.
BY C.R.E. CHILDERS.
RAIN, rain, rain! Would it never cease?
For six weeks it had descended upon a
drenched world; not the colossal deluge
which accompanies the thunderstorms occur-
ring at the beginning and end of the wet sea-
son, but the steady, soaking, mid-monsoonal
downpour. Occasionally there would be a lull
for perhaps half an hour or. even a little
longer; then it would start again in a fashion
which seemed to suggest that it had gathered
fresh strength in the interim. Towards the
end of such a lull its recommencement would
be heralded from the south-west by the roar
it made as it beat upon the jungle foliage.
The ground was a morass and the creeks
were filled to their banks with rushing,
yellow, silt-laden water.
It was past mid-afternoon when four
figures came squelching along a narrow path
hemmed in by thick jungle on either side:
a white man clad in the conventional dress
of the tropics—khaki shirt, shorts and topee,
though there was little need for the topee
in this weather —followed by three Burmans ;
a soaked, cheerless quartette covered to their
knees with mud. A turn in the path brought
them in sight of a long vista of paddy fields,
at the far end of which the waving cocoa nut
palms and banana trees of a village could
be dimly discerned through the haze of rain.
“Youk byi, hai”—we have arrived. A grunt
from the white man and assenting murmurs
from the other natives supported the speaker.
Threading their way along the narrow
ridges which divide the sections of the rice
fields, the party arrived at the village-gate
ten minutes later. As they passed through,
the pi dogs barked their ever-ready challenge,
and occupants of the huts which bordered
both sides of the only thoroughfare, called an
occasional greeting—the villagers liked John
Emerson, the white man; he treated them
kindly.
Some three hundred yards from the gate
at the opposite end of the village, the ground
from all sides sloped up to a conical emin-
ence, on the crest of which stood a European
bungalow surrounded by mango and tamarind
trees. A stake palisade ran round the foot
of the hill on three sides, forming a large
compound. The boundary on the fourth side
was a sandy creek, on whose banks lay a
prolific vegetable garden which kept Emerson
well supplied. In the lower part of the
compound on the side nearest the village
were “boys’ ” quarters and two large go-
downs for stores and rice. The bungalow, a
solid affair built entirely of teak, stood fifteen
feet off the ground, and underneath -was a
small 'office. Such was the jungle head-
quarters occupied by Emerson as forest man-
ager of a firm which extracted teak from
the neighboring hills. A large herd of trained
elephants was employed to drag the teak
logs to the main creeks, whose flood waters
carried them on their long journey to the
Irrawaddy.
For a week in each month of the working
season Emerson lived in this bungalow; dur-
ing the remaining three weeks he toured
among the hills where the elephant camps
were situated, and supervised the work of his
native overseers.
A small knot of men, headed by his Bur-
mese clerk, had gathered to receive him out-
side the bungalow.
“Things all right, Moung Thit?” he asked
—it was a pleasure to speak in his own
language again.
“Yes, sir,” replied the clerk, who was
inordinately proud of his curiously accented
English. “But the durioan’s youngest daugh-
ter died last night.”
Emerson murmured a few sympathetic
words to the durwan, who grinned cheerfully
in reply, seemingly not at all upset by the
tragedy. After all, it was a female —had
one of his sons died he would have been less
cheerful.
“And a tiger has been taking cattle from
the village during the nights lately,” con-
tinued the clerk. “Berhaps you will sit up
for it?”
“It may take all the cattle it wants,”
returned Emerson decidedly. “I would not
sit up .in this weather for the largest tiger
in the country. Has the mail-runner
arrived?”
“No, sir; he may be in to-morrow morn-
ing, but the rivers and creeks are high and
he will probably be delayed.”
Seeing one of his boys bearing two buckets
of steaming water towards the bungalow,
Emerson dismissed tlie clerk and ascended to
the verandah, where another boy removed
his sodden puttees and boots. After a hot
bath and change of clothing he emerged again
on to the verandah, and, putting a record
on his gramophone, sat smoking in a com-
fortable deck-chair.
Presently the rain slackened in force, and
he heard the bells of his baggage elephants
as they approached through the village.
Arrived at the bungalow they were quickly
unloaded by his boys and followers, and,
before being taken off to be fettered and
loosed in the neighboring jungle, were ridden
up one by one to the foot of the steps, where
Emerson gave each animal a large ball of'
tamarind and salt. This was a ceremony
religiously adhered to, for he liked elephants
and it brought him on friendly terms with
his travellers; an elephant invariably shows
affection for the man who feeds it with
tamarind.
As the daylight faded, swarms of fireflies
came flitting round the bungalow, and the
frogs and crickets commenced their nightly
chorus. Emerson lay in his long deck-chair
on the verandah in a restlessly meditative
“Do you wish to stay here with me he asked. ‘Lord, it is as you wish , the girl
answered.”
frame of mind. He had come to dread these
solitary interminable evenings.
During the. previous year he had spent
seven months’ leave at his home in Aus-
tralia. Before half the time had expired
lie found himself deeply in love with a girl
whom he had met shortly after his arrival.
They went everywhere together, and as the
months passed he became more and more con-
vinced that life without her would be im-
possible. H'e was quite certain that she
cared for him, and never considered the
possibility that his suit might be rejected.
When finally he proposed, her refusal came,
an unexpected shock.
“No, John, really it is no good,” she said
gently, when he tried to plead with her. “I
like you immensely and have loved the time
we have had together, but I do not think
I care for you as a girl ought to care for
the man she marries. I am sure I could
never make you happy if we did marry. I
think it is a matter of temperament. The
man I marry should dominate me, and you
do not.”
Emerson felt bewildered and hurt. They
did not quarrel, but agreed not to see or
write to one another again. He returned
to Burma mentally vowing that he would
forget her altogether, but he found that his
outlook on life seemed altogether changed.
Before his leave he had been in charge of
another of his company’s forests in a differ-
ent part of the. country. The life was
rather lonely, but he had been happy. The
monsoon season from June till October was
certainly very uncomfortable, but the four
months of cold weather were like a glorified
picnic. In the hot weather work was closed
down, for elephants cannot work in that
season, and he would enjoy a holiday in the
hills, playing golf and tennis, and riding and
dancing with the gay, pleasure-seeking crowd
that finds its way to the Indian hill-stations
in the summer months. He had loved it all
then, but now the loneliness of the jungle
tried him as it never had done before. Was
it worth it, he asked himself repeatedly—
was it worth wasting the best years of his
life among the natives in these out-of-the-
way places?
Half an hour later he was still gloomily
ruminating when his head boy announced
dinner. The solitary meal over, he lit a
cheroot and returned to the verandah, sit-
ting well away from the petrol lamp. It
was impossible to read, for a swarm of flying
insects buzzed round the light; in any case,
he did not feel like reading. Most of his boys
and mahouts would be in the village cele-
brating their return with much country
liquor. There would be reports of “fever”
in the morning, accompanied by requests for
aspirin.
An hour passed by. He mixed himself a
half-peg and decided to turn in after drink-
ing it, when there came from the foot of the
steps the sound of a cough, followed by a
knock.
He called to the belated visitor to come up.
It was his old Burmese headman, who had
accompanied him in from the jungle in the
afternoon.
The man crossed the verandah and squatted
comfortably near his chair. After a few
moments’ silence he spoke.
“The rains are good this year, thakin,” he
said ; “the rice crop will be a big one and
the villagers will be happy—the man with a
full belly is usually happy.”
“Yes.”'
Another pause.
“And many of our logs have gone out to
the main river, and the big thakins in Ran-
goon will be pleased.”
“That is so.”
This time a longer interval of silence.
Emerson understood the Burmans well
enough to know that these remarks were mere
preliminaries; he wondered what was on the
old man’s mind. Finally he came to the point.
“You are. not happy here, thakin? You
are lonely, I think?”
When Emerson made no reply to these in-
terrogative statements he continued.
“Would it not be a good thing for you to
take a woman? It would give you peace ot
mind. Most tliakins in the jungle have
women. There is a bazaar-seller in the vil-
lage, Daw Sa 00, do you know her?”
“Yes, I have seen her.”
“She has a daughter who is not unattrac-
tive. Sa Oo is very poor and does but little
trade; for two hundred rupees she wou.d
give you th e girl.” ■
“I do not think I have ever noticed the
daughter.” .
“She is here now, thakin ; I will bring her.
He walked to the head of the stairs and
called softly; receiving no reply he descended,
and Emerson heard him speaking in cajoling
tones. In a few minutes he returned leading
a girl by the arm.
Emerson looked at her with amusement
and interest; she was a mere child, probably
not more than fifteen years of age, with a
perfect figure, large sloe-like eyes and a fair
complexion. She had evidently been arrayed
in her best clothes, and a crown of white
flowers had been placed in the coils of her
thick dark hair. Toying with the handle of
a Chinese umbrella she stood before the
two men, her eyes fixed nervously on the
ground.
“What is your name?” Emerson asked.
“Mee Yit Shway.” The reply came in a
low, shy voice. Miss Golden Pheasant —
could any name have been more suitable?
“Do you wish to stay here with me?”
“Lord, it is as you wish.”
Emerson moved to the edge of the veran-
dah, and, leaning over the rail, gazed out
into the void. Why should he not let the girl
stay? He would never marry a woman of
his own race now. Of that he was con-
vinced. A number of his contemporaries m
other forests had Burmese women and seeirtod
to like them well enough. On several occa-
sions in previous years he had had oppor-
tunities of following their example, but for
some reason, which he could not have quite
explained, he had always decided against it
at the last minute. The possibility of child-
ren was one trouble —Eurasian children. Per-
haps this girl would have no children. In
any case she would look after his camp, and
it would mean someone to talk to during
these long monotonous evenings.
He turned and contemplated the silent
couple standing patiently before him.
“Very well,” he said at length, “you may
stay.” .
The old headman quietly took his departure.
Emerson tried to question himself. Was
he acting unwisely? Would_ he regret it?
He turned and walked into the living-
room of the bungalow. The girl followed him.
It was similar toi rooms in many other bun-
galows in remote parts of the East. A woven
grass mat and a large tiger skin lay on the
floor, and the doors and windows were
screened by somewhat shabby curtains. A
few chairs and tables and a cane sofa com-
prised the furniture. A motley collection of
books and journals covered one of the smaller
tables. The walls were adorned with hunt-
ing trophies and Emerson’s few pictures. In
one corner stood a cabinet of old gramo-
phone records.
The girl gasped as she took in the scene.
“Lord,” she said, “it is wonderful.” Her
life had been spent in a drab village hut.
Emerson smiled as he looked at her ; she
made a pretty picture standing in the door-
way in her gaily colored attire. He was
about to reply when there came a loud hail
from the gate of the compound, answered
by a shout from the boys’ quarters. Wonder-
ing what the disturbance could be, he Avalked
to the head of the verandah stairs and
looked out. A moment later a dripping figure
ascended, carrying two canvas bags slung at
the extremities of a bamboo pole. It was the
mail runner, a wrinkled old Shan, addicted
to opium and liquor, but _in spite of these
failings a swift mail carrier.
“You were not held up by the floods?”
asked Emerson after greeting him.
“Three times I had to swim, thakin, hold-
ing the bags on my head so that the water
would not enter. The going is very hard
in the rains, thakin; it would be well to
raise my pay, for no other could go as
quickly as I do.”
“I will think it over” —Emerson’s usual
reply to requests for increases in wages.
“You may go now.”
Letters and newspapers one bag. parcels
the other. Letters first. He checked the en-
closing list sent by the Indian trader who
acted as his agent in the riverside town fifty
miles away, then glanced rapidly at the
addresses on the envelopes. Suddenly he
paused, and his heart leaped as he recognised
the writing of the girl he had proposed to
—the girl he still loved.
With shaking hands he opened the envel-
ope and extracted four closely-written sheets.
Quickly he read through them; coming to
the end of the last page, he seated himself
in a chair closer to the light arid read them
again, slowly, intently, absorbing every word,
“....and I know now that I was quite
wrong. I have been perfectly wretched over
(Continued on page 53.)


Cheaper Gas —
Lower Freights
Reduced Charges for Electric Light
and Power—Cheaper Train and
Tram Fares.
These are the benefits which the
public should gain if the selling price
of coal is reduced by from 4/- to 5/-
per ton.
The Annual Consumption of Coal by some
of the Public Utilities of this State is
approximately:
State Railways . . . . 1,500,000 Tons
Sydney Gas Companies 700,000 ~
Sydney Electric Light
and Power Stations 290,000 „
The Colliery-owners will gain nothing directly
from a lower selling price or from reduced
wages. The whole of the saving will be passed
on to the public.
But the Public, the Owners and the Miners
alike will receive Benefits from the Saving of
the Coal Industry, the Recovery of Lost Trade
and the Re-establishment of Regular Employ-
ment. The Miners will have less wages per
day, but more money per fortnight.
WORK IT OUT FOR YOURSELF.
THE HOUSEHOLDERS WILL BENEFIT
Publication authorised by C. M. McDONALD, Chairman
Northern Collieries Association, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN'S MIRROR’
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
it is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price 3d.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Wanderings in Wild Australia
By Sir BALDWIN SPENCER.
K.C.M.G., F.R.S., author of “The
Arunta,” “Across Australia,” ete.
Two vols. Illustrated. 425. net.
Spectator : “Two fascinating volumes....
The book is both readable and instructive.
It will indeed, remain a standard work on
the Australia of yesterday.”
THIRTEENTH THOUSAND.
Letters of the Empress Frederick
Edited by the Right Hon. SIR
FREDERICK PONSONBY,
G.C.8., G.C.V.O. Illustrated. 255.
net
NEW NOVELS.
Expiation
By the author of “Elizabeth and
Her German Garden.”
[Empire Library.
The Tatlkk : “Her novels are invariably a
sheer joy 1 , and her latest, ‘Expiation,’ is among
the more joyful of all she has written.”
Farthing Hall
A novel in Letters. by HUGH
WALPOLE and J. B. PRIEST-
LEY. [Dominions Edition.
The Times: “....a good, rattling, enter-
taining novel.”
Portrait in a Mirror
__By CHARLES MORGAN.
[Empire Library.
Spectator: “ ‘Portrait in a Mirror’ is a great
novel and a beautiful one.”
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
FOR YOUR NEXT PARTY. PICNIC,
OA SUPPER INTRODUCE
CAPTAIN CRAB
AND SEE THE SMILING WELCOME
HE RECEIVES
FO» rUWTME* FAHTICUUANS *»K YOU* CROCK*
YOB »*CH*KBOOK
GUYATTS
ARTIFICIAL
ARMS"»>LEGS
TCTADE on most modem
AVJ - principles to suit in-
dividual requirements.
Direct agents for the world’s
foremost makers of the new
light metal Duralumin
Limbs.
Write giving some details.
Expert advice free. Visits to
your home can be arranged.
Dept, tj
GUVATT & CO. U ‘
257 a George Si., Sydney
w
ss:
ŵ
THE TEXAS RANGER SADDLE
WR*
■HI
Vi,*:
Is built not only for appearance but for
real hard work. Made from best selected
materials in our own workrooms, and its
ever-increasing sales denotes its popularity.
With wooden stirrups and cord cinchas,
The Price is £l3/13/-
And for cash with order it will be railed
FREE to your nearest railway station in
N.S.W.
Your inquiry for our Catalog of Australian
and Texas Saddlery is welcomed.
ẁ
WHIPS
POSTED FREE
FOR CASH
K’BURRA WHIPS are still the horseman’s popular choice,
both from the quality and expert hand-plaited workmanship
contained therein. They are made entirely of kangaroo,
including the plaited belly.
THONGS 6ft. 7ft. Bft.
12-plait .. .. 18/6 21/- 23/6
16-plait .. .. 21/6 24/6 27/6
20-plait .. .. 26/6 30/- 33/6
9ft. HANDLES TO MATCH.
27/6 16-plait, 17/-; 24-plait, 19/ ;
o-,/ fi 32-plait, 22/-
If for 9ft. thongs, add 1/6
d8 ' t> extra for loading.
THE HOUSE WHERE QUALITY COUNTS.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON, LTD.,
Box 785 G,
395 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.


All British & Continental
CARS, TRUCKS AND MOTOR-CYCLES
EQUIPPED WITH
lecalemiT
LUBRICATING SYSTEMS
TECALEMIT
HOOK - ON.
TECALEMIT
PUSH - ON.
I
w
can be serviced by
ŵ
TECALEMIT SERVICE STATIONS:
7/.v.v «££
Alexander Mair & Co., Ltd., MeEwan House, Elizabeth St., Melbourne
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street Sydney
Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street Brisbane
Factory Representative: Mr. JAMES THORNLLL, 312 Pitt Stieet, ST DNET
TECALEMIT, LTD., Mitre House, Scrubbs Lane, London, N.W.10, England.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
HAS ACCEPTED
Wi\t Register
NEWS PICTORIAL
with the utmost enthusiasm.
ALL THE NEWS!
ALL THE PICTURES!
The State’s First Morning
Pictorial.
Largely increased Sales
already assured.
Arrange Contracts at
present rates.
HEAD OFFICE: REGISTER NEWS-
PAPERS, LIMITED, Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative: Eric h. Birks,
Sydney. Tel. X 5187.
Melbourne Representative: G. N.
Bednall, “Argus” Building, Mel-
bourne. Tel. F 4502.
K
%
a
ASTHMA <
No matter how severe your
ASTHMA, CATARRH, COLD
IN THE HEAD, BRONCHITIS,
etc. Potter’s Asthma Powder
brings immediate and soothing
relief.
Of all Medicine Vendors 2/6 per Tin.
POTTER & CLARKE. LTD.,
Artillery Lane, London, England
For outdoors, use Potter s Smoking
Mixture and Cigarettes
iTHMA
□WDES^
A 5
n
f* Rheumatism
Backache !
DLOOI) is Youth—keep it free from uric acid,
and old-age pains will not molest you—Rheu-
matism, Backache and other tortures cannot then
spoil your life and rob you of your strength arid
power. The sure, guaranteed way to get rid of
the harmful pain-causing acid is to take Harrison’s
Pills, every package of which bears the signature of
a London doctor.
Harrison’s Pills positively banish uric acid— they also
dissolve the uric acid crystals which lie along the
nerves and muscles, torturing them with every move-
ment. When you take Harrison’s Pills you just
feel the ageing aches and pains glide away; you
feel hope, strength and health return. Hundreds of
testimonials. One user says: “1 have tried so many
Rheumatism ‘cures’ without success that I felt i
never would get better. Had often heard of Harri-
son’s Pills but never tried them until a friend gave
me some. I felt better at once, and haven't had an
ache since the second bottle. I wish I d tried
mem ueioi c.
Decide NOW to re-build your life —to get rid or
kidney bladder, urinary and uric acid disorders.
Get a package of Harrison’s Pills from your chemist
or storekeeper. Three sizes: 18 Pills, 2/-; 32 Pills,
3/-; and 68 Pills, 5/-. Take as directed, and if not
pleased with results from the very first bottle —
money back!
Harrison’s Pills
REMOVE THE CAUSE OF ACHES AND PAINS AND MAKE YOU QUICKLY WELL AGAIH
Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building, Sydney, and all good Chemists.
A WONDERFUL INCLUSIVE TOUR
Battlefields and War Graves of
GALLIPOLI, FRANCE
and BRITAIN
Leaving Sydney, June 4, 1929
S.S. “BARADINE” (13,000 tons)
via Australian Ports, Colombo, Suez Canal, to Port Said, thence first-class
steamer to Palestine, Gallipoli, Constantinople, Athens, Naples and Marseilles,
then by rail to Paris, Amiens, Battlefields, Brussels, The Mole, to London.
Tour includes Visit to England and Scotland.
Leave London for Scotland and the English Lakes District by the World-
famous "Flying Scotsman” of the London and North-Eastern Railway Co., Ltd.
4 to 5 MONTHS’ TOUR, £230
Party Limited. Book Now. Illustrated Literature Free on Application.
Apply BURNS, PHILP AND CO., LTD.,
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, FREMANTLE, etc.
since you went away, John, and feel I can-
not bear it any longer. I want to come and
join you if you are still willing to have
me....”
He read on to the end, then rose and
put the letter in his pocket. The rest of
the mail was forgotten; he strode up and
down the verandah, his mind filled with
anticipation.
Somehow he found it difficult to believe —
the letter seemed like a dream. How often
had he imagined himself married to her in
Burma, spending the hot weather in the
hills with her companionship, returning to
Australia by the B.P. boat every three years
for their long leave ! And now it would all
come true! He would apply for a district
near an up-country station with a European
community, where he would be able to come
in frequently. His company reserved such
forests for the married members of its staff.
A sound from the living-room brought his
thoughts back to the present and reminded
him abruptly of the presence of the Burmese
girl. The advent of the mail had banished
her completely from liis mind. He realised
that she would have to leave the bungalow
immediately. He wondered how lie could
explain matters to her. After a. few moments’
thought he re-entered the living-room and
found her gazing entranced at the illustra-
tions in a weekly newspaper. She looked
up and smiled confidingly as he seated him-
self beside her on the sofa.
“Little one,” he said, “I have something
very serious to say to you, and you must
listen carefully.”
A startled expression appeared in her eyes.
Taking her flower-like face in his hand
and tilting her chin, he continued:
“Some men, you know, have two wives —
is it not so?”
“Yes, Lord.”
“And is it not a bad arrangement for a
man to have two women? They quarrel and
are discontented?”
“Yes.”
“Then I must tell you now that it would
not be good for you to stay here. I already
have a woman, oile of my own race, and she
will shortly be coming to live with me. If
you stayed with me. both you and she w-ould
be unhappy. I have been thinking the
matter over, and have decided that it would
be best for you to return to your mother’s
house.”
The girl turned her face away from hire
and was silent. “Lord,” she said at length,
“I could stay with you until she comes and
then go away.” There was a quiver in her
voice.
“No, child,” said Emerson gently, “that
would not do. It would be harder when the
time came. You will be happier afterwards
if you do as I say.”
He rose and passed into the adjoining bed-
room. Opening a steel safe which stood
chained to a post in one corner he extracted
two bundles of Treasury notes, relocked the
safe and returned to the living-room.
The girl lifted a troubled face as he re-
joined her. Bidding her follow him he walked
out of the room and descended the bungalow-
stairs.
The rain had ceased and the air was fresh
and fragrant. Above the noise of frogs and
crickets, sounds of merriment could be heard
from the direction of the village.
Emerson handed the girl the two bundles
of notes. “Here are two hundred rupees,”
he said. “You must go to your mother, give
her the money and tell her all that I have
said to you.”
She hesitated for a moment as if about
to say something more; then with a murmur
of assent she moved out from the shelter of
the bungalow, a forlorn little figure, clutch-
ing her umbrella and the money.
Sea Thought.
My dear, I know not whence we came, nor
where from hence we go;
E’en that I know I nothing know, that, too,
I cannot know.
Their tribal gods men still placate, with sac-
rifice and vow,
To legend and to fable yet in mental dark-
ness bow.
Close then this book that tells thee nought
in all its sounding words,
And let thy thoughts be onward borne, like
roving white-winged birds!
Near was the moon in seons gone, and
greater tides she drew
When slimy creatures swam hereby and
scaly monsters flew
From yon eroded hills (which now the
ploughshare turneth o’er)
With sharp serrated teeth to tear a quarry
by the shore,
Then, seeking saurian prey to seize, the huge
fish-lizard sank
Its living length of flesh and bone on this
Liassic bank,
By swift volcanic chance o’erwliclmed and
so inert to stay
Embedded in a tomb of stone since that pri-
meval day;
A day mayhap when Nature, filled with
planetary glow
Of youth, her early efforts spurned, her
mountain chains laid low,
Re-bedded streams on sunken hills, a con-
tinent submerged
Beneath the sea, and from the sea a con-
tinent emerged.
Aye, Nature holds of small account the clay
she slowly kneads,
But finds, ’twould seem, a value strange in
varied forms it breeds:
’Tis we who deem a gift divine the fleeting
life we grasp;
’Tis she who pads the tiger’s claw, gives
venom to the asp;
If we admire the humming bird, she gives
the hawk its wings,
And writes her law, the-will-to-live, alike
for living things.
All life that was, all life that is, all life
that yet may be,
So runs the tale, in zoophyte cell was cradled
by the sea;
Through varied form and function new and
constant impetus
It finds at length, we fondly think, a God-
like note in us
Who gorge and swill, make carnal love, and
justify the law
That spells survival to the strong—the Code
of Tooth and Claw.
Man-slaying man, whose reddened hands still
take and rend and tear,
Who dreamt and sought since Daedalus the
mastery of air;
Who soared at last, triumphant, o’er his
planet’s clouds —and hurled
Red death upon the homes of men, proud
master of the world !
Well might the grim Cohuna skull sardonic
mirth display!
Well might the caged chimpanzee howl in
horrified dismay!
Meek servants of that Prince of Peace who
taught a creed of Love !
Oh Slain of Men, behold again from Thy
high throne above,
Proud prelates pass in motor-cars through
devil-haunted slums
(Where wind-swept breath of flow’rs abloom
in ne’er a springtime comes
For little children, loved by Thee, enhung-
ered and in rags)
To courage Christian men-at-arms and bless
their battle-flags!
But let us turn, oh, Tender Heart, from these
ill thoughts away,
In fond resolve to find no clouds in God’s
clear skies to-day;
And, for one golden hour of life, lay cross
and care aside,
To think and dream in sweet accord by this
incoming tide,
This besom of a world distraught, whose
cleansing waters sweep
Around the continents and isles in constant
spring and neep.
Here finds the nautilus a port, outsailing
nevermore;
Here dart swift, silvered fishes through a
branching madrepore;
Here quaint crustaceans sidling seek, of
greedy appetite,
To ope in vain with vyce-likc claws the
armored trilobite;
Survivor of a fossil age, when Nature, more
intense,
Evolved new methods of attack, but strength-
ened, too, defence !
Who knows? Some coiling kraken still in
lone defiance strives —
That great sea-serpent of the tale which unto
now survives
In deeper deeps, where silence reigns, and
weird abysses dark
Know not the flash of flying fin or fury of
the shark;
Those lightless, soundless ocean depths
unfathomable, where
Within an inky cavern dread the creature
has its lair?
More charm for us have lesser seas where
adds the polyp small
Its atom to the building of an island; as
the tall
White coral grows and grows and grows,
’mid bright anemones;
In pastures submarine a-flow'r, browse cow-
like manatees;
And giant clams their victims grasp, and,
in sea gardens fair,
Pearl-oysters wait the diver’s search with
sponge and bSche-de-mer.
Now to your ear, beloved, hold this drifted
abalone
Which shoreward brings irradiate, in magic
of its own,
The rose of dawn, the glow of eve, all
paletted on pearl ;
With softer shades of ocean’s blue, white
foam from waves a-curl,
A thousand greens, all tones and lights the
Artist great achieves
Who gives rich colors to the growths which
never shed their leaves.
The abalone hath captured, too, and soft will
sing to thee
In echoes murmured, notes subdued, a music
of the sea—
That sweet soprano which the winds to
Southern Isles outpour;
The thrilling tenor of the Trades, the bass
of Labrador;
A rich contralto Indian seas on spicy coasts
intone,
A gallant song the Monsoon trolls in buoy-
ant baritone.
Slow dirges for their countless dead chant
now orchestral waves,
The pale, uncoffined dead who sleep in ever
unmarked graves;
And then heroic paeans pour, through which,
profundo, runs,
As o’er a smoky seascape heard, the roll
of distant guns—
A theme of triumph and defeat, in which
one faintly hears
The orders pass from quarter-decks, a crew’s
responding cheers.
A glad cantata of the ships next falls in
rhythms gay
That rise and dip with movement soft as
swift bow-driven spray.
All sounds of wind and wave within this
shell imprisoned lie —
The angry harking of the seals, the gulls’
contentious cry.
The penguin’s grunt of coarse distrust —
such sounds the sailor fears —
These spirit voices of the Deep, a trembling
night-watch hears.
And, listing to this mystic shell, old odors
rise once more
Of dripping seaweed, newly washed along
a salty shore;
A chemic smell of crusted kelp, a pungencc
of ozone
From spray-wet rocks and tide-bared sands.
with drifted flotsam strown,
A faint warm breath of mangrove buds and,
subtly blent with this,
The mingled tang of teak and tar, bamboo
* and ambergris!
* * * Hi
The World of Men goes on its way, nor
cares for you or me,
And here beside our halcyon shore, so dream-
ing, naught care we!
The Tides of Time will bear away our
fairest hopes and dreams;
Our lives at last will find the Sea, though
dim and far it seems;
But Life methinks is still worth while
despite its loss, its pain,
With even Silence in the end. if Love and
Truth remain.
VICTORIA.
E.J. BRADY.


from EARLY
DAYS
"■ ifeW Jrrmml
: ,
WTO/:
m
*1 *« -fifi
■ v .g®''
7
’ :.
~r^m
KSS IP i * * •
i u'^g*B^a^wSS!'■■■fe'feg
***^ k * wj rate
tgtig*!* ? "p||jJ*%ijU , pPBp
Hi
c- --
yggsjpgggp"' ll iww 1 '! ■
«*» Jd
igp*®»*BS ■ .»m*pH
Sf?:. *&£
*«BH
"• *# '«#i
: W- !
•U"» ■ M
£urjai
H
■'s*l' ■
s a m »i!ji^ppppjfh
.
-,. ■ ' " i -.
I
,JR ■
A
1
' ’ '-■
■£J
Jf
mSmk
r _ - - n f^p^-'j| : ' l >- $r q|||^i ||M ii j IW" '
ÜBLIC
1 DAYS
TRUCKS
have held leadership
Here are illustrated the first Republic
truck and a modern chassis. The
original Republic shown gave faithful
service year after year until 1927,
when it was purchased by the
Republic factory.
During those years the Republic
organisation attained the immense
dimensions of which an idea is
conveyed by the bird’s-eye view
of the factory.
This progress was built upon the
solid foundation of service to owners.
Goodwill made it possible to develop
the Republic conception of true
transportation needs, and the effi-
ciency of Republic trucks is respon-
sible for the fact that there are
more of them in use than those of
any other truck manufacturer.
Let the Republic dealer nearest you
give you demonstrated proof of
Re pub 1 i c’s suitability to your
haulage needs.
New South Wales!
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177-185 William Street, Sydney.
Victoria:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS
Queensland:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency.
(Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
South Australia:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Weymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
Ilew Zealand:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets,
Wellington.
Factory Representatives: W. A. CROW L E, L T D., Crowle House, York Street, Sydney.


Babies
thrive on
ẁ
'l '
it/sso
nourishinq and
easy to digest
In 4 sizes
or all Chemists & Stores
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
DntECTOßS— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan Esa •
if. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G. ’ **
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London Canberra (Fedeial Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
thvm, h h S t v, ln 7 Q H- een R an^- an r r '>' th< ' rn Rivers * N - S. Wales, also “representation
Rnnl nffp t , h = e tL ea f"ii g Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offeis the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
THE WORLD’S LARGEST COMMERCIAL FORESTRY CO.
SUBSCRIBED SHARE CAPITAL
SUBSCRIBED BOND CAPITAL
£235,586
£2,750,000
BANKERS—THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND AND THEIR AGENTS
SOLE BROKERS—SMITH, WYLIE AND CO., LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN BRANCHES AT MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE TOWNSVILLE
Perth, Hobart and Newcastle.
AND AT A 3^ A 3^F^BROArr^^'T AN T I nvn^ Ll ® GTON ’ CHRISTCHURCH AND DUNEDIN;
AND BOMBAY B TNdYa a'tY^Y T ’ l -tY.^ ON ’ E C - 2 : JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA ;
BOMBAY, INDIA, SINGAPORE; KUALA LUMPUR, FEDERATED MALAY STATES.
ISTANLEYf
Stanley
Unbreakable
Vacuum Flask
Made entirely of iteel
and lined with blue
amalite. Guaranteed to
keep liquids boiling hot
for 18 hours, and icy
cold for 36 hours. Ab-
solutely unbreakable.
Ideal for travelling.
<s Vel t s7/6
P 2 Quart Size •* 75/-
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street, Brisbane^
“There’s something happened down the
course,” said Jack, looking through the
glasses. “The ambulance has gone out.
They are carrying a man on a stretcher.”
“Is it some poor jockey?” Betty asked
sympathetically.
“No, I don’t think it’s a jockey,” Jack
replied. “I cannot see for the crowd.”
Chapter XVII.
Mr. Clinton and his party left the course
as soon as the great race was run. Clinton
disliked crowds, preferring to leave Flem-
ington early and travel home in comfort.
On arrival in the city almost the first thing
they heard was the cry of the newsboys:
“Full Account of the Cup—Death of the
Winner’s Owner.”
The particulars were necessarily brief.
The paragraph was headed:—
Tragic Death of Mildura’s Owner.
Heart Failure Suggested.
Excitement Proves Fatal.
It ran:—
The thousands of racing patrons who saw
the Cup run to-day will learn with great
regret of the tragic death of Mr. Gerald
Deacon, the owner of the winner, Mildura.
From the particulars at present available,
it appears that when Mr. Deacon, who was
in the carriage paddock, kneiu beyond doubt
that his horse had won the race, he started
to walk as if he intended to leave the
course. He had not gone above five yards
when he suddenly collapsed, and almost
immediately expired.
Dr. Cork, an old school-friend of Mr.
Deacon’s, who was consulted by him
recently, was instantly in attendance, and
intimated his willingness, after examining
the body, to give a death certificate.
So far as the leading members of the
Betting Ring know, the late gentleman did
not back his own horse to win.
The late Mr. Deacon formerly resided at
Mildura. He was well known on the Murray
River as an all-round sport and a fearless
rider, having ridden winners at the Went-
worth races. He recently married Miss
Marie Carducci, who, it will be remembered,
posed for the girl in the well-known picture
“Marketing in Paris,” painted by Mr.
Edward Felspar.
The tragic circumstances of the sudden
death of Gerald caused a wave of sympathy
to run through the racing world. Some who
were aware of Gerald’s financial straits pro-
fessed to think the “heart failure” was very
timely, but they were in the great minority.
No such suspicion entered into the mind of
the public. The majority of racing men
just thought it was cruel luck that a man,
having won such a race with such a colt,
justifying his expert judgment of horse-
flesh, should drop dead a few seconds after
his horse was officially proclaimed the
winner.
Marie did not appear to be greatly cast
down with grief over the death of her
husband. In her heart she felt it was a
happy release for both of them. Gerald
was so sodden with morphia, and so violent
when his supplies ran out, that she had
made up her mind that a separation was
inevitable. For a week or more before, the
race their relations were so strained that
they had avoided each other, Gerald seldom
coming home to the flat.
Mrs. Carducci had her own opinion as to
the cause of her son-in-law’s death. She
thought he was quite tired of his life, and
saw no way out of his difficulties: he could
not recover the position he had gambled
away; and there was the inner tragedy of
an unhappy marriage. She shed a few tears
for him.
Carducci himself, though he had lost all
his money, was indecently happy. What
was the man’s money, he said, even if it
was all lost, compared with what the estate
would now realise? Carducci was the
human jackal to pick clean the bones. He
was impatient to turn the property, includ-
ing the valuable Mildura, into cash. Once
he had his hands on the money he would
take his family to Naples ; and his cherished
dream of a gaming-house would become a
reality. He would lose no time in starting
for Italy, and he hoped to be well on his
way before Frangois Neigre found out he
was gone. Neigre'had been given the slip
once before; could it not be done again?
He would not trouble about Felspar, but
concentrate on the business of realising
Gerald’s assets, and then leaving Australia
with a bank draft in his pocket payable at
Naples. Marie was free. Her beauty had
increased. She was no longer an inexperi-
enced woman. She could twist most men of
the rover type around her little finger, and
having charmed a man she was as slippery
as an eel to catch. A priceless daughter to
have—a decoy of the finest type, proof
against the weakness of love. Under his
training, in Italy she would have all the
young fools with money to burn flocking
to her.
Carducci was not left long with his dream.
His first dreadful discovery was that, quite
unknown to him, Gerald had mortgaged the
horse so heavily that the equity would not
meet the half of his debts. Further investi-
gation showed that every available asset
he had was in pawn to someone or other.
Even the furniture in the two flats was
seized for long overdue rent. Creditors
came from every side. The estate .was
hopelessly insolvent.
Carducci could not at once grasp the
appalling facts. To him it seemed incredible
that his son-in-law had gone through five
thousand pounds—five thousand pounds!—
in so few months, and being dead had not
left a penny that he, Carducci, as head of
the family, could put in his pocket. That
blow was a staggering one, but it was not
as bad as the knowledge that he, Antonio
Carducci, was literally a beggar with not a
pound-note to his name. He was more
poverty-stricken than he had ever been. He
took it as a personal affront that Gerald
had died a bankrupt. He sat down, for
the last time, in one of the hypothecated
chairs in the flat which the Carduccis had
been given notice to quit. He groaned, with
his head in his hands, that he had been
swindled.
He realised more clearly what beggary
meant to him, and how precarious was his
position of present freedom, when the mail
from Sydney brought him the following
letter:—•
Saccaco, you fat swine, your money is
two weeks overdue. If you don’t send me
£IOO in a week’s time I will give myself up
to the police, just for the pleasure of paying
off that old score I have against you, and
taking you to lie Nou, and getting a free
trip to Paris to give Evidence against you.
Donzetti tells me you have much money.
He bought you out for £2OO and this dead
Deacon son-in-law of yours has left you a
pot, too; so cough up or I’ll come to Mel-
bourne and cut your black comb for you.
•Francois.
Carducci almost wept when he grasped the
sense of the letter. He had one week in
which to find a hundred pounds, and he had
not a pound in the world! He went to the
telegraph office, and wired to Neigre:
Will send money in week or two; have
to realise speculation. Heavy losses betting.
Carducci.
The Italian, was like a roaring wild beast
in the Carduccis’ flat. He told Jeannette and
Marie that someone would have to pay for
the swindle Gerald Deacon had worked
upon him.
“Fool you are,” said Jeannette. “Why
you not be led by me? Did I not say no
good would come to you of betting all
your money? No swindle has anyone put
on you.”
“Dio mio! Maladetta! You French-
women are wise too much when it is too
late. Pshut! You make me sick!”
“Non! Non! The good God knows I
pray for you, and to St. Catharine”
“Madonna! Oh! Oh! The liar!”
In his rage he seized the little shrine and
statue of St. Catharine and hurled it to
the floor, smashing saint and shrine into
many pieces.
In a very quiet voice Mrs. Carducci said:
“May the good God forgive you—l cannot.
This is the finish!”
Her husband stamped upon the broken
pieces, crying: “Bah! I will be the end
with you, and the end with her!” He
glared at Marie, a forbidding fat monster of
a man. Marie shrank behind her mother,
almost like a frightened child.
His wife caught fire with anger, and faced
him, a hundred furies suddenly alive in her.
She had not the blood of revolutionists in
her veins for nothing. Aflame, she told
Carducci that he was a piece of dirty scum
from Naples, a rogue who was overdue for
the prison at lie Nou, and there she would
send him if he was not careful.
“I do not care! I do not care! I am
done, with you! Bah! Dio mio! Ido not
care one malediction!”
He stamped about the flat, kicking the
chairs in his way. Then he bundled his
clothes into his portmanteau, and crushed
his fiddle in among them. Picking up his
heavy burden he staggered out of the flat
on his way to ask his friend Theopolos to
give him a week’s lodging.
When he had gone, Mrs. Carducci sat
down to compose herself, looking at but
scarcely seeing the broken pieces of St.
Catharine’s statue—a pathetic figure garbed
in a black dress, relieved at the neck with
a white frill. A reaction had come from the
pain of the cruel upheaval through which
she had passed when fighting bravely against
the anger of an infuriated and wholly un-
reasonable man. The anger was gone that
had suffused her face, but its lines showed
the tension that had been put upon her, a
mere wisp of a woman. It was pitiful to
look upon the great lines of trouble and
suffering that marked her face. The corners
of her eyes twitched from the effects of
the ordeal she had gone through. The
saints be praised, he was gone, the ungrate-
ful beast, after all she had done for him!
Come what might she had finished with
her bad bargain, picked up in the Rue de
la Roquette for a song and a fiddle! She
wept as she reviewed the bitter years
through which she had slaved for him.
Marie put her arms around her mother’s
neck and kissed her again and again, im-
ploring her not to cry. Then she herself
commenced to sob. But having wept, Mrs.
Carducci would weep no more. Like every
practical Frenchwoman in such cases, she
looked at the situation as it was. It was
the time for action, not for weeping.
“We have, ma petite, £I2OO, which your
father knows nothing about. Thanks to
the horse winning, we can buy our tickets
to Paris, and leave for there almost at
once. Your father goes his own way. It
is impossible for me to ever regard him as
my husband. I have done with him. Long
ago he killed my love for him. Listen,
Marie, via petite, to your mother. Nothing
is too hard for a woman who loves, and
so it was with your mother, when I saved
him in Paris the time that devil Neigre
strangled an old lady, after robbing her
apartment. Your father was wanted by the
police, for he was an accomplice of Neigre;
but the police did not' find him, because of
me. I tell you but a little now so that you,
my child, who was born four months after
the robbery and murder, in this then far
Australia, may know how much your father
has forgotten what I suffered for him. A
young woman loves the father of her child,
and so I risk everything, the prison, the
babe to be born in prison, everything for
him. Ah, by St. Catharine I swear I have
done with him. I will forget him and ma#
the good God help him, I will not!”
After a pause Mrs. Carducci continued:
“We will return the £2OO you borrowed from
Monsieur Dalesmuch. I hear he has lost
a lot of money and that he is asking his
creditors for time to pay.”
“Poor Jerry!” exclaimed Marie. “And
he promised to make me a present of a
necklace of diamonds. Ha, ha! Oui,
ma mere, we’ll pay Jerry, but he’ll get no
interest!”
“Ah, non? Why interest?”
Marie shrugged her shoulders at what
she thought was her mother’s innocence.
* * * *
Felspar was painting in his studio when
he heard a knock at the door, followed by
the incoming of the Italian.
The artist looked up, unpleasantly sur-
prised. Carducci went forward to Felspar
with outstretched hand.
“Ah, Mistere Felspar, the surprise, eh? I
was happy to see you!” he exclaimed.
“What the devil have you been doing to
yourself?” Felspar asked. “You look ten
years older. Have you been tossed on the
racecourse for welshing? Is the ghost of
some man you killed haunting you? Is it
drink? With your hair tangled up, Car-
ducci, you are miles away from where
you were when you first sat for me. What’s
the matter with you?”
“Some jettatura has got me, the Evil Eye.
Everything is wrong.”
“Sure it is not a policeman’s eye?”
“Ma foi, non! Not me to be so afraid
of the police; the honest man was not so.”
That s true. And how long have you
been in Melbourne?”
Felspar saw a chance of trying to dis-
cover if the Italian was in Melbourne when
the death certificate was returned.
“Oh, long time. I forget. I suffer—much
trouble, much grief. Ah, it was the death
of Gerald. You know?”
Felspar confessed his knowledge by the
slightest inclination of his head.
Carducci was overcome apparently with
his retrospect of the grief he had‘passed
through. His head was bowed, and it re-
mained so until he thought he had secured
the effect he aimed at.
“You too, Mistere Felspar, have the suffer-
ing? Do I mistake?” he asked. “One must
suffer as the time goes.”
“Who told you I had suffered?”
“Can one live and not die? Do not we
love, and then no more? One must live to
love, and when dead we may love no more.
Ah, can a man escape that? So I say,
Mistere Felspar, you, too, have the grief.”
With eyes full of sharp inquiry, the Italian
watched Felspar’s face.
“You are quite a philosopher,” Felspar
said with a flattering air.
Felspar could not suppress a smile. An
idea had occurred to him that intrigued
him. Mr. Clinton had attached much im-
portance to the finger-prints on the death
certificate, and Felspar saw an opportunity
of obtaining the imprints of Carducci’s
fingers without arousing his suspicions. On
(Continued on page 58.)
At Dead of Night.
I awoke from my sleep with a start,
But why I awoke I declare
1 know not: pit-pat went my heart,
And- a chilliness crept through my
hair;
And I thought lying there in the
gloom—
“I wonder did anyone die in this
roomf”
There teas that in the air all around
' That was alien and eerie and queer;
And the absence of motion and sound
Filled my heart with unnamcable
fear,
Like the dread of a child in the night,
When it wakes in the dark and cries
out for a light.
Had there come through the hush of
that house
The felt-footed tread of a thief,
Or the little swift feet of a mouse,
I had breathed with a sense of relief;
For the darkness, the stillness was
such
That my heart, like a bird, heaved and
gasped in its clutch.
N.S.W.
O for sure ’twas pale Fancy alone,
At range through the vague and the
vast.
The weird and the veiled and unknown,
The Future, the Present, the Past,
That fooled me, else whence came the
. sight
That I saw gleaming there in the dead
of the night f
For I sate (and my heart ceased to
heat,
Or seemed to) a shape on a bed —
Two candles alight at its feet,
And two tall and pale at its head;
Its pallid, cold hands crossed upon
Its breast, from whose housing a bright
guest had gone.
And I said, ‘‘Here is surely some man
Who died in this room long ago!”
But a tremor, a terror began
To turn my warm flesh to cold snow.
For I feared that the shape might arise
And its eyes, peering straight into
mine, be my eyes!
RODERIC QUINN.


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3.369.965
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928.. £18,623,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. B. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E.;
GEORGE J. SLY. LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER; C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 62 Bisliopsgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 186 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH;
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term-Mortgage Shares .. 616,210
Ordinary Shares .. .. * .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,732,525
GRANTS DRAFTS on Austra,ia * N « w
UIVJIU i O 1/iYiiriO Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS IUXZtIr.
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(incorporated by Act of Parliament 1865,
and Registered under the Companies Act 1892,
of South Australia.)
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE'S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £1,25.0,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. ~ 970,000
£2,220,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,470,000
Also 115 Branches and Agencies in South Australia,
London Office: 11 LEABENHALL STREET, E.O.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted. '
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
** should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street. Melbourne.
Keep hoppii\g and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
AS
ẃ
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N Z TROTTING CONFERENCE
n.z! HUNTS association
NZ GUN CLUBS ASSOCIATION
N.z! COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISLAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAL ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
Tiie
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World’s Leading
Advertising Agencies.
ẅ
w
ŵ
Particulars jrom —
UNION STEAM
SHIP COMPANY,
247 George Street,
Sydney.
59 William Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
y.u \
}*****
l‘j!^3S2*£gi.
- r -'.
&J3L
1
m
m
m
//m
ns
A VISIT TO JAVA
(The Garden of the East)
Seven weeks’ wonderful tour, via Brisbane, Queens-
land Ports, Thursday Island, Torres Strait & Darwin,
including 14 days escorted motor trip through Java.
Leaving Sydney on the 6th June, 1929, by the
magnificent steamer
“MARELLA7SOO TONS
Swimming Bath, Gymnasium, Deck Cabins* Verandah
Cafe, etc-;
First-claSs inclusive round fare covering all
SxpSnses—Steamer trip, Hotels, Motor-cars,
Guides, Tips, etc.:
From Melbourne £135 0 0
From Sydney £129 0 0
From Brisbane £l2B 10 0
BURNS, PHILP&’ COMPANY LIP.
SYDNEY AND BRANCH OFFICES
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
ẁ
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20,900,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30. 1928, £88,982,585.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
551 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,075,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,553,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN ( Chairman ) ;
Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES, M.L.C. ; Hon. .TAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.;
OWEN ESMOND FRIEND; Major-General the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM
MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.
General Manager: J. It. DRYIIURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
FOlt HriSBANE, MACKAY, tOWNSVIttE, CAItiNS
(transhipping for outports).
TO EUROPE—
Via UNITED STATES & CANADA
See. Honolulu, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Chicago,
Niagara Falls, New York, Vancouver, Montreal, Que-
bec, and travel across the Atlantic on one of the
luxurious CUNARD LINERS, including the
R.M.S. Aquitania, R.M.S. Berengaria,
46,000 tons. 54,000 tons.
R.M.S. Mauretania,
30,000 tons.
In conjunction with
THE CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL
LINE,
Via VANCOUVER.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE,
OCEANIC-MATSON LINE,
Via SAN FRANCISCO.
Return Tickets issued by the Suez Canal and Cape
Lines are available for this route.
Apply for particulars of reduced through rates to
Union &team ship go, ltD: }
OCEANIC-MATSON LINE,
or
CUNARD LINE (C. & D. Line),
1 Bent Street, Sydney.
Come and See—See and Stay.
HAWAII
HAWAII
HAWAII
To enable holiday makers and travellers to visit
these beautiful island gems of the South 'Pacific,
excursion rates are available all the year round:
First-class passages from £75, second-class from
£55, with first-class Hotel Accommodation as
low as from 12/- to £3 per day with meals,
assist the pleasure seeker to make the Hawaiian
Islands the real dream holiday.
Surfing, surfboard-riding, golf, tennis and
motoring (motorists may bring their own cars
or hire one locally at exceptionally low rates),
can all be indulged to the fullest in ideal
surroundings. Inter-island cruises. Visit
Kilauea volcano.
Come, here is the holiday bi a lifetime offering
in
HAWAII—HAWAII—HAWAII
Inquire fullest particulars at all steamship or
travel agents, or from this office direct.
HAWAII TOURIST BUREAU,
Dept. 26, Box 162788, G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
BRISBANE, viaBYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane isßued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
clue Brisbane Monday afternoon..
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday eveniag;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/1/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/16/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart ParkerLiM
Magnifloent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne j Bridge Street, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.


5Ns
%
Little NORMAN
BRADLEY who has
always been bathed
with Rexona Soap
His mother writes :
" I have used Rexona
Soap always and think
it is truly delightful.”
IKeep tlhe
IRIEAONA Ihcilbit
Right from birth you’ve always seen that baby’s plump,
soft little body, apd rosy cheeks have been kept as clean
as could be, and you always made sure that nothing but
Rexona Soap was ever used. Thousands of women
write and tell us this.
But when baby grows out of her baby ways and is old
enough to attend to her own toilet, does she know how
much it may mean to her in the future if she neglects to
care for her skin ?
You know Rexona Soap is pure and good, so keep your
children along the path to skin-health by always seeing
that they use it. They will thank you in years to come.
M,
£
REXONA
SOAP
for Health and Beaulv
RS4R
\
mm
m
v
1
FRAGRANT, MILD, COOL
ft
i"- 4 -
i
D
II
u
LRAIG AND AITKEN\SYDKEY CLUB^R^It^CICAR^FACTORY
IllZ
The satisfying, mellow flavor of
Club Reil Cigars comes of care-
ful selection and curing of the
tender Havana leaf best suited to
Australian taste. Club Reil
Cigars are pleasantly mild. Their
high quality is absolutely, depen-
dable. Order by post, as under,
if unobtainable locally.
Box of
99 >»
9t 99
99 99
10, 5/6
25, 12/-
50, 23/-
100, 45/-
posted 6/-
„ 12/6
„ 23/0
„ 46/
FPL292
No. 5.
J. H. M. ABBOTT
TELLS ANOTHER TALE OF THE BAD OLD DAYS.
ME. JOHN PRICE, Civil Commandant
at Norfolk Island in 1846, walked
from his residence behind the little
blue, golden-beached half-moon of Emily Bay
along the seafront towards the Old Prison.
Down to the southward was the tall bulk of
Phillip Island, and in between the island and
the main the white sails of the trim and
graceful Government schooner from Hobart
Town, with painted ports that were only
sham ones, swayed and curtseyed in the long
swell breaking on the reef that skirted the
coastline.
The pathway along which he walked
slowly was made of coral sand, carefully
raked and smoothed, and bordered neatly
with white-washed stones, and it went
straight as an arrow to the massive stone
jetty at the landing-place beneath the signal
station. “The Commandant’s Walk,” it was
called, and it amused Mr. Price to think
that this was his official track to the prison,
made for Major Childs, his predecessor, and
invariably used by him, to the convenience
and warning of his officers throughout the
settlement.
“Gad!” he would laugh. “They don' t
know which way the present Commandant’s
coming. Or when. No, by Gad, they don’t!”
As he paced along, a strong, active, efficient
figure of a man of capability and determina-
tion, he met the Roman Catholic chaplain,
Father Tierney, a hearty, good-tempered man
“with no nonsense about him.” That other
devil-dodger, the Rev. Harold Byrd, of the
Church of England, was always talking about
the “moral uplift” of the prisoners; but
Father Tierney took them as they were,
never made a nuisance of himself, and was
content to accept the established fact of The
System. It might be good, it might be bad—
Father Tom went his placid way, and did
what he could for his charges. And his flock
was infinitely better off than Mr. Byrd’s
congregation, with all his “uplift.” Much
better off.
“Good morning, Padre,” he called out
genially as he recognised the priest.
“An’ th’ top o’ th’ marnin’ to you, Mr.
Proice,” responded heartily the hearty cleric.
“Faith, ’tis wan o’ tli’ best we’ve had this
long toime. A pleasure to be able to enjoy
th’ warrum sun an’ th’ blue skoy, afther ail
th’ dirty weather we’ve been having. An’
how is it wid y’silf this marnin’, Mr. Com-
mandant? Have ye fixed up y’r mail now?
Sure, I’ve been half th’ night writin’ to
Bishop Willson—he’s that interested in th’
island ye’d think ’twas th’ Promised Hand.
A good man, his Grace, but a leetle worryin’,
a leetle partic’lar.”
“What’s the Bishopjs trouble now? A
good man, as you say; but why he takes
such an interest in the infernal rogues we’ve
got down here is more than I can understand.
You'd think he had enough to do in Hobart
Town without troubling about the island.
What bee has stung him this time?”
“Well, thin, Mr. Price, ’tis about that
fellow De Grayne, th’ wan that’s always in
throuble— he was flogged again yesterday.
’Tis about him I was a-comin' for to see
y’silf this marnin’. I beg ye’ll excuse th’
hour—’tis a shameful hour for to be throub-
lin’ ye—but toime presses, an’ th’ Lady
Franklin’s to sail to-night. His Grace is
very keen this De Grayne should be sent
up to Hobart Town this thrip, an’ for payee
an’ quoiet I was a-comin’ to see ye about
th’ fellie, so’s I might close me letther an’
be done wid it. Faith, I don’t loike this
letther-wroitin’—’tis a weariness o’ th’ flesh
—an’ th’ throuble it gives me, a-thinkin’ out
suitable terrums in which to address his
Lordship. I’m betther wid me tongue than
me goosequill, so I am.”
“You’re all right, Father Tom. Pity
there’s not more devil-dodgers like you ! But
it seems we’re both on the same job. I’ve
had a letter from the Governor himself about
this blackguard De Grayne, and I was just
on my way to the prison to see him. He’ll
be in the hospital, I suppose, if he was at
the triangles yesterday? Eardley-Wilfnot—
Sir John—seems to be in a bit of a stew
over him—a little puzzled—and says the
man had better be sent up to headquarters
so that he may interview the fellow himself.
This isn’t the first letter I’ve had about him.
There’s some confounded mystery about the
matter. It seems lie’s well connected, though
God knows there’s little enough to indicate
breeding in our De Grayne, and that his
mother’s actually come to Hobart Town from
England to see him. Sir John informs me
that she assures him she lias the promise
of the Secretary of State that a free pardon
will be sent out to Van Diemen’s Land at
an early date. She wants to see him
there to prepare him for it. Lady De
Grayne she is, I believe —some baronet’s
widow. But what is your trouble about the
fellow? Walk along with me to the prison
and we can discuss it as we go. What’s
the matter, Padre?”
“This man De Grayne’s got something on
his moind, Mr. Proice, so he has. He’s not
a good Catholic—loike th’ most of ’em, I
fear,” he sighed. “Sure, there’s many of
’em only attjnds the Mass because they don’t
loike Mr. Harold —I’m shamed for to say it.
’Tis th’ troot’. An’ this De Grayne’s wan o’
that soort. He’ll not be confessin’ loike a
good Catholic should be doin’, and I don’
know wliat ’tis that’s vexin’ him. I don’t
know at all. But there’s wan thing’s sure
an’ sartain, he’s not a-wantin’ for to go to
Hobart Town. An’ that’s strange, for you
know how they long to get away from here,
even if ’tis to Hell be way of th’ gallus. I
can’t make him out. Faith, the greatest
dread he’s got is of goin’ back to Van Die-
men’s Land. Ye’d think there was some-
thing there he was badly feared of, so ye
would. Sure, he almost thrimbles if th’
subjec’s mintioned to him.”
The Commandant nodded. “Yes,” lie said,
“you never know what these wretches are
driving at. I flatter myself, Padre, that the
prison mind's an open book to me—l've had
so much experience of them. But they set
me thinking sometimes. It’s very hard to
think as crookedly as they almost invariably
do. Lying is an instinct with them, and
they can’t help it. They're not rational, and
the rational man’s at a disadvantage when
it comes to following up their tortuous pro-
cesses of thought. However, we’ll go and
see what we can make of Mister de Grayne.
By Jove, I suppose, if his mother’s a widow
he’s a baronet himself. Sir Jimmy de
Grayne, eh? Or whatever his first name
may be. Come along, Padre, we’ll look the
beggar up.”
The prison buildings were on the very
edge of the island, and behind them the
houses of the settlement stretched along below
the pine-clad hills —sometimes as great store-
houses and at others as soldiers’ barracks
and pretty cottage dwelling-places. The
utter loveliness of the background of the
park-like island, rising behind the grim,
yellow walls of the two prisons—the “Old”
and the “New” —was in strange contrast with
the foreground, where everything spoke of
the hard coercion of his brother by the hand
of man. The flat at the seaside was sordid
and unlovely—the scenery that backed it was
something of a fairyland.
This path led past the New Prison, a pen-
tagonal masterpiece of solitary confinement
that was fashioned in the style of the famous
“Model” at Port Arthur —an ingeniously-
devised home of torture whose principal
feature was that no inmate of it ever saAv
any other human being but his keeper. The
Old Gaol was a large enclosure between three
and four acres in extent, in which lofty bar-
racks looked over high walls towards the
sea, and inside the walls upon a wide parade-
ground known as the Barrack Square. It
stood close to the high cliffs ending in Point
Ross, hardly fifty yards from the cyclopean
stones of the pier that rendered the dan-
gerous landing a little less so. Outside the
great gateway facing eastward stood the gal-
lows, an object of joyous and instructive
contemplation to all who stepped ashore
upon the island, and a grim reminder of the
mortality of the flesh to those who entered
the prison. It was no obsolete relic in Mr.
Price’s time, but a very efficient and active
factor in the administration of his many
regulations, to which it stood in the light
of final argument. Periodically, after the
sittings of the judicial commission from
Hobart Town, it demonstrated its useful-
ness.
The gates were opened wide for the great
man to enter into his kingdom proper.
Smartly and promptly was he saluted by
constables and warders and overseers.
Devoutly did they pray that his liver func-
tioned well, that his breakfast had agreed
with him, that his all-seeing eye might be
a trifle less sharp and hostile than it usually
was. Trouble generally walked arm-in-arm
with Mr. Price when he entered the prison,
and the prison officers took it as a good
omen that his companion this morning was
the popular Father Tierney, and that the
Commandant was smiling at something the
good man had said.
“Padre,” he laughed, “you know a good
bit more than your prayers!”
“A fine day, your Honor,” gushingly volun-
teered the Principal Superintendent, rubbing
his hands and trying to feel genial as he
came out of the guard-room inside the gate-
way. “Good morning to your Reverence; and
how do you find yourself this morning?”
“Faith, I’m well, thin, Mr. Markton, and
I hope”
“Markton,” the Commandant interrupted
him in his not oppressively polite fashion,
“that fellow De Grayne? I want to see him.
Hospital, I suppose? Flogged yesterday,
wasn’t he?”
“De Grayne, y’r Honor —Number Five?
No, he’s not in the hospital. But he’s not
at work. He was a trifle fractious last night,
sir, so I told ’em to put him away. He’s
in one of the cells, y’r Honor. Shall I send
for him? I’ve got him in the bridle at pre-
sent ; he’s been a bit noisy. I’ll have him
brought here, sir.”
“No, we’ll go to the cell,” decreed the Com-
mandant. “Come along, Padre. We’ll inter-
view the i*uffian. Lead the way, Markton.”
“Certainly, y’r Honor,” said' the obse-
quious Superintendent. “This way, if you
please, gentlemen. This way.”
Across the square they walked to an iso-
lated building, jealously locked and barred,
where the punishment cells were situated.
Mr. Markton shouted through the grated
doorway, demanding admission, and pre-
sently they stood in a corridor that ran down
the middle of the range.
“How is he this morning, Simmons?” de-
manded the Superintendent of the warder.
“Come to his senses, has he?”
“Oh, lie’s quiet enough, sir,” grinned Sim-
mons. “They don’t make much row when
they’re a-weafin’ Mr. Price’s little hinwen-
tion —werry ’andy wi’ coves like Number
Five. Shall I hopen th’ door, y’r Honor?”
“Yes—d’ye want me to do it?” responded
Mr. Price ungraciously. “Father, I’d like you
to speak to him first. I want to take a look
at him. Ask him why he doesn’t want to. go
to Hobart Town.”
When the cell door was opened they looked
into a dark and narrow stone cave, whose in-
mate was barely distinguishable in the gloom
that was only rendered a little less than
completely opaque by a narrow horizontal
slit high up in its back wall. 'A whiff of
close, foul air came out into the passage as
the door was opened. At the far end of this
bare and empty den the figure of a man was
crouching on his knees, leaning against the
stonework. A sort of leather headstall was
strapped about his face and close-cropped
skull, and he breathed with a whistling noise
When the warder removed the gag the reason
for this was apparent enough. A round
(Continued on nest page.)


RHEUMATISM, LUMBAGO
CHRONIC BACKACHE
Bad backache —sure
sign of deep-seated
kidney trouble.
\
Don't be crippled with
pain—health is yours
for the asking
KIDNEY TROUBLE IS POISONING YOUR SYSTEM
ARE YOU “WORN-OUT,” ALWAYS TIRED, WEAK, LACKING VIGOUR AND
VITALITY, “TOO-OLD”?—READ THESE IMPORTANT FACTS.
The majority of men and women who complain
of constant dreadful pains in the back, joints and
muscles, headache, irritableness, loss of vigor, fail to
realise that the seat of their trouble lies in the
Kidneys. The kidneys are the most vital of all bodily
organs. On them depends the purity of the blood,
and consequently the strength or weakness of nerves
and muscles. When the kidneys fail, poisons and
harmful bacteria accumulate in the blood which
indirectly cause the pain. Nerves become frayed and
irritated. No wonder you are often weak and dizzy.
What is the good of “doping” the system with
so-called tonics? Why weaken the body with purging
salts when the only possible means of re-establishing
health and vigour is to restore the kidneys to healthy
action?
HERE IS SOUND ADVICE.
Do you know thousands of people have found that
by taking a short course of treatment with De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills they have enjoyed a new lease
of life? Men and women once crippled with pain, those
actually bedridden, have once again enjoyed splendid
vigour and vitality. This famous household remedy sells
by millions of bottles the world over. Why not get a
supply of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from
your chemist to-day?
That “De Witt’s” will banish the pain and the cause
of Rheumatism, Sciatica, Lumbago and conquer bodily
weakness and nervous exhaustion is proved by the
thousands of letters received from those, in many cases
bedridden, hospital-rejected, but now in robust health,
thanks to “De Witt’s.” Here are just two letters from
many thousands.
A WOMAN’S EVIDENCE.
Mrs. Mary Stewart, 52 Hargraves Street, Paddington, N. S. Wales, says:—
“Six months ago I was completely doubled up with lumbago, suffering intense discom-
fort and pain. I was then advised to try De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, which had
been recommended to a friend of mine. Their effect was like magic, for I felt better after
only a few pills, and before I had finished one bottle my aches and pains had vanished ,
and since then I have hud no return of the trouble. I am very thankful, and have told
many other people about ‘De Witt’s.’ ”
BETTER AFTER FIRST BOTTLE.
Mr. George Mclldowie, 62 Falconer Street, North Fitzroy, Victoria, says
“I suffered for years with a bad backache and painful rheumatism. At times I
had to leave my work, the trouble was so bad. The pains in my back were intense. I
icas recommended by a friend to try De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, and before
finishing the first bottle I felt better, and find walking a pleasure, and I am very
thankful.” ;
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are safe and certain at all times. Go to your
chemist now and secure a 3/6 or 6/6 supply of this invaluable health-bringer. This
scientific preparation will do you good from the very first dose. In 24 hours you will
see their action and realise they are acting directly on the seat of your trouble, the
kidneys. Get your supply of “De Witt’s” to-day and get health as thousands of others
have done.
The testimony of one-time sufferers makes us
confident in the statement “there is nothing so
good as De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.”
Cheaper remedies there may be. There are
certainly none that bear so strong a guarantee
as our 40-year remedy. For your own sake,
refuse all substitutes. Ask for and see you get
De Witt’s—the remedy with the definite
guarantee to show results.
--si’
•S'*
~-/<* S '',-s*.
-os>°
*9rt«^E>>ss^
#s
a»
dfv 1
f V
>r
V s
l l Og
;d*>
De WITT-Spills
TH£ REMEDY THAT SHOWS RESULTS IN 24 HOURS
an easel was a picture that was not quite
dry. If he could induce Carducci to place
his fingers upon it the prints of them would
be registered.
Felspar resumed his brushes. “You don’t
mind me going on painting?” he said.
“No, no, Mistere Felspar. It was like
the old times, eh?”
“Quite!” assented Felspar drily.
“So the picture it fetch five hundred
pounds!” observed the Italian inquiringly.
“It did. And I promised you a bonus.”
“Ah, the pleasure! You have the good
memory.”
“And I can return the compliment. You
can remember so much, Carducci; you have
seen so much.”
“So true it is. I see much in Naples. I
travel, I see more.”
“Naples, Naples! Always you get back
to Naples, Carducci. Why ever did you
leave it?”
“Mistere Felspar, ray honor, you under-
stand, as one gentleman to the other. We
smell each other, eh? You understand.”
“Quite, without smelling you further than
unavoidable, Carducci. An affair of honor,
eh?”
“I kill the man; I bum the candle to the
saints for him, the great sinner.”
“That’s pretty serious, isn’t it—killing
a man?” asked Felspar, still at his paint-
ing.
“He make the love to my wife! Ah, our
knives! He strike at me, but I strike
first—ah! The knife was sharp.”
“You’re good with the knife?” observed
Felspar with affected admiration.
“Signor, as you do me the honor to say,”
and Carducci bowed in acquiescence. “He
died!” the Italian added as if he were
relating the decrees of fate.
“But the police—did they not arrest you?”
“The police! Oh, fools and snails! I
leave Naples to wait upon the man’s brother.
He also die. Vendetta is finish! So now I
look back to Naples. To-morrow my wife
and Marie for Italy do leave. I give them
money—so little! Ah, soon I follow them,”
said Carducci resignedly.
“So you are sending them back to Naples,
are you?” asked Felspar still at his work.
“Yes. But I am no company to myself.”
“You mean you will be lonely?”
“Yes! Yes! That is it!” he said sadly.
“I go soon, Mistere Felspar.”
The artist was merely amused at what he
guessed was Carducci’s attempt at intimida-
tion by his bragging lies about killing a
couple of men. But what was the old
scoundrel after in sending his wife and Marie
back to Naples? And he was going himself,
too. Perhaps Mr. Clinton was wrong in
ŵ
piece of wood or “bit” had been fastened
by the straps across his mouth, and the only
way by which air could enter the lungs of
the wearer was through a hole in its middle.
Hence the whistling. He fell forward on
his hands when the “bridle” was unstrapped.
“Stand to attention!” roared the Super-
intendent. “Salute the Commandant!”
Presently the pale wretch leaned against
the wall near the door and glanced at the
group. The chaplain spoke to him gently.
“Now, thin, I>e Grayne, me poor fellie,
th’ Lady Franklin’s a-waitin’ in th’
bay for to take ye to Hobarton, an’ ’tis to-
night she’ll be sailin’. Pull y'silf together,
me bhoy, an’ buck up a bit. Sure, there’s
good news for ye in Hobarton. ’Tis sorry
I am to see ye under punishment, but
there’ll be an ind o’ that soon, I’m glad to
be tellin’ ye. But ye must see an’ behave,
elst nothing can be done for ye, even wid
th’ best intintions. Sure, her Leddyship’s
expectin’ ye in Hobarton, and”
He was interrupted by a roar from Mr.
Price.
“You infernal dog!” he bellowed. “I know
you ! I know you, I tell you. Your name’s
not De Grayne, and you’re not Number Five.
You’re Denny Haydock, and I committed
you myself at Hobart Town five years ago
to Port Arthur. Now, then, I never forget
a face. You're Haydock, aren’t you?”
It was a well-founded belief throughout
the convictdom he knew so well that John
Price never forgot a face, no matter how
many years might have elapsed since last
he saw it, and could always fit its right
name to it. They had extraordinary tales
about his infallibility in this respect, and
regarded it with something of superstitious
awe. It was never worth while disputing
with Mr. Price, the oldest and eunningest of
them would admit, when he had looked a man
over and had informed him that he wasn’t
whom he claimed to be. Never worth while
-—John Price was always right. It was one
of the many things they hated him for; one
of the things for which they split his head
with their shovels on the Williamstown
breakwater in ’57.
The wretched creature in the cell nodded
his head feebly.
“How did you come here?” demanded the
Commandant. “I mean how did you come
to the island as De Grayne?”
“I killed him and took his place. He was
Number Five.”
“Hivens above!” groaned Father Tierney,
crossing himself. “The Lord preserve me!”
“To get here!” exclaimed the Commandant.
"Why did you want to come here?”
“Because I’d killed another man. And
now you can go to Hell —I’ll say no more.
Send me to Hobart Town, and be d—d to
you.”
John Price looked at him for a little while
before he spoke. “No,” he said, “I think
I’ll keep you here. Good morning, Denny—
don’t be downhearted.”
“Sure, thin, Mr. Proice, ’tis a wonder ye
are!” admiringly remarked the chaplain as
they left the prison.
Squall.
The wind rushed in behind me
And out the other way,
As if only to find me,
Then scamper away.
That growling mastiff the thunder
Rattled his gliding chain,
- Which flashed as he went under
Ilis kennel again.
And as I closed a shutter,
Rain pelted from the sea,
A flock of birds, to flutter
Tree after tree.
The bamboos spread, then righted,
As routed troops reform,
Ashamed to seem affrighted
By a chuckle of storm.
N.T.
FREDERICK T. MACARTNET.
An Old Homestead.
Quickened by the fierce March rain
The crocuses like white fire creep,
And blue-eyed daisies wake again
From burning dreams and drought-long
sleep.
The soft pink roses running wild
Are tangled with the grape-leaves there;
They breathe a perfume faint and mild
Trailing o’er banister and stair.
The warm winds, faint with memory,
Blow out of some dim, hallowed past;
The singing birds all wearied be
Recalling bliss that could not last.
Through sagging roof and leaning, wall
Where dust and cobwebs hold their sway,
The pallid beams of sunlight fall
And make a mockery of Day.
Some presence hovers in the place,
Some potent force the shadow stirs;
I thought I glimpsed a woman’s face,
And saw a tiny hand in hers,
But, seeking after, could not find;
Only, against a chink of blue,
An oleander, soft and kind,
Like a child’s face, came peeping through.
And aught of whispering that I heard
Resolved itself at trembling last
To the low crooning of a bird,
Who, now that mating-time is past,
Beneath the lacy emerald crest
That forms a cool, wide canopy,
Swings in a little wind-blown nest
High in a jacaranda-tree.
O sturdy magpie by the gate,
Vain is your limpid carolling!
They will not come, my passionate,
They come not, though you sing and sing!
QUEENSLAND.
E. M. ENGLAND.


il: |
,-SjJ I
(•WMM«&W j # >\ I TBS
mmtmmM • 1 *
#
■
“7-ii
to! »
'!/1 - :•:
SffiSi&l
a
WESTINGHOUS
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in utock —wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
V/rite for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES * CHiBCH Brisbane. CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
NZ Office—ll 3-107 I'eatherstou Street, Wellington ~ ,7 *
Victorian Office— “Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide. S.A.
For Any Advertising Campaign in
Queensland Let Your First Choice Be
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
and its companion journal, “The Sunday Mail,”
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine.
“The Daily Mail” is the big morning paper with a
greater nett circulation than any other daily in the
s. State.
“The Sunday Mail” covers in one day the entire
metropolitan circulation of Brisbane’s four dailies.
For advertising rates and other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
£BB-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town and
Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and each
issue is eagerly read by men, women and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays. Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, I-lobart,
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 228
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: "Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
Clk Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at dll inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
WILSON, 22S Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone, MA3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
BRISBANE COURIER”
FIRST
in Queensland in
Circulation - Advertising - and Influence
The “Brisbane Courier” carries considerably more advertising
than any other daily or evening newspaper in Queensland —
and is greatly increasing its lead every month!
Such is the confidence National, Interstate and Local Advertisers
have in Queensland’s biggest and most progressive daily newspaper.
Specimen copies and rate cards from ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper Coy., “Courier” Building, Queen St., Brisbane
If any illustration in “THE BULLET IN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
i
LJL
P
fcl
A WOMAN’S sensibilities
are finer, her enthusiasms
deeper than man’s. She
overworks, overplays, “ lives
on her nerves ” and is nearly
always constipated and suffers.
Women need Beecham s Pills.
They bring colour to the
cheeks, sparkle to the eyes,
and quiet to the nerves by
stimulating healthy digestion
and regular complete elim-
ination.
Beecham’s Pills enable
woman to be at her best.
w
-C
mm
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know —from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
TUESDAY —Price 3d
O
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
<s
<6-
$
V
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is tlie oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,’’ “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable ]rom :
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd., Mr. V. W. Margetts, Mr. W. G. Dougan,
73-75 Patterson Street, 122 Flinders Street, 701 Herald Building,
-eston. Melbourne. 66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
X
w K
V
-
0
0
0°
e
6V
&
s 6
f
S®
A**'
"V,,
o'*
..* *e«#
.*■’ ce °tS fe -
\V»„ V v v^^
V\s of
■*


m
m
50MED
;>:V>’Cs*ss
ms
•S.'S
S 3
w
mi
Sr
;>;*3Ss§
m
Z-HJ/f//;
—7 ’>v //
je*i
fm
si M
~~rr
f[ljjj^4s=s^
m
m
ra/:
Tl I —•
: J <vwX~- rf>
//*S
&V/JS
WmM.
SSSw®
w;
I
■
pi
i&r
Silk Jess!
vwww^^.-;v/< y iy<<-:v
S*<*
mi
kr *&*
l-friyiw^yp
r£Z*M
I
»TKUI
„PPO
5<5
JHWIU
'.;
cs\V‘<
<ii li
FINE
**&£#?£
rruJii;
-
«
$
£*£
rf
■=mmil
hss
sm
;< >^~-
im
ii
V*>«vw
s^ir^'
lysu ppu edlo fiirjStr'
iMPCRj^UNSTITiirc
i
-•--
97?
'*%Ss\
u ?b)6ST<SnD UUDO
JohnDewaraSons L-
Disflllprc inMDON
p--.
w
'£7mt
Distillers PERTHJScotIandU LONDON
PROOUCE OF SCOTLAND
gats
W-
;«*rfS
.cibc
<sw:
*2gs*
4£jy'.U:. /'■>su££zz~
•3»T
ug
(SsJ
lilllliiliK
*&g
/T/
:•'• ; >>'r>S/VNUA ; ».*!>.•.%•
•r>wooi««
>**
ftwr
ii
i
Good Spirits
await Good Company
DEWAR’S
the whisky
wmsm.
•va*:.
C.v.
;»aV
X*,v*
! wWwa
&*sa£g&
Cs/
O
