

r --r.- .: u ....
fi
*s
f
e, 'Y m ■',%
■man
>
O
BY 11 HOURS 16 MINUTES
2577 miles covered in 3 davs 23 hours 27 minutes, over
tortuous roads, through barren deserts, and over trackless
wastes.
The Chrysler Sedan which established this amazing high-
speed trans-continental record was a stock model absolutely
standard in every detail, and privately owned and driven by
Dr. Garnet Manning, who was accompanied by his wife
and. one passenger.
On leaving the steamer which brought him and his car
from Europe, Dr. Manning found that he was urgently
needed in Sydney, and decided that the fastest manner in
which he could reach his destination was in his Chrysler.
Straight off the ship and on to the road ! ! !
Only fearless and skilful driving coupled with Chrysler
quality, endurance, and roadability made possible this ter-
rific dash from Fremantle to Sydney.
Strains and stresses which would have wrecked most cars
were taken in its stride by the Chrysler. Good roads, bad
roads, and no roads at all were all the same to the car in
its non-stop, day and night rush from coast to coast.
In its thrilling speed, its inbuilt stamina, its matchless
workmanship, no less than in its striking beauty, this
Chrysler Sedan proved its leadership, and set new stand-
ards for closed car performance.
Remember—this was no specially prepared, highly geared,
semi-unsprung racing chassis, but a standard stock model!
The same reliability that made this run possible is built
into every Chrysler. It’s time you tried a Chrysler!
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales . . . Larke, Neave & Carter Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Collins Motors Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Ward Motors Limited, Brisbane
West Australia Wm. Attwood Motors Ltd-., Perth
South Australia .... O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania Metro Motors Pty. Ltd., Hobart
New Zealand Todd Motor Company, Wellington
New Guinea W. R. Carpenter & Co. Ltd., Rabaul
fC.5.504)
The Bulletin
Jslwv4r-Atu.d (nj tdmovui
Vol. 50,—N0. 2590.
Wednesday, October 2, 1929.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE 1929 LIBRARY CATALOGUE is
A now ready, and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCIv’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SOS! is a signal for aid
When we’re in danger and feel afraid.
SOS! brings us confidence sure
When we’ve Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
SOS! sends a blessing worth gold
When we’re distressed by a cough or cold.
SOS! instant ease will assure,
“Code” for Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure
w
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
s.b ::::::
WORCESTERSHIRE
&
vs
HW 3
ŵ
STAMMERING AND STUTTERING
CAN BE CURED IN YOUR OWN HOME
Send TO-DAY for particulars of “Perfect Speech” and copies of letters from
those who have been cured. Philip O’Bryen Idoare, M.8.1.M.5c. (London) (The
Stammerers’ Friend), Specialist in Public Speaking and the Cure of Stammering
and Stuttering.
ADDRESS:
56 BRISBANE ARCADE, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
P.O. Box 1142 P.
Quick, Reliable Way to Stop
RHEUMATISM
Soon Puis Stop to Backache and Joint Pains!
Keep your blood free from. uric acid, and ageing
pains will not molest you-—Rheumatism, Backache,
Swollen Joints and other tortures cannot then rob
you of your healthy activity and strength. The
reliable, guaranteed way to get fid of the harmful
pain-causing acid is to take Harrison’s Bills, bearing
the signature of a London doctor. Harrison’s Pills
dissolve the uric acid crystals which lie along the
nerves and muscles, torturing them with every move-
ment you make. When you take Harrison’s Pills
you feel the ageing aches and pains glide away;
you feel strength and health return. Hundreds of
testimonials. A hospital nurse writes: —
"io Amalgamated Laboratories, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, —You might, Ve interested to know that
the success of Harrison’s Pills in treating Kidney
and Bladder Troubles, Backache,_ etc., has been such
that l have recommended this remedy to scores of
■patients, and I can testify definitely to their umisual
efficacy and great value for me in these painhl
troubles.” —( Signed ) Sister B. Piper.
Decide NOW to rebuild your life—to get rid of
Rheumatism, Backache, Kidney, Bladder, Urinary
and Uric Acid Disorders! Get a package of Ham-
son’s Pills from the nearest chemist. Three size-:
18 pills, 2/- ; 32 pills, 3/-; and 68 pills, 5/-. Take
a 3 directed, and if not pleased with results from the
very first bottle—money back!
Harrisim’s
Amalgamated Laboratory
Pills Remove the Cause
'ex, Remain Build' r ><‘, Sydney, and all High-clas- Viiemtsts.
' \.„
■X
X*?*
Posed by
Madge Bellamy
famous "Fox"
Star.
m
The Winning Smile
of Thrilling Health
No nerve pains, headaches, indigestion or sleepless
nights to fade the smile of happy young womanhood !
Cream of Yeast keeps such ills away, and so makes
life the glad sweet song it should be! Cream of
Yeast is the great tonic “pick-me-up” and invigorator.
It prevents little ills becoming big; chases away
depression; keeps up the appetite; wakens tired
eyes; keeps cheeks fresh and clear. Try a 1/11
package to-day— for happy health’s sake! — Amalga-
mated Laboratories, Kembla Building, Sydney, and
all High-class Chemists.
Your Chemist Sells
OF YEAST
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Experimenting
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary Experiments?
Cut Waste and
Advertise with a
“Result-Bringer”
Che Cdcgrapb
BRISBANE
Has proved itself for
over 57 years a good
“Result-Bringer” for
all Advertisers.
the telegraph
newspaper 00. £td.
Queen & Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane.
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT! LUNGS!
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
\N IDEAL REMEDY
Juj
■ MWMJIWI
HU
ON
wjt.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza.
Containing no Cocaine or Other
Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says:—“Proved to be effective bac-
tericidal!}' as is creosote.’’
Unlike cough medicines, EUMENTHOL JUJUBE?
do not interfere with the Digestion; on the contrary
they have a beneficial effect, as their antisepta!
properties prevent abnormal fermentation of the foo 1
when taken after meals.
The Red Page
Laurel-time and Jack Lindsay
After much practise-shooting, with arrows
too excitedly drawn, Jack Lindsay hasi
struck the target fairly in the white. 1
refer to his translation of Homer’s Hymns
to Aphrodite (the Franfrolico Press), which
'is unlike anything else he has written.
Some say “Translation!” (inferring lack
of originality); but Lindsay’s “Prelude” is
original, and equal in merit with the bulk
of the book:—
This girl it was who gave her body for us,
bom from the murdered genitals of Heaven
and locked in water. Browned in a salty star
she rotted for my sake and yours, she faded
in pits of thickening heat, until the blood
met the long curve of her returning will
and coiled a milky anguish on the depths,
clashing its stony petals into flesh
and spinning earth upon a sudden axis
of solid flame. The body of broken light
clenched itself back into a woman’s body
and heaved itself with foam upon the curves
of its returning will—till earth was born,
a sphere of spirals wilting into water
and foaming always into Aphrodite.
This girl has given her body to the earth
that beauty may shrug our senses into rhythm.
And whether Homer, that young harping man,
it was who told us what her name might be,
or whether Homer told it to another
who told us the same words I do not care.
In any case I know that that young harper
was deeply befriended by this goddess once
and talked with her all day upon a hill,
a laughing-matter to the lonely birds
and gossip for Olympos. This I know
and shall not be refuted, since no counting
of the Digamma proves me wrong or right—
for I have dreamed it all in purest Trojan.
From now onward Lindsay will be assured
of his audience.
In 1923 he puzzled eveiybody; and I
think he puzzled himself. One man, criti-
cising his school of poetry, said “Not
nightingales, but jackasses.” Lindsay gas-
conaded. It was his policy to praise his
associates beyond their merits; trying to
make his wishes come true. All the time,
he planned to capture public interest; never
its favor.
About this period Australians were listen-
ing to Quinn’s tune and O’Dowd’s tune, to
Brereton’s tune and McKee Wright’s tune.
Quinn, O’Dowd, Brereton and McKee
Wright were the accepted and admired
successors to Harpur, Kendall and Daley.
Suddenly, from another quarter, an enor-
mous hubbub started, so that the musicians
hesitated in their playing. This was Jack
Lindsay, inarticulate; knowing what he
wanted to say, but too passionately obsessed
by life to wait and say it-clearly. People
described him as “a red-hot sensualist.”
Perhaps he was. But, to me, his greatest
fault lay in incoherency. Covetous of
writing at once, more skilfully than he was
then able to do, he became periphrastic and
incomprehensible—a noise in a jungle. I
thought there was no hope for him.
Months and years went by. He told me
poetry was fastened in him, but I believed
it was only his foot that was fastened in
poetry. He buzzed like a hornet. Then,
all at once, there was complete silence.
He had gone to London. The Quinn tune
began again; the O’Dowd tune; the Brere-
ton tune; the McKee Wright tune. Wisps
of news, floating from England to Australia,
announced that Jack had become a pub-
lisher of books. Kenneth Slessor’s “Earth
Visitors,” aristocratically attired in buff, was
one of the first volumes to arrive. Some
others came before, some after; and, at
last, we received Lindsay’s own production,
“Homer’s Hymns to Aphrodite,” illustrated
with four gravures of statues carved by men
closer than we are to the very day
when Aphrodite flushed upon Anchises.
Among the gravures:—
....the copy of the girl of Cnidos stepping
from Phryne into Praxiteles’ warm arms
and goddessed at a touch.
Establishing himself upon these Hymns
of Homer,-Lindsay brings to the world a
star for young poets to steer by. Beauti-
fully written phrases rise like branches of
blossom composing an archway into the
book. Rather than criticise, I accept grate-
fully.
Turn again to the Prelude:—
....that young harper
was deeply befriended by this goddess once
and talked with her all day upon a hill,
a laughing-matter to the lonely birds
and gossip for Olympos.
And talked all day upon a hill! Could
a thing be more simply told? We hear
their voices in that silent place. Her words;
his words:—
a laughing-matter to the lonely birds
and gossip for Olympos.
“Daimonisch,” Carlyle would have called
it.
HUGH MCCRAE.
Seeking a Soul
The question whether Sydney has a
soul was correctly answered in the negative
by Keith L. Barry (R.P. 24/4/’29). But,
though right in his conclusions, he blames
the wrong causes.
To state that “there is a glorification of
the physical in Australia to an almost
blasphemous extent,” mainly on account of
the fuss over Test matches, is to disregard
that these matches do not come under the
heading. Nor is this fuss sport. It is the
outward signs of a sickness common to the
whole world—love of sensation. It is only
sport for the men actually playing; for
the onlookers—worshippers at the shrine of
records, not sport—-it is a pastime, an
orgy.
1 he so-called glorification of the physical
in Australia hardly exists, for Mother
Grundy, with the help of Mr. Prude, has
stamped it out or suppressed it. The coun-
try which is perhaps the best example of
this attacked “glorification” is Germany,
there is the real love of the Body Beautiful
here, resulting in numerous outdoor “Nack;-
kultur” clubs where in special grounds the'
sexes mingle without a stitch of clothing.
The object of these clubs is the develop-
ment and beautifying of the body through
bathing, sunbathing, gymnastics, eurhythimcs
and other sports, all practised openly in
the nude. Besides these clubs, which are
said to have very high moral standards and
large membership lists, thousands of Ber-
liners of both sexes are to be seen on any
fine summer day bathing and sunbathing
at the many lakes around Berlin, the men
in nothing but “V’s” or shorts and the
women in scanty neck-to-knee costumes
when actually bathing. Most of the un-
dressing is done unashamedly in the open.
In Australia, just before I left it two and a
half years ago, it was forbidden for a man
to lie on his back in bathing costume.
It is not fair to blame the present state
of Australia to this cause, nor is it just to
lay the blame at the feet of sport. Sport,
in its true sense, cannot do harm. Only in
record-hunting, and where the desire to win
is greater than the desire to play, can harm
be done. Gambling, such a prominent trait
of the Australian character, has nothing to
do with the charge made against the love
of the physical. What Australia needs to
do is to root out this imported sensation-
alism and record-hunting, and to play
games for the sport itself. The space left
could be filled to advantage with a little
more love of the purely physical.
In short, the present deplored soul-less
state of Sydney is to be blamed to nothing
else but the general condition of the
Western world, where the soul, being an
asset of no commercial value, is not wanted.
Sydney is only a reflection of the rest of
the world, and is also too busy finding its
feet to worry about its head. When the
time is ripe, when the people are ready,
Australia will find its soul. At the present
state of development it can only try to
hurry the process artificially.
The fact, mentioned by Dr. Barry, that
“your tramguard or page-boy in Vienna
will tell you what is being performed at the
opera, what concerts are on, who is per-
forming, and who is the best conductor or
singer,” cannot be taken seriously. Even
if it were literally true, being a musical
Baedeker does not prove one has a soul;
but the comparison is unfair since only
one art and its very home are chosen.
Otherwise Vienna has been called “a dead
city” by Viennese people I have met here.
Taking the Continental city which I know
best, I doubt if five per cent, of Berlin’s
population could tell you what Dr. Barry
asserts a tramguard can tell you in Vienna.
I have met many otherwise well-educated
people to whom the name of Backhaus,
Germany’s finest pianist, was strange—and
this in the capital of the country considered
the most musical! One cannot expect Aus-
tralia, in its isolated position, lack of per-
sonal intercourse with foreign countries and
distance from the cultural centres of the
world to equal the century-old capitals.
Those who want their “culture” must take
a lesson from the old story of Mahomet
and the mountain. That is, incidentally,
why I am on the mountain.
Finally, this soul Is it to be found in
the night-clubs and slums of London? On
the banks of the Seine in Paris? In the
special cafes for male and female perverts
in Berlin? If not in the Old World, then
why in the New?
BERLIN.
R. S. PANTON.
The Soviet
Measured by pages and words Soviet
Russia’s fourth Year Book (Allen and
Unwin) is about one-fourth the size of
the “Official Year Book of the Common-
weaHh” and about half that of the “OffiSal
Year Book of N. S. Wales.” The area of
Soviet Russia is nearly three times that of
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


‘Truth in Advertising”—expressing the policy which has
built Anthony Horderns.
f'M
at
All Clocki cod Watche* .klatad h- ”3
—*■ ■» - -
Men’s Wrist Watches, from 19/6 ea.
Men’s strong, reliable Wrist Watches, with
Luminous Figures and Hands. Swiss Lever
Movement, 15 jewels. A fine article offered
at an amazingly low price,- Nickel Case,
Price, 19/6, 25/- or 30/-. Silver Case or
1 0-years’ Gold-filled, Prices, 29/6, 35/- to
£5/10/-. Fully guaranteed.
A dainty Watch to please the feminine mind.
Accurate as well as attractive, this Watch
has a Swiss Lever Movement, 15 jewels and
delicately beautiful face. In Silver, Prices,
21/-, 25/- to £3/10/-. Nine-carat Solid
Gold, Prices, 35/-,' £2/10/- to 10 guineas.
With Gold Expanding Bangle, Price, 307-
extra. Fully guaranteed.
sMMPTj
Ladies’ Wrist Watches, from 21 /■
Rosewood Clock, £5/15/'
\ handsome 8-day Cabinet Clock, in Polished
Rosewood, with half-hour gong strike. 1 his
clock is reliable and fully guaranteed. It wil
give you fine service for many y ears ' H '‘f"
1 1 din., width 21 in., dial 6|m. Price, £5/ /-.
Eight-day Cabinet, £lO
An artistic 8-day Cabinet Clock with a beautiful
Rosewood finish. Full 4-quarter Westminster
chime. An accurate timekeeper, and tully
guaranteed, it is a welcome addition to any
room. Height 10£in., width 18m., dial 7in
Price £l °
Artistic Sleeve Links.
Solid Silver Links, with deli-
cate chasing, as illustrated,
Price, S/6
Solid 9-carat Gold.
Prices, pr IS/- to 35/-
Other Patterns —Silver, from
2/6 upwards. In 9-carat Gold,
Prices, from 8/6 upwards.
“Rotherham” Watches from
21/-
A fine-quality Pocket Watch by the
famous makers, with Swiss Lever
Movement, in nickel or oxidised
case. Seven jewels, Price, 2t/-.
Fifteen jewels, Price, 25/-. Screw
Case, Nickel only, 15 jewels.
Price 30/*
Other open-face Watches. Prices,
8/6 to 50/-. All watches are fully
guaranteed.
ARE ~r YOU
m*
If so, let Anthony Hor-
derns’ test your eyes.
Two full y-qualified
Optometrists. Two
parlors, no waiting.
Moderate charges and
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Clocks. Delivered Free City and Suburbs.
Department 2nd Floor. Carriage paid except on
w
Postal Address:
Box 271 2C, G.PO.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
’Phone: M 2401,
Day and Night.


Chrysler in Quality
yet Low in Price
as—
X 3
PLYMOUTH
A
t
&
f
>•
a
l
I
WP
****
am
u
Plymouth 4-Door Sedan
IN Plymouth, as in all Chrysler
Motors cars, full consideration
has been given to all those things
that motorists of today cherish
in the motor cars they own.
From the standpoints of com-
fort, of style, of easy handling
and of genuine capability for
any motoring task, this full-
size Plymouth offers.advan-
tages that usually are found
only in cars of higher-price.
Feature after feature, pioneered
and perfected originally for the
higher-priced Chrysler creations,
is embodied in the Plymouth
giving it the character -and the
distinctiveness of costlier cars. It
has refinement. It has poise.
There is a certain charm about
it that makes you proud to own
and drive it. With all its other
advantages, it is remarkably eco-
nomical to operate and maintain.
WCF
CHRYSLER MOTORS PRODUCT
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales . . . Larke, Neave & Carter Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Collins Motors Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Ward Motors Limited, Brisbane
West Australia Wm. Attwood Motors Ltd., Perth
South Australia .... O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania Metro Motors Pty. Ltd., Hobart
New Zealand Todd Motor Company, Wellington
New Guinea W. R. Carpenter & Co. Ltd., Rabaul


FLANIEL
a week-end or holiday suit
ar a really amazing price
S. B.
STYLE
84/-
D. B.
STYLE
95/-
Every man who sees these suits will be suprised at the
splendid values ! We wouldn’t be able to offer them at
anything like these prices if it were not for the fact
that they’ve all been
produced in our own
fadory during the slack
season.
The suits are made of
all pure wool flannel in
light and mid grey
shades. They’re tailored
on smart English lines
and are lined in the fore-
part so that they hang
right and look well -
tailored. The coats have
thiee pockets either
with or without flap.
w
ŵ
MENS SHOP;,AT IV3ESV ST«Rt ALSO OFF.-O.RO.
our Commonwealth, so there should be no
Lck of material to fill a report, and as it is
alleged to be a remodelled and regenerated
land with an ideal Government the work
should be a joy and pleasure, yet the results
are skimpy. .
The work explains how the Supreme Eco-
nomic Council exercises control “over the
entire industry of the Soviet Union (State,
private, co-operative, communal-federal,
inter-republican and local).” It “exercises
control over the Economic Councils of the
various republics,” and does its high-handed
managing job “by the issue of specific direc-
tions, in which the Government of the
republic, region or locality takes no part.”
So the Supreme Economic Council seems to
have plenty of liberty, but to leave mighty
little for the serf underneath it. In the
matter of domestic commerce it appears
(page 225) that between 1917 and 1921
“internal trade, in the generally accepted
sense of an unfettered goods turnover, did
not exist.” That was the period when it
was fatal for Ivan Ordzhonikidze to sell an
egg to Vasilli Voroshilov except through a
State department, which often lost or stole
or dropped the egg, and was also dilatory
in rendering its account sales. Things have
changed a little, but it is explained that “the
State, in permitting freetrade, did not
relinquish the general regulation” of internal
trade. It still supervises, regulates and
keeps a suspicious eye on the egg.
Though the Soviet Union made a vast
and permanent saving of interest, and
acquired tremendous wealth in gold, gems
and goods by robbery on the grand scale,
it is in chronic difficulties. The new debt
was £37,000,000, leaving out fractions, at
October, 1925. About £5,000,000 was added
next year; £33,000,000 in another year; then
£28,000,000 in a half-year. These moneys
were raised locally, by gentle pressure com-
bined with high interest (if 8, 10 and 12
per cent, is high for a place like that), for
the foreign money market has no use for
the Soviet robbers, despite the earnestness
with which Ramsay MacDonald puts in a
good word for them, even if he puts in
none of his own money. An additional
debt of £33,000,000 is mentioned as being
“guaranteed by the Soviet,” but it is to be
hoped that the above lot has somebody’s
name at the back of the bill, even if the
name is of small account. When the old
currency had become so cheap that the
national expenditure was set down at
£2,607,680,000,000 (all paper money) it was
considered best to repudiate the incubus and
begin afresh. A new currency was started,
and it was to be kept unspotted from the
world, and always convertible into gold.
Unfortunately it became “inconvertible for
the present” some two or three years ago,
and may remain in that bog indefinitely.
A matter on which information would be
gladly received is the death-rate, especially
among infants. This is some indication as
to the health and happiness of a nation.
The “Year Book” contains five closely-
printed pages re births, (marriages and deaths,
but dodges the figures. The “Official Year
Book of Australia,” however, states that
Russia has the biggest and worst general
death-rate among 32 countries enumerated.
The volume has also been carefully searched
for facts concerning crime, trials, convic-
tions, gaol population and executions, with-
out result. Information about massacres
wasn’t expected, nor were details about the
votes cast at elections. It is declared, how-
ever, that each of the 17 “autonomous” or
“constituent” republics, which make up the
Union, “is secured the right of freely with-
drawing from the Union.” When tales like
that are refused credence his tears at the
conspiracy of disbelief equal lOin. of rain.
Under “Foreign Relations” it is indicated
that Russia is a very cumbersome place to
get into and a very long-winded place
to get out of. There is apparently an objec-
tion to strangers admiring the prosperity of
the country. The number of arrivals and
departures seems to be a secret. Quite a
passable “Year Book” might be compiled of
the things which are not in this “Year Book,”
but anybody who was found gathering facts
and local color for that passable volume
might do a sudden and complete disappear-
ance.
J.E.
Strictly Private
Should doctors tell? In Strictly Private!
(the Stafford Co.; Robertson and Mullens)
Maurice Chideckel, M.D., does tell, and
the result is almost as disconcerting for
the orthodox medical profession as it is
for their camp followers, the chiropractors,
Abrams-box men, blood-washers and such-
like freelances of the healing art.
Chideckel is a Russian doctor, practising
his mystic craft in an average cosmo-
politan area in America. He has written
down his experiences in the form of a
diary. Except for an occasional misplaced
jocosity he is a born storyteller; there are
plots for a hundred novels in his pages.
No doubt he has not avoided the temptation
to turn an ordinary incident into vivid
drama; but the essential truth shines
through him. He has not only produced
a gaudy bit of realism: he has sent rays of
light, into a multitude of dark and cob-
webby corners.
In this year of grace 1929 it seems the
mass of suffering humanity is as sunk in
gross superstition as it was in the days
when goats were driven through the streets
of Florence because their odor was believed
to be distasteful to the spirits of cholera.
Id. the last 50 years the horizon of medicine
considered as a science has widened enor-
mously. Notable advances have been made
and certain diseases have either been elimin-
ated or are on their way to being so. But
when the area of light is compared with
the territory of Stygian darkness outside
it the advance is slight—almost infinitesi-
mal. The honest practitioner operates
inside the area of light. The quack con-
tinues merrily to pursue his victims in the
surrounding blackness. Unable to diagnose
properly, unable even to interpret the
sounds heard through a stethoscope, he
gaily pommels the spines of patients suffer-
ing from tuberculosis or massages the
stomachs of victims of duodenal ulcer.
The registered practitioner is not only in
competition with his fellow-practitioners,
but also with the embattled hosts of quack-
dom. If he is too exacting in his regimen
or too prone to confess the limitations of
his knowledge he drives his patients into
the arms of the charlatan. Consequently he
is obliged to indulge in a good deal of
mumbo jumbo on his own part. Fifty
years ago the popular bedside manner was
compounded of jovial optimism and a sort
of Olympian reticence. The modern doctor
positively babbles. He draws diagrams of
the patient’s internals and tells him exactly
what is wrong with him in Latin. The
immediate effects are equally impressive
even if the ultimate results are not. He
is also apt to be unduly optimistic about
the latest discoveries of science. It is a
lucrative business pumping anti-toxins for
this or that into patients’ veins even if the
results are problematical.
There is a Zolaesque irony in such stories
as that of Solomon Ginsberg, warned that
as there is a tendency to hemophilia in his
family he can only admit his newborn son
into the Covenant of Abraham at the risk
of burying him afterwards. The son is
admitted —and duly buried. “Strictly
Private” is a grim book. Nevertheless, one
lays it down with a feeling of optimism.
The area of light is small. The dominions
of darkness are immense—but their frontiers
are retreating.
Books Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a com-
mittee nominated by the Associated Book-
sellers of Australia and Maoriland. It is
printed to serve as a guide to books of
merit:—
General Literature. —Great Essays of All
Nations, by F. H. Pritchard; Express to
Hindustan, by M. H. Ellis; Joan of Arc, by
Hilaire Belloc; Combing the Caribbees, by
Harry L. Foster; Child of the Deep, by
Joan Lowell; Genghis Khan, Emperor of
All Men, by Harold Lamb; The Great Horn
Spoon, by Eugene Wright; Saints and
Scholars, by Stephen Gwynn; The Adveu-
tures of Ralph Rashleigh.
Books of Literary Merit. —Galaxy, by
Susan Ertz; The True Heart, by Sylvia
T. Warner; A House Is Built, by M. Bar-
nard Eldershaw; Crescendo, by Ethel
Mannin.
Popular Reading. —Roper’s Row, by War-
wick Deeping; Soldiers of Misfortune, by
P. C. Wren; Another Part of the Wood,
by Denis Mackail; Coonardoo, by Katharine
Prichard; The Man Who Found Himself,
by Naomi Jacob; Uphill Trek, by Sheila
Macdonald; Galaxy, by Susan Ertz: Adven-
tures of the Scarlet Pimpernel, by Baroness
Orczy; The Buffer, by Mrs. Alice H. Rice;
Bretiierton, by W. F. Morris; Queen Cleo-
patra, by Talbot Mundy; The House of the
Three Ganders, by Irving Bacheller; The
Romantic Prince, by R. Sabatini; A House
Is Built, by M. Barnard Eldershaw; Cres-
cendo, by Ethel Mannin.
A Satchel of Books
Maori Witchery, by C. R. Browne (Dent).
The author was employed by the Maoriland
Government surveying the line of the main
trunk railway through the King Country. He
married a niece of the great chief Ngata,
went through some exciting adventures, and
learned to appreciate the many sterling
qualities of the native race. A faithful
picture of Maori life in the first years of the
pakeha invasion.
London Town, by J. B. Booth (T. Wer-
ner Laurie). As rich a mine of good things
as has been uncovered by a publisher for
many a long day. The London town is
chiefly that of the ’eighties and ’nineties, with
delightful stories of Tree, Irving and scores
of others; inside pictures of a great theatri-
cal and club life that has gone, and apprecia-
tions of theatrical and other performers, high
and low. Oscar Wilde was a “case for a
mental specialist long before the public
crash” :
He had a trick of sitting humped in his chair,
with eyes turned upwards, and his voice had taken
on the pitch of a woman’s. As he talked—brilliantly
as ever at times —he fidgeted with his rings, and
occasionally pressed to his lips a handkerchief with
a narrow lace border. He deluged himself with
scent, and had a trick of dipping his fingertips in
a bowl of scented water which stood on his writing-
table. -•* -
Everybody the writer touches upon—and
there must be hundreds of them —becomes
visible on the page, and the romance that
lies broadcast in the book is made doubly vis-
ible by drawings from the pens of Phil May,
Tom Browne and many another, with scraps
of programmes, photographs, menus and
other odds and ends to help it further. The
writer’s style is brisk; he wastes few words,
and knows a good story when he hears one.
♦-
“Gundy”; J. H. M. Abbott, in describing
the limeburners’ camp in his review of “The
Adventures of Ralph Rashleigh” (R.P.
7/8/’29), like Rashleigh, writes under the
impression that the convict gangs suffered
additional torture through being compelled
to wade neck deep into “stinging” salt water
after being flogged. Contrary to popular
belief, sea water has a most soothing effect
on open wounds. The lime, of course, must
have given those poor devils gip.
Answers to Correspondents.
No 'notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
F.A.W.: It won’t run that distance ; but
it would make a fine column or 50... .E.0’8.: Bill
has our sympathy; but it’s hardly in our line....
S. : “The Cruise of the Dugong” will have
to be a round trip .R.C.H.: You don’t get much
into “Life”.... A.G.W.: “The Rainbow” has no color
that looks like a cheque... .P.H.: Can’t swallow
suggestion that only Australia could produce the
collection of “ripe, fleshy satyrs and nymphs.” Now,
if you Said bunyips . ...R.N.C.: Admire enthusi-
asm. Verse misses. .. .J.A.: Don’t care for your
bachelors....L.A.H.: “Why?” Dunno....E.C.D.:
Thinnest since the election speeches started....
J.L.W.: A tragic glimpse:—
His nerves are wracked,
His skull is cracked,
And his whiskers shiver forlorn.
And only to think he may soon be 'called the
honorable Member for Blank !... .Califorsub: Sorry;
still don’t fancy your “Biters” Don Q.: Not much
weight in those tilts... .Midnight Clem: Now brightly
alight. .. .J.J.S.: Neither suits... .William C.: It
walks on stilts.... A.A.: Don’t fancy the vintage
of “The Phantom Port”... .E.H.: Surprising how
many have fallen down on that job... .L.F.T.: “The
Inoendiarist” didn’t set the pay-office alight....
L.H.: Slight... .P. 8.: You don’t cut much of a
furrow “Ploughing the Virgin 50i1”.... J.8.P.:
Neither impresses.... D.P.: You might have rhymed.
No. 19: We stopped when the count was 10
Bojiza: Can’t let you marry ma-in-law, but appreci-
ate courage... .J.C.: Your “Utopia” has a wobbly
foundation... .Trebor: Too thin. .. .T.R.: “The Wind-
ing Track’’ might have been written by Billy
Hughes himself... .H.C.C.: Correct, but uninteresting.
D. : “Yesterday” went down in a blaze... .M.M.;
Don’t fancy any of that batch... .8.E.: Topic worn
out... .H.D.: Been handled already.. . .C.T.A.: Verse
on political situation not half as funny as its sub-
ject. T. 8.: The last stanza killed it....M.E.:
Slight, but much better than most.—D.G.: Official
cremator of spring verse tenders thanks... .A.D.:
Hero who “voleaneously emerged from the room”
slammed out... .R.S.T.: Rice pudding not to our
taste.... Jane: The little brown mare hasn’t beaten
the favorite yet W.T.: No room for the lady
“hell-bent for the sad end of the primrose path.”
Melool: This is the wrong address for publicity
stunts M.J.: Red-haired girl in red-typed script
had to be sent back J.8.C.: Too precious
T. : What “the chaste stars” saw won’t he
told in this family paper Ascalon: Reminiscences
disconnected and strung 0ut....G.G.: Poorly con-
structed and sentences tediously long C.8.T.:
“This story has not been submitted to any other
paper.” Submit it at once L.G.D.: Well done,
but the subject is not worth it....E.8.: Cave story
might suit magazine for youngsters; character sketch
pencilled out A.E.S.: “Gentle friends, let us
consider Ben.” Not here L.E.P.: Enough mystery
and murder in it to make two beautiful films....
E. : Kodak fiend sandbagged E.D.: Missed the
’bus as well as the bonanza V.W.: Too many
others have worked that vein A.L.S.: You forget
that even fiction demands plausibility... .L.P.W.:
Pet’s bad girl tells an equally bad story.... Cats-
paw: Might catch some other paper... .K.L.T.: A
little below par, but try again... .0.C.M.H.: Nothing
for Lizzie... .Perplexed: (1) There is no Senate
election because members of that House are elected
for six years—lB from July 1, 1920, and the other
18 from July 1, 1929 —and the conditions warranting
a double dissolution have not arisen. (2) The
King may disallow a law which has received the
Governor-General’s assent. (3) “A new State may
be formed by separation of territory from a State,
but only with the consent of the Parliament thereof”
(section 124) Haitch : The jade deserves it: —
Success she stood in the doorway
And I looked upon her as mine
As I climed to the Pinnacles of Panic
I thought that the world wold
Write my name
To be sung for the Rest of Time
But Pate steped in at the window
And bared the way to Fame
And Success was battered and clattered
And shattered
And all my hopes the same.
. ...J. Pride: Tas.-born Diggers (13,104 altogether)
won 11 V.C.’s, 35 D.S.O.’s (four with bar), 103
M.C.’s (three with bar), 05 D.O.M.’s, 35 M.S.M.’s,
477 M.M.’s (14 with bar) and 43 foreign decorations.
The State Deputy-Statistician compiled the records.
. ...G.V..: “Bob” wins his place:—
No beauty does this dog possess no fancied pedigree
His ears are long his tail is short his color ebony
He has a long and shaggy coat, his tail with white
is tipped
His mother was a kelpie and his sire a nondescript.
N.W.: “The Sick Bed” urgently wheeled out.
N.L.S.: Something in both, but not quite enough.
. ...A.A.E.: Apparently constructed on the prin-
ciple that construction isn’t necessary.... Superfish:
Office marine authority declares it a sardine....
L. : Fair enough, but there’s no great kick in
it....M.C.: Too long and vague for the idea.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.T.G.: Bow-legged racehorse destroyed... .J.M.:
No sale, but pension awarded to joke... .N.F.:
Loosen the ladies; strengthen the gag F.C.A.:
Hopeless... .W.: Telegraph workers earthed....
H.P.: Have seen worse on the pavement... .M.R.P.:
Sentence suspended under First Offenders Act....
M. : Anyway, your furniture can beat the usual
sort at climbing H.A.: Wouldn’t like to meet
your models. Would you?... .R.C.H.: No use for
that variety J.W.: That’s for you, too J.R.:
Very feeble S.L.: No good R.C.1.: Don’t mind
girls having hare backs, but we like ’em clean
T.J.8.: There’s a long road yet R.1.L.: Both
“jokes” and “illustrated” questioned R.H.L.:
Ghastly... .G.E.C.: Of course there’s “no harm in
trying.” When are you doing to start doing it ?....
J.8.R.: Idea at least no worse than drawing.


ẁ
JB'leie
.JUitSPS > . 'J *?a
v t Ire®
?"» I ffeQl 'V
**> s /#. ■
jv® *v>w C~~ S' 1 " I**
iSi;' v
JZ»
|
m y l
c </>
yap ,CT>CT ” DO"
j|j)P
» 2
* t*
flly
C ,ll ‘"' M -
» l-
at)*'* 1
&
■»!C
ẃ
....lib. . .. . ..!*■ , . ... . >•
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 50. —IVo. 2590.
October 2, 1929.
THE POLITICAL DIVORCE COURT.
THE JUDGE: “Now, look here, I believe you’re a Humbug. You ill-treat her; you turn Her out of doors; you’ve got another woman; and yet you resist giving
this one her freedom.”
THE RESPONDENT: “Yes, y’Honor, but she is so handy. Many’s the time, y’Honor, I’ve got more out of the other lady simply by threatenin’ to go back to this one.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
214 George Street, Sydney; Box 252188.
Victoria: 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Regent 5195.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d. ; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: lOoz., Id. United Kingdom.' 4oz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional 40z., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: loz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
JACK LINDSAY’S “HYMNS TO APHRODITE,”
by Hugh McOrae . . .. . . .. 2
HAS AUSTRALIA A SOUL? by R. S. Pant,on 2
THE SOVIET’S “YEAR-BOOK,” by James
Edmond .. .. .. . . 2, 6
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . ..5
THE FRONT-PAGE CARTOON, BY REASON .. 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
Who Wants Civil War? 8
ACROSS AUSTRALIA BY AEROPLANE,
by James Edmond . . . . .. 8
WHAT NATIONALISM OWES TO HUGHES.. 8
THE MADNESS ON THE COALFIELDS .. 8
PROFITS—WHAT ARE THEY? .. ..9
“POOR OLD HORSE,” a Cartoon by Scorfield .. 9
POLITICAL POINTS 10
“Who Said Bruce?”—
A David Low Drawing .. 10
POVERTY POINT 11
“THE PROTECTOR,” a Cartoon by Percival . . 11
PERSONAL 13
(With Caricatures of Dr. Le Fanu, new
Archbishop of Perth; A. C. Morgan,
Speaker Groom’s opponent; Dicky Foster. I
SOCIETY (with drawings) 14, 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..16
Exit the Tivoli .. id
(with sketches of 20 of its greatest
artists: Cinquevalli, Marie Lloyd,
Tich, etc.)
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
TOOHEYS 18
WILCOX MOFFLIN 18
WALKERS 18
McWHIRTERS 18
The Mercantile Bank Fiasco .. 20
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 23, 25
Free Service Department • • .. 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 32
PICKLING WHEAT 28
THE GROWING FRUIT CROP . . . . 28
FARM QUESTIONS ANSWERED .. ..32
SMOKE-OH 34
PEN AND PICTURE 37
ART SHOWS 37
THE INKY WAY 37
SPORTING (illustrated) 39, 41, 42
Hawkesbury Spring Meeting • • .. 39
Moonee Valley .. 39
BUSINESS, ROBBERY 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 45
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 48
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 50
“Paradise Plumes” . . 47, 51, 52
COMPLETE SHORT STORIES—
“THE MIRACLE,” by lon Idriess .. .. 55
“THE McGILLICUDDY,” by Charles Blake 57, 58
“THE WAKE,” by “Hinemoa” . . . . 58
VERSE. —By Mary Gilmore, A. Smith,
R. Crawford .. .. .. • • 55, 58
Next Week.
Three Complete Stories, every one of
which “The Bulletin” recommends:—
“THE ORDEAL,” by W. Charnley.
“BULLDOG BLAKE’S LADY,” by D. W. O. Fagan.
“DOPE,” by Charles S. Gilmour.
“Feng-Shui” will contribute a study of recent
movements in Japan.
[For all matter in this issue requiring a signature
under the Commonwealth Electoral law, where it
is not otherwise specified S. H. Prioh, J. E. Webb
and James Edmond, all of 214 George-street, Syd-
ney, accept the responsibility.]
ffie'tfevlleiz/yt
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1929.
WHO WANTS CIVIL WAR?
Addressing a meeting of union officials
in the Melbourne Trades Hall, Labor-
leader Scullin said, as reported by the
friendly Age:—
“Only two recent cases were quoted show-
ing that awards of the Federal Court had
been disobeyed, and those cases could be met
by the cancellation of the award.”
But could they? Cancellation of awards has
been tried again and again, and always with
tragic futility. It might work if the em-
ployers concerned were free to engage non-
union labor, but this “the movement” does
not permit, nor would Mr. Scullin dare to
suggest it—if he did “the movement” would
soon get another Federal leader. The Water-
side Workers’ Federation denounced the
Beeby award as “pernicious and vicious,”
and threw every public wharf in Australia
idle. The Timber Workers’ Union applied
even harsher language to the Lukin
award, and when ordered by the Court to
vote on the question of a return to work
the Sydney members made a public bonfire
of its ballot-papers and the Judge’s effigy.
How those cases could be met by the
cancellation of the awards Mr. Scullin
did not and cannot explain.
Still, the leader of the Opposition obvi-
ously does regard cancellation of awards as
a penalty; he believes that unions should
respect their awards and that those repudi-
ating them should be punished. But what
of Mr. Theodore? Mr. Theodore glories
in the resistance of the timber-workers, and
presumably of the wharf-laborers as well.
He himself, when Premier of Queensland,
cut the salaries of civil servants and reduced
the pay of every Government laborer when
the State Arbitration Court lowered the
basic wage from £4 ss. to £4 per week.
But the Federal Arbitration Court must
never do anything like that! Its function
is “to maintain, and as far as practicable
improve, the standard of living of the
workers within its jurisdiction.” The most
wage-payers are entitled to, however desper-
ate the plight of their industry, is a draw
—they must never win. Only awards which
comply with these conditions are to be en-
forced. When the Court orders the timber-
industry employers to pay wage-increases
dated back two years, the case having lasted
that long , (as so many of these cases do),
the national authority must see that they
pay; when, in another set of circumstances,
the recipients of the two years’ back pay
are ordered to work 48 hours per week
instead of 44, the national authority must
acquiesce in their refusal and let “solid-
arity” have its fling.
“The award made by Judge Lukin,” says
Mr. Theodore, “was unconscionable. It
took away from the timber-workers the 44-
hour week, which they had enjoyed for
seven years” (as a matter of fact, many of
them had always worked the 48-hour week),
“and no one should be surprised that they
felt resentment and expressed it in the only
way that was left open to them. The
decisions of the Federal Court are not
sacrosanct if they violate the principles of
eternal justice.” The report of this specious
attempt to justify repudiation and industrial
anarchy is taken from the Labor Daily.
In the same paper are periodical lists which
show that the lawless strike has been
financed from the first by 70 or 80 unions
registered under the Federal Arbitration
Act. In keeping with the mental confusion
in which their politicians are groping, all
these unions are striking levies for the
defence of Federal arbitration, as well as
for the attack on it.
Australia borrowed its Federal system
from the U.S.A. In that country an aggres-
sive minority was encouraged to cherish
the same sort of inflated ideas of its own
rights, and the national authority was
allowed to fall into contempt. The result
was the Civil War. It is easy to say that
civil war is impossible in Australia; but the
extreme Labor section joyously predicts a
class war, and class war and civil war are
now the same thing. Moreover, Australian
Labor leaders insist, just like Jeff Davis
and his gang, that the interests or fancied
interests of their minority are greater than
any law; and the bombings and wharf riots
which accompanied the waterside workers’
strike, the mob picketings and bashings
which have marked the strike of timber-
workers, are civil war in its beginnings. The
Bruce-Page Government has done foolish
things and left necessaiy things undone, but
it is right—completely and absolutely right
—in refusing to go on with a system which
was always costly, provocative and ineffi-
cient and has become dangerous. Dangerous
because, without constitutional powers of
enforcement, Government is the sport and
derision of mobs. The national authority
must be strong and respected; so long as
it identifies itself with this arbitration busi-
ness it will be weak and despised.
OUR EMIGRANTS.
Australia, like the Irish Free State, is a
“'fully reciprocating Dominion.” If an
Irishman or Australian settles in Britain,
he is liable to be taxed only once; he pays
in the country of the higher tax. This
is a profitable arrangement for the Irish
Free State, which exports no rich men
nowadays and attracts hundreds of leisured
English residents for its hunting, shooting,
fishing and sport generally. But it is no
good to Australia, which attracts practically
no Britons with large private incomes
except highly-salaried Governors, and ex-
ports thousands of its richest citizens every
year.
Our emigrants, who drain gold out of
the country just as effectively as the U.S.A.
and France are draining it out of England,
divide up roughly into two classes. Ninety
per cent, visit the U.K. periodically, toiling
and saving in Australia after one trip to
amass enough for the next; and, as a rule,
they do not stay away longer than nine
months. An Australian who arrives in
England at the beginning of the British
financial year (April 5) must leave inside
183 days or become liable to assessment
by Somerset House. If he arranges to bring
April into, say, the middle of his visit, a
longer stay can be made, and increasing
numbers of tourists are finding this out and
acting accordingly. The spending power of
Dominion and American tourists has been
estimated by the organisers of the “Come
to Britain” movement at £100,000,000 p.a.,
and every British industry benefits—as
every industry in their homeland suffers.
The remaining 10 per cent, leave Aus-
tralia never to return. They buy proper-
ties in Britain, educate their children there,
and cease to regard their birthplace as any-
thing but a source of revenue. They are
the modern equivalents of the Indian
“nabobs” of Thackeray’s day. At a con-
servative estimate, there are at least 5000
ex-Australians scattered about London and
the British counties who draw an average
of £3OOO p.a. apiece from the Common-
wealth.
Efforts are being made in some of the
States to get a “Come to Australia” move-
ment going—a belated recognition of the
economic and publicity value of the tourist
trade. Under present conditions it is
doomed to failure. A country only becomes
attractive to overseas tourists after the
pioneer work of justifying the existence of
up-to-date hotels, luxurious transport, etc.,
has been done by its own moneyed
nationals—as witness the case of post-war
America. Our pleasure-seeking rich will
never begin to find their pleasures here till
it is made more expensive for them to do
it elsewhere. So-called absentee taxation has
always been more or less futile. Absentees
who are liable under the Commonwealth
land-tax rarely pay; they merely benefit
the steamship companies by making flying
visits every couple of years to perform the
formality of “signing their papers.” A much
more effective method of getting revenue
out of them would be to denounce the
one-sided reciprocity agreement with the
U.K., under which we give Britain the
financial cream of our tourist trade, and
get nothing in return.
The five per cent, tax on steamer tickets
which The Bulletin has already proposed
would be a big revenue-bringer, and no
one would feel it. A director of the Orient
Co. remarked last week that it was cheaper
to travel on the company’s most expensive
vessel than to remain at home—which is
true of most travellers in the £3OOO-a-year
class, and upwards. For protective pur-
poses—to induce rich Australians to spend
some of their superfluous cash in seeing
Australia, as Americans are beginning to
spend theirs in seeing the U.S.A.—a tax on
the sums spent by tourists while abroad
is also needed. And it would be wholly
in accord with the equitable principle that
the burden of taxation should be carried
by the strongest back.
THE FLYING SHIRT-STUD AND THE
DESERT.
Only one thing moves on the surface of
the great, colorless, waterless, treeless, un-
vegetabled immensity, and one above it.
The top object is the 14-passenger aero-
plane trudging at 120 miles per hour on
its beaten track between Adelaide and
Perth. The bottom one is its shadow, which
looks the shape and size of a shirt-stud in
a hurry. Both are lonesome, for birds and
animals are scarce. There is little for a
bird to do in the desert, except squawk
fiercely at the passing aeroplane, and then
sit down on the track to wait for its return,
in the hope that its next effort at train-
wrecking may be more : successful.
Among the big deserts of the world, Aus-
tralia’s is the least historical. This is bad
for the tourist traffic. For reasons best
known to themselves, both Alexander the
Great and Moses avoided it, one result
being the absence of pawnshops and other
places of financial accommodation. The
same might be said of the Polos, that family
of inspired vagrants who had a habit of
swaggering, on mercantile enterprise bent,
from Venice to China, taking the Roof of
the World in their stride. Marco Polo, the
journalist of this tribe of commercial
travellers, left records which have led to
research, in Gobi and elsewhere, for the
towns where he deposited his bundle on the
pub verandah and negotiated a night’s
shelter. It is a matter of profound regret
that this dauntless thirteenth-century wand-
erer didn’t try Central Australia instead
of Central Asia.
The Romans also neglected Central Aus-
tralia, though they didn’t neglect much. The
sands of Sahara have smothered many of
their great works, but apparently nobody
left anything great here for sand to smother.
No wealthy queen, of questionable morality
from these parts is recorded as having called
on Solomon, and thus put the country on
record, though the land doesn’t look so very
much more nefarious in spots than that
which Mrs. Sheba is supposed to have hailed
from.- Our desert is almost the only one
which never sent out wild spearmen
mounted on horses, or even on cows, to
dispute the onward march of civilisation,
two reasons being that they weren’t wild
enough, and that they had no acquaintance
with the art of balancing on animals. An-
other prime misfortune was that the country
never produced a new and world-shaking
religion. This may have arisen through the
lack of a really orthodox mountain which
a prophet could ascend to receive his ortho-
dox revelation. The loftiest hump in Aus-
tralia doesn’t equal Sinai of the Ten Com-
mandments, and that is nothing great as
Arabian ideas go. In fact, our waste pos-
session is just common or garden desert
without frills. It lacks even the distinction
of having been discovered by Captain Cook.
Whether the dismal land is spreading or
not it has certainly spread a great deal too
much already. But it doesn’t lack advant-
ages. Aircraft can traverse it without being
shot at by Semitic brethren of the worst
sort. The lost pedestrian, if such a foolish
individual can be imagined, may wander
over it without fear of being scalped or
of being eaten by anything larger than
ants, which lead a precarious existence here
and there. This compensates for the fact
that Fenimore Cooper wrote no bright
romances about the place. And though there
are some 1400 miles of it from east to west,
it seems to blow about very little, com-
paratively speaking, the surface being
mostly of the gravelly or nailed-down
variety. A slight drawback is the scarcity
of landmarks except the 3ft. 6in. single-
line railway which is heavily mortgaged,
and the ocean which isn’t, strangely enough.
Inferior report has it that a holy hermit
once endeavored to gild the desert with
beauty by establishing himself there as a
teacher and worker of miracles, but, finding
neither a residential cave nor an admiring
audience, he went home to lunch and never
returned. If the hardy real-estate liar ever
tried the Nullarbor Plain he failed to take
root. The only echo which ever endeavored
to live there perished for lack of raw
material.
The aeroplane has brought life and
activity of a fleeting sort into this waste.
It represents portable civilisation. The
management supplies cushioned seats, a
retiring-room where a lady can reconstruct
her back hair, fluff which the voyager can
put in his ears to shut out the drone of
the locomotive, and a liberal allowance of
stout paper-bags for use in case of indiges-
tion. It provides good company; the pas-
sengers are Nature’s noblemen because the
elevation compels high thinking. The
machine ignores the break of gauge, and it
has a knack of cutting off corners that no-
thing else can emulate. Leaving Adelaide
for the West it compresses two days of land
and sea travel into its first 3i hours, taking
about 90 miles of salt water in two strides.
This wholly supersedes the fantastic idea
of a submarine watertight train, stopping at
waterproof stations and with airtight junc-
tions here and there. Should the apparatus
fail to arrive at the halfway pub till after
dark, guiding lights are turned on, and the
pub itself is a blaze of radiance. It sug-
gests that Billy Hughes is having a
birthday, and is greeting himself with the
honor due to himself.
The supreme future of aviation lies in
discovering what gravity consists of, and
in developing the capacity to write off at
will, say, 95 per cent, of it. Among the
few things which the Federal Opposition
hasn’t promised is that it will offer a prize
of £500,000 for a successful weight-reducing
device, to be increased to £1,000,000 if the
invention will reduce the weight of the
public debt among other achievements. The
offer would show a capacity for big inter-
national and inter-planetary ideas, and
would undoubtedly influence the elections
one wav or another.
JAMES EDMOND.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
What Nationalism Owes to Hughes.
“What doesn’t Nationalism owe to Billt
Hughes!” one "of the little man’s enthu-
siastic supporters asked in North Sydney
the other night. The Bulletin doesn’t
know that, but it does know that Nation-
alism owes to him the things it would be
best without.
When Hughes organised Nationalism he
did it on the lines of the party he had left,
these being the only lines he knew. Dis-
sentients were given to understand that
they would get no more mercy from the
Dictator than he expected from his old
associates.
Having at last got rid of Mr. Hughes
and his War Precautions legislation,
Nationalism had a chance to get rid also
of the Prussianised theories which had made
Labor a bitter pill for freedom-lovers, even
when it stood for such inspiring national
policies as citizen service and an Australian
navy. Instead, the party hung on to its
alien top-hamper in the way of pre-selection,
centralised official control, etc. And it
wasn’t even consistent in the matter. A
Laborite who opposes an endorsed candi-
date or otherwise runs counter to the poli-
cies of the party’s bosses knows what to
expect. But under the half-hearted dis-
ciplinary system of Nationalism, the surest
way for an outsider to get endorsed in
perpetuity for a strong Nationalist seat is
to win it from an endorsed Nationalist;
and, once in Parliament, his surest method
of getting a Nationalist portfolio is to
attack Nationalist Ministers. Every intelli-
gent elector knows that if Mr. Marks had
been given a job in the Bruce Ministry he
would not be opposing his party now, and
every intelligent Sydneyite, Labor or
Nationalist, knows that any “People’s
Party” candidate who can win a Nationalist
seat from a Nationalist candidate can be
sure of being taken into the fold later on
if he wants to be.
Modern Nationalism is thus cursed with
a system which, being quite alien to it, it-
will not consistently stand by; and so it is
between two stools. If it ran a logical
caucus system—if its machine said, “Once
an anti-Nationalist, always an anti-
Nationalist,” and stuck to it—then, at least,
Nationalist Ministries would cease to be
plagued by disappointed place-hunters and
other malcontents who turn snipers. But
it doesn’t; and all these snipers know it.
Of course the real cure is not more regi-
mentation, but less. Anti-Labor got on well
in the past, wherever it had a good pro-
gramme and good men to effectuate it,
without recourse to the caucus methods
which Hughes fastened upon it and of
which it really thinks so little that, rather
to its credit than otherwise, it is prepared
to forget them whenever a convenient
opportunity offers.
4
The Madness on the Coalfields.
The prolonged dislocation of the coal in-
dustry of northern N. S. .Wales doesn't
seem any nearer an end now that a Royal


POOR OLD HORSE!
DAD: “Well, Mother, I think he’s about done. And I’ve give him every bloomin’ thing anybody ever suggested.”
MUM: “Yes, Dad. Maybe too many medicines ain’t good for ’orses. Perhaps we’d oughter have stuck to one.”
Commission has reported upon the profits
of the owners. Somebody promised that
if it were shown that these profits were less
than 3s. a ton the miners would submit to
a reduction of wages by the amount the
profits were less than 35., with a limit of
Is. per ton. Now, however, that the aver-
age profits are declared to be 2s. 1.6 d. the
miners’ leaders, encouraged by the possi-
bility of a Federal Labor victory, protest
that the Commission has charged income-
tax, child endowment and workers’ compen-
sation against earnings, and that this is
most improper, though Heaven only knows
what else it could be charged against.
Furthermore, that the inquiry was in
camera, as such inquiries necessarily must
be, so that the Commission may have been
diddled or may even have joined in a con-
spiracy to fake the figures. The position
therefore is as it was before Commissions
or Government intervention wore thought
of—the miners’ leaders won’t accept any
reduction in the rate of pay, though, as
seems probable, earnings would be much
higher if the rate of pay were much lower.
Of course nothing much will be done in
this as in so many other matters until after
the unnecessary general election which Cor-
poral Hughes and his company of snipers
have forced upon us. Nothing will be
done because political capital would be
made out of whatever might be done. After
October 12, however, the State should make
one thing clear by resolution of Parliament:
that no Government dole will be paid in
any district where a strike is in progress
unless that strike has been voted upon
and authorised by a clear majority of the
workers actually concerned in it.
A month ago The Bulletin appointed
its own Commission, which made careful
inquiries in Cessnock, Kurri and other West
Maitland towns. The Commissioner was
satisfied that even at that time there was
a large majority who wanted to go to work,
and would have gladly done it on terms
certainly no better than those now offered.
4>
Mostly About a Dear Old
Septuagenarian.
W. A. Holman got to the heart of it in his
admirable little study of “The Australian
Constitution:—
“Matters which the States have no certainty
of doing, in the present state of the authori-
ties, are these:—
“(1) They cannot legislate with finality on
any industrial topic. Their legislation may
at any moment be over-ridden by awards of
the Federal Arbitration Court. ,
“(2) They cannot sot up an Industrial
Court which may not be directed by the
Federal Court at any time to abandon what-
ever inquiry it is engaged upon.
“(3) They cannot fix with any certainty
the salaries of their own servants.”
But while Federal arbitration is thus con-
tinually in the way of State arbitration,
it is not itself able to finalise any matter
because it is without means of enforcing its
orders.
Further, so long as there are two authori-
ties in the field the business must be sur-
rounded by red tape; the Constitution
imposes limitations on each, and there must
always be lawyers on hand to see that those
limitations are observed. So the whole
business has passed out of the hands of
plain business men into the hands of gentle-
men who split hairs for fees.
Finally, we send men into the State
Parliament to carry into effect the political
opinions of a self-governing people; we go
to a great deal of trouble to do this, and
spend tens of thousands on every general
election. And then we find that the Federal
Arbitration Court has taken the control of
the State railways and other things out of
the State’s hands though leaving the State
with all the debt.
Most of us have an idea that we tax
ourselves; and we don’t. The Federal
Judge who fixes wages and labor conditions
of the State employees fixes our taxes also.
For several years past one nice old gentle-
man named Quick —John Quick, LL.D.—
has been deciding what railway men shall
get and under what conditions they shall
work. Treasurers may draw up their
Budgets, providing for so much taxation in
order to meet so much expenditure; but
the nice old gentleman, who is an LL.D.,
and who represents nobody, decides whether
the taxation shall be increased or decreased
—and it is mostly increased.
So by virtue of the Federal Arbitration
law, John Quick, LL.D., temporary Judge
and dear old septuagenarian gentleman, is
set over the people and their Parliamentary
representatives. And Mr. Hughes and Mr.
Theodore fight to keep him there—in the
name of democracy!
*
Profits—What Are They?
If it does nothing else the Coal Commis-
sion may get a few more people to see that
business profits are not something that you
can measure with a footrule or a gallon
billy. What companies and others call
their profits are at best, in 99 cases out of
a hundred, merely an estimate; whether the
estimate will be realised depends on maybe
a thousand contingencies.
In the case of a shop, for example, there
is, first, the stock in hand to be considered.
You may know what you paid for it; but
it may now be old-season goods, or it may
be unsaleable for other reasons.. By every
penny that you over-value the stock you
inflate your so-called profit for the year by
one penny; and, unless you do the same
thing next year, you must pay for over-
stating your profit in one year by under-
stating it in the following year. And there
are book debts, too; if you count in as
good what prove to be bad, you have in-
flated one year’s profits at the expense of
one or more of its successors.
But it is when you come to plant and
what are called fixed assets that mistakes
are very liable to be made. You buy a
machine which will last, you believe, 10
years. You therefore charge against your
gross earnings each year one-tenth of what
the machine cost you. But if your com-
petitor has put in a newer machine and is
thereby underselling you, then it may be
that you will have to scrap your machine
in five years. Instead, therefore, of charg-
ing each year’s gross earnings with one-
tenth of the cost of the machine, you should
have charged one-fifth of the cost. And
because you did not do it in the earlier
years you must throw the burden on the
later years; the profits will have been over-
stated to begin with, and now they must be
under-stated to square things.
The Commission agreed that replacements
must be charged against earnings; in other
words, that the industry must pay for the
machinery, etc., it consumes. Which was
right. But it refused to admit that a
sinking fund should be provided out of
earnings; and that was as wrong as any-
thing could be. A man goes to the market
and buys a few cases of apples, and the
price he pays works out at 2d. each. He
hires a barrow and an assistant and retails
his fruit. Now the Coal Commission says
in effect that, though it is quite right for
him, in arriving at his profit, to deduct
from his takings the hire _ of the barrow
and the wage of his assistant, he must not
deduct what he paid for the apples! It
is true that Courts have decided that coal
cos. are not called upon to establish sinking
or amortisation funds for the return of
capital when the mine has been exhausted.
But that only throws the onus upon the
shareholder, “Here,” the directors say in
effect, “is a certain sum of money which
we have received from the sale of part of
your property. Part of this money is profit;
another part of it is - certainly not profit
but conversion of assets. How much is
profit is a matter of opinion; we shall not
attempt to determine it; each of you must
settle it for himself.” . But that does not
justify any Commission in assuming that the
money was all profit because the Courts have
permitted and even encouraged directors
to shirk the responsibility of separating the
profit paid to a shareholder from the capital
returned to him.
Fortunately the finding of the Commis-
sion on this matter is not a judicial finding
and has no authority in other proceedings.
But it may carry weight. Especially is it
liable to carry weight among that consider-
able section which already believes that the
profits of industry are far greater than they
actually are. For that reason the account-
ants’ societies within N. S. Wales might
do a great public service by declaring
whether and to what extent they accept
the Commission’s finding, in effect, that you
needn’t trouble about what the barrowman
paid for the apples in determining what
profit he made from, the sale of them.
♦
Our One-party Country.
“Sol M.”: There are three parties in the
Federal Parliament; and Hughes’s party,
which isn’t a party, but is composed of tem-
porary dissenters from other parties, may
be said to make four; and Windeyer’s
People’s party, which is a non-party party
allegedly designed to abolish party, may
make five. But amid all this complication
there is no anti-borrowing party or indi-
vidual, and considering that the Federal
debt now costs £5 ss. 7d. per cent, in
interest, the want of an anti-loan crowd is
shocking. If everybody, including the Inde-
pendent, and the Independent Labor man,
and the Independent Nationalist, is afraid
to put real financial reform on his pro-
gramme lest he should get no votes, then it
is possible that the demoralisation of the
people is more responsible for our troubles
than the form, or husk, or shell of adminis-
tration.
It is a fairly widespread impression that
the adoption of the system used in Switzer-
land would do wonders. I have my doubts
about it. The Swiss Federal Legislature
elects the Federal Ministry, seven strong,
in a joint sitting of the two Houses, for
three years or the term of Parliament. There
are parties in plenty, and the Swiss Minis-
ters were, by common consent, chosen from
two of them till 1891, when a third crowd
became important enough to demand repre-
sentation. The seven Ministers must come
from seven different provinces, and by
common consent Berne and Zurich are
always two of the seven. The Ministers may
be Parliamentary outsiders when origin-
ally elected, just as the Pope may be a
layman at the time of election, but neither
theory has any influence on the situation.
The Swiss member who is elected a Minister
is promptly thrown out of his Parliamentary
membership, but he can attend either House
(without a vote) and address it on any
subject, and if one of his colleagues follows
with an address of an absolutely opposite
character, it is all in the day’s work. By
common consent the Minister isn’t habitu-
ally made a target for interruption or abuse
while stating his case. It isn’t considered
good form to oppose a Minister who wants
re-election, and there is very little to be
gained except the modest salary by doing
so, especially as the portfolio holder isn’t
allowed to phrsue any gainful occupation
as a side-line.
The Swiss method shows how the party
system is compatible with a cow-like calm
in politics, and it would suit Australia very
well if the Australian politician was in the
least suited to it and had a semblance of the
cow-like instinct. But our Billies aren’t
that kind of material.
An alternative to the Swiss method is
that of the United States, where the Presi-
dent appoints the Ministers with the
consent of the Upper House, and they
consist entirely of men outside Parliament.
Under this system a Billy Hughes and a
Scullin and a Theodore might plot and
rave and concoct dark schemes for years
and get no closer to office, even if office
was much worth having.
Just now Scullin, who is a party leader,
and Windeyer, who wants to lead an anti-
party party, have taken up the cry that the
great essential for Australia’s re-birth is
to abolish the States and everything con-
nected with them including their arbitra-
tion courts, and run everything from the
unsuccessful village of Canberra. It would
probably take 1000 years and a revolution
to bring unification about, though 100
years and a complete change of national
character might suffice to end the system
by which Ministerial changes come about
through leaders doing bear-garden antics
in the legislative halls. Yet party rule and
legislation and corruption might remain
even if Ministers were out of Parliament,
and bear-gardening ceased, if the community
was that kind of community.
The supreme misfortune is that every
faction and combination, State and Federal,
and every politician who claims to have
shaken off the trammels and hoisted the
banner of freedom really belongs to the same
old begging, borrowing association. Aus-
tralia is a one-party nation, and that is the
wrong party, and while there is no improve-
ment it is of no vast importance whether
its politics are machine-made or hand-made.


A
nt
BALANCE —the principle underlying the success-
ful construction of the world’s massive bridges —is
also the guiding principle in blending the ideal
motor fuel
SHELL
The Well - Balanced
Motor Spirit
POLTICAL
POINTS
The question has been raised whether
Hughes and his fellows had an arrangement
with the Labor party that if they brought
about a crisis and it led to a dissolution
they would have no Labor opposition in their
electorates. In other words, did they stipu-
late for the Labor vote as their reward, or
did they just take a dashing chance? Theo-
dore has replied that, though Hughes, Marks
and Stewart have got the Labor vote, no
bargain of the sort was made at Canberra.
Well, was it made somewhere else?
W. M. Hughes says he is a Nationalist,
he is getting the Labor vote, and he is
speaking for Windcyer, E.C., the People’s
party candidate. “You are not like Cer-
berus, three gentlemen at once, are you”?
When it was clear that John Quick (born
1852) could not deal with all the claims
for increased wages on the State railways,
which are losing six millions a year, the
loco, enginemen’s case against the Vic.
Railway Commissioners and others was
handed over to Judge Drake-Brockman,
sometime barrister and Senator. The hear-
ing was commenced in October last year.
Evidence has been heard in N. S. Wales,
Victoria (it took 35 days to examine one
Victorian witness), Tas. and S.A. His
Honor, in pursuit of his inquiries, is now
inspecting railway lines in the Ma State.
Such is Federal arbitration.
Bob Cook, who threw away the Indi
(Vic.) seat by the crude process of being
late with his nomination-paper, will be one
of three Cocky candidates this time. Friends
arc running his campaign for him, the be-
lated man being abroad. Cook devoted some
of his time in England to a call on
Dominions Minister Passfield, to whop he
complained that some of the British immi-
grants received here are of a very low stand-
ard. Passfield naturally hinted in reply that
Australia House, which costs £Bl,OOO per
annum for upkeep, shouldn’t pass degen-
erates if it doesn’t want them.
This being a time of economy in Queens-
land, when even the salaries of members are
cut down, Lieutenant-Governor William
Lennon has been requested to forego his
salary of £lOOO per annum and content him-
self with £l5OO a year while acting in his
Excellency’s absence. In between times he
will rest at home gratis. William was a
Labor member for 13 years, Minister for four
years, and had spells as Speaker and as
President of the Upper House till it was
abolished. He has had 91 years as Lieut.-
Gov., and now, at the age of 80, he can look
back and say that the world isn’t wholly
rotten.
A set-back on the Rural Bank Bill has
made the McPherson Ministry’s gait wobbly
again. Bailey moved an amendment to em-
power the bank to carry on as a trading con-
cern (with deposits, cheques and all the
other paraphernalia), and won by a majority
of one. Labor was reinforced by the four
Rural Progs, and one Cocky (Old) ; Spea-
eock, having no fantastic scruples, like Little-
ton Groom, voted with the Ministry.
McPhairson had progress reported on the
bill, but went on with another measure, and
kept the House going till 2.30 a.m.
No Vic. Ministry seems to be able to
draft a Rural Bank Bill that can command
an Assembly majority. Labor failed, and now
Nationalism has been rebuffed. Apart from
that, the McPhairsons have been forcibly
reminded how helpless they are without a
dependable majority. It looks as if Vie.
electors will have to mark two lots of ballot-
papers within a month or so—Federal in
October ; State in November.
The liquidation of a mass of State assets
after a jag in public enterprise is always
a difficult business. It may be possible to
buy mines or Ships or cow stations or estates
for settlement for, say, £40,000 and put them
down as assets worth £90,000, the £50,000
difference being split up among influential
and possibly eloquent parties. But if the
asset is sold for £40,000 no power on earth
can make that look like £90,000, for the
scheme isn’t reversible. And if the property
has acquired a bad name as a money-losing
concern it is all the more difficult to realise
even the £40,000.
“We want to be like America,” bleated
the new Australian Trade Commissioner in
the U.S.A. “We study everything Ameri
can's do and endeavor to imitate them.”
We don’t: we study and imitate only the
American things that don’t matter; we
neglect the ones that do matter. The
U.S.A. has a genuine Protective tariff;
“WHO SAID BRUCE?”
its imports per inhabitant are little
more than a fourth of ours; its exports
exceed its imports instead of the posi-
tion being the other way about; it doesn’t
borrow money abroad ; it believes in piece-
work • rather than day labor; and. it hasn’t
got a craze for artificial wage-fixing, hour-
fixing and price-fixing. On all these points it
is a splendid example to Australia, but the
splendid example is wasted on us.
Among the numerous personalities and
dead cats of a virulent election, Theodore
contributed the statement that the Bruep
Government was poking a curious nose into
his private affairs in Queensland and over-
hauling his back income-tax papers. Bruce’s
reply was that lie knew nothing of the busi-
ness, but he reminded Theodore that Moore,
now Premier, promised at last State elec-
tion that, if returned to power, he would
look into the affairs of persons responsible
for the expenditure of public money on the
Mungana purchase and other matters of
the sort. As Moore had attained power
Bruce reckoned he might be keeping his
word, which was reasonable enough, Moore
being a man of energy.
One of H'ughes’s extraordinary followers
is almost certain to be missing when the
next Parliament meets. Westralian Labor,
by nominating little Needham, has made it
next to impossible for Mann to win. To do
so the Freetrade gentleman would have to
beat Nairn, the Nationalist, on the first
count, and the odds against his doing so are
at least 50 to 1. There is a chance of Need-
ham slipping in between Nairn and Mann,
but it is anything but rosy. Not since 1906
has Perth elected a Labor man.
Members of the late Queensland Labor
Ministry must have felt a premonition of the
end. The State keeps a fleet of cars in
being for the use of Cabineteers and high
officials, but in the last 10 months of the
McCormack reign £2217 of public money
was spent in hiring cars from other people.
Going into the increase of taxation during
14 years of the Labor regime, Treasurer
Barnes works it out at 389,25 per cent. On
the Chillagoe State smelters, which was
Theodore’s pet show, capital and trading
losses are estimated at £928,300.
According to the moving-picture “indus-
try’s” own figures, Australia pays Holly-
wood £BOO,OOO a year in film-hire alone.
Bruce proposes to take per cent, of the
amount (whatever it is) for the Australian
tax-revenue. Federal Labor, now in alliance
with Hollywood, not only condemns this very
reasonable impost, but says it will “abolish
the amusements tax.” Theodore, who gave
this ignoble pledge, suggested, as an alter-
native to taxing foreign exploiters, still higher
rates on incomes earned in Australia. “Why
shouldn’t a man with £lO,OOO a year pay
£1500,” he shouted, “or even £2000?” Bruce
replied that the £lo,ooo-a-year man already
pays as much as £3067 on income personally
earned, and £3600 on income from property.
Britain’s Uncle Arthur Henderson has got
so far with the polite Soviet ambassador
that the latter promised to “recognise” his
country’s debt to Britain, though not to pay
anything on account. He further promised
that the Bolsheviks would cease meddling
with British politics. At this critical
moment the Third International issued
instructions to all “comrades” in England
that Henderson’s Government was a traitor
to the proletarian cause, and must be obli-
terated. The Bolsheviks’ view is that the
revolution is doomed to failure if it stays
still in its corner and doesn’t spread. So
just when a polite ambassador with a clean
collar has nearly pacified somebody, they
feel bound to explain to their friends that it
is not the cause he is betraying, but the
stupid foreign bourgeoisie.
Parramatta district, being nice and handy
to Sydney, gets some queer public works. In
one case a Government was in such a hurry
to start a railway before a general election
arrived that men were rushed on to the job
and the top was cut off the wrong rise. In
another case a line was built to Rogan’s
Hill, mostly to provide scraps of employ-
ment; and now that it has been decided to
tear it up because it can’t earn wind for the
guard’s whistle, it is found that there never
was any Parliamentary sanction for laying it
down. So far as the law is concerned it appa-
rently doesn’t exist; but though the Govern-
ment may lose money in maintaining the non-
existent, it is advised that it mustn’t spend
any on abolishing the non-existent. The
advice some Governments get doesn’t do
them much credit.
A man isn’t necessarily a great statesman
or even a great politician because he is a
great something else. The very qualities
that made the Duke of Wellington a great
soldier made him a poor Prime Minister ;
and there were brilliant fighters in the A.I.F.
who would make a mess of almost anything
else. Yet because Billy Hughes was incom-
parable in some situations there are lots of
people who assume that he must be a great
statesman. Australia never had a finer bar-
gainer than Billy; and it was that which
made him the finest executive officer any
Australian union ever had. His nimbleness
of brain and tongue, his audacity, his utter
lack of scruple in putting his case or demol-
ishing the other man’s made him a superb
negotiator—especially if those he was nego-
tiating with hadn’t -met him before. But
that isn’t statesmanship. Quite a different
sort of brain is wanted for that job.
The idea of re-establishing a “national
home” for the Jews in Palestine shows signs
of fizzling out. Palestine is less than half
the size of Tasmania, and is short of
minerals and harbors, while three-fourths
of the population consists of Mohammedans
with a title 700 years old which came to
them by conquest, the same as the Jewish
one. Rich and sentimental Hebrews sup-
plied the means to promote a good deal of
Hebrew settlement between 1922 and 1920.
Still, while the race, fostered by much outside
money and sympathy, increased by 64,000, the
Mohammedans multiplied by 58,000. In
1927 the Hebrew influx was 2713, and the
outflow was 5071. Palestine is a bare, small,
hungry home for any nation, especially for
one that wants to do business.
Though Rhodesia has steadfastly refused
to join the South African Union it has had
a tariff arrangement with its big brother
for a generation. The Union Government
now proposes to clap a stiff duty on
Rhodesian tobacco. The Rhodesian leaf
excels all other South African tobacco for
cigarette-making, and the Boer growers of
the Magaliesberg and the Bushveldt have
put the screw on Hertzog. The Rhodesians
threaten to retaliate by taxing all Union
goods taken across the Limpopo, but Hertzog
will be given a month or two to think things
over.
Twenty years ago or thereabouts “the line
of demarcation” caused as much trouble
among some unions—the two engineering
concerns, the boilermakers, the ironworkers’
assistants, the painters and the ship-painters
especially—as did direct disputes with the
boss. Bit by bit wages boards and the like
ironed out the differences, and some of the
unions simplified things by amalgamating.
Now ironworkers and painters are at logger-
heads regarding jobs on the Sydney Harbor
Bridge. The ironworkers have won high wages
for toil on the flying arms now beginning to
reach towards one another, and, claiming
that painters only apply the finishing touches,
hope to keep all this well-paid employment
for themselves. If precedent is followed the
bridge will be declared a ship—and the land-
lubbing variety of painter is excluded from
ships.
Hypothetical cash is being thrown about
lavishly by Federal Labor politicians. Scullin
has promised to annul the proposed extra
amusement tax and the tax on mutual life
assurance offices, to find a pot of money
with which to subsidise the goldmining indus-
try, to supply a steamboat service between
the mainland and Tasmania, to find the
means for an unemployment scheme, to in-
crease the payments under employees’ com-
pensation and seamen’s compensation, and
to put the tough old problem of the unified
railway gauge right up to the front. Theodore
cheerfully undertakes to continue the good
work; he promises to remove the new im-
posts on drink and tobacco, and hints at the
acquisition of another Commonwealth Ship-
ping Line to replace Hughes’s disastrous
spec. He hasn’t mentioned anything about
cattle stations and butchers’ shops; but The
Bulletin knows where he could get a few of
them very cheap. Perhaps Theodore knows
too.
“Sol M.”: Billy Hughes asked for and
secured election as a Nationalist. For a long
time, thinking himself not properly appre-
ciated, he voted and grunted against his party.
In the end he led an attack on it for doing
what he himself had advocated in his_ last
days of office, it chancing to be an issue
which would command the support of the
Labor party and a few snipers as well. As
a reward he gets the Labor vote at North
Sydney, and fiercely demands the National-
ist nomination and vote. The position
would have been somewhat the same if
Hughes had been a British general in the
late war, and had claimed the right to go
over to the Germans with such forces as
he could influence if at any time his con-
science told him, or he said it did, that the
Germans were in the right. Either as a
politician or a general he would be assert-
ing the rights of the free and independent
individual against the tyranny of the party
machine.
A SUDDEN AWAKENING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O blessfed word and blesshd Court!
O precious Arbitration,
And more especially the sort
Provided by the nation!
What though we’ve seemed askance to eye
And scurvily to use you,
With anguished yells we’ll split the sky
Before we’ll bear to lose you.
’Fore God, we’ll know the reason why
If we should have to lose you!
In strikes once lay our sole resource.
You brought us the assurance
Of better arguments than force
Or weapons than endurance.
They say to disregard we chose
The judgments you dispensed us.
’Tis false! We only jibbed at those
Awards that went against us.
They must be, ev’rybody knows,
Unsound to go against U 3.
Sometimes we burn in effigy
A Judge, with scornful curses;
Or hang him on an apple-tree
(In comminative verses).
Yet louder curses he invites
And deeper detestation
Who’d rob the worker of his rights
To Fed’ral Arbitration.
A flame throughout the land he lights
Who threatens Arbitration.
O blesshd Court, we bring disputes
Industrial before you,
And do your bidding when it suits,
And, when it doesn’t, ignore you.
When leaders say to disobey
With right goodwill we flout you.
But, oh! it fills us with dismay
To think of your being swept away,
We couldn’t do without yon.
Hell’s hobs, we’ll stage a passion play
Before we go without you!
214 GEORGE-STREET.
A. HAYWARD.


Poverty
Point
THE PROTECTOR.
THE MAN BEHIND: “That’s right, girls! You stand in front of me, and I’ll see that the vicious brute doesn’t bite you.
“C. 8.”: The people who are using their
theatres for political propaganda in Melbourne
are not having things all their own way. The
other evening at Melb. Athenmum, when a
lugubrious gentleman began demonstrating
from the screen, an indignant patron in the
d.-c. arose and passionately pointed out that
he had come not to hear about the iniquities
of the Bruce-Page Government and the
wicked persecution of the moving picture
magnates, but to be entertained. The manage-
ment stopped the film, waited until the in-
dignant individual had resumed his seat and
then started the infliction off again, with
the same result. .After two or three repeti-
tions of this sort of thing the protestant had
the audience on his side. Applause greeted
his interjections and finally # the political
talkie was given up as a bad job
“Nemo”: Harry Rickards, who reigned
when the just departed Sydney Tivoli was
in its prime, was in the turn “H'arry and
Carrie Rickards,” singing in the old Sydney
School of Arts Hall (now the library) in
the early ’seventies. Later in the Cold Coun-
try I often saw him. He was one of the
“Lion Comique” tribe, now extinct, and had
for compeers Arthur Roberts (still living,
I believe), “The Great MacDermott” (who
introduced the word “Jingoism”), George
Leybourn, Fred Coyne and others. The
blight of respectability had not yet doomed
the ’alls. Waiters circulated, enticing patrons
to consume spirituous and fermented liquors.
Harry was advertised variously as “tne
greatest vocal comedian on earth,” and the
“best-dressed man in the profession.” He
lived up to that. In the street he was a
vision of sartorial perfection, and a colored
man-servant followed deferentially in his
steps. On the stage he was very popular,
and indulged in playful badinage with his
audience. In his earlier days he sometimes
had trouble to make the Ghost walk. His
turning-point was the “Tarara Room de Ay
Lament,” a skit on the then most popular
song, put on with chorus and ballet. After
that he never looked back.
“Carrick, A. 8.” : In their version of Con-
rad’s story “The Rescue” the Yankee, film
producers have done an amazing, thing—
given us a picture true to the book in almost
every detail, right down to the “unhappy”
ending. There are faults—wireless was
unknown at the time of Conrad’s tale; the
mate, when ordered to put the ship about,
does so by ordering the Malay at the wheel
to put the helm hard over without ordering
the watch to man the braces; and a fine
dramatic moment was spoilt when Jorgen-
sen, after pressing the lighted end of his
cigar to the fuse, in the half-minute before
he was blown into eternity, did not use
Conrad’s words: “I shall never see snow
again.” But “The Rescue” is the only film
I’ve deliberately gone to see three times, and
I’ve done so because Conrad has been fol-
lowed with amazing fidelity.
“Hamfat”: That quaint organisation, the
Habinah Art Theatre, once of Moscow, is
on a world-tour, which should include Aus-
tralia. The members devote themselves to
their art, living upon a communal basis and
shying clear of all outside interests. Under
the Bolsheviks they found life in Russia
rough, and had difficulty in getting out
of the country. For 18 months they have
lived in Palestine, but their stay there has
not been an unqualified success, one reason
being the Palestinian. Jews’ objection to
tampering with the accepted details of Scrip-
tural episodes, with which many of their
plays deal. Apparently their class of high-
born art pays no better even in Europe
than does repertory here. They depend to
a good extent on donations. Max Warburg,
the German-Jewish philanthropist, has just
offered £lOOO p.a. for three years, and others
substantially help.
“Magis”: An interesting experiment of a
London paper was the entrusting of the
criticism of a concert to a celebrated medium.
Branscombe’s Westminster Glee Singers,
well-known in Australia, were the objects of
the experiment. According to the medium,
the immediate effect of the singing was to
clear an area of the vitiated London atmos-
phere at the mental and emotional levels.
Into this purified area rushed numbers of
angels, nature-spirits and sylphs, who bathed
in the music with manifest delight. When
the soprano boys sang, the spirits clustered
right down on to the platform. As the
programme proceeded, an angelic figure of
great majesty and power took its stand along-
side the conductor and the auras of all
present were “toned up and cleansed.
Towards the end the strain of all these
presences became almost too much for the
audience, unused to such manifestations, but
a comic song fortunately broke the spell. By
the time the National Anthem arrived the
influence of the concert had spread for a
distance of half a mile all round the hall.
llow the occultist calculated his distances
wasn’t stated, but his method of interpreting
the music would be a godsend to the every-
day critic obliged to employ the same old
overworked adjectives again and again.
“Lysander”: When the new Sherlock
Holmes talkie featuring Olive Brook comes to
Australia and Maoriland, theatregoers
will recognise in the cast an old acquain-
tance, Rosemary Rees, actress and authoress,
a M.L. native who played in Australia during
the first Vanbrugh and Bates Post seasons.
Miss Rees, one of whose first novels appeared
in serial form in the Woman’s Mirror,
went to U.S.A. to place new offspring of
her pen, and took the chance while in New
York to “walk on” in “Sherlock Holmes”:
a maid’s part with a few lines announcing
the great detective. In the Mirror she
describes the novelty and unexpectedness of
talkie work.
“L.H.P.”: Designed by Backhouse and
Backhouse (also the architects for the
Lyceum, Cri. and Palace) and built by
Alex. Stuart, the just passed Sydney Tivoli
was run up in what was then world’s record
time for theatrical building jobs. The con-
tract was signed on Nov. 18, 1899, and com-
pleted on April 12, 1900. The seating iVas
d.-c., 200; stalls, 480; gallery, 500. The
opening prices were 35., 25., Is., and Paul
Martinette and his co. were the star attrac-
tion —at £2OO a week, so the publicity stuffer
said. Rickards staged a great pantomime,
“Puss in Boots,” the following Christmas,
with Billie Barlow, Harry Shine, the Hay-
tors, Noni Rickards and other good folk in
the cast. Rickards died in 1911.
“Cine Ma”: I hate to suggest it, but I
cannot help wondering whether, when “A.
Major” (B. 11/9/’29) declares that “music
has no meaning except what a hearer puts
into it,” he is not assuming an artistic
immaturity which he does not possess. Ob-
viously one does not get the original sensation
out of the “Blue Danube” when one is too old
to be allowed to cuddle a fair girl in one’s
arms; but only the musically obtuse will
claim that that alters the fact that the
“Blue Danube” definitely expresses the sen-
timents of romantic youth. “A. Major”
should have attended a children’s concert
given in Melbourne the other afternoon by
Prof. Heinze. Quite properly the young-
sters remained quite deaf to tire philosophic
or emotional appeal of music that was
beyond their intellectual grasp; but when
the orchestra broke into the powerful
rhythms of Elgar’s “Pomp and Circum-
stance” they broke into spontaneous ap-
plause.
“Cauboy”: There have been rows, too, in
Australia over the question of national opera
(B. 25/9/’29). When the Firm staged
“Thais” during the last season in Melbourne,
the beautiful Scavizzi was indescribably
peeved because John Brownlee insisted on
singing his role in French, the language in
which it was originally written. She main-
tained that it was the Australian’s duty to
learn it all over again in Italian. As neither
would give way Athanael wooed Thais in
French and she rebuffed him in Italian. It
was all one to the audience, however.
“C. Ma”: The British talkie films are
not going to allow the ancient literary monu-
ments go out of the country after the statues
and the Shakspeare folios. In some instances
they have offered twice as much as Ameri-
can concerns for the film rights of celebrated
plays and stories, and a huge number are
already hypothecated.
“T.P.”: Alf G. Lumsden, who went west
recently, before taking to the professional
stage as Carl Czerny, prestidigateur, was a
leading member of the board of directors,
A.N.A., and the most popular visitor to
district branches, because, when, interest
flagged in his statement of finance, he could
always find half-crowns in the local presi-
dent’s hair. He wrote a three-act Aus-
tralian melodrama, which filled the Academy
of Music, Ballarat, for a week. As a young
lover he led a grief-stricken damsel through
strenuous adversity to the haven of stage
matrimony. The lady afterwards became
Williamson’s leading operatic artist, Juliet,
Wray. Alf’s brother' Archie has just re-
tired as a first-class head teacher (Vic.).
“Nomber Satu” : Nowhere is the decay of
theatregoing better illustrated than in the i
advertising columns of the dailies. Of “Jour- j
ney’s End” the advt. says that “though a
play of the war, it has nothing of the hor-
ror or bitterness of war. Moreover, it con-
tains a genuine comedy that brings countless
laughs. Packed with thrills and laughs, this 1
high-tension play makes a sure-fire appeal to
all classes of playgoer’s.” When it has a
good play, the Firm goes after its same old
mystery-play public—as if that type would
care tuppence about SherrifiPs masterpiece.
“Gudah Habis”: Melbourne’s orchestra
boom has gripped the juveniles now. _ When
Bernard Heinze announced a series of
kiddies’ concerts at the Town Hall the other
day he was snowed under by 12,000 appli-
cations from the schools.
“Angus O’Colien”: The relative reactions
of the public to the talkies and the legit, were
curiously demonstrated at Wellington (_M.L.)
recently. The colored Kentucky singers,
stars on the Grand Opera House bill, had,
before leaving the States, made a talkie,
which by a coincidence was on the pro-
gramme of a Wellington picture-house during
their appearance at the other house. The
public flocked to the movie.
“Cauboy”: One reason for Frank Neil s
sensational change of fortune when he turned
to “Charley’s Aunt,” four years ago, was the
fact that a picture of the piece, with Syd
Chaplin in the leading rOlc, was being simul-
taneously screened in Melbourne. The advts.
of the rival shows helped both of them.
Which makes me wonder why the Firm
should have gone out of its way and deep
into its pocket to induce a movie house to
postpone the distribution ef “Show Boat”
until the Melbourne run of the legitimate
version had got well under way at H'is
Majesty’s.
“Opanass” (New Hebrides) : We can
claim that the talkies have arrived in the
Pacific Isles. At Vila, where Britain and
France rule with a condominium (locally
known as pandemonium) Government, the
one and only movie house screened “Ole
Bill,” with the sub-titles in English. For
the benefit of the. French citizens an inter-
preter was stationed at the back of the
hall, and as the English words were flashed
on the screen this human “talkie” trans-
lated.
“C. 8.” : The plight of the legitimate stage
is largely of its own making. Producers
persist in fighting the screen with the screen’s
chosen weapon—namely, expensive spectacle.
Although “Show Boat” has only had a brief
run at Melb. His Majesty’s and still draws
good houses, “Rose Marie” is already in
rehearsal. The over-elaborate staging has been
costing the Firm £3OOO-odd per week, and it
takes a lot of audience to cover that figure.
“Journey’s End,” with its one set of scenery
and its handful of male characters, is pro-
bably paying better dividends.
“Vraidex”: The Brisbane Repertory
Theatre Society is fast growing out of the
“amateur theatrical” class. Its latest effort
was “Captain Brassbound’s Conversion,” the
third Shaw play the society has performed.
Every character was well cast, which is
unusual for amateur shows, and as the
society spares no expense to get suitable
scenery and other effects, the picturesque
play went with a swing. That veteran act-
ress, Barbara Sisley, produced the show,
and played the heavy part of Lady Wayne-
flete, the only woman in the cast. The
year will finish up with a performance of
the Australia drama “A Touch of Silk,”
which was highly praised by The Bulletin.
THE TALKIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The ‘talkies’ will have a bad influence on the
speech of the nation if the exaggerated American
accent is not eradicated.”
Since Sarah from ’er ’olidays came back to
Red Grass Flat
It’s pretty ’ard to tumble, mate, to wot she’s
bitin’ at.
It’s all because o’ them there things she
went to when away.
Better she’d let such shows alone an’ seen a
decent play—
“Eas’ Lynne” was good enough for me the
last time I went gay.
But no! She ’eard the latest stunt. Gawd
’elp me, I dunno!
The world’s gone doped, it seems ter me, as
doped as it can go.
She tells me when the ’ero ’ugs ’is jane
upon the screen
Yer ’ear ’em kissin’ loud an’ long, an’ catch
the sighs between —
To me a kiss ain’t natcheral if it is ’eard
an’ seen.
Still, it ain’t that that’s got my quince.
She’s torkin’ different now,
Usin’ ’er ear I do believe, or through ’er nose
somehow.
She sez, “Oh, Dad ! You’re sure some guy!”
an “’Oney, ain’t that sweet?”
An’ things that sorter get me down an’ tie
me up a treat;
An’ she gets orf ’er ’orse at me if I sez
“Please repeat.”
We’ll ’ave a row before we’re done. I’m
pretty nearly full;
She’ll ’ave to drop that squeakin’ voice an’
take a flamin’ pull.
“The Yankee twang,” she sez it is. I ’ate
a foreign tongue
Since I was workin’ on the fields a lot o’
Chinks among;
The King’s good Hinglish does for me —wot I
was taught when young.
VICTORIA.
P. T. F.


dQ. i
s&■
'i'tl'+tr
*§|,
it#?
*
1
K
>gki
z*
*
*
w
v r
ss
t
a
hi
\
J/.
H
$
i
rrrr *++*
t
rr +*.
93
AN ADMISSION OF BANKRUPTCY
On our own side in politics there is nobody at the present time who can possibly take my place. There
is not one member of my Cabinet who Would look at it, and outside of the Cabinet there is nobody at
all.” — Mr. Bruce, address to Employers Federation, Kings Hall, Sydney, Sept, 25, 1929.
NEW BLOOD IS BADLY NEEDED
As if the barren record of the Bruce-Page Government were not in itself sufficient to
condemn it in the eyes of electors, here comes this extraordinary admission of Mr.
Bruce regarding the complete absence of statesmanship to be found on the Nationalist
and Country party benches. Clearly, a change of Government is badly needed.
The Labor party represents action, virility, progress. Labor will not yield to the
clamor of big employing interests who desire a reduction of wages. There will be
fair administration of the law as between rich and poor. The problem of unemploy-
ment will be dealt with immediately on a constructive basis. No half measures will
be proposed. As a means of clearing up the financial mess, the incidence of taxation
will be placed fairly. The rich will bear their proper share. Labor stands for the
millions —not the millionaires.
VOTE LABOR
E. G. Theodore, Campaign Director A.L.P., Sydney, N.S.W.


“The BLUNTON”
The Collar that —
banishes bad language when dressing,
because the Tie has an easy passage—
it can’t stick or drag. Saves wear and
tear on your Neckwear. Its moulded,
“stand-out” front prevents rubbing
against the Shirt. A stylish, cool-
wearing Stiff Collar, that well-dressed
men prefer. At Rothwell’s only.
Price 1/9
ROTHWELLS OUTFITTING
LIMITED
EDWARD STREET
BRISBANE
“WALLARINGA” MANSIONS
*
1
zz *
NEUTRAL BAY, SYDNEY.
UNDER ENTIRELY NEW MANAGEMENT.
Occupying as it does, one of the picked
positions and absolutely the healthiest
on the shores of Sydney Harbor, quiet
and secluded, and within a short
distance of the City.
The Mansions are exceptionally well
built, having fine airy rooms over-
looking Sydney’s beautiful harbor;
also Lounges, Smoking Rooms, Tennis,
Croquet, Swimming Baths, Ball Room,
Guests’ Laundry, Electric Light.
The “Wallaringa” Mansions stand in
a fine position in Neutral Bay, and
the grounds and gardens are well kept.
During the day the views from “Wal-
laringa” are glorious, and at night
the myriad lights, across the harbor
and on the numerous Ferry Boats,
make a fairy-like scene that world-
wide travellers say is unequalled any-
where.
To maintain the reputation of these
well-known Mansions, guests are well
attended to ajid have every conveni-
ence and comfort. Correspondence
and Telegrams punctually attended to.
Terms from £3/3/- per week.
Apply, The Manager.
’Phones: X 2239, X 2267.
Telegrams: “Wallaringa, Sydney.”
When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike,
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
/ Bed and
' Wikfast
Tariff
if desired
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel,” Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some October- birthdays
J. Garibaldi Roberts (Vic.), 69, on 3rd; Justice
Lowe (Vic.), 49, on 4th; Melb. Knight John Grice,
79, on 6th; Acting-C.J. Ferguson (N.S.W.), 68, and
G. Campbell Addison (Syd.), 67, on 7th; poet Dr.
Chas. H. Souter, 65, on 11th; H. G. Budge (N.S.W.
Governor’s sec.), 56, on 12th; Stanley S. Addison
(Melb. Uni.), 49, and Prof. Alcock (Q’land Uni),
“DICKY” FOSTER, the disappointed ex-
Minister whom Mr. Hughes made his
Father Confessor. Having no other
fish to fry at present, Billy wrote, he
proposed to put Bruce and Page on the
grid.
43, on 14th; Langdon Bonython (Adel. Advertiser),
81, ex-Federal Railways Oommisioner Bell, 69, and
Dr. Darnell Smith (Syd. Botanic Gardens), 61, on
15th; Federal Statistician Wickens, 57, on 16th;
Fred W. Eggleston (formerly Vic. Attorney-General),
54, and Tom Mutch, M.L.A. (N.S.W.), 44, on 17th ;
E. C. Andrews (N.S.W. Govt. Geologist), 59, ex-
S. Aus. Minister S. Jelley, 56, and Lionel Lindsay,
55, on 18th; Q. S. Spedding (Labor Daily), 38, on
22nd; Justice Napier (S. Aus.), 47, and Bishop
Thomas (Willochra), 48, on 24th; Dr. Arthur
(N.S.W. Minister of Health), 64, and W.A. Minister
McCallum, 51, on 25th; Fed. Minister Neville Howse,
65, on 26th; Elliott Lewis (Speck), 71, and Arch-
gaiters Sharp (Brisbane), 64, on 27th; ex-Minister
T. J. Ley (N.S.W.), 50, on 28th; explorer Geo.
Wilkins, 41, and Prof. Wadham (Melb. Uni.), 38,
on 31st.
Jacka, V.C., has been elected to the St.
Kilda City Council, where he will have the
company of more than one fellow-Digger. It
may be a step to something more important
if the 14th Battalion man finds public life
suits him. Not a few politicians have
graduated from the St. Kilda council; George
Turner, State Premier and Commonwealth
Treasurer, was one.
Sir Archibald Weigall, who was Governor
of South Aus. from 1920 to 1922, has had
bad luck in his commercial ventures in
London. An agricultural expert, he went
“into the city“ less than a year ago, and
had the misfortune to pick concerns which
are mixed up in the Ilatry smash. He is
chairman of directors of the Automatic
Machine Co., and also prominent in Cor-
poration and General Securities. Adelaide’s
old friend must wish he had stuck to gentle-
man farming.
Walter Nairn, whom the Perth Nation-
alists have brought out against the erratic
Mann, is a lawyer with a comfortable prac-
tice. In his younger days he was a reporter ,
on the Morning Herald, dead long since.
Eighteen years ago he stood for,the North
Perth Assembly, but Labor (with Mann
helping) was in the ascendant then. An
elder brother, Will Nairn, was M.L.A. for
Swan in a couple of Parliaments.
David Weir, though Caledonian by birth,
spent most of his life in North Queensland.
A railwayman, he was transferred to Mary-
borough in 1917 as chief clerk in the loco,
branch; that same year he stood in the
Labor interest for the Maryborough Assembly
seat and was elected. He remained Mary-
borough’s member until his death last week.
As an M.L.A., Weir kept out of the lime-
light, but was liked none the less for that.
He was only 48 at the finish.
Though he has counted 73 milestones and
was a very sick man after his defeat in
1913, lOUsepli Ward, now that he is once
more Priminister of Maoriland, seems to
have shed a couple of decades. Fifteen years
in which he took no very active part in
politics have not slackened his grasp of
affairs. He is a little sharper in retort and
a little less urbane to his opponents than
when he last led the Government, but he is
still one of the most popular men in the
House. ’Flu got him down recently, but
lie was up and about in half a week.
Inherited tendencies show in Edward
Beeby, son of the Federal Arbitration Judge,
and People’s party candidate in Martin
—Labor sympathies combined with hostility
to Labor extremism and methods of discip-
line. The father threw himself heartily into
Labor politics at one time, but refused to be
driven by the out-and-outers, and resigned.
The son, now a solicitor, got his training in
his father’s office, once Beeby and Moffatt.
Dr. Cattaneo, Apostolic Delegate to Aus-
tralia and Maoriland, was 63 the other day.
He came to the Commonwealth 17 years ago,
and has become familiar with most of the
inhabited parts from the Gulf to the Bight
and from the Leeuwin to Ben Buckler. He
prides himself on speaking dinkum Austra-
lian ; his home is at North Sydney, where
he has one of the most beautiful private
chapels in the world.
Vic. Metliodies are mourning W. T. Hat-
tam, of Camberwell, who put so much punch
into his efforts to promote church projects
that he was instrumental .in raising
£lOO,OOO. Early this year he completed
raking in £12,300 for Queen’s College within
the Uni. He was a Malvern draper.
Perth loses and Adelaide gains an un-
usual sort of churchman in Wallace Bird.
An English undergrad, when the war started,
he served all through the business, ending
up in the Indian Army. It was in India
that he entered the Anglican priesthood.
Since 1926 he lias filled clerical R.S.L. and
Toe H posts in Westralia; now he moves
from St. Andrew’s, Subiaco, to St. Augus-
tine’s, Unley. He is only 36.
A. L. N. Walter, who threw up his Gipps-
land West seat in Vic. Assembly to contest
Indi in the Cocky interest, was liked by
fellow-members of all parties, and was re-
garded as a certainty for a Ministership if
a Composite Ministery had been formed.
Unlike Lawson, Walter did not attach a
string to his Assembly seat so that he might
re-nominate if beaten for Indi. Walter
served on the committee of public accounts,
and was chairman for a term.
Dr. Arthur Murray Oram, one of Sydney’s
best-known physicians, has laid down the
work to which his life was devoted, aged
73. Born in Bathurst, a son of the
manse, he went by way of Newington to
Edinburgh Uni., returning to practise in
Australia in 1882. With the late Alfred
Roberts he was one of the inaugurators of
the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, and his
widespread activities included for many years
the position of physician to the Randwick
Children’s Hospital.
Arthur Robinson, who is making a bid for
the Fawkner (Vic.) seat in the Reps, against
Maxwell, K.C., is no stranger to that House,
as he served a term there in the early days
of Federation —he was in the Assembly pre-
viously. Robinson is best remembered as
leader of the Vic. Leg. Council for six years
up to 1924. Tired of the place, he did not
re-nominate in 1925 for Melb. South. A
lawyer, like Maxwell, he is a Melb. Club
stalwart, and a good supporter of Australian
literature. His dad was for many years the
financial authority of the Age, and a great
one, too.
If A. C. Morgan defeats the Speaker,
Littleton Groom, for the Darling Downs
seat, he will soon know his way round. He
was brought up on politics; first his grand-
father and then his father sat in the Queens-
land Assembly for Warwick, which forms
part of the Downs. Moreover after he had
been kicked into shape on his dad’s paper,
the Warwick Argus, he joined Queensland
Hansard, and later was on the Parliamen-
tary staff- —dad had become, first, Speaker
and, later, Premier. The present candidate
A. C. MORGAN, who is fighting the
Speaker for the Darling Downs seat.
was one of the first Australians to enlist
for the Great War and was on Gallipoli.
But he won’t mention that unless you drag
it from him.
Visitors from . eastern States to Jarrah-
land during the centenary celebrations have
found Ignatius Boyle, chairman of the
Toodyay Roads Board, a live wire. Boyle’s
opportunities for public service will lie in-
creased when the board is converted into a
district council, as is proposed. Gov. Fitz-
gerald, when saying good-bye to the district
in 1855, advised it to grow wheat. Toodyay
(formerly Newcastle) did not take the
advice then, but it is now the centre of a
great wheat-growing district. Its old-world
village charm is not marred by the electric-
light works which Boyle’s board installed
and is running profitably.
H'. L. Heron, g. m. of the Commercial
Bank of Australia, closed the ledger in Mel-
bourne last week at 66. Born in Hamilton
(Vic.), he was a banker from boyhood up,
commencing with the A’sia. Transferring in
after years to the Mercantile of Sydney, he
was taken over when the Commercial
absorbed that institution. Heron got his
great chance when he succeeded Henry
Gyles Turner as chief of the concern he was
to control for the next 28 years; and under
his hand it blossomed out of all knowledge.
Thomas Evans has been nearly everything
at Lithgow (N.S.W.) except its niember of
Parliament. Grounded at the local school,
he became a pupil teacher there (the first),
town clerk, alderman, mayor and coroner.
Evans, who says he doesn’t feel a day over
40, was on hand when the school celebrated
its jubilee, and met some, class-mates he
hadn’t seen since the ’eighties.
Peter Whiteside, who died recently in
Capetown after having been a prominent
figure in South Africa for many years,
hailed originally from Ballarat. He left for
the Boer War with the Vic. Mounted Rifles,
and liked the country so much that he
decided to stay. He became a member of
the Capetown Town Council, served a term
in the Cape Leg. Assembly, and was elected
to the Union Senate. At the time of his
death he was Commissioner for the Cape
railways under the system of board control.
Tas. Premier McPliee Is no mean walker.
He recently travelled from Hobart to the
West Coast via the road now under con-
struction. From Lake St. Clair it was foot-
work for over 30 miles, the worst stage being
18 miles over Mt. Arrowsmith at an altitude
of more than 3000 ft. —the road itself will
pass at a somewhat lower level. On a good
road 18 miles is not much of a tramp, but
the same distance over bleak mountain
country through mud and slush, pelted (as
McPhee was) by sleet and hail, is a very
thorough test of endurance for a city man.
Bernard Cronin has a job that is unique
for an Australian novelist. He is publicity
officer for the Larkin Aircraft Supply Co.
General Sir Herbert Chermside, who has
answered the last roll-call in London, aged
79, was a well-liked Governor of Queensland
for the four years after the close of the
South African War. An Etonian, he joined
the Sappers in 1868, and in addition to a
good deal of active service in Egypt and
South Africa, occupied important military
and diplomatic positions, for the most part
in Egypt and Turkey. On Turkey lie was
an accepted authority, and one of his big-
gest undertakings was the delimitation of
its frontier, a job which brought him in
contact with another young sapper named
Kitchener, then engaged in survey work in
Palestine.
The Bruce-Pages have great hopes of
wresting the Herbert (Q.) seat from George
Martens. They have picked a formidable
candidate in W. A. Amiet, of Mackay. A
son of Geelong, Amiet carried off a hatful
of honors at Melbourne Uni. before going
into the dominie profession at Maryborough,
and then at Brisbane. Called to the Bar
and the war in 1915, he was with the 26th
Battalion on the Somme, and went through
nearly everything until wounded at Bcaure-
voir. After the Armistice he did a post-
graduate course at King’s College, Oxford.
George Forbes, M.L. Minister of Lands,
who will have his hands full this session
piloting legislation which commences
where Jock McKenzie left off, is one
of the few original settlers on the
Cheviot Estate who didn’t let afflu-
ence make Tories of them. Cheviot
was Jock’s first big land purchase.
He had been a ploughman on the place
and knew good land when he saw
it. It proved a goldmine for the
tenants, who, when Massey came in,
were allowed to buy their holdings at
the original valuation. Forbes, de-
spite prosperity, remained a land re-
former of the McKenzie school, and
at long last he is in the way of get-
ting some of his ideas on the Statute Book.
The Sydney Great Synagogue lost its most
constant worshipper when Joseph Isaacs,
who had lived to be a hundred, was called
to his fathers. The old chap was a Bag-
dad Jew; he reached Sydney in 1877, and
from the time it was opened until about' a
month ago he attended the Elizabcth-street
temple on Saturday mornings. He had a
confectionery business at Redfern for many
years. There is an older member of Sydney
Jewry still living, Baumberg, who is 102.
Bob Taylor, Labor candidate for More-
ton (Q.), is a stocky Scot who has been
secretary to the Ironworkers’ Assistants for
years. Bob used to be pretty Red at Queens-
street Sunday-night meetings, but since he
won a big prize in the Golden Casket he has
acknowledged that “capitalism” is not
wholly vile. His deposit is not in danger,
but he has no chance of adding £lOOO a
year to his income by unseating Jos. Francis.
Vic. Premier McPherson’s house at Haw-
thorn has an interesting history. It was
built by James Palmer, first president of the
Leg. Council, in 1852. Palmer named it
Burwood, and a now-populous suburb bor-
rowed the name. Later on it was sold to
actor-manager George Coppin, who cut up
and sold the paddocks, but kept the house
until the lean years which followed the
bursting of the boom.
Coadjutor-Bishop LE FANU, of Brisbane,
just called to be Archbishop of Perth
in succession to the late much-beloved
Riley.
Honorary Minister Cuthbertson is acting
as Vic. Minister for Education while Cohen
is visiting Westralia. And, having been re-
elected president of the Nat. Fed., Cuthbert-
son is in the limelight during the Federal
election. He represents Albert Park —not
an easy seat to hold. He won it by a small
majority from Laborite Wallace, who still
covets it.
Dead in Adelaide, Robert McEwin, a
mighty jam-maker. He was commonly known
as “the squire” at Houghton, the hills town-
ship where the family settled 90 years ago.
TO EACH HIS OWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The careless crowds go up and down, but
here and there a head is bent,
A heart goes back to other days beside the
wreath-decked monument.
What wistful memories they wake, what mes-
sages they telepatli,
From over rolling seas and years, those
words upon the Cenotaph !
The surging crowds seem strangely still;
the Present fades beneath the spell
Of pictures, conjured from the Past, deep
etched in strokes indelible.
A face you never glimpsed again, a vanished
form, a spirit flown,
A voice you were to hear no more! To each
his own—to each his own.
No two- alike, yet all alike in memories
charged with bitter woe
And glowing pride in those you lost—-how
many years was it ago?
The city’s roar grows faint. I feel a hand-
clasp firm. A cheery laugh
Of parting echoes in my ears —beside the
wreath-strewn Cenotaph.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Thormanby” : The plea by Canon Head,
Melbourne’s Arclibishop-elect, for the revival
of family prayers recalls an episode of my
remote youth. My paternal grandfather
was a choleric Yorkshire parson. One morn-
ing when the whole of his household, in-
cluding the servants, were on their knees,
an old pointer which had the run of the
place strolled in and interrupted the orisons
by sniffing noisily at several pairs of up-
turned boot-soles. “Jane,” exploded the old
gentleman, pausing in his supplications, “take
that damned dog out.” The hound was
hustled forth, and it didn’t improve the situa-
tion that she was given the proper title of
her canine sex by my enraged forebear.
NOT A MONOPOLIST, ANYHOW.
FILMA: “I think Doris is so self-possessed.”
HILMA: “Ooh, yes —but she would jump at a chance of transferring the title.”
“Cadonga”: An overnight fracas in the
0.T.8. canteen at Warminster (Wilts) was
being investigated at orderly-room. The cor-
poral of the canteen picket was giving evi-
dence until the C.O. interrupted with, “Now,
Corporal, you say you saw Private O’Brien
strike Sergeant Smith. Please describe that
assault.” “Well,, sir,” said the witness, “Pri-
vate O’Brien jumped up from the floor and
swung a left hook at Sergeant Smith”
“Jumped up from the floor?” interpolated the
C.O. “What was he doing there?” “Well,
sir.” explained the two-striper, “the sergeant
had got him a beauty on the chin and sent
him flying a few seconds before the assault
that I’m describing”!
“D.C.H.” : How’s this for resourcefulness?
A Sydney girl left her car outside one of the
stores in a “No Parking” area. Coming
out a little later she saw a policeman with
notebook taking down the number. She
nicked back into the store and ’phoned police
headquarters that her car had been stolen.
Then she returned home by tram, arriving
there just as the police rang up to notify
that her car had been recovered, undamaged,
outside Blank’s.
* * * *
“C. 8.” : A notice on the Larkin Co.’s air-
craft at the All-Australian Exhibition in
Melbourne read : “If Australia were threat-
ened with invasion, which of these Austra-
lian-made commodities would you prefer she
would be able 'to produce at a pinch—beer
or aeroplanes?” “Well,” remarked a Digger,
“a civilian would probably say aeroplanes.”
# * * *
“Selma”: The young wife of a suburban
dentist arrived back from hospital after an
operation with strict instructions to remain
in bed for a week. On the first morning her
husband give his wife her breakfast, and
arranged for a local charwoman to come in
for a general clean-up and keep
an eye on the invalid pending
the arrival of a permanent
domestic. The lady arrived at
9 a.m. wearing a black satin
gown with a red rose on the hip
and a coquettish, gold-scrolled
veil that just covered her eyes.
Still, she seemed willing and
capable, and worked with zeal
until she received a request to
“do out” the sideboard. Pre-
sently her voice became up-
lifted in song, then from the
nether regions came sounds of
altercation, and the baker’s boy
fled down the path pursued by a
brandished mop. A few minutes
later the butcher, dripping from
the assault of a pail of water,
just escaped being hit with a
flying bottle. When a group of
interested spectators gathered
at the gate it was evident to the
agitated invalid that some sort
of demonstration was in pro-
gress on the lawn, and she
screamed for help. A brick
hurtling through the window
subdued her, but at this junc-
ture the indignant butcher
arrived with the local constable
in tow. Some sympathetic
neighbors were soon in the
house, but when they sought a
little whisky to revive the young
wife all they found was the empty bottle
the butcher had escaped.
$ . $ % *
“P.X.”: “Old Rocks’s” description (B.
25/9/’29) of Billy Hughes as he walked down
George-street in 1892 fitted him also as I first
saw him on the platform. The most con-
spicuous thing about him then were his
short pants—he wore them dragged well up
towards his knees; the queerest little figure
in the general election of ’94. For Billy didn’t
come in with the great Labor flood; that
occurred in 1891. What was afterwards
Bill’s stronghold of West Sydney in those
days had four members; 1891 brought in
George Black and Jack Fitz Gerald, with
Tom Davis and Andy Kelly—George a
Bulletin sub-editor, Jack a compositor
(afterwards a lawyer), Tom and Andy
typical waterside union men. A strangely
mixed lot always had represented West
Sydney—including that great fighter Dr.
Lang, whose church was in the electorate
(has any other Australian electorate ever
been represented by the local parson?) ; old
Jock Robertson, who damned himself and
everybody; George Dibbs, who damned
Chicago; W. C. Windeyer, who afterwards
became a Judge and tried the Mt. Rennie
boys; Angus Cameron, the nearest approach
to a Labor man the ’seventies knew; Francis
Abigail, the cobbler who didn’t stick to his
last and was made a scapegoat in the early
days of the bank smashes and sent to gaol;
Dan O’Connor, pork-butcher and orator,
author of the immortal Ministerial minute,
“Appint Maloney”; and Thomas Playfair,
the aldermanic butcher, in whose honor Wie-
gand, the first city organist, is reputed to
have composed “The Sausage Gavotte.” In
his manner of speech, Billy Hughes hasn’t
altered much in the 35 years since he first
wooed that district. He used his feet more
and his hands less than he does now; but
he was the same explosive Billy, acid and
bitter, a little more fluent than he is to-day
perhaps, because it really didn’t matter what
he said then, and he knew it. H'is high-
water mark as a speaker he reached in
191 S. I heard him then in England and
he was superb.
SURE, QUITE SURE.
MOTHER: “Mrs. Jones is terribly upset because you hit her little boy in the eye. Are
you sure it was an accident?”
TOMMY: “Yes, as true as anything it was, Mummy. I aimed for his nose.”
“Murkah”: Only one ocean-going vessel
has ever been wrecked in Sydney Harbor.
The ship Catherine Adamson left Syd-
ney on March 26, 1857, and landed
mails in England on the 68th day. She
was back off Sydney Heads on October 23,
having sailed around the world in less than
seven months —a performance seldom bet-
tered even by much more famous clippers.
She entered the Heads and anchored for
the night; at dawn next morning a heavy
south-east gale burst into the harbor, tore
the vessel from her anchors, and slewed
her across the rocks of inner North Head,
where she went to pieces. Twenty-one lives
were lost, including the pilot’s. That was
only nine weeks after the Dunbar had been
hammered to splinters a few hundred yards
from the harbor
“Steam”: A recent cable, telling that the
Nelson liner Highland Pride had run on to
the rocks outside Vigo
Harbor (Spain), will
recall to many Austra-
lians that precisely the
same fate in the same
locality overtook a sister
ship, the Highland
Warrior, in October,
1915. Her wireless
sent out SOS signals
which were picked up
by the Kanowna, in
the Mediterranean, and
the Karoola, which was
about 80 miles off,
bound from Malta to
Southampton. I was
on the latter ship, which
made all haste to the
scene of the disaster.
We couldn’t find the
doomed vessel in the
fog, although it was
obvious from her mes-
sages that w’e were vis-
ible to her, and pre-
sently her wireless
operator tapped out a
message giving her posi-
tion directionally from
the Karoola. All of her
passengers and crew
were rescued in a heavy
surf, being placed in
baskets and lifted on to
the Karoola by derricks. The ship was a
total wreck. This was said on board to be
the first occasion when a ship was directed
on her course to another ship by means of
wireless telegraphy. Was it?
# * * *
“D.”: The abuse hurled recently at the
Sydney police by Laborites like Stuart
Robertson, M.L.A., and Nationalists like
McDonald, M.L.C., will surprise those with
experience of policemen in other parts of
the world. I would put the Sydney police-
man ahead of the London bobby himself in
some directions. He is gamer. The Lon-
don policeman is a masterpiece at soothing
unruly crowds, but (possibly because he is
unarmed) he rarely tackles serious trouble
single-handed, as I have seen more than one
Sydney policeman do. As a motorist I would
much rather deal with a Sydney policeman.
The London bobby’s manner is usually
respectful, even deferential, but he summons
by rule of thumb. The Sydney traffic cop
has no manner at all, as a rule. The motor-
ist who makes a mistake may have to put
up with a few preliminary howls ; but, if he
takes them in good part, he will be given
a judicial hearing, and if he has any sort
of case he will get off with a caution. The
London bobby is intensively schooled in
courtesy and self-control, yet he is not re-
quired to exercise these virtues to anything
like the extent his opposite number in Syd-
ney is. For example, Sydney policemen hare
to put up with insults from a certain class
of criminal defender which no London advo-
cate . would dream of levelling.
* * t- #
“Runa”: I know a M.L. motorist who
“stepped on it” to escape a deadlier peril
than an about-to-crash tree (B. 4/9/’29)\
Choosing a time when the schedule showed
that no train was near Wairarapa bridge, he
ran on to it and was half-way across when a
whistle ahead announced the approach of a
train, a special at full-speed. To go back
was impossible, so the motorist set his teeth
and drove like Segrave, only more desper-
ately. For some awful seconds the car
faced the oncoming engine; then, with feet
only to spare, it turned off the bridge into
safety. It was an hour before either the
driver or the passenger felt fit to resume the
journey.
* * * *
“Mudros”: The superstition which gave
rise to the phrase “One,pip—one stunt” may
have deterred some Diggers from accepting
commissions (B. 11/9/’29). There was more
than a germ of truth in the catch phrase.
At an overseas base I once had charge of
over 70 newly-commissioned Diggers who
were waiting to join their units. Several
of them were killed in their first fight as
platoon commanders, though they had passed
unscathed through major engagements in the
ranks; more than half of the 70 were casual-
ties within three months.
* * * *
“Uramao”: In Maoriland the other day a
pocket edition motor-car was being driven at
top speed to get over a level crossing before
the thundering express. The engine-driver
suddenly saw the danger and applied his
brakes, as did the driver of the car. with the
result that the two vehicles came to a dead
stop on the crossing a couple of yards from
each other. After the driver of the 100-ton
locomotive had expressed himself feelingly,
the motor-car driver chipped in: “What the
are you roaring about? Haven’t I left
you enough room to pass?”
* * * *
“Beachey Bill”: The name of the naval
officer who was the last man to leave Anzac
was not Mackie or Mackay (B. 7/8/’29),
but Macßae. He is now in t the service
of the Navigation Department, Newcastle
(N.S.W.).
* $ $ *
“Morita”: I too recall a “Continental
Evening” (B. 25/9/’29) in Brussels, less
decorous than “Bill O’C.’s,” but Yuletide
was approaching and there were four lean
years of war to make up for. The Maison
had five floors of cabarets, patronised accord-
ing to financial status. Beer on the ground
floor was a franc a time; it ascended till the
attic clientele tossed in three. In the lower
regions staid family groups clinked their
glasses to undiluted French and Belgian war
songs; up aloft we danced on the tables to
the same tunes. Costumes diminished gradu-
ally on the trip upward, the goddesses and
gods being in the scantiest of evening dress
and officers’ uniforms and dinner suits. The
songster of our trio was induced on the
ground floor to render the ditty of tie'
Armentieres demoiselle. His fame spread
as we went upward, and the more pints pro-
vided the more verses he remembered, tin
society in the attic unblushingly banged
glasses on the tables to a rendering thar
would have amazed the song’s original com-
poser.
BALLAD OF UNSEEN SHEILAS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve sung in my time some doleful songs
When my years were sadly few
Of the ghastly tomb (where such tripe
belongs)
And the rune of the rose and rue.
But to-night my heart has broken thrall
(There are lines you may read between),
And a toast I offer —come, rhymesters all,
To the girls that we never have seen!
How strange it is when the years grow short,
As the long years do in time,
When Youth has yielded his roseleaf fort,
And a man’s—er —in his prime,
llow the loveliest ladies that e’er we knew
Have never a hope terrene
If we match them—poets, is this not true? —
With the girls that we never have seen.
Now, matrons, a moment! Betrothed, go
slow!
Truth’s truth in the Fiend’s despite,
And De gustibus non est —you know.
Perforce you must own me right.
I’ll not defend, I can scarce explain
The glamor that crowns her queen,
Aye, though you were thrice as fair again,
The girl that we never have seen.
Bardic brothers, whose bond is beer,
Though the flesh be a luring flame,
Yet, under the rose, I’m not quite clear
If the candle is worth the game.
There are red, red lips that will lisp for aye,
And the way of their speech, I ween,
Is a weariness! But how wise are they,
The girls that we never have seen!
We die as illusion dies in us,
We fade as our visions fade
(Ah! would that I had not chosen thus
But made it a lemonade!)
And I wonder —but only the Scytheman tells
That secret —with eyes serene
Do they wait in the field of asphodels,
The girls that we never have seen?
Perchance, O Prince, where the moonflowers
blow
In the mists of the might have been,
They would bore us stiffer than those we
know,
The girls that we never have seen.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


“Squadron-Leader”: “Shorts” were regula-
tion army wear long before the Digger was
evolved (B. 25/9/’29). Writer first saw
them in 1901, when the first battalion of
the Dorsets detrained at Volksrust, in the
Orange Free State. They were, it trans-
pired, the universal summer wear in India,
whence the regiment had come direct. The
Light Horse took them from Gallipoli to
Sinai and Palestine, and the greatest trial
of Allenby’s life lay in his frequent and
futile attempts to make Australians discard
them. There was a lot in his claim that
shorts opened up further territory for the
beastly sores of the Jordan Valley, and gave
the flies and poisonous dust wider scope,
but the only alternative was stifling woollen
riding-breeches, and all who could hung on
to the abbreviated garments to the last ditch.
if. X X X
“Mudurup”: Westralia has been celebrat-
ing its centenary, with, among other things,
pageants and processions representing the
landing of its Pilgrim Fathers in 1829. The
pioneers spent their first night on Garden
Island, which remains very much as they
left it a century ago, however vast
the changes wrought on the mainland.
Among the selectors of sites for Australian
capitals, Governor Stirling enjoys one unique
distinction. It is universally admitted that
he picked the best spot, and that an ideal one,
whereas in every other State, except possibly
Tasmania, people will still be found to con-
tend that the capital wouldn’t have been
where it is had better judgment been exer-
cised.
*** I X
“Oxmead”: Mention was made in the
S. M. Herald the other day of the town
clerk at Coolangatta (N.S.AV.) concluding
a spirited appeal to the local councillors to
use concrete instead of bitumen for road con-
struction with an apposite quotation from
Ruskin. Town clerks in general are a utili-
tarian class, whose minutes of meetings are
entirely devoid of literary graces, but I knew
one on the W.A. goldfields whose municipal
records were a sheer joy. The halting utter-
ances which he was required to chronicle
once a fortnight went down in descriptive
English such as Macaulay might have used,
invariably embellished with a few illustra-
tions and allusions of his own, which threw
a dignity over the most prosaic discussions
on drains and culverts and the least edifying,
wrangles on sanitary rates. Councillors
themselves were proud of an officer who
could make them so eminently readable —
he was an old Bulletin contributor and his
A CHANCE TO SCORE AT LAST.
BILL: “You can josh me as much as you like; but I shall go on seeing Heaven in
your eyes.”
JILL: “Oh, Bill, you’re getting useful at last. Tell me what sort of bathing-gowns the
girls are wearing THERE this season!”
name was Reseigh Martin—and well they
might have been. “I never knoo I could
talk like that,” one of them confided to me
when we were consulting an entry about the
town pump—or, rather, town well. It has
always been a regret to me that this unique
minute-book should have perished in a fire,
some years after its author had died in
Geraldton hospital.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Victoria recorded 529 more
motor accidents this year than last, the
total being 3740. It is generally believed that
drunken drivers are the most prolific causes
of damage to themselves and others, but only
50 accidents were ascribed to these. There
were only 836 disasters in the city, as
against 2160 in the suburbs and 744 in the
country. “Motorists’ negligence” accounted
for 1686 incidents and 1033 were due to
“accidental causes.” It is a tribute to
modern motor engineering that only 72
smashes were due to mechanical defects.
My own experience leads me to believe that
most of the dangerous speeding is done by
vainglorious, but quite sober, youth. The
effect of excessive alcohol on a driver is to
make him drive badly but with ludicrous
caution. He is less likely to bump into
anything than the ass who propels a ton of
steel along a slippery highway at 60 m.p.h.
Suburban driving is more risky because of
the multiplicity of awkward corners screened
by domestic fences and hedges, and country
driving is often a trap to the unwary be-
cause of. the apparent absence of danger. The
most reckless drivers are artisans returning
home from work with their rickety Ford
lorries packed with laborers. A life spent
in dangerous industrial pursuits possibly
makes them indifferent to risks that would
intimidate others.
*** . *
“Chancery Lane”: In a recent Melbourne
divorce suit ’Sonali expressed surprise at the
meagreness of the maintenance (12s. 6d. a
week) the respondent was paying his wife
from whom he was already separated. A
few questions, however, elicited that he was
already paying alimony to two previous wives
who had divorced him, and the Court nodded
understandingly.
* *
“Nakhoda” : I notice an inquirer has asked
The Bulletin Service Department how
mosquitoes may be kept away. In Borneo
I found that thin white-cotton gloves and
white socks were as good as anything. Why
the insect will thrust its proboscis through
thick woollen fabrics if they are colored and
yet shy off thin w T hite ones, somebody else is
welcome to explain.
* * * *
“X.D.” : A plainclothes constable on duty
at an intersection at St. Kilda had an un-
expected experience. He jumped on to the
footboard of a taxi, whose driver and passen-
gers he had reason to suspect were drunk, if
not incapable. When he was able to step
off his perch again he was 25 miles away at
Ferntree Gully. The little _ joke cost the
driver five weeks’ gaol and his license.
* * * *
“Oran”: The city fathers of AVellington
(MX.) have introduced a by-law making it
compulsory for motorists to display, in addi-
tion to number-plates, their names oh their
cars. A storm of protest has greeted the
innovation, the car-owners contending that
for efficient motor control a liberal distri-
bution of copies of the motor register to
local authorities should be sufficient. But
the council considers that when a pedestrian
has been run down it will be more satisfac-
tory for him to be able to identify his
assailant as John Smith than as merely No.
12,345.
* * x x
“Sol M.” : A United States lady, who is
said to be walking round the world for the
benefit of her health, has arrived in Sydney,
and received the usual newspaper paragraph.
Her home is in Los Angeles, on jthe U.S.
west coast, and she has now reached the
Australian east coast by water, which hardly
seems appropriate for a pedestrian tour.
However, it is reported that she walked
20,000 miles up and down the U.S., between
Canada and Panama, before starting on her
real effort. This occupied rather over two years,
at the rate of about 25 miles per day, which
was good going, especially for a sick woman.
It is hard to say why round-the-world pedes-
trians or hikists take in Australia at all,
for, after crossing the Pacific, the Tasman
Sea, the Indian Ocean and the Atlantic,
there is very little land travel left to do.
I have been told that adventurers who are
performing the modest journey round Aus-
tralia often put themselves and their bikes
on the train at one end of the desert, and
get off when population begins at the other
end. Then they arrive travel-worn at the
first pub and rest a while, and perhaps
negotiate another stage on the handy “goods.”
* * * *
“Pawang”: The Melbourne Board of
Works proposes to turn its recently-pur-
chased Braeside into a sludge farm, dis-
charging into the bay near Mornington,
which is part of the Brighton diocese. Brigh-
ton councillors, anxious to know the worst,
paid a surprise visit to AVerribee sewage farm,
on the other side of the city, and announced
themselves as staggered. Seagulls were being
“gassed upon the beach” in large numbers.
One councillor “had to flee” in order to
avoid the same fate. Others were “sickened.
The sea was “rotten for miles” from the
effluent. When asked why no previous visi-
tors had found such conditions the Brighton
bumbles suggested that others had announced
their coming beforehand and the board had
cleaned up the place in anticipation. As
the area of the Werribee farm is three
times the size of Melbourne proper,
this seems a remarkable statement. But
HER HUSBAND COULD BEAR WITNESS.
BENEVOLENT OLD GENT: “They tell me you’re a dreadful gambler, Mrs. Warmly!”
MRS. WARMLY: “Well, you ask my husband — he’ll tell you I never have a bit too
much on.”
Brighton would probably be hostile to
a sewage farm even if the engineers demon-
strated the purity of the effluent as effectively
as a medico once did at Heidelberg. Com-
plaints had been made about a septic tank
connected with the local Austin hospital. The
doctor drew a glass of the effluent just as
it poured out into the street and drank it.
That convinced the deputation.
* * * *
“Sailor Quack”: Are Australian girls fas-
cinating? Ask our Gallic ally. At the
reception on the French cruiser Tourville my
daughter was chatting to the senior surgeon
of the ship, who wore the Cross of the Legion
of Honor. The Governor noticed the decora-
tion as he passed the pair and stopped to
shake hands with its wearer. The surgeon
shook hands mechanically, without looking
up, and continued his laudation of made-
moiselle’s charms. Sir Dudley went on with
an understanding smile, followed by a horror-
stricken aide. When I recovered, I explained
what had occurred- “Oh, ho, ze Governaire?
Ah! Ze grand joke, ha-ha-ha! He vill ’ave
me be’eaded, non?” He roared in laughter
with both hands, as only a Frenchman can.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: Something unique in broad-
casting was provided at the All-Aus-
tralian Exhibition in Melbourne when
SEX, the station specially installed for the
currency of the show, picked up a church
service from Suva. The sermon was deli-
vered in Fijian and afterwards translated
into English, and came over the Pacific as
clearly as if it had emanated from one of
the local bethels.
* * * *
“Mudros”: The talk drifted to the recent
savage attack on an elderly citizen by a
couple of toughs, and indignation loosened
the tongue of taciturn old Captain Wind-
jammer. “Any of
you boys know how
to gouge?” he asked.
“Well, I’ll show you,”
and he held out a leg
o’ mutton fist—with
a straight thumb. “I
was sandbagged one
night in New York
Bowery,” he con-
tinued ’ “Having a
thick skull, I didn’t
quite go out to it, and
when the thug bent
over me to go through
my pockets, I jambed
my thumb —this way
—into his eye-socket.
He dropped in a heap,
and I took to my
heels. It’s worth knowing, that trick,” he
added reminiscently. “It’s got me out of
many a tight corner. If you can only get
half an inch of thumb into a tough’s eyeball
he’ll go right out to it.”
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar” : Speaking the hosing of
unwanted visitors by ships’ crews (B.
25/9/’29). the tanks which annually carry
the hordes of pilgrims to Mecca from Bom-
bay and a hundred other ports invariably
have steam hoses laid on to the bridge. There
have been many tragedies through fights
arising among the multitudinous and often
bitterlv antagonistic sects of Islam. More
than once the maddened fanatics have rushed
the European afterguard and massacred the
lot, once within sight of Jeddah. That is
why the hoses are always ready, and the
boiier connections fitted.
He * * *
“D.P.” : Hyde Park, Sydney,_ isn’t the only
place where gardens come into being in
a night or two. At Canberra, where
every new edifice has its foundation stone
laid by some local celebrity, workmen are
sent the day before the ceremony to
plant the surroundings with shrubs and
flowers still in pots (the pots adroitly
covered up) and next day the garden effect
has seemingly years of maturity behind it.
\t the unveiling of the National Memorial
by the Governor-General last Anzac Day, a
beautiful garden was laid out: after the
ceremony it vanished as rapidly as it came.
“Isharagi” : Touching the climatic abomi-
nations of the Jordan Y alley it was widely
reported that an order had been issued with-
drawing all white troops from the pestilential
spot for the summer months of 1918. If such
an order was ever projected it was modified
at the last minute, for the Anzac Mounted
Division stayed with the Sikhs and the
West Indians through June and July, in
a shade temperature of anything up to 135
degrees. Our chief torments were snakes,
scorpions and malarial mosquitoes, the flies
having been driven off by the heat early in
the season. The one bright spot to an
Aussie in that inferno was the mile-long
avenue, bordered by tall gum-trees, which led
into Jericho from the north.
:|s * * *
“P.M.” : “R. Volt” is wrong in his state-
ment that any wireless Morse reader can
read a telegram in a country post office (B.
18/9/’29). I learnt to send and read wire-
less Morse (“buzzer”) in France, but have
never been able to read a word on a tele-
graph sounder, which is* a different signal
altogether. Every flying officer in a two-
seater squadron in France had to qualify m
wireless, but very few could read a land-
line sounder.
* * * *
“Sudah Habis”: Victoria-parade, Mel-
bourne, presents an interesting s t ut *y 111
municipal management. A mile of the thor-
oughfare is shared between three councils, and
each has numbered the houses in its section
without reference to the others. There are
three sets of numbers from 1 to 17 and two
from 1 to 209. None of the numbers are
even. Cases of nervous breakdown amongst
postmen in the district are said to be
numerous.
* ;]: * *
“Uramao”: Just drifted into Invercargill
(M.L.) Museum a plug of tea, grooved
on both sides, presumably for the purpose of
breaking off the equivalent of two spoonfuls.
The exhibit, which is very like a plug of
tobacco, was purchased in London in 1851
and brought to M.L. by an old pioneer. The
cup that cheers but not infuriates was some-
times sold in blocks in early Victorian days,
but very little found its way into the immi-
grant ships of the period.
* * * *
“R.H.”: I have a lot of old Vic. news-
papers, many of which are now defunct.
They prove that time payment had taken
firm root in Melbourne more than 50 years
ago, and that we were even then keeping
pace with the Americans in the way of
advertising. “A little while back,” says an
editorial writer in 1876, “time payment, this
great motive power towards extravagance,
applied only to pianos and sewing-machines;
but nowadays there is scarcely a single
article of necessity or luxury that you may
not purchase by trifling weekly instalments.”
And here’s a specimen advertisement of about
the same date: “In the midst of life we are
in death. The King of Terrors knocks alike
at the peasant’s hut and at the prince’s
palace. With unseen hand he strikes down
the young and fair as well as the aged and
deformed. Be warned in time and purchase
your coffins from A B on the new
time-payment system.”
$ ❖ ❖
“P.M.”: There was a war-time fiction
about a Digger who travelled all over Europe
using a theatre programme for a railway
pass. Which reminds me of a bloke who
came back to Horseferry-road H.Q. from a
holiday in Italy, and told us how he put a
bundle of papers Over the ticket-checkers as a
rail warrant. A cobber of mine went on
leave and tried it. The ticket-checker de-
manded his ticket soon after he crossed the
border at Mentone; he produced his papers
and put up the “no-savee” stunt. . The
checker went off, apparently dropping the
matter. When the Digger alighted at the
first refreshment station on the line a
checker approached him, accompanied by a
policeman and an interpreter; the latter
informed the traveller if he didn’t buy a
ticket with hard cash “at the tout” he
would be given in charge. Wandering liars
received a poor hearing at Horseferry-road
after that.
The dozen superb drawings which Norman
Lindsay did to illustrate “The Quarter-
master” have been reproduced in two-tone
ink on art paper, and are now on sale at The
Bulletin’s chief office, Sydney, and at all
branch offices. The complete set of one
dozen drawings costs only 25., and to put
country subscribers on the same footing as
those of the cities, the set will be sent post-
free from the head office to any address in
Australasia.
THE QUICK AND THE DEAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The dead men laugh at us to-day.
They say:
“Poor souls that suffer so,
We know.
“We know it is not worth the wound,
This love you’re cherishing,
The doubts that at black midnight fell.
The loss that makes your dawns a hell,
The jealousies that sting.”
And we turn from the dead away
And say:
“Blood from our wounds is warm and red,
You’re dead.”
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


ASSURED POSITIONS. BETTER MONEY.
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and enter
a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to send for
our Prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equal to the
demand. NOW is the time to begin.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
ẁ
Head Office,
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, Endowment, Children’s Endowment, Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Personal Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and for cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company’s oflices.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
VICHY
hWmd
m
HMm
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled-*—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Exit the Jivoli
IRVING SAYLES
NELLIE STEWART
WILKIE BARD
ADA REEVE
UTTLE TICH
HOUDINI
TO-DAY Sydney Tivoli doors are barred up
and the old house of joyous and tragic
experience is left to its ghosts, includ-
ing the ghost of the Ghost, who, to judge by
attendances over the past year or so, must
be a light-fingered laddie, given to dipping
into pockets other than his own.
As far as the Tiv. building is concerned
its closing comes through a Theatre Licens-
ing Act; but with its end variety seems to
end also, and the cause of death in that case
is not so clear. Still, the Coroner probably
won’t be far out if lie blames the movies,
with the talkies to help them in the final
round. If that verdict is right, the Tiv. can
be. numbered among the tragic figures that
have harbored a snake in the bosom, for
it was one of the first houses in Sydney to
screen movies.
Another explanation might be the degenera-
tion of variety; but whether or not it would
have paid a management to continue forking
out the salaries that induced some of the
figures around this page to keep up the
standard is impossible to say. It might be
a moot point also whether any salaries could
secure figures like them nowadays—Cinque-
valli, Tich, Irving Sayles, Charlie Pope,
Marie Lloyd, Wilkie Bard, Lee White, Fred
Bluett, Ada Reeve; Houdini, who made
pretty cold-headed men believe he had the
power to dematerialise himself: and others,
such as Chung Ling Soo, the Scotcli-China-
man, who passed out in a theatre fire in
Britain; Carl Hertz, the illusionist: Hack-
enschmidt, the wrestler; Frances Alda; G.
W. Hunter; Lamberti; Charles Godfrey, the
daddy of the Lion Comiques; May Moore
Duprez; Peggy Pryde, at the Tiv. last
week; Maud Fanning, another who saw the
old place out and was making the gods roar
for more at the finish; Julian Rose, of “Lev-
insky at the Wedding”; Chirgwin, the
White-eyed Kaffir; Harry Rickards himself,
who really made the house that made him,
and whose familiar bust five strong men
carried down the dress-circle stairs the other
day in a sack; and dozens of others. It can’t
be decided whether even they would have had
the power to stop the rot; the cold fact is.
that the talkies and movies have won a
remarkable popularity, and another even
colder is that for a long time variety turns
have been undistinguished.... Better to
let the ghosts fight out the reasons among
themselves.
Apart from this final tragedy, little bits
of black wrap round the history of the old
house in oddish places. Probably the most
poignant of the lot was the throwing of
pennies on to the stage by an audience that
underestimated the brilliance of Little Tich,
or which, having seen the accomplished little
gentleman’s turn performed indifferently by
sundry stage pirates, thought Tich was
doing the pirating. That was most tragic
because, as J. B. Booth points out in his
latest .book of stage reminiscences, there was
no one more sensitive. than Tich to physical
or any other shortcomings. He was a broken-
hearted little man at the end.
Of tragedies of a more violent kind, one
occurred in 1896, when a chap fell over the
railing of the gallery. He wasn’t hurt, but
the man in the stalls upon whom he fell died
a few days later. Earlier, when the Tivoli-
to-be was the Scandinavian Hall, it was
leased for' a while by lightweight Johnny
Sullivan and called Sullivan’s Athletic Hall.
There two pugs battered each other to such
effect that both were removed to hospital—
to die; which must be near a record in
knockouts. Incidentally, during Sullivan’s
brief reign Larry Foley had a great fight
with Miller there. After that a Hebrew,
whose name is not recorded in history,
turned the place into a clothing factory,
though it was not till many years later that
a fire occurred. The unspecified son of
Israel hung on for only a few months; then
the place was a billiard saloon, after which
it became the Victoria Hall, and as such
provided a platform for William Redmond
and Home Rule in 1882. Next year it bios-
ŵ
HARRY RICKARDS.
old spot of many spots the cakewalk is
alleged to have been introduced to Aus-
tralia.
Those things happened long before the
Kickards rule began. Rickards, whose name
was Benjamin Leete (and whose brother
John C. Leete, long its manager, looked
after the house for the final night on Satur-
day), was an interesting personality with
a Cockney way of putting things, especially
repartee. One night, getting off his chest
a statement regarding the high salaries he
paid, he was interrupted by a voice which
called him bluntly a liar. “So’s yer old
man,” was Harry’s retort. He used to
make an important business of seeing Mrs.
Rickards out to the carriage waiting in front
of the theatre. Head high, he would escort
her on his arm to the carriage, bow her in,
lift his hat, give the driver the word, and
then get in himself. Passing out one night
as usual through a double line of gaping
spectators, he was greeted with the grudging
comment, “Gord’s truth ! ’Arry Rickards !
I knoo ’im when ’e didn’t ’ave a shirt to ’is
back.” Harry and liis lady passed on. As
usual he bowed her in. As usual lie lifted
his hat. As usual he gave the driver
“Home,” and then he turned. “And as for
you,” he said dramatically, “you can go
to —.” (The word he used is forgotten;
but it wasn’t “hell.”) He had a great
fancy for adorning himself with diamonds,
and before one court case in which he was
sued he was advised by his counsel to take
the rings off his fingers and “uncrust” his
tie. It would never do, counsel him,
to go into court thus adorned. “Aw,” said
Harry, “what’s the use of havin’ ’em if you
don’t show ’em?”
That court case recalls that The Bulle-
tin, with George Reid defending, enjoyed
a libel action arising out of its comment on
a lady who was appearing at the Tivoli, and
who, it had been hinted, was uncovered a
trifle more thoroughly than was strictly
necessary, even for summer. The verdict
went against the lady, and, in addition, she
was asked, unsuccessfully, to pay costs.
Otherwise The Bulletin has never had
other than the friendliest dealings with the
Tiv., and it takes this chance of thanking all
the old friends it has had there, including
J. Donaghue, who goes to the Palace, and
B. Breen, who has looked after one door
and another for 30-odd years—a figure that
even the management’s recent fancy for rig-
ging its staff out like rear-admirals could
not prevent from looking like a gentleman,
and being one.
Mention of old hands must include also
one Stump, who reigned in the uncivilised
days before a chucker-out blossomed into an
attache. Stump wasn’t as popular as he
might have been among the gods, chiefly
because the revellers he heaved out were
often regarded as better entertainment than
that emanating from the stage. Stump had
a nasty habit of following elevated late-
comers and ordering them loudly to “Take
orf yer boots!” It was a provocative order
that usually brought a heated refusal, fol-
lowed by a scuffle and then the spectacle
of Stump’s boot helping the reveller out.
There are sundry old gods still walking the
earth who recall one night when a bush
cove arrived just as a lady on the stage was
making a more valiant than successful effort
to reach a high note. “Take orf yer boots!”
Stump growled. “Take yours off,” retorted
the bush bloke. Stump approached in
bounds, and the gods felt sorry for the
stranger. Stump got hold of him, scuffled
with Mm and hustled him out to the exit.
There was a bump-bump-bump as the body
thudded down the stairs. The gods waited
for Stump’s return. Then they rose and
cheered while the bush cove blushed and
went to his seat.
If Stump had happened in when The
Bulletin paid its last compliments on
Saturday night he might have taken off his
own boots and emulated the Arabs. To
speak of the house as packed is the mildest
way of putting it. Stalls, dress-circle, gods
—every floor was crammed with a crowd
that overflowed on to the stairs and stood
in the so-called “standing room” at the back.
Even the attendants were inside!_ There
was a fair string of old hands doing their
old turns, cracking the old jokes that prove
the direct descent of variety from the Garden
of Eden —George Deane, Ada Berridge, Jake
Friedman, Jimmy Bain, Maud Fanning,
Bobby Watson, Peggy Pryde (“You should
’ave seen that weddm’ cake! The kids ’ad
been at it. It was like a mangy cat!....
Aw, Gawd’s trousis!”), Bob Driscoll, Addie
Towers, Mannie Aarons, Marcella Day,
Harry Linden. The reception must have
made them think of Paradise.
As far as the stage folk are concerned, the
Tiv. went out of existence with character-
istic obituaries. One example :
First Laddie: “By Jove, you’re quite a
good comedian.”
Second Laddie: “Go on !”
First Laddie: “My word you are. I’ll
keep you on for another week—and you
can help pull the place down.”
FRED BLUETT fe MO '(/ty/tem)
MARK
LLOYD
‘‘‘ANNETTE KELLERMAN
CHARLIE POPE I
Pa«i-
C>MC}yEvA\-v-> •
• LEE WHITE
LONG TACK SAM
VERA PEARCE
ELLA SHIELDS
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Hold Everything”
Palace “It Pays to Advertise”
Criterion “Lombardi, Ltd.”
Royal (com. Saturday) Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's “Show Boat
Royal “Journey’s End
King's “Whoopee”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt's Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies


a
a
♦
3
'Jt M
v/N/
THEIR FUTURE
IS IN YOUR HANDS
NATIONAL
GOVERNMENT
STANDS FOR
PEACE, PLENTY
AND PROSPERITY
With a glorious record of
which it is justly proud,
the National Government
impartially and honestly
is endeavoring to bring
about a state of Peace and
Prosperity throughout
Australia. This cannot be
achieved while the duplica-
tion of Arbitration Courts
exists. A Royal Commis-
sion specially appointed to
deal with the matter has
reported that Arbitration
should not be in the hands
of the Commonwealth
Parliament.
Give a vote for efficiency in
the conduct of Australian
industry.
Do away with the dual
control which is strangling
industry and decreasing
employment.
ẃ
LABOR
GOVERNMENT
MEANS-STRIKES,
UNEMPLOYMENT
AND STRIFE
Although the Timber Strike —
with its attendant horrors of
Basher Gangs, Misery and
Poverty—has been with us now
for some months, Labor leaders,
both political and industrial,
have either aided the lawlessness
of the strikers or stood idly by.
In fact, the Labor Party’s first
official act in the Federal Parlia-
ment was to pass a resolution
congratulating the Timber-
workers upon their defiance of
the Federal Arbitration Court.
Yet these very men are appealing
to you to place Australia’s future
in their hands.
Consider Theodore’s Queensland
reputation, and judge him
accordingly.
The Labor Party has not any
definite constructive policy to
relieve industry and increase
employment. The Labor Party
is fighting on a negative policy.
VOTE FOR BRUCE AGAINST THE BASHER GANG AND THEIR FRIGHTFUL-
NESS—VOTE FOR NATIONALISM AND AUSTRALIA AGAINST AMERICAN
MOVIE DOMINATION.
The Labor Party under the Leadership of Theodore
and Scullin, aided and abetted by the American Film
Octopus, is trying to cloud the real issue of this election
by raising the Amusement Tax Bogey. Do not be fooled.
This tax is directed against the Big Combines —NOT
THE THEATREGOER—NOR THE SMALLER
PICTURE THEATRE PROPRIETOR.
VOTE FOR PEACE, PROGRESS,
PROSPERITY FOR ALL
VOTE FOR THE SELECTED
NATIONAL CANDIDATE
Authorised by H. W. HORSFIELD, General Secretary, 15 Bligh Street, Sydney.


R°NE.°
BUSINESS
EFFICIENCY
METHODS.
British Manufacture
STEEL CABINETS.
FILING SYSTEMS.
VISIBLE CARD
RECORDS.
roneotype
DUPLICATORS.
ADDRESSING
MACHINES.
ON EXHIBITION AT
21 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
;
64 MARKET STREET, MELBOURNE.
43 CREEK STREET, BRISBANE.
GAWLER PLACE, ADELAIDE.
107 MURRAY STREET, PERTH.
:
PiONt
HATH'
Long Service
Is Assured
No Pioneer Leather Belt leaves the
Factory until it is thoroughly tested.
Every Pioneer Belt that is delivered
carries with it our confidence that
it will give maximum of continuous
service. It is true economy to
specify Pioneer Belting because of
its durability and low maintenance
cost under the most trying condi-
tions.
PIONEER Leather Belting
MADE AND GUARANTEED BY
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
Pioneer House, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY (our only city address).
INSURE WITH THE
Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Company—
Established 1878.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Tooheys, Ltd. (Sydney).
Net To Re- Re-
July, Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £,£>£>
1919.. 45,974 8 p'.c. = 32,000 13,974 20G.719
Reserves capitalised, £37,500 .. 169,219
1920.. 64,726 8J p.c.= 37,954 26,772 195,991
1921.. 73,273 9 „ „ 45,901 27,372 223,363
1922.. 82,856 9 „ „ 60,360 32,496 255,859
1923.. 96,899 9 „ „ 59,218 37,681 293,540
1924.. 117,570 9 „ „ 67,494 50,076 343,616
1925.. 129,132 9 „ „ 83,498 45,634 389,250
1926.. 147,915 9 „ „ 90,000 57,915 447,165
1927.. 159,101 10 „ „ 113,675 45,426 492,591
1928.. 168,449 10 „ „ 120,000 48,449 541,040
1929.. 170,294 10 „ „ 120,000 50,294 591,334
Important movements have occurred in the
N. S. Wales brewing trade during the last
12 months. The greatest was the Tooth-
Kesch merger; thus control of more than
nine-tenths of the trade in the State is now
in the hands of two brewing organisations—
Tooths, which has a lion’s share, and
Tooheys.
Meanwhile circumstances compelled changes
on Tooheys’ board: ill health forced Thomas
Hughes, who had sat at the head of the table
for the last 22 years, to resign; T. J.
Toohey, vice-chairman and a director since
the co. was formed in 1902, also resigned;
William Tilley, who joined the board of recent
years, died. In the places of two of them came
Mark Sheldon (chairman) and O. E. Friend;
both have high business reputations. The
third man, G. F. Hughes, has yet to prove
himself in this sphere.
Investment interest in Tooheys now cen-
tres largely in the prospects of the two
organisations joining to form one big operat-
ing concern. Amalgamation is not formally
under discussion by the respective boards at
the moment, but there were conversations
between Tooths’ and Tooheys’ old board—
the new one has scarcely had time to settle
down. The sharemarket’s opinion is that
it should not be long before something
happens. In July, 1928, it paid 295. for
Tooheys’ 16s. shares; after that the price
consistently strengthened, reaching 38s. in
July last, but recently eased to 355. ex div.
(10d.). At the latter price the immediate
return is only 4.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. Tooths’ pound shares, which lately
eased from 565. to 51s. 6d., give an imme-
diate return at the lower price of 4.8 p.c.
on a p.c. div. basis. Put another way,
the market believes that whether it buys
Tooths’ or Tooheys’ scrip it will come out
about the same in the end.
Of recent years Tooheys have made remark-
able progress. At the start paid capital was
£550,000 in £1 shares. But soon it looked
as though the assets had been over-valued,
so in the most handsome way the trustees
of the Toohey estates passed back 50,000
shares, and agreed to the rest being written
down to 16s. With an eye to the future,
the board thereafter moved cautiously,
keeping the div. down and sending substan-
tial sums to' reserves. During the last
decade capital has climbed from £400,000 to
£1,200,000 by .par issues, the div. has
advanced in two steps from 8 to 10 p.c.,
and £384,615, or over 33 p.c. of the total
net earnings, has been visibly added to
reserves, which were equal to 7s. lid. per
share at July 31.
Naturally the new money has not been
able to earn at quite the same rate as the
old. Variations in the returns on capital
and reserves combined are shown here-
under :
Average Net Written Profit p.c.
Funds. Profit. <>(f. of Funds.
1915.. £547,041 £60,206 £lO,OOO 11.0
1917.. 574,822 36,909 10,000 6.4
1919.. 599,732 45,974 10,000 7.7
1921.. 714,321 73,273 15,000 10.2
1923.. 922,393 96,899 15,000 10.5
l*rZ4... 1,067,091 117.570 15,000 11.0
1925.. 1,266,228 129,132 15,000 10.2
1926.. 1,418,003 147,915 15,000 10.4
1927.. 1,606,628 159,101 15,000 9.9
1928.. 1,716,815 168,449 15,000 9.8
1929.. 1,766,187 170,294 15,000 9.6
To pay 10 p.c. on capital as it stood at the
close of last accounts shareholders’ funds
then had to earn only 6.8 p.c. The ratio of
net profit to average capital was 14.1 p.c.
compared with 14, 14, 14.7, 13.9 and 15.6
p.c. back to 3924. Over the last half-dozen
years the management has been able, to keep
the growth in exes, back to £88,835, while
the spring in gross profits has amounted
to £162,230. Thus the net result benefited
by 45.2 p.c. of the increase, and that is
a very creditable performance considering
the rate at which taxation and wages have
climbed.
Here is a view of the expanding business
from another angle :
1920. 1925. 1928. 1929.
Capital .. £485,149 £999,591 £1,200,000 £1,200,000
Liabilities 91,320 309,225 493,656 497,220
Breweries,
hotels, etc. 442,379 1,114,334 1,546,053 1,593,197
Stocks .. 175,815 183,779 156,343 161,886
Book debts 158,445 445,011 581,897 584,413
Cash & public
securities 22,775 13,452 25,403 24,059
Finances are easy, of course. The more or
less liquid . surplus (£273,138, including
stocks) was strengthened by £3151 during
the year. Much of the increase of £1,150,818
in the book value of fixed assets since 1920
is on account of hotel purchases, which is
the way breweries have of ensuring future
income.
Although the book value of fixed assets is
now over 3J times greater than it was eight
years ago, the visible allowance for deprecia-
tion remains unchanged at £15,000. The
probabilities are that this amount, which is
not included with profits in the tables, has
been put to inner reserves each year. It
may be taken for granted that substantial
provision lias been made for contingencies
before the figures are written into the sheet.
The trade can never be exactly certain how
much it may be called upon to spend in order
to protect its investments. With prohibition
under the table the position in this respect is
perhaps less uncertain than it was, but the
fight will certainly not be abandoned.
Recentlv an extra 3d. was added to the
excise duty, but that has been passed on.
Now there is talk of legislation dealing with
the tied-liouse system; also there is a sus-
picion' that financial stress might be lurking
around the next corner, and nobody can be
sure what the effects would be on the liquor
trade. Still with the trade in so few hands
the maintenance of good profits should be a
relatively easy matter in almost any sort
of times.
Wilcox, Mofflin, Ltd.
To Re- Nominal
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 44,357 8 p.c. = 20,800 23,557 29,938
1920.. 148,665 13 ~ „ 41,900 ( 755 101,703
Reserves capitalised, £35,000 J ’
Losb.
1921.. 31,367 Nil 70,336
Profits.
1922.. 66,132 12i p.c. = 50,000 16,132 86,468
1923.. 75,070 12| „ „ 50,000 25,070 111,538
1924.. 60,682 10 „ „ 40,000 20,682 132,220
Loss.
1925.. 61,948 5 „ „ 20,000 50,272
Profits. __
1926.. 38,448 7 „ „ 28,000 10,448 60,720
1927.. 47,134 8 „ „ 32,000 15,134 75,854
Depreciation reserve taken in, £32,000.. 107,854
1928.. 58,693 10 p.c. = 40,000 18,693 126,547
Deficit.
Goodwill disclosed, £130,000 .. 3,453
Loss.
1929.. 12,110 Nil 15,563
Fluctuations in the wool, hide and tallow
markets have played queer tricks with, this
co.’s figures during the last decade. The
business is well scattered through Australia,
but only a small part of the earnings are
won from commissions. Hence profits are
governed chiefly by price movements in the
overseas markets. Last year those movements
were unfavorable. During the latter half of
1928 wool values were fairly steady, hut
locally prices -were from 5 p.c. to 10 p.c.
above London figures, so the co.’s buying
orders were curtailed. Then, during the next
six months, the value of the staple fell
sharply, and the season closed with bids
down about 25 p.c. for most lines. Also
there was a price shrinkage of about 40
p.c. in the hide markets, due mainly to lack
of support from American and European
buyers. And quotes for tallow and for sheep-
and rabbit-skins were below the previous
year’s level, too. Moreover, the co. was
caught with pretty substantial stocks. Be-
tween tlie lot, a loss of no less than £12,110
showed up and shareholders go hungry.
It is the second time inside five years, and
the third since 1920, that the co. has been
hit. In between there have been profitable
years, but nothing at all sensational. Before
that there was one glittering period. The
co. re-amalgamated the old-established busi-
nesses of George Wilcox and W illiam Mofflin
in 1917, and from the unprecedented boom
in hides and' skins that came three years
later the board was able to pay. a 13 p.c.
div,, make a small capitalisation (£35,000)
and put by £71,765 of the year’s net earn-
ings. Since then shareholders have had an
average of 7.2 p.c., and that has taken all
but a fraction of the aggregate net profit.
After deducting losses, but including the de-
preciation and renewals reserve (£32,000),
which the board tossed in with the general
lay-by a year ago, the average earnings over
the last nine years were only 7.5 p.c.
Capital, however, has had very poor sup-
port —much poorer indeed than was generally,
believed. Hitherto goodwill -and all fixed
assets were in one untidy lump, but in the
latest accounts the intangible has been sepa-
rated, and figures at £130,000. Assuming
that the amount has remained unaltered, then
the co. started with half its capital repre-
sented by goodwill, and at June 30 there
was 9d. of every pound share still so repre-
sented. Without a much more substantial
buttress profits are likely to run in and out
according to market conditions. And even
substantial reserves might not. save the co.
from losses. If they were used only to
enlarge the speculative transactions, they
might actually produce larger losses —as well,
of course, as larger profits when prices hap-
pened to run the co.’s way.
The year’s difficult trading and other things
are reflected in this next comparison of
balance-sheet figures:—
1921. 1924. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital. . £400,000 £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Liabilities .. 203,915 130,772 189,315 157,530
Fixed assets*. 299,935 320,603 324,706 213,396
Stocks .. 191,411 248,141 194,097 145,361
Book debts . . 179,618 123,459 235,612 181,819
Cash .. •• 13,439 1,947 1,448 1,392
♦lncluding goodwill down to 1929, when that
intangible asset was shown separately at £130,000.
The amount coming to sundry creditors
(£329,380) was worked down £42,355, but
£10,570 was tacked on to the suspense
accounts (£28,150), leaving a net reduction
of £31,785 in the debt. To do all this, wipe
out the loss and pay the previous year’s
final div., book debts were reduced £53,793,
and stocks were down £48,736. Thus the
more or less liquid surplus (£171,042, in-
cluding stocks) was £70,800 lighter than at
the previous balance. Nothing is said as to
the basis on which stocks have been written
into the sheet, and much obviously depends
upon that.
The market, mindful of the risks and the
substantial amount of intangibles, pays only
16s. 6d. for the pound shares as against 235.
6d. a year ago. The return at the current
price is 8.7 p.c. on the basis of the average
div. over the last nine years. The net tan-
gible backing amounts to 19s. 3d. per share,
of which 10s. Bd. is represented by freehold
and plant.
Walkers, Ltd. (Q.).
Dividends and Written
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. Reserves.
1919 .. £ 47 Nil £ 12,420
1920 .. 12,005 7 p.c. = 9,291 2750 12,384
1921 .. 12,198 7 „ „ 9,291 2750 12,541
1922 . . 30,478 10 „ „ 12,419 2750 27,850 ,
1923 .. 39,991 10 „ „ 12,419 2750 52,672
1924 .. 18,014 10 „ „ 12,419 2750 55,517
Diamond jubilee bonus (10 p.c.) £12,419 43,098
1925 .. 17,245 10 p.c. = 12,419 2750 45,174
1926 .. 19,983 10 „ „ 12,419 2750 49,988
Inner reserves disclosed, £23,060 .. 73,048
Bonus (25 p.c.) paid, £31,048 .. 42,000
1927 .. 17,123 10 p.c. = 12,419 2750 43,954
1928 .. 17,801 10 „ „ 12,419 2500 46,836
1929 .. 20,690 10 „ „ 12,419 7500 47,607
Considering the obstacles that have lit-
tered tke path of engineering cos. in Aus-
tralia of recent years—amongst them keen
foreign competition from cheap-labor coun-
tries and steadily mounting costs —Walkers
of Maryborough have done remarkably well.
Including two cash bonuses shareholders
have averaged 14.3 p.c. over the last eight
years. And at June 30, there was £35,163
more of free reserves visibly supporting
capital than there was at the close of
accounts in 1921. Meanwhile the plant has
been completely remodelled at a cost of over
£40,000, and the whole of the Improvements
were written off out of the plant replacement
and suspense accounts.
Early in the last term the enterprising
management was able to secure contracts
for the construction of 10 locomotives for
Queensland and three for Tasmania. This
and a fair volume of small orders kept the
plant busy, and in some departments over-
time had to be worked. The board,
however, admitted to net profits only
£772 better than those claimed for the
previous year. But that was after £7500
had dropped from somewhere into the
plant-replacement reserve, making it £60,500.
This reserve does not form part of
the lay-by shown above; annua] additions
to it are included with profits in the table,
and then written off. Of the sum so treated
last year £2SB2 apparently represents the
carry-forward from the previous accounts;
the latter amount disappeared, as usual,
without comment. If it was not treated as
suggested, but was spirited away to inner
reserves, then last year’s profits were £2882
better than those shown in the table. When
the special cash bonus of ss. per share
was distributed in 1927, £23,060 of inner
reserves were brought to light.
Future results will primarily depend upon
the extent to which the plant can be kept
employed.- Since the public became interested
41 years ago there have been many changes
in the character of the co.’s equipment. The
construction of mining machinery, to which
the co. owed its origin, has long been a
dead letter. Also steam boilers, once a
regular item in the annual output,, have
almost disappeared from the list. At the
present time the backbone of the business is
the building of locomotives and sugar-mill
equipment. The demand for locomotives
depends upon Government expenditure, which
threatens to be pretty slender; that for sugar
machinery is seasonal, and the outlook there,
too, is one of restriction rather than of
extension. So the co. has been looking
around.
Of recent years engineering development
has proceeded along the lines of heavy in-
ternal combustion machines, particularly
crude-oil engines. Another promising line
is pulverised-coal machinery. It- was with
these in mind that the co/s plant was re-
modelled a year or so ago. Following that,
general-manager Goldsmith went to America
and brought back a license to use the J. E.
Kennedy co.’s patents in the manufacture of
pulverised-coal plant. Two of the staff
are to be sent abroad to study also the latest
manufacturing processes in connection with
Diesel oil-engines. It is not intended to go
baldlieaded into new enterprises; but above
all tilings this management wants to keep
young and abreast of the times. And it wants
also to widen its field, and thus overcome
the periodic slackness to which the business
is now subject.
This next comparison of balance-sheet
figures reflects the co/s sound position:—
1918. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital. . £124,193 £124,193 £124,193 £124,193
Liabilities . . 33,890 86,361 84,201 124,390
Fixed assets.. 47,350 33,158 25,647 17,572
Stock-in-trade 25,873 35,231 42,542 39,743
Investments . . 52,050 101,102 85,065 86,730
Completed work,
cash, debtors,
etc. . . 58,316 143,471 114,395 164,565
The outstanding feature last year was a
growth of £40,189 in the debt. But that
was more than offset by increases of £30,395
in the value of completed work on contracts
in hand (£41,603), and of £19,743 in other
book debts (£82,632). The position in this
respect will alter when the loco, contracts,
already referred to, are completed, probably
by the end of next month. The more or less
liquid surplus (£166,648, including stocks
and investments) was £8847 stronger than
at the previous balance. Fixed assets figure
at £78,072, against which there is the plant
depreciation reserves (£60,500), leaving the
item with a net book value of only £17,572.
Though the co. has no big new contracts
in hand, the sharemarket notes past per-
formances, present comfortable position and
the management’s vision, and now offers 275.
for the scrip as against 235. 6d. a year ago.
The return at the current price is 7.4 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The backing amounts
to 275. Bd. per share in net tangibles, mostly
more or less liquid.
McWhirters, Ltd. (Brisbane).
To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 65,396 10 p.c. = 55,000 10,396 51,192
1926.. 70,328 10 „ „ 55,000 15,328 66,520
1927.. 78,715 10 „ „ 55,000 ( R 47 q 74 999
Taxation Reserve, £15,236.. j ’ ’
1928.. 75,001 10 p.c. = 55,000 20,001 95.000
1929.. 75,000 10 „ „ 55,000 20,000 115,000
A shrinkage in the returns from wool and
sugar and the compulsory restriction of
Government borrowing did not make retail
trading in the northern State any easier
during this co/s last fiscal year. Competi-
tion sharpened, as it always does under such
circumstances, and unseasonable weather
late in the term caused an accumulation of
winter stocks. Still, a cut in prices and
judicious advertising enabled the vigorous
management to clear these before the boons
were ruled off. Mainly because of this the
board reckoned the year’s net profit at
£91,608, or £3193 less than for the previous
year. That, however, was before making
provision for taxation (£16,608), which was
£3192 lighter.
So the final result of operations for the
12 months to July 31 was the same as for
the previous term, which was a satisfactory
13.6 p.c. on paid capital compared with 14.3,
12.7 and 11.8 p.c. back to 1925. Hence the
10 p.c. div. remained a comfortable matter,
and shareholders can see the visible prop
for capital being gradually strengthened.
Over the last five years £74,204, or 20.3 p.e.
of the total earnings, has remained in the
business; and there whs 4s. 2d. of accumu-
lated profits to assist each pound of capital
when the books were last ruled off. Never-
theless, conditions are such that capital
would be none the worse for more support;
and it would be unsafe to count upon any-
thing better than a 10 p.c. div. in the near
future.
The expansion of the business over the
last four years is reflected in this next
comparision of p. and 1. figures: —
1925. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Gross profit £225,630 £254,212 £261,380 £261,290
Exes. .. 160,234 175,497 186,379 186,290
Net profit £65,396 £78,715 £75,001 £75,000
Last year’s difficulties show up in a small
reduction of £9O in gross profits, and an
increase of £3lOl in management and other
overhead (£169,682), all of which was offset
by the lighter provision for taxation, already
mentioned. Nevertheless, the business con-
tinued to grow. The aim is to build up a
lively turnover on small profit-margins; only
a couple of years ago there was a general
reduction in the percentage of “mark up.
While this policy should strengthen good-
will, it means keeping a tight hold upon
outgo, shrewd buying and clean stocks if
satisfactory results are to be won. In order
to establish closer touch with manufacturers,


■BIB
- ..
■
■
*
. ll '
IMUS
u
m
i
n
$%
ffilg;
m i
u
,i " *
'V >
.
r*>.
H
*>
:
WHERE RELIABILITY IS ESSENTIAL,
ENGINEERS SPECIFY TUDOR
Part of a Tudor Battery consisting of 300 cells, having a capacity of 1 7,000 ampere hours at
the ten-hour rate, recently installed in the Clarence Street Sub-station of the Sydney
Municipal Council.
This is the fourth large Tudor Battery to be installed by the Sydney Municipal Council in
their sub-stations. The batteries at the new Bunnerong Power Station are also TUDOR.
The same rugged strength and reliability is built into
Tudor Batteries for Country House and Farm Lighting.
TUDOR BATTERIES are supplied exclusively
with
and with
is?erjt&
DELCO-LIGHT
plants by
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd 1 ., Sydney.
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Melbourne.
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Brisbane.
Messrs. Parsons & Robertson, Ltd., Adelaide.
plants by-
Messrs. Dangar, Gedye, Ltd., Sydney.
Messrs. Malloch Bros., Perth.
For each of the above plants a special exclusive
type of TUDOR BATTERY is supplied,
specially designed to meet the individual
requirements of the plants.
TUDOR ACCUMULATORS
Australasian Office:
THE TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD. (LONDON),
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.


The “ Explosives” House
Explosives and Accessories of All Kinds
Supplied at Lowest Prices.
Manufacturers of
RENDROCK,
The Safest, Cheapest and Most Effective High Explosive Known.
Can be forwarded by Rail or Steamer at ordinary rates of freight.
Blasting Machines, Steel Rock Drills.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10-12ParramattaRoad,Camperdowiv, Sydney
More Burdens
to Carry
Many concerns are falling by,
the way, broken by high costs
and oppressive taxes.
Here’s a big co. that will
not pay even its unsecured
creditors 5/- in the £. The
pref. shareholders will lose
every penny.
Are you a shareholder? Have
you an insurance policy? Do
companies owe you money ?
Don’t lose your capital. Keep
yourself informed.
The leading Australian
authority on all these matters
is
“THE ‘WILD CAT
MONTHLY.”
October Number on Sale This Week
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PEE ANNUM,
22/G. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
Patents.- —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * t- *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
It cannot be denied that Pioneer Wood Pipe has
magnificently carried out all the claims made for it.
On many important installations it has proved its
outstanding efficiency. As a conduit for any form
of liquid conveyance, Pioneer Wood Pipe has shown,
under actual service conditions, that it can stand
up to the hardest usage with absolutely satisfactory
results. Cheap in cost, non-corrosive and unaffected
by extremes of climate. Write for illustrated data
book —free oh request. The Australian Wood Pipe
Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge),
Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footscray, Victoria.
—Advt.
*!»
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissipner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree.— Advt.
:j! * * *
Hydraulic' Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire ,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting; Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Hadfields
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadlields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and i Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
Foundries i Bassendean, Berth, W.A.
Branch ( 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Vic.
Office S T. & G. Building, Brisbane. Q.
managing-director Lansdowne went to Lon-
don during the year and opened an office for
the co. there.
Finances are very comfortable, as this
comparison of balance-sheet figures shows:—
1925. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital .. .. £550,000 £550,000 £550,000
Overdraft .. .. 17,633 —.—
Creditors .. .. 81,404 62,583 61,392
Freehold and plant . . 333,069 330,000 327,500
Stocks 272,282 270,117 248,755
Book debts . . . . 120,724 119,132 123,742
Cash, investments, etc.. . 1,655 32,746 72,063
At the close of last accounts the more or
less liquid surplus (£383,168, including
stocks) was £23,756 stronger than at the
previous balance, the improvement over the
last four years amounting to £87,544. Stocks
(£248,755, down £21,362 during the year)
are the most vulnerable point in the co.’s
armor. The chairman gives his assurance
that they were never cleaner, and that due
allowance has been made for depreciated
lines. Of the growth of £39,317 in cash,
investments, etc., £36,877 is on account of
London remittances. The small amount com-
ing to creditors may be taken as an indica-
tion that the management is alive to the
advantages of cash buying.
Since the close of accounts the co. bought
the salvage stock of Collier and Sons, Mel-
bourne, for cash. This stock was valued at
£45,000, and less than 5 p.c. of the merchan-
dise was damaged. It is the best thing that has
ever come into the warehouse, the chairman
says, so the current year’s figures can be ex-
pected to benefit. The general outlook for Bris-
bane retailers is less uncertain than it was a
year ago, and, for the most part, turnovers
are reported on the increase.
The sharcmarket, which notes the co.’s
satisfactory performances and the snug posi-
tion of its finances, expresses stronger con-
fidence in the future by paying 28s. for the
pound shares as against 275. a year back.
At the current price the return is 7.1 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The backing figures
out at 245. 2d. per share in net tangibles, of
which 11s. lid. is represented by fixed assets,
and the balance by more or less liquids.
Mercantile Bank—Liquidation Inevitable.
At last we are able to give something
definite about the Mercantile Bank of Aus-
tralia ; and, though liquidation is no more
than was expected, the position is in some
respects worse even than the “Wild Cat”
had anticipated—and that was bad enough.
From the very outset the thing was fishy;
but so vigorous was the share-selling cam-
paign, and so impudent were some of those
connected with the promotion, that many
hundreds of people—especially country
people—have lost their money. It is too
early yet to say they have been robbed; but
the known circumstances are such that the
closest investigation is called for.
The co. was registered in March, 1928,
with a nominal capital of £2.000,060, half
prefs. and the other half ords. The day after
the prospectus was published Min ter, Simp-
son and Co., the well-known and very influ-
ential Sydney legal firm, announced that their
name appeared on the document without
their authority. Then Edward Lucas, ex-
Agent-General for South Aus. and a sub-
stantial man of business, withdrew from the
directorate, leaving Percy Freeman, Harold
C. Macfie and Arthur C. Hopwood in control.
A second and even more impudent pros-
pectus was then issued. This time nominal
capital was bumped up to £3,000,000 in £5
shares, of which 200,000 were 8 p.c. (fixed)
cum. prefs., 200,000 cum. participating “A”
prefs. aud 200,000 ords. Of this lot the
public was offered 50,000 “A” shares at a
premium of £1 each, and 100,000 ords. The
(fixed) prefs. were to rank before all other
shares for the return of capital; after' them
and in priority to the ords. were to come the
“A” shares.
The co.’s demise, which came toward the
close of last month, arrived quite unbeknown
to most of the shareholders. It was brought
about in this rather interesting way. Eliza-
beth Briggs Johnson, of Drummoyne, Syd-
ney, who holds 50 ord. shares in the co. on
which £lOO has been paid, petitioned the
Court to have the co. wound up. The chief
grounds of her application were (1) that
the co. was unable to pay its debts, and (2)
that it had failed to commence business
within a year from its incorporation, nor
was it making any attempt to do so. The
directors readily agreed to all this, and
promptly briefed counsel to appear and con-
sent to the winding-up. His Honor made
the usual order.
According to the petition presented to the
Court, the co.’s capital account at July 15
last stood as follows: —
, Prefs.-— —^
“A”
Fixed. Shares. Ords. Totals.
Shares issued .. 2332 3773 4262 10,367
Amounts paid. . £3903 £7326 £5246 £16,475
It was further alleged that the assets are
of considerable value and sufficient to pay all
liabilities, and also a handsome “dividend”
to its members. Exactly what that means
shareholders will not know until the liquida-
tor has sorted out the position. The “Wild
Cat” will not be surprised if holders of the
ordinary shares do not get a penny of then-
money back. After paying off all creditors
in full, if insufficient remains to repay the
£11,229 of preference share capital, ordinary
shareholders may, it seems, be called upon
to find up to the unpaid balance of their £5
shares, notwithstanding that the “bank”
never opened its doox-s, and shareholders’
money therefore never had a chance to earn
a farthing.
One of the shocking parts of the whole
affair is the share interest held by the Sydney
directors, who wei-e also connected with the
promotion of the co. The original prospectus
provided that a director’s qualification should
be £500; in the second prospectus this was
altered to 100 shares of £5 each, but it was
not stated that the shares must be fully
paid up. At Dec. 10, 1928, the Sydney
directors held 100 pref sliai-es each. One of
them had then paid £l3O on his issue, and
the other two £5O (10s. per share) each.
What money they received from the co. by
way of fees, etc., will presumably be dis-
closed later on.
It is quite possible that the law officers
of the Crown might find in the co.’s affairs
much material to strengthen the bill that is
to bring N. S. Wales’ Companies Act up to
date, and is now under consideration by
Cabinet. The directors admit having made
no attempt to start the business of banking,
though sliareholdei-s subscribed £22,580 . for
the purpose. That is assuming that the
premium of £1 was paid on each of the 6105
pref. sliai-es issued. And, though £22,580
is not a vast sum it is worth recalling that
at the end of its first eight months of trad-
ing the Bank of N. S. Wales had a paid
capital of only £3625.
H'olders of Freney’s oil scrip had better
make sure their paper is genuine. Recently
eleven forged eex-tificates, each for 100 shares,
were discovered in Perth and Fremantle, and
no one knows whether this is the lot. The
suspected forgers are both doing time for
other offences —one in the East, the other in
the West. The forgery is the second of its
kind in the history of Wcstralian mining.
The other was of Great Fingall scrip, and
occurred in 1904. In this case application
was made to a firm of brokers for a loan
of £20,000 with which to purchase 5000 shares
in the co. The shares were the joint pro-
perty of the applicant and a friend, in whose
name they stood and who wanted to sell
them. The brokers arranged with a bank
for the loan to be paid on production of the
certificate duly made out in their names.
This was done, and ■ the broker’s client got
the money less brokerage, and then absconded.
Later it was discovered that the signatures
of the directors appearing on the new share
certificate were forged. The co. refused to
put the bank on the share register, and the
brokers were compelled to recoup the bank
the £20,000. The brokers subsequently sued
the co. for the recovery of the money, but
the Court was against them, and on appeal
so was the House of Lords.
* * * *
Mt. Lyell is prospecting the lower-grade
deposits in its numerous pi-operties. It has
recently cari-ied out diamond drilling and
other work on the Lyell Comstock, Prince
Lyell, Royal and South Tharsis. At last
year’s rate of extraction (126,596 tons)
there is about eight years’ work measured
up at North Lyell, where the crudes average
over 6 p.c. copper; the average assay for
the other propei’ties mentioned is only about
half of that. Increased tonnages combined
with cheap power, efficient mining, milling
and management, will, however, allow these
bodies to be worked at a profit with present
pi-ices for copper. During the co.’s last
fiscal year ended Sept. 30, 1928, electrolytic
averaged £67 per ton; it is now around £B4
10s.
* * * *
Placer Development, satisfied of the value
of some of its Bulolo dredging propositions,
is now faced with the problem of getting
the gold out. A subsidiary co. will be formed
to do the work. Meantime two of the co.’s
directors, C. A. Banks and F. W. Griffin,
are to have a look at the first part of the
task ahead —the part that stretches from the
beach at Salamoa to the valley 6000 ft. high,
in the mountains. They left Sydney last
week-end, and took with them R Wilson, of
Concrete Construction. The problem is the
laying of a road to carry heavy transport
through the difficult mountain country. The
Administration has made a start with this
job, but Placer representatives are likely to
get a shock .when they arrive and see how
little has been done.
* * * #
“Old Warden”: Reports on some of the
New Guinea and Papuan gold finds are
built on the faith that will, so it is said,
move mountains. A late one is on Mt. Law-
son Goldlands. The field is located thou-
sands of feet up in some of the most rugged
mountain country in the world, according
to a Papuan magistrate who traversed the
range near the spot a few years ago. Yet
this latest report assures us there are no
obstacles in the way of easy transportation.
It also asserts that water is plentiful. No
one familiar with this region of continuous
fog and rain will contradict that. The
alluvial gold values per cubic yard, as estab-
lished fcy 49 shafts and numerous costeens,
are set down as from 11s. 4d. to 175.,
and there is osmiridium in addition. The
12 leases taken up are valued, on paper, at
£6,313,500. It may be a conservative esti-
mate, but one would have liked to hear
something about probable costs as well as
possible values. That six millions’ worth of
gold won’t be much good to shareholders if
it costs, say, seven millions to win. This
is an important item frequently overlooked
in mining reports.
* * * $
Cloncurry copper gougers, nearly 200,
depend largely for their profit on the rebate
of 75 p.c. on cost of railing to Townsville.
During 1928 they dispatched 7330 tons
assaying 23 p.c. copper and worth £8 12s.
per ton on the trucks at ’Curry. Most of
the tribute agreements made are short-
termed ; this, unfortunately, has led to the
adoption of methods of extraction that
threaten to quickly cripple the field. The
ore is treated at Kembla (N.S.W.).
* * * *
Return Creek dredging (N.Q.) lias been
unsatisfactory to date. This is bad luck, be-
cause there are several areas in the district
considered suitable for dredging, and if
Return Creek crashes the others won’t have
a hope of being equipped. There are areas
in the neighborhood quite suitable, too, for
large-scale hydraulicing.
* * * =i=
Bismuth production in Tasmania may
brighten again if the treatment plant at the
Stormont is successful. Here bismuth occurs
as the native . metal and as a sulphide in
limestone much altered. But bismuth is
one of the few metals for which no new
important uses have recently been discovered,
and the market is uncertain. It is worth
7s. 6d. per lb. at present.
* * * *
Tasmania’s asbestos deposits at Beacons-
field and Birch Inlet are having attention.
Australia imports crude asbestos in large
quantities, mainly because the domestic pro-
duct has not sufficient fibre length, or if it
has it is mixed with too much gangue.
* * * *
After hearing what chairman Hamilton
had to say recently in London, Golden Horse-
shoe shareholders had no difficulty in mak-
ing up their minds about the merger with
Lake View. This provides for the issue of
one Lake View share for every Horseshoe
pref., and one Lake View for every three
Horseshoe ords.; also for the formation of a
new co., in which Horseshoe pref, and ord.
holders will receive share for share, to ac-
quire the remaining Horseshoe assets. The
chairman spoke of the re-treatment of
35,000 to 40,000 tons a month of the big
pile of dump material at a profit of between
Is. 6d. and 2s. a ton.
sjs $ •!'
Emu Co., with good Adelaide backing, first
tried its luck at Wiluna (W.A.), and, losing
some financial feathers there, had a flutter
in Fiji and lost some more. Now its shares
have risen from practically nothing to
nearly a pound apiece on cheering news from
Central Australia, where it has a silver-
lead show. James Hebbard has been sent
up by’aeroplane to report; and he has been
followed by a party in another flying ’bus.
$ * *
Greenbuslies tinfield (W.A.) has been well
probed by drills during the past 12 months.
In all eight holes totalling 2433 ft. were put
down at a cost of £2793. The best result
was on the Lost and Found, where a tour-
malised dyke 12in. wide assaying 0.9 p.c. tin
was penetrated. But the boring generally
was anything but satisfactory. On this
field, which has yielded 11,00*3 tons of tin
oxide valued at £1,000,000, a large number
of pegmatite dykes occur in hornblende
schists. Tin occurs widely distributed and
payable ore is simply an unusual concen-
tration.
* * * *
The Westralian Government comes to the
assistance of the mining industry pretty
generously. In special cases it reduces water
charges and freight, it frees owners from
payment of premiums to cover occupational
diseases, operates 22 batteries and numerous
drilling plants, and helps prospectors by way
of sustenance, equipment, etc. And all this
is apart from the usual assays, reports, geo-
logical advice and experimental ore-dressing
work. The total assistance last year ex-
ceeded £140,000, or about 7 p.c. of the value
of the mineral production—£2,loo,ooo,
mainly gold and coal.
* * *
Westralia’s latest tin find at Holletin, near
Southern Cross, has become unimportant at
shallow depth. Some rich stuff was struck
near the surface, but a few feet lower down
the ore was very much on the poor side,.
Attempts to float a co. in Adelaide to take
over the venture have thus far failed.
* * *
Northampton (W.A.) is being geophysiced.
Mining on this old leadfield is at a low ebb,
the increase in the price of the metal not
being sufficient to stimulate production. The
output to date has been valued at £1,265,000.
* * * *
Ingliston Consols, the sheet anchor of
Meekatharra and one of the few. Westralian
out-back mines of much account, has just
had its deep-level prospects improved by the
discovery of ounce ore in the bottom work-
ings. This has greatly relieved the anxiety
of shareholders.
* * * *
Burma Malay has advanced another step
in its curious argument with the State of
Pahang. Some time ago Burma secured an
option over a million acres of- land in the
State, and this became known as the Jelai
Concession. It was acquired from the J. H.
Irving group, which held a title from a local
rajah, who in turn held from the Maharajah
of Pahang. Burma Malay sent field-engineer
King to do some preliminary testing. The
local warden, a British official, warned King
off. Later Burma Malay set going an action
in the F.M.S. courts, and applied for an
order joining the Maharajah and others con-
cerned as defendants in the cdse. The in-
junction was refused, but on appeal to tkp
High Court the finding was reversed and
the appeal upheld. There the matter stands
at present. Pahang is a semi-independent
native State, and the case, whatever the out-
come, is of particular interest to shareholders
in Malayan tin dredging cos., since the right
of the British suzerain to intervene in such
matters should be thoroughly threshed out
and a definite ruling arrived at. As matters
stand at present, doubts often crop up in
this regard, and add to the difficulties oi
acquiring mining options and rights.
*!•


Generous Measure/
All yours for
Your Lucky 2\ - will buy —
Latest type “Valet” Auto Strop Safety Razor
in a serviceable case.
2 genuine ** Valet Blades in Plated Blade
Sheath.
“Valet” Strop together with Tube of Auto
Strop Shaving Cream.
V" >»
™ £
•£>
r THIS 003
“VAL
Shaving (
Bla
'Z7//
; also
■
of
7/
t/J*
; # i
mm.
VALET”
ylutxyStrop
Safety
Razor
Shaving
Cream
Special Offer for a limited
period only
British Made,
Managing Agents for Australia -
Of All Dealers.
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
THE SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER
e
QUICK HARVESTING cuts down
the period of crop insurance;
reduces loss of grain from shed-
ding; makes the harvest season
short, sharp, and therefore more
economical.
mm
ms
pap
12ft. COT. SELF-PROPELLED.
HARVESTS FORTY ACRES OF CROP
IN A DAY.
CONSUMES ONLY HALF A GALLON
OF PETROL TO THE ACRE.
m
STORM FLATTENED AND TANGLED
CROPS ARE SUCCESSFULLY
HARVESTED BY THE
SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER.
ALSO CROPS INFESTED WITH THISTLES.
NO OTHER MACHINE CAN EQUAL
ITS PERFORMANCE.
•• *; * -
\
TWO MEN ONLY REQUIRED
on the Auto Header —one to
drive and one to tend the
bagging. Labor is the most
expensive item in harvest costs.
This machine reduces it to a
minimum.
BH
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE, AUSTRALIA.
BRANCHES:
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne. 27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide. Cr. Murray and King Streets, Perth.
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
H. V. McKAY (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
Catalogue, Price and Terms -posted jree on request.


Mi
-
.
mm
>*
S*x?
*
mW:
■
M
s >
" s
ixJS
i I
;*S» :
ifc,
i '.'- «
m i
;*W«j
r? : ;
'
iWii
ilp
M >«*
NS ■
.
mb
Zis>
W
* >A „V '.•."\<k<£s
iSS
MSw
■ ?
i i
w /v . / '
N<S*2
mm
M
m
■
i ®
i
iMSi
N
mm
m
m'
m
m
wmmm
:-»r.
M
l|l|l|i|P
li
J iV.',-'" '^v.
'• .- : '
■ I \ j
mmmm
s*
w
' x
■ ■
1 »*'* ;
■Ssiii
m
::
„„ -* r~-
y
< wSM.
mm
•vw»
liil
II
11
SSS®
Sw&iii
lift ' •• Bi®" *
1 il
|
B • . .• .. miwbSm mm%
x v '"
. . ' '■■ . .
•iiiii'vSiS
wmm
jSt, i vw .• \ x' :
j
mm
m,
. •'
i
««
-
ss9i
ISMMIII
m
iiiiSS
Remarkable medical discoveries have re-
cently been made. • Great scientists, like
Voronoff and Steinach, have combatted
the problem of premature old age and the
decline of health and efficiency in the
human machine, with astonishing results.
Perhaps still more striking, from the view-point of every-
day utility, has been the success attending the introduction
of vitamines, through the medium of a special type of Yeast.
It is now established that these "vitamines” form the key-
stone of Life and Health —without them real
health (to say nothing of clear skin) becomes
impossible! Scientific experiments have proven
beyond doubt that active yeast contains an
element of amazing restorative, life-giving
power.
Rapid change from ill-health to
forceful Youth and Vigor
By means of a tiny proportion of this con-
centrated yeast substance (1/15 -thousandth of
an ounce ) paralysed pigeons have been cured
in a few hours! 200 lbs. of active yeast produce less than
an ounce of the super-active substance , which is the real
lif e-giver ! This is, as it were, the vital part or “Cream”
of the Yeast-— quite different to brewers’ yeast —a super-
concentration that can bring about the rapid magic change
from ill-health to forceful Youth, Vitality and Vigor.
Yeast is Life
The Most
Effective
Form is
Cream of Yeast
\A Phenomenon —Yet Scientifically proven
beyond doubt
Consider what the capturing of such a wonderful substance
means to weak, jaded, run-down men and women! And it
has been captured! In Cream of Yeast, active yeast is now
harnessed to other medicinal agents of known value, in a
form which makes it the ideal remedy for everyday ills!
The organisation manufacturing “Cream of Yeast” is the
largest in the world producing any form of activated yeast.
It has the largest staffs of scientific chemists; has
greatest chemical and financial resources, and actually made
several millions of vitamine tablets in the course of work
leading up to the great triumph achieved in “Cream of
Yeast.”
Cream of Yeast a great advance on
other forms of Yeast
Since only a tiny proportion of the yeast is
especially valuable, it will be understood why
“Cream of Yeast” is so Superior to cny other
kind of yeast available. “Cream of Yeast”
supplies, in handy tablet form, the most active
known concentration of effective yeast and
recuperative agents “Cream of Yeast so
scientifically incorporates the vital active yeast
with other acknowledged restorative, energy-
giving and pain-quelling agents that the power
of the yeast itself is vastly increased and the promptness of
benefit greatly accelerated. Not only will “Cream of Yeast
calm the nerves of the most hystericalnot only will it
bring sweet, refreshing sleep to the sleepless, but it will
quickly clear complexions, and will make anyone feel fresher
and brighter in a few minutes. Further —it offers the
following unrivalled advantages;
Some of the Remarkable Benefits available through Cream of Yeast
“CREAM OF YEAST" WILL RELIEVE
Acidity, Heartburn, Indigestion, Dyspepsia in 3 mins.
Headaches, Dizziness, Neuralgia, etc., - - in 4 mins.
Depression, Irritability, Brain Fag, etc. - - in 8 mins.
Periodical Pains ----- -- -in 12 mins.
Influenza, Catarrh-Colds, Rheumatism,
Neuritis, etc., within ------- 15 hours
Clears Boils, Pimples and Skin Eruptions, usually within 2 days.
Be Sure to Ask Your Chemist , Grocer, or Storekeeper for Genuim
0
CJhe Super
QTeast CTgniQi
Insist on having
genuine Cream
of Yeast.
COMPRESSED TABLETS OF
CREAM
OF
YEAST'
The Perfect Yeast*
Vitamine Tonic
Compound
K. SURE. SAFE
u 6 STRUNG! U OIVER
Kspirm. Caf*
and Ordinary
pping Pa»OS
c*
si
laboratories
Three Sizes 1/11, 3/6 and 5/9


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
branches in various states.
kTHEGREYSJ
SIZEoTWO
SILK CUT VIRGINIA.
DRAP
EYS
E® for 9«1. CIGARETTES 2B© for 1/®
They Satisfy
because they are made from 100
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys”
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a “GREYS.”
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights”
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20.
82 Macleay St.
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT, SYDNEY
( Located, within the City Boundary, ten
minutes from G.P.0.)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 160 rooms, is now open, and
features Single Rooms, Double
Rooms with Bath, and two-, three-
and four-room Suites with Bath.
Central Heating, Hot and Cold
Water, ’Phone and Bedside Lamp
in each room. Unsurpassed
Harbor views.
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines).
Telegraphic Address: “Fifmac,**
Sydney.
A BORIGIN
ALITIES
“Cadonga”: The shearers agreed that the
tucker wasn’t fit for a dog. A meeting was
held, and it was decided that one of their
number should interview Bradford-Topp and
endeavor to have their grievance redressed.
The choice of ambassador fell on Stumpy,
because he had been declaiming so volubly
against parsimonious squatters. Stumpy had
never before had thrust upon him a mission of
such consequence, and he set off for the home-
stead swelling with importance. But when
he was confronted on the verandah by the
squatter, a majestic old man with a silvery
heard, Stumpy felt small, and he couldn’t
bring himself to recite all the brave things
he had been rehearsing on liis way to the
big house. So he began first to talk about
TELLING TALES IN SCHOOL.
TEACHER: “You must bring an excuse from your mother next time you are late.”
MICKY: “Please will dad do? Mum says he’s chock-full of ’em.”
the weather, and then tried one noncontrover-
sial subject after another. The squatter was
affable, and -so they conversed for about an
hour. At last Stumpy felt the time had
arrived for him to introduce the object of
his mission. After much preparatory cough-
ing he began, in a declamatory manner;
“Mr. Bradford-Topp, as you proberly know,
you’ve got a hell of a name with the boys,
but, speakin’ for meself, I reckon you ain’t
half the rotten old cow they make you out
to be.” And to this day he wonders why his
mission failed,
* * * *
“Ingpen”: Members of S.A. Assembly had
a harrowing experience debating the new
Pastoral Bill. Opposition-leader Hill was
the first to get into difficulties with a list
of abo. names of pastoral companies and
their holdings. He declared they were worse
than Welsh. T. Butterfield congratulated
Hill on the fact that the list omitted the
Yadmalpipoorina and Cardajalburrana water-
holes, to say nothing of Alcupeaddikilcoolana
Creek. Dr. Basedow, Binghi’s big brother
in the House, capped these with Lake Caddi-
barrawirraginna and Yangingurrakupula-
mattikantana, the last the name of a gin
of the Dieri tribe. At this stage the press
gallery went on strike.
* * * *
“Keystring”: I was staying the night at a
little bush pub when Mick the Spieler blew
in and wanted someone
to play poker. A quiet-
looking chap obliged, so
we gathered round to see
the lamb shorn. There
was no limit on the rise.
The quiet bloke was a
few bob ahead of Mick
after a quarter of an
hour. Then Mick won a
small bet and dealt. The
lamb chipped five bob,
and Mick went five bob
better. The lamb rose
again and Mick shoved it
up two quid. Thereupon
the lamb threw down his
hand remarking to the
bystanders: “Two pairs
of Jacks ain’t worth two
quid.” Mick departed in
disgust saying: “A man
ought to be shot for sit-
ting in with such a mug.”
But when he’d gone I picked up his hand
Mick held four kings.
* * * *
“L.M.”: The real swaggie is seldom en-
countered in these days. As a regular travel-
ler over the whole of the N.S.W. Western
District, I can recall meeting only one of
the old school in recent times. He was
apparently between 60 and 70, and was
breakfasting on the roadside about 20 miles
from Forbes when I pulled up and offered
him a lift. “Push on,” he said, “I’m havin’
me breakfast.” I assured him that there
was ample room in the back of the car
where he could eat while we travelled, but
he curtly told me to push on. I pushed.
Contrast the old chap, to whom time
and distance mattered nothing, with the
present-day swagman, who, if not offered a
lift, will ask for one, and in the event of
a refusal become offensive. Most of the
men on the road now have no idea of roll-
ing a swag, or carrying it properly, the
majority being content to roll blankets, etc.,
'SONAH: “How old are you?”
FRIENDLY PRISONER: “Twenty-eight. Now, how old might y’ Honor be?”
’SONAH: “Never mind, but I can give you a few years.”
in a bundle which hangs by a strap or
rope over the shoulder, balanced in front by
a tucker-bag. I saw one the other day near
Warren carrying a suitcase and a sugar-bag.
* * * *
“F.C.”: There’s biblical support for “His-
toricus’s” theory that the Maoris are Israel’s
unaccounted for tribe. It is recorded in the
Good Book that during the wanderings of
the Children of Israel they had a good deal
of trouble with Moabites. As the moa was
a Maoriland specialty and could bite like
billyo, that seems to clinch the matter.
* * * *
“The Rumpus” : A magpie cobbered up to
my brother and I when we were
on a fencing contract. Each day
we carried our billy and lunch
so that we could eat where we
left off work, and each midday
Maggie put in her appearance,
sang a beautiful song of thanks-
giving from the top of our last
post, then hopped down and
joined in the surrounding of
what food was available. Many,
many miles our little camp mate
followed us, always ready with
a glorious cheering note. One
day in our hurry to finish our
contract and grab another, we
disregarded the usual lunch.
Maggie sang and sang during
the proper period for spell, but
we battled on like demons. Then
she suddenly thought she saw
what was the matter and flew
away. Ten minutes later she
swooped down at our feet and
up again, gracefully alighting on
the nearest post. Came the
opening notes of her magnificent
anthem. At our feet lay a
half-dead lizard !
ik
“R. Volt”: The mining engineer who
emerged from the grip of a grizzly in British
Columbia by feigning to be dead owed his
preservation to the animal love- of playing
catlike with a victim that helps in the game
by trying to escape. It is not only the genus
Ursus which indulges in this form of sport.
A Victorian cableman named Kent was
shooting snipe in a padi field in Java when
he was charged by a water-buffalo belonging
to the huge domestic breed which can be led
about by a small boy if his skin is brown,
but sees red when a white man comes along.
Kent lay down in the water of the ricefield
and took careful aim at the beast with his
shotgun, reserving his aim till he could
almost feel its breath. The ironmongery
drilled a hole a foot deep into the beast’s
forehead but without reaching its brain, for
the reason that it has none. The brute
retaliated by inserting its blunt nine-foot
horn three times into its victim’s body while
Kent revolved round on his back trying to
keep it off his heart. Finally he decided to
lie still, whereupon the game lost all zest for
the kerbau, which-went away. Ten minutes
later Kent tried a slight movement, where-
upon the buffalo came back and gave him
two more prods, nearly tearing him in two.
It was only after pretending to be dead for
half an hour that Kent exhausted the buf-
falo’s interest and managed to crawl unob-
served away. Incidentally, when he arrived
in the main street of a village two miles
distant the spectacle of a white man on all
fours was too much for the who
locked their doors. H'e was found later by
his friends, squatting in a bit of shade. An
iron constitution pulled him through.
* * * *
“E.S.S.” : Kogan had a draught-horse that
had made himself a nuisance by opening
gates and sliprails and getting out of every
paddock he was put in. So Kogan traded
him to Casey, who kept his gates padlocked.
One Saturday Casey drove into town, and
late that night a cart pulled up at Kogan’s
front door. Rogan shuffled out, and found
his old moke in the shafts and Casey asleep
in the cart. The rogue had passed Casey’s
place, two miles back, and got through a
double-gate and a set of sliprails in front of
his old home. “Well, well,” said Casey,
when he had got his bearings. “’Tis the
pest of a horse you sold me, Kogan.” “You
can’t blame him,” said Rogan, “seein’ your
gates are padlocked. Give the old moke the
key before you go to sleep next time.”
* * * *
“Hayband”: Simon Egan wanted grocer-
ies. Cooktown was four miles away, and
no native could be relied on to remember
an order that distance. Simon was devoid
of ordinary writing material. But there was
some timber in the camp, and an hour and
a half later John Clunn was deciphering a
charcoaled list that reached from end to
end of a 16ft.-length of 3 x 2 Oregon. Simon's
“letter,” swinging from the rafters, was a
star exhibit in Clunn’s shop for many a
year.
* * * *
“Fourwalls”: William Leroy was the
world’s champion naildriver, and he never
used soap. The secret of his success was
sheer brute strength. Known in side-show
circles of earlier days as the “human claw-
hammer,” he was fitted with extra-powerful
jaws and teeth, and his star turn consisted
in forcing a nail with his teeth into a piece
of hardwood about three inches thick; the
nail was driven in right to its head, and
then it was dragged out again with his
claw-molars. Leroy was able to perform
the same trick with a screw.
(Continued on page 25.)
BUDGERIGARS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The clear air’s cleft by an emerald flash,
And pings like the fall of a stockwhip lash ;
Swiftlier than eye-flash the parots pass
To lose themselves in the Mitchell grass,
And there, as the shipwrecked cling to spars,
On strong brown stems cling the budgerigars.
The Mitchell grass on the three-mile
Bends upwards and downwards and back
again;
Its surface is billowing to and fro
From weight of the birds on the stalks
below,
Till, as combers break on the harbor bars,
With ruthless swirl rise the budgerigars.
Swift shimmer of wings in a sapphire sky,
And the budgerigars have all gone by.
With leaves unstirred by aerial breeze
There’s a swish and sway in the gidya-trees,
And their sallow habit of dust-blown green
Gains a moment’s fire from the birds’ bright
sheen.
Then rocketing onward like shooting stars
Off and away fly the budgerigars.
N.S.W.
ISABEL HASSALL.


wmmmm
■hm
■HE
IK
mm
♦Mv<
mi
♦>
r
%
a
S 3
a
w
♦♦♦«♦!*
»r
/
♦:♦!♦
;:w
►X?
♦».
<*:♦.
♦!♦>.
♦!♦!♦
Pi©
•:«
K«
»!♦
*
wir
Vjl
3
3
r
»I 4
h .•' •': ",
mmmmmm
m&mmlw
♦»i<
k^4>B&
!8S
♦lt
♦!♦!♦
♦!♦!♦.
>3
v\\
\
S *tl
-»■■
/♦>
♦!♦>.
!i
PERTH - SYDNEY
RECORD SMASHED
BY
11 HOURS
51 MINUTES
Doctor Manning, accompanied
by his wife, in a CHRYSLER
“80” SEDAN, left Fremantle
on Monday, September 16th;
travelling via Hay and Mil-
dura, reached Sydney on
Thursday, September 19 th,
covering the distance in three
days 22 hours 52 minutes, and
lowering the previous best time
between Perth and Sydney
by 1 1 hours 5 1 minutes.
The Chrysler Car was
shod with Barnet
Glass Tyres.
è
| BARNET GLASS RUBBER, COMPANY LIMITED


'Positive Relief foin
RUPTURE-/
©
With its patent
■water pad, Den-
yer’s Elastic
Truss gives
every freedom
at w.ork or sport, is always
comfortable and provides
the ideal Rupture support. Trusses
also made to individual requirements.
Single 30/-
Double 40/-
Write for FREE
Rupture Pamphlet.
DENYER BROS.,
Department 1, 267 George Street,
SYDNEY.
/ILVER TOP
IMGIN
Sarnie Glass
Bottle
\ with the
\ GfeenLabel
a
rou
ff| SlLve»-Tor
I'DRYCIN
PEAPES
clothe men AND their sons.
Correct race wear is a harmony
of individual items which blend
so that every detail is in accord.
It is one of the results of buying
at PEAPES —the complete
House for Men.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
“E.S.S.”: I rode out one morning with
a full water-bag under the horse’s neck,
and when, I got off for a drink in a
dry paddock the bag was empty. There was
no leak. A hot wind, keeping the outside
of the bag dry, had done the trick. That
sort of experience has probably brought
about many a tragedy. I remember one
man who had decided to reserve a pint or
so to pull him over a dry track. He was
thirsty, but held out as long as he could,
so as to shorten the thirsty span to the
next -water; and then, when he lifted the bag
to drink, he found it empty. When wo
A BROTH OF A BIRD .
“I say this Gov’mint is like a ostrich—rushing blindly forward
with its head in the sand.”
“Yes —and sound asleep doin’ nothin’ but putting its ’ands in the
taxpayers’ pockets.”
found him he was in the dry horrors, which
can lick the wet ones hollow.
* * * *
“Sea Nomad”: The Sepik River (Man-
dated Territory) is no place for a shy man.
The traveller, once he steps ashore from boat
or canoe, is the centre of attraction for the
nigs, of the nearest village, and men, women,
flappers, children, tykes and pigs watch him
with all their eyes. When a man washes
himself they stand round at a distance,
watching his every move and passing remarks
as the soap lathers his ears and eyes.
They seethe with excitement when he shoves
a toothbrush into his mouth. Some argue
that he is eating, others swear heatedly
that he is sharpening his teeth. But the
most bashful business of all is taking a
bath. A man must either go without his
tub, or carry on in full view of the public.
The old hands carry on. As for me, 1 have
WHY THEY DOCKED HIS FRIEND’S TAIL.
TERRIER: “I wonder why they cut off my tail?”
SCOTTY: “Oh, for your own good, I expect. They were frightened
it would trip you up whenever you ran away from a fight.
never enjoyed a bath on the Sepik with
that gaping crowd gazing fascinated at my
every movement. The women are a darned
sight more curious than the men.
* * * *
“Gumblegubbin”: Rain at shearing time is
golden rain for the shedhands and the cook,
but it means a complete washout for the
barbers. Some years ago the shearing at
Mungadal, near Hay (N.S.W.), was con-
siderably interrupted by showery weather,
with the result that the cook, who dished
up for both shearers and rouseabouts, drew
£l2B for his services, and his offsider £B5.
Each rouseabout got £42. But the shearers,
whose cheques varied, averaged under £4O
for the whole nine and a half weeks.
* * * *
“Tano Fama”: The question whether the
Maori used bow and arrows has been
revived by the publication of a recently-
discovered document written by George Grey,
in which he contends that the Poly-
nesians learned the use of bow and arrows
and the making of pottery from the natives
of the Panama dis-
trict (Central
America), whom he
claimed were visit-
ed by navigators
from Eastern Poly-
nesia. Many years
ago copper-headed
arrows were found
on the Miramar
Isthmus, near Wel-
lington, but they
don’t help the argu-
ment, as it is prac-
tically certain that
the Maoris did not
at any time know
the use of metals
before the white
men came. A
wooden bow was
found in a swamp
at Mangapai, but
that isn’t conclu-
sive either, as the
Maoris were not
the first inhabi-
tants of their coun-
try. Missile wea-
pons were not em-
ployed to any great
extent by them, an
exception being the
curious hoer o a,
which was used as
a projectile at close
quarters. It had a
cord attached to
the end by which
the weapon was recovered after it was
thrown. It was usually made of whalebone.
* * * *
“Hayband”: Birds soon learn where they
are safe. Four years ago I moved to Seven
Hills, near Sydney. The district was, and
is, being denuded of timber. Also, Sunday
afternoon bird-slaughter was a recognised
“sport.” I left a very dense four acres along
a creek standing, and put all my feet down
hard on pea-rifles and shot-guns. Each year
since nests are Thicker, and naturally the
feathered population is greatly on the in-
crease. There should be some provision for
the registration and protection of such
sanctuaries, particularly when adjacent to a
city - *
“Kandavu”: It is given to few to be
stabbed to death by a fish. Yet this end
is not uncommon in the Western Pacific,
where the large
garfish, known to
Europeans as the
skipjack, abounds.
Wh e n distm-bed,
this chap is apt to
flit along the top of
the water with his
tail flapping on it
at great speed, and
more than one in-
stance of natives
fishing a reef being
fatally spiked have
occurred. A Fijian
case has just been
reported in which
a white girl was
injured, though not
fatally. The skip-
jack sti’uck her
arm with his spear-
like beak while she
was bathing. The
wound was dressed
and an apparent
recovery made.
Subsequent discom-
fort caused the arm
to be investigated
by a doctor, with
the result that a
piece of the beak
and jaw of the
skipjack 24in. long
was removed, which
gives some idea of
the high velocity at which the fish travels in
his out-of-water spurt.
* * * *
“Idad”: Though soft and pleasant to
taste when flowing through virgin country,
bush-water will change its character once
the land has been cleared or ring-barked.
A good example of this is in the Northern
districts above the Paterson and round about
Taree (N.S.W.). Creeks which in the old
days were drinkable are now so brackish
that one has to go miles to get a decent
drink. Also, a well sunk in timbered country
nearly always yields sweet water, but in
plain country it is ten-to-one that it will
be brackish.
* ■ * * *
“Sea Speck”: The most bloodthirsty
horse I ever knew was a Suffolk Punch I
owned. He was a
strange anomaly
altogether. In an
ordinary way he
simply hated the
taint of blood, and
it was quite out of
the question to get
him within coo-ee
of anything dead,
or where any ani-
mal had been
slaughtered. And
yet, with all this
detestation of dead
things, he killed a
valuable foal; de-
molished a litter of
young pigs, whose
mother had a bed
by a log in his
paddock; killed and
tore to pieces a
day-old calf, and
broke a cow’s leg.
After this holo-
caust he was iso-
lated, but before
ending his career
added to his crimes
by tearing limb
from limb three
young lambs that
were unwise enough to venture in where he
was confined.
* * * *
“G.8.L.” : An abo. word that might handily
be incorporated in the Australian vocabulary
ia “ettamogah,” the name bestowed on a
vineyard near Albury. J. Bayliss, of Wagga,
and W. W. Thorpe, of the Australian
Museum, Sydney, are agreed that it means
“Come and have a drink.”
*** V *
“H.D.”: At Kiu Kiu, near Gympie (Q.),
a farmer recently met with a strangely un-
pleasant misadventure. Taking a drink of
water at night time from a waterbag hang-
ing on his verandah, he partially swallowed
a huge centipede, which viciously fastened
on to his tonsils. Seizing the squirming
creature, the farmer tore him loose and
ejected him. Having despatched the insect,
he carried on business as usual, despite the
fact that not only his throat but his head
swelled to alarming proportions. The only
medicinal treatment he favored was rum,
and either that or his reinforced Queens-
land constitution, or both, pulled him
through.
;J: $ * *
“Ida D.”: The word “boomerang” is good
abo. lingo; and when “Historicus” says
(B. 11/9/’29) that “bumerang,” with a
similar meaning to our own word, was used
bv the Indians of Terra del Fuego he touches
upon the theory that South America and
Australia were once one continent. Shortly
after my return from Patagonia I gave a
collection of stone arrow- and spear-lieads to
the Sydney Museum. When Dr. Anderson
examined them he told me that the spear-
heads were strikingly like those of certain
Westralian blacks. But the only Indian word
I found at all like our abo. word was
“kameruka.” In a valley near Lake Nahuel
Huapi there is a huge stone image, and in
this valley the Indians gathered from far and
near for periodical “kamerukas” —prayer
meetings.
* * * *
“John E.” : Evening settled over the calm
surface of a long water hole fringed with
sprawling coolabali-trees. From where I lay,
waiting for my quart to boil, I commanded
a view of nearly a mile down the creek.
Suddenly a dark object appeared beneath
one of the coolabahs; then trotted out on
to a flat rock projecting into the water. It
was an immense dingo. Raising his muzzle
he scented the air first up-stream, then
down. Then he walked to the edge of the
water and dipped in one of his paws. I saw
him withdraw it, and shake his head
doubtfully. He gave a slight yap, and his
mate came into view, joining him on the flat
ledge. For some moments they conversed
in a series of interrogative yaps and whines.
Their expressions were unmistakably appre-
hensive. I wondered what could be
causing them anxiety. Then I knew. A
faint ripple on the surface not far from the
pair betrayed the presence of a crocodile.
The dingoes wanted to cross the creek, but
feared the hungry saurians. The bitch now
settled herself on her haunches and began
to howl agonisingly. Her mate spon fol-
lowed her example, and for 10 minutes I
was treated to a dingo duet the equal of
which I had not heard in 30 years’ experi-
ence on the Gulf. Louder and louder grew
the anguished howls. Then both ceased, the
dog looking inquiringly at the bitch. She
nodded and jerked her head down-stream.
Instantly both galloped along the bank, dodg-
ing the tree-trunks, until they had reached
a point about 300 yards below the project-
ing rock. Hastily I reached for my glasses.
Rounding a large coolabah. both dingoes
splashed into the water, and swam across
unmolested. Emerging upon the opposite
bank, they shook the water from their bodies
and looked back toward the rock with typi-
HORIZONTAL BAR WORK.
cal dingo derision The old dog winked at
his consort, and they disappeared under the
trees. I waited a while; I almost suspected
what had happened, and my guess was cor-
rect. Gradually the ripples on the surface
round the rock increased, until it was evi-
dent, from the splashing of the miniature
waves against the banks, that every croc. for
half a mile up and down the creek had
come to the spot. In the far distance I
distinctly heard two dingo chuckles.
The dozen superb drawings which Norman
Lindsay did to illustrate “The Quarter-
master” have been reproduced in two-tone
ink on art paper, and are now on sale at The
Bulletin’s chief office, Sydney, and at all
branch offices. The complete set of one
dozen drawings costs only 25., and to put
country subscribers on the same footing as
those of the cities, the set will be sent post-
free from the head office to any address in
Australasia.
THE DROGHER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“This month the drogher Oxley will complete
40 years of river service.”— jV.jS.IE. North Coast item.
With many a thud, with clang and whack
The old tub plugs up stream,
Strewing above her swirling track
A trail of smoke and steam.
As downward plunge her stern -wheel blades
She jolts in plank and strake; ■
The backwash gushes white cascades
Into the foaming wake.
Her bluff nose parts the placid tide
In waves to either shore;
The curlews flit away to hide,
The reed-larks skyward soar.
/
’Way aft above the engine-shed,
’Tween quiv’ring funnel stays,
The burly boss with gaze ahead
Surveys the wat’ry maze.
With practised hand he swings the wheel
His cumbrous craft to guide
Round shaded bends that ne’er reveal
The snags and shoals they hide.
The reach at length is all but past;
As heaves the bridge in view,
Her whistle throats a husky blast
Demanding clearance through.
And in response, as if aroused
From sleep before the dawn,
The groans and growls of joints unhoused
Precede its mighty yawn.
Beyond the bridge the stern-wheel stops,
She swings towards the bank,
With squeak and jerk the derrick drops,
Freed by the rattling crank.
Then calves and pigs, with roar and squeal,
And logs and corn and hides
Are stowed with art ’twixt rail and keel
Till deep the stream she rides.
The jetty cleared of outward freight,
All lines are cast ashore;
The skipper hails his grimy mate,
The stern-wheel thumps once more.
With helm hard over, round she goes,
Her engines rattle free;
She sweeps along the tide that flows
To meet the open sea.
N.s.w.
FRED AARONS.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Returned soldier (Vie.), 36, single, life experience
sheep and mixed fanning; bookkeeper; wants posi-
tion. Could take full charge.-—2493.
Returned soldier, D.C.M., single (35), exp. boiler-
maker (repairs), wants position in country (N.S.W.).
Take anything for a few months. Refs. —2485.
English girl, domesticated and good needlewoman,
wants congenial employment.—2392.
Englishwoman seeks post with refined family as
lady help or companion, as one of the family. Refs.
—2400.
\oung man, six years’ experience hand- and
machine-milking, wants job on N.S.W. dairy-farm.
Refs.—2424.
Young Scotsman (N.S.W.), experienced in laying
out of golf courses, green-keeping and coaching,
wants j0b.—2429.
Experienced traveller open represent boot manu-
facturers through Q’land; salary and exes.—2474.
Man, experienced in buying, selling and shipping
wool, hides, sheepskins, fur, skins, etc., wants posi-
tion as manager country branch, any State. Refs.
(To Box 35875, G.P.0., Sydney.)
Scot (Q.), 23, pastrycook and confectioner, wants
job. Consider anything.—2sl4.
Hospital sister will care for T.B. patient; beauti-
ful home southern highlands (N.S.W.). Every com-
fort.—2s7s.
Countryman (39), nomadic worker, travelled, fond
of literature, wants correspondents.—2s67.
Driller, sub-artesian and artesian licenses, steam
and oil tickets, oil drilling experience, available
Oct. Refs. —2510.
_ Governess, English, fully qualified, wants position.
N.Q. or Islands preferred.—23l7.
Lad (Vic.), 17, Wants job as jackeroo on sheep
station, anywhere in Australia. —2541.
Girl (N.S.W.), 18, commercial education, fond of
horses, wants position out back as lady’s companion,
etc. Refs. —2523. •
Investor or syndicate to take half share, gold-
mining lease (proved), 10-head battery, water, plant,
etc., all ready on ground. Capital required for
underground working 0n1y.—2382.
Unencumbered man (Vic.) wants mate on trip
to London and Continent. Share expenses. Third
or one-class. —2507.
To buy “Never More,” by Rolf Boldrewood;
“Red Harry,” by Fletcher, and “By Order of the
Company,” by Mary Johnston. —2384.
To buy “Advanced Wood Carving,” by Rogers and
Darnbrough.—2494.
To buy books, newspapers or articles dealing with
early days of Bathurst, or correspond with old
identity.—242o.
To buy “New English Dictionary.”—24l9.
To buy “Principles of Rhetoric,” by Hi 11.—2418.
To buy “Eyes of Vigilance” by Furnley Maurice,
and “The South Wind,” by Nettie Palmer. —2555.
To buy or make exchange for Kipling’s “Light
That Failed,” any date. —2560.
To buy Macmillan’s 3-voL edition of “Rolf Boldre-
wood’s” novels, Louis Stone’s “Jonah,” Lindsay’s
“Magic Pudding” and Masefield’s “Salt Water
Ballads” (1902). State condition and price.—2563.
Exchange 16 books Australiana for violin or
’cello. —2471.
Words of poem containing the line “Like men
wo’ll face the murderous, cowardly pack.”—247s.
Words of farce “The Dustman’s Revenge,” played
on the Harry Rickard circuit many years ag0.—2446.
Words of verses published a few years ago beginning
“What is it makes a man stick to the sea? ‘Ask
me another,’ says William McGee.” —2526.
Words of “The Shooting of Dan Mac Grew.” —2319.
Whereabouts of Thomas Gillatt, Lincolnshire. Last
heard of Sydney about 10 years ag0. —2489.
Australian (35) would like to correspond with
readers in Pacific Islands. —2451.
Man (Vic.) wants correspondents, preferably
Westralians, over 28. —2407.
Lonely Q’land family (husband, wife and two
children) want correspondents.—239l.
Young lady desires to correspond with anyone
interested in short-story writing, particularly those
whq have taken a course in the subject.—24s3.
Information Sought.
(1) Who is the head of the Common-
wealth Government Police Force at Can-
berra? (2) What is the salary of members
of the force? (3) What leave are they
allowed? (4) What allowances? —2090.
(1) The force is a branch of the Attorney-
General’s Department, and is subject to the
control of the secretary of that department.
The Chief Officer of Police is the Director
of the Investigation Branch. (2) Constables,
17s. 6d. to 20s. 6d. per day; sergeants, 21s.
to 235. 6d. per day. (3) 28 days’ recrea-
tion leave each year, and long-service leave
on the basis of 3 months for 15 years’ ser-
vice, 6 months for 20 years’ service, and
long leave in the same proportion as 6
months bears to 20 years for longer service
than 20 years. (4) Free quarters, and an
allowance in respect of Child Endowment.
(1) Where to apply for a position as
weighbridge clerk for wheat silos in N. 8.
Wales daring the harvesting? (2) Are there
usually many vacancies? (3) What are the
wages? (4) When do they start work on the
harvest ? —2325.
(1) Railway and Tramway Staff Board,
Sydney station. (2) No outside applicants
will be required this season. (3) 15s. 4d.
per day. (4) About the second week in
November.
(1) Has New Zealand commenced to re-
build or construct any of the places that
were shattered during the earthquake? (2)
Any work offering for concrete-workers, or
employment of any kind? (3) Do returned
soldiers get preference in N.Z.? (4) Is it
possible to work a passage, or to get a cheap
fare to any part of N.Z.? (5) Average
wages in the building trade f —2574.
(1) Yes. (2) No. There are thou-
sands unemployed in the Dominion. (3) As
a matter of sentiment, yes. (4) Very un-
likely. (5) Averages for 1928 were: Brick-
layers, plasterers, carpenters and joiners,
£5; certified plumbers, £4 155.; bricklayers’
laborers, £4 6s. 6d.; other laborers, £4 3s.
per week.
I have written and composed a song. What
is the procedure to adopt in (1) endeavoring
to find a buyer? (2) Arranging terms if
accepted? (3) What firm would be a likely
purchaser? (4) What is the usual basis of re-
muneration? (5) Are there any agencies which
dispose of this class of ivork? (6) What
is the cost of copyright, and where do I
apply?— 24o9.
(1) Submit words and music to a music
publisher for their acceptance. (2) (3) and
(4) J. Albert and Sou publish approved
songs on a 10 per cent, royalty basis, _ but
at present very little local song publishing
is being done. (5) Don’t know of any
whose special job this is. (6) Cost of copy-
right, ss. Copyright Office, Commonwealth
Bank Building, I’itt-street, Sydney.
A is managing director of a firm which
has been supplying electric current to a
municipal council. The firm has now sold
the electric-light plant to B. Is A eligible
as a candidate for office as alderman? —•
2410.
Yes, if he is absolutely clear of connec-
tion with contracts with the council.
A woman aged 67 was born in Australia
and resided here for about 48 years. Then
she went to Malay States, and after residing
there for about 12 years returned to Aus-
tralia and has resided here since. Is she
eligible for an old-age pension? —2292.
Yes, if she can show proof that she has
resided continuously in Australia for 20
years.
What is the difference between sago and
seed tapioca? —-2112.
Sago is prepared from the pith of the
sago-palm. Tapioca is prepared from starch
procured from the roots of cassava.
Meaning of name Burgoigee, given to a
creek in the n.-e. of Vic.? —2170.
Authorities disagree. A. S. Kenyon sug-
gests that Burgoigee is the same as Barwid-
gee, and means “a bend in a creek,” or a
bend where the aborigines used to eat. Dr.
A. Andrews says Barwidgee means either
white drink or going down.
(1) What percentage of acid, either sul-
phuric or tartaric, is added to molasses to con-
vert its sugar into “grape-sugar”? (2) Name
of a book dealing ivith the conversion of
molasses to golden syrup? —22o6.
(1) As the composition of molasses
varies considerably, no definite reply can be
given. In very general terms, it might be
stated that a "0.2 per cent, acid might be
used. The rate of inversion would depend on
the temperature employed. (2) Golden
syrup is not manufactured from molasses.
How to prepare wattle-bark, tanning solu-
tion for rabbit-skins, and method of use? —
2152.
Chop the wattle-bark very finely, and for
rabbit-skins allow about lib. to 1 gallon
water. Let the liquor brew for about 24
hours. Make a small cut on the edge of
the skin, and you will readily see if the
tanning has gone right through. If a streak
still remains in the Centre of the fibre, leave
in the liquor until it disappears.
(1) How long should skins be left in tan-
ning liquid? (2) What is used to soften
skins after they are tanned?- —1964.
(1) See answer to 2152. (2) Rub into
the flesh side any oil or fat.
(1) Kind of paper on which photographs
should be printed to obtain a sepia tone?
(2) Formula for sepia toning? (3) Are
there any tabloids or liquids on the market?
(4) Method of drying films, employing
in ethylated spirits ?- —2425.
(1) Any bromide print can be toned
sepia. Cream crayon is most effective. (2)
Bleach the print in a solution of ferro-
cyanide potas., loz.; bromide potas., ;
water 15oz. Wash in three changes of
water. Then immerse in sulphide soda, loz.;
water 15oz. Wash thoroughly. (3) Yes.
Obtainable from any photographic dealer.
(4) Place film in spirits for five minutes and
hang up to dry.
After living in Australia for eight years,
can a man known to be suffering from T.B.
return to his home in England? —lB9o.
If he could prove he was born in England
he could return. If not born in England
he would be required to pass the English
customs authorities before he could land.
If proof could be given that the patient
contracted tuberculosis within three years of
his arrival in Australia, the shipping co. on
whose vessel he came to Australia could be
compelled to return him to the port from
which he came.
(1) Will there be opportunities for em-
ployment when the whaling-station com-
mences to operate at Point Cloates in June
next year? (2) What qualifications would be
necessary? (3) Would it be a safe invest-
ment? (4) Address of the Australian
Whaling C0.? —2450a.
(1) Australians and Maorilanders are par-
ticularly desired by the co. (2) Practical
seamanship and a knowledge of butchering
would be useful. Ability to do hard and
dirty work cheerfully should go as far as
anything. (3) It looks a fair gamble. (4)
16 Barrack-street, Sydney.
In submitting typed MS. of novels to
publishers, is it usual to double-space the
typing as in short stories? —23B3.
Yes. All literary MS. should be double-
spaced, at least. Triple spacing is better
still.
(1) Has the name “ Loana” in “Paradise
Plumes ” any meaning? (2) Can you give me
an aboriginal name for a house on high
ground overlooking green river flats? —2431.
(1) It isn’t in Dr. Lawes’s Motu Dic-
tionary. Probably a derivative of the verb
“loa,” to wander or roam. (2) Bindooimbah.
(1) Is the manufacture of dye from coal-
tar still a German secret? (2) Id aniline
a liquid, and is it a common chemical or
a proprietary one? What are its uses apart
from dye? (3) Are there any non-oily sol-
vents for coal-tar? (4) Where can I ob-
tain yerba mate (South American tea)?
(5) Where can I obtain rye-grain or -meal?
(6) Is there a Russian library in Sydney?
—2076.
(1) No. (2) Aniline is a chemical com-
pound, containing carbon, hydrogen and nit-
rogen. It is not a proprietary article, and
is liquid at ordinary temperatures. Its
main use is in connection with the dye in-
dustry. (3) Yes. For example, benzene
(benzol) and its homologues. (4) The Con-
sul for Paraguay should be able to advise
you. (5) From the larger firms of grain
merchants. (6) Consult the Public Library,
Sydney.
(1) Where to obtain recent text-books on
the construction of gliders and sail-planes
until flying instructions? (2) • Names of
any societies or persons in Australia who are
interested in gliding or sail-planing, and
from whom information and advice could be
o btained ? —1630.
(1) There are no reliable text-books writ-
ten in English. Details of development types
can be obtained from Flight for 1922. De-
tails of satisfactory types are for the most
part confined to German literature. (2)
Sydney Uni. Glider Club.
In boring operations for water, petroleum
or minerals, is the casing of the bore in-
stalled as boring progresses? If so, how is
the borer recovered? —2394.
Not invariably. Much depends on the
nature of the “country” bored. Going through
sand, mud, etc., casing is imperative. In
the case of bores for oil, the cutting off of
water by casing is also often necessary. The
boring implement, be it bit or diamond drill,
is hoisted out by direct pull from the derrick,
usually by winch-power, this depending on
the depth reached.
(1) Where can I obtain a copy of a will
of a resident of N.S.W. who died about 20
years ago? (2) Cost? (3) What parti-
culars would I need to provide? —22Bl.
(1) If the will was lodged for probate in
N. S. Wales a copy may be had on applica-
tion to Registrar of Probates, Supreme Court.
Sydney. (2) Inspection fee, 25.; cost of
a copy depends on length. (3) Name, address
and approximate date of death,
I am thinking of starting a dairy at the
back of the house. The land is 123 ft. deep.
What would be the initial cost of starting,
including building? How much milk would
be required to start with? What regulations
must be complied toith in conducting a dairy
in Vic.? —2070.
Can’t advise as to cost, quantity of milk,
etc., without full knowledge of circumstances.
The premises must meet with the approval of
the dairy supervisor. Regulations provide
that milk must be kept in either a cool
chamber or an ice-chest and not sold at over
60 degrees F. This involves/ a daily cost for
either refrigerating machinery or ice (in an
ice-chest) according to the quantity of milk
being handled. The license fee would be £2
per year. Your best course would be to
arrange with the Chief Veterinary Inspector,
Department of Agriculture, Melbourne, for
an inspection by the departmental dairy
supervisor.
(1) Is there any institute or hospital in
Q’land for people who are sane but suffer-
ing from excessive fear delusions, etc.? (2)
In Australia? (3) In Europe?— 2lsl.
(1) No. (2) In Vic. and N. S. Wales
voluntary boarders .are received into some
of . the mental hospitals. Inquiry should be
made from the Inspector-General of Mental
Hospitals in Melbourne and Sydney. (3)
In England some of the private mental hos-
pitals are licensed to receive voluntary
boarders who are not certified as insane.
(1) Is there a board in N.S.W. control-
ling the erection of soldier s' memorials?
(2) Is it compulsory to have its permission
to erect a memorial? (3) Should a memorial
clock-tower in the main street of a town be
highei • or lower than the two-storeyed build-
ings surrounding it? (4) Should an accident
occur through this memorial at any time,
could action be taken against either the
local council or the memorial committee? —
2122.
(1) The Public Monuments Advisory
Board, which is attached to the N.S.W.
Dept, of Local Government, gives its ser-
vices in an honorary capacity to committees
proposing to erect monuments in public
places. (2) No. (3) It is generally the
practice to erect a clock-tower high enough
to be visible all over the town. The height,
however, must depend upon the space avail-
able for the base and the width of the street.
(4) Action would lie against the body in
whom the memorial is vested and respon-
sible for its maintenance in sound condition.
Is the tenant of a jshop and dwelling
entitled to compensation in the event of the
property being sold and the new owner giv-
ing the tenant notice to quit?— 2sls.
No, but legislation in that direction is
proposed during the present session of Par-
liament (N.S.W.).
Does Anybody Know ?
1955.—H0w to cure goat-skins by treat-
ment with an arsenic compound?
Information Supplied.
2074. —Vigorously scrubbing roofing-tiles
with a mxture of one part spirits of salts
to three parts of water will restore their
original red. Scrub off the dirt with soap
and water before starting with the solution.
“Rotom.”
2091. —To make a white finish for a swim-
ming bath, prepare a stiff lime putty by
mixing unslaked builders’ lime with sea
water. Stir into the putty sufficient boiled
linseed oil to bring it to the consistency
of spreadable paint. Apply to the walls and
floor of the bath with a kalsomine brush and
let the paint dry before admitting water. —
“Bung.”
Brief Answers.
Calcite: Ask Chief Inspector of Stock.
Perth Maxie: N 0 truth in it; just a snake
yarn.... J.M.: He is looking at his son’s portrait.
. ...J.H.J.O’R.: Sydney Technical College does not
piovide instruction, orally or by correspondence, of
a genei al educational nature such as is given in
secondary schools... .H.R.S.: Hardly worth while to
get them tanned, and there "would be no guarantee
of getting your own skins back. The price of leather
is: butts (best part of the hide), 2s. to 3s. per lb.;
bellies, Is. per lb. ; and shoulders, Is. 6d. per lb.
. ... A.C.: In Parliamentary practice the mover of
an amendment has no right of reply. Should an
amendment be moved to his amendment he would
be entitled to speak, but his remarks should be
stiictly confined to the amendment upon his amend-
ment •• • • Mrs. B.: Write to them yourself and address
to their respective numbers, care this office
E.L.P.: A Commonwealth law prohibits the importa-
tion of rabbits of any sort into Australia, and
until the law is rescinded no consideration will be
given to requests for permission to establish rabbit
farms in W.A H.T.E.: April 19, 1914 C.C.:
Section 103 of V.R.C. rules of racing says: “A horse
shall be deemed to be a starter and under the
starter s hands immediately upon the jockey or rider
of such horse being ordered by the starter to line
up at or behind the starting point” Tank: On
the facts as stated by you, you could return the
*- ar| k J.W.S.: (1) and (2) You cannot re-marry
without obtaining a divorce, if your wife is still
alive. If she is dead you should procure conclusive
evidence of the fact before re-marrying. (3) and
(4) If you supply the necessary names and facts to
the military authority in your State it may be
able to inform you... .W.H.G.: If the horse is'used
to maize, three quarts a day will not have any bad
effect on him, but a smaller amount given to a
horse not used to the grain might cause laminitis.
By gradually increasing the quantity given you can,
without danger, bring the daily maize ration up to
eight or ten pounds W.L.: Placer Development
Co., 612 Pacific Building, Hastings-street, West
Vancouver. Sydney Office, Wingello House, Angel-
place... .A.M.D.: Can’t say without inspection. Get
a vet. to have a look at the feed... .8.L.D.: On
the analysis given there is nothing to suggest that
the vvater would go stale Star of China: If he
puts in an application for an old-age pension, giving
particulars as to his arrival in Australia, the
Pensions Department will endeavor to prove his age.
Application for birth certificate could be made to
the Registrar-General’s Department, Somerset House,
London... .H.S.: Assuming that a total loss of index
finger has been suffered and that two full joints of
the second finger have been lost, the amount payable
under the N.S.W. Workers’ Compensation Act is
£l6O and £lOl ss. respectively. A claim should
be forwarded to the employer. Being a minor, the
money would be paid to the Workers’ Compensation
Commission and administered for claimant’s benefit
until he attains his majority... .R.M.: The co.
is supposed to be still in process of liquidation.
The last call on the £1 contribs. recorded was in
January, 1923, when Is. 6d. brought the total paid
up on these to 4s. 6d. Write the secretary, M. I.
Murchie, Bank-place, Melbourne J.G.A.: (1) The
A.M.P. has the most funds. (2) £ll. But that
amount is in effect reduced by bonuses. .. .Nemo;
Make a written demand; if it is refused, send
copy of your letter and the reply to the chie!
inspector, head office J.D. (W.A.) : (1) Yes; but
there are better things. (2) Yes. (8) Write
E. S. and R. C. Moulton, 8-14 Bond-street, Sydney.
... .G.S.: If damage is done to your property owing
to the alteration of levels, you can claim com-
pensation from the council, as prescribed in the
N. Local Government Act. The other matters
mentioned by you are not covered by statute law
W.D.T.: The spot where the Kookaburra was found
is approximately 1050 miles from Kookynie (W.A.).
The station at the railhead, Yilgarn district, is Bull-
finch, approximately 1240 miles from where the
Kookaburra was located... .F.M.: (1) You can sue
the owner in the Small Debts Court for damages up
to £lO. You would require to prove ownership
and the actual commission of the damage, and for
this witnesses would probably be needed. (2) The
Dividing Fences Act (N.S.W.) provides that an
adjoining landholder may be called on to assist in
equal proportion to repair the existing fences. You
should serve him with a notice to do so. Any
question as to the necessity or sufficiency of the
fence can be referred to arbitration... .A.R.L.: (1)
Not stocked here. You’ll have to order it from a
maker in U.S.A. (2) Presume you mean tourist
bureaus, Martin-place, Sydney; Ann and Edward
streets, Brisbane. (3) There is a Chair of Psychology
at Sydney Uni L.8.G.: Only one or two P. and
O. liners carry dispensers, and appointments are
usually made in England. Write to the Sydney agents
for the P. and O. line in Sydney.... L.McK.: Quite
agree with the doctor’s diagnosis and suggested
operative treatment... .A.E.G.: Birthmarks can be
greatly reduced, if not entirely removed, in some
cases, by the application of radium or carbonic-acid
snow. The ointment you mention is probably quite
suited to the present condition.... H. Pheltat: If it
was merely an application you signed, you can with-
draw it; if it was an agreement, they may hold
you to it. . . .A.Z.: (1) As matters stand, New
Guinea Goldfields, Ltd. (the Ellyou flotation), and
Placer Development. Both have intensively investi-
gated the ground to be worked and both have
people of high repute at the wheel. At the same
time, a lot of time and money must be spent before
investors can hope to see dividends. (2) The
apparent stabilisation of copper prices, together
with the fact that the former general manager of
the mine is one of the promoters of the new co.,
give cause for confidence. Industrial trouble, which
wrecked the old co., seems less likely under new
political conditions.... I. A.: It is advisable for the
trainee to enter a school before buying any b00k5....
P. : Detectives are selected from members of
the police force who have qualified by examination
and have displayed zeal and acumen in plain clothe-
duty... .Music: The third note is to be held till
the end of the bar. If your edition is fingered you
will see that this is provided for E.G.S.: The
law does not permit us to give information con-
cerning sweepstakes conducted outside N. S. Males.
R.H.: No special value... .W.F.H.: (1) For
wheat and stock farming, W.A. (2) There is no
such Federal tax... .I.McG.: W. Andrade, 173 Pitt-
street, Sydney X.1.X.: (1) The mother, and not
the father, of an illegitimate child is entitled to it-'
custody. (2) Refusal of the mother to marry the
father doesn’t affect a man’s liability for maintenance.
The amount is determined by the Court, having respec t
to the father’s means. (3) The Court exercises is
discretion, the usual periods being in the cake oi
a boy to the age of 14 years and of a girl to
years D.S.McG.: Caledonian Motor Body Builders
and Renovators, Ltd., Macquarie-street, Annandaie,
Sydney, may be able to help y0u...-G.S.: Continue
the present treatment and in addition apply o
foments to the part until the inflammatory con ltion
subsides. It is likely that after the inflammation is
under control the affected quarters may not unc 10,1
until calving. Should the treatment not be successful,
fatten the cow for the butcher.. . (Many other s mai •)


15he
English Steel Corporation
Limited
is considered desirable to issue a brief explanation of the manner in which the English Steel
Corporation, Ltd., came into existence. The names of VICKERS, LIMITED, SIR W. G.
ARMSTRONG-WHITWORTH & CO., LTD., and CAMMELL LAIRD & CO., LTD., are extremely
well known to the steel, engineering and all allied trades, and it is these three huge organisations
combined with certain other interests (including Taylor Bros., of Manchester) to form the new
Corporation.
The armaments, shipbuilding and steel interests of Vickers, Ltd., and Sir W. G. Armstrong-Whitworth and
Co., Ltd., were first amalgamated in the Company known as Vickers-Armstrongs, Limited, which too over
the Vickers Works at Barrow, Erith, Dartford and Sheffield, and the Armstrong-Whitworth Works and
Openshaw (Manchester), Elswick, and the Naval Yard at Newcastle-on-Tyne. This Company also took over
subsidiary Companies of these two firms, dealing with the above-mentioned products, such as The lhames
Ammunition Works, The Whitehead Torpedo Company and Vickers (Ireland), Ltd. The steel interests
which were so taken over were subsequently amalgamated with the corresponding steel interests of Cammell,
Laird & Co., Ltd., in the Company known as the English Steel Corporation, Limited, which took over from
Vickers-Armstrongs, Ltd., the former Vickers Works at Sheffield and the Armstrong-Whitworth Works at
Openshaw, and from Cammell Laird & Co., Ltd., the Cyclops and Grimesthorpe Works at Sheffield and the
Works at Penistone. This Company also took over the Drop Stamping Department at Elswick from Vickers-
Armstrongs, Ltd., and from Vickers, Limited, the Tyre and Axle business of Taylor Bros., of Manchester.
Thus, briefly, the English Steel Corporation comprises:—
VICKERS, LIMITED, SHEFFIELD.
SIR W. G. ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH & CO., LTD., OPENSHAW.
CAMMELL LAIRD & CO., LTD., SHEFFIELD AND PENISTONE.
TAYLOR BROTHERS, MANCHESTER.
PRODUCTS
It will be appreciated that the products of this organisation cover a very wide range, and for the information of those
interested the following brief list is quoted:—
Castings, heavy steel; castings, iron, all classes up to 120 tons; drills; drop forgings, stampings and machined crankshafts,
axles, etc., for motor-car and aero work; forgings, heavy, of all descriptions; golf club heads in rustless iron and mild steel;
files, hacksaw blades and bandsaws; ingots, blooms, billets and bars; carbon and alloy steel; manganese steel for dredgers,
mining and quarrying machinery; rustless steel and iron; special steels for drawgear and locomotive motion parts, springs,
laminated and coil; spring steel; steel alloys, special, heat-resisting, “Vikro,” “Hardot, Camloy, etc.; steel dies, chisels,
snaps and punches, also special S.R. cutters for boring, also special turning tools and holders; steel sheets high-grade
carbon and alloy steel; tool steels, all qualities, suitable for all classes of work; tools, small, of all descriptions; tubes, weldless
steel (up to 4 inches outside diameter in high-grade carbon and alloy steels) ; Vibrac steel, for all forgings. In addition
there are many other engineering products— too numerous to mention here.
AUSTRALIAN REPRESENTATION
The direct Representatives in Australia of the English Steel Corporation, Limited, are: VICKERS-ARMSTRONG.-
AUSTRALIA PROPRIETARY, LIMITED, of 19 O’Connell Street, Sydney, and 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The sole Australian Selling Organisation for the English Steel Corporation, Limited, for all the products listed above, is
WILLIAM ADAMS & COMPANY, LIMITED
who carry, at their various branches throughout Australia, comprehensive stocks of Steels, Drills, Files, Small Tools, etc.
Stocks in Queensland are carried by THE QUEENSLAND MACHINERY CO., LTD., of 142 Albert Street, Brisbane.
The importance of the English Steel Corporation, Ltd., to the British Empire, in peace time as well as in time of national
emergency, can readily be appreciated, and it is hoped that this fact, together with the wonderful reputation enjoyed by
their products, will inspire Australian consumers to afford the local selling agents every opportunity of quoting for their
requirements.
Further particulars available from the Sole Australian Selling Agents.
WILLIAM ADAMS € COMPANY
■ LI M ITEP
Co
which have
Sydney:
175 Clarence Street.
Melbourne:
521 Collins Street.
Perth:
432 Murray Street.
Adelaide:
157 Way mouth Street.
Brisbane:
93 Albert Street.


The
Weight
of your
Rabbit
Skins
may total lb., cwts. or
tons, but the largest cheque
possible is wanted, what-
ever the quantity may be.
Send your Rabbit, Fox and
other skins to
r<m
(fr
WINGHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD
and secure it. They have one service for all clients
—the best. And their capable work as salesmen
constantly produces top values, accurate and prompt
returns. Offices:
WINCHCOMBE HOUSE
BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY.
and
99-101 EAGLE ST.
BRISBANE.
V*. . .
WOOL SALES.
“Good Competition, but faulty wools still
irregular and difficult of sale.”
—S. M. Herald, 17/9129.
With the wool position as it is to-day, it is
imperative that sheep be kept in as good
condition as possible to enable them to grow
high-quality wool.
It has been proved by many Graziers that this can be done by the
constant use of
VITA-LICK.
VITA-LICK, LIMITED,
STOCK LICK SPECIALISTS,
107 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
MORE PRIZES FOR FARMERS.
In order to encourage farmers to pass
on to others the fruits of their observa-
tion and experience, “The Bulletin” will
give three prizes for the most helpful
contributions during the six months to
Dec. 31 next.
Points will he awarded for every con-
tribution submitted, if thought worthy and
whether printed or not, and two prizes—
the first of £25 and the second of £lo—
be given to the winners of most
points.
A special prize of £5 will be given for
the best individual contribution.
Only contributions that are of practical
value to men on the land are asked for;
literary merit is not taken into account, so
long as the meaning is expressed plainly.
The prizes are in addition to the ordi-
nary payments made for all “Bulletin”
contributions.
+
PICKLING WHEAT.
“Yeoman”: “Hortus” (B. 11/9/’29/ ad-
vises farmers who have trouble with non-
germinating seed after pickling in bluestone
to dip the seed in, lime-water. But why not
pickle dry with copper carbonate dust?
Bluestone (copper sulphate) solution could
always be relied upon to destroy about 40
p.c. of the seed, and delay the germination
of the grains that survived the immersion.
Subsequent dipping in limewater probably
improves the germination; but the extra
trouble involved in two immersions, and the
subsequent discomfort from lime-dust, places
that method out of court.
Seed-pickling tests carried out at Rose-
worthy Agricultural College (S.A.) several
years ago are instructive. In a laboratory
experiment of “dry”- and “wet”-pickling to
ascertain the time and percentage of "ger-
mination the results were :
Percentage Germinated.
4 Days. 8 Days. 12 Days. 16 Days.
Dry .. .. 96 p.c. 100 p.c. —-
Wet .. .. 26 ~ 44 ~ 64 p.c. 68 p.c.
In the laboratory the conditions are favor-
able for germination, but 32 p.c. of the seed
pickled in the 1 p.c. solution of bluestone
failed to germinate at the end of 16 days,
whereas 96 p.c. of the “dry” pickled seed
germinated in four days, and the balance
within eight days.
In the field-plots the principal results
were as follows :
Percentage Germinated.
14 21 28 35
Dry. Days. Days. Days. Days.
2oz. Cop. Carbonate 88 p.c. 90 p.c. 91 p.c. 91 p.c.
lloz. Cop. Carb. ) gg 90 90 90
4oz. Calc. Sulph. ) ” ” ”
Wet.
1 p.c. Cop. Sulph. 19 „ 31 ~ 49 „ 53 ~
2oZ. Cop. Sulph... 5 ~ 12 ~ 24 ~ 33 ~
ioZ. Formalin . . 79 ~ 84 „ 85 ~ 87 ~
jjoz. Formalin . . 75 ~ 81 „ 84 ~ 85 „
Untreated . . 87 „ 88 ~ 89 ~ 89 „
The “dry”-pickled seed thus actually
showed a better germination than the un-
treated. The results of the seed pickled with
1 p.c. bluestone (lib. bluestone to lOgal. of
water) would surprise most farmers who
used that method for so many years. The
germination from formalin-treated seed is
fairly good, but the seed must be sown at
once in moist soil, otherwise the grain will
harden and there will be disappointment.
The yield is the final arbiter in the mat-
ter, and the following figures will give the
old users of bluestone a cold feeling down
the spine. Every grain was impregnated
with bunt spores, and the results were: —
Yield Bunt-
Germi- per Acre, Affected
Dry. nation. Bus. lb. Plants.
2oz. Copper Carbonate 87 p.c. 27 25 1.44 p.c.
Wet.
1 p.c. Cop. Sulphate.. 54 „ 18 48
i p.c. Formalin 87 ~ 24 26
Untreated . . . . 85 ~ 26 88 34.00 ~
“Dry”-pickling with 2oz. copper carbon-
ate per bushel gave a yield of nearly nine
bushels more than that of the plot where
the seed was pickled in a 1 p.c. bluestoae
solution, and three bushels better than the
formalin-treated seed. That difference is of
tremendous importance to wheat-growers. It
is sufficient to make all the difference
between profit and loss.
The percentage of smut-affected plants in
the “dry”-pickling plot is negligible when
the fact is taken into consideration that
every grain was impregnated with bunt
before treatment. Actually a smutty head
in a “dry”-pickled crop is hard to find.
Apart from the superior germination
assured, and the still more important bet-
ter yield, the great advantage of “dry”-pick-
ling is that it can be carried out months
before seeding without harmful effects on
the seed. That cannot be done with either
bluestone or formalin.
Why, then, use lime-water as a neutralis-
ing agent of the injurious effects of blue-
stone when “dry”-pickling with copper car-
bonate dust is so much better in every way?
MANURE FROM VARIOUS FEEDS.
“Jack Point”: A point to consider when
buying stock-food is the manurial value after
it has passed through the animals to which
it is fed. Feeds vary immensely in this
respect. Popular concentrates possess the
following fertilising constituents per 10001 b.:
Phosphoric
Nitrogen, Acid, Potash,
lb. lb. lb.
Bran . . . . 25.6 29.5 16.2
Pollard . . . . 27.7 21.1 11.8
Cotton-seed meal. . 70.6 26.7 18.1
Linseed meal .. 59.0 17.7 13.0
Molasses . . . . 5.0 2.4 31.6
Oats . . . . 19.8 8.1 5.6
Rice . . . . 12.2 4.9 2.6
Soya beans . . 58.4 13.7 24.7
Wheat . . . . 19.8 8.6 5.3
Soya beans are included not because they
are in common use, by any means, but to
illustrate that, as recommended by recent
Land Page writers, they should he.
The table shows what a great proposition
cotton-seed meal is to the man who has an
eye on the future with a view to getting
the best possible value for his money when
buying feed. Cotton-seed meal is available
in Queensland at about £lO per ton, whilst
bran and pollard are not in that State often
below £8 and £8 10s. respectively.
TOO MANY VARIETIES.
“Curlew”: There is a fever amongst plant-
breeders to produce new varieties, and, of
course, every new one is advertised as having
merits hitherto unknown. And many of
them actually have new qualities. In
apples, for instance, there are hundreds of
varieties, most of them having something
exceptional in coloring, quality, productive-
ness or lesser liability to disease. But the
best all-round varieties don’t run beyond a
dozen.
That, too, holds good of wheats. In Vic-
toria not less than 150 varieties are being
grown. Yearly, Mr. Pye (Dookie) is produc-
ing a great number of new varieties, the
most promising of which are tested by
farmers. I have myself a little collection
of these creations and they are a diversified
and variable lot. Only about a dozen can
be considered commercial successes —-and
commercial success is what we farmers want.
The following have been recommended by
the Department of Agriculture:—
Wimmera: Federation, Free Gallipoli, Nizam.
Central Mallee: Rajah and Mac’s White (early) ;
Ranee, Sepoy, Free Gallipoli, Currawa (mid season) ;
Yandilla King (late).
New Mallee (shooty country) : Tall varieties, as
Mac’s White, Yandilla King and Ranee.
Southern Mallee: Federation, Free Gallipoli, Ranee
and Sepoy.
Northern districts: Federation, Free Gallipoli, Major
and Nizam. (Major particularly suitable for the
Goulburn Valley and Nizam north of Numurkah.)
In the Western district nothing has proved
more satisfactory than Turvey; and gener-
ally no new or comparatively new wheat
has had such rapid success as Free Gallipoli.
THE ,CONTROL OF WEEDS.
“Hatter”: It is evident that weeds rob
crops of food, moisture and sunlight, but
even when these are sufficiently supplied for
both crop and weeds, the influence of the
latter is still harmful. They interfere with
the root development of cultivated plants,
and possibly also some weed-roots give off
poisonous gases.
Crop rotation helps considerably to keep
weeds down. If land is planted to wheat
year after year, certain weeds have the
opportunity to mature their seeds and be-
come firmly established. But when wheat
is grown in turn with a cultivated crop and
a forage crop, the weeds are obviously handi-
capped. Similarly, pastures that have be-
come infested should be sown down to a
crop requiring tillage, and if this is fol-
lowed by a small grain crop, the weeds
should disappear.
The three great Don’ts of weed-control
are: (1) Don’t let them seed; (2) Don’t
introduce new seeds; and (3) Don’t let
perennial plants make top growth. A culti-
vated crop, well handled, gives plenty of
opportunity for destroying weeds, but unless
the cultivation is thorough they are actually
encouraged to prolific seeding. Such weeds
as sow thistles mature 20,000 seeds or more
to the plant. Mowing the pastures once or
twice a year when the weeds are in full
bloom will help to drive them out and im-
prove the grass. Headlands should also be
regularly cut. Sheep can be employed to
clean up stubbles, and are more useful there
than horses or cattle.
Weeds are frequently introduced through
buying inferior grass- or clover-seed; through
hay, straw or manure purchased from other
farms; and from the threshing outfit, which
should be carefully swept out. To some
extent these channels may all be controlled,
but the farmer must still remain at the
mercy of the wind.
Perennials are naturally more difficult to
eradicate than annuals. Bare fallowing from
mid-summer onwards will attack them at the
most susceptible time, and if top-growth be
prevented during the remainder of the season
many will die out. Usually, shallow plough-
ing is best, as this keeps the mass of roots
on or near the surface. If the fallowing is
followed by a small grain crop in the spring,
any weeds that still persist should then be
finally destroyed.
ROTATION IN RICE-GROWING.
“Gazer” : The last two seasons have been
extremely favorable to the handling of the
crop on the Murrumbidgee area, but with
the return of normally wet seasons there
will be more difficulties in the way. A: care-
ful rotation of crops will have to be carried
out, as under running-water irrigation rice-
fields get very dirty, which renders much
of the crop unmarketable. This year dirty
rice has been disposed of profitably as stock-
fodder, on account of the droughty conditions
obtaining in the Riverina and Western dis-
tricts; but drought occurs only occasionally,
and it doesn’t pay to hold over poor rice very
long.
As for the clean rice, we shall have to
seek a larger market than is in sight, even
if we don’t multiply our output.
SKIN PIECES.
A Continental (European) wool-buyer
tells the Land Page that this year he has
again noted “skin pieces” in wool; and he
thinks the attention of growers ought to be
turned to the seriousness of it.
The matter was mentioned some months
ago by R. C. Wilson in some notes on a
tour of European wool-buying centres pub-
lished by the Graziers’ Co-op. Shearing Co.
“Skin pieces,” he wrote, “are causing some
trouble in burry lambs’ wool. It is difficult
to pick the skin pieces out, but if they go
through the carbonising process the skin
breaks up and a small particle remains on
the end of each fibre of wool. When made
into cloth each of these particles of skin
spreads in the finishing process and spoils the
cloth. On looking through hurry lambs’
wool in Bradford and Roubaix I was sur-
prised at the number of skin pieces I saw.
Whilst this is primarily a shearing fault and
should be checked at once, I think classers
should see that all pieces of skin are picked
out as the lambs’ wool goes over the table.
It would not be difficult to do it then, as
usually it is hard to find work for all the
shedhands whilst lambs are being shorn. In
Roubaix it was suggested that if this was
done the bales should be branded ‘Skin
pieces removed.’ ”
TO STRETCH WIRE-NETTING.
“Bill R.”: To stretch wire-netting pre-
paratory to rabbit-proofing a fence, fasten
a stout wooden frame to the bed of a cart.
From the rear extend two 4in. x 4in. spars,
each with a clevis firmly bolted to its end,
and so spaced that a wire-netting roll may
be placed between them.
With a length of iron-piping or a crowbar
through its centre, suspend the netting in
the clevises. Fasten its loose end to the
ground with wooden pegs, and drive on.
The roll will unwind without kinks as
fast as the horse walks; and thus with a
minimum of trouble and labor it may be
rigidly spread in readiness for attachment
to the fence.
DUAL-PURPOSE CATTLE.
“Red Poll”: I can’t agree with “Square-
mile” (B. 4/9/’29) in his condemnation of
dual-purpose cattle. The trend of modern
dairying is towards milking small, heavily-
culled herds and hand-feeding them to the
limit of their large capacity. If we can
choose a breed which holds its own in milk
and butter production while returning us a
profit on the sale of culls, and if this breed
produces steers which mature early and
fatten readily, thus enabling us to turn part
of our farm to profitable account without
adding to our drudgery, we are not likely to
be deterred by “Squaremile’s” criticism.
It is true that pigs can be more profitable
than calf-rearing if the pigs are bred right
(which means spending money on good
stock), fed right (money and labor for bal-
ancing meals and grains) and housed right
(more money and more labor) ; but all this
means adding another business and a lot
of drudgery to the existing business of dairy-
ing, whereas the calves can be bred and fed
and handled in the ordinary routine of dairy-
ing with no additional expense.
GET OUT YOUR BORDEAUX MIX-
TURE.
“P. Aiteh”: Now is the time to spray
for shot-hole (leaf-spot), and as the lime-
sulphur spray is not advisable in the case
of apricot-trees, Bordeaux mixture should be
used.
Freshly prepared on any of the “alkaline”
formulae, Bordeaux is one of the most effi-
cacious plant sprays. The nice flocculetit
blue precipitate of basis sulphate of copper
suspends well in water, gives a good “spread.”
adheres well to wood and foliage, and, pro-
viding the agitator is kept in motion, the
spray-nozzle does not choke.
Growers should beware of green powders,
for these may be basic copper carbonates, un-
suitable for the purpose. The fungicidal
action of Bordeaux mixture is due to the
slow formation of basic copper carbonate by
the action of the carbonic-acid gas of the
atmosphere, whereby a small amount of cop-
per sulphate is being continually liberated
to perform its work as a deadly fungicide.
In the case of the green carbonate powders,
this action does not take place, and the
efficiency is greatly impaired.
In making Bordeaux mixture, the best
formula to use is the 6-4-40., i.e., 61b. of
bluestone, 41b. of “fat” lime, 40gal. of water.
The essential precautions to be taken in
the preparation are :
(a) Use wooden or earthenware vessels.
(b) The lime must be the purest obtainable.
(c) Add a strong solution of the copper sulphate
to the milk of lime (lime in water).
(d) Use rain or some similar soft water.
(e) Use the preparation as soon as it is prepared.
(f) Make sure there is no uncombined copper
sulphate in the mixture —this is not likely if the
formula is adhered to. The best test is to immerse
the polished blade of a penknife, when a deposit of
copper will form if any uncombined copper sulphate
is present.
THE GROWING FRUIT CROP.
“XSA”: Another heavy crop of stone and
pome fruits is anticipated this year. Owing
tc more trees having reached maturity the
total may be a record. Improvements in cul-
tural methods and types have lessened the
average of inferior fruits. Everything points
to the jieeessity for thinning out the crops.
The rainfall has not yet been sufficient in
most places to fill out the fruits, and smaller
grades will therefore be a drug on the market.
It must always be remembered that a sur-
feit of mediocre fruit drags down, the
prices for higher classes. In fact, it is in-
ferior fruits which at all times create gluts.
Thinning out should not be attempted
until the second shedding of the crop. This
generally happens as the pits commence to
harden. Taken in conjunction with the first
summer pruning, the work can thus serve
a double purpose. It must, however, be
remembered in connection with this pruning
that sufficient shade must be left to cover
the fruit allowed to hang.
All misshapen and freak fruits can at any
time be discarded. Fruit nearest the limbs
should remain, and the trees generally not
only eased but balanced. If done with due
regard for tree capacity, this should entirely
prevent any overloading of limbs and con-
sequent breakings. It is also advisable to
allow for wind and rain, the latter adding
considerable weight at times —very often just
enough to cause a limb to break down.
When thinning out the crop look also to
the spurs, but leave at least twice as many as
will be needed for fruiting wood next year.
Take care to leave these well balanced also,
and nip back all water shoots and suckers
which make such rapid growth if permitted.
The latter drain the tree of much stamina,
and this is required to bring the crop along
in the best style.
Pits of peaches vary little in size in both
small and large fruits, and as they require
the hulk of the fruit-producing food, it is
easily seen how the whole crop is adversely
affected when inferior stuff is allowed to
remain. Leave only one shoot at the top of
each leader and nip it off when unduly long.
This will help to build a sturdy frame, the
ideal of every grower of fruits.
Few varieties of apples require such atten-
tion. Commercial growers of these fruits
work more or less on definite lines according
to type and season. Their trees have to face
rigors of climate unknown to the sub-tropical
varieties. They also are able to keep their
fruits for long periods, and thus can wait
for improved markets. It is not advisable
to attempt summer pruning with apple and
other pome fruit trees along general lines
excepting when they are quite young. The
operation then assists in formation and helps
towards sturdiness.
(Continued on page 32.)


WITH WOOL DOWN
and the Wheat Crop Light
A Continuation of Sound,
Stable Government is
the Country’s Greatest Need
For SEVEN YEARS
the Men and Women on the Land and in the
Country Towns have been in the forefront of
Federal policy.
The Bruce-Page Government—
Has reduced land and income taxation,
Reduced Australia’s war debt,
Established rural credits for the mar-
keting of primary produce,
Simplified relations between Common-
wealth and States,
Enormously developed postal and tele-
phone facilities in the country
districts.
No previous Government has fostered
practical decentralisation to so
great a degree.
The Country Party
**gt
DR. EARLE PAGE,
Commonwealth Treasurer.
Was Brought into Being
to lift the primary industries and
the country districts out of the
slough of neglect in which they
had lain.
As a result of this movement the
country is now coming into its
own, and is taking a foremost
place in national affairs. It has
carried railways and roads across
State borders. It has fought to
secure for rural industries and
residents educational, social and
business opportunities equal to
those possessed by the city, and
its endeavors have been marked
by phenomenal success.
OUR LIVING COMES FROM THE SOIL
The Soil Should Be Our First Care.
FOR THE FUTURE OF AUSTRALIA
This Government Host Be Maintained
AS TO HUGHES-
Less than a year ago the policy of the
Government was approved by the people.
A mandate was given to do what was best
to secure industrial peace.
Parliament a few weeks ago approved of the
Government’s exercise of that mandate by
passing the second reading of the Arbitra-
tion Bill providing the transfer of its powers
to the States, thus to create a single indus-
trial authority and eliminate conflict and
unnecessary waste.
The Labor-Hughes Group dared to dispute
the mandate of the People by making the
bill a pawn in the political game for power.
Let the people deal with them.
As Nationalist Prime Minister, Hughes sought
to rid Australia of the present industrial
position, saying it was “most inefficient” and
“hopelessly futile.” (See Budget Speech,
1919-20.) He now opposes the move to rid
Australia of its entanglements. He has
reverted to type to catch the votes of his
former friends in the Labor party.
Know Your Enemies.
The Alternative —
LABOR IMMEDIATELY TAXES PRIMARY
INDUSTRIES.
LABOR CATERS FOR THE CITIES, WHERE
ITS VOTING STRENGTH LIES.
LABOR TAXES INDUSTRY.
LABOR GOVERNMENTS MUST NECESSARILY
BE EXTRAVAGANT (with your money)
TO PLACATE SUPPORTERS.
LABOR RULE MEANS DEARER LIVING—IT
HITS THE WORKING MAN.
REMEMBER, TOO:
Theodore’s Reckless Record before he out-
lived his welcome in Queensland, and his
recent fraternising with the “Reds” of
Australian Labor.
ON OCTOBER 12, VOTE FOR THE
BRUCE-PAGE Candidates
Authorised by E. J. Munro, 25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.


,\
. ,
■
:;
' „'•• i, f ■' ''> - K v
(M-HPMM! '■ i; ■ &P‘ v * ■ *
SKfflt
■
m
d£U
■
v
■
i*i
(I
mm i
:
y#... mmmmm
m
Mi
■liil
■
1
■
■
.
2
\
* ■
.
■ i 9 * •
• V.
®liir
1 i
? Til ]
45
■■■•
r
am®
«, 4H
i r
._ I
a
m
:. ■ >:
fel
into
inqs B
the
L(
Brisbane: More!
Melbourne: Sou f r
i
WARRAtf
GENI
BRISBANE
e


Ho Car Advantages
iw Priced Field
mmm
■
-S
' " & ' y*tt p ••/ -- •!
<&&'.
11l
ojil
SlkJl
■Hi
THE Great Pontiac was designed for people who are
progressive and who appreciate the finer things in
life. It was planned to make it possible for them to step
up the quality of their cars without stepping out of the
low-priced field.
In appearance, for example, it offers the smart style, the
graceful proportions and the perfection of detail which in
the past only big cars have provided. Its fenders are
flaring and sweeping. Its lines are long and low. Inside
its staunchly constructed body more big car characteristics
meet the eye.
Mechanically, it provides such big car features as a big L-head engine,
the Harmonic Balancer, which counteracts crankshaft vibration, the
G-M-R cylinder head, which minimises thumping, and spark knock.,
accurately balanced rotating parts and noiseless, protected, internal four-
wheel brakes. It is fast, powerful, quick to accelerate . . . smooth,
silent, and easy to control.
It is obvious from this description that the Great Pontiac is an
vation in the low-priced field. It had to be to give the people for
whom it was created what they were searching for in a motor car,
Metropolitan Distributors.
* Motors Pty, Ltd., Adelaide Street. Sydney: John McGrath, Ltd., 154 Castlereagh Street.
;:rn Motors Pty., Ltd., 131-37 Lonsdale Street. Adelaide: Millingen’s, Ltd., 95 Waymouth Street.
I* Perth: Skipper Bailey Motor Co., Ltd. (Milligan Street Division), Milligan Street.
PRICES from £285
Convenient Payments may be arranged on the liberal G.M.A.C. Terms Plan.
PRICES GIVEN SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE
ONE YEAR i : z • BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER
MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
> FOR
AL
EAT PONTIAC


For everyday wear
A pliant Abbey Shoe with comfort-
able, rounded toe and an upper that
lies in an easy-fitting curve over the
instep arch. No tightness. . . .and the
lacing draws evenly without strain.
The low-cut sides of this shoe fit
snugly at ankle. Its sole of top-grade
leather has a medium welt.
ORDER BY POST.—Medium and
wide fittings can be had in both full
and half sizes. Order, also, a supply
of Abbey Preservative Polish (6d. per
tin).
BLACK BOX CALF . . . 39/6
TAN WILLOW CALF . . 39/6
Enlarged catalogue of men’s and women’s
footwear post free.
ABBEY
(Established over 80 years),
313 George Street, and 224 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
Telegraphic Address: “Abbey Boots,” Sydney.
FPL 144
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
-r ■
IST?
I
IPtilglfg
BRITISH
MADE
Perfection
PITSKI RUBBER.
For Sale.
2000 BOOKS £25 to 6d. EACH
JVfIANY old and rare editions interestingly
catalogued in List 15, post free from the
SIGN OF THE HUNTSMAN,
Soutliborough, Nr. Tunbridge Wells,
Kent, England.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tialia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins .. . 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
POST FI!HE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
THE
SHAVE
ORCHARD
PLOUGH
is similar in all respects to the
Standard Shave Plough, but with
the discs close up to facilitate
ploughing close to the trees and
with a pivot pole to enable
plough to be pulled close in if
branches are too low to allow
passage of horses.
For full particulars apply to the
manufacturers or any agent.
Inter-State and Overseas Agents:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd.
Miller’s Point, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
W. Y. Scrutton,
34 North Terrace West, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND:
Clark & Fauset,
Eagle Street, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
H. J. Wigmore, Ltd.,
Wellington Street, Perth.
TASMANIA:
W. Hart & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
Charles Street, Launceston.
J. H. Stutterd,
Wynyard.
H. G. Buchanan,
10 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND:
M. Steinberg,
Box 893, Wellington.
. SOUTH AFRICA:
Mangold Bros., Ltd.,
Port Elizabeth.
Manufactured by
D.gW. CHANDLER LTD.
Brunswick Street,
FITZROY,
VICTORIA.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
PAY AS YOU GO BY CHEQUE ~
WJf' ?
1. It eliminates unwise spending.
2. It saves time and many steps in settling bills.
3. It gives prestige to your transactions.
4. It instils respect through your association with a reputable bank.
At this Bank you are allowed Interest on your
minimum quarterly balance.
liters £>ank_of3l usfralia %
HEAD OFFICE. 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
What is the average net return to the
N.Z. farmer per lb. of butter? —2503.
Can’t say what the net return is—there
are no statistics. The Dominion average
production per cow la t year was 2191 b. of
butter-fat, and the price paid for it by fac-
tories was from Is. 9d. to Is. lid. per lb.
(1) Is much boring for water being done
in Australia? (2) Type and size of machine
usually used? (3) Approximate cost of
machine, and capacity? (4) Average depth
of borehole where water is struck? (5) Cost
per foot for boring? —l63l.
(1) In N.S.W. a considerable amount of
boring is being carried out for sub-artesian
water. In Q’land there are many more
artesian bores than in N.S.W. The N.S.W.
Water Commission has 36 plants in opera-
tion, besides which there are many private
contractors. (2) Varies according to depth
required. Percussion type is used for sub-
artesian boring. (3) Question too vague.
Any manufacturer or importer of boring
machinery will supply list and prices. (4)
Average depth of artesian bores 1650 ft.;
deepest 4338 ft; average depth of sub-artesian
bores, 270 ft.; deepest, 1634 ft. (N.S.W.
Water Commission’s records only.) (5) The
average cost per foot of sub-artesian bores
sunk by the Commission’s plants is 15s. 7d.,
including casing, etc.
How to eradicate sarsaparilla weed in
IF.A. ? —2052.
Leave the land affected unfallowed and
allow the plant to grow without cultivation
through the summer until the beginning of
autumn, when the land should be ploughed
thoroughly and immediately planted with
wheat or oats. Another effective method is
to cart straw on to the patches and burn
it prior to ploughing for the crop.
At a meeting of shareholders of a co-
operative bacon factory a motion was put
and carried that any shareholder selling to
an outside buyer should be fined £1 per
pig. Would it be 1ega1? —2376.
A breach wouldn’t constitute an offence
against the law, if that's what you mean.
ITow or whether it could be enforced depends
upon the terms of the articles of agreement.
In preparing tomato-seed for market —(l)
At what stage should the fruit be picked?
(2) What is the best way to proceed? (3)
Any publications on the subject? —2269.
(1) Tomatoes must be thoroughly ripe.
(2) Cut the tomatoes around the circum-
ference and scoop seeds out with a spoon
or suitable instrument. Then carefully
spread out and dry the seeds in shaded open
air. (3) Don’t know of any.
I am conducting a market-garden with the
help of my four ' children. I pay them no
wage. How would I go about forming the
business into a company with the children,
myself and wife as shareholders, and what
would it cost?— 24ll.
Company formation is an elaborate and
expensive business. Probably a partnership
agreement, which should ne prepared by a
solicitor, would meet your requirement.
There is no fixed cost, but it would not
be great if terms were simple.
Means of combating fruit-fly in peach-crop?
—2383.
At least once a week pick up and destroy
all windfall and waste or infested fruit and
boil or burn to destroy maggots and prevent
the rapid increase of the tly. Boil about
51b. waste peaches in a gallon of water and
strain. Use this gallon of syrup and to it
add 3gal. of water in which 41b. of treacle
or molasses has been dissolved, and then
mix with this soz. arsenate of lead powder.
Apply only about 4 fluid oz. to a patch of
foliage on each side of each peach-tree (Boz.
per tree) once a week for five weeks before
the fruit becomes ripe. This attracts and
poisons the adult flies.
Is it injurious to citrus trees to paint them
with distilled tar? —2469.
Yes. It will seriously injure the bark. It
is occasionally used to coat large cuts on
trees made during pruning operations, but
great care should be exercised to prevent
any of the liquid running down into the bark.
Can the members of a Queensland maize
pool board, who arc elected for one year,
legally contract to sell a portion of the crop
for the ensuing five years without consulting
the maize-growers? —2344.
All Queensland pools are constituted for
a given period, one, three, five or ten years,
as the case may be. The personnel of a
board may change during the period for
which the pool is established, but the pool
as such has power to contract for the entire
period of its tenure.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Chocky” : Old rusted iron too thin to carry
water will do for many a day, especially for
walls, if given two or three coatings of hot
tar.
“Hensfruit”: For a circular saw there is
no better cover about the farm than an old
motor-tyre. Cut across one side and slip
over the saw.
“Claude”: If a hen begins dropping her
eggs about, often shell-less, and moves con-
tinually, shut her alone in a pen with a
nest in the corner. Provide her with plenty
of soft foods and place a little bi-carbon-
ate of soda in the drinking-water.
“Silentio”: Collect a bunch of your odd
jobs for the local blacksmith if you don c
do tlfem yourself. The last lot cost me five
bob, whereas if taken singly they would at
his usual rates have run into nine shillings.
“Specker”: Peas that are fertilised with
a manure rich in phosphates are less liable
to be affected by root-rot. They are, how-
ever, easily damaged by direct contact with
super., and it is a good plan to broadcast
it before the peas are planted.
“Claude W.”: In cases of pneumonia
among chicks—a bronchial cough accom-
panied with difficult breathing and gasping—-
often caused by emerging from the heated
“foster-mother” into the air outside, rub
turpentine into the feathers under the shoul-
ders, and, of course, place the invalids in
the warmth, and feed on milk and bread.
Occasionally give a dose of a little anti-
moniac wine from a teaspoon.
“W.A.T.” (Hicks Island, via Thursday
Island) : To rid your citrus trees of aphis and
all sap-sucking pests and promote a luxuri-
ant growth, use a spray of one quart shark
oil to one kerosene-tin water. Emulsify with
spray-pump. I have tried all sorts of pre-
parations, but nothing comes up to the
above.
“Burren”: For worms in pigs use sato-
nine, Sgrs.; calomel, 2grs.; bi-carbonate of
soda, 1 drachm : areca nut-powder, 2 drachms.
This quantitv provides a dose for a 1001 b.
pig. It is best given in skim-milk and pol-
lard, and should be followed in 24 hours
by a wineglassful of castor oil.
“Hortus”: Don’t put lucerne in a silo,
no matter what the type. Instead of
making the silage richer, as some think, the
lucerne, during the fermentation process,
loses its nutritious value, for its nitrogen-
content almost disappears. Lucerne hay is
more profitable.
- “Bushman”: If it’s pumpkins you are
looking for that will eat and keep well, try
Queensland blues and the pawpaw pump-
kin. The blue is of medium size and a
good marketer, whilst the latter resembles
his namesake, is prolific and dry and sweet,
but- perhaps not as good for sale. They both
stand dry weather.
“Big Twin” : To hold cows’ tails while in
the hails fashion a piece of stout hoop-iron
the same shape as a coal tongs. Tie the
bow end to a piece of light rope and secure
the other end of rope just behind the cow.
When the cow enters the bail and is secured,
spring the tongs-end on to her tail and the
tail nuisance is overcome.
“Specker” : The ash of black-wattle wood
contains a large proportion of potash and
carbonate of lime, which renders it very
suitable for application to sour soils. One
hundred pounds of wattle ash yields roughly
the equivalent of 301 b. muriate of potash and
20 to 30 per cent. lime. The contents vary
with the age. Young trees and branches are
the richest in potash and mature wood
contains more lime.
“C.H.P.”: When the dog gets mange mix
about lib. each of lime and sulphur with
enough water to make a paste, and add it
to two gallons of soft water. Put it on to
boil, and stir occasionally. When boiling,
let it simmer for 20 minutes; then remove
and allow to cool and settle. Pour off the
clear liquid free from sediment. Clip the hair
if it is long, then well wash the dog with
the mixture. It is also good in mild cases
of mange in horses.
“Bushman”: After having planted arti-
chokes for many years, I’ve found that it
pays to plant smooth tubers, free from
wrinkles. That’s if you aim to market them ;
for pigs and stock, it does not matter. Fairly
shallow sowing and earthing-up, potato fash-
ion, means bigger yields and better keepers.
Five cwt. of seed per acre, and a yield of
anything up to seven tons may be dug. Then
you’ll leave enough seed in the soil to do
the paddock for next year’s growth or to
let the pigs in on.
“Jack Point”: Separate the pullets from
the cockerels just as soon as you can dis-
tinguish them. If not sending the cockerels
to market at once, put them where they
can get plenty of exercise and work for
their tucker. When they are three or four
months old, cut off their combs and wattles,
and they will show much better growth. This
can be done with a pair of scissors, apply-
ing something that will stop the bleeding.
Dubbed birds will show much better growth
than those not so treated.
“Ino”: Years ago I shifted a peach-tree
in full blossom, and took it three miles and
re-planted it. It never showed the slightest
ill-effects, and bore half a case of splendid
peaches from the blossoms that were on it.
Since then I have had a hand in success-
fully shifting many trees —all done between
10 at night and three in the morning. I
believe this time is infinitely the best.
“Dring”: To make axle-grease, the best
black lead should be finely powdered and
sifted so as to free it from dirt. Then add
it through a sieve, to five times the weight
of good lard, rendered semi-fluid by gentle
heating. Steady stirring of the mixture is
necessary until it becomes smooth and uni-
form. Raise the heat gradually until the
mixture becomes liquid, and then remove to
a cool place and continue stirring until it
is quite cold.
“Hensfruit”: When planting lucerne see
that the soil is worked down to a very fine
tilth. Then make sure there are no hollows,
for wherever water lodges the lucerne
will die. Having sown the seed don’t
harrow it in the same way as you would
oats or barley; if you do it will be too deep
and will come up patchy. To cover it I
find it best in my soil to turn the harrows
upside down.
“Codring” : Test your separator occasion-
ally, as well as the milk. Although simple
in construction, the separator is quite cap-
able of going wrong, and if it do»s it
may mean a big loss. A Babcock outfit is
always available at the butter-factory if a
neighbor has not got one, and it is a simple
matter to have the skim-milk tested fre-
quently. The fault, if any, may be with
the operator or with the adjustment of the
machine; the cream screw may not be set
properly. At worst a new machine may be
necessary, and if it ends a serious loss it
will soon pay for itself.
“Bill R.”: When the posts of an old
fence arc to be removed, lift them by lever-
age, and avoid a lot of unnecessary digging.
Into the doubled end of a trace chain hitched
low round the post, place the end of a long
stout pole. For fulcrum use a 2ft. length of
rail, close up. Almost any post may thus
be pulled without previous loosening. On
those that still refuse to come, use a roller.
Bring the doubled chain attached to the
post over and under a stout round billet
lying horizontally by the post. Lift the lever
upright and place its end in the double of
the chain. Pull backward over the roller,
and you’ll lift either the post or the continent.
“Red Poll”: Despite “ Jinbiggaree” (B.
28/8/ 29), topping and tailing maize will con-
tinue to be practised. The grains at the
thin end are smaller, while those at the top
are larger than the average, besides being
irregular in shape, and this variation
seriously affects the evenness of planting,
which is essential to successful maize grow-
ing. In one very popular make of machine
the large grains gradually accumulate' at
the bottom of the hoppers until they block
sowing altogether. Moreover, the graiiis from
the top of the cob are said not to produce
cobs true to sort, while those from the thin
end produce too many weak plants.


von
I»V\ NO
MORE
Ol*
Yi*.
r
n ki> '-iiibis
Made in Australia,
than lor any other make
Remember this when you buy a
tyre. Remember, that in both
tread and tyre body.... the two
main parts of a tyre.... the
superiority of Goodyear Tyres
can be demonstrated, and is proved
by the fact that more people, the
world over, ride on Goodyear
Tyres than on any other make.
And remember, always, that
Goodyear Tyres and Tubes, made
in Australia, cost no more than
any other make.
ASK YOUR GOODYIAR DIAIfR lORA DtMONSTRATION ON HIS SUPIRIWISI CORD MA€HINE-


F=
E AUSTRALIA
ir*:
LI.
-JlvSf
r
(X
UfTRA
l . JWIi
$
“THE AUSTRALIA”
is not a hotel but the hotel. Its guests
have the real satisfaction of being in the
heart of social and commercial activities.
And, further, they gain first-hand acquaintance
with our ideals of punctilious service.
Illustrated booklet
on request.
Telegraphic. Wireless and Cable Address:
“AustraotelSydney.
THE HOTEL OF THE COMMONWEALTH, SYDNEY.
-in the heart
things
lie
Australia
SMOKE-OH!
When misfortune assails some men they
grin and beer it.
* *
Lang’s chief job seems to be to bring
Bavin Governments to their censures.
* *
Modern children appear to be ruled with
a film hand.
* *
“Subscriptions lor those assaulted by ‘basher gangs*
have now reached £llBl 10s.”
Given by cashcr-gangs, of course.
* *
The man who resolves to re-model his
life merely re-muddles it, as a rule.
NO ODD ONE THERE.
“Nine out of ten women have a mission in life.”
“Yes, and the tenth would get married, too, if she had the chance.”
A Sydney interjeetor called Bruce “a silly
owl.” Bruce didn’t give a hoot.
THE SEVEN AGES OF WOMAN.
The infant.
The little girl.
The miss.
The young woman.
The young woman.
The young woman.
The young w’oman.
THE EXCEPTION.
“Archibald, especially when turned into ‘Archie,’
seems to stand for amiability. Who has ever seen
a stern, inflexible Archibald ?” —“Essay on Names.”
An Archibald may often be
Attractively devoid of starch,
Warm, human, amiable and free —
Yet London has a Marble Arch.
* *
è
Another of Sydney’s mysterious disappear-
ances was cleared up yesterday. The search-
party found the missing man in his usual
restaurant hoping against hope that the
waitress would stop talking to her favorite
feeder and serve him.
“At Canberra recently a pre-historic tooth 9in.,
long- was found.”
We have reason to suspect that the dentist
who extracted it bequeathed his waiting-
room and periodicals to the man w’ho looks
after our teeth.
# *
“Trying to overcome the numbing cold, the
captain stamped up and down the bride.”
—Sydney News.
Evidently one of those who love a quiet
wife.
* *
T.P.
They’ve “period furniture” next door,
Though ready cash they lack —
A period they have it for,
And then it's taken back.
*
“In convicting Gladys Smith....the magistrate
said that he had never before heard language such
as defendant was charged with using.”— Sun.
“Rich and rare were the gems she swore,”
as the old song has it.
“Under the N.S.W. Transport Bill, motorists who
commit minor traffic offences will be able to pay
on the spot.”
.But all except teetotal motorists have
been doing this for years.
* *
THE PARADOX.
“Since then he had parted from the woman. He
left her and went to live in Darlinghurst.” —Sydney
divorce report.
Persons with evil minds accursed,
At this odd fact toill grin:
He went to live in Darlinghurst,
And ceased to live in Bin,
* *
FROM “LANG’S GEOMETRY.”
A Primer for Politicians.
1. I alone am square.
2. A Bruce is that which has side, but no
magnitude.
3. Nothing can equal the sum of my
bitterness.
4. A Bavin is that which
reduces me to my lowest
terms.
5. The centre of a Labor
circle is wherever I may be.
Postulates and Proposi-
tions.
1.. Every figure on the
opposite side of the House
is anathema to me.
2. During the wrangles at
the base of the Speaker’s
chair I am equal to any-
thing.
3. A bogey may be pro-
duced any number of times.
4. Given quantities of loan
money. I could spend the
sum total in a way that none
could equal for financial
tangles.
5. All capital is infamous.
Capital derived from the
disposal by me of real-estate
is not capital.
6. I am for and against Arbitration, or
any angle thereof, as the case may be:
namely, that to which the Nationalist side
is opposite.
Fore Top.
PERIL.
“ ’Ere he comes, Bill, an’ judgin’ by the
look on his dial he means trouble. Grab this
axe. Spring to it, lad. A crowbar ’ll do me.
We’ll show the big bully! He’d put in the
boot quick an’ lively if he found us lyin’
around with empty hands.” “ >
Bill hitched up his trousers, spat on his
hands, and raised the axe high above his
head.
“We bluffed him all right,” said Bill a
few seconds later, and, sighing relievedly,
the road-repair gang resumed the siesta which
the approach of the foreman had disturbed.
Sap.
*
“Seated at their tables were Sir Thomas and Lady
Henley and the Ohio Civic Commissioner (Mr.
Garlick).” —Sydney Sun.
The tailors of the other two Civic Com-
missioners have written indignantly to the
Sun pointing out that their patrons are
every bit as chic as Mr. Garlick.
THE MOVING FINGER.
DAD (suddenly awakened and, hopeful ): “Is
that his thirdly?”
MA (wide awake and hopeless ): “No. He’s
only counting the congregation.”
It is comforting, with the Government
cutting down defence right and left, to see
more and moi’e of our picture-show ushers
getting into military uniforms.
* ¥
SEVEN MORE AGES.
A dear little baby.
A nice little girl.
A sweet young maiden.
A good wife.
A loving mother.
A mother-in-law.
A d —d nuisance.
A. H'.
A TORY’S DIARY.
June : The idea of this upstart scoundrel
Snowden being Chancellor! A Bolshevik!
A pacifist! A traitor to the Empire and
to our gracious King! England’s ruined,
and we might as. well hand it over to the
Russians without further argument.
July : I see the cursed Frenchies are
THE FRIGID AIR.
PIRATE I. TO PIRATE II. (after wasting a glad-eye ):
“Cripes, they don’t need no ice ter freeze th’
butter at ’ER joint!”
trying to take us down; financially, as usual.
However, Snowden seems to have been a bit
too much for ’em. Stout feller Snowden,
egad! One of these ridiculous foreign fools
had the impertinence to challenge him to a
duel. It only showed how riled our man
had got ’em. It’s the English blood in him.
You can’t beat it for dealing with these
degraded Southern races. Pity the feller’s
a Bolshie, though—a great pity !
August : The Frenchies are beat! Three
cheers for Phil Snowden! A true English-
man and a credit to the Empire. The
latest rumor is that our gracious King means
to ask him to stay at Windsor Castle.
And quite right, too. He will find in Phil
a loyal, patriotic and Imperialistic English-
man of the best type. I wouldn’t mind
having him to dinner myself.
D.C.
* *
Bruce sees no sweetness in the Hugheses
of adversity.
[For matter requiring a signature, J. B. Dailey,
214 George-street, Sydney, shares the blame with
J. E. Webb, same address.]
FORESTALLED.
Though other fingers hold her fragile hands,
Though other lips now seek her own athirst,
1 only hope the brighter understands
That he has nothing new . I kissed her first.
SOR.
NEWS BEHIND THE NEWS.
Little-known Facts About Well-
known Men.
Miss Maudlina Mix (Specialist in Up-
lift). —In private life, James (“Smacker”)
Bloggett. Is a leading patron of the Fettlers-
lane (Surry Hills) Two-up School, and wins
in his turn despite the handicap of habitual
insobriety. Deserted his wife shortly after
their marriage in 1892, and has avoided
female society ever since. Mr. Bloggett’s
“Maudlina Bares Her Soul” went into 12
editions after being banned by the Customs.
Lieut. - General Bludmore - Shrapnel,
V.D. —Though a participator in every Im-
perial war since early manhood, the General
has never been within 50 miles of a fighting
front. His admirers claim this as a record.
He did his bit in the World War as C.O.
troops on a transport, and only desisted when
the German submarines became active.
Author of “Into Battle” and “Down With
Disloyalism.”
Mr. Smith (Head Salesman in Fluff's
Stocking Department) .—Docile husband of
Mary Smith, and father of Willie, May,
Freddie and Pearl Smith. When last'wounded
in June, 1918, was Brigadier-General Smith,
V. 0., D. 5.0., M.M. and bar. However, no one
brings that up against him now. Had Par-
liamentary aspirations, but was told by one
of the Executives which decide whom the
people shall be allowed to vote for that “what
with Billy Hughes and Wally Marks there
were too- many Dinkum Anzacs in politics
already.”
“Anti-Bruce,” “N. Sydney Woman Elec-
tor,” “Admirer oe the Little Digger,”
“We Want Billy.” —Henry Wopson, Mem-
ber of Editorial Staff of Evening Bellow.
Has been its Chief Letter-writer for many
years. Was released to act as publicity
agent for Mr. W. M. Hughes in 1917, and
has cherished a burning desire ever since
to kick the nation’s saviour to death. N.B.
—ls also (between elections) “Pro Patria”
and “Pro Bono Publico.”
Sir Alureo Howelle, K.B.E. (the cele-
brated Imperialist and King’s Man). —In
1912 Solly Howl (as he then was) paid 9d.
in the f, and was threatened by the. Official
Assignee. Heard the call of Empire in 1914,
and plunged into patriotic work in connec-
tion' with military
stores. As a result
of devoted Empire
service during the
war years emerged
a millionaire. H'ad
the foresight to put
most of his savings
into the U.S.A.
picture business,
and was thus able
to pay for K.B.E.
out of income. If
the movie interests
defeat the Bruce
Government this
month, has pro-
mised his wife to
go in for a baron-
etcy.
10-2-4.
METAMORPHOSIS.
Jane i is a miss whom I won’t miss
After we’ve swapped our wedding kiss.
”Tis she shall miss me then, What blisses!
No married man can miss his Mrs.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.
GIVE AND TAKE.
The doctor said, “It's serious and threatens
to get chronic!
The medicine I’ll give njou is a good stiff
iron tonic.”
I’m better, but I realise, since his account
came in,
That he .swapped all his iron in exchange
for all my tin!
D. McM.
APPEAL TO SENTIMENT.
“Ex-Premier Joseph Carruthers, in an interview,
said: ‘Mr. Bruce will win the elections if he avoids
antagonising Mr. Hughes.’ ”
“Now hark to the well-meant advice, Stan,
Of one ivho has keen through it all”
Joe looloed at the picture signed “Billy”
Displayed on the opposite wall.
And then, in a voice which icith pathos did
ring,
The following words he proceeded to sing: —
Chorus.
Do not he rude to the poor little Digger,
Remember he’s all on his own.
Don’t let your henchmen offensively snigger,
Or barrack, or chiack, or groan
When Billy gets up and appeals for
assistance
In manner as mild as a dove.
Although to your schemes he has offered
resistance
He’s pining and praying for Love.
You’ve never quite fathomed our friend,
Stan.
He’s gentle and shrinking and shy.
A harsh word will give him a heartache,
A sneer bring a tear to his eye.
lie’s more like a girl than a boy in a way.
And that's why to you and Earle Page I
would say: —
Chorus.
Handle him lovingly; don't cause him
sorrow.
See that all comment you bar,
Such as might wound him. You’d grieve on
the morrow
Should you his happiness mar.
Meekness with him, and a dread of
presumption,
Go, as it were, hand in glove.
You will win him by going upon the
assumption
That all he is after is Love.
BLOGGS.


é


w,
Sin
JELLY
IN
fS)
Why is REX-PYE so obviously
supreme in quality ?
Simply because we use only the
very choicest raw materials,
never sacrificing quality for
cheapness.
Note the delicate, appetising
aroma of REX-PYE as you
open the can, and the fresh,
pink, wholesome appearance of
the meat. Note the clear, firm
jelly. Enjoy the delicious flavour
as you eat the dainty.
For Quality, always say REX-PYE to your
grocer or smallgoodsman.
£
rs
In lib and 'Alb hygienic cans.
Foggitt Jones Pty* Ltd*
(Division of United Provisions Ltd.)


m
Cruising to
JAVA and
SUMATRA
First-class round fare to Belawan
Deli (Sumatra), calling at Java ports,
Singapore and Penang: From Brisbane
and Sydney, £99; from Melbourne,
£lO5.
The K.P.M. invites you to wonder and wander in Java and
Sumatra, islands of exotic attractions.
Glorious days at sea, the comforts and conveniences of the
great Liners Nieuw Holland and Nieuw Zeeland will be a
delightful holiday for you.
The steamer is your hotel for the round voyage of seven weeks.
Full particulars from
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY
(K.P.M. Line),
255 George Street, Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., 11l William Street, Melbourne; Dalgety & Co., Brisbane;
Elder, Smith & Co., Adelaide and Perth.
Made by the Worlds most
expert craftsmen
Every Kropp Razor turned out at
Sheffield, England, is hand-forged from
solid bars of steel. Kropp means razor
perfection —a far keener edge than you
get with ordinary
cast steel or
machine - stamped
razors. Buy a
Kropp and enjoy
shaving comfort for
a lifetime.
c lhe
KROPP
never requires grinding
Individually tested, and fully guaranteed. Black,
Ivory or Xylonite handles. From the usual dealers.
Wholesale only: OSBORNE GARRETT & CO., LTD., London, England.
e
p
4.LL- BRITISH *
AVOID
SUBSTITUTES:
Every genuine
Kropp stamped
“Made and
ground in
Shefftel d,
England”
è
In every stitch of" a "Rameno”
Brand "Merino-Knit” Cardigan
or Sweater there is quality, in
every colour attractiveness. Each
garment is correct in shape and
of just the right tension to fit
the figure and yet give freely to
all movements oF the limbs.
n Memo -Knit,
Always Fit"
Discriminating men realise that
it is better to purchase high-grade
garments' —-Knitted Fabrics of
Super-quality that keep shape
and wear indefinitely. Ask your
Mercer, then, for "Rameno”
Brand "Merino-Knit” Cardigans
and Sweaters.
M 36
M
jfi'lifp Blifl
n
S. P. England, the Victorian
Tennis Coach, wears
" Ratneho” Brand “ Merino-
Knit '' Sports Garments.
m
“nAMENO”
BRAND
EBINOKNH
“RAMENO” Brand
CARDIGANS &• SWEATERS
Made only by MERINO WOOLLEN MILLS PTY. LTD.,
Collingwood, N 5, Vic., Specialists in Men’s High-Grade Knitted .
Cardigans and Sweaters, Half Hose and Golf Hose.
oAsk Your SMercer for " Brand " gMerino-Knit” Wear
Pen and Picture
The
STATE
THEATRES
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Shadow Shows
Anyone with, a taste for looking back over
films might spend a few busy minutes in
recalling how many American-made pictures
he has seen in which an employer deserted
by his employees wins to a successful end-
ing without them, or even in spite of them.
The idea is not often used as the whole
theme of a movie, as it is in “Give and
Take” (Universal), but it is fairly common
as an incidental —as, for example, in “The
Fox Follies,” where the stagehands walk out
on strike in the middle of a production and
leave their inexperienced employer to face
the, to him, appalling job of setting up the
scene for the principal act. He wins, as
usual, by the help of “loyal” members of
the staff —an incident that Australian
workers seem delighted to pay good coin
to witness,, but which off the screen they
wrtuld regard as scabbing of a very low
order. “Give and Take” is strongly sym-
pathetic with the employers’ side, though
here, as elsewhere, the obvious propaganda
is made subservient to the story superim-
posed upon it, and is further disguised by
the introduction of broad farce towards the
end. So the good unionist can go away
quite happy, singing “Solidarity for Ever”
and “Hands Off the Movies, Mr. Bruce.”
It should be interesting to see how sup-
porters of the box-office respond to the talkie
version of “The Desert Song” (Warner
Bros.), which as a legitimate musicomedy
broke records in Australia. It is hard to pass
CARLOTTA KING,
of the Talkie
“Desert Song.”
an unpreju-
diced judg-
ment upon it
when one has
seen it in
both forms.
C o in parison
must come in.
In this Show-
man’s opinion
there is noth-
ing in the talkie
version that
quite replaces
the living per-
sonal element
of the other.
The canned
voices are un-
q u e stionabl.v
better voices
than those
that sang the
pleasing di t -
ties in the
Firm’s show.
Even with the
d i s t o rtions
that have not
yet been cleaned out of the can, there is
one tenor voice probably more worth hearing
than all the legitimate performers’ voices put
together. The talkie acting, too, is of all-
round higher quality, and for those who like
it there is now the whole sweep of the
desert actually in sight, instead of sug-
gested. As a spectacle, the film is bigger in
every way. But whether that makes it better
is another matter. Color is introduced in
the film, though for most of the way the
famous Shadow is a black-and-white one;
but the color has no blue in it 'and is
patently artificial. It is, perhaps, for color
more than anything else that the. stage set-
ting wins. Presented as the Firm lately
presented it “The Desert Song” is a pano-
rama of palpitating beauty. As the Film
presents it, beauty is mostly absent. On
the other hand, the action is brisker in the
film, though the fact that there is a lot
more of it takes so much from that advan-
tage that the thing seems to drag. How-
ever, forget the charm of actual personality
and the beauty of living color, and the talkie
has unusually strong merits as an enter-
tainer.
The characters in “A Man’s Man”
(M.-G.-M.) hardly require stage names. The
story might be a slab out of the domestic
life of William Haines and Josephine Dunn,
the principals. This is the charm of this
sort of movie. It is as intimate, interesting
and evanescent as gossip told over the back
fence on washing morning. William marries
Josephine, and, while Josephine is lured into
a near-intrigue with a gentleman who offers
to make her the successor to Greta Garbo
for the usual consideration, William puts
his hard-earned savings into oil shares, at
the instigation of the same sinister person.
When William hears of Josephine’s dere-
liction he is mad, but not so mad as J. when
she hears of W.’s foolishness. In the end
they are reconciled, and William, with
Josephine holding his coat, goes after the
deceiver’s gore and gets it. As harmless
as a lolly cigar and as easily assimilated.
The producer of “The Fox Movietone Fol-
lies of 1929” did not give. himself a sick
headache looking for anything new in the
nature of a plot. A young gentleman who
objects to his girl appearing on the stage,
-with.. that airy attitude towards finance
peculiar to the screen buys for 50,000
dollars a Broadway show in order to be in
a position to give his love the sack. It
turns out, after he has made the purchase,
that the enterprise is on the rocks. How-
ever, the opening night arrives. Everything
goes 'Swimmingly until the unionist scene-
shifters walk out: whereupon the creditors
assist. Fresh trouble develops when the star
refuses . to go on. The heroine thereupon
barges in and, doubly inspired by her mis-
understood love, sings a jazz ditty with the
feeling appropriate to its elevated theme.
This effort brings down the house. Where-
upon the young man sells out and marries
the girl. The plot is interspersed with
assorted vaudeville, and every device at the
command of the photographer is used to
convey the impression of a rich, varied and
impressive substitute for the element ot
personality offered by the flesh and blood
stage. Sometimes the screen is a mass o*.
waving legs, sometimes a jungle of bur-
geoning busts, and anon a garden of smiling
faces from which emerge rather astonishingly
baby voices, fitting for infants of tender
years. Nevertheless, the photography makes
up for a lot. Sometimes you get a bird’s-
eye view of the show, then a slug’s-eye view.
Then you are whisked off behind the scenes.
It is all very amusing and exciting, if a
trifle exhausting for the unsophisticated.
The Inky Way
George Fenwick, of Dunedin, who. has
passed over at 82, arrived in the Dominion
73 years ago, and at the age of 12 be-
came a devil in the Otago Witness office.
Finishing his apprenticeship, he spent a
year in Australia and then returned to M.L.
to commence a career as newspaper manager
and proprietor. In 10 years he and his
partner, James Reed, had purchased the
Witness and its side-kicker, the Otago
Daily Times. Fenwick became managing
director of the company they floated, a posi-
tion he held till the day of his death. For
many years he occupied the editorial chair
of tiie O.D.T. He was one of the founders
of the United Press Association
“Adelaide Street” : W. H., father of Lit.
Groom, was editor and proprietor of the
Toowoomba Chronicle for donkeys’ years,
and Arthur, the father of A. C. Morgan, his
opponent in the current Federal election, was
editor and proprietor of the neighboring War-
wick Argus —also for donkeys’ years. The
two old rivals went into Parliament, each
for his own village, and each of them became
Speaker. Groom got one in on Morgan by
becoming first Federal member for the
Darling Downs, which includes the dung-
hills whereon the two cocks had long crowed;
and Morgan evened matters up by becoming
State Premier. The two families are still
interested in the two papers, though Lit.,
taking to the law, never gave the family
sheet much assistance.
There’s a great scrap on in Sydney be-
tween the Sun and the Guardian. One day
last week the Guardian had a few words
with street runners, and for a few hours
while they yelled their Sun and News they
covered themselves in a gay poster adver-
tising the early approach of the Sunday
Guardian. Then it was the Sun-News
turn to have a few words with the runners.
When they got home that night those run-
ners were beginning to realise that easy
money isn’t always really as easy as it looks
when it’s first introduced.
Harry Weston is illustrating The Bulle-
tin’s next serial, “Merry Christmas.” The
story, by Arthur Groom, was described by
the judges as holding more humor than any
other of the 500-odd in the competition: and
Weston is faithfully portraying Sandy Jack-
son, the incorrigible of the yarn, which
begins in Brisbane, travels through Too-
woomba, gets up to Cloncurry and finishes
up somewhere near the Northern Territory
border. It’s a very modern story, with a
woman doctor in charge of a Backblocks
hospital and many cheers for the northern
State’s wonderful ambulance service. It isn’t
tremendous literature, but it holds many very
fine pictures of far-out Queensland and the
Queensland bushman, and is full of grins.
We’ll start it on Nov. 0.
One of the war casualties was the Vic.
Aero Club, formed at Point Cook in 1914
and dissolved a few months afterwards, most
of its members having urgent imperial busi-
ness elsewhere. The club was revived in
1924 and up to date 06 A licenses have been
obtained as' a result of its tuition, which is
the cheapest in Australia. It now has its
organ in Slipstream, a slim monthly
edited by A. C. Moyle, C. A. Sheil and
G. J. Moore. Tom White, M.P. for Bala-
clava. and author of “Guests of the Unspeak-
able,” was one of the founders.
“John B.”: A recent severe snowfall in
Litligow (N.S.W.) disorganised the electric
service, but the Mercury got out on time.
There being no juice for the motor that,
drives linos and presses a car was lifted
bodily into the machine-room, and the rear
wheels were jacked up. A belt was coupled
to a pulley on the driving shaft and on
second gear the car gave all the power
needed.
The Palette
Sharp observation, rich color and depth
are features of Robert Johnson’s display
of Sydney’s scenic wares at the Fine Art
Gallery, Melbourne. Mr. Johnson is obviously
influenced by Sid Long, Streeton, Gruner
and other fellow-practitioners, but his habit
of frequent reference to Nature saves him
from being a mere slave to other men’s con-
ventions. He paints well enough to be able
to rely with confidence on his own untram-
melled powers of seeing.
Vida Lahey has a show of paintings at the
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney. Some of her
landscapes are uninteresting, though the
workmanship is by no means bad. “A Reach
of the River” holds more diversity and com-
pleteness than most, and a fragment of a
Brisbane street, with a bauhinia tree in
bloom, is bright. In two flower groups, one
partly shaded, the other (called “A Nose-
gay”) full of light, the artist is at her best.
September Art in New Zealand opens
with a reproduction of a fine oil by Evelyn
Poison, “December Morn,” two girls in a
boat, with a nude maid poised in the centre
foreground. A water-color glimpse of the
Franz Josef glacier by M. O. Stoddart is
another satisfying color reproduction," and
“The Tractor,” another water-color, by Ken-
neth Mac Queen, looks as good as black-and-
white reproduction will permit. Art and
literary articles, with verse by Eileen Duggan
and others, fill the space not occupied by the
pictures.


fa
I m
m
m
4
5*
a/,
4^.
1
s
m
W
i*
BS
Si®,
1
HARxrrs
SF>A JOCLI ATG


GOLF SETS
Imported from the Heather Co., Scotland.
EVERY STICK GUARANTEED.
Special Matched
Sets,
Comprising—
BRASSIE,
MID-IRON,
MASHIE
PUTTER,
TAN BAG,
2 BALLS.
COMPLETE SET,
57/6
STAINLESS SET,
696
We pay 5 carriage.
N.S.W. Sports Store, Ltd.,
26 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
ALAN KIPPAX, Director.
ê
AUSTRALIA’S BEST.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BE.HT BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
MELLOWED BY AGE ALONE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney,
[2
W. W. GREENER
GUNS
For Quality,
Durability,
Price.
W. W. GREENER, LTD.,
BIRMINGHAM.
Wholesale Australian Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.,
405-07 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Catalogues on application.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Bookmakers, fielding and “resting,” formed
a large proportion of the crowd in the pad-
dock at the Il'awkesbury meeting on Satur-
day. Those who sported the bag had the
better of things, especially as the Spring
Handicap gave most off them a “skinner.”
They would not take liberties /with Kavalli,
sto 4 being the best price offered. Cook
rode the favorite, and for the second succes-
sive Saturday his riding came in for criti-
cism. Kavalli cannoned into something else
near the six-furlongs, post; his head went up
and he dropped back several lengths. When
Cook got him going again it was too late,
for Sunflare (12 to 1), had set. up a long
lead. Kavalli ran home well, but the im-
ported horse (he is by Sunstar—Florena)
was four lengths to the good at the end of
11 furlongs, run in the capital time of 2min.
20sec.
Sunflare, who was ridden by little Hickey,
returned £lO 10s, 6d. for 10s. on the tote —an
unmerciful showing-up for McShortodds, as
there were two other dividends. The importa-
tion is not in the Metrop. Kavalli’s price for
that race receded in consequence of his
defeat; still, horses seldom win when they
are interfered with as badly as he was, and
it should not be forgotten that Oratrix was
beaten by six lengths in the Ilawkesbury
Spring Handicap last year, only to run an
excellent second in the Metrop. on the fol-
lowing Monday week.
Vertoy (4 to 1), a rather taking sort of
five-year-old brown mare by The Verderer —
Toinette, won the Highweight Handicap
decisively from Black Douglas, Dolomite and
Bavacre, who was favorite. Vertoy, on
whom Bartle had the mount, has been backed
at a long price for the Epsom, in which she
has 6st. 111 b.
Tindall, who owns and trains Bavacre, was
amply compensated for her failure by the
success of Goldminer in the Three-year-old
Handicap and that of Hustler in the Rowley
Mile. Goldminer was backed from fours to
7to 4; Hustler from fours to threes. Coutts
rode them, and they won very easily.
♦ sfc sfc ijs
C. W. Cropper and his staff are putting
the finishing touches on their arrangements
for the A.J.C. Spring meeting, which begins
at Randwick on Saturday, and they have
every reason for their expectation that it
will prove one of the greatest affairs they
have ever handled. The Derby alone should
be worth a visit to the historic course, which
is looking beautiful. A finer lot of three-
year-olds lias rarely been assembled for one
race. This Page picks Phar Lap to win—
did so wmeks ago—but Honour and Carra-
dale have excellent credentials, Comanche
is a handsome fellow who runs like a stayer,
and the Hunter White pair, Lorason and
Firbolg, are good. Not since Heroic beat
Nigger Minstrel and Spearfelt has there
b n ou a more interesting Derby. During the
last few weeks Phar Lap has had three
races in first-class company. This should
help the big chestnut, and the want of a
race may tell against Honour and Carra-
dale, though their trainers should know best.
Phar Lap, Telford says, is not to run in
the Melbourne Cup.
For w.f.a. races there are Mollison, Night-
march, Amounis, Winalot, Limerick and
Bacchus—a warm lot. Limerick may not
start, but the others should furnish thrilling
sport. The inclusion of Bacchus in this
company may be questioned; on the other
hand, Kelso’s old horse beat Winalot in the
Randwick Plate last year. He is doing very
well on the track.
Maoriland has supplied two of the favo-
rites for the Epsom—Paquito (Bst. 91b.)
and Nightmarch (9st. 41b.). Both are good
horses, and neither has ever run a bad race.
Gilt Edge (Bst. 71b.) is the Victorian repre-
sentative and a strong one, and it is doubt-
ful if Don Moon (Bst. 61b.) has ever looked
better, though he has turned seven. Fujisan
(9st. 61b.), Killarney (Bst. 111 b.) and
Loquacious (Bst. 111 b.) will also have to
be reckoned with, and among the good light-
weights are Perception (7st. 121 b.), Ilaba-
shon (7st. 101 b.), Adrian’s March (7st. 71b.)
and Vertoy. It is an open race, and decid-
edly not one to risk much money on. Honest
Loquacious is here chosen, though she has
her share of weight.
• •*•••
Nightmarch, if he misses the Epsom, will
go out favorite for the Metropolitan, in
which he has 9st. 21b. Not often is the
Metrop. won with such a weight, but the
son of Night Raid has succeeded in Sydney
with 21b. more. Paquito, if he fails in the
Epsom, will have Bst. 71b. The distance
rather than the burden will trouble this light-
framed fellow. Valparaiso is well handi-
capped at Bst. 41b.; he won the King’s Cup
at a mile and a half and was second in the
same race to Limerick a year' before. In each
case he looked like going on. And if the
brother to Fujisan is not equal to the occasion
Nailon, his trainer, lias, a good second string
in Spearman (7st. 51b.), who is obviously
improving. Inducement (Bst.) was one of
the early favorites, but hasn’t done as well
as Kelso hoped; and Tidal (7st. 21b.) has
been giving his trainer trouble. Then there
are Ivavalli (7st. 61b.) and Tarapunga (6st.
121 b.). This Page has a high opinion' of
Ivavalli, and will remain faithful to him in
spite of his recent defeats. If he isn’t a good
one his looks belie him. Fancies:—
Trial Stakes: Spcarshot.
A.J.C. Derby: Phar Lap, 1; Carradale,
2; Honour, 3.
Epsom Handicap: Loquacious, 1; Paquito,
2; Don Moon, 3,
Spring Stakes: Bacchus ; next, Amounis.
Kensington Handicap : Loud Praise ; next,
TJlah.
Metropolitan: Kavalli, 1; Valparaiso, 2;
Spearman, 3.
Spearshqt may be worth following in
midlde-distance races. ,
❖ Sjc ❖ ❖
Second Wind opened his winning account
on eastern courses by taking the Tullamarine
Handicap at Moonee Valley on Saturday.
The form of this Perth prad is baffling. Run-
ning a good third at Williarnstown in August,
he was made early favorite for the Caulfield
Cup. A ghastly failure at Aspendale fol-
lowed.. The animal wasn’t tested again until
INNOCENCE ABROAD.
THE BOOKIE (indulgently ): “Well, young lady, got any fancy?”
THE SWEET YOUNG THING: “Oh, I don’t know—what are you backing yourself?”
September 21, at Mentone; in the race won
by Karuma he galloped a bit better, but
petered out at the finish. Holt put R.
Coonerty on Ernest Lee Steere’s horse at
Moonee Valley, and allowed him to run loose,
15 to 1 being obtainable. El Rey, a half-
brother to Waranton, looked home and dry
until Coonerty called on Second Wind, who
scored by nearly a length. Ilolt contem-
plated recommending Lee Steere to pull his
candidate out of the Caulfield Cup. The
aggravating quadruped should be a certain
starter now; still, trust in him cannot be
fully restored unless he follows up the Valley
victory by another, or by a decent display in
good company.
Prince Viol, from Tasmania, started a hot
favorite for the Tullamarine- Handicap, with
Nagrada next in demand. Neither was
placed. Prince Viol made heavy weather on
the rails, and may be excused to some extent.
Gleamliglit, trained by Jim Scobie, gained
third money, and is advancing towards thor-
ough fitness.
With only 9st. to carry in the Quality
Handicap, Highland ought to have been at
odds-on, particularly in view of his stable
mate, Second Wind, having caught the
judge’s eye. However, 5 to 4 against actually
was laid. The favorite seemed in hopeless
trouble three furlongs from home, but the
leaders suddenly spread out like a fan, and
W. Duncan was presented with an unim-
peded passage. To the accompaniment of
cynical remarks from disgruntled book-
makers, Highland gained the spoils by half
a length, David Garrick and Aga Khan
being in the minor places.
Duncan did not excel himself on Phocis,
who was an even-money favorite for the
second division of the Trial Handicap. The
Drake, colt lost balance in the jump-off, was
pocketed on the rails, and had to be shifted
to the outside. Energy thus used up
hampered Phocis when he ranged alongside
the Spearhead filly Hasta, who held him
comfortably at bay down the straight. Hasta
started at 10 to 1, odds similar to those
available about Bessemer in the first division.
Slieafmead, carrying the Albanian livery,
was at practically even money for Bessemer’s
race. He hit the front, but could not remain
there, surrendering to both Bessemer and
Laniard. T. M. Burke owns Bessemer, a
three-year-old by Devizes.
Ben Chaffey derived no profit from the
triumph of Tea Cosy in the first division of
the Ailsa Handicap. The Maoriland-bred geld-
ing passed out from 4 to 1 to 12 to 1; he
cut down North Star (a 7 to 4 favorite) at
the straight entrance. Faramaueli, who had
been second last at the half-way stage,
finished brilliantly, only three-quarters of a
length behind Tea Cosy. lie is trained by
Harry McCalman, who has charge of
Albanian and Kalloni. Duncan appropriated
the second division of this event on Royal
Raven. The high-priced Dominant, heavily
backed, faded out of a situation when Royal
Raven overhauled him 50 yards from home.
Isocrates, formerly owned by Sol Green,
but now raced by trainer Lou Robertson,
was second, a neck in advance of Galenist.
Conde ran away with the Hurdle Race, and
Gulyarri landed the Arundel Steeplechase,
which had rightly been regarded as a match
between the old ’un and Yalbroy.
* * * *
For Flemington on Saturday:
Stand Handicap: Caramelo ; next. Catkin.
October Stakes: High Syce; next,
Albanian.
“Morkrum”: Broadcasting put an end to
the flood of sporting items and results that
used to be wired to country centres on Satur-
day afternoons. Telegraphists were thus left
in the dark. Stray country offices laid loud
speakers on, and now head-office operators
get the winner of “the last” from various
points in the timber. Recently in Sydney
I wondered how the battle for the Rosehill
Guineas was shaping. From far up in The
Corner, where N.S.W., Q. and S.A. lean on
each other, came a tapping: “Phar Lap out
in front.” Thirty seconds later another flicker
of current along 600 miles of copper told
me that The Bulletin’s fancy had made
the grade.
* * *
“Thormanby” : Trigo, winner of the Derby
and St. Leger (B. 18/9/’29), has had a
short life and a gay one on the English
turf, for he was retired to his owner’® stud-
farm at Cloghran, where he was foaled, when
the season ended. Before making his fare-
wells he brought off an unusual treble by
winning the Irish Leger at the Curragh.
His owner, an Irishman himself, had the
colt entered for the Scottish Derby and the
Irish Leger, both run on the same day.
National sentiment decided in favor of the
Curragh event, which Trigo duly won at 7
to 1 on.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
English boxer “Battling” Siki had his
second fight at Sydney Stadium on Satur-
day night, his opponent being Queensland’s
crack boy, Herb Barkle, who was substi-
tuted for Australian champion Vic White.
After 15 rounds, which were never very
thrilling, honors were declared even. Barkle
with an advantage in weight (he scaled
Bst. 61b. to Siki’s 7st.
13J1b.) started off
confidently, but always
found the tricky Eng-
lishman willing to
mix it, though the
visitor did a lot of
smothering in rounds
five, and six’, during
which Barkle scored
well with body blows.
The final rounds were
fought at a fast clip
without much damage
being done on cither
side.
* *
That Melbourne is
tiring of the wrestlers
was demonstrated on
Saturday night .when
John Pesek (13st. 81b.)
and Allen Eustace
(15st. 121 b.) perform-
ed before a small and
caustite crowd. Fol-
lowing liis amiable cus-
tom, John allowed the
other fellow to make
the going and gave the crowd its few thrills
by the narrowness of his escapes. Once
more he chose the sixth round for his scor-
ing effort, and, flattening Allen with a figure-
four scissors and arm bar, collected the
verdict with the only fall of the match.
Footbrawl
Melbourne wound up its football season,
as far as the League was concerned, on
Saturday in a blaze of glory, 63,236 persons
shedding £3227 9s. 3d. to watch Collingwood
overwhelm Richmond. Collingwood showed
the macliine-like precision it had displayed
throughout the first round, while Richmond
sparkled intermittently, but with little cohe-
sion. Collingwood was a team, Richmond
wasn’t. Always when a Collingwood man
mulled a mark or fumbled a pass there was
another handy to send the ball on.
Richmond failed in that respect, and it
made all the difference. In the first quarter
Collingwood gained a four-goal lead and held
that advantage steadily to the end, when
the side boasted 11 goals 13 behinds
to Richmond’s 7 goals 8 behinds. Of the
winners hardly one shone out above another;
perhaps Syd Coventry, George Clayden and
Harry Edmunds did a trifle more than the
rest; while Richmond was best served by
Allan Geddes and Mick Sheahan. This is
Collingwood’s third successive victory, and
its eighth premiership since the League was
born —one more than Fitzroy, the next
best. By booting 2 goals, Gordon Coventry
brought his season’s tally to 124. just twice
as many as the next best, Vallence, of
Carlton, and 27 more than Coventry’s own
previous best of 97, in 1927.
* * * *
After winning their sixth successive match,
a mid-week fixture against a strong Lanca-
shire side, by 29 to 14. the Australian Rugby
League players in England succumbed to
Wakefield Trinity on Saturday bv 14 to 3.
Trinity is one of the oldest and strongest
clubs in the Yorkshire section of the North-
ern Union, and was led by Australia’s old
acquaintance Jonathan Parkin. The visi-
tors, who have suffered many casualties,
fielded their second team, but the victory of
the Tykes was a convincing one.
(Continued on page Jjl.)


Tungstone the Only Car Battery in the World with Four Years Guarantee
WORLD'S RECORDS
*>r Exceptional Plate Storage “Long Life
e
TESTS MADE at the BRITISH GOVERNMENT’S TESTING STATION
Only Four Hours on Car or Bench to Complete Works First Partial Charge
è
Only “ Pure Lead ” Plate Portable Car or Wireless Battery in the World
EXCEPTIONAL STORAGE CAPACITY - IN SMALL SPACE BECAUSE PURE LEAD IS THE ONLY METAL
THAT WILL PERFECTLY, RELIABLY AND EFFICIENTLY GENERATE AND STORE ELECTRICITY
CHEMICALLY CONVERTED—THE BASIC WORKING PRINCIPLE OF ANY MAKE OF ACCUMULATOR
TUNGSTONE Slogan The PLATE * NERVE CENTRE .< ANY BATTERY*
TUNGSTONE The Only Battery in the World that reveals to the User. “ THE NERVE CENTRE.” Invitation to the " Doubting Thomases ”
PURE LEAD PLATES in the World High-Pressure Machine Die-Cast and Pasted by Automatic Machinery
Timgstone’s Unequivocal Statement and Challenge
TUNGSTONE S Extraordinary and Revolutionary Claims for Plate Endurance, Paste Adhesion, Mechanical Strength, Reliability, Durability,
Storage Capacity are daily conclusively proved by Working Demonstrations on a 54 Plate Portable Car Battery fitted with measuring and
recording instruments. The Battery up-to-date has been dead Short-circuited 123 times across main terminals was also daily used for
Light and Self-Starting a 23-30 H.P. Engine. This Car demonstrated daily in London.
SIP J?
. /•*
first unhck
vsm
till flA liU
tfash er
m
s*BSW
•*
«
Lift off
lid
ell
frail
Ekj*
05
I
1
sS SKifSS L ! HSSS i B«:S
1
Lift out jv
bodily i-/ ?§■
g •§> •
end &.T ’ >v>
Sp&c*?
Tungstone Pure Lead Plates. —World’s Highest
Record for Amp. and Watt Hour Efficiency. (British
Government’s Official Test Certificate on Application).
Tungstone Machine Pasted Plates. —'Exceptionally
Thick, Strong, Unique Construction. Machine Pasted.
No Treeing of Negatives.
Tungstone High-Pressure Machine Die-Cast
Plates. —Cannot in Service be Buckled, Short-cicuited
or Distorted.
Tungstone’s Thicker and Stronger Plates. —Paste
does not drop out of Plate. No Space provided in
Cells. No Wood Separators required or used to hold
in the Paste.
Tungstone’s Pure Lead Interchangeable Plates. —
No Permanent Sulphation—The deadly disease that
permanently attacks and eventually destroys all
Batteries except Tungstone.
Tungstone’s Standardised Plates. N egligible
Internal Resistance. World’s Records for Big Starter
Kicks, Quicker Charges and Discharges.
Tungstone’s Accessible and Removable Plates. —
Only Maker in the World to test the Pasting by twice
passing Plates through Vertical and Horizontal
Jogging Machines.
Tungstone Machine Pasted Plates. Cannot be
Damaged or Broken Down in Tropical Climates by
Continuous High Charging.
Tungstone Pure Lead Plates. —Exceptionally Low
Air and Acid Temperatures in Cell certified by
British Government Tests.
Tungstone High-Pressure Machine Die-Cast
Plates. —Strongly recommended to be Charged by
Car Dynamo at Continuous High Rates.
Tungstone’s Thicker and Stronger Plates. —Ideal
for Constant Potential Dynamo Charging. No
Overheating of Plates or Electrolyte.
Tungstone’s Interchangeable Plates. —At Works
Without Extra Cost to the Purchaser are Fully
Formed and First Partially Charged.
Tungstone’s Standardised Plates. —Works First
Partial Charge Completed in only FOUR
CONTINUOUS HOURS on Car or Bench.
Tungstone’s Accessible and Removable Plates. —
On First Charge cannot be damaged. Life Not
Shortened or Capacity Lost.
Tungstone New Plate Sections. —Ready for Immediate
Use. Spare Plate Sections Dry Charged can be
Stored for unlimited Period in any Climate.
Tungstone New Plate Sections. —Interchangeable
for Re-plating any Cell without removing Battery from
Vehicle. Can be First Charged on Car. Can be
Re-plated in a few minutes.
Oil
Lift
right
£. left
Spacers*
tmmm
i Plates
s separated
' by an
Hftms $
motion
m.-My PA :
stfl iSIUI ■■ l i 1
111 |-1 •
mm
2'VoltCeil
;. dismantled
in ;•
12 seconds ■ •
Tsings torse the Only Car Battery in the World with “Independent Triple ” Insulation of each Plate and 2 Volt Metal Cell is separately fixed and Insulated.
Above SIX movements conclusively prove that TUNGSTONE Car Battery is NOT a “ Sealed up Mystery ” to he solved only by the Maker at the Owners
expense. TUNGSTONE’S Accessibility “Opens the Door” for anyone to learn how and why TUNGSTONE gives to the owner-user absolute Security and
Reliable Service with Freedom from Excessive Repair costs, and Vexatious delays.
Re-plating by New Plate Sections reliably renews the Storage Capacity to the Original Standard of a New Battery. Time and Money Saved.
Either Section can be Independently Be-plated at different periods, as and when each Plate Section completes its Fuller Life.
THE FIXED PRICE FOR NEW PLATE SECTIONS IS THE ONLY REPAIR COST. RE-PLATED BY ANYONE WITH THE TWO SPANNERS SUPPLIED FREE.
Tungstone is the Only Car Battery in the World with Positive Plates completely separated from the Negative. Each Plate Section has a separate
existence and Distinct Working Life. The Longer Life of the Tungstone Negative will NOT Earlier terminate the Life of the Positive.
All other Makers Plates are in Monoblock Sections, therefore, must simultaneously and always Earlier destroy each other.
Tungstone Re-plating of one or more Cells, as required, compares with the economical usual practice of Re-plating a House Lighting Battery.
WHEN RE-PLATING YOUR HOUSE-LIGHTING BATTERY SPECIFY TUNGSTONE HIGH-PRESSURE MACHINE DIE-CAST PLATES.
ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET FROM LOCAL GARAGES AND ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR OR SENT POST FREE.
SYDNEY: A. J. Dawson, M.1.A.E., 91 William Street, Sydney. Tel. FL2084
MELBOURNE: Hocking & Hadden Pty., Ltd., 208 Latrobe Street.
BRISBANE: Brisbane Cars and Tractors, Ltd., 324-28 Wickham Street,
Fortitude Valley.
PERTH: R. Little & Co., 33 Pier Street.
ADELAIDE: Mechanical Supplies, Ltd., Grenfell Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Aldridge Ltd., Hearne’s Buildings,
100 Dixon Street.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Offices
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic P.isk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers' Compensation,
etc., etc.
SCIENCE- AND LIFE!
Scientific medical research has given to men and women ten years
longer life!
The dispensing and delivering of life-saving medicines are daily
occurrences in my business.
Whether you live in Sydney or innermost Australia, I can send you
all your medical requirements.
Just pin this advertisement to your letter or prescription, and your
medicines will reach you by return mail. (V.P. or otherwise.)
Call in personally when next you are in town
W. JAMES ROGERS, Chemist,
355 George Street (opposite G.P.0.), Sydney.
trt
unstte®
CA*®
FOR MORE
MILES
TO THE
GALLON
Wholesale Agents and Stockists:
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Gert: 11 Going fog a saiv_,&er.t ?"
6ebt yes, like to come ? "
GERT Vou VJOULO NT TAKE ME
Yesterday \"
Best But its Rouch; the boat t_i_
NEED MORE BM-LAST ToDAV,
The Ins and Outs
“Lit. Scrip.”: The final kybosh—which
I can assure Judge Curlewis is good Turki
—has been put on the cricket player-writer
by the Board of Control. No cricketer,
whether he be a professional journalist or
not, may comment on, cricket after his selec-
tion for the Australian XI. Further, prior
to the selection of the Eleven, no comment
is permitted on the prospects of other
players. Critics may dissect the actual per-
formance of a player in the field or with
the bat, but must not prejudge his eligi-
bility as a candidate for the XI. If the
board had never done anything else worth
while, it should acquire eternal merit for
this long-delayed stand. Look back and 1
think what the public had to put up with
last season.
* * # *
“Sangaree”: Australia is at last to see
those fine sporting cricketers the West
Indians, who gave such a good account of
themselves in England last year. They have
been invited to come along for the 1930-31
season, so the visit will just sandwich in
between the Australian tour of England and
the advent of the South Africans in 1931-32.
It is to be hoped that the mercurial Con-
stantine, now playing professional cricket in
the Lancashire League, will be one of the
party. As fast-bowler, mighty smiter and
marvellous field the big darky is a show in
himself.
* * * *
“Fed Up”: Someone has been writing in
the Sydney press demanding more big cricket.
Australian players don’t get enough of it,
and more ought to be provided, though
where it is to come from the critic, after
the manner of his kind, does not explain.
Even in an ordinary Sheffield Shield sea-
son, the leading; inter-State players get little
chance to do any useful work from November
to March, during which period they are
touring Australia from Brisbane to Adelaide.
With a visiting side in Australia the posi-
tion is aggravated a hundredfold. What on
earth does the innovator want? A. country
abandoning all other national activities, in-
cluding pony-racing, for the entire summer,
or the permanent maintenance of a Prae-
torian Guard of professional cricketers with
no other aim in life?
% * * *
“Tenth Slip” : There is plenty of evidence
that Australia’s experiment with the eight-
ball over may be dropped. Not because the
scheme does not work well, but because over-
seas players have unanimously refused to
adopt it in their own countries and in Test
matches in Australia. Thus we have the
anomaly of Australian bowlers wheeling up
eight balls in a Sheffield match, resorting
to six in a Test, and going back again
to eight in State matches against visiting
teams. In all matches overseas _ the howler
has to confine himself to the six-ball over
once more. The differing methods tend more
than is supposed to put bowlers and fields-
men out of their stride, and the experiment
generally seems hardly worth the advantages
claimed for it.
“Aigburth”: I have always contended that
the art of barracking was not born in Aus-
tralia, as British cricket writers are apt
to insist is the ease. I am backed in my
opinion by a book which has recently come
my way. ’ Published in 1848, it is entitled
“The Happy Village and Other Poems.” In
rather Johnsonian verse, the bard notes that
one may see :
A group with busy tongues—
Folks who delight to exercise their lungs—
When their side’s winning give a boisterous cheer,
Or shout derisive should the game look queer.
The poet was one William Banco, reported
to be a man out of Surrey.
The Watermen
“Guilford”: The Westralian championship
sculls, rowed over a two-mile course on the
Swan River, resulted in a victory for the
title-holder, Iv. Langley. There were three
starters, but the Westralian, who gave Bobby
Pearce a great go in the Australian cham-
pionship event in May, was too good fur
the opposition. Gaining the lead from the
start, he took matters easily, to finish two
lengths ahead of veteran Rogers, with E.
Adkins well down the course. The time was
12min. 25sec., good going for an unpressed-
winner.
* * * *
“Stretcher” : Sydney, which harbors all the
rowing clubs in N.S.W. save one, is to have
another added to the list. This is to be named
the Eastern Suburbs R. C., and will have its
headquarters at Rose Bay. Sydney Harbor
Trust will grant the lease of a site near
Lyne Park, if the Woollahra Council agrees
to the erection of a clubhouse, plans _ for
which are being prepared. It is a curious
fact that the lower end of Port Jackson has
never boasted a rowing club, while there are
over half a dozen located in the upper
portion.
* $ * *
“Shell” : A lot of fuss has been made about
the 15-mile sculling marathon, which was
staged in Sydney last week, but such long
distance journeys were commonplaces in the
old days, many famous scullers of the past
relying on the long-distance work to bring
them the necessary staying power. That
famous N.S.W. oarsman of other days Harry
Haunstein, who rowed in six N.S.W. crews,
including that which won the Grand Chal-
lenge at Henley in 1912, did all his training
in a Gladstone skiff over long distances. H'is
regular daily trip was from Leichhardt club’s
boatshed to Manly and back every afternoon,
a distance of 25 miles. Then, after a shower,
he used to start on his job as a night-duty
policeman. Truly, there were giants in those
days.
* * * *
“Toowong Reach”: “Freddy” de Little,
just elected president of the Commercial
Rowing Club, the senior body of its kind in
Queensland, in succession to J. N. Devoy,
has been sealed to the sport since boyhood.
He first hooked up with the club in 1889,
and became one of the State’s most notable
oarsmen. One of the great moments of his
life was the victory of the Queensland 1891
crew, of which he was a member. It was
Queensland’s third appearance in the event,
and the success of the Northerners followed
on a series of six consecutive Victorian
wins. To cap the triumph, the race was
rowed on Victoria’s own Yai’ra, N.S.W. and
Victoria finishing in that order.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot” : The Australian Tennis Asso-
ciation is to decide in November whether to
challenge for the 1930 Davis Cup. A deci-
sion to the contrary will be most unpopular.
The association has any amount of cash, and
it is beyond doubt that Australia can now
put a team in the field worthy to meet the
best —the form of our lads against the
English team subsequently so successful in
the last Cup series and at Wimbledon shows
this clearly. Apart from Crawford and
Ilopman, there seems to be some doubt as
to the probable personnel. One man who
should certainly be considered is Turnbull,
of South Australia, who is in the front
rank of promising youngsters. The trouble
with him is that he does not get nearly
enough first-class tennis. In America they
take steps to remove this obstacle in the case
of brilliant youngsters. It could be done here
too if those in authority had the courage and
initiative to get out of the trench—it is far
deeper than a rut —-they move in.
“Cash Amateur”: The decision of Les
Baker to become a declared professional
tennis player (B. 25/9/’29) will be wel-
comed byM. O. Anderson, who has ploughed
a lonely furrow ever since he came out into
the open as a paid player. Apart from
coaching, the only tennis worthy of the name
J.O. got was in exhibition matches with
amateurs, permission for which is not easy
to get. Baker is a player worthy of his
steel, and with the ex-champion is now on
an exhibition tour of the country districts of
N.S.W. If the pair make a success of the
venture in Australia, it is possible that
America and Europe, where such players
as Vincent Richards and Kozeluh are to be
met with, will be tackled next.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: The American National
tennis tourney has unearthed a possible
champion in Frank Shields, a 19-year-older
from N’York, who stands 6ft. high and hits
like Gehenna. He gave Tilden a four-set
go to beat him in the singles, the third
set running to 14-12. Shields first came into
notice in last year’s championships, when
he beat Australian Harry Hopman and
Brugnon, giving Cochet, who won the title,
a great battle. Like our own Jack Craw-
ford, he is apt to be erratic, but will pro-
bably grow out of that.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Brassey”: It has been announced that
Walter Hagen will visit Australia in March
in company with Kirkwood. This is the
second time Hagen has undertaken to come
this way, and until he actually sets foot in
terra Australis there must be doubt about
his arrival. Last time he had gone as far
as booking his passage, but backed out at
the last moment. However, arrangements
been made for him to open on Manly links
early in March next. The club intends to
charge for admission, but how it is going
to collect is not quite clear, since it will
be impossible to keep deadheads off the large
unenclosed area. A possible solution sug-
gested is the institution of “capping” those
present, following on the practice in many
of the English subscription hunts.
=J: =S= * *
“The McHaggis”: Several deaths while
playing golf have been reported in Britain
lately, and instances are not unheard of in
Australia. Naturally a controversy has
arisen as to whether the game is not too
strenuous for elderly persons, and especially
those of full habit, though there are scoffers
who refuse for a moment to admit that there
is more danger in golf than there is in run-
ning footraces against snails. As a tempera-
mental person and one who has played the
game for many years, I should say that what
danger there is in it arises from a tem-
pestuous mentality complicated by circum-
stances. The stout and choleric individual
who lias fluffed his tee shot is more likely
to contract an apoplectic fit than his oppo-
nent who holes out in one when playing the
like.
:Ji jJ:
“Divot Digger”: Some time ago a
Bulletin correspondent told of a faithful
bulldog which used to accompany its master
round the links and usually save him from
defeat by swallowing his opponent’s ball.
The yarn is almost paralleled by a reported
happening in America. Lost balls were
becoming too frequent, so a watch was set.
When one long ball from the tee had come
to rest, a bulldog ran out of some adjacent
undergrowth and disappeared into it again
with the ball in his mouth. Instant search
located the dog’s boss with a pocketful of
golf balls. His defence was a sound one.
He pleaded that he was really doing the
players good service, since most of them
showed best when indulging in practice
swings without any ball at all. The judge,
like most folk acquainted with the average
golfer, cordially agreed and let the alleged
sinner off with 10 days.
* * =i= *
“Full Iron” : It is an accepted axiom in
golf that the more clubs a player carries in
his bag, the greater muff he is likely to be.
Most of the old stars stuck to an
average of half a dozen clubs, two woods
and four irons. Writing in the English
Field recently, a correspondent asks very
pertinently why the driver itself should be
dragged in. It is only efficient off the tee.
A properly built brassey can do all in that
respect required of a driver and its own
work through the green as well. Old-time
British professionals used to start their pupils
with two clubs, a brassey and a deck.
By the time the student could employ the
two successfully from driving off to putting,
he was usually on the way to become a
golfer. He learned that it was the player
and not the club that counted.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: The N.S.W. professional
golfers’ championship will be played this
year at Manly from Oct9ber 14 to 19. The
first day will be occupied with qualifying
rounds of 36 holes, and after that the compe-
tition will be decided on the knock-out sys-
tem. Don Spence, who won last year, is now
at Leura, but is expected to defend his title.
Brother A.J., whom he downed in the final,
is now in Victoria with the Yarra Yarra
club, and is not eligible. Frank Eyre, who
did so well in the Australian professional
events in Adelaide, is a warm fancy, for he
is at home on Manly links.
* * * *
“Hoylake” : All experts in golf law —and
it is safe to say that they comprise some
99.999 per cent, of players —will take deep
interest in a case recently quoted, for the
consideration of St. Andrews. Archie Comp-
ston, the English professional, found after
the drive from the tee that his ball had
split. He told the marker that he intended
to change it and did so. The question was
whether or no he should be penalised two
strokes. Compston had omitted to inform
his partner in the round as well, and on
this ground the penalty was claimed. After
much deliberation, St. Andrews has decided
that Compston was right, and that the prize
money for the match, which had been with-
held, should be paid over to him. This is
because the match was stroke play, and
since in that form of golf every player is on
his own, he naturally cannot have a partner
or an opponent to consult regarding the
matter at issue. A delicate technicality.
* * * *
“Tamar”: Golf is notorious for rever-
sals of form, and this was again in evidence
in the Tasmanian amateur championship
played at Launceston last week. Ivo Whit-
ton, who won the recent Australian open title
so convincingly at Adelaide, was a hot
favorite for the event, but finished down the
course. Two Tassies fought out the final,
lefthander Len Nettlefold, holder of the Aus-
tralian amateur championship in 1926, win-
ning from H. P. Smith by the big margin of
S up and 7.
* % * *
“Iconoclast”: At last advices Scottish
restorative was being hastily applied to the
members of the St. Andrews General Pur-
poses Committee, this being necessitated by
the news that the Coombe Hill Club, near
London, has daringly sanctioned the use
of steel-shafted clubs. These, though per-
mitted in America, are anathema to
golfers of that Empire on which the sun
never holes out. Coombe Hill is a very wealthy
and exclusive club with a considerable
American membership. This, no doubt, ac-
counts for the sacrilege, and the worst part
of it is that St. Andrews has no definite
machinery for enforcing its authority.
(Continued on next page.)


a
a
BE*
MOStfg
*
Follow the advice of experienced motorists who
have proved B.E.S. Spark Plugs perfect under
all conditions. Equip your car and ensure
efficient ignition. Fully guaranteed. All garages,
Price 4/6.
Manufactured by
Australian Spark Plugs Pty., Ltd.
562 Spencer Street, Melbourne, C.l.
’Phones: F 4947, F 6961.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.:
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
by using a
m
SAFETY RAZOR BLADE
Made of a special steel with extra keen edges
that last and give more shaves per blade.
For all Gillette and Auto-Strop holders.
Agent for Australia: H. E. UTTLEY,
Margaret House, 282 George Street. Sydney.
Manufactured by Kirby, Beard & Co. . Ltd.,
Needle and Pm Manufacturers,
Ravenhurst Works,
Birmingham,
England.
o
o*
fS&'
&
&r(5
0«
&
Use ci 'BEARD’to shave a heard
Car and Cycle
“Kangaroo Ped”: How to motor without
manslaughter has just been put in evidence
by Dr. Manning, who drove a Chrysler car
from Perth to Sydney in 3 days 22 hours
52 minutes, and not even a goanna run
over. This beats Wizard Smith's previous
best for the transcontinental scoot by nearly
12 hours. When Smith put up his sprint,
the Victorian and N.S.W. police were
talking about stopping this dangerous form
of stunting. That was two years ago, and
the game is still going merrily on with no
apparent effort on the part of authority to
stop it.
* * * *
“Whizz”: N.S.W. Automobile Club, in
conjunction with its little brother of Mudgee,
held a hill-climbing and acceleration test at
Tucker’s Hill, near Mudgee, recently. The
final results show some close finishes, only
.03 of a point separating two of the com-
petitors, J. Shearston (Chrysler) and O.
James (Graham-Paige) in the 2501-4000 c.c.
class. Three possibles were scored, W.
Fairfax getting full marks with his 1505-c.c,
Alvis in class B, and H. Taylor doing like-
wise in the supercharged section with a
1496-c.c Alvis. In class A, for babies, D. H.
Antill also turned the trick in a Riley. A. W.
Turner’s Willys-Knight scored 198.27 points
out of 200 in class C, while F. A. Parle’s
4224 Vauxhall, a well-known performer in
these competitions, totalled 198.62 in the oyer
4000-c.c. class.
=1: * * *
“Yawn”: The latest round-Australia
record has just been perpetrated by F.
Smith and L. Bowers, who negotiated 10.000-
odd miles of the now well-worn track in 78
days with a Harley-Davidson sidecar outfit.
The public, blase nowadays with these con-
tinually recurring performances, lias taken
little interest in the journey.
* * * -.i=
“Sprocket”: Fresh from his triumph in
the Goulburn-to-Sydney road race, that
peerless cyclist Hubert Oppernmn won a
similar event in South Australia a week
later, over 132 miles, from scratch. Giving
65 minutes’ start to some of the competitors,
Opperman repeated his N.S.W. performance,
riding right through his field and winning
hands down. His time was 7hr. 20min.
si: * si: *
“Toeclip”: Hubert Opperman has added
another record to his collection by riding
100 miles on a dirt track at Adelaide in
4hr. 39min. 34sec., which made a big dint
in previous bests, both world and Australian.
The time is 7min. 31 l-ssec. better than the
road (out and back) record put up by Fred
Kerz, of N. S Wales, last year, and track-
riding unpaced is harder than road-riding,
as previous record times for many years
show. Moreover, Opperman battled with a
strong south-easter.
* =S H: *
“Fitzcray”: The revival of the famous
WarrnamboOl-Melbourne road-race is rousing
a lot of interest among Victorian cyclists,
while it is expected that the pick of Aus-
tralasian riders will be represented. The
165-miles spin will be for professionals only,
but a 100-miles event for amateurs from
Colac to Melbourne will be run concurrently.
Over £4OO will go out in prizes, first man
home pouching £75 and the Warrnambool
Cup.
Miscellaneous
“Altcar”: Terminus, the fastest grey-
hound ever slipped in Australia^ —many
claim he was in the world’s champion-
ship class—died last week in Sydney. His
victories included several Victorian and
N.S.W. Waterloo Cups, in addition to pretty
well every other important coursing event
in his native State of N.S.W., and that
across the Murray—he was never started in
South Australia or Queensland. The late
lamented was only six years old at his
demise, but sympathisers feel that his end
was hastened by his entry for two chases
of the tin-hare on one of the Sydney courses
when the now defunct ramp was at its
zenith. He never seemed the same dog
afterwards.
* 1 * * *
“The Gaffer”: A notable relay racing feat
was that of a team from the St. Stephen’s
harriers, of Melbourne, which last week com-
pleted the 564 miles run from Melbourne to
Sydney in 54hr. 56min. 49sec., or well over a
10 m.p.h. average. The racing took place
by day, the team of 20 resting by night,
while the relays, on finishing their appointed
task, were loaded on to following motor-
lorries, and carried to the next stopping
place. The team was ahead of schedule at
every stage, and finished 8 hours to the good
in Sydney.
s|s * * *
“Joystick”: The aeroplane in, its second
decade has shown a wonderful advance in
speed. Prior to 1910 the fastest sustained
flights on record, were those made by Far-
man, whose best time worked out at 36.6
m.p.h. This had been more than doubled
before the Great War broke out, Pixton’s
speed in the 1914 Schneider Cup race (the
1913 affair was almost a fiasco) being 86.8
m.p.h. The 100-m.p.h. mark was reached,
undoubtedly, in war-time, and by 1925 that
had been more than doubled. Now Squadron-
leader Orlebar. has set the main at 355
m.p.h., and the new goal is the 400 mark.
There are experts who say that must be the
limit, but there are others who say that
the ’plane is just commencing to show its
paces.
* * * *
“Slot”: Bleriot, first of fliers to cross
the English Channel, was so impressed with
the race for the Schneider Cup that he has
presented an international trophy for flights
over land. Which means that a race for
’planes built for descending on terra firma
will be bracketed in the future with the
famous seaplane event. It is ill work pro-
phesying in the matter of aviation develop-
ment, but the ’plane that can come to earth
safely at the speeds which the seaplanes
have been putting up has yet to be designed.
* * * *
“Sheer Plan”: That invitation to any
yachting enthusiast with £5OO he didn’t
want to make the money available . for
a third 21ft. restricted-class yacht to defend
N.S.W. interests in the Forster Cup (B.
18/9,/’29) did not fall on deaf ears. One
such, who desires to remain an unknown, has
duly coppered the bet, and the order for
the new craft has already been placed. She
will take the water in six weeks’ time.
* * * *
“Hamilton”: Sydney’s 18-footer fleet has
been joined by a Queensland-built boat, from
the sheds of that famous Brisbane builder
Alf Whereat. The family long ago achieved
an uncanny knack of turning out fliers in the
open-boat classes and has maintained it
over 40 years. In the days of the “22’s”
many champions were constructed, and the
tradition has been kept up in the smaller
classes, as Sydney sailing men have good
cause to know. Great things are expected
from the newcomer, which will be known as
the Kiwi.
=i= * * *
“Bermuda”: That evergreen sportsman
Thomas Lipton is going to have one more
shy, his fifth, at lifting the America Cup.
He says that his new yacht will not be a
racing freak, like her predecessors, but will
conform to Lloyds’ conditions. That seems
to make the old Tea and Bacon King’s chance
look remoter than ever. The conditions
make it absolutely necessary that the challen-
ger should attempt to “outfreak” the freaks
built to meet her. Yet that is impossible,
for she must be built stiffly enough to stand
the Atlantic voyage, a task the present class
of defenders, specially built to skim over
the summer waters of Long Island Sound,
would be incapable of performing,
* * *
“Ped”: Sydney is very badly off for sports
grounds. A big advance will be made if the
Water and Sewerage Board can be per-
suaded to hand over its long-disused sewage-
farm at Botany for a sports area. It
hardly suggests itself as an eligible building
site, and 234 acres converted into sporting
arenas would do a lot to relieve the conges-
tion on such playing spaces as Moore Park.
The N.S.W. Polo Association has already
acquired some of the oid farm for a head-
quarters ground, and the Cricket Associa-
E. K. WHITE, who owns Winalot and
Leadight.
tion has also applied for 36 acres. The hurdle
in the path is the increasing demand in
Botany for land for industrial purposes.
’ * * *
“Pink Bar”: That Port Kembla homer-
pigeon did not hold his speed-record long (B.
25/9/’29). The following week four birds
from another N.S.W. club, Gwynneville, beat
his 3547 yards a minute comfortably. Three
of them 'topped the 3700-yards mark, the
winner being clocked as travelling 3771-
yards per minute, or 128.9 m.p.h., as against
the Kembla fowl’s 122 m.p.h. It sounds too
good to be true, but the figures and times
have been checked and re-checked without
altering the result, which, is far ahead of
any other recorded performance anywhere.
J $ * ❖ Hs
“Amateur Pro.”: It is announced that the
Australian Amateur Sporting Federation,
which has been in a cataleptic condition for
some time, is to be revived and set to the
task of clearly defining the amateur status.
What a job lies ahead of it can be seen in
a statement by a Sydney journal that the
Rugby Union will be “forced” to modify, its
rule declaring footballers playing a profes-
sional code ipso facto professionals. That
alone is a handful. Not only will the various
Australian branches of the union have to be
subjected to the “forcing” process, but those
of Maoriland, South Africa, Canada, Eng-
R. L. JONES, N.S.W. representative on the
Australian Eleven selection committee.
land, Ireland, Wales, Scotland and France
into the bargain, to say nothing of minor
bodies such as Spain and the Argentine.
* * * :S
“Backwoodsman”: Things are umpty-doo
in the N.S.W. bowling cosmos. The attempt
by certain varlets to introduce the district-
club system in the game is the cause. The
groundlings who affect cricket, football and
similar sports have found this system satis-
factory, but the bowls oligarchy stands pat
for the constitution, which dates from the
golden age of Sir John Young. There is
something in the claim of the diehards. Under
the club system one can always be moderately
sure that an undesirable person wall be black-
balled out. Under a district system any
person with a propensity for bowls would
be eligible for membership. Even a prohi-
bitionist could not be barred, and to all true
bowlers the very thought is anathema.
t- * ; i : *
“Old Q.”: A Queensland journal has been
discussing the period during which Rugby
footballers retain first-cifiss form. Investi-
gation showed that a number of leading
players in the northern State had runs of
from 7to 10 years in first-class football. The
bell is borne away by J. S. Anderson, a
Maorilander who played most of his foot-
ball in Queensland. Beginning his inter-State
career in 1883, he played against all-comers
up to 1891. Then he went to Charters
Towers and carried on there. Returning to
the inter-State field in 1895, he wore the
maroon jersey for the two following years,
and then called it a day, after 25 inter-
state and international games against M.L.
and N.S.W.
* si: * *
“Splash”: It looks as if Australia will
not see Zorilla and the American swimmers
in action this summer, as was expected. The
question of expenses, has been complicated
by the recent ruling of the Federation de
Natation Amateur forbidding the payment of
the 55.-a-day pocket-money allowance to
touring swimmers, though the Amateur
Federation permits it in other sports. As
the Australian Amateur Swimming Associa-
tion puts it, only swimmers of independent
means are now able to undertake long .tours.
This was evident when that eminent ama-
teiy Arne Borg visited this country last
year. He travelled en prince, and by his
exhibitions brought many shekels to the
coffers of Australian swimming bodies.
* * * *
“Nix Mangery”: An unusual swimming
record has been claimed by one Rizzo, a
Maltese amateur, who says he kept going in
the open sea for 62 hours 1 minute. Captain
Webb remained afloat for 60 hours, but in an
enclosed bath, in 1880. Among the women,
an American matron is credited with 561irs.
56min. afloat, but that was in a bath also.
Two Queensland girls, wrecked in the Quetta
in northern waters nearly 40 years ago, kept
going until they were rescued, one being
credited with some 30 hours and the other
with as much as 48, though the times could
only be estimated.
Business, Robbery, etc.
♦
“Gold Lip”: North Queensland shellers
have been greatly bucked by the discovery
of new pearl-shell beds some 40 miles
south-west of Wallace Island. Torres Strait.
The beds are of considerable extent, and
the shell is thick upon them in workable
water. Big catches are being landed at
Thursday.
* * * *
“Salambo”: Maoriland is sending stud
sheep away, too. The Kia Ora lately took a
consignment of Romney rams and ewes and
Lincoln rams for the Argentine, and another
lot of Romney rams for Uruguay. They
were all bred at Clydevale, Otago, and were
not the first of the -flock to go to S. America.
i\i % ❖ ❖
“Sandfly”: Some of the jobs Lizzie is
called upon to do in Australia would probably
surprise even ITenry Ford. In the Pilliga dis-
trict (N.S.W.) an enterprising settler has
attached an old T-model truck body, with
front wheels removed, as a trailer to a new
Model A 30-cwt. truck. On this outfit he
Carts huge loads of cypress-pine logs over
loose sand. It would be reckoned a still
contract by most truck experts if only a
capacity load were carried, but the Pilliga
chap cheerfully piles on seven tons —and
gets through with it.
“Joe Daggs”: Residents of King and
Flinders Islands are making a fuss because
the Speck Government sold the last of the
State steamers, the Tambar and the Colloboi,
to Holymans, but they have largely themselves
to blame. Governor O’Grady, during a recent
visit, told the Flinders people that they ought
to be doing like the inhabitants of the Scilly
Islands —not taking in each other’s washing,
but supplying early vegetables and other pro-
duce to the neighboring markets. The sole
cargo of the ship on its return trip to Laun-
ceston was a yearling bull, a bag of carrots
and a goose.
* * * *
“Ex-Loco”: There is nothing new about
the prompt dispatch of wool from Vic.
stations (B. 18/9/’29) ; delay en route
caused by the full-load system has been the
trouble. At depot stations there is dallying
until trainloads accumulate. As engines
increase in size, this (to customers) objec-
tionable feature of modern railway practice
naturally becomes worse. To combat motor
traffic, not only prompt dispatch, but also
prompt delivery at the terminating station,
must be a major consideration as regards all
general loading.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: A spruiker worth listening
to stands outside a haberdashery store in
Melbourne. Holding up a glove he exhorted
passers-by to regard its extraordinary cheap-
ness. “Only half a crown a pair,” he
shouted; “only about a penny a finger!'
This particular shop was running a fire-sale.
“It’s our anniversary fire-sale,” the gentleman
confided to the crowd.
* * * *
“Trefaldwyn” : A tea firm broadcast out-
back little packets of tea-dust and store-
sweepings, explaining in an accompanying
circular that it did not allow that muck into
its blends, but rivals did. My experience
of buyers’ psychology is that at least three
recipients out of four would, despite the
explanation, jump to the conclusion that the
packet was a genuine sample of the firm’s
goods. You have to dot every “i” and cross
every “t” in dealing with the buying public.
* * * *
“Caveman”: After several years of nego-
tiation, the timber-country round Mt. Tong-
ariro (M.L.) has been released by the
Maori owners and made available for the
white man. Tongariro is a sacred mountain,
and the lifting of the tapu was a great and
unusual occasion. The tribe concerned is the
Ngati Tewharetoa, and the Otokou Timber
Company has signed agreements to pay the
native owners royalty, as well as a share in
the profits, and to employ natives where prac-
ticable. On the opening-day at the mill
there was a pig korero. The mill was started
with a great totara log, totara being the tree
of the chiefs. There’s enough timber in
sight for 10 years’ work.
* * * *
“Claude W” : The unattended automatic
light is becoming a feature on the Queens-
land coast. Two were lately installed on
Russell Island and Little Fitzroy Island, be-
tween Townsville and Cairns. In both cases
the services of a lightkeeper have been dis-
pensed with. An attendant will make periodi-
cal visits to keep an eye on the mechanism.
* * * *
“Murkah”: “Bligh Street,” who pleads for
higher buildings in Australian cities
(B. 28/8/’29), might reflect that Americas
skyscrapers mean scores of deaths every year.
I was in Chicago in 1923 when 80 girls,
trapped during a fire, came hurtling down to
the pavement from 20 storeys up. Allegedly
these steel and concrete structures won r
burn. But there is always sufficient inflam-
mable material about any tall building to
make the situation unbearable for those
caught in the top storeys.


The Joys of
Motor Camping
Are Yours at a Small Cost!
Spend your Holidays and Week-ends
in Nature’s Surroundings
ENJOY to the Full—Fresh Air, Scenery, Fishing, Shooting,
Swimming and Surfing, etc. Secure your Auto Tent and
Camping Equipment NOW. Use it and be Healthy throughout
the whole of the Summer.
G
Si
ft
►
OLD
I
KAR
KAMP
Zkpl
The Gold-O Kar-Kamp Tent.
Made from best-quality English Waterproof
Duck.
A MOTOR TENT YOU CAN STAND
UPRIGHT IN ALL PARTS.
Complete with Telescopic Poles Spliced Guy
Ropes and Steel Pegs. NO EXTRAS TO BUY.
One Compartment a Garage to completely
cover Car, and the other a large Living Room,
Partition between
GOLD-O KAR-KAWP
TE.NT&&
Single-sided Gold-0 Kar-Kamp Tents
As illustrated.
Size, 12 x 12. Top 15oz. Waterproof White Duck;
Walls, 9oz. Duck
Size, 14 x 14. Top, 15oz. Waterproof White Duck;
Walls, 9oz. Duck .
£9/10/-
£l2/10/-
Double-sided Gold-0 Kar-Kamp Tents
With Garage and two Living Compartments. Partitions between.
Size, 20 x 12. Top, 15oz. Waterproof White Duck;
Walls, 9oz. Duck
Size, 20 x 15. Top, 15oz. Waterproof White Duck;
Walls, 9oz. Duck
£l7/10/-
£l9/19/-
AUTO TENTS—
Complete
with Telescopic Poles; Spliced Guy
Ropes and Pegs. NO EXTRAS TO
BUY. Easily erected or dismantled in
1 0 minutes.
■
SINGLE-SIDED AUTO TENTS, with sleeping compartment on each side.
Size—Width, 13ft. Width, 13ft.
Quality. Depth, 12ft. Depth, 15ft.
Soz. English Waterproof, Duck Top £5/17/6 £6/15/-
15oz. English Waterproof Duck Top £B/8/- £9/10/-
DOUBLE-SIDED AUTO TENTS, with sleeping compartments on each side.
Size—Width, 20ft. Width, 20ft.
Quality. Depth, 12ft. Depth, 15ft.
9oz. English Waterproof, Duck Top £B/10/- £9/10/-
15oz. English Waterproof, Duck Top £l3/10/- £l5/5/-
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIINillllllllllHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlifllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllt!’
MOTOR-CAR COVERS
Made from waterproof materials. Also Size —12 xl6 14 xlB 15 x2O
waterproof covers for cars that are Heavy Calico . . 22/6 30/- 37/6
left in the open. They can save you A.A. Cloth .. .. 37/6 47/6 57/6
pounds in hood repairs and re- 9oz. Duck .. .. 55/6 71/6 77/6
painting. lsoz. Duck . . . . 75/- 98/- 119/6
Freight Extra on Canvas Goods and Camping Equipment.
GOLDMAN & C° L TD
TENT SPECIALISTS,
220 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Just below Bridge Street),
Also at 475 GEORGE STREET (Queen Victoria Markets).
Write for Complete Illustrated Catalogue of Camping Equipment.
m
"" : 3r>- :» 5 i d.
KM
'
/
/
Dependable !
SINCE 1916 Delco-Light has been pre-eminent in
the home-lighting field, and to-day there are more
Delco-Light plants in use than all others com-
bined.
Model 778 is a new Delco-Light plant combining the
advantages of an automatic and a battery-charging
electric-light plant. All loads below 200 watts are
supplied from the battery, and larger loads auto-
matically start the generator, which continues to run
until the load falls again to 200 watts.
When you instal an electric-light plant you expect to
have electricity twenty-four hours each day for 365
days each year. That is just what Model 778 will
give you. In addition to being economical in opera-
tion, quiet running and beautiful in appearance, it
is above all dependable .
The installation of a Delco-light plant not only gives
you electric light in every room at the touch of a
switch; it enables you also to employ such labor-
saving devices as a pump washing machine, electric
iron and vacuum cleaner. Above all, you can enjoy
the advantages and comforts of Frigidaire—per-
manent electric refrigeration.
Model 778 is only one of a large number of Delco-
Light models. Write for Booklet B and you will
receive particulars of the full range.
4
Distributors:—
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.—
307-15 Kent Street, Sydney
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.—
380-82 Bourko Street, Melbourne
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.—
233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD.—
172-74 Pulteney Street, Adelaide
STEWART & MACLEAN PTY., LTD.—
104 George Street, Launceston
DELCO - LIGHT
Product of General Motors.


XL
T 1
V
Kt J
2S
ZA
ZA
CEACy fCE THE ECAD
X V '7%
\"'yt ''/.
1 :A I.
. i\^l : -:is%
;hi \
//i■ ; L ; I /’ /
/Vx li/htx
CX7L« U i '■:%■
f' //' V- X V
1/ :
! /, 1 , \ >•
WH'VXt
ill \ l>
\\ I
EVERY Nash on the salesroom floor is fully equipped
from bumpers to tyre locks. There are no “extras”
to buy.
Mechanical advantages of the Nash “400” include high
turbulence, high compression, 7-bearing crankshaft mo-
tors which add to power, speed, smoothness and fuel
economy.
Outboard mounted hydraulic shock absorbers cushion
every road. Individually designed springs add a new degree
of comfort. A new steering mechanism provides effortless
driving control.
New beauty without affectation is expressed in long, low-
swung classic lines. Colours are smart and in good taste.
Upholstery, of richest materials, is tailored faultlessly.
There is an elegance throughout comparable only to that
of cars which cost much more. 7
TOURERS.
Standard Six from £375
Special Six from £4BO
Advanced Six from £63o*
é
Body.
Distributors Jor New South Wales
WILLSFORD, LTD.,
132-134 Phillip Street,
SYDNEY.
’Phones: 8W2291 (5 lines).
Distributors for Victoria and Tasmania
RICKARDS BROS. PTY., LTD.,
567*573 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
’Phone: F 3114.
Distributors for Queensland and Northern Rivers
PEELS, LTD.,
407-431 Stanley Street,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
'Phone: J 1561.
Distributors jor South Australia and Broken Hill
AUTOCARS, LTD.,
58*72 Flinders Street,
ADELAIDE.
’Phone: Central 5500.
Distributors for West Australia:
ERIC MADDREN MOTORS, LTD.,
996 Hay Street,
PERTH.
’Phones: 85610, 87634.
TASMANIAN DEALERS:
THE SERVICE CO. OF TASMANIA, 56 Paterson Street, Launceston.
E. MEERMANN, 135 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
BENNETT & GILBERT, Best Street, Devonport.
NASH 21011"
Leads the World in Motor Car Value
(32-844)


7hp cen/re of Queens /onc/s
cf/sLnguisfooat Soc/o/Life.
Wotel
BRISBANE
Magnificent Bai i-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal ol
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
e
r Alert Attention to Your Needs. ..
-Am THOUGHT UPON YOUR COMFORT
is the policy that has placed the Wentworth in the front
rank of Australian hotels. Efficiently managed under the
personal direction of Mrs. H. Maclurcan, it is the centre
of all smart gatherings and the chosen rendezvous of the
leaders in Society.
They appreciate, from personal experience, the real ser-
vice, the luxurious comfort and excellent cuisine for
which the Wentworth definitely sets a standard of
quality. Wire or Write for reservations.
Qhe Wentworth
/ Church Hill,
Sydney.
IV
Iondet>
/Royal
Jfl&rrant
è
ToH.ML
Kin£
George V
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
CtUMPAGH*
'IEIMS
**•%«*
Wwirgy
PELLISSOIM
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrens—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
Kayser
SHEER
CHIFFON
SILK
STOCKINGS
“Race Week will put a curl into our
tail,” this Letter has said or had said to it
a hundred times in the past dull, lank fort-
night. But, after all, Race Week is Society’s
week, and “Society” is only a little bit of
the city’s life. The woman in the street
doesn’t get mucli of a kick out of the
knowledge that Bellevue Hill and Darling
Point are hanging out their glad awnings.
But Sydney, pulsing, busy Sydney, knows
where to find its own gaiety and it doesn’t
depend on invitation cards a foot square.
Hundreds every day, man, woman and pagan,
go a-Maying with the peach-trees in the
Gardens, great spikes of blossom standing
in friendly, nodding, understanding neighbor-
liness with the flowering plum. Down one
path drops a screen of wistaria shot through
by light and breeze. Broad beds of velvet
pansies spin drowsy laughter through the
air.
It was close to one of these roguish beds
this Letter saw on a blue and gold morning
last week a girl and a boy stop and swiftly
kiss, and out of the corner of its eye watched
to see how its neighbor would view the
action. The neighbor was a heavy, swarthy
woman in the fifties, her shoulders wrapped
in a bunny coat, her feet in burst shoes.
She watched the two and turned with a slow
smile that, reaching her eyes, stayed there
and burned. She said a few words that
sounded like a Greek quotation. This Letter
smiled in reply, and later in the day, remem-
bering the sound of them, repeated the words
to an old scholar who gives lessons in
ancient Greek and Hebrew for a fee so
small that it would be an insult to mention
it at Randwick in a race week. “Yes,” he
said. It means: “I too was once in Arcady!”
The rain that swept across two States last
week made all the difference between butter
and dripping for the next 32 months in
thousands of inland homes. ' Exactly how
far it will be possible for some of the wilted
wheat crops in South Australia to recover
only the next week or two can show; but
over most of the Central State and our own
there was enough glorious rain to mean
salvation in many cases and reprieve in
most of the rest.
Around the city the showers washed clean
the flower-jewels that now spangle French’s
Forest and other reserves. The wild boronia
was out in its glory, and sent up a scented
song of thanksgiving. Only the wattle,
mostly getting to the end of its glory, wore
a draggled look; and in the cultivated gar-
dens the wistaria spread a mauve carpet
for the shadows of its new foliage to play
upon. Thousands of cars idled through
French’s Forest at the week-end. But the
word had been well spread that the . police
were on the watch for wild-flower plunderers.
The only safe thing to assume about any
wild flower at present is that the plucking
of it is prohibited.
Hundreds of good little Catholic girls
spent last week-end letting down the hems
of their frocks, perhaps sighing a bit as they
mentally subscribed themselves “Yours
obediently” in reply to Archbishop Kelly’s
Pastoral Letter. Whether when the summer
days come with whirling chiffons and frag-
rant fabrics they will feel inclined to take
up a tuck or two from the prescribed length
is yet to be seen. If they do will they be
as conscience-stricken as the little Quaker
girl who sewed a tuck into her gown, and
on the way to the meeting-house heard every
sparrow chirp “Tuck, tuck!” heard every
grunt and every cluck from the open barn-
door translated into “Tuck a tuck!” till
finally in a chastened spirit she returned
home and took the tuck out of her gown !
During last week the Catholic Women’s
Association had a mannequin parade of day
frocks and evening frocks built according to
Episcopal design. The day frocks were quite
smart, and really the absence of'thigh bones
from the scenery when the wearers sat down
was rather a relief. As contended by this
Letter a long time ago, the female knee is
a nobbly affair, and for one pair of Dolly
Dimples there’s a plethora of great chunky
joints, whose ugliness is only intensified by
sheer silk. The evening frocks didn’t appear
quite so classy. An evening frock with
sleeves, even little sleeves, ceases to be an
evening frock and becomes a less formal
garment. The length w 7 as all right—just
about the last word from Paris. But what
Messieurs Worth and Reville will say to
this matter of Church dignitaries breaking
out as dress-designers this Letter can’t think.
Anyway, it’s no worse than Dean Inge
drawing his clerical pay as well as doing
some honcst-to-goodness journalist out of a
job.
Sydney Jewry is talking about moving its
retreat for the aged, the Sir Moses Monte-
fiore Jewish Home, from its expensive Belle-
vue Hill location to some countrified area
where the inmates, if they wish, can possess
a cow of their own, potter amongst the vege-
tables, and maybe even keep a bee. The
Jews are jealous of the race’s reputation for
looking after their own poor, and the fact
that the present home cannot accommodate
all the applicants for admission is causing
perturbation. The directors of the home
bought well when, about seven years ago,
they purchased the Bellevue Hill property;
its sale will enable them to secure a good
block of land further out and build a new
home to order.
Quite an exalted job will be open for
some clever and enterprising woman if the
proposed amalgamation of four of Sydney’s
leading women’s organisations comes .to
pass. The Women’s League, Women’s Service
Club, Women’s Voters’ Association and Femi-
nist Club cover much the same ground in
social and philanthropic work, and the mem-
bers of one are in many eases members of
the four. Three of the societies are as willin’
as Barkis; the Feminists won’t be quite
sure until after the third of this month. The
Women’s League, the oldest of the four, is
now 28, and has capable Mrs. A. V. Roberts
as president. Mrs. Dougall Laing leads
the Service Club, while the Voters banded
together only last year and have Mrs. Albert
Littlejohn for their president.
We’re in trouble again. A few months ago
they discovered that we were responsible
for the woes of our poor wool-growers ; we’d
cut too many inches off our skirts, and taken
to silk for stockings and the rest instead of
sticking to wool. Now, according to Pro-
fessor H. L. Russell, Dean of the Wisconsin
University, our “stream-line waist” is starv-
ing the poor wheat farmer. “ ‘Slenderising,’
so fashionable in certain circles,” he thunders,
“is materially reducing the per capita use
of food. The stream-line waist is bad for the
American farmer.” And if for the American
of course for the Australian also. But, just
like these professors, he didn’t suggest a cure.
Obviously when Colonel Somerville drafts the
schedule for the next Easter Show, he should
cut out all the silly prizes for fat bullocks
and pigs, and instead offer championships
for prime farm-fed females at various ages.
When every other agricultural society in the
land has joined in, and the average girth has,
say, doubled, even the wool-growers may find
that they have been saved from starvation,
too.
The girl in this picture, Phyllis Shillito,
is doing her bit to revive the ancient glory
of the embroidery needle. She has worked
three glowing examples; the simplest of
them took four
months in the
creating. They
are. from her
own design—
an altar cloth,
an exquisite
bit of Persian
color work in
which bulbuls
and roses fly
and inter-
twine, and a
piece in the
Jacobean man-
ner, worked in
colored wool On
Irish linen, in
which fruits
and flowers
blend their
colors. There
are nearly
100 different
stitches in this
last piece. The altar-cloth, with its gold
Byzantine cross standing out against the
noonday sun, is for the most part in couch-
ing, a stitch that is worked over and over till
the design, raised and impressive, seems to
spring at vou. By profession Phyllis is a
teacher of design at the Sydney Tech., to
which she came from the Winchester Art
School by way of the Brisbane Tech. The
needlework is one of the occupations of her
hours off. Etching and painting and golf
are others.
There are 800 people in Sydney willing
to dance all night in the interests of what
they consider the most maligned dog of all.
They did so one night last week, and the
proceeds of a heavily packed Palais will go
to support a campaign in defence of the
Alsatian. Charles Pinkerton Rhoda, an
Alsatian whose manners would fit Bucking-
ham Palace, and whose value is about £5OO,
viewed the proceedings with quiet intentness
from his master’s loge. An Alsatian puppy
and a Persian kitten, like a ball of spun
silk were among the prizes for the guessing
competitions: they were the gifts of Mr.
and Mrs. Yermuellen. Actor Leon Gordon
and Mrs. Gordon were among the dancers;
and Mrs. H'arry Daley, the organiser of the
success, and her doctor; and president Mrs.
Rupert Symons; and the daughters of Mrs.
Norman Cohen, the untiring secretary, who
couldn’t be present herself. And of them all
the eye lingered most easily on slim Peggy
Dawes in her white *moire and tulle.
Over six hundred dancers stormed the
Wentworth in the interests of the Balmain
and District Hospital, and treasurer Mrs.
P. Harris and secretary Mrs. Les Dumbrell
wore the proud smile that goes with the
knowledge that all expenses are paid before
the great night. Matron M. Stewart, radiant
in mingled lime georgette and black lace,
the flowing peacock skirt of which was pat-
terned with gold thread, entertained a party
which included the Mayor and Mayoress of
Balmain. President of the committee H.
Hawkins brought Mrs. Hawkins in pale
green taffetas. Mayoress of Drummoyne Mrs.
W. F. Udall, who was president of the
ladies’ committee, wore handsome raiment of
black georgette and lace. Secretary Mrs.
Dumbrell was smart in coin-spotted net,
and treasurer Mrs. Percy Harris wore an
outfit of palest pink chiffons. Nurses and
resident doctors formed jolly parties, and
there was an abundance of the balloons and
whistles indispensable to the grown-up junk-
etings of 1929.
Leonie Bond, the damsel in this May
Moore picture, has a genius for organising.
The Gir 1 s’
Second ary
Schools’ Club
had its birth
in her fertile
brain. Old
pupils from
every second-
ary school in
Sydney are on
its list of
members; by
the end of this
year their
number is ex-
pected to ex-
ceed 700. Its
founder is
naively proud
that this
club started
off with a
bathroom, as
well as assem-
bly rooms. ...
There are women’s clubs and societies m
the city of quite a mature age that are
minus not only a bathroom but a perma-
nent home for the members. While doing
her work for the club the energetic young
thing found time to be organising secretary
for the International Ball, which was the
outstanding success of last month.
That great classic “I’ve a Rainbow Round
My Shoulder” must have! made its mark on
the Masons of this city. At their dance
the other night a fountain jetting rainbow
waters was the unique attraction of the ball-
rooin; and flood-lights arched the exterior
of the building with a rainbow effect. A
rainbow means hope, and the dance means
a fresh sprout of it for many who have fallen
on hard times, as the gate money goes to
the Freemasons’ Benevolent Fund. Over
200 went to the ball, which was a kind of
house-warming of the new club in Castle-
reagh-street. As a souvenir, each fair took
home a tiny gilded compact. President of
the club H. L. Askey and Mrs. Askey did
the honors, she in primrose georgettes
sprayed with crystal. In their party was
that pillar of the brotherhood John Goulston
with his wife, whose black georgettes shim-
mered with silver sequins. Beaded and
sequinned frocks were the popular wear, and
soft satin and velvet the most favored fabrics?.
The two big bridge-parties of the week
were rallied in the cause of the Kindergarten
Union and Newington College Parents’ and
Friends’ Association. The first was at Far-
mer’s, and spoke volumes for the ability and
industry of organiser Enid Linton. The
second' filled David Jones’s cardroom, and
was the harvest from the sowing of treasurer
Mrs. Halse Rogers and secretary Mrs. W.
H. Bett.
The Old Sydney Hospitallers is the city’s
latest club. The members, past “residents”
of Sydney Hospital, came with their friends
to the Ambassadors in such complete amia-
bility that the chief amusement of the night
was the wafting of love-darts from one table
to another. These darts, blown from pipes,
were messages of sentiment such as the
valentine of old carried to the girl or boy
of one’s heart. Dr. Bohrsmann and Dr.
Steigard and the hospital’s matron Kellett
were mainly responsible for the success.
Other celebrities were president of the club
Dr. Charles Winston; the Cecil Pursers,
who represented Prince Alfred’s; and Dr.
Archie Aspinall and Mrs. Aspinall, who came
to represent the board. The superintendent,
Dr. A. R. H. Duggan, was host to a group
of brother medicine-men and their minister-
ing angels.
When Sylvia Lundgren married Lieut.
Hans Sundstrom, of the Swedish Navy,
there was, of course, a Gustav in the picture
—Gustav Lundgren, who best-manned. The
bride, the pretty eldest daughter of Captain
A. E. Lundgren, shimmered up St. James’s
in ivory satin trailing clouds of glory in the
way of white and pink tulle veil and train.
Her pink satin shoes were exactly the same
note as the pink camellias that snuggled
amid the pink peach-blossom in her arms.
The royal blue of which we are going to
see so much this season was worn by sister
Elsie, who allied pink flowers with her brides-
maid chiffons. And there were choral out-
bursts and masses of pink and white blossom.
Bride’s parents staged the reception at their
Drummoyne home, and to-morrow Mrs. Hans
Sundstrom sails with her bridegroom for
Europe.
Two well-known North-side families got
tangled in matrimony when Dorothy Alcorn,
daughter of the late Dr. Alcorn, of Rose-
ville, became Mrs. Gerald Keith Connell. St.
Philip’s, on Church Hill, supplied the mar-
riage certificate to a snow-white bride, who
was attended by two rose-red ’maids. Keith
Body best-manned, and the cake was dis-
membered at the Wentworth.
Joyce Howes, looking like a sugar-plum
angel emerging from a frock of pink fairy-
floss, blew into St. Mark’s out of the cold-
ness of Wednesday night. Friends occupied
the best seats of the Darling Point marriage-
smithy and supplied the subdued sibilants
of admiration when the bride* in her layers
of pink tulle, passed to the altar on the arm
of her brother. Over 100 yards of tulle
went to the fashioning of that frock, and
down the back of it fell a cascade of pink
veiling that flowedt off into) a train. Orchids
supplied an accompaniment. The bridegroom
was Pat Tallis, second son of theatrical
knight George, and he stood up to the vows
in sheep’s clothing, very well tailored, look-
ing as amiable and contented as a wolf-cub
on a world jamboree. Gwen Marshall played
a solo hand as bridesmaid. Her apricot georg-
ettes were stiff with crystal embroideries,
her hat was an exotic straw in the same
toning, and the sophistication of green
orchids and the artlessness of mignonette
were mingled in her bouquet. Tom Vincent
best-manned. The inimitable Australia
served the toasts, and Brisbane the gorgeous
will supply the honeymoon.
Ena Berry, the Manly girl who returned
from Europe early in the year bringing a
priceless cargo of furs and frocks and laces,
is now able to utilise the trousseau which
at the time was the talk of Flapperdom.
Last week Ena, now Mrs. Lee Ryder, was
farewelled just before departing by the Kaga
Maru for a honeymoon in what grandma
called the Far East. The party was a sort
of delayed reception after the very simple
and quiet wedding at St. Hilda’s in
Katoomba early in September. Bride’s
mother and father presided over a friendly
wedding-feast at Romano’s, keyed also on
a quiet note. Mrs. Lee Ryder sparkled in
a frock of stiff white taffetas; her ’maid,
Betty Buchanan, turned out in a spreading
rose-pink frock; and Mrs. Berry’s black laces
provided a striking foil to both of them.
Meg, eldest of the pretty Coyle sisters, is
flashing a ring. Her diamonds came from
Owen Allan Jones, of Clifton Gardens.
Before this Letter puts on its week’s coat-
ing of rouge, Eleanor Wheeler, the attrac-
tive young daughter of Sun magnate For-
dyce Wheeler, will have married George
Cohen, eldest son of S. S. Cohen, of Wool-
lahra, and grandson of that devout disciple
of the Synagogue George Judah Cohen.
Mrs. Throssell (Katharine Prichard),
whose “Coonardoo” gained a first prize _in
The Bulletin’s First Novel Competition
and has been so enthusiastically received
by the critics in Britain, has been filling a
few more notebooks while circumnavigating
Australia. When this Letter heard from her
she was at the Raffles at Singapore ; and “the
reality of Malaya is better than the dream.”
She planned to leave by the Dutch linar
Nieuw Zeeland, and should be in Sydney
next week.
“How far is St. Helena from a little child
at play?” sings Rudyard Kipling with his
eye on Napoleon. But how far is a bungalow
at Leura from an established foothold on the
high peaks of the English peerage? Just a
stone’s-throw, as proved by Lady George
Sholto Douglas, who was just a few years
ago popular Mrs. Mendelssohn Pickles, of
the Blue Mountain township. Lady George
Sholto Douglas registered one morning last
week at the Australia. She is back in Sydney
for a short visit, and leaves again for Van-
couver on October 18 to look in on a son who
is settled in British Columbia. Then she
travels on to France to rejoin her husband.
Emily Cruise, 8.A., who in 1020 became
head-mistress of the Fort-street Girls’ High,
last week put aside her dominie’s cap and
gown. Before taking charge of Fort-street,
which is the blue-ribbon job among women
teachers, Miss Cruise was at St George;
in earlier days Petersham and Cleveland-
street Intermediates and Cook’s Hill High,
at Newcastle, all knew her as their Head.
Miss Cruise herself was trained at West
Maitland High, and Director of Education
S. H. Smith was one of her instructors —
his specialty then was mathematics.


V 3
%
SHE
ft
HI
Your Home
Made Beautiful
ps
1
±
rn
m
V.W:
The
Decorative
Value
of
Wallpapers
A visit to either our Sydney or Melbourne Wallpaper Showrooms not only
means seeing the latest and really Artistic Wallpapers—you’ll find there is
Educational Value in the various displays, and our Staff have instructions
to help clients in every way possible. There are great possibilities with
our Wallpapers, and the Homelover who is striving for the very best in
Interior Decoration would find a visit to our Beautiful Showrooms both
profitable and enjoyable.
Q,
■mum
limn
&SON
riuimmiiiima
• I.TD
PTY.
animmimifm
I JOHN
nnimmiiiiimni'
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
I
m
<V
Also ask about othei
Winchester Flashlights
serviceable, durable,
dependable and adap •
ted to every use.
Light Wherever You
Turn Your Eyes
COMFORTABLY fastened to your hat or
forehead by a wide web elastic band,
this unique Winchester Flashlight turns
with your head, tilts at any desired angle
and throws its light wherever you turn
your head. Current is supplied through a
flexible cord connecting with a standard
Winchester Flashlight Battery in a special
case that slips into your pocket or clips to
your belt, thus leaving you both hands
free. An ideal light for farmers, mechan-
ics, doctors, dentists, bandsmen, motorists,
sportsmen and all others who need light
while using both their hands.
WINCHESTER REPEATING
ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A. . i 9
TVINCHCSTIR
TRADE MARK
■m HEADLIGHT I
Forster’s Steel Products
'a
mi
The Interior can be fitted with
Shelves, Dividers, etc. The
surfaces are finished in olive-
green enamel, oven baked,
ensuring absolute freedom from
rust. These cabinets should
be an acquisition to any room.
FORSTER’S ADJUSTABLE STEEL SHELVING
STRONGER THAN WOOD
HANDSOME AND BUSINESSLIKE
Forster’s Steel Shelving is proving ideal equipment in
Factories, Wholesale and Retail Stores,
Motor Supply Houses, Banks, Libraries,
Hospitals, Book Shops, Music Shops,
Offices and Strongrooms.
Forster’s Adjustable Steel Shelving is adaptable to the storage of any line of business,
and will last indefinitely. Suggestions, drawings, quotations on request.
Seven parts make endless combinations to suit present and future needs as storage
alters or space is changed. It can be moved as easily as other furniture and be
adjusted as required. We keep a wide range of sizes in stock.
Saves space, time, loss from fires, pests, taint.
it
mm
’LL
msa
Forster’s Bedsteads Ltd
MARY ANN STREET, ULTIMO, SYDNEY.
'Phone: M 4247 (3 lines).


&•/£***
v .N
S> -C
s#
*?% W 1
v«
0 s -
Accommodation
160.
Central,
Comfortable,
Convenient,
5 Mts. G.P.O.
Excellent
Cuisine,
Billiards,
Dancing.
ORIENTAL HOTEL
(No License)
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
TARIFF:
Weekly,
£3/3/- to
£4/4/-
Daily,
11/6 to 12/6.
Room & B’fast,
8/6 to 9/6
FL2034
F 3575
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
THE WORLD’S LARGEST COMMERCIAL FORESTRY CO.
SUBSCRIBED SHARE CAPITAL £240,718
SUBSCRIBED BOND CAPITAL £3,400,000
FUNDS LODGED WITH TRUSTEES £380,000
BANKERS—THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND AND THEIR AGENTS.
SOLE BROKERS—SMITH, WYLIE AND CO., LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN BRANCHES AT MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE,
PERTH, HOBART AND NEWCASTLE.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCHES—AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH AND DUNEDIN.
AND AT 36-38 NEW BROAD STREET, LONDON, E.C.2; JOHANNESBURG. SOUTH AFRICA ;
BOMBAY, INDIA; SINGAPORE; KUALA LUMPUR, FEDERATED MALAY STATES.
BEFORE SNOW
GOES -
GO TO | J
Mr
é
% GOVT TOURIST BUREAU
QUEENS WALK- MELBOURNE
os UAPTIM PLACF SYDNFY
WILL GLADLY APRANGE ALI DETAILS
PARADISE PLUMES
BY CILBERT MUNRO TURNBULL
bc> <Ei.[JUr©W/».OCHCE/^CD a
Synopsis : Returning to Papua
from Sydney, Stephen BlaJce, Resident
Magistrate, is attracted to Lesley
Rowan, who subsequently marries
Harry Merton, a planter, who has
banished his native mistress, Loana, and
their son. Visiting Laubogi, Merton’s
plantation, Blake becomes suspicious
that Merton knoivs something of the
“ghosts,” which he had been told would
flit through the village in the shape of
humans, whilst Merton’s sharp chang-
ing of the topic when bird-of-paradise
plumes are mentioned, followed by
Blake’s statement that shooting the
birds is outside the law, influences
Lesley to burn a large bundle of the
plumes that were in the house. At
the home of Tod Lorimer, a rich
planter, Lesley becomes friendly with
Lorimer’s half-caste daughter, Moira,
and is annoyed later when Merton sug-
gests that she should break off the
friendship. Blake’s suspicions are
deepened by the business relations of
Merton and Sam Turver, a dipso-
maniac, especially as Turver is send-
ing small shipments to Sydney direct,
an unusual procedure, made more
curious by the fact that the shipping
papers are made out by Lesley.
Blake’s native sergeant, Babaka, set
to watch, reports that he has seen the
“ ghosts” and has arranged that the
R.M. himself shall see them ivhen they
flit again. Blake keeps some of the
best men of his native police when
Glover, Assistant Resident Magistrate,
goes atcay on patrol, and he also
borrows Lorimer’s launch. Meanwhile,
Merton has returned home from
Txirver’s place drunk, and Lesley, hor-
rified, has run out into the night, fallen
unconscious and been taken into
Turver’s hut. Loana, who has seen
this, goes to Merton, and when he
wakes, pleads with him to keep her.
He orders her to go.
CHAPTER XVIII ( Continued ).
FOR an hour or more Merton sat there,
heeding nothing, his eyes staring, seeing
nothing, while his mind jerked back-
wards and forwards in a maddening effort to
understand the catastrophe that had shaken
his life to its foundations. He had intended
no wrong. As God was his judge it was
none of his planning for Loana to—to—
he could not find the words he sought.
Lesley would forgive him when she under-
stood. Lesley was big enough, fine enough
to know that he had meant no harm.
Lesley! Good God! Where was Lesley?
“Taubada! One boy bringem letter.”
Gaduweli stood at the door. His eyes
were hostile, his bearing truculent, and he
was muttering what sounded like impreca-
tions. He held a crumpled envelope in his
hand. Merton snatched it from him and
opened it feverishly.
“Deer Harry”—he read. “For the, luv
of Mike send some bearers for yore mrs. she
is here sick with fever i think Loana
come back here on her way home she took
to yore mrs. someting awful telling her
off cruel and all i shoved her out and
told yore mrs. that Loana was my mrs.
and was wild yore mrs. said i was a beest
and so i am but what about you Harry
yrs resp S. Turver.”
Merton tore up the letter and tossed it
through the open window. His ravaged
face cleared. He was feeling better. Lesley
was safe. She knew r nothing of Loana’s
visit to Laubogi. She need never know
now.
As for the other wretched business—a
smile of unbounded relief spread over his
face; everybody knew what strange tricks
impending fever plays upon its victim’s
imagination. The horrible scene had never
happened—never happened!
Merton felt almost buoyant as he sent
for Moragi, and instructed him to repair
and re-hang the broken bedroom door. He
was all hope now, all determination. He
would apologise to Lesley, apologise pro-
fusely for allowing himself to become tipsy.
As for the rest, it had never happened—
never happened. Fever! Good old fever!
CHAPTER XIX.
The Return to Laubogi.
Intense relief, secret amazement, vague
misgiving struggled together in Harry
Merton’s mind as he set out to Turver’s
place. He realised that he had been veiy
close to the edge of disaster; he perceived
quite clearly that if knowledge of his dis-
graceful escapade ever became public pro-
perty, Akupaka Bay—Papua, indeed—might
become an extremely unpleasant place for
him to live in.
There were moments when he thoroughly
convinced himself that he had done no
more than play the fool; but there were
also moments when he knew he had com-
mitted an unforgivable sin. He had driven
a gently nurtured white woman into the
bush at midnight; he had wantonly exposed
her to unnameable perils; he had outraged
public sentiment, and in so doing he had
outlawed himself.- He would not be the
first white man to be tapped on the shoulder
by a cold-eyed police officer and advised
to take a one-way sea voyage. He felt
himself growing cold at the picture he was
conjuring up.
He had awakened that morning to a
sense of shattering disaster. Even now the
recollection of it sent a chill through him.
Something like panic had swamped him
when, apprehending clearly the vile thing
•he had done, he had seen his position in its
true light. For an hour or more he had been
sick with self-loathing, tense with fear. He
had been face to face with crisis—momentous,
unnerving, and for once he had almost lost
his head. How then, he argued, could Les-
ley’s sudden attack of malaria be regarded
as anything except a piece of unparalleled
good fortune? After all, in Papua malaria
was part of the natural order of things.
After all, one regarded an attack much as
one regarded a cold down south. Everybody
suffered; nobody escaped; it was really
nothing more than an exasperating but
unavoidable interruption in the routine of
one’s life. Fever gripped one, it shook one
up; for a few days one felt frightfully
miserable, desperately ill. Then came con-
valescence, rapid recovery, and a quickly-
forgotten resolution to pay more careful
attention to one’s quinine ration for the
future.
It was not, he assured himself, that he
had no sympathy for Lesley. He loved her
passionately, desperately, enduringly, and
once he had straightened out the sorry
tangle he had made of their married life
he would turn his back for ever on the
things that caused her pain. He would
nurse her with unremitting care; he would
be very tender, very devoted, and in a
week or two she would be her own sweet
self again. She would load him with re-
proaches; that was to be expected. But
he would be calm and dignified, he would
show her that her attitude hurt him. ’ He
would feign irritation, annoyance even, and
all the time he would let her see that he
understood and made allowances for the
extraordinary delusion that had taken pos-
session of her mind. She would be bewil-
dered at first, perplexed, probably angry,
but in the end she would, she must, come
to believe that the malignant germs in her
blood-stream, awakened into sudden
activity,' had temporarily deranged her
mental balance; that her fears were ground-
less, her accusations unjust; that, in short,
her fevered imagination had played upon
her a scurvy trick.
Gradually intense relief swept every other
emotion from his mind; gradually the
difficult situation with which he was con-
fronted took on a totally different aspect.
In Lesley’s sickness—to say nothing of
Sam Turver’s quick-witted lie—Fate, he
felt, had dealt him an unbeatable hand.
It would be folly not to play it. All his
life he had been accustomed to balancing
chances, taking risks. He had merely to
play his cards with care, keep himself in
hand, and all w r ould be well.
He hoped Moragi would make a good,
clean, workmanlike job of the bedroom
door.
Nevertheless, he slowed down as he neared
Sam Turver’s trading station, not wholly
at his ease. It was going to be disagree-
able, this meeting with Lesley. It was
going to be an ordeal. He sat down by
the side of the' track while eight stalwart
natives, carrying a cane lounge lashed to
two stout bamboo poles, went on ahead.
A sense of great coldness suddenly in-
vaded Harry Merton. He lived again
through that ghastly midnight scene.
Every sickening incident stood out with
vivid distinctiveness, searing his brain. He
saw again Lesley’s strained, white face,
her fear-wracked eyes, her shrinking form;
he heard again her terrified scream and his
own muttered obscenities, he felt her piti-
fully puny hands beating on his face, felt
her rings scratching his skin, and he had
a sudden, revolting vision of himself as he
must appear in Lesley’s eyes. There was
no name for the thing he had done to her.
He had behaved abominably, hurt her
desperately. His heart gave a quick jump,
and a spasm of self-disgust held him rigid.
She had called him a beast! She was right.
An unspeakable cad! He was worse. Other
thoughts came purging into his mind. Other
memories tugged at his heart-strings, and
his cold eyes grew wistful, his haggard face
burned red.
Cold-hearted he was, calculating, con-
scienceless, yet he experienced a poignant
sense of something having gone out of him ;
something vital, something beautiful, some-
thing of his soul. Lesley had believed in
him, she had trusted him utterly, she had
enshrined him in her heart, invested him
with all the attributes of her girlish ideal-
isations. It was sacrilege, this vile thing
he had done to her. He had befouled her,
besmirched her, he had desecrated a shrine.
For a moment realisation of his own
baseness dislodged all thought of his miser-
able plan to hoodwink her. He felt his nerve
failing, his courage ebbing. He cursed Tur-
ver, he cursed Loana, he cursed himself,
and he shrank from the merciless judgment
he knew he would read in his wife’s eyes.
The things which but yesterday were as
fundamental as life itself were now vain
things of trivial account. Nothing else in
the world mattered now save rehabilitating
himself in. Lesley’s eyes; atoning to her for
his hideous perfidy; re-creating the dream-
castle he had so ruthlessly destroyed. But
there must be no squeamishness, no false
sentiment, else he were surely lost! He
would lie valiantly, he would bluff con-
vincingly, he would perjure his soul joyfully,
and a life’s devotion would be his atone-
ment.
Merton loved his wife—after his fashion.
He was still brooding, still uncertain about
his immediate future, when he reached
Turver’s shack. He had never felt less in
control of himself, never undertaken a task
he felt less able to perform.
He found the trader perched upon the
store counter, swinging his legs and smoking
furiously. Dirty, blear-eyed, unlovely,
Turver looked what he was. Yet to Merton,
keenly observant, there was a subtle some-
thing in the beachcomber’s demeanor that
was disquieting.
Turver removed the pipe from his mouth
and Merton felt his heavily pouched eyes
boring into him.
“Well, ’Arry!”—the voice sounded aggres-
sive. , ,
“Good-morning, Sam!” Merton responded.
“Awfully decent of you to look after my
wife. I was all in, thanks to your mis-
directed hospitality, when I reached home,
and turned in all standing. My wife must
have been a little light-headed—the fever,
you know. Wandered off in the night un-
known to me. Delirious, I”
Turver uttered a short, sarcastic laugh.
“ ’Ave a ’eart, ’Arry!” he cut in bluntly.
“Think up another!”
For a second Merton glowered at him.
“What the devil do you mean?” he de-
manded, his voice cold with anger. He
made to pass through the store.
“Better stay out ’ere, ’Arry,” Turver
advised. “Y’ll be just about as welcome in
there as a goanner in a fowl-house.”
He had not expected anything like this.
There was a totally unlooked-for vein of
decency, a delicacy of feeling, in Sam
Turver that astonished Merton. He felt
that he was in an utterly galling position.
He lifted his head defiantly, squared his
shoulders, and definite anger came into his
here, Turver,” he began. “You
will oblige me by”
“Y’ make me tired, ’Arry!” Turver inter-
rupted. “Dinkum!”
He slid from the counter abruptly and
dropped his pipe. “ ’Ere they come! Easy,
you boys, easy! ’Old ’er steady!”
Four husky bearers appeared from the
back regions carrying the improvised
stretcher. Their faces registered an awful
solemnity. , _ . ,
There were dark shades under Lesley s
closed eyes, and her face was unnaturally
flushed. Frail as a flower, slight and piti-
ably weak she looked as, swathed in
blankets, she lay in the long wicker lounge.
Merton dropped to his knees beside her.
She opened her eyes wearily and he felt
her startled movement.
“Lesley, sweetheart!” he began.
“Go away!” Her voice was thin, almost
inaudible. “Go away. At once!”
There was no fear in her eyes now; no
horror, no dismay. Judgment shone out
of them—judgment that was also con-
tempt. Merton bowed his head.
Turver touched him on the shoulder,
“Savee, ’Arry?” he whispered. “Y’ only
worryin’ ’er.”
Merton tapped his forehead significantly,
but his eyes belied his jaunty assurance.
Then from out of the back stepped Goada.
She carried a swag-bag on her shoulders, a
flamboyant umbrella in her hand; she was
evidently prepared for a journey.
“I go look out ’long sinabada, Sam,” she
announced. “I savee fashion b’long sick
sinabada.”
“I think not, Goada,” Merton interposed
smoothly. He had contrived to regain his
urbanity.
Goada flashed a look of scorn at him.
“You go ’long Hell!” she blazed.
“Better let ’er ’ave ’er own way, ’Arry,”
Turver put in. “Y’ can’t do no good y’self.
Y’ name’s mud with yer missus just now.”
Merton scowled. “I can look after my
wife, Turver,” he snapped. “Mind your
own business.”
“Furthermore, ’Arry,” continued Turver,
quite unabashed, “y’ orter send for old
Lorimer’s girl. She needs proper nursing,
yer missus does. An’ if y’ don’t send yer
(Continued on page 51.)


24,826 —4 Fine Dia-
monds, Platinum
Setting and 18ct. Gold,
£35
2 4,850 —All- platinum
Solitaire lting, in
variety of designs, set
with fine brilliant
Diamond, £5O
24,833 —3 Fine Dia-
monds, Platinum
Setting and 18ct. Gold,
£3O
24,830 —9 Pine Dia-
monds, Platinum
Setting and 18ct. Gold,
£45
The very latest creations in Diamond Engagement and
Dress Rings, set with Diamonds of scintillating brilliance
and exquisite beauty, are represented in Catanach s
superb displays. Settings include 18ct. Gold and
Platinum, All Platinum and White Gold, and Values are
remarkably keen.
WRITE FOR DIAMOND RING CATALOG IF UNABLE TO CALL.
CATANACH’S
Cor. Royal Arcade and
Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
24,839 —Fashionable 7-
Diamond Ring, 18ct.
Gold and Platinum
Settings, £2O
24,897 —2 Fine Dia-
monds, with 14 smaller
stones in shoulders, in
White Gold and Plati-
num, £75
24,842 —12 Fine Dia-
monds, Platinum
Setting and 18ct. Gold,
£45
24,840 —Choice 3-Dia-
mond Cross-over 18ct.
Gold and Platinum
Settings, £l5
Melbourne
Chatter
Bucklery's
Elizabethan
Tea 'Rooms
R[?] C[?] 200[?]
Bucklery [?] Nu[?]
Boushe [?]
Fashion-mongers are beginning to realise
that in restoring the waist they have sown
a crop of troubles. Hips are the problem.
To achieve the desired effect these have to
be so firmly swathed that movement spells
disaster. Clients at expensive frockeries are
now insisting on seeing a mannequin wriggle
round in their new gown before closing the
deal.
Coral is being used for necklaces again,
after a long eclipse. The latest fashion
calls for a string of large beads at the
back, finished with six small strands at
the front, and fastened with two gold clasps.
A returned traveller has brought one home,
and her friends arc sorting out their coral
relics with the idea of having them re-strung.
Though we still gather around the comfort-
ing fire at night and draw the radiator close
during the day, our seaside resorts are
beginning to awake after months of somno-
lence. The refurbishing of cottages and
mansions for the summer influx has begun,
and the toots and chugs of motor-cars on
scouting expeditions mingle with the sighing
of the sea. Portsea, which shows just now
a front of padlocked gates, is a very delight-
ful spot, but becomes very crowded and noisy
in the season, despite the fact that it is 60
miles from the city. A surfing area has been
mapped out on the ocean-side, to which access
is given by an excellent road that leads down
the cliff to a parking area. A couple of
riiiles or more from the surf beach is massive
London Bridge, which juts out into
the sea, and at low-tide can be scrambled
over by folk with chamois proclivities. An
IS-hole golf links is another lure, and the
bush offers many charming walks. Once
upon a time someone released a couple of
squirrels in the district, and the descendants
frisk in the pine-trees of the main street.
Outstanding amid many fine mansions is that
built by Harold Armytage, now dead, a regu-
lar castle of Portland stone, with battlements
and tower, standing on a rise and sur-
rounded by broad acres that adjoin the golf
links. Externally mediaeval, it is the last
word in modern comfort within, even to a
plateglass-lined bathroom.
The weather luck of Moonee Valley held
good on Saturday afternoon, which was
sunny and warm. Fair punters were glad
to shed their wraps, and spring hats made
a welcome appearance, but the new fine
straw millinery in pale greens and fawns
topped winter costumes. The cold season
dies hard, though the plane, birch and elm
trees of the city streets have burgeoned into
leaf. There was a big attendance at the
Valley.- The Lud Mayor was there with
Mrs. Luxton, who wore ensemble of black.
Mrs. 11. J. Nicholas accompanied them. Mrs.
W. Rogers Thomson, a study in sapphire
blue, had in her party the Cussen lady, Mrs.
Ben Cliaffey (in brown), Nellie Moore and
Miss McPherson, the last-named with a
touch of primrose on her navy blue suit.
The R. G. Baldocks, of Ellangowan, Banana-
land, were in the same group, Mrs. Baldock
sporting an ensemble of bottle-green crepe
de Chine and cloth, with a smart felt hat.
Mrs. James Fell, her daughter, Mrs. Gerald
Patterson, and Mrs. Newton Burns, whose
scarlet hat enlivened black-and-white apparel,
were among those who sipped the four
o’clock brew in the committee tearoom. Mrs.
Ben Lempriere, Dr. and Mrs. J. Merrillees,
. Mrs. Gumming, from Camperdown; Mrs.
A. Dunne, also from the Western District;
the T. Aldridges, lately arrived from South
Australia; and General Johnston and his
daughter Gwen were among the lawn-
patrollers.
At Grong Grong, Toorak-road, on Friday
night the white ballroom with its black-
striped curtains and plaques with figures in
silhouette provided a picturesque setting for
the Air Force hop intended to lay the foun-
dation of a trust fund for the widows and
orphans of R.A.A.F. officers. Thanks to the
kindness of the Tom Smiths, who handed over
their home for the occasion, the dance
had the atmosphere of a private party. The
Smiths’ daughter, Mrs. Norman Gadsden,
and her husband,; who was one of the first
officers to graduate at Point Cook, lent
valuable assistance to the' committee. Mrs.
Gadsden’s black chiffon gown was showered
with rhinestones. Mrs. Smith’s reseda-
green had a deep border in entwining circles
of steel beads, and Mrs. Eric Harrison, the
organiser, flitted around in cherry-red chif-
fon. Wing-Commander Harrison was also
among the aiders. Air Force and military
uniforms brightened the scene, and a wee
seaplane was suspended amid balloons over
the dais in the ballroom. This model was
presented to Air-Commander Williams on the
completion of liis recent rouud-Australia
tour. He was among the jazzers, and
brought Mrs. Williams, whose amber frock
had a shoulder trail of variegated butter-
cups. General Chauvel was accompanied by
his lady, whose flesh-pink gown twinkled
with crystal. Flight-Lieut. W. O. Counsell,
of the medical branch, was there, also Mrs.
13. J. Counsell and her daughter. Colonel
Wright brought his wife, a-glimmer in
crystal and black beads: and Mrs. Douglas
Wilson, wife of Flight-Lieut. Wilson, danced
in sparkling blue. Major and Mrs. Coleman,
she in chanel red satin, were there; also
Mrs. Warland, wearing a powder-blue frock.
Mrs. Graham Dawson had red velvet
shoulder straps supporting silvery lace
flounces. Squadron-leader and Mrs. Mc-
Namara, Colonel Cass and the Herbert Ben-
tons were among the 300 dancers.
The Richard Fitchers brightened what
was socially a somewhat dull week by put-
ting on a bridge-party for some 30 guests
at the Windsor. Peach blossom and lots of
stocks, sweet-peas and grape hyacinths
figured in the decorations, and there was a
sit-down supper. The hostess wore a gown
of black chantilly lace with drapery attached
to the right shoulder at the back. Mr. and
Mrs. W. M. Robins, their daughters, Mrs.
Widge Gray and Mrs. Norman Price and,
their respective husbands, were of the com-
pany, augmented after the theatre by Fred-
eric Bentley, of “The Show Boat,” whose
wife and sister were also present.
The Newman Society gave a jollo at the
Malvern Town Hall one evening last week.
Mrs. T. C. Brennan, whose black tulle
gown had embellishment of red and gold
embroidery, was responsible for a musical
programme contributed to by violinist Helen
Hammerton, pianist Raymond Lambert and
singer Howard Andrews. Mrs. Harry Shel-
ton, wife of the society’s president, headed
the dance committee, carrying a posy of pink
blossoms against a flounced frock of soft black
tulle. S. P. King and Ij. J. Dwyer were
hon. secs.
Matrimonially joined recently were Ida,,
elder daughter of E. G. Cairns, of Toorak,
and Bryson, a son of the D. G. Lumsdens,
of the same suburb. The bride’s attire was
deep ivory lace of cobwebby texture, with a
sheen of flesh pink beneath, and her veil
was of Brussels lace. Two ’maids had
almond-green straw hats' supporting flowers
in bracken hues, topping frocks of floral
patterned ninon combining the same colors.
The Oldham-Cooch; wedding at the Toorak
kirk was a fashionable event of last week.
The bride, Kathleen, is the only daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. Alexander Cooch, of Toorak,
and the bridegroom, Trevor Donald, is the
eldest son of the late Arthur Oldham and
of Mrs. Oldham, a resident of the same
toney subbub. The bridal gown of deep-
cream satin was fashioned on the simplest
lines, and long of sleeve. The train spread
itself from a bustle bow. A Limerick-lace
veil arranged like a snood and a bouquet
of lilies of the valley added to the effect.
Four ’maids, among them Mary, daughter of
knight Lennon Raws and liis lady, at-
tended in frocks of cream georgette, green
straw hats and green shoes, with sheaves of
pink lupins nestling in their arms. Among
the guests summonded to the celebrations
at Halstead were Frank Clarke and his
lady, James Elder and his lady, the G. L.
Lukins and the Wallace Sandfords, of Adel-
aide, whose daughter Joan was chief ’maid
to her cousin.
Composed for production during a Melba
opera season of some years back, Fritz Hart’s
Celtic opera
“The Woman
Who Laughed
at Faery,”
didn’t get an
airing until
last we ek,
when it figured
on the double
bill of a per-
formance by
the students of
the Albert-
street Con.
The four
nights’ season
at the Play-
house included
“The Daughter
of the Regi-
ment” as a
foil to the
story of the
fairy, whose
spells were dis-
persed by a sceptical Mrs. Murphy. The
portrait of Mr. Hart, which looks out of this
window, was painted by Archie Colquhoun.
The composer wore a satisfied smile on the
premiere of his opera, for he had an ideal
cast and a good stage setting. Napier Waller
designed the back curtain and Louis McCub-
bin and Jack Collins painted it, and the wings
were dull-green curtains. The elegant suit
of the Beau Brummel fairy was an inspira-
tion of Mrs. Napier Waller. As a gallant
in fawn satin breeches and long emerald-
green coat with dangling fob, Kathleen
Goodall brazenly wooed the peasant maid,
artist Colin Colahan’s wife, in red skirt and
cloak, black velvet bodice and white chemi-
sette. Dawn Harding was Mrs. Murphy, who
laughed to scorn the line gentleman’s spells;
and Shamus, who nearly lost his bewitched
Mary, was played by Lennox Brewer. Dur-
ing the season there were three changes in
the lead of the accompanying opera, “The
Daughter of the Regiment,” but the Fritz
Hart work had the same cast for all per-
formances.
When Mona Officer said! “I will” to Cap-
tain W. N. Masefield at St. Giles’s, Ship-
bourne, her aunt, Mrs. George Fairbairn,
whose Tonbridge home. Stavecrow, is near
by, gave the reception. The bride, a daughter
of the late Mr. and Mrs. George Officer, of
this city, borrowed the arm of her uncle,
Admiral Sir Herbert Heath, for the occa-
sion, and cousin Rosamund Heath attended
her. A large contingent from the Officer
family swelled the guests. The bridegroom,
a relative of the famous poet, is a noted
rifle shot and a winner of the King’s Prize
of the Dominions’ Rifle Association.
Hanging upon the walls of the Athen-
aeum Hall are oils and water-colors the work
of the Twenty
Melbourne
Painters.
Opening day
of this soci-
ety ’ s yearly
show is atten-
ded with a
ho s pit able
rattle of tea-,
cups; and the
exhibitors lend
rugs and bric-
a-br a c, and
plunder their
gardens to pro-
vide a setting
for their pic-
tures. Frank
Clewlow, direc-
tor of the. Re-
pertory So-
ciety, launched
this year’s ex-
hibition. Ruth
Hollick pictures for us one of the Twenty
Painters, Mrs. Farmer, known in the art
world as Polly Hurry. A foundation member
of the circle, she was one of Max Meldrum’s
students, and with her husband, who is also
a painter, spent three years in the galleries
of the Continent and London. .
An engagement that has thrilled _theatrical
circles is that of fair-haired, soft-voiced Adele
Crane and fiddler Jan Rubini, who waves a
wand over the orchestra at the Capitol.
There’s a move afoot to give the women
and children of the Mallee district a holiday
at the seaside, where they may forget for
a while the trials and tribulations of the land
of the contrary rainfall. Mrs. Murray
Waller, organiser of the Country Women s
Association, lately returned from a tour of
the new Mallee settlements, where she con-
ferred with the residents and ascertained
their views on the subject. Funds are to be
raised, and it is hoped that sufficient money
will be available to establish a permanent
holiday home. Recent travellers through th e
Mallee are impressed with the courage of
the settlers in doggedly sticking things out
against the drought. They say there is no
vegetation of any kind; nothing but sand
driven high against the fences. The remnant of
the sheep are shorn and left to take their
chance. Surviving live stock is being dis-
patched to market for sale, for there is no
fodder for them. The other day a party
motored to Melbourne from Adelaide. They
passed through the Mallee, stopping at inter-
vals to make a brew of tea. One of the
women remarked afterwards that when they
learned how far some of the settlers had
to cart water, they were ashamed that they
had asked for any of the precious liquid.
The English-Speaking Union assembled at
Scott’s the other evening to welcome Mrs.
Peabody, mother of the U.S. Trade Commis-
sioner, and Dr. Cecile Greil, whose daughter
Muriel is a member of the “Show Boat at
His Majesty’s. Dr. Greil, hailing from
New York, is a fluent and able speaker, who
did good service in her own land as a lec-
turer in connection with the Y.W.C.A. migra-
tion scheme. She gave an address and was
thanked by Harold Clapp and the vice-presi-
dent, D. G. Lumsden. U.S.A. Consul-
General Garrels was there with Mrs. Garrels,
who was clad in black velvet. Mrs. Harold
Clapp, the J. Watson Robertsons, Sherman
Peabody and Mrs. J. S. Watts were others
who listened to the speechifying.
The long record in kindergarten work of
Mary Lush, who retired lately, has been
recognised by members of the Baptist Union,
who have presented a stained-glass window
to the Carlton Free Kindergarten as a memo-
rial of her 23 years of honorary service there.
Miss Lush began kindergartening when the
Bouverie-street centre was started. She went
through a course at the training college, be-
coming a lecturer, and for a time she had
charge of the various classes under the F.K.I.
The unveiling of the window, which depicts
children gathered about a teacher, was made
the occasion for a little tea drinking, at
■which Miss Lush begged that the window
should be regarded as commemorating not
her services only, but those of all kinder-
garten workers.
Mayoress Luxton had an early morning
call to the Women’s Hospital on Friday to
set going an all-day fair engineered by Mrs.
Percy Russell on behalf of the W. 11. Appeal
for £lOO,OOO for new buildings. Round the
quadrangle were pitched sweets, cake, flower,
produce and .jumble stalls, manned by mem-
bers of the various auxiliaries. Mrs. T. A.
Tabart, Mrs. George Langridge, Mrs. J. J.
Brenan and others hired a yellow express
van and ran a lucky packet department
which could migrate to spots where business
was briskest. Also there were spinning jen-
nies and treasure hunts. The president or
the hospital, Mrs. .1. Alston, nurses off duty
and many other helpers lined up to do their
bit.
In celebration of its golden jubilee the
Ladies’ Work Association will hold a show
and sale of work in the banquet-hall of
Menzies’ oil Friday afternoon. Among the
exhibits will be a fire-screen in banner form,
an exquisite sample of tapestry, and a map
of the world embroidered on old hand-woven
bleached-linen, showing natural features,
trade-routes, animals, etc. The tapestry is
reckoned to be the finest example, of such
work ever stitched in Vic. The Miller lady
will say the opening words, and other friends
of the association will sell sweets, flowers
and cakes.
The Housewives’ Association assumed new
responsibilities last week by lending its name
to a glad-rag shop in Swanston-street The
object is to cut down the price of frocks.
Whether the world’s wife and daughters will
forsake salvage sales and bargain counters
to purchase their ready-mades at the lI.A.
emporium remains to be seen the shop
opened its doors at the end of last week.
Neither the last day of the R. A. S. Show
nor the Moonee Valley races seduced from
their allegiance the followers of football,
who occupied the M. C. Ground 64,000 strong
on Saturday. Some of them arrived early
in the morning.
The queen contest in connection with the
Women’s Hospital building fund appeal is
bringing in a lot of money for votes at a
penny each. On Saturday the organisers
of the competition, with which is associ-
ated an art union, reached their first £lOOO.
Railways, tramways, racing, football, house-
waves and the movies are represented by the
candidates. Last week Mrs. Barry Thomson,
nominee of the flickers, topped the poll. ±o
further help her candidature a cabaret ball
will be held on Guineas night (next Satur-
day week) at the Oriental.
Beethoven’s Ninth (Choral) Symphony
and Pianoforte Concerto in G drew a large
crowd to the Town Hall on Saturday night,
when Bernard Heinze put the Uni. Sym-
phony Orchestra through its. paces. Edward
Goll. returned after months of absence
abroad, was. soloist in the concerto. He
received a tumultuous welcome and a laurel
wreath. The. Phil. Soc. chorused the ode
that concludes the symphony, the soloists
being Merna Stewart, Cecily Kelly, Nor-
man" Bradshaw' and Robert Nicholson. Posies
rewarded the fair singers. Knights James
Barrett and Richard Stawell and their ladies
were listeners.
Feminine fancy, having run the gamut of
rags, shells, sealing-wax, raffia, leather, glass
and even wood for the construction of posies
for coat and evening-dress, has turned from
the artificial to the real. Fresh flowers are
now quite correct on ball-gowns, the fair
dancers arriving at a hop carrying the spray
to be pinned to the shoulder wdien the coat
is shed. The street flower stalls already
begin to cater for the new fashion.
An item in a recent divorce cohrt pro-
ceedings which did not get into the papers
was the rude, retort of opposing counsel to
a statement of the respondent. Asked
whether she could play a musical instrument
the lady replied, “In my youth I wms a
beautiful violinist.” “Pardon roe, Madam,
countered the Gent One —“a proficient
violinist.”
The heralded revival of “Rose Marie” is
a reminder that the supple Wanda of the
first production, Stephanie Deste, is now
in Seville studying the Spanish dance with
Senor Otira. Pupils travel to him from all
parts of the world.
The dozen superb drawings which Norman
Lindsay did to illustrate “The Quarter-
master” have been reproduced in two-tone
ink on art paper, and are now on sale at The
Bulletin’s chief office, Sydney, and at all
branch offices. The complete set of one
dozen drawings costs only 25., and to put
country subscribers on the same footing as
those of the cities, the set will be sent post-
free from the head office to any address in
Australasia.


1 m ■"— — r— ■^—:
. . .v; : .
’ : ■■ :
■ ..
HSSH| K
,■ ■ ,:: ~ ; :.. ". ■ .' . : ••. ■ •
!■
I
i
II
lillllil
: I
W
ii '■
lilliillllpl
■
■I
—g -
m
m 1
11
m
L
mm
n
.. :V::'-
m
lii
II
■l
: H|
!■■■■
-^d
i
v .
il
1 11
I n
ililllil
~...; ; -
\
I ililllil!
—PI
lllllli
Hfi
mm
11 1!
.
MliM
- ,
.
■
..
ggWW^Tx;:;:::::
isj
:
IIIMIII ■
.
■ H
■I : .
I
1
mm a
:
mm
H
mmt
m
>.. :■ .i : :J
: ■
.r
ywnmna
WMsmmm
mm
■i
* * 711
.
iiiliiiil
, i, „■ i '■■ ji
n
lllllil
11111111
,■,■■■■: ...
■
m
: •■• : 1'
. : ■ •■
mm
:
; ,
mm
111111111,
! hill!'[
■A
III"'
%>A
l/ffl’L
*
m,,
\
A
' | W" M
ii;
P
m
e


The Commonwealth Life (Amalgamated) Assurances
Limited.
Head Office: “THE BLOCK,” 424-430 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £500,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL £150,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS £140,000
The Directors of the abovenamed Company beg to announce that they have
retained
MR. A. T. TRAVERSE F.I.A. (Lond.), F.C.A.S. (New York),
formerly N.Z. Government Actuary and Government Insurance Commissioner, as
Consulting Actuary.
This step was rendered necessary by the growing importance of existing business
and the probability of further absorptions arising from the imminence of Federal
Legislation to control Life Insurance Companies.
The Commonwealth Amalgamated’s present staff and new offices are suitable and
ready for any desirable extension of business. The name of the company is eminently
suitable for the grouping of several of the younger companies who may find separate
existence increasingly expensive and difficult in the near future, and a formula has been
prepared which may afford them easy and creditable entry into joint, economical and
safe existence. The opportunity now exists for the Responsible Officer of any company
to open negotiations. • „ • ,- r
JAMES S. INCH, General Manager. ■
m
m
m
DORIS BLUNDELL
Her mother writes :
“ I have used Rexona
Soap on my three child-
ren since birth and find
it keebs the skin and
hair in beautiful con-
dition,
Shampoo with Rexona Soap
What a difference there is in the heads of hair
you see every day—some are wonderfully at-
tractive and becoming, while others are —just
ordinary.
Try Shampooing with Rexona Soap —you will
be surprised how lovely your hair will become,
how it will reflect all the tiny dancing lights
that give life and beauty to the hair.
You will find that in less than ten minutes you
have doubled the beauty and attractiveness of
your hair by a single shampoo with Rexona
Soap.
Price 1/- per tablet ♦
1 1
1
REXONA.
SOAP
for Health and Beauty
RS9R
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland's
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
For the benefit of the Toe H stall at the
Nursery Rhymes fete a dance was given in
Lennon’s ballroom, which was decked with
flags, the Toe H badge and gay sweet-pea.
Roses and sweet-pea adorned the supper-
tables. Mrs. K. M. Kerr, Mrs. J. S. Hut-
cheon and Mrs. G. A. Cryle sold jazz-caps
and favors. Dean and Mrs. de Witt Batty
received the throng. Mrs. Batty wearing
in’imrose net over mariette. with a silver
soutache. Mrs. N. A. H. Campbell, who is
just back from England, wore ivory-chilfon
fleurette, figured with a jade-colored poppy.
The Premier and Mrs. Moore were there,
she in black lace over pink satin. Mrs.
H'utcheson was in ivory and black; Mrs. W.
B. Journeaux, red spotted net over satin;
Ena Warner (Durban), who is staying with
the A. E. Moores, floral georgette; Zoe
Earle, pink and silver; Royale Journeaux,
pink spotted net; and Olga Barnes, rose
georgette. Mys. F. K Brodribb, just re-
turned from Europe, wore <a Paris frock of
gold lame ; and Mrs. J. L. Selwood was in
black taffetas.
Victor Alexander, son of the David Magees,
of Hawthorn-road, South Brisbane, took
Blanche Margaret, youngest daughter of the
Nicol Robinsons, of Clayfield, for better
an’ worse in the Scots’ kirk at Clayfield,
which was decked with white flowers. The
bride’s gown was ivory pussy-willow over
pink. She wore a veil of hand-embroidered
Brussels lace and a cap of Limerick, and
carried white roses, sweet-pea and pink camel-
lias. The ’maids, Misses R. Smith and Agnes
Robinson, wore floral ninon over primrose
satin and hats of primrose silk straw. They
carried posies of ranunculus, pansies and
primroses.
That evening Major Cain was married to
Vera Elsie, daughter of the late W. and
of Mrs. Buchanan, Graceville, at St. Mat-
thew’s Church, Sherwood. Peach blossom
decorated the church, and the bridal array
was shell-pink mariette with veil of cut
tulle. May Buchanan ’maided in primrose
silk net, the skirt comprised of tiny frills.
The Authors and Artists devoted their
September meeting to a discussion of recently
published Australian novels. Prof. C.
Schindler spoke highly of “A House Is
Built” (“The Quartermaster”), winner of
The Bulletin competition. Emily Buleock
also praised the novel. Phoebe Ivirwan
liked “Up the Country,” by Brent, of Bin
Bin - and F Bennett said “White Witches”
was’ the best of M. Forrest’s books Jack
Matthieu had a good word to say of J. M.
Devaney’s “Vanishing Tribes.”
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The Amateur Turf Cub wasn’t fortunate
with the weather, and rain affected the
attendance. Acting-chairman J. H. Monsh
and his wife presided at luncheon and after-
noon tea. Mrs. Morish’s coat was of black
ring velvet, collared with golden fox fur, and
her hat was a close-fitting black velour. Bur
coats were again worn by many.
Next month the E. W. Holdens with their
family will leave for England to be away a
year, and the Geoffrey Wardles will depart at
the same time. The Wardles are taking their
boys home to be educated, and propose being
absent for several years. Mrs. Reginald
Walker gave a bridge party at her residence
one afternoon last week for Mrs. Holden and
Mrs Wardle. The house was massed with
pink and white blossom, and the guests num-
bered 40. Mrs. Walker looked well in daffo-
dil yellow with hat to match. Mrs. Holden
wore a beige ensemble, and Mrs. Wardle
chose a floral chiffon. The guests of honor
were presented with bouquets by their
hostess
The E.S.U. held a reception at the Went-
worth, Justice Angas Parsons presided, and
Mrs. Carlile McDonnell addressed the mem-
bers. Jean Sinclair and Fred Williamson
sang. , ,
A press and
stage mar-
riage was cele-
brated last
week when
Nellie Deane,
of the Fuller
musical com-
edy co., pro-
mised to
honor and
obey Kerwin
Macgr aith,
cartoonist on
the staff of
the Adver-
tiser. They
met when the
artist was
sent to sketch
the actress.
The bride is
pictured here.
Bishop Thomas opened the Memorial Hall
at St. Peter’s (College, and later in the week
a concert was held there, given by the South
Australian Orchestra under W. H. Foote,
the St. Peter’s College choir and 35 choris-
ters from St. Peter’s Cathedral.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
All roads led to Fremantle on the night of
the Orama Ball and converged at Victoria
Quay, where the brilliantly illuminated vessel
twinkled a welcome to all comers. Flags,
palms and lanterns lent a festive air, but the
top deck, which had been prepared for danc-
ing, was rendered uninhabitable by unkind
weather. The v.-r. party arrived bright and
early, and representatives of local chanties
were there in hundreds. Mrs. Arthur 1' ran-
cis’s raven locks surmounted a beaded
oyster gown caught with leaf-green sash.
Mrs. Ambrose wore diamente black georgette,
and daughter Helen trailed scarlet chiffons.
Green and rose floral ninon became Sheila
Lotz, and Mrs. Reg Summerliayes looked
her best in jewelled white georgette. Mary
Padbury’s pillar-box red was encrusted with
silver, and Mrs. Lyon Johnston s white
mariette had pleated godets in the skirt.
Pink was worn by most of the Hunt Club
members, and gave a carnival appearance to
their ball, which was a benefit affair tor
the Home of Peace, and an outstanding suc-
cess socially and financially. Captains Ross
McDonald and Bavidson-Houston attended
their Exes., who were accompanied by sons
Simon and .Wilfred, High Court Justice
Adrian Knox, Mr., Mrs. and Miss de I ledge
and Mrs. Kerr Pearce. The D. D. Harrises
and Jack Duracks did the honors, lhe btan-
ley Cumpstons’ deb: daughter Kathleen
made her bow in flared silk spotted net, with
touches of pastel shades over blush-pinK
taffetas. Mrs. de Pledge was attired in
black lace and silver lame, and Miss de
Pledge wore soft dawn mariette. Luna
Smiley, one of the secretaries, had a floral
spray of geranium velvet falling from the
waist of her rose satin drapes, and Mrs.
O. Bateman, the other secretary, graced
maize georgette with gold lace panels.
The French community, headed by MM.
Michelides and Antoine, with assistance from
the D.e Latours, gave a dinner and dance at
the Savoy in honor of the captain and
officers of the Tourville. Madame Antoine
extended a cheery welcome in black georgette
and silver; Mrs. B. Prevost was in diapha-
nous black tulle with triangular red discs;
Mrs. Paton came in beige lace; and Miss
Kenny, in white, sprinkled with brilliants.
Mrs. J. Marco, recently returned from Pans,
covered her geranium ninon with a snow-
white ermine wrap.
Mayoress Franklin has been confined to
her crib for the last few weeks, and is still
unable to attend any functions.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Beattie Jordan, pictured here, scored
unquali fled
success in the
name-part of
the Repertory
Society’s pro-
duct i o n of
Barrie’s “Mary
Rose” at the
Theatre Royal.
The house was
crowded for
each perform-
ance, proving
that the
society has
now secured
its publ i c.
Mrs. Goddard
and Fred
Brough cap-
ably fil 1e d
parental roles,
and the rest of
the cast was
satisfactory.
The biggest recent splash in the social pool
was the Clarke-Lyons wedding—the bride-
groom, who is a Commissioner in' Burma,
Matthew John, son of the late M. J. Clarke,
Launceston, and the bride Rhona, second
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Tom Lyons. The
little Church of St. James was packed to the
doors with the wedding party and guests.
Pink Japanese peach blossom and flowering
currant adorned every available spot. The
bride’s dress was of heavy double ivory satin,
classically plain, with one large fan-shaped
bow below the waist, falling with divided
ends to make a double train. Clouds of
tulle fell from a coronet of orange buds.
Her sleeves were long and tight, and she
carried a bouquet of Madonna lilies cleverly
made from feathers. The three tall, grace-
ful ’maids, Gertrude Grimwade (Melbourne),
Nancy Giblin and Helen Gray, were arrayed
in delphinium-blue georgette, with skirts in
flared flounces drooping at the back, and flared
shoulder capes. Their hats were of summer-
weight felt, with wide brims, trimmed with
a narrow band and a hanging loop of darker
blue ring velvet. There was a tremendous
crowd at the reception at Lyndhurst, the
home of the bride’s parents. His Ex. and
Margaret O’Grady were among the guests.
A bridge party run by Mrs. Cox Taylor
and a strong committee filled the Continental
and brought many shekels into the coffers
of the Rifle Clubs’ Union. Pretty girls sold
sweets and flowers, and a good supper put
the cap on a successful effort.
The John Fosters have bought the Pleasant
Banks estate, Evandale, from the J. V.
Gibsons, and will go there early next year.
The Daffodil Show in the City Hall
flaunted the golden glory of spring ,in little
glass specimen vases and in great bowls.
Every year the varieties of narcissi are added
to, and though it needs an expert eye in some
cases to detect the difference between new
and old, they’re all very nice.
AT THE BACK OF THE NORTH WIND.
Darwin.
The children’s fancy dress ball was the
event of the year to the younger genera-
tion. There was a rainbow, a Chinese lan-
tern, a tinker, Mother Goose, a red Indian,
a basket of flowers, Felix the Cat, the
Devil and Dr. Faustus, a yellow butterfly,
and a policeman: also a Dutch couple,
a Georgian couple, and a pair of tiny
fairies. The Queen of the Movies was
crowned during the evening,' her two small
brothers acting as attendants.
The races were the great event of the year
at Katherine. Borroloola, Victoria River,
Alice Springs, Mataranka, Darwin, Adelaide
River, and even Wyndham (W.A.) sent
their quota of visitors. Alice Springs; horses
won the four most important events, includ-
ing the Katherine Cup.
The engagement is announced of Nita,
grand-daughter of Mrs. and the late W. Mans-
field, of Darwin, to Charles, eldest son of
Mr. and Mrs. T. McLoughlin, of Yorkshire.
Miss Mansfield is a former Territoi*ian, hav-
ing been born at Brock’s Creek. Her grand-
mother is the “grand old woman’’ of Darwin.


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
è
é
Food
&««& Tkadb Mark
The
happy task
of motherhood, is lightened
by Benger’s food.
Nursing and expectant
mothers will find a mine
of valuable information in
the new booklet, a medi-
cally approved work, sent
post free.
Try Benger’s Food for
delicate infants, and at
weaning time.
Write for booklet to; —BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
Monday to Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/-
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’Hflte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 12/6; or
a la carte, minimum, 12/6
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 6.30, 5/-
The Ambassadors New Delightful
Dance Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
launch to Gabubu, I’ll dam’ well send a
canoe. Understand that!” He turned
sharply to the bearers. “Orf yer go, me
boys.”
With infinite care the bearers raised their
burden to their shoulders and, stepping
cautiously, moved out into the sunshine.
“ ’Ave a snifter, ’fore y’ go, ’Arry,” Turver
invited; “brace y’ up a bit. No offence
meant ner taken, I ’ope, but y’ are a bit
over the odds, aincher, ’Arry?”
Merton flung himself out of the store
with a bitter oath.
“’Old on, ’Arry!” Turver called after
him. There was a note of grim amusement
in his voice that halted Merton. He swung
round.
“Well?” he snarled. “What the”—-
“There’s a bit of a cut on yer forrid,
’Arry,” Turver grinned. “Just over y’ eye.
A inch of court-plaster”
But Harry Merton had fled.
* * * *
Merton was in a thoroughly exasperated
frame of mind when he returned to Lau-
bogi. He was conscious
of a dull fury against
Sam Turver who had
shamed him, against
Goada who had scorned
him and against himself
because every word they
had uttered was truth.
He took the verandah
steps at a run and stood
there biting his lips. The
houseboys had removed
Lesley’s bed and were
carrying it to a spare
room that opened off the
verandah. Lesley was al-
ready out of sight in her
new quarters.
“What is the meaning
of this?” Merton de-
manded angrily.
“Sinabada she bin talk,”
Goada answered trucu-
lently, coming out of the
room. “You wild, hey
Hari? You . t’ink I
fright ’long you, hey?”
He knew that these
“filthy nigger s” had
beaten him, humiliated
him, and the fact that he
was powerless made the
knowledge all the more
galling to bear.
It was time to assert
himself if he was to re-
main boss on Laubogi
Plantation. He went to
his room and returned
shaking down the mer-
cury in a clinical thermo-
meter. Then he tiptoed
into the sickroom.
Lesley turned her head
painfully. Her brows
straightened, her fever-
brightened eyes widened.
“Go away! ” she
moaned. “Go away!”
Goada watched him as
he slunk from the room
and she showed her teeth.
Merton went back to
his seat, his face livid
with anger and mortifica-
tion. He was not used to
rebuffs. Still less was he
used to suffering them
with patience. Given a
free hand, he could have
Lesley on her feet in a
day or two, little the
worse for her experience.
The treatment was
simple, the remedy infal-
lible ; but she would have
none of him, his mere
presence in the room
was intolerable to her.
There was something almost fearful in the
change which had come over her face each
time he had tried to succor her. Surely, even
in her sickness, she knew his true feelings
towards her. Not for years had he felt so
disconcerted, so humiliated, so beaten. She
was foolishly obstinate; she was criminally
wilful. Couldn’t he make her understand
that she was jeopardising her chances of re-
covery? That life and death were in the
balance?
The thought that Lesley might die sent
an icy chill stealing through his veins. Fear
gripped him by the throat, and with a
little groan he took a quick step towards
the sickroom.
He heard his wife’s voice babbling
incoherencies. He craned his neck forward,
holding his breath that he might hear the
better. She was living again through the
scenes of the past few hours. Like cinema
films they were reeling through her tortured
brain. Her reproaches, her pleas, her tears;
the taunts, the chuckles, the curses.
Merton went to pieces. He stumbled
into his office and scribbled a rambling, dis-
jointed note to Tod Lorimer.
Gaduweii, sulky, mutinous, took it to the
launch-boy, and Merton went out into the
plantation.
The bitterness in him craved for some
sort of expression. For an hour or more
he drove the working gang ruthlessly. He
raved like a man demented, cuffing the
laggards, snarling at the diligent, so that
at last the terrified gang rebelled, and,
throwing away their mattocks, fled to the
bush.
Merton stood stock still until the last
“Like a flash it had come, setting her nerves quivering.”
man had disappeared in the jungle. Then
he turned round and cursed the boss-boy.
Moragi stood his ground. “This fashion
no good, Taubada,” he growled. “More
better you go ’long house, gettem some
kaikai.” Moragi spat disdainfully.
The white man turned on his heel and
went to the bungalow 7. One by one the
deserters stole back, casting apprehensive
glances towards the house, and, picking up
their discarded tools, resumed their labor.
At long last Tod Lorimer and his
daughter arrived on the scene. Merton
half rose, muttered a conventional greeting,
and subsided into his chair again. Lorimer
wondered what had broken him down so
completely.
Moira disappeared within the sickroom.
Presently she came to the door and
beckoned to her father. Together they
bent over the bed. Lesley was tossing
restlessly, turning jerkily, and from her dry
lips came a constant babble of words. But
her words were without meaning. She had
lost all power of conscious thought.
Moira pushed her father gently from the
room and went to work immediately. Here
was a situation with which she was well
able to deal. There was a new fire in her
eyes as she snapped her orders to Goada, a
new vigor in her movements as she pre-
pared to quench the fire that was consum-
ing her new-found friend.
Old Tod’s face was very grave when he
rejoined Merton, and in his eyes was a
look of mystification. Lesley had been mut-
tering strange words. Over and over again,
amid a confusion of meaningless syllables,
a name had dribbled from her lips. A man’s
name; but it was not the name of her
husband.
Tod Lorimer was bewildered, and more
than a little shocked.
“Wot about a bit of a walk, Merton?”
he suggested. “Do yer good. Y’ look
rotten.”
He tried to draw Merton into conversa-
tion, but the other was not encouraging.
The setting sun was blazing in golden
splendor over the sea when Moira Lorimer
came out on to the verandah. Merton sat
up with a jerk, anxious inquiry in his eyes.
“All right now, Mr. Merton,” Moira told
him. “She is fast asleep, just like small
girl, and the temperature is down. Come
see!”
Merton crept softly to his wife’s side.
Moira threw a quick glance at him. She
said afterwards that his face frightened her.
Chapter XX.
The End of a Dream.
When Lesley awoke the following morning
the fever had left her, but she felt cramped,
cold and weary. Moira Lorimer came
swiftly to her side, bringing tea, scalding
hot. Lesley greeted her with a wan smile,
but without curiosity or surprise. Her
brain was numb.
Later, after Moira had bathed her aching
body, she lay back on her pillow. A little
frown of perplexity furrowed her brow. A
vague recollection stirred, little memories
began to steal into her brain, and indefin-
able fears oppressed her. She swallowed
obediently the many bitter-tasting tablets
Moira gave her, and perplexity was still
wrinkling her forehead
when she heard a firm
step outside her door.
When she lifted her
throbbing head her hus-
band was standing
motionless by the bed-
side.
His lips were com-
pressed, his face grim,
and anxiety showed in
his eves.
Lesley’s hands clenched
and unclenched and a
fit of trembling seized
her. Memory had
awakened. Like a flash
it had come, setting her
nerves quivering. Moira
Lorimer was still in the
room, and her father
stood at the door, his
white face wreathed in
encouraging smiles.
Merton bent down to
kiss bis wife. With a
quick turn of her head
towards him, she offered
her cheek. Her lips were
smiling, but her eyes held
cold disdain.
Merton flinched. Only
he heard her whispered
words.
“Please leave the
room. Immediately!”
“I am so relieved to
know you are better,
dear,” he murmured, his
voice quite colorless. “It
has been a trying time,
dear, very trying. I don’t
know what I should have
done without Moira.”
Moira looked pleased.
“But you must not stay,
Mr. Merton,” she cau-
tioned. “Soon you must
go, please.”
“Moira is an angel,
Hal,” Lesley smiled, but
her scornful eyes bade
him go.
She was crushed with
despair; helpless, lonely,
miserable she felt, but
she was also proud.
Merton turned and
vanished.
Left alone, Lesley lay
deep in misery, her face
pressed against the pil-
lows, shaking in sobs.
“It is good for her, this
weeping,” Moira told
Merton. “It is the fash-
ion of white ladies after
that they have been sick.
At the mission I have
nursed many sick sisters, and always they
have wept with great bitterness.”
In the first devastating shock of calamity,
Lesley was conscious only of her own
wretchedness. She had been in a trance of
j oy; now 7 she was submerged in a sea of
misery. Hal had been the partner destined
for her by life itself; now he was a mon-
ster fi’om whom she shrank in shuddering
fear. What a culmination to her golden
dreams! Hal had failed her; failed her
(Continued on next page.)


Don’t forget
next Friday
This is Sydney’s day of days—
Carnival Day—Fun Day, Rose Day!
Come along and be young for a
cfay—join in the clamor for the
lucky bat on the chocolate wheel.
Cheer with the crowd when the
band strikes up. Succumb to the
charming plea—“ Buy a rose,
buy a button, please?”
From early in the morning till late
at night a thousand voluntary
workers will be coaxing pennies
from you. Give, give till it hurts—
and do your bit. One hundred
charities are dependent on your
charity—be a spendthrift just for a
day.
ê
ROSE DAY
Organised and supervised by the United Charities Fund,
(This space kindly donated by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.)
Winner Last Year
J. R. Jeffrey, Kojfarah, N.S.W.
This may be your
Lucky Year !
DON’T DELAY
Buy your
TICKET
To-day
ë
£
i
£
fIODO
2 nd £4oo
3 rd £*l3 < 2
OWlOt/mPraed
Drawn 16th NOV., 1929
Tickets I/- obtainable
from Local Agent
or direct from
A. W. YAGER, MIC
Secretary,
Trades Hall.
Sydney
ē
uhehand that holds]
tk" VENUS' 1
vplans tk World
The first rough suggestion—the skilful
and accurate working out, the sharp
detailed drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
constructive effort, call for the use of VENXJS
PENCILS. Whether it be for the building of a
battle-ship or the design of a simple household
article, the pencil is the first requirement: the
VENUS the first pencil.
17 Blacklead Degrees 68-9 H sd. each - 4/9 per dozen, Super Copying (Medium & Hard) 6a.
each - 5/9 per dozen. Venus Copying (Medium & Hard) 4d. each - 3/9 per dozen.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
An Ideal Winter Home —The Most Sheltered Spot on the Harbor, with Private Beach and
Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort—Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds
and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4| guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines).
#
V"
5#
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
“THE EXAMINER” is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricul-
tural, Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” has been published in Launceston
for 87 years, and is still the family newspaper of
Northern Tasmania.
Full information, copies, advertising rates oj “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier" and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from;
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd., Mr. V. W. Margetts, Mr. W. G. Dougan,
73-75 Patterson Street, 122 Flinders Street, 726 Herald Building,
Launceston. Melbourne. 66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
utterly; her life was encompassed with
dread, her house of dreams had crumbled
like a vain thing before her eyes, and the
future of her life was fearful to dwell upon.
Suddenly a passion of anger against the
man who had wrought this havoc took pos-
session of her, filming her eyes, stiffening
her muscles. All her faith she had given
him, and he had thrust out hideous hands
and destroyed it. She told herself with
fierce insistence that she had never known
him; that he had tricked her with honeyed
words, hypnotised her with golden visions.
But the thought brought no surcease of her
wretched depression.
When, at last, the clamor of her anger
died down, other voices became audible.
They were mere whispers at first—dis-
regarded comments, meaning nods, a word
or two dropped here and there at Port
Moresby and aboard the Moratau, and
then, in wearying procession, the little
tragedies of her life at Laubogi. She may
not have known Hal, but others had known
him. A vision of the dance-room at Port
Moresby rose up before her. Mrs. Browne-
Burfitt, who had been so kind; Mervyn
Woods; the dear Professor, and—and
Stephen. They had all known Hal for
what he was. Why hadn’t they told her?
Why had they allowed her to blunder into
the trap that now enmeshed her?
How was it to go on? How was it all
to end? It would be better, perhaps, if
she made an end; better perhaps, if they
separated. The thought stirred her pride
into revolt. The misery of acknowledged
defeat met her questioning eyes. She saw
herself beaten; she saw her youth and her
dreams, her hopes and high purposes dragged
in the mire, made the sport of venomous
gossip, and again her pride rose up in
protest.
She pressed her face again to the pillows,
and wept.
* * # $
Tod Lorimer was not by any means an
observant man; he was not at all sensitive
to outward impressions, nor was he given to
analysing his own emotions. Nevertheless,
not many days elapsed before the knowledge
was forced upon him that there was some-
thing very definitely amiss at Laubogi.
A demon of restlessness possessed Merton.
One minute he would be brooding silently
in his chair; the next he would tiptoe to
the sickroom and rally the patient, only to
fling back to the verandah and into his
chair. Then he would stalk off to the
working gang in the plantation. An hour or
so later he would return and go through the
performance again. Tod Lorimer began to
get edgy; Merton was wearing the old man
down.
Under Moira’s skilful ministrations, Lesley
was making a good recovery. On the fourth
day she got up and thereafter spent the
long daylight hours in a lounge on the
front verandah.
Merton’s relief was unmistakable. A new
geniality came into his voice, a new spring
to his stride, and he spent more of his
time with his laborers as a good planter
should.
Tod had never pretended to like Merton
save only in the company of the latter’s
wife; but now he grudgingly admitted he
had never seen him in a better light. He
was full of solicitude for his sick wife, keenly
anxious for the comfort of his guests, and
genuinely desirous of making their enforced
visit as pleasant as possible. Marriage,
Tod reflected, had worked a miracle with
Harry Merton.
Then Tod Lorimer made a disconcerting
discovery.
He had noticed in an indefinable, unin-
terested kind of way that while Merton’s
attitude towards his wife was everything
that was admirable, Lesley’s manner was a
little cold, a little aloof, unresponsive.
Tod was vaguely disturbed. He began
to watch Lesley closely. And he found that
Merton was also watching her, and that the
houseboys were covertly watching both the
man and the woman.
Old Tod Lorimer became very thoughtful
indeed.
When at last Lesley was on her feet, he
discovered that she rarely left the verandah
unless Moira accompanied her.
/Tod was now distinctly perturbed. He
remembered with a sense of alarm that
Merton’s wife had not called on her hus-
band’s name in her fevered delirium. She
had muttered over and over again in a sort
of perpetual rhythm the name of another
man. And that man was Stephen Blake.
Tod Lorimer spat in quick disgust. He
told himself firmly that Blake was not that
kind of man, and that Lesley Merton was
decidedly not that kind of woman. Never-
theless, the doubt persisted, and he felt
vexed, irritated. Definitely he wanted to go.
The destiny of men, the history of
nations sometimes turn upon utterly trivial
events. What strange chance or beneficent
fate drew Tod Lorimer’s feet into the plan-
tation that evening?
Tod had charged his pipe and gone out
into the night. Returning after a full hour
of solitude beneath the stars, he heard
voices as he passed under the kitchen
building. He recognised Gaduweli’s voice
and the voice of one of the houseboys,
a dull-witted youth, whose name he had
never heard. They were talking animatedly
together in the soft Melanesian language of
the Suau people, a tongue Tod had learned
to speak in the old days at Samarai. They
were discussing the taubada and the sina-
bada.
Lorimer became suddenly alert. He heard
the word “iauiauri,” which means drunk;
then the Suau equivalent of fight and blood
and screams and tears; he heard them
mention Turver’s name and Loana’s name,
and he heard things that made him grit
his teeth and clench his hands, things that
made him feel ashamed of his white skin.
Thereafter the old man bowed a reverent
knee to Lesley Merton, and ignored her
husband utterly. -Many times he rose from
Merton’s table cursing the fact that Merton
was his host; cursing the fact that there was
nothing he could say, nothing he could do.
The day came when their return to
Gabubu could no longer be delayed. Lesley
accompanied them to the landing. Merton,
to Tod’s unbounded relief, remained on the
verandah.
“I shall not try to thank you, Moira,”
Lesley said. “Words are but poor things
to express my feelings towards you both.”
She kissed the girl affectionately. Moira
looked strangely embarrassed and shy.
Lesley’s face changed when she shook hands
with Tod Lorimer. There was something
of doubt, something of dread in the glance
she bent upon him. A sudden flood of
tenderness surged within the old man. He
took both her hands in his, his face twitch-
ing.
“Good-bye, ma’am!” he stammered. “If
, y’ ever feel that y’ need friends, or—or
anythink, y’ can always call on Gabubu.”
“I know, Mr. Lorimer,” she replied softly.
“And I shall not forget.”
There was a certain hardness in Lesley’s
face, a certain listlessness in her move-
ments as she made her way back to the
bungalow; but her eyes were wide open,
unfaltering, and, though her face was pain-
fully white, the line of her mouth was firm.
Merton sprang instantly to his feet and
came swiftly towards her, a thin smile on
his face
“Well?” Lesley challenged.
Her voice was like a knife thrust.
“I cannot pretend to understand you,
dear,” he said soothingly. “You have been
so ill, Kitten, so very ill, and”
He made another step towards her, but
she raised her hands against him, thrusting
him back.
“You—you dare?” she flamed. “Don’t
come near me!”
An expression of perfectly simulated
amazement spread over Merton’s face, and
he raised his hands in dramatic surprise.
“My dear!” he exclaimed in a shocked
voice. “How can you? Come, Kitten!”
he went on, suddenly firm. “I have been
patience itself, but this game you are
playing is really very silly. I’m making
every allowance for the state of your health,
but please try to be reasonable. I insist!”
For a second Lesley seemed puzzled.
Then she lifted her head and stared stead-
fastly at him. There was scorn in her eyes.
“You are going to 'explain,’ of course. I
might have expected it!” A bitter little
laugh escaped her.
“Really, Lesley!” he said patiently.
“Please don’t be so melodramatic.”
A sudden surge of anger swept over her.
She whirled upon him furiously. Her pent-
up feelings found expression and she lashed
him mercilessly.
In the face of her fierce onslaught Merton
drew back in unaffected bewilderment. He
had been prepared for reproaches, tears,
hysterics even, but for nothing quite like
this. Her voice was high-pitched, almost
shrill, her eyes were dark with anger. This
was a woman quite other than she who had
fled from him in terror a week ago. This
raging young tigress was not his meek and
mild little wife. He tried to check her.
He might have saved his breath. He made
a quick step towards her, but swiftly she
eluded him. He drew back, seething in-
wardly, white to the lips, his eyes blazing.
“You little fool!” he rasped violently.
“For heaven’s sake shut up!”
Lesley caught herself up. For a moment
she stood, her eyes flashing; then, collapsing
into her chair, she burst into a passion of
tears.
Merton glowered at her. Her torrent of
rage seemed to absolve him from all com-
punction. He had been weak, pitiably
weak and squeamish. He should have
pulled her up, silenced her at the very start,
instead of allowing her to tongue-lash him
in that amazing fashion. Women were like
niggers. They required a firm hand, a tight
rein. Ruthlessness they understood, and, in
their hearts, admired; tenderness in a
man was a weakness they secretly despised.
Just like niggers! He was a fool to think
that Lesley was any different from the
rest, a fool to abandon the tenets of a creed
that had served him all his life. Good God!
She had treated him like dirt! She had
made him feel like a nigger. And, after all,
for what? What did his offence amount to?
He had tried to make amends all the time
she had been sick, and she had spurned him.
Right! She was his wife, and she had a
wife’s duties and responsibilities.
“Come, come, Lesley,” he said. “I’ve
had quite enough of this nonsense. Cut
this foolishness out, once and for all.” He
had abandoned any notion of trying to
conciliate her. There would be one boss on
Laubogi from now on.
“I have my work to do,” he reminded her.
“Perhaps you will postpone the next act
of your ridiculous tragedy until I return
from the plantation.”
Lesley shivered. For a moment she sat
still, her face averted but her head erect.
Then she turned and looked squarely at
him.
“Sit down, Hal.” Her voice was steely,
her eyes cold as ice. “We have much to
. say to each other, you and I, and to-day is
settling day.”
(To be continued next week .)


Legal Notices.
MOT ICE is hereby given to ELIZABETH
LOUISA GREETS, formerly Rennick,
formerly Butler (maiden name Elizabeth
Louisa de Val), to send in her claim as
one of the next-of-kin of William Smith de
Val, late of Brighton, England, deceased.
Unless her claim is sent in to E. D.
KEMP, Esq., Public Trustee, Hobart, Tas-
mania, within 35 days from the date of this
issue her claim will be barred.
TO JOHN FLEMING formerly of Menin-
die in the State of New South Wales
Laborer but whose address is unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife Hilda
Annie Fleming has instituted proceedings
against you for divorce on the ground of
desertion Unless you enter an appearance
in the Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme
Court in Melbourne on or before the third
day of November 1929 the case may proceed
in your absence and you may be ordered to
pay costs.
HARWOOD & PINCOTT,
Solicitors for Petitioner,
89 Queen Street, Melbourne; and Geelong.
'T'O the Wife or any Child or Children or
A Remoter Issue of OSCAR WILLIAM
ANDREWS Deceased who died in
New Zealand on the 26tli March
1928 and to ELIZABETH SARAH
CARTER a sister of the said Oscar
William Andrews and any Child or
Children of the said Elizabeth Sarah
Carter and to all persons claiming by
through or under them or any of them.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
30th August 1929 by a Judge of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand you are hereby called
upon to send in to the undersigned on or
before the first February 1930 your claims
to the estate of the above-named deceased
failing which the said estate will be distri-
buted amongst those entitled thereto disre-
garding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this third day of
September, 1929.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
'iViilii,
f YSBAO)
w
fflflhi/ I>'A
: : 1
//
YOUR SKIN
BreaKingOut?
SOOTHE that itching shin with
Zam-Buk. This famous ointment
clears it of all pimples, boils, rash, or
other unsightly eruption.
Zam-Buk has a purifying action on
the skin. Its refined herbal essences
soak through the pores deep into the
tissues and expel all accumulated
poison. Zam-Buk makes the skin
healthy and unblemished.
Keep Zam-Buk always handy _ Whether
it be a simple spot or graver disfigurement
like eczema, ulcers, abscesses, etc.,
Zam-Buk is always ready to soothe and heal.
It it far ahead of the old fatty ointments.
1/6
per
box
INDIGESTION
IS DANGEROUS
Many people trifle with indigestion as a
“minor ailment.” Never was a worse
mistake! “Indigestion” can mean ulcerated
stomach—and may affect the heart. Anti-
acids and magnesia are unsatisfactory; then
brief relief lulls to a false sense of security.
You must not only get rid of the acid, but
the cause of the acid, and the one sure way
to do that is to get some six-grain tablets
of Para-Pepsin and take three with each
meal. Para-Pepsin not only stops stomach
distress: it maintains correct digestion,
sweetens the breath, and helps Nature in a
positive way to real stomach health. The
cost is very small, and chemists everywhere
not only supply Para-Pepsin but recommend
it.
CAPTAIN CRAB
SPECIALLY SELECTED
PLEASES HOSTESS AND VISITORS
ALIKE
RECIPE-BOOK AT AIA. GROCERS
Wmmwmm
. 7 7 \
WaHm.
I mm
ARMSTRONGWHITWOKTH
SHIPS—MARINE ENGINES—LOCOMOTIVES—GENERAL ENGINEERING
Australian Agents: Messrs. Gilbert Lodge & Co., Ltd., Melbourne, Sydney and Adelaide.
V
M.C.39a.
i
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
e
THE PATRIOT
[DIRECT MEDIUM TQ WOMEN
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
LIFE INSURANCE IS A NECESSITY!
It protects your dependants.
It provides for your old age.
It is a profitable investment.
It prevents sacrifice of property by
providing funds for probate duties.
To place your Life Assurance
to the best advantage
INSURE WITH
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Assets --- £73,776,000.
Large Annual Bonuses.
INQUIRIES INVITED.
F. T. BRIDGES, Acting General Manager.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
c
■c
The Dainty Healing Touch
of Cuticura Ointment
Exquisitely dainty, pure and effec-
tive, Cuticura Ointment does more
than heal. It cleanses the pores of
impurities and restores them to their
normal activity so necessary in pre-
venting pimples, blackheads and
many forms of irritating and unsightly
blemishes. Used either before or after
a thorough cleansing with Cuticura
Soap and warm water, Cuticura Oint-
ment quickly demonstrates its sana-
tive, cleansing and healing powers.
Soap Is., Ointment Is. and 2s.
Talcum Is. 3d. Sample each free.
Address ß. Towns & Co.,Sydney. N.S.W.”


GUNS
SPORTING
RIFLES
SHOOTING
EQUIPMENT
By the leading
English, American
and Continental
makers at
MICK SIMMONS
è
No. 15—WINCHESTER
SINGLE SHOT RIFLE,
1904 MODEL,
for 22 short, long, or long-rifle
rim-fire cartridges; 21 in. heavy
round steel barrel, plain trigger,
bolt action, ladder rear sight;
length of rifle over all, 37fin.;
plain front sight; weight,
about 41b . 40/ “
Postage, 1/9; Other States, 3/2 .
No. 23—WINCHESTER
REPEATING CARBINE,
1892 MODEL,
25/20, 32, 38 or 44 cal., central
fire, full or half magazine, 20in.
round barrel;
weight, about s fib., £6/12/6
Carriage Paid.
No. 38—B ROWN I N G
“TROMBONE” H’LESS
REPEATING RIFLE,
22in. round steel barrel; handles
22 short, long, or long-rifle cart-
ridges; screw rear and open front
sights; length over all,
39in.; weight, 4f lb. ...
Carriage Paid.
No. 41—S A V A G E
SPORTING RIFLE,
MODEL 23C,
25/30 or 32 W.C.F.
Calibre, 25in. £5/5/-
barrel
Carriage Paid.
No. 2—THE
MAINE
SPECIAL
BOLT-
ACTION
RIFLE,
22-cal., take-
down, with safety
bolt. For short,
long, or long-
rifle cartridges;
2 1 in. round
barrel;
weight,
about 3flb.,
24/-
Postage, 1/6;
Other States,
2/8
Complete Shooting Catalogue post free on request.
English
HUNTING KNIVES
é
The “Pioneer” English Hunting Knife; this knife
has a wide blade, and a handle of bakelite, brass
and leather segments, with stag tip, and sheath,
oin. blade 7/6
6in. blade 8/-
The “Bowie” English Hunting Knife, made of finest
quality steel; this is a genuine Bowie pattern knife,
having a stag handle, and double metal guard, with
sheath.
Sin. blade 6/6
6in. blade 7/6
The “Boone” English Hunting Knife, ideal for
sticking, skinning, cleaning, slicing, etc. ; handle of
bakelite, * leather and brass, aluminium tip, with
sheath.
4}in. blade 7/6
6in. blade 8/6
(Postage on any one knife, 6d.)
MICK SIMMONS Ltd.
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket,
Sydney.
“Leaders in Outdoor Sport and Home Entertainment”
On aristocracy
STANDING alone on i
vie?pinnacle of excellence,
owing much to inheritance,
English Bone China is the very
aristocracy of table ware. The
world looks to Staffordshire
for the china of gentlefolk. In
what connoisseurs call colour—
rather the very absence of
colour Shelley’s “ Dainty
White ” cups, saucers, plates,
which look white in a snow-
drift, are English Bone China
at its best.
Ask j
ro see rue ceresr
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery War*
Lucie Attweu
oHilda Cowham
Dome stic Ware
Jelly Moulds
M2.CLAMNCI IT.
HEALTH
AND
HAPPINESS
are offered you in Aus-
tralia’s natural playground
and health resort —
TASMANIA
Hobart, the beautiful capi-
tal of the Island, is the
centre of a thousand and
one charms that will hold
you spellbound with de-
light and give you health
and happiness.
There is the spell of un-
told beauty in its scenic
grandeur, and a charm of
indefinable happiness in
its peaceful life.
This joy of the Southern
Isle can be yours.
Consult the
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU,
Ocean House, 34 Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
eg
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
ê
Men are AMAZED AT THEIR STRENGTH
BRITON—MAKER OF MEN
After This Free Book
Shows the Way to Great
Muscular Power
Get This Book Now! Whether you are weak
or strong—sickly or healthy—young or
old—overweight or underweight regardless
of WHAT your condition may be, send for
it NOW. It will show you how men just
like yourself have grown STRONG. It will
show you the way to a superbly built body—
to broad shoulders, pow'erful muscles, a
deep chest, a slim waist-line, to splendid
health and vitality in every organ of your
body.
MAKE THIS TEST TO-NIGHT.
Before you step into your pyjamas to-night, stand in front of the mirror and look yourself over.
Are you proud of the man you see? Is he a strapping broad shouldered husky, with arching
ohest and rippling bands of solid muscle? Would you bet on him in a fight? f
Be fair to yourselL You can’t expect the respect of men or the admiration of women if you re
a physical weakling. Let me get to work on that body of yours Let me build a man who 11
be PROUD to step out in a bathing suit. The free book shows how EASY it is.
You’ll never know what this hook is worth to you until youve lead it for yourself. It may
change your entire life. It’s a revelation in body-building and muscle-building. It s crammed
full of pictures and matter that will make you open your eyes Thmxmte , ofmen have ttought
it worth while to invest a 6d. stamp to get their copies. That to BAY
obligation—no salesman will call. YOU be the judge and jury. Mail the coupon or write—TO-DAY.
“SECRETS OF MUSCULAR STRENGTH.”
What gives the wrestler his terrific muscular power? Not stimulants or drugs.
No! The Power that he has acquired YOU can get in your own home. You
can have terrific strength in your body like the wrestler has. You can emerge
out of your shell into the glories of muscular manhood- and this book will
show you how! Get it while it’s FREE—NOW!
MY SECRET.
The great improvement in your health and strength is simply the natural outcome
of a SCIENTIFICALLY CORRECT COMBINATION OF RESISTANCE.
You will le amazed at its simplicity and the results you will get from it.
I Don’t Promise You Results.
I GUARANTEE to put two inches of solid muscle on your arms ; to increase your chest five
inches; to develop your neck ,to a size larger collar; to add three inches of powerful development
to your thighs, two inches to your calves; to give you a firm, .slim waistline that will make
you take in a notch or two* in your belt. And I don’t ask you to take my woid for it
I don’t promise anything—l back every statement with an ironclad GUARANTEE. Ive done
all this for others. I can do it for you. Get the PROOF—send for my amazing new book-
now; it’s FREE.
TEAR THIS OUT—SEND NOW
IT
IS
ALFRED J. BRITON, Dept. H, 82 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Please send me absolutely FREE and
without any Obligation on my part whatsoever, a
copy of your'latest book, “The'Secrets of Muscular
Strength—And How to Acquire It,” I enclose 6d.
in stamps for postage.
NAME
FULL ADDRESS .
STATE
(Please Write or Print. Very Plainly.)
ë
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C.' WILLIAMSON, LTD.
ll’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: HOLD
EVERYTHING.
ROYAL: MOVIES AND TALKIES.
(Commencing Saturday.)
CRITERION: LOMBARDI. LTD.
PALACE: IT PAY'S TO ADVERTISE^
DICKARDS’ TIV O L 1 THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
* MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
SHOW BOAT.
ROYAL:
JOURNEY’S END.
ING ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
WHOOPEE.
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
** MELBOURNE.
WHITE SHADOWS.
With RAQUEL TORRES.
ALSO
Talking and Sound Picture,
THE BACHELOR GIRL.
With JACQUELLINE LOGAN.
Position Wanted.
Administrative accountant, qualified, with
exceptional credentials and record, excellent
character and wide experience in office and business
organisation, desires an engagement where ability and
hard work would bear fruit. Moderate salary accept-
able. Full services available at fairly short notice.
J.S., c/o Bulletin Office.
Missing Friends.
TONES, JAMES SYDNEY, eldest son of
J late J. C. Jones, Mt. Keira, please com-
municate J. W. RUSSELL, Solicitor, Wol-
longong. Information his benefit.
Legal Notice.
TN THE SUPREME COURT OF
1 NEW SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1581 of 1926.
BETWEEN DAISY EMMA HENESS
Petitioner and HERBERT GLAN-
• VILLE HENESS Respondent
To HERBERT GLANVILLE HENESS
late of Erskineville. -
TAKE NOTICE that the said Daisy
Emma Heness has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is apply-
ing for a divorce on the ground that you
have without just cause or excuse wilfully
desprted her and without any such cause or
excuse left her continuously so deserted dur-
ing three years and upwards AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the twenty-eighth day of December 1929 and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstand-
ing. A copy of the Petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
solicitor free of charge.
DATED this twenty-seventh day of Sep-
tember, 1929.
For the Registrar,
(Signed) C. K. BODY (us.),
Chief Clerk in Divorce.
Robert William Fraser, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, Commonwealth Bank Chambers,
114 a Pitt Street, Sydney.
X
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
ANCONAS
Exhibition and Tested Stock, laying eggs up to 30oz.
to dozen. Winners of 12
Cups and Medals. Can supply
setting eggs and chicks at
all ages.
SICILIAN BUTTERCUPS
AND BARNEVELDERS.
Setting Eggs and Chicks.
Send for New Catalogue.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
L. DEVINE,
MYRA STREET,
WAHROONGA, N.S.W.
Wv
r •
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read It you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern Is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.


An Excellent ‘‘Table”
awaits you here!,
A pleasing Menu, good service
every convenience awaits you at \
reasonable rates at the Grosvenor,
I *! e P ! ’°°f> 300 rooms, 100 bathrooms,
yale locks. Tariff from £3/10/-.
“ed and Breakfast from 6/6.
Finest Unlicensed Jiolei
Opp. Railway Sfri. North Terrace. ADELAIOE
HOW A SHILLING GROWS
One shilling per week deposited regularly in the Common-
wealth Savings Bank will, in years, reach a total of £lOO
—provided that the deposits are regular and the interest is
allowed to remain in the Savings Account,
Here, however, is the real point. Of the £lOO mentioned in
this example, you deposit only a little over £6l. The Common-
wealth Savings Bank provides the balance in compounded
interest— over one-third of the total.
Idle money earns no profit. Set your shillings to earning as
well as accumulating.
Cbminonwcaltb Savings Bank of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
Without a food your
hair will fall
Modern methods of living make it difficult for
Nature to carry out her work, for we wash
away the natural oil which protects and feeds
the hair.
The lack of this natural oil frequently spells
thin and grey hair, and, often, baldness.
Rowland’s Macassar Oil stimulates the growth
and nourishes the hair while supplying the
necessary oil. -
antfs
Macassar Oil
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.I,
ENGLAND.
Of nil Chemists,
Stores and
Hairdressers.
The Miracle.
INTRODUCES US TO LOVE-MAKING ON THE UPPER
SEPIK IN NEW GUINEA.
ANDIMARI liked toiling in the gardens.
It was man’s work. He dug with his
pointed wooden stick and loved the
smell of the moist earth. The garden was
the village pride, rich under the tropic sun
with its taro, its sweet sugar-cane and
tobacco, its yams trellised on bamboo rails.
The grunting laughter of the tribesmen
drifted across the Cultivation as they toiled
half-hidden among broad-leafed banana
plants. For Andimari was a Chauash, a
wild man of,- the swamps, and his tribe, in
common with the majority along the Sepik
and in contradistinction to most other
peoples of New Guinea, toil in the gardens
while the women tend the fishing nets and
traps.
He had already done his lawful share of
work, and warily now he straightened. One
keen glance showed him the brown of the
tribesmen’s backs among the yellow-green
banana leaves. He snatched up his spear
and vanished into the surrounding grass,
grass that grows higher than dense fields of
maize. Quickly, noiselessly and in perfect
confidence he walked straight through the
bending forest.
The flat lands of the Sepik carry miles
upon miles of grass, grass, grass. Grass
often ten feet high, giant-stemmed and
-leafed, grass above a man’s head, below his
feet, grass for ever around and below his
canoe. ‘ k
Andimari, being in love, smiled.. He did
not understand love, but he felt its primal
urge Now lie was going, to see the lady—
he hoped. She would not see him ; if she
did he would be very like to lose his head
And he valued his head above all things
Every Sepik River .native does. Only one
thing does he prize almost as much, and that
is some other man’s, head.' For the most
confirmed and numerous headhunters in ah
the world live to-day in that country ol
the Upper Sepik; 26,000 have been cen-
sused, but there are as many again who
have never seen a white man. At Ambunti,
the furthest Government station, some 235
miles up the river, the edict lias been boomed
across the swamps that all headhunting
must cease. But what are four white men
against the instincts of 50,000 savages?
Andimari hurried cautiously, his fierce
eyes eager, his features handsome in their
alertness. His body was quite naked, but his
hair was carefully oiled into long, dogtail
wisps. A treble row of shells plaited as a col-
lar adorned his strong round throat. He was
powerfully built, as many of the Sepik men
are, his chest and arms developed to per-
fection by a. life of water-work. Though his
body flaunted a warrior’s weals, he did not
wear the flying-fox skin, proud badge of
the killer. He carried a twelve-foot spear
of limbon wood.
He paused, sniffing, with a slight swaying
movement of his head; and thus he could
vision distance as through a vast trembling
latticework. But he saw nothing but
grass, grass, grass. Yet presently he smelt
something-—a pig. Quite definitely, though
it was rooting a long way off. It was a boar,
not a sow; and by the smell, too, he could
tell it was of good eating age.
Andimari pushed on, loath to leave that
boar unslain. But his eyes smiled to a
quickened remembrance of other things as at
the swamp edge he stepped into his canoe.
It was a clever little canoe, even though
a white man would have -sneered at it as a
flimsy dug-6ut. Ten feet long it was, and
so narrow that, when Andimari sat in it he
protruded beyond each gunwale. Of tough,
light wood, it had been burned, then chipped
out with a tool of stone until it was a
buoyant shell. Both ends were bevelled and
pointed. Andimari’s weight sent the stern
perilously close to the water line, but the
bow rose up so : that when he dipped his
broad-bladed paddle the tiny craft shot
ahead, gliding over what would otherwise
have been clogging grass. Handily placed
was a long bamboo pole, light but strong.
Andimari now used the paddle, for the water
was twenty feet deep, even though much of
it was grass.
I have been canoed across that spreading
swamp and the only clear water I saw was in
patches of a few acres encircled by grass
tall and waving, growing on floating islets.
On every floating log was the mud-grey
motionless form .of a wary crocodile. My
canoeman again and again shot through a
lane of grass that brushed his face before the
canoe spun out into another open-water
space, often so small that it held only one
log and one crocodile. While we were in the
open, the blue sky was brilliant, the hum
of insects loud and the birds noisy as tin?
aatives Pf dled throa f h thei J favol \ te
mg grounds. Over all was the harsh, snns-
man-made boom of a garramut.
After fln hour of m i racul ously swift
travelling, Andimari shot into a dense wall
of pit-pit grass. Straight on he went
through that packed forest of stalks and
leaves, a warm picture of humankind tri-
umphing over unfriendly Nature.
He picked up the bamboo pole and stood
with one j planted firmly before the other.
This part of tbe journey was through
shallow water, the grass too dense to allow
the use of the paddle.
As the raised nose of the vessel slid over
the submerged grass it sharply poked a
way through the standing stalks, a way
which widened as the canoe followed, like a
p i oVl gh pushing aside two solid walls whose
SW aying tops brushed easily off Andimari's
heaving shoulders, to rustle up close again
be hind the canoe. A white man would have
been lost i n this appalling tangle. But
Andimari needed no compass to go swiftly
and straight to his objective. For those
animal-men have the homing instinct of the
pigeon.
Presently his eyes showed wariness, he
breathed almost fearfully, his heart ham-
mered. He was drawing very near to his
beloved—and death. And the fear of death
makes the wild man’s blood course madly,
He crouched as he poled slowly forward,
his ears noticeably distended, his square-
jawed face- thrust out over liis chest, his
temple veins swelling—as he smelt, smelt,
for men.
Then he crouched down on his haunches
and poled slowly, very slowly, the grass just
gliding along the sides of the canoe, the
leafy tops joining again with no rustle, no
movement that could not have been made
by the wind.
Then he halted, staring, listening, smelling.
A million mosquitoes hummed about him
unnoticed. The smells of soppy dankness,
of mildewing leaves, the heavy scent of
lilies —these came to him and he discarded
them all. Then his-nostrils and eyes dilated,
he breathed like an overwrought woman, his
blood raced, for he smelt—man !
Presently came ra/ distant -laugh that,
strangely enough, seemed to reassure him.
It was a man’s laugh, too, and was answered.
Andimari poled ever sq gently. With the
stealth of a crocodile’s snout, liis canoe
prow poked out through the edge of the
grass and stopped.
Before him was a barrad, a narrow, grass-
lined channel. This one had steep banks,
lily-edged. On one side, but invisible now
to the crouching man, was the big village of
Magdimbo. He could just see the tops of
its cocoanut and betel-nut palms and its
Kapiak trees. He shuddered at the grim
gables of- its huge Tambaran house, holder
of 406 skulls. He knew that if he stood
upright the village huts would come within
his vision as they sprawled among the palms
back from the barrad bank. Away across
on the opposite side were the gardens from
which came men’s voices, muffled by vege-
tation.
Crouching low, Andimari poled sharply
forward, his heart down in his belly, his
eyes staring up at the high banks. He had
run the gauntlet before under this terrible
love-urge.
If only the children kept plqying away
back in the village ! If only the men kept
working in the gardens!
Andimari flew along the barrad, poling
with superb strength while crouching low
in the canoe, every nerve tingling with
excitement and fear; at even the shadow of
a man ready to wheel and fly back for the
grass. He hissed past the canoes drawn
up on the channel banks, until ahead of
him a wall of grass spanned the barrad. He
slowed up so that lie might enter carefully,
then stopped when- he was concealed, his
heart thumping as he looked back at his
wake.
When the telltale ripples had quietened
he laughed within himself exultantly.
Eagerly ~he- poled forward again, his eyes
dancing with expectation. Very gently he
thrust his prow through the furthest side
of this wall, and stopped, his face all de-
light. Before him spread broad open water,
the surface massed with lily-leaves so large
that on any one of them a baby might play—
a water mat blazing blue and white with
flowers. Above it was ceaseless whistling
and quawking of wild ducks, with screech
of sulphur-crested cockatoos. Snow-white
ospreys fished in the distance, while grey
cranes looked solemnly on. The air was
languorous with scent of flowers.
Scattered over this picturesque waterway
were the, canoes of the women. But Andi-
mari saw only one, not fifty yards ahead.
In his happiest love-dreams he had never
imagined such luck. She was alone, bending
from the frail canoe to reach for a leunda
vine-rope lashed to a bamboo stake. A
vivacious smile to her pretty lips, girlish
expectancy in her eyes, she hauled on the
rope, perilously near to falling into her
reflection. Andimari gazed entranced at her
prettiness, envying the sun that kissed her
rich brown skin and bathed her little breasts
and rounded limbs.
He could have laughed aloud with her
as she drew in the trap of latticed cane.
The flapping of the prisoned fish came to
him, sharp and distinct.
He watched her with a longing that be-
came a physical pain as she drew yet closer,
tending the line of staked traps. If' only
he could pounce on her with one sure; sleep-
giving blow, and then steal away, regardless
of the terror of- his tribesmen as-lie brought
her home ! But too well he knew that in
so doing he would outrage tribal laws, and
the heads of the men of Chauash would
decorate the Tdmibaran of their more numer-
ous neighbours of Magdimbo.
So near and yet so far! Andimari gazed
wistfully—the girl was so desirable!
If only he could become a great tul-tul,
if only he could command many fighting
men, if only he could canoe with pomp into
this- haughty people’s village and see their
headmen gaze on him in sullen fear!
He sighed and Lapsed into deeper dream-
ing, for no power on earth could bring his
dream true. But dreaming sweetened a
little the bitterness of the impossibility.
He mused on the great benevolent spirit,
and he prayed, unrealising that he- prayed.
Well he knew the devil spirits of the Tarn-
bar an ; but apart from these there was (his
mother had whispered it to him) some dim,
mystic Spirit that breathed over the great
swamps, some Spirit which, though never
seen, actually loved men!
So Andimari dreamed himself almost into
unconsciousness, the reeds caressing his
motionless body, his heart crying for the
girl Avho smiled out amongst the fishing
traps.
A distant call startled him to the present
and to thoughts of his head. It was the
call for the women to return and cook the
men’s evening meal. One thrust of the
pole and lie disappeared into the grass and
emerged back into the barrad, his heart in
his mouth. One swift glance showed him
that all was yet clear. He sped arrow-swift
down the water-lane, his haste betraying him
into momentarily standing upright.
A returning gardener saw only his head,
but it was enough. A piercing cry echoed
over the village. Throwing discretion to the
wind, Andimari put his frenzied strength on
the pole and thrust with the speed of a
great fear. Water hissed from liis -canoe
prow; piercing calls echoed from village to
gardens; men were running, children
screaming.
Andimari burst straight into the grass
ahead, which lashed his body as it swished
together behind him. Far over the swamps
boomed the garramut of Magdimbo. Again
it boomed, again and again, monotonously
and ceaselessly, calling its lean brown hounds
to the man-hunt.
Sweat beaded from Andimari as he sped on
and on, gasping in mouthfuls of mosquitoes,
while the grass whined as he sped through
and through.
Could they follow him right to the village?
Would his love for a woman bring all his
kinsmen’s heads to grin from the peaked
gables of Magdimbo?
In an agony of remorse he sped on. His
wake would close up behind him, but the
wrack would accumulate in a thin, telltale
line.
He burst through the grass into open
water, and was paralysed with astonish-
ment. Instinct at the last moment forced
liis arms down on the pole, and he swerved
with a side-on crash into a great canoe of a
size and shape undreamed of. Brawny brown
arms snatched him aboard, and he lay inert,
gazing up at men who took no notice of him,
the setting sun gleaming on what he well
knew were rifle barrels.
A long canoe burst through the grass,
followed instantly by another and another.
The leading canoe grazed the bow of the
pinnace, the second shot by the stern before
the savage crews bent to their poles, and in
a welter of tortured water and gurgling lily-
leaves swerved almost in their own length in
a frantic dash back to the grass. From
twenty throats arose a long-drawn, curdling
howl. A fourth canoe, bursting from the
grass, heard, slowed down, then thrashed
the grass, and disappeared.
A sigh of disappointment came from the
uniformed police. Colonel Woodman, Dis-
trict Officer at Ambunti, on the Upper Sepik,
now sitting in the stern of the pinnace,
dressed in whites, with the glittering Govern-
ment badge in his helmet, watched with quiet
satisfaction the perfect discipline of his own
savages.
The pinnace flaunted the Australian blue
ensign, a flag that is recognised as the
limit of Power by 30,0(H) brown men on the
Sepik. Andimari gazed speechless at the
constabulary in their white-covered caps,
blue lap-laps, scarlet cummerbunds around
their waists.
Sergeant Remuna grunted, then spoke
sharply to Andimari. Andimaid did not
understand. He had never seen a white
man before; these strange things about him
might have fallen from the moon. But the
sergeant had a way with him, and presently
the half-caste Malay at the wheel swung
the pinnace around and it headed through
the grass towards Andimarils village.
That night, snug within his mosquito-
proof cabin, the D.O. made an entry in liis
diary: “Great luck late this afternoon. A
sudden boom of garrimuts when we were
reconnoitring in the heart of an unmapped
swamp. Sergeant Remuria translated it as
a man-hunt. I held the pinnace broadside
on, and presently, almost as if sent by
Providence, a hunted Chauash burst from
the grass, closely pursued by some unknown
villagers of a higher culture, judging by
their head-dresses and canoes. I am in the
Chauash man’s village now. The people have
deserted, of course, but I’ll have them under
Census pretty shortly. Then I’ll take the
Chauash as guide to the village of his pur-
suers, and thus place two new villages under
control. The Chauash was going like a
hunted dog when he bumped into us, but he
will return under Government, and I am
looking forward to the show he will make
when he re-visits his would-be murderers in
triumph.”
ION IDRIESS
The First-footers.
Whose be these bearded faces,
And whose these weathered hands,
Which, from the outer spaces,
Stand as on border lands?
Whose be these forms that gather,
Hager and yet retreating,
Set to depart, yet loath
In wistfulness of meeting?
These are the rude first-footers,
Who, ere a road was marked,
Fiercely, and as free-booters,
Took what no hand had clerked;
These are the, men who, grasping.
Seised as the eyes commanded;
Nameless and tombless, yet
They made the land, fore-handed.
Hell had no power to hold them,
These ghosts for Hades named;
Lucifer first enrolled them,
Left them the still untamed;
N.S.W.
Hither they came, earth-wandering,
A $ beasts enchained, defiant,
Who broke their chains as men,
And faced the world, reliant.
They were the dread beleaguered,
They were the black-defamed,
Who, though their gaunt frames
meagered,
Mocked at what law acclaimed.
Ships held them not, nor prison,
Nor stormy seas affrighted;
Death-driven they deemed death but
A camp with fire unlighted. .
Savage icas all their going;
Theirs teas a brutal prime;
Dark arc their faces showing,
Yet darker still their time.
Dark were their deeds. But, hark ye!
A road they made before us;
They were the pioneers,
We follow as the chorus.
MARY GILMORE.


Hanking, Public Companies, etc,
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. ••
Preference Shares .. .. • • 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares ..
Ordinary Shares . - - • • •
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
front Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/-per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
AI,L AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Übe
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily .
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion" is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
w HAIR
» EED
here's
e
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
Sfrolhms CMEXICAN)
KkUtud Stain
Removes the grey'*
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (-5/6), Ctd. being postage.
fp
J\
k:
è
Shipping, etc,
IS
-ft
v zsm
aiis:
ja!s!rr;.|SWi«i
hHHI
F9&ee«tS@.
V
XT,
; ll viji*J
Suntm
<7*
Wa;
NOW you may see Hawaii
and shoot the breakers
in the matchless surf of
Waikiki Beach. And indeed
no more desirable holiday can
be planned than a Union
Company Excursion Tour to
Hawaii that lovely island lost in the South Seas, lazy and laughing in
sunshine. Canadian-Australian Liners, now commencing summer excursion
runs, will carry you with comfort and enjoyment through calm seas, opening
the fascinating book of travel at New Zealand, Fiji and Honolulu. Plan
to sail on one of the following dates:—
November 14 December 12 January 9 February 6
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINE
Excursions to Hawaii
•<vV 7 7*!
bttmi iriunnn»
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
JAVA
(The Land of Eternal Sumner).
OLD BUDDHISTIC AND HINDUISTIC TEMPLES—NATIVE BAZAARS.
EXCELLENT BIG-GAME SHOOTING. BEAUTIFUL TROPICAL SCENERY.
EXTENSIVE TEA GARDENS. INTERESTING PEOPLE.
Regular monthly sailings by the favorite vessels
“MARELLA” (7500 tons) and “MALAEAR” (5000 tons).
Pacifto Island Excursions
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Lord
Howe Island, Norfolk Island and New Hebrides.
TRIPS OF FROM TWO TO FIVE WEEKS’ DURATION.
Make your selection now and Book Early.
Apply to
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, -&■ Brisbane, Adelaide.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
é
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20,900,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30. 1928, £88,982,585.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVfDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
554 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Dills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Queensland’s Greatest Advertising Medium,
15hQ
BRISBANE COURIER
Carries more advertising than two other Brisbane dailies combined.
“COURIER”
for 6 months,
Ending June 31, *29
—14,216
Advertising
Columns.
Two other Dailies
for same period
—13,758
Advertising
Columns.
The "Brisbane Courier” is the largest and most reliable financial,
commercial and home paper in Queensland.
First in Circulation, Coverage, Advertising and Influence.
Published by THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER CO.,
Courier Building, Queen Street, Brisbane.
Syd. Rep.: ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Shipping, etc.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*§Ulysses . . 15,000 tons, Oct. 23
fCeramic . . 18,500 „ Oct. 29
*Themistocles 11,500 ~ Nov. 20
*First class only. t“Cabin” class only. §Via Suez.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson Ltd.
sjueSv
»uior
f
i
Splendid Cheap Service
Via Suez Canal.
FAST OIL BURNERS
Fares to London from £3B.
To Colombo from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued from Sept, to Feb., £32-
P. g 0. BRANCH SERVICE
SPACIOUS DECKS—DECK CABINS —EXCELLENT
MENU —CINEMA- —DANCE MUSIC REPRODUCED
WITH ELECTRIC AMPLIFIERS —SWIMMING BATH
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 86701
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
SiS. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passenger*
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Set*.
BRISBANE.
fares.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/*/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALL.IS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart Parker LiM
Magnifloent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars appIyHUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Keep hopping and loping if you wish
to succeed — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Ctia
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridie Street. Sydney.
ê
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
% §§sk W ster
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors —
COUNSEL™ BOOTH ft HOMICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
_ , , __ further substantial increases.
The 7 notable success of Australian Journalism
for
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
limited,
ADELAIDE. _____


flight- r „
for& Lifetime’s
Writing’
e
A useful companion to the
"SWAN " pen. It has a
thin lead which requires
no sharpening,and is useful
for presentation purposes.
Prices from
7/6
c*
(91
m
u
K
XT'
A PPRECIATION of a
“Swan” Pen in-
creases with lengthening
years of service. One
by one its many good
qualities, inbuilt by high
manufacturing skill and
careful workmanship
become apparent to the
owner.
You cannot buy a pen
which will give you better
value. You cannot use a
pen. which will give
greater dependability
and usefulness. For the
“Swan” Pen, once it en-
ters your service, will
remain with you for a
lifetime.
Choose it now —use it a lifetime
“ Swan ” Self Pens from 17/6 upwards.
MABIE, TODD & CO.. LTD.,
Head Office : Swan House, 133 & 135, Oxford St., London, W.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Deptt:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
“Swan " Pens, “ Blackbird" Pens, “ Swan ” Ink and
“Fyne-Poynt” Pencils.
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS.
i *
- :
NOW NEATLY CASED at same price!
A strongly-made grained-leather case is now provided with every Plum
Razor, at no increase in cost. With its blade set to perfection— guaran-
teed and kept in order for two years free—the Plum Razor shaves cleanly*
easily, quickly—leaves the most delicate skin smooth and comfortable.
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Real Ivory Handle 21/- „
Satin-lined double case free with pair.
7-day Sets—7 Razors in Case.
Black, 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory, 140/-
Post free to any address.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
FPLI
The McGillicuddy.
CHARLES BLAKE
MEETS AND FAREWELLS A PICTURESQUE
GENTLEMAN OF THE PRESS.
MY introduction to the McGillicuddy was
characteristic and full-flavored. It fell
upon a New Year’s Day that has had
more than twenty successors. I was the re-
porter of a Maoriland small-town newspaper,
doing the Caledonian Society’s sports at the
local show-grounds. I was embittered, and
with good reason. It was a three-man job by
any rule or calliper, and all I had to help
me was Hoolihan, who did the football notes
for the rag in between clerking in a land-
agent’s office.
Hoolihan, though the day was young, had
paid a great many visits to the secretary’s
tent, and now sprawled beside me making
weird hieroglyphs that he fondly believed,
brave soul, represented an account in Yere
Foster’s scrip of the cawber-putting, dancing
aud pibroching exploits of various Gaels. I
knew better, and had just aroused the sec-
retory from an alcoholic dream of grandeur
—tqe creature’s name was McTavish—had
appropriated his records, filled in the hiatus
between his last entry and his collapse, and
was prepared, inasmuch as Hoolihan and
McTavish were good fellows, to shoulder
both their burdens. That was all in the
day’s work, but I was engaged to be married
and my sweetheart was on the grounds. I
had promised to take her in to lunch (on
my press tidket, of course), but I had missed
duff tryst scouring round on behalf of
Messrs. Hoolihan and McTavish, and I was
—there’s only one word to express it—
ropahle.
I was scribbling furiously at a little table
near the judges’ stand when a great shadow
fell athwart the sunlight. I looked up to
see a man, old, but very massive and erect
and martial in his bearing, clad in the
gaudiest tartan it has ever been my lot to
see. It was composed of three sorts of
reds with yellow and blue lines marking off
latitude and longitude. Accompanying this
alarming pattern were a black velvet jacket
with diamond-shaped silver buttons, an
enormous cairngorm as shoulder-knot, a
silver-mounted sporran, and silver-mounted
knives stuck into socks of the gaudy tartan.
Surmounting a face like the rising moon,
fringed with grizzled whiskers, was a canoe-
shaped hat —what, I believe, is called a
Glengarry. The wearer of all this regalia
thrust under my nose a card.
“I’m sorry,” I said very coldly, “but I’m
very busy.” The pasteboard remained under
my nose. “Read it, ye dommed fule!”.
boomed a husky voice. I read it: —
JAMES RODERICK McGILLICUDDY,
Editorial Staff,
“Whangaruka Chronicle.”
I had always cherished a hazy notion that
McGillicuddy was an Irish name, but this
seemed to prove that I was mistaken.
“Pleased to meet you, Mr. McGillicuddy,”
I said as affably as I could manage. “Are
you doing the meeting?”
“I am not,” he snapped, not to my sur-
prise, since Whangaruka was a long way
away, and not at all likely to take any
interest in the affairs of our village.
‘ Well, then,” I said resignedly, “I’ll in-
troduce you to the secretary, Mr. McTavish.”
A largo hand was raised in protest. “Ah’ve
met McTavish,” declared McGillicuddy; “a
puir weak-stomached loon that canna hold
pUid whusky. He lies yonder in his tent,
even as the beasts that perish. An’ he's
lockit up the whusky in a mucklo box.” As
a matter of fact, I had locked the box my-
self and had the key in my pocket, but I
didn’t tell McGillicuddy.
I went on writing and my new-found
acquaintance sat down on the bench beside
me and endeavored to fix me with a moist
and bloodshot eye. He told me how, with
a reckless disregard for expense, he had in-
duced a neighboring woollen factory to weave
Jo? him his remarkable plaid—“the true Mc-
Gillicuddy”—and he also informed me that
he had fought with the Black Watch in the
Crimean War. He then left me abruptly.
Pieturning half an hour later (I was still
writing hard) he favored me with an account
of how he had introduced golf into Scotland
and founded St. Andrew’s links.
m the interim I had been informed that
McTavish had awakened to discover that his
precious box had been broken open. I had
my reasons for connecting McGillicuddy with
the outrage.
Later in the afternoon, when there was
a lull in the proceedings occasioned by a
gathering of the judges in McTavish’s tent,
which had been replenished by supplies from
the nearest pub, I found time for a few
words with my prospective bride. She was
more amenable to reason then than she has
Proved on some later occasions, sympathised
with my hard lot, and informed me that
' such a nice old gentleman in a pink tar-
tan” was helping Mr. McTavish.
“What’s he helping him at?” I inquired
a trifle savagely.
She laughed. “When I came past just
now,” she said, “they were making a duet
of ‘Scots Wha Hae’!”
I saw no more of the McGillicuddy for
“any a day thereafter. Then I joined the
■sthff of the Whangaruka Chronicle, and
on my second day in that office a very large
and very shabby figure sat beside me as I
{mat a typewriter, and I heard related, in
husky undertones, certain incidents in the
hf?s Q ueen Victoria and Albert Edward,
I rince of Wales, which seem to have escaped
the attention of all their biographers.
It was the McGillicuddy.
Encouraged by the fact that I took no
notice of him whatever and went on typing
stolidly, he disclosed, very confidentially, that
heAvas the discoverer of the Venus de Milo,
which he had found in a not at all nice sort
of house in Liverpool, and he wound up his
recital with an outline of the motives that
inspired him to elope with a circus tight-
rope walker, the wife of a lion-tamer, in
Rumania in 1866.
I asked one of the other reporters what
position McGillicuddy had on the paper.
Copyholding just now, I think,” was the
reply. “Has he told you yet how he won
the battle of Hastings?”
Poor old McGillicuddy! ITe was the most
fantastic, shameless and gratuitous liar I
ever met, and the most transparent. He
had his good points, too. He never bor-
rowed money, did his work well, was a
great stickler for correct English usage, and,
save when he got his tartans on and atten-
ded some Highland celebration, moderate in
his drinking. But his lapses were thorough.
One moonlight night a group of Chronicle
reporters, crossing a square that contains
a tramway loop, saw, marching steadily
round and round the circuit, a tall figure
in tartan. It was Mac. following the tram-
lines home.
His martial exploits, which he numbered
by dozens, were supported, so to speak, on
great occasions by a copious array of medals.
One night, in the bar of the Masonic, an
irreverent listener to the old man’s tales
of derring-do reached out his hand to turn
over one of the medals. Mac lunged at him
fiercely with the blackthorn stick he always
carried. “Tak’ your dirrty hands off ma
decorations!” he roared. “Men have been
killed for less.” Hate that night Mac. slum-
bered unashamed in the reporters’ room. One
of the reporters tiptoed over and inspected
the rewards of valor. “Champion Leghorn
Rooster, A. E. Jones, 1895,” was the legend
on one. Another had started life as an
exhibition token and a third was an ancient
crown piece. But we never let on to Mac.
that we knew what they were.
It may seem strange, particularly to
people who had not the benefit of Mac’s
acquaintance, but during all the years I
was with the Chronicle, though we had
some pretty tough birds on the staff at times,
I never heard the old chap challenged or
affronted, however daring his inventions. In
the light of what happened later that is
something we are all, I suppose, more than
a little thankful for.
The Chronicle, like most other Maoriland
newspapers large or small, ran a job-print-
ing and binding business as a side-line, and
it's stereo department catered for both
branches of the business. The stereo fore-
man was a bewhiskered autocrat named
Hobson. He had the advantage over his
employers in that they knew next to nothing
of the art and mystery of stereotyping, and
his overtime dockets were a sight for sore
eyes. He insisted on starting work at six
in the morning, and midnight not infre-
qeuently found him at the post of duty. What
he did with himself all that time was a
matter of speculation to many, but Hobson
until a certain fateful morning had always a
plausible excuse, or at least one that satisfied
the manager, for the protracted extent of his
labors. On the morning Hobson signed on,
as usual, at six, lit the gas furnace that
melted his metal, and then, in accordance
with what must have been an old-established
custom, locked up and went home for break-
fast, intending to return a few minutes
before eight, when the jobbing hands would
come on duty.
By some mischance a lot of shavings from
the blocks on which small stereos were
mounted had been swept under the furnace
and a tin of benzine lay handy. Flakes of
red-hot soot fell from the gasrings, and for
some time before eight o’clock a fierce fire
must have been burning in the stereo-room,
which was in the basement. The only door
was locked, two small windows were closed,
and there was no outward indication of
a fire that had obtained a terrific hold until
Jones, the jobbing foreman, and his people
arrived on the top floor at eight. Jones’s
first task of the day was to haul up from
the basement a little lift, containing stereos
for jobbing use. It was followed on this
occasion by a blast of flame that seemed to
come from a gigantic blow-pipe.
While Jones dashed off madly to the
hydrant and hose, with which each floor was
equipped, the flames charred through a
wooden dividing-wall and burst into the
bindery, where there were forty girls at
work. The shop was a clutter of paper clip-
pings, cardboard boxes, gluepots and other
inflammable stuff, and it was soon blazing
merrily.
The girls, shrieking, rushed to the iron
fire-escape, their only means of entrance
and exit, but recoiled panic-stricken when
they found that the fire had burst through
the stereo-room windows and was surround-
ing the escape with flames and suffocating
smoke. Jones, having turned on the hydrant,
endeavored to unwind the big stiff hose. He
was a little man and much flurried, and he
got himself tangled with the hose in a
manner that McGillieuddy, who arrived on
the scene at that juncture, said reminded him
of the Laocoon. He disentangled Jones, and
then, hearing the screams of the trapped
girls, looked round for something with which
to break the wooden wall that hemmed them
in. He could find nothing, and suddenly
rushed down four flights of stairs to the
front door and out into the street, leaving
Jones open-mouthed and disgusted.
But McGillieuddy wasn’t intent on saving
his own skin. The factory fire-escape was in
a narrow' right-of-way, on the other side of
which fronted the windows of a hotel.
Stacked in the right-of-way was a pile of
long planks left by workmen, who were con-
creting the thoroughfare. Seizing two of
these in his powerful old hands McGilli-
euddy, using them as a battering-ram, burst
in the private door of the hotel, and rushed
upstairs, trailing his timbers behind him.
H'e found the window, luckily a corridor one,
that faced the top platform of the fire-escape,
pushed his two planks across so that thev
formed a precarious sort of bridge, and called
to the girls to come out.
What with the crackling of the fire and
their own din they could not hear him, so
old Mac. without more ado scrambled across
his bridge into the bindery and literally drove
forth the scared occupants. The plank
bridge was a scarce two feet in width and
there was a drop of sixty feet to the pave-
ment, but, made reckless by fear as they
were, most of the girls managed to nerve
themselves for the ordeal and got safely
across. But a few absolutely refused to
budge, and old McGillieuddy. setting like a
rat-trap a mouth that had long been slack
and weak, picked them up one after the other
and plunged with them, kicking and
(Continued on next page.)


The e€/MRD LINE o/BCAIITy
—
- '
m Wmm
mmsm
m
■
■
■■i
* W 4
J ,
, Jg
m
wmm
I
tr \*?;
*1
WHIS
M
■
A satin brocade step-in. The sides are of
hand-loomed elastic, the front and back
lined with lightly boned sateen.
ADD/ DA/D lON ABLE
MCDLD T© INNEB
CD D’VE/ AND
LINE/
So quickly smoothed—curves
that are slightly bulging—when
you wear Gossard foundations#
Your favoured dresses have
their same smart lines, your
figure and posture that feeling
of slim grace that must not be
lost if you are to be fashionable#
Ask to see the various types of
Gossard foundations—hooka-
rounds, step-ins, solitaires, com-
binations, front-lacing corsets,
and brassieres*
The Canadian H* W. Gossard Co., Ltd.
, 114-120 Castlereagh Street
SYDNEY, N. S. W.
tJ TJ -p \/f p| R E
gossards ARE MAD E 3 WITHIN THE _
struggling with all their might, across that
narrow span, the boards sagging and spring-
ing under the heavy burdens.
Though he had worked like a tiger—Jones
gave evidence later that between McGilli-
cuddy’s arrival in the office and the rescue
of the last girl only seven minutes elapsed—-
he was none too soon. On the last journey
there came a dull explosion as the window’s
of the lower floors burst, and Mac. made his
final dash enveloped in bright flame. He
collapsed as he crossed the window-sill
remarking, gallant to the end: “It’s naething
at all, lassies; juist a wee twinge o’ iaa
hairrt.”
He was carried off to hospital while six
fire-engines fought with Whangaruka’s biggest
blaze, suffering, as the Chronicle , put it,
from “burns and shock.” It was known from
the outset there was no hope for him.
Apparently he had no relatives in Maori-
land, and, outside the office, no friends.
Three of us —he had asked for us by name —
were allowed to see him. His face and hands
were swathed in bandages and one eye was
covered, but he could speak in a sort of
broken whisper. If he had any recollection
of the exploit that had laid him low he
didn’t show it. Instead he beckoned _us
close and whispered: “Puts me in mind,
laddies Miss Nightingale’s hospital
when I was.... Black Watch... .there was
a verra pretty.... nurrse”....
And so, with a ghostly twinkle in his un-
covered eye and his last romance barely
launched, McGillicuddy left us.
The Wake.
A HUMOROUS TRIFLE BY “HINEMOA.”
WE were all sitting round the table
when Pat came in. The rain was
pouring from his coat, and his trou-
sers were sopping wet from the knees down-
ward. When he had changed he joined us
at the table, and after he had disposed of
soup, meat and vegetables, he seemed more
inclined for speech.
“Mick Athy’s dead,” lie said.
“Glory be, and God rest his soul,” said
Ma. “Whin did he die?”
“Early this evening,” replied Pat, “and
I bet Paddy Athy’s jolly glad.”
“Niver shpeak evil o’ the dead,” Ma ad-
monished, “and don’t be afther repeatin’
everything you hear.”
“I was only telling you what Paddy said,”
Pat answered.
“That’s all right thin,” said Ma, “and
whin you’ve finished your supper, we’ll get
our coats on and go to the Athys to pay our
respecs.”
“In this rain?” we all exclaimed.
“The rain don’t worry the dead,” said
Ma, “so for why should it shtop the livin’?”
We dawdled over the crocks. Pat declared
he couldn’t go, because he hadn’t another
raincoat. Molly, wlio’d had the ’flu, said
she would not stay in the house alone, with
a soul wandering round unburidd. After
a lot of talking Pat was detailed to stay
with her. The other eight of us buttoned
ourselves into raincoats, pulled on old hats
and goloshes, and with four umbrellas and
a lantern went into the squelching night.
The Athys lived three-quarters of a mile
away by road, but there was a track which
cut the distance to half a mile. There
wasn’t any protection anywhere, although
one was not as likely to' get quite as wet
walking along the road as by the track,
which wasn’t built for two, and the grass
either side was long and drooping.
_ As we shut our gate the whole country-
side was lit by lightning, and almost im-
mediately thunder rumbled and hammered
overhead. Wee Dohney clung to me.
“Old Mr. Athy must be a bad man,” she
said. “God seems pretty upset because
he’s arrived.”
“But maybe he isn’t there yet,” said Brian.
“How long does it take to get from here
to Pleaven, Ma?” he asked.
“It depinds on the' length uv your sins,”
she told us. . ~, t j ( i.
“I bet old Athy’s going to have a bit o’
trouble, then,” said Brian. ■■ • - -• 1
“Haven’t I ,told you niver to speak evil o’
the dead?” said Ma_,She was going to add a
lot more, but thunder drowned her words.
A terrific gust of wind lashed us all.
The rain fell in torrents. Dohney hung
to me. and I clung to the umbrella. Then
something hit me at the back of the knees,
and I went slithering in the mud, with the
child on top of me.
“I don’t see why old Mr. Athy had to
die on a night like this,” Dohney whim-
pered, “though Kitty Athy said he was
terrible.”
Then I heard Ma calling in distress,
“Chareen ! Chareen ! Where are you?”
We blundered ahead in pitch darkness,
which seemed blacker after the flashes of
lightning, and came across Ma fastened by
her coat to a barbed-wire fence.
“I’ve broke me best umbrella,” she wailed.
“It’s the one I bought Noreen Cronin for a
weddin’-present, and thin she died on me
before I could give it to her.”
“Where’s Brian?” I asked, as the two of
them had started out together, Ma holding
the umbrella and Brian the lantern.
“Glory be, I don’t-know!” Ma exclaimed.
“The wind took us both, but it took him
fashter.”
More lightning. With its help we suc-
ceeded in getting Ma’s coat free from the
barbed-wire. We also saw Moyra 4 Leo and
Con huddled together down the road.
Moyra called out, “Denis is a bit further
up, and he’s lost his umbrella. I’ve lost
me golosh, but it’s the one wit’ the hole in
the sole and don’t matter at all.”
There wasn’t any sign of Brian or the
lantern. We called out repeatedly, but as
we did not get any reply we went on. We
came to the track across the fields, and then
an argument started as to which was the
best way to go.
The boys wanted to take the track to
Athys, Ma wanted to go round the road. I
thought the road was best too. Moyra
thought we all ought to please ourselves.
Denis thought we all ought to keep together,
Leo suggested that the boys go by the track
and the girls by the road. Con said he
thought Dohney should go by the track, as it
wasn’t so far for her to walk. Dohney
wouldn’t go without me. Eventually Denis
thought he saw a light down the track, and
it must be Brian, who had gone on ahead
of us. Why that settled the argument I
don’t know, but it did, so we all set off
down the track.
We had gone a couple of hundred yards
when Ma, who was leading, collided with
someone coming in the opposite direction.
They hit each other so hard they both
grunted. Ma apologised profusely, and
hoped, she hadn’t done any hurt. It wasn’t
until the other party turned round and kicked
Denis that we realised it was one of the
Athy goats. Denis said things about old
Mick Athy which would have made him hot
on a cold night.
There was another flash of lightning. We
all saw something long and white and ghost-
like a few yards ahead of us. We
stopped in our stride and waited. There
was a gust of wind. The wraith rose in
aii_aM__came at us. Dohney and
I clutched each other. Moyra screamed. I
don’t know what Ma and the boys did, for
something cold and clammy gave me a sting-
ing slap across the face.
Leo exclaimed, “Well, I be damned!”
Ma said he was a blasphemous little divil.
“Well, look what’s shtruck us,’’ replied
Leo.
“Glory be!” said Ma. “What’s the good
uv us lookin’ whin we can’t see? And while
we’re seein’ maybe we’ll all be shtruck wit’
death.”
Again the sky was lit by lightning, and
it didn’t take Ma long to discover that the
ghost was one of her best sheets which
had blown off the line. She insisted on fold-
ing it up and carrying it.
“It’s just a wee shower, and will soon
pass,” said Ma.
But when she fell over a log we all hud-
dled down beside her, and tried to fit the
remaining umbrellas over us, while we
waited for the wee shower to pass. Our
conversation was limited.
“I don’t like sitting in a pool with my
clothes on,” said Doliney.
“The Lord sends the weather,” answered
Ma.
“I wonder where Brian got to,” Moyra
asked briskly, to change the subject.
“If his feet had any sense,” I said, “they’d
take him home.”
Later we found that was exactly what
they had done.
The rain and wind lulled, so we trudged
on.
Then Ma had trouble. When she fell
over the log she had wrenched all her sus-
penders from tlicir moorings, so her stockings
fell down over her goloshes. Leo cheered
her up by telling her that she could think she
was at Wimbledon, just going to play a
game of tennis before their Majesties.
“If Royalty had no worse legs than mine
to look at, they wouldn’t hurt at all,” Ma
said decisively.
“You’ve beautiful legs, Ma,” says Con,
“Every toime I look at them I feel hungry.”
“Will you be afther behavin’ yourself, or
it’s , the death of you I’ll be,” Ma answered.
At Jast we saw the Athy house through
the' gloom. Except for a glimmer in one
room the whole place was in darkness.
“That’ll be where the corpse is,” said Ma,
“and it’s glad I am they’re doin’ the thing
proper.”
‘-'I wonder if they’ll kill any of the
suckers,” remarked Denis. “They’ve got nine
or tqn beauties. They wouldn’t sell a-one
of them to the Corcorans when old-man Cor-
coran died, so they might ha’ been saving
them up for Grandpa Athy.”
Con knocked discreetly on the door. There
was ho answer, so he tried again, louder.
The rain continued to pour down on us.
At last the door wasi opened by Mick Athy’s
Pat’s wife.
“Come in, come in,” she says, “Fancy
coinin’ all this way on such a night. It’s
real neighborly you are. Did you know I
was alone with Grandfather?”
From down the passage a querulous voice
called, “Phwhat damn fools have come here
dis weather? Shut that blashted door. I
shuppose you’re trying to kill me wid the
dhraft?”
It was Old Mick Athy’s voice, and no
mistake.
“Isn’t he dead yet?” blurted out Denis.
“Brian told us he’d died late this afternoon.”
“Early this evenin’,” corrected Ma.
“No, I’m not did,” roared Old Mick Athy.
“They’re ahl wantin’ me to doie, but I’m
not goin’ to doie till I’ve found out what
killed Mick Athy. Some dirthy divil’s been
neglicting him, that’s what.”
We grasped what had happened. The Mick
Athy who was dead was Old Mick Athy’s
champion bull.
Of Quiet Beauty.
This calm green evenfall my song would be
Of quiet things—
Flushed, trancbd woodlands by a slumb’ring
sea
Swept with the wings
Of lingering sunsets; and blue havens deep
Where brown ships lie
Anchored, and slow, moth-haunted twilights
steep
The girdling high
Hills in old glamor; and more fair, more
fair
Than all these, seem
The quiet Muse, with starlight on her hair,
In fields of Dream.
N.S.W.
A. SMITH.
Dead Days.
é
N.S.W.
E. CRAWFORD.


e
WESTING HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
FHE WESTINGHQUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—liocaiJKs at CHURCH, Brisbane.
N Z Office—93-107 Featheraton Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
£V/i. WIIIKC
Victorian Office —
gontli Australian
'•Chancery House/’ 485 iiotirke Street, Melbourne.
Agents: Messrs. BLUER, SMITH & CO., CXI)., Adelaide.
S.A.
For Any Advertising Campaign in
Queensland Let Your First Choice Be
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
and its companion journal, “The Sunday Mail,”
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine.
“The Daily Mail” is the big morning paper with a
greater nett circulation than any other daily in the
State.
“The Sunday Mail” covers in one day the entire
metropolitan circulation of Brisbane’s four dailies.
For advertising rates and other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
£BB-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“THE AGE”
Established 185
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
No advertising campaign can be success-
ful if 'the quality of the product adver-
tised does not contain full value for
the price asked.
If your products can meet these require-
ments, “The Age” will prove a valuable
medium for creating goodwill, and
will considerably lessen the time in
moving them from storage to consumer.
Merchants and Manufacturers of quality
products in ever increasing numbers
are realising the truth of the slogan
“It Pays to Advertise,” and are direct-
ing their efforts in marketing through
the columns of “The Age” as a neces-
sary medium for business promotion in
Victoria.
Audited Net Daily Circulation
123,533.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price 1 Id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F, THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere —all over the State, in Town and
'Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and each
issue is eagerly read by men, women and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays. Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYLNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 223
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: ‘Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
fyti iigkt! tkd tight!
light!
M thow who take
fifidltUlM
Jk a,
p
>»««
*.«gfe2
r:
Worth a
Guinea
a Box.
:■ v *
. 8 m
U
Vol. 5
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 1. 1929.
.No 43
4&pilb
J
THIS WEEK’S FREE PATTERN
(See pasre 64)
A
New Serial
“ Enchantment”
By MYRA MORRIS
Begins in This
Issue
è
Over 160,000 Copies Sold Every Week
é
0
o
dp
0°
6 V
6
2-
?
\yy V
iwii


m
bsi
S'
H
I
'■X
m
<5
&
The Greater
HUDSON
ESSEX
The Challenger
e
NEVER BEFORE SUCH
OUTSTANDING VALUES
In performance, beauty, economy and
reliability —by whatever abilities you
judge a motor car—Essex the Challenger
and the Greater Hudson must exceed
your liveliest expectations. For these
two fine Super-Sixes have shattered
record after record in perform-
ance and sales.
Ask to see these beautiful big
cars, and drive them yourself.
Test them by any standards you
choose. Then you will know why
they are attracting world-wide
enthusiasm—why all motordom
is acclaiming Essex the Chal-
lenger and the Greater Hudson
the outstanding values of the year.
HUDSON PRICES AT SYDNEY.
5 Balloon Tyres Standard Equipment.
H udson— 12 2 in. Wheelbase.
Roadster (Imported Body) . . . . . . . . . . £5OO
Coupe (Imported Body) . . . . . . . . . . 535
Standard Sedan (Imported Body) . . . . . . . . 535
Tourer (Imported Body) . . . . . . . . . . 550
Tourer (Australian Body) . . . . . . . . 475
139 in. Wheelbase.
7 Passenger Phaeton (Imported Body) .. .. .. 630
7 Passenger Sedan (Imported Body) . . . . . . 775
ESSEX PRICES AT SYDNEY.
5 Balloon Tyres Standard Equipment.
Tourer (Australian Body) . . . . . . . . • • £290
Standard Sedan (Australian Body) . . . . . . 365
Standard Roadster (Australian Body) . . . . . . 290
Coupe (Imported Body) . . . . . . . . • • 385
Convertible Coupe (Imported Body) . . . • 395
Town Sedan (Imported Body, with bumper bars) . .
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
DALGETY & CO., LI
Phillip Street, Sydney.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
'* ; ' 1 „ • t u i ;
MOTORS LIMITED.,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Holbart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE-BUY
FROM
