

BLACK & WHITE
' . s& >"*.,,,«' --- ? r *>t-svz t
~' rv*;.- $ ‘'' .■- ’ - - .■■'*■■ ; ?
1 .1 •
mm
]
: m *■ >/.'! ’& \ r *. v, ■
' 'VC ',; ' v?^‘
•; >■ •
' ■■
ijf?
•• 'tr <, I ,
L. * ' ‘ ' ,-i „ 5 . ;,
Y * ' . / ’ ’j '
‘ •■<rV .I* &y> ■ , . mu...' a * ' 1 * 1 \. $ T
I ¥’.;•* -•
4. , , | * ' ’ ' V- ■ ‘ 3
•oa \ g
;»;■ ' 1 f- '■ ' ' '•' „4 -'
■; v*t i
SCOTCH WHISKY
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., 1 to 5 GROSVENQR STREET, SYDNEY.
The Bulletin
C (RlOuAsrf*
Vol. 50,—N0. 2555.
Wednesday, January 30, 1929.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post ae a Newspaper.


\Y/RITE for the library cata-
W LOGUE AND LISTS on all subjects,
which will be forwarded on application, post
to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Story
TKxs BooK FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, out
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
OLYS AG HT
3
O
R
m
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
eady! Cooked Spaghetti
• *
ready to
HEINZ
vJ.
Made
HEINZ CJSg/
z CO v ,
_ *,*o*-
Reasoned with Heinz
owntomatosauceand
a special cheese, there is a
real place in every home
for Heinz Cooked Spa-
ghetti. It is being eaten
everywhere today as a
main dish or as a vege-
table. A delicious meal
you can serve at once—
ready cooked. Merely heat
in the tin and enjoy.
H. J. HEINZ COMPANY
London, Eng. Pittsburgh, Pa. Toronto, Can*
one <>/*&! <57" varieties
1498
GRASP THE SHADOW ERE THE SUBSTANCE FADE
PIECE ME TOGETHER AND YOUR FORTUNE’S MADE.
TALE OF A LUCKY BLACK CAT—In Many Parts—Part One
a
Z 1
°E L
IS IS .
4
Q
ND At
WPX
'*o
TM
DM
TA
09,
se
o
an
as
'l3d
r*
The Nine Lives of a Cat in 23 Pieces
Behold me, King of the Luck Bringers! Mind
you, I’m not an ordinary Tom Cat that stays
out all night, so my scattered parts cannot be
attributed to the careful aim an rr , a *V ,oy ®„
citizen resenting a courtship with Tabby on
the Tiles. Among my family inl J® r *
a trick of being able to pull myself to pieces
at a moment’s notice, without disturbing my
genius for luck-bringing. Indeed, the Person
who can put me together again has all tne
luck. I have specially offered my services to
the N.S.W. Fire Brigades Art Union to test the
skill of the good people to whom I have
brought fortune and good luck for several
There Is money in this. In fact, there is a
fortune. All you have to do is to piece me
together so as to form a complete picture.
First send an application and enclose of
for a book of 6 tickets. This book
of tickets will be sent to you, together
with a leaflet containing my scattered parts,
looking just like the parts that appear in
this advertisement. You can sell or keep the
book of tickets, making a shilling on the
transaction. Or you can sell five and keep
one. The tickets are for the N.S.W. Fire
Brigades Art Union for £lO,OOO in prizes, the
first prize being a Solid Gold Helmet valued
at £3OOO, the largest prize for a shilling ever
offered in Australia. You may win this.
• Now comes your next piece of good fortune.
There will he a special distribution of £oo in
prizes among those who send back the lucky
black cat pieced together correctly. The
amount will be distributed among those who
give the correct solution—First Prize £~5,
Second Prize £lO, Third Prize £2, three
consolation prizes of £l, - ten consolation
prizes of 10/, and 20 consolation prizes of
5/. It is yours for the glad hand.
Register vour name at once. In addition, if you retain the 6th ticket, you may win
the £3600 prize, or any of the others. For six tickets you may win prizes valued at
over £5OOO, including a casket of diamonds, a diamond tiara, and seven motor cars.
The closing date for the Lucky Black Cat Competition is Saturday, March 30,-WOT.
It is the easiest piece of luck I have ever offered, and I have been in the luck
business since Noah ler me and Tabitha out of the Ark. wirp
Address all applications, with 5/ enclosed, to J. J. Neville, Hon. Secretary, Fire
Brigades Headquarters, 213 Castlereagh-rtreet, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES FIRE BRIGADES’ ART UNION
FOR HOSPITALS, AMBULANCES, AND CHARITY,
(Sanctioned by the Attorney-General)
£lO 000 in Prizes. The most stupendous Prize List ever drawn up. Tickets. One
Shilling. „ . ,
Six Tickets, 5/; Twelve Tickets, 10/; Twenty-five Tickets, £l.
A Ticket a Day Keeps Misfortune Away!
Send at one* State whether Mr., Mrs., or Miss. Enclosed stamped envelope
for result slip. Art Union Drawn on June 1, 1929.
J. J. NEVILLE. Hon. Secretary. _ . '
Fire Brigades Headouarters. 213 Castlereagh-strcct, Sydney, N.S.W.
Sure Death to All Insects.
THE TYPHOID FLY,
A Messenger of Death to Man.
Kill that Fly with
"MUSTDIE"
The Non-Poisonous Powder.
Kills Cockroaches, Fleas, Bugs,
Mosquitoes.
Sold everywhere, Chemists, _ Grocers,
Storekeepers, 1/- a tin.
Or forward 1/- in stamps to
BOX 1520 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
The House Fly
aptly
termed
the
Typhoid Fly
Showing tM
rough hairy
body and
head and
legs,, on
which
Microbe* o!
Disease adbei*
e
HILL
SHAT FLK
The Red Page
THE YORICK
I.—Gordon and His Friends.
Born into this world six years after the
Centaur Laureate’s death, I have yet been
able to see something of him, tangible and
real; a lock of hair forming a ring upon
white paper. From my father, this ring
passed to Grace Jennings Carmichael; from
Grace Jennings to God-knows-whotn. I
remember a Mrs. Lauder who sent McCrae
honey out of the country accompanied by
letters (interminably long) all about
Gordon; she it was who had cropped and
saved the treasurous curl.
Gordon appeal's a strange creature —-a
little touched perhaps; sometimes taci-
turn, sometimes emotional. He rode both
The Centaur Laureate.
well and badly;
he had to be
mounted on a
good stayer. He
took it out of his
horses. Trainers
and jockeys knew
him better than
other people; so
that, away from
the turf, among
the churches of
Collins-street, he
stalked solitarily;
hi s green-lined
wide-awake hat
and painted Wel-
lington boots
making him con-
spicuous wherever
he went.
If the spirit moved him he would join
Kendall or Walstab, and, unembarrassed,
recite verses in a monotonous voice for
hours at a stretch. Kendall, in mouldy
black, hugging an umbrella between his
knees, constituted an ideal listener—one
who dwelt on every word and criticised
justly.
The other aspect of Gordon, the devil-
may-care bushman, we know through Ham-
mersley’s anecdote; and it requires little
imagination to see him in the yard of the
Hunt Club Hotel, astride a diminutive cob,
using his legs like oars to paddle it forward.
Quixote on Sancho’s ass could not have
presented a more ludicrous figure.
Brittle-tempered; once, in a dispute
about horses, he pushed George Watson
down, and, kneeling on his chest, began
to strangle him. Watson worked free,
clubbed his riding-crop and, had not par-
tisans of both sides run between, might have
killed him. Months afterwards Mrs.
Gordon was thrown in the hunting field;
she became unconscious. Watson, dis-
mounting, stripped himself of his coat to
make a pillow; at the same time he sent a
boy with his cap to bring water from a.
creek. Some of the water he used for
washing her face; the rest was given her to
drink. Adam, half dazed from a similar
fall, staggered towards the couple. Marcus
Clarke, who was present, explained what
had happened and tried to steady him a
bit; but there was no withstanding the
ardent husband.
“Maggie! Maggie! Are you hurt?”
“Adam dear, it’s scarcely anything.”
Gordon lifted his wife’s head, and touched
the wetted coat. “Whose coat?”
Somebody answered, “Mr. Watson’s, sir.”
For a moment the men stood separated;
then, suddenly, their hands met, clapping
together with a joyful sound.
HUGH McCRAE.
Getting Published
An American critic, C. Hartley Grattan,
after having dealt drastically with Aus-
tralian literary achievements, has turned to
our economic problems. In the New
York Herald's literary supplement he sum-
marises these in such a way that his readers
must wonder how any books get written in
Australia at all.
It is difficult to get the truth about the
profits of publication from most writers.
They do not like to pull a poor mouth;
besides, they are as deeply imbued as any
suburbanite with the idea that sales and
literary merit coincide. Most of them would
rather die than confess that the profit
from their last book, reviewed so nicely
by a large number of papers, was not enough
to buy them a new typewriter. The}- prefer
to believe that the sales of the boo were
hampered by some inefficiency of book sellers
or publishers. Next time But the same
causes operate next time, and the next.
There are not three Australian writers
for adults who have any particular public
in England; they hope to make their main
sales in their own country. And, as things
go, an Australian sale of 2000 copies for
one of our books published overseas is a
fairly large one. What would the author’s
profit be on such a sale? To begin with, the
novel would be in a “colonial” edition,
and thus would yield royalties only at a
flat rate of threepence a copy. From this
the agent (the majority of authors work
through an agent) deducts his 10 per cent.
Then the British Treasury enters the field.
Its share of the profit is 4s. in the £, col-
lected at the source from the publishers,
and not to be evaded by the most wily
author. For his sale of 2000 copies (which
seemed like fame and popularity while the
books were disappearing from the windows)
he finally receives the magnificent sum of
£l7 10s. If he is lucky, his sales to English
circulating libraries will bring him a similar
amount.
That is the account of an average novel
by a fairly well-known writer. Some novels
bring in less, and only a few bring in more.
The plain truth is that the Australian author
who looks to making a living from sales
in his own country is wasting his time. The
“colonial” edition, with its fixed royalty
of threepence a copy, makes Australian
popularity a thing of no importance. One
English reader (royalty ninepence) is worth
at least as much to him as three Aus-
tralians; besides, it is the English reader
who determines the fate of a novel. A
demand from him will send the book into
other editions, whereas a demand from the
Australian reader would bring nothing but
a laconic “Sold out” from the booksellers.
No English publisher is going to reprint a
book because the “colonial” edition sold
well. He would merely be satisfied that the
remainders were not left on his hands. '
The 20 per cent, income tax that the
British Treasury exacts from Australian
authors publishing in England is a peculiarly
galling imposition. Where the justice of it
comes in is hard to see. A Sydney writer,
let us say, has his public in Sydney: yet
when a man in the next suburb buys his
book, the British Treasury comes between
them to collect a fifth of the royalty. Our
own Government has never thought of re-
taliating, as far as I know. It might,
through the customs, collect a penny
royalty on every English novel sold in Aus-
tralia, and thus provide a handsome fund
. for literary pensions. But authors, as a
class, have not many votes. One has only
to hear a Minister explaining the benefits
of the Copyright Act to realise what a
remote, airy-fairy creature a writer is to a
politician.
The Australian public at present is worth
practically nothing to our own writers pub-
lishing overseas. That is a fact that has
to .be repeated. What then is the writer to
do? Look for an overseas public?
If he achieves the English market [says Grattan],
lie is likely to do so at the expense of his integrity
as an artist. For one thing the readers of the
English publishing houses are not well informed about
conditions in the colonies. If they are not utterly
ignorant, and consequently very likely to reject a
novel, say, that excellently renders actual conditions,
they are full of preconceptions, which is worse, and
take only those novels that check up with their
established notions. The “colonial” author, realising
this, writes with the traditional ideas about his
country in mind, and so warps his originality.
This is not so true as it was a few years
ago. There are fewer Australian writers
willing to butcher their country to make a
Brixton holiday; there are more English
publishers willing to take a novel of merit,
irrespective of whether it tallies with their
own ideas of “colonial” life. Several sincere
and original novels have lately got through,
notably Katharine Prichard’s “Working
Bullocks”; and her “Coonardoo” has been
taken eagerly.
But the fact that Australian authors must
look primarily to English readers for the
success of their books is a bad thing,
nevertheless. It is a factor working for
falsity and mediocrity, and always will be.
For our readers are affected with it as well
as our writers; they hardly dare to look at
a piece of work through their own eyes.
“What will they say of this in England?”
is the usual comment when any arresting
writing crops up for discussion. What,
indeed! To such a state of provincialism
has our dependence on oversea publishers
brought us.
DIOGENES.
The Verse of Essex Evans
In Collected Verse of G. Essex Evans
(Angus and Robertson) “are collected, for
the first time, the poems of Australia’s
patriotic-poet” (I quote from the publishers’
note on the jacket). Not to beat about the
bush, I should like someone to show me
why the contents of this book should be
called “poems.” Metrical writing falls
easily into three simple divisions—doggerel,
which is indefensible;'verse, which is often
admirable; poetry, which is the rarest thing
in the world. Really, there should be a
tightening up in these terms, and a writer
of Evans’s ability should get his correct
denomination, which for three or four
pieces would be versifier, and for the rest
—well, what should you call. a persistent
writer of doggerel?
This estimate, I hasten to add, does not
appear to be very generally held; in fact,
I have never heard the Toowoomba writer
spoken of other than reverently. Alfred
Deakin said that “he was Australia’s
national poet, whose patriotic songs stirred
(Continued on page 5.)


'Truth in Advertising ,** the basis of honest trading <
OPEN UNTIL 9 P.M. EVERY FRIDAY.
FOR THE MAN ON THE LAND —
MANY REMARKABLE SAVINGS AT
Anthony Horderns
The “Challenge”
Kerosene Engine
Obtainable only at Anthony Horderns’.
è
é
This £7O Engine Reduced to
The illustration above represents our 5-horsepower stationary 4< Challenge” Engine, which
works on either kerosene or petrol. This is a popular size for heavy farm work. Supplied
complete with fuel tank, cooling hopper and high-tension magneto. This engine has 5 5-inch
bore, 8-inch stroke and the pulley wheel is 1 0 x 8 inches, diameter of fly wheel is 26 inches.
The “Challenge” engine is easy to start, and runs smoothly and evenly with little attention.
5 -horsepower Kerosene Engine. Price, £7O. Sale Price £4O
£4O
John Deere’s Maize Planter
Obtainable only at Anthony Horderns’.
*
l
The John Deere No. 999 2-row Maize Planter has
metal "cell-fill,” edge delivery side planter, sliding
copper bottom and metal cut-off and roller knocker
this affords accurate dropping device. It will plant
accurately and will handle any kind of corn, beans,
peas, sorghum, maize, etc., without having to change
the cut-off. Price, £33. Sale Price £27
The “Challenge”
Windmill
This Mill is also obtainable
only at Anthony Horderns\
The roller bearings run smoothly
and the oil-tight container will hold
at least one year’s supply of oil. The
shafts are made of best-grade high
carbon cold rolled steel, which will
not wear or cut out. The internal
gear and pinion are made of semi-
steel, which is 25 per cent, stronger
than cast-iron. Price Bft. head, £25.
Sale Price £23
1 Oft. head. Price £3O
Sale Price £27
Galvanised Steel 4-post Towers.
20ft., £l6/10/-; 30ft., £22/10/-
Dept. —Fourth Floor. Free Delivery in
City and Suburbs only.
ê
Bft. Head
Reduced to
Use Our
“D.P.S.”
BUY THESE GOODS NOW ON OUR DEPOSIT-PURCHASE SYSTEM.
Make use of this convenient method if it suits you better. You can secure any of these
implements this way. Leave a deposit, pay the balance at your leisure and when payments
are completed the goods will be delivered in the usual way.
YOU PAY THE CASH SALE PRICE ONLY; NO INTEREST IS CHARGED.
Anthony Horderns'
Telephone /V 12401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.


asss
m
m
rn
W ' ■. ••<
" - s ¥- '
xify
4
*
S B
$
t
i
■: .
lilli
■
TsJOTHING so bril-
-1 liant and revolution-
ary has yet appeared in the
field of low-priced sixes. See
it-ride in it—drive it r and
you will recognise that, in the
De Soto Six, the genius of
Chrysler surmounts price
limitations to a degree that
upsets all existing standards.
New Style
New Performance
New Elegance
New Riding Luxury
AUSTRALIAN & NEW ZEALAND
DISTRIBUTORS.
New South Wales:
Grenville Motors Ltd., Carsell House,
205-213 William St., Sydney.
Victoria: . _ , M
Automobiles Proprietary Ltd., 92 Flin-
ders St., Melbourne.
Queensland:
Stradbroke Motors Ltd., Adelaide St.,
Brisbane.
South Australia:
Dominion Motors Ltd., Flinders St.,
Adelaide.
Western Australia:
Wentworth Motors Ltd., Millignn or,,
Perth.
New Zealand:
Nczv Zealand Motors Ltd.,
Wellington.
CORPORATION (Division of Chrysler Corporation), DETROIT, MICHIGA
DE SOTO MOTOR
m
x
i
wm4}3&
mMi
*


Books for Tradesmen.
36/- 1/8
30/- 1/6
15/- 1/3
1/2
1/3
6/6 Bd.
Price. Postage.
Plastering, Plain and Decorative. Practical Treatise, including
full descriptions of Materials, Processes and Appliances,
Historical Plastering. Miller *'* * *
The Automobile Storage Battery. Its Care andl Repair. Radio
Batteries, Farm-lighting Batteries. O. A. Witte. ••••••••
Automobile Construction and Repair. Practical Guide. Hall . .
Clayworkers’ Handbook. Manual for all engaged in Manufacture
of Articles from Clay. By A. Searle /
Cement, Concrete and Bricks. A. Searle r e
Practical Stonemasonry Self-taught. Handbook for use of Stone-
masons, Stonecutters, Marble-workers, etc. Hodgson. •• • •
Small Motors — Transformers— Electromagnets. Practical Book
of Design and Construction. Stoller '
Furniture, Furniture Finishing, Decoration and Patching. Pattou
and Vaughn
Toolsmith and Steelworker. Complete Practical Scientific Book.
Holford
Classing the Clip. Handbook on Wool-classing. C. Cowley . .
Railway Signalling. Theory and Practice. Practical Manual for
Engineers. Dutton ‘ ’
Motor Manual. All About Motors in Simple Language. New
Domestic Electric Heating. An Elementary Handbook. Solomon
Drive Your Car Correctly. Smith ’’di • j
Alphabets for Signwrifers, Artists and Illuminators. Plain and
Ornamental ...........
“A Show At” Sho’ Cards. Comprehensive, Complete, Concise. 1/g
Practical Boat-building
l3/6 1/-
25/- I/-
7/6 6d.
6d.
15/
10/-
6d.
3/6 4d.
4/6 3d.
3cL
2/-
3/6 4d.
Atkinson
Canoeing, Sailing and Motor Boating.
and Handling. Miller ‘.‘rk-
Boat Building and Sailing for Amateurs. Instructions for Design-
ing and Building Skiffs, Canoes, etc. Dixon-Kemp ....
Electrical Horology. Practical Manual. Langman ........
Telephone Erection and Maintenance. Handbook for the Con-
tractor and Wireman. White
Marine Oil-engine Handbook ‘ \7 1* ’ i i
Motor-Boats. Construction of Marine Motors and Motor-boats.
Strickland
Refrigeration Memoranda. Collection of useful information
relating to Ice-making, etc. Levey ;’ **'‘* ' * * *
Recipes for the Color, Paint, Varnish, Oil, Soap and Drysaltery
Trades
Dynamo Design and Construction. Avery
Die and Press Tool Work. Butler
Screw Cutting. Camm
Lists on every Technical subject free on application.
13/6 6d.
10/- 4d.
4/6 4d.
3/6 4d.
3/-
«/-
4d.
3d.
13/6 Bd.
4/6 6d.
4/6 6d.
4/6 6d.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.
TECHNICAL BOOKSHOP,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
her people profoundly in the arduous cam-
paign for union.” That does not mean very
much to me, but I admit it sounds great.
Another of the many Evans enthusiasts is
Firmin McKinnon, who has done the intro-
duction to this book, and done it very
stodgily, though I don’t see how it could
have been otherwise unless it included the
critical truth. He speaks of Evans in terms
that I can only regard as grandiloquent
where they are not mere nonsense. "When
one remembers the immense quantity of
work that he produced,” writes Mr. McKin-
non, “one is amazed, not merely at his
energy, but at his consistent poetic
strength.” Well, one might be amazed,
but, I should say, not more than one;
another is amazed that one with the Courier
critic’s literary taste could write so extra-
vagantly. The “immense quantity” of Essex
Evans’s work totals 328 widely spaced
pages. “Immense!” Why, even “quantity”
is an overstatement! Yet, such is the
rarity and value of poetry, if only 28 of
those pages were inspired, held the divine
light of poesy, “immense quantity” would
not be exaggeration. And look to the other
assertion of Mr. McKinnon —the “consis-
tent poetic strength.” It is found in lines
of which the following are typical'.
I am only a poet
Fighting a bitter fight;
Fate will not even grant me
Leisure in which to write.
Of a writer who seldom gets above that
level and is often below it, Mr. McKinnon
can say: “Within the compass of this short
introduction it is impossible to discuss the
place of Evans in English literature, or to
estimate the influence of his work.” I con-
fess that this sort of lush lauding bowls me
out; I have not a command of censor-proof
language that would really express my feel-
ing for it. I might, however, if pressed
to it, discuss “the influence” of Evans’s
work; every other day I read MSS. ob-
viously inspired by such masterpieces as
“Eland’s River”:
It was the fourth of August as five hundred of us lay
In the camp of Eland’s River, came a shell from
De La Rey—
or
Hell belched upon our borders, and the battle had
begun.
Our Maxims jambed: We faced them with one
muzzle-loading gun.
wherein the richness of the bathos is ex-
celled only by the confusion of the
thought and the originality of grammar and
punctuation.
Now, that sort of thing is all very well
in its place, which, I suggest, is on a re-
cruiting poster; but what is the defence for
calling such rubbish poetry or gathering it
into a collected edition? Mr. McKinnon
says that G. Essex Evans “will remain for
all time an outstanding figure in the early
days of Australian literature.” I am not
such a pessimist.
CECIL MANN.
Oft-told Tales
Studies in Australian Affairs (Melbourne
University Press) would make a handy
bedside volume for one of those commis-
sions which visit the Commonwealth
periodically, and offer the inhabitants in-
formation about themselves. Much ground
is covered, and many subjects are confi-
dently handled. But a majority of the
stars appear in acts with which Australia
is already familiar.
Professor Griffith Taylor heads the bill
with his well-known diatribe against the
Commonwealth’s natural resources. The
interior is an irreclaimable desert ; the cli-
mate is inevitably bad,- the latitude and
outline of the continent being all wrong ;
there is an unfortunate distribution of high-
lands, and those that exist are “but bleak
cattle areas.” The country’s chief asset is
its rainfall, and “a remarkable feature is
the small areas receiving more than 30
inches.”
Brigadier-General Campbell (“Defence
Policy”) has given touches of modernity to
the article which he used to write during
the campaign for compulsory military ser-
vice 20 years ago, by references to the
World War. And Knight Hubert Murray
sounds once more his slogan, “Papua for
the Papuans,” and adds that his former
critics, the European settlers, now see the
value of such reforms as the prohibition of
corporal punishment.
The trouble with most of the new voices
is that they express views which are only
held by small sections in Australia. Thus
the keynotes of “Tariff Policy” by Profes-
sor J. B. Brigden, are that “the tariff shelter
is bringing the whole question of tariff
policy to a head,” and that “the best act
which the Commonwealth Government
could perform would be a reversal of the
present policy of High Protection.” And
R. S. Ross (“A Labor View of Pacific Pro-
blems”) says that one of the complications
which may develop from Labor’s inter-
national solidarity is the abolition of the
White Australia policy, and that “within
the [Australian] movement there are fierce
champions of such viewpoints.” Inciden-
tally, some of the authorities contradict one
another—Griffith Taylor, for example, hold-
ing that Australia’s trouble is that most of
it is destined to be uninhabited for ever,
and R. S. Ross that the menace is that it
will become overcrowded. This kind of
thing is liable to baffle investigators from
abroad, and those at whom the compilation
is primarily aimed—the members of the
Institute of Pacific Relations who want to
expound the social forces in the Pacific in
order that they may be controlled. But
over-statements, mis-statements and con-
tradictions are inevitable in a work of a
controversial nature in which each authority
is encouraged to ride his particular hobby-
horse all out.
Books Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a com-
mittee of judges nominated by the asso-
ciated booksellers of Australia and Maori-
land. It is published as a guide to new
books of merit:—
General Literature. —The Star Spangled
Manner, by Beverley Nichols; Elizabeth and
Essex, by Lytton Stracliey; Flying the
Arctic, by Sir G. H. Wilkins; Guests of the
Unspeakable, by T. W. White; Pictorial
Golf, by H. B. Martin; The Colvins and
Their Friends, by E. V. Lucas.
Novels of Literary Merit. —In the Begin-
ing, by Norman Douglas; My Brother Jona-
than, by Francis Brett Young; A Mirror
for Witches, by Esther Forbes ; The Silver
Thorn, by Hugh Walpole.
Novels for Popular Reading. —Vanity
Under the Sun, by Dale Colins; Perishable
Goods, by Dornford Yates; Two Flights Up,
by Mary Roberts Rinehart; Legion, for We
Are Many, by Roy Bridges; The Empress of
Hearts, by E. Barrington ; Burning Air, by
John Armour; Blue Eyes and Grey, by
Baroness Orczy; Silas Bradford’s Boy, by
Joseph C. Lincoln; Golden Bait, by H. St.
John Cooper; Surrender, by J. C. Snaith;
Black Rent, by Harold Begbie; The Come-
back, by Edgar Franklin.
A Satchel of Books.
A Mirror of Silver, by Roy Bridges (Hut-
chinson ; Robertson and Mullens). This
Australian writer is a sound melodrama
merchant. The story leaps from Kent in
1673 to Van Diemen’s Land in 1829, and
back to London in 1926. The romantically
minded can accompany it on the journey
without unduly straining themselves.
Twenty-four Fables (Benn).* A beautiful
reproduction of the original Sir Roger
L’Estrange renderings into English of fables
of ASsop and other mythologists, doubly in-
teresting through being illustrated with the
crowded but friendly and intimate early
examples of the etching art executed by
Marcus Gheeraerts the elder. A book for
the book-lover.
The World's Workers, by Harry Graham
(Methuen). Humorous verse, built on a
scheme that “Kodak” exploited here years
ago—a burlesque treatment of the more
glaring generalities of various classes, the
millionaire, the actor, composer, stockbroker
and so on. The illustrations of “Fougasse”
are on the best of terms with the melodious,
witty and ingenious foolery of the man who
wrote “Deportmental Ditties.”
The Story of Keth, by Blanche Girouard
(Macmillan). The saint Cleran, his wander-
ing through Ireland and losing his command
over his people through love for the loveless
Keth —such things James Stephens and other
Irish writers have fashioned into many books.
This author, however, is sufficiently different,
chiefly as to a style which, while, holding to
the idiom, is more simple and sincere than
that of several of the recent Irish writers.
She has not a great fund of humor, but she
makes amends for this with a feminine
delicacy of touch that keeps poetry always
haunting through her prose. A beautiful
miniature.
The Complete Novels of Jane Austen
(Heinemann). It is hard to realise, but
those complete novels, the six of them, are
here in one book —a portmanteau of a book,
with no less than 1421 closely-filled pages.
The very thin paper, however, circumvents
undue unwieldiness, and the paper’s good
quality permits clear and even handsome
printing. The price, Bs. 6d. (probably a
couple of shillings more in Australia), is an
incidental that should fetch a cheer from
Janeites who haven’t their author complete
on their shelves, and they at least will sup-
port the remark in J. O. Squire’s introduc-
tion. “Nobody who likes Jane Austen can be
wholly bad or wholly stupid.’’
Methuen's Punch Books. There is a tickle-
some Punch joke about the city man who,
after reading his Punch with absorbed in-
terest. handed it over to his wife with the
remark, “Nothing in Punch this week, my
dear.” By way of proving that joke to the
hilt, Methuen has for some time been sub-
dividing the great weekly and offering it in
lots at prices from 3s. 6d. upward. Several
of these Punch books have been mentioned
in the Satchel recently, and here are a few
more: “Honeybubble and Co.” (joyous
stories, sketches, playlets, verse and out-
rageous statistics by A. P. Herbert), “Won-
derful Outings” (breezy essays by E. V.
Knox), “Warriors Still at Ease” (another
batch of rollicking military sketches by
Anthony Armstrong), “Elizabeth’s Book”
(unserious little-girl verse by L. G. Eady).
“E. and 0. E.” (the funny-in-themselves
drawings of “Fougasse”), and “More ‘Very
Young’ Songs” (from A. A. Milne’s. pen,
with tripping music by H. Fraser-Simson
and decorations by E. H. Shepard—a gallant
trio).
Under the South, by James Norman Hall
(Chapman and Hall). An uncommonly
readable travel book, made from the wander-
ings of a man who got the unrest into his
blood in France and tried to satisfy it in and
around the romantic islands and atolls of
the South Seas. He strips away much of
the hocus-pocus of false romance that has
been hung about the islands by itinerant
journalists and others (“I mean,” he re-
marks, “to be occasionally truthful in this
narrative”), but his atmosphere is beautiful
always, his descriptive passages are charming
in their simplicity, his humanity is refreshing.
There are also, what few travel books have,
plenty of quiet humor and some character
drawing and dialogue that give an illusion
of good fiction. An excellent example of
these three qualities combined is contained
in the picture of the island skipper-trader
who knew Louis Becke. “I could tell you
more truth about the South Seas in five
minutes than Louis Becke could tell you in
20 years,” said the skipper, whereupon he
brought to light his “Fifty Years in the
Pacific, or The Life of Captain George G.
Handy,” which, judged by extracts, must
have been a truly weird and wonderful work
of art.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken oj communications insufficiently 'temped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Ex-Primary Prod.: The Bulletin cor-
dially agrees with you this far —that in order to
save their policy, Protectionists must prevent in-
efficients and loafers from sheltering under it....
Henry P.: Well enough written; but so thin
A. 8.5.: Yours wants a tonic, too G.J.: “Print
it or burn it." Alternative adopted... .R.A.8.:
“The Bells of Time" for ever muffled S.S.: Like
your idea of a sonnet —looks more like a serial....
T.R.: How do you think “genii” is pronounced?....
E. : To hand, “Boyhood Fancies.” Naughty boy!
M.M.: Amazing mixture of prose and verse
Cassar: Consider yourself reburied W.G.S.: All
off the beat Otitis Media: Requiescat Etcetera
Q.T.: Out A.K.M.: Suppose we have read worse,
but it must have been a long time ago S.N.:
Little promise in that sample... .H.K.M.: Not for
us M.H.L.: All fail to excite.... L.M.8.: Verse
headed for home E. 1.: Miss the target!
Fodgie: But that was stated in Shadow Shows w'eeks
ago H.L.: You are afflicted with the dreariority
complex... .Ex: Stop reading for awhile and have
a look at life R.R.T.: Frankly, we should not
advise you “to embark upon a poetic career”....
H.A.: You picked a bad time for your “Paean to
Wine.” This is a morning after with us... .A.E.L.:
Of your menagerie we select the mopoke for exhi-
bition :—•
The mopoke, perched in gum or pine, as suits
Him this or other flora for a roost —
At night gives most lugubrious, doleful hoots,
As Hell’s utmost despair had been infused
Into his throat, and thence to us unloosed.
What morbid query does he ask? or answer?
Meanwhile in distant camps his cry salutes
The ears of bushmen, signal that commands a
Sure recital of ghosts, and weird extravaganza.
....Mick Marr: As heavy as a bag of rocks....
J. J.: “If unsuitable, waft to w.p.b.” Wafted....
Willido: Noyouwont... .M.K.: All verse about the
longing for the tall trees and the hills is shot
on sight Hal Holt: Another good stamp used.
C.P.: Thanks for your friendly remarks....
F. : Too good to curse, not good enough to
bless... .Henry D.: Those first two pages are a
handicap R.E.8.: Majority verdict is that it is
too long M.S.M.: The Bulletin hates those
generalities that are the refuge of the writer who
doesn’t .know 8.J.: So he gave up whisky for
the middle-aged wife his mother picked for him;
and they lived happily. We wonder. .. .Jack M.:
“He was left 100,000,000 by his father.” Hundreds
and thousands, or what? 8.A.: Utterly uncon-
vincing A.E.8.: Scrap in pawnbroker’s shop
strains our credulity overmuch G.G.: No time for
the dancing girl who knifes her best boy by mistake.
P.S.M.: Unreal to the verge of childishness
E. J.G.: But did you ever know a man who drank
beer by bottles and read Jane Austen, both apprecia-
tively? C.M.S.: No story in it.... Echo: It rings
true enough, but that’s all H.M.: “The Best
Thing” isn’t good enough. It isn’t even intelligible
enough Gil H.: Goldfields yarn would hardly pass
muster in a Deadwood Dick f (millet on A.M..
“Golden Head” doesn’t assay 2dwt 8.P.: That
pearl and octopus stuff has been overdone... .J.P.Q.:
There’s humor in “Her Guilty Secret,” but your
grain of gold is beaten out too fine R.J.0.:
“Heritage” is the reverse of goodly M. Moonie:
Not enough meat on it... .A.W.D.: “Isle of Dogs”
cornea closer. “The Cloisonne Box” rings a bit
hollow W.L.: “The Dark Chapter” is much too
murky, not to say cryptic. Can’t make out what
sin the parson committed W. 8.: No use for “A
Paternal Paragon”... .Fane: He thought he had
heart disease and it was only indigestion. You
can’t hang a column on that peg... .Phi. M.: Not up
to the mark....Arth L.: Impossible.... P. Sh..
An idea in it, but you need more craftsmanship
T.W.D.: So many flies on it! F.J.H.: Show of
gold too thin J. 8.: Artificial and amateurish
R.R.: Discursive narrative rambling home L.L.:
And what did happen to the girl ? T. J.L.: More
American than Australian... .V. 8.: Re-tells an oft-
told tale A.C.L.: Opens excellently; ends in-
conclusively ... .A.S.H.: Drab... .N.M.: Shows sym-
pathy and earnestness, but not quite up to standard.
....Sandfly: Home it goes... .R.L.T.: Scrapped....
C.F.: Wish you luck... .V. 8.: Contents don t quite
satisfy J.C.: Farewell to the “Norman Blood.”
It.D.P.: Nothing exactly similar. There are,
however, the Australasian Engineer (Sydney,
monthly, Is.), and the Commonwealth Engineer
(Melbourne, monthly, 9d.) ... .Australind: December
31, 1927, was the date of the last return; Westralia
then had four dailies, 73 weeklies and 56 other
publications registered as newspapers Pater: Study
of Hazlitt will help the lad if he wants to become
a pressman ; and if he likes history and biography,
so much the better. Try him on Guedalla (“Second
Empire”) and Lytton Strachey (“Eminent Vic-
torians” and “Queen Victoria”) Quoin: There are
90 U.S. Senators, two from each State; the salary is
7500 dollars p.a., with an allowance, based on
distance, for travelling expenses. Like our Senators
they are elected for six years. They have to be at
least 30 years of age, residents in the States for
which they are chosen, and citizens of the U.S.A.
for nine years. They may ratify or reject all treaties
made by the President with foreign Powers; a two-
thirds majority of Senators present is required for
ratification. Our Senate has no corresponding power;
neither can it remove the Prime Minister from office,
as the U.S. Senate can remove the President.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.L.: Improving, but still stiff and angular
P.P.: Drawings nearly arrive; gags hopeless.....
P. 8.; If you are under ten you are excused this
time... .H. 0.: Didn’t get a second glance
A.C.: Try somebody in the wallpaper line C.W.:
Cremation sketch deadly F.L.E.: Cricket jokes
among the world’s worst K.G.: Your gags have
a past; your sketches have no future... .F.H.: You
get the ink on the paper, but that’s about a 11....
J.R.8.: A crumpled pair perpetrated in blue ink.
W.G.R.: Give it up, lad !. .. .F.E.: Study
harder, and take more pains with your attempts.
O.E.: Faint pencil work, and poor at that....
G.j.’: That gag is no blushing deb V. 8.: Un-
even as yet, but keep on C.W.K.: A scratchy
lot W.8.H.: Nothing to grin at P-H.: Line-
work resembles a web constructed by a spider with
futuristic leanings... .N.M.: Joke has no backbone.
. p. 8 .: Drawn after a crayfish' supper? F.A.:
Get some humor into them.


Am
1
A
m
■ I
'■ j <
m
.........
HH
BS
ill!
";v
:
H
i:
■
is
pi
-
V ■
: i
-
- •>
: .
V
.
SI 7> P if
• «
«


The Bulletin
Yol. 50. —No. 2555.
January 30, 1929/
THE ADVANCE OF CIVILISATION.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
Sti George Street, Sydney.
Victoria: 111,-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. oa.,
5 months, 7 s. in in. •
To any address OvEnsEAS: 12 months, x> 1 ios.,
6 months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and.
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: ioz. to lOoz. , lid.;
each additional 40z., Id. All Sea Route: '
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part theie I,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
NEW LIGHT ON LINDSAY GORDON . . ■ • 2
ESSEX EVANS’S VERSE 2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . • • 5
THE FRONT PAGE —By Leason 7
EDITORIALS 8 ’ 9
Truth about Sugar 8
SYDNEY’S DANGER FROM DIRT . . . . 8
SHOULD NORTH-SOUTH RAILWAY BE
FINISHED? 8
A CARTOON BY MAB TREEBY 9
POLITICS (with caricatures) 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) 11, 12
PERSONAL—with three caricatures . . •• 13
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 14, 16
O. Gilpin’s Stores 14
FARMERS AND SETTLERS’ INSURANCE . . 14
COMMONWEALTH LIFE (AMALGAMATED) . . 14
The Monkey that Starved Itself
—Cartoon by Scorfield .. . . • ■ .. 17
POVERTY POINT 77
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) . . • • 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 19, 20
PRIZES FOR FARMERS 22
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 25
Free Service Department .. 26
SMOKE-OH 28
PEN AND PICTURE 33
NEW MOVIES 33
SPORTING (Illustrated) 35, 37, 39
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 40
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 42
WINTER FASHIONS ... 42
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 43
“BRACKEN” 30, 44, 47
Complete Stories —
“THE ENTHUSIAST,” by T. P. Baker . . 49
“POOR COWS O’ CROWS,” by Francis Osborn 50
VERSE 47, 50
“SEA WOLVES,” By E. J. Brady . . .. 47
ffie'fyixUeizz/t
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 1929.
THE TRUTH ABOUT SUGAR.
Sugar culture by white labor has been
established by means of an embargo on
the importation of cheap “black” sugar and
the guarantee of an adequate rate per ton
for raw-sugar consumed in Australia. Ex-
ported sugar must accept world-parity price;
sugar used in manufacture is subject to a
regular assessment by a board appointed
for the purpose, which fixes a rate that
permits the manufacturer of confectionery
and other sugared goods to meet world
competition. Proceeds from the three prices
are pooled and the grower gets the net
average. The net effect is that the Aus-
tralian consumer of sugar pays more than
he would under Freetrade conditions, but
the grower does not receive that excess as
“bunce”—it goes to offset his loss on ex-
ported and manufactured product.
These artificial conditions have inevitable
reflexes. When it was realised that sugar
producers were on a good thing, sugar
workers put in for a share—and got it; the
consumer was paying. The landseller did
likewise and got his cut, some growers pay-
ing exorbitant prices for lands. The result
is that the average grower is not working
on very wide margins of profit. The con-
sumer, however, paying perhaps a penny or
three-ha’pence a pound more for sugar than
he could get it from colored-labor Java or
Fiji, protests. He demands that he shall
obtain his sugar more cheaply. He does not
care much how it is done as long as it is
done.
One suggestion is that Australian sugar
might be produced more efficiently.
A chief trouble of the industry, to begin
with, is that it is topheavy with organi-
sation, the purely mechanical organisation
of quantity production, price maintenance
and selling. The growers’ conferences, dis-
trict and general councils, award-fixing
boards, right down to mill-suppliers’ com-
mittees, are the perfection of that bureau-
cracy which always seems to grow up under
Labor rule. The cost of it all comes out
of the sugar, and therefore partly out of
the subsidy.
Sugar experiment stations are doing good
work, but growers do not profit much by
it. 'The research . stations are a part not
of the Cane Growers’ Council organisation,
but of the direct State machinery. When
Dr. Kerr returned from his years abroad,
and before he resumed work with the ex-
periment stations, he spoke very frankly
about quality of production (which, of
course, embraces quantity, too). Those
people who are students of the science of
sugar-growing as an industry vital to the
settlement of sub-tropical Australia hailed
the young man as the truthteller the in-
dustry needed. But he froze after his first
interview. He had become part of the
machine—it was evident that someone had
said “Better not!”
Started as an industry in the temperate
zone of Queensland, sugar-growing has be-
come there a staple of great importance
and with a host of vested interests. There
is nothing that could quite take its place;
certainly nothing that could do it quickly.
But a challenge is coming—from inside the
industry, from the lush-growing tropical
and sub-tropical North, the Burdekin and
contiguous areas. The pivot of the industry
is slowly but surely being transported to the
other side of the Tropic. What, asks the
pioneer Temperate growing-area, must be
done? The answer is always “Organise!”
—but on lines of reduced output, more
subsidy, higher ring-fences for the industry;
making artificial conditions more artificial.
When Sir Benjamin Morgan was in
Queensland he told the canegrowers that
they could forthwith sell 300,000 tons more
sugar a year to Britain alone if they could
deliver the goods at a price that compared
with the one Britain was then paying. He
hinted that Britain would even spring a few
pounds a ton special-duty concession to get
this Empire-grown product. The Cane
Growers’ Council scarified Sir Ben ; it pooh-
poohed the whole idea unless Britain or
Bruce or John Taxpayer, or somebody,
gave the sugargrower £lO a ton subsidy and
a permanent agreement to subsidise the
Empire product and to keep off foreign com-
petition.
That sums up the sugar industry. It is
cursed with the Laborite obsession for regi-
menting and bureaucratising. And while
that continues the real improvement of the
industry is neglected. The danger for
Queensland is that some Government will
some day bow to a demand for the removal
of all subsidies and supports; and then there
will be an unholy crash. This must be pre-
vented. The greatest obstacle in the way
at the moment is the difficulty of getting
the industry to see its own peril.
SYDNEY’S DANGER FROM DIRT.
Sydney, having been informed that plague
is rampant among its closest neighbors to
the north, is making another effort to be sani-
tary. The Civic Commissioners have threat-
ened to prosecute those who “deposit on
any enclosed space material which may
serve as food for rats and mice”; and, be-
ginning, as usual, at the wrong end, they
have issued summonses against a few dozen
persons who have been seen spitting on
pavements, or jettisoning tram tickets.
It is the same serio-comic campaign that
the civic authorities have been starting, and
dropping, for decades past. Once or twice
it has assumed an appearance of earnestness,
but, as a rule, it has flared up, in response
to an agitation by some organisation that
was suspected of having a political pull,
only to die, after a month or so, of its own
futility. There is every indication that this
is going to happen again. The Civic Re-
form Association presented a point of view
at the beginning of last week which is no
less than a direction to the Town Hall to
stick to its traditional policy of laissez-
faire : —-
“Of course it must be realised that Sydney
is in a transition stage, and that with build-
ings going up we cannot expect the streets
to be free of debris.... With the public
everything rests.”
No city on earth has become sanitary by
leaving sanitation to the public. It is the
nature of the average human being, white
no less than black, to be thoroughly insani-
tary; which is why in every civilised city
armies of experts are paid to undertake the
onerous and technical duty of seeing that
filth and its appalling concomitants are
denied a footing. But filth has always been
treated leniently in Sydney. Take three
scandals of ancient standing:—
(1) The S. M. Herald, which is not given
to exaggeration, commented a few days ago
on “the huddled squalor that disgraces
Sydney’s Municipal Markets.” The report
went on: “Every inch of the gutters was
hidden by hillocks of fruit and vegetables,
destined to go to countless hotels, restau-
rants, shops and private houses scattered
throughout this queen city of the South. Only
the most asinine of optimists could call
this haphazard handling of perishable food-
stuffs hygienic.”
(2) There are flat-buildings, not only in
the slums, but in expensive suburbs such as
Potts Point and Elizabeth Bay, whose garbage-
disposal arrangements belong to an era when
the science of disease-prevention was in its
infancy. Their refuse reaches the ground-
level by chutes which discharge into open
bins. This archaic device makes it impos-
sible for the bins to be effectively covered,
as required by modern law, and, through
the gaps necessary to enable the garbage re-
movers to do their work, rats, mice, flies,
etc., get at the decaying food inside. Sydney
is still without the sealed milk bottles which
Melbourne (like the cities of Britain and the
U.S.A.) adopted years ago, and the spectacle
of rats, possibly diseased, drinking from open
milk-jugs, after feediug from open garbage-
tins, may be witnessed by any student of
vermin-life within a mile of the Law Courts.
(3) A much better-known abomination is
the street rubbish tip, since certain news-
papers feature photographs of these disease-
breeders from time to time, with crosses to
show where the dead dogs are lying.
Individual citizens lack the powers to
deal with such menaces even when they
have the will and time. Effective steps
can only be taken by a department. No
new laws are required. The State Parlia-
ment has been passing Acts and Amending
Acts in “respect of health and food since
1902. The reason why nothing worth talk-
ing about is ever done —with the result that
the metropolitan area of Sydney remains
a paradise of rats, flies, etc., and of vendors
of doubtful milk and food —is that there
has never been any party capital in starting
a disturbance on the subject, while there
are plenty of vested interests to be alien-
ated by drastic action. The authorities have
always shirked their duty till an epidemic
has arrived, and then, as happened in the
plague outbreak at the beginning of the
century, in the smallpox outbreak just
before the war, and in the influenza out-
break just after the war, they have taken
hysterical measures, and put the blame on
the public.
This method of shifting responsibility has
gone down in the past, but it is doubtful if
it will again. The Sydneyite of to-day has
seen backblocks scourges like typhoid and
diphtheria eliminated from the war areas,
and notoriously dirty cities such as Dublin
and Rome cleaned up by energetic adminis-
trative action. He expects like results for
his money in his own city, and he is not
going to agree, when pestilence comes again,
that he is to blame because he refrained
from putting his tram tickets in tha proper
receptacles.
THE NORTH-SOUTH RAILWAY.
From W. W. Killen, M.H.R.:—
Has ex-S.A. Premier Crawford Vaughan
seen the country in the Northern Territory
of which he writes in The Bulletin of
January 16? I have, and I have also had
many years’ experience in developing coun-
try in the far north-west of N. S. Wales
and Queensland similar to the best on the
North-South line, and infinitely better than
the average.
In 3926 I travelled through from Adelaide
to Darwin, and back through the Barkly
Tableland and Western Queensland, for the
express purpose of satisfying myself and
advising the Federal Parliament on the
North-South railway project, with no per-
sonal axe to grind, and hoping before I
started that I would find the country worth
developing and capable of successful white
settlement. Inspection, however, and informa-
tion received from old residents brought dis-
appointment and disillusionment, and I now
unhesitatingly state that to attempt to de-
velop and populate it to any considerably
greater extent than now obtains would be
hopeless. Of the area of the Northern Ter-
ritory (that is, North and Central Australia
as now constituted) that will be served by
the North-South railway, I am satisfied that
at least 90 per cent, is either poor, sour coun-
try, practically barren country or country
with such a poor rainfall that no experienced
business man would think of spending money
on its development.
The railway from Oodnadatta to Alice
Springs (now being built) traverses country
with an average rainfall for the first 250
miles of from to 7 inches and two drought
years out of three. At Alice Springs there
is a patch of better country with a rainfall
of 10 to 11 inches. Further north for about
600 miles the rainfall increases, and the
country becomes more sour. All of this
country that is worth occupying is now put
to its best use in providing a precarious living
for a few cattle, the number varying from
one to the square mile in the drier parts to
six in the better parts. When the railway is
built there will be practically nothing for
it to carry but a few fat cattle when the
seasons are favorable and the Adelaide mar-
ket good.
The further the line is continued from
Oodnadatta north the higher will be the
freights and the worse the results. When
I travelled through that country in June,
1926 (mid-winter) the thermometer varied
in the daytime between 90 and 100 degrees in
the shade.
Military experts say the North-South rail-
way will be useless for defence purposes.
From a business point of view the tragedy
of it is that, while an estimated £1,700,000
(which will probably be largely exceeded) is
being wasted on this railway to Alice
Springs, and more has been, and is being,
wasted on the poor, sour country on the line
from Pine Creek to Daly Waters, the fine
tract of country on the Barkly Tableland —
an area capable of carrying seven or eight
million sheep—and the rich Victoria River
country is being left undeveloped.
Already several millions have been wasted
on railways in the Northern Territory. To
complete the North-South line will cost at
least five or six more millions. Will Craw-
ford Vaughan seriously argue that this
amount should be spent on a railway on
which there must inevitably be an enormous
annual loss —an added burden to be carried
by the already overburdened taxpayers of
Australia?
The Bulletin doesn’t know how Craw-
ford Vaughan would argue.; but it does
know that the North-South line is one of
the terms of “a scrap of paper” made be-
tween the Commonwealth and South Aus.
And, anyhow—
It is impossible to build a railway across
Australia without covering considerable
desert, but the route needn’t be all desert.
It is wonderful how little apparent susten-
ance a railway can live upon if it has a
port at each end, no matter though the
middle be forbidding. The line west from
Port Augusta is hampered by break of gauge,
by the fact that the Federal section (1051
miles) doesn’t cross one permanent fresh-
water stream, and by the other trouble that
it has to compete against a cheaper and
shorter steamboat route from Adelaide; yet
it has begun to pay working expenses. If
Private Enterprise had built the work with
its own money (so that it could wait for
dividends) and with the common ordinary
land-grant as u standby, this result would
have been considered not bad.
The South-to-North line should do better
if it was completed from deep water to deep
water instead of being two dead-ends. It
would be a short cut from ocean to ocean
rather than a very long one. There are
high hills and real moisture on the way.
Of course, there are losses, as on most un-
finished railways. The two incomplete and
neglected fragments of South-to-North line
measure 677 miles, and the loss on them
for the year to June, 1927, was £208,892.
That looks like £3lO per mile. The N. S.
Wales Railway Commissioners’ last report
gave details of 3374 miles of line which
lost £1,293,073. That is £383 per mile.
The “poor rainfall” mentioned by Mr.
Killen is doubtless a drawback, but still
the Northern Territory (now North and
Central Australia) has a greater area with
over 15 inches of annual rainfall than N. S.
Wales, Victoria, South Australia or West-
ralia, which is something to go on with.
Hopes are entertained of doing a trade in
cattle, etc., via Darwin as well as via Adel-
aide when Darwin is a civilised town at
the end of a railway connecting it with
civilised places, instead of an isolated out-
post of Bolshevism. The cattle are mostly
much more convenient to Darwin than to
Adelaide. Mr. Killen appears to have
torn off an unfortunate sample of climate
when travelling “from Oodnadatta north”
in June, 1926; still that region is in
the South Australian desert, and, as already
remarked, one can’t rail across Australia
without taking some desert. As' a set-off
frosts have been recorded on the Roper River,
which wanders into the Gulf, and a Bishop
of Carpentaria once reported the most miser-
able freeze of his life while camping out
near Alice Springs.
If the Barkly Tableland, up towards the
north-east of the Northern Territory, and
“the rich Victoria country,” still further
up towards the north-west, are such estim-
able spots, why is the N.T. as a whole the
dilapidated spot it is alleged to be?
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Monopoly in Piracy.
A classic example of the one-way-traffic
minds of some of our statesmen was shown
in Queensland recently in connection with
the proposed Bourke-Cunnamulla rail-link.
This necessary connection has been
approved by the N.S.W. Government, the
Public Works Committees of both States,
the railway authorities of both States and
the Chambers of Commerce of both capital
cities, to say nothing of the Prime Minister
and sundry Commissions. Its only mani-
fest opponent is the Premier of Queensland,
who explained his reasons thus: —
“Queensland has spent a tremendous
amount of money to give the south-west-
ern portion of Queensland railway connection
with the coast to Brisbane, and Queensland
must be careful that it does not divert
that traffic to New South Wales and Syd-
ney. The New South Wales railways have
a reputation, for pirating border traffic by
allowing special concession rates.”
That was in November. In December the
Queensland Cabinet authorised the con-
struction of the Inglewood-Texas line, which
was passed in 1914. This will reach the
border at a handy spot untapped by the
N. S. Wales service, and was thus reported
upon by the Queensland Public Works Com-
mittee :
“The extension will act as a very valuable
feeder to the main line. Brisbane is only
270 miles from Texas, whereas Sydney is
600.”
Evidently Mr. McCormack intends that the
gentle art of pirating shall be a Queensland
monopoly. A cursory glance at the map
shows that the northern State has never
been altogether backward at the game. The
Warwick-Dirranbandi line straggles along
for 257 miles within coo-ee of the border,
whereas the Ma State reaches out but one
feeler at Mungindi.
4
Even Money the Prisoner.
Official returns show that last year, in all
the States, 50 per cent, of those charged at
Quarter Sessions were acquitted. In N. S.
Wales the acquittals exceeded the convic-
tions, the figures being 305 to 265. It is
significant that at the Old Bailey in London
the proportion of acquittals year in year
out is not more than 10 per cent.
It can fairly be said of those who find
their way into criminal docks that at least
95 per cent, are guilty. That such a large
proportion escape in Australia is due to
three principal defects: (1) The States have
very few experts in preparing criminal cases;
(2) in certain crimes carrying the death
penalty juries are unwilling to convict;
and (3) there are fewer police here, in pro-
portion to population, than in Britain, and
they do more extraneous jobs. The Home
Office is proposing now to remove even the
work of traffic control from the British force,
leaving policemen to concentrate on their
proper activities—namely, the prevention
and detection of crime and the conviction
of offenders. Hundreds of criminal cases
break down, in Australia because the police


THE RUSTLE OF AUTUMN LEAVES.
have been so pre-occupied in making up
electoral rolls, interviewing people about
dog-licenses, preventing infractions of by-
laws, etc., that they have had no oppor-
tunity to collect the perfectly good evi-
dence which was available against the
accused.
One of the worst effects of all this is
that it causes an enormous amount of valu-
able time to be wasted. The States can no
longer afford the majestic process of trying
100 persons only to discover that 50 of the
elaborate affairs were mockeries. It is prob-
able that the death-penalty for certain
crimes, such as rape, should be abolished.
It is certain that it should not be necessary
to even record sentence of death in cases
where it most surely will not be carried out.
Greater ability and experience should be
demanded of Crown Law officers. And,
above all, there should either be more police
or the existing police should be given the
opportunity to concentrate on legitimate
police work.
4
How the Mentally Unfit Increase.
“Pawang”: Victoria has 6000 mental defec-
tives being cared for in the institutions of
the State, and experts estimate that five
times as many are being cared for—or not
cared for—outside. The State has no law
forbidding the mating of deficients, and as
mental deficiency is generally allied with
abnormal sex activity, the increase of
defectives is higher than that of the normal
inhabitants. There is not even a law com-
pelling segregation.
Lately there has been some shadow-
sparring between Chief-Secretary Argyle
and a society which has just been formed
to promote the welfare of the mentally
afflicted. But neither Dr. Argyle nor the
society went to the root of the problem,
which is the prevention of the multiplica-
tion of the unfit.
California has had a law on the subject
since 1909. It authorises the superintendent
of the State home and of hospitals for the
insane to perform an operation that will
prevent parenthood before patients are
released. If relatives withhold permission
the patient is simply retained in the insti-
tution. The operation is not dangerous. In
the case of males it requires only a local
anaesthetic; in the case of females a general
one and a few days of hospital attention.
It does not affect the sexual life of the
patient; and it generally leads to an im-
provement in physical and mental health,
4
The Big Machine at Canberra.
The New Guinea pot has started to bubble
afresh, and a public meeting of citizens at
Rabaul has called on the Federal Govern-
ment to remove the Administrator on the
grounds that the people have no longer
any confidence in him or his subordinates.
In a long list of reasons for the demand the
meeting includes inequitable taxation, the
granting of mining leases without expert in-
spection and supervision, discontent in the
Public Service, and the proposed constitu-
tion of the forthcoming Legislative Council.
Even allowing for that well-known con-
tributor to tropical amenities, the human
liver, the Administration has left the door
open to complaints from that section of the
community not included in the Civil Service.
What the latter, with its high rate of pay
and its liberal leave allowances, has to com-
plain of when compared with, say, its
Papuan brother it is not easy to under-
stand. But there can be no doubt that the
mining community, and in a lesser degree
the traders and planters, have seen their
rights and interests unnecessarily sub-
ordinated to the Administration’s struggle
to keep “sweet” at all costs with the League
of Nations. This struggle has produced a
spirit of indulgence towards the native ele-
ment at the expense of the white, though
the League has expressly stated in regard
to the Samoan trouble that it is the Man-
datory’s duty to keep the native element
in decent control and to employ what means
it thinks necessary to do so. That the
native should be guarded against exploita-
tion of every kind is just, but that is quite
a different thing from wrapping him in
cotton-wool and daring his white employer
to keep him within the bounds of discip-
line.
There is undoubtedly an over-tendency
on the part of the Administration to assume
this minatory attitude toward the white
employer, and, indeed, towards the white
man generally within its boundaries, as the
treatment of the Bulolo miners very clearly
indicates. But not all the blame is due to
the military regime on which the Adminis-
tration was founded. Much of the trouble
lies at the doors of the Canberra bureau-
crats, who, with the aid of wireless, are too
prone to order the conduct of the man on
the spot. Sir William Macgregor once laid
it down that the day of the great Imperial
administrators vanished with the advent of
the electric-telegraph, which gave them over
bound and helpless to the tin gods of the
Colonial Office. The radio of the present
day has multiplied the handicap put upon
the'unhappy Man Who Knows.
4
Maternity Hygiene.
“A. to Z.”: Mr. Bruce in his policy speech
announced the proposal to establish a
Department of Maternity Hygiene for the
Commonwealth. There is in such a depart-
ment equal chance of great good and great
evil. It depends upon the persons in con-
trol.
Maternity is natural; it is an instinct. Left
free, Nature and the woman find a way.
Yet politicians and medical men can bring
in a measure like the Midwives Act, which
prevents “any unregistered woman attend-
ing a maternity case for gain unless a
doctor is in attendance,” and can put that
Act into force without making any provision
for bush mothers except to allow such
women as are already practising to register
under certain conditions!
Are the politicians and doctors going to
create more difficulties for the country
mother, or will Australia see that the women
have some say in future legislation?
Service in every district, and in the home,
is the fundamental of maternity hygiene.
The mother instinct functions best in seclu-
sion; all natural instincts do; and if we
are looking for a larger population of better
type, the home is where it will grow, and
where the best service will give the best
return. There are, say, one in every fourteen
mothers in Australia whose condition needs
medical and perhaps hospital care, and
who are not receiving it, at least to the
required extent. The same service will
reach these cases, and the normal ones.
Force those women into hospital wards with
uniformed nurses and doctors around. They
may like it, they may not; but they won’t
go back a dozen times, nor yet half a
dozen. There will be an increase in
maternal deaths from haemorrhage, though.
Make a health centre in every district;
teach them health; help them to pay for it
and value it; give them service in the
home and oversight of the growing child.
It will be money well spent.
4
British v. Australian Railway Policy.
There is no end of leakage in the growing
horde of little, money-losing, dead-end loan
railways which make the railway map of
N. S. Wales resemble a mass of curling-pins
or caterpillars.
When Private Capital makes a rail-
way its aim is to create and nurse enter-
prises which will provide profitable work
for the same. This is why British rail-
way companies own steamboats, marine
workshops, canals, docks, harbors, wharves,
hotels, electric-power stations and some
£43,000.000 worth of assets which are lumped
together as “Land, property, etc., not form-
ing part of the railway or stations.” It is
a serious business with Private Capital to
attract trade and industry, by judicious re-
bates or any other trick, where it might not
otherwise come.
If State loan enterprise has any
policy at all apart from putting down rails
and seeing that nobody steals them, it
is to discourage any active doings except
of the pastoral and agricultural sort along-
side these rails, as tending to divert employ-
ment from the State metropolis. In this
land of unused harbors, and lines that care-
fully stop short of harbors, and lines that
dodge harbors as if they were poisonous,
it is strange to read that British railway
companies have over £42,000,000 invested
in docks, harbors and wharves, £8,000,000
in canals, and nearly £10,000,000 in steam-
boats and marine workshops.
That way of fishing for commerce is as far
removed from the Australian methods of
political railroading as the Devil is from
holy water.
■ ♦
The Great Poison-gas Myth.
“Gunner”: It is curious to find the Ameri-
cans affirming, and the Germans denying, the
humanity of gas in warfare at the Frank-
fort Peace and Liberty Conference. During
the World War the most effective argument
used in the U.S.A. to prove the inhumanity
of the Germans was their pioneer work with
poison-gas at Ypres. In th next war, no
matter how earnestly Peace Conferences
plead, it will be exploited, as a matter of
course, by all the belligerents provided it
can do the necessary work of killing or dis-
abling soldiers and ruining the morale of
civilians.
But what damage is it going to do civilians?
None at all if they are, say, American
civilians, with an ocean between their cities
and the probable seat of warfare, and not
much even if they are Europeans. Professor
Haldane has pointed out that it would
take a couple of thousand tons of phosgene
to poison any considerable quarter of a great
city; and to transport 2000 tons of gas for as
much as 50 miles would require more bomb-
ing ’planes than any Power possesses at
present. Gas lies low, and none of it would
reach a room a dozen or 20 feet up, while
it can even be kept out of cellars with
blankets, as every Digger knows by experi-
ence. A breeze, or half a breeze, is the
death of gas; the most formidable con-
centration that any nation could put down
would not last 10 minutes in face of a
normal Australian blow.
The conclusion is that high-explosive or
incendiary bombs would do far more
damage; and when the next war comes it is
certain that Australia as well as America
will be found praying hard that the foe,
whoever he may be, will have wasted the
maximum amount of time on the less lethal
article. Its chief advantage, appropriately
enough, has always been for propaganda
purposes —by the opponents of Germany a
decade ago, by the pacifists now.
4
Asiatic Labor for New Guinea.
Not only is there an agitation for Asiatic
police in Rabaul, but there has been for
some time a feeling that the importation
of Asiatic labor is essential to the progress
of the planting industry in New Guinea.
This has been brought to a head by the
issue of an order for 2000 native laborei’S
by a big London co. which is to work cer-
tain mining claims on the grand scale. A
recruiting fee of £l5 per head has been
offered, which will mean that labor for
the plantations, always difficult to get and
keep up to requirements, will be unobtain-
able. Tamils are suggested, these having
proved their worth as workmen on tea-
and rubber-plantations in Malaya and
Ceylon. The usual foolish remarks are
being made as to the safeguarding of the
local population by segregation of the im-
ported workers and the ensuring of their
return by an indenture system when their
term of service has been completed. That
has all been tried in many of the Dominions
which are now cursing the day they ever
thought of the scheme. A notable case is
that of New Guinea’s neighbor, Fiji. There
the segregation-indenture drum was beaten
when objections were first raised. What
came of the “safeguards” in the end is
common if disconcerting knowledge.
4
In Melbourne a few days ago Philip
Pope, aged 13 years and 11 months, was
charged with having murdered his brother,
Jack Pope. After a friendly “dirt fight”
in the yard, Philip followed Jack into the
house, and, taking a gun from the wall, shot
him. Philip left later “to meet his mother
at the station.” Instead, he made for the
country, and was discovered just after he
had run in a children’s race at a picnic.
The law cannot do justice to a case like
this; it provides no punishment for those
who leave Death lying about for any
thoughtless child, or vicious adult, to un-
loose. Yet they are genuine malefactors
who by their criminal negligence cause
scores of deaths all over the Common-
wealth.


GAEL iq
land
Whisky
RED, WHITE and BLUE
WHISKY
Gaelic Special Reserve
DEARER BUT BETTER
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO., LTD.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN AGENTS: JAMES HENTY & CO., 499 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: B. SEPPELT & SONS, LTD., 444 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
GAEL/c
and
POLITICAL
POINTS
The flat and apparently decisive announce-
ment of the Newcastle miners that they
won’t take Is. per ton less, even though the
consequent restoration of industry might
bring a pound or two per week more, will
doubtless mean that the parties who agreed
to sacrifice the other 4s. per ton will also draw
out. Then importation will go ahead. This
attitude of No Compromise regardless of loss
may be heroic, but fortunately it is not uni-
versal. If the farmers fixed the price of
wheat at Bs. and went on burning grain till
that figure was reached the results would
be terrible.
Sydney Nationalists were confident that
Parkhill,' of Warringah, their secretary for
many years, would
succeed the defeated
Manning as party
Whip in the House of
Reps.; but Marr, the
Hon. Minister, when
consulted by Stanley
Bruce (Marr himself
was Whip for four
years), recommended
Perkins, the Eden-
Monaro man. Nats,
from other States are
not keen on Parkhill.
Pressmen are not keen
on Perkins. Nettled by
some facetious remarks
in a Sydney daily,
Perkins attacked the
supposed writer from
the floor of the House,
even dragging in a
reference to a lady.
The journalist a
brilliant fellow —was
shortly afterwards re-
called from Canberra
and has since left the
paper.
Perkins, M.H.R.
Taking too much for granted, the Vic.
Nationalists were lethargic for weeks in the
Castlemaine-Kyneton Assembly electorate,
while Labor was industrious. So Laborite
Satchell made headway, but Langslow, who
supports McPherson’s Ministry, is catching
up, and there will be a ding-dong go on Satur-
day, Feb. 2. Ex-Premier Lawson w r on the
constituency by 1900 votes 21 months ago;
but, then, he was M.L.A. for Castlemaine
long before Maldon and Kyneton were added.
Still. Langslow’s friends calculate that at
worst he should get home with 300 to spare.
Blakeley, M.H.R. for Darling, is not
likely to be deputy-leader of the Federal
Labor party for more than a few days longer.
Theodore, whom he unexpectedly beat in the
last ballot, has strengthened his position in
the party since the election ; the fact that
Labor gained and the Nats, lost ground in
N. S. Wales has helped Theo. a lot, for he
was campaign director. Present indications
are that Theodore has a majority of two for
the position. Most of the new Labor mem-
bers will support him.
For eight years or more Arthur Griffith,
formerly Minister of Works, has been try-
ing to get back into the N. S. Wales A.L.P.,
from which he was expelled for supporting
conscription; and if the few A.L.P. dele-
gates who assembled at Orange the other
day can work the oracle, he is to be restored
to membership at last. At the same “con-
ference” a protest against the readmission
of Jock Garden by the Sydney heads was
ruled out of order. It is only about 34 years
since Garden stood against Labor candidates
as a Communist; but Communists are privi-
leged.
Thinking to close the Cumberland Valley
controversy, Vic. Minister Pennington
announced that 640
acres of the forest
(estimated at 40,000
acres) would be re-
served as a national
park dedicated to Vic-
torians who fell in the
war. Prof. Hartung,
leader of the move-
ment for a much more
spacious reservation,
tartly observed that
the memorial park
would be made up of
strips along the
watercourses, and
would look ■ “some-
thing like a stranded
amoeba in the midst of
an area in which ex-
tensive logging opera-
tions are auite evi-
dently intended.” He
went on to ask the
Minister “what train-
ing his advisers have
had in scientific forest
management.” Pen-
nington, who has had
the novel experience,
for a Nationalist
Minister, of finding
Vic. Minister
Pennington.
himself supported by the Age, did not reply.
Senator-elect Hal Colebatch, of Westralia,
ascribes the flat reception of Australia’s
£8,000,000 loan, in London to excessive bor-
rowing, a low opinion of the jobs in which
the money is invested, and the dearth of
sinking funds. “The third defect, however,
was overcome by the financial agreement
.between the States and the Commonwealth,”
said Hal cheerily. Wonderful is the popular
faith in the sinking fund therein mentioned
and its effect abroad.
For years Australia has raised outside
loans for two purposes—to pay for the excess
of imports over exports and to meet interest
on old loans which should be met by excess of
exports but isn’t. Now it will borrow money
to put into the sinking fund as well. There
may be a certain moral effect if the country
borrows a little extra and saves the little
extra for repayment purposes, for there will
always he the fund to chat about; hut it is
all hollow. External borrowing might be
avoided by a drastic restriction of imports,
and the Federal Government might try that
road if some of its half-hearted and half-
soled supporters would promise it their whole-
souled support instead of merely Colebatch-
ing.
Federal Labor threatens to tackle the
8.-P. Ministry on the subject of Julian
Simpson, who tried to unseat John West in
East Sydney, when the House of Reps. sits.
Simpson is a temporary clerk in the Prime
Minister’s Department, and after the elec-
tion, according to the Labor story, he was
reappointed without the preliminary of tell-
ing the Public Service Board. As, however,
the bright young man is likely to be named
secretary of Bruce’s new Industrial Depart-
ment under Tas. Senator Ogden, the sting
may be taken out of the business before
Parliament gets going.
The Vic. Cocky party is not pleased at
the exchange of Gullett for Hill in the quota
of Cabbage Gardeners in the Commonwealth
Ministry. Melbourne papers which some
time ago suggested that Bruce could do
nothing wrong are sooling the party on and,
at the same time, trying to Work up interest
in the doing 3 of Hughes and Watt. It may be
that they merely want a lively session to
make Canberra a little more worth while.
Canberra is expensive for the papers to work.
Premier McCormack’s attempts to infuse
sanity into Queensland’s Labor politics have
aroused the Red push to the idea of running
candidates of its own in a series of trian-
gular contests. But McCormack himself
being more hated than his party or his policy,
there is talk of inviting Nott, ex-Federal
member for Herbert, to run against him at
Cairns as a Nationalist with Red support—
as a Redationalist, in fact. Nott -would be
foolish to accept. It isn’t likely the Reds
would want him a second time even if he
won, and the position would be embarrassing
while it lasted, for he would have acquired a
crowd of difficult friends and supporters.
And it would be still more annoying if
McCormack, who had a big majority last
time, proved impervious after all.
Amid the confusion of talk about unifying
railway gauges, one infallible bore is pain-
fully evident. The question is really one
of fitting the 5780 miles of sft. Sin. line
(out of a total of about 27,500 miles) for
the use of 4ft. 84in. vehicles, and the bore
always says that* the solution is to lay a
third rail. But anyone who tried to put a
spare rail and spare sets of points and
crossings into the 64in. of space between
4ft. 84in. and sft. 3in., and to do this amid
the tangle of ironmongery at the entrance
to a big city, would be a train-wrecker pure
and simple. The English Great Western is
the hackneyed example of the third-rail
device, but the fact that it was a seven-foot
monster puts it in a category by itself.
South Australia has given seven days’
notice that it will plant definite contracts
for coal in England unless the N.S.W.
quotation is reduced; and that may mean a
matter of 1,000,000 tons per annum. The
miners having definitely decided that 21b.
of work at Is. is better and nobler than
41b. at lid., there isn’t much of a prospect.
In 1917 British coal was valued at about
18s. per ton, and in 1920, the great boom
year, the price was over 345. It has gone
down since because it couldn’t stay up. Here
it has to stay up whether it will or not,
and that makes the difficulty. The thing
which has to be but won’t is always a
trouble.
The Irish Free State has decided to mint
its own coins, with a harp in place
of the King’s effigy on one side and an
animal, bird or fish on the other. Also there
will be a remark in Irish. Probably this
first attempt will prove only experimental,
and will soon be superseded by something
better. It seems to lack historical interest
and to have no future. Such a relic as
the five-dollar piece, or whatever it was
called, of Eucratides of Bactria has an in-
terest because it proves his existence and
reveals how that monarch wore his helmet
and his mantle; and the Kruger sovereign
will be of value in years to come. It is a
revelation of a Boer President, the last of
his line, who had no foolish vanity and put
his countenance on his coin, whiskers, warts
and all.
Federal officials of the Timber Workers’
Union kept away from the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court when the Lukin award
was delivered.
The secretary
wrote explain-
ing that it
would be “a
waste of time
and enerav to
attempt to
point out the
great injustice
and the in-
numerable in-
c o nsistencies”
embodied i n
the minutes.
Unruffled b y
this imperti-
nence, the
Judge from
Queens land
Lukin, J.
said he had had the hooks of 10 N.S.W.
companies examined by a competent man,
who found they had averaged 2.2 p.c. for
five years, working 44 hours per week, on
capital varying from £1,700,000 to £1,868,000.
It would certainly be “a waste of time and
energy” to argue against facts like that.
Though lie can’t do anything with the
frauds who take theatrical companies out
in Australia and leave them stranded at
the Boundary Dam or thereabouts, Federal
Minister Abbott promises to keep a close
watch through the passport office on the
more dangerous sort who carry actresses
away to Asia —the bourne from which many
of them have failed to return. .In. cases of
doubt there is the remedy of insisting on
the deposit of the girls’ return fare or of
a bond to the same effect; and the depart-
ment proposes to be particular in future.
It is to be hoped that it will be, for the
sort of bond that is accepted as a guarantee
that Smith will turn up to stand his trial
often proves to be only the p.n. of a fellow-
malefactor who can’t be found.
Fritz has renewed the demand for a great
reduction in the bill for reparations., and if
he doesn’t get it he will lose his faith
in human nature. He points out that
it is impossible to pay money abroad in
satisfaction of the debt unless exports exceed
imports, and that imports exceed exports by
£125,000,000 per annum. The reasonable
answer is that he should live less luxuriously.
Fritz has done some strange financial tricks
in recent years. In 1923-24, when the great
burst was preparing, revenue and expendi-
ture were roughly f 2,430.000,000,000,000.
Next year they were about £380,000,000, and
the public debt of 1924-25 was less than a
two-hundredth part that of 1923-24. Experts
can do marvels with paper money and a gift
for high finance.
When the Willis-Lang faction got control
of the N. S. Wales A.L.P. it expelled Jack
Bailey, then and now
N.S.W. branch presi-
dent of the A.W.U.,
for alleged complicity
in Labor pre-selection
frauds. The A.W.U.
stuck to Bailey, but
he had to give up be-
ing Labor M.L.A. for
Goulburn ; nomination
and seat were cap-
tured by Stokes, whose
association, as Lud
Mayor, with a City
Council coal trans-
action was recently
the subject of stinging
comments by a Royal
Commissioner. Though
a high moral stand
was taken in Bailey’s
case, nothing has been
done to Stokes. The
A.L.P. now feels the
need of the A.W.U.’s
friendship and money,
and before the bi g
union entered upon its
Jack Bailey.
conference at Coolangatta (Q.) it was
engagingly suggested that if one concern
dropped Willis and the other Bailey the
alliance could be restored. Nofliing came
of the proposal except a tempest of refer-
ences to “Bolsheviks,” “ ‘scab’ unions,” “capi-
talist harpies” and other expressions dear to
comrades.
Debate is already warming up over the
future muncipal government of Sydney, and
it is announced that “strong representations
have been made to the Premier” that a new
elective council should get to work at the end
of 1929, when the Commissioners’ appoint-
ment ends. Before the elective system is
restored it might be worth while to consider
if employment in the municipal service
shouldn’t involve the loss of the employee’s
vote. He could reside and exercise the fran-
chise in some other municipality if he
pleased. When Alderman Smith has to give
up the right to make money by being a
municipal contractor it is equally logical that
his pal or parasite Smithson should give up
the right to help make Smith an alderman
while being a paid municipal worker.
After all, the right to vote isn’t specified
in the decalogue. In theory it is something
of priceless value; in practice the electors
have to be chased with police and law
proceedings for being too tired to go to
the poll. Of course Smithson isn’t too
tired. If Alderman Smith thought he was
Smithson would lose his job.
Fritz, who is always in tears about how
he is oppressed, has announced that he will
have to increase taxation unless the Allies
let up on the indemnity and possibly give
him back his colonies. Some recent returns
gave the taxation per head per annum in
various countries: —
Great Britain. £l4 12 6 1 Germany .. £5 13 0
France .. 711 8 Italy .. 4 6 8
United States 6 5 0 |
Britain is worst off, partly because it is
paying its war debts religiously and being
paid very irregularly. Figures published at
July, 1926, showed that it had handed to
Uncle Samuel 1110 million dollars, while
Nunkey had collected 427 million dollars
from 19 other debtors. But it doesn’t seem
to make his Hearsts and Borahs feel any
more friendly to J. Bull. ,
Randolph Bedford writes :
Re the “explanation” of Dr. Nott’s defeat in
Herbert (Q.), Federal-aid Main Roads grants are not
expended without the consent of the local authority.
Therefore the State Government could not put men
into the electorate for voting purposes. Which
knocks the bottom out of the “explanation.” Why
not acknowledge the fact that Herbert is naturally a
Labor constituency and that Dr. Nott or any other
anti-Labor candidate must be limited to one Parlia-
ment?
It is hard to imagine local authorities, an
impecunious lot, objecting to any plan for
spraying their districts with Federal-aid
money; and the suggestion that they can
exercise an effective veto under an agree-
ment to which they are not parties is comi-
cal. When the Perth Government sent a
rollicking band of Federal-aid Main Roaders
into the shaky Greenougli electorate just in
time for their votes to be transferred—the
Labor member witnessed many of the trans-
fers, and the electoral office was thoughtfully
kept open till midnight—the local authorities,
as the Parliamentary committee found, were
not even consulted. The reference to Her-
bert is equally amusing considering that the
Labor win there —by less than the number
of Federal-aid Main Roads votes in the elec-
torate —was the first since 1914.
A REGULAR CUSTOMER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The fact that 84 per cent, of the Commonwealth
£8,000,000 loan was left on the underwriters’ hands
is attributed by the London Daily Telegraph to
the prevailing impression that Australia borrows too
heavily and too regularly.”
“While I’ve money for lending my coffers
within,”
Said Bull, “I prefer it should go to my kin.
Despite all my losses you’ll find I can fork
Out cash upon easier terms than New York.
1 merely suggest you’re beginning to touch
Me rather too often for somewhat too much.”
“You’re welcome,” said Bull, “but, young
fellow me lad,
Remember I haven’t got half what I had.
Each year there are millions for Uncle to
raise,
While France and the others are shocking
bad pays.
I find him flint-hard and they know I am
soft,
But what makes you borrow so much and
so oft?
“You might sock a fair wad in your
pockets,” said Bull,
“And then for a twelvemonth or so take
a pull.
Just tighten your belt and give spending a
spell
Between applications. I’d like you as well
Or better if you but adopted some such
Device. But so often you’re wanting so
much.
’S all right,” said the Old ’Un, “but this
I’d impress:
If you must come so frequently, stick me
for less.
Cut down your requirements to bed-rock,
because
I’m not quite the Croesus, you know, that I
was.
You’ll always be welcome,” said Bull —here
he coughed—
“ But I’d sooner not see you so avid so oft.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Barangkali” : The German raider Einden
was not “smashed to pieces by the heavy surf
that breaks on Horsborough Island’ (B.
10/l/’29). Yon Mueller ran her ashore,
badly battered by the Sydney’s guns, on
North Keeling Island, 15 miles from Hors-
borough. Here, before the breakers did
their demolishing, gangs of Malays were set
to work by Cosmo Clunies-Ross, then in
charge of the islands. Connection with the
shore was made with strong wire cables
and along these an improvished bos’n’s chair
carried most of the brass fittings and any
other metal of value which could be sal-
vaged. The staff of the cable station, who
indirectly were responsible for the sinking
of the Emden, obtained no souvenirs of the
engagement except a band from a sailor s
cap and two brass buttons from a Germans
tunic. _ ...
“M.G.S.”: The passion for fencing-wire
shown by nesting magpies may cause fre-
quent electrical interruptions, but one which
recently plunged Melbourne, not into darkness,
as it happened
in the middleof
the day, but in-
to partial chaos
was traced to a
dove. The bird
associated with
Noah and Peace
had built on a
steel support
carrying 22,000
volts .to the
Yarraville ter-
minal station,
and had includ-
ed a small piece
of metal in the
construction of
its summer
bungalow.
JUST TO GIVE THE UMPIRE PRACTICE.
MAY: “What sort of a marriage was it?”
FAY: “Oh, merely a test match.”
“Avril”- In my capacity as typist to a
leeal firm I had to intimate to a well-known
and highly-temperamental author, with a
constitutional aversion to paying his debts,
that settlement of a long overdue account
would be appreciated. Earlier ' appeals,
issued periodically by the creditors, had been
loftily ignored, hut my attempt brought a
reply and the firm have it on special file
qtill ’ “These damned impertinences become
intolerable,” wrote the literary luminary on
fhe back of our envelope; “I am human, and
T tire o’
A * * * *
“P M” • The system of numbering the
hours’ right up to 24 (B. 16/l/’29) was in
use on the French railways in war-time,
When catching the train for Marseilles one
evening I ran into a Digger with a few in
«stnrlvin°- the notice board, which showed
“Marseilles 2105. Lyon 2235,” and so on.
“Struth ” he remarked, “there’s a lot more
platforms here than at Flinders-street!”
“Tuppence”: They didn’t know much
about babies on the Barkly Tableland in
1916. When my first son was several months
old we reckoned it was time for him to
have a pair of shoes. We weren’t sure of
the size, so I wired the storekeeper in Uran-
dangie to send up two pairs of shoes, one
size three and one size four. They came by
the following mail —two pairs of horse-
shoes of the ordered dimensions !
* * * *
“Murkah”: In a telephone mechanic’s
case before Justice Higgins the word “short-
circuited” cropped up. ’Sonah demanded
its precise meaning, which was duly ex-
plained. A fortnight later Higgins asked a
witness his name. Witness supplied a simple
first and last, but between them was some-
thing that sounded like royalty’s stack of
baptismal possessions. “H’m,” mused, the
Judge, “we’ll make it John Jones —you're
short-circuited.”
* * * *
“Gad”: The Salvation Army had a rough
time in England during the first few years
of its existence, and the violence it encoun-
tered seems nowadays incredible, During
one year (1882) the number of “soldiers”
in the TJ.K. who were the victims
of assaults resulting in police-court cases
was 642, and some of them were badly in-
jured. In the same year 60 S.A. buildings
were wrecked by the mob. And there was
scant chance of getting reparation from the
Government when even police protection was
given grudgingly.
* * * *
“Pudden”: The ’Ghan camelmen of the
interior were expert pilferers of loading.
Grog, on which the white teamster used to
exercise his ingenuity, left them unmoved,
but the chance of getting gratis flour was an
irresistible temptation. The method was
to lay the bags on a small tarpaulin and belt
them' with sticks. After several bags had
been well beaten, there would be enough
flour on the tarpaulin to provide Abdul with
a damper or two, at no cost except some
strenuous exertion, and the ’Ghan counts
labor as nothing when compared with money.
In the end storekeepers and stations which
had to employ camel teams hit on the notion
of getting their flour doubble-bagged. That
steadied the Pathan a bit—he had to hit
twice as hard and twice as often —but he
got there just the same.
x * * *
“Hamer”: Sydney Hyde Park’s “Tree of
Knowledge” is said to be doomed, among
other arboreal victims of the recent dry spell.
But this isn’t the original bit of timber; that
disappeared when the builders of the city rail-
way dug up the park. Thereupon those
who had argued daily under its spreading
boughs moved over to the Captain. Cook
statue, and then to another oak opposite the
Synagogue, upon which the mantle of the
old “Tree” descended. The men who group
here daily for discussion of everything under
Heaven are not all park idlers; many of
them are night-workers who have no other
opportunity of indulging their taste for
debate. It is alleged that Billy Hughes in
his young days used to drop in occasionally
to participate in the controversies under the
original “Tree of Knowledge.”
x * * *
“Veritas” : Permit me to supply “Let Go”
(B. 2/l/’29) with the essential details about
the uncompleted Anzac Memorial in Egypt, for
which the sum of £5400 was subscribed by
the Australian and M.L. units serving in the
Palestine campaign on the basis of a day’s
pay from each soldier. The El Kantara
site, the first chosen, was subsequently re-
jected in favor of the Port Said one, .where
the memorial is now being erected in the
public gardens facing the Canal. The Aus-
tralian and M.L. Governments added £11,600
to the amount collected. The assessors
appointed to judge the competitive designs
awarded the first premium (250 guineas) to
the late C. Web Gilbert, of Melbourne ; the
second (100 guineas) went to a lady sculp-
tor, Mrs. Jess Lawson Peacey, Adelaide; and
the third to William Leslie Bowles, ot Bns-
bane. The first-named had made good pio-
gress with the work when he died in IJ-o.
Arrangements were then made with Ber-
tram Mackennal to complete the memorial
by the 31st Dec. next. All the stone for
the erection of the pedestal and paving is t
be supplied from Australia,
* * *
“R. Volt” : All the scribes who have re-
tailed yarns about telegraphic errors have
remarked with an aggrieved air that the
G.P.O. has refused to compensate sufferers
for any loss that may have occurred. In
that the Commonwealth is in line with the
universal practice. No telegraphic admims-
tration in the world accepts pecuniary re-
sponsibility for mistakes beyond the cost
of the word or message mutilated. I?ey
would be mad to do otherwise. Telegraphists
are no nearer perfection than other human
beings, and their work, besides being
extraordinarily dull, is extraordinarily com-
plicated and everlastingly subject to, inex-
plicable “acts of Got I once received a
message via India which started out from
London all words and landed in Australia
Krys
dSS huge o7er«ttok U oTX baro word of
a aolitary telegram i» a fool „
new gallows m the presence of a la g
OVER THE ODDS ALTOGETHER.
“So Dot’s left her husband!”
“And wouldn’t you if you came home at 3 a.m. twice in the one
week and found him still out?”
crowd, and one Monday morning in October,
1822, no less than 34 were swung off in
six batches of five each and one of four.
This last was high-water mark, so to speak,
and such figures were never again
approached, though there was an occasion
in December, 1838, when nine were hanged
together. At some of these wholesale execu-
tions music was provided by a band and
speeches were made.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: Melbourne’s traffic cops (B.
!0/3/’29) vary in their dispositions like
other units of the human race. There is
one at a difficult intersection of whom the
uncertain motorist has a wholesome dread.
Bored to distraction by his monotonous job,
which to my knowledge he has held for
more than two years, he welcomes the diver-
sion that a breach of the regulations, how-
ever small, presents. The more expensive
the motor-car and the more important-looking
the holder of the wheel, the more he enjoys
ordering him into a corner, where the delin-
quent receives a lengthy lecture while the
traffic manages itself. Timid drivers tend
to avoid this martinet’s territory. On the
other hand, there is a cop at a very bad
spot in Richmond who is avoided for quite
a different reason. His unfailing good-humor,
courtesy and helpfulness, especially to woman
in distress, are so well known that thought-
ful motorists actually make a small detour
in order to lighten his task.
* * * *
“Sol M.”: The Melbourne police recently
dropped on a fraud who described himself as
a “doctor of iriadiagnosis, natureapathy, food
science and suggestography.” He
was found in the act of treating a
misguided woman for malignant
cancer by putting her flat on her
back and balancing a lamp on her
stomach. It was pointed out in
court that defendant’s mistake lay
in calling himself “doctor”; in
addition it was advanced that the
offence was of such a minor sort
that the maximum penalty of £5O
would be cruel, and the Court
agreeing with this view the fine
was fixed at £25. A charge of
insufficient lawful means of support
was withdrawn, it being presumably
held that the way defendant got his money
wasn’t lacking in lawfulness though the
Court had just fined him £25 for getting
it in that way. The question whether he
was a United States citizen and a fit sub-
ject for deportation wasn’t raised. Aus-
tralian law. especially in the minor courts,
is a soft, feather-beddy affair.
* * * *
“Tee Essbie”: In the early part of last
century Sydney residents were as much con-
cerned about the contamination of the Tank
Stream as their descendants are about the
pollution of the Harbor. Thus I find in the
Sydney Gazette (28/10/1820) : “With much
pain we have lately observed individuals
washing themselves in this stream of water,
particularly in that part that runs central
from King-street, because that spot is almost
secluded from every eye, that of curiosity ex-
cepted.” (Imagine the site of the G.P.U.
being once “almost secluded from every
eye.”) And this is from the Gazette cu
Mareli 1, 1826: “We actually beheld upwards
of half a dozen boys bathing in the very
stream from which, it is most probable, the
next moment many of the inhabitants ot
Sydney were obliged to supply themselves
with water for culinary purposes.
“Kyn”: Two members of Vic. Abo. Pro-
tection Board (one an M.P. and the other a
high official) went to a service the other
Sunday at the abo. conventicle at Lake
Tyers, Gippsland. A half-caste was in the
pulpit, as deputy for the absent parson, and
taking a text that enabled him to compare
leprosy of the body with sin as the corres-
ponding scourge of the soul, the preacher
socked it into its kindred and near-
kindred for manifold delinquencies. How-
ever, he was obviously not sure how far
the Biblical thunders were directed against
people in high authority, so he prefaced his
remarks by saying that he was not referring
to the members of the board present!
“R. Volt”: Ono
needs to be nn old
cableman to appre-
ciate the astound-
ing; rapidity of
wireless develop-
ment. It took the
cables 20 years to
double tlie i r
capacity by chang-
ing from simplex to,
duplex working,
i.e., the sending of
two messages simul-
taneously over the
same core. Another
30 years had to
pass before there
was any material
change in the speed
of working. The 18-
month-old Beam
has not only estab-
-lis h e d two-way
working, but on the
Canada - England
section multiplex
has been success-
fully applied. It is
highly probable
that within a few
months the office in
Collins-street will
be simultaneously
sending and receiv-
ing six messages
over the one aerial.
The change involves
additions only at
the sending and re-
ceiving ends, _ en-
abling three differ-
ent frequencies to
be transmitted and
received. The cable
concerns, although
they are experi-
menting with mul-
tiplex, could at pre-
sent only accom-
plish such a feat
by laying more
cables at a cost of approximately £30,000,000.
* * * *
“John B.”: Lithgow (N.S.W.) municipal
council, after some ineffective half-and-half
measures, recently forbade the use of garden
hoses altogether. Always out to circumvent
the law, many householders got buckets to
work and inaugurated miniature irrigation
schemes. Night calls from the council’s in-
spector soon blocked this form of activity,
but presently it struck some bright spirit that
the embargo was only on hoses “employed
for gardening purposes.” He spread the glad
news, and soon dozens of citizens had parked
cars on the edge of their gardens and were
using the hose for vehicle-cleaning purposes.
The law takes on a tough contract when it
seeks to interfere with determined men who
have a few blades of grass to save.
* * * *
Lowther Clark: As president of the United
Services Association, I would like to put
“Detonator” right concerning the war-
graves and battlefields pilgrimage to Gallipoli
and France (B. 9/l/’29). The pilgrimage is
not confined to Diggers, as he states. It is
open to all. Nor is it an expensive luxury.
“Detonator” says that for less than £lOO one
can go to England and back. That might
pay the bare steamer fare, but not the cost
of breaking off at Port Said, doing the tour
of the Mediterranean necessary for the call
at Gallipoli, and putting in eight days in
France, a week in London and three more
weeks in England and Scotland. That _is
what we propose doing for £230, which in-
cludes all charges from Australia to Australia.
sj? ❖ *
“Narara”: With all deference to the Port
Adelaide police inspector who defines the
“king hit” as “getting the first one in, to
knock the other chap senseless before he is
in a position to. defend himself” (B.
23/l/’29), the phrase hore no such meaning
in the days of my hectic youth. It was
popular then (though rarely heard nowa-
days). and it always meant the winning hit,
the blow r that either knocked a man out or
convinced him that fighting was a mug s
game.
• •••**
“Burglar’s Laborer”: “Adelaide’s” police-
court debaters over the “king hit” were all
wrong; the expression is derived from
“crowning him,” which means cracking your
victim on the head —with a bottle, for pre-
ference. A cabman enlightened a Sydney
beak on the point when he declared that
the defendant had “crowned” him. V\ hat
did you do then?” asked the magistrate.
“Do?” echoed the Jehu. “When he gets a
king hit.a man doesn’t do nothing but wake
up in ’orspital.”
* * * *
“Exdig” : The determination of the N.S.W.
police to take action against cafe proprietors
who charge “corkage” reminds me of an
experience in London during the war years.
Six of us, annoyed at the discovery that the
restaurant we patronised in Greek-street,
Soho, was charging us six bob a bottle for
wine we could get elsewhere for half the
price, filled the pockets of our army over-
coats with bottles and went to dinner
thoroughly satisfied with our own shrewd-
ness But the wily Dago in charge was not
disturbed; lie put the three bob a bottle
we imagined we were saving on to the bill
as “corkage.” We didn’t pay in full, but
when he had convinced us that it was a
recognised charge, we did pay 2s. per bottle,
something over a quid extra for the privilege
of being our own wine-carters.
GLOBE-TROTTERS’ ACIDITIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Maude Royden, the woman-preacher, describes
Australians as a rough-and-ready lot. Oswald Lewis,
Conservative candidate for Colchester, who recently
spent six weeks in this country, doubts whether the
manners or the accent of Australians —Sydneyites
particularly—are the more execrable.’’
Ingrates for sure! Unconscionable twisters
Of truth, of course! Yet, brothers, do not
flare
Into the hot retort that sears and busters
Where’er it strikes, the lie direct and bare.
Preserve your equanimity, my sisters,
Or, more colloquially, keep on your hair.
Your daily honey and your jam amid
’Twill harm you not, Amari aliquid.
Detractors come and go, like Foster Fraser;
They fire their darts, and what a din
ensues!
Some yearn to split the weasands with a
razor
Of those who broadcast such belittling
views.
My notion is, the faultier the appraiser
The less he should enrage, the more amuse.
Galled jades may wince w 7 hen gibes like these
are flung,
’Tis yours to show your withers are unwrung.
When Dickens flayed Americans, the faultier
The portraits the more frenzied the
appeals.
But I recall a satire fruitier, saltier
Than, any “Martin ,Chnzzlewit” reveals,
The rippling parody of brave Bon Gaultier
Depicting all the anguished howls and
squeals , . ..
And execrations from the land reviled
Levelled at “worthless London’s puling
child.”
Why, from the black-biled critic who asperses
Even we sons of song are not exempt.
Some call my haunting lyrics dogg’rel verses
And dub my Muse a draggletail unkempt.
But do I thereupon explode in curses?
Nay, lofty pity and amused contempt
I register, and carry on unawed....
Keep it for Oswald. Try it upon Maude.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Pickax”: The Victorian youth who un-
hesitatingly wrote down Collingwood as Pre-
mier of Victoria reminds me of an experi-
ence related by a State-school teacher at
Lefevre’s Peninsula, near Port Adelaide
(S.A.). She had been introducing her class
to the beauties of Scott’s “Ivanhoe,” with
its mailed knights, castles, moats, keeps, etc.
Presently she sought to see how much of it
they had intelligently absorbed. “Smith,
what is the portcullis?” was her first ques-
tion. Smith’s face lit up with the conscious
pride of all-round knowledge as he told her,
“Black and Avhite, Miss” —these being the
colors of the Port Adelaide Football Club.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Australia’s most ancient
church —it has just had its 120th birthday—
is at Ebenezer, on the IlaAvkesbury
(N.S.W.). A small group of Cumberland
and Scottish Nonconformists combined to
build it; the moving spirit avrs Owen Cava-
nough, a seaman on the Sirius; the others
came in 1802 at his suggestion, and all
obtained grants of land. The settlers agreed
to contribute certain percentages of their
wheat, pork and other produce to pay for a
building which would serve for a church on
Sundays and a schoolliouse on week-days. For
its time, the building was unique in one re-
spect ; no convict labor was employed. A porch
has been put up, with the founders’ names
on a tablet, to celebrate the church’s latest
birthday.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Long experience has con-
vinced me that women drivers carry on to
the road the arrogant sense of privi-
lege which makes them accept without
thanks a scat in a tram and which dates
from the Age of Chivalry when romantic
males in boiler-plate went out and killed
dragons Avhile their wives conducted
intrigues at home. Magistrates with
no practical knowledge of motoring
usually follow tradition in exempt-
ing women drivers from the respon-
sibilities borne by men, but there is
one refreshing exception on the
Bench in Melbourne. The accused,
a smartly-dressed young woman,
was charged with speeding at 55
miles an hour, refusing to give her
name, and driving Avithout a license.
She admitted to four previous con-
victions, and the beak, remarking
that Avomen can no longer be re-
garded as belonging to the weaker
sex when they sit at the wheel of
a Super-six, refused her permission
to drive for the next three years.
SHE WANTED TO BE QUITE FAIR.
YOUNG BRI DE: “How will this do—in the mornings I’LL do what I like, and in the
evenings YOU'LL do what I like?”
“J.H.M.A.”: The part of the harbor beach
at Manly (N.S.W.) where the memorial
to Captain Arthur Phillip was recently un-
veiled by Rear-Admiral Hyde was very nearly
being the scene of the pioneer Governor’s
death early in 1790, and had the blackfellow’s
spear which narrowly missed his heart been
aimed a little lower the whole course of
Australian history would almost certainly
have been altered. Had the Governor gone
underground, his successor in office would
have been Major Rohut Ross, of the Mar-
ines, commissioned as Lieutenant-Governor,
and that gentleman’s opinion of the capabili-
ties of the territory was summed up in the
pronouncement that it would be “cheaper to
feed the convicts on turtle and venison at the
London Tavern than be at the expense of
sending them here.” It is inconceivable that
Ross would have stuck out the famine period
as Phillip did. As for the other officers, Dr.
John White, the P.M.O. of the settlement,
described N.S.W. as “a country and place
so forbidding and so hateful as only to merit
execration and curses”; while Judge-Advo-
cate Collins and Captain Watkin Tench, the
most readable of contemporary chroniclers,
were not much more favorably impressed.
Everyone in the colony was starving, and
most of them were homesick. It was only
Phillip’s steadfast resolution and indomitable
courage that won through those first two
terrible years. If the old Manly blackfellow had
done what he meant to do there can be no
question that Port Jackson would have been
abandoned.
* * * *
“Chal”: None of the Stuart kings fared
as badly after death (B. 2/l/’29) as the
last of them, James 11. When he died he left
his brains to the Scotch College at Paris,
his heart to a convent at Cliaillot, and his
intestines were buried at St. Germain-en-
Laye, where stands a monument erected by
George IV. The body, minus these items,
was placed in the chapel of the English Bene-
dictines at Paris, whence it was hoped (by
the Jacobites) that it would some day be
removed to Westminster Abbey. But the
French revolutionaries used this monastery
as a prison about 1794; also they broke up
the coffins to obtain the lead for bullets.
The body of James 11. was resurrected,
with others, and was seen by an Irish sur-
geon, one Fitz-Simon, who was struck by
the fine set of teeth displayed by the royal
skeleton. He attempted to souvenir a tooth,
at the request of “a fellow prisoner, a young
lady,” but failed. The body was one of many
thrown by the guards into an excavation.
In later years George IV. tried to trace the
remains, but the quest was hopeless.
He Hi * *
“Mr. Ketch”: The despiteful treatment
meted out to Vic.’s assistant hangman in
Hawthorn (B. 16/l/’29) recalls J. F. Archi-
bald’s account of a dignified protest made
by the late Robert Howard (Nosey Bob)
against the obloquy cast on his calling. “I
don’t know,” he once snuffled to “Archie,”
“why everybody’s got such a down on me.
I’m in the Sheriff’s Department, and I
reckon I’m just as much a civil servant as
any o’ them flash young cows in th’ Lands or
Works, an’ a darned sight more useful.
Where’d Mr. Cowper [the Sheriff of the
period] be without me? Mine’s good work
well done—an’ that’s morn’n a lot of ’em
can say for what they does for their screws.”
There was sound sense in Robert’s conten-
tion. His final dealing with capital cases
was merely the culminating sequence of the
efforts of the Clerk of the Peace, the jury,
the Judge and the Sheriff, and his pay was
often better earned than that of many a
fellow civil servant.
“Anselm” : The custom of bury-
ing live persons under important
buildings in order to ensure their
safety (B. 23/l/’29) is as old as
that of burying retainers
alive to ensure tne well-
being of the illustrious
departed. The Sumerian
queen who was lately
dug up in Ur of the
Chaldees after 3000
years’ sleep was surrounded by the skeletons
of her bodywomen, while at the doors of the
tomb stood the armed guard, each man with
liis skull crushed in his copper helmet. Our
own Anglo-Saxon ancestors are credited with
the same practice; even after they put by
heathendom they are believed to "have en-
sured the safety of their Christian churches
by the burial alive of a human sacrifice,
preferably under the tower. York Minster,
mightiest and oldest of English cathedrals,
with a history far antedating the Norman
Conquest, is said to have its great triple
towers guarded in this grim fashion.
“Exon”: Bramwell Booth’s reluctance to
resign his headship of the Salvation Army
though the great majority of those com-
petent to judge are convinced of his unfit-
ness, recalls the case of an English Judge,
one of the famous Stephen clan, in 1890. A
jurist of eminence and an exceptionally
sound lawyer, suddenly he seemed to lose
his grip and gave some decisions which the
Bar regarded as extraordinary. It was
widely asserted that his memory was going,
even that liis mental powers were becoming
affected—and that everyone knew it but him-
self. It is difficult to give a hint to a
Supreme Court Judge that he is no longer
INSIDE INFORMATION.
SMALL SON : “Daddy, what does bigamy mean?”
DAD: “Trouble multiplied by two, my boy.”
capable of directing juries properly and in-
terpreting the law aright, but the professional
opinion of his deterioration was somehow
conveyed to his “ludship,” and, to his credit,
he promptly resigned. Had he demurred,
only Parliament could have removed him. It
may prove an even lengthier business before
the law courts can remove Bramwell.
* sic sjc sic
“Trevdee”: Funk and Wagnall’s Dic-
tionary has some queen Australianisms.
Among them the verb “to rabbit” is defined
as (1) “to rid a district of rabbits; to hunt
or. kill rabbits; (2) [Austral] to carry
(liquor) home as. from a public-house.”
“Running the rabbit” used to be a common
enough phrase, but I never previously heard
the abbreviation.
* * * *
“Centurion”: English papers have been
discussing the unique experience of a-certain
Mrs. Bartle, who has just attained her hun-
dredth birthday. In August, 1914, she was
confined to her home in one of the suburbs
of London. Out of consideration for her
advanced age her relatives carefully kept
her in entire ignorance of the Great War
until after it was over. The most amazing
part of it was that, though some of the bombs
from German Zeppelins fell in the suburb
she lived in, the old lady never took a tumble.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: In addition to having the most
ornate country pub in Australia, Yallourn,
Yic. Electricity Commission’s socialistic
township, has just been presented with the
finest country hospital in the State. It is
more completely equipped with electrical
devices than even the sickbays in the cities.
An admirable feature is the lighting. In-
stead of the. crude overhead lamp which mes-
merises patients in the average hospital, all
lights are indirect and on a level with the
floors. The whole costly outfit is to be
handed over to the subscribers to the Yai-
lourn medical fund free of charge.
* * * *
“St. Andrew”: The British War Office re-
cently announced that none but genuine Scots-
men would be admitted to the Scots Guards,
and now finds it difficult to define what con-
stitutes the genuine article. Obviously a
person born in Scotland is not necessarily a
Scot, and the same objection applies to the
claim of those born of Scottish parents, since
what constitutes an S.P. yvill also take a lot
of working out. In pre-war days, the London
Scottish, a crack volunteer corps, were very
strict about the qualifications of their mem-
bers, but even they permitted the enrolment
of anyone owning property in Scotland. At
least they did until a candidate presented
himself, offering as his qualification that he
ran a pawnbroking establishment in Glasgow,
and adding that he owned the freehold ath
well ath.der pithneth.
* * # *
“P.M.”: Talk of Chinamen’s names on
carts (B. 16/l/’29) reminds me of the inmate
of Kew Asylum who was loading vegetables
on to a vehicle belonging to the institution
when he decided to make a bid for liberty.
After masking his identity by painting out
the W and the SY on the cart, he cleared
out and started on. his travels as “KE A
LCJM.” His ingenuity stopped short of dis-
guising himself as a Chinaman, or he might
have got away.
* * ijt
“Feng-Shui”: The competition amongst
American millionaires to get rid of their
surplus "wealth is so keen that there is no-
thing surprising in the news that an expedi-
tion is being sent into the Pacific to run
down the sea-serpent. Of course, anybody
may see specimens by looking over the side
when steaming inside the Barrier Reef, but
these are too small to have given rise to
a legend which has persisted for centuries.
According to Bishop Pontoppidan, an eight-
eenth-century Norwegian prelate, boats’ crews
in his time were frequently lost through mis-
taking the backs of these monsters for
islands. By putting their tails in their
mouths they kept vessels becalmed for days
—years, sometimes. Ibn Batuta the cele-
brated Arab traveller of the ’fourteenth
century, was acquainted with a sea-serpent
which frequented the Maldives, and enjoyed
a diet composed exclusively of virgins, which
Ibn presumably regarded as a shocking
waste of good harem material. And in In-
dian literature there is a full description
of a sea-serpent which inhabits the Southern
Pacific, reaches enormous length, and may
be placated by bugle music. Almost any
Australian suburb would be prepared to
lend its cornet-player to an American
expedition.
* * * *
“Hard”: The granite obelisk erected at
Darwin to commemorate the flight of Ross
and Keith Smith (B. 2/l/’29) is not their
only memorial. A fine statue of Sir Ross,
suitably inscribed, stands in one of Adel-
aide’s beautiful parks.
* * * *
“Stellsby”: Mention was made in the
cables the other day of a “mammoth” wave
■which struck the White Star liner Majestic
(57,000 tons) and caused several casualties,
including one death. This simply goes to
show that the big liners tear through the
greenbacks deeper than ever. I have crossed
the North Atlantic several times at the worst
period of the year and never encountered
one of these “mammoth” waves beloved of
journalists, for the simple reason that the
8000- or 10,000-tonners rode every sort of
sea. Waves are no bigger to-day than they
were, but it is pretty -clear that the gigantic
liners of to-day are less safe than their
predecessors.
* sje *
“Strict Veg.”: Householders in Mel-
bourne’s south-western suburbs are once
more agitated over the reappearance of the
notorious hedge-burner. As far as can be
learnt he is an elderly man, and when seen
is always associated with a bicycle. He
always operates in one narrow area, selects
the driest season for his pastime, and in the
past three years has ruined the appearance
of no less than 70 front gardens. One
hedge which went up in flames was valued
by its owner at £2OO. The police arrested
a man in 1927, but had to let him go owing
to insufficient evidence. The behavior of
tb® mysterious creature points to a psy-
chological obsession, and one theory is that
£ I s a re tired gardener in whom a lifetime
of bondage to hedge-clipping has implanted
a hatred of this popular arboreal feature.
* * * *
“Runa”: A Maoriland motorist who
jumped into his car and set off at a good
speed the other day was presently intrigued
to notice that he was an object of deep
interest to the community on one side of
the road. Gesticulating women, shouting
men and excited small boys in quick succes-
sion called on him to stop, which he pre-
sently did. Dismounting, he found the
cause of the commotion was a passenger in
an unusual position, a three-year-old girl
having selected the running-board as a
sleeping-place. Neither the movement nor
the noise had disturbed the child, who was
still peacefully asleep when rescued from
her perilous couch.
THE DRESS PARADE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mosman (N.S.W.) municipal council claims to be
the only one in which the Mayor habitually sits in
robes, with his aldermen in evening dress.”
It certainly must give an air,
That chesty show of starch and black.
He’d hardy be, the wight who’d dare
That board to chide for rates unfair,
Or want his twice-paid dog-tax back.
Poor lad, that session would to him
Seem court, or lodge, or sanhedrim!
Then —garbage-tins and dust-deep streets,
Tips, depots, sins of goat and pig—
Can he get down to such who gx-eets
His Mayor all panoplied, and meets
His fellows in a front-stalls rig?
Could aldermen debate a drain
So chastely garbed? It sounds profane!
But when are safely stowed from sight
Rate-rolls and road-brooms, tips and tar,
Comes that which makes the prosiest night
Worth dressing for—the ancient rite:
Syphon, decanter and cigar!
That p’r’aps explains the bright array
Solons affect out Mosman way!
N.S.W.
THE HIPPOGRYPH.
LEX TALIONIS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have been killing time—a ghastly job,
And one which I could well have done
without.
That it deserved to die there’s little doubt;
Avaunt, regrets ! To soften were to sob.
Most surely is its blood on its own nob,
It chose its lowest gear to icear me out.
If only I’d known what I was about!
A bungling amateur, so help me Bob,
I hats what I am! Beaten, because a cow
Called Irony saw fit to act the goat
D scorn let it boil over now.
'' Ahleisure's own loose ends to bind
Time’s throat
I needs must twist my fingers in the strands,
And thus have time still hanging on my
hands.
N.s.w.
HILDA ELLIOTT.


USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed (or the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usberotel, Sydney.’*
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
'SxIK
(Drisflef
iOatcfies
12
£
Q O
Distinctive in design and thoroughly reliable, these dainty “Fx & R” Ladies’
Wristlet Watches are undoubtedly the soundest value obtainable. They have
a 15-jewelled lever movement in a solid 15ct. gold case with moire band
and gold catch. The guarantee is for 1 5 years, and they are kept in order
free of charge (breakages excepted) for 1 2 months.
Prices £9/9/- each.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.
plain figures. 23-25 HUNTER STREET. cash only.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
II
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some February birthdays :
Cecil Andrews (W.A. Director of Education), 59,
on 2nd; L. E. Bennett (Master of Wesley Coll.,
Syd.), 51, on sth; Big Brother Linton, M.L.A.
(Vic.), 51, on 7th; Dr. A. B. Walkom (gen. sec.
Australasian Science Assoc.), 40, on Bth; Robt.
Garran (Federal Solicitor-Gen.), 62, on 10th; J. M.
Chanter (formerly M.H.R. for Riverina), 84, and
P. W. Bamford (formerly M.H.R. for Herbert), 80,
on 11th; E. H. Wittenoom (ex-Pres. W.A. Leg.
Council), 75, Albert J. Gould (ex-Pres. Senate), 82,
Major-Gen. Rosenthal, 54, Prof. Carslaw (Syd.), 59,
and Prof. Ewart (Melb.), 57, on 12th; Archbishop
Kelly, 79, and Frederick Chapman (Vic. Nat. Museum),
65, on 13th; Edward Lucas (ex-S. Aus. Agent-Gen.),
72, and J. L. Price, M.H.R. for Boothby, 47, on
14th; “Banjo” Paterson, 65, Bishop Shiel (Rock-
hampton), 56, and Dr. L. Keith Ward (S. Aus.
Govt. Geologist), 50, on 17th; Justice Macrossan
(Q.), 48, and Rev. Alfred Gifford (Vic.), 61, on
20th; H. I. Cohen, M.L.C. (Vic.), 57, and Judge
Drake-Brockman, 45, on 21st; Justice Starke, 58, on
22nd; Octavius Beale, 79, and Norman Lindsay, 50,
E. C. SAINT-SMITH, the Queensland
geologist, whose opinions have been
quoted ten thousand times since Roma
first smelled oil.
on 23rd; W. A. Selle (Registrar Syd. Uni.), 46, and
H. W. Apperly (A.M.P. Soc.), 68,' on 24th; Stani-
forth Smith (Papua), 60, artist Percy Leason, 40,
Capt. H. S. Hudd, M.P. (S. Aus.), 48, and R. R.
Stuckey (S. Aus. Under-Treas.), 48, on 25th; S. Aus.
Agent-Gen. Barwell, 52, on 26th; medico-knight
James Barrett, 67, on 27th; and Rev. W. G. Marsh
(Adel.), 88, on 28th.
One result of the vacancy left on the
Queensland Bench by the death of John Las-
key Woolcoek will be the transfer from
Rockhampton to Brisbane of Frank Tenison
Brennan, whose appointment from Parlia-
ment four years ago—he was member for
Toowoomba —caused alarms and excursions.
Queensland keeps three Supreme Court estab-
lishments ; Rockhampton and Townsville
have each a resident Judge. Being the senior
extra-metropolitan man, Brennan is entitled
to the transfer.
Ex-Senator Ned Harney, who spent an
eventful 10 years in Westralia, has been
rather seriously ill in London, but the cable
reports that an operation has been success-
ful. An eloquent pleader with a magnificent
voice, Harney is one of the very few men
who have been Parliamentarians in Aus-
tralia and England and taken silk in both
countries. As Liberal member for South
Shields he always commands an audience
in the House of Commons.
Preference to soldiers gained R. M. Scott,
city engineer of Adelaide, the job of city
engineer in Melbourne. There was nothing
to choose between him and A. L. Johnson,
city engineer of Prahran, except the
fact that Scott had seen war service—not
even the size of their respective municipali-
ties. The winner is 43 years old (Johnson
is 59), and has engineered for the Holy
City since 3924. Previous to that he was
in the S.A. Public Works.
How Charlie Lee took the coach through '
during the floods of 1868 is a yarn still told (.
by old men in Hay and Deniliquin (N.S.W.) ;
the hero of that exploit died the other day
with the snow of 88 winters on his head.
A Cobb and Cos. driver, he ran the section
from Echuca (Vic.) to Hay before the rail-
way reached Deniliquin. When his coaching
days were over, he settled down as a grazier
at Booroorban.
W. R. Bayly, headmaster of Prince Alfred
College (S.A.), is to retire this year. He is
only 61, but was badly shaken in an acci-
dent in November. Bayly was grounded at
the college, and was a master there for many
years after taking honors in classics and
chemistry at Adelaide Uni.; then he went to
Geelong College as head. In 1915 he returned
to P.A.C., succeeding the veteran Chappie.
Henry Dewsbury Alves Major, a Maori-
lander who has become an eminent church-
man in England, was in Sydney the other
day on his way back to his native land. He
is principal of Itipon Hall, Oxford, editor
of the Modern Churchman and a leader of
the Modernist movement. He wrote the
life of Bishop Boyd-Carpenter. Dr. Major
had a brilliant career at the University of
Maoriland before going to Oxford and fur-
ther distinction.
Sydney’s Haldane family will take a lot
of beating for longevity. Father is 102,
mother is 101 and son Ernest, lately elected
deacon of the Bourke-street Congregational
church, is 81. They are related to the Hal-
dane who was British Secretary of State
for War before the storm burst in 1914 and
Lord Chancellor under Asquith and Ramsay
Macdonald.
H. M. Robinson, Queensland Collector of
Customs, retired the other day. He joined
the service in 1884 (it was “colonial” then),
and climbed slowly; by 1913 he was Sub-
Collector under the Commonwealth. A trans-
fer to Westralia as Collector for that State
followed in 1921. Three years later the
veteran came back to Queensland to fill the
job he has just vacated.
When the late Justice Higgins was a
member of the Vic. Assembly in 1900 there
were 16 other lawyers in the House. They
were Deakin, Irvine, I. A. Isaacs, O’Logh-
len, Shiels, Frank Maddeh, George Turner,
Moule, John Gavan Duffy, Best, Theodore
Fink, Gillott, Gair. Lawson, James Moloney
and Jack Isaacs, brother of Isaac —truly a
remarkable lot. Now there are only three
men of law in the Chamber —Attorney-
General Macfarlan and Laborites Blackburn
and ex-Attorney-General Slater.
Sir Arthur Du Cros, whose mansion at
Bognor, in the South Downs, is to be the
scene of the King’s seaside convalescence,
got his baronetcy in 1916. He is an ex-
M.P., president of Dunlops, chairman of
the Parent Trust and Finance Cos., and
director of Covent Garden Properties and
Beecham Estates and Pills. His father was
a poor man who drew a small salary as
secretary to a commercial travellers’ asso-
ciation in London. Dad and his two sons
were members of the same athletic club
and had to take turns in wearing the only
suit of togs in the family. Investments in
Dunlops turned the tide and enabled him
to leave a fortune which has been aug-
mented by his children.
Some of the papers are predicting Charlie
Marr's resignation from the Bruce-Page
Ministry. One of Hughes’s left-overs, Marr
was first of all given the Whip’s job, then
advanced to Assistant Minister for Defence.
Later, during Howse’s illness, he became
Minister for Home and Territories. But he
talked a bit too much, and one day had the
mortifying experience of listening to Bruce
denying in the House something he, Marr,
had said was going to be done. The member
for Parkes drifted back into the honoraries.
and since has been general rouseabout for
Bruce and his senior Ministers. He was
wounded to the soul when Gullett and Abbott
were taken into the Cabinet. The odds are
against his resigning, for all that.
Tw’elve months ago a Retired Police
Officers’ Association was formed in Sydney,
mainly for purposes of friendly re-union,
and at the second annual meeting last week
ex-Superintendent Saunders was elected pre-
sident. Saundei’s, though 11 years on pen-
sion, could still do a good day’s wharf-
lumping. He was sent to Broken Hill when
it was a small, rough mining camp.
HAROLD
FISHER,
Chairman of
South Australia’s
Cricket
Association,
who will be the
host for the next
Test.
and stayed till it
was the conven-
tional silver city.
At the start the
police camp con-
sisted of Saunders.
Whittaker, Steel
and a black boy.
Saunders stayed in
the force till he
was senior super-
intendent ; Whit-
taker saw more
money in keeping a
pub, and a pub-
keeper being much
m o r e important
than a police-
officer he had a
city street named
after him; Steel
transferred to the
Prisons Depart-
ment and became
Controller-General.
Judge Herbert, Administrator of Norfolk
Island, who died last week in his isolated
little kingdom at the age of 68, had a wide
experience of the outskirts of Australian
administration. A South Aus, lawyer, he
represented the Territory in the South Aus.
Assembly, then became Government Resident
and Judge at Darwin in 1905, and later was
one of the Royal Commission that inquired
into Captain Barton’s administration of
Papua. In 1910 he was appointed Deputy-
Chief Judicial Officer in Papua under Mur-
ray, wffio was then acting as Administrator,
and when Murray was named Lieut.-Gover-
nor, Herbert was made Judge of the Central
Court. Both modest, gentle fellows, the two
worked together splendidly for years. Her-
bert was a sick man when the Bruce-Pages
sent him to Norfolk Island. In less than
three years the islanders have had Leane,
Sellheim and Herbert for Administrators;
and now all three are dead.
George Cuscaden, who was Director-Gen-
eral of Australian Army Medical Services
from 1918 to 1921, having previously been
P.M.O. of Vic., has been made an alderman
by Melbourne City Council in succession to
just-dead Jeffries. He is 71 years young,
and trails after his name a K.B. He has
been, president of the Vic. branch of the
B.M.A.
William Forgan Smith, upon whom the
mantle of McCormack, Premier of Queens-
land, is likely to fall when McCormack
follows the custom of most of his rank
after a few years of office and moves to the
London Agency, the Arbitration Bench or
the House of Reps., is a Pairthsliire Scot,
and a painter and decorator by trade. His
speech is still redolent of the north of Clyde.
He reached eminence in Queensland by the
usual route: enthusiasm in union affairs,
selection for a safe seat, and then personal
■service to his constituency, a sugar area.
Definite in views and no trimmer to the
wild men of the Trades Hall, he would
make a good Premier.
Representatives of British ports will soon
be as numerous in Australia as consuls.
Major H. S. Cole recently dumped his swag-
in Burns Philp’s Sydney office on behalf of
the London and North-Eastern Railway, and
began to tell everyone in earshot that Hull
was reviving its ancient glories. Then
Harold Ford, secretary of the Glasgow Cor-
poration—he is still in his twenties —arrived
with the tale that Glasgow was Britain’s
premier port. And while the interesting pair
are careering about the Commonwealth, Lon-
don has sent a gentleman named Toovey to
say that it still holds pride of place. It’s a
sign of the times when the port authorities
of Britain realise that there is a place called
Australia.
H. R. Williams, James McColl and Jack
Gardiner, three old-time Vic. politicians, re-
visit their old haunts occasionally. McColl
even attends public functions, although he
must be half-way through the eighties. Wil-
liams finds swarries too exciting; he is Vic.'s
oldest executive councillor, having been sworn
Minister for Mines under Graham Berry on
Aug. 3, 1880. Jack Gardiner, once a whip,
has been out of politics for nearly 37 years.
He is an alderman of Melbourne City Council.
Lord Wolmer, who thinks penny postage
should be restored in Britain, is the enfant
terrible of the Conservative party. His
worst break was the announcement last year,
when he was Assistant P.M.G.. that “the
Post Office ought to be handed over to
Private Enterprise.” The Government sent
him on a long yachting cruise after that,
but he got back in time to wind up the
famous debate in the Commons on the De-
posited Prayer Book, and thereby ruin any
chance he and his friends had of getting it
accepted. He is a Cecil through his mother,
who was a daughter of the great Lord Salis-
bury, and he has the self-assured Toryism
of this family with a superciliousness of
manner which is all his own. Only 41, he
has been in Parliament, off and on, since
lie left Oxford in 1909.
Gone beyond the stars he theorised so
learnedly about, A. W. Bickerton, known
to Maorilanders of the last generation as
“Biclue.” An Englishman by birth, Bicker-
ton was professor of chemistry and physics
at Canterbury College, Christchurch, for
close on 30 years. But he held unorthodox
views on the mechanics of the universe and
views still more unorthodox on religious,
political and social questions. A college
board made up of bishops, parsons and
family lawyers gave him the choice of re-
nouncing his heresies or getting out,, and
Bickie got out. Ho turned his Wainoni
estate, several acres of picturesquely wooded
land near the city, into a picnic rendezvous
and show-place, with firework displays in
the evenings, and gathered round him a
group of disciples, more than one of whom
now occupies a Labor seat in the Fernland
talk-shop. Bickerton went to London many
years ago to enlist support for his “partial
impact” theory of cosmic evolution, but found
English savants sceptical. Recent discov-
eries concerning the nature of variable stars
have gone far to prove the correctness of
his main assumption.
Harry Clark has become chairman of the
board which tries all Vice railway employees
charged with serious breaches of the regula-
tions. The new man —he succeeds G. 11.
Sutton —is G 3 years of age and was Clapp’s
superintendent of goods-train service; he
joined the department as a lad in 1884.
Short, plump, curly-haired and twinkling-
eyed, he hasn’t an enemy in the service.
Langslow, the Nat. candidate for the
Castlemaine-Kyneton (Vic.) by-election, is
a Castlemaine lawyer. He looks younger
than Harry Lawson did when that amiable
lawyer-politician became M.L.A. for Castle-
T. K. SIDEY, Leader of the Maoriland
Leg. Council and Attorney-General
in JOUseph Ward’s new Government.
maine in 1899. Satcliell, the Labor nominee,
is a foundry moulder. While working at
Thompson’s, Castlemaine, he spent a good
deal of his spare time doing Methodist circuit
work.
Ri, Hocking, whose nephews Norman,
Frank and Joe are Thursday Island pearlers,
did useful “hush” work during the war with
Batcho and Tommy Loban, both Malays,
for helpers. In creepy night cruises, Batcho
and Tommy were landed among the coolies
in suspected Dutch territory and gathered
much useful information. Both Malays were
rewarded with the rights of Australian
citizenship; they now work for the Hock-
ings on T.I. It was Old Man Hocking who
brought deer to Friday Island, and got the
picturesque spot proclaimed as a sanctuary
for bird and animal life.
PHILLIP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The burial place of Captain Phillip, Australia’s
first Governor, was forgotten and unknown for nearly
half a century. Then his tomb was discovered,
almost accidentally, in the churchyard at Bathamp-
ton (Somerset).”
He sleeps hard by where the Avon winds
Its way to the Bristol Channel slow,
Phillip, the Master Pioneer,
Who planted the flag of England here
A hundred and forty years ago.
There were Empire-builders, before and since,
As staunch and fearless and iron-willed,
But never a man of our restless race
Who chose and clave to so rare a place
For those who followed his steps to build.
There were men of little and lesser faith,
111-fitted the adverse tide to stem.
On a sterile shore, under skies aflame,
They were sick for home. Did his patience
shame
Or his steadfast courage hearten them?
They sighed ’neath the gaunt and giant gums
For the spreading oak and the gracious
elm.
His only the vision prescient
That saw in a virgin continent
A greater Britain, a wider realm.
He wrought and passed. But the plinth
was laid,
Laid well and truly. What do we owe
To him who the heat and the burden bore,
Who found no trouble or trial too sore
A hundred and forty years ago!
He sleeps hard by where the Avon winds
’Tween 'bordering willows gnarled and
bent—-
No vale more velvet from Thames to Tay—
And shining brasses his deeds portray... .
But a world away is his monument.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Do You Keep Power Transmission Records?
Y/6.
!8
w
S 3
Figures regarding the belts used on every drive in
your factory will sometimes disclose power leaks that
should be stopped; drives on which the belts wear
out much more rapidly than they should; drives that
are a source of trouble through faulty Belting
Equipment.
The user of
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
is assured of the quality and serviceability of his belting equipment—of
efficiency, long life and low cost of upkeep.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Tanners and Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen’s
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell & Sons,
Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & Upton,
Auckland.
Patterson & Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
Get your ~i|
S@s#er’s
PAINTS and
VARNISHES
from
AGENTS
EVERYWHERE. 1
THEY "KEEP ON KEEPING ONI
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
O. Gilpin, Ltd.
, Dividends
Pref. To Re-
Profits. 7 p.e. Ord. serves. Deficit.
June, £ £ £ £ £
49,902
1926.. 83,072 738 20 p.c.= 71,983 10,351 39,551
1927.. 93,003 4628 15 „ „ 60,000 28,375 11,170
Reserves.
1928. .113,189 7000 17i „„ 71,645 34,544 23,368
Despite trade depression and other difficul-
ties, this co., which operates a chain of 74
retail drapery and clothing stores throughout
the country districts of Vic., N. S. Wales
and S. Aus., did a brisker turnover than
usual last year; and evidently profit margins
had not to be cut fine to do it either.
The spring in gross profit (£274,562) was
£27,771; exes. (£161,372) took only £7585
of the increase. Thus the net result bene-
fited by £20,186, which was more than double
the previous year’s increase. After allowing
for the pref. requirements the balance of
the year’s net earnings was 27.1 p.c. on the
average ordinary capital compared with 20.1
p.c. and 22.8 p.c. in the two preceding terms.
The ords., which shared in last year’s im-
provement, were given an extra 2$ p.c.,
making 17| p.c. for the year, and then only
a bit more than two-thirds of the year’s
profit was distributed.
The £34,544 that thus remained in the
business made the total visible lay-by £23,368
in excess of the £50,000 at which goodwill
and leaseholds figure in the accounts. Hither-
to goodwill alone had stood at £50,000, no
value being placed upon leaseholds in the
books, though only two years ago the co. owned
less than half the premises from which it was
then trading. Meanwhile the board has
adopted a policy of property purchase, thus
preserving the growing value of the very
wide goodwill that it is building up, and at
the same time gaining a little relief from the
ever-increasing demands of the landlord.
During the last two years £29,662 has been
added to the book value of freeholds —no
less than 13 properties were purchased
during the last term.
That the co. livened its turnover at a
time when most of its competitors found
trading difficult was probably because it was
able to buy on a better basis than the in-
dividual store. Another advantage of the
chain system is that selling and other over-
head charges are usually less than in the
unit store. A further feature of the co.’s
business is that trading is on a cash basis,
thus eliminating bad debts and much of the
expense of book-keeping, and reducing the
burden of finance. Here is the position as
balance-sheet figures disclose it: —
1926. 1927. 1928.
Pref. capital .. .. £23,400 £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ordinary capital.. .. 400,000 400,000 420,705
Overdraft .. . . 65,905 98,117
Sundry creditors.. .. 55,434 44,126 65,305
Freehold and buildings 77,768 93,300 107,430
Plant and equipment .. 31,915 31,454 31,912
Stocks 439,216 439,832 632,616
Cash, book debts, etc. .. 11,480 8,363 7,182
At the close of last accounts the stock sheets
totalled no less than £192,784 more than at
the previous balance. To finance the bigger
purchases the board went to its bankers for
£98,117, leant on trade creditors for an
extra £21,179, and got in £20,705 of new
ordinary capital; the balance came from the
year’s undivided profits.
The all important item there, of course,
is stocks, which represent over 75 p.c. of the
balance-sheet total. The current year’s result
will largely depend upon the basis on which
stocks have been taken into the sheet. The
£23,368 of reserves shown in the table —all
of it represented by stocks —is only 3.6 p.c.
of their book value.
The business, which was established by
O. Gilpin in 1895, was taken over by the
present co. in 1922. There were then 50
country branches; four years later the total
was 73, and in order to lighten the debt
and facilitate the property purchase scheme
the public was offered £lOO,OOO 7 p.c. cum.
prefs. At the time a fixed 7 p.c. was not
attractive and a substantial part of the issue
had to be taken up by holders of the ords.,
who were mostly the old proprietors and
others connected with the business. How-
ever, the position has since become more
inviting, and the pref. scrip now commands
a premium of Is. on the market. Last year’s
net profit was over 16 times the annual pref.
requirements, and the backing amounted to
£5 Bs. lOd. per share in net tangibles, sub-
ject to goodwill.
Interest now centres in the possibility of
the public becoming interested in the ords.,
which, thus far, are not quoted on ’Change.
Nominal capital was increased during the
year to a round million by the creation of
460,000 ords. and 40,000 employees’ shares.
Incidentally, the business is almost entirely
staffed from top to bottom by women.
Farmers and Settlers’ Co-op. Insurance Co.
Income. Losses. Exes. Profit. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
July, ‘ 7087
1926*.. 87,041 36,173 47,184 3684 3403
1927 . . 63,419 32,739 30,575 105 3298
Reserves
1928 . . 61,407 25,601 32,121 3685 387
*lB months.
Mainly owing to rebates on workers’ com-
pensation premiums and keen competition
for whatever business was offering in the
country districts, where this co. gathers a
very substantial part of its income, there
was a falling-off of £16,339 in gross pre-
miums (£87,655) last year. But since re-
insurances (£27,914) were £14,216 lighter,
net premiums (£59,741) were only £2123
below the 1927 figure, and interest, etc.
(£1666), brought in a trifle extra, re-
ducing the drop in total income to £2012.
Losses were more favorable; they took 42.8
p.c. of the year’s net premiums compared
with 52.9 p.c. and 42.1 p.c. in the
two preceding years. The expense ratios
were 53.7, 49.4 and 54.9 p.c. back to 1926 ;
they are far too heavy considering the semi-
co-operative nature of the business.
The year’s underwriting result was a
profit of £2019 as against a loss of £1450 in
the previous term. Amalgamating the under-
writing figures for the last six years, the
result is still £2038 on the wrong side of
the ledger. That was due not so much to
losses —-though losses were much heavier
than thej£ used to be —as to heavy expendi-
ture. This commenced in 1922, when it was
decided to push the business faster than it
was inclined to go. The co. was then only
seven years old, shareholders had received
a run of 8 p.c. divs., and the whole of their
capital and £659 besides was intact. Since
then £6llB spent on extension and organi-
sation has been capitalised—the figure was
£6OOO at last balance, and accumulations
were only £387 in excess of that. Also share-
holders have gone hungry for the last six
years; and that defeats the object of the
float. In order to secure reinsurance facili-
ties premiums could not be reduced below
those of other offices; policy-holders were, in-
stead, invited to take a share interest propor-
tionate to their insurance business, and it
was hoped that in due course good divs.
would be paid, which would be equivalent to
a reduction of premiums. The non-payment
of dividends upsets that little scheme.
Recently there was a change in control,
and the drift appears to have been arrested;
but a lot more money will need to be accu-
mulated before the position becomes attrac-
tive. Paid capital is £54,990; and total funds
at last balance were £55,377, equal to 92.6
p.c. of the year’s net premium income. This
is not so strong a position as is usually
looked for. However, the quality of the
assets is improving, as this comparison of
balance-sheet figures shows :
1926. 1927. 1928.
Paid capital .. .. £54,844 £54,982 £54,990
Creditors and outstanding
claims .. .. . . 4,905 9,204 5,635
Equipment, leases, etc. . . 2,905 3,674 5,484
Sundry debtors .. . . 24,164 19,421 15,283
Cash, investments, etc. .. 29,277 37,794 39,744
Shares in other cos. .. 500
Over 65 p.c. of the tangibles is in cash,
public securities, etc., as against 42.8 p.c.
two years ago. The policy-holder can there-
fore go to sleep in comfort.
Active competitors, who have linked up
with the producers’ organisations, have cut
into the field that the F. and S. Co-op. origin-
ally mapped out for itself. And apparently
they are there to stay.
Commonwealth Life (Amalgamated).
This is the Commonwealth Life (Amal-
gamated) Assurances, Ltd., which registered
in Sydney, Oct. 20, 1926. It took over the
businesses of the Commonwealth Life (which
set up in 1920) and Citizens and Graziers’
(which began in 1921) as from Sept. 30,
1926. The idea behind the welding of the
two concerns was to reduce costs, and thus
brighten the outlook for both policy-holders
and shareholders. At Dec. 31, 1926, paid
capital in the Commonwealth was £141,159
in fully-paids ; in the Citizens and Graziers’
it was £155,504, and there was £121,779 at
call and £5905 unpaid. Each of the old cos.
continues to function as a holding concern.
The Amalgamated co. bought the two busi-
nesses for £129,192 (in shares), of which
£100,357 was for goodwill and £28,835 for
surplus net tangible assets. The liability
under policies that were taken over amounted
to £54,620 at Dec. 31, 1925. Later £lB,OOO
odd (in shares) was paid for the right to
future profits from the Queensland business
of the Citizens and Graziers’. In 1927 the
small life business of the Colonial Provident
was bought. At Sept. 30 that year £396
had been paid on account of the goodwill;
no other details concerning the deal have
been made public, but as last year £1327
was added to the purchase account without
comment, it looks as if £1723 was paid for
the policies taken over from the Colonial
Provident. Thus, in all, at Sept. 30 last,
goodwill figured in the Amalgamated Co.’s
books at £120,466, and there was £1406 of
preliminary exes, besides.
The lay-out of the first accounts, to Sept.
36, 1927, obscured the position as far as
new business costs were concerned; but
accounts at Sept. 30 last give a much clearer
view of the business. Looked at as a whole
it has moved in this way:—
Excess
Income. Claims. Exes. Income.
1927.. £114,155 £11,213 £87,361 £15,581
1928.. 125,883 15,065 92,287 18,351
Last year £120,922 was gathered in net pre-
miums, or £10,980 more than in the previous
term, and interest, etc. (£4961), harvested
an extra £748. Claims were proportionately
heavier; but exes., which took 73.3 p.c. of
the year’s income, were 3.2 p.c. lighter. Thus
the excess of income over outgo (£18,531)
improved £2770.
The trouble is the high cost of putting
the business on the books. In the Ordinary
branch 1856 policies were issued last year
for £427,863 and £11,925 of first and £37,007
of renewal premiums were gathered. Claims
took £7286 and exes £31,158. Assuming that
it cost 7$ p.c. of the renewal premiums to
handle old business, then the year’s first pre-
miums cost 243 p.c. The figure is a clear
call to the board to closely examine the out-
lets. The co. was able to collect 84 p.c.
of the ordinary premiums that fell due for
renewal, and that was satisfactory. In
the Industrial branch £66,422 of premiums
were got in at a cost of £57,053 (85.8 p.c.) ;
claims took £5013. The Accident business
registered a loss of £1293.
How much of the business in force is
whole-of-life is not stated, but the bulk of
the Industrial policies taken over a couple
of years ago were endowment assurances, and
tjiat makes the call for prompt economy
louder.
The office assumes that the assurance fund
will earn 4 p.c.; last year’s interest, etc.,
was equal to 6.1 p.c. on the mean fund,
thanks to the assistance of the share capital
that was still intact.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures disclose it:—
1927. 1928.
Government securities .. .. £64,875 £87,636
Loans on mortgages .. .. 14,152 12,439
Cash and deposits .. .. 5,783 4,714
Loans on policies .. . . 390 700
Book debts 9,143 8,110
Equipment 10,535 9,279
Total tangible assets .. .. £104,878 £122,877
Sundry creditors .. .. . . 6,413 6,204
Net tangible assets .. .. £99,465 £116,673
Life fund 71,067 89,130
Surplus £28,398 £27,543
Paid capital 149,415 149,415
If the £89,130 at which the fund stood at
Sept. 30 was equal to the liabilities under
policies at that date, and that is by no means
certain, then policy-holders could see a
margin of £27,543, and there was 3s. Bd. in
net tangibles to represent each £1 of share
capital.
Negotiations with a view to amalgamating
the Commonwealth General Life Co.’s busi-
ness have been proceeding for some time.
The position in that respect was reviewed in
the “Wild Cat” columns on Jan. 16.
The Amalgamated co.’s future largely de-
pends upon the management’s ability to cut
costs.
United Distributors.
This co. amalgamated the businesses of the
United Distributing Co. (N.S.W.), Ltd.,
and the United Distributing Cos. (Vic.)
Pty., Ltd., in 1924. Later it took over the
businesses of the Australian Distributing Co.,
United Distributing Co. of Queensland and
the Knights Light Co. All the old businesses
were claimed to be steady profit-earners,
and improved showings were expected to fol-
low upon the heels of expanded business,
assisted by cuts in overhead and other costs
as a result of the amalgamation. The co.
traded in a variety of lines, including petrol,
electric-light plants, veterinary supplies,
radio, etc. It was early decided to launcu
out on a large scale, and activities were
extended to all the Australian States and
Maoriland, special attention being given to
radio goods, including their manufacture.
Turnover bounded along, and paid capital,
which was £25,500 at the close of accounts
in 1924, had grown to £100,500 at June 30,
1927, when, in order to provide for still
further expansion, £25,000 in 9 p.c. cum.
prefs. was offered at par. Thus paid capital
became £125,481 in 25,000 prefs. and 100,500
ords. at June 30 last.
Meanwhile trading results behaved in this
way:—
1925. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Gross profit .. £72,094 £83,868 £81,035 £78,437
Exes.* . . . . 55,544 72,114 78,294 82,775
Profit .. . . £16,550 £11,754 £2,741
Loss .. .... _ _ _ £4,338
•Includes provision for taxation, depreciation, etc.
It is the radio section of the business in
which the co. has singed its fingers. It
stocked up heavily, while keen competition
and price-cutting reduced profit margins to a
shadow. The poor showing in 1927 was
largely due to the necessity for writing down
the book values of stocks, chiefly radio, and
book debts —£5014 was struck off the former
and £l3OO off the latter. Conditions failed
to improve, and during the last term it was
decided to get out of the radio-accessories
portion of the business, which then repre-
sented over 60 p.c. of the co.’s trade. It
was the unloading of these stocks and the
expense of starting new departments
that was mainly responsible for last year's
loss of £4338, including £650 put aside for
taxation. Also the Perth, Adelaide, Laun-
ceston and Hobart branches threatened to
become a drag, so it was decided to close
them down and to trade at those centres
in future on an agency basis. This, it is
anticipated, will bring about a direct saving
of £12,000 p.a., and further substantial sav-
ings in other directions are expected.
Whether, despite all this, the management
will bo able to find profitable employment
for the whole of the present capital, of
which £24,981 was got in last year, remains
to be seen. The co. continues to manufac-
ture radio receivers, and has improved
facilities for their output. Chiefly because
of this and increased supplies of hosiery,
stocks (£115,419) were £18,128 heavier than
at the close of accounts in 1927. To carry
this and an extra £9363 of book-debts, the
co. was leaning upon outsiders, mostly trade
creditors, for an additional £16,672 when
the books were last ruled off.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures disclose it:—-
1927. 1928
Paid capital .. .. £100,500 £125,481
Overdraft .. .. 19,078 17,563
Sundry creditors .. 38,737 • 56,924
Plant, etc. .. .. 8,749 9,366
Shares other cos. . . 26 56
Stocks 97,291 115,419
Book debts . . . . 55,740 65,103
Cash 225 373
On paper there was a more or less liquid
surplus of £106,408 at .Tune 30 last. That
was including stocks, which represented over
60 p.c. of the tangible assets. But until the
last of the radio parts are cleared off the
shelves the real position will remain obscure.
The unloading, expected to be complete at
the end of last month, will be an important
factor governing the current term’s results.
In the new hosiery department turnover is
said to be satisfactory, and, for the Septem-
ber quarter, sales generally were reported on
the increase. As to the future, all that can
be said definitely is that it is full of un-
certainty. The co. has the advantage of a
wide connection; the rest depends upon man-
agement.
The prefs., which are entitled to a cumula-
tive 9 p.c. and have priority as to capital,
were recently on offer at 17s. At the close
of last accounts they had a net tangible
backing of £4 125., most of it in the book
value of stocks. The ords.. which are to be
listed shortly, had a backing of 17s. lOd.
in net tangibles, all of it in stocks.
N.Z. Refrigerating Co., Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1918.. 66,479 14 p.c. = 41,100 25,379 285,320
£50,000 of internal reserves disclosed ( „ 0n
£300,000 of reserves transferred to capital j
1919.. 147,940 16£ p.c. = 75,000 72,940 108,260
1920.. 80,802 12$ „ „ 75,000 5,502 114,062
1921.. 48,727 8~ „ „ 48,000 727 114,789
1922.. 48,484 6£ „ „ 37,500 10,984 125,773
1923.. 49,103 61 „ „ 37,500 11,603 137,376
1924.. 59,163 6i „ „ 37,500 21,663 159,039
1925.. 38,329 61 „ „ 37,500 829 159,868
Goodwill item, £36,310 .. .. .. 123,658
Written off goodwill, £12,103 .. .. 135,661
Loss.
1926.. 7.412 Nil 128,249
Written off goodwill, £12,103 .. 140,352
Profit.
1927.. 48,486 74 p.c. = 47,723 763 141,115
Written off goodwill, £12,104 .. 153,219
1928.. 33,042 5 p.c. = 31,816 1,226 154,445
This co. operates in one of the best lamb-
and mutton-producing centres in the world.
But owing to the dry conditions which pre-
vailed during the early part of 1928, many
lambs failed to fatten up to local expec-
tations. This increased the proportion of
seconds; the average weight was less and the
quantity of stock treated was below the pre-
vious year's figures. The killing season
opened with fat stock at a high figure; prices
eased later, then strengthened again. Also,
slipe wools were about 15 p.c. below the pre-
vious year’s level. From one such cause and
another the board wrote the year’s net profit
at £45,145, or £15,444 below the 1927 figure,
notwithstanding a steady strengthening of


BRITISH
en
ts
ENGINES
Old Listers Never Die
they simply “keep on keeping on.”
What others think
of LISTER Engines
Mr. A. J. Holt, of Zara, via Murwillumbah,
writes:—"The Lister Engine I bought from
you 1 7 or 18 years ago has been working
every day, has had nothing done to her,
and has never stopped. I have now put
spare parts into her, and she seems to have
got a little more power.”
Mr. James F. Anderson, Central Tilba,
wrote on 21st July, 1928:—“My 4-h.p.
Lister Engine is still going strong, after
being in use 1 5 years, and the only part
to be renewed, up to the present, has been
the hose connection to the water tank.
Mr. W. B. Crosbie, of Bucki, Henty,
writes:—“My Lister Engine is running
splendidly now. Have had it since 1915,
and this is the first replacement of any
kind except, of course, spark plugs. The
Lister is a grand engine for shearing
machines.”
Mr. G. D. Shipton, Bunberra, Bolong,
wrote on 29th July, 1925:—“Just a line
in reference to Lister Engine I purchased
from you five years ago. I have run her
ever since without the slightest hitch. 1
never even cleaned the sparking plug since
I got it until a few days ago, and I have
never had a bolt or a screw out of it, so
this will give you some idea how well this
engine has served me. I have chaffed
hundreds of tons of corn, planter and
hay without a break. I am quite sure this
must speak volumes for the Lister Engine.”
NO one ever yet saw a worn-out Lister engine. Not
in Australia, anyway, for the Lister has only
been here 20 years.
Once a Lister is installed on the job it runs smoothly
and efficiently for year after year without requiring
any attention except refilling fuel tanks, oiling, and
occasionally grinding in the valves. We have letters
from owners who have worked their Lister engines
every day for up to 1 8 years without repairs, replace-
ments, or any other mechanical attention. These
engines are still giving faithful service—running all
night if necessary without attention —and show no
sign of needing any assistance on the job. A few
spare parts would make them virtually new engines.
Is it any wonder that the British Lister Engines are
world-famous? Give us your address and we will
send you interesting particulars of a Lister engine that
will handle your power problems with efficiency and
economy.
IS
°i«TISH BUICV
r ;§
i ;
*
A
:
FARM ENGINES
4i, 62, 8, 10 and 14 B.H.P.
Also the Lister Junior in lj|, 2£, 3| B.H.P.
VICTORIA Mitchell & Co. Pty., Ltd., West Footscray
N.S.W Dangar, Gedye & Co., Ltd., Young Street, Sydney
QUEENSLAND. . Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd., Eagle St., Brisbane
SOUTH AUS. . . Horwood, Bagshaw, Ltd., Mile End, Adelaide
WEST AUSTRALIA .... Malloch Bros., William Street, Perth
PATON.


Don’t Lose
Your Money!
MORE THAN HALF
OF ALL REGISTERED
COMPANIES FAIL.
dr
If you invest anything
at all you can’t afford
to be without
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
FEBRUARY NUMBER ON SALE FRIDAY.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or ‘‘Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock + GF + Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7500
varieties to choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
Cheap to buy, easy to handle and instal, unaffected
by corrosion, rust or tubereulation, and practically
costless to maintain, Pioneer Wood Pipe is the ideal
medium of conveying any fluid. Its uses cover every
industrial and rural purpose, and its records of service
show consistently efficient performance with maximum
economy. Send for our latest data book. The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near
Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Foots-
cray, Victoria.— Advt.
* * * *
W. Soren Jensen, late Mt. Morgan G. M. Co.,
Consulting Mining Engineer, 33 Boyle Street, Cre-
morne, Sydney. Box 220 D, G.P.0., Sydney. Tel.
Ylss7.— Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hasssel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE. —Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Boar(I, Moree.— Advt.
GILT-EDGED SECURITY
FOR ALL MOTORISTS
TRADE U MARK REGISTERED
LOOK FOR THE
“SILVER EDGE”
FOR TOURERS.
RAYBESTOS BELACO LTD.
LONDON.
I
e
LOOK FOR THE
“GOLD EDGE’
FOR HEAVY DUTY.
Factory Representative*.
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Melb.
è
boord&so*
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
I
DT
-Swift & Company Ltd.. AtiHtrnluHiun Agents, 26 3» Clarence St.. Sydney'
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office : Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in. Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-Glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone,
etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claim% Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
prices in the Smithfield (Eng.) lamb and
mutton market.
After taking £12,104 to write off the last
of the goodwill which was bought with the
Wanganui Meat Co.’s works in 1922, a 5
p.c. div. was paid —24 p.c. less than in the
previous year—and the £1226 that remained
made the visible lay-by £154,445. Paid
capital is £636,310. Including the writing
off" with profits, the year’s result was 7.5
p.c. on capital, compared with 10, f, 6.4,
9.9 and 8.2 p.c. back to 1923. These poor
showings are due largely to keen competition,
which has so reduced profit margins that
earnings are sensitive to even small fluctua-
tions in the markets. Although the price-
cutting has frozen many small operators out
of the business and thus helped the turnover
of the survivors, it is clear that the latter
have not got much out of the bigger trading.
However, to old holders the present div.
is •worth much more than it looks. In 1919
paid capital was doubled by a gift of
£300,000 out of profits that had been accumu-
lated during the fat years of the British
meat-purchase scheme and other war con-
tracts. One result of this is visible in the
moderate divs. of the last eight years, the
average being 5.7 p.c.: another is that the
scrip has fallen to a discount.
The co.’s reserves are all invested in the
business. Whether the whole of the profits
claimed of recent years have been earned
largely depends upon whether allowances for
depreciation and contingencies, which are
made before the p. and 1. figures are written
into the sheet, prove to be sufficient. Costs'
are a vital matter nowadays, and mechanical
improvements tend to make obsolescence
more costly than ordinary wear and tear.
A year ago the chairman said that plant
had been kept in a high state of efficiency
without any expenditure on capital account.
That might be taken as a hint that expen-
diture in the nature of capital outlay on
plant has been made and charged against
revenue.
Here is the skeleton of the business as
balance-sheet figures disclose it: —
1925. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Liabilities . . £699,379 £730,799 £538,482 £534,112
Fixed assets. . 755,545 771,103 770,872 774,164
Other assets.. 726,201 724,256 576,851 582,519
There is a reserve for contingencies - and
depreciation of investments included with
sundry creditors (£384,112, down £4370 dur-
ing the year) ; the other £150,000 of liabi-
lities is a debenture debt. During the term
£3292 more was spent upon fixed assets than
was written off; the debenture over the
Pukeuri Freezing Works, which were sold
in 1922, remains unaltered at £132,500.
Prospects for the current year are bright
enough, though stock on the hoof is bringing
high prices. An aspect of the business that
may soon require the attention of Maoriland
freezers is the growth in delivery of early
lambs, due largely to the increased use of
fertiliser.
The market values the co.’s pound shares
-at 195., as against 18s. a year ago. The.
return at the current price is 5.2 p.c. on a
5 p.c. div. basis. The net tangible backing
amounts to 255. Id., nearly all of it in plant,
etc., worth what it can earn.
Broken Hill is closely watching the pro-
gress of events at Newcastle. Thus far it
has thrust aside every proposal for lowering
pay or increasing working hours, without,
however, making any alternative suggestion
for re-opening the mines that are unprofit-
able under present conditions. But if the
coalminers agree to take less in order to
get more, hundreds of men at the Hill will
be very glad to follow suit, though they
wouldn’t go out and say so on any account.
The principal obstacle in the way of any
such plan is the richness of one or two mines
—they are making good profits even now, and
their miners would naturally hate to accept
lower rates of pay. The N.S.W. Govern-
ment has had a Minister inquiring into the
matter, but he has not been helped by any
previous knowledge of the industry, and no
progress has been made.
It will not be possible, then, without seri-
ous trouble, to cut down wages unless some
plan can be devised by which these richer
mines will not directly benefit. The thing
might be practicable in conjunction with
a wages stabilisation fund, contributions
to be made thereto by those cos. now
operating. Such a fund co'uld be built
up and drawn upon at any future time
of difficult conditions. It would not be easy
to work out details, but it would not be im-
possible. The richer mines would be no worse
off than they are now, while the poorer mines
would be able to open to the great advantage
of the workpeople. The latter have thus far
been more or less kept going by relief work,
but that is getting out of the question—it
certainly can’t be continued indefinitely, as
the Government has already intimated.
H* * Hi
Roma and Longreach Oil Wells, Ltd., a
Brisbane float with a nominal capital of
£200,000 in 10s. shares, is on the market
with 100,000 of them—ls. each application
and allotment, and the balance as required.
The object is to take over P.P.P.’s Nos. 218
(Roma) and 282 (Longreach) and prospect
for oil. The vendor, Andrew Wootton, gets
no cash, but is to receive 30,000 paids when
the present issue is fully subscribed. Mean-
while his allotment is not to exceed 74 p.c.
of the shares taken up by the public.
Attention is to be given first to permit
No. 282, which is reported to be on the
southern limb of the Longreach anticline and
has been favorably reported upon, by
geologists E. C. Saint-Smith and S. R. L.
Shepherd. They recommend the sinking of
a number of shallow pits before selecting
the first deep boring site there. The Roma
permit is east of the R.O.C.’s area and
alongside the railway.
* * * *
Roma oil shares have slumped. It was
to be expected that timid shareholders would
be alarmed at the cessation of the gas flow 7
in No. 1 bore. Silting up of the hole was
responsible, but the occurrence in no w T ay
suggests exhaustion of the supply. There is
evidence that there is a very large gas pool
surrounding Hospital Hill. Operations in
No. 2 undoubtedly had a depressing effect.
The gas horizon of No. 1 was passed through
with gas showings, but, according to reports,
no test was made for oil showings, and bor-
ing is now down in the zone below the gas
pool. Thus there appears to be a reversal
of the programme which the public expected
when No. 2 started. The idea was to have
been the determination of the presence or
otherwise of crude oil at a lower level than
the No. 1 bore gas sand, and if unsuccessful
to have gone prospecting in a deeper zone,
which has not yet been penetrated. The bore
is now in virgin country.
* * * *
Return Creek Tin Dredging Co., Mt. Gar-
net (Q.), made a loss of £3650 on the first
two months’ operations. The reason given is
that the tin-saving plant failed to keep up
with the reduction section which, owing to
the easy nature of ground, got through a
yardage in excess of guaranteed capacity of
65,000- c.y. monthly at the treatment end.
In order to finance alterations to the
dredge, and to meet the cost of boring opera-
tions on the lower end of the property,
where an extra 14,000,000 c.y. of dirt has
averaged 12oz. per yard to an average depth
of 424 ft., shareholders were recently offered
12,000 £1 ords. at 12s. 6d. Also 3000 paids
are to be issued for an adjoining property.
Prior to all this paid capital v r as £70,000
in 50,000 10 p.c. cum. par prefs. and 20,000
ords.
* * * *
Birch Tin, Ltd., failed to get pay-dirt on
its Quartette lease on the Severn River,
Stanthorpc (Q.), largely because of boulders
and heavy ground that needed fracture. The
plant is being moved to an area on the
bank of the river, where it is expected to
get 21b. dirt and where the ground is be-
lieved to be more amenable.
* * * #
What a boon it would be if the clock
of time could be put back 25 years in
some of the Charters Towers mines ! During
the festive season 1903-04 the Queen Cross
spilt £65,000 in dividends, most of it around
N.Q. How graciously this shower of gold
would fall on the thirsty pastures of these
dog days ! The Q.C. put up a record, pos-
sibly for Australia, about that time, turning
out a profit of over £6OO per working day
for some months.
* * * %
“Old Warden’’: Details of the Ellyou
Goldfields Development Corporation, in
which Leslie Urquhart is interested and
which is absorbing several Australian cos.
with leases on the New Guinea goldfields,
are to hand from London. Capital is £300,000
in 1,200,000 ss. shares, of which 50,000 are
earmarked “management shares,” carrying
special voting powers, but in other respects
on the same footing as ords. A million
shares, including the management parcel,
have been taken up, 600,000 f.p. and 400,000
paid to Is. The other 200,000 shares are in
reserve. The co.’s options and acquired
areas include practically all the Edie Creek
plateau, some S sq. m. in extent. If Ellyou’s
exploratory and development work warrants
it a working co. is to be formed with a
capital of £3,000,000 in £1 shares. Of these
748,000 paids are to be allotted to the ven-
dors of the original properties—Edie Creek
Prop., 400,000; Kaindi Gold, 110,000;
Guinea Gold. 60,000; Edie Goldfields
178,000. It will be noted that the heaviest
consideration goes to those cos. whose pro-
perties have given evidence of carrying a
defined lode formation, though the Edie
Creek Prop, is a heavy producer of alluvial.
The stiffest and most important job the
Ellyou crowd have to tackle is the building
of a light railway from Salamoa to the field,
which is at present accessible only by native
pads, or by air. The task is a formidable
one, but the co.’s engineers consider it prac-
ticable. Recent advices from Rabaul state
the co. has placed an order wfith recruiters
for 2000-native laborers. This number is far
in excess of the labor that would be re-
quired for development in such a circum-
scribed area as the Edie Plateau; the infer-
ence is that they are to be put on to
construction work for the new line, which
will probably follow the valley of the Mark-
ham River after it leaves the coast.
* * * *
Westonia Gold Mine, N.L., has been
floated to acquire a lease at Westonia
(W.A.). Capital is £25,000 in 125,000 4s.
shares, of which 30,000 paids go to the
vendors, 45,000 are offered and 50,000 are
in pickle. Engineer J. Hebbard recently
stated that if the gneissic channel continues
on its present strike it must run into the
lease. The limits of the gneissic rock are
plainly placed on the maps of the West-
ralian Geological Survey. At best the lease
appears to be a prospecting venture.
* * * *
W.A. Advisory Committee—Macartney,
Mackey and Vail —of the Mararoa Co
recently recommended the Adelaide board to
accept the offer of H. E. Vail to try to form a
new co. in London to acquire the Mararoa
leases near Cue. After some delay the
board agreed. The proposed new co. is to be
in 275.000 £1 shares, and £50,000 working
capital is to be found; Mararoa shareholders
to receive one for every two shares field in
present co. Prospects look promising. The
W.A. Government put down a number of
bores on the mine to a depth of 500 ft. with
very satisfactory results. Since then Kal-
goorlie School of Mines research specialists
have stated that tests made on the sulphide
ore have proved that a high gold extraction
can be obtained by amalgamation and cyan-
ide solution processes. As ore roasting will
be unnecessary it is considered that the
all-in costs will not exceed 275. 6d. per ton.
* * * *
Golden Butterfly’s option over the New
Mararoa, Norseman (W.A.), expires in
March, though an extension is possible. The
treatment of some of the ore broken might
give shareholders an idea of the average gold
content of the deposit, and as there is a
treatment plant handy, why not? A mill
test would be more convincing than assay
results and estimates formed from gold seen
in panning-off dishes. The owners of the
Mararoa lease, adjoining on the north, are
not displeased with New Mararoa’s develop-
ments ; these indicate the lode to be pitching
into tljeir property.
* * * *
“O.B.”: Shareholders in the Manganese
Ore Co., operating 80 miles north of Meeka-
tharra (W.A.), are not feeling happy. High
wages and other costs and the exploitation
of similar deposits under more favor-
able conditions in other parts of the world
are causing much concern. After the sale
of the first big shipment of ore, which is soon
expected to sail from Geraldton, shareholders
■will have a better idea how they stand.
* * - * *
McCahon’s Great Hope mine, Wombala,
40 miles from Kalgoorlie, returned 25500 z.
from 600 tons treated during 1928, the total
yield to date being 17,4070 z. from 3771
tons, average about £2O per ton. This seems
good enough, but bids between £lO,OOO and
£20,000 cash for the property would receive
attention.
* * * *
Tongkah Harbor, the daddy of Australian
tin-dredging ventures in Malaya, is not feel-
ing as well as it used to. Founded by Teddy
Miles and the late Henry Jones,
has been a money-spinner for many years.
Non-delivery of new plant and other set-
backs resulted in a loss of £7878 for 1927.
Accounts for the year to September 30 last
show a gross profit for £12,677, which leave-
pay and depreciation gut down to a net
£2579. The year’s clean-up of 709 tons as
against 444 for the previous year was offset
by the heavy drop in the price of the metal.
Also, delay in the completion of the electric
power-plant must have snipped something off
profit margins, too. The Bidor and Chalong
Bay areas, now being worked, have several
years of life in front of them yet, and much is
hoped for from the new ground at Ban
Neang, on which No. 5 dredge is expected
to set in before the end of March. The
co.’s capital is £250,000 in £1 shares. At
Sept. 30 liabilities were £43,730. The more
or less liquids, including shares, stores and
fuel (£28,494). totalled £34,181. The mine
and plant, including a progress payment of
£103,789 on new dredges, figured at £198,478.
The scrip is selling at a shade under par on
the market.
# * * *
North Taiping, a Malayan dollar co., many
of whose shares are held in Australia, has
announced that with tin prices at their
present level there remains about four months’
payable ground to be worked on the original
property. That done, the plant will be dis-
mantled and re-erected at the co.’s new pro-
perty at Belau. This is expected to take 12
months. The co. has been a good producer,
though values recovered have been dropping
during the past few months. The Belau pro-
perty contains an estimated 6,700.000 c.y.
of 11.550 z. dirt. The life is put at 74
years on a monthly turnover of 75,000 c.y.,
which is well within the dredge’s capacity.
Surplus funds amount to nearly £24,000.
Darwin lias its tail up over the arrival of
a prospecting party from West Arm with
five pounds of tantalite ore, said to be taken
from a defined dyke formation. Tantalite is
an ore of tantalum, one of the rare metals,
and is used for electric-light filaments. Of
late its use has been greatly extended, chiefly
in the direction of displacing platinum, and
prices have gone sky-high in the last 12
months. The Darwin ore, assayed by the
Mines Department, showed 73 p.c. metal con-
tent, which is a higher percentage than has
hitherto been disclosed in Australia. It is
stated that there is plenty of the ore in
, sight. . The metal was recently quoted in
New York at 10 cents a pound, or about
£4l 13s. per short ton. But the probabilities
are that it is worth much more than that.


Once a monkey lived in a cage .
Every day the keeper strewed nuts
JUST OUTSIDE THE BARS .
"The monkey was greedy and
cALWAYS GRABBED SO MANY NUTS
HE COULD NOT PULL HIS HANDS
Back .
50 HE GOT FEWER AND FEWER NUTS,
Because an elephant came round and cleaned
them up,
And at last the monkey
Died of starvation . _
THE MONKEY THAT STARVED HIMSELF.
“The Coalminers’ Federation refuses to co-operate with the owners and the N.S.W. Government to reduce the selling price of coal. In consequence the output continues
to fall steadily, and miners’ earnings diminish.”
Poverty
Point
«-rin.-+
n „h y ■ P urin £ the run of Mhite
Largo in Melbourne, Leon Gordon adopted
the old dodge of distributing postcards to
the audience with an invitation to express
their opinion of the play. One of the replies
is stated to have been as follows:
I spent four years on the Gold Coast of Africa,
so I know what “White Cargo” means. I suffered
more than I can tell. Every minute of this play
bnngs it back vmdly and poignantly. You must
have gone through all this yourself, Mr. Gordon, to
be able to put it into a play like this. As regards
myself —l still suffer the effects, and have not long
to live.
On the other hand, Mr. Gordon might have
got a p.c. inscribed like this:—
I spent 12 years on the West Coast of Africa, so
I know “White Cargo” for what it is worth. No
English company keeps its employees without leave
on a plantation for 10 years. The period is usually
three. “White Cargo” does not give me the im-
pression that you went through all that yourself, but
rather that you got it out of somebody else’s book.
I was a champion tennis player and a plus-golfer
out there, and am still pretty good at both.
The man who could write that lives at
Brighton (Vic.), and the last time I saw him
was as fit as a ripe fig.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) An unusual scene
marked the second performance of “The
Play’s the Thing” at the St. James’s Theatre,
where on the previous evening the premiere
had been roundly hissed by the gallery.
Before the curtain went up on the second
evening Sir Gerald du Maurier, manager
and chief actor, came in front and said that
on the previous night the gallery had ruined
the play ; and he begged the new audience
to tell him after the final curtain what was
their honest opinion. They gave a more than
generous measure of enthusiasm, and again
he came out and thanked the “dear ladies
and gentlemen” for their answer. Practi-
cally every critic in London had already
endorsed the verdict of the gallqry on the
first night, and his appeal against the joint
verdict is generally considered bad strategy.
Du Maurier, who is personally very popular
and a fine, straightforward fellow, had
already received messages of sympathy from
many colleagues, and the ovation on the
second night was a tribute to him in a dis-
appointment. The play, which has been
adapted by P. G. Wodehouse from the French
of Ferenc Moluar, did very well in America,
but the elaborate attention of the Censor
has robbed it of any chance of a long run in
London.
“Cauboy”: There is every prospect of con-
cert entrepreneurs repeating in 1929 the faux
pas of 1927. In that year no less than 11
virtuosi of international fame succeeded each
other in the capital cities, and audiences
steadily dwindled until the last, but not the
least, of the procession had nearly empty
houses. Already six are promised this year.
They are Evelyn Scotney, the Australian
coloratura soprano; Dusolina Giannini, the
dramatic ditto ; Brailowsky. Russian pianist;
violinist Erica Morini; William Murdoch, the
Melbourne pianist; and Harold Williams, the
Sydney baritone. In addition, Pavlova will
have to be crowded into the short winter
season. In view of the fact that there are so
many Australians in the list it is a pity their
managers did not give them a more open field.
The failure of Australian Frances Alda was
largely due to the music-loving minority
having been financially drained by previous
importations.
“Hamfat”: The Williamson firm lost one
of its most useful actors when Eardley Tur-
ner, who had been playing right up to the
previous Saturday, died suddenly last Thurs-
day. He could give a passable performance
of any part entrusted to him, and frequently
shone out as the best performer in shows full
of big names. Turner was a bright writer,
too. He was responsible for many Bulletin
verses, stories and paragraphs, and J.C.W.
called upon him to write or adapt panto-
mime “books” on a couple of occasions. A
side-line was supplying theatrical gags for
illustration by humorous artists; one of his
good ’uns (Vincent illustrated it) concerned
a heavy mummer who, having ordered and
secured his mug of beer, asked the barmaid
to put it on the slate. “We don’t keep a
slate,” snapped Flossie. “That’s a pity,”
said the mummer. “You might forget it.”
Turner’s first appearance in Australia was
with the Beerbohm Tree co. in 1903; he
returned to England, but came this way
again, and thereafter regarded himself as
an Australian actor. He was representative
and correspondent here for the “Stage Year
Book.”
“Top Rail”: Forgetting wrongheaded
patriotism for a moment, there are sundry
important lessons that British film-makers
have yet to learn and which they will need
to learn before Australian audiences will
turn away from Hollywood. One of the
several is that what may do in a novel will
not _ necessarily do on the screen. The
movies have to be movies; there must be
brisk action from beginning to end. The sub-
jective novel is quite hopeless as film
material. Yet about half the British-made
films I have seen have built upon a sub-
jective foundation. Again, the average
person will swallow from a novelist lovers
of any age from 5 to 50, hut the screen-
maker who has ’em of any age outside about
39 to 30 takes a foolish risk. Judged by
British films, no man begins loving in the
Cold Country till he’s at least 40.
“Spokeshave”: Much as I have enjoyed
her art, I am unable to share the excite-
ment of the Taits over the pending Pavlova
visit. Amongst Slavs alone whom we have
not yet seen here are the marvellous Stanis-
lavsky, one time of the Moscow Art Theatre;
Daighilev and his amazing ballet; and
Nikita Balieff, prince of an entirely new
form of revue. At present they are in their
artistic prime. As usual, we will not see
them until their joints have grown suffi-
ciently stiff.
“Chicot”: Nellie Bramley and co. have
made a Bananaland record. They have been
running in Brisbane just on a year, and are
going stronger than ever.
“Amity”: There’s one theatrical co. that
will endorse a recent Poverty Pointer’s state-
ment that Maoriland is a better show country
than Australia —the Gilbert and Sullivan
co. that recently toured M.L. for the second
time. The tourists were astounded at the
enthusiasm of Maorilanders for Savoy opera,
not only in the cities, but all through the
country districts. The population turned up
in throngs and applauded vigorously, and
was mostly quite familiar with score and
libretto —any liberties taken with either were
pounced upon by the smallest local papers.
The co. was convinced that it could have
gone on for ever.
“Schnorrer” : The. theatrical vigor of the
new Jewish Palestine (Jewish population
less than a quarter million) is something to
be envied. Grand opera (rendered in the re-
vived Hebrew language) has had a season in
Jerusalem with people who were stars in
Russia in the parts, and it is to be revived
this year. The Habimah Theatre, a group of
actors who live like a religious order and
make an aesthetic cult of drama, has trans-
ferred from Russia to the Holy Land, and
there are three other groups, the Kinukum
(“The Kettle”), Matalei (“The Broom”)
and Tauchi (“The Parrot”).
“E.E.W.”: Cyril Richards has gone on
co the screen—in the British film “Piccadilly.”
A dancing partner was needed for Gilda Grey,
and Cyril’s agile legs were considered the
best available. Then Dupont, the director,
discovered that Richards had a film face and
could act. Result, a part.
“Rob P.”: The British Army Council’s
recent decision to scrap thousands of high-
pitch band instruments may be regarded as
the first serious step towards a world-wide
accepted low pitch. Australia still holds
out for high, but will probably give in within
two years. England will probably adopt
Continental pitch (C 517), which is almost
half a tone lower than the present. There
will then still be. a discrepancy of five
vibrations between the pitch of English and
American instruments, and, though American
manufacturers claim that their wind instru-
ments can be tuned down that much without
interfering with the intonation, I have
doubts where clarinets, flutes and oboes are
concerned. Brisbane’s new Town Hall organ
• —now almost completed—is pitched at C 517,
and this was done on the most authoritative
English advice.
“Wood’s Green” (Lond.) : Frances Alda,
as a preliminary to her usual season
at the Metropolitan Opera in New York,
went to Mexico, the land of picturesque
paradoxes, where she secured a divorce from
her distinguished husband, Gatti-Casazza.
Incompatibility of temper, such as would
satisfy the laws of the lawless Republic
(where neither of the principals has ever
resided), was easily proven, and Francie re-
turned to America a free woman. She and
her husband had gone their separate ways
for several years, although in the most
friendly fashion he had regularly engaged
her for the Metropolitan, of which he is the
director. Despite, or because of, the Mexican
dispensation, they are to remain friends; she
made her rentrge at the New York home of
opera in Puccini’s “Manon Lescaut” with a
strong cast. She was in fine voice, sang with
great expression, and gave an exhibition of
really convincing acting.
“Shep”: A few weeks back a song hur-
riedly written for a New York comedy was
such a success on the opening night that it
was decided to incorporate it immediately
in a London panto. The music was sent
by photo-telegraphy to England at a cost
of more than £lOO, and two nights after
New York heard it an English audience at
“Jack and Jill” at the London Pavilion was
listening to it. Within a week the holders of
the gramophone rights were turning out
their records and orchestras throughout the
British Isles were featuring the piece as the
first wireless song.
THE RETURN OF THE SHE
[FOR THE BULLEITN.]
, „“ C - ». Cochran, London music-hall entrepreneur,
iorecasts the return 0 f the plump chorus-girl—even
f* h< ZT haVe ‘° b,r lUW "
I Q legit- and in ’alls, in circle and stalls,
There 11 be joy in the hearts of the bald-
in i, a ?d knut, .
* °F t “ e haliers to twirl full of genuine girl,
JNot of he-she or she-he clubbed feminine,
Tf» a +
Its to caper and swerve with an opulent
Ttv iS™ ifc.
By ho a t 1 clothes, will its gender
By a gentle ellipse, all rises and dips,
Not Euclid’s straight line, as its
silhouette’s thrown.
Gone the herring-thin flanks, bony elbows
and shanks!
Luscious bulges will burgeon where now
all is flat.
What times will be theirs, all the corsetibres,
Food fiends and flesh faddists who bring
about that!
But, better than all, when grim slimness’s
thrall
Is lifted by force of a stage-magnate’s law,
It will transmute all Art, for ’twill bring
back the tart,
Ten years in cold-storage, Norm Lindsay
can draw ! ‘
N.s.w.
LYSANDER.


e
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD.
Total Assets exceed £2,000,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin,
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1)
(2)
. . , „ tn Policv-holders. (3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
Because of Annual tso ' , ~ . private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
in be Pa,a * deduction nfade iron, Ucy or bonus,.
* ( a\ In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost eveiy contingency.
( NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity . GEQ B r UCE SMITH( General Manafrer .
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Vagabond King”
Criterion “The Patsy”
Royal “Hit the Deck”
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's "The Desert Song”
Royal “Victory”
King's “White Cargo”
Palace “The Wrecker”
New Comedy “Pigs”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
♦
“Victory,” staged by the Margaret Ban-
nermans at Melbourne Royal on Saturday,
was a warning to playwrights not to mess
round with the work of other people. It
was also in its way an extraordinary experi-
ence. Here was Conrad’s novel, and yet here
it wasn’t. All the characters were there
and could be recognised; and yet they
weren’t and couldn’t. To those who had
not read the book, the play must have been
incomprehensible, a thing of shreds and
patches, of maddening hints and vague sug-
gestions. To those who had read the book
it must have been a nightmare, like reading
the Bible re-written by a bright reporter on a
divorce-case weekly. This is how it goes:—
Heyst enters. In the book he is a Swed-
ish intellectual, a Hamlet weary of the world,
profoundly disillusioned, disarmed by his own
scepticism. Also he is bald-headed, and has
large yellow moustaches. In the play lie is
the juvenile lead, a matinee idol. His intel-
lectuality is suggested by the possession of
a bookcase. Also he has changed his nation-
ality to English. (On the stage only villains
are allowed to be foreigners.) The book
takes 20 chapters to enmesh Ileyst’s tired
spirituality in a mundane passion for Lena.
In the play she rubs her hand down his
arm and the thing is done in two seconds.
In the book a dozen subtle motives account
for Heyst’s bolting with Lena to his solitary
island of Samburan. In the play it is plain
rape; yet in the same breath the dramatist
expects us to believe that the rape will be
indefinitely postponed until a parson arrives
in the interests of morality.
It is the same with the rest of the char-
MAY BEATTY, now putting lots of ginger
into “Hit the Deck” at Sydney Royal.
aeters. Schomberg, the rascally German
hotelkeeper of Surabaya, is near to Conrad’s
character, since both are a concession to
the popular need of seeing the Kaiser licked
again, if only per medium of a fictitious
nerson. But Mr. Bruce is more like his
caricatures than the others are like their
originals. In the novel the arrival of the
murderous Mr. Jones, the sensual Martin
Ricardo and the bestial Pedro on Heyst’s
island is made to symbolise the intrusion of
the world on the fragile sanctuary of a
mystic. In the play it is a spasm of crook
drama. Mr. Jones is a mystery-play villain,
Ricardo is a low-comedy Cockney and Pedro
is a pantomime conception which should
make producer Gregan McMahon sentence
himself to six weeks on bread and water
until he thinks of something better. Admit-
ting that the characters and action of “Vic-
tory,” the novel, are melodramatic, still they
are enveloped in a psychological atmosphere
which is often intensely beautiful, and they
deserved better treatment.
After forgetting the real Lena, a flabber-
gasted critic can find in his magazine ammu-
nition for a couple of rounds of enthusiasm
over Margaret Bannerman’s. There was a
lightness of touch, a dramatic sincerity about
it which made it Miss B.’s best conception.
It was not her fault that she had to live
and marry the hero, instead of being allowed
to cap a fine performance by dying nobly
like the Lena of the novel. Kay Souper
gave to Mr. Jones six foot five of insensate
melodrama, and Gerald Kirby expressed the
philosophic resignation of Mr. Heyst by
speaking his lines like a radio broadcaster
—it was a case of less Ileyst the more speed
as far as the play was concerned. Leslie
Laurier was as Javanese as a piece of Arts
and Grafts batek. Louis Goodrich’s Schom-
berg was excellent.
The Bulletin’s advice to B. MacDonald
Hastings, the author, should he meet Joseph
Conrad in the next world, is to shoot first,
whatever happens.
* * *
If it can do the distance “Hit the Deck,”
which was introduced to Harborsiders at
the Royal on Saturday, will probably keep
the Annie Croft party engaged at this or
another theatre until the return of the prodi-
gal Frith. This Showman can see no reason
why it shouldn’t and several good reasons
why it should.
For a start, the party includes Gus Bluett,
who is a rattling good comedian capable of
carrying along almost anything in the way
of a light-hearted show. He does not depend
upon the written word, which in the present
instance is uncommonly fortunate. He is a
mummer in the ancient sense of the word.
His dumb show not infrequently makes the
playwright’s prattle look as inept as here it
too frequently is. He has, too, a distinguished
stage personality; even in this footling piece
where all the male players are monotonously
garbed cap-ii-pie in sailor rig the dimmest-
sighted person in the audience never has any
doubt about his Bluett. Also, Mr. Bluett
enjoys his own mumming immensely. In
short, he is an artist, and there are not
many of the genus about, worse luck.
Another good one is the strutting, broad-
voiced, vigorous May Beatty. Her coon
character here is excellent. She can put
ginger into her work, can May, and she has
two or three satisfying songandance items
to put it into. The best vocal offerings
of the show, however, come from tne four
girls who are called the Chinese Quartette.
One of them has a subterranean voice that is
rich in unexpected humor, and their couple
of appearances are polished and pleasing
turns. Annie Croft, when this Showman
had a look at the piece, had a heavily-swathed
ankle, which was obviously causing her pain,
and in addition to preventing her from
dancing—a substitute came on and did that
job for her —also adversely affected her
voice, not a world-beater at the best of
times.
So much for personal reasons why “Hit
the Deck” should not emulate its name for a
while. A good reason of another kind is that
its jokes, with scarcely an exception, were
fabricated by a drowsy contemporary of the
dodo; and what compares with ye ancient
and bewhiskered jest in pleasing the musi-
comedy crowd ? Consider, for example,
that putting of “he barks like a dog” into
the conundrum to which the answer is an
elephant just in order to “make it more diffi-
cult.” Or take “Miss Payne, you give me a
pain,” or “You like dancing on your own
feet —well, get off mine.” Every one of these
jests raised bellows of laughter, and when to
age was added patina of smut the deep-
throated gurgles, explosive outbursts and
maidenish squeals made a rare old chorus.
That is practically all there is to “Hit
the Deck.” Occasionally the entire company
floods the naval or oriental setting and gives
way to song, but in between those occasions
there is nothing but perpetual gagging with
perennial gags. The plot is so smaTT that
even the most enthusiastic suburban gardener
would not risk a radish seed in it. The
songs, too, are nothing wonderful, and the
voices, with the exceptions noted, are even
less so. And yet this Showman expects the
piece to return'the Firm a respectable weight
of Harborside cash before the closure has
to be moved. His reasons are those already
mentioned and one other: the gags, songs
and other references to what sailors tradi-
tionally look for when they come ashore carry
an unquestionable feminine appeal, and the
theatrical management that isn t satisfied
with a thing which holds that quality is i
ass - * * *
The NS W. band contests, once a big
event of the year, have fallen on evil days;
public interest has waned with the falling otr
in band excellence. Queensland was repre-
sented on this occasion by only the Rock-
hampton Naval Band, and the only other
representative from another State was tne
Wonthaggi (Vic-) Union Band
Perhaps it is a recognised thing that tin
familiar deserves special points, Ihe .Bur-
wood District Band certainly appeared to be
penalised for venturing, for the first time
in this part of the world, H. Geehls On
the Cornish Coast”; it was the most musi-
cal event of the B-grade competition. On
the other hand, quite a number of bands
selected the worn-to-deatli Oberou (called
by some local musicians “The O’Breen in
memory of a departed bandmaster). n
B grade was won by Ivurn, with 138 points
(out of 150) for a selection from Beethoven
nicely enough executed; the IV onthaggi
combination came next, and the Mary-
borough Naval Band third, 1. R ea . 0
Randwick, did well in winning the trombone
championship, and amongst the juniors a
Westmead boy, H. Robinson, managed a 11-
flat bass very nicely. Other State champion-
ships were collared by C. Aldred (Concoid),
tenor horn; W. Nicholls (Bondi Beach),
R-flat cornet; C- Franz (Ivogarali), eupho-
nium. Wonthaggi had a fine win in the
marching contest, with Parramatta Citizens
and Burwood District second, Kurn third.
Bondi Beach Concert and Tooth’s Brewery
fourth, Westmead Old Boys fifth and Mary-
borough Naval sixth. The noises to decide
the A-grade championship were still erupting
when this page went to press.
if. & &
The outstanding feature of the seventh
weekly bill change at Fullers’ is the com-
parative absence of Mo from the programme,
that eminent comedian failing to appear m
more than 10 of the 33 items—whether this
fact contributed to the success of the pro-
gramme or not is a matter for consideration
which may be deferred. Newcomers to the
bill are Tiki Carpenter, a female imperson-
ator, who is as convincing and entertaining
as any others of his type to whom the
writer has been exposed; Verna Bain, a
dan sense of merit, whose comic version ot
the “Dying Swan” is calculated to send Pav-
lova fleeing to a nunnery if she should see
it; and Daphne and Myrtle, a double act
which, for once, does not call for the admini-
stration of chloroform to performers or
audience.
# * *
The Canadian Cowboys are still emitting
musical whoops and twirling ropes and whips
at Sydney Tivoli, where Jane Dillon con-
tinues greatly in favor. A change in a pill
that hasn’t suffered any violent alteration
for a long time is the appearance of one
Sammy Shields, labelled “a Scotch comedian
who does not make fun of his own race.”
* # ¥
Sydney Grand Opera House, where Dick
Whittington had been hawking his cat, shut
up suddenly on Saturday because, according
to the secretary of the Musicians’ Union, the
players and others got sick of waiting vainly
for the ghost to walk. Sydney’s other panto,
show, “Red Ridinghood,” at the Empire, is
still going strong. After a sound four
months’ run “The Vagabond King” will abdi-
cate from Her Majesty’s eight days hence,
and with its fine cast will go on tour to
Maoriland. Dwellers in the Shivery Isles
can be promised a ding-dong entertainment.
¥ * *
The race between R. J. Carroll and Hoyt’s
to be the first to give Melbourne the boon
of the talkies having ended in a dead heat,
the Auditorium (Hoyt’s) will open on Satur-
day with “The Red Dance,” with Dolores
Del Rio in the lead, while over the way
the Athenamm will be uncorking “The Jazz
Singer -” * * *
“The Wrecker” has been doing well at
Melbourne Athenaeum, and it was a broken-
hearted management which had to decide
to take it off to find room for the talkies.
However, the Palace saved the situation.
The panto, will cease on Friday, and rail-
way disasters will commence there on Satur-
aay - * * *
That amazingly clean comedy “The Family
Upstairs” has been reaping the reward it
merits at Sydney Palace, a showliouse that
has had a very rocky time of it ever since
it was occupied by Muriel Starr away back
in the dark ages of 1928. There has been
the customary talk of a hoodoo having de-
scended upon the venerable house, which,
translated into fact, amounts to a long and
continued descent of very poor imitation
theatrical manna. “Good News,” which is
one of those frothy musicomedies that
brightly entertain without putting any strain
upon either intellect or memory, has proved
a notable successor to “Rio Rita” at the
St. James. It has good comedians in Jimmy
Godden and the boyish Stan Foley, and the
vivacity of Elsie Prince has won that brisk
lady weeks of applause.
IRENE HOMER and the clothes she dons
for “The Patsy,” which is having a
great run at Sydney Criterion.
The Hon. Stiffy, member of the Argumen-
tative Assembly, will quit Melbourne Bijou
on Friday. “Beauty and the Beast” panto,
will then move in from the Palace.
# *
On Saturday “Dick Whittington” goes on
his travels, and Melbourne Playhouse reverts
to pictures—“ Damaged Goods,” which was
used during the war to warn Allied soldiery
against the worst peril of military campaign-
ing.
* # *
Adelaide is just now having a revival of
“The Ghost Train” at the Royal by an
Anderson co. Offerings in the picture line
include a “Battle of the Sexes,” at the
York; Beery and Hatton, very funny, at the
Pav.; and a British film, holding its own
well with a Zane Grey story, at Wonder-
graph ; and the Tom Katz saxophones almost
outshine Norma Shearer at the Regent.
* * *
“Pigs,” whose gilded sty is the Comedy
Theatre, Melbourne, will be dissected next
week.
“M.G.S.”: As a sign of the times it is
perhaps worth noting that a recent Poverty
Point contained seven pars, about the talkies,
as against nine concerning other branches of
the art of the night. Some of the writers
prophesied the imminent bankruptcy of all
investing their money in the new contrivance,
while others foretold the ultimate extinction
of the legitimate theatre. One has to go back
to about 1912 to find a similar ferment in
The Bulletin’s theatrical pages. The silent
movies were just then beginning their fell
work of destruction. From what has hap-
pened since then one can fairly judge what
will occur in the near future. Before the cel-
luloid deluge the flesh-and-blood theatre was
largely occupied with plays whose titles
sufficiently indicate their nature —“Driving
a Girl to Destruction,” “Her Love Against
the World,” “Married to the Wrong
Woman”; the Sundry Shows page bristled
with them. It is the audiences such shows
catered for which have made the fortunes for
the movie magnates. The same thing will
happen with the talkies, whatever pitch of
perfection the electricians bring them to.
The Irene Vanbrughs of the future have no
need to worry.


STONEWALL’
SHOES FOR MEN
“STONEHIDE” CLUMP
SOLE BOOT.
B 20/65. Black Box Hide.
Plain toe or toecap. Unlined.
Reinforced 3 dec. clump
“Stonehide” Sole. Water-
tight Tongue.
Post, 1/3; Interstate, 2/2-
.
** WSTONgjg IDE*
Write Desk B for Catalogue.
JACKSON'S BP
"STONE WALL” STORES
Cnr Pitt g Goul burn. S¥ Sydney.
o
;«
!-' m •?.
Si
A
*» iff ||
N/
iS
i
55,.-,
V
"S/ i :
‘7/s Quality Never Changes. ”
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
ANOTHER OF THESE GROVCHERS!
CUSTOMER: “There’s a dead fly in this beer.”
BARMAN: “You can’t tell me that. It was swimmin’ strong a few seconds ago.”
“Hectic Horace”: Visitors to Tewantin
(Q.), famous for its fishing, admire the flock
of pelicans hanging round the jetties waiting
to gobble up any bait or small fish which
may be heaved in. At one time, however,
they became a positive pest and annoyed
the local fishermen to such an extent by
hunting the fish away that the lads plotted
drastic measures. Two of the tamest birds
were caught, and, fighting desperately, were
carried into a boathouse. Presently they were
released, one having acquired a coat of
glorious red paint and the other a dressing
of tar. The effect on the remainder was
magical. Within five minutes the distant sky
was dotted with vanishing birds, chased by
the red and the black, who were doing at
least 50 m.p.h. For months after that the
river was clear of pelicans, and only when tne
anointed ones had got rid of their adornment
by growing new coats did the birds begin to
dribble back, not quite so tame as before.
* * * *
“Sea Nomad”: The Murray and Darnley
island boys and girls are the best dancers
in Torres Strait, and eclipse those of New
Guinea. For grace, variety and execution
their performances rank high among the terp-
sichorean efforts of savage races. Their cos-
tumes are magnificent —dari head-dresses
magnificently plumed, crescentic mias ot
carved pearl-shell, armlets of clinking shells,
kadik bowstring guards ornamented with
plumes and colored cowries, and skirts ot Jet
black cassowary feathers or silky fibre ot the
fig-tree root. Their dances are seasonal, dia-
bolical or just frolicsome, _ according to cir-
cumstances. The first missionaries sternly
suppressed dancing, but the present incum-
bent is broad-minded, and the natives, are
encouraged to renew their old-time rejoicings,
skull or devil worship being barred. Ihe
girls, with their head-dresses of croton leaves
and white and yellow down of the Torres
Strait pigeon, with dibi-dibi shells and goa-
riut rattles, necklet and armlets of shimmer-
ing pearlshell, brown eyes excited . and
swarthy faces smiling, make a striking pic-
ture. The music is the clapping of hands,
the crooning beat of the wasikor drum, song
and laughter, stamping of feet and occa-
sional plaintive strains from reed instru-
ments. Seen in the moonlight under the palms
of Medigee Bay, one of those dances is a
sight which lingers long in the memory.
* * * *
“Pick”: Astounding as are the long-dis-
tance jumping feats of the kangaroo, they
are rivalled by the performances of other
animals. The greyhound Ranji that travelled
with Foley’s circus used to clear a 12ft.
barrier and land 39 feet away. It’s fair to
say he got his start on a springboard. Fur-
sued by dogs on the banks of the Eucumbene,
a billygoat discomfited the warngals by
clearing a chasm in the cliffs 22 feet wide,
and he had a yard to spare where lie lobbed.
Fox-hunting on the eastern shore of Bake
George, my shooting mates and I startled
from a wattle thicket two roebucks. We
poured some shot after them as they fled
down the spur and hastened their flight. At
the foot of the range a wire-neting fence
followed the rim of a deep wash-away. Ihe
deer flew the fence and chasm, lauded grace-
fully on a rocky pinnacle, and raced on.
The fence was \\ feet high and the ravine
24 feet wide.
“Ess”: On the doors of city offices one is
often confronted with a notice, written on
a slip of paper, “Back in 10 minutes.” Out
back the door isn’t shut for a mere matter
of minutes. I rode up to a saddler’s shop
one day in Tibooburra (N.S.W.), and found
this notice on the door: “Back in three
months.” Billy Gill, the saddler and boot-
repairer, following the custom of wayback
tradesmen, was working the district shearing
sheds in a tilted cart. The local boots and
harness could wait without much incon-
venience, or the boots could be sent out to
him by coach or team; but the barber went
touring too, and regular customers got
smothered up with hair in his absence.
* * * *
“Inglewood”: About 50 years ago a China-
man named Ah Wah. who had been in
N.S.W. cooking for tank-sinkers, started to
walk to his home in Wedderburn, Vic. Tak-
ing a wrong road he got done up for want of
water and lay down to die. A crow flutter-
ing overhead uttered its caw, caw, caw to
the perishing Chow. It sounded to him like
“Ah Wah, you die!” This roused him;
saying “Ah Wah no die,” he got to his
feet and struggled on a mile or so, then
STRICTLY ACCORDING TO ORDERS.
DOCTOR : “Well, has he had any lucid intervals since I saw him last night, Mrs. Jones?”
MRS. JONES: “No, doctor—l’ve give him nothink except wot you told me to.”
went down again. The crow was soon on
hand with the same call, and Ah Wall
got up and battled on for another short
stage. This was repeated several times, the
stages getting shorter each time. The final
effort was only a few yards, but brought the
pong within sight of some teamsters, who
gave him water. Ah Wah maintained that
the crow saved his life with its taunts.
* * * *
“Pick”: “Gustave” reiterates an oft-
repeated but false theory when he says (B.
2/l/’29) that no one who has had anything
to do with abos., however civilised, will allow
one of them to walk behind. Day after day,
in company with Wallagan Alf Carter trail-
ing a loaded shotgun, I hunted the South
Coast (N.S.W.) mountains for wallabies and
pigeons, and traversed the coastal swamps
after wild ducks. My dusky friend was
usually behind, because he was a good sport,
and always wanted me to get in the first shot.
I resent “Gustave’s” undeserved libel on my
very black but very white-hearted shooting
mate.
* * * *
“H.E.R.”: Lying on my back for many
days I watched a sixpence-sized female spider
in' a shallow basket web hanging from the
ceiling directly above my head. She brought
out her young and educated them. All
gathered round to learn the art of securing
a. fly lightly caught in the web. Each took
its turn at sucking blood from the opening
made by the mother. One morning I noticed
something unusual happening. The mother
spider had gathered up the brood and was
evidently bidding them good-bye, for each
spun a filament and descended to my bed,
whence they reached the floor and went
off to fend for themselves. The parent, once
rid of the kids, began a frenzied dance, shak-
ing her web violently. I thought at first it
was grief but soon learned my mistake. From
a corner of the room came another spider
—a male. Wooing commenced immediately.
Then I comprehended why Mum had chased
the children away.
* * * *
“Hayband”: While agreeing with “P.M.”
(B. 2/l/’29) that a prad’s knowledge of
mathematics is a bigger blank than an un-
fenced O, I am compelled to think that it
has a stop-watch instinct that competently
fills the gap. Else how account for the
following? Trickery can be ruled out We
were cutting chaff near Ganmam (N.b.VV )
and carting the unsewed bags to a shed,
where they were emptied. The cart accom-
modated 12 bags. Instantly on the twelfth
being swung up Dobbin sailed. It didn t
matter how slowly they went up; he waited
patiently till No. 12 alighted and o (^ c ®-
later was standing backed into the sned.
Another time, near Mullaley (N.b.vv.), I
was carting water from a near-by creek to
a metal-crushing plant. k ourteen buckets
filled the cask. On the fourteenth splash Nug-
get vanished like free beer I ' ,a(l ““
chance of getting a fifteenth into a thimble
as I had of emptying it into that ca»k. Now,
you wise men of the bush, how did Nugget
know?
“Wingella”: If the abos. of the Murray
River deliberately poisoned their daggers or
spear-lieads, they differed from the N.T. nig-
gers I never knew them to use poisoned
spears, though I was always assured that
any spear-wound, however slight, was likely
to cause blood-poisoning, and should be care-
fully attended to. Spears made of the black
or red mangrove-wood are poisonous in them-
selves, and rusty iron spear-points that have
dried blood or decaying flesh on them are
to be dreaded. Glass spears splinter off
in the flesh, and the fragments work their
way further in, causing ugly festering
wounds. But in no case did I ever hear of
a black deliberately poisoning his spears. It
is one of the things that, among black gentle-
men, simply is not done.
“Morita” : A relic of industrial enterprise
of the past is the windmill at Nimmitabel
(N.S.W.). An enterprising pioneer had it
built of stone on the English plan, but the
venture was squashed before it com-
menced operations when a local deputation
complained that the whirling sails would
have a disastrous effect on stock. In Eng-
land grazing animals were expected to be
accustomed to the mills, but the local cockies
anticipated that, after the sails had flapped
around for a day they’d have to organise
search parties to collect their terrified horses
and cattle from the surrounding districts.
* * * *
“Runa”: Cats probably possess a more
extensive knowledge of herbalism than they
can make apparent with the limited selection
of herbs at hand nowadays. A cat-lover once
gave me a tiny leaf of cat-mint. I placed
the scrap near our cat and awaited develop-
ments. They came almost immediately.
Suddenly restless, she began to sniff eagerly;
then ran round in agitated circles until she
located the leaf. Ordinarily a sober old thing,
she seemed to go completely demented. She
rolled and gambolled, skipped and somer-
saulted, and finally ate the cause of her
frivolous conduct. I asked a chemist the
why and wherefore. “Instinct,” he said.
“Her ancestors knew all about it. But try
her some time with valerian. They caught
an escaped lion in America rolling in a
patch of valerian. He was as easy to handle
as a lamb.”
(Continued on page 20.)
SMOKY RIVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now by drifts of dusty reed, rich with Eng-
lish grasses,
Waving high with feathery seed, summer
noontide passes.
Down the far untrodden spaces, steeped in
magic strange,
Round the bends of Smoky River
Somewhere in the range.
Smoky River, over purling through the myrtle
glade
With the early mists unfurling flicked with
shining jade!
Once my dreams were distant far, but now
my fancy turns
Always home to Smoky River
Singing through the ferns.
Where the dappled pool of shade is like a
phantom lake’s,
And the little “painted ladies” flutter round
the brakes,
I can see across the haze of many a yester-
day
Butterflies by Smoky River
Golden-winged and gay ;
Undergrowth of heath and wattle, haunt of
bird and bee;
At the ford the wild hill cattle loiter
drowsily
When the evening points long fingers down
the valley’s fold
Far away by Smoky River
In the peaks of gold.
There the kestrel hangs on high, brown
wings sure and cruel,
There the airy dragon-fly darts, an arrowy
jewel,
Home of summer wren and fairy blue-cap in
the bends,
Home of curlews keening shrilly
As the evening ends.
Smoky River, in the glory that the sunset
wears,
Give me back the unread story of the
vanished years,
Wrap the cloak of peace about me, fold
me with its wings
Far away by Smoky River
Where the brown flood sings.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZTEL.


PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
Situated as they are, at the tram stop in
George-street, exactly opposite Hunter-
street, Peapes’ is a very handy centre for
men and boys.
Yet in the spacious, panelled Departments,
there is a tangible atmosphere of peace
and leisure which adds, greatly to the
pleasure of shopping.
Prices are always definitely low, as Peapes’
have to make no provision, when marking
goods, for periodical “reductions”—be-
cause they do not conduct “sales.”
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
w
T h * purest tobacco only,
Wrapped in snow-white
paper without any trimmings
has made (cC Che Qreys” the
best 'Virginia Cigarette.
It’s the Tobacco that matters
GREYS
io for 9<l CIGARETTES 20 for 1/6
MAJOR DRAPKIN & CO. Branch of the United Kingdom Tobacco Co. Ltd. [NSG»
The
Clip
ŵ
may be small or large in size, attractive or otherwise
*n quality and condition. That’s not the point. Every
grade of wool and every bale or even bag of it has
its correct market value. And if this action is taken
that full value will be secured.
Send the Wool to
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
Selling Brokers, LTD.
SYDNEY or BRISBANE,
Who secwre growers highest possible figures for every
bale or bag they sell.
AN ARTIST AT IT.
MRS. COHEN (who has invited her husband to get the breakfast):
“You poor mans! You couldn’t boil vater but vot it
vould burn.”
COHEN: “My tear, you flatter me.
“Mulyan”: I saw Dr. Budgeree, a learned
apothecary of the Bichmond Biver, apply-
ing the steam cure to blackboy Tommy, who
had a severe attack of ’flu. A pit, sft. long
and 18in. deep, was dug near the patient’s
gunyah and a fire kept burning in it till
the excavation was sufficiently hot. It was
then cleaned out. Next a bed of pine leaves
was trampled in and covered with a rug.
On that the sufferer was placed full length,
covered with another rug, and finally buried
under sand. Only his scared face was visible.
Beads of perspiration were soon oozing from
it, and Tommy’s saucer-like eyes rolled from
side to side, more from fear of the specialist
than from anything else. The doctor sat
beside him, wiping the sweat off his face
till he was steamed enough. Then he was
disinterred, well dried, and tucked in bed
away from draughts. In the old days the
pit was sometimes used by the abo. dentist.
The victim was buried to his chin, and the
tooth was knocked out by placing a pointed
stone instrument against it and striking
smartly with a mallet. Teeth were not ex-
tracted painlessly, but there was never any
bother in that dental chair.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: “Cop” (B. 5/12/’2B)
must have had some other bird in mind when
he referred to the king-parrot as being seen
only on the western plains of the Eastern
States. I have seen many small flocks and
isolated pairs in the high coastal ranges, but
in many years’ travel on the plains I never
saw a solitary specimen, and I am inclined
to believe that the bird is rarely found be-
yond the foothills. The galah, though not
so multitudinous as formerly, is still fairly
numerous on the western plains, and
although he appears to have a decided pre-
ference for the flat country he is often found
in the big timber of the coastal ranges.
* * * *
“Pfella” : .Can’t say how a joey finds its
way into its mother’s pouch, nor for that
matter anything else to be found in that
receptacle. I once read where a bushie fished
out a long-lost pipe from the depths of a
baby ’roo’s cubby, but I ha’e ma doots.
What I actually found when skinning a kan-
garoo in the nor’-west of Jarrahland was two
wee bush mice, a lizard and four brightly-
colored ’finches —all dead. Of course the
collecting was quite an easy matter for
the hopper. The country was as dry as a
bone except for the water troughs at station
runs, and at these places the ground was
generally littered with dead and dying small
bush creatures.
* * * *
“Marmite”: In the swamps round Alice
Springs (N.T.) lives a strange animal called
the kookapir. It
has nine legs and
two heads and
makes its nest usu-
ally in the branches
of the clover-tree.
Beautiful are its
markings jam-tin
color on the belly
and dark white and
green salmon on
the back. When
startled the crea-
ture emits a sweet,
mustardy cry and
erects its hind legs.
It lays its eggs on
the sea-shore and
lives on solder, nut-
meg and the juice
of the pemmican.
Although devoid of
feathers it has
wings and has been
known to fly im-
men s e distances,
but its natural
habitat is the in-
terior of the copra.
Often on a sum-
mer’s evening I
have watched these
graceful fishes
sprinting through
the jungle closely
pursued by their
deadly enemy, the
purple elephant.
The crash, crash,
crash of the ele-
phants’ mandibles
upon the carapaces
of the frightened
saurians has kept
me awake for
hours. Dissolved in
vinegar and bottled,
they make a soap
that will clean
even a black conscience, but they should he
kept away from the boilers and marked
“Don’t open till after Christmas” to obtain
the best results.
* * * *
“Ao Tea Boa”: “S.J.H.” (B. 2/l/’29)
leaves out some interesting things about the
massacre of Morioris on the Chathams. A
Maori of the Ngatiawa tribe serving as a
seaman, touched at the islands in the ’forties
and brought back to the mainland news of
the sanctuary which the Morioris had
founded after their expulsion from Maori
land. The brig Bodney, sailing into Port
Nicholson in ’5l in search of a cargo of flax,
looked like an answer to the prayer of the
cannibal Maoris for a means of reaching
their prey. The captain was decoyed ashore,
subjected to terrifying threats, and offered
reward in conformity with Maori standards
of equity. In two voyages 900 Maoris were
taken to the Chathams, and one of the most
grisly massacres in savage history followed,
The 2000 Morioris were soon reduced to as
many hundreds. Then the destroyers quar-
relied, fought and killed each other. In later
years Chatham Island became a sort of
St. Helena for Maori rebels against the
REVERSING THE PROCESS.
PRODICAL SON: “Well, -pater — er—as I’m back, are you ready to kill the fatted calf?”
FES-UP PARENT: “No, I think I’ll let you live!”
pakeha. Among these was Te Kooti, one of
the ablest and most ferocious enemies of the
colonists. He escaped by capturing the
schooner Bifleman which visited the islands
with supplies in ’6B. The crew had no
desire to die, and the old warrior got back to
the mainland, where he took bloody vengeance
on the Poverty Bay settlers.
* * * *
“Up Top”: Years ago an agitation resulted
in legislation that no pearl-shell taken from
Northern Australian waters should measure
less than five inches across. Bennet was
Customs officer then, and when John Cow-
ling, of Maubiag, sent in two tons of shell
some of which was reckoned a little under
measure, Bennet seized the cargo. The Hon.
.John Douglas tried the case, but to the
Customs man’s consternation he measured the
shell on the rounded side, not the flat, and
Cowling got his shell back, because the law
did not specify along which side a shell should
be measured. A subsequent amendment of
the Act settled that point, but not before
there had been many squabbles. At one
time Tommy Farquhar, the Pearl King,
had a consignment in cases on the wharf
awaiting shipment. Harbormaster Webster
inspected the stuff and found two shells
slightly under size. Customs-officer Bennet
formally charged Farquhar. “Show me the
shell,” demanded Farquhar. The Customs
man handed the shells over and Farquhar
promptly pitched them into the sea. “Now,
where’s your evidence?” he asked. The
Customs man had the cases opened and their
contents strewn over the wharf. In all
those thousands of shells there was not
another one under size. Both Farquhar and
Bennet were mad—Bennet because he had
slipped; Farquhar because he had to have
all that shell repacked.
* * * *
“Orn”: The color sense is well developed
in the bee. The apiarist, if his hives are
much alike, is wise in giving different colors
to the fronts as a help to a homing queen.
The color bees most hate is black. There
are some spiteful members in my bee family,
and I don gardening gloves, extended to
cover my sleeves by splicing on to them the
tops of old black socks. For one bee that
tries to dig through the white gloves there
must be a dozen that worry the black woollen
tops. They are logical little devils on the
whole, and they must have a good reason,
Can any member of the Council throw light
on the subject?
“Pudden”: In the good old days when Mt.
Cornish was a station, one of the directors
was asked to define its boundaries. His
reply was, “The whole of the watershed of
the Barcoo and Thompson rivers, and the
headwaters of the Flinders.” With a station
that size the cattle took some handling. Even
before Bedford got among them and did his
famous “lift” to Adelaide, mobs of those
cattle were always going astray. Then old B.
E. Edkins, the manager, got his big idea. He
had tailing yards erected at favored places.
At each of those tailing yards was a calf-
pen. As cows calved they were brought to
the tailing yards. Every night those cattle
went to bed, and every night all the calves
in the mob went to their pen, like the
milkers’ calves at the head station. It took
about three nights to break in a new
calf, and then he went to his pen as
meek as Mary’s little lamb. That served
many purposes. It quietened the cows, and
the calves never forgot their lesson. They
formed mobs of quiet bullocks when they
grew older, and those quiet mobs calmed the
rest of the herd.
* * * *
“Tomb”: “Gouger” (B. 12/12/’2B) is in
error when he says that notches were not
cut in the bunya-pine trees, because the
abos. venerated them. Practically every tree
that was bearing when the abos. roamed the
jungles is notched. Legend has it that in
the Wide Bay district the coastal blacks
were permitted to visit the bunya-bearing
Blacksnake country provided they did not
molest the game encountered, on the route.
They got over the difficulty by resorting to
cannibalism; killing and eating the females
of the party who weakened on the march.
Incidentally, the Blacksnake range appears
to be the northern limit of the bunya as a
fruit bearer. I have examined the cones
of several transplanted to more northern lati-
tudes, and found the nuts empty.
THE PANNIKIN OF FLOUR.
(On seeing an etching by Lionel Lindsay.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A settler’s humpy in the West,
An outpost of our race,
With lengths of sapling roughly dressed,
To keep the roof in place;
A creeping plant defying drought,
And in the noontime hour
A western woman “handing out ”
A pannikin of f10ur. ...
The little rough-built homesteads lie
Beyond the beaten track,
Where people watch the years go by
In loneliness out back.
With walls of slab and roofs of bark
To simple pattern planned,
Near dead trees rising white and stark
In “paddicks” close at hand.
Here, when the “further out” has known
The benison of rain,
And carpets waving green have grown
Across the sunlit plain;
When tanks are full, and by the trees
The stock contented rest
In full-fed ease, the settler sees
A garden in the West.
And here, in dreary months of drought
When creeks and tanks go dry,
When hope ebbs low through days of doubt
Beneath a brassy sky;
Here man will wage a stubborn fight
To hold his little run,
With scanty respite day and night,
And less advantage won.
But though the land be bare of grass,
And sheep and cattle die,
The hungry nomad need not pass
A little homestead by.
The wondrous kindness of the West
Burgeons and blossoms there,
And western folk will “do their best”
While they have aught to share.
This old sundowner at the door,
No longer seeking hire
(Since it will not be long before
He lights his last camp-fire),
He, too, has shared his all, in days
When youth and hope he knew,
With others on the far-out ways
Who needed “helping through”....
I know the West again! For here
The master-hand has limned
A scene that brings the old life near,
And memories, undimmed
By years between the Now and Then,
Enrich a firelit hour
As recollection yields again
Its pannikin of flour.
maoriland.
RIVERINA.


Hi
mm.
,■
i
a
m
m
i
US
i; •.••
■MK
£> 1
#•>' £ «*
' > ■• j
#§ a Qgf
*&>.ii H
* »
«*■
8!
Q
if'
w
NAVY
CUT
CIGARETTES


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney!
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
Royal Agricultural Society of Neu) South Wales.
Royal Easter Show
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY,
27th MARCH to 6th APRIL, 1929.
TEN DAYS SIX NIGHTS.
£14,000 PRIZES £14,000
ENTRIES CLOSE-
WINES 19th February
HORSES (including Trotting Events) 16th February
CATTLE 18th February
POULTRY, PIGEONS, CANARIES and CAGE BIRDS, 26th and 2 7th February
DOGS and CATS 28th February
AGRICULTURE (including Fruits and Apiculture) Ist March
DAIRY PRODUCE (except Export Classes) Ist March
WOODCHOPPING CONTESTS •• th March
SCHEDULES AND ENTRY FORMS ON APPLICATION.
G. C. SOMERVILLE, Secretary.
Endeavour House, 33 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
THE
Farmers 8 Settlers
Co-operative Insurance
Co. of Australia, Ltd.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL,
£250,000
Fire, Accident, Marine, Motor-car,
Workers’ Compensation, Growing
Crops, Stacks, Wool, Fencing.
SPECIALISING IN INSURANCE
FOR THE MAN ON THE LAND
ACTIVE AGENTS REQUIRED
WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
N.S.W. Office:
Wingelo House, Angel Place, Sydney
F. D. POWELL, Manager.
THE MANM
ON THELA ND 'S
PAGE
LAYING OUT THE SELECTION.
“Pick”: When selecting a home site on
the new settlement, carefully survey its pos-
sibilities and disadvantages. Decide whether
near-by swamps can be drained, and un-
sightly gutters filled by blocking them with
stones, or timber. See if there is a dry
situation on lower ground for the stables,
milking sheds and drafting pens.
For comfort and cleanliness the buildings
should stand on gravelly soil. Then in wet
weather boot-loads of mud will not be car-
ried into the house by every entrant. Have
a hill to shelter the buildings from the west-
erlies, and an easterly aspect for the benefit
of the garden and orchard. Avoid a hollow
where floods of surface water would erode
channels along every home path.
If possible, have a stream of water rip-
pling by, from whence pipes can be laid to
fill ball-cock water-troughs for the stock, and
to irrigate the cultivation patches.
Lay out the homestead with an eye to
future beauty. It will please and make con-
tented the womenfolk.
SOWING WHEAT ON LUCERNE.
“Squaremile”: Some graziers in the In-
verell district (N.S.W.) have been trying
the experiment of sowing their lucerne
paddocks to wheat or oats, so that they may
grow a good fodder crop during the winter
season when the lucerne lies dormant.
Though it has not been a complete success,
owing to dry weather in the autumn, the
results are promising. The idea is that as
soon as the last cut of lucerne is taken off,
say early in April, the land is sown to oats
or wheat with a combine, the machine
being fitted with narrow points used only
for cultivating the lucerne. Being rich black
the soil does not require a great deal of
cultivation and the combine covers the seed
over well. The next thing wanted is plenty
of rain, which falls (if it does fall) during
the autumn in that district. Given good
rain, the wheat soon shoots up and with
it a nice growth of lucerne. As soon as it
is ready sheep may be put on to it, just as
on to a wheat paddock. This will go on
(given the rain) until after the frosts are
done and the lucerne begins to grow again.
What should be done then is a matter of
choice. The farmer may keep the paddock
closely fed off by sheep until the wheat is
quite killed out, and then let the lucerne
come; he can leave the wheat to come to
grain, and then, after harvesting, put the
mower into the crop and get a lot of hay,
which would be quite valuable for home use.
It would contain much straw, and the lucerne
growth would be a good deal damaged by the
harvesting; but, even so, the hay would be
more than worth conserving, and of course the
crop could be silaged to even greater advan-
tage than using it for hay. A third alterna-
tive would be to cut the wheat for hay when
it was in the proper stage for that purpose.
The resultant hay would contain a lot of
lucerne and would be all the more valuable
as fodder. This, too, could be silaged.
A 10-BAG CROP AFTER 60 YEARS’ USE.
“Mallee”: Stan R. Catto, of Rheola, on
the southern fringe of the Mallee, has just
completed his wheat harvesting. Notwith-
standing that the land has been cultivated
for 60 years it returned 10 bags to the acre.
Since 1915 it has returned an average of
31 bushels. Mr. Catto attributes his suc-
cess to early fallowing and through culti-
vation, the use of seed of high yielding
strain every second year, and applications
of superphosphates varying from 1401 b. to
1861 b. to the acre. Sheep have access to
the fallows at all times, consolidating the
soil and keeping down weeds. He find's that
turning a large mob of sheep on the crop
■when it is showing signs of rankness results
in shorter straw, better heads, less flag and
higher yields.
STOCK-BREEDING EXPERIMENTS.
“Trad”: The theory of telegony had its
origin many years ago, in the experience
of a titled breeder of blood stock in England
who mated a mare with a quagga, the result
being a foal with the conformation of a
horse, but with distinct quagga markings.
The following year this mare was again
mated, but this time with a thoroughbred
horse, and slipped a foal that also had mark-
ings on spine and shoulders resembling those
of a quagga. The incident seemed to upset
Mendelism and all other laws of breeding,
but it was later found that the mother of
these two foals was bred from a dun-colored
South African mare. These dun-colored
horses —there are several of them in Sydney
Zoo—are a distinct type, and all carry
quagga-like spine and shoulder markings.
The scientific basis of the theory of tele-
gony, put briefly, is that a mother, having
borne offspring to a male, retains part of
the blood of that male in her system, and
that this admixture of blood may affect her
offspring born to another male. A case
quoted by “Manar” (B. 9/l/’29), in which
a child by a second husband had a birth-mark
similar to that of its mother’s first husband,
would not come within the definition of
telegony,’as the first marriage was childless.
Some years ago American scientists ex-
perimented to prove or disprove the theory.
They took a mare mated with a stallion
and a week in foal and transfused into her
veins a quantity of donkeys’ blood. The foal,
when it. was born, exhibited no donkey
characteristics. . The same experiment was
again performed, quaggas’ blood being used
instead of that of donkeys, but the offspring
showed no tendencies toward quagga mark-
ings. These experiments were held to prove,
and, I think, very logically, that there is
nothing in the composition of the blood (or
the change of it) in mammals that in any
way affects the character of the offspring.
So much for telegony.
In regard to pre-natal influence, the effects
Thousands of men fail on the land because they don t know how to
succeed; many thousands more succeed less than they should because
they lack proper guidance.
“The Bulletin” wants to encourage farmers and scientists who know
to help those who don’t know.
With that object it offers two prizes of £2O and £lO for the most
useful contributions to the “Land” pages during the six months
ending June 30 next.
All contributions submitted, whether published or not, will be con-
sidered in awarding points, and the prizes will go to the winners
of most points.
Points will be awarded for interest and practical usefulness.
The prizes are additional to the usual payment for published
contributions.
of which have, on occasion, given apparent
support to the telegonic theory, I will quote
two cases which are self-explanatory. Some
years ago I purchased a pony mare which
was a confirmed kicker in harness, and which,
though I was not aware of the fact, was in
foal. I drove this mare for some consider-
able time in a long-shafted brake, and almost
every day she would have a kick when it was
least expected, until the insides of her meta-
tarsal bones, about half-way between the
hocks and fetlocks, became very sore. One
day I noticed that she had made both these
sores bleed, and I turned her out to grass.
Some months later a colt foal was born,
with open sores in exactly the same positions
as those on his mother.
Another case which came under my notice
occurred in Karachi, India. A pony was
taken to a blacksmith to be shod for the
first time. She had to be blindfolded to
secure her forefeet. Then she lashed out
so viciously with her hind hooves that a
twitch was applied to her upper lip, and
after considerable difficulty she was shod.
About three months later it was discovered
that she was in foal, and later she produced
a foal totally blind and minus an upper
lip.
BORE WATER AND ALKALINES.
“R.X.8.” : The reverse condition of sour-
ness of the soil is alkalinity, or the presence
of an excess of alkalines, and this is as in-
jurious to plant life as sourness is. Fortu-
nately Australia has no naturally alkaline
soils, as far as we 'know, but alkalinity is
being produced by the use of bore water for
irrigation, which results in the depositing of
an excess of carbonate of lime in the soil.
The injurious action of this alkaline is to
dissolve out the humus or vegetable matter
in the soil, to corrode the stems and leaves
of plants it comes in contact with, and by
combining with the clayey content of the soil,
to form a mass sticky and slimy when wet
and almost as hard as cement when dry.
If bore water is to be used for irrigation
the land must be drained if there is no
natural run off, and the water should be run
on in channels or cross furrows so that it
penetrates the soil laterally. The water
should be used in moderation and should not
be allowed to lie in puddles on the sur-
face, and the continual use of the harrows
is desirable. To counteract the alkalinity
the use of gypsum (sulphate of lime) is re-
commended. It may be worked into the soil
in liberal quantities, and bags of it should
be placed in the irrigating flumes or channels
so that the water runs over them.
THOSE “DUMPIES.”
“Spike”: “Paul C.’s” useful article on the
subject of lumpies (B. 26/12/’2B) omits
mention of the fact that unnatural lumps
on a beast’s jaws, head or other parts of the
body may be the result of causes other than
actinonycosis. The most common causes are
knocks (such as liornings), tuberculosis and
cancer. A superficial lump on the flank of
a well-conditioned beast will, nine cases out
of ten, prove to be the result of a horning
which has ruptured the abdominal tissues.
A lump appearing on or near the salivary
gland on a poor-conditioned beast will in
most cases prove to be tubercular, though
a grass seed may, on rare occasions, be
responsible. A running at the nose and
mouth, accompanied by an offensive smell
with (or without) a persistent cough, denotes
the • tubercular beast, and the lump when
bisected will be found to contain a con-
glomoration of offensive cheesy substance.
Cattlemen, to be on the safe side, class
most head lumps as cancer, and the law
demands the cancerous animal’s destruction.
Should the beast be young and in good con-
dition, however, he is very often eaten. It’s
very risky, and if people must eat lumpies
■they should tackle only young beasts, from
vealers up to three-year-olds.
Frequently the cancerous growth appears
on the corner of the mouth, and is not
noticed until it has reached the size of a
marble. The lump should be well cut out
and the incision allowed to bleed freely be-
fore the beast is killed. At this stage an
animal so treated will provide a minimum
of risk to the consumers. As the disease
progresses the risks become graver in pro-
portion, until the removal of the growth is
impossible. The safest (and that’s not say-
ing much) method of slaughtering such an
animal is to shoot it in the centre of the
forehead and remove the head entirely with-
out a moment’s loss of time. But which-
ever way you take it, the consumption of
the meat is a precarious, unwholesome and
thoroughly unsavory practice.
MORE 4 ABOUT DAM-MAKING.
“Larrapinta”: In his instructions for dam-
making “Paul C.” (B. 2/l/’29) has omitted
reference to the silt-catcher. This is a
shallow excavation whose size depends on
that of the dam, but which, as a general
rule, is about 20ft. wide, 3ft. deep, and as
long as convenient. The water from the
catchment flows first into this pit, where it
drops the soil or clay it holds in suspension,
so that only clean water enters the dam. A
heavy log is laid across the top of the bank,
dividing the pit from the dam to save damage
by erosion, and the level of the by-wash
must always be a few inches lower than
the top of this log. Across the silt pit two
pieces of rabbit netting are placed, fastened
to stakes in the bank and strained to keep
the lower edge of the netting from sagging
to the pit bottom. This netting strains
sticks, grass, manure and other rubbish from
the water without impeding the flow. A
dam with a silt-catcher such as I’ve de-
scribed doesn’t need cleaning out more than
once in a generation, but the pit should
be cleaned out every spring, as soon as it
dries —usually a matter of a few hours’
work.
If there are willows handy, instead of plant-
ing, the bank with couch grass, as “Paul C.”
advises, cut some green sticks from grow-
ing willows and drive them into the bank.
Nearly all will grow, and their roots will
bind the bank so that the burrowing yabbies
will never make it leak. The willows are
pleasant in appearance; never spread to
cultivated ground as couch-grass does, and
don’t harm the water w T ith their falling
leaves.
HEAT APOPLEXY.
“Herdsman” : Heat apoplexy occurs among
farm stock mostly during the very hot
weather, but an attack is sometimes experi-
enced during the first warm spell. Treat it
by getting the animal quickly into the shade,
if possible where a breeze is blowing. Shower
the body with cold water (a water-can with
rose fitted is good), and keep cold packs on
the head. A stimulant made up of-equal
parts of aromatic spirits of ammonia, sweet
spirits of nitre and absolute alcohol should
be given every two or three hours. The dose
is one to two ounces in a quart of water
for a cow or horse, and half strength for
pigs. Cold water injections per rectum have
been found helpful. Cows are least subject
to attack, but if they are chased by dogs in
hot weather they may suddenly fall uncon-
scious, with delirium and death to follow.
LINSEED.
“Wrecksby” : Land that will grow wheat
or oats will grow linseed, and with the
way prices are going the prospects lin-
seed offers are worth considering. As a rota-
tion crop it is good, because it thrives on
and improves land that is in a low state
of fertility. Meggitt’s, Ltd., require 25,000
tons a year, and they will provide selected
seed at an average price of 10s. per bushel
(561 b.), and will guarantee to buy your
crop at world’s parity and with a minimum
price of £l6 per ton.
The land should be ploughed to a depth
of seven inches. Keep the harrows moving
freely a few days prior to sowing to break
the topsoil down to a good tilth. A firm
seed-bed is desirable for linseed, so the
roller should follow the harrows.
The best time for sowing in most districts
is April, but if your district is late or very
moist, follow the same times as for wheat
or oats. Before sowing spread the seed on
a tight floor, and spray it with one pint
of 40 p.c. formaldehyde to one gallon of
water. Any spraying outfit that throws a
fine mist will do. Don’t get the spray in
your eyes, and keep the seed moving with a
spade or hoe.
When dry the seed should be broadcast at
the rate of 401 b. to the acre. This can be
done with the drills by taking the points off
and fixing a board under the cups. Slant
the board a bit, so that the seed dropping on
it is evenly scattered from the machine to
the back.
Harvest when the stems have turned yel-
low and the lower leaves have fallen. At
this stage an examination of the seeds in
their capsules will show them to be bright,
plump and uniformly brown in color. Cut
with the reaper and binder, close to the
ground, and stack to dry before threshing.
Handle linseed more carefully than you
would wheat, as the seed bolls are fairly
easily detached from the straw.
WHEN PIGGY GOES TO MARKET.
“18 x 2” : He ceases to be a pig when he
goes to market. Here’s a short dictionary
of his commercial names. Prices given are
an average on the last five years’ returns in
Sydney markets. The difference between live
and dressed weight is about 25 per cent.
Suckers: Unweaned pigs, six weeks of age,
with an average dressed weight of 151 b.
Price, 12s. 6d., except at Christmas and
Easter, when they bring bigger money.
Weaners: Weaned pigs, eight weeks old,
with an a.d.w. of 251 b. Price, 20s.
Slips: Weaners that have turned 10
weeks, with a.d.w. of 401 b. Price, 30s. They
are usually bought by suburban pig-raisers
for fattening.
Stores: Pigs at 3 months with an a.d.w. of
501 b. Price, £2. Like slips, these are in
favor with suburban pig-raisers.
Porkers: These are classed as light,
medium and heavy, at 4, 4£ and 5£ months
of age respectively and with a.d.w. of GO,
90 and 1001 b. respectively. They are in big
demand if quality is good and condition
prime. Prices, £2 10s., £3 15s. and £4 ss.
Baconers: These are classed as light,
medium and heavy, at 5h 6 and 9 months
respectively, and a.d.w. of i 00,130 and 2001 b.
respectively. Prices, £5, £6 and £9 respec-
tively. Always in demand.
Backfatters: Castrated boars and sows
discarded for breeding. There is a big de-
mand for them from sausage-makers. Average
age 7 years; a.d.w. up to 8001 b. Prices.
£lO to £25.
Choppers: Rough old pigs up to 9 years,
and of any weight. Sausage-makers and
small-goodsmen buy them at from £4 10s. up.
(Continued on page 25.)


s \A i
r
A
wri
M
i\fj
K\W/
m
Easier! Quicker!!
The old methods of post-hole digging
are laborious—and costly.
The SEYMOUR POST-HOLE
DIGGER is made solely for the pur-
pose of speeding up the digging of
post-holes.
Owing to its peculiar construction it
is only necessary to lean on the handles
and turn the Digger.
The SEYMOUR bores its way into any
soil quickly and easily.
This is one of the tools that every man
on the land should have.
It pays for itself on the first few holes.
In the following sizes:—
Size .3 4 5 6 7 in.
Price: 9/6 9/6 9/6 9/6 10/3
Size 8 9 10 in.
Price .... 11/3 12/6 13/-
ersons
Proprietanj limited
51-65 Bathurst Street, Sydney. 552-592 Collins Street, Melbourne.
116-130 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
m)av\AXXXXXXXX)OOCYxi<W
•I-M-Hlt
? i L* % 3 c
nH'l'H 11
°i’£ o |*l°|‘
" £°t- * K l> £ * jfc u
• S£o •*o £ • o!\ •
brtitl#
MUM
h
joL
sol
?0§
v
' 1
■V,
t
n
/ V,\\ /x'AY jffIWVW
I°l
■ pnij—l'
s\. I! I & 'ii ® I
m
i>
|* Tj
Wall Papers
in
New Season’s designs to hand from Britain and
America. Nothing like wallpaper backgrounds.
They add elegance and distinction. Suitable
wallpapers will also correct building defects —
add warmth to cold rooms —subdue over-
lighted ones, and add height or decrease it.
We are showing now, at particularly favor-
able prices:
POLYCHROMES
TAPESTRIES
LEATHERS
OATMEALS
SATIN FINISHES
BURLAPS
STYLE BORDERS FOR PANELLING
Call and See Us, or Write for Samples.
Mention rooms you need papers for.
John Danks U Son Pty., Ltd.
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney.
391-403 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
/ r
w
m
N
r
Illustrates complete Stove
folded up, like a suitcase.
/ (Ju£ VO-inox xoj
t'PN
PRICE:
Stove with high collaps-
ible stand .... 102/6
Stove without collaps-
ible stand 84/-
We’ve got just the stove you’ll want
for your next camping, touring, fishing or
hunting trip! It’s the Coleman—the Camp
Stove years ahead! Makes camp cooking a
real pleasure instead of a hard job.
(oleman (am£ Stove
The “Coleman” has many new features that
will interest you.. Everything built-in—Hot-
Blast Generator that gives full cooking heat in
2 minutes; Swinging Fuel Tank; Built-in Pump,
Oven, Wind Baffles, and Warming Cabinet.
Cooks anything you want, any style. Fuel is
common motor gasoline. Folds up like a suit-
case. Come in and see it.
Lights and cooks in any wind. This Stove can be
lit anywhere—on a ship, on a pier, in a tent, in a
home, in a gale, in the rain. Full cooking heat
can be obtained in one minute. Coleman Camp
Stove bakes, roasts, fries, boils, toasts and grills.
Easy to set up, easy to start, easy to cook when-
ever you want and whatever you want.
THE COLEMAN STOVE IS COMPLETE IN ITSELF.
Quick Hot-Blast Starter —Full cooking heat in one minute—any time, any
place. Uses common motor gasoline as fuel.
Built-In Pump —Right in end of tank; no chance to get lost or damaged.
Tank Always Connected —Swings on swivel hinge—outside for cooking,
inside when stove is packed for carrying.
Built-In Wind Baffle and Warming Cabinet —Makes cooking easy in any
weather. Keeps the scones warm while you fry the eggs and boil the
coffee.
Built-In Oven and Drum Heater —Just the thing for baking or broiling.
Built-In Funnel —Combined with fuel intake and hand-operated filler plug.
“LIGHT, HEAT AND COOK THE COLEMAN WAY”
COLEMAN QUICK-LITE
CO. OF AUSTRALIA
185 William Street, Mel-
bourne, Cl, Victoria.
718 Harris Street, Ultimo,
Sydney, N.S.W.
31 Bower Building, Charles
Street, Adelaide, S.A.
Illustrating Stove with
set up.
oven


V
m
inruc ¥ i ¥
XI ¥ S Xlflodi
S.ON3
Aj *c ‘Kj ‘fottp/Cc ‘vc aSjoan ccc
“pn “°d <9 *mx jpi<>*t>H ywa^jL
•sduiDJS Ut p£ XoJ 33xJ JSOcf }U3£ % p9%UPtp 3APtj Sljqptf
pup sxauuvui /ttoq /Cpm axpDvxjjp pup Sutsnutp up ut
S/VLOifs 1J 'IZ6I °t 8981 utoxj XP3/C qoos xoJ 3uo —suoppxjs
-njjt ajqpjttutut s ( ipun£ 'xyi Jo iCjxts qooq p ojut pdjosjjoo
sxpif ‘"piq ou% "J f ‘ssjtqnf puotuptQ xtaqt sjpxqspo ojr
•
•UiajsAS DJOqM 3l|J uodn JD3JJ3 jEpgDuaq SJI
JO 3DE|d 3qj 3>|EJ UED SuiqjOU DJEUIip Siqj UJ
*papo]dx3 uaaq Buoj SEq noA joj pooS Dq ued
SIJES JBJ3UIUI 3AUESjnd JUESBDjdun A|UO JEqa
E3pi ‘ApuESEajd os qjOM sj; saop oug
*Buiavo|J'DDjj pus [ood
uiEDJjs-poojq 3qj sdDDq jj *9uip oj pus A|]nj
-pnp >|jom oj suoijduuj Aqpoq aqj jo jUEjaod
-un jsoui aqj sjdiuoad oug *Buiujoui Ajdas
Suii)j isjy „‘j|e S imaj,, s,ou 3 jo „qsep„ e
qjiA\ SuijqjEds ‘jdjeav jo ssbjS e jsn( *AqjjE9q
daag oj si ji Djduiis Avoq puy *qj|E9q jddj
'J3d qjIAV DUIOD AjUO UED ‘SuiAEjd JO SuigJOM
‘SUDUIOUI AJDAD JO JUDUIAofU3 UDD}J £ JS3Z
qjiA\ gsEj AjiEp aqj 05 pjEAvaoj qoof noA oq
dNHIHi XS39L
HfLOA
■4
as
IK
m.
€ r i
s*ei
w
For the Garage
“PRIMA”
PAINT
SPRAYER
ŵ
CELLULOSE
PAINT
OUTFIT.
For the Car-owner and Home.
PRIMA CO., LTD., Birmingham
Details from. Factory Representative,
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Melbourne.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
Away, sad moods!
Away, all stomach ills!
Enjoy good health
By taking
ẁ
ẃ
TWO AT NIGHT
PUT YOU RIGHT
Are you one of those who never
feel really well —always low-spirited,
nervous, languid, dyspeptic? That
is your sluggish liver. Be persuaded
to try Cockle’s Antibilious Pills. Get
a box to-day. Take two at bedtime
and see how amazingly bright and
well you feel to-morrow. Yout
system will be cleared of all surplus
bile and yo*ir liver will be in good
working order.
Small pill, easy to take. Of all
chemists and stores 1/6 a box.
JAMES COCKLE & CO., LTD., LONDON.
EVERY BLEMISH
REMOVED IN A FEW DAYS.
I will tell even / reader of this paper how
FREE.
YOUR COMPLEXION MAKES
OR MARS YOUR APPEARANCE.
Miss Grace Duncan, former actress, now offers to tell men
and women who are interested in the matter of the most
remarkable complexion treatment ever known. Stubborn
cases have been cured that baffled beauty-specialists for
'a
W
years. You have never in all your life used or heard of anything like it. Makes
muddy complexions, red spots, pimples, blackheads, freckles, eruptions vanish. No
cream, lotion, enamel, salve, plaster, bandage, mask, massage, diet or apparatus,
nothing to swallow. It doesn’t matter whether or not your complexion is a “fright,”
whether you face is full of muddy spots, peppery blackheads, embarrassing pimples
and eruptions, or whether your skin is rough and “porey,” and you’ve tried almost
everything under the sun to get rid of the blemishes. This treatment in just a few days
removes blemishes and beautifies your skin in a marvellous way. You look years
younger. It gives the skin the bloom and tint of purity of a freshly-blown rose. In a
short while you can be the subject of admiration by all your friends, no matter what
your age or condition of health. There is nothing to wear, nothing to take internally.
Your face, even arms, hands, shoulders, are beautiful beyond your fondest dreams.
All this Miss Duncan will absolutely prove to you within a few days. This treatment
is absolutely harmless to the most delicate skin and very pleasant to use. No change
in your mode of living necessary. A few minutes daily does it. To every reader of
this paper Miss Grace Duncan will give full details of this really astonishing treatment.
Let her show you. You risk nothing. Send three penny stamps for postage and your
name and address to Miss Duncan, who will give you full details by return mail.
MISS GRACE DUNCAN (Suit B 7), 195 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
MAGNAVCX
DYNAMIC
A- C-
/DEADER
i
SsJ
£13(15/-
As necessary as a power
tube. It gives not only
volume without diston*
tion but full and faithful
reproductions over the
full tonal range.
BEVERLY MODEL
For A.C £l3/15/-
For D.C. or Battery . . £ll
HEAR IT. ASK YOUR
RADIO DEALER.
Australian Model No. 7225.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J Rvan Esa •
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G. ’ ’
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.


Shoes that never
“pinch”
These Abbey shoes of pliant calf are
correct for width as well as length
—in all full and half sizes. You
easily obtain exact measure. And
they’re comfortable from the first
time on. The upper arches specially
at the lacing—to avoid tightness
over instep and the sides are low-
cut for neater fit and greater
freedom.
ORDER BY POST
But specify both width and length—
and ask, also, for a supply of quick-
shining Abbey Polish (6d. per tin).
BLACK VELOUR CALF,
421-
ABBEY
Established over 81 years
313 George Street, and 224 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
1,109.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested _by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins ... 4/6
1 quart tins . . 6/6
5/- each
7/- each
POST FREE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
c m
/r<
Pi
/>
y>
'j)
Cuticura Does Much
For Hair And Skin
For promoting and maintain-
ing beauty of skin and hair Cuti-
cura Soap and Ointment are
unexcelled. The Soap is pure and
cleansing, ideal for every-day use,
while the Ointment is soothing
and healing to irritations which,
if neglected, might become
serious.
Soap Is., Talcum 15.3 d., Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
*‘R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
THE WORLD’S LARGEST COMMERCIAL FORESTRY CO.
SUBSCRIBED SHARE CAPITAL £235,586
SUBSCRIBED BOND CAPITAL £2,750,000
BANKERS—THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND AND THEIR AGENTS.
SOLE BROKERS—SMITH, WYLIE AND 00., LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN BRANCHES AT MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE,
PERTH, HOBART AND NEWCASTLE.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCHES—AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH AND DUNEDIN;
AND AT 36-38 NEW BROAD STREET, LONDON, E.C.2 ; JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA ;
BOMBAY, INDIA; SINGAPORE; KUALA LUMPUR, FEDERATED MALAY STATES.
BF
38
The Martin Ditcher
Ditches, Terraces, Cleans and
Sweetens land at the smallest
cost. It does the work of 100
men and lasts a lifetime.
ẅ
<iiiiiiiiii!ii.,.uiu!iiim Ll Di'Hiiniiii«iiimii'i>
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney.
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Exton House, Queen Street, Brisbane.
T. & G. B’l’g, Light Square, Adelaide.
PAY AS YOU GO BY CHEQUE
WJf
1. It eliminates unwise spending.
2. It saves time and many steps in settling bills.
3. It gives prestige to your transactions.
4. It instils respect through your association with a reputable bank.
At this Bank you are allowed. Interest on. your
minimum quarterly balance.
< 9lp^primarg < proii urers
HEAD OFFICE. 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London
SOYA BEANS.
“W.P.D.”: “Penfield” (B. 19/12/’2B)
doesn’t exaggerate the usefulness of soya
beans. In Manchuria they are the chief
source of national wealth. They do well in
the coastal districts of tropical Q’land, and
even south of this, and should give , good
crops wherever maize is successfully culti-
vated. I have seen splendid crops of
the beans in the neighborhood of Townsville
and the Burdekin delta, where their value
has been found greater than that of cowpea
for all-round purposes. On good soil the
bean is a rapid grower and a good cropper.
It is valuable as a green manure, as it sup-
plies nitrogen to the soil.
The beans, ground, are rich in oil and
other flesh-forming constituents. The oil,
for which there are numerous uses, can be
extracted with profit. The fodder, green or
as hay, is palatable to stock of all kinds,
and is very nutritious. Why the plant has
not become more popular in Queensland I do
not know, but farmers who have tried it and
have used care in its cultivation have been
satisfied of its value. It is not more diffi-
cult to grow than maize or cowpea, and
returns should be better than from most other
farming crops.
Unlike cowpea, the soya bean ripens all
its seed about the same time, and is thus
easier to harvest. The best varieties take
about four months to reach the hay or
fodder stage, and about a month longer to
ripen the seed. Seed should be sown about
the same time as maize, or a. little later.
Growth at first is rather slow, but as soon
as the plants are established it is rapid.
Sow not deeper than 2in. to Sin. in rows
about 2ft. 6in. to 3ft. apart, and the seed,
4in to 6in. apart in the rows. From 51b.
to 121 b. of seed, according to size of seed
is required per acre. Sow with maize drill
with a special plate, or with a wheat drill,
by blocking up all but a few of the tubes.
Ootootan is perhaps the best dual purpose
variety for seed and hay.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(l) Name and address of department deal-
ing with perpetual lease selections in
Queensland? (2) What qualifications and
finance are demanded of intending selector
who is after, say, a 100-acre block valued
at £350? (3) Must the selector pay value
of improvements in cash? —8313.
(1) The Dept, of Public Lands, Brisbane.
(2) In ordinary cases, the department does
not make inquiries regarding an applicant’s
qualifications and financial status. In the
matter of the Upper Burnett and Callide
Valley scheme there is a fairly large area
available for selection under perpetual lease
by landless applicants ; to be approved, a man
must satisfy the department that, in addition
to farming experience, he has sufficient to
tide him over the initial stages. (3) A
successful applicant for land on which there
are improvements must pay the value of
improvements as by law determined within
21 days after notice has been given to him.
Would it be worth while approaching
some of our woolbroking firms for help in
purchasing a Queensland station with up to
5000 sheep? I have been managing stations
for 10 years, doing all my own book-keeping.
I have about £l2OO in cash and an endow-
ment policy expiring in a few years, worth
about £750. —8324.
A good property with about 5000 sheep
would, according to location, improvements,
quality of sheep and of wool, range in value
from £15,000 to £20,000. Unless very liberal
terms of payment were conceded by the ven-
dor, a purchaser would require to possess at
least £lO,OOO capital to enable him to finance
the transaction. With the capital at your com-
mand, you might, however, be able to pur-
chase a managing partnership interest in a
small sheep property. You could also lodge
applications to select Crown land in Queens-
land, provided you could get a financial
backer of sufficient strength and reputation
to satisfy the requirements of the Land
Administration Board.
(1) Treatment for scaly legs in fowls?
(2) How long should one wait before set-
ting eggs after shutting up hens with roost-
ters? (3) Best age to market Rhode Island
red cockerels? (4) Best age to market
Muscovy drakes? (5) Where can colored
split-rings for poultry be obtained? —B24B.
(1) Taint legs and perches with crude
petroleum or blue oil —also called wood-pre-
serving oil. Make sure that the oil does not
contain arsenic, which would burn the legs.
Several applications may be necessary in
bad cases, at intervals of a month. (2)
About a week. (3) Depends upon the time
of the year. Up to September birds 10 to
12 weeks will bring good prices. (4) Be-
tween 13 and 16 weeks old. (5) Anthony
Horderns’, Sydney.
(1) Is it possible to feed, say, 100 head of
pigs on stuff (no milk) grown entirely on
the farm? (2) How much land would it be
necessary to cultivate in order to feed one
pig per year? (3) What variety of crops
would provide a suitable balanced and fat-
tening ration? (4) How much drinking-
water does a pig require daily? (5) What
area would be necessary to give the animals
free range? (6) For what length of time
should sows and their young be kept separ-
ated from the rest? (7) Should boars be
allowed to run freely with the herd? —B294.
(1) Yes; if it is good agricultural land
with fair rainfall or other water supply.
(2) Provided land and water supply are
right, from i-aere upwards. If any outside
grain or offal is fed the area will decrease.
(3) No one crop is a fully-balanced fattening
ration by itself; probably lucerne would most
nearly fill this reouirement. Maize, sorghum,
millet, peas, soya beans, clovers, rape,
potatoes, sweet potatoes, artichokes, man-
golds, turnips, pumpkins, marrow, squashes,
melons, wheat, barley, oats and good pas-
tures—all these supply useful food. In
feeding any of these crops in their green
st te an addition of a certain amount of
grain, bran, pollard or meat meal mixture
will be required to obtain the best fattening
results. (4) A plentiful supply of clean
water should be always available. The quan-
tity required will vary according to the feed
and the weather. A standard of 121 b. of
water for a pig weighing 1001 b. is suggested.
As the pig gets older and heavier there is a
gradual decrease in the amount of water re-
quired per 1001 b. of weight. (5) For up-
wards of 100 pigs one to five acres could
be used, but it is a much better proposition
to divide the pigs into classes according to
age and size and keep them in smaller areas;
unless, of course, they are depending
primarily on grazing for their food, when
the area will depend on the crop or pasture.
(6) Until the young are weaned, seven to
eight weeks at least. All weaners of approxi-
mately the same age should be kept together
and fed separately from the larger pigs. (7)
It is a mistake to allow the boar to roam
at will with the breeding sows. He should
have a good dry pen and a fair run for exor-
cise and have the sows put with him when
required. It is suggested that you obtain
“Pigs and Their Management,” by H. W.
Potts (12s. Gd.i, from Angus and Robertson,
Sydney.
Capital required to start a poultry farm,
500 or 1000 birds, in Q’land, exclusive of
cost of land? Area necessary, and jn-obable
maintenance cost while birds are coming
into the production stage? When should
such stage x be reached? What profits may
be reasonably expected? —B3Bs.
Under Queensland conditions it requires
at least £35 to house each 100 birds under
the intensive system, exclusive of land. It is
desirable to have free range for the pullets,
and for flocks of 500 to 1000 head five
to ten acres would be desirable. Cost of
keeping poultry whilst coming into produc-
tion varies considerably. Each bird, how-
ever, before starting to lay would consume
at least 28 pounds of bran, pollard and
grain; from these figures you could estimate
the cost of maintenance at current prices.
Development takes on an average five to six
months. The profits which might be ex-
pected naturally vary. Cost of production
and the price at which the product can be
disposed of are the governing factors, and
it is impossible to give an idea of the pro-
fits per bird until these two points are
definitely known.
Would it be icorth while trying a few
acres of linseed? —8341 a.
You won’t get much encouragement from
the agricultural departments,- whose experi-
ments have brought little success. This is not
easily understandable, however, ih view of
the fact that Argentina will this season ex-
port over two million tons. Meggitt’s, Dtd.,
20 King-street, Sydney, are very keen to
encourage the industry in Australia, and
will give you information about it. Also see
par. on “Linseed,” by “Wrecksby,” this issue
of The Bulletin.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Con Creet”: A Parramatta (N.S.W.)
poultry-farmer who suffered ravages from
foxes was told to try the dodge of walking
round the farm each night, as a fox won’t
cross fresh human tracks. Now each even-
ing he or his son does a constitutional round
the block, and the losses are a thing of the
past.
“Bushman” : A fair quantity of fruit goes
to waste in the flush season on most farms.
Figs, pears, apples, plums, apricots and
peaches can be dried without any elaborate
equipment. A few light trays should be made
with slats or netting, and the fruit opened—
halved, quartered or sliced —and placed on
the trays to be dried in the sun. The only
care needed is to turn them till quite dry,
taking the trays in at night or in case of
rain, and in keeping ants away. When suffi-
ciently dry to store, put the fruit in air-tight
tins or screw-top bottles, and you’ll have a
supply for winter use. Plums are best
dipped in a solution of soda lye, and dried
with the stones in. All other lines can have
cores or stones taken out. Be sure the con-
tainers are air-tight or weevils will spoil the
lot.
“Wrash”: Where the paddocks are strewn
with surface stones much improvement and
grass increase can be effected in spare time
by removing those that are lying loose. Load
the gibbers into a tipdray and spill them
into the lower end of the nearest gutter.
There they will hold the debris and silt that
sweeps down with every rainfall, and gradu-
ally the washaway will be levelled up again
to become a grass-growing patch, instead of
the former long stretch of unsightly bare
banks. Stones, too, when emptied in suffi-
cient quantity into a shaking bog, will con-
vert the quagmire into sound country from
which somewhere a spring of water eventu-
ally will spurt.
“Valerin”: Now when tanks are getting
low it is a good idea to clean away the
silt from the edge of the water with a
small quarter-yard scoop. The silt should
be taken over the embankment instead of
being left, as is mostly done, on the batter
of the tank. If the silt is taken away sheep
have easy access to the water, and there is
no risk of the weaker onesl getting bogged
in the mud.
“Bill R.”: When work is slack on the
farm fill in time collecting the bones of dead
horses and cattle that are strewn about the
paddocks. Leave the shin-bones whole, but
crack up the others into convenient sizes
for bagging. Any hide merchant will lay
you on to a ready market for them, and they
will return you up to £5 per ton.
“Bosso”: Some stockowners _ who would
groan over an ingrowing toenail are quite
callous at the sight of cattle and sheep
with ingrowing horns. Too often one sees
at saleyards a beast whose horn has grown
into its eye; or a wether with an inch of horn
growing into its cheek. Stock inspectors
should be instructed to prosecute the men
who permit an animal to suffer such torture
rather than do a little work with a saw.
“Nalla”: Here’s the recipe for a cheap and
effective ointment for all superficial cuts,
scratches, sores and hurts, and especially
for sore or injured teats. I smiled when
I first heard of it, and so may you, but
give it a trial, and your smile will be one of
satisfaction. Get a quantity of the best
lard the butcher can give you, and some
onions. Put the lard in a pot on the fire,
and while it is coming to the boil cut the
onions very finely, or pulp them. Mix
the onions with the lard slowly, and keep
stirring until the concoction has a very
strong smell of onions. Strain through a
clean cloth into suitable receptacles, and
when required rub it in. The odor of the
onions keeps flies and their infection away,
but I can’t account for the undoubted cura-
itve properties of the quaint mixture.


Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Englishman (40), public-school education,
20 years business experience, smart at
figures, can speak French and type, wants
position anywhere.—8420.
Two young lads (19 and 20) would like
any sort of position in the Islands. Used
to farm work; can drive cars. —8428.
Man, experienced supervising gangs of
men, is willing to invest £250, with services,
in any sound partnership.—8400.
Married man (29) wants position as
station overseer, or will take charge of small
property. Lifelong experience sheep and
cattle. —8398.
Young man (23), Vic. ; requires job on
farm anywhere. Experienced in tractor
driving and general farming.—8259.
Educated young man (21), station and
agriculture experience, wants position as
jackeroa on sheep station, willing go any-
where.—8265.
Motor and windmill expert wants job on
station, S.-W. Queensland or southern States,
competent turner and fitter, can handle forge
work, has steam ticket. —8346.
Young man (24), good education, requires
job on N.S.W. sheep station, experienced;
has own dog, handy with tools and cars. —
8365.
Shift bosses wanted for second and third
shifts by North Queensland woolscouring
company.—8501.
Working partner, with small capital pre-
ferred, wanted by lessee Western Queensland
property, 20 acres, 3 acres under fruit-trees,
vines and vegetables.' Three miles good
market. —8496.
Lady (22), Sydney, would like to corres-
pond with Bulletin readers, opposite sex. —
8443.
Pharmaceutical chemist (Tasmanian),
young, good knowledge wholesale and retail,
wants position as manager.—8448.
Returned soldier, married, wants steady
job in N.S.W.; used to station work, know-
ledge of windmills, cars, axeman ; station or
timber area near coast preferred.—8444.
Youth, honest, good worker, 12 months’
experience, requires job sheep station, can
drive any car; fair rider.—8478.
Youth (20), born in N.S.W. dairying dis-
trict and used to industry since childhood,
knowledge book-keeping, car-driving and re-
pairs, wants job in Q’land. —8375.
To hear from parents wishing to place
strong lad, 14 to 16, on a mixed farm,
Centra] Queensland. Dairying by machines.
—8476.
Young man (21), good health and educa-
tion seeks position in Islands. Knowledge
station and farm work, store-keeping; can
drive and do running repairs on cars.—8354.
To buy Vols. 2 and 3 “New Grub Street,’’
by Gissing; also to buy or borrow “The
First Round” (St. John Lucas). “The
Ghost Ship” (R. Middleton) and “How to
Make a Wimshurst Machine.” (To Thos.
J. Lawlor, 545 George-street, Sydney.)
To buy,' secondhand, saw spindle, 6ft. to 8ft.
long, 2in. to 2^in. diameter; two bench
rollers, 4in. to 6in. diameter; and circular
saw, 3ft. to 4ft. 6in. diameter. —8416.
To buy McAlister’s “Old Pioneering Days
in the Sunny South.” (To H. V. Edwards,
Old Rectory, Bega, N.S.W.)
To buy copy of book by O. Henry, contain-
ing story about an Italian who made his
final exit in a boot trunk.—8216.
To exchange large number of new and fairly
new jazz songs for others. (To Iv. C.
Brodribb, Gladstone-road, S. Brisbane.)
Words of comic song, containing the lines
“Take my advice, don’t try it twice.”—8405.
Directions (with diagrams where neces-
sary) for making serviceable articles from
laths, kerosene cases and tins. (To F.
Coss, 53 Rookwood-st., Mt. Lawley, W.A.)
Whereabouts of Hugh Hutchinson, for-
merly of H.M.S. Marmion. (To Robert
Buckan, Weenya, Gulargambone, N.S.W.)
Whereabouts of station-hand called Charlie
(surname unknown), who last year helped
a sick shearer named Whomaine, now de-
ceased. (To C. Whomaine, Lonely Dell,
Great Western, Yic.)
Information Sought.
Name of book, not too technical, dealing
with the electrical equipment of a car fitted
with the Lucas ignition system? I already
have a motor instruction book. —8386.
“The Magneto,” one of Cassell’s publica-
tions, and “Electrical Equipment of Auto-
mobiles,” by S. Parker Smith; you can get
either from the N.S.W. Bookstall Co.; the
two cost 8s. 6d. post free. These books do
not deal specifically with the Lucas system,
but they will, with the instruction book you
already possess, enable you to become con-
versant with the subject.
(1) Where could I buy a book dealing
with washing for gold in streams or river
beds, and written for the benefit of novices?
(2) How are gold nuggets or grains recog-
nisable from gravel and stones in the pan
or cradle bottom? Is there any chemical
test? —8295.
(1) Try Angus and Robertson or
Dymock’s, Sydney. “The Prospector’s Hand-
book,” by J. W. Anderson, London, 1886,
would do; secondhand copies available from
3s. 6d., or new ones at 7s. 6d. A few practi-
cal lessons from an experienced prospector
are advised. (2) By their weight compared
with that of other material panned off. Also
gold presents the same color from whatever
direction it is looked at, and is malleable. A
chemical test is inadvisable without practical
experience.
Four years ago j gave a man „ promis .
sory nO * C) w hich he discounted. It has never
been presented for payment or noted for non-
payment. Can the present holder sue met—
-8369.
The p.n. should have been presented on
its due date; if dishonored, notice should
have been given to you. If it wasn’t pre-
sented on the due date the holder cannot
sue on it, but if the debt for which it was
given was incurred within six years past he
cun sue ° n tho debt.
Quantity of materials required for making
a cqncrete floor 10 ft. by 10 ft.? —8404.
The floor should be 4in. thick and made of
concrete consisting of 1 part cement to 2
Parts sand arid 4 Parts of broken stone or
Material required will then be 7i
P a P ei 6ags of cement, l.» cub. it. ot sand ad
cub ’ ° broken stone or gia\e.
7Vie best artificial manure to use with
Bu £ an 9™ ss (Trowing on light soil?- 8269
Superphosphate is recommended—Jcwt.
per . acie ;
A rtver rum through my grazing
Property. Arc picnickers allowed to light
fi™s “long and fish tn this particular part
°J the river without my consent? If so are
they allowed to use u fishing-net? —B3.2o.
If the fires are lit on your property
an( j the fishing is done on that property the
men aro trespassers. Your consent is neces-
sary. The soil of one half of a river to the
middle of the stream is, in law, presumed
to belong to the owner of the adjoining land,
T 177 , «/> „ >» i * <?/
Y'Jl <OCS •4 ‘. ra<^ccn start on p j • /
then switch over to page 57? Ihe
same kind of thing occurs in the Mirror
every week and in many other publications.
8466
rp 0 i m p rove the paper’s appearance. You
don’t find all the ploughs in Anthony Hor-
derns’ stock at the front door, then all the
trousers, then all the jams, and behind them
all the blankets. They contrive to push
samples of as many lines as possible to-
wards the front. The Bulletin doesn’t do
much of it; it wishes it could do more. It
does file next-best thing by printing in the
front a. list of “Principal Contents of this
Issue.”
Method of making- a gravel and clay
tennis court? Is oil used? —B44s.
Put the clay down, roll and water well,
then spread the gravel on top. Then roll
and water again, making a hard compact
surface. Oil should not, be used.
/ wish to prospect for gold, and sih>er on
freehold property in Queensland. What is
the correct way to go about getting a claim,
and what would I have to pay in rent, etc.?
—B3IB.
Apply to the nearest Warden for a permit
f® e L r^ e] ; freehold for the purposes of
*4 ie Mrmug Act; the permit will allow you to
a ‘ ark ° ut a leas e °r claim As for rental,
aiea - etc., procure a copy of the regulations
or communicate with the Waiden, Gympie,
wl ° Wld Rlve y° u every assistance.
. ir p a t floors with creosote which,
*» addition to providing a good stain, will
Protect them from white ants. 8387.
c / ude caabtai ; creosote 01 to which
sufficient burnt Turkey umber (ground m
linseed oil) has been added until the de-
rod color is obtained. Only one appli-
cation is necessary, but after about four
wee ks the floor should be waxed,
T ANARUS„, , ,
7 W } e ™ I can su // hes 7 . of
Queensland timbers suitable for rod-making ,
am j prices? (2) Names and addresses of
Queensland rod-makers?— B34l.
From the officer-in-charge, Queensland
Forestry Dept, showrooms, William-street,
Brisbane. Charges are: Is. 9d. per piece of
2 lengths (§in. by |in. by 3ft., and 3in* by
Jin. by 3ft.), all timbers. Butts: Figured
tulip plum, 25.; plain white ash, Is.; all
other suitable timbers, Is. Ten p.c. dis-
count is allowed for wholesale purchases,
(2) Queensland Forestry Dept, can supply
finished rods. T. A. _ Miers, c/o Jas. Camp-
bell
E - Johnson, Dalsers, Chernside-road, East
3rC tW ° Well - knOWD private r ° d ‘
maKers-
(l) When does cane-cutting commence in
Queensland, and what is the length of the
season? (2) Is it hard for an inexperienced
worker to get a job? (3) Beginners’ wages?
—8270.
(1) The season usually begins about the first
week in June and continues until the end
of the year. (2) The sugar workers’ award
gives first preference of employment to those
who commenced the previous season and com-
pleted their contract, and second preference to
those who commenced the current season and
completed their contract; so it is hard for an
inexperienced man to get placed. Very little
work is done on a wages basis; the award
provides for contract cutting according to
cuttage per acre. (3) The amount earned by
workers varies according to the district in
which they are working and, of course, de-
pends largely on the season. Last season
(which was about an average) the wages of
cutters laried from £1 to £3 per day, the
°^ e *\ ben 'A ? aid , n L southern parts
l 1"/, ‘ n *, be Cairns and Inm ®'
f ai , , and f tncts > where the cr °P s are much
heavier.
(1) How can I become apprenticed to the
Mercantile Marine as a deck-boy? (2) Any
other way of becoming a seaman? (3) Any
entrance epam.? (4) Cost of premium and
commencing wages?— 7Boß._
(1) Apply to the Shipping Office, Dawes
Point. Sydney; the Deputy-Superintendent
may know of a vessel requiring a deck-boy.
(2) By joining the Navy you would receive
first-rate training as a naval seaman. (?)
No (4) The premium is nominally ±tw,
but often it is not enforced. Deck-hands
usually get £3 10s. per month to commence.
How to remove ink-stains and axle grease
from tussore silk coat? —8326. .
For ink. soak in cold water a few minutes,
stretch over a basin and rub with oxalic
acid or Javelle water. For axle grease,
squeeze the parts in benzine or kerosene
and wash in hot soapy water. hor botn
stains, rinse in water containing ammonia
after treatment.
A cure for mange in a dog? —B3o3.
The following treatment is recommended—
whether it will effect a cure depends on the
condition of the animal and the state of the
skin. Wash the dog with soap and water;
dry thoroughly; then rub in a lotion con-
sisting of 4oz. Hack sulphur, 4oz. oil of tar
and 8 ounces fish oil. Leave on for 3 days,
then wash off, dry and reapply. If any
raw patches are observed afterwards, dust
with iodoform 1 part and boracic acid 6
parts. Attend to condition of bowels and give
laxative food.
Mtf Australian terrier, aged six months,
shows no interest in rat killing, for which
purpose 1 bought him. How can l train him
for the job? —B2o4.
Being an Australian terrier he may be
too young at six months. A taste for ratting
may develop as he grows older. Of course,
the instinct must be present or he will never
be a ratter. I’lace him with another dog,
a good ratter. After he has watched the
performances of the expert, lie may want to
emulate them.
(1) Are British cars of 9 to 11 h.p. suit-
able for country work in Australia? '-)
Are British cars selling well in Australia?
(3) What British car (tourer) do you recom-
mend for country conditions? —8319.
(1) Speaking generally, yes. Australia
hasn’t had experience of all the British
makes, but those well established on this
market have proved sturdy and reliable. (2)
Yes, and sales are improving. (3) Depends
on your requirements. Drop a line to J. S.
Strong, 16 Barrack-street, Sydney, who repre-
sents British motor-manufacturers in this
market and is well qualified to give you
advice.
(1) Do the Australian States manufacture
equipment for their railways including loco-
motives, or do they only assemble imported
parts? (2) What are the main reasons why
Australia does not manufacture motor-cars?
(3) Are there appliances for case hardening,
say a crank shaft, in Australia? —8407.
(1) Every sort of rolling stock can be
manufactured throughout in Australian work-
shops, and a very large proportion of rolling-
stock on the rails in this country is Aus-
tralian-made. (2) Hitherto, principally the
lack of a sufficiently large domestic market
to warrant the setting-up of plant. Every
part of the car save the motor can be., and is,
manufactured in Australia, and most motor
parts are made (for replacement). Several
Australian firms make marine motors, and
have the equipment to make car-motors. It
is understood that a group of N.S.W. manu-
facturers is preparing to manufacture com-
plete cars. (3) Yes.
What qualifications are necessary for a
position as plantation assistant or overseer in
the Solomons, and where to apply? —B4o3.
Youth (20-30 years) ; robust constitution;
farming experience, both stock and agricul-
ture ; rough carpentry and a knowledge of
motor traction and boatbuilding. The most
likely companies to apply to are: Lever’s
Pacific Plantations, W. R. Carpenter and
Cos., and Burns, Philp—all of Sydney.
How to remove stain and varnish from
Oregon three-ply walls? —8380.
For casual stains, scrape with a knife and
rub with a solution of oxalic afcid and water,
half of each. If the walls have been treated
with stain and varnish, it is practically
impossible to remove completely. Varnish
may be taken off with a blow-lamp, but the
stain will have sunk into the wood and
cannot be moved. Can be satisfactorily
painted. i
A method of corning beef and pork with-
out the use of a brine pump? —B36l.
Mix together 41b. brown sugar, lib. salt,
3oz. saltpetre, 6oz. bay salt, 1 teaspoon
pepper and a little allspice. Lay joints of
meat on a wooden table or in enamel tub,
and rub in the mixture well for a week,
turning every day, and inserting the pickle
in the thick parts through deep narrow cuts.
Or take 61b. salt, 21b. sugar, 3gal. water,
3oz. saltpetre. Boil for 30min., and place
the meat in it for a fortnight for large
joints ; less time for small ones.
I bought shares in Australian Mortgages,
Ltd. Shares were paid to 10s. and it was said-
no more calls would be wanted. Nevertheless
three calls have been made. What is the
position? —B2s4.
The co. lent money on second mortgage
to Greater Sydney Estates on security of
vacant land, near Narrabeen, bought for
subdivision. Greater Sydney Estates having
gone into liquidation, the first mortgagee
proposed to take possession of property. In
order to save itself, Australian Mortgages,
Ltd., as the second mortgagee, has to buy
the property (price, understood to be
£18,000), and in order to do this has been
forced to fiiake three calls of Is. each. The
first board of directors has disappeared and
anew board is now making an effort to save
the co. from wreck.
I propose to put down a gravel yard
where docks and sorrel now predominate.
Any method of killing the weeds other than
by rooting them out? —B36B.
They may be destroyed by treating with
arsenate of soda, lib. to 4gal. water, or by
spraying with a brine solution.
Date on which the first taxi-cab appeared
in Sydney; also make of car, owner’s name,
and tariff? —8087.
Owing to the destruction of old Sydney
Traffic Dept, records, it is impossible to
give the exact date. The first taxi-cabs were
licensed somewhere about the end of 1907.
There were six two-cylinder Renault
vehicles, and they were placed on the streets
by Turner Bros., then trading as the General
Motor Cos.; the fare charged was Is. per
mile. The first big fleet was owned by the
Australasian Motor Cab Cos., which had
premises in William-street. It was formed in
1909 and wound up in 1918. No-divs. were
ever paid.
Does it cost less to insure a ship fitted
with wireless telegraphy than a vessel of the
same class without wireless? —B394
Wireless does not come into the matter.
W hen a craft is insured the premium is
determined according to the vessel’s classi-
fication, age and trade.
Brief Answers.
Frank J. H.: (1) and (2) You’ll have to
be either lucky or an expert to make much out of
dealing in house property, especially jf you have
to borrow. You can’t be half as sure of your rent
as you can of your bill for interest. There are no
7 per cents.; you’ll probably do best in the long
run with your own State’s bonds. (3) Not if safety
is important Mutooroo: If it’s a gamble you
want, very well; but you shouldn’t regard it as an
investment. And when you have paid for it, lock
it up and forget all about it. In that respect,
the whole group are the same... .F.F.: Data will
take a good deal of getting; so there may be some
delay.... J.R.C.: N.S.W. Government Tourist Bureau,
Challis House, Martin-place, Sydney, can supply you
with a list... .P.J.: Try the Moreland Metal Cos.,
3 Market-street, Sydney... .W.J.: It looks like a
case of canker of the ears. Keep the ears as dry
as possible; cleanse with pure peroxide of hydrogen,
dry, and afterwards swab with a nitrate of silver
solution, three grains to the ounce... .W.H.W.: D.
Mitchell and Cos., 153 Clarence-street, Sydney;
Cadbury-Pry-Pascall Pty,, 212 York-street, Sydney.
. ...R.S.: Don’t know a literary agent who would
market short stories for you. With the aid of “The
Aus. and N.Z. Writers’ and Artists’ Year Book’’
you should be able to do it yourself... .L.P.: The
only way is by applying to the agents for the boats.
. ...A.R.: Cannot trace Vie. agents; N.S.W.
agents are Collins Motors, 65 William-street, Sydney.
.. .. W. 8.5.: See reply to No. 8320... .N.P.: Suggest
you read them according to their chronological
order of publication. .. .J.N.: (1) The N.Z. Tablet
Cos., Filleul-street, Dunedin, published a book of
Eileen Duggan’s poems in 1920. (2) It should be
obtainable from any leading bookseller; cost, 2s.
6d. Gordon and Gotch are the wholesale distribu-
tors... .E.M.L.; See reply to similar question this
issue... .M.H.: Write to the secretary, Air Board,
Defence Department, Melbourne, for R.A.A.F. publi-
cation No. 1 (“How to Join the R.A.A.F.”)....
N. : (1) They are cockchafer beetles. Spray with
arsenate of lead, lib. of paste in 20 gallons of
water. (2) Forward specimen of the apples to
Horticultural Superintendent, Dept, of Agriculture,
Flinders-street Extension, Melbourne... .M.M.L.:
There is an award for laboratory assistants at Sydney
Uni., but none for other laboratory assistants
J.K.0.: Rates of pay for fiarmen: Sydney metropoli-
tan area, £4 14s. 6d. per week; country, £4 Bs.
... ..M.Y.: Impossible to give an opinion on a
violin from a label or stamp. The only way is to
submit it to an expert such as A. E. Smith, 68
Hunter-street, Sydney, for examination. Stainer,
like many other early makers, has been extensively
copied. .. .J.G.: Nothing known here for or against
it; it is advertised by a reputable firm... .Tallering:
There are a lot of risks about it; another disadvan-
tage is that there is not a free market for the
security in case of a forced sale... .Talisman: First,
Perkins got 160,000 Castlemaine shares; then 190,000
were to be issued to shareholders who might be on
the Castlemaine books over a month later. Plainly
this interval was to allow Perkins shareholders to
get on the books and join in the issue. So you
are entitled to 25. . . .H.E.S.: (1) Only the local
bodies responsible for the erection of such gates
can supply the information. Bega (N.S.W.) has
a fine example of wrought-iron memorial gates; the
Municipal Council might be worth trying. (2) F.
Broadhurst and Son, 61 Garnet-street, Dulwich Hill;
G. E. Crane and Sons, Ltd., 33-35 Pitt-street, Sydney;
•Seruttons, Ltd., Mary Ann-street, Ultimo; Brown
and Brown, Ltd., Pyrmont... .M.D.: You cannot
mortgage the property until it becomes yours. A
moneylender might be found prepared to buy your
reversionary interest, but that should be a. last
resource... .A.H.M.: Assuming the bail to have been
considerably more than £lO, your friend escaped
lightly. As it was, the police, instead of applying
to have it estreated, in which case the full amount
would have had to be paid, brought the man back
to answer the charge at your friend’s expense and
made no application for estreatment. The strictly
legal course would have been to estreat the bail.
.....1.R.: Squire’s “Companion to the British Phar-
macopoeia” gives their densities as: Alcohol absolute,
O. ; petrol, 0.716; kerosene, 0.840; and castor
oil, 0.965 to 0.968. These figures are taken in
relation to water... .C.H.K.; Buitisii Chess Maga-
zine, 15 Elmwood-lane, Leeds (12s. per annum,
monthly) ; American Chess Bulletin, 150 Nassau-
street, New York (three dollars per annum)....
G.E.: Unless there was a mutual agreement as to
the value, it would be a tie... .F.H.D.: (1) Some
fanciers hold that males are slightly larger in the
head. (2) Mr. S. W. Jackson, Belltrees, Scone,
N.S.W., who has done much tree-climbing, would
advise you. (3) Black-tailed and mallee parrots
are protected; maximum penalty, £lO per bird....
Kiwi: See reply to No. 8341... .G. 8.: Don’t know
of anyone who professes to teach the ’cello by
correspondence, and don’t think that sort of instruc-
tion would be satisfactory.... E.M.8.: (1) Presum-
ably you refer to McCourtie’s “Where and How to
Sell Manuscripts,” procurable from Home Corres-
pondence School, Box 201, P. 0., Haymarket, Sydney;
price about 16s. It is an American publication
on similar lines to the “Writers’ and Artists’ Year
Book.” (2) Depends w’hicb branch of the depart-
ment you wish to enter. Write Commonwealth Public
Service Inspector, Queen-street, Brisbane... .Leg:
Each country has its own law with regard to foreign
marriages by its subjects. The broad principle
appears to be that for such marriages to be valid
both in the home country and the foreign country,
they must in certain respects conform with the
legal requirements in each. Where any doubt exists
inquiry should be made at the Consular Office of
the foreign country.... S.S.: Leading fishing-tackle
houses in Sydney have never heard of apparatus for
casting lines into the sea... . J.K.E.: (1) Yes. (2)
Rest home for poor children. (3) Yes.... J.R.0.:
Your best plan would be to apply to the offices
of oversea shipping companies; duties would be the
duties of a seagoing steward —too numerous to give
in detail... .E.S.: The essential treatment is fre-
quent washing of the scalp. Use soap spirit and
then wash the soap spirit out thoroughly with two
or three fresh washings. If this doesn’t clear it,
let us know.... J.0.G.: You will find some difficulty
in working your passage, seeing that you have no
nautical experience. Try shipping offices and Deputy
Superintendent of Shipping, Dawes Point, Sydney.
T.H.: (1) No age limit. Usual age 16 to 17
years. (2) See reply to 7808... .A.G.C.: (1) and
(4) See reply to 7808. (2) Second-officer, about
£23 per month; first officer, about £23 per month.
. ...R.C.: The Bulletin never recommended that
venture. Don’t believe what share-sellers tell you
—ask to see the original newspaper.... (Many others
mailed.)


fwtfxd it
i ; i l I
There's a
big responsibility
attached to your coaster hub.
It must give smooth, effortless
running, and it must pull you up
the moment you press your foot
back there must be no uncer-
tainty and no risk.
The B.W. Coaster Hub amply
fulfils these conditions. Its
perfectly
dustproof shell
ensures sweet running, its
wide braking surface means
perfect safety.
It is a product of Bayliss, Wiley
& Co. Ltd., Birmingham, England
represented in Australia by
JOHN - ARNOLD (De Graves
Street, Melbourne).
CLP..©. Box 71.
DISTRIBUTORS:
Melbourne: Acme Cycle Co.
Sydney: Williams, Dredge and
Hay don. Ltd.
Brisbane: J. H. Cowley & Co.,
Ltd.
Perth: Atkins (W.A.), Ltd.
New Zealand —
Adams, Ltd.
Hope Gibbons, Ltd.
E. Reynolds & Co., Ltd.
»^£S jp?
h
BW
Q
Smooth running Time
The name Elgin typifies the pinnacle of
achievement in the world of watches. Elgin
watches are renowned alike for their rich,
lustrous finish and fidelity of workmanship,
which ensures Elgin smooth - running time.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
<§>lgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELECANCE AND EFFICIENCY
/%/> Jrade Mark
ŵ
in the Watch (are
103
ẁ
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
ẃ
V —-
v
r
's' t. r
£SS"
s
9JB
V 1
£S
r
Cl
=$?«R
m
@S
P*
\
i
K
I
sfiSi
S
WEED
Tyre Chains
are especially essential to the
economical and safe opera-
tion of buses, trucks and all
heavy duty vehicles to which
positive traction is so impor-
tant.
They are made in sizes to
fit all tyres, whether pneu-
matic or solid, single or dual.
They bite right through mud,
sand and clay—they grip and
hold .
Order from your dealer
AMERICAN CHAIN CO.
New York, N. Y., U.S. A.
Standard of quality for over
a quarter of a century
WEED TYRE CHAINS
4038
Sk.
■m
y
m
W/A
W////M
V/A.
W/A
W/W/W
/W"'-
:W
WHATEVER may be your holi-i
day mood ... fishing; game |
hunting; alpine climbing
| sight seeing .. .'you will be enthralled
|by a change amid New Zealand s be-
| witching surroundings, a memorable
holiday at unexpectedly low cost.
Let us send you free literature and
details of fares. Use the coupon!
, tea
-^■ ls ctV>° u
P eta 1
>ia^ e • ' ...
eSS * ' • ••'""
u P lc “ se '
-1
WWsvEx'tf
NEW ZEALAND
GOV’T OFFICES
London Bank Chambers,
20 Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
59 William Street,
MELBOURNE.


m
■i r :
mm
••* _
u
''"""«■■■■* tA.dc-.. "
'■ ■--vi'-i- •• :., -f '••:•
» , -x
TUE- PERFECT
IVORY TIP
(XPRpSS
333
20 for 1/6
ATOATH TOBACCO
Cat-TO, U3NDQN.
SMPKE-OH!
THE THINK THAT MATTERS.
“What do you really think of old Fastgiltte,
Girlie?”
“What’s it matter what I think of him so
long as he doesn’t think I think it?”
TRUTH IN ADVERTISING.
FOR QUICK SALE. £2OO. Genuine
lOU car —1923 engine; 1925 body. This
car has dented mudguards, hole in back,
perished hood, and considerable area of
missing paint-work. The tyres are completely
worn out. The mileage shown on the speedo.
is 5000, but this has been achieved by
checking registration on a wholesale, scale.
The actual mileage is probably nearer 30,000.
The engine is in thoroughly bad order, new
gears are needed, and the dynamo is the
world’s worst. The car, during the whole of
its working life, has been in the hands of a
notoriously careless and incompetent driver,
whose license was recently suspended for
drunkenness.
FOR SALE or TO LET. “Le Nooke.”
An unusually ugly BUNGALOW, in suburb
as hideous and pretentious as itself. Bad
TRAIN SERVICE, and a 15 minutes’ walk
over chaotic road from Station. Water for
gardens is cut off every summer, but this is
more or less IMMATERIAL, as soil grows
practically nothing but weeds. A DRAIN-
AGE SYSTEM is promisedy—has been for
the last five years, and is likely to be for
the next ten years. No domestic help of
any kind available, the nearest picture-show
being in a township three miles down the
line. ROOMS poky and inconvenient, and
WHITE ANTS firmly established in wood-
work throughout.
The property belongs to one of our lead-
ing jerry-builders, who is asking £2OOO, but
would jump at an offer of half. >
FOR SALE. FOR SALE. FUR-
NITURE. On Time Payment AT TIME!
PAYMENT PRICES—plus 10 per cent.
Let ME make Money out of YOU.
I am offering MY-
SELF a UNIQUE
OPPORTUNITY.
LOUGIIBOYS at
the remarkable
price of £l2 10s.
apiece. I am in a
position to offer my
clients these out-
rages at the above
FIGURE as a
Chinese makes
them for me at £4
apiece. An interest-
ing CHARACTER-
ISTIC is that ALL
OF THE DRAW-
ERS OPEN DIF-
FERENTLY.
SEE ray SOLID
MAPLE BED-
ROOM SUITES.
Value £l5. MY
PRICE £3O!
MANY MORE
BARGAINS of the
Sort.
I have also a few
USED PIANOS. I
would particularly like to palm off on you
a RUINED DRESDEN BOSCH. Check
action. Iron frame. Ivoi’y keys, of which
only about a dozen produce any sound. I
am hoping to get £2O out of some idiot for
this relic.
11. SINGEMOINE.
Coue-ism in Sydney during Heat Week:—•
“Every day, in every way, I grow wetter and
wetter.”
Sydney Sun : “Hendren has got ‘lt.’ ”
And most of our men who have bowled
against him have got Hit.
y. y
According to the Commonwealth Statis-
tician the cost of living has fallen. Does
anyone know how to raise it?
y y
“Sanguine Police: More Pay Coming?”
John Hoptimists.
The bookmaker lives on the flat of the
land.
y y
Old friends, old wine, old books, old memo-
ries—anything, in fact, except the old
woman.
y y
TESTY TRIFLES.
Our selectors don’t team with ideas.
A win? The wish is father to the fourth.
Australian cricket isn’t what it’s cracked
up to be. It’s merely cracked up.
y y .
“BE CLEVER, SWEET MAID.”
“Be good, sweet maid, and let who will be
clever”
Is counsel that requires to be amended.
In fact, it would no damage do whatever
If the Victorian adage were upended.
For these are times, it ought to be distinctly
understood,
When maids have got to be extremely clever
to be good.
Mephisto.
y y
Punter’s note: Dead certs, usually are.
Half a loaf is considered better than none
in the civil service.
* #
THE TONGUE THAT SHAKSPEARE
SPOKE.
A Sydney Tram.
Conductor: “Fez! Fezplees! Ennymo
fez?”
Newsboy : “Poipe ! EEyah ! Benin’
poi pow!”
Lady of Refinement ( finding herself be-
side Undesirable Acquaintance) : “It’s a nace
evening.”
U.A. ( resentful of patronage ) : “Gladger
Zikit. Dust ev’rywhere, an’ the heat’s crool.
Putrid, / call it.”
L. of R.: “Ai see you doon’t treen your
dee-ar littul boyee to give up his seat to
ladeez.”
U.A.: ‘‘An’ why shoodee? Arnser me that.
Why shoodccl Haven’t I paid ferrim?
Ilavin’t I”
L. of R. ( suavely ) : “Quate. Quate.”
U.A.: “Havin’t I”
1., of R. ( sternly ) : “Quale."
First U.S.A. Citizen : “Ain’t sornmer these
old Aussie dames the bunk, Hank?”
HIGH TEA.
SARCASTIC CUSTOMER: “I suppose if I stayed here all night you
might see your way clear to serve me first thing to-morrow
morning?”
WAITRESS: “Not a hope, sir. I finish up here to-night.”
Second U.S.A. Citizen: “They sure are
prussic acid to me, Jeb. Why, only the way
they misarticulates ther language is enough
ter make a guy throw up.”
First Cit.: “You said it. There’s one
acrost the aisle with a fat kid as I’d like fine
to slam all round the blark —and then some.”
Second Cit.: “Sure. Ther kid’s fierce. A
guy ud be Santy Klaws ter ther whole Aus-
sie race that fed ’im p’isoned blutwurst.”
Flapper (to youthful admirer) : “I don’t
believe you are as dippy about me as you try
to make out. Not reely, trooly, properly,
that is, if you grasp what I wanter say.”
Youth (in passionate mumble) : “You’re
bonze, Norma. Straight you are. It abser-
lootly lays me out ter be with yer. Dinkum
it does.”
Flapper: “All the boys say that. I’m
sure I dunno what it is. Just intelleck, or
edjication, or something, I shouldn’t be
surprised. I’m sure it’s not my looks.”
Youth (as one suddenly inspired) : “It’s
yer legs. They’re—they’re”——
Flapper : “Golly ! Ain’t you just the dizzy
limit! But honist-ter-goodness, I can’t see
that I’m a scrap different from other girls,
if you get what I’m trying to convey. I
mean, of course, my legs aren’t what a per-
son ud call foul iggsackly, an’ they all say
my face isn’t too rotten. But you couldn’t
compare it with your sister Elsie’s, what I
mean. An’ look at the S.A. she has!”
Youth (loyally) : “Elsie’s got a face like
a sossidge.”
Conductor: “Darlinur Seek!”
Newsboy: “Poi pow! Sunnernooze! EEnin’
poipe!”
10-2-4.
* *
ALSORANNERS.
Full many quids that lately were the bosses’
Within stout bookies’ satchels now abide;
Full many clerks are counting up their
losses,
And wishing that they too in bags could
hide.
THE VICARIOUS FISHERMAN.
From Sydney Sunday Sun :
The hard life of the northern seas where fisher-
folk dwell and earn a vicarious living.
Who has not met the hardy vicarious
fisherman? He is to be found lying (in both
senses of the word) near his boat. As a
rule you are betrayed into taking out the
malodorous ruin on your own. Sometimes,
however, for an extra fee he will accompany
you, in which case it is his custom to sit
back while you row, and explain later why
there are no fish about. Should you want
fish to cover the shame of your failure he
will supply some at extraordinary rates
which he has bought elsewhere, and which
go bad in the paper on the way home.
He makes his living vicariously in every
sense of the word, and he is unquestionably
hardy. A possible reason for calling him
a fisherman is that he gets so many bites.
¥ *
A Scot was found recently on his hands
and knees at the M.C.G. He had heard
that Blackie was able to get a nip off the
pitch.
•V H-
Melbourne Herald grieves because there
is no pictorial record of early Melbourne
relics. Why not photograph a few of our
Test stars?
* *
1929: —
Mary has a little frock —•
The old one cut in half....
Who cares a d—n for Mary's lamb
Now we can see her calf?
W.T.
THE EXPERT.
The papers still blither of Test-match form
for fellers like you to read,
Ami green as grass you, gobble it up, when
the thing you really need
Is a bloke to give you the dinkum oil, and
I am, the one that can,
’Cause .1 lan Kippax’s barber’s cousin is my
sister May’s young man.
Oh, I’m strong on cricket from A to A, there’s
nothing that I don’t know
And real good-natured I am as well, and
whenever I happen to go
To the Cricket Ground on a Saturday, and
half of the coves in sight,
Are all at sea on the finer points, it’s your
’umble that puts ’em right.
I know — beca/use Maisie’s gentleman friend
has told me—without a doubt,
The way in which Oxenham works his spin,
and how lie gets Sutcliffe out ;
I know what the Englishmen like to eat,
and the size of Bradman’s hat.
And the hair-oil that Hammond uses, and
the make of Jack Ryder’s bat.
That I know the team what we oughter
pick you can safely bet your life.
To prodooce the hottest twelve in sight is as
easy as saying “knife”
If you’ve got the requisite knowledge—and
I’m, sitting on what I’ve heard—
But the blarsted selectors, as us-u-al, are
slipping, you take my word!
You can’t tell me that they know their job —
I’m the last one to skitc—and yet ....
Wadgcr sayin’ there?.... There’s just one
tip that you’d really like to get;
“Will our fellers win any games at all?”
Well, lad, if you’ve got to know,
Just wait a jiff an’ I’ll go and find out from
my sister Maisie’s beau!
D. G.
THE PIONEER WINS OUT.
He arrived in Australia with nothing but
what he stood up in and a couple of shots
of cocaine. A pub-keeper gave him a job
as boundary-rider in the kitchen droving
potatoes into the cookpot.
He invested ss. in Batt’s sweep with his
first pay.
As sunset (6 p.m.) approached next day
he humped bluey as far as the saloon bar
and embarked on a fossicking job—in a
drunk’s pocket. He cleared up ss. 3d.
One of the coins was a two-headed penny.
In a two-up school that night he won
£127 Ss. 4|d. He bought 16 copies of
the Evening Pong, and after eight attempts
won the £5OO prize in the Golden Horse-
shoe guessing competition. His passion for
honest toil, his determination to make good
in the fair land of his adoption, was only
increased by these successes. He paid a
subscription to the Fudge in his room-mate’s
name, got the latter to fill in the insurance
coupon making him the beneficiary, and
pushed his friend under a tram.
Fame and fortune were now in sight. He
sent his sixpence or shilling to every advertis-
ing competition in the State, and by the end
of the year had won two motor-cars, a
diamond tiara, a bride’s trousseau, a trip to
Hong Kong, a layette, a houseful of furni-
ture, a suburban bungalow and the £lOOO
offered in the Blight Spray Slogan Competi-
tion. About this time he found that he had
also won the first prize in Batt’s sweep, for
which he had entered when he first began his
game struggles for the Mastery of Fate.
After going into business, and having two
GOT ONE OF THE SAME MAKE.
PETER: “Did Edison make the first talking-
machine'?”
PETER'S PAPA: “No, he did NOT ! God
made her.”
successful fires, he married (so as to be able
to put his money in his wife’s name), went
bankrupt three times, and retired.
He is now in Parliament. The advantage
of a moral and strenuous life is his favorite
oratorical theme, and cheers always resound
when he tells of how he landed in Australia
with but tuppence-ha’penny and a postage-
stamp, and by economy, straight dealing and
iron determination, fought his way to the top.
H.


Dunlop Safeguards
the Motorist!
If,
"'(i,-
*//. ‘Hi,
mtl , %. £>*_
3
u t'nnuWi
lUu -.A
H/KMfrl'l”
uir * *
X»A
a r?
V'
| «/. n
r<w. ..*«
4 //m//i f
!J (l r I*
Slfoi TOffi
m f .
*#.
w [
, H
i
• ?
r
/
/
Hi
2
2^
tMr'/A
/
r
/
///
5M
4?
'A
1
«*#
r"
VA.
?/?
r
*
%
zt
**«L
«M!
fi
r
r
4
Ss%
///^
({W*
m
/
,!0\
r //,
i/A
rrn
W'/r/i
\
5000 GARAGES STOCK DUNLOP


ŵ
The Sign of
QUALITY
The Wunderlich Trademark is
a sign of quality it is your
guarantee of sterling value in
the following materials: —
Art Metal Ceilings, Terra Cotta
Roofing Tiles, Asbestos Cement
(Durabestos) Building Sheets.
Look for the trademark on these
products, when you purchase.
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
fiaptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
VICHY
HWMiDSB
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Street*,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Risk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Comperfsation,
etc., etc.
BRACKEN
By BERNARD CRONIN
Illustrations <by Treason
Synopsis : Brought up by his aunt,
Ann Martin, at Music Ridge, a Oipps-
land selection, where, while his uncle
lived, he dragged out a slaving exist-
ence among the cows, Jasper Leith has
his eyes turned citywards through a
friendship with Ronald Braid, a young
artist. Lois lleaument, the girl with
whom he has always shared a mutual
fondness, is sent to Melbourne for
schooling, and Jasper has decided to
go there also and make money when,
talcing a little too much drink at the
Harrises, he gets into a compromising
situation, and tells Tod Harris that
he is going to marry his sister Cora,
a ; blousy type of girl whom he had pre-
viously disliked. They marry and go
to Melbourne, where Jasper’s early
business and: matrimonial life are
failures. A child is born and dies;
Cora nags; and Tod, who lias become
a racecourse luinger-gn, hints that a
commercial traveller named Roughton,
with whom Cora had been very inti-
mate just before marriage, is again
carrying-on with her. Jasper, how-
ever, misses the insinuation. Mean-
while Braid has proposed to Lois and
been lightly rejected. Then, after
several disappointments, speculation
brings Jasper a large sum of money.
He is becoming very worried about
Cora, and this reaches a climax when
one night she is still out at 12 o’clock.
CHAPTER XXL
Storm Clouds.
TO make sure that Cora had not re-
turned Jasper went to her room and
turned on the light. He stared a
little blankly at the undisturbed bed. Cora
had never before been quite so late. Perhaps,
he argued unconvincingly, she was sleeping
at some friend’s house. But he rejected this
as very improbable. It was not Cora’s
practice to sleep away from home. She was
rather fussily concerned for the little inti-
mate arranging of her own room.
Jasper returned to the couch in the sit-
ting-room and lit a cigarette. He was sud-
denly filled with unease. The street beyond
was in utter quiet. There came to his
anxious listening no sound but the ticking
of the clock and the faint, melancholy echo
of a whistling train. The echo died to a
stale, oppressive silence.
The room was queerly tilled with the
odor of nivht, a kind of emanation of the
darkness that was subtly dank and dis-
couraging. On an impulse Jasper opened
the shop door and peered down the long
black tube of the deserted street. He re-
turned to the sitting-room with a feeling
of apprehension, not wholly free from anger.
Cora, he now told himself, was taking her
indifference to too great lengths altogether.
She had no right to trade in this manner
upon his common humanity, as though he
were incapable of a decent concern for her
safety.
As the minutes passed, Jasper’s mood be-
came contrite, and his first ominous unease
returned. Poor old Cora, she hadn’t had
much of a spin! He must make it up to
her, if he could—if it wasn’t too late.
Two o’clock came. At three o’clock
Jasper was touched by panic. His fore-
boding pictured all manner of terrible hap-
penings. He began to consider the
advisability of making inquiry at the hos-
pitals and the police-station. Already he
could hear himself saying stammeringly
over the telephone: “Yes, a young, stoutly-
built woman, with dark-red hair. I don’t
know how she is dressed”
He came jerkily from this
unhealthy imagining. And yet
he had obvious need to do some-
thing. It was incredible that Cora
remained absent by design. She was
scarcely so heartless.
A tiny thread of sound came to him
from beyond the shop door. Someone was
fumbling at .the catch. As he started to
his feet the door fell inwards slowly, and
as slowly was shut. Jasper found himself
with his hand on Cora’s arm as she emerged
clumsily into the light of the room. Be-
yond and about his almost breathless sense
of relief was the impetus of a new and dis-
turbing thought. A smell of liquor came
rankly to his nostrils, and his face flamed
in recognition of her condition. He let her
fall ungently into a chair, and stood away
from her with a muttered disgust. He
thought dully: “This is the last disgrace!
Good God!”
Cora was staring at him. She had flung
her hat aside, and the red flame of her
dishevelled hair lit the pasty white of her
cheeks. She lifted one hand heavily to
her throat and said, in a tortured, dread-
ful voice: “Well, I’ve come home. Make
the most of it.”
Suddenly she began to laugh.
Jasper waited stonily for the hysteria to
pass. He said, endeavoring to speak
quietly: “If you will tell me the reason
for all this I shall be wiser. Where have
you been? I suppose you know what hour
it, is? I expect even the most spiritless
husband would require an explanation under
the circumstances.”
Cora’s eyes dilated, but she said nothing.
Jasper continued after a moment: “Of
course, if you feel too ill there’s no urgency.
Any time that suits you. I don’t expect
you to outrage a lifelong habit of self-
convenience.”
The sneer roused her. She sat up, wiping
the stains from her sodden face and pushing
aside the heavy curtain of her hair. There
was immeasurable defiance in the thick folds
of her voice.
“I’ll tell you now. I’ve been out driving
with Bill.”
“Bill?”
“Bill Roughton. If it’s the last time
O my God, what am I saying?” She
choked for a second. “Well, you may as
well know the lot. It wasn’t the first.”
“Wait a moment,” Jasper said sharply.
The veins in his head were like hot, fine-
drawn wires that were fused into an intoler-
able pain. He heard his own voice as that
of a stranger, remote and scarcely distin-
guishable. “Roughton? This is inter-
esting. Well?”
Cora said wearily: “What more do you
want me to say? I don’t care what you
do. I’m beyond caring for anything.”
“And you come home at three in the
morning?” He repeated this stupidly as
though it might be some lesson he was
suddenly impressed with the need for learn-
ing. “At three in the morning?”
Over the gap of his groping silence he
heard Cora saying: “I never meant to come
back at all. i meant to leave you.”
“Did you?” said Jasper.
He discovered himself holding to the
edge of the mantel, looking down at Cora’s
ugly, revealing smile through a haze of raw
understanding. So this was truth—at last.
Tod had known. Tod had tried to draw
the veil of his blindness. At the back
of Jasper’s mind an echo of sanity moved
up the inky chasm of his clamoring thought,
sounding sick warning to his reaching hands.
The savagery of his hurt was checked by
a sudden, swift cry from Cora, a cry epic
and unforgettable in its bitter confession of
despair.
“Bill Roughton was the only man I’ve
ever loved. Kill me if you want to. Do you
think I’m afraid now?”
Jasper drew back. “Not you, Cora. It’s
Roughton I want.”
“You’re too late,” Cora said with an im-
mense calm. “Roughton is dead.”
His mind tasted this horribly, fearing its
untruth.
“Dead?” „ ,
“The car crashed. I had to walk here.
Half the night.”
Jasper was unconscious of her sudden col-
lapse. He said after what seemed an in-
finity of time: “But of course it’s impossible
to continue... .separation... .owe something
to the memory of our child.”
The word seemed to snap Coras control.
She screamed in a ghastly abandon: “You
fool 1 You fool! You were never father
of anything but your own conceit. Now
do you know the hell of it all?”
Dawn was creeping from behind the
blinds when Jasper raised a haggard face
from the support of, his cupped hands. Cora
was still huddled in her chair, disordered
and melancholy. Her swollen eyes followed
his movements apathetically as he went to
turn off the light. In the resulting gloom
of the room her face, with its framing of
tousled hair, was oddly feline. Her tongue
caressed the full line of her lips in a slow,
mechanical pursuit of habit. She seemed
to breathe with difficulty.
Jasper said, breaking the silence of hours:
“Well, it’s all settled. The pretence is over,
thank God! Now you can do exactly as
you please. You can leave me this minute
'if you like.” ~
“And starve, I suppose, tor all you and
care!” Cora answered with a crooked smile.
“I know the law better than that. My
home’s here.”
“Very well,” Jasper said unemotionally.
“I’ll go elsewhere myself. I’ll see a lawyer
as soon as I can and arrange for a separa-
tion. You can carry on this business to suit
yourself. I don’t care what you do ”
“I’ll see my own lawyer,” Cora promised.
She was frankly distrustful. “You’ll have
to support me, so you needn’t worry. And
you can’t divorce me, for you’ve got no
evidence outside of me.”
Jasper ignored the jeer. He went to the
bathroom and sluiced his aching head in
cool water for long, grateful minutes. After-
wards he lit the gas stove and made strong
coffee, which he gulped greedily. When
he returned to the sitting-room Cora had
vanished. He could hear her moving about
her room. He sat for a long time stiffly on
the end of the sofa, mind and body numbed
in reaction. The outside world was long
settled to the business of the new day
w r hen he roused to gather a few personal
belongings together and take his hat and
coat from the hook on the passage wall.
He called abruptly at Cora’s closed door:
“I’m going now. I’ll send you some money
as soon as I know what is arranged.”
There was no answer.
On an impulse Jasper opened the door.
Cora was sprawled in untidy sleep, her hair
flaming angrily about the pale sensuousness
of her exposed neck and bosom. He with-
drew abruptly.
As he stepped to the street a boy on
a bicycle, the red badge of the post office
on his arm, called his name.
“Mr. Leith? Telegram.”
Jasper nodded. His fingers tore clumsilv
at the envelope. There was a dull singing
at his ears and his mouth was suddenly
dry.
He read: “Your aunt died last night un-
expectedly. Inquest to-morrow. Come at
once.” The message was signed “Albert.”
Jasper walked on mechanically. As he
pushed the slip of paper into his pocket
he touched his forgotten bank passbook.
He drew it out and opened it, gazing at
the figures with eyes that were blurred and
hot.
He thought: “O God aunt won’t
ever speak to me any more! Aunt’s dead.
Well, I’ve got this, anyhow. Money’s
a good deal—l’ve got to remember that.
If only aunt could have known before she
died! Damn it, I can hardly see a man
isn’t supposed to cry... .though only God
knows why he shouldn’t Steady, you
fool! I must line! out how the trains run.
'Or a car—l can afford a car to Guruwa....
£5000!”
CHAPTER XXII.
Ronald Braid Paints a Picture.
Ronald Braid, in a smock of blue linen,
his fair hair rumpled between heat and
perplexity, was secretly rather relieved
when Lois exclaimed, from her chair on the
little dais: “Ron, couldn’t we have some
tea now? I’m utterly parched. I had no
idea that sitting for one’s portrait was
such a wearisome business. Do put that
greasy brush away and let’s be sociable.”
“It’s the heat,” Ronald sympathised. He
lit the gas-ring in the corner of the studio
and balanced thereon an infinitesimal tin
kettle. “Actually there are two clean cups.
Well, how do you think it’s coming on?
I’m rather bucked myself.”
Lois was examining her likeness critically
from the centre of the floor.'
“Is my mouth really as bad-tempered
as that?”
Ronald hastily joined the inspection.
“D’you call that bad-tempered? I don’t.
Anyway, you’re not finished yet—not by
a long chalk. I say, can you drink China
tea? It’-s all I’ve got. Well, portrait
painting is dashed hard work, I can tell
you. Look at me sweating away to get
some sort of recognition. And look at
Jasper getting rotten with money. He
can’t go wrong.”
“Not in money-making, it seems,” Lois
agreed. For some reason she sighed, and
then immediately smiled again. “But
Jasper has been generous with his luck,
Ron. You’ve told me yourself that he
has invested for you, and for others of
his friends, quite often.”
“Oh, we’ve made a bit,” Ronald con-
ceded, flushing. “Old Jasper is pretty
decent. Parasole, and young Flackstyles,
and Allenby North—we’ve all got on to
some extra cash through Jasper’s advice.
Seen him lately?”
“You know Jasper comes to the flat
every Friday,” Lois saicj candidly. “It’s a
sort of habit he has. And I’m glad. You
remember how ill he was, Ron? He needed
desperately something to take him out of
himself.”
Ronald nodded. “He had a rough spin
for awhile. Marvellous how he’s come on,
though, since he let Cora go. She was
killing him.” He looked at Lois in a
queerly speculative way. “Cora was the
one mistake he made. I wonder he didn’t
strangle her.”
“Instead of which he provides for her
most generously,” Lois said, and changed
the subject quietly. “Really, Ron, youre
doing me more than justice. I’ve often
wished I could paint. Especially portraits.
Do you really think you’ve a chance with
me for the Archibald prize? Ron, wouldn’t
that be fine?”
He met her sparkling eyes moodily.
“Oh, I’ve a chance, I suppose. I’ll defy
any man to have a finer subject, anyhow.
Look here, dear”....
“I think,” Lois said judicially, “the
lighting might be better just at my left
temple. It looks a bit heavy. But, ot
course, it isn’t finished yet.”
“Damn the lighting!”
“Please be sensible. Ron, you promised
me faithfully... .as a condition that I would
sit to you. We’d better get to work again,
hadn’t we? I can only give you half an
hour longer to-day. I’m' having lunch with
Mrs. Pole-Bugle and Betty at one, at the
Aurora. Now, Ron, think of the Archibald
prize. Am I posed right?”
“Just your hands—that’s better. Oh,
all right. D’you want to talk? Because
I want your mouth in repose. It’s got me
a bit bothered.”
He added, after a silent interval of paint-
ing: “Well, if I have the luck to weigh in
with the prize, I can promise you one
thing.”
(Continued on page 4-i'-)


ẁ
"Sonoma” - March 2nd
"Sierra” - - April 13 th
"Sierra” - • June 15 th
"Sonoma” - - July 6th
"Sierra” - August 17th
"Ventura” - Sept. 28th
"Sonoma” - - Nov. 9th
"Sierra” - - Dec. 21st
ẃ
Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
IN CO-OPERATION WITH
WAGONS-UTS CO.
The only Firm with permanent
offices all over the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third class,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
ESCORTED TOURS TO EUROPE.
ALL CLASSES —Leaving February, March,
April. We are the pioneers of Escorted
Travel, and having our own offices through-
out Europe, are the only Tourist Firm
properly equipped to handle such business.
ẅ
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street,
ADELAIDE:
49 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE;
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building*
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
XNext G.P.0.).
,‘Too-Old/ ‘Tired-Out
9
KIDNEY TROUBLE CAUSES YOUR WEAKNESS!
CHRONIC BACKACHE, SLEEPLESS, NO APPETITE, HEADACHES
TARE THIS WARNING
SUDDEN pains in the back, limbs aching with sharp, painful twitchings,
headaches, “dead-tired,” too-old feeling, worn-out, sleepless—Nature
flashes her signals to the brain, disclosing deep-seated kidney trouble.
Why do you go on suffering day after day,
month after month, when a host of men
once suffering as you do, many bed-ridden,
have come from “untold agonies,” terrible
depression to splendid vigor and vitality?
There are thousands of healthy men and women
once chronic sufferers who could tell you De
Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills can be relied on
in cases of Rheumatism, Kidney Trouble, Loss
of Vitality. They would also tell you that you will
be very wise to invest in a box of this 40-year-old
standardised remedy. There is no mystery about
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills. Your chemist
can tell you all about the prescription clearly
printed on the box. Furthermore, he sells this
remedy under distinct guarantee that in 24 hours
you will see and know the pills are doing you
good. If not, your money is refunded.
®uarenvtc&
From the very first
dose “De Witt’s”
will prove their
health restoring
value. That is our
guarantee.
Doctors in many countries and
thousands of one-time sufferers
recommend De .Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills for the speedy,
certain way they bring health.
Take just these two from a host
of recent letters of thanks:——
Mr. William Paul O’Keeffe, 163
Pyrmont Street, Pyrmont, N. S.
Wales, says:—
“I suffered for many years from
Kidney and Bladder Trouble, and
though I had tried many remedies
I gained little relief. I saw your
Kidney and Bladder Pills adver-
tised, and secured some. I im-
proved straight away, and after
taking a few bottles I was free
from all my pain. I consider they
are wonderful, and will advise all
sufferers to take them and benefit
as I have done.”
Mr. John Rogers, 69 Harrow
Road, Auburn, N.S.W., says:—
“Three years ago I suffered very
badly with Kidney and Bladder
Trouble, and was in constant pain.
THERE LIES THE SECRET
OF YOUR TROUBLE
(The Remedy is told of here)
I tried all sorts of medicines with
very little result. A neighbour told
me about De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills. I took some, and
after three or fotir doses I noticed
improvement. After two bottles I
can say I am now in perfect health.
I am very thankful, and, have told
many others about De Witt’s Kid-
ney and Bladder Pills.”
Why not let De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills start you on the
road to health to-day? Go to your
chemist and get a 3/6 or 6/6 sup-
ply ; take them regularly. You will
be amazed how quickly health will
come. If you really want health
and the vigor and vitality that
make you enjoy work and pleasure,
do not delay this matter. Act to-
day. If you are not near a chemist
write for a supply. The sooner you
have “De Witt’s” in your home the
sooner you will have once again
health and splendid fitness. Re-
member, there is no substitute,
nothing just as good as “De Witt’s”
—the remedy with the guarantee.
De WITT’S
THE REMEDY THAT SHOWS I
RESULTS IN 24 HOURS
KIDNEY AND
BLADDER
PILLS


w
ŵ
ẁ
GUIATTS
CRUTCHES
—Light, Comfortable,
Strong, Reliable.
(a) INEXPENSIVE type, 15/-
pair; others 20/-; 27/6:
35/-; 39/6.
(ft) Patent spring heads, selected
ash; rubber shoes. 50/- pair,
others 45/-; 63/-and 77/6.
Invalid Chairs, Sick-room
Requisites, Air Cushions.
Free Surgical Appliance Folder
posted anywhere. Dept. B.
GUYATT & CO.
257 a George Street, Sydney.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CUUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISEAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAD ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNED CDUB
N.Z. GODF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. PODO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World’s Deading
Advertising Agencies.
Shipping, etc.
ẃ
1
'fsA
m
:v#/f 9
\‘lt
fmßmkls*
/' IMf
EE£3Kw
Comfort at Sea
Broad white decks, comfort-
able lounges, well-equipped
cabins, and an ever-appetis-
ing menu combine to make
sea travel by the palatial
Niagara or Aorangi a de-
lightful holiday trip.
Particulars from
UNION STEAM SHIP
COMPANY,
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne, Cl.
S.S. NIAGARA & AORANGI
Mi
SC^lifgg«lSl^MgilaillljlilMlr^>ilJtlg.^
nMn
m-'^M
':7s.
7T:
■sc&iz
Attractive Trips of from 2 to 7 Weeks.
Magnificent Scenery, Luxuriant Tropical Vegetation
and Quaint Surroundings.
Make a selection and book early for a most interesting
Holiday.
SOUTH SEA ISLAND CRUISES
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Lord
Howe Island, Norfolk Island and New Hebrides
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
(“The Garden of fhe East”)
Monthly Sailings from Melbourne and Sydney
by the “MARELLA” (7500 tons) and
“MALABAR” (5000 tons).
BURNS, PHILP &> COMPANY LIP.
SYDNEY AND BRANCH OFFICES
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1811.
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND .
RESERVE LIABILITY
.a,
£7,500,000
6,900,000
7,500,000
£20,900,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq.. M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; W. E. H. Southerden, Esq. General Manager: Alfred Charles Davidson.
Head Office—George Street. Sydney London Office—29 Threadoeedle Street. EC. 2.
536 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,075,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,553,025 0 0
Directors :
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN ( Chairman) ; Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES,
M.L.C.: Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS. —Inspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
ẅ
GO NOW TO
HAWAII
HONOLULU
The Holiday land of the Pacific.
This Pacific Island Playland is yours—but 13
days away—beautiful islands set in azure seas
-—-offering you the holiday of your life this
Summer.
Will you take it?
First-class fare for the round-trip from £7s—
.Co5—cheap indeed for such a
trip. Hotel Expenses (run on the very best
First-class American lines) are as low as 12/-
to £3 per day, with meals.
Fullest particulars from all travel and steam-
ship company offices—or from this office direct.
HAWAII TOURIST BUREAU,
Dept. 26. Box 162788, G.P.O. Sydney.
COME TO
Hawaii —Honolulu
and have the holiday of your life.
w
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
f THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cu>
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention
Office*: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney-
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals t ith every subject of
interest to women.


BELLEVUE HILL,
"CAERLEON ESTATE”
ON THE HEIGHTS, WITH UNPARALLELED PANORAMIC
VIEWS OF THE HARBOR FROM PORTIONS OF THE ESTATE
13 LIBERAL-SIZED ALLOTMENTS
13 LIBERAL-SIZED ALLOTMENTS
IN SYDNEY’S EXCLUSIVE HOME CENTRE.
Formerly the Grounds to the Mansion of the late Sir Rupert Clarke, Bart.'
In the vicinity of the Magnificent Homes of Walter Brunton, Esq., Colin Stephen,
Esq., E. W. Xfnox, Esq.; adjoins the residences of the late Sir James Fairfax
and Dr. Stuart McKay, and opposite that of Sir Mark Sheldon.
With frontages to Kambala Road and Rupertswood Avenue.
TERMS: 10 per cent, deposit, balance in 12 equal quarterly
payments. Interest: 6 per cent.
TORRENS TITLE. LITHOGRAPHS NOW AVAILABLE.
SOLICITORS: Messrs. WHITING & BYRNE, 101 William Street,
Melbourne. Represented by their Sydney Agents, Messrs.
MINTER, SIMPSON & CO., 33 Hunter Street, Sydney.
SURVEYOR: NORMAN SC. BENNETT, Esq., 28 Martin Place, Syd.
AUCTION SALE ON THE GROUND,
SATURDAY, 16th FEBRUARY, 1929, AT 3 P.M.
RICHARDSON & WRENCH, LIMITED,
AUCTIONEERS. 92 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“The Safe Food.”
ẁ
Food
I.JKI
Kesd.TBADB MAUI.
Owing to constant re-
commendation and use by
medical men, and because
it is so easily digested,
Benger’s has become known
as “the safe Food” for In-
fants, Invalids and the Aged.
Send for Benger’s Booklet, post free.
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.,
350, George Street, SYDNEY.
%
She Doesn’t Know!
To-day her beauty is unblemished; her step is
light and quick, her smile is gay, her teeth gleam
with the white of polished pearls. A fig, then, for
to-morrow!
Yet even now those precious charms are threatened
by Pyorrhea, and she doesn’t know the danger.
It is a grim fact that four out of five people who
pass the age of forty are marked by Pyorrhea for
its victims. Thousands of younger also suffer.
And in almost every case the disease might be
prevented if heed were only paid to Nature s
warnings.
Watch your gums. They flash the first danger signal.
If they are tender, if they bleed easily when
brushed, beware! That is the way Pyorrhea starts.
If you have Pyorrhea symptoms go at once to your
dentist for teeth and gum inspection, and start
using Forhan’s For the Gums to-day. Neglect
is costly. For as Pyorrhea gains headway it loosens
the teeth until they drop out or must be extracted.
Deadly puss pockets form at the roots, and germs
seep throughout the system, causing many kinds of
illness.
If used consistently and used in
time, Forhan’s For the Gums will
prevent Pyorrhea or check it in
its course. An excellent denti-
frice, it keeps the teeth white and
clean and the gums pink and
healthy. Price, 2/- and 3/6.
Obtainable at all Chemists and
Stores, or will be sent, post free,
upon receipt of the price bj
the Sheldon Drug Co., Ltd.
131-35 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Formula by R. J. Forhan, D.D.S,
Forhan Company, New York
'■ -S'
«
UMS
3UR
Or
Hlftff!
ForharTs
FOR THE GUMS
Pen and Pi ctur e
Shadow Shows
ŵ
to seeing good work that it looks at
it with indifference. That is where such a
picture as “The First Kiss” steps in and
makes you appreciate good work when you
see it. The promise that a really fine news
screen would follow kept this Shadow Show-
man in his seat through all the dreary eight
(or was it 58?) reels. What a picture!
What a genius he must have been who con-
ceived it! What a waste of beautiful photo-
graphy ! But what came after it made full
amends. The Etna lava flow photographed
from right under the very nose of its ad-
vance! An extraordinary spectacle of the
lava crumbling up rocks and earth; a hiss-
ing, belching, monstrous movement, pushing
down bridges, walls, houses; crumpling a
town with its hideous flat snout; pushing
over great buildings and then—eating, digest-
ing them! Imagine a building five storeys
or more high collapsing before a horrible,
slow-moving, rubble-like mass, and falling
into it, and, stone, mortal’, furniture, a thou-
sand things that represent the glory that is
man, being mouthed up by it, passed into its
writhing maw and made part of itself! The
first kiss, indeed! Why, this would be
worth waiting through 15 reels devoted to
the first milk-shake!
Does “Romance of the Underworld” (Fox)
need to be outlined here? Is there anyone
who still has not met that kind-hearted,
gallant, omniscient gentleman who so hand-
somely and consistently represents the
United States detective? Can anyone really
say he has
lived if he is
not already on
familiar terms
with that
lovely, melt-
ing, sweet,
homely, ex-
iquisitely-beau-
tiful girl who
in the Under-
world gets dis-
gusted with
the secret
night club she
is helping to
conduct, and
leaves it, and
becomes a
laundress, and
is sacked; and
becomes a
waitress, and
is sacked; and
becomes a
stenograph e r,
and is loved
and gets mar-
MARY ASTOR, of
“Romance of the
Underworld.”
Tied? Breathes there a man with purse so
dead who never to himself hath said this
dirty dog, with the bowler hat (always the
hard-hitter!) and the cigarette (always the
gasper!), this slinking, olive-faced bad man
typifies the evil forces of that subterranean
world? And ladies—for this is your affair
—does this handsome jaw, these _ muscular
arms, this bold brow, this. Adonis of the
glittering hair-oil and the immaculate suit
not remind you? Have you not seen mm
before? Does he not represent Hero, with
the “H” in the big type? And you, elderly
tipplers all, how often have you seen your-
selves mirrored in this grandfatherly feeler
of ladies’ shoulders? Of course, you know
’em all, every one of you, every one of them.
And that is why you go along and take your
joy from this picture. Mary Astor, Ben
Bard, Robert Elliott, John Boles, Oscar
Apfel in their respective parts are old friends.
No doubt we’ll all get sick of them some
day, and of the Underworld with em; but
for the present they are with us, and we,
apparently, are with them.
Attempts to translate a written drama to
the screen literally are as futile as the pre-
tence that the Melbourne Theatre Royal
gramophone sounds like 20 members of the
Musicians’ Union. The spoken drama has
resources which the silent ditto hasn t
and vice versa. The filmwright plumps you
inside a taxi-cab, where everything is m a
maldemerish wobble. The next moment you
are outside paying the driver You are
rushed up the steps of a magnificent man-
sion. The bell is rung (close-up of a bell-
push). You are transported to the other end
of the wire to see it ringing. It interrupts
a butler in the act of kissing the under house-
maid You are provided with a close-up ot
the embrace, although you are ostensibly
still outside on the doorstep. You are back
to the door again. It swings open. You are
in the hall. The broad staircase sails to-
wards you, 'and the steps proceed to revolve
beneath the hero’s elegant footwear (close-
up of footwear). You are outside a bed-
room door —no, you are inside it! The bed
hears down on you like an amorous ava-
lanche. It swells and swells until there is
nothing left on the screen but one gigantic
pillow. There is a head on the pillow—a
beautiful head, if of somewhat unusual
dimensions. But you are not left outside of
the head. By no means. You are conducted
right inside it on a sort of Cook’s Brain
Tour. The head is dreaming of moonlight
nights on the Riviera, and you are shot forth-
with into the middle of Monte Carlo (close-
ups of the moon and a roulette-wheel). The
head is dreaming of forbidden kisses and two
enormous duplicates of human blubber come
slowly together like osculating motor-tyres
or octopuses embracing silently in the depths
of the ocean. The next moment you are
hack from Monte Carlo, the bed has shrunk
to normal, and so forth. Effects like this
are beyond the spoken drama, which has to
fall back on such old-fashioned Shakspearean
devices as witty dialogue and subtle char-
acterisation. The picturisation of Noel
Coward’s “Easy Virtue” (Gainsborough Pic-
tures) is not quite the success it might have
been, because the producers, in trying to be
faithful to Coward, have occasionally been
disloyal to their medium. A dinner party,
for instance, which might be highly amusing
on the stage, on the silent sheet is merely a
gastronomic nuisance. Nevertheless, the
story of the woman who was prevented from
living down her past by the press photo-
graphers has its admirable moments, and in
Isabel Jeans it has a British actress who is
that rare conjunction, a star with brains as
well as beauty.
“llow to Treat Women” (Universal) is
not a compliment to its leading light, Glen
Tryon. He is a really good actor, who, with
a brisk line of conjuring to help him out,
is capable of raising laughs through 50
reels of good comedy. Here he has a trifling
farce. He has met the girl (Marion Nixon),
reporter on a New York paper, but his lick-
penny courting has not been successful. Then
he learns that the Prince of Volgaria is in
New York trying to raise the wind. He
secures an interview, and induces the Prince
to let him pose in his stead for a week, what
time he exploits the indigenous crop of Vol-
garia, to wit, peanuts. Within a few hours
all U.S.A. is eating peanuts, and the girl
is unconsciously helping out the publicity
by writing stories about the Prince for her
paper. Then a conference of bankers is
bluffed into signing on the dotted line, and
the pseudo Prince claims his girl. There
are laughs in it, but it can be sat out with-
out having to resort to corsets.
The Inky Way
“Boro”: Two veteran Victorian Inky
Wayfarers have recently passed on—James
Laidler, sometime managing editor of the
Maryborough Advertiser, and Alex. Wil-
liamson, editor of the Dunolly Express for
45 years. Laidler was a very fine mining
reporter in his day. Williamson helped to
survey parts of the Riverina before taking
to journalism; he was an uncle of ex-Premier
Lawson, now a Senator-elect.
“Lao-dah”: Already Melbourne Herald
has sent Syd Dcamer, its chief sub., to edit
South Australia’s oldest newspaper, the
Register, and Arthur Baker, the voluble but
competent art editor of the Herald, has gone
to give it an up-to-the-knocker illustrations
section. There is little doubt that the Holy
City will wake up one day to find an Adel-
aide replica of the very successful Melbourne
Sun-Pictorial being flung over its front
fences. The Advertiser, of which Keith
Murdoch, of the Herald, is also now a direc-
tor, will be run on its present lines.
Mat Ellis, the new director of Sydney’s
Radio Broadcast Bureau, is about the most-
travelled man in Australian journalism. He
has traversed much of Europe, the U.S.A.,
New Guinea and the Northern Territory for
various newspapers; he was with the Special
Service Squadron as the Press Union repre-
sentative ; he was in London for the Im-
perial Conference, and he had charge of
the British motor expedition from London
to' Delhi. Ellis is a picturesque writer, but
his outstanding gifts are a remarkable
capacity for organisation and a genius for
getting on well with all sorts and conditions
of people.
“St. Clare”: The company which has
taken over the Adelaide Advertiser will be
lucky if it gets another F. T. Robertson.
Robertson joined the staff when he was only
14, and has given 57 years of unbroken
service to the paper. His leaders are still
a feature of the Advertiser, but so many
years of work at high pressure have left
their mark on the modest man, and he hopes
to retire during the present year.
The Adelaide Advertiser is probably the
only paper in the world which ever gave its
editor-proprietor a wrong title on the morn-
ing after he was made a knight. The
news of Bonython’s title happened to come
through on one of the rare days when the
tireless little man was not at the office, and,
as the chief had always been known as
John L. Bonython, the man in charge natu-
rally introduced him to the Advertiser’s
readers as Sir John. The next issue adopted
the amended Sir Langdon without a quiver.
It is a cold week nowadays when The
Bulletin doesn’t get a coo-ee from some far
corner of the earth. The latest is from some
place in the State of Washington (U.S.A.),
and reads this way:—
I first met The Bulletin on an old stern-wheel
paddle-boat on the Yukon River. It took me so
much that I had to find out how it got into those
frozen regions, and discovered that it belonged to the
chief steward, who always took a job on a run to
Sydney in the months when the Yukon was frozen
over. That set me going, and I haven’t been with-
out The Bulletin since. What interests me, a
person who has never seen Australia? Well, I guess
the short stories are above the average; but it’s
what you call “Aboriginalities” that always have first
reading. I’d as soon miss my Geographic Magazine
as those couple of pages.
“John B”: The A.J.A. is having a long-
distance argument with a Queensland Labor
Assemblyman who alleged that the Han-
sard men reported his speeches “in the
interests of the Opposition.” Another Queens-
land Labor Assemblyman has fallen out with
the Longreach Leader. When the state of
war arrived this is how the paper reported
one of his orations:
Mr. Blank’s speech, with the personal abuse deleted,
was as follows.
(Then came six inches of blank space.)
“In conclusion,” he said, “Well, ladies and gentle-
men, I won’t weary youse any longer!” (Applause.)
It really doesn’t pay to quarrel with
reporters.
“Bargara”: Announcement of the coming
retirement of Powers, J., recalls that long
ago he was a solicitor in Bundaberg (Q.).
It was given out lately that he was about to
revisit his old town, and a Bundaberg daily
staged a welcome in the form of a “splash”
feature, with photos. An accident to one
of his Honor’s sons intervened, and his
Honor did not come. There was a dry
humor about his subsequent request for
copies of the paper—as he told a friend, it
contained much personal history that he had
forgotten, and of which his own family had
never heard.


99
44
< U > he Pulintf 'Preference
m
i
un
\W
&<&/'
A<*r/y
x&c.rtf
ym
w*
¥t
mi
'\
ziJm
m
lit
SS
'
RJS
fier
/ . <«.
A
F
eorQZ
i
-Vs
*
oO^
,;■ ■■ » •
fprAA
oft H t ,
r *
ST}li*« S °
<tJ»
■*/-h
soras
IV
99
(gold label)


REPAIRS.
“Our Hands Make Good Arms”
Firearms sent C.O.D.
eJhh
WALTHER .22-CAL.
AUTOMATIC PISTOL
with a 9-3-in. Barrel.
No license required for this model.
Magazine holds 13 long-rifle cartridges. Won-
derful accuracy to 100 yards. Ideal for motor-
car use on rabbits etc., without getting out,
of car.
Price, £7/15/- post free.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
1438 Elizabeth Street (near Market
Street), Sydney.
(Late 110 Bathurst Street.)
Welcome the Coming—Speed the Parting Guest with
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER,
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER.
Ask for Resch’s by Name.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
[3
Clothes for Men
and Their Sons
v\
A Good
Work Shirt
The “SANTWILL”
Worn by men in all corners of the Common-
wealth. Sand coloured Twill Shirting,
guaranteed fast colour. It revels in the
wash tub and laughs at hard work, I r\
All sizes. Three for 22/6. Each (I Z 7
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen Street, Brisbane
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Loquacious proved the good thing for the
A.J.C. Adrian Knox Stakes that form and
the betting (3 to 1 on) indicated. Munro
did not bustle Robert Miller’s filly until the
field entered the straight; then she went
from fourth to an easy first in less than a
hundred yards; Cleave (5 to 1), ridden out,
was a poor second. Like her brother Wind-
bag, Loquacious has come good rather late
for a three-year-old. She may be extending
the best of them, Strephon perhaps ex-
cepted, before the season is over.
It has been a great year for William
Kelso, who trains Loquacious; all the same,
he has been rather unfortunate in good
handicaps with his l own horse Fondant.
Narrowly beaten in both Summer and Tat-
tersall’s Cups (very unlucky in Tatt.’s race)
Fondant might have won the Anniversary
Handicap if Miss Australia hadn’t cut at
him in front for a mile or more. It was too
severe a test with Bst. 101 b. up, and Fondant
could not shake off Leadight when that
gelding tackled him; then Lucy Thrice came
fast on the outside and beat the pair of
them. Little more than a pony, Lucy Thrice
is trained by Jack Kelso, second son of Wil-
liam, who has her looking wonderfully
well. She was ridden by Parr, a very pro-
mising apprentice, and left the 12 furlongs
behind in 2min. 33Jsec. Leadight was
favorite at fours ; Vallino and Resource were
at sixes, Don Moon and Fondant at sevens
and Lucy Thrice at tens.
Greensil (4 to 1), a smart and very con-
sistent mare by Greenstead —Silver Wed-
ding, won the Flying Handicap from Aorangi
(8 to 1) and Ascalon (5, to 2), who is in
the same stable as Loquacious and Fondan*\
Black Douglas, second to Greensil at War-
wick Farm and third in the Challenge Stakes,
looked a taking proposition for the High-
weight Handicap, but he did not get much
help from Toohey, and, after challenging the
erratic Lady Constance (12 to 1), subsided
into fourth place, Quince (7 to 1) and
Gesto (10 to 1) chasing the grey mare home.
She was quoted at 12 to 1 and better, with
few takers.
Ninety-nine per cent, of the people in the
official stand thought Colored (5 to 1) had
beaten Crucis (7 to 2) in the Novice Handi-
cap, but the judge gave it to Crucis, who
came out wide. It was one of several judi-
cial decisions which have been criticised at
Randwick within the lasft few months; still,
criticism is easy and is apt to be influenced
by the pocket.
For Rosehill on Saturday:—
Three-year-old Handicap: Margarethal;
next, Boston.
Rosehill Stakes: Amounis; next, Beck-
with.
Flying Handicap: Black Douglas; next,
Anambah.
Rosehill Handicap: Patadawn; next,
Tressilian.
Carlingford Mile: Bravado; next, Bacagi.
* * * *
With Mollison, Greenline, Highland and
Simeon’s Fort among the non-acceptors (a
doubtful leg was the trouble in Simeon’s
Fort’s case), Gothic had nothing much to
beat in the William Reid Stakes at Moonee
Valley on Saturday. In fact, the beautiful
black stallion, though well above himself in
condition, had the easiest task of his career.
There was very little bettinfc; Gothic’s final
quote was 4 to .1 on. Zanibar dashed to the
front, and was three lengths clear of Roc —
a two-year-old from Scobie’s stable —half a
mile from home. But the race was over as
soon as Cairns, who was having his first
ride on Gothic, let the champion’s head go;
and Gothic won in a canter from Roc, who
came home rather well, and the tired Zani-
bar, in lmin. 14|sec.
Punters struck trouble early in the day,
the hurdle race going to Too Honest, a 10
to 1 shot, and the handicap for youngsters
to Star River, who was unmarketable at 33
to I—incidentally, he is a rather good sort
and should be heard of again. Morrie Mc-
Grath had something for his followers to bet
on in the Warrook Highweight; Mrs. Bux-
THE IDEAL OPENERS.
FAIR SUPPORTER: “Why do you send those two mugwumps in to start your innings?”
COUNTRY SKIPPER: “They’re the only teetotallers on our side, so they won’t worry
about how the beer’s holding out.”
ton’s imported horse Parsee, second favorite
at 9 to 2, went right away from the others,
the favorite, Arctic Fox (7 to 2), being a
bad second. Parsee is above the ordi-
nary. But his win was not the
easiest of the afternoon; that distinc-
tion was gained in the Oaldermeade
Handicap by the long-waited-for Im-
partial (3 to 1), who made a holy show of
his field. Impartial is a bay gelding by
Quaestor —Fairwind (dam of Headwind,
first-class sprinter in his day), and is raced
by Textile’s owner, C. G. Brown. After these
pleasing interludes there was another shock
for backers in the last race, the Cranmallan
Trial: the grey filly Cybellius, who went out
at 20 to 1, scraped home from one of
Wren’s, the filly Silent Quest (10 to 1), and
the favorite Sheafmead. Sports whose tem-
pers had become frayed by ill-success dis-
puted the judge’s decision.
* X -4= *
“Don Crew” : The gaudy vestments worn
by bookmakers in the cheaper at
Flemington some years back were usually
hired at a costume shop, and were often the
cause of a deal of trouble. A Sydney bookie
hired a glaring rigout one Cup Day, and,
arrayed like Jacob, stood up to bet on Flem-
ington Flat. He might as well have tried
to bail out the Yarra with a peanut shell.
Although he offered generous odds, no one
made a bet with him. When Tommy
had been bawling for half an hour a rat-faced
person approached, and, craning his neck,
looked into the betting bag. Apparently
satisfied, he risked two bob on the favorite.
“What’s the idea?” said-tlie bookie. “Have
you never seen the inside of a betting bag
before?” “Oh, yes,” said the punter, “but
I wanted to see how strong the bank was.
More bookies have welshed in that rigout
you’ve got on than thei'e are ways of cooking
rice in China.”
* * * *
“Aintree”: A Sydney News writer re-
marked that Captain Grosvenor, who is on
the staff of the Governor of S. Aus., is “one
of the only two aides in Australia with the
distinction of being airmen.” He is some-
thing much more remarkable. He is one of
the few heirs to a peerage who have ridden
in a Liverpool Grand National. Young
Grosvenor was considered about the best
cross-country perforhaer of liis age in Eng-
land last year, and, as his weight is right,
and likely to remain so, he should be heard
of often in first-class company when he goes
home again.
He H> * *
“Pegasus”: When are we in Australia
going to start transporting racehorses
from stable to course by aeroplane? Soma
months ago Baron Long, a leading Western
American racing man, sent liis colt, Wirt
G. Bowman, from San Diego in California
to the Tanforan track near ’Frisco, a flit
of 500 miles. A couple of hours after his
trip the nag was given a spin against the
watch over three furlongs and clocked 40sec.
How about trying the aeroplane treatment
on some'of our “dwellers"?
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
A crowd reminiscent of Darcy’s days
packed Sydney Stadium on Saturday night
for the scrap between Fidel la Barba , (Bst.
7|lb.) and Billy McAlister (Bst. but
the match proved too one-sided from the
spectators’ standpoint. The heavily-topped
Italian-American proceeded with the busi-
ness in hand like a tradesman. He
incurred the wrath of a section of
the crowd by using his head in none
too gentle fashion when in close, but
a round later the same noisy ones
cheered him to the echo for helping the
local lad to his feet. McAlister never had
a look in, and the lightning punch to the
solar plexus that dropped him for the count
in the fourth round was a dandy. There is
no doubt the victor is a great fighter, and
when matched again under more equal con-
ditions should be worth going a long way
to see. A wonderful reception was accorded
Billy Grime on his re-appearance after his
American tour.
* * * *
Punch-drunk, bleeding and battered after
11 torrid l’ounds, Arizona’s veteran wel-
terweight Jack Sparr was mercifully re-
lieved of his obligations by Val Quirk, at
Melbourne Stadium on Saturday night. Jack
Carroll proved himself a worthy welter
champion of Australia, and handed out as
severe a lacing as was possible in the time
at his disposal. The Yank used every trick
known to the business, but wilted under the
heavy battery of his eight-years-younger
adversary. Carroll came in at lOst. 4slb.
with the loser one pound heavier.
* * * *
“Thump”: Billy Grime in making exhi-
bitions of Young Harry Wills, who is far
removed from being a novice, in Panama, re-
instated himself somewhat. Panama papers,
much impressed, were puzzled over Grime’s
reverses in the U.S.A., and Wills said
the two contests were the only ones he had
had in which lie had been unable to land
a punch. Without doubt the Yanks failed to
see the right Grime; there was something
radically wrong with his form in the States,
lie may prove it at the expense of Ha Barba.
The Ins and Outs
As expected, the Sheffield match between
N.S.W. and what was to all intents and pur-
poses a second XI of Victoria, resolved itself
into a farce on the Sydney Cricket Ground.
Mediocre bowling and absolutely shocking
fielding by the Victorians permitted the
home side to run up 713 for 6 wickets. The
outstanding feature was Bradman’s 340
not out —this is the biggest score ever
made on the ground. Another colt
to reach the three-figure mark was A.
Fairfax, of St. George, who gathered
104. The country player, McCabe, batted
well for 60, and the young Randwick left-
hander, Marks, gave a delightful exhibition
for 56. Well up against it, the Victorians
went down for 265 in their first knock
(Hooker took 6-42, including the hat trick).
Following on, they had 2 down for 209
(Scaife 91 and Onyons 76 n. 0.) at the tea
adjournment on Monday.
* * * *
South Aus. was unlucky to strike White
on a rain-impaired wicket after getting the
visitors out for 392, by no means bad going.
Hobbs (75) and Sutcliffe (122) were parted
when the score was 155, but the rest of the
side had a rather poor time, with the excep-
tion of Hendren, who ran up a characteristic
90. Carlton, an ex-Victorian lefthander,
who was playing before the war, took 5 for
64, and once more emphasised the value of
an unknown bowler in matches of this kind.
The South Australian fielding and catching
was first-class. White got 7 for 66. The
only batsman able to cope with him was
Victor Richardson, who played a fighting
knock for 82 out of 178.
* * * sis
“Hamer”: The aggressive barracker with
the face like a criminal record grew indig-
nant when the man behind him said Victoria
hadn’t a hope. He turned round fiercely.
“’Ere!” he cried, “if you’re so keen on your
blokes’ chances what about putting your
money on ’em? What about a 10-quid bet?”
Ilis antagonist gazed with calm indifference
at the Long Bay dial. “Ten quid!” lie
sneered. “W’y, you went to quod the other
day because you hadn’t enough to pay a 10-
bob fine !”
* * * *
“Sowth Cowst”: Bendigo hasn’t a
monopoly of unconventional umpires (B.
23/l/’29). Port ICembla (N.S.W.) ;was
playing its neighbor, Albion Park, and
was having a rotten spin in the second inn-
ings. Port appealed against the light to
the Albion Park ump., and he turned the
application down. Then the appeal was
transferred to the Port ump., and he in-
stantly upheld it. During the barge that
followed, the Port man lifted the bails at
his end and walked off, followed by the
batsmen. Park stayed on the field with
their man till drawing time. The matter is
to be fought out in the cricket courts.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: When the itinerary of
the English Eleven was first published it
was announced that the visitors’ final match
at Perth would be against an eleven com-
posed of six Westralians and five players
from South Australia and Victoria. _ The
Westralians have now asked for Kippax
and young Bradman, and the Board of
Control is considering the matter. There
should be no trouble in obliging the Gropers.
The last Sheffield match of the N.S.W. sea-
son is to finish on March 7, and the other
game begins a fortnight later. N.S.W.,
which hasn’t hesitated to imperil the chances
of its players in the coming Test in Adelaide
by keeping them in Sydney till the last pos-
sible moment, in order to make as sure as
possible of beating Victoria, will hardly
boggle at the Westralian request, especially
as it will cost the Ma State nothing.
(Continued on. page 37.)
BOUND TO COME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The N.S.W. innings was declared closed with six
wickets down, Bradman having then scored 340
not out.”
The Old Man mused: “When first I played
the game
I never reckoned there was' cause to fret
If double figures were against my name
Before I had my applecart upset.
Twenty was quite a decent score to get,
And fifty put a halo round your brow.
It won’t be many years, I’m game to bet,
Before some hefty bloke knocks up a thou.
“Time was a hundred earned you wild
acclaim
And half a dozen in a season set
A lasting seal upon a fellow’s fame.
What years of effort and what streams
of sweat
Went to secure great Grace his coronet,
A century of centuries! And now
A hundred ev’ry day in print is met.
Who’ll be the first to wallop up a thou?
“With pitches smooth and plumb enough to
shame
The greens where bending bowlers pirou-
ette,
And never clock, since played-out Tests be-
came
The rule, to be a hindrance or a let;
With wickets ever guarded from the wet
To swell the gates and clubs with wealth
endow,
I’ll lay a sixpence to a cigarette
That soon or late some chap will make a
thou.
“A noble game,” the Old Man mused, “and
yet
It grows a bit monot’nous, you’ll allow.
God send I pass beyond the parapet
Before some hero rattles up a thou.”
N.S.W.
IDORD.


SUNSHINE
CULTIVATING
AND SEEDING
MACHINERY
THE “SUNDERCUT” STUMP JUMP
DISC CULTIVATING PLOUGH
10-disc . cuts 5 feet.
14-disc cuts 7 feet.
Unequalled for cultivating hard set fallow,
or fallow covered by heavy weed growth,
paddy-melon, stinkwort, thistles, etc.
Does splendid work in virgin Mallee soils.
Levers fitted for team or tractor pull.
SIS
u\
mm
N
ft
THE “SUNTYNE” COMBINED GRAIN
AND FERTILIZER DRILL AND
SPRING TYNE CULTIVATOR.
17 tyne, sows 8 rows, covering 5 ft.
25 tyne, sows 12 rows, covering 1\ ft.
29 tyne, sows 14 rows, covering ft.
33 tyne, sows 16 rows, covering 91ft.
41 tyne, sows 20 rows, covering 12 ft.
49 tyne, sows 24 rows, covering 14ft.
Cultivates and sows to any desired depth.
Forms a compact seed bed with thoroughly
pulverised mulch. Tractor Hitch and
Lever can be fitted when ordered.
Write for descriptive literature, prices
and particulars of extended terms.
H. V. McKAY PTY.,LTD.
Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine.
Branches and Agencies:
664 BOURKE STREET WEST, MELBOURNE.
95-97 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY.
Corner MURRAY AND KING STREETS, PERTH.
H. V. McKAY (QUEENSLAND), LTD., STANLEY STREET, SOUTH
BRISBANE.
5
'"'l-
mmxvi
tr«cy
'iZfCp '■■ y ; y*< »V'-' ».'■ ■'*•
•.i*■■• ‘
II
.i*- k.
Look here—a
perfectly fitting
Tweed Suit
for
A Sale Snap !
THREE piece Sac
Suits for men,
all Wool Aust-
ralian Tweeds, newest
patterns in smart
Greys, scientific grad-
ing of sizes ensures
perfect fitting gar-
ments. Coat, Vest and
i
&
1
it m
m
\m
• i *:i i :
suit
111 M»
fjlfj
.-Hi 5
C<s».
MBS
i i
Trousers ready to wear. Supreme value at
the usual price 59/6 to SALE PRICE
53/6
Thousands of Bargains
Usually SALE PRICE
63/-
Two piece Sports Suits for men. Plain
or fancy effect Tweeds
54/9
25/-
Men’s pure fur Felt Hats, latest popular
colours in “ Snap Brim ” shape .. ~
17/6
n I /
jO
Men’s Black Box Calf boots, or shoes,
popular square toe shape.. .. .. .. ..
ey% /
<6<l/-
q f/r
0/0
Men’s striped Ceylonette Pyjamas
sizes S.M., Men’s and O.S
in r* f\
D/1U
45/-
Slazenger’s “Victory” Tennis Racquets,
rent ash frame, A.l. quality gut ..
Complete with free four screw press.
r\rj is*
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR. Write for the
big Sale book —Free ! Kindly address all your letters
to Desk R
MURDOCH^
In Pairk Stveet Ltd. Sydney
A The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store ”
THE WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
it is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price - - ■ 3d.


H
8188
■ ■■
LI
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
a
you use a
-AUli
SAFETY
RAZOR
BLADE
Made of a special steel with extra
keen edges, being specially suited
for stiff beardp.
KIRBY.BEARD &C* Ud
► @ 0| & e
pn <0 >8 QBV39 A9BIX
K I EB Y-
B K A I* 1)
RAZORS
give full, protection without ob-
structing the cutting edges. Kasy
to clean and require no adjustment.
Kirby, Heard & Co., Ltd., Ravenhurst Works, Birming-
ham, England. Also London, Redditch and Paris.
Australian Agent: H. E. UTTLEY.
Margaret House, 282 George Street, Sydney.
Use a "BEARD"to shave a beard
DON’T FEAR PAIN
AFTER EATING
Tain after eating is only serious if you
neglect it or persist in wrong treatment.
Don’t take anti-acids or bismuthated mag-
nesia—get relief quickly and take a real step
to total banishment of the disorder by taking
Para-Pepsin. This maintains the correct
balance of healthy stomach acidity, prevents
excess acid, and stops pain. Nothing harsh;
nothing harmful; forms no habit. Para-
Pepsin is the remedy a doctor would recom-
mend —your chemist sells it, at trifling cost.
CARDS & BRIDGE SCORER
RARE AND UNIQUE BARGAIN.
Two superior finished Packs of Cards. One
“ASHES OF HOSES,” one “ASHES OF
VIOLETS,” and one De-luxe Bridge Scoring
Board. Post Free. 4/- the Set.
BOURJOIS ET CIE,
177-79 Clarence Street, Sydney.
FOR ALL SPORT
BUY
THE SPORTING GLOBE
The Leading Australian Authority with the largest
staff of Sporting Experts and Special Representatives
in all States. The staff includes: —
“MUSKET” The Turf
“BAIL” Cricket
W. S. SHARLAND Football
PAT O’HARA WOOD Tennis
J. J. MAHER Cycling
,T. M. DILLON Golf
A. L. DOBBIE Rowing
TOM MORLEY Coursing
MAURIE COLLINS Bowls
H. C. BROOKE Yachting
New South Wales edition available
every Thursday, price 3d.
Information Wanted.
fAF the whereabouts of JOHN PATRICK
W and ELLEN LACY (or Lacey), natives
of Tralee, Co. Kerry, Ireland. Last heard
from about 34 years ago in Sydney, N.S.W.
Patrick had one son—John Lacy. Michael
had three daughters and one son, named
respectively Ellen, Catherine, Mary and
John. Any information will be thankfully
received by
JOHN SULLIVAN,
c/o D. F. O’CONNOR,
4512 Lowe Avenue,
Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Australian papers please copy.
*WMCff£5nR
TRADE MARK
OKE **£s,.
Keep your barrel clean and vT
rustless by shooting Winchester .22 Staynless cartridges..
All the famous Winchester uniformity, dependability and
accuracy plus positive protection from rusting and pitting.
In Lesmok powder insist on Winchester .22 Lestayn cart-
ridges (Lesmok powder with non-corrosive priming) which give
maximum protection from rusting and pitting.
Demand them by name every time. Look for the “H”
stamped on the head.
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
New Haven Conn, U. S. A.
mmm
mm
For tale by dealers everywhere
m
mm
xsT^i
iff
MS.
SMOK)
•Hr
m
£55
Learn to
DRAW!
IT GIVES PLEASURE
AND BRINGS PROFIT.
You can learn to make effective
original drawings in a short period
under the
r ',
WESTON POSTAL COURSE OF DRAWING
Mr. HARRY .7. WESTON, the well-known Commercial Artist, conducts this School
personally, and every Student receives personal tuition.
Big salaries await successful students in the field of Art! Why not learn all about
this profitable hobby?
Take the first step to-day. Send your name and address for Mr. Weston’s booklet
entitled “THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN,’’which tells all about the course, fees, etc.,
and gives examples of the lessons.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING
77 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond Street, Sydney.
The Ins and Outs
“Oval”: The Test this week will be Adel-
aide's 11th —seven won and three lost, so far.
The first was in 1884; the Cricket Asso-
ciation of S.A. had to pay each side £450,
and made a loss. Palmer took 5 for 31,
and Percy McDonnell made 124 and 83
(run out) ; but England won by 8 wickets
mainly through the bowling of Bates arid
Peel. The last time Australia lost in
Adelaide was in 1912; but there was a
sporting 11-run finish to the last match
against Gilligan’s team.
$ $ $ $
“Shrewsbury” : W. It. Hammond, the bril-
liant English batsman, has seen more of
the world than most professional cricketers.
Born in Kent, he was taken to China at an
early age, and at 8 years old was playing
cricket at Malta. In 1914, he was sent to
Cirencester (pronounced “Cissiter”) Gram-
mar School, a renowned old Gloucestershire
foundation, and was there until 1920. He
was given a trial for the county after leaving
school at 17, but though he did nothing
much he made such an impression that Kent
asked him to play for that county on his
birth qualification. He was at this time an
amateur. After two years’ absence from
cricket he came into the Gloucester county
eleven as a professional in 1922, and since
then, in spite of a season’s lie off due to a
serious illness, has never looked back.
* * * >l=
“Aigburth”: Cricketers who have reason
to regret the days when their beards were
black will hear with genuine regret of the
serious illness in England of Maurice Read,
one of the stalwarts of Surrey, England and
the Players in the years that the locusts
have eaten. His initials were J.M., but he
was always given the label of his second
name to distinguish him from his amateur
contemporary of the same county, W. W.
Read, who was only second as a batsman to
“W.G.” when in his heydey in the 1880’s.
Like George TJlyett, Lolimann find others,
Maurice was one or a type of professional
batsmen unknown in these play-for-keeps
days, a brilliant and . stylish hitter. He first
saw Australia with Alfred Shaw’s 1884-85
team, and returned in 1880-87. In 15 Test
C. O. NICHOLLS, the young Windsor
farmer, who is now filling Jack Gregory’s
shoes as the N.S.W. fast bowler.
innings he averaged 18.62 with the bat, his
highest score being 57, while he was a mag-
nificent outfield. He entered on his 70th
year last week.
' * * * *
“Long Stop”: The Victorian cricket heads
cannot be accused of want of sportsmanship
in the matter of R. H. Bettington’s inclusion
in the N.S.W. team against their own side.
The N.S.W. authorities wrote pointing out
that as the ship Bettington was in on his
arrival from England entered “this State’s
waters” on October 25. he was obviously
eligible to play for N.S.W. in the match
commencing in Sydney on January 24. he
having thus fulfilled the three months’ resi-
dental qualification. The Victorians didn’t
even inquire when N.S.W. acquired dominion
over “waters” which are under the aegis of
the Commonwealth. It just told its neigh-
bors to go ahead and play Bettington or
not, as they dashed well pleased.
* * * *
“Earbiter”: For reasons which are appa-
rent to no one but themselves, the N.S.W.
cricket heads persist in nursing a smoulder-
ing feud with the Board of Control, which
never appears to have done them any harm.
The feeling has been unusually rancorous
of late, so there was a flavor of irony in the
request received by the State body from the
board the other day for £l5O, its quota of
£650 which the board was raising because it
was broke to the wide. To have to continue
in subservience to a loathed superior is try-
ing enough. To have one’s lug chewed by the
said overlord in addition, even though the
“touch” has official sanction, must be a
sorrow’s crown of sorrow.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: With the fourth Test
pending in Adelaide, the Victorians dropped
their Test-match certainties from the team
to play in the Sheffield match in Sydney,
and asserted that there was an understand-
ing that N.S.W. would do the same. Ma
State lay low until the last moment, and
then announced that all the selections for the
Test, save Oldfield and Kippax, who remained
in Adelaide, would figure in the N.S.W. team
against the visitors, though this would mean
their arrival in Adelaide only a few hours
before the match began. So certain were
the selected Welshmen that they would not
be called on for the match in Sydney that
they made arrangements with the Victorian
authorities to book their berths through to
Adelaide for a date which would have pre-
vented them playing on the S.C.G. Ma is
an habitual nark in sporting matters.
* * * *
“Percy P.”: A spare pair of strides and
cricketing boots for one of its star batsmen
is part of the equipment of a Sydney grade
team. It had been without his services, with
disastrous results, on a couple of occasions
before it was discovered that the a.w.l. was
due to a termagant spouse, who made a
practice of locking up the star's cricket togs
as a punishment for Friday-night transgres-
sions. Now' the lady is permitted to enjoy
her illusory triumph, whilst the team, which
acts as collective nurse to the infant with
which the offender is burdened on penalty
occasions, cheers him as he pastes the bowl-
ing.
Racquet and Bawl
“Shrewsbury”: Tennis may be a danger-
ous game (B. 23/1/’29), but the casualty
lists don’t bear out the theory. American
Lawn Tennis has recently given a list of
American champions since 18S1. R. D.
Sears, who was on top that year, is alive and
hearty, as are 14 others of the 18 wdio have
won the title. Only three outlanders have
taken the event, these being the late H. L.
Doherty, Jean Lacoste and Henri Cochet.
In addition to Doherty, who won in 1903,
It. I). Wrenn (1893) and W. A. Darned
(1901) have passed over.
* # * *
The Australian tennis championships in
Adelaide saw two of the finals close on Satur-
day, when Moon and Daphne Akhurst beat
Crawford and Miss Cox in the mixed doubles
and W. B. Walker and Cropper, of N.S.W.,
won the junior doubles from Sweating and
McCracken, of Victoria. Crawford was early
eliminated from the singles by Schlesinger,
and on Saturday the Victorian, who is play-
ing wonderful tennis, did the same for Hop-
man in the semi-final; he qualified to meet
the Englishman Gregory, who outed Queens-
lander Moon in the other semi-final, in the
deciding round.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Toolburra” : Queensland golf should bene-
fit by the transfer of that brilliant profes-
sional H. R. Sinclair from N.S.W. to War-
wick. As an, amateur, Sinclair was
in wonderful form in 1925, when he won
the Australian, N.S.W. and Queensland
championships, and the Queensland open
title in addition. With Nigel Smith, of
N.S.W., he also collected the Queensland
foursomes championship. In a subsequent
visit to Britain lie failed to show his best
form in the big events, and on his return to
Australia took up the professional side of
the game.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: That 290 yards’ drive
on the flat without helping wind by R. H.
'Bettington (B. 23/l/’29) is good going, but
he is an exceptionally big and hefty lad. In
11. C. Bulte, of Ballarat, Victoria boasts one
of the longest drivers in Australia. He is
about sft. sin. in height and weighs about
eight stone, but he habitually drives from
225 to 270 yards off the tee. As a matter
of fact, correct timing, swing and follow
through are the fundamentals of long
driving. Brawn, however well applied, has
little to do with it.
* * * *
“Iconoclast”: The unsophisticated would
imagine that the risks in golf were negli-
gible, apart from an occasional opportunity
for bursting a blood-vessel in a bunker or
contracting alcoholic dementia at the Nine-
teenth. Yet I have just perused a special
policy issued by an Australian insurance co.
which covers accidents while playing, ranging
from death to temporary disablement; fire
and burglary risks on clubs, clothing, etc.,
in any club-house; legal liability to other
parties injured at golf by a policy-holder,
and the value or cost of clubs broken in
play. In my opinion, the co. should insist
on the applicant for a policy being examined
in proficiency by a professional, on the lines
of medical examination in life insurance,
before taking this last risk.
* * * #
“Brassey”: What is claimed as a world’s
record for 72 holes has been put up in
America by “Wild Bill” Mehlorn, who re-
turned a card of 271 —137 for the first 36
holes and 134 for the second lot. It was
a great performance, but it is impossible
to apply the “record” standard to such a
game as golf, where conditions vary so
tremendously on every course, and are so
influenced by conditions of weather and a
dozen other contingencies. Par for the 18-
hole course at El Paso, where the feat was
performed, is 72. which would make the per-
formance 17 under par for the four rounds.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Walter Hagen has
launched yet another threat of invading
Australia. A communique from Joe Kirk-
wood, who has not long returned to the
land of the dahlar, intimates this, with the
usual proviso that “inducements” must be
“satisfactory.” Perhaps some of the wealthy
enthusiasts who affect the game will come
forward with a guarantee —perhaps, again,
they won’t, as in the past. If all goes
well, how'ever, Walter and Joe propose sail-
ing next September, returning, after a tour
of Maonland and Australia, in December.
* * # *
“Cleek”: Australian golf-club officials,
with their mostly free-for-all golf courses,
must sigh when they reflect on the financial
methods of their American brethren. In
America the leading courses are invariably
enclosed, and for the big tournaments and
championships the charge is two dollars
(Bs. 4d.) a day. No wonder the prizes at the
great professional tournaments run. into
thousands of pounds, and that America is
becoming the professional golfer’s Mecca.
* * * *
“Ego”: The recent success of Tommy
Armour (described in the cable as a leading
American professional) in one of the big
TJ.S. tournaments recalls the fact that
he was once a crack Scots amateur. That
again is a reminder that many of the profes-
sionals figuring at the top of the American
golf tree are Scotsmen. For instance, there
are Jick Hutchison from St. Andrews,
Mac Smith and his brothers from Carnoustie,
Willie Macfarlane from Aberdeen, and Bobby
Cruickshank and Tommy Armour, old rivals
from Edinburgh. All of them are winners
of various championships, and the list in-
cludes only the big guns, as there are liter-
ally hundreds of pros, and potential pros,
leaving Scotland each year for Gahd’s own
country and the dollars. The invasion is,
no doubt, a strong reason for the advance
of the game in America.
(Continued on page 39.)


I \v
Mim
m
"nil
m
i
WA
m,
/
H
<<- ■
r '->
I
m
I
m
Sr
3g£
§ >-
M
“
ITJ?
I
m
i
L :V >
Is^
V
HARDT'S
SPA RKILIJVG


BRITISH
ŵ
BRITISH
BALL & ROLLER
BEARINGS
RANSOME & MARLES BEARING CO., LTD. (ENG-
LAND), has always produced only one quality
bearing—the best.
These British Bearings are used by more than 80%
of British Motor-Car Manufacturers.
R. & M. Ball and Roller Bearings are made of the
finest materials obtainable, with the same care and
precision as the works of a fine watch, and are guar-
anteed against defects in material and workmanship.
Made in 300 types and over 3000 sizes to fit British,
American and Continental Cars.
J&
Exclusive Commonwealth Agents and
Distributors ;
GARDNER, WAERN 8 CO. PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE: 481 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY: 225 Clarence Street.
NEWCASTLE: Hunter Street West.
South Australian Agents: ADELAIDE HARD-
WARE CO., LTD., Flinders St., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: W. Sc G. GENDERS PTY.,
LTD., Hobart and Launceston.
Queensland Agents: EVANS, DEAKIN h CO..
LTD., Brisbane and Townsville.
West Australian Agents: ( Automotive)
COVENTRY MOTOR CO., LTD., Perth
: I
/ m
ẁ
ẃ
HaWip^^
WB will improve
if you continue to use.the
Scientifically Tested, Hard
Hitting, Long Range, Low
Recoil
ELEY - KYNOCH
All-British CARTRIDGES
281
They Kill where others
fail
iNOBEu
COWBOY SADDLERY OUTFITS.
1M
THE
TEXAS
RANGER
SADDLE,
£l3/13/-
No. 73. LEATHER
CHAPS, as illustrated,
with Nickel Conchas
and Fringe, 91/-. With-
out Conchas, 857-
FANCY STUDDED
BRIDLE, with Gold
Color Cowboy Bit with
Nickel Horse-head, 76/-
Fancy Breastplate to match .... 75/-
Write for Catalogue of our Australian
and Texas Saddlery.
WALTHER g STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ẅ
Car and Cycle
“Disc Clutch”: The front-wheel drive in
motor-cars is not such a last-minute develop-
ment as some of the press experts try to
make out. A French car, the Tracta, has
been on the market for some years, and
another Frenchman is the new Chaigne-au-
Brasier; and there is a front-drive Bucciali.
Germany boasts the Selve Selecta, and the
American Marmon Co. has built some front-
drive racers, as did the Italian Itala factory.
For some reason these last were never given
a gallop in track events.
* * * *
“O.II.V.”: About the speediest car yet
imported to the Commonwealth—Segrave’s
Sunbeam, of course, excepted—is a front-
drive supercharged Alvis belonging to Harry
Taylor, of Sydney. Clutch, fly-wheel, gear-
box and differential are perched between the
engine and the front axle, which takes the
drive. There’s no rear axle. The advan-
tages of such construction from a speed point
of view are a considerable saving of weight
and greater stability on corners. Also, all
the mechanism is under the bonnet, where
it can be easily got at. This Alvis car is
described by its British makers as a 12-50
h.p. model. It has four cylinders of 68mm.
bore and 103 mm. stroke, the capacity being
1496ce. On R.A.C. rating the h.p. is 11.4,
but as the car is designed to attain a speed
of 120 m.p.h.—the same motor has given
300 m.p.h. without supercharging—it must
develop close on 50 h.p. at top speed, a
wonderful output for a comparatively small
motor.
* * * *
“Garry”: The factors that govern power
delivered by a motor are the number and
cubic capacity of the cylinders and the speed
at which the crankshaft revolves, and it
seems time that the world decided upon a
universal definition of what constitutes a
horse-power. The best-known formula, that
of the Royal Automobile Club, takes no cog-
nisance of stroke-length on engine-speed, and
its adoption for taxation purposes in Britain
has fostered the design of cylinders of a
length much in excess of diameter—a develop-
ment of doubtful engineering value. There
are formula? which take into account the
three essential factors, but they have little
significance for the motoring world at large,
with the result that confusion reigns. What
an American maker would catalogue as a
40-h.p. motor is termed in France a two-
litre, and by R.A.C. reckoning might be
BILLY GRIME, the Riverina feather-
weight. He has returned under engage-
ment to Stadiums, Ltd., after a tour
of the U.S.A.
rated as low as 12 h.p, The discrepancy is
all to the advantage of the Americans, since
it helps to conceal the fact that a small,
high-speed motor of British or Continental
make, of low official rating, may be able to
develop more power than a slow-running
American motor of twice its size and weight.
* * * #
“Whizz”: If Ralph de Palma, the
American speed motorist, has his way, the
next attempt on the world’s speed record
at Daytona Beach will be something out of
the ordinary. He is to represent America
in the Triplex in which Ray Iveech put up
the existing record of 207 m.p.h., and wants
the American Racing Board to lay out two
tracks side by side on the beach, so that
the cars will actually race against each
other as well as against the watch. There
is room for two courses, and the idea is
catching on in America. The Triplex has
been fitted with three new engines, and has
been unofficially timed to do 238 m.p.h.
Segrave aims at 240, so, if it comes off, the
match should be a sprint worth watching,
even if a funeral or two has to be attended
after.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: The first round of the
dispute between Jack Standen and the Olym-
pic Council over the ex-amateur cyclist’s
repudiation of his bond not to turn profes-
sional within a certain period has ended in
favor of the council. On being given the
facts of the case, the Union Cycliste Inter-
nationale, which controls all classes of cycling
save in America, has disqualified Stan-
den for 16 months. He is now faced with
the bitter alternatives of standing down or
parting up, though he has the right of appeal.
* * * *
“John B.”: They’re at it again, smashing
the trans-American record. This time a
woman, Mrs. Lavia M. "Willard, of New
York, has driven a car over the 3365 miles
between Los Angeles and N’Yark in 4 days
8 hours 47 minutes. She held the previous
record of 5 days 4 hours 26 minutes, estab-
lished. in August. Her Chicago-New York
dash in .July occupied 22 hours 48 minutes,
winning a non-stop contest organised by the
New York Women’s Automobile Club.' Is
there any faster lady about?
* * * *
“Carbon”: What is claimed as a record
run for a working internal combustion
engine has recently been put up by a
Jupiter M IV fitted in one of the D.H. 50’s
imployed by Qantas, of Queensland. In
nine months the* engine flew the ’plane
25,472 miles, the running time totalling 348
hours 55 min., during which the average
speed was 89 m.p.h. Replacements during
this period cost under fl, and the engine was
running perfectly when an overhaul was
decided on.
Miscellaneous Sporting
R. C. (“Rudy”) Lehmann, whose death
in London has just been recorded, was one
of the greatest oarsmen of his time, and as
a coach and writer on rowing made a great
impression on the rowing men of his genera-
tion in Britain and America. He learned
his rowing at Highgate School, a London
institution which has turned out many fine
oarsmen, and at Cambridge, where he became
an oracle on the subject, passing on later
to Harvard (U.S.A.) to spread the light in
Eastern America. A many-sided man, he
was a writer of renown and a member of
Punch staff for close on 30 years.
* * :|: *
“Harold Hardupp” : The Oxford boat for
the next race against Cambridge will have a
remarkable amount of Australian weight in it.
R. N. McCulloch, who was N.S.W. Rhodes
scholar for 1920, and stroked the victorious
Sydney Uni. crew at Hobart that year, is
selected for No. 2; No. 3is Hurtle Morpliett,
of Adelaide and Geelong; No. ti is the
Tasmanian, Ingles. The likely first emer-
gency is Broomfield, of Sydney. . He, like
McCulloch, was a member of the Sydney
crew at Hobart in 1926.
* * * *
“Loom”: It does not seem, after all, that
Australia’s great amateur sculler Bobby
Pearce will be forced into professionalism
for lack of congenial employment. A. C.
Ingham and Co., the Sydney timber
merchants, have offered Pearce a job as a
traveller. In these days, when such a
fuss is being made about finding billets in
journalism and in other occupations for Aus-
tralian cricketers, it seems curious that some
provision of the sort could not be made for
an athlete who has a world-wide reputation.
The average Test-match player is unknown
outside the Empire.
* * * *
“R.G.N.C.”: Surely Edward Cooke, re-
ported by cable as having hoaxed South
Africa twice with alleged Cape-to-Cairo
athletic feats, must be the greatest non-
walker who ever essayed world-walks. For
several years he has made the announcement
of intention to walk some illimitable distance
his vocation, as has been the case in South
Africa. Each time a section of the stunt
Press has adopted him, given him publicity
and pictures, and started him on his way.
Then, silence —and some months later a
new announcement that Edward Cooke is
about to start on another illimitable walk.
One of his starts was from Melbourne to
Darwin, with companions, but the com-
panions came back early in the journey.
* * * *
“Billy th’ Goose”: Goat-racin' is goin’ up
ther pole ’cause I ain’t bin at ’eadquarters to
keep things straight. Er cuppler munce
ergo I tipped yer orf erbout er ring-in at
Brisbin’, and now, starve ther crows, ’ere’s
the oil erbout ernuther one come fr’m
Rocky, w’ich is as much uv er woodener as
ter ’ear that ther favorite ’ad bin pulled at
Flemin’ton ther firs’ Toosday in November.
Ther kid as worked ther joke rings in
Sapilly, one uv ther w.f.a. chamneens wot
we saw in Sydnee lars’ year. ’E tells ther
kermittee ther goat's er maiden, ’n that ’e
run it down in ther mountins outside Rocky.
Ther goat wins, er course, and it wuz on’y
ther yelps fr'm ther Toms that wakes ther
stipes up. Yeh, it’s time 1 wuz back, er
goat-racin’ ’ll get down ter the level uv ther
dorgs, er even ther picnic race meetin’s.
* * * *
This year’s ocean yacht race between the
Victorian representative, Eun-na-Mara, and
Vanessa (N.S.W.) was sailed outside Syd-
ney Heads ; Vanessa, a Marconi-rigged 8.14
metres craft, won the three first events
off the reel, thus dispensing with the
necessity for sailing the other two pro-
vided for under the conditions. Eun-
na-Mara, a 10.02 metres boat originally hail-
ing from Sydney, had to give her opponent a
time allowance of 34min. 34sec., and found
the task too heavy. The Victorian was
generally expected to excel in windward work,
especially in a blow, but the contrary proved
the case. Vanessa, launched only a few weeks
ago to meet the challenger, proved the better
boat at all points, and as the three races were
sailed in light, strong and fresh winds respec-
tively the trial was a convincing one, though
the loss of the jib-halliard in the second
caused the Victorian boat to finish minus
one of her for’ard cloths. The result means
that the Victorians will once more have to
challenge, and come to Sydney to fight it out.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: As The Bulletin prophesied
some time ago, outboard motor-boating has
had to incur the attention of the traffic cop.
In the hands of inexperienced youths, w T hose
road courtesy is as rudimentary as their
knowledge of nautical rules, these craft,
which can get up to 35 miles an hour within
a few lengths, have made the Yarra a terror
to canoeists and Y.W.C.A. girls out for a
quiet row, while eight-oar rowing has be-
come a dangerous sport. As some sort of
check on the exuberance of its devotees,
the Board of Works proposes to frame regu-
lations governing the sport and to compel
the boats to be registered. Licenses for
drivers might help.
* * * *
“Backwoodsman”: The date fixed by the
Australian Bowling Council for the new
standard bowl to come into operation, March
1, is drawing near, but a surprisingly small
number of bowlers have forwarded their
woods to the official tester. The reason seems
to be that they are waiting for the meeting
of the council, which is listed for an early
date. The great majority of the Victorian
bowlers have been raising a mighty hulla-
baloo in the endeavor to induce the council
to increase the amount of bias ordained for
the new master bowl.
* * * *
Arne Borg created another of his innumer-
able records at Manly (N.S.W.) baths when
he swam the mile in 21min. 6 4-ssec. This
breaks his own world’s record of 21min.
46 2-ssec., put up in Philadelphia in 1926.
He had previously established an Australian
record of 21min. 34sec., but this is not in
the books.


w
__ To Mark
TnAM tslAlf Linen
Indispensable to every Household.
CASH’S NAMES* are destinciive,
yec near fadeless and durable^
< 's&3 r W2tluun&-
Sold by all
Best Drapers
Actual SitCj Style No. 6
Prices:
I2dz, 7/6.
6dz,5'6.
3dz, 3/6
"A feivsUlches and they're on,'
Write for Name Style Circular to
3. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt St., Richmond, Melb
Gisf©
Washing RIBBONS
FOR LINGERIE:
ASNEW AFTER REPEATED WASHING"
SOLO BY LEADING DRAPERS
FRANCE
MARTE
The only place in the world that
makes Cognac Brandy is the
Cognac district of France.
MLartell’s comes from Cognac only.
Martell’s for Age and Quality.
MARTELLS
BRANDY
Monday to Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/6.
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’Hote Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 15/-, or
a la carte, minimum, 15/-
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Jack Woods’ Ambassadors Dance
Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
Melbourne
Chatter
White gloves were brought forth and
anointed with petrol last week for a some-
what unexpected evening reception at Federal
Government House. It was a drawing-room
affair that spread over the adjoining lawn,
where electric /lights festooned from the
central fountain revealed oleanders and hy-
drangeas all agrowing and ablowing. Indoors,
groupings of feathery ferns and wine-colored
coleus garnished the big room. An orchestra
—not one of the jazz variety—played in the
hall. The 300 guests were assembled
for some time before their Exes, appeared,
Lady Stonehaven waving a rose-bud feather
fan over a trained robe of oyster-grey satin
sprinkled with small cameos of crystal and
olivines. A wisp of rare lace fell from one
shoulder. The v.-r. hands were extended in
greeting as the guests filed past headed by
Irvine, C.J., and his lady, she in a mauve
gown that had glint of bronze beads.
The legal world was well represented.
Justice Isaacs was there with his lady, she
in rose and gold brocade and gold lace; also
Leo Cussen, J. and his wife, and the judicial
Macfarlans. Rear-Admiral Napier was accom-
panied by Mrs. Napier, whose periwinkle-
blue covering was combined with silver
tissue. Mayor and Mayoress Luxton were
also of the company, she wearing a dahlia-
red georgette frock with an uneven hemline.
Stephen Morell and his lady came from the
seaside for the happening. Mrs. Cass, who
was with her Colonel, was outstanding in
emerald-green moire, with a sash train
attached to a large bow. The brush-and-
palette brigade was represented by John
Longstaff and H. S. Power, Mrs. Power’s
apparel of ficelle lace being twined with
coral-pink georgette about the hipline. The
Uni. quota included Prof. Ernest Scott and
Mrs. Scott, the lady in blue, covered all
over with sparkling beads and stray pink
roses; the Gunns and the Osbornes.
Politics contributed the Fred Egglestons,
she in black and pink lace and gold beads.
Phyllis Duckham, who bound her curls with
a blue riband, wore a peacock-flared frock of
ivory s’atin. Canon and Mrs. Snodgrass,
Rev. Dr. Law, the Consul for France and
Madame Turck, Dr. and Mrs. Douglas
Stevens, the Mackey lady and jMr. and Mrs.
W. P. Devereux were others who made
obeisance to vice-royalty.
Wearing chiffon, black, white and blue in
flowered design, and a small close-clinging
black felt hat, Lady Stonehaven presided
over the annual business meeting of the Red
Cross in Government House ballroom.
O’Morrice Williams, the chairman, who has
recently returned from a 12-months’ Euro-
pean tour, was welcomed home. With Lady
Novar he shared the representation of Aus-
tralia at the Red Cross Conference at The
Hague in October. Sincere regret was ex-
pressed concerning the resignation of the
treasurer, knight Edward Miller, who has
managed the finances since the establishment
of the organisation in this State. H. C.
Skeet, who has taken over the purse, was
introduced and thanked by the v.-r. lady.
A vote of thanks to Lady Novar was pro-
posed by the Miller lady, who wore an arrest-
ing gown of black taffeta adorned with open
embroidery, through which was glimpsed
enamel green. Mr. Williams thanked her
Ex., who led the way to the big dining-room,
where there were ices and tea.
Five hundred members of the Friendly
Union of Soldiers’ Wives and Mothers. 240
members of the Friendly Union of Sailors’
Wives and Mothers, 140 lads looked after by
the Legacy League, and several convalescent
and cot cases from Caulfield Military Hos-
pital and the Anzac Hostel assembled at
Federal Government House one afternoon last
week for the annual party. The children
had no dull moments, for the lawn was full
of attractions, including a merry-go-round,
a Punch and Judy show, Aunt Sally and
clowns. Mrs. Potts, the president, Captain
Peters and Dr. Mark Gardner, of the Legacy
League, were amusement directors, and
arranged races and other sports for the
kiddies. Mothers and relatives strolled about
the garden or sat in the shade listening to
the band, later finding a substantial four
o’clock spread in the ballroom, where the
tea-urns emulated the widow’s cruse —the
weather was hot and thirsts were well-nigh
unquenchable. His Ex. and Lady Stone-
haven, he in summer suit of Assam silk,
shook hands with most of the grown-ups, who
were introduced by Mrs. N. Musther, hon.
sec. of the F.U. of Soldiers’ Wives and
Mothers. Her Ex. looked cool in bright blue
georgette touched up with white and black,
allied to a white ballibuntal straw hat.
Rear-Admiral Napier's wife, wffio is presi-
dent of the Union of Sailors’ relations, chose
floral patterned black chiffon with black mil-
linery. Mrs. Musther topped a grey gown
with a black hat, and Mrs. H. James, who
is a member of the Council, cheered a black
frock with a red hat.
The Moonee Valley Racing Club’s meeting
on Saturday was not a very dressy turnout,
the weather being a little uncertain in its
temper, but the sulky-looking clouds did not
burst into tears, and the outing, for those
who refrained from backing the favorites, was
a very pleasant one. The luncheon party,
which is a feature of all Valley fixtures, was
a not-too-formal gathering. The toast of the
King, proposed by chairman Alister Clark,
was drunk in champagne, but in silence,
since the monarch’s health at present isn’t
a matter for rowdy rejoicings. Choice tuber-
begonias and gladioli garnished the damask.
The committee tables accommodated a full
complement of guests. Hon. treas. W. Rogers
Thomson and Mrs. Thomson had around
them Mrs. Ben Chaffey, whose black satin
gown had embroidery of gleaming beads;
Miss Macpherson and Miss Bell (a nieee of
Mrs. Chaffey). Mrs. A. Crozier was a
member of a party that included Kathleen
and Roger R. Thomson, and some prominent
legal lights. In other groups were Com-
mander and Mrs. Ireland, she in a cool-
looking green and white silk frock; Dr. and
Mrs. J. Merrillees: Mrs. Merrillees’s sister,
Mrs. Hole, from Adelaide, who wore a smart
suit of mushroom hue with a Bangkok hat
of darker tone ; and Mrs. A. F. Carey and
her daughter Dorothy, on holiday from their
home in Boston (U.S.A.). Among Queens-
land visitors were Mrs. Moody, who flew
with her pilot-husband from the northern
State; George Martin, of Baneeda, who made
the trip by motor-car; and Mrs. ,T. O’Shan-
nasy, of Charlevillc, who was with Mrs. A.
McCracken. The A. R. Lcmprieres, she
wearing black with a shady ballibuntal hat;
Colonel and Mrs. Rupert Downes, and the
vice-chairman, J. B. McArthur, and Mrs.
McArthur also watched the racing.
The jumper mode of sports suits promises
to be again in vogue this autumn, and
advance models are of even more elaborate
make than was the case last season. For
instance, a Shetland wool jumper worked
in a lace design tops a pleated skirt of
satin-faced jersey cloth of the same color.
A mixed suit has a skirt of black cloth
allied to a knitted pull-over of mole hue
bordered with open-work embroidery. Added
are some stray leaves in applique of black
patent-leather. Sports attire on the two-
piece plan, especially if of winter-weight
materials, or knitted, makes very safe buy-
ing at the present sales, at which some
bargains are to be had.
Isobel Carter, pictured here by a Dickin-
son-Monteath camera, is a very deter-
mined young
lady. Finding,
on the eve of
sitting for the
piano exam,
for the W.
J. Clarke
scholarship at
the Uni. Con.
that she was
over the age-
limit for
piano stu-
dents. she
switched over
on to her sec-
ond instrument,
the clarinet,
and won the
s c h o 1 arshin.
She is first and
foremost, how-
ever, a pianist,
a pupil of
Edward Goll,
and she will go to the Cold Country early in
the year to study at the Royal College of
-Music, London, the scholarship carrying
with it three years’ free tuition.
The Florentine interior of the Comedy
Theatre has become a setting for swine.
Certainly they are nice white ones that look
as if they had been well laundered, and they
have been lent by a bacon-curing firm of
impeccable respectability and decorum. They
are part of the props, of an American comedy
which deals with hawgs and aahlars, and
they emit grunts and squeal's which may,
or may not, be elicited by the exotic rococo-
osity (if there isn’t such a word there should
be) of their new surroundings. A crowded
house sat breathless as the curtain rose and
displayed the dear creatures disporting them-
selves in the light of a couple of lanterns
in a stage setting that depicted the mystic
hour of greater darkness that precedes the
dawn. With beautiful simplicity the play
has been called “Pigs,” and the Firm stands
sponsor for the whole outfit. Ruth Nugent,
a very youthful-looking leading lady with
auburn hair, brightens up the farm with a
girlish but very citified frock of pale green
organdie muslin, and Bertha Ricardo, a
black-haired lass, dashes around in a yellow
sports jumper, a pleated cream silk skirt and
the usual etceteras —it’s necessary to add
that last bit in these bare-legged days.
The audience liked the show, and many
pounds of vegetation were handed over the
footlights at the final curtain —but not for
the pigs. In the first-night audience were
pigs. In the first-night audience were
General Monash, Miss Lizette Bentwitch, the
Phil Finkelsteins, Mrs. Edith Johns, the
W. E. Bates, Mrs. E. Buller Allan and the
Ivan Gutmanns.
Lorna Helms, who lately severed connec-
tion with “The Desert Song” co., appeared
in the role of bride at Christ Church, South
Yarra, on Thursday. Squadron-Leader T. F.
W. Thompson, R.A.F., on loan to local head-
quarters, was the bridegroom, and Squadron-
leader Grahame Dawson acted in loco
parentis . The bright little actress, third
d a u g h ter of
the late Cap-
tain and Mrs.
P. T. Helms,
of S,ydn e y,
dressed the
part in white
spotted silk
net with many
flounces of ir-
regular line
attached to a
tight bodice
with long
sleeves. Some
rare old lace
did duty as
veil and train,
and a bouquet
of pink and
white water
lilies was car-
ried. Five at-
tending maids,
two of them
the bride’s sisters, were arrayed in pink
georgette with crin. hats to match, and
carried sheafs of delphiniums. Naiada, the
wee daughter of Squadron-Leader and Mrs.
iSmart, divided her interest between the
bride’s train and a Lend doll. The bonds
were welded by the bride’s cousin, Padre
A. R. Mace. The bridegroom’s brother
officers provided an arch of steel for the
newly-wed, and Squadron-leader Peter
Drummond, who is due to marry Lalla
Drake Brockman in the near future, fami-
liarised himself with the ceremony in the
capacity of best man. Mrs. Grahame Daw-
son, in pale green and beige, was hostess
at Coronado Court, St. Eilda-road, after
the ceremony. Ruskin made the portrait
of the bride.
Lady Stonehaven, who was almost hidden
behind a managerial offering of horticulture,
was in a box with Miss Gillett on Saturday
night when Margaret Bannerman appeared in
“Victory” at the Theatre Royal. The star,
whose role doesn’t lend itself to stylish dress-
ing, received a garden of blossoms at the
close of a clever performance.
Mrs. Tunnecliffe, whose husband, the
M.L.A., and ex-Minister, is chairman of the
Yarra Bend Park committee of management,
had the privilege on Saturday of declaring
open the suspension bridge which spans the
Yarra at one of its prettiest spots. Planned
by A. T. Clark, of the Public Works Depart-
ment (son of a former Minister of Customs),
it is one of the most notable structures of
its class in Vic. It connects the spacious
people’s playground, Studley Park, with the
equally ample Yarra Bend Reserve. Tea was
served in a marquee on the Yarra bank.
Mrs. F. O. Nixon, of Brisbane, presided
over a farewell tea-brew at the Lyceum Club
prior to her return to Banana!and. The
hostess, whose fawn and navy flowered silk
was combined with a large black bangkok
hat, played a. couple of her latest piano-
forte compositions, and Mrs. Con Beckx
Daly, better known in musical circles as
Edith Harrhy, sang some excerpts from her
lately-published second book of songs for
children.
Our women’s bridge clubs now number
three, for the Malua came into being last
week. Mrs. Wade Garnett, widow of W. S.
Garnett, one-time Crown Prosecutor in this
State, is responsible for the addition to these
card rendezvous, which is at 391 Dandenong-
road, Armadale.
The mobility of the motor-car was well
demonstrated the other night when a call
for bush-fire fighters reached Russell-street
police station from Belgrave, about 25 miles
away. In response to a broadcast summons
over 200 members of the Volunteer Bush
Fire Brigade assembled at the St. Kilda-road
depot, and by 11.30 the 100 required were
speeding to the scene in cars provided by
members of the R.A.C.V., with the commis-
sariat, organised by Colonel White’s wife,
ready to go in pursuit. There have been so
many volunteers for the transport section of
the organisation that no car owner is asked
to stand by for more than four days in every
year.
Friends of the Children’s Hospital should
make a note that there will be a day with
the gee-gees at Moonee Valley racecourse
on February 12 in aid of the institution.
A Geelong w T edding of this month was the
uniting of Betty, twin daughter of Mrs.
H. R. Salmon, of Geelong, and the late Dr.
Salmon, of Ballarat, with Darrell, a son
of the late J. T. Best, of Melbourne. The
bride and her attendant ’maid, her sister
Clair, were in all pinks, with armfuls of
delphiniums.
Kenneth Budd Bagley, who operates on
the Stock Exchange, has met his matri-
monial fate. Beryl St. John Hughes, the
lady of his choice, is staying at Myoora
Flats, Toorak. The wedding bells are to
ring in April.
There is a new arrival here who is doomed
to carry through life the middle name of
Cadillac. It was a case in which the pre-
occupation of the prospective mother became
so submerged in the solicitude of the wife
—the husband being very ill—that she lost
count of time. One night, her husband hav-
ing had another of his attacks, she ’phoned
the doctor. After one glance at the wife
he wasted no time on the husband. “Madam,”
he said, after a brief examination, “you’ve
got to come with me, and that quickly!"
An addition was made to the Australian popu-
lation before they reached the
The lady, who lias a sense of humor, told
the doctor before starting that if they didn’t
arrive in time she would call the child after
the name of his car, and she kept her promise.
Sydney Haymanson, now lecturing at
London Uni., is compiling a set of history
books with the amiable intention of proving
that some of the notabilities of ancient times
were quite human and likeable. Haymanson
is a graduate of Melbourne IJni., and was
appointed senior lecturer in history at Mel-
bourne Grammar at an age when most stu-
dents are attending classes.
Society girls from the Western District are
filling up the hospitals’ waiting lists of pro-
bationary nurses. Meechie Wallace, a bud-
ding tennis star, who thrust aside her racquet
to undergo training at the Children’s, has
given such a glowing account of her
experiences that many of her girl friends
have put their names on the list and are
waiting for a call to emulate her example.
Another recruit, Mary Tait, of Warrnam-
bool, has joined the Alfred, and finds earn-
ing her own living more satisfying than
munching buns at social frivols.
The Tom Granthams, who returned in time
to spend Christmas with their relatives after
a long absence in England, are already
making plans for a return. The Grantham
children are at school abroad and their
parents have decided to be near them till
their education is finished. Mrs. Grantham’s
sister, Mrs. Leslie Macpherson, is in London
for the same purpose.
The M. R. Finneys and daughter Judith
stepped ashore last week after a long sojourn
Oversea. He established the Bank of Com-
merce in this city and piloted it through its
years of infancy.
Enid Stephenson and her mother, Mrs. F.
H. Stephenson, are leaving Glen Druitt,
their Macedon home, for Sydney, where they
will board the Nieuw Holland for a seven
months’ tour, starting with Java, and taking
in Singapore and Japan.
Painter H. S. Power proposes to set sail
for England with his wife and small son in
April. They have booked accommodation
in Somerset for July and August, with a
view to the transference to canvas of some
of the shire’s scenery.
The Hamilton Skenes are sailing home.
She was formerly Phyllis Thompson, of
Williamstown, and as a bride went gaily
away to a home in Letekujam, where her
husband held a job on a tea-plantation. But
the tropical climate did not suit the young
wife’s health, and, acting under medical ad-
vice, they decided to found a home here,
where there is a welcome awaiting them.
Mrs. H. Lipman, from! Adelaide, who
has been visiting her mother at St. Kilda,
came over to place her young family ia
a boarding school. Early next month she
commences an oversea tour.
Mr. and Mrs. F. N. Betheras are to leave
us. Their destination is the Federated
Malay States and their new home will be
in Upper Perak. Before the knot was
slipped she was Helen Stark, and a large
circle of relatives and friends is preparing
to speed the departing ones with tea and
chatter.
Mr. and Mrs. Chapman, who came this
way to see their son, skipper of the Eng-
lish cricket team, sweep up the Ashes,
start on their homeward journey after the
fourth Test. On leaving Adelaide they will
see the match against N. S. Wales at Sydney
Cricket Ground, and w T ill then embark for
Maoriland, travelling to England by way of
the United States.
Mrs. E. H. Shackell and her two hand-
some daughters Betty and Aimee have re-
turned to their Toorak home after a lengthy
trip abroad.


Ax-nvno 3NH
37 7
No. 309-£3O
No. 304—£25
No. 306 —£25
No. 308—£55
No. 307 —£65
No. 303—£45
□ 578
BP!
No. 300—£20
No. 305—£40
i
The Diamond Rings illustrated above
represent the finest value offered in
Australia. All the diamonds are set in
pure platinum by Drummond’s ring
experts. Money will be refunded if
not approved of. Illustrated Ring Cata-
logue sent post free to any address.
M.DRUMMOND G CO.
DIAMOND AND-PEARL SPECIALISTS-
-344-346 COLLINS STREET
MELBOURNE
SnP>
m
sMSKSsrr—
■MNMIMHtt'S
■~m
■
a
(a
a
<«SS
Ml
m :
PRICE,
Obtainable at all
leading chemists
and stores.
LEICHNER’S SLIM FIGURE BATE No. 1001 affords an
easy, natural, safe tray to regain slimness. Induces the body
to act in such a manner that the cells which are lying under the
fat layers are activated and break up the unwanted fatty tissues.
A o massage, electricity or any other additional measure. Simply
take the bath before going to bed. The effect is progressive; renewal
of the baths at suitable intervals secures further reduction.
LEICHNER
Factory Representatives:
LOHMANN & COMPANY, LTD., 26-30 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
§
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
§
Melbourne Property
with Immense Potentialities
■--V
.
f
.
,t** r
-
VIEW OF LOUNGE—ORIENTAL HOTEL.
Realising AUCTION THURSDAY, 14th MARCH,
at 3 o’clock,
at 16 Queen Street, Melbourne.
ORIENTAL HOTEL
FREEHOLD & FURNISHINGS
Furniture at Valuation—Cash on Possession.
Land 132 x 206. Access on Three Sides.
THE LARGEST AVAILABLE SITE IN COLLINS
STREET.
10 YEARS’ TERMS l/sth DEPOSIT.
Messrs. Gillott, Moir & Ahem, Solicitors,
395 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Illustrated Catalogues jrom
PERCY HENRY PTY., LTD., 352 Collins Street, Melbourne,
SYDNEY ARNOLD BEST & CO., 1 6 Queen Street, Melbourne.
.S
mm.
mm
Mailed to you the
day they are made
josh free lo any
'address in Cbstralxa.
Conans 'RedL Box of Chocolates
St
(paton)
9
HILL
CHOCOLAT
address _ .162-166 Pitt Strjeet
<SY D M E
PHI CES
3/-. stf; 6/-, 10/. 124,
a.n.oL 304
ŵ
SEND, FOR. CATALOGUE ILLUSTRATEP.WITH REPRODUCTIONS OF J ~OUR.~CX)NF£CTIONERy/iN COtTQUE^


Under
Royal
Warrant
w
ToH.M.
Kin£
George V
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
ŵ
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
CHAMFACHt
UiariesHeidsi^
REIMS
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
ẁ
fiastern Setting
r T'HE exotic decora-
tions make the Ball-
room and Palm Court
ideal for the formal or
the intimately informal
gathering.
-CSC
Luncheon a la carte
daily.
Afternoon Tea .. 3/6
Saturday */-
Monday Afternoon
reserved for Bridge.
ẃ
XHE Egyptian Ballet
showing every
afternoon and Saturday
evening. Come and
hear Tutankhamen’s
favorite band.
Saturday Evenings:
Dinner 15/-
Supper 10/6
Other Evenings the
Ballroom may be
privately engaged.
RING
BW 13 6 1.
FOR RESERVATIONS
<23
temom
WoM
to HDISR
BRISBANE
The centre of Queens/onc/s
'c/is/tngu/shed Soc/Gf/
ẅ
Magnificent Ball*
room. Palm Cou r -
and Lounges at the disposal o*
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, wit.
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cole
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
HAF HEEL
SILK HOSIERY
State Governor de Chair and his lady will
soon be in residence again. Mrs. John
Garlick, wife of the Chief Civic Commis-
sioner, has sent out cards for a reception in
honor of Lady de Chair at the Town Hall
on Monday next.
Sydney and Bobbie Burns celebrated their
birthdays together last Saturday. The harbor
bubbled with blue champagne in honor of
Miss Sydney, and made merry with the usual
regatta. The Orient liner Orsova, gay witli
bunting, was the flagship for the day, and
to her, where she was anchored off Neutral
Bay, went all the notables for the official
lunch.
Regatta Day, 1929, held no joy for Nor-
man Casliman, boating enthusiast and long-
established secretary of Sydney High’s row-
ing club. On its eve his wife, the vivacious
Eileen Finney, of many a dance committee,
died in hospital at Burwood. Her only baby
slipped over the border two months ago at
its birth.
Elsie Segaert, the newly-appointed general
secretary of the Country Women’s Associa-
tion, is, although a cousin to the Belgian
Consul, an Australian. Her father decided
in early youth to make this Continent his
permanent address, so Elsie was born and
brought up in Sydney. She’s a science
graduate of Sydney Uni., and w r as organising
secretary for the Travellers’ Aid Society
till she moved over to her new desk in the
C.W.A. rooms.
Kathleen Comerford, of Rosemount-
avenue, Edgecliff, is among the newly-
engaged. Her young man is Geoffrey God-
frey, youngest son of Sir Dan, of Rosstrevor,
Bournemouth (Eng.). Dad, for donkeys’
years past the Bournemouth Corporation’s
director of music, is the eldest son of that
greater Dan who made the Grenadier
Guards famous. He was their band-
master.
Beresford Sydney Morgan had only time
to call a cheerio through this Letter’s mail-
slot when he was in town last week. He
had a date to keep with Marie Viles at St.
Stephen’s, in Phillip-street, and looked very
fine and upstanding in his wedding three-
piece with hat, tie and gloves to tone. The
wedding was one of those broad-daylight fix-
tures, and the bride artfully carried against
the silver sheen of her satin ensemble a cas-
cading armlet of pink carnations and frangi-
panni. Kenny Blanch, the one bridesmaid,
was wrapped about in pale gold tones, and
the company of Brisbane and Sydney friends
put a froth on the ceremony at Romano’s
under the smile of Mrs. A. J. Viles. Bride-
groom’s father was the late knight Arthur,
an outstanding person in Queensland politics,
and long the State’s Lieut.-Governor. He
was a literary newspaper man, and, helped
by him, son Beresford has one of the finest
collections of Australiana in the country, in-
cluding an' almost complete set of The
Bulletin.
Sydney is beginning to paint its front
doors in vivid hues. Down in Elizabeth
Bay there’s one a vivid green, one the red
of brilliant lacquer and one smiling with the
greeny-yellow of primroses. And across the
harbor at Cremorne “Sweet Nell” Stewart
has had her Den o’ Gwynne painted in bril-
liant red and green. The effect is very heart-
ening ; you feel that behind such doors only
pleasant things are happening. London is
very keen on gay doorways; and these splash
color now, not only down in Chelsea, but in
some of its gloomiest and most aristocratic
squares. The arty Basil Burdetts’ quaint
home on the North Shore line is picked out
in primrose yellows, and has a wide stone-
flagged path to its front door that looks worth
its weight in gold.
Talking about the decorative sense, nobody
has more of this than the Penfold Hylands,
though it was Nature that designed their
outdoor color scheme. They now have the
whole of the gardens and the gorgeous harbor
views from Toft Monks to themselves. At
first they had the enormous old place turned
into three flats, of which they had the
spacious ground-floor one; Dr. Herbert
Marks and his family the one higher up;
the top one of all, with its rare furnishings
and Chinese art pieces, was the town house
of Mrs. George Vivers. However, the Pen-
fold Hylands decided they could do with
more room, so the Herbert Markses went off
to Trelawney in Woollahra, and Mrs. Vivers
is at Darnley Hall.
Now that every second woman is wearing
one of the tulle or lace evening caps, lot
it be recorded that those in blocked brown
tulle are held to be the smartest. Even the
blackest hair has tones of brown in it;
therefore the brown tulle is the most sym-
pathetic, declares this Letter’s high authority.
These caps are thickly sequined; one at
an evening wedding last week bore a grape-
leaf design in gold sequins, and over each
ear-piece a bunch of grapes was cunningly
indicated by rhinestones.
Hat and scarf to match and evening
shoes and handbag of a piece are among
the new fancies of the woman with money
to burn. Some of these scarves are very,
attractive, and can be bound round the
hip, gypsy fashion; as they are mostly in
quiet tones to wear with the winter hats,
the effect is quite good if the hip isn’t of
the bulgy variety. One set of bag and shoes
seen recently were spotted as thickly as the
leopard, and even more brightly. Gold spots
the size of a threepenny-bit were spattered
on parchment kid. Another scarf that
went with a cocoa-brown hat was hand-
woven in tones of grey, brown and the
faintest yellow.
Eardley Turner, by his most urgently ex-
pressed wish, has been buried in. Melbourne
beside the wife whose candle flickered out
years ago. Although Turner grew to regard
himself as an Australian, it was that grave
in the southern city that kept him from
going abroad again ; even when work in the
Commonwealth was slack he twice refused
good opportunities to go to America; and
wherever he went in Australia or Maoriland
he carried with him the amount which in
case of his death would ensure the return of
his body for burial beside his wife. To most
people the actor seemed anything but a sen-
timentalist ; but that sentimental resolve was
firmly fixed in him.
When this Letter chatted the other day
with contralto Clarice Coles (she’s Mrs.
Broomliead, with a home in Lincolnshire)
she looked as cool as a pink ice-cream
trimmed with scalloped flounces. The former
Sydney singer, who is slim and brown-eyed,
will pack up her seven-months-old babe and
cord the trunks in March. “It was a rush
visit to see my mother, who was. then very
ill, and we made our plans for Australia in
next to no time.” Mother is better, and the
home in the far fen country will get a
spring cleaning in April. “Later I may
take engagements again,” said the Voice, but
at present my tiny mite wants all my atten-
tion.”
Book-lovers in. Queensland and Victoria
know Nettie Palmer, wife of Vance. Sydney
will soon
know her, too,
as she intends
spending
March and
April with us.
Mrs. Palmer is
that very rare
person, an
applause-
maker along
A ust ralia’s
Inky Way.
Too - soon-
dead Bertram
Stevens was
another. She
takes her
place beside
the track
where the
creative writer
uther stumbles
on his way or
in a sudden
rush of genius outstrips his fellows. She
supplies the cheers tempered with criticism,
as in her “Modern Australian Literature 7 ’
(1900-1923) and her “Australian Story
Book.” “The South Wind” and “Shadowy
Paths” are two books of verse that bear
her name. She is an M.A. of Melbourne
Uni., and a niece of just-dead Justice Hig-
gins.
Constance Herbert, of Mosman, was held
up by Benjamin Hall, of Adelaide, last week
while Padre P. A. Micklem extracted from
her the usual lifelong promissory note. But,
unlike his famous namesake, this Ben Hall
laid his worldly goods at the lady’s feet.
Everything being satisfactory, congratula-
tions were exchanged at the Australia, where
the bride’s mother was in charge.
Old St. John’s at Parramatta blessed the
vows of William Calvert Andrew, manager
of the Orient Company in New South Wales,
and Mabel Gertrude Byrnes, of that his-
toric town. The knot was tied at three in
the afternoon by Padre S. M. Johnstone, the
bride frocked and hatted in mushroom-pink,
with her one maid, cousin Jane Connolly,
in a powder-blue outfit. D. L. Dowdell,
general manager of the Orient Company m
Australia, was best man. The bride’s people
have been part of Parramatta almost from
the beginning of things; James, the head ot
the family in those far times, represented the
town in the first Parliament Australia ever
had, and that was nearly 80 years ago.
Mrs. Price Conigrave, who has just re-
turned from a holiday in Samarai and Port
Moresby, found her dream island in her jour-
neyings. It is Abau, and on it live only one
white couple, the resident magistrate (Mr.
Flint) and his wife. The palm-fringed island
is surrounded by peacock waters, and through
these to a well-kept jetty the launch carried
the visitors. From a glistening white beach
up a white pebbled path that corkscrewed to
the top of the hill the party made its way.
And there on the top they found a hostess
and a home more like Rose Bay than the
tropics. In the evening a surprise awaited
the ladies of the party. They were bidden
to a dinner on the silver sands. A cable
had been carried from the launch, and to the
beach electric lights had been run. So there,
with the booming of the Pacific for orchestra,
with hibiscus gleaming pink and red m a
low bowl, and waited upon by the 1 apuan
boys, the little group of Sydneyites ate an
unforgettable meal.
Probably you were among the hundreds at the
Coogee Aquarium last, week watching the slnn
and stu r d y
swimming girls
from every
corner of Aus-
tralia striving
for the conti-
nent’s cli a rn-
pionships. And
beh i n d the
strivers in the
race was the
lady in this
picture. She
is Mrs. W.
Chambers, the
popular and
capable secre-
tary of the
N. S. Wales
Women’s Ama-
teur Swim-
ming Associa-
tion. For 15
years Mrs.
Chambers has
attended to every detail of this arduous job,
and been actively connected with every
women’s swimming carnival. Her associa-
tion with the sport goes back still further;
it is almost a quarter of a century since Mrs.
Chambers interested herself directly, in turn-
ing little mermaids into big champions.
Tall Marian Lipscomb, of Darling Point,
in a classical swathe of white satin, sought
the blessing of St. Canice’s last week
on her marriage with shy-looking Peter
Meagher, junior, of Temora and the same
expensive suburb. Marian, who was given
away by her doctor-father, made an impres-
sive passage up the little Darlinghurst
church, her four ’maids, in swinging ivory
chiffons and apple-green satin slippers, and
her own veil of rare Limerick lace being
high lights in the procession. The sub-
sequent reception was held at Winston, the
home of the bride’s parents; here Mrs.
Lipscomb took command in commendable
apricot georgettes worn in conjunction with
a posy of deep roses. The following day
the newly-weddeds held an informal recep-
tion of mixed ’maids and best men, these
same drifting in while the Peter Meaghers
were eating their lunch at the Wentworth.
A pretty Jewish bride of last week was
Elizabeth ’Abbott, who, though married in
her own home, murmured the usual pro-
mise under the wedding canopy from the
Synagogue. This, by Rabbi Cohen’s special
permission, had been taken out to the
Randwick home, where it charged a modern
drawing-room with a Biblical atmosphere.
Golden gladioli and frangipanni were massed
in gold pedestal baskets along the way the
bride stepped in her white Limerick laces
to the canopy, where Louis Kahn, of Mel-
bourne, awaited her. A large hat of soft
white felt and an armful of golden gladioli
were other bridal adjuncts. Sister Leonore
and Mrs. Hal Saulwick added pastel-toned
georgettes to the procession, and later the
wedding lunch was spread at the Australia,
bride’s mother beckoning intimate friends to
the party.
Women are discussing with great interest
the formation of the new Forum Club in
Sydney. Already much has been done as
to finance, and cables and letters have been
passing between the founders and the Lon-
don Forum, of which the Sydney infant will
be a recognised little sister. The nucleus
of the original Forum was a group that had
broken away from the London Lyceum ; and
several of the women interested in the Syd-
ney venture were former members of the
Lyceum here.
The London Forum is housed very glit-
teringly in Grosvenor-place, with Hyde Park
Corner as its postal address. There is a dazz-
ling array of tiaras to go with the address on
big guest nights, and numerous titled women
—including Lady Denman—trim its execu-
tive. When the big inner glass doors open,
the Peri at the portal shows the plumage of
a London hall-porter at his most gorgeous.
There is no women’s club in Australia to
approach the Forum in its magnificent pre-
mises and the wealth that seems to exude
from its carpets; and literary and art folks
and musicians contribute brains to the circle.
The slender, elegant Princess Marie Louise
is one of the social highlights. At lunch one
sees almost as many men, as women, though
most of the former have the chastened air
which the grown-up mau nearly always car-
ries around with him when he is a woman’s
guest outside her home.
In years gone by St. Vincent’s Ball was
always an early fixture of the dancing sea-
son. It was, just as the calendar decided,
either the Prologue or the (Epilogue to
Easter, and so fair was its fame that it
generally cleared £lOOO for the Darling-
hurst hospital. This year again the commit-
tee lias decided to make the ball a big
affair. The Town Hall is to be engaged, the
band is to be outsize and the supper some-
thing to make every turkey in the land
shiver in his feathers. A committee, the other
morning made Mrs. S. G. Fanning its presi-
dent, and the George, Flannery, Oscar Diet-
helm, Hamilton Kirkland and Bose matrons
agreed to share the secretary’s pen.
The treasury will be kept by Miss Egan
and Mrs. Don Foy. After everything that
could be settled at a preliminary meeting had
been disposed of, the nuns served hot
scones and cakes that made at least one
woman reflect that St. Vincent's would be
a very good place to convalesce in.
Mrs. Cecil Phelps, from far Mungindi, up
on the border of Bananaland, felt so ener-
getic when she inhaled the salty Sydney
breezes that she arranged a big party and
invited some 50 guests, including members
of the Australian Composers and Authors’
Society, to the Lyceum Club on Wednesday
night last. Lilian Mitchell’s soprano was
raised in melody to the delight of the audi-
ence, Glenn McGarrit.v played one of her
own songs, and Austin Punch, the cricketer,
proved himself eligible for a perch in th?
aviary. But the big feature of the even-
ing was the singing of the hostess’s own
“Australian Anthem,” which she has found
time to compose in the midst of arduous
work. Lilian Mitchell started the anthem
and then the audience joined in till the
charming drawing-room was filled with the
sound of chanting voices. It was a true
Australian evening of song and music. The
brothers Wentzel finished up with one of
their own compositions.
The reported appointment of Dr. 0. M.
Deland to an official job at Rabaul will suit
both the- S’Australian surgeon-scientist and
his wife. She is a B.Sc. of Sydney, and has
for years carried on a private-inquiry agency
touching the life and habits of the bug and
the beetle. The Delands are on their way
back from Vanikoro, where the doctor had
the appointment of medical _ officer to the
timber comoany that is exploiting the island s
kauri forest; all time off from pursuing the
grub was spent in dashing after the butter-
fly. Mrs. Deland is a daughter of that Rev.
Leonard Robjohns who so long represented
the British and Foreign Bible Society in
Australia; an equally ardent brother in
London was secretary of the Liberation
Society, and that in its day was soul-stirring
and epoch-marking.
The all-too-brief showers of rain on Fri-
day and Saturday roused hopes in the hearts
of Sydney housewives that were destined
to be disappointed. Drought conditions have
made vegetables so scarce and expensive that
many a housekeeping allowance has been
frayed to snapping point. Last week cab-
bages soared to 2s. 9d. each.
Even the London police seem to know a
certain rather celebrated pink pinny. Walk-
ing home from her opera classes through
the early twilight of a London November,
Lute Drummond found herself _ surrounded
by traffic. Looking round vainly for an
island of safety she was relieved to meet the
smiling eyes of a policeman. His quick
glance swept over her, took in the cover of
The Bulletin folded up under her arm,
and without a moment’s hesitation he ex-
claimed, “What, another Aussie ! Well, come
on, and I’ll see you through!” And with
that he piloted her to safety.
From our sister in London:—
Quilted satin is becoming quite a vogue again.
Brides who plan a pictorial wedding often have this
old-fashioned quilting on their frocks. Recently a
bride wore a sheath-like garment of oyster satin
which her mother had embroidered and quilted. The
18 bridesmaids and the four pages in this procession
were dressed in the Romney period. The pages
costumes were in powder-blue satin and had large
diamente buttons fastening the long tight trousers
worn over the blouse. All the maids had mob caps
made of beige lace with a large flat bow of cherry-
colored ribbon in the front.
The smartest of London’s brides no longer wear
dead white, for, unlike Australians, they do not
stage weddings in the evening, and the dead-white
bride is apt to look ghastly in the religious twilight
of the church. No headwear is prettier than
wreaths, if the bridesmaids are really little ones,
and one cream velveted bride of last month was
surrounded by four Kate Greenaway youngsters m
primrose satin frocks and headwreaths of red roses.


ATHENS
with all its glories,
DALMATIA
with its romantic charm unchanged
and unchanging,
STOCKHOLM,
unique among the capital cities of
Northern Europe for its beautiful setting.
TALLINN,
the mediaeval capital of Esthonia.
The most comfortable way of visiting
these places with the minimum of worry
is to take an ORIENT LINE CRUISE.
Your ship is your home, and you are
relieved of all anxiety regarding Customs,
passports, hotels, and the many inci-
dentals which spoil an ordinary holiday.
ORIENT LINE CRUISES
w
ŵ
FOLLOW THIS SIGN FOR PROFITS
TO THE
LEIPZIG SPRING FAIR. (Germany),
With GREAT ENGINEERING AND BUILDING FAIRS, Commencing March 3, 1929
Profitable to the Business Man on account of the payable agencies offering.
Profitable to the Pleasure Seeker, as the beauty of Springtime in Germany, and
the wonderment of the Fair is a sight worth seeing. Advice and Letters of Intro-
duction courteously given entirely free.
Authorised Representative: LARS G. BRUNDAHL, 6 Dailey Street, Sydney. ’Phones: 84006,
MW2201.
Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE VAGABOND KING.
ROYAL: HIT THE DECK.
CRITERION: THE PATSY.
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
yH EATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
1 SHOWING NIGHTLY.
A NEW SHOW PVERY WEEK.
NELLIE BRAMLEY
COMPANY present
The highest class of play obtainable, at popular
prices.
The Royale Syncopators Chase Gloom
from Dull Intervals.
J c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S: THE DESERT SONG.
ROYAL:
MARGARET BANNERMAN in
VICTORY.
pALACE THEATRE, MELBOURNE,
COMMENCING SATURDAY AFTERNOON, FEB. 2.
E. J. CARROLL presents his
ENGLISH DRAMATIC CO.
in
The Thrilling Railway Play,
THE WRECKER.
TVT E W COMEDY THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
RUTH NUGENT and ALLAN BUNCE in
PIGS.
IN G’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LEON GORDON in
WHITE CARGO.
Amusements.
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
THE GOLDEN CLOWN.
With GOSTA EKMAN.
ALSO
MOULDERS OF MEN.
With CONWAY TEARLE.
Public Notice.
LJAVE you any old books or first editions?
■*" If so communicate with WELDON
O’BRIEN, Box 27, Benalla, Victoria.
FOR
ARCHITECTS,'ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
- , s
BRITISH
MADE
Perfection
pitsk: ROBBER.
To Keep Fit Is
Vital Just Now
Considerable attention is being devoted to
the value of Yeast for run-down conditions,
digestive troubles, "bad nerves,” headaches
and skin disorders; and this interest is now
urgent when one considers the present
special importance of taking a tonic to keep
fit. Cream of Yeast is the best medicinal
yeast preparation, since it contains concen-
trated yeast combined with other medicinal
agents of proven recuperative value. Cream
of Yeast is praised by the press and the
public, and many famous film stars use it.
It is the most convenient safe way of toning
up the system; its cost is trifling, and any
chemist or storekeeper can supply it.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISDANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Sociel Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Amidst fleeting showers Sir John Goodwin
went to the Ascot races. The grass Was
royally green and zinnias and asters be-
jewelled the sward, but racegoers found the
thickest trees the most attractive, t and rain-
coats covered pretty gowns. Amongst the
frocks that deserved better weather was
Mrs. R. Quilty’s lemon crgpe de Chine with
Oriental ’broideries. Mrs. Arthur Clarke
was in amber with hat of brown and amber;
Mrs. Isaac Moore chose vellum cr@pe de
Chine, with touches of dark brown; Mrs.
A. T. F. Ruthing’s saxe blue was worn
with a black hat; Winifred Burston, from
Sydney, was in mastic and floral crepe de
Chine; Binnie Marlay wore grey and white;
Margaret Wilson was in dragon-green;
Cecily Cadell-Garrick chose black; Olive
Barnes was in jade and plum color; Mrs.
Julia Creek Lipscombe was in- yellow with
’broideries of blue; and Jean Barlow wore
blue.
Mrs. W. 11. Buchanan gave the hand of
welcome to a number of friends at a party
arranged in honor of her daughter Wilma,
who will soon be married to Dr. J. C. A.
Dent. Rowes’ saw the feasting. The tables,
in the form of a horseshoe, were decked with
crimson and pale pink roses bound with pink
tulle. Mrs. Buchanan wore grey crepe de
Chine, embossed, and a black hat; Wilma
Buchanan was in cameo-pink and pastel
’broideries, with a pink hat; Iris Buchanan
was in moon-blue with a big paribuntal hat.
Judge Woolcock, who died recently, was
twice married, his first bride being a Har-
per, of this State, and his second —consider-
ably his junior—pretty Ida Witherington, of
Maryborough and Brisbane. There were
three children by the first marriage and two,
a boy and a girl, by the second. The Judge
had a literary flair; edited several journals,
compiled works on law, and wrote a detec-
tive story which ran serially through the
Brisbane Telegraph. He was deeply in-
terested in books and spent many of his
leisure moments prowling round the book-
shops.
A nephew of the late Sir Hugh Nelson,
identified with Queensland history, handed
his daughter
to the altar at
St. Stephen’s
Kirk, Too-
woomba. The
bride, pic-
tured here,
was Joan,
elder daughter
of Mr. and
Mrs. Hugh M.
Begbie, Fel-
ton, Cam-
bo oy a ; the
bride groom,
Colin McCal-
lum, son of
Mr. and Mrs.
C. J. McCal-
lum, Kerrera,
Too woomba.
Pink and
white flowers
decked the
church. The bride wore beige Chantilly
lace. Her veil of embroidered net was lent
by her aunt, Mrs. Jackson-Hope, Forbes
(N.S.W.), Paddy McCallum, Betty Begbie
and Jean Macfarlane ’maided. Miss McCallum
wore beige mariette with touches of pink
and a wide-leafed beige hat, and she carried
rose-pink lilies and roses. The little girls
■were in pink voile with ruffles of Valen-
ciennes, and carried posies of pink roses.
The Club Hotel saw the feasting.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The Y.W.C.A. and the Y. Emma have a
joint birthday in June —their fiftieth—and
they expect presents from the citizens. The
establishment of a sports ground for girls,
a large and composite affair, is one project,
and the enlargement of the Holiday House
at Mount Lofty, always full to overflowing,
is another. With the Kidman lady as
president and Miss Glasson as secretary, it
wouldn’t be surprising if both dreams came
true.
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Brookes are here
with keen eyes on the tennis, which draws
crowds however vile the day. Of the women
players, Miss Bicker ton and Miss Akhurst
carried off the {esthetic honors; their frocks
simple and admirably cut and their shingles
ditto, with eye-shades to keep them in place
(the shingles, not the frocks) and ward off
the glare of our January sun. Play has been
too strenuous to allow much junketing, be-
yond a private party or two; but there were
civic receptions at the Town Hall.
The death of Mrs. F. M. Stokes, who came
here with her father, William Giles, in ’37
in the ship Hartley, is a loss to two of the
best-known South Australian families and
two of the largest. Her father had nine
children by his first marriage and 12
by his second. Her first home was at Kan-
garoo Island, but her people afterwards
moved north, to Coonatto station. Later
they bought Mount Lofty House from the
Arthur Hardys, and when the Gileses, in
their turn, sold to the Arthur Waterhouses
a smaller house was built below the garden,
where Mrs. Stokes spent her summers.
Illness kept her away from Glenelg on the
last “Twenty-eighth.”
The engagement is announced of Ruth,
only daughter of the late Alfred Barker and
Mrs. Barker, of Prospect, to Kenneth, son
of the Frank Stoniers, of Darling Point,
Sydney.
WE STRALI A.
Perth.
The centenary spirit is steadily creeping
into sporting, literary, historical and art
circles, industrial movements and charitable
organisations. Surf carnivals, river and
char-a-banc trips, tennis, cricket, boxing,
a race-meeting, a fishing competition and a
dance are on the amusement schedule. There
will also be battalion re-unions and confer-
ences, fireworks, a torchlight procession and
a kiddies’ entertainment.
Uni. Vice-Chancellor and Mrs. Whitfeld
made the most of the few hours the Dakins
spent here on their way from Liverpool to
Sydney. A luncheon at the Esplanade fol-
lowed morning tea at the Uni. To the tea
came many friends made by Prof. Dakin
and his wife during the Prof.’s several years
in charge of the Zoology Chair here. Among
the learned lights present were Dr. Battye
and his wife, Knight Walter James and his
lady, the F. B. Allens, the A. J. Leckies and
Mr. and Mrs. Cecil Andrews. Archbishop
Riley came to Crawley to say “Australia
welcomes you back,” but was not well enough
to get out of his car.
Here’s a clever lass who has just sailed
through her
final exam, in
pharmacy, with
d i s t i n c tion
marks as a
margin. She is
Olive, daughter
of Arthur
Francis, o f
Canning
Bridge, and
still has the
last six
months to
serve of her
four years’
articles with
Dean, Collett
and Spencer.
She did first-
year medicine
at our Uni.
before she de-
cided there
was more
scope for her sex in the pestle and mortar
business. Bardwell Clarke took the picture
A beautiful bride was Gwen Compton
when she kept a tryst one recent evening
with Merton Clifton. The sleeveless bridal
gown was a glowing softness of white satin
made with an irregular ankle-length skirt
arid accompanied by a lovely old Spanish
lace veil. Bride’s sister, Mrs. Gibson, and
Gwen Clifton attended in bunchy pink taf-
fetas touched with blue, and Baku hats.
Mabel Pratt, of Carnarvon, wedded O.J.P.
Brown, of Ivojonup, at St. Joseph’s, Subigco.
The bridal raiment was of buttercup with a
sprinkling of beads, topped by a hat swathed
in gold lamd. Babs Angelo was attendant
’maid in white georgette.
Mr. and Mrs. Maitland Roberts, of Chel-
sea, Dandaragan, are to hand over their
pretty daughter Ena Madelene to Duncan
Angus Glasfurd. of Coolart, Wabeling. The
owner of the Scottish name is a son of
Brigadier-General Glasfurd, of Melbourne,
who fell in the Great War.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
What with the wool-sales and big cricket,
we’ve been having an exciting time. The
English willow-wielders arrived on a day of
showers and fitful sunshine. They said it
was like getting hack to Blighty. Some of
the visiting players are keen fishermen, and
got a bit of sport in before and after the
matches.
The T.A.J.C. Cup meeting at Elwick was
held in brilliant weather, and there was a
record attendance. A little rain had
freshened up the lawns and flower-beds and
laid the dust on the roads. His Ex. and
Margaret O’Grady, with a party that in-
cluded Captain and Mrs. Stoyles, were pre-
sent. Miss O’Grady sported a bright blue
frock with a big black Bangkok straw hat.
Mrs. Lindsay Miller wore black georgette
and heavy satin, under a small black hat
trimmed with a band of leaves. The Ash-
bolt lady was very smart in a Paris ensemble
of soft green kasha, and Mrs. Stoyles dis-
played two shades of pink. Many of the
smartest frocks showed the normal waist-
line. Dr. and Mrs. Clemons came from the
North, and many mainland visitors took
the opportunity of having a little flutter on
the turf, among them Mrs. Laidley Dowling
(N.S.W.), and Eld Kay and Miss McGregor,
of Melbourne.
The Stonehaven visit was short and called
for no entertainments. Lady Stonehaven
and Lady Hillingdon, with the young Hons.
Ariel and Ava Baird, stayed two days at
Government House, and then motored round
the East Coast. Margaret O’Grady returned
from Brown’s River, where she had been
rusticating with the W. P. Booths, in time
to receive the visitors.
When Mr. and Mrs. C. B. Davies cele-
brated their silver wedding the staffs of
the Mercury and Tasmanian Mail made
them a presentation of a silver tea-service
on a silver tray. In the speechifying,
reference was made to the long line of good
journalists who have at one time or another
been members of the Mercury staff, among
them Dr. Cunningham (Melb. Argus) and
Tom Dunhabin (Sydney Sun).
NORTHERN TERRITORY.
Darwin.
An “All White” dance given by the
R.S.S.I.L.A. brought together a good crowd
of young people, and the committee saw to
it that neither wall-flowers nor bachelors’
buttons were too much in evidence.
The summer race-meeting was a great
success. Though open to local horses only
the fields were large enough to allow two
dividends to be paid, and they ranged from
16s. to £5 Is. for first place, and from 6s
to £l3 for second —on the 10s. tote.
Brock’s Creek races, were, as usual very
gay. The fields were good, and the racing
covered three days. Mrs. Byrne, of Tip-
perary, won the ladies’ bracelet. Dancin'*
and picnics filled up the time not allotted
to racing, and the small township was agog


ẁ
You are on Firm Ground with the P. & C.
THE P. & C. works hand in hand with the man on the
land. From long and intimate experience it under-
stands his problems, and, because of its co-operative
basis, meets them. During dreaded times of stress policies
are kept in force, money is loaned, and the interests of its
members thus, protected. Enjoy these extra benefits. Let
the P. &C. protect you without delay. Discuss the matter
with a representative or write direct for information.
Chairman of Directors : Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director: H. Fell
PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD
ll4--120 CASTLE RE AQM ST. SYDNEY g£§
Jt
at naught
Stoves £ti.
LUCINDA
SANDAL.
This serviceable shoe
is made in Fawn
Calf, Tan Calf and
White Buckskin.
Crepe rubber soles
and heels. Stocked
in half-sizes.
PRICE, 19/6 I
ẃ
POST PAID.
Write for Catalogue X
FOR LADIES AND CHILDREN
189 PITT ST 22 STRAND 105 KING ST
w
escape? Sometimes Lois
doubted the truth of the
convictions so deeply in-
grained in her. Their whole
tenor appeared irrational
and conceited, when opposed
to the blatant evidences of
a bayleaf prosperity.
Ronald was whistling
softly, with his head on one
side, as he paused, consider-
ing. The simple air wove its
way through the girl’s
thought with a curious per-
sistence, as though demand-
ing the recognition which
came almost abruptly. Be-
fore Lois could check her-
self she exclaimed, with un-
usual sharpness: “What are
you whistling that for?”
“Well” Ronald’s sur-
prise was comically com-
plete. He said, flushing:
“I’m hanged if I remember
what tune it was. I was just
whistling.”
Lois was at once contrite,
•‘l’m soriy, Ron. I think per-
haps I’m tired.”
“Well, but what was I
whistling? You needn’t bite
a fellow’s head off.”
“You were whistling that
stupid ‘Poor Mary is a-
weeping,’ ” she told him,
irritatedly conscious of her
own swift color. She found
a difficulty in meeting his
slightly quizzical eyes. “It
doesn’t matter, of course, in
the least. Do go on paint-
ing.”
“I suppose,” Ronald said,
complying, as though he felt
a need for explanation, “it was because I
was thinking of Jasper and the fatheaded
games we played as kids together. Remem-
ber the party at Grasslands? Jasper used
to hate that game. I”
“Do you mind if I shut my eyes?” Lois
asked.
“Well, you are in a queer mood to-day.
No; of course it can’t matter. A quarter
of an hour will see you through to-day,
anyhow.”
Lois was selfishly grateful for the huffiness
which held him thereafter to silence. The
echo of his whistling was leading her
thought to the evening of Jasper’s return
from seeing Ann Martin laid to rest in
Leongatha. Her mind mirrored Jasper’s
haggard looks and stumbling speech with
a clarity that made her wince. She recalled
with what subtlety she had rid his obvious
distress of the presence of young Harry
Flackstyles and the flapperish female he
had brought with him to her flat. Jasper
had sat for quite a long time, just staring
at her. It had been rather frightening. She
had not known then of his trouble with
Cora. Until he told her of this, she had
supposed his greyness due alone to the
grief he felt over his aunt.
Jasper’s simply told description had
moved Lois deeply.
“It didn’t seem real, Lois, to see her
like that. Her face seemed to know—some-
thing; I can’t just explain. The comers
of her mouth were smiling; all the tiredness
and the the silliness were gone from
her.”
“Death,” she tried to comfort him, “is
kindly, like that. She wasn’t tired any
more, you see. Besides, you had made the
last few years so easy and happy for her.”
“It was her heart,” Jasper said, later.
Albert Beaument had offered to keep an
eye on Musk Ridge for him. There was
a married couple there, so the farm gave
him no immediate worry. Somehow he
couldn’t bring himself to sell it.
“Good old Albert! You’ve no idea what
a help he was, Lois. I’m beginning to
understand just what made you give up
Grasslands to him. Although nothing can
take away from the unselfishness of what
you did.”
“Albert is worth a dozen of me,” Lois
declared.
By degrees he came to Cora: “She’s been
carrying on with Roughton. You remember
him? The chap that used to travel Guruwa.
He was thrown from his car and killed—■
the night aunt died.”
Lois said quietly: “I read about it in
the paper. But I had no idea it was the
Roughton we knew.”
“He discovered himself holding to the edge of the mantel. So this was the truth—at last.”
“Cora was with him.” Jasper was
morosely uncaring of how much he told.
“She was thrown clear; hardly a scratch.
She found him dead, and had sense enough
to get away before anyone came. The
police believe that Roughton was unaccom-
panied.”
And then out of a miserable silence,
Jasper’s outburst: “God, what a mess I
made of things! God, what a mess!”
He was pacing the room, in the old
fiercely bewildered way. And Lois had
just sat there and watched him; not daring
to speak.
“Lord, d’you remember that rotten game
—that party you had at Grasslands? I’d
worked my hands sore to get free for it
‘Poor Mary is a-weeping.’ And Cora!”
Lois said faintly: “Yes.”
She was dreading what his tumultuous
thought might be at.
“All that beastly kissing!” Jasper’s face
suffused. There was agony in his mouth
and eyes. “She chose me, didn’t she—
damn her!”
“ Don’t, Jasper!”
“Filthy!”
“You weren’t to know. You were only
a boy.”
And then the sudden locking of their
eyes, as though her thought were his—
was his, rather; for she saw the swift spasm
of his understanding. She knew that her
face was white.
But half the tale told! Cora had chosen
him—yes. And he had chosen Lois. There
was no escaping that.
She was steeling herself against herself,
when he caught up his hat abruptly, with a
confused reference to the lateness of the
hour. He had left her with scarcely a fare-
well. His feet seemed to run. But perhaps
that was only the pounding of blood at her
temples.
Since then there had been a kind of re-
straint between them when alone together.
In spite of it, life seemed suddenly to have
been touched with anew beauty, anew
purpose. Lois would wonder sometimes if
Jasper felt this, too. But the thought was
so confusing that she would hurriedly push
it aside.
Lois was guiltily conscious that Ronald
was almost shouting at her. She opened
her eyes to see his hand thrusting a glass
of water at her mouth. There was con-
sternation in his voice. •
“Heavens, I thought you’d fainted! I’ve
been yelling and yelling, and you just sat
on like—like a mummy. Your face is a
bit of white paper. You’d better drink
what I haven’t upset.”
To please him she sipped a little. “I’ve
been wretchedly rude this morning. My
head aches a little. I was nearly asleep.”
“You’re sure you’re not ill?” Ronald
demanded anxiously.
“Not a bit. And I must fly. You know
what Mrs. Pole-Bugle is when she’s roused.
And she’s paying for the lunch.”
Ronald was cleaning some brushes at the
sink under the window. He cleared his
throat once or twice, and said, with such
patently affected indifference that Lois
secretly smiled: “Er—you said Betty was
to be there, didn’t you? It’s of no con-
sequence at all, only, if you happen to
think of it, you might tell her that the
new Felton Bequest pictures are on view
now. I half promised I’d take her along
on Friday, and explain them.”
“I’ll be sure to remember,” Lois promised
gravely. She delivered the message in fact,
immediately on meeting Betty; and was
rewarded by seeing that young person’s
cheeks assume the pale pink of pleasure,
Mrs. Pole-Bugle majestically led the way
to the lunch table. Her deafness made con-
versation a little difficult; but, upon the
whole, Lois acquitted herself with satis-
faction. Betty nibbled her food mostly in
silence. Upon Lois fell the burden of a
discriminating acquiescence in the rapid
remarks of her hostess. Having exhausted,
as it were, the immediate subject of hygiene,
Mrs. Pole-Bugle began unexpectedly to
speak of Jasper.
“Mr. Leith,” she informed Lois placidly,
“is on the way to a big success. My hus-
band says they’re talking about him already
in the city. And when people talk about
you, my dear, it means that you’re attract-
ing notice.”
“Of course,” Lois murmured.
Mrs. Pole-Bugle smiled vaguely.
“Such an intelligent young man. Really,
I must interest him in the work I am doing
for the Society for the Promulgation of
Saner Eating. There is to be a meeting
on Thursday—or is it Friday? Ido so
dreadfully mix my dates. Perhaps, Lois,
you wouldn’t mind mentioning it to Mr.
Leith when you see him. I’m sure with
all the money he is making he’ll want to
subscribe to the funds, at least.”
“I expect so,” Lois said, and repeated
this twice before Mrs. Pole-Bugle under-
stood.
Betty took advantage of her mother’s
sudden abstraction to whisper to Lois scorn-
fully: “If he docs, he’s stupider than I
think him. It’s the stuffiest society you
ever saw. All they do is to sit around and
read papers about food and things. Ron
and I went to one meeting, because mother
insisted, and we were bored stiff.”
Lois merely nodded. She
was looking at Mrs. Pole-
Bugle with some alarm.
That ample lady was sitting
stiffly erect in her chair.
She was breathing slowly
and heavily, and her eyes
seemed to have become
paralysed in their sockets.
One stout, bejewelled hand
was tapping the table gently
with a teaspoon.
“Is your mother quite
well?” Lois asked apprehen-
sively.
Betty looked at her
mother indifferently. “Didn’t
you know? She always does
that now after a meal.”
“But what for? It makes
me feel creepy.”
Betty yawned and picked
up her vanity bag. “It’s a
new fad. You sit still and
count a hundred after meals
—she’s counting it off with
the spoon, if you’ll notice—
and that lets the vitamines,
or whatever they are, shake
into place where they be-
long. Something like that.
It’s all right. She’s fin-
ished.”
Mrs. Pole-Bugle, once
again normal, rose heavily.
She said, beaming at Lois:
“So glad you were able to
come. We’ve had such a
nice talk. And don’t on any
account forget what I’ve
told about twice-baked
bread. My dear, you re-
member what my com-
plexion used to be. Where
is that stupid waitress?”
Lois said good-bye and wandered into
Collins-street. She was feeling, somehow,
as though she might possibly have been
twice-baked herself. Mrs. Pole-Bugle,
while amusing, was just, a little exhausting.
None the less, Lois confessed to feeling
fond of her. Countless ecstasies of hygiene
had failed to destroy Mrs. Pole-Bugle’s
naturally kind heart and charitable impulse.
On the Block Lois suddenly came face
to face with Jasper. The surprise was
mutual, and for some seconds they stood
with no greeting but that conveyed by their
eyes. Jasper was the first to speak.
He said: “It’s great to run into you like
this! You’ve had lunch, I suppose?”
“With Mrs. Pole-bugle and Betty. 1
simply reek of digestive wisdom."
“I’m rather at a loose end,” Jasper said
abruptly. He ignored Mrs. Pole-Bugle
as a subject of conversation. “My car is
parked in Queen-street. I wish you’d walk
down with me. I was thinking of a run
(Continued on page 47.)


IpHi
»»M '"•
ill
111 itmi
l.mr'W'W
KS
,v*\ y
is
m-
-1
I'l
m
Mm
3hu
8
%
1
mfi
tii
. «»
jnrin
•'iiuniii „
CX /O
■
1
HERE is no need
to ponder the
merits of this or
that brand of
hat. With entire confi-
dence you may select a
Hat that suits yourlersonalitu
Obtainable at all the
leading Men’s Stores
M 4
A PRODUCT OF UNITED FELT HATS PTY. LTD-


<MemuKpß
£
r
*
V
jcllv
\
Yf//
0‘
r
Put quality before cheapness
Always say REX-PYE
A cool, tasty lunch
On hot days, when hot food repels, you will
thoroughly enjoy dainty slices of cool REX #
PYE with its firm, cold jelly.
Place a can of REX-PYE on the ice half-an-
hour before lunch—no cooking and swelter-
ing in the kitchen! Serve it with fresh, cool
salad or mint sauce.
REX-PYE is all choice meat of unquestion-
ably first-class quality. Note its delicate
aroma. Enjoy its delicious flavour.
t=>
Other REX Pure Foods
lib and CANS
lib CANS ONLY
Baked Beans in Tomato Sauce
Lorraine Smoked Sausages
Pork Sausage
Pork and Beans in Tomato
Sauce
K-be-B (Kidneys, Beans and
Bacon)
Devilled Kidneys
Ox Tongue
Choice Soups (five kinds)
Pork Brawn.
Pig Feet
Fry and Bacon
Beef Sausages
Red-y-mele, choice
beef and vegetables
—a ready meal
PYE
In I lb. and lb. hygienic cans
ITT JONES PTY LTD.
(Division of 7 Unihed Provisions Lhd.)
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon


w
In Ladies Hands
.HERE is magic in the
'featherlike lightness of
a Shelley teacup. English
Bone China, made nowhere
but in a few square miles
in Staffordshire, and the
Shelley workers’ 75 years
of continuously inherited
craftsmanship are the secret
of this fairy loveliness. The
name of Shelley under every
piece guarantees genuineness
4
SK TO SEE THE LATEST
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery War.e
bj Lucie Attwell
tr Hilda Cowham
DohesticWare
Jelly Moulds
• HITISH MAJ>»
IN CASE Of ANY DIFFICULTY IN OBTAINING
WHITE TO
ŵ
S 3
In Days of Old
White hair was
all the vogue.
In modern days
grey or white
hair is ' consid-
ered a sign of
approaching
age.
It is NOT “THE
THING.”
All traces of Grey can readily be removed
by an application of
Dr. Allen’s (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
Sold at all Chemists and Stores.
Harmless, easy
to apply, can-
not be detected
Australian Agents:
DUERDIN AND
SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street,
Melbourne.
ẁ
ẃ
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess Insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
“THE AGE”
Established 185 If.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
The Age is a publication whose policy has
always been a consistent advocacy for the
development of Australian Industries—both
primary and secondary.
If you desire to keep closely in touch with
the news of the day, read
“THE AGE.”
It is timely, practical, wholesome and help-
ful, and its columns contain all the latest
happenings in the world having a genuine
news value.
Price lid. per copy at all Newsagents and
Bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter post free with-
in the Commonwealth.
THE AGE FOR ADVERTISING.
Publishes Over 1,000,000
Advertisements Annually.
Advertising rates obtainable at principal
advertising agencies throughout the Common-
wealth, or from—
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
South Australia’s Brightest Daily.
%
ẅ
master
Since 1836.
Young in Thought.
Quick in Action.
Delivered by Aeroplane to Various
Country Centres.
Broadcast Your Advertising
Message throughout the
Great Central State
in
THE REGISTER,
which is read by all classes,
Proprietors:
W. K. THOMAS & CO., Adelaide.
ERIC N. BIRKS, N.S.W. Representative.
Telephone X>SIB7.
0. N. BEDNALL, Argus Building, Melbourne.
The Finest Gun Dogs
In England
are fed regularly on Ken-L-Ration, the
dog food supreme. Rich in food value.
FREE —Sample Tin sent to any address
in the Commonwealth.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB
P. O. Box 1821, Melbourne
Ken-T tPation
ei
M
I
'wamm
i
iijjf
1 u vy/// >' i 1
• -v 1 //////////AW 1 nlltl/r/f
wmimmjj
m
Smoke and enjoy the exquisite
flavor of this Cigar.
Made of superb Havana Tobacco,
with a smooth, satiny wrapper.
At all good hotels
and tobacconists.
D.
EACH.
BOX PRICES:
10 Cigars 5/6. (posted 6/-); 25,
12/6); 50, 23/- (posted 23/9)
(posted 46/-).
12/- (posted
5 IQO, 45A
Sampler box, containing 2 Cigars, l/« post tree*
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Distributors Sor Club Beil Cigar Eactory*
along St. Kilda-road, and a walk in the
Gardens. Can you spare the time?”
“I would love that,” she said simply.
“Fine,” Jasper said. He added, as they
went on together: “What have you been
doing this morning?”
“Sitting to Ronald. The portrait’s nearly
finished. I’m immensely glad of that. I’ve
really disliked the whole thing. But he
made such a point of it that I hadn’t the
heart to refuse.”
“What’s it like? I mean, is it any good?”
Her smile was a little troubled. “I’m
afraid it isn’t-—very. Of course, I’ve
praised it no end—what else could I do?
But I do think it’s the best he has ever
done, all the same.”
“Well,” Jasper said, rather brutally,
“what can he expect? Footling about the
way he does. Why doesn’t he take his
coat off to his art? This make-belief!”
“Isn’t it all in the point of view? So
much has to be allowed for individual
make-up, don’t you think? So long as
Ron’s happy”;
“You do stick up for your friends, don’t
you?”
“Wouldn’t you rather that I did?” Lois
asked seriously. “One can’t make hard and
fast rules for everybody, Jasper.”
“Thank God, no!” Jasper agreed. His
voice was warmer, more kindly, than usual.
His eyes twinkled, as he added: “Now
you’ve let yourself out at the back door.
You can’t afford to condemn my interests,
after that. We’ve agreed that hard and
fast rules won’t work.”
“I haven’t ever condemned your interests.
Play fair, Jasper. Make all the money you
want, only don’t hurt others while you do
it. There now; you’ve goaded me into
tactlessness. As if you ever would hurt
others!”
“Well, I haven’t heard any squeals to
date,” Jasper said good humoredly, as-
the car slipped into the line of traffic.
Presently they were flying along the speed-
way on St. Kilda-road, between long lines
of flowing greenery. “Sooner go to the
beach?”
“No; I’m in the mood for trees and
flowers.”
Lois impulsively put her hand on his
arm, as the car stopped. She said: “Jasper,
you must think I’m an old grouch. Always
trying , to hit you with a text or a maxim.
It isn’t that really. I’m just hoping that
you’ll come one day to No; I can’t
explain. I haven’t the words. There are
some things too deep to explore with
words.”
“Oh. hang all that!” Jasper exclaimed
boyishly. He was in a rarely contented
mood. “Come and see the lake, Lois. I re-
fuse to quarrel on such a day. And that’s
final.”
She softened, as always, to the persuasion
of his happier impulse. The thought warmed
her that not for a long time had she seen*
him so responsive to the mere sap of living.
His eyes, with their little golden-flecked
lights, were laughing at her from the
shadow of his drooping hat-brim.
“Confound it, my money-grubbing hasn’t
hurt a soul. There, will that satisfy you?”
Lois cried softly: “Jasper, look at the
swans. Have you ever seen anything more
graceful?”
(To he continued.)
Sea Wolves.
Gleams the long-tom for’ard, aft the swivel
grins;
Six-and-eighty sea-wolves —God forgive their
sins!—
Seeking fight and fortune, setting out again
From their island coverts for the ports of
Spain;
Cruel as the grey sharks, cut-throat, swift
and bold,
Pouring blood fpr booty, daring death for
gold.
Winds nor wild tornadoes, gibbet, chain nor
rack,
Famine, wounds nor fevers e’er shall turn
them back;
Each in lustful vision, ’scaping from the
toils,
Gloats o’er ravished treasure, fingers fabled
spoils,
Faring home in fancy rich with silk and'
pearls,
For a fine carousal with the creole girls.
Pipes of Spanish vintage gurgle in their
dreams;
Strong Jamaican juices run in ruddy
streams;
Brandy out of Bordeaux, fiery Hollands gin,
Poured where shore-dips flicker in the dives
of sin;
Smoke and sweat of battle, hunger and
unease,
Wounds and mutilation pay the price for
these.
Fevered dreams of women gnaw their nightly
thought—
Caribs out of Caicos, from the traders
bought;
Harlots bold of Haiti, negro wenches gay,
Freckled-faced mulattoes from Samana Bay ;
Whites and reds and yellows taunt and
tempt them, these
To be won by daring on the open seas.
One, perchance, may picture, when his hoard
is won,
Far a fair plantation greening in the sun,
Where a worn freebooter, wending wiser
ways,
Turneth to Repentance and redeems his
days;
’Mid his white magnolias, fragrant after rain,
Listens to the sea winds rustling through the
cane!
Six-and-eighty robbers from the ends of
earth :
Five-and-eighty rascals ; one of better birth,
One of softer seeming, wearing on his heart
Still a silken token from a world apart,
Where a high-born lady : ere the tale began,
Gave her hand, unthinking, to a lesser man.
In the ranks of Rupert then his long sword
swung;
On an English oak-tree was a rebel hung;
“Justice on a Roundhead” payment for
despite
To a vengeful lover, riding through the night
With his tragic story. She with words
austere,
Winged with scorn and censure, slew her
cavalier!
Slew the soul within him, ne’er to rise again
Peer among his fellows —pirate of the Main,
Bound to wild adventures, with strange com-
rades met,
Seeking some nepenthe, striving to forget.
By the tide of Fortune on a new shore
tossed,
Captain now of Corsairs, leader of the Lost!
None his courage question, few his anger,
dare,
Moody chief of pillage, darkly debonair.
Sure with point and pistol, smiling as he
slays;
Round the steaming Indies, down Brazilian
bays,
Hath he rudely written tales in blood and
flame,
Till the Dons in terror tremble at his name.
With his hungry sea-wolves going out again
From their lairs to levy heavy toll on
Spain—
Cortez and Pizarro led the gory way;
If they rob the robbers, who shall say them
nay?
If their guarda costas fail to guard the
coast,
In the fires he lighted, let the Spaniard
roast!
* * Hi *
Hard by San Lorenzo they gained a goodly
prize.
At Gracias a Dios their sunken carvel lies
In forty fathoms rotting, with its plundered
gold
Spilled along the bottom, scattered through
the hold.
’Mid corroded cannon, crowded in the gloom
Of eternal silence, sleep these sons of doom.
Long and fierce the combat. Yea, their foe-
men swore,
Though ten times outnumbered, strove as
ne’er before,
These distraught sea-devils, led by one apart,
Who a lady’s ’kerchief wore upon his heart.
Last of all his sea-wolves ’mid the slain he
stood,
Silvered pistols smoking, rapier red with
blood,
Worn and wanly smiling, back unto the
mast,
Thrusting like a demon, killing to the last.
When they offered quarter, turning in his
pain,
Fired his scornful answer in the powder
train !
Cape Gracias a Dios blazed with sudden
flame;
By Gracias a Dios ended thus the game.
* * * *
All their sins unshriven, sunk beneath the
wave,
Six-and-eighty sea-wolves found a fitting
grave.
Never to Port Royal come they howling back,
Never at Tortuga join the wolfish pack
Rich with plundered ingots, silver, silk and
pearls
For a wild carousal with the, creole girls !
Winds nor mad tornadoes, gibbet, rack nor
chain,
Famine, wounds nor fevers shall they dare
again;
Harlots out of Haiti, wenches dark and bold,
Seek from other rovers gallantry and gold.
But a high-born lady, in a land apart,
Wears a silver token on her aching heart.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.
The Deserted Orchard.
The grey old hush has gathered back her
own,
And holds them fast in this deserted
hollow
Where leaves drift, and the changing
seasons follow;
And now Spring’s silver flute again is blown.
Someone that set the apricots lang syne,
And pruned the peach, and watched the
quince aflcwer
In the green valley’s quiet sheltered bower
Long, long ago, has left these treasures mine.
Mine the white wordless poem of ecstasy
Springing in pure perfection from the
sod.
That even uplifts my thankless heart to
God
In thankfulness that such delight may be.
Where wandering capeweed trails its broken
gold.
And slanting grasses quiver, feathery
crowned,
Surely this acre is enchanted ground,
So wrapt in peace, so lovely, and so old.
The old grey bush creeps closer, taking back
Little by little, something of her losses;
rsut here the apple holds up her rosy
crosses
And thrusts thick blossomed bars across the
track.
The old trees flower again. I wish that I
Gould feel as oft in many a long-dead
spring
Before life dragged a dusty, broken wing.
I touch deep muted chords that should not
die,
Finding them unresponsive, though the
breeze
Lifts the long grasses, and the thrushes
sing,
And all the matchless artistry of spring
bpells Resurrection in the orchard trees
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DAIZIEL.


;„ e in Cuwpe
9
on
S.S. “Duchess of Bedford”
S.S. “Duchess of Atholl”
These two magnificent liners are
the latest addition to the mighty
Canadian Pacific fleet of steam-
ships. They show the greatest
advance in modern ocean travel.
Lavish luxury abounds and the
saloon accommodation is the last
word in ease and comfort.
These speedy 20,000 tonners have
introduced exclusiveness into cabin
classification between Canada and
England.
Passengers have the use of practic-
ally the whole promenade deck —
for walks, sports and in-the-open
dancing.
Australian travellers can make cabin reservations in Sydney. Write for the
beautifully illustrated literature to any office of the Union S.S. Co. of N.Z.,
any Tourist Booking Agency, or J. Sclater, Traffic Manager for Australia
and New Zealand, Canadian Pacific Railway Company, Union House,
247 George Street, Sydney.
CANADIAN PACIFIC
Auction Sale.
To Mining Companies, Quarrymen,
Machinery Merchants and Others.
Under instructions from G. M. REID, Esq.
p ERCY A. WELLS & COMPANY
will sell on the SITE
WILKINSON’S AMALGAMATED
YALWAL GOLD MINES, N.L.,
YALWAL, VIA NOWRA,
SATURDAY, 9th FEBRUARY,
AT 2 P.M.
1 110-H.P. KYNOCH SUCTION-GAS ENGINE, COM-
PLETE WITH 150-H.P. GAS PRODUCER.
1 10-H.P. and 1 12-H.P. TUBULAR BOILERS,
complete with mountings, 1201 b. w.p.
1 12-H.P. and 1 16-H.P. VERTICAL STEAM
ENGINES.
1 10 X 10 INGERSOLL RAND AIR COMPRESSOR
and RECEIVER.
1 8 x 14 CROSSLEY AIR COMPRESSOR and
RECEIVER.
1 5-HEAD STAMPER BATTERY, 1200 stamps.
1 CHALLENGE ORE FEEDER.
1 ROCK-BREAKER.
1 SET HADFIELD ROLLS, 30 x 18.
1 SET ROGER ROLLS, 36 x 18.
2 -J-ton SIDE TIPPING TRUCKS, 3 4-ton END
TIPPING TRUCKS, 1 1-ton TIPPING TRUCK.
APPROXIMATELY 3 MILE OF 201 b. TRAM RAILS.
2 INGERSOLL RAND JACK HAMMERS.
ASSORTED WATER and STEAM PUMPS, ORE
HOPPERS, BLACKSMITH’S TOOLS, ENGI-
NEERS’ TOOLS, INCLUDING SPANNERS,
STOCKS and DIES, HAMMERS, DRILLS, ETC.,
4-TON CHAIN BLOCK, 1 4-TON and 1 2-TON
BOTTLE JACKS, WIRE ROPE, REVOLVING
TRAMMELS, ETC.
1 SHED, CONTAINING ABOUT 300 SHEETS OF
GALVANISED IRON.
LARGE QUANTITY OF STEEL SHAFTING, FROM
3in. to sin. WITH C.I. and S.S. PULLEYS
FROM lOin. to 48in.
QUANTITY OF BELTING.
For Further Particulars Apply
PERCY A. WELLS & COMPANY,
Machinery Auctioneers,
Amico House, 19-23 Parker Street,
Haymarket, Sydney.
'Phone: MA2928.
Wanted.
YY7ANTED, a mate to make trip through
vv America for experience. Technical
graduate in engineering or mining preferred.
June, 1929. Reply “25,” this office.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
For Sale.
(^OLLAROY-NARRABEEN.— A gentle-
man’s home, in most exclusive part, 3
large bedrooms, spacious verandahs, kitchen,
bathroom, all offices, septic tank, profusion
of flowers, fruit, vegetables. Glorious views,
overlooking Narrabeen Lakes. Land, 100 x
200; five minutes surf or tram. Furnished
by Beard, Watson’s, Ltd. Immediate posses-
sion. Price, £2BOO.—CEDRIC FIELD,
Ocean Grove tram stop, Collaroy. ’Phone,
Y 8066.
Legal Notice.
IN THE/ESTATE OF WAIT,TER EUGENE
1 LYONS, late of Hobart, in Tasmania,
Deceased, Intestate.
If FRANCIS CECIL LYONS (last heard
of in Charters Towers) and ERNEST
HENRY LYONS (last heard of in West
Australia), brothers of the above-named de-
ceased, or their next-of-kin will communi-
cate with VICTOR SAUL LYONS of No.
136 Bathurst Street, Hobart, they will hear
of something to their advantage.
w
YOU cannot buy a bettei
pen for the money than
this sturdy, good - looking
“Blackbird.” Each part is shaped
and finished with the care and
precision not usually found in
pens of similar price.
SELF-
FILLING
BLACKBIRD*
9/-
OF STATIONERS
AND
JEWELLERS
'BLACKBIRD'
SELF-FILLER
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., 133 & i3s,.Oxrord St., London, W.I
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY. LTD., 181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
“ Swan” Pens, “ Blackbird ” Pens, “ Swan ” Ink and “ Fyne-Poynt ” Pencils.
Legal Notice.
"TO CLARA MAUDE BIRCH and
RUPERT EGGERS formerly of Frank-
ston Road Dandenong in the State of
Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that citations bearing
date the 26th day of September 1928 have
been issued in the Supreme Court of South
Australia citing you respectively to appear
and answer the petition of GEORGE
THOMAS BIRCH of Lockleys in the State
of South Australia gardener praying for a
dissolution of his marriage with his wife
CLARA MAUDE BIRCH AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that you are within 30
days after the date of this publication to
attend in person or by your solicitor at the
office of The Master Supreme Court House
Victoria Square Adelaide and there enter an
appearance in the suit. In default of your
so appearing you will not be allowed to
address the Court and the Court will pro-
ceed to hear the said petition proved and
pronounce judgment in respect thereto.
DATED this 25th day of January, 1929.
F. B. McBRYDE,
Deputy Maser.
This notice was extracted by William
Donnithorne, of Australasia Chambers, King
William Street, Adelaide, Solicitor for the
petitioner.
ŵ
ẁ
Backache 2
Get Rid of Ageing Bladder and Urinary
Trouble
From pain and weakness to healthy vigour
within 48 hours is the rule with Harrison's
Pills, the signed remedy of a London doctor.
Nothing like them for rheumatism, backache,
painful urinations, weakness due to uric acid
disorders, urinary and bladder troubles, or
for aches and pains generally. No matter
how many things have failed you, Harrison's
Pills will set you right, for they remove the
cause of the trouble. One user says, “Never
known such quick relief. They soothe all
the pain axcay and leave you entirely re-
juvenated. Since taking them I have fell
years younger .” If you want to feel and
look 10 to 20 years younger—quickly—get
a package of Harrison’s Pills from your
chemist or storekeeper to-day. Three sizes:
2/-, 3/- and 5/-. Satisfaction certain.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to knots.


' -Jr. .
m
Miss ANNIE CROFT, noted
Theatrical Star, is a Rexona Girl,
and writes as follows: “Since
arriving in Australia I have used
your famous Rexona Soap, and /
find it par excellence the very
best for the skin and hair.’ >
ẃ
Girls !
Multiply
Your Beauty
Nothing adds to a girl’s charm and beauty more than an exquisite skin and perfect complexion.
To obtain this and to retain it, there is nothing to equal Rexona Soap. If your skin is
sallow, tanned or blotchy, you will be both surprised and delighted with the good results
obtained from the daily use of Rexona Soap for the toilet and bath. Right out of every ten
women in the better walks of life have adopted Rexona Soap for their personal hygiene and
know there can be no real beauty without a clear skin and a perfect complexion, and it is
only by daily and continuous use of Rexona Soap that the bloom of youth can be retained
even until and past middle age.
'Rexona,
afoap
~for Jbalih
' and
Beauty
mm
»o*
W
W«*S£X®
uVAH
1/-
ẅ
The Enthusiast.
T. P. BAKER’S STORY OF A THRILLING EXPERIMENT.
1 PICKED up the bottle that Simpson
indicated and handled it warily. Sundry
■*" experiences with his inventions have
taught me to treat them with the extreme
care of a Mussolini opening the morning’s
mail. They are apt to act suddenly and
unexpectedly.
“That,” he said, wagging a proud fore-
finger at me, “is my latest effort, and a com-
pletely new idea. I’m calling it the Elixir
of Elasticity.”
He beamed upon me and adjusted his
glasses. He is a watchmaker by trade, and
gives his spare time to the invention of
explosives, machinery and dark messes for
human consumption. These last he calls
elixirs, in the manner of the alchemists of
old. He looks the part. He is long and
thin, resembling four signal-arms loosely
attached to a flagpole, and his face is but a
haphazard collection of features; blue of
chin, watery of eye. Pince-nez wobble uncer-
tainly on the brink of a beaky nose, and
to complete the effect his head juts out at
the back like the stern of a battleship. I
think his appearance drove him to inventing.
He has a small tin den at the foot of his
garden, a den of mystery where he hides
from his wife and cooks his elixirs.
“What’ll it do?” I asked, looking around
for a place to sit down. As usual, the floor,
the table and the chairs were an untidy
litter of junk.
“Sit down. Not there, you fool; that’s
sulphuric acid. That stuff you have there is
a preparation for imparting the elasticity
of youth to worn-out limbs and bodies. , In
younger patients it will increase the supply
already available. Consider the possibilities !
nonagenarians will win hurdle races and
paralysed men of seventy will be getting up
and inviting the doctor to a couple of rounds.
Every high-marking footballer in the State
will demand it; in fact, I shouldn’t be sur-
prised to see roofed-in football-grounds in a
year or two. It’s enormous, man. I’ll make
a special strength for trick-dancers and sell
it to the Russian ballet at ten quid a bottle.”
I held it distrustfully to the light. It
was a dark green concoction, thick and sul-
len, and to me there seemed to be a threaten-
ing, almost malignant, look about it—as if
it held undreamt-of powers and was gloat-
ing over the pangs it could inflict. It was
rather like the rich green cod-liver oil of my
youth, and I put it down and moved a retort
in front of it.
“The chief ingredient is rubber,” went on
Simpson, fondling the hell-brew. “You know
how springy that is.”
“Tried it yet?”
“Yes; but it hasn’t had much effect so
far. I don’t think I’ve absorbed the rubber.
But I’m going to take a double dose to-night
and see what it does. And, by the way”
“No hope, old man. We haven’t paid the
rent or the light and there are three pay-
ments outstanding on the pianola.”
“You want to look ahead, you know. * You
authors are too conservative. A hundred put
m now will bring a small fortune.”
One of the drawbacks of inventors as
friends is that one has to be continually
thinking up reasons for kicking “small for-
tunes” and “little goldmines” down the
stairs. This is sometimes a severe strain.
The following afternoon Mrs. Simpson
directed me curtly to the laboratory. Three
words were all she spoke, but she gave me
the impression that something had happened,
and she held me responsible for it. If Simp-
son ever blows himself to pieces she’ll be
convinced I did it because I wanted to write
an ode to his appendix. I was mildly
alarmed as I went round the house and down
the path. Chemicals are funny things to
meddle with.
A strange, thick voice—certainly not
Simpson’s—answered me through the door.
“That you, Piggy? Anyone with you?”
“Yes. No.”
The bolt went back and Simpson stuck out
a pale and wretched face. “Come in,” he
said in that gluey voice. He rebolted the
door and looked at me dismally.
“I’m glad you’ve come,” he said. “I’m in
a rotten hole. Sit down; not there, you
fool, that’s a collapsible washing-machine,
and you’ll be going through the rollers.”
“Wasn’t the elixir successful?”
“From one point of view it was an entire
success, but you can overdo anything, even
success. Last night I took a tumblerful, and
it seems to have joined up with that already
inside me and got to work in a hurry. It’s
had some awkward effects. For instance,
look here.”
He grasped one ear, pulled it out a dis-
tance of two feet from his head, and let it
back with a sounding smack.
“That’s it,” he said. “I’m rubber.”
I was interested. “Are you the same all
over?”
He nodded and stretched his nose into a
good imitation of an elephant’s trunk.
“It started this morning*. One of my
socks was tight and when I pulled at it my
leg gave and I kicked myself on the knee.
At breakfast I couldn’t eat properly because
of my fingers, and when I was drying the
dishes I broke a salad bowl. If the degree
of elasticity was constant it wouldn’t be so
bad, but you never know what’s going to
give next. Walking down the street this
morning one foot got stuck in a patch of wet
clay, and I pulled my leg out six feet long
before I knew what was happening. Then,
as if that wasn’t enough, I began to sweat.”
He turned a shade paler.
“I sweat rubber solution now. I could
put it up in tubes and sell it to mend punc-
tures. It’s so sticky I adhere to everything I
touch. When I came in and hung my hat up
I lifted my scalp a yard into the air. And
this afternoon I had a really terrible experi-
ence.
“Every Sunday the wife gets five or six
old hens here and they pour tea into them-
selves and talk by the yard. I have to put
a collar on and hand the stuff round and be
polite 1 . Of course I’m really on show.
She sent me for more hot water.
That’s one of my tricks, you know—
*Yes, dear,’ and away like a greyhound. I
got half-way across the room and left my
chair at the table. The distance between
us was ten feet, but strictly speaking I was
still sitting in that chair. I was the most
ridiculous shape you could imagine. Humilia-
ting, too!”
He incautiously passed a hand through
his hair. The hand promptly stuck and it
took the pair of us ten minutes to release it.
In the process I pulled his elbow into such a
shape that I thought he would never get it
back again.
“Don’t stand there grinning,” he said irri-
tably when he was free once more!. “I can’t
go about like this* Can’t you suggest any-
thing?”
I looked at the smears on my hand, and
memories of stolen bicycle rides and secretly
mended punctures returned to me.
“How about French chalk? If you keep
yourself well dusted with that you won’t
sticky Or petrol might help.”
“Wliat’s the good of petrol? I’m not a
tractor.”
“It might dissolve the rubber,” I said.
“You can lift patches with it, anyway.”
He started to scratch his head, but re-
membered in time and hastily lowered his
hand. “I could try it,” he said doubtfully.
“I suppose I could get it down'. It tastes
of dead cats and bilgewater, but that won’t
matter, because everything is glue to me
just now. Tf there’s no change by to-morrow
I’ll have to do something.” He sighed,
gufnmily.
It was, of course, no fault of mine that
the idiot should once more overdo the matter.
It is true I made the suggestion, but one
takes medicine in a tablespoon, not a
shovel. I was at breakfast next morning
when a note was delivered to me. It was from
Mrs. Simpson; an SOS to the effect that
her husband had locked himself in his labora-
tory and was shouting for me. “Please
come at once,” it ended. “He is quiet now
and I can’t get any answer. He may be
deack And could you lend me an egg-beater
for half an hour?”
I gave Mrs. Simpson the egg-beater and
sprinted down the garden. The door was
shut tightly. Wondering if I was already
too late, I tapped. A bellow like a bull’s
came from within.
“Hi, wait a minute! You open that door
as quick as you can, and when you get in-
side shut it twice as quick. Some of me
might get out if you don’t.”
I dashed inside and banged the door be-
hind me. The room was empty. I stared
all around, up and down. There was no
trace of Simpson, but a heavy smell of petrol
hung in the air. Then I saw his clothes
piled on the floor.
“Well,” I murmured, “I’ll swear I
heard”
“I’m here,” said a pettish voice from the
ceiling. “I’m that smell.” The words were
coming now from the region of the window,
and I swung round in that direction. There
was nothing there. “This is your confounded
suggestion,” went on the invisible speaker,
“and you see what’s come of it.”
“I don’t see anything,” I said. “Did you
take the petrol?”
The air between my legs spoke so sud-
denly that I jumped. “Nearly a gallon. Sit
dowh. Not there, you fool; that’s a new
dingo-trap, and it doesn’t take much to touch
it off. And keep still, because when you
move it stirs me up too much. I’m here so
far, but I keep circulating, and I fancy some
of me has begun to escape up the chimney.”
“Can you materialise, old man?” I asked,
gazing round me. “I like to look at a person
when I’m talking to him.” It was an eerie
experience to talk to the empty air and hear
the answer first from the ceiling, next from
the floor and then from under the table.
“I had to hold my nose, after all,” said
Simpson over my head, “but I got the stuff
down. Ten seconds later I began to feel
damp about the feet, then damp all over.
The petrol wa3 dissolving the rubber and
taking me with it. I was like an icicle
before a red-hot stove. Five minutes later
I was a pool on the floor. The greatest in-
ventor of my age, mind you, and trans-
formed into a puddle on a concrete floor.
Now I’m a smell. We men suffer for our
science.”
“There’s no puddle now,” I said, looking
at the floor.
“It didn’t take me long to evaporate.
Petrol does, you know, and quickly. I’m
vaporised here without my clothes, and I’ve
got to take the wife to the pictures to-night.
What the dickens am I to do?” He drifted
fretfully about the room.
It was then that he passed through the
third stage of his adventure. It was a pure
accident on my part, but at least it was the
means of restoring him to normal condition.
Habit-bound, I took out a cigarette to assist
the process of thought.
“Look out!” barked Simpson from one
corner. He was too late. I struck a match.
I had no idea he would prove so explosive,
even combined with petrol vapor. He went
off like a young cannon; tore the roof off,
flung me into a corner, broke both windows
and wrought considerable havoc amongst
his own retorts and glassware. I had never
seen him so demonstrative. Fortunately he
left the walls standing, for when I picked
myself up and regained my breath he was
standing beside me. He was black, scorched
and cindery. His sole covering was soot,
"''f that he had a liberal allowance.
Thank_ goodness,” I said, for though
Simpson is undoubtedly a menace to the
community I should like to see him pass
out in a less ignominious manner than as
a smell escaping up a stovepipe. “A narrow
squeak that. 111 bet it’s the last time you’ll
try your own elixirs.”
He wasn’t listening. He had run a finger
down one arm and was staring at the result.
No wonder the old ’bus was knocking”
he said. This brand of petrol would clutter
up every cylinder.”
Then standing there among the debris
there came into his eye the glad light of the
inventor confronted with a new idea
I can test my synthetic benzine this wav ”
he said joyously. “I’ll bet it doesn’t deposP
a. gram Do you think I ought to take a
pint and a half or two pints?”
What can you do with a man like that’
I went home to finish my breakfast.


x JL.| “‘Gv&'Jf Picture
vA?I Zells a Story'*
*
■ i" i
•..lif
mm
h
IBS
V
Never neglect your kidneys!
Avoid that backache by taking Doan’s Pills.
W EAK KIDNEYS spoil your joys, making
you feel old and wretched, and unfitting
you for either work or play. Why not prevent
such trouble? Middle-aged people, in particular,
should take an occasional course of Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills as a precaution. This helps the
kidneys to rid the blood of impurities that cause
backache, rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, dropsi-
cal swellings and urinary disorders. In many
serious cases of kidney trouble Doan’s Pills have
proved highly successful.
TESTIMONY FROM SYDNEY.
A COMPLETE RECOVERY.
Mrs. A. Knight, 64 Angel-street, Newtown, Sydney,
says: “My husband was a great sufferer from backache
for some time. He was almost crippled with the ailment,
and compelled to knock off work for a good while, as
every movement caused him increased suffering. He tried
remedy after remedy in the hope of a cure, but they all
failed to give him any relief, and his back ached on in spite
of treatment. Hearing of a cure effected by Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills, I induced my husband, after a lot of
persuasion, to try these Pills. He is very glad that he
took my advice, for they completely cured him, and he has
not had the slightest pain in his back since. They are
a grand remedy for backache, and should be taken by all
who suffer from this trying ailment.”
Eight years later Mr. Knight says: “I have had
no return of my old complaint since Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills cured me over eight years ago. I always
keep this medicine in the house and take a few doses
whenever I feel a little off color, and they do me a lot of
good.”
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Foster McClellan Co., Proprietors, 15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
D OAN'S
Backache Kidney Pills.
DOAN’S OINTMENT CURES PILES.
SYDNEY PEOPLE SAY SO.
Mrs. R. Wark, 61 Eveleigh-street, Red-
fern, Sydney, says : “A member of my
family suffered terribly with Protruding
Piles. The pain was so great that he
could not sleep at night, and would toss
about for hours. He had been suffering
for three years, and we were always hav-
ing advice and using different remedies,
but nothing did him any good until we
got Doan’s Ointment. This remedy
proved excellent; it gave complete ease.
I cannot say enough in praise of Doan’s
Ointment, and recommend its use when-
ever opportunity offers.”
Twenty years later Mrs. Wark says:
“I am pleased to tell you that the mem-
ber of my family who was cured of Piles
by Doan’s Ointment over twenty years
ago is still free from this trying com-
plaint. This remedy is a certain cure
for Piles.”
Mr. A. H. Francis, 192 Union-street,
Erskineville, Sydney, says: “I used
Doan’s Ointment for Itching and Pro-
truding Piles, and I am pleased to tell
you it completely cured me. Previously
I had tried all kinds of ointments, but
they gave me little or no relief. I was
suffering terribly when I first applied
Doan’s Ointment, and had little hope of
it doing' me any good, but its soothing
and healing effect was noticeable almost
at once, and by the time I had used one
pot I was completely cured, all signs of
Piles having disappeared entirely. I am
a great believer in Doan’s Ointment, and
consider it the best Pile remedy known.
Six years later Mr. Francis says: “I
have not been troubled with Piles since
Doan’s Ointment cured me.”
KEEP A TIN ALWAYS ON HAND.
IT’S A MIGHTY FINE REMEDY.
Poor Cows o’ Crows.
A TALE OF THE TRACK, BY FRANCIS OSBORN.
“/'"'iOME on up with me. You won’t find
a better place in the State than
Dubbo. And I’ll guarantee to pick
up jobs for the pair of us right away.”
Gerry Dale’s not very direct gaze rested
for another moment on Carling’s face before
it looked away again.
“What did yer leave Dubbo for then, if
it’s all that marvellous?”
“Cos I was a fool. I came down to Syd-
ney with me cheque, and did it in. More
than did it in—l ’ad to stop down here
an’ find a job to get clear. But I’m right
now, an’ I’m off to-morrow sun-up.” Carl-
ing’s quiet and very direct eyes looked at
Dale’s pallid face all the time that he was
speaking. “The city’s no good to yer—yer
know that as well as I do. Pull out an’ come
on up with me. Get a bit o’ tucker an’ a
blanket and footslog it. Yer’ll never regret
it.”
Sitting on the kerbstone in Mark-street,
which is at the bottom end of the ’Loo,
Gerry Dale was thinking. Not so much of
Bill Carling and his offer as of Humphrey
the Swede and what he’d had to say last
night. The Swede had a big job on, to come
off in a month’s time —no chance before. And
Gerry was to be the Swede’s off-sider on a
fifty-fifty cut. It was a big job—unset
diamonds and a fence waiting with both
hands open—and Gerry was proud of the
Swede’s choice of him.
But Gerry had been careless lately.
Nothing much —he was a newchum and not
yet in the regular game—but enough to make
the dicks look his way too often. The Swede
said he ought to fade away for the month —
give ’em a chance to forget him. He passed
him a plan of the building—it was a third-
floor down town with a fire escape and two
staircases, and it would stand a bit of
knowing for a newchum on his first regular
job with all the dirty work to do —and told
him to soak it into himself during the
month so that lie could find liis way about
the place blindfold.
And here was Bill humping bluey to
Dubbo. Bill was a stranger in the ’Loo and
didn’t think too much of it ; it wasn’t easy
to get the strength of Bill in a good many
ways. But his foot-slogging to Dubbo fitted
in with Humphrey the Swede’s talk. It
was a dinkum fade-away—two cobbers walk-
ing west for work. Gerry’s restless eyes
came back to Bill.
“I don’t mind,” he said. “Gimme the
office what to get, will yer?”
Many times in the first days Gerry looked
back at the easy, lazy ’Loo. His feet ached
and blistered. His back was sore. Every day
was hotter than the day before; and every
day he was blown before noon. After they
passed Penrith he seemed to be fagging up an
everlasting hill, with nothing but bush to
look at and nothing but tea and water
to drink. Many times he looked back long-
ingly to Doolan’s pub and the comfortable
street-corners of the ’Loo.
Bill never said a word —kept walking
steadily on as if it was his only job and he
liked it. At sundown he looked for a good
place, lit a fire and cooked a bit of bacon
or something and boiled a billy of tea. He
smoked his pipe for a spell, staring at the
fire; presently he rolled up in his
blanket and went to sleep. At sun-up he lit
the fire again, boiled his billy, and was ready
for the road before Gerry had smoked a
couple of cigarettes to wake himself up.
You never saw anything. No shops, no
lights, no neighbors, nothing. Gerry hated
Humphrey the Swede and his cold feet—
hated Bill and this endless mountain road
as much as he hated his own blistered feet
and chafed raw heels. If this was the
country, no wonder they all went to Sydney!
He fell into a dazed listless monotony of
endurance. Only his nightly studying of the
Swede’s plan kept him going. When Bill
was asleep he got the paper out every night
’ and pored over it by the light of the fire.
Before they reached Lithgow he could have
walked blindfold all over that third floor.
The plan and what the plan meant kept
him alive. When that job was through he
wouldn’t be spending his days slogging along
the roads. He thought of the taxis he’d take,
the meals he’d buy, the clobber he’d treat
himself to. It couldn’t go on for ever, if it
did look like it.
Lithgow behind them, Gerry’s mood of
listless endurance seemed to pass. His nine-
teen years of youth reasserted themselves.
His feet no longer ached and his back felt
supple and strong. He took to lighting the
fire and cooking the bit of tucker instead
of letting Bill do it all the time. He made
Bill talk; and he felt his heart growing
lighter, though he couldn’t have said why.
Sometimes he even forgot Humphrey the
Swede, though he still studied the plan at
night.
He found himself slipping from deep sleep
into waking in the twinkling of an eye.
He had the billy boiled before Bill had turned
over. The rich colors of the bush came at
him now, as they walked steadily on. He
began ,to wait for that small sundown
breeze; he began to watch for the change
from daybreak to dawn. He began to feel
himself as part of this road and all the life
in it.
At times he forgot the ’Loo, or remem-
bered it only as part of the past. The swag-
gies they met and overtook seemed more
interesting in the little they had to say than
all his mates of the ’Loo. Bill laughed at
his attempts to talk to them; but he didn’t
mind that.
They killed a snake —that is, Bill did —
and Bill told him something of snakes and
goannas and spiders, the underworld of
the bush. They picked up a job of light
clearing outside Orange—only a couple of
days, and Bill did most of it; but it seemed
to put a kick into Gerry’s fade-away, seemed
to bring the bush and its existence nearer
to fnake Gerry feel more and more a part of
the bush.
Bill became clearer as a personality. The
fact that you couldn’t get the strength of
him —which had been so narking in the ’Loo
—lost all importance out here on the roads.
That quiet steady way he had of looking
through you seemed to be all right here.
And he’d tell you anything you asked him
if he knew it. He didn’t talk unless you
did ask him; but that was all right, too.
Coming into Molong they camped early.
It looked like rain, and they were tired after
a solid day in heavy threatening weather. The
crows were flying ponderously before the
coming storm, cawing and moaning low down
over their heads. Bill looked up from the
fire at the birds as he put the tea into the
billy, but said nothing.
Gerry opened his tucker bag, but his hands
fell idle. The crows were moaning and
lamenting all round them; there seemed to
be thousands of them, all in the lowest depths
of despair. Ho sat back on his heels and
Watched them for a moment, his ears full
of their sorrowful voices. In a slight lull
in the din, Bill turned to him.
“What’s up, Gerry?” he asked.
“Those poor cows o’ crows,” Gerry told
him —“you’d think they were all dyin’ and
hadn’t a hope.”
Bill laughed. “Don’t let any of the old-
timers hear you wastin’ sympathy on crows,
he warned him. “They’re not popular birds.
“Why not?”
“They got a bad habit of pickin’ the eyes
out o’ young lambs and tearin’ open their
backs for the fat round the kidneys.”
Gerry stared at him. “The cows!” he
murmured.
“Yairs. There was an old fellow one time
over Yass way—Jimmy the Croweater we
used to call ’im —an’ he had a solid down on
crows. Used to trap ’em and pick their eyes
out, or break their legs, and then let ’em
go. He raved about ’em and what ’e'd seen
of ’em —how they’d go for the ewes when
they w r ere weak in the lambing season and
leave the blinded lambs out in the sun and—
oh, a whole heefp more. Of course, Jimmy
was a bit gone in the head. We used to
laugh at him. But there was a lot in what
he said about crows. And what every sheep-
farmer’ll say about ’em, too.”
Gerry looked up at the moaning birds.
“Well, of all the” he began, but paused
at a loss for words. .
“But I don’t think the crows get a fair
deal,” Bill went on. “It’s rough, I know,
but the birds haven’t a chance. That’s the
nature they’re given and they don’t know
any better. You can’t blame ’em, an’ it’s
waste of time goin’ on raving and swearin’
at ’em and torturing ’em. They’ve never
had a chance.”
Gerry’s gaze came down from the birds
and rested on the fire for a moment. Still
looking at the glowing wood. “That goes for
men, too,” he said as if he were speaking
to himself. “Some o’ them never had a
chance.” .
“No,” Bill said. “That doesn’t go with
me. Every man gets his chance.”
“Some o’ them don’t get it. Crook mates
an’ a crook dad —crooks all round ’em when
they’re kids.” Gerry watched the fire.
Bill shook his head. “A man’s a man,”
he insisted, “not a poor cow of a bird who
only knows how to feed itself. Every man gets
his chance. Maybe lie’s too lazy or too slack
to take it. P’r’aps he’s too much of a coward
to take it; or p’r’aps he thinks he can see
more in it for himself if he doesn’t take it
—which is pretty much the same as getting
cold feet about it. But some time or another
in his life it’s there for him to take, if he’s
got the sense to keep his head clear and
grab it.” . , . . .
Bill tapped his pipe out. vv e re right
enough here if the rain does come,” he added,
“but I think it’s gone over. I can’t keep me
head up after the sticky day.” In a moment
he was asleep.
Gerry continued to watch the fire. The
’Loo and Humphrey the Swede, the fade-
away! A confusion in his mind seemed to be
rising, but to a clear orderliness. He was
happy here beside this fire with old Bill
asleep there.
Once he glanced up at thq crows still
moaning past in the grey light. Never had
a chance! _ , ,
In the end he smiled, took the Swede s
plan from his pocket, and threw it on the
fire. That done, he put his blanket under
his head. Soon he, too, was asleep.
Barcarole.
Now night and beauty dwell
Abroad, and all is languorous with flowers,
Warm-scented in their slumbers; while the
hours
Unfold them as a spell
Born in music; and mad fire-flies burn
On the water, where grave God might learn
A lover’s villanelle.
But soon a wind shall stir,
And in the perfumed sorrow of its sighing
Dim store of dreams retell; and trees
replying
In dolorous demur
At the yearning whisper of that sound,
With a mist of blossom woo the ground
And gently cover her.
A cloud shall fold the moon,
And fade the silver veil now faint and dying
Upon the lake; and shadows steeply lying
There lean no more, but soon
Grow half shapeless with each dark’ning star,
Till the water, tree and hills afar
Together darkly swoon.
And on the water there
A voice shall sound, a long lamcntful crying
For things remote and vague; a pallid
sighing
Of anguish on the air;
Like the plaintive echo of a violin
Calling for the comfort of a nameless sin,
Unutterably fair.
N.S.W.
ROBEBT DALE.


A
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
£nsure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—IIOLMKS « CHUUKCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office —U 3-107 l''eatherston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Victorian Ollloe—“Chancery House,” 485 HourUe Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. fiI.DER, SMITH ,t CO., LTD., Adelaide. B.A-
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town and
Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and each
issue is eagerly read by men, women and
children of all. classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays. Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD,,
Macquarie Street, Hobart,
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart,
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 228
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus"
Building, Elizabeth Street.
The Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South Australia,
and is Read by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation in
Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny of Net Sales
invited.
ALL THE NEWS AND ALL THE
ADVERTISEMENTS.
In 1927 average size of “THE ADVERTISER, ’’
26 pages of 8 columns (each 24J inch deep).
Space occupied by advertisements averaged
16J pages daily, or a Total of
988,712 INCHES IN THE YEAR.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER'’ may be
obtained at all inter-State agances of
Messrs. Gordon and Golch, price l )d.
Head Offices:
J. L. Bonython & Co.,
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. L. WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone MA 8161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper.
To-day, in the great State of Queensland, the newspaper that
offers to merchants and manufacturers unquestionably the
finest “cover” in the daily paper field is
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
Circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be
greater than that of any other Queensland daily.
For rates and other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE,
First Floor, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Restful, quiet and cool—open to the Summer Sea Breezes. Delightfully situated with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service.
Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Summer Tariff from 5 guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS?.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: ¥5012 (4 lines). Management M. E. BURROWS.
QUEENSLAND’S BIG DAILY PAPER
THE BRISBANE COURIER
Easily the best and biggest Daily Paper
published in Queensland and carries more
ADVERTISING
than any other Queensland paper year in
and year out - - “Courier” advertising
INCREASES SALES
Rate Cards and specimen
copies from
Robt. D. Fisher,
Sydney Representative,
74 Pitt Street.
'Phone 85007.
Published by the
Brisbane Newspaper Co.,
"Courier” Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Also publishers of the
“Queenslander” and
"Sports Referee.”
What's the matter with you ?
V\
•Million. suffer constipation unknowingly. Theit
elimination is regular, but always a day or two late.
A DOSE AT NIGHT
WILL KEEP YOU RIGHT.
You don't quite know what
is the matter with you.
You're just simply
13HA&
mm
You should watch carefully for this
condition. It tells of constipation*
and liver trouble. Headaches, dull
eyes, indigestion and biliousness are
further symptoms.
Act at once ! Take Beecham’s Pills,
the most effective method of conquer-
ing constipation. Purely vegetable,
they keep the bowels,
liver and kidneys
healthy and regular.
mammae
PERFORMANCE
Exceptional performance
under trying conditions has
proved conclusively that
dependability and economy
are built-in features of all
Kermath Engines. That
is why over 70% of all lead-
ing boat - builders use Ker-
math—Kermath is supreme.
All parts Standard and Inter-
changeable. American Bosch
Magnetos—impulse coupling.
3 to 150 H. P.
1 to 6 cylinders
4-cycle Engines
HALL BROS., Ltd.
Careening Cove
(Foot of Willoughby St.)
Milson’s Point
North Sidney. N. S. W.
Kermath Manufacturing Co.
Detroit, Mich., U.S. A.
Kermath
MARINE ENGINES
“The Examiner”
Tasmania's Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
“Weekly Courier”
Published
Every
Wednesday
mm
V
0
a*
s®
o°’
Gfi* f f* c
- 3 0>' *i
** 0* .•- .•■ ‘‘*v* *o'
*<* ..•*' .-•>/ s*£**
#•’ ..•• ..*•* c*Vi*V
• •■ vf
••** .•***
.*•** .•• ■ i
• * .* o*' -to 0 *


SURPASSING ALL PREVIOUS CHRYSLER
ACHIEVEMENTS IN THE LOW PRICED
FIELD -
I .
/far
Plymouth Coup*.
w
ŵ
«a
SKIP
“si
THE new Chrysler-
built Plymouth is
utterly unlike
any other automobile
at anywhere near its
low price and far
beyond anything that has gone
before in appearance, perform-
ance and value.
For the Plymouth, Chrysler engi-
neers have developed entirely new
and distinctive body lines. The
Plymouth is long, low, swagger in
appearance. It contains generous
seating accommodations. It is
luxuriously upholstered and finely
finished.
Chrysler’s justly-famed engineer-
ing skill has designed an engine
and chassis giving performance so
far superior that comparison is
futile.
Sixty miles and more an hour with
smoothness that is the very essence
of velvety action from the new
“ Silver - Dome ” high-compression
engine, with which you can use any
gasoline.
You ride the roughest roads at 25
and 30 miles an hour without the
least jar or discomfort.
The Plymouth is the only car at
or near its price equipped with
light action internal expanding
hydraulic four-wheel brakes with
moulded brake linings. Weather
cannot affect their efficiency.
All these things are given at such
an extremely low price that this
car must justly be considered the
most unusual value ever placed
upon the market.
See it and test it. We are sure
that in the Plymouth you will dis-
cover an entirely new kind of per-
formance, appearance and value
surpassing any ever previously
known in the low price field.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS :
New South Wales Larke. Neave Sr Carter Ltd.; William Street, Sydney
Victoria • Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Collins Street, Melbourne
Queensland Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane
South Australia O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide
West Australia William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth
Tasmania Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart
New Zealand Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington
New Guinea W. R.. Carpenter Sr Co. Ltd., Rabaul
