

Jirsl QJiaph
Z^
\
V,
<■«*•
5
o
8.
B
a
* »j)) • »i n »a \
s
r
On the shores of Port Waratah, close to Newcastle, New South Wales, there
existed for centuries an unhealthy, unsightly swamp.
When the Broken Hill Proprietary Co., Ltd., decided, in 1912, to engage
in the production of iron and steel, this spot was selected, on account of its
deep-sea frontage, as a suitable spot for the establishment of the works. By
the outbreak of the war the construction of the works was well advanced,
and the Government and people of Australia were consequently able to look
forward with confidence to the maintenance of railway communications and
the continuance of manufacturing operations.
The swamp had produced nothing—the Steel Works, which were taking its
place, were relied uoon to produce sufficient iron and steel for the industrial
salvation of Australia,
* After the establishment of the industry the first
thought was naturally for National Australian needs.
The Australian Railways required rails and fishplates—
engineering workshops needed iron and steel in various
forms to enable them to keep the manufacturing and
mining industries going.
These requirements were carefully studied, and the
necessary supplies were produced, with the result that
the wheels of Australian Com-
merce and Industry were kept
moving, and employment given
to the many thousands of
workers.
m
m
I wm
f
r
r, >r
m
s:
m
PS
*Jfi£S&x>pd QAqptep
But there were other materials required in Australia—the
needs of the great Primary Industries next came under
review. As the production and distribution of these articles
required specialised handling, it was decided to operate through a
subsidiary company, Rylands Bros. (Aust.), Limited, whose works
were established adjoining the Steel Works at Newcastle.
“WARATAH” FENCING WIRE, “WARATAH” BARBED
WIRE and “WARATAH” WIRE NETTING were the first lines
turned out. These were of the very highest grade, comparing to
advantage with any similar articles produced in any part of the
world. These articles were eagerly welcomed by primary pro-
ducers, their sterling quality at once recommending them.
*he Management of the Newcastle Works were, however, not yet satisfied. They saw that, year after year,
hundreds of miles of fencing were destroyed by bush fires. Could this great loss be prevented? Why not
steel fence posts? V
No sooner was the question raised than steps were taken towards its solution. The posts required must be exceptionally
strong, easily erected, not too heavy, and with a lifetime of service before them. They must be so constructed that the
fiercest bush fire would not harm them. After many experiments all these requirements were fulfilled, and primary producers all
over the Commonwealth are now using WARATAH “B.H.P. STAR” STEEL POSTS, which are absolutely safe from fire, will not
rot, are impervious to white ants, require no postholes, do not need to be bored, do away with wedges or ties, and obviate the
necessity for ramming the posts, or for insuring fences against fire.
The “WARATAH” STEEL POSTS, which are prepared exclusively from Newcastle “8.H.P.” Steel, are probably the greatest boon
yet enjoyed by the man on the land. They have been made possible by the establishment of the Steel Works at Newcastle, and by
the skilled local knowledge of their managers.
The latest product for landowners is the FLEXO STEEL DROPPER, which is unbreakable, fireproof and rustproof. It is flexible,
easy to fix and can be attached to any existing fence. It is specially suited for use with the “Waratah "Steel Posts.
The Newcastle Steel Works give employment to thousands of Australian workers, enable Australian Railways to be run, help Aus-
tralian engineers and manufacturers, and assist primary producers to conduct their operations efficiently and economically.
THE PROGRESS AND PROSPERITY OF AUSTRALIA
ARE CLOSELY LINKED UP WITH THE NEWCASTLE IRON
_ AND STEEL INDUSTRY.
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARYCOUP
IRON AND STEEL MASTERS.
BRANCH OFFICES—SYDNEY: 28 O’Connell Street. ADELAIDE: 28 Franklin Street.
LONDON : 3 Gt. Winchester Street. *
WORKS —Iron & Steel Works, Newcastle, N.S.W. Wire Mills: Rylands Bros. (Aus.), Ltd., Newcastle,
Iron Knob. S.A. Limestone Quarries: Devonport, Tas.
HEAD OFFICE: 422 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
PERTH: St. George’s Terrace.
Ironstone Quarries:
%
The Bulletin
-/&W- fahwvui io. Ifrdilnq fir JbwxLca, .
Vol. 50.—N0. 2597.
Wednesday, November 20, 1929.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


nm
I LIU
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON !
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pv Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address ••••
S.B.
(L.YSAGHT7
B
O
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght's Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
P?
V :
What to
loin
Jo for Rheumatism,
ins and Backache
Keep your blood free from uric acid, and
ageing pains will not molest you—Rheu-
matism, Backache, Swollen Joints and
other tortures cannot then rob you of your
healthy activity and strength. The reliable,
guaranteed way to get rid of the harmful
pain-causing acid is to take Harrison's Fills,
bearing the signature of a London doctor.
Harrison’s Pills dissolve the uric acid crystals
which lie along the nerves and muscles, tor-
turing them with every movement you make.
When you take Harrison’s Pills you feel the
ageing aches and pains glide away; you feel
strength and health return. Hundreds of
testimonials. A user writes
Only about three weeks ago I sent for a trial
sample of Dr. Harrison's Pills, being completely
crippled with rheumatics, and within a week I could
walk about. I then sent to the chemist for a bottle
of Harrison’s Pills, and now I’m almost cured. I
can’t express my thanks, to be free from aches and
pain after suffering so long. All sufferers would be
wise in taking them. — ( Sgd .) Mrs. R. Woods, Branx-
holm, Tasmania.
Decide NOW to rebuild - your life —to jrt
rid of Rheumatism, Backache, Kidney, Blad-
der, Urinary and Uric Acid Disorders! (Dt
a package of Harrison’s Pills from the
nearest chemist. Three sizes : —lB pills. -/
32 pills, 3/-; and 68 pills, 5/-. Take as
directed, and if not pleased with results
from the very first bottle —money back!
rn'i
rrison
.
Remove
the Cause
Laboratories, Kembl
Sydney, and all Chemists.
“The Examiner”
Tasmania’s. Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly is the
cly Courier”
Published
Every
Wednesday
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
ITISH
MADE
Perfection
PirSKl RUBBER
DANDRUFF MAKES
MEN UNPOPULAR.
Dandruff is caused by tiny germs, and baldness is
a disease originally associated with dandruff. Both
are curable if dealt with in time. Here is the
method: Get some Vi-glo (this is better than
bay rum tonics), and rub it well into the scalp
night and morning, with fingers kept quite stiff.
This antiseptic-stimulant cleans away every trace of
dandruff like magic, and invigorates the blood vessels
which feed the hair. Vi-glo is the standard pre-
paration usually recommended by specialists and
better-class chemists to those requesting a really
effective dandruff cure and hair grower. ■ It is a
clean, elegant preparation that does not soil linen,
and gives every satisfaction even in cases of pre-
mature greyness.
Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building,
Sydney, and all Chemists.
Sure Death to All Insects.
THE TYPHOID FLY,
A Messenger of Death to Man.
Kill that Fly with
“MUSTDIE"
The Non-Poisonous Powder.
Kills Cockroaches, Fleas, Bugs,
Mosquitoes.
Sold everywhere, Chemists, Grocers,
Storekeepers, 1/- a tin.
Or forward 1/- in stamps to
BOX 1520 G.P.0., SYDNEY.
The House
aptly
termed
the
Typhoid Fly
d
Showing thl
rough hairy
body and
head and
legs, on
which
Microbes of
Disease adhen
him,
*UAT FLY
YY/RITE for the Library Catalogue and
W terms, and lists on all subjects, which
will be forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
Reading Poetry
When I read Homer I feel bigger than
Magog....my legs become the legs of the
universe, and my elbows rest among stars.
It was another way with a friend of mine
who said that Homer’s Iliads and Odysses
“Lilliputed” him. He blamed himself,
rightly; because Homer sings for the world.
Anv “poet” who lessens a man is not a
poet at all: the title, derived from the
Greek poieo, meaning to make or create —
not to belittle, or destroy—is against him.
Plato urged the proscription of Homer; but
for an opposite reason, namely, that Homer
was a poet indeed. And Plato avoided the
Muses.
Every sagacious reader contributes to the
story he is interested in. If you have know-
ledge, with understanding, it were better
not to sound the words on your tongue;
but to receive, in the mind’s ear, the mind’s
voice which comes with them. The eye is
silently musical. Then, if you must read
aloud, wait for the impelling moment.
When Coleridge recited from “Pro-
metheus” Hazlitt, said of him: “We seemed
to hear the voice of the man hated by
the gods, contending with the wild winds as
they roared; and his eye glittered with the
spirit of antiquity!”.... But there are few
Coleridges.
At one time certain Australian writers
made a h'abit of reading their poems to
one another. Daley and Quinn used to do
it: I have also listened to McKee Wright,
to Bayldon and to Arthur Adams. I shall
not particularise; but some of these read
well, some badly. The ones who read
badly prejudiced my taste against their
poetry; because, afterwards, when I came
to examine their verses I could never get
rid of a faulty intonation or a wrong quan-
tity, no matter how right the stanzas might
be.
Brennan alone is worthy of a Hazlitt:—
Of old, on her terrace at evening
....not here... .in some long-gone kingdom
0, folded close to her breast.
close-locked in that passionate arm-clasp
no word did we utter, we stirr’d not:
the silence of Death, or of Love....
only, round and over us
that tearless infinite yearning
and the Night with her spread wings rustling
folding us with the stars.
The whole poem belongs to Brennan; but
the last four lines are so intrinsically his
that to hear him declaim them is to remem-
ber them all the days of.your life.
Upon another occasion Brennan recited
(in the Hellenic tongue) a description of
Ajax weary from the fight; the sweat put-
ting out his eyes, running down his arms
and neck, and dripping through his harness
his helmet shorn of its crest; the thud of
spears pounding upon his cuirass, and the
blows magnified in words cunningly adapted
for the purpose, iterated and reiterated,
until the battle of thousands of years ago
rolled its enormous tide again before the
mirror of imagination. Coleridge could not
have done better; and Hazlitt must have
confessed that Brennan’s eye also “glittered
with the spirit of antiquity!”
HUGH McCRAE.
Should We Be Australian?
Apropos The Bulletin's past and present
novel competitions, an interesting line of
discussion is opened by ex-Senator Josiah
Symon’s Shakspeare the Englishman, three
lectures chiefly concerned with the human
existence of the Bard, just published at the
Register Press (Adelaide).
It is a common contention that too much
emphasis is placed upon the importance of
Australians being Australian in their work.
It is quite an ordinary parrot cry in other
branches of creative effort, but especially
does it crop up in regard to novel writing,
where it is more fatuous than in any other
application. Shakspeare and Dickens, say
its upholders, created universal characters
but the unfortunate Australian is expectec
to be Australian in his character-making
That would be important only if it were
true—if Shakspeare and Dickens did create
universal characters because they created
universal characters. On the contrary they
did create universal characters, not because
they created universal characters, but be-
cause they created local ones. If Shakspeare,
having created Falstaff out of Heaven knows
how many London tavern frequenters, had
shipped the stout knight off to Asia, Fal-
staff would have remained tavern-London
despite the shift. It is suggested—often,
though it laughs at itself every time it is
suggested—that Pickwick, and every other
Dickens character, including Swiveller, can
be met in, say, Sydney. What a hasty,
inadequate idea some readers form of litera-
ture’s immortals! Pallid resemblances of
them certainly can be met —like those fried-
fish merchants and pork butchers that parade
in the pictorial press as the “doubles” of
Bruce and the Prince of Wales. There is a
resemblance; you can see it at a glance—
and that is the way some people read. The
physical husk is enough for ’em. The fact
is that Pickwick can be met only in Dickens,
and Falstaff only in Shakspeare; and when
they are met, whatever fundamental things
they may share in common with us who are
mere mortals, they are literary immortals;
With us who are Australian, they are English.
An Australian writer will create characters
like them only when he has learnt to use
the material at hand for its full worth. He
will not do it by consciously attempting to
create universal character, but by uncon-
sciously using local character. His char-
acter wall be universal because it is local,
and in spite of that fact. We go to litera-
ture for life; we must, know life before we
can make literature.
Josiah Symon goes beyond such easily-
localised characters as those I have chosen;
even such an apparent creature of the fancy
as Hamlet he makes out to be clearly an
Englishman. In regard to setting, he pur-
sues Shakspeare the Englishman along
interesting ways:—
His love of England, the land of his birth, was
that of the true, great-hearted, single-minded English-
man .... No panegyries of England approach his own.
Nature everywhere to him is that of “Merrie
England”—animate with all rural beauties. You
cannot read his poems and plays without feeling
it.... It is the English dawn which
“Dapples the drowsy East with spots of grey.”
It is the English lark —“the gentle lark”—
“Which, weary of rest,
From his moist cabinet mounts up on high,
And wakes the morning from whose silver breast
The sun arises in his majesty.”
It is the English April which he describes as “proud-
pied April,” and which.... “dressed in all his trim”
he says
“Hath put a- spirit of youth in everything.”
It is the English violet —“the blue-veined violets” —
which he had in mind when, in “Twelfth Night,” he
wrote
“If music be the food of love, play on.
Oh, it came o’er my ear like a sweet sound
That breathes upon a bank of violets,
Stealing and giving odor.”
And it is certainly the English girl whom Petruchio
describes
“I’ll say she looks as clear
As morning roses, newly washed with dew”
—a rose-scented miniature of a girl as sweet as
English air could make her.
Again, it is the English hare he makes immortal
in the wonderful description of coursing in “Venus
and Adonis,” and it is the British stag whose
“Big round tears
Coursed one another down his innocent nose
In piteous chase.”
.... The very soil of England excited in him an
overmastering devotion.
It is England, England always! Those
who argue that Australians need not be
Australian apparently believe that neither
Australia nor an Australian nation exists.
Personally, I believe that there is a definite
nationalism in Australia; that the Australian
is a reality, at once of a kind with the rest
of humanity, and different. It is one of
life’s little gaieties that Englishmen persist
in picturing this country as a piece with
England, and persist in being astounded
when anything English is not swallowed
here. That English satire such as that in
“This Year of Grace” is declined here with-
out thanks creates an amazed correspon-
dence in a London newspaper! The reason
it did not go down with -our theatre-
crowds was simply that it was English with-
out being universal. And that is why a
good deal of Australian writing does not
go down with the world. It is not enough
for us to be Australian—it is necessary to
be unconsciously Australian. Some of our
writers are painfully self-conscious. They
explain Australian instead of describing it;
they label a dummy “Australian” instead
of recreating the living thing; and then they
have the front to complain that Australia
is a drug on the literary market !
CECIL MANN.
Expatriates—a Defence
John Dailey, writing about Australian
expatriates (R.P. 24/7/’29), is all wrong. He
says his article is concerned only with “Aus-
tralians who shudder at the thought
of leaving the rigors of Europe for a land
where it is possible to be comfortable with-
out personally organising that comfort.”
During my three .years in Europe I have
met many Australians, none of whom
seemed to suffer from this horror, and
most had the intention of returning to Aus-
tralia, if only for a visit. Also, I have met
no person of the type of Sinclair Lewis’s
Lady Oust on. I have always been surprised
how Australian at heart these so-called
expatriates have remained, even though
their accents have changed.
Anyway, what are these “rigors” of
Europe? The winter? Last winter really
was bad, but spring makes the winter well
worth while, and gives us a contrast in
life and nature which makes existence more
intense, more interesting.
Then: “The inhabited part of Australia
is....about the world’s most comfortable
abiding-place for people of moderate
means.” I have lived in Berlin on less
than £3 10s. a week, and on that amount
I have eaten well, seen dozens of operas,
concerts and plays, travelled m Germany
and bought too many books. A meal which
would cost 3s. in Australia one can get here
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“Truth in Advertising” has built Anthony Horderns'.
Anthony Horderns'
(THE SENIOR STORE)
Bicycles and Tents —
to answer that Irresistible “Call of the Road
at
Hit!
bite
-it
t
!'■'•■■■ 'HlUlfir 7*3
''V/"'/^v' 1 ""' , ./.'. v ”\7* In i ,!V*.vJ.
I|iu"‘^»!7''- vl ’/ />!
.i| ll"l'»".
The compelling lure of the great outdoors makes itself felt more and more as spring
melts into summer. With a bicycle to travel the unfrequented by-paths, or a tent to
pack easily into your car, what more perfect accessories for exploring the countryside
could anyone desire?
“Marquee” Auto Tents
15ft. x 15ft. Price £l2/15/-
It is possible to walk around in comfort in this tent, which has a
calico division that provides two distinct rooms. In fine weather the
front can be used as a verandah. The roof is of waterproof Birk-
myre. The tent is complete with ropes attached; Bft. centre pole;
twelve 6ft. telescopic poles; 24 small and 16 large galvanised tent-
pegs; and tent and pole bags.
Size, 15ft. x 15ft., with Boz. Duck Walls. Price £l2/15/-
Size, 15ft. x 15ft., with 10oz. Dunlop Duck Walls. Price £l4/107-
Size, 12ft. x 12ft., with Boz. Duck Walls. Price £lO/17/6
Size, 12ft. x 12ft., with 10oz. Dunlop Duck Walls. Price £ 1 1/15/-
All measurements are less hems and seams.
In using our
Deposit - Pur-
chase System,
you just leave a
small deposit,
pay the balance
as it suits you,
and on com-
pletion of pay-
ments the goods
will be delivered
in the usual
way. No in-
terest.
“The Camper,” 59 6
Soz. DUCK MOTOR LEAN-TO TENT.
Here is a lean-to tent that has found favor with
many motorists. Height, 6ft. 6in.; walls sloping
to 3ft. 6in.; size of room, 9ft. x 9ft. Six-foot flap
goes over hood and fastens to car with ropes. Calico
curtain between car and tent. Ropes, pegs, 2 col-
lapsible poles, 6ft. 6in., and 2 poles, 3ft. 6in.
Measurements of all tents are less seams and hems.
Price 59/6
(Dept. Ist Floor. Carriage extra on tents.)
’JSfZ,
■A.
Boy’s “ Victory”
Bicycle, £7/15/-
Perhaps you promised your boy
a bicycle if he “passed” in
school. If so, or if you want to
make him a Christmas gift that
will delight him, decide upon this
handsome bicycle, specifications
for which are:
Frame sizes: 1 6in., 1 Bin., 20in.;
Wheels and Tyres: 20in., 24in.,
26in., x Ifin.; Nickel-plated
Rims; Upturned Handlebars:
Front Rim Brake; Eadie Coaster
Hub ( which includes Free- ’'eel
and Back-pedal Brake). e
bicycle is finished in
enamel, lined. Price, r e
with Inflator and Tools, >/-
{Dept. 2nd Floor. Delivered free city and suburbs only.)
Man’s “Challenger”
Bicycle, £B/7/6
This bicycle is built in our work-
shops of all-British material;
first quality and fully warranted.
Specifications are: 20in., 21 in.,
22in., 23in., 24in. Frames of best
Weldless Steel Tubing, 28 x II
Wheels, Moseley’s Damos Tyres,
28 x It Williams’ Chain Wheels
and Cranks, Rat-trap Pedals,
Outrigger Adjustable
Handlebars, finished with three
coats of Black Stove Enamel and
Transfers. Complete with all
Tools, Tool Bag, Inflator, Clips
and Oiler. Price .... £B/7/6
Price, if fitted with Eadie Coaster
Hub, including Free-wheel and
Back-pedalling Brake, £B/19/6
d
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
'Phone: M2W
Day and Night


/
J
/XI,
STILL THE SAME
IN WiICHT,SIZE,QUALITY* &• PRICE
YOU CAN BUY'
STATE EXPRESS 333 CIGARETTES
WITH THE CONFIDENCE THAT
THEY HAVE IN NO WAY BEEN
AFFECTED BY INCREASE IN TARIFF.
STATE EXPRESS STILL KEEPS FAITFF-
WITH THE VAST PUBLIC WHO
ENJOY THE FINE QUALITY AND
FRAGRANCE 0F3335.
Srm €*PR£SS
CIGARETTE'S
STILL SUPREME- AT
' ■


‘WINCHESTER
TRADE MARK
The King of
Target Rifles
'WMCff£ST£R
TRADE MARK
MODEL 52
USED by champions, at championship
matches, this Winchester Model
has proved its title as the king of .22
caliber target rifles. A military style, bolt
action, .22 Long Rifle repeater, with
phenomenal accuracy and holding qual-
ities. Consistent, day after day, in assuring
you every point you earn on your target.
Winchester Precision Cartridges
are fitting companions for this great rifle.
They are specially made for the most accurate
target work. Shoot Precision 200 on the out-
door rifle ranges and Precision 75 on the
shorter indoor ranges.
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS CO.
NEW HAVEN, CONN.. U. S. A.
Always use Winchester Ammunition with
Winchester Arms —they are made for each other
50 -WmCHjESTER 50
.22 LONG RIF CARTRIDGES
kyoN V 5
Wliwtsiu RAWING ASMS .go.. NEW HAVEN.CONN.U SA.
d
for Is. 6d., and it is better served. Fares
are less, and one can get a bottle of good
wine in large restaurants day or night from
2s. up. One can take a pot of coffee, cost-
ing Is. in a first-class cafe, and remain the
whole evening, either dancing or listening
to an excellent orchestra playing classical
music. Such cafes are not to be found in
Australia; there are literally hundreds of
them in Berlin. Berlin and Germany are
cheap; France is said to be even cheaper!
“Australians,” says Mr. Dailey, “are to
be met living economically in dull
French or Italian towns, or in the chill
depths of the English country, or, even
worse, in outer London and Paris suburbs.”
Dull? Can he tell me any single French or
Italian town which has not more life, more
art, more things of interest than any Aus-
tralian town? Chill depths of the English
country? In 1927 I rode 2000 miles through
all England and Scotland on a push-bike,
and was won over from the anti-England
party by the beauty of the English country-
side, which is soft, dimpled, smiling, ruddy,
anything but chilly. Render unto Caesar
the things which are Caesar’s. Australia has
no Devon; England has no surf beaches.
England is a garden; Australia is a park.
And then this point: Is it any worse being
in a London or Paris suburb than being in
the same class of suburb in Sydney?
For persons of intellectual or artistic
leanings Europe is certainly their home.
Everything is at hand. In Australia there
are circles as intellectual and artistic as
anjTvhere else, but they struggle against
distance, poverty and lack of public in-
terest. These obstacles do not exist here.
Plays, given in Australia by enthusiastic
repertory societies in obscure theatres and
with little encouragement, are starred here
and put on by world-famous producers.
The Theatre, Music, Art are not considered
as relaxations from life, but as a part of
life.
Modern ideas germinate in Europe; busi-
ness methods in America. There are move-
ments well advanced in Europe of which
Australia knows nothing or little; ideas and
experiments revolutionising our social life;
ideas which will perhaps filter to Australia
decades hence. A country is judged by
what it gives the world and civilisation.
We are known in Germany, at least, as the
inventors of the automatic starter for horse
races; by the tote; not even by our aviators,
who are given credit as being Englishmen
or Americans.
Then for Life with a capital “L” there is
only Europe. As Switzerland is the play-
ground of England, so is Europe the play-
ground of the world. And to its many
charms is added the charm of international-
ism, that feature of European life which is
always interesting and new. One can go
for a trip round the world by walking down
Piccadilly or Unter den Linden. Then there
is the cafe life; the cafe habit, to which all
fall victims. Cafes where one can drink
coffee and read the papers of any nation;
cafes where one can make love; cafes
where one can dance or listen to
operatic music. One wonders what life was
without them, and how one could live
without them. They are a drug more
seductive than opium.
It is a peculiar form of nationalism which
demands that everyone live in his native
country. Some Londoners prefer Paris to
London; some Australians prefer Sydney to
Melbourne; so do some prefer London,
Paris, Berlin to Sydney. We all try to find
the bed which is the most comfortable. And
why not?
BERLIN.
R. S. PANTON.
The Risen Sun
In general the structure of Father Mar-
tindale’s The Risen Sun (Sheed and Ward;
Angus and Robertson), his “Impressions
in New Zealand and Australia,” is conven-
tional. He touches Sydney’s sport, Mel-
bourne’s Englishness, Adelaide’s reserve;
drink, immigration, the social manifesta-
tions of democracy; he prefers the country
to the towns; he thinks that migrants might
be a bit more reticent as to the way things
are done in the Old Country and that we
might be a bit more friendly and helpful
to the new chum; he repudiates the ideas
that our manners are bad, that we like
flattery, and that we. are “sensitive.” He
considers that our alleged materialism is a
curate’s egg. He admired the things that
most visitors admire and no doubt depre-
cated the other things he was too polite
to mention. In all the constants he follows
the rule.
But the structure is not the important
part of his book. He knew the Australian
in Oxford in 1914-1918, where he made a
number of friendships among the Diggers
to whom he addresses his Impressions.
“Australia deserves the vigorous delight that
such men as Phil May can give,” he wrote
in one of his pars, in The Bulletin when
he was here, and the quotation may serve
as backbone to a note on the real content
of his book about us. He underlines this
vigor once or twice. He speaks of the
“collective vigor of the audience.” Again,
after facing another audience—“ You felt
a kind of gust of general will, insisting that
you be not trivial, nor conventional, but
sincere and yet no fool.” He mentions
that we are more likely to go all out for
what we want, good or bad, than to lapse
softly into it. He refers to our “directness
and simplicity.” Between the lines he got
us pretty right.
The rippling intimacj'- of his style, the
sincerity of his approach to the reader, is
the book’s greatest literary value. He
writes without a trace of “manner,” and
though necessarily the major part of his
business here was the Eucharistic Congress
and Catholic institutions, this Australian
quality of unaffected downright sincerity
gives his views an undenominational range.
There is, too, a certain glow of personality
in the pages, and we can trust what he says
because of the patent truth informing it.
Another obvious thing is that he liked us.
Visitors don’t like us as a rule—they don’t
stay long enough to get the strength of us;
but he, though he was on the jump (when
he wasn’t ill in hospital) all the time he was
here, saw through us, still liked us, and
cleared off (home to write this very good book
about us. He accuses us, with his friendly
intimate smile, of being “more apt to blaze
up into a sin” than to slop into one. He
says that we let things run away with us,
that we drink too much, and that we go in
for more horseracing than we or the future
can afford. He felt that wistfulness in 11s,
the wistfulness which Australian literature
has voiced for half a century, and which
has been successfully hidden from other
visitors. He rejoiced at the laughter in
The Bulletin, feeling the rarity of
laughter here. He really saw everything,
and says it in his radiant, hopeful way.
HILARY LOFTING.
A Satchel of Books
Nursery Life 300 Years Ago, by Lucy
Crump (Routledge). The Life is that of the
Dauphin, gathered painstakingly fi'om various
contemporary sources. Chiefly interesting for
the light it throws above, revealing character
through the interest taken in the child by
his elders. Illustrated and produced with
the usual Routledge finish.
The Blameless Sport, which is fishing, is
here followed with the diligence of the true
enthusiast, describing his excursions in
essays and verse in a book published by
Methuen that any member of the “blame
less” brotherhood can depend upon to keep
up his courage when they’re not biting or
the other inspiration has been emptied. Inter-
esting nature observations make its appeal
even wider.
Gift Books.- —Nelson’s Christmas bill o’
fare includes “The Smiths of Silver Lane,”
by Ethel Talbot (girls) ; “The Fight for
Honor,” by Bernard Bowles (boys) ; “The
Bannister Twins,” by Bessie Marchant (boys
or girls) ; “The Rajah’s Ruby,” by Arthur
O. Cooke (adventure) ; “The Nursery Book,”
“The Chummy Book,” “The Jolly Book for
Boys” and “The Jolly Book for Girls”
(young folk).
Aphrodite and the King’s Prisoner, by Laf-
cadio Hearn (Quandong Press; Gilmour’s
Bookshop, Sydney). Issued in an edition
limited to 250, Hearn’s fine piece of prose
makes a choice Christmas gift pamphlet, and
a cheap one (the price is 3s. 6d.). The paper
is good, and the illustrations include a re-
drawing by L. L. Gilmour of a woodcut
portrait of Ilcarn and a cleanly etched inter-
pretation of the central figures by V.
Cowdroy.
The Small Dark Man, by Maurice Walsh
(Cornstalk). Barrie is one of the author’s
many admirers, and this is understandable,
for Walsh might be Barrie in spots. His
story goes on and on, introducing, always
brightly, often pawkily, one odd Highland
character after another, and more particu-
larly Frances Mary, who astounds the
obtuse Hugh by confessing her love for him
in the last few lines. Great stuff for home-
sick Scots.
Young Mrs. Crossley (Heinemann) is not
Booth Tarkington at his exhilarating best.
A brilliant employee of a great business is
given promotion, and his feather-brained
wife, egged on by an even sillier friend,
decides that the domesticated managing
owner has designs on her. The last part
of the book, which is a good short-story
denouement gone wrong, describes her dis-
illusionment. The slightness of the plot is
more or less compensated for by some merci-
less studies of U.S.A. wives.
Karl Marx, by Otto Ruble (Allen and
Unwin). In this translation Eden and
Cedar Paul provide a companion volume to
their recent excellent rendering of “Capital.”
The historical background is carefully
sketched in, and though the life is not very
eventful, the evolving of Marx from a
paternal line of rabbis, through journalism
to being a teacher of influence in his own
day and much more since, makes reasonably
engaging biography. The book is freely
illustrated and indexed, wflth chronological
table, bibliography and a survey of Marx's
work.
Black Majesty, by John W ! . Vandercook
(Harpers: Robertson and Mullens). This
is a flamboyant but highly interesting his-
tory of the extraordinary negro who turned
Haiti into a republic and then into a king-
dom, created a black aristocracy with names
like Count of Limonade and Duke of Mar-
melade, defeated the armies of Napoleon,
converted a desolated countryside into a
garden, built the gigantic palace of San
Souci and the even more stupendous fortress
of La Ferriere 3000 ft. above sea-level, and
then went mad in the approved style of
tyrants, black, white or tawny.
The Return of the Scarecrow, by Alfred
Noyes (Cassell; Dymocks). Best known as
a poet and critic, the writer is revealed here
as a humorist of the highest order. A prig-
gish parson has his clothes stolen, skulks
about for several days and nights naked, and
eventually slinks home, cured of his affec-
tations, in the rags lie has taken from a scare-
crow. There arc some first-class parodies of
modern verse, and a number of telling re-
bukes levelled at literary impostors. Un-
fortunately they are a little out of the pic-
ture at times, and they hold up the action
of a novel which should have been all move-
ment and laughter.
*
In a slight shortening of an article by
A. G. Stephens (R.P. 23/10/’29). Mr.
Stephens was made to say “Arts students—
still sometimes ardently employed in mem-
orising lists of British kings.” Mr. Stephens
requests a correction. They are not.
Answers to Correspondents.
IV. (e T v>o, . Ko,m, 'Haracer, ol
Name and address must appear on the Mis. Liao ,uiy is u »
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unhss stamps accompany.
Fen: Very close up. Let’s hear more... .
C. : It doesn’t start as well as it finishes....
Henry W. R.: Let’s have a look at it, anyway....
Geo. G.: We’re going to try to do something of the
sort after we’re 50....J.P.: The “Wild Cat” gave
you plenty of warnings about the New Era. The
first was published 28/8/’24 ; and there were others
down to 22/2/’29 K.G.: As a poet you are a rank
failure; but your handwriting is lovely... .Rys:
“Please, is this a poem?” Thank you, it is not. .. .
G.T.: No room for its kind, but you might market
it somewhere. .. .E.McM.: To begin with, only a
little of it is verse. If you can make it all scan,
we’d like to swap tuning-forks... .R.H.: No time for
posting criticisms. The verse keeps well to the
middle of a worn road... . J. 8.: “Haunting Mem-
ories” overcome with the aid of concentration and
a bottle of Pelman.... Head T.: Shame !: —-
She stepped off the tram at Darlinghurst,
Her handbag is clutched under her arm.
Could she get through that place accurst
And not come to any harm?
No. See, through the shadows slinking comes
From a street that leads down to the slums,
A Thing depraved! A blow, a snatch!
Gone are her hard-earned w’ages and the key of
her latch.
. ...D.H.: Touches on melodrama,.. .J.D.: Can’t
get excited over the bridge. . Parody suffers the
customaay fate... .D.8.0’C.: You can be more
interesting than that.... Darken: Improvement, but
not enough.... N. 8.: “The Far North Calls the
Viking.” Don’t think much of its blank-verse voice.
... .H.D.: All very correct, but they say nothing. .. .
Smokedrift: Good points. Pity you let it flop in
the end 67: Isn’t that the joke a small boy
scribbled on the Ark? 0.L.D.: No use abusing
the editor in those pallid terms... .H.F.: Too early
to say some of it. Too late to say the rest....
T.D.V.: Not our fare at all P.McQ.: That war’s
over... .G. 8.: Doesn’t live up to its arresting title.
G.J.A.: Most come direct to us from publishers,
whose names are always given. Prices on jackets
are net; a variable advance is made on them in
Australia C.W.P.: Sheets such as the one listed
are not representative of Australia, and no one
whose opinion matters thinks they are....E.W.:
Sorry; try the paper which published the provoca-
tion. .. .E. 0.: “Collections” doesn’t fit. The other
might d 0... .8.E.: It’s a weak case. .. .E.C.: Agree
that it is quite a good yarn, though we would not
say it “was up to the highest specifications”
D. : Might go down somewhere as a lecturette.
Doesn’t appeal as an article M.J.W.: Most of
that has been said in paragraphs 8.E.: Australian-
accent topic compulsorily retired for ten years....
R.G.McD.: Try S. M. Herald T.C.8.: Had a
chance, but space beat it....J.L8. (Yokohama):
Too abstract. Something vital and concrete would
be welcome. .. .F. 0.: Has been reviewed; no further
space available for it A.A.1.: Same applies to
your article W. J.C.: Can’t find it a home
J.N.: “Nor’-West o’ West,” by H. E. Riemann
(Angus and Robertson). Get it —it’s a fine book.
... .U.C.8.: No space there for mere wordiness.
. ...R.D.: Reads like an exercise... .Elbatt: All off
the track.... L.MacG.: Very good stuff in both. She
should keep on J.G.: Couldn’t find any suggestion
of asphodel in “The Old Garden”.... Smoke-drift:
Drifted... .A.C.VV.: Can’t plant-out the wattle-tree.
C.V.N.: ’Plane tale crashed E.F.: No room
for Massia on his steed “bucking like a raging
inferno”.... Blow-lamp: Not to be touched with a
40ft. pole L.C.R.: “Crotchets of Fate” dismissed
without a quaver 5.8. C.: Interesting view of
life seen through the eyes of 15.... N. O. Hope: Too
true. .. .M.A.: Piffle. .. .F.F.: First time we have
heard of jackeroos associated with doves T.J.W.:
Eventful history but not suitable here; better in
book form L. 5.8.: No £ s. d E.11.J.: Choom
and neddie a too-oft-told tale... . W.G.8.: Not
enough in it. .. .W.A.R.A.: Had to shut out Auntie,
“absolutely the world’s worst in prunes”. .. .D.N.:
“Fire Bug” guilty—death. .. .Ganderson: It’s going
home. . . .A.A.W.: Don’t care for your Priscilla....
N.S.: Pub story as spotted as a leopard... .N.L.:
Rather like the thing, but this is not the place
for it....E.L.: Too slight for a story F.L.:
Thanks for introduction to lady who “managed
without artifice to be good-looking and intelligent
at the same time”... .N. 8.8.: Crude in style and
construction F. 11.: No time for reveries. .. .0.T.:
Garrard was M.L.A. foil' Balmain 1880-91, far
Central Cumberland ’9l-’94, and for Sherbrooke.
’94-’9B. .. .C.C.C.: Webb was general manager of
the Missouri, Kansas and Texas system; he had
previously been with the Colorado and Southern
and the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe manage-
ments H. 8.: Have a heart! Your attempt to
rhyme “cynosure” with “enclosure” made our Verse
Editor gnash his teeth in impotent fury H.T.R. :
“Doorway” and “Norway” might pass, but “orisons”
and “horizons” won’t S.H.F.: Thank you, we’ll
pass it on to the author.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.D.: Don’t know whether you are an artist.
You haven’t submitted any evidence... .P.E.F.: You
could copyright drawings, but why bother ?.. . .
S.M.R.: Doubt whether you’ll ever be anything more
than a good tradesman; still, no harm in trying. ...
G.C.: Surf siren left stranded... .L.J.: Gag has all the
marks of a doddering old age... .H.D.: Scrap archaic
jokes, or you’ll sell nothin'g... .U.S.: Hurried
scratches C.H.T.: You know little about anatomy
and less about perspective. .. .W. 8.: Don’t use the
brush as if it were a floor-mop... .J.E.: Not passed
along to process engraver... .L.M.: Unless you use a
fixative (white shellac and methylated spirits will
do), your charcoal sketches will always smudge.
P.G.: You need an art teacher and a sense of
humor, for a start K.L.J.: Not above catalogue-
illustration level N.L.: Yes, we noticed the
“oblique line work”. . . .R.W.: If they’re drawn from
memory you could do with a course of Pelmanisrn.
A.T.: No use for scissors-and-paste stuff.


9
mis
iKS'vss*
pyijmflgi
: •
S' : 11 1'
■I
——
msmsm
£J
Wm, wMa .
■
n
I m
-i
;
■
itM3
■
aMHHi
■-
■
. ~,
#y,»
NIGHTMARCH,
Winner of the Melbourne Cup,
1929.
Owner - - - - A. Louisson.
Trainer - - - - A. McAulay.
Jockey - - - - R. Reed.
Weight - - - - 9st. 21b.
Time- - - - - 3min. 26^sec.


The Bulletin
-VdTsor—No. 2597.
November 20, 1929.
THE BOOTSKI.
The hand was the hand of Scullin, but the foot was the foot of Moscow.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the While Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
214 George Street, Sydney; Box 252188.
Victoria : 114-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 249 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Wiostralia : S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Regent 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly : 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d. ;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12'months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. Cd.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: lOoz., Id. United Kingdom4°z. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional 1/oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: 4oz. or part thereof,
Id. Klseivhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
READING POETRY, by Hugh McCrae . . 2
AUSTRALIA & SITAKSPEARE, by Cecil Mann 2
THE RISEN SUN, by Father Martindale . . 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . . . 5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
A JOB FOR BRUCE 8
AUSTRALIAN FINANCE—THREE ALTER-
NATIVES . . . .' 8
HOW GERMANY SPREADS ITS NET FOR
U.S.A. 8
WOOL AND WHAT’S WRONG 8
A CONTINENT IN SEARCH OF A COHEN.. 9
WHEN PROFITS ARE NOT PROFITS . . 9
UNCLE SAM AND DISARMAMENT . . . . 9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 9
POLITICAL POINTS 10
POVERTY POINT .. 11
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL . . . . . . 11
PERSONAL (with caricatures of Steele Rudd
and others) *.. .. .. .. ..13
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. .. 14, 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..16
HOW A PLAY IS BROADCAST 16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS IS, 20
HERALD AND WEEKLY TIMES .. . . 18
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS 18
SMITH’S NEWSPAPERS 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 2.3, 25
Free Service Department .. 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 32
SUPER AND THE lIARD-UP FARMER . . 28
PROTEIN STARVATION OF STOCK . . . . 28
RAISINS FOR SHEEP 28
SELECTING YOUR FLOCK 28
A CHEAP STORAGE TANK 28
SMOKE-OH 34
PEN AND PICTURE 37
NEWEST TALKIES 37
AUSTRALIAN ART ASSOCIATION . . . . 37
SPORTING (illustrated) .. . . . . 39, 41, 42
RAND WICK RACES 39
CAULFIELD RACES 39
BUSINESS, ROBBERY 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 45
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 48
A REVIEW OF CUP FROCKERY . . . . 48
THE WILLIAMSTOWN RACING CLUB . . 48
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 50
“Merry Christmas!” .. .. 47, 51, 52
TWO COMPLETE SHORT STORIES—
“AT STINGRAY HARBOR”—
By J. H. M. Abbott .. .. 55, 57
“EAST IS EAST,” by H. K. Adamson . . 57, 58
VERSE. —By Dr. Souter, Lola Gornall, S.
Talbot Smith, M. Forrest, E. J. Brady
15, 23, 52, 58
The Great “Christmas Bulletin,”
December 7.
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1929.
A JOB FOR BRUCE.
All the world likes a good loser. W. M.
Hughes proved a bad one, and it is largely
the secret of his failure to rise again. The
faithful Ryrie left him in disgust at his
pettiness in defeat; the loyal Poynton re-
pudiated him; he has now lost even Dicky
Foster, judging by the publication of the
“Janus” letter. And a deposed leader sulk-
ing in his tent and planning to get even
with his successor gains no new adherents.
S. M. Bruce, on the other hand, has
shown himself the best of losers. His down-
fall was tremendous and quite unexpected;
yet it has left him undiscouraged and
serene. Regret he naturally felt, and he
has expressed it; but in his references to
himself, to his companions in misfortune,
to his victorious opponents and the country
which has rejected him there is not an
angry or ungenerous word. He has re-
proached no one, and not one of his defeated
supporters has reproached him. The time
will assuredly come when Flinders and the
Commonwealth will reverse the verdict they
gave on October 12. Promises were made
during the election campaign which can
never be redeemed; the dishonest pledge
that the northern coalmines would be re-
opened “within a fortnight” has already
gone down the wind; and things are being
done (notably the suspension of military
training) which were not in the bond. A
reaction is inevitable, and the Assembly
by-elections in Victoria and Queensland
suggest that it has already begun. But
a swing to the Right as pronounced
as the swing to the Left last month will
be of little benefit to Australia unless
Nationalism has in the meantime been
reformed, root and branch, or has given
place to a stronger and more resolute party.
With all his fine qualities, Mr. Bruce
will never be able to accomplish much with-
out able lieutenants who have a contempt
for mere vote-catching, and these the
National Federation does not supply. It is
short of men, its methods are antiquated
where they are not puerile, and it stands
for nothing in particular. It clings to a
fatuous mode of pre-selection which allows
small cliques of nonentities who pay a shil-
ling a head for the privilege to say who
shall stand as Nationalists and who shan’t.
Now and then a Latham, a Kent Hughes
or a Menzies bursts through this barrier,
but it is always repaired, and the branding
of submissive hacks by bob-a-nob selectors
goes on. In the State Nationalist parties
chosen in this way there is a depressing lack
of courage and enthusiasm, and what they
haven’t got they can’t inspire. Though the
Victorian group is in office and has no allies,
it is contesting only 38 of the 65 Leg.
Assembly seats; yet not long ago it held
41. And the N.S.W. Nationalist Govern-
ment, though fully aware that the Child
Endowment business is stifling industry,
fattening idlers and prolonging the disas-
trous coal stoppage, is afraid to do away
with the crazy thing lest it lose votes.
“Nationalism,” so called, is a pallid imi-
tation of Laborism in many respects. It
follows the Labor-socialists in trying to
coddle people from the cradle to the grave.
It ought to be the party of opportunity
and self-reliance as distinguished from the
party of paternalism. Instead of overload-
ing the State with the burden of manufac-
turing jobs, it ought to aim at establishing
conditions in which jobs abound and the
best people get them.
The party will have to be reorganised
and informed with a new spirit; and obvi-
ously Mr. Bruce should grapple with the
task. No one is better qualified for it or
could count on a greater measure of assist-
ance and support. It is no compliment to
the ex-Priminister that his party should be
looked upon as the lesser of two evils. Yet
that is how it is regarded by fully three-
fourths of the people who vote for it.
THE THREE ALTERNATIVES.
Trade figures for the first (July-August-
September) quarter of the financial year
have been issued. Exports were £14,925,142
short of the imports which they are alleged
to pay for; in this respect the position was
over £5,000,000 worse than for the same
period last year. The situation would be
worse still but for the fact that the Com-
monwealth has begun to export by instal-
ments the gold reserve held against its
note issue, an expedient which can only be
carried to a certain point without serious
danger, and at the best can only ease the
situation for a little while.
There are three ways of dealing with the
situation. One is by a drastic prohibition
of exports which can be done without; and
the number which can be done without is
legion. This would be permanent relief.
Another is by borrowing all the millions
that the country is short—borrowing them
abroad and in gold, for local paper money
doesn’t apply to such a case as this. Even
if such a tremendous sum can be got this
year, which is highly improbable, it can’t
be got every year, neither can the Com-
monwealth’s gold reserve be exported every
year. So this wouldn’t be even reliable tem-
porary relief. The third expedient is to
stop paying interest on the external debt;
in other words, repudiate. What kind of
relief this might be would depend on how
two powerful external Governments, urged
to action by two armies of external credi-
tors, would take the loss, which would be
large enough to excite any creditor. Failure
which is not the result of any national mis-
fortune, but the outcome of bad govern-
ment and riotous living, doesn’t arouse sym-
pathy, especially if the bankrupt has em-
phasised his ability to pay by libraries of
literature about his great natural resources.
It smells too much of premeditated dis-
honesty; at any rate, the creditors may say
so in a moment of excitement. A similar
event has led before now to the temporary
suspension of the defaulting Government,
and the placing of its finances under cap-
able foreign experts.
A frequent and reassuring statement is
that Australia has had crises before, and
that its solid recuperative powers always
dragged it through, as they are capable of
doing again. The favorite example is the
trouble of 1891-92-93. But that was a
crisis among financial institutions, and Gov-,
ernments were only affected by the back-
wash. In fact, they weathered it almost
without recourse to loans. The public debt
per head was about one-quarter what it is
now, and the interest rate was low, whereas
it is now high. The suffering community
numbered 2\ millions less than it is to-
day. And the recuperative force which,
apart from hard work, came to the rescue
was the second gold boom, which mani-
fested itself about 1893, and reached its
glorious climax—the highwater-mark of
Australia’s gold production—in 1903. Now
the gold yield is down to the lowest point
recorded since 1851, and no one can guaran-
tee another recuperation of the sort. All
later crises were tided over, and all later
recuperations were managed in a sort of
way, by the aid of big external loans. Now
there is a growing uncertainty about big
external loans.
Compared with the problem of the
adverse trade balance, the questions which
mostly agitate the Multitude at the moment
are dust and ashes, including redistribution
of seats, child endowment, elective Minis-
tries, the sinfulness of taxing Yankee pic-
ture shows—even the neglect to prosecute
John Brown.
Much stress has been laid on the value
of agriculture as a means of salvation; but
the facts are not comforting. The industry
is an extraordinarily precarious one. The net
values of agricultural exports (the amounts
by which exports exceeded agricultural im-
ports, and consequently the sum available
to keep the national ship afloat) over six
recent years, have been as follows:—-
1922- .. £9,712,736 | 1925-26 ..£24,171,702
1923- . . 14,622,911 | 1926-27 . . 22,943,134
1924- . . 40,135,510 | 1927-28 . . 21,033,374
Never in Australian history was there an-
other year like 1924-25 for big crops com-
bined with high prices. Yet even in that
year of phenomenal agricultural exports,
imports of “metals, metal manufactures and
machinery” cost £45,594,102, so all agricul-
ture put together didn’t pay for that one
item.
But while, in spite of its agricultural and
other efforts, Australia may fail to make
more money by selling more abroad, it can
with absolute certainty save a great deal
more by buying less abroad. The new
Federal Ministry has promised to take the
matter in hand with energy, and it is to
be hoped that it will practise velocity as
well. For delay" is dangerous. Foreign loans
are very scarce. The raising of temporary
overdrafts from outside banks has gone very
far, and the sale of the Commonwealth
Bank’s gold reserve has already gone a good
way. A Government which plans for a
three weeks’ session of three or four days
a week, and then an 11 weeks’ rest, hasn’t
provided time for drafting and passing a
new tariff. But a bill providing for the
prohibition of a long list of imports, of the
kind that the Commonwealth can struggle
along without, could be put through in the
coming session, especially if the Govern-
ment was willing to lengthen the session till
a decision was reached. And no other
scheme offers a tithe of the chances for
providing much-needed employment.
THE AMERICAN SEES GERMANY.
A remarkable feature of post-war Germany
is the thoroughness and apparent purpose
with which the cheaper kind of American
tourist traffic is organised. Apart from the
small proportion of wealthy Americans who
travel independently, and the still smaller
proportion who visit the Continent for
really educative reasons, the general pro-
cedure is somewhat as follows. An Ameri-
can farmer or mechanic or small-town mer-
chant saves up a thousand dollars. This
sum would yield very little in the way of
real holidaying at home, but for less than half
of it he can buy a return ticket on the big
one-class liners, covering also all expenses
of a conducted tour in Germany for a
month. There is thus about £lOO over
wherewith to play at millionaires on the
way.
Arrived at Hamburg he is taken charge
of by the tremendously efficient tourist
organisation, and is conducted round a cir-
cuit of German cities and shown places with
great speed and thoroughness, in a constant
atmosphere of propaganda carefully designed
to flatter his national and personal pride. He
has no language difficulties, no tickets to
take or trains to look up; everyone he meets
is smiling and pleased to see him. He is
given ostensibly secret and individual
opportunities for acquiring at.bargain rates
art treasures and other souvenirs of his
visit, of dimensions which enable them to
be readily smuggled on his return—this is
becoming quite a large and flourishing
branch of German industry.
Daily he absorbs elementary doses of
German art, German science, German music,
German architecture and German culture,
all so simply and clearly put that no
thought is required. The triumphs of Ger-
man industrialism are demonstrated to him,
with the flattering admission that only the
noble conduct of America in protecting
Germany against the post-war aggressions of
England and France have made these pos-
sible. If he is in trade he usually responds
by placing an order or two which will assist
in helping on so good a cause.
He is permitted to view, even to con-
verse with, actual living specimens of the
ancient German aristocracy. Over all this
proud scene of high life there extends the
rosy glow of cheap and good drinks from
which none need fear methyl-poisoning or
those other trade risks which attend upon
the products of even the wealthiest and
most respected of bootleggers in the land
of the brave and the free.
It is small wonder that before he has
proceeded far on this rose-strewn path he
is in a very receptive frame of mind for
any point of view which favors so delight-
ful a country, and, incidentally, flatters his
own. Even if he is not already wearing
an inscribed button or some other legible
and tactful reminder that America Won
the War, the fact is freely admitted by
his genial hosts and friends, with the clear
corollary that America can win any darned
old war she wants to. America, he is told,
is Germany’s saviour. For did not America
save that country from the combination of
bloodthirsty, hypocritical bandits who
forced a war on her in 1914? Does that
so clever young American not know that
England was the first country to use poison
gas in warfare, in the form of lyddite shells
during the Boer War? The former Kaiser
may not have been as great as they once
thought him, but he was so shocked at this
inhumane proceeding that he made the
British stop it. They never forgave him.
Also England used it first in the late war,
and it was only as a consequence of failure
to secure its discontinuance that long-
suffering Germany at last retaliated in kind.
Does he not know that England used dum-
dum bullets in the Boer War —a practice
invented by Baden Powell, who was re-
cently made a lord 'as a reward for the
job? Does he not know that Germany lives
in constant terror of attack by the savage
negro troops whom France keeps on the
Rhine, and relies only on the Great Ameri-
can Nation to save her?
This and much more is amongst the out-
standing recollections carried back from
Germany by many thousands of Americans
yearly. It may be listened to by anyone
who cares to mix with one of the special
tourist parties and is able to refrain from
comment. It is not, of course, for the edu-
cated American traveller; it is for the great
class which brings to the study of European
politics only dim memories of . a school
course of “American History” in which the
cruel oppressor, England, was defeated
gloriously at Bunker Hill over a matter
of tea, and later impressions of what some
of the home-town papers said when the
brave Doughboys went across to bang the
heads of the European nations together
until they stopped fighting and interfering
with trade. But it is excellent stuff to talk
about afterwards. The cheap tourist sees
himself as the lifelong authority of his
shop or office on inside European politics.
Now and then strange results accrue.
Contemplating one sunny afternoon, the
vast ruins of the Schloss at Heidelberg, I
was suddenly cut off from escape by an
American tourist party. After an excellent
brief review of the history of the building,
the German bearleader pointed out the
great fallen tower, blown into the moat by
the French after the siege in 1689. A
masterful lady, clearly the intellectual
leader of her home-town back in the Middle
West, became very angry. “Say! That’s
too bad!” she exclaimed indignantly.
“Spoiling a luverly place like that!
Amurrica would never have allowed
it if she’d been on the League of
Nations.” No power on earth will ever
now convince that worthy dame that the
French Army of Occupation did not in
1919 destroy the Schloss as an act of re-
venge after the war.
Thus is contemporary European history
being made for American home consump-
tion amongst the millions who express their
inherent freedom at stated intervals by
voting as their political bosses prescribe.
PUYYAKA.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Wool and What’s Wrong.
We have such unbounded faith in our wool
clip that we allow ourselves to be bluffed
and bludgeoned out of manufacturing it
ourselves. We let foreigners take it away,
let 'them use our material and trade with
our goods—in short, run our favorite. Now,
as a reward for our folly, we are told that our
favorite hasn’t been running well, and that
the second favorite, Artificial, is winning
or has won the race. But we still don’t
see many broken-down wool manufacturers
in Yorkshire, neither do we see them in the
French, German, Belgian, Swiss or Italian
textile districts. And there are allegedly
millionaire proprietors of woollen mills in
Japan. Probably there will be the same
in China before we wake up to the fact
that it is not much use owning and backing
favorites unless we run them as well.
The buyers keep up the cry that they
don’t know how all the wool in the world
is to be consumed. The proprietors of
manufactured and semi-manufactured stocks
across 13 thousand miles of water tell them
to say this, and possibly they believe the
story themselves —they don’t mind believ-
ing it, because they know they may be
able to make more money out of wood than
they can out of wool.
Australians want to realise that York-
shire became a wool-manufacturing centre
largely because it was a wool-producing
country first. Flemish weavers went over
there in Elizabethan times because the wool
was handy, and wily old Queen Bess gave
them plenty of encouragement to do so.
We are told, though, that we could not
possibly make a success of wool manufac-
turing—our own community is too small
to consume our whole output, and we could
never hope to export manufactured goods.
It is little more than 100 years since
Macarthur failed to float a £lO,OOO com-
pany in England to undertake wool grow-
ing in Australia. He was given to under-
stand that his scheme was quite hopeless.
So have a hundred other schemes been
until we have made a success of them.
We will also be told that this stuff made
out of wood is a cheaper textile material
than wool. It is, but it is not half so good;
and, after all, the cost of the raw material
bears little relation to the cost of the
finished article.
Let the world and its women have their
artificial silk. There is room for it. But
there are more people in the world who
have never worn wool than there are who
have. It is not too late to educate them.
We have to educate ourselves first, though.
We must learn that we can’t trust any-
body but ourselves to handle our favorite.
So our cry should be not only “Use more
wool,” but “Manufacture more wool.”


THANK GOD WE HAVE A NAVY!
“The new Federal Government has decided to abolish compulsory military training, but will maintain a skeleton force.”
A Continent in Search of a Cohen.
The Federal Loan Council met last May
and decided on a liberal policy of borrow-
ing, for State and Federal purposes, here
and overseas; but it didn’t get any of the
money. It met again in August, and, recog-
nising that times are hard, it cut a few
millions off its programme. But still it
didn’t get the money, except a mere
£5,000,000 for a year at over 62 per cent.
Then Bruce-Paoe went out and Scullidore
came in. While this was happening a trifle
was raised by bank overdrafts and sales
of bonds “over the counter,” but the market
for big finance remained petrified. A
£10,000,000 paper-money loan has just been
put on the local market; but no overseas
gold loan to meet overseas liabilities has
been attempted since the five-million one-
year transaction was put through by the
deceased Ministry to stave off disaster. On
Monday, November 11, the Council met once
more. The State Premiers were present to
implore that the State loan estimates, which
were cut down last August, should be
restored to the original figure, mostly to
relieve unemployment by means of unpro-
ductive works. They were told that it
would be inadvisable to make any poverty-
stricken “gesture” of the kind.
Meantime the Australian trader, and in
some cases even the Australian manufac-
turer, is finding himself in difficulties. If
he buys raw material or partially or wholly
manufactured goods or anything else on
the other side, he has to pay in gold.
Hitherto except during one or two very
black periods in our history it has been
always possible to get gold for this pui’-
pose; though sometimes it has cost a good
deal of money. Now, however, the point
has been reached when Australian banks
have been obliged to warn their import-
ing clients that it may not be possible to
arrange payments for them abroad: we are
not exporting enough to build up credits
in London, and just at present we cannot
borrow, which is the other way of estab-
lishing credits. For the moment the action
of the banks will more or less curtail im-
ports; but as soon as another gold loan has
been raised abroad, up will spring the im-
ports again unless we can check them in
some other way.
♦
Profits That Are Not Profits.
The Bulletin gave attention lately to the
matter of true profits, and urged that the
Coal Commission came not only to a wrong
but to a mischievous conclusion when it de-
cided not to take amortisation into account
in arriving at profits. This paper is glad
to know that the Council of the Association
of Accountants of Australia (Incorporated)
has had the whole question under review,
with the result that the following letter has
been addressed to. the Premier of N. S.
Wales:—
Re Royal Commission on Coal Industry.
I have been asked by the Council of this
Association to bring under the notice of his
Excellency the Governor, in connection with
the interim report of the above Commission
dated 21st September, 1929, the following
views of this Council of the Association of
Accountants of Australia :
Inter alia, the report states (page 7) :
Amortisation Allowances in respect of Freehold
and Leasehold Collieries.
The Commission refused to allow any deduction
against cost of production under this heading. The
expenditure incurred in such undertakings as col-
lieries for the purpose of acquiring title, sinking
shafts or tunnels and developing the mines per-
manently for work is regarded as capital sunk once
for all. Investors look for the return of their capital
in the dividends they hope to receive.
The Commission states that this view was
’supported by the highest legal authority, and
whilst admitting that there is no legal obli-
gation on the directors to accurately deter-
mine the profits by the inclusion of proper
provision for wasting capital, the view of
this association is that correct accounts
cannot be made up unless provision is made
out of revenue for such amortisation.
The fact that legal decision permits direc-
tors to pay dividends without making pro-
vision for wasting capital does not justify
accounting which will not make clear what
are profits. Without proper provision for
this item, cost is not correctly ascertained,
profit is not correctly stated and dividends
paid are paid without any clear indication
as to how much represents return of capital
and how much represents actual profit earned.
It is obvious that profit cannot be earned
until the capital is retained intact.
This test must be applied to all industries,
and collieries are no exception to the rule.
These conclusions support those of The
Bulletin in every particular.
*
Uncle Sam and Disarmament.
President Hoover has been hailed by Aus-
tralian Labor pacifists as a leading exponent
of the doctrine that desirable countries can
purchase immunity from invasion by dis-
arming, and so shaming warlike neighbors
into disarming too. His Armistice Day
speech shows that he does not share this
infatuated belief.
The world is at peace, the President said,
but it is an armed peace. Including active
reserves there are nearly ten million more
men under arms now than there were in the
middle of 1914, and “there are fears, dis-
trusts and smouldering injuries among the
nations which are the tinder of war.” Nor
does anything in human experience, he de-
clared, “warrant the assumption that war
cannot occur again.” Something can be
done to “broaden goodwill,” but not by
isolated pacifism:—
“We must reduce and limit warships by
agreement only. I have no faith in reduction
of armaments by example alone. Until the
nations can build agencies for the pacific
settlement of disputes on stronger founda-
tions, until fear has been proved groundless
by long proof of international honesty, until
the power of world public opinion as a
restraint of aggression has had many years’
test, there will not have been established
that confidence which warrants abandonment
of preparedness for defence among the
nations. To do so may invite war.”
Before the Great War the U.S.A. had
10 Dreadnoughts, 23 cruisers, 42 destroyers
and 23 submarines. Last year, under the
programme modified by the Washington
Agreement, it had 18 Dreadnoughts, 32
cruisers, 262 destroyers and 122 submarines.
When Uncle Sam talks reduction of arma-
ments by agreement, it is to his immense
navy that he refers, and to that alone. He
has no thought of weakening the splendid
air service that he has built up since the
war or the land force which he has so sub-
stantially increased. Last year he had
134,500 men in his Regular Army, 181,000
in the National Guard (the strength of
which may be raised to 435,000), 115,000
in the Officers’ Reserve Corps (mostly 1917-
18 men), and 112,000 in the Reserve Offi-
cers’ Training Corps. These are both post-
war formations; the Reserve Officers’ Train-
ing Corps are mostly university and second-
ary-school students who are passed into the
Officers’ Reserve Corps after four years,
with six weeks in a summer camp.
Hoover is of course Commander-in-Chief
of the army and navy (of which the air
service is an integral part), as well as
President. He is known to have an affec-
tion for Australia, of which he was once a
resident, and he would most certainly have
the strongest objection to being paraded
as an advocate of unconditional disarma-
ment whose example the Commonwealth,
with its policy of excluding the colored
races, might safely follow. Any-price paci-
fists creep into the Parliament at Canberra;
they don’t get into the White House.
♦
Intricacies of the Law.
A decision lately arrived at by the N.S.W.
Court of Criminal Appeal put the fraudulent
solicitor on a greatly improved footing. In
this case Gentleman One had been convicted
of hanging on to money entrusted to him
by a client for a specific purpose, and the
clause under which he was convicted reads
thus:—
“Whosoever having received or collected
any money under any authority, upon terms
requiring him to pay, apply, deliver or ac-
count to any person for the same, and fraudu-
lently appropriates or fraudulently omits to
account in violation of the terms upon which
he received such moneys, shall be liable to
prosecution.”
It seems simple enough, and in the course
of a quarter-century many legal gentlemen
have gone to reside in commodious stone
buildings on the strength of it.
But an ingenious gentleman of the
Sampson Brass profession dug up a new
reading in his time of trouble, and the
Court accepted it. It was to the effect
that the words “any person” don’t include
the person from whom the money was
“received or collected,” though he may con-
sider himself as important as anybody else.
If client Smith entrusts his fortune, or
part of it, to attorney Shark to invest for
his benefit, it really appears that he can
be robbed of the lot with impunity. But
if Jones, a third party, entrusts Shark
with the money to be invested for and
accounted for to Smith, or if Smith
himself hands it over to be accounted
for to his future widow, also a third
party, the making away with the
estate becomes punishable. The clause
doesn’t seem to stipulate about any third
party, but he has been suddenly brought
in by inference or something. The K.C.
who represented the State pointed out that
a N.S.W. Court decided 25 years ago that
a solicitor was responsible for money en-
trusted to him by his client but not for
money entrusted by a third person on
behalf of the client. So the new statute
was devised to make him liable for funds
put in his hands by either person, and
the long-delayed discovery is now made
that it has missed its mark, and only
changed the identity of the person who can
have his money taken away.
The direct client, it appears, can have
satisfaction under another and apparently
less-known statute, but only if he gave his
lawyer “specific and explicit directions in
writing” how to apply the money and how
not to make away with it. If he can’t
prove the directions, or if Gentleman One
loses them, it seems that client Smith
will fall in again. “No conviction will lie,”
though the defaulter certainly will.
Should it be decided to amend the
strangely and suddenly deficient statute,
there remains the question whether it is
possible to devise a new one which will
make gaol accessible to the man who omits
to account for trust money no matter whose
it may be. In fact, is it possible to devise
a Judge-proof law?
» .
Talking Overseas.
The disturbance caused by the Beam’s
advent into the lield of communications has
been settled in a way that seems very
satisfactory. The communications co.
which has taken over the business of both
■wireless and cables in the Cold Land will
control matters at the European end, while
this end will be' under Australian control
with the Commonw’ealth Government super-
vising matters in the interests of taxpayers
and cable-users generally. In Sydney the
Pacific office and staff and gear will be
moved into the office of the Eastern Exten-
sion, and in Melbourne the staff of that
company will transfer to the Pacific office.
A drastic reduction of personnel is a
necessary corollary, and whatever may hap-
pen to the Government-owned Pacific cable
staff, the private company’s men will be
reasonably treated. Superfluous men have
been invited to go to the “East,” or alter-
natively to accept a retiring allowance
gauged by their length of service.
In the absence of any real competition
between the different organisations, to main-
tain a multiplicity of offices would have
been folly; the cost would have to be borne
by the public. The Beam is now carrying
75 p.c. of the total traffic, and the enor-
mous speed at which it can work enables
it to get over the periods of fading which
still afflict the wireless route. At the same
time the cables will still be available in a
state of efficiency should the country need
them in the event of war.


OAEUq
E&CIAL- RESERVE
RED, WHITE and BLUE
WHISKY
Gaelic Special Reserve
DEARER— BUT BETTER
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO., LTD.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN AGENTS: JAMES HENTY & CO., 499 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: B. SEPPELT & SONS, LTD., 444 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
V.
IfiiCiAL - RESERN
rvs WKiSW
POLITICAL
POINTS
It is one thing to suspend compulsory
training; it is another to repeal the com-
pulsory provisions of the Defence Act. The
Opposition Senators can make the latter
impossible if they stand firm. Scullin and
Theodore will never dare to send both Houses
to the country on such an issue. Even if
the civilian members stood aside the
Nationalist Senators who have worn A.I.F.
uniform (Glasgow, Elliott, Cox, Sampson,
Thompson, Cooper, Foil and Duncan) could
out-vote the Labor team.
According to Scullin, “the experience of
the war proved that,
provided there is a
highly skilled nucleus
of officers, it is pos-
sible to train large
bodies of volunteers
within a compara-
tively short period.”
Senator “Pompey”
Elliott has challenged
this assertion, and,
having served two
years in South Africa
and been with the
A.I.F. from first to
last, he has had more
experience of war
than the 13 Labor
Ministers combined.
“Pompey” points out
that it took the U.S.A.
15 months to put a
trained force in the
field, and even then
American soldier s,
brave as they were,
“showed an ignorance
of the rudiments of
military knowledge
that was pitiful and
Senator “Pompey”
Elliott.
appalling.” Yet Uncle
Sam had “a highly skilled nucleus” of regu-
lar troops and heaps of Allied instructors.
“If Labor is returned,” said the gentleman
who is now Federal Treasurer, “the N.S.W.
northern coalmines will be reopened within
a fortnight. The owners must reopen the
mines,” he thundered, “or the Labor Gov-
ernment will reopen them in the name of
the people.” Then the mountain labored
and brought forth a coal tribunal without
powers, a very expensive coal commission
(also without powers) being already in
existence. Now the Government which was
going to do such heroic things reports at
the end of its first month that the still-idle
miners are “very dissatisfied with the pro-
nouncement made by the coal tribunal.”
No crueller trick was ever played on the
electorate.
The last of many appeals by Premier
Bavin to the coal-union oligarchy evoked
the usual reply. The miners will take all
the wage increases they can get in good
times, and they have had a few, but as
for standing one reduction in bad times they
would rather live on charity in the form
of Government rations and child endowment
and by blackmail levied on their fellow-
workers and the fellow-workers’ families in
the shape of union levies. Bavin proposes
to start some of the pits under Government
management. This will prove whether the
men really prefer charity-cwm-blackmail to
honest work at what will still be the highest
coalmining wages in the world; but it is
too late in the day for any experiment in
State socialism to excite enthusiasm.
Before coming out for Nunawading,
Menzies, K.G., an-
nounced that he
wouldn’t submit to
pre - selection by
the Nat.-Fed. —and
he didn’t. In his
opening speech he
said that the times
were too serious
for political jug
glery, and that the
Nationalists would
have to stop bid-
ding for votes re-
gardless of prin-
ciples : “If Nation-
alism is to cease to
be a dwindling
minority it will
have to cease say-
ing, ‘Let us get as
close as we can to
the Labor people’s
policy without
actually joining
them.’ ” The Nat.-
Fed. is indignant,
but the young man
continues on his
iconoclastic way.
Bob Menzies—a
very unusual
Nationalist.
Coteries of a few hundred, beaten up for
pre-selection polls, now settle who shall re-
present 300,000 metropolitan electors in Vic.
Assembly. Eleven Laborites picked in this
hole-and-corner fashion have been returned
unopposed. Of course, if the other side had
decided to give them a run for their money
its nominees would have been chosen by even
smaller cabals. The new People’s party pro-
poses to make pre-selection unlawful, and
unlawful the swindle should be.
Doubtful Assembly seats in Victoria are
Albert Park (held by Eton. Minister Cuth-
bertson), Oakleigh (Reid, Lab.), Essendon
(Drakeford, Lab.), Bulla-Dalhousie (Pol-
lard, Lab.), Grant (Hjorth, Lab.), Hampden
(Hughes, Lab.), Walhalla (Moncur, C.P.),
Upper Goulburn (Mackrell, C.P.) and Swan
Hill (Old, C.P.). The two Liberals, Forrest
(Caulfield) and Gray (St. Kilda), are ex-
pected to get back. They will have Labor
support, though they helped to shift Hogan
as well as voting against McPherson
Menzics was mentioned as likely to oppose
one or the other, but he preferred the safer
Nunawading, of which Greenwood made him
a present.
One great objection to IToover’s proposal
of immunity for food-ships in war-time is
that in these days of synthetic chemistry
so many foodstuffs can be used to make
power alcohol and high explosives. Fats,
sugar and grain are in this category, and
even meat will yield glycerine. The thing
would suit States which are liable to
blockade, but it might be fatal to Britain.
Australian Labor politicians who regard
the Soviet as the sole repository of virtue
might be interested in the accounts dug up
by the Chinese authorities since they forcibly
ejected Ivanski from the Chinese Eastern
Railway. According to Ivanski’s own statis-
tics he succeeded in converting an annual
profit of 7,413,329 gold roubles in 1924 into
a deficit of 2,616,028 in 1928, though the
revenue showed a 100 p.c. increase.
British Labor has delighted the Empire’s
pacifists (and its enemies also) by promis-
ing to “slow down as much as possible all
work on the Singapore naval base.” J. Bull
is committed to this protection by agree-
ment, and Maoriland and some of the colonies
have contributed large sums because they
consider it essential to their safety. The
Labor Naval Minister was asked if the
Dominions had been “consulted,” and replied
that they had been “informed.” It was
characteristic. If the cheque that a cus-
tomer gives you is bad you aren’t consulted
about its badness, but you are assuredly
informed afterwards.
The salary of Maoriland members of Par-
liament, which has stood at £450 since
1922. Avhen there was a general 10 per cent,
cut, has been raised this session to £550.
The extra £lOO is termed a “bonus” and is
alleged to be for one year only. So many
members had declared on the hustings that
they wouldn’t vote for more screw for them-
selves unless the civil servants participated
that round-about methods were necessary.
There was a conference of the three parties,
at which marvellous unanimity was dis-
played, and the Government let it be known
that if a single dissentient voice was raised
in the House the proposal would be dropped.
Nobody objected. The civil servants’ screws
stand where they did.
In the debate which led to the defeat of
Victoria’s McPherson Ministry it was alleged
that McPherson ought to find more loans
for railway and road-making works, though
loans have practically stopped for six months,
and that he ought to call the Loan Council
together, though one State Premier cannot
call the Loan Council together, and when it
does meet it hasn’t a bean in its pocket. The
Opposition now appeals to the country on
almost every point except the one on which
the row began. General elections are like
that.
A score of the retiring 65 members of
Vic. Assembly got walkovers on nomination
day. They consist of three Nats. (Beard-
more, Spesfcock and Knox), 14 Laborites
(Prendergast, Jewell, Tunnecliffe, Hayes,
Blackburn, Solly, Cotter. Holland, Lemmon,
Iveane, Cain, Cook, McKenzie and Frost),
a Cocky (Bourchier). an Independent
(Jimmy McLaclilan) and a Country Prog.
(Glowrey). The Nats, are running T. A.
Hartrey, a teacher at St. Pat’s College, Bal-
larat. against Labor-leader H’ogan in War-
renheip. Hartrey, a good platform man,
will have powerful support in an effort to
give Labor tit for tat for Bruce’s defeat by
Holloway.
It is claimed for the Development arid
Migration Commission, which the Scullidores
propose to extinguish, that if it did not
achieve much it resisted a great deal arid
prevented unwarrantable outlay. A Better
Not Commission, in short. But is it too
much to ask a politician to say No some-
times?
A severe judgment has been passed on the
administration of the Vic. Children’s
Welfare Branch by A. A. Kelley, P.M.,
who conducted an inquiry into the methods
of boarding out the wards of the State.
Kelley found it necessary to make a
heap of remedial suggestions, including
the appointment of a chief inspector. It
was the case of a Hallam woman that
brought the searchlight on the system ; she
was convicted of the manslaughter of one
of four infants boarded out to her, and the
evidence revealed sickening neglect and filth.
The C. W. Branch is a worry, but it should
be no harder to handle than the Penal, and
Akeroyd, who came fresh to the job from
the Education Department, has got excellent
results there.
TOM WILFORD, just appointed High
Commissioner for Mooriland in London.
Bruce is badly Served by some of his
friends, Nat.-Fed. officials especially. Many
Sydney people would have been glad of an
opportunity to show that they appreciate
the fine sportsmanship he has exhibited since
his defeat, but they weren’t vouchsafed one.
He was surrounded by knights instead and
whisked off to a dinner at the Australia.
The same thing always happens when he
comes to Sydney. A rampart of silk hats
separates the man from the people.
With the northern mines out of action,
the past eight months should have been a
period of plenty for the N.S.W. South Coast
miner, the 124 p.c. levy notlnvithstanding;
but hardly a day goes by without a mine
being tied up for some trumpery reason.
Before Child Endowment came the single
man used to be the most vociferous at pit-
mouth meetings; now the man with a large
family is his ready ally. Take a miner with
six children. If his weekly income does not
reach the basic wage l (£4 55.) plus 30s. (ss.
for each child), Guv’ment makes it up. Week
in and week out he wouldn’t make £5 15s.
by his own exertions, so he welcomes a
stoppage when he has earned, say, £4 65.,
knowing that the State will pay him £1 9s.
for not working. Thus the crazy Child Endow-
ment system encourages idleness as well as
imposing a thumping tax on industry.
If half the tales
about hanky-panky
tricks are true, it
ought to be easy to
get the Eden-Monaro
election upset. Per-
kins, the Nationalist
Whip, was unseated
by a mere 40 votes.
It is alleged that
hundreds of navvy
unionists who left the
electorate a year or
more ago voted as
absentees, and that the
Labor poll at Quean-
beyan exceeded the
population of that
town. Also, enrol-
ment was obligingly
granted to 300 or so
gentlemen who gave
their address as the
post office.
W.J. Cleary, N.S.W.’s
new Chief Railway
Commissioner, has had
a lifelong and exceed-
ingly successful experi-
ence in beer manufac-
J. A. Perkins.
tore. It is a question whether he will be
better than Fraser if he has to struggle
under the same disabilities, and it is a
question whether Cleary’s beer, made under
the same disabilities, would have been drink-
able. One of the worst disabilities would
have struck him if politicians had possessed
the right to build breweries and pubs for
him all over the country, without Ms consent
and even against liis advice, to build them at
a cost measured by the necessity for finding
profitable work for supporters, and to tell
him that his luck in making profits out of
them under close political supervision would
be regarded as the measure of his capacity.
The best beer might go sour on these terms.
Before the last N.S.W. Assembly elections
the Labok Daily allowed candidates for
party nominations to advertise themselves
at space rates. The innovation was appre-
ciated, and not only by the scores of en-
gaging aspirants who rushed into print with
their portraits and assurances that they were
“fearless fighters” in the 1917 strike and
other bloodless struggles. But it has led
to this pitiless announcement: —
No advertisements from candidates relating to the
forthcoming Selection Ballots will be received unless
accompanied by cash. No new accounts will be
opened.
Just like any bowelless capitalistic sheet!
The Scullidore Government, having sus-
pended compulsory military enlistment at
the demand of its more heated supporters,
is to be bailed up by the .same crowd to
make enlistment in trade unions obligatory.
The compulsory military trainee, serving
under the people’s Government, gives some-
thing—a willingness to defend his country
when defence is required, and a much greater
capacity for doing it than that of the out-
sider. The compulsory unionist, serving under
the ex-parson Garden and his friends, doesn’t
offer to do more or better work than the
untied worker, or to do as good work, or
to do any work at all. But he can always
be looked to for an increased output of
compulsory strikes. If voluntary attach-
ment to the army is a good thing then a
case may be made out for voluntary attach-
ment to a union and voluntary payment of
levies.
The South African Prime Minister having
promised to give women the vote, the Nation-
alist Congress has warned him that he
mustn’t. The Boer woman is Nationalist to
her finger-tips, and the grant of the franchise
would assure Hertzog of a majority for
ever and a day. But the veld Boer is the
most hidebound of conservatives; the idea of
raising the vrouw to equality with himself
he regards as flat blasphemy. So Hertzog
is between the Dopper and the deep sea.
The Australian Statistician mentioned
151,567 square miles of serviceable trees as
existing in 1907, and 38,281 about 1927. It
is a lamentable killing-off. The use of con-
crete and steel helps to prevent the land
becoming quite bare, but they don’t cast
pleasant shadows, or help the water supply,
or inspire poetry and art; and birds don’t
sing or ’possums gambol in them.
THE HUCKSTERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"In presenting his programme each of the party
leaders suggests the action of a shopkeeper who
displays a wide assortment of second-hand goods,
gathered from all parts of the premises, but who
carefully conceals the thing that is in demand.”
—Melbourne Sun on the Victorian elections.
“Step up and buy,” he shouted,
“I’ve fancy goods for sale,
This undertaking flouted,
That promise (rather stale),
Refurbished till they glisten
In freshly painted coat
As bright as new —and, listen,
They’re going for a vote.
“Step up and view the wonders
My windows all display,
Nor heed the envious thunders
Of rivals ’cross the way.
All wares for your enjoyment,
Inspect them for yourself!
No, sir, not unemployment—
That’s up on a dark shelf.
“Step up, you bargain-hunters,
And gaze upon my store,
Quaint fads for fiscal stunters
And party games galore,
So polished that you shan’t see
Their defects at a glance.
What’s that? No, sir, you can’t see
This season’s trick finance.
“Step up and buy,” he bellowed;
“I’ve all the stock-in-trade,
Shop-worn, maybe, and yellowed
With age and slightly frayed.
My trade traditions bind me
To hold new lines uncouth,
And so you’ll never find me
Descend to selling—truth !”
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


Poverty
Point
LIBERTY, FRATERNITY, EQUALITY!
“Jock Garden is the power behind the throne in the Labor selection ballots for candidates for the next State election; he practically decides who are to be supported
on the Lang ticket. Besides Mutch and Evatt, who are already out as far as the A.L.P. is concerned, McKell and Keegan, M's.L.A., are amongst those marked for
CITIZEN JOCK GARDEN: “To the guillotine with them! They have shown themselves enemies of liberty and friends of tyranny by their refusal to hiss my feet.”
“C. Ma”: The difficulties confronting the
virtuosi of the movies are often tremendous,
but so is the ingenuity with which they
overcome them. When an earlier version
of “The Term of H'is Natural Life” was
being shot in Bondi, a supreme touch of
horror was needed to give a prison scene
verisimilitude. It was decided that this could
be obtained by having cockroaches running
over a sleeping convict’s face. After the
indignant proprietor had been made to realise
the importance of the issues involved, a pair
of the insects was obtained from a neighbor-
ing pub. It was found that the creatures,
being unused to the camera walk, scuttled
over the somnolent one’s countenance at a
pace that was more ludicrous than terrible,
but a way of giving the scene the necessary
effect of gradual ghastliness was found.
The ’roaches were deprived of four legs
apiece.
“S.T.S.”: Why on earth should “Goldi-
locks” (B. 30/10/’2O) pitch on “Two Lovely
Black Eyes” as a “masterpiece of futility”?
To me, and I think to most others, it has
always seemed the exact opposite, a marvel
—among comic songs —of logical sequence,
a kind of sermon against the ordinary politi-
cal arguments that are futile. Take one
verse:—
The next time I argued, I thought it best
To give the Conservative side a rest;
The merits of Gladstone I freely pressed—
When O, what a surprise!
Jones, it seemed, was a Tory true;
Nothing the Liberals right could do; \
This was the end of that argument too,
Two lovely black eyes.
O, what a surprise!
Only for telling a man he was wrong,
Two lovely black eyes.
It isn’t Milton or Swinburne; but it seems
to me to tower above the average music-hall
“futility.”
“Oxmead”: Despite the smacking in the
jaw of Hannan Swaffer by an aggrieved
American actress (B. 13/11/’29) dramatic
critics are less exasperatingly rude, or public
entertainers less sensitive, than in the brave
days when I was 21 or thereabouts. I can
still . remember a letter of protest that
appeared in the London Times from some
prominent playwright of whose latest pro-
duction the celebrated Clement Scott had
spoken disparagingly. The writer kept liis
temper for a bit and sought to demonstrate
logically that Scott was entirely wrong or
didn’t know what he was writing about. But
in the end his lacerated feelings overcame
him and his anguished soul broke out in a
wild “I Hate Him!” He repeated the
assurance three times so that there should
be no doubt on the subject, and left it at
that. Quite a number of playwrights and
actors affected a low opinion of Scott, but
nobody had previously managed to compress
it into so few words.
“Kir”: It was in Melbourne that Sacco
Homan, who died in England lately,
attracted most attention. In that city he
entered into a fair dinkum fasting duel with
a young Scotchman who starved profes-
sionally as Hex Latter and claimed to have
cured himself of an affliction through a
thorough course of eatless days. Latter was
confident he could outfast the other man,
whose record was seven weeks without the
glimpse of a menu. An enterprising entre-
preneur put the pair in the same glass house,
and the Melbourne Argus, with unusual
humor, remarked that the show would con-
tinue until one man ate the other. was
nearer the mark than it imagined, for Sacco
hated to sec the little Scot cheerfully going
without his native porridge. After the first
foodless week spectators were occasionally
treated to wild outbursts in a foreign tongue.
They thought it was either part of the
show or delirium. Several times the manager
had to go down at night and threaten the
angry Austrian with the compensation
clauses of his contract before it was safe
for the Scotchman to go to sleep. Once
or twice Sacco waved the furniture about
and threatened to smash down the glass
house, and, fearful of an outburst of canni-
balism, the harassed management at the
end of 35 days rang the breakfast bell and
declared the duel off.
“Cauboy”: Leslie Faber, just dead in
London, was responsible for making “By
Candle Light” the longest run in Smoky
Town. Faber once played in “Captain
Kettle” a part that required him to shriek
loudly and continuously for about a minute.
His throat shortly collapsed under the strain
and his understudy was called upon to make
the necessary noises off stage. The under-
study’s vocal apparatus also proved unequal
to the task, so finally the management ranged
half a dozen supers in the wings, each
man being instructed to let out a short yell,
which his neighbor took up, and the scream,
having passed down the line, would return
again, giving the effect of one consecutive
howl.
“Kappa”: If Victoria really wants its
picture-quota law to benefit local film pro-
ducers all it/ has to do is to amend the Act
to provide that Australian films shall be
exhibited alternately on the programme with
imported pictures. Once local productions
had been thus “forced” on audiences, pro-
prietors would soon look around for some-
thing better than the present cheap stuff.
This was the method adopted in Germany
when a quota law was introduced there and
the result has been excellent German films.
“Cmsar’s Ghost” : Gilbert Emery, who was
Ginger Mick in the picturisation of C. J.
Dennis’s verse-story, returns to Australia in
“Behind That Curtain,” in which he makes
so much of the second part that he
eclipses the leading man, Warner Baxter,
Emery, in spite of the success he made ot
the Ginger Mick role, had a lean time in
his native land. A few years ago his friends
got a benefit going to pay his way to
America, but he was a careless Bohemian
and had the habit of collecting the money
for the tickets sold in advance, and when
eventually the affair was held there was
scarcely enough surplus to pay for a tram
ride. When he did go it-was so quietly that
his appearance in the American film sur-
prised friends, who were beginning to won-
der what had become of him.
“L. de Rideau” : I was at the first night
of a co. which launched a season of comedy
in Melbourne. I thought the house was less
than a third full. On the Monday following
I read in an advt. in a morning paper that
5000 people were unable to gain admission
to the show. That shows how unobservant
a man can be.
“H'amfat” : Irene Vanbrugh’s return to the
stage, after her temporary retirement fol-
lowing the death of Boucicault, is almost an
Australian event. The play is “Art and
Mrs. Bottle,” by Ben Levy, Australia born
and a nephew of Judge Cohen of N.S.W.
“Craiser” : A refreshing change from the
crude panto usually provided as fare for the
children at Christmas will be a performance
by the Melbourne Repertorians, under the
Clewlow direction, of Thackeray’s “The Rose
and the Ring.” The novelist produced this
little children’s classic as such things are
usually produced—by accident. He wrote
it offhand for the youngsters in a country-
house he was staying in at the Yuletide
season. It has lately been adapted for the
stage by Harris Deane and set to music by
Robert'Cox. It had a long run at Wynd-
ham’s. London, and also toured the English
provinces.
“Cine Ma” : The Auditorium was the first
theatre in Melbourne to give continuous
talkie programmes, but after an interval it
returned to the concert business. Now the
Tait house is to be leased by Union Theatres
and reconstructed at a cost of £OO,OOO speci-
ally for sound reproduction. It will be the
first theatre in Australia to have its acoustics
studied from this standpoint. The_ talkie
boom synchronised with a boom in new
picture palaces, but the plans of all had been
laid with an eye on the silent film. One of
the most expensive specimens in Melbourne
is afflicted with an echo which would be
an asset to a Swiss mountain resort.
“Toe Essbie”: Passed on at 46. from
Lakemba (Sydney), Farquar Ewan Finlay-
son. a native of Scotland and one of the
most picturesque figures in Highland affairs
in Australia. As a piper he secured all the
most coveted trophies in Australia and
Maoriland. He wori the Australasian cham-
pionship (Sir Jeffery Mackie trophy), valued
at £4OO. seven times in succession and 12
times in all, and amongst the cups which
he left on his sideboard are the Peter Daw-
son, the Grenfell Caledonian Society’s, the
I’arkes and Peak Hill Caledonian, the James
Watson, and the Waugh of the Goulburn
Society. Over 900 first prizes stand to his
credit. He also published a quantity of
excellent pipe and pipe-band music, notable
amongst which was the “Prince of Wales
Welcome to Australia.”
“L.11.P.”: The latest stage Nelson is
Leslie Banks in Thurston’s original play,
“Lady Hamilton,”-at London New Theatre.
In the cast is. Norman Macowan. who was
here with the Vanbrugh co., and Fred Lloyd,
here with Hicks. At the Edinburgh King's,
a new stage Napoleon in Louis Casson
struts the boards in another version of
“Madame Sansgene,” called “Madame Goes
Nap.” Sybil Thorndyke is a hit as the
washerwoman-duchess, and Laurie Hanray,
here some years ago, is excellent as the
crafty Fouche, Minister of the French
John Flops.
“Cine Ma”: That veteran entertainer
Bill Cosgrove, who has started a season of
comedy and old-time drama at Melbourne
Playhouse with, a S’African co., once threw
away an opportunitv of becoming a million-
aire.' When dentist Russell _ first launched
Hoyt’s, Cosgrove was one of the two men
who was offered a third share for £25.
“L. de R.”: A controversy is raging in
Melbourne as to what should be dorm with
the acoustics at the new Town Hall. It
was a common thing when the concert cham-
ber was first opened to see puzzled musical
critics hopping about from one section of
the place to another trying to discover what
was wrong. At a concert given by one visit-
ing virtuoso of impeccable repute a critic
told me in the interval that the lady was
playing flat. I invited him to change his
seat. He did and he found that she was
perfectly in tune.
“Rumjar”: As remarked in The Bulle-
tin, it isn’t easy to find a flaw in the stag-
ing of “Journey’s Bird,” but I missed one
little touch. It was customary, in the case of
an important capture, to poke a good
slug of liquor—rum or whisky—at the pris-
oner. In the heat and agitation of the
moment it would seldom be refused, and the
recipient would sometimes babble like Billy
Hughes did after his Warwick egg.
“C.T.11.”: Mayne Linton and Frank
Watch are forming a company to produce
“unusual” plays Sydney Savoy, which
was recently the .site of a succession of
ghastly dives. Linton has an option of a
five years’ lease of the house.
“Alwyn”: Apropos Hannan Swaffer’s
likening of American actress Lilian Foster’s
voice to a ventriloquist’s doll, John
Fuller, sen., once unsuccessfully fought the
Triad in the courts for saying among other
things that he had a voice like a pig’s whistle.
In a similar action in Sydney later Philip
Newbury obtained a £5OO verdict against
the same paper. Incidentally, the well-known
tenor took on a mouthful when he tackled a
critic. According to Spencer Bower —a
high authority on libel—success in such
actions is almost impossible. The critic's,
comment is technically “fair” provided he
believes in it himself. If it is “fair” in that
legal sense it is immaterial whether it is
“fair” in any other sense, or reasonable, or
competent.


TRAVEL INTERSTATE BY SEA
iCS
□
Passenger Vessels:
WESTRALIA
MANUNDA
ORUNGAL
ORMISTON
CANBERRA
KATOOMBA
DIMBOOLA
KAROOLA
IN COMFORT
AND
LUXURY.
To Interstate Travellers
When contemplating your next holiday or
business trip to one of the “Sister States”
make the voyage by SEA in one of the
luxurious liners of the new Australian Coastal
Services.
Among the many benefits of an Interstate sea
voyage are the golden opportunities for relaxa-
tion, all the efforts of the ship’s staff being
directed towards ensuring your comfort and
complete enjoyment.
Fast and frequent services between all ports
are maintained by the MAGNIFICENT
MOTOR VESSELS and STEAMERS
now engaged in the Interstate Services.
SUITES-DE-LUXE, ONE, TWO AND
THREE BERTH DECK CABINS.
Exclusive use of cabins may be arranged on
liberal terms.
SPACIOUS PROMENADE DECKS—
VERANDAH CAFES—EXCELLENT
CUISINE, ETC., MUSIC, GAMES,
DANCING.
Your holiday commences from the moment
you step on board.
For fuller particulars regarding sailings, etc.,
apply to the undermentioned companies in all
States: —
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN, LTD.
A.U.S.N. CO., LTD.
Macdonald, Hamilton & Co., Managing Agents
HUDDART PARKER, LTD.
AUSTRALIAN STEAMSHIPS PTY., LTD.
Howard Smith, Ltd., Managing Agents.
ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.
MELBOURNE STEAMSHIP CO., LTD.
ď
First-class Dining Saloon, Interstate Liner.
ill
in
mm
First-class Lounge, Interstate Liner.
m
m
State Room, Interstate Liner.
mmm •-m » m «*> >
■ m \ [ .
■
ijj'.
mm
I
11
B
mm
<5
Passenger Elevator, Interstate Liner.


For thoroughly efficient, trouble-free service, equip your machinery with
MANGROVITE WATERPROOF
Leather or Rawhide Belting.
mm
m
No other belting can surpass the remarkable service
records established by Mangrovite Belting. On every
class of drive it has proved its great efficiency and
durability. Cemented throughout with waterproof
cement, each Mangrovite Belt is
practically a solid continuous piece
of leather. For longer, more
economical and more efficient ser-
vice, fit Mangrovite Belting.
Consult our engineers without
obligation.
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director,
49 YORK STREET (WYNYARD SQUARE), SYDNEY.
CKCt
Solid Gold
LADY’S WRISTLET WATCH
in the newest and most popular shape.
JpC/fZ/ Dainty to a degree is this beautifully fashioned little
v " timepiece, with its solid gold case, distinctive dial and
special leather wristlet with gold snap. It is a splendid timekeeper,
roo, having a 15-jewel lever movement of great precision. Guaranteed
for 15 years and kept in order for 12 months free of charge (break-
ages excepted).
Nothing could be more practical or give greater pleasure as a Christmas
Gift than a Wristlet Watch, and the one illustrated is exceptionally
good value.
WRITE FOR OUR NEW
XMAS GIFT CATALOGUE.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Joe Lyons, the new Postmaster-General, i
the father of 10 little Australians; the tenth
arrived a few days before the father became
M.H.R. for Wilmot.’ He is just 50, and
has been married 14 years. Mrs. Lyons, like
himself, was a schoolteacher. The Scullins
are childless, and they think the Prime
Minister’s Lodge is too big for them. If
Lyons ever becomes Prime Minister, the
lodge will be too small.
Mosman, the red-roofed Sydney suburb,
straddles a hundred hills, and scores of its
houses perch on the sides ,of steep gullies
where it looked as though nothing but a goat
could ever find a foothold. W. H. Smith,
the builder who developed a genius for mak-
ing artistic homes in these impossible places,
died last week. Mosman recognised his
talents and good citizenship and many times
made him its mayor. He was 70 when lie put
away his plans.
GEORGE PARKES, president of the
Chamber of Commerce, who was chair-
man of the Sydney luncheon given to
ex-Prime Minister Bruce last week.
For years K. Davis, of Ormond (Vic.), has
been experimenting with radio loud-speakers.
Lately he perfected anew type of talkie
apparatus, which has been tested in a
local theatre with success. Speeches by Bruce
and Hughes were rendered with a clarity
nearly equal to that of the imported news
reel, and the installation has the advantage
of being a good deal cheaper than the Ameri-
can. Davis is blind.
G. F. Zimmer, Resident Magistrate at
Daru, who bosses the Western Division of
Papua, was a captain in the R.F.C. and is
an officer of the Legion of Honor. It was
he who brought down Max Muller, an ace
with 38 Allied machines to his credit. Zimmer
is doing valuable exploratory work some
300 miles up the Fly River, where wild
men and strange birds and insects abound.
J. H. O. Eaton is to be the new South
Aus. engineer-in-chief. He has spent all his
60 years in the State and has had a hand in
many of its engineering enterprises, ranging
from harbors to drain-
age works in the
damp south-eastern
country. F’or the past
11 years Eaton has
been the S.A. repre-
sentative on the Mur-
ray Waters Commis-
sion.
J. C. Dixon, pioneer
of settlement on the
Blackall Range (Q.),
is dead in liis 90th
year. He took up the
pick of the range
country, and hundreds
of acres of fine orch-
ards and dairies still
belong to the Dixon
estate, but the greater
part was sold at high
prices long ago. The
old man’s homestead,
with its marvellous
view of mountain and
sea, is surrounded by
a huge garden in
which all manner of
strange shrubs and
trees flourish.
Char 1e s Chilton,
rector of Canterbury
College and holder of
the first B.Sc. and
D.Sc. degrees granted
by the Maoriland Uni.,
went out very sud-
denly at 69. An acci-
dent deprived Chilton
of a leg, but despite tliis handicap
lie led a very active life. A medallist
in surgery,' botany and zoology, lie practised
for a while as specialist in eye diseases, was
prof, of biology at Canterbury, was active
in municipal affairs, and was the leading
authority on Australasian crustacea. He had
a cheery, alert manner, and made friends
everywhere lie went.
Col. C. E. Hughes, of Deloraine (Tas.),
is about to leave Cairo to spend Christmas
with his own people for the first time since
1913. Missing the Landing by a fortnight,
Hughes was twice wounded • on Gallipoli,
and was with the 4th Engineers in Palestine.
After the Armistice he was Deputy-Director
of Gallipoli War Graves; then he was given
charge of the Empire soldier cemeteries from
Basra, to Kars. H'is work lias brought
him in touch with some of the strangest
people on the face of the earth, and he can
make his wants known in many languages.
One of the pioneers of Ivimbriki, on the
Manning River (N.S.W.), was John Allan,
who settled there in 1851. He became the
first postmaster of the little town in 1878,
and ever since then the post-office job lias
remained in the family—a married daughter
of the pioneer holds it now. Another old-
timer was “Dr.” William Allan. He wasn't
a certificated M.D., but had a good know-
ledge of medicine, and no qualified man being
available he was sought out by everybody
rcouiring medical aid. The descendants of
the first postmaster and the “doctor” are now
spread all over the district.
Pastoralist Norman Falkiner, M.L.C.,
who died while on a visit to England some
months ago. bequeathed Victorian estate
worth £220,000 to his widow and children.
He also left considerable property in N.S.W.
and Queensland. The Vic. Treasurer will
get £22,000 in death duties and the Common-
wealth Treasurer a little more. They expect
about the same from the estate of Albert
Edward Phillips, managing director of M.
Moss and Cos., whose N.S.W. possessions
were valued at £249.000.
Rev. John Gladwoll Wheen, who until a
few months ago was President-General of
Australasian Methodists, has gone to his
reward. He was a Sheffield man. Like him.
his younger brother, Harold, and his brother-
in-law, Joseph Woodhouse, became noted
Methodist ministers in N. S. Wales; they
predeceased him. The head of the family,
who was esteemed a great financial adminis-
trator as well as a leading exponent of
Methodist doctrine, spent the evening of his
days in the Sydney suburb of Ashfield.
John Cowling, of Maubiag, has gone west
A pearler at Broome (W.A.), he conducted a
fleet of 15 luggers (lie was commodore on
the barquentine Southern Cross) on a 2000-
mile search for shell, which ended when rich
beds were located in Torres Strait. Mis-
fortune came to him in after years, and lie
was going through his hardest time when his
diving boys found sunken treasure —copper
ingots, Spanish, in all probability—off a
Maubiag reef. This, after a struggle with
the Customs, he sold for some thousands of
pounds. Then Cowling sailed to New Guinea
STEELE RUDD, who, as president of
the Society of Australian Com-
posers and Authors, is leading a
campaign to get Australians to buy
Australian books for Christmas
gifts.
and took up Mibu Island, in the mouth of the
Fly River, turning the desolation into a
thriving cocoanut plantation.
Colonel W. T. Reay, who died in London
the other day, deserves to be remembered
by Vic. toilers for the work he did as chair-
man of the Anti-Sweating Board. Reay was
editor of Hamilton Spectator, and after a
taste of Melbourne journalism on the long-
extinct Telegraph became editor of the
Herald under S. V. Winter. He moved on to
the general-manager's
chair on Winter’s
death, and quitted it
to become overseas
representative of the
paper. For the greater
•part of the last 17
years he had lived in
London.
Timothy Paul Mol-
loy, farewelled by his
colleagues o f T a
Lands Department
with oratory and gifts,
was 52 years in one
branch of the Public
Service —sale of .Crown
lands. Scarcely the
sort of job to encour-
age levity or longevity ;
nevertheless, Tim w*as
regarded as the most
jocular fellow in the
service, and his repu-
tation as a raconteur
remains bright and
shining at 71.
For three yea r s
(18911-1902) the late
W. T. Reay, was
member for East
Bourke Boroughs, in
Vic. Assembly. He
commanded the Vic.
contingent that went
to England for the
old Queen’s Diamond
Jubilee, and narrowly
missed the Vic. chief
commissionership of police. Too old to
serve in the Great War, lie was named In-
spector-General of the London specials. His
daughter Nan (he had no sons) won the
R.ILC. as a nurse.
Alec Peacock faced his 22nd Vic. election
on Nov. 12, when Allandale gave him a
walkover. He has been returned 17 times
at general elections and live times at by-
polls, and lie is in his 41st year as an
Assemblyman. When he was elected first in
March, 1889, he was a stripling of 27.
Numismatist Thorpe, of the' Sydney
Museum, spends a good part of his time in
identifying mouldy coins for people who
think they’ve lighted on treasure-trove in
tin; back yard. Eight hundred-odd was his
tally before a boy scout found a cache of
gold coins at Mosman ; now the pace is too
warm altogether. The Museum itself has
about 10,000 specimens in nearly a dozen
metals, nearly all handed in by private
citizens.
All the skippers in port called on Captain
Welch when he celebrated his hundredth
birthday at Port Chalmers (M.L.) recently.
Born at Great Yarmouth, Welch was appren-
ticed to the sea at 14. He got his master’s
ticket before lie was 30, and became an owner
in 1860, when he bought the three-masted
schooner Elizabeth Pelther cheap in New
York. Two years later his ship was in
Sydney, where she was chartered to take 488
diggers to the Gabriel’s Gully goldfield in
Otago. He sailed many seas after that,
but lie had fallen in love with Port Chalmers,
and made his home there more than half ;
century ago.
Bertie Johnston, one of Westralia’s new
Senators, is a son of a former State Sur-
veyor-General, and was himself a civil ser-
vant before he arrived in politics in 1911.
He started as a Labor Assemblyman,
presently helped Liberals to oust the Scaddan
Administration, and, after contumeliously re-
ferring to the Country party as “the Bul-
garians of politics” (an allusion readily in-
telligible in the early war years), settled
down to be a true-blue Cocky member. In
all these gyrations he took his constituency
(Williams-Narrogin) with him. Johnson
became Speaker in one of the transitional
periods of Westralian politics. His former
Labor colleagues, however, couldn’t stand
this and cheerfully undertook to make his
position intolerable inside of a week. They
actually managed it in two turbulent nights.
Lord Carrington, dead in England, aged
78, was better known to Sydneyites as Rupert
Oarington. He arrived here in 1885 as
A.D.C. to liis festive brother “Champagne
Charlie” (King Edward’s friend, who turned
his barony into a marquisate), and married
the only daughter of J. S. Horsfall, of Wid-
giewa, six years later. After her death in
1908 he lived mostly at the Union Club.
Carington had been a Guards subaltern in
England, and he commanded an A.L.11.
brigade in the last S’African War. His Aus-
tralian-born son, Rupert, inherits practically
the whole of the vast Lincolnshire wealth
(the heir to the marquisate was killed in the
World War), but he misses the title. In this
respect the family is back where it was when
Robert Smith, of Nottingham, founded it at
the end of the eighteenth century.
Norman Bayles, who used to be M.L.A.
for Toorak, is back again in Melb. from
London. Whether Victoria or England is
his domicile would probably be hard to
determine, as in recent years he has made
a habit of crossing the sea each way annu-
ally. He intends beginning his next voyage
in March. Bayles’s retirement from the
Assembly made way for Argyle in 1920.
Since then Argyle has been in no less than
five Governments, and will complete a year
in the present Cabinet on Friday (Nov. 22).
It was 50 years on Nov. 5 since Sydney’s
Father Piquet arrived at St. Pat.’s. For
the half-century he has remained in the one
parish—an achievement unique in the his-
tory of the Church in Australia. Born in
Lyons, France, in 1853, he entered the Marist
order, and was ordained a few months before
coming to Sydney. The Father Piquet
Jubilee School is Church Hill’s memorial
to the old padre, who is seriously ill in
Lewisham Hospital.
One of the most likeable Maorilaud
politicians is Downie Stewart, ex-Minister
of Finance. War service has permanently
impaired his health, and he has been accorded
the privilege, of sitting while addressing the
Chair. Recently he has been at loggerheads
with Ward, who asserted that the ex-Min-
ister had made a pledge restricting the
Dominion's operations in the London loan
market. The matter was cleared up by
Ward’s withdrawal of the charge—he had
misread some of the correspondence on the
Treasury files. The apology was made on
behalf of his chief by Lands Minister
Forbes; Ward, whose health is causing his
friends anxiety, is being made to take things
as easily as possible. After the explanation
there was a procession of members of all
parties to Stewart's desk to tender con-
gratulations.
Queensland Treasurer Barnes is known
as “The Bishop.” It was probably with
thoughts of things spiritual that “The
Bishop,” when discussing the Workmen’s
Compensation Act Amendment Bill, told the
House that a deputation from the Under-
writers’ Association had waited upon him in
the “vestry.” Hansard, with an eye upon
the true functions of Church and State,
altered the word to “lobby.”
The Rapseys of Tallangatta (Vic.) enter-
tained 650 guests at their diamond wedding-
celebrations. At the dinner Bill Rapsey, who
is 90, gave the company his recipe for long
life —plain tucker, an occasional beer and
only the best tobacco —and afterwards he
danced for hours. Long ago, when he had
unyoked his bullocks for the night, Rapsey
gave Morgan the bushranger a feed, although
he didn’t know the hungry stranger was
Morgan.
PAUL JONES,
M.H.R. for Indi
(Vic.).
The Federal
elections have
brought two old
mates together.
When Walter
Nairn, the new
Nat. M.11.R. for
Perth, met Paul
Jones, Labor
M.H.R. for Indi,
in the Federal
members’ room at
Temple Court, Mel-
bourne, each recog-
nised the other as
a school pal of 30
years ago. They
were pupils at the
Christian Brothers’
College, South Mel-
bourne. Inciden-
tally, Jones hails
from Gaffney’s
Creek, a little min-
ing-town near
Wood’s Point. It
boasts 66 electors,
and 64 of them
voted for their
noblest son on
Oct. 12.
Father Phelan, parish priest of Cairns
(N.Q.), is not above swinging a pick or
driving a lorry in the cause of religion.
When St. Monica’s Church was scattered
across the map by the cyclone, the padre
headed the repair gang. Later he decided that
the new house should have a concrete and
iron fence, and turned to again in grey flan-
nel and dungarees. Those of the flock who
could not join the working party contributed
bags of cement. Archbishop Duhig, when
laying the foundation-stone of a Marist
Brothers’ college in Cairns the other day,
paid a special tribute to the labors of this
muscular Christian.
THE LOST LEADER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Bruce was entertained by his political friends
in Sydney last week. There was not a single woi d
of blame or of reproach in his speech.”
Easy it is to take with smiling grace
The victor’s bays, the plaudits loud that
greet
Him who has triumphed in the hard-fought
race.
Harder as unperturbedly to face,
And gallantly, defeat.
Good winners all may be—good losers, few.
When comes, as come it must, the day
of stress,
How many pass from highest place, like you,
With never word of railing or of rue,
Or tinge of bitterness !
Let others stoop to petulance and blame,
Recrimination sour or vain lament.
In victory and reverse you played the game.
You set a higher standard when you came
And kept it when you went.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Jobber” : I, too, recall a truce for the burial
of the dead on the Peninsula (B. 30/30/’29).
It was on May 23, 1915, after a Turkish
General had come across under the white
flag for a pow-wow with our heads, that an
order went forth that hostilities would cease
STILL, THE INSTALMENTS WON.
SHOP ASSISTANT: “And how is baby?”
CUSTOMER (paying last instalment off perambulator ): “Oh fine! He’s getting married
next week.”
from 9 ack emma the next morning until 4
pip emma in the afternoon. The stillness
a few minutes after nine was most impres-
sive. Volunteers were called for burial par-
ties, and I hopped my frame out with the
rest. A sergeant came to me a few minutes
later and told me to stay in our lines, as
it was not desired that the Turks should
get the impression that we had boys in our
Army. I was 31 years old, and chaps many
years younger, but looking older, were sent
out to the unpleasant job. I spent the day
in making wooden crosses out of old cases
and rusty nails, and writing on them in
indelible pencil, “Here lies a brave Aus-
tralian soldier —name unknown.” The last
words were often pathetically necessary, for
someone had conceived the idea, at the Land-
ing, of throwing away our identification
discs. All that day one of our chaps
stood, with a Jacko, alongside a flag in No
Man’s Land. Soon after four we were
boxing on again.
* ik :k
“Oxmead”: France is in the
van of most scientific and huma-
nitarian movements, but appa-
rently she hasn’t much time
for the so-called New Penology
which has effected such a
transformation in British and
Australian gaols. Only the
other day over 600 more or less
desperate criminals were con-
signed to the dreaded Devil’s
Island. They travel in cages,
like wild beasts, only being
let out for half an hour a day
for exercise, and they are
guarded day and night by
warders armed not only with
rifles but with pipes charged
with super-heated steam, to
meet the risk of concerted
mutiny. France, in effect,
still treats transported con-
victs much as Britain did 100
years ago. Is it because she is
content to make her criminals
smart for their misdeeds rather
than try to reform them that
they remain the most des-
perate in the world? Or is it
because they are and always
have been so desperate—the
Parisian apache, notably—
that she daren’t try our coddl-
ing methods? It would be a
good subject for some of these
university debaters to tackle.
“Tid Apa”: The abbreviation “Xmas”
(“R.H.,” B. 6/11/’29) will continue to be
used in international cablegrams, despite
pedantic objections, simply because it saves
thousands of telegraphic words every year.
Ninety per cent, of greeting-senders use the
stereotyped message of “Merry Xmas and a
Happy New Year, Love,” which leaves Aus-
tralia as the cryptic “MXAAHNL,” repre-
senting the initial letters of the message.
Of course, at the receiving end it is typed
out in full. But for this method the cables
could hardly carry the enormous number
of Xmas greetings exchanged between Aus-
tralia and other countries.
SjS sjs ifc
“Shep”: On top of the suspension of com-
pulsory military training comes a rumor of
the projected abolition of saluting off parade.
I suspect it would be as welcome to most
officers as to the other ranks. Had the
privilege been officially accorded to the
A.I.F. it would have been hailed with cheers ;
not that Headquarters’ eternal instructions
on the matter were ever carried out, but
there was a perpetual grievance in the
attempt to enforce adherence to this relic
of centuries-old King’s regulations. Where
things counted in France saluting was for-
gotten, yet I remember an hour after land-
ing in London, straight from the Somme,
being abused by a red-tabbed staff junior,
in front of his lady friends and a Tube
crowd, for overlooking his pips. Even our
own M.P.’s on the London front did their
utmost by threats of clink to enforce salut-
ing. Birdwood never personally complained
of the lack of saluting. Often with him it
was an argument as to who saluted first, he
or the Diggers he passed.
. :]: * *
“Lao-dah” : Touching these linguistic com-
plexities. Recently the Melbourne police
found on a cable tram a 10-year-old lad
who appeared to be lost. The unintelligible
noises he made reminded one of the con-
stables of Magyar, and the Hungarian inter-
preter was sent for. He could make nothing
of the subject, but ventured an opinion that
the sounds were German, so the German
interpreter was requisitioned. This linguist
pronounced that the boy was an Italian,
and an Italian interpreter was located. He
was no more successful than his predecessors,
but in the meantime some Norwegian coins
were discovered in the youngster's pocket.
The John Hops were just on the point of
sending to the nearest Scandinavian club for
AND THEN YOU SHOULD HAVE HEARD HIM!
MRS. HOSE: “My husband is a man who calls a spade a spade.”
MRS. RPSE: “So was mine until I bothered him into making a garden.”
further assistance when an official of the
Vic. Institute for the Deaf and Dumb rang
up to say that a boy had wandered away
from the institution. The police promptly
restored the stray, with their faith in inter-
preters considerably shaken.
* * * *
“Fitter”: After 25 years’ experience
among fitters and turners who make a prac-
ticed taking bits of metal out of each other’s
eyes (B. 30/10/’29), I permit nobody to
have a go at mine unless he uses a knife
or a razor. “S.V.D.” says that his man
brushes the knife across the eye. He isn’t
an expert practitioner if he moves the knife.
The proper way is to rest the patient’s head
firmly against the wall, pivot your hand on
his face or nose, and gently but firmly touch
the eye on the top side of the piece of
metal. The eyeball instantly turns up, and
the keen edge of the knife flicks the metal
out. In an emergency I have operated on
my own eye with a razor, a mirror and a
candle. Sometimes the intrusive object will
not make itself felt until you go to bed,
when closing the lid renders sleep impossible.
“Steely”: For removing tiny pieces of
steel from the -eye neither razor, knife nor
tongue can compare with a magnet. I know
a big engineering shop where a powerful
magnet is kept for this single purpose
Its superiority, of course, is that it does its
work without brushing or touching the eye.
* * * *
“ ’lggins”: There are two engaged mem-
bers of a Brisbane business man’s office staff
who came together in a curious way. He is
a verv shy and reserved man, and lacking
the nerve to propose to any of the girls of
his acquaintance, advertised his desire to
“meet young lady, view mat.” in a daily
paper. From a sheaf of replies he selected
the one which seemed most promising and
appointed a meeting-place. The girl turned
up, and, to his amazement, he found that
she was a quiet, reserved typist in the next
office to his, whose aloofness had always dis-
couraged the faintest approach to intimacy.
Jill was quite as surprised as Jack, but it
didn’t take them long to discover that they
were made for 'One another.
* * * *
“Hayband”: A 12-years-old Parramatta
girl deserves honorable mention for some
rapid thinking and equally swift action.
Her dad’s lunch had been cut from a tin
of sheep’s tongues; later, the mother gave
the balance to the girl for lunch. She took
nothing but a cup of tea herself and soon
afterwards went shopping. Presently the
girl felt ill; she managed to get to a doctor,
and told him what she’d eaten. “My daddy
took some for his lunch, too,” she added.
“He’s building a house near Pendle Hill
railway-station. Telephone him not to eat
it.” While the doctor attended to his small
patient a nurse ’phoned a friend at Pendle
Hill, and asked him to motor across and
instruct the builder near the station not to
touch his lunch. The message arrived in
time. Incidentally, the girl made a good
recovery.
❖ ❖ * *
“N.M.”: Surely the world’s lightweight
arrived at the Royal (Sydney) Hospital for
Women —brawn and bone, it weighed lslb.
The Royal has quite a name for helping-
citizens to overcome the drawback of prema-
ture birth. Wrapping the baby in flannel
and covering the head with cotton wool, a
light rub down with warm oil and keeping
the cot at a steady 95 degrees is part of the
treatment. But the ever-helpful hospital
will supply details to any inquirers.
* * * *
“Aquae Salis” : But have all the most virile
races been those that set the least store
on washing (R.P. 13/11/’29) ? Long before
Rome began to decline the bathing habit
was firmly established, and if it was carried
to excess in later centuries, so was every-
thing else in the way of comfort or luxury.
And what of Japan? Fifty years ago one of
the first things that impressed itself on Eng-
lish travellers and other outsiders was the
cleanliness of the people and the passion of
even the poorest for warm baths, a pheno-
menon seldom noted in Europe even at that
period. Since then the Japanese, the bust:
washed of Asiatics, have come to dominate
Asia and to take rank among the Great
Powers of the world. They began their upward
progress, it might almost be said, by defeat-
ing in war the then mighty Russian Empire,
which was never much addicted to soap.
* * * *
“J. Nib”: Philip Snowden has a reputa-
tion for speaking his mind, and lived up
to it during his Maoriland tour. In one
town he visited he was the guest of some
very naice people interested in one of the
isms —not socialism —that Philip was lec-
turing about. After one of his addresses a
local trade-union secretary introduced him-
self, and with several others, including Snow-
den’s hosts, strolled homewards with him.
Arrived at the gate, all were asked in except
the Laborite. Snowden’s brow grew black.
“I’m sorry my friend isn’t good enough for
you,” he said to his host, “but either he
comes inside with the rest or I come inside
only long enough to get my bags.” He
didn’t have to get his bags.
jJ* -I* 'J*
“Herodot” : A prisoner was recently dis-
charged from Long Bay (Sydney) with 4s.
(id.; the same night he entered a Surry Hills
two-up school with the three shillings that
remained of it. Luck was with him from
the start, and he came away with nearly
£6O. At the ponies next day he backed three
winners, each at a good price, and went home
with £350. Another visit to the two-up
joint followed that night, and when he
emerged all that stood between him and
starvation was Is. 6d. And all within 36
hours!
“Pawang”: Touching emergency opera-
tions with makeshift instruments (B.
6/11/’29), Dr. Argyle, Vic. Minister for
Health, was recently on a visit to his orange-
grove at Lake Kangaroo when his motor-car
was hailed by a friend. The friend told him
that a car had just gone ahead taking a
man suffering from a brown snake’s fangs
to the nearest doctor and that no ligature
had been applied. A long chase ensued and
finally Argyle rounded up liis quarry outside
a country store. He peremptorily ordered
the man out of the car, incised the wound
with the best available instrument in the
shop—a knife used for cutting string—■
applied a ligature and a few days later re-
ceived the smiling thanks of the victim.
-I- -i- -J-
-“The Listening Insect” : The mixing panel
at 3LO, Melbourne, is a remarkable affair.
Over 20 lines radiate from it to the outside
world, and it is possible to utilise the whole
number simultaneously to produce a -blend-
ing of effects. Thus, when an elocutionist is
delivering “The Wreck of the Hesperus,'’
the background of roaring breakers can be
supplied by a line which runs to Torquay
on the coast. Another set enables Edward
Goll to sit down at the studio piano and
play a sonata to the accompaniment of a
Sydney orchestra, the headphones being worn
over the pianist’s ears. Recently a duet was
sung by a man in Sydney and a woman in
Melbourne. A triumph of engineering skill,
though it may not have anything very
obvious to do with art.
:j: :’t iji
“Piriti” : Some of the most appreciated
items are those that go over the ether acciden-
tally. Some wireless addicts in Ashburton
(M.L.) were listening in to a dance music
programme from a Sydney cafe the other
evening, when something that wasn’t in the
programme came drifting along. Apparently
a flapper had chosen a spot close to the
microphone to give her escort a piece of her
mind in the matter of his dallying with
another lady in the party, and from all
accounts she did the job in a way that com-
pelled the admiration of thousands of hearers
in all parts of Australia and Maoriland.
Reception is reported to have been excellent.
DRAWING THE DINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Backless bathing costumes for women have been
officially banned by the municipal councils control-
ling the principal Sydney beaches.’’
Summer! And the surf-queen peaches one
and all bedeck the beaches,
Sort of embarras de richesse, you might
reckon, for the sheiks.
You can almost sense the smoodgy feeling
in the air at Coogee—
Men in flannels, maids in fuji, chiselled
limbs and dimpling cheeks.
But the lynx-eyed beach inspector up and
down the sandy sectoi;
Stalks like some unquiet spectre, zeal-
ously intent to track
Down the damsels who exhibit —what
authorities prohibit—
The indelicate ad libitum of shoulders and
of back.
Forms as sinuous as willows revel in the
Bondi billows;
Heads, with others’ arms for pillows, rest
upon the shore serene.
Scant resemblance in their bathers to the
shape-distorting swathers
That enwrapped their mums and “feythers"
when Victoria was Queen.
Lirnhs, the upper and the nether, barely
shave the altogether,
No one cares a fig or feather what habili-
ments they lack.
But, to smother apprehension that we’ve
done with all convention,
Bumbledom demands retention of some
dov’ring on the back.
Summer! And through Manly breakers dive
the joie-de-vivre takers
Or recline, for miles and acres, on the
golden sands we know.
O’er your scanty raiment clerics would have
gone into hysterics,
You Elizabeths and Erics, half a century
ago.
But be mindful, Mauds and Mamies, likewise
Annabels and Amys,
That a portion of your frame is still
verboten to the pack.
Off the beach, however stunning the effect,
you’ll soon be running
If inspectors catch you sunning in a cos-
tume sans a back. ,
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Dd.”: Among a wilderness of dry and
uninteresting correspondence that I handled
when a Vic. railways clerk, the fol-
lowing stands out like an oasis. It
came from an enginedriver on one of
the branch lines with a tri-weekly service,
and read: “I have to report when running
No. 1 down mixed train to-day striking and
killing a cow at 71-mile-post. Cow was
owned by Ganger Jones. This is one of
the many narrow escapes this cow has had.
No damage to engine, only cylinder-head
cracked and cowcatcher bent; no time lost,
only 20 minutes.”
* * * *
“Lyn”: When the news reached a Vic.
provincial town that the local ’bus driver
had won £5OOO in Tatt.’s there was con-
siderable speculation as to how he would
celebrate the event. The opinion most
favored was that he would buy a tourer and
start immediately for Melbourne. But he
didn’t; he went on driving his ’bus as usual.
Yet his method of celebration, it was uni-
versally agreed, wasn’t a bad one; he gave
free rides all that day!
* * # *
“Brassard”: There were British officers
who never forgot Army traditions, even in
the bath-house. George ll—, of the Fifth
Ambulance, an unconventional soul, was tem-
porarily in charge of the divisional baths at
Corbie. One day a detachment from one of
the Guards regiments arrived for a bath in
charge of an officer and a sergeant-major.
The men were halted outside while the s.-m.
THE IRRESISTIBLE FORCE AND THE IMMOVABLE OBJECT.
THOUGHTFUL THEO : “I wonder what WOULD happen if an Irresistible Force met an
Immovable Object?”
PRACTICAL PRUR : “Oh, I suppose she’d go through his pockets first and then his bank
account.”
entered to investigate, returning with George.
There was room for only so many at a time,
so George counted off the required number,
and said, “Follow me, you lot.” The men
started to move a little hesitatingly, when
the officer, whose finer feelings had appa-
rentiy been outraged, shouted, “Halt those
men, Sergeant-Major; number them off pro-
perly and march them in. We do things
regimentally in the Guards,” he added
severely for the grinning George’s benefit.
* * * *
“G.M.S.”: When the late Van Raalte was
in Perth he was invited by the local camera
society to initiate its members into the
mysteries of artistic composition. Van
Raalte gave a series of witty lectures, illus-
trated with examples of the U-form, diagonal,
triangle and other orthodox ways of building
up a picture; and the lessons sank deep into
the soul of at least one of his listeners. At
the annual exhibition he showed a photo of
a scene which was familiar to many of the
members and yet seemed strangely different.
Inquiry elicited the fact that, worried as
to how to deflect Nature into one of the
forms advocated by Van Raalte, he had taken
an axe and demolished every tree that did not
fit into the recipe.
:{: *
“Nakhoda”: In more ways than one the
Shrine of Remembrance being erected in the
Melbourne Domain will be a memorial to
Australian dead. In the course of its excava-
tions the huge steam-shovel recently scooped
up a fistful of human bones. Examination
revealed that they were aboriginal remains,
and the indications are that the site is one
of Binghi’s old burial-grounds.
* * * *
“The Listening-Insect”: A recent judg-
ment in Melbourne should cause profound
alarm amongst radio fanatics. A man was
charged with using a set without a license
and it appeared that he had a portable
crystal outfit, which he carried- about in his
pocket. According to the Act the license
only grants a permit to use the apparatus
at the address appearing in the document.
As the matter stands anybody who takes a
set for a ride in his motor-car will have
to take out a fresh license at each stopping-
place or risk prosecution. Non-listeners
will be inclined to feel that lie deserves it.
* * * *
“Mctercn” : If sunstrokes were the curse
of Messpot it was the other extremities that
suffered most on the Somme, where the
trench-feet casualties were numbered by
hundreds. One inventive genius prescribed
whale-oil, but many found the remedy worse
than the disease, for feet stayed _ frozen
cold for hours after being rubbed with the
liniment. Neglect often meant severe com-
plications to the sufferers. At Flers men
were nightly evacuated in droves. Swelling
of the feet after aid-post treatment made it
impossible for the patients to don footgear
again to hobble out of the line; thus swathed
in wool and bandages they were either
stretcher cases, or more often carted out
pick-a-back by the stretcher-bearers.
* * :!= /*
“Wellow”: Sydney’s latest man-woman
eventuated and faded out without occasion-
ing any complications worth speaking of.
She has done hard manual work for 15
years, and she might have gone on masquer-
ading as what she wasn’t, with no discern-
ible harm to herself or anyone else, if she
hadn’t been obliged to sue a cocky-employer
for nine weeks’ wages. At the first hearing
some doubts having been cast on her sex as
affecting her legal claim, the magistrate
adjourned the case to permit of a medical
examination. A doctor subsequently certified
that the plaintiff was a woman, but that her
muscular development was such that she was
quite capable of doing a man’s work. Also
there was testimony to show that she could
swing a pick or an axe and do anything
expected of a farmhand witli the best. So
William Smith got a verdict for the full
amount claimed, and it doesn’t look as if
she need fear any penalties for remaining
William unless she does something which the
Law doesn’t permit a woman to do, whether
she wears skirts or pants.
“Murkah” : During recent British-Austra-
lian radiophone tests it was possible to put
a stop-watch on electricity. To save con-
tinual talking during a trial, a gramophone
record was played. The tests were very
successful, and the London engineer remarked
that he would let us hear our own signals
by putting them on the beam again and
sending them back across America and the
Pacific (we were transmitting the other
way round). Galli-Curci was in a sustained
trill—really a succession of musical “dots.”
Throughout the trill, before the next dot
became audible from the machine playing
alongside, the preceding one returned round
the world. Examination showed the dots on
the record to be five inches apart, and the
record moved about four inches while each
pinpoint of melody was making its long
round trip in one-seventh of a second. Not
much time to “lose” on a 25,000 mile trip;
but it’s the first time I’ve been able to
actually hear that the magnetic waves of
radio aren’t instantaneous.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Recently the Vic. police began
to take a discreet
interest in a gen-
tleman who owned
a box at the G.P.O.
and whose daily
mail as Cup Day
approached reached
the proportions of
firms like Dal-
gety’s. One morn-
ing a plain-clothes
man intercepted the
seedy one after he
had stuffed a large
sack full of corres-
pondence. Exami-
nation of the con-
tents revealed notes,
gold and money-
orders from all
over the continent.
The lottery the sus-
pected one was con-
nected with turned
out to be an old
favorite, locally
known as the
Footscray Sweep.
The total contribu-
tions exceed £6OOO,
and the first prize
is in the neighbor-
hood of £3OOO. The
man with the heavy
mailbag was
charged with con-
ducting an illegal
business and fined
£lOO, in default
six months. People
who indulge in a
flutter on this and
similar “consulta-
tions” might take
warning from the
statement of the
detective - sergeant
in charge 'of the
case that the 25
tickets he bought
as evidence were
not worth the
paper they were printed on.
* * * *
“R.H.”: At a Rotary lunch in Mel-
bourne the other day a Bourke-street
bookseller enthusiastically referred to the
guest of honor, a Sydney visitor, as
a “fine art expert and maker of
antique furniture,” and seemed quite puzzled
at the laughter which ensued. Reminds me
of a visit I once paid to a Melbourne furni-
ture warehouse, where a salesman assured
me: “This sideboard, sir, isn’t like some of
the so-called antique furniture you find in
other shops about here. It’s genuine
Jacobean from our own factory.”
Jjs * * *
“Uramao” : A pert young typist enlivened
the usual dulness of a magistrate’s court in
Windy Wellington (M.L.) the other day.
She had been summoned for failure to pay
tram fare, and, failing to appear, had been
fined ten .shillings.’ An hour later she
arrived and, finding that her case had been
disposed of, suggested that the magistrate
should re-open it. Her
request being refused,
she launched into a
graphic description of
the tram inspector who
started the trouble,
and demanded that
her name be sup-
pressed. On being told
to apply to the re-
porters on the latter
point, she looked the
scribes over superci-
liously, and declined to
ask any favor of “those
nasty people.” Finally
telling the magistrate
that she had wasted “a
whole bally afternoon”
on him she withdrew.
* *
“Caveman”: The
next town to be de-
clared a city in M.L.
will probably be Pal-
merston North, which
is approaching the
20,000-population mark
at a faster rate than
the other competitors,
Invercargill and Bluff.
The seven existing
cities are Wellington,
Auckland, Christ-
church, Dunedin.
Napier, Wanganui and
Nelson. The last has
barely a third of the
qualifying number of
inhabitants, but it
attained the distinc-
tion some 40 years
ago for ecclesiastical
reasons. The new Anglican cathedral now
rising in Nelson will be the most imposing
in the Dominion.
* * * *
“Medicurse” : Medicinal qualities are cre-
dited to various Australian plants, sometimes
on no discoverable evidence. The prickly-pear
treatment of diabetes is one of the most
persistently tried by hopeful sufferers, the
method being to simmer a leaf of pear for
a few hours and then strain, the resultant
liquid being taken in varying doses according
to the taste and fancy of the patient. Last
year this treatment was tried in one of our
big hospitals under medical supervision,
blood-sugar tests being taken at regular in-
tervals. Despite the patient’s assurance that
several of her friends had been cured by the
pear, I uegret to say that the treatment made
absolutely no difference in either her blood
or her general condition. Does anyone know
where the idea started that the prickly-pear
Could be usefully employed in such cases?
“Chev” : One Friday evening a well-dressed
Hindu entered one of the leading motor
showrooms in Melbourne and saluted an
attendant with “Salaam, Sahib!” This he
followed up with a volley of Hindustani,
requests to speak English being greeted
wfith a sad shake of the turban and a fresh
discharge of the alien tongue. Sub-managers
and managers were summoned, but nobody
could discover exactly what the fellow
THE RAVAGES OF TIME.
DILL: “I enjoy these re-unions above everything. Time does
separate friends so!”
JILL: “Yes, darling. Sixteen years ago we were both nineteen.
Now I’m thirty-two and you’re twenty-three.”
wanted although it was obvious that he was
after some sort of car. Finally, when the
management had almost given up hope of
effecting a sale, a new salesman who had
been keeping in the background strolled up
and nonchalantly addressed the colored gen-
tleman in his native tongue. It appeared
he had lived in India, and when the Hindu
departed, having left a deposit on a Rolls-
Royce sedan, the salesman’s prestige went
up 100 p.c. with his firm. What his em-
ployers did not know was that the enter-
prising young man had met the worshipper
of Shiva, who was blessed with a keen sense
of humor, several days before and that the
customer’s apparent ignorance of English
was a pre-arranged affair.
* * * *
“Pawang” : Something new in rewards for
pests is being offered in Melbourne. Miss
Raff, of the Uni. School of Agriculture, is
prepared to give a halfpenny a head for
silverfish, delivered alive and in good con-
dition. It might have been expected that
the response would be embarrassingly large,
but up ta date the lady has had to pay
out only half a crown towards the two
thousand specimens she requires. One reason
may be that the creature is difficult to catch.
Miss Raff advises leading them into a cup
with a camel’s-hair brush or a piece of tissue
paper. She needs the insects for research
designed to permanently eliminate the pest
whose chief article of diet appears to be new
dress-suits.
“Wakatu”: When is a volcano extinct?
Residents of Taranaki (M.L.) are beginning
to* have their doubts about Egmont, the vol-
canic cone whose snow-capped summit is a
feature of the landscape. A Maori oven has
been discovered on the slopes of the moun-
tain at about 20 inches below the surface.
Immediately above the oven was mud and
then about 17 inches of lava, conclusive
evidence that Egmont has been in eruption
since the advent of the Maori, five or six
hundred years ago. And the last eruption
must have occurred in a comparatively
modern era, for a few years ago lava was
discovered in the forks of matai and rimu
trees, proof that tKfese' trees' must have been
of considerable size before the volcano ceased
active operations.
* * * *
“Cartot”: Occasionally a quaintly-named
hotel is noted, but the hackneyed titles are
everywhere. An inspection of the hotel list
for N.S.W. shows 209 Royals, 180 Com-
mercials, 68 Railways, 42 Tattersall’s, 41
Imperial and 31 Federate. After that straggle
Albions, Australians, Centrals, Courts and
Court Houses, Criterions, Exchanges and
Freemasons.
* * * *
“O. I. Saye” : Easy marriage customs (B.
6/11/’29) ? When Sir Edward Creasy
(author of “Decisive Battles of the World”)
was Chief Justice of Ceylon he referred to
marriages among the Kandyans as “contracted
with a wink and dissolved by a kick.”
* :!= * *
“Ibn el Issar”: Not only East and West
but ancient religion and modern science will
jostle one another in January, when fol-
lowers of Brahm, of every caste and sect,
will converge from the four corners of Hin-
dustan on Allahabad, there to bathe in the
sanctified junction of the Jumna and the
Ganges. The annual pilgrimage swells on
these occasions to vast proportions, and the
authorities are preparing by lighting up the
camp area outside the city walls with elec-
tricity. Also, there will be loud speakers
for the Brahmins who bless the waters be-
fore the ceremonial dip. In case the hun-
dreds of conflicting sects bite thumbs at
each other, a large police-force wall be
drafted to the spot and there will be a special
medical and sanitary force, since the festival
■ is one of the most notorious disseminators
of small-pox and cholera in Hind.
“SIR ROGER DE COVERLEY.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hoi Sir Roger Coverley,
Lead your lass right loverly!
Now you’re both the middle in
Timin’ to the fiddlin’,
Up to the top you go rollickin’
With your dumble-dollikin,
Backwards and forwards and bow, as you
Hand her past her jolly kin !
Bing, dong, derry-ly,
Let the dance go merrily!
Set! Swing—handily —
While the tune goes dandily.
Hey! My Lady Jinnefer,
Lift your dainty pinnafer!
Toss your head so prettily,
Let your tongue run wittily.
What if your waist he should squeeze a bit,
Lads all love to tease a bit.
Even a maid who goes warily
Ne’er need fear to please a bit!
Round! Back! Cheerily!
Swing your partner merrily!
Up! Down! Handily!
Make a leg show dandily!
Grandfer, when lie’s put to it,
Shakes a nimble foot to it.
Grandma shakes her head at him,
Shouts “It’s time for bed!” at him!
Ev’ryone laughing and chatterin’ —
Hear their shoes a-clatterin’,
When old “Sir Roger de Coverley”
Sets their feet a-patterin’!
Up! Round! Down again!
( Grandma’s ripped her gown again.)
Fiddler’s broken his string, and so
“God Save Our King!”
S.A.
CHARLES HENRY SOUTER.


d
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND 8. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. 0. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD.
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1)
(2)
Because of Annual Bonuses to folicy-holders.
In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sue. assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
m In the event of loss of eye or limb through acciaent, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
Lv PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
i0) N0 EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Avnlications tor Agencies invited from men (, integrity.
„ „ o . , y BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Show Boat”
Criterion “Lombardi, Ltd.”
Palace J.C.W. World’s Entertainers
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Hold Everything”
New Comedy “Brewster’s Millions”
Kino’s “Whoopee”
Tivou Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
State . Movies and Talkies
The Bulletin was present behind the
scenes on Armistice night at the inaugura-
tion of still another form of theatrical enter-
tainment. It was a performance of “The
White Chateau,” broadcast from 3LO, Mel-
bourne, and relayed by 2FC, Sydney. It
was specially written for the British Broad-
casting Company by Capt. Berkeley, one
time of Melbourne. The six acts revolve
around a chateau situated in an unnamed
neutral country invaded by foreign armies.
The chateau becomes successively a G.H.Q.,
a machine-gun nest and a shapeless heap of
ruins in No Man’s Land. Finally, after the
peace bugles have blown, it is rebuilt by a
daughter of the house, who has married an
officer met during her experience as ]a
V.A.D.
For stage setting there were two micro-
phones standing back to back, each with a
couple of characters glued to it. The orches-
tra sat opposite another microphone, and
the announcer had one all to himself. Still
another stood before a table covered with a
heterogeneous collection of objects. Ther,e
was a basin of size, in which the director
paddled a couple of sticks to imitate an army
marching through the mud. A siren whistle
conveyed the effect of approaching shells,
arid a chain hastily lifted up and dropped
on to a piece of tin provided the explosions.
A couple of canes smacked on, the seat of a
chair gave an excellent rendering of the
horror of machine-gun fire, and a brace and
bit slowly revolved suggested the raising
of a bed in a military hospital. A door
lying flat on a table was frequently in use.
Whenever a character entered or left a
room, the operator lifted the door, let it
go with a bang and twisted the knob. Great
attention was paid to small details. When-
ever a character attached to a microphone
at one end of the room announced that he
was going to light a candle, somebody at
the other end of the room would strike a
FLORENCE SHEWELL, helping Jerry with the baby grands at
Sydney Palace.
match opposite another microphone. In a
glass cage sat the control man, one eye
fixed on his switches and the other on the
various. activities scattered about the studio.
It was his job to blend all the defferent
sounds together to make a consecutive and
plausible whole.
The members of the Melbourne Repertory
Society could not quite accommodate them-
selves to the fact that their audience was
actually an audience in the true sense of the
word—that is to say, it was unseen. Although
all they had to do was to stand at their
microphone and read from a script, the
actors could not refrain from making facial
grimaces, striking attitudes and even occa-
sionally taking a few strides —whereupon the
announcer would tiptoe up, take the wan-
derer by the shoulder and gently propel him
back to the microphone. It all sounds rather
incongruous, but so is any stage play when
viewed from the wings.
The main thing is whether the effect on
the listener is as designed. There is no
theoretical reason why it shouldn’t be. The
reader of a novel can be emotionally stirred
by the words conveyed to his intelligence by
the eye, and it should be equally possible
to reach the emotional centres of the listener-
in through the ear. If the broadcast drama
becomes the theatre of the future the actor
whose physical appearance is against him
will come into his own, and there will no
reason why the juvenile lead should ever
retire.
“Iron Out of Calvary” is a war drama
written by A. Danvers Walker and produced
by the Proscenium Club, Melbourne, as a
reply to the assertions in the press that
there is a shortage of Australian dramatists.
The study of the reactions of a Binning-
ham family to the war, has. merit—much
merit. The father (made as stiff as his own
steel by John Ormiston) is an ironfounder
in a small way, who, owing to the rise m
prices and the demand for his productions,
finds himself an ironfounder in a large way,
and well up in the queue for a baronetcy
if not a peerage. His solemn and sententious
daughter (her qualities admirably conveyed
by Dulcie Deed) regards her dads success
with loathing and, his excess profits as
filthy lucre, though a wider knowledge ot
economics might have told her that most or
the circumstances which made him rich and
ineligible for Heaven were out of his control,
anyway. An officer son stops a bullet wlulst
rescuing a conscientious objector, who turns
out to be his illegitimate brother. Here the
machinery of m'elodrama creaks a tun
loudly. Reality is restored, however when
the ironfounder’s true, lawful and delight-
fully philosophic wife (Madge Rowan)
accepts the news of her husbands early
peccadillo with a Frenchwoman with equani-
mity, remarking that it was a long time
ago anyhow, and in the meantime the tea s
getting cold. In the last act the ironfounder
is discovered bereft of everything but his
money and a prospect of a seat in the House
of Lords, while the wage plugs in Ins foundry
are striking. The curtain tails with the
threatening roars
of the strikers
changing to rejoic-
ings over the news
of the Armistice.
The play, in two
well-knit acts, suf-
fered from the fact
that on the Pros-
cenium stage the
performers look
like grown - ups
a musing them-
selves on a wet
afternoon in a
dolls’ house. Also,
the last act should
have been a smash-
ing development of
the main subject,
whereas it merely
repeated the lesser
themes pianissimo.
Nevertheless, the
piece contains
much episodic mat-
ter for reflection,
and when Mr.
Walker has sternly
put behind him the
temptation to use
devices for obtain-
ing laughs which
have earned the
old-age pension, he
should do some-
thing startling.
Gregan Mc-
Mahon’s counter-
blast to the talkies
is prospering mar-
vellously at Mel-
bourne Palace.
When The Bulle-
tin last looked in,
the house was full
of students of the
intellectual drama.
The Bulletin’s bruising correspondent
has his own opinions about Gus Bluett’s
form as a pugilist in “Hold Everything” at
Melbourne Royal, but they are unprintable.
From the merely theatrical point of view it
may be remarked that Bluett makes a gay
evening out of a show that is otherwise some-
what deficient in the musicomedy virtues.
On The Bulletin’s last visit the piece
was being surveyed by a rapt multitude, and
the Kendalls were as tireless as ever in the
exercise of their abounding dancing talent.
* # *
Last week Sydney music-lovers heard
Madame Joy McArden, a recent addition to
the staff of Melbourne’s Uni. Con. It was at
a Wagnerian concert given by the Phil., at
the Town Hall, and in such old favorites
as “Elizabeth’s Prayer,” “Elsa’s Dream” and
“Senta’s Ballad” the lady showed not only
a masterly technique, but a dramatic
fire that recalled
Nordica to the
middle-aged and
Patti to the grey-
beards. A soprano
with bell-like son-
orous lower notes,
she attacked the
most difficult inter-
vals with ease and
accuracy. “Tann-
hauser,” “Lohen-
grin” and the “Fly-
in g Dutchman”
were raided for
their most popular
numbers, and the
“Pilgrims’,” “Spin-
ning” and “Bridal”
choruses were
given by a choir
whose weakness in
the alto section
was its only seri-
ous fault. Gerald
Peachell waved a
baton over an
orchestral tea m
good but not quite
up to the “Tann-
hauser” overture.
Raymond Beatty,
Wilfred T h o m a s
and Charles Niels
.sang the big solos
of the trilogy, and
Florence Yates
sang at least plea-
santly some of the
music allotted to
Ma r y in tli e
“Dutchman.”
* *
Jongen’s Sonata
Op. 34, by a mod-
ern but not futur-
istic Belgian com-
poser, was chosen
by Inez Lang as
the star item of her
violin recital at Sydney Uni. Con. last week, and
for fireworks there was a Paganini Caprice.
With Lindley Evans at the piano, she played
the Mozart Concerto' in I). Miss Lang has
considerable digital ability, gets a mellow
tone and interprets some things very sym-
pathetically. She deserves thanks for intro-
ducing the Jorgen number, which should be
heard again.
¥
At Brisbane Royal the Bramleys have
revived “Nell Gwynne” to the usual crowded
house. Nellie was Nell, Robert Ginns Roland,
Milroy King Charles and Ronald Riley an
amusing Bellicose. “Aloma,” an island tale,
is the next offering.
Talkies continue at His Majesty’s. The
Regent could have picked a better bill of fare
to begin with.
V
The Frank O’Brian melange at Sydney
Fullers is still slopping over with satisfaction
for its patrons and contains a satisfying
measure of the bright and clever sketches in
which the O’Brian specialises. There is
an excellent ballet, headed on occasion by
Janice Hart, and with Iris Gormley con-
spicuous in its ranks. Marie Ward,
Mabelle Morgan, Joe Hudson and Gordon
Norville are others prominent in a bright bi’l
* # *
Wilkie did so well out of the three
eighteenth-century comedies he revived at
Newtown Majestic that he has re-revived
tli.em. “The Rivals,” this afternoon (Wednes-
day) and for three nights, closes their run ;
then the, Bard, beginning with “Henry the
Eighth” on Saturday afternoon, with “Twelfh
Night” and “The Merchant of Venice” next
on the list, which includes “Lear” and other
comparative rarities. This will probably be
Wilkie’s last season at the Suburban house
that has treated him so well. Henceforth the
talkies, will coo it there.
The talkies, however, are not having things
all their, own way. Indeed, some of them
would be more comfortable with the busi-
ness that Carrillo’s picturesque acting lias
been drawing to the Criterion for 13 weeks.
The expensive “Show Boat” is also going
well at Her Majesty’s, with the Lascelles
doing fine musicomedy work in the lead. At
the Palace the World Entertainers are get-
ting to the end of their vaudeville run. A
bit more variety in their turns and they
might have lasted longer.
In movies “The Dance of Life” has had
the sort of run the poor thing deserved at
the Prince Edward. Something more promis-
ing is billed for Friday—Moran and Mack,
the Two Black Crows, in “Why Bring That
Up?” “The Cock-eyed World” is packing
the Royal even at matinees. Artistically it
is nothing remarkable, but apparently it
holds the right ingredients to suit the talkie-
goer’s taste. “Behind That Curtain” at the
Regent, “The Cocoanuts” at the Capitol,
“Noah’s Ark” at'the Lyceum. “My Man”
at the Haymarket, and “The Dummy” and
“The Single Standard” at the State are the
other principal offerings. Local items in the
State bill include the Fox Movietone version
of a wine-tasting affair at Emu Plains
ALATHEA SIDDONS, to lead in Sydney Turret’s production
of “the Silver Cord.”
(N.S.W.), and a pair of cats swimming
the Yarra. Will Prior’s orchestra main-
tains its usual standard, but a stage turn
in which four supposed Robots appear lacks
good lines and is acted very limply.
* * *
Next Wednesday Sydney Playboxers wall
try their hands on Eugene O’Neill’s remark-
able marathon play “Strange Interlude,’’
which when produced in New York started in
the afternoon, the audience retiring for
dinner and afterwards coming back for
more. Duncan Macdougall is restrict 5 ng lbs
effort to the first six of the nine acts, which
he expects to fit into the customary theatre
hours.
“Chevroford” : On my way to the theatre
I observed a closed van drawn up amongst
the limousines outside the State Theatre,
Melbourne. The unusual object moved me
to put a leading question to the parking
attendant. A family were inside, comfortably
asleep on bunks. The parents were looking at
the latest appassionata by Greta Garbo. For
an extra bob the council official kept an
ear lifting for signs of anything untoward
inside the peripatetic cr&ehe. It was one
way of solving the domestic problem.
“Hamfat” : Cecil Ward had been so long
off the stage that for obits published when
he died the other day the material had to
be dug from 20-odd years ago. He
came to Australia and made his fortune
—by marrying a South Australian heiress.
. Thereafter he did not worry about the stage;
he even wanted to break his contract with
‘B. and B. when it came to the point of
making an Indian tour. ITe was regarded
as the finest juvenile seen on the stage in
Australia; he had splendid ease of manner,
a fine figure and a pleasant voice.
“Cine Ma” : The talkie entrepreneurs have
at last awakened to the fact that even shadow
comedians must wait for the laughs. Recently
an elaborate experiment was staged at Holly-
wood. Two leading funnybones did their
stuff before an audience of 500 extras. The
incidence of the laughter and the period
thereof were carefully recorded, and to make
assurance doubly sure the process was
repeated again and again before a different
crowd of people. When the act was finally
shot the comedians left a blank after each
successful joke for audiences the world over
to write their hilarious responses in. There
is only one flaw in the system. A foreign
country might not see a point which is
screamingly patent to America.


□
a
i
one of the Century’s Greatest Gifts
Don’t envy those who have a Car _
buy one -and gather Health & Happiness!
JIM.
&
10X0
w
mm
■
■fWflT'
*&ZA:
J 6.O»V"°
i YjßEy
mu
s>
sf,
as
mmmrn
mmm
m-Mf
■
s'
si
as
#
m
\. Cv
t* **
1
■' •:••'•• • 1
r
Dunlop Perdnau Rubber Co. Ltd.
Melbourne
Adelaide
Sydney
Perth
Brisbane
Hobart
Buy from your local Agent!
kWNING A CAR unquestionably
adds a new zest to life —and
everyone who buys an automo-
bile, whether it be a luxurious
Sedan or a modest light car, soon appre-
ciates how much better it makes life worth
living.
One thing is certain —few who once enjoy
the benefits and delights of motoring ever
willingly give it up —and that is why there
are over 600,000 automobiles on Austra-
lian roads.
Happy family outings ♦ ♦ . quicker and
more comfortable transport . ♦ . freedom
from irksome restrictions as to where and
when one travels ... are advantages that
alone make car ownership so desirable
from a family standpoint. In fact, a car is
almost a necessity to enable one to reap,
in full, the amenities of present-day life.
The wide range of reasonably-priced new cars now
available brings the automobile within the means
of tens of thousands of Australians who are missing
one of the greatest gifts of the century.
Again, carefully selected “used” cars are obtain-
able at prices that enable almost everyone to enjoy
the benefits that automobile ownership bestows.
* * *
Regardless of what make or type
of car you eventually select, it is a
wise precaution to see that tyres by
DUNLOP
are fitted, because their quality,
strength and durability ensure
care-free big mileage that helps
to keep running costs down.
80OC GARAGES STOCK THEM
r who
travels on
DUNLOP
travels
k well ! y


R°NL°
BUSINESS
EFFICIENCY
METHODS.
British Manufacture
STEEL CABINETS.
FILING SYSTEMS.
VISIBLE CARD
RECORDS.
RONEOTYPE
DUPLICATORS.
ADDRESSING
MACHINES.
ON EXHIBITION AT
?l HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
W¥
BHKiIBIBI
mm
H
I
64 MARKET STREET, MELBOURNE,
43 CREEK STREET, BRISBANE.
GAWLER PLACE, ADELAIDE.
107 MURRAY STREET, PERTH.
"v Ilfathebl "
Consider
the High Cost
of Breakdown
It is the truest economy to choose
reliable, conscientiously made, well-
tanned leather belting. For over 70
years Pioneer belting has been made to
give durable, continuous service.
Pioneer belting is your best insurance
against transmission trouble.
PIONEER Leather Belting
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Mod era
Are You Paying Too
Much for Success?
STOP robbing yourself of your
health and mental vitality in
a helpless, hopeless struggle
against Detail. You can —if you
will —for the courses of the
Alexander Hamilton Institute
(U.K. and U.S.A.) are expressly
designed to increase from the very
outset your business effectiveness,
and thus help you to enjoy that
well-rounded life which should be
yours by right.
Write to-day for the 96-p.p.
booklet “Forging Ahead in Busi-
ness,’’ which gives full particulars
of both courses—MODEßN BUSI-
NESS AND MODERN MER-
CHANDISING.
Alexander Hamilton Institute
Courses Controlled for Australia by
HEMINGWAY & ROBERTSON.
MELBOURNE : 38 Bank House, Bank Place,
410-412 Collins Street.
SYDNEY: 38 Barrack House, 16 Barrack
Street.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd.
t Dividends ~
' Pref. To
Sept., Profits. (6i p.c.) Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
Cos. reconstructed. Pref. rate lifted £
to p.c. ; three new ords. issued for
two old, absorbing £125,000 . . 103,546
Additions to reserves, £29,937 . . 73,609
1925.. 80,872 8125 13g p.c.= 51,250 21,497 52,112
Premium on shares, £12,500 .. 39,612
Reserves.
1926*. .191,858 8125 16 p.c. = 83,625 100,108 60,496
1927. 8125 23 „ ~126,500 66,569 127,065
1928. .219,245 8125 25*,, ~140,250 70,870 197,935
1929. .265,837 8125 28 ~ ~154,000 103,712 301,647
Though Melbourne Inis been looking down
its nose for most of the year, this newspaper
co.’s profits have continued to get fatten and
fatter. For one thing big city retailers, in
order to ginger their turnovers, have had
to buy acres of advertising space. For
another, the co.’s chief publication, the
Herald, continues undisturbed in its mono-
poly of the evening field. Further, the
ambitious and energetic management has pur-
sued a vigorous policy of development by
absorptions and otherwise; and last year all
the co.’s journals, including those of the
two subsidiaries, are reported to have made
progress. From one source and another, an
extra £46,592 of profit was gathered, heaping
the total to the record figure of £265,837.
After attending to the prefs.—they amount
to £125,000 in a paid capital of £675,000 and
call for only £8125 p.a.—the balance of the
year’s harvest was a juicy 46.8 p.c. on aver-
age ord. capital compared with 38.3, 35.1,
34.0, 10.3, 36.4 and 32.6 p.c. back to 1023.
And the ords. have joined in the prosperity ;
over the last seven years they have had an
average of 20.8 p.c., and that was further
sweetened with a 50 p.c. bonus scrip gift
in 1924, since when a deficit of £103,546
has been replaced by reserves of £301,647
goodwill (£108,000) has not been reckoned as
an asset in this calculation. For the last
term an extra 6d. was sent out with the final
distribution, making 28 p.c. in all, and then
nearly two-fiftlis of the profits remained in
the business.
The board doesn’t exhibit matters quite
like that. It put the year’s net result at
£206,836 or £23,288 more than was claimed
for the previous year. The difference between
this and the profit shown in the table is
made up of £40,000 sent to the plant and
machinery depreciation reserve, and £19,000
set aside as a “property and assets reserve,
to be dealt with at the discretion of the
directors.” H’ow the various accumulations
have swelled during the five years since the
last reconstruction is shown in this next
comparison:—
1925. 1928. 1929.
Contingency reserve .. £115,000 £200,000 £250,000
Depreciation reserves .. 23,500 140,000 199,000
Div. equalisation . . 50,000 50,000
Newspaper plant leads a pretty fast life;
improvements are liable to make machines
obsolete long before they have been worn
out; hence the heavy call for depreciation
reserves. But the co.’s plant is in at valua-
tion, and the “Wild Cat” believes the board
lias made provision internally against wear
and tear and obsolescence. Therefore it
treats additions to the depreciation reserve
as genuine profit.
Another factor which has helped profit-
earning has been substantial cuts in costs,
made possible by the recent remodelling of the
co.’s Flinders-street premises and the instal-
lation of practically new plant throughout.
Further savings are expected to follow the
completion of the new paper store, now being
built in Whiteman-street. Last year’s addi-
tions to premises put £26,765 on to the book
value of freeholds, etc., and the purchase of
new machines added £41,008 to the plant
account. These and other things are seen
in this next comparison of balance-sheet
figures:—
1920. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Stock . . £108,087 £155,391 £163,221 £146,364
Debtors, etc. 56,890 320,847 208,083 188,034
War Loans, etc. 70,389
Shares in
other cos. 100 151,037 202,350 339,083
Cash . . 27,621 115 115 156
Liquids. . £263,087 £627,390 £573,769 £673,637
Liabilities.. 91,782 285,239 212,063 262,241
Surplus. . £171,305 £342,151 £361,706 £411,396
Freeholds, etc. 73,645 192,765 285,774 312,539
Mac hinery
and plant 45,796 278,143 336,518 377,526
Net assets £290,746 £813,059 £983,998 £1,101,461
An outstanding feature of the year’s activi-
ties was the extension of the eo.’s interests to
Adelaide, where it bought a “considerable in-
terest” in Advertiser Newspapers, Ltd., which
publishes the Advertiser, and other jour-
nals, including the Register, a morning pic-
torial. What the terms of the deal were has
not been mentioned, but £186,733 was added
to the book value of shares in other cos. To
do all this only £50,178 was added to the
debt; while the more or less liquids, includ-
ing shares, increased £99,868. Thus the more
or less liquid surplus (£411,396) was £49,690
stronger than at the previous balance.
Besides the c-o.’s own publications Herald,
Weekly Times, Sporting Globe and others,
there are those of the two subsidiaries —
United Press Pty., Ltd., and Pictorial News-
papers Pty., Ltd. The latter puts out the
Sun News-Pictorial, which has made good
progress of late, as well as a number of
weekly and monthly journals. The other sub-
sidiary produces Table Talk and the Home
Beautiful. The curtain has been kept drawn
over the pups’ figures, so the parent may be
entitled to even more profit than it has yet
claimed.
Still, attractive as the position is, investors
should not overlook the fact that the co.’s
results are being won under specially favor-
able conditions. The board again reminds
shareholders that the bonuses (IS p.c. last
year) must be regarded as special distribu-
tions appropriate to successful periods.
Chief danger, of course, lies in the possibility
of competition, and nobody can say definitely
what the effects of such a contingency would
be. A year ago there was talk of a syndi-
cate launching an afternoon daily in Mel-
bourne, but thus far nothing has come of
the proposal. But the co.’s success is a con-
stant temptation to others to enter the field.
To further strengthen the finances and pro-
vide for expansion of the business share-
holders will be given an opportunity to take
up new scrip early next year. Details of
the issue will be announced in January.
Meanwhile nominal capital is to be increased
to £2.000,-000 by the creation of a million
new £1 shares. The market expresses its
confidence in the management and the future
by paying £5 3s. for the pound ords., after
previous sales at £5 9s. Two years ago they
could be had for 655. After allowing for
the final div. (3s. 3d.) the immediate return
at £5 3s. is £5 12s. 2d. per cent, on a 28 p.c.
div. basis. The net tangible backing amounts
to 30s. lid. per share. As there are 500.000
ordinaries, this means that the market values
the goodwill at approximately £1,S(K),000.
The cover for the prefs. is £7 16s. 3d. per
share in net tangibles. They carry a fixed
cumulative 61 p.c. and have priority as to
capital. Last year’s profit was over 32 times
their annual requirements. They are around
235. on the market; at which figure the
return is 5.6 p.c.
Amalgamated Wireless.
Nominal
Writ- To Re- Re-
. Tune, Profits. Dividends, ten Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1919.. 13,338 5 p.c. = 7000 5113 1225 1,450
1920.. 14,237 5 „ „ 7734 5889 614 2,064
1921.. 15,838 6 ~ „ 9659 6063 116 2,180
Deficit.
Establishment expenses capitalised, £10,529 8,349
1922.. 16,546 6 p.c. = 11,136 7294 10,233
Establishment expenses capitalised, £6960 17,193
1923.. 6,834 Nil 6691 143 17,050
Establishment expenses capitalised, £451 17,501
Loss.
1924.. 14,505 Nil 7352 39,358
Establishment expenses capitalised, £102,009 141,367
Forfeited shares, £l3B .. .. 141,229
Profits.
1925.. 14,005 Nil 8969 5036 136,193
Establishment expenses capitalised, £54,592 190,785
1926.. 23,617 Nil 11,421 12,196 178,589
Forfeited shares, £193 .. .. 178,396
Nominal
Reserves.
1927*. 39,036 Nil 13,886 25,150 21,294
Deficit
Establishment account disclosed, £49,795 28,501
1928.. 70,722 6 p.c. = 43,961 23,297 3464 25,037
Written off • establishment exes., £717 24,320
1929 . .108,326 8 p.c. = 59,543 28,731 20,052 4,268
*Reserves subject to undisclosed establishment exes.
The marked success of the Beam stations,
coupled with the new agreement made with
the Commonwealth Government in Dec.,
1927, has completely changed the outlook
for this co. and greatly brightened its pros-
pects. The Beam service has been in opera-
tion with England and Canada for approxi-
mately 21 years and 15 months respectively,
and now carries nearly two-thirds of the
total traffic between Australia and England.
Moreover, it quickly became a profit-earner.
The agreement with the Government made
some of the old outgoings unnecessary, and
further strengthened the co.’s goodwill by
making its "patent rights free to the public
for five years. In return the co. gets 3s. p.a.
of each listener’s license fee. The number of
licenses issued during the 12 months to June
30. 1928, was 269,721, and the number pro-
bably increased last year, so there was over
£40,000 for the co. there. Though royalties
on the sale of receiving sets alone would
nominally have amounted to about double that
figure, the co. had never been able to collect
more than a small fraction of what it said
it was entitled to ; so earnings have benefited
substantially by the deal. Then the coastal
radio service, which had been run at a loss
since it was taken over by the co. in 1922,
was subsidised by the Government as from
March 2S s 1927. The amount of the sub-
sidy has not been mentioned, but it is
said to be sufficient, after handing the Gov-
ernment 30 p.c. of the revenue, to wipe out
the loss.
The quick development of the Beam, added
to the other things just mentioned, has
altered p. and 1. figures in this way :
1926. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Gross profits. . £158,032 £260,532 £382,631 £443,331
Exes.* 134,415 221,496 311,909 335,005
Profit as per
table £23,617 £39,036 £70,722 £108,326
♦lncludes losses on subsidiary, £2400, £5242,
£3988 and £439.
Last year the figures got the full benefit of
the developments above referred to, and gross
profits, which have nearly trebled in the last
three years, sprang £60,700. Exes, took only
£23,096 of the increase, so an extra £37.604,
or £108,326 in all, was available for. appro-
priation. After setting aside £28,731 for
depreciation, etc., shown as written off in
the table, the £79,595 of net profit that re-
mained was 10.6 p.c. on average capital com-
pared with 6.4 p.c. in the previous year.
Shareholders, who had gone hungry since
1922, got 6 p.c. in 1928, and S p.c. for the
last term. The average is only 3.7 p.c. since
the co. took over in 3913. But that means
nothing, so far as the future is concerned, in
view of the changed conditions.
The Beam. service, now the backbone . of
the business, represents the consummation
of a long struggle in which the skill and per-
sistence of tile management overcame tech-
nical and very many other difficulties. Even
so the board has quite recently had to light
hard to keep the business under Australian
control. The position is that the other ends
of the co.’s Beam service (in England and
Canada) are to-day operated and controlled
by Imperial and International Communica-
tions, Ltd., the big concern which recently
took over the Pacific Cable, Eastern Cable
and public wireless services' in Britain,
Canada, 8. Africa and India. The chief
danger lay in the possibility of ineffectual
co-operation, and of competition developing
into a price war. With a view to preventing
this the respective boards have been dis-
cussing arrangements for the .combined work-
ing of the two services at this end, and what
looks like a fair settlement has been reached.
What price was paid for the co.’s Beam
station in England has not been disclosed;
the probabilities are that it was sold at a
profit. Here is as much as balance-sheet
figures tell: —
1923. 1927. 1928. 1929.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital ..261,812 662,634 743,779 744,283
Overdraft 4,573 67,020
Sundry creditors 30,842 130,150 87,399 95,557
Freehold 9ft( J 224,051 226,873 233,366
Plant, etc. . . j 146,205 } 267,917 290,205 297,173
Beam service. . . 17,489* 214,601* 155,896 156,887
Shares other cos. 30,007 4,710 723
Book debts 54,330 150,438 146,927 169,613
Cash, etc 12,529 1,127 25,363 68,420
includes unspecified amount spent on research and
development.
There has been a marked improvement in
the finances over the last two years. At
June 30, 1927, liabilities exceeded liquids
by £45,605. Since then an overdraft of
£67,020 has been wiped out, and liquids
had mounted to £142,476 in excess of the
debt at the close of last accounts. The cost
of research, etc., then stood in the books
at £49,079 ; prior to 1928 expenditure under
that head was lumped with Beam plant.
For some time E. T. Fisk and his engi-
neers have been experimenting with wireless
telephone communication with Britain and
other countries, and so successful have been
their efforts that very soon a commercial
service will be opened with London. What
this is likely to be worth to the co. is diffi-
cult to say, but it is a great scientific achieve-
ment, and will not call for much extra capi-
tal outlay at present.
The market, which notes the improvement
in the co.’s finances and prospects, prices
the fully-paid pound shares at 31s. At that
figure the return is 5.1 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis. What the investor needs to keep in
mind is that the co. operates a public utility,
and therefore very fat returns are almost
out of the question. The policy of the Com-
monwealth Government, which holds a con-
trolling interest in the co., is that of a “fair’’
return on capital, consideration being given
among other things to the early barren years.
Smith’s Newspapers, Ltd. (Sydney).
To
, Dividends x Reduce
Pref. De-
June, Doss. 9 p.c. Ord. licit. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1924*. 63,961 11,346 Nil 175,307
Profit.
1925.. 18,357 13,497 5 p.c.= 7,500 177,947
1926.. 35.199 13,497 7* „ ~11,250 10,452 167,495
1927.. 48,747(13,499 12* „ ~18,750 16,498 150,997
Portion of goodwill apparently sold to
Victorian co., £40,000 . . . . 110,997
1928.. 33,130 13,499 10 p.c.=15,000 4,631 106,366
1929.. 37,332 13,500 12* „ ~18,750 5,082 101,284
* 14 months.
tlncludes £9406 unexplained additions to reserves.
If no hitch occurs in the negotiations, the
Daily Guardian and the few-weeks-old
Sunday Guardian will presently go over
to Associated Newspapers. Ltd., the big
Sydney organisation controlled by the Sun
group, and which welded the interests of
Sun Newspapers, Ltd., and S. Bennett. Ltd.,
the latter the publishers of the Evening
News and other journals. At what figure
the latest deal is to go through, if at all, and
on what terms, has yet to be announced. ,
Encouraged by the progress of Smith’s
Weekly, a post-war production, the foun-
der, after some hesitation, formed Smiths
Newspapers, Ltd., to take over the weekly
and launch a morning paper, the Daily
Guardian. That was half a dozen years
ago. The public backed the venture with
£150.000 of 0 p.c. pref. money ; the vendors
took £IOO,OOO in fully-paid ords. for good-
will, and a further 50,000 ords. were taken
up for cash by Joynton Smith. The fight
for circulation has been expensive, and
worst feature of all —apparently never-end-
ing. It lias been particularly strenuous dur-
ing the past year. The energetic Sun people
got control of the Daily Telegraph, which
had shudderingly transformed itself into a
pictorial, and the Guardian, finding compe-
tition sharpening, put vitriol into its assaults
upon the Sun group. It was in this period
that the Sunday Guardian was incubated.
Of course, the appearance of the new Sunday
paper intensified the campaign, and soon the
two organisations became involved in a long-
distance delivery contest. This insane race,
in which aeroplanes, powerful motor-cars
and special trains were used, did neither of
the organisations any good, but ate into the
earnings of both.
By the time the daily was 14 months
old 'it had lost £101,378. including prelimi-
nary exes., and £IOO,OOO of that was capital-
ised. Over the same 14 months the weekly
made a profit of £36,141 net. Since then the
earnings of the two papers have not been
separated in the published accounts, but the
daily, which appeared to have turned the
corner a couple of years or so ago, cannot
be contributing much net profit, or else the
weekly has slipped badly. For the 12
months to June 30 last the accounts claimed
a profit of £40,337, or £7076 more than for
the previous year. The £37,332 shown in
the table is arrived at after allowing for
an unexplained reduction of £3005 in sun-
dry reserves (£50,303), some or all of which
may not have been true profit. After attend-
ing to the pref.- requirements the balance of
the year’s net earnings was 15.8 p.c. on ord.
capital compared with 13.1, 23.5, 14.6, 3.2
p.c. and a loss back to the time the co.
started. The ords. got an extra 2£ p.c.,
making 124 p.c. for the year.
No doubt if the sale is completed the new
control will abandon some of the Guar-
dian’s expensive circulation schemes, and
probably modify others, in which case the
daily can be expected to show a satisfac-
tory return, provided sales can be held. What
is to be done with the Sunday Guardian
remains to be seen.
A couple of years ago the co. sold the
goodwill of Smith’s Weekly in Vic.. S.
Aus., Westralia and Tas. to a .subsidiary.
Smith’s Victorian Publishing Cos., Ltd., for
£IOO,OOO in fully-paid ords. In the parent co.’s
books the visible result was a reduction of
£40,000 in goodwill (to £160,000). and appa-
rently £49,000-odd was struck off the hook
value of share holdings. Subject to the rights
of its own prefs. the parent lias guaranteed
capital and div. on £150,000 of 8 p.c. cum.
prefs. in the pup. which thus far lias been
able to earn sufficient to pay its own pref.
requirements.
Here is the parent co.’s position as
balance-sheet figures disclose it
1924. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital. . £299,966 £299,993 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities .. 55,277 57,212 191,964 190,693
Freeholds . . 43,155 51,316 160,978 161,857
Plant, etc. .. 67,427 62,438 78,906 71,469
Stock ■ .. 17,735 20,028 40,092 32,482
Book debts . . 51,072 58,069 62,717 83,189
Cash, etc. . . 464 8,988 1,410 792
Shares in other
cos. . .. 84 120 50,870 50,870
During the last couple of years £52,599 has
been added to the book value of freeholds,
some of which were probably bought with
an eye to the appreciation of property values
when the Martin-place extension goes
through. On the other hand £38,681 net was
tacked on to mortgages, raising them to
£99,573 at June 30. At that date more or
less liquids (£116,463, including stocks) were
£25,843 in excess of the floating debt
(£91.120). But the position in that respect
will change greatly if the deal with the
Sun people' is on a cash basis, or substan-
tially so.
Since the close of accounts nominal capi-
tal has been increased to a round million by
the creation of 600,000 new £1 shares; but
unless the board has some new scheme afoot
it is unlikely that anew issue will be neces-
sary if the Guardian is sold. At present the
public is interested only in the prefs. They
carry a cumulative 9 p.c., and have priority
as to capital. Whether a return of any or
all of their capital is likely it is impossible
to say at present. Such a possibility will
largely depend upon the terms of the sale
and the requirements of the subsidiary. The
market, which does not anticipate such an


CEYLON, EGYPT, ITALY, FRANCE, GIBRALTAR, LONDON
XAN' \ \
\
m
mm
m
!
r:i
mm.
To England on a 20,000- tonner!
Third class on a 20,000-ton Orient Royal Mail Liner provides
the best means of comfortable and economical ocean travel.
Consider these advantages:
Four Spacious Decks
afford the fullest opportunity for Sport, Exercise or Open-
air Enjoyment.
Cool, Fresh, Airy Cabins
are ventilated by the Punkah-louvre System, which supplies
pure air from the boat-deck.
A Liberal and Varied Cuisine
adds to the pleasure and well-being of passengers. Children
and Special Cases studied.
It Costs No More
to travel on a 20,000-ton Orient Liner. The fares range
from £3B, single, and from £6B, return. From Brisbane
to London the fares range from £39, single, and from £7O,
return.
ORIENT LINE
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
From Australia to
London for less
than three farthings
a mile.


The Crash in
k New York
Tens of thousands of Ameri-
cans have just been ruined
through not knowing what
was ahead.
Tens of thousands of Aus-
tralians are risking heavy loss
in exactly the same way.
The “Wild Cat” Monthly
doesn’t know everything. But
it puts before you a tremendous
quantity of data from which
you can draw your own con-
clusions.
In these uncertain days
every investor —even though
it be only in a life insurance
policy—owes it to himself and
his family to keep himself
informed.
Let the Monthly help you.
NOVEMBER NUMBER
NOW ON SALE
SINGLE COPY, 2/- ; PER ANNUM,
22/6. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
For Sole.—In the Estate of James Armstrong,
Deceased. Two Gold-mining Leases and Winding
Gear, situated County of Argyle, New South Wales;
shaft down about 400 feet; much gold has been
won; owner recently deceased. Inspection invited.
For further particulars, apply by letter to C. A.
Armstrong, Executor, 26 Clanalpine Street, Mosnian,
N.S.W. — Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. —A nvr.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colmson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
L. J. Smith, Estate Agent and Hotel Broker, Ulver-
stone, Tasmania, sells country and town properties
and businesses of all kinds.— Advt.
* x * *
Proposed mining parties to Papua should make
arrangements for native labor before proceeding to
Port Moresby. Time saved by wiring the number
of boys required. Mining boys cost £4/10/- each
for any time up to 18 months, delivered at Port
Moresby, and arrangements have to be made with
Bank at Port Moresby guaranteeing total wages.
Recruiting fees have to be guaranteed also. Recruit-
ing fees, 15/- per month for mining boys. Signing-
on fee, 6/- per boy, and equipment to be supplied
each native to the value of 6/- per boy. This
extra 12/- has to be paid by the employer. Suit-
able stores supplied. A Radio sent to Steamships
Trading Company, Limited, Port Moresby, Papua
(Contractors for mail services to the Commonwealth
and Papuan Governments), and all arrangements will
be made for your labor to be in readiness for you on
arrival. Cable address: “Steamships,” Port Moresby.
The local agents, Nelson and Robertson, 12 Spring
Street, Sydney, will be pleased to give all particulars.
—Advt.
■y- * -t *
\
The fact that Pioneer Wood Pipe is absolutely
non-corrosive is one very good reason for its universal
acceptance by engineers as a conduit for practically
any type of fluid conveyance. Being easily handled
and laid, Pioneer Wood Pipe incurs very little
expense for installation, whilst its small first; cost
is considerably less than metal pipes. Write for
illustrated data-book giving interesting and instruc-
tive information. The Australian Wood Pipe, Co.,
Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. (near
Figtree Bridge) ; and at Footscray, Victoria.— Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
r
o
YG
pOORD&SON
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
'
%
DTi
L L Swift & Company Ltd.. Anstralimian Agent*. 2G 30 Clarence sit.. Sydney TH 1
IDEAS FOR YOUR WILL
THE MAIN POINTS ARE—
1. —To appoint a permanent and reliable Executor.
2. —To provide for your wife and family—
(a) Income to your wife; (b) Capital to your children.
3. —To give general instructions to your Executor.
Write or call for our Booklet ‘‘The Making of a Will”*'
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED
412 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
r
!!!^
m
/
1
<s>
Paint
[PREPARED,]
Guaranteed by the manufacturers to
go further, last longer and uniformly
give better results than any other
paint made.—“B.P.”
"KEEPS ON KEEPING ON!”
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
D
event, prices the prefs. at 235. 9d.; the
return at that figure being 74 p.c. Last
year’s net profit was over 2J times their
annual requirements.
Hoffman Brick and Potteries, Ltd. (Mel-
bourne) .
To Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividend. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 7,513 61 p.c. = 10,027 <— 30,801
1920.. 21,621 71 ~ „ 12,033 9588 40,389
1921.. 16,565 71 „ „ 12,033 4532 44,921
1922.. 19,917 111 „ 18,049 IS6B 46,789
Added to reserves, £15,699 . . 62,488
1923.. 31,156 161 p.c. r= 26,071 5085 67,573
Reserves capitalised, £32,088 . . ' 35,485
1924.. 29,686 121 p.c. = 24,066 5620 41,105
Added to reserves, £9646 . . 50,751
1925.. 21,447 10 p.c. = 19,253 2194 52,945
Profit on sale of land, £17,038 . . 69,983
1026.. 24,130 124 p.c. = 24,066 64 70,047
1927.. 25,303 12,| „ „ 24,066 1237 71,284
Profit on sale of land, £4016 . . 75,300
Bonus shares received, £5460 .. 80,760
1928.. 17,974 10 p.c. = 19,253 79,481
Profit on sale of land, £406 . . 79,887
1929.. 11,672 8f p.c. = 16,846 74,713
Dislocation of the building trade, due to the
timber-workers’ strike, was mainly respon-
sible for the shrinkage of £63(12 in last
year’s net trading result. The co.’s works
shut down for 2| months during the year,
and for the other 94 months only two of the
five kilns were fully employed. Also, higher
prices had to be paid for restricted supplies
of inferior coal. Gross profits, interest, etc.
(£18,985), fell away £6511. Exes. (£7313)
were only £209 lighter, and that was due
to a smaller taxation bill, so the net result
on trading receded to 6 p.c. on average capi-
tal compared with 8.3, 13.1, 12.5, 11.1 and
15.4 p.c. back to 1924, the year following
that in which a 10 p.c. gift-scrip issue was
made. Nevertheless the board chipped only
3d. off the div., reducing it to S| p.c., but
had to dip into reserves for £5174 to do it.
That the cut has not been deeper is pro-
bably due to the fact that during the last
two years £5400 of bonus scrip was re-
ceived from one of the subsidiaries, and a
profit of £4422 was made on the sale of
some of the co.’s freehold.
Whether the profit claimed has been earned
largely depends upon whether the provi-
sions for depreciation prove adequate. The
amount visibly set aside was £7768 in 1927,
nothing in the following year, and only
£507 for the last term. Maybe the board
made bigger allowances than it considered
strictly necessary during more prosperous
times. For the four years to Sept. 30, 1927,
£29,722 was struck off out of earnings for
depreciation, and plant, etc., in at valuation,
was fairly steady around £62,000. A few
years ago the board had to spend a lot of
money on labor-saving machinery in order
to meet foreign competition in the pottery
section, so obsolescence is a factor to be con-
sidered too. On past records a steady div.
rate cannot be looked for; and the figures of
five or six years ago are best forgotten.
The finances are comfortable, as this com-
parison of balance-sheet figures shows: —
1923. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital .. . . £160,440 £192,528 £192,528
Liabilities . . . . 9,136 10,922 8,112
Freeholds .. ' .. 75,853 79,287 79,432
Plant, stores, etc. . . 79,813 88,554 85,187
Stock 18,790 24,387 24,099
Shares in other cos. . . 26,715 41,821 41,821
Book debts . . . . 17,635 32,082 21,840
Cash, etc 32,382 28,833 32,001
After allowing for the final div., and apart
from shares in other cos., but including
stocks, the more or less liquid surplus was
£60,802, or only £1545 less than at the pre-
vious balance. The drop of £3367 in the
book value of plant, etc., was almost wholly
on account of stores (£16,865, down £3133
during the year). Plant is reported in good
order.
For the scrip sellers ask 265. 6d.; a year
ago 28s. was paid, and 30s. 6d. two years
back. At 265. 6d. the return is 6.6 p.c. on
an 8f p.c. div. basis. Subject to any
intangibles in the subsidiaries, the net
tangible backing amounts to 275. 9d. per
share. Of that amount Bs. 3d. is repre-
sented by freeholds; Bs. 10d., plant, etc.;
4s. 4d., shares ; 6s. 4d., more or less liquids.
Tooheys Standard Securities, Ltd.
This trust co. was unexpectedly launched
in Sydney last week by Tooheys, Ltd., of
the Standard Brewery. The declared aim is
to enable the brewing co. to make its finan-
cial arrangements largely a matter of domes-
tic policy, as well as to advance its interests
in other directions. Nominal capital is
£1,000,000 in £1 shares, of which 900,000
are prefs. and 100,000 ords. Of the prefs.
300,000 are to be offered to the parent co.’s
shareholders on Nov. 27, one for five, at
par. They carry a fixed cumulative p.c.,
guaranteed by Tooheys, Ltd., have priority
as to capital, and, in the event of liquida-
tion, are entitled to 25 p.c. more than
has been paid on them. It is impossible
to say exactly what the net tangible back-
ing per pref. share amounts to, because
no mention is made of what number, if any,
of the ords. arc to be put out, and on what
terms. Also it is not stated to whom the
ords. are to be offered ; presumably they will
be taken up by the parent co. On a par
basis the cover for the prefs. would amount
to 20s. Bd.
The directors of Tooheys, Ltd., are to be
the directors of the trust co. so long as the
guarantee in respect of the pref. div. con-
tinues, and it is most unlikely that it will
be disturbed, unless the pref. shareholders
do something at present unthought of in
the way of altering the trust co.’s articles.
In the event of such a remote possibility
the parent co. can, on paying its debts to
the trust co., withdraw from the guarantee.
The money raised by the present pref.
issue is to be lent to Tooheys, Ltd., at
p.c. That co. netted 9.6 p.c, on its average
funds (capital and reserves combined) for
the 12 months to July 31 last, so the new
money should have no difficulty in earning
its keep, and a bit more. Tooheys lias made
remarkable progress of late. During the
past decade capital has climbed from
£400,000 to £1,200.000 by par issues, the
div. has advanced in two steps from 8 to
10 p.c., and £384,615, or over 33 p.c. of
the declared net earnings, was added to
visible reserves, raising them to 7s. lid. per
16s. share at July 31. At that date there
were more or less liquids totalling £770,358
to cover outside liabilities of £497,220. Fixed
assets, up £1,196,978 in the last 10 years,
stood in the books at £1,593,197; much of
the increase was on account of hotel pur-
chases.
The formation of the trust co. disappointed
the sharemarket, which expected something
more in the way of. benefits than is to be
had from the present new issue. All the
same, it is a nice Christmas present; solid
stock returning the investor 74 p.c. is not
to be picked up every day. Nevertheless,
following the announcement, the price of the
parent co.’s scrip eased from 31s. 6d. to
305.; after exercising the rights to the new
issue, the average return at the latter figure
is £5 11s. 9d. per cent, on a 10 p.c. ord. div.
basis. On a 64 p.c. basis the rights to
the new prefs. are worth 3s. The new
arrangement will place Tooheys, Ltd., in
an even stronger position to meet competi-
tion, and should make it easier for the co,
to continue to pay good divs. on the exist-
ing £1,200,000 of capital.
Australian Benzol and Coal.
Australian Benzol and Coal Distillation,
Ltd., a Sydney float, is to treat coal by low-
temperature carbonisation and sell the pro-
duct, an industrial and domestic smokeless
fuel called ricol, and also the by-products,
which include crude and refined oils. To
begin with, a coal property near Newcastle
is to be bought and equipped with an Illing-
worth plant and machinery for the recovery
of by-products. Nominal capital is £300,000
in 600.000 shares of 10s. each. Of these
429,000 are Offered, the vendor of the coal
property takes 80,000. in part payment and
another 11,000 paids go to the Illingworth
Cos. (Aust.), Ltd., which holds the Aus-
tralian rights to the Illingworth process, in
lieu of royalty and for a 15 p.c. interest in
its share capital of £SOOO. The other 80,000
shares are to go into cold store.
For the colliery holding £60,000 is to be
paid; the outlay on colliery equipment and
on development (two tunnels are to be
driven) is figured at £19,000, and a further
£7OOO is to be spent on wharf accommoda-
tion. The cost of the carbonising and by-
products recovery plants is put at £96,000
and £26,000 respectively. Preliminary exes,
are expected to run off with £20,250; thus
the promoters aim at a working capital of
£26,000.
The coal property comprises 3124 acres,
presumably freehold, at Lake Macquarie
entrance. Two seams pass through the pro-
perty, the Australasian and, underlying it,
the Burwood, from each of which 14,500,000
tons of coal is figured to be available. The
Australasian, the one to be worked, is a
sft. 6in. seam of clean coal, which can be
got out by tunnelling at an estimated all-in
cost of 10s. per ton, including allowance
for contingencies. A quality analysis of this
coal showed 11.8 p.c. ash, 53.5 p.c. fixed
carbons, 32.4 p.c. volatile hydrocarbons and
2.2 p.c. moisture.
From the treatment of 135,000 tons of
coal per annum a revenue of £177,294 is
counted upon. This is made up of £96,790
from the sale of 101,885 tons ricol (19s.
per ton), £29,531 from crude oil (3d. per
gallon), £42,525 for benzol (Is. 9d. per
gallon) and £8448 for sulphate of ammonia
(£l6 10s. per ton). No allowance is made
for possible sales of surplus coal. Exes.,
including depreciation and taxation, are put
at £136,014, leaving £41,280 net, or 15.8 p.c.
on a paid capital of £260,000. No diffi-
culty is expected in finding a market for
the chief product, ricol, which has about
90 p.c. of the calorific value of the coal used
in producing it. Incidentally the large
quantities of gas liberated during roasting
will provide all the heat wanted to work
the retorts, and plenty will be available as
power for the generating plant.
Provided the technical side is right the co.
has good possibilities. In low-temperature
carbonisation, now successfully practised in
other parts of the world, there undoubtedly
is promise of a way out of the difficulties
in which our coal industry finds itself. Man-
agement will be in the hands of R. V. Sims,
who has had experience in this class of work
in Europe and America. A technical expert
is to be sent from England by the Illing-
worth Cos. to supervise the erection of the
plant, and also its operation, until a local
staff is trained.
The board is very impressive : it includes
James Vicars, J. H. Butters, John Harrison,
Brig.-Gen. Lloyd and R. V. Sims.
The end of the coal trade with Broken
Hill i.s in sight. Sulphide Corp. said it
couldn’t wait for the great central Diesel-
engined power plant that was being hatched,
and went ahead with a unit. This has com-
menced running. Preliminaries having been
settled, the North, South and Zinc Corp.
have now got to work on the site of the
main plant, which is to be similarly engined.
This site is alongside the Sulphide Corp.’s
Central mine office. The plant, besides sup
plying electrical power and compressed air
to the associated mines, and eventually per-
haps to others, will operate the new pump-
ing plant which the Government is to put
in at Stephens Creek.
=l= * -.i= *
Erection of the Palmer River Gold Co.’s
(10,000 c.y. steel bucket dredge and pontoons
is well on the way, and digging is expected
to commence within a few weeks. In the
first paddock, bored to go Is. Id. per cubic
yard, there is seven years’ work ahead; costs
are estimated at (id. a yard. The co.
owns in all 1350 acres, of which 600 are
claimed to be suitable for dredging and
the balance for sluicing. The 270 acres of
dredging ground tested are expected to yield
£350,000, and 150 acres of sluicing dirt,
partly tested, is figured to turn in £150,000.
The rest of the co.’s area, to be bored, early
in the New Year, is expected to show values
similar to tlie ground already proved. Next
year the board proposes to iustal an extra
dredge and a sluicing plant.
* :!-. * *
“Peter”: A. W. Harris, an American
engineer appointed to superintend construc-
tion at Wiluna, says the new treatment pro-
cess will consist of fine grinding, oil flota-
tion and eyaniding of the concentrate from
the float. The concentrate is expected to
amount to 10 p.c. of the total pulverised
product. Harris does not mention roasting,
but he may find that the problem of obtain-
ing a satisfactory extraction without that
process is unsolved. Even with roasting
profitable extraction has severely taxed the
metallurgists ever since, 30 years ago, Howe
experimented with the volatilisation and
other processes. No serious difficulty was
expected in connection with the treatment of
West lode ore, the board says, though
it was more of a problem than stone from
the East lode, on which the mill was to
start. The important thing is that the im-
proved method of treatment has made avail-
able ore from the West lode; nevertheless
research work upon the metallurgy of this
ore is to continue. Operations should com-
mence sometime in 1931, and by then over
a million will have been expended.
* * * *
A few of Adelaide’s needy no liability cos.
have rushed helter-skelter to Westralia’s new
gold find near Ora Banda, and secured
options. Others are awaiting Jim Ilebbard's
report before following suit. A 15dwt. reef
of good width is said to have been exposed
in the prospector’s workings, and the find
is claimed to be the best discovered in the
State for many years.
* * *
•Timble Bar gold deposits, beyond Meeka-
tharra, are recommended by an official of the
. i estralian Mines Department as worth a
gamble, subject to water for crushing pur-
poses being provided. The Minister for Mines
lias gone to the field to see what can be done
to obtain the necessary supply, and to pro-
vide means for 'treating the stuff already
mined.
:[! # * *
Hansel Mundy Cos. is still waiting for a
turn up; it has battled off and on for nearly
20 years without luck. During the last
few months the co. has had an experienced
man on the lookout, but so far nothing worth
having has been seen. The board, however,
lias hopes.
* ❖ ❖
Katu, Burma Malay’s first-born, had to
spend more on its dredge than was first
figured upon. The machine began work in
December last, and up to the end of March
earned £4098 net; ore sales brought in
£14,657. For the three following months
average recoveries were good, but dry
weather reduced running time and yardage ;
October figures show improvement. At
March 31 there was £46,293 coming to the
parent co., of which £16,293 represented a
loan, the other £30,000 being the balance of
the purchase price payable in shares. Katu
and its fellow subsidiary, Renong Consoli-
dated, recently offered shareholders £30,000
of 10 p.c. debentures, redeemable in four
annual payments of £7500> each. The money
was wanted to wipe out the debt and pro-
vide working capital. Paid capital is £150,0p0
in fully paid £1 shares, which the mafket
values around 18s. 6d.


SHALLOWS AHEAD!
“About ship! The Wolfe’s Schnapps is well below the Plimsoll mark.”


m,
m
m
m
k
pREAM OF YEAST is a
great way to get Better
Health because its ingredients
are among the most valuable
and beneficial in medicine,
and are so recognised by
medical authorities the world
over. Cream of Yeast gives people what they want from yeast—
safe, reliable action — quick, veal benefit. Cream of Yeast
is a product of chemical skill combined with resources ranking
among the greatest in the world. It is improbable that any
medicinal tablet could be made to do more good for average
conditions; it is certain that this remedy outstrips others from
most points of view; it is a positive fact that
it is safe. Take Cream of Yeast for Head-
aches, Bad Nerves, Sleeplessness, Dullness,
Tired Feeling, Indigestion and Complexion
Defects. Do not be misled by mis-
statements. Do not suppose that plain
brewers’ yeast can give you the benefits
you will definitely get from Cream of Yeast. Remember: this
remedy is a medicinal yeast-compound, costing more to make
than plain yeast tablets, yet costing you no more. It is an
efficient pharmaceutical product, honestly made to do you good;
and is neither a fake nor a fad. Your money back if the
very first bottle doesn’t do yon a world of good !
;i ■
X
m
George LcUu
Universal Star,
Relieves in
Yeast and Exercts\
WHATEVER THE MERl'l'b 01 me exerciser George Lewis
is using, he is also a firm believer in Cream of Yeast for Fitness.
THE OPINION OF THE PRESS
FROM SYDNEY NEWSPAPERS
Daily Telegraph (17/11/27)
“ Yeast has long been known as a
corrective in cases of blood disorders,
and as such is constantly recommended
by medical men. The best form, is
Cream of Yeast."
Sunday Times (26/2/28) :■ —
“ Cream of Yeast . . has been
found invaluable to sufferers from
nervous disorders, debility and want
of tone genet ally."
Daily Guardian (11/10/28) :
“ Cream of Yeast .. . —the handiest,
most convenient, safe way of toning
up the system ...”
Labor Daily (1/11/27) ;
“ Cream of Yeast is a re-vitaliser.
Its great beneficial health-giving
power lies in the fact that it quickly
tones up the whole system and so
corrects the trouble at its root . . .
The combination of essential sub-
stances . . . make Cream of Yeast the
greatest tonic pick-me-up known."
m
. ...sr#
m
mm
AT THE RIGHT , in bathing costume, is Marian Nixon, Universal
Star. This clever girl in several thrilling 1929 pictures.
AT THE RIGHT is a fine athletic scene from the Universal College-romance, “ Rea
Lips." This film features Charles Rogers (of the famous war-picture “ Wings ”)
and Marian Nixon. Both these popular stars are most enthusiastic in their praise oj
Cream of Yeast.
Cream of Yeast has received a strikingly unanimous volume of
testimony. Famous people, newspapers, chemists and members of
the public have joined in approving it. And the sales of Cream of
Yeast are greater than those of all other yeast medicines combined.
When you take Cream of Yeast you take the best and most practical
all-round tonic pick-me-up money can buy. Quick, Safe and Reliable.
Sold by all good Chemists.
24 Tablets, 1/11; 48 Tablets, 3/6; 125 Tablets, 5/9.
; mm.
x %
i
111 these Film
\ %
stars take
Cream of
Yeast .
i.
Pmi
Ilf 111
•€> A
Cream of Yeast is the Best Way to Better Health.
Ask your Chemist or Storekeeper for a package to-day!
If not near chemist or store, yost your order to Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building, Sydney.
CREAM OF YEAST
FOR BOILS:
Carweil Street, Ityl stone.
To Amalgamated Laboratories, . . . J
Dear Sirs, —I can honestly say Cream of A east is the best
remedy for Boils that I have ever tried. I may state I was
treated by three doctors' for boils without success, and I tried
no lesg than 12 other remedies without success, but after taking
three bottles of Cream of Yeast,, the boils all disappeared, and
I have never had one since, which I think a very good trial.
Yours, faithfully,
(Signed) CHARLES BLACK.
, ■ »


Keiv|-Ration
fhe
Dog food
Supreme
A perfectly balanced meat ration;
keeps dogs of all kinds in
the pink of condition.
In Tins. READY TO SERVE.
A Perfectly-balanced Ration.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB
P. O. Box 1821, Melbourne
Ken-T-Ration
VICHY
(ctLESTIN?
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere. . \
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
PEAPES
clothe men AND their sons.
Write for a copy of PEAPES’
Christinas Gift Catalogue, a
compendium of all the gifts
which men most appreciate,
containing also supplementary
pages to aid men in choosing
gifts for ladies.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney*
BORIGIN
ALITIES
FAIR WARNING.
“Gil up—git up, you stubborn old cow, or I’ll drive over yer.”
“R. Vic.”: In the early ’sixties a priest
visiting an out-back station noticed an abo.
named Bungaree, and, after conversation,
decided to make him a Christian. Baptism
by total immersion, thought the padre,
would be very impressive, so Bungaree was
taken down to the creek, well dipped and
named Billy. When this was completed
the priest gave the convert suitable spiritual
counsel, and told him to be a good boy and
not eat meat on a Friday. This Billy pro-
mised. Next time the priest came to the
station, whom should he see but Billy
(late Bungaree) gnawing at a huge
beef bone. “Billy, what are you doing eat-
ing meat? To-day is Friday,” he said.
Billy replied stoutly: “This fella no meat,
this fella fish. You takem me longa creek
and put me in and say: ‘Go down Bun-
garee, come up Billy.’ Me take-em this
fella beef longa creek and put ’em down in
water. Me say: ‘Go down beef, come up
fish.’ ”
* * * *
“Darken”: Years ago there was a Wil-
loughby (North Sydney) blacksmith who
was rather sensitive about his particularly
large and shiny bald plate. A customer one
day left his horse to be shod while he went
for a drink. During the shoeing the nag
turned its head three or four times and
idly licked the smith’s glistening cranium.
The angry toiler, when the owner had
retrieved his nag, snorted: “You ought t’
muzzle that blasted horse of yours. What
does it take my head for, anyway?” The
owner turned in the saddle. “liocksalt,”
he said, truthfully and sweetly. The hammer
just missed him. .
* * * *
“0.W.W.”: “Strongest 'baeca I ever
smoked,” remarked Fretful Fred, “was some
an old bushman gave me the Christmas Eve I
slop’ out on Bleak Ridge. There was no
shelter on the ridge, so when rain started
ter fall I lit a pipeful o’ this bushie’s.’baeca,
an’ lay back ’opin’ for th’ best. Soon- the
rain seemed ter cease, an’ after smokin’ fer an’
’our or so I goes off ter sleep. I slept dry as
a bone, but woke next mornin’ ter th’ big-
gest shock er me life. Th' country was
flooded fer miles round, rain was failin’ in
torrents, but a big cloud of ’baeca smoke
’ung above me, with water pourin’ over one
end of it.”
* * * *
“Mere”: When naturalist Burrell and
others of his tribe visited Mast Head Island
lately, they found turtles were numerous.
Towards the end of _ the trip rations -were
running short, and it was decided to add
turtle soup to the menu. They cut off the head
of one of the armored chaps and left him to
die. A few hours later he was still aliye
and kicking. Somewhat amazed, they stabbed
him where they thought his heart might
be, but that didn’t kill him. Then they
slashed him open, but life would not depart,
and the creature • was still alive next day.
So they tossed him into the sea in disgust.
“Murkali” : I think I can clear up that mys-
tery of why a crowbar stood upright keeps cool
in the sun (B, 30/10/’29). Standing erect, the
implement is free to radiate heat almost as fast
,as received. Aii'-movements (the atmosphere
is never still) circulate around it, and radia-
tion is further assisted. Flat on the ground,
where the air is hot and nearly stationary,
the shaded side is close to the heated earth,
radiation is thereby prevented, and the
temperature of the bar rapidly rises.
AGE AND YOUTH.
TOMMY: “Were you in the ark, Grandad?”
GRANDAD : “No, my dear child, I wasn’t in the ark.”
TOMMY: “Well, then, why didn’t you get drowned?”
“Fernie”: This is the true and simple
story of what befel Maimoa' Toatane, a
Maori gentleman of great equanimity who took
himself and £193 to Auckland and drank a
great many mugs of beer. In a restaurant he
met an affable stranger, and to impress this
person with, his wealth
Mai m o a flourished a
large roll of notes. “You
shouldn’t show your
money about like that,”
chided his new-found
friend. “Somebody will
be stealing .it.” There
was further talk anent
the ephemeral character
of riches, and at last
Maimoa handed £SO to
his mentor to keep for
him, the arrangement
being that they were to
meet on a street corner
next morning, when the
money was to be restored.
At this stage the story
departs from traditional
tracks. The custodian of
the money was an honest
man, and kept the ap-
pointment, bu t Mai-
moa didn’t. So the
honest man took the
money to the nearest
police station. Detec-
tives were sent scouring
round to find a big, fat
Maori who had lost £SO,
but their search was
fruitless till they tried a
canvass of Maoris who
had recently received land
payments. Among them
was Maimoa, but Mai-
moa’s mind was a blank.
He didn’t remember hand-
ing any money to any-
one ; hadn’t more than a
wandering suspicion that
he had lost any money.
So they took him to head-
quarters and confronted
him with the'' man who
took charge of the money.
He said he had never
seen the man before in
his life, but. the man identified Maimoa and
handed over the cash, a generous share of
which was immediately pressed upon him by
the unmercenary native.
* * * *
“Pompoota” : I was drawing water for a
Mallee cocky and was lipaded for a steep
cutting on the Murray bank when both traces
snapped. I hopped over to Wonderburg’s,
borrowed a length of greenliide, and used it
for traces. It was a hard pull up the slope
after I had filled the tank, and my vocabulary
was just about exhausted when we topped the
rise, and so was the mare, but not because
she had been hauling the dray up the bank.
(Continued on page 25.)
That blanky greenliide had stretched all the
way from the dray at the bottom. It was
raining while we were going through these
manoeuvres, and for a while those greenliide
traces looked like staying stretched: but the
cows needl'd watering, so 1 thought hard.
I unhooked the- greenliide traces from the
liames, hitched the ends around a stump,
and made a row of little tires all down the
slope. The little fires grew into a long line
of flame, the heat rose to the greenliide, and
as a curlew softly sang his eventide dirge
the dray and water-tank gently crawled up
the hill.
$ * *
“Cundic” : Asa kid I was puzzled why
Darky Reynolds, who was logging for the
sawmill just out of Timboon in ’9B, never
used a whip. Enlightenment came one day
when he got bogged. Most of the team
seemed to be giving their best, but the polers
would not pull. Darky went into the bush
and came back with a couple of dry sticks
about the size of penny rulers. Grabbing the
tail of one of the polers, he held the end
firmly in his teeth, placed one stick on top
and one underneath, and, holding the sand-
wiched tail taut, rubbed the sticks up and
down like lightning. He then gave the other
poler a similar dose, and when finished
there was not a whisker from the tip of
their tails to the butt. Darky then stood
out and rattled the sticks like bones. Into
the yokes the polers jumped with their heads
round near their tails, and out came the
waggon.
* * * *
“Endeavor” : A fish that failed to get away
in North Queensland recently measured well
up to the dimensions of the. many fabled
ones which have escaped. This was a saw-
fish, a relative of the shark family, which
is common in N.Q. waters. Two Cqirns
fishermen were dragging a seine from a
couple of punts during the night, when the
net tangled up with the big ’un. The beast
pulled them all over the inlet until day-
light, and then gave up exhausted, being
dragged ashore with the aid of some blacks
camped near by. Eength overall was lbft.
2in„ including a sft. saw. Two youngsters,
each over 3ft. long and beaked in propor-
tion, were found in the net, which had only
one hole of 3in. diameter in it, though the
fish scaled 15cwt., or more than many a
prize show bullock. For all its murderous
aspect, the sawfish is a harmless creature
where man is concerned. The great saw is
used to slash to fragments close-swimming
shoals of fish such as mullet, which the
toothless jaws then munch up. The yarns
about the sawfish fighting whales have long
since been refuted by naturalists.
WOOP-WOOP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I see folks shrug and say “Woop-
Woop!” .
I have visions splendid of roost and coop,
Of galvanised roofs, of many a farm
Set in the midst of the blue-gum’s charm ;
Of acres of oats, of pigs, of hens,
Of cows and sheep and troughs and pens;
Of settlers as kind as kind can be,
Back o’ Beyond in the Never Countree!
X sense the winds m the coin at play,
The sun that shimmers the livelong day;
The green grass parrots, young and old,
Screaming and chattering in the fold
Of the pungent eucalyptus-trees
Alive with cicadas and honey-bees
Staggering greedily out of the heat
With their sacks of pilfered apple-sweet,
I vision the silver-grey kangaroos
Feeding or leaping or lying a-snooze
With their funny front legs and monster tail
Bent like the fork in a sapling rail.
I see the coach from the nearest loop
With his Majesty’s mails addressed “"Woop-
And the driver mopping his brow and head
With a monster hanky of white and red.
I catch the fragrance of scrub-burnt wood,
A scent that to me seems more than good;
I hear the scamper of bandicoots.
The black snake’s hiss and the bush owl’s
hoots; ,
The ring of an axe on an ironbark tough,
And the barking of sheep-dogs, short and
grutf,
As the full moon sails through the purple
height
Of a heaven that glows in the frosty night.
I travel in dreams through the scrubby belts
Alive with timid and furry pelts.
Where the wallaby track lies ribbon-spun
For a thousand miles in the crimson sun....
Fondemned for life to a wooden stool,
The city, not Wdop-Woop is the fool.
Such are my thoughts when I hear the tongue
Of mild derision at Woop-Woop flung!
N.S.W.
LOLA GORNALL.


the vvhe e ' ca °
f thaf USU&V '
■».7£Z*rsfi* *'* °”
*SV*
• U
L cO , „
the C « is^^sabo^
■WV lfe Jt ” ?bof« o „nets-
* ceUen " tom V»^ v condioott-’
>S.^ ( Tc^’
aCtt£tS ,ov ° f I 01« smoo*^
'Equal to J Stakes 'the con«°
Its otld< ; ie at a\ •
and ‘be e OP' 00 u tes to eft« en ''
® n b£ P . .. A.,t D^oets
" It^tco^.^ets-
*»\ *'»tX. "f 5 • ” M “ i*'
&tf5S Stt * cootfott; to
Vl uxVtaU EeveVati oo m , lb v\i»es.
pto'je 1 effl ,tUW e gffottVess \
safety
rigid steervog^
. . _ position,
geat
quit ee.V-fS^
£aVc fol ?
safety- ails to *'
absomt to o, a safety*
•„« b takmg\ increases ba h
Vam*^ 1 f (juvitig' r ot Va®t
Vasute ot f con« oV > °he cat to »
P k r( , s itistattt b£ iog ® e , oU j m
t<, bli kes IU , fflv \es »» 110
sixtv
hOUt *s 9>
how excep _ . tom ut
p^ces s ; WK ,«
*»Wo* l oV ?o* °T„, *
drr^Mg^
crt "
P r/rms P^’
o*l
t/fiS.*'
-v ttD-
..ul
AU^MDt '
0Q.60
*S®44
v*y
</ a Lo»y
<*Td LW
M
sm
-^5
IP
Sfigl *I g I
rtnmnm*— .;" r • ■
. ;Hppfi
WHKm


n
a
The
Wool
is
Grown
Shorn
and
Sold
year after year. Its condition, length, quality and
the market for it may vary from time to time. But
under all circumstances this action shows decided
advantages.
SEND THE CLIP TO—
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
SELLING BROKERS. LTD,
Sydney or Brisbane.
The firm’s active, able work as salesmen is a decisive
force in producing top market values.
SIZEnTWO
SILKCUT VIRGINIA
□RAP
LONDON
EYS
10 for ©dl. CIGARETTES *® for %Jh
1001, PURE
VIRGINIA
Without any exaggeration “Greys” are as fine a
cigarette as you can buy—they are made from IUU
per cent, pure and properly matured Virginia
tobacco that gives you a cool sweet-flavored smoke.
There are no fancy frills to “Greys,” they are just
good cigarettes that protect your palate and leave
no after taste. They will soothe and satisty.
ASK FOR
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights”
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20.
LOVELY
LAKELAND
Where the ocean surf booms on
miles of white beach, where the
rolling, green-mantled hills
slope into the mirrored blue
of the sea —there, sunlit
and sparkling, stretch
the Girps 1 a n d
Lakes, a string
of glittering
jewels in a
setting of
green
and
gold.
Consult the
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU
QUEEN’S WALK, MELBOURNE.
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
“T.T.L.”: The common house mouse
listens to music with deep attention and
evidently enjoys it, and some mice have been
known to sing. A case in point is reported
from Onehunga (M.L.). The concert was
given in a shed owned by a farmer, . the
vocalist running along a beam all the time,
taking little notice of the boss. A noise
or light did not disturb it or induce it to
stop. The mouse sang loudly enough to
be heard outside the shed. Similar cases
have been noted in England. The mouse s
favorite position when vocalising is erect,
standing on its hind feet.
* * * *
“MHirrungurry”: On a far-northern race-
course, where the only drink was square-
face, a row occurred between a drover and a
AND HE WAS PROBABLY RIGHT.
CANNIBAL CHIEF: “Here, old man, don’t make such a fuss about it!”
IRATE MISSIONARY: “But this sort of thing would make ANTBODY'S blood boil.”
big half-caste lubra. She was dressed in
khaki trousers, tennis shirt and felt hat,
and the drover thought she was a man. The
crowd formed a ring round them on the
track, racing being suspended during hostili-
ties. It was only after he had been well
trounced that the drover discovered that he
had been fighting a woman. He apologised
to the amazon, and then angrily attacked
her consort “for letting the missus fight
him.” It was another gory go, but the drover
won. The final act occurred in the evening,
when the vanquished spouse gave his wife a
hiding for “making rows.’’
* * * *
“Caractacus”: When I book-kept for
Sheepshanks, of Crossbred Downs, he did not
order any tons of shovels or tanks of mus-
tard (B. 6/11/’29), because I had been in
the retail trade and knew better, but he
would not conform to trade custom in ordering
matches. A “dozen” of matches in the trade
is 12 boxes of 60 sticks, but in Sheepshanks’s
opinion a dozen of matches was a dozen
packets each containing 12 boxes. He was
a bit cranky on the subject, and, though he
would sign a cheque for five figures without
more than a glance, he insisted on always
reading over the match order in pursuance
of his vendetta against the storekeeper for
sending him a dozen when he wanted a
gross. H’e tried ordering a dozen packets,
but that in the trade was interpreted to mean
a dozen gross. Sheepshanks hit the roof
and insisted on the store taking back 11 of
the packets. Then I rode 50 miles to the
store and gave the manager a code, and
thenceforth when Crossbred Downs ordered
a dozen of matches it got what it wanted—
a gross.
* * * *
“Hayband” : A spider that spins its web
in the glow of an electric bulb at my place
has given evidence of thinking ability. The
web soon loses its adhesive properties, and
has to be renewed nightly. As the demolition
of the old web was; in progress (it is swal-
lowed) a large moth flew through a gap.
The spider saw it and stopped work a second.
The moth returned, and again the spider
knocked off. Next time the circling moth
actually collided with the spider. This was
too much. Mr. Spider immediately com-
menced to bridge the gaps with new web.
The result was a sketchy but perfectly effi-
cient trap, and soon the moth was caught.
After seeing that it could not escape, the
spider completed the demolition, and then set
about spinning his usual beautifully sym-
metrical network.
x * * *
“Fizzix”: Here’s a strange fact for physi-
cist members of the council to ponder. The
standard of measurement in the engineering
world to-day is provided by Johansson
gauges—little slips of metal accurate in
their dimensions to one-hundred-thousandth
of an inch. There are 81 slips, all of differ-
ent sizes, in a set, and they can be combined,
by laying selected pieces side by side, to
provide a gauge for any dimension from a
tenth of an inch to 10 inches, in steps of
a ten-thousandth of an inch. In combination
they are “wrung"’ together with a sliding
motion, and stick as if they were welded.
It used to be thought that atmospheric press-
ure caused this phenomenon, familiar ever
since accurate surface dies have been in
use, but exact tests have dispelled that
NOTHING COULD BE FAIRER THAN THAT.
“If any of you ladiesh or zhen’lmen like to shee me home you (hie) can have half of
me lobshter.”
notion. A pair of gauges, the contact sur-
face of which was less than half a sqnaie
inch, required a pull of 2201 b. to tear them
apart, and that’s 30 times the degree ot
adhesion atmospheric pressure could compass.
It would seem that an interlocking of mole-
cules took place between the two surfaces
either that or it is yet another exhibition
of the thing we call gravity, magnetism,
electricity and other aliases.
* * * *
“Romer” : Those yarns about people lost in
the bush and wandering in circles, dis-
credited by many
members of the coun-
cil, have received cor-
roboration in a scien-
tific way through the
researches of certain
savants of Kansas
(U.S.A.). thorough-
going blokes, who
made 300 tests before
they were satisfied.
They blindfolded
people of all sorts,
conditions and ages,
and set them loose in
the middle of the
boundless prairie,
afoot or driving a
motor-car. In every
case the subject kept
a straight line for a
while, then began to
curve, and wound up
after some hours in
circles of ever-lessen-
ing diameter. Then
they set the blind-
folded swimming or
rowing in a lake, and
got precisely the same
results. To check up
on certain aspects of
the research, compara-
tive tests were made
between a four-year-
old child and a 24-
year-old imbecile. Both
traced exactly the
same sort of track as
was followed by nor-
mal adults. Evidently it isn t a matter
of taking a shorter step on one side than
on the other, but an instinctive bias that
has its source somewhere in the nervous
centres.
* * * *
“Sea Speck”: For durability I doubt if
Tasmanian blackwood can be beaten. Over
SO years ago a Scot took up a block ofi land
in the northern end of the Speck, and from
the blackwoods that grew upon it be split
and sawed sufficient timber to build a
substantial house and outbuildings. Every-
thing on the place, from the huge bench in
his workshop to the pillars of the verandah
(which are simply squared-off trunks), are
of blackwood. Fences and gates are the same.
These latter are now falling into disrepair,
and are being replaced by wire, but of the
sturdy old homestead no part has yielded
to the stress of time except the bottoms
of the verandah supports, and this despite
the fact that the place hasn't had a coat
of paint since the day it was built.
* * * *
“Rasmus”: Grass-fed horses are capable
of wonderful feats of endurance. In 1915,
starting at 11 p.m,, I caught a partly-broken
colt and rode to Canterbury rrom W indo-
rah (Q.). 60 miles, by dawn; spelled two
hours and then on to Morney Plains, dU
miles, which I reached by 3 p.m. The colt
was fit for the balance of the journey, oO
miles, to Mooraberrie, but as a change was
offered by Sidney Kidman, junior, the dis-
tance was covered by 8 p.m. on another
horse. Tn 1896, James Brennan, now hold-
ing grazing country adjacent to Lake Yarna,
rode for medical assistance from Abbotsford
station to Windorali, 130 miles, without
unsaddling.
“Tamornie” ; A Scandinavian person who
used to do himself a lot of damage when m
liquor was Charlie Olsen, who had a planta-
tion at Lakurafunga, in New Ireland. W hen-
ever Olsen appeared in Kaewieng the doctor
overhauled his instruments, for it was certain
that most or all of them would be required.
As the beer mounted in Charles, so did ins
pride in his great physical strength. Between
jumps from the hotel verandah to the coral
below he would tear heavy hardwood chairs
to pieces in his hands, and, on one occasion,
in a superlative burst of exuberance, he tore
out by the roots the heavy folding doors at
the front of the hotel. His favorite trick
was to walk around the tables and, with
his open hand, smash the glasses standing
thereon. This effort usually indicated the
culminating point of his jag, and it was a
woeful and contrite patient upon which the
doctor had to work next morning. Aot
ever again do I drink fill up,” Charlie would
say to him, but adding thoughtfully, By lig-
gery, I hud one hell of a good time.
*** * ,
“Pick”: By our splitters’ camp in the
Nunnick jungle (N.S.W.) a mag. and a
miner chose the same ribbony gum for their
respective nurseries, and a war was declared
that ceased only when their broods had
flown. The magpie pair fought their battles
unassisted, but whenever hostilities began
the clamorous cgies of the soldiers brought
up reinforcements of their clan, until their
darting forms filled the branches of the
spreading tree. When the head of the magpie
family was out foraging, his mate was kept
busy dodging the assaults of the enemy, but
there was a great scattering of the hostile
forces when her champion returned. With
his fiercely darting beak and superior speed
he was always top rooster m the fray, and
he usually finished up the day’s operations
bv chivvying the head of the ldval establish-
ment over the horizon. But be never started
the fighting.
THE SLEEPY TRAVELLER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He’d only one bad fault in him
When tracks with us he. trod.
He cooked his share like Bill and Jim,
And never made a sod ;
He carried water in his turn,
\nd made the fire in camp,
When wood was wet and hard to burn,
And everywhere was damp.
\t night he sang a rare good song,
Or whistled cheerily,
And on the track the whole day long
Tall yarns he told to me ;
But through the frosty nights of June,
Or when we needed smoke,
As 'skeeters hummed their dismal tune,
He never stirred to stoke.
A tree might crash, the fire go out,
The coals grow dull and dim,
And hurricanes might rage and shout,
They could not waken him.
When he turned in, or dark or light,
’Neath rugs lie tucked his head,
And let the night be what it might,
He was as good as dead.
We stuck together till the rain
One night in sheets came down;
I veiled to him, but yelled in vain,
Half-dreading he would drown,
Then dragged him up a sandy slope
And trudged off through the wet
That he awoke I nursed a hope,
But p’raps he’s sleeping yet.
N.s.w.
E. S. Sorenson.


OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Experienced waitress wants position in first-rate
cafe, award wages.—3364.
Overseer wants position on sheep station, N.S.W.
and Q’land experience; knowledge all station work
and book-keeping.—3388.
Man with two sons, wide knowledge of horses,
cattle and sheep and long experience in wheat-
growing ; large plant including 18-86-h.p. tractor
and 16 horses, will undertake share farming on
3000 to 4000 acres wheat land with decent rainfall in
N.S.W. or Northern Vic. Refs. —3362.
Station book- and store-keeper (29) wants posi-
tion W.A. Experienced sheep, cattle and share-
farming properties. Refs. —3289.
Young man, Vic., baker, advised by doctors to
reside in tropical climate, seeks employment North
Q’land, N.T. or Pacific Islands. —3340.
Young man, Brisbane, wants well-sinking, wind-
mill erecting or any contract work anywhere.—3326.
To buy “Fur-bearing Animals,” by P. R. Poland,
and “Billiards Expounded” (Vol. 1), by J. P. Man-
nock. —3295.
To buy copy of “The Dialogues of Aretino.”—3280.
To buy “Barriers Burned Away,” “His Sombre
Rival:,” and “The Lamplighter.”—3373.
To buy Walter Ramal’s “Songs of Childhood,”
John Sinjohn’s novels and Mc-Fee’s “Ocean Tramp,”
“Casuals of the Sea” and “Captain Macedoine’s
Daughter.”—3380.
To buy or exchange equal value, “Historical Guide
to French Furniture and Decoration,” by Strange.
—3376.
To buy Q’land full-grown dog or pup not less
than four months old, springer or field-spaniel.—
3377.
Words of poem “A Ship, an Isle, a Sickle Moon,”
by James Elroy Flecker.-—3382.
Words of verse, “Mulga Bill.” —3369.
To correspond with M.L. reader with view to ex-
change holiday.—3343.
Whereabouts of J. W. P. Williams. Last known
address c/o Thomson, The Grange, Korongvale, Vic.
—3354.
Information Sought.
Value to date of £100 invested in (1)
the original Austral-Malay Tin Go. and (2)
Alluvial Tin, Ltd.? —3352.
(1) The original £100 was increased to
£500 by issue of four bonus fully-paid shares
for every one already held. Market value of
£1 shares to-day, at buyer’s offer, is 60s.
Cash value of original holding is, therefore,
£1500. (2) Capital increased to £250,000 by
capitalisation of reserves; this was 124 times
original subscribed capital and brought par
value of original £100 to £1250. Share-
holders received £2 per share on liquidation,
bringing the amount received for the original
£100 investment to £2500. There were cer-
tain share interests in other cos. also allotted,
but these have not been taken into con-
sideration, nor have divs. paid by the two
cos.
Re Australian Wool Brokers and Produce
Go., Ltd. (1) Are second ordinary shares
available to holders of deferred shares only?
(2) Would co. have power to declare a divi-
dend of 15 per cent., say, on second ords.
jrrovided 10 per cent, was paid on first ords. ?
(3) Can the co. issue bonus shares to holders
of second ords., and give no bonus to first
ords? —2674.
(1) Apparently second ords.
have been issued to old co.; balance (10,000)
are under option to deferred holders. (2)
First and second ords. rank equally up to
10 p.c.; then deferreds share next £2000.
Balance may then be distributed as follows:
One-fifth to firsts, two-fifths each to seconds
and deferreds. Thus, if seconds got 15 p.c.,
firsts would get 124 p.c. (3) Nothing in
prospectus gives this right.
(1) What is meant by a co. issuing shares
of “no. par value”? (2) In what respect do
no liability cos. differ from limited liability
concerns when the shares of the latter are
fully paid? —3246.
(1) The shares carry unlimited liability.
There are a few such cos. in America, fewer
in Britain, none (so far as this department
knows) in Australasia; the last to take down
the “Unlimited” sign was the South British
Insurance. (2) In most countries no liability
cos., if they are permitted at all. are con-
fined to mining propositions. The share-
holder need not pay any more than he has
paid; but if a call is lawfully made and not
responded to, the share is automatically for-
feited, though in certain circs, it may be
revived. When both sorts of shares are fully
paid there is no difference between them.
(11 What became of Daily Mail News-
paper Go. (Sydney) ? (2) 7 held 50 shares;
should 1 have got anything out of them? (3)
If the property was sold, has the new co.
paid a div.f (4) If I am entitled to any
shares in a new co., what are they worth?—
(1) and (2) You are entitled to one share
in Labor Daily Newspapers, Ltd., for every
two held in Daily Mail Co. These shares
carry no voting powers, nor have they any
representation on board. New scrip was
posted by liquidator of old co. in Oct., 1026.
Write G. C. Barry (the liquidator), Adyar
House, Bligh-street, Sydney, for necessary
measures to obtain new certificate. (3) No
record of any having been paid. Write Geo.
Smith, Secretary, Labor Daily Co., Brisbane-
street, Sydney, for balance-sheet. (4) No
sales to pur knowledge. Dissentient share-
holders who disagreed with reconstruction
scheme received 6s. per share for their old
holdings.
Under what conditions is assistance
granted to prospectors by the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Mines?. —3350.
Aid is granted from the Prospecting Vote
to sink, drive, etc., on approved sites to
which a valid mining title is held, at rates
per "foot equivalent to the actual half cost
of carrying out such work. Application for
aid should be lodged at the Department of
Mines, Sydney. Aid advanced is repayable
in the event of the mine proving profitable.
How to get rid of worm casts on golf
links without killing the grass or disturbing
the surface of the greens? —3l4s.
If this is due to the larvae of cane beetles,
as is probably the case, control can be
effected by use of either carbon bisulphide
or paradiclilorobenzine. The methods of
use of both are described in a pamphlet
“Paradiclilorobenzine for Combating Cane
Grubs,” issued by the Queensland Depart-
ment of Agriculture, Brisbane. It is probable
that after treatment the portions of lawn
surrounding the sites of fumigation will be
temporarily affected, and for this reason it
will be as well to experiment first on a small
area.
(1) What are the opportunities in the
advertising profession? (2) What salaries
are paid? (3) Where would one apply for
a position? —33lß.
(1) Depends upon the man. For a person
possessing initiative and imagination coupled
with a capacity for work it offers good
rewards. But, like every profession, it has
its dead ends. (2) Varies with different
branches; generally speaking a space sales-
man earns more tluui an indoor man. From
£5 per week to £2OOO per year. (3) To the
advertising manager of a retail store or a
newspaper or to one of the numerous adver-
tising agencies. Quite a number of places
employ juniors—lads of good education who
show aptitude for the work.
(1) When was the Great Ten-mile Race
run at Wagga (N.8.W.)? (2) What was
the stake? (3) Names of placed horses and
other starters? (4) Time?- —3379.
(1) November 20, 1868. (2) Sweepstake
of five sovs., with 300 sovs. added; second
horse to receive 50 sovs.; and third horse
10 sovs. from stake. (3) First, Australian
(5 yr.), list. 71b., ridden by W. Yeomans;
second, Comet (syr.), list. 21b., ridden by
R. Grosvenor; third, Riverina (aged), list.
51b., ridden by W. J. Bowen. Other starters:
Camel, Cotherstone, Bother’em, Empire,
Groongal, Trolius, Glaucus, Jerry Sneak and
Belham. Race was won by a length. (4)
23min. 35see.
I have recently built a three-valve Rienartz
receiver, and have obtained good reception at
A Ibury ( N.8.W. ) from 2GB, 2 BL, 3 LO and
AQG, but token tuning 2 FG and 3 AR I am
unable to bring the set up to the desired de-
gree of sensitivity. (1) How can this be
remedied? (2) What A-volt valves would you
suggest for a receiver of this type? (3)
What type of aerial would be most suitable?
—3400.
(1) Add a few more turns to the reaction
winding, and, if necessary, increase the detec-
tor-plate voltage. The reaction-coil is the
one connected between the detector plate and
the first audio transformer. (2) Marconi
DEL4IO or Philips A 415 for the detector
and first audio; Marconi DEP4IO or Philips
8406 for the last audio. (3) Use a total
length of 75. feet of 3/20 bare copper aerial-
wire, having a horizontal portion of about
45 feet, and suspended at a height of 30 feet
from the ground if possible. Avoid placing
aerial over roofs, trees, etc.
Is the reproduction of gramophone records
per medium of a wireless receiver and loud-
speaker preferable to the gramophone? 1
have a five-valve battery-operated receiver
and horn speaker. —33B7.
Better results would be obtained from the
gramophone, unless this instrument was of
a very inferior make. In order to get the
best results from this method of reproduc-
tion, a dynamic cone speaker and high-grade
amplifier are necessary, the latter obtaining
its current from the house-lighting supply.
How can I qualify for a position as stock
inspector in N.SA} 7 . ? —3243.
You must pass an examination, both writ-
ten and oral. A candidate is required to have
a practical knowledge of the care and man-
agement of live-stock; a knowledge of all
the Acts administered by the Stock Branch;
a general knowledge of the common diseases
in stock; and a particular knowledge of
diseases existing in Australia mentioned in,
or proclaimed under, the various Acts. He
must be over 21 years and under 50 years
of age. It is not known when any future
examinations will be held.
Why is Australia comparatively immune
from earthquakes ? —3310.
Earthquakes invariably occur along re-
cognised belts, unstable portions of the
earth’s crust known as seismic faults. Aus-
tralia at present does not come within the
influence of one of the greater of these
faults, hence its comparative freedom from
earthquakes. At the same time there are
weak belts where small disturbances occa-
sionally occur —for instance, along the Gulf
coast south of Adelaide.
What is the best bait to put on rabbit-
trap plates or papers? —3o49.
All decoys are produced from essential
oils by diluting same with alcohol. The oils
most used are caraway, bitter almond, clove,
aniseed, orange, rodium and pear. The
essence is sprinkled on the papers. In dry
weather water alone sprinkled on or near
to the covered trap is satisfactory. Also
imitate a small scratch as if a rabbit had
been near the plate.
What is the duty on (1) Cotton and linen
piece goods, (2) articles of furnishing,
napery and drapery (including quilts, sheets,
pillow-cases, tablecloths , antimacassar s,
cosies, cushions ) (a) ivhen not containing
wool, and (b) when containing wool. (3)
Towels and towelling? (4) Is there a trade
journal devoted to the drapery business in
Australia f —3214.
(1) British, free; general, 15 per cent.
(2) (a) British, 20 per cent.; general 35
per cent, (b) British 35 per cent.; general,
50 per cent. (3) Towelling of a kind not
made in Australia defined for cutting up,
British, 5 per cent.; general, 20 per cent.
Towelling not defined for cutting up, British,
free; general, 15 per cent. Other towelling,
British, 20 per cent.; general, 35 per cent.
(4) The Draper of Australasia, 39 Queen-
street, Melbourne.
W\hat makes the paintings of Conrad Mar-
tens valuable, and how is his work regarded
by modern Australian critics? — 3344.
He was the first painter of note to settle
in Australia and win respect for his art.
His numerous drawings form a topo-
graphical history of his times. His com-
positions, mostly in water-color, are in the
Turnerian style. He made sincere efforts
to convey Australian forms, but his method
was not favorable to realism. His fame
rests mainly unon his pencil sketches and
views of Sydney Harbor.
How should “been,” “again” and “often”
be pronounced ? —3324.
The authority who answered this ques-
tion said “bin,” “agen,” “ofifen.” The proof-
reviser queried the “bin.” The chief sub-
editor has doubts about the “offen.” So has
the Oxford Dictionary; it guesses “awfn.”
Webster says “ofn.” Fowler (“Modern Eng-
lish Usage”) allows either, but adds “some
good people, afraid they may be suspected
of not knowing how to spell, say the t
in self-defence.” There is no High Court
having jurisdiction in this matter.
What is the law in N.S.W. as regards the
adoption of children? —3315.
They may be adopted upon an order of
the Supreme Court in Equity on the appli-
cation of the adopting parents. If over 12
years of age the child’s consent is necessary.
Apply at the office of the Master in Equity,
Elizabeth-street, Sydney.
What trees can be recommended for wind-
breaks and shelter belts in N.S.W. coastal
districts ? —3325.
First group (smaller growing species to
be used for small breaks, or in association
with taller species in multiple-row breaks) :
Queensland nut, olive, camphor laurel, tulip,
lemon-scented backhousia, carob, New Zea-
land Christmas bush and lillipilli. Second
group (taller-growing species) : Insignis
pine, cluster pine, turpentine, weeding lilli-
pilli, pittosporum, magnolia, Chinese privet,
cypresses, wattles, brown pine, wheel tree
and silky oak.
I own some allotments in W.A. If the
rates are left unpaid wliat is the penalty?
—3288.
W.A. legislation provides that where the
rates accrued have been unpaid for five years
or longer, and notice to pay lias been served
and not complied with, a warrant of execu-
tion may issue for accrued rates and charges,
and the land may be sold in satisfaction.
Symptoms and treatment for hydatids in
dogs ? —3105.
The adult tapeworm of the dog, Twnia
echinococcus, can be eradicated by the ad-
ministration of such vermicides as areca nut
and extract of male fern. Any chemist can
supply a capsule containing the correct
amount of the drugs according to the size
of the dog. It is usual to give a purgative
at the same time as the worm medicine.
Don’t allow the dog to eat raw offal con-
taining hydatid cysts.
In accepting teachers on transfer from
other States does the N.S.W. Education
Department grant full value for qualifica-
tions? —3118.
After a probationary period of six months
comparison is made with a table of equiva-
lents and credit is given in all subjects which
correspond to the standards required for
those subjects in N.S.W.
The Commonwealth ninepenny stamp of
1903 gives the foundation date of W.A. as
1826. The “Swan” stamp issued this year
gives it as 1829. Which is right? —327s.
Three settlements, including King George’s
Sound, were established in 1826. But the
Crown did not take formal possession until
1829.
How to measure timber in superficial feet?
—3239.
Multiply breadth, width and length (in
inches) together and divide by 144. A “super-
ficial foot” of timber is a piece 12in. wide,
12m. long and lin. thick, or any combina-
tion of dimensions, such as 3in. x 4in. x
12in., 2in. x 6in. x 12in., 6in. x lin. x 24in.,
with the same cubical content.
I have a well in tchich the water is 20 ft.
from the surface. My house is 130yds. away
on a hill 4Qft. higher than the top of the
well. (1) Would it be practicable to force
water by hand pump to the house? (2)
What type of pump should be used? (3)
How many gallons an hour could a man
pump? (4) What size windmill, with an
ordinary wind, would pump for stock pur-
poses— (a) 1000, (b) 2000 gallons per 24
hours? (5) What size windmill would
pump 1000 gallons a'■ day to a tank situated
300 yds. away and 100 ft. higher than the
ground level of the well? —3071.
(1) Yes. (2) A force pump. (3) About
250 gallons per hour, depending on the type
of pump and energy of the operator. (4)
(a) 10ft. mill; (b) 12ft. mill. (5) 14ft.
mill.
(1) How much does it cost America a
year to enforce prohibition? (2) The popu-
lation of America that comes under the laic?
(3) If prohibition was introduced in Aus-
tralia, how much would be lost on (a)
Australian-made liquors, (b) imported
liquors? (4) How many people are em-
ployed in Australia in the manufacture of
intoxicating liquors, including carters,
drivers, clerks, etc., and what are their
earnings per year? —3292.
(1) Mrs. Willabrandt, late Asst. Attorney-
General. says the cost of enforcing prohibi-
tion is 12 cents (6d.) per annum per head of
population. Commissioner Dr. Doran says
the sale of collections of confiscated liquor
more than meets the cost. (2) All. (3) (a)
£8,000,000 in excise ; (b) £2,900,000 in duty.
(4) Breweries in 1927 employed 3844 per-
sons ; and £1,173,086 was paid in wages.
How to secure a hawker's license in
N.S.W., and the cost? —3290.
Application may be made on the first ordi-
nary sitting day of any month to a Court
of Petty Sessions sitting in the district
wherein the applicant usually resides.
Licenses remain in force throughout the
State from Ist day of month next ensuing
the granting thereof to December 31. For a
foot license the fee is £1 per annum or pro-
portionate amount to December 31, and for
a vehicle license the fee is £2 per annum or
proportionate amount. For a foot license the
applicant must produce a certificate of good
character from two known respectable inhabi-
tants of the district within which applica-
tion is made, and for a vehicle license he
must enter into a recognisance, with two
sureties in £2O each, to comply with the pro-
visions of the law.
Information Supplied.
2919. —Captain Hart sailed the waters of
s.-e. Australia in the early days of last
century. His first command was the Eliza-
beth, a sealer, from Launceston to Portland
Bay and Kangaroo Island. H'e went to Eng-
land in 1835 and brought back the .Isabella.
He ran her on Cape Nelson, a total wreck
in 1837. He then took cattle in the Hope
to Sydney, Portland and Adelaide, overlanded
a large mob from Darlot’s Creek to Adelaide
in 183 S, and then went back to the sea in
the Rafrid. Politics then attracted him and
he ended up a C.M.G. and Premier of
S.A., dying in 1873 at 69. —“Leo Lear.”
Brief Answers.
A.E.11.: No, it is waiting for something
to turn up. There would be no liquidation div.,
anyhow... .A.G.: Communicate with the State
Fisheries Branch, Chief Secretary’s Dept., Sydney.
... rG.W'.M.C.: Voting in the 1916 Conscription
Referendum was: For, 1,087,557; against, 1,160,033
(A.I.F. figures were: 72,399 for; and 58,894
against) ; and in the 1917 Conscription Referendum,
for, 1,015,159; against, 1,181,747 (A.1.F.: For,
103,789 ; against, 93,910) W.M.: The book has
no value. .. .V. 8.: Lady Swynford is by Cardinal
Beaufort (imp.) from Desmine (imp.) by Desmond.
The other part of the question will be answered
later. .. .F.S.R.S. : An adjective applied to obscene
pictures.... C.P.: The law does not allow us to
furnish such information. . . .A.E.S.: See W. T. Brant’s
“The Manufacture of Vinegar” or C. A. Mitchell’s
“Vinegar,” both obtainable from Dymock’s, Sydney.
. ...W.R.L. : Submit samples to gem merchants and
jewellers to ascertain their value. They are sold
by the carat or by the troy ounce, according to
quality. The occurrence of amethyst or topaz is no
guide to the presence or absence of other gems....
C.R. : Read the article, “Discovery of Gold,” in Vol.
I, “The Australian Encyclopaedia,” a copy of which
can be consulted at the Public Library of N.S.W
A.J.: The mother has no claim on any part of her
son’s earnings; it is solely a question of his filial
affection P. J.R.: Try an advt. in the Western
Mail, Perth. Also, make application to any of the
following: Westralian Farmers, Ltd., 569 Wellington-
street; Elder, Smith and Cos., Ltd., St. George’s
Terrace; Dalgety and Cos., Ltd., William-street; or
Goldsbrough, Mort and Cos., Ltd., 29 Barrack-street
—all Perth... .H.J.H.: Write to Federal Govt.
Printer, Canberra, F.C.T T. 8.: The birth cer-
tificate would be prima facie evidence, but not con-
clusive if the child’s legitimacy were disputed. It
would require to be supported by other evidence
Pind: The £25,000 represented a gift subscribed to
by political supporters and admirers. .. .Yarri: (1)
The book is not yet on sale in Sydney; Angus and
Robertson will be able to supply copies shortly.
(2) The winnings in that sweep are not subject to
either Federal or State tax. . . .L.R.C.: F. T.
Macartney’s “A Sweep of Lute Strings” can be
obtained from the Galleon Press, Canterbury, Vic.
.. . . R.C.: Write Griffith and Hassel, patent attorneys,
who will give you costs in each country and
explain the procedure.... D.W.H.: If you want a
gamble, yes; if you can’t afford big risks, no
H.M.K.: Squadron-leader in the R.A.A.F. is equiva-
lent to major in the army, flight-lieutenant to
captain. .. .D.C.: Historical Society conducts visits
to places of historic interest. Write Secretary, Edu-
cation Buildings, Bridge-street, Sydney J.A.:
William John Locke, the novelist, will be 67 on
March 20 next. Educated at Cambridge; for many
years an architect. Address, Les Arcades, Cannes,
France. .. .W.J.S.: The article is the subject
of Commonwealth patent No. 6419/22, and by manu-
facturing or selling you would risk an action for
infringement. Alteration of shape would not make
any difference. .. .K.G.: Browne’s “How to Draw
for the Papers” (3s. 6d.), Seaby’s “Drawing for
Art Students and Illustrators” (15s. 6d.), Farrow’s
“Practical Cartooning for Profit” and Matthew’s
“Commercial Art and Cartooning,” obtainable from
any leading booksellers. .. .R.M.D.: British North
Borneo Herald, Sandakan, British North Borneo;
Pinang Penang (S.S.) ; Straits Times,
Singapore (5.5.)... .A.P.T.: “Toy Manufacture,” by
J. T. Makinson (7s. 6d.), and “Toy Making,” by
R. K. Polkinghorne (13s. 6d.), Dymock’s, Sydney.
. ...J.0.: Cannot trace a plough manufacturer in
Sydney named Smith. Clarence H. Smith and Cos.,
of Ardrossan (S.A.), make ploughs.... Airlie: If the
representative of the newspaper had authority to
bind her principal for payment of the articles she
asked you to contribute, yes. But the mere accept-
ance of an article for publication where payment
is not expressly stipulated would not in itself be
sufficient on which to enforce payment Miss W. :
Write the Resident Magistrate, Delta Div., Kikori,
Papua, who might be able to get you seeds of
D’Alberti’s Papuan creeper. Enclose p.n. for 2s. 6d.
for tobacco for native searchers and postage...,
C.Y.: Some varieties of ulcer need urgent medical
attention and you ought to consult a doctor at once.
Rest and super-cleanliness are the essential factors
in the treatment of most leg and foot ulcers....
R.W.: Cannot guarantee it. Keep the bowels well
open. Some doctors are using injection methods on
the lines of the new varicose-vein treatment. See
a doctor or consult a surgeon at Prince Alfred or
Sydney Hospital J.M.D.: (1) Apply to Deputy Com-
missioner of Pensions for application forms. (2)
Submit application from address where you are at
present living. As the old-age pension comes under
the Federal Government, application can be made
from anywhere within the Commonwealth....
A.S.K.: The Commonwealth Government’s scenario
competition is to be judged by the Appeal Board
appointed under the Film Regulations, together
with such other adjudicators (if any) as the Minister
may appoint for the purpose. No other adjudicators
have been appointed, so far....H.8.: Your hope of
success would be so remote and involve, probably,
so much litigation as to be unworthy of considera-
tion.... Jex: You cannot compel your neighbor to
divert the natural flow of surface water, but you
could construct a drain on your own premises that
would carry it into the nearest water channel. ...
W.W.: Persons catching fish in N.S.W. tidal or
inland waters for purposes of sale must be licensed,
also boats used for this purpose, the annual fee
being 55., which is reduced to half that amount if
the license is issued after 30th June and before
31st December... .G.F.8.: Ingersoll’s “Lectures and
Essays” give an account of the Thomas Paine inci-
dent. It is stated there that the New York Observer
did not prove that Paine died “in fear and agony,
frightened by the clanking chains of devils.” Inger-
soll did not collect 1000 dollars from the paper,
which did not undertake to forfeit a sum of money.
The Observer did not apologise.... (Many others
mailed.)


d
M^x>
I
Cos
t
*
i
»
00§
I
I
*
I
1
LJERE is the ideal Portable—ideal from every
n point of view perfect tone excellent
appearance, and what is so important in a
Portable, no loose parts—you simply open up
and play this new Columbia.
TUI
0
no
m
iaj
K 9
112 A
Senior
£7-10-0
2 / ' .-y//
E
it:
r'
r
Each Model has
Carrier for 8 Records
0
z
m
I ill
1
Columbia
&
IO9A \
Junior
£5lOO
We recommend you to add these new popular numbers
to your Record Library
07024
(4/-)
When My Dreams Come
True, Fox Trot
Reaching For Someone,
Fox Trot—Paul Whiteman
and His Orchestra
02832
(6/-)
A Hunting Medley,
Quick Step
Community Medley,
Quick Step
Debroy Somers Band
01660
(4/-)
Ever So Goosey, Fox Trot
%ay Starita and His
Ambassadors Band
To Be In Love, Fox Trot
Ipana Troubadors
01680
(4/-)
If I Give Up the Saxo-
phone
Scarce brothers
Goodness Gracious Gracie
Eddie Walters
c 'Ask Your Dealer
for the Latest
Columbia Record
Supplement
Columbia
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS.
ntovu . Grafonoia, Ltd., 39 Liverpool street, Sydney
VIC - Columbia Distributors (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 300 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
QUEENSLAND: King & King, Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane.
** A. E. Haiiold, 123-125 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
W.A.
S.A.:
TAS.
: Phonographs, Ltd., 071 Hay Street. Perth.
South Australian Phonograph Co., Ltd., Gilbert Buildings, Gilbert Place, Adeuu.,..
: Columbia. Supplies (Tas.) Pty., Ltd., Launceston, Hobart and Burnie.


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney!
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
Sydney Grammar School.
Day and Boarding School for Boys.
Applications for prospectus or interview should be made,
by letter to the Head Master, as early as possible. New term
begins 4th February, 1930.
Special features are the Preparatory Form, for boys of
9 to 12, in its own self-contained building and grounds, and
the New School House, with excellent accommodation for
60 boarders
Early application is desirable.
Headmaster: H. S. DETTMANN, M.A., B.C.L.
Chairman oj Trustees: SIR MUNGO MacCALLUM, K.C.M G MA
LL.D., D.Litt. ’’
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
"Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
» $8
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
THE MAM
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
[?] & CASNEREAGH STS SYDNEY
MORE PRIZES FOR FARMERS.
In order to encourage farmers to pass
to others the fruits of their observa-
tion and experience, “The Bulletin” will
give three prizes for the most helpful
contributions during the six months to
Dec. 31 next.
_ Points will be awarded for every con-
ti ibution submitted, if thought worthy and
whether printed or not, and two prizes—
the first of £25 and the second of £lo—
will be given to the winners of most
points.
A special prize of £5 will be given for
the best individual contribution.
Only contributions that are of practical
value to men on the land are asked for;
literary merit is not taken into account, so
long as the meaning is expressed plainly.
The prizes are in addition to the ordi-
nary payments made for all “Bulletin”
contributions.
*
SUPER. FOR THE HARD-UP FARMER.
“Glenfield’’; Following three droughty sea-
sons, and in view of the low price of wheat
and a well-drained purse, the Mallee cocky
has now to consider what is the most econo-
mical yet effective application of super, when
sowing the next season’s wheat crop.
Surely the worst is past, and most of us
will be going for a big hit to re-establish
ourselves, by sowing what was last year’s
fallow, together with the ground fallowed
this year!
Farmers in the Central Mallee, who are
guided by the results of the experimental
plots, sow in normal years 901 b. per acre
of 22 p.c. super, on fallow. This season’s
crop having either failed altogether or at-
tained very little growth, a large residue of
the super, must still be in the soil. When
sowing this land again next year, a previous
experience has proved that a dressing of
451 b. super, will be sufficient, and on this
year's fallow ground a dressing of 601 b.
The reason against heavier dressing is that
we are gambling that a wet year is at hand,
and in putting in a large area we must start
sowing early to get finished in good time
to enable us to have next year’s ground fal-
lowed before a vigorous growth of rubbish
is beyond control. Under such circumstances,
a heavily-manured early-sown crop will be
very rank, and finally grow to straw instead
of head. That was the reason why the
Wimmera men adopted late sowing with
heavy manuring; if the crop could be eaten
off, that would be a corrective, but the
average Mallee cocky will not have) sufficient
stock to make a mark on such a big area.
Of course, the farmer who is sowing only
his usual 200 acres of fallow can wait
according to the rains, and put on his
customary 901 b. dressing: he has more
chance of eating off rank growth with his
smaller area. Also his manure bill is not
so likely to give him the stitch.
THE FARMER’S DIARY.
“XSA": Every man on the land should
keep a diary. A few notes scribbled on
odd sheets of paper or in a notebook will
not do. Well-kept records provide a means
of checking up otherwise impossible.
I daily record every item of farm interest
—expenditure, letters received, horses shod,
ploughing, cultivating, stock sickness and
remedy used and results, estimate of yields
at given periods (a test this of climatic in-
fluences on growing crops), service of cows
and mares, brief notes on the harvesting—
in short, everything. The result is that I
can to a great extent determine, for .instance,
the earliest and latest dates for sowings or
plantings.
A record is kept of fertilisers —proportions
of mixtures, quantity, dates of application
and climatic conditions which either assisted
or retarded effect. This has a great bearing
on following crops and saves much money
at times. It has also tested many ancient
theories.
-Nothing is too insignificant to place on
record, provided that it has a bearing on
the common task, and in a little while there
will be found a fascination about the job
not previously suspected.
Following along lines I have found most
suitable, and to avoid creating a jumble of
entries, the daily record should be divided
into sections:—
1. —Current work by all hands.
2. —Definite, such as treatment and service of
animals, shoeing, repairs and jobs completed in
that day.
3. Rainfall, temperature, winds, hail.
4. —Receipts and expenditure, correspondence.
5-—General observations, such as periodical crop
estimates, experiments, applications of fertilisers,
controls or sprays and supervening conditions, with
reminders.
*L —Special notes as to early maturity or anything
else worthy of record under this heading.
It is inadvisable to make the diary the
cashbook, ledger and all that pertains to
the keeping of farm accounts. These should
be kept in their right form. All of these
can, however, be posted from the diary, if
necessary.
A marginal index will save time in search-
ing for dates, etc., but the entries should
refer only to important matters, otherwise
there will be overcrowding and the value of
an index will be lost.
PROTEIN STARVATION.
“Penfield” : There can be no doubt that in
Australia a very large proportion of grazing
stock suffer from protein starvation whenever
they are on dry feed.
In addition to its protein deficiency, dry
feed yields too great _ a percentage of fibre,
and is also low in minerals. A, comparison
of .Mitchell grass in the green and dry stages
is worth study :
Green Dry
Mitchell. Mitchell,
p.c. p.c.
Protein 8.18 4.68
Fat 2.46 1.96
Carbohydrates—
Fibre 33.24 41.21
Nitrogen-free extract .. 34.99 34.24
Mineral'matter .. .. 11.72 8.98
Nutritive ratio (approx.) is 1 :7 for green
and 1 : 16 for dry.
The mineral matter consists of silica,
iron, phosphorus, aluminium, lime, magnesia,
potash, chlorine.
The percentages of lime and phosphorus
(the most vital minerals) have been found
to be:—
Green Dry
Mitchell. Mitchell.
Lime . . .. . . . . 0.62 p.c. 0.36 p.c.
Phosphorus 0.38 „ 0.12
Compared with stock on green Mitchell,
stock on dry Mitchell receive approximately
50 per cent, less protein, 25 per cent, less
mineral matter and 17 per cent, more fibre.
These losses and disabilities apply in
slightly varying degrees to all types of grass
in the dry, mature stage.
Shortage of protein has a definitely adverse
effect upon all forms of production, includ-
ing wool-growth, the drop of lambs, frame
and constitution in young stock, and general
well-being. The loss of mineral matter, par-
ticularly lime and phosphorus, has also its
adverse influence upon growth, production
and health. High fibre content produces
digestive troubles, particularly among grow-
ing animals and breeding stock.
Present-day economic conditions make it
imperative that all farm stock produce and
earn more per head. They cannot do this on
feed which does not supply the proper raw
material.
A supplementary ration supplying protein,
the necessary minerals and a laxative prin-
ciple is essential to stock on dry feed, and
good results are being obtained in many
districts by allowing a mixture of
(1) —Linseed Meal (approx. 70 per cent), supplying
ample protein and a laxative oil content which
neutralises excess fibre.
(2) —Minerals (approx. 5 per cent.), usually a
balanced mineral mixture or prepared bone flour.
(3) —Common salt (approx. 25 per cent.), to
satisfy the craving for salt and to govern the appetite.
There is always a danger of salt-poisoning
from excess of salt. When not more than
25 per cent, of a supplementary ration, there
is no danger. If, however, it is desired to
further control the consumption of the ration
per head daily, then an increase in the per-
centage of calcium- and phosphorus-supply-
ing minerals in the mixture is preferable to
an increase in salt.
RAISINS FOR SHEEP NOW!
“The Ringer” : The Mildura Co-operative
Fruit Co. has installed at its Merbein branch
shed a small mincing plant with which it
is making a stock feed out of low-grade
lexias and chaff. Experiments conducted
over a period of four weeks with a number
of sheep, which on arrival at the yard were
so weak that they could hardly stand, showed
that the feeding of a daily ration of fib. of
“Raisine,” as the stock-feed is called, at a
cost of 4d. to sd. per head a week, not
merely maintained the sheep but enabled
them to pick up condition. The co. is also
testing the merits of a “Raisin Straw” —
common straw soaked in a thick raisin soup;
this could be supplied as feed for travelling
stock at about £6 10s. per ton.
CHEAP STORAGE TANK.
“Yeoman” j I i-ecently completed the erec-
tion of a storage-tank, holding 22,000 gallons
net, which should interest Land Page readers
because of its cheapness. It is 29ft. diameter
and Oft. high, built of 24-gauge gal. corru-
gated-iron with a clay bottom. The materials
consisted of 15 10ft. sheets and 15 9ft. sheets
(five 10ft. and five 9ft. sheets completing
the circle), 251 b. solder and 21b. rivets, the
total cost of which was only £ll 17s. 6d.
I put in 16 cubic yards of clay, which made
a bottom Bin. deep. This was levelled and
well puddled. When nearly dry, the water
was let in, and. it held like a bottle. A
“bush” tinsmith and a boy riveted and sol-
dered the tank in less than a week. It is
essential that the foundation should be
levelled with the aid of a spirit-level. In
my case the. tank was on a slope, and the
foundation had to be taken out to a depth
of 18in. at the back. The earth taken out
was afterwards banked up around the out-
side, making the tank more firm. Any size
outlet from lin. to 4in. can be fixed in.
A “squatter’s” tank, to give a net storage
of 22,000 gallons, built with Oft. by 4ft.
steel plates, bolted together, would cost over
£5O for the plates alone. Cement would cost
another £25 for the concrete bottom. But
that type of tank is no more effective than
the one I have described, and which I erected
at less than a third of the cost.
CRIMSON CLOVER.
“H'atter” : Building up the fertility of the
soil is an economic problem as well as an
agricultural one; but in most instances
where both soil and owner have become im-
poverished much can be accomplished with
the aid of green manuring, and in suitable
regions crimson clover has many advantages
in this respect. It can be sown alone in early
autumn or with the last cultivation of a
maize crop ; 2-3 cwt. of phosphates per acre
is advisable on poor land, and Hie seed
should be lightly covered and the ground
consolidated. On very poor land a previous
crop of cowpeas ensures sufficient fertility for
a fair stand of crimson clover to follow. It
may be used for hay, ensilage or pasture
for all classes of stock, and although its
season is short it furnishes earlier feed
than any other clover. It is a good milk-
producer—better than red clover.
A full crop of crimson clover ploughed
under is estimated to be equivalent to eight
tons fresh stable manure per acre. It should
be turned in at least a week before it com-
mences to bloom, and owing to its early
growth it is then possible to prepare the
ground for a following crop of maize, etc.
Not only is a large quantity of nitrogen and
humus added to the soil, but the fertilising
constituents already present are retained
and kept from leaching out during the winter
rains. A bushel of crimson clover seed sown
on four acres has been found as beneficial
to the next maize crop as 5001 b. per acre
of complete fertiliser. The relative increase
is greater the poorer the land, provided the
land is not too poor to support the clover
crop. Where 20 bushels of maize have been
harvested a good stand of crimson clover
turned under should double the yield; land
that has yielded 30 bushels should go up to
45 ; on land richer than this an increase of
more than 10 bushels is uncommon.
Figures have been kept for a farm in Vir-
ginia (U.S.A.) —a shallow sandy loam with
a clay subsoil and very much run down.
About 3001 b. bone meal was broadcast
with the first seeding of clover on fallow-
land. This was ploughed under the folio-wing
spring and the paddock planted to maize.
For nine successive years maize -was grown
and each summer crimson clover was seeded
at the last working. From the original
12-15 bushels per acre the yield gradually
mounted until at the ninth year it reached
55 bushels. This improvement was accom-
plished with little expense and no waste
of time. In addition, a portion of the clover
crop was cut for hay each year.
When using crimson clover for hay, it is
important that it should be cut before it
matures, else the dry ripened hairs on the
heads and stems are likely to cause hair-
balls in the alimentary tracts of horses ; but
they don’t seem to trouble cattle. It is
never wise to feed it to horses without mixing
it with other hay or roughage. The crop
should be cut when the most advanced heads
are beginning to show faded flowers at their
base.
Crimson clovpr and red clover are similar
in appearance, but the latter has stipules
(pair of small growths at the base of leaves)
terminating in two long points that are
usually hairy. Crimson clover has broad
stipules, red or green veined, and not ending
in a long point. It is an annual, and flowers
early. Red clover lasts two seasons. Cow
grass differs from red clover only in that it
lasts six years and produces its bulk of feed
much later in the season.
THE CONQUEST OF PRICKLY-PEAR.
Australia’s prickly-pear curse, which is
chiefly Queensland's curse, is at last definitely
in retreat. When the Queensland Commission
took hold of the problem in April, 1924, the
position seemed pretty hopeless; a million
acres a year were being added to the in-
fested area. In its fifth annual report, just
published, the Commission announces that
not only has the spread of the pear been
stopped, but a large area has been reclaimed.
The Commission’s fighting force is now
practically standardised. Two poisons are
relied upon—arsenic pentoxide, which used to
cost 2s. 6d. a pound and is now distributed at
3d. a pound, and Roberts’s poison, the cost of
which has been cut in halves. The insect army
lias three main divisions. Most important, in
the Commission’s view, is the cochineal, a
slow but very sure destroyer of the cactus.
Much more fiery in its onslaught is the eac-
toblastis, and nundreds of millions of the
eggs of this tiny warrior have been dis-
tributed. Lastly, there is a painstaking bug,
Chelinidea tabulata, which is kept in the
fight because entomologists fear that if only
one or two kinds of pear-eating insects are
employed they may be wiped out by an
unusual sort of season or a new parasite.
The. same agencies, practically, are at
work in northern N. S. Wales, with quite
as good results. The traveller from, say,
Mus well brook to Cassilis, which was the
fringe of the pear country, now passes
through miles of country on which thousands
of the smaller clumps of pear are represented
by only a few dried chips. The larger
clumps take more killing; but one can almost
assert that on this track there isn’t a single
healthy-looking pear left. This means that
further advances of the scourge need not be
feared.
SELECTING YOUR FLOCK.
“P.D.”: In selecting your type of merino
sheep, consideration should be given to the
type of country he is to run on. If country
is subject to inundation, never mind about
belly wool nor wool below the knees, for
if a sheep is dragging a great lot of wet
wool on its leg and belly' it is hampered, not
only during droving but also in its search
for food. I prefer a sheep with plenty of leg,
clean below the knees, and with a clean, open
face ; he will do better than his short-legged
woolly-bottomed mate, not only in wet land,
but also on the sandhills. At one time there
was a craze to cover every inch of the sheep
with wool, but breeders are now discovering
that an extra of wool on the body is
better than 21b. on the points.
If you have nice clover paddocks, then
have wool to the toes. But never on the
face. Beware body wrinkles; and especially
let a wrinkly tail be avoided, otherwise you
will have trouble with the fly.
If your land is poor choose a sheep with
long, open wool; he will stand more than
the close-woolled sheep. But if you can
keep your sheep in good heart, then go for
the dense wools. If your country can carry
and grow a good quality wool, let it do so.
When wool is. in the boom anything will
sell, and the rough, heavy wool pays best;
but let there be a slump and the man with
rough wool is due for a lean time. At pre-
sent, quality wools are receiving spirited
competition and the rough stuff is neglected.
A G4’s quality is a saleable wool any season,
but unfortunately for Australia a larsre pro-
portion of her merinos are growing 58’s and
60’s. A fibre with abundance of crimp is
what the manufacturer is looking for, and
what the grower should seek. This wool has
so many minute pores that it gets properly
nourished with the yolk, gives a good weight
without unnecessary bulk, and the wool has
a soft, silky feel.
the stripe IN WOOLPACIvS.
“Trepex”; I have just seen a letter from
one of the biggest mills in Japan to its
Sydney representative. It complains about
the blue stripe which runs up and down the
four sides of the pack in common use. The
dye from this stripe, it is said, gets into
the wool, and cannot be scoured out. By
suction or absorption the dye is drawn in to
a depth of about an inch all round, entail-
ing a loss in the usefulness of the wool, and
a waste of money through the necessity for
sorting.
There should be no difficulty about getting
this remedied. The stripe serves no useful
purpose, and the pack could be more easily
made without it. I don’t suppose there are
a dozen packs in the whole country to-day
which have not got the stripe; this time
next year there should not be a dozen which
have it.
MODIFYING MILK.
“Alf Alpha”: Dairying to supply house-
hold milk is a different proposition to dairy-
ing for butter-fat production. Milk for house-
hold use is sold by the gallon irrespective
of the fat content, although usually the
(Continued on page 32.)


dO
strops
r ‘ IT-SELF
ye*
r
/po
n
ife
Ssa
WWf
y
X:|'i
SO
31
I
: •■■
SB
iiw
v
i±4^si~:T
(Zitz
BRlTaih
J&
No. 99 SET. Contains the essentials for a
perfect "'Valet” shave —the razor, .
strop and three blades in leather- I
ette-covered case
Managing Agents for Australia »’—
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
New Zealand Agents:
VAN STAVEREN BROS., Ltd., Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch.
“What does that mean —‘Strops
itself’?”
“There’s a stropping device built into
the head of the razor —strop just slips
through the razor head!”
& '
“Yes—and then? ”
“Then all you do is run the Valet Auto-
Strop razor to and fro. Click, click —
and the blade is instantly sharpened
without taking it out of the frame.
“Surely that sharpens only one side
of the edge?”
“No, no both sides are stropped
alternately.”
“ Should be pretty sharp when
you’ve finished.”
“Sharp! It’s the keenest razor edge
there is—and it lasts for months.”
4 Stropping take long?”
“Ten seconds each morning, and you
get the same principle right through
the Valet range: 3/-, 10/- or 22/6.
All dealers sell them.”
“Good. I’ll get one to-day.”
Forsters Bedsteads Ltd.,
MARY ANN STREET, ULTIMO.
(’Phone: M4Z47).
Forster's Bedsteads Ltd.
manufactured the first
Hospital Bedstead in
Australia, and are still
manufacturing the finest
Hospital Bedsteads used
throughout the Common-
wealth.
m
3
A very up-to-date Bedstead used in numerous hospitals through-
out the Commonwealth. Has adjustable back and Hercules
Diamond Wire. Made with 1 Jin. posts. Can be made with
square corners at foot end if required, also lift-out foot end.
HOSPITAL DRESSING TROLLEY.
Large, easy-running 4in. Castors, ball-
bearing, nickel rail round ends and back of
top. Size of top, 2 sin. x 1 Bin. Height from
floor, 38in.
Manufacturers of all kinds of Metallic Beds for the
Household, Hospitals, Ships, Institutions, or for any
special purpose.
Established 1859.
Still leaders of the trade with ranges of new designs.
the largest plant
Manufacturers also of Wood Beds,
OF ITS KIND IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
Ice Chests, Mattresses, Chairs, also Steel Shelving, Lockers and Cupboards.


very where
enthusiastic acceptance
has followed the proof
of Marquette’s
sterling performance
and its a GENERAL MOTORS car
m
m
M
m t
m
m
■
mm
■
v- - ':. < **
■-?: "J
-V --
, *3gfc *
■■■■Ksi
sd^
■
m
i
m
m
«*•
*', ’%!
It;, tt.
m
■m
\
■
■
■SC
lu
i l
H
:gS.vg:
-
aa
MARQUETTE
MAJESTIC MODEL.
Wire Wheels with Fender Wells, full
Bumpers, . front and rear, and
Luggage Rack are optional equip-
ment at slight additional cost.


N
*
111
■
ai
■
H 3 1
-
Ik
3S*
m
m
mam
Ift
m
.-:, ££BBBBBB
■
IT it natural that Marquette’s
phenomenal conquests of
mountain grades should
give the car immediate standing
with Australians.
The enthusiastic acceptance
thus won by this Buick-built pro-
duct of General Motors is result-
ing in a Marquette ownership
throughout Australia that is
more than gratifying.
To-day, in the hands of
owners everywhere, Marquette
is upholding the performance re-
putation so quickly and so sen-
sationally made.
Drivers are finding it easy to
duplicate these performances.
They are finding in Marquette
such qualities of flexibility and
dash, such attributes of power
and speed, as have been hitherto
unknown in cars of modest cost.
They are finding in Mar-
quette a performance that brings
new delight to motoring under
our long-distance and indifferent
road conditions.
They are finding in its stylish-
ness a higher level of owner pride
-an unusual satisfaction-a new
confidence.
Marquette dealers every-
where are ready to provide you
with a demonstration car.
Prices from £365
Sold and Serviced by Buick Dealers Everywhere
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR
Convenient Payments can be arranged on the liberal GMjI.C. Terms Plan
GENERAL MOTORS (Australia) PTY. LTD.
Brisbane Sydney ■' Melbourne - Adelaide • Perth
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER
Metropolitan Distributors:
Brisbane: Metropolitan Motors, Ltd., Adelaide Street.
Sydney: Boyd Edkins, Ltd., Phillip Street.
Melbourne: Preston Motors Pty., Ltd., Franklin Street*
Perth: Master Motors, Ltd., Milligan Street.
Marauette
built by buiciy


m
ABBEY
3!s CsCWCS <t
V
a
\
wm
Rh
m
COMPLETE
COMFORT
With neatly low-cut sides fitting per-
fectly at ankle, with upper built up
in a curve to lie easily over the in-
step arch, this pliant Abbey black
shoe incorporates everything essen-
tial to complete foot comfort.
ORDER BY POST.
There are full and half sizes, each
in three widths narrow, medium
and wide so that you are assured
the closest, easiest fit. The sole is
tough but pliant made of the best-
wearing leather obtainable. Specify
width when ordering and ask, also,
for a supply of the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin).
Black Velour Calf, 42/ -
New summer sporting catalogue post free
on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street, and 224 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPL 151
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested. by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins ... 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
I‘OST FREE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins .. 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Martin Ditcher
Hundreds of Australian
pastoralists and farmers are
using the Martin Ditcher for
a score of purposes. It is
the most useful farm imple-
ment ever devised, quickly
saving the cost, £35, in
speed, efficiency and wages.
iaaar
Ml
J. B. WALLIS, LTD.,
Challis House, Martin Place,
Sydney
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
168 Edward Street, Brisbane
T. T. B’ld’g, Light Square, Adelaide
Padbury Building, Forrest Place, Perth
B.K.
X
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Start your fortune
o „ TH eU££B^
Get the banking habit. The most
fascinating game in the world is
to watch small deposits grow into
large. Start now with a small
deposit.
Have a Bank Account—Keep It Growing.
THE PRIMARY PRODUCERS BANK OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London.
Ask for Literature
regarding our Plans
CHANDLER’S VERANDAH BLINDS
±
6ft. x Bft.
17/6
9ft. x Bft.
25/6
12ft. x Bft.
32/6
each.
CHANDLER’S VERANDAH BLINDS are made in our own factory under the
supervision of experts who have spent years in perfecting their craft. They
are sent out complete with top batten, heavy bottom roller, single and
double pulley straps, cord and staples.
The special line of blinds quoted above is made only in the 3 sizes, with Bft.
drop, and is obtainable in English White or Green or Brown block striped duck.
Prices of other sizes and qualities will be sent on application together with
samples if desired.
Prices are Free on Rails, Melbourne.
D. & W. CHANDLER LTD.
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY, VICTORIA.
proviso is made that it must pass the 3.5
test. Evening milk, as a rule, is of smaller
volume and higher fat test than that ob-
tained from the morning milking. Then,
again, milk, both as regards quantity and
quality, will vary with the breed of the cow.
Friesians give large quantities of milk com-
paratively low in fat content, and Jerseys
give milk in lesser quantity with a high
fat test.
Dairying for milk production would be a
simple matter if the herd could bo standard-
ised by culling to produce the maximum
quantity of milk with a 3.5 test. This is
not possible, and it therefore follows that
the dairyman who sells milk for distribu-
tion as household milk should modify the
milk —that is, if he wants to give his farm,
the herd and himself a fair deal.
The first essential is a Babcock testing-
machine, the size of which will depend on the
size of the herd and possibly the variations
in the herd. The next is to find the true
average quality of each milking, and this
means a composite sample. It is utterly
wrong, assuming the herd to be split up
into three sections—viz., heifers, aged cows
and pure-breds—to obtain the fat test from
each section and then add the percent-
ages together and divide by three, with
the idea that you thereby obtain the average
test of the combined herd. This would only
hold good when the quantity of milk obtained
from each section was the same. To obtain
a composite sample, a proportionate quantity
of milk representing each section must be
taken.
To illustrate. Assuming 15001 b. of milk
testing 3.8 p.y. fat were obtained from the
heifer section, GOOOIb. showing 3.2 p.c. fat
from the aged cows and 30001 b. giving a
4.2 test from the pure breds, a composite
sample would consist of 1.51 - of heifer milk,
61b. from the aged cows and 31b. of pure-
bred milk. This mixture would give the
true average, and the sample, when tested,
would be found to contain 3.57 p.c. of fat,
and the milk from each section, when mixed,
would give 10,5001 b of milk with this test.
Low-test milk may be modified with milk
of high test, and vice versa, by the following
rule: Subtract the fat percentage of the
low-test milk from the fat percentage re-
quired in the modified milk; the answer (you
must disregard the decimal point) is the
pounds of high-test milk required. Subtract
the percentage of fat in the modified milk
from the fat content of the rich milk, and
the answer gives the pounds of low-test
milk.
The following example will serve to illus-
trate. Assuming the bulk milk of the herd
shows a butter-fat content of 3.9, and the
modified milk is required to test 3.5, whilst
a supply of low-test milk is available which
shows a fat content of 2.8. Then:
3.5 2.8 —71 b. ot herd milk.
3.9 -3.5 = 41b. of low-test milk.
The proportion in which to mix the two
milks is, therefore, 7 to 4; 7001 b. of herd
milk (3.9 test) mixed with 4001 b. of low-
test milk (2.8) will give 11001 b of milk
having a 3.5 test.
Skim-milk will break down rich milk, and
cream will reinforce poor milk; but there
is a limit, for the non-fatty solids may be
too low.
, If the dairy-farmer does not modify the
milk, the distributor will, simply because it
pays.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
What is the cause of indigestion in calves
and how can it be curedt —3333.
The cause lies in errors in feeding, and
the only cure is the correction of those
errors. Cleanliness is a first essential. Feed-
ing should preferably be from metal recep-
tacles which can be scalded out. Feed the
calves separately to insure that each one
gets a fair feed and is not unduly hurried.
Milk and other food should be brought to
blood heat. The substitution of skim-milk
for whole milk should be brought about
gradually and the nutritive material thus
lost replaced by meal obtained from cereals
or other concentrated food. Observe regu-
larity in times of feeding and of quantity of
material used. Change food gradually and
wean gradually. The skim-milk which is used
should be as fresh as possible, since the
longer it is kept the more likely it is to
be contaminated and so cause diarrhoea. The
skim-milk, buttermilk and whey obtained
from creameries and factories is particularly
dangerous, since the feeder has no control
over possible contamination. Food from such
a source should therefore be pasteurised be-
fore use.
How can the presence of the red spider
among peas and beans be detected, and can
you recommend a method of control? —3336.
By a mottling of the leaf (pale areas first
appearing along the veins and later spread-
ing out into irregular patches) and by a
fine webbing on the under-surface. Badly
infested leaves may eventually wither? and
die. Satisfactory control can be obtained by
the use of sulphur sprays, which should be
applied particularly to the under-surfaces of
the leaves. For this purpose a lime-sulphur
solution, mixed at the rate of 1 gallon of
lime-sulphur to 30 or 40 gallons of water,
atomic sulphur at the rate of lib. to 10
gallons, or any similar sulphur preparation
which will not injure the foliage, may be
used. Since it is not desirable to spray
beans when the crop is approaching maturity
< owing to the fact that the pods may be
tainted by the spray), control measures in
this crop should be undertaken when the
pest first appears, and a close watch kept
for the mite in the early stages of the growth
of the plants. With peas control measures
are most effective if undertaken when the
infestation first appears, but there is no
danger of tainting peas if spraying has to be
carried out when the pods are ready to pick.
How to detect sand ingestion in horses
and the simplest cure for same? —3004.
The animal shows signs of colic, pawing
with the forefeet, lying down and rolling on
the ground. Generally there is constipation.
T n all cases 1 pint of raw linseed oil should
be given, followed daily by Is pint doses
until relief is given.
Is farmyard manure suitable for the culti-
vation of onions P—3321.
Yes, but it should be composted. Heavy
dressings of fresh, rank manure are un-
desirable, producing crops liable to disease
and favoring the development of “bull-
necked” plants. A dressing of 20 tons to
the acre of well-rotted manure is not exces-
sive on many soils, while little or none is
required on the better quality soils naturally
well equipped with humus. Artificial manures
may be used with good results. In most
cases, a mixture of superphosphate and bone-
dust in equal parts, applied at the rate of
3cwt. per acre, will be found beneficial.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Bushman”: If you are in a district where
frosts are severe, an old bag thrown over the
pump will often save it cracking. Wind
sacking putty fashion along your piping and
save it too. A coating of tar is also useful.
“Claude W.”: To keep chisels, screw-
drivers, planes, etc., from becoming rusty,
get an old jar and fill it with rice. Place
the tools point downwards into the jar, until
the steel part is entirely covered.
“Bufforp”: Ducks must have shade in
summer, and they don’t like their drinks
warm either. Give them plenty of limey
shell-grit, if possible. Their ration can be
50 per cent, green stuff chaffed up in the
mash ; grain is not essential, but meat meal
is, with some bone meal for the growing
chaps.
“Bill R.” : When the hoe or pick handle
persists in slipping through the eye of the
tool, wrap around its head a strip of the
inner canvas of a motor-tyre. Replace and
work the handle into place with the canvas
inside the eye. Tapped firmly home, it will
not shift again.
“Otnim”: It’s not too soon to get ready for
summer fires. In many districts there is
much rank growth, the sort of stuff that dies
off with the first hot wind. Ploughing breaks
and chipping round sheds, buildings and
stack yards does not take long when the
stuff is green. If you are in a dangerous
belt, overhaul your firefighting gear. Water-
carts, beaters, wire-cutters—-all should be
ready when the call comes. A few minutes
spent in preparation now might save a big
blaze in a few months’ time.
“Borer” : Charcoal or wood ashes, with or
without salt, is not a bad mineral tonic for
pigs. Try this mixture: Charcoal, 1 bushel;
wood ashes, 1 bushel; salt, 81b.; air-slaked
lime, 41b.; sulphur, 21b. ; pulverised copperas,
21b. Stir the lime, salt arid sulphur well
together, mix with the charcoal and ash, and
sprinkle the whole over with the copperas
dissolved in hot water. Keep a small trough
of the stuff available to the pigs all the time.
“Trepex” : At the Cowra (N.S.W.) experi-
mental farm last year, five Dorset Horn rams
were put with 116 Border Leicester-merino
ewes and 90 Lincoln-merino ewes. Result:
202 lambs born, 83 twins, 7 deaths, 195
marked, percentage, 97.5. At the same time
four Ryeland rams were put with 111 Bor-
der Leicester-merino ewes and 89 Lincoln-
merino ewes. Result: 207 lambs born, 48
twins, 11 deaths, 196 marked ; percentage 98.
“Yeoman” : When laying water-piping for
reticulation purposes on the farm, trouble
from expansion and contraction can be
obviated by putting in one or two hairpin
bends (made from the piping itself) in lieu
of more costly fitments. If water i.s to be
forced through lin. piping (or smaller) for
any distance, friction can be considerably
reduced by installing a length of 14in or 2in.
piping every few chains. In buying piping
it is cheapest in the long run to buy only
the galvanised article, more particularly
where the water is mineralised.
“Boronia” : While much might be said in
favor of “Specker’s” advocacy (B. 9/10/’29)
of no cultivation for orchards in full bear-
ing, the question will not admit of argument
in those regions which have not the advan-
tage of summer rains. In Westralia, with
its Mediterranean type of climate and dry
summers, the practice would quickly result
in ruined orchards. At Bridgetown, a com-
paratively moist place, I have seen matured
orchards appreciably impaired, as commer-
cial propositions by suspension of cultiva-
tion during one summer only.
“Awani”: Many poultry farmers think
that eggs to be set should not be washed,
even though they may be very dirty. In
the second test in the incubation of clean,
soiled and washed eggs, recently held at the
N.S.W. Government poultry farm at Seven
Hills, the washed eggs hatched better than
either of the other kinds, the soiled eggs
having the lowest ratio of hatching.
“C.H.P.”: If you use a shovel to carry
hot coals during burning-off, it will soon be
useless for anything else. The same thing
applies to tools left lying about in the sun.
A cobber of mine who was a sleeper-cutter
was injured by a flying piece of wedge and
was five weeks away from work. Owing to
an oversight, his saw was left lying in the
sun for the whole time he was away, and
on his return the tool was useless —it would
only hold its set and edge for a few cuts.
“Homby”: I don’t take much stock in
“F.II.M.’s” suggested remedy of sprinkling
chopped onion round a sitting hen for the
prevention of lice (B. 23/10/’29). I’ve often
tried it without effect. The best preventive
is a sprinkling of some insecticide round
the nest and on the fowl. A weak solution
of sheep dip is also effective, and so is kero-
sene. The kerosene, however, must not be
too liberally applied to the bird, as it is
severe on the skin.
“Waldial”: In saving tomato seed, first
see that the plants are vigorous, good pro-
ducers, and entirely free from disease. When
thoroughly ripe, squeeze the seeds into a
clean petrol-tin, together with juice and
pulp. Cover the tin and leave untouched
for six or seven weeks, during which
the contents will ferment. Pour off
the fermented liquid, and wash the seeds
thrice in clean water. Spread on a chaff
sack, and when thoroughly dry rub them
up, and they are ready for use. This pre-
pared they may be kept for several seasons
without deteriorating.
“Tfl” “Hayband” asserts (B. 30/10/’29)
that damping the earth will prevent spoil-
ing the temper of an axehead wiiile the
handle is being burnt out. I don’t believe
him. It takes a good heat and a fair amount
of time to send the wood up in smoke, and
the dirt that would remain damp throughout
the operation must be pretty scarce. Why
burn axeheads out, anyway? Every farmer
now has a vyce, and the tightest handle can
be driven through in no time with a ham-
mer and wedge if the wood is forced through
the opposite way to that in which it was
put in.


How are we going to Maintain the
Crop-producing Power
of our Land
northern^
Territory
sl
QUEENSLAND
WESTERN
AUSTRALIA
SOUTH
AUSTRALIA
NEW SOUTH
WALES
VICTORIA
?
( 3W
lE can think in terms of our own
farms and orchards, or in terms
of Australia as a whole, but the
problem remains the same. The
use of nitrogenous fertilisers, how-
ever, brings it nearer solution, and
means more than the cultivation
of a fertile soil.
SULPHATE OF AMMONIA
because of the increased yields it
influences, has an important bear-
ing on the reduction of crop costs.
Higher yields per acre mean lower
production costs, and it has been
said that “a shilling’s worth of
Sulphate of Ammonia produces
a pound’s worth of results.”
If we take the view that farming
is a business —and it is—then in
terms of business, Sulphate of
Ammonia increases the efficiency
of the farmer’s working capital.
Even in spacious Australia “acres”
are losing their significance, and
“acre yields” are being regarded
in a new light.
Sulphate of Ammonia mixes well
with superphosphate and potash
to make a complete fertiliser, or
it can be applied separately for
independent and seasonal dressings.
Literature from
THE AUSTRALIAN SULPHATE OF AMMONIA PROPAGANDA COMMITTEE
360 Collins Street, Melbourne, and Box 481 AA, G.P.0., Sydney.
Keep a Box of
Always Handy
«
r \
c j
•O
(H
ifi
y
ro/*
CUTS ♦ BRUISES ♦ BURNS
SCALDS ♦ ECZEMA ♦ RASH
PIMPLES ♦ BAD LE<SS
ULCERS ♦ SEPTIC SORES
ACHES 6 STRAINS
1/6 box <s* 3/6 family site. All dealers.
There’s no Finer Healer
Missing Friends.
MORTON, FREDERICK ESDAILE, son
of late Sarah and George Leopold Mor-
ton, born Hobart, Tasmania, 1858, left Mel-
bourne, Victoria, 1866 with father. Will
anyone possessing knowledge of the above
please communicate with the TRUSTEES
EXECUTORS & AGENCY CO., LTD., 412
Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
A
m
/
Vl u
r ..4
WHAT/
WORTH
Ask yourself what your car will be
worth soon if you take no steps to
prevent depreciation.
There's a Red Diamond Product that
will keep every part of your car-
tyres, body, engine, hood, springs ,
brakes, chassis—in top notch con-
dition for a few shillings.
FREE BOOKLET.
Write Leggett Products Ptg. Ltd., Box
1154, G.P.0., Sydney, or Box 1 757, G.P.0.,
Melbourne, for invaluable booklet on car
maintenance, Free.
TV
ue
I\QQ«
0°
MOTOR PRODUCT/
INCLUDING
BULL DOC CRIP
Improved method-better than vulcanising.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
V,
m
SIM» NI2
./•o-VAhNisu u:
PAINT
m
mmu
SSu
tRs
Makes
the Finish
Last Longer
Keeps Colors
from Fading
INSIST ON SIMONIZ.
Sold by all Good Motor Houses, Service
Hardware Stores at 2/6 Small Cans; 5/-
In case vou cannot obtain locally, see
Stations and
Large Cans,
note below.
New cars appear only
to require ordinary care
to keep them spotless and
bright, yet the finish soon
becomes dulled and the new-
ness of appearance vanishes.
, Therefore the sooner you
' Simoniz your car —the better.
Every car needs Simoniz.
For in addition to providing
a luxuriant depth of lustre,
one Simoniz application
provides months
protection that makes the
finish last longer and keeps
colors from fading.
It saves time, energy and expense
in keeping cars looking clean and
bright, for all dust and dirt can be
wiped off a Simonized finish without
danger of marring or scratching —
and washing is seldom necessary.
If your car is dulled and worn looking
Simoniz Kleener will quickly
and easily remove all dirt,
scum, traffic accumulations, and
restore it to its original beauty
—then, apply Simoniz.
Buy a can of Simoniz and
S imoniz Kleener today from your
hardware or auto accessory
dealer.
ctyoforislsWise
SIMONIZ
M
A
D
E
I
N
A
U
S
T
R
A
L
I
A
d
ANOTHER WONDERFUL
SIMONIZ
PRODUCT —
SIMONIZ
PENETRATING
GRAPHITE
OIL
“LOOSENS THE TIGHTEST NUT.’'
Simoniz Penetrating Graphite Oil
instantly
DISSOLVES RUST,
LUBRICATES CAR SPRINGS,
STOPS CHASSIS AND BODY
SQUEAKS,
FREES GUMMED MOTOR VALVES,
LOOSENS ALL TIGHT NUTS
AND BOLTS.
Sold in handy Boz. can with long spout. Price 2/6.
IP YOU CANNOT OBTAIN SIMONIZ PRODUCTS
FROM YOUR USUAL DEALER, SEND POSTAL
NOTE TO
SOLD AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS,
MOTORITE EQUIPMENTS PTY., LTD.,
Carlton, Melbourne.
FREE SAMPLES KLEENER ON REQUEST.
Apply with a cloth


ď
Promptness—-The first essential of Assurance.
P. & C. take pride in acting quickly. Every claim has immediate
attention. This is only one of the many advantages that com-
mend P. &C. Assurance to the man on the land. Policies car-
ried on during times of stress —money set aside each year for loans to
members. P. &C. is linked up with the most influential Co-operative
bodies, and clients' interests are closely guarded. Here are plain
facts for commonsense men —P. & C. Assurance is the kind you need
—investigate the policies right away. Send for literature.
Chairman of Directors : Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director: H. Fell
_ PRODUCERS V CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD^
221-225 ELIZABETH STREET. SYDNEY. ngE
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
7/ie Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting’ Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
IT SELLS AT SIGHT.
THE NEW
PROBATE INSURANCE!
Under ordinary conditions £lOOO Probate Insurance costs
the proposer, aged 50 years, over a period of 10 years,
£425/8/4.
The NEW PROBATE policy covers the same
risk for 10 years for £l6O.
Write Pacific Underwriters,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
for full particulars.
<=?> . (V O'
\^s"
v
v
ou
*<*
* %
SMOKE-OH!
It is the jerry-builder who puts the bungle
into bungalows.
* *
“Investors dumped blocks of 10,000 to 20,000
shares into Wall-street for anything they would
bring.”— Cable.
A tragic instance of people doing their
blocks.
V *
“The book of Ruth by its perfect beauty has put
us for ever in debt to the Jew.” — Argus corres-
pondent.
Bill Mugge, who backed Phar Lap, points
out that it was the Song of Solomon that
put him in debt to the Jew.
¥ *
BUN 11 AKERS, BEWARE!
“That bunbaking can have dangerous as well as
beneficial results is the warning issued by Dr. E.
E. Free.” — Guardian.
Take heed to the scientist’s warning,
And don’t lie all day in the sun
Lest you find to your horror one morning
You’re a hot-cross and over-baked bun.
THE RUSE.
“Faith, Mrs. O’Hara, how d’ye till them twins apart?”
“Aw, ’tis aisy. I sticks me finger in Dinnis’s mouth, an’
if he bites I know it’s Moike.”
“Charged with abusive language, John Allen, one
of Blank and Co.’s time-payment collectors.”
So much for Blank and Co.’s vaunted
“easy terms.”
* ¥
“A submarine mountain in the Pacific has shifted
30ft. from its last-known position.”— Age.
On its way no doubt to a submarine
Mahomet.
* #
“Big Strike Moves.” — Sydney Pictorial.
It’s time it realised its unpopularity at
its old address.
* *
“Dairy-farmers - complain that there is no money
in milk, as the milk companies take all the profits.”
Consumers also have a grievance in con-
nection with the watering of the stock.
# *
WHERE ELECTIONS ELECTRIFY.
“In Jalapa, capital of the State of Vera Cruz,
130 voters were killed and several hundreds wounded
in connection with the municipal elections.” — Cable.
It is nothing, however, to what happened
in Cascara at the recent Castoroilia elec-
tions. Consider this from the Cascara
Guardian :
Monday.
The state of parties at the time of going to
press was as follows: —
United Brigands’ Party 37 (14 subsequently
killed, 18 wounded).
Piratical Party 18 (11 killed, 3 wounded, 4 in
gaol). •
Booze and Blither Alliance 11 (all dead).
Later.
The leader of the United Brigands’ Party has
seen the Governor-General and has been commissioned
to form a Government. Its first act will be to
execute the four survivors of the minority party.
INDIVIDUAL POLLING :
Woopico Woopico.
Brigadier-General lodine Juleppo (U.8.P.)
elected . . . . • • • • • • 51
Major-General Brasserio Hattinja (P.P.M.) 37
Killed ■ • 4:47
Wounded .. .. • • ■ • • • 2,721
Prisoners .. .. .. . • • ■ 3,4.->9
Informal .. .. •. • • • • 10,413
Total voters .. .. .. •• 17,118
Majority 14.
In this electorate, including, as it does, some of
the most fashionable residential suburbs of Cascara,
the election was quieter than elsewhere. The
retirement into their cellars of the suburbanites ex-
plains the large number of informal votes.
Stop Press : Prime Minister assassinated. Also
Governor-General. U.S. movie interests arranging
finance another election immediately.
Hamer.
CATASTROPHE.
“A new industry, that of clipping Persian cats
in order to use their fur in hatmaking, is suggested
for Australia.”
Ding-dong, bell!
Pussy’s far from well.
All her fur is in a hat
For another kind of cat.
* *
“He relapsed at the doctor’s gate and had to be
taken inside again for further treatment.” — Argus.
That’s what a patient gets for looking at
the bill before he’s fully convalescent.
* *
“Elephants come to town .’’—Melbourne Herald.
Passengers on the cable-trams caught the
merest glimpse of the big beasts as the lat-
ter caught up the trams and whizzed on to
the circus.
“There were 13 people crammed into the motor-
car.” — Police-court report.
Another proof that birds in a flivver flock
together.
* %■
“In our Cabinet meetings we have arrived at
few major decisions, so far.”— Priminister Scullin.
He might have added that the community
is also awaiting his Treasurer’s promised
miner decisions.
THE PEEVED ONE.
“Can I get anything, Mary?”
“Yes—get away.”
“Double-fronted Family Residence.”
—Melbourne Herald advt.
Doubtless occupied by a two-faced crowd.
* #
Round-table conferences are seldom all
se.ua re.
* *
THE PROHIBITION GRAZE.
“Girls wearing the new backless bathing costumes
are to be severely dealt with by Sydney beach
inspectors.”
A mad, mad world, my masters, this, alack!
Where front, too much of it, takes all alack.
And from the Sydney leaches now they hunt
Maidens whose backless bathing-suits affront.
V- *
Many men believe there is
an “1” of a mistake in the
term “lawful-wedded wife.”
* #
Get engaged to a modern
flapper, and if you don’t
add a seal to the contract
you will probably find that
it has to be an Arctic fox.
* *
“Twenty-five years ago
women scorned the use of
powder.” Yet they could
blow a man up just as effec-
tively then as now.
“Mr. W. J. Butler, a young farmer, has taught
his horse to sham being dead.” — Melb. Herald.
There has been no shamming about some
of the ones we’ve backed in our time.
“Plaintiff is a bootmaker. He was twice divorced,
but has b een married to his present wife for 37
years.”— Court report.
Anyhow he’s sticking to his last.
%■
HOW IT REALLY HAPPENED.
Historians make lamentable mistakes, but
we may be absolutely sure of one thing, viz.,
that Eve raised Cain. It is enough to say that
she was a woman. The fallacious story that
Cain and Abel were brothers may be traced
to the Palestine Bloodstain’s desire to use
the alliterative caption “Brother Against
Brother” in its report of the
most sensational family
squabble in history. Actually,
of course, they were merely
brothers in the Masonic sense,
both being members of Bodge
Eden. The Russian philoso-
pher Barmiski holds _ that
Wors. Bro. Abel’s elevation to
the Master’s chair began the
ill-feeling. But the - more
authoritative Yon Dudd con-
siders that their relationship
was by marriage.
“My brother Abel,” Mrs.
Cain was in the habit of say-
ing, “never comes home, when
dinner has gone cold, with a
tale of being detained in town
on business. My brother is
a hard-working man, who loves
his home and looks after his
vines, instead of getting their
leaves in his hair.” And she
would laugh bitterly. “I don’t
suppose he’s ever spoken to a
barmaid in his life.”
A tablet unearthed at Joppa
records the following as hav-
ing been uttered by Cain on
a memorable occasion :
Your brother is a dashed hypocrite ! How does it
happen that he always has plenty of eggs whilst
we And so few? The fowls are mine, remember.
How about the mysterious disappearance of my best
birds ?
Their hostility culminated when in the
very year that Abel bought an expensive
stud of Buff Orpingtons, and started to show
them, Cain’s entire exhibit in the poultry
section was rejected by the committee of
the Jerusalem Agricultural Show on the
ground of disease. Cain blamed Abel’s influ-
ence with the committee, and in his dis-
appointment was foolish enough to say that
he “would kill Abel’s chance of prizes next
year.” Shortly afterwards he took to drink,
and became a wanderer on the face of the
earth; in other words, a hawker. He was
forced to pay his wife permanent alimony,
she being shrewd enough not to proceed for
divorce despite his association with a jazz-
mad flapper scornfully mentioned, in the
language of the time, as “a daughter of the
children of men.”
That Mrs. Cain was a violent-tempered
woman is proved by the fact that the police
identified Cain whenever they wanted him
HONOR IS SATISFIED.
SANDY: “I’ve brought ma friend McDougal a wee
present.”
NURSE: “You might have known we don’t allow fever
patients to have whisky!”
SANDY : “Aye, I ken that—but it’s a kind thought,
anyhow.”
by a mark on his forehead. Von Dudd has
established beyond doubt that the mark was
made by liis wife when she hit him on the
head with a piece of bedroom china.
This is the first time Cain’s side of the case
has been given to the world in extenso, and
most married men will agree that there were
excuses for him.
H. M.
THE TORTURED LOVER.
I wisht I felt that orl wuz right;
That what she sez is true,
;That she went mad on me at sight
And loves me now with all ’er might.
Gripes, but I wisht I knew!
If on’y I could fall for it
1 wouldn’t feel so blue,
But I’ve a hunch she goes an’ says
The same to others, too.
I met her husband y ester dee.
’Ow do I know it’s true
She don’t love ’im as well as me?
Golly! I wisht I knew.
RIC.
POISE.
“Labor members are paying a tribute to Mr.
Theodore for the calm and unperturbed manner
in which he has taken over his work. The new
Treasurer has refused to be ruffled and has gone
quietly about his task with an untroubled demeanor.
His poise is admired.” — Labor Daily.
Investigations disclose that this spirit is
by no means confined to Federal Treasurers.
Interviewed on the subject the manager of
Spiff. Goodze and Co. pointed to an office-
boy who, unaware of our
scrutiny, was having a quiet
cigarette and read behind a
bale of samples. “See him,”
said the manager, his voice
trembling with enthusiasm.
“To my personal knowledge
he’s been there for the past
hour. Quite unperturbed,
he gets his money to-night.”
Musing admiringly on the
generous promptitude with
which Big Business rewards
its employees who attain the
desired poise, our represen-
tative passed on to the offices
of Mr. Mcßilder, the con-
tractor. On being shown
the reference to the Federal
Treasurer, Mr. Mcßilder
said with pride: “If it’s a
question of going quietly
about a task I* doubt if any-
one can give my beauties
p'oints. Five strikes in seven
weeks, and now they’re
all away at a stop-work
meeting called because some-
one says the painters’
brushes have 7.6 more
bristles apiece than the 1918
award permits. Ha! Ila!”
“At a rough estimate,” he
further informed our repre-
sentative, “30 per cent, of
them are away backing dead
’uns in a calm, unperturbed
manner at the ponies. Half
the remaining 70 per cent,
keep calmly telephoning, or
unperturbedly visiting, the
S.P. tobacconist up . the
street in order to find out
what won the last. Theodore is no doubt
all right in his way, but if he’s any more
unperturbed than these birds of mine, then
all I can say is he’s a blanky miracle.”
MAX F.
FASHION.
Summer, with the mer-
cury bubbling. Man in thick
serge suit and starched
collar emerges on street.
Face resembles boiled lob-
ster that has had grease
poured over it. Girl passes
in crepe de Chine, cut low
at the neck, and nothing
much else. Observes man,
and wave of compassion
sweeps over her. “Poor
devil!” she sighs. _ “Why
doesn’t someone kick him
into wearing sensible
clothes!”
Winter, with fierce rain-
storm blowing off Antarctic
ice. Girl in crepe de Chine
cut low at neck emerges shiv-
ering street beneath in-
adequate umbrella. Man
passes in thick serge suit.
Observes girl, and wave of
contempt sweeps over him.
“Silly little idiot,” he mutters. _ Why
doesn’t someone spank her into dressing her-
self properly?”
G. D. S.


f Perth i
i !
f//,
f
■ ppOINTMENT TO HIS HAJCSrr Till
X'HC
FINE ~
Mur
5
0^
y
ifii
‘MAS EXCLUSIVELY supplied to" the
& foGST&NI) CIU3S
JohirttewareSons L d
Distillers PERTHiScofland)* LONDON
PRODUCE OF SCOTLAND-
Founder the supervision of the commonwealth W sto,s


THIS
INEXPENSIVE
LUBRICATING
EQUIPMENT'PAYS
ENCPMCUS BPCEITS
3 \
/ /
4
Alemite offers you an opportunity to elim-
inate wear and tear in the operation of your
farm machinery and equipment. In only a few hours you
can remove all old style grease cups and replace them
with the proper fittings. They are made in all sizes and
angles—even drive fittings to plug the old oil holes.
Every bearing on every machine may be equipped and
lubricated in the same efficient Alemite manner.
The cost of Alemite is small, indeed, indi-
vidual fittings being but a few pence each. And lubri-
cating is simple once you have made the change. Each
bearing receives its proper amount of fresh, clean lubri-
cant. No waste —no unnecessary friction and wear!
Alemite is now standard equipment in 80%
of all farm implements manufactured in the United
States today. Why not let this improved modern lubri-
cation system earn for you these added profits?
The Alemite (Push Type)
“Barrel-to-Bearing” System
How it works: Alemite provides a method
for positively and easily lubricating all your farm imple-
ments. It is simple, yet insures proper lubrication. No
grit nor dirt can possibly work into Alemite Lubricant.
At no time is it even exposed to the air.
1. The lubricant is first pumped from its original
drum into
2.. The handy, portable Alemite Filler Tank, which
holds 20 lbs. of lubricant. From this container, which
can be easily carried about the farm, lubricant is
pumped directly into
3. The Alemite Push Type Compressor. By means
of this gun you can easily develop tremendous pressure
which forces clean lubricant through
4. The Alemite Push Type fitting, into the bearing
—cleaning it as it is lubricated.
See your nearest dealer or write for particulars.
ALEMITE MANUFACTURING
CORPORATION
Division of Stewart-Warner
Chicago, U. S. A.
Full particulars from
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH
Resident Manager,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives:
Bennett & Wood, Ltd 284 Pitt St., Sydney
Motor Supplies, Ltd Brisbane
Atkins (W. A.), Ltd 894 Hay St., Perth
E. A. Machin & Co. Pty„ Ltd., 535 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
Cornell Limited, 122Pirie St., Box G.P.O. 496 E., Adelaide
For the Dominion of New Zealand;
Jas. J. Niven & Co., 152 Wakefield St.. Wellington, N. Z.
ALEMITE
High Pressure Lubrication ...
TECHNICAL BOOKS
FOR ALL TRADES
Price. Postage.
Farmers’ Handbook. New Edition, 1929. Published by Dept.
of Agriculture, N.S.W 10/6 Bd.
Model Making. Including Workshop Practice, Design and Con-
struction of Models. Yates 15/- Bd.
Painting and Decorating—Working Methods. Textbook for
Apprentice, Journeyman, Housepainter and Decorator 12/6 9d.
The Human Figure. J. Vanderpoil 20/- Bd.
Cost of Power Production by Internal-combustion Engines. Burls. 6/6 4d.
Operating Engineer’s Catechism of Steam Engineering. Gornston. 16/- 6d.
Producer Gas. J. Dowson 26/- 1/-
Gas and Oil Engines. Treatise on Design, Construction and
Working of Internal-combustion Engines. By H. Allen . . 16/- 1/-
Practical Up-to-date Plumbing. Clow 7/6 6d.
Reinforced Concrete Construction. Elementary Principles.
Andrews 10/- 6d.
Concrete for House, Farm and Estate. Ballard 10/- 6d.
Sewerage Works. F. C. Temple 7/6 4d.
Galvanising. Theoretical and Practical Treatise. H. Bablik 16/- 9d.
Dynamos and Motors. Practical Testing. By C. Smith 10/- 6d.
Concrete Roads. Their Construction 6/6 6d.
House Painting. Decorating, Sign-writing, Gilding, etc. By
Ellwt 3/6 4d.
Cellulose Lacquers. Practical Handbook on their Manufacture.
Smith 9 /“ B <j-
Dyeing Silk. Mixed Silk Fabrics and Artificial Silks. Ganswindt 16/- 7d.
Dyeing of Cotton Fabrics. Handbook for the Dyer and Student.
Beech ••• I®/" 9d -
Aerial Navigation and Meteorology. Comprehensive Treatise in
Simple Language. By Yancey 20/- 1/-
Ornamental Designs and Illustrations. For the use of Engravers,
Designers and Lovers of Art. Bergling 15/- 1/-
Engineer’s Year Book of Formulae, Rules, 1 ables, Data and
Memoranda for 1929. Kempe 36/- 1/8
Handbook of Building Construction. Data for Architects Design-
ing and Constructing Engineers and Contractors. Hool and
Johnson. In two vols 60/- 3/6
Aeroplanes, Seaplanes and Aero Engines. By Captain Sumner . . 30/- 1/2
Modern Wood-working Machinery. By S. Ransome 19/- 1/-
Preparatory Mathematics for the Building Trades. Bay and Doub 6/6 4d.
Reinforced Concrete. Concise Treatise. By Marsh 15/- 9d.
Audel’s Handy Book of Practical Electricity, with Wiring
Diagrams. Ready Reference for Professional Electricians and
all Electrical Workers • • • 20/- 1/-
Electric Control Gear and Industrial Electrification. By W. Wilson 30/- 1/3
Workshop Operations and Layouts for Economic Engineering
Production. Gates 10 /- 8d -
Motor Cycling. J. Wyatt 3/6 4d.
Electrical Equipment of the Motor Car. By Moreton and Hatch 21/- 1/-
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
TECHNICAL BOOKSHOP,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
KHEFTffITEP' ■ -
r.
553
(>
51
a
u
IDEAL
BOILERS
in kitchen or scullery, will provide all
the hot water needed for baths, etc.,
and assist the cooking stove.
50 gallons with 9 lbs. of coke
A Hot Bath for a Penny
Easily fixed—a size for every home.
Radiators can be attached for
\ warming rooms.
Write for booklet.
Paid for in fuel
savings alone —
324-330
Pitt St.,
Sydney.
JOHN-
Ltd
SON
Pt y
391-403
Bourke St.,
Melbourne.


Garages equipped with
TecalemiT
LUBRICATING APPARATUS
render the best service to Car Owners by
keeping cars “youthful” and' eliminating
the cause of 80 per cent, of repairs.
Particulars from
TECALEMIT SERVICE STATIONS:
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD. Hay Street, £ERTH
CORNELL, LTD. 122 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD. - Bateman Street, MELBOURNE
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD. Pitt Street, SYDNEY
MARTIN WILSON BROS., LTD., 299 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE
Factory Representative - - - - Mr. James Thornell, 312 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
TECALEMIT, LTD. Mitre House, Scrubbs Lane, LONDON, N.W.10
Too often' y in the process of surrounding oneself -with
beautiful things > one is forced to compromise. Desire
must find some common ground with means to
purchase. Fine glass is a happy exception to this rule.
The loveliest English hand=cut crystal money can buy
is not prohibitive in price: and
since the name STUART is
etched on every genuine piece,
personal taste can have full rein
without fear ol mistake or
reproach of extravagance.
English. HancEMade Crystal
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass is sold
DRESS the little ones in
* 80-Peep * Print for their j
romping hours, and you may }
relieve your mind of all anxieties !
regarding the welfare of their \
clothes. ‘Bo-Peep* Print I
is a real hard-wearing ( |
material, absolutely colour-fast, |
inexpensive, and laundry-proof. {
* Bo~Peep ’ Print is 38 inches wide, and is j
obtainable in many styles, designs and colourings. i
Sold by leading Drapers and Stores.
Produced be the makers of “ Tricoline” —the equal to silk•
(fio-peep print
' Loo ts° d -~ for Childrens Wear 1
If anq difficulty in obtaining, write |
H. G. Randell, Empire Chambers, 93 York Street, Sydney. |
A
TWgwcgT
FABRIC.
Pen snd Picture
The
STATE
THEATESSY
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Shadow Shows
Having presumably read “The Three .Mus-
keteers,” “The Man in the Iron Mask and
the memoirs of D’Artagnan, Richelieu and
de Rochefort, United Artists fashioned “The
Iron Mask” and made an interesting picture
despite the enthusiastic over-acting of Doug-
las Fairbanks. * The main thread of story
that emerges from the originals is followed
closely enough, and most of the atmosphere
is excellent. It begins full of omen for dis-
aster. Fairbanks, as D’Artagnan, stands forth
MARGUERITE
MOTTE in “The Iron Mash."
from his boon
comp anions
and relieves
himself of a
wholly un-
necessary pro-
logue with a
strong U.S.A.
accent. A little
later the “One
for all, and all
for one”
slogan of the
romantic quar-
tette is lustily
sung in Eng-
lish to a; rollick-
ing air, and
again, usher-
ing in the “20
years after”
second part,
F a i r b anks
speaks another
piece. Apart
from these
i m p o sitions,
there is plenty
of entertainment qualities in the picture—
horses and swords, dazzling costumes, street
brawls and so on. The supporting cast ’is
strong. Ulrich Haupt is sound as Roche-
fort, and Nigel de Brulier makes a memor-
able Richelieu. Woman hasn’t much of a
place in the picture, though the producers
have done their best for her by lingering in
a Peeping Tom mood about the birth-bed of
the queen. For anyone who fancies the Fair-
banks brand of athletic display, the movie
should provide the usual excitement. His
best effort is to throw his sword, with which
he i.s fighting a hard-pressed battle, through
the ribs of another enemy on a balcony
above and get it back in time to run it
through his opponent on the ground floor.
If a view, of Sydney Harbor which has
been appearing at the Prince Edward gets
on to the screen south of the border, those
who are alleged to froth at the mouth when-
ever the port is mentioned should find it
easy to unfroth painlessly. Present Show-
man had thought it impossible for anyone
to make a botch of photographing the harbor ;
but this particular job has to be admitted a
very pale representation, not improved by a
fishy green color scheme. An effort at “imagi-
native photography,” picturing the bridge as
it will look when completed, is if anything
weaker than the rest. A small warboat or
two gathered into the foreground make the
bridge look as ridiculously small as a match-
box. Someone has asked in The Bulletin
why better scenics of Australia are not
shown on the screens. The answer is
obviously not a lack of topic, whatever else
it may be.
The rising generation of Australians must
know Clarke and McCulloch better than
they know Gus Bluett and Cecil Ivelleway,
if they know the latter gentleman at all.
Since the advent of the talkies, Clarke and
McCulloch have made their appearance week
after week in a succession of slapstick items.
There is nothing particularly new about
their business—turns as good can be seen
at the local vaudeville halls daily—but they
appear to be warmly appreciated. Their
latest effort is “The Honor System” (Fox),
mildly amusing and much like its predeces-
sors. The pair are arrested for the robbery
of a pearl necklace, and the kind-hearted
inspector offers to let them go if the guilty
one will place the stolen article on the table
when the inspector puts the light out. There
is a blackout, and when the lights go up the
crooks have vanished, and the trusting in-
spector is revealed without his trousers.
“The Bridge of San Luis Rey”
is an interesting example of how the screen
presents the framework of a story but fails
to give the flesh, blood, heart, . soul and
entrails thereof. It is a good picture, as a
picture. In fact, it is hard to see liow it
could be made much better. There is the
tempestuous La Perichole (Lily Damita),
who rises to be mistress to his Excellency
the Viceroy, and ends by being married to
the small-pox; Manuel, the letter-writer
thankfully accepting the scraps from her dish
of love; Pepita, the sedate stadium for a
contest between God and the Devil; the
Maro.uesa, suffering from an Electra com-
plex ; and the rest of them. All this is
admirably done, and makes the picture worth
surveying. But the book, by Thornton Wil-
der, is a reflection of the mournful, smiling
scepticism of a writer for whom the con-
solatory explanations of religion are an
illusion, and the one reality is the caprici-
ousness of fate. The film is simply a brilli-
antly illustrated tract, such as any church-
mission society could put its name to.
Brother Juniper, who sees the five people,
precipitated into the flood when the bridge
breaks at Lima, is simply the preacher ready
to seize on any incident as a text for an
orthodox sermon. He goes up into the pul-
pit and traces the histories of all the vic-
tims, proving, to everybody’s satisfaction a
beneficent purpose in the tragedy. In the
book he hopes to do so, but gets sadly
muddled in the process.
The Palette
Douglas Dundas, who won a Society of
Artists scholarship, has returned from Europe
with several dozen canvases, which he has
hung in the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney.
Where- Dundas combines an interesting topic
with his generally good craftsmanship, as in
“Siesta Time,” the result is worth while; but
he tends to see less interesting things, especi-
ally in foregrounds. All his backgrounds are
much more engaging and his color is mostly
good.
“F.S.” : The Parisian attitude towards art
is popularly supposed to be liberal to the
point of shamelessness, but Colin Colalian
lias evidence to the contrary. It is a letter
from one of the leading societies regretting
its inability “d’exposer” a nude he submitted
for exhibition—and the rejection wasn’t on
artistic grounds, either. The same picture
was exhibited in Melbourne without eliciting
a protest from even the War Cry.
Feeling that prospective buyers would be
convenienced by seeing his paintings in their
natural surroundings, so to speak, Georg
Benson borrowed the Toorak home of J. F.
Browning for the purposes of liis latest show.
There is sincerity in all of Benson’s work,
and it is most prominent in “At Lome” and
“Low Tide,” two charming oils suffused witi
a delicate grey light. Of the water-color!-
“The Last of the Snow,” a study of the
Buffalo range emerging from its winter pelt,
particularly arrests the eye.
AUSTRALIAN ART ASSOCIATION.
H. B. Harrison has, in this paper’s
opinion, the best landscapes in the latest
eruption of the three A’s at the Athenaeum.
Melbourne. No. 42, “Flinders Headland,
is a definite but sensitive thing. Then comes
A. E. Newbury, perhaps, with one of those
cool gumscapes which he so astutely peoples
with vital-looking livestock, human or other-
wise. After which, Miss A. M. E. Bale
demands attention for having tackled a ter-
rific subject in No. SS. It doesn’t quite
come off—the riddle of planes seen against
the light of a spring morning—but it is a
fine attempt.
Herbert’s “From Glen Waverley” is the
most delicate thing he has done of late, and
there is a dramatic quality about “The
Dome” of A. Colquhoun. Also Clewin H'ar-
court paints the Chapel-street bridge with
some strong accents placed approximately in
the right spots, and Daryl Lindsay’s panel
has some passages of glowing water-color
paint. (Incidentally, on this and other
recent work Daryl was commissioned to do
a dozen illustrations for Vance Palmer’s
“Men Are Human,” the prize-winner in Tiie
Bulletin’s Novel Competition which is to
be next published as a Bulletin serial.)
Norman Mac George’s big oil, “Valley Pas
tures,” is plausible as to the earthly part,
but the sky has writ large across it “No
Thoroughfare for Aeroplanes.” Few of the
others landscapes amount to much. Most
of them try sitting simultaneously on the
decorative and realistic stools, and hit the
ground in between.
W. B. Mclnnes’s portrait of William
Irvine is set between two nudes. This is
possibly what makes the C.J. look as if
touched by the rosy finger of the setting sun.
There is the same hot feeling about the
head of the charming flapper seen in No.
16—she of the half-open eager mouth. It
suggests not so much the glow of health as
a temperature of 104° in the clinical bulb.
Otherwise both faces are admirably caught
in character. Wheeler’s efforts, both in the
figure and landscape, are in draughtsman-
ship extraordinarily clever but are tonally
flabby. His “Peggy” lacks nothing but the
illusion of life and space. In the realm of
fantasy Blamire Young has definitely lost
his way, just at the moment when, judg-
ing by No. 99, M. J. MacNally, of N.S.W.,
has accepted him as a guide.
Will Dyson has a monopoly of the etch-
ing side. His witty satires ride on a biting,
fluid line. In one, a lady novelist contem-
plates her nude figure in the glass, remark-
ing : “Alas, is there nothing more to take
off!”
The Inky Way
There is an extraordinary mass of good
stuff in the Christmas Bulletin : the pub-
lishers say that nothing like it has before
been issued in Australia for the money,
and it seems true. All the writers whose
work is looked for in The Bulletin have
done something extra for the annual. From
Roderic Quinn and Vance Palmer, whose
verse and story are on the first typed page,
you meet familiar names all the way till you
pull up with Steele Rudd on the last page. In
all there are two dozen complete stories,
verse by 31 Australian and Maoriland
writers, 50 drawings, including a front page
by Leason and a handsome full-page decora-
tion by Jardine, and a fine colored supple-
ment —one of Minns’s handsome abos.
“Lao-dali”: Melbourne Herald manage-
ment is taking seriously to the ether. It
has just completed a new transmitting sta-
tion at Ashburton, with a studio in Flinders-
street; the studio is connected to city places
of amusement by 78 permanent wires.
Hector and Otto Holst, two pioneers of
Australian wireless, executed the technical
side of the installation, which is claimed to
be the only one on the continent to solve
the problem of 100 p.c. modulation on the
carrier wave. That is, if you pick up the
carrier wave you are in perfect tune with
the transmission.
“M. Turlutu” (London) : Jack Lindsay’s
beard —it is black, flowing and unrestrained
beneath the shadow of a vast and sombre hat
—is becoming a well-known scenic feature
on the London slopes of Parnassus. His
translations and original work have attracted
attention from highbrows in Britain and
America, and the hand-set publications of
the Fanfrolico Press are acquiring a vogue
amongst collectors. Edmund Gosse, shortly
before his death, conferred his literary bene-
diction on Norman’s brilliant son. Jack’s
brother Phil blew in recently with a suit-
case of MS. But it is doubtful whether the
old city is sufficiently supple in the joints to
bear the strain of these two Lindsays at once


4»
u
\\
'T
>
rfYi
r
\
i - ;
- •, •■.;<;
s :, VV
Tests lo I rr|
Before tou Bull
TYRE-BUYING is simple if you keep these few things in
mind :
First — a car tyre has just two main parts: tread and carcass.
Second—there are concrete reasons why Goodyear Tyres
are superior in both these two parts.
Third—these reasons can be demonstrated and proved.
1 Press your hand down on the Goodyear All-Weather j
Tread. Feel the grip of the deep-cut sharp-edged blocks,
placed in the centre of the tread, where they belong.
That shows why the Goodyear Tread imprints its safe and j
slipless pattern on the road, and why it has superior traction.
2 Ask your Goodyear Dealer to show you on his cord-testing
machine the greater stretch—up to 60% in Goodyear
Supertwist Cord over ordinary cord.
This extra stretch gives the Goodyear Supertwist carcass
its unmatched vitality, enabling it to withstand road-shocks
and continuous flexing without premature failure.
These advantages in Goodyear Tyres pay big dividends in
high mileage and low cost. Proof of their validity and that
they are popularly understood is found in the fact that
MORE PEOPLE, THE WORLD OVER, RIDE ON
GOODYEAR TYRES THAN ON ANY OTHER KIND.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic P.isk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
Delightful!
Cool!
&
m
mm
03 iiwn khds3«|]
aaovi
a®n
iSjgsynvHisnyl
Refreshing
There’s cheering arid quenching
satisfaction in every bottle of
RB
GENUINE LAGER.
and
DA
DINNER ALE.
m
mm
mm
mm
a
?' a»
When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike,
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
HOTEL
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel,” Sydney.
and
Breakfast
Tariff
if desired
SPORTIONG
NOTIONS
Lineage added to her Oaks victory by cap-
turing the Armadale Handicap at Caulfield.
I). D. D. Mackinnon’s filly was backed from
5 to 2 down to 6 to 4, a fact primarily due
to Duncan being in the saddle, for Lineage
met Cimbrian on only 41b. better terms than
in the Williamstown Cup. Scanlon was on
Lineage in the Odks, while A. Elliott rode
her when she lost to Cimbrian by half a
neck. Cimbrian looked sure of success at
the distance on Saturday, but Duncan dis-
played immense energy and forced his mount
past Heroic’s half-brother. Etlielton (25
to 1) then, swept down on the leaders, and
Duncan had to keep raining blows on Line-
age to score by half a length from the Adel-
aide mare. Cimbrian was less than a length
farther off, just in advance of Balmerino,
who, second‘favorite though he was, carrie'd
little stable money. Dave Price advised
John Edmond to speculate only a few pounds
for the jockey, as Balmerino’s track work
did not suggest that he had recovered any-
thing like his form of 12 months ago.
Kakwool’s running in the Ivasouka Hurdle
led to an official investigation, which did
not reach finality until Bert Thompson, the
jockey, had appropriated the Tara Steeple-
chase. on Merauki. Backers of Rakwool
made bitter comments on the manner in
which Rakwool had been handled. The
inquiry disclosed that Thompson had ridden
in accordance witli the trainer’s instructions,
and no action was taken. An old turf adage
says: “Obey orders and break owners.’’
Merauki opened favorite for the Steeple but
Under the Whip
Though the weather was agreeable, the
crowd at Randwiek on Saturday was very
much below the average. It was large
enough, however, to raise vigorous hooting
when Bonnie Marjorie (16 to 1) came in
ahead of little Ila Tait (20 to 1), imported
Ruffler (33 to 1) and 15 others in the Flying
Handicap. The daughter of Wedge—Pearly,
though very consistent at the spring meet-
ings, had run yery badly in her last start at
Canterbury Park, ■ and punters decided over-
liastily that she had lost her form. At
Canterbury Park she was ridden by Darby
Munro, whereas Brown had the mount at
Randwiek. The change of jockeys probably
made a difference; the change of courses cer-
tainly did. There are too many short turns
at Canterbury Park for horses that like the
long stretches of Randwiek, where Bonnie
Marjorie has now won three good races.
Jimmy Munro, Darby’s elder brother, was
very successful on Saturday ; he rode Fron-
tier (7 to 2) and Uplands (4 to 1), winners
of the first and second divisions of the
Woollahra Stakes, a race for two-year-pl'ds,
and The Banker (6 t 0.4), who cleared away
with the November Handicap. Otway Falk-
iner now owns The Banker, whosy. last
success was in the V.R.C. Handicap three
years ago. Munro took him to the front and
slowed down the field, tactics which answered
admirably. As in the Melbourne Cup, first,
second and third (Pa'patu and Patadawn)
were bred in Maoriland.
Eton Blue (7 to 2), a grey Sarchedon geld-
ing that battles out a finish better than most
of the tribe, took the Three-year-old Handi-
cap from Dalston (3 to 1) -and the handsome
Magnifier, who’was unbacked by the stable.
Magnifier is the makings of a first-class-
horse. Gesto (3 to 1) proved a. good thing
for the Higliweight Handicap ; Sion (6 to 1),
the only one ■ that might have given him
any trouble, dwelt at the barrier. Gesto
is another Maorjlarfd-bml• one, and Eton
Blue’s dam. Torquay, is also from the other
side of the Tasman.
*■■***
For Warwick Farm on Saturday:—
Varroville Handicap : Cleave ; next, Golden
Voice.
Ilomebush Handicap: Patadawn; next,
Franciscan.
Farm Stakes : Starlike f next, Adrian.
Macquarie Grove Handicap: C6ol Dan';
next, Energique.
GOLF ITEM—“TWO UP AND ONE TO PLAY.”
was supplanted by Cobbon. from Percy Pad-
field’s stable. Padfield came into the limelight
some years ago by landing a Grand National
with Sir Prim. Jumpers seldom belie his con-
fidence, but Cobbon proved an exception,
never being.near the front. In vanquishing
Night Lark by a neck Merauki took 2sec.
off the course record for “about two miles,”
which Night Lark established a few weeks
ago.
Harry Telford who has turned Phar Lap
out for a spell in Sol Green’s paddocks
at Bacchus Marsh, and is remaining in
Melbourne for the time being, picked up
a £5OO juvenile stake for “F. Smithden”
with Reasonable. Sixteen started, and 6to
1 the field was the concluding cry of the
ringmen. Reasonable figured at 10 to 1.
After a ding-dong tussle, he got home by a
short neck from Carol'King (equal favorite
.with Val Rose),, while Girouette was a
close third.
Exasperating luck* attended the effort of
J. M. Cummings to-pull off a double. He
ran second in the Armadale Handicap with
Ethelton, and saw Opera Queen surrender
to Gold Cup (8 to 1) in the Ormond Stakes.
Much money went west over Opera Queen,
who was a firm favorite throughout the
betting. Gold Cup is owned by W. S.
McDermott, proprietor of a Melbourne
weekly. McDermott has a big interest in
Aspendale Park racecourse, which will close
down in' two years’* time under the Act to
reduce Victorian racing.
Treat (imp.), who won-so unexpectedly
on Melbourne Cup day, let his numerous
backers down heavily in the Rosstown Plate,
which fell to. Doradus (7 to 1). ridden by
the all-conquering Duncan. Minor places
went to Bonny (finishing with lightning-
speed) and Toussaint.
* * * *
For Epsom on Saturday:—
Plate: Lady Beth ; next, Strogoff.
Handicap: Cumbrian ; next, Balmerino.
* * * *
The unhappy death of Charles Leslie
MacDonald in Melbourne, at 73. removes one
who was a prominent turf man for half a
century. He began racing under the wing
of his brother-in-law, J. E. Savill, of South
Aus., who owned The Assyrian, winner of
the 1882 Melbourne Cup. Later he took
charge of the late W. R. Wilson’s St. Albans
stud and stables near Geelong, and there
handled many of Australia’s finest horses.
On the disposal of these properties lie pur-
chased Revenue and the mighty Wakeful;
with Revenue he won the Cup of 1901.
Wakeful w ; as great at any distance, and on
retiring from racing she threw her owner
two good ones in Bluirgour and Night Watch.
Night Watch won the Melbourne Cup of the
Armistice year.
“Gumblegubbin”: Thrift week and the
good advice to put by something regularly
materialised to me in a couple who sat in the
Leger stand at Rand wick. The woman was
well versed in the lore of the turf.
She was candid too. “We never miss
a meeting,” she said, during an interval,
while her husband was away “putting some-
thing on.” “We put by what we can every
week, and we have a good day with it here;
Sometimes we win—we Won five pounds
last week, but our luck’s right out to-day.
We’ve lost everything.” Her husband was
earning the basic wage; but they had no
home of their own, no furniture; they lived
in a furnished room, their lives empty except
for the excitement and the hope eternal they
found on the racecourse. “If they, raise the
basic wage,” she concluded thoughtfully,
“we’ll be able to put by a bit more.”
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Pat Redmond, despite his huge weight
(17st. 21b.), failed miserably to wrest the
Australian heavyweight title from George
Thompson, of Newcastle (13st. ‘2lb.), at
Sydney Stadium; lie was knocked out in
tlie 12th round. Patrick was as slow as a
tortoise with stringhalt. Thompson hit him
with punches of every description; and only
on rare occasions did Redmond trouble the
victor. In the concluding round a right swing
followed by a left hook caught Pat flush on
the jaw, and the enormous fellow crashed
face downwards, dead to the world.
* * * *
Young Llew Edwards (Bst. llflb.) climbed
another rung of the ladder to boxing fame
by giving Archie Hughes (9st. 21b.) an
artistic hiding in Melbourne. Archibald, a
Sydney battler with mai’ks of his profession
written large on his dial, proved a tough
opponent, but Llew provided a polished dis-
play, his slipping of a punch being remini-
scent of Spargo at his best. He is a cham-
pion in tin* making.
The Ins and Outs
The rain which has followed Gilligan’s
Englishmen across the Continent marred the
opening stages of their match with Vic-
toria. The latter were elated at dismissing
the visitors for 238 (Gilligan 53), Don
Blackie (5-32) and Ironmonger (3-81) doing
the damage. However, Barratt and Nicholis
made short work of Woodfull, Ponsford and
Co., Jack Ryder’s 50 being easily the best
performance in a total of 167. The burly
Barratt made the ball do a lot on the tricky
wicket, and ended with 5 for 45. England
had lost 7 for 97 on Monday afternoon,
Blackie collecting five wickets cheaply.
* * * *
“Extra Cover” : If he keeps up the form
lie showed in the second innings of the match
against South Australia, G. F. Earle of
Zummerset, whence comes J. C. White,
should give Australian and M.L. cricket
followers a taste of the long ago. He was
run out in Adelaide for 43, but marked the
occasion by walloping the redoubtable Clarrie
GHmmett for 6,4, 6, 0 in one over. Earle is
a Harrovian, and was captain in 1910. A
mighty smiter of the Bomior rather than the
Jack Lyons type, he is a first-class field,
especially at mid-off.
* * * . *
“Shrewsbury” : Since Jardinfe’s melancholy
presence first imposed itself on Australia,
many cricket clubs have adopted the futuris-
tic color scheme which marked his favorite
Harlequin cap. The very latest is Gordon,
which Macartney honors with his member-
ship, and which is also enlivened by the
sprightly presence of Charles Kelleway. The
new Gordon cap and colors are red, white
and green, and herein may be the seeds of
trouble. Not only are these the colors of
tlie land from which we import most of our
fruit and vegetable entrepreneurs, but of an
institution of much more importance to
cricket lovers, the famous English Free
Foresters, a club founded 80 years ago. Mus-
solini may not mind the filching of the
Italian colors. The F.F. are much more
touchy.
* * * *
“Trent Bridge”: In a letter to the Times,
Watson Bain pleads with the lords of cricket
to forego the employment of professionals
“against teams of amateurs from so much
smaller countries in a cricket sense as Aus-
tralia, South Africa and the West Indies,”
on the ground that it is not fair. Putting
S.A. and the Indies on one side, the refer-
ence to the “amateurs” of Australia fills the
casual reader with justifiable suspicion.
Either Mr. Bain is the most unsophisticated
of cricket enthusiasts or he is a sardonic old
dog with an insatiable appetite for leg-
pulling.
(Continued on page 41.)
“Hotliam”: In spite of the huge sums it
handles, the Victorian Football League is
always pleading poverty. At the meeting of
the Australian Football Council which was
arranging for the inter-State carnival in
Adelaide next year, the League begged the
council to let it off some, at least, of the
levy which finds the funds for the big jam-
boree. States are assessed on their standing,
and the Victorians have to pay £5OO. This is
nd good to Gundy-on-Yarra, and unless the
amount is reduced the Victorians threaten
to boycott the carnival.
* =1: * *
The Kangaroos had two tough matches in
the North .of England last week, winning
from a comparative unknown in Bradford
Northern by 26-17, and drawing with St.
Helens. 18 all, after leading 18-5 at half-
time. The tourists have now a heavy casualty
list, but recent match results suggest the
home forward divisions are mastering their
Australian opposite numbers, with the result
that the Australian superiority in the backs
is being nullified.
*
“Evrcton”: The Australian Rugby League
team has come up against some curious
experiences during its tour of the North of
England manufacturing towns. Consider the
English manager’s comment on the second
representative match: “If England had
played football we would not have won. We
had to beat you in order to keep the ‘ashes,’
and could only win by spoiling your game.”
What an epitome of the bright lexicon of
professional football!
NOBBLED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Unregistered racing was a business, not a sport.
No owner-trainer would feed a horse for six months
md then run him straight when he could only get
;ven money. : A jockey sometimes won when the
owner did not want him to. This had happened to
witness.’’-- Evidence before the Brisbane racing
inquiry.
Dead, was he? Well, I reckoned he was
’ dead.
‘‘Paste this inside your cap, my boy, I said.
“You mustn’t let him run into a place.
However hard you have to pull his head.
“He’s up the lane,” I said. “Make no mis-
take.
Don’t let him show in front, for Heaven’s
sake! -
Get mo?” “You’ll never see him there,
he grinned,
“Never —.unless the flaming reins should
break.”
Stiffened the horse? Well, yes, I thought
I had,
Only to find —it makes a fellow mad —
That somebody had made him stiffer still,
That thankless, double-dealing, venal lad!
A bookmaker, of course. I’d give him short
Shrift, if I could, whose scheming, swindling
sort
Have made a sordid business of what
Might otherwise have stayed a joyous sport.
He won—by lengths. Too right, ’twas
mighty tough.
He won—hard-held, you say? Aw, stow
your guff!
Take it from me, the blighter only won
Because he wasn’t held half hard, enough.
Sanguine is he who thinks, by training gees
For Kedron Park, to earn his bread and
cheese.
Say, what the dickens can an owner do
When books and jocks descend to ramps
like these?
N.s.w.
IFORD.


MfIUUMDON
Genuine
Old-Time
CHRISTMAS!
“Xmas Goodwill never changes
yy
HZ I.—ENGLISH CHINA TEA
SETS, 21 piece. The very latest de-
signs and shapes, including border pat-
terns and floral decorations are avail-
25/-
PRICE, per set
£
HZ S.—KIDDIES’ SETS. Kiddies’
fancy cups, saucers, plate, mug and
bowl. A complete Christmas gift for
boys or girls. Assorted designs.
PRICE, per set .... 3/11
Heavy baby plates. Not illustrated.
’’RICE, each 2/- &. 2/6
HZ 9.— PYREX GIFT SETS. 9-piece
comprising the new Square shape cas-
serole and pudding dish, also tart plate
and 6 custard cups. a gift every
housewife will appreciate. OQ /(i
PRICE, complete AU / U
HZ 2.—CUT GLASS GOBLET SET,
with popular Queen Anne Goblets. Neat
panel and border cuttings. 7 piece set
as illustrated Ofl /
PRICE . &\J/
Also full crystal heavy cuttings.
’■RICE 45/- & 55/-
HZ 6.—DOULTON FRUIT SETS.
With new shape fruit saucers for berry
fruit. In popular colours. 7 piece.
Amazing value.
PRICE, per set 16/9 8C 18/6
Others, not Doulton,.
PRICE, per set ... 5/9. 7/6. 10/6. 12/6
HX 10.— ENGLISH HAND CUT
VASES, very heavy cuttings in spark-
ling crystal.
Sizes 6 7 9 10 12
PRICES 9/6 14/6 16/6 22/6 25/-
Rose Bowls with magic centres cut
crystal. PRICES 19/6, 25/-, 29/6, 35/-
Our XMAS Catalog
Sent Post Free on
Request.
POST YOUR ORDERS
NOW—TO BOX 68CC
G.P.0., SYDNEY.
d
“CORNSTALK”
ICE CHEST,
SIZE “B.”
TWO SHELVES,
ENAMEL LINED,
£5/18/6
Cornstalk Ice
Chests have spec-
ially constructed
ice chamber that
conserves the sup-
ply and keeps the
ice bill to the min-
imum. It has a
lining of porcelain
enamel. Has woven
wire shelves, which
are easily removed
for cleaning. Has
patent door lock
that keeps the door shut tight when closed.
Has patent side lever action. Has patent drip-
pipe which is easily removed for cleaning;
and has easy-running castors for removing
Ice Chest from one place to another. Height
3#in„ width 22in., depth 16in, fC/18/C
PRICE, enamel lined 10/10/O
THE “ACME” WRINGER
The “Acme” Wringer has strong steel frame,
with reversible clamps to fit on to table or
tubs. Also reversible water board, with plug
attachment. This is an extra high-grade
wringer, with good quality rubber rollers,
which are guaranteed to give every satisfac-
tion, with a wheel pressure relief screw on
top. Give her one for Xmas.
Sizes
12in.
14in.
16in
39/6 41/6 47/6
MOTOR CARS
Life-like copies of standard model.
Just what will please children.
Pedal action, complete with steer-
ing wheel. Very strongly built to
stand severe usage of the average
school boy.
Sizes 12 3 4
PRICES .. 35/- 55/6 73/6 105/-
DINKIES
These 3-wheel Dinkies have front
wheel pedal. Wooden seat, frames
are solid steel. Has rubber-tyred
wire wheels. Obtainable in 4 sizes.
Sizes 12 3 4
PRICES .. 12/6 17/11 21/6 24/6
TRICYCLES
This toy is very popular with both
girls and boys, and is rubber-
tyred. Strongly constructed of
steel, with leather saddles, which
are adjustable.
Sizes— 12 3
PRICES .. 26/6 29/6 34/6
NOCK & KIRBY LTD.
Sydney's Speciality Hardware Store ,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. Box 68CC, G.P.O.
s to
and 'do" n
.
\\
m ■
the
Viewing one of
famous geysers at Rot-
orua, the home of the
most remarkable ther-
mal activity in the world.
No Day
Like
Another
Come here for your
finest Summer
In New Zealand each day, if you choose, will
provide new sights and new activities. Not a
moment of monotony. Complete change—the
kind that makes a real holiday.
There’s the famous thermal wonderland of
Rotorua. There are the peaks and glaciers of
the Southern Alps; unforgettable, inspiring,
tremendous spectacles.
Strange sights, new places, are never ending.
Here you will find your favourite sport at its
best. And a dozen other things you’ve always
wanted, but never had a chance to try .. . fish-
ing, hunting, swimming, tramping, touring or
camping.
It’s this wonderful range of outdoor activity and
the endless change that will make your New
Zealand holiday the finest you’ve ever had.
You’ll be refreshed, revitalized, fit and ready for
another year of strenuous activity. . . Plan
now for your finest holiday !
7fett}jfea&*u£
Full details and information may be obtained from the following:
MELBOURNE: - Mr. H. J. Manson, Dominion Chambers, 59 William St.
SYDNEY :-Mr. W. R. Blow, London Bank Chambers, 20 Martin Place.
BRISBANEMr. T. E. Dewar, King House, Queen Street.
ADELAIDE:—Mr. Victor H. Ryan, Director of S. Australia Tourist Bureau
PERTH:—Mr. A. S. McClintock, Queen’s Buildings, 285 Murray Street
And the offices of Messrs. Thos. Cook & Son & The Union Steamship Co.
THERMAL MARVELS
Rotorua
LAKES AND FIORDS
Taupo '
Manapouri
Waikaremoana
Milford Sound
Dusky Sound
MOUNTAIN GRANDEUR
Mount Cook
Mount Egmont
Tasman Glacier
Franz Joseph Glacier
Tongariro Park
TOURING, CAMPING
GOLF, SWIMMING,
SAILING, FISHING,
SHOOTING
Everywhere.
11
PUT
YOURSELF
HERE


ď
V
a „_
c ,V>n‘' C l v>«
YOU JBAITBUY
As » l
6'' I v.m »'*,« •!&.
\t» d A
Luve
,r eT s >
,u fully inflate the average motor-
tvre in one minute.
& the \
RENRirr
QUADRUPLE
HAND PUMP
Price, 45/-
V
(With Gauge,
5/- extra.)
If unable to obtain,
write to our Factory
Representative;
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Mel-
bourne, Australia.
21/-
POST FREE.
“CHARMAINE”
Imported Sandal two
designs. Champagne with
red underlay, blue with
grey, Havana brown with
and all blonde . . 217-
White nubuck 23/6
1.356
Shoe Stores Gtd.
MAIL ORDERS 135 KING STREET
GERT ">bURE OFF YOUR GAME,
Bert.”
BertTltb My racket - suffering
FROM NERVES,! THINK?
Gt&RT • “Nerves? 1 P
£)ERT fVES. Highly strunq.Ha-h*!
of achievement such as nobody lias ever
taken up before. This is Owen-Smith, the
S’Afrioan, who has been selected as a Rhodes
scholar. To few batsmen is it given to score
a century iu a Test match after leaving a
university; Owen-Smith has accomplished it
before going to one.
The Watermen
Mosman R. C. easily retained the N.S.W.
champion fours at North Shore regatta on
the Lane Cove River, from Sydney and
Haberfield. Sydney rowed a great race,
catching and passing Mosman at the three-
quarter distance.. H. L. Callaghan’s deter-
mined challenge near the finish was too
insistent, and Sydney finally went down by
three-quarters of a length. Ilaberfield,
Leichhardt and Glebe finished well back.
Time for the 2 miles was llmin. 11 2-ssec. •
i\t * H* H*
a. H. Hill, who has been appointed
starter for the King’s Cup race, at Mannurn,
has frequently figured in the same capacity
in previous inter-State races rowed in S.A.
He has been one of the heads of rowing
in the State for years, and figured promi-
nently iu St. Peter’s College and University
crews some years ago. His particular bent
is the coaching of the St. Peter’s oarsmen,
many of whom have found their way into
the inter-State eights. An ex-A.I.F. man. he
commands a C.MJF. regimlent, and is a
keen shot.
* t- * =i=
“Blade”: Though Sydney rowing clubs
have paid more than one visit of recent
years to Melbourne, it is a long time since
the Cabbage Gardeners have sent a crew this
way, save for the King’s Cup events. Syd-
ney R. C. invited Albert Park to boat a
crew at the Port Jackson Club’s regatta on
Nov. 23, but the Victorians have excused
themselves on the plea that they had not
received sufficient notice. It is curious that
inter-State rowing should have so limited
a field. In other sports visits of all classes
of players are being constantly exchanged,
and there seems no particular reason why
rowing should be an exception.
* J|: . *
“Catch”: N.S.W. oarsmen are discussing
the prospects of sending an eight-oar crew
to Henley, in July, to compete in the Grand
Challenge. Whether the crew will be picked
from N.S.W. alone depends on circumstances.
Gilbert Hughes, a one-time hon. sec. of Syd-
ney R. C., will be in London shortly, and will
set about fixing matters up at that end.
Australia has had only three eights to repre-
sent it in English, rowing, the famous A.I.F.
first and second crew T s and the N.S.W. eight
stroked by Roger Fitzhardinge, which won
the Grand Challenge from Leander in 1912.
and was second to a London crew at the
Stockholm Olympiad the same year. If the
visit is arranged, every effort should be
made to send Pearce over to try for the
Diamond Sculls, which, on paper, would be
a certainty for the Australian champion.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: Though the N.S.W. tennis
authorities have banned private exhibition
matches between amateur and professional
players, while countenancing them under its
own auspices, the Australian body is of a
different mind. It has invited Ivozeluh and
Vincent Richards to come to Australia
for a series of matches with amateurs, while
it is probable that they will be stacked up
against J. O. Anderson and L. Baker, our
only two professionals of class. Indeed, it
is likely that England’s example will be
followed, and an open championship for both
sets of players instituted. The reaction of
the N.S.W. panjandrums to this will be
interesting to note.
- j|: sjs jJ:
“Cut Shot”: The return of Gerald Pat-
terson to the tennis-courts adds interest to
The Ins and Outs
“Glenelg”: Gilligan’s Englishmen made
short work of the South Australians in the
closing stages of the match in Adelaide.
Though the home side had nearly a hundred
runs’ lead on the first innings, the
tourists came along with 416 in their second
try, Frank Woolley contributing a slashing
146. South Australia collapsed in the final
innings, the lot going for 86. Barratt, the
burly Notts professional, took 5 for 32 on a
wicket somewhat affected by rain. Allom,
the Surrey righthander, backed him up with
5 for 26.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: The first'impression of the Eng-
lish cricket team is one of size; though
wicketkeeper Cornford is one of the smallest
players that ever came this way. Barratt
is built on Warwick Armstrong lines, and
most of the others are tall. Harold Gilligan,
on reaching Adelaide, put them through the
severest fielding practice I have seen since
Warner’s time. They are great in that
department, with a particularly fierce throw-
in that “Plum” used to complain lie couldn’t
get. Duleepsinliji (who is medium height
and slight) has a specially sure pair of
hands.
❖ i\i *
“Ringneck”: Ron Halcombe took 3 for
35 off 1) overs, and 2 for 30 off 10 overs, in
the match against the Englishmen in Perth.
As his victims included Woolley and Bowley,
and as he has been, nominated by the
W.A.C.A. for the next Test trials, he is a
possible tourist next year. He is yards
faster than any bowler in the visiting team.
* * *
“Torrens” : Touching pony wicketkeepers
(B. 13/11/’29), let me call attention to the
youthful C. W. Walker, now taking care of
the sticks for South Australia. He had only
one Sheffield game last season, against
N.S.W., and collected eight wickets in the
two innings of the opposition. Against the
Gilliganites in Adelaide the other day his
bag was four in the first hit and three in
the second. A faultless stylist and a deadly
wicket-getter, his claims for the next Aus-
tralian Eleven are indisputable, for he is a
decent batsman, withal.
si: * * *
“Gabba”: Though they won by 23 runs,
the N.S.W. side by no means covered them-
selves with glory in the first Sheffield match
against * Queensland. They gave an inept
exhibition of run-getting in their second inn-
ings, when the Queensland bowlers were
allowed to gain the ascendancy. At one time
5 w r ickets were down for 76, and only dogged
stonewalling by Bradman (66) and an enter-
prising knock by lefthander Marks (51)
helped the side to 198 —it took 5i hours to
make. Though Hornibrook (4-43) showed
something of his old form, the slow bowler
Brew was the successful Queensland trundler
of the day, taking 4 for 21. In spite of a
clinking innings for 117 by Oxenliam,
Queensland found McCabe and Fairfax a
bit too good for them in their second attempt.
afe - * * *
“Aigburth”: E. A. McDonald, one of the
best of the many high-class howlers Aus-
tralia has produced, dropped into Melbourne
the other day for a brief visit. He has been
playing for Lancashire as a professional for
some seasons past, and his success is too
well known to recapitulate. Last season he
took over 150 wickets for the county, though
it was by no means one of his best years,
and he is under contract with Lancashire for
some time to come. He thinks there is no
new bowler of note in sight in Britain.
Larwood has proved a comparative dud since
his return from Australia, and Maurice Tate
still remains the best of them. The most
promising is Clarke, a Northamptonshire
left-hand fast bowler.
* * * *
“Lansdowne”: It is pretty safe to say that
there will be one freshman at Oxford next
cricket season with a reputation and a record
the coming- inter-State match with N.S.W.
and to the Victorian championships which
follow, especially as J. B. Hawkes is also
to resume the flannels. At present N.S.W.
holds every Victorian championship, and the
Yarrasiders are determined that this time
some of them will stay at home. Patterson
is expected to pair with the South Austra-
lian G. M. Hone in the doubles, while
another formidable pair will be Hawkes and
O’Hara Wood. In Jim Willard and young
Dunlop, however, they will be up against
a tough combination. Crawford and Hopman
will be the leading singles representatives
for the Ma State.
“Baseline”: Australia has never boasted
a one-armed tennis player in the champion-
ship class, though St. John, a Queensland
representative, was minus his right hand.
America can claim Clarence Charest, who
won the veterans’ championship at the last
National meeting. He has only his left arm,
but has a capital service and volleys well,
while his ground shots are particularly
severe. In serving he tosses up the ball
with his hand while holding the racquet, and
rarely has occasion for another ball. On top
of it all he is short-sighted, and lias to
play in glasses, a handicap to most tennis
players.
1 -Y- ❖ ; 1 ;
“Reverse”: The accepted theory that a
severe service is a game-winning asset in
tennis has been combated by some, but figures
recently complied by an English statistician
show it to be a correct one.' He took the
final seven matches at this year’s All-England
championship, and of the eight players con-
cerned seven showed a percentage in favor
of the server of over 60 per cent. Oochet
had the highest percentage with 68.8, and
the average was 61.8 per cent.; or 8 out of
5 service games in favor of the server.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Brassey”: The N. S. Wales professional
golfers’ organisation has resolved to add
anothei* annual event for its members to
the professional championship of the State.
A cup, to be known as the P.G.A. Cup,
will be given for a stroke competition over
36 holes. The opening tourney has been
set down for the middle of December, and
the prizes and trophy are to be made attrac-
tive enough to bring in a really representa-
tive entry. The move is a good one. Apart
from his salary and coaching fees, the pro-
fessional in Australia is not given anything
like the opportunities for acquiring fame and
profit which his brethren of Europe and
America enjoy. * * *
“Iconoclast” : It is generally supposed that
onlv those doomed to frequent clubs are
exposed to the terror of golf by night, though
I believe there are exceptions in the case
of folk married to associate members. That
is to be changed, for the Americans, who
always think of these infernal afflictions
first, have introduced electric-light golf on
many of their courses. The innovation is
catching on rapidly, and should soon reach
Australia Conditions are actually more
favorable than in daylight, as long as one
keeps on the fairways and greens. There
are two serious drawbacks which will prob-
ably influence players of Scottish extrac-
tion. One is that it is impossible to find
a ball driven off the lighted area. The other
is the fact that the 19th closes at 6 p.m..
though possibly legislation may be introduced
to remedy this if the new idea catches on.
* * *
“Yerong”: Brisbane annually stages a
golf competition for the Armistice Cup,
which, unlike the A.LF. event in Sydney is
open to anyone who has served with that
famous force, whether he be amatcui or
professional. The event is a handicap one,
and the latest to gain the pot is A W.
Palmer, an amateur from the Goodna club,
whose round of 86 was watered down by a
14 handicap to 72. T. Southcombe, the
Indooroopilly professional, was the first of
the fraternity on the list. On the plus- two
mark, he handed in a card of 74. Denholm
and Quarton, professional champions last
year and this, finished 10th and 53rd respec-
tively, both being handicapped at plus 2. The
subsequent dinner broke all records, and that
is saying something.
* * # *
“Cranousite” : Abe Mitchell, having cracked
his championship duck by winning the Irish
title (B. 30/10/’29), went on to a fresh vic-
tory by taking the professional match-play
championship of Britain by a hole. His
opponent was again Archie Compston, who,
though a great golfer, is a very in-and-out
one. Going over to France immediately
after for the Gallic open, Compston played
inspired golf, only to find that he had tied
with Aubrey Boomer. An 18-liole play-off
saw him lose by one stroke, though his score
was 71. Boomer is a bad 'un to beat on
French courses, most of which he knows by
heart, for, though an Englishman, he has
been professional for years at St. Cloud,
near Paris. This is his fourth French cham-
pionship, and his ambition is to win six
times, as Harry Vardon did in the British
event.
* * * *
“The Mcllaggis”: N.S.W. golf authorities
have instituted a mixed foursomes champion-
ship of the State. The first competition will
be played off at Kensington on November
25, and will be decided by stroke play over
36 holes. The Innovation will be regarded
with apprehension. At tennis the player who
fails on a shot only loses the point for the
side. In golf the associate or partner who
flops on a stroke and lands in the rough
or some impossible bunker has set the other
party to the contract a soul-searing task
which the male partner at least cannot com-
ment upon as the occasion deserves.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Yet another aeroplane
is reported to have crashed on a N.S.W.
golf course, this time at Bathurst. The thing
is becoming monotonous, since only recently
another airman had to make a forced land-
ing on the links at Manly, a most exclusive
club. In each case the intruder landed
on the fairway, and that is something to
be thankful for. One of these days some
flier will crash on a green, and the papers
will be. full of headlines like “Airman Torn
to Pieces by Green Committee,” or words to
that effect.
* * * *
“Hotliam” : With Joe Kirkwood and Wal-
ter Hagen looming in the offing, Victorian
golfers have characteristically got to work
on preparations for the visit. They are guar-
anteeing £lOOO for five matches in the Cab-
bage Garden, which is not bad going. In
N.S.W., on the other hand, the dolce far
niente spirit is still in evidence. Outside
Manly, which has arranged for the two pro-
fessionals to open their tour on the Village
course, the only other N.S.W. club to make
a noise like business is the Australian club,
which has booked the pair for a match._ How-
ever, they won’t be here until early in the
New Year.
* * * *
“Hamilton”: Queensland’s professional
champion is now J. R. Quarton, formerly
prof, at the Toowoomba club and now an in-
structor at one of Brisbane’s business firms
which specialise in athletic outfitting. Quarton
won by 4 and 3 from Charles Brown, of the
Goodn'a club. His success is all the more
notable since he has not long recovered from
a severe accident, which laid him up for
months with a badly broken leg. He was
runner-up to the N.S.W. player Arthur
Spence, now in Melbourne, in the initial
competition in 1926.
(Continued on next page.)


7hp cen/ne of Queens /on c/s
' c//s/ingu/shed Socto/ Life.
WM
RDIQR
BRISBANE
IViagnihcent 5 a i i-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disoosal t>i
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon's, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
_\\\
The Wonder Watch of the Age
Wearing Winds it !
Simply wear it as and when you will upon
your wrist and it goes and Never Stops. Off
your wrist, it will keep going for 34 hours.
It is Dustproof, Damp-proof and cannot Over-
wind. No wonder folk hail as the latest,
greatest, and final refinement in watchmaking
The Harwood
SELF-WINDING
Wrist Watch
S'oh Agents for Australasia: ARONSON & CO., (PTY.) LTD., HOLi HOUSE, KORK. STREET, SYDNEY.
m
Car and Cycle
“Gabba”: The Whippet car which had its
attempt on the world’s non-stop record in
Brisbane some time ago foiled by an inquisi-
tive mosquito has succeeded at the second
attempt. When the engine was switched off
it had been running for 41? days, the speedo-
meter showing 6430 miles, though it is esti-
mated that the equivalent distance for the
full period of running, including the first
essay, was 22,000 miles. The run was 27
hours better than the previous record, and on
examination the four-cylinder engine proved
to be in perfect condition.
“Monthlery” : In spite of the nice things
said about it (B. 13/11/’29) the Lake
George natural speedway has no attractions
for Norman Smith, who is shortly to have
a shy at the mile record. Smith thinks the
rolling would be too expensive, so he will
make his attempt on the famous 90-Mile
Beach in Maoriland. Before crossing the
Tasman he will try a test spin in his new
machine at Gerringong Beach, in N.S.W.,
probably on November 30, when the local
authorities have given him the beach to him-
self for the day.
:!: * * *
“Fitzcray” : The novel go-as-you-please car
contest staged in Victoria recently by the
Light Car Club was a success. Twenty-four
competitors turned out for the event, in which
among- other innovations, the drivers were
allowed to choose their own route between
the fixed points, Melbourne and Forepunkali,
reporting progress en route to the committee
at Porepunkah by wires from the different
towns passed through. The outstanding per-
formance was put up by A. Terdich, winner
of the 200-mile road-race on Phillip Island
last March, who covered 505 miles in the
12 hours allowed in his 1496-c.c. super-
charged Bugatti. Considering the numerous
stops entailed in the towns passed through
entailed by the conditions, the mileage was
excellent. In a dependability test, applied
during a two-day run back to Melbourne, 14
cars received full points.
:!: * *
“Lindis”: Captain Malcolm Campbell has
suggested the building of a concrete speed-
way along the seashore from Boston to Skeg-
ness, in Lincolnshire. The country is low
and flat, and areas covered at high tides
would have to bo reclaimed and a sea-
wall built. The proposed track would be
15 miles in length and 200 ft. wide, and
could be linked up with the local roadway
system. Cost would be about half a mil-
lion, but considering the tremendous crowds
that speed contests now attract —there were
600,000 at the Irish Tourist Trophy race—
the track should pay for itself in no time.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: For years Australia’s cham-
pion professional cyclists have been forced
to go to America and Europe to find
opportunities and prize money. One of the
most brilliant, Cecil Walker, of N.S.W.,
has returned to Sydney under engagement
to ride. Before leaving America, Walker
won the all-round cycle championship of
America for the fifth successive year, a won-
derful feat in that land of top-notch pedal-
pushers.
:|: =1: * *
“Rat Trap”: Hubert Opperman’s great
cycle ride between Sydney and Melbourne in
39hr. 42min„ has invited comparison with
that put up by the old-time amateur, E. A.
Pearson, whose figures of 49 hours stood for
18 years. Opperman rode a modern Frencli
road-racing machine with variable gears.
Pearson’s machine was an ordinary roadster
with taped road-racing tyres, and the roads
ridden are in infinitely better condition now
than in Pearson’s time. Perhaps the real hero
of the route is A. Edward, president of the
Sydney Bicycle and Motor Club. He rc.de
a solid-tyred high-wheeler between the two
cities 45 years ago, and took 10 days on, the
pioneer job.
❖ * ❖
“Ball Race” : The proposed formation of
an Australian board of control to supervise
both amateur and professional wheeling is
likely to fall through, the N.S.W. amateurs
having turned the idea down emphatically.
One of the reasons given for the rejection
was that the whole move, has been engineered
Avith a view of permitting J. Standen to
race as a professional by lifting his disquali-
fication. This the N.S.W. body has refused
to do, in spite of considerable pressure, and
as long as it maintains this attitude the
International Cyclists’ Federation cannot
vary the sentence of suspension it originally
imposed on the ex-Olympic rider.
Miscellaneous
“Rocklea”: Something like basher-gang
warfare was seen at a hare meeting in Bris-
bane the other day. Up here only two dogs
are officially placed, but, business being as
slow as a snail suffering from string-halt, one
Tommy opened a 1-2-3 concession-book,
placing the third dog himself. The mugs
came at it like homing doves. He did such
good business that his brother bagmen
resorted to direct action. At the finish of
the last race he was surrounded by a jost-
ling mob, which made it quite impossible for
him to place his third dog. He was still
explaining the situation to a mob of enraged
punters, mostly female, when I left the
course.
* * * *
“Third Base” : A very pretty compliment
has been paid to Australian sportsmanship
by George Story, captain of the American
Multomah baseball team, which, arriving
practically unheralded in Sydney, achieved
great success, and popularity withal. He
notes that outside horse-racing, boxing,
wrestling and “part of the football’’ Austra-
lian sport is entirely amateur. “They play
the game for the sake of the game, and not
only for the sake of winning.” A suspicion
arises here that George was not given the
dinkum oil regarding Sheffield cricket.
“Blue Chalk”: The double victory of
McGonachy and Walter Landrum over Davis,
the English champion, and Willie Smith has
delighted every billiard player in Australia
and Maoriland. M'ost were confident that
Walter would more than hold his own against
the best, but not many expected the Maori-
lander to prove himself a real top-notcher.
His defeat of Davis has put him right among
the mighty men of the cue, coupled as it
was with a break of 1377, by far the best
he has ever made. Lindrum, easing down in
the last stages of his match with Smith,
won by nearly 1400. He twice ran over the
thousand, his best being 1271,
# * * *
“Ilayband”: If swimming records had to
be minim, the figures would stand longer.
But swimming is a hybrid sport. For a start
the alleged (Swimmer takes a prodigious leap
through the air. That isn’t swimming;
neither is the initial rush through the water
which results. Also, swimming is the one
sport where speed is picked up on the turns ;
and turns there shouldn’t be. Kicking the
end out of a Yankee pie-dish every 25 yards
or so is anything but swimming. If contests
were made to start at a rope and end at
another the present alleged records would
have to be wiped off.
❖ &
“The Gaffer”: N.S.W. athletic authorities
are casting a dubious eye on club records
handed in. They are finding out that the
times at big meetings are a darned sight
faster than those vouched for by club officials.
The discrepancies are most marked in the
women’s division. Women athletes are like
that. I recall Ermyntrude de Tomkynnes—
she was most particular about the “de”—
who was leading lady in my renowned All-
Star Dramatic and Athletic Co. Ermyn-
trude weighed 16 stone, and her activities
were confined to playing the ingenue on the
dramatic side of the business. Yet the
night I bunked with the cash she caught
me just as the Townsville express was pull-
ing out of The Towers. I had a long start,
too, and the Tommies wouldn’t have given
her a hope.
❖ ❖ ❖ ❖
“Spike”: Rumored that Lane Cooper,
winner of the 1928 Stawell Gift and the
alleged world’s sprint championship held in
Melbourne this year, is to be taken to com-
pete in the Powder Hall meeting, at Edin-
burgh, just before Christmas. Powder Hall
is the Mecca of all professional sprinters in
A. H. H. GILLIGAN, skipper of the
Marylebone C.C. eleven.
these days, for, though the meeting is a
Scottish one, the prizes are worth while,
and the fame of a win or a place is always
useful to the fraternity; Postle and Donald-
son have figured there with success. But it
hardly seems worth while to ship the Vic-
torian half-caste. He has not broken evens
at any time in his career, and on the
other side he will assuredly meet men who
have a fraction to their credit. Further, who
is to look after the lad? Queenslanders of
a generation ago will remember the wrath
of the public which forced the then Home
Secretary to intervene in the exploitation of
Jerry Jerome, a notable aboriginal boxer of
those days.
* * * ❖
“Stand Off - ’: The death of Jean Latter-
rade, one of the best half-backs who have
represented France in Rugby internationals,
draws attention to the pre-eminence of the
Basques in French Rugby. They are only
a small community, yet there are always
half a dozen of them in any French side,
and usually the best half-dozen. It may be
due to the fact that their national game,
pelota, though a small-ball game played
against a wall, is one of the hardest in the
world, calling as it does for perfect condition,
great pace and an unerring eye and hand.
GEORGE McLEOD, the Victorian cyclist
who recently put up a record ride on
a push-bike between Adelaide and Mel-
bourne.
“Topping Lift”; N.S.W. yachtsmen are
in a sad quandary. A pot of money has been
raised to build three yachts to wrest the
21ft. restricted-class championship from Tas-
mania. The first of the trio to be tried has
disappointed everyone. She made little better
time than an elderly jellyfish of apoplectic
habits, and the skipper appointed to sail her
has _ sent in his papers. How Nos. 2 and
3 will turn out has yet to be seen, but, since
they are said to have been built on different
moulds, there is yet a ray of hope.
* * * *
“Derwent”: Tasmania, which has only
recently entered the field of 16ft. skiff sail-
ing so popular in all the other States, has
been granted the right to hold the 1930-31
Australian championships at Hobart, though
the date was originally allotted to N.S.W.
The Tassies will have to give guarantee
they will start at least one representative
in future contests in the other States. This
season’s championship will be sailed on the
Brisbane River, and Verona, last season’s
winner, will be brought all the way from
Westralia to defend her title.
* * * si:
“Whizz”: Malcolm Campbell, discussing
the Schneider Cup races, said that when
the noise of the racing ’plane’s engine
struck the ear, he had to look two miles
ahead of the sound to see the ’plane that
produced it. It may be all right, but it
recalls the yarn of the Cape Otway gums
which require two men and a boy to look
up them, one beginning where the other
leaves off.
* ije *
“Crawl”: The recent revival of water
polo in N.S.W. and Victoria —it is also
showing signs of life in Queensland—has
determined followers of* the game in the Ma
State to form an association to control it.
Though water polo was played as long ago as
1893 and was highly popular for many years
afterwards, games and competitions were
held under the auspices of the Amateur
Swimming Association. In addition to inter-
state matches this season, there is a project
afoot to send an Australian team to the
Los Angeles Olympiad in 1932. This will
require the formation of a Federal control-
ling authority.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: An athlete of many parts
was Norman Trevor, who died in Holly-
wood recently at /he age of 52. Born in
Calcutta, he ’was educated at St. Xavier’s
College there, and for seven years, from
1893 to 1900, was India’s champion all-round
athlete. Going to England, he was a mem-
ber of the 1900 British Olympic team. Later
he took to the stage, and for years was a
well-known actor in England and America,
in which last country he finally threw in his
lot with the movies.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Steljsby”: Broken up in Adelaide re-
cently, the ferry steamer Gem, an old identity
of Port Phillip. She ran between Port Mel-
bourne and Williamstown for nearly 40
years. Bob Watson was her skipper for
nearly the whole period.
* * * *
“Borom”: Australia imports fairly large
quantities of iodine and its salts. Yet our
coastline is strewn with seaweeds, which are
rich in the element. The process of extrac-
tion is chemically simple; it requires neither
expensive plant nor a large supply of labor.
Here is a useful industry going a-begging;
and it has big possibilities of expansion on
the stock-tonic side.
* * * *
“Tamornie” : Business may be bad, but the
cash flows towards Tasmania when the Mel-
bourne Cup draws nigh. For three ss. 6d.
sweeps and two at 225. £297,500 was sub-
scribed. Many applications for bunches of
tickets come from syndicates, but assuming
that 75 p.c. came from individuals, postage
stamps to the value of £9375 were used.
* * s!= *
“Hinemoa”: “Padraic’s” friend (B.
IS/9/’29) found Australia the cheapest
country in the world to travel in. It was
not my experience. For example, I had a
cabin trunk and two small suitcases by way
of luggage. A taxi from the Customs shed
in Melbourne to a Spencer-street hotel cost
me 18s.; from the Customs in Wellington
to residence on hill, 2s. 6d.; from railway
station to hotel, London, 4s. 6d. The dis-
tance in Maoriland was slightly longer than
either of the other two. and it was not flat.
At Melbourne I was charged 2s. wharfage:
at Wellington Is.
* * * *
“Circuit”: The best telegraph line in Aus-
tralia doesn’t stand to the credit of the Postal
Department. It is' the railway-controlled
wire connecting Port Augusta and Kalgoorlie
(W.A.). It is of 3001 b. copper, and, extend-
ing 1052 miles, is one of the longest in the
world. lam not aware of the Postal Depart-
ment possessing even one copper wire tele-
graph line, though telephone lines of the sort
are common enough. As to the advantages of
copper over iron wire—ask any telegraphist.
:|: * * *
“Nitric”: A new truck loader, the inven-
tion of D. Sliand, an Armidale (N.S.W.)
man, is attracting attention. At Armi-
dale a. ton of moist earth was loaded
in less than five minutes. At Maroubra,
with a large shovel, four tons of sand were
loaded in four minutes. The loading device
is operated direct from the gear-box, and the
gearing is such that the shovel can be sub-
jected to a 40-ton pull. The truck is pre-
vented from reversing by four-wheel brakes.
The tipping device is just as swift and
efficient.
: : : * sic sfc
“L’Fou” : The law that limits usury might
well be reinforced to control dealers in time-
payment goods. An insolvent Vic. farmer
recently handed back a harvester, on which
he had paid £5OO-odd, a motor-car, which
he had had only six months (amount
paid, £125), and a wheat-pickler, half paid
for. The Judge suggested that a sale should
bo obligatory in such cases, the hire-pur-
chaser to be entitled to anything over the
amount due to the vendor. And why not?
❖ # * $
“Feng-Shui” : Quinine is still the one in-
dispensable weapon in the battle against
malaria. Unfortunately, the price is so high
that millions of natives in tropical and sub-
tropical regions are unable to use.it with
the necessary regularity, and district medi-
cal officers are obliged merely to toy with
the problem of prevention. The principal
reason for the high cost is that the Dutch
have a virtual monopoly of cultivation. More
than 90 p.c. of the cinchona placed on the
world’s markets is grown in Java and
Sumatra ; and the value of the export last
year was a million sterling An Italian
doctor recently announced the discovery of
synthetic quinine,* but high authorities have
pronounced his invention valueless. A feas-
ible way to break the Dutch monopoly
seems to be to cultivate cinchona. North
Australia has hundreds of square miles with
a soil and climate similar to the regions
where the plant is grown in Java. And con-
sidering the value of the thing nobody can
say it is an industry solely for coolies.
* * * *
“Arikiwai”: Maoriland is faced with a
problem in regard to its deer herds, the
depredations of which are causing concern
to the Government Forestry Department and
out-back settlers. Departmental figures esti-
mate the herds as numbering 300,000 in
1922. The annual increase is reckoned at
25 per cent., and on that basis the present
tally should be close on a million and ;
half head, but for the fact that allowance
has to be made for 60,000 head destroyed.
The damage done by deer to young forest
growth and pastures is enormous. Whole-
sale extermination is advocated, but that’s
a difficult job in the mountainous country
wlvuv the deer congregate.


V
*' * /
AMD ENJOY GOOD
THE pleasant practice of taking
Eno’s “Fruit Salt” leads to the
enjoyment of really good health. Do
you know days when everything
seems to go wrong and you don t
feel up to the mark; work becomes
an effort; and, when playing your
favorite game you can t do anything
right? Usually the reason is not far
to seek. The most important of
the bodily functions is working
imperfectly. Yet how easy it is to
remedy this! An invigorating glass
of Eno’s “Fruit Salt,” sparkling and
refreshing, before breakfast, will help
your body to free itself thoroughly
from waste and poisons, and put
you on the “top of your form” all
day long.
Eno contains no purgative mineral
salts, so that its regular use does not
form an indispensable habit. Follow
the lead of countless healthy people
the world over start your day with
a glass of water sparkling with a dash
of Eno’s “Fruit Salt.”
In two sizes at Chemists and Stores
ENOS
FRUIT SALT
M
MARK
PREPARED ONLY BY J. C. ENO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sales Agents: THE BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE & CO. LTD. SYDNEY, N.S.W**


Wi
£ > s
&
•4
J
J*
yy
«r
.°,-r
b>'l ta^rrVT..^
fa
Dm
rp
rvT '^rx
*tL.
: -’lr-
V
V/
4.
\
7a
Ik
j f!
N
OMO
No. 620 “4711”
Powders, perfumed
with “4711” Eau
de Cologne, 2/6 &
3/6 per box.
Ao. 642 Compact
Powder, perfumed
with “4711” Tosca,
5/- each.
UUKCMjKNZ
WDMuogMl
Aa unequalled
SJviepwfcr the hill
SaSSS
No. 951 "4711”
Edit de Cologne
Liquid Shampoo,
3/- per bottle. Rose
and Eau 4*e Cologne
perfume.
mm
No. 475 "4711”
Bath Salts, per-
fumed with "4711”
Eau de Cologne.
3/6, 4/6 Si 5/6
per bottle.
No. 859 "4711”
Eau de Cologne
Soap, 1/3 per cake.
Edu de Cologne and
Lavender Perfume.
The Summer QirV
Preference l
The universal popularity
of the Blue and Gold
labelled Eau de
Cologne is due to the fact
that, for nearly 150 years,
it has been made from the
finest ingredients, according
to the original recipe. It never
varies in quality, and its pur-
ity, fragrance and strength
have never been
surpassed.
When buying Eau de
Cologne insist upon the
Blue and Gold labelled
~47 11”
Obtainable from all leading
chemists and departmental
stores.
m
(ii>ayMW«wi»rt
MOCXf N6MSI UNIT
rst-'
IJ*+* (•!««» *
.CIOCNCNfiASSC N>«7II
EAU DE COLOGNE
No. 43
Watch Shape
2/3
No. 5
Original Shape
6/6
No. 50
The new size
which holds as
much as 20 of
the 2/3 size,
30/-; and sizes
from 1/6 to
75/* P er bottle.
fyrazoc/one
* fa
one
No. 110 "4711”
"Frozoclone”
Solid Eau de
Cologne, 3/6 &
4/6.
re
SSB
5s
No. 463 "4711
Cold Cream
1/9, 3/- & 3/9
No. 453 "4711”'
Vanishing
Cream,
1/3, 2/3 & 3/.
mu.
zaude
oloPne


52 Macleay St
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT, SYDNEY
(Located within the City Boundary, ten
minutes from, G.P.0.)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 160 rooms, is now open, and
features Single Rooms, Double
Rooms with Bath, and two-, three-
and four-room Suites with Bath.
Central Heating, Hot and Cold
Water, ’Phone and Bedside Lamp
m each room. Unsurpassed
Harbor views.
Telephone: F 2 16 1 (8 lines).
Telegraphic Address: “Fifmac,”
Sydney.
jd Model of Convenience
The position and character of the Wentworth make it ideal for those
who appreciate refined comfort and convenience. Situated high on
Church Hill, away from the noise and dust of the city traffic,
The Wentworth is yet wonderfully handy to all shops and theatres
and the business centre. Many bedrooms have their own private
bathrooms. Each has its private telephone and hot-water service.
The Wentworth is personally conducted by Mrs. Maclurcan, whose
reputation as a caterer and restaurateur is world wide.
Wire or write your reservations.
Ohc
Church Hill,
Sydney.
AUSTRALIA’S
HOTEL DE-LUXE
Unde?
Royal
d
ToH.NI
Kin*
George V
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
I
Australasian Agants—
Swift & Company U mited
SYDNEY.
HAMPACKt
jii—ng2?
PELLI3SOIM
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Assure—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED. Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
make a note
of this!
Of all the parties of the week this Letter
liked the Nationalist reception to Mr. Bruce
best. It was held in the Town Hall, which
alone could have held the hundreds \vno
came, mostly by tram and taxi (the limousine
was a rare bird in the throng), to shake Aus-
tralia’s ex-I’riminister by the hand, and wish
him top place next time. Mr Bruce impec-
cable and glossy, shook nearly a thousand
hands before mounting the platform to have
speeches made at him —hands that peeped
out of luxurious coat-sleeves.; that slipped
Carmen-wise through a fringe of exotic
shawl; cotton-gloved hands that crept shyly
from beneath water-proofed coats; hands
thrust out of the sleeves of belted tweed
coats, or suavely fringed with linen and
broadcloth as immaculate as Mr. Bruce s
own. Girls in the backless frock of the
moment with cascading trails of real flowers
tapping tile vertebrae rubbed shoulders with
women in cloth tailor-mades topped ,by the
felt puli-on. Later on, when dancing got
into full swing, middle-aged ladies who had
come without escorts danced together. It
was just as happy and friendly as that.
If Mr. Bruce read his future and that of
the National party by signs, then it promised
to be roses, roses all the way ; for the out-
line of the hall was blurred with blooms that
softened the outlines of pillars and rambled
from side to side of the galleries. True, as
a captious Laborite pointed out, the roses,
being paper, were without scent; but it was
equally true that they were without thorns.
There was bunting by the mile to make loyal-
ists feel at home, and Bed Cross invincible
Mrs. R. R. S. Mackinnon sniffed the soldierly
note with appreciation. Other well-known
women who bobbed up on that sea of humans
were Dame Mary Cook, Mrs. E. W. Laverty
and Sarah Hynes. Premier Bavin brought
daughters Nancy and Shirley, and with the
former in her rose-pinlc velvets Mr. Bruce
danced as smoothly and rhythmically as if he
were doing exhibition ice-skating. The Gar-
licks came, she as fresh as a daisy in blue
and silver lame in spite of having been on
deck all the afternoon at her own party for
the t.-b. appeal. The Nationalists’ secre-
tary, H. W. Horsfield, brought his wife, who
wore beflowered chiffons.
Lord Craigavon, the very distinguished
first Prime Minister of Northern Ireland,
who has been visiting Sydney, has taken'his
handsome wife on to Maoriland, where they
expect to have a thorough holiday ; if they
can find a sufficiently quiet and alluring
retreat they are prepared to spend three
months in Joseph Ward’s kingdom. In
Sydney Lord Craigavon talked the possibili-
ties over with the M.L. Government’s enthu-
siastic representative W. R. Blow. But Mr.
Blow couldn’t say as much as he wanted to
about his precious pleasure-ground because
the visitor wanted to talk about “Farmer”
Massey, Maoriland’s late Prime Minister.
Between these two, it seems, something more
than ordinary friendship had followed a
chance meeting, and when Lord Craigavon
had been consulted about a name for some
new public work of consequence in northern
Ireland, he had recommended “Massey,” in
honor of his Maoriland friend, and so it had
been christened.
Lord Craigavon, a fine figure of a man, was
a soldier before lie was a statesman, and
served in the S’African War. He can’t
remember the time when he wasn’t interested
in public affairs, and he turned towards
Australian problems with tremendous
interest. “And then,” he says, “I found you
haven’t got any. Not what you can really
call problems. .Difficulties, yes; but none
that can’t be overcome by working more and
spending less.”
When the. Ministers’ wives entertained
Premiei| Bavin’s lady to photographs and tea
on Parliament House lawns on a recent after-
noon, Lady Craigavon was the most upstand-
ing and outstanding visitor. Although the
day was steaming, she sustained with dignity
a black cloth coat collared in beige fox.
She looked the sort of wife a man wouldn’t
dare offer anything but real pearls. Mrs.
Apsley, from the Solomon Islands, was there,
looking complaisance in flowered pink georg-
ettes. and Lady Murchison Fletcher, wife
of the Governor-Dlsignate of Fiji, proved
that she could be .'discreetly evasive. Shi;
and her husband, w’fo have been toiling in the
official vineyard of Ceylon for •the past few
years, agree enthusiastically that they have
enjoyed their stay in Sydney. Mrs. Bavin,
in black lace, was very alert, while daughters
Shirley and Nancy purred in powder-blue,
and pretty Lucille Bruntnell, who later on,
fortified with strawberries, used the Speaker’s-
chair for the background of her recitations,
aired a pink lace ensemble at which a mul-
berry crinoline hat positively snapped. Mrs.
Wincheombe, Mrs. Bavin’s mother, and Mrs.
F. A. Chaffey, in pale honey-colored frocking,
were others who subtly made their presence
felt.
Whatever, the gilded youth and middle age
of other lands may think of them. Sydney
doesn’t go nap on no-sleep-to-niglit parties.
To begin with, the graceful drone gilded with
inherited wealth doesn’t exist in large
numbers hereabouts, and the lad who's got
a job to do doesn’t cotton to the idea of
making merry first on the ballroom floor,
and then on the sand's of Bondi, Coogee
or Manly. Or, if lie does, he is afraid the
boss won’t. This idea of seeing the day
break over Hampstead Heath after a night’s
rioting, finished off with ham and eggs at a
coffee stall, may go well with the.smart set of
London, who can go home and rest till the
evening star and a Martini rouse them to the
night’s work ahead. But to the Sydney
young man and woman, getting home at 6.30
iii the morning, with the Bundy to punch at
nine, changes the revel into the very devil.
Still, Sydney made a success of its first
all-night ball last week. Midnight saw it
start, and daylight caught the young fairly
between the eyes as they emerged from the
Palais at Moore Park. Some rain was fall-
ing, too, but those who had come to the ball
with surfers ready for the morning dip went
right ahead, and had their early plunge while
a cold wind blew off Bondi. The ball, which
was in aid of the Picton Lakes T.B. settle-
ment, netted a thousand or more, dancers,
though not many waited till cockcrow and
the subsequent service of ham and eggs.
(But what would chanticleer and liis harem
have said to the candy eggs substituted for
the barnyard variety?) Shirley Tobin, presi-
dent of the organising committee, was
radiant in gold lame and sequins. Mrs.
Stuart Doyle, who helped actor Leo Carrillo
to judge who was the best-dressed woman, in
the room, wrapped herself in hedge-rose pink
sprayed with diamente. The prize was taken
home by Donalda Warm*, whose black satin
frock was encased in a hip-length cuirass of
tiny flat steel discs, finished in the front with
a round buckle from which a long tassel of
the beads dripped to the end of the skirt.
Secretary Mrs. C. A. Cotton wore Nile-green
moire finished' off with a bustle bow, and
organising-secretar.v Grant Hanlon’s wife
was another wearer of the green.
Mrs. Cleary, the wife of the new Chief
Commissioner of Railways, is a tall, blue-
eyed woman with a family of five small girls,
so her career is mapped out for her. She is
a musician, loves the beach at Balmoral, and
plays tennis well, but, unlike her husband,
has no passion for walking. Judith Fletcher
made this picture for us.
Soprano Joy McArden, who raised her
voice with the Royal Philharmonics last week,
is an upstanding blonde with a milk-and-roses.
complexion. Amsterdam is the place of her
birth, and the opera houses of the world
have been her playground. Her voice _is
round and full, and capable of sustaining
the vocal efforts of the full-blooded heroines
beloved of Wagner. She was the Elsa of
“Lohengrin” and the Elizabeth of “Tann-
liauser,” and the Town Hall simply chivvied
her on to greater and greater heights by its
prolonged applause. Madame McArden (Mrs.
Dcmarquette) is now in charge of the school
of opera at the Melbourne Uni. Con.
Apart from her singing, Madame McArden
regaled Sydney with some frank observations
about Australia. Its girls attract . her.
“But, oh!” she says, “they do drink too
many cocktails!”
The £5OOO Citizens’ Appeal sot in motion
by Mrs. John Garlick for a T.B. clinic and
a children’s home on the Mountains lias
passed its half-way. The figure now stands
at almost £2700, with an expenditure of only
£298. The cabaret in the Town Hall last
week must have given the total a tine lift.
The sober old stronghold looked positively
coy for its first excursion into afternoon
frivolities. It was trellised with roses,
roses ran among its electrics, and giddy little
pennants flipped a glad hand at dowager and
Dulcinea on the floor below.. Rut don t
think this was a for-women-only party, ihere
were twice seven hundred soles tapping the
boards in time to the Police Rand, and quite
a quarter of them were masculine eights and
nines. Among their owners were Leo Car-
rillo, Commander Quick, Belgian Consul-
General Segaert, Kingsford Smith and
brother-airman C. T. Ulm, Town Clerk Lay-
ton and John Fuller. Mrs. Garlick and Mrs.
Ferrari Passmore, who-organised the success,
were pursued with congratulations. M-JS.
J. Ci Williamson gilded hers with £;>().
Phyllis Fuller, the pretty secretary, hos-
tessed a birthday party in a frock of rose
and black crepe de Chine, and added to her
table decorations a presentation basket of
roses, mignonette and pansies.
Mrs. Stevenson, the new hostess at Tresco
in Elizabeth Ray, greets you from this
Bernice Agar picture. The wife of the Cap-
tain Superintendent of Garden. Island is five-
foot-something of rose cheeks, blue eyes and
sunny temper, and she promises to make the
official residence one of the most popular
homes in Syd-
ney. After her
husband and
the children,
the garden
and the dogs
are Mrs. Stev-
enson’s chief
interests in
life. One child
r e mains m
Melbourne ; of
the other two,
one goes to
Cranbrook, the
other to Kam-
bala. The cap-
tain and his
wife are not
altogether
without family
ties in Syd-
ney, Mrs. Stev-
enson’s sister
being married
to Captain Wilkinson, of. the Sherwood
Foresters, a brother of Miss Wilkinson, of
C. of E. Grammar. Hobart still sorrows
over the untimely end of Mrs. Bailey,. Mrs.
Stevenson's mother, who was killed in an
aeroplane disaster between Croydon and
Paris one ill-fated Christmas Day. She
had had her Christmas dinner in London
with the Stevensons, and was flying across
to the Christmas tree at Mrs. Wilkinson's
home in Paris when tragedy intervened just
after the ’plane left London.
In honor of the American tourists who
will arrive by the luxury ship Malolo, Syd-
ney Chamber of Commerce is giving a
luncheon at the Wentworth on the 25tli, the
day of their arrival. Two nights later the
American Society of N. S. Wales will hold
its Thanksgiving Day dinner dance to fit in
with the tourists' movements, as on the
proper date, the 28th, the Malolo will be at
sea again.
By way of introducing their huge Fokker
monoplanes, Australian National Airways
carried out a series of passenger trips over
Sydney from Mascot Aerodrome last week-
end. The most interesting part of the
show was the manner in which flapperdom
rushed the flights, crowding into the com-
fortable cabin, and showing manifest dis-
appointment at the end because these were
absolutely without thrill. Indeed, the com-
plete steadiness of the great triple-engine
'bus came as a surprise to many accustomed
to smaller typeSj and the usual tendency to
turn a light pea-green at the first lift off the
ground seemed conspicuously absent.
Irene Gliddon, Jack Heney’s bride, fol-
lowed the renewed fashion of wearing gloves
at her wedding. Nearly shoulder-long, of
white kid, they went with a frock with miles
of white Chantilly in it. A snowdrift of
train made up of the lace and a tulle
veil was heaped about her as she made
her promises at the altar of St ; John’s,
in Darlinghurst. Mrs. Gilbert Wood and
bride’s sister Clare brought a flutter of
lilac georgettes into the procession, and
wore their. heads swathed in turbans that
suggested a Hassan illustration. The
bride’s flowers were lily of the valley, while
her attendants carried gladioli. Padre C.
A. Lucas tied the knot, and let this Letter
remind you that the best-man was Lord
xVmherst. The Queen’s Club served tin'
savory of congratulation with the bowl of
rejoicing under the direction of ML and
Mrs. G. R. Gliddon. one time of Adelaide,
now of 52 Macleay-street.
Palest pink satin allied with Mechlin lace
received the sigh of commendation when
Margaret Gelling stepped up the Congrega-
tional Church at Killara. A tulle veil
and orange blossom hinted strongly at tin-
nature of her business in the church that
afternoon, and onlookers were not surprised
when they found a bridegroom and a padre
to complete the blessed triangle. Dr. V. R.
Ilarbison, son of Dr. J. W., of Roseville,
was the ’groom, and two maids in floating
green chiffons were pictorial adjuncts.
Mollie Hartland, one of the pretty brides
of the week, chose St. Mark's at Darling Point
for her surrender to Alan Wilcox. Macraule
lace, a golden tulle veil that flowed into
a train, and a sheaf of golden gladioli and
orchids were chief ingredients of her apparel.
Sister Mrs. Alan Fleming sustained the
golden note in a frock of daffodil chiffon and
an armful of yellow pansies and roses, and
St. Mark’s was brave with yellow gladioli
and broom. Congratulations were said at
the Ambassadors, where Mr. and Mrs. Joseph
Hartland did the handsome thing by their
daughter and her friends.
Philanthropist Bosch, who drops his thou-
sands about as though they were shillings
and whose bequests have given a new lease
of life to Sydney’s Uni., went off for a health
trip not long ago, and ended up by marrying
Mary Jupp, of Ryde. She is a trainee of
Prince Alfred's and an old family friend;
she and her mother and brother were often
Mr. Bosch’s dinner and theatre guests before
the romance was even guessed at.
For one week only Mrs. Alexander Gordon
is going into business. She will be the high
priestess of the One Week Shop which
society matrons are organising to raise funds
for the Mrs. Arthur Allen memorial. This
will take the form of the new nurses’ home
at the Karitaue Mothercraft Centre, to
which welfare work Airs. Allen was devoted.
The committee is st arching the city for a
shop in which to display its goods, but as
they will be tenants for seven days only
the place is not so easy to find. In this One
Week Karitane Shop Mrs. Victor White
and Mr. Mann (Mt. Wilson) will display
miniature Japanese Gardens arranged by
themselves. Mrs. Colin Stephen will con-
tribute embroideries, and fine needlework
will be Mrs. Stuart Osborne’s line of goods.
A specially fragrant gross of lavender bags
will be on sale, the lavender fresh packed
from Miss Macarthur Onslow’s garden at
Camden Park. Other ardent workers are
Mrs. John Fuller, Mrs. Nigel Smith and
Mrs. Danger Owen.
Seventy years or more ago a young man
from the Midlands got a printer’s job in the
Sydney Herald office. Later, influenced by
the original John Fairfax, the chief pillar
of the Pitt-street Congregational Church, he
joined its ministry, and thereafter wore its
collar in N. S. Wales, in Queensland and in
Victoria. When he died 18 or 20 years back
his daughter Harriet (Hattie) crossed over
from Melbourne and presently became secre-
tary at the Congregational Union office—in
the Pitt-street premises where her father
had got his early instruction. Miss Browne,
a frail little atom of benevolence, contracted
pneumonia the week-end before last, and her
large circle of friends were mourning her
death four days later.
In her travels a Sydney woman lately
returned from America met delightful Mar-
garet Anglin, still affectionately remembered
by Australian theatregoers of the latter days
of the unshortened skirt. The re-union
occurred at the University of California,
where Margaret was representing Antigone.
The hair banded in the Greek fashion tight
to the head showed off the classic loveliness
of the actress’s face. It was a daylight
and open-air performance, and the intimacy
of the bare feet of the chorus as they came
pattering and striding in haste up the stone
pathways around which the audience was
seated increased rather than lessened the
sombre atmosphere. Another open-air per-
formance engraved indelibly on the mind of
this Sydney traveller was an orchestral con-
cert at the Bowl in Hollywood. This is a
huge natural amphitheatre, where when the
concert season is frayed out the greatest
artists can be heard for anything up to a
dollar. Under a bright, full moon, the only
artificial lights being on the conductor’s
baton and the musicians’ stands, _ Goossens
and his orchestra wove magic in sound.
Here, too, the great Oukransky, of the Rus-
sian Ballet that later on was to fascinate
New York in “Aida.” danced to the music of
Rimsky Korsakoff’s “Hymn to the Sun.
His figure was gilded from brow to toes, and
his head was surmounted with a rising sun
head-dress. There was an unforgettable
pagan splendor and abandon about that
SCGIIG.
Dora Jarret (not long back from Paris),
Alison Relifisch, Arthur Murch (a former
Society of Artists scholarship holder) and
Neville Barker will hold a show in the Blax-
land Galleries from December 3 onwards.
Philip Morton, friend of all young artists,
will launch the four-man show.
OVERHEARD (This One Was at Flemington.)
Punter: “What price Nightmarch?”
Rookie: “Four to one.’’ (The dissatisfied punter
begins to walk away.) “You won’t get better
than that if you walk your boots off.’’
Punter: “I wouldn’t take those odds, anyway.
Think I’m a mug?’’
Bookie: “Course y’are. You wouldn’t be here i!
you wasn’t!”


Educational.
SCOTCH COLLEGE,
TORRENS PARK, MITCHAM, S.A.
A BOARDING and DAY SCHOOL for
Boys. Headmaster, N. M. G. Gratton,
8.A., Dip. Ed. (Melbourne). Professional,
Commercial and Agricultural Courses.
Prospectus and further particulars may be
obtained from the Headmaster or the Sec-
retary, W. D. C. Paton, F.C.A. (Aust.),
A.M.P. Chambers, Adelaide.
SCOTT’S
“RENOWN” BRAND
ROPE, CORDAGE AND
BINDER TWINE.
Manufactured at Mascot, Sydney,
by
J. SCOTT, LIMITED.
Head Office and Stores:
163 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 82861. G.P.O. Box 251 DD.
Do 2 Things
And Add
Thousands of
Miles
To the Life
of
Your Tyres
ď
Experienced motorists every-
where are reducing their tyre
expense by following these
simple suggestions:
First, they see that a gen-
uine Schrader Valve Inside,
in good condition, is screw-
ed into every tyre valve*
This wonderful little valve
inside is equally dependable
for holding air in either
balloon or high pressure
tyres.
Second, they screw an
improved Schrader No. 880
Valve Cap tightly by hand
on every tyre valve. This
valve cap keeps dirt from
damaging the valve inside
and is airtight up to 250
lbs.
Sold by Accessory Dealers everywhere
Schrader
Makers of Pneumatic Valves Since 1844
Tyre Valves:: Tyre Gauges
A. SCHRADER’S SON, Inc.
Proprietary Limited
422 Little Collins St.
Melbourne, Australia
Learn to
DRAW
Anyone can learn to draw success-
fully, provided an aptitude for
study is shown and an earnest
endeavor is exerted to master the
fundamental principles of drawing.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF
DRAWING
teaches you these principles in easy,
concise and interesting lessons.
Every Student’s work isi corrected
and criticised by Mr. Harry J.
Weston personally.
The great advantage of Mr.
Weston’s method of teaching
drawing by post is that
pupils are taught to DRAW
—not to copy.
*
■
¥f^W 5 -
J
o
0
Former pupils of the Weston School are now well-known Cartoonists in Australian Newspapers,
and many Weston pupils make money by sketching long before they complete the course.
Send three stamps to cover postage and we will forward you Mr. Weston’s booklet, entitled
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN,” which tells all about the course and gives examples of
lessons and specimens of students’ work.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
84 UNION HOUSE, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A PRESENT THAT WILL BE
đ
APPRECIATED
THE APEX STOCKWHIP
Beautifully plaited in two colors with
a neat artistic Swastika design in
both handle and thong.
The thong is Bft. long and 20 plait.
Price, complete - 82/6
Post free for cash.
For 2/6 extra we will plait up to Four Initials
in Handle.
K’BURRA STOCKWHIPS
Guaranteed Kangaroo right through with
inside plaited belly. Not fancy plait. Post
free for cash.
Thongs 6ft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft.
12-plait 18/6 21/- 23/6 27/6
16-plait 21/6 24/6 27/6 31/6
HANDLES TO MATCH: 16-plait, 17/-; 24-plait, 19/-.
Loaded Handles for 9ft. Thongs 1/6 more.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON LTD.
395 George Street, Sydney.
Box 785 G.
Don’t Lose What You’ve Got
The future is uncertain. Numerous companies are
showing greatly-reduced profits.
Prices of many investments have fallen.
The wise man will watch his little lot.
You may have everything in insurance policies. All
the more reason to see the offices are sound. There
are offices that are not sound.
The leading Australian authority on all these
matters ia
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6. From news-
agents, or “Bulletin” Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
Winchester Rifle, Model 56.
22-Cal. Long Rifle only
Handles well
and
Shoots well.
d
Write for Catalogue B.
The Rifle
for Small Game
Price, £5. Post free to all parts of
Australia.
The Gun House,
COWLES O. DUNN,
453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Quetn Artni Shape
Her
Honoured Quests
E thin cups and
saucers of
Shelley China are a mark of
quality: it is in compliment
to her guests that a lady gives
them Tea in ware that a
Queen might be proud of.
English bone China and
the craftsmanship tradition-
al at Shelley’s are the secret
of this perfection.
Ask to see the latest
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery Ware
iy Lucie Attweu
& Hilda Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
• MAJ>(
•N CA9t OP ANV DIFFICULTY IN OftTAINIMO
wmn to
See Tasmania
and—Live !
A few hours away from
Sydney by the big, luxur-
ious “Zealandia” is the
most enthralling holiday
resort under the Southern
Cross—Tasmania, the
paradise of flowers, moun-
. tains, lakes, rivers, sport,
fishing, life-giving sun-
shine and wonderful
resources.
Come over to
HOBART
Tasmania’s beautiful
capital, and begin the
most wonderful holiday of
your life. You can get all
the information you re-
quire from
rASMANIAN GOVERNMENI
TOURIST BUREAU,
Ocean House, 34 Martin Place
SYDNEY.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuct
If you havo
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
ď
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.


COMMONWEALTH Si PER CENT LOAN 1934
AMOUNT ASKED FOR
£10,000,000
Interest, 5£ per cent.
Price of Issue, £9B.
Period of Loan, 5 Years.
AVERAGE ANNUAL
INTEREST,
£5/14/4 per cent.
The Loan is issued by the Commonwealth Government on behalf of the Govern-
ments of the Commonwealth and the States.
Subscriptions may be paid in full at the time of application, or by instalments—
the last of which is payable on February 3, 1930.
Banks will not charge exchange on cheques for payments into the Loan.
Interest will be paid from the date of lodgment of moneys.
Bonds, payable to bearer, or Stock may be purchased. Bonds will be issued for
£lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO or £lOOO. Stock will be inscribed for £lOO and multiples of
£lO above £lOO.
Interest will be subject to Commonwealth Income Tax, but free of all State Income
Taxes.
Trustees are authorised to invest in the Loan.
Applications may be lodged at any Bank, State Savings Bank, Money Order Post
Office or with any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
The Loan will be closed not later than Monday, December 16, 1929, the Treasurer
reserving the right to close the Loan at any time before that date and to refuse
subscriptions.
Commonwealth Treasury,
November 7, 1929.
EDWARD G. THEODORE,
Treasurer.
Merry Christmas
by ARTHUR GROOM
ILLUS'TBATED BY HAPPY J. WEXTON
Synopsis : Sandy Jackson, tired of
looking for work and utterly broke in
Brisbane, decides to get back to fami-
liar surroundings, as far west as
oossible. Pratten, commercial traveller,
refuses him a lift in Queen-street, and
Sandy crawls into the small space in
the back of the car. He is undis-
covered, and the car, which Pratten
is not used to driving, starts out for
Toowoomba. On the way Sandy, get-
ting badly bumped about, yells out to
try to stop the car, but though Pratten,
who has picked up an acquaintance,
thinks he hears something, he
keeps on, until, taking a corner too
sharply, he crashes into an embank-
ment. Sandy, semi-conscious, is dis-
coiwred, and the acquaintance having
had enough of Pratten’s driving for one
day, Sandy induces the commercial to
take him icith him, on condition that
he will look after the car amd sleep
in it at night. On the first night a
drunk comes to the car, and Sandy
engineers him out of two bottles of
lager and a bottle of rum. Next morn-
ing Pratten is annoyed to find his car
littered with empty bottles and mut-
ton bones, but they go on to Cloncurry,
where Sandy meets his old friend Jim
Walters, and accepts a job to go with
him to Boolgooroo station,
CHAPTER VII.
On the Road to Boolgooroo.
WHEN Jim Walters woke in the morn-
ing he was alone. He rose and
shook himself, then scrutinised the
steep bank of the gully down which he
had apparently rolled sometime during
the night. A strip of his khaki shirt hung
from a small root a few feet above. He
grinned guiltily.
There was a cool nip in the air. Jim
Walters felt heavy and thirsty. The town-
ship lay in a hollow a mile below, and it
was almost sunrise.
With a grunt of disgust he climbed from
tlm gully and commenced to circle the
town towards the camp. Half an hour
later he reached his objective. His boots
were full of sand and his temper was rather
short.
Sandy Jackson stood before a small fire.
He was watching something cooking.
“Hullo,” he said as he turned around.
“Where you been?”
“Where did you get that hat?” Jim"
Walters asked quickly. “It’s an abomina-
tion.”
Sandy chortled. He had not had his hair
cut; but he had scored a hat from some
mysterious source. It was a woman’s,
cloche pattern, and was jambed tight on
his head.
(( “One hat’s as good as another,” he said;
“but where did you get to last night?”
“Where did you get to?”
“Me? I woke up the other side of the
town—about four o’clock this mornin’, and
I came back here. Where was you?—you
can’t tell me straight out!”
Jim Walters twisted quickly around.
“Shut up!” he snapped. “Cook a feed;
I’ll go and get the horses.”
He turned to go.
“I got a bottle of rum,” Sandy called
after him. “But you ain’t to ask me where
I found it!”
“You have?” Jim Walters
retraced his footsteps. His
face showed the light of
expectation. Suddenly he
paused, frowned, and passed
an unsteady hand across his forehead.
“No, I don’t want any of the rubbish,”
he exploded. “Shove it away to blazes
out of my sight.”
A few seconds later he disappeared behind
a great leaning coolabah-tree.
Jim Walters and Sandy Jackson struck
out along the road to Boolgooroo an hour
after sunrise. Sandy had stuck a mottled
eagle’s feather in his cloche hat and rode
Jim Walters’s heavy bay mare. He
resembled a monkey on a beer barrel.
“Close up two hundred mile to go,” he
said cheerfully. “How many days will that
take Us, James, me lad?”
“Four, Sonny.”
“Hell!” Sandy Jackson exclaimed. “Good
job we’ve got a couple of spares, ain’t it?”
Then he commenced to sing in a quaint
jerky fashion:—
“I’m off to Boolgooroo, Boolgooroo,
0 doodle-oodle-oodle-oo!
Dash an’ damn an’ blast!
This nag o’ mine won’t last
From here to Boolgooroo, Boolgooroo.”
“You’ll have to make her last,” Jim
Walters warned him, “or you’ll walk.”
During two days they rode into the west,
until they were well past the Duchess, a
small mining town. Sandy seemed to
have grown tired of talking to Jim Walters
and talked to the old bay mare instead.
“You know, Baysie,” he confided to her
once, “if you was a two-legged woman I
could love you fit to marry you—an’ give
you half me wages.”
Their route lay a little along Mouna
Creek, then over the Georgina River. They
were to follow the river within a few miles.
The country was mostly flat and open,
with timber at intervals. At midday Baysie
snorted and shied well to one side.
“Whoa, ole steed!” Sandy called re-
assuringly. “Don’t get overheated. What’s
wrong with the works?”
The mare trembled and snorted. Sud-
denly she twisted round and commenced to
pig-root.
Sandy swore, scrambled, screeched and
held on like a limpet. The mare pranced
in little circles, and then stopped to regain
breath. One of the packhorses also be-
came affected.
“What happened?” Sandy shouted and
kicked Baysie viciously.
Jim Walters pointed with his whip handle
to a slight rise half a mile to the west
where a string of camels were striding in
smooth, slimy fashion out across the plain.
“What ho!” Sandy shouted. “Hinvasion
of Harabs!”
“I’ve more or less trained the other
horses to camels,” Jim Walters explained,
“but I’m afraid you’ll have to teach Baysie
about them yourself.”
“Camels!” Sandy shouted while Baysie
rocked a little. “They 'look to me like a
lot of creamy cats, with their backs up,
learnin’ to skate!”
Jim Walters continued to ride towards
the deformed beasts. The packhorses showed
signs of nervousness and stood still at
intervals. Sandy’s mare snorted and
sweated in fright; but Sandy managed to
force her along the track.
Forty-odd camels made up the train; and
four Afghans had charge of them. They
drove slowly on to camp just before sun-
down, and Jim Walters and Sandy Jackson
made camp on the same almost dry water-
hole and within a hundred yards.
Rama Kh&n looked like an ugly dream,
from the top of his turbanned head to his
bare brown feet. His views of life were
swamped mostly with camel, provisions and
knick-knack bargains. He vehemently
bought and sold his goods, and his opinion
of a man who came, talked, and did not
buy any goods was harsh—very harsh and
very lurid. Every year he loaded up from
forty to fifty camels at the railhead at
Dajarra, and, with three or four country-
men, tackled the long, desolate journey into
the farthest stretches of the Northern Terri-
tory.
“I’m goin’ to have a conf’rence with
these birds,” Sandy announced a little after
sundown. “They’re better than a circus.
They sling all their limbs about ’em when
they yap. Cornin’?”
Jim Walters nodded, and over the dry,
dusty soil they approached the camp of
the Afghans. Rama Khan rose quickly and
bowed quaintly. His face was solemn.
“You come for buy?” he asked.
“We’re broke,” Jim Walters announced.
“Ah, man broke no good for business.”
For Rama Khan that disposed of the matter.
He had no further use for his visitors.
Jim Walters glanced around. Three other
Afghans sat solemnly beside a large camel-
pack, and regarded him silently. A goat
chewed lazily at an indescribable article. A
black cat purred on the goat’s back. Three
fowls roosted in a low bush and a pet drake
MR. HINTON.
squatted silently before a nondescript heap
of loading. The twilight cast a peaceful
glamor over everything.
A small peaked cap on the drake’s head
brought a smile to Walters’s hard face.
“Some drake—that one,” he said, to break
the silence.
“His mudder good duck, too; his fadder
we don’ know,” Rama Khan answered, and
at once returned to silence.
“What’s the idea of the little bonnet?”
“Make sun stop out,” Rama answered,
but with no friendliness. “Sun strong now
drought country. Sunstroke kill quick.”
“Do you make him walk?” Jim Walters
asked.
“No, he ride for cow camel, with pussy-
cat and Higgy.”
“Who’s Higgy, Mister?” Sandy inter-
vened.
“Billy-goat for milka—you know, boss—
pull—pull!” Rama Khan’s dark hands
moved up and down in milking action.
Then he became surly and silent again.
“What’s the matter with you, Mister
blinkin’ Harab?” Sandy asked loudly.
“Eaten the wrong end of a sausage, or
what?”
“Don’ unnerstand.”
“Don’t understand! Hell, you’re standin’
there like petrified treacle. Ain’t you got
nothin’ to say bar answerin’ questions?
How’s the flamin’ weather? Are we goin’
to have any rain? Are you married,
Mister? Got any. kids? How many?
What models? Christians or dromedaries?
For Gawd’s sake, say somethin’ or sit down
an’ die!”
“You have—no money—no shillin’ for
business?” Rama Khan replied slowly. His
face was curiously set.
Sandy spat viciously. “AH you think of
—money! All you want is money to go
back to Haraby an’ buy up a lot of girls.
You old harem-keeper!”
Rama Khan stepped forward. He appeared
angry. He commenced to talk volubly and
to gesticulate to his countrymen, who ges-
ticulated back excitedly.
“Come on, Sandy, you’ll only cause
trouble.” Jim Walters pulled Sandy’s arm.
They commenced to walk away.
“Tie that old duck up—tie his muddler
up—tie his fadder up!” Sandy shouted back..
“An’ put yer flamin’ chooks in yer nightie
when you go to bed.”
Rama Khan swore back unintelligibly ;and
threatened wildly.
“Doodle-oodle-oo!” Sandy shouted..
“Hinky-pinky-parley-voo—that’s better than
you can do!”
The stars were still shining when Jim
Walters felt himself jolted back to reality..
“What’s the joke?” he asked.
“Don’t like campin’ near these here
Harabs,” Sandy declared breathlessly,
“Their camels have got our nags too fidgety .
Breakfast is ready, an’ the nags is all.
packed up an’ ready for the road,’”’
Jim Walters jumped to his feet and
glanced around. In the dim grey light of
dawn he could see his few horses standing
in a group, just as Sandy had declared.
The Afghans’ camp was still and silent. No
camels could be seen. Somehow in the
soft light the effect of the packs lying
ready for the road gave an impression of
a foreign land.
Within half an hour Jim Walters and
Sandy Jackson were again on the way to
Boolgooroo. Little more than sixty miles
lay ahead.
“This country is getting very bare ” Jim
Walters observed, “and I think it will be
worse before we have any rain”
“It’ll pay us to try an’ get there today/*
Sandy declared. “The nags had hardly
anythin’ to eat last night. Anyway, I’ll fee
flamin’ glad to be miles away from them
Hftr&bs
“Why?” Jim Walters looked direct at
Sandy, and as he looked he saw beyond
and received a severe shock.
The head of the Afghans’ drake poked
out of one of the saddle-bags on the Mack
pack mare.
“Where did that duck come from?” Jim
Walters asked. “Is that why you wanted
to get away so early?”
For answer Sandy rode up beside the
packhorse and poked the bird’s head down
out of sight.
“Three chooks in the other bag,” he said
proudly. “I’ll teach them brown beggars to
talk nothin’ but business.”
The chooks grew troublesome before any
great distance was covered. The heat almost
frenzied them. One managed to get free,
fell to the ground and squawked off across
the parched plain. Sandy flew after it on
horseback, almost ran the bird down, and
succeeded in chasing it into the only hollow
log for many miles around.
(Continued on page 51.)


MEET WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
value in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner «
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive tariff, £4/4/- weekly.
Special quotations for sporting bodies, etc. Situated
right opposite Spencer Street Station, no taxi fares;
railway porter carries baggage across if necessary.
Please write for detailed tariff card. Carlyon’s
Hotel is sufficient address.
i 1 'h'i
L ku
7 .v
r
V
V
Food
Her*. Trad* Mar*.
A Baby
in your house?
Nursing Mothers who take
Benger’s Food find it of
greatest advantage to the
infant and to themselves.
When baby is ready to
wean, begin with Benger s
Food in turn with the
breast.
Write for booklet to : —BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
c iVest
am
ef*
FOR MARKING LINEN
Saves a
“mix up”
in the
■wash
r»jir
n AM Els
Any name
woven
in fast
colors
“A Few Stitches and they’re on”
K.S.Talboh
PRICES
12 do;, Yb
Actual Size Style No. 2
Sold by all leading Drapers!
Write for Pattern Sheet to
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.'
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond,'-
Melbourne.
Melbourne
cHATTER
Gee-gees drew a fair-sized crowd to Caul-
field on Saturday, but Society wasn’t very
well represented and there wasn’t much of
a display of fine raiment. Weather conditions
vacillated between ultra-dry and rain, and
after promising us a fine week-end meteoro-
logist Hunt sent out an eleventh-hour warn-
ing that rain-coats and umbrellas might be
required, which put a damper on the dress
parade. The cool shade of the trees in the
bird-cage and on the lawns at the back or
the stands was much sought after, and many
there were who shunned the betting-ring,
after one or two unfortunate experiences,
to sit beneath the oaks and listen to the
band. In the committee ladies’ box, Mrs.
Munro Kerr, in a cool-looking pale green
figured frock with a Tuscan bat. had with
her James Grice’s lady and Mrs. Claude
Grice. Mrs. E. M. Pearce was there, all in
pale grey, and Mrs. T. A. Tabart mingled in
her apparel navy-hlue georgette and beige
chiffon. Mrs. Norman Brookes sported
floral-patterned white chiffon, her straw hat
being cherry-red. Pixie Tabart blended three
shades of fawn in her frock and millinery,
and Valerie Purves chose black and white.
Mrs. Rogers Thomson and daughter Katli
leen, Mrs. Percy Blackbourn, Mrs. Barry
Thomson, Ada Reeve, a study in black and
white, and Marjorie Ivimpton, in a lovely
flowered chiffon gown, were some of the
feminine race-goers.
The G.-G. was among the folk who had
their first glimpse of the Williamstown R. C.
course at this year’s Cup meeting. His
Ex. was pleasantly surprised, and said he
was sorry he wouldn’t be in Australia for
next year’s gathering. The club, under the
direction of secretary J. F. Nagle, is making
a bid for a share of the popularity enjoyed
by Flemirigton, Caulfield and Moonee Valley.
The course is an oasis in a wilderness of
sheepyards and factories, and comprises 176
acres fronting the bay, laid out in green
lawns flanked by gold-tipped cypress-trees
and glorified by beds of flowers. Though local
pessimists declared that roses would not grow
there, secretary Nagle planted 200, all of
which struck healthily, and on Cup Day
the blooms shared admiration with the gor-
geous stocks, pansies and other seasonable
flowers. At the back of the stand a fine
lawn has been created in the last six months,
and here small summer-houses will be erected
for those who like to make a picnic of their
race-going.
The club dates its history from 1868, when
some Williamstown sports assembled at the
Steampacket Hotel to lay the foundations,
and the first properly-organised race meeting
was held in 1871. The Cup first figured on
the card in 1888, Avhen the stakes were £3s* >
The £2OOO mark was reached in 1913, and
this year A. T. Creswick, owner of Cimbrian,
collected £2500 with the trophy. There has
been a lot of trouble with floods, and the
big inundation of 1919 made so clean a
sweep that for a year the club’s meetings
were held at Caulfield and Moonee Valley.
A cyclone levelled the grandstand in 1876.
Another handicap has been the horrible con-
dition of the road to the course, the mainten-
ance of which thoroughfare seemed to be
no shire’s business, but within the last few
months the club has taken the job in hand
and made the rough places smooth, and there
was a 50 per cent, increase in the number
of parked cars on Cup Day. Many train-
ing stables were located in these parts in the
early days, including those of the late C. B.
Fisher and E. de Mestre. C. F. Orr, the
present vice-chairman and treasurer of the
club, has been on the committee since 1871,
and has filled the offices of president and
secretary. A. Fredman, a member of the
committee, dates his period of service back
to 1876. Secretary Nagle, who came from
Albury 18 months ago, being appointed on
the death of Harry Hosier, is the baby of
the club’s official personnel. Dr. A. E. Syme,
known in the racing world as S. A. Rawdon,
is the chairman.
The ball on the Australia was a brilliant
finish to the Cup-week whirl. Four hundred
guests gyrated on the broad quarter-deck
in the shadow of the big guns. So cleverly
had the men of the Navy spread tarpaulins
and bunting over the Customs section of the.
pier that it was a puzzle to find where the
wharf ended and the warship began. Supper
was spread on the pier enclosure, and there
were flag- and tree-cjecorated sitting-out
corners as well. In the ship was an array
of red and' white bunting with lines of
Chinese lanterns. Light refreshment was
hidden within a bower of palms, fairy bam-
boo and cream roses. A fine example of the
florist’s art was the white ensign, picked out
in arum ahd red lilies.
Rear-Admiral Evans had a dinner party
aboard, among his guests being Lady Stone-
haven, whose draped almond-green gown bore
a shower of rhinestones. Mrs. Evans’s white
lace frock was worn with red satin shoes.
Rear-Admiral Kerr was accompanied by his
wife, wearing lace of the hue of cuie au lait.
The Minister for Defence, Mr. Green, and
his daughter were guests at dinner. Mayor
Luxton was one of the dancers, and Mrs.
Luxton was there too, in a flounced frock
of rose-red georgette. Mrs. Norman Brookes
chose an all-white gown, having a long coat
bordered with white fox fur. Mrs. Guy
Smith sported glittering heels beneath a
black tulle robe. Mrs. E. M. Pearce’s frock
was dull gold lace, and Mrs. Hudson East-
wood sparkled in opalescent sequins upon
a white gown. Vera de Bavay struck a
Grecian note in her long green robe with its
deep cape bordered with gold. Dorothea
Collins, of Bananaland, was in nutmeg-brown
georgette, and Elaine de Chair, from Sydney's
Government House, wore black taffeta. Louise
Moran was in pale green made in bustle
mode, and her sister Elizabeth’s pale pink
taffeta and georgette model had applique in
crystal outlined leaves in pastel shades. The
influence of the movies upon the younger
masculine mind (not of the Navy) was
evidenced in a plentiful display of what
an older generation used to call louse-ladders
—the abbreviated whiskers that adorn bull-
fighters and other Spanish persons.
Beneath the soft glow of golden-hued lights
at the Wattle on Friday night, bridge was
played to benefit the Eye and Ear Hospital.
Mrs. A. T. Ham, proprietress of the Wattle,
who lent the premises and provided supper,
wore cherry-red with sparkling embroidery.
She was aided by her two sons, her daughter-
in-law, Mrs. ,T. Ham, and her staff of a hun-
dred. A jazz orchestra made a murmurous
accompaniment in the distance, and there
were raffles and a lucky balloon which
entitled its capturer to a free sea-trip to
Sydney. The affair was organised by the
Central and Brighton auxiliaries under
president Mrs. Alwyn Valentine, in beaded
mauve gown. Dorothy Anderson, in lapis
lazuli-toned georgette, was hon. sec., and
Mrs. Archie Micliaelis, wearing draperies of
burgundy hue, held the purse. C. W. Conni-
bere inspired the workers to excel themselves
by offering to add ten per cent, to the
proceeds.
Dorothy May Mason, pictured here by
Ruskin, started off this month for her future
home on a Rhodesian farm two thousand
miles from
Durban. She
will be mar-
ried on Dec. 2,
the date of her
arrival, to R.
F. Wagner, an
American. She
met her future
husband dur-
ing a recent
visit to the
IJ.S.A. with
he r mother.
Miss Mason is
the only daugh-
ter of Mrs. J.
11. Daymond,
of Greensbor-
ough, and of
the late E. J.
Mason, a pro-
minent figure
in Westralian
public affairs.
Mrs. Daymond gave a reception at the
Heidelberg Masonic Hall, to allow friends
an opportunity of offering their congrats,
in advance.
The State Governor and Lady Somers, with
daughter Elizabeth, were among the enthu-
siasts who spent Friday afternoon at the
M.C.G. to see the opening of the cricket
match, England v. Victoria. The giant of
the English team, F. Barratt, -and the
diminutive W. L. Cornford were a source of
joy to the barrackers, and as the players took
no umbrage but grinned appreciatively they
at once became popular. Duleepsinhji (other-
wise Smith), Prince Ranji’s relative, was
another wdio won the crowd’s affection. The
cricket wasn’t exactly thrilling, but the day
wrns heavenly and the good humor in the
air infectious.
Rain spoilt the last hour or so of the
garden party of the Old Collegians’ Associa-
tion of the P.L.C. at the school on Saturday.
The lawn, carefully guarded for days, was
like a green velvet carpet, but there was but
little flaunting of dainty frocks thereon
Beneath the two large elms a few people
partook of tea in comparative comfort, and
stray rain-drops pattered through the foliage
on to the string orchestra. The verandahs,
where there was more tea, were snug and
dry. Between showers a tennis match, past
v. present students, proved that youth will
be servod. The president of the 0.C.A., Mrs
I. H. Moss, in magpie raiment and holding
a presentation posy of red roses, extended
the greeting hand, supporting her being
Principal Gray and Mrs. Gray, she in
patterned sapphire-blue chiffon topped by a
black hat. Essie Mollison was in the group.
Among the visitors were Dr. Borland, the
Moderator-elect, Uni. Chancellor MacFar-
land and Mrs. J. P. Bainbridge. Mrs.
A. L. Abbott, hon. sec. of the 0.C.A., and
Ann Fortune, of the O.C.A. Club, were
the chief organisers. As Mrs. Moss is depart-
ing early next year for yet another overseas
jaunt, she was farewelled by Mr. Gray,
and responded with thanks and a sketch of
her plans for the tour. Guests viewed the
five new class-rooms with much approval.
Though she had not been long in London,
where she is continuing her vocal studies
under Mr.
Green baum,
Ethel For -
shaw, pi c -
tured here by
Rembr andU
was chosen as
one of the
singers at a
Toe II cere-
mony attended
by Royalty at
the Albert
II a 11 this
month. Horace
Stevens was
one of the
assisting ar-
tists. A daugii-
ter of the C. E. Forshaws,. of Elwood,
Miss Forsliaw was a Uni. Con. student,
and as a pupil of Mr. Sobell her soprano
voice was heard at several concerts here.
Now that Cup week is over one can sit
down quietly and analyse recollections of
the dressing. A feature that sticks in the
mind was the choice by a few tasteful souls
of black hats of dull straw, having wide
brims and trimmed with shiny black wings—
smartest and most elegant millinery in a
whole sea of felts and straws of every
imaginable color. In the matter of frocks,
which ran the gamut of wallpaper-pat-
terned transparent materials, filmy lace,
figured silks and ensemble suits, the Chat-
terer gives fh'st place to lace, when well
cut; with coat and blending frock beneath
a short , head away, second. In la.ee, beige
tonings took precedence, and for ensembles
navy blue mixed with white or fawn was
most in favor. The chiffons and other
diaphanous materials cut with floating bits
looked their, best only when the sun shone
and the thermometer said “Excelsior !”• When
the breeze was from a cool quarter they
lost much, of their charm. The ups and
downs and ins and outs of Cup-time weather
clinched home the stern lesson that the Mel-
bourne woman and the fair stranger within
our gates daren’t be without a gown that has
a coat to match.
Grammar School Chapel was the forge
where matrimonial links were welded between
Ella, only daughter of Mrs. E. Kendall, of
Mt. Evelyn, and Wilbur, eldest son of Dr. and
Mrs. F. Ilobill Cole, of Collins-street. The
bride’s gown was of ivory satin, and white
tulle floated from beneath her veil of century-
old Honiton lace to make the train. Her
one attendant’s frock had a Parisian touch
in its blending of powder-blue and pink, and
pink roses clung to the under-brim of a large
blue hat. Congratulations were offered at
the Windsor.
Unusual but most attractive was the wed-
ding finery chosen by Cecilia Mary Confoy
when she became Mrs. Alexander R. Strike.
H’er gown of faille was of the shade known
as chandelle, which is a dark biscuit tint.
A gold lace veil mounted on white tulle,
some orange buds and a bouquet of water-
lilies were accessories. A retinue of atten-
dants —four ’maids, three wee girls and a
small page—made harmony in apricot georg-
ette and taffeta. The bride’s parents, the
T Confoys, of Caulfield, entertained at
No. 9.
The Chauvel lady was deputed to say
“Thank you” to the Wirth Brothers and
their performers for inviting members of the
Friendly Unions of Soldiers and Sailors
Wives and Mothers (not forgetting the kids)
to a free matinee. For 12 or 13 years this has
been an annual treat, and the shrieks of joy
from an audience in which children predomi-
nate testify how keenly it is appreciated.
Lady Stonehaven was there on Thursday
with her two small daughters Ava and
Ariel, and her Ex., who received a bouquet
of red roses and lilies of the valley, con-
gratulated Mr. G. Wirth upon the show.
In the flag-draped box with her Ex. wore
Mrs. Munro Kerr, the new president of the
F U S.W.M., Mrs. Goble and her two boys,
Mrs. L. S. Bracegirdle and the lion. sec.
of the F. U. of Soldiers’ Wives and Mothers,
Mrs N. Musther, who was given a posy.
The opening of a shipment of toys has
been made the excuse for a very early
appearance of Santa Claus in a Bourke-
street emporium. Judging by the hordes, of
children who were able to participate in the
first rush to shake the genial old gentle-
man’s hand, the truant inspector must be
holidaying. When the youngsters weary of
gazing upon the bewildering array of play-
things that move mechanically, there are
merry-go-rounds, flying boats and a "’nph;
zoo of huge animals electrically controlled
for them to visit, also a troupe of monkeys
and a jazz band of mechanical nigger min-
strels. There are aeroplanes of most modern
design, miniatures of Segrave’s racing
motor-car and torpedoes and other munitions
of war. Telephones and even television
apparatus are represented. Woollen and soft
toys have reached such perfection that one
strokes a life-size Persian cat expecting to
hear it purr. Beach toys have gone far
beyond the bucket-and-spade stage, and there
are now animals and carts on big wheels
and things that will float. Puzzles and
games follow the trend of the moment.
You may look in vain for the pre-war
doll with its pretty wax face, real hair and
eyebrows, and innocent glass eyes. The
doll of to-day is a sophisticated-looking
person whose expression bepseaks a past
of cocktails and cigarettes. Even the sup-
posedly baby dolls have a grown-up air, but
that’s shared by the real babies these days.
Mrs. Ida Standley, of South Australia, was
the only woman to be decorated at the inves-
titure by Lord Stonehaven at Government
House. She received an 0.8. E. for her 15
years of child-welfare work at Alice Springs;
she was founder and matron of the home
there for half-castes. During her short stay
in Melbourne Mrs. Standley was the guest
of artist Jessie Traill at Sandringham.
Mrs. H’. J. Robertson, who was president
of the Women’s Auto Club, now merged with
the R.A.C., has not permitted the amalgama-
tion to stay her hospitable hand. Wearing a
pale green gown, navy coat and Bangkok
straw hat, she gathered numerous old
associates and some new ones about the
afternoon-tea tray at the R.A.C. headquarters
last week. Mrs. A. Harston, wife of the
R.A.C. president, was a guest, and male
vocalists and instrumentalists were heard in
lulls of feminine chatter.
Senator R. D. Elliott, who appreciates
and buys good pictures, was induced by E.
Murray Fuller to say the foreword for a
show of oils and water-colors by contem-
porary British painters at the V.A.S. Gal-
leries, Albert-street. Orpcn’s “Resting on
the Somme, 1918,” the highest-priced
exhibit, is notable for the vivid pink and
white complexions of the war-wearied troops.
They look a,s if they had just looted a soap-
factory. Only three women painters are
represented, foremost among them Dame
Laura Knight, who show's oils, water-colors
and etchings. The Maudsley lady, Mrs. R.
D. Elliott, Mrs. E. H. Shackell and her
daughter Aimee and the Fritz Harts were
in the private-view throng, also Dr. S. A.
Ewing, who presented some pictures from his
collection to Melbourne Grammar School
some time ago.
For our State elections only one woman
has been nominated. She is Mrs. Angela
Booth, wife of Dr. James Booth; she has
done useful work as a councillor of the
shire of Warrandyte for four years, and has
interested herself in social and welfare prob-
lems. As an unendorsed Nationalist can-
didate she will contest the Brighton seat.
It was in this electorate that Mrs. Eleanor
Glencross gave Attorney-General lan Mac-
farlan a close run in the by-election of last
April, following the death of O. R. Snow-
ball, being defeated by only 530 votes.
A feature of the drowning accident in
which three Grammar School boys lost their
lives was the splendid manner in which the
Navy aided in the search for the lads, who
were clinging to a capsized boat. The
destroyer Anzac and two ’planes were ordered
out by the. Admiral, motor-boats having
earlier started on the fruitless quest. It was
the flying-boat Venus, from Point Cook, that
later discovered the boat. Of five boys—
Andrew Joshua, Lindsay Gordon Cuming,
Richard Henry Lewis, James Wilson and
Douglas Brown —who had represented
Bromley in the inter-liouse regatta a day or
two before, only Wilson and Brown are left.
The Navy, so far as the lower decks are
concerned, anyhow, still cherishes seafaring
superstitions, There wasn’t a cheery twinkle
aboard the Australia when she left this
port. The ship’s mascot, a Siamese, cat that
was everyone’s pet, took ill and, despite skilled
attention, passed over to that bourne from
which even cats cannot return. Then Com-
mander Duke went on the sick list, delaying
the departure, which finally happened on
the thirteenth of the month. So the worst
is feared.
The tragic death of O. L. MacDonald at
Cliveden Mansions caused a profound sen-
sation. The owner of Revenue. Wakeful and
Night Watch married a daughter of A. H.
Massina, the printer and publisher. He had
the reputation of being Melbourne’s best-
dressed follower of racing.
Bags modelled in book shape are our
latest temptation. A title is given to each
purporting to match the owner's trend of
thought. Some bear quite' naughty names;
others, resembling prayer-books, suggest
pious contents. Opened they all reveal a
cigarette-case and a make-up set.


DRUMMOND’S EXCLUSIVE JEWELLERY
Magnificent Diamond and Sapphire Brooch, set in
Platinum,
£375
Fine Pearl and Diamond Brooch,
£BO.
Diamond Bar Brooch, set in Platinum,
£55
Diamond Bow Brooch,
£l5.
Diamond Ring,
with Diamond-set
Shoulders,
£35
Circle Ring, set
with 25 Brilliant-
cut Diamonds. Best
value in Australia,
£lB
Calibre-cut Dia-
mond, with Dia-
mond-set shoulders,
£BO
Diamond Ring,
set in Pure Plati-
Magnificent Dia-
mond Ring, with
Diamond-set
Shoulders,
£250
Diamond Ring,
set in Platinum,
£35
Calibre-cut Dia-
mond with Baton-
cut Diamonds, set
in shoulders,
£l2O
(38^1*®
Two-Diamond Ring,
with Diamonds set
on shoulders,
£35
đ
Lady’s Pure Platinum Wristlet Watch,
set with finest white diamonds; highest-
grade fully-jewelled lever movement,
£lOO
The Platinum Wristlet Watch illustrated has
a diamond-set fly-up protector over the dial,
operated by pressure. The 18-jewel lever
movement is the production of the famous
“Longines” Watch Factory, and is fully
guaranteed by Drummonds.
Illustrated Watch Catalogue on application.
®Hm. Dt ummonb & Co.
JEWELLERS,
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
ii
' v'
!; /
< TheSSupreme / / Car 2
& //,/x
N%
The more cars you have driven the more you will
appreciate a Sunbeam. Every feature functions with
that perfect harmony which is the result of the utmost
care at every stage of construction.
Sunbeam cars for the Australian market are specially
built with the necessary ground clearance, springing
and cooling to ensure perfect performance on the
roughest roads and tracks and in most tropical heat.
Complete catalogue will be sent on application to any of our
Authorised Dealers or to the Company s address as below.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
Export Dept.: 12 Princess Street, Hanover Square, London,
W. 1, England.
Cables: “SUBEAMOCO,” London.
Head Office and Works: Wolverhampton, England.
AUTHORISED DEALERS:
SYDNEY:
William, Hill & Cameron, Ltd.,
91-97 Flinders Street.
PERTH:
Arthur Bales, Ltd.,
307-371 Murray Street.
MELBOURNE:
The All British Motor Co. (Pty.),
Ltd.,
104-106 Russell Street.
ADELAIDE:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.
69 Waymouth Street.
Sunbeam
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Quiet —Restful—Cool —Open to the Summer Sea Breezes. With Private Beach and Amphitheatre
Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds and Garage
Accommodation.
Tariff from guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines).
AAAAAM
PAI&t
Graham-Paige offers a variety of body
types, including Roadsters, Cabriolets,
Coupes and Sport Phaetons, on five chassis,
in sixes and eights at a wide range of prices.
Honest Performance
The new Graham-Paige Model 615 merits
the consideration of every motor-car buyer
who is interested in automotive merchandise
of exceptional value. The Model 615 is
noteworthy for its extra size, extra sturdi-
ness and extra quality, all contributing to
its honest, reliable performance.
[Model 615 Five'Passenger, Sedan
J iJfrdlJ&k $
CLncS
CL/ms*
Graham-Paige Distributors , Australia and Neu) Zealand :
NEW SOUTH WALES ..
VICTORIA
SOUTH AUSTRALIA ..
W. H. LOBER & CO., LTD.
WALTER WHITBOURN PTY., LTD.
. . MAUGHAN THIEM MOTOR CO., LTD.
WEST AUSTRALIA ARTHUR BALES, LIMITED.
QUEENSLAND MOXON MOTORS, LTD.
TASMANIA TWIN-TOP MOTORS PTY., LTD.
NEW ZEALAND WRIGHT, STEPHENSON & CO., LTD.
&AAMAM-PAIGE


The COMMONWEALTH LIFE (Amalgamated)
ASSURANCES, LIMITED.
JAMES S. INCH, F.A.1.1., General Manager.
Authorised Capital - - - - £500,000
Paid-up Capital ------ £150,000
Annual Income Exceeds - -- -- -- -- -- £140,000
Payments to Policy-holders Exceed ----- £60,000
Every desirable form of Policy issued in the following departments:
.LIFE, ENDOWMENT, AND GUARANTEED BONUS POLICIES.
PERSONAL ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS, WITH NURSING AND HOSPITAL BENEr lIS.
INDUSTRIAL ASSURANCES.
All Ordinary Policies subject to Guaranteed Interim bonus.
E. H. HIGGS, Secretary.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
The Block, 424-30 George Street (between King and Market Streets), Sydney.
A
LEIPZIG SPRING FAIR (GERMANY).
Incorporating Great Engineering and Building Fairs.
BEGINS MARCH 2nd, 1930.
BUYERS GOING ABROAD must visit the- Leipzig Trade Fair, the
world’s largest Manufacturing, Industrial and Engineering Exposition.
Introductions arranged. Full information free on request to —•
A
Authorised Representatives: 0. N. KEPPEL, c/o Marcard Lund & Co., Box 585 D G.P.0., Melbourne.
LARS G. BRUNDAHL, 6 Dailey Street, Box 3127 P G.P.0., Sydney.
HAIR
0
O' 1
NEED
fj°
HERES
■umu -
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
Of age or worry, and in a woman, especb
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper. for—
&QjUm\S CMEXICAN)
KkUnui Stavn,
♦removes the grey *
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Stveet, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct Ci/6), 6d. being postage.
d
iS
m
i
\U lots?
She carries
GOUROCKI
QUALITY
ROPES & CANVAS &
AA
BIRKMYRE’S CLOTH
GOUROGK
ROPEWOKK
EXPORT CO.
LTD.
379 Kent-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Cha.rlotte-strept, Brisbane, Q.
Flindors-strpni, Melb nrne, Vie.
Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
*"* J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait,
HER MAJESTY’S: SHOW BOAT.
CRITERION: LOMBARDI, LTD.
PALACE:
J.C.W. WORLD’S ENTERTAINERS.
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
Trie World’s Best.
1 (L WIL LIAMSON, LTD.,
'*• MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
HOLD EVERYTHING.
|£l NG ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
WHOOPEE.
jyjE W COMEDY THEATRE,
LEON GORDON in
BREWSTER’S MILLIONS.
UOY T'S D E LUXE THEATRE,
° MELBOURNE.
See and Hear MARTON DOWNEY in
LUCKY IN LOVE.
All Talking and Singing.
See and Hear also JACK HOLT in
FATHER AND SON.
Public Notices.
LOUISE DOROTHEA CUMME
(Or Louise Dorothea Gordon).
TF LOUISE DOROTHEA CUMME (or
A Cummie or Gordon) communicates -with
undersigned she will hear something to her
advantage. Any person who can _ furnish
information concerning above isi also
requested to communicate. FIbHEK,
POWERS and JEFFRIES, A.M.P. Cham-
bers, King William Street, Adelaide.
ESTHER RANDALL, DECEASED.
'THE descendants of a sister of the late
A Miss Esther Randall (formerly of Quy,
in the County of Cambridge, England, who
died on the 18th February. 1929, intestate),
who might be interested in her estate are
requested to send their names and addresses
to the undersigned within three months from
this date. The sister in question (probably
named Newman) migrated to Australia many
years ago. Particulars showing relations
and relationship should accompany.
Dated this - lltli day of October, 1929.
FRANCIS & CO.. Solicitors,
Cambridge, England.
LIFE INSURANCE IS A NECESSITY!
It protects your dependants.
It provides for your old age.
It is a profitable investment.
It prevents sacrifice of property by
providing funds for probate duties.
To place your Life Assurance
to the best advantage
INSURE WITH
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Assets - - - £73,776,000.
Large Annual Bonuses.
INQUIRIES INVITED.
F. T. BRIDGES. Acting General Manager.
HEAD OFFICE: 37 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your fancy, write
to the Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISDANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Sociel Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Mrs. E. R. Reynolds, of Oakey, the owner
of Sandlet, won the Queensland Cup at
Ascot, to the joy of feminine racegoers. The
chairman of the Q.T.C. presented the golden
trophy to the lady, who was in brown and
gold floral crepe de Chine with a brown Baku
hat banded with ribbon. Mrs. J. 11. S.
Barnes (Canning Downs), Mrs. E. D. White
and Mrs. Isaac Moore were amongst those
who gave tea parties on the committee-room
verandah. Mrs. J. W. Blair wore navy
and mastic crepe de Chine, with a wide
brimmed mastic hat. Mrs. Godfrey Morgan
was in almond-green, with black Baku hat.
Navy and white floral georgette was worn
by Mrs. N. A. 11. Campbell with a grey
felt hat. Mrs. Kent ( Jondaryan) was in
black, white and coral figured crepe de
Chine with a mastic hat. Mrs. A. H. Wliit-
tingham wore beige with a black hat. Mrs.
M. 1,. Reading wore black and petal pink
ninon. Her daughter, Mrs. Freeborn John-
ston, from Westralia, chose cameo pink with
a pink straw hat. Enid Bell was in rose
beige with rose beige hat; Mrs. Gilbert.
Wilson, had a smart black frock with a
jade buckle: Ella O’Shea, was in beige crepe
de Chine, with a droop Baku hat and inist-
blue scarf; Beres Corrie wore sapphire-blue;
and Una Bell was in gold and navy.
Premier Moore opened the St. Paul’s C.
of E. fete at Cleveland. Mrs. Moore came
with him, and Joan Watts handed her n
basket of sweets, with a bouquet for Miss
King.
Lilies and meadowsweet decked the Schbol
of Arts Hall for a song afternoon given by
Lena Hammond’s pupils for the Children's
Hospital. Sand crepe de Chine and blue
soutaches adorned Miss Hammond, with r
small hat to tone. Mrs. Roy Parkinson was
amongst the singers.
For Mrs. Henrietta Irwill, who is visiting
Brisbane, the Philip Frankels gave a dinner
party at their New Farm home. White
daisies and pink gerberas decorated. Mrs.
Frankel was in powder-blue georgette. Mrs.
11. A. Goldman arranged a luncheon for Mrs.
Irwill at her home, the decorations being
of red roses and maidenhair. Little Miriam
Ravell presented a bouquet of carnations to.
Mrs. Irwill, who gave an address.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Members of the Minnawarra Choir put on
their party frocks for a welcome home in the
Karrakatta Club to their president, Mrs.
W H. Vincent. The principal guest shook
the tissue-paper from a Paris gown for the
occasion—a smoky-blue satin foulard cut
with flared skirt and scarf collar, and topped
with brimless black straw millinery. She
was handed a posy of rosebuds, sweet-peas
and love-in-the-mist. In the throng were
Mrs Herbert, Mrs. Anderson, Mrs. Garner,
Mrs. Noel Cuthbert, Mrs. Haywood, Mrs.
Rutter, Mrs. Frank Davies and Mrs. Church.
Eleanor Barker exchanged promises with
Norman Giles in St. Mary’s from a swirl ot
ivory ninon and a beautiful Brussels lace
veil. Minute frills reaching to the hem and
long, closely-fitting sleeves were features ot
the bridal gown. The four attendants
bride’s sister Jean, bridegroom’s sister Mar-
garet, Valmai Ross and Peggy Smith—-wore
primrose georgette made with swathed hip
lines and dipping peacock hems.. Bouquets
of yellow roses and primrose picture hats
were accessories.
Mrs. Alan Stubbs, from whom the smile
alongside radiates, has left Wodgiua, m the
North - West,
with her lius-
ban d, and
come to live in
Perth. T h e
Repertory
Club is smiling
happily at
their return,
for Mrs.
Stubbs, as Nell
Anketell, was
one of its
staunch cst
props. The
exile will be
welcomed back
to the fold at
a performance
of Noel Cow-
ard’s “Play-
fever,” with
Mrs. Stubbs as
Judith. Not
the least of the lady’s attractions is a
charmingly modulated speaking voice.
Education Minister Drew spoke the fore-
word to the annual show of the Society of
Arts in the Industrial Hall. Water-colors
predominate. Among the most arresting of
the oils are a portrait by Vlasio Zanalis
and W. P. Maston’s “Sunkissed Valley.”
Margaret Saunders and J. Barker are well
represented, and Rae McPherson shows a
charming pen-and-ink drawing, “Pleasure.”
Hetty Finley displays some miniature
plaques. In the art-crafty section Kitty
Armstrong’s Gesso designs and stained and
embossed leather, Miss Mengler’s poker
'embellishments, wild-flower designs on china
from Mrs. Swaine’s color-box, and youthful
Betty Halbert’s artistic and original treat-
ment of wood and leather are well to the fore.
One of our pioneers, Mrs. Mary Ann Lee,
passed away last week at Fremantle. She
was three times married. Her first husband
lost his life at sea in the ’fifties when he was
washed overboard betwen Albany and Fre-
mantle, and her second went down with the
Flying Foam. Mrs. Lee’s living descendants
number 79, including eight great-great-
grandchildren.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
After a long spell of wintry weather we
have suddenly burst into a glorious spring,
with flowers everywhere and trees in their
new leaves making splashes of emerald-green
in the squares and gardens. White wiugs
in the harbor show that the yachting season
has commenced, and the frequenters of the
mountain and National Park have said good-
bye to their skis, and are turning then-
attention to beaches and surf-boards.
Edith Hamilton, second daughter of the
Lindesay Clarks, of Derby, was tied to
Ronald Lewis, of Malvern (Vic.), Bishop
Hay making the splice. The bride’s array
was White chiffon embroidered in yellow
clover, with the fashionable big bow of
ring velvet, also in yellow, at the back,
falling into a long train. The veils —there
were two —w T ere of white tulle over yellow,
falling from a chaplet of orange blossom.
Bride’s sister Laura ’maided in white chiffon
worked in a design of cherries, with cerise
bow of ring velvet forming a train, and a
picture-hat of green straw. The newly-weds
will live in Singapore.
Misses E. Jenkins, N. Perkins, Butler and
Robey held an exhibition of handcraft at
the Town Hall. The hand weaving attracted
much attention, some of the dress pieces
and tablecloths being most attractive.
Scarves of camel’s hair and wool mixed make
delightful warmies for wear with tailored
suits in our nippy sea breezes. All sorts
of beautiful stitchery were to be seen on
another stall, and there were hand-painted
calendars, menu- and bridge-cards to help
solve the Christmas-gift * problem.
Mrs. Ronald Dick, who, with her son and
daughter, sails for a long trip to the Orient
and Europe this month, lias been enter-
tained at a round of farewell parties during
the last few weeks.
Mrs. E. A. Peacock, with daughter Mar-
garet and son Frank, who have been on a
trip to the U.S-A. for the last six months,
return to their home this month.
E. E. Unwin, head of the Friends’ High
School, pictured here, has just come back
from a trip to
the Cold Coun-
try, and has
brought his
sheaves with
him in the
shape of con-
tributions from
Friends who
have 1h e
spread of Edu-
cation in the
E mpir e a t
heart. While
abroad, Mr.
and Mrs. Un-
win made a
point of study-
ing the new
trend in Art,
especially dra-
matic art. At
the Bristol
Little Theatre,
where a new
play is put on every week, they saw some
arresting modern examples, and they also saw
the Devonshire Players. They found that vil-
lage community play-writing and -acting are
a regular feature of life in many rural dis-
tricts. Mr. Unwin has a show of his water-
colors in the Hodgkin Hall of the Friends'
School at present.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide,
Tattersall’s meeting at Victoria Park was
not such a big gathering as usual; many
racegoers had not returned from Melbourne,
and the cricket was a counter attraction.
J. C. Marshall (acting chairman) and his
wife entertained at luncheon and afternoon
tea. Mrs. Marshall was frocked in a black
and lime-green floral crepe de Chine, and her
hat was a wide-brimmed autumn-toned lace
straw. The smartest gown was worn by
Mrs. Fred Tennant, a French model in
lettuce-green and sand-colored marocain, with
a dead gold tissue hat. Colored shoes made
their appearance, not always matching the
costume.
The first match with the English cricketers
drew a large crowd to the Oval. The
play was disappointing from the men's point
of view, but the women didn't mind, as it
offered an opportunity for picnic luncheons
and afternoon teas and oceans of gossip.
After three days in the grandstand what
you don’t know about your neighbors
wouldn’t excite a grasshopper.
The re-election of Lud Mayor Lavington
Bonython for a third consecutive year is
very popular. The position nowadays makes
as large a demand upon the wife as the hus-
band, and p > woman has filled the role with
greater tact and energy than Mrs. Bonython.
Betty, the Bonythons’ eldest daughter, has
just announced her engagement to Keith
Wilson.
Mayoress Bonython invited guests to her
residence, St. Corantyn, East-terrace, to meet
Miss O’Urady and Mrs. Brassey. The recep-
tion-rooms were bowers of flowers, the
azealeas from the Mayor’s Mount Lofty
home being specially fine.
At the Palais Royal the cricket clubs
arranged a ball in honor of the visiting
Englishmen. Mr. and Mrs. H'. W. Hodgctts
did the honors and brought a party of
pretty girls with them. The visitors were
rather late in arriving at the Pally, as Dr.
Brian Swift and Carrol Symon entertained
them first at an Oxford and Cambridge dinner
party.
Toe H members organised a successful
bridge party to raise funds for furnishing
the club rooms. The League of Women
. Helpers' provided the decorations and supper.
When his Ex. and Lady Hore-Ruthyen
returned from Melbourne they brought with
them Captain and Mrs. R. L. Brassey and
Miss O’Grady, daughter of the Governor of
Tasmania.
Pretty Freda McGhee, well known to Syd-
ney’s Play box and Turret theatre audiences
ns an amateur actress of considerable talent
and versatility, is holidaying here and being
feted by various mus., lit. and dram. socs.
Telephone and tram fares are soaring, apd
Parliamentarians, who get free rides,, are
envied by all. The new tram service to
Glenelg has started, and other lines have to
help pay for it.


PUNCTU ALIJY
%e Essence of ‘'Business.
>%!
I
Omega
To be on time—at all times—
is one of the greatest attributes
to success in life. Start your
boy right Buy him an Omega
and teach him the value of
being on time!
He’ll soon learn it, if
he owns an Omega.
//
2
&
K
EXACT TIME FOR. LIFE
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.:
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N£ S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, thi3
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business,
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
,“Hey James!” he called. “Bring the axe!”
When Jim Walters drove the horses along-
side, Sandy seized the axe and cut the
sixteen-foot log in two; but alas, the chook
had retreated up into one of the eight-foot
halves.
“She oughter be killed on the spot,”
Sandy said in disgust. “She don’t deserve
to be killed reg’lar and cooked an ’eaten
’cording to rule and reg’latioii.” He com-
menced to chop at the log again.
“Damn all—Harabs—chooks —ducks—cats
—rats—camels —logs! Er-m, now I got you!”
The log parted and Sandy dropped to his
knees. He stretched a thin arm up and
tugged the frightened fowl back. Then he
looked keenly through the log.
“Nuh!” he said, shaking his head sadly
—“she didn’t lay nothin’, James. I thought
that might have been what she buzzed off for.”
They crossed the Georgina just before
midday. Its bed glistened dry and hot in
the' burning sun. Its few permanent water-
holes were reputed to be sinking fast. Rain
had not fallen in many places along its
great length for two years.
Jim Walters and Sandy halted at the edge
of the trees on the western bank, rested for
a few minutes, then mounted. They cut a
fence a mile farther on, tied it up again,
then rode on out across a great dry plain.
The Georgina River bent away for many,
miles, then back towards them in a dark
blur of mirage-tossed trees.
The heat of Hell seemed to concentrate
on the plain. The
drake poked its head
from the packbag
and gasped for
breath. One chook
died and was cast
away among dry
roots.
Sandy caught the
black pack mare,
tied a wet rag
around the drake’s
neck, and the
journey was con-
tinued again.
Crows flew high
up, became mingled
with a small army
of hawks. Awa' y
down south a low
belt of gidya fringed
the plain; but it
could only be seen
in a waving line of
mirage. To the
north-west the Geor-
gina seemed to twist
and squirm in the
heat like a great
dying serpent.
“Why don’t they
make all ladies’ hats
with balconies on
’em?” Sandy shouted
in agony, for the tip of his nose was being
slowly roasted. “Gawd—a quid for a pot
of beer! No! Two—three pots!” •
“And supposing I said, ‘Right, Sandy,
produce the quid!”’ Jim Walters snapped.
In answer Sandy slowly pulled two pound-
notes from a trouser-pocket. “Don’t ask
me where I found them, either,” he laughed,
and broke the laugh in the middle to slip
in a prodigious wink.
“Sandy, you should be in gaol. Where
did you get them?”
Sandy shrugged his shoulders disdain-
fully; and his coat stopped high up on his
neck.
“I was led into temptation,” he answered.
“People will go leavin’ their poultry an’
money about.”
Jim W T alters felt troubled. During the
many years he had been associated with
Sandy Jackson he had never before known
him to steal money. He had been “up” for
stealing almost everything, from a broken-
down draught-horse to handkerchiefs lifted
off a clothes-line; but Jim had thought him
as honest as the day where actual money
was concerned.
“Sandy, give me that money!” Jim
Walters ordered.
“Not on your life, James!”
Jim Walters rode closer. His face was set.
“Sandy, I want that money!”
Sandy tried to smile, but could not. His
features seemed paralysed. He gulped, took
out the two pounds again and handed them
over.
“Since you went to Brisbane you’ve be-
come a fool!” Walters’s voice was harsh.
He tore the two notes into little bits and
flung them out. “A joke’s a joke, Sandy;
but money never was a joke, no matter
how you take it.”
Sandy broke into a single exclamation;
then he fell behind.
They rode on in silence. The horses
showed increasing signs of heavy thirst. The
sun dropped low in the west, and, as it
went, the mirages commenced to fade
slowly away, though they still shimmered
and twisted the distant clumps of gidya
into weird shapes.
A timbered rise gradually shoved itself
up out of the bare monotony. An hour
later they topped it. Three miles below,
in the extremity of a sharp bend in the
Georgina, the Boolgooroo homestead
glistened before a glorious sunset.
“Hooray!” Sandy shouted hoarsely.
“Come on, James, me son! Kick ’er up—
we gotter have more steam!”
Jim Walters caught the spirit. He forgot
about that damned *money, and cantered
along behind the packhorses. The distance
down the long slope gradually lessened.
Still cantering, they passed through an open
gateway and down towards the homestead.
A black figure stood and watched them,
then turned slowly away. The familiar
buildings loomed up. A few more bushes
had grown, and a few more had been cut
down, that was all.
Before the station store a small, square
“Sandy Jackson stood before a small fire.”
horse-yard had been built for the use of
passing drovers and travellers. Sandy
turned the packhorses in through the gate
and dismounted behind them. Jim Walters
dismounted at the foot of the stairs, walked
up into the store.
“Mr. Hinton,” he called eagerly, “are you
there?”
A chair scraped inside and soft footsteps
sounded. Jim Walters leant expectantly
forward over the counter.
“Mr. Hinton,” he said firmly, “we’ve”
A girl of about twenty-one emerged
through the small doorway.
Jim Walters felt a queer tightness seize
his chest and a quick rush of blood thumped
violently at his head.
CHAPTER VIII.
Something New at Boolgooroo.
“You’re wanting something?” the girl
said levelly. Her voice was soft and
impressive.
“Jack Hinton” Jim Walters’s hands
wandered about vacantly. “Mr. Hinton
—where is he?”
“Down at the stockyards somewhere.
Down that way,” she pointed through a
dusty window-pane in the northern end of
the building. “Is there anything more' I
can do for you?”
“No, thanks—no, very much.” Jim Wal-
ters stammered and left the store. He ran
his fingers around the neck of his khaki
shirt. He commenced to walk away, ears
red, a thousand questions clamoring for
satisfaction.
“Hey—James, me lad, where the blazes
are you off to?” Sandy Jackson’s voice was
loud and penetrating.
Jim Walters stood still, and turned
around. He had walked away from the
store in entirely the wrong direction. Fifty
yards farther and he would have been
into the station waterhole.
“The lady says the yards is up there!”
Sandy continued to shout. “You ought to
know ’em well enough!”
“Hang!” Jim Walters muttered, and
commenced to cut across to the yards. The
darkening sunset was spreading golden and
deeper lights across the powdered ground.
He walked a furlong and looked back over
his shoulder. Sandy was talking to the girl
on the steps of the store, and they were
both looking his way. He strode quickly
on, conscious that he was being spoken of,
perhaps laughed over; and a peculiar sen-
sation between his shoulder-blades made
him want to hit something.
Mr. Hinton broke away from a group
of men who were leaving the stockyards.
He looked very grimy; he had been work-
ing late, drafting horses. Between seven
and eight hundred kicked pnd reared and
darted wildly in the large yards. Dust rose
up like a great dark halo.
“Well,” Hinton greeted warmly, “you
got here—eh?”
“Yes, we pushed along a bit.”
“Good! I didn’t beat you by much. Had
engine trouble this side of Dajarra. I came
around by the long road. Took three days
instead of one. Lord, but the country
looked bad the last hundred miles. It’s
worrying me more than I like to admit.
I onlv got here this morning. Where’s
Sandy?”
“He’s down at the store, talking to a
a I say, who’s the girl down there?”
The station-owner glanced up quickly.
“Oh, that’s Helen Delaney,” he answered
slowly. “Our new storekeeper. A niece of
the wife’s. Very capable girl.”
“Goodness!” Jim Walters was visibly sur-
prised. “And she’s doing a man’s job?”
“Yes, a Sydney University girl. One of
the new idea. The type that think they
should go flying round Australia and off to
the Poles, or swimming the English Chan-
nel. She argues that woman is generally
superior to man, and greatly superior in
special works. I don’t quite know what she
means by special works.”
“And does she live up to her ideas?” Jim
Walters asked.
“Well, no. All kick and talk like anew
colt. But quite harmless, Jim. Probably
she won’t take any notice of you, so doiFt
take out any insurance policies, Still, she s
quite a sport as far as girls go. Only about
twenty-two, and runs the store like it nevei
was run before. No drinking and gambling
there now, I tell you!”
“I should think not,” Jim Walters ex-
claimed emphatically.
“You’re looking tired, James,” Mr. Hin-
ton said, “and it’s getting dark. Come over
for dinner?”
“I’m afraid I’d fall asleep, and I feel
simply filthy,” Jim Walters excused himself.
“Besides, I want to unpack the horses.”
“Right, then. See you in the morning.
We’ll expect you for dinner to-morrow
night.”
Mr. Hinton walked away through the
growing darkness towards a rambling one-
storeyed building with wide verandahs,
built almost in the shape of a thick L.
He met Helen Delaney at the side-gate
as she was returning from the store, and
they went in together.
Sandy Jackson immediately took up his
old residence in the men’s hut, fifty yards
west of the kitchen, while Jim Walteis
unearthed Marchmont’s old room, tidied it
up, and had a cold bath. He joined three
other quarters men in the dining-room. He
only knew Donald Campbell, the chief
engineer; the two
others were jack-
eroos and strangers.
Campbell intro-
duced him.
“Jim Walters,
meet Harry Blair
and Charley Fiston
—new since you were
here last. Bandy
and Bushcat they’re
called locally. Now
we’ll eat.”
He sat down and
commenced to talk
in a dry tone.
After a good meal
Jim Walters dropped
off to sleep very
quickly. Marc h-
mont’s room was
not strange to him.
He had slept in it
before the late head
stockman had
broken his neck—
years before.
A cool wind
whined along over
the corrugated walls
of the iron station
buildings. Some-
where in the dark-
ness a man cursed
a dog. The voice was
thick and heavy.
In the hut Sandy
Jackson quickly borrowed a blanket
to sleep in. During the trip from
Cloncurry he had used a large tent-
fly belonging to Jim Walters. A
blanket was softer and more homely.
“And where you been all this time?”
a bearded man asked him.
“All over the shop,” Sandy replied
readily. He still wore his quaint hat, but
without the feathers, and was surrounded
by a circle of stockmen. They lay in
various attitudes of rest on large blankets
spread out on the wide verandah of the
hut. Cigarettes glowed, and thousands of
stars lit the sky. Fifty yards away a patch
of light in the doorway of the kitchen
showed that the cook was busy setting
bread.
“What you mean by all over the shop?”
the bearded man asked again. “In gaol—
or what?”
“Gaol me eye! I been down amongst
people. Nobs! I seen people what you
birds’d never get a chance to look at.' I
was well in it.”
A short silence followed his statement.
It seemed as though the listeners were wait-
ing to hear more before passing judgment.
“Yes, an’ I was offered jobs by the
dozen,” Sandy continued. “They wanted
me to go on the stage, some birds did;
but no good to me, that life! Another
joker wanted me to manage his farm, I
(Continued on next page.)


A MEDICINE CHEST IN ITSELF/
!?
Ren ,eis &-%rsk
tfT * fgst w te S s°*f st s igo °«
j\onvW» .ij 'tVie» at the ftt c c zein aIS
ta V &*“» a *eß^ dtte te Vv S ttle S a
aW,:^^dtot»«°“ na dc s«e w
t« £’ s nt for
Jsted-. better ««££, **
;sr bI
&
„nd V
Coo
so#)®
Qii W*
AnWE
law
\A«aVi
SffiS
if
Vft‘s
RQ4R
tho T ° w
c *ni R e * “It
? on L m nt” • j rue-’!
d
ff any illustration in “THE BULLETIN’*
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
PROVED!
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
told him to see me in six munce when I’d
finished me holidays. I got an offer to
travel for a big beer company”
“For a what?” The question snapped
through the darkness.
“Tra veilin’ for beer,” Sandy replied.
“Sellin’ it, an’ drinkin’ gallons an’ gallons
of samples free.”
“And you didn’t take it?” A thin man
propped against the iron wall spoke in
horror.
“No, Mr. Shimmons, I didn’t. I can buy
me beer when I want it. I ain’t got to
work for it.”
“But this beer job, is it still open?”
“Well, as fur as I know it is,” Sandy
replied slowly. “When I got to Cloncurry
on Monday there was a nurgent telegram
waitin’ for me sayin’ wouldn’t I reconsider
me decision; an’ I wired back to ’em an’
says there was nothin’ doin’, but I’d always
be glad to recommend their beer.”
The thin man jumped to his feet.
“I’m not letting that go,” he declared.
“Anyway, I want a holiday. What’s the
address of this company?”
“Er—m, it’s the —the Brisbane Beer Com-
pany,” Sandy answered with a suspicious
haste.
A number of the listeners stirred as
though about to protest, but evidently
thought better and remained quiet.
“Brisbane’s a big place, ain’t it?” Shim-
mons suggested.
“About twenty mile across.”
“What? Town all the way?”
“Yes, Mister, town all the blanky way.
There’s a policeman with a stop-watch on
almost every corner.”
“And where’s this place where the com-
pany hangs out?”
Sandy Jackson scratched his forehead.
“It’s easy' enough to find,” he advised
slowly. “Just remember this. You want
the Brisbane Beer Company—see! An’ it’s
round the corner in the main street.”
“The Brisbane Beer Company, and it’s
round the corner in the main street,” the
thin man repeated vaguely. “Blimey, I
think I’ll go and see the boss.”
Shimmons jumped from the.hut verandah
and commenced to walk rapidly towards
Mr. Hinton’s residence.
“What —you goin’ now?” Sandy shouted
after him.
“Yes, of course, soon as. I get a cheque
off the boss. The mail-car passes through
to the railhead to-night.”
The speaker melted into the darkness.
“Sandy Jackson, you’re a liar if ever
there was one,” the bearded man spoke
through the gloom.
“But he don’t really mean he’s goin’ to
Brisbane?” Sandy argued with a show of
fear.
“You don’t know Arty Shimmons like
you think you do. He’s got notions. He’s
superior—see! Father was a lord or some-
thin’. You’ll never see him again. I could
have spoke up and put your pot on; but
he’s a rotter to get on with, the biggest
pointer in history.”
“You’re right,” somebody else agreed
from the darkness; “Arty Shimmons is a
crawler.”
“Hell!” Sandy ejaculated. “I’m always
doin’ people good turns.”
“Well, stop pitchin’ lies, and tell us where
you really been.”
“I went to Brisbane,” Sandy commenced,
“chased a lot of girls, got took down for
me cash an’ went broke, an’ came back with
a machinery traveller as fur as Cloncurry.
I give that bird the time of his life, I did.
But he don’t know I got his fountain-pen
an’ his pocket-knife.” He broke off and
dived into th<? depths of his huge coat and
produced the articles.
“What’s the idea of the pink skull-cap?
You gone bald, or what?” somebody in the
gloom asked.
“I got that in Cloncurry,” Sandy
answered. “I don’t know how I got it—
but I got it, see!”
“I reckon a man’s not safe sleeping near
the likes of you,” the bearded man
grumbled. “You seem to help yourself to
everything a man owns. Got anything
more?”
“Bring a lamp,” Sandy said, “an’ I’ll
show you somethin’ what none of you’ve
seen in all your lives afore. Straight from
Brisbane they are. They come from Paris.”
A lamp was got and placed in the centre
of the circle. The circle shuffled nearer in
deep interest. Sandy delved away down
into the depths of the coat and produced
a pair of green jazz-garters.
“Ever seen ’em before?” he asked.
“They’re the latest fashion absolutely.”
A breathless silence possessed the men.
They came closer and turned the garters
over with suspicious fingers,
“What are they?” came the question.
“Fancy shanghai rings?”
“No —ladies wear ’em.”
“Ladies?”
“Yes, ladies—don’t you savvy what a
lady is?”
“Yes, but”-——
“Aw, but me flamin’ eye! I was lookin’
at this here girl in the store this afternoon,
an’ she wears ’em.”
“I never noticed ’em. Where they keep
’em.”
“On their legs.”
“Where?”
“Knee high.”
“Hell!” The bearded man sat back. He
was disturbed.
“Did she give you these?” he asked
queerly.
“No, I got ’em in Brisbane,” Sandy
replied. “An’ I got somethin’ else too,
what’s up-to-date.”
“What is it?”
For answer Sandy searched again away
down in his huge coat somewhere around
his body. He wriggled his hand up and
placed before them a toy dog.
“What do you think of that?” he said.
The men looked eagerly, then sat back
weirdly in the lamplight. They laughed
and jeered.
“Sandy, Sandy, you’re growing feeble.
Playing with mechanical pups!”
“Mechanical pups be blowed! Look at
this.” Sandy Jackson pressed two fingers
on the little dog’s head. Immediately a
hidden catch acted and the dog’s back
split open. Sandy picked the toy up,
turned it upside down and allowed its con-
tents to fall on the verandah boards.
Before the onlookers a miscellaneous col-
lection of small articles was spread: a
small powder-puff, a thin box of powder,
two tubes of red lip-paint, a tiny gold
safety-pin, a small folding mirror with a
scent-filled cover, a quaint lace handker-
chief with pink lip-stains, a button-badge
of the Duke of York and another one of
Rudolph Valentino, and a little piece of
soft flannel in which were threaded a few
needles and pins.
“There,” Sandy declared, “that’s the
latest fashion too. It’s what the girls carry
their gear around in.”
The men fingered and poked at the
articles gently. A queer silence had come
over them. They seemed to be just a little
afraid. The lamplight shone upwards on
their lowered faces, and showed a range of
expressions and features. Two men were
heavily bearded. The face of one was
deformed. Three or four of the men were
passably young and healthy. Sandy Jack-
son’s face was in the circle, with its sharp
expression of monkey and rat combined.
“Does Miss Delaney carry one of these
dogs about?” one of the young men asked.
“Not all day,” Sandy explained. “I
watched her this evenin’, when she was
just goin’ to shut the store up. She pulls
a green frog out of underneath her hat what
was on the counter. It’s.a front leg what
•you pull on this frog, an’ its mouth opens
wide.”
“I never seen it before.”
“No more have I.”
The men seemed to be generally sur-
prised and dumbfounded.
“And has she got any of them frilly
shanghai rings on her legs?” someone
asked quietly.
“Yes, I saw ’em this evenin’,” Sandy
answered quickly. “Of course, she don’t
know nothin’ about it, or she’d go off like
a packet of crackers. They put them jazz-
garters on like as though they was meant
to be seen; but you ain’t supposed to see
’em all the same.”
“I’m watchin’ Miss Delaney in the morn-
ing,” came the reply, “and if she hasn’t any
of them jazz-garters on, as you call them,
or that frog handbag business, I’ll bash
your dirty brains out for telling lies.”
“I ain’t got a guilty conscience about it,”
Sandy answered cheerily. “Anyway, I’m
tired, Mister, an’ I’d like to go to bed.”
The men rose almost together and moved
off through the darkness to their blankets.
Sandy spread his down near the verandah
edge. He lay in his clothes, dressed just
as he went about by day.
“Good night, Sandy—you liar!” someone
called.
Sandy straightened up.
“Who said that?” he snapped.
“Me!” The word came from many dif-
ferent quarters.
Sandy subsided with a grunt of disgust.
(To he continued next week.)
Time’s Revenge.
I.—To Any Parent.
The young have flown ; have flown and left
the nest.
Not all your fostering years shall win
you grace;
They will not look behind them in the
race,
Nor ever lisp again they love you best.
Careless they leap to Youth’s eternal quest,
Across the world some smiling stranger
face.
Now you must haunt the old familiar
place
In lonely quietude that fools call Rest.
Smile and be strong! Life has but turned
a page.
We marched as gladly out, on some far
day,
As blind to debts we owed and could not
pay.
We pay them now! We learn the un-
sparing truth:
The world is fashioned to the needs of
Youth.
That has no care at any time for Age.
II. — Penance.
Blind were we all. It is our only plea.
Most loving parents of the long ago,
Look from your heaven and pity us below,
Who erred in blindness —for at last we see.
For half a life you tended us, and we
For all our life had held it must be so;
Till cunning Nature chimed the hour to go,
Thoughtless and thankless, proud at break-
ing free.
The wheel has come full circle. Now again
Our homes are emptied as in years agone
The tender parent, once the careless
child,
Must bear in turn the penitential pain.
We know at last you suffered when you
smiled.
We smile, and suffer. So the world goes
on.
s.A.
S. TALBOT SMITH.


m
.
ill ;S:S
&
11
m.
.
5S
H
. % y
> V' n
d
You will be very pleased
with the pink freshness of
the meat and its delicate ap-
petising aroma* You will enjoy its
delicious flavour* Noting the clear
'firm jelly, and the pure fine clean-
looking texture of the meat due to the
use of only the most carefully selected
choicest raw materials, you will say,
“ Foggitt Jones certainly do not sacri-
fice quality for cheapness*” And,
wanting full measure in food-value
and money-value, you will always
order confidently from your grocer or
smallgoodsman, “ REX'PYE, please ! ”
REX-PYE
IN JELLV
In lib & \lb hygienic cans .
ITT JONES PTV. LTD.
(Division of United Provisions Lf-d.)
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon.


STOCKINGS THAT ARE DIFFERENT.
Sw S£
mmvlwr.
*
*
£
m
m
m
ZIS
1
v» f
vt r
»
32SS*e
*
sm
m
i
(,mj
GIU
r
&
"Rrinouia ho Ike, TDorLcL oj' fashion-
-7 7 (U--'l In, JjosUry Ji^at
tau u%
WHEN stPott3P first created
hosiery, their ideal was to
produce stockings which, in
quality and value, would be with-
out parallel in Australia. ,
hosiery is manufactured
with that ideal constantly in
mind. Small wonder, then, that
should be to-day the
one hosiery which is demanded
by the most fastidious of Aus-
tralia’s leaders of feminine, fashion.
That this ideal has been achieved
is proved beyond all doubt by
the ever-increasing demand for
productions.
Even with the tremendous
resources behind this progressive
Produced in a host of
lovely tonings ,
Full-
Fashioned Hose, Ser-
vice Weight, Pure
Silk from top to toe.
18/11
per pair.
JJrrstujr Full-
Fashioned, Service
Weight Pure Silk
Hose, with super-
mercerised top, heel
and toe.
organisation there is the utmost
difficulty in meeting the demand
for Hosiery.
Compare an ordinary stocking
with a Bn’StiQF creation; note the
soft, even fineness of the Pr£ottg£
product, its fulness, strength and
lovely tonings. You will find
that stockings wear and
wash continuously, and still retain
their beauty. In wear this fine
hosiery gives you that sense of
perfect tailoring, and you realise
how “different” the
creation actually is.
\ - ' ..*• j ■ 4 - ;
Truly has now become
the standard of comparison with
discriminating buyers of quality
hosiery.
FULL FASH
E
5 I E
(t
m
//
'S
4 i
đ
o v <£
(1
f^<s
«K
asp
S?
i WKXt


Startling Innovations at
TO
Dancing till 1 a.m.
EVENING DRESS OPTIONAL.
A La Carte Service.
Minimum Charge 7/6.
Afternoon and Evening
Mr. Ernest C. Rolls's New York
Cabaret Revue.
Popular Cabaret Teas
Monday to Friday 2/6
Saturday 4/-
Phone M 4131 for your reservation.
WHAT DOES SPENDING COST?
How much does it cost you to spend £100? The answer is
£ 1 00 down and at least £4 per annum for the rest of your life.
Yet what man would knowingly spend £lOO that put him
under obligation to pay £4 per year for life.
None, perhaps, but many do it unconsciously when they spend
money that might otherwise have earned interest at 4 per
cent, indefinitely.
Every pound you spend has attached to it an invisible string
of pennies which you spend with it.
Keep your money in a Savings Account and earn, not spend,
4 per cent, interest per annum.
(fibmraonwcaltf) Savmoe Bank of Hustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
ď
Clothes for Men
and Their Sons
If
For Men of the
Saddle^
The “MEXICAN”
Riding Boot
A patent Riding Boot exclusive to Pike
Brothers. Proved and preferred by
thousands of Australian stockmen. I wo-
fold strapped tops make the boot grass-
proof and seed-proof. In Black Calf.
Black Wal'aby or Tan Calf, o •') /S'
Double weight screwed soles j£l O
Pike Brothers
Limited
In Queen Street, Brisbane
At Sting'ray Harbor.
WHEREIN J. H. M. ABBOTT
INTRODUCES US TO SOME OF TEE MEN
WHO WERE WITH GAFT AIR G OOK WHEN HE HAILED INTO
BOTANY BAY.
H.M.S. Endeavour, 22 guns, Lieut.-Com-
mander James Cook, R.N., drifted
slowly northward along the coast of
lilawarra. Outward, to the sweeping line
of the horizon, the vast waters of the new
sea into which she had sailed from Cape
Farewell stretched, blue and glittering in
the warm glow of an April afternoon, to
the pale rim of the sapphire sky. Three
miles away on the other beam lay the land
—a long panorama of shining white beaches
between black and red and ochre headlands,
with deep and dense forests stretching from
an irregular line of surf to the dusky-green
foothills of towering blue mountains that
slept peacefully in the sunlight and formed
a long rampart as far to the north and as
far to the south as the curving edge of the
world permitted the eye to follow. Between
the ship and the shore the blue water changed
into deep emerald and paler green. The
dark shadows of protruding buttresses of the
ranges were indigo purple against the clean
blueness of their mighty flanks. New Hol-
land lay sleeping her long dreamless slumber
—peaceful, mysterious, fabulous, brooding as
she had brooded through almost eternal ages.
Only here and there, on prominent points
and the crests of swelling ridges, thin spirals
of blue-grey smoke eddied above the tree-
tops, to lose themselves in the immensity of
the spreading vault of the heavens—the
single visible sign of human existence on
that long and lonely and lovely coast.
Aft, near the wheel and binnacle, the tall
figure of the commander stood by the mizzen
shrouds, through which he levelled his long
telescope as he searched the shore for indi-
cations of a haven. Behind him, conversing
in low tones, Mr. Banks and Dr. Solander,
as deeply intent as Cook upon the slowly
unfolding strip of forest and mountain sus-
pended between sea and sky, discussed the
chances of making an expedition ashore in
search of plants and herbs, and the many
strange and wonderful objects of natural
history whose possible discovery had lured
them into making this tremendous voyage
into the unknown South Seas.
Mr. Banks waved his hand toward the
ranges, eager enthusiasm in eyes and voice
as he addressed his companion.
“Ah, Doctor, what a world of research lies
before us over yonder! ’Tis almost more
than I have power to realise, the good for-
tune that finds us where we are. A virgin
world, which no civilised man has investi-
gated! To me, I must confess, ’tis a little
awe inspiring—this prospect that lies before
us. Can we do justice to it? The Master,
the great Linnaeus himself—’tis to him this
opportunity should have been vouchsafed.
For myself I feel unworthy of such a
heritage.”
Dr. Solander smiled gravely as he stood
with legs apart, the sunlight flashing on the
silver buckles of his square-toed shoes, his
hands clasped behind him, swaying a little
to the gentle rolling of the ship.
“Ach, my friendt, my goot friendt Mr.
Banks, you should have not any apprehen-
sion. Gonsider, rather, that such as you
and I are permidded this splendid oppordu-
mty. How if this coast had been discovered
by just plain sailormen, having no know-
ledge of plant life and animal life whateffer?
What a loss to science! But we are here,
and we know what we know, and the goot
bod will do justice to our efforts as well
as our fellow-men at home in Europe. I
belief, with God’s plessing, that we shall
do our work satisfactorily. Ach, yes—we
must haf gonfidence in oursellufs.”
A sudden clamor broke out amidships of
the flush-decked vessel—voices of anger and
of recrimination that jarred the ear unplea-
santly in the peaceful quiet of the after-
noon, broken only by the squattorlng splash
of the waters and the thin hiss of sparkling
spray thrown aside by the cutwater as the
ship rose and fell in her slow progression
northward.
Cook lowered his telescope and turned to-
wards the scene of the disturbance, a little
frown of impatience knitting his level brows.
Alter a moment’s pause, in which he seemed
to be rapidly studying and considering some
annoying problem, his clear, commanding
voice rang along the deck, bringing imme-
diate silence.
“Mr. Matra!”
“Sir!” came back from the waist.
Come aft, if you please, Mr. Matra.”
From a group near the foot of the main-
mast a young man detached himself and
walked towards the quarter-deck, which he
duly saluted, buttoning his jacket as he
came. Cook eyed him with obvious dis-
approval as he approached, and the two
naturalists, always a little shy of the Navy’s
stern discipline—though on board the En-
deavour it was of a humaner sort than in
most Ring s ships—eyed the proceedings
uneasily. Mr. Banks looked especially dis-
tressed, and acknowledged the young man’s
hasty salute with a little stiff and solemn
bow as he saw him pass by, to halt before
the commander.
He was a good-looking young fellow, with
an easy and almost jaunty carriage, but his
countenance had paled a little beneath its
tan as In; approached the tall and erect per-
son of the great navigator, whose kindly,
wistful eyes had that hard glint in them that
only came there with righteous anger. James
Hook was an equable, just man, but he was
no fool to take liberties with, or one who
would brook aught that savored of insubor-
dination. Patient and capable of making
many allowances—he had himself been
through a harder mill in the school where
lie learned liis seamanship than any who
sailed with him—his quiet wrath was not
a thing to be incurred lightly or faced with
equanimity. It was quite obvious that the
young man standing on the deck before him
did not at all underestimate the seriousness
of his position.
“Sir?” he said again as his commanding
officer gazed sternly upon him.
Closing his telescope and tucking it be-
neath his left arm, Cook placed his hands
behind him, stared a moment or two longer
at the young man, then turned abruptly
upon his heel and walked slowly and deli-
berately aft towards the great stern lantern,
above which the red cross of St. George blew
out towards the land. Whilst fifteen sec-
onds slipped by—longer than that to the
other occupants of the quarter-deck—lie
stared down at the quiet eddy of the ship’s
wake beneath him, above which the white
gulls wheeled and swooped against the sky.
Suddenly six bells broke the silence which
had enveloped the ship, and, as if roused
by tlieir triple ilong-dong, dong-dong, dong-
dong, the commander wheeled about and
came pacing back again. Abruptly and with
a harshness that was unfamiliar to his ship-
mates, he addressed himself to the expectant
youth, whose clothing bore some resemblance
to the dress of a midshipman, but was not
altogether in keeping with that rank.
“Mr. Matra,” lie said, “I am exceedingly
displeased with you.”
“Sir!” There was but half-hearted pro-
test in Mr. Matra’s tone.
“Do not interrupt me, if you please. I
was about to observe that your conduct
causes me great annoyance. ’Tis but a
short time since I was obliged to mark my
disapproval of it—both on service grounds
and from the point of view of humanity and
decency—by dismissing you the quarter-deck
and sending you to mess for’ard, on account
of your disgraceful conduct towards my
clerk, Mr. Orton. And now what do I find
actually occurring beneath my very eyes, as
though my expressed wishes and desires
counted for nothing with you? Why, that
you are again baiting and pestering that
young man, jeering at the misfortune which
he endures as a result of your own sense-
less folly, if not criminal wickedness. I
myself have but just heard you using a most
insulting expression to him., ‘A. d—d idle,
pot-bellied, crop-eared captains poodle!’ I
heard you use those very words, sir. There
is about them some implication of disrespect
to myself, sir, upon which I will
make no comment, save to assure you
that any disrespect or any implied dis-
respect to the office which I am lion-
ored by holding shall not lightly be
passed over. You will seek out Mr. Orton
and make apology to him in the presence
of the master-at-arms, whom I shall ques-
tion as to your having done so. In future
you will refrain from addressing my clerk
under any circumstances. You will be dis-
rated for the remainder of the voyage, and
if I have any reason to reprimand you again
for such gross and ungentlemanlike conduct
as you have been guilty of, I will assuredly
bring you to a court-martial upon our
return to England. Do not misunderstand
me—l mean what I say. Go for’ard imme-
diately, Mr. Matra—and, to mark my pro-
sent displeasure with you, I will stop your
grog! That is all, sir. Leave the quarter-
deck.”
* * * *
Two tall Norfolk Island pines stand close
together at Kurnell, a few hundred yards
to the eastward of where Captain Cook first
set foot in Australia, and it was a little
way in front of their position that Mr.
James Matra, North American, sat in the
shade at the edge of the scrub a week later
and gazed gloomily across the wide blue
waters of Botany Bay towards the low
northern shores which Cook strangely and
inaccurately described as meadow land of
considerable richness. It would have been
bad for Australia if much of the land had
uo better value than those “meadows” !
Mr. Matra’s attitude was one of extreme
dejection, as, with liis elbows supported upon
his knees and his hands supporting his
jaws, he contemplated what, even if it be
the aspect of a bad harbor surrounded by
poor and worthless country, is nevertheless
a very beautiful and very inspiring view.
Somehow, in spite ot the outskirts of a
great city rearing dense masses of roofs and
tiill factory chimneys in distant haziness to
the north and west, Botany Lay, as you
look at it from that green lawn beneath the
two tall pines, is still suggestive of what
Cook and his companions gazed upon during
the first week of May in 1 i <O. Phillip
and Hunter and Judge-Advocate Collins
might easily be puzzled by the altered
appearance of Port Jackson, and incline
towards a supposition that they were in
some other vast harbor were they to steer
their boats round Bradley’s Head on any
fine morning in this year of grace. Little
remains but the water of the sort of thing
they saw in 1788. But if the Endeavour
were once again to pass in between Capes
Batiks and Solander and drop her anchor
off Point Sutherland, her crew would not
find tjje wide basin of the bay and its sur-
rounding foreshores changed beyond recog-
nition. Far away, the dreary purlieus of
Waterloo and the long lines of the Illawarra
suburbs, half hidden in the haze of distance
and drifting smoke—they might pass almost
tor a freak of the mirage, something
that does hot. really exist. Even the obso-
lete fort on little Bare Island, where worn
veterans of wars that were children of the
wars in which James Cook had part smoke
and fish and yarn away the evening of their
days in tranquillity—even the obsolete fort
would not make the place unrecognisable
to the first Englishman who saw it a cen-
tury and a half ago. The two gaunt head-
lands, bare and desolate as they were in
those days, are still the same; the wide
sweep of the bay curving westward to an
almost invisible shore is mainly as it was
then, and on the adjacent southern side the
scattered cottages of Kurnell have not yet
obliterated the virgin bush from which the
Endeavour was “wooded and watered.”
Mr. Matra was glum and pessimistic. A
young man with enthusiasms, he felt him-
self cast down, unprosperous and of no im-
portance, whilst his value in the scheme of
things as it existed that morning was alto-
gether negligible. Had he cared what be-
came of him he would not have sat where
he did, with his back to the dark scrub, an
easy target for the barbarous wooden lances
of the “Indians,” whom all the kindness and
good intention of its leader had not. suc-
ceeded in making content with this invasion
of their sovereign rights in their ancient
native land. But it gave Mr. Matra some
melancholy satisfaction thus to defy a fate
that had already afflicted him with what he
regarded as intolerable persecution. Fate
might do her worst. He did not care. And
as for the beauty and quiet loveliness of the
view that spread itself before his angry, dark
eyes—why, damn the view! He would
sooner be seated on Wapping Old Stairs
in a fog. Be damned to the stinking, greasy
black men —be damned to them ! For his
part, they might do their worst, too.
Came walking along the foreshore, a-
smoking his black clay, spitting tobacco-
juice at scuttling little crabs that hurried
into cover beneath ledges of sandstone, and
vaguely speculating as to whether his mess-
mates Jack Gattliray, the bos’n, Steve For-
ward, the gunner, and Johnny Satterly, the
carpenter, had embezzled his morning tot
of rum over there in the dingy hole that
was their home aboard the ship—came that
stout and hearty, cheerful and profane sea-
man Mr. Richard Pickersgill, the master’s
mate of the Endeavour. He espied the ox-
midshipman and stopped to look at him —for
a few moments in startled wonder and aston-
ishment. It was evident that Mr. Matra
was not aware of lii,s presence. He remedied
that misfortune with a roaring tempest of
blasphemous good-fellowship and greeting.
“Well, sink my soul in Hell Harbor if it
ain’t our old Jimmy! And a-lookin’ as
solemn as a doxy at a christ’nin’, blast his
limbs! Ho, there, Jimmy Matra, what’s to-
ward that ye must be a-settin’ there a-askin’
an Injin for to shove a pike into ye, or to
clout ye over y’r dam’ silly cocoanut? Blow
me, but ye mouglit as well take a dive into
Stringray Harbor here, as th’ cap’n says ’tis
to be named, as to turn y’r back on them
fellies when there’s a bit o’ thick bush
handy! Split my tops’ls if that ain’t th’
werry truth ! Come out of it—have sense
an’ come out of it.”
This inspiriting address had the effect of
calling Mr. Matra up from the depths of
black despair in which he had wallowed
hopelessly before the arrival of the cheery
petty officer. Jerkily he rose to his feet and
shuffled down the sandy slope to where the
mate stood at the water’s edge regarding
him with humorous concern.
“Ah, Dick,” he said mournfully when he
had joined him, “ ’tis very well for you to
rant and roar as if nothing iii the world
mattered. You haven’t had the keel torn
away from your bottom. Your cable hasn’t
been cut, and your rudder smashed upon a
lee shore. You haven’t been condemned like
an old hulk that’s good for nothing but the
ship-breakers’ axes. ’Tis easy for you to be
merry and jolly who haven’t a care in the
world or a trouble on your mind. Yes, ’tis
not you who should feel as though life were
a burden and an affliction not to be borne.
But I”
He was interrupted by a stiff wallop in the
ribs from Mr. Pickersgill’s mighty leg-o’-
mutton fist and a roar of disapproval.
“Ha, blow th’ man down, what th’ devil’s
he a-talkin’ of? 7 ain’t no troubles nor
worries? Me! Why, ye lubber, I’d ha’ ye
for to know I’m up to me neck in ’em.
Here’s a black-hided heathen cuts th’ painter
o’ th’ second cutter wi’ a hatchet th’ cap’n’s
give him, me bein’ in charge o’ th’ boat, an’s
off into th’ forest like a lamplighter, and
Jimmy th’ One —th’ First Lootanant —
swears he’ll stop th’ vally o’t from me pay.
Ain’t that no trouble? Damn these here
Noo ’Ollanders, says I! Another one o’ ’em
nips down into th’ warrant-hofficere’ berth
an’ ’elps himself to me best pair o’ Nankeen
pants an’ a quarter-pound o’ navy twist
w’ich I finds th’ blaggard a-earin’ hof he’ind
th’ deck ’ouse. God’s truth, ain’t them
things enough to make a man wish ’e’d never
ha’ bin born? Come, now, what’s happened
to you, Jimmy Matra, can’t be said to lie
in th’ same hanchorage with troubles like
them?”
Mr. Matra sighed and made a gesture of
despair, his eyes idly resting upon the yawl
as it paddled its way slowly shoreward from
the ship across the sunlit surface of the
bay.
“I’d not care if it were not for the smirk-
ing airs of triumph over me assumed by
that fat lickspittle Dick Orton. What’s the
Navy coming to when for a harmless joke
a man’s kicked out of his rating, treated
like a dog and made to look and feel small
in the eyes of all his shipmates, I’d like to
know! flow can the captain suppose merit’s
to be encouraged in such a fashion? D —n
the captain, he’s”
“Avast there, now, my beauty! You leave
Cap'll Cook be —he’s a father to th’ whole
boilin’ of us, that he is ! A ’armless joke!
Lord ha’ mercy—d’ye name it a joke for
to clip a man’s ears an’ tar ’is fa’ce an’
(Continued on page 57.)
THE “CHRISTMAS BULLETIN.”
This year the Christmas Bulletin will be published on Saturday, Dec. 7.
It will be an extraordinary sixpenn’orth.
In addition to more than 20 complete stories chosen for their quality,
verses by the 20 best-known writers in Australia, and over 50 illustrations
by all the principal black-and-white artists including two full-page drawings
by Leason and Jardine and three caricatures by Low—there will be a colored
supplement on art paper by B. E. Minns.
Mr. Minns, the greatest painter of the Australian aborigine, has been
engaged during the year on a set of four water-colors of the subject of
which he is the world's undisputed master. These have been purchased by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., and the first of them, “A Northern Belle,” will
be reproduced with the “Christmas Bulletin.”
Notwithstanding the great expense incurred in the production of the
“Christmas Bulletin,” it will be sold at the usual price sixpence.
Orders are now being taken by newsagents throughout Australia and
Maoriland.


Hanking, Public Companies, etc.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares . . . . .. - 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares .. .. •• 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS
Cleat Britain and Ireland, and other places.
ktCEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund ~ .. .. .. 985,000
£2,235,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,485,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENTIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
hanking business transacted.
AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand.
Loudon, W.C.2, where they can see the horn,
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
PROGRESS
A 65 % increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
NZ. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z GUN CLUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISEAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAL ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOEF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Of to any of Uie World's I.eftdiiiK
Advertising A gut .lies.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Shipping, etc.
d
ď
Excursions to HAWAII
The Canadian-
Australasian Line
will shortly commence it s
Summer Excursion Runs, which,
by specially reduced rates, bring
within your reach an interesting
voyage on a large and modern
liner with a holiday to follow in
Hawaii.
This famous little Island of the
South Seas is a cosmopolitan
holiday centre, world-famous for
its endless Summer sunshine, the
matchless surf of Waikiki Beach,
its tropical scenic splendor and its
carefree languorous life.
Sail by the Aorangi or Niagara (via
Auckland and Suva) on either of these
dates: December 12, January 9,
February 6. Excursion Rates:
£75 First Saloon £55 Second
Union Steam Ship Co.,
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
JAVA
(The Wonderland of the East).
OLD BUDDHISTIC AND HINDU IS TIC TEMPLES—NATIVE BAZAARS.
EXCELLENT BIG-GAME SHOOTING. BEAUTIFUL TROPICAL SCENERY.
EXTENSIVE TEA GARDENS. INTERESTING PEOPLE.
Regular monthly sailings by the favorite vessels
“iMARELLA” (7500 tons) and “MALABAR” (5000 tons).
The Beautiful Solomons
Full of interest and romance and situated only seven days
steaming n.-e. of Sydney. The comfortable and popular
S.S. MATARAM sails from Sydney on December 21, and six-
weekly thereafter, visiting 30 picturesque Island Ports.
ROUND TRIP 4h WEEKS. FARE £4l
Write for Pamphlet No. 52/S to
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
:y
a
OuMLli* ..tOUUkIl 1 (*
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
đ
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20.900,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER SO. 1928, £88,982,585.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
554 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND - 4,200,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - - - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,678,025 0 0
Db'ectors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN (Chairman);
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND; Major-General
the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, ana all other parts of
the world.
vll Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc,
BRISBANE,viaBYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening ; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. W 081-ON 0 B AR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/t/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHARMS* HOUSE
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
tiuddart Parker Ljsi
MagniFioem
Past Pasaengor
: Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to he obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART P ARKEft Ll MinJ
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
53^
'6>
V;
HOW
Rashes do Itch/
Bathe them freely with Cuticura Soap
and hot water, dry gently, and apply
Cuticura Ointment. It is surprising
how quickly the irritation and itching
stop and after a few treatments the rash
disappears. There is nothing better for
all forms of skin troubles.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. id.
Sample each free.
Address: R.Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
IOIUIVd 3HI
AMO ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
,‘Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
WITH
his purchase of space
in “The Telegraph”
the advertiser acquires
the permanent interest
of an organisation
containing experts on
every aspect of the
printing business.
AND-
both reader and pur-
chaser appreciate the
workmanship.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co. Ltd.
Queen Street,
Brisbane.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.


WORLD-FAMOUS fW
•Hht
t*N e^d(
S*.
%
gJ
is
fce
Sty
to&
& 4 1
&tz
(n 7
\o
tt\
de
td°
l^ot
tV^ e
? ,oV°» ts
\VU^ S
tf*
S^ atv
ao®
ds
*tV
<vr**
? o ws eats i atv<
***lno**t.l&*
icM
Sv*® 1 ®
vet
t\e
to
CO
t<vO
“c\t e
rvtc®
ts
ett
se
22! 6
eti
es
til®
i/i
Vt4G
e
co v °
St-tt
ft
ttu
to
7'/
7 1 6
{tow
c'u s
itow
Sill
pew
-pew s
’po'7 tvt
\t»v
p y we
'l
R\a c
Se^
<0
%is ;
t
'MS
S.F. 230 C
Black or
Mottled
(with clip)
27/6
Jade with
Boiled Gold
Bands
30/-
Lapis Lazuli
with
Boiled Gold
Bauds
30/-
ft
STH?®*
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue pest free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD , Swan House, London, W.I.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Ma/ia,ing Agents and Repair Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.. 181. Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
; JBL do3ifc» I*3^
avouy
'** m f ■ V->r
At all good hotels
and tobacconists _
Special box prices on request
Wholesale Distributors
CRAIG & AIT KEN
654 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
cut tli’ seat out of ’is pantaloons w’en ’e’s
a-lyin’ drunk an’ ’elpless, same as liany gem-
man mought be? Stiffen me, but I think
ye hougbter thank tli’ Lord tli’ skipper’s let
ye down so light. An’ ye know ’twas y’self
started tli’ trouble, down tli’ coast last week,
a-blaggardin’ and abusin’ th’ cap’n’s clerk
under th’ cap’n’s very lieye, a-roarin’ of
y’r curses into his very list’ner. D’ye think
Jem Cook’s th’ man for to stand by an'
suffer ye to carry on in that there style?
If ye do ye’re a bigger fool than wot
I'd tak’ee for, me lad.”
Mr. Matra made no reply. He was star-
ing past the mate to where the yawl had
grounded on a little sandy strip of beach
and seaweed between the yellow rocks, some
fifty yards up the shore from where they
stood." His lips had closed into a hard line,
and his jaw was set savagely as he hissed
an“ri]y -
“By Gad, he’s given into my hands! I’ll
take it out of the fellow’s hide, by Gad. I
will! I’ll give him something to make him
grin the other side of his mouth.”
Mr. Matra had observed his enemy and vie-
tim—whose victim he had realised he was now
become—the captain’s clerk, Orton, in the
act of clambering over the yawl’s blunt bow T s
on to the sand, and the sight was too much
for him. With a yell of hatred he started
to run past Pickersgill, standing a dozen
paces away between him and the boat.
His sudden leap into action was a little
startling, but not too much so for that
stout and ready seaman, Richard Pickers-
gill. As the infuriated youth dashed by, the
same tremendous fist which had recently
smitten him amicably and playfully in the
ribs smote him again, but in no friendly
fashion, in the region of the right ear, so
that he stumbled, lurched and fell prone
among the tussocks in the dry sand above
highwater-mark. There he lay at Mr.
Pickersgill’s feet whilst that efficient peace-
maker bellowed at the bewildered captain’s
clerk, who stood uncertainly regarding the
downfall of his enemy and liis prostrate form
lying unconscious on tlie shore of the bay:
“Get ye back aboard, ye gaping zany!
By tli’ Lord, if Matra comes to before ye
make y’self scarce out o’ here, ’twill fie
all up wi’ you. Go whiles y’r safe, ye dam’
fool, an’ thank y’r stars as I was here to
save y’r silly life!”
* * * *
„ , ~ , . , ,
Years and years afterwards a gnarled and
venerable Lieut.-Commander, Mr Richard
Pickersgill, came ashore from the sloop Cliar-
at Tangier to dine with the British
Vice-Consul there, James Matra, Esquire,
and the feast was a feast of tfu heavy wine
ot Portugal, the strong punch of Old Eng-
laid and of old tales and reminiscences of
the most famous voyage ever made below
the Line.
“Ah, Jimmy, me boy, ’tis a blessin I was
wi’ ye that morn at Stingray Harbor. A
great blessin’! Had ye been allowed to
handle that scurvy Dick Orton as he de-
sarved, th’ captain—Gawd bless ’im lie and
never ha’ restored y’r ratin’, as he done
after we bumped th’ reef to th’ nor’ard that
niglit when ye worked so well an’ regained
Jem Cook’s favor. .By tli’ Lord, ’tis me ye’ve
got to thank for this fine house an’ these yer
slaves an’ this good grog an’ all of it.i Come
now, me hoy, a bumper to Bot’ny Bay, what
first of all th’ cap’n named for them great
stingrays we took in tli’ seine! Dash my
lieyes, d’ye remember ’em—three banner
pound weight they was an’ more. Well,
here’s to Stingray Harbor an’ them days
when we sailed wi’ bravo Jem Cook-—an’ I
saved y’r bacon for ye, blast yer hold lieyes.
“East is East”
B. K. ADAMSON
ON TEE PAS 10, IN THE PHILIPPINES.
TELLS A THRILLING STORY OF LOVE AND HATE
EVEN after the tropical sunset had 1
plunged Manila into night, as suddenly
as a candle flame extinguished, Eric
Conrtney continued to rave. Perspiration
streamed down his unshaven face, his dark
e.ves gleamed. And always he talked of her,
thought of her, and talked and thought of
nothing else.
"I shall take her to-night!” he growled to
Gaston Dubois, a Frenchman by descent, who
was seated in the great room, “You mark my
words, Dubois, as surely as the Pasig flows
into the bay, I shall take her back with me
to-night!”
Dnbois shrugged his shoulders, staring up
at the big man. With such a physique, such
a fae?, he had been born to command and to
ha obeyed. His dark eyes pierced one as he
spoke, his hair was a crisp black. He
weighed two hundred pounds stripped, yet
there was no fat on him. A brute of a man,
with a voice that thundered. But Dubois
hsd lived in the tropics for years and years,
and he knew something of the history of the
affair, so he shrugged his narrow shoulders.
“Who buried her swine of a father?”
Courtney raved on. “The renegade son of
a Mantim he was. A beast of a fellow! Who
sent Toau down here to school? Who sup-
plied the money to have her treated like a
white girl? Who saved her from that crazy
native who ran amok with a knife, after
drinking too much sake on the sampan
coining down? I did, and you know it,
Dubois! 1 did all these things and many
others for her. She belongs to me, I tell
yon, and I mean to keep her!”
Gaston Dubois allowed his eyes to drift
dreamily away from the towering form of the
man who stood before him. The room was
still terrifically hot, even though night had
come down.
“Even so.” Dnbois said finally, “ ‘East is
East and West is West.’ You can’t get away
from”—-
“To the Devil with that theory !” the big
man thundered. “I know my Kipling as well
as yon do. But I’m going to take her back
with mg to-night I”
The Frenchman smiled. “You are going to
make the attempt,” he allowed. “Whether
you s«CT:eed! or not” He made a gesture,
indicating that he considered the two things
grate different.
"Bah!” Courtney sneered. “Do you think
lam nrepared ? I can twist and smash
this weakling, rotted by many long years
down hare. A weakling he is—yet he talks
to Toau of love! He believes she will not
go hack to the plantation with me!”
Gaston Dubois smiled sardonically. He
had! heai'd tales of Eric Courtney’s planta-
tion, squatted far away from Manila in one
of the upper reaches of the black-watered
Pasig. _ And they were not pleasant tales.
is something more than desire for
a woman, Conrtney,” he said slowly. “You
want Toau. You tell me she is Chinese.
But this chap Burton loves her, and he
believes she is more than half white. She
is of fine caste, according to him. He will
not let you take her!”
“Bah!” roared Courtney again. “What
can he do? How can he prevent me from
Iszkmg her? My sampan is waiting near
iks Bridge of Spain. The night is
dark, and will be dark. I have sent
Toau a note, and she will meet me on the
Luneta ; where the band plays, and the
crowd is gay. But I shall walk her a short
distance away, and then”——
He broke off, smiled significantly, and then
continued: “And what if this Burton
follows? I can tear him in two with my bare
hands! I can smash him into insensibility.
Yon know that, Dubois!”
“I know,” returned the Frenchman, “that
you are the bigger man. Courtney. But this
Lee Burton is of the East. He was born
in India, and he knows the Orient. He
knows Toau, and the ways of her people. I
do not say you will fail to take her back”—
Gaston Dubois smiled again—“to your plan-
tation. But I do say that you should be care-
ful, Courtney, Do not make the mistake of
thinking that physical strength alone will
enable you to succeed.”
"Oh, I know!” Courtney rumbled. “I
know that they are cunning, these white
men who have turned to the different breeds.
But this Lee Burton—pah !”
He reached over and caught Gaston by
the wrist, glancing at the Frenchman's
watch. His face was wreathed in a broad
grin.
“An hour only,” he muttered, “and I
hope that this Burton follows us. In fact” —
the big man chuckled —“I think I shall see
to it that he knows how we have gone.
Many sampans fight their way up the Pasig
never to return.”
Gaston nodded. “That is true,” he agreed.
“In a way, Courtney, I’d like to see you take
this woman. You have done a lot for her;
but I think you’re wrong in several things.
In the first place, she has more white blood
in her than you think. In the second place,
if you don’t mind my saying it, she’s not
at all your type. She possesses a certain”
He broke off awkwardly.
“A certain what?” Eric Courtney asked,
still smiling. “Culture —I suppose you are
afraid to say?”
Dubois smiled. “She’s been down here at
the best schools,” he stated, simply. “Her
English is quite perfect; she has trotted
about quite a bit, lias bearing, poise. She’s
learned a lot. Do you think she will be satis-
fied with you?”
Courtney nodded his head slowly. “She’ll
get used to me,” he replied. “She’ll have
to get used to me—because I want her, and
what I want I take. Isn’t that true?”
Dubois agreed, with a brief nod. “Well,”
he said, rising from his chair and tossing
down the drink he had held all this time in
his left hand, “after all, it is none of my
business. The affair concerns you and the
woman—and this Burton. I suppose you are
justified in taking her, in a way, if you
can get her —and if you can keep her. Luck,
anyway! But don’t become over-confident.
You’ve been down here five years—I’ve been
here nearly twenty. Burton has been here
close to thirty. Remember, you come from
the States. This is the East and there is”
Courtney closed his great hand over the
Frenchman’s. His eyes were narrowed, and
there was an ugly gleam in them.
“To the Devil with you, Dubois,” he boomed.
“Let him come after her —I shall be ready!
Let him bring the Constabulary—I shall
still be ready.”
Gaston Dubois shook his head. “He won’t
do that,” he said quietly. “You are, I see,
ignorant of his methods, Courtney. Believe
me, if he comes, he will come alone.”
And as the Frenchman left the room the
deep-voiced laughter of Eric Courtney
down the polished stairs after him, even
reached out into the heated street, along
which the natives padded on their bare feet.
A great joke, the big man thought the whole
thing—a great joke.
Courtney had learned little during his five
years of living in the East, Dubois decided,
as * * *
Carabao, moving their horned heads lazily,
cooled themselves in the black mud along the
banks of the Pasig. Sampans drifted here
and there, some with sails set, some paddled
along by natives.
Under the thatched roof of one of these
sat Toau Canton, her face pale, but her eyes
flashing as they met those of Eric Courtney.
“Beast!” she spat at him, “What good
will this do you? I shall never be a wife to
you. I detest and despise you!”
Courtney merely smiled at this outburst.
For a few moments he stood and puffed at
his strong cheroot in silence. When he spoke
his voice was calm.
“It is enough to have you near me,” he
said slowly. “To look at you, Toau, is quite
sufficient. You are beautiful, Toau, and the
sort of beauty that stands /the heat of the
tropics is rare.”
Toau’s lips curled scornfully, but she was
indeed beautiful. Her hair was night black,
blacker than the waters on which the sampan
floated. Her eyes, of the color of moorland
pools, were slightly slanted, but very beauti-
ful for all that. Otherwise she might have
been mistaken for a British or an American
girl. She spoke perfect English.
“Melodrama!” she sneered. “I had not
thought you such a fool!”
“You had not thought of me at all,” he
retorted, scowling. “You were thinking only
of this”
Toau- silenced him with a shrug of her
slender shoulders and a look of hatred. She
had fought furiously when the shawl had been
thrown over her head in the quiet little alley
not far from the Luneta. She had fought in
the carriage which had brought her to the
(Continued on next page.)


CHRONIC BACKACHE
1 Rheumatism, Lumbago
BE WARNED IN TIME
I NATURE IS TELLING YOU TO TAKE THIS SOUND ADVICE
Sudden dizziness, head-swimming, sight blurred, chronic
backache, a weak, helpless feeling, almost ready to faint
be warned! Nature is telling you in unmistakable
terms of deep-seated Kidney Trouble.
It is no use trying to ward off these attacks with heart-
exciting drugs which may “buck you up” for an hour
only to leave you weaker than before. You cannot
neglect these symptoms unless you wish to wait for total
health break-down.
Do you know there are a host of women ready and
willing to tell you they ended all the dread symptoms of
Kidney Trouble in an inexpensive, quick manner, simply
by taking a short course of De Witt’s Pills?
The kidneys, in health, act as the great cleansing and
purifying centre for every drop of the body’s blood
supply. They should filter and pass out from the system
any excess of uric acid. When they
fail in their duty, your health fails
and pain and suffering result.
That is why the only pos-
sible remedy for
Rheumatism,
■cf;
iSI
'Z-
<r
=2»-
<e?
c
'-JT
H
'5?
<9-.
<4-
Kid
aw
<SP
f¥s
<2>
a?
s
h 1
%
Ses
Stfi
II
%
i!rs» •
JU
pe
\
Sciatica, Lumbago, or Gout must act directly on the
kidneys, and that is why we state clearly and definitely
that the world-famous De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills
are guaranteed to do this, purifying the blood, ridding it
entirely of pain-giving poisons, and restoring splendid
vigor and vitality.
Why not let De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills start
you on the road to health to-day? Go to your chemist
and get a 3/6, or the larger, more economical size, 6/6,
supply. Take them regularly. You will be amazed how
quickly your health will improve. Your chemist can tell
you all about the prescription from which “De Witts
are made. It is clearly printed on the box. Further-
more, he sells this remedy under distinct guarantee that
in 24 hours you will see and know the pills have started
their health-restoring action. If not, your money is
refunded. With this guarantee surely you will not stay
crippled with ill-health longer? Let De Witt’s bring you,
as they have brought thousands of others, strength, health
and happiness.
READ THIS LETTER-JUST ONE OF THOUSANDS
Mrs. E. Deacon, 48 Locksley Avenue, Merrylands, Sydney, says:
“For nine months I suffered with had backache. It was just as if
a fork had been dug in my back. I could not sleep with the pain. As
for doing my cleaning, xchen I got down on my knees I could hardly
get up. The pain attacked me everywhere. No one knows what I
went through with my Kidneys. I started taking Be Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills. They have done me the ivorld of good. I get
tip better, fresher at five in the morning without trouble or pain.
I blame myself for not taking ‘De Witt’s’ before.”
KIDNEY
AND
BLADDER
d
m
Si
I
7
4
o
m-d
%
Oi
'/
%
river. But she was quiet now, and this
fact disturbed Courtney, althoug.l iie tried
hard to convince himself that his worry was
foolish. Il'e had rather expected that rt
would be necessary to tie the girl down to
prevent her throwing herself into the water.
So she realised, did she, that Burton could
not reach her now !
“He will come,” she said suddenly, start-
ling him by the tone of her voice, “and when
he does come you will cease to exist.”
“Bah!” Courtney muttered, shuffling un-
easily on his mat. “I will break him in two.”
Toau threw back her head and laughed.
She seemed so unafraid, so confident.
“Can you break him in two with a knife
sticking through your back?” she suddenly
shot at him. “Can you break him in two
with a bullet in your heart?”
He laughed scornfully, but her eyes
suddenly lifted over his head, widening slightly
and he swung round in sudden fear.
Her laughter filled the sampan’s roofed
quarters, and maddened him, made him fight
for control.
“He will come like that,” she warned,
“and 1 shall see him first. Remember that,
you who were once my guardian; I shall
see him first!”
And that was the beginning of the grim
game which had originated in Toau Canton s
brain ; in the cunning brain of one who was
of the East.
She would mock him, and he would mock
back. And then, suddenly, her eyes would be
raised. They would stare behind him, widen-
ing. And he would fight down the desire to
whirl about, and lose —most of the time, in
the end. For he knew that Lee Burton could
follow, could overtake his sampan and climb
aboard after a short swim.
The heat was intense, but Toau did not
seem to mind it. She possessed, he soon dis-
covered, the courage of her breed. When he
had taken the dagger away from her he had
found that out. A strip of cloth was still
wrapped round his left wrist. She was strong,
too.
On the morning of the second day he had a
bad scare. As usual, he was talking of his
love, reminding her of how he had cared for
her father, had sent her to the schools in
Manila. Reminding her that she owed him
something.
“Is it not true,” she demanded, “that my
father gave you many yen before lie died,
and told you to see to it that I had a good
education? Is that not so?”
“That is not so!” he roared at her; but
his eyes betrayed him, and he wondered how
she had come to know that her father had
given him money and exacted a promise.
And then, while he was denying her state-
ment, she lifted her eyes again, glancing
behind him —and the swift panic gripped him
again. But there was no one there!
“You devil!” he bellowed. He wanted to
strike her, yet something held him back ; some
force seemed to prevent him. He was begin-
ning to feel afraid of her. She was clever —
too clever! He remembered the words of
Gaston Dubois: “East is East” —a vague
He resorted to strategy, changing his posi-
tion in the tiny cabin, but she laughed at him.
“He can stand on the deck and strike
through the stuff!” she said calmly. “He is
an excellent shot —and he hates you!”
And all Courtney could do was to rage at
the lethargic paddlers, and curse them, and
jr 0 11P on the deck of the sampan at intervals
and peer through the hot sun-glare, seekin»
for other craft. The journey seemed m-
tClThe *fear of a knife or bullet commenced to
make itself manifest .in many ways. Me
found it intensely difficult to control hn>
nerves, and he could not sle.ep at all. Ihe
morning of the third day, with their destina-
tion, the squatting, low-roofed ranch, only six
or seven hours’ journey away, he cleaned .ma
Colt again and again, with Toau s
eves upon him. She knew that he was clean-
ing it only for the sake of having it in his
hands. Fear was beating him.
“He loves me!” she would say suddeniy,
startling him by the way her voice stabbed
through the cabin. “He loves me, and he
will come! His knife is sharp, and lis aim
is steady. Which will it be? I do not
know —we can only wait. .
“Bah he would mutter in reply, but his
voice was weak, and his eyes now roved con-
tinually Gaston Dubois had warned him
that lie could not afford to take chance*
The native crew were stupid and lazy. £
man could board the sampan without then
knowing it; and Lee Burton was ot tile
East, cunning and careful. Once on the plan-
tation, things would be different. There he
would have protection—and Toau would be
guarded while he slept. But here . .
“I was named after a great city—Canton,
she was saying. "Lee will take me tootffii
great cities, after he has silenced you toi
eV The great hulk of a man wiped the per-
spiration from his face with a tremblni*
hand. This was the first time he had
noticed it was trembling. He looked at
Toau quickly, and saw that she was smihn».
“You are sick with fear, she sneered.
“See liow you shake!” . .
Eric Courtney growled. He was making
a fool of himself, allowing a frail girl to
frighten him by her trickery., havageiy he
rose to his feet, stood swaying Ins back
toward the stern opening of the thatched roof.
Raising the Colt, he flung it away from
him. He stood there, swaying from side
to side, glaring down at her. 1 lie water
lapped against the sides of the sampan,
making soft, gurgling sounds.
“You can’t make a fool of me. nc
shouted at her. “Trying to break my nerve,
trying to frighten me with your trickeiy,
your glancing behind. Let him come. II
break him in two, this weakling of yours.
* His voice trailed off into a whisper—and
then a complete silence. His eyes had been
upon hers, and she had raised them slowly
and was staring beyond him toward the stem
of the sampan. Her pupils widened m a
simulation of utter surprise astonishment
A low .cry came from her lips, which she
stifled with the palm of her hand.
With a desperate effort, Courtney kept his
eves on her, his back to the stern of the
craft. He raised his arms and laughed.
“You can’t fool me any more! he shouted.
“You can’t fool me any more! I'm wise
to your tricks. Trying to break my nerve—
trying to make me as weak as that Burton
of yours. Go ahead— keep it up! Let him
COI h e —let him come ! I’ll break—huh !
His breath was expelled m a guttural
grunt, his eyes stared horribly as he Jerked
his huge body round. And even as he
pitched slowly to the ragged mats his lips
flecked with red, he saw the wet, half-clothed
form of Lee Burton through a mist saw
the long blade in his right hand, and remem-
bered the words of Gaston Dubois.
The Frenchman was talking to Avery Cole.
An orchestra played soft Spanish airs from
the balcony of the Manila Hotel
“She tricked him, according to Lee. He
didn't say much, but I could guess a „ood
deal The old cry of ‘Wolf!’ until he finally
failed to heed, and that was the very time
Burton climbed over the stern and knifed him.
Avery Cole nodded his head. He was a
fool!” he stated simply. “When a woman of
her breed -loves”- He spread his hands
81 tossed down his drink.
“They sailed yesterday for Canton, lie said.
“As for Courtney—well, he didn’t know his
East.”
November Wine.
The clover hangs wine pennants out
You are drunk, prim bees, but I will not
tell;
November brew is the vintage now
From the clover tankards you sampled well.
The red wasps gossip along the leas
Of the terrible drinking amongst the bees.
The gum boughs quaff of the limpid air,
The grass sips juices of earth and dew
And I am one with the mad, sweet spring
And subtly drunk on the thought of you.
For who is there would not reel m rhyme
On a theme of roses and scented thyme.
QUEENSLAND.
M. DORREST.
Anchor Chanty.
Sons of Satan’s daughters
Wed to salt and sin.
Bend your aching bodies,
Fetch the mudliooks in!
Green the roads behind you,
Grey the roads before ;
Heave away, my hearties,
And around once more!
Clanking through her hawse-holes
Comes the rusty chain;
Pray your doubtful sea-gods
H'ere it may remain
Till the coast o’ Chile,
Rising from the sea,
With a sailor’s promise
Gladdens you and me.
Gal upon the pier-head
Lookin’ down her nose,
Who’s to find her money?
Who’s to buy her clothes?
Bend your backbone, Bully,
Nought to do with me;
Yonder comes a black tramp
Homing from the sea.
She will get another
Silly sailor man ;
Round the capstan, Johnny,
Waltz it as you can ;
Lay your famous whiskers
O’er the capstan bar;
Think of dark Dolores
In a port afar.
Bound for Valparaiso
Round the roaring Horn,
Sing your anchor chanty
Bravely in the morn.
Loud, my lads, and lusty
Raise the gay refrain
Of a creaking windlass
And a dripping chain !
All the streets behind you,
All the seas before,
Bend your backs together
And around once more!
Round, my little sea-birds,
Singing as ye stride,
Till ye haul hope’s emblem
Neatly overside!
Walk it up, my beauties,
Sons of dooks and cooks,
Till you see your homeland
Clinging to the flukes.
(With the little sea-shells
And the seaweed frail
Which the mermaid uses
To adorn her tail!)
Sighing through the doldrums,
Smiling in the Trades,
Watching for the shorelights,
Pining for the maids,
Chawin’ junk and biscuit
For a hundred days,
We’ll be out and going
On our watchful ways.
Dodge the Wolf Rock, sonny,
’Scape the Seven Stones —
Terra-del-Fuego
Still may get your bones!
Seaweed in your pockets,
Sea sand in your shoes,
And mayhap another “missing”
In the shipping news.
This is what it comes to:
Do as you are taught;
Riding forty fathoms,
Keep your cables taut;
Loose the jib and stay-sail
On a leeward tide
Ere you fetch your anchor
O’er a vessel’s side.
Lee and second emblems
Safely in again,
Cat and fish your mudliooks,
Home the blistered chain ;
Then, a fair' wind blowm’,
On your journey’s end
You are like to drop it
Safely at Gravesend!
Home it is, aye, aye, sir!
Now she swings about.
Lav aloft, my heroes,
Shake the dish-rags out.
Never was a stout ship
Better manned nor found;
Sing, my famous bullies,
For the Outward Bound.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


ď
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Queensland Agents—HUliMKs cc CHI/KCH, Brisbane.
N.iS. Office—B3-107 Featherston Street. Wellington.
Victorian Office—'“Chancery House,” 485 Bottrke Street, Melbourne.
Bontli Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH it CO., LTD., Adelaide.
S.A.
Ufie
“BRISBANE COURIER”
IS THE GREATEST ADVERTISING
MEDIUM IN QUEENSLAND
Advertising figures have proved over years that both Local and
National advertisers regard the “Courier” as the greatest daily
newspaper published in Queensland.
For the month of August the “Courier” carried almost 1000 cols,
of advertising, or approximately 24,000 inches of advertising more
than its contemporary.
THE “BRISBANE COURIER” IS
FIRST IN CIRCULATION, COVERAGE, ADVERTISING
AND INFLUENCE.
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper Co., Queen Street, Brisbane.
Rep.: Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 85007.
“THE AGE”
Established 185 j J.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you wish to stimulate the interest of the
Victorian public in your products, digest these
facts:—
Over 123,000 persons purchase “The Age”
daily (60 per cent. Metropolitan area,
40 per cent. Country districts).
Over 96 per cent, of the copies purchased
are home delivered to subscribers.
Over 95 per cent, of the home deliveries
remain in the house for the womenfolk
during the day,
and
Over 1,000,000 advertisements are pub-
lished in its columns annually.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation
123,533.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
"The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
Cbe Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price 1 id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. ' Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, ‘‘The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Che mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
carries regularly a far greater total
volume of advertising than any other
newspaper published in Tasmania.
IT is thus, judged by the use made oj
its columns, the most popular
as well as the most powerful oj the
newspapers oj Tasmania.
PROFIT by the experience oj the
1 leading national advertisers, and
place “The Mercury” first when
advertising is under consideration.
Average Net Circulation, 20,967.
IT is, undoubtedly, Tasmania’s ablest
* and best conducted newspaper.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
If amy illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
EYES BRIGHT
m.
i -'fvwi
y-y;
mmmmm
>+:<•*>
:•:• •v:*\ •>••<
V»v
Bright eyes — clear eyes reveal *
cleansed system working m ha*
mony—a system from which real health
is obtained. Let the whites lose
their brilliance, let them become dim.
dull and discoloured, and it tells ot
Constipation— elimination is irregular.
incomplete, or both. Biliousness.
Headaches. Flatulence are other
symptoms.
The remedy is simple Beecham’s
Pills. This famous medicine does
its work gently and thoroughly—
is not habit forming. Beecham’s at
night will soon put you right.
““‘.SShaM's pills-
WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX
Bep e
CnuL
CHEER. OP .
HAVEN’T YOU HEARD
ABOUT ARTHUR T COME
ALONG 'WITH US’ AN’LET
HIM BREATHE SOME MEASLES
OH YOU - HAVENY YOU
"JT A PENNY ?y^~^
Mi
YES, WE HEARD
l ABOUT HIM-AN IVE
lV GOT A PENNY, BUT—
i
£
The Cute Comedy Boys in their Weekly “Talkies.”
CHILDREN, YES, AND GROWN-UPS TOO ENJOY
THE PICCANINNIES’ PAGES IN
Qj/ie
AUSTRALIAN
WOMAN'S MIRROR
3d.
ON SALE EVERYWHERE
3d.
đ
0
*1
0°
e
6>*
&
%
s e
\A* 9
&»V"
C®’
**
‘ c*Vtf&s*>
\V^'
W"


♦ ♦ ♦ It merits
your entire confidence
2 1 7
*nn> f n
y
it
mm
C
M
£
u
L
2?
CT_7
New
Motorists have long placed
their trust in the absolute
dependability of Dodge
Brothers cars. For back of
the Dodge Brothers name
lies an enviable record,
zealously upheld, for fine
and efficient manufacture.
Now, in the new Dodge
Brothers Six, to the security
that inspires complete con-
fidence, have been added
new beauty, new comfort
and new superiority of
design and decoration, thus
offering a further measure
of assured value.
Dodge brothers six
Chrysler Motors Product
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
d
$-4 Waymouth Motor Company Limited, Adelaide
W.A. Winterbottom Motor Company Limited. Perth
Tasmania: Co-operative Motors Ltd., Hobart.
