

ft
I
ir\
Pictures
ahead!
A whole Summer’s fun coming!
Bring home the friendships
and the laughter and the
sunshine in easily - made
Kodak snapshots.
m
3
You’ll want
this Kodak
Smartest and newest of models
—the compact, efficient and
well - equipped Pocket
Kodaks, backed by
the world-wide Kodak
reputation for quality.
V r*
u,
i <
■
am..:
ii
M
s
»v»
Wla£
MAGNIFICENT VALUE-SPLENDID PICTURES.
No. 1 Pocket Kodak, for pictures
2\ x inches. Price, 52/6
No. la Pocket Kodak, for pictures
2\ x4\ inches. Price, 51/6
Also available with higher grade lens and shutter equipment
at a slight increase in price.
Of all Kodak Dealers and
Kodak
(Australasia) PTY., LTD.
379 George Street, and 108 Market Street,
Sydney. “The Block,” 284 Collins
Street, and 161 Swanston Street, Mel-
bourne. 250-52 Queen Street, Bris-
bane. 45 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
662 Hay Street, Perth.
Ruthven Street, Too-
woomba. Flinders
Street, Townsvill
East Street, Roc
hampton, 2£
Lam b t o
)uay, We
lingtoi
N.Z.
/
ji
The Bulletin
w
Vol. 50.—N0. 2591.
Wednesday, October 9, 1929.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


-THE 1929 LIBRARY CATALOGUE is
A now ready, and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
TmJOCK'S BOOJ\ ARCADE. LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
THE TIMES LITERARY SUPPLEMENT
posted weekly for one year, 17/4.
THE TIMES WEEKLY EDITION, weekly
25/- per annum.
Address Subscriptions to THE TIMES
(Australian Office),
255 a George Street, Sydney.
LLUi
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON I
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne,
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
SB
ŵ
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
AUCE
rrn
s>-.
HW 3
l-l
©
Bounding enthusiasm; clear eyes and skin;
Thrilling Energy and Sparkling Health!
What brings these benefits? —Cream of
Yeast! See, when you take this modern
tonic remedy, how depression and lethargy
go; how headaches and skin troubles be-
come things of the past; how people
exclaim: “My word, you do look well!”
Try Cream of Yeast yourself. All chemists sell it.
24 tablets, 1/11; 48 Tablets, 3/6; 125 tablets,
5/0. Note the name:
CREAM
OF
YEAST
Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building, Sydney,
and all Chemists.
ẁ
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3<L
Contains everything a woman needs to know
ẃ
pj.mn np smijd
,S/)N3A,™p'
The first rough suggestion—the skilful
and accurate working out, the sharp
detailed drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
constructive effort, call for the use of VENXJS
PENCILS Whether it be for the building of a
battle-ship or the design of a simple household
article, the pencil is the first requirement: the
VENUS the first pencil.
ẅ
17 Blacklead Degrees 68-9 H sd. each -4/9 per dozen, Super Copying (Medium 6c Hard) 6d.
each • 5/9 per dozen. Venus Copying (Medium & Hard) 4d. each - 3/9 per dozen.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germicide
and Antiseptic known, being destructive to all forms
of bacterial life. They keep the mouth in a sweet,
healthy condition.
Suited for Old and Young.
For the cure of Cpughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bron-
chitis, Influenza.
Unlike cough medicines, HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL
JUJUBES do not interfere with the digestion; on the
contrary, they have a beneficial effect, as their Anti-
septic Properties prevent abnormal fermentation of
the food, and thus tnev prove helpful to sufferers
from Indigestion and Dyspepsia if taken after food.
Sold Everywhere in Tins, Price 1/6.
® \
A. The Larynx <h
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
0. The Bronchial
Tubes of Dissected
Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
«t Un Luufis,
The Red Page
The Censorship of Books
The prosecution of a bookseller for re-
tailing Marie Stopes’s “Enduring Passion”
and the banning by the public libraries of
Erich Remarque’s “All Quiet on the
Western Front” are Maoriland’s recent con-
tributions to the campaign of literary com-
stockery. The first book was regarded by
the authorities as indecent, the second too
coarse for a generation whose recollections
of the war are presumably to be confined
to the two-minute silence on Armistice Day.
Fortunately', the magistrate who had to pass
judgment on the product of the much-
maligned Marie was experienced enough
to see the force of the argument that a
wider dissemination of the art of marital
love would lead to a marked reduction in
the matrimonial causes that crowd the
courts. The information was dismissed.
It is a fashion to deride the Philistine
prudery of Boston, with its criminal prose-
cutions against Sinclair Lewis’s “Elmer
Gantry,” Dreiser’s “American Tragedy,”
Upton Sinclair’s “Oil” and Elinor Glyn’s
“Three Weeks”—a novel that to-day could
not raise a thrill in a boarding-school
flapper. Regard our own record of culture!
In 1857 Lord Campbell piloted his criminal
obscenity bill through the House of Lords
despite strong opposition from Brougham
and Lyndhurst. A plagiarist of the worst
kind, Campbell is described by Chief Baron
Pollock in one of his letters published in
a recent biography as neither honorable
nor honest. But it was not until 11 years
later that Chief Justice Cockburn in
Hicklin’s case laid the scent for the Vic-
torian book-hounds. “I think,” said he,
“the test of obscenity is this, whether the
tendency of the matter charged as obscenity
is to deprave and corrupt those whose minds
are open to such immoral influences, and
into whose hands a publication of this
sort may fall.”
Now the pack were off in full cry, claim-
ing as first victims the Malthusians, Charles
Bradlaugli and Annie Besant. In 1889,
Henry Vizctelly was sent to gaol for pub-
lishing Zola—in an expurgated edition. The
sale of one of Havelock Ellis’s studies, of
incalculable value to the medico-legal
student, caused Ellis, following the banning
of his work on “Modesty,” to forsake his
country for America. The publishers of
D. H. Lawrence’s “Rainbow” were convicted
in 1915 and fined heavily, and within the
past year universal attention has been
attracted to the prosecution of Miss Rad-
clyffe Hall’s “Well of Loneliness” and Miss
Norah James’s “Sleeveless Errand.” The
former is a passionately sincere book, with
an underlying motive of seeking greater
charity on the part of the public for the
homosexual; but, despite protests from a
number of distinguished authors., it was
ordered to be “burnt,” the magistrate, Sir
Chartres Biron. considering the theme more
adapted to a scientific work than a novel—
a viewpoint that ignores the essential fact
that as a scientific treatise it merely reaches
the few whose outlook on the subject of
sexual aberrations is unlikely to be other-
wise than charitable. To the “Sleeve-
less Errand,” which caused the Crown
Prosecutor to pour such a torrent of abuse
upon the head of the publisher, Maorilander
Eric Partridge, different considerations may
apply, for it is an arguable question whether
the conversations and actions of a crowd
of neurotics and decadents, even though
these and the stratum of society they repre-
sent are mercilessly exposed, can be any-
thing but, pornographic. Arnold Bennett’s
indignation gets the better of his judgment
when he writes to the Evening Standard
that the effect of the book on the young
reader “would be to destroy in him all
immoral and unconventional impulses for
ever and ever.”
The whole flaw in the argument for
censorship lies in the last sentence. For
the most part, the books that are attacked
would never reach the young, and, even if
they did, would be neither assimilated nor
understood. The symbolism of Cabell, the
stodginess of Dreiser and the intricate
sensualism of Lawrence demand a know-
ledge beyond that possessed by the fanciful
youngster. Yet the real danger of censor-
ship is not here. Where it defeats its
own object is in directing attention (by
the publicity it arouses) to the worst,
features of the work it censors. So Walt
Whitman was able to buy his Campden
home out of royalties from his “Leaves of
Grass,” which the Bostonians tried hard to
suppress.
A similar situation is created when the
circulating libraries decide to ban. What
people cannot borrow they will buy. Every-
where the sale of Remarque’s novel has
been phenomenal. And rightly so! It is
the most poignant book on the war and
has been accepted as such a powerful tract
for peace that endeavors are being made to
obtain the Nobel Peace Prize for its author.
The libraries have a good deal to answer for.
They banned Hardy’s “Jude the Obscure”
and heaped such annoyances on him that
they nearly drove him out of fiction alto-
gether. They persecuted George Moore to
such an extent over “Esther Waters” that
he took reprisals by publishing his “Mum-
mer’s Wife” in one volume at six shillings,
thereby smashing the censorship exercised
by means of the expensive guinea and a
half “three-decker” novel which filled the
shelves of the local Mudie’s. Exasperated
beyond measure, he said, “The English
novel is made so that it will fit in with the
‘Maiden’s Prayer.’ ” And thus do the
libraries save us from coarseness in 1929,
40 years later.
W.E. LEICESTER.
Making Us Popular
The very day I read John Dailey’s article
“English and Other Minds” (R.P. 28/8/’29)
I ran into Mr. Perrin, who for 30 years was
butler to the Duke of Newmarket. He has
now retired, having made a fortune butling
and backing racehorses, and is touring the
world. I understand that the Duke has
secured the post of caretaker at the Jockey
Club.
Mr. Perrin tells me that Australians would
be far more popular abroad if they did not
so closely resemble the English middle-
class. Mr. Perrin thinks more of a pint of
ditch water than he does of the English
middle class.
He confided to me that Australians
cannot put on sporting kit, and the Eng-
lish middle class fall down in the same
matter. To wear hunting things with the
air of distinction which comes of being
born to it. one may resemble a gypsy horse-
thief, but .never a hairdresser. Indeed, no
English bourgeois, nor Australian of the
highest sheepbreeding, should attempt to
appear in sports costumes; they cannot
understand those little things which mean
so much. The position of a button above a
riding-boot; the placing of a spur; the way
a hunting-whip is held in the hand, may
cause a man to be classed as a rank bounder
far more than his strolling Bond-street
dressed in spats and cigar band.
Sartorial experts cannot help in such
matters.
Mr. Perrin suggests that Australians visit-
ing Europe and desiring popularity, should
abandon all things conventionally English
and take with them original costumes and
develop really marked individuality of
speech. For fox hunting, one might appear
in sombrero, fur coat, oxfords, port and
starboard colored elastic sides, and a white
umbrella lined with green. A capital golfing
suit could be dungaree pants tucked into
sea boots, pink dress-coat, hardhitter with
bow at back, and, of course, spurs and
spats. In dealing it out to the pheasants
in the long shrubbery, knee breeches, frock-
coat and high hat, with crape fly-away,
would be most excellent.
No doubt, after appearing in those cos-
tumes, and attaining a manner of speech
to suit, Mr. and Mrs. Hitea would receive
a command to Windsor Castle, and might
walk with elbows in the faces of the middle
classes, ever afterwards loved and respected.
BEN GUN.
Lawson in the Market-place
C. H. Bertie, Sydney Municipal librarian,
recently echoed a published suggestion that
Henry Lawson’s first book, “Short Stories
in Prose and Verse” (1894). was issued in
an edition of 500 copies, of which a con-
siderable number were lost because the
printed sheets slipped off the cart that was
conveying them to the binder’s. I have
always considered this suggestion as part
of the business propaganda of our ingenious
booksellers—honestly endeavoring to in-
crease a £250,000 annual turn-over of stock-
in-trade ; or hopefully struggling to attain it.
Within the last six months I have both
bought and sold copies of the book at 2s.
6d., which, in my opinion, is a fair present
value. Any price is individually fair if you
pay it; the legal maxim enjoins the buyer
to guard himself.
Louisa Lawson, publisher of the book, told
me long ago (and I write from a written
note of the telling): “I printed 1000 copies
and gave 500 to Henry. We sold a few
copies and distributed some through the
Dawn [Mrs. Lawson’s valiant organ of
womanhood in Sydney, during a dozen
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


V
m.
he hottes
'm
I
4,
,jr ,m h
m
urn
/ %|[|H\\\\w\|
Jhll
n fit UV\U 7 !I\IIU
ii u‘
m
i" 11 ,,, up
111
w
■m K ' juv
/ (Itlllllllfllli
iv UOIMMM" 1
mu
iii urn
uM
ill
=J-
H
k
CS
u
*
w
Chilcott Refrigerators from £4/17/6
Chilcott Refrigerators are scientifically designed and
expertly made in our own factories. Thoroughly
seasoned timber is used, the insulation is as near
perfection as possible and the internal cavity walls are
lined with “Risistoid” and packed with specially-
prepared doe hair. The internal construction has
been improved by the substitution of Ply Wood instead
of T. and G. liningboards, and the whole strengthened
by adopting square corner posts in place of battens.
Model illustrated above is in oak, medium golden finish,
corners rounded, Ice Chamber strong gal. steel one-piece seam-
less porcelain-lined Provision Chamber. With two shelves.
Overall Sizes—width 23in., height 4 Uin., depth 1 Bin.
Provision Chamber—width 1 7*in., height 1 Bin., depth Mm.
Price
Similar Model, with Ice and Provision Chambers of gal. steel,
and one shelf only.
Overall Sizes—width 21 in., height 39m., depth 16m.
Prov. Chamber—width 1 6in., height 1 6in., depth 12l J 4/17/g
Model at Left shows a large-size Chilcott Refrigerator suit-
able for store, etc., in Jap. oak medium golden finish Ice
and Provision Chambers lined heavy-gauge gal. steel, htted
extra strong ice tray and wire shelves.
Overall Sizes—width 48in„ height 53m., depth 22*in.
Ice chamber width 35in., height 10m., depth 1 5 _
Price
Model at Right shows Chilcott Refrigerator in oak, medium
golden finish, Ice Chamber lined heavy gal. steel. Porcelain
lined Provision Chamber, 2 shelves.
Overall Sizes—width 29in., height 56*m., depth 22m.
Prov. Chamber—width 22in., height 28in., depth ' 7^ g .
Price '
ŵ
If you cannot get Ice the Trafalgar
Cold Safe will solve your difficulty. Food,
etc., kept cool and fresh by water-cooling.
No. 1 Size, 20 x 18 x 14 in. Weight, 391 b.
Price £3/17/6
No. 3 Size, 26 x 23 x in. Weight, 591 b.
Price £5/10/-
No. 5 Size, 32 x 28£ x 24 in. Weight, 851 b.
Price £7/15/-
Nos. 1 and 3 have 2 shelves.
No. 5 has 3 shelves.
y r-i
COLD SAFE
i
ẁ
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
’Phone: M 2401,
Day and Night.


(mm
IONIfAM
'//.
m
i
A
V
'.// * t '
/'.V/-A'
;;
to
All
to
Many thousands of beautiful women use no other soap but
Rexona and they are unstinting in their praise of it. New users
write us that they wish they had tried Rexona Soap long ago.
" It’s wonderful, and once used no other soap will do,” they say.
So, to introduce the wonderful merits of Rexona Soap to every
woman we offer a pair of sheer pure silk stockings free. Juct
think what this astounding offer means. For giving yourself the
benefits of using this real Health and Beauty soap, you can get a
pair of silk stockings as a present to your stocking drawer.
Real silk —no cheap artificial silk —and absolutely free !
A pair of these beautiful silk stockings can be yours in whatever
size or whatever shade you desire. All you have to do is to start
right away and collect the wrappers round every Rexona Soap
tablet. To our constant users these stockings will be an added
delight. To our new users the attainment of skin beauty and the
gift of a pair of silk stockings will bring unbounded delight.
Health and Beauty go hand in hand—attain to the Rexona
Beauty standard by using Rexona Soap—enhance that charm
by a pair of beautiful silk stockings.
Price 1/- per tablet.
ẃ
Rexona Soap
RS3OUL


(&
7/
x\
•H
§35
Now We’ll
Get The
Best Results
THE performance of your radio depends largely on the
working of your batteries. Anew “B” or “C" battery
will often put new life into your set But how long does
this improvement last?
Winchester Radio Batteries give you strong, clear reception—
not only when they're new, but over a long period of time. Put
these lively, long-lasting batteries into your set and, day after day.
night after night, you will enjoy the best results.
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A.
•WINCffESTCK
TRADE MARX
RADIO BATTERIES
years], Henry sold his copies; and, when
he came to me later on, I gave him what
we had left.” Mrs. Lawson did mention
that some of the sheets had slipped off the
cart on a wet day; but she attached no
importance to the matter. Subject to cor-
rection from Miss Gertie Lawson or another
on the spot, I believe that she did not
lose a dozen copies of the edition.
A.G.S.
What is Background?
The Australian Literature Society (Mel-
bourne) lately staged a discussion on “Aus-
tralia Lacks a Background to Inspire
Romantic Writing.” The affirmative
speakers relied on scentless blossoms,, song-
less birds, sheep, strikes and sport. The
most convincing speaker among the defen-
ders of Australia dealt with the romance
of early exploration by sea and by land and
of pioneer settlement. There were various
other arguments: Australia had diversified
landscapes—forest, plain, mountain, valley,
river—of entrancing beauty by night and
day Australians had written romantic
literature, but they couldn’t do so now be-
cause of inadequate remuneration.... Aus-
tralia had an excellent background, but it
wasn’t necessary, as her writers could, like
Shakspeare, be cosmopolitan in their set-
tings There were all the elements of
romance in our cities, but young Australia
wouldn’t read about familiar places....
Australians had a wonderful inheritance in
the legends of the aborigines.
Several speakers gave a definition of
“romance,” but no one thought “back-
ground” needed elucidation. It was vari-
ously interpreted as historical tradition, a
substratum of intellectual culture, aboriginal
folk-lore, and a material landscape with
native flora and fauna. Of what stuff is
this background which our country is said
to lack?
FINN.
An Australian at Large
It is rather a pity that George Meudell,
author of The Pleasant Career of a Spend-
thrift (Routledge; Angus and Robertson),
did not gather in the course of his remark-
ably varied experiences the knowledge that
the writing of a preface or foreword to a
book is almost always unnecessary and
often dangerous. His autobiography is un-
usually crowded with good stuff, but his
foreword would scare most off going any
further, including many who would decline
to take second place even to Mr. Meudell
as admirers of Australia. Here is the manner
of it:—
My travels in 40 countries, covering 400,000 miles
by land and sea, on over 400 ships, and through
about 600 hotels, allow me to claim I have travelled
further than most Australians.... I have not been
able to find a better country than my own Aus-
tralia.... The traveller does not need to go outside
Australasia for sightseeing, or to see the best, get
the best or do the best this planet affords. All
these years of travel over the Seven Seas have fixed
firmly in my soul and mind the belief that my native
land, Australia, is the best country and the Aus-
tralians are the best people on the g10be.... Ours
is, perhaps, the purest breed of people living. ...
The Australian is a superior being physically. Other
nations do not produce such a high proportion of
able-bodied men and women as the Australian nation,
because Australians are essentially livers out of doors.
....My travels in 40 countries in every region of
the globe enable me to judge, and without reserve
I can declare the Australian woman is the healthiest,
sanest and most beautiful in the wide w0r1d....
Our Australian boys and girls are better educated
than those of other > nations.... Our best teachers
and professors are Australian-born... . Our Australian
children, all instinctively musical, with sweet,
natural voices and alert, bright temperaments.
It is a stiff hurdle, and the ghost of it
crops up every now and again along the
course.
There is no blue atmosphere like ours elsewhere,
nor is there any color in the sky like Australia’s
m any country. There is no country of all I
have seen can compare with Australia chromatically.
So far as the science of colors goes, for diversity and
beauty our country leads and leaves the world far
behind it.
The best Englishman who came to Australia was
Captain Cook, because he found the best country
on the planet.
Sydney is the most beautiful city on earth
....and so it goes on. It suggests the
whitewashing of what isn’t an unsightly
edifice. If every word of it were true, to
shout it would still be blatant.
Mr. Meudell fears America as a menace
to Australia, and is proud that a pure strain
is here which that country has not; yet the
whole tone of his book rings of American
derivation. No Californiac of the Cali-
forniacs could better this wholesale boost-
ing:—
The business immigrant who goes to Australia to
set the pace, to keep the Australian business man
up to the scratch, must take care he is not run over
and killed during his first spurt. To the end of
1925 Australia had produced £1,129,000,000 of
minerals, and has per head the soundest public
debt, the most bank deposits, the most savings bank
deposits, the best birth-rate, the lowest death-rate,
the finest land laws, the best wool output, the most
sheep in the world. Australia also produces the
best horses, sheep, cattle, meat, butter, rabbits,
champagne, sugar and fruit known to merchants.
Australia has the greatest silver-mine, the best
Hw e rt mlne i« a i!? t hft ,ar S est tin-mine, as well as the
biggest coalfield in one spot on earth. Our trees
are the highest, our coke the purest, our zinc the
cleanest, and our oil shale beds and brown coal
seams the most extensive on the globe. Our import
and export trade is the largest per head, and so
is our local shipping. Taxation is the lowest
epidemic disease the smallest, crime statistics the
lowest, milk supply and food the purest, and old-
age pensions at one pound per week the highest
warZth and TonH ity ' I™"*’ we * et more sun
warmth and good weather than anv place outside
southern Europe, and our population weighs more
and measures more than any other people.
Such hurdles are all the stiffer to take
because the impression left by the book as
a whole, which is the only thing that mnt-
ter» much, is not nearly so cheerful. His
chapters on the land boom and boomers
of Victoria before the great crash perform
the miracle of making masses of figures not
only interesting but actually exciting. But
they do not accord very well with the
reiterated theme song in the impression
they leave on a reader. It is fair reading
that “the most splendid specimen of the art
of imagining—the basis of a prospectus—
ever perpetrated in Australia” was the
author’s draft of the Australian Assets Pur-
chase Company, and all the hectic finance of
those days is good reading, too. But it is
a rather disheartening splash in the picture
that to-day “the same cycle of financial
prodigality is being run by the people of
Australia,” and that the
monstrous public debt of over £1,200,000,000,
owing by 6,000,000 people, mostly babies, is a
finger-post pointing to trouble, disaster and suffer-
ing. City and suburban values are inflated, and all
the vacant land within 20 miles of the Melbourne
G.P.O. has been sold at prices that discount its
value for 25 years.
Mr. Meudell claims to be The Bulletin’s
oldest contributor; has missed three for-
tunes, one of them attaching to a fascinating
diamond-mine in India, where every bucket-
ful of dirt had diamonds in it and where a
disreputable caretaker played alone on a
table with uncut diamonds for pawns; he has
belonged to many clubs; known many im-
portant men; dabbled in theatrical enter-
prises (nobody should appreciate that ad-
jective better than himself); has founded
political societies; has stood for Parliament
and been “splendidly beaten” by a grocer,
a school-teacher, a shearer and a fruiterer;
and has, after it all, reached the axiomatic
conclusion:—
Personally I do not believe gratitude exists in any
human being. It is a mythical legendary sentiment
peculiar to dogs.
He is anything but a pessimist, however.
“I am giad to admit,” he says, “that I
have spent a very happy life crammed full
of varied experiences.” No one who reads
his book should question the “crammed”
and the “varied.”
A Satchel of Books
The Dark River, by Norman Springer
(Murray), is a Malayan adventure story in
which nothing is quite so hard to believe as
the Hibernianisms of Dr. McToole. An
acceptable present for a not over-sophisti-
cated boy.
The Bolt, by P. R. Shore (Methuens),
is a murder story in which the proceedings
are viewed through the eyes of a maiden
lady. The characterisation is exceptionally
good, and the atmosphere of the remote Eng-
lish village is captured with skill and charm.
Nicky, Son of EotJ, by Gerald Rullett
(Heinemann), is a masterly picture of life
amongst a section of England’s near-poor.
The story is primarily a study of the rela-
tions between a father and son who are in
close communion, but it also describes youth-
ful panics with sympathy and insight, and
it has pathos and humor.
In Java, by John C. Van Dyke (Scribner;
Robertson and Mullens). An unusual travel
book. The writer is either an artist or that
rare bird a critic who understands the essen-
tials of art. He sees color with the vivid-
ness of a painter and lays it on in its right
relationships. In describing the island of
Bali in particular he creates form in words
as solidly as a sculptor does it in marble.
Hell and the Duchess, by C. A. Nicholson
(Chapman and Hall). The author has one
of the most effective weapons in the armory
of sensationalism —complete humorlessness.
H’er Duqhess bears no resemblance to the
care-free British noblewoman of tradition,
who “cried Hell! and shook her wooden
leg.” The Duchess de Trigues is a modern
De Maintenon, who organises disgraceful
fetes at her chateau in Sarthe, and after an
existence which makes that of the looniest
movie star seem humdrum “seeks another
hell,” by means of poison. Gleaming out of
this murky trash, like fitful shafts of light,
are some sound writing and a striking por-
trait of one English girl.
That Capri Air, by Edwin Cerio (Heine-
mann) is the mortal identity disc of portion
of the ethereal. The mere introductory
remarks concerning the author made by
Francis Brett Young—with Norman Douglas,
Louis Golding and R. W. Reynolds entered
as translator —prove it no ordinary book.
Cerio, says Mr. Young, was born at Capri,
the son of an East Anglian mother and an
Italian father. He was born an artist, and
for that reason became a doctor, and, later,
a naval architect:—
Because he was ah engineer of genius, a bad
sailor, and knew nothing whatever of commerce,
Krupp.... chose him as sole South American repre-
sentative. And since his own particular branch of
study was submarines—he was always happier under
the water than on its surface —his earliest published
work... .is concerned with the design of fishing boats.
On the outbreak of the World War, with a logic
that seems, somehow, out of the picture, he joined
the Italian Naval Construction Staff in Rome, and
was so successful there in affairs of the strictest
secrecy and so disliked automobiles that, when the
war was over, the Fiat firm decided to entrust him
with the whole of their publicity.
Then lie went to Capri and wrote “Aria di
Capri,” which was so successful that he
immediately abandoned literature and sought
a political career. “He appears,” adds Mr.
Young, “to be dissatisfied with ‘Aria di
Capri,’ and already lias his eye on another
work. But whether, having achieved this
pagan fantasy, he will embark on a work
of Christian realism, or abandon literature
altogether for the invention of helicopters,
is more than I can guess.” “Pagan fantasy”
is only one of the names with which Mr.
Young tries to capture the ethereal. He also
uses “essays” and a “Capri style in short
stories.” They are not quite either. They might
be called “short stories written by a true essay-
ist. or vice versa,'' which at least is as far from
the mark as are Mr. Young's definitions. All of
arcadian Capri-—its administration, resi-
dents, tourists, flowers, sewers, trees, birds,
rocks, myths ; its Old Spadaro, its creator of
the Certosina liqueur, its Mr. Mac Gong:
above all, its air (the air which so demora-
lised Mrs. Mac Gong. which has brought 100
francs a bottle, and has given heirs to the
aged) all of arcadian-Capri lives in it. Not
everyone will like it, but.those who do .will
like it intensely.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Milling J.; Bright, but just a little too
hard to swallow N.K.S.: Off our beat; and that’s
a pretty long one P.D.W.: We tired at the
sixth sheet. You tired long before that G.T.: So
he worked “with the tigerish zeal of a donkey engine.”
Couldn’t you bring in the busy bee, too, and
make a menagerie of it? M.K.: A pretty little
thing, but too little.... J.W.: Work reveals decided
promise, though the stories are not suitable for us.
.... J.F.F.: That type of varn requires more skill than
you show.... Resem: Not keen on either “the parrot-
faced woman with an eagle eye,” or “the dove-like girl
with raven hair” 13: Unlucky it was E.N.:
Pass the medicine J.C.: “Four Walls” a bit shaky.
....C.F.M.: That was a terrible dream.... A.T.A.:
Du11....M.G.: Now you’ve gone and made us break
another Commandment... .E.N.P. ; The idea of a
“maiden calm of mien and virtue laden” takes a bit
of living down... .W.McE. • “Gone-song”-no, it
won’t do it.... J.C.8.: “Spring” is sprung... .J.G.:
“Isles” too windy for u 5.... Islay: Sorry: they’re not
up....G.D.: Monotonous sort of rhvme scheme....
inn , a i 4.u £ ■ ii ri * ~
J.C.C.: A little bird that can talk like that ought
At, Vv,, 4-i rt tt ui v t
to be on the hustings Cyclo: Unsuitable, but
far from horrible... .J.L.N.B. Like our poetic booze
a bit stronger....N.T.: “Gallery-Sally Lee” isn’t a
... r ti a i. .v i
rhyme; it’s a crime... .L.0.D.: Accept assurance that
it represents dusk in an Indian jungle.... M.D.: “Wild
Grass” is also wild verse.... Upson Downes: Must
have been one of your down days... .E.J.M.: Better
keep it for the reunion.... M.T.: You struck the
open season for orators. . . .M.W.: “Hope” has none.
....Atherton: All your effort hasn’t been wasted:-
T , .. ... . ~ . , „
I’ve quit writing for your blasted Paper,
The Editor is just some silly straper—
Lackihg wit and common-sense,
And the Proprietary appear devoid of pence;
So why cut such a silly blooming caper,
W r asting ability and my midnight taper?
Payment will include fourpence extra for the mid-
night taper R.: A bit off our track A.P.A.:
Don’t care for that 10t.... J.L.W.: The vote was
“Just Fair” 8.G.J.: You don’t make much of the
item Demosthenes: Rhyming “day” with “canary”
is its best point. .. .W. 8.; You’ll need to do better.
.. . R.G.McD. ; “Prayer of a Crippled Athlete” failed
to move referee in pay-office Comet: Regarded as
first attempts, they’re not striking... . K.A.A.: To
scoff is the last thing this Column would think of.
But truth obliges us to say that the verse is
in the plasticine class A.W.N.: “Summer Night”
too much like all its kind....E.C.: No harvest
on the “bora-ground”....J.E.: “The Sprung Poet”
fails to live up to title... .P. 1 ,: “Twilight Music”
sounds canned.... K.H.: “One Brunette”-you ought
to have guessed we’d be gentlemen... .E.T.0.: That
joke’s grey hairs have gone down in sorrow to
the shave ...T.H.J.: Wish you’d get a new type-
~ _ ~,, „ . . .
writer... .V.P.: Old Sol has a win:—
With lightening thrust along the ridge, across the
bridge
Sd-wK.'tt.'sa
Proclaims another victory and another day.
O.S.: Too faint....G,E.V. : Might go all right
in prose W.Y.S.; Verse entitled “Give Us Oil”
returned, marked “Try Mussolini” M.S.: “Night
Wind” blew itself out Jai Ess: Passed on, as
requested F.P.: Fair to ragged Mick Magee:
To ° lon ff for what it tells W.D.0.: Better let
those unfortunate airmen rest Lawden: Go ahead
and P aint the picture W.T.: “Brave Old Fuji
San” doesn’t carry our money this ga110p.... H.McE.:
Prophecies in season:—
We’re proud of you William “I can,”
And we couldn’t have had better man
„ To £ ive bim fair due !< tban William M. Hughes,
He wH yet as boss ™ le Bena - can '
•• • • H.MfcM. : Can’t use, though it makes its point.
D.L.AV.: “Joan” is on her way home L.E.M.:
worry at ah; reminiscences not quite suitable.
Philistine and Critic fighting it out in
the re t urn envelope. .. .J.R.K.: Beaten at the bar-
rier... .E.M.H.: Interesting old-salt yarn, but not in
a 101111 " e rou l d use.... Gadfly: No bite... .Patty
Nca a thril .l in it -• • G-G,:No need to go to
? hlna for weeping brides.. . .P.W.: Still not satis-
L 0 • • • J-E.D.: Far too long and too p00r....
: a ‘ hl ”« of ra «?
E.A.L.O K: Don t trouble to re-write it... .H.W.Q.:
„ ... , . . ~ , , „ .
Sorry; this one’s probably right, but all such notices
, ' , ~ 1 .. , , f.,
have to be authenticated We ve struck more than
°ne that was wrong Dequett: The sooner they’re
sent in the better. The judges began their prelimin-
J „ „ -kt x
ary sarvey on oc *: No. he wasn t-
??• T as t tbe public officer appointed
ln N - S ’ W - t 0 s f ttle lodos tnal disputes. . Bottle-
"ose:vT°°, uash y- •• -Cheerio:: The same to you,
but what does 11 all mean ? ' • • A movie motive
and a movle mimng-camp... .P.J.R.: Realistic but
repulsive R.W.J.: A sound decision; hope study
. , , „ „ _
Wlll lm P ro '’« your f tyle ’ I' : f° thlng strOl ’ g ln
except the drink... .W.E.8.: All sauce and no
oyster... .A.G.C.: A little artificial... .H.P.: Makes
a story, but the material is old T.W.S.: Child
episode strains probability to breaking point....
M J. : Detective story doesn’t stand the acid
Bray: No, Monash is a Lieutenant-General. The
British field-marshals are Plumer, Allenby, Robertson,
Birdwood, Jacob, Milne, Methuen, the Duke of Con-
naught, King Alfonso and the King of the Belgians.
’ .
ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
mpnrcPONnrxTS
CORRESI ONDLNio.
J.A.S.: You’re 20 years late with that gag....
C.E.C.: Rival freelances would sleep easy after eee-
lnS your work.... D.L.C.: You have a sense of
humor, but you’ll have to learn to handle a pen....
Flopped. .. .J. 8 .: No, you won t get an urgent
telegram asking you to Join the staff.... T. 8.8.: All
reacbed the basket... .DS : Kit and Kat shan t
across our pages... .J.L. ; Too stiff B.S :
Nef> d . a b. and s. after seeing it. R.J.M.F.: A
distressing collection... .V.E.C.: You 11 do no good
. ‘ s . ... . , ~ . t,
till you stop putting shaky little lines down hap-
hazard.... F.H.J.: Caricatures of oversea celebrities
Jlo t often required; yours are poorly drawn, anyway.
)r, rr, it." l ” “t:?
around the Fedeial Capital with labels hanging lound
their necks; in the same picture we’ve got to show
Queensland. Afraid your idea of what can be
crowded into a picture is defective.


w
ŵ
■
-
V
H*
wm
iWmmt;- PH
■ $
I
4
/
I®*
\
V.
■
\
7\
-
M **
:
#
: y
• # •
and f/ie dmile that Wm 4


The Bulletin
Vol. 50. —No. 2591.
October 9, 1929.
THE INDUSTRIAL CIRCUS.—ONE RINGMASTER TOO MANY.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
21. J George Street, Sydney; Box 252188.
Victoria: 11J/-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 2.;9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Regent 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 )s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdomlioz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional J,oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: \oz. or part thereof,
Id. FAsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
TIIE CENSORSHIP OF BOOKS 2
EARLY EDITIONS OF HENRY LAWSON,
by A.G.S 2, 5
GEORGE MEUDELL’S “PLEASANT CAREER” 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . . . 5
“One Ringmaster Too Many”
A Cartoon by Leason . . .. .. .. 7
EDITORIALS . . .... . . 8, 9
Order or Chaos ? 8
What Should Our Uniform Railway
Gauge Be ? . .. .. 8
THE SURRENDER TO HOLLYWOOD . . . . 8
RECENT JAPANESE MOVEMENTS, by
“Feng-Shui” .. .. .. .. .. 8
PICTURES FROM RUSSIA 9
N.S.W. LEG. COUNCIL REFORM—
A Cartoon by Scorfield . . .. .. .. 9
POLITICAL POINTS 10
(With sketches of the three leaders in action.)
POVERTY POINT 11
“The Little Digger”—
A Cartoon by Percival . . .. . . 11
PERSONAL 13
(With a caricature of Theodore, Labor’s
Campaign Director.)
SOCIETY (with drawings) . . .. .. 14, 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..16
FRITZ HART’S OPERA IN MELBOURNE . . 16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
Dunlop Perdriau .. 18
MYER EMPORIUM ... 18
AUSTRALIAN DISTILLERIES 18
A. G. HEALING 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 23, 25
Free Service Department ..26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 32
FEEDS AND FEEDING 28
VALUE OF YOUNG GRASS . . .'. . . 28
IS CULTIVATION BEST FOR ORCHARDS ?
.. .. 28, 32
SMOKE-OH 34
PEN AND PICTURE. . 37
ART SHOWS .. ... 37
THE INKY WAY 37
SPORTING (illustrated) 39, 41, 42
A.J.C. Spring Meeting .. .. .. 39
V.R.C. Flemington • •• ..39
BUSINESS, ROBBERY 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 45
SPRING RACE FROCKS 45
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 48
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 50
“PARADISE PLUMES” .. .. 47, 51, 52
COMPLETE SHORT STORTES—
“THE ORDEAL,” by W. Charnley .. 55, 57
“BULLDOG BLAKE’S LADY,” by D. W. 0.
Fagan .. .. .. ~ .. 57, 58
“DOPE,” by Charles S. Gilmour .. .. 58
VERSE.—By Ethel Davies, Roderic Quinn,
Llywellyn Lucas, Ronald McCuaig. .52, 55, 58
Next Week.
Untold Tales of Bully Hayes—“Belmore
Sue.”
In this story Albert Dorrington tells of one of
the most amazing exploits of “the last of the
buccaneers.”
[For all matter in this issue requiring a signature
under the Commonwealth Electoral law, where it
is not otherwise specified S. H. Prior, J. E. Webb
and James Edmond, all of 214 George-street, Syd-
ney, accept the responsibility.]
ŵ
ORDER OR CHAOS?
It has been asserted on a thousand plat-
forms that Bruce-Page had no mandate for
the introduction of the Maritime Industries
Bill, as the measure to do away with the
Federal Arbitration Court is called. A
vast amount of rubbish is spouted and
written about mandates. The underlying
theory is that Governments must confine
their legislation to subjects mentioned in
their electoral programmes; and that is
nonsensical and worse. Every responsible
Government has a mandate, none the less
solemn because unwritten, to make laws
dealing with foreign war, civil commotions
and other emergencies as they arise. On it
rests the duty of preserving order and pro-
tecting citizens in the exercise of their
rights, and this also is immeasurably more
important than anything in a party plat-
form.
The Bruce-Page Government had to deal
with a situation in which the Timber
Workers’ Union, supported by scores of
other unions, nearly all registered under
the Federal Arbitration Act, was in revolt
against the national authority as delegated
to the Federal Arbitration Court. Because of
Constitutional limitations and the lack of
Federal police, it could not enforce respect
for the Court, could not protect men who
were willing to work, could not disperse
the mass pickets or break up the basher
gang. It had asked the people to make
the Constitution effective on these and
related points and the people had emphati-
cally refused, the adverse majority (the
fourth in 15 years) being close on 400,000.
It had also to remember that the timber
workers’ strike had followed hard upon a
strike of waterside workers, also against
the Federal Arbitration Court, a strike
which not only laid every public wharf in
Australia idle but was marked by fierce
riots and a deadly campaign of bomb-
throwing.
And the Government which is alleged to
have had no mandate was moved by other
considerations. Australia’s two systems of
wage-fixing, “the rival shops,” with the com-
plications introduced by yote-catching
politicians and Communist strike-promoters,
constitute the most staggering burden under
which industry is laboring in any part of
the English-speaking world. Australia is
lagging behind in the industrial race with
other countries, particularly the U.S.A. and
Canada, and excessive regulation is the
obvious cause. Its lawyer-controlled arbi-
tration mills grind slowly and expensively
(it is nothing for a Federal case to drag
on for years and cost one side £10,000);
and yet there is no finality about the busi-
ness, no security. Where a Federal award
conflicts with a State award or enactment
the Federal award should prevail, but when
this was insisted on in the N.S.W. metal
trades there was a long strike. The Federal
award for that industry specified a 48-hour
working week, and the State Labor Govern-
ment passed a Forty-four Hour Week Act;
and though law and honor were against them
the employees struck for the shorter week.
Doubtless because of that experience, the
present N.S.W. Government is paying rail-
waymen working under a Federal award
48-hour-week rates for 44 hours’ work. By
manufacturing disputes in two or more
States the railway unions have virtually
brought the State railway systems under
the financial control of one temporary
Federal Arbitration Judge, the 77-year-old
lawyer, John Quick. This philanthropic old
gentleman has handed out increase after
increase, in effect ordering the State tax-
payers to find the money, for the railways
are being run at a loss of six millions a
year; but when the rain of benefits ceases,
as cease it must, what guarantee is there
that these unions will obey their Federal
awards? None whatever. At least one of
them has actively supported the timber
workers’ strike. What guarantee is there
that any of the 90 or 100 federated unions
that financed the timber workers will not
strike if it thinks its own award unfavor-
able? None whatever.
Bruce-Page proposes not by any means
to abolish industrial arbitration, but to
leave it to the States, which have power to
enforce awards within their territories. It
suggests no more than the shutting of one
of the rival shops. It is opposed on this
issue by the Labor party, which shouted for
the timber workers and shut its eyes to
the proceedings of the mob pickets and the
basher gang; and by half a dozen self-styled
Nationalists and odds and ends, headed by
Hughes. Some of these opportunists don’t
care a dump for Federal arbitration, but
they are all after Labor votes in their
constituencies, and they all loathe Bruce.
A victory for the Government will give
the country a chance of political stability
during the next thr'ee years—which are
going to be difficult years—and will be a
necessary step towards educing order from
the chaos of the past 12 months. On the
other hand, if the Government is defeated
the chaos will remain and grow worse as
awards are issued on a falling market,
and political stability will be a distant
dream.
THE SURRENDER TO HOLLYWOOD.
Federal Labor has made such a habit of
subordinating principle to expediency that
little surprise was felt when it espoused the
cause of the moving-picture magnates in the
matter of the proposed taxes on their busi-
ness. From supporting Marks in Went-
worth, where 18,539 Labor votes were polled
last year, to echoing the silly cries of that
worthy and his fellow-spruiker Duncan
about the “ruination of a great industry”
was but a step. Still, the surrender to
Hollywood is a saddening departure from
“the cultivation of an Australian sentiment,”
for which Labor stood in the past and
professes to stand still. It is enough to
make dead-and-gone Labor men turn in
their graves.
Bruce-Page proposed, in the first place,
to increase the duty on foreign films from
IJd. to 3d. per foot, no change being made
in the rate on British films, and to tax
purveyors of amusements —not picture-
shows alone—s p.c. on their total receipts.
The Bulletin warmly approved of making
the film duty 3d. per foot, having contended
for years that it should be that much at
least", but did not care for the impost on
gross receipts, and said so, preferring, for
one thing, the restoration of the old tax
on entertainments, with the exemption
brought down to ninepence.
But the moving-picture “industry” for-
feited whatever measure of sympathy it may
have been entitled to by the extraordinary
campaign into which it plunged in an effort
to defeat the taxation proposals. Picture-
screens and flapper papers were mobilised
against the Government; a rain of threaten-
ing telegrams descended upon Canberra; a
Cabinet Minister was commanded to leave
the business of the nation and attend a
meeting of city showmen, who would
give him his instructions; a private member
was told that if he didn’t acknowledge the
menacing messages addressed to him the
sender would drop from the clouds by aero-
plane and beard him in his den. And the
sinister campaign succeeded for the time
being, inasmuch as the vain Marks cast
the vote which made the Government’s
position untenable.
Bruce and Page, while hitting out sturdily
at the alleged “industry” (which doesn’t
add a shilling to the wealth of the nation
and has recently sacked hundreds of Aus-
tralian musicians, all union men and
women), have altered their proposals to
the extent of exempting smajl showmen
from the tax on receipts and going after
per cent, of “the payments made to
persons outside the Commonwealth for
non-British films.” This film-hire tax, at
least, should command approval. Mr. Lang,
when Labor Premier of N. S. Wales, satis-
fied himself that the Hollywood gentry were
paying little or nothing on the vast tribute
•they received from Australia. He tried to
make them pay by the income-tax route,
but was handicapped by geographical and
constitutional limitations. Convention for-
bids him to support Bruce and Page in
this matter, but in his heart he must know
they are doing the right thing.
But what does Mr. Scullin say? That
“the proposed new imposition cannot be
justified.” What does Mr. Theodore say?
That the Government is “making a paltry
attempt to extract money from the child-
ren’s entertainment.” That “Labor will
abolish the amusement-tax.” If' additional
revenue is required, the gentleman says,
it must come from direct taxation on large
incomes and large landed estates. Then
Mr. Scullin and Mr. Theodore would heap
more burdens on resident Australians, from
whom Commonwealth and State are already
taking half their incomes and more, and
let the American film kings go scot free.
And these are the leaders of the “Aus-
tralian” Labor party!
WHAT SHOULD THE UNIFORM
GAUGE BE?
It is admitted on all sides, and has been
admitted almost since railways began, that
the mixed gauges of Australia are a dis-
aster. The latest politician to attempt
the purchase of a term of office and salary
and patronage by exploiting the well-worn
woe is the exceedingly amateurish Scullin,
who has promised to put a uniform gauge
in the “forefront” of his “progressive works
programme” if paid in advance with the
biggest prize in the political bag. He
doesn’t even hint how he will find the
money for the job, or even the money to
deal with the Federal lines which are under
a Federal Government’s control; or how
he" will get the power to deal with State
lines which are not under its control. His
party says it could get all sorts of power
by abolishing the States and concentrating
all authority at Canberra; but how such
little men hope to achieve so big a revolu-
tion by mere self-assertion passes human
understanding. And the revolution would
leave money as scarce as ever, or more so.
So the community doesn’t believe Scullin,
and greatly doubts if Scullin believes
himself.
If the people would take the trouble to
understand the position, it would at least
be a beginning. In 1928 there were 12,535
miles of 3ft. 6in. line on the mainland, that
being the prevailing gauge, even if the
alleged 4ft. contraption is the “stand-
ard,” as the familiar gag goes. It isn’t
our standard. The 3ift. is the nearest
approach we have to uniformity, and it
is unanimously accepted in Maoriland, Tas-
mania and South Africa, so it is fairly
popular.
In addition to its 12,535 miles of 3M’t.
railways the mainland has 6963 miles of the
alleged standard (British standard) and
6038 miles of 51ft,. measurement (Irish
standard) and 362 miles of three other
standards. The 362 miles of toy railway
are best left out of the debate, which is
mixed enough without it. So, when the
talk of uniformity is sifted and the
gas separated from the wheat, all the
distance which even the gassy proposition
has got is a proposal that, the 6038 miles
of 51ft. line should be changed to 4ft.
Biin. The 51ft. standard prevails in Vic-
toria and over about half of South Australia.
The change would only make the Victorian
minority system correspond with that of
N.S.W., and 1 it wouldn’t, do that if the
transformation broke down when quarter-
done for lack of funds, which is more than
probable. In that, case Victoria would be
left with two kinds of line in place of one,
and it might curse the day Scullin was
bom.
Not even the toughest political schemer
has yet ventured to promise that, he will
pursue genuine unity by converting the
12,535 miles of narrow gauge to the “stand-
ard” John Bull measurement,. The widen-
ing operation would demand new rolling-
stock, embankments, bridges, viaducts, cut-
tings and tunnels on a huge scale, as well
as a multitude of new sleepers; for though
the narrowing process is a great undertaking
if done with dear money and dear labor
and expensive politicians, that of widening
is practically wholesale reconstruction, and
would cost more than the original price.
That is why the last section (Perth-Kal-
goorlie) of the so-called transcontinental
line remains a narrow-gauge anomaly and
a blot on the enterprise to this day. So
gauge unificationists propose that South
Australia shall still remain a State with
two gauges, only they are to be and
4ft. Biin. instead of 3£ft. and sift. as at
present. And very many S. Australians
believe that if they allowed any political
confidence-trickster to meddle with their
property he would leave them with three
gauges instead of two, and with a heap of
wreckage. Then S.A. might even curse the
day Scullin’s remotest ancestor was born.
The 3ift. railway gauge is the standard for
Queensland, North Australia, Central Aus-
tralia and Westralia. That is to say, it
is accepted over 2,170,040 square miles out
of the 2,948,366 square miles of mainland,
and in addition it is one of the standards
for S. Australia (380,070 square miles),
while the 4ft. 82m. isn’t the other. The
3ft. 6in. railway is not only the most pre-
valent already, but it has practically the
whole of empty Australia to spread oyer.
The 4ft. Biin. shows no sign of spreading
anywhere except where it is already.
Things have changed; and now the only
visible chance of uniformity, which is quite
a different thing from the project of getting
a uniform line from Brisbane to Kalgoorlie,
is to recognise the prevalent narrow gauge;
to finish the South-to-North transcontinen-
tal accordingly; to do as little new construc-
tion as possible on the Anglo-Irish scales
(sft. 3in. and 4ft. Biin.) which have already
lost the battle so far as Australia is con-
cerned; to do any planning that can be
done with a view to genuine uniformity on
the principle that they must both go sooner
or later; and, finally, to tell apprentice
politicians like Scullin that they are bid-
ding for votes under false pretences which
are too thin to deceive an intelligent
infant.
AS THEY DO IT IN JAPAN.
I once called on a Japanese gentleman in
a suburb of Kioto. The front of the house
was in mid-Victorian architecture. There
was an electric pianola in the drawing-room
and a radio was blaring out a jazz ditty.
My host stood little more than five feet in
his elastic-sided boots, received me in
European costume and greeted me in a
language which was a quaint polysyllabic
mixture of Shakspeare and Harvard. Hav-
ing paid me this graceful compliment, he
slipped into a kimono and took me to the
back of his palace, where there was a
beautiful little dwelling in the Japanese
style, with a central garden little bigger
than a tea-tray, but so cunningly devised
that it gave the impression of a vast land-
scape of plains, rivers and mountains.
Squatting comfortably on the floor he re-
lapsed into easy conversation. He told
me, among other things, about his connubial
relations. A friend had said to him that it
was time he found a helpmate. He agreed,
and furthermore suggested that the friend
should find the appropriate lady. The
friend went back to town, selected a person
who he thought would be suitable and
forwarded her a couple of days later. The
marriage was celebrated and a lifetime of
domestic felicity has resulted.
This habit of erecting a European fagade
to an essentially Oriental structure is in-
grained in the Japanese, and nothing illus-
trates it better than the happenings con-
nected with their recent Cabinet crisis. It
is only a couple of years since 14 million
fresh electors were added to the rolls; yet
the manoeuvres connected with the fall of
Tanaka had as little to do with Western
ideas of democracy as my Japanese
acquaintance’s marriage had to do with our
ideas of what constitutes the basis for a
successful marriage. For all that, it was
actually the will of the people that operated.
The Tanaka Administration had lost the
confidence of the country, firstly, because
its policy in China ran counter to the fact
that the National Government now speaks
practically for the whole Chinese nation;
secondly, because it had not been able to
satisfactorily explain why the Chinese
Marshal Chang Tso-lin, of Manchuria,
had been killed in an area under Japanese
military occupation; and, thirdly, because
of its signing of the Kellogg anti-war pact.
The Chang case was tried in camera and
sundry high military officials were maiked
for punishment. The military clique, how-
ever quietly intimated that the sentences
would not be carried out. This made the
country restive. The trouble with the
Kellogg pact was that it stated that the
various representatives would sign it m
the names of their respective peoples.
But in Japan the people are the children
of the Mikado, and he is a descendant ot
the sun as well as a semi-constitutional
monarch. The whole country therefore
shivered at the insult contained in the
pact, and an appendix was hastily added
stating that in the case of Nippon the
offensive phrase meant something diffeien .
The damage was done, however, and
Tanaka knew that he / was _ dooane .
Although there was no machinery m Barlia
ment to unseat him, he handed in his resg
nation. Here, again, the curious duality
of Japanese life was demonstrated, tne
man who gave him his quietus wte '
Saionji, a man over 80, belonging to


THIS LAND OF LOTS OF TIME.
“Though threatened with abolition if the Labor party conies into power, the N.S.W. Leg. Council continues to argue about the constitution of a reformed Chamber.”
MUM: “Dad, the boys are in the orchard again. Why don’t you get a dog to keep them off?”
DAD: “You mustn’t bustle me, woman! Don’t you see Dick and old Bob and me’s still trying to decide what sort of a dog we oughter get!”
political party and having no acknowledged
status in the Constitution whatever. He is
the last of the Elder Statesmen who, with
the advent of democratic institutions, be-
came the buffers between the sovereign
people and the god-emperor. Prince
Saionji’s palsied head nodded emphatically
and Tanaka retired to the country to write
verses.
It is an interesting fact that this invisible
autocrat manages the affairs of Nippon
quite as well as elected representatives in
other countries. Above the passions of the
mob and the intrigues of the military and
naval coteries, and absolved from the neces-
sity of cadging to ignoramuses for their
votes, he is able to come to his conclusions
in a calm atmosphere seldom available to
ordinary rulers. The Elder Statesmen have
several times peremptorily ordered peace
and moderation when the newspapers and
the masses outside have been yelling for
military expeditions.
It is largely due to this extraordinary
system of government that Japan has fol-
lowed fairly consistently of late years a
policy of national conservatism. She still
clings to her invaluable Manchurian pro-
perty, but for the rest aims at internal
development for absorbing her annual in-
crease, now approaching the million. That
she cannot succeed indefinitely is obvious,
but the attempt is praiseworthy. With this
scheme goes a policy of national defence
which should make her impregnable. Shortly
the whole nation is to be given an exercise
in mobilisation. For a few days not only
the navy and army, but civil transport, com-
munications and manufactures are to spring
to attention and prepare to repel an im-
aginary invader. It is a sort of engineering
test out of which it is hoped the building
with the European front and the Oriental
back will emerge with credit.
FENG-SHUI.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The N.S.W. Railway Report.
Though it doesn’t use gutter language, or
disseminate absurd lies which deceive no
intelligent person, or make friends of bashers
and other criminals, the present N.S.W.
Government falls a good way short of the
ideal. While many things are badly wanted,
a strong, intelligent hold on the finances
is very badly wanted. Strike-makers,
bashers, Red revolutionaries and other
glaring evils may flourish for a while, but
they can still be suppressed, and put in
gaol, and disqualified as voters and members
of Parliament and of other public bodies,
when the right men take the matter in
hand. But a hopeless mass of debt can’t
be put in gaol or dispersed by armed force.
The Railway Commissioners’ report for
1928-29, the most despairful document of its
kind ever issued in N. S. Wales, is an elo-
quent commentary on the State’s financial
methods. The deficit is £1,839,386, of which
the Treasury has paid £BOO,OOO, and nobody
has paid the rest. A shortage like that can
always be made good for the moment by
taking the amount out of trust funds, after
the manner of the cashier who has backed
a.horse. In the end the cashier probably
goes to prison, and the Government defal-
cation goes into the permanent public debt.
As the position stands at present N.S.W.
has 5940 miles of railway, and it would pay
to close 1950 miles and sell the material,
because they don’t nearly pay working ex-
penses. Even if abandoned the interest bill
would remain, but it couldn’t remain any
worse than it does now. The position was
never so bad and never so likely to become
worse. The causes of deterioration include
child-endowment payments, constant in-
crease of wages through the awards of
Federal courts under the Federal arbitration
system, increased pensions, reduction of hours,
and other changes which involve increases in
the staff, the constant rise in the rate of
interest payable on capital because the
Government is always raising renewal loans
under dire compulsion in bad markets, and
to some extent the uneasy conscience of the
Bavin Cabinet, which has decided that it is
the right thing, in the interests of purity,
to charge the Railway Commissioners
£347,556 as the first year’s interest on the
cost of unfinished and non-paying lines for
which they are in no way responsible.
It is a frequent and easy device to blame
the age of the Commissioners for the accu-
mulated troubles; but even if the Commis-
sioners were 18 years old it is hard to see
that they could do any better.
The lines which shriek aloud for closure
are largely dead-ends, and their average
length is about 46 miles. There are 42. of
them against 28 a year earlier. During
the year someone scraped together enough
courage to close one of them, the miserable
scrap from Westmead to Rogan’s Hill, and
commence its demolition. Yet the Minis-
try, with all its alleged reforming instincts,
appears wholly unable to get out of the
habit of constructing hopeless new odds
and ends. In the year to June, 1928, 10
additions were mentioned as “under con-
struction,” varying from 73 miles down to
two miles. Last year, to June, 1929, the
report showed that
four line-iS, ranging
from 37 to 4 miles,
had been opened,
and that seven, in-
cluding a suburban
10-mile enterprise
which looks an exact
duplicate of the
Westmead. - Rogan’s
Hill .joke, are in
progress.
Some of the exist-
ing troubles are be-
yond the power of
a mere State Gov-
ernment to remedy,
but there is no rea-
son, except the diffi-
culty of abjuring
the old methylated-
spirit habit, why it
should borrow money
at outrageous inter-
est to* acquire more
derelicts. Until a
vast change eventu-
ates the ideal Minis-
KING BRUCE AND THE SPIDER.
“Try, try, try again!”
try should be proud to swear that
it hasn’t originated a single new line,
and that it has made a judicious
stoppage of several old ones, both
complete and in progress.
One reason for the much-complained-of
increase of charges is the effort to make
live railways pay part of the loss, on
freaks which aren’t even amusing, and that_
isn’t good for the live concerns and the
people who are served by them.
*
In the Clouds.
A favorite plea of those who would drop
anti-military training is that greater
security could be obtained by maintaining,
instead of military and naval forces, what
is vaguely referred to as “a fleet of aero-
planes.” Our own' General Chauvel, a
modem soldier of international reputation,
said recently that in his opinion the Air
Force as a decisive factor is negligible.
The contention has been now endorsed by
General von Seeckt, the brilliant young
Prussian, who has created Germany’s highly-
efficient standing army of 100,000 men since
the Armistice.
In future wars Yon Seeckt sees the vast
and unwieldy conscript-armies replaced by
comparatively small but intensively-trained
armies. Swift-moving ground forces and
mobile artillery are what he relies upon
above all. In effect, training, and again
more training, is the text on which he
preaches.
The Australian amateurs apparently pre-
fer a general condition of ignorance and
incapacity backed by an arm which most
of the world’s leading soldiers have declared
is of itself incapable of enforcing either an
offensive or a defensive decision.
—
Pictures from Russia.
Two English coal-mining unionists were
recently furnished by their employers with
a free trip to and
through Russia on
novel conditions. Ii
they found it the
paradise they had
persistently said it
was they were to
stay there, their
wives and families
being forwarded to
them free of ex-
pense. If thfey re-
turned to England,
it was part of the
bargain that they
should explain to
their mates why
they preferred a
capitalistic country,
infested by peers
and private enter-
prise. They did re-
turn, and with such
a report, that nobody
accepted the owners’
offer to continue the
experiment.
Their position was,
of course, very dif-
ferent from that of our Gardens and other
cranks and nuisances who attend conferences
in Soviet Land and come back with tales
of a workers’ paradise. The English workmen
visited Russia to see how they would like
to be plain “comrades” there—members
of the rank and file as they were in England
—and for their wives and families to share
their lot. The Gardens, on the other
hand, have not the least idea of staying in
Russia, or of being plain “comrades” of
any sort. But they consider that it would
be a pleasant arrangement if they could
make Australia a duplicate of Russia, they
being “commissaries” with very little respon-
sibility to the people or anybody else, and
with most extensive powers.
The conspicuous feature of the Soviet
Government is a sort of grotesque endless-
ness. The Revolution is 12 years old, and
it continues revolving as if everything was
still to be done. The country is apparently
no nearer being thrown open to free inspec-
tion as a completed institution than it
was at any previous time. The Legislature
isn’t elected directly by the people after
the manner of the French National Con-
vention in revolutionary days, but a multi-
tude of small Soviets, under rigid official
surveillance, elect a smaller number of
bigger Soviets, and the little supervised
fleas continue to choose large fleas till the
real Government somehow emerges. Capi-
tal punishment remains in full force for so-
called political offences, but the public isn’t
allowed to watch the court, or even count
and identify the victims.
The press remains a Government mono-
poly as at the beginning of the reign of
Liberty, so all chance of the 120 million
people expressing their frank admiration
of the Communist fraction which governs
them is nipped in the bud. The struggle
to abolish religion and substitute the official
atheism plods along its interminable way,
for the Soviet Government must needs be
abolishing and prohibiting something. Inter-
woven with this movement is the effort to
abolish every binding form of marriage,
parental control, the institution of the
family, and any antiquated distinction be-
tween legitimacy and illegitimacy. The
promiscuous life naturally spreads venereal
disease. Russia is a land where it is the
duty of everybody to be free under heavy
penalties, and the police are as active and
omniscient in looking up and roping in
people who aren’t free enough as they were
in Czarist days in their search for the oppo-
site kind of people. Secret agents stalk at
every corner.
Yet Russia is probably as well managed
as any country can be where the test for
any sort of office is that the office-holder
should be what Garden woidd be if, still
guiltless of any knowledge of financial and
industrial affairs, and drunk and demoralised
with authority, he was haunted by the dread
that if his innumerable prospective assassins
were not removed early, they might remove
him. The downfall of Robespierre, these
people never forget, came about because
he trusted the people and their represen-
tatives overmuch, and didn’t suppress every-
body before somebody suppressed him.


O^vEL/c*
|EsS&kJi£§gS£
Htgworxe wws^y
NET: IPINT6Ft r, 07$.
RED, WHITE and BLUE
WHISKY
Gaelic Special Reserve
DEARER BUT BETTER
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO., LTD.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN AGENTS: JAMES HENTY & CO., 499 LITTLE COLLINS STREET,’ MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: B. SEPPELT & SONS, LTD., 444 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
g^ el/ c
SPECIAL
tmkj
larvS
NFT
POLITICAL
POINTS
Theodore takes up the lofty attitude that
the inquiry being held in Queensland into
the affair of the Mungana mining leases and
other proceedings of the long-dated Labor
Ministry is “muck-racking.” Well, who
supplied the muck?
A rat, in political language, is a man
who changes his opinions and leaves his party
for another. A circular rat may be defined as
one who returns to his original party after
trying his luck with all the others en. route.
Australia has to find over £20,000,000 a
year to pay for what we buy from the U.S.A.
in excess of its purchases from us. The
clamor which goes up to Heaven when any
attempt is made to better the situation
Treasurer EARLE PAGE. He thinks his
Country -party will gain seats.
almosts suggests that Uncle; uses some of
the profit in buying Australian politicians.
Amusement taxes in general cion t seem to
arouse much excitement; but where the
U.S.A. is involved the outcry sounds as if
a brick had been thrown at the Ark of the
Covenant:
There arc 140 applicants for the job of
Government Resident in Centralia, which
carries a salary of £750. -plus £25 for enter-
taining. The entertainment allowance is
small, presumably because political visitors
are expected to be infrequent. The average
politician is averse to going into the heart
of Australia to see what his remissness has
done for the country; though when he gets
up in Parliament he knows all about the
place.
S. Aus. Labor did not run a candidate
against Dicky Foster in Wakefield last year.
Instead, it supported Maurice Collins, the
Country-party man, and put him in—Senate
figures for Wakefield show that it must have
given him two-thirds of his 18,813 votes.
And in the sequel Collins supported Bruce-
Page on the Maritime Industries Bill, reject-
ing the offer of a post in a Hughes Ministry.
Labor is naturally opposing him now, and
so—very foolishly—are the Liberals. There
is ill-feeling between labs, and Cockies in
S. Aus., and it is endangering what should
be a safe Bruce-Page seat.
M F. L. Jarvie, M.L.A. for Ashfield
(N.S.W.), who had to resign as the result
of a Royal Commissioner’s report, won the
by-election, but his majority was greatly
reduced. He 'wus refused tbe help of the
Nationalist organisation, and many National-
ists refrained from voting (there was a
reduction of 2070 on the 192< l»oll) ; on the
other hand, Lang’s
party strained. every
nerve. Jarvie is
really the represen-
tative of a minority,
669 electors who sup-
ported other candi-
dates having ex-
hausted their votes.
If this doesn’t
prompt the Bavin
Government to make
preferential voting
obligatory, instead
of optional, nothing
will.
The timber-work-
ers’ strike against a
Federal arbitration
award began last
January and has just
officially flickered out,
It died by instal-
ments, like the
snake which doesn’t
perish within the
full meaning of the
act till sundown;
the tail only gave
up the ghost in
N.S.W. when the
men were instructed
to go back to work,
which other men
had been doing for
months. To the last
half-minute, their
o ffi cia 1 s declared
that victory was in
sight, and there
wasn’t a single Labor politician with pluck
enough to tell them the truth and save
women and children from months of misery.
The Commonwealth cannot suppress mass
picketing, partly because of contitutional
limitations and partly because it has no police
force. The timber-workers’ strike was no
affair of the State’s, but the mass picketing
became so menacing to free institutions that
the N.S.W. Government proposed to pass a
law of its own and enforce it. The spectacu-
lar collapse of the strike is probably intended
as an argument that no such law is required
—not till wholesale bashing resumes. Also
Hughes and his pals will point to the official
finish of nine months’ furious defiance of the
Federal arbitration system as proof of a
deep-seated desire to treat the system with
the respect due to an aged parent, where-
fore it should be preserved as a jewel of
great price.
Named chairman of the Vic. Railway Com-
missioners in 1920, IT. W. Clapp was re-
appointed seven months before his. five years
term had expired. He is not the kind of man
to postpone bargaining until the advantage
is on the other fellow’s side, so he asked
the McPhersons what they proposed to do
this time. The reply was that his appoint-
ment would De renewed for another five years
from Sept. 17, 1930, at the same £5OOO p.a.
Opposition-leader Hogan protested that the
proceeding was “highly improper” on the
part of a minority Government that knew it
had not long to live; but McPherson replied
that he would accept the responsibility and
the odium, if any.
Supposing the Labor-Hughes alliance
comes out on top at North Sydney, will
William’s sole reward be the possession of
the seat and a lonesome position in the
The PRIME MINISTER. As fresh as a
daisy after an amazingly vigorous cam-
paign.
House, with both Caucus doors shut against
him? A precedent may possibly be found
in the case of Benedict Arnold. He was a
clever but erratic American general, who
believed himself under-rated by Washington.
So he changed sides and did good service to
the British, his local knowledge being valu-
able. But they made him a mere colonel,
and when the war was over he learned that
his hopes of permanent employment and
further promotion were nil , all the good posi-
tions being earmarked for old stagers who
disliked making room for a new arrival.
The Tlieodore-Scullin influence has secured
immunity from Labor opposition for Hughes
in North Sydney, Marks in Wentworth,
Maxwell in Fawkner, Stewart in Wimmera
and Tasmanian McWilliams in Franklin.
But Westralian Labor, which is a law to
itself in these matters, is putting Needham
up against Mann and the accredited Nation-
alist in Perth; and Westralian Labor is
right. It would have been a gross betrayal
of principle to compel the large body of
Perth Laborites to vote for one or other of
the non-Labor. candidates. Besides, even if
Needham doesn’t get in, he will poll well
enough, the other crowd being divided, to
give his party a good chance next time, by
appealing to the sort of elector who likes
to be on the side he thinks is going to win;
and this would have applied with even
greater force to Wentworth and Fawkner.
Suppose a Labor Government takes office,
with Marks, Maxwell and co. holding the
balance of power. Sooner or later these
gentlemen will turn it out. And then people
will say “Serve Labor right” !
In May, 1927, N.S.W. Premier Lang,
having fallen out with a good half of his
party, handed m the
Ministry’s resigna-
tion and formed a
new Cabinet out of
the elements which
had failed of elec-
tion to the old one.
Then he had to go
to the country and
was licked. He
made a late bid for
a big vote by pro-
mising to give the
Anglicans, in return
for their Cathedral
site in George-street,
Sydney, a better site
elsewhere and
£500,000 in public
cash. The Anglican
Synod is now be-
laboring the Bavin
Ministry for not
taking up the one-
man promise and
carrying it to Par-
liament as a respon-
sibility for which
the broken Treasury
was liable. Lang
possibly thinks in
his heart that the
boot is on the other
hoof. Having been
promised £500,000
the Anglicans should
have rallied up a
solid vote to put him
and his Scabinet
back in office, so as
to make sure of the money. Their failure
to observe the commonest rules of the game
lost him his job.
Suddenly mid-way through last week it was
announced that all films and other propa-
ganda attacking the Federal Government’s
proposals for taxing amusements had been
withdrawn. Maybe the attention of some-
body or other had been drawn to the fact
that, besides calling for the withdrawal of
mid-week racing, a substantial part of a
very influential movement begins to say that
more than one afternoon picture-show a
week is liable to get in the way of the
work that this country is so badly in need
of. In fighting off that proposal the picture-
show people will need all the friends they can
summon.
N.S.W. Labor raised so much monev (six
figures, as was admitted) for the Sydney
end of the latest strike against Federal arbi-
tration that it was broke when the electoral
fight for Federal arbitration began. The
official organ gloomily admitted on Sept. 19
that there was only £2 3s. in “the federal
fighting fund.” Thirteen days later “the unex-
pectedly poor response” was “causing consider-
able concern to the campaign committee.” But
on September 30 came the joyful announce-
ment that the party was issuing “six mil-
lion informative leaflets and. folders, 18,000
impressive posters, an electric newspaper, a
free newspaper, displays on the ferries,
1,500,000 how-to-vote cards, etc.,” besides
arranging for “big advertisements in the
Sydney newspapers” and “one of the most
magnificent displays Sydney has ever wit-
nessed.” This magical change in the finan-
cial situation is attributed to Bill Mahony
or some other stalwart having backed Phar
Lap.
Walsh Island dockyard is one of the few
N.S.W. State enterprises which are looking
up. Weary of running it at a big loss for
the benefit of loafers and strike-makers, the
Bavin Government intimated that the day-
labor system was off and piecework on, the
alternative being
the sale of the
concern to private
enterprise, which
would also mean
piecework. The
employees struck
for a while, under
orders, and then
bogged in to such
purpose that the
loss of £42,739 in
1927 changed to a
profit of £42,690
in 1928 and one
of about £BO,OOO
in 1929. Also
there was a sub-
stantial increase in
average earnings
per man and the
number of em-
ployees rose from
1250 to 2500. The
change has made
State enterprise, as
distinct from Bol-
shevik - controlled
enterprise, look
respectable, instead
of resembling the
occupation of
thieves
Labor-leader
SCULLIN He also
is confident —they
all are.
A Vic. loan of £5,000,000 fell due the
other day, and £612.000 was paid off under
the new Bruce-Page sinking fund. That
was the fund’s first success, and it wasn't a
bad one considering how young the institu-
tion is. But the loan was a local one, repay-
able in paper. If it had been an overseas
obligation, repayable in gold, the local sink-
ing fund would have been about as much
use as so much dead rabbit. Blessed (in
moderation) is the State, which has the least
foreign debt per head. Victoria, is in that
position, though the new generation of poli-
ticians may not know it.
A Labor candidate, one Clifford Banko,
has entered for North Sydney, where it had
been arranged that Hughes was to have a
clear run against Nott. Banko thus sup-
ports Hughes’s contention that political man
shouldn’t be a dumb, driven cow at the beck
and call of the party machine, but should
strike out a line for himself, as he has done.
The Labor Daily promptly defined the
situation: —
Labor electors who do not like voting for Mr.
Hughes must swallow their prejudices and support
him with their No. 1 votes It is imperative that
the Labor vote should be regimented behind Mr.
Hughes.
“Prejudices” is a novel term with which to
describe true-blue Laborism. But the main
point is that the Labor machine vote is to
be “regimented” behind Billy, . the anti-
machine man, who is bitterly against Banko,
also anti-machine.
There were 31 Scullidores with votes in
the last House of Reps., and the Indi man.
Jones, would not have been among them had
Cook been on hand with his nomination-
paper—the Senate candidates with whom
Cook was to have run carried Indi easily.
Moreover, three other Labor Representatives
bad just scraped in—Price by S 4 votes in
Boothby (S.A.), Culley by 128 in Denison
(Tas.) and Martens by 154 in Herbert (Q. ) ;
whereas the three smallest Nat.-Gocky
majorities had been Jackson’s 1254 in Bass
(T), Francis’s 1295 in Kennedy (Q.) and
Atkinson’s 1645 in Wilmot (T.). Counting
Indi as a certain loss, the Scullidores will
need a clear gain of eight seats if they are
to form a Government independent of the
Hughesiliers, and then their Speaker wiJ
have to be ready with his vote. . Noth-
ing is impossible in politics, but it will
astonish both sides if either gains eight seats.
“Sol Malaprop”: Windeyer, K.C.. should
have sought legal advice before he launched
his People’s Anti-party party. llis idea, as
I understand, is that a national convention
shall be called to give immediate effect to
constitutional changes, such as the abolition
of States. Nobody has power to call any
such convention. The State Legislatures
might send delegates to it if they were
agreed, which they never are, but if they
were they couldn’t give the delegates
anv powers. It would require an altera-
tion of the Constitution, per referendum
and all the rest of the fuss, to start a 'ega
convention ; and its decisions, if any. would
still have to be referred to the people who
generally vote no. Any alterations that Aus-
tralia wants can be achieved by referendum
if Australia really wants them. Hie diffi-
culty is to get Australia to want anything
very hard, even Windeyer.
THE LITTLE DIGGER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Dr. Nott said that he was serving at the
front for one-and-twopenee a day when Mr. Hughes
was waving flags in London for £6O a week.”
Here’s to tlie builder who never builded,
Save and except as a union sec.,
A stepping-stone unto billets gilded
For battlers gifted with gab and neck;
To the war-time preacher of smite and spare
not
Who knew in his heart Conscription good
But, when he was tested, let "I dare not”
Wait (as the cat did) upon “I would”;
Who found decision a burden bigger
Than on his shoulders he cared to lug,
And dodged it. Here’s to the Little Digger,
The Little Digger who never dug!
Here’s to the prince of war-advisers,
Noisiest in Britain’s darkest day,
Who’d have killed not one but a thousand
Kaisers
If words were shrapnel and shell to slay.
Here’s to the foremost and first of josses
Of the sons of Martha, and foe of Fat,
Till came a day when the grateful bosses,
The sons of Mary, sent round the hat.
Here’s to the man who shall live in story
As one who sat serene and snug,
Bright in a blaze of reflected glory,
The Little Digger who never dug!
Here’s to the impish mischief-maker,
Eager to mar and loath to mend,
Reckless wrecker and blatant breaker.
What can he get from it? Where will he
end?
Here’s to the leader with none to follow,
Here’s to the follower none may lead—
Doubtless a bitter cup to swallow;
Pity, bethink you, he well may need.
Yet he speaks his piece with a vicious vigor;
If words were bullets he’d surely plug
A goodly host with his tongue for trigger,
Our Little Digger who never dug.
214 GEORGE-STREET.
A. HAYWARD.


Poverty
Point
THE LITTLE DIGGER.
PATROL-ADMIRAL MARKS: “Billy, I wonder who you’re digging this grave for?”
“Vil N.”: He was cast out of the local
Union de Luxe’s orchestra pit by the
talkies, and had turned pretty sour. A fellow
unionist, who was standing him the price,
was doing his best to cheer him up, but he
proved beyond human aid. “Yes,” he moaned,
“and when I’m dead and get to Heaven,
I’ll find Pete dressed as an attache, mar-
celled halo and all, and they’ll be showing
the Heavenly Choir talkie version at three
identical sessions daily.” The friend in
need was a trier. “Never mind, he said,
“you might go to Hell, and then you can
play one of them saxophones they’re sure
to have there.”
“Consule Planco”: As one much, exposed
to the late Harry Rickards in his zenith,
I should like to put it on record that his
outstanding performance in my opinion was
“The Difference Between East and West.
In this moving ballad, ITarry, dressed m
the 150 p.c. dress-clothes he always affected,
with gardenia, and with red-silk “wipe
tucked into the left-hand side of his waist-
coat, had to portray the differing characters
of a wicked peer, Lord Ernest, and a humble
but noble-hearted coster. Lord Ernest is
playing cards in his West End club —probably
Brook’s or White’s —when a servant enters
with a telegram on a salver. laird Ernest
opens it, frowns and reads on: —
“Laday Ernest died 10.30” ; hang it, what a beastly
b°ah; _,,,
Spoilt this lovelay game of euchre; gentlemen, 111
play no moah.
Then the switch off to the humble room of
the good coster kneeling at the bed of his
dying wife. Tears and sob stuff by the
shovelful, and :
Th-a-at’s ther difference between Ea-ast and Wes-t.
“Cruiser” : Victorian Betty M. Davies can
probably claim a record for an Australian
playwright with “The Touch of Silk,” her
fine drama of the Digger and his French wife
in the Malice. Within the next couple of
months it is to he performed by repertory
societies in Sydney, Perth and Brisbane. It
has already been done in Melbourne, and
Adelaide amateurs are “inquiring.” The emolu-
ments are not such as the author of “Abie’s
Irish Rose” probably drew from that work of
genius, but they are something. Mrs. Davies
is at present engaged on the “book” of a
musical comedy based on the sojourn of the
British Defence Force in Shanghai. Harry
Burcher, who instigated the deed after read-
ing “The Touch of Silk,” has offered to in-
troduce the piece to the London producers.
“0. I. Saye”: “E.F.G.” (B. 25/9/’29),
mentioning the Vatican’s use of secular tunes
to help sacred words, reminds that it was
not always so. In the fourteenth century it
was so common a practice in churches for
sacred words to be sung to a popular secular
tune that in 1322 Pope John XXII. issued a
decree forbidding it. One set of voices would
sing the popular melody, while others wove
embellishments round it, but not so as to
obscure it. Hans Leo Hasler, of Munich,
composed a love song with the exquisite ail
of which we now celebrate the mystery of the
Passion. The practice was known even in
King David’s time. Psalm 22 is superscribed
“To the Chief Musician upon Aijeleth
Shahar,” i.e., to the tune of “The Hind of
Morning”) ; Psalm 45 “To the Chief Musi-
cian upon Shoshannim,” which means to
the tune of Lilies; and Psalm 66 was to be
sung to the tune of “The Silent Dove in Far
Off Lands.” Coming to recent times, ban-
key’s hymnbook contains the tune of “The
Soldier’s Tear” to words beginning “When
storms around are sweeping.” It also con-
tains a hymn “Rejoice and bo glad” to the
tune of which that idiotic and blasphemous
ditty “Hallelujah, I’m a Bum” is heard
nowadays. This version, by the way, has
taken a long time to reach Australia; it
was common in Canada 20 years ago.
“Izaac Email”: The just-dead Sydney
Tivoli had rigorous stage censors on its
own salary-sheets. Old man Rickards himself
knew that clean stuff made for consistently
good business. Hugh D. Mclntosh posted in
the dressing-rooms a list of words prohibited
on the stage, and Harry Musgrove once
chased an American comedian off the stage
and up the gallery entrance into Castlereagh-
street because he had mimicked effeminacy in
front of the audience. The Tivoli’s most
recent censors, however, were the Railway
Commissioners, who a few months ago
ordered the removal from all their stations
of a poster representation of two Parisian
dancers.
“Stephen Sink”: With the dearth of musi-
comedy singers Carrie Moore should be
coaxed from her pleasant retirement. She’s
as fit as ever, looks as young as ever,
and still has the voice of yore. Sister Elsie
is producing the old operas for Maoriland
amateurs, and sister Lily has been doing
Maisie Gay’s parts in “This Year of Grace”
and running companies of her own in Eng-
land. Younger sister Ivy has married well,
and lives in the States. Carrie Moore goes
off on a world-trip shortly.
“X.X.X.”: Old-time Sydney Tivoli audi-
ences could give a subtle and merry ha-ha
to temporarily undesirable comedians. After
the much heralded Jerry Spriggins (that
name will do) lvad been on the stage for five
minutes, the Tiv. audience decided they had
had enough, and began a monotonous chant:
“We want Spriggins. Bring on Jerry Sprig-
gins.” It was the manager’s night out,
and the treasurer was in charge. Treasurers
are born without a sense of humor, and this
one moved frantically among the chanting
gods explaining that Jerry was on the stage
at that minute. When another famous over-
sea comique was unmercifully birded on
his debut, Harry Rickards, hoping to high
Heaven that the artist in a fit of pique would
cancel his contract, said: “They don’t seem
to like you out here!” “Well,” was the
response, “they’ve got 16 weeks to get used
to me.” The Tiv. ghosts must have chuckled
at the last Tivoli birding. It was given
a few weeks ago—to a talkie comedian.
“Avon”: Among negro Othellos no one
has mentioned Ira Aldridge, the “African
Roscius.” J. B. Howe, a Shakspearean
actor well known to old Australian theatre-
goers, played lago to his Moor. _ Aldridge
appeared in Australia in the ’sixties.
“Tet”: “Lysander” (B. 25/9/’29) can-
not have heard a cultured English voice,
or he would not have suggested that Conrad
Nagel possesses one. Nagel certainly has
a cultured and pleasing voice, but it is
thoroughly American. Most Australians are
so used to the “You’ve-said-a-mouthful-bo!
type of U.S.A. voice that they receive some-
thing of a shock when they encounter the
other American sort.
“Cine Ma”: It is difficult not to fear
the worst from the screen version of “Jour-
ney’s End,” now being prepared by the
Gainsborough people in England. There
will be a woman in it, although there _ is
none in the stage play, in which feminine
interest is present much more vividly through
suggestion than it would be if the cast had
contained a flapper, much older than her
alleged years and probably self-conscious.
“Magis”: If, as is occasionally claimed,
the movie magnates are burning with a
desire for Service, I suggest to them that
they jointly set up in each capital city at
least one children’s theatre. In a recent
issue of the Melbourne Herald, out of lo
important pictures advertised, seven were
announced as ineligible for children between
the ages of six and sixteen. This closes
most of the bigger theatres to the young-
sters. There is no reason why a children s
theatre should not be run on commercial
lines, the juveniles and not uncomprehending
adults being the best judges of what is good
for them. Most children of my acquaintance
are bored to tears by the sort of picture
favored by their parents, and the slushy
sentimental story would probably be banned
from the children’s theatre. A second
thought suggests that such a scheme would
be doomed to failure. The children’s pro-
grammes would be so much more entertain-
ing than those served up to their elders that
discriminating grown-ups would rush them,
to the exclusion of the youngsters.
“Cauboy”: Maurice Murphy, sec. of the
new Vic. Professional Orchestra, is making
an appeal for his organisation to share in
the fund for the permanent orchestra. There
is something to be said for the proposal.
The pros, are on the whole more expert
musicians than the amateurs who at present
derive support from the rather limited bene-
volence. They have been playing a poorer
kind of music at the Auditorium, but that
is not their fault. They could easily turn *9
the symphonies and concertos if they had
more financial backing. If all the organi-
sations which diffuse their energies in futile
rivalry would combine with the V.P.O. a
body might be created that could give to a
work like Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony
more adequate expression than it got at the
Town Hall recently from players who were
largely callow students.
William Alfred Gibson, just dead at 61,
started taking an interest in the movies
when the first films were introduced to Aus-
tralia, and at the finish was one of the three
managing directors of Union Theatres. He
was also a director of Amalgamated Pictures,
Union Theatres Investments, Union Theatres
of Victoria and Australasian Films. An
0.8. E. came to him for fine patriotic work
done during the war and after.
“Adam Ant”: The Melbourne Showman,
commenting on “The Journey’s End,” which
is probably the best play of the year, re-
marked that on the opening night and tor
some subsequent performances the cap-
tured German soldier wore a forage cap,
but that now he wears a tin hat. I have
just been reading the play, and I find that,
the stage directions say that the prisoner is
to be bareheaded. I wonder why I ntz gets
a lid in Australia.
“Cauboy”: The pext recruit to the old and
established Firm may be Frank Neil.
That enterprising actor-manager-producer is
already responsible for half the plays now
running in Melbourne, and it is felt that an
amalgamation will benefit both parties. A
question that will be asked by all who
cherish the dignity of J.C.W., however, is
whether Neil will contine to appear m such
plays as “Charley’s Aunt” in between sit-
ting on board meetings. The thought of a
public symbol like Sir George Tallis talking
to interviewers about the future of the drama
in the afternoon and shedding the corsets of
the aunt in the evening would be dreadful.
“L. de Rideau”: The expensive “Show
Boat” will be dry-docked shortly at Mel-
bourne Majesty’s. The craft cost more than
a Trans-Atlantic liner. “Rose Marie will
be revived in its place, with that bright young
Victorian Marie Bremner in the name-part.
Marie understudied Harriet Bennett in the
origiiial production and did very well when
that lady took a week’s holiday.
“Lysander”: More people nowadays use
typewriters than pianos, so it is stiangc
that producers so exacting in their realism
about were-bats and ghostly trains are sloppy
in their treatment of the clacking machines.
The absurd poking at a portable done by
Mary Macgregor in “It Pays to Advertise
follows the inartistic use of the machine
in “The Squeaker” when Angus Collie dic-
tated (in the dark some of the time) at a
pace only a world’s champion typist could
have taken down, and the typer patted keys
in a manner that made no attempt at syn-
chronisation, much less speeding. The stage
won’t keep ahead of the talkies i£ it misses
on such elementary touches.


I
J
m
m
m
I
Wa
I
m
i
i
t
i
W
fr
IF
w.
m
m
f
m
»
#
M
s
H i
Wm M
§
I
I
i ,
m m
m
m
W
i
i
m* I
i
U
1
IF
I
41
m
%
Ni
m
%
m*.
'M
W" §
#
#
Hg
*f
f «£
1
if
w*
m
W§mmM
§
i
%
%
/
m
m
m
"Ss.
r
%
m
%
i
1
*
§
t
f
H
m
l
m
1
mk
I
I
I
m
i
3
MORE
—and better
Twenty-three “Country
Life 55 Cigarettes —not
merely twenty —for your
enj oyment. Cigarettes
of incomparable quality,
of absolute freshness,
made from purest Vir-
ginian tobacco. Cork
tips, of course, and
packed in tins.
For a fresh smoke, buy
“COUNTRY LIFE. 55
/or Y(y
15
/dr U
$/so in Tins of
50 & 100
A
D
I
II Hi I
£op
Q g
L'ep
Mr
*0
Made at RALEIGH PARK the garden factory —by
W. D. & H. O. WILLS (Aust.) LTD.


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers'
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
ẁ
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney.
23-25 HUNTER
STREET.
Plain Figures,
Cash Only.
When you come to
SYDNE Y
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike,
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom- |
modation early.
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
' B ed and
wakfast
tariff
,f desired
ẃ
PERSONAL
ITEMS
One feature of Bruce’s election speeches
was the improvement in the quality of the
repartee. Some of his Victorian meetings
were long bouts of verbal fisticuffs in which
the imperturbable Priminister usually got
the best of it. At Bendigo he was winding
up an argument by saying “If the general
body of people would get that into their
heads,” when an interjector roared “They’re
all mad!” Spruce carefully adjusted his tie
and then replied, “No, they’re not; you are
more or less isolated.”
A Parliamentary candidate who keeps to
the old fashion of full whiskers is A. G.
Huie, who stood for Ashfield (N.S.W.) as
an Independent, and his politics are as
TED THEODORE, the Labor party’s
campaign director.
antique as that fashion. For 30 years Huie
has been an enthusiast for a cause once
powerful: as secretary of the Freetrade and
Single-tax League he has done his best to
keep it unburied. League meetings nowa-
days ax - e usually three men and a dog, but
Huie still moves impressively-worded resolu-
tions, puts them to the empty hall, and car-
ries them unanimously.
The more Vie. Premier McPherson sticks
to the front bench and keeps a close eye on
the work of the House the readier he gets
in debate. He is acquiring the knack of
relieving the tension with a light touch.
The other night, after dodging brickbats from
the Labor Opposition, he was about to heave
one back at Prendergast. Brownbill inter-
vened with a plea that Prendy or
the biggest-hearted men in Vie. "Then,”
McPherson said, “he ought to be kind to
a down-trodden Ministry like this! The
unexpectedness of the mock appeal for mercy
made the dourest Laborites grin.
Father Simonds, a brilliant product of
St. Pat.’s College, Manly, has gained first
place against students of all nations in one
of the highest schools of philosophy in the
world —Louvain University. Last year
Father Simonds was on the professorial
staff of Springwood College. When he
applied for the Furlong bursary all other
applicants. withdrew. The gifted Aussie had
to wait nearly 20 years before the financial
way to European study was opened by the
generosity of the late Archdeacon Furlong,
of Sydney.
Dr. J. A. Leach, assistant-chief inspector
in the Vic. Education Department, has gone
where the good Nature-lovers go. For a
quarter of a century he was associated with
movements to preserve the dumb creatures
of the Bush He intended to leave the ser-
vice next year at the age of 60 and lecture
in Britain and America, but Death struck
him while an application to be allowed to
retire was under consideration.
It might have been better for the late Dr.
Leach if he had kept to field work as a senior
inspector in country districts and let some-
body else do the office work in Melbourne.
His “Bird Book,” published in 1911, with
a captivating introduction by Frank Tate,
will keep his memory green. Ballarat was his
birthplace, and he was grounded at the Cres-
wick Grammar School before going on to
Melbourne Uni., where he bagged a doctor-
ship of science.
Colonel Pembroke Murray, dead in Sydney,
was an interesting link with the storied past.
He was a son of Captain Murray, of the
Ist Royal Dragoons, who fought under Wel-
lington in the Peninsula. Colonel Murray
himself served with the N.S.W. Permanent
Artillery, and remained on the strength when
it became part of the Commonwealth forces.
He twice visited South Africa during the
1599-1902 Bqer War. He it was who wrote
the “Official Record of the Australian Mili-
tary Contingents,” a valuable compilation
now almost unobtainable.
If Kalgoorlie wants to be represented in
the National Parliament by a mining man —
which it never yet has been —it has one offer-
ing in W. F. Greenard, who nominated at
the last moment against the sitting Laborite,
“Texas” Green. Greenard was one of the
first batch of mining inspectors appointed by
the Forrest Government, and he has stuck
to the service for over 30 years, the second
half of the period on the Golden Mile, where
he had risen to be senior inspector. No one
in Westralia has descended more shafts
or traversed more drives. Greenard never
neglected anything that could make for the
safety of miners, and the unions have always
had a good word for him.
There was never a finer example of human
fortitude than Harold Moorhead, who died in
Caulfield (Vic.) Military Hospital recently.
With right arm and leg blown from his body
on Gallipoli, Moorhegd was placed on a hos-
pital ship bound for Malta. At his own
urgent request he was kept on the vessel,
and after being operated on he actually
returned in the ship to Anzac. There Bird-
wood made the indomitable youngster the
text of an address on heroism. Sent back
to Australia, Moorehead became editor of
Melbourne Herald’s motoring column, chair-
man of the Vic. Repatriation Board and a
member of the McCaughey Trust. He was
only 36 when his war wounds settled him at
last.
When Frederick Mead, the Marlborougli-
street magistrate, retires this month he will
deprive assailants of the English police-
court system.of their favorite object-lesson.
Newspapers have been demanding his retire-
ment for over a decade. He was called
to the Bar 60 years ago, has presided over
London’s most important police court for
40 years, and has been deaf for 20 years.
His method of overcoming his disability,
according to liis critics, has been to rely
completely on police evidence. At 82 this
thin, pale, white-haired, mask-faced man is
the oldest occupant of any Bench in the
English-speaking world.
Cardinal Dubois, who died in Paris the
other day, showed marked interest in Diggers
of all denominations when Archbishop of
Rouen. In an oration to the faithful of one
of the French units which talked mutiny,
after Nivelle’s failure in 1917, he men-
tioned the “iron discipline of the Aus-
tralians” as “a virtue to be imitated by all
patriots.” Though an aristocrat he was a
good republican, and he did much to destroy
the prestige in Parisian society of Daudet’s
Action Francaise, which is trying to give
France another Bourbon king.
History is silent as to who was the tallest
man in Haig’s army, but Frank Wittman, a
Glenferrie (Vie.) chemist, was probably the
shortest. Wittman coxed the Wesley College
eight to victory on several occasions. Refused
enlistment in the A.1.F., he paid his own
passage to England and obtained a non-com.
position in the water chlorination service of
an Indian division. His shop lias a coun-
ter expressly built to suit his diminutive
stature, and there is a special seat in his
motor-car. Incidentally, his heart is as
big as they are made anywhere.
Ex-Senator Myles Ferricks, Colonel
Cameron’s opponent in Brisbane, is person-
ally popular, particularly with the militants.
When Theodore beat him for the Herbert
ARTHUR
UPJOHN, the
organiser of the
“Rose Day” appeal
for united charities
in Sydney.
nomination in 1925
there were loud
protests from those
gentry, and the ill
feeling led to a big
informal vote at
the election. Fer-
ricks is bound to
do better than jour-
nal i s t Frank
Burke did. The
difficulty for him
is that the big-
ht earned Fight
Horseman has a
habit of polling
substantial majo-
rities with less
campaign fuss than
any other politi-
cian in Queens-'
land.
For the -Wilmot (Tas.) Assembly seat,
vacated by ex-Premier Lyons, orcliardist W.
E. Shoobridge has been elected. Born in IN4(>,
Shoobridge is the oldest Assemblyman in
Tas., if not in Australia. He is an abstainer,
a non-smoker, a local preacher, and a much-
travelled collector of information concerning
the use of water for power and irrigation,
information which he spouts on every pos-
sible occasion.
Ben Wilson, general manager of the M.L.
Tourist Department, who passed over sud-
denly a few days ago, at 59, was well known
and well liked from end to end of the Shaky
Islands. He was private secretary to Rail-
way-Minister Oadman in the days of Seddon,
and for 15 years to lOUseph Ward; then lie
was the first registrar of the Arbitration
Court before he managed the tourist resorts,
which he did for 19 years. Always cheerful
and happy, and consummately tactful, Wilson
made hosts of friends.
Vie. Premier McPherson and Chief Sec.
Argyle are members of the Melbourne Club.
It is nothing unusual for the club to have
a couple of members*in a State Ministry, but
as a rule they have been Upper House men.
It would be possible for an urgent meeting
of the Executive Council to be held at the
Collins-strcet home-from-liome without trans-
gressing the rules. Acting-Gov. Irvine is one
of the brethren, and two Ministers with
Irvine would make -a quorum.
J. S. Jennings, a Maorilander in the ser-
vice of the Eastern Extension Telegraph Co.,
just returned from China, can tell some-
thing of the ways of modern buccaneering.
Part of his term was served at Sharp Peak,
a small island inhabited by four white men,
one white woman and 400 pirates. The
Celestial Captain Kidds are drafted off in
batches to a coastal steamer, where they
mingle with the passengers and await a
favorable moment to rise and seize the
vessel. That done, they make the European
officers take her into Bias Bay, where they
gut her; then they drift back to the home
village and resume the cultivation of vege-
tables for the telegraph quarters. Jennings’s
lonely sojourn was shared by his wife, a
handsome Melbourne girl, once well known
as a singer.
11. J. Yardy, one of the fast-fading band
of Crimean War veterans, is dead at Lis-
more (N.S.W.). A Nottingham man, he
was a young sergeant in Raglan’s army;
then he served in the Indian Mutiny and
the Maori troubles. Sixty of his 93 years
were spent on the Richmond River.
James Parr, who has consented to linger
in London another couple of months as
Maoriland’s High Commissioner, is an Auck-
land lawyer who first made his mark in
public affairs as its Mayor. He entered
Parliament in 1914 and became Minister of
Education. When Massey died Coates added
to Parr the portfolio of Justice and the job
of Postmaster-General, which he held till
three years ago, when he succeeded Jimmy
Allen in the London office. A dignified and
cultured person, he has found London life
very much to his liking. Who his successor
is to be isn’t yet decided. . Rumors that
Ward has his eye on the berth have been
denied, but no other name has been men-
tioned.
Dean Batty succeeds Henry Frewen
Le Fanu (named Archbishop of Perth) as
Coadjutor-Bishop of Brisbane, and Canon
Dixon becomes archdeacon of the diocese.
Batty is an Oxford man who arrived as chap-
lain to the Archbishop of Brisbane in 1905;
Dixon, a Cambridge graduate, has made a
name in Queensland as the headmaster of
the Southport school.
The foremost representative in Maoriland
of the type of parson who endeavors to
influence legislation is James John North,
head of the Christchurch Baptists. North
recently headed a deputation to Postmaster-
General Donald to protest against a measure
permitting the publication of tote dividends
-—-banned for many years—and has been
active in numerous other “anti” movements.
He is a forceful speaker, and probably the
most widely-read man of his sect in the
Dominion. Off his political hobby-horses
he is a genial and tolerant soul.
P. B. Jenkin, the new president of the
A.J.A. in Vic., was a junior reporter on the
Herald when the war gongs called him. He
was one of the hundred or so A.I.F. editors;
his magazine, the Khyberian, survived the
voyage home and had a brief run on shore
afterwards. Jenkin writes the Herald’s
widely read feature, “In Town and Out.”
Molomby and Shannon, who help Clapp
to run the" Vic. railways, owe their appoint-
ment for their present terms to Labor Gov-
ernments. Molomby was first appointed a
Commissioner in 1924, when Hogan was
Minister for Railways under Prendergasf,
and he has two years to go. Shannon, whose
first term expired on April 9, 1926, kept
on till 1927, when it was discovered that
continuation of his appointment had been
overlooked. lie was re-appointed as from
April 9, 1926, till April, 1933. Clapp has
been installed until September 17, 1935.
If H. R. Williams lives another six months
or so —and he looks good enough for another
ten years—-he will have a jubilee as Vic.
Executive Councillor. Sworn in as Minister
for Mines in the Berry Ministry on Aug. 3,
1880, he is Vic.’s oldest ex-Cabineteer. He
left politics, or politics left him, 27 years
ago. The old man’s last innings as a Minis-
ter was a long one —five years and two
months under George Turner (1894-99).
This is Sandy, the cheerful scapegrace of
“Merry Christmas!” Arthur Groom picks
him up—Jackson is his back name—in
Brisbane; and before they part company they
have been over most of Queensland together.
SANDY.
Sandy will begin making friends with Aus-
tralia through The Bulletin on Nov. 6.
He is the most humorous scallywag created
in Australia this century.
A life packed with adventure was lived by
Malcolm Macdonald, sometime sergeant-
major in the 10th Battalion, A.I.F. He
went to sea as cabin boy in a windjammer
and rose to be master; then he tried trading
on the China coast in his own schooner, pearl-
ing in North Westralia, gold-digging on the
Yukon, cattle-ranching in Mexico and pros-
pecting for gold again in the Marble Bar
(W.A.) region. Next soldiering attracted
him; he served with the Westralians right
through the Boer War, and, going to South
America, fought for President Castro, of
Venezuela. That fallen potentate, writing
from Trinidad to “Senor Captain Mac-
donald,” said: “It gave me great joy to learn
of the escape from the castle of Major Valos
and yourself after that so horrible disaster
on the Orinoco. I saved most of my private
fortune, and have placed a credit of 20.000
pesos each to your gallant self and Valos.”
In 'Australia once more, Macdonald was one
of the first South Australians to enlist in
1914, though years beyond the military age;
and again he was there at the finish. In the
closing chapter of his thrilling story he was
a fruitgrower at Lone Gum, on the Murray.
THE FOUR M’s.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Brace has told you that you will disfranchise
yourselves by voting for me. Why, dammit, but for
me and Marks and Mann and Maxwell you would
have had no chance to use your franchises at all.”
IV. M. Hughes.
Who cooked the goose of the haughty Bruce?
Who spragged the wheels of the stand-off
Stan?
Come, blessings pour on the Famous Four,
Me and Maxwell and Marks and Mann.
Who drew the line at no sacrifice
That you might vote in a twelvemonth twice?
There was Stewart true, and McWilliams,
too,
To lend in the work a helping hand,
But they weren’t, you see, O.K.’d as we,
With the good old Nationalist brand,
So they strike no scintillating sparks
Like me and Maxwell and Mann and Marks.
There was Groom, by grace of his wig and
mace,
Who out of the hurly-burly slid,
But he can but boast, at the very most,
What he left undone, not what he did
To see that his leader got the axe,
Like me and Marksy and Mann and Max.
Then raise a roar for the Famous Four!
And think how little did Samson care
When he wrecked the shrine of the Philistine
Though himself should lie in the ruins
there.
Patriots just as unselfish we,
Mann and Maxwell and Marks —and Me.
214 GEORGE-STREET.
A. HAYWARD.


SOCITY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Murkah”; Telegraph pictures are not
made of dots, like newspaper reproductions,
hut of tiny lines or dashes —80 rows to the
inch. As the picture at the transmitting
end revolves on a drum, a series of stabbing
lights is directed at it. White surface re-
flects nearjy 100 per cent, of light; black
is at the other end of the scale (zero reflec-
tion) and every shade between has its par-
ticular value. Therefore these needle-points
of light are reflected in varying degree as
the picture rotates. They are led through
a tube of benzine gas, which links the ter-
minals of the “light-cell.” At the receiving
end they are amplified, and a negative pro-
duced, like the one from which the “master”
was printed. The service cost £lO,OOO to
instal, hut operation is not expensive. The
ONLY AN EMERGENCY MAN.
FATHER: “Now, young man, I want you to tell me just what your intentions are
regarding my daughter?”
DAUGHTER ( suddenly appearing ): “Dad, dad, stop! That’s the wrong one!”
rate—4ss. for a 5 x 7 picture—-is, however,
too high, and the apparatus as yet is earn-
ings very little.
* * * *
“Hayband”: On Dave Markis’s farm, near
Numurkah (Vic.), a pair of accidents put
Dave and his only son out of action a week
or so before stripping time. Considering the
brief nature of a meeting in the saleyards
next day—the most eloquent speech was
26 words long—the result was astound-
ing. The fleet of strippers, harvesters,
headers and combines that arrived a
week or so later to garner Dave’s
crop was probably the largest that
ever operated in one farm. Every round
took swathes up to 120 ft. across. As the
bags poured off the machines a regular bat-
talion of helpers rammed and sewed them.
The volunteers brought their own meals and
made a big picnic of it. While the sun was
still high the last bag was stacked. In a
week or two the incident was practically
forgotten, but that is the way of the Bush.
* * * *
“Aspro”: Australian casualness? A
woman recently called on a Sydney lawyer
and asked him to take out a summons against
her ex-husband (whom she had divorced four
years previously) because he was some
months behind with his alimony payments.
She had been re-married for three years, yet
apparently neither she, her new husband
nor her old husband knew that the alimony
ceased on her re-marriage.
* * * *
“Ibn el Issar”: The Aga Khan, who is
the revered head of one of the great sects
of Islam which has its headquarters in
India, has got himself into the
cables owing to his alleged
intention of marrying a flapper.
The lady is Mdlle. Carron, of
somewhere in France. Specu-
lations as to how the saintly
one’s flock will take the pro-
posed match are wide of the
mark. If the Aga were the
simple saint his predecessors
were, instead of the rather
sporty modernist he is, tljere
would still be no objections,
since there are no castes or
social barriers in Islam. Even
if the lady were asked to become
a Moslem as a concession to
the conventions, a step which
she declares is not contem-
plated, it would only involve
the repetition before witnesses
of the Shehadah: “There is but.
one God, Allah, and Mahomet
is his prophet.” Otherwise, it
is the Aga’s own business. The
Koran allows him an issue of
four lawful wives, anyway.
“Larrapinta”: Back in 1890 Joe Bridle
and I were opal-gouging at Stony Creek, in
the De Grey Ranges (W.Q.). One day Joe
took a parcel of opal to Hungerford in our
buggy; on the way back he came across a
dead Chinaman on Boorara station. Not
wishing to be detained at an inquest, Joe
simply convinced himself that the man was
past human aid—which wasn’t difficult, as
the corpse was in an advanced stage of
decomposition—and drove on. The same
afternoon Patterson, the station owner,
drove past the same spot. The stench made
his horses shy, and after investigating the
cause he drove on into Thargomindah and
brought the trooper back in his buggy. The
constable recognised the deceased as one who
had owned a market-garden for many years
on the Bulloo River, and who had recently
sold out with the intention of returning to
China. In the dead man’s swag they found
500 sovereigns, the savings of a lifetime,
and, the squatter and the trooper being
honest men, the money went to the Crown.
When Joe heard the news he never forgave
himself for his carelessness.
“Cadonga”: The most rum-
soaked Digger I ever saw was in
the Warneton sector. He was
on ration fatigue and was carry-
ing a demijohn of S.R.D. along
the duckboard track from the
brigade dump into the support
trench. Ilis arms tiring, he had
hoisted the precious burden on
to his shoulder, when Fritz sent
a burst of machine-gun fire over
the area. A bullet struck and
shattered the demijohn, deluging
the bearer from head to foot with
the spirit. Half-blinded and believing him-
self badly hit# he staggered into the support
trench, and made for a near-by dressing
station, there to discover that not only
was he without a scratch, but his pint
pannikin, which he had been carrying in
the pocket of his tunic, was more than
half-full of rum. He took a gulp and went
his way as if it was all in the day’s work.
* * * ,]c
“Shop”: Military “shorts” soon became
unpopular with the heads in France, as in
Palestine. Their defects were brought into
prominence at Meteren and Strezeele; here
the trenches ran through waist-high wheat
crops, where mustard-gas from shells hung
about loftger than elsewhere, and caused gas
burns on bare limbs. The result was that
shorts were soon.banned in the line; but we
took the risk out of sight of officialdom.
Once we were caught when humping a
stretcher case through Strezeele, and the
sight of our smallclothes was all the more
aggravating to an immaculate of the staff
because all we wore to accompany them
were flannel shirts and boots, which gave no
indication of which side we were playing
with. After sundry references to disgracing
the A.l.F.’s appearance, he wound up with
the candid advice: “For God's sake make
sure of your identity discs to lighten the
AND SAFER, TOO.
BIRDIE'S GENTLEMAN FRIEND: “Why ever did you coax your husband to buy such a
small car?”
BIRDIE HERSELF: “Oh, it’s so much more comfortable —you see, there’s no place for
private detectives to hide in the back.”
job of finding out who the Hell you are
if you’re skittled” !
:!« :Js sfs .t'fi
“I. Temple”; The'Recorder of Liverpool
(Eng.) has just given a decision on gambl-
ing which may yet have painful reper-
cussions here. He told a jury that the O.K.
Social and Whist Club was “a common
gaming-house in law” because (1) people
“met there to play whist for money,” and
(2) “whist was not, and could not possibly
he considered, a game of pure skill.” In
fining the club a nominal sum, instead of
£5OO, he. said :
If this club persists in going on without an
appeal to a higher court and they come before me
again, I shall see that it is my duty to make it a non-
paying industry. •
Every important social club in Australia is
also a bridge club, and bridge, of course, is
no more a game of “pure skill” than whist.
Hitherto, in Australia and in England,
though foreigners’ clubs have often been
raided as common gaming-houses, no action
has been taken against a fashionable club.
Yet London clubs like the Portland and
Cavendish are primarily card-playing resorts
at which large stakes are won and lost. The
British fiction has always been that gaming
is justifiable in expensive clubs and on race-
courses —apparently because they are fre-
quented by Judges, Prime Ministers and
other high officials. Which is very like say-
ing that cocaine sniffing, while criminal in
Woolloomooloo, is a proper sport for Govern-
ment House.
“Murkah” : Let me present a telegraphist
who typed 690 words of a message without
hearing one of them. At 5 a.m. one day in
1916, Adelaide called up Perth and com-
menced a 700-words press by hand. I came
on at. six and found a weary telegraphist
sprawled across a typewriter,
dead to the whole world. The
message was war news and the
sounder was rattling away like
a machine-gun. As I awoke the
sleeper tjie flow stopped. “Give
O.K. for it,” he yawned. Of
the total he had heard the first
six words and I’d heard the last
four. The German artillery had
been pouring a hailstorm of steel
into Verdun for weeks ; to com-
pensate, we gave the French a
cable victory in some other blood-
soaked sector. Thus the missing
690 words materialised, and we
never heard any more about it.
“Clarence Cafeteria: A matter which has
been often discussed in The Bulletin has
been the subject of inquiry by the natural
scientists of the New-Come Hawley College
(U.S.A.) why do men sing in their bath-
rooms? They found that it was because in
a confined space a person with a feeble vocal
organ miraculously becomes a Caruso by
the magic of vibration. Bulletin contribu-
tors had, of course, suggested that, among
other things. But modern inventions have
made the facts clearer —the talkies in parti-
cular. The effect of canning speech or music
and then releasing it through a narrow horn
is to give it a rich timbre which the unaided
instrumentalist or vocalist can never attain.
The other night I took a devotee of the
talkies to an orchestral concert of over 100
performers, and he remarked how unnaturally
thin the music was.
* * * *
“Carisbrook, Jun.” : The P.M.G.’s Depart-
ment can’t and doesn’t guarantee secrecy
with regard to every telegram lodged; what
it does guarantee is that if the contents of
a message are divulged by a Government offi-
cial or anyone else, that person will he pro-
secuted. As a matter of fact, it is unlawful
to loiter within the precincts of a post office,
so if “R. Volt” obligingly delivered a mes-
sage which he “couldn't avoid overhearing” he
rendered himself liable to prosecution on two
counts. Not long ago an amateur wireless
fiend in Westralia intercepted a radio from
a ship to a friend of his, and, ringing up
the latter, delivered the message. Whpn the
official copy arrived, two hours later, the
addressee said that he had already received
the message and indiscreetly mentioned tin-
source. The obliging person who intercepted
the message was prosecuted and fined; also
his wireless license was cancelled.
“Gad”: What is perhaps the most novel
war memorial in the world is a tablet built
into the side of Fort de Yaux (Verdun), in
honor of the last carrier-pigeon sent out
from the besieged fortress. The bird was
released on June 4, 1916, carrying the fol-
lowing message from Major Raynal:—
We are still holding out, but we are meeting a
very dangerous gas and smoke attack. It is urgent
to relieve u 5.... This is my last pigeon.
The messenger got through and was solemnly
awarded the Legion of Honor and the Croix
do Guerre. It was kept as a pensioner at
army-pigeon headquarters until its death in
1925.
* * * *
“Billy See” : A pilot of the W.A. Airways
recently made a fruitless search for traces of
the missing Kobenhaven by following the
coast from Port -Iledland to Fremantle.
Although the vessel is likely to have met her
fate thousands of miles away, a strong cur-
rent sweeps out of the South Atlantic around
the Cape of Good H'ope and strikes the W.A.
coast anywhere north of Fremantle. A few
years ago a light buoy broke loose from a
West African port, and after a 12 months’
voyage beached near Dongarra. As long ago
as 1869 the famous clipper Blue Jacket was
burned off the Falklands; and nearly two
years later her charred figure-head came
ashore on Rottnest Island. It is quite pos-
sible that if anything of the Kobenhaven
still floats it will reach Westralia sooner
or later.
* * * *
“Kwinana”: A novel guidebook came into
the possession of the polilce when they
arrested a young man at Townsville and
charged him with travelling on the railway
without a ticket. It gave full directions for
travelling “on the never” from Bowen to
Atherton via Towmsville and Cairns, a dis-
tance of nearly 400 miles, and specified all
townships where, by registering for employ-
ment, free rations could be obtained from
the Government Labor Bureau. At towns
where inspection of trains was certain or
probable the traveller was shown where to
disembark and wdiere to pick up the train
again. In this instance the free rider was
caught because he omitted to obey the in-
struction to get off at Stewart Creek and
walk to Townsville. However, he will
presently have a chance to familiarise him-
self with the section, for the Townsville
magistrate sentenced him to 14 days at
Stewart Creek gaol.
* * * *
“M.G.S.”: In transferring the death-
dealing blowpipe from New Guinea to the
islands further north, “Bouragi” (B.
25/9/’29) is probably right; but I very
much doubt if the man-killing possibilities of
the weapon have not been greatly exag-
gerated. The Dyak obtains his poison from
the latex of the famous upas-tree, of which
many remarkable tales have been told. In
olden times in Java, for instance, it was
asserted that the tree served as the State
executioner. Accused persons were made
to walk towards it and. if guilty, they fell
dead before they reached its shade. All the
Dyaks of my acquaintance used the blowpipe
for killing small birds and animals, on which
it was very effective.
!]S * * *
“Dauber” : The artistic and business tem-
peraments are not entirely dissociated. In
the course of my daily walk past St. Mary's
Cathedral, in Sydney, I have recently noticed
a humble disciple of Velasquez and George
Lambert who uses the pavement for his
canvas. With a fine appreciation of the situa-
tion he ignores the. still-life and other sub-
jects so popular with his type, and draws
nothing but ecclesiastical pictures of an
appropriate tone —Madonnas, better than
some I have seen by the Old Masters, the
lamb that was caught in the thicket, and
similar venerated conventions. Business
seems to be highly satisfactory.
IN PRAISE OF SPINSTERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At the Congress of the World League of Sex
Reform Ur. R. B. Kerr declared that the world had
no more precious possession than spinsters.”
Hephzibah, Adeline, Joan,
Clara, Priscilla and June,
Spinsters who stand on your own,
Peaches with never a prune,
Many the spheres where you shine,
Dorothy, Chloe and Prue;
Hark to the lilt of the line:
“Good morning, dear teacher, to you !”
Schoolmarms who taught us to spell,
Stuffed us with battles and dates,
Ursula, Phoebe and Nell,
Cramming our infantile pates,
Luck and good hunting!—your locks,
Lalage, Phyllis and May,
Typistes and sisters and docs.,
Shake not in scorn at my lay.
Toilers co-equal with man,
All in my ode I would please—
Ilebes who hustle the scran,
Flossies who rattle the keys—
Yea, I would add, in good sooth,
Myrtle and Phryne and Lil,
Ye who the nectar of Youth
In your chic parlors distil.
More. Greatly daring I scale
Heights unattempted before.
Social reformers, all hail!
Nora and Deb and Lenore !
But, for the creme de Id creme,
Spinsterhood’s glory and crown,
Her we call “Auntie” I name —
Long may she grace her renown !
VICTORIA.
WAWHERESH.


“Moggs”: Party colors seem to have be-
come of less importance in elections than in
the days when each side stuck to one.
For a century or more in Britain blue was
the traditional Conservative color and yellow
the Liberal, though occasionally, I recall, an
advanced Radical candidate would make a
splash in red. But it was mainly blue v.
yellow, from one end of the land to the
other. Anthony Trollope, who was seldom
happier than when describing a spirited
election, somewhere makes an elector’s wife
declare that blue was “always the gallanter
color,” but in those days nobody ever
dreamed of women having votes, still less
of women members. Did Labor, when it
arrived, bring a color as well as a programme V
❖ ❖ ; ! ; #
‘Barangkali”: I know a case where a
ship’s hose was requisitioned (B. 25/9/’29)
to subdue one man, and it was scalding steam
and not water that it carried. It happened
on one of those small coasting boats which
trade between Singapore and Java, and
which carry only three European officers.
Soon after leaving Singapore Harbor one of
the Malay deck passengers ran amok, After
seizing a passing Chinese by the throat and
pinning him to the deck with his parang,
he charged the scurrying mass of shrieking
COUNTED THE COST.
“Did you — ah—nevah see about divorcing the blightah?”
“You bet! But it would cost me fifty pounds, and he isn’t worth it.”
Celestials, and left four dead. Meeting the
first officer at the head of the companionway,
he slashed him into unconsciousness. The
skipper, aroused by the disturbance, went to
Ms e cabffi C ’and was killed" instantaneously,
More fatalities followed and the decks were
deserted when the chief engineer, the sole
remaining European, got the steam hose to
work and forced the Malay into -a corner,
where he was overpowered, after having
killed one European and eight natives and
wounded many more. The vessel returned to
Singapore aiid handed him over to the
authorities.
“Lucerne Flea”: “Bad Australian” has
evidently travelled widely over the world, but
he can hardly have visited the German cocky
districts of South Aus., or he wouldn’t say
that it’s unusual to see Aussies eating raw
ham or bacon (B. 28/8/’29). A favorite
lunch sandwich among those of German
descent is made of two thick slices of bread
with a slice of raw ham as filling—
“Schinkenbrodt” the old folks still call it.
And a stock line with the butchers in the
townships is “Metwurst” —a Fritz-like
sausage made from raw ham and eaten raw.
As a lad I’ve often had it for a harvest-
time lunch when working for German
cockies.
* * * #
“Centurion” : It should gladden the prohi-
bitionists to know that the Thomas Atkins
whom Kipling painted in “Soldiers Three”
is almost an extinct type. The annual
report of the British Adjutant-General
notes that the old-time “crime” of insobriety
has practically vanished from the crime
sheets. Even the sergeants’ messes, whose
members were popularly supposed by the
men in the barrack-rooms to do themselves
well, show a big falling-off in alcohol
consumption. In the wet canteen, where
Beer once was king, soft drinks, tea and
coffee have undermined his throne. It must
be a bad look out for that once plutocratic
individual, the canteen-sergeant. Gone are
the days when he could “make his 20 gallons
out of every cask,” while it is doubtful if
the grocery firms dispense baksheesh with
the lordly prodigality of the old-time brewers.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Melbourne train-users who
patronise the Collins-street route are having
the time of their lives. After a furious
battle, Cameron, of the Tramways Board,
has had his way, and ’ the cable-trams
are to be replaced by electrics along
Australia’s “most beautiful thoroughfare.”
Meantime big ’buses carry passengers, who
experience the rare delight of being taken up
and set down on the kerb. The council
has omitted to obliterate the white marks
delineating the so-called safety-zones. Con-
sequently, hordes of newcomers, ignorant of
the change may be seen standing patheti-
cally in the middle of the street waiting for
the non-existent cable-trams. As motorists
now have the use of the whole roadway
these pedestrians are in worse danger than
before the alteration, if that is possible.
* * * *
“Mr. Cato” : The wettest wartime wassail
in which I participated was during the
occupation of New Britain by the Aus-
tralian Naval and Military Expedition in
1914. After the landing at Rabaul several
companies of infantry and the Naval
Brigade were quartered in the rear of the
New Guinea Company’s store, a huge build-
ing three storeys high and of great length.
The business part was partitioned off, but
the troops gained entrance through the sky-
light. Some adventurous spirits were lowered
in bos’n’s chairs through the broad venti-
lating shaft, and soon sent up encouraging
reports. Block and tackle were rigged and
willing hands got to work. The celebrations
began on a lovely moonlight night, and
by the end of the next torrid day there were
few in that garrison who hadn’t discovered
the devastating effects of champagne in an
equatorial climate.
“Nero”: For bad staff work I give the
palm to the abortive fighting for the relief
j£ ut j n One time the High Command
allowed it t 0 be known that a further
attack on the Turkish lines,_BCK) yards away.
would be launched after nightfall, and the
C.O. of my company called officers and
n.c.o.’s for a pow-wow at sundown He had
hardly begun to impart his information when
he was badly hit in the thigh, and the corn-
mand devolved on me. All I had heard was
that we were to attack the position
after artillery preparation, and that we
were to advance on a compass bear-
ing, with connecting files keeping touch with
companies and battalions. Thinking the in-
formation hardly sufficient, I went off to
find the battalion C. 0., and ran into
the brigadier. In reply to my urgent
request for details, he said: “See that line
of bursting shells? That’s your objective.”
And writh that I had to be content. My
company early lost touch with the right and
left companies, if it ever was in touch. I
A BRIGHT AND SHINING EXAMPLE.
THE REV.: “With your wealth and influence, dear lady, you could set such a powahful
example to the village in the mattah of Sabbath observance.”
THE IRREV: “Oh, but I do try. I always park my car outside the church."'
neither knew the compass bearing nor who
was on our flanks, nor anything else neces-
sary to such a movement. The company
was practically annihilated, as a prelude to
some of the most sanguinary fighting in any
theatre of war. Across the years I wonder-
how much of such useless bloodshed could
have been avoided by sane staff work.
,1; * *
“White Peak”: A peculiarity of W.A.
railway construction was that the first line
didn’t start at the capital, as has been usual
in most countries. The Geraldton-Northamp-
ton railway, designed to open up the colony’s
lead and copper fields, its most valuable
mineral possession 50 years ago, preceded the
Perth-Fremantle section by a couple of years
or so, having been started in_ the late
’seventies. The 30-odd miles of line took a
couple of years to build; Geraldton still
numbers among its treasured possessions an
anaemic-looking wheelbarrow into which the
Governor of the period shovelled earth by
way of officially starting the enterprise.
Within 20 years the Wilkie brothers’ navvies
were laying the track towards Coolgardie at
a rate which occasionally rose to a mile
aday -*
“Sidi”: A curious coincidence in connec-
tion with illicit drug trafficking under widely
separated conditions has recently been re-
ported on the other side of the world. The
British authorities have discovered that large
quantities of cocaine and heroin are being
brought into England by. homer-pigeons taken
over to the Continent for that purpose.
Almost at the same time, the Turks in
charge of Smyrna gaol tumbled to the fact
that, though opium is now forbidden to bond
and free alike in Turkey, the prisoners were
getting all they wanted. The yards of the
old-fashioned jug are full of pigeons, and
these the residents handed to their friends
on visiting days. Freighted with small con-
tainers of opium, the birds returned to theii
families, to the satisfaction of all concerned.
The gaolers are in a ouandary. The pigeon
is a sacred bird in Islam, and the position
bristles with difficulties.
* * * :,s
“Nikko”: Among unknowing lawbreakers
is a newly-arrived damsel who is work-
ing in a Sydney office and who travels
daily by ferry. Her father informed her
that he had procured her quarterly ticket,
which she would find on his desk, lhe girl
duly collected a small brass tag circular
and enamelled in spots, and travelled on it
for a week before dad inquired why she was
not using her ticket. She had had the luck
to strike a quarter when the ferry discs were
almost identical with the small badge of a
well-known religious society!
* =l= * *
“Bert the Carpenter”: Billy Hughes
showed the wariness one would expect of
liim when he doubted the wisdom of
keening the ten bob he found in his
capacity of a pub rouseabout (B. 25/9/’29).
\n old hand regards any loose change
lie finds on a new job with suspicion,
reasoning that the boss is quite likely to
have planted the money to test the new-
comer’s honesty.
jj. t '>• -l-
“Murkah”: There arc telegraphists who
are -mod one way only. I know men who
can send fast, good sigs. for hours on end,
and who loudly complain if the poor, hunted
type-thumper at the other end dares to
“break. But wflien they strike a receiving
side, and another dot-and-dash hurricane
starts to pour it in, some of these speeders
can’t take their own medicine. Arguments
ensue regarding the quality of the signals,
and soon the alleged receiver is doing mort
sending than the other fellow 7 . Probably the
super, moves him, and in a minute or two
he resumes, heaving business down a wire
at about twrice his own receiving limit. I hen
there are receivers who skilfully handle all
sorts of sending, seldom break even the
worst, and turn out neat copy all the time,
but whose own signals are a sore trial to the
man at the other end. A top-notch receiver,
permanently on night staff, once informed me
that he preferred fast, moderately-tangled
sending. “It keeps me awake,” he said,
“whereas good clear stuff simply rocks me to
sleep.”
i\i ❖ *
“Tee Essbi'e”: “Pawang’s” doctor who
drank the effluent from the septic-tank (B.
2/10/’29) recalls a former principal of the
liawkesbury Agricultural (College (N.S.W.).
Several times a week he would conduct visi-
tors over the experimental plots, the orchard,
the poultry farm, the piggery and the veget-
able garden, winding up by describing the
functions and explaining the workings of the
septic tank, after which he would drink a
cupful of water as a guarantee of its purity.
He continued "the ritual for years, and _ I
never heard of his taking any harm from it.
* * * *
“Bernard”: I have found Hollanders the
best linguists, and not only in Java. I went
to a Bohemian resort in Melbourne with one,
and in the intervals of conversing with me
in English he talked to a German at our
table, chatted with the Italian waiter, and
kept up an exchange of views with a French-
man—ajl in their own tongues. He capped
it all by telling a crowd at another table
how he had enjoyed their dancing. They
were from the Pavlova company, and he
spoke to them in Russian. He told me he
was sorry there wasn’t a Jew about, as
he knew Hebrew, as well as Arabic.
* * * *
“Shep”: The Karoola had a busy time
the trip it picked up the Highland Warrior
on the Spanish Coast (B. 2/10/’29). At
least one other SOS reached it—from
a torpedoed oil-tanker ahead of us in
the English Channel. We know we were
on the spot when we sailed over a glassy
sea covered for miles with an oily scum.
But the crew in that case had been picked
up by another steamer ahead of us.
* ❖ ❖
“Kayeff”: At Ocean Island (Central
Pacific) the language difficulty frequently
crops up, with Chinese laborers and
mechanics working alongside Gilbert and,
Ellice Islanders. I once listened in unoffi-
cially to a ding-dong verbal scrap between
a Kanaka and a Chinese “number one” boy,
whose only method of controversy was in
pidgin English. Finally the Chink lost his
temper and broke the rules by calling his
opponent a sanguinary damfool. The brown
man winced for a moment; then he rallied
gamely. “You plenty savvy English damfool
talk,” he told his adversary. “I no savvy
swear words belong that English talk. Bime
by I go along te missionary I plenty learn
that feller talk too.”
The dozen superb drawings which Norman
Lindsay did to illustrate “The Quarter-
master” have been reproduced in two-tone
ink on art paper, and are now on sale at The
Bulletin’s chief office, Sydney, and at all
branch offices. The complete set of one
dozen drawings costs only 25., and to put
country subscribers on the same footing as
those of the cities, the set will be sent post-
free from the head office to any address m
Australasia.
ROMANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The apple-tree was white with bloom
And specked with buds of rose
When Stella left her sewing-room
And stole out on tiptoes,
Stole out in answer to a tune,
A lightly whistled air—
A rigadoon
Of a crescent moon
And of Stephen waiting there.
The apple-tree was like a dream
Of innocent young bliss
That haloed with a magic gleam
A boy’s and girl’s first kiss.
The apple-tree was set for fruit,
Hard little knobs of green,
A blackbird played he was a flute
Blown for a fairy queen
When Stephen crowned his queen of girls
With a wreath of her own hair —-
Pinned up her curls,
And a ring of pearls
Slipped on her finger fair.
The apple-tree bore promise true,
As green as anything,
When Stella sighed (and meant it, too)
In Stephen’s ear: “My king!”
The apple-tree was proudly weighed
With globes of ripest red,
It threw 7 a rich, complacent shade
The morning they were wed;
And as the bride in lily dress
Passed through the garden gay,
A shy caress
Of tenderness
She gave its trunk that day.
The apple-tree that sheltered them,
The happy couple swrnre,
Should wear a secret diadem,
Be sacred evermore!
The apple-tree has grow r n so old,
Of beauty all bereft;
And now 7 beneath the winter cold
Its hoary stump is left.
And w 7 hat of vows so fond and high
And raptures long ago?
Did true love fly?
Did either die,
Or break a heart? Not so.
The apple-tree in flaming rose
Still gleams to work them good ;
They toast their slippered feet, and doze
By a fire of apple-w 7 ood.
VICTORIA.
RIKKE T.


a
<3
*
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD.
Total Assets exceed . . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
to . In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Asaociation and no deduction made from policy or bonuses..
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Poliey applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4)
(5)
In the event
PERSONAL
of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium
ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost eveiy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
reduced proportionately.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Hold Everything”
Palace “It p a y S to Advertise”
euiTERiON “Lombardi, Ltd.”
Roy'al Movies and Talkies
state Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s (com. Saturday) .... ‘‘Rose Marie”
Royal “Journey’s End”
King’s “Whoopee”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
All things considered, Bernard Heinze’s
final “celebrity” concert at the Town Hail
was the biggest artistic event of the year
in Melbourne. The principal item aa t as
Beethoven’s Choral Symphony, a supremely
noble piece of music and not done locally
since the days of Verbrugghen. Critics
have been busy throwing epithets like “gigan-
tic,” “colossal” and “titanic” at it. Great
art never impresses primarily by its size,
however. Whether the Yenus de Milo were
a foot or 40 metres high Avould make no
difference to the exquisiteness of its pro-
portions.
On the whole, Prof. Heinze maintained
a firm grip on his extensive band of virtuosi,
Av'ho included over 100 orchestrions, soloists
Merna Stewart (soprano), Cecily Kelly
(contralto), Norman Bradshaw (tenor),
Robert Nicholson (baritone) and the 150
ladies and gentlemen of the Philharmonic
Society. The French horn stumbled badly
in one solo passage, but that was less the
fault of the owner of the instrument than of
a composer who frequently made demands
on human beings that could only be satis-
factorily fulfilled by supermen. Also some
of the colors entrusted to the violins in the
initial movement ran together and old Lud-
wig’s enormous gusto and his hearty laughter
v/ere only partially reflected, Avhile the voice
of beauty, like Desdemona’s, appeared to
come from under a pillow in the beginning
of the fourth movement. But the middle
section, Avith its suggestion of doors slowly
opening on infinity, emerged in all its magical
loveliness. The final rhapsody, when the
150 choristers rose up and flung their voices
into the instrumental ferment, Avas something
likely to be remembered long by those w T ho
beard it. It says a great deal for the musical
stamina of Melbourne that more than 3000
people turned up to listen.
* * #
“The Woman Who Laughed at Faery,”
Fritz Hart’s new opera (Melbourne Play-
LYNDA KENT, one of the Sydney Playboxers.
house), was as charming and ethereal as
all his other operas, but its length was
immoderate. The music -was harmonic scene-
painting of the first order. It was like wind
amongst the pines and continued to blow
throughout the performance without a great
deal of variation.
The book was the sort of story J. M.
Barrie would have selected if he had been
born a composer. It dealt with a spell cast
by an amorous leprechaun over an Irish
colleen betrothed to a peasant with no soul
above pigs and how the spell was dissolved
by the laughter of Mrs. Murphy, mother to
the damsel. The performance was outstand-
ing. Kathleen Goodall was a miraculously
uncanny goblin, the very concrete expression
of the music. Mrs. Colin Colahan was a
sweet-voiced and tenderly-liuman colleen.
Lennox Brewer sang about his favorite live
stock in an unremarkable baritone, but acted
convincingly. Dawn Harding was an admir-
able Mrs. Murphy and the scenery of Napier
Waller and Louis McCubbin was an intelli-
gent attempt to illustrate the music.
The present writer would like to see Mr.
Hart handle a theme which would give full
dramatic scope for his inexhaustible musical
resources. A really up-to-date fairy would be
an interesting innovation. Wo have it on
the evidence of Oliver Lodge, Conan Doyle
and others that the spirit world is a replica
of tfliis, down to the cinemas and whisky
sodas —-only more beautiful and better.
Instead of casting an old-fashioned spell
over the earth maiden, the modern fairy
would lure her with the offer of a ride in
his new sports model fairy Chrysler, the
petrol would run out, the maiden would be
obliged to walk home in the small hours,
her mother would interview the fairy’s
parents and insist on him doing the right
thing by the damsel, the marriage would be
unhappy owing to the girl’s cooking dis-
agreeing with the fairy’s stomach, he would
fall into the habit of being unavoidably
detained at the office, and the injured lady
would call in the services of the Fairy
Detective Agency, which would obtain a
photo through the office keyhole. The Court
would refuse to accept the fairy’s statement
that it -was necessary for him to have the
blonde typist on his knee while he dictated
an order for 300 gross of purple # fireflies;
so she would get a decree nisi, with costs,
and marry her human lover. Mr. Hart is
free to use the above plot without acknoAV-
ledgment.
The Theatre Guild, a band of Melbourne
amateurs burst into mild prominence at
the Kelvin Hall with four new plays, and
the cause of Australian drama was not
noticeably advanced thereby. The perform-
ance seldom rose above the standard of the
suburban school break-up, and frequently
fell below it. “The Stranger,” by John
Wheeler, dealt sententiously Avith the burning
question of the existence of fairies. Mos-
tyn Wright, looking like the ghost of Renin,
argued in the affirmative and was aided and
abetted by Master Tom Buckingham, while
Master Tom’s father, Braddon Mitchell,
obstinately maintained the opposite. When,
however, six fairies arrived direct from the
_______________ Nessie Marshall
school of dancing
and did a few steps
in a shrubbery, the
doubter was con-
verted, to the gen-
eral satisfaction. To
the present writer
the human char-
acters seemed far
less real than the
supernatural ones.
“Blue Blood,”
by E. JVC. Webb,
was a treatise on
the tattered theme
of middle - class
snobbery, a theme
which seldom fails
to ring hollow in
an Australian set-
ting. The bush-
man of Max Brion
smacked somewhat
of reality, however.
“The Gift Horse,”
by Mostyn Wright,
was mildly enter-
taining, and an in-
nocuous evening
concluded with
“Twin Flats,” by
the industrious
playwright who
pref e r s to be
known by the pen-
name of “Karta.”
“Karta” favored
this paper with a
list of the ten com-
mandments govern-
ing successful dra-
in at i c presenta-
tions, and then
proceeded to break
most of them. His
preface to the play,
like those of G. B.
Shaw, was vastly
more amusing than the actual performance.
Nevertheless, he revealed a firmer grasp of
stage technique than any of his fellow-con-
spirators.
* # *
There's nothing either good or bad but
weak acting makes it worse. Overlooking
that, an observer might take away from
the Sydney Playboxers’ presentation of
“The Front Page” an impression that that
newspaper-world comedy is unnecessarily
garnished with bits of coarseness.
A common defence of the using of coarse-
ness is that it is Life, and that the creative
artist must inevitably deal in terms of life.
Each statement is true, and almost always
misinterpreted. Life literally transferred on
to the stage is only Life ; it is not Art. That
calls for sublimation. The creative artist is
a kind of inspired cow. It is his job to
crop at the grass of Life, and by rumina-
ting on it, turn it into the blood and muscle
and flesh of Art, discarding the refuse. If
he craps too much of the lush lucerne of
sentimentality, he suffers from wind in the
stomach; if he overdoes his eating among
the weeds of the conventionally poisonous,
he suffers from stiffening of the arteries, and
so on. He may recover, or even be applauded
for his sickness, but
all his effort will
have been wasted
so far as Art is
concerned.
The impression
gathered from the
way the Playboxers
present the dialogue
of the half-dozen
reporters chiefly
responsible for the
action in this play
is that the dialogue
is literally true,
instead of being
artistically true.
It suggests the dull
actual, instead of
the sublimated; it
is something heated
up and left in a
crude mass. Even
if every bit of the
coarseness were,
essential to the
creation of an
artistic represen-
tation of the real,
it becomes some-
thing else with this
self-conslcious pre-
sentation. It is not
blended into the
whole; emphatic
enough as it stands,
it gathers double
emphasis from the
self - consciousness,
and' is left a
crudity, jutting out
and distorting the
picture. Indeed,
coarseness is so
emphatic at all
times that it is
extremely difficult
to use it and retain
correct perspective.
Genius is the ability
to do so. The half-
genius never grasps
that foul expression is a hundred times more
monstrous on the stage than it is in the
street. The sense of proportion may not
enter importantly into living, but > no one
can be a creative artist without being very
much alive to it, and no one can interpret
creative art without the same awareness.
It is not a question of Avhat is appropriate
—everything is appropriate to Art that holds
proportion; over-emphasis is the one unfor-
givable sin. It is a striking commentary
on this inseparableness of emphasis and
coarseness that, while the prompter is an
overworked man in innocuous passages, his
voice is never needed in the conventionally
taboo. Mud sticks.
Well acted, the play would probably be
very good. Even in this presentation it
has points of merit. Humor is abundant,
the dramatic element looks strong, and
where the coarseness is not obstrusive the
newspaper atmosphere is intensely suggested.
The story is based on the sound foundation
of the impossibility of conveying to the out-
sider, especially the feminine outsider, in
the form otf wife or fiancee, the curious ties
with which a newspaper can fetter a man.
When the news-sense calls, it must be obeyed
above everything-—an idea that has been
often used but which is far from thread-
bare, The setting is a rounds-reporters’ rooni
in Chicago criminal court buildings, with six
reporters waiting up for an early-morning
hanging. The star reporter of the bunch
has just thrown in his job, and with his
prospective wife and her mother is off to
New York and advertising. Then the con-
demned man escapes. There are political
complications in the escape and promise of
a great news story. The star reporter gets
on the scent at once, and has the escaper
providentially delivered into his hands, hut
the scoop of a lifetime is frustrated by the
nagging intrusion of the girl and the mother-
in-law-to-be. There is an excellent end a
few yards from the actual finish, when the
star reporter’s news-boss, though bitterly dis-
appointed over losing the story, gives him
his inscribed gold watch ; but it is dragged
out past that and the finish is melodramatic
—the news-boss sending a wire to police
along the railway line to have the reporter
arrested for stealing the watch, his big idea
being to thus get him back on the job.
The slight feminine side is not enhanced
by the acting of Mattie Doyle, but Lynda
Kent’s fine version of the ma-in-law largely
adjusts the balance. Max Napier and Frank
Carswell 'do well as reporters, and Duncan
Macdougall and Tom Castles handle charac-
ter roles satisfactorily.
# * *
Possibly the technical difficulties of
arrangement have hindered the develop-
ment of two-pianoforte music: certainly
the literature of this branch of musical
expression is still scanty and to most
pianists unfamiliar. But Frank Hutchens
and Lindley Evans in their two-piano
recitals have demonstrated that the medium
is worthy of further exploration.
At Sydney Uni. Con. the other night they
presented some very fine examples of -what
MERNA STEWART, solo singer in the Philharmonic perform-
ance of Beethoven’s choral symphony at Melbourne Town
Hall.
can be done with overlapping keyboards.
Bach’s Prelude and Fugue in G minor was
restored almost to its original majesty—it
was written for the organ—and a like
service was done for Cesar Franck’s Prelude,
Fugue and Variation, scored by the composer
for piano and harmonium. Percy Grainger,
who is partial to such complexities as two-
pianoforte writing, and sighs for an instru-
ment with quarter-tones, was represented by
an excerpt from his “In a Nutshell” suite,
very cleverly constructed. Strauss’s “Blue
Danube” waltz, elaborated from the Schultz-
Elver concert transcription, w 7 as impressively
delivered, and new subtleties were disclosed
ir. Brahms’s Variations on a Theme of
Haydn. Casella’s “Marionettes” march, a
musical jest in which the point is a flat
note in a hurdy-gurdy, greatly tickled the
audience and had to be repeated.
Cedric Ashton (’cello) and Muriel Cohen
(piano) gave the first public performance
of a sonata by Alfred Hill, melodious and
sweetly harmonised. Clement Hill, a bari-
tone, sang classical and modern songs.
* * *
If Alfred Frith attaches any importance
to auto-suggestion he should be thinking of
changing his name. “Froth” appears to be
what it suggests to the Firm, and the latest
thing with which he has been saddled, “Hold
Everything,” is the frothiest of the frothy.
The story is faint even for musicomedy; the
musical thread isn’t much stronger. The
gags are less so, and the support could
not be much weaker. The “hero” in the
piece, who, of course, has to sing the
leading ditties, is Terry Kendall, a
jolly good dancer. The “heroine” is Pac
Kendall, whose forte also is saying it with
her feet. She is, however, a trifle more
satisfying as a vocalist than her brother,
though that is not extravagant praise. For-
tunately for Frith, the lately imported Mary
Lawson is a dainty little comedy actress, and
the presence of Cecil Kellaway helps a bit
further to redeem the show. The Reno Boys
and the Fallow Twins, late of the late Tivoli,
dance brilliantly. So do the Kendalls.
* # *
Freddie Forbes’s Funbeams provide bright
and lively fare for holiday patrons at Syd-
ney Fullers. Saturday night’s programme
consisted of a series of sketches, well written
and brightly acted, with singing and dancing
acts to help ’em along.


BRUCE,
PACE &- CO.
THE PiOPiE f
<&
O
t/zw
u
o
o
w
r*
O
A-
’T*
h
o
o
/y
VN^
o
o
-c
*
t*
c.
r-v\
v-
IRIK3IWHP
OKI AMD
mastpugsr
s^mM
1925—The Elector Looked
in the Window.
L
fi*.
/
1925-1929—What the Elector Found Inside!
-ru n Psctp Covernment promised electors the earth in 1925. How far have promises
been fulfilled? They are attempting to reduce wages ajrd Cn
;!ledt ona VhTun n employ V e e d to-day "number 1120,000. There was no housing scheme, and
1 no child endowment.
BRUCE-PAGE ARE WINDOW-DRESSERS
But LABOR has the Goods!
mat Labor &ould Do
A Labor Government would maintain fair wages and reasonable hours
of National Insurance against accident, sickness and unemployment It would
works of development, and through better condemns would increase the prosperity indus y
and agriculture. It would take further measures to protect and save the in fa .
Welfare of
the Workers.
Maintenance of Federal principle in Arbi-
tration as a safeguard against threats on the
basic wage and standard hours. But a more
business-like system of arbitration, freed
from entangling legalisms, handled by men
of industrial experience. Measures to reduce
unemployment. Council of Employment to
be established.
Help for the
Farmers .
Return
to Sane
Finance.
Producers will be invited to a conference
for the establishment of pools and an Aus-
tralian-wide system of organised marketing.
Thorough review of financial position
created by Bruce-Page Government s deficit
of nearly £5,000,000, after having inherited
a surplus of £7,000,000. Taxation on those
best able to bear it. No Amusement Tax.
Vote LABOR This Time!


R°N£.°
BRITISH
DUPLICATOR
will produce typewritten letters and
print office stationery in any quan*
tities.
IP
Particulars
from
Sydney:
21 Hunter Street.
Melbourne: .
04 Market Street.
Brisbane:
43 Creek Street.
Adelaide:
Gawler Place.
Perth:
107 Murray Street.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire,
Monobol
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
“LET’S CHOOSE EXECUTORS AND TALK OF WILLS”
HAVE YOU CHOSEN YOUR EXECUTOR?
If you have appointed a friend, have you considered that he may die soon after you, and your
estate may pass into the control of someone whom you would never have trusted? That he may
maladminister the funds? Or your Estate may suffer losses through his neglect or inexperience?
THESE RISKS CAN BE OVERCOME BY APPOINTING AS YOUR EXECUTOR
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
OF 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
which offers undoubted Security, combined with Expert Administration.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS NOW UNDER THE COMPANY’S CONTROL EXCEED £36,350,000.
Managing Director: R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
Manager: IT. V. DOUGLASS.
Write for Booklet.
Advanced Business
Training
The
Alexander
Hamilton
Institute
C ourses
are now
Controlled by
Hemingway and
ROBERTSON beg
to announce that they
now control for the whole
of Australasia the
famous advanced execu-
tive training courses
originated and published
by the Alexander Hamil-
ton Institute (U.K. and
America). These are
“Modern Business and
Service’’ and “Modem
Merchandising and Ser-
vice.”
Write for the big illus-
trated book “Forging
Ahead in Business,”
which tells convincingly
the whole A.H.I. story.
Hemingway 8 Robertson
38 Barrack House,
1C Barrack Street,
Sydney.
38 Bank House, Bank
Place, 410-12 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Dunlop Perdriau Rubber Co.
This is the big rubber-manufacturing con-
cern into which the Dunlop and Perdriau
businesses were welded last year, and which
bought all but a handful of the ords., and
therefore control also, of the Barnet Glass
Co. The big English Dunlop co. also has
a substantial interest in the business.
Recently the three Australian cos. con-
siderably increased the capacity of their
respective plants to meet the demand which
grew rapidly as the boom in the motor industry
developed. Following the return of normal
trading conditions and the setting up of
the Goodyear and Rapson cos.’ factories
here, it became obvious that the future held
ugly possibilities as far as profits were con-
cerned. So, with the idea of stabilising con-
ditions and reducing overhead, the present
fusion was brought about. Other advantages
can be expected on the buying side.
Before the merger the English Dunlop co.
bought a round half-million of the Austra-
lian Dunlop’s ords. at 255. That made the
latter co.’s paid capital £2,470,655 at July
31, 1928, and its reserves benefited by
£115,000 of share premiums. The deal,
which also gave the English co. a four-year
option over a further half-million ords. at
305., provided for the formation of a subsi-
diary, jointly owned, to take over the Maori-
land business; but this was sold outright to
the London co. before the close of accounts
in 1928. Much is expected in technical
benefits from this association.
While the Dunlop and Perdriau boards
were discussing details, Dunlops induced
the Barnet Glass co. to come in. The result
was that all but a few hundreds of the
550,000 £1 Barnet Glass ords. were sold to
Dunlops at 325. each. The sale carried an
option to purchase one Dunlop ord. at 255.
for every two shares sold to that co. The
Barnet Glass Co. continues to trade as a
separate concern under its old sign, but its
chairman (W. A. Watt) transferred to the
head of the Dunlop board-table. Holders
of its £200,000 of pref. shares —they carry
a cumulative 8 p.c., advance with the ords. to
10 p.c. and enjoy priority as to capital—
have the right to convert into Dunlop ords.
at par at any time inside four years.
Perdriaus and Dunlops were dovetailed
into one another as from June 30, 1928, each
co.’s assets having been revalued for the
purpose. The two old nameplates were taken
down and the present one put up. The
union, though no doubt beneficial all round,
was unmistakably satisfactory for those on
the Perdriau register. First the ords.. got a
div. of approximately 2s. sd. per share
(equal to 16.7 p.c. p.a.), and the prefs. their
usual rates, for the nine months to March
31. After that £1,950,000 of scrip in the
new c 0.—410,000 10 p.c. cum. prefs. and
1,540,000 ords. —were put out in place of
£1,457,234 of Perdriau paper, which had a
net tangible backing of £1, 760,623. Thus
£189,377 was paid for goodwill, which
previously stood in the Perdriau books
at £15,000. The value placed on the
old Dunlop co.’s goodwill was £165,000;
hence the intangible asset figures in the
new co.’s accounts at £354,377. The basis on
which the scrip in the new co. was distri-
buted to Perdriau shareholders makes a 10
p.c. div. now worth approximately 13.9 p.c.
as against 12| p.c. formerly on old ord. hold-
ings. And owners of the old 7 p.c. and 8 p.c.
prefs. are now receiving divs. equal to 8.4
p.c. and 9 p.c. respectively on former
holdings.
The following table, which compares the
position at June 30 with the combined
figures of the two old cos. a year earlier,
shows what has taken place:—
1928,
Capital: Combined Figures. 1929.
Ord. £3,006,498 £3,764,151
Pref 670,000* 930,0040
Nominal reserves .. .. 658,391 502,412
Specific reserves .. .. 53,575
Liabilities .. .. .. 649,133 504,612
Freeholds, etc. .. .. 1,119,393 1,138,687
Plant, etc. 1,097,897 1,147,026
Stocks . . ~. .. 1,692,232 1,433,639
Debtors 555,347 515,384
Cash, etc 50,895 154,201
Investments . . .. . . 288,901 f / 29,163
Shares in other cos. .. 156,600 1,046,052
Goodwill .. .. • . . 180,000 354,377
*£50,000 of 7 p.c., £lOO,OOO of 8 p.c., and
£520,000 of 10 p.c. fAll 10 p.c. flncludes
£138,029 of assets in course of realisation.
There is no mention of the amount of
capital subscribed by Barnet Glass share-
holders, but in addition to the scrip issued
in respect of the merger an extra 273,496
ords. were put out during the year. Shortly
before the close of accounts, however, the
co. took over the North British Rubber Co.’s
interest in the Dunlop-North British Shoe
Co. Pty., thus becoming sole owner of that
business, but no hint has been thrown out
as to the basis on which the deal was made,
or the amount involved. It seems obvious,
nevertheless, from the increase of £55.374
in the share premium reserve (£.173,374),
that most holders of Barnet Glass
ords. exercised their right to buy Dunlop
ords. The money thus received, together
with £251,391 gathered from Perdriau con-
tribs. and a lot more (investments were
drawn upon for £259,738), went out again
in connection with the purchase of Barnet
Glass ords. These, by the way, appear to
have been taken into the Dunlop-Perdriau
books at cost, the book value of shares in
other cos. having increased £889,452.
For the 12 months to June 30 the board
figured gross profits from both sections of
the business at £1,153,739 —10 p.c. was
received on the Barnet Glass holding. Exes.,
including the cost of the merger and provision
for taxation and depreciation, ran away
with £603,809, leaving a declared net profit
of £549,931. After allowing for the pref.
requirements the balance of the year’s net
takings (£456,930 ) was 12.1 p.c. on the
ord. capital. Apart from the special dis-
tribution to Perdriau’s shareholders, already
referred to, an all-round 10 p.c. was handed
out (the lot called for £443,285), and the
£106,646 thus left in the business advanced
reserves to £148,035 in excess of the good-
will item. In addition, 7s. lOd. of the price
paid for the Barnet Glass shares was unrep-
resented by tangible assets when the books
were last ruled off.
For the 12 months to June 30, 1928,
the Perdriau Co. netted £213,393. For the
same period the old Dunlop Co. registered a
loss (£36,452), the first since it was formed
in 1899. A year ago its stocks were said
to have been severely written down, and it is
plain that it made a substantial recovery
during the last term. Incidentally, the
heavy drop of £258,593 in the book value of
stocks in the table suggests that the past
year’s profits have not been overstated.
There is nothing in the immediate outlook
to indicate a drop in the price of rubber,
though American consumption remains an
uncertain factor. Locally the outlook in the
motor trade has brightened slightly, dud
the current year’s figures should benefit from
economies following the merger. The share
market, which notes the co.’s snug finances,
and its encouraging prospects, pays 275. 3d.
for the ords., which have a net tangible back-
ing around par. The return at the current
price is 7.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. For
the prefs., which carry a fixed cumulative .10
p.c. and have priority as to capital, 30s. 9d.
is paid. The return at that figure is 6.6
p.c.; the net tangible backing amounts to
over £5 per share, and last year’s profit
was nearly six times their full annual
requirements.
The Myer Emporium, Ltd.
, —Dividends—
Prefs. Ords.f Towards
July,, Profits. 9 p.c. 20 p.c. Reserves. Deficit.
1926*.. 486,099 290,715 145,384 104,616
Share premiums, £86,250.. .. 18,366
9 p.c. 174 p.c. Reserves.
1927 .’. 328,480 300,916 27,564 9,198
9 p.c. 14 p.c.
1928 .. 275,263 254,877 20,386 29,584
9 p.c. 124 p.c.
1929 . . 265,535 236,159 29,376 58,960
*lB months. flncluding- employees’ shares.
Notwithstanding difficult trading conditions
in Victoria, this big Melbourne retailer
livened its turnover. But goods had to
be well advertised and cuts made in sea-
sonal lines to do it —winter stocks were not
so quick to move as they might have been.
Also a wad of new interest-bearing money
was got in—an extra £363,353 was added to
deposits, overdrafts, etc. —to finance fur-
ther extensions of the co.’s interests, and,
for the most part, this fresh money would
not have earned much. So one way and
another net profits fell away. After 'satis-
fying the tax-gatherer, who took £46,222
as against £55,502 for the preceding 12
months, the board figured that net takings
were £9728 less than the previous year’s.
Still, all things considered, the result was
very satisfactory. After attending to the
prefs. and 10 p.c. staff-partnership shares —
together they called for £63,658 —-enough
remained to show 14.6 p.c. on average ord.
capital compared with 15.5 p.c. and 19.5
p.c. for the two years before last.
An important factor bearing on the market
for the ordinary scrip has been the board’s
policy of making distributions close up to
earnings. The div., which dropped from
171 P-c. in 1927 to 14 p.c. in 1928, fell back
to 121 p.c. last year, when nearly nine-
tenths of the declared profit was handed out.
And the div. rate seems likely to continue
sensitive to trade influences, because under
the present policy there cannot be any quick
growth of reserves to help Capital through
rough passages. At the close of last accounts
the lay-by was only £58,960 in excess of
the £250,000 at which goodwill figured in
the books.
To what extent, if any, the ratio of net
earnings to capital is likely to improve is
impossible to say. The co. has a- very
vigorous management; it has been extra-
ordinarily successful in the past; but lately,
owing to keener competition and other
causes, profit margins have had to be cut
finer in order to win and hold business.
And with the transfer of Foy’s and others
from the suburbs into the city, and the
coming of Coles into Bourke-street, pros-
pects are that competition will get more of
an edge on it.
In Sept., 1928, the board bought the whole
of the 200,000 £1 ords. in James Marshall
and Co., thus securing control of this old-
established Adelaide drapery business, in
which the public is interested to the extern:
of £397,000 in 7 p.c. A and B prefs. The
price paid was 30s. a share, but Marshall’s
reserves figured at £71,047 at July 31,
1928, so only £28,953 (2s. lid. per share)
was paid for goodwill. The name was
changed to Myer Emporium (S.A.), Ltd. For
the five years to the close of accounts in
1928 Marshall’s ords. averaged only 5 p.c.,
but the position may have been better than
it looked—practically all the ords. were held
by the directors. Owing, to reorganisation
and extension of the business the ords. were
passed over last year, but turnover is said
to be moving ahead, and prospects for a
distribution during the current year are
considered bright.
Mainly to finance the purchase of Mal-
shall’s scrip and also extensions (expected
to be completed by February next) to the
co.’s Lonsdale-street premises the board leant
on depositors (£424,173) for an additional
£279,991, and tacked £83,362 on to creditors
and overdraft (£271,409). That and other
things are seen in this comparison of balance-
sheet figures:—
1926. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital .. £1,676,978 £2,064,697 £2,089,466
Mortgages.. .. 531,014 734,229 726,200
Sundry creditors .. 588,451 332,229 695,582
Freeholds, lease-
holds, etc, . . 1,266,536 1,604,346 1,647,836
Plant, vehicles, etc. 171,925 195,299 194,305
Shares in other cos. 180,997 237,626 485,997
Stocks . . . . 962,486 1,014,327 1,052,294
Debtors . .’ .. 233,105 231,985 300,262
Cash, etc. .. 8,094 8,240 20,155
Disregarding £50,629 on advance to the
Myer Woollen Mills at the close of accounts
in 1928, the book value of shares in other
cos. moved up £299,000 last year. Of the
growth of £68,277 in book debts £40,365 was
on account of goods supplied to the Adel-
aide co. There is a reserve of £28,939, or
11 p.c. of customers’ accounts, against bad
and doubtful accounts. As yet the amount
actually written off as bad in any one
year has never exceeded one-fifth of one
per cent., the chairman says. At July 31
liabilities, including the mortgage, were
£49,071 in excess of the more or less liquids,
the financial position having worsened by
£287,794 during the year.
The market sums up the position by pay-
ing 355. or thereabouts for the ords. —they
were at 455. a couple of years ago. The
return at the current price is 7.1 p.c. on a
12i p.c. div. basis. The net asset backing
amounts to 18s. Bd. per share, subject to
intangibles in the subsidiaries. The cover
for the prefs. figures out at 61s. lid. per
share. They are priced around 285., at
which figure the yield is 6.4 p.c. They carry
a fixed cumulative 9 p.c. and have priority as
to capital; last year’s profit was over five
times their annual requirements.
Australian Distillery Co., Ltd.
This is a holding co. It owns approxi-
mately 29 p.c. of the £565,000 of paid capital
m Federal Distilleries Pty., Ltd. It came
about in this way. After the war a number
of small distilling concerns got together and
decided that they could not hope to do any
good in competition with the big overseas
people unless they went on the market
together. So for trading purposes they,
fivo and a half years ago, formed the Fed-
eral Distilleries Pty., Ltd., The cos prin-
cipally interested were the Australian,
Federal, Brind’s, Breheny’s and Kinna’s.
For some, years after this new trading
co. was formed it was busy building up
stocks and developing markets, which meant
.heavy overhead and tying up a lot of money
9) stocks that take about five years to mature.
Splendid progress was, however, made with
this preliminary work, and to-day Old Court
is claimed to be the best seller on the Aus-
tralian market. Increasing profits have
been won ; but until last year they were all
used in the business to strengthen the basis
of future trading.
Naturally, shareholders in the Australian
Distillery, who had gone hungry since 1921
and had averaged only 3$ p.c. in 17 years
becanie impatient at the trading co.’s 'delay
in distributing some of its surplus earnings
A year ago the veil was drawn from the
Federal co.’s figures as at April 30. 1928
These disclosed accumulated profits ’ "of
£117,158 to support £565.000 of paid capital
and offset £148,000 of goodwill. Plant was
in at £240,963; stocks, £321,874 (cost) •
book debts, etc., £69,444. There was £98,120
•coming to creditors, including the bank
(£82,267).
For the 12 months to April 30 last
the operating proprietary’s gross profit
(£123,801) sprang £21,027. Exes. (£18,580)
took £15,841 of the increase; hence the net
result benefited by £5186, reaching 7.4 p.c.
on paid capital as against 6.5 p.c. for the
previous year. In November last the co. paid
its first div. of 4 p.c., followed by a final
3 p.c. making 7 p.c. for the year. This took
£39,550, and the £2721 that was left advanced
the lay-by to within £28,121 of the goodwill
item. Assuming that goodwill has remained
unaltered throughout, then the co. started
with ss. 3d. of each £1 of its capital intan-
gible ; at April 30 last the net tangible back-
ing amounted to 19s. per share, a visible
improvement of 4s. 3d., which is quite satis-
factory in the circumstances.
Last year the Australian Distillery, which
has a paid capital of £150,000, received
£11,375 on its share holdings, which stand
in the books at £164,825, and include 7343
shares in Brind’s. Interest and a handful
of office exes, took £1662, and £lOOO was
set aside as a sinking fund for the redemp-
tion of debentures. The balance (£8713)
was equal to 5.4 p.c. on capital. After
wiping out a p. and 1. debit of £2159 and
paying a 3 p.c. div., the co. started the cur-
rent year with £2054 in the cupboard.
In order to pay off the overdraft and clear
the books of some other liabilities, the Aus-
tralian co. raised £12,500 on 8 p.c. deben-
tures in 1926. These debentures, which are
repayable in 1935, have the right to convert
into shares at par until July next year; also
the co. is obliged to reserve not less than
one-tenth of its annual profits to provide
for their redemption. At June 30 none of
the holders had exercised their option, and
it is doubtful whether much fui’ther evidence
of the co.’s prospects will become available
before the right to convert expires.
The investment position is largely gov-
erned by the extent to which the operating
co. can further develop demand for its pro-
ducts. During the last term the co. put a
new line, .Crystal Court, a dry gin, on the
market, and results are said to be encourag-
ing. There has been a substantial increase
in whisky sales since the close of accounts,
due partly to a clearance of stocks prior to
the increase of 2s. per gallon in excise, which
increase the co. has passed on. Recently
Distillers Corporation Pty., Ltd., an offshoot
of the Distillers Co., Edinburgh, registered
in Melbourne with a nominal capital of
£250,000. It is erecting a still at Geelong,
but it will be some time before it can market
an Australian-made spirit. To what extent
competition is likely to develop remains to
be seen ; one effect should be to reduce im-
portations of spirits. Meantime the Federal
Co. has an excellent opportunity to further
build up its goodwill and strengthen its
finances.
The market for Australian Distillery’s
scrip sagged to 16s. 9d. about 18 months
ago, but has since strenthened to 21s. 3d.
A. G. Healing, Ltd.
The deficit to begin with in this case was
the capital of the new co. issued for good-
will of the old A. G. Healing and Co. Pty.,
Ltd.
r Dividends
Pref. Toward
June, Profits. 8 p.c. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
43,545
1927.. 28,592 1462 71 p.c. = 15,228 11,902 31,643
Preliminary exes., etc., £2991 .. 34,634
1928.. 24,927 5068 8 p.c. = 16,911 2,948 31,686
Removal exes., £2438 . . . . 34,124
1929.. 22,895 6 p.c. = 12,728 4,183 29,941
The business was started by A. G. Healing,
who set up in the bicycle trade in Melbourne
33 years ago. Presently the motor-cycle and
the motor-car created a host of new wants:
and very soon this co. had developed a large
and growing wholesale trade in motor acces-
sories, and more recently in wireless as well
—it has the Australian distributing agency
for Atwater Kent radio goods.
Shortly before the war the business spread
to Sydney, and then to Adelaide. Many of
the lines the co. sells are produced at its
factory in Melbourne, and the rest are
imported. A few years ago turnover put
on such a spurt that the business outgrew
the premises that housed it. So.. the co.
bought itself a freehold in Franklin-street.
Melbourne, and built a new seven-storeyed
home thereon, thus enabling the two fac-
tories (<?ne at North Melbourne and the other
at Carlton) and the warehouse (in Post
Office-place) to be brought under one roof.
Also a tlirec-storeyed warehouse was put up
in Adelaide on a 254- years’ building lease,
at a cost of £22,000.
It was mainly to help finance the new’
building programme that the public was in-
vited in and put up £50,000 of pref. money
a couple of - years ago. The other £24.800
of pref. and £212,140 of ord. capital is held
mostly by the proprietors of the old business
and their friends. Paid capital was thus
£286,940 at June 30.
Building operations, which were not com-
pleted until last year, must have caused dis-
turbance and dislocation of the business, and
increased the overhead. Moreover, for much


*Usf
LIA
a a
S?
it*#?***" T
fc* /
> -K--
iT - yjf
f . ;r ,r:
%gm^,sg
.-s»y
/■hr
m
r~*lW*
w
It is for you to decide
between Basber Gang; methods
and Industrial Peace!
Timber workers, aided and abetted, and openly encourag
mischievous Labor Leaders, have defiantly re use
ledge the decision of the Federal Arbitration Court.
Right in our very midst there has been a reckless policy o
mob violence and brutal savagery..
NINETY VOLUNTEER TIMBER WORKERS SMASHED BY
BASHER GANGS, forty-eight in hospital, maimed and broken,
because the Federal Court could not enforce its own decision.
Abolition of the Federal Court is the only logical step to bring
about Industrial Peace.
Mr. Bruce’s statesmanlike action in proposing to do away with
dual arbitration is welcomed by everyone who has experienced
the results of such a system.
ARO! TTION OF THE FEDERAL COURT MEANS SlMPLl-
ficatSn OF arbitration, better conditions and
BETTER WAGES.
The National Government does not intend to do away with the
Basic Wage. Arbitration administered by State Courts does not
mean reduced wages. These are false issues that have been
raised by Theodore, Scullin and their followers.
All law-abiding unionists welcome the measure. It is the agitator
who believes in Soviet Russia who is opposed to it.
FOR AUSTRALIA’S SAKE
For Peace, Progress and Prosperity
VOTE FOR THE SELECTED
NATIONAL CANDIDATE
Authorised by H. W. HORSFIELD, General Secretary, 15 Bligh Street, Sydney.


FOR ATTENTION OF INVESTORS.
£)OCTOR leaving Australia wishes dispose COO paid-up shares, or part, 65/- each. Present liquidated
value is 100/-. Dividends practically assured for 10 years, giving minimum 20 p.c. on 65/- and
Capital back in lump sum. Also 200 Shares liquidated value 28/- for 22/- each. These should
return 40 p.c. for six years, plus Capital. Apply quickly. Investigation solicited.
Wanted £9500 on Reducible Mortgage, Perth Security, valued £75,000, l'O p.c. interest. Principals
only.
AUSTRALIAN SERVICE CO., 38 Pitt Street, Sydney, where reliable information regarding excellent
speculative investments in City of Perth, W.A., can be obtained.
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Officer Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-Glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone,
etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
ŵ
ẁ
Of the 26 New Guinea and Papuan gold
concerns now trumpeting their prospects, 21
have Sydney for a home; Rabaul, South Aus„
Vic. and Queensland one each. There is
no doubt that gold digging in Pitt-street is
a pretty good business for some people.
*'* * *
Inventors. —Have you an Idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coloison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
>h * * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe is absolutely non-corrosive, a
feature that is of the utmost importance in con-
sidering the effective life of a pipe line—maintenance
cost, capacity and purity of the liquid content of the
pipe. Many important installations of Pioneer Wood
Pipe prove the high efficiency of this conduit for
practically any purpose. Full information in illus-
trated data book—free on request to the Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove,
N.S.W. (near Figtree Bridge) ; and at Footscray,
Victoria. — Advt.
❖ # % '
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicafcor of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
Ht * # #
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used at
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
Get your
&
PAINTS and
VARNISHES
from
AGENTS
EVERYWHERE.
THEY "KEEP ON KEEPING ONI
lIIIU
of the last two years there has been a lot
of interest-bearing money represented by new
premises not bringing in any return. It is
not surprising therefore that the 1928 profits
were £3665 short of the previous year’s.
During the last generally depressing 12
months conditions for the co. became more
difficult. Turnover at the Sydney branch,
which lately bought the spare-parts stock of
Williams Bros., Ltd., was further affected by
recent restrictions placed on parking areas
in the city; also the migration of the motor-
trade to less congested areas in William-
street and Wentworth-avenue did not help
either. Because of all this the co.’s ware-
house in Sydney is to be removed to more
suitable quarters. In Adelaide the business
showed better results than hitherto, despite a
bad season and quieter trading conditions
generally in South Aus. After capitalising
£2438 of removal exes., and setting aside
£5500 for taxation, there was a shrinkage
of £2032 in the year’s net result (£22,895).
The pref. div. took £5984, and the balance
was 7.9 p.c. on average ord. capital com-
pared with 9.4 p.c. and 13.3 p.c. for the two
preceding years, so a couple of points were
knocked off the div., reducing it to 6 p.c.
Goodwill (£43,500 —probably worth more)
and removal exes (£3312) are not treated as
assets herein; thus £29,941 of the capital
-was unrepresented by tangibles at the close
of last accounts.
To complete its building programme and
carry heavier stocks the co. has had to go a
bit into debt, as this comparison of balance-
sheet figures shows: —
1927. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital .. .. £229,470 £285,955 £286,940
Overdraft .. .. 16,891 30,098 34,230
Mortgages and loans .. 15,563 61,080 90,957
Sundry creditors .. 71,013 59,487 68,850
Freeholds, etc. .. 29,179 104,072 122,380
Plant, etc 12,520 19,134 23,964
Stocks .. -.. .. 161,272 180,356 204,308
Book debts, cash, etc. 124,548 127,705 123,206
Last year an extra £29,877 was raised on
mortgage and loans, £9363 was tacked on to
the amount coming to sundry creditors, and
£4132 on to the overdraft. On fixed assets
£23,138 more was spent than was written
off. and the book value of stocks increased
£23,952. Hence the more or less liquid sur-
plus (£133,477, including stocks) was
£23,919 lighter than at the previous balance.
Still finances were quite comfortable; stocks
are reported to have been liberally depre-
ciated.
Only the prefs. are listed. They carry a
fixed cumulative S p.c. and have priority as
to capital. Their backing amounts to £3 Bs. 9d.
per share in net tangibles, and last year’s
profit was nearly four times their annual
requirements. The market prices them
around 235. as against 21s. 9d. a year ago.
After allowing for the final (94d.) div. the
return at the current figure is 7.2 p.c.
Berlei, Ltd.
r~, Dividends
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927.. 16,332 2635 10 p.c. = 12,265 1432 25,948
1928.. 17,165 2635 10 „ „ 121382 2148 28,096
1929.. 16,595 2635 10 „ „ 12,479 1481 29,577
This Sydney co. manufactures women’s cor-
sets, and now supplies over half the Aus-
tralian market’s requirements. The develop-
ment of the business has been due largely
to the energy and enterprise of its managing
director, Fred Burley. Just on 20 years ago
he gave up his job as manager of a ware-
house in Sydney to become a partner in a
small corset-making business there. Pre-
sently he persuaded his brother Arthur and
some friends to join" him; they bought out
the other partners, a-nd put up a fresh name-
plate, Unique Corsets, Ltd. This little co.
stepped along quietly until 1920, when capi-
tal had grown to a modest £50,000. Then the
Government gave the industry a bit more
protection ; the co. installed new plant, bought
the corset business of Zander’s, and recon-
structed under its present title. The public
was invited in and put up £30,000-odd of
preference capital, and investment interest
was recently widened by the listing of the
ords. —there are 163,063, with 15s. per share
(£38,250) at call on 51,000 of them.
It is only during the last few years that
the business has attracted much attention.
In 1923 the assets of Australian Corsets,
Ltd., a concern which had got into deep
water, were bought, and Berlei (N.Z.), Ltd.,
was formed. Last year, in addition to pay-
ing a 10 p.c. div., this. Maoriland übsidiary
made a one-in-five bonus scrip issue paid to
15s. per share. Two years ago another sub-
sidiary, Berlei Pty., Ltd., started to manu-
facture in Melbourne, and is reported to
have earned improved profits for the last
term. Dividends aggregating £8538 have
been declared by these tw r o cos. since June
30, but have not been included with the
parent’s figures for the 12 months to that
date.
What promises to be the foundation of
much future business was laid three years
ago, when, in order to further improve the
design and fit of its products, the co. organ-
ised an anthropometrical survey of Austra-
lian women. Many thousands were mea-
sured, and from the data thus obtained the
co.’s medical advisers evolved five standard
types. Next a mechanical type indicator was
devised, thus enabling both the co. and the
retailer to give better service.
After providing for depreciation, etc., and
paying the bill for taxation (£4642), but
making no provision to meet the next bill
when it arrives, the accounts claim a net
profit of £21,570 for the year to June 30.
That was £4381 more than was claimed for
the previous term after £5OOO had been re-
served for the taxgatherer. However, pay-
ment of an extra £1624 in profit-sharing
dividends to the staff (£3224) suggests that
last year’s result was, as the board claims,
better than the one that preceded it. Never-
theless £2051 of reserves disappeared with-
out comment; thus the final figurejas far as
shareholders are concerned (£16,595) visibly
fell away £570. Margins between earnings
and distributions have thus far been narrow,
and reserves were only £29,577 in excess
of the £4900 of goodwill at June 30.
Here is the co.’s position as far as balance-
sheet figures disclose it: —
1928. 1929.
Paid capital £157,436 £158,436
Mortgage .. .. .. 26,000 26,000
Overdraft .. .. .. 34,266 40,009
Sundry creditors .. .. 15,200 12,838
Freehold 58,660 58,660
Plant .. 18,314 16,530
Investments .. .. .. 33,458 36,710
Stocks 121,634 131,366
Book debts .. ' .. .. 33,838 29,242
Cash, etc. 2,602 1,908
The important item there is stocks, up
£9732 during the year. They represent over
51 p.c. of the balance-sheet total, and much
obviously depends upon the figure at which
they have been written. Over half their total
book value was in raw materials, mostly
imported. The co. has to carry heavy stocks
in order to ensure prompt service, thus
enabling the retailer to reduce his risks. The
growth of £3252 in investments reflects the
purchase of control in Ladderproof Textiles,
Ltd. Excluding investments, but including
stocks, the more or less liquid surplus
(£83,669) improved £lO6l during the year.
Since the close of accounts the board has
decided to commence manufacture in London,
and a subsidiary, in which an English corset
manufacturing concern will also become
interested, is to be formed there. To provide
for further expansion of its business here
the co. offered 17,055 prefs. last month, and
they were quickly over-subscribed. Including
this issue the net tangible backing amounts
to £4 17s. per pref. share, and their annual
requirements were covered over four times
by last year’s net profit. They carry a fixed
cumulative 8 p.c., and have priority as to
capital.
On the market the prefs. fetch 235.,
giving a return of 6.9 p.c. The fully-paid
ords., which have a net tangible backing of
235. 7d., are priced at 235. 6d.; the return
at that figure is 8.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis.
Profits—What Are They?
Of course The Bulletin’s remarks on
“Profits —What Arc They?” have produced a
harvest of letters. A few support the Goal
Commission in its decision to disregard wast-
age of the principal assets in arriving at
the profit made by coal-mining companies;
and every one of these correspondents does
the same thing—quotes one or more authori-
ties on accountancy to show, so they allege,
that the Commission merely followed expert
advice. Dicksee, for instance, and his
advanced accountancy treatise are produced
again and again. Yet Dicksee says, just as
The Bulletin said last week, that “at
the expiration of the venture the whole or
the bulk of the capital will have been dis-
sipated” ; wherefore “the distributions made
to proprietors during the continuance of the
venture are not true profits, but a surplus
of incomings over outgoings, which includes
the gradual distribution of capital.”
What the authorities say in effect is: “We
cannot in the case of mines separate profit
from return of capital. And because we
cannot decide how much is required for the
latter purpose, we cannot say what the true
profit is.” But the Coal Commission said
something quite different: in effect, because
it did not know what was required for
return of capital, therefore it would dis-
regard it, and would proceed to determine the
profit as though the other factor had no
existence. And The Bulletin insists that
this is entirely wrong.
It is admitted that neither the Commis-
sion nor anybody can determine with
exactitude what any coalmine’s profits are.
The nearest that we can get is to say that
the profit per ton is 2s. Id. (or whatever it
may be) less the amount necessary to wipe
out the capital cost of the mine, including
purchase and development. That amount
may be shillings a ton or it may be only
pence. One cannot say in advance, because
it is impossible to tell (1) how many tons
of marketable coal can be extracted from any
mine, or (2) what the cost of opening up
the mine and keeping it open will be.
The matter is very important, because in
these days Capital has to satisfy Labor that
it is not a shark: it can no longer say,
“Those are my terms —take them or leave
them.” Anything which is calculated to
mislead Labor as to the extent of the return
Capital is getting is therefore dangerous—
dangerous not to Capital only but to Labor
and the whole community. Because, for one
thing, if capital costs are to be disregarded
in fixing wages, etc., how are you going to
have new mines opened up? What sane
investor would put his money into a coal
property on that basis?
The Central Australian Find.
The silver-lead discovery at Jervois Range,
Central Australia, has caused a flutter on
the Adelaide Stock Exchange. The discovery
was made by prospector Hanlon and party,
who pegged out three claims, totalling 180
acres, along what is believed to be the main
line of lode. J. O’Neill secured an option
over these claims and sold it to the Emu
Prospecting Co. for £2OO cash for the first
three months, another £lOOO for a three
months’ extension, the final purchase price to
be £5500 cash and £25,000 in paids in a
£lOO,OOO c». to be formed.
Thus far nothing definite has reached the
“Wild Cat” as to values. What has excited
interest is that Colin Fraser, chairman of the
B. PI. South and managing director of
the Associated Smelters, at Port Pirie, George
Klug, general manager of Zinc Corp., and
geologists C. G. Gibson, R. L. Shepherd and
Jim Hebbard have. all been rushed to the
field per aircraft.
Shepherd’s opinion is that the lode is un-
doubtedly a large one, with possibilities of
high silver values, and important enough to
warrant thorough prospecting.
The future of the field will, of course, de-
pend upon values. Transport, distance from
port and water-supply are factors; but if the
values are there all the other things can
be overcome.
One of the latest Papuan-New Guinea pro-
positions to rear its head in Sydney is
Lakekamu (New Guinea) Gold. Capital is
£40,000 in 2s. shares, of which A. J. Ken-
rick, who located the find and is returning
to peg the leases, takes 20,000 paids when
he has acquired the areas. The promoters,
in their modesty, 'collar 40,000 paids, and
200,000 contribs. are offered. A further
100,000 will be offered at par to the con-
tribs. when the first area is acquired; the
other 40,000 will be reserved. The pro-
position is in the Central Division of Papua,
and accessible by the Lakekamu and Tauri
Rivers. This sounds very like a country of
low hills between the Lakekamu and the
Tauri to the west, which was prospected 20
years ago by several men from the then
flourishing Lakekamu field, including George
Arnold, now in New Guinea. From this a
number of creeks run down into swampy
country between the two rivers and good
alluvial was found in some of these and in
the swamps into which they led ; but so far as
the “Wild Cat” knows, the find was never
followed up to discover the parent reefs —if
there are any. The prospector’s report speaks
of reef formations as well as alluvial, but
neither Papua nor New Guinea has produced
much in the way of a reef in some 50-odd
years’ search.
* * * *
South Comet, Dundas (Tas.), over which
Adelong Gold Estates and Y Water cos. have
lately taken an option, is turning out very
well. Latest reports show that the ore body,
which is being driven on 200 ft. vertically
below the upper level, where the lode was
850 ft. long and 4Jft. wide, is widening, and
lead and zinc values have increased. The
South Comet was taken over by the late Tom
Palmer, and it is hard to understand why
this present development work was not under-
taken before. The former South Comet Co.
erected a flotation plant a short distance
from the mine with an aerial ropeway to
transport the feed. The ore offers no par-
ticular treatment difficulty, and is not as
fine-grained as the Hercules, Read-Rosebery
or Tasman and Crown Lyell.
* * * *
Three new Australian dredges in Malaya
completed their first full month’s digging in
September. Muang Tin, the first subsidiary
of Austral Asiatic, has made a very pro-
mising start with 30 tons from 77,000 yards,
an average of ,871 b. The dredge is still open-
ing out, and a better return may be looked
for. Boring on this property disclosed even
higher values —as much as 21oz. to the yard
in sections. The co. was floated in Sep-
tember, 1927, and the dredge was digging
24 months later; it was quick work, for
which the directors, headed by Joseph Tom-
linson, deserve a bouquet.
Peninsula Tin, a Melbourne float regis-
tered as a reconstruction of another co. in
1926, can also claim credit for a satisfac-
tory kick-off. The first month’s work has
yielded 22 tons from 82,000 yards, with the
very decent average of ,601 b. per yard.
Rangeng, another Melbourne float, has not
done so well; its work was largely in the
nature of opening out. From 48,000 yards
turned over, 625 tons of oxide were recov-
ered, or over .171 b. per yard.
* * * *
Some of the profits for September from
Malayan tin-dredges indicate there is still a
crust in the business. The group of six
mines associated with Alluvial Tin cleaned
up £28,698 net for the month. Rawang Con-
cessions headed the list with £9917, Changkat
is close up with £9566, and Kampar fills third
place with £5600. Kampong Lanjut, in its
second month of digging, returned £2683.
Rawang and Kundang whip in with £466
each. The combined issued capital of the
above concerns amounts to £1,702,500.
* * * *
The four working members of the Austral
Malay group, with a combined capital of
£430,000, realised a profit between them for
the month of £4842, including the net value
of 5i tons of oxide recovered from pre-
liminary digging on the new lease at Kara-
gan. Thabawleik took pride of place witli
£2357, despite customary high costs—the
September figure was 10.2 d. per c.y. Asam’s
share was £l5BO, with Kampong (£700) and
TJlu Yam (£25) in that order. Puchong,
another of Austral’s subsidiaries, has com-
menced digging, but, in view of the depth
of the barren overburden to be disposed of,
it does not expect to get recoveries for a
couple of months or so.


ẃ
IN Plymouth, as in all Chrysler
Motors cars, full consideration
has been given to all those things
that motorists of today cherish
in the motor cars they own.
From the standpoints of com-
fort, of style, of easy handling
and of genuine capability for
any motoring task, this full-
size Plymouth offers advan-
tages that usually are found
only in cars of higher price.
Plymouth 4-Door Sedan
Feature after feature, pioneered
and perfected originally for the
higher-priced Chrysler creations,
is embodied in the Plymouth
giving it the character -and the
distinctiveness of costlier cars. It
has refinement. It has poise.
There is a certain charm about
it that makes you proud to own
and drive it. With all its other
advantages, it is remarkably eco-
nomical to operate and maintain.
P. 1 2 4 3.
hrysler motors product
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales . . Larke, Neare & Carter Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Collins Motors Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Ward Motors Limited, Brisbane
West Australia Wm. Attwood Motors Ltd., Perth
South Australia .... O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania Metro Motors Pty. Ltd., Hobart
New Zealand Todd Motor Company, Wellington
New Guinea W. R. Carpenter & Co. Ltd., Rabaul


MONTE CARLO
By leaving Australia in November, December or
January, travellers can reach Switzerland in time
for the Winter Sports, then go south to the Riviera,
visit Monte Carlo in the height of the season and
see the life of the Continent at its best before cross-
ing to England for the Spring. Book by the
Otranto, Orford, Oronsay, Orontes or Orama,
the five 20,000 tonners of the Orient Line which
sail from Sydney during these months.
Travel to Europe by
ORIENT LINE
m
Sib.
THi
y
&
' ;
M
& S
1
Y
A\{
u
5
fV3»
* .a t
n
nfe
i ,
S?
/A
lm
m


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Offices
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Pisk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., et
SERVICE
EQUIPMENT
MEANS —Better Service —Improved Income.
COMPLETE EQUIPMENT INCLUDES:—
BRAKE-TESTING MACHINE.
BRAKE DRUM LATHE—for cars and trucks.
SUPER WHEEL PULLER—with adapters.
COMBINATION DRILLING AND COUNTERSINKING MACHINE
AND RIVETER.
For full particulars apply to Factory Rep.—-JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. BOX <l. MELBOT RV .
BRAKE
w
ABORIGINALITIES
*Koorbaroo, magpie. f ßooloo } snake.
Hi H< ❖ ❖
“W.J.E.”: Henry Lawson’s Mitchell, who
didn’t believe in the sack, always reminds
me of Bristol Billy, of Hay or thereabouts.
Billy had been working on the station just
on 50 years when the boss sacked him.
He drew his money, went into town, got
on the spree, and then came back to the
old home. “I thought I let you go,” the boss
said. “Ah, no you don’t!” replied Billy;
“you’ve had 50 years of my life, and you’re
going to have the rest of it.” Billy stayed
for a couple of years in idleness, and was
then sent to a home in Sydney, where he
was killed in a fight with another inmate.
“E.S?”: Brogan looked at the sun, then
dropped his swag at the woodheap and sat
down to wait for the selector to come home
from his work and ask him if he had had
his dinner. Presently the woman of the
bouse came out and started to cut chips oft
a- log with a blunt axe to boil the kettle.
Brogan watched her with an air of resent-
ment for a moment or two, then gathered
up his belongings and left. “I canJ kear
to see a woman chop wood,” he confided to
me later on.
* * * *
“Joe Daggs”: If there’s anything harder
than properly seasoned Tasmanian red
myrtle I’ve yet to meet it. I dismantled an
old hut built with a myrtle frame, with the
idea of using the battens in another shed.
A rip saw would hardly look at them, and
ordinary nails turned up at the first hit,
no matter how they were struck.
* * * *
“Tee Essbie”: What have our forestry and
timber experts been doing all this time .'
Nearly 15 years ago a dry Norfolk Island
pine was removed from Sydney Botanical
Gardens and-a big log cut from it found a
resting-place in the old burning oil yard
alongside the Art Gallery
in the Domain. Whilst
tidying up recently, gar-
deners found the log under
a heap of rubbish and sent
it to the depot. It was
sawn up, and an expert
found that the timber was .
as good as when the tree
was felled. When planed
the wood showed grain and
markings equal to the best
kauri. Yet I have never
heard of Norfolk pine be-
ing used for anything but
firewood and, in two in-
stances, gate-posts.
“Bert Dawson”: The
news has just been pub-
lished that the fox has
found his way to the
Tweed River; but specu-
lations as to what • will
happen- when he moves
further north are a waste
of energy, because the
little red marauder set out
on that trip long ago, and
the South Burnett district
was overrun by his species
at least 15 years back.
What has happened since
has been quite a lot.
Ground-nesting birds, such
as the curlew and squatter
pigeon, have been thinned
out almost to the point of
extinction in many parts,
while the kangaroo-rat
rarely springs from his
grassy nest under your
horse’s feet these days.
He just isn’t there. The fox does not worry
the cattleman much, but a sheepman will
leap in the air and foam at the mouth at tlm
mere mention of the loathed name.
WHY WASTE TUPPENCE?
“Lend me tuppence, John, whiles I find oot if the MacNabs are hame."
"Losh, wurnman, dinna be extravagant Juist ask the lassie for the number, an when
she gets it an’ tells ye tae put twa pennies in—hang up an’ come oot.”
THE SCOOTER SHEIK.
“Mummy, stop Billy! He keeps on playing he’s a sheik and taking my dolly away
for joy rides.”
“Jack Hall”: Diggers that have tramped
and ridden on desert sands will remember
the scarab beetle. This little fellow will roll
a piece of offal into a ball and kick it along
from sunrise till sunset. One of the species
did a good deed at Mcascar when a trooper
attached a cigarette to him by a thread and
headed him for the “birdcage filled with
defaulters. The trooper’s cobber inside gave
a gasp of relief when the little chap
scrambled through the netting, and the guard
noticed nothing.
❖ *
“The Rumpus”: My dad was a bullock
teamster and once he took me to a sheep
station for a load of baled wool. Coming
back to Clermont across the black-soil plains
the wheels slowly ploughed in deeper and
deeper until we came to a standstill. lor
over an hour my father tried to get his
bullocks to pull out, but when beasts decide
to be • contrary special remedies must be
adopted. This meant Chinamen, and dad
streaked to the nearest camp of Chow
miners. He returned with four yellow
heathens, who refused to perform miracles
until I was taken from the top of the loan.
Then, two each side, they commenced to
dance a fandango, jabbering and yelling
frenziedly as if tortured by devils. Not a
whip did they use, or touch one beast, but
presently every yoke felt the strain, clociv-
clock” went axles in hubs, and the waggon
crawled forward slowly until safer ground
was reached and my father took charge
again. This was something I could never
understand, as my parent had hand-fed and
reared every bullock in his team.
* * * *
“AdeL.”: My entry for the weirdest and
most ill-assorted mateship is a hen and her
brood, an old crow, a goshawk, a water-
snake and an Bft. crocodile. The hen, prefer-
ring the company of the wild things
inhabiting a near-by swamp rather than her
own-sort, took to laying-in the rushes by the
\yater." The locality was infested by egg-
' thieving snakes, yet she; successfully reared
a large brood,, of chickens. Awhile back,
hearing a'-commotion in the swamp, I
ventured forth and witnessed an unusual
si gilt. The old man crow, holding a live
lizard, was fiercely arguing with the hawk,
which had brought a large piece of carrion
tc the chicks. The mother-hen listened
attentively to the argument, while some of
the chickens joyfully hopped over the croc.,
lazily stretched in the mud close by, and
others were pecking at the serpent’s tail
while it refereed in the dispute. A week
has passed by. Still the crow and the hawk
lovingly feed the chicks; the serpent protects
them from other less friendly reptiles, even
keeping the hoose-cat at a distance; and
the croc, contentedly remains the chickens
friend and plaything. It loves to carry them
on its hack over the mud, playfully tips them
off, to their great joy, and sweeps them on
board again with its huge tail. Both the
croc, and the snake are pets, and you can
buy them nothing they like better than a box
of caramels. t
# * * *
“Biralaco”: Humorists evidently had a
big say in the bestowal of place-names in
N.S.W., as the following list proves: Tom-
boy, Urliup, Broke, Green Pigeon, Home
Rule, Sodwalls, Nevertire, Windy >Vhoppa,
Jfnglemoney, The Risk, Mate, Finger-post,
Monkey, Guy Fawkes, Firefly, Ward’s Mis-
take, Wilson’s Downfall, Come-by-Chance,
Sleepy Hollow, Cob o’ Corn, Running Stream,
Bark Hut, Five Day Creek, Jawbone and
Bogaduk. Still more eccentric or quaint
are some of the Ma State’s sheep and cattle
station names. '.Here are some of them:
Stoney Broke, Keepit, Willigobung, Lucks-
‘ali; Rou'ghit, Hoiiit, Iriskit, Baalgammon,
.Killimcat,' .Roaring Camp, Luck Enough,
Peep o’ Day (Far West), Longingetten-(this
,sip%cks/ofithe land-balloting system), Pine-
lrilla, Why-not, Bucking Barney, Cowbail,
Cadgencarfy, Moneygetta and Pine Not.
, J*. * * *
, “Frigid” : I nominate gympie as the
.lightest timber in Australia. It can be lighter
than cork; a man can pick up a couple
of logs /lOft. • long and a foot square and
' carry one under each arm with compara-
tive ease. The bark is greenish-grey
and soft. The leaves are like elephant ears,
a foot wide and heart-shaped,- yellowish-
green in hue, and covered with close-set
stinging liaii£, ./whose touch causes pain.
Hence it is. sometimes called the giant nettle.
(Continued on page 25.)
ABO BILLY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dinner time at Cullumbone;
Skearin’ in full swing, _
Rouseabouts are rushin’ in
At the cowbell’s ring;
Abo Billy sneaks away,
Quiet as anything.
“White man tucker no dam’ good;
Me go soolem ’roo,
Spearem emu, knockem duck,
Chasem big boo-100.
By’m self old Billy go,
Snare it koorbaroo* !”
Supper time at Cullumbone;
Running come the men ;
’Possums playin’ in-urn tree,
Billy back again.
“Throwem good old boomerang,
Make-it scatter then!
• “Buildit fire of little sticks,
Roast black-pfeller style,
Skin an’ all lay on-um coals
Smell-it half a mile.
That one budgeree ! My word !
Make-it Billy smile!
“White man tucker no dam’ good;
Me go find curlew,
Moonem ’possum, knockem duck,
Catchem big booloot!
By’m self old Billy go,
Spear-it kangaroo!”
N.S.W.
MARY BELL.


more Dunlop!
It adds much to the enjoyment of
motoring when you select tyres by
DUNLOP
Not only does their quality and great strength ensure
outstanding mileage that is particularly satisfactory but
they are built and balanced to combine all the features
essential to withstand the stresses of modern motoring.
r i
xO
/
JL
irir
/V 7
v,(*V5
lr"
P
»
3
DUNIOP/
| 3 riLOP
4?
gr
VHtOy
N
//,
/
\ \
*3 *
\-
.•/ >
H
■
Wwmmm
*WI
%
■-:*: S
S«S£
2
DUX t'OP
1
8000 GARAGES
STOCK DUNLOP
Covers a Tubes
more big mileage that will please!


PEAPES
clothe men AND their sons.
Write for a copy of PEAPES’
Summer Catalogue, just
issued—a guide to new style,
new comfort, new lightness in
correct clothing for warm-
weather wear,
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
mi
m
JHE GREYS
SIZEoTWO
SILK CUT VIRGINIA.
They Satisfy
because they are made from 1 00
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a “GREYS.”
LONDON
1® for <sdL CIGARETTES X® for 1/®
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights"
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20.
#8
'?•
V fc
u
The
Wool
is
Grown
Shorn
and
Sold
year after year. Its condition, length, quality and
the market for it may vary from time to time. But
under all circumstances this action shows decided
advantages.
SEND THE CLIP TO—
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
SELLING BROKERS. LTD.
Sydney or Brisbane.
I The firm’s active, able work as salesmen is a decisive
force in producing top market values.
“Sea Nomad”: Native skin divers in the
northern pearling fields are forced to adopt
a spartan diet, for on a full stomach they
can neither dive deep nor stay under long.
Tea without sugar and a hunk of dry damper
is generally their breakfast and midday meal.
At night they have a more substantial meal.
Eating an excess of sugar is blamed for
causing a man “short wind.” When a man
works at such a depth that pressure is tell-
ing, “bell him ring longa ear !” Should he
THE SUDDENNESS OF EVERYTHING.
STATION BOSS, J.P.: “Want to be married, Jacky? But you’ve got a family already.”
JACKF: “Yes, Boss, but I had to wait till I got me plurry breath!”
disregard the bell there comes a crack as if
his ear-drums had burst. Brought up on
deck he bleeds from nose and ear, and some-
times spins round and round like a sick
fowl. If left to himself he cuts the tip of
his nose, which then bleeds profusely and
relieves the pressure in liis head. After a
long spell on shore it comes very hard on
a boy to again get his ear-drums “tuned up.”
He accustoms them to under-water pressure
by taking the first week steady, descending
to a slightly greater depth each day, and
gradually staying under longer.
* * * *
“Si Dina” (Fiji) : The other night I was
out fishing with a Fijian, and was just about
asleep, when all of a sudden I woke
to find myself disappearing over-
board. Before the boy had time to
pull in both the anchors 300 yards
of line had burnt my hands. As
soon as the anchors lifted we set
out in a way that would put Syd-
ney’s outboards in the shade. We
thought a big cod or a shark had
us in tow until the speed slackened,
and we heard the wheeze of a
turtle up for air. We guessed
then what had happened—a cruis-
ing turtle had got the hook stuck
in his collar. In time we managed
to get over him, and when he came
up for air again he was almost be-
side the boat. The boy was all for
jumping over and turning him on
his back, as the natives usually do ;
but we’d been catching too many
sharks recently, and I wouldn’t let
him —which lost him and his cob-
bers a good feed and me a few
quids’ worth of shell. Just then he
got off the hook, and hit out for
other pastures with one of the
Fijian’s spears in his back looking
like a periscope.
“Sailor Quack” : Among many South Sea
tribes a custom.known as the “couvade” or
man-childbed is common. When a child is
born, the mother takes up her work as usual
next day, but the father retires to his ham-
mock, eats only weak cassava gruel, does
not smoke, wash himself or touch his
weapons, and is tenderly nursed by all the
women of his village for many days and
sometimes weeks. Scientists cannot explain
the origin of the custom, but suggest that
it is to assert the identity of the father in
relation to the child, the mother s relation
being obvious.
“Up North”: In Cape York Peninsula,
amongst the isolated mining camps, there are
some very expert native tucker thieves. Con-
ditions help them, for many of the fossickers’
huts are miles away from the main camps.
In districts where the tucker supply arrives
NOTHING TO GAIN BY IT.
COHEN: “That young Finkelstein feller isn’t much good. He vouldn’t set the world
on fire.”
ISAACS: “Vy should he—he don’t own it!”
only once in three or four months, a raided
camp is a serious matter. A nigger thief
spies on his intended victim perhaps for
weeks, learning all his movements, his habits,
the locality in which he works, and particu-
larly if his baking day is on a Sunday or
week day. When the time is ripe the fos-
sicker is watched to his work. When he
is nicely settled the thief hurries back _ and
tries to force the padlocked door. Failing
this, he tomahawks through a sheet of bark,
or, if the hut is of logs, inserts a lever and
wrenches a log away. The rest is easy. The
camp is raided in cyclonic fashion, the loot
being passed out to, cobbers, who have been
playing sentry. The gins take up the look-
out until the men, heavily loaded, make for
the bush. Many ingenious traps have beeu
set for these fellows, and numbers have been
caught, but some become as cunning as the
dingo. A little while back a native who had
seriously troubled the scattered miners for
years was killed by a trap-gun. His long
continued success had blunted his caution.
The digger who set the trap was acquitted.
# * * =l=
“C. Coral”: Up north they still tell the
tale of the skipper of a pearling schooner
whose ship jambed fast on a stone
off the end of a reef, and the
experts advised him to blow out
the obstruction with dynamite.
“Simple enough,” said an old
hand; “you just get an old hoop,
fasten a plug of dynamite to
it, light the fuse, and the trick
is done.” But he omitted to men-
tion that the hoop should be of
iron, not wood, and that it should
go off under water. When the
skipper tried it his hoop floated just nicely
round the bows, and the resulting bang
knocked a bigger hole in his vessel than the
stone had made.
* * =!= *
“Atherton” : If the white man, as the say-
ing goes, must eat a peck of dirt before he
dies, the abo. must eat tons. No wonder
he has got the digestion of an ostrich, for-
from babyhood he is used to eating gravel and
charcoal. He gets this in his tucker. All
food is thrown on the coals and collects
its quota of grit. Vegetable food collects
the most, for the native flour is moistened,
chucked on the coals and often covered with
warm sand. Seed foods, nuts- and roots
are pounded up in various ways, with hands
and feet, smashed on wood, or ground be-
tween stones. Shellfish is smashed and
eaten on the seashore with hardly any
trouble taken to spit out the grit.
* * * *
“Bad Australian” : I have often tried to
ascertain the cause of the “pin-holing so
often seen in some of our hardwoods, but
without success until on a recent visit to a
southern logging camp I noticed a number of
small spikes like large caraway seeds stick-
ing out of a newly-barked log. On closer
examination these proved to be small hard-
shelled beetles as thick as a knitting needle
and about Jin. long. Some of the insects were
sunk almost out of sight while others were
just entering the sapwood, and they all stuck
out at right angles to the log. In my opinion
these beetles are responsible for more damage
than all the borers that ever came overseas.
“N’lmporte” : The big fig-tree in the main
street of Cairns is the mightiest in any
street in the world, it is said. Certainly
none in an Australian town or city can
cast its shade upon the Cairns shrub. Its
extensive girth, its loftiness and the spread
of its gigantic branches, apart from the
wonderful beauty of its seasonal change in
color, has held attraction for a million
tourists. Its age has not been counted, but
when Cairns was settled, more ’ than 60
years ago, it was an inhabitant of 200
years’ standing. But it seems to be in its
death throes. Its roots are still seeking
what they can devour, and they have unfor-
tunately selected the stone and concrete
walls of the near-by business houses. The
city aldermen are therefore torn between the
tree and the business places. And the tree
doesn’t pay rates,
* * * *
“J.8.C.”: Most of us were taught in the
of our youth of the w;onderful tailor-
bird of India, which sews leaves around its
nest; but how many Australians know that
in the golden-headed fantail-warbler we have
a fellow of similar habit? It is, in fact,
a member of the same species as the Indian
bird. Ours is more unusual in that it moults
twice in the year, its winter overcoat being
so different from its summer suit that it was
some time before ornithologists discovered
that they belonged to the same bird. It is
rather rare and, like most of the warblers,
very small (3£in.) ; and these facts, together
with its habit of spending most of its time
in long grass or crops, probably account for
its being so little known.
* * * *
“Pick” : “Homfrey Beale” wandered along
the wrong trail when lie decided (B.
28/S/’29) that eagles, through fearing a
massed attack from the small birds that
build under their nest-platforms, refrain from
molesting such diminutive neighbors. Eagles
do not constitute themselves a safeguard for
the nesters in their basement, but they afford
them involuntary protection all the same.
Various hawks, crows, butcher-birds and
even the laughing-jack at times raid the
nests of smaller birds, which are robbed too
by goannas, snakes and ring-tailed ’possums.
Such burglars never venture near when
there is an eagle nesting upstairs. And the
small birds, bv reason of their agility, are
safe in trespassing on the eagle’s domain.
The slow and lumbersome big fellow has no
chance of catching them, and their eggs and
brood are too insignificant for him to bother
about.
s*t ❖ ❖ $
“Pomegranate”: Castor oil shares with
sugar-bags, No. 8 wire., kerosene-tins and
greenhide the right to be regarded as a main-
stay of the Outback. Apart from the search-
ing nature of the bine bottle’s contents when
taken internally, it is an unguent for all
ills that oil will ease, a preventive of flies,
a standby lubricant for beast or machine, and
a tower of strength in the disciplining of
children. In many a home I have found it
raised to the status of a god of health. One
squeak from a child and it gets a dose
before any measures are taken to see
whether the ill is a broken bone or a fit
of temper. Before setting forth on a jour-
ney and upon returning home, before a jollo
of any kind and after it, and every Satur-
day night in order to induce a suitable Sab-
bath frame of mind—the blue bottle is a
never-failing refuge.
THE HORSE IN THE TREE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
High in the fork of a gnarled old tree
Was the skeleton of a horse
By the road that wandered to Wirrandee;
And I said to Charlie, who rode with me,
“Left there by a flood, of course.”
But Charlie answered, “Well, I must say
You fellows make me smile ;
For every person who comes this way
Just thinks the same, an’ he’s miles astray.
Now, I’ll give you the dinkum ile.
“I was on that moke when he stuck up
there —
’Twas a wonder I wasn’t killed;
But seein’ impediments everywhere
I shifted back in the atmosphere,
An’ only got bumped an’ spilled.
“You see, I was after a brumby mob,
Which hereabouts split an’ spread,
Goin’ lickety-split, me an’ Wirrandee Bob,
An’ didn’t see, till I reached that knob,
The tangle o’ scrub ahead.
“The only openin’ was through that fork,
An’, ’fore I had time to think,
Blue Streak went up like a popped-off cork.
But the game old moke was as fat as pork,
An’ jambed like a wedge in a chink.
“An’ there’s his bones; ’tis a wonder how
They’ve hung in the sun an’ shade;
But ‘The Horse in the Tree’ is a landmark
now
That drovers know, an’ they all allow
’Twas a dam’ fine leap he made.”
N.s.w.
E.S. SORENSON.


Our Service Department
Tliis page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Governess (N.S.W.), 24, six years’ exp. primary
school, seeks position as teacher in private school
or governess to station children. Refs. —2633.
Man (30), N.S.W., married, 7 years’ exp. dairying,
wants charge small dairy farm. Wages or share.
—2667.
Hobart lad (19) wants job on a mixed farm, or
station anywhere, preferably S.A. or Westralia. Will
work for keep and small wage.—267l.
Man (N.S.W.) seeks situation on sheep station.
Experienced in making sheep medicines. —2626.
Administrative accountant, wide exp. in office and
business organisation, desires engagement. Moderate
salary; services available at short notice. —2641.
Man 40, youth 18 (N;S.W.), with up-to-date
30cwt. motor-lorry, want work any kind, anywhere.
—2630.
Gentlewoman (over 50) will teach, do light
duties, manage, or act as companion for comfortable
home, country. Refs. —2601.
Strong lad (Tas.), 19, knowledge of electricity
and wireless, wants: job on mixed farm or sheep
station anywhere. Work hard for keep and small
wage.—2sB6.
Ex.-Gov. servant (nine years) and wife, certif.
gen. nurse, both capable, with knowledge of native
races, seek positions.—2s97.
English lady, experienced nurse, good sailor,
desires position as travelling companion to invalid
or elderly lady or would take charge of children
in return for passage to England.—269l.
Gardener, handyman, Q’land, can milk, ride, help
kill and handy with tools, also look after horses,
wants job on station. Three years in present job.
—2686.
To buy, “Every Man His Own Assayer,” by
Campbell.—2s9s.
To buy Zeiss Fillo binoculars XB, or will make
exchange.—2636.
To buy “Black Opal,” by K. S. Prichard. —-2682.
Woman (N.S.W.), 21, wants correspondents living
in S’Africa, Egypt, India and the Pacific Islands.
—2588.
Young landowner desires correspondents, any age,
M.L. and Aus.—26o9.
Junior cricketer wants to correspond with same
in England or S’Africa. —2638.
Words of “Bush Christening,” and “He stood
within the felon’s dock.”- —2666.
Information Sought.
(1) Is opal-mining profitable? (2) What
facilities are there for the sale of opal?—
2580.
(1) Barely tucker in it, unless you have
very exceptional luck. (2) Most Australian
firms of manufacturing jewellers will buy
good stone.
Would an amateur motor-cyclist infringe
his status by riding on a track owned by a
company which pays riders ss. appearance
money and offers cash prizes? —-2559.
Yes. No amateur can compete for cash
prizes, nor with professionals unless his
State organisation permits.
(1) How does a boy (13) enter the Naval
College, Jervis Bay? (2) Fees, prospects,
chances of promotion, etc.? (3) Can he
resign, if not suited, after a probationary
period ? —2428.
(4) Apply Sec. Navy Office, Defence
Dept., Melbourne. Only boys v/lio turn 13
in the year the exam, is held are eligible.
For next entry he must have been born in
1917. (2) Write to address given for
pamphlet containing full information. (3)
Yes. But if he resigns before reaching 2
his parent must contribute towards the cost
of his maintenance and education at the
college.
(1) Whereabouts in North Australia is
tantalite found? (2) What are its commer-
cial uses? (3) In what class of country is
•t. discovered? (4) Value? —2627.
(1) It has been mined spasmodically in
the West Arm district, near Darwin, for
some years. (2) The ore is the chief source
of the metal tantalum used in the manufac-
ture of radio tubes, electric-light filaments
and alloys. (3) In granite, pegmatite and
gneissen dykes, usually associated with tin
and wolfram and distributed very irregularly.
(4) Tantalum ore was recently quoted in
U.S.A. at 50s. per unit of tantalum oxide
on a basis of 60 per cent. ore. Tantalum
metal in sheets is worth £lB per lb. and
the powder £9 per lb. Reference to this
metal was made in tlie “Wild Gat” Monthly
for Feb., March, May and .June of this
year.
What is the difference between (1) part-
ners: (2) joint, -owners; and (3) owners in
common ? —2628.
(1) A partnership results from a contract
by which two or more persons agree to com-
bine property of labor, or both, for the
purpose of a common undertaking, with a
view to a common profit. Unless otherwise
agreed, partners are entitled to share equally
in the capital and profits of the business,
and must contribute equally to losses.
Every partner is liable jointly with his
fellow-partners for all partnership debts
to the whole extent of his rpenr>«. arid,
after death, his estate is liable for
unsatisfied debts, subject to the prior pay-
ment of bis separate debts. (2) Real and
personal property may be held by two or
more persons as joint tenants, in which case
they have one estate in the whole and not
in any particular part, and if one dies the
whole estate goes to the survivors or ulti-
mate survivor. (3) Tenants in common
hold shares to which they have a distinct
and several title and which are not neces-
sarily equal. They have unity of possession
but not unity of interest or of title. As to
his own undivided share the tenant is in
the position of a distinct estate-owner.
(1) Docs the Governor of an Australian
State receive a salary from the Imperial
Government in addition to what he receives
from the State? (2) What salary does the
Viceroy of India receive? —2619.
(1) No. (2) Two hundred and fifty-six
thousand rupees a year, or, with the rupee
at par (Is. 6d.), £19,200.
What hooks are required for study for the
wireless experimenter's license ?_ Where
obtainable and at what cost? —2585.
“Handbook for Wireless Telegraph Opera
tors” (P.-M.G.’s handbook). Price Is., from
the Marconi School of Wireless, 97 Clarence-
stieet, Sydney; “Admiralty Handbook of
Wireless Telegraphy” (6s. 6d.), and “Wire-
less Valve Transmitters,” by W. James
(125.). Obtainable from Angus and Robert-
son.
(1) Where was the first railway line in
Australia constructed, and when was it
opened for traffic? (2) First in Queens-
land? (3) Was the first Queensland line
owned privately or by the Government? —
2614.
(1) From Melbourne (Flinders-street) to
Sandridge (now Port Melbourne) on Sept.
13, 1854. (2) From Ipswich to Bigge’s
Camp (now Grandchester) on July 31,
1865. (3) By the Government.
What advantage is there in painting the
outside of galvanised-iron tanks? —2584.
It protects the surface against rust, and
if aluminium paint is used it has a ten-
dency to keep the water cool.
(1) Best way to go about getting a trap-
nest for poultry-breeders on the Australian
market that is cheap and efficient, and is
patented? (2) Is there a demand for trap-
nests ? —2569.
(1) Get first into touch with A. Hordern
and Sons, Thorpes, Ltd., and Producers Co.-op.
Distributing Society, Ltd. —all Sydney. (2)
There may be a limited demand for a simple
and effective trap-nest, if cheap enough.
(1) Hoio to calculate roughly the acreage
of a six-sided plot of land for purposes of a
ringbarkmg contract? —2511.
Add together the length of all the sides
in chains. If the shape of the block is
regular—with about as much breadth as
length—and half as much again. If the
length is about twice the breadth add no-
thing. Divide the result in chains by 10 to
get the area in acres.
(1) Can oil paint be successfully used on
woodwork to which cold-water paint has
been applied? (2) Can cold-water paint
be mixed with linseed oil to use on an old
wooden building never previously painted?
(3) Best cheap paint or wash to use on old
wooden building ? —2594.
(1) Not unless you first scrape off all
water paint. (2) Half a pint of oil to
141 b. of dry paint may be added with advan-
tage to cold-water paints of a few well-known
brands when used on exterior surfaces.- The
addition must be made before water is added,
taking care to give a thorough stirring.
Such a paint would not fill cracks unless
these were of a hair-line nature. (3) Two
coats of a cheap oil paint, thinning the first
coat well with linseed oil, or use a creosote
oil stain as first coat.
Short of squaring the circle, is there any
accepted short-cut method by which the re-
lative proportions of a square and circle of
equal area can be visually demonstrated to
students? —2421.
Don’t know of any “accepted” method,
but here’s one that is visually accurate.
Strike a circle 4in. diameter and another
from the same centre sin. diameter. Draw
a square the corners of which touch the
outside circle. Inner circle and square are
of approximately the same area. The dimen-
sions will be right to l-100iu.—the thickness
of a pencil-line. For blackboard demon-
stration use feet instead of inches, when
the error will be less than sin., the thickness
of a chalk-line.
(1) Where can I secure practical and
theoretical knowledge of mine-dredging? (2)
What are the qualifications of a dredge-man?
(3) Addresses of the offices of some Malay
mines?— 24so.
(1) By getting a job on a dredging show.
A technical course in alluvial mining would
help. Write to Poole and Steel, Stephen-
street. Balmain (N.S.W.), or Chas. Ruwolt
Prop., Richmond (Vic.). Both manufacture
dredges for Australia and Malaya, and
might be able to help. (2) Must be a first-
class machinery hand, besides having dredging
knowledge; able to handle repair work, etc.,
in emergency. (3) Alluvial Tin, 26 Jamieson-
.street; Austral Malay, Challis House, Mar-
tin-place, both of Sydney ; Tongkah Harbor,
A.M.P. Chambers, Hobart; Tongkah Com-
pound, 395 Collins-street, Melbourne. All
these control several mines each.
My cattle-dog, seven year's old, is suffer-
ing from mange. (1) What's the cure? (2)
Should he be fed. on raw meat? —249B.
(1) The disease may be either mange or
eczema. Without personal inspection, can’t
prescribe. If it is mange, wash affected
parts with soap and Warm water, then rub
a little st.orexol. Leave on for three days,
then wash off and reapply. (2) Raw meat
is a dog’s natural food, and there’s no reason
to withhold it, though an occasional change
to green vegetables and gravy is recom-
mended.
I was buying a. car on hire-purchase and
last October asked the vendors for a. few
months' grace: failing that, I asked them
to repossess the car. The September and
October instalments were then clue, but they
did not repossess until November, by which
time another instalment wits due. I heard
nothing from them till last week, when they
claimed three months' overdue hire, plus £l2
for expenses. (1) Is this legal? (2) If they
sue me and I am unable to pay it, can they
sell my selection to pay their account? I
purchased it from the Agricultural Bank,
which holds a mortgage over it. The Crown
also holds a mortgage in respect of netting
supplied. I have no other assets except
sheep bought from and mortgaged to the
Ag. Bank. —2390.
(1) The vendors are entitled to recover
the unpaid hire. In the usual form of agree-
ment it is provided also that the owner may
recover from the hirer “any costs, expenses
and payments incurred or made by the
owner in connection with obtaining pos-
session of the car.” (2) No.
(1) If a person buys a property in N.S.W.
and has it stated in the agreement to pur-
chase that he is not liable for any claims for
rates against the property, is he liable ? (2)
If the Master in Lunacy sells a property in
liquidation of an asylum maintenance debt
and has a clause like the above inserted in
the agreement, can the Land Board and the
local shire claim for arrears in rent and
rates from him or from the purchaser ?—
2258.
(1). An agreement that the vendor should
pay the rates does not free the purchaser
from liability, but he may possibly be able
to take action against the vendor on the
breach of agreement. (2) The same principle
applies. The local authority does not concern
itself about agreements between the parties.
Should a person who engages a carpenter
for three or four days insure him against
accident? —2l74.
If the carpenter is not controlled in any
way by the employer as to the manner in
which he performs his work, etc., he is not
a worker within the meaning of the N. S.
Wales Act, and there is no liability in re-
spect of him.
(1) Under what conditions can one enter
the New Guinea police? (2) What are the
wages ?■ —2294.
(1) Apply to the Prime Minister’s Dept.,
Canberra, which will supply details. There
are no vacancies at present. (2) Warrant-
officer, first-class, £4OO to £474 p.a.; second-
class, £336 to £4OB p.a. Appointments are
made at the minimum of the class, and
advancement is made by four annual incre-
ments of £lB in the second-class, and by one
increment of £2O and three increments of £lB
in the first-class. W.-O.’s also get a uniform
allowance of £lB p.a.
(1) Are there any positions open in the
Federal or Vic. service as library assistants?
(2) Age and qualifications? (3) Salary? —
2214.
(1) No. (2) Appointments of assistants
in the Vic. Public Library are made by the
Public Service Commissioner from candi-
dates between 15 and 21 who have passed
examinations qualifying them to enter Mel-
bourne Uni. or their equivalent. (3) From
£lO4 to £299 a year for juniors. Subsequent
promotion depends upon ability and attain-
ment of a uni. degree.
(1) What is the advantage of registering
a mixed business (grocery, drapery, iron-
mongery) in N.S.W.? (2) What is the
registration fee? (3) Must registration be
renewed yearly?—- -2172.
(1) No business advantage, but the law
requires that every firm and every person
carrying on business or having any place of
business in N.S.W'. under a firm-name which
does not consist of the full or usual names
of all the partners or the person without
any addition shall register the name under
which the business is, or is intended to be,
carried on. Penalties are provided. (2)
7s. 6d. if registration is effected before
commencement of business, otherwise 15s.
(3) No, but any change in the constitution
of the firm or its name or in the address at
which business is carried on, or in the
addresses of the persons concerned, must bo
registered.
What are the three best methods of season-
ing timber in common use ? —2358.
Air seasoning, water seasoning and steam-
kilns. Kiln seasoning may be done by
water spray, external blower, internal fan,
or in a low-pressure, high-humidity compart-
ment.
(1) What wage is a, blacksmith's striker
(working in a garage and blacksmith's shop
combined and doing both classes of work )
entitled to as a permanent hand in N. 8.
Wales? (2) What is the definition of a
permanent hand? (3) Is there any differ-
ence in the award for a casual hand doing
the same work? —2160.
(1) 2s. 3d. per hour is prescribed for an
ironworker’s assistant in the Ironworkers’
Assistants, etc. (State), Award, as varied
July 22, 1927. (2) There is no definition
of a permanent hand in the award. (3)
No different rate is provided for a casual
hand doing this class of work.
About 12 months ago I planted three
native blue-gum trees. They have grown so
fast that the main trunk of each tree is too
weak to stand erect unsupported. Shall I
top them? Or what?— 244o.
Drive in stout stakes, and tie the trees
to these. Cutting the tops will have a ten-
dency to make the trees spread, and will
probably spoil their symmetry.
How can a Tasmanian boy of 10 with, an
intermediate certif. become an electrical
engineer in N.S.W. or Vic.? —24B4.
Qualify for a leaving certificate; then get
a position as' apprentice with one of
the many Sydney electrical firms. He
could then take the electrical engineering
diploma course at Sydney Technical College.
Classes are at night; the course takes five
years, and fees are £3 a year. Alternatively,
the electrical trades course (of a lower
standard) could be taken, for which an inter-
mediate certificate qualifies for enrolment.
I derive great benefit from drinking a
vegetable brew. How can I make it keep
fresh? After a few days it goes 50ur. —2242.
Can’t be done. The use of preservatives
is undesirable, and may interfere with the
efficacy of the drink. Although incon-
venient, it is better to boil up as required.
How can I prevent my feet perspiring
while playing tennis or other games? Is it
any use wearing very heavy socks, or two
pairs of socks? —2251.
If the perspiration is normal in amount,
woollen socks will probably prevent it. Ab-
normal perspiration may be checked by appli-
cation of X-rays. Some good may also Ut
done by dusting boric acid inside your socks.
If the perspiration is persistently abnormal,
consult a skin specialist.
(1) How to become a commercial
traveller? (2) Would a knowledge of sales-
manship be useful? —2346.
(1) As a rule he spends some years
inside a warehouse, gathering experience
and information concerning the wares he
handles, before being promoted to the
status of a commercial traveller. (2) It
is essential. A commercial traveller re-
quires experience, and knowledge of his goods,
salesmanship ability and a pleasing person-
ality.
Can a station-musterer or boundary-rider
be called upon to work on Sunday without
extra pay, and is he entitled to overtime rate
for all work in excess of 52 hours a week?
2259.
No. The hours and overtime clause of
the current Federal Award refers only to
“station hands (other than those acting as
cooks only) who work at or about the home-
stead on other than merely domestic duties.”
The debt on my house was originally
£B7O, repayable at the rate of 275. 6d. per
week, 7 per cent, interest, quarterly rests.
I have paid £5OO 10s. (7 years). How much
do I oive now, and how long will it take to
complete payment? —l49s.
The balance owing is about £790, and it
will take 20 years two quarters seven weeks
to repay it.
Brief Answers.
W.W.: Clark and Fauset, Brisbane; West-
ralian Farmers, Perth. .. .J.D.: Stretch out tent top
smoothly and give each side of duck several coats
or boiled linseed oil, applied thinly but thoroughly,
rubbing the first coat well in W.R.E.W.: Can’t
undertake to answer questions concerning the profits
made by private traders.... Mrs. M.: No; what is
not suitable for one may be suitable for the other. ...
J.M.: “Ventriloquism and Juggling,’’ by King and
Clark (3s. posted), W. Andrade, 173 Pitt-street,
Sydney. .. .E. 11.: Your tickets did not win prizes....
A. Brad: Only safe way is to (1) put your money
on fixed deposit for a couple of years; .(2) get a
job with a go,od store. Tell a wholesale house the
circs., and it might find you the job P.H.D.:
Consult “Manual of Military Hygiene,” pages 59-61;
it can be viewed at the office of the Director-
General Medical services, Victoria Barracks, Melb.
....P. Bev. (Q.) : Buzacott’s, Brisbane. One, treadle-
operated, costing £l5 will grade 80-100 bushels
per day H.J.H.: “A House Is Built” (“The
Quartermaster” of the Bulletin) is now obtainable
in book form from most booksellers, price ss. 6d.
. ...F.G.: Mitchell Library, Macquarie-street, Sydney,
should be able to help you A.McC.: Write the
Emily McPherson School of Domestic Economy,
Russell-street, Melbourne M.E.H.: Write the
College of Arms, Queen Victoria-street, London,
E. ....C.D.: N.S.W. Education Dept. Regulation
335 provides that a teacher must hold a 3a classi-
fication for 12 years and obtain a 2b efficiency mark
before he can be considered eligible for increased
salary in terms of the regulation. The 2 b effi-
ciency mark is 48. The case under review does not
satisfy the provisions of the regulation M.W.: A
scale of minimum fees charged by NjS.W. architects
can be obtained from the Institute of Architects, 5
Elizabeth-street, Sydney W.F.P.: (1) Total and
permanent incapacity for all work. (2) If the person
mentioned is under the age qualification to receive
an old-age pension, an invalid pension could not be
granted, on account of not being totally and per-
manently incapacitated for all work M.J.: Lyster
Ormsby, Leigh House, 235 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
. ...C.F.P.: The N.S.W. Pastoral Employees Award
is still in force, but it does not cover a gardener or
groom whose work is confined to duties connected
with the homestead, for whom no award has been
made.. . .R.R.S.: The sun rises and sets at Mount
Margaret (Q.), .38 minutes later than at Brisbane.
.. . .I'.H.K.: Write to the Australia First League,
Anzac House, Collins-street, Melbourne... .C.W.J.H.:
(1) and (2) Colored head studies for covers are
purchased by illustrated periodicals, but the demand
is small and irregular. (3) Private firms fre-
quently advertise for showcard writers. Your best
plan would be to approach the studios that supply
such work.... A.G.: (1) “Line,” by Sullivan, “How
to Draw for the Papers,” by Browne; “Drawing
for Art Students and Illustrators,” by Seaby ; “Com-
mercial Art and Cartooning,” by Matthews; and
“Practical Cartooning for Profit,” by Farrow. (2)
Progress without tuition depends on application and
talent. .. .T.H.11.: Add a little less than a teaspoon
of salt to a cup of warm water. Use half the cup
to pour through the nostrils, and the other half
to gargle the throat. Repeat this treatment morning,
midday and evening. .. .E. 11.: No. It has been
partially successful on animals in Europe. While
it may rejuvenate a man sexually, it cannot give
him a new body and new arteries... .D.H.: If the
lines are due to age, leave them alone. Puffiness
under the eyes is sometimes due to kidney disease.
Consult a doctor... .J.S.: There is no conclusive
evidence that diet makes any difference. Get your
teeth and tonsils examined. .. .E.M.8.: H. W. Pres-
cott’s “Histc y of the Conquest of Mexico,” Louise
S. Hasbrouck’s “Mexico from Cortes to Carranza,”
and the works of Gomara, Helps, Kingsborough, Las
Casas, Sahagur, and Justin Winsor will be found
helpful.... 8.C.: Apparently you have failed to
exercise your legal rights to remove the buildings
within the prescribed time. Your best course would
be to see the Warden of the district or his clerk
and explain fully your position... .W.N.H.: (1)
The field in India, the Straits Settlements and
F. is very limited and an outsider would prob-
ably find it difficult to place himself. You could
make direct inquiry through the Attorney-General,
Singapore, as to opportunity and remuneration. (2)
G. Darling, 370 Little Collins-street; Dolamore and
Doig, 422 Little Collins-street; C. B. Norton, 20
Queen-street; or S. .T. Warnock, 84 William-street —
all Melbourne —will be able to advise C.C.: So
far as we can trace, there is no township in
N.S.W. called Irish Lords, nor is there any record
o ? any settlement of that name having existed....
It.A.W.: The small cracks are the result of con-
traction and expansion of a highly-polished surface,
possibly varnished, and nothing can be done to
remedy them by an amateur. An expert polisher
might be able to fix it R.T.H.: Send them to
E. Esdaile and Sons, 42 Hunter-street, Sydney....
W.J.T.: It was not compulsory to vote at the last
N.S.W. general election.... M.A.: Try Teachers’
Guild of N.S.W., 58 Margaret-street, Sydney....
11.8. C.: Visit a dentist and have your teeth over-
hauled. You may be suffering from gingivitis or
early pyorrhea. .. .C. 8.: Write to C. H. Bock and
Co., P.O. Box 1862; or Poppe, Schunkoff and
Guttery, P.O. Box 132—both of Capetown, S’Africa.
11.N.5.: Write to Comptroller of Customs, Suva,
Fiji W.C.: A billion in the British Empire is
written thus: 1,000,000,000,000 ; a trillion,
1,000,000,000,000,000,000. In the U.S.A. a thousand
million is called a billion, a million million a tril-
lion, and a million million million a quintrillion.. • ■
C.J.L.M. : The new edition 0 f Gibbon’s catalogue will
reach Australia early in November. A copy can be
obtained from any postage-stamp dealer. Price Bs.
6d W.K.: “The Australian and New Zealand
Writer*’ and Artists’ Year Book,” published by Cecil
Ringstad, Box 2876 N, G.P.0., Sydney (price
2s. 6d.), contains such information.... A.McN: Quite
sound.. . .R.R.C.: Not one of the best, and doesn’t
look as though it ever will be (Many others
mailed).


Outstanding Results
obtained with New
Bull-Dog Grip
Tube Repair Outfits
The actual tube and cover effectively
repaired with BulhDog Qrip by Mr.
\V. P. Hungerford. Note the extent
of the patch which he could not have
satisfactorily applied by any other
method.
m
m
ŵ
Illustrating the awkward predicament
described by Mr. Hungerford, from which
Bull Dog Qrip helped him to escape.
Qraphic Description
of a Remarkable
Roadside Repair
a l had an experience last Sunday which will go to prove
the outstanding qualities of Red Diamond Bull-Dog Grip-
Patches. I had occasion to go to a place called Mt. Cotton,
25 miles from here, and through heavy rain falling incessantly
all day the roads were very greasy. On taking a sharp bend
in the bush road I experienced a skid which pulled the rear
side back tyre completely off and pulled the valve out of its
seat tearing the tube about 1 inch. I also had a bad blow-out
(just on the turn of the tread); the hole in the tube was a
lagged one about 3 1 / 2 inches long and as 1 had no spare not
even a tube with me 1 had to repair (if possible) the one
damaged arid this is how I did it. First 1 put a Red Diamond
Patch around the valve seat and put the valve back in the
same hole and screwed it down. Then I put a Red Diamond
Patch 4 inches long by 3 inches wide on the blow-out in the
tube and a patch on the inside of the tyre to stop the tube
from protruding; pumped it up and finished the journey, and
returned home without further trouble. I have run some 87
miles around town since Sunday to show some of my friends
what can be done in an emergency providing one has the
ri«ht material to work with.’
Yours faithfully,
Cooparoo (Signed) W. P. HUNGERFORD
Sth. Brisbane, 25/4/29.
Only Perfect Repair Outfit includes
New PATENT GHENER
Leggett’s Bull-Dog Grip Self-vulcanising Outfit now
contains a special Roller-Roughener for making t e
perfect patch. The roughener is shaped to ensure the
thorough roughening required. An edge-wheel roller
enables the patch to be rolled firmly and free from air
bubbles so as to amalgamate positively with the rough-
ened rubber of the tube.
Ask your gp.rageman■ particularly for the new Bulk
Dog Grip (Laboratory) Outfit which details special
bonus offer .
“Made in Australia —
and the better for it ”
ẁ
Complete Bull-Dog Grip
(Laboratory) Outfit in
Metal Container com-
prises large sheet of Red
Patching Material,
Cement in tin, Scissors
and Roller Roughener.
Sells at
Other Sizes 9d., 1/-
2/3, 3/9 and 6/6
4/3
ẃ
ẅ
BULL-DOG GRIP
Self 'Vulcanising Outfit
LKrite tor BOOKLET on Car Depreciation rit worth to the makers , Leggett Products Pty. Ltd., Box 11 54, Sydney


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydneyl
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
WHEN ORDERING YOUR NEXT SUIT
ASK YOUR TAILOR TO SHOW YOU SAMPLES OF
VICARS’ MARRICKVILLE
High-Class Worsteds and Tweeds
Manufactured by—
JOHN VICARS & CO., LIMITED,
MARRICKVILLE, N.S.W.
Also Makers of the Famous “Marrickville” Travelling Rugs.
ALL PRODUCTS GUARANTEED PURE WOOL.
w
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
MORE PRIZES FOR FARMERS.
In order to encourage farmers to pass
on to others the fruits of their observa-
tion and experience, “The Bulletin” will
give three prizes for the most helpful
contributions during the six months to
Dec. 31 next.
Points will be awarded for every con-
tribution submitted, if thought worthy and
whether printed or not, and two prizes—
the first of £25 and the second of £lo—
be given to the winners of most
points.
A special prize of £5 will be given for
the best individual contribution.
Only contributions that are of practical
value to men on the land are asked for;
literary merit is not taken into account, so
long as the meaning is expressed plainly.
The prizes are in addition to the ordi-
nary payments made for all “Bulletin”
contributions.
*
FEEDS AND FEEDING.
“Jace” ; To determine kind and quantity of
food best ror cattle and horses is of the
utmost importance to farmers. A better under-
standing' of its composition, digestibility and
function and the meaning of a balanced
ration will lead to a more economical ration.
Food.——This may be defined as any mat-
erial which, when passing into the digestive
organs, is absorbed. Food may be ot plant
or animal origin. The green leaf of the
plant has the property of absorbing the
radiant energy of the sun, which it stores
up.
Use of Food. —The energy that an animal
collects from food is put to at least three
uses; (1) Maintenance of the body; (2)
reproduction; (3) storing up a reserve
supply. Most of the food eaten by the
animal is utilised by No. 1.
Composition of Food. —Different foods have
varying compositions; but for the sake of
convenience we recognise five groups: (1)
Water ; (2) ash (i.e., mineral compounds) ;
(3) protein (i.e., nitrogenous matter) ; (4)
carbohydrates; (5) fats. Each has a definite
function, and a balanced ration may be made
up from them. A deficiency of one of them
in the ration must be made up by the addi-
tion of another type of food containing it. Thus
bran is mixed with chaff to supply more pro-
tein in the ration of a horse. Water is
found in all foods —8-10 p.c. in the grains
of maize, wheat, hay, etc.; 85-90 p.c, in
silage, roots, etc. It takes the place to a
certain extent of the water an animal would
otherwise drink. Ash is present in all plant
foods. Maize contains 8 p.c. It is particu-
larly necessary for young animals, because
of their rapid growth of bones ; also for milch
cows _ and egg-producing hens. A deficiency
in this may be rectified by addition of com-
mon salt to the diet. Protein contains a
relatively large amount of nitrogen. Of the
three nutrients (carbohydrates, protein and
fats), protein is the most important, firstly
because all muscles, blood, connective tissue,
skin, hair and hoofs owe their formation to
it. It is relatively scarce in foods. Maize
contains 8 p.c. and cotton-seed meal 32 p.c.,
but these are exceptions. The tissues (mus-
cles, connective tissue, etc.) determine the
vigor and quality of ths animal, and for
young, developing animals an abundant sup-
ply is necessary. Protein is not so digestible
as other nutrients. It serves also as a
source of fat, fuel and energy. Carbohy-
drates are composed of carbon, hydrogen and
oxygen, and constitute most of the dry mat-
ter of a plant. They are more easily digested
than the other nutrients, and their function
is to maintain heat and produce fat. Fats
occur mostly in the seeds of plants—for
example, 2 p.q. in rye and 35 p.c. in flax-
seed. For a given weight, fat will produce
2J times as much heat energy as carbohy-
drates.
Digestibility of Foods. —Carbohydrates are,
as a rule, the most digestible of the various
food materials ; and fibre is the least diges-
tible. Between these lie proteins and fats,
the latter generally being more digestible
than the protein. If we crowd the consump-
tion of food, it is not so; thoroughly digested
as when fed in smaller lots; but one cannot
secure greater digestibility by limiting the
ration.
Maintenance Rations and Productive Ra-
tions. —A ration may be defined as the
quantity of food consumed by an animal
weighing 10001 b. in 24 hours. Rations may
be _ divided into two classes, maintenance
rations and productive rations. A mainten-
ance ration is one that supplies the needs
•of _ a resting animal 3 neither gaining nor
losing body weight. In this case food is
necessary to support life, repair waste
tissue, supply body heat and activity. Nine-
tenths of the maintenance ration may con
sist of carbohydrates. The food consumed
and digested in excess of that required for
body maintenance enables the animal to
produce—flesh, milk, etc. The food which
contains the nutrients in the right pro-
portions is called a balanced ration; and
balancing a ration requires a knowledge of
the composition and digestibility of various
common foods.
The Nutritive Ratio.. —This is the propor-
tion between digestible protein and the
digestible fats and carbohydrates. Multiply
digestible fat b.v 2J, and add to it. digestible
carbohydrate. Divide this sum by digestible
protein. For instance, maize is composed of
digestible protein, 7.8; carbohydrate, 66.8;
fat, 4.3; which means that for each pound
of digestible protein in corn there are 9.81 b.
of digestible carbohydrates and fats.
Computing Rations. —One must consider
the use to which the animal is put. For
example, a hard-working horse requires a
greater proportion of protein to fat and car-
bohydrate (i.e., a narrower ratio) than a
horse doing light work. The table below will
give an iidea of the nutritive ratios of differ-
ent animals under different conditions:—
Horse. —Condition of Animal. Nutritive Ratio.
Light work .. . . .. 1 : 7.0
Medium work. . .. .. 1 : 6.2
Heavy work.. .. .. 1 :6.0
Cow.—Yielding daily:
111 b. milk . . .. .. 1 : 6.7
16.61 b. milk .. .. 1 : 6.0
221 b. milk 1 : 5.7
27.01 b. milk .. .. .. 1 : 4.5
As production increases the nutritive ratio
becomes narrower, i.e-, a greater proportion
of protein is added to the ration.
The computation of the ration is a matter
of trial and error. One must be guided, too,
by the food-stuffs available and their cost.
COST OF FENCING.
“Yeoman”: In our page on 11/9/’29 I
estimated that the cost of a five-wired Cyclone
fence, with two barb-wires on top, car-
ried on concrete posts a chain apart and
four tee _ iron-droppers between, would be
£56 a mile. That included £6’ a mile for
labor in erecting. As the cost of pulling the
wires through the posts and straining them
up in the ordinary fence is about £3 a
mile alone, it may appear that my estimate
of £6 a mile for labor for a Cyclone type
is far too little. A new plain-wired sheep-
proof fence costs about Is. each for wooden
posts and 6d. each for iron droppers for
erecting by contract labor. With one post
and four droppers to the chain, the cost
would be £l2 per mile. But with the fabri-
cated fencing the saving in labor costs in
erection nearly covers the difference in
price between that of the Cyclone and the
equivalent in plain wires. And where con-
crete posts and iron droppers are used
(upon which my estimate was based) the
cost of boring as well as of drawing the
wires, through is saved.
In ordinary soil two men with a post-hole
auger can erect 81 concrete posts and
drive 320 iron droppers in a day. A mile
of Cyclone can be rolled out, strained, and
tied in two days, and the two barbs erected
in one day. That makes four days in all.
At 15s. per day each the cost is £6. If the
soil were too stony for a post-hole auger,
the cost would probably be an extra £2 per
mile. If wooden posts were used instead of
concrete the cost would be further increased
by reason of the labor of boring. The use
of five wooden posts to the chain would add
considerably to the labor of erection.
I had three and a half miles of Cyclone
fencing, with two barbs on top, erected by
day labor two years ago, and found that
type of fence a profitable investment. The
experience of other Land Page readers in
respect of Cyclone type fencing would be
interesting,
COMPRESSING YOUNG GRASS.
“C. J.H.”: British university agricultural
schools have definitely established the extra-
ordinary nutritive value of young grass artifi-
cially dried and compressed. Young grass
is rich in leaf, which contains more protein
than stem. Cocksfoot cut three times during
the growing season had 49.6 p.c. leaf; cut
17 times it showed so much as 81.3 p.c. of
leaf. The continual cutting kept the grass
in a state of perpetual youth, and the crop
maintained its leafiness during the next
season.
A comparison on a dry-matter basis with
average pasture and feeding-cake shows the
value of continued cutting. The young* grass
under question was cut 28 times during a
growing season of 28 weeks: —
Digestibility
of
Digestible Starch Organic
Protein. Equivalent. Matter.
Young grass . . 22 p.c. 74 p.c. 84 p.c.
Pasture. . .. 10 p.c. 4/5 p.c. 51 p.c.
Feeding-cake . . 19-27 p.c. 52-84 p.c. 52-80 p.c.
Two years’ experimenting with yields shows
that weekly cuts give a 50 p.c. greater yield
of digestible protein and enormous difference
in bulk, the young grass showing 38671 b.
per acre per season of dry-matter, as against
79901 b. of hay and aftermath. This should
give compressed young grass higher trans-
portability than hay, and would be of
greater use to ewes and lambs or dairy
cattle and baby beef, on account of its
greater digestibility.
Various methods of drying by artificial
means have been tried; and, although per-
fection has not been reached in this line,
there is reason to hope that something cheap
and efficient will soon be evolved.
The value of such fodder in Australia
would vary considerably. With a drought
on it would be enormous, both on account
of higher transportability and nutritive
quality. It can be pressed into bales
(75-90 c.-ft. per ton), or cakes (45-55 c.-ft.
per ton),;or formed into nuts with molasses
as a binder (60-90 c.-ft. per ton), or as
briquettes for storage or transport (30
c.-ft. per ton). On figures thus far
available, these forms of fodder would cost
considerably less than many of the. present-
day stock foods. And what’s:-to stop the
growing and drying of the young grass in
the drought areas themselves? During floods
there’s more water goes to waste than would
be used on thousands of acres of irrigated
pastures.
FEEDING YOUNG GRASS.
. “Curlew” : A good deal of attention is being-
given in Europe to the use of grass ; before
it has attained more than five or six inches
of growth. It is found to bo more nutritious
at that stage; it contains much less fibre
than when more mature, and consequently is
easier of digestion ; and it will give greater
yields, as by preventing it from going* to
seed we prolong its growing period.
In Germany, considerable attention is
being turned to grazing dairy cows on small
plots and giving them frequent changes. By
this means the cows are kept- at ; pdaik pro-
duction. Where they are held for fairly long-
periods on the same pasture they give a
flush of milk on being first turned in. but
this steadily diminishes. It has been found
that by dividing pastures into small plots,
so that they may be used up in a few
days, and then moving to fresh ones, produc-
tion is kept at a high pitch. Stock feed
hungrily on a fresh pasture, but after a
time lose their appetite for it as it becomes
soiled. In the experiments which gave the
best results the plots were of such a size as
to carry six cows to the acre, and the ani-
mals were kept on a plot only four days.
Manuring with complete manures was carried
out, and it was found that nitrogenous
manures make for heavy milk yields; up to
"1051 b. nitrogen per acre was used annually
Nitrogen when increased for 81b. (401 b. of
sulphate of ammonia) to 401 b. (2001 b. sul-
phate of ammonia) per acre increased the
milk . yield ' enormously, so that while the
nitrogenous manure cost 40 marks, the in-
creased yield of milk was worth 228 marks
per acre.
FALLOWING MALLEE LAND.
“Niwluk” : “Mallee Voice’s” assertion (B.
18/9/’29) that a 12-furrow skim plough is
the best implement for fallowing Mallee
land is open to question. What in our part of
the Mallee we call skim ploughs require, on
an average, one horse per furrow; “Mallee
Voice’s” plough must be very light to be
worked with seven horses.
With a wide implement, such as the 12-
furrow, when one or more of the wheels
run over a stump (and stumps are usually
many) a certain amount of ground is missed;
the wider the implement the more ground is
missed at a time. This naturally makes
for uneven working.
Further, such light implements as skim
ploughs are not constructed - of as solid
material as the heavier fallowing ploughs;
consequently they are more easily strained
by contact with the stumps. They therefore
require frequent resetting through the feet
and arms getting out of alignment.
For these reasons I would say that the
six-furrow mould-board fallowing plough is
a more suitable implement for this work in
the Mallee.
TAPIOCA MEAL FOR PIGS.
“Hatter” : Tapioca, cassava or manioc is
produced from the roots of the two plants,
bitter and sweet cassava. The former contains
a poisonous juice, which must be pressed out
before the root is used. The roots may be.
ground whole or after the rind has been
removed, or the rind may be ground separ-
a Txr! or : le mc ' be partially screened.
What is known in England as B quality
(meal ground after the rind has been re-
moved) was recently tested as a substitute
tor maize in fattening pigs, since both meals
are rich in carbohydrates. Two pens of
eight pigs each were used. One was fed
on a ration including 25 p.c. maize-meal and
the other 25 p.c. tapioca-meal. The balance
ot the f.eed was identical, and consisted of
barley-meal, pollard, soya-bean meal and
minerals. The result proved that the tapioca
was in every respect equal or superior to
maize, and the cost worked out at id. less
per lb. of’ live weight. The tapioca-fed pigs
showed a slight increase in weight; the fat
was satisfactory, and of a better color than
that of the maize-fed pigs; and the cured
bacon was judged of better quality, though
the hams were about equal.
Experiments carried out at Hawaii and
the Philippines with cassava-meal ground
from whole roots, including the rind, gave
similar results, though care Had to be taken
lest too much earthy matter was included. In
Sweden and Denmark the refuse obtained in
the manufacture of starch (manioc-bran)
gave equally favorable' results • in fact, a
good sample containing 70-75 pic. starch was
considered fully equal to barley-meal. It
was, however, found inadvisable to feed
tapioca at the rate of more than 25-30 p.c.
of the whole ration. There was never any
trouble as regards palatability, though owing
to the dusty nature of the meal it was some-
what unpleasant to handle.
Cassava is well suited to the climate of
Northern Australia; and it would be interest-
ing to learn how the cost of production
compares there with that of maize.
HANDLING THE YOUNG FARM-
HORSE.
“Fred A.” : A colt or filly that is worth
the breeding and feeding is surely worth the
time and patience necessary, to transform it
into a useful member of the farm community.
Don’t catch the youngster in a crush ; do
it in the open yard. Use a long, light stick
to induce the pupil to face the master, by
gentle tapping on the rump whenever that
part is turned towards you. So you will
see your horse turn to you when you enter
the yard, instead of presenting a tail-view.
Let a gradual establishment of confidence
underlie your efforts at getting the halter
on. This period is most important in shaping
the after-disposition of the youngster. A
couple of hours is not too long to spend in
this direction.
When you have put the strongest halter
you can find on the horse, tie him to the
stoutest post in the yard and leave him
for a couple of hours. Don’t belt him over
the head with a bag, etc. (as many do), in
an effort to assure him of the futility of
back-pulling. Many a good horse has sus-
tained a strained neck and got nerves through
this fool-trick. He will find out for him-
self all there is to be known about back-
pulling if you leave him tethered for a couple
of hours. Don’t fight him to get the bit in
his mouth. Slip a couple of fingers behind
his incisors; he may like it and will soon
relax his jaws. An old bit with tee-pieces
is the best. Leave it in all night as a first
step towards “mouthing.”
Catch the youngster again in the morning
in the same manner and begin tbe “leading”
lesson by bending about 12ft. of line on to
the end of your halter-lead. Make a large
loop in this by bending the end back towards
the horse’s head; then gradually slip tbe
loop over the rump, holding the bight of
the line in your left hand. When you pull
on this bight your pressure should be evenly
distributed between the hindquarters and the
head, pushing in the former and pulling in
the latter. If this is done judiciously, you
can teach the most stubborn of youngsters
to lead in ten minutes. See that the loop is
not large enough to permit of its slipping
down to the hocks.
Apply cold water to the shoulders before
putting into draught. Don’t use chains when
first teaching to pull. The risk of a tangle
and consequent kicking-match is great. Use
rope or leather. Long hames on a collar are
also undesirable, as they can too easily foul
the reins and rob you of control.
When in early harness, put your kicking
strap or rope well back on the rump, thus
avoiding risk of spinal injury to the frac-
tious young pig-rooter. ,
IS CULTIVATION BEST FOR
ORCHARDS?
“Specker”: A few years ago this question
was considered finally settled, but conditions
change and practices must be adjusted to
suit. There is_ no doubt that young trees
require cultivation, but the position is not
so clear as regards orchards in full bearing.
It was formerly argued that cultivation con-
served moisture and kept down harmful
weeds, but the more recent view is that the
most valuable result of cultivation is the
liberation of nitrates and that the weeds do
little harm to the trees.
(Continued on page 32.)


THE SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER
m
m
111
m
if
QUICK HARVESTING cuts down
the period of crop insurance;
reduces loss of grain from shed-
ding; makes the harvest season
short, sharp, and therefore more
economical.
*
W 2
IS
12ft. CUT. SELF-PROPELLED.
HARVESTS FORTY ACRES OF CROP
IN A DAY.
CONSUMES ONLY HALF A GALLON
OF PETROL TO THE ACRE.
'■>
mms
M\
STORM FLATTENED AND TANGLED
CROPS ARE SUCCESSFULLY
HARVESTED BY THE
SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER.
also crops infested with thistles.
NO OTHER MACHINE CAN EQUAL
ITS PERFORMANCE.
m
ms
m
m
TWO MEN ONLY REQUIRED
on the Auto Header one to
drive and one to tend the
bagging. Labor is the most
expensive item in harvest costs.
This machine reduces it to a
minimum.
-
m
m
met
.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
H. V. McKAY PTY.,
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE,
LTD.
AUSTRALIA.
BRANCHES: _ .
664 Bourke Street West, Melbourne. 27-39 George Perth.
95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide. Cr. Murray and Ring Streets,
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS: .
H. V. McKAY (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
Catalogue, Price and Terms posted jree on request.
M
*A
oa*
it is the testimony of not one but thousands of one-time suftereirs
which enables us to state that if you wil commence a course with a
straightforward remedy, De Witt s Kidney and Bladder P.lls
vou will start again on the road to health. Under guarantee, we say
fhatTf you wm test this 40-year-old remedy, in 24 hours you w.ll
see results.
Read this letter, just one of thousands
get up 1 better, fresher at five in the morning without pain, I blame myself for not
taking ‘De Witt's’ before."
Why hesitate longer when such a wonderful offer of health is placed before
yoS Why forego the pleasures of life? Why continue in constant nerve-
destroying pain? Why be weak and ailing, when you can, just by visiting
your nearest chemist, start once again building up full vim, vigor and vUality?
Kidney Trouble Causes Your Weakness
up n n ni n nriuirny UAC POfiaiHUT
THIS FAMOUS FORTY-YEAR-OLD REMEDY HAS BROUGHT
HEALTH TO THOUSANDS—IT WILL SURELY BENEFIT YOU
If you are run-down, feeling worn-out, hating work, and with no zest .or
pleasure, your strength just “giving out,” back aching,complexion sal ow or
spotted; if you are having bad nights, it is practically certain that kidney
trouble is poisoning your system.
You may call your trouble rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, chronic backache,
but it is no less certain that the kidneys are at the seat of all your ill-health.
Your chemist knows how good this is
Do you know thousands of men and women have found that by
taking a course of treatment with De Witt’s Pills, they have enjoyec
a new lease of life? Women once crippled with pain, bed-ridden
tell you that thanks to this simple inexpensive remedy they nov
enjoy splendid vigor and vitality. Men old before their time hav<
regained new strength. This remedy, which sells by millions o
bottles the world over, acts directly on the kidneys so that the]
purify the blood of all pain-giving poisons. Invaluable, too, in al
cases of Bladder Trouble. Why not ask your chemist about D
Witt’s Pills. He will tell you all about the splendid prescriptio
printed on the box, and why, if you purchase a 3/6 or 6/6 supply
you will surely be on the road to splendid health.
For your own health’s sake do not accept any substitute fo
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
E
P
kidney
AND
BLADDER
w
REMEDY WITH THE GUARANTEE TO PROVE RESULTS.
THE


7
ŵ
CTYLE that has no c
*0 is the essence of oi
without that hints at the
provided within . . . st)
me suggests soaring sp
power . . . these are the 1
grace Oakland, The Cosm
And, matching this supe
matchless beauty . . . is {
. . . surging power . . . f
velvet smoothness . . . s:
highest speeds . . . drivn
luxury.
■MI
i
O A
► ► ► THE
ui
4 S HOp'l ?•• ' $S#
HB«inisi. ss£j&£.
sgBggg&|M ■ §Mwm
mmmM
-
■lyi:Ul 1
a &i
; - : :V
m
ftii
A. ■* *
mm
mm
mmmmmm
m®m
HR R
SR <we -. * *-*
4 :A V*d*3 «I "|>« ‘ f ,
aOMKI
. • ySHSBKK •; %'.
' &m'X. : t& 1 ms 3 oi£i§i A s


and
o morrow
Vterpart . . . that
Quality . . . style
tidiness and luxury
$ which in every
ecd and abundant
ciaiactenstics which
lopolitan Six.
srb style . . . this
glorious performance
dashing pick-up . . .
ilence unbroken at
ng ease and riding
Truly it may be said that Oakland is
styled for to-day and to-morrow . . . in
beauty ... in luxury . . . in brilliant
performance.
Go to your nearest dealer . . . see the
Cosmopolitan Six . . . drive it and be
convinced.
PRICES FROM £4lO
Prices given subject to change without notice
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR :: BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER
Convenient payments can be arranged on the liberal G.M.A.C. Terms Plan
SERVICE EVERYWHERE
GENERAL MOTORS (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
Metropolitan Distributors:
Brisbane : Moreton Motors Ltd. Sydney : John McGrath Ltd.
Melbourne : Southern Motors Pty. Ltd. Adelaide: Millingens Ltd.
Perth : Skipper Bailey Motor Co. Ltd. (Milligan Street Division)
COSMOPOLITAN
„
I
M
Ml
I
■
■
1
to
V ' '■
ife. .
.
J mu
■


ẁ
A flexible and easy-
fitting shoe
Lightness and long - wearing
qualities are combined in this
clean-cut Abbey Shoe by careful
selection of the toughest sole
leather—and by shaping the
upper to avoid strain at any
point. It sweeps low at back of
ankle—fitting more comfortably
and closely. It arches over the
instep in a natural curve that
eliminates tightness at the lacing.
In patent leather this is an ideal
style for semi-formal evening
wear.
Order by post.
Three fittings—narrow, medium
and wide—are available in full
and half sizes. Specify width
needed and order, also, a supply
of the correct Abbey Preserva-
tive Polish (6d. per tin).
PATENT LEATHER . . . 50/-
TAN WILLOW CALF . . 427-
BLACK BOX CALF 39/6
Enlarged catalogue of men’s and women’s
footwear post free.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George Street & 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPL 145
ẃ
X
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
ẅ
Second-hand Saddles
A
mssm
We have a few
GOOD SEC-
ON D - HAND
and shop-soiled
SADDLES for
sale. So here’s
your chance while they last,
which won’t be long.
SNAP No. I—3 slightly-
used Poley Saddles, as
photograph, in perfect con-
dition ; fully mounted.
Worth £lO, for £6/157-
SNAP No. 2—4 shop-soiled
Poley Saddles, good shape,
in perfect order ; with stir-
nips, leathers and girth. Worth
£6/10/-, lor £4/15/-
SNAP No. 3 —6 British Military-
Saddles, unbreakable steel arch
tree, fitted up complete. Worth
£7, for £4/17/6
BUY NOW AT BARGAIN TIME.
JOHN BRUSH,
The, Saddle Specialist,
BRISBANE, Q.: 434 Queen Street.
‘ SYDNEY, N.S.W.: 371 George Street.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
Jlegfeier
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL, ■
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
ouote you price for the original.
THE
SHAVE
ORCHARD
PLOUGH
is similar in all respects to the
Standard Shave Plough, but with
the discs close up to facilitate
ploughing close to the trees and
with a pivot pole to enable
plough to be pulled close in if
branches are too low to allow
passage of horses.
For full particulars apply to the
manufacturers or any agent.
Inter-State and Overseas Agents:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd.
Miller’s Point, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
W. Y. Scrutton,
34 North Terrace West, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND:
Clark & Fauset,
Eagle Street, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
H. J. Wigmore, Ltd.,
Wellington Street, Perth.
TASMANIA:
W. Hart & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
Charles Street, Launceston.
J. H. Stutterd,
Wynyard.
H. G. Buchanan,
10 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND:
M. Steinberg,
Box 893, Wellington.
SOUTH AFRICA:
Mangold Bros., Ltd.,
Port Elizabeth.
Manufactured by
D.SW. CHANDLER LTD.
Brunswick Street,
FITZROY,
VICTORIA.
To liberate nitrates to the best advantage
for bud development and the set of fruit,
cultivation should be finished at least three
weeks before the trees bloom. Unless it can
be done by that time, it is questionable
whether it is any benefit at all. The
increased cost of cultivation and better
knowledge of the factors involved, together
with the reduced price of nitrates, have
caused a steadily increasing proportion of
American orchardists to switch over from
ploughed land to sod. Lucerne and sweet
clover are established among the trees, which
they supply with nitrogen, and it is stated
that orchards that have been in lucerne sod
for over four years produce as well as those
under cultivation, and, furthermore, that
there is a marked improvement in the color
of the fruit. The lucerjne is usually cut
twice a year and left on the ground as a
mulch.
If the orchard is not under a leguminous
crop, commercial nitrates are necessary; but
on good land lucerne or clover might, pro-
bably provide an adequate supply. Many
applications of nitrates are wasted, while
others give striking results. Sandy soils
usually respond best, but it must be a
matter for individual experiment.
Sod facilitates spraying operations and
saves cost in equipment and labor; but per-
haps its greatest advantage lies in reducing
labor at the rush time. On the other hand
there is more danger from fire and more
harborage for mice.
POTATOES AND SOIL ANALYSIS.
“Chemico” : While soil.analysis is the only
scientific basis on which to commence a
study of the effects of fertilisers, the farmer
needs to be told that soil analyses aren’t
conclusive and infallible and that the chem-
istry of the soil is a field that is as yet only
half explored.
A case in point is provided by the potato
manurial trials of the Vic. Agriculture Dept.
These for the last three seasons have been
carried out on a farm at Musk, where the
soil, a volcanic brown loam of good texture
and quality, shows on analysis, to quote
J. T. Ramsay, the State’s potato expert,
“abundant content of all the essentials
of fertility.” But this ideal soil responded
in a most remarkable manner to manurial
treatment. A control-plot, untreated, pro-
duced 3Hcwt. potatoes to the acre. Three
cwt. of basic phosphate to the acre increased
the yield to 50|cw't.; 2cwt. super, gave
50-icwt.; 3ewt. super, gave 574 cwt. ; 3cwt.
super in one case and 3cwt. of garden manure
in another gave yields of 64|cwt.; 6cwt. of
super, and lcwt. of ammonium sulphate,
applied to two plots, gave in each instance
fffffcwt., and 3cwt. super, and lcwt. ammo-
nium sulphate gave 68^cwt.
The results would have been better all
round but for an attack of green aphis, hut
as this affected all plots equally the com-
parative value of the results is not impaired.
Of special interest are the remarkable in-
creases _in yield induced by the use of
ammonium sulphate in conjunction with
super. The soil by analysis, like most Aus-
tralian soils, is amply supplied with nitro-
genous constituents. Yet the addition of
more grows more spuds. It may be added
that in the case of the maximum yield,
68£cwt., an expenditure at the rate of 355.
6d. per acre on manure paid a dividend of
£lB in increased production, a return of
3014 per cent.
BLUE MOULD IN TOBACCO.
_ Blue mould, which has been causing con-
siderable loss to tobacco-growers in N. S.
Wales, Vic. and Queensland, has been the
subject of an investigation under the auspices
of the Research Council. It has been estab-
lished that the disease is infectious, and
that Australian-grown seed is more liable co
infection than that imported from Canada.
It is believed that infection in the first
instance may be air-borne from wild hosts,
but exactly how the disease is carried by the
seed has not been established.
Seed from some Australian sources produces
infected seedlings from which disease spreads
rapidly. Experiments are still in progress,
but in the meantime it is suggested that
growers, to insure against a lack of healthy
seedlings sufficient for their needs, should,
sow a reserve seed-bed with North American
seed, or, failing this, with seed from farms
in disease-free districts. No seed should be
planted from fields in which blue mould
appeared last season. The reserve seed bed
should be planted some distance from those
sown to ordinary Australian seed, to guard
against air-borne infection, and, as a pre-
caution against soil-borne infection, new
ground, or soil that tobacco has not pre-
viously been grown in, should be used for the
reserve plot.
CATTLE CHOKING.
“Kirk”: It happens oftenest when they
are being fed on root crops. First secure
the head with muzzle pointing upwards; a
rope or halter over head and horns, puffed
over a beam, with a hurdle holding the beast
against a fence or waff is usually effective.
Then locate the obstruction, if possible.
Gag the animal with a riifg;, if one is not
available a stirrup-iron will answer the pur-
pose. You can-theri?insert/your hand and
arm a fair way unto’the throat and possibly
may be able* to/get hold -of and withdraw
the offending substance. If you cannot dis-
lodge it by hand, a piece of bent wire (like
a wire for stretching rabbit-skins) may
sometimes be passed over the root and used
effectively. If the obstruction is too far down
the gullet for this, and it is necessary to
push it down to tbe stomach, a hose, with
a _ bit of willow or such like inside to
stiffen it, the end well protected and oiled,
may be used. If these methods fail, it’s a
matter for the vet., as in extreme cases it is
necessary to perform tracheotomy to prevent
suffocation.
Sometimes a cow will choke through,
greedily eating dry chaff or similar food, but
she usually manages to get, rid of it without
treatment. But if she wants help, a pint of
linseed oil will usually lubricate it suffici-
ently.
Give an animal which has choked a dose
of oil to soothe the gullet, and feed on moist
stuff for a day or so.
FITTING AN AXE HANDLE.
“Pekoe”: In the process of clearing at
least two axes should be employed—one.
a razor-like edge for work above ground and
one not quite so keen for grubbing. Root-
chopping is fatal to a keen edge. A pocket
carborundum stone should be kept handy and
used frequently to keep edges effective. Tak-
ing these precautions a man will feel much
fresher at the day’s end, and his arms will
not be jarred numb.
Many fall down on the task of fitting a
new axe handle and are always handicapped
by loose heads. Get the old handle out by
boring several half-inch auger holes through
the eye. This loosens it. Then drive it out
with a broad punch made of an old axe
handle. Never burn a handle out, as heat
ruins the temper of the steel. Having got
all the handle out, round off with a saw-
file the edges of each side of the eye. This
not only removes burrs of steel from the
hole, but helps to compress the new handle
and tighten it as you drive it in. Never
hit the axehead with a hammer or with
another axe. Use only a short billet of hard-
wood. Rasp off where the steel marks the
handle until you have got the head far enough
on. You will find that, as a rule, the handle
pokes through about L|in. when this
is done. Saw that much off; also saw
the wedge slot the same distance deeper.
Make some good wedges of old axe-
handle, about 2in. long by ljin. thick,
tapering to one-sixteenth thick. Drive these
into the saw-cut. When nearly home saw
them off lin. from the head and drive them
again. _ Never use anything but wooden
wedges in your axe. Nails, screws or iron
wedges are no good and make it difficult to
get the old handle out.
The handle, as a rule, has a sharp end
when it comes from the store. Saw it off
about one inch from the tip and round off
the corners. One may hit himself in tender
places with a sharp handle and do some
damage.
When driving the handle in hold the axe
suspended in one hand and drive on the flat
end you have made. The handle must not
be bruised or marked in the fitting, as a
rough or splintery handle will slow up the
Dob.
New handles should be selected carefully
from the storekeeper’s stack. The grain
should be straight and close and free from
knots.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Muscles”: “Wrash’s” idea (B. 18/9/’29)
of man-handling calves for branding is a
good one if the calves are poddy-reared;
but the individual who man-handles breeders’
calves is qualifying for a bed in the local
hospital, especially if the calves are up to
12 months old. For a gentleman’s life give
me the branding-frame; it is by far the
best, especially if frame and crush are cor-
rectly constructed.
“Lily-Beale”: If a working horse suffers
from a bruised get the animal under
shelter and apply hot bran poultices, with
lysol or other disinfectant added (a teaspoon
to. the pint of water). The hot bran will
relieve the pain, and if there’s pus will
bring matters to a head. Don’t rub the leg
with embrocation. But a pint of raw lin-
seed oil, given as a drench; is helpful.
“Boronia”: “Specker” (B. 28/8/’29)
might have concluded his excellent remarks
on the cross pollination of fruit trees by
definitely advising intending planters of new
orchards to plant inter-pollinating varieties
of apple-trees in rows of not more than
three. This method will have the desired
effect, and, furthermore, will save much time
in picking. In rush periods isolated trees
are a time-wasting nuisance.
“Wrash”: Here is a certain plan for
poisoning dingoes. Lead to their haunts a
worn-out horse or diseased cow that has to
be destroyed. Cut the derelict’s jugular,
and as the blood flows trickle into it from
the point of a pen-knife blade a trail of
strychnine. No self-respecting dingo resists
the chance to lap at fresh blood, and, if
carefully done, there will be no scent of
human hands to warn him of danger. A
settler in the Jingeras (N.S.W.) thus once
secured 15 dingoes in a night.
“Bill R.” : Usually due to defective shoe-
ing, corns under a horse’s hoof cause lame-
ness and incapacitate the animal. When a
limp develops knock the shoe off, and look
for a powdery white lump underneath. Its
presence indicates a corn. Turn the prad
afield in a soft paddock for six weeks with-
out shoes ; if that’s impracticable, cut out the
corn and burn a thimbleful of turpentine in
the hollow. Then replace the shoe, with a
soft leather pad underneath.
“Hatter”: The following results (bushels
per acre) were obtained at Rotliamsted
(Eng.) in adjoining plots of similar land,
other conditions also being equal:—
After green manuring with vetches .. .. 36.25
After green manuring with crimson clover .. 28.5
After green manuring with mustard .. 25.8
After green manuring with rape .. .. 22.0
No green crop .. .. .. .. .. 17.5
The soil was fairly heavy—on sandy
ground it was found that mustard gave bet-
ter results than rape. The Ohio station
(U.S.A.), experimenting on similar lines,
states that ploughing under sweet clover
increased the yield of wheat by nearly one
“Gazer”: Recently in our south-western
part of N. S. Wales a deal of stock has been
poisoned, and baits are blamed. No doubt
some cases are due to this, but not all. At
certain seasons of the year, notably early
autumn and spring, anthrax germs are
specially virulent, and produce fatal results
in sheep and cattle. Fatalities just now
ought therefore to be suspected, and a
thorough examination made by competent
authority. Meanwhile, all poison-bait layers
should be gaoled indefinitely.
“Elgar”: Aren’t we working on wrong
lines in our combat witli pests? Thirty
yeai’s ago spraying of fruit-trees was almost
unknown. It began with the eodlin-moth,
and was progressively employed for other
pests until to-day the orchardist spends a
quarter of his time and income on sprays,
etc. Now the market-gardener is beginning
the same racket. Where is it going to end?
Instead of attacking the cause of the dis-
ease, the pest, why not attack the cause of
the pest? Nobody needs to spray for blight
in apples, because all apples are grafted on
blight-proof stock.


w
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales Harden & Johnston, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria . Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane
South Australia . . .
Western Australia .
Tasmania
. Waymouth Motor Company, Ltd., Adelaide
. . . Winterbottom Motor Company, Ltd., Perth
Co-operative Motors, Ltd., Hobart


KpL-Rgg™
Th Dog food i
Supreme
f \
A perfectly balanced meat ration; keeps
all breeds of dogs in perfect condition.
Composed of clean, wholesome red meat,
oatmeal, fresh onions and cod liver
oil in exactly Jhe right proportions.
FREE —Sample Tin sent on request
without charge.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB
P. O. Box 1821, Melbourne
Ken-T - Ration
ŵ
Promptness—The first essential of Assurance.
P. & C. take pride in acting quickly. Every claim has immediate
attention. This is only one of the many advantages that com-
mend P. &C. Assurance to the man on the land. Policies car-
ried on during times of stress—money set aside each year for loans to
members. P. &C. is linked up with the most influential Co-operative
bodies, and clients' interests are closely guarded. Here are plain
facts for commonsense men—P. &C. Assurance is the kind you need
—investigate the policies right away. Send for literature.
Chairman of Directors : Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director: H. Fell
c% PRODUCERS V CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD^
SB. 221-225 ELIZABETH STREET. SYDNEY. eg
MAN NEWS
“ Stanley”
Unbreakable
Flasks
Built entirely of Steel
—no Glass used in
construction. A
sound reliable invest-
ment for Country
Homes. They are
positively unbreak-
able. Mail to Desk
5.8.” to-day.
ẁ
PIKE
BROTHERS LTD.
BRISBANE
ẃ
SMOKE-OH!
“My policy' is not a three-card trick.”
— W. M. Hughes.
No; it looks more like a full hand of
clubs.
* *
In Divorce: Foote v. F'oote. Another bill
to Foote.
* *
In recent weeks thousands of electioneer-
ing arguments, put on the air, have gone
by the bored.
* *
“New markets for Australian tinned fruits are
badly wanted.” —Argus.
It seems that we can’t eat all we can.
* *
THE MENACING VOICES.
“The Arabs of Jerusalem are in a state of abject
terror as a result of mysterious voices from a cave
where, according to tradition, Abraham, Isaac and
Jacob were buried. Low moaning and wailing is
heard at sunset.” — Cable.
We are assured by Professor Gargle, of
Randwick, that there is nothing new in
this. The phenomenon occurs regularly in
Sydney at this time of year. The voices of
Abraham, Isaac and Jacob attain a very high
pitch several hours before sunset on certain
days, and the low moaning and wailing
occur later. Professor Gargle hastens to
explain that the moaning and wailing do
not emanate from either Abraham, Isaac or
Jacob.
PROOF OF IT.
MRS. X.: “Tired? Of course I’m tired! I’ve had
my nose to the grindstone all day!”
MR. X.: “My dear, I don’t believe you! There isn’t a scrap of
powder off it.”
Boring fellows, dentists. They’d get on
anybody’s nerves.
“The strong-chinned man is not always financially
successful. Where the weak-chinned man saves, his
strong-chinned brother often seeks the expensive
pleasures of life.”
It’s the old story—-the wages of chin is
debt.
“I have no statement to make to-night.” W. M.
Hughes.
However, with skilled medical attention,
he should be back to normal before long.
¥ #
THE PARADOXICAL DIVA.
“Invariably an operatic artist, pampered by her
public, develops expensive tastes.”
Costly her tastes —for cars and furs
And precious jewels she may long ;
And yet, for all such fads of hers,
I’ve seen her going for a song.
H.
* #
SPRING FANCIES.
By means of dynamite odds .bookies soon
explode punters’ hopes of making fortunes.
After a day’s racing many a man realises
that the only nag he can rely on is his wafers.
Not till the favorite finishes down the
course do we realise the meaning of the
term “ a dead certainty.”
Wise is he who having been given a winner
makes a note of it.
Pekcy Pawnticket.
* *
“Mr. Hughes would wreck Australia itself to
sustain his failure. The pity of it!” —S. M. Herald.
The Little grave-Digger.
V- *
Dear Bulletin, —I am prepared to lay
£IOOO to a dozen election eggs on the success
next Saturday of the politician who has not
said :
“Drawing a red herring over the track.”
“Throwing arbitration on the scrapheap.”
“The liberties of the people must be defended.”
“The root of the trouble is.”
“On the verge of a financial cataclysm.”
“The sovereign people’s Day of Power.”
“The vast resources of this great and glorious
country.”
“The privileges for which our soldiers fought and
died.”
The explanation of my recklessness is that
there is no such politician.—Youfs, Hamer.
ŵ
“He staggered along the street like a ship in
distress.’’
And, to pursue the simile, was duly put
in the dock.
* #
“Her hose cost £IBSO to build.” —StrN.
And probably developed a ladder the first
time she wore it.
POPULARITY OF THE WONG.
“The wong was received with loud applause and
an encore demanded.” —Sydney News.
It represents another U.S.A. triumph.
The wong is a composition in the syncopo-
oratorio style, which, according to the laws
of Ohio (U.S.A.), can only be played in
Australia on Wurhtzers by specially-imported
Americans. Like the flat-iron, it can be used
for purposes of offence. Mr. Walter Marks
drove hundreds of German music-lovers into
the English Channel in 1917 by playing
wongs to them on his submarine harmonium.
* *
Suggested slogan for patriotic moths:
Eat More Wool.
SONG OF THE COMPLETELY FED-UP.
(With acknowledgments to Henry Lawson.)
Oh. I’m tired — dog-tired—of their blither
and bosh. Yes, I’m tired of the whole
darned crew;
And I don’t care a hoot who gets the boot
or what anyone means to do.
I'm fed right up with the noisy crowd who
yap their political views,
And I’m utterly side of the columns of tripe
they devote to Bruce and Hughes!
I hate like hell the frauds who yell that to
me they will be true;
And it gives me a pain when they roar in
the rain of the measures that they’ve
put through.
They can snarl at each other like jungle
beasts; they can howl till they lift- the
skies,
If they lose, or score, I know once more I’ll
be taxed to the blanky eyes!
D. McM.
HIGH COST OF HITCHING.
I read the sage’s counsel: -
“Hitch your waggon to a star.
As I didn’t have a waggon
I hitched a motor-car.-
The star ran through my money,
So I lost the car as well.
I think I’ll hitch my next one
To some hunible hattet helle.
MEPHISTO.
SAYING THE LANGUAGE.
“In Sydney District Court counsel used the ex-
pression, ‘the whole thing is a frame-up,’ and was
taken to task bv Judge Curlewis. ‘1 have no idea,
said his Honor, ‘what you mean. Please speak
good English. I object to being addressed m the
language of the criminal classes of the New York
Bowery.’ Counsel apologised.”—S. M. Herald.
It recalls the triumph of that sturdy
defender of English undefiled, Lord Justice
Finick, over the malapert junior, Jones, who,
having visited the American colonies, thought
to flaunt his newly-acquired expressions in
the face of the Court of Common Pleas
itself.
The Puisne, Sir
Despencer le
Narkke, describes
the episode in his
“Institutes.”
When Master
Jones rose the Lord
Justice cried
loudly: “The Court
cannot see you,
Messer Jones.”
Jones : “But,
m’lud”
Finick (his eyes
on counsel’s bull-
no s e d brown
boots) : “But the
King his Court no
‘buts,’ sirrah! It
cannot see you.”
Master Jones
thereupon withdrew
and changed his
American hoots for
English ones, and
the trial proceeded.
Jones: “May it
please y’r ludship.
Blinkiron v. Duke
Harold of the Bogs.
I appear, m’lud, for
Blinkiron, a farm-hand, whom his Grace
brutally kicked.”
Finick : “How now! Farm-hand ! Farm-
hand ! I’d have ye know, sirrah, that whiles
ye are in the King his Court, ye shall
speak the King his English. Plaintiff is.
in our plain island tongue, no farm-hand
(which is a Plantation vulgarism), but a
villein regardant”
Jones : “Pardon, m’lud. The villein regar-
dant, Blinkiron, was brutally kicked by his
Grace, and his spirits”
Finick (with rising passion) : “Meseoms,
Messer Jones, that you would ape the vaga-
bond illiterate Will Shakspeare with your un-
English modernisms. Ha’ done! We know
no such word as ‘spirits’ here. In our
courts ye shall say ‘sprights,’ or, by God
His holy Teeth, there be those shall make
you rue it. Wot ye not the good English
lines which my Lord Chief Justice Dyer
was wont to shout to his virginals withal?
For publique good when care had cloid his mind
The only joye, for to repose his sprights,
Was musique sweet.”
Jones : “The villein regardant was kicked
by his Grace, and his sprights considerably
dampened, and then, forsooth” _
Finick : “ ‘Forsooth’! What criminal mis-
use of the language have we here! Doth not
our simple mother tongue suffice ye, Messer
Jones? Were ye not taught at Oxenford
those faerie-sweet English lines :
Swlk on ne seygh they never, non
All it was whyt of huel-bon.
Ond her loof, ond her wyndas,
Off assure forsothe it was,”
Jones (dashing down papers) : “I’m
through, nvlucl. I throw up my brief. The
"STONE MAD.”
ẁ
J.B.D.
IN 1969.
I hardly recognised my native city as I
walked down the gangway of the air liner
after an absence of 40 years.
“Why the decorations?” I inquired of a
patron of one of the numerous Free (Gov-
ernment! Drink bars.
“Spare me days!” was the answer. “Didn’t
y’know this was Billy H'ughes’s Anniver-
sary ? ...
“Yairs, he grabbed the Dictatorship in
1929. I wuz there. It wuz at a Diggers’
re-union.
“ ‘Boys!’ cries Billy suddint-like. yer
gettin’ a crook deal. Wy don’t yer take ’old
o’ things and put ther country on an Army
basis fer a coupler years!’ Within 24 hours
we’d done it. Billy said ’e’d be General, as
the thing wuz ’is idea.
“First thing ’e did was ter borrow
£100,000,000 an’ start a noo capital on the
shores of Lake McDonald in Central Aus-
tralia. That ’elped ter scatter the money
over the country er bit. ’E got Walter
Marks and Stuart Doyle ter design a Picture
Palis fer ’im at the capital, an’ as soon as it
wuz built ’e went an lived there, an’ made
us all call him the Duce, in memory uv
Moosilini.
“’E opened registered two-up schools, and
took 50 per cent, uv ev’rybody’s winnin's for
ther assistance of indigent N. Sydney electors.
Anyone caught sneerin’ at ’im in a noospaper
or elsewhere wuz fined five ’undred quid.. Fer
votin’ against ’im it wuz five years in a
road gang. ’E felt sorry fer pore old Bruce,
and appointed ’im a eommishun ter inquire
inter the correck wear fer golf matches. But
’e never forgived Page. The larst I ’eard. of
the doctor ’e wuz doin’ er conjurin’ an-
elusion ack wiv coins in the first part of a
talkie show.”
“But what happened to Mr. Hughes? I
THE REVISED VERSION.
HUSBAND: “Didn’t you promise to love,
honor and obey me?”
WIFE (very modern) : “I did not. I said
"No baby’!”
ẅ
ABDUL O'GRADY.


ẃ wŵ
*TH EM£ MO THROAT
’ * HARM ' ’ /
IN A MILLION/
“iO io* I'6.


The GC/MCD
LIN Co/ BEAUTY
)
_r--
5- 'SST
a A
m
/vi
! <?
30
\
w
On tinie-
all the time
“As regular as the Town
clock” was a phrase
often used to describe a
punctual man. But the
Town clock isn’t always
a criterion, and “regular”
has become a courtesy
title. Men to whom
time is of primary
import now rely on a
“Cyma” watch—in the
safe knowledge that the
most meticulously
punctual cannot be more
punctual than their
“Cyma.”
' sHk
»{£ -
—f
MPypa-ay
«
at I
*s™
Z feßSfi
-#r
n r
&~w.
Ilf M
VnKv :
f
mm
S’ -■-
i t ?' y s
A /«:
n
ip
fee
y'/
G.P.0.,
Adelaide, S.A.
S' \
iiws*
&L
J(£M
, SR@te
JP'aar^
w
A "Cyma” watch is essentially the watch
of the man of affairs, to whom precision
and appearance are equally important.
From a utilitarian viewpoint, a “Cyma
merits first consideration, because all
“Cyma” parts are interchangeable, and
repairs can be affected in case of accident
in the minimum time by any good jeweller.
fyporld O'&mous
CYMA
WATCHES
ŵ
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper.
To-day, in the great State of Queensland, the newspaper that
offers to merchants. and manufacturers unquestionably the
finest “cover” in the daily paper field is
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
Circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be
greater than that of any other Queensland daily.
For rates and other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE,
First Floor, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Do 2 Things
And Add
Thousands of
Miles
To the Life
of
Your Tyres
2
Experienced motorists every•
where are reducing their tyre
expense by following these
simple suggestions:
First, they see that a gen-
uine Schrader Valve Inside,
in good condition, is screw-
ed into every tyre valve.
This wonderful little valve
inside is equally dependable
for holding air in either
balloon or high pressure
tyres.
Second, they screw an
improved Schrader No. 880
Valve Cap tightly by hand
on every tyre valve. This
valve cap keeps dirt from
damaging the valve inside
and is airtight up to 250
lbs.
Sold by Accessory Dealers everywhere
clhrader
Makers of Pneumatic Valves Since 1844
Tyre Valves:: Tyre Gauges
A. SCHRADER’S SON, Inc.
Proprietary Limited
422 Little Collins St.
Melbourne, Australia
Keep hopping and hoping if you
tO SUCCCd .THINK OF
ẁ
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cu*
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention-
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
“The Woman’s Mirror'
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d<
It deals v ith every subject ot
interest to women.


Lubricate
your machinery
as you do your car
by the
TecalemiT
High Pressure System
TECALEMIT SERVICE STATIONS:
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street Perth
Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street Adelaide
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty., Ltd., Bateman Street Melbourne
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street Sydney
Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide. Street Brisbane
Factory Representative: Mr. JAMES THORNELL, 312 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
TECALEMIT, LTD., Mitre House, Serubbs Lane, London, N.AV.10., England.
ẃ
1
&
Full information,
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same day of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Wceldy Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from:
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd., Mr. V. W. Margetts,
73-75 Patterson Street, 122 Flinders Street,
Launceston. Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
mmmsm
CIGARS
'dVoM
At J good hotels |
and tobacconists 1
Special box prices on request
Wholesale Distributors
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
Pen and Picture
The
STARE
THEATRES
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Shadow Shows
“Madame X,” M.-G. M.’s talkie rendering
of the ancient melodrama by Alexandre
Bisson, knocks any stage presentation of the
theme into a cocked hat. There are several
reasons for this, one being the mobility of the
camera, which is able effectively to depict
Jacqueline’s descent from the position of a
faithful wife and mother to that of a common
street drab by
dancing in the
twinkling of
an eye from
Paris to Indo-
China and
then to a
tropic isle and
back to France
again, while
tlie woman
grows looser-
mouthed and
duller-eyed as
physical and
moral degen-
eration grows
upon her. Also
the brutal
directness of
the screen
method of nar-
ration seems
somehow easier
to stand than
the subtler
method of sug-
gestion of the
RUTH CHATTERTON.
stage. Twice is Jacqueline brought to tlie
noor by a dirty right from one or other of
her paramours. The smack rings across the
auditorium, yet the blow does not hurt the
listener half as much as the listener would
expect, probably because he or she has not
accepted these shadows on the screen as
truly real. Ruth Chatterton’s acting is
very good. She has to express the whole
range of feminine emotion, from the social
pride of the successful matron to the -moist-
eyed self-pity of the harlot. The court scene
is lifted out of melodrama into drama on
the shoulders of Raymond Hackett, as the
advocate who pleads for the life of the
woman in the dock, not knowing she is liis
mother. Hackett makes the longest speecli
Tuy Bulletin has yet heard from an actor
on the screen, and it is remarkably gripping.
“The Mysterious Dr. Fu Manchu” (Para-
mount) is the conventional Celestial pursu-
ing a melodramatic, though colorful, venge-
ance. His son killed by a shell from the
hated Westerner in the Boxer affair, Dr.
Fu sets out patiently to get even, first swear-
ing by his gods that he will kill unto the
third generation. Just before the unlucky
shot was fired, a white girl child had been
sent to his house for safety, and the doctor
indicates in excellent English that he will
use her in his revenge. He waits till she
grows up; then, by hypnotising her, uses
her in a series of murders, the victims being
ex-British _ leaders who took part in the
Boxer rising. Convenient to his purpose,
an ex-leader, his son and grandson, the last
also an adult, live in the one house. The
eldest passes out through getting a whiff of
poisonous vapor just as Scotland Yard has
got on to the track of Dr. Fu. Getting the
second generation off the map is not so easy,
but is finally accomplished. The youngest of
the trio looks an easier mark than he turns
out to be. Dr. Fu, as part of the vengeance
scheme, has plotted that this young man
shall fall in love with the girl, and through
that passion he is delivered into his enemy’s
hands. Such pleasantries as poison cups,
torture racks, revolvers and knives come and
go before the only posssible end is reached.
That end is as weak as usual, but the pic-
ture is satisfying for all that, with a few
good thrills in it, and suspense admirably
contrived.
Jacqueline Logan, still faithfully following
in her own footsteps, appears in “The
Bachelor Girl” (Columbia). This time she
has a great self-sacrificing love for Wm.
Collier, jun.. a worthless young salesman
in a haberdashery warehouse. Jacqueline
does his work for him while he flirts with
bis emnloyer’s daughter. When he gets the
sack she consents to marry her employer,
an elderly person with the aura of a beauti-
ful, unselfish nature" projecting' seven feet
all round him. Naturally when they go to
a robes et modes emporium to select the
wedding-dress the person who struggles in
under the load of diaphanous material is
William Collier, now sunk to the level of a
mere laborer. When the bridegroom per-
ceives that Jacqueline’s love for William is
as blind and beautiful as ever, he removes
his grey locks from the landscape. Pre-
sumably William becomes a reformed charac-
ter from now onwards. It is an incongruous
mixture of dumb film and talkie, and from
the beginning tbe end is as obvious as the
tail of an anaconda.
In their railings on what., constitutes in-
citement to vice the censors reveal their
naive unworldliness. It is an axiom with
all G- I. departments that the surest way
to increase the spread of an undesirable
practice is -to advertise it. For the same
reason doctors are saying that the advertise-
ment which the cocaine habit is now getting
in the Sydney press is going to produce a
huge crop .of new addicts. “Manhattan
Cocktail” is a recent example of a film
which advertises vice. It opens with the
pugilistic hero banging his sparring-partners
into unconsciousness. He meets the heroine,
who sliowst him the weals - on- .her, arms where
her stepfather hag; thrashed her. After a
sentimental interlude she is seen at home
again, and being thrashed into unconscious-
ness with a cat-o’-nine-tails by the step-
father, whose trouble is perfectly obvious.
Meanwhile, the hero is being punched into
a dazed condition in a prize-ring. Maddened
by the news of what is being done to the
girl, he makes a fine recovery and punches
his opponent into unconsciousness. Then he
dashes to the girl, and knocks; the stepfather
unconscious. As the old man lies on his back
the people in the home, to the number of
two to three dozen, jump on different parts
of his anatomy as they rush upstairs, and
repeat the process as they rush down again,
leaving the lacerated hero and his even more
lacerated bride-to-be in the conventional em-
brace. No theatrical producer would dare
to stage such an orgy of flagellation and
brutality. And any alienist will tell our
censor that even in film form it will tend
to encourage sadism and masochism, vices
which are as common as they are dangerous.
The Palette
The Twenty Melbourne Painters now num-)
ber 27, owing, no doubt, to natural increase.
Their show at the Athenaeum is a varied
and interesting one. P. Hurry (Mrs. Far-
mer) has caught Miss Joyce Wingate in a
yellow dress and an arresting posture, and
painted them with vim. Leason’s “Mar- j
jorie Pryor” is a speaking likeness of the
wife of Table Talk’s editor, but a bit of
still-life in the south-east corner is a con-
flicting point of interest which mars the pic-
ture as a whole. John Longstaff’s portrait
of Leo Cussen hardly rises above the status
of a hasty sketch. A. E. Newbury makes
a rather tired bow to his own conventions
with liis usual quota of gums. Edgar Fin-
lay pays a dubious compliment to a cele-
brated composer by labelling a study of an
industrial area “Moonlight Sonata.” Shore
appears to be adopting the New Economic
Policy in one or two of his pictures,
which are as conventional as any in the
show, while Norman Lindsay need not
take out an injunction against Frater for
poaching on his preserves with some nudes.
By their calm, assured statement of a few
simple truths, a quiet half-dozen by Clarice |
Beckett strike the most individual note. Miss |
Beckett finds extraordinary beauty- in a set I
of rails curving round a railway building, j
or a row of power poles staking a stretch
of opalescent road.
In the spring show of the S.A. Society
of Arts, Bernard Hall and Leslie Wilkie
loom large. Wilkie, who now combines teach-
ing with his work as curator of the Adelaide
Art Gallery, contributes portraits (including
one of John Ellershaw) with the smooth finish,
the deliberate cult of beauty, that the younger
men seem to dislike. Hall has a fine nude,
duplicated by a mirror. Other visitors are
f.a.q.—Salvana, Tom Garrett, Newbury,
Rubbo, Bell and Miss Sweatman. James
Ashton, with his familiar seascapes, and Giles,
with his ships, are among the S. Aus. painters
represented, while the landscape work of
Waden and Trenerry, among the younger
men, and of Howie and White, among the!
seniors, is admired.
Although Henri Hoile hails from the wilds |
of Warrandyte, his art (Kelvin Hall, Mel-
bourne) looks as sedentary as that of a
city seamstress. He gives the impression of [
an artist who looks at Nature through other i
people’s pictures.
“L’Fou”: A recent number of the Chris-
tian Science Monitor contains, as an
example of how fine a thing a woodcut; can
be, a reproduction of one by Sydney artist
Roy Davies, It is a piece of sheer wizardry
in bringing out the hidden beauty of an old
iron-roofed Australian shed.
The Adelaide Art Gallery has bought a
brilliant fruit-and-flower study by George
Wliinnen, and a'"mine-head etching by Good-
liart.
“Eross” : When J. J. Ililder was employed
in the Bega branch of the Bank of N.S.W.
he was a most prolific worker. Ilis sketches
were to be found on deposit slips, bank
notepaper and even blotting-paper. His
greatest effort was a landscape in red ink
on the manager’s fox-terrier. The artist
was requested to efface that masterpiece, the
effacement being effected with a scrubbing-
brush in the back yard.
The Inky Way
“L.R.”: An uncommonly interesting fea-
ture of the centenary celebrations in Perth was i
an exhibition of old-time Westralian news-
papers. Among them was a handwritten cony j
of the Fremantle Journal, published on Feb -
ruary 27, 1830, and consisting of two quarto [
sheets, with news written on both sides, and!
even letters to the editor.
“Avon”: George Fenwick (B. 2/10/’29)
visited the TJ.S.A. on several occasions, but
never got used to its journalistic ethics. 1
Once in ’Frisco he read a copiously illus-1
trated story regarding an immigrant from I
Fernland, an ex-parson with a family of 12,
who was described as a political exile and,
a victim of bigotry. Fenwick, who knew'
all the facts, tracked down : the news-editor
of the offending sheet, and with cold precision i
pointed out that practically every assertion
in the yarn was wrong. ' The news-editor
listened patiently until the man from Maori-
land had finished; then he said sweetly: 1
“But isn’t it a lahvely story, Mr. Fenwick?
You wouldn’t have us spoil a lahvely story
like that, would you? You wouldn’t have
the heart,!'’
“C.Q.”: Percy Leason had his first aero-
plane flight the other day. Afterwards he
found in the Melbourne office of the Larkin
Aircraft Go. the original of the first cartoon !
he drew for The Bulletin. It was called
“The Future of Aviation.”
“Kid Caramel”; Auckland journalists
recently invited the Arbitration ' Court to
raise their salaries and conditions to the
A.J.A. level. The Court listened sympatheti-
cally, but all it granted the scribes was.
another week’s holiday a year.


PAINFUL POEMS
My cousin John, a careless mortal,
Travelling in an ocean liner,
Leant too far through his cabin
porthole,
—Left a widow Clementina;
I '
To stop her sobs we tried and tried,
No soothing words of ours could
lull her —
“In the pocket of his coat ” she
sighed,
“ Was a full box of ABDULLA. ”
—Fougasse
VIRGINIA
TURKISH
EGYPTIAN
Two Hi
ẅ
w
Four Speeds Forward—Standard Gear Shift
Owners say they particularly enjoy the Graham-Paige four-speed .transmission (standard
gear shift) when driving in traffic. They speak of the rapid acceleration of third, a quiet
internal gear—the silent, smooth swiftness of fourth—the few times they find it
necessary to shift gears—and the ease with which the car handles. You are invited to
experience this new thrill in motoring.
Model 827 Five'Passenger Sedan
cum/
Graham-Paige Distributors , Australia and New Zealand
MOXON MOTORS, LTD.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA .... MAUGHAN THIEM MOTOR CO. LTD.
QUEENSLAND •• • • ro' LTD WEST AUSTRALIA ARTHUR BALES, LIMITED.
NEW SOUTH WALES WHITrSSrN PTY” LTD TASMANIA . . TWIN-TOP MOTORS PTY.. LTD.
VICTORIA WALTER WHITBOURN PTY., L W ri G HT, STEPHENSON & CO., LTD.
GAAAAM-PAIG£


ẁ
ẃ
gg
FOR MORE
MILES
TO THE
GALLON
Wholesale Agents and Stockists:
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The A.J.C. could not have had more beau-
tiful weather for the opening day of its
Spring meeting at Randwick, and, though
secretary Cropper was prepared for a re-
duced attendance in keeping with the times,
there has rarely been a larger crowd on the
beautiful course —78,000 was the estimate.
And if Limerick was an absentee (he has
been scratched for all engagements and is
to have a long spell), there were such high-
class horses as Nightmarch, Winalot, Molli-
son, Amounis, Fujisan and Loquacious en-
gaged, together with one of the finest tliree-
year-olds that Australia has ever seen.
Phar Lap was 6 to 1 for the A.J.C. Derby
when this Page picked him as a good thing,
but no 6 to 1 was available on Saturday.
Seven to four was the best price offered, and
5 to 4 was the general quote at the end.
Carradale, Comanche and Honour disputed
second favoritism at 9 to 2; the weight of
money for Comanche was rather surprising.
It was 20 to 1 bar four, 50 to 1 being offered
vainly about Queen Nassau, the outsider of
the party of 11. She it was who made the
early running, and when they had gone half
a mile she was out 10 lengths from Pentheus
and Phar Lap, behind whom were Lorason,
Honour and Comanche. Between the “six”
and the “five” the filly increased her lead,
but before another furlong had been traversed
Pike had paced the favorite up to within
three lengths of her, Honour and Carradale
now following him. Another furlong or so
and the chestnut had bounded to the front.
Into the straight he came, three or four
lengths ahead of Carradale, with Pike looking
round. From that point to the finish Phar
Lap seemed to be going at half-pace, yet at
the judge’s box he led Carradale by 3-|
lengths, while the Victorian colt was eight
lengths or so in advance of 1 on.the
rest of the field being strung out. It was
not only the easiest Derby win for many
years but the fastest Derby on record; the
time was 2min. 31|sec.
Phar Lap was cheered all the way up the
straight, and when he trotted back for the
weighing-in the tumult and the shouting
were magnificent. He races in the colors of
H. R. Telford but is owned by D. J. Davis,
for whom Telford bought him as a yearling
in Maoriland for 160 guineas. By Night
Raid—Entreaty, Phar Lap has Carbine blood
r? ‘l™ > Night Raid was a son of Spearmint,
Carbine s best offspring. The Derby success
was worth £6735 to Telford and Davis, less
likes cut; and this sum should be added
to immensely during the present season, even
it it is finally decided not to start the great
gelding in the Melbourne Cup.
Nightmarch showed in the Epsom Handicap
that brilliancy as well as stoutness is an
attribute of the Night Raid breed. The
overnight favorite at 4 to 1, he went to fives
on the course, partly because his jockey,
uoy Reed, had drawn No. 23 marble, and
partly because of the run on Gilt Edge (3 to
D’ Pacpfft 0 (5 to 1), Aussie, Loquacious
vr ■^■ oon (10 to 1) and Adrian’s
March (12 to 1). There was some warrant
tor the backing of the others, but Sydney’s
devotion to Aussie, who has shown only
second-rate form on this side of the Tasman,
is a turf mystery. As it happened the out-
side. position did not hamper Nightmarch
in the least. Except that Reed had to steady
J ‘ im lor a moment entering the straight he
had a clear run all the way, whereas
laquito and Loquacious, drawn a bit closer
m, were blocked from the start and could not
get out of the ruck until it was too late.
Vertoy (66 to 1) was about the smartest
to move, and she was never farther back
1 _aa third. About half-way Sir Clirystopher
(oO to 1), the grey from Newcastle, was
leading her, with Gilt Edge, Killarney,
Reonui (66 to 1) and Nightmarch handy.
®**d m much the same order they swept into
the straight. Gilt Edge’s name was roared
by his multitude of supporters, but the Vic-
torian chestnut failed to come on, just as he
did in the .Doncaster. Vertoy and Reonui
were fighting it out when Nightmarch
appeared on the scene with giant strides;
smothering the pair, he went on to win by
two lengths from Reonui and another length
a ? c l a . al {L f „ rom i n the excellent time
ot lmin 36|sec. King’s Arms (100 to 1) ,
another from Newcastle, was fourth; then
cmne Gilt Edge, Loquacious (who finished
very fast). Bright Glow, Paquito and the
Queensland candidate,. Royal Flavor.
Nightmarch is owned by a Maorilander, A.
Louisson, and trained by another, A. Mc-
Aulay. Few better horses have come to
Australia from Maoriland, and his victory
was very popular. His tote dividend for
10s. was £2 125.; Reonui’s was £6 19s. and
Vertoy’s £5 15s. Excellent divs. these, con-
sidering that 12J p.c., together with broken
money, is deducted from the pool—the Gov-
ernment takes 9 p.c. and the club 3J p.c.
With straightout and place totes and a“total
deduction of 81 p.c. (anything more is
an outrage) the public would get a much
better return for its money than McShort-
odds and the present machine afford.
Mollison was an unexpected starter in the
Spring Stakes. Foulsham, his trainer,
thought he would run a good mile and a
half, and he did; in fact, if Cook hadn’t
been in so much of a hurry he might have
won. On the outside at the post, Cook rode
the Seremond gelding hard till he had the
lead on the rails; then he .chased Black
Duchess for a few furlongs and tried to
come away from the three-furlongs post.
Pike, on Winalot, waited until Mollison
was laboring; then he urged his horse along.
A furlong from home it still looked any-
body’s race, but Winalot drew away in the
last hundred yards and won by a couple
of lengths in the very fast time of 2min.
SOfsec. On that showing Mollison would
have gone very close to winning the Caul-
field Cup with 9st. 21b.; he ran just as well
as Whittier did in the Spring Stakes of
1925, and Whittier carried off the Caulfield
Cup that year. Amounis was a fair third
and Concentrate a respectable fourth, but
Crucis —a strong order at fives —proved no
w.f.a. horse. Winalot was at sto 4, Mollison
4to 1 and Amounis 7.t0 1.
WELL PLACED.
“You know, he’d be a darn good horse in something that suited him.”
“He would, by cripes—in the lions’ cage at the Zoo.”
Beckwith (7 to 3.) put up a fine perform-
ance by running away with the first division
of the Kensington Handicap with lOst. 131 b.
up. Eric Connolly captured the second
division with Dark Man (7 to 2) ; Loud
Praise, backed from twenties to tens, was
second. This nice little mare should win
presently. Connolly worked the commission
on Nightmarch, but his winnings have prob-
ably been exaggerated.
A 101 b. penalty for his Epsom triumph
increased Nightmarcli’s Metropolitan weight
to 9st 121 b.. and it was a question on Satur-
day night whether he would start. However,
ho did so well in the meantime that owner
and trainer decided to let him take his place
in the field, and he retained his position as
favorite. It is many years since the same
horse has been favorite for both Epsom and
Metrop. The gallant brown was fated
not to win the double, though lie beat every
horse bar Loquacious, who proved a bit too
good with an advantage of 351 b. Valparaiso,
Spearman and Kavalli were prominent to
the turn, but in the straight the issue was
confined to Loquacious, Nightmarch, Concen-
trate, Oratrix (brother and sister) and
Paquito, who, sneaking up on the rails, got
third. On her good sixth in the Epsom,
many backed Loquacious, who went out at
sixes, Nightmarch being firm at 5 to 2. A
four-year-old sister to Windbag, and a worthy
one, Loquacious is trained by William Kelso
for Robert Miller, and was ridden by Munro,
who got every ounce out of her at the crisis.
The race was run in the tail of a duststorm;
the time, 2min. 44sec., was excellent in the
circumstances.
For the remaining days:—
Craven Plate: Phar Lap; next, Amounis.
Suburban Handicap: Fujisan; next, Don
Moon.
Members’ Handicap: Comanche; next,
Lorason.
Sydney Handicap : Leadight; next, Spear-
man.
Rand wick Plate: Winalot.
* * * *
Jack Holt is making hay while the sun
shines on Melbourne courses. After winning
three events on end with Highland, he gave
that faithful old fellow a holiday last Satur-
day and brought other stable stars into the
limelight at Flemington, where Royal Charter
captured the Stand Handicap and High Syce
the October Stakes. Even his trainer did
not anticipate that Royal Charter would
register such a brilliant success with the
substantial burden of 9st. 51b. Indeed, the
manner in which Catkin was backed sug-
gested that the rest of the field might as
well remain in their boxes. Closing "quotes
revealed Harry Gabell’s prad at 5 to 2, with
3.0 to 1 bar one on offer. Gabell gave the
mount to his close friend Bob Lewis, who
got the favorite away well. Catkin travelled
satisfactorily for a few furlongs and then
became submerged in the ruck. Royal Char-
ter slipped through on the rails at the homo
turn and scored magnificently from Waicul-
lus and Lalique. The mile and a quarter was
covered in 2min. 4isec., which is only half
a second slower than the course record.
J. M. Niall, just returned from England,
was warmly congratulated by follow-members
of the V.R.C. committee. Nearly two years
had elapsed since the Comedy King gelding
won previously. He broke down in Textile’s
Caulfield Cup and was turned out for a long
spell. Holt has punters properly tricked
concerning this year’s Caulfield Cun. Will
the stable-banner be carried by High Syce,.
Royal Charter or Second Wind? They be-
long to different owners, and each has re-
turned to the winning list.
Caramelo acquitted hiniself in the Stand
Handicap to the satisfaction of his trainer,
D. J. Price, and owner John Redmond. The
imported prad was prominent near the home
turn, but, being in need of a public gallop,
petered out. Price predicts that Hie ensuing
week or so will make a vast difference to
Caramelo. It is clear that Balmerino is being
tuned up for the Melbourne Cup. Price
intends giving this thoroughbred his first
spring outing in the Caulfield Stakes next
Saturday; he is not nearly so'forward in
condition as Caramelo. Frank Dempsey
piloted Karuma in the Stand Handicap, but
his refined horsemanship would not suit the
lusty stallion who was flogged to victory by
Bob .Lewis at Mentone.
With odds of 7 to 4 laid on him, High
Syce gave a thrilling display of speed and
courage by vanquishing two outsiders, Line-
age and Clarius, in the October Stakes, a
mile weight-for-age race, in which allowances
were granted to non-winners of £5OO weight-
for-age events and £lOOO handicaps. Billy
Duncan got into as much trouble with High
Syce as he had done with Highland at
Moonee Valley a week before, but he atoned
by phenomenal industry and daring. When
the position looked hopeless he forced the
favorite through the ruck, and, after giving
the leaders six lengths’ start over the last
two furlongs, scored by a length.
Juvenile ti'ack tests worked out accurately
in the Maribyrnong Trial Stakes. Greeii
Wave, by Greenstead from the dam of
Adjong, was favorite for the colts’ and geld-
ings’ division, and won all the way. Snow
Land opened favorite for the fillies’ race,
but was deposed by Mrs. Ernest Clarke’s
representative, Gerbera. Had it not been for
losing ground at the start, Girouette (Drake
—Moulinetj probably would have won. Snow
Land got home by nearly a length. Bred and
owned by Ben Chaffey, she is by Whittier
from Snow Song. “S. A. Rawdon,” the
breeder of Girouette, had to be content with
second honors in the Paddock Highweiglit
also, Pkocis being easily vanquished by
Camargo, a filly by Magpie from Maltine’s
Daughter.
* * * *
For Caulfield on Saturday:—
Stakes: High Syce; next, Mollison.
Guineas : Parkwood ; next, Gallopade.
Toorak Handicap: Gilt Edge; Holt’s
elect.
" ls
While Phar Lap was annexing the A.J.C.
Derby at Randwick, another M.L. bred
youngster in Hot Springs, a bay gelding, by
Chief Ruler—Tinkler, won the South Austra-
lian classic at Morphettville. Hot Springs
is owned by E. E. Jolly, and was ridden by
C. Selby. Bachelor Green and White Nose,
two colts owned by P. Campion and H.
McLachlan respectively, filled the places.
Hot Springs won by a length in 2min.
3.6j:sec., and paid £4 7s. for £l. The sensa-
tion of the meeting was the £177 18s. divvy
returned by Royal Lass in the last race of
the day, the Weigall Handicap.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Wrestlers displaced the boxers at Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night, when John
Pesek (13st. Sib.) mot Jim Browning (16st.)
on points in a return match, neither secur-
ing a fall. Giving a capital exhibition of
showmanship, they threw one another over,
under and through the ropes. The anguish
portrayed by the sufferer on these occasions
was like that registered by a bookmaker pay-
ing out on the favorite. There were no
casualties among ringsiders.
* * * *
A small crowd witnessed the contortions
of Ad Santel (lost. 71b.) and Allen Eustace
(lost. 91b.) at Melbourne Stadium on Satur-
day night and called insistently for the
inevitable short-arm scissors. Ad obligingly
brought it to light in the fourth round for
the only fall.
The Sydney-Perth air race was won by
H. C. Miller, of Adelaide, in a DHSO. Miller,
who receives a cup and £lOOO, was followed
by Major de Havilland, flying a Gypsy Moth ;
this pilot secured the special prize for fastest
average time, 105 m.p.h., his actual flying
time being 22hr. 50min. 23sec. A. T. Cun-
ningham, also in a Moth, was third. Weather
was very bad in the closing stages, which
were marked by a harrowing accident. Flying
low for visibility, C. D. Pratt and a passen-
ger, J. Guthrie, crashed into a tree in the
Baandec (W.A.) district, both being criti-
cally injured. They had won four of the
sectional prizes.
* * * *
The Rugby League Kangaroos gave Eng-
land a sound trouncing in the first Test al
Hull on Saturday, winning by 31 (7 tries,
5 goals) to 8 (2 tries, 1 goal), England
had to replace three of the original team
selected, but this did not detract from the
Australians’ win, which was achieved by
sheer superiority in pace and combination.
(Continued on'page 41.)


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Australia and the British
Commonwealth
By the Hon. J. G. LATHAM,
K.C., M.A., LL.B., Attorney-
General of the Commonwealth of
Australia. [Shortly.
The Sovereignty of the British
Dominions
By A. BERRIEDALE KEITH,
D.C.L., D.Litt., Regius Professor
of Sanskrit and Comparative
Philology in the University of
Edinburgh. [Shortly.
HUGH WALPOLE’S NEW
NOVEL.
Hans Frost
A story of conflict in the spirit
of a great writer.
[Dominions Edition.
The Complete Stalky & Co.
By Rudyard Kipling. With
frontispiece and sixteen illus-
trations by L. Raven-Hill. 1 Os.
6d. net.
The first complete collection of the famous
“Stalky” Stories.
NEW POCKET EDITION.
Works by the Author of
Elizabeth and Her German
Garden
Cloth, 3s. 6d. net each. Leather,
ss. net each: Elizabeth and Her
German Garden; Adventures of
Elizabeth in Rugen; The En-
chanted April; The Benefactress.
Others to follow.
To bo Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
V>'
N
Brush
NOVf • » ,; n g Ditf erenC
S«V‘»«ee P e,
-EE
loot SU l?heaviest cat? Brusb uu-
■H;WeCP s . tifvCO
Sll to a« ol o* prices.
is apV'Vf? sense P 0 ? 0 ' Booklet
at the sa "v»ants. ° hotter
Con-
-1 9
E'SJg’SSt^SSSS
ty leading ® e y rC^e tt bettef
Request-
s«» e e ja <**?s&£
r* ,oet Skve^VjpottD^ 1
»U Cal , p r s. A- 'i v 3
ligalX ' X!eNV^ ork ’ t Su>ccP er rklaberS ‘
@*^s‘ S " eP
CAI
BL
vl
"tv
BfiBBB
iSpitv
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.’
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
r'.-U.J.' v ,
A
You may not be able to visit
Scotland, gentlemen, but
when you join your friends
in a glass of McCallurrfs
Perfection Scots Whisky
Scotland comes to you in
every drop. It is the pro-
duce of her soil, her
rivers, her very atmos-
phere. Its home is in , %N
the capital, the heart s
of Scotland and it \
comes to you as
the best that the
dear old country
can. produce.
»///////////////«///////////////////////////,
¥
co
3
GENTLEMEN ! I ask you
to join me in a glass
of McCallum’s Perfection,
a Whisky that has been
in front for
GOLDSBROUGH MORT & CO. LTD#
Macquarie Place, Sydney
Sole Distributors for the House of McCollum


YG
OOQRD&SON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
&
DT
i
Swift & Comimny Ltd.. Australasian Agents, 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney .
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
THE WORLD’S LARGEST COMMERCIAL FORESTRY CO.
SUBSCRIBED SHARE CAPITAL £240,718
SUBSCRIBED BOND CAPITAL .. . , £3,425,000
FUNDS LODGED WITH TRUSTEES £410,000
BANKERS; BANK OF NEW ZEALAND AND THEIR AGENTS.
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET SYDNEY.
SOLE BROKERS: SMITH WYLIE & CO., LTD.
Australian Branches at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Townsville, Perth and Newcastle.
New Zealand Branches:. Auckland, Wellington, Christchurch and Dunedin. And at 36-38 New
Hroaci Street, London, E.C.2; Bombay, India; Singapore; Kuala Lumpur, Federated Malay
States; and Ilong Kong.
SYDNEY OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
fEAOST«WO«W R
TV,, remarkable efficiency e
IRTISH “R, EN S on if
XbtT^r-sr^
a upwa rd and
draws in■»’ , The inner Vi g
downward st■ do es the res •
pressure cy« Manufacturers.
patentees end Sol® & bR Q. LTD.,
WILLIAM 7 UR sheffield, Engla *1
E^tc
Procurable i g o uses.
k
THE
RENRUf
QUADRUPLE
Price, 45/-
(With Gauge,
5/ - extra.)
If unable to obtain
write to our Factory /
KB ,l “sKko£u:
GP.O. Box 71, Mel-
bourne, Australia.
Will fully inflate the average motor tyre in
one minute.
w
Bert: “No luck, Gert”
6ERT *"DIDNT OUR HORSE VsMN ?"
Bert;"lt was left standing
At the post"
GERT '/'gee) AND you MEAN TO SAY
EVERYBODY FORGOT to UNT\E \T?
The Ins and Outs
“Tenth Slip”: The big-cricket season
starts on November 18, when Queensland and
N.S.W. meet at Brisbane, while South Aus-
tralia and Gilligan’s Englishmen will get to
each other in Adelaide on the same date.
In all there will be 17 first-class matches,
including the Test trial at Sydney Cricket
Ground in December, so there does not seem
much reason for the complaint that the coun-
try does not get enough first-class cricket.
The games will all be trial matches for the
next Australian Eleven, and it is to be hoped
that the selectors will take their courage in
their hands and give the “unknowns,” especi-
ally among the bowlers, every possible chance.
* * * *
“Gabba”: Queensland intends to make
Andrew Ducat, the Surrey professional who
'ihas been engaged as cricket coach, earn his
oats. For five days a week he is to visit
primary schools for an hour’s coaching in
the morning, while he will fill in the after-
noons in supervising school, warehouse and
university cricketers at the nets. Saturday
morning will also be set apart for coaching
schoolboys, and a lecture on cricket is
required on Wednesday night. Saturday
afternoon will be devoted to playing cricket,
but so far .no arrangements have been made
for ’filling in the time on Sundays, though
it is likely this oversight will be remedied.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Ron Oxenham, who is a candi-
date for the next Australian Eleven, brought
off a rare performance in Brisbane club
cricket the other day by taking all 10 wickets
m an innings. It has only been done twice
before in the northern State, C. B. Barstow,
the mter-State bowler, being credited with
both feats. If Oxenham can find his true
form in the coming Sheffield matches, he has
a first-class chance of inclusion, for liis stylo
of bowling- is particularly suited to English
wickets, while his powers’of flighting the ball
would also be augmented by atmospheric
conditions.
* * *
“Aigburth” : The prospect of an Australian
visit next season has led English cricket
followers to revive an old grievance, the lack
of a sight-screen at the pavilion end of Lord’s
Cricket Ground. The screen is absent because
it would block the main entrance to the
pavilion, which leads directly into the mem-
bers’ bar. Visiting batsmen, as like as not
thirsty themselves, are upset by the sight
of members going in and out of the doors
to see a man about a dog, and getting behind
the bowler’s arm at the same time. Sugges
tions to paint the doors and even the thirsty
members white have not been considered,
and the problem still remains. It would
be a good move if all sight-screens were
abolished. They are a comparatively modern
innovation, one of the many designed to
handicap the bowler at the batsman’s ex-
pense. Without screens, we should hear less
about the necessity 1 for wider wickets and
amended l.b.w. laws.
* !i= * *
“Shrewsbury” : The English cricket side
under A. H. Gilligan, brother of Arthur who
was in Australia four years ago, left Eng-
land last week bound for Maoriland, with a
flying trip from Perth to Brisbane, during
which five matches will be played against
the States. On paper the side is a very
strong one; amateurs and professionals
are well balanced in batting and bowl-
ing. Australians will take special interest in
seeing if Dhuleepsinliji can repeat the
triumphs of Uncle Ranji on Australian
wickets.
❖
“Lansdowne”: Perhaps the most notable
performance of all achieved in English
county cricket last season was that of George
Geary, who took the whole ten wickets
of Glamorgan in the second innings of that
county against Leicestershire and won a
hard-fought match with his own arm, so to
speak. One man has not infrequently mowed
down a whole side before, but nobody has
ever done it in first-class cricket for so few
runs —18. The record in England under this
head was previously held by the Australian
bowler Howell, who went through Surrey in
one innings for 28.
Racquet and Bawl
“Hotham” : The Australian tennis authori-
ties are still debating the matter of chal-
lenging for the Davis Cup, but no decision
is expected until November. It is probable
that conditions will be altered for the next
tourney. One. favored proposal is that the
eight teams in the final should be entered
for the next year’s tourney, and seeded. The
remaining teams would then be inserted in
the vacant places in the draw. This would
prevent two strong teams meeting early and
one going out when it might otherwise have
reached the final. This happened to the last
Australian team at the hands of Italy.
* * # *
“Cut Shot”: Australian tennis players are
annoyed at the latest ranking list of the
world’s best players issued by the one-time
English crack, Gordon Lowe. The list of
ten does not include any Australian names,
since no Australian of note took part in the
big games in Europe last season. But Lowe
includes Dr. Gregory, who won the Aus-
tralian singles championship at Adelaide,
though he was twice beaten by Jack Craw-
ford and also by Hopman and Cummings.
The best way out of the trouble is for the
Australians to issue a ranking list of their
own, leaving out all the Englishmen. Lowe’s
list, like most of the others issued, is quite
unofficial, and the home-made product would
be quite as authoritative and at the same
time soothing to local susceptibilities.
❖ ❖ * *
“Top Spin”: Tilden has taken to the stage
for a living. He turned up in London the
other day, and started rehearsing the comedy,
“They All Want Something,” in which he
has been meeting .with considerable success
in America. What with Helen Wills aching
to _ become a poet-painter, and Tilden
desirous of becoming another Edwin Booth,
the public will probably welcome their fore-
casted withdrawal from the game. After
all what people want fi’om tennis players is
tennis, just as they expect punch from a
pug. People who admired Mr. Jack Johnson
in the ring were cold as to his performances
on the double bass fiddle.
$ *!- *3" iji
“Cash Amateur”: The world of profes-
sional tennis seems a circumscribed one as
far as the champions are concerned. The
only high-class players to go over to the
cash side of the game on the other side of
the world were Suzanne Lenglen and Mary
Brown among the women, and Vincent
Richards, Karel Ivozeluh and Paul Feret.
Lenglen has retired, Mary Brown is seldom
heard of, and Feret was reinstated as an
amateur by the French tennis authorities.
The result is that every year Richards and
Ivozeluh turn out to battle for the world’s
professional championship and other titles of
the kind. Ivozeluh, who beat Richards for
the world’s title last season, has just lifted
the American championship from his old
rival. It would seem a fitting occasion to
get the pair across to tackle J. O. Anderson
and Baker. The American amateurs refuse
to come, but there would probably be just
as much money in a professional torn’.
The Watermen
“Taipo”: Much has been made in Sydney
rowing circles of the refusal of the ’ M.L.
rowing authorities to send over an eight for
the coming season. The All Blacks, how-
ever, consider they have a grievance. Some
years ago they sent across an eight to Syd-
ney on the understanding that the visit
would be repaid. Time and again the Maori-
landers have tried to induce a N.S.W. crew
to honor the undertaking, only to be put off
on one excuse or another. The N.S.W. row-
ing body did quite well financially out of
the visit of the M.L. eight, which proved a
big draw. The Dominion folk are of the
opinion that their interests should, in turn,
be considered.
* * * *
“Blade”: The N.S.W. rowing season opens
officially on October 19, with Mosmun’s
annual regatta. The big event will be the
Boone Cup, held by Mosman, and, though
the famous eight has now been disbanded,
the club will enter a new one in its place
stroked by J. T. Vindin, No. 4 man at
Perth. Sydney will boat the crew which is
to compete at Henley-on-Yarra on the fol-
lowing Saturday, and the pair ought to fur-
nish a great battle. The first of the State
championships, the fours, will be rowed on
November 16, and, since the M.L. oarsmen
are not now coming over, the association
regatta with the State champion eights will
be held on December 21, as originally
intended.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: A weird departure from
rowing traditions was made on the Thames
lately, when a crew, coached by the genius
who had evolved the idea, attempted to give
an exposition of what the inventor calls
“syncopated. rowing.” The basic idea is to
have at least two oars in the water all the
time, thus avoiding the waste of propulsive
power involved in the swing forward to tire
catch. The boat is started as usual, and
then stroke and 7 strike a shade ahead of 6
and 5, and so on down the boat. The display
proved a washout, the oarsmen failing to
master the timing. To the outsider it is
difficult to see how the recovery is to be
made with at least two men in the boat
going Lack on their slides. The idea recalls
“Ouida’s” famous hero, who, in the Oxford-
Cambridge boatrace, rowed faster and faster
until he was making two strokes to one
by his comrades.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Burrmur”: Members! of country golf
clubs will be sorry to learn that they have
another predatory'enemy to reckon with. In
one N.S.W. town the golf club has its course
laid out on the showground, which is also
leased for grazing purposes. During the
golfing season a mob of about 50 sheep had
been running continuously on it. A week
ago! they were taken away to be . shorn, and
when one of the shearers wasi about to start
on a sheep he was amazed to find stuck in
the belly wool an almost new golf ball.
* * *
“Long Ball’’: Melbourne golfers indulged
in a driving and approaching competition
last week in aid of the Lord Mayor’s fund,
with some interesting results. The youthful
M. J. Ryan, Australia’s amateur champion,
won the driving with an average of 253
yards, though the longest drive of the com-
petition was W. D. Robertson’s 280 yards 2
feet. The best average among the boys was
260 yards, by Ron Harris, though J. S.
Campbell, with 283 yards, had the better
individual record. Considering that Ryan
is classed asi a long hitter, the performance
of these boys in topping his distance was
noteworthy. Neither were the women dis-
graced, for Miss Gumming, who averaged 218
yards, had a “best” of 231 yardsi 2 feet.
“Cranoustie”: Contrary to belief, Coionci
Bogey, who is nowadays losing ground before
Standard Par, is not a very ancient institu-
tion. In 1891 the committee of the Coventry
(Eng.) golf club was working out what
was then known as the “ground score” for
its course, and cast about for a brief
name for it. Someone suggested “Bogey,”
since the score would have its terrors for
the poor player, and this was adopted.
Shortly after, the United Services Club
adopted the scheme, and, since the constitu-
tion of the club confined membership to
military and naval men, “Bogey” was given
the honorary rank of colonel, which he has
since retained with such distinction.. For
years St. Andrews refused to recognise the
gallant officer, but softened its heart in 1910,
when special rules were formed by the com-
mittee for “Bogey” competitions.
* =i: * =!■
“Divot Digger”: The list of N.S.W. golf
clubs continues to increase, the opening of
the Tuggerah Lakes course recently bring-
ing the tally to 158. While there are not
enough clubs to absorb all the aspirants,
many of those already in existence are being
hard put to it to accommodate the members
they have already. Several of the Sydney
clubs have already embarked on larger new
clubhouses, or are adding extensively to
those already in use. The Lakes course at
Kensington is to have a £lO,OOO building,
which will be the last word in comfort and
equipment, while others are also launching
out on expensive additions. Certainly no
other sports organisation houses its mem-
bers so luxuriously as a golf club. The ques-
tion is whether it is good for the game as
a whole. Golf is nowadays becoming so ex-
pensive in the matter of the membership fees
necessary to maintain the standard of luxury
that only well-to-do folk can afford to play
as members of an important club.
* * * *
“Devil’s Punchbowl” : North - western
Queensland golf received a fillip the other day,
when a cup was played for at the Richmond
golf links. These are situated around what
once was the Richmond Downs station home-
stead site, an historic spot widely known to
graziers throughout Australia. The old
house stood upon the one and only hill in
miles of open downs, and from this hill many
gullies and watercourses lead off to the Flin-
ders River. The links wind in and out of
these, forming excellent natural bunkers.
However, the Colonel’s score is a regulation
39, and par some four less.
* * * s'=
“Westchester”: American golf authorities
were lately confronted with a knotty prob-
lem. Thei*e is an annual national champion-
ship for boys, the age-limit being 15. After
the final it was found that the winner was
over age. The prize could not be fairly
awarded to the runner-up, for the sake of
the lads beaten by the disqualified one. An
elimination contest was held among these,
the winner playing the original runner-up.
As that lad won comfortably, all was happy
ever after.
“Drayton” : J. L. Quarton, who has been
professional at Toowoomba (Q.) golf club
for some years, has been added to the increas-
ing list of players who have left the fairways
to coach beginners in the establishment of
one or another of the big shops devoted to
sport outfitting. He will take charge of the
golf school at Pike Brothers, in Brisbane,
and as he is a tactful mentor, as well as
a fine player, should do well. Some time
ago he had a bit of bad luck, a leg being badly
fractured, but he showed a return to form
in his last match at Toowoomba, when he
returned the best gross score of 77 in the
Diggers’ Cup, one of the leading annual
events in Darling Downs golf.
(Continued on next page.")


tfGJL I
p
?ui ta »
jm
gfITTHE AUSTRALIA!
rsiTM
yWKt
iiHB
L
U*TQA
CT
1
“THE AUSTRALIA”
is not a hotel but the hotel. Its guests
have the real satisfaction of being in the
heart of social and commercial activities.
And, further, they gain first-hand acquaintance
with our ideals of punctilious service.
Illustrated booklet
-in the heart
of things
he
Australia
Car and Cycle
“Trembler”: The famous French
driving trio, Marchand, Morel and Kiriloff,
have just put up new figures for a 20,000-
metres continuous spin. In 1927 the team
established a record for a 24-hour drive with
2724 miles covered. In their latest effort,
driving was continuous for 146 hours 3 min-
utes, the 20,000 kilometres —about 12,500
miles—being got over at a rate of 85 m.p.h.
That means about 2083 miles per day,
almost the distance from Perth to Sydney.
$ * * *
“Hotham”: The Victorian Light Car
Club’s dependability test, which is to begin
on November 2, has some refreshingly novel
aspects. Competitors may travel from Mel-
bourne to the objective, Porepunkah, by any
route they like, but must report progress
by letter and telegram. Most novel of
all the regulations is one enjoining that any
competitor driving to the danger of the pub-
lic, or using an inefficient silencer, shall be
disqualified. Such consideration for the non-
motoring wayfarer is unusual in events of
this kind, and the attention of those folk
who specialise in inter-State speed-records
along the public roads is respectfully called
to the fact.
* * * *
“Kick Starter”: Dirt-track cycling seems
to have retained the hold on the British pub-
lic which it assumed in its first season, and
most of the Australian and other riders in
the game are doing well. But Australia’s old
acquaintance “Sprouts” Elder has been dis-
qualified for refusing to race except on cer-
tain tracks. He can hardly be blamed, for
some of the British tracks are murderous.
Billy Lamont, one of the best of the Aus-
tralian stable in England, found this out at
Exeter lately when he came a fearful purler
at a hairpin turn. H'e may lose the sight of
an eye in consequence.
“Whizz”: The impression prevalent on
the mainland that it is impossible to open
out the throttle of a motor-car or -cycle in
Tasmania for fear of falling over the edge
has been dispelled. Beg Hay, of Launceston,
has ridden a B.S.A. from that delectable
spot to Hobart in 2hr. 15min. As the
distance is some 120 miles, and the country
on the bumpy side, this must be considered
a good road performance.
* * * *
“Sprocket” : This year’s world cycling
championships, amateur and professional,
were held in Switzerland. The amateur
sprint title went to A. Mazairac, who was
one of the opponents of Jack Standen in
the last Olympiad and at subsequent Euro-
pean meetings. The professional sprint
event was taken by Lucien Michard, the
French rider. The amateur road champion-
ship. over 125 miles, was won by the Italian
Bartalozzi, in 7hr. 20min. 36 3-ssec. This
compares poorly with times for the six-miles-
longer Goulburn-to-Sydncy race.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.” : The professional cycling-
authorities in N.S.W. have fallen foul of a
new sporting organisation which has taken
over Sydney Sports Ground with the inten-
tion of staging professional wheel-races
G.P. NAILON, one of Sydney’s leading
trainers, who has Valparaiso and Spear-
man in his charge.
among other forms of athletics. The League
of Wheelmen has refused to sanction the
proposal on the ground that it is contracted
with another promoting body to stage all
races within a 35-mile radius of Sydney
G.P.O. on its track for a period of Seven
years. This is practically placing control of
the sport in the hands of the promoters,. as
is the case in Melbourne where track-racing
is concerned. The idea emanates from
America, of course, where the promoter
combine has for years had all the say in the
game leaving the American Cycling Union
little but a name. The establishment of a
monopoly in Australia will inevitably lead
to the same result.
Miscellaneous
“Blue Chalk”: English billiard enthu-
siasts are showing great interest in the com-
ing tour of Walter Lindrum and Maor.ilander
McConachy. Walter’s showing in Australia
against Willie Smith, still regarded in Eng-
land as the greatest of billiard players, has
made a profound impression, and many are
of the opinion that the Australian lefthander
will clean up all the opposition. There are
a few, however, who recall that brother
Fred, past his best but still a great player,
found himself so handicapped by the winter
climate of England that he could not get
anywhere near his Australian form. Walter
and McConachy may encounter the same
hurdle.
LES. BAKER, the hard-hitting N.S.W.
tennis player, who has joined the
professional ranks.
“Splash”: The Americans have been dis-
turbing the swimming records again. Clar-
ence Crabbe, the Hawaiian youngster who
was to have come to Australia last year—he
was turned down because he insisted on
bringing with him a trainer who is not
popular in Australian swimming circles —
put up a new world’s record for 300 metres
while cleaning up the programme at the
U.S. championships in ’Frisco. Crabbe. s
time is given as 3min. 12 l-ssec., which, if
correct, knocks spots off Johnny Weissmul-
ler’s previous best of 3min. 35 l-ssec. A
swimmerette with the incredible, name ot
Albina Opsipowitcli also established new
figures in the 100 metres, done in lmin.
9 2-s's'ee.
“Shoot”: Considerable dissatisfaction is
being felt in Sydney surfing circles with the
new rule of the N.S.W. • Amateur Swimming
Ass., which makes all paid beach life-savers
professionals. Few of the men concerned
compete in amateur or other swimming com-
petitions, and certainly none for cash prizes.
The action of the association is the more
peculiar since its attitude towards profes-
sionalism, actual or veiled, has always been
tempered by expediency. Most of the beach-
men are Rugby Union players, but the S.A.
rule will not affect them in this regard,
since the Union bans no game or sport to
which cash considerations attach save paid
football. The rule, however, will notably
affect their status in other sports, such as
boxing, for instance.
* * * *
“Bias” : The unwritten law that a golfer
who has fluked a hole in one shall set them
up at the nineteenth has its counterpart in
bowls. The man who sends down his bowl
on the wrong bias becomes de facto host to
all and sundry on and about the green. The
golf happening is common enough. In bowls
the offence is so rare that a recent instance
in North Sydney is still being discussed, a
similar case not having cropped up within
the memory of the most untruthful inhabi-
tant.
* * * ■*
“Lying Two” : A Brisbane paper announced
the other day that the City Council had
ordered the establishment of safety-zones at
the Booroodabin bowling green. This was
taken to confirm reports as to the ferocity
which the peculiar pastime breeds, and
satisfaction was expressed that in future the
more aged and infirm members of the club
would be less liable to be bowled over by
their callous fellows. It turned out a false
alarm, however. The zones, are. to be estab-
lished outside the green, which is on a tram-
line. So the less agile members will still
have to take a chance when crossing the
green to the bar after a head.
* * =i= *
“Mephisto”: H. E. Grosskreutz, a well-
known Brisbane rifleman, hit a swallow with
one of his shots during a recent Queensland
meeting. The bird deflected the bullet only
slightly, and he scored a “magpie.'’ Not long
ago on the same range another Brisbane
rifleman hit a swallow during an ordinary
competition shoot, but on that occasion the
bird made the shot a washout.
“Port” : South Australia, hardly recovered
from the orgy of golf thrust upon it by the
Australian championships in Adelaide, turned
at once to the annual meet of the State
Rifle Association. There is one comfort
about the shooting men. While quite as
much in earnest as the golfers they do not
swear (much) when the marker signals a
miss. Neither is there any record of an
enraged rifleman throwing his weapon at his
caddie, or whatever is the target-shooting
equivalent of the essential but exasperating
individual with the cigarette eternally dang-
ling from the edge of a lip who invariably
hands one the wrong club. Returning to
the original subject, it should be said that
the King’s Prize was won by a Melbourne
C. C. rifleman, W. Thomson, after a tie with
D. K. Davies of the same club. Thomson
has won many big prizes in several States.
Davies was in the 1924 Bisley team.
“Dry Fly” : N.S.W. Premier Bavin, who
is a trout-fishing addict, even though he is
reputed to fish “wet,” put up a
other day for the institution of a “rod
license.” That means that every fisherman
outside the ranks of the men who make their
living by the game should contribute to the
Exchequer by taking out an annual license
to fish, as is' done in every civilised country
outside Australia. The Premier was speak-
ing in an unofficial capacity, but he will
have the endorsement of every true sports-
man. Maoriland has long protected her
fisheries by requiring all anglers to take out
licenses, and the results have been most
gratifying. Not only is Australia’s hardly-
come-by trout supply being heavily poached
under the present go-as-you-please methods,
but our own splendid fresh-water fishes,
notably the Murray cod, are in danger of
extermination.
“Lumper”: To the ordinary man weight-
lifting is about as exciting as croquet, but
to the little coterie of enthusiasts two-up
and the ponies are as nothing by comparison.
Thus a select Sydney gathering was moved
to tears of rapture when Don Athlado broke
several world’s records for holding up divers
lumps of metal and putting them, down again
without anyone’s corns being the worse. His
best performance was in the pull-over
and press-on back lift, when he successfully
handled 2731b.—331b. better than the stand-
ing world’s figures.
* :H * *
“Bobstay” : Recent reference to the grow-
ing-popularity of the 16-footer in open-boat
racing circles calls attention to the fact that
the class has only recently been taken up
in Tasmania, which, has turned out many
fliers in the ISft. and other classes. The
next 1.6-footer championships will be held
at Brisbane early in January, and it is pro-
posed that the event be held at Hobart in
the following year. Tasmania’s entry will
now bring the list of States regularly com-
peting in this class to four, Queensland,
N.S.W. and Westralia being _ the _ others.
South Australia seems to take little interest
in this type of sailing, and Victoria none at
all.
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: The question whether any
ped. has ever really broken lOsec. for the
100 yards has often been raised. A lot of
men have been credited with the feat, but
subsequent performances have generally
proved that it cannot be repeated. Even
electrical timing has been of little use in
clearing up the discussion, the apparatus
usually proving as prone to error as the
man with a stop-watch in his hand. Some
light was thrown on the subject by the per-
formances of Lynch Cooper in Perth re-
cently, when he tried to break the Westralian
record of 10 l-ssec. Cooper won the Stawell
Gift in 1928, and followed that up by taking
the so-called world’s sprint championship at
Melbourne Motordrome. In the events con-
tributing to the championship Cooper never
once clicked with even time. In his try to
set up a new Westralian record he was
well out of the hunt, clocking only 10 2-ssec.,
though he had men as far as seven yards
ahead of him to beat.
* * * *
“Spike”: The next Olympic Games have
been scheduled to start in the last week in
July, 1932, at Los Angeles, near which is
Hollywood, a portion of the Wentworth elec-
torate. They will run their usual course, and
it is to be hoped that if Australia sends a
team across it will be an improvement in all
respects on the lamentable washout in 1928.
Instead of carrying the frenzied hat round
at the last moment and accepting douceurs
from newspapers and other advertising
mediums, it is proposed to start raising-
funds at once by asking every sport institu-
tion to cbllect 6d. per head from its members
per month.
Business, Robbery, etc.
ẁ
ẅ
“942”: If milk is below the standard of
butterfat required by N. S. Wales law, the
dairyman or wholesale distributor adds a
sufficiency of cream. But if milk is far above
standard and the purveyor adds skim milk
he risks a penalty. Recently a woman
was fined for not stirring the milkcan she
was selling from in her shop. It amounted to
that, at any rate. Slie drew the milk from
a tap at the bottom; the cream obstinately
stayed at the top. The inspector did the rest.
Pasteurisation would have saved her, as it
has an effect of emulsification and practically
abolishes the cream line.
* * * *
From Octavius O. Beale: —
“Natalite” (B. 11/9/’29) says Queensland walnut
was neglected until the American buyers came along.
My company has cut it into face-veneers during more
than 20 years. And more than 20 years ago I showed
it to the biggest concerns in America. They now
advertise it as “Superior to European Walnut.’’
“Natalite’s” ship in which “17,000,000 super feet
left Cairns,” is a monster of marine architecture
that makes the Leviathan a cockleshell. He says,
too, that the Yanks cut up the walnut with electric
wires. What he doesn’t say is that poor Australia
gets merely the wages of the men who chop down
the glorious trees, plus the freight on losing railway
lines. This, free of export duty or any kind of taxa-
tion. And so with the other irreplaceable and
vanishing assets from our forests.


■
f
m
H
i
M
H
W
I/:. ■ ■
m
■
gSm
; • • '
:l ;.: ?
11
1 ■:
si
■ I
19
f iv.
H
mm
m
§
m
m
H
I m l
i :
H
s
■
■
is v
■
m
u
B
S
*
: ;V-:
IS*
I H
■
is:
S
mm
1
!!#
it
i
v
a
■ B
B
ii
■
H: I
■H
MS I
HOCK.
V f:f
ii i
Si
<sa«t^ uAf!
■
•:'••• •'
1
■
m
t*
m
*
n ;
> ■ ■ 58. <„*
■
.v.
1
a/
3BOS


C
IS-
-rx
m
i
The Greater
HUDSON
ESSEX
The Challenger
w
I
Hi
ft:
ft
JE
In performance, beauty, economy and
reliability —by whatever abilities you
judge a motor car —Essex the Challenger
and the Greater Hudson must exceed
your liveliest expectations. For these
two fine Super-Sixes have shattered
NEVER BEFORE SUCH
OUTSTANDING VALUES
record after record in perform-
ance and sales.
Ask to see these beautiful big
cars, and drive them yourself.
Test them by any standards you
choose. Then you will know why
they are attracting world-wide
enthusiasm —why all motordom
is acclaiming Essex the Chal-
lenger and the Greater Hudson
the outstanding values of the year.
HUDSON PRICES AT SYDNEY.
5 Balloon Tyres Standard Equipment.
Hudson —122 in. Wheelbase.
Roadster (Imported Body) • •
Coupe (Imported Body)
Standard Sedan (Imported Body) . .
Tourer (Imported Body)
Tourer (Australian Body)
139 in. Wheelbase.
7 Passenger Phaeton (Imported Body) . .
7 Passenger Sedan (Imported Body) . •
. £5OO
535
535
550
. 475
. £630
775
ESSEX PRICES AT SYDNEY.
5 Balloon Tyres Standard Equipment.
Tourer (Australian Body) . .
Standard Sedan (Australian Body)
Standard Roadster (Australian Body)
Coupe (Imported Body)
Convertible Coupe (Imported Body)
Town Sedan (Imported Body, with bumper bars) . .
£290
365
290
385
395
420
HUDSON
MOTOR CAR COMPANY
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
LTD.,
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
MOTORS LIMITED.,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.
Holbart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE— BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


52 Maeleay St.
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT, SYDNEY
(Located ‘within the City Boundary, ten
minutes from G.P.0 .)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 160 rooms, is now open, and
features Single Rooms, Double
Rooms with Bath, and two-, three-
and four-room Suites with Bath.
Central Heating, Hot and Cold
Water, Phone and Bedside Lamp
in each room. Unsurpassed
Harbor views.
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines).
Telegraphic Address: “Fifmac,’*
Sydney.
J
\ust a Moment fromi Everywhere
The Wentworth—Australia’s most efficiently-managed hotel
-—is handy to theatres, shops and banks —yet delight-
fully situated away from the noise and roar of the city.
Personally conducted by Mrs. H. Maclurcan, Governing
Director, it is the centre of all smart gatherings, and the
Mecca of visitors who appreciate comfort, convenience
and excellence in cuisine.
Wire or write your reservations.
(The Wentworth
In
Church Hill
Sydney
AUSTRALIA’S
HOTEL
DE
LUXE
Unde?
/Royal
w
ToH.M.
GeorgeV
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
CharlesTleidsiecfo
Australasian A grants—
Swift & Company Limitad
SYDNEY.
Champagne
'iarlesHcidsiec^
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrerts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
SLIPPER
HEEL
SILK HOSILERY
The sun shone and a cool wind blew and
gold bloomed in the flower-beds at Randwick
for the opening of the spring meeting. In
the stands, too, gold bloomed —tinted gold
and minted gold. It positively shrieked
attention to itself in the thousands of pairs
of beautiful shoes that passed up and down
the stairways; and it didn’t leave off at the
shoes. The Bible says that a virtuous wife
is beyond rubies; but the Randwick Book
of Revelations declares a well-dressed wife
is above her weight in gold. Even the State
Governor’s lady was able to run to an
entirely new outfit, despite the high cost of
Gov’ment-House living. Altogether, indeed, the
opulent figures at Randwick were so opposed
to the bleak figures of statistics that,
with a new access of hope in the future of
the country, this Letter came home and
decided, after all, to secure the near-crystal
necklet of its heart by the lay-by.
Really the De Chair family looked very
handsome, the Governor’s lady in her fav-
orite green. It was the green of a new
spring leaf, seemed patterned with sunlight,
and was covered with the inevitable coat of
the. season, which was of green crepe de
Chine. Elaine was in pinky beige and brown
velvet with a wide hat, son Graham wore a
topper, and the Viking looked no end of a
lad with liis air of having a good story
tucked in the corner of his mouth.
The most striking woman at Randwick
was Mrs. Harry Rosenthal, of Melbourne.
Tall and unusual looking, she suggests at
once an Aubrey Beardsley drawing and a
fashionable woman at Longchamps. Green
was the color of her outfit. It started wdth
a Reboux model —a hat that might have
been fashioned out of a wide green* leaf. It
was plain, just depending on cut and the
ow - The frock of grass-green
chiffons had a drape that swept almost to
the right ankle. Its flimsiness was covered
with a kasha coat of duller green, on which
fur was banded across the shoulders and
around the upper arms to give the effect of
a fur slipping off the shoulders. Pretty
green shoes supported this finery, with which
were worn a pair of raisin-shaded stockings.
..1 darting among the crowds about
the official stand was Mrs. John McKelvey.
Her choice was that misty sky-after-rain
blue that is named Belong. The garnir,
was quite plain and cut to the slim figure,
T^i ore kittle kilted bands about its hem.
*°v. y Vardel ? hat in natural Baku, lifted
oft the face with a scarlet velvet bandeau
and worn above a red frock thick with large
white spots, gave an unusual look to young
Airs. Graham Pratten ; and her sister Claire
Crowley wore the pale blue of the moment in
a graceful ensemble, shaded bv a wide blue
aat. its crown wreathed with white flowers.
Line Moses in this group wore navy blue
at its smartest. Incidentally, navy blue has
come back to its own; some of Saturday’s
smartest frocks were fashioned of this shade,
winch for so many years woman has marked
severely for use in his Majesty’s Navy.
Another wearer of smart navy was Mrs.
Harry Dransfield. Mrs. Reg Stafford, of
Cassius, wore her flawless complexion be-
neath a poppy-red hat in the new Sisolaque
S if- a Y s ‘ pictorial and the smart "were
allied in her. patterned flat cr§pe frock. Nan
Garvan s violet and primrose brought a
memory of English spring. Mrs. Vivers
was radiant in black and red. Mrs. Rodney
Dangar wore black and white and hostessed
one ot the largest lunch parties.
The Navy kept up its reputation for smart-
ness, the Admiral’s lady presenting black
with awe-inspiring ermine cuffs and collar,
and commander Hogan’s lady wearing a
black tailor-made. Yellow and brown enfolded
Mrs. Nigel Smith. But the less said about
yellow the better. There was so much
ot it about that Randwick looked like a
quarantine station. It was as frequent as
colored shoes. Mrs. Rupert Boyd was in
black, and black was worn by Mrs. George
Macarthur Onslow. Grey and black pat-
terned chiffons and a grey hat were the cool
™ aar eo S y me > of Melbourne. Jo.
O Keene s black suit had a very unchurchy
clerical collar peeping above it. Mrs. Bill-
yard Leake, the big-game huntress, seeing no
tigers about, had a shot at the gees • and
Beau Burdekin, more the flappers’ lament
than ever, passed on his conquering way.
Spring has lured flights of motorists on to
country roads, and the long week-end (Mon-
day was Eight Hour Day) had heavy bookim-
at the hotels along the tourist routes. With
few exceptions those bed-and-breakfast bow-
sers still offer many conveniences for women.
Mudgee, among the towns that don’t own
cathedrals, holds its head highest; and further
afield Tamworth is providing itself with some •
thing to satisfy even the oversea tourist.
Along the coast conditions have greatly im-
proved ; you are nowadays liable to come upon
unexpected little taverns that make you want
to stay longer—at tiny Urunga, on the North
Coast, for instance, and at better-known
Narooma, among the oysters and the short-
horns of the South. For one thing at any
rate the traveller can now be thankful. This
Letter’s next-door neighbor dawdled from
George-street to Brisbane and back a week
or two ago—up by the coast and down the
tablelands —and didn’t once have a camp that
was without electric light. But more than
once the women of the party took a single
look at the ladies’ bathroom —the sex is
lucky if there’s even one —and fled.
“Scots wha hae” played a band in Martin-
place last Friday. A brass band it was,
and the music dominated the whir of choco-
late wheels, the raucous voices of spruikers,
the mad rattle of boxes. And bled the multi-
tude were—not only Scot but English and
French, Syrian and Chinese, Jew and Gen-
tile. And nobody minded as the veins of
pocket or handbag were drained of their
silver blood. For Friday was Rose Day, and
generous Sydney turned out to give a help-
ing hand to the United Charities for which
the day blooms. Great red roses decked stall
and chocolate wheel and dais in Martin-
place. From this stand Sir Dudley, with
son Graham and official secretary Harry
Budge in attendance, gave vice-regal bless-
ing to the day.
Every week is Race Week at the Deep
X-ray Clinic of St. Vincent’s. Here from
early morning till late evening the healing
ray matches itself against disease. The
ray has a room to itself, and in with it the
patient is closed behind a deep lead door
that divides it from the rest of the clinic.
Above the door is a little window through
which the doctor from time to time looks in
at the patient just to reassure her (or him)
that all is well. But after the first treat-
ment, patients, finding they are not conscious
of any discomfort, save that of a little heat,
feel perfectly secure, and, lying on their high
narrow couch, gaze cheerfully enough at
the game of sun and shadow outside the
ever-open door that leads on to a stone
courtyard. This door and the high window
are always flung wide so that patients have
in addition to the sun and wind the comfort-
ing sure sounds of everyday in their ears.
Dr. Leila Keatinge, the nice girl in this
Dayne picture, has been shouldering half
the work of
this clinic for
many months.
The other half
is done by the
clever doctor-
son of A. G.
Stephens. For
some time the
plant at Prince
Alfred’s was
out of com-
mission, and
patients from
that institu-
tion as well as
from Sydney
Hospital kept
the two young
experts going
for their lives.
From now on
Dr. Stephens
will be work-
ing at Prince
Alfred’s and Dr. Leila at St. Vincent’s.
Cambridge is the great seat of learning
for medical X-ray, so the Victorian girl,
after going through medicine at Sydney Uni.,
decided to take the Cambridge course. Also
she decided not to waste good money on
travelling by a luxurious liner. She got a
job as surgeon on one of the Port boats,
thus incidentally making history as the first
woman surgeon in the British merchant ser-
vice. The boat waddled over the ocean with a
wheat cargo to Germany. There its surgeon
left, and did a course of the hospitals of that
country. Then came Cambridge and study in
the London hospitals. The main difference that
she noticed between the hospitals of Ger-
many and those of England was that, where-
as in the former money was found to instal
the most up-to-date and marvellous apparatus,
though the linen and beds and the general
accommodation for the patient were very
shabby, in England the physical comfort of
the patient was the great consideration.
Leila Keatinge is blue-eyed and young and
blonde, and her mission in life is to help
science cure cancer. And more than hope
animates her; she is positive that the scourge
can be conquered—if only sufferers will come
to the clinic as a starting point, and not
as a last resource.
Friendly Quambi, the Kelso King home,
threw its doors wide on Saturday after the
races, and a stream of hospitality flowrnd out
and encompassed the approaching guest.
The knight of the kindly voice stood with
his lady in the square hall that has the
mahogany panelled dining-room on its
right and the treasure-filled drawing-room
on the left. The doors of both were open,
loosing voices and laughter and the stir of
gay summer fabrics in an exciting little eddy
that drew the newcomer to its centre. The
hostess was froeked and hatted in graceful
black. Red currant crepe de Ghine formed
Olive Kelso King’s colorful raiment, and
Hazel’s attire was sapphire blue lit by a
topaz hat. Premier Bavin came to the
party, and found before him the State’s first
woman Premier, if ever Feminists have their
way. Meantime, Mrs. Albert Littlejohn
modestly dangled her jade earrings at the
cinerarias in the garden. And Youth at
its most radiant was present when Noreen
Worrall stepped into the room.
The Admiral gave a party. It was too
late to tuck into last ■ week’s Letter and
rather an early fixture for this one. But,
still, as it is the first of any size since
Evans of the Broke and his lady took over
the Australia, it deserves a mention. It was
given for Mrs. Fred McMaster, at whose
station home in Cassilis the Evanses had
been guests. To begin with, there were to be
just 25 guests and a dignified dinner party;
but then it developed, as parties do, to a
guest-list of 150. But, whereas the few were
invited to dinner, the multitude was invited
to dance.
By last week-end camellias and azaleas
blowing as wild and free as the circum-
scribed area of tub and flowerpot will allow,
a spreading tree decking its elderly limbs
with a felicity of leaves and a pocket-hand-
kerchief lawn green in the sunlight, turned
the back garden of Burdekin House into a
smiling oasis in a Sahara of bricks and
mortar. On every side of that die-hard bit
of old Sydney are towering flats and super-
cilious city buildings. A skeleton block of
flats not yet fleshed with tiles must have
given that realist in art Radcliffe Brown the
inspiration for his painting of the century.
The azaleas and camellias are the result
of the loving care of Professor Waterhouse,
whose interest in the exhibition of antiques,
now in full swing at Burdekin House, has
burned with an intensity that almost equals
that of its proposer, Roy de Mestre. The
idea at the back of this show is that some
public-spirited citizen may step forward and
purchase the house as a State repository for
antiques and art-museum pieces. Certainly
no building could lend itself more fittingly
to such a purpose.
The artist in Roy de Mestre suggested to
Mrs. Charles Walker, of Prince Alfred’s,
what fine setting the rooms would make
for pieces of the Georgian and Victorian
eras. Mrs. Walker grasped the idea, and
the direct outcome of the present show will
be a fine cheque for Prince Alfred’s; for all
the entrance money goes to that institution.
The • Knoxes, Papal Countess Freeliill and
Mrs. George Vivers have gladly lent their
treasures; so have Professor Waterhouse,
Professor Sadler and Mr. Berry, partner of
that avid collector Hardy Wilson, and a
group of other enthusiasts. The ground and
first floors are given over to the glories of
the past—lacquer, mother-o’-pearl inlay,
Jacobean designs in woollen embroideries,
old cedar, older mahogany, and four-poster
beds with barleycorn legs and posts. Here
gleam silk Persian rugs, damask curtains;
mellow woods glow and whisper of forests of
the seven seas. Old-fashioned prints and
paintings adorn the walls; and against the
glass of china cabinets, exotic flowers, field
flowers and strange bright birds beat in
a riot of color.
The green-gold of early daffodils shone in
the frock worn by Mrs. George Vivers when
with Mrs. Rodney Dangar she entertained at
Burdekin House on Sunday afternoon. It
fitted princess fashion to the wearer's slim-
ness and from the tiny tucks that drew the
chiffons snugly round' the hips the chiffons
flowed out, a peacock hem that swept the
floor at the lady’s heels or curtseyed and
danced gaily in the draught from suddenly
opened doors. Mrs. Rodney Dangar wore
smart black and white, and had her pretty
mother and her gold-haired sister Bea Mac-
donald to smile approval on her works.
The most animated scene of the after-
noon was the tea-drinking in the Spanish
courtyard. Thickly sanded, its yellow tones
threw into relief the vivid green chairs and
the brilliant orange tablecoths and china.
Large gay beach-umbrellas sprouted at inter-
vals ; under a red one down in the right-
hand corner Lady de Chair drank her tea
in company with Mr. Bavin and Mrs.
Dangar.
Because this Letter has a sneaking admira-
tion for heroes it never fails to drop into the
Town H'all when the medals and awards of
the Royal Humane Society are being pinned
on manly chests —many of them swelling
beneath the school tunics of little girls.
This year there were 33 awards, and they
included, as usual, several shark-rescuo*
honors. A gallant small girl of eleven.
Teresa Emily Bethridge ; Maxwell Wilson, a
man of the same age; and Wilfrid Cutbush,
their senior by a whole year, were among
the brave to whom ex-Chief Justice Cullen's
Ailsa handed certificates.
St. James’s put out its red carpet last
week for Nancy Sutherland, who made still
another picturesque memory for the hoary
old church to lay in lavender. With the help
of Padre Barden, of Vaucluse, she became the
wife of Prank Keele, of Bellevue Hill, and
thereby sister-in-law to the wife of knight
John Butters. Canberra’s ex-Chief Commis-
sioner. The bride is a daughter of the late
George Sutherland, of Bathurst. Tulips and
crimson roses were wedded in her bouquet.
Her mother later beckoned the wedding
guests into the Dungowan.
Without benefit of wedding-veil, Eleanor
Wheeler, the younger daughter of the For-
dyce Wheelers, duly became Mrs. George
Cohen one morning last week. An ensemble
in cobalt-blue georgettes, and a little poke-
bonnet hat in the same tone clothed the
bride. There were no ’maids, and the invi-
tations issued by bride’s father and mother
to lunch at the Australia were strictly
limited.
Last week Lyal Kirby, of Moree, an old
King’s boy, took the chapel of the State’s
historic old school to witness that he would
cherish Phyllis Robertson in sickness and in
health, for better or worse, for the term of
his natural. Phyllis, who is a daughter of
the late Dr. J. S. Robertson, stepped into
matrimony all ready dressed for her honey-
moon. Beige crepe de Chine, smartly
fashioned in three-quarter coat and pleated
skirt, formed her attire. Esme Evans
’maided in a cigar-brown ensemble, and tin?
bride’s mother later entertained at the Wool-
pack, Parramatta’s ancient hostelry, where
—but you must ask them yourself to show
you some of the old furniture.
A last week’s bride who wore her veil over
her face was Esme Browne. This is worth an
N. 8., as most brides have forsaken that sym-
bolic fashion. Esme’s other raiment included
a shimmery white satin frock which trailed a
long satin train lined with silver lame and
tulle, and' an armlet of orchids and carna-
tions. H. H. Browne, of Pyruble, handed
his daughter up the aisle, and sister Beryl,
Dorothy Haig and Dr. Gladys Benz were
among the. season’s smartest bridesmaids.
They wore pink satin frocks, cut on princess
lines. The backs of these glittered with
rhinestone buttons and were further embel-
lished with large bustle bows. Betty Ste-
phens, looking like a rosy handmaiden of
Spring, attended to the train. The ’groom was
George Boyd Burtinshaw, of Lismore. Mr.
and Mrs. Browne later entertained their
guests at the Ambassadors.
The word that beautiful Anne Brennan is
dead will come as a shock to those writing
and artistic circles of Sydney which a few
years ago, before her marriage to George
Gibson, of Melbourne, knew her well. But
this Anne, who once, walking through a cafe
in a brown frock, a bunch of orange poppies
on her arm, aroused this Letter to an
admiration nearly lyrical, was born to tra-
gedy. Her father, the brilliant Chris, was
Professor of Comparative Literature at Syd-
ney TJni.; her husband last February met a
horrible death when he was taken by a shark
just as he was about to leave the surf. And
now Anne herself goes from us at 30.
Mabel F. Goodheart is a South Australian
girl with a record at the bar, though she
is no cocktail flapper. Though still in her
early twenties, she is already a barrister, and
holds her degrees of B.A. and LL.B. She
is now with the old Sydney law firm of
Norton, Smith and Company. In London,
from which she has just returned, she helped
Galbraith and Best, of Australia House, to
earn six-and-eightpences.
Talk of the Talkies recalls a happening at
the Government House garden party to the
Medical Congress. A sound camera had
been put in position in a secluded bit of
the side garden; here Sir Dudley was to wel-
come the leaders of the congress in a few
well-chosen words, and then Sir Ewen
Maclean, who is quite an orator and has been
told so, was to make the return compliment,
thanking the Governor for the interest he
had shown in the congress and for his and
the Vice-reine’s hospitality. There were just
a handful of the ’Eads gathered together for
the ceremony, and Sir Dudley duly said his
modest little piece. At that moment some-
thing went smash; nevertheless Sir Ewen,
unconscious of it, declaimed bis speech in
reply. Beyond that handful of secretaries
and aides and Governors his mind glimpsed
vast audiences as wide-flung as British
sovereignty. From suave beginning to
rounded conclusion that speech rippled and
flowed. And not a man present had the
courage, even after the last word had been
uttered, to tell the medical magnate from
Britain that not one word of his speech had
been recorded.
OVERHEARD.
(In the lunch-room at the Races.)
Mother ( over-anxious ) : “Darling, why didn’t you
wear your colored shoes?”
Daughter ( impatiently ): “What does it matter?
Nobody notices on the stands, and I won’t be
putting my feet on the lunch-table.” ■
Escort (p lacatingly) : “No, that’s right. Nobody’ll
order sole here.”


{rS
iiH\\
IN JELLY
[c=o
Why is REX-PYE so obviously
supreme in quality ?
Simply because we use only the
very choicest raw materials,
never sacrificing quality for
cheapness.
Note the delicate, appetising
aroma of REX-PYE as you
open the can, and the fresh,
pink, wholesome appearance of
the meat. Note the clear, firm
jelly. Enjoy the delicious flavour
as you eat the dainty.
For Quality, always say REX-PYE to your
grocer or smallgoodsman.
rs'
It 7 lib and J Alb hygienic cans.
Foggitt Jones Pty. LtcL
(Division of United Provisions Ltd.)


THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman's paper published in
the Commonwealth.- It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 George Street, Sydney.
1
i ,**•' H~Uh EsH**
•d A* I **-
BENGERSft
coon \)
FOOD v
l, ' , 4nis,7nvalids.a"nC)
Booklet post free from BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
for
Infants
Invalids
and
the Aged
Food
Seed. Trade mark.
Monday to Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/-
Saturday, Late Oala Night.
Special Table d’HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 12/6; or
a la carte, minimum, 12/6
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 6.30, 5/-
The Ambassadors New Delightful
Dance Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
PARADISE PLUMES
BY GILBERT MUNRO TURNBULL
by <G.[K O O
Synopsis : Returning to Papua
from Sydney, Stephen Blalce, Resident
Magistrate, is attracted to Lesley
Rowan, ivho subsequently marries
Harry Merton, a planter, who has
banished his native mistress, Loana, and
their son. Visiting Laubogi, Merton’s
plantation, Blake becomes suspicious
that Merton knows something of the
“ghosts,” which he had been told would
flit through the village in the shape of
humans, whilst Merton’s sharp chang-
ing of the topic when bird-of-paradise
plumes are mentioned, followed by
Blake’s statement that shooting the
birds is outside the law, influences
Lesley to burn a large bundle of the
plumes that were in the house. At
the home of Tod Lorimcr, a rich
planter, Lesley becomes friendly with
Lorimer's half-caste daughter, Moira,
and is annoyed later when Merton sug-
gests that she should break off the
friendship. Blake’s suspicions are
deepened by the business relations of
Merton and Sam Turner, a dipso-
maniac, especially as Turner is send-
ing small shipments to Sydney direct,
an _ unusual procedure, made more
curious by the fact that the shipping
papers are made out by Lesley.
Blake’s native sergeant, Babaka, set
to watch, reports that he has seen the
“ghosts” and’ has arranged that the.
R.M. himself shall see them when they
flit again. Blake keeps some of the
best men of his native police when
Glover, Assistant Resident Magistrate,
goes away on. patrol, and he also
borrows Lorimer’s launch. Meanwhile,
Merton has returned home from
Tarver’s place drunk, and Lesley, hor-
rified, has mm out into the niglitf fallen
unconscious and been taken into
Turner’s hut. Loana, who has seen
this, goes to Merton, and when he
wakes, pleads with him to keep her.
He orders her to go. Lesley suffers a,
bout of fever, recovers, and tells Mer-
ton that their day of settlement has
come.
CHAPTER XXI.
Devils in the Likeness of Men.
THE surface of Akupaka Bay was an
opalescent mirror in the soft light of a
pearly dawn. A warm blush tinged the
summits of the sombre green hills; but in
the village and over the swamps and the
jungle the morning mists still lingered. The
cool air was alive with the first mysterious
sounds of an awakening world. In the
village the people slumbered.
A small outrigger canoe lay offshore,
moored with a rattan cable to a spear
thrust hard into the shingle. There was
food in the canoe—coarse arrowroot cakes,
a few bananas, smoked fish and a bundle
of green cocoanuts.
A small boy crept out. of one of the out-
lying huts, and lowered himself to the
ground. His legs were like misshapen
pipestems, his stomach was distended, his
eyes were bright, beady and full of cunning.
Except for a string girdle he was nude; in
the hanging lobe of one ear was a stick
of trade tobacco; the other held a metal
matchbox. For a second he stood by
the ladder, casting quick glances around
him; then stealthily as a shadow he darted
to the moored canoe. Cautiously he drew
the cockle-shell craft inshore, scrambled
aboard, and with infinite care cast off.
For half an hour or more he lay huddled
in the bilge, while the ebbing tide carried
the canoe seawards. He cocked an eye
over the gunwale, watching the village as
it came slowly to life. Then he sat up and
with quick strokes paddled the canoe
hither and thither apparently on no definite
course. Now and then he stood up, balanc-
ing a fishing spear in his hand, his alert
eyes riveted on the water. Slowly the
skinny right arm would be drawn back,
would stiffen a little, then swiftly the spear
would descend, and a shrill, triumphant
cry would escape the small boy’s lips. There
was nobody about to pity the madness of
the small fisherman; nobody to see that
invariably he hurled his spear at a non-
existent fish.
All the time the drift of the tide and
his own aimless paddling carried the canoe
further and further away from the village.
One by one other canoes put off from
the shore, and soon the sea was dotted with
the little craft. The small boy had now
manoeuvred to a point opposite Laubogi.
He looked back at his fellow fishermen,
and, apparently satisfied that they were in-
tent on their own affairs, tossed the spear
into the bottom of the canoe, and with
quick, powerful strokes propelled the canoe
forward towards the Government station.
It was noon when he tied up and marched
boldly into the reserve.
A muscular brown arm reached out from
behind and gripped him.
“What now', small boy?” boomed the
voice of the guard.
“Peace, fool!” retorted the lad with im-
mense dignity. “Let me pass quickly, lest
“Ho, Sergeant!” roared the guard. “Here
is a fighting man from Akupaka who calls
me fool. Shall I spit him upon my
bayonet?”
Sergeant Babaka appeared on the ver-
andah of the barracks. He seemed to be
pondering the matter gravely as he came
over.
“Let him go, Kadoa,” he decided with
evident reluctance. “He is but a bush
cockroach, fit only to be”
“I would have words with the big fella
Gavamani,” shrilled the now thoroughly
annoyed small b'oy. “Give orders that
this pig of a Kiwai delays me not, lest Mis’
Rileki should put him in the chain-gang.
And you also,” he spat out viciously.
“I am the bearer of a message. Matarari
is my name, and I am the son of the son
of Sabadi. Great will be the wrath of
Mis’ Bileki when”
Sergeant Babaka released his hold on the
small boy’s ear. “Later your belly shall
be filled with bullumacow, and also rice,
and to-night you shall sleep in my house
upon a Gavamani blanket,” he promised
suddenly.
“la, Sergeant!” exclaimed the small
suddenly mollified. “It is good! More-
over, it may so happen that the magistrate
will give me tAVO bob.”
Blake Avas at his table. He looked up
curiously when Matarari, preceded by
Sergeant Babaka, marched into the office.
The small boy clicked his' heels together
in imitation of the police, thrust out his
stomach, and threw a gracious salute. Then
taking out a matchbox he opened it care-
fully and deposited a split betel-nut upon
the table. After which, with solemn face,
he stepped back and stiffened to attention.
Blake raised his eyebrows at Babaka.
“The sign, Taubada,” the sergeant said
softly. “From Sabadi. To-night there will
be ghosts in Akupaka.”
* * * *
Akupaka village lay deep in sleep, the
tormented, uneasy sleep of a devil-haunted
Stone Age village. The air was still, humid,
stifling. It was one of those opaque Papuan
nights, inky-black, starless, that portend the
breaking of the monsoon.
From the sea came a faint, purring noise,
so faint indeed as to be scarcely audible.
The sound died away. There was a pro-
tracted silence, then the bow of a dinghy
grated gently upon the beach. There was
a whispered command, and seven shadowy
figures disembarked and melted into the
night.
P>lake and his police had descended upon
Akupaka.
They moved stealthily in Indian file, with
rifles slung, Babaka in the lead, the right
hand of each man touching the shoulder of
the man in front, keeping to the track
above high-water mark.
Presently Babaka halted. “This is the
place, sah,” he whispered. “There is cover
in the grass.”
“Good, Sergeant,” Blake answered. He
turned his back to the village, and under
cover of his jacket examined each man’s
rifle carefully.
“There is to be no shooting,” he enjoined.
“Unless I give a signal by blowing upon a
whistle. Is it understood?”
“It is understood, sah,” one man
muttered. Blake observed that the voice
sounded shaky. He pressed Babaka’s arm.
“Keep a tight rein on Asiabo, Sergeant,”
he muttered. “The fellow’s getting windy
already.”
Soundlessly they crawled into a clump
of high lalang grass that bordered the track,
and lay prone, waiting. Behind them was
rotting jungle, trackless forest, oozing
swamp; before them, the sea, sweet, clean,
making muffled music on the beach.
An hour passed—two hours —and still
they lay there, scarce daring to breathe,
waiting for what must come. Then, mingled
with the familiar night noises of the jungle,
there came another sound, faint and in-
distinct, a gort of rustling like the move-
ment of leaves stirred by the wind.
“They come, Taubada,” Babaka mur-
mured. “They come —these devils of
Akupaka!”
The police were shuddering now; and
Blake heard the click of cartridges being
thrust home.
“Keep the men in hand, Sergeant!” he
hissed. “If any man shoots without orders,
I’ll blow his head off!”
He himself could hardly suppress a start.
He strained his eyes into the darkness. As
if by magic, perhaps a hundred yards away
six spectral figures rose out of the ground,
formless as dream figures, glowing with a
dim light, and they seemed to writhe rather
than walk along the ground.
Every nerve taut, Blake stretched for-
ward, and his fingers found the butt of his
automatic slung under his left armpit. The
police were quivering, and uttering little
whimpering sounds like frightened pups.
Terror, bom of their age-old superstitions,
was clutching at their hearts.
“Steady, my lads!” Blake breathed. “For
God’s sake hold ’em, Sergeant!”
Nearer and nearer came the ghostly
figures, each form now distinguishable from
its fellows, each bathed in flame, each
shockingly enlarged by the darkness.
“From Kabasi they come, my brothers!”
whimpered Constable Asiabo through chat-
tering teeth. “Devils they are in the like-
ness of men; spirits from” He broke off
with a groan as he felt the point of Babaka’s
bayonet pricking him between the shoulder-
blades.
“Silence, fool!” the sergeant grated. “Or
soon the spirits will clamor for you also!’’
“They are to pass freely, these devils,”
Blake hissed. “They are to go as they have
come, from the darkness to the darkness. It
is an order!”
The spectral figures came abreast of the
cowering police, moving swiftly, silently.
Their forms were wrapped in glimmering
shrouds, their faces were blurred and grey-
white; the eyes were glazed.
The police covered their faces and
crouched trembling in the grass. Asiabo
commenced to sob incoherently, and again
Babaka steadied him with the point of
his bayonet.
The apparitions flitted by; they were in
the village among the huts; then, miracu-
lously, they seemed to fade away and melt
in the air.
Blake stood up, rubbing his cramped
muscles vigorously. .
“My eyes have dwelt on terrible things,
quavered the thoroughly terrified Asiabo.
“Shut up, you ass!” said Blake in a
normal voice. “If that man bleats again,
Sergeant, wooden him!”
He lit a cigarette. The match held in
his cupped hands flickered on his face.
Wonderingly, the police saw that their
taubada was laughing.
“Squa-a-d, ’shun!” barked the sergeant.
Instantly the police stiffened. “Light torn!
Kweek ma’ash!”
He joined Blake in the rear.
“la, Taubada!*’ he growled with great
satisfaction. “We be men —you and I.”
* * * *
Long into the night Blake lay awake in
the cockpit of Tod Lorimer’s launch, deep
in thought. Towards morning he fell asleep,
to be aroused, it seemed almost immedi-
ately, by the hand of Sergeant Babaka.
Blake stripped and dived overboard, and
for ten minutes he plunged about vigor-
ously in the iridescent water. A quarter of
an hour later he entered the rest-house.
“Let Sabatari, the village policeman, be
brought,” he ordered, seating himself.
“The girl Loana is already abroad,” Bab-
aka told him. “Her father, she says, is
overweary and sleeps.”
It seemed to Blake that his henchman s
right eyelid fluttered ever so slightly as he
volunteered this information.
“Bring him, Sergeant!” the magistrate
commanded briefly.
Babaka grinned. He nodded to two hefty
constables who guarded the door, and de-
parted on his errand.
A few minutes later Blake heard the
sound of a scuffle, a hoarse voice dribbling
blasphemous protests, and Sabatari, kicking
and spluttering, was hurled through the
open door.
He sprang to his feet, a blaze of ferocity
lighting his face.
“What name this fella?” he screeched.
His face changed subtly as he became aware
of Blake’s presence, and he relapsed into
sulky silence. ,
“It is in my mind, Sabatari,” Blake
opened mildly, “that you have news for me.
Do I think aright?”
Sabatari blinked. His wicked old face
assumed instantly an expression of aggrieved
surprise.
“News, Taubada?” he exclaimed blankly.
“There is no news save only that alligators
have taken a pig.”
“My friend,” Blake cut in pleasantly,
“make haste, and think. To-day I have
overmuch work to do.”
Sabatari shot a swift glance at the white
man from under lowered brows, and he
shifted on his feet uneasily.
“Taubada,” he began, “I no savee.”
“Iron him, Sergeant!”
The wrath in the magistrate’s voice made
Sabatari jump. For a moment he looked
wildly about him, his mouth opening and
shutting in speechless desperation. He
turned raging to the door. Two armed men
stood guard there. He dived for the open
window, but Babaka thrust a thick fore-
arm under his chin, and threw him expertly.
For half a minute two powerful brown bodies
threshed about on the floor, making the
flimsy frame shake; then there was a met-
allic clink, a drizzle of profanity, and
Sabatari, a look of baffled rage and bitter
(Continued on page 51.)


To Mark Linen
CASH’S NAMES are desttnccive*
neat fadeless and durable^
Actual Sue,
Style No. 6
£J3nV2jlLtLamA,
Prices 5*2 doz. 7/6 f 6 do*. 5/-, 3 doz. 3/8
SOLD BY LEADINC DRAPERS..
Write Tor Name Style Circular tc*
J. CASH Pty.Ltd.
85 Cubit} St. .Richmond, Melbourne
CASHS NAM
(gsITD
WASHING
RIBBONS
AS NEW
AFTER
REPEATED
WASHING"
SOLD BY
LEADING
DRAPERS
POST FREE
1929 “RIO RITA”
THE POPULAR SUMMER
SHOE.
In All-white or Beige
Morocco. 16 different
fittings.
w
IfSlacnaufiht
C/JiW Shoe Stores Gtd.
MAIL ORDERS 135 KING STREET
~7hp cenfpe of Queen s/onc/&
■Cy/| c//sLngc//sf>&c/ Soc/a/ Life.
%o\t\
BRISBANE
Magnificent Ban-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal «j
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cole
running water and Electric Fans m
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780 — 10 Lines.
ŵ
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] C[?] 8100for [?]
Buckley c-Nunn, [?]ted.
Bou[?] so M[?]
Mrs. Norman Brookes, who wore blacK
chiffon patterned at intervals in red and
fawn and a black straw hat lined under the
brim with small flowers of nasturtium hue,
was among the comfortably dressed at Flcm-
ington on Saturday, for it was distinctly
hot. Most women feared to rush into filmy
covering too suddenly, and the ensemble
mode was favored. The Ohauvel lady, who
was accompanied by her General, looked
attractive in a frock of mixings of brown
and w T hite in crepe de Chine allied to coat
and felt hat of dark fawn. Mrs. George
Blackwood chose navy and white, and Mrs.
John Winter Irving black and white. Mrs.
Irving's daughter, Mrs. G. Heath, sported a
light brown three-piece suit. Mrs. lan Mac-
Donald (Gertrude Dix that was) featured
the new red, and did the lawn with her
flag-lieutenant. Mrs. Ben Chaffey’s bright
blue and white spotted gown was worn
with a matching coat. Dr. G. R. Plante’s
wife was cool looking in ensemble of
lime and white, and Mrs. Ivan Gutmann
was tailored in lightweight tweed of pale
cocoa tone. Marjorie Kimpton was there
receiving congratulations on her just-an-
nounced engagement to Aubrey, son of the
late John Gibson and of Mrs. Gibson, of
Toorak. Mrs. L. R. Buxton, in dark del-
phinium blue, was the most envied of women,
being owner of the winner of the October
Stakes. The attendance was not remark-
ably large, and not very dressy. Parasols
appeared, but they were not of new design.
Lieut.-Governor Irvine’s lady rang up the
curtain on the Arts and Crafts Society’s
exhibition. The show marks an advance in
the quality and variety of exhibits, and it is
evident that the selection committee set
a high standard. H'and-woven linen articles
are given prominence, and a loom operated
by a skilled worker demonstrates how it is
done. Miss E. H. Butchart is the outstand-
ing exhibitor in this section, with a blue and
white quilt in conventional design. Another
working exhibit is that of Merric Boyd,
the potter, and Mrs. Henrietta Walker
shows how wonderful rugs may be fashioned
out of pieces from the rag-bag. She was one
of our pioneers in the making of hook-rugs.
Reproductions of antique furniture are
exhibited by several workers. Mrs. Alice
Newell and Amy Fuller, makers of stained
and decorated wood articles, show some
attractive screens. Michael O’Connell has
a display of garden-seats, sundials, fountains,
crazy pavements and the like in a natural
setting of Elizabethan mode. Before step-
ping therein one glances at the soft toys,
of which Mrs. Grant Taylor’s native bears
are delightful examples. Original in design
are the beautiful Noah’s Arks of Phyllis
Parks-Smith. The Batik section is particu-
cularly good, local work being supplemented
by the efforts of associates in other States.
Painted china, leather goods, dainty needle-
craft and an unusually interesting collection
of etchings, woodcuts and book-plates make
up a show well worth seeing.
Blanche Stephens, on her way home to
Adelaide after a visit to a sister in Papua,
was entertained at tea by members of the
Women Citizens’ Movement, Mrs. Brito-
marte James presiding. Miss Stephens is
hon. sec. in S.A. of the Women’s Non-party
Association, which is endeavoring to interest
women in public questions. One of its
achievements is the appointment of two
women as members of the Aborigines Advi-
sory Council, and it has selected a feminine
candidate to carry its banner in the next
State elections. Miss Stephens discoursed
upon the difficulties of the association’s task.
St. Kilda .Town Hall housed a compre-
hensive show of our native flora last week,
conducted by the Field Naturalists’ Club.
Westralia, thanks to the air-mail, made the
bravest display in variety and color, being
represented by , such brilliant blooms as the
crimson-and-black desert-pea, pink and yellow
everlastings and maroon and green kangaroo-
paws, with some beautiful blue flowers to fill
out the range of hues. Our own Grampians
supplied heath and other roseate and white
blooms just now making gay the mountain-
side. Queensland sent a few exhibits and
S.A. a decidedly good collection.
An effective group was made up of spidery
little ground orchids, including several
varieties of green, a brown orchid named the
Bird, and many delicate white and mauve
specimens. How enthusiastically the wild
flower responds to cultivation was demon-
strated in several sections devoted to trans-
planted and carefully nurtured plants, the
solitary waratalx on show being garden-grown.
Good business was done in sales of nursery-
raised blooms in pots. A particularly allur-
ing side-line was an array of microscopic
slides of botanical specimens and insects,
which enabled one to observe, among other
marvels, the palpitations of the heart of a
water-flea. School-children found the flea’s
internal economy irresistibly fascinating.
There was also a show of admirable water-
colors of Australian wild flowers by Amy
Fuller, supplemented by the Shell Co., which
exhibited the colored plates made to illus-
trate a booklet shortly to be issued by the
firm.
The Lieut.-Goveruor’s lady went to Mal-
vern Town Hall to open a sale-of-work for
the Gentlewomen’s Aid Society, which does
its best to find purchasers for the wares of
125 stragglers. Prizes are given for the best
exhibits in all sections, and the standard is
high all round. The society will fill orders
for anything from a Christmas cake to a
child’s knitted jumper. Olive Davies, the
secretary, can be communicated with at her
home, 6 Teunyson-avenue, Caulfield. _ The
society hopes soon to be able to establish a
depot in the city.
The Albert Miller home, Moonga, Toorak,
wore a festive air last week when a “bring-
a-gift-buy-a-gift” party benefited the Aus-
tralian Board of Missions’ enterprises. A
charming interlude was the dancing on the
green sward of daintily-clad maidens from
St. Michael’s Girls’ School and Fintona.
Pupils from the C. of E. G. G. School served
the tea and cakes.
A luncheon given by Mrs. Barry Thomson
at Cliveden Mansions last ’week served as a
birthday reunion in honor of Mrs. P. H.
Lock, of Werribee, and a celebration of the
coming-of-age of Dr. and Mrs. Thomsons
son Jack, who is at present doing a country
tour of N.S.W. with the Muriel Starr co.
Frederic Bentley, of the “Show Boat,” depu-
tised for the absent son and heir. Ihe
hostess, whose leaf-green straw hat topped
attire of biscuit-hued lace and chiffon, shared
with Mrs. Lock the flowers brought by many
of the guests. Mrs. Lock’s draperies of navy
blue were allied to a,large hat of the same
shade.
Members of the Uni. Association and
Women Graduates’ Association assembled
300 strong at the Lyceum Club the other
night to hear Dr. Demarquette, who dis-
coursed about music, illustrated with songs
by his wife, Madame McArden, helped by
Elsie Fraser at the piano. Alice Smith spoke
some appropriate verses.
Broothorn pictures here Mrs. Norman
Gadsden, whose mellow mezzo-soprano voice
is often heard
at charity
gathe rings.
Encouraged by
the kindness
of the critics
arid on the
advice of her
teacher, Mrs.
Harold Brown-
ing, she is
bound for Lon-
don, to become
one of Plun-
kett Greene’s
students, and
maybe she
will visit the
Continent in
search of
further know-
ledge. During
her absence
her husband
and young
family will remain at Grong Grong with
the grandfolks. It is possible that Mrs.
Smith may later join her daughter overseas.
Mrs. Gadsden will give a farewell recital at
the Assembly Hall on Monday, making a
feature of French songs.
The Victoria League boiled a specially
big kettle at the last of this year’s monthly
gatherings in the cosy club rooms. Mrs.
J. S. Fraser headed the bunch of hostesses
who poured out the brew, and Prof. Kenneth
Bailey supplied intellectual provender in an
address upon the relations of the Empire
and the League of Nations. The Mitchell
lady grasped' the opportunity to put in a plea
for books and magazines for the League’s
Bush Library, the shelves of which are in
need of replenishment.
At her third recital Madame McArden, in
a pink and gold frock, sang some quaint
songlets by Poulenc, descriptive of and
addressed in turn to a camel, a goat, a grass-
hopper and some aquarium specimens, The
recital, which embraced examples of ancient
and modern classical and romantic song,
commenced with an aria from Purcell’s “Dido
and iEneas.” Beethoven’s “Song of Repent-
ance” and the cavatina from “Der Frei-
schiitz” also figured on the programme.
Posies and sheaves of flowers were handed
to the singer and her accompanist, Els;e
Fraser. Violinst Edouard Lambert played
a sonata by Locatelli, and Ysaye’s “Poeme
Elegiaque.”
Mrs. Robert Knox, as president of the
Toorak-South Yarra branch of the Alfred
Hospital Auxiliary, served tea with music
at Greenknowe for the bevy of helpers. The
hostess wore a deep blue coat over a figured
silk frock, with a hat of light straw. She
was aided in her hospitable duties by her
husband and her schoolgirl daughter Rose-
mary. Millicent Osmond and Dawn Harding
sang to accompaniments by Ida Scott.
Bishop Stephen, as acting-warden of
Trinity College, with Mrs. Stephen, enter-
tained guests on Saturday afternoon in con-
nection with the T.C. mixed doubles tennis
tournament. The hostess gave greeting,
wearing a gown of deep biscuit color with
a straw hat in a warmer tone, and daughter
Phyllis introduced a gay note with a crim-
son hat topping a white and red floral silk
frock. Bishop Armstrong, Chancellor Mac-
Farland, a bunch of canons and their respec-
tive wives, an archdeacon with his life-part-
ner, some profs., also attached, numerous
medicoes, and other intellectuals \Verc among
those who accepted invitations.
The cafe chantant for the Women’s Hos-
pital building fund at Buckley and Nunn’s
was engineer-
ed by two of
ou r foremost
charity work-
ers, Mrs.
James- Alston,
the president,
and Mrs. J. J.
Brenan, of
the executive.
Broothorn
here pictures
Mrs. Brenan,
whose interest
in the hospital
covers 26
years. She has
an even longer
record as a
friend of Sr.
Vincent’s Hos-
pital. She is
head of that
i n s t i tution’s
Linen League,
whose mission it is to keep the lmen-press
well stocked. To help in that direction Mrs.
Brenan gives a dinner-dance at Scott’s each
year. She has also for many years _ been
a member of the council of the Fairfield
Infectious Diseases Hospital. Her daughters,
Jennie and Eileen, are well-known teachers
of dancing in this city.
The opening of the cricket season was also
celebrated at the Uni., Mrs. A. Roberson,
wife of Dr. Robertson, of the Board of Con-
trol. being chosen to unfurl the Uni. club’s
pennant.
Rupert, eldest son of the Louis Slioo-
bridges, of New Town (Tas.), came over to
wed Sara Georgia, third daughter of Mrs. A.
E. Walkeden, of Armadale. Only relatives and
a few old friends were invited. The hand-
some bride was dressed in wheat-colored
lace with a leaf-crowned straw hat of the
same shade. Her sister Olivia ’maided in
flowered chiffon shaded by a pale green felt
hat with a glint of silver.
Mervyn Skipper, chief of The Bulletin’s
Melbourne staff, has just welcomed a book.
It owes its being to a series of letters sent
to a small daughter in Australia while her
parents were in foreign parts. The young
person so approved of the tales dad wove
around' the weird animals of Borneo, that
under the name of “The Meeting Pool” they
have been collected to amuse others. R. W.
Coulter, wdiose sketches arc known to readers
of the Woman’s Mirror, is responsible for
the illustrations, which picture many
creatures to be met with in the Zoo, and a
few, such as the slow loris, which will be
new to many readers. A learned prof.'s
judgment of “The Meeting Pool” was
summed up in three words: “I loved it.”
And many others, old and young, will echo
the sentiment. The book should prove
extraordinarily popular as a school prize.
An actor from overseas got a shock the
other day. He was strolling up a city street
when a fair motorist halted at the side-
walk beside him and asked if he wasn’t
So-and-so of such-and-such company. He was
So-and-so, and, feeling flattered a-t recogni-
tion, he admitted his identity. “Well,’’ said
the lady, tartly, “I- —I think you spoil the
piece.” Saying which she stepped on the
accelerator and departed.
The George Landridges’ daughter Marie
has returned to her parental home in
Toorak after a holiday in the Straits Set-
tlements and Penang, sailing back by way
of Colombo. It was her third visit to the
East, and she noticed several changes since
her previous sojourn. In the modern F.M.S.
or S.S. home, usually a two-storeyed concrete,
brick or stone bungalow, an open lounge
takes the place of the formerly popular
verandah, and shutters are replaced by win-
dows. All the latest labor-saving domestic
devices are installed, reducing the number of
servants required, though Chinese and Tamil
boys are not difficult to procure. The fine
hill settlements, the latest of which, Fraser’s
Hill, about 60 miles from Penang, has re-
cently been made easy of access, greatly
impressed the traveller. Australia isn’t very
well known in Malaya, which still imports
oranges from Jaffa and fruits of all sorts
from California.
A flapper got all the attention she was
looking for the other day by taking the
afternoon air in Collins-street wearing rolled
socks on bare legs, browned to _ match the
hose of the moment. An expensive fur-coat
brushing nude knees made the effect a bit
rococo.
The Navy, in accordance with time-
honored tradition —and a very useful tra-
dition, too —has found that its business
upon the great waters will require it to
steam into Port Phillip in time for the
Melbourne Cup season. The Australia and
Canberra will head the flotilla that will tie
up around Station Pier for the race week.
C. D. Pratt, at time of writing lying seri-
ously injured near Tammin (W.A.), is a
pioneer of commercial aviation and aeroplane
construction in Australia almost by
dent. He was a training instructor in Egypt
during the war, and on demobilisation snapped
the chance to secure several tons of ’planes
and ’plane parts very cheaply, with which
he planned something in the engineering and
aeronautical line in his home country, .Maori-
land. Delayed in Melbourne on his way
home, he decided to venture in Geelong. His
first workshop was a ’plane case, its site
the back yard of his boarding-house. He
tried joy flying first at a guinea a flip, and
thus attracted the attention of Senator
Guthrie, the first Victorian to use a ’plane
regularly for travelling on business and the
first M.P. to fly to a session of Parliament,
there to record a vital vote. Pratt next
linked up with the Gordon Institute of Tech-
nology, and was instructor of Australia’s
first class in aeronautics. He received Gov-
ernment encouragement and soon established
’drome, hangar and shops at Belmont, Gee-
long. Until his crash on Saturday last Pratt
had not had an accident or even a forced
landing while flying; his only ’plane mishap
was when a cow ate part of a wing-cover at
Queenscliff early in his commercial flying
career. J. D. Guthrie, involved with Pratt
in the Tammin smash, is the young son of
the man who gave Pratt so much assistance
in his pioneering.
At the week-end a window space in one
of our emporiums devoted to woollen and
fur toys drew the public gaze from the study
of chiffons and summer millinery. The most
realistic dogs, cats and rabbits were there in
all sizes. There were most companionable-
looking Persian kittens, pups of all breeds
and white bunnies as whimsical as the one
Alice met in Wonderland. But the fashion-
ers of such delights don’t serve the young-
sters alone. A little while ago our most
up-to-date maidens carried a dog bag under
their arms, change, vanity-case and such
being contained within the bow-wow’s body.
Now there are nightdress bags in the form
of poor Fido. A full-sized reclining Pekin-
ese may now occupy the place on one’s couch
of the beribboned sachet, the silken nightie
being tucked away within its anatomy.
White rabbit bags can also be obtained, but
they look more like a tea-cosy than any-
thing else.
The slump in wool is a very general topic
of conversation among women these days,
perhaps because Adam, seeking a reason for
the fall, blames Eve. But while the cost of
manufacture is so high and the shopkeeper
can ask half a guinea for a perfectly hideous
nightie of flannelette —mostly “ette” —the
sex can’t be blamed for buying a cheaper
garment of better cut and one that at least
has a shine, however artificial, to recom-
mend it. Woollen stockings, though they
are expensive, would be more popular for
winter wear if they didn’t so often become
rough after the first wash. It’s reckoned
better business by most to wear two pairs
at the same time of modestly-priced and
more attractive and comfortable near-silk.
The woolgrowers might learn something by
pricing at retail shops imported and local
made women’s winter lingerie, dress materials
and coats.
Facing Alfred-square, which is on the
parade overlooking the sea, is a picturesque
green and white cottage with primrose cur-
tains and a fenceless tiled verandah. This
is our latest addition to the resorts of bridge
players. Mrs. V. Johnson, a Melbournite,
who lived for some considerable time in
India, is engineer of the venture, and she
looks forward to the time when the rendez-
vous will have the pleasant social atmo-
sphere of the London bridge clubs. The
cardrooms within are as attractive as the
exterior of the cottage.
The dozen superb drawings which Norman
Lindsay did to illustrate “The Quarter-
master” have been reproduced in two-tone
ink on art paper, and are now on sale at IHE
Bulletin’s chief office, Sydney, and at all
branch offices. The complete set of one
dozen drawings costs only 25., and to put
country subscribers on the same footing as
those of the cities, the set will be sent post-
free from the head office to any address in
Australasia.


LOWEST PRICES IN AUSTRALIA
NO BETTER VALUE OBTAINABLE
ẁ
Fine Quality Dia-
mond Ring, with
diamond-set
“step” shoulders
set in platinum,
£25
Diamond Ring,
with diamond-set
shoulders,
£l2/10/-
Fine Quality Dia-
mond Ring, set
in platinum,
£45
The “Solitaire”
Diamond Ring,
set in platinum,
£25
Diamond Ring',
set in platinum,
£35
Fine quality Dia-
mond Ring, set in
platinum,
£65
Diamond Cluster
Ring, set in plati-
Diamond P'"",
with diamond
shoulder set in
platinum, £25
Diamond Ring-,
with diamond
shoulders set in
platinum, £5O
Smaller from
£2O
Calibre Cut Dia-
mond Ring, with
oblong-shaped
diamonds set in
shoulders,
£l2O
Others from
£37/10/-
Two-diamond
Ring, with dia-
monds' set in
shoulders, £3O
Circle Ring, set
with 25 brilliant
cut diamonds.
Best value in
Australasia,
£lB/18/-
The goods illustrated are of high-grade quality and
offer the best value obtainable. A comparison of
price and value is invited before purchase.
®Hin. Brummoub & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
K.
i
v w
5*
ẃ
A visit to either our Sydney or Melbourne Wallpaper Showrooms not only
means seeing the latest and really Artistic Wallpapers—you’ll find there is
Educational Value in the various displays, and our Staff have instructions
to help clients in every way possible. There are great possibilities with
our Wallpapers, and the Homelover who is striving for the very best in
Interior Decoration would find a visit to our Beautiful Showrooms both
profitable and enjoyable.
antitiiiiftiiißii
1 JOHN
'muiifiHiiiiiQ
&SONI
nllllllllllllllllllll
lUlllliiiutjiiiiiiip
-
pT'S-
-391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
PAINTERS
DECORATORS
A REAL HELP FOR YOU
p/m Nil* 1 ,?
u/CRKffi
Mtrn.c£ s
BOON
A
fisSfCZS!
pR g?*4 T, T«sN
| N TEW“ i y“
TOOLS
MATERIALS
INSIDE WORK
CALCIMINING
PAPER HANGING
WOOD FINISHING
FLOOR FINISHING
OUTSIDE WORK
PRICE
THE PURPOSE
OF THIS TEXT-BOOK IS TO EDUCATE MEN
TO BE FIRST-CLASS JOURNEYMEN, HOUSE-
PAINTERS AND DECORATORS.
1216
POST
FREE
NO MATTER HOW GOOD YOUR WORK, YOU CAN DO IT BETTER IF
WELL INFORMED.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
TECHNICAL BOOKSHOP,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
ẅ
DEPARTMENT OF
OVERSEAS TRADE
w
For further particulars
and cards of invitation
apply to the British
Trade Commissioners,
Sydney or Melbourne


The COMMONWEALTH LIFE (Amalgamated)
ASSURANCES, LIMITED.
JAMES S. INCH, F.A.1.1., General Manager.
Authorised Capital - - - - £500,000
Paid-up Capital ------ £150,000
Annual Income Exceeds £140,000
Payments to Policy-holders Exceed £60,000
Every desirable form of Policy issued in the following departments:—
LIFE, ENDOWMENT, AND GUARANTEED BONUS POLICIES.
PERSONAL ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS, WITH NURSING AND HOSPITAL BEN Eh ITS.
INDUSTRIAL ASSURANCES.
All Ordinary Policies subject to Guaranteed Interim Bonus.
E. H. HIGGS, Secretary.
REGISTERED OFFICE:
The Block, 424-30 George Street (between King and Market Streets), Sydney.
ẁ
Experimenting
How much a year do
you waste in unneces-
sary Experiments?
Cut Waste and
Advertise with a
“Result-Bringer”
Che Celcsraph
BRISBANE
Has proved itself for
over 57 years a good
“Result-Bringer” for
all Advertisers.
Che telegraph
newspaper Co. Ctd.
Queen & Elizabeth Streets,
Brisbane.
Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: HOLD
EVERYTHING.
ROYAL: MOVIES AND TALKIES.
CRITERION: LOMBARDI. LTD.
PALACE: IT PAYS TO ADVERTISE.
OICK ARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
TWICE EVERY DAY— 2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I c. WILLIAMSON, LT D.,
*'• MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
Commencing Saturday Next,
ROSE MARIE.
ROYAL:
JOURNEY’S END.
ING ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
WHOOPEE.
HOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
NORMA TALMADGE as
THE WOMAN DISPUTED.
Also see and hear
MOLLY AND ME.
With BELLE BENNETT.
Legal Notice.
THOMAS LYNCH DECEASED.
DURSUANT to a Decretal Order of the
L Supreme Court of New South Wales in
its Equitable Jurisdiction dated the sixta
September 1929 and made m a Suit ( o.
7568 of 1929) intituled “In the matter ot
the Estate of THOMAS LYNCH late ot
Narrandera in the State of New South W ales
Laborer Deceased (who died on the second
of March 1926) between Public Trustee
Plaintiff and Margaret Jones Defendant
whereby the following inquiries were directea
to be made namely: Whether James Lynmi
the brother of the above-mentioned Pestat i
Thomas Lynch mentioned in the will ot tin
said Testator survived the said Testator and
whether the said James Lynch has since died
and if so who is his personal representatn e (it
any) in New South Wales and whether
Charles Lynch the brother of the said t estator
mentioned in the said will survived the said
Testator and whether the said Charles Lynch
has since died and if so. who is lus personal
representative (if any) m New South A-a s
and who were the statutory next-of-kin ot
the said Testator at the date of his death
and whether any of the said statutory next-
of-kin have since died and if so who are then-
personal representatives (if anyi Vli,
South Wales NOTICE IS HEREBI
GIVEN that all persons claiming to he
entitled under the said inquiries are to send
by post prepaid to'the undersigned or to
the Public Trustee of New South Wales at
Culwulla Chambers Castlereagh Street Syd-
ney in the said State so as to reach them
or him on or before the fifteenth day ot
November next their full Christian and sur-
names addresses and descriptions and tub
particulars of their claims or in default
thereof they will be excluded from the benefit
of the said Decretal Order unless the Comt
or a Judge thereof or the Master in Equity
on application otherwise orders Claimants
are to attend personally or by their solicitoi
before the Master in Equity at the Supreme
Court Elizabeth Street Sydney on iVlondaj
the 25th day of November next at eleven
o'clock in the forenoon being the time
appointed for adjudicating upon the said
claims A Claimant not residing m Neu
South Wales must send with particulars ot
his 1 claim the name and address of a person
in New South Wales to whom notice of tlie
clciiin enn be sent.
DATED this twentieth day of September,
T 2 W GARRETT, CHRISTIE & BERNE.
14 Martin Place, Sydney,
New South Wales,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
3d
PRICE
Contains everything a woman needs to know
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The Governor and Lady Goodwin gave a
dinner at Government House to the Premier
and Mrs. Moore, Mr. and Mrs. J. H. S.
Barnes, the R. M. Kings, H. E. Sizers, J. C.
Petersons, Godfrey Morgans, E A. Ather-
tons, Neil Macgroaty, Miss Macgroaty, Col.
Campbell and F. Ryder.
Their Exes, went to the races, Lady Good-
win in blue and white crepe de Chine with
blue hat and blue and mastic sunshade. Mrs.
Blair wore black satin bcaute; Mrs. J. H. S.
Barnes, red and mastic; Mrs. Arthur Clarke,
blue and white; and Mrs. Cadell Garrick,
also blue and white. Ella O’Shea chose rose-
pink silk celanese.
St. Colomb’s Hall had a carnival for the
church —an affair of sketches, plays and
dances. Beryl Telford and Gwen Campbell
gave “Square Pegs” and the Macfarlanes per-
formed a doll dance. Estelle Dent and
Dorothy Huxham, Lawrence Johnson and S.
Ballinger put on a scene from “The School
for Scandal,” and “The Rose” and “BcnPeep
and “Boy Blue” were also staged. Nell
Douglas Graham contributed a musical mono-
logue, and Mary Ivessel and Ivath Radford
recited.
There was a bridge party for the Hush-a-
Bye-Baby stall at the Nursery Rhymes Fete,
held in a setting of many-hued gerberas at
Albert House. Molly H'illcoat, Lorna Black-
Icck, Minty Barry, Audrey Ashwin, Royale
Journeaux, Betty Collin and others were
responsible. Commander and Mrs. E. S.
Mutton, Mrs. H. L. Archdale and Mrs. Addis
were, players.
The Press Institute has started monthly
lunches. The first was held at the Can-
berra hostel. Darker, of the Chamber of
Commerce, ex-Westralian _ Agent-General
James Connolly and Madeliene Clark were
guests of honor. Mr. Darker spoke of
journalism in relation to commerce, and the
knight from Perth was breezy on- the subject
of journalists. Mrs. Lavis, wife of the pre-
sident, wore black mariette over roses.
Col. and Mrs. Craven welcomed the guests
at the Trocadero Ball for the Comforts Fund
of the 49th City Forces camp, to be held
this month. Mrs. Craven was in blush pink
and silver, with a blue flower on the shoulder.
Col. and Mrs. Lorenzo, Winnie Cox and
Capt. Such were dancers.
Lieut.-Commander James Mulcahy, son of
the T. Mulcahys, Brisbane, took Edith May
(“Tiny”) Brosnan to wife in St. Stephen’s
Cathedral, Archbishop Duhig doing the job,
assisted by Dr. English and Father Hum-
phries. The bride, only daughter of ex-
Inspector M. Brosnan, East Brisbane, was
arrayed in bridal satin beaute. A Honiton
lace veil lent by Mrs. T. Macguire was worn
with an orange blossom wreath, and white
roses and lilies of the valley were carried.
Eileen Mulcahy and May O’Rourke attended
in apple-green, with apple-green lace crin
hats and posies of flame sweet-peas. Lennons
saw the feasting.
IC. M. Dunn (Vic.) was married to Thelma
Ham in St. John’s Cathedral. It was a very
quiet wedding, after which bride and ’groom
left for the South, where the nest will be.
A bronze bust, by Daphne Mayo, of the
late Godfrey Rivers, one of the founders of
the Art Gallery, has been presented to the
Gallery by Mrs. Rivers, who in making the
bequest said she was prepared to give £2OOO
as soon as a suitable building was procured
for the housing of Brisbane’s pictures and
other art treasures.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The Hunt Club Ball was held at the
Glenelg Maison de Danse. Over 400 were
there, and those who took part in the two
hunting sets of 16 each wore the traditional,
costume, the ladies in long white satin habits
looped up on one side, scarlet Eton coats
with pale-blue revers, and lace jabots, pow-
dered hair and black plumed Gainsborough
hats. Mrs. W- T. Mortlock, our pioneer in
the matter of hunt balls, looked the best.
As the result of much rehearsing the Lan-
cers were danced with) the grace of a
gavotte, though his Ex. and Lady Hore-
Ruthven, who took part, were rather doubt-
ful about their own efforts. President E.
A. Brooks and his wife danced with the
vice-regals. Corn and scarlet poppies decor-
ated, Avith a brush-fence here and there,
and festooned scarlet horseshoes.
At the Hunt Club races at Morphettville
Mr. and Mrs. Brooks entertained at lunch-
eon and afternoon-tea. His Ex. saw the
Cup run and presented the trophy. High
Court C.J. Adrian Knox accompanied him.
Mrs. Brooks looked \yell in almond-green
ring-velvet with a ballibuntal- hat to match
and a marmot fur-coat. It was fine in the
afternoon, but there Avas rain in the morn-
ing. Mrs. Lapthorne, wife of the master,
tempted Providence in a pretty mauve flow-
ered chiffon frock, but winter garb was
the general wear.
The Glenclgites are Aery disappointed that
the Government has refused to allow the
Australia and Canberra to anchor off their
suburb. The Glenelg girls feel that it is
an injustice th&t the Port Adelaide damsels
should ahvays be scoring over them with
the sailors.
There was a garden fete at Wykeham boys’
preparatory school, at Belair, to raise money
for improving the school grounds. Attractive
stalls were set under the trees, and Mrs.
Ronald Angas, avlio ran the afternoon-tea,
assisted by a number of pretty girls, Avas
kept busy.
George Whinncn has been awarded the
Melrose prize for portrait painting by judges
Hans Hcysen and Leslie Wilkie. Mr. Whin-
nen has also had a still-life study purchased
for the Gallery.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Centenary celebrations are rampant. The
band contestants commenced the doings with
a flourish of trumpets, and Fremantle made
an early bid for fame with a landing pageant
on the Esplanade, where transplanted shrubs,
blackboys, gum-trees and other native foliage
made a realistic setting for the historical
events enacted. The G.-G., Sir William
Campion and the Canberra’s commander,
Captain Massey, were received by Fre-
mantle’s Mayor Gibson and Dr. Battye, and
Lieut. Hatten, with officers and ratings of
the R.A.N. Reserve, presented the scena. A
fireworks display brightened the port in the
evening.
Capt. Massey planted the first tree of the
avenue of red-flowering gums in . King’s
Park to honor the celebrations committee.
Then the Mayor took the spade, and repre-
sentative citizens followed suit. A. J.
Lovekin, who chairs the park board, pre-
sented each member of the centenary com-
mittee with an inscribed silver trowel.
Brilliant sunshine and a riot of spring
models marked the Hunt Club races at Bel-
mont Park. Lord Stonehaven and our own
Governor were there, and were welcomed by
D. D. Harris, whose wife sported an ensemble
of Asiatic and powder blues, with harmonis-
ing head-piece. The regular punters and the
hunting crowd joined forces for the occa-
sion. Among those on the lawn were Mrs.
David Walsh, in a tiered peach cliarmeuse;
Edna Downing, in a putty suit; Miss P.
Spencer, in greens that matched the foliage;
and Gertie Mitchell, in bois-de-rose. Mrs.
Murphy wore black, and Molly Atkins navy
blue.
After hibernating for some months Green
Room Club members broke forth with a
cabaret at Temple Court, where Dulcie Cole
and lion. sec. Wilkins did the receiving.
In addition to the numbers by the T.C.
ballet, Mavis Epstein, Toodles Dunn, Edna
Spark and Mr. Cannon entertained with
some cheery items, and supper was served on
the balcony.
Herewith Emily Ware, the Education
Department’s chief instructor of physical
training for girls, who organised the demon-
stration given
by 7000 child-
ren at the Oval
to mark the
centenary.
Miss Ware
has studied in
England, Scot-
land, Norway,
Switze r 1 a n cl
and Italy, and
was trained in
English folk-
dancing at the
Cecil Sharpe
school at Cain-
bridge. She
holds every
conce i v a b 1 e
award for
swimming and
life-saving, and
was made an
Honora r y
Associate of
the London Life-saving Association for ser-
vices rendered to the cause.
Craigmore, the town home of the De
Pledges, housed a delightful dance one
recent eve. A flag-decked marquee was
erected on the lawn, and airy peach-blossom
massed the ballroom, where the host and
hostess, the latter in trailing black lace,
welcomed the guests, assisted by their daugh-
ter in diamente encrusted white georgettes.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The O’Grady took the chair at the yearly
summing-up of the Child Welfare Asso-
ciation. A healthy credit balance was shown
and it was reported that clinics had been
established at Burnie and Ulverstone. The
City Council is erecting a clinic, too, near
the Town Hall. Mrs. E. A. Waterworth
and Mrs. Robert Hall were added to the
executive, and all the office-holders were re-
appointed.
A northern wedding of recent date was
that of Alice, second daughter of the J. 11.
Reycrafts, of Beaconsfield, to Lance,
youngest son of the late Lorenzo Moore,
Devonport, and Mrs. Moore, at Holy Trinity,
Beaconsfield. The bride wore primrose geor-
gette with cornflower blue hat and blue satin
shoes and carried a posy of orchids and ferns.
Her sister, Mrs. H. Pullen, of Melbourne,
attended in green, with hat to tone, and her
youngest sister Greta, in ivory crepe de
Chine, carried a white satin bridal cushion.
The wedding-tea was spread at the home
of the bride’s parents.
The Nat. Fed. and the A.W.N.L. joined
forces to welcome the Priminister’s wife
when she visited Launceston with her hus-
band. Mrs. G. G. Pullen, for the N.F.,
handed the visitor a basket of primroses and
purple pansies, and Mrs. A. W. Monds, for
the League, produced a posy of similar
blooms. Mr. Bruce accompanied his wife,
and political speeches by him and Senator
Milieu flavored the tea and cakes. Launces-
ton’s Mayoress, Miss Osborne, was one of the
listeners.
AT THE BACK OF THE NORTH WIND.
Darwin.
The Black Camel looked in several
homes last month. D. Gordon, of the Hotel
Victoria, was one of those to go. He was
71, and he and his twin brother, who died
last year, were teamsters on the old
Palmer diggings. The family founded the
town of Gordonvale, Queensland. George
Buttle died a few days afterwards'. He was
73, and a native of Cornwall. About 30
years ago he came to the Territory, and
was connected with many of the tin-mines
in ,the Brock’s Creek and Yam Creek districts.
Mrs. Joe Cooper, whose husband was one
of the best-known buffalo shooters in the
North, died at 9 a.m., and was buried at
4 p.m. the same day.
The Government Gazette, which has
been a monopoly of the N.T. TIMES for the
last eight years, is now being printed by
its rival, the Northern Standard, which
was the successful tenderer this time. The
Times, which has been established since
1873, is being reduced from two issues a
week to ohe.


HOW A SHILLING GROWS
One shilling per week deposited regularly in the Common-
wealth Savings Bank will, in 23£ years, reach a total of £lOO
—provided that the deposits are regular and the interest is
allowed to remain in the Savings Account.
Here, however, is the real point. Of the £lOO mentioned in
this example, you deposit only a little over £6 1. The Common-
wealth Savings Bank provides the balance in compounded
interest— over one-third of the total.
Idle money earns no profit. Set your shillings to earning as
well as accumulating.
<flbmmoiiwcaltl) Savinas Banh of Hustralia
( Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government).
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq. :
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the iullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
IT SELLS AT SIGHT.
THE NEW
PROBATE INSURANCE!
Under ordinary conditions £lOOO Probate Insurance costs
the proposer, aged 50 years, over a period of 10 years,
£425/8/4.
The NEW PROBATE policy covers the same
risk for 10 years for £l6O.
Write Pacific Underwriters,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
for full particulars.
0^
s?l*\ 4‘> ,■
rt \j\CP
'^V' 0 V» f*° u
w 6 *'
Paradise Plumes —(Continued from p. 47).
indignation on his face, was hauled to his
feet.
Sergeant Babaka stepped aside and
saluted. The prisoner’s hands were man-
acled behind his back.
Sabatari’s eyes refused to meet the white
man’s. He shuffled his feet and strained
his wrists impoteptly. “I talk, Taubada,”
he growled sulkily.
“Good!” applauded Blake. He produced
notebook and pencil. “Remain within easy
distance, Sergeant,” he commanded, “but
keep your ears closed.”
Sabatari moved an uneasy step forward.
“I am waiting, Sabatari,” said Blake
quietly.
Sabatari wet his lips with his tongue, then,
taking a deep breath, leaned forward and
commenced to talk.
At the foot of the steps Sergeant Babaka
rolled tobacco, his carbine across his knees.
Through the open door came a drift of
words.
“There are fools,” the sergeant remarked
sententiously, “and fools; but Sabatari, who
these many moons has humbugged with
Mis’ Bileki—arid me—is
assuredly the son of the
father of all fools.”
Presently Blake came to
the door. Babaka was up
the steps like a shot. He
went briskly within the
room, and at a sign from
the magistrate took a key
from his pouch and released
the prisoner.
“All right, sah?” he in-
quired.
“I think so, Sergeant. Let
him go.”
Babaka led the thorough-
ly chastened and frightened
village constable to the
door.
“You are without shame,
my brother,” Babaka re-
marked genially. “More-
over,” he added with much
thoughtfulness, “you have
lost a good job—a very
good job!”
CHAPTER XXII.
The Unforgivable
Outrage.
Leslie Merton drew off
her gardening gloves, and
sat down upon a seat built
round a flowering milk-tree.
The garden was riotous
with flowers; a dozen blend-
ed perfumes hung languor-
ous in the air, and sea and
sky were luminously lovely
in the afterglow of the sun-
set. It was the enchanted
hour of the twenty-four.
Once the magic of it had
taken hold of her imagina-
tion; once the wonder of
it had been a foretaste of
Paradise. A sudden tem-
pest of emotion ravaged
her, and tears blinded her
eyes. Thoughts came tumb-
ling into her brain, poignant
memories awakened within
her. The first happy days
of glamor and romance; the
first fearful questionings, the
corroding doubts, and the
bitter days of disillusion.
Five months ago! Five
months since she had sta-
tioned herself at the rail
overlooking the forward
well-deck, seeing her vision,
dreaming her golden dream!
She rose dispiritedly and
went within the bungalow.
Her husband had bathed and changed. He
was lolling in a deck-chair, a “sundowner”
in his hand. He raised the glass as his wife
passed, and pledged her ironically.
“I have an appointment with friend
Turver to-night, Les,” he announced easily.
“Mind?”
“Not in the least,” she answered.
She entered her bedroom. Her husband
came to the door, hesitated for a moment,
and followed her in.
“When are you going to be sensible,
Les?” he asked. “This pose of yours is
beyond a joke. I’ve apologised, I’ve abased
myself before you, eaten all sorts of
humble pie. Damn it! For a month past
you’ve been holding me at arm’s length.”
His voice became stern. “You’re humiliat-
ing me beyond endurance. Even the niggers
are laughing at me. Can’t you be reason-
able? Can’t you be fair?”
Lesley sat heavily upon the bed. So
there was to be another violent scene, an-
other bitter quarrel.
“I am trying desperately to be fair, Hal,”
she said. “To be just. What are you
doing to help me? Ask yourself what you
have done to atone for your miserable
treachery, your incredible”
“What the devil do you expect of me?”
he cut in harshly. “Your standards—your
prejudices, rather—are absolutely beyond
me. Your conceptions of life are stupidly
childish. Miserable treachery, indeed!
What drivelling nonsense! What does it
signify if a fellow gets a little merry now
and then? What does it signify if he—he
—damn it all, Lesley! Come down to
earth. Remember that you’re a woman,
not a silly kid!”
Lesley sighed helplessly. Once again dis-
gust gripped her. He didn’t understand; he
“Nearer and nearer came the ghostly figures, each form distinguishable from its fellows, each bathed in flame.”
never would understand, because he hadn’t
the slightest visible notion that there was
anything to understand. It was absurd to
associate him with a moral sense. She
found herself studying her husband with
an odd sense of detachment. How could
she have been so mad as to weave those
wonderfu l , romantic, idiotic dreams about
“You promised me, almost on vour knees
that you would i imit your drinks. On how
many nights have you gone to bed sober
since the Lorimers left? You promised me
almost with tears that you’d give me
companionship and understanding and—
and love”
“I do love you, Lesley. Surely to God
you know that!”
“That is not love, Hal, it’s—it’s vileness.”
Her voice quivered, but she went on un-
falteringly. “New Guinea is beating you,
Hal. The 'malign spirit of the country,’
you called it. You were right. It is cor-
rupting your white man’s mind, poisoning
your white man’s understanding. It is
destroying you body and soul.”
Merton stared at her.
“Nerves!” he declared sourly. “Tropical
neurasthenia brought on by taking too
morbid an interest in your soul. Either
that”—he added nastify—“or you’re like the
rest —working me for a trip South.”
Lesley winced.
“Please go, Hal,” she said. “I wish to
dress.”
“Go ahead and dress, then,” he snapped
irritably. “I’m not stopping you. For the
Lord’s sake have done with this senseless
farce!”
He was vividly conscious of her as she
sat there, so wan, so lovely, so desirable.
He would gather her into his arms, sweep
her off her feet, compel her to admit her
* 1, • r , , ~ ,
• i■ ■ ' % su en P assion for her throbbed
’ puses.
Leskry got up and stamped her foot
Ive told you before, Hal,” she said m
level tones, “and I shall not tell you again,
that I’m conscious only of a feeling of
repulsion*towards you. I feel soiled, humili-
ated degraded ”
‘ He made a quick step towards her, biting
his lips . ’ h
“Don’t touch me!” she blazed. “I’m in
deadly earnest. You take me on my own
terms, and when I’m ready, or not at all.”
“Tlnn’t Q li+ilc” '
“Ryou toTolest me. nothing
will persuade me to remain with you.”
Merton’s cheeks grew hot with resent-
ment; fury and chagrin blazed 1 in his eyes.
He was sorely tempted to defy her, to call
her bluff. She was playing with him, stall-
ing him off, amusing herself by seeing
exactly how much he would put up with.
Women were like that—alternately flout-
ing and inviting, beckoning, rejecting. They
liked a battle of wills, but they loved to
be mastered. TJiey liked their men to
be
“Let me pass, please!”
Merton hesitated. His hands opened and
shut, and he was boiling with indignation.
She looked at him coldly, impersonally. He
turned his back in irritation.
“Save your heroics, my dear,” he growled.
“I’ll buzz off!”
He walked to the door, then stood and
glared at her. “You’re going too far, young
lady,” he said, anger rising thickly in his
voice. He slammed the door behind him.
She heard the tinkle of glassware, the
hissing of a siphon, and very softly she
bolted the door.
* * * *
“Boy!” the angry voice bellowed again.
“By gad, I’ll boot you )f
you don’t get a move on!”
“Let the tea wait, Gadu-
weli!” Lesley called from
her room. “Get shaving
water for Taubada first.”
She heard the man in the
bathroom stamping and
swearing under his breath.
She heard Gaduweli knock
timidly at the bathroom
door, heard it open, then
there was a' yelp of pain,
followed by an outburst of
profanity. She heard Gadu-
weli scuttle back to the kit-
chen. Lesley slipped on a
wrap and went out on to
the verandah.
The deep blue waters of
the bay caught the rays of
the rising sun and flashed
them back like giant reflec-
tors. Merton came out.
knotting his tie.
Lesley saw him give a
slight start, and he leaned
forward, craning his neck
towards Akupaka village.
“Curious!” he exclaimed.
“There’s a small vessel of
some sort anchored off the
village.”
“A trader or recruiter
from beyond Kabasi,” Les-
ley suggested indifferently.
Merton went into his
room and presently return-
ed carrying a pair of bin-
oculars. He steadied him-
self against a verandah post
and gazed long and earnest-
ly towards the village.
He whistled softly, and
turned a questioning glance
upon his wife, surprise de-
picted on his countenance.
“Lorimer say anything
about a projected trip to
Akupaka the last time you
saw him?”
Lesley shook her head.
“Nothing whatever.”
“Dam’ funny!” Merton
commented half to himself.
“That’s Lorimer’s hooker.
What the deuce is he up
to?” He turned again and
examined the anchored
launch through his glasses.
“I suppose you’ll be
spending the week-end at
Gabubu,.as usual?” he flung
over his shoulder.
“As usual—yes, Hal.”
“H’m!” Merton grunted.
“I’d be interested to learn what has brought
your friend Lorimer out of his district.
will you inquire?”
, , i i * v. - r* ■ •+ a
.?, he stoea look f hun Curiosity, merged
Wltb a fam !\ sh adow of uneasiness, was
wrd J en unmistakably on his face
They were at breakfast when Gaduweli
mentioned diffidently that the Gabubu
launch was under way. Merton grasped
lds binoculars and rush( f d tbe bead of
steps Lesley wondered why lie was
so disturbed and anxious. He had never
before displayed the slightest interest m her
Wend,
( Continued on next page.)


.In Ladies Hands
HERE is magic in the
'featherlike lightness of
a Shelley teacup. English
Bone China, made nowhere
but in a few square miles
in Staffordshire, and the
Shelley workers’ 75 years
of continuously inherited
craftsmanship are the secret
of this fairy loveliness. The
name of Shelley under every
piece guarantees genuineness
•. —
Ask to see the latest
SHELLEV
Tea Sets - Nursery Ware
Coffee Sets* ly LucieAttweu
Morning Sets &Hilda Cowham
Dainty White Domestic Ware
• China * Jelly Moulds
IM CASK
iilil
WRITS
W.MIATH
. asa
LARENCE *T»
New Way Stops
Dandruff.
Grows Hair.
Six out of eight are bald or grey at 40, yet very
few need be. The hair roots can be stimulated to
new life very quickly ,by a new scalp-invigorating
preparation known as “Vi-Glo.” This acts on the
growth and color cells much as rain acts on a
parched plant. So long as the hair roots and color
glands are not dead (and they rarely die), “Vi-
Glo” will shov? remarkable results, growing new
youthful hair and restoring color to fading hair.
Ask vour chemist for a 3/- package of “Vi-Glo”
to-day, or send 3/4 for outfit to Vi-Glorient Co.,
Kembla Building, Sydney. Satisfaction guaranteed.
. \ vmq&ulco /•* s*o*tsm*h
rub /r //v
101
ZMtBIK
In Your Home
At home and at work Zam-Buk is
needed every day. Children are always
cutting their heads and knees, house-
wives have their painful burns and
scalds. Workers in a score of trades
run daily risk of blood-poison, players
in vigorous games have their bruises
and strains, Zam-Buk is marvellous
to soothe and heal.
Pain and inflammation are quickly
allayed by Zam-Buk. It kills bad
germs, prevents festering and blood-
poison, and grows new skin. Soothing
healing and antiseptic Zam-Buk is
useful for a hundred-and-one skin
troubles. Never be without Zam-Buk
Keep a box in a bandy place!
This great herbal ointment never turns
rancid. It is unequalled for eczema, pim-
ples, bad legs, ulcers, poisoned wounds,
ringworm, boils, abscesses, scalp disease,
piles, etc. 1/6 & 3/6 box. Zam-Buk Med-
icinal Soap 1/- a tablet. All chemists.
IB lII'
Missing Friends.
TONES, JAMES SYDNEY, eldest son of
J late J. C. Jones, Mt. Keira, please com-
municate J. W. RUSSELL, Solicitor, Wol-
longong. Information his benefit.
The patriot
Igl^a^lEDjyj^WDMENj
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep. : H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin’’ takes your fancy, write
to the Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
Winner Last Year
J. R. Jeffrey, Kogarah. N.S.W.
This may be your
Lucky Year !
DON’T DELAY
Buy your
TICKET
To-day
a ND «4o«
3 rd € < 13 < 2
GWlOthenPn
Drawn 16th NOV., 1929
Tickets 1/- obtainable
from Local Agent
or direct from
A. W. YAGER, MIC
Secretary.
Trades Halt,
Sydney
A Saddle with COMFORT Written All Over It
: m
THE “LONGREACH”
YOU DROP INTO IT WITH A
SIGH OF CONTENT
The “LONGREACH” has been designed to give the
utmost comfort to both horse and rider. The flap
is sewn direct on to the seat without the usual skirt,
thus giving a narrower, non-chafing grip. The pads
are different in shape to the regular stock pad, and
run right up almost level with the head of saddle,
giving perfect security for rough riding. The work-
manship and materials are first-class throughout, and
folded leather girth, bevelled leathers and solid nickel
stirrups are included in the price.
£l6/10/-
Freight Free for Cash with Order
to any Station on N.S.W. Railways.
WRITE FOR OUR SADDLERY CATALOGUE.
K’BURRA STOCKWHIPS pitted Belly.
THONGS 7ft. Bft,.
12-plait . . 21/- 23/6
16-plait .. 24/6 27/6
9ft. HANDLES TO MATCH: 16-plait, 17/-;
27/6 24-plait, 19/-. LOADED HANDLES
31/6 FOR 9ft. THONGS, 1/6 MORE.
WALTHER * STEVENSON LTD.
395 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
“I fancy Mr. Lorimer is recruiting,” she
volunteered.
Her voice trailed off uncertainly. She
saw the line of his jaw harden.
“Lorimer be damned!” he snarled. “She’s
flying the Government ensign.” His voice
changed, grew thin, shrill. “She’s full of
men —-armed men. Blake and his blasted
police are aboard—and they’re coming
here!”
She swung round in her chair and stared
at him blankly.
“I—X—don’t understand,” she faltered.
“What—what does it mean?”
“Mean!” Merton’s laugh lifted hysteri-
cally. “Good God! It means ruin! Ruin!
Understand? Imprisonment! Deportation!”
A spasm of fear shook him and his face
blanched. “It means—what doesn’t it
mean?”
Waxen-white, Lesley stared at him. What
humiliation, what degradation overshadowed
her now? What new and dreadful draught
was fate preparing for her? She had a
sudden affrighting memory of hushed voices
in the darkness, mysterious comings and
goings in the dead hours of night... .last
night.
“What —-what does it all mean?” she
moaned. “Speak to me, Hal! Don’t
look”
“Shut up, you little fool!” He got up
and darted to the verandah rail, then re-
turned quickly to her side, He was mak-
ing a mighty effort to control his agitation.
He took her by the shoulder and bent down
to her, looking directly into her eyes.
“I need your help, Les,” he muttered.
“Need it badly. You like Blake, don’t
you? Think a devil of a lot of the fellow?
Don’t lie about it, woman! I’m not blind.
I can”
Lesley’s face flushed vividly. “What out-
rageous nonsense are you talking?” she
blazed.
“And Blake, the poor fool, is half crazy
about you. You’ve got to”—-he gripped
her wrists—“you’ve got to talk him over
—play with the fool as you play with me —
or by God”
“You—you blackguard! You”
He saw her eyes fill first with amazed
incredulity, then with horror. She flung
forward in her chair hiding her face in her
hands. But no tears came, no sobs. How
dared he! How dared he! The vileness!
She was finished with him—finished—
finished !
She lifted her head. Her husband had
gone.
Through the still air there drifted the
“chug-chug” of an exhaust, growing per-
ceptibly louder each moment. She must
think now, clearly, composedly. She must
work out quickly some definite plan of
action. She wondered what offence her
husband had committed the discovery of
which had so terrified him. That it was
something mean, something involving
the systematised tricking of his friend
Stephen Blake, she was certain. His
friend! There was no friendship be-
tween Blake and her husband. There
was no common ground upon which such a
man as Blake and her husband could meet.
Hal had never missed a chance to deride
him, disparage him. Then why had Stephen
pretended that they were friends of long
standing? Why had he and the others
practised so miserable a deception upon
her?
She felt a rush of blood hammering upon
her eardrums as understanding came. They
pitied her, these clean-hearted young white
men! They felt that she called upon their
chivalry, their instincts to protect, and they
had responded after the manner of their
kind. They had deliberately set themselves
out to help her. It was’ all so clear now,
so vividly clear. Stephen was Stephen
was—was sorry for her!
She found herself trembling, and hot tears
brimmed her eyes. A wave of self-pity sub-
merged her; her whole being cried out
against the unfairness of it all. She hated
men—all men.
The exhaust was roaring now. She heard
a crisp command, the rattle of the anchor
chain and then there was silence.
Lesley went into her bedroom. She felt
that this was crisis; that the end of her
world had come.
Hi H* *
Stephen Blake, R.M., was in a decidedly
mixed frame of mind when he stepped
ashore. He had no illusions about Harry
Merton. The man was clever, crafty and
unscrupulous. He was an adept in the
art of covering his tracks, a consummate
bluffer, a dirty fighter. But he had grit—
of a sort. He remembered when, four
years ago, Merton had stood unabashed
before a Judge of the Supreme Court,
charged with abduction. The case against
him had been watertight, yet he had been
acquitted, and he (Blake) had been lucky
to escape a reprimand.
A vague and uncomfortable feeling came
over Blake. His duty was very clear; yet,
almost instinctively, he had decided upon a
course of action which would have filled
him with abhorrence six months ago; which
would result in suspension and dismissal if
knowledge of it ever reached headquarters.
He had, in short, resolved to compound a
felony. To-morrow he would apply for
transfer to another division. He felt that
this, at least, he owed to the Administration
Lesley colored faintly when she greeted
him at the head of the steps. She seemed
embarrassed to see him. He sat down at
her invitation and looked searchingly at
her. She had kept her charm, but over
all a new shadow lay. „ , .
He inquired as to her health. She had
not, she told him, suffered any serious after-
effects from her attack of fever. She spoke
quickly, brightly, laughed a little. Her eyes
never left his face, she was crumpling a
handkerchief in her hands, and in her voice
was an undertone of restraint, of anxiety.
Blake, while he talked, was going over
things carefully in his mind. How best to
manoeuvre Lesley out of the way so that
she would suspect nothing. How best to
handle Merton, so that he would not put
in the fellow’s hands a stick wherewith to
beat him; how best to make certain that
there were no witnesses' to this momentous
interview. That Merton would ruin him,
hound him out of the service, given the
opportunity, Blake had no doubt whatever.
Therefore it behoved him to be very care-
ful.
Suddenly Lesley rose and moved un-
certainly across the verandah.
“I’ll send one of the boys with a message
to Hal. I cannot think what is detaining
him,” she began.
“Pray do not trouble,” Blake enjoined.
“He is very busy, I have no doubt, and
my business is by no means pressing.”
She paused at the door, and, turning her
head, forced a smile.
“Please don’t tell me, Stephen,” she mur-
mured, “that your business with Hal is
something I do not understand.” She
came back to her seat. “What brings you
to Laubogi, Stephen?” she demanded with
sudden earnestness. “Tell me what brings
you here in a hired launch with an armed
guard!”
Blake flushed, but he shook his head
slowly.
“Really, Mrs. Merton”
“Tell me, Stephen! I beg!”
“I cannot, Mrs. Merton. It is a little
matter of trifling importance really, that
lies between your husband and”
“You’re ashamed to enlighten me,” she
choked passionately. won’t
you be frank with me?”
She put out her hands in an appealing
gesture and instinctively he took them in
his.
“I have nothing to tell you, Lesley, ’ he
said very gently. “Save that there is no-
thing that need distress you.”
“You’re shielding him!” she challenged.
“Tell me everything, Stephen.”
Blake shook his head.
“Please, Stephen,”
Before the appeal in her voice, Blake
bowed his head. “Your husband has been
indiscreet, Lesley. I—l wish to protect him,
if I can, from the consequences.”
“Why?”
Blake drew a deep breath. A pulse
hammered in his throat. “Because there
is nothing I would not do to spare you
pain.”
A sudden light flamed in her eyes, a
light that kindled an answering flame in his.
A voice drawled: “Very pretty! Very
pretty indeed! Forgive me if I—er—in-
trude!”
(To be continued next week.)
Candles.
If one man hold a candle to the moon
And venture puny praise, we stand and stare
In widening circles,t_ finding this thing tan'
And new-revealfed. We grow wise so soon.
And this is still our privilege and pain,
New disillusionment and old delight;
We judge eternal God by one man s light,
And find Him kind, or vain!
W.A.
ETHEL DAVIES.
Gypsy Days.
When the west winds fall asleep,
And the gentle sea-winds wake,
Rippling radiant coves and reaches,
We shall journey to the beaches
Where the shining ripples break.
Light of foot we’ll roam again,
Putting worldly worries by,
Where the brush-flower, wine-red, blushes,
And a happy song of thrushes
Rises sweet and clear and high..
Merrymakers, young and old,
1 Quitting all that tames and tires,
Dames and sires and sons and daughters
We shall camp by lustrous waters,
Gather wood and light our fires.
Through the tops of gum and oak
We shall watch the blue smoke climb,
Slowly drifting, softly wreathing,
Scents of burning leaves in-breathing,
Careless of how goes the time.
Ours shall be the shining slopes,
Ours the glades and alleys fair
Where the birds and bees are dwellers,
Ours the deep green mountain cellars
Brimming full of wine-like air.
Such enchantment we shall know
As no other folk may boast,
Free of sorrow, free of sighing,
As the silver seagulls flying
Up and down the golden coast.
Beautiful the dawn shall be,
Beautiful the lights of noon,
Beautiful the sun at setting,
And, when dews the flowers are wetting,
Beautiful the rising moon.
Toil forgetting, we shall go
Where our gypsy-fancy leads,
Sung to (could aught else be sweeter?)
By spme flashing honey-eater,
Or some warbler in the reeds.
When the gentle sea-winds wake
And the west winds fall asleep,
Old and young, a-foot together,
We shall bless the golden weather,
Azure sky and azure deep.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


/\v
"\v ' >v C
'V.>\ r
x v N \V
ZA
2S
7W
w
7
r: 7T>
/
&
m,
54!
2S
3
EEAE>y FCfc THE ROAD
EVERY Nash on the salesroom floor is fully equipped
from bumpers to tyre locks. There are no “extras”
to buy.
Mechanical advantages of the Nash “400” include high
turbulence, high compression, 7-bearing crankshaft mo-
tors which add to power, speed, smoothness and fuel
economy.
Outboard mounted hydraulic shock absorbers cushion
every road. Individually designed springs add a new degree
of comfort. A new steering mechanism provides effortless
driving control.
New beauty without affectation is expressed in long, low-
swung classic lines. Colours are smart and in good taste.
Upholstery, of richest materials, is tailored faultlessly.
There is an elegance throughout comparable only to that
of cars which cost much more.
TOURERS. SEDANS.
Standard Six from £375 £4so* (2 door) £47o* (4 door)
Special Six from £4BO £565* (2 door) £sBo* (4 door)
Advanced Six from £63o* £62o* (2 door) £635* (4 door)
' * Imported Body.
Distributors for New South Wales:
WILLSFORD, LTD.,
132-134 Phillip Street,
SYDNEY.
’Phones: 8W2291 (5 lines).
Distributors for Victoria and Tasmania
RICKARDS BROS. PTY., LTD.,
567-573 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
’Phone: F 3114.
w
Distributors )or South Australia and Broken Hill:
AUTOCARS, LTD.,
58-72 Flinders Street,
ADELAIDE.
'Phone: Central 5500.
Distributors jor West Australia:
ERIC MADDREN MOTORS, LTD.,
996 Hay Street,
PERTH.
'Phones: 85610, 87634.
TASMANIAN DEALERS:
THE SERVICE CO. OF TASMANIA, 56 Paterson Street, Launceston.
E. MEERMANN, 135 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
BENNETT & GILBERT, Best Street, Devonport.
NA
H 400
the World in Motor Car Value
(32-844)


ŵ
Alemite or Alemite Push Type Fittings (the
valves through which the lubricant is forced
into the bearings) can easily be installed on
any piece of machinery to which the old style
grease cups are attached. All that is neces-
ẁ
sary is to unscrew the
old cups and screw in
the Alemite fittings.
The fittings cost only
a few pence.
Plantation and Farm
equipment run much
ẃ
Alan Kippax Bats
I lit
w
Alan Kippax
Autograph .• . 55/-
Alan Kippax
Special Club . . . 45/-
Alan Kippax
Renown 37/6
Australian
Scorer XXX . . 30/-
(Stuart Surridge)
Australian
Scorer XX .... 25/-
We specialise in
Everything for Cricket.
Bats, Balls, Mats, Pads,
Wkt. Gloves, Boots, etc.
GET OUR CATALOGUE.
Alan Kippax,
Director of
N.S.W. Sports
Store, Ltd.
26 Martin Place, Sydney.
Telegrams:
“Sports,” Sydney.
by using a
€4
SAFETY RAZOR BLADE
Made of a special steel with extra keen edges
that last and give more shaves per blade.
For all Gillette and Auto-Strop holders.
Agent for Australia: H. E. UTTLEY,
Margaret House, 282 George Street, Sydney.
Manufactured by Kirby, Beard & Co., Ltd.,
Needle and Pin Manufacturers,
Ravenhurst Works,
Birmingham,
England.
o
<3
T<s>
Ot>
Use q BEARD to shave a dearc/
ẅ
m
rn
w
<'M
mfi
mm
mi■
c.w
<v.w
<ow<
■T*
<y.<
<< /
(.<.<
sss
$< :
Lism
Kg®a
am
Mk
mm
lU9M
\<<
(AX
<AX
CAX
C^s
WITH a handy “Sparklet” Syphon and
box of Bulbs you have the equivalent
of twelve large Syphons of Sodawater
always at hand. There is no fear of run-
ning short—no need to buy sodawater,
when you can make it in a few seconds
from your ordinary water supply—a full
quart of pure, healthful sodawater, for less
than fourpence.
A “Sparklet” is safe and simple to operate.
It provides you with a miniature soda foun-
tain in your own home; and all kinds of
sparkling fruit drinks can be made in-
stantly and easily. Any leading Store,
Chemist, or Hardware Merchant can sup-
ply “Sparklet” Syphons.
“C” SYPHONS
The Popular Quart Size .. 10/6 each
“C” Bulbs . . 3/9 per box of twelve
“C” „ . 1/11 „ „ six
(Country prices sUghtly higher owing to freight charges.)
SYPHONS & BULBS
ICES & ICE CREAM SODAS
A "Sparklet" enables you to
make delicious ice creams in a
household refrigerator.
Write lor leaflet and recipes.
f» lllllimlliltlllllll
Australian Depat and Repair Department: SPARKLETS LIMITED G.P.O. Box 753 G,
Sydney, N.S.W.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.


‘Allenbunys
Glycerine &
Block Current ,
PASTILLES
w
Business Men!
A clear, command-
ing voice means
much to you.
Ensure this by taking
the " Allenburys ”
Pastilles they are
effective and pleas-
ant in use.
Your Chemist stocks
them. 1/- and
1/9 per box.
mmm
t
* AH3IA
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Stree?.. Sydney.
ŵ
Ordeal.
W. CHARNLEY’S
VIVID REPORT OF WHAT HAPPENED OUTSIDE
THE OPERATING THEATRE.
PENNINGTON rose from his desk in
response to the ring and lifted the re-
ceiver from the hook.
“Who’s speaking?” he asked.
It might be anyone; some inquiry after
houses and land, or a ring from his solicitor
about that mortgage of Pullivant’s. Or per-
haps merely Blaney passing along the “good
oil” for Goodwood next Saturday.
However, the voice came as a surprise. It
was feminine, half-forgotten in a way, yet
strangely familiar.
"It’s me, Myra, your wife. I suppose you’re
a bit surprised to get a call from me after
wlmt—-well, so long a time; but as you half
own him I thought I’d better let you know.
Its Ray. He’s in the Children’s Hospital
and they’re operating on him to-day at
eleven o’clock. I’m just going there now,
30 ~~ and the voice began to trail away
as the speaker made to ring off.
Pennington felt like a man who has just
received a douche of cold water. Houses and
land, mortgages, Goodwood next Saturday—
all switched from his mind like the closing
* camera shutter. Ray operated on!
Childrens Hospital! Ray, his wide-eyed,
fair-skinned baby boy!
Hold on a minute, Myra,” he called into
the phone, desperately. “What’s the matter
with him?”
Tuberculosis, they say,” came the whisper
over the wire; and Pennington felt that it
broken by a half-sob. “In the glands
of the throat. No! It’s not my fault, though
it may be some of yours.” This bitterly.
i ? e ? n^ngto n. let that pass; i.n the past lie
had been quick to resent such half-taunts,
a trifle over-quick perhaps; but now he was
too anxious over Ray.
“Tuberculosis! Who is the doctor?”
►She gave him the name of a practically
unknown young surgeon. “I’ve been taking
Ray to him all along. He is a good doctor,
they say.
Good? He might be good, but he, Pen-
nington, would have had a certainly good
doctor one of the older surgeons long skilled
with the knife, even if it had been a fifty-
that was like Myra’s pride ;
shed have died and taken the boy with her
sooner than appeal to him for a penny over
her allowance.
“AH right. I’ll come. Good-bye.”
Replacing the receiver, Pennington twirled
the exchange disc, calling up the young
surgeon who was to operate. But he was
out. Then he switched on to a sporting
doctor with whom he had often shared the
good oil.”
"This tuberculosis of the throat, Doctor —
'what is it? Is it dangerous? I’m speaking
of a child of four.”
“Be in the glands, I suppose,” was the
doctors response. “Well, it all depends.
J here s only one cure—operation Is the
IZ%> far gone? Are the glamls badly swol-
Pennington thought for a moment. Under
the separation agreement between him and
Myra he was privileged to see Ray every
>unday afternoon; and several times of
late, when the child had been wearing a
low-cut jumper, he had noticed his swollen
neck. He had taken the swelling for the
mumps and had asked the boy if the spot
hurt when touched. “No; they don’t hurt,
Daddy, 3 ’ the little fellow had always told
him.
S° that was what it was. Tuberculosis.
He had heard that tuberculosis caused no
pain.
“Pretty badly swollen, Doctor. In fact,
the operation is to take place to-day Dr.
Smyth is doing it. Is he all right?”
“None better,” replied the doctor.
Pennington recalled the esprit de corps
of the profession. Of course the doctor would
say that.
“Is it a serious operation?” was his next
question.
“Well, it’s certainly a major one,” was
the non-committal reply. “You see, the
glands may be much enlarged. Yes, it cer-
tainly is a major operation.”
“Thanks, Doctor.”
Pennington was a trifle breathless when
he reached the hospital, even though he had
come in a taxi. Myra was there waiting for
him under the long verandahs; a rather pah'
Myra, with a strained look in her eyes:
different, Pennington thought, from the' de-
fiant, liot-eyed Myra who had bidden him
go his own way some six months before.
She came to him eagerly. “Dick, I’m so
glad you’ve come. I was afraid you wouldn’t.
They have just taken him in. I didn’t see
him close, though ; I had to stand away so
that he couldn’t see me—it might have made
him “T• In there he went. That’s the
Suddenly from out of the building which
she j nd j ca ted came the shrill, high-pitched
scream of a child.
Myra reeled. “Oh! They’re hurting him.
That was his little voice; I would know it
Amongst a thousand.
Together they listened tensely. But no
more cries came.
r IVnni, ' g ' ton , led to a seal P ; Sbe felt
limp and weak on Ins arm; soft and coni-
plaisant, not defiant and unresponsive like
sbe used to be. And, even though his ears
and brain were alert for more sounds from
the operating ward, he felt somehow the old
charm of her, while his hands grew warm
and tingled as they held her.
“Children often scream like that,” a pass-
ing nurse explained. “It’s just when they
put the chloroform mask over their faces;
but they are off a second after. No, they
won’t let him come out of the anaesthetic
half-way through,” she added with a smile,
With the assurance that all was right,
Myra hardened a little and Pennington felt
her draw away from his arm. The wall be-
tween them was not to be broken down so
easily — there was too much to forgive and
forget.
Pennington rose and began pacing up and
down the concrete paths, exploring, as he did
so, odd nooks and corners of the long ver-
andahs. The place interested him. He peeped
into the door of a long ward; immaculately
elean, with a row of white cots along each
side. In some of them children were lying,
wistful-eyed and patient, as suffering chil-
dren usually are. In others were children,
happily recovering, laughing and talking to
each other across the cots, exchanging toys
and books, or smiling to the white-capped
nurse who played at being their big sister.
Along the wide verandahs bordering the
lawns it w 7 as the same; children everywhere.
Pennington felt his heart open to them.
Children, little children, all akin to his own
boy now lying, as he could picture him, still
and unconscious beneath the surgeon’s knife.
And was the surgeon good enough? A major
operation—why hadn’t Myra told him earlier
so that he could have got a really first-class
surgeon, a fifty- or a hundred-pounds man?
He had that much to spare; and what did
money matter, anyway, compared with his
child’s life!
From where he stood, close by the wall
of the operating ward, he glanced across at
his wife sitting on the seat alone. A pretty
woman, one to be admired. He had loved
her passionately once, how much she never
seemed to be able, to understand. She had
always wanted to be told of it over and
over again, and even then she doubted him.
Those doubts! She had never understood.
She had no real cause to doubt. How 7 she
had hurt his pride ! Not to be trusted ! To
be put through an inquisition every time he
r turned home a little late! The humiliation
of having to explain like a schoolboy! He,
Dick Pennington, who was accustomed to
dictate terms to other men. She had never
understood, and his refusal to patiently ex-
plain always appeared to her as guilt. And
then the quarrel would begin.
The baby in his high chair used to look
at them wide-eyed: even as an infant he
could sense the anger in their tones, and
Mummy usually ended up in tears—all babies
understand tears.
Then a change had come over Myra. There
was a woman, she averred; Miss Kay, the
new typist whom he had engaged. Really
there wasn’t. Miss Kay was one of the
most staid and virtuous of girls, and won-
derfully capable. Her capacity for business
enabled him to leave many things in her
hands whilst freeing him for bigger affairs,
So, rightly, he assured himself, he had
refused to dismiss her. And, anyway, Miss
Kay had a widowed mother depending on
her. So Myra herself had gone—the ulti-
mat urn read that way. He had made her
an allowance, reserving to himself the right
to see his boy every Sunday.
And now this!
He walked back to his wife. “How did
it happen?” he asked quietly. “What does
the doctor think was the cause?”
“Milk, for one thing,” she informed him.
“Or then, again, they say that the rooms
where Ray and I live might have had some-
one in them previously who had the com-
plaint badly; children will play about the
floor, and perhaps he picked it up that way.”
“I see,” he commented slowly. He knew
the flat where Myra lived; good enough
place, expensive, but not a home. Probably
if they had never parted and had kept their
own home this thing would not have hap-
pened.
Myra glanced at her watch. “Half past
eleven. He has been in there half an hour ;
it will be over soon. .
Pennington resumed his pacing. The
operating ward drew him like a magnet.
Standing close to the wall he listened for
sounds inside. But the place had been cun-
ningly designed; it might have been an
Egyptian tomb for all the sounds or signs of
life that it gave forth. And the double doors
were shut tight.
Half an hour gone. It must soon be over.
Poor little kid ; he h»ped they wouldn’t have
to cut him much. He washed he had seen him
before he went in. There was a chance; a
big chance, perhaps.
Suddenly he had a vision. He w r as holding
his boy in his arms; so stiff and still, his
little face so w'hite and his eyes closed, never
to open again. He was taking him away
somewhere, anywhere, so that he could be
alone with his dead.
It hadn’t struck him that way before;
his boy might not get better. And Myra,
v/liat w 7 as she thinking about, sitting there
so numb on the seat alone? Did she also
see that vision? Suddenly a great tender-
ness rushed to his heart. Poor girl, she
was his child’s mother!
There was yearning in her eyes as he
again sat down beside her. She glanced at
her w 7 atch again. “Nearly an hour now,
Dick ; a long time.”
He tried to say something cheerful. Still,
an hour w 7 as a long time when one waited
outside that tomb-like operating ward.
“Talk to me, Dick,’’ she begged. “Say
something; anything to take my mind off
Ray. I can hardly bear the strain.’’
But there was nothing that Pennington
could think of except his work, his business;
that had interested her once when they had
been husband and wife. So he talked of
that and she listened. And the strain lifted
from their minds a little.
Suddenly new drama entered the scene.
Down the cement pathway from the gate a
woman came hurrying; a work-worn woman
dressed just as she had halted in her house-
work in answer to an urgent call. Her
bosom was shaken with sobs as she came
panting along. Evidently she had been
running.
Just past where they sat she began to run
again; along under the verandahs to the
ward at the farther end. A nurse met her at
the door and led her in. Death was waiting
in that ward. Death which calls the young
as well as the old.
Pennington took his wife’s hand. “Don’t
think of it, Myra. He’ll come through .it
all right.”
For a while they sat in silence. Then
the operating ward drew Pennington again.
With his ear close to the wall he listened.
Not a sound. Yet, inside, white-robed doctors
and anxious nurses worked over a tiny still
form; with lancet and forceps and swabs
plucking away the foul disease which threat-
ened to destroy so fair a flower.
Another quarter; and still the doors
remained shut.
An hour and a half came and passed.
From Myra’s seat to the operating waro
Pennington paced to and fro, thinking of
many things, but mainly of how he had failed
in his duty to his boy. Why hadn’t he, met
Myra’s doubts half-way and explained?
Pride! And now his baby had been brought
to this.
In her place Myra sat still. She had two
things in her mind : one a little prayer that
God would bring her baby safely through
his ordeal; the other of a certain woman,
herself parted from her husband, who had
given her advice.
An hour and three-quarters dragged by.
Surely operations did not last so long as
this! Pennington questioned a nurse.
“Not usually,” she admitted. “But don’t be
worried; he’ll be all right.”
“Stereotyped reply,” Pennington thought.
Myra began walking. “I can’t sit still any
longer,” she said.
Dinner time passed. The hospital children,
eagerly hungry, some of them, clamored
joyously for their meal.
The one o’clock whistles sounded all over
the town and some of the children even
went to school again.
“Can’t be long now,” Pennington re-
marked hopefully. Actually he was losing
hope. What was happening insrde those
silent walls?
Myra and he were ‘seated again. She was
crying quietly. All her pride was gone and
she leaned on him.
“I haven’t slept for nights thinking of
this,” she confessed; “I thought I woulu have
to go through it alone.”
“But why didn’t you let me know before? '
he asked.
“Because, Dick—because I thought you
didn’t care. I thought you were too hard.”
Hard ! And he loved his boy so !
The minutes crept on. The afternoon had
come, and still that tomb-like ward sent no
one forth.
Two hours and a quarter. Too long, too
long; no child could stand so much! Pen-
nington felt a mad desire to break through
those clesed doors and demand of the doctors
what they did with his flesh and blood. But
there would be no sense in that. He was
out of it. They were the men who held his
child for good or ill.
He returned to his wife and sat down
again. He noticed that she still wore her
wedding ring. He recalled just how he
bad placed it on her finger; it seemed ages
ago.
Suddenly she stood up and started away.
The operating ward had come to life. The
doors had opened and a couple of nurses
were wheeling out a small ambulance
stretcher on which lay a little shrouded
figure. Then followed two doctors, chatting.
Myra pressed forward eagerly, but the
head nurse stayed her with a smile. “When
we get him into bed,” she promised.
Pennington took the young surgeon’s hand.
“Thank you, Doctor, thank you. I thought it
would never end.”
The surgeon smiled gravely. “Yes, it was
rather long, but we made a clean job of
it. He’s got a hundred to one chance now 7 ,
but he needs every care.”
Inside the ward Myra gazed rapturously
at the still unconscious child. “May I kiss
him?” she begged.
“A dozen times,” said the nurse. “But
he won’t know anything about it.”
Pennington, too, stooped and kissed the
wiiite baby face.
“Now 7 you must go,” said the nurse. “H'e’ll
be all right here.”
(Continued on page 57.)
Do You Know?
I have been to the bush!
The boronia is out, the pink one, the
hairy one.
Orchids are there,
And sarsapai'illa,
And fine maiden-hair.
The ti-tree is breaking,
The white one; the may
Will be out in a day!
The one with pink tips
Is parting her lips.
The hoveas’ branches are studded with
peas
Of violet, amethyst, lode for the bees
Who tumble from wattle, half-drunken
to hive.
Sling, sing for the honey! the world is
alive!
I have been to the bush.
There is clematis rope,
And holly and dogwood
And heliotrope,
Lotus and trefoil;
And. bulrushes high,
With javelins ready to hurl at the sky.
Gold and pink buttonies,
Eyebright and violet,
The sweet tetratheea,
The swainsona pea —
What other country is lucky as we?
Bryony, buttercup, daisy and fern
Have passed on the whisper,
“The world is a-turn!”
The glory of morning, the bright
immortelle,
The jasmine, the inkweed, the small
pimpernelle
Are there—oh, I tell you,
And haven’t you heard
The beautiful message,
The secretive word?
Haven’t you heard how the thrushes
are singing,
Magpies are carolling, bellbirds arc
ringing ?
Currawongs dancing, and furry folk
waking —
Haven’t you heard that the winter is
breaking?
Now must ice fly with the sun on the heather,
Watching the people of petal and feather!
Now must we love with our hearts close together!
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN LUCAS.


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares . . 703,125
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
hD A pTC on Australia, New
** ■**■■*• A ** Zealand, Fiji, Samoa
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking: business.
Reserve Fund
GRANTS
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund ~ .. .. .. 985,000
£2,235,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,485,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.-
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
** should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends- use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE
WH ZEALAND REFEREE
x'HE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CEUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISLAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAL ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World’s Leading
Advertising Agei? .des.
f y HAIR
“ EED
HERE'S
•umy-
ẁ
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
2FCUltms CMCXICAN)
WcUnut StaJAi
’•REMOVES the grey *
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (4/6), 6d. being postage.
ẃ
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to knoic.
Shipping, etc,
lli
.1
Is
U
ill*
Excursions to HAWAII
The Canadian-
Australasian Line
will shortly commence its
Summer Excursion Runs, which,
by specially reduced rates, bring
within your reach an interesting
voyage on a large and modern
liner with a holiday to follow in
Hawaii.
This famous little Island of the
South Seas is a cosmopolitan
holiday centre, world-famous for
its endless Summer sunshine, the
matchless surf of Waikiki Beach,
its tropical scenic splendor and its
carefree languorous life.
Sail by the Aorangi or Niagara (via
Auckland and Suva) on either of these
dates: Noveniber 14, December 12,
January 9, February 6. Excursion Rates:
£75 First Saloon £55 Second
Union Steam Ship Co.,
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
ẅ
w
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
JAVA
(The Land of Eternal Sumwsr).
P OLD BUDDHISTIC AND HINDUISTIC TEMPLES—NATIVE BAZAARS.
} EXCELLENT BIG-GAME SHOOTING. BEAUTIFUL TROPICAL SCENERY.
EXTENSIVE TEA GARDENS. INTERESTING PEOPLE.
Regular monthly sailings by the favorite vessels
“MARELLA” (7500 tons) and “MALABAR” (5000 tons).
Pacific Island Excursions
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Lord
Howe Island, Norfolk Island and New Hebrides.
TRIPS OF FROM TWO TO FIVE WEEKS’ DURATION.
Make your selection now and Book Early.
Apply to
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LTD.
Sydney, Melbourne, -p* Brisbane, Adelaide.
IBSlyiSliliSffi
ms
--
l
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
ŵ
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20.900,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30. 1928, £88,982,585.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
554 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua.
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,P00,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND - 4,200,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL * - - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,678,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE .TUDAII COHEN ( Chairman ) ;
Hon. JAMES ASHTON. M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND; Major-General
the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHVRST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening;- passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR—Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday aftei noon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/C/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHAIM,IS HOUSE.
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart Parker!/!
• Magnlfloant
Fast Passengei
'= Steamsiiijii
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars appIyHUDDART PARKER LI MITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
r- elSflgg
COMFORT
m
■U
A A'
H,»|
it
FIFTEEN magnificent
hotels from Vancouver
to Quebec provide travellers
across Canada with lavish
personal comforts.
As one traveller said re-
cently “ The atmosphere of
your hotels is so different,
the service so complete and
so courteous”
Let our illustrated literature
tell you more of these won-
derful hotels, free on re-
quest to
Canadian Pacific
Railway
247 George Street
Sydney
J
4
CANADIAN PACIFIC
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
ẁ
ẃ
If any illustration in The Bulletin take*
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for tne original.


is
AN OUTSTANDING
BRITISH ACHIEVEMENT
The Sunbeam represents British design and craftsmanship
at its best. You cannot buy a car which will give you a
better all-round road performance or provide greater
comfort over every mile you travel.
Whatever the conditions of climate or road, season after
season, the Sunbeam maintains its wonderful performance
and reliability.
For use in Australia all Sunbeam cars have standard track,
a ground clearance of 9in. at the lowest point, special
springing for comfort over all roads, and a specially large
radiator and fan to ensure adequate cooling under all
conditions.
Full catalogue will be sent on request from any of our
authorised dealers or to the Company’s address as below:—
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.
Export Dept.: 12 Princes Street, Hanover Square, London,
W. I, England.
Cables: “SUBEAMCO,” London.
Head Office and Works: Wolverhampton, England.
AUTHORISED DEALERS:
SYDNEY.
William, Hill & Cameron, Ltd.,
91-97 Flinders Street.
PERTH:
Arthur Bales, Ltd.,
367-371 Murray Street.
VICTORIA:
The All British Motor Co. (Pty.),
Ltd.,
104-106 Russell Street.
ADELAIDE:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street.
Sunbeam
“THE SUPREME CAR ”
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
An Ideal Winter Home—The Most Sheltered Spot on the Harbor, with Private Beach ahd
Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds
and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4| guineas,
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations:, Y 3012 (4 lines).
jt, " ■
■■■■ «s
■1
J 1
f
wm
W.
Mpspj
s
i»
■
K
-
Si^it
•ll* .A
rostecL lAe day they are made
zJfue famous
TfecL Boxof
Chocolates
HILLI
$
ADDRESS - „
CHOCOLATES
162-166 Pitt Stiueet
s vt> n et
5/6. 6/; 10/. 12/6.
20/ and. 30/
w
Outside the hospital gates Pennington and
Myra paused. The sun was shining brightly;
their ordeal was over, and they had come
back to the workaday world and reality
again. Yet somehow they seemed strangely
apart from it.
“You’ll ring up and ask after him every
day?” Myra said as she held out her hand,
Peunington looked down at her. “What do
you mean, Girl? Do you think we are going to
part after what we’ve just been through
together? No! Our boy—he’ll need a
home when he comes out.
Passers-by might have been scandalised to
see a woman kissing a roan to whom she
clung in the public street, but neither Pen-
nington nor Myra cared.
With a song in their hearts they started
once again down Lovers’ Lane.
“By the way,” Pennington remarked after
a while, “Miss Kay was married yester-
day.”
Myra drew a little closer to him. “I dpn’t
really care now. I’ve left that foolishness
behind. But, still, I think I’ll send her a
wedding present.”
Bulldog Blake's Lady.
D.W.O. FAGAN’S
WA ?jwj?7's OLD BLACKBIRDER
CAME TO LOSE HIS EARS.
FKOM beyond a disc of shiny pewter,
rimmed around with a halo of wiry,
white whisker, came a gurgle ; and pre-
sently Old Spence lowered his tankard.
•'Beer’s good,” he said with a satisfied sigh,
‘‘but it don’t come up to the kava we useter
drink down in the Islands.”
It was cool on the bench under the shade
of the great Moreton Bay fig. The golden
wattles were in bloom, and vagrant breezes
touched o.ir faces with scented fingers as
we sat at the little table. The tecoma hedge
that bordered the little inn garden flaunted
its contrast to the blue of sea and sky.
To the right were the river valley and the
line of ridge that ended in the bluff headland
beyond, the white houses and red roofs of
the little port below 7, and the masts of the
schooners in its basin. My eye returned to
the old shellback, somnolent now in the
noon heat.
Pearler, blackbirder, beche-de-mer hunter
and one-time half-buccaneer, what adventures
had been his! Sight and chase of strange
sea-monsters, fierce fights where blacks were
hostile and orgies where they were friendly!
I wondered what sea-cliance had washed him
landward, to fetch up at last in. this quiet
backwater. The Pacific he knew like the
hack of his own hand. Scarce an island he
had not visited.
Mine host came out to replenish our stock
of liquor and I sat back in amazement. The
man’s ears stood out like windsails from the
sides of his head. Never in life did you
see such ears. Huge, red, semi-transparent,
like a bat’s wings, they jiggled as he walked
and wobbled to and fro. Old Spence woke,
twinkled a bhie eye at me and answered
intuitively as the man went in.
ke s& id. “I’ve seed a-many ears.
All kinds of ears. From little shell-like
things to the foot-long ears of island belles,
hanging down wi’ brass an’ chunks o’ bone
till they touch the shoulder-blades. Ah, an’
smoked ears, kep’ in bottles as a souvenir!
And barbecued ears, served up as titbits at
a feast. You never miss ’em till you catch
brst :sight of a man with no ears at all.”
“Tell -me,” I said.
* * * *
The man’s dead now and every scut of
a counter-jumper an’ swab of a mealy-
mouthed sky-pilot is free to sling dirt at
mm But you take it from me, Bulldog
nlake was a man. Not a saint by no
manner o means, but an all-round good
teiiow, who never went back on a friend or
ef a shipmate down. And he didn’t make
uod sick whining about his sins like many
a skipper I’ve known. Five years I sailed
~ . m and ought to know.
"Pirate ? Pirate my foot! ’Tis a lie, I
»ay. Got up by the missionaries an’ traders
who was jealous of his influence wi’ the
natives. Blackbirding, I grant you. But
who wouldn’t? They was paying top price
ror labor them days in Queensland an’
no questions asked, and if you couldn’t get
. our black-ivory peaceable, what was wrong
with knocking ;l few Kanakas on the head
an stowing ’em under hatches? There waS
men down Sydney side—aye, an’ living yet—
that made their money that way, pillars o’
society, that carries round the red bag of
* Sunday and w r as a dam’ sight worse than
fT axe . “ 1S ■ trouble was a wrong sense o’
w nat was his and what was yours; if he
lancied a thing—well, he’d just have to go
tor it. What he wanted he took. A killer?
ai l, what °f it? No law nan in them
parts those days, I tell you; there was
islands where you had to be mighty smart
? n v e .“agger to save your skin. Strong?
I should say so; a stoush from Paikete, as
the natives called him, was like a kick from
wenty mules. The warships of four nations
'as r l iim once for murder, and if they’d
»ot him they’d ha’ hanged him on a lie.
o , m or old Tuala with his battleaxe,
3 “Trr a^e S°t in first with his gun.
Women used to fall to him for a look, wi’
is long arms an’ legs like a spider. White
or brown, twas all the same. He had a
note at most every island he touched at.
tmsy come, easy go, ’twas the way of him.
-vr >, was ket <*ed at last,
o cou „ rse nor’-east from the Navigators
a matter ot two hundred miles, shift due
west, and in three days more you should lift
\; ls a , m \, that’s just a chunk o’ paradise
rrom aloft. Green-wooded downs
t 0 a central hill; and palms, a-shiver
the soft wind, fringed the white beach.
in„ tke thunder of the reef the
c goon was deep and still as a looking-glass,
lhe passage was narrow; it took a bend
•'vjr, wo"t in on the swell, and the coral
1 . c , ie ~ In till you was like to scrape the
pamt from your bilge. There’s few would
a book red try itr bnt Blake knew it like
natives were light-skinned Poly-
•ml..®’ .and the women a good-looking lot.
,‘.? as ok> Huata’s boast that him and his
„„ D „ e had kep’ ’emselves pure through the
iJiov,,! ?•?. mixin g with the folk of other
' s ; Him and Blake was friendly, and
w ~7 as al ways a cargo of copra, shell
1 ~ mar t 0 be P'cited np when we
R was in Sydney I fell in with Blake.
®the world I was, no money an’
«iiin Cl r dl *' 4.1 Chucked out o’ Casey’s water-
Tt * tlle aight before, I was starving.
ov f ,r down Circular Quay. A haze hung
liharbor and it was bitter cold. I
-.a ‘•he suck of the water among the
ua!z’ and was wondering if it wouldn’t be
f. ta. shp quietly from the stringers an’
" t with the tide, when a tall man swung
nummnig to himself. He looked me
back. down ’ went an, turned and came
;; ;On the rocks?’ he said.
‘‘ ‘Aye,’ I answered; ‘dead broke.’
<< a ma te’s ticket?’
“ ‘Second,’ says I.
‘‘ ‘You’ll do,’ he says; ‘come aboard.’
W e dropped down stream and was out of
the Heads next morning, and that’s how I
came to sail shipmates with Blake.
‘You ought to ha’ seen Popoto, old Huata’s
daughter. A maid o’ seventeen or there-
abouts, lissom an’ straight as a willow wand.
Brown eyes, mind you, not black like them
others, no darker than a brunette, with long
wavy hair and a tint o’ copper in it. You
mind the tale of the old Dons that ’way
back four hundred years had their rendezvous
at Manahiki? The island o’ handsome
women, they called it, and some was wrecked,
some was killed in fight and some they stayed
ashore. It must ha’ been to some such
ancestry that Popoto hailed.
“A part of the lagoon was fenced off against
the sharks. There was good swimming water,
and to see her come down with her women
to bathe was just a dream. She’d stand to her
dive, glowing in the sunlight, like a statue
of shining bronze. It wasn’t as a woman you
thought of her; ’twas as a goddess. She’d
come up from the water laughing, golden
skin a-glitter with diamond drops, beautiful
an’ unashamed.
“And what must happen but Blake falls
in love with her! Off his feed he got an’
proper miserable. Broached marriage one
night to old Huata, and came aboard after
with a face like a typhoon. It had been a
shock to the old chief that a mere scut of
a white trader should claim alliance with
a daughter of the old Airikis! Talk about
Burke’s peerage! Why, that girl and the
old man could trace their pedigree back to
Solomon and beyond.
“But didn’t I say Blake was not the man
to take a rebuff? What he wanted he took.
“It was three months later that we dropped
hook again in the old lagoon, with a full
cargo o’ trade. The usual in the way o’
copra, shell and trepang was waiting for us,
and things had got back to the same old
friendly basis. The break about Popoto was
never mentioned. But Blake was biding his
time and no hurry. In the hot, windless
nights, when the air in the women’s quarters
grew hot and steamy, Popoto would come
a-times for a cooling dip.
“Safe in the love of her people, she’d walk
out in the moonlight alone, or accompanied
only by the girl Toto. This was the chance.
Blake took the Nancy through the passage,
with orders to bring to in the open and
wait while he went ashore with Kaka and
a boat’s crew. Kaka was a Solomons native,
black as the ace of spades, who followed his
master like a dog. He had been fixed up
for chief dish at a cannibal spread when
Blake rescued him, and after that he’d have
gone on the jump to Hell and back on
Blake’s word.
“Two nights they went ashore, returning in
the morning, and nothing happened. On
the third night Popoto came to bathe. She
stood black against the moonlight, on the
diving rock, and the men jumped from their
hidey-hole. Her woman was knocked sense-
less and in a moment Blake’s great arms
were around the girl; another moment, and
Kaka had slipped a sack over her head. Then
Blake slung her to his shoulder.
“Talk of the rape o’ the Sabine women!
It must have been a sight to see Blake,
with that sack on his shoulder, long legs
pounding over the shingle, on the way to
the boat.
“One startled squawk the girl let out of
her; but it was enough. A shout arose from
somewhere ashore. Lights streamed to the
landing place. Then there was the grate of
launching canoes, cries of Popoto and furious
curses for Paikete. One or two shots, and
bullets sang wide in the dark. Blake’s boat
had too good a start. It swept alongside, a
sack was hove aboard and, slipping our cable,
we were away before a five-knot breeze that
had sprung up from the laud. We dropped
the canoes in the night, and down wind as
we. Went came the keen of a thousand voices,
wailing for their lost queen.
“When we got to Sydney Popoto became
Mrs. Blake. Did I know what was going on?
I did not. I knew no more what was in
that sack than a dead man. If I had I
dunno that I’d ha’ interfered. It was Blake’s
business an’ he wasn’t a man you’d care
to cross.
“He took a year’s spell ashore. Was he
happy with his beautiful wife? I dunno.
Popoto, I believe, made him a good wife,
but he had to watch her like a prisoner.
Cold she was, and he couldn’t get that love
of soul to soul that a man longs for
“Many women there are that fall to that
caveman stuff; but not all—not Popoto It
was a year later that Blake revisited the
island, and he took her with him. Why I
dunno. Why he ever went near the dam*
pJace again licks me. Popoto was wild
with joy. There was a look in her eye I
couldn't fathom. What was it? Challenge?
' n !J m P • Hope of retribution for the rough-
stuft shed been put to? Mind you, I believe
she was fond of the man all the time, but
would like to see him punished—a little
VY omen are queer.
ri “ We was met at the.beach, friendly as you
like Old Huata rubbed noses with ‘his
daughter, shook hands with Blake and wel-
comed him as . a son-in-law. They’d seen
the -Nancy coming m, and nothing would do
but we must all go up to the village for the
marriage feast. ° or rne
“We got into the Council Rail and then it
happened A roar and a rush from outside
and two hundred armed natives surged
(Continued on next page.)


ŵ
Mr. A. B. Cowell, “Halcyon,” Park Road, Mascot, Sydney, sayS:
“Some months ago I was suddenly seized with a terrible pain across
my back, just above the kidneys. It did not go away, as I thought
at first it would, but, on the contrary, it got worse and I was soon so
bad that I was bent almost double. I was completely crippled and
even at night I got very little rest from the constant pain. I could
not turn over without suffering acutely, in fact, no position was com-
fortable for long. The kidney secretions were affected, being thick and
cloudy with a red sediment. I tried different remedies, but they
gave me no relief whatever. One day a friend suggested I should
take Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and it proved to be good advice
too, for three bottles cured me completely. I feel splendid now and
my recovery is due solely to Doan's Backache Kidney Pills.”
Ten years later Mrs. Cowell says: “My son is still well, Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills having completely banished all signs of kidney
trouble.”
DON’T BE PUT OFF—
INSIST ON DOAN’S
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers.
Foster McClellan Co., Proprietors, 15
Hamilton Street, Sydney.
DOAN'S
Backache Kidney Pills.
PILES AND ECZEMA CURED
BY DOAN’S OINTMENT
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
Eczema Cured.
Mrs. H. Gaskill, Church Street,
Leichhardt, Sydney, says: “For a good
while one of my boys suffered from
dry eczema, but although I tried dif-
ferent' remedies from time to time. no-
thing seemed able to cure this irritat-
ing complaint. Reading an advertise-
ment for Doan’s Ointment the thought
occurred to me to get a pot and give
it a trial. The soothing and healing
effects of this splendid preparation
were noticeable almost at once, and as
I continued with the treatment there
was a gradual improvement until
finally the eczema had completely dis-
appeared. The cure has proved per-
manent. no sign of the complaint hav-
ing returned since Doan’s Ointment
was used. I am a great believer in
this remedy now, and always keep a
tin in the house, and find it invaluable
for cuts, sores and other skin
troubles.”
Two years later Mrs. Gaskill says:
“I am pleased to tell you that my boy
has not suffered from eczema since
Doan’s Ointment cured him over two
years ago.”
Piles Cured.
Mr. George Risbey, Isabella Street,
Parramatta, Sydney, says: “For some
time I suffered from itching and pro-
truding piles. -I was tortured with
this ailment day and night, the pain
and irritation being almost unbearable.
I used different remedies from time to
time, but none of them gave me any
relief, and I was beginning to think I
would never be free of piles, how-
ever, I had the good fortune to get
Doan’s Oinement, and this was the
beginning of the end of my suffering.
The first application gave me ease, nr 1
two pots cured me completely. It G
now six months since I used Doan's
Ointment, and as I have had no return
of the piles since I consider my cure
a permanent one.”
Fourteen years later Mrs. Risbey
Says: “My husband is still free of
piles and lias not been tortured with
this ailment for the past fourteen
years.”
At all Chemists and Stores.
KEEP A TIN ALWAYS ON HAND.
shouting. Blake and I were collared, four
strong bucks to each- of us. The crowd
pushed back an’ made a circle. Can you
■see it? Bulldog an’ me, with our guards, in
itlie clear space, Popoto to one side and the
old chief with the tohunga [priest] on the
other. By kidnapping and marrying Huata’s
daughter Blake had broken the tapu that
hangs around a chief and all his folk. He
had committed sacrilege and must die lest
death and disaster fall on the island and
the tribe. There stood the breaker of the
tapu. Let them hasten ere the doom fall!
“The executioner stood behind the pinioned
man, death-club raised, awaiting the signal,
I was helpless—arms twisted behind me
and the point of a broad-blade spear at my
midriff.
“A gasp, a cry and Popoto was ■ prone,
squirming on the ground to her father’s feet,
She clung to his knees and wailed for the
life of her husband. _ Why should he make
his daughter a widow? You saw the
mental struggle on the old man’s face,’ where
love and superstition fought for mastery. It
was a tense moment. I did not know the
lingo, nor yet what Popoto said ; but either
through her pleading, or because he had a
vision of future kegs o’ rum and cases of
bullumacow from a rich son-in-law, Huata
lifted his hand an’ the man with the club
stepped back. #
' You d ha thought it was all oyer then,
But no. That dam’ tohunga shifted his
ground. It was immaterial, he said. If
Popoto would die for her husband, well an’
good; the tapu certainly must have a life,
and he signed to two men to seize her. There
was a cry an’ a clashing o’ spears. jThe
warriors loved their queen, but the night-
mare of the broken tapu was heavy on them,
“For a moment it looked like a fight, and
even Blake’s guards relaxed their grip. With
a swing an’ a heave of his great shoulders
he was free, charged the crowd like a bull,
reached a corner an’ got his back to the wall,
His revolver was out an’ his eyes blazing,
No good. He might ha’ shot four or five,
but we’d ha’ been downed all the same.
Meantime, there was my own troubles—a
nasty shiver in my innards where the man
with the spear was itching to drive it home,
Through my funk I became aware of a heated
talk between Huata an’ the tohunga.
Hammer an’ tongs they went at it for a
quarter-hour, an’ at last it was decided that
a lesser sacrifice might do. If Paikete would
give his ears as an offering to the gods, he,
the tohunga, would try to satisfy them,
“They performed the operation with his
own jack-knife, and the brutes held his wife
in front of him to see it done. She was white
as death an’ winced with the pain of ?very
cut, while Blake stood like a rock, between
liis guards, an’ never a groan. The blood
started from his lip where his teeth was
clenched on it, an’ at the last slash he
fainted. He came to on a mat in Popoto’s own
hut, his head in her lap. Her tears were
falling on his face, an’ there was that in her
eyes it is seldom given a man to see in the
eyes of the woman he loves.”
Dope.
A DRAMATIC FRAGMENT , BY CHARLES S. GILMOUR.
A RAT-FACED little steward scurried
down the gangway, and threw a
friendly nod to the Customs officer
standing at the wharf gate.
“What, you back again, Harry?” said the
Customs man, shooting out a long arm and
grabbing him by the shoulder. “I thought
y’d left the sea, son,”
11 Me leave the sea?” snapped the little
steward. “Not much! I’m a sailor, I am.
I missed one voyage, and that was enough
for me.”
“In a bit of a hurry to git ashore, Harry,
aren’t you?” asked the Customs man, a
hand still on the other’s shoulder.
“Well, I want to see me daughter—l
ain’t seen ’er f’r six months. Gord’s truth,
I’m on the square, s’elp me !”
The Customs officer pulled him into a
little office, and ran a practised hand up
and down his skinny frame.
“Let’s have a look at y’r belt, Harry,”
he ordered. “Come on, pull it off!”
Whining and cursing, the steward unfas-
tened the pocketed belt from his waist, and
stood holding his trousers with both hands
whilst the Customs man explored the inside
of it. He j grinned as the search proceeded
fruitlessly, and re-fastened the belt without
comment.
The Customs man eyed him for a moment
before he spoke.
“All right, lad,” he said; “you’ve got noth-
ing on you. But you’re taking the stuff
ashore somehow, young feller, and, make no
mistake, we’ll get you!”
“Get !” spat the steward spitefully,
and went on his way.
Apparently without a care he sauntered
along to the nearest hotel and called for
a pint. That finished, he walked furtively
out of the back door, slid through a lane,
and turned into another street. Satisfied
that he was not being followed, he scrambled
into Piti-street, jumped on a tram, and in
a few minutes was knocking at a mean house
in Surry Hills.
A stout, red-faced, untidy woman opened
the door, but made no move to admit her
visitor.
“Y’r daughter’s gorp,” she said abruptly,
“an’ it’s no use' y’ cornin’ ’ere.”
“Gone?” cried Harry. “Gone where?”
The woman surveyed him in silence for a
moment, and her expression softened some-
what.
“She cobbered up three months ago with
Susie and Gay ’Arry,” she replied; “l.a’' the
larst I ’ehrd she was livin’ with Bert an’
’elpin’ t’ sell the stuff.”
The little steward turned a pasty yellow,
and almost fell.
“Gord ! My Alice !” he exclaimed.
“Serve y’ right, y’ silly cow,” the woman
snarled. “Did y’ expect ’er t’ keep meetin’
that lousy mob and not get lousy ’erself?
Bert got ’er to try y’r rotten dope—just
for fun, ’e said —and the rest was easy.”
“But she was only a kid,” the little
steward pleaded. “I was chuckin’ it after
this load —Gord, I was !”
“Well, y’ should ’ve chucked it before!”
the woman snapped, and slammed the door.
“Gord, me little daughter!” the steward
repeated, and walked dazedly down the
street. “And Bert’s had —rotten bad. I’ll
fix them!”
He spent hours journeying from one place
to another, cunningly inquiring in all likely
haunts fob the whereabouts of his daughter.
Luxurious flats, foul brothels and dingy
wine saloons were all tried, and by mid-
afternoon he had established the fact that,
although Alice was “in smoke,” Bert and
the rest of the gang, for whom he acted
as a carrying agent, were expecting him
with a parcel.
Arrangements had worked out so well that
at four o’clock precisely Hapry was in a
city office, arranging with Bert and another
of the gang for the delivery of the parcel
that night. Alice’s name was not so much
as mentioned. Business first.
“At eight to-night, then,” he said at part-
ing, and the others agreed.
Half an hour later, after taking due pre-
cautions against being followed, Harry was
pouring his tale into the ears of Sergeant
Evans, of the Drug Bureau.
“So at eight o’clock,” he said, “Bert and
one of his mates will row past my ship as
quiet as they can. I’m t’ pass the stuff to
them. It’s done up in a waterproof package
with a line which they tie on to a ring at th’
bows of their boat, just under the water. If
they’re hailed by a police launch the parcel
is thrown out, and they just seem dopey
Dago fishermen on their way t’ cast a net.
But you fish that line up and you’ll ’ave
’em with the stuff.”
At eight o’clock the watchers in the police
launch, tossing quietly without lights in the
shadow of the liner, heard a fast launch
approaching.
“This can’t be them,” whispered Evans;
“Harry said they’d be rowing.”
The side-lights of the approaching launch
grew brighter and brighter, mingling in
swaying jewels of light with the golden reflec-
tions from a passing ferry.
Tom, the Customs officer who earlier in
the day had searched the little steward on
the wharf, clutched Evans’s arm.
“She’s towing a boat,” he whispered.
Watch! She’s travelling!”
The speed-launch dashed alongside the
liner, swerved and spun around, then swiftly
disappeared again around the point.
“Look—she’s cast off the boat,” cried
Evans, pointing.
The dark shape of a small boat was nosing
gently up and down beside the liner. With
a splutter of engines the police launch sprung
to life, and in a moment was alongside.
“Nobody here,” called the sefgeant, leaping
into the boat. “But there’s a line overboard
all right, on the ring. Hoist up, one of you !
....It’s fuuny—l’ll swear Harry never
dropped this stuff.”
Holding a torch, which sent a stream of
light towards the dripping line, the ser-
geant watched intently.
A sodden parcel came from the depths and
was lashed alongside.
“What’s that?” cried the sergeant sharply.
“It’s heavy, Sergeant.”
The sergeant leaned over the side and
flung aside the wrappings of the gleaming
bundle.
A white face stared up at them.
“Hell! It’s Harry the steward!” cried
the Customs officer.
Prelude.
When I teas a child of the age of three
My grandfather took me upon his knee
And taught the measures of time to me.
I have the letter they wrote for him,
\Y hen his old hands shook and his eyes were
dim,
And he lay on his deathbed ealm and grim:
“My keys are in the drawer for you.
The ground receipt is made for two.
A funeral like my wife’s will do.
“And see that you replace the fence—
Stone or inscriptions, when or whence,
Are matters of indifference.”
When I was a child of the age of three
My grandfather took me upon his knee
And taught the measures of time to me.
My father buried his father-in-law,
As he had buried my mother before,
As he had buried her mother before;
And added some lettering to the stone
Which stood when my grandmother lay
alone—
I have the receipt of the workers in stone.
The flames were better, my father said.
They told me this when he lay on his bed,
And the grey proclaimed
him dead.
His ashes were east I know not where;
I never could bring myself to care—
I shall always remember him lying there.
When I was a child of the age of. three
My grandfather took me upon his knee
And taught the measures of time to me.
They worked and watched the clock go round*
Themselves the clocks the day rewound--
And what is a clock when it’s under the
ground ?
What are the measures its hands have
passed ?
What if it never were slow or fast?
What is the life of a clock at last?
Time is white and blood is red,
And blood and life are easily shed—
And Time and Love and Hate are dead.
And Will and Hope and Joy and Fate,
And being early, being late,
And being small and being great.
And Art and Hod and Work and Rhyme,
And all we once had thought sublime,
And Heaven and Hell and Law and Crime—
Gods of Heaven and Earth and Hell,
Let your jangling laughter swell,
I have an amusing tale to tell:
When I was a child of the age of three
My grandfather took me upon his knee
And taught the measures of time to me!
N.B.W.
RONALD MCCUAIG.


0
WESTIN CHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
mE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD..
Queensland Agents—HUbiUlss a OllLliCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Ollice —83-107 l'eatberston Street, Wellington
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
I Victorian OHlcc —“Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Airents: Messrs. BLDEB, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
Queensland’s Greatest Advertising Medium,
Ufye
“BRISBANE COURIER"
Carries more advertising than two other Brisbane dailies combined.
“COURIER”
for 6 months,
Ending June 31, *29
Two other Dailies
for same period
—14,216
—13,758 i
Advertising
Columns.
Advertising
Columns.
The “Brisbane Courier" is the largest and most reliable financial,
commercial and home paper in Queensland.
First in Circulation, Coverage, Advertising and Influence.
Published by THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER CO.,
Courier Building, Queen Street, Brisbane.
Syd. Rep.: ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“THE AGE"
Established ISSJf.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
No advertising campaign can be success-
ful if the quality of the product adver-
tised does not contain full value for
the price asked.
If your products can meet these require-
ments, “The Age” will prove a valuable
medium for creating goodwill, and
will considerably lessen the time in
moving them from storage to consumer.
Merchants and Manufacturers of quality
products in ever increasing numbers
are realising the truth of the slogan
“It Pays to Advertise,” and ere direct-
ing their efforts in marketing through
the columns of “The Age” as a neces-
sary medium for business promotion in
Victoria.
Audited Net Daily Circulation
123,533.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Gtfices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
tIK Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter state agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Clk mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
carries regularly a far greater total
volume of advertising than any other
newspaper published in Tasmania.
TT is thus, judged by the use made of
its columns, the most popular
as well as the most powerful of the
newspapers of Tasmania. I
PROFIT by the experience of the
1 leading national advertisers, and
place “The Mercury” first when
advertising is under consideration.
Average Net Circulation, 20,967.
I T
is, undoubtedly, Tasmania’s ablest
and best conducted newspaper.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
What's the matter with you ?
You don't quite knozu what
is the matter with you.
You re just simply
t
i
7
suffer constipation unknowingly. Their
elimination is regular, but always a day or two late.
A DOSE AT NIGHT
WILL KEEP YOU RIGHT.
You should watch carefully for this
condition. It tells of constipation*
and liver trouble. Headaches, dull
eyes, indigestion and biliousness are
further symptoms.
Act at once ! Take Beecham’s Pills,
the most effective method of conquer-
ing constipation. Purely vegetable,
they keep the bowels,
liver and kidneys ■
healthy and regular. '
i
s
~rr v k
v
far
a
py
EVERYBODY SHOULD READ THIS
WONDERFUL WEEKLY MAGAZINE
THIS WEEK’S ISSUE CONTAINS
FREE PATTERN OF BEACH COAT
A HOPELESS PASSION
The Love Story of John Keats.
FAINTING FITS
How to Deal with Them.
A STRIKING KNITTED JUMPER
MODERN CROSS-STITCH
THE CARE OF THE CHILD
3d. Now on Sale. Alt Booksellers, 3d.
k
0°
6 e
AG®
S 6
.***»
,t*UV 9> u ..•••
..•- ,••;'s■ > v **
Ip* ..•* ..•* c*Vnv*


GOLD
WHISKY
LABEL
"f
fIFS
9
✓
!
u/M
nvi 0 *
s*l^
fi!
JfT
o*3
A*
S
L^*»l
fj/i
i/H
iiiitiissiSii
iiiiiUiii.iiß
ẁ
♦ ,/
QUALITY bottled
UNDER.THE SUPERVISION
CUSTOMS
Cb&tom}
