

L7
*a mi
JJJJ jyyj
«
jg^
*
©
<
K
ni
|y
rA p 3
p|ipi
rnwri'
BjPJ
H
m&gm
MM*
im
V
m
K
as#
39W
V.* 0^
tft*
\t\ x° tt
h» VR
S«\w
'. eq
v>«*
uv»
■J.-U
a sw*°
ft 0 .
ove
•peat
c» ct
cO'*
tc
■:-V' !
Sftsg
s® 0
pe°V
tw te .
baW"
• .
CN
b» v S
M
hi® o
s?B-0
tS^S
the 01
iW
«v^ eS
f,\>»
i\W
At £ V
ct"
«i»
V V ■' ,
yaw
\^' c
u-.'
~v.
.
ti®»
pte® 6l0 *
i8»«P
id*®
m
% Bast Par* i
e ? io ei<%&k.
te/4/%0
D ?l Si «.
* H'OuJrf /
S«SS*» «»• Je“ r of , »'S-
»Sv»3:;«s'“ a *«'•"■
(Ur., | tni£ la «s-
tioVi
atis«'
»»"
and
>ow
ab«
c.voc
bot
c\i>i a
v.o
\S*
Atbc
VaS'
v;UV.
ttvg
viaw
[ XX ev
ao&o?
jvtvu
\eU
t\o*
V'"
<6*«
. as
¥»
wt&e®
Vf.tlV
VtSP*°
■S?w
CoUsVK®
r« doW i have
* or £
*e ****
l»^ uom mx : l r 2oc«^ G -
Mass of testimony from users and the action
of the Federal Government of Australia when they
declared “ASPRO” a Necessary Commodity to Combat
the Influenza epidemic that swept over the country, proclaim it
as the greatest antidote ever offered to the civilised world to combat
Influenza, Colds and Rheumatism. Taken at the first signs, 2OR 3
“ASPRO” TABLETS EVERY 3 HOURS, WITH A HOT LEMON
DRINK AT NIGHT, WILL GENERALLY SMASH UP ANY COLD OR
INFLUENZA ATTACK IN 24 HOURS. Just why “ASPRO” does this is
because, when ingested in the system, it is an antipyretic, or fever destroyer, also
an internal antiseptic and' a powerful germicide, while its wonderful power over
Rheumatism is accounted for because “ASPRO” is a SOLVENT OF URIC ACID. Its
germicidal qualities also are a valuable factor for Rheumatism. Living proof is the best
demonstration of the value of a commodity, so we draw your attention to the testimony
published below. It demonstrates “ASPRO” claims to be true. “ASPRO” brings Sweet
Sleep to the Sleepless, relieves Rheumatism in one night—banishes Headache like magic—-stops
Growing Pains—clears out Cold's and Influenza and all their feverish and weakening conditions.
It dispels Neuralgia and Nerve Pains, and soothes the irritable, too.
DON’T FEAR ’FLU, COLDS OR RHEUMATISM.
BANISH THEM TO-NIGHT WITH
ASPRO’
‘ASPRO J WILL NOT FAIL YOU FOR—
HEADACHE
RHEUMATISM
SLEEPLESSNESS
NEURITIS
EARACHE
TOOTHACHE
ALL NERVE PAINS
COLDS
INFLUENZA
FEVERISHNESS
TEMPERATURE
MALARIA
DENGUE
SCIATICA
GOUT & LUMBAGO
SORE THROAT
ASTHMA
HAY FEVER
NEURALGIA
IRRITABILITY
PERIODICAL PAINS
PECULIAR TO WOMEN
ALCOHOLIC AFTER-
EFFECTS
Insist on Getting the Australian Made—,
Ask for ‘ASPRO’!
MINIMUM PRICES:
I2’s (Sanitape
psclccd) i
25’s (Sanitape
packed),
I OO’s (in
Bottles),
OBTAINABLE AT ALL CHEMISTS
AND STOREKEEPERS.
w
w
k.
r l
Toy
t?
0
°/p
£ct
*Q N
sp Er
*V/>
Ht
WLY
mu
cl/^
ft
%
*0
;
•m
ssn
<$
°°fy
dCfj
He
Ur a/
ca
va
r *cfi
:
daf
tea
*>b d
Go uf-
-70
ŵ
The Bulletin
ipahtoVviA oj~ ~ftu &afdwO
Vol. 50.—N0. 2579.
Wednesday, July 17, 1929.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


T HE 1929 LIBRARY CATALOGUE is
now ready, and will be forwarded nost
tree, with full terms and particulars/ on
application to
BY MOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD
424-426 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Good health is wealtli, the only wealth of worth
Ihe health which springs from sound hygienic birth ■
Good health is joy to all who feel its glow ' ’
The purest happiness mankind can know- ’
Good health through life is still the boon’ of all
Who having health, respond to wisdom’s call
Good health comes easy, when we colds endure
In soothing Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure. 9
. Advt.
nm
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence Collenp
100 Russell Street, Melbourne 0 ’
ri hout obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus ar,nh/Jnl
your Muscular Movement System n ,sCK tut "* n *
advertised in the Sydney Uuli.etin
My Name
My Address
SB. ......
ẃ
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron*
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
■
ẅ
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
SN-
H W 3
One oj the most dramatic scenes ever recorded
on /hr screen. From a “Fox’’ thriller,
Jeatunng George O'Brien.
1
. W : 3
When you've feeling’ ‘•down” and “off color,” take
n Jv’ fn' Ve:lk *' lie,i res » stance invites real illness that
may, for a time, put you out of the game.
uwi r f a . m f ot ,. Yeast ancl note t f ‘c lightning benefit!
Headaehej feeling gone; step brighter; a happy
suule; a ppp that makes you feel like whistling the
latest tune! Jnst take a couple of Cream of Yeast
tablets now and know the thrill of having the l__.
all your own way. Any chemist sells Cream of
least at 1/11, 3/6 arid 5/9. Be sure you get genuine
Cream of Yeast, the constituents of which are
presented by leading medical authorities all over the
1 amous film-star- and athletes say “Cream
ot Yeast gives Iron Nerves.”
CREAM^YEAST
is®
Amalgamated■ Laboratories, Kembh Building t Sydney; and all High-,-lass Chemists
#
N>
J#
Ihe Centre of
Progress and
Tasmania’s
Prosperity.
EX f MINER is , the onl y dai] y newspaper pub-
turaV Co Launce ® ton - Rahway, Shipping, Agricul-
tural, Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
fo\ HE B7 XAMINER j' HaS b iT n P ubllshed in Launceston
foi 8 7 years, and is still the family newspaper
Northern 1 asmania. p
of
information,
is advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weellv
Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from ;
w.
R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. V. W. Margetts,
122 Flinders Street,
Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
701 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
THE MOUTH THE GATEWAY for DISEASE.
Scientists have proved conclusively that no l'ewer
than «8 different infections may be traced to the
human mouth as a starting point. The mouth thus
being the gateway for the entrance of disease, it
is here that precautions are most necessary.
Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes
Are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germi-
cide and Antiseptic known. Beinsr destructive to
all organisms which give rise to infectious diseases,
they keep the mouth in a sweet, healthy condition.
The Lancet (London) states: —“Their purpose is to
act as a bactericide in the mouth. This result is
•j ,:e - to be gained, for in the experiments tried
Lumenthol Jujubes proved to be as effective bflp
tenei dally as is creosote.”
I/O a Tin,
NS
a>
■ A " Larynx oi
T> Organ of Voice.
The Trachea or
-
C- r * le Bronchial
Tubes of Dissected
Bung.
D- The Lobe of o«8
of the Luno-s.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis and Influenza.
The Red Page
The Serial Proviso
In the conditions governing The Bul-
letin’s Second Novel Competition, which
closes at the end of the year, it has been
stipulated that, in the judging, serial merit
would be taken into consideration. The
Bulletin has just been told plainly by a
prospective, competitor that that is a pity
as she put. it, “Surely nothilig is to be gainec
lor Australian letters by the encouragement
of sensational fiction.”
This well-meaning writer has simply suc-
cumbed to the influence of one of the most
common of fallacies—that successful serials
and sensationalism are necessarily synony-
mous. It is a fallacy chiefly fostered b>
the kind of humbug who leans on the eas\
platitude of “inspiration” instead of working
and who either forgets or does not know
that the ranks of serial fiction writers in-
clude Dickens, Thackeray. Trollope and
Stevenson, to mention only a few. Conrad’,-
Victory” has been used as a serial, and so
has Hardy’s “Tess.”
1 o come right home—the most important
contribution that Australia has made to the
universal novel list, "For the Term of His
Natural Life,” first saw the light as a serial,
and, incidentally, it -established something
oi a in this line by stretching its
serial career out over a couple of years.
.''Ome of its history differed curiously from
r.hat of Tite Bulletin’s present serial,
which had to be cut down to meet the
prevailing serial requirements; the "Term”
had to be cut before it was given book
covers.
It is not suggested here, of course, that
every good novel should succeed as a serial,
though failure to succeed when the story
is really good is nearly always due to
something objectionable in the plot or
theme. An over-sexed story or one that is
bitter about religion might be most un-
suitable for serial publication, even in a
paper like The Bulletin, whose general
appeal lies well outside of any narrow -
minded or Pecksniffian groups.
The competition closes on December 31
1929, at The Bulletin Office, 214 George-
street North, Sydney. The prizes are: First
£400; second, £250; third, £lOO.
Myra Morris
Verse-readers of last Christmas Bulletin
will know the title piece of Myra
Morris’s White Magic, just published' by
Vidler, with—to get an unpleasantness over
quickly—a few shameful misprints. When
such grit gets mixed with the petrol on
night of fancy the crash that follows is a
inevitable as it is disastrous ; because
wickedly, it forces a chuckle, and that is th
one thing that can bring poetry thuddin
to the earth.
Miss Morris can be called Australia’
leading woman balladist, though that, afte
all. is not to say very much, for few othe
ot our. women verse-writers use the a linos
formless form. She has, too, made the sea
the coast and ships her own, though she i
never other than feminine even when she
is' proxy for a coal-hulk. Her outstanding
qualities are a strong narrative gift, a nice
selective power, in description, and a fine
sense for the dramatic and romantic.
The storms that rage frequently in hei
pages are real ; in them the black clouds
can be seen scurrying; the ti-trees swav
and drip, and the open water is beaten
an u w dipped to foam. Such eleinental dis-
turbance fascinates her, as does the night,
moving with sounds and shapes. She does
not define these sense images; you get no
detailed picture of her supernatural things,
but you feel their presence at times with a
clammy certainty. In her treatment of
Australian landscape she has not the
bare, harsh touch of the realist; she
sees her land pretty much as Blamire Young
sees it m paint. The realist would probably
dub her panoramas too lavishlv colorful,
too. romantic; but there is much in Miss
Morris’s descriptive passages that is in its
different way as true to Australia as are the
grim glimpses of barren sandstone moun-
tains, the endless plains and the boundless
gum country which dominate the general
vision here and are accepted abroad as
completely typical.
These general qualities of the poet can-
not, of course, be illustrated by brief quota-
tion; they are the impression that the book
as a whole leaves. It is not by any means
a flawless book. It is very uneven in places;
the things drawn are sometimes, worthless,
c.g., “The Y oung Stevedore,” moving heavily
through lines that get close to doggerel. (No
doubt the trouble here and in like instances
is that- Miss Moms writes excellent short
stories as well as verse, and, like most that
mix their mediums, is apt to deck out in
poetic raiment what should really wear th
handsome, but lesser garb of prose.) An
idea of what she expresses and of her gif
ex P re ® s ca n be had from these stanzas o
“The Clinging Land”:—
Go take your mattock in your brawny hands’.
l*o sunny your silver axe—the way is free ’
Look how the sun lights all the Mallee lands.
J-he rich black slopes along the southern sea!
W here dreams the richest pasture, none may know
Hut every man shall reap what he shall 'sow!
From out the broken earth, the fruitful soil,
there thrusts a splendid form, untrammelled now—
Man vowed unto the service of the land,
i lie mark of clods upon his sweating: brow.
11m tread is Ann and joyous. ’Neath his hand,
Bitten with age-old toil,
There lies a plough.
• a »» *1 j ' V ' arstl ancl tel ’rible! Unyielding earth !
Mother and mistress, too—the strong and sweet!
Man—conqueror he, yet prisoned at her feet:
1 nsoned in that dark soil that gave him birth !
{The Riverina plains are white with sheep ,
' Lampaspe flats are like a golden sea.
You dare not vest until your acres sweep.
/(i J*y road and rise, to blue infinity!
Ihe clinging lands will never let you go
And every man shall reap what he. shall’ sow!)
) R ih bis ears. He hears the sound
chiming creeks, of birds that singing pass
rn, rUR P‘ng wind among the ripened corn,
The timid hare that stirs the tufted grass
And restless cattle lowing in the morn
When frost is on the ground
Like powdered glass.
ihe rasp of axe and saw is in his ears,
Ihe rhythmic beat of silver whirling blades
, j , thresher whistling when the long day fades,
And little crying 1 Limbs—-aJI these he hears !
Charmed is her touch. .;,She gives for recompense
Sweet dreams, the while he hears the moaning song
Ut wind a-down the chimney wintry eves.
He sits and stares and dreams Pie whole night long
Of scattered flocks that lie like drifted leaves,
" here past each white-railed fence
The feed grows strong; .
Of shadowy wheat that turns in wavering golds,
Like waters rippling to the world’s lost rim,
And, far away where smoky spires are dim
He sees grey ships go out with bursting holds!
{Blow on him, wind! Shine on his head, O sun!
Made, beautiful by toil his obscure span!
Rough soil, brute man—together they are one
Resurgent he, the conqueror is Man!
The clinging earth will never let him go
And every man shall reap What ,he shall sou;!)
Thorn you have verse alive with feeling,
<uid there is much more of the kind
m this book, which, notwithstanding the
printing defects mentioned, is well produced
and holds among its gifts nothing more
pleasing than the open-eyed portrait of the
poet herself.
CECIL MANN.
Class-room Movies
An article which appeared in The Bulletin
in 1925 was the final word in persuading one
of Sydney’s leading Great Public Schools
to give the moving picture a sincere trial
as an aid in the class-room. For reasons
that can now be mentioned after four years’
experiment, the scheme does not work as
easily as might be expected.
The first “catch” occurred with the pur-
chase of a small, low-priced projector. It
was adequate for ordinary class purposes,
but. film distributors would not allow their
film (except worn-out stuff) to be run
through a projector of its poor grade. A
thoroughly up-to-date projector (Australian
made) was purchased, and fire-insurance and
fire-regulation costs, a fire-proof operating
box and special blinds brought the iota
expenditure up to about £250. Then the
real trouble occurred; there was found to
be an entire absence of film possessing defi-
nite educational arid instructional value
although assurances of a continuous supph
had been given. Such film as there was
went through in less than one school term
and the Australian “Know Your Own
Country” series was found the most useful
The vital point, is that educational film
as such, is not made. The public doesn’t
want it, the showman doesn’t need it and
the market amongst educational institu-
tions doesn’t warrant it. Go to any picture
showman and talk educational film to him;
you will neet with a very cold reception’
Community service clubs, welfare organi-
sations and kindred bodies, on platforms
and through the press, are for ever clamor-
ing against the type of pictures screened
in the theatres—down with the slush and
trash, let us have something nobler, some-
thing better, something of real educational
value! But when the showman does put
on a valuable picture—such as “With Cob-
ham to the Cape,” “Lost in the Arctic” or
the Paramount classic “Grass”—do they
arise in large numbers and go to see it?
They do not. Numbers of showmen have
almost broken their hearts over such people
and such pictures. There is only one thing
that counts—the box office; and the public
gets what it wants. Here, then, is the most
cogent reason for the dearth of educational
films —the public doesn't ivant them.
A solution would be some sort of film
library subsidised by the Government and
producing from time to time educational
films with the help of a university and
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


"Truth in Advertising the Foundation-stone of Honest Trading,
laid by Anthony Horderns'.
Anthony Horderns'
Half-Yearly
ft
m
- 5
*Sr **
m
- ’
m
1
i
i—
f
•>;.;
s
4m
■'/ mm /<
s /
Xi y 4V>Sj y S
//
*N\,
Suits to Order
at Sale Prices
84/-, now 75/-
Save on your new Suit, and at the same time be assured
of excellent materials and the finest workmanship, by having
it made at Anthony Horderns 5 , who place the whole of their
vast experience in Men’s Tailoring at your service
Special Indigo Serge, 135/-. Sale Price, £5. A dark suit,
well tailored, adds an air of distinction to a man’s whole
bearing. This Special Offer is the chance you should seize
to increase your wardrobe.
The Suit which costs 126/- normally can now be ordered for
the Sale Price of 115/-, or if you prefer a slightly more
expensive one, the Sale Price of the £7/1 7/6 Suit is £6/19/6.
Patterns and Self-measurement Forms
on application.
The whole of our high-grade Tailoring Stock is offered
at Sale Price, giving you the widest possible range of choice.
w
(liuLJor thif!
Other Bargains.
In our 160-page Sale Catalogue you will find
similar and even greater Reductions in every
Department of the Store. Each article is
accurately described, and every reduction is
guaranteed absolutely Genuine.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.
Anthony Hordern s'
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, UMiiED, SYDNEY
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night


CAR
THE WORLD HAS A NEW AND FINER
m
MOTOR
NASH
ft
/n
£
o
o
§
/
©
A
0
0
A
o
;-r:i
0
©
o
(§
J
o
0
/_
m
n
€
m
m
a
&
!fg
and now*
THE NEW
NASH
'4oo'
HIRTEEN years ago, C. W. Nash, then
President of the second largest motor-car
company, founded a small, new institution
to which he gave his name, his full energy
and an idea.
THAT idea was the building, in large volume,
of a moderate-priced car which would have
the appearance and every other desirable
quality of the costliest cars on the market.
The ambition of his manufacturing career
was completely realised with the introduction
of the now famous Nash “400.”
Within only 10 months after their announce-
ment over 140,000 of these great cars were
speeding over the highways of the world—
ably testifying to the brilliance of the idea
and the merit of the product.
No other car in the history of the industry
ever has combined —at any price —such
owner advantages as valve-in-head, high
compression, Twin-ignition Motors;
Hydraulic Shock Absorbers; Centralised
Chassis Lubrication; positive four-wheel
brakes; and the World’s Easiest Steering!
TOURERS.
Standard Six from £375
Special Six from . . .. . . £4BO
Advanced Six from. . .. .. £63o*
SEDANS.
£4so* (2 door) £47o* (4 door)
£565* (2 door) £sBo* (4 door)
£62o* (2 door) £635* (4 door)
Body.
Distributors for New South Wales:
WILLSFORD, LTD.,
132-134 Phillip Street,
SYDNEY.
’Phones: 8W2291 (5 lines).
Distributors for Victoria and Tasmania
RICKARDS BROS. PTY., LTD.,
567-573 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
’Phone: F3U4.
Distributors
for Queensland and Northern Rivers:
PEELS, LTD.,
407-431 Stanley Street,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
’Phone: J 1561.
Distributors for South Australia and Broken Hill
AUTOCARS, LTD.,
58-72 Flinders Street,
ADELAIDE.
'Phone: Central 5500.
Distributors for West Australia:
ERIC MADDREN MOTORS, LTD.,
996 Hay Street,
PERTH.
'Phones: 85610, 87634.
TASMANIAN DEALERS:
THE SERVICE CO. OF TASMANIA, 56 Paterson Street, Launceston.
E. MEERMANN, 135 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
BENNETT & GILBERT, Best Street, Devonport.


For Any Travel
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
ŵ
The accredited Agents of all Steam
Ship Lines. Their expert guidance and
special facilities cost you nothing.
TO EUROPE 1930
Apply now for accommodation, as
berthing plans for all steamers are open.
WINTER TOURS
To Queensland, Bali, Java, Siam,
Japan, Hawaii, Malaya, Sumatra, Indo-
China (Saigon, Pnom-Penh, Angkor).
STEAMER EXCURSIONS
Cairns, South Sea Islands, Fiji, Tahiti,
Honolulu, Ceylon, Java, Japan and
Manila, etc.
COOKS’ TRAVELLERS* CHEQUES
Are the safest and most convenient
means of carrying funds.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street
ADELAIDE:
49 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building*
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
directed by an experienced teacher. More
schools would go in for it, and the thing
might finally be put on a paying basis.
One most important result was achieved
by this experiment—the value of the motion
picture as an instructional medium was
proved to be unquestionable; that was made
quite definite in test exams, over and over
again. Also, it must be added that a picture
projector can have other uses in a board-
ing school —particularly on the dreary
Saturday night. Excellent programmes can
be obtained from any film exchange, and
in our own case the pictures filled a niche
in the school life which has more than
rewarded all expense. _
PETER DAWSON.
Realism and Patternism
All bewilderment regarding the modern-
ist movement in painting is due to a lack
of appreciation of the fact that the modern-
ist entirely inverts accustomed standards.
His aim is not in the least to give us a
representation of nature, but to produce on
a canvas (or in marble) something which
shall be beautiful in itself. (Seldom is he
sufficiently philosophical to realise that
once again it is a chase after the old meta-
physical hare!) It is a pattern of beautiful
shapes and colors that he seeks—entirely
independent of any representative purport.
Nature to him may serve as a motif, as a
suggestor of possible patterns, but not as a
model. He desires his canvas to be judged
entirely for its patternistic qualities; that
it be appreciated in precisely the same spirit
as we should regard a Persian kelim, a
Chinese vase or a Japanese print.
This point of view is artistically respect-
able. It is evident that patternistic beauty
depends upon the variety with which colors
and proportions are assembled. Unfortu-
nately, "it is indisputable that all purely
patternistic works—carpets, kelims, wood-
prints—are inevitably hemmed in by con-
ventions, dominated by artistic fashions and
prejudices, the favored type of pattern being
notoriously dependent on time and space.
The realist, however, untrammelled by the
prejudice of the pattern, envisaging frankly
the infinite variety of nature, seeking always
to reproduce, achieves unconsciously pat-
terns of far greater variety. Compare, for
example, the variety of mass, of edge, in
a landscape by Corot with the much more
mechanical, more stylise, shapes of Cezanne
or Utrillo. What sparkling, varied pattern
is in the purely realistic landscapes of
Justus Jorgensen! Compare the amazing
variety, the textural differentiation, in the
“Bethsheba” of Rembi’andt with the mono-
tonous quality of a nude by Picasso or
Fonjita.
Patternistically the great realists are in-
variably splendid, just as is—invariably—
Nature. Yet nothing was further from the
mind of a Rembrandt or a Velasquez than
the idea of pattern. To them the interest-
ing job was the definition of _ what they
were seeing: the artist paints in order to
see. More light they sought for; more
character; greater unity. Always to record
their impressions with greater snap; always
more life. These are the great observers —
painting in order to see! For them the
merit of a picture lay not in its patternistic
“beauties,” but in the knowledge contained
—gained—in the painting of it. Knowledge
is their quest, not beauty. Beauty is the
occupation of the chocolate-boxer. Like
all other fashions, it does not concern the
true artist. For him the beauty of a pic-
ture is in the snap of its first impression—
the accuracy of its planes, the sparkle of
its light, the characterisation. Sexual or
fashionable ideas of beauty have no place
in aesthetics. That is why an old hag by
Rembrandt or Rodin is beautiful artistically,
whereas a Lambert portrait of a desirable
young girl is merely sexually beautiful—
artistically it is stodgy and slick.
COLIN COLAHAN.
Mrs. Boswell of Russia
The Diary of Tolstoy’s Wife (Gollancz:
Robertson and Mullens), translated from
the Russian for the first time by Alexander
Werth, is a human document of the first
importance. It is also a warning: to all great
literary figures to arrange that their wives
shall predecease them and that any or all
of their documentary leavings shall be
buried with them.
During the ’eighties and ’nineties Tolstoy
was not only a great world figure; he was
regarded as a tremendous seer, a beatific
philosopher, a sort of Russian Ghandi and
a man whose beautiful and holy teachings
were the authentic reflections of a white and
consecrated soul. Societies galore were
formed to worship at the bare feet of the
Master. Hundreds of men and women wore
their hair long and their underclothing
longer and called themselves Tolstoyians.
If they could rake up the train-fare they
made the journey to Yasnaya Polyana,
where they were not only ensured of a
benevolent reception but might live gratis
on the hard work of the Count’s peasants
for ever and ever. The Russian saint had
announced that his love embraced all
humanity; so naturally all available human-
ity became his peer relations.
In one significant sentence the Countess
Tolstoy puts her dainty foot through this
amiable fiction. “If spiritual salvation con-
sists,” she writes under date Dec. 11, 1890,
“in killing the life of your neighbor, then
Lvova is surely saved.” “Lyova” is her
pet name for her husband.
Tolstoy married the woman who was to
be his constant companion for 50 years when
she was 19. He was many years older.
With his impeccable capacity for always
putting himself in the right he handed his
future bride the diaries of his bacheloi
life two days before the wedding. The
innocent, girl read them, blenched, swal-
lowed hard, and then, overwhelmed by
her romantic love for the writer, decided
to go through with it. The diaries not
only remained in the house they stuck m
the Countess’s memory. Keeping diaries
seems to be a Russian foible, an expression
of the national passion for introspection ana
self-analysis. All the Countess’s friends
kept diaries; she kept one herself, and
her husband constantly read it and even
added some humorless annotations to hei
ruthless commentaries on him. Whenever
she was waiting for one of her innumerable
babies his cold indifference turned to active
hatred, and as compensation he turned on
the tap of his spirituality and poured it
over the unwashed peasants, the Dark
People” who filled the Countess s home
with clamor and her aristocratic heart with
loathing. Whenever through sickness she
was unable to feed her infants, the fuiy
of the Count was unbounded; though it,
always melted into loving-kindness when
he contemplated the woes of humanity
in the abstract.
The diary exhibits Tolstoy as a cola
voluptuary. The Countess contrasts■ his
pacifism with his childish love of militaiy
glory, his humanitarianism with his domes-
tic callousness. As old age crept upon him lie
became tormented by a consuming fea,r of
eternal punishment. This gross superstition
dominated his life, stultified his develop-
ment as an artist, and, incidentally, found
expression in that most barbarous of his
books, “What Is Art?”—the instinctive
revolt of the primitive mind against all that
is fine and beautiful. Its most poignant
consequence was its clipping of the wi uf? s
of the very magnificent woman he lived with.
Tolstoy may have understood the charac-
ters of Napoleon and Kutuzov, but of the
Countess Tolstoy, it seems, he knew less
than nothing. Her retort was the supremely
ironic one of leaving behind her a Ros-
wellian record which may be read when
“War and Peace” and “Anna Karenina
are forgotten. _ _
M. G. SKIPPER.
A Satchel of Book
Songs of a Southern Land, by Eileen Wan-
din Lloyd (Four Seas Co., Boston). A
nicely-produced volume of pleasant verses by,
according to a note on the jacket, one of
the most promising of contemporary Austra-
lian poets.”
Sarah’s Husband, by G. I. Whitburn (
Lane). A heady Edgar Wallace brew, with
a faint flavoring of Le Fanu, wherein the
reader’s leg is well and truly pulled through-
out. No shocker addict can ask for more
than that.
Percival at Play, by Anthony Armstrong
(Methuen). Another collection of “A.A.’s’
sketches from Punch, chronicling the absurd
adventures of Percival; those incidents that
everyone with a sense of the ridiculous enjoys
—vicariously. A good pocketful of chuckles.
The Teachings of Freemasonry, by “Essex
Master” (Palmer). An introductory manual,
wherein the author suggests that to many
of us the craft is more of a mystery than
was ever intended. H’c does not attempt to
explain the full teachings, but declares Unit
they provide a satisfying philosophy. ‘ The
book is written for Freeniasons, and what-
ever interest or influence it may have will be
confined to those readers who are members
of the Craft.”
The Children Reap, by H. B. Drake (The
Bodley Head). An English prospector
abandons his mates in a cave in the savages!
and most mountainous part of Formosa.
Grown old, he returns with a nephew and
niece to expiate his treachery, and finds his
cobber still living and paramount chief of
the local cannibals. He is punished by being
allowed to live alone with his conscience.
Might pass as good melodrama if it weren’t
so long-winded.
Express to Hindustan, by M. H. Ellis
(Bodley Head). The story of the Birtles
effort to motor from England to Australia,
told by one of the three in the party. The
attempt failed, but, after suffering terribly,
the party achieved the first winter-time
motor journey from London to Constanti-
nople and the first complete one from Lon-
don to just beyond the Indian border. An
interesting account, fragments of it already
contributed by Mr. Ellis to The Bulletin,
with a good narrative flavor and keen obser-
vation.
Sex and Disease, by Robert V. Storer
(Butterworth, Australia). Dr. Storer, of
Macquarie-street. who offers the advice and
suggestions of his book in a wholly ethical
spirit, fears that their “frankness may bring
much unpleasantness upon” himself. The
fear should be baseless; the book, though its
subject involves horrible terms, provides
essential and clear instructions in the avoid-
ance of sex diseases, with explanation of
their form and of treatments employed, and
is, as Dr. ,T. S. Purdy, Sydney Health Officer,
remarks in his introduction, “an instructive
effort at social service.”
Predestined, by Anne Duflield (John
Murray). A thriller, a romance and a charm-
ing bit of writing all in one. It concerns
the lives of the lovely and emotional daugh-
ters of a French mother. The problems of
all three hinge, to an extent, on that of
Valerie, who has a mysterious passion for
China. When she goes there with her sailor
husband it becomes a question of saving her
from herself—-from the obsession that she is
possessed by a Chinese soul —and in the pro-
cess exciting and horrifying events occur. The
book is weakened by the writer’s fear of her
subject; but it is a more finished work, as
regards characterisation, than “The Lacquer
Couch,” and it has all the latter’s quiet
beauty and pathos.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) trill be' taken of communications
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability ts undertaken e
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
R.W.: So easy-going that it might have
been written by a tame duck... .K. 8.: Neither will
do 1L5.0.: Failed to fire us, so we had to fire
it 8.E.: (1) No recollection of your earlier
question concerning the so-called “folk-song”; any-
how, we can’t accept responsibility for what any-
one writes in an unspecified Brisbane newspaper.
(2) Your article was rejected, because The Bulletin
has to protect not its writers, but its readers....
Emel: Some might get in elsewhere T.1.M.:
“Underneath” now i5....G.V.: We agree that
With awards of the court always rising
And employment so hal’d to obtain
It is really not very surprising
That production continues to wane.
. ...0.W.: Booms and blunders along like an inebri-
ated Wurlitzer J. 0.8.: Paragraphs too rambling
and discursive... .0.H.G.: What with Clara Bow
in pyjamas and all that, how do you expect people
to get a thrill out of a window-dresser’s affair with
a lady dummy?. .. .R.W.G.: Admired the picture
suggested by “The leagues between us I do rope
with passion dreams again”. .. .T.A.H.: A pretty
conceit, but we like them less artificial... .L.G.S.G.:
“Even you, Sir, cannot deny to the enclosed lines
force, fire, passion, originality and beauty.” We’ll
admit anything you like, so long as we don’t have
to print ’em W.T.: Doesn’t make the weight.
Don F.: “The Call” didn’t wake the chap who
sleeps in our pay-office...-W.S.C.: Your request
inspired our laureate’s understudy:—
And so you’d like to read your verse to us?
Our answer is, Please do—
Provided we can repay you thus:
By reading some of ours to you!
.... Pindamar: Not reviving that controversy—it
lasted long enough. Yours was one of 30 or -10
pars, that missed... .R.H.W.: Of local interest only,
and The Bulletin aims at interesting continents....
Black Watch: Inconsequential and tedious W.P.:
Poem distinguished by an attempt to rhyme “Hades”
with “spades.” Story without even a gem like that.
A.W.S.: Dialogue stilted; action too long
delayed, yet it has some originality W.W.1.: Too
much bonedust to the pinch of romance.. . . H.A.L.:
Hasn’t the structure of a story ; though interesting
j n a way R.W.T.: Might find a place in a
young ’uns’ magazine... .H.C.L.: No wonder you
were seasick after “three helpings of fried and
bacon” —and it doesn’t make literature... .J.E.H.:
Can’t detect any merit in your detective yarn
R.J.0.: “Who Killed Jacqueline?” The basket
Bolin: There seems to be thought behind your work
—a bit too far behind J.A.: Might do someone
else Smudge Pots: Regret to inform you that the
difficulty with which it was composed could have
been nothing to the difficulty with which, etc
Sambo: “Mulga Bill” is now with Massa E.M.S.:
Well, we’ll go a little way with you on “The Road
of Life”:—
Time and life! Mother of the new-born child,
Inviting form, upon thy highways wild.
Here swaying youth by vainest caprice,
And dangling lives with fortunes apiece
In cottage quiet, where love and peace doth nourish,
Or, mansions, where dissipations flourish,
False modesty, and sensual age
With virginity thus drawn, engage.
Let us now join in singing a couple of lines from
T oS ti M.E.8.: Nothing there for us C.N.:
“The River Murray” floweth 0ut....R.E.: Would
advise some study of versecraft before you “try
again”.... J.N.: Suggests anecdotagc... .11. A. 8.:
Your circumstantial evidence too full of holes to
carry a conviction... .W.W.8.: Haven’t space to
mention all that’s wrong with it... .8.Z.: Descriptive
stuif more suitable to daily press... .Y.P.N.: Cant
match that suit with our pink cover E.R.R.:
Unable to suffer your fool gladly 1.G.: All the
fat’s on the Zulu and none in the story G.R.F.8.:
Well told, but idea stereotyped. .. .F.S.: Story of a
Chink, a crook and a coffin well and truly buried.
J.0.1.: Like your introduction of yourself—
“A Scot with a love of verse and in the grocery
business” —but don’t like your lines 5.8. R.: You
seem very happy, but none of us can make out what
it’s all about. What do you drink? Wolf T.:
Of 'course we’re interested in putting down humbug.
But that doesn’t mean that we’re interested in
putting down every little local humbug.... J. MacD.:
You get off on to too many side-tracks Pagan J.:
And you go round too many corners to get to the
pub just opposite, t00....M.8.: Close. .. -D.N.: The
“Birds” are not of our feather H.C.W.: All out
for a duck E.M.G.: Has to go back H.8.W.:
Too long for its interest... .H. StD.: Prose and verse
won’t mix... .8.K.: Much too slight... .Hercules
R.: Glad you have been reading good poetry. We,
also, have been reading.... C.P.S.: No g00d... .A.T.:
A fair way off, that... .C.M.C.:
My gifted offerings labelled “Slight”
May their ghosts haunt you day and night.
Not afraid; if they’re as slight as present sample
they couldn’t shecl a ghost... .E.M.P.: Failed the
test of a second reading. .. .M.P.: The “Wail”
promises really well, but falls to a grizzle. ...
P.K.: Frankly, they beat us. .. .M.P.: Both miss. .. .
L.M.M.M.: Knocked out in the second round
L.G.8.: Subject already dealt with.... Harold G.:
Handed on J.A. (Ryrnont) : “Waverley,"
“Esmond,” “The Three Musketeers”; Bourrienne’s
“Napoleon” (available in a cheap translation),
Guedalla’s “Second Empire,” Strachey’s “Queen
Victoria” Per Cap.: The Vie. Taxpayer gives
these figures for 1926-27: U.K., £l4 Us. Bd.;
Australia, £l4 ss. ; France, £7 6s. 7d. ; Germany,
£5 10s. 7d. ; Italy, £4 12s. 4d. Since then the
income-tax has been increased in N.S.W. and S.A.,
and N.S.W. has imposed its child-endowment tax —
£2 in the £lOO of wages and salaries.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.C.S.: Pity there is no Dog Act for amateur
artists R.A.N.: If you must joke about whisky,
think out a new one... .R.M.E.: No hope in the
world C.H.: We’ll have to leave you out
R. : Sure of a place among the year’s worst
W. J.M.8.: Stick to the cheapest paper you can buy ;
you’ll ruin reams of it before you get anywhere
P. 11.: A faint idea in it, but crudely handled
S. : That couple will catch pneumonia if you keep
them out on that balcony J.H.R.: Stone carvings.
. ...C.C.: You are not improving 1.H.: Micro-
scopic sketch of mouse surveying his footprints....
F.F.: Incomprehensible stuff about blondes and
brunettes A.W.R.: Heavy-handed linework and
stodgy gags so far.


w
n
/
■
S'
•*>
Rfl
■
u
I
I H
m
i
■
k
■
;
■
i
■
m
mmim
%
V
A


The Bulletin
Vol. 50.—N0. 2579.
July 17, 1929.
ANOTHER ROAD ACCIDENT PENDING.
“Asked to comment on the British Government’s proposal to abolish preferences, particularly those on dried fruits, the Prime Minister (Mr. Bruce) expressed
deep regret that Mr. Snowden should have indicated that the preferences would be removed.”
MR. BRUCE: “If only I’d put a decent tariff engine in my own car!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
tlh George Street, Sydney; Box 252188.
Victoria: IH-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: £}9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westrauia : 33 Barraclc Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, 1V.C.2.
Regent 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. Cd.;
5 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: ioz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional ioz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., ild.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: ioz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENT 3 OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
Movies for Schools 2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
THE FRONT-PAGE CARTOON—by Leason .. 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
AUSTRALIA SEARCHES ITS POCKETS .. 8
THE PERIL FROM THE AIR 8
Our Parson’s New Job
By Ulick Browne .. .. .. .. 8
THE ROW ON THE COALFIELDS .. .. 9
WHY ARBITRATION FAILS 9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD . . .. .. 9
POLITICS (with caricatures) . . .. .. 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. . . . . 11, 12
PERSONAL (with three drawings) . . .. 14
POVERTY POINT 15
William Macleod Cartoons of 1883-85 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) . . .. 17
ABO. ART SHOW 17
“WILD CAT’’ COLUMNS 18 20
ALLEN TAYLORS 18
AUTOMOBILE FIRE AND GENERAL . . . . 18
AUSTRALIAN CASH ORDERS 18
CANADIAN MARCONI .. 20
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 23, 25
Free Service Department 26
MAN ON THE LAND . . 28 31
BUYING A HORSE ' . 2 8
DUAL PURPOSE DAIRY CATTLE . . 21
SMOKE-OH " 3 ,
PEN AND PICTURE . . ’ "35
THE INKY WAY " " 35
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC. . . 36
SPORTING (Illustrated) .. .. ..39, 41 42
V.R.C. GRAND NATIONAL STEEPLE ’ 39
MOOREFIELD R.C
FOOTBALL—ALL BLACKS IN MELBOURNE 39
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE . . . . 44
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER . . . . ” 46
Fashions for the Spring .. 46
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 49
“The Quartermaster” • .. 50, 51, 52, 58
NORMAN LINDSAY ILLUSTRATION .. .. 51
COMPLETE STORIES—
“Nobby’s,” by J. H. M. Abbott .. 55, 57
“THE WAYS OF PROVIDENCE,” by “Hamer” 58
VERSE—
“PROOF,” by “P.T.F.” .. .. .. ..23
“HAUNTED HARBOR,” by John Sandes .. 57
“AT ARTHUR’S PASS (M.L.)” —
By Jessie Mackay .. .. .. .. 58
“THE PASSER-BY”—
By Lilia Gormhuille McKay . , .. 58
Next Week.
“Worth a Dozen.”
On® of the best Air-force and Air-fight stories ever
written ! Complete “in this issue.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 17, 1920.
AUSTRALIA SEARCHES ITS
POCKETS.
The present Australian Ministry has toiled
on the principle that expenditure, including
loan expenditure, should grow bigger every
year, otherwise progress has left off. The
Commonwealth expended and charged up
to revenue in 1928-29 about £28,000,000
more than in the last year of the war.
Revenue failed to meet the demand by
“approximately,” as the official tale has it,
£2,338,309. This the Bruce-Pages regard
as unmerited misfortune.
The Commonwealth’s figure expert puts
his outgoings into a number of divisions,
and tries to debit each department with its
proper share of the interest bill. The
“Governor-General” and “Parliament” have
no interest bill, and it is gratifying to know
that his Excellency hasn’t been pawned.
Increases and decreases from 1922-23, when
the Bruce-Pages began, to 1927-28 (de-
tails for 1928-29 not available yet) are as
follows:
Decrease Compared
„ , , 1927-28. With 1922-23.
New works charged
to revenue .. £220,867 £500,060
Trade and customs 2,002,143 941 66 6
Parliament .. 419,131 "26533
Governor-General. 27,366 ’679
• Increase Compared
... ~ , With 1922-23.
Attorney-General. 231,698 78 901
Works and railways 1,267,173 140 867
Markets & migration 172,025 172 a 95
Health .. .. 371,354 215’442
Home & Territories 789,787 263’755
Defence .. . . 4,185,818 400,’236
Prime Minister . . 1,623,066 714 539
Treasury.. .. 11,246,348 4,065^563
Postmaster-General 12,392,976 4,150,851
War services, etc. 47,169,907 8,997,633
So there are few departments in which a
strenuous Government can’t find scope for
increasing expenses in a large way.
Whatever capacity for the reduction of
outgoings is revealed in the above table is
mainly in the direction of ceasing to pay
for new public works out of revenue, which
signifies paying for them out of loan money
instead. Public works expenditure out of
revenue amounted to £2,571,794 in 1921-22,
the year before the present Ministry rose
to fame, and that was poor enough. It
fell to £220,867 as the national income
grew and multiplied, which was shocking.
The Prime Minister’s expanding depart-
ment includes the Commissioner in the
United States, the Development and Mi-
gration outfit, and Scientific and Industrial
Research, recent arrivals which are priced
at nearly £400,000 per annum. Of the
robust rise in the Postmaster-General’s bill,
over £1,722,000 is “Miscellaneous.” There
is also nearly £2,000,000 of additional “Mis-
cellaneous” under “All Other Expenditure,”
which is miscellaneous enough itself. “Trea-
sury” spends £9,790,346 on Old Age and
Invalid Pensions against £5,424,016 when the
present Cabinet took the field. It is a
noble action to help the aged and infirm,
and allowable to blow about it, provided the
benevolent politicians are not being good
with other people’s money, and preparing
the way for a nasty, heartless period of
retrenchment to follow. “Markets and
Migration” is a new baby which appeared
in 1924-25, when the “salaries and contin-
gencies” of the staff amounted to £1529.
They were £59,744 in 1927-28.
The present Federal Government had
years of surpluses. The country imported
too much, to the great damage of its own
industries, and collected paper-money duties
on the imports. The Finance Bulletin
(1927-28) alleges that the total Federal
revenue was £11,949 587 more in 1927-28
than in 1922-23, and £7,251,073 of this arose
out of the importing bubble. With all
these real and alleged riches pouring in,
Bruce and Page were apparently in chronic
difficulties,/ for the Commonwealth’s own
debt, quite apart from money raised for the
States, grew by £8,000,000 in six years.
That is to say, the foreign debt enlarged
and bloated by 39 millions (rise ' from
£114,528,780 to £153,507,124) and the local
debt shrank by about 31 millions (fall from
£250.310,810 to £219,276,965).
This shows that paper surpluses in
Australia are useful for meeting paper
liabilities in Australia, but are useless out-
side. Consequently, though the matter of
making accounts balance is important, it
isn’t half as important as some critics sup-
pose. Australia would be far more solvent
in a year of all-round deficits when its
foreign debt was reduced than in a year
of sensational surpluses when outside lia-
bilities grew like a green bay-tree.
IMPERILLING AUSTRALIA.
The hamstringing of the Australian Navy
is not likely to involve the Commonwealth
in immediate danger. Even if the Govern-
ment tied up the entire fleet, or sank it,
the British Navy would no doubt go on pro-
tecting the trade routes of the Indian and
Pacific Oceans along which our wool and
wheat' travel—anyhow, until trade rivalry
in the U.S.A., Bolshevik propaganda in
India, and the westernisation of China drive
Britain out of this hemisphere altogether.
The most serious immediate effect of the
Bruce-Pagh naval policy will be to give the
MacDonald Government, which is now
“considering its Singapore policy,” an
acceptable excuse to suspend work on the
Base. The Commonwealth promised to
pay its share of the construction work by
keeping the Australian Navy up to strength,
and, to that extent, easing the burdens of
the taxpayers of Britain. But, even if the
Commonwealth lets Britain down, the Mac-
Donald Government may go on with the
scheme in view of the contributions of
Maoriland and Malaya and the sums
already spent on it, in which case nothing
will be lost by Australia —except its honor.
Much the same considerations apply to
the land-defence cuts. It is a pitiful busi-
ness to throw Digger-employees of the
Lithgow small-arms factory on to a world
of unemployment after so many years’
service; and the injustice of training C.M.F.
battalions in one district and disbanding
them in another is bound to have a disas-
trous effect on discipline and moral. Yet
here again probably no immediate danger
to Australia is involved.
But air defence is in a different category.
Nine months ago Australians who knew
what was being done in the air in other
parts of the world were horrified to learn
from the expert imported by the Bruce
Government to report on the Australian
Air Force that it was “totally unfitted to
undertake war operations,” and that it
required “the immediate expenditure of
over £1,000.000 on equipment and training.”
The Bruce-Pages drowned the cries of pro-
test which were evoked by this exposure of
their years of mismanagement by promises
that Air-Marshal Salmond’s recommenda-
tions would be carried out. For a long time
now, air defence should have been this
country’s national pre-occupation. Scarcely a
day passes without fresh proofs of how seri-
ous our air peril is; and it is not merely an
economic one, but a menace to life and
limb. A few weeks ago the Kingsford
Smith party remained for many days un-
discovered in a comparatively settled part
of north-west Australia. Later this party
reached Asia from Australia inside 20 hours
in one hop. The implications of those two
circumstances are tremendous. Further,
every chemist who has written about the
next war agrees that it will begin suddenly
and from the air. Professor Haldane, of
Cambridge, wrote recently: “The air defence
of our cities is a problem only second in
importance to the maintenance of our food
supplies.” According to Major Nye, the
British army’s gas expert, warfare by means
of high-explosive bombs and arsenical
smoke-generators is so certain that “the
Government should now take steps to pro-
vide gas-proof cellars for the whole city-
dwelling population of Britain.”
Japan is an air power, and China is fast
becoming one. According to Major Von
Scudi, the famous German airman, who
traversed Russia last year, the Red Air
Force, built with money subscribed by the
workers or deducted from their wages, is
the biggest and not the least efficient in
Europe. The Soviet Government “last year
spent 20 times as much as Britain on
poison gas services.” And Russia has ports
on the Pacific. So that the coastal cities
of Australia, in the event of war in the
Pacific, are in present danger of being
shattered by bombs and drenched with gas
at a few hours’ notice; and the danger is
progressive.
The reason given by the Bruce-Pages for
making no real provision to guard against
these appalling risks is shortage of funds.
Yet the cost of administering most of the
Federal departments has increased prodigi-
ously, and the Government is contributing
at the rate of £2,000,000 p.a. to State speed-
ways which most motorists agree are not
wanted. It is a suicidal policy, nationally
speaking, and it has no points even from
the degraded standpoint of the party tac-
tician.
OUR PARSON’S NEW JOB.
Those who look jor literary grace in
this article, which comes from the
remote nor’-west of Queensland, will
not find it. But they will find some-
thing better—a •plain story of great
things that are being done for the
Farthest Outback by men who never
get their names in the papers, and of
how those things appeal to a man who
knows what pioneering is.
The Australian Inland Mission is doing a
national work at Cloncurry. In the first place
it instituted the Aerial Medical Service, a
magnificent conception which is evolving
into a most valuable adjunct' of Western
Queensland hospital organisation. It is now
concentrating on light wireless sets, which
are to be distributed through the back
country on loan and by purchase, to enable
stations isolated from telephone and tele-
graph to get in touch with the Aerial
Medical Service per medium of a central
wireless station. Ordinary messages will
also be attended to.
A most interesting evening was spent
recently by a number of us who had
attended the Aerial Medical Conference, on
the invitation of the Revs. Barber and
Scott, two of the A.I.M. workers. Mr.
Treager, chief wireless engineer, showed us
over the “mother station,” which is the
vestry of a church and a small detached
building. At my first sight of the outfit
my mind flew back to wintry nights spent
in the company of some jolly friars of my
acquaintance. These holy men lived in an
abbey of magnificent proportions, but the
surrounding peasantry went ignorant and
unclad. The clang of bells, the song of
tonsured monks at their devotions, the
reverent exhibition of sundry bones which
used to serve some early saint with the
means of locomotion, the light of massive
candelabras, the draughtiness of the refec-
tory, the huge log fire at one end with the
slowly turning spit of roasting meat —all
came back to me at Cloncurry that even-
ing. What a contrast! No great structure
of stone here amongst surrounding poverty,
but a very modest wooden church, the
vestry fitted out with gadgets and charms
whose true purpose is known only to the
cheerful-faced wireless troglodytes in charge.
The quiet information that if one fiddles
about one might connect with a wire carry-
ing 1200 volts impressed me far more than
ever did saints’ bones. Sweet music issued
forth; it was not the music of the abbey
choir, but of SCL Adelaide, that fell upon
our astonished ears! The place was strung
with wires; many of us had our first sight
of tuning dials, of white ampere and volt
meters, of pulsating bulbs of light, of tick-
ing Morse—and then the quiet voice of Mr.
Treager talking to one of the faithful
a thousand miles away!
We were next introduced to the A.I.M.
transmitting and receiving sets—marvels,
they seemed to us, of ingenuity and compact-
ness. Their total weight is but 351 b., their
range about 400 miles, and they cost £5O
at Cloncurry. The sending is done by
Morse, the current for the transmitter being
generated by a pedal-operated miracle,
worked on the principle of a high-speed
emery-wheel. With my thumb on the
terminals I could soon feel the current in
my armpit. At that point I took Treager’s
assurance that when the correct speed was
attained it would transmit 400 miles. It
may be all very well for the scientist to
risk death in proving his case, but I am a
simple grazier and my sheep would miss me
if I didn’t go back to them.
When communication has been estab-
lished by transmitting the call-sign, the
message is spelled out; then a switch is
thrown and this brings the receiving portion
into operation. One then listens for spoken
confirmation or instructions from the Clon-
curry mother station; in this way it should
be possible for satisfactory communication
to be made by those with only a rudi-
mentary knowledge of Morse and the art
of sending. Three small dry batteries of
the telephone type, three wireless valves
and two neon lamps with a complete set of
automatic switches, amp. and volt meters,
and a Piezo-electric crystal on which the
success of the whole system depends, com-
plete the compact installation. A refine-
ment is a wired cylinder which is reversed
when it is desired to receive ordinary broad-
casting.
A practical religion I call it which helps
along such work. Apart from its primary
purpose, think what it means from the
defence point of view. An invader could
probably dislocate all telephone and tele-
graph systems, but he would have to capture
each individual transmitter before he could
put a stop to the part these sets could
play. Qantas is investigating them with
the view of installation on all passenger
‘planes, and they will doubtless be of great,
utility in the working of that service. Then
there is the training of young Australians
in Morse signalling. Boys of 14 will soon
become adepts, just as the youngsters did
who used to semaphore so efficiently to
Australian transports in years of war now
long gone by.
Mr. Treager says that the whole could
not be termed an invention, as it is “simply
apparatus designed to suit the conditions
existing in West Queensland.” He would
make a poor go-getter; but I predict that
the work these young Australians are doing
at Cloncurry and elsewhere will in good
time earn them, if not unsought fame, at
any rate the gratitude of many a distressed
dweller in Australia’s loneliest places.
ULICK BROWNE.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Bar and the Bench.
In a recent case before the English Court
of Appeal in which an interlocutory appeal
was dismissed with costs, the Lord Justices
made some remarks which, in view of the
heavy costs in a recent Sydney bribery case,
may well be digested here.
In the English case Mr. Jowett, K.C., now
Attorney-General in the MacDonald team,
appeared for the respondent; that is, he
appeared but was not called upon, and re-
mained mute. For this service the K.C.
expected a rich fee. Lord Justice Scrutton
demanded: “Why, what has he done?”
Thereupon Jowett, K.C., explained that his
presence was a counterpoise to that of an-
other learned K.C. who had been briefed for
the appellant. Scrutton, L.J., in dismissing
the appeal with costs, ordered that the fees
of the spectacular counterpoise should not
be allowed. In this decision Lord Justice
Sankey, since promoted to the high office
of Lord Chancellor, concurred, and in doing
so expressed some anxiety for the welfare
of the legal trade. “The huge fees of
leading counsel,” he remarked, “are killing
litigation.” People were too much disposed,
in his Honor’s opinion, to go to those
members of the Bar whose reputation stood
highest when much less expensive men
would serve their purposes quite as well.
But is the public wholly responsible for
that? Does it not largely arise from the
weakness of the Bench—not as a whole, but
in spots? When men who ought to be on
the Bench remain at the Bar, and when men
who are vastly their inferiors are on the
Bench, it is almost inevitable that the strong
men will either exercise far too great an
influence over some of the Judges or (what
amounts to almost the same thing), will be
talked of as'doing so. In those circum-
stances it is also inevitable that the repu-
tedly strong men will be rushed with briefs.
And, of course, the greater the rush the
greater the fee.
There seems to be a way out of this
morass. The State should be entitled to
call unon any man who has been admitted
to the Bar and has practised there for, say,
15 years to serve as a Judge, first of the
lower courts above the status of magistrates’
courts, and subsequently, if he has proved
to be a good Judge, of the higher courts.
The appointment should be in the hands not
of politicians, but of the sitting Judges,
who are much more likely to know the real
quality of the available counsel.
Whether the pay is enough is another
matter. If it isn’t it should be increased.
That is a small matter compared with the
necessity of getting for the Bench the very
best material at the Bar.
»
Was General McCay to Blame?
Dear Bulletin, —The question does not
resolve itself into the two points made bv
“X.X.X.” (B. 26/6/’29). He has omitted
the very pertinent point: Is General McCay
to blame for any omission or commission in
carrying out the order? This is really the
only question on which there is anything
left to argue about.
There was also the question: Should he
have protested against the order? If “a
soldier ( e.g., a divisional commander of
experience) may protest against an order
from a superior.” why should the same inno-
cuous privilege be denied to a soldier {e.g.,
a platoon commander of experience)? The
very vagueness of “X.X.X.’s” scheme of
those who may and those who may not
protest condemns it as unworkable in war.


THE SPENDTHRIFT’S OPERA.
“The Bruce Government is contributing at the rate of £2,000,000 per annum to the building of motor-speedways costing up to £28,000 a mile. It has been obliged to
retrench on national defence.”
BRUCE (sings): “I haven’t got room for you both, dear,
So I’m sending your rival away.”
The practice of Harington (Plumer’s
Chief of Staff) does not establish the right
of protest. On “X.X.X.’s” own showing,
Harington (who was the colleague, not
the superior, of Plumer’s immediate sub-
ordinates) was acting the good staff officer,
consulting the men on the spot to aid
Plumer in framing his orders. Generals
consult their subordinates, of course.
Monash held his famous conference before
Hamel on August 8, not to consider whether
or not he would attack, but to settle details;
and he might with propriety have con-
sulted his subordinates on the main ques-
tion. After the order for the attack had
been issued, however, any subordinate
“resolutely protesting” would undoubtedly
have received his S.N.L.R.
Was Fromelles impregnable? “X.X.X.’s”
“impregnable for such forces” merely begs
his own question. The strength of Fromelles
has been overestimated in the shadow of
the appalling loss we suffered there, and
failure was due primarily to the abject in-
activity of the Australians’ right-flanking
troops. We know that Mont St. Quentin
was not impregnable. We may think, but
we cannot be certain, that Fromelles was.
We can, however, reach a decision on the
question of the right of protest and of
having the protest recorded. If this right
exists, it is so important, so far-reaching,
and has such an influence on discipline that
it cannot have been overlooked in the very
complete Army Acts, King’s Regulations,
Manuals of Military Law and other official
publications. If it is not there, it does
not exist. If it does exist, I await chapter
and verse. —Yours, etc., T.T.T.
♦
Women in Hospitals.
A report has been issued by the committee
appointed by. the London University to
consider the vexed question of women
students in London hospitals. The com-
mittee dismisses the case against coeduca-
tion: “We are unable to see any valid argu-
ment, on the merits, against the provision
of coeducation in medicine. The prepos-
session of the universities is in favor of such
coeducation.” The committee, however, “in
view of the fact that there is a very definite
dislike on the part of some men to work
with women,” recommends that the medical
schools should be divided into three groups
—one reserved for men and the second for
women; the third to permit attendance of
both men and women. So that the com-
mittee’s dying prejudices, or, as some would
have it, instincts, modify the decisiveness
of its judgment.
Igi spite of the modification, this is a
definite victory, although it suggests that
man still considers himself free to dictate
to woman what she should or should not do.
But the bitterness of the early part of
the conflict has mellowed into an under-
standing that should mean steady progress
and the opening of many other doors to
woman, provided she remembers her “metier
de femme,” as Stevenson calls it, and keeps
her commonsense.
Are Hospitals Callous?
“Anthony Gloster”: One sympathises with
“Intermediate H.” (B. 12/6/’29) even
whilst feeling that he rushed his fences a
little. His local doctor could and should
have told him something of hospital pro-
cedure. The only cases admitted quickly
to an ear, nose and throat ward are those
in which immediate operation is necessary.
Apparently his was merely antrum trouble.
In Sydney I first interviewed the super-
intendent in the afternoon. He diagnosed
nasal trouble of some sort, and gave me a
letter to a specialist (I chose him myself
from a list of half a dozen). I paid the
consultation fee (£2 25.). If I had been a
pauper the super, would have indicated it.
He diagnosed the case and gave me a note
to the superintendent. I went back to the
hospital, and was told to come in a month’s
time, when a bed would be ready. This
specialist operates there one afternoon a
week, and sometimes has half a dozen or
more operations.
I was eight days in and received very
kindly attention. After I left I went back
several times for treatment, and twice to
see the specialist.
My hospital expenses were assessed at
between £3 and £4, and when I went to the
office to be discharged I was told the
amount and invited to contribute part or
all of it. This was all it was even hinted
I might pay, not only for my stay in the
hospital and the after-treatment, but for a
necessary operation which would cost any-
thing up to £5O if undertaken privately.
♦
The Men Who Make the Noise.
Nearly a year ago The Bulletin pub-
lished this warning of how things were
shaping on the northern (N.S.W.) coal-
fields :
“Twenty or thirty militants in a branch
union or miners’ lodge of four or five hundred
members gain control. In the Central Coun-
cil for every 25 members a lodge is entitled
to one vote, so that a lodge with 800 mem-
bers has a voting strength of 32. Yet de-
cisions reached at the meeting of that lodge
may be determined by no more than 25
members, while in the case of a lodge of
much smaller membership, say 60, there may
be 50 present. Thus an attendance of 50
members in the one case has a voting strength
of only two at the Central Council, whereas
in the other instance an attendance of 25
carries a voting strength of 32.”
At that time a penalty for non-attend-
ance at lodge meetings was talked of, but
nothing came of it, like so many proposed
and alleged disciplinary measures of the
Miners’ Union. D. J. Davies, general sec-
retary, disclosed to the Coal Commission
that even in cases where a member may
have been fined for causing a stoppage at
a colliery and the fine (£5) paid, “for sym-
pathy reasons” it might and probably
would be refunded by the Central Council.
A big percentage of those now remaining
in the coal towns are militants—and
“broke.” Hence the noise, sometimes
aided by a scratch band. Most of the
moderates are away, having migrated to
lake- and river-side cottages—and princi-
pally by private car. Like the modem
shearer, the sensible miner does not squan-
der his big earnings during good working
periods. A car and week-end house are
tangible evidences of that. Aided by Gov-
ernment and other relief, and endowment
in many cases, he has sufficient to live on
until work resumes.
It is Brother Shout-and-Bang who
stays behind—mostly because he has
no car, no week-ender and no re-
serve funds—endeavoring to gain lime-
light. A few of his ilk convene meetings
and try to stir things up; and occasionally
a leading Communist makes a trip to the
coalfields—expenses paid. Anxious for sen-
sational copy, certain dailies write up the
militants’ sayings. Read next day, the story
gives to the uninitiated the impression that
the views published are those of the bulk
of the miners.
Actually, the average mine-worker is a
decent, mild citizen, anxious to get as much
work as possible, with the object of joining
the ranks of his fellow-workers whose fru-
gality has yielded home, car and perhaps
week-ender. How to ensure that he shall
go about his vocation with reasonable con-
tinuity is a question to which Miners’ Fed-
eration officials should devote themselves.
But discipline seems entirely lacking. At
a time when the sun was shining very brightly
for its men, Wallarah colliery was idle on
a recent Monday and Tuesday. Work was
resumed on Wednesday, but a further stop-
page occurred on Thursday, because of some
trifling dispute.
*
AVhy Arbitration Fails.
Dear Bulletin, —As big a reason as any is
because the control, if not the management,
of so many industries is in the hands of
financiers, not industrialists. I was for
several years the secretary of a small
federation of very highly-skilled workers.
Our hours were absolutely unregulated, and
our wages, by an agreement among the
employers, were severely limited. There
was no classification of duties. A man
might be controlling the whole staff one
week and—here I speak somewhat figura-
tively—running errands for a junior the
next.
There came a time when we felt we were
being ground between the upper and nether
millstones. We formed a union. Our
attempt to get to the Arbitration Court
was assailed with all the legal horse, foot
and guns the financiers who controlled the
industry could bring into action. Our legal
rights were clear enough, established by
statute law, but we had to spend a lot of
money and a lot of time before we got a
Judge to say we could go ahead. Then
we held a conference with the employers.
We didn’t meet anyone of our own craft
there—merely a collection of lawyers,
bankers and other sorts of moneylenders.
Whenever we made a concession they
grabbed it. Whenever we asked for some
improvement on our very inequitable con-
ditions they smiled blandly and suggested
we were very lucky to be employed at all.
Little concessions that meant a tremendous
amount to us ana wouldn't nave added a
cent to the wages-bill—some of them would
have saved money—were rejected by men
who knew nothing at all about the details
of our craft, and had no appreciation of our
traditions, and no policy save to make us
work as hard and for as little money as
was humanly possible.
A wait of several months, and we got
to the Court, which granted us—because
we knew our case and the other side didn’t
known theirs—practically everything we
asked for and complimented us on our
moderation. The Judge had been a fellow-
craftsman —the only one we struck in all
those months of negotiation. Our award
worked well and gave satisfaction to both
sides until we applied for a renewal and
came before a Judge who knew nothing but
law, and who fitted us out with a set of
astounding clauses that he really believed
would help us, but which didn’t mean what
he thought they did and which have been a
source of friction and dissatisfaction—dis-
satisfaction on both sides—ever since.
I’m strong for arbitration—compulsory
arbitration—but I stipulate for an expert
tribunal.—Yours, Old Unionist.
♦
The Future of Some Britons.
Negotiations are afoot in London and
Washington which will affect the lives and
fortunes of 20,000 Brtishers, many of them
Australians. The question is whether the
foreign settlement in Shanghai is to be
handed over to the Nationalist Government
or remain, a little oasis of alien privilege
(though an oasis as big, rich, prosperous
and modern as Sydney), in the ocean oi
Chinese humanity.
There are all sorts of sides to the prob-
lem. Many British merchants are ready to
take, or oblige their employees to take, the
risks involved in going under Celestial juris-
diction, the reason being that the Germans
who lost all their Chinese privileges are
reported to be outdistancing their Western
rivals.
On the other side are those who sincerely
believe that the proposal will not only be
bad for China, as removing the one shining
example of civic honesty and modern
efficiency in the country, but will mean a
wholesale exodus of European capital and
population. Shanghai itself, they say, will
go down in a welter of disorder and corrup-
tion. The reply made to this is that
Shanghai under foreign jurisdiction is
already one of the most lawless communi-
ties on the face of the globe, and that the
state of many walled cities in the interior
is beatific by comparison.
There is no precedent in history for hand-
ing over a city as large and modern as
Shanghai to a people whose civilisation is
so alien, and whose ideas of the sacredness
of private property are so different from our
own that they can run a road through
a man’s house without giving him a dollar
compensation. Nevertheless, the experiment
was tried in a small way by Britain at
Hankow, and, though at first it threatened
to end disastrously, things are rubbing along
fairly satisfactorily.


GAF.LIQ
<Jt>3 Wb.isW
''SiPtsx£suHk.
■mm
RED, WHITE and BLUE
WHISKY
Gaelic Special Reserve
DEARER —BUT BETTER
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO., LTD.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN AGENTS: JAMES HENTY & CO., 499 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: B. SEPPELT & SONS, LTD., 444 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
iSMSUc*
igMcmS
HIT
POLITICAL
POINTS
F. H. Francis, who was Ilenty’s M.11.R.
in two Parliaments (1919-25), proposes to
Francis wants
to come back.
stand , for Balaclava.
He was a supporter of
W. M. Hughes, and a
Hughes man (not
necessarily Francis)
could win the seat on
the Defence issue
if the Little Dig-
ger made the most of
the opportunity with
which the Bruce-Pages
have blunderingly pre-
sented him —the best
he has had, or is likely
to have, of regaining
his old prestige and
eminence. But Hughes
has been strangely
slow to exploit the
feeling against the
Defence cuts, which
have moved even the
S. M. Herald and the
Brisbane Courier to
anger. He seems
more intent on saving
Federal Arbitration.
Yet the public doesn’t
care two straws for
Federal Arbitration.
Just when the British Ministry is inviting
its Russian brother to return to England
in full diplomatic rig and be embraced and
slobbered over, the Chinese Government has
decided that the tricky nuisance from Mos-
cow is more than flesh and blood can bear.
It has closed the offices of the big Russian
trading concerns in Manchuria on the fami-
liar ground that they are centres of Bolshevik
propaganda, and that the staffs, which are
to be shunted back home, consist of poorly-
disguised Communist officials who won’t
leave other people’s affairs alone. There is
talk of war as usual, but Stalin and Co.
are more “blow” than performance where
a sizeable antagonist is concerned.
The N.S.W. and Queensland Railway
Departments spent 34 million pounds more
than they earned last year, N.S.W.’s share
being two millions. It has become the
fashion to blame motor competition for these
staggering losses, but motor competition
didn’t prevent the S. African State railways
reporting a surplus of £330,000 for 1928-29 or
the Canadian National lines claiming one of
seven million dollars. Not motor competition
but politics is the curse of our Government
railway systems.
Although pliant on the guaranteeing of
rural freezing works the McPhersons (Vic.)
swear that they will not be so yielding on
other matters Involving expenditure unless
convinced that the expenditure is warranted.
They can afford to be firm, if they watch
their steps, as few members want a general
election this year. The Nationalists now
number 20, including the Speaker; of the
other members, 17 helped to turn the Labor
Government out, and 28 are Laborites.
Snowden, the Labor Chancellor of the
Exchequer, threatened last week to do away
with the British preferences on sugar and
dried fruits, and Dr. Marion Phillips, M.P.,
“speaking as an Australian,” applauded him,
saying that Australians “could tell the dif-
ference between the synthetic syrup of
Imperial preference and the real honey of
genuine co-operation”—whatever that may
be. Pity the lady is so ill-informed. Thanks
to the preferences, Australians sold £1,300,000
worth of dried fruits, £361,800 worth of
canned fruits and £3,645,300 worth of sugar
in the U.K. last year, in addition to
£993,800 worth of wine. The threat to take
them away is a threat of ruin to thousands
of Australians who fought Britain’s battles
■while Snowden and MacDonald were spout-
ing pacifism on the home front.
New regulations for
Blarney’s force -which
Chief Sec. Argyle has
induced Vic. Cabinet
to sanction provide
for promotion by
merit, with safeguards
against favoritism, and
for appeals, while the
boards set up by
Prendergast are to go.
Theoretical and prac-
tical examinations are
prescribed, and it is
claimed that the best
J. Hops will under
the new arrangement
have a chance of ris-
ing to the top. Sixty
per cent, of the police
have been admitted
since the strike in
November, 1923.
The Tas. licensing
law is so hard to ad-
minister that it is the
despair alike of
Bung, John Hop and
Cold Tea, Bars close,
Police Chief
Blarney.
at 6 p.m., but premises may be kept open
till 10 p.m. To prevent an occasional beer
or whisky slipping in among the soft drinks
served to visitors between those hours is
humanly impossible. But the police, though
traduced by fanatics like Ockerby, M.H.A.,
do their best, and during the past year had
33 licensees and 231 others charged with
breaches of the Act.
What a little timely firmness can do has
been shown in the case of the talkies. It
was recently given out that showmen instal-
ling an Australian-made outfit, the inven-
tion of a Sydney man, would be refused sup-
plies of film, talkies being an American mon-
opoly. This was too much for even the
Bruce-Page Government. Customs Minister
Gullett threatened retaliation. The film in-
terest is very vulnerable, in taxation matters
especially, and Gullett’s threat was imme-
diately effective. Firm after firm hastened
to announce that there would be no boycott
as far as it was concerned.
Recent disclosures as to the Sydney
G.P.O.’s queer relations with bookmakers —
five telephones supplied to a convicted s.-p.
merchant and secret lines laid to other dens
—have been followed by the discovery of
three registered bookies among the staff. As
a rule, the Post Office reserves its patronage
for lawless members of the fraternity. This
unholy alliance not only deprives the country
of a large amount of revenue (from amuse-
ment- and income-taxes, license fees, stamp
duties and tote-commission), but accounts in
part for the chronic losses on a concern which
shows substantial profits everywhere else.
Shocked at the discovery that France is
years behind in its payments for 80,000,000
pounds’ worth of war material which the
Doughboys left on the Western Front rather
than hump it back across the Atlantic, the
Hoover Administration has insisted on Poin-
care paying up by August 1. Poincare says
it is imposs—ible. Perhaps the best wav
out would be to ask Uncle to come and col-
lect the goods, as the time-payment man does
with the pianola when the instalments are
not met. Of course, there is always the
other t.-p. possibility, that France has sold
the stuff to someone else.
Maoriland’s Parliament goes in for obser-
vances which puzzle new members. One of
these is the moving by the Priminister of the
first reading of the Expiring Continu-
ance Bill, which comes before the Address-
in-RepTy and disappears from the order
paper after the motion has been carried. It
is merely an assertion of a Parliamentary
right which is jealously guarded.
Ex-Premier Lang is back in the field of
controversy, with one foot in his mouth, as
usual. Hirelings of the capitalistic press
accused him of buying a farm on the
Il'awkesbury and thus revealing himself as a
capitalist. Lang hotly denied the charge,
pointing out that he got the farm cheap
and hoped to sell it for a lot more. That
makes him out a profiteer—in the bright
lexicon of the new Laborism an even more
loathsome specimen?
Glowery, of the Country Progs., tackled the
McPhersons in Vie. Assembly for not making
it difficult for Queensland frozen and chilled
beef to be sold in Melbourne shops. Attor-
ney-General Macfarlan replied that the Labor
Government’s regulations directing the label-
ling of frozen and chilled meat were invalid ;
and it also came out that during the Labor
regime the Health Department was instructed
not to enforce the regulations till a Health
Bill, then before Parliament, was passed.
Glowrey had to seek the aid of Allan’s Coun-
try group before he could move for the
adjournment of the House; Labor sat tight,
being, nettled at the notion of anybody get-
ting in front of Hogan on the day he was to
speak on the Address-in-Reply.
The absorption of goldfields Labor pocket
boroughs by neighboring electorates of the
same persuasion has -led to the Westralian
A.L.P. authorising Lands Minister Troy and
Chesson, M.L.A., to stand for one of the
enlarged divisions and Lambert and Gorboy,
M.’sL.A., for another. A touching regard
for vested interests determined this decision ;
all the same, it will, encourage Labor critics
of the pre-selection business, especially if
the Lambert-Corboy ticket beats the locally
formidable Cockies. Pre-selection got a
showing-up in the Denison (Tas.) Federal
electorate last year, when the preferences of
Labor-candidate Jude put Culley in, though
Gellibrand had been reckoned a certainty. But
without it the party bosses would lose half
their power, so (except when it is expedient
to sanction a departure) they cling to it
like vultures to carrion.
Just before the Bruce-Pages had to
announce their losses for the year, £2,338,000,
the patronising Priminister scolded employ-
ers for not disclosing their profits. Then, in
a characteristic sentence :
“I suggest that the devising of means whereby
information could be made available as to the profits
on industry and the return on capital is one of the
most pressing problems for consideration and solution
by both employers and employees.”
Well, there is nothing to prevent the gentle-
man going further and publishing an annual
return of large incomes, with the Common-
wealth taxes paid, after the IJ.S.A. fashion.
He says himself there are only 35,000 tax-
payers getting from £750 p.a. up, so the in-
formation could be compressed within the
compass of a House of Reps, district roll.
Such a return might show that the biggest
incomes are enjoyed by investors and specu-
lators who employ comparatively little labor
and pay comparatively small taxes.
If Bruce and Page had any imagination
the latest adventure of Kingsford Smith and
his companions would convince them that
the time for Defence economies is past. One
flight of 20 hours took the party from Aus-
Kings ford Smith.
tralia to the
mainland o f
Asia. On the
way across it
flew above
Sunda Strait,
where quarter
of a century
ago a Japan-
ese squadron
was poking
round in search
of Rozhest-
vCnsky. In a
little over
three days’
actual flying
it was over
A f ghanistan,
where the
Soviet c a rri-
paign against
“British im-
perialism” is
in full blast.
On the twelfth day out from Derby, stops
included, Kingsford Smith was in London.
Maurice Blackburn managed to win the
second Labor ballot for Clifton Hill —the
first was upset—but he was only 30 votes
to the good in a four-figure poll. Blackburn
is opposed to horse- and pony-racing on Wed-
nesdays, so the people who get their living
by going to the races or hanging round bet-
ting shops have sworn to drive him out of
public life. It counts for nothing with these
gentry that Blackburn is a brilliant Univer-
sity man. a reader, a thinker and a front-
rank Parliamentarian, commanding the re-
spect of men of all parties. His colleague
Cotter retained the Richmond nomination,
In this case also there was another ballot.
A British Board of Trade committee
reports that the textile industries need Pro-
tection badly, since foreign goods are being
shipped to England at prices with which
the British toiler can’t compete. The Ram
Mac Cabinet, however, put the report in the
ash receptacle, and swore by Adam Smith
and all its other gods that there will be an
extensive removal of duties, in addition to
the promised increase of wages. The aboli-
tion of the duties on tea, cocoa, chocolate,
coffee, chicory, dried fruits and sugar will
mean a loss of £24,000,000 a year. And all
the duties on manufactured goods are to
perish in the same bonfire.
A. C. Willis, who was Lang’s Upper
House Minister, introduced a bit »of uncon-
scious humor into
the dreary N.S.W.
coal wrangle by
telling the British
Miners’ Federation,
in support of a
plea for an em-
bargo on supplies
for Australia, that
“the Government is
fighting the min-
ers.” There are
two Governments
concerned, and —
largely because of
the idiotic strikes
which have wreck-
ed the export trade
in coal —both art;
in financial straits.
Yet Bruce (deficit,
£2,338,000) has
offered a bounty of
Is. per ton on coal
from the disaffected
Willis barkin’.
district, and has yielded to the demand for
a Royal Commission with expensive lawyers,
their hills footed by the taxpayers, to repre-
sent the miners. Bavin is sharing the cost
of the interminable inquiry, and has pro-
mised to take 2s. per ton off the railway
charges on coal (railway deficiency,
£2,000.000). Meanwhile he is paying single
miners a dole and family men two doles, the
other being called child endowment. Fight-
ing the miners !
Poor old China, though it is alleged to
have got settled government again, has its
old habitual famine. Corpses in tens of
thousands are mentioned, and droves of live
people who look as if they would be better
corpsed. China is, after an intense fashion,
what our worst Freetraders want to make
Australia. It exports mostly raw materials
and imports manufactured wares, but it
hasn’t Australia’s borrowing opportunities
to keep the jag going. The ill-luck of a
closely-settled agricultural land, even a rich
one, is that in a bad year it may be short
of local things to eat, and simultaneously
very short of imported things for other pur-
poses.
Hugo Hirst, one of Bruce’s “Big Four,”
says that “harmful propaganda has led many
Australians to think that Britain is ruined.”
Certainly the minor Australian globe-trotter,
impressed by the cold and the crowds, some-
times returns from Britain with a tale of
impending disaster, but he does no harm. To
the mass of Australians Britain is the rich
country which digs out hundreds of mil-
lions of loan money to help Australia on its
troubled way. It didn’t quite answer to
expectations' in the great coal-strike year,
when the Commonwealth went borrowing in
New York, but that was an exception.
Hoarc, the northern N.S.W. mine leader,
said he believed in lawbreaking in the in-
terests of his class—-“that is what has made
history; breaking laws,” he declared. In
the Vic. Assembly years ago John Hancock
said much-the same thing. “Thank God for
the sacred right of revolution!” John ex-
claimed. “Aye,” said old Duncan Gillies, sit-
ting opposite, “and thank God also for the
sacred right of hanging!”
N.S.W. Minister Ball, speaking on behalf
of Buttonhole, who represents Bavin,
declared that “if necessary, drastic action
will be taken to prevent intimidation or
interference” in the timber strike; “the Gov-
ernment will not tolerate any section of the
community taking the law into its own
hands.” Still the Government has tolerated
just that thing for six months. Picketing
and violent interference have been in full
blast all the time. Loud promises that
violence will be done to police who arrest
“bashers” and to judges and magistrates who
trv them have left the Wet Blotting Paper
Ministry torpid. The State is spotted with
imported conspirators who are ripe for de-
portation, yet they still howl at large. And
now that the strike bosses have publicly
announced that “massed picketing” will
break out shortly with renewed fury, and
meetings have been called to arrange the
proposed assault and ill-usage, Ball has been
moved to say that his crowd will strike a
fearsome attitude, “if necessary.”
[For matter which has to be signed, S. H. Prior,
J. E. Webb and James Edmond, all of 214 George-
street North, Sydney, share the blame.]
THE NARKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“When the N. S. Wales Parliament meets next
month there will be a strong Opposition, some members
being already stimulated to wrath by the prospect
of losing their seats under the new Redistribution
Act.”—S. M. Hekald.
If you try to rob a woman of her lover,
Or a tigress of her whelps to dispossess,
You arc reasonably certain to discover
You’re the subject of resentment, more or
less.
But you’ll raise an even fiercer ebullition,
And encounter animosity complete
If you seek to separate a politician
(Especially a chap in Opposition)
From his seat.
Resign yourselves, my friends, to being
slandered !
He will take his oath with many a choking
sob
That boundaries are being gerrymandered
To sever him unfairly from his job.
Ho will spatter you with vehement invective,
Your admirable motives he will scout,
Insisting that your obvious objective
Is to hurl him from his eminence elective —
“Bump him out!”
You may tell the glories of Redistribution, .
And on quotas mathematical dilate,
But his bitterness will show' no diminution,
There’ll be not the least abatement in his
hate.
You can never shake his passionate conviction
That when Governments constituencies
trim,
And subject them to enlargement or con-
striction,
There is anything excepting crucifixion
Meant for him.
You may try to fleece a Jew of his pos-
sessions,
Or a canny Scot of Harry Lauder’s clan,
But you’ll never leave more sinister impres-
sions
Upon the mind of any fellow’-man
Than w'hen the seat he reckoned in his
pocket
He discovers swiftly vanishing from view.
You may take your oath you couldn’t stay or
block it,
But, if you uphold the bill, be sure he’ll
rock it
Into you.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Anzac”: General J. O. Paton, C. 8., was
not the last man to leave Gallipoli (L>.
3/7/’29). The honor belongs to a tall thin
naval officer known as “Smiling Mac”—l
forget his real name, if I ever heard it. The
last soldiers to leave were the Indian R.A.
from Chocolate Hills and the officers and
men who blew up Russel’s Top. These men
were guided from the trench to the beach
by the officer in question, and embarked on
the last lighter which left Milos Pier. “Smil-
ing Mac” then boarded a waiting naval
launch with a machine-gun on his shoulder,
insisting on taking his curio with him. Gen-
eral Johnston, R.A., N.Z. Division, was on
board the destroyer which took the launch s
occupants to Mudros. He heard about the
gun and took charge of it. I was one of
several who saw the General note this oni-
cer’s name, and nobody on board had any
WELL AHEAD OF THINGS.
MOTHER (going to have dinner in town, and a theatre after ): “Now. Beryl,, you look
after baby, and mind to say your prayers before you get into bed."
BERLY: “That’s all right, mummy. I said ’em ’sarfer, an’ they're up in Heaven by now."
doubt about his being the last man to leave
Anzac I saw and recognised “Smiling Mac’
in Pitt-street, Sydney, about nine years ago.
* * * *
“Noo Zee” : Of course there was an earth-
quake baby, Murchison being the birthplace.
The infant was just due when the shake
came. The house, which stands on a slight
rise literally bounced six feet off its piles,
and remained resting at an angle of 15
degrees All four chimneys came down with
a rush" every window was broken and two
400-gallon tanks at the back door fell on
the lean-to roof. In spite of everything the
nurse stuck gamely to her work, mot her and
child both “did well.” and were biou o lit
down to Nelson eight days after the event.
* * * *
“Gouger”: When our transport reached
Aden we were greeted with the glad news
that 100 cigarettes could be nnd
bob. I loaded up my k.tbag with 2000, and
before we reached Cairo it was full of a fine
yellowish dust consisting mostly of
dung. At Cairo we bought alleged Turkish
cigarettes, made in filthy mud hovels out ot
street bump rs. straw and other ingr. dients,
with a trifle of genuine tobacco thrown in
as a makeweight. They smelt abominably,
and would make any tram or restaurant hum
like a dogbox. There were good brands ot
tobacco to be had, of course, if you could
pay and knew where to buy. The Gyppo girls
were always ready to tell you. I can see
the little henna fingered devils now, coiled
on those divans like gilded kittens, wit.i
wisps of smoke daintily ascending from their
tiny gold-tipped cigarettes.
* * * *
“Hermes”: The record of 44 operations
undergone by a Canadian major (B.
10/7/’29) is beaten by a Lane Cove
(N.S.W.) man, R. E. Lording, who has been
on the operating-table 51 times as the result
of war injuries. Enlisting on his 16th birth-
day with the original 30th Batt., A.I.F. (his
number was 81), he was wounded by shrap-
nel three times in the ill fated Fromelles
affair in July, 1916. As a result of his in-
juries the surgeons have had to amputate
his right arm (on his 49th trip to the table),
his left lung has had frequent attention and
portions of six ribs have been removed. About
two years ago he paid his 52nd visit _ to the
theatre, but this time it was appendicitis.
* * * *
“Ex-Prisoner”: In the German prison
camp, Minden (1916-18), the prisoners under-
went a quarterly medical inspection, after
which they were assigned to the occupations
for which German officialdom regarded them as
most fitted. To puzzle our captors as well
as to avoid as much hard work as possible
most of us assumed callings for which there
was no demand. Among the vocations 1
heard alleged were dog-trainers and mile-
stone inspectors. Personally, I was a golf
professional. On one inspection when we were
all stripped bare, the heavyweight in front
of me insisted that he had been a jockey
in civil life. I collected a week’s clink for
laughing.
* * * *
“Bill O’C.” : Even in New York a traveller
mav acquire something for» nothing. As I
was walking along the crowded “Great
White Way” at midnight a dinner-fork came
hurtling like a meteorite from a' fifth, or
fiftieth, storey of a skyscraper. It pierced
my- hat— through the rim, fortunately for
TOe _ an d carried it to the pavement to which
the lid might have been pinned if the side-
walk had not been so hard. I had no sooner
retrieved my property and the missile than
I heard the inevitable little Yid at my elbow
asking, “What are you going to do wit de
fork?” “Keep it,” I answered shortly. Iss
it real silver, perhaps?” he inquired eagerly.
“Don’t know,” I replied, pocketing my sou-
venir. I h'ft him staring with increduLty
at my indifference and envy of my luck.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: A diver recently
recover d from the mud of Sydney Harbor
a ba<r containing £250 worth of jewels and
£75 in A woman on a departing
steamer had dropp'd the treasure overboard
whilst waving good-bye. A man who re-
gard d it as necessary to wave a sTiraf of
not"<s in tlm dr as lm farewell d his fri nds
would probably be regarded as a lunatic and
treated accordingly; but due allowances must
be made for a pocketless woman. Quite
recently a taxi-driver took to the police a
purs? containing mixed wealth, to the extent
of £SSO, which a lady passenger had left in
his cab. And there was the case of the lady
passenger to America who dropped her pass-
port in mid-ocean during the war when pass-
ports were the most precious articles in one’s
baggage.
ALL BUT.
“And are Bertie and his wife happy these
days?”
“Oh, wonderfully happy. They’re just waiting
for their decree to be made absolute,
you know.”
“Kewpie”: Earthquake lessons in M.L.
are likely to create a demand for reinforccd-
concrete chimneys and a more severe style ot
architecture. The last big shake has given
the brick chimney in earthquake areas a
death blow; when the earth heaves the bricks
break their moorings, and no tiled roof will
stop the fall if a chimney topples. Another
th ; ng demonstrated by the recent disturbance
is that the ornamentations are the first part
of a stricken building to crash to rum.
The indications are that M.L. architecture,
hitherto much weighted by tradition will be
forced to abandon the pious fakes and rubble-
filled pil’ars with which it now abounds.
The smitten districts were not considered
as strictly a ’quake area, and Maonlanders
have been forced to realise that general pre-
cautions are necessary throughout the
country.
*,* * *
“Shep”: T was parked in a Blighty hos-
pital alongside one of those heart-broken
Dialers whose fiancees had adopted safety*
first tactics and married stay-at-homes.
He got the blow in the form of a newspaper
cutting containing an account of the wedd ng
festivities. His dejected announcement. Me
hint’s turned me down,” drew sympathy from
the wlio’e ward, especially the nurses. Y\ hen
one of them discovered him later re-immersed
in the press report, her heart went
out to him. “She’s not worthy of you, the
girl said consolingly. “Her be d—-d, replied
the jilted one. “It’s the list of P r e i ?"ts
I’m reading. Her old bloke’s come to light
with a fair-sized cheque that a man could do
a lot of celebratin’ with.” He remained un-
attached and gloomy for two whole days.
We then toasted his betrothal to a V.A.D.
* * * *
“Centurion”: Britain’s new Secretary for
War, Thomas Shaw, has expressed the inten-
tion of abolishing the Bank of England milr
tnry guard. For 150 years the Household
Brigade has furnished from its infantry
units a subaltern’s guard for this duty, and
the n’ghtly mounting is one of the sights ot
the city. Because of this special duty, the
Guards regiments are the only ones beside
the Royal Fusiliers —the City of London
Regiment—which may march within the citj
boundaries with fixed bayonets. The Bank
does its custodians well. Ihe sub. in com-
mand has sumptuous quarters and the pn-
vile<r? of inviting two friends to a dinner
prov’ded by the Bank each evening. The
old port served after the dinner is said to
be unequalled. It must be pretty decent
for a pal of the writer who attended one of
the dinners at the old Threadneedle-street
address told me he walked down the Bank
stops on his hands at three e. clock on a
winter morning “without turning a hair.
* * * *
“C B ” • Influence of the movies again? A
young girl got a job as a domestic in Wil-
liamstown (Vic.), and her employers were
so pleased with her that they left; everything
in h n r hands when they went joy riding m the
family fliw°r. In the end they returned to
find the maid had vanished, also all the finery,
jewellery and aids to feminine fr ailty m the
house and the sum of £5O. The damsel s
next appearance was at a more substantial
home, where the furs were finer, the jewel-
lery more expensive and the hard cash even
more plentiful. Thus the adventuress pro-
gressed in the social scale until she had
accumulated sufficient to abandon domestic
service and launch out as a woman of
f^sh Whrn finally caught, she was so
beautifully painted and marvellously pow-
d r'd and on the arm of such a nice young
dancing-partner, that evm the hardened
policeman were a little diffident about laying
hands on her. One of the little things that led
to her undoing was her magnificent tipping,
the head waiter in the smart hotel she ha
been natronising receiving within hair an
hour two gratuities that took liis breath away.
Surely that touch came from the movies.
* * *
“Smid”: Truth is sometimes rummier
than fiction. Dad. a widower, was a pros-
perous wheat and sheep cocky with two sons.
Jim, 34, and Bill. 27, who toiled on the faim
without wages satisfied that they would have
the place when their parent died. Jim came
under the spell of a school-mistress from the
city. Dad refused to sanction the marriage,
and Jim, not having a bran of his own, broke
off the engagement. The little school-marm
sued her lover for £lOOO for breach ot
promise, and won the case with flying colors.
Dad paid up. Bill used his nut and sympa-
thised with the sc-hool-mistress, and they be-
came engaged. Dad grudgingly gave consent
to their marriage, saying, ‘Might as well
keep the money in the family. Now BUI s
wife is in complete command of the old
home, which is minus Jim. He cleared out.
* * * *
“Erua” • The Maoriland police seemed to
be on the track of a great mystery the other
day when they were called in by a firm at
Palmerston North to open a box deposited
with tli.e holders several . years ago. The
first surprise was the discovery that the
■box contained a' small, elaborately-decorated
coffin and the second came when the opened
coffin was found to hold the mummified
remains of a little black spaniel.
* * *
“Harold Hardupp” : Saw a strange accident
in King-street (Sydney) of the sort which
tramway men will tell you is practically impos-
sible. A trammie, about to adjust the trolley-
pole which had jumped the wire, turned to
answer a question put by a passenger, and Ins
hand, groping blindly, caught the wire commu-
nicating between the two cars. In a moment he
was writhing and yelling with pain, unable
to release his hand until the power was cut
off. If he had got a full shock there would
have been no time for pain; as it was, he
was not seriously hurt, but two women
fainted on hearing his cries, thinking that
they came from someone under the tram, and
were taken to hospital. Tramway men will
tell you that the insulation of the. cars and
wires make this happening practically im-
possible; the only explanation is that the
victim had his foot over the metal above
the bell, and there was a small leak from
the wirf>s. 4
MY PLEA!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I go up to the Judgment Seat
And the scales are weighted down
(As is only proper and right and meet) _
With the things I am and the things I am t,
Who wasn’t cut out for a blooming saint,
I shall face the Judge’s frown
And I’ll say, “O Lord, I’m in grievous
plight
For the thoughts I fathered in black and
white; ■ .
But think of the things I didn’t write!
“The par suppressed and the verse unwrit
And the tales I would not tell
Should lighten my sentence a little bit
In the place where I spend eternity
(And there should be good company
In my particular hell).
Good Lord, ere into unending night
Igo for the things I did indite, _
Remember the things I didn’t write.
So I’ll take my gruel and stand my grill
For I’ve had my life and fling, _
And some was good and some of it ill,
And quite a lot of it bored me stiff.
But I don’t repine; it isn’t as if
I had no excuse to bring.
Lord, humbly before Thy Throne of Might,
When there’s nothing I’ve written left to
cite,
I’ll lay down all that I didn’t write.
N.S.W.
HYRAM.
CAMP SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Camped here beside the river,
I feel no loneliness.
Dame Nature, generous giver..
/With pleasant, soft caress
Of gracious trees has bound me,
And friendly waters’ croon,
And flooded , all around me
The welcome of the moon.
The very star-points glisten
A benediction fond,
And seem as if they listen
To hear my soul respond.
The .jesting spark-sliow’rs lave me
In aureoles of light,
And passing breezes wave me
A comradely “Good night.”
I hear the fairies playing
Among the dewy ferns;
Their silver laughter straying
My eager ear discerns:
Whiie pipes of Pan are blowing,
In liquid notes that lull—
A magic past all knowing
By those in cities dull.
Camped here beside the river,
I feel no loneliness,
For all the night’s a-quiver
With light and loveliness.
And wh°n God’s glad adorning
Of night-time is withdrawn,
I’ll see to-morrow morning
The wonder of Ilis dawn.
N.S.W.
HOMFREY BEALE.


“Strict Veg.” : Mrs. Agnes Fowler, a moder-
ately well-to-do widow of Caulfield (Vic.),
who died recently, left an unusual bequest
to Melbourne newsboys. It consists of her
diamond rings, a brooch and bracelet. The
lads who use the trams as selling-booths are
not expected to wear the goods, however.
They are to be sold' and the proceeds pre-
sented to the Newsboys’ Rest Home.
# * s *
“C.”: A bit of Canterbury Cathedral, hun-
dreds of years old, has been brought to Aus-
tralia for the foundation stone of the Angli-
can Cathedral of St. Mark, at Canberra. The
stone will be laid next Anzac Day. The
architecture designed is Romanesque, a type
common in southern Europe and without the
sombre touches of the Gothic so marked in
Australian churches. The Cathedral will face
Broughton-street, so named after the first
(and only) Anglican bishop of Australia.
The first section, a synod hall, will be used as
the church for some years. All religious
denominations have splendid sites in Can-
berra. The Baptists, Salvationists and
Methodists have already done some building,
and the Presbyterians have a manse ready
for John Walker, who has thus far collected
more than half the £BO,OOO required to build
the Church of St. Andrew. The R.C.’s are
preparing to build the first section of their
Spanisli-mission-style cathedral on one ‘of
the most commanding sites in the capital.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The new artificial island in the
Yarra, recently mentioned in The Bulletin,
narrowly escaped being baptised in blood.
Five men had just laid a charge, consisting
of 100 plugs of gelignite, under a rocky shelf,
about 10ft. down. After the diver had got
back into the boat, the powder-monkey lit
the fuse, tarred to burn under water. They
had 12 minutes to get to safety, and began
pulling unconcernedly enough. But the boat
THE QUESTIONS THE DEAR THINGS DO ASK.
“Does your headache trouble you, dear?”
“Well, you don’t suppose I’m pleased with it, do you?”
seemed to be twice as heavy as usual.
Glancing back one of the crew saw that the
line of bubbles from the fuse, instead of rising
straight up, was following them close astern.
Obviously, the fuse had fouled the keel, and
almost immediately the boat stopped alto-
.gether, jammed immovably on some obstacle,
Jack Johnstone, the diver, wasted no time.
Putting on. his dress, he went over the side
again and, groping along the fuse until he
felt his hand burning, cut the rope between
the creeping fire and the explosive. There
was just 25 seconds of fuse remaining, and
when the charges were touched off properly
a waterspout rose 150 ft. into the air.
* * * *
“Spare Cop”: The Tahiti, which struck
a reef at Papeete, but managed to reach
Sydney for dry-docking, figured in a curious
war-time incident. It was in the Indian
Ocean and a heavy sea was running, when
we on the Marathon were amazed to see the
little M.L. transport come dangerously close. A
rope was thrown from one vessel to the
other and a stout hawser was passed across;
presently a Digger on a boatswain’s chair
was passed over' from the Tahiti to the
Marathon. Then the ropes were cast off
and the vessels parted company again. It
soon transpired that an A.I.F. man who
was seriously ill on the Marathon had asked
if it would be possible for him to see his
brother, who was with the M.L. troops on
the Tahiti. The sick man grew better after
his brother’s arrival, and the latter rejoined
his own ship at Durban.
* * * *
“Trebor” : Encountered this notice over the
’phone in a small suburban pub: “Tele-
phone calls, 3d. each. All wrong numbers
charged for.” As it wasn’t an automatic,
it seemed as if the penalty would
fall on those who got too blith-
ered to read properly, and hence
didn’t know what they were in
for when they started to get their
number. I had two drinks, and
left feeling that the house was
hard on regular patrons.
* * *
“Wakatu”: Despite predictions
to the contrary, the Maoris ex-
tended a cordial welcome to the
German warship Emden. Besides
entertaining the officers with the
usual programme of hakas, pois
and songs, the natives invited Cap-
tain von Arnauld and his men to a
little hatchet-burying ceremony.
During the war a flag was flown
in the pah at Oliinemutu which
depicted a Maori warrior with
poised spear despatching a Hun
adversary. This flag has now
been removed from the staff and
placed in a casket with two pad-
locks. The key of one is held by
the German visitors, the Arawa
tribe keeping the other. The
casket has been placed in. the
Oliinemutu church, there to re-
main sealed until the Germans
and the Maoris meet again. Every-
one will hope that the church has
it for keeps; in any case, it will
be another exhibit round which
the guides may spin tales for
tourists.
The Sun-Herald service'sent the follow-
ing cable from London last week:—
Mr. A. P. Herbert, of Punch, abandoning his
customary humor, turned serious to tell his readers
the story of an audacious swindler, still at large,
and masquerading as D. B. Wyndham Lewes, the
noted humorist. The impostor, who had deluded the
actor Malcolm Keen, leading actresses and several
Guardsmen, induced Mr. Herbert to allow him to
sleep in his house, after telling a plausible story
about owning a private aeroplane, in which he invited
the ladies of a theatrical company to fly. The
Evening News now states that the impostor described
himself as an Australian in order to victimise the
London business representative of an Australian
weekly newspaper.
The first The Bulletin heard of this
interesting gentleman was on May 30—seven
wmeks ago—when it received from its London
office this cable :
Man named Wyndham Lewis is in London stating
he is editorially representing Bulletin. ' He is
visiting theatres, motor manufacturers and advertising
agents. Do you know him?
The Bulletin replied next day:—
Wyndham Lewis has no authority to represent
Bulletin in any capacity.
Later advices showed that “Wyndham
Lewis” had been very busy. Among other
things he was “the son of the proprietor of
The Bulletin.” Just what fun he got out
of some of his exploits isn’t obvious. “Under
pretext of w-riting editorials for the paper,
he has spent whole afternoons and evenings
in theatrical dressing-rooms, but has never
re-appeared as promised with the typescript
of the articles.” Of course, on hearing from
this end, Tiie Bulletin’s London office at
once advised all theatres, advertising agents,
etc.; and notices disclaiming Mr. Wyndham
Lewis were published. He is, it is hardly
necessary to say, quite unknown to this
paper. All the same, it looks like a fair
thing to thank him for the compliment of
picking The Bulletin as his magic key in
London. And it is still more of a compli-
ment to The Bulletin that the key worked
so well.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: The Pacific Science Congress,
which is really an Australian creation, has
had an interesting session in Java, where
the Dutch “did” their guests well, railway
passes being free and also drinks (within
limits). Members were flown over active
volcanoes, and an entrancing ethnological
item was provided in the native exhibition
in Batavia. Units of all the principal races
in the vast archipelago were collected and
placed in their appropriate settings. They
ranged from the aristocratic Menangkabau
Malay, with a iong civilisation behind him, to
the Battak, who not so long ago made his
aged relatives hang by ‘their hands from
trees and ate them if they were not able to
stay aloft long enough. A small cloud was
cast over the proceedings by an Alfur from
the wild interior of Celebes, who registered
his objection to being a scientific exhibit
by chopping off the head of a neighbor;
but otherwise the show was a series of vivid
illustrations. The congress was held at the
bright new model military capital of Ban-
doeng, set amidst marvellous mountain
scenery, and the subjects debated ranged from
the foretelling of eruptions to the safeguard-
A THORN WITH EVERY ROSE.
McHACUS: “So ye made a guid thing oot o’ marrying the widow?”
McTACUS: “Aye. But, mind ye, I had ta pay the meenister.”
ing of the coal resources of the Pacific. Two
Australians provided a fine spectacle, rival
scientists doing battle for their pet theories
when Prof. Radcliffe Brown, of Sydney,
challenged Professor Elliot Grafton Smith
on the burning question of totemism. But
more interesting to the multitude was a
showing of full-length X-ray photos of the
human body taken by a system that
had been developed by Dutch scientists at
Bandoeng.
* * * *
“A. 0.”: Passfield Corner, the place which
has supplied Sydney Webb, Britain’s newest
Labor lord, with a title, is far from being
“Oxmead’s” “intersection of two suburban
thoroughfares” (B. 3/7/’29). Actually it is
an old-world village near Liphook, in one of
the most picturesque parts of Hampshire.
Not far away is Haslemere, where Tennyson
once lived: the district has chajiged little
since the Laureate’s days.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: South Aus. was provided
with its latest sensation when a man strolled
info a quiet North Adelaide branch of the
Savings Bank at mid-day, pushed the staff
of two into the strong-room at revolver-
point, annexed over £5OO, and departed in
a waiting car, with a woman. The car and
its occupants had been well observed about
the city, and description was broadcast
everywhere, especially towards the Murray.
Later, a suspected car arrived at the river
punt at Wellington, blit, being challenged,
backed out and departed hastily, under
revolver fire. Later still, a constable near
the Blanchetown punt arrested without
trouble a man and woman in a punctured
car. It now remains to be seen if the
various incidents had any real connection
one with the other.
*
“Lex”: There is always a prevailing
fashion for suicide, and women can be
relied upon to follow it, whatever men may
do. In the pre-war years lysol
had a great run, though the doc-
tors stressed that no death was
more agonising. The Sydney
custom of “going over the Gap”
followed. Now both vogues
have been superseded in self-
destructive circles by the well-
advertised practice of putting
the head in a stove and turning
on the gas. Nobody can predict
what will be the next craze, but
one thing is certain: the new
line in auto-immolation will not
involve noise. A woman, how-
ever she may enjoy reading
about revolver-play in the
papers, will suffer life rather than end her
sorrows with a gun.
* # # *
“HamerV: The out-back chairman who in-
troduced a Parliamentary candidate with
“This bloke wants to have a yarn to yer”
(B. 10/7/’29) must be a relative of one I
encountered in Surry Hills (Sydney). He
started portentously with a prepared speech,
but broke down in the middle of it. In fact,
lie had got no further than the speaker’s
name when the break came; the finish was:
“ ’Ere the cow is : give ’im a fair go.”
* * * *
“Veldtselioen”: The Johannesburg Sun-
day Times (19/5/’29) prints a harrowing
story of the experiences in Australia of two
S’African lads—one of them with a Boer
name —who recently returned to the land of
dop and biltong as stowaways on, a timber
boat. One of the hapless youths tramped
for months about W.A. in a desperate but
mostly futile search for work, and, one reads
with interest, “suffered terrible hardships in
the thick bush country between Colly and
Wagin—a distance of 816 miles —there
being no water to be had, while the thou-
sands of kangaroos which , roam those parts
were a soui’ce of continual fear to me?”
Subsequently, after walking another 984
miles to Kalgoorlie, he had a trifle better
luck, securing a three weeks’ engagement in
carting water 13 miles from a dam to a
hotel (Bung presumably being still in ignor-
ance of Bigjohn Forrest’s water scheme),
At other parts of the narrative one gets
glimpses of the exile burning and clearing
800 acres of land in five weeks and working
himself out of a job by his go-fast policy,
and eking out a less strenuous but equally
precarious existence by “planting grass for
sheep 17 miles from Perth.” Mostly, one
gathers, he. lived on ’roo meat in places
where the flies ate out horses’ eyes. Several
Australians resident in South Africa have
written to the victimised newspaper to sati-
rise this clotted idiocy, but it hardly reads
like a bit of deliberate leg-pulling.
“Ah Kee Moh”: A London cable
announces the “discovery” in H'onan, n.-w.
China, of an isolated community which
has professed the Jewish faith and followed
the Jewish ritual as far back as its records
go. Actually, the existence of these people
has been known for many years, and the
China Inland Mission, which has many Aus-
tralians on its staff, has been in touch
with them for a considerable time. H'ow
they or their forebears got there no one can
say, but it is asserted that many of them
are red-haired and that the community is
avoided by its Chinese neighbors. Certainly
a red-haired Chinaman who is a Jew into
the bargain hardly suggests himself, even
to the unheeding, as an object to fraternise
with.
* * * *
“Pomegranate”: “Cobber,” the word so
abhorrent to N.S.W. Judge Curlewis, is good
Australian nowadays (B. 10/7/ : 29), but it
is almost certainly of Hebrew origin. It
is less well known (probably because no
K.C. has sprung the word on an outraged
Bench) that “shikker” is pure Jewish.
Another good Hebrew word, used chiefly in
the underworld in Australia, but common
enough in my county in England, is “guyver”
or “guiver,” a synonym for soft sawder or
kidstakes. I once used it in conversation
with a Jew, who met it with a glad query
whether I spoke Yiddish. I had evidently
struck a responsive chord.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: Illicit diamond buying has
received a new lease of life in South Africa
as the result of the “State-controlled” allu-
vial fields in Namaqualand. As a matter
of fact, everyone who feels like it has a
share in the control as well as the State, and
the wayfarer can buy diamonds anywhere in
the n.-w. of Cape Colony. A fleet of small
launches is engaged in the forbidden trade
at the mouth of the Orange River. Most of
the farmers within 100 miles are tasting a
prosperity they never knew before, and a
roaring business is done on the actual field
itself under the eye of the Government. The
field is so vast in extent that proper polic-
ing is impossible. The big breakwater at
Cape Town was mostly built by convicts in
the ’seventies and ’eighties under- the old
Kimberley 1.D.8. laws. If these could be
enforced in the present state of affairs
every port in the sub-continent might have
a breakwater.
* * * *
“Stellsby”: The title of Surgeon-General
was not the close preserve of the top-line
Army doctor (B. 3/7/’29). The head of
an R.N. hospital claimed the same distinc-
tion. I know, because I had occasion to
interview two of the breed, and in each
instance it was like seeking an audience of
King George. They were almost unapproach-
able except “by request”; still, when I did
get to them, I found them entirely human.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: Before the British elections
Lord Birkenhead, the sometime Lord Chan-
cellor, who has taken to commerce as more
remunerative than law or politics, gave it as
his opinion that he was about the only
person in the British Empire who would
surrender a £5OOO a year pension of his
own free' will. Still, the principle has been
acted on in Australia, as doubtless else-
where. When Westralia became a self-
governing colony in 1890, all those who had
held office under the Imperial Government
were pensioned off. The one who was to
become the most distinguished was John
Forrest, who, as ex-Surveyor-General, was
awarded £5OO a year. But he declined
to clraw it while he was Premier of the
colony (1890-1900), or during any of the
years when he held office in the Federal
Parliament, though he took it when he was
merely a private member. And John, unlike
Lord Birkenhead, was reckoned rather a
hard man in money matters.
AN EXCEPTIONALLY EARLY SPRING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Spring is here! Now the woolly friskers
With gestures of riotous joy behave;
Earth sprouts a crop of new green whiskers —
Which wily cockies will later shave.
The same old lies we are blithely telling
(A possible cause of extreme regret).
For love has returned to her vacant dwelling,
Which for a season has been “To ..Let.”
In goats and poets is re-born vigor
(There’s a rush of rhyme to the rags that
pay!),
And even the cove with the cynic snigger
Ends his snig. with a cheerful bray.
The pursuit of folly becomes a habit—
A driving force with a hefty shove—
And man, along with the crow and rabbit,
Finds fresh entanglements born of love.
The garden awakes from its sleep to set us
Delving anew for our seasonal jokes;
And we brazenly ask, if the editors lettuce,
Is it really with joy that the artichokes?
Yea, to unearthing of pickled plunder
And salad japes is our genius bowed —
May the Lord forgive me! But can you
wonder
That editors are such a sauerkraud?
In countless ways does the season show its
Determination to make life hum—
And, with rhymes long ready, a thousand
poets
Are keen to assure us that “Spring has
come!”
Full soon will a metrical hurly-burly
Upon the defenceless public burst;
So, forestalling the rush, I am posting
early—
Doubtful yet that I’m really first!
MAORILAND.
C. H. W.


EGYPTIAN POTTER
With his feet the potter of
Cairo works the primitive
mechanism which makes his
throwing-wheel revolve; with,
his hands and a few simple
tools he moulds wet clay into
many shapes on this revolving
wheel. The last process is to
bake this clay in a furnace, and
the finished bowl or jug will
then be sold in one of the
bazaars of Cairo. Orient Line
Royal Mail Steamers call at
Egypt on their voyage home,
and visitors to Cairo will find
that pottery is only one of
several ancient arts still
practised by the inhabitants.
ORIENT LINE
w
JWItT
w
\
ll
'N
N
fjj.
2*
\
>' y
<0
H
I
X.
ss
5^5
m.
&
<7
71
6
■*
&
SA
*r
>*
<£L
s'
m
%
h
A
%
Vi
fc
K
St
I
&x
«
*s
gK
*2
s
X*
'*l
!gg
Cws
!fl


When in Sydney— stay at
*Usherfjf
HOT E L
Sp cC *
at*
Bed
Utast
u r ea
tar^
desire
Centrally located,
Usher’s has estab-
lished a reputa-
tion for the ex-
clusive quality of
its cuisine and the
superior quality of
its service.
Every convenience—honest comfort.
Book your accommodation now.
Inclusive Terms or Special Tariff.
Opp. Theatre Royal, Sydney.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address: “Usherotel, Sydney.”
A Thoroughly Reliable Barometer
for Station or Farm Use
è
BAROMETER.
Dark Oak Frame, with 4in. dial.
A very handsome, plain design.
Price only 35/.
The Barometer is essential equipment for
the progressive man on the land. With
its aid a correct forecast of the weather
conditions is always available. The Baro-
meter illustrated is made in England by
one of the oldest manufacturers of high-
class scientific instruments, and is of
thoroughly reliable quality throughout.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
Scientific Instruments Depts.—lst Floor.
23-25 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
PLAIN FIGURES.
CASH ONLY.
THEBES NO SPORT
v ■■■
LIKE SNOW® SPORT
%
AT
m
CAU.. WRITE .
on WIRE
con tourist m
.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Douglas Grant is one of the returned sol-
diers concerned in the heartless and unneces-
sary dismissals from the Lithgow small-arms
factory. Born in the Lithgow district,
he was adopted and educated by a kindly
white. Alert and intelligent, the young
native became a draughtsman at Mort’s
Lock; he enlisted with the A.I.F. and was
taken prisoner. He surprised his captors
by protesting vehemently that he was a
dinkum Australian when they sought to
draft him amongst the Indians in a prison
camp, and he succeeded in getting placed
amongst his own mob.
, K. Maltby’s election for Barwon
brings the tally of Diggers in Vic. Assem-
tvt T hat .o ™ as be f or e the death of
Ted Morley—l 3; in addition, one (Bailey)
served in the South African war. Maltby
seems a likely sort. H'e is still young, though
not as young as Langslow, who was re-
turned for Castlemaine-Kyneton in February.
A. G. WISE, the next man who has hopes
of launching a new evening paper in
Melbourne.
- Riotous Sydney undergrads, should have
® * e^ow -feeling for Earl Beauchamp, who in
1931 will revisit the State of which he was
Governor 30 years ago. He was one of the
organisers of the great “Blenheim rag” at
Oxford, staged as a protest against the Dean
of Christ Church's refusal to allow members
of the college to attend the Duke of Marl-
borough s coming-of-age ball: Beauchamp’s
share was to cut the rope of the great college
hell. He was sent down, which explains why
this brilliant man has no Oxford degree
Lord Rosebery was another Liberal leader
who left Oxford before getting so much as
U B.A.
Brisbane boasts the youngest major in. the
C.M.F.—Cranston MacEachern, C.O of the
43rd Battery Field Artillery. He‘is only
23. Major MacEachern was a Brisbane
Grammar boy, and is a solicitor.
Gilbert Munro Turnbull, Government
Aieintect of I apua, saw much of the world
before he settled down to that job—if you
can be said to settle down to a job which
takes you wandering over half the island
much of it where wandering has to be done
on foot. Trained as architect and building
surveyor in England, his profession carried
o im ., U.k.A., Canada, Mexico and the
®°uth Seas before he joined the Papuan ser-
vice. Ten years ago he began to discover
that he could write. A few years later The
Bulletin also discovered it; and nobody was
surprised when one of the most highly com-
mended of the entries in the First Novel
Competition was found to carry his name.
Under the title of “Paradise Plumes,” and
illustrated by G. K. Townshend, its first
chapters will be printed in this paper on
July 31.
Philip Snowden, who wants to deprive the
Dominions of preferences, is a cripple, and
it has affected, his outlook. He smashed up
Ins right leg in a cycling accident when
young, and hobbles about with two sticks a
world of suffering in his thin, pale face. He
is self-educated (his father was a Yorkshire
worsted-weaver), and he won a position in
the Civil Service in open competition ; ironic-
ally enough—for he is a temperance enthusi-
ast—the position was in the Excise. Snow-
den is as fanatical as liis leader is stolid.
Empire is anathema to him.
Captain H. F. Coleman left Australia with
the A.l.h. hoping that the war would be
oyer before another Christmas j it has taken
him close on 15 years to get back. After
the Armistice he was allotted to the War
Craves Commission. He took his discharge
a little before Major Phillips, the last A.I.F.
man to serve in France, and now governor
o_ an English gaol; but he was kept in
England to superintend the publication of
a guidebook to the war-graves areas.
It looks as if Kent Hughes will become
a thoin m the side of the McPherson Gov-
ernment now that he has ceased to be its whip.
e value of his job was only
about fi'oO a year, and he was tied up a
good deal. Menzies and Saltau, M.’sL C.
who threw up their position in the Ministry,
have not resigned their executive cowicillor-
ships, which carry free railway passes on
t or life and entitle them to
the Hon. prefix on their visiting cards.
Michael Beechinor, Archdeacon of Devon-
port, the oldest cleric in the Apple Isle, is
dead. He was a Cork man and a nephew
or> Daine ! Mu ?Phy; when the latter,
atter 20 years service in India, was trans-
ferred to Hobart, Michael and another cleri-
cal nephew, .T. F. X. Beechinor, travelled
along also. The three lived long lives; the
Archbishop died at .92 J.F.X. at 89 and
Michael at 91. At the Eucharistic Congress
in Sydney the Archdeacon was the oldest
priest present.
N.S.W. Government school teachers show-
ered presents and good wishes on B. C. H'ark-
ness, Assistant-Director of Education, when
he left for America under engagement to the
Carnegie Corporation. Ilarkness has climbed
the ladder from the status of pupil-teacher,
making m the ascent hosts of friends. After
completing his work for the Carnegie people
he will go on a world tour, but it won’t be
all pleasure—agricultural and pre-vocational
education is to receive special attention.
For the first time for 20 years, Vic.
Assembly has had to appoint an acting
clerk • W. R. Alexander was absent attend-
ing his. brother’s funeral. Alexander has
been clerk since 1924. T. G. Watson was the
clerk in 1909 when a motion for the appoint-
ment of a deputy had to be submitted. The
late H. 11. Newton managed to get through
14 years of service in the Assembly without
a break on sitting days.
George Aiston, the big, hearty advertise-
ment for the climate of Centralia who
brought down the two Arunta tribesmen for
the aboriginal art exhibition in Melbourne,
learnt what suburbia meant when it came
to . finding the material for the mia-mia
which was erected in the exhibition. A jour-
ney along the shores of Port Phillip bay
brought the trio 14 miles to Mordialloc
before they found a patch of ti-tree which
looked as if it had no owner. Aiston’s run,
Kopperamanna, is situated 200 miles east of
Oodnadatta; lie took it over after he had been
17 years in the Centralian poliee. His know-
ledge of the abo. and their regard for him are
so great that the Government made him
honorary protector over an area about as
large as France.. The result is that an
average of 200 live on his bounty all the
year.
Dr. Herbert Marks, dead in Sydney, aged
bb, .was a famous ear, nose and throat
specialist. He was an honorary of Sydney
Prince Alfred and Lewisham hospitals, and
hundreds of ex-Digger s will remember him
with grateful affection for work for which
•he would never take payment. He was a
notable sportsman—a first-class golfer
and one of the best amateur billiard players
in Australia. He was a son of. James
Marks, M.L.C., and he married a daughter of
C. E. Pilcher, K.C.
» £V J J an Stuart > dead in Westralia, was an
A.W.U. shearer in the early ’nineties, and
saw the inside of a Queensland gaol for his
part in the great strike. Going to the other
side of the continent, he narrowly missed
being one of Groperland’s first bunch of
Labor members in 1901; a few years later
he was M.L.A. for Leonora for a term or
two. In between he edited the Westralian
Worker at Kalgoorlie, and edited it well.
He had a happy turn for crisp paragraphs
and verse.
Without arousing any protest, the McPher-
son Ministry (Vic.) has managed to put a
Baker on its commission of inquiry con-
cerning the price of bread. He is H. J.
Baker, who was formerly a senior clerk
in Vic. Treasury and then manager for a
few years of the wheat pool. Judge Wieneke
and L. A. Cleveland are the other members
of the commission, whose report will supply
a few more rockets for a night or two, after
which the flare-up will be forgotten like
the pyrotechnics of previous commissions on
prices.
HAROLL
FISHER.
S.A. Cricket
Association has
again lost its pre-
si den t, Harold
Fisher dying sud-
denly (at G 2), as
did Mostyn Evan.
He was a son of
Joseph Fisher, a
famous Adelaide
citizen of last cen-
tury ; was manag-
ing-director (till
he retired) of Gol-
lin and Co., chairman ot' directors of Rey-
nella vineyards and a prominent Anglican
churchman. He married a daughter of C.
A, Smyth, a former Crown Prosecutor in
Victoria.
Rt. Rev. William Walmsley Sedgwick, who
recently resigned from the bishopric of
Waipu (M.L.), was the mildest-mannered
man that ever sported gaiters, but he had
his share of excitement when young. Forty-
five years ago he forsook a Kentish curacy
to join the Royal Navy as chaplain, and saw
service against Arabi Pasha and the Mahdi,
earning the Khedive’s Star. Transvaal,
Bechuanaland, Cape Colony and Maoriland
parishioners were kept in the straight and
narrow path by Sedgwick before he became
a bisli. in 1914.
There is something in the Westralian air
that keeps public men young; certainly the
most youthful veterans of affairs who visit
Ihe Bulletin office come from the Swan
valley. Ex-Premier Morgans astonished the
youngsters of the establishment by racing
up three flights of stairs; he was quite 73
at the time. . Ex-Premier “Nutty” James
still looks as if he could play a good game
of football; yet Fred Johns’s Who’s Who
says lie is 68. Senator Colebatch and J. D.
Connolly, whom Colebatch succeeded as
Agent-General, are also noticeably well pre-
served, and though William Watson’s beard
whitened long ago, he is still fresh-eom-
plexioned, active and enthusiastic. Watson
was M.H.R. for Fremantle in two Parlia-
ments, and Labor was immensely relieved
when he stood down; but he will probably
come again. He has no love for party, but
likes the Parliamentary life.
Monsignor Shanahan, of Hamilton (Vic),
recently celebrated his 93rd birthday and the
both anniversary of his entry into the priest-
hood, h or 43 years he has labored in the Wes-
tern District with “malice toward none and
charity for all.” Sport has been one of his
interests, and the old man finds it hard to
accommodate himself to modern transport;
he loves horses.
0n A.r of • l i he most venerable institutions of
the Maoriland Parliament, yielding prece-
dence only to Bellamy’s and Hansard, is
Black Rod Bothamley, a dignified and lov-
able old gentleman who has had charge of
the ebony wand for 56 years. He has
passed his Bord milestone, but is still able
to summon the Reps, to “another place”
ivhen the G.-G. has a Speech from the
Iliione to deliver. For over half a century
Bothamley was Clerk-Assistant of the
Uppah Chambah, but he retired from that
job a few years ago, and Parliament now
knows him, in an official canacity, only at
session openings. His hobbies are photo-
graphy and science—he’s the author of a
number of scientific brochures issued by
the Government Printer— and in his younger
days he won many a pot as an oarsman. He
was born in Surrey, but migrated to M.L. at
the age of 22.
Although he got a large share of the
honors and emoluments of Vic and Com-
monwealth politics, Willie Watt, who has
just resigned from the Reps., had setbacks
as well. When he had been only two years
in Vic. Assembly he wa s named Postmaster-
General by McLean in 1899. After 11
months of office he lost his Parliamentary
seat. YV hue out of State politics for two years
he tried unsuccessfully for the Senate and
for an Assembly vacancy in East Melbourne
lhen he returned to the Assembly in 190‘>
and remained till 1914, becoming Premier
twice; on one occasion Murray stood down
to let hini have a turn. In Federal politics
he found Hughes harder to get on with than
Murray had been, and the inevitable breach
came in 1920. Watt’s Privy Councillorship
and the Reps. Speakership were just flowers
by the political wayside. Of all his fine
speeches perhaps the finest was his panegyric
on just-dead Deakin in the Queen’s Hall,
Parliament House, Melbourne, nearly a
decade ago.
John Sibbald, one of the most remarkable
of the men who went with Lane to Paraguay,
died in ap Adelaide hospital the other day on
his 79th birthday. An accountant by profes-
’ u le iac * 9 ua^ifie( J as an analytical chemist
and became a skilled cabinet-maker by way
of recreation. Though without collegiate
schoo ing, he could quote Homer and Horace
by the yard, was a first-rate platform
speaker, a writer above the average and a
gifted musician. After three years in Para-
guay and two in Liverpool, Sibbald returned
to Australia, settling in the Western State.
He knew nothing of flour-milling, but the
late Henry Thomas, who knew' his native
capacity, put him in charge of one of his
mills, and in a little while he was president
of the W.A. Master Millers’ Association.
I he value of his services to the W. A. Wheat
Pool Board during the war led to his
appointment as. superintendent of the
scheme in Victoria. His latter years were
spent again in Westralia, where for a time
he owned an apple orchard near Albany.
Death has taken toll of six members of
the Vic. law factory since the 29th Parlia-
ment came into being on April 9, 1927. The
Assembly has lost Bodman, Snowball
(Speaker) and Morley; the Plush House,
Sternberg, Swinburne and Falkiner. In
addition Lawson resigned from the Assembly
to become a Senator, and Merritt, Payne,
Beggs and Crockett retired voluntarily from
the House of Landlords. B. 11. S. Abbott
failed to recapture hi s Council seat in June,
1928, but he was a Senator for six months
of 1929.
A fund has been opened in London for
the subject of a recent Bulletin cartoon,
Sir Ronald Ross, the man who discovered
that malaria was caused, not by the Evil
Eye, but by the anopheles mosquito, and it
is also being taken up in other parts of the
Empire. Singapore subscriptions run into
five figures of dollars. At first contribu-
tions by rubber companies were conspicuous
by their absence, but a lot of money is now
coming in from this source. If it had not
been for Ross’s discovery there would have
been less rubber in Malaya, but a good many
more graves.
HARRY LAUDER drops in at Melbourne
Royal for one of his farewells.
From Harold Cohen, new Vic. M.L.C.: —
Information as to my war service (B. 3/7/’29) is
not of very grave moment 15 years after. But the
facts are that I started in 1914 as A.P.M. at Broad-
meadows and subsequently was Chief Instructor Artil-
lery there, then was A.A.G. 3rd District, and
went overseas in 1915 in command of the 6th
Artillery Brigade. I was O.C. troops on the Persic,
in which Lieut.-Col. Warren also sailed in command
of the sth Artillery Brigade—he was second in com-
mand of the ship. This is of no importance to-day
except that I am wearing the 1914 ribbon for over-
seas service.
MAN’S LIMITS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He broke the beasts of burden to his will;
n ,°y cles a Sone they bent them to his loads,
The shaggy ponies crossing steppe and hill,
The straining caravans along the roads
That bridge the desert’s face.
From dawn of Time the race
Waged endless war with Space.
Rivers and tides and oceans vast he dared,
The winds of Heaven his auxiliaries,
And ever faster, ever farther fared
When stertm was harnessed on the tossing
seas,
And lines of iron ran
Within a lifetime’s span
Lands’ end to end for Man.
rea ' ms a * r w ere his to vanquish last;
-Lhe great seas’ deepest depths his coming
wait.
What will lie next, with distance overcast
TtrA, 1101 , Space itself well-nigh annihilate?
Withal, though Man may climb
O’er Space to tower sublime,
He may not conquer Time.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


Here you meet Dan “Demosthenes” O’Connor, butcher, alderman, M.P and Postmaster-General
As an aldermanic M.P. he resented the defeat of a City Corporation Bill, and attacked the other
orator, Dailey, for being the cause of it.
Over the title “The Dining-out Administration” you here have fine portraits of Alexander Stuart
(. Premier), Dibbs, George Reid (one of the first of them in THE BULLETIN) and Dailey.
This is reproduced chiefly for its portrait of Wm.
Curnow, so long the great Editor of the S. M. HERALD.
The sinner in the confessional is Tommy Garrett, the
brilliant but erratic Lands Minister of the day.
George Dibbs is here shown peddling railways and other
public works in return for votes.
WILLIAM MACLEOD CARTOONS OF THE EARLY 'EIGHTIES.
Poverty
Point
“ Caesar’s Ghost”: The argumentative chap
had declared that many things inan possesses
are superfluities. “Every one of you knows
of something that he could well dispense
with,” he declared. “That’s so,” said the
dark, lank-cheeked man heavily. “I am an
actor—l could easily do without my appe-
tite.”
“D.A.”: Current S. M. Herald contro-
versy over the pronunciation of “Giannini
savors a good deal of a type of publicity
stunt that was formerly imposed upon Lon*
don newspapers until the editors took a
tumble, and usually it resolved into a general
discussion on the King’s English, as this one
has done. After all, the art of Paderewski
and Chaliapin was none the less appreciated
in Sydney for the habitual mispronunciation
of their names as Padarooski and Charlie
Appin. These hairsplitting controversies
always recall the exotic lady who bounced
into the shop and d'emanded some cawds.
“Blind cawds or box cawds, madam,” queried
the assistant. “Visiting cawds,” returned the
lady.
“Cine Ma”: The following is from the
Los Angeles Evening Herald :
Sid Grauman started a rather, cumbersome fad
with his footprints of famous people in the forecourt
of his Chinese theatre in Hollywood. So distant a
city as Melbourne, Australia, has taken up the fad,
with the result that Paramount has just shipped
four cubes of cement, weighing 450 pounds each and
bearing the handprints, footprints and signatures of
Clara Bow, Buddy Rogers, Adolphe Menjou and
Esther Ralston. These perpetual reminders of our
Hollywood favorites will be installed in the entrance
court of a Melbourne theatre.
I understand that the Regent is the theatre
in question, and that these priceless trea-
sures have been on hand for quite a while.
As a constant picturegoer, I should like to
know why the management withholds them
from view, especially as a rival theatre has
had on exhibition a pair of underpants or
some such garment once worn by Rndolph
Valentino.
“M.G.S.”: The announcement that a
trained nurse will be in attendance at
"Dracula” in Melbourne to succor hysteri-
cal members of the audience is nothing.
When I resided in the Malay kingdom of
Bilge, ruled over by the beneficent Rajah
Bunkum, Messrs. Biliousson, the great
theatrical producers, put on the famous Per-
sian mystery play called (here I beg to be
allowed to leave the title in the original
Malay) “Perut dan D(irah.” A revengeful
spirit had the capacity of converting herself
into the semblance of a beautiful woman
and luring young husbands away from their
lawful mates. No sooner had one clasped
her fair body in his arms, however, than
the head flew off and, trailing the entrails
behind it, disappeared in the wings, leaving
the maddened lover embracing an empty
shell. During the performance hospital
orderlies went round the audience taking
blood pressures and temperatures, examin-
ing eyeballs and hearts. It is time the Firm
thought of something new.
“Craiser”: Some years ago Nancy Weir,
the child pianist who played a Beethoven
concerto remarkably well at Melbourne Town
Hall recently, was staying with an uncle
in a Vic. country town, when a travelling
salesman called, peddling music scores. “But
what good would they be to us?” remarked
Nancy’s uncle. “There’s nobody in the house
can read them.” The bagman smiled in-
credulously, and pointed to a window from
which the strains of a difficult waltz were
floating into the sunny air. Nancy’s relative
grinned. “Come inside and look for your-
self,” he invited. Seated on a stool, rein-
forced with volumes from the family library,
sat an infant of 4$ years playing by ear.
It is only three years since the youngster
began her studies seriously.
“H.H.”: “Gad” (8.5/6/’29) is incorrect in
giving 1920 as the year of Anton Lang’s last
appearance in the Oberammergau Passion
Play. The performances began on May 14,
1922, and ended in September. They were
given twice a week beginning at 8 a.m. and,
with one interval for lunch, lasting till 6 p.m.
Ten of the Lang family had leading parts;
but the finest acting, I thought, was that of
Guido Mayr in the r6le of Judas. The vil-
lage has about 2000 people; there are cruci-
fixes in the private gardens, church bells ring
at all hours, and all the houses have the
outside walls decorated with frescoes of reli-
gious subjects. The play itself had an extra-
ordinary dramatic effect on many of the
audience, but the hardness of the seats
brought my own thoughts back to earth.
“A. Major”: “Cine Ma” (B. 10/7/’29)
doesn’t make an impeccable choice in his
selection of examples of aphrodisiac music
to illustrate his condemnation of lascivious
talkies. The Appassionato Sonata was not
named by the composer, and when I studied
the piano, under a German master, an erst-
while pupil of Kalkbrenner, I was told that
it was a sea saga. Certainly the opening
movement can be made to represent very
faithfully the surging of billows on a rocky
shore. Much more erotic is the Kreutzer
(violin) Sonata, round which Tolstoy wrote
a novel. And the “Tannhauser” overture’s
Venusberg passages have, under-running
them, the solemn chant of the pilgrims.
Liszt’s most popular “Liebestraum” is usu-
ally accepted as the most daring example
of amorous music-writing; but music, like
life, gives one no more than one can put
into it. I have heard the “Liebestraum”
played note-perfect by a boy of seven, and it
sounded more hymnal than pagan.
“M.G.S.”: “Stellsby” (B. 3/7/’29) comes
to the astonishing conclusion that concert-
goers are a dwindling race because music
(in the sense of learning to play a fiddle or
a piano indifferently well) is no longer part
of the education of youth. Perhaps, then,
the people who flocked to a recent art show
in Melbourne and bought £l5OO worth of the
paintings exhibited only did so because they
were taught in their childhood days to make
bad drawings.
“Cauboy”: Pleas for the more reverential
treatment of the National Anthem at places
of amusement all fall on the stony ground
of the fact that the average Britisher,
having arrived at Empire, takes his loyalty
for granted and sees no reason for continu-
ing to make a song about it. If “Colanne”
(B. 3/7/’29) had been at the performance
of the Hebrew opera “Bar-Kochba,” a piece
of pure nationalistic propaganda, at the
Playhouse, Melbourne, recently, he would
have seen what I mean. When the orchestra-
struck up the new Zionist National Anthem,
composed shortly after the Balfour Declara-
tion restored the Holy Land to the Jews,
the Hebrew audience stood up with us much
solemnity as if it were in the synagogue.
“Cine Ma”: “Stellsby” (B. 3/7/’29)
seems to credit me with the opinion that
the failure of sundry virtuosi who have
visited this country indicates that concert-
goers are a dwindling race. Nothing could
be further from the truth. Possibly “Stells-
by” has not attended the concerts of the
two flourishing symphony orchestras in Mel-
bourne or the Philharmonic shows. If he
did, he would find that, on Saturday nights,
with all the talkie theatres going at full
blast, the concerts command audiences of
from 2000 to 3500 a night. I believe that the
gramophone, the pianola and the radio, far
from destroying the interest in music, are
raising an inordinate thirst for the real
thing; whereas learning to strum a few
notes on a piano does not create a desire
to hear a Beethoven quartet any more than
learning Latin irregular verbs creates a
longing to read Ovid in the original. Why
the virtuosi were a financial failure is easily
explained. There were too many of them,
thev all played the same things and the
Taits and the Carrolls paid them more than
they were worth.
“Csesar’s Ghost”: Just dead Jean Gerardy
was a spiritual-faced young man of 24 when
he came to Australia first in 1901. Even
then he had ranked for years as one of
the greatest ’cellists the world had known.
For the war he enlisted as a private in the
Belgian army, bqt was soon passed out to
work on army concert parties. Subse-
quently he raised big sums in England and
America for war work. He visited Aus-
tralia three times, and married a Sydney
girl, Amelia McQuade.
“Luiz”: Dion Boucicault made his last
professional appearance in Christchurch
(M.L.) when he closed his Dominion tour
with “Mr. Pim Passes By.” He suffered a
great deal-to complete his season. Doctored
and nursed during the day, he was merely
patched up to do his show at night, though
few who attended his performances realised
the physical strain that he was enduring.
J. Beresford Fowler: Will “L. de R.”
come from behind his anonymity and explain
away the wonderful notices my acting has
had from such critics, among a host of others,
as G. C. Dixon, now literary editor of the
London Daily Mail; Louis Esson, C. R.
Bradish, Gladys Hain and the leading dra-
matic critics of the Argus, the Age and the
Herald, as well as from former critics on
The Bulletin?
“Hamfat” ; “Sweeney Todd,” produced at
Sydney Savoy, has had previous presenta-
tions in Australia. It was a popular melo-
farce bill for a last night with quite a num-
ber of touring companies in the melodramatic
days; Grattan Riggs was one of those who
used it.


é


E 3
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directort: Mm* EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chatman), Senator 0. D. MILLEN (Depot, Chatman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THE LANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD.
Total Assets exceed • £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
<1)
(2)
( 3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
Because of Annual Bonuses to L olicy-noiaers. nrivate hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by deduction made from policy or bonuses.
the " o°f loss^f °eye” l or^mbrthrou^i°accioein, S a quarter of the sum assured will be naid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for al “«t wpiy DE R TIFF POI ICIFS
1 ' NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFirS UNDER LII E l OLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications tor Agencies invited irom men integrity. n „ nrl , n orißra i Mana o-«r
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Desert Song
Criterion “The Perfect Alibi
Royal “The Flying Squad
T,voU Vaudeville
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “A Night Out
Palace “The Zeppelin Terror
Royal (com. Saturday) Draeula^
King’s (com. Saturday) . . “The Squatter s Daughter
Tjvoi.i Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
Though the Maori race has developed
musical art for centuries and cherishes a
repertoire of sagas and dances probably un-
rivalled by any other colored nation, and
most Maoriland musicians are familiar with
the native rhythms, it has been left to. an
Australian, Alfred Hill, who lived only a
few years in Fernland, to exploit the rich
field. He hasn’t found it very profitable.
Some of his songs, such as “Wiata Poi and
“Maori Home,” are good sellers, and de-
servedly so, but his most ambitious work, an
operetta which, had it been written by a
Viennese or an inhabitant of < Leipzig,
couldn’t have escaped fame —there’s a war-
song in it that Verdi, Wagner and even poor
disgruntled Bizet would have _ lustily
applauded—had to wait 20 years in MS.
before anybody heard it. It was performed a
few weeks ago, for the first time, in the
North Sydney Turret Theatre, and Hill was
positively apologetic when a small but well-
qualified audience of musicians and critics
insisted that he should stand up and acknow-
ledge its plaudits. The ice having been thus
broken, Hill dived into his portfolio of un-
published compositions based on Maori
themes and unearthed some string quartettes,
which were presented by the Lindfield (Syd-
ney) Musical Club one night last week. Mr.
Hill played the viola, Gladstone Bell the
’cello and Cyril Monk and Dorothy Buchanan
violins. Maori music mirrors the stern but
beautiful land in which it was evolved, and
the composer in these pieces has captured the
atmosphere with rare fidelity. There’s a
foundation for a genuine school of Austra-
lasian music in Hill’s work —the Australian
abos. have invented intriguing melodic
themes and strange rhythms, too, by the way
—and it’s about time Australian composers
MOLLY RAYNOR , who plays Ann in “Outward Bound” at the
Savoy, Sydney.
paid some attention to the wealth of raw
material they can draw upon.
V
“Madre Pietosa” in Giannini’s rich and
poignant tones set even the toes of Satur-
day night’s audience tingling at Sydney Town
Hall. The Verdi aria expresses the very soul
of prayerful emotion, and in both voice and
bearing the singer emphasised the mental
anguish of the composer’s heroine. Then, too,
the background of the “Venite Adoremus,
against which Leonora’s final notes are
etched was furnished in the best religious
manner by a choir of 20 under the direction
of Roland Foster. Butterfly’s “Un Bel Di”
was the second operatic number on the pro-
gramme, and the cherry-blossom girl s love
exultation was sung bettertthan Sydneyn n Sydney li<
ever heard it, except by Amy Castles That
memory still stands supreme. Then, too, the
fine, smooth style of Lully’s “Bois Epais and
the sparkle of Sibella s Girometta
outstanding features in a notable concu .
Accompanist Molly Bernstein, of the mar-
vellous memory, and Sol Oeutscb.with
delicate enhancements on the violin, added
to the charm of the night.
* * *
Easily the most successful theatrical
offering of the moment in Sydney w jhe
Desert Song” at Her Majesty’s. Tte color-
ful and musical show has its 129th pel
formance to-night, which seems a fair enough
argument that the talkies are not * _ S
things all their own way. The talkies, ho
ever, respond pretty heartily by porting to
their victory in the Fuller camp. It is on y
a week or two since a Fuller relieved him
self of the opinion that it was absurd to
think that the talkies threatened the legit,
with extinction. On the contrary, he said in
effect, the noisy films would help the flesh
and blood stage by making movie Patron
desire to see the real thing. Aow Sydney
St James, the identical theatre about which
those opinions were spilt, has been leased
to Union Theatres, which also secuies
Melbourne Princess. Both houses arc to be
equipped with talkie apparatus; and, though
Ben Fuller says, “We. have . naturally
stipulated that only the biggest pictureand
theatrical attractions are to go into these
two theatres,” St. James begins its talk l ®
career with A 1 Jolson in “The Singing *oo ,
the sloppiest thing this Showman has ever
seen on the films, a picture composed of false
sentiment and- crude syncopated songs.
* * *
Next Wednesday night an old firm opens
up on a new stand in Sydney; _Duncan
Macdougall’s Playboxers, having despaned
of inducing the police to grant a license for
their attic in Rowe-street, will present Her
man Ileijermans’s “The Good Hope u ‘
basement near the corner of Oxford and
Crown streets. The new house will hold an
audience of about 200, . and will include a
buffet and lounge and vividly-hued seats.
* * *
Sydney Savoy’s presentation of “Sweeney
Todd” went clbse to establishing a record
short run. It lasted a week, and was. gently
removed after Friday nights showing to
permit a Saturday-
afternoon revival
of “Outward
Bound.” As tin;
gliosty play had
also just been
guilty of a short
life and a grey one,
the situation in
Bligh-street did not
look so cheerful as
it might have done.
* *
The exhibition of
Aboriginal Art at
the Melbourne
National Gallery
attracted large
crowds last week,
but it was the abo.,
not his art, which
drew most of the
attention. The two
members of the
Arunta tribe who
had been brought
down from 200
miles east o f
Oodnadatta by
George Aiston
squatted in the lee
of an electric radi-
ator, fashioning
boomerangs and
remaining magnifi-
cently indifferent to
the fact that they
were anachronisms
anvthing up to
20,000 years out of
time.
The art displayed
was something of a
d i s a p p ointment,
largely beca u s e
some well-meaning
but incautious local
scribes had led the
public to believe
that recent dis-
coveries showed that Binghi was equal as
an artist to the Cro-Magnon geniuses who
decorated the caves of Altamira. On the
evidence of this show he was not- He was
perfectly infantile, whereas the Cro-Magnon
man was more modern than Hans Heysen.
Similar works to Binghi’s are being produced
in a thousand Australian homes to-day where
there are children under four. The eye oi
the modern child will develop if he gets into
the right educative hands. But Binghi s
style never varied. He made ono tremendous
effort —and the man who made it may have
been relatively as great as Titian—and then
for a period of 5000 to 20,000 years his
viewpoint remained static.
How much did Binghi, R.A., know visu-
ally about the world around him? A glance
at .this exhibition, which comprises examples
of his work ranging from the rock shelter
galleries at Mootwingee (N.S.W.) to Mel-
ville Island, gives the answer—practically
nothing.- This seems surprising considering
that he could probably see twice as far and
four times as keenly as George Lambert, and
spent his whole life, not mere week-ends,
amongst the objects he depicted. Also, his
very life depended on his ability to spot a
rock kangaroo before it spotted him, whereas
Mr. Lambert orders
liis meat from the
butcher. Yet Mr.
Lambert, if he
cares to, can draw
a speaking likeness
of a bullock, where-
as Binghi’s kanga-
roos are the feeblest
travesties of the
actual animal.
The fact is that
Binghi viewed the
world not artisti-
cally but epigastri-
cally. An emu was
a meal, not a sub-
ject for a picture.
When Binghi drew
a bird he put the
insides in because,
g a s t r onomically
speaking, they
were as important
as the exterior. It
took untold ages
before the public
began to feed its
Lamberts so well
that they could
study a plate of
fish with complete
detachment. Even
yet many of them
can’t do it.
tf. *
“T h e Zeppelin
Terror” (Melbourne
Palace)' opens on
board the Barba-
rossa, and the scene
is said to be an
exact replica of the
innards of the Graf
Zeppelin, the Ger-
man sausage which
crossed the Atlan-
tic. Prof. Keene
(R. Purdie) is
one of the passengers, and lie has a
secret formula for leprosy gas which he
proposes to use to make war so terrible that
no country would dare to embark on one.
The value of his notion is indicated by the
fact that representatives of all the nations
are after the prescription so that their gov-
ernments can add it to their offensive arma-
ments. Roaming amongst the network of
the airship is William Greene, who has been
infected with the disease by one of the scien-
tists in order to deiiionstrate the euic&cy or
the recipe. Naturally Mr. Greene is peeved,
and shows his irritation by endeavoring to
infect his fellow-passengers. (The Bulle-
tin’s medical adviser says that leprosy isnt
certainly contagious, but no matter.) This
complicates matters for the patriots who are
questing for the formula, and in the course
of the subsequent misunderstandings almost
everybody gets shot, stabbed or pushed, over-
board except the ship’s cat which remains in
hiding. What with trying to secure the
recipe for the Fatherland and locate the
leper, Charles Road-Night, as the comman-
der of the dirigible, has a . busy time and
neglects the navigation. Finally the leper
fires a shot into one of the gasbags, and the
Zeppelin crashes to destruction with its
human complement shrieking like all the fac-
tory whistles in Collingwood. However, it
floats long enough for a few more throats
to be cut and for a steamer to rescue the
hero (Harry Moreni), the heroine (Yvonne
Banvard) and the comic reliefs (Hector St.
Clair and Violet Elliott).
If the people who are giving Melbourne this
boon expected Saturday’s audience to show
its appreciation by getting hysterical they
were disappointed. The alleged presence on
an airship in mid-ocean of a madman suffering
from leprosy and determined to communicate
it to others isn’t necessarily any more terri-
fying than the knowdedge that one out of
every 833 people in Norway had the com-
plaint in 1875. Stage-horror doesn’t auto-
matically beget audience-horror. It takes
characterisation to do that, and in charac-
terisation “The Zeppelin Terror’’ is lament-
ably lacking. The spectacle of. Vera Spaull
in a foolish part behaving like Sarah Bern-
hardt in a great one was approximately as
convincing as the spectacle of Mr. Boolswmol
prophesying the downfall of civilisation if he
is not returned at the next election. There
are other ways in which the production could
be improved. People pop in and out of
doors far too frequently, and the last act
needs more light thrown on it. Theatre-
goers who pay good money to see throats cut
are entitled to see them cut in reasonable
comfort, without having to strain their eye-
sight Nevertheless the settings are excel-
lent and the Zepp.’s final plunge is the best
example of stage mechanics seen in Mel-
bourne for a long time.
* * *
If Melbourne hasn’t a permanent orches-
tra it at least appears to have a permanent
Brailowsky and a permanent packed house
to listen to him. The popular Russian again
appeared at the Town Hall on Saturday
night in conjunction with the University
Symphony Orchestra, when the Chopin Con-
CHI KIT A, on& of the Mexican trio on the Tivoli circuit.
certo in E minor and the Liszt Concerto in E
flat were faithfully delivered. The Bulletin
has never heard heartier applause than trod
on the departing heels of the pianist after
the last-named item. The orchestra’s chief
contribution was the Meistersinger overture,
and Bernard Heinze deserves praise for an
excellent presentment of the cap-and-belled
Wagner.
* * *
Next Saturday Melbourne will burst out
in a recrudescence of flesh-and-blood enter-
tainment. Blanderson will commence a sea-
son of Australian plays at the King’s with
“The Squatter’s Daughter,” and “Dracula
will begin shrieking for blood and £ s. d.
at the Royal. At the Auditorium William
Murdoch will appear again, and with him
Efrem Kurtz, Pavlova’s conductor, who will
wave the baton over the Melb. Symphony
Orchestra.
# * #
“A Night Out,” revived for the fourth or
fifth time in Melbourne at His Majesty’s on
Saturday night, is a man-made evening s
entertainment. Alfred Erith, Gus Bluett,
Cecil ivelleway and Leo Franklyn keep the
pot of amusement boiling, and of these Gus
Bluett brings the most authentic fuel ot
comedy to the business. Patricia and Terry
Kendall contribute a pierret item which is
charming, but Patricia should confine her-
self to the language of the leg. When she
abandons dumb show she is as lamentable as
Pavlova might be if she attempted to sing
“Don Quixote.” Madge Aubrey is the only
girl worthy of mention. She treats vamping
as a gentle art, and wins the audience as
well as Gus Bluett. “A Night Out” should
see a week or two out for its producers.
* ¥ *
No change is portended in the programme
at Melb. Tiv. until the 27th. Until then
David Greene will continue to ventriloquise,
and there are 11 other acts of assorted vaude-
ville, none of them so bad as to merit the
material brick and none so good as to be
considered worthy of mention in the mana-
gerial announcements.
* V- V-
Adelaide Royal has Clayton Greene and
Josephine Wilson just coming in with Jhe
Wrecker” of railways. The only other dra-
matic news is that, after experiments by
Regent and Wondergraph, all the cinemas
are turning to talkies —which the present
critic loathes, but the public seems converted
to—and that West’s, originally a panorama
and then a skating-rink, is to be rebuilt
from the old big-barn form to an up-to-date
house of entertainment.


iiimmii
Why the Alexander Hamilton Institute
is different—
OU can dip into it at any point and find immediately
a practical method, plan or idea, worked out and proved,
which you can put to work at once.
Altogether there are 5271 practical business ideas. "Forging
Ahead in Business,” which contains full information about
the Course and Service, is yours for the asking.
Send for it
Alexander Hamilton Institute
11 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY, n.s.w.
“Pioneer” Means Dependable Power Transmission.
d
$
<2
\\ liar are your most difficult belting problems? Are
they heavy, gruelling main drives where the belt must
withstand the constant strain of transmitting hundreds
of horse-power day in and day out, or light, high-
speed drives where extreme accuracy is essential to
minimise vibration and slippage?
Whatever your problems may be you will find
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
absolutely dependable under all conditions of service. Our 70 years of belting
experience are at your disposal in helping to solve your particular problems.
W e know working conditions.
J. C. LUDOWICI SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Tanners and Leather Helling !/amifacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20 26 Queen's
Bridge Street, Aid bourne.
QUEENSLAND; Hoey try, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AI STIIA 1.l A : John McKell & Sons,
Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street. Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & Upton,
Auckland.
Patterson ■& Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Allen Taylor and Co., Ltd. (Sydney).
To Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 22,614 13 p.c. = 19,500 3114 37,916
1920.. 17,812 10 „ „ 15,000 2812 40,728
1921.. 17,622 10 „ 15,000 2622 43,350
} 922. . 17,708 10 „ „ 15,000 2708 46.058
1923. . 17,018 10 „ „ 15,000 2018 48,076
1924. . 16,100 10 „ „ 15,000 1106 49,182
1925.. 13,142 10 ~ „ 15,000 47,324
1926.. 13,655 9 „., 13,500 155 47,479
1927.. 7,553 4 „ „ 6,000 1553 49,032
1928.. 1,843 Nil 1843 50,875
1929.. 3,145 Nil 3145 54,020
For 20 years after the public became inter-
ested in this N. S. Wales timber co. it was
a steady 10 per-center. But the last half-
dozen years have been full of sorrow in the
industry, and conditions have changed com-
pletely. Still, during the 12 months to May
33 the ugly drift in this co.’s profits was
apparently arrested, although the show-
ing was still a very poor one. The slight
improvement was all due to the first six
months’ operations; during the second half
the timber-workers’ strike aggravated the
general depression, and turnover fell away.
Also bush-fires and floods damaged the co.’s
locomotive, tramway and bridges at Port
Stephens, _ though the loss was partly cov-
ered by insurance. After wiping out the
balance of the loss, whatever it amounted to,
and setting aside something unspecified for
depreciation, the board called £3145 of last
year’s earnings net profit; but, until trading
conditions become more settled, it is not
prepared to consider a dividend.
This final profit figure amounted to only
2.1 p.c. on paid capital compared with 1.2,
5, 9.1, 8.7 and 10.7 back to 1924. More-
over, trading results have been even poorer
than the figures suggest; the co. has £43,000
invested outside the business, largely in
public securities and on fixed deposit. If
looks, therefore, as though ordinary trading
brought in very little profit last year, and
probably showed a loss the previous year.
lor the five years to the close of ‘ last
accounts average net earnings were 5.2 p.c.
on capital as against 11.4 p.c. in the pre-
ceding quinquennium; and over the same
periods shareholders have averaged 4.6 p.c.
and 10 p.c. respectively.
Yet, compared with others in the trade,
that is only a mildly-unfavorable experience.
The heavy importing of softwoods has not hit
Allen Taylors as hard as it has some, and
thus far no drastic cut has had to be made
m the book value of the assets, which sug-
gests that depreciation was not neglected
m the good days; hence the visible
savings have remained undisturbed. But
what the investor needs to keep in mind is
that the real worth of the assets is what
they can earn. The co.’s connection with
shipping on the N. S. Wales coast, its con-
centration upon big timbers and successful
organisation helped it to win steady returns
until four years ago, and, when conditions
in the industry become more normal, some
of these factors should help again. But the
future is full of uncertainty; the extent to
which steel has displaced wood in building
construction and the use of cement for floor-
ing and bridge work have narrowed the co.’s
held, and seem likely to go on doing so.
And overhead has not become any lighter
either. Altogether, there is not much that
is encouraging in the outlook.
Still, the management does not despair.
Bast year it bought the British Australian
Co. s sawmills at Port Macquarie. These are
reported well established and backed by good
hardwood forest areas. No hint ha s been
given as to what the capital outlay amounted
W Heie is as much as balance-sheet figures
tell:—
1924. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital.. £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £l5O 000
Liabilities .. 93,532 69,461 72,745 74 202
Country mills, ’
etc. .. 67,378 65,652 67,113 67,607
City, wharves,
freeholds,
mills, plant
, T etc ; •• 17,107 16,200 14,097 14,094
Vessels . . 18,560 15,735 22,065 20,065
Book debts, etc. 55,611 38,989 58,939 66,680
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 54,124 55,370 53,269 54,697
Stocks .. 87,435 80,994 58,137 65,140
During the year only £494 was added to the
book value of country mills, etc., Avhich is
one of the danger spots amongst the assets.
All mills are claimed to be in good order
and adequately insured.
The co. is well equipped to take advantage
of any improvement in trading conditions.
Including stocks (up £70031, the more or
less liquid surplus was £5655 stronger than
at the previous balance, and only £1384 less
than at the close of accounts in 1924.
The market, uncex*tain of the future, pays
only 10s. for the pound shares as against
11s. a year ago, notwithstanding the co.’s
slightly-improved position. On book values
the net tangible backing amounts to 275. 2d.,
of which 13s. Bd. is in surplus liquids and
semi-liquids; 95., country mills; 2s. 7d.,
vessels; Is. lid., mostly metropolitan free-
. hold.
Automobile Fire and General.
Bonus. Dividends v
to Profs. Nominal
Sur- Policy- 8 To Re- Re-
Aprjl, plus, holders, p.c. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
1923.. £997 —£2o') £797 £4OO
1924.. 3,556 200 8 p.c. = £432 2,924 3,324
1925.. 6,905 £1250 200 8 „ „ 586 4,869 8 193
1926.. 14.791 3000 200 8 „ „ 964 10,627 18,820
Premiums on new shares, £694 .. 19,514
1927.. 17.461 4500 200 8 p.c. = 1136 11,625 31,139
Premiums on new shares, £330 .. 31.469
1928.. 8,827 4011 200 8 p.c. = 1268 3,348 34,817
Premiums on new shares, £1135 .. 35,952
10 p.c.
1929.. 11.011 3196 250 10 p.c. =2042 6,523 41,475
It used to be the Automobile Insurance Co. of
Australia, Ltd., which was forme d seven years
ago, under the wing of the Royal Auto. Club
of Vic., to give its members a more com-
prehensive policy for less than had to be
P id elsewhere. Some of the club members
put up the original £4870 of capital. Behind
this was the idea that as the business gath-
ered strength the club itself would benefit in
much the same way as the Vic. Chamber of
Manufacturers has by its insurance venture;
so an investment subsidiary wag formed by
the club to buy the co.’s shares under cer-
tain conditions.
With a clean start and a ready L made con-
nection, the business developed very quickly;
gross premiums shot up from £7329 in the
first year to £162,360 for the 12 months
to April 30, 1928, when £34.817 of nominal
reserves—they included £20.542 specially set
aside against unexpired risks —had accumu-
lated after paying a regular all-round 8 p.c.
div. for five years. The volume of business
written was assisted by the extension of
benefits to outside risks. On the other hand,
in Sept., 1927, the R.A.C.V., which con-
sidered that its revenue should receive
greater benefits from the co., transferred its
official blessing to Lloyds on the basis of an
individual commission to members, plus an
overriding commission to the club. Following
this the co. welded “Fire and General” into
its title, the board having decid d to accept
all classes of risks. Also the agreement with
the club's investment co. was cancelled at
a cost of £SOO. This completed the sever-
ance of the co. from the R.A.C.V., the
business being thus put on an ordinarv trad-
ing basis. It is intended to presently g've
the scrip a free market by listing on ’Change.
The altered conditions were reflect'd in
the 1928 accounts by a drop of £19,317 in
net. premium income. Rut although some
business which one would expect to have
been gathered cheaply was diverted from the
co., the management succeeded in cutting
costs, almost in halves: their ratio to net
premium income dropped in that year from
46.2 p.c. to. 25.2 p.c. But the loss rate
(65.1 p.c.) in the same period was nearly
30 p.c. heavier, the underwriting profit
(£6145) slipped £9307.
Here is a comparison of underwriting per-
formances since 1925:
Net Pre- Loss Expense
miums. Claims. Exes. Rate. Rate.
1925.. £26.055 £6.200 £ 13.800 23.8 p.c. 53.0 p.c.
1926.. 50,819 16.871 22,520 33.2 „ 44.3 „
1927.. 83,028 29,206 38,370 35.2 „ 46.2 „
1928.. 63,711 41,501 16,065 65.1 „ 25.2 „
1929 .. 58,765 34,999 15,859 59.6 „ 27.0 „
One result of the wider policy writing shows
up sharply in the loss rate, which, although
more favorable last year than in the pre-
vious term, was still very high, and it is
doubtful whether much, if any, relief can be
expected in that quarter so long as the bulk
of the business comprises motor-car risks.
The expense rate, which climbed 1.8 p.c.
during the year, is commendably moderate;
whether it can be kept at that level remains
to be seen. Net premiums fell away a further
£4946, due to a bigger proportion of the
risks being re-insured—gross premiums
(£176 682) were actually £14,322 heavier.
_The year’s underwriting surplus was
£7907 (up £1762) ; investments contributed
£3104, making the total surplus £ll,Oll. The
div. was lifted a couple of points, raising
it to 10 p.c., and things had not to be cut
fine to do it either. After earmarking £3196
for Jionuses to policy-holders, and adding
£2876 to the reserve for unexpired risks
(£23,418), making it 40 p.c. of the net
premium income, the £4939 of the year’s sur-
plus that remained was 21 £ p.c. on average
capital.
Future results will largely depend upon
the extent to which costs can be kept in
hand and the business developed The r-o ,
which is outs de the associated group of
underwriters, has gone to London for its
re-insurance treaties, and has had to pay
a bigger commission than formerly. And,
of course, locally it gets little of that class
of business to compensate for the tidy block
of premiums which it sends overseas. The
recently-opened Adelaide branch is expected
to show a profit during the current year,
but competition is keen, and will be keener.
During the year 912 U new urd. shares were
put out at a premium of 2s. 6d. That made
paid capital £22,1)15 in 5000 profs. and 40,830
ords., all £1 paid to 10s. The prefs. carry
a cum 8 p.c., have priority as to capital
and advance with the ords. in any distribu-
tion beyond that rate. Including the reserve
for unexpired risks, their cover amounts to
£l2 17s. 7d. per share in net tangibles. The
net tangible backing for the ords. is 30s. 4d.
ihe finances were comfortable. At April
30 outside debt totalled £33,764. including a
mortgage of £9OOO on the freehold, which
has a book value of £38,706. Public securi-
ties and cash amounted to £39 290; book
debts, £24,129; equipment, £4020. Policy-
holders could see net tangible assets amount-
ing to over one and three-quarter times last
year s losses, and shar holders could be called
upon for another £22,915.
Australian Cash Orders, Ltd.
Writ* Jtg.
March, Profits. Dividends. ten Off. serves.
£ £, £ £
22$ p.c. = 21.318 2,960 17,361
19„7.. 35 „ ~ 3.5,423 2,651 25,862
Goodwill written up £93,367, and that Deficit
amount capitalised 67 505
iqoo'* tMll H P-c. = 31.034 11.855 68 973
1929.. 40,182 15 „ „ 31,322 3,724 63,837
Phis has been one of the money-spinners
amongst Sydney’s cash order concerns. It
owes much to the very favorable circum-
stances of its birth nine years ago. Buclc-
lnghams, who are in the retail drapery trade
in Oxford-street and had developed a big
cash-order connection, decided to get back to
a stricter cash trading basis and virtually
made a present of a fine cash-order business
to some of their employees. It was in this
way the present co. began; and those in
control had graduated in the business. Then, ,
stimulated by the sudden leap to popularity
of credit buying, the volume of business
handled grew rapidly, enabling the manage-
ment to keep every penny of the funds con-
stantly employed. That, substantial trade
discounts, and apparently a fairly favorable
expc-i lence as far as bad debts are concerned
have produced some glittering results. And,
thanks to the board's very generous policy,
shareholders have had a royal time.
Of the £200.753 of paid capital at March
31 no less than £133.609. approximately two-
thirds, represents bonus scrip handed out
during the last seven years. The last’gift
was about two years ago, when £93.367 of
water was pumped into capital bv writing
?fioso°T Wlll that amount, making it
±112.057, at which figure it still stands. In-
cicl ntally, the “Wild Cat” has not treated
this intangible as an asset in its tables.
V’ “.a t made the wholesale writing up and
capitalisation of intangible values possible—
indeed desirable from the board’s point of
view—was the rich return that was being
got from the cash employed in the business.
One immediate effect has been that both the
profit and div. now wear a much loss corpu-
lent look m relation to paid capital than
formerly. Nevertheless the £40,182 netted
last year was 20 p.c. on capital as
. stood at the close of accounts; disregard-
ing the writing up in 1927 the ratio was
8 -Poo 7 , 7 p - c - com Pared with 39.4, 46
and 38 p c back to 1926. The 15 p.c. handed
to slmr; hold rs each of the last two ycarg
ili ioo-’ C 3 ed for less than 35 P-c. did
P ie Profits shown in the table are those
claimed by the accounts before visibly
making provision for bad debts, etc. (£5269
was so set aside last year), but after deduct-
ing the amount of the taxation bill for the
previous year. The sums shown as written
fn B of i net i withdrawals from the reserve
frl J 3 8,, depreciation and income-
rf ebc \ No doubt part of this ought to be
deducted from profits and not shown as
b "i impossible to distin-
guish between deductions for bad debts, for
instance, and depreciation. Last year’s
at e fS a ioo d re , rl . u r tion of £3724 left the total
*9, which, together with the undis-
tributed balance of the p. and I. account,
reduced the amount of eap'tal unrepresented
by tangible assets to £63.837 at March 31.
Here is a picture of the business as
four" years fisures refJeet it over the last
_ ~ 1926. 1927. 1928. 1999
Paid capital.. £98,774 £101,974 £198,446 £2OO$S3
Liabilities .. 52.589 46,410 53,099 80,808
Freeholds .. 39,065 39,135 39.135 39,135
Furniture, etc. 2,0'’8 2 264 2 545 2 706
Dook debts, etc. 136,028 137,805 142,490 171’,503
Loans on
n"l ortS + Se •* ““ 14,000 20,000
Cash, etc. .. 15,377 _L
u rr depends upon the soundness of
the book debts, etc. At March 31 they more
than twice covered the total outside liabili-
ties, which consisted of an overdraft of
£27,374 and £53,435 coming to sundry credi-
tors, A feature of the accounts is the
absence of stocks, notwithstanding that the
co. has its own furniture showrooms in Pitt-
street —freehold figures at cost, £39,135.
Maybe the furniture part of the business
amounts only to providing facilities for dis-
play and sales, but it is more likely that
there is some arrangement with manufac-
turers whereby a curtain is drawn over the
co.’s outlay on stocks at balancing date.
As far as the future of the business is con-
cerned it is likely to be much less specta-
cular than the past. The success of It. H.
Gordon’s and of this co. has brought a crop
of new cash-order concerns into the field
and competition is now very keen, and likely
to remain so. Also, 21 points was snipped
off the discount given cash-order cos. by
retailors last year, reducing the allowance
to 10 p.c., and further cuts seem likely.
The public is interested in 167,068 fully
paid £1 B shares, which have priofity as
to capital. In addition there are 18,700 A
(vendor!. 19,315 B paid to Is., and 14,019
C (employees’) shares. All scrip ranks
equally for dividends. For the B shares
sellers' recently asked 305., at which figure
the return is 10 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis;
but the backing amounts to only 16s. sd.
p n r share in net tangibles, mostly book
debts.
Caldwell’s Wines, Ltd. (Sydney).'
, Dividends. To Re- De-
Dee., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, fioit.
1920. . £11,392 8 p.c. 15 p.c. £9133 £2259 £468
1921.. 10.014 8 „ 15 „ 9650 )
Staff bonus .. ..£lOOO ) ~ ® U4
1922.. 6,085 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 6140 859
Reserves.
1923.. 13,237 8 „ 10 „ 89101 or R 9 9 ~ n ,
Staff bonus .. .. £765 ) ost>/ A7U-5
Property reserve, £17,641.. .. 20,344
1924.. 13,686 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 9160 7
Staff bonus, .. ..£lOOO 1 3626 23,8<U
1925.. 20.78-9 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 9616 7 qq 99 qo 7 q 9
Staff bonus .. ..£1250 ) 66,^1
1926 ' ’«+ 8 P-c. 1° p.c. 11,563 ( 6122 39,914
Staff bonus . . . . £l2yo )
1927.. 12,247 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 13,459 38,702
1928.. 10,262 8 „ 8 „ 11,472 37,492
When the public became interested in this
wine-and-spirit business 10 years ago paid
capital was £60,000; it had been raised to
£143.398 at the close of last accounts by
par issues. But earning have been unable
to keep step lately. After a temporary set-
back in 1922 gross profits consistently im-
proved until 1926, when they reached £58,401,
but fell away to £56,894 in the following
year, and to £52,813 for the last term, when
exes. (£42,451, including the previous year’s
taxation) were cut back only £347. Taking
into account movements in a special reserve
in connection with licenses (£24,056 —the
reduction was £lOO last year a.s against a
shrinkage of £1853 in the previous term),
the net result- was £1985 short of the 1927
figure, and only 7.2 p.c. on average capital
compared with 8.6, 15.4 and 20.6 p.c. back
to 1925. the year following that in which the
Federal Government granted the industry an
export bounty of 4s. per gallon. A couple
of points-was clipped off the ord. div., reduc-
ing it to 8 p.c., and then reserves had to
be dipped into for £l2lO to do it.
For last year’s poorer showing the board
blames many things, chiefly the Government’s
action in reducing the export bounty to Is.
9d. per gallon as from Sept. 1, 1927. This
bounty, by the way, expires on Aug. 31,
1930. But lack of efficient organisation, par-
ticularly at the marketing end, has been
one of the chief causes of the difficulty in
which the industry now finds itself. Aus-
tralia grows very fine wines, and has the
cl’mate which should make it a wine-drinking
country, but there is no organised effort
to make and keep the retail trade irre-
proachable. So instead of expansion there
is constant conflict with the anti-salooners,
who, in order to scotch a small evil, are
prepared to kill a national industry. More-
over, with a minimum price for grapes to
the grower, some merchants found it un-
profitable to export wine under the altered
conditions; hence local stocks piled up,
and, of course, retail prices suffered.
Others cleared their London consignments
at below ro=ff. thus upsetting the market for
the Australian article there. However, the
recent appointment of an Export Control
Board to supervise the grading and market-
ing of Australian wines abroad seems to
be a move in the right direct’on. A smaller
output is expected for the current year, and
better local prices are looked for, but any
worth-while improvement in the industry’s
domestic affairs is likely to take time.
Incidentally the lay-by shown in the table
cons'sts of a “special reserve, freehold and
leasehold properties,” £24,056, and the p.
and 1. balance, £l3.436—the latter is subject
to last year’s taxation. In addition there
is a general r n s°rve of £25,000, but that is
offset by a goodwill item of the same amount.
The property reserve was created in 1924,
when the 00. bought heavily in freehold and
leasehold licensed premises, and represents
the bonus values which the board attaches to
the licenses. Downward movements in this


ê
OBJECTS.
The Company is being formed for the purposes indicated in
its Memorandum of Association, but more particularly in the first
instance to acquire the property known as the Hotel Cronulla as a
going concern, together with the license, furnishings and plant and
the freehold property adjoining.
(b) To remodel Hotel and improve its buildings to provide
for increasing bar trade and additional guests.
(c) To carry on the business of Hotel-keepers on the above
premises. <
(d) To spend £6OOO on new buildings.
GENERAL.
This investment has sound security in Hotel building with four
acres of ground. Prior to the bridge being built a lease was given
at a premium and rental which, in itself, showed 1 0 per cent, return
over five years on £40,000. Under the present management,
indications are that shareholders will receive an even more satis-
factory return.
The property has increased in value very considerably by the
completion of the George’s River Bridge, which now connects
Cronulla with Sydney. This development has enhanced the value
of this Company’s real estate asset as well as adding very greatly
to the volume of its Hotel business.
FINE RESORT.
Cronulla is one of the most important and most attractive of
New South Wales seaside resorts. It is handy to Sydney, and offers
inducements to holiday-makers and overseas tourists, as well as
those in search of a permanent home.
TENNIS COURT AND GOLF LINKS.
Cronulla also has excellent Golf and Tennis Clubs. There is
good fishing at Port Hacking'. Regular communication with
National Park is maintained by boat and road.
The Bathing Beach is a magnificent stretch of sandy beach,
perfectly safe open bathing for visitors giving excellent surfing.
In conclusion, Cronulla provides an unequalled tourist resort
and at the same time many are taking up their permanent residence
in the district, so that Cronulla may easily be expected to become
one of Sydney’s most populous suburbs.
SECURITY FOR PREFERENCE SHAREHOLDERS.
Preference Shareholders are amply secured both as to capital
and dividend.
They have first preference against the capital assets and against
the profits.
The capital assets consist of the freehold property, both the
hotel and the adjoining land, the license, furniture, plant and stock-
in-trade and the proposed additions and improvements.
Out of the capital subscribed, £6OOO will be available for
expenditure on improvements and the extension of the business
generally. This will be left to the discretion of the Directors of
this Company. ,
As to dividends, the amount required annually to pay
mortgage, interest and preference dividends is £3025. The present
business is earning greater profits than that amount, and the Hotel
is taken over as a going concern, so that profit making is continuous.
THEREFORE ALL SHAREHOLDERS ARE “SAFE,” BOTH
FOR CAPITAL INVESTMENT AND FOR INCOME.
MANAGEMENT.
Fortunately there is a very competent manager at present in
charge of the hotel, and it is proposed to continue his services, which
are available to the company.
FULL PROSPECTUS AND ALL INFORMATION MAY BE
OBTAINED FROM THE SECRETARY.
APPLICATIONS SHOULD BE MADE DIRECT TO THE
SECRETARY OF THE COMPANY, NATIONAL MUTUAL
BUILDING, 350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY; OR THROUGH
ANY RECOGNISED BROKER.
CRONULLA HOTEL LIMITED
(Incorporated under the N.S.W. Companies Acts.)
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To the Directors
CRONULLA HOTEL, LIMITED,
350 George Street, Sydney.
3ix*s
irS ’l request you to allot me Preference Shares of £] e ach in Cronulla Hotel, Limited, in terms of Prospectus, and
Ordinary
10/-
per share
enclose the sum of being at the rate of s y‘ per share on application, and I undertake to pay a further 5 per
on allotment.
I agree to accept the said shares or any smaller number that may be allotted to me, and I authorise you to register me as the ho.der o
such of the said shares as may be allotted to me.
I agree to be bound by the Company’s Memorandum and Articles of Association when registered.
I acknowledge that this application is made in the terms of the within Prospectus and solely on the representations therein contained.
Full Name . Occupation
(State here whether Mr., Mrs. or Miss).
Address ........ 7.. Signature *
All cheques to be crossed “Not Negotiable.” Please add exchange. An official receipt will be issued by the Secretary.


THEY ”KEEP ON KEEPING ONI
I ~..11
...it
nil ! II
nlll II
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiti
‘••■•I L
■III llm
drm
3Z
<
S >
ill SSW)
BCg 2
Mg
cap-
"mi
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllll!
illll l ||“
Get your
Don’t Lose What
I You’ve Got
The future is uncertain.
Numerous companies are
showing greatly-reduced
profits.
Prices of many invest-
ments have fallen.
The wise man will watch
his little lot.
You may have everything
in insurance policies.
All the more reason to
see the offices are sound.
There are offices that are
not sound.
The leading Australian
authority on all these
matters is
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
July Number now on Sale.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM,
22/6. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
British and American Capital to Invest qji Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
_ The high efficiency of Pioneer Wood Pipe is con-
vincingly demonstrated on many important local in-
stallations. This excellent conduit has proved to
the hilt its remarkable durability—and its claim to
be absolutely non-corrosive. Low in first cost, cheap
and easy to handle, freight, lay and maintain, it
is the logical conduit for practically every form of
fluid conveyance. Those interested are invited to
write for free illustrated book of data. The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Bums Bay Road (near
Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Foots-
cray, Victoria.— Advt.
* * *
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.—Norman Hill & Co.,
Ltd., Cathcart House, Sydney, Rep. largest American
and European Smelters. Buyers Dirty Tin Ores,
Copper, Lead, Gold, Silver, Antimony, Wolfram,
Scheelite, Tantalite, Molybdenite, and other ores and
concentrates. Properties examined and reported on.
—Advt.
* * * *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagb
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS, —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. CotusoN & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * # *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree.— Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
&
, son
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DI
r* A
Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents, 26 30 Clarence St., Sydney
Insure with the
Australian Mutual Fire Insurance Society, Limited.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street Sydney.
The Oldest Mutual Fire Office in Australia.
Support the Australian Company which invests all its Funds in Australia.
Losses from Fire, Marine, Personal Accident, Motor Car, Plate-Glass
Breakages, Burglary, Guarantee, Live Stock, Crops, Stacks, Hailstone,
etc., Covered at Lowest Rates.
VICTORIAN BRANCH, Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH, 74-76 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly & Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
reserve apparently represent previous over-
valuations.
1922. 1926. 1927 1928
Paid capital . . £80,500 £125,000 £143,398 £143,398
Deposits . . 12,820 21,358 20,623 31,588
Mortgages, etc. 35,543 34,609 19,551
Overdraft . . 24,855 20,190 25,451 23,735
Other liabilities 15,631 29,966 26,684 13,811
Properties, plant,
etc. .. 45,773 151,795 160,063 157,763
Book debts .. 28,449 64,183 62,669 45,977
Stock . . 65,469 50,497 58,545 51,307
Cash, etc. . . 551 3,621 4,147 5,500
Shares in other
cos 13,233 15,900 18,900
During the year the heavy outside debt
(£88,685) was worked down £18,682. Stocks
were reduced £7238, and book debts were
£16,692 lighter. The more or less liquid sur-
plus (£14,099, including stocks) was £3895
lighter than at the previous balance. No hint
is given as to what allowance, if any, has been
made for depreciation, but plant, etc., is
valued at £2657 more than the £21,913 at
which it figures in the accounts. Altogether
the book value of fixed assets (£157,763)
decreased ±2300 during the year.
Paid capital is in 40,000 profs, and 103,398
ords. The prefs. carry a cumulative 8 p.c.
and have priority as to ral. Last year’s
profit was nearly three urnes their annual
requirements. The market prices them at
par; for the ords. it gives 17s. 6d. The
return at the latter figure is 9.1 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis. Including the property re-
serve the net asset backing amounts to £4
10s. 6d. per pref. share, and to 275. 3d.
for the ords. .
“Sun”-“News” Merger.
The most interesting business negotiations
of the past month in Sydney have been those
which at the moment of writing promise
an amalgamation of the Sun and Evening
News, the one owned by Sun Newspapers,
Ltd., the other by S. Bennett, Ltd. “Con-
versations,” if nothing more, have been going
on for some weeks, and were recently stimu-
lated by the Sun’s conspicuous publication
of a news item showing how persistently
S. Bennett shares had been sliding, and
explaining that the recent heavier fall was
due to reduced profit and a dilatory and
lower dividend. Meantime Sun shares were
enjoying a particularly active market. If
the contrast was not designed to influence
Bennett shareholders it was, at any rate,
bound to do so.
The Evening News was an old family
concern, in which, after Samuel Bennett’s
death, the children were the principal if not
the only persons interested. One of the
daughters was the wife of Heuniker Heaton,
Bart., formerly M.P. for Canterbury (Eng.),
and he w r as chiefly instrumental in waking
up the concern, which was being badly beaten
by the infinitely greater enterprise and dar-
ing of the Sun. Heaton was himself an old
advertising-space salesman; and he put it to
various influential Sydney retailers that what
they really wanted was a strong counterpoise
to the Sun, otherwise the latter would pre-
sently be able to demand from them what
terms and conditions it liked to name. The
seed dropped by Heaton bore its fruit; and
Holdings, Ltd., was formed to acquire a
large stake in the Bennett Co. Among the
men interested was Sydney Snow; and two
or three years ago, when the Sun was look-
ing about for one or two young and energetic
directors to add to its board, it chose Mr.
Snow for a place, and induced him to accept
a seat. He ought to have come in very handy
as a negotiator during the past month or so.
Holdings, Ltd., has not been a very en-
thusiastic co-operator, and other Bennett
interests have been disappointed with the
help it has given the co. Finally, S. Bennett,
Ltd., spent a good deal of money in setting
up a new sporting paper, which is said not
to have yielded the hoped-for financial results.
While, therefore, the Sun thrust ahead with
prodigious confidence, the Bennett interests
seem to be always the Ones to be pushed
aside, notwithstanding many great advan-
tages, including an exceedingly fine printing
plant.
In the circumstances Smith’s Newspapers,
Ltd., had hopes of satisfying some of its
ambitions. It has for several months past
had an arrangement with the News for giv-
ing one another certain assistance; and the
Guardian was all the keener on acquiring
the News because the Sun had acquired the
Daily Telegraph Pictorial. There has
thus been something of a battle between the
two interests to get hold of the News. The
News itself has been rather divided on the
subject. Some of those interested in Hold-
ings, Ltd., have been using exactly the same
argument that Hcnniker Heaton put for-
ward : if the Sun acquired the News, it
would have the advertising retailer more or
less at its mercy. Negotiations have not
therefore been easy.
According to the tentative scheme which
both interests admitted they were discussing,
Sun Newspapers, Ltd., is to be allotted
1,700.000 ords. and 850.000 prefs., and Ben-
netts 425,000 ords. and 212,500 prefs.
Whether all these shares are to be issued
as fully paid, what their face value is, and
what the preferences amount to has yet to
be stated. Assuming that they will be pound
shares, the associated co. will start with an
issued capital of at least £3,187,500, of which
a substantial part will represent goodwill.
According to published figures Sun News-
papers’ net tangible assets totalled £1,372,686
at March 31. Paid capital was £900,000
in 972,000 £1 shares paid to 18s„ and 56,000
(employees’) 10s. shares paid to 95., and
reserves £472,680, including the plant,
machinery and buildings reserve (£120,872)
and provision for contingencies and taxa-
tion (£215,000). In its last fiscal year the
co. netted £182,840, of which a 15 £ p.c. div.
took £143,360, equal to 5.6 p.c. on the pro-
posed holding in the associated co. For the
12 months to Oct. 31 last Bennetts netted
£57,874 and paid 9 p.c., equal to 6 p.c. on
its proposed holding in the new co. Paid
capital is £425,000, and net tangibles, in-
cluding provision for plant replacement
(£85,769), amounted to £475,690. The corii-
bined net earnings of the two cos. was equal
to 7.5 p.c. on an issued capital of £3,187,500.
Bennett’s last interim div., payment of
which was delayed, was at the rate of only
5 p.c. p.a„ and the pound shares, for which
the market paid 37 s. in August, 1928,
fetched only 235. 6d. last month. There was
a marked recovery in the price following
the announcement of the merger negotiations,
and buyers recently offered 31s. 9d. At that
figure the return is only 5.6 p.c. on a 9 p.c.
div. basis, and it is by no means certain that
that rate will be immediately restored. There
was considerable trading in the shares at
the low prices lately ruling.
If the merger is finalised the form of the
Evening News will be changed. The co.
will proceed on the same assumption as
Keith Murdoch’s friends who lately bought
both Advertiser and Register in Adelaide,
and turned the latter into a pictorial—that
is, that the pictorial is not really a com-
petitor of the ordinary newspaper at all, but,
on the contrary, one can be made a feeder
of the other.
Canadian Marconi Co.
Something over 20 years ago, when wireless
was the new wrnnder of the world, shares in
the Marconi Wireless Telegraph Co. of
Canada were offered in Australia and a
good many w T ere sold. Then there was a
long period of silence, and probably most of
the scrip-holders forgot all about their in-
vestment. They were $5 shares to start with ;
but subsequently these were reduced first to
s2£. and then to $l. At some time or other
the name was changed to Canadian Marconi
Co.; but there was just the same drought
in dividends under the new title as there
had been under the old. A succession of
heavy losses had been made; but gradually
these were reduced, and in 1925 a small profit
was shown.
The English Marconi Co. had owned a
majority of the shares; but recently, it is
said, a New York firm secured control.
Its efforts appear to have been strikingly suc-
cessful, so far, at any rate, as the market for
the shares is concerned. Early last year the
Wale Street Journal was satisfied that at
$4 the stock was quite high enough, and other
authorities declared it was much too high;
nevertheless it advanced steadily, passed $8
(335. 4d.) and a recent quotation was 355.
How much real business has been done at
those figures it is impossible to say. Appa-
rently there are on the market in New York
scrip of the three denominations, all dealt
in at the same price.
Dr. Jensen’s statement at Roma as to
rumors of bedrock being struck in certain
bores at Orallo and Roma crystallises current
opinion. He says that owing, in some cases,
to boring details not having been published,
these rumors must be at least considered,
and if found to be correct would necessitate
a review of the whole prospecting campaign,
and perhaps justify a change to pastures
new. The market’s response to this was an
immediate sharp drop in the price of oil
scrip.
Jensen’s remarks are justified ; there cannot
be too much clarity about the information
affecting prospects where so much good Aus-
tralian cash is concerned. Rumors were
first heard to the effect that granite had
been struck in a certain bore, following
a sudden reversal of policy on the question
of deep sinking. This was denied, but it was
made clear that a non-conformable series had
been encountered. Since business interests
here are still being asked to support the
search for oil, and to keep the possible in-
dustry out of alien hands, an official state-
ment should be made clarifying the position.
All oil boring is under the supervision of
the Government.
* * * *
General-manager Travers, of the Whit-
worth Finance Corp., which has taken up a
group of tin mines back o’ Cairns (N.Q.),
is piping much the same optimistic lay as
Fred Brown did when he disposed of his
interests. Profit estimates were then so
munificent that they were received by old
hands in the north with incredulity, especi-
ally as it was evident that they must have
been based on old data and not on any new
campaign of prospecting work. Anyway,
activity is the keynote now, for it is whis-
pered that big finance in the shape of two
directors will be on the field shortly, and
it is desired to have the new mill ready
and yawning for ore which it is expected
will be in the bins from the open cut at
the Governor Norman. Whether this cut
will average expectations is a point that
outsiders would like to see demonstrated. If
so, it would give the 30-head mill an excellent
start.
As to other activities, the Vulcan has
been de-watered to about 400 ft.; four pros-
pecting shafts on the Norman have dropped
to one; Koorboora and Gurrumbah are still
quiescent. Thirty head of stamps take some
feeding on two or three shifts. It is to be
hoped that the common sin of Australian
mining has been eliminated, and that com-
mensurate supplies of payable ore are already
blocked out and not left to the fate of an
unnecessary gamble. Queensland metal
mining badly wants a lift up such as a
company like this could give, but if too opti-
mistic hopes are engendered and then not
realised, it only reacts on the next venture
when the call for capital comes along.
* * * *
“Old Warden”: There is a lot of interest
in the announcement that good gold has been
struck by a prospecting party in the Geor-
gias, part of the Solomon Islands. The
group, nearly all small islands, lies west of
Ysabel, and almost due east of Woodlark
Island, a well-known Papuan field.
What attitude the British Colonial Office
will take towards the find, if it is authentic,
remains to be seen. In the past, any attempt
to prospect and develop the country was
not only sternly discouraged, but actually
prevented. A change of heart may have
occurred, though there has never been any
public indication of it. That the natives
away from the coast are “difficult” won’t
matter much if the gold is there.
sfc
“Apprentice”: The reason for now using
only half the South mine boilers is almost
wholly because power consumption has de-
creased through exhaustion of dumps and
otherwise. Those who are estimating tb - cost
of the proposed new oil plant should remem-
ber that £300,000 at manufacturer’s works
will probably be doubled by the time the
power is produced on the mines site hen-.
This has been well known at Broken Hill as
the basis for calculating cost of new power.
* * * *
“O.B.” : Bigger tonnages, improved returns,
larger profits and early divs. have frequently
been predicted by the controllers of Lake
View and Star, but somehow they don’t
eventuate. There is now talk of 40,000 tons
a month being treated before long. Years
ago I heard the chairman say at a meeting of
the co. in London that, all going well,
profits would be doubled immediately and a
resumption of divs. would follow. These high
expectations have not yet been realised, nor
is there any sign of it.
* * * *
Big Bell, near Cue (W.A.), has cost an
English Syndicate, represented by Herman
Mandelstam, a few thousand in more or less
encouraging boring during the past year. But
if the sixth hole, now in progress, turns up
trumps it is said that capital running into
five figures is assured for development. Big
Bell has one of the giant gold-bearing ore
bodies in the West, but so far the grade
has only been sufficient to break, even, and
at times has not been good enough to do
that. Dorrie Doolette had hopes of turning
the Bell to profitable account, and was in
possession of it when he died.
* * * *
Golden Butterfly board whooped the other
day about “a pound for pound subsidy to
the extent of £12,000 to £15,000” which it
said had been granted by the Westraliau
Mines Department. Actually all that has
been done so far is that the co. has been
advised of the terms on which the necessary
assistance might be favorably considered
subject to an inspection and report.
London-controlled Star Emerald Co.
(W.A.) is again blowing about its prospects.
As the Colombian mine in South America
is nearly worked out it is claimed that the
Star Emerald will shortly be the biggest pro-
ducer in the World. So far only a few cut
gems have been sold; most of them have not
fetched high prices owing to fractures. The
controllers of the show are banking on better
stones being found at depth, but indications
are not promising.
* x * *
Three of Alluvial Tin’s offspring. Rawang,
Serendah and Serendah South, are to be
merged into Rawang Tin Fields, Ltd., a
new co. with a nominal capital of £l,OOO 000
in 10s. shares, of which 1,750,000 paids will
be issued. Rawang takes 960,000. four for
one; and Serendah and S. South 396,000
each. 12 for five. Rawang, the only one of
the trio producing, has been turning out
steady monthly averages for years past.
Serendah expects to have its big new dredge,
which is to handle up to 200.000 c.y. per
month, running by the end of October. This
property has been bored to go a pound a
yard. The whole area now held by the amal-
gamation is estimated at from jib. to 31b.
per c.y., though it is reasonable to expect
there won’t be much at the latter figure.
Rawang Concessions, another Alluvial Tin
float, joined the list of producers last week.
The co. was launched in 1927 to take over
some 1000 acres of l|lb. ground from
Rawang. The dredge is a big one, and if
values approximate estimates the co. should
give a good account of itself.
Tanah Biji, a holding co. also fathered by
Alluvial Tin, has cabled that the check bor-
ing of its Berjuntai area has confirmed
earlier estimates. The boring was done by
Anglo-Oriental, the big London concern pro-
minent in connection with the deal in Allu-
vial Tin’s properties in Malaya last year. A
co. is to be formed in London to equip and
work the Berjuntai proposition.
* * * *
Silaya Tin, registered in Sydney in 1920 to
acquire dredging areas in Malaya, has not
had much luck. All the areas tested proved
“extremely disappointing,” and the hunt has
been discontinued. Paid capital is £28.822,
of which exes, in Malaya have eaten £10,141.
* * * *


CONSIGN TO
Goldsbrough, Mort 8 Company Limited
SYDNEY
Wool, Produce and Insurance Brokers
Fat Stock, Stud Stock Auctioneers
Store Stock and Property Salesmen
ADVANCES MADE AGAINST CONSIGNMENTS OR THE GROWING WOOL CLIP
ë
K. de L.
CUDMORE,
WILLIAM
BOWIE,
Joint Managers.
CHARLES
HOPE,
Asst. Manager.
A. H. MOORE,
Chairman of
Advisory Board
ē
WRITE US FOR YOUR STATION SUPPLIES.
ĕ
“Slips along smoothly, doesn’t she?”
“Oh, you mean the car..,.1 was looking
at the poster **
“That slips along smoothly, too!”
“You use a Valet yourself?’*
“Never used any other since I started
shaving.”
"Why so faithful?”
“Because it never lets me down. You
see, the blades are —”
“Ah, the blade’s the thing!**
“ —are stropped to perfection automati-
cally by a device in the razor itself.”
“Sounds good. But I’ve no time in the
mornings.’*
“Don’t need it! Ten seconds on the strop
without taking anything to pieces gives
you a blade as good as new.”
“Sounds ideal now! Where can I—?”
“Any dealer’s. 3/-, 10/- or 22/6 for the
entire set, all with the same principle.”


rJKfii
'f&SXfa*
yjti/iiy.i V
V.% :/>f
<vi vv; •;'/-
wmM
*» % v/ .»,7; •/.;
9 | -'V ?&&jviS&s
.if’ i
3S&S
•WW'
.^V
4V;* •*s*s£?»
mo^-
■ f'.\'\ VO *i ’
'M j :Vr
H Ifit
’:*•’.'*.£• JV't. vn .
* ; »SiC fev?j £ H&&Z:
m
Bn
i*Msas
m
‘O.'.C-
*' ’
wp i® pp pi § $
W<*l
ifeji
<V:I2
. -■ " •••'•'•-V’V •••
V
*&<&«
M-
.••Tf.Xv'ftvV?
V'.;...,
4 <8
>S,
V:
)<-r
«
i'SyW’Sjr
J 5-;
fi't#
x.ri
■;s\
*
Pi
£534
sssasti
a***
'■'’* l '•' ~j; '
pas*
mm?*
•: V::
ig
?£?;f*43ra*E
SKi
-•'.Vi
-*iVi.v;Vt:;^»7^
t'SjLC'i
&mS^mmUm
;*. .•!'.•<*!»'!•>•:•! V'l.
7X&*.
V&
';mm
3g '
jesaii
KiKV
«!Te'.''
sSrSa^al^’
~ Mm?- ..
■mmmm
*S&KT
•GfaiteiP-
ßWs
S«5
'ji/Svi&SS
' f'i<
nffii-•
w
-■T /
«sss
•r^- 5
M)--'
MPii
•»»
wWws&
w&s&m
■■&g&sgiiGS&
zsiiit&iS&m
yt ■ ‘ ■.
wm
s&Wz
mm
Safi mr“2! , ttr?i&&'f
SISIS
. :
C»^a' 1 . , . l . l ‘‘^
Out of the mists —the white cliffs of Dover loom beneath the
* Southern Cross.*’ The shadow of the great plane sweeps
across the channel waters and the last stage of the great flight
is completed.
Throughout the whole Australia-England flight, the
“Southern Cross’’ was in touch by radio. Included in the radio
equipment on this big flight were Clyde Batteries, which
were selected by Squadron-Leader Kingsford-Smith because
of their proved dependability.
CLYDE BATTERIES
for Radio, Cars and Home-lighting are made by The Clyde Engineering Co., Ltd.,
Granville, N.S.W., largest makers of storage batteries in Australia.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL RADIO DEALERS AND GARAGES.
In addition to Clyde Storage Batteries, the radio equipment of the, “Southern Cross’ ’
included Burgess Dry Batteries and Osram Valves.
BATTERY SALES DEPARTMENT:
Main Service Station, 106-110 Goulbum Street, Sydney.
INTER-STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
The Clyde Engineering Co., Ltd., The Clyde Engineering Co., Ltd., Cornell, Limited,
Brisbane. Melbourne. Adelaide.
W. & G. Genders Pty., Ltd., Elliott & Kiesey, Ltd.,
Launceston and Hobart. Perth.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic P-isk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
5
*1
“STONEWALL
SHOES for MEN
IN SCIENTIFIC LASTS.
ROOM FOR EVERY TOE.
Roots or Shoes in Black, Tan and Nigger
Calf. Welt Soles.
296
BETTER GRADES, 37/6
Recommended by Leading Surgeons.
Postage, 1/-; Inter-State, 1/8.
Send Desk li for Catalogue.
JACKSONS L T .°
Stone wall' Stores.
Car Pitt 6 Goulbura Sts. Sydney.
s22B*.
The Sign o£
QUALITY
The Wunderlich Trademark is
a sign of quality it is your
guarantee of sterling value in
the following materials:—
Art Metal Ceilings, Terra Cotta
Roofing Tiles, Asbestos Cement
(Durabestos) Building Sheets.
Look for the trademark on these
products, when you purchase.
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Eureka”: I nominate as the hottest place
in Australia Marble Bar (W.A.)', the ter-
WHAT NEST-EGGS ARE FOR.
AUNTIE: “Find any eggs, Marjorie?”
MARJORIE: No. Auntie—only the ones the hens measure by.”
ramus of the 114 miles of railway from Port
Hedland. In 1901 the lowest maximum tem-
perature for 100 consecutive days was 103
degrees, the highest shade reading during
that period being 120.5. The record night
temperature, however, is held by Bemboka,
South Coast, N.S.W., where the thermometer
registered 110 degrees at midnight. True,
the town was surrounded by bush fires.
* * * *
“Homfrey Beale” : Most people regard bull-
ants as bundles of gratuitous and implacable
hostility to man, but I’ve proved that this
(like the belief that caterpillars suckle their
young) is erroneous. Near my camp is a
bull-ants’ nest numbering many thousands in
population. I’ve been in the habit for some
months past of feeding the ants with meat
scraps, and they’ve be-
come so tame that they’ve
been in the habit of
forming a circle round
the camp-fire every night
to listen to my singing,
and it is quite affecting
to see them wave their
antennae enthusiastically
when I’m in particularly
good voice. This in my
ignorance of bull-ant
nature I attributed to a
selfish desire for free
entertainment. But one
morning I slept in, and
my rabbit carcases were
in danger from the crows.
Immediately a crowd of
ants crawled over my
face to wake me. I knew
then that they took a real
interest in me, I had
further proof yesterday.
I’ve been ill and collapsed
from weakness about 50
yards from the tent. I
hadn’t been lying there
many minutes when I
perceived my whisky
bottle rolling towards me. As it neared I
saw. that it was ; propelled by some thou-
sands of bull-ants in massed formation. A
couple of nips and I was right. I still feed
them. ' '
* * H: *
“P;M.”: Wirths’ circus carries about a
dozen elephants, and there’s usually trouble
among the horses when they turn up. At
Kerang (Vic.) some years ago an old horse
< pulling a lorry drew round a corner and
came within wind of half a dozen elephants.
He stood shivering for a couple of minutes,
and then sank to the ground dead. It is
the smell and not the sight that does it.
ROUGH ON THE OWLS.
PARSON (speaking to Jacky about the spread of religion): "Yes, Jacky. Soon there
shall be no more darkness upon the earth.”
JACK Y: “ By cripe, boss, that make poor plurry mopoke wonder wot struck ’im!”
A butter factory in which I worked
had two totally blind mares, which were
used in a lorry carting cream from the
railway station. When Wirths’ elephants
were hauling the cage-waggons to the station
the pair could not be induced to enter the
station yard.
* * * *
“0.W.W.”: After the recent ’quake my
wife noticed a crack in the road near neigh-
bor Henare’s gate, so she called over the back
fence, “Have you seen the fissure at your
gate, Mr. Tupari?” “Py chove, t’at kapai,”
answered the native, and he went joyfully
away to reconnoitre. A few minutes later
he returned, very downcast. “Py korry,
hart ruck I miss te kood kai,” he said. “T’at
fish-oh ko pefore I ket him!”
$ * * «
“C.M.C.”: I-lori was having trouble with
his old Ford. “Anything we can do?” we in-
quired, bringing our car alongside. A broad
grin illuminated Hori’s ample features. “No
tanks, she orrite —she go good in a minute,”
was the cheerful answer. So we left him to
it, but found, on our return two hours later,
Hori still grappling with Lizzie. Again wo
stopped. “Wliat! nothing doing yet, ITori?”
we asked. Minus boots, coat and collar,
grimy and dishevelled, he grinned back. “She
orrite —go any minute now-—I fix her.” “But
why take your boots off?” we wanted to
know. Hori grinned more engagingly than
ever. “If I have te poots on,” he explained,
“I kick te prurry ting to pieces.”
=l= * * *
“Sappho Suds”: I heard my old mining
friend Sandy Grant, of Misima Island
(Papua), was very ill. There was no medi-
cal man in the vicinity, and I had had a
little experience in island nursing, so I
climbed up the steep paths to his mountain
home. Dogs barked madly as I came within
hail. Presently out of the door was thrust
a gun. “Scoot, else I’ll shoot, ye reptile!”
said a husky Scotch voice. Then bang went
the gun and a bullet whizzed over my head.
In my fright I pulled my old felt hat off and
down tumbled my mop of hair. “God! It’s
sinabada [a white woman]. Why did ye
come in breeks like a mon? I thocht ye was
that prowling cow was wantin’ to wed my
Jeannie.” Jeannie’s mother was a native
woman, and Jeannie was not so young, as
brides go ; but that’s neither here nor there. I
drank a cup of tea, rubbed Sandy’s back
with liniment and had a chat with his two
lonely and isolated half-caste daughters.
When I departed I noticed a native was still
posted at a peephole with a gun to keep off
would-be wooers.
•I* *!* u*
“Theodoric”: Hundreds of rural towns and
country districts in Victoria linking into the
Yallourn and Sugarloaf electric-power sys-
tem are making obsolete the wood-burning
fireplaces that used to characterise the chilly
southern State. In midland Vic. I was in-
trigued by the architecture of a farmstead
living-room. The rubble-cement fireplace
extended the full width of the room, and
was indeed a sub-room in itself, fitted with
inglenooks. The main door flanked the fire-
place, and I noticed that opposite this, now
papered over and bearing picture-rail and
pictures, was evidence of another door as
big. It was explained that in pioneer days
an Bft. length of tree-trunk was snigged by
horses which passed through the doorways,
and laid in front of the great fireplace. The
horses led through, the log was pinch-barred
into the fireplace, where it burned for a week.
* * * *
“G.8.L.” : In a book describing life in Aus-
tralia in 1825, a naval surgeon has a passage
showing that the most fantastic and opti-
mistic lies sometimes become verities. “An
eminent mineralogical dilettante who made a
casual trip among us some years back,” he
writes, “nearly turned the hitherto sober
heads of some of our plodding colonists by
the valuable mines of gold he predicted their
lands to contain, from the rich specimens
of that precious metal which he picked up
thereupon, even before their eyes. The
golden dreams Were suddenly dissipated by
a convict servant whispering in his master's
ear, ‘I see’d the gemman take the stone out
of his pocket, drop it on the ground, and
pick it up again.’ ”
* * * *
•’ One of the ways in which Maori-
land differs essentially from Australia is the
extent to which the M.L. population has
devoted itself to the propagation of imported
trees, shrubs and flowers, and the contempt
and mdiffierence in which the native flora is
held. In such old-settled provinces as Canter-
bury Pinus insignis, oak elm, willow, walnut,
poplar, plane, beech and birch diversify the
flat landscape, with only here and there a
grove of bluegums or a cabbage-tree or two
to suggest the Southern Hemisphere. The
native trees, such as the totara, the indi-
genous pine (Rimu) and beech, and the
lordly kauri are found in quantify only in
areas either inaccessible or unfit for culti-
vation or settlement. The vast native forests
are valued only for their timber, and as gov-
ernmental and commercial replanting is prin-
cipally confined to Pinus rddiata and Pinus
insignis, the Maoriland trees are a dying
race. And though the bush contains a thou-
sand varieties of shrubs and trees suitable
for hedges, the Maorilander chooses gorse or
hawthorn to fence, his paddocks and laurel
or macrocarpa for his garden.
* * * *
"Matildaman”: The application of brandy
or rum m which a centipede has been for
some time preserved to a wound inflicted
by the insect is an. old bush remedy. A
scrub quack,” working in conjunction with
an abo. medicine-man, evolved it. The white
man had great faith in spirits as a wound
lotion; the black man had proved that the
essence of a ’pede killed the noxiousness of
pede poison. So they associated the two.
(Continued on page 25.)
PROOF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He’s kept it dark, or so he thinks, but I ain’t
such a fool;
He thinks he has me bluffed orlright because
I’ve took things cool.
It’s like a man to think that he can blind
a woman so;
Perhaps he’d get a bloomin’ shock if he knew
wot I know!
It’s “Ta, ta, Mum, I’m goin’ out, an’ won’t
be home to tea;
An’ don’t you worry if I’m late, or wonder
where I’ll be.
Jim Higgs is goin’ out to-night to hunt that
wombat down.”
An’ then he climbs aboard his mare, an’ off
he goes to town.
An’ w’en I sees his coat nex’ day I finds
a powder mark.
An’ yet he thinks he’s wise enough to keep
me in the dark!
An’ then, besides, there’s hair on it —but
’tisn’t wombat’s hair.
I never knew a wombat yet whose shaggy
coat was fair.
An’ that ain’t all. I did his room, an’
found inside a box,
Among his shirts an’ ties an’ hat, beneath
a pair o’ sox,
A catalogue from them there stores, of
joolery an’ things, , i
With thumb-marks all across the page where
they had put the rings!
VICTOBIA.
P. T. F.


r
&
w
' DUNLOP
the Tyre
i rrj
HI/ M
x\
'A
y who n
travels on
DUNLOP
travels
Sv well/ A
x
N\>\
X
x
i i V
A '
few
facts*
about
Twisted
Cotton Cord
1 DUNLOP CORD
1 (15-Fold) Each
cord is composed of 15
single threads which, in
groups of 5, are twisted
into 3 strands, and, in turn,
again twisted into one cord
.. . see (1). Exhaustive
tests all over the world have
established that this formula
is the best for cord tyre con-
struction, from the points of
view of. . .Strength. . .Resist-
ance to flexing . . . Ample elas-
ticity to meet road conditions.
O STRENGTH 120 Cords
" will support a weight of one
ton, and there are approximately
12,000 cords in a Standard 30in.
Dunlop Balloon Cover.
3 STRETCH—There is a correct
amount of stretch for tyre cords.
TOO LITTLE means that the tyre
will not have the elasticity and flexi-
bility to withstand the shocks and blows
it receives in use. TOO MUCH means
that the tyre will stretch unduly when
inflated; will give rise to excessive internal
stretching and working in the casing,
causing friction between the plies and their
ultimate separation; will render the tyre
“flabby” and not lively, and will absorb
much more engine power to drive the car.
DUNLOP CORDS HAVE EXACTLY
THE “HAPPY MEAN " in stretch.
A RESISTANCE TO FLEXING—The
* twist given to Dunlop Cords has been
tested thousands of times, and proved to be
that best adapted to resist the millions of
flexings or bendings that a tyre gets in use.
Experience has taught Dunlop—that strength
is not the main factor in tyre cord (if it were,
obviously the best cord would be made of steel);
also, that stretch is not the main factor (if
maximum stretch were desired, cord would be
made of rubber) ; again, that resistance to flexing
is not the main factor.
C THE BEST CORD—“DUNLOP’"—has
the above three qualities combined, developed
to meet the conditions required to build a tyre to
stand up to the stresses that modern motoring
imposes. Dunlop Cords have been developed
along these lines, and no one factor has been
developed at the expense of the others.
44. THE USE OF TWISTED COTTON CORDS IS NO INNOVA-
TION—FOR EVEN AS FAR BACK AS 1896, DUNLOP WAS
CONSTRUCTING. WEEKLY, IN AUSTRALIA, THOUSANDS
OF CYCLE TYRE CASINGS WITH TWISTED CORD, AND
HAS USED IT EVER SINCE. DUNLOP CORD TYRES
WERE USED SUCCESSFULLY IN ENGLAND ON RACING
CARS—IN 1907. IN THE THINGS THAT COUNT, DUNLOP
IS INVARIABLY FIRST.
.the Twisted Cotton
Sinews
that have made possible the World’s
Greatest Motoring Achievements.
Unparalleled!
THE world for many years has followed with interest the wonderful feats recorded
by the automobile - but few outside those closely associated with the manufacture
of motor tyres realise that the more durable tyres of to-day have really been
evolved from knowledge and data obtained from tests of speed and endurance.
The unparalleled successful association of Dunlop with most of the world’s greatest
motoring achievements was possible because out of experience was born the knowledge
of how to avoid faults in materials weakness in construction enabling Dunlop,
year after year, to pass on to motorists the better and yet better service that has kept
Dunlop pre-eminent for such a long period. These crucial tests to-day more
searching than ever before - quickly determine the efficiency of tyres by imposing
terrific stresses on both the tread and fabric casing _ and the unchallengeable ability
of Dunlop to “stand up” to astounding speeds (reaching to 231 m.p.h.; provide
definite proof of tyre efficiency Dunlop quality Dunlop knowledge!
Such tests have enabled Dunlop to make rubber tougher . . . have proved to Dunlop
that the degree of twist and elasticity as embodied in Dunlop “ Cord ” ensures to
motorists that greater durability for which Dunlop covers are noted.
Thus has been evolved the tyre that best defies wear and yet has ample resiliency
to meet all the conditions that modern motoring imposes.
That Dunlop knows how to and does build the “tyre exceptional” is told in the
appended world’s greatest automobile achievements—all established on tyres
constructed of just the same rubbed and twisted fabric cords as are embodied
in the Dunlop tyres available to motorists at 8000 Australian garages and
tyre houses:
231 m.p.h. by Sir Henry Segrave, in America -...0n Dunlop
218 m.p.h. by Capt. Malcolm Campbell, in Africa .... ffi ..on Dunlop
212 m.p.h. by Capt. Malcolm Campbell (fors miles), in
Africa ... ••• ... on Dunlop
206 m.p.h. by Capt. Malcolm Campbell, in America on Dunlop
203 m.p.h. by Major H. O. D. Segrave, in America ,on Dunlop
2724 miles in 24 hours ( 113.4 m.p.h.) by Marchand,
Morel and Kiriloff, in France ... on Dunlop
128 miles in the hodr by Marchand, in France ...on Dunlop
15,000 miles, average speed of 66 m.p.h., by
Hon. Victor and Mrs. Bruce, in France ...on Dunlop
2200 miles in 24 hours ( 91.6 m.p.h.) by Mrs.
Bruce, in France ... ... .... ...on Dunlop
England to Australia (17000 miles)
by Francis Birtles ••• on Dunlop
Around Australia (11,000 miles),
Macßobertson’s Expedition, with trucks
loaded to 7 tons each on Dunlop
and hundreds of other outstanding feats, the
recapitulation of which is unnecessary to
emphasise the fact that Dunlop builds
exceptional tyres.


PEAPES
i Clothe men AND their sons.
i
i The prestige which surrounds
' any article from PEAPES is
1 the direct result of sixty-three
]' years’ adherence to better
| QUALITY, better VALUE,
I better SERVICE.
i
George Street,
| Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
m
..JESSES
P'HEGREYS
SIZE 0 T WO
SILKCUT VIRGINIA
DRAP
EYS
IL® for CIGARETTES 2® for JL/&
They Satisfy
because they are made from 100
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys”
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a "GREYS.”
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights”
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20.
Send\o
woo\
Car
son
The
Words
on the
Bale
are brimful of wisdom. The action they indicate
produces satisfaction for growers. Hence the wide
popularity of Winchcombe, Carson as selling brokers,
Close supervision of each client’s wool by the
management is an outstanding force in the firm’s
work. Write
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
LTD<
Winchcombe House, Bridge Street,
Sydney, or 99-101 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
“Erua”: The book-keeper at the up-
country store has troubles that are not of
his own making. It takes a lot of talking
to get Dad and Mum and the family to under-
stand that the cash-box is sacred, and tha';
a few shillings casually abstracted are apt
to cause the young man from town who
keeps the books a sleepless night. One youth
who took a post in an out-back store attri-
A PURTY TO-DO ’ERE.
NICKY TREDINNICK: “What’s wrong with ’ee, Will’m Henry?”
WILLIAM HENRY MEVAGIZZY: “That danged bootmaker! I told un to maakc one boot
longer’n th’ awther, an’ he bin an’ maade one shoorter ’n the awther.”
butes to his experiences there a nervous
breakdown that caused him to give up in-
door work and take a scrub-cutting job in-
stead. One of the minor incidents in his
sojourn at the store was the disappearance
of £l4 out of the cash. No amount of
questioning threw any light on the mystery,
and the hapless book-keeper was faced with
the prospect of producing the money or hav-
ing a talk with the auditor. The auditor
was terse and suspicious, and the youth
finally went to a near-by farmer and managed
to borrow the missing amount. The affair
was six weeks old when a relative of the
family, who lived a few miles out, strolled
in to make a few purchases, and, just about
to depart, said, “Strutb, but I owe yer
some money.” “Wish it was £l4, ’’ said the
book-keeper, gloomily. “That’s it,” said
Uncle affably. “The larst time I wus in
there wus nobody here, an’ Jim Maloney
come along with a cow I liked the look
of. I borrowed the mouey outer the cash-
box an’ fergot all about it.” Thereupon he
produced an odorous roll of notes and lab-
oriously counted out 14 of them while the
book-keeper stood in a trance induced by
mingled relief and indignation.
* * * *
“Lily-Beale”: Years ago. camping in a
deserted hut near l’illiga (N.S.W.), my mate
and I were disturbed by a soft cooing sound
apparently coming from the roof,
and repeated at intervals of a few
minutes. Just before sundown we
heard the same noise coming from
the woodlieap, and on investiga-
tion discovered two large snakes,
which we killed. A few nights
later we were camped on the fringe
of the scrub, and had just turned
in when the same cooing sound
made us sit up simultaneously. A
snake was plainly discernible in
the moonlight. Since then I hav-
often located the reptiles by then
call, but never save towards the end
summer, which is the snake’s mating season.
sjs * :J: *
“Grafton”: The topographical survey of
the Clarence Valley is proving a very big
job, liable to have big results. It seems
strange that within the oldest State there
should be such a vast area of country so
little known. On the eastern side of the river
the country between the Clarence and the
Richmond Range has been surveyed nearly as
far north as Bonalbo. On the western side
420,000 acres have been surveyed between
the Clarence and the Mitchell, extending west
of the Mitchell to the Gibraltar Range, a
watershed between the Rocky and the Clar-
ence. The huge valley of the Washpool is
now having the tapes run over it. It is
30 miles in length and, roughly, 170 square
miles in extent. There is not a track through
the valley. It is quite unexplored, though
there are rumors of valuable timbers and
good soil. Two parties will survey the west-
ern section between Lionsville and Tabulam,
while two others work on the northern sec-
tion between Bonalbo and the Queensland
border.. The survey will reveal many things
—accessibility, suitability of /the land for
settlement, timber, geological formations, rail-
way routes, etc. Some of the country is
thick jungle, the survey parties having to
cut tracks for the packhorses.
“Tanda Marta” : In spite of wails about
the low price of pearls in the Trobriands,
there are still a few plums to be picked up
at the game. Within the last month a
Torres Strait diver, who was down a trifle
deeper than he should have been, managed to
secure one. ll© picked up a big shell, and
when it was opened a large blister was ex-
posed—a highly-polished protuberance of
mother of pearl on the inner surface of
the shell. The shell was laid aside on the
deck, and some heavy object accidentally
fell across it, splitting the shell and laying
open the blister. Out popped a fine pearl,
quite undamaged, which turned the scale
at. 42 carats, and was subsequently whittled
down in the process of cleaning to 17. A
local buyer purchased it for £(>00. The cul-
ture pearls from Japan are formed in quite
a small oyster, an entirely different species
AS ANY GENTLEMAN MIGHT.
PERCY (to somebody he sees in the mirror): “No, ot’ fellow, you’ve (hic) got into
wrong housh — I’m thish (hie) lady s huzhband!"
from the large one found in Australian
waters. Pearls and blisters are freely pro-
duced in from two to two and a half years
after “operation,” hut the resulting article
has not the same fine lustre as the
naturally formed one, owing to the different
species used, and the natural pearl will
always command a higher price.
* * * *
“Curlamo”: I wonder if the residents
of Poowong (Vic.) are aware that Binglii’s
poowong was a blowfly. The fashionable Melb.
suburb of Moonce Ponds was named after
one of Captain Dana’s abo. troopers who
lived there. The early residents, objecting
to the name, coined Kleano, but despite their
efforts the blackfellow’s monnicker remained.
The Ponds is one of the very few suburbs
in Australia which perpetuate the name of
an abo.
* * * *
“Werrimee”: Mount Poole, near Milpar-
inka (N.S.W.), which has been drought-
dined to a dust patch, was recently left
by the owners to a couple: of caretakers, the
few surviving sheep on the run being shorn
in the paddocks on tarpaulins. The latest
scorch is about the worst the old ranch has
known since Sturt’s party camped there for
some time in the summer of 1844-45. A
small hollow marks the dugout where they
lived, and on top of Mt. Poole, named after
the second-in-charge, who died there, is the
cairn of stones they built, presumably for
exercise, as each man, it is said, was required
to carry a stone to the top every morning.
The waterhole known as Depot Glen is not
much more than a soak in Evelyn Creek,
but has beautiful rocky surroundings. At
that spot Sturt abandoned the boat he had
brought with him to cross the inland sea
he expected to find there. It afterwards
formed part of the verandah of Mt. Poole
homestead.
*
“Fingerpoint” : The members of the police
patrol that was beaten back to Darwin from
Cape Domby were lucky to escape with their
lives. The abos. in those parts love cutting
throats and reckon that luggers and their
crews are legitimate prey. They have col-
lected a respectable tally of luggers during the
last 10 years, and have acquired two more
20-tonners since Christmas. The Caledon
Bay mob and the Kulka-doons will fight
at the fall of a leaf. About Christmas-time
they surprised the crew of the Kushi Motu,
cut the throats of every soul aboard, and
completely stripped the vessel. In the case of
the other lugger there was a lively scrap.
The crew were Japs., Malays and a sprink-
ling of abos. One of them had a pretty wife.
When the lugger was on the shelling grounds
off Groote Eylandt the skipper, a Japanese,
picked a quarrel with the man who owned
the pretty wife and shot him dead with his
revolver, firing with his other hand on the
tiller. As the lugger heeled over to a puff
of wind the murdered man’s brother leaped
aft and tomahawked the captain. An abo.
killed the slayer of the captain, but was
set on and immediately battered to death.
His wife joined the mel4e, a screaming fury,
and knifed men right and left. Three Bis-
kerton nigs., fishing in a canoe, came across
the stricken ship drifting with her load of
death. There was one man, dying, stretched
across the windlass. The nigs, waited until
the man gasped out his story, and then
clubbed him. A whole flotilla of Caledon
Bay bucks came into the picture at this
stage, and after stripping the lugger of every-
thing removable they set it afire.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Murray cod are getting scarce
in the lower reaches of the river. The causes
are variously suggested, but locks get most
of the blame. Near the mouth, fishermen
say that a low river in 1925, with seawater
coming in, drove the cod far upstream, and
they can’t get back. Higher up, they say
that the natural spawning-grounds down-
stream arc no longer open. Again, locks have
made billabongs permanent, and the cod
are away back in the scrub, instead of in the
main stream for catching; on the other
hand, small fry get into backwashes through
sluice gates, and there perish miserably.
Anderson, for N.S.W., and Bruce, inspector
for S.A., agree that all locks ought to have
“fish-ways” to allow passage to and from
tne spawning grounds, and that all pumps
and sluices should be screened; but either
job is a big contract.
* * * *
“H.J.K.”: Old Dad Jorkins is inor-
dinately proud of his fowl run; and
nothing delights him more than to show
it off to egg-buyers. He is noted for his winter
layers, and, as I had heard that he gave
them some special treatment, I asked the
old chap for a few hints about winter-laying
Leghorns. But the old man was not giving
anything away, and wandered off on a disser-
tation about letting fowls fend for themselves.
“But,” I broke in, “don’t you give them any
special diet?” “Can’t say as I does,” he
answered cautiously, “ ’cept a spider now an’
again.” “Spiders !” I exclaimed —“surely
those fowls don’t digest poisonous insects?”
“Too right they do,” said my neighbor,
“an’ cobwebs, too! But,” he added, “I nearly
lost a prize Leghorn cockerel last year
through givin’ ’im too many cobwebs. ’E got
webbed feet an’ started swimmin’ with th’
ducks.”
:i: * ! S !
“F. J.C.” : The white-headed fish-eagle seems
to take his love affairs very seriously. On
investigating an awful noise in, the bush
the other day, I came upon a damsel, of the
species refereeing a fight to the finish be-
tween two of the opposite sex. She flew off
at my approach, but the combatants paid
no attention. Each had his talons firmly
embedded in the body of the other whilst
they slashed and tore with their beaks. Their
wings seemed to be disabled. The arena was
strewn with feathers, and what was left of
their white plumage was red with blood.
It seemed that the unpleasantness could only
end in the death of one or both, and the
victor, if any, would have made a sorry
husband, so I decided to end the affair with
a stick, and thus save the lives of innumerable
fish.
THE OLD MAIL-COACH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The curtain that hung like a sheet at the
back,
The canvas that covered the bags
For years have been flaying and flogging the
wind,
And wither in tatters and rags.
Each bolt in the body is rusty and loose;
The white-ants have tackled the floor,
The wheel-rims have rotted and fallen away,
And there’s not a hinge left on the door.
When westerlies whistle through window
and roof
It sways, as it swayed with the load
In the days when it carried her Majesty’s
mails,
And the wheels sang the song of the road,
Rhymed clockety-clock with musical knock,
A-blend with the jangle of gear,
While peals of the bugle rang out in the
dawn
A fanfarade welcome and clear.
The hooks on the swing-bars are worn to
a shred
Where traces bit deep with the strain,
When fine horses breasted the height of the
hill
Or smashed through the mud of the plain.
The lamp-glass is broken, the wick stiff and
dry—
On the road it was seldom alight;
A. Cobb and Co. man knew each inch of the
track,
And could see like a cat in the night.
Here’s the coach in which youth journeyed
joyously out
With songs for each mile of the track.
A smile at the thought of adventure ahead
Or a sigh for the home at his back.
How silent it swings while the westerly
sings!
A ghostly team plunges and strains,
And a phantom that’s resting a foot on the
brake
Is holding the whip and the reins.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
ę
fire should be damped down so that there
is more smoke than flame.
(1) What is the capacity of the fixed con-
denser in the Ford coil? (2) Method em-
ployed in calculating the amount of tji-
foil required for various values of fixed
condensers? (3) Boolcs dealing with the
subject ? —BO4.
(1) For model TANARUS, approximately 10 micro-
farads. (2) There’s no universal formula;
every case has to be _ calculated separately,
and that’s a mathematician’s job. (3) There
are works by Simmons, by Clements and by
Smith that can be recommended.
I have obtained , from land soon to be built
on, a number of Christmas bushes, mostly
suckers , having large roots attached. These
I have planted, and they seem to be
doing well. (1) Will they live? (2)
Best manure to use and when and how to
apply? (3) Do they require much water?
—llll.
(1) Yes, if taken from land close to where
they are to be planted. (2) Well-decayed
cow manure, applied by digging- in during
August. (3) No.
A plaster for the back of an open fire-
place that will stick and not crumble when
heated? —96s.
Plaster won’t do the job. Line the back
with fire-lumps or fire-bricks set in fire-clay,
reinforced with light strips of hoop-iron.
(1) Could a man make a living with a
fishing-launch working out of Sydney? (2)
What sort of a launch and gear could be
obtained for about £6OO? —1062.
(1) Inadvisable to try it unless you have
had experience. (2) A suitable launch and
gear could be bought for the money.
What does “the rising of the court” mean?
—1207.
It is a sentence imposed by courts of sum-
mary jurisdiction in cases where the offence
is trivial. The convicted person is sentenced
to imprisonment “until the rising of the
court,” which means that he is to be detained
in custody until the court adjourns for lunch
or, if the sentence is imposed in the after-
noon, till the end of the court’s day.
Method of extracting copper from its ore
by the wet process? —lo74.
The main wet method for treating oxidised
ore consists in leaching the ore with dilute
sulphuric acid and recovering the copper from
the solution by electrolysis or by precipitat-
ing with iron. In the case of sulphide ores
a preliminary roast is necessary to render
the copper soluble in acid.
(1) A woman died intestate and a bank
holds a balance in her current account. Can
her husband or children get the money? (2)
Without employing a solicitor how can a
person make a will that will be legal and will
ensure that relatives may claim, property
(such as above) without difficulty? —ll76.
(1) Legally the bank should hand the
money to the administrator of the estate,
but if the balance constitutes the whole of
the estate and it is desired to avoid the cost
of administration, the bank may be prepared
to hand over the money to the husband on
production of the certificate of the wife’s
death and take a joint receipt signed by him
and the children. It rests with the bank.
(2) Will forms are sold by nearly all
stationers and with them instructions, which
should be followed strictly. Such forms may
be used safely in the case of a simple dis-
position such as “all my real and personal
estate to my wife but beyond this it
is wise to consult a solicitor.
What is the liability of an employer in the
case of a contractor who was paid in full
but failed to pay his men’s wages? —ll69.
No liability. The wage-earners must sue
the contractor.
(1) In what circumstances may a news-
paper divulge the name of an anonymous
contributor or letter writer? (2) What
action could be taken by a contributor or
letter-writer whose name was divulged with-
out permission and contrary to the regula-
tions governing such divulgence? (3) What
is the exact legal and national status of an
Englishman born in England and resident in
Australia? (4) What is the legal definition
of an Australian, a definition which would
satisfy a. court of law in a case where it
was vitally necessary to arrive at exact
national status? (5) Is the Crimes Act a
bar to the commonly accepted notion that
a Britisher immigrating into the Common-
wealth is an Australian? —ll22.
(1) By order of a Court a newspaper may
be compelled to divulge the name. We know
of no law to prevent a newspaper divulging
what should ,be its secrets. In that respect
it is in the same position as any other citi-
zen—always, of course, assuming that it has
not held out a promise of secrecy. (2) By
an action for damage caused through the
name being divulged contrary to stipulation
or promise and not under the coercion of a
Court.- (3) He retains his status as a
British-born subject. (4) A British subject
born in Australia or an alien who becomes an
Australian by naturalisation. We cannot give
a definition warranted to satisfy a court of
law and covering all contingencies. (5) Fail
to see in what respect the Crimes Act of
any State would operate as suggested.
What are a N.S.W. solicitor’s charges for
cottage and land valued at
Stamp duty, £9; registration fee, 12s. 6d.
to £1 17s. 6d.; search fee, 2s. 6d.; rate in-
quiry, 2s. 7d. to ss. 2d.; solicitor’s fee, under
R.P. Act, £7 Bs. 7d. to £9 95.; old title, £l3
4s. Id. to £l6 16s.
The brick work of my laundry copper is
cracked in three places. How can it be re-
built SO' that it will not crack again? —loo3.
Rebuild in the usual way, adding about
5 per cent. Portland cement to the mortar.
Reinforce the brick-work by inserting strips
of galyanised hoop-iron, 18 gauge, between
the brick courses, turned down on face of
brickwork about lin.
Can _ the icords “all right” he correctly
abbreviated into “alright”? —l2l3.
No. The usage is not sanctioned by the
best authorities.
How can I preserve praicns for bait? —
1115.
Dissolve one heaped teaspoon of salt mixed
with three teaspoons of brown sugar in
a cup of water. Remove the heads from
two quarts of prawns, and place in this
solution in a fruit-preserving jar fitted with
a rubber ring. Prawns treated thus keep
for a considerable time and retain their
efficiency as bait.
What arrangements would have to be
made for the collection of a war pension in
the case of an ex-soldier going to Buenos
Ayres ? —1073.
It is necessary for a Avar-pensioner going
overseas to call at the office of the Repatria-
tion Department in which State the pension
is being collected to arrange for having the
pension transferred. Pension payments
would be made available at Buenos Ayres by
a fortnightly draft from the Deputy Com-
missioner of Pensions in London.
(1) Is sandalwood, sometimes called
“ budda ,” which is found hi N.S.W., especially
. in the Lachlan and Bogan country, of the
some species as the Q’land and W.A. timber?
(2) What is its value? —986.
(1) “Budda” is Eremophila mitchelli, and
not a sandalwood. The true sandalwood be-
longs to species of Sant alum and Fusanus
of the N. O. Santalaceae. (2) “Budda” is
used for fencing in western N.S.W. The
pulling of sandalwood is prohibited in N.S.W.
on account of its value as a fodder tree.
Further information could be got from Con-
servators of Forests in W.A. and S.A., from
which States it is exported to China.
(1) What is strontium used for? (2)
Is there any local demand for it? —1008.
In making fireworks, for which the nitrate
is used, and in sugar manufacture, in which
the hydroxide is applied; also in the manu-
facture of glass and medicines. As local
sugar companies do not use it the Australian
demand is small.
(1) What income could one expect form
buffalo hunting in the Northern Territory?
Is any experience necessary? (2) Would it
be advisable to proceed to N.T. with a view
to obtaining employment there? —555.
(1) A good income might be made from
buffalo shooting, but would depend on the
person’s experience, the grounds available for
shooting, and the market. Experience is essen-
tial. A man must be a good horseman, and
have trained horses and experienced assist-
ants. He must know all about treat-
ment of hides. Shooting grounds are scarce,
and the present ones arq well served by the
regular shooters. Most of the work is done
by contract shooters. The market has
dropped considerably during the last year, due
partly to over-production and partly to the
depression in the hide market. (2) It would
be inadvisable to go to the Territory ex-
pressly for the purpose of engaging in buf-
falo shooting, but there is almost always a
job available for a good stockman on the
large N.T. station's.
(1) Should a person be forced to go insol-
vent, are there any expenses? If so, suppos-
ing a person has nothing, what is his posi-
tion? (2) If there are creditors in two
States, say N.S.W. and Vic., and the bank-
rupt lived in one, what is the position in
regard to the creditors in the other State? —
1101.
(1) Yes, affidavits have to be sworn, and
a small fee is charged for these. Also advts.
have to be inserted in newspapers. Other
costs depend on the value of the estate. See
the Chief Clerk in Bankruptcy, Supreme
Court Buildings, Elizabetli-street, Sydney.
(2) Both lots would claim as creditors in
the estate.
(1) What ruling is adopted by the princi-
pal Australasian clubs as to the recapitula-
tion of calls in playing solo whist? (2) Is
“American Iloyle” generally accepted as the
world-wide authority on the game? If not,
who is? (3 ) Is there a universal code, or is
it customary for each club to modify its
rules? (4) Is France the country in which
solo whist originated? If not, where ? —lo43.
(1) There is no fixed ruling on any card
game as far as Australasian clubs are con-
cerned. The rules governing calls roughly,
are: that no player who has passed
can make an independent call or proposition ;
that only the eldest hand can accept a pro-
position" after having once passed; that a
superior call always annuls and supersedes
a call of inferior value ; that a player, having
once made a call, may increase it to anything
up to the supreme call. (2) The accepted
authority on most card games in the British
Dominions is the British “Hoyle.” (3) There
is no universal code, and nearly every coterie
of players has its “local” rules, as with
many other card-games. (4) No record.
(1) Can a person under 21 who is not a
parent vote at meetings of parents' and
citizens’ associations in N.S.W.? (2) Has
the president of such associations the right
to exercise an ordinary vote and a casting
vote? —1029.
(1) The Education Department’s interpre-
tation of the “suggested rules” issued for the
guidance of parents and citizens’ associations
is that apart from parents who may be under
21 membership is restricted to adults. (2)
Yes, unless specially debarred by the rules of
an association.
lloio can I polish the mica in the side-
curtains on my car? The surface has patches,
in which the transparency is impaired. —loßs.
It is practically impossible to restore trans-
parency. If the disfigurement is very bad
have the windows renewed. Otherwise, clean
with a flannel dipped in raw linseed oil
and polish off with methylated spirits on a
silk cloth.
(1) llow can I store lemons and grape-
fruit ? —846.
Lemons should be closely clipped during
dry weather and handled with care. Clip
the fruit about every six weeks when it
reaches a size of 2fin. in diameter, irre-
spective of color. Green fruit will keep
much longer than yellow, and should be
separately packed for storing. Place the
fruit in paper-lined boxes and store in a
cool regular temperature. Grapefruit should
be picked when just mature and treated
similarly to lemons. Green lemons may
keep up to six months for home consump-
tion ; yellow lemons, perhaps a couple of
months; grapefruit, four to six months. As
the weather becomes warmer access of air
should be restricted, or the rinds will wither
and become hard.
Does Anybody Know?
Meanings of following abo. words: Tooley-
buc, Kyalile, Wakool, Ivoolonong, Yungera,
Coomaroop, and Natya? All are Vie. place
names.—973.
Brief Answers.
Texas: (1) Yes, if you have sufficient evi-
dence of the oral agreement. (2) Even if admitted
they would only supplement your own evidence, not
corroborate it. (3) You could claim as a creditor
in the estate, but there, again, the question of
proof would arise C.E.8.: Freight on motor-cars
is charged according to cubic measure. In the
case of an average-sized touring car the freight
would be about £10; and landing charges about
Bs. Full information can be secured at any of the
shipping offices in Wellington running services to
Sydney E.S.Y.: Try Federal Pastoral Shearing Cos.,
245 George-street; Graziers’ Co-operative Shearing
Cos., Ltd., 23 Macquarie-place; Merriwa Contract
Cos., Ltd., 255 a George-street; R. A. Rooney and
Cos., Ltd., 8 Spring-street; and Rumble and Nash,
12 O’Connell-street—all Sydney... .L.P.: The im-
portation of Angora rabbits into Australia is pro-
hibited C.C.C.; Rub with a flannel dipped in
raw linseed oil and clean off with methylated spirits.
Finish with a silk cloth D. 8.; Fred Hagen, 63
Hunter-street,' Sydney... .A.D.D.: (1) Get in touch
with any of the leading piano firms. (2) Yes. Full
repairs and repolishing would take from three weeks
to one month and the work could not be satis-
factorily carried out in the ordinary home. (3)
Complete repairs to action, keyframe and keys,
together with thorough repolishing, would cost
approximately, with carriages, £35 G.D.: (1)
to (6) See reply to No. 959, Service Page (B.
10/7/’29). (7) For permanent farmhands carrying
out such work, 30s. per cent.; for casuals, 50s.
per cent... .A.8.C.: “Cocktails,” by Roberts (price
3S. 6d.), Angus and Robertson, Sydney... .W.D.D.:
Neither ticket drew a prize... .R.P.: See reply
to 301 (B. 19/6/’29) W.P-J.; (1) Search-
ing. (2) A. Archbold, care Ruston and Hornsby
(Aust.) Pty,, Ltd., 642 Jones-street, Sydney, is the
agent for Ransomes, Sims and Jeffries, Ltd N. 1.:
We have asked Frank Hambridge, of Sydney, to get
in touch with you. Give him the information that
he asks for and he will guide you... .A. 5.1.: (1)
One pound on application, £2 on acceptance of
complete specification and £5 for preparation of
letters patent for sealing. Forms from Department
of Patents, 581 Bourke-street, Melbourne. (2) Try
Melbourne seedsmen and retailers of garden imple-
ments. .. .R. 8.: See article with diagrams in the
“Australian Encyclopaedia” (Vol. 11, page 440),
which you should be able to consult at the Brisbane
Public Library. The various State agricultural
departments issue pamphlets on the subject....
V.G.L.: (1) Sandalwood is largely in demand
for religious and other purposes in China. An
oil is distilled from the wood. (2) and (3)
Write W.A. Sandalwood Co-operative Cos., Ltd.,
Box 61, G.P.0., Perth; or Conservator of Forests,
Perth. (4) The N.S.W. sandalwood is believed to
be the same as that in S.A. and Q’land. (5) Not
permitted on N.S.W. Crown Lands... .N.M.1.:
“The Feeding of Farm Animals,” by Todd;
“Foods and Feeding,” by Henry and Morrison; and
“The Pig Industry,” by Archer. The last-named is
issued by the Vic. Department of Agriculture and
would be best for your purposes... .N.A.1.; There
are several issues of the 6d. blue South Australia,
value ranging from a few pence to £2. If you
send the stamp (together with a stamped addressed
envelope) to Fred Hagen, 63 Hunter-street, Sydney,
he will give you a valuation A.R.W.: (1) Cess-
nock, Hetton, Wallsend, Invincible. (2) Position
too obscure for the present, and don’t advise invest-
ment. .. .T.H.P.: W. J. Baker, 3 Hunter-street,
Sydney, stocks them. .. .A.N.L.: Address it to Dr.
Heinz Landmann, c/o Berliner Morgen Zeitung,
Berlin, Germany, and endorse it “Please forward”....
5.8. H.: “Money Writes,” by Upton Sinclair, was
published by A. and C. Boni, 66 Fifth-avenue, New
York, U.S.A J.T.: There is not sufficient in the
facts stated upon which to ground legal proceed-
ings with any hope of success... .F.R.: Yes. It
works out a decimal point better than the American
performance. The latter was done with a follow-
ing wind, and that cuts it out as a record....
R. J.: Information not available in Sydney. You
will have to write to the Department of Agriculture,
Washington, U.S.A S.G.F.: The essential treat-
ment is frequent washing of the scalp. Use soap
spirit and wash the soap spirit out thoroughly with
two or three fresh washings. If this doesn’t clear
it, let us know.... T.A.C.: If the conditions are
such as to menace or affect the health of yourself
and family, a public health authority might inter-
vene. Call at the Town Hall, Sydney, and interview
the Health Officer... .J.M.D.: Get in touch with the
Japan Cotton and Trading Cos., 30 Grosvenor-street;
or F. Kanematsu, Ltd., 8 O’Connell-street —both
Sydney... .W.A.8.: Write D. Hardy and Sons, Ltd.,
461 Glebe-road, Glebe, Sydney; and James Moore and
Sons Pty., Ltd., Box 869 J., G.P.0., Melbourne....
W.K.1.: The meanings of the only four recorded are:
“Piangil” (fish), “bungunyah” (home by billabong),
“poon-boon” (heron or bittern), “nyah” (see)....
L. 0.: L. E. Simon, Secretary Northern Yorke’s
Peninsula Bureau Field Trial Society, Bute, S.A.,
will be able to give you all the information you
require.... F.A.L.: From Elliott Bros., O’Connell-
street, Sydney. Price 4s. per quart... .D.R.G.: Guns
of English manufacture are admitted free of duty.
. ...D.A.0.: (1) No sales for months; last, 21s.
Present seller, 235.; no buyer. (2) Only 20s. (3)
Can see only very moderate profits ahead C. 8.8.:
(1) Will answer later. (2) 160,663. See “Aus-
tralian Encyclopaedia,” vol. i, page 297. (3) The
population of Australia at 1850 was 405,356; at
1860 it was 1,145,585 T.C.: The Majestic. She
is 56,621 tons register and 915 ft. 10ng... .P.W.: (1)
Write Brisbane Golf Club, Brisbane. (2) The plural,
according to standard authorities, is “tablespoonfuls,”
“cupfuls,” not “tablespoonsful” or “cupsful.” Modern
usage, however, tends to eliminate the suffix “ful”
as unnecessary—that is why the Woman's Mirror
for instance, always says “one tablespoon butter,
two tablespoons flour” M. 8.; Macaulay’s frequent
use of the phrase “which, as any schoolboy would
know,” has led to his being credited with its origin.
It is to be found, however, with slight differences
of wording, in the works of many earlier authors.
Burton, in his “Anatomy of Melancholy,” writes
“Every schoolboy hath that famous testament of
Grunnius Corocotta Porcellus at his fingers’ ends.”
Dean Swift made use of a similar phrase....
J.C.: Sir William Arbuthnot Lane is consulting
surgeon to Guy’s Hospital and to the Hospital for
Sick Children, both of London. He is president of
the New Health Society. The publications referred
to can be obtained from the secretary of that society
at Allhusen House, 39 Bedford-square, London,
W.C.I. Sir William’s private address is 21 Caven-
dish-square, London, W.l (Many others mailed.)


'
■
-
HI
m i
t !1. . ! . .
amammr
” :
mm
a i
■
IhEi
* - vs fgK* s***♦■*< **« %
fi #$ * '#ir%
•*■ " -»*»•»«»»•••* " «■»
t*
■
WHERE RELIABILITY IS ESSENTIAL,
ENGINEERS SPECIFY TUDOR
Part of a Tudor Battery consisting of 300 cells, having a capacity of 1 7,000 ampere hours at
the ten-hour rate, recently installed in the Clarence Street Sub-station of the Sydney
Municipal Council.
This is the fourth large Tudor Battery to be installed by the Sydney Municipal Council in
their sub-stations. The batteries at the new Bunnerong Power Station are also TUDOR.
The same rugged strength and reliability is built into
Tudor Batteries for Country House and Farm Lighting.
TUDOR BATTERIES are supplied exclusively
with
DELCO-CIGHT
plants by
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Sydney.
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Melbourne.
Messrs. Warburton, Franki, Ltd., Brisbane.
Messrs. Parsons & Robertson, Ltd., Adelaide.
plants by
Messrs. Dangar, Gedye, Ltd., Sydney.
Messrs. Malloch Bros., Perth.
For each of the above plants a special exclusive
type of TUDOR BATTERY is supplied,
specially designed to meet the individual
requirements of the plants.
TUDOR ACCUMULATORS
Australasian Office:
THE TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD. (LONDON),
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney!
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
ě
Promptness—The first essential of Assurance.
P. & C. take pride in acting quickly. Every claim has immediate
attention. This is only one of the many advantages that com-
mend P. &C. Assurance to the man on the land. Policies car-
ried on during times of stress —money set aside each year for loans to
members. P. &C. is linked up with the most influential Co-operative
bodies, and clients’ interests are closely guarded. Here are plain
facts for commonsense men—P. & C. Assurance is the kind you need
—investigate the policies right away. Send for literature.
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director: H. Fell
PRODUCERS V CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA
ll- -ITO CASTLE REA q M ST. SYDNEY cv=
THE
Farmers 8 Settlers
Co-operative Insurance
Co, of Australia, Ltd,
AUTHORISED CAPITAL,
£250,000
Fire, Accident, Marine, Motor-car,
Workers’ Compensation, Growing
Crops, Stacks, Wool, Fencing.
SPECIALISING IN INSURANCE
FOR THE MAN ON THE LAND
ACTIVE AGENTS REQUIRED
WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
N.S.W. Office:
Wingelo House, Angel Place, Sydney
F. D. POWELL, Manager.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSIR
[?] PARK & CATLEREAGH [?] SYDNEY
MORE PRIZES FOR FARMERS.
In order to encourage farmers to pass
on to others the fruits of their observa-
tion and experience, “The Bulletin” will
give three prizes for the most helpful
contributions during the six months to
Dec. 31 next.
Points will be awarded for every con-
tribution submitted, if thought worthy and
whether printed or not, and two prizes—
the first of £25 and the second of £10 —
will be given to the winners of most
points.
A special prize of £5 will be given for
the best individual contribution.
Only contributions that are of practical
value to men on the land are asked for;
literary merit is not taken into account, so
long as the meaning is expressed plainly.
The prizes are in addition to the ordi-
nary payments made for all “Bulletin”
contributions.
*
THE USE OF SALT.
“Hatter”: It is considered that only one
crop benefits from the use of salt as manure,
and that is the mangold, which in its wild
state thrives upon the seashore. With,; farm-
yard manure, which is preferable to artificials
for mangolds, about 6cwt. salt to the
acre has been found to improve the yield by
23 per cent. Where artificials only are used a
complete manure, satisfactory on heavy soils,
is 3|cwt. super., scwt. nitrate of soda and
9cwt. of kainit. In this case the kainit
takes the place of salt and any further
application is ineffective.
On other roots, such as potatoes and
swedes, salt is distinctly injurious, and con-
tinued application, or a flooding by sea-watex 1 ,
usually injures the soil texture by rendering
it leathery and hard.
A certain quantity of salt is essential to
the health of all animals, aiding digestion,
and if the requisite amount is not present in
the rations the deficiency should be made
good. Cultivated grasses, though they con-
tain a higher percentage of all other minerals
than hill pastures do, are more deficient in
salt.
In the TI.S.A. the practice of feeding salt to
all animals is customary, and experiments
prove the advantage. For instance, on the
lowa experimental station, 28 flocks of sheep
were under observation for over seven years.
The amount of salt supplied in the feed was
estimated at a little under per day.
Ewes receiving no added salt made an average
daily gain of 0.2781 b. and gave lambs averag-
ing 8.91 b. at birth. Ewes receiving an extra
ioz. per day made a daily gain of 0.3181 b.
and their lambs averaged 10.31 b. at birth.
Small quantities of salt are no doubt carried
by the wind from tin' sea inland, which may
account for the marked improvement stock
often show when first changed to coastal
pastures.
A few pounds of salt scattered over each
load of grass hay improves the flavor, tends
to. decrease mould and adds a necessary con-
stituent to the feed in a convenient way.
The practice coming into favor now in
Europe is to leave the grass untouched in
the swathe till three-quarters dry, when it is
carted and stacked. By adding lib. of salt
to every 50lb. of fodder it is claimed that
all danger of excessive heating or mould is
prevented. The great advantage of this
method is the saving in labor costs, as the
hay has only to be mown and stacked.
POTASSIC FERTILISING.
“L.N.”: “R.D.A.’’ (B. 19/6/’29) suggests
that I ignore field practice in my advocacy
of muriate of potash. I am prepared to
fixrnisli a list of 20 leading growers, recog-
nised as such in their respective localities,
in Australia and Maoriland, who are, and
have for years been, using the muriate form
in their fields and orchards. This they are
doing because they find it as effective as
sulphate, and more economical. The
considerably greater (and constantly grow-
ing) annual consumption of the chloride
form may be accepted as proving that
practice is dominating obsolete theory.
Investigation has been seriously entered upon
only in quite recent yeai's.
. “R.D.A.” accuses me of distorting the
views of W. C. Grasby on the subject. I
referred the matter to Mr. Grasby and asked
if I might reply on his authority that my
previous quotation correctly reflected his
views, and received this telegraphic response:
“Yes. After careful manuring and cooking-
tests I more than ever doubt that sulphate
gives appreciably better quality potatoes.”
If “R.D.A” could get into touch with such
of his other authorities as are still living,
I think he would find their views modified,
if not reversed.
“R.D.A.” is signally in error in saying that
“in America the guarantee for both muriate
and sulphate is 48 per cent. —25 per cent.
1v20.” Neither muriate* nor sulphate of 25
per cent. K2O is offered for sale in any
country.
“R.D.A.” remarks that my figures, regard-
ing sugar-cane (which related to a superior
tonnage production by the muriate) do not
touch the most important aspect, the quality
of the sugar so produced. Here then, are
some which do. For several years prior
to 1924 the Bureau of Sugar Experiment
Stations (Q.) conducted trials at Bunda-
berg and Mackay expressly designed to deter-
mine whether any advantage followed the
use of the dearer sulphate in respect to the
purity and sugar content of the juices of
the cane. In order to eliminate extraneous
influence, potash in the two forms was the
sole fertiliser used, and up to 2821 b. per acre
annually of the muriate and 3001 b. of the
sulphate (the heavier sulphate dressing being
necessary to compensate for its lesser pot-
assic value) was applied to plant-cane and
the following ratoons. The annual report of
the bureau for 1923 detailed and commented
on results as under: “Experiments testing
the action of muriate of potash and sulphate
of potash on cane juices : Quotient of purity
in three muriate of potash plots, 94.8; com-
mercial cane-sugar in three muriate of pot-
ash plots, 14.85; quotient of purity in three
sulphate of potash plots, 94.5; commercial
cane-sugar in three sulphate of potash plots.
14.73. It is apparent, therefore, that .muri-
ate of potash does not exercise any prejudi-
cial effect on the purities or sugar content
of ,cane-juices, and these results are borne
out at the Mackay station.” The report of
the bureau for the following year mentioned
that the continuation of the trial had con-
firmed this deduction.
The bureau is at present, arranging 70
general manurial trials on private holdings
in the various sugar-cane districts of Queens-
land, and is employing the muriate form of
potash throughout.
In Cuba, Fiji, South Africa —indeed where-
ever potash is employed in sugar-cane pro-
duction—the muriate is the form generally
used as the direct result of field experiments.
“R.D.A.” makes strange recommendations
in respect to the application of muriate —-
“six months before cropping.” That is theory
simple and impure, for it is not and never
has been practised in any quarter of the
globe.
FOWLS FOR WIIEAT-FARMERS.
“Bufforp”: After harvest in England, port-
able or colony houses are spread over the
fields, for fowls and other domestic birds, to
ensure that no grain is lost. Can’t we do
the same in Australia? There is a great
market for turkeys and table poultry, both
internally and overseas, and poultry-rearing
is a very profitable way of using the small
and broken wheat on the farm.
_ A colony house is made on a firm founda-
tion, - to allow the hitching of a horse to
it. Many I have seen were built on to bush
timber, and had a strong hook for haulage.
The houses need not be high—from 4ft. to
sft., made of weatherboards (pine for light-
ness) with wire-netting fronts and a good
strong door to enable locking up if foxes are
about. Floor the house, and the birds can be
locked in at night and moved along next day,
prior to liberation. A kerosene-tin of water
on the shady side, and a trip along the
houses with a cart, or slide, witli water and
a little feed daily, will keep hundreds of
birds going. Some prefer to have a dry
mash hopper in the house as well, with a
supply of food, and a youngster can ride
round the lot on, a pony or bike each night
and morning to shut and open the houses.
The birds will spread out all over the
paddocks in the day.
The system is for rearing and growing
fowls for market, not an egg proposition.
But for the grain-farmer the job offers no
obstacles if he rears for market. There is
no cleaning out of houses—just hitch the
prad or the tractor on and shift the whole
concern, and all the fallen grain, caterpillars,
grubs and so forth will be turned into profit’.
Big hatcheries turn out chicks by the thou-
sand at rates from £3 a hundred, and beyond
a little brooding at the homestead, there need
not be much trouble taken. Turkeys are
better hatched on the farm, and so are guinea
fowls. On a wheat farm near Goulburn
(N.S.W ) they got so full up of indifferent
prices that they turned all their wheat into
fowls. They have one of the best flocks
out, grist their own offal, use all the wheat
grown, and make a better do than wheat-
growers or suburban poultry-farmers.
CRAWLER v. WHEELED TRACTORS.
“Involute”: “Yeoman” (B. 5/6/’29)
claims that the crawler tractor is more suit-
able to Australia than the wheeled type.
He may be right, but he is against general
opinion, as the proportion of crawlers of all
types in use in Australia is approximately
7 per cent., while one popular make of
wheeled tractor represents 40 p.c. of the
total.
In N.S.W. there are 6400 tractors on
farms and about 600 on road and industrial
work. Most crawler tractors are on this
latter work, only a few being used for farm-
ing, timber-getting, tank-sinking and gen-
eral excavating.
In over 10 years of tractor experience I
have not met many owners of wheel-type
tractors who complained of their unsuit-
ability. They are used for a vast variety
of jobs and in some cases ingenuity is
shown by their owners in overcoming dif-
ficulties. Many farmers consider that if the
ground is too wet for a wheeled tractor to
operate it is not in a condition to turn a
proper furrow or to give good cultivation
results.
Wheeled tractors are popular because they
are cheap to buy and maintain; they have
sufficient draw-bar pull to suit most reauire-
ments, and where heavy mud conditions are
met they can be fitted with suitable wheel-
grips'. On light sandy and friable soils
the same grips are efficient, as the soil
resistance is low.
Only in South xYustralia is the crawler
type predominant, there chiefly in the Gulf
wheat country, which is very light and
drifty. “Yeoman’s” figures are fair, but
many of them will be halved if recent de-
velopments in the fuel and lubrication fields
turn out successfully in practice.
TO CLEAN SUPER. BAGS.
“Curlew” : Super, bags, rapidly deteriorate
unless something is done to counteract the
effects of the sulphuric acid on the jute
fibres. Soaking the bags in a solution of
washing soda—lolb. to 50 gallons of water
—is often recommended; but lime-water is
better. Sulphuric acid will combine with the
lime to form sulphate of lime (gypsum),
which is harmless to the bags and almost
insoluble. A wash afterwards in clean water
should remove practically all the gypsum
and leave the bags almost as good as new
and suitable for most purposes.
GRANITE SOILS.
“Ruffy”: “Alf Alpha” (B. 26/6/’29) says
the granite soils of Vic. are pobr in every-
thing except sand. That is news indeed.
Granite soils are particularly rich in potash,
oxide of iron and magnesia, contain a fair
amount of lime, but are deficient in phos-
phoric acid.
Granite is composed of silica (sand), fel-
spar and mica. Orthoclase, or potash felspar,
contains nearly 17 per cent, of potash. Mica,
a group of minerals, aluminous silicates with
potash (soda), or with magnesia and ferrous
oxide, gives 6 to 10 per cent, of potash,
while lime may be present in mica 1 per
cent, to 6 per cent. It is estimated that
of the solid crust of the earth the felspars
constitute 48 per cent., quartz 35 and mica 8.
Granite soils are essentially clay soils,
caused by the decomposition of the felspar,
and such clays may carry as much as 7
per cent, of potash—which is one reason why
plant diseases are less prevalent than in
lighter soils. It is a waste of money apply-
ing potash on granite soils; already the soil
has abundance.
BUYING A HORSE.
“Koolonga” :• If the hack you are thinking
of buying has passed his health tests get
him out of his stable and look him over.
First, is he up to your weight? If he is
only 14 hands and .you turn the scale at
14 stone he can’t do the job. See that the
depth through his heart —from the withers to
where the girth fits under the belly—is equal
to or more than the distance from his elbow
to his shoe. The further back the hollow
where the girth fits the better will he carry
the saddle. Look at his ribs. You must
avoid a horse that looks like a drain-pipe,
and if there is more than a four-fingers’
width between the back rib and the hip-
bone he is likely to be slack in the back,
weak of loins and expensive to keep in con-
dition. See that he has sound feet and a
clean foreleg, without lumps or bumps about
the joints; flat bone is preferable to round.
If he has had a “big knee” through hitting
a fence while jumping that’s a tenner off
his value. Run your thumb and fingers down
the back of his leg and see that the tendon
is straight, not bowed. Now get somebody
to hold up a forefoot while you fool around
his hind legs and tail—he may try to kick
you otherwise. Feel just below each hock
for an enlargement in the middle of the
bone; that is called curb. It is best to
leave the hunt for spavins and thoroughpins
until you have nearly decided to buy the
horse and taken him to a vet., for the
experienced man is more likely to find them.
Lift the horse’s tail, and if there is a sunken
cavity underneath he is probably split right
up behind. That means bad doing, and no
staying power.
You will have been told his age and looked
at his teeth. Markings are easily faked, and
can be misleading without faking. A corn-
fed horse’s teeth will be different from those
of a grass-bred and -fed nag of the same
age. Have the saddle, put on, and see it put
on. Don’t let him be taken out of sight and
brought back with a rider up. If he has
a weak back the first few strides after beiug
mounted will be made with dragging hind
legs. See him ridden to and from his stable,
and—if you’re buying him as a utility hack
—have him put at a few small fences and
carefully watch his action. Mount him your-
self after a while, and be careful to keep
your toe out of a strange horse’s belly when
swinging up to the saddle. Sometimes the
effect of a little carelessness is rather like
an earthquake. Put him through his paces
gently, turning him, riding him away from
liis stable, making him stand and —if you can
jump a horse —put him at a small fence
or two. As to height, the war proved that
a horse of about 15.2 or 15.3 hands could
kill a tall horse for work and live on a lot
less forage ; added to which there is not so far
to fall.
BUILDING A SHED.
“Bert the Carpenter” : Any man who can
use his hands and his head can build a cor-
rugated-iron farm shed. First draw a plan
of the proposed structure, making sure that
the roof has a fall of not less than one foot
iii ten, and specify sheets of corrugated-iron
Bft. or less in length wherever possible—you
pay extra for long sheets. Purlins (the
pieces laid over the rafters to which the iron
is nailed) should never be more than 4ft.
apart, and if the space between the rafters
is more than 6ft. use 4in. by 3in. purlins
in place of the usual 3in. by 2in. Don’t
space your rafters more than 10ft. apart.
Don’t put a forest of posts inside the shed
to support the roof. It’s only a waste of
material.
Haying made out y9ur list of material,
send it along to the timber-mill with your
plan, asking them to check the quantities
required. It costs nothing extra, for all
timber-mills keep a trained man for this job,
and it may save you a vexatious delay.
There’s always a chance you’ve made a mis-
calculation.
In ordering iron, remember that in prac-
tice a 2ft. sheet covers less than 2ft., so order
an extra sheet in every 24 to allow for
overlap. In nailing up iron, lay the first
sheet with the brand out, the next one with
the brand in, then a brand out and so on
alternately. This enables you to give a flute-
and-a-half lap at the sides, making the joints
waterproof. Give all roof-iron a lap-over
of at least 6in. on the ends.
By means of tape-measure, spirit-level and
plumb-line keep your job square and plumb
from the start. To lay out the shed square,
measure 16ft. from a corner along the side;
from one end stretch a 12ft. wire and from
the other end a 20ft. wire; when the two
meet you will have a true rectangle. The
job must be kept true to within a quarter
of an inch, otherwise you’ll be in trouble
when you come to put on the iron.
FENCING PROBLEMS.
“D.J.H.” : Many a newchum —and some
old hands too —when fencing with barbed-
wire try to strain the .barb itself. If you
carry a short length of plain wire and make
a “tail” for each strain, you’ll get a tighter
pull, an easier, tie round the straining post,
and save your hands, time and temper. In
short lengths, where a strain is not easy,
such as in between gates, in front of houses,
etc., a coil of woven wire is worth while.
Many good makes are on the market now,
and all you’ve got to do is to staple it to
the posts. The best quality is as rigid as
you like, and there is no danger of broken
or sprung wires. For temporary fences it
is up and doing duty before you’d have one
strand of ordinary wire strained.
“Minthall”: Most landholders now are
coming to realise that the all-metal fence
is by far the cheapest and best in the long
run. Bad fences are a curse on any farm,
and there’s no need to suffer them when
steel posts are cheaper than wood, and
are proof against bush-fires and white-ants.
The steel posts can be cut to any size you
want, bored at any spacing needed had
either plain or galvanised, and cost from
Is. 6d. to 3s. each. They are light and
strong and can be run up by one man very
much quicker than wooden posts. Many
(Continued on page 31.)


/
mmm
m
5^
I
mgftffim vx-awoowcw
.. vx^Tx-iv-.^.
1 A-::,:- -•:^:
WKmimi
p#'"
MU
ZMW-
W
iBiMMIBHMI
xx : x': : x : : : x : x': : :XxX:X:x:X: :: X:' : xx xxxx'xx. x&i&tf'’
V
THROUGH FROZEN SKIES AND UNDER TROPIC SUNS
The Avro 10 is the English version of the Fokker F7-3M
and is the finest possible plane for difficult work in ex-
treme climates. It is equipped with three 200 h.p. Arm-
strong-Siddeley engines and is entirely British built to
the Air Ministry’s standard of air worthiness and safety.
This type is used by the Dutch, Swiss. Italian and
Canadian air lines and has now been selected for
passenger and freight traffic by Australian National
Airways Ltd. who have ordered four Avro 10’s for
their new service between Brisbane and Sydney.
AVRO lO
Cruising speed 100 m.p.h. Range from 400 miles upward. Payload up to 1800 lbs.
Specification and full particu'ars both of the above plane and of the Avro 5
(seating pilot ard 4 passengers) will be supplied on application. Those interested
should write also for special catalogue of the famous 'Avian ’ light Aeroplane.
A. V. ROE
CO. LTD., 166 PICCADILLY, LONDON, ENGLAND. Works : MANCHESTER, AND HAMB
LE, SOUTHAMPTON.


o
k«5
A*
f'2
-s#<
$
*
c
*
%
A
WHATFINGERTIP CONTROL
MEANS IN SAFETY
AND CONVENIENCE
w
THE new Superior Whippet brings you the important advantage of
“Finger-tip Control.” A single button, located in the centre of
the steering-wheel, controls all functions of starting the engine,
operating the lights and sounding the horn.
“Finger-tip Control” eliminates all troublesome foot-fumbling for a
starting-button on the toeboard, and obviates leaning forward to reach
a light switch on the dash. Aside from its convenience, this funda-
mental improvement is also an important safety factor. You can
ŵ
at all times keep your eyes on the road, and you
can keep your foot always on the brake when
starting or re-starting on a hill.
Your nearest Willys-Overland dealer will
gladly arrange a demonstration of the new
Superior Whippet.
✓
e new sup et lot,
WHIPPET
VfWWfNSW*
>VS
! sj C C\
<.vs» SJ3C%
Overland Sydney, Limited,
173 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Overland South Australia, Limited,
62-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
Overland (Vic.) Pty., Limited,
117-21 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
E. G. Eager & Son, Limited,
Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane.
Adams Motors, Limited,
442 Murray Street, Perth.
H. C. Heathorn & Co., Limited,
53-63 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
NEW SUPERIOR WHIPPET FOURS AND SIXES


w
The horseman’s
favourite
A supple boot that’s both comfort-
able and smart. . . .notable as well
for lightness as for durability. This
Abbey Riding Boot has a complete
inner lining of soft leather. There s
not one raised seam inside. It is
arched to fit the upper curve of the
instep, and stout, elastic ankle pieces
preserve the flexible, close fit. No
cramping of the foot muscles.
Order by Post
Narrow, medium and wide fittings are
available in all sizes. Specify width
as well as length, and ask, also, for
a supply of Abbey’s preservative
polish (6d. per tin).
TAN WILLOW CALF, 427-
BLACK BOX CALF, 37/6
Enlarged catalogue of men’s and women’s
footwear post free.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: “Abbey Boots,” Sydney.
FPLI33
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for tne original.
Meet Jack Wieneke!
ŵ
The first saddler
to make a really
good stock saddle
—a saddle that a
horse can roll on—
one you can ride in
all day without get-
ting tired. What is comfort,
real comfort, worth to you?
Face this important fact by writing
now for my book on “How to Ride
with Ease.” Post Free.
JACK WIENEKE
HIMSELF,
BRISBANE, Q.: 484 QUEEN ST.
SYDNEY: 371 GEORGE STREET,
C/o JOHN BRUSH,
ẁ
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8i? O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
mm
Martin Ditcher
Most useful farm implement
in Australia. Quickly saves
the cost, £35, in speed, effi-
ciency and wages. Ditches,
levels, irrigates, drains, re-
claims, builds and repairs
roads, etc.
J. B. WALLIS LTD.
Challis House, Martin Place, Sydney
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
168 Edward Street, Brisbane
T. T. Building, Light Street, Adelaide
Royal Arcade, Barrack Street, Perth
B.K.
PAY AS YOU GO BY CHEQUE
* / p
wJf-
1. It eliminates unwise spending.
2. It saves time and many steps in settling bills.
3. It gives prestige to your transactions.
4. It instils respect through your association with a reputable bank.
At this Bank you are allowed. Interest on your
minimum quarterly balance.
J&atik ofjlusfralia %
HEAD OFFICE. 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London
“KANGAROO”
WATER-COOLED SPRAY OUTFIT
ẃ
Four-wheeled tra n s-
port; oiled throughout
from the crankcase.
The magneto is the
very latest English
waterproof pattern.
The pump is very com-
pact ; the valves can
be got at by loosening
one nut. All parts
likely to be affected or
corroded by spray mix-
tures are of gunmetal.
All parts are standard-
ised, and replacements
can be forwarded with-
out delay. The Spray
vat holds 100 gallons.
When not in use for
spraying, the engine
can be disconnected
and used for numerous
small jobs (such as
pumping water, etc.),
around the house.
MANUFACTURED BY
D. & W. CHANDLER LTD.
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY, VICTORIA.
makes are specially fitted to catch wire-
netting for rabbit- and dog-proof fences, ana
with steel posts, wire and netting a man.
can put up a fence that will last him a
lifetime. ... ~A
“Bill R.”: To judge if a tree will yield
durable posts examine roots that have pro-
truded to the surface. If these snow no
signs of weathering, borers or dry rot,, the
split timber placed in the ground may be
expected to last. Otherwise it will prove
unserviceable. Posts should be split from
the back of the billets. Rails are better
split on the quarter. From the butt ot the
tree cut a chip two inches thick, and with
the axe test it back and quarter for splitting
qualities. You will thus learn whether the
tree is a good post-splitter or suitable only
for rails. A twisted or ringed appearance
of the bark and sapwood will indicate the
curly or cross-grained trees that cannot be
split.
SHEEP'S TEETH AS A GUIDE TO AGE.
“Mungallala” : Every sheepman knows the
rule for judging the age of sheep by their
teeth —2 teeth at 12 months, 4 at 2 years,
6 at 3 years, and S at 4 years, when they
are full-mouthed.
So far as merino sheep in Queensland are
concerned that rule is not quite correct,
though it may be in regard to other breeds
and other countries. It has certainly caused
many an argument and much dissatisfaction,
for graziers, dealers and stock-agents have
usually accepted it as correct. Many years
ago my statement in regard to the age of a
line of wethers was questioned, and the sheep
were turned down as being misrepresented by
the seller. I then studied the matter of
sheep’s teeth in relation to their ages, and
I noted that at the age of 1 year most of the
sheep showed 2 incisors; at If years 4; at 2-J
years 6; at 3f years 8;- and that at 4 years
all teeth were level.
I have since noticed in a booklet issued
by the Queensland Department of Agricul-
ture a statement by W. G. Brown, Govern-
ment sheep expert, that the first two or cen-
tral permanent teeth make their appearance
at from 12 to 15 months, that at. from IS to
24 months the second pair of permanent in-
cisors are up, at from 27 to 33 months. the
third pair are in use and at from 36 to 42
months the fourth and last pair are shown,
the sheep being full-mouthed at about four
years.
INBREEDING IN CATTLE.
“Rotom”: An example of the effects of
inbreeding in cattle is provided by Norfolk
Island. Since the descendants of the Bounty
refugees were placed there with a few head
of cattle, few additions from outside have
been made to the herd, and there is a disin-
clination amongst the islanders to alter any
existing conditions. A valuable bull intro-
duced by the Administration some years ago
was found dead at the foot of a cliff a
few days after being landed. It was sus-
pected that he had been pushed over.
There are now nearly 3000 milking cows
on the island —one for every three of the
population. Yet so poor is the milk yield
that many of the inhabitants are constantly
without that commodity, and the greater por-
tion of the butter used is imported from
Australia. The cattle all are miserably
attenuated weeds, and fat beef is a thing
unknown.
DUAL-PURPOSE DAIRY-CATTLE.
“Coolibah” : Some farming contributors have
been proffering very questionable advice in
recommending the crossing of dairy-breeds
to produce a good dual-purpose animal. If
a dairy-farmer has a well-bred Jersey herd,
I strongly advise him to keep them, and the
purer he keeps them the better. The Jersey
is a good cow of her kind, a butter producer,
but not usually a heavy milker, and valueless
for beef. If Jerseys are crossed with, say,
Ulawarra milking shorthorns or Red Rolls,
you may get a few phenomenal milk-pro-
ducers with the first cross, or you may not,
but you most certainly will wind up with an
indefinable mob of mongrels. The Freisian-
Jersey cross works out a little better, but
where the Freisians are well bred it is a
pity not to keep them pure bred.
The best dual-purpose cow for Australian
conditions is the Australian cow—the
I.M.S. She is not only the best dual-
purpose animal but the world’s best dairy-
cow. The I.M.S. figures consistently as a
winner of “ground-butter production” com-
petitions in all the leading shows of the
Eastern States. Should mammitis, age or
other causes render elimination from the
herd desirable, the I.M.S. is a good fattener,
and often dresses 6001 b. of best-quality beef.
I bred the heavy type of 1.M.5., generally
using dark roan bulls, for years, and the
steers, at three years old, were just as good
as Herefords and Devons bi’ed in the same
district. For a small farmer in touch with
the veal market the calves will realise top-
price when the Jersey offspring is unsale-
able.
The lamentable mongrel herds of East
Coast districts are mainly the result of
crossing Jerseys with other breeds.
Just to anticipate criticism. I’m quite
aware that the I.M.S. is an Ayrshire-Dur-
ham cross. But the crossing was done 10
bovine generations back by experts, and a
scientific system of selection and careful
breeding has evolved and fixed a type ideal
to the conditions of this country.
COTTON SEED MEAL.
“R.A.”: Cornmeal and bran, oft recom-
mended on this Page, are good for Jersey
cows during winter; but judging by results 'ob-
tained by dairy farmers in my part of Queens-
land, the addition of cotton-seed meal won-
derfully improves the ration. The feed is made
up of 31b. cornmeal, 21b. bran, 21b. cotton-
seed meal to each cow. Not more than 21b. of
cotton-seed meal should be fed daily, and
the best time to give it is during the last milk-
ing each day. Cotton-seed meal is obtainable
in all States, and farmers’ everywhere’ should
give it a trial. The fodder described should
be added, of course, to .whatever roughage is
available, corn fodder, lucerne hay. or chaff
of any description being satisfactory.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
A cure for “greasy heel” in horses? —1091.
A 5 per cent, solution of picric acid in
rectified spirits of wine applied with a soft
brush daily.
What’s the best, way to deal with borers in
almond-trees? —-1086.
Where possible, infested parts should be
cut away and burnt. It may be found pos-
sible to kill the borers by pushing a piece of
soft wire down the tunnels, or by pouring
a little kerosene into them.
(1) How can 1 transplant six-year-old
grape-vines? (2) My young Muscovy ducks
lose the power of their legs. Otherwise they
are very healthy. What can 1 do for them ■
917.
(1) Take out a good ball of soil with the
vine, and cut the vine back fairly hard. Even
then the vine will get a set-back. It would
probably be better to plant young vines or
cuttings instead. (2) Probably they are
short of water and get their feed before or
shortly after the water has been replenished.
Another probable cause is camping in damp
quarters. The remedies are obvious.
(1) A non-poisonous spray for fowl-
houses, perches, etc., consisting of lime and,
to be put on by means of a hand-spray? (2)
Cure for scaly legs? ,(3) Symptoms of
roup?, —losB. . .
(1) A lime wash is not effective in keep-
ing down vermin. The best spray for fowl-
houses is kerosene emulsion, which is made
bv dissolving lib. of soft soap in a gallon
of boiling water and then . adding slowly,
stirring briskly all the time, one gallon ot
kerosene. Stirring should continue for
several'minutes lifter the oil has been added.
This should then be added to nine gallons
of water, when it is ready for use. It is as
well to stir the mixture occasionally while
using. (2) Paint the legs with crude
petroleum, also called blue oil and wood-
preserving oil, but care,should be taken that
the oil does not contain arsenic, which is
sometimes put in for the treatment of white
ants. The perches should be painted with
the same oil. (3) There are three forms
of roup; catarrhal, diphtheric and canker.
The first commences w r ith cold in the nos-
trils. from which there is a discharge having
an offensive odor, and then spreads through
the nasal cavities to the eyes, which swell
up In the diphtheric form a slimy mucus
is found around the throat and larynx.
Canker is a cheesy substance, which may be
found in any part of the mouth or in the
larynx. Remedies are occasionally given in
the “Man on the Land” section.
(It J have a road or outlet (not sur-
veyed) through, my neighbor’s property that
Inis been used by myself and previous owners
of my farm, for the last 25 years. Can my
neighbor close that road against me when
he has a surveyed road enclosed in lieu of
same, which was not objected to? (2) Can
my neighbor put a barbed-wire entanglement
across such road, and in the case of acci-
dent have T any claim against him? —1212.
(1 and 2) As, apparently, the land is not
enclosed, and you and previous owners of
your farm have used the road without inter-
ruption for over 20 years, you would appear
to have acquired an easement over it ; that
is to say, a privilege which the owner of
one landed property has over the property
of another ; and if disturbed in the use of
the road can set up your prescriptive right.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“H.G.IL”: When burning-off logs, if they
are not too big, bore a hole through with
a 11 in. or 1-lin. auger. Scratch a hole
in the ground underneath, and put in a fire
stick. The hole acts as a chimney, and with
the usual cross-stick to help will make a
quicker job of the burning. The auger is
also useful when trees are hollow only part
way: bore a hole into the hollow and so make
a draught and start a fire.
“Wondeela”: When planting fruit trees
that arrive in a shrivelled condition, I have
found it a good plan to cut out both ends
of a kerosene-tin, place the walls over the
tree, and fill with chaff, short grass or any-
thing that will hold moisture and keep damp
• for a few days. I have had trees that were
three to five weeks on the road, and have
not lost one since I tried this plan.
“Lily-Beale”: Besides being a necessary
mineral constituent for all classes of animals,
lime corrects acidity in the stomach. It
also renders the curd portion of milk readily
digestible, particularly by young _ calves.
Lime water of the requisite strength is easily
made on the farm, and as water will only
dissolve a limited amount of lime there need
be no fear of making it too strong. Add a
bucketful (say, 201 b.) of lime to about 10
gallons of water in a wooden barrel, stir
well, and allow to settle. The clear liquid
resulting can be used, and then fresh water
added and stirred daily until all the soluble
lime has been dissolved. The lack of alka-
line flavor will indicate when this point has
been reached.
“Fred Rich” : Small stud flocks affected by
botfly maggots may be successfully treated by
smearing the nostrils tvith equal parts of tar
and grease, or, if available, tar and fish oil.
An effective ointment can also be made
from lib. beeswax and lpt. linseed oil,
melted together, with 2oz. resin and 4oz. car-
bolic stirred in as it cools. Narrow salt
troughs with the edges smeared with tar
will be found the most practical preventive
where large flocks are concerned. At the
first sign of the maggots being at work, the
paddock should be mustered and the sheep
treated, as the maggots, when mature, drop
to the ground and develop into the fly which
will cause further havoc amongst the flock.
“Fred Rich”: It’s no use dosing a
“sanded” horse with castor oil and bran
mash. The proper treatment is a drench of
salts and senna leaves —4oz. salts and half-
packet senna is the standard. After giving the
drench the horse should be placed in a yard
and watched until the drench commences to
operate. The animal should then be thrown
and repeatedly slapped on the stomach with
the flat of the hand. Thus the sand is
forced to leave the walls and mix with
the contents of the stomach. The horse
must be kept on its back until the obstruction
has passed through.


EXTRA HIGH GRADE
SMOI6INQ TOBfleeO
its
•uoJit
Unequalled
19 per 2oz Tin
GILT-EDGED SECURITY
“Silver Edge”
(jor tourers)
BRAKE
MOULDED LINING
(in sets ) for special
braking systems.
RAYBESTOS BELACO LTD.
LONDON.
FOR ALL
MOTORISTS.
/A\
1 % !i
Sss sss^
WON'l FAIL YOU!
“Gold Edge”
(heavy duty )
LINING
CLUTCH FACINGS
AND SEGMENTS.
Factory Representative:
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Melb.
ẅ
MAN
w
NEWS
ŵ
THE
“Gratwist”
Work Skirt
1 2/6 g ach T for e 36/-
A good strong
wearing shirt,
made of Grey
Twi6t Shirt-
ing thatrevels
in hard wear.
Shirts are
made with
two Breast Pockets to button.
Cut loosely all over for work
comfort. All Sizes.
PIKE BROTHERS
LIMITED
In Queen St ree t> Brisbane
SMOKE-OH!
We must get on with the job.” —Prime Minister
Bruce.
Ls anything but golf stopping him?
¥ ¥
“There’s many a blue word spoken in jest.”
Thought inspired by a commercial travel-
lers’ reunion.
¥ ¥
“NAUGHTY BABY!”
“Judge Curlewis passed sentence of 10 years on
Frederick , 35. Prisoner had a gaol record
dating back to 1895.” —Sydney Sun.
Never, methinks, since gaols were made
Was villainy like this displayed.
IHd he some hard-up midwife bilk,
Or rob Ms mother of her milk?
O. McK. M.
¥ ¥
THE WEEK’S CONTRAST.
Bill Smith, J.P., of Dingo Dell, passes
sentence : “You bin convicted, ’Arry, uv
stoushin a John, ’opping inter yer cobber
THINGS ONLY MIDDLING THIS MORNING.
ALPHONSE: “It doesn’t take much to turn a girl’s head
does it?” ’
HILDA: Evidently not. I noticed a silly-looking creature
looking back at you just now.”
an’ muckin’ up gen’ly. Fifteen bob or a
week.”
Judge Curlewis, of /Sydney, follows suit:
“You have been found guilty, prisoner, by
a jury of your peers, of the flagitious crime
of assaulting one of his Majesty’s police-
officers in the right and proper execution
of his duty. _ Further, you have engaged
m a brawl with an associate, and you have
rendered yourself obnoxious in other ways
to law-abi<jing citizens. “Animo, non
Astutia’ (which, as you doubtless know,
prisoner, may be translated, ‘By Courage
rather than by Strategy’) is no motto for
a resident of twentieth-century Darlinghurst.
I would remind you and your associates of
the Blud-street Basher Gang, of Isabella’s
reflection in that fine, though, alas! far from
flawless, work, ‘Measure for Measure’:
0 ! ’tis excellent
To have a giant’s strength; but tyrannous
To use it like a giant.
I propose to give you an opportunity to
debate with yourself the wisdom ' or other-
wise of that sentiment. The sentence of
the Court is that you be imprisoned and
kept to hard labor for nine calendar months.”
P. T. F.
“Premier of New South Wales presented to the
Pope.”— Dominion ( N.Z .) heading.
We wonder if his Holiness would accept,
the Leader of the Opposition, too?
%• *
GRAND UPROAR.
“Florence Austral, after singing ‘Gotterdammer-
ung’ in German, developed mastoid trouble.”
So the theory that mastoid trouble has to
be developed before singing in German is
fallacious.
* *
There is an outcry in America about the
number of citizens who have been shot by
dry-enforcement officials. The citizens want
to choose their own method of getting shot.
* *
CRISIS.
“Time!” cried the barman. “Time, cents,
please!”
And ihe whole pub echoed the dismal
sound.
“Gripes!” groaned the pug. in the bar-side
squeeze.
“ ’ E’s sounded the gong for the fi ial round.”
o. w. w.
THE REJECTION.
“Take back your heart!” Her angry cry
With terror made him shiver.
And then, before he could reply,
“You know I ordered liver.”
M. O.
* *
“In spite of the frost, two women friends met
in St. Kilda baths before breakfast.” —Melbourne
Herald.
Friends, and yet they gave each other
frozen stares.
* *
“In Queanbeyan (N.S.W.) a man of 95 took unto
himself a wife.”
You’d think a man of that age would elect
to pass his remaining years in peace.
the snub.
It now appears that the interjector who was
STL ? f the Oessnock evangelist’s meeting
with such violence was a pressman. It is said that
r k a Cke £ dOWI I a of stairs, and severely
maltreated afterwards by followers of the visiting
clergyman. —Sydney weekly.
‘Tin afraid, Mr. Stigmat,” sighed the
editor, as he surveyed the bandaged bundle
which staggered into his
sanctum, “that you
haven’t the temperament
for a position on the
Bugle. You are hyper-
sensitive. A hint of
trouble and you fall down
on the job.”
“Sir,” quavered the
wreck. “I flatter myself
that I can ignore a hint
as well as any member
of the profession. But I
am not overstating the
case when I tell you that
at this religious ceremony
I was not only given a
hint—l was snubbed!”
V. J. M.
# *
Mr. J. J. Daly, the new
Senate Labor leader, once
worked at a pie-stall.
This is regarded as a
useful training for the
tart-shop.
* *
A Maheno passenger
complains that the Maori-
land ’quake “added years
to the lives of many.”
Some men will growl at
anything.
* *
After re-hashing his
Cabinet it was natural
that Vic. Premier
McPherson should bring
in Brawn and Currie.
& $
American woollen
manufacturers want a
higher tariff for their
yarns. A big demand,
seeing that Yankee yarns
are easily the tallest on earth.
* *
“Harry Evans, a seaman, charged with having
used offensive language to a young woman, said she
had refused to marry him.” —News item.
She didn’t want this tar to guide her.
* *
Their better-halves young lovers may
Select from crowds of daughters.
And yet ere long discover they
Have got no better quarters.
Doe.
* *
“Amongst the reasons furnished for his return
was the inheritance of some flat property in Sydney.”
Now, presumably, he will proceed to fur-
nish his reasons.
TRUTHFUL TOMMY.
MOTHER: “Tommy, did you eat those bananas I put in
the cupboard?”
TOMMY: “Mother, I didn’t touch one ,of them.”
MOTHER: “Well, how is it there is only one left?”
TOMMY (getting near the door) : “I expect, mummy,
that’s the one I didn’t touch!”
AN EASY ONE.
“Didn’t I meet you at the No-go Cabaret last week?”
“Of course you did! D’you know, for the moment I
couldn’t think where I had, seen those knees
before.”
AGREEING WITH DOT.
He s gorn to the dogs, Bill,” said young
Mrs. Ted,
When I called for my pal who had lately
been wed.
“There’s an absolute cert, out at Mascot, he
said;
So, he’s gorn to the dogs.”
But I’d seen Ted with certs, punt and lose
his fat head,
And forget that he has to buy butter and
bread —
So 1 meant quite a lot more than Dot when
I said:
“True, he’s gorn to the dogs!”
V. J. M.
THE RHEUMATIC'S REGRET.
My bones so constantly do ache,
With so much anguish dm I wrung,
That I regret for comfort’s sake
I teas not filleted when young.
M. G.
AMONGST OUR PIONEERS.
‘‘Mr. , one of Forbes’s pioneers, died at a
private hospital at the age of 778 years. He had
lived practically all his life at Forbes.”— Oranqe
Advocate.
The family when approached by our inter-
viewer referred him to deceased’s grand-
father. The latter, who
has just celebrated his
1287th birthday, was
quite willing to talk
about old times.
“My memory is not so
clear as it might be re-
garding events of more
than 1000 years ago,” he
confessed, “but I will do
my best. We claim to
have been the first white
settlers in Forbes. My
dad came out in 246 B.c.
Pie was a galley slave in
one of Romano’s—or was
it Romalo’s?—ships, and
he won three successive
sweeps on the galley’s
run before the discovery
was made that he and
the quartermaster-ser-
geant, who was respon-
sible for the calculations,
were in collusion. How-
ever, he managed to hang
on to the cash an<l • in-
vested it in a property on
the Canoblas, a moun-
tain near that town
that’s always slinging off
at Bathurst —■ Orange,
ain’t it? After a couple
of hundred years the
thing started erupting,
and the dad scooted. The
other coves got drowned
in the lava, but the old
’un reached this place,
and he’d be alive yet if
his elephant hadn’t fallen
with him in the big jump-
ing event at the A. H.
and P. show in the fourth century.
“Pleased to have met you. If you’re up
this way in 2000 drop in for my great-grand-
son’s christening. He’s only 120 years old
now. Thanks, I will have a beer before we
part.”
MANANA.
THE MODERN FAMILY.
“By Jove, Bill, a man doesn’t know he’s
really alive until he hears the sound of little
feet pattering around the. house, Yes, we
have two. Of course, they’re a worry in
ways—always getting into mischief, and they
wake us up early in the morning. Our poor
old cat lias a rough time with the little
darlings, too—always beiug mauled about
by them. Still, the missus wouldn’t be with-
out ’em, although it is a bit of a nuisance
bathing them—the white one has to be
washed so often. I’d have got two blacks if
I’d been in the dog-shop when she bought
them.”
Pic.
THE POWER OF THE PRESS.
The editor of the Dog Greek Advocate
finished his notice :
“Nobody should miss this stupendous,
amazing and enthralling film drama of love
and sacrifice, of humor and pathos. ‘A Hero
of the West’ is most elevating. It teems with
noble sentiments, and illustrates most power-
fully the triumph of right over wrong. In-
deed, the entire programme of the Empire
Theatre is worthy of the highest commen-
dation on moral and other grounds, and we
give it our heartiest approval.”
Suddenly a thought occurred to him.
“Here,” he' cried into space, “where’s that
Empire ad.-?”
A voice from the other side of the three-
ply partition answered:
“The blankers are giving us a miss”
“Giving us a miss! An’ we got a half-
page and ten scatters from the Palace!”
“Ye-ali. They don’t go much on the press
there —at least, old Tom Gunning, who’s run-
hing the Empire now, doesn’t,
lie told me so.”
“That’s enough !’’ shouted the
editor. “I’ll show him.” He
seized his pen and wrote fever-
ishly.
“The chief offering at the
Empire is one that calls, un-
fortunately, for our special
attention. Recognising our duty
■—the inescapable duty of the
Press as the guardian of public
morals—we regret to say that
“A Hero of tlie West” is a
photo-drama of the most repre-
hensible type. It is salacity un-
adorned. To put it mildly, it is
a picture to which we would on
no account take our wife. We
dismiss this lamentable produc-
tion to its well-deServed limbo
v-'t:li a gesture of abhorrence,
and we have merely to say in
conclusion that we are aghast
at the censors permitting the
entry of films of such a frankly
pornographic character to our
fair Commonwealth.”
The next evening the editor
made his way to the Palace.
“How’s the house?” he in-
quired.
“Rotten,” was the reply. “If
yer don’t believe me have a
look.”'
Dazedly lie proceeded to the
Empire.
The notice outside the box-office was
enough. It read: “House full. No stand-
ing room. Free list entirely suspended.”


BLACK & WHITE
J
msm
mkim,
■ • '
f S 1 '< fi
•I mb , - »
ISi
:
■
: > H :
■
■KPWM
m
',, * :
*
K &'
.
' ’•• • ! , >; .'
■:■>• --t: * '■ ' 0 -r
.
s™i§v«te
- ... - ‘
mi
i Sf ;?
-
s
$
■
Mali!
IS
¥-RSP
. .
i
SCOTCH WHISKY
BOTTLED UNDER SUPERVISION OF THE COMMONWEALTH CUSTOMS.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., 1 to 5 GROSVENOR STREET, SYDNEY.


CHRYSLER
LEADERSHIP
today more pronounced than ever
1
Z
/
Chrysler "75” Town Sedan <
No SMALL part of the ever-grow-
ing popularity of Chrysler cars is
due to Chrysler’s singular and
significant leadership in perform-
ance. People recognised in the
first Chrysler something entirely
different which obsoleted the
sluggish, heavy, bulky
and cumbersome
vehicles of its day.
And they have com
tinued to recognise
“75”
FEATURES
Chrysler slender - profile radiator
thermo static ally'Controlled radiator
shutters external fitments chromium-
plated “air-wing” fenders rubber
mountings for body arched window
silhouette “Silver - Dome” high-com-
pression engine using any fuel Severn
bearing crankshaft rubber mount-
ings for engine hydraulic four-wheel
brakes hydraulic shock absorbers
spring ends anchored in live rubber.
—as witness the thousands upon
thousands of Chryslers on the
roads today—that Chrysler engi-
neering has never permitted any
of that lead to be cut down.
Indeed Chrysler engineering has
widened its margin of superiority
over those others who
after five years have
not even achieved
performance equal
to the first Chrysler.
C 152
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales ... Larke, Neave & Carter, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Ward Motors, Limited, Brisbane
West Australia Wm. Attwood Motors, Ltd., Perth
South Australia .... O. T. Rodda Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania Metro Motors Pty., Ltd., Hobart
New Zealand Todd Motor Company, Wellington
New Guinea W. R. Carpenter & Co., Ltd., Rabaul


25
AW”»V»W*.v>>-ravWy.«:«: ; :
m
M*y
s
m
DAWN BEGGS. Her
mother writes : “My
little girl is a Rexona
Girl, having always
used Rexona Soap,
which I consider ab■
solutely the best for the
skin and hair.”
Rexona Soap is in the sunshine of popularity
because it does all that it sets out to do. Its
devotees loudly acclaim its complexion pro-
ducing properties as the inevitable result of its
wonderful cleansing powers.
« Beauty is only skin deep,” they say, but it
will not be even that if the youthful bloom
with which Mother Nature endows us is not
protected in earliest years by using Rexona
Soap. Later the use of Rexona becomes a
habit, and the delicately nurtured skin tingles
with indignation when only ordinary soaps are
used. To be dainty and attractive—which all
girls like to achieve —use only Rexona Soap.
Price 1/- per tablet
SS&ss
r/M
f/l
Ok
*
4ft
i llll’
REXONA.
SOAP
for Health and Beautv
RSI4R
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your fancy, write
to the Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
Eighty Years of Faithful Service
to the Australasian public with a reputation for fair
and equitable dealing unsurpassed by any Life Office
in the World.
X5hQ
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Established 1849.
Assets - - - £73,776,000.
Large Annual Bonuses.
Protection, Provision and Profit secured under life
policies with the Society.
INQUIRIES INVITED.
F. T. BRIDGES , Acting General Manager.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch and District Offices in the Capital and leading Cities of Australia
and New Zealand.
Pen and Picture
The
STATE
CHEATRES
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Shadow Shows
“A Week-end Comedy” is as hard and
bright as a play by one of the Restoration
dramatists. In fact, if Beaumont and
Fletcher were alive they would probably be
doing this sort of thing; and as far as the
action is concerned they could not do it
better than Cinema Art Films. It concerns
the mix-up of two French husbands and
wives, and if there is no witty dialogue—
it is a silent film—there are motor-cars and
venal maids and gorgeous hotels and apart-
ments of fabulous luxury, dresses beyond the
dreams of avarice and no morals to spoil
the fun. Everything ends happily and con-
ventionally, the atmosphere is inexpressibly
elegant, and to be loved safely and yet as
beautifully as Estelle Brody is—well, it is
the secret desire of every flapper’s heart.
George Gee appears, but he is too much the
slave of his music-hall idiosyncrasies and his
remarkable face to cut much of a figure in
a story of high life.
The general action of “On Trial” (Warner
Bros.), like that of “The Trial of Mary
Dugan,” takes place in a criminal court, but
the talkie has the advantage in that it is
not necessary to convince the audience by
word of mouth. A witness begins to describe
something from the past, and by the use
of insets, the happening is portrayed pic-
torially. For once in a movie, the court
PAULINE FREDERICK.
scenes are
presented with
some respect
for the origi-
nal, and the
players of the
subsidiary
parts of judge,
barristers,
bailiffs and
others have
been chosen
with a care
that wonder-
fully helps the
picture to con-
vince. The
story is
simple and yet
neatly origin-
al. A wife
after censur-
ing her hus-
band for phil-
andering, goes
to bed, and
returns later
to find a
masked man removing from a safe a large
sum of money which had been paid to
the husband in settlement of a debt. She is
knocked down by the man, who escapes.
Recovering, she is pounced on by yet another
man, who holds her mouth in a corner. The
telephone rings, the husband comes in and
answers it, is warned that he is in danger
of being shot, and is immediately shot by
the man in the corner, who was the one that
paid the debt earlier, and who, as he rises
now, has his arm shattered by a stick
wielded by the servant. After the prosecut-
ing counsel’s address, it is an established
fact that the winged chap did commit the
murder, which he does not deny, and appa-
rently the motive was robbery. Then coun-
sel. who is defending against the accused’s
wish, questions in turn the shooter’s little
daughter and wife, strikes a tiny thread
of contrary fact, and with it drags out a
story of a matrimonial triangle beside which
the other motive is paltry and improbable.
The tale ends with a satisfactory adjustment
and the collaring of the real robber. Pauline
Frederick, Bert Lytell and Lois Wilson are
strongly supported by a fine cast, from
which Jason Robards, counsel for the
defence, stands out notably.
The inevitable grotesqhe human cripple
appears in Lon Chaney’s latest screening,
“While the City Sleeps” (M.-G.-M), but for
once the creature is not Lon, who, however,
makes an accustomed effort to win sympathy
for a physical defect: he is an obviously
too-old lover for the flapper whose dead
father had been a friend of his, and with
whom, in trying to keep her apart from
criminally-suspect friends, he falls in love.
He is a plain-clothes Johnop operating in
New York, and he gets on the track of a
Sheikish gang-leader dubbed Mileaway, sus-
pected of having “croaked” a jeweller. Mile-
away is also interested in the flapper, who
has a young lover of her own, but both
are warned off by Lon, who has caught the
second lad acting under Mileaway’s direc-
tions in a fur robbery. The girl, for reasons
that are not at all satisfactory, then accepts
Lon’s matrimonial advances, and the spec-
tators’ rather mild interest in who will get
her in the end is slightly fanned by a term
of gang hunting, in which Lon and the
New York police are seen fighting the evil
crew out of a large building with rifles,
revolvers and tear bombs. Chaney has done
better —much.
One of the best talkies to date is “Hearts
in Dixie” (Fox), although the talkie portion
of it is almost unintelligible. It is an idyll
of negro life on a Southern plantation,
and the deep, guttural but musical voices
of the principals, made deeper and more gut-
tural by the natural tendencies of the mega-
phonic reproducer, are generally impossible
to follow. The detail, however, doesn’t
matter, because the makers of the film have
so ably caught the innate primitive rhythm
of the colored soul that dialogue is not
required. The simple loves and hates of a
collection of jungle folk, dressed up in cast-
off European clothes, need no more explana-
tion than those of so many farmyard cocks
and hens, in which respect they are only
one remove from Italian grand-opera of the
melodramatic school. If anybody still has
doubts as to the origin of jazz they have only
to see how spontaneously the bodies of these
niggers react to the symphony of life. It
there is any story in the film it. concerns
the struggle between modern medicine in the
shape of a white medico and the Voodoo
woman for the life of a sick . girl. The
Voodoo woman of A. O. H. Billbrew is a
fine 'piece of work, but even finer is the
born-tired nigger of Clarence Muse. In fact,
all the main characters perform as if they
had never seen a camera before.
The Palette
The United Arts Club of Adelaide is show-
ing at the Society of Arts’ gallery. Leslie
Wilkie still dominates the rest, but portrait-
painting is coming on well under his influ-
ence, .as witness Paula Brain’s contributions.
Etchings are particularly good, in the., safe
hands of Van Baalte, Goodchild and Gilbert
Roach. But the striking feature is the work
of James Ferries. He has always had vision
and courage in composition, but with a
curious weakness in anatomy. Now he turns
a versatile brush to native life —realistic and
impressionistic both —to too-solid flowers
and especially to a Heysen-like “Horses
Ploughing.” He may yet do something big.
Will Ashton has a small but strong exhi-
bition at Preece’s gallery in Adelaide, the
scene of his birth and early training. He
ranges from Venice to Mosman, from Paris
to Kosciusko. Massiveness is the chief note
of his work, and he still seems happiest when
he can get water and city buildings together.
“F'.S.”: One result of the Vic. National
Gallery’s decision to make a little money
on the side by granting a motor firm per-
mission to reproduce a picture as an advt.
will be that Australian artists in the future
will take care to either retain the copyright
of the children of their brains or charge for
it. When Frith sold his “Derby Day,” exhi-
bited in the Royal Academy in 1858, he got
£l5OO for the original and the same figure
for the copyright. He did not underestimate
the commercial value of the opus, for it is
still a best-seller amongst reproductions.
The Inky Way
“Avon”: Philip Snowden, Chancellor of
Britain’s Exchequer, is the most frigid jour-
nalist I ever met. He is short, afflicted with
lameness, and has grey eyes that could bore
holes in diamonds. He neither drinks nor
smokes, and I suspect him of being a vege-
tarian, for at a tea given by the newspaper
folk of a Maoriland town I noticed that he
left the ham sandwiches alone and daintily
nibbled the lettuce-and-tomato ones. He
brought with him a young and charming wife,
also, until he married her, a follower of the
Inky Way. Snowden, after I had stammered
out a few words of welcome, replied, and
when he had sat down he kicked my ankle.
“Are you a married man?” he asked, glaring
at me as if I were an economic fallacy.
“Too right!” I said, startled out of my party
manners. “Well, my wife is a much better
speaker than I am, and she’s one of us. Ask
her to say a word or two.” Mrs. Snowden
surprised us. She gave us the wittiest im-
promptu speech I ever listened to, and Snow-
den looked at his plate with something as
near a proud smile as those grim lips could
accomplish.
“Kyn”: Bert Cook, founder of the A.J.A.,
returns to the Inky Way as commercial edi-
tor of the Argus. In 1918 Cook left the
post of Commonwealth roundsman for Mel-
bourne Herald to be a Government publicity
officer. Then he took a welfare-officer’s job
at Broken Hill, but industrial troubles upset
the promoters’ good intentions. Next he
entered Collins House, and became associ-
ated with the Baillieus. Latterly he was
sec. of the Vic. Central Citrus Association.
It was Cook who in 1919 induced Guy
Innes, then editor of Melbourne Herald, to
beckon Roy Curthoys from the West Aus-
tralian to the Flinders-street evening sheet.
Now Curthoys is to be his chief.
“Garrick”: An uncle of the late Dion
Boucicault, George D’Arley Boursiquot (that
used to be the family name), was a pioneer
of the Melbourne and Queensland press. He
launched the Standard in Melbourne in
1845, and three years later took over John
Pascoe Fawkner’s Patriot and Advertiser,
amalgamating it with the Standard. Bour-
siquot christened the combination the Daily
News, and as such it lived until 1852, when
it was bought and incorporated in the Argus.
Boursiquot went to Queensland shortly after-
wards and founded Rockhampton’s North-
ern Argus.
The latest Australian novel-writer is
Charles Lynch, Vic. sec. of the A.J.A., whose
infant is “The City of Dis.” Lynch’s yarn,
which deals with Australian politics, music
and art, has been syndicated for serial pub-
lication in various journals.
“Sandy Ego”: In Christchurch (M.L.)
street newspaper sellers still call “John Nor-
ton! John Norton!” when handling
Terewth. This dates from the days when
it was necessary to distinguish Norton’s pro-
duction from a local sheet with the same
title. The opposition changed its name to
the News before it passed out.
Dear Bulletin, — “Bumble” (B. 30/6/’29)
makes some untrue statements re Randolph
Bedford’s case. Pie says the plant on the
premises was not sufficient to satisfy the
judgment. That is not so; at the time of
judgment it was valued at £2500. The plant
was the fly in the ointment, as only a small
portion was owned by Cook, the former pro-
prietor, who had purchased from Edwards,
Dunlop and Co. Under Judge Henchman’s
ruling all the plant in the building can be
seized ; failing that they can follow any hire-
purchased plant and go for that co. as
owners. We are pleased to state this law
(?) of the convict days will be banished very
shortly.—Yours, etc., J. M. Plardcastle,
manager, Western Sun Newspaper, Ltd.,
Charleville (Q.).


V
r\
V)
Keep Poison Ouf Of
CUTS
A cut or sore place neglected may
within a few hours set up serious in-
flammation or blood-poisoning.
Keep Zam-Buk always handy.
This reliable antiseptic healer prom-
ptly applied to any flesh wound or
sore, prevents dangerous infection
from dirt and bad germs. Zam-Buk
heals without the least smarting or
irritation, thoroughly disinfects the
tissues and quickly grows new skin.
The secret of Zam-Buk’s amazing
power is in its refinement and herbal
origin and its freedom from animal
fats. Zam-Buk is ‘a surgery in a
two-inch box’. It is unequalled for
cuts, burns, scalds, chapped hands,
chilblains, eczema, poisoned wounds,
ulcers, bad legs, piles, etc,
AII chemists sell Zam-Buk at 1/6 & 3/6 box.
.Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap 1/- a tablet.
ẁ
ASTHMA
Catarrh,Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough,
Colds in the Head
Yield at once
to the soothing
fumes ot
2/6 per Tin from all Medicine
Vendors.
POTTEB & CLARKE. LTD.,
Artillery Lane. London. Eng.
ASTHMA
PDWDEP
For outdoors, use
Potter's SMOKING
MIXTURE and
CIGARETTES
TecalemiT
LUBRICATING
GUNS
ẃ
Any machine can be fitted
for a few pence per point
with Tecalemit Lubrication.
YOU SAVE MONEY
in man hours, lubricant and renewals by so doing.
TECALEMIT SERVICE STATIONS:
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street Perth
Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street Adelaide
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty., Ltd., Bateman Street Melbourne
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street Sydney
Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 .Adelaide Street Brisbane
Factory Representative: Mr. JAMES THORNELL, 312 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
TECALEMIT, LTD., Mitre House, Scrubbs Lane, London, N.W. 10., England.
Winner Last Year
J. R. Jeffrey, Kogarah, N.S.W.
This may be your
Lucky Year !
DON’T DELAV
Buy your
TICKET
To-day
\
0
Drawn 16th NOV., 1929
Tickets I/- obtainable
from Local Agent
or direct from
VW. YAGER, MIC.
Secretary,
Trades Halt
Sydney
&
I
£
i°'£
AON
a ND £4«o
OWLOtkrPrtzed
m
7/
/// ,
Xr\
K 5
Now We’U.
Get The
Best Results
THE performance of your radio depends largely on the
working of your batteries. Anew “B” or ”o** battery
will often put new life into your set. But how long does
this improvement lastT
Winchester Radio Batteries give you strong, clear reception —
not only when they’re new, but over a long period of time. Put
these lively, long-lasting batteries into your set and, day after day,
night after night, you will enjoy the best results.
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN. CONN, U. S. A.
WMCfffsnn
RADIO BATTERIES
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Ivaraway”: Another testimony to the
durability of Australian timbers was afforded
when workmen on the City Railway excava-
tion unearthed some coffins in front of the
Town Hall, the site of Sydney’s earliest
burying ground. The lid of one was of
hardwood, and was sound and free from
decay, though it had been buried in often wet
clay for 126 years. With the exception
of one brass plate, the metals in the graves
had long ago corroded to dust.
“L.T.L.”: Adelaide suburban railways
have suddenly abolished classes. There used to
be three classes, as in England, but the third
was dropped long ago; now trains will run
on the tramcar system, except on long-
distance lines. Fares have been cut by about
25 per cent.
* * # *
“Caldwell” : In the matter of catering for
the modern craze for speed, shipowners
engaged in the Australian trade are not doing
badly. On the Vic.-Tas. run the Nairana
generally manages her 21 knots —she is the
fastest craft in the trade —and her owners
have the Loongana, capable of between 19
and 20 knots. The Orient line’s five new
vessels are 20-knotters, while the Union Co.’s
Aorangi gets along at 181 and its Niagara
at 18.
* * -i* *
“Syce”: A. E. Young, returned to Mel-
bourne from a visit to India with polo
ponies, has been telling interviewers that
the Waler is still in demand over there, with
private owners as well as with the military
of the Raj and the native States. He is
taking 1500 remount and hack types back
in September. This discounts the conten-
tion that the Indian market is now of little
use to Australian horsebreeders. As for
polo ponies, a fine home market is spring-
ing up, as well as the developing overseas
markets. Consider some of the prices given
in Sydney last week, mostly for ponies from
Queensland: £5OO, £3OO, £250, £240, £2OO
(three at this figure), £lBO, £l7O, £l6O and
£l5O.
* * * *
“Bong Bong”: The drop in the price of
wool is hard on pastoralists who bought
country at boom values. Men in the Goul-
burn (N.S.W.) district have paid £lO an
acre for land which will run a sheep to the
acre all the year round. While they could
get 45d. or 50d. a pound for their best wool
and 20d. for the pieces they were all right,
but with 16d. as an average price they have
cause to look serious. The high price of
land is a cause of depression in rural dis-
tricts as well as high wages, but not so much
is heard about it.
* $ * -Jr.
“Coot”: Seventy-seven years ago C. H.
Ford, one of Bendigo’s first butchers, cut
a block from an ironbark-tree in High-street
and rolled it into his shop. The thing has
been in constant use ever since. Originally
three feet across and about four feet high,
it has been chopped down to about two feet,
but is still serviceable.
* * * *
“Caractacus”: I bought a pair of sock-
suspenders the other day. They were proudly
branded as Australia-made. But the box
in which they were enclosed bore the legend,
“Printed in U.S.A.”! If a contraption
of cotton, steel, white metal, silk and cotton
can be satisfactorily manufactured in Aus-
tralia, why should it be necessary to print
the box in, or cart the box from, U.S.A. ?
* * * *
“Pila”: The Dodge rail sedan bought for
the Vie. Railway Commissioners is now
hired out, with chauffeur, at Is. 6d. per mile,
and is doing pretty good business. Fitted
with a special chassis and flange wheels, it
weighs two tons, breaks 40 m.p.h., and can
be turned by a special turntable carried
under the chassis. During its 3J years on
rails it has covered 18,000 miles, and looks
good for many thousands more.
* * * *
“W.P.D.” : Queensland cotton-growers have
been offered a State Government guarantee
of sd. per lb. of seed cotton, up to a limit of
£30,000, for the present season only. If
sd. per lb. is made available by the Govern-
ment next year it will cover a crop of 10,000
bales of lint, equal to 14,400,0001 b. of seed
cotton, a total not likely to be exceeded
during the coming season. In 1927 the whole
of the Queensland crop was sold to Austra-
lian spinners for an average price of 4.7 d.
per lb. The following year 80 per cent, of
the crop was shipped to Liverpool; the
average price went down to 4.47 d. per lb.
* * * *
“Skirt”: Those Victorians who want “pro-
tection” against chilled beef from Queens-
land (B. 3/7/’29) got a set-back during an
interview with the Minister for Health.
They were told that so much of their own
product is sold in a chilled condition that it
is very difficult to make distinctions. As
the deputation’s chief contention is that
chilled beef is not so “healthy” as the local
variety, it departed thinking hard.
* * * *
“N’lmporte” : Every year thousands of tons
of quartz pebbles are imported for beautify-
ing graves and garden paths. Far superior
are the wonderful white pebbles scattered
about Yule Point, between Cairns and Port
Douglas (N.Q.). Heavy storms tear from
the White Cliff chunks of quartz and fling
them in a million fragments upon the beach
seven miles away; there they are worn
smooth by the action of the waves. A tem-
porary lease was recently granted by the
Marine Board to a young prospector who
sees commercial possibilities in the pebbles,
but the Port Douglas bumbles object that the
venture would spoil the beauty of the beach.
* * * #
“Toheroa”: In the far north of Maori-
land the storekeepers accept kauri-gum in
lieu of cash. Most of them are agents for
brokers and merchants in Auckland, and
many of them periodically send to the city
consignments of gum worth hundreds of
pounds. With a profit on both goods and
gum the storekeeper’s generally manage to
make a good thing out of the transaction.
The few gum-diggers who send their output
straight to the purchasing merchant are
the only ones who reap the full reward of
their labors.


&
'III
i/P
9W,
**r,
I?
w
GOOD hat takes
to itself the indi-
viduality of its
wearer, it even
reflects his moods.
It is regarded as a friend,
and as most men are
careful of the friends they
choose they choose a
Hat that suits your her
ersonau
Obtainable at all the
leading Mercers
A PRODUCT OF UNITED FELT HATS PTY-
MlO
LTD


Wide Public
Approval
Iroywyfrtnl
&RAAAM
PAlfit
Graham-Paige offers a variety of body
types, including Roadsters, Cabriolets,
Coupes and Sport Phaetons, on five chasses,
in sixes and eights at a wide range of
prices. All are equipped with four speeds
forward except Model 612.
Sales during the first three months of this
year were double those for the same period of
1928, and last year Graham'Paige achieved
the greatest first year sales volume of any line
of cars in automobile history. This remarkable
increase in sales reflects world wide approval
of Graham'Paige improved appearance, finer
performance and more substantial value.'
'6-s x *dcvmS
■fSpoAa-^
mmmmm
P 5
Model 827 Five-Passenger Sedan
Graham-Paige Distributors , Australia and New Zealand:
QUEENSLAND MOXON MOTORS, LTD.
NEW SOUTH WALES W. H. J.OBER & CO., LTD.
VICTORIA WALTER WHITBOURN PTY., LTD.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA . . . . MAUGHAN THIEM MOTOR CO., LTD.
WEST AUSTRALIA . ARTHUR BALES, LIMITED.
TASMANIA TWIN-TOP MOTORS PTY., LTD.
NEW ZEALAND
WRIGHT, STEPHENSON & CO., LTD.
/3AAAAM”PAI Gx
$
Too-Old/ ‘Tired-Out/
KIDNEY TROUBLE CAUSES YOUR WEAKNESS!
CHRONIC BACKACHE, SLEEPLESS, NO APPETITE, HEADACHES
TARE THIS WARNING
SUDDEN pains in the back, limbs aching with sharp, painful twitchings,
headaches, ‘‘dead-tired,” too-old feeling, worn-out, sleepless—Nature
flashes her signals to the brain, disclosing deep-seated kidney trouble.
Why do you go on suffering day after day,
month after month, when a host of men
once suffering as you do, many bed-ridden,
have come from “untold agonies,” terrible
depression to splendid vigor and' vitality?
There are thousands of healthy men and women
once chronic sufferers who could tell you De
Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills can be relied on
in cases of Rheumatism, Kidney Trouble, Loss
of Vitality. They would also tell you that you will
be very wise to invest in a box of this 40-year-old
standardised remedy. There is no mystery about
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills. Your chemist
can tell you all about the prescription clearly
printed on the box. Furthermore, he sells this
remedy under distinct guarantee that in 24 hours
you will see and know the pills are doing you
good. If not, your money is refunded.
®uarant£6
From the very first
dose “De Witt’s”
will prove their
health restoring
value. That is our
guarantee.
•JSWdb
Doctors in many countries and
thousands of one-time sufferers
recommend De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills for the speedy,
certain way they bring health.
Take just these two from a host
of recent letters of thanks:—
Mr. William Paul O’Keeffe, 163
Pyrmont Street, Pyrmont, N. S.
Wales, says:—
“I suffered for many years from ,
Kidney and Bladder Trouble, and
though I had tried many remedies
I gained little relief. I saw your
Kidney and Bladder Pills adver-
tised, and secured some. I im-
proved straight away, and after
taking a few bottles I was free
from all my pain. I consider they
are wonderful, and icill advise all
sufferers to take them and benefit
as I have done.”
Mr. John Rogers, 69 Harrow
Road, Auburn, N.S.W., says:—
‘'Three years ago I suffered very
badly with Kidney and Bladder
Trouble, and was in constant pain.
m
$
SSTiffi
A.
&
t>
&
'
: . ?
m^ms
; . W.
?A<
3
:n: >
l*?
■:::0i
mm
THERE LIES THE SECRET
OF YOUR TROUBLE
(The Remedy is told of here)
I tried all sorts of medicines with
very little result. A neighbour told
me about De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills. I took some, and
after three or four doses I noticed
improvement. After two bottles I
can say I am now in perfect health.
I am very thankful, and have told
many others about De Witt’s Kid-
ney and Bladder Pills.”
Why not let De W T itt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills start you on the
road to health to-day? Go to your
chemist and get a 3/6 or 6/6 sup-
ply ; take them regularly. You will
be amazed how quickly health will
come. If you really want health
and the vigor and vitality that
make you enjoy work and pleasure,
do not delay this matter. Act to-
day. If you are not near a chemist
write for a supply. The sooner you
have “De Witt’s’’ in your home the
sooner you will have once again
health and splendid fitness. Re-
member. there is no substitute,
nothing just as good as “De Witt’s’’
—the remedy with the guarantee.
s.xxiav 3 a
THE REMEDY THAT
RESULTS IN 24
SHOWS
HOURS
KIDNEY AND
BLADDER
PILLS


j SOYL u
* A
ẁ
ẃ
tosJWJ' '
f ,I- I'l'l _ I
L-
ii
~\v L-i] i
ti *
£
ii
''SWp-'jX *t ■? &»>iW
■a:
OT
m
*1
-JU
Welcome the Coming —Speed the Parting Guest with
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER,
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER.
Ask for Resch’s by Name.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Melbourne punters lost all sense of reason
on Grand National Steeplechase day by mak-
ing Chaumont favorite for the big event.
They backed him from 7’s to 3’s in parts
of the ring, though a point longer was re-
turned as starting price. This last-moment
rush was in complete disregard of the horse’s
recent form. Chaumont finished weakly in
a June steeple at Flemington, and knocked
up still worse on Grand National Hurdle day.
He fought his rider early in the Steeple-
chasers’ Flat Race, and perhaps that in-
fluenced ever-suspicious spectators. The son
of Divine Comedy was sadly overrated last
winter —either that or he has not developed
on normal lines.
Sandhurst is a big-timber Newhaven. The
Baverstock gelding took charge after going a
short distance, and had a lead of fully 15
lengths at one stage. That brainy youngster
Alick Fullarton, newly released from ap-
prenticeship, adopted methods similar to those
of Wally Burn in the Australian Cup on
Cherubini many years ago. He gave Sand-
hurst an occasional breather, luring other
jockeys into believing that the breakneck pace
was exhausting a reputed non-stayer. But
whenever the hounds commenced to gather in
their prey the fox would put forth another
burst of speed. At the final fence it looked
as if Sandhurst really was compounding, and
that both Mosstrooper and Seafit would cut
him down. But Fullarton was prepared for
the emergency. He drew the whip, and
shook oft Seafit, who was a length or two in
advance of Mosstrooper. A splendid finish-
ing effort by Mosstrooper obliged Fullarton
to apply the whip afresh, but Sandhurst
scored by a neck.
It was virtually a three-horse race. Wil-
lanjie, who, like Namera, had been on the
injured list, came home a poor fourth, with
George William dividing him from Namera.
The time was 6min. SJsec. —2|sec. faster
than the previous record, established by
Namera last year. Sandhurst is jointly
owned by J. A. Macleod, V.R.C. committee-
man, and C. F. Taylor, who sits
on the Victorian Club committee; Harry
Gabell, an intimate friend of the vet-
eran jockey Bob Lewis, trains him,
and the stable had a good win at eights, and
better. Gabell purchased the stables which
Norman Scobie occupied before leaving for
England (where he found fortune as private
trainer to Sir Charles Hyde) ; he landed an
Oakleigh Plate with Baringhup and the New-
market Handicap this year with St. Ardent.
Jack Donohue’s visit to Melbourne with
John Wren’s flat-racers, Toper and Pecunia,
has been a wash-out, but Joe Cook took the
Doutta Galla Hurdle and an acceptable
amount of gilt with May Day (3 to 1), who
vanquished Ken tie, the Grand National
Hurdle winner. The best horse won at the
weights, and none could understand why Ted
Webster entered a protest against the Syd-
neysider. Officials somewhat complicated
matters by adding the word “Inquiry” to that
of “Protest” on notice-boards in the Pad-
dock. It transpired that Webster complained
of repeated interference. H'is protest was
dismissed, but the stewards reprimanded
W. H. Baker for crowding Ivcntle at the
home turn. It seemed a case of “much ado
about nothing.”
Not Infallible (3 to 1) displayed improved
stamina by capturing the Trial Hurdle, while
the Brobdingnagian black Bratza (12 to 1),
who has been tubed for wind trouble since
he relinquished flat-racing, led home the
Footscray Steeple field. Bratza failed on the
previous Wednesday, but jumped the country
with more confidence this time. He is owned
by H. Myers, who sustained a blow when
Nyangay was killed at Caulfield recently.
Myers trained Nyangay for J. F. Ryan.
H’eld on lease by former jockey Ralph
Horne from Wallace Mitchell, the book-
maker, St. Lucia (15 to 1) appropriated the
Lawn Handicap to the deep satisfaction ot
the brotherhood; and Myarin (8 to 1) ac-
counted for July Handicap rivals, Fourth
Hand (imp.), who belongs to_the absent
Yic. Governor, being third at 25 to 1. He
is being tardily dropped in the weights. His
apprentice jockey claimed 71b. allowance, and
even then the horse had Bst. 131 b.
% H: * %
For Caulfield on Saturday:—
Murrumbeena Handicap : Ring Boy ; next,
Nawallah. x
Godfrey Watson Steeple: Bursary; next,
Selbourne.
* * * *
There was another sickening smash at
Moorefield on Saturday. It occurred in the
second division of the Juvenile Handicap,
only 50 yards or so from the point at which
five horses had fallen three weeks before; this
time four came down, two (Claredo, the favo-
rite, and Solesme) being destroyed, while
Birmingham, one of the jockeys, had to be
taken to the hospital, where the diagnosis
was “concussion and probable fracture of the
skull.” The grim repetition looks bad for
the course, but a theory more favored is
careless riding. This was so evident in the
previous division that the stewards sus-
pended Webb, rider of the favorite, Wood-
gera, for three months, though they very
indulgently allowed him to complete his con-
tracts for the day. A thing that rankled
in the minds of many of the spectators was
that the club’s “humane killer” was out of
action, a police revolver having to be requisi-
tioned to end Solesme’s agony.
Woodgera is owned by Tindall. Once
more that owner-trainer and big bettor got
second in one race and
first in another. His
winner was Shankara
(5 to 2), a speedy
three-year-old by Vio-
loncello —Twitter, who
commenced briskly—
several other fancied
horses didn’t —in the
first division of the
Flying Welter. In
the second division
there was a grand
finish between Royal
Duke (9 to 4), Nol-
ens Volens and Quince,
with the others out of
it; the judge decided
for Royal Duke, who
comes from Maoriland.
Spearshot (4 to 1)
showed promising
form in the Ivogarah
Stakes ; he is a stylish-
looking fellow by
Spearhead Ramson,
and should stay.
Puff, a 7-to-2 'favo-
rite for the MOorefield
Handicap, beat every-
thing bar Waipori (14
to 3), who came with
a fast-finishing run.
Waipori is a consis-
tent little mare by
Polycrates—Black Eyes, and her long price
was a surprise. Of late Aorangi has been raced
at middle distances, and the experience hasn’t
affected his pace, as he showed by capturing
the Ilurstville Mile at 6 to 1. He wore
down Staroff (5 to 1), who was heavily
backed “in running.” Spearshot, Staroff and
Quince are probable early winners.
* # * *
For Canterbury Park on Saturday:—
Maiden Welter: Vanishing Lady.
Flying Welter: Quince; next, Greencorn.
Canterbury Handicap: Octember; next,
Speechmaker. .
Club Welter: Lord Kennaquliair; next,
Staroff.
* * *
“Breakfast Creek”: A strike of owners,
trainers, jockeys and bookmakers against a
Brisbane proprietary racing club known as
Ivedron Park has thrown «ome interesting
sidelights on the game. A deputation of
strikers asked State Treasurer Barnes to
purify proprietary racing in general and that
at Kedron Park in particular. It protested
that not only were the prizes offered often
wretched, but it was the custom of the
club, when there were not sufficient nomi-
nations for a “first-class” race carrying, say,
a whole £75 in added money, to cut it out of
the advertised programme; on the other hand,
nominations for cheaper events were per-
mitted up to the last minute. In these cir-
cumstances, it was impossible to keep the
wolf from the stable door. “Owners,” the
deputation confided, “have to resort to_ prac-
tices which should not be encouraged, ’ and
jockeys find it less profitable to go straight
than “to deal with bookmakers who are pre-
pared to deal with them/’ After that frank
admission, the deputation departed, leaving
a somewhat staggered Minister behind it.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
With a body built on the lines of a weight-
lifter and the ability to bounce like a rubber
ball, Meyer Grace, another American boxer,
made his debut at Sydney Stadium on Satur-
day night, and scored a meritorious win,
after 15 hard rounds, over Australian middle-
weight champion Ted Monson. Practically
a welter, Grace scaled lOst. 7ilb. to Mon-
son’s list. 21b. The visitor was as full of
fight as a bull-ant, and relied mostly on a
left rip to the body and a hook to the jaw.
For most of the journey he carried the fight
to his taller and heavier opponent. Monson
was uncertain, and fought miles below his
best, while except for occasional bursts his
punches lacked fire. Meyer dropped his man
for eight in the second round with a clinking
left hook to the jaw, and again in the fourth
for nine. Monson took it all unflinchingly,
and in the sixth trapped Grace on the ropes
near the latter’s corner and gave him a great
belting. He also took the tenth by a wide
margin, but the verdict in favor of the visitor
was the only one possible.
* * * *
The exhibition of wrestling provided by
Allen Eustace (16st.) and Ad. Santel (13st.
81b.) at Melbourne Stadium on Saturday
night was apparently entirely satisfactory to
the audience. Allen is certainly a wonderful
specimen of humanity, and his 2cwt. of
bulk is not marred by a superfluous pound.
Possessed of enormous strength, he tossed
Ad. about in a manner that upset the equa-
nimity of that usually placid gum-ehewer.
Allen scored first fall in the fourth round with
his favorite body scissors, but Was appa-
rently in trouble as the result of a toe-hold
in the sixth. Ad. squared the ledger in the
following spasm with a short-arm scissors.
The points decision for Eustace was not
well received.
“HOLD ON, BILL—THIS SEEMS A GOOD SPOT!"
Footbrawl
Only one of Melbourne’s League games
on Saturday was worth watching, that be-
tween Collingwood and Essendon at the
latter’s ground. Essendon set out to run the
Magpies off their legs, and the pace was so
good and the play so emphatic that for a
while it had them rattled. But the
machine presently began to function, and
Essendon’s quarter-time score of 32 points
to ’Wood’s 9 was reduced by half-time to
an 8-point lead. By lemon-time Colling-
wood was in front, and, playing steadily, it
finished up with 92 points to ’Don’s 715.
This so annoyed a section of the bar-
rackers that police had to guard the
umpire, and even the tired and bruised
winners had to be escorted off the premises.
Some 23,000 enthusiasts, paid £438 to see
Richmond wallop St. Kilda, and found the
game wasn’t worth the odd £B. A sloppy,
untidy scramble, with the Saints under-
neath all through : Richmond, 91 points ; St.
Kilda, 53. The Carlton-Eootscray imbroglio
was willing, the ball being often ignored in
favor of the man. At the end, the superior
and heavier Blues owned 110 points to
’Scray’s 43. Geelong downed Fitzroy with
96 points to ’Roy’s 71; and South Melbourne
provided North with its eleventh consecu-
tive licking, 116 points to North’s 81. Haw-
thorn put up a bright skirmish with Mel-
bourne, and only the latter’s regular last-
minute finish saved its bacon—Melb., 53
points; Hawthorn, 43. Each team has now
met the others once, and unbeaten Colling-
wood looks like finishing the season that
way. CSrlton is next best, and Richmond
follows. Probably Melbourne will squeeze
into the final four.
* ' * * *
South Australia beat Victoria comfortably
at Adelaide on Saturday, winning by 74
(10-14) to 62 (8-14). This avenges the
defeat in Melbourne earlier in the season.
The Victorians were just off the train from
Perth, where they had played a couple of
hard games against Westralia. Over BOjOOO
paid to see the match.
# * * *
“Cascade” : Launceston has a unique foot-
baller, name of Williams. For North Tasmania
v. South Tasmania juniors, he kicked 10
goals. He has never been known to dispute
an umpire’s decision or to speak to the man
lie watches, and he takes no notice of advice
from the barrackers. He is deaf and dumb.
* >!: # *
“Bumpk”: Oakleigh (Vic.) council re-
cently discussed the question of giving a
municipal job to a footballer so that the
local team could retain the services of the
gentleman. Councillors seriously put for-
ward the argument that the great achieve-
ments of the Oakleigh team had drawn the
eyes of the country to the suburb, led to
an influx of new residents, and hence in-
creased the value of real-estate. If this
is so, the council’s proposal to offer a
mere job is shabby. It should strike a new
rate and with the proceeds keep all the mem-
bers of its football team in the dignified idle-
ness they have earned by chasing a muddy
ball on Saturdays. Of course, if the team
suffers a few defeats the value of real-estate
in Oakleigh will presumably decline, but it
will all have been sold, so that won’t matter.
f * * * *
In spite of wet weather, some 3000 spec-
tators rolled up to Melbourne Exhibition
Ground to see the All Blacks tackle a com-
bination of N.S.W. and Victorian Rugby
Union players. The combined side fought
valiantly in the first half, holding the for-
midable visitors to a 7-0 lead. In the second
spell, the M.L. combination told its tale,
and landed the side home winners by 25 (5
tries, 3 goals and a field goal) to 4 (a field
goal). Sturtridgc, the Victorian centre who
will figure in the next Test, played good
football, but the outstanding Australian
was the Newcastle (N.S.W.) full-back, Burke,
who showed international form, and was
responsible for the field goal scored by his
side. Stringfellow was the star of the oppo-
sition, scoring a try and also kicking a field
goal from the full-back possie.
* * * *
“Gate” : At the end of the first Test against
the visiting Maorilanders, the N.S.W. Rugby
Union, which is handling the tour, was in
the happy position of being able to say that
gate receipts already showed a profit over all
expenses for the long and costly visit. All
other receipts from matches will be so much
baksheesh, and should result in a tidy credit
balance after the last match is played in
Sydney on July 27. When the Union decided
to take on the Cricket Ground at increased
rates, the evicted League gleefully promised
financial disaster. Results have fully justi-
fied the judgment of the Union officials and
their faith in the drawing power of the
famous amateur code. With the British side
over next season, even better things may be
looked for.
* * * *
“Two Blues”: One man who tore himself
reluctantly away from Sydney when the
Royal Commission on the Southern Cross
had finished its work was its president,
L. C. Wilson. The All Blacks had invaded
N.S.W., and the temptation to see them in
action was strong, in spite of business calls
in Brisbane. In the 1890’s, “Lach” Wilson
was a fine Rugby forward who specialised
in hooking, and for years was one of the
regular front-row men in that great club
team, the Brisbane Past Grammars.
% * # ❖
“Hooker”: The visit of our old friends
the All Blacks to Australia has revived that
eternal controversy about the wing-forward,
whom our cousins of the Dominion persist
in fielding in the face of protest from all
the other Rugby Union playing-centres of
the world. The South Africans solved the
problem with characteristic forthrightness
when they entertained the lads of the black
jersey last season. They laid down the prin-
ciple that the wing-forward would be treated
as if he were a half-back. That ruling not
only renders his particular activities innocu-
ous, but cuts him right off the map as a
forward, and destroys his reason for exist-
ence as such.
(Continued on page Jfl.)
Walter Limlrum was too good for Willie
Smith in their time-limit match in Mel-
bourne which ended on Saturday night.
The winner scored 24,234 to Smith’s’ 22.147.
The outstanding feature of the match, how-
ever, was a magnificent break of 1057 by
Smith, made by all-round play and including
shots of every variety. He was going splen-
didly when he broke down on a fairly easy
loser. Landrum’s best effort was 991.
A.D. 1989.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The crew of the Southern Cross arrived at Ran-
goon in time for the big race meeting.”
Jones caught an airship at the ’drome. He
meant to break the run
Of outers that had shrunk his roll before the
set of sun.
“The milkman's brother got the oil about the
Bangkok Plate,”
And tive hours later saw him land at Ran-
goon racecourse gate.
lie did—as he had often done—his “shirt”
upon the horse,
Which finished as his last cert had, a long
way down the course.
He sent a message to his wife: “Please, don’t
expect me soon.
The good thing finished up a lane —I’m walk-
ing from Rangoon.”
VICTORIA.
P. T. F.


run mi
»"»
i
IIHUj
III! !
$
A
Q £
K &
%
Wl'-'iir'-''
r ,,,, r»»Ti f i
! E
UlUln.'lfl
jiiin.i • ijj
lim.m.'M
iiiiimhlh
l/MuhJ®
ill *•■•(ls9
WUiirlHß
%
4>
*
m
o'i
S»o'
SB
1
Bottled cmd
Guaranteed
by Cl LBEYS.
Our* signature
on tkedabel Is
our Bond and
your Protection."
ITO.
ifi'Z
mm
3
J 5
A
ẅ
Legal Notice.
TO BERTHA NELLIE MARY GUNDER-
SEN formerly of- Golden Grove in the
State of Victoria Married Woman.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation bearing
date the 13th day of May 1929 has been
issued in the Supreme Court of South Aus-
tralia citing you to appear and answer the
Petition of Henry Gustav Joseph Gunder-
sen of Florence Street Goodwood in the State
of South Australia Tramway Employee pray-
ing for a dissolution of . his marriage with
you on the ground that you have without just
cause or excuse deserted him and without
just cause or excuse left him so deserted
since about the 16th day of December, 1919.
AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that
you are within thirty days after the date
of this publication to attend in person or
by your solicitor at the Office of the Master
Supreme Court House Victoria Square Adel-
aide South Australia and there enter an
appearance in the suit In default of your
so appearing you will not be allowed to
address the Court and the Court will pro-
ceed to hear the said Petition proved and
pronounce judgment in respect thereto in
your absence.
DATED the fifth day of July, 1929.
W. L. STUART,
L. T. GUN, Master.
14 Waymouth Street, Adelaide,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT 01'
1 TASMANIA.
Matbimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO THOMAS NEWMAN WATSON form-
erly of Hobart in Tasmania but now
of an address unknown.
WHEREAS a Citation herein issued out
of this Court citing you to appear and
answer the Petition of Laurel Pearl Watson
for dissolution of her marriage with you on
the . grounds of adultery and desertion
TAKE NOTICE that unless within thirty
days from the twenty-fifth day of July
instant you cause an appearance to be
entered in the said Court to answer the said
Petition the Court will proceed to hear the
charge proved and pronounce sentence your
absence notwithstanding.
DATED this twenty-seventh day of June,
One thousand nine hundred and twenty-nine.
C. S. SIMMONS,
Clerk of the Supreme Court of Tasmania.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
An Ideal Winter Home —The Most Sheltered Spot on the Harbor, with Private Beach and
Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds
and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4 \ guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip ♦rom City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines).
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.


THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Price 3d,
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 Georae Street, Sydney.
MEET
AH3IA
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
RIN'TIN'TIN
m
*55
I the
I famous
f Screen
Actor
is fed
exclusively
on
Ken-T -Ration
THE DOG FOOD SUPREME
FREE—Sample Tin sent to any address
in the Commonwealth.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB, P. 0. Box 1821, Melbourne
BERT :"WHAT ARE YOU BACKING," ?
G\EQT I BiLLVTOLO ME
But l C/\NT REMEMBER
ITS HMWB ■"
BEST •* WELL., HEQ6S A BOOK,
SEE \F IVS THERE"?
<SEST OH. \ REMEMBER HOW,
HE TOLD ME To PUT ALL
I had OH THE TOTE ,
Footbrawl
With the Maorilanders playing in Mel-
bourne, the N.S.W. Rugby Union resumed
its interrupted grade fixtures on Saturday.
The results left six clubs with only four
pointsseparating them, Western and North-
ern Suburbs being bracketed at the head
of the list. The game between Randwick
and Western Suburbs at the Cricket Ground
produced a keen struggle, the Westerners
eventually winning by 13 (3 tries and a
field goal) to 15 (2 penalty goals). The
field goal by Stewart was a wonderful effort
from the 'touchline, 60 yards downfield.
Westfield was in great buckle at full-back for
Randwick. University beat St. George by
26 to 11. The Saints made a great rally
in the second spell, scoring 11 points to 10.
Northern Suburbs put it all over the Police-
men at North Sydney, scoring 21 to nil.
J. H. Morrison turned out again for Police,
and his form suggests lie will be fit for the
final Test against M.L., if required. A great
battle between Manly and Glebe-Balmain
at the Village saw the home side scrape home
by a point, scores being 13-12. There was
little in it, but as usual the Manly men
proved tough nuts on their own midden.
At Hampden Oval, Y.M.C.A. won an even
game from Eastern Suburbs by 16 to 8.
Glass showed fine form for the Young Men
at outside-centre.
* * * *
The All Blacks silenced their critics in
telling style in the second match against
N.S.W. at Sydney, winning by 22 to 9. They
scored only four tries to three, the balance
being made up from conversions and pen-
alties, but there was no doubt about their
superiority on the day. They have a wonder-
ful pair of inside-backs in Oliver and Lil-
burne, while the forwards are now up to the
best ML. traditions. The home side was
outclassed; bad handling, so prevalent in
the earlier matches, was more in evidence
than ever.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: Regrettable as was the severe
injury sustained by Cyril Towers in the first
Test against the All Blacks, the “squealing”
indulged in by a section of the Sydney press
was even worse. Ugly knocks are unavoid-
able in the game, and no spectator of the
big match has been able to come forward and
say he saw any deliberate attempt to lay out
the tricky Australian threequarter, which is
what one journal actually asserted was the
case. Inter-dominion visits like that of the
All Blacks are supposed to breed a spirit of
camaraderie, and usually do. Wild press
criticisms and accusations of the sort cited
certainly act in the opposite direction.
❖ * * *
The Australian side to meet the Maori-
landers in Brisbane is notably different from
the first. Towers is out with injuries, and
bis place has been taken by the big Victorian
five-eighth, Sturtridge. Though a student at
Melbourne Uni., he is a Queenslander, so the
Northern State will be well represented, for
in addition to forwards Bonis, I-lamalainen
and Thompson, who did well in the first
game, the speedy little Monger McGhee re-
places Gordon of N.S.W. Provided the team
as selected is fielded —there is doubt about
one or two of the Welshmen being able to go
up—it should give a first-class account of
itself.
* * * *
Some of the League grade games in Syd-
ney on Saturday resolved themselves into a
farce, many of those players chosen for the
English tour making it evident they were
taking no risks. South Sydney ran all over
Glebe to win by 31 (9 tries and 2
goals) to 4 (2 p.g.’s). It was the easiest
of tasks for the winners, the representative
forward, Treweeke, scoring four tries. East-
ern Suburbs surprised their worst friends by
beating North Sydney 12-10 at the Agricul-
tural Ground in a terribly poor game.
Shankland, one of the selections for Eng-
land, scored two tries for East. Western
Suburbs were far too good for Balmain at
Pratten Park, Craig’s handling of the back
division nonplussing the ’Mainiacs. Final
scores were 21-13 in favor of West, but
the winners had a longer lead than figures
indicate. St. George could only win by
8 to 7 against the weak University
side at Earl Park. The first half was score-
less, and Uni. encouraged their backers by
leading 7-3 until well through the second
spell. A lucky try by Freestone, who con-
verted, saved the Saints’ bacon.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: The Rugby League team
for England is to take a coach and mas-
seur with it, and the choice has fallen on
Arthur Hennessey, once a stalwart of the
Union code, but an early seceder from its
ranks to those of the professional body. He
repped for N.S.W. against Maoriland in 1901
and Queensland three years later, being a
very useful type of front-row forward. After
adopting the League game, he played for
N.S.W. and Australia, touring England with
the first Australian professional side in 1908,
in addition.
* * * *
“Bowen Park”: The success of the re-
bellious Brisbane Rugby League (B.
10/7/’29) is evidenced by the impassioned
appeal for help made to the N.S.W. League
by a prominent Queensland League official.
He has implored the N.S.W. body to draw
up next season’s programme of inter-State
matches with a view of consolidating the
position of his organisation, for lie has ex-
pressed a fear that, during his absence
abroad, his bantling will almost certainly be
assassinated by its wicked relative. The
unfeeling N.S.W. mob is waiting to see how
the cat jumps.
* * * *
“Swan”: Westralia was plunged in gloom
when Victoria defeated the local footballers
on their own stamping ground at Perth. The
crowd of 29,000 was the biggest ever seeh at
a game in the West, and well over £2,000
was raked in. However, the sun broke
through the clouds at the return match, for
after a hectic battle the home side reversed
the previous verdict, getting home by 42
(5-12) to 39 (5-9) ; the winning goal was
hoisted just before the firfal bell.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot” : Henri Coehet, winner for the
second time of the singles at Wimble-
don —he won in 1927, only to be beaten
by his compatriot, Lacoste, last year—is a
solid, dour type, and altogether different in
style and temperament from the mercurial
Basque, Borotra, who fought out the final
with him. A very cool and steady player,
he completely mastered Jean’s attempts to
make a net game of it, and let his older
opponent wear himself out in rushing up to
position. It is worth noting that Borotra’s
constant foot-faulting was the subject of a
lot of adverse comment. It was the same
here, but nothing was done. Our tennis
heads, at least, did not show, any inclination
to kill a goose who was laying them golden
eggs.
% iji #
“Top Spin”: A feature of the Wimbledon
tourney was the excellent showing of the
younger generation of Britons. Austin
in particular did surprisingly well, de-
feating Hunter and Brugnon comfortably,
while his colleagues of the Australian
tour, Gregory and Collins, were also
well to the fore in the doubles, the
pair downing Borotra and Boussus, and mak-
ing a fine showing against the young Ameri-
can winners in the final. Their form, if we
except that of Gregory, who carried off the
Australian championship, was not considered
exceptional here.
“Applesauce” : The surprisingly good show-
ing at Wimbledon of Mrs. Bundy, an Ameri-
can entrant, has roused the section of the
London press which specialises in that sort
of thing to a tenderly sentimental interlude.
As May Sutton, the lady won the women’s
singles in 1907. On that occasion she pro-
mised a diligent ball-boy that next time she
came to Wimbledon she would give him an
inscribed racquet. When she returned
after 22 years’ absence, she found the
ball-boy, now metamorphosed into a news-
paper-seller, ready for his racquet. But
she ratified the contract like a sports-
man. The writer’s sympathy goes out to
Mrs. Bundy. Hers was the galling predica-
ment of the individual who, having promised
to return a borrowed quid next pay-day,
finds the sordid creditor waiting on the mat
for fulfilment.
* * * *
“Let”: An attempt is to. be made to force
the Australian tennis authorities to enter a
team for the next Davis Cup, the N.S.W.
Association having taken the matter up. It
is more than likely that the majority of
the States will back the movement, and
rightly. There is no earthly reason why a
team should not have beeu entered for the
tourney now in progress. The funds in
hand are ample, and even if the young
players at command are, perhaps, short of
Davis Cup winning standard, they are cer-
tainly good enough to make a first-class go
of it, and get additional skill and experience
in the process. They were mostly too good
for our British visitors last season, yet
these have proved themselves fit to rank
with the world’s best at the recent Wimble-
don meeting. The present policy of the Aus-
tralian body is sadly in need _of revision.
So is the list' of controlling officials.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Query”: Melbourne Commonwealth
Club’s young prodigy, Harry Williams, con-
tinues to do remarkable things in the way of
golf. Not yet 14 years old, he now plays
off scratch, is a member of the championship
club’s pennant team, and during a recent
visit to Macedon, the somewhat mountain-
ous country-club where most of the elite of
Victorian golfers foregather at holiday
times, annexed two trophies, the winning
of one of which involved his breaking the
course record.
* * * *
“Carnoustie”: One of those gentle little
jokes which the great art and mystery of
golf is always intruding on its professors is
reported from a Sydney club. A player got
on to “ground under repair,” and as in such
case made and provided dropped a ball. The
pill rolled downhill and fell into the tin.
The question is whether the thing should
not count as being holed out. Personally
I don’t think so. A stroke at golf must
be made with a recognised golf club, and the
hand which drops a ball cannot be accounted
as that. Other aspects of the situation 1
decline to discuss, beyond saying that I am
heartily in accord with the player’s oppo-
nent, who, with his friends who witnessed
the incident, claims that the happening really
amounted to holing out in one, and is
asking, “What about it?”
* * * *
“Old Q.”: The Queensland open golf
championship held at Brisbane last week
was won by Dick Gazzard, who finished two
up on Dick Carr, a former holder of the
title. A replay was necessary over 36
holes, the players having tied with 298 each.
Both men are professionals, Gazzard at Sand-
gate club, and Carr as an instructor at
McWhirters. Last year’s holder of the
title, amateur Ivo Whitton, did not put
in an appearance to defend it.
“Zorro”: What is claimed as a M.L. long-
distance record in golf was established at
Miramar course, Wellington, the links where
N.S.W. first won the Kirk-Windeyer Cup.
Marsden and Hughes at last beat Daniel
and Mack at the 54tli hole. The match took
three days., the players almost completing
three rounds without settling the issue. As
a matter of fact, they would even then have
been all square if Daniel had not made the
mistake of going for the hole after his oppo-
nent’s ball had halted on the brink, knocking
it into the cup.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: Queensland golfers have just
got over the Yeerongpilly Cup, a mixed handi-
cap event for amateurs and professionals.
The professionals get much better recogni-
tion in the North in matches of this kind,
as the annual A.I.F. competition shows. In
this, the amateur and pro. meet on equal
terms. In N.S.W., and elsewhere, the A.I.F,
event is fenced off for amateurs only. li.
Paterson, an amatuer from Goodna Club
holding a minus 20 handicap, won with
a net score of 145. Dick Carr, the youngster
who was open champion of Queensland in
1026, returned the best gross score, 149. As
the youthful professional is on the plus six
mark, he had to be content with fifth place,
though he took a special prize for his gross
score.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Melbourne golferesses seem to
be the only associates game to assert their
individuality. At least, the annual match
between associate members and professionals
is the only one listed that the writer can
place. The fifth meeting of the sort oh
Sandringham links the other day saw the
professionals soundly walloped, the women
winning by 51 matches to in the singles,
and by 21 to 11 in the foursomes. The
winners received eight strokes per round, and
teed off from the 40-yards’ shorter women’s
tee at each hole. Nevertheless, they came
out a little better than their handicap in
the result. The Australian cliampionette,
Mona MacLeod, halved with A. Spence in
the singles, but the most notable victory of
the day was the four up and two to play
gained by Gladys Hay over that sound player
J. Young.
* * * *
“Mcllaggis”: The fact that none are so
ignorant of the rules of golf as those who
have been playing it for years has often
been emphasised by the writer. An illustra-
tion of this is seen in an occurrence in
the recent amateur championship of England,
played at Newcastle. In the semi-final were
Cyril Tolley, twice amateur champion of
Britain, and W. Sutton, another player of
note. On the last green, Tolley had a three-
foot putt fo sink to square. There was a
chunk of snow between his ball and the hole,
and Tolley was told by the referee that he
might remove it. Sutton objected, saying
that snow patches had interfered with putt-
ing at holes previously played, and that he
had not asked for removal. Tolley waived
the point, putted and lost his match. Neither
player seems to have known the rule which
allows snow on the putting green to be
scraped away with the club without penalty.
Not lifted or scratched, mind you : but just
scraped away. P.S. —The scraping must
be along the line of the putt, too; not
across it.
* . * * *
“Baffy”: Tied matches have always been
a feature of the American open golf cham-
pionship, quite apart from Bobby Jones’s
performances in that direction (B.
10/7/’29). On six other occasions the two
men in the final have ended all square. The
classic instance was the dead heat between
the mighty Vardon and Francis Ouimet, then
an unknown amateur of 20. in 1913, the
American winning the play off.


Repairs.
“Our Hands Make Good Arms”
Firearms sent C.O.D.
II II I TB— ■
u3^B3j
RELIABLE ENGLISH HAMMERLESS
12-GAUGE GUNS.
Holloway & Naughton, £l7/10/-, £2O, £25,
£32/10/- and £65. Cashmore, £2O; Bone-
hill, £2O; Webley and Scott, £2O; Claborough
and Johnston, £22/10/- and £65.
Both barrels full choke, chambered for 2|in.
Some Sin. These guns are specially made for
me to suit Australian conditions.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
’Phone MA3540,
1438 Elizabeth Street (near Market
Street), Sydney.
(LATE 110 BATHURST STREET).
“Fishing Tackle to Tackle Fishing.”
w
s tszhzsg&l
excellency operate—**
all hand pump ylinder, ,
double-acting y upward an
a air at now* r in ner
draws strokes. , the
downward str der d oes
high-press« re
res ™«..« »/“ R 7 SSo.th>..
Eyre ne urn* Wholesale
procurable 1 jjouscs.
/ THE
RENRUT
QUADRUPLE
Price, 45/-
V
(With Gauge,
5/- extra.')
If unabl our Factory
write to ou _ Mr.
Rep S w ABNOIiD;
J°? N Rox U- Mel-
GP.O. \us?tralia.
bourne,
\
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
hooks are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
SIR AUREL STEIN.
On Alexander’s Track to the
Indus
Personal Narrative, Explorations
on the North-West Frontier,
India. By SIR AUREL STEIN,
K.C.I.E. Illustrated. 21s. net.
Women Are Like That
By E. M. DELAFIELD, author of
"What is Love?” etc.
[Empire Library.
Times Literary Supplement : “An extremely
astute book, full of fresh and witty observa-
tion.... How penetrating, how amusing about
everyday things Miss Delafield can be! Again
and again she makes you laugh by simple
touches of human nature. And to be made to
laugh is a thing to be grateful for.”
The Statesman’s Year Book,
1929
Edited by M. EPSTEIN, M.A.,
Ph.D., F.R.G.S. With maps.
20s. net. m
Industrial Fluctuations
By A. C. PIGOU, M.A., author
of "The Economics of Welfare,
etc. With charts. 255. net.
[Second Edition.
An invaluable reference book for bankers,
business men, and all concerned with Inter-
national Finance and Affairs.
International Gold' Movements
By PAUL EINZIG. Doctor of
Political and Economic Sciences,
University of Paris. 6s. net.
The Problem of Industrial
Relations
And Other Lectures. By HENRY
CLAY, M.A., author of “Eco-
nomics: an Introduction for the
General Reader.” 1 2s. net.
Economist: “A contribution, on these lines,
to the study of the distribution of wealth was
badly needed.”
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emeralds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
W. JNO. BAKER
3 Hunter Street,
Sydney,
VtJHOJBAKERI 0
&
91 9 ©
W. J N 0.. BAKER
BAGGING AND BOTTLE
OUTFIT. This Outfit con-
tains sin. Red Tang,
Double Hollow-ground
Dagging Shears, Tin
Bottle and Small Oilstone.
The Sheath is made of
the best picked leather,
and riveted throughout.
Has loops for attaching to
saddle, also double handed
girth strap.
NO. 15—The above Outfit
complete, 22/6.
Postage 1/3.
a a a ai
916 —Fitted with
Bush Knife and
Rosewood Handle
Steel, 16/6 per set
complete, post free.
817—Fitted with
Plain Rosewood
Handle Knife and
Steel; blade same
shape as No. 1,
15/- per set, com-
plete, post free.
WIM
HAND-FORGED SHEEP AND CATTLE EAR
MARKS made in accordance with the regula-
tions of the Stock Departments.
HAND-FORGED SHEEP AND CATTLE FIRE
BRANDS made to order; also TAR BRANDS.
W. JNO. BAKER,
THE HOUSE OF STEEL
Car and Cycle
“Disc Clutch”: Most people are ob-
sessed with the idea of the aeroplan . .
superiority over the motor-car in the matter
of speed. Really there is little to choose.
For instance, in its recent flight tiom k-
ney to Derby, en route for England, the
Southern Cross averaged 94 m.p.h. tor tlie
2070 miles. Good, but 2724 miles were
covered in France in a 24-hour spin by a
Voisin car: average, 113 m.p.h.
* * * *
“Whizz”: The European motor-racing
season is now in full blast, and record follows
record with bewildering rapidity. One ot the
most important races, the French Grand l nx,
was run at Le Mans the other day, ami
resulted in a, win for the English drr\ er, E.
Williams, piloting a Bugatti. The winner
averaged 88 m.p.h. over the triangular road
circuit of 420 miles. The last Englishman
to collect the trophy was Sir Henry Se-
grave, who won in a Sunbeam m I.Eo,
averaging 75j miles per hour.
* * * *
“Spark”: The results of _ the N.S.W.
Royal Automobile Club’s reliability test show
that the best all-round performance was
put up by one of the largest cars competing,
a 4389-c.c. Vauxliall, driven by Norman
Smith in the “expert” class. The car not
only ranked among the fastest at the meet-
ing, but covered the hilly ten-miles course
on 2-J pints of fuel, though running well
over the fixed minimum speed of 21 m.p.h.
* * * *
“Babicar”: I’ve often wondered why the
American automobile-makers, who every now
and then face the possibility that the world
will be unable to absorb the deluge of their
large, loose-limbed, high-powered contrap-
tions, haven’t had a go at baby-car produc-
tion. English makers have had that field to
themselves ever since the “cycle-car” displaced
the Yankee “buckboard,” largely because the
English motorist is subject to heavy taxation
adjusted on a h.p. basis and has to pay
through the nose for petrol. Now that petrol
taxes are becoming fashionable and the
money is being spent on making roads
smoother and smoother there is being created,
in Australia and other countries, a demand
for a car that will run 40 miles to the
gallon and cost not much over £75. Gadgets
and luxuries would have to be cut out —a
6-h.p. motor, a clutch, two gears, a brake,
a big lamp in front, a little lamp at the back
and a body big enough to accommodate four
adults would fill the bill.
* * * *
“0.H.V.” : A record unequalled by any other
racing motor-cyclist has been put up by
Charlie Dodson, the English rider. On a
Sunbeam he won the Senior Tourist Trophy
Race on the Isle of Man last year and this
year, and now ho has won what might be
called the “senior” French Grand Prix
(SOOc.c. class). That is a road-race, in,
which the best riders of all Europe compete,
and the course is a difficult and dangerous
one. In the 350-c.c. event Simcock, a Mel-
bourne rider, who was frequently seen on
Sydney’s Maroubra track a couple of years
ago, came second, also on a Sunbeam. Sun-
beam motor-cycles, it should be stated, have
no connection with Sunbeam cars. They
S. S. DEAN, chairman of the Management
Committee of the N.Z.R.U., and now in
Australia with the All Blacks.
are made by a Wolverhampton firm, which
makes rather a boast in its advertising that
its wares are well above the average in
price.
* * * *
“Cyclone”: A contributor to this column
a few weeks ago commented on the very high
gears used by racing and other cyclists in
Australia, and suggested the obvious advan-
tages of lower gearing. His argument is
supported by English practice. There they
ride over hill and down dale in road-races —
the minimum distance is 25 miles —and
many riders use a mount with a sprocket on
each side of the rear hub and a fitting of
the rear Avlieel that enables it to be quickly
changed round. This gives two gears, and
the crack English riders of to-day choose
a high gear of about 70 and a low of 60.
It takes about 90 seconds to make the
change, but despite that the English times
over comparable roads are considerably
faster than Australian averages. The hill
a man almost bursts his boiler over on a
gear of 80 or 90 can be ascended easily and
in half the time on 60. Maoriland, which is
much more addicted to cycling than any of
E. THOMPSON, the burly Queensland
forward, whose work in the Australian
vanguard against the formidable Maon-
landers was most notable.
the Australian States, and which abounds
in steep hill roads, is going in for road-
racing again in earnest, and more than one
club is considering the restriction of gears
on humanitarian grounds.
Miscellaneous
“Bamboo” : The victory of Goulburn in the
Dudley Polo Gup was in a way a triumph of
mind over matter. The Indian team, here
last year, pointed out that the Australian
system of playing on a snaffle instead of the
orthodox bit and curb was a handicap which
Australian players going abroad would find
it hard to overcome. Goulburn took the
hint, and started to train their ponies on
the bit. The wisdom of this was seen in
the extra handiness of their mounts, which
more than made up for the magnificent
quality of the Harden ponies and the fire
and vigor of their riders. After that example,
it is safe to say that every pony playing in
Australia next year will do his job with a
bit replacing the once universal snaffle.
# * * *N
“Ride Off”: Few followers of polo cavilled
at the selection made last week of the
team which is to tour America, though the
inclusion of the young Inverell player, Doug-
las Munro, was a bit of a surprise. The
first four will probably be lined up with
J. K. Ross as number one; G. G. Ashton,
two ; Curtis Skene, three; and T. F. Ross,
back. Everyone will envy the time ahead of
them. Their American hosts have invited
them on terms which can only be described
as princely. In addition to all travelling and
accommodation expenses, the U.S.A. Asso-
ciation is paying all the exes, for five grooms
and for all ponies taken from and to Sydney
and during the tour of the team on the
other side. All the same, the tourists will
have to carry a tidy wad with them. Leslie
Cheape, a member of the British team
in America in 1914 —it just got back to
Britain by the skin of its teeth —told the
writer in Egypt, later, that he parted with
over a thousand pounds in mere petty cash
during that tour. A regular cavalryman,
attached to the Westminister Yeomanry, he
was killed a few weeks later in Sinai.
* * =» *
“Hotham”: The Victorian bowlers re-
cently in Brisbane came back lost in admira-
tion of a trio of bowling brothers who are
known far and wide as “the noisy Smiths”
—the name, by the way, is not the right
one. Their loquacity, or rather the lack of
it, so got on the nerves of one of the
visitors that he laid a bet with a mate that
he would make the most talkative >of the
trio speak. Invitations to visit the poker-
machine, though repeated, had no effect at
all. In desperation, he said, “Well, how
much did you win your match by?” That
broke through the other’s studied reserve.
Forgetting himself for a moment, he raised
three fingers. The Vies, are still arguing
as to which shall pay.
' B:as”: The reference to the visit to
Europe _of an Australian bowling team
(8.. 10/7/'29) reminds me that I recently
received a sealed document outlining
the proposed itinerary. This suggests
disembarkation at Toulon, a tour of the
Riviera and Italy, and thence on to
Paris by way of Switzerland, to be followed
by a visit to Brussels and, of course, Ostend,
where the Casino now rivals that of Monte
Carlo. No mention is made at all of bowls
or of Britain, where the tourists are supposed
to be committed to a ; series of games. The
return through America is not favored. Con-
ditions there are against the true bowling
spirit, which, like the pastoral industry, does
not burgeon under drought conditions.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Roller-skating is experiencing
its periodical revival. In Sydney a score
of dance-halls have changed over to skating;
and in Brisbane several of the prominent
halls adopted the craze before it passed
south. Even the second-hand shops have
been emptied of skates which the pro-
prietors, Avho acquired them during a previ-
ous boom, had begun to regard as junk.
Such booms have been regular; a factory in
Cleveland-street, Redfern, originally speci-
ally built as a rink, is a monument of an
epidemic of 40 years ago.
sf: sje * ❖
“Foresheet”: Not only are the owners of
the big yachts preparing for the coming
season on Sydney Harbor, but the open-boat
enthusiasts are also hard at work getting
ready for the opening of their year, which
begins in September. This type of sailing
and the craft which are used in it are
peculiar to Australia, and its popularity
grows year by year, with deadly rivalry
between the States, particularly Queensland
and N.S.W., to help. Sydney builders alone
will put just on a dozen new craft on the
water before September, most of them “18’s”
and “16’s.” Though not as expensive as the
big craft, these fragile shells, built for the
most part of cedar, cost a lot to start, and
even more to maintain in racing condition.
ijs S: * *
“K.McG.” : I agree with “Gaffer” that the
ole ped game is up ter putty—too many
crooks slippin’ in. I’ve slung it fer good
after the last meetin’ at White’all. Me
mob was out to mop up the pool, an’ there
was on’y two station abos. to be scared of.
We words ’em both, an’ finds ’em agreeable.
Soolim reckons he can win on ’is own, w’ile
Stringybark remembers ’e’s subject ter
cramps. The station, manager wot wuz run-
nin’ ’em, ’owever, was one uv those dirty
dorgs wot ain’t got no ideer uv common
’onesty. I planks er lotter cash on Soolim,
an’ w’en we’re ’arf way down the tapes I
sees ’im runnin’ like an ’amstrung duck an’
Stringybark goin’ at ’is top. Jerryin’ I’d
bin doubled, I sticks on the pace, an’ w’en
Soolim sees me passin’ ’is mate ’e comes
like the devil on two stilts. I slacks up
in the larst stride and lets the darkie break
the worsted. It knocks me balmy w’en the
judge sings out I wuz first an’ Soolim
second. Says I to ’im after, “That wuz er
close finish; I thought the nigger won.” Says
he, “Well, he did, but it wuz so close that
I give it to youse sooner than to er nigger.”
It wuzn’t till I found the ole cow was
uncle uv the station manager wot nominated
the nig. that I sent in me papers.
* * *
“Aileron” : A genuinely sporting event was
the King’s Cup air-race round Britain last
week. The circuit of 1170 miles was done in
a gale, and ended in an exceptionally close
finish for an event of the kind, the winner
landing home by a bare 100 yards. He was
Lieutenant Atcherley, one of the British
representatives in the coming Schneider Cup
race, and he sent his Gloster-Grebe along
at an average rate of 150 m.p.h. Second
place was filled by a Moth, piloted by
lieutenant Richardson, who won the special
prize for light ’planes. A woman pilot, Miss
Spooner, finished fifth and another unusual
happening was the chartering by an American
millionaire of one of the great Airways
liners, which flew the last few miles home
alongside the competitors.
>'(: * * *
“Goshawk”: Badminton (B. 19/6/’29) is
taking on rapidly in M.L., and at Napiei’,
Wanganui and Auckland the standard of
play is high. T. Kelly holds the national
singles title; F. N. Harvey, formerly an
Irish Rugby trial man, and R. Creed Mere-
dith, a Trinity College (Dublin) padre, are
other leading exponents. Badminton is not
reserved for the socially elect; the singles
champion works in a quarry.
* if *
“Pot til’ White”: The N.S.W. amateur
billiards championship completed last week
was easily retained by L. W. Hayes, who
ran to his 1500 points when his opponent,
P. O'Leary, was only 618. The winner’s
best break was 146, and his play generally
indicated that his experience in the Empire
championship, which he won at Johannes-
burg some months ago, has been helpful.


ŵ
(P c CaLLurn’s
Scots CCi liislcy
J)
LIMITED
€OINBUR.QH (FOUNO6O LON* s *'"^
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
N. 8. Wales:
GOLDSBROUGH, MOIIT & CO., LTD.,
Sydney.
Victoria:
GOLDSBROUGII MORT & CO., LTD.,
Melbourne.
South Australia:
GIBBS BRIGHT & CO.,
Adelaide.
Western Australia: LIONEL SAM SON & SON,
Fremantle.
Tasmania:
McFARLANE BROS. & CO ,
Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
Auckland:
COOKE & CO .. LTD.,
197 Albert Street. Auckland.
Wellington:
ELLIS MAN TON, LTD.,
Lombard Bldas. Bond Street. Wellington.
Christchurch:
FRANK A COOKE, LTD.,
Co’omho Street. Christchurch.
Dunedin:
LANES , LTD.,
Dunedin.


p
gjo Mark Linen
CASH’S NAMES are destinctive*
(yet neat fadeless and durable)
ai
Actual Sue.
Sly re No. 6
{J3. lYlHiamA.
Prices; 9 2 do*. 7/6, 6 do*. 5/-, 3 do*. 3/6
SOLD BY LEADINC DRAPERS..
Write for Name Style Circular to
J. fr J. CASH Pty.Ltd.
65 Cubit3St.,Richmond, Melbourne
a
Washing RIBBONS
WUMJJh
1 MEW AFTER REPEATED WASHING"
ẁ
6
Uhe MonKS/ioe.
finest Willow
ban call. whit*
lamb linings,
flexible v/elbed
Soles, leather
heels in. two
lasts e~ D 1- 25
fittings.
m
HH
m
m
S!
592
[•ill* - ]
ẃ
155 KINC Quality Shoes
ẅ
7hp centre of Queen s /onc/s
dtstingu/styod Soo/ot Li/e.
€n\nom
w
mote I
*= BRISBANE
Magnificent Ball-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disnosal oi
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane,
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines,
Melbourne
Chatter
Many people came uown from the country
for the famous Steeplechase at Flemington,
and there was a great attendance of Mel-
bourne folk. It was damp underfoot, but
sunshine tempered the keen air. Social
writers discovered that there were still fur
coats and cloth wraps having a first airing
at the meeting. Some new footwear was
seen also, in what the Yankees term over-
shoes ; one particular pair was of grey suede
with matching astrachan tops. Another girl
took no risks of wet feet or spotted silk hose;
she sported regular riding-boots with a tweed
ensemble. Goloshes and half-rubbers had
a day out likewise, but the greater number
of the daring sex risked colds in transparent
stockings, snake-skin, kid and satin court
shoes.
Mrs. Stanley Bruce aired a mole fur coat.
The Lady Mayoress brightened a black turn-
out with a shoulder posy of orchids. Mrs.
Cleve Kidd’s attire was outstanding—a very
pale grey fur coat with silver-fox collar and
a swathed velvet toque. Country visitors
included Mrs. W. Lindsay and Miss Crawley
from the Western District; Mrs. A. E.
Dunne, of Warrnambool, well tailored in
heather tweed ; the Bryon Gumming couple,
from Camperdowm ; and Mrs. J. Twomey, of
Penshurst. The Maurice O’Rorkes were
among Maoriland’s representatives; he, by
the way, is a grandchild of knight Maurice
O’Rorke, famous in Maoriland’s political his-
tory. During their visit they are the guests
of the Alister Clark couple.
For a space on the second day of the
races, women were able to shed topcoats.
It wasn’t a great ladies’ day; ’flu and colds
kept many away. Outstanding was the pale
grey tailored suit and felt hat, allied to
white fox furs, worn by Mrs. T. J. Ryan,
formerly of Brisbane —she now lives in Mel-
bourne. Mrs. Fred Grimwade’s black cloth
coat was of the new mode; it dipped to the
back in tabbed points. Mrs. Stanley Bruce
was of the wearers of tweed, and Betty
Fairbaim gave uplift to a
sports suit by bordering her navy felt hat
with red and white.
There was no difficulty in getting on the
trail of anyone who attended the Big
Brother Ball; the pretty programmes, which
contained a number entitling the holder to
a trip to Japan, were highly perfumed.
Plenty of palms and ferns were moved into
the Town Hall for the occasion, showing up
nicely against the brown velvet, curtains
of the platform. Had a representative of the
Tailor and Cutter been present he would
have seen persons in day suits rubbing
shoulders with the exquisitely-turned-out
Prime Minister—and perhaps fainted away.
Womenfolk did not offend like that; they
came in the required dress or undress of the
moment. A rather fetching and unusual bit
of upholstery aired by a dark-liaired girl
w-as a petunia and black-striped silk that
melted into a fan-tail back panel; one
almost heard her murmur “I was a Queen in
Babylon.” The Commodore of the Maori-
land squadron and several of his officers
added distinction of navy-blue cloth and
gold braid to the scene, which had further
brightness of a stray military mess uniform.
The Lud Mayoral Harold Luxtons stepped
in, she in black lace. Mrs. Bruce’s nigger-
brown chiffon flounces were spotted with
gold. Mrs. Norman Brookes (she was hon.
organiser) and the Fairbairn lady (president)
were among the lace-clad ; and Valerie Purves,
one of the honorary ticket secretaries, wore
green of the hue associated with wood
nymphs which was tulle-flounced, top-decked
with taffeta. Mrs. Richard Linton wore
sweet-pea pink georgette depending from
a sheath bodice of glistening beads in mesh
design. Mrs. James Purves chose a gown of
oxidised embroidery, and Florrie Green,
softly sparkling in crystal and flesh pink
chiffon, gave extra cash support by running
a stall of extras. Floral draperies trailed
about Mrs. L. A. Middows. Side interests
of the ball were the exhibition dancing by
Pat and Terry Kendall and ballets from the
Regent and Jennie Brenan’s school of danc-
ing. The lucky collector of the free trip to
Japan was Mr. S. Gahten.
The shrieks and yells of fright—from the
gallery chiefly—at tne initial performance of
“The Zeppelin Terror” at the Palace must
have been sweet music to Tom Moore behind
the scenes. It was the first effort of Gladys
Monerieff and Tom Moore in management,
and the airship went smoothly on its way
through clouds, storms, tragedies and a most
realistic smash. Shootings, stabbings and the
like were so many that no crew and only
about half of the passengers were left to be
rescued at curtain-fall. All uprose from life-
boats and watery graves to smile; their thanks
and gather in flowers, floral Zepps. and even
bottles of champagne from an evidently de-
lighted crowd. Some charming evening
gowns were seen in Act 11. Colonel Brins-
mead and Mrs. Brinsmead were on hand
to see the launching of the aircraft.
A revival of “A Night Out” filled His
Majesty’s from floor to ceiling on Saturday.
The musical play in its new dress had an
uproarious welcome, mostly bestowed on
Frith and Gus Bluett. The most picturesque
ballet offering was a pierrot setting witli
Pat and Terry Kendall as soloists. Helen
Patterson, the leading miss, wore one dainty
frock of white taffeta, the full skirt scat-
tered with crimson cherries. Pity this actress
does not go in for fluffy undies instead of
wearing the tights and abbreviations of the
acrobat.
Professor and Mrs. W. A. Osborne handed
over their eldest offspring, Audrey Joseph-
ine, to architect Leslie Garrard Calm on
Friday night. The bride, who was born
within the Uni., trailed wonderful Limerick
lace and tulle to the altar of Trinity Col-
lege chapel, with a double quartette of
’maids—flappers and schoolgirls, half-and-
half —in attendance. Rainbow tints, pink,
blue, green and biscuit, formed their frocks,
surmounted by silvery bonnet-shaped millin-
ery. After-celebrations were held at the
Uni. clubhouse, Mrs. Osborne wearing a
blue gown lit up with silver lace. The
newly-weds are to take a trip to Europe
in the near future.
The Commercial Travellers’ Club unpacked
a new sample at St. Ivilda Town Hall —a
ball which is likely to become an annual line.
The green and gold colors of the association
formed the basis of the decorative scheme
with baskets of roses and festoons of light,
while the C.T.A. flag filled back-stage. Sec-
retaried by G. A. A. Dennett, with F. J.
Weldon checking finances, the innovation
caught on. Mrs. John Glen, wife of the
association president, was in filmy black
lace; she and Mrs. G. A. Grant, whose hus-
band was chairman of the ball committee,
were handed bouquets of pansies. Officers
from Maoriland’s quota of the Navy were
guests at the hop.
The Yorick Club staged a smart dance at
No. 9 Darling-street, and fully 200 gyrated
thereat. Dr. Stanley Argyle, who is presi-
dent, and Mrs. Argyle, whose wine-colored
lace gown was artistic background for a
shower bouquet, smiled a welcome.
A recent matrimonial linking was that of
Dr. Bartolini and Miss Sterling Stewart
Ferguson, a sister of medico Stewart Fer-
guson, famous in this city as a children’s
specialist. Dr. Bartolini, who came this
way about four years ago, forsook chemis-
try, which earned him his doctorate at an
Italian university, for opera. Now he
teaches singing here.
Brooth orn
here pictures
Adelaide Al-
lan, sister of
music - pub-
lisher George
Allan, whose
name is known
throughout
Australia. Miss
Allan is vice-
president of
the Auxiliaries
of the Queen
Victoria Hos-
pital, and was
the hon. sec. of
the Kurneh
ffete, She has
been connected
with various
charity move-
ments, but
now devotes
all her time
to the Q.V.H.
Mrs. Norman Brookes’s South Yarra home,
Kurneh, was the scene of an exceptionally
well-organised fete and dance for the Queen
Victoria Hospital, of which she is president.
There were well-filled stalls of cakes, sweets,
antiques, fancy-goods, cigarettes and flowers.
In the afternoon three hundred people played
bridge and students of the Albert-street Con.
gave a concert in the ballroom. In a mar-
quee well equipped with radiators, afternoon-
tea and supper were laid. Hundreds of paper
flowers —hollyhocks, sunflowers, stocks and so
forth—which had been made by Mrs. Brookes
and her workers, garnished the tent and were
later sold for the cause. At night wattle and
balloons decorated the ballroom, and pink
heath and irises the reception-rooms.
Priminister Bruce and his wife were there,
the lady in pale grey with a gleam of crystal.
Mayor Luxton came with Mrs. Luxton, whose
gown was) of Lido blue georgette, and Rear-
Admiral Evans also looked in. Knight Robert
Best and his lady (she was chairwoman, of
the organising committee) ; Frank Clarke’s
lady, in bright blue ; and Mrs. Edgar Rouse,
of Sydney, were among the dancers. There
were many lace gowns and lace bridge-coats.
Mrs. Brookes wmre a cherry-red lace gown
with a scarf pendent from the shoulder. Com-
mander J. B. Stevenson’s wife was in a mole
lace dress with a short coat, and Mrs. Val
Macdonald w T ore lace of pale blue. Cafe-au-
lait lace was the choice of Mrs. H. Bundock,
of Sydney, and Mrs. N. Price spotted cob-
webby material of pale green and gold.
Georgette was popular, too, and there were
also some charming velvet outfits. Hair has
begun to grow again, and many knobs rested
upon napes. The schoolgirl daughters of
Mr. and Mrs. Brookes—Cynthia, Elaine and
Hersey—were among the workers, who in-
cluded Mrs. W. M. Robins, Mrs. C. Marriott,
Mrs. Drake-Brockman, Mrs. James Purves,
Mrs. John Tait, and Mrs. U. J. Nicholas.
After the theatre J.C.W. artists gave cabaret
turns, stage-managed by George Smith.
This charming lady is a well-known hos-
tess in North Westralia; her husband, Dr.
Theodore Hodge, is resident magistrate at
Derby. She is
a daughter of
the late John
Sadleir. Many
parties given
by old Univer-
sity friends
have shown
the returned
one that
though long
absent she was
not forgotten.
Mrs. ITodge
has found life
in the Kimber-
ley country
very interest-
ing. Her young
daughter
Helen is play-
in g hostess
during moth-
er’s winter in
M e 1 b o urne ;
her eldest son has gone on the land and is
doing wonderfully well; another son is gun-
nery officer on the Canberra, and Kitty, the
eldest girl, is seeing Europe—she was recently
presented at Court. Ruskin made the picture.
A well-deserved honor, and a unique one,
has come the way of Grace Margaret Wilson,
who conducts the Somerset House private
hospital. She has been given the Florence
Nightingale Medal. She was awarded the
Royal Red Cross decoration for services in
the Great War and was mentioned several
times in despatches. As Matron-in-chief of
the Australian Army Nursing Service, she
earned a C.8.E., and she is an ex-president
of the Army Nurses’ Club.
With Alexander Brailowsky at the piano
and the University symphony orchestra doing
the rest, the house-full sign was hung out
at the Town Hall on Saturday night. The
wild applause with which the soloist was
received promises well for his farewell
matinee next Saturday at the Town Hall.
Brailowsky compares with Kreisler for
naturalness and liberality with regard to pro-
grammes. Among those in the vast audi-
ence were the Robert Bests, the Masson lady.
Mrs. A. Gunn and Mrs. Albert Miller.
Parties and receptions are being arranged
for Dusolina Giannini, who is to uplift het
dramatic soprano at the Town Hall on the
27th. If the youthful prima donna hadn’t
star qualifications her looks and dress sense
would put her in the front row.
Maoriland Trade Commissioner Manson
headed a party of local Car-owners who took
the officers from his country’s warships for
a day out at Frankston. The fleet tied up
at the Peninsula golf links for a round and
the midday meal.
Red-berried holly and crimson draperies
were added to the permanent decorations of
No. 9 and vied with coats of the huntsmen
—hunting “pink” is anything from carmine
to blush rose—at the ball given by Hubert
Miller, Master of the Findon Harriers
•Hunt Club. The women present mostly
chose finery that would harmonise, or at
least not clash, with the gay attire of the
men. It was a jolly hop, and Melbourne’s
most eligible (and alas! most impervious)
bachelor proved himself a perfect host. His
mother, Mrs. Albert Miller, was there to
lend a hand. Her black gown was embel-
lished with silver sequins about the skirt
hem, and there were draperies of old lace
around the corsage: Mrs. George Black-
wood waved a biscuit-toned feather fan over
a trained black velvet robe. Edward Miller’s
white-coiffured lady looked queenly in sap-
phire-blue. Mrs. Alan Currie, Jean Russell
and Geoffrey Miller were other of the host’s
relatives present. Priminister Bruce brought
Mrs. Bruce, whose frock, of gold lace ter-
minated in flounces of mauve and black lace.
The hon. sec. of the Findons, R. M. Cuth-
bertson, took a night off from politics to
join the glad throng with Mrs. Cuthbertson,
who chose wood-brown draperies, Alister
Clark, who was accompanied by his wife in
black net and a sparkle Of rhinestones, was
one of the Oaklands Hounds representatives.
General Johnston and his daughter Gwen,
in blue, were among the Melbourne Hounds
followers; and Mrs. A. E. Syme, wearing
black and gold, deputised for her husband,
Dr. Syme, Master of the Lilydale-Yarra
Glen Club. A. V. Hiskens, a good friend to
the Hunt Clubs, attended, accompanied by
his wife and his daughter, Lorna. General
Chauvel and his lady, Mrs. H. Bundock,
Major and Mrs. Harrison and Ella Payne
were dancers.
A social storm of receptions has whirled
around Captain J. Stewart, of the Royal
Artillery, since he stepped ashore. He is here
to keep an altar date with Eileen Taylor, so
another of our girls will presently be settled
in an Indian bungalow. Since her return
home Eileen has been busy getting a trous-
seau ready for the August ceremony. The
pair met during her trip to Asia last year.-
Nine debutantes, all in pale pink, made
their bows to the Mayoress of Brighton, Mrs.
11. E. Pullman, at the annual dance of Fir-
bank Old Grammarians. The principal, Miss
M. Cameron, who aired lace of cafc-au-lait
hue, held out hand of greeting to guests;
Joyce Young, in pale green, was hon. sec.
Bessie Williams, who showed talent as
an amateur mummer in productions for
philanthropic objects, is to be a January
bride. The happy man is Arthur Procter, of
Launceston, eldest son of the late Robert
Procter and of Mrs. Procter, of Alloa, Scot-
land. Bessie is the only daughter of the
T. H. Williams couple, of Neerim-road, Caul-
field.
Mrs. T. A. Tabart gave a card party at
her Malvern home to aid the Malvern-Arma-
dale branch of the Women’s Hospital
Auxiliary. In the ballroom and dining-room,
where players assembled, the tables wore cov-
ers of crimson. Holly from Tasmania figured
in the decorations, and scarlet candles stood
in old silver candlesticks. A gift of winter
roses (a flowering shrub) arrived from the
Botanical Gardens of Ballarat, and at close
of the games found a ready sale. The hostess,
who is president of the branch, besides pro-
viding tea, donated several raffle prizes. Her
daughters Edna and Pixie and many other
workers helped to make the afternoon a suc-
cess. Mayoress Luxton, Mrs. George Lang-
ridge, Mrs. J. Alston (president of the
W.H.), Matron McDonald and Mrs. A. E.
Ivimpton were players.
This year the Children’s Hospital bene-
fited by the generosity of Mrs. Ham, who
makes over the Wattle tearooms, with all
refreshments, for an evening annually for
some charity. The 12tli saw many hundreds
crowding out the rendezvous, bridge and
dancing comprising the programme, with
innumerable sales and raffles. As usual,
the staff, following the lead of the pro-
prietor and her sons, gave their services and
joyously raked in currency for the cause.
Judges of a knitting-and-crochet competi-
tion engineered by Foy and Gibson had
a difficult problem in picking the winners, so
good was the form shown. This Page halted
in admiration at the piles of beautiful baby
shawls, infants’ sets, dressing-jackets and
jumpers displayed in the windows. To in-
crease the popularity of Gibsonia wool was
the object of the event, which proved that
machinery has not deadened women’s talents
with regard to knitting-needle or crochet-
hook.
Blythswood, the home of the Geoffrey
Symes, wore signs of festivity when daughter
Joan, in gilded metal fabric, put on a dance
as celebration of the birthday of her pal,
June Baillieu. Mrs. Syme was a handsome
and well-apparelled figure in ruby-toned lace,
and the guest of honor, who is pretty and
vivacious, was set off in apple-green geor-
gette. Commander and Mrs. Geoffrey Hag-
gard, the Alec Russell couple and the Keppel
Palmers were among those bidden.
The visiting Maoriland naval men found
welcome with jazz at Chastleton on Thursday-
night, directed by the young people’s com-
mittee of the E.-S.U. Mr. P. E. Potts and
Mrs. Potts, she in shimmering black uphol-
stery, extended official friendly hands in
greeting; and Lynette Young, robed in flesh-
tinted satin, was there in the usual capacity
of hon. secretary.
Melbourne Hospital Almoners’ Committee
will have its department of service going in
a couple of months’ time. Agnes Mclntyre,
in charge of the Northcote Trust attached to
St. Thomas’s Hospital, London, has been
engaged for a year to take over almsgiving
responsibilities here. It is expected that
she will organise a school at the hospital for
the instruction of volunteer assistants. Miss
Mclntyre has held important positions at
the London Almoners’ Institute as well as at
St. Thomas’s Hospital, and is joint author of
a report on hospital problems. The Orient
Co. is giving her a free first-class passage to
Australia. The Almoners’ Department sup-
plements hospital service by caring for con-
valescent patients and taking charge oi
patients’ homes, if necessary.


EXCLUSIVE
MING
SPECIAL VALUE
DIAMONDCIRCLERINGS
FROM £(5150
NS
DIAMONDS
DIAMONDS
DIAMONDS
\ V - //
HO 5
La t?Z
o'^
Drummond’s Diamond and Gem completely
fulfil the most exacting demands rightly attaching
to the purchase of the finest rin£s procurable.
Speaking from an experience of over half a
century, the firm invite you to expect of their rin&s
a Quality, a Superiority of Workmanship, and an
Individuality that can be found in no other rin£s.
Drummond’s rin&s are the supreme combination
of all of these characteristics, and a true reflection
of more than fifty years of specialised effort to
evolve the most beautiful rin&s that ca*h be made.
WM-DMUMMONB & CO.
SB
HOUSE FOR FINE QUALITY
AND PEARLS
344-346 COLLINS ST. MELBOURNE
mm
am
■f-7
•:-m
m
V.v
E&:
M
m
■■■:
M
?3g
u
/
r\
WARM ROOMS
and HOT BATHS
Winter comfort demands more than the provision of heat in the
living-rooms only
Warm bedrooms, bathrooms, lounges and business-rooms are also
necessary during the bleak months. Hot Water at all times is also
a daily necessity.
IDEAL CLASSIC WARMING
Provides warm rooms and hot baths at
little more cost for fuel than an
ordinary kitchen range.
ALL FROM ONE FIRE
Cheaper than open fires, gas or electricity.
A user states: “I maintain a hot-water supply in two bathrooms
and a big kitchen at less than three shillings per week for fuel.”
The only system for Hotels, Clubs, Country Homes, Boarding-houses,
Flats, Golf and Tennis Clubs, etc.
Write jor particulars and Free Booklet.
JOHN DANKS &SON PTY.LTD.
324-330
PITT STREET,
SYDNEY
mm
391-403
EOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE
w
MAGAZINE
4
w
BUY
and
READ
Steele
Rudd’s
New
Magazine
VOL. I, NO. 1
JUST
ISSUED
THE BEST
Shilling' Mag'azine
Look out for it on all Railway
and Ferry Bookstalls.
An All-Australian Magazine
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
CASTLEREAGH & MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY
A NEW ERA IN BROADCASTING
TWO BIG EVENTS
for the month of July
NATIONAL BROADCASTING SERVICE
COMES ON THE AIR
Hagnavox.
DYNAMIC LOUD SPEAKERS
LOWER PRICE ANNOUNCED
Enabling every listener-in to
receive better programmes
in the home with a
DYNAMIC SPEAKER
*
“Your Radio pleasure depends on the Speaker ”
Units only
from
£5/15/-
INSIST ON HAVING
MAGNAVOX
WITH THE SET YOU BUY.
Cabinet Models
from
Obtainable from All Radio Dealers


Under
Royal
.Warrant
ŵ
ToH.M.
GeorgeV
i
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
n
F 3
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
CMAMPACKS
Qiarl£sHcidsie*>
Reims
PELLISSOIM
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrer ts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
ust a Moment from Everywhere
The Wentworth —Australia’s most efficiently-managed hotel
—is handy to theatres, shops and banks—yet delight-
fully situated away from the noise and roar of the city.
Personally conducted by Mrs. H. Maclurcan, Governing
Director, it is the centre of all smart gatherings, and the
Mecca of visitors who appreciate comfort, convenience
and excellence in cuisine.
Wire or write your reservations.
ẁ
Hi!
ft
lull
ill
JO
rH
ẃ
AUSTRALIA'S
HOTEL DE-LUXE
52 MacleaySt.
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT
(Located within the City boundary, seven
minutes from G.P.0 .)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 150 Rooms, is now open and
features Two-, Three- and Four-
room Suites, each with Bath; also
Single and Double Rooms. Central
Heating, Running Water and
’Phones installed in each room.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views.
Weekly inclusive tariff,
from £5/5/-
Daily, from
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines) ; Tele-
graphic address: “Fifmac,” Syd-
ney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
SLIPPER
HEEL
SILK HOSIERY
This Letter listened the other day to the
gospel of the Spring Styles according to
the high-priests of fashion. Tailor-mades in
lightweight tweeds and kashas of cloud-like
pinks and blues are to be a feature of the
next few months. They are such a sensible
bridging of the difference between mid-
winter heavyweight and the flimsies of mid-
summer that race-going Sydney should take
kindly to them. One kasha suit was in blot-
ting-paper pink, its coat reaching to the hem
of the skirt. Beside it was a mannish Cum-
berland-tweed in greenish blues, to be worn
over a jumper and skirt in the same tones.
Near by a kasha three-piece as blue as a
lobelia smiled at the severity of its cut.
In these costumes wool crepella, silk
alpaca, frisca and wool crepe de Chine
recur constantly in the most delicate shades
of fawn, mushroom-pink and grey; they
convey the romantic quality of such old
styles as the highwayman’s cape and the
waist-slimming basque, without the quan-
tity that went to the making of those gar-
ments in days beyond McCall.
Blue has never been expressed in so
many demi-semi tones. The sky and every
bit of horticulture that blooms beneath it,
and the Pacific in its tenderest moods, have
•been transmuted into dyes for chiffon, lace,
satin, velvet and cloth. The .dress-designer
has given them the sea-names of many
foreign waters: Adriatic, Mediterranean,
Lido and so on. But the untravelled in
Sydney may sweep them all in on some
summer’s day at the cost of a ferry fare.
Scarlet and cardinal red, too, are front-
rankers once more. They are used largely
with black. A black evening frock is
sashed or draped with the brilliance. One
which caught the fancy was of the rich new-
old silk Gros de Londres. It was quite plain
and made to follow the figure till just about
the knees, where it suddenly flared by means
of cunningly placed godets. The scarlet
sash with its bow was of the same heavy
silk as the black weave in the frock. A
day-time two-piece that emphasised the
charm of red had its gay little frock com-
posed of flower-spattered crepe de Chine in
which navy and yellow, red and beige slid
and chimed with one another. This frock
ran from a clerical collar to a closely
pleated fishwife skirt. The coat was of red
wool crepella, its collar of black satin
finished with a soft arty bow of the black,
its cuffs cut in the episcopal manner and of
the black satin. The whole seemed a com-
plicated compliment to St. Peter —a sort
of fishers-of-men idea.
While there are flares on everything, there
is a cunning slinkiness about all. This comes
from the fitting quality of the garments.
Coats are worn with whatever you like.
They are hip-length or knee-length and they
are woollen, silk, cotton, or chiffon to match
the frocks, many of which are sleeveless.
Waxed lace replaces Cire lace, and an ex-
quisite leaf-brown and another sapphire-blue
tailor-made model were at once clean-cut as
to line and seductive as to cobwebby fabric.
Yellows run from the palest primrose to
the deepest orange; but if you want to be
really fashionable you wear the tone that
is known as Capuchin. But yellow is
meant only for the clear of skin. One chif-
fon day-dress looked like a field of buttercups
in bloom ; and a pale yellow chiffon evening
frock delicately patterned with blue-green
vegetation, and fashioned with handkerchief-
points like newly-opened fronds, suggested a
ferny glade in filtering sunlight. There are
greens from absinthe to caterpillar.
One of the nicest evening frocks seen in
the thick soft silk that suggests the looms
of old Spitalfields looked like a specially
luscious Granny Smith with raindrops on it.
This had its fullness about the knee-line, and
was delicately sprayed with diamente. Knees,
by the way, have gone in. Spring skirts
are quite an inch nearer the Earth than our
winter garment of repentance; though, of
course, really fashionable knees haven’t
been on view after six in the evening for
quite a long time.
The cold in the Town Hall remains in-
exorable. This Letter sat beside a woman
at the last Giannini concert who wore
thick shoes, gaiters, a woollen jumper and a
top coat and was furthermore 'warmed by a
rug. Rugs, indeed, are the popular wear
for the concerts in the civic barn. One day
a great dress-designer will leap to fame and
affluence by exhibiting “a Town Hall outfit,”
and it will be a cross between a ski-ing cos-
tume and the morning dress of an Antarctic
explorer. Even the girls on the platform
seats now cover their legs with rugs, and
the vice-regal ladies twist an ermine or fox
necklet about their knees while they park
their toes almost on the cone of the
radiator supplied by the management.
There still are some youths in Sydney who
keep their heads. It is a flapper who tells
this story. At an under-21 party the guests
began to talk about cocaine. After a while
somebody said, “Wouldn’t it be fun to try
one sniff!” Presently everybody began to
think the same. Then somebody suggested
that Arthur, whp had a friend in a chemist’s
shop, should pop out and bring back enough
for one round. With a good deal of hesita-
tion Arthur consented, and after a somewhat
unreasonable time returned. He produced,
with great secrecy, a small packet of minute
white tablets, and explained that owing to
police precautions the stuff was not avail-
able as infections or “snow,” but in this
form might be swallowed. The packet held
one pellet for each guest. With squawks
and squeaks the things were swallowed. In
10 minutes everybody began to eye neighbors
for signs of excitation. Arthur asked each
one solicitously, “Do you feel any effects
yet?” One girl thought she did, but wasn’t
quite sure. To everybody’s disgust the party
passed off like all other parties. But by
five in the morning—well, Arthur had handed
his playfellows a lesson according to his
lights, and had passed calomel around.
At last week’s gathering of the Institute
of Journalists Rear-Admiral Evans and his
wife sat as unmoved as penguins on an ice-
floe while Sydney pressmen and -women
looked towards them shyly or openly in
admiration. But only in their gaze-proof
unconsciousness did the good-looking pair
resemble the birds of the ice fields. Neither
did the Admiral on his feet at speech time
resemble an oyster. He has a flow of words
equal to that of his brothe.r Welshman, Wil-
liam Morris Hughes, or of Miss Preston
Stanley. He was so breezy and cheery and
complimentary that one felt if he hadn’t been
an Admiral he’d have made his mark in.
politics, despite his protest that “most of us
prefer to ride on the back-seat to driving the
waggon ourselves.”
This Letter nominates Mabel Grant Cooper
as the most voluminous letter-writer in her
State. She
writes letters
every day for
her living in
the Local Gov-
ernment office,
and her spare
time is absorb-
ed in . writing
letters to the
boy- settlers
who come to
N. S. Wales
under the
D r eadnought
scheme and
register at the
Empire Ser-
vice Club. As
many as 100
letters a month
to these mostly
lonely and
g e n e r h lly
homesick new
Australians the sympathetic girl pens. She
has been at the job now for six years—
ever since Dr. Mary Booth started the
Empire Service Club, whose objective' at its
birth was the settling of the sons of English
soldiers in the Land of the Better Chance.
Now the club’s guest-list includes the boys
brought out under the Dreadnought scheme
and many Little Brothers. But the last-
named are so well looked after that very
few letters from them creep into the post-
bag. Soldiers have appealed to Mabel Grant
Cooper since as a small girl she lit the
candles on the first Christmas tree in the
Soldiers’ Club. Quietly throughout the year
she works for sick and disabled Diggers, and
is never absent from the Auzac Day reunion
tea in the Town Hall. She is given many
a strange commission. One Digger who had
evidently met with a few cobbers whis-
pered to her last year: “Say. since I saw
you last my wife has died.” “Oh, I’m, sorry
for that,” she was replying, when the Digger
hurried on: “And I was thinking of applying
for another to the Widows’ Association”....
But at that point the tea-urn needed atten-
tion. May Moore made the picture.
Funny how the girl who has to sharpen
her teeth every morning to bite off a job in
the city, or to make her grip the tighter
if she already has one, fascinates the young
woman whose father’s bank-roll wraps her
in ease. The woman at home wants to
sample everything that is toiling sister’s
daily food. Once the stage held first place
in her aspirations. Now the mannequin,
probably owing to the beauteous creature
of musical comedy, is the object of imitation.
Last week, therefore, in the auditorium on
the seventh floor of David Jones’s, a group of
Sydney’s society girls paraded in the ad-
vance spring fashions for the delectation of
friend and foe alike. Jessie Tait and Mrs.
Cohen organised this passing show, which
benefited the Kindergarten Union.
In the company were Dorothy Tait, Betty
Willsallen, Mrs. Edward Keep, Mrs. L. W.
Cohen and othei’s who figure among the
city’s well-dressed. This Letter particularly
liked (1) a poke hat in navy baku banded
in white; (2) the navy kid shoes worn by
Mrs. W. Arnott to emphasise a two-piece
in white with navy-spot foulard that had its
three-quarter coat bordered in red coin spots,
and had a skirt of box-pleated white satin;
(3) a green chiffon frock that swept down
and out at the back (this style always
makes one looker-on think of pre-war child-
ren playing ladies) and wore a spray of green
flowers on long golden stems drooping from
one shoulder; and (4) a parchment moire
dance frock spattered with tight posies and
worn with parchment crepe de Chine shoes.
Ernest Long, who gives a farewell recital
at the Con. on July 31, has the talent and
determination that go to the making of a
great artist.
He first stud-
ied the violin
at Sydney
Con., then
went to Paris
and studied
under T li i-
baud at the
school run by
him, Cortot
and Cazals.
In this centre
for students
from the world
over the Syd-
ney boy was
the only Aus-
tralian. Some-
time ago the
youth return-
ed to Sydney
and quietly set
about garner-
ing funds for
further study by taking a job in an orches-
tra. After the concert, at which such stars
as Frank Hutchens, Constance Burt and
James Walker will scintillate, he will gather
up his toothbrush and his shekels and head
towards Paris again.
The ball of the Old Newingtonians was
a specially heady brew' this year in view of
the fact that the Stanmore college will
shortly celebrate its jubilee. They rolled up
to the Ambassadors from far and wide, and
the original wyvern of the college left its
academic perch for the first time and flapped
its wings on the wind of jazz. On the
official table, hosted by President Glasgow
and Mrs. Glasgow, was a model of the com-
plete Newington, done half a century ago ;
for many years it has been the property of
Colonel Alfred Spain, who has just given it
to the O.N.U. Henceforth the clubrooms
in Hamilton-street will proudly house it.
Blue and gold garnished the Palais at
every turn the other night when 2000 dancers
found their way out to Moore Park. Blue-
aud-gold streamers, blue-and-gold flowers and
an impressive blue-and-gold crest over the
official table were added to the Palais’ cus-
tomary kickshaws and gilt intricacies. In
keeping with the size of the Waverley College
Ball, the committee was 100 strong, and
the debs, no fewer than 40. Lady de Chair,
who had brought her Viking and the Long
field Lloyds, toned in with the decoration
scheme in sapphire-blue chiffons. One of
the night’s sartorial achievements was worn
by handsome Mrs. Arthur McNiven, wffio
presented the debs.; it was of georgette and
lace in the new parchment pink, and its back
flowed off into sweeping unevenness. Acting-
Premier Buttenshaw put in an appearance:
and Agnes Moran, the secretary, was one of
the night’s most-importants.
Seats were as scarce as in a peak-hour
Railway tram at the preliminary meeting of
the International Ball. Maybe this show
of wild enthusiasm in the work of the
League of _ Nations Union was due to the
meeting being held at Government House;
anyway, the ballroom was as tightly packed
as a barrel of herrings by the time Lady de
Chair was announced. All the consuls and
their wives were front-seaters. Last year,
it was recalled with a blush, Britain and
Australia didn’t turn up, but this September
Mrs. J. C. Leete and Mrs. A. McNiven are
seeing that they do. The Palais always
provides the setting for this spectacular
event, which has Leonie Bond for organising
secretary.
Giant pilot’s wings carried out in red
geraniums and two shades of blue del-
phiniums soared above the ballroom at David
Jones’s the other night. The occasion was
the Aero Club’s Ball, and the wings were
its floral emblem. Hopping off between the
wings was a red kangaroo on a blue back-
ground. The aeroplane in miniature appeared
on tables and on programmes, the flowers
bloomed red and blue, and uniforms of the
R.A.F. added to the color. Mrs. J. E. Terry,
who is expecting any minute now a brand-
new ’plane from England, drove a busy quill
as secretary for the ball. Other lady-birds
interested were treasurer Mrs. A. M. Upfold
and the Misses Follett, Arnott and Deaton.
Mrs. . Geoffrey Hughes was president, and
wore one of those new big hip-bows on her
rose-pink satin, while the heels of her slippers
sparkled with the white fire of rhinestones.
Air Commodore Williams and Mrs. Williams
were at the party, and Squadron-Leader
Hempel, of the Albatross.
In 1932 one hundred years will have
passed since the King’s School, at Parra-
matta, had its first pupil. Old Boys of the
continent’s oldest public seminary are busy
building up a Centenary Fund and the
shekels and pieces of four from their dance
last week are to add to the hoard. The
object seems popular, for over 600 turned
up at the Ambassadors. Pale blue and white
tied up the stairway to the Palm Court, and
the skyey blue of the school flag struck a
spirited note above the official table. Here
sat president of the union Macartney
Abbott and Mrs. Abbott, her white chiffons
wrapped in a golden cloak, headmaster Brit-
ten (acting in Morgan Baker's absence) and
his lady in filmy black raiment. At the
same board sat representatives of every other
G.P.S. in the city, the place of each indicated
by streamers in his own school’s colors.
Mere males were responsible for the arrange-
ments, as they have been for a decade or so.
The credit this year goes to B. B. O’Conor,
W. S. Friend, C. B. Sutherland and J. W.
Houston.
There’s a mellow geniality about the
dances of the Millions Club. An aura of good
food and good cigars and good nature wraps
the members about; and when Sir Dudley
de Chair arrived at the Ambassadors the
other night about nine o’clock with Major
Longfield Lloyd, he slipped at once into the
easy friendliness of the yearly dinner-dance.
Rear-Admiral Evans and Mrs. Evans were
guests of honor. President Arthur Itickard
and his lady did the honors at the official
table. The Dean of Sydney and his wife,
her green frock a contrast to her red-gold
hair, sat with the A. C. Godhards, who are
again trimming their sails for Europe.
Last year the Pioneer Club gave a mixed
party. Woman, having thus wedged her
foot vyathin the Phillip-street doorway, de-
cided that once a year at least the rooms
and St. James’s Hall next door were good
for a dance. Last Friday, even as Father
Noah might have benignantly welcomed the
guests who two by two sought his door,
so president Kelso King welcomed the guests
who, male and female, swept friendlywise
upon him and his lady. Olive Kelso King
stood by in black velvet lit with diamente,
and daughter Hazel looked like a promise
of spring in her yellows and greens.
Mention of the Ark reminds this Letter
of a small boy who inquired the other day
if it was the bees in the Ark that made the
very ancient archives his daddy had been
talking about.
After the tumult and the shouting of
Polo Week had died, Barbara Littlejohn
celebrated her coming of age and her en-
gagement with a dance in her home at
Darling Point. Hall and dining-room were
used for dancing, and in a marquee on the
lawn the creamy foodstuffs of such occa-
sions were served in a cool atmosphere—the
night felt as though it had been kept on
ice since the Nansen expedition. Mrs.
Littlejohn turned out in lilac satin worked
in green and gold; Barbara wore flouncy
white chiffons, and sister Patricia’s frock
was of palest green.
Well, the Suttor-Sturt alliance was accom-
plished at St. John’s in Darlinghurst without
so much as an orange-bud. The bride, Gwen
Suttor, wore a wool crepe de Chine ensemble
in delphinium-blue, collared and cuffed in
grey fur, and carried a sheaf of daffodils.
She suffered no aftermath of reception, hav-
ing had her wedding party at the Ambassa-
dors the day before. The new Mrs. Rex
Sturt and her husband just drove to the
Wentworth, where they stayed till Saturday’s
boat bore them to a honeymoon in Brisbane.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite has been
suffering from the prolonged visit to town
of a rich but very careful uncle. Last week,
to her surprise, he asked her to lunch in a
fashionable restaurant. However, training
triumphed over impulse, and he ordered the
cheapest dishes on the menu, with some slices
of brown bread and butter (“to hypnotise
me into believing we’d had oysters,” his
guest thought grimly). Wheu the brown
bread and butter came she declined it. “Oh.
you prefer the rolls?” said Uncle. “Yes,’'
replied his niece. “I always feel that if I
stick to the rolls the Royce may be added
some day!”
Douglas Dundas, the dark-headed youth
who won the 1927 travelling scholarship, has
blossomed into matrimony. He has met and
married in England Sheila McEachern, of
Melbourne. Douglas was a discovery of
Elioth Gruner* and on that artist’s recom-
mendation came from the New England dis-
trict to study art in Sydney. To keep him-
selL while he was doing it, Douglas took a
job with a big drapery firm. Even there
his artistic qualities couldn’t escape notice,
and the dressing of the show-cases became
part of his daily work.
"Paradise Plumes,” “The Bulletin’s”
fascinating New Guinea Serial, starts
July 31. Illustrated by Townshend.


ẅ


Patents.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 5295/26, in respect of an invention
entitled “Means for preventing excess voltages
when opening a continuous current circuit
containing inductances,” is prepared to
negotiate for the sale of his rights m the
above, or for the granting of a license to
make, use and vend the invention within
the Commonwealth of Australia on reason-
able terms. Particulars obtainable trom
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorneys, of
77 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 1821/16, in respect of an invention
entitled “Method of preserving a state of
fluid pressure in tennis balls or other objects
containing fluid under pressure,” is prepared
to negotiate for the sale of his r ghts in the
above, or for the granting of a license to
make, use and vend the invention within
the Commonwealth of Australia on reason-
able terms. Particulars obtainable from
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorneys, of
77 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN REFRIGERAT-
ING CABINET.
r THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
* No. 19128/24 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use and
vend the invention within the Common-
ealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith &
Hassel, Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney.
UNIT FOR REFRIGERATING
APPARATUS.
TTHE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 3452/26 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith &
Hassel, Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney.
w HAIR
{L»
w
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
SfrcULms CMEXICAN)
Vkdtud Staim,
’•REMOVES THE GREY *
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (j/6), 6d. being postage.
©
CONTACT
There was a time
when success was
largely influenced by
personal contact —
the business man
served his patrons in
person.
To-day the business
man serves a multi-
tude of patrons
whom he may never
see.
“TELEGRAPH”
BRISBANE, Q.,
is the ideal medium
of contact between
many a large concern
and its thousands of
customers a suc-
cessful medium,
winning respect and
business for its users.
TRY IT
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated undei the Companies Ait 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —Janies Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. liyan, Esq.;
f. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.U.
uknkkal Manaokr —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in i)ueen.-land and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Ranking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Rank olfers the fullest facilities for the Transaction of all general bat king business.
EUROPE’S
BEST RADIO
SHOW
ŵ
BETWEEN September 23
and October 3, the finest
radio show yet will be in
progress in London. Whether
you are a trader or just a
radio enthusiast you should
endeavor to see this wonder-
ful display of modern radio
equipment.
Full details sent to authorised
dealers on request to the organisers
&s>e N 4TIONAL
RADIO EXHIBITION
O L Y M PIA L O N D O N,
ENGLAND
September 23 to October 3.
Organised by
THE RADIO MANUFACTURERS’ ASSOCIATION, Astor House, Aldwych, London W.C. 2.
COWBOY
SADDLERY OUTFITS
V- \
t/’
T\-
■
pi mm
«H ;
THE
“TEXAS
RANGER
SADDLE,
£l3/13/-
No. 73. LEATHER
CHAPS, as illustrated,
with Nickel Conchas
and Fringe, 91/-. With-
out Conchas, 85/-
FANCY STUDDED
DR'DLE, with Gold
Color Cowboy Bit with
Nickel Horse-head, 73/-
Fancy Breastplate to match .... 75/-
Write for Catalogue of our Australian
and Texas Saddlery.
WALTHER 8 STEVENS')*!, LTD.,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ẁ
CIGARS
cMild, flavour
v kJ
At all rood hotels 4
and tobacconists I
Special box prices on request
Wholesale Distributors
CRAIG &AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
0
■ln Ladies Hands
:HERE is magic in the
'featherlike lightness of
a Shelley teacup. English
Bone China, made nowhere
but in a few square miles
in Staffordshire, and the
Shelley workers’ 75 years
of continuously inherited
craftsmanship are the secret
of this fairy loveliness. The
name of Shelley under every
piece guarantees genuineness
Ask to sec the latest
SHELLEY
Tea Sets - Nursery Ware
Coffee Sets- iy Lucie Attweu
Horning Sets c-Hilda Cowham
Dainty White DohesticWare
- China • Jelly Moulds
• RITIIH MADB
AMY DIFFICULTY IN OBTAINING
IM <A» OP
Grow New Hair
in 30 days
Six out of eight are bald or grey at 40, yet very
few need be. The hair roots can be stimulated to
new life very quickly by a new scalp-invigoratin:
preparation known as “Vi-Glo.” This acts on the
growth and color cells much as rain acts on a parched
plant. So long as the hair roots and color glands
are not dead (and they rarely die), “Vi-Glo” wil
show remarkable results, growing new, youthful hair
and restoring color to fading hair. Ask your chemist
for a 3/- package of “Vi-Glo” to-day, or send 3/4
for outfit to Vi-Glorient Co., Kembla Building.
Sydney. Satisfaction guaranteed.
ẃ
ẅ
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PIUCE ' , 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to knot


w
LEIPZIG TRADE FAIR (Twice Yearly), GERMANY
Great International-Leipzig Industries Fair, AUTUMN, 1929.
Samples Fair and Engineering Fair and Building Fair.... August 26 to 31
Textile Fair August 25 to 28
Shoe and Leather Fair August 25 to 28
Subsequently another big Leipzig International Industries Fair will be held
in Spring, 1930, beginning on March 2, 1930. Letters of introduction and all
particulars gladly given.
Authorised Representatives:
LABS BRUNDAHL, 6 Dailey Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
G. N. EEPPEL, C/o Marcard Lund & Co., Melbourne, Victoria.
Accom m odation
160.
Central,
Comfortable,
Convenient,
5 Mts. G.P.O.
Excellent
Cuisine,
Billiards,
Dancing.
ORIENTAL HOTEL
(No License)
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
TARIFF:
•Weekly,
£3/3/- to
£4/4/-
Daily,
11/6 to 12/6.
Room & B’fast,
8/6 to 9/6
FL2034
F 3575
MAKING MONEY WORK AT
FULL CAPACITY.
HOW HIGH YIELDS ARE OBTAINED
WITH SAFETY.
Few subjects are mose closely related
to our material welfare than that of the
profitable investment of Savings. Many
people find themselves handicapped through
a lack of experience of business and financial
methods, and individual action in many cases
has resulted in heavy investment losses.
For many years the wealthy investors of
England and Scotland have surmounted such
difficulties by placing their funds under the
skilled management of Investment Trust
Companies, a financial device for spreading
Investment risks over a wide field, and other-
wise obtaining a high yield with complete
safety in the outlay of their funds.
The general body of Australian Investors
is now offered the opportunity of obtaining
a high yield with complete safety by opening
an Investment Savings account with The
Australian Investment Trust, of 17 O Con-
nell Street, Sydney. These accounts bear
interest at the rate of 4% p.c. per annum, and
may be built up by easy instalment payments
spread over two years. The funds may be
ultimately converted into holdings in the
capital of the Trust, for which purpose a
large number of Trust Shares are to be
reserved at their par value. The number
of these accounts is limited, and those who
desire to obtain a high yield with safety
are advised to write immediately for full
inf or ma tion. —Advt.
The Flax Corporation
r- —of Australia-
This Corporation has been established
to develop within the Commonwealth
the linen-flax and linseed industry.
In Tasmania farmers have contracted
to grow over 1600 acres of flax this
season. Last year they grew 150
acres, the year before 87 acres, and
the year before that 8 acres.
This is definite proof of what farmers
think of the industry.
Australian oil factors require immense
supplies of linseed, all of which comes
from foreign countries.
Owing to the use of modern, eco-
nomical and effective machinery, flax
products can be profitably manufac-
tured within the Commonwealth.
Owing to the elimination of “middle”
industries, the whole of the profits
of the industry, which in Europe
are divided between six industries,
are shared under these proposals
only by the farmers and the Corpo-
ration.
Ordinary business profits can thus
be made extraordinarily large.
If you are interested in any way,
write for information.
Victorian Representative: J. P. SAGE,
435 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland Representatives: Messrs.
CULLEN, WARD & PHILLIPS,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
R. A. F. SUTTON, Secretary.
Head Office: 22 Paterson Street,
Launceston, Tasmania.
INVINCIBLE
ŵ
INVINCIBLE MARINE MOTORS
The UJorlUs Best since /906
TEN POPULAR MODELS
AN ENGINE
FOR EVERY TYPE OF 80/XT
CLU spare parts alurays available
INVINCIBLE MOTORS UNITED
53 North George Sir. SYDNEY.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Amusements,
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE DESERT
SONG, »
ROYAL: THE FLYING SQUAD.
CRITERION: THE PERFECT ALIBI.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
A NIGHT OUT.
ROYAL:
SIR HARRY LAUDER.
ING ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT,
THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER,
I_To YT’S D E LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
FOR AN EXTENDED SEASON,
The Sensational Sound Picture,
SUBMARINE.
Also see and hear
CLARKE and McCULLOGH in
BENEATH THE LAW,
100 PER CENT. ALL TALKIE COMEDY.
Legal Notices.
T-HOMAS WILLIAMS Deceased who died
on the 16th day of February 1927.
PURSUANT to a Decretal Order of the
Supreme Court of New South Wales in
Equity dated the second day of December
1927 and made in a Suit (No. 4623 of 1927)
intituled “In the matter of the Estate of
Thomas Williams late of Ryde in the State
of New South Wales Brickmaker Deceased
Intestate between PERMANENT TRUS-
TEE COMPANY OF NEW SOUTH
WALES LIMITED Plaintiff and MARY
WILLIAMS and the ATTORNEY-GEN-
ERAL for the State of New South Wales
Defendants” WHEREBY the following
inquiry was directed viz.: “That it be re-
ferred to the Master in Equity to inquire as
to who are the persons (if any) entitled to
share in the intestate estate of the above-
named Thomas Williams Deceased as next of
kin.”
NOTICE is hereby given that all persons
claiming to be entitled under the said inquiry
are to send by post prepaid to Messrs.
VINDIN & LITTLEJOHN Solicitors of
25 O’Connell Street Sydney in the State
of New South Wales so as to reach them on
or before the 25th day of October next their
full Christian and surnames addresses and
descriptions and full particulars of their
claims or in default thereof they will be
excluded from the benefit of the said Order
unless the Court or a Judge thereof or the
Master in Eouity on application otherwise
orders CLAIMANTS are to attend person-
ally or by their Solicitors before the Master
in Equity Supreme Courthouse Elizabeth
Street Sydney on Tuesday the 29th day of
October 1929 at eleven o’clock in the fore-
noon being-the time'appointed for adjudicating
upon the claims A claimant not residing
in New South Wales must send with par-
ticulars of his claim the name and address
of a person in Sydney to whom notices to
the claimant can be sent.
DATED this ninth day of July, 1929.
W. A. PARKER,
Master in Equity.
VINDIN & LITTLEJOHN,
Solicitors for the Plaintiff,
25 O’Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
V-/
A high-grade pencil which
never needs sharpening.
Prices, 7/6 upwards.
SOLO BY STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS.
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern Is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Mayor Jolly lent the City Hall for the
Rotary Club’s shivoo, and the Governor and
Lady Goodwin, Premier Moore and his wife
and the Mayor and Mrs. Jolly were official
guests. President and Mrs. li. C. Hancock
received the throng, Mrs. Hancock in Spanish
red mariette embossed with silver beads and
rhinestones. Mrs. Stanley Chapman, presi-
dent of the Bush Book Club, sent a posy
to Mrs. Hancock in recognition of what the
Rotarians have done for the club. Red,
white and blue decorated a large room, where
there was dancing Under strings of electric
lights. The supper-room was decked with
flags and a trellis bearing roses and rose-
shaded lights. Lady Goodwin wore a black
sequinned frock covered by a musquash fur
coat with skunk collar. Mrs. Hancock
presented her with a bouquet of Toowoomba
violets tied in blue and gold. Mrs. Moore
was attired in petal-pink with silver lace.
A posy of wine-hued sweet peas tied with
blue and gold was given to her. Mrs. Blair
was in rose ninon, hand-painted with leaves.
Mrs. Jolly wore pink with a maple-brown
caracul. cloth coat, to which was added a
posy of pink roses and sweet peas, the gift
of the Rotarians. Mrs. de Witt Batty wore
mauve; Mrs. Cecil Palmer, blue and silver
brocade and a blue cashmere shawl; Mrs.
Norman White, turquoise blue, studded with
rhinestones; Mrs. J. W. Davidson, black
mariette, sprinkled with silver; Beryl White,
tea-rose mariette; Marion Hancock, powder-
blue ; Mrs. Peter Macgregor, black ring
velvet and an Oriental scarf; Audrey Her-
ring, black ninon liand-painted with flowers,
and Clarice White, ivory mariette.
The Goodwins went to the dance in the
South Brisbane City Hall, staged to benefit
the Villa Maria fund of the Sistei’s of Per-
petual Adoration. Large rustic baskets of
yellow poppies swung overhead, and there
were canopied streamers of electric blue and
gold. The stage was dressed up as an arbor,
with gum-tips, poppies and painted butter-
flies. One end of the hall was a lounge,
screened with rustic arches and decked in
golden poppies. Large flags enclosed the
verandahs, and the supper-room decorations
were roses and poinsettia, with wattle and
ribbon twined round the pillars. Premier
and Mrs. Moore, the Tedmans and Colonel
Cameron were there. Lady Goodwin wore a
moonlight-blue sequinned frock and Joan
Casey presented her with a bunch of roses.
Mrs. Moore was in red and gold and Mrs.
Tedman chose biscuit-brown lace.
Andrea and Bess Hawkins gave a dance
in the Hamilton Town Hall. Black and
orange was the color scheme in the dance
hall, and pink streamers, roses, and African
daisies decked the supper-room. Mrs. Haw-
kins wore black mariette. Andrea Hawkins
was in Oriental tissue and her sister in
lemon georgette.
The Premier and Mrs. Moore gave a fare-
well luncheon at the Cecil to E. H. Macart-
ney, our new Agent-General, and his wife.
Mrs. Moore wore navy-blue satin beaute with
touches of gold and fox furs. Her hat was
of beige straw. Mrs. Macartney, who was
presented with a boomerang made of Too-
woomba violets, was in navy-blue satin, a
black velour hat and marmot choker. Crystal
vases of sweet peas and bowls of gum-tips
decked the lounge, wffiere lunch was served.
A silver bowl, recently presented to Mrs.
Moore by the electors of Queensland, was the
centre-piece. Iceland poppies and posies of
violets also figured in the decorations.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA..
Adelaide.
Bleak weather detracted from the pleasure
of the Adelaide Hunt Club’s winter meeting
at the Cheltenham course. The Governor and
Lady Hore-Ruthven were there, accompanied
by their son and his grandmother, the Hon.
Mrs. Barry; they were entertained at lunch-
eon and afternoon tea by president E. A.
Brooks and Mrs. Brooks. There were several
hundred other guests at afternoon tea. Lady
Hore-Ruthven wore a marmot fur coat over
her tailored suit, with a wine-colored felt
hat —the first time she has donned fur at
an Adelaide outdoor gathering.
The Old Scholars of the Tech. College held
their dance in the Freemasons’ Hall. The
S. Moyles (he is headmaster) and the G.
Haskards received.
The colleges are snapping up all the
Friday nights for dances. Scotch, Christian
Brothers, St. Peter’s Girls and Woodlands
Girls are prominent in the rush for that
favored night.
At the Movie Ball there were transparent
watch-towers round the ballroom in multi-
colored cubist designs. Many stars were
represented; Lance Morgan won a prize for
his representation of John Gilbert in “The
Cossacks.” Mrs. F. Ward won the lucky bou-
quet prize, a moonstone necklace. Effective
sets came from the different picture-theatres.
The. flowers were sold in the interests of the
School for Mothers, and sellers got rid of
all their wares.
Button Day for the relief of distress
was very successful; money being scarce,
the price of the button was reduced to six-
pence. Mrs. Lavington Bonython is an inde-
fatigable worker in the cause; she devotes
the early hours of the morning to personally
supervising the distribution of the Lord
Mayor’s Relief Fund.
Ladies’ week at Kooyonga links was at-
tended with indifferent weather. Last season’s
champion, Mrs. Herbert Rymill, was beaten.
On this occasion she was without the moral
support of her son, now- en route for Eng-
land with the Boy Scouts; with the lad she
won the doubles championship last year.
W. A. A. West, dead in Adelaide, was
estate manager for the Tennants and the
Hawkers, and also had pastoral interests
of his own. A great horseman, he was a
power at the Agricultural Society’s shows
and in the Amateur Turf Club, He rode
and trained the riding-horse Erskine, whicn
was presented by South Aus. to King George.
The old home of C. C. Kingston, on the sea
cliffs at Brighton, near Adelaide, is now a
“hostel,” with the grounds a picnic reserve.
It has been in informal use. for several
years, but a proper road to it, only just
opened, now* gives it full value. The old place
connects back with South Australia’s founda-
tion days, for G. S. Kingston, father of the
future statesman, was Light’s second-in-com-
mand in laying out the city of Adelaide.
WE STB ALIA.
Perth.
Dr. Walter Seed is back in Perth from
Britain, where he completed his medical
studies. He is a son of the Dr. Pope Seed
who was Perth’s medical officer for many
years and had a fine Coolgardie practice in
the roaring days of the fields.
Centenary dances are all the go. Fremantle
had a big one recently, and debs, were
numerous and pretty. Mr. and Mrs. Gibson,
the Mayor and Mayoress, did the honors;
he used to be M.L.A. for Fremantle, and
was an unsuccessful candidate for the House
of Iteps. in November.
The Naval and Military Ball is to be one
of the events of an historic season. It is
to be held at the Fremantle Naval Depot on
the 19th, and the gubernatorial Campions
are going.
Miss Georgie Trumble arrived from Lon-
don by the Ormonde the other day and was
married the same day to L. G. Walker, of
Perth. She is a daughter of J. W. Trumble,
secretary to the High Commissioner and
previously secretary of the Defence Depart-
ment.
Mrs. William Watson, wife of the former
M.H.R. for Fremantle, is to spend the rest
of the winter in Sydney: Mr. Watson is
over there now. The Watsons are very
charitable folk, and are idolised in ■ Fre-
mantle.
The friends of Mr. Charles Diamond, Perth
manager of the Commercial Bank—and he
numbers his friends by the hundred—looked
grave when they heard that he had gone
into hospital to undergo an operation.. He
came through very well, but it will be some
time before his cheerful face is seen on the
Terrace again.
The recent death of Mr. Andrew Pike at
Nedlands has removed one of the oldest
native-born Canberraites —he was 74. He
retired to the West five years ago. His
wife, who survives him, was also born near
Canberra. Her mother, Mrs. Margaret
Young, came to Australia in the sailing-ship
Margaret in 1841, and left Sydney for Lan-
yon, near Canberra, by bullock-team; sfie
lived thereabouts until her death in 1925, aged
99, leaving seven children, 66 grandchildren,
76 great-grandchildren and three great-great-
grandchildren.
The Music-teachers’ Association had Prof.
Ross as principal speaker at the guest even-
ing held in the Karrakatta Club. The prof,
traced the development of the cinema, with
screen picture illustrations and diagrams,
and the mysteries of the spoken film were
unfolded in non-technical terms. At the
close of the address Ada Rosenbrock and
Edgar Chambers played a duo for two
pianos, followed by an Elgar sonata by Mrs.
Birt and Mr. Bowles. Daisy Main sang, and
Gladys Orchard tapped the keys for the
Ravel “Pavanb.” Miss Young received.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Freda Elliott, pictured here, is one of the
Speck’s most
promising
young singers.
At the Laun-
ceston compe*
ti 1 1 on s she
captured eight
out of nine
first prizes and
a second, and
a d j u dicator
Fritz Hart,
of the Albert-
street (Melb.)
Con., praised
her highly.
She holds the
Ass o c i a t e d
Boards’ gold
medal, and she
has made an
a u s p i cious
first appear-
ance at a
Hobart Orches-
tral Society concert.
St. Patrick’s College ball made a red mark
on the calendar for the northern capital’s
dancing folk. The youngsters had the floor
from seven o’clock till nine; then their big
brothers and sisters took possession of the
Albert Hall. His Ex. and Margaret O’Grady
came along, Margaret in black lace with a
rhinestone-clasp at the waistline. Mayoress
D. Osborne also wore black. Elvie Quigley
was secretary.
The new Children’s Library promises to be
a great success. The books are judiciously
chosen and care is taken that the young
readers may learn how to treat their vol-
umes—a very necessary precaution nowa-
days,
Blanche Wylly and Daphne Clerk have left
the islet. Bridge and tea-parties, handker-
chief-teas, dances and so on kept the depart-
ing guests from brooding on their departure.
Miss Clerk is to be married to Mr. Gallo-
way soon after her arrival in Britain.
The Neil Smiths, who left Hobart for
Vancouver some months ago, send news of
daughter Lois’s engagement to H. R. Lillie,
A.M.1.C.E., of Dundee, Scotland.
Mrs. Edith Waterworth, representing the
Speck at the Women’s Congress at Berlin,
and also at the Conference of English-Speak-
ing peoples on maternal and child welfare
matters, writes that she has had an inter-
view with Dame Janet Campbell, who come?
to Australia this month to advise the Com-
monwealth Government how to reduce
maternal mortality. Mrs. Eccles Snowden
went with Mrs. Waterworth. interviewed
the Dame at the Ministry of Health, finding
her “an attractice and open-minded woman.”


Monday to 7riday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/-
Saturday, Late Hala Night.
Special Table d’HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 12/6; or
k la carte, minimum, 12/6
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
The Ambassadors New Delightful
Dance Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. Phone: M 4131.
22.
LOOKING AHEAD
Just looking ahead is easy.
There is always inspiration in contemplation of the futute,
for the least imaginative can dream.
It is the planning and the doing that demand sincerity
of purpose and practical application.
Do your planning with a Savings Account—make your
idle money work and earn for you, not only the benefit of
money saved, but the profit of interest earned.
A Commonwealth Savings Account will do that.
(Cbmmonwcaltb Savings JBank of Australia
(Guaranteed bv the Commonwealth Government).
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Ohnrgps are for Room Only. Ktiropean Plan.
■piniiwr Sorvioo a la, Carte
STRICTLY FTRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
I
Audreys Manager—
liGWiih, LTD.,
Cafe ami Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
THIS IS THE £500 FIRST-PRIZE NOVEL "A HOUSE IS BUILT," BY FLORA ELDERSHAW AND MARJORIE BARNARD,
ABRIDGED BY "THE BULLETIN" FOR SERIAL PUBLICATION.
THE QUARTERMASTER.
Norman Lindsay
u
Synopsis: Quartermaster James
Hyde leaves the service in ISSi) and
buys a combined store and dwelling
in Windmill-street, Sydney, near the.
harbor. His son, William, resents the
whaling shipper Captain Hildebrand
being treated as a family guest and
meeting his sisters, Fanny and Maud,
on terms of friendship. Fanny is
secretly deeply attracted 1o Hildebrand,
and is seriously shocked when, offei'ing
to elope with him, she is mocked
and rejected. Soon after Maud roman-
tically marries Humphrey Gillam, and
in the following years rears him
a large family. William had thought
the raw state of the young city
and the shopkeeping too degrading
for him to bring his fianede, Adcla, to
live there. She, however, voyages out
from England, and in the new home in
City-road, is, by 18J/1, the mother of
tico boys, James and Lionel. The
Quartermaster, William and Fanny
(who is virtually feminine head of the
City-road house) appropriate James
but rather ignore the younger boy, arid
Adcla secretly prays that she may be
allowed to have Liond as her own.
Business had reached a fairly low
ebb when the discovery of gold
enabled the Quartermaster to estab-
lish stores on the fields and icin a
fortune. He returns after six years
to find Sydney wonderfully grown. A
visit of Maud, with fire of h n r six
children, makes Fanny think back to
their early days and Hildebrand.
James, far the stronger of the two
boys, is about to be sent to boarding-
school; Lionel shows signs of artistic
talent, and continues the favorite of
his mother.
ẁ
not nearly good enough for us now, is it,
William?”
Such is the contrariety of human nature
that William, ashamed perhaps to have
his own feelings so crudely and indelicately
expressed, replied ungraciously enough:
“It has been good enough for us for many
years now, papa, and I do not know that
we have changed.”
“Of course we’ve changed,” said his father.
“You can’t make money like we’ve made it
and not change.”
The Quartermaster was as exuberant as
ever, and was heartily and unashamedly
proud of his success, of the fortune he had
accumulated and of the figure Hyde and
Son were cutting now in the business world.
He wanted to do something, to have some-
thing, to show his success in concrete and
tangible form both to himself and to the
world. The business was expanding steadily,
almost of its own accord. There was no
opening at the store for any new spectacular
undertaking that would blazon the triumphs
of Hyde and Son to the admiring world.
He must make such a gesture in his family
life. A fine new house, some good lavish
entertainments, would hit the mark. He
had outdistanced ol<j Gillam in the field of
business, for all the start he’d had. He’d
do it now in the social game, too. This
was another heritage they could create for
James the Second.
The Quartermaster saw no reason to be
ashamed of his desire for a little display,
and his open confession, or rather boast,
of this ambition was very trying to William,
whose great desire was to achieve social
position ■ and fashionable elegance while
creating even among themselves the illu-
sion that things had never been otherwise
with them. Yet how could he adopt this
accustomed attitude while his father openly
talked of the. splash they were going to
make?
But his annoyance wore off. The project
was too close to his heart for its accomplish-
ment to be marred by trivialities. He flung
lvmself energetically into the interminable
discussions which raged round the proposed
site of the new home.
Sydney had expanded so much during the
’fifties that many new suburbs had' grown
up and it was difficu't to choose between
their rival claims. Maud, admitted to the
discussion, strongly urged the claims of
Balmain.
“It would be too delightful to have you
so close, instead of having to take a whole
day to pay you a call, and the children
would be such company for Lionel. He
will be very lonely when James goes to
school- I think it is a perfect plan,” cried
Maud.
But no one else was very enthusiastic.
Neither the Quartermaster nor Fanny cared
greatly for the Gillams, and Balmain some-
times seemed to them a veritable nest of
Gillams.
“It would look as if we were copying
them,” said the Quartermaster. “We want
to find something new, and I think I’ve
found just what we want—up the Parra-
matta River at Hunter’s Hill.”
The Quartermaster unfolded his idea to
William, who found it good. Hunter’s Hill
was a locality fast becoming one of the
most fashionable and select in the neigh-
borhood of Sydney. Lying on the high
narrow spit of land between the Parra-
matta and the Lane Cove rivers, its history
went back almost to the beginning of
Sydney’s history.
In the days of free grants this peninsula
had early been given out in blocks to free
settlers and emancipists, and its history had
been colored by many picturesque features.
A large portion of the' southern shore
facing the Parramatta had been especially
reserved for whalers and sealers, though not
much of this had been taken up. The proxi-
mity of Cockatoo Island and its own quiet
seclusion had caused many escaped convicts
to seek concealment there, and there were
many alarms and excursions among the
settlers on this store.
During the ’forties the locality settled
down to a more peaceful and uneventful
life, attracting more and more of the well-
to-do professional people of Sydney. It
received its last hall-mark of social superi-
ority when the brothers Joubert and Count
Gabriel de Milliau bought up considerable
estates and settled there. They determined
to make their Australian homes as beauti-
ful and as Italian as they could. They
brought selected workmen from Italy to
build them, and especially chosen materials
from Rome and Paris for their adornment.
Their own homes complete, they built
others for sale. It was their enterprise
which madd the Hill, always a select com-
munity, one of the most fashionable about
Sydney.
The Quartermaster was never one to let
opportunity slip, and he saw here a fine
opportunity to secure just the home he
wanted. The house was of stone and three
storeys high. It had solidity and suavity
and situation. Its outline was solid and
sufficiently like the store to give the
Quartermaster confidence. It was built in
the form of a square with a wing flung out
at right angles to the eastern side of the
housej, A tiled verandah supported on a
colonnade of stone pillars ran across the
front of the first storey, and but for this
the walls were unbroken save for the long
narrow windows set flush with the stone
and armed with wooden shutters.
The austerity of the general outline was
tempered by the smooth rounded arches
over the windows and doors, the nobility
of the chimney stacks, and the bland, shal-
low steps that bowed the visitor up to the
massive oak front door with its manorial
knocker of btonze. Above the door, set too
high for ostentation, was the solitary em-
bellishment of a shield cut in stone, flanked
by two stone spheres. The circular grass
plot in the sweep of the drive held its
urn, like a calyx in stone, and, below, the
beautiful Italianate balustrade separated
the upper garden from the lower garden.
As yet it only separated one wilderness from
another, but so great was its power of
suggestion that the eye already imagined
the barrage of trees and formal gardens
and lawns that it would some day overlook.
From the verandah you could see water
glittering beyond, like a ring of steel or
sapphire about the enchanted garden, and
from the upper windows you could see
across the river to the wooded headland
of Longueville; to the east, Ball’s Head and
the junction of the rivers; and to the south,
over the narrowed and sunken peninsula,
the city itself.
After the Citv-road the Hill was very
quiet, and the house was more than quiet;
it had a quality of remoteness that nothing
could destroy. It had not entered men’s
minds to build houses to suit the landscape.
This house had as little as any house could
have in common with the ragged aromatic
Australian bush that had been driven back
to make room for it. It was as much the
secret work of man as the bush was the
secret work of nature.
The Quartermaster, looking down the
vista of reception-rooms, saw them crowded
with his friends, saw himself at the head
ox a. noble dining-table dispensing lavish
hospitality; saw his son and his son’s son
here after him, his house firmly founded.
William, as he paced from room to room,
measuring, estimating, was busy planning
how the house should be furnished. Its
commanding position, its air of exclusive
grace and strength appealed to him; but
its noble lines and beautiful austerity cried
out in vain for an equal simplicity and
austerity in its furnishing. To him the
highest elegance was, and always would be.
the ornate and over-crowded furnishings
in which the ’forties, and even more the


“‘You coward, William!’”
lifties, found the highest expression of
domestic art. William determined that this
home should be a perfect embodiment of the
Victorian ideal of luxurious elegance. His
mind was already at work furnishing the
dining-room with massive, uncomfortable
chairs, ugly survivals of an earlier taste
for reproductions of the Greek style, a
monumental pedestal sideboard with large
mirrors set in a scrolled gilt frame, a
chiffonier with scroll supports, and all the
other ornamental and uninviting appurten-
ances of a gentleman’s home.
Fanny, standing by the long narrow
windows of a room in the eastern wing,
looked out over the sloping wilderness of
grass and trees, across the placid water,
darkened now in the shadow of a passing
cloud, and felt at peace. Gone now were
the bitter unavailing strivings that had tor-
mented her years ago; gone, too, the jeal-
ousy that had withdrawn her from any
share in Adela’s home, and had inspired
her eager competence when necessity drove
it back to her care. She could afford to
laugh now at her own absurdity.' This was
Adela’s home, of course, but only because
she was one of them. It belonged to
them all, they all had equal part in the
house of Hyde. There would be no need
for her now to anger William by insisting
on bringing to this room that she had
already chosen as hers the narrow white
bed, the flounced dressing-table with its
oval glass that she had clung to so desper-
ately in her unhappiness when they had left
Windmill-street, She needed nothing now
to bind her to the old life in Windmill-
street, for she was part of it. Her own real
life lay there, but this would be a lovely
sanctuary, a fitting counterpart, in their
domestic life, of the great and growing busi-
ness life in Windmill-street. She turned to
rejoin Adela.
Adela was not immediately to be found.
She had kept pace dutifully with William
at first as he systematically examined each
room, but she had slipped away at last
and sought refuge in the room on the top
floor that was to be the boys’ schoolroom—■
or rather Lionel’s alone, for James, poor
James! was to be torn from the family circle
as soon as the next school term opened. She
stood here a little while before she, too.
was drawn to the windows by the still
beauty of their prospect. She felt a little
appalled that she—Adela Gage—was to be
the mistress of this home. She was an old
married woman now, she told herself. But
this house made her feel incredibly young
and inexpenenced, and an intruder on its
predestined solitude.
The Hydes had to content themselves to
wait for some months before they could
move from City-road to Hunter’s Hill, for
William’s design of sending to England for
the appropriate furniture was carried into
immediate effect. Everyone felt that this
was right and desirable, though the Quarter-
master once voiced an uneasy suspicion that
they ought to give the local men their
chance. But the orders had gone away, and
many months had to pass before the new
home could be completed. So it was that
the Laburnums had seen the closing months
of 1857, had witnessed the Christmas festi-
vities and the great storm in which that
year had closed.
It is possible that James would have gone
as a day scholar to the Sydney College if
they had remained at the City-road, but
the move to Hunter’s Hill made, a boarding
school imperative. The only one that re-
commended itself was the King s School at
Parramatta. William and the Quarter-
master were more than satisfied to place
there.
James viewed the forthcoming revolution
in his life with mingled feelings. He was
a robust and manly lad, and he looked
forward with eagerness to the company of
other boys of his own age. His self-import-
ance waxed greater, and he found Lionel
more irritating than ever in his impervious-
ness and lack of appreciation. But as the
time grew nearer, fear overtook him, and on
his last night at home panic was not far
off. But he was determined not to show it.
After tea Adela said: “It is James’s last
night at home, so he is to choose what we
are to do. What would you like to do,
James?”
James could think of nothing. What he
longed passionately to do was to cry, with
only his mother to hear, and to be com-
forted and loved and praised.
Lying in the darkness waiting for his
mother to come and bid them good-night,
he wished that his world could end there
and then. He could not face the terrors of
the morrow, he could not endure even the
thought of it. any longer. When his mother
came he would tell her and she would save
him. But when Adela came he remembered
Lionel lying in the bed across the way,
remembered that he was twelve, he, James
Hyde, and had always been brave. So he
stiffened his heart against his own weak-
ness, and Adela felt him stiffening and
(Continued on next page.)


ryi ti iitiiiiiiiiiii#
9 _ r
7' o be healthu -
drink
the finest
tonic food
In 4 sizes drink
of all Chemists
and Stores
iiiiiiJMUUiujyuujubLUJkLUju
BBNGER'S
I food@
Write for booklet to: —BENGER'S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S POOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
In the Crisis
of Illness
as well as during tempo-
rary sickness or digestive
derangement, Beng e r ’s
Food is always the safe
food to give.
Whenever special nourish-
ment is required use
Benger s also as an extra
“between-meal” Food.
Food
Becd. Trade Mark.
‘Allenbunys*
Black Currant PASTILLES
ẃ
ẅ
Stage Folk!
To clear the
throat and restore
power and reson-
ance to the voice,
you will find these
Pastilles star
performers de-
lightfully soothing
and refreshing.
Your Chemist stocks
them. I/- and 1/9
per box.
thought it was against her. The intimacy
that had sprung up between mother and
son that night when the Dunbar was
wrecked was quite gone. Adela felt her-
self baffled by her son’s pride and obstinacy,
and the moment passed. She kissed him
good-night tenderly and sorrowfully, and
James held his breath lest it should reveal
his agonies. He watched her turn to Lionel,
waited till she had gone and Lionel slept,
before his tears of self-pity were allowed
to flow.
It was a subdued but composed boy that
set off with his father the next morning, but
the excitement of the journey soon over-
shadowed everything else. They travelled
by the railway to Parramatta. It had been
opened only a couple of years, and though
the first novelty had worn off, this was
James’s first trip over it, and he stood at the
window of his compartment or read the
Government notices warning passengers of
various dangerous actions with impartial
interest. The size and noise of the great
puffing engine alarmed him, but he was
determined to remain calm. When the
stationmaster rang the bell and the engine
blew its shrill blast he sat very tight and
held his breath, waiting for the great thing
to bound instantly forward. The reality
seemed very tame; and preliminary snorts
and jerks that heralded the train’s departure
robbed it of its majesty and splendor.
Another hour and James was standing
alone at the gates looking after William’s
retreating figure. He felt very lonely, almost
sick. Little fragments of his father’s speech
to him as they had come up the road
echoed meaninglessly in his ears. William
had felt that he could not let this occasion
pass without a solemn admonition to his
son. It was right that a father should
speak to his eldest son, who was his heir,
seriously on such an occasion. All the way
up in the train he had tried to think of
appropriate things to say. Father and son
had always been very good friends. From
early childhood James had felt his kinship
to William, but always it had been a silent
bond. They had never talked much at all,
and when they did it was always of quite
impersonal topics. But James had recog-
nised the signs of an impending sermon with
a boy’s certain instinct. When James had
heard his father clear his throat in a par-
ticularly portentous way, he knew the. time
had come. William had said: “My dear
boy, I feel I cannot let you go to school
without speaking very seriously about the
great opportunities you have before you.
Neither your grandfather nor I had the
chance which you now have, of going to a
public school. But we are sending you be-
cause you will be the heir to all that we are
building now and must be trained to take
your position fittingly. We have built up
a great business, James, and we have made
a position here in this country equal to any
man’s. And you are to have it. It is for
you. So you understand what it means
to us that you should do well at school.
You do understand, James?”
James had shuffled his feet in the dust
and said “Yes, papa,” and had felt thankful
that the iron gates that guarded the
entrance to the King’s School were close
upon them.
* * * *
The house at Hunter’s Hill had been
named Firenze in deference to its Italian
origin; its gardens had been cleared and
formally laid out, the furniture had arrived
and was now installed. The time had come
to leave the Laburnums.
The evening before they moved Adela
wandered from room to dismantled room,
taking her leave of them. No one else
minded leaving this house; it had served
its purpose and they had finished with it
now. Adela did not really mind very much
herself; she knew Firenze was much more
beautiful. But to-night as she looked for
the last time on these familiar rooms, to
which she had come nearly fourteen years
before, she felt as if she were losing some-
thing whose value she had not known till
it was taken from her.
She stood by her little work-table and
traced meaningless figures on its surface
with her forefinger. She had brought this
little table from England with her. It had
been one of her wedding gifts, and for nearly
fourteen years she had sat by it and sewed
and worked. She had wanted to have it with
her, but it was very scarred and disfigured
by mementoes of her boys’ games or battles.
When she suggested taking it, William had
told her of the present he had specially
ordered for her among the new furniture
for the house—a splendidly designed work-
table. Adela knew it was foolish and senti-
mental to feel as she did to-night, that she
preferred the old battered and dented table
to her beautiful new one, but she could not
help it.
As she stood there she looked up and
saw Fanny at the open door of the room,
and knew she understood. Fanny said
gently: “Take it with you, Adela. Papa
can quite easily arrange it. I’ll see him
about it if you like.” The sisters-in-law
smiled at each other afcross the room. They
had never been so close before.
The next day they moved into Firenze.
Of all the things that had accompanied
the family from Windmill-street to City-
road the golden clock, with its wreathed
and intricate face, almost alone survived to
take this journey, too. Now it was rele-
gated to the breakfast-room, whence it could
catch occasional glimpses of its supplanter
on the great marble ehimneypiece of the
dining-room beyond. It stood high amidst
its surroundings of Cupids and foliage,
flanked on either side by large mirrors in
gilt frames which were repeated on a smaller
scale on the gilt pier tables at the side. It
stared across the great oak table with its
brood of hard-favored chairs, and saw it-
self reflected in the mirror set in a scrolled
frame surmounting the magnificent chif-
fonier.
The drawing-rooms, opening into each
other by an archway, guarded on each side
by a statuette, were furnished in rosewood
with ivory or enamel inlaying. The otto-
man couches were ornamented in white
enamel with the story of Penelope and her
suitors in bas relief. The pianoforte, which
held the place of honor, for they were only
recently in vogue, was covered with ebony,
inlaid and enriched with gold in relief.
Before the severe fireplace stood a fire-
screen in a carved rosewood frame, its
circular panel worked in the fashionable
tapestry of the day with a delightfully
rustic scene. The occasional tables, chairs,
cabinets and caskets of papier mache were
fere in full profusion. In the bedrooms
were French or Arabian bedsteads, great
winged wardrobes and chests of drawers,
dressing-tables and washstands with carved
tops and scrdlled legs, all in mahogany.
William, as he walked from room to room,
superintending the work of unpacking and
arranging, felt that all was as it should be.
Only one thing he felt now spoiled the
perfection of his content. It was not fitting
that his sister, Miss Hyde, should attend
the business each day and work there like
an ordinary clerk. William admitted that
Fanny had been useful, almost indispens-
able in the early days of the gold-rush when
business had multiplied every day and
labor was unobtainable. She was very use-
ful still, with her clear grasp of the business
and her meticulous accuracy in accountancy.
But things were quite different now. People
had understood the emergency earlier, they
had recognised the necessity; but now there
was no necessity, and it was an increasing
vexation to William, spoiling even his
satisfaction in the new house, that Fanny
refused to see how improper her position
had become. But Fanny was impervious t*o
all William’s hints and had very.peremp-
torily cut short the long closely-reasoned
speech with which he had prepared to con-
vince her of her impropriety.
The Quartermaster had months ago set
his heart on a great “house-warming,” which
should enable the world to come and see
how well he had done for himself and his
family. His hospitable soul yearned, too,
to see large masses of people crammed with-
in his walls. His first crude idea was toned
down by endless discussion into a ball,
which everyone agreed should be the event
of the winter season. The plan had been
made some time before, but of course they
had had to wait until they had been
accepted in the neighborhood, when it would
appear as a graceful return for the hospi-
tality they had been offered as newcomers.
For Adela there was a clouded lilac mer-
veilleux, with tiers of ruches that would
rise from hem to waist over the immense
crinoline and would allow her slender figure
with its embroidered lilac sheath to rise
flower-like above its billows; for Fanny; a
maize-colored Chambery gauze mounted on
silk of a deeper shade, its deep flounces
trimmed with rows of narrow black velvet;
for Esther a grey taffeta with flounces of
shot grey-green silk glinting with new lights
as one turned it from side to side. The
crinoline was at its widest in that year, so
that cloaks were impossible, but there were
scarves of shaded grenadine, of bracatelle
with embroidered flowers, and of the new,
heavily fringed crepe de Chine.
CHAPTER XVII.
Fanny’s House of Cards.
Adela lay ill in her bed one evening look-
ing at the ceiling- while William read to
her. She heard Fanny’s light, decided step
passing her open door and thought grate-
fully of her kindness. How lovely it must
be to be able to help people as Fanny did!
When the reading stopped she thanked
William weakly and they rested a moment
in silence.
“Fanny will have to go back to the store
soon, I suppose. I shall miss her, she has
been so very good,” Adela said.
William answered slowly: “She will not
be returning, I think, my love. We have
filled her place very suitably, and both
papa and I feel very strongly that her
place is here. Her daily attendance at the
store has been most unsuitable and quite
unnecessary for a long time, now.”
Adela would have answered, but Fanny
at that moment tapped on the door and
entered. She asked William to fasten the
shutters for the night while she busied her-
self with the bed. Adela caught at her hand.
“Fanny,” she whispered, “it is very kind
of you to give up your work for my sake.
William has just told me it is for good.
Really there is no need.” Fanny snatched
her hand away and Adela looked up to see
her standing with set face and blazing eyes.
William,” said Fanny, and her voice was
hard and stark, “are you trying to turn me
out of my work because I came home to
nurse your wife?”
William quailed, though he knew his
cause was righteous. He had not meant that
Adela should speak to Fanny. She was
simply to find when she wanted to return
that there was no longer any place for her
at the store, but he had not had time to
warn Adela, and the harm was done. '
Adela cried, “Oh, Fanny!” and began to
weep helplessly. William bent over her,
thankful for the diversion and for the silent
reproach he could direct towards his sister
for upsetting the invalid.
Fanny said quietly and very bitterly,
You coward, William!” and walked down-
stairs to find her father.
She tried to set her thoughts in order
as sii6 walked. She knew that she was
putting herself at a disadvantage by speak-
ing to him while she was still seething with
anger against William and the treachery
that waited till her back was turned to
snatch from her what she valued most in
life. But she could not wait till she had
schooled herself to calm; she must see him
at once to fight for what was hers. She
could not go back to the narrow, inter-
minable sameness and triviality of her life
before she had found her place at the store.
The work was hers, she was part of it. It
would be losing part of her life to lose
that. But it was not fear, it was blind
unreasoning anger that dominated her now.
How dared William! She had come home
to nurse Adela, his wife; almost she had
saved Adela’s life—the doctor had said it.
And he had taken advantage of her absence
to fill her place so that she could not return.
What was most intolerable of all was that
he had not spoken to her at all, but had
calmly told Adela, as if Fanny’s life were
a thing to be disposed of as he would.
Fanny found the Quartermaster in the
garden, leaning over the Italian balustrade.
She said abruptly. “Papa, are you allow-
ing William to turn me out?”
“Turn you out, Fan? What do you
mean?”
“From the store. He told Adela that I
was not returning. You employed me to
work there, papa. Are you dismissing
me?”
The Quartermaster was distressed. He
took Fanny’s arm and felt her tremble, and
he thought “How like a woman to make a
fuss like this!” He walked with her slowly
round the gravelled carriage drive before
he answered. “I’m sorry that you feel as
you do, my dear. You’ve done well at
the work and I’m proud of you. Travers,
you know, has come back, and after he has
served us faithfully for so many years we
can’t turn him out, can we?”
“So you turn me out instead?” said
Fanny. “Haven’t I served you faithfully,
too?”
“Come now, Fanny, that’s not the way to
look at it. Your brother thought it best
for all concerned, and you’ll find he’s right
if you’ll look at it like a sensible girl. They
can’t get on without you here. Addie
won’t be fit for anything for months yet,
poor girl! You can’t desert her, and William
says with Travers back in charge of the
office there’s really nothing for you to do.”
. He paused hopefully, and as Fanny did
not answer he squeezed her arii affection-
ately and walked up the shallow steps to
the house, leaving her standing on the drive
below. Fanny walked slowly back to the
Italian balustrade and stood where she had
found her father, her hands on the cold
stone. The stars and the thin crescent of
the new moon made the night lovely; be-
fore her the river lay deep in its enchanted
sleep. She was shivering but was not con-
scious of the cold. She could fight no more.
She could, of course, insist on returning,
and she knew that William could not resist
her will if she chose to assert it. But what
use was it when her father’s last words were
still ringing in her ears? She had thought
herself a necessary part of the life of the
store, but now that Travers was back there
was nothing for her to do! It was all an
illusion then. She was no more necessary
there than here—a stop-gap when others
deserted or fell ill, nothing else. She sup-
posed she must stay at home controlling
the household until Adela grew strong
enough to take back the reins of manage-
ment. Then what?, —a long straight path
of nothingness. That was all she could see
in life. She had defied that destiny once
before, now destiny had won.
The passion and storm of her heart sub-
sided, leaving only a great weariness and a
hard core of bitterness against William.
Fanny spoke no word of friendship or
sisterly affection to William for years—
until the great catastrophe that came to
the house of Hyde wiped out the past and
brought them together again in grief and
bitter pain.
Lionel’s education presented a problem.
Adela thought him too delicate for boarding
school and was determined to fight the
issue. Both the Quartermaster and William
thought the boy should go to school, though
they arrived at their conclusion by different
routes. Adela, usually so yielding, resisted
them both, and at last William was forced
to say: “If you are determined, Adela, we
will say no more.”
Adela was unreasonably angered by his
capitulation. “He would not have given
way so readily if it had been James,” she
thought. The Quartermaster shook his
head. “It isn’t right, Adela. You spoil that
boy. Pity he couldn’t have been a girl.”
“We will all be proud of Lionel some
day,” she answered, lifting her chin.
(Continued on page 58.)
NEXT WEEK.
Two Exceptionally Fine Stories.
“Worth a Dozen,” one of the best air-force tales ever written; and
“Sammy Dodge,” in which Colonel Grace, that great authority on
the Maori and early white settlement in Maoriland, will return to
“The Bulletin” after many years’ absence.


r
its
i
i
m
T; f , f 5
2**-. C
U
tX
y rn
*1
r>
z
<
sffS?sg
l
m
o
■<
m —(
20
&£ i
corn
I ,<r^
: 'Z
_y n
: v W it;
f v-«
t,
20
s*•
S M
P>
C/>
X)
«S
SS*5S*
j.S?
tU3
Iff
< am>' >
m*
im J
- <
m
K.'s
3
m
m
»
m
o
m
o
1
li
li
*
Gradually the North and South are being drawn together.
From Darwin the railway is already stretching towards
the South—and SHELL is'serving to bridge the gap.
"Go where you will —
Shell Service awaits you.”
MOTOR OIL tr SPIRJI
Another link in Australia’s transport chain has been forged by the
extension of the North-South Railway to Alice Springs —the centre
of the Continent. Abreast of the reaching steel arms of civilisation
goes Shell with its supplies and service. Co-incident with the
inauguration of the new rail service is the opening of the Shell bulk
depot at Alice Springs. Thus road and rail come together, each
helping the other, and both working for our national ideal—
''Advance Australia.”
%
23
m
n
/r.
vm
7?A
'7.
%
V"'
w
T'+'sS
m
*
m
&
o
*!**!>
1
1
Swii
E
it
0
so
w!j
%
S.BII


Perth : Master Motors Limited , Milligan Street
\* v
BUILT in a factory that has at its disposal all the
huge resources of General Motors, of world-wide
fame. Built in Britain of 97 per cent. British
materials by all-British labour. Built specifically for
motoring conditions as you find them to-day. And
how utterly pleasant those conditions are you will
know when you drive the Improved Vauxhall.
An engine that pours forth its eager power to
take you humming along the open r0ad....0r doles it
out economically to edge you through traffic in top
gear....THE VAUXHALL ENGINE!
Brakes that relentlessly check a 70-m.p.h. speed-
burst and smooth it out to a standstill in a few seconds
WARRANTED Ft)R ONE YEAR
....or masterfully hold the car on a down gradient when
you just rest your foot on the pedaI....VAUXHALL
BRAKES!
Springs that damp out every jolt and tremor of
the wheels....or hug the car tight down on the road
at a bend....VAUXHALL SPRINGS!
Briefly, a car that gives you a high average
speed on the roads of to-day....a car that moves
serenely among its fellows like the aristocrat it is....the
Vauxhall the NEW-IMPROVED VAUXHALL!
There’s only one way to appreciate Vauxhall
performance....drive the car!
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER
GENERAL MOTORS (Australia) PTY. LTD.
METROPOLITAN DISTRIBUTORSt
Melbourne : Bartow Motors Ply. Ltd., Latrobe Street
Sydney: Boyd Ed kins Limited, Phillip Street
Brisbane: Metropolitan Motors Limited, Adelaide Street
Adelaide: Mann's Motors Limited, Franklin Street
si*
line
\\\ V ' C
s.
\o
O*IIN


ŵ
dry Gin
The
©»
Largest Gin Distillers
in the World
WHITEST
PUREST
& BEST
The Heart
of a good
C ocktail
Obtainable
Everywhere
u
Advertise in &/, e
Queenslander”
QUEENSLAND’S BRIGHT NATIONAL WEEKLY
PICTORIAL.
The “Queenslander” covers the whole of Queensland and
Northern Rivers of New South Wales. All Agricultural,
Farming, Grazing, Fruit and Sugar-growing areas are reached,
as well as Mining and Oilfields and Timber Districts.
HAS A SOLID “RIGHT - INTO - THE - HOME” CIRCULATION.
Published by The Brisbane Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
Courier Buidings, Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Rep.: Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 85007.
Nobby’s.
J. H. M. ABBOTT'S
GRAPHIC STORY OF THE DAYS WHEN THE NEW-
CASTLE COAL TRADE FOUNDED ON CONVICT SWEAT
NOWADAYS a long stone-faced cause-
wav runs nor’-east from Colliers’ Point
Fort Scratcliley we call it—at the
mouth of the Hunter River, to the littie
fragment of rock at Newcastle which was
long ago christened Nobby s for a reason
nobody seems to have recorded. But
in 18il when Lieutenant John Purcell, of
H M. 73rd Regiment of Foot, ivas Comman-
dant, it stood by itself out in blue-green
water beyond the curving line of surf, and
was somewhat taller than it is now. It had
a green and grassy top, and a little yellow
beach lay about its base. A volcanic dyke,
which you may go and look at to-day, splits
the sedimentary bands of shale and coal of
which it is composed—splits it from top to
bottom. In those first days it was the Coal
IS For a little while, during the reign of
Lieutenant Lawson as head of the settle-
ment, female prisoners were confined there.
But that was not for long. When Toby
Bareshanks lived on the rock it was other-
wise as uninhabited as Crusoe’s island.
Green on top, grey in the mass, with dingy
black strata horizontally striping it, it was
something of a little jewel when lit up with
sunlight on fine bright days, an emerald set
in a matrix of blue, with a ring ot dazzling
white surf about its base; but when the gales
howled in from the south-east in wintry
dusks it was nothing but a menace and a
warning to shipmen seeking to make au
entrance to the port, which is still a very
dangerous and uncertain one, even alter two
long massive breakwaters have carried the
mouth of the river far to sea. _
Toby Bareshanks, a domestic character
who wanted only to be left alone with
his domesticity, lived on the Coal Island.
His home was a hole in one of the coal
seams, and he had a black gin for consort,
and only God knows how he managed to
feed himself and his woman, or expected to
maintain their newly-arrived infant. Lach-
lan Macquarie Bareshanks” —that was the
name bestowed upon this hybrid atom when he
was baptised at the request of the Governor
himself by Mr. Purcell, since there was no
chaplain in the settlement. Ha, ha!
laughed the autocrat, making one of his rare
jokes. Bare shanks indeed—and bare other
things too, I expect!”
Asa reward for an act of great merit,
and maybe also because he was reputed a
little “soft” and was very cantankerous in
his dealings with his fellows, Mr. William
Lawson had given Toby permission to dwell
on the Coal Island, after the women had
been taken off it, in the capacity of look-
out or watchman. He was to give warning
of escaping convicts, though, the boats being
strictly guarded, convicts had hardly any
chance of getting to sea by way of the mouth
of the river.
“But ye’ll have to burrow, Bareshanks,
said the Commandant, “for I’m going to
take away the women’s huts.” He alluded
to the row of wretched _ bark hovels that
fringed the base of the island’s shoreward
slope. “Ye may take it or leave it at that.
Ye’ll have to dig a hole in the ground some-
where. You can draw rations now and again,
which the fishing-boats can take out to ye m
good weather; but I expect ye’ll need to do
a bit o’ fisliin’ yourself. Are ye anything
of a fisherman, my lad?”
“Zur,” said Toby, “ ’tes me natur vor
to be. 1 be a Brixliam laad. Ess, zurely,
“Oh, well, ’tis your look out. Ye’ve asked
for it, though I’d ha’ rewarded ye better,
Bareshanks. You did the settlement a real
service and deserve some recognition of it.
But, dammit, man, ye’ll die o’ loneliness.
“Not I, zur. ’Tes a tight lil’ plaace, wi’
laashin’s o’ gools. An’ I’ve no love vor th
volk o’ King’s Town, y’r Honor —nor them
vor me. Us be better apart. A low lot, they
pris’ners—dom ’em!”
He did not ask permission to take Moon-
eree, the black girl, over to the island, except
of course the parental consent of Big Tommy,
her progenitor, which was readily obtained
for two pounds of negro-head—stolen from
the stores. With filial virtue, she obeyed
her father’s command to swim to Nobby’s
through the surf; and so Toby commenced
family life, and brought about the blending
of Devonshire and Coquon-—which latter is
the correct and proper title of the Hunter
estuary, given to it by the people who had
a right to name it. The result of the blend
was in due course hanged at Norfolk Island
in Mr. Price’s time. But the fate of their
child has nothing to do with this story. We
are concerned only with Nobby’s.
As the Government schooner passed by
after dark the second evening out from Port
Jackson, on the occasion of hrs Excellency
visiting the settlement some little time after
Mr. Purcell had assumed office as Comman-
dant, a fitful red glow in the seaward face
of the rock had attracted Macquarie’s atten-
tion. Firelight shining through the mouth
of a cave, it had looked like. When he in-
quired of Mr. Purcell whether the Coal
Island was inhabited, that gentleman had
enlightened him as to the population of New-
castle’s outpost.
“A queer fellow lives on it, your Excel-
lency—a sort of half-wit —who was placed
there by Mr. Law-son as a watchman, though
what he may be employed to watch for I
have never been able. to comprehend. How-
ever, he’s out of mischief over there, and
does no harm, if he doesn’t do any good. A
black woman shares his exile, and I believe
they’ve a child, though I’ve never seen it.”
“Ha!” observed Macquarie. “Are they
married ?”
“Well, no, I don’t think they are, your
Excellency. Prisoners are, as you know,
somewhat free and easy in these matters.”
The Governor shook his head. “Yes, yes,
I know, and regret such laxity. But I don’t
see why these two shouldn’t be properly
united, my dear Purcell. A somewhat public
position the fellow occupies, doesn’t he? Able
to set an example. Send a boat and bring
them ashore, and we’ll regularise their rela-
tionship. The child, too —it might be Christ-
ened. Yes, see to it, Mr. if you
please. Before I return to Sydney.
So one of the women of the place gave
Mooneree an old skirt, and they were mar-
ried under vice-regal patronage, and little
yellow Toby ceased officially to be a bastard.
And, as has been mentioned, Governor Mac-
quarie made one of the few jokes recorded
of him during liis term of office as Captain-
General and Governor-in-Chief in and over
his Majesty’s Territory of New South ales.
The Limeburners’ Camp behind the north-
ern end of the isthmus, where the suburb
of Stockton straggles out toward the Port
Stephens country to-day, was not only the
site of an industry most essential to the pro-
gress of the colony, but also si place of pun-
ishment, the very name of which was dreaded
and execrated by the Coal River convicts.
Shells were gathered on the twenty-mile
stretch of beach curving north-eastward from
the mouth of the Hunter to Morna Point,
burned in the kilns at Limeburners Bay and
floated down on the tides in clumsy lighters
to the settlement. About Sydney and New-
castle you may still come across old walls
whose stones are cemented together with mor-
tar made from this sea-shell lime, and in their
interstices it is possible to observe fragments
of the shells themselves. There is one m
the Botanic Gardens at Sydney, and another
very weathered and picturesque, outside the
police barracks at Newcastle.
There was never anything at any of the
other penal settlements quite so bad as the
conditions of hardship and misery which
were the lot of the unfortunates who made
up the gangs at Limeburners Bay. No-
thing in the whole of the continent was quite
so terrible. Theoretically, the work was not
hard. Gathering sea-shells sounds almost like
a pleasant occupation whose labors might be
lightened by cool ocean breezes. But the
shells were picked up from dry sands above
high-water mark, often under a pitiless sun
which scorched and blistered the backs and
shoulders of the almost naked .toilers, who
had to carry afterwards the bags of lime
from the kilns to the barges moored out in
the shallow bay on the river side of the isth-
mus. And many of those blistered backs
were raw from recent floggings, for the discip-
line at “the Limeburners” was very severe.
It may be imagined how the unslaked lime
tortured those anguished backs ! The rations,
too, because the place was a depot ror
prisoners under punishment, were of poor
quality and very scanty, and the men were
housed in ramshackle sheds which were little
better than a pretence at shelter: the
rain came through the bark roofs, and the
wind whistled in the chinks between the
shrunken slabs that had been split from
green timber. They had no blankets at night,
and used to huddle together in a heap for
warmth, covering their nakedness with piles
of mouldy seaweed from the ocean beach.
And often they were summoned to the water-
side in the small hours of the morning to
load the barges which had come up the river
on the tide, and were urgently required full
of lime to be put aboard some vessel that
had been hurriedly dispatched from Sydney
so that Governor Macquarie’s new buildings
might not be delayed in their construction. The
builders were always singing out for lime.
Wherefore, and because of these miseries
and discomforts, and also because Red Bill
Lort, the principal overseer, had recently
had them both flogged, and had kept them
at work thereafter with bloody backs and
shoulders, the souls of Peter McCree and
Timothy Scarp were as sore as their fester-
ing bodies. They sat below the summit of
a sandhill behind the camp and watched the
sun go down beyond the dark mangroves up
the river. A fleecy, thin expanse of wool-
like cloud above the western horizon glowed
with an even blaze of crimson lire, and the
wide, still, polished reaches of the Hunter
spread away from the mud-flats below them
towards the distant purple ranges of the
colony’s unknown interior. It was Sunday
evening.
. “I’m done, Tim,” said Peter McCree.
“ ’Twould be annything I’d do—annything at
all —before I’d stand another wake like th’
last one. Better to be dead an’ done wid,
even if tli’ black min’d ate ye, than for to
stand auny more o’ thishyer Hell. I’m for
boltin’. An’ this night, too. A wake l An-
other day'fl be th’ death o’ me.”
Gloomily the little dark man nodded his
agreement with the sentiments of the big
fellow beside him. He carried a small
branch of gum leaves which he flicked across
each shoulder alternately in an effort to keep
the flics away.
“Hell, yes!” he grunted. “An’ I’m done
for, too, th’ same as ye are. Big Pete. Gawd,
another week! But I’d like for to kill Red
Bill afoor we go. I’d hang for that fellie
an’ willin’. Hang comfortable !”
“We’ll off into th’ boosh whin ’tis darruk,”
said McCree. “Niver mind Red Bill. There’s
thim as’ll attind to him. We’ll off to th’
blackfellies. Kinder they are than our own
color, so they are. But let ’em do what they
will, they can’t trate us worrus’n what we’ve
been trated here. No, by God!”
Ilis companion made an emphatic gesture
with the switch of gum-tons. “No, no,” he
said. “We’ll not be doin’ that. I know
a better way. Them lime-boats—ye see them
lime-boats down on th’ flats yonder? To-
night we’ll wade out to one o’ them an’
cast her loose when th’ tide’s on the ebb.
You an’ me can work th’ sweeps. They
ain’t a-goin’ for to load ’em till after mid-
night. Tommy Inch, at th’ cook’ouse, ’o’ll
give us some tucker. An’ we’ll drift out
to sea an’ land up or down th’ coast, w’ich-
ever way th’ wind or tide sets us ashore.
That’s th’ lay. Wot abart that, now?”
Peter McCree sat and pondered, his stub-
bly chin resting in liis cupped hand. Of
slower mentality than his mate, he wanted,
time to digest this brisk and immediate plan.
Presently he spoke.
“Well, then. Tim, ’tis a nice aisy schame,
so it is, but ’tis no more than I’m tollin’ of
( Continued, on page 57.)


Banking, Public Companies, eic.
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3.309.965
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1028.. £18,623,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
PRANK N. YARWOOD; H. H. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E.;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER; C. M. C. SHANNON
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH: 62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 186 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,009
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament 1865,
and Registered under the Companies Act 1892,
of South Australia.)
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 985,000
£2,235,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,485,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
w
' SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuc.
If you have
Woo! & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offieej: H Bridge Street, Sydney-
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HI NTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CLUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISLAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAL ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POEO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World’s Leading
Advertising Agencies.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d .
It deals r ith every subject of
interest to women.
Shipping, etc.
Travel X Beauty Route
Canada
United
States
Europe
via Pacific
Isles
Particulars of
Rates, Sailings,
Routes, etc., and
Through Boohing —
WHICHEVER your destination,
the routes of the mighty Union
Company Liners pave the ocean-
way with golden stepping stones. . .
the Sunny Pacific Isles. Voyagers
to Vancouver call at Auckland, Suva
and far-famed Honolulu. Or,
travelling via Wellington to San
Francisco, you see Raratonga and
Tahiti, vivid wonderlands of tropical
grandeur. The Union Company’s
Combined Service enables fort-
nightly trans-Pacific sailings from
each end, and tourists bound leisurely
for Europe may book for the com-
plete journey to insure ahead their
comfort and convenience.
Union Steam Ship Co.
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street,
Melbourne, Cl.
/m
m
~ Lull MO^ii^ x 'i
. s' f
x* —:
f “
ŵ
Burns Philp Tours.
A VISIT TO JAVA
(the Garden of the East).
Native Bazaars, Famous Temples, Tea Gardens.
SPECIALLY CONDUCTED TOUR.
Leaving Sydney 7th August, 1929 —•
S.S. MARELLA (7500 tons).
Seven weeks’ inclusive tour, £129 (All Expenses).
Fare includes First-class Return Steamer Passage and
about 14 days’ Motor Tour through JAVA. All Hotels,
Sightseeing and Motor Guides, etc.
Book Early. Party Limited.
Pacific Island Excursions
To — Papua, New Guinea, Solomon
Islands, Lord Howe Island, Norfolk
Island and New Hebrides.
TRIPS OF 2 TO 5 WEEKS’ DURATION.
Apply to
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LTD.
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE.
BAN It OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED is 11
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund. .
Reserve Liability
ẁ
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20.900,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1928, £88,982,585.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St.. E.C.2.
554 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,075,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
£13,553,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN ( Chairman ) ;
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND; Major-General
the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM MACARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M L.C :
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRY HURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
\ll Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping', etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
BRISBANE, viaBYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due’ Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/8/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/16/•
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Phiip & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart ParkerLiM
Magniftoent
Fast Passenger
Steamshf|is
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE .. .. 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S
ONLY PICTORIAL DAILY
%
ẃ
ẅ
NEWS PICTORIAL
ALL THE NEWS!
ALL THE PICTURES!
Must be included in any advertising
campaign seeking to cover the great
Central State.
SALES INCREASING RAPIDLY.
HEAD OFFICE: REGISTER NEWS-
PAPERS, LIMITED, Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative: F. Thompson,
133 a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Melbourne Representative: G. N.
Bednall, The Herald Office, FHn-
der« Street. Telephone: C 4643.


w
if -
I
■ fe^
V. : !
£
□F
‘K*
ET
3/-. 5/6 , 6/-, 10/-, 12 x 6,
20 /^a.n.0130/ r
(jpATONj
Mailed to you the
day they are made
famous 'fed Bax of GkocoUleS^^y
osh fre
~ree ho any
address in Qjushralia.
HILL
CH OC O
s
ADDRJESS—
162*166 Pitt Street
SYDN E Y"~
ŵ
SEND FOR, CATALOGUE ILLUSTRATED .WITH REPRODUCT.ONS OF aUe.rOONFECnONJR^.^COLOU^r,
meself. Sure, if ye drift out past th’ Coal
Island an’ up or down th’ coast, won’t ye
be afther cornin’ into th’ naygurs’ hands
wherever ye make a landin’? What’s th’
differ? I ask ye that now. ’Twould be
aisier to go give ourselves to thim black men
around Port Stephens, fellies we know some-
thing of, than to be thrustin’ to strange
tribes along th’ coast as mightn’t niver ha’
seen a white man afoor. An’ mebbe ye’d be
drownded at say—or broke to bits on th’
rocks —so ye might. Sure, ’tis a tur’ble ven-
turesome thing—an’ very chancy—this
schame of yours.”
“Aw, be damned! ’Tis a clean eshcape
we’d be makin’. Haven’t they got these
Port Stephens fellers nobbled, I ask ye that,
Peter? They gives ’em rum an’ flour an’
baccy for ev’ry bolter they brings back to
rh’ settlement. You know that. Wot abart
Ben Davis an’ Bob Lacey an’ ’arf a dozen
others I could say? Wasn’t they brung back
be th’ niggers? There ain’t a ’ope that way.
But do as I say. S’posin’ we does get
drownded or busted on th’ rocks? ’Twould
be better than livin’ any longer in this
hell-hole. You take it from -me.”
The big Irishman sighed and gave in. “Oeh,
well, 'tis mebbe so. To-night, thin? We’ll
shwim off as soon’s things is quiet. All
right, thin, Timmy, me bho.y, I’m wid ye.”
* * :!■• #
Dawn was just breaking as Toby Bare-
xhanks crawled out of the hole in the coal-
seam that was his Englishman’s castle and
paused on the ledge before it to sniff the
fresh salt air of early morning. He faced
the wide half-circle of grey ocean curving
round from Norah Bungaree down the coast
to _ Cape Stephens northward, a tousled,
hairy-chested, half-naked figure that had the
aspect of a gnome newly come up from the
bowels of the earth. Behind him the yellow-
grey face of the islet, with its stripes of black
where the coal seams lay between the shale-
beds, and the perpendicular, weathered dyke
of rock running up to the green rim overhead,
caught and reflected the orange light begin-
ning to mount towards the zenith from the
hard indigo rim of the horizon. Gulls and
sea birds wheeled and swooped, screaming,
about the top of the island. Down below
him was a strip of wet sand—the tide was
out —and, to Toby’s vast amazement, a black,
flat-bottomed boat was stranded in the cream-
ing shallows over which the surf from curl-
ing breakers further out flooded and eddied
in the slackness of the ebb. In the boat, on
a heap of empty lime-bags, two ragged and
hairy men lay fast asleep. One of the long-
oars projected over the clumsy blunt bows
of the barge, whilst the other lay stranded
in the wash on the sands.
He stared at them for a full minute.
Then his dusky wife came and jabbered at
him in the doorway. She was stark naked,
and her yellow, pot-bellied offspring peered
out from between her spindle, bandy legs.
Toby turned and signed to her to withdraw.
“Back, lass, ’tes runaways, an’ I mus’
do my job.”
Presently he emerged again carrying a bell-
mouthed brass blunderbuss with which
momentarily he covered the boat and its
slumbering crew, as if to assure himself of
the range and his potency to control the
situation. He lowered the firearm and
scrambled down the ten or twelve rough
steps hewn in the shale until he stood on
the beach. After a brief pause, he moved
towards the boat, keeping the blunderbuss
at the “ready.” Just as the fiery rim of the
sun lifted above the dark edge of the world,
he came up to the tarred gunwale and halted,
staring at the sleeping men. An empty black
bottle caught his eye as it lay on the flat
planking between the bare legs of the bigger
man of the two.
“Ha !” he grunted. “Rum ! Ess, fai’—
they be boozed proper!” He leaned over
the side of the boat, lifted the blunderbuss,
and then put its butt back on the sand. It
came to Mr. Bareshanks suddenly that he
must have full control of both men before
he called upon them to surrender. Never
in his ill-spent life before had he experi-
enced such pleasurable feelings of import-
ance. He would take up a position whence
he might rake the craft with the charge of
slugs and gravel tightly rammed in the
monstrous muzzle of his fantastic arma-
ment in the event of any resistance offering.
Silently he stole round to the sternboard
of the barge, and rested the blunderbuss in
the big notch amidships that had been cut
to accommodate the steer-oar. For a few
moments he contemplated the strategic situa-
tion with satisfaction before giving vent to
the unearthly bellow that aroused the slum-
berers and brought his dusky helpmate to
the door of the cavern.
“Hi, hi, hulloo!” roared Tobias. “Coom,
then, i’ th’ King’s name! Zurrender, laads,
y’r goose be cooked!”
The big Irishman, Peter McCree, opened
his eyes and stared vaguely at the source of
this rude awakening; but his companion was
instantly on his knees in a crouching pos-
ture, glaring fiercely at the gaping mouth of
the threatening blunderbuss and the queer-
looking, hairy face of Tobias Bareshanks,
which was all of him that was visible above
the boat’s stern.
“Zurrender!” bellowed Toby again. “Zur-
render to a King’s officer!”
Timothy Scarp scowled at him as he spat
into the eddying, foam-flecked shallow water
overside.
“’Ere,” he said, “wot’s this ’ere? You
point that ’ere cannon somew’eres else,
damn ye! Ye’d blow a cove to blazes if
'twas to go off. Wot th’ ’ell d’ye want,
mister?”
“Aye, laad,” laughed Tobias, “ ’twould
blaw ’ee furder’n blaazes, I tell ’ee straight.
Do ’ee zurrender —th’ both of ’ee?”
“Who th’ hell are ye, anyway?”
“Naame o’ Toby Bareshanks. Put in
tkiccy plaace special vor to stop pris’ners
scapin’ to zea. Put ’ere be th’ Commandant
isself. Thiccy boaat —’tes one o’ th’ lime-
barges or I’m a Cornishman. An’ you’m
runaways, th' boath of ’ee. Coom naow,
laads, zurrender paiceable an’ no harm ’ll'
coom to ’ee; move hand or fut an’ ye’re daad
men boath. What’s it to be then?”
, “Aw, bad luck to th’ fellie left th’ bottle
o’ rum in th’ boat,” muttered Peter McCree.
“He’s got us, Tim; we’d best do what he
says. Come on, thin.”
The big man stood up and clambered over
the gunwale into the swirling sand and water
and his mate followed him. As they dis-
embarked Toby fell back a pace or two, still
covering them with the fearsome weapon in
his grasp.
“Naow then, laads,” he ordered, -“sit ’ee
down whiles I explains things to 'ee a bit.
Sit on them rocks.”
They splashed on to the dry sand where
broken fragments from the crumbling cliff-
face littered the beach, and did as they were
told. Up above them the unlovely nude appa-
rition of Mooneree gaped down from the cave-
mouth, the yellow piccaninny whining for
his breakfast between her bow legs. Timothy
Scarp gaped up at her in wonder, and what
he said is not for decent print to tell.
Instantly, with a snarl of anger, Tobias
Bareshanks swmng the muzzle of the blun-
derbuss round to cover him, and Tim Scarp
shrank from the menace of its yawning
mouth. He was amazed to recognise the
fury of the queer-looking fellow who pressed
its butt into his shoulder and roared at him.
"Hell an’ damnation! I’ll taaehe ’ee vor
to talk th’ likes o’ that!” shouted Mr. Bare-
shanks. “That lady’s a-goin’ vor to be y’r
mistress, my man, an’ I’d have ’ee spaake
respee’ful of un. None o’ y’r blarsted lip
’ere, my laad! Elst I’ll blaw ’ee to blaazes
quick. Ye’ll call un ‘Mistress’ when ’ee
spaaks to un, an’ touch y’r forelock, un-
nerstand? She’m my laady-wife, lawful mar-
ried to me be Mr. Purcell "isself, an’ was
giv’ away be Gov’nor Macquarie. I be goin’
vor to kaap ’ee on tlv island, an’ ye’ll work
vor us. Lord,” he muttered half to himself,
“I’ve always wanted vor to veel what’d be
like vor to be one o’ th’ quality—vor to be
a gentleman wi’ sarvints an’ arl. An’ naow’s
me charnce. I’ll not hand ’ee over to th’
guard, as ’tis right an’ praper I sh’d do, but
I’ll woi'k ’ee meself, ’ere on th’ Coal Island.
Ye’ll be sarvints to Mr. Tobias Bareshanks
and his laady-wife, hofficer-in-chaarge o’ this
’ere island. That’s what ’ee’ll be. Naow
then”
A shout came from seaward, and they all
looked round. Just outside the breakers a
white boat heaved in the swell, the sunlight
glinting on the musket-barrels of four red
jacketed soldiers in the sternsheets. Mr.
Purcell, the Commandant, stood himself at
the steer-oar, and beside him was seated
Red Bill Lort, overseer at Limeburners’ Bay.
The crew of prisoners had steadied the boat
and were dipping their oars gently in the
sparkling water, whilst Mr. Purcell held
parley with the “officer-in-charge” of the
island.
“Who are they, Bareshanks?” he shouted.
“Are they from the Limeburners?”
With bitter disappointment Mr. Bare-
shanks regarded the tossing boat. “Be
daamned, but ’tes crool luck!” he muttered.
Then he shouted to the Commandant:
“Oh, aye, zur. They’m a couple o’ bolters
I’ve jest cotched!”
“Good man, Bareshanks!” Mr. Purcell’s
voice, faintly audible through the splash of
the tumbling surf, held a note of admiration.
“Very good indeed!’’
Haunted Harbor.
Hill and headland, beach and jetty,
Lighthouse-tower and convent-spire
Dreaming Age beholds. As yet he
Seeks in vain his heart’s desire.
Haunted Harbor, ah, how many
Happy lovers knew your thrill!
May it be that shades of any
Wander by your beaches still?
Some who loved beside your waters.
Some who kissed beneath your skies,
And whose little sons or daughters
Kept your sparkles in their eyes,
Haunted Harbor, from your spaces
H'ave departed outward bound,
Yet in your most holy places
Surely they may still be found.
As the freighted ferry passes
Near a lighthouse-guarded isle,
Someone walks amid the grasses
Seeking dear ones lost awhile ;
Questing in the golden weather
Through a little leafy grove
Where they oft broke bread together
In a sacrament of love.
On that isle, for moment fleeting,
There is one who waves white hands,
Calling, beckoning, entreating.
Love discerns, and understands.
For that figure, consecrating
Groves and glades and rocky shelves,
Is a type of loved ones waiting
For all living other-selves.
In the million-peopled city
Who is there in lonely plight
But has drawn swift tears of pity
From the angels in the height,
Watching from their jewelled portals
Sower Fate, who scattcreth
Broadcast on the fields of mortals
Mingled seeds of love and death.
Haunted Harbor, are you hearing?
Not a soul who sails your tide
But has lost some loved one steering
Outward for the Other Side.
Yet ’tis true beyond all cavil
Happier are the hearts that grieve
As ’mid throngs they homeward travel
When your lights are lit at eve.
On your hills, all dark for ages,
Lines of light they now behold.
Rune and rime on ancient pages—
Mystic poems writ in gold.
When those glittering scrolls we gaze on,
Seeking peace that reassures,
“All things else must change,” they blazon,
“Love alone for aye endures.”
Soon the sea-wind strikes in colder.
Ship is rolling in the trough
Past the cliff’s last looming boulder
Where the friendly lights break off.
Pomp of silence, iteration
Of the sleepless waves that fleet,
Darkness as at the Creation
Broods where mist and ocean meet.
Peak and point and promontory,
Tree-clad islet, beach and bay,
Robed at night and noon in glory,
Like a dream have passed away.
Is there aught more fair, men ponder.
In the land where loved ones dwell?
*****
When the call shall come from yonder
Haunted Harbor, fare you well!
N.S.W.
JOHN SANDES.


“Every Picture
Tells a S
Why
Endure That
Aching Back?
jQOES your back ache day after day with a dull,
unceasing throb? Do sharp, rheumatic pains
torture you at every sudden move? Are you so,tired
and nervous it seems you can never be well again?
Then look to your kidneys! The kidneys, you
know, are the blood-filters. Once they weaken,
poisons are apt to accumulate that healthy kidneys
would have filtered off. Then comes constant back-
ache, headaches, dizziness and kidney irregularities.
One feels lame, stiff and achy—years older than he is.
Don’t risk neglect! Help the kidneys with a reliable kidney medicine. Use Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, the remedy home folks recommend. Ask your neighbor!
EXPERIENCES OF SYDNEY PEOPLE
Mrs. F. Anderson, 29 Thomas Street, Balmain, Sydney, says: “1
suffered with my kidneys for a good while, the result being that I was
tortured with backache, and the pain at times was so acute that I had
to lie up. My ankles and legs swelled somewhat, and were sore to the
touch, and I always felt tired and languid, having no energy for any-
thing. About two years ago I was advised to take a course of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, and they were spoken of so highly that I made
up my mind to try them. . After using a couple of bottles 1 felt much
better, and as I continued taking the pills the improvement was main
taincd, five bottles effecting a perfect cure, and I have been well ever
since.”
Ten years later Mrs, Anderson confirms her previous statement:
“Doan’s Pills made a perfect cure in my case, for I have had no trouble
with my kidneys since this remedy cured me over twelve years ago.”
Mr. A. Bartle, No. 3 Gladstone Street, Bexley, Sydney, says: “Off
and on for years I suffered with disordered kidneys, the result being that
I was tortured with backache. When I had a bad attack my back used
to be so stiff and lame that I could not even turn in bed without suffering
agony. The kidney secretions were affected, being thick and cloudy with
a red sediment. I was also subject to dizzy attacks and generally
speaking felt far from well. One day a friend, hearing of a cure by
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, urged me to try them. I bought some
without delay, and used them with excellent results. The first bottle
gave relief, and a course of the pills made a complete and perfect cure.”
Twelve years later Mrs. Bartle says: “Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills cured my husband of backache and kidney trouble over twelve
years ago, and he has had no return of the complaint since.”
DOANS
Backache
Kidney
PILLS
Sold by all Chemists and
Stores.
Foster-McClellan Co.,
Proprietors, 15 Hamilton
Street, Sydney.
So it was arranged at last that Lionel
should share a tutor with the Hillis children,
and Lionel climbed over the crest of the
hill every morning with a satchel of books
on his shoulder. Always afterwards when
he thought of his schooling it seemed to
him more like something reflected in a
mirror than a reality, and always at the
bottom of its deep tranquillity was a slight
distaste. But the thing that really mat-
tered, that affected him most lastingly, was
Margaret Hillis’s music-practising.
* i\i * *
Just after the New Year of 1860 had come
in on a great wave of heat, old Mr. Gillam
died. He was seventy-four and had been
an old man for a very long time. The
Quartermaster was genuinely grieved.
Though they had never been intimate
friends he felt a deep sense of personal
loss. The illness had been long drawn out
and had imposed a strain upon the whole
family, although Mrs. Gillam and Adelaide
had borne the brunt of it.
When the will was read it was found that
he had left Gillam Park and a large sum of
money to Humphrey, and to his widow the
house at Balmain and a proportion of the
income from the business. Each of his
daughters was entitled to a proportion, but
the controlling interest and management
were left entirely to Franklin, Sophia’s
husband. Old Gillam had made his in-
tention clear for some time, but the accom-
plished fact caused bitter strife in the
Gillam family, the more bitter because it
had to be concealed.
Adelaide belonged to a society of Anglican
ladies which had been formed in 1854, in
connection with one of the city churches,
to make and distribute warm clothing and
other charitable gifts among the poor of
the city and to exercise as far as possible a
beneficent control over their morals and
behavior. The vicissitudes of the gold years
and the reckless spending that they fostered
had made nearly as much poverty as wealth,
and Sydney now afforded as much scope
for charitable work as any city of the old
world. Adelaide and her society had
their hands full, and they were always
appealing for more helpers. It was im-
possible, they found, to make exhaustive
inquiries into the circumstances of every
applicant for aid, yet that was necessary
if they were to exercise the moral control
that was the most important part of their
work.
Adelaide talked a lot of her work to Adela
and Fanny. She hoped Fanny would see
the difference she was trying to make,
without actually saying it, between what
was womanly work and what was not. Fanny
had a great, struggle with herself after
Adelaide had gone. She did not want to
work for the sake of doing good, as some of
these ladies did; for the sake of feeling
virtuous or for the sense of power over
others, as more of them did. The only
work she really wanted was to take part in
the everyday toil of the world, to feel
herself part of the machinery of life. But
as she could not have that she must find
something else that would give her an outlet
for her energy and capacity.
The social round exasperated her intoler-
ably, so that she could not, even behave
agreeably. She knew she had made herself
unpopular among the ladies of the Hill,
and that Adela was feeling the strain of her
taciturnity, but she could not help it. To-
morrow she would go and offer her services.
It was not what she wanted, but it would
have to do, and at least she would have
the satisfaction of beating Adelaide Gillam
on her own ground.
So Fanny entered the philanthropic life
of Sydney. The Reverend Mr. Hardwick
was glad in time to hand over to her capable
hands the entire control of the female
side of his Poor Schools. She brought to
its problems a sane competence, practical
commonsense and unswerving devotion, but
the work never lit her spirit to enthusiasm.
The inner core of bitterness remained un-
touched.
(To be continued next week. )
The Ways of Providence.
WHEREIN “HAMER,” INTRODUCES HIS LANDLADY.
THERE’S no doubt about it,” said my
landlady, “as the Bible says, true
’arts is more than cornets, an’ simple
things amuse small minds. The people [oo
’ad this room afore you come was a married
couple name o’ Bert an’ May as ’adn't been
able to get their lines yet. What I mean
ter say is, both of ’em was married, but
they couldn’t get married to each other ’cause
the other people was alive. My ’ouse ’as
alius been a respectable ’ouse; but when
people are situated like that, you can’t blame
’em very well, can you? They paid their
rent reg’lar, an’ was goin’ ter git married
when ’is wife an’ ’er ’usband died. Not that
they wished ’arm to nobody; they was just
waitin’ an’ ’opin’ for the best.
“She use ter mope over it sometimes; but
I use ter cheer her up. ‘There’s a silver
linin’ before the dawn,’ says I. ‘Trust in
Providence, my dear,’ I says, ‘an’ it’ll all
come right by and bye.’
“We none on us saw the Mysterious Pur-
pose when Bert’s real wife died of poison-
in’, and they arrested Bert for murder. Why
they should suspect ’im nobody knows, excep’
that ’e was ’avin’ trouble about ’er main-
tenance and ’ad threatened to do her in. But
there’s no romance about the perlice.
“It was while the .pore chap was lying in
gaol that the Other Man comes along. ’E
was all smart clothes and ’ypocrisy, just like
the estate-agent ’oo sold me this residen-
tial. ’E reminded me of them lords you
read about in the books. ’E makes a dead
set on May; an’ she, poor thing, a weak,
helpless woman, all alone in the world,
seemed struck with ’im. Perhaps she was
thinkin’ that Bert was as good as ’anged
already, and wouldn’t be able to marry her,
and this chap did want to marry her. The
deceitful wretch! ’E didn’t say nothin’
about knowing that May’s aunt, who ’ad
the ’am-and-beef shop, was ill and was leav-
in’ the business to ’er when she died.
“But I suspected ’im all along.
“ ‘It won’t be respectable if you marry ’im
before Bert is decently ’anged. You better
wait for that,’ I says.
“She waited. Then one day a rough feller
came up and asked about a lady named May
I ’ad livin’ with me.
“ ‘She lives ’ere with ’er ’usband,’ I said,
dignified like.
“ ‘I’m ’er ’usband,’ he almost ’owls.
“You see ’ow it ’appened: this feller
watches, sees the man who is’ angin’ about
May, jumps to the conclusion ’e’s Bert, and
’its ’im on the ’ead with a bottle, killing
’im. So ’er ’usband goes up for trial fer
murder and gets ’anged. So at last she is
free.
“Bert gets acquitted on what the lawyers
call a tactical point. So ’e is free, too.
“They asked me to the weddin’ breakfast,
which was prawns and beer in this very
room, the day after ’er ’usband was ’anged.
I was a family friend, you might say—a
personal, grater, ’e said —’e was a bit of a
scholard and spoke severil langwidges. I
must say they got a bit confidential, and she
asks him if he really did poison ’is wife..
“ ‘Don’t be afraid to tell me. I’ll think
all the more of you if you did do it—you
did it for my sake!’ she said, proud-like.
“ ‘Well, I did,’ ’e says. ‘But you mustn’t
think I acted rough,’ ’e says. ‘I got the
very gentlest poison there is. It couldn’t
’ardly ’ave ’urt ’er a bit.’
“ ‘lt’s just like you—it shows a kind ’art,’
I says. ’E always was a gentleman; a real
native gentleman, if ever there was one in
this wild world of sorrer!
“So there you are —all things workin’ ter-
gether for good. I’ve been a religious woman
all me life, and that, all ’appenin’ so impro-
vident, increased my faith. Especially when
the old aunt died an’ left them the ’am-an’-
beef shop.”
At Arthur’s Pass (M.L.).
Brother, the sentinel beeches say,
Brother, brother, thy beard is grey.
Here in reticulate sunlight old,
Hush and hear and have and hold.
When will the Dark One pass this way?
Hush and hear the dews that fell
Fair on the saplings, not an ell
Yet erect on the solemn spaces,
Lost so long in the green embraces:
Hush and hear our sorrowless knell.
So young we were, so greenly gay—
Brother, brother, thy beard is grey!
The fairy moss, a forester’s pall,
With lichened love to each and all
Clingeth the rose of a graced decay.
Slim and straight and dateless wait
We for the word by fell and spate.
■ So long we have, so long we hold
, The riddle of Fate, the rune of gold
That dies on the mystery harp of Fate.
We are not living, we are' not dead;
We shall not stir: we are not sped,
One with the light reticulate,
Netted in bliss inanimate.
Long is it yet till time be dead!
Druid gold of a sun that died,
Woof and weft of eventide,
Hallow our sleep that is not sleep,
Radiant, brood on the watch we keep
In dells of dusk where the floods divide.
Dank at our feet is the dark undrouth
That clogs the road to the glacier-mouth.
Life is at gaze on the peaks that part
Cloud from cloud and dream from art.
Death blows up from the windy south.
Brother, the Druid watchers say,
Brother, brother, thy beard is grey!
When shall the night of nights befall
Whose wing is Time’s release and pall?
When will the Dark One pass this way?
MAORILAND.
JESSIE MACKAY.
The Passer-by.
I am passing by,
I am crossing the moor;
I wait not for knocking
At your open door,
J am passing by,
i am climbing the hill,
Unheeding the lamp-glow
From your shining sill.
I am passing by.
It is lonely and late,
lint I do not linger
By your unlatched gate.
Other feet will tread
Your flower-bordered path;
My part is remembrance
And grey aftermath.
When the night wind stirs
In the sycamore-tree
You will wake in the darkness
And think long of me.
You will hear my voice
In the sorrowful rain,
But I shall not journey
On this road again.
N.S.W.
LILLA GORMNUILLE McKAY.


|1pV:|
fdUmKuuMKr $k' I
•'■•■>':,# I
* ,*
atefl m
'SI
jPJe
«“•*!**
WESTIN CHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
£nsure minimum wear- —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AOSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—UOJLMl23 & CUIiKCU, Brisbane.
N.Z. Olfiee—B3-107 l'eatherston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Victor inn Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide. 8 A
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper.
To-day, in the great State of Queensland, the newspaper that
offers to merchants and manufacturers unquestionably the
finest “cover” in the daily paper field is
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
Circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be
greater than that of any other Queensland daily.
For rates and other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE,
First Floor, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
"THE AGE”
Established 185/f.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space.
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of cave
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
KNOW. Appeal to them through “THE AGE,’’
which others have found to be productive. Get
the benefit of 75 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 123,533 daily sub-
scribers who demand air accurate and complete
news service of the world's happenings.
“THE AGE”
circulation is in reality a body of
readers which. lias been organised
into a body of - Purchasers.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
the fldmtiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population,
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State affeneies of
Messrs. Gordon & Got eh, price licl.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, 133 a Pitt Street, Sydney,
Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria :
G. N. BEDXALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office : 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere—ali over the State, in Town and
■Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and each
issue is eagerly read by men, women and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays. Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 223
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: ‘Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
What's the matter with you ?
You know there's something wrong
with you ? What is it ? Your liver
and stomach upset ? Then you re
More often than not the faulty
functioning of the digestive
organs, brought on by Constipa-
tion, is the cause of Biliousness.
Failure of the bowels to act
properly, results in poison acc-
umulating in the system which
upsets the stomach, giving rise to
biliousness, headaches, loss of
energy and appetite.
These are signals. Take action!
Take Beecham’s Pills.! They
assist nature and keep the system
regular and healthy.
\i
\
# 1 tt
m
m
mm
fa * ■* ■" 4
■7l *> r fit % :■•% • •"• .-5 }•>'•' 1"
lil filiM Ski 1 iY"i ‘V \ ' .! \
m
=*D
TUESDAY, JULY 16, 1929
Vo. 5.
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
w
v*V
0°
ii'-
C>’ W*
si'
s ef f o« ....•••••.,••’••
’ s «e v.- ••
S> «**>.
. $r
A sc.e 'iftc® s :


; mm
tff
/A
AUSTRALIAN F
W.M.5 .
///ZZW#.
MADE BY
ftylands Bros. ( Aust.), Ltd.,
NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.,
and at 422 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Made throughout from BEST Australian materials.
WARATAH “B.H.P. STAR” STEEL POSTS will not bum. No post holes
to dig—no boring of posts—no wedges or ties—no posts to ram —no
insurance—no white ants—easy to erect.
“WARATAH” FENCING WIRE. —The finest netting made in any part if
the world—will stand the severest test—always even and reliable in quality.
Look for "Waratah” identification disc.
“WARATAH” WIRE NETTlNG.— Guaranteed even, regular and reliable
—well galvanised. Full weight and runs out straight and fiat. Can always
be relied on.
Made at Newcastle in Australia
FROM
“8.H.P.” STEEL
The World’s Best
“FLEXO” DROPPERS are UNBREAKABLE—FIRE PROOF—RUST PROOF
ŵ
200 STEEL POSTS or 20 WOOD
PER DAY
POSTS PEA, DA YJ
fW'A /
JJ
•fi/yufr
ẁ
A sure protection against White Ants and Damn-rot. Can be easily driven in the
hardest ground. These posts are extraordinarily rigid, and, being star-shaped,
give equal strength in -every direction. Also always ask for—
WARATAH FENCING WIRE.
The World’s finest wire—will
stand the severest straining tests.
WARATAH WIRE NETTING
Guaranteed even and reliable.
Runs out flat.
j Sy
RYLANDSBROS.(AUST.) LTD.NEWCASTLE.
ALL OF ABOVE ARE MANUFACTURED BY
RYLANDS BROS. (AUS.) LTD., NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
AND AT 422 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
MADE FROM THE FINEST
B.H.P. NEWCASTLE STEEL
