

M.
m
<L
A
‘ fNj'
" 1 iiir |j* S' ,
-£3® 7
. Bj
OT-
*A
/
11
/
%
r IF a black cat crosses your \
j> * path, you may—or may
not —have good luck ahead.
But there’s no mistake about
the sign that bears the magic
name “K. 8.”
That’s a really good sign , for
it always means that there you
can refresh yourself with a
long, cool glass of Tooth’s
K.B.—so welcome after a long
day’s run. K.B. is a TRUE /
Lager. 1
I j “piftN K.
/ Whin*'
\\- ’'t
ifl
>/
a true
LAGER
s£
Brewed and Bottled by TOOTH & CO.,
LIMITED, Kent Brewery, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Turn/ yQiH/r' Msuis 'Wfiat /i#dtis uJcc/
Vol. 50.—N0. 2565.
Wednesday, April 10, 1929.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


>R THE LIBRARY CATA-
.AND LISTS on a!] subjects,
tor warded on application, post
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
WRITE
w LOGI
Ff
OOUE
which wiii be
fpafi tn
JLY3AOMT
o
0
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
sK?
X 4
HW 3
Love Me and the Luck is Yours!
As I was saying to Tabitha: Men are fools; why should they work for
a living when they can pick up v/ealth like this? Listen! All you have to
do is to look at me, love me, and the shilling’s mine, so to speak, btit
the fortune’s yours— £lo,ooo of it Nobody ever failed who trusted
Peter.
THE NEW SOUTH WALES FIRE BRIGADES’ ART UNION
FOR HOSPITALS, AMBULANCES, AND CHARITY.
(Sanctioned by the Attorney'General)
©
©
I AM PETER
T/iE LUCK BRINGrER.
TAIS IS YOUR LUCKY Oft,
SEND ALONG AT ONCE]
S 4
DONML9
£lO,OOO in Prizes. First Prize a solid Gold Helmet, valued
at £3000; Second Prize a Golden Casket of Diamonds valued
at £1000; Third Prize a Diamond Tiara valued at £750.
TICKETS: ONE SHILLING.
Six Tickets, 5/j Twelve Tickets, 10/; Twenty-five Tickets, £l.
A Ticket a Day Keeps Misfortune Away!
Send at once. State whether Mr., Mrs., or Miss. Enclose stamped envelope
for result slip. Art Union Drawn on June 1, J 029.
Address: J. J. NEVILLE, Hon. Secretary.
Fire Brigades Headquarters, 213 Castlereagh-street, Sydney, N.S.W.
TAKE THE ADVICE OF A WISE OLD TOMCAT AND 808 IN.
I’LL BE HAPPY WHEN THE BOBS COME BOBBING ALONG!
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN'*
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
w
kill that fly.
MUSTDIF
HOUSE ELIES
ARE POTENT
CARRIERS or*
DISEASE AND
EILTH.
ŵ
IS NOT A GERMAN
POWDER.
.Sold Everywhere.
PRICE 1/.
The Red Page
Old Trader Horn
Continuing what had boon a procession,
and what remained a procession during
| he. old man’s stay in Sydney, a reporter
had Trader Horn wedged into a corner of
the Hole! Metropole lounge. He kept him
there a long time, for it, is hard to leave
11actor Horn: you u;o because you are inter-
ested m him as a literary figure, and you
stay because you become interested in him
At, the moment his foot-and-a-half of
pointed grey beard tilted up on the small
table beside a stumpy glass of flat beer
and against his chair rested a walking-
stick with a short tusk for handle. He
had his hat on; a large hat beneath
OLD TRADER HORE: A thrce-minuie
pencil sketch by Guy Lynch.
which a few inches of parchment-covered
skull could be seen going steeply up. In
the next four or five hours he took that hat
off only once, and then as a gesture of
astonishment.
He appeared to be taking very kindly to
the interview—was, in fact, watting some
ot it himself, just as lie had written those
enchanting chapters of “The Ivory Coast 1 ’
about halt a dozen years ago. Then, of
course, he wrote in an African doss-house,
perpetually disturbed by incoming drunks,
often hungry find cold, and in such coni-
pany generally that he had to keep his coat
on foi focir if would be stolen. Perhaps
that is . where keeping his hat on became
habitual. Now' lie is comfortable, well-to-
do; his books among the best-sellers of the
day. I wondered, watching him there, how
he was taking to the change of circumstance,
I was to learn that, bearing out a Hazli't
argument, lie had not changed at all; tlml
he speflks just as his discoverer, Mrs.
Lthejreda Lewis, records that he spoke
when lie first approached her on the slorp
with his bundle of tinware. She was busy,
I recall, with a chapter of her own, and
told him that she made a practice of never
buying anything on the stoop. He “said
mildly that it was a good habit and that
Ife could well understand it,” and he shoul-
dered his bundle to go. And then Mrs.
Lewis made her momentous decision; she
deeded that, site could do with a gridiron.
She also asked him to stay to tea; they
talked, and it was agreed that for a
little more than he could make in a good
day’s peddling he y r as to come io her house
for one day a week and tell her of hi. advon-
tu res. Hul she
found that he re-
peated himself,
that, his soul in
making the last
effort s to express
itself before the
walls of senility
closed in, was toy-
ing- with a few
impressions held
staunchly from
youth. »So she in-
duced him to write
the book, and left
his work as he
brought it to her
weekly on a dozen
or so pencilled
sheets. At each
visit she talked
with him on his
general view’s ot lile. and bv inserting these
conversations between his own chapters
made one ot the raciest autobiographies
in the world and one of the finest books
issued by Cape’s publishing House—“ Al-
oysius Horn: The Ivory Coast in the Earlies”
—a book of which' John Galsworthy has
written that it is “more full of sheer stingo
than any you are likely to come across
in a day’s mnVeh among the bookshops of
wherever you may be.”
J did not. particularly want his views on
Australia, hut, evidently he hail been so
consistently asked for these that all my
efforts to get him on to literary associations
were vain. He called for drinks, and said
in one of the best i-am-being-interviewed
voices of my experience: "I like your archi-
tecture. It is superb. Australia is the most
prosperous corner of the British Empire.
It’s more prosperous than England. In this
country you have energy. They’ve got me
on a Cook’s Tour—of reporters’ faces. You
want to know why this country is prosperous.
You have energy. See this, I'll take you to
London and show you how much men can’t
shovel in an hour. Here you’ve got the best
workers in the world. They tell me the
women won’t marry ’em. They ought to
I’ll take you down to where there are men
with arms on them. I’ve never seen men
work like ’em. Will you come with me
and look at them? Well, we’ll go now.
Come bn.”
We drank our drinks and went. On the
way out lie suddenly spoke of the success
of his books. On the big hoardings in Now
York Chesterton and people like that had
insignificant notices: Horn’s were feet high.
He was very proud of that. At the top of
the street steps he stopped me, literally
held me with his skinny hand. It was an
act of goodfellowship, though it. did not
argue anything in my special favor, for he is
equally friendly with everybody. There he
told me of his forthcoming book of verse.
One verse he feciled to me—flowing lines
about an albatross; “six feet, of wafting
snow.” I asked his permission to quote it
or some of it. “What!” he said, “and then
they'll go for me for ihfringement of copy-
right. No you don’t.” He patted a lame
leg with his stick. “They used to pay me
a. pension for that,” he said. “N T ow they’ve
taken the pension away and charge me
income-tax that’d make your hair stand on
end.”
As we went down the street he again
branched on to the subject of Australia's peer-
less workmen. He was more enthusiastic,
sincerely enthusiastic, than any union sccre-’
tary. These men had arms on ’em. Aus-
tralia had energy. The women -wouldn't
marry ’em. They shovelled more to the
hour than any workmen in the w0r1d....
We approached, the excavation works and
looked.
'Phi l men who were not sitting down were
lying down.
It was then that Aloysius Horn took his
hat off. The spectacle beat him for about
a, minute. But he soon hit on a solution
—lunch-time! So we wandered further
along the street with his fine opinion intact.
I tried to edge him on to literary associa-
tions once more. I asked if he knew Shaw.
“If I don’t,” he said, “I’m a liar. Know
him—of course I know him. Those men
back there are the best workers I have
ever seen.” I harped once more on Shaw.
“Look here,” said Mr. Horn, “he’s not. that
important, is he?”
And so we turned into a bar. There were
in there, as happens, a bunch of acquaint-
ances of mine—an artist, a medico and
sportsman, two country men. of Galong and
Ungarie. J menlion them because they rep-
resent a diversity of interests, and because
Aloysius Horn, getting into a fine stride
of reminiscence, held that diversity of inter-
ests by the sheer power of his fine old
personality. He is sharp in sizing up a
situation. Here laughter was railed "for,
and he made it. lie gave us whole passages
from “The ivory Coast” as if he had never
uttered them before. When he. met Mrs.
Lewis he. displayed his sketching ability by
drawing Botha, a trick that, had earned
him many a meal when Botha was popular.
He now took a sheet rfnd wrote this message
to Australia:—
The Bitm.etin. —7/ you think that it dors
not give me heart’s regrets to leave your
Australia, kindly kick that thought away.
Then lie drew a sketch of himself on the
same sliLet and signed “Old Trader Horn.”
Trader Horn’s “Message to Australia.”
Ho wanted 1o sop Australia, he went on,
and he wasn’t going- to see a stick of it!
A.-Fod why lie hated the French, he asserted
(hat. they wore “a lot of rotters” Also
they had kicked him out of Madagascar.
i he women in Madagascar had the choice
ho explained, and the Queen’s sister picked
(urn. Its better to get married than have ■
your head chopped off”; so he was married.
1 lie woman, he insisted, was white; white
as snow.
” Was there any issue, Mr. Horn?”
Mr, Horn: “Don’t be silly.”
And then his wink, in which the top pve-
hd comes down and the other doesn’t move.
So the ancient mariner went on, gripping
the interest of everybody he looked at. En-
joying himself immensely, too. Nothing
affected, no new pride about him. When i
a man came in selling froA a trayful of i
(Continued on page 5 ,)


‘‘Truth in Advertising'* —not an unattainable ideal,
but an established fact at Anthony Horderns’.
To be sure of Supreme Quality, Moderate
Price, and Immense Assortment, buy
Down Quilts and Blankets at
Anthony Horderns
-Tin i .is 1 1 ~•'
-^op^v7!,iUiii'i'iiUi||iifA
rTrernr l i||i,i> t i n i ,r j feiT-TtriT
EJ3I
•jg'.'i 'i yi'u ,Uiiim
(tMwM 1
TT7T
U,
wKiv'-K.ti' :
y,"..^ ,|1 '. 1 " 1 ;. aimi% .
(^iT^inW
Every Down Quilt offered by
Anthony Horderns’ (and they total
an immense number!) is carefully
selected not only for beauty, but for
genuine worth. Each Quilt is filled
with pure Feather Down, and each
one is made so as to give wholly
satisfying service. For warmth,
lightness and beauty you cannot
beat a Down Quilt from Anthony
Horderns’.
Wlien Anthony Horderns’ describe
Blankets as being of Pure Wool you
may be certain that there is not a
trace of any inferior material in
them. This means that you may be
certain of the utmost in warmth and
service from the Blankets you choose
at Anthony Horderns’. You will be
delighted to notice, also, the very
low prices, which create supreme
value.
ẁ
In Figured Sateen
from 50/-
Down Quilts, of good quality
figured Sateen. Wide, plain
Sateen panel in colors which add
to the effectiveness of the border
designs. Size, 6ft. x 4ft.; Prices,
50/-, 52/6, 55/-, 63/-. Size,
6ft. x sft.; Prices, 57/6, 60/-,
67/6, 70/-
Figured Cambric
from 45/-
These Down Quilts have plain
Satin panel and border, and very
novel figured Cambric centres in
colors to harmonise with panel
and border. Size, 6ft. x 4ft.;
Price, 45/-. Also larger size, 6ft.
x sft.; Price, 55/-
ẃ
ẅ
White Blankets from 29/6 a Pair
Made of Australian Wool. Size, 72in. x 54in. For single beds. Per
pair, 29/6, 32/6. In All-wool. Per pair 34/-, 40/-
Size, 81in. x 63in. For three-quarter beds. Per pair, 38/6, 42/6. In
All-wool 44/-, 50/-, 55/-, 59/6
Size, 90in. x 72in. For double beds. Per pair, 48/6, 53/6. In All-wool.
Per pair 55/6, 63/-, 68/6
Size, 99in. x 81 in. For extra-large double beds. Per pair, 59/6, 67/6.
In All-wool. Per pair 69/6, 75/-, 92/6
w
Size
Price, pair
Single Bed.
72in. x 54in.
25/6
Three-quarter.
81 in. x 63in.
34/6
Double.
90in. x 72in.
42/6
Large Double.
99in. x 81in.
52/6
(Quilts and Blankets—First Floor. Carriage Paid.)
You can buy these on our “D.P.S.” (Deposit-Purchase System) if more con-
venient The cash price only is charged, and there is no interest charged.
Anthony Horderns’
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712c 9 G,P.O .


R, ,
ewarded ...
by record-breaking sales
Because it emphatically startled
and delighted Australian motorists,
the new De Soto Six leaped
into public favor with amazing
swiftness.
The truth is, no new car in the
whole history of the industry ever
attained so large a sales volume
as that reached by De Soto Six
during the three months’ period
immediately following its intro-
duction.
See and ride in this newest Chrysler-
built Six, and you will readily
appreciate the reasons for its
immediate and widespread
popularity.
ŵ
'AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DE SOTO DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: GRENVILLE MOTORS LTD.,
205-213 William Street, Syd>iey
Victoria: AUTOMOBILES PROPRIETARY LTD.,
92 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland': STRADBROKE MOTORS LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: DOMINION MOTORS LTD.,
Flinders Street, Adelaide,
Western Australia: WENTWORTH MOTORS LTD.,
Milligan Street, Perth.
New Zealand: NEW ZEALAND MOTORS LTD.,
Wellington.
DE SOTO MOTOR CORPORATION (Division of Chrysler Corporation), DETROIT, MICHIGAN
De Soto Six
PRODUCT of CHRYSLER D 502


ẁ
UNIVERSAL
ẃ
Head Office: 279 Clarence Street, Sydney.
29 Hunter Street, Newcastle
200 Queen Street, Melbourne
28 Coromandel Place, Adelaide
931 a Hay Street, Perth
53 Charlotte Street, Brisbane
33 Argyle Street, Hobart
studs and things Old Trader Horn ga\ e
him a shilling, but did not take anything.
Then he stood like a statue ol himself
ing out into the street. He was remembei-
ing, for he turned and told over again about
his coming book of poems. He used to
hawk poetry, he said. He also hawked
paintings that he did on pieces of tin. Now
his books were bringing him in a princely
income, and he was being charged a princely
tax. He shuddered at the thought ot that
tax.
Later in the day we met again, and
sculptor Guy Lynch drew a sketch of him
which Old Trader Horn signed, “this is
the best sketch of myself I have had since
I became Old Trader Horn." Once more
he displayed his own gift with the pencil
by sketching Mrs. Lewis and himself. Ray
Lindsay sketched him afterwards, and he
wrote that it was the best sketch, etc.
Yet it did not seem to be mere flattery
coming from him; like his remarks on our
architecture, women and workers, and his
attempts to bear all expense, it seemed to
spring from sheer overflowing generosity.
He talked because he fancied that was ex-
pected of him; the rest he did out of
goodness of heart.
He is an artist to the finger-tips, in con-
versation and in every other way. One of
his legs was badly shattered in the South
African War, with potsticks—legs of iron
pots broken up and crammed into a gun —
and his story of how that happened is a
wonderfully realistic little picture of war.
It is remarkable of him that he never speaks
without saying something worth listening to.
A tame-seeming story of having had his
brain tested ends with the amazing finding
of the specialist “Forty miles of cerebral
mix-up.” He repeats himself in the manner
of age, but his repetitions invariably have
embellishments that give them fresh life,
and almost every sentence he utters has a
twist to it. He is 79, and looks every minute
of it, but he is astonishingly alive.
Next day he left for Maoriland, continu-
ing his “Cook’s tour of reporters’ faces.” In
America he is to appear in a film; may
the movie-makers do him justice! If he
has found a strange pencil in his pocket it
is mine. I like to think he might use it to
draw a dream of reporters’ faces. It would
be a cheerful picture and kindly, for Old
Trader Horn is like that—except, of course,
when he thinks of income-tax.
CECIL MANN
George Chaffey
The Life of George - Chaffey, by J. A.
Alexander (Macmillan), might usefully be
placed, if not in the schools, at any rate
in the Parliamentary kindergartens.
As a youth, Chaffey, after several essays
to express himself romantically in engineer-
ing, moved from Canada to California. His
creative faculty was immediately fired by
the prospects of irrigation. There is noth-
ing so spectacular in its effects as irrigation.
It achieves its finest flowers precisely in the
spots which look most unprepossessing. In
fact, the great truth which Chaffey grasped
from the dreams of a now forgotten vision-
ary, Dr. Wozencraft, was that the more arid
the soil the more likely is it to respond to
the stimulus of water. Within a' year
Chaffey had founded the pioneer settlement
of Etiwanda. A year later he was engaged
on the larger project of Ontario.
His method was masterly in its simplicity.
Ho knew that as a class irrigationists have
a passion for litigation only second to the
Afghan hawker. He also knew that irriga-
tion settlements usually only learnt by a
process of making the costliest blunders.
He also foresaw that it was in the nature
of the irrigationist, as soon as the expensive
initial work of providing the moisture was
forgotten, to convince himself that the fluid,
like the rain, flowed from the finger of God
and that therefore there was no call on him
to pay for it. Chaffey formed his agricul-
turists into numerous small co-operative
companies, each controlling a small area.
If one company decided on committing sui-
cide its demise was not serious enough to
wreck the whole enterprise. Then he formed
a master water company, which controlled
the sources, built the necessary works and
saw to it that the settlers paid for their
requirements.
The success of Etiwanda and Ontario
brought about a meeting between Chaffey
and Alfred Deakin. That incorruptible
statesman lit Chaffey’s fancy with his
story of the appalling aridity which sur-
rounded the course of the Murray. Any-
body can see what Chaffey saw at Mildura
in iBB6 merely by walking across the new
bridge into N. S. Wales territory. Present
writer was through the district recently
and the only livestock he saw in a day’s
run from Balranald was one fox, not in the
best of condition. Everybody knows, or
should know, what Mildura is like, and
that the neighboring Red Cliffs—a true
oasis in the desert, if ever there was one—
has a world-wide reputation as a soldiers’
settlement.
Victoria comes very badly out of her
dealings with George Chaffey. Australia
was then in the throes of her romantic de-
lusions about State socialism. Capitalism
had come to be regarded as theft; the
Government control of everything was the
ideal of every honest patriot. Coming from
individualistic America, Chaffey was a babe
in this wood of official paternalism and
political jobbery. In the middle of the
frequently-scandalous argument South Aus-
tralia offered Chaffey practically a free
hand, and Renmark was the result. Vic-
toria was frightened and caved in suffici-
ently to enable Chaffey to start at Mildura.
Then the famous boom arrived, the
bubble burst, glib politicians told the set-
tlers that they were under no legal obliga-
tion to pay Chaffey for their water, a
ludicrous Royal Commission found that
Chaffey’s self-designed machinery was
wrong, that his channels were wrong—in
fact, that he was a dud, complete and irre-
trievable. He returned bankrupt to
America, but his machinery is still working,
his channels have not been superseded and
Mildura is prosperous, although the Gov-
ernment charges three or four times what
Chaffey charged for water. In the current
Commonwealth Year Book some 28 pages
are devoted to Australian irrigation, but
there is no mention of Chaffey. Such are
the ways of Governments.
Chaffey went to his greatest triumph in
the Imperial Valley. This was a waterless
tract below sea-level, 100 miles long by 90
broad, which travellers crossed at their
peril. By diverting portion of the Colorado
River Chaffey put nine new cities on the map
and a population of 70,000. Roosevelt, an un-
stable emotionalist, was President and had
also been bitten by the idea that the State
should run everything. Once more the set-
tlers were informed that water, like air,
was something that need not be paid for.
Chaffey was driven out and the badgered
water company he left, embarking on an
alteration to his plans, achieved the remark-
able feat of diverting two-thirds of the
Colorado into the gigantic basin of Imperial
Valley. Forty miles of railway were sub-
merged, towns and farms were engulfed
and the most fruitful area in the U.S.A. was
in process of being turned into an inland
sea when Roosevelt made a panic-stricken
appeal, not to his own State Reclamation
Board, but to a private individual to save
the situation.
Out of his relations with Roosevelt Chaf-
fey earned the right of entry to the Ananias
Club, a mythical organisation whose honor-
able membership was confined to persons
whom Roosevelt had seen fit to call liars.
In 1924 the State reclamation districts were
three times greater in area and six times
greater in population than Chaffey’s Im-
perial Valley, but produced only 40,000,000
dollars compared with 37,000,000 produced
in the Imperial Valley. Chaffey was a poor
liar.
He is now an old but mentally vigorous
man of 80 whose hobby is building ships
and who is making a fortune out of bank-
ing. He has just launched a schooner at
San Diego called the Mildura.
M.G.S.
A Satchel of Books
“l-Icre’s Misery!” by E. V. Knox (Meth-
uen). Evoe, well known to every reader of
London Punch, here collects some of his
best parodies.
The Silver Thorn, by Hugh Walpole
(Macmillan). A book of stories rich in a
quality that belongs to tine etchings rather
than to great canvases. They do not
strongly stir the emotions, but they charm
as things of quiet beauty. They are prose,
as distinct from the hurried hurly-burly of
mere words that the writer with a gift for
narrative and no taste for literature too
commonly leaves in his wake. Hugh Walpole
has both the gift and the taste. Also, he has
a cleanliness refreshing and rare in these
days of spittoon literature.
The Sowi of Gold and Other Poems, by
Maimie A. Richardson (Hodder and Stough-
ton; Dymocks). Simple and sincere lyrics,
chiefly sprung from a heart overflowing with
love for nature. No great height of poetic
expression is reached, but the verses are evi-
dence of real poetic feeling, and, like much
of the good in minor verse, they arc charm-
ing to read :
Your wind-bent, twisted trees stand stark and bare,
Only some lonely love-taught lark perchance
Scatters the golden rain of his delight
In magic melody o’er you at dawn.
O hills so desolate!
Silver Circus, by A. E. Coppard (Cape;
Itoycroft, Sydney). A minor puzzle is why
the author gives the title story first place
in this latest volume of his tales. It is
strongly Coppard in treatment, but it is .only
a magazine story, with a reckless straining
of coincidence and only the brilliance of the
telling to save it from being commonplace.
The tritely-titled “Fine Feathers,” a very
brilliant life story of a fool, is in the true
Coppard manner, and so are most of the
others. As usual, Coppard scores points
in the telling; his prose has a haunting
beauty about it, a quality that can make the
reader reopen his books for the joy that
is to be-had from lovely passages apart from
the stories altogether. The book is mag-
nificently printed and bound —as pretty a
thing as Cape has ever done.
The Bridge of San Luis Reg and The Angel
that Troubled the Waters, by Thornton Wil-
der (Longmans; Dymocks). Mr. Wilder’s
“Bridge” has been so greatly lauded that it
is unnecessary to say anything further in its
praise, except to agree that it is fiction as
grand as it is unusual. Still, in this re-
viewer’s opinion, the pre-knowledge given to
the reader of the death or deaths that will
occur at every chapter-end is a weakness
dramatically. A “surprise” ending is not
asked for, but simply that uncertainty which
is the life-breath of drama. Nevertheless,
“The Bridge” is notable fiction. The other
is a collection of “three-minute” plays where-
in Mr. Wilder exemplifies his confessed pas-
sion for compression. The plays have merit,
and some of this is dramatic. “Who does
not know,” asks Mr. Wilder, “the empty
opening paragraphs, the deft but uninstruc-
tive transitions and the closing paragraphs
that summarise a work and which are un-
necessary to an alert reader?” Of course,
everyone knows that —but there is such a
thing as a squeezed orange.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) trill be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun •
tarily submitted; and no MS. trill be returned unless stamps accompany.
Horton B.: The dialect or whatever it is
becomes wearisome. Why did you write it that
way? Lloyd H.: That track is too well worn.
Glad to hear from you again....R. Van S.: Very
well done; but not much demand for that sort of
thing in this market... .Bart L.: Too long; and the
ending is poor. But well worth offering elsewhere.
R.V.: Just misses Screwnut: We love “The
Governor’s Decision’’ best. It is, we understand,
his W orship who speaks:—
So me and the clerk
Met him at the station.
The people, ranged up,
Gave him an ovation.
We questioned his Lordship
Whether he’d sooner
Have a civic reception
Or a formal dejooncr.*
He said in reply,
Looking round at the seats:
“Just show me the way—
Lead me to the eats.”
* French for a full blow-out.
. ...H.J.T.: See no reason to doubt your claim that
you wrote it- in a few minutes... .S.A.: It might
“seem good in places,” but this isn’t one of the
places CJ.H.A.: The best this morning. It hasn’t
been a good morning... .W.R.: Fair, but it doesn’t
soar A.K.: Try S. M. Hkkam>. •. .G.L.: “The
Pong’s Luck” is 0ut....M.H.: You sing:—
His fellow men for whom his heart hath bled
Are ever ready with malicious tooth
To strike him.
Seems a mobile sort of tooth I’ierre: Surprising
how many think that’s a new idea W'.S.P.: Both
helped out It.A.S.: “An Easter Tragedy” is a
fair enough name for your verse... .J.T.: Competent,
but quite empty.... C.H.E.: Botli miss fire... .M.Q.:
Nothing In that lot Raupo: In verse form preach-
ing is nearly always dull. .. .8.C.M.: We should not
encourage you on that sample... .J.lv.: It stopped
the office cat from purring.. • • A.C.A.D.: “The Wind”
is now blowing towards the Speck.... J. MacP.:
Can’t see why it should have been told in verse.
T.S.: “Surfboat Crews” dumped 5.H.8.: Not
for us. .. .Ripponlea: Come in, come in, with your
“Murderer’s Lament”:—
“She ever was a Minx
In early days of Courtship.
And then a sudden Sphinx
In latter days of Horsewhip.
“Now, on th’ Ground perceive
The Fool. She took a risk,” he
Sobbed into his sleeve.
“She went and pinched my whisky.
“To Death I’m now apprenticed.
But yonder smirking corpse
More gory than a dentist
Was once a venomous wasp.”
, ...L.5.8.: “Jerusalem” has fallen and the cat sits
on the ashes.... A.J.H.: “William Grey” blacked
out M.E.C.S.: Nearly... .M.L.P.: Picturesque but
inconsequential. .. .Adlih Soma: A dud.... W.8.: Arm
of coincidence a bit stretched... .J.F.: Drowned in
“the long lagoon with its tall gaunt gums flicking
their fingers at the stars” Jimmy Dux: A duck’s
egg, Jimmy. .. ,Z.: Already acquainted with Chaucer's
opinion of the month of April... . R.L.R.: Too
sketchy T.P.: Sorry; Bob deserves a tribute....
ICS.: Draws a blank A.G.: Lovers left in the
basket “wrapped up in each other”... .J.H.: No
doubt you’re right; so might be what they would
think of you. ...P.J.: Uninteresting. -. .1.N.: A
Rolling Stone” gathers as usual. .J. 8.5.; It still
misses R.J.: “Loud Calamitous Seas,” “bedazzling
monstrances of noons,” “dynastic daily suns,’ “eve s
meniscus ones,” “galactic night,” “Tyrtacon thunder
and the “\irtuous devout” are at least better than
the senile adjectives 90 per cent, use J. Ess:
Family saga in verse wearisome; the other better,
but not up... . F. 8.: Not very promising.... VV.P.G.:
“Conquest” has been said in other words too often.
Claim for awarded for week’s worst rhyme ’
taken to Arbitration Court. ... E. II.: Not for us, but
we’ve seen a lot worse.... The Jahiru: “The Tree
Kangaroo” hunted.. . .E.8.A.: Idea has our sympathy,
anyway W.T.: Failed to pass the guard... .W.E.:
Your assertion that it was the best you have ever
done is incredible. .. .C.E.L.: Not quite the weight.
B.O : No “poem”; it might be a puzzle
S.N.IL: A long way off G.E.M.: It gave us the
pip. .. .W.G-H.: (Had to hear that Mars has been
annexed by the British.... M.K.P.: lias a story, but
carelessly written 8.W.: Too many glittering
things like “I fondly hoped that palloring cheeks
were not betraying falsity of my pretension of gleeful
assent”....O.C.: Sentiment sounder than workman-
ship L.H.J.: Good as description, but no story.
. ...L.L.: “The Big Show” is only side-show size.
VV.r.B.: Idea fair; treatment bare....L.L.
(Auckland): Too obviously Kipling and water....
W.F.S.: Rather whiskery theme Heliodore: You
might be able to market the “Oats” somewhere
M.lt.L. : Clearly remember mentioning “Birdmen”
here. We did iiot fancy it Peaceful Politics: Oil
poured on “Storm in Parliamentary Teacup” and
match applied.... Armo: Sometimes we wish that
Omar had stuck to making tents.... Emel: As
experiments in French verse forms, they’re graceful
enough. But we do like a little bit of butter with
our bread Rolling Stone: One magnificent line: —
Both Mussolini and the other Ford.
K.A.J.: Still think it frail Carnac: Has
some merit, but not enough.... W.E. W. : Can't think
cl’ buying on samples to hand.... ALL.L.: “Surfers”
seem rather cramped.... J.M.E.: Not much in that.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.S.: Not in our line, but you might place it
elsewhere.. . .J.D.: It failed to stay the distance. .. .
G. : It might suit some other shop R. 5.0.: No.
. ...D.M.P.: Not good enough. .. .C.H.: Faint trace
of humor in the gag; drawing impossible... .M.E.:
You have a dogged faith in harsh, rigid linework.
. ...C.M.M.: Mick’s jest did not tickle our ribs....
H. : The lady is more interesting than the gent.,
but not interesting enough. .. .L.M.D.: Seemingly
the artist also met with an accident. .. .F.G.8.:
Little Mary is dull E.D. : Very stale gag.


w
G
&
C
I
r>
?V
v ♦
'me.


The Bulletin
Vol. 50. —No. 2565.
April 10, 1929.
ALL IN THE AIR.
Events of the past month have shown that Australian aviation’s greatest need is decent landing grounds.


The Bulletin
The lNational Australian Newspapei
‘Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
SH George Street, Sydney.
Victoria: Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: Si 9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to ant address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 l,s. ■ 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, 7s.
To ANT ADDRESS OVERSEAS; IS months, A 1 IUS. /
6 months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
rtji: 10 02., Id. United Kingdom: //Oz. to 10m., ltd.;
each additionalJoz., Id. All Sea Route: 16m., 7 id.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: l)Oz. or part thereof,
la. Klsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
Old Trader Horn
GEORGE CIIAFFEY, Pioneer Irrigator .. 6
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. .. f>
A LEASON CARTOON ... 7
EDITORIALS go
A TREASURER ON A TIGER’S TAIL . 8
CRIME AND THE CRADLE g
The High Cost of Stunts 8
THE BRISEIS DISASTER 8
MOTORS AND MILLIONS .. * . . . . <)
“NEW SUITORS,’’ u, Percival Cartoon .. .. !)
POLITICS (with caricatures) .. .. ..10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. .. H, l-j
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. .. ..14
POVERTY POINT 15
“THE WRONG BAIT,” by Scorfleld .. ..16
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..17
PAVLOVA—A New Study .. .. .17
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS .’ 18 20
THE A.M.P ’ 18
GENERAL INDUSTRIES (METTERS) ..18
A DISCOVERY OF TANTALITE . . .. 20
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 23, 23
Free Service Department .. 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 29
lIOW A CHAMPION PRIZE-TAKER GROWS
lIIS WHEAT 28
SMOKE-OH 32
“A Rogue in Amber” .34, 55, 58
PEN AND PICTURE 37
NEW MOVIES AND TALKIES . . .. 37
SPORTING (Illustrated) 39, 41, 42
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 44
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 46
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 49
VERSE 53, 58
Three Complete Stories—
“ The Salted Claim,” by <7- K. ?aton 51, 53
“THE CIVILISING OF SARONG BANTAL,”
by “Feng-Shui” . . . . . . . . 53
“BIM,” by Margaret Fane and Hilary
Lofting , .. 57, 58
dle!x//i
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 10, 1929.
ON A TIGER’S TAIL.
The British summary of oversea trade for
1928 shows Australia in the old foolish
spot, and some of its people are really
proud of the spot and wish it was larger.
Barring India, which has 60 times our
population, the Commonwealth is quoted as
the greatest buyer of John Bull’s exports.
It beats the United States, though Uncle
has 16 or 17 times as many people as we
have and should be able to spare a dollar
or two; also it beats Germany, France,
Canada, Argentina and 19 other customers.
Out of a list of 26 customers, only six
give John a helping hand by buying from
him more than they sell to him and paying
him the difference in cash, and Australia is
by habit one of the six. It finds the cash
with which to pay this difference by
borrowing it from John himself at
per cent, compound interest, but no
sacrifice seems too large provided the im-
porting boom is kept in good condition.
Nevertheless, English economists will write
some more scathing articles concerning our
“prohibitive” tariff, and the way we exclude
British wares from our markets, and what
should be done to us in consequence. And
W. M. Hughes, with his bob-tailed follow-
ing, will ask when the Government is
going to reduce the tariff, so that Australia
may produce less, and buy more abroad,
and borrow more to pay for it.
An agitated Page at Canberra, who came
into office when the storm was getting out of
bounds, is in the position of a man who
dare not let go the tail of the dangerous
animal, and is fast losing the strength to
hold on, and finds that the animal is losing
its temper and begins to ask what'is being
done with all the money. The Treasury
figures for the completed three-quarters of
the financial year are enough to agitate
anybody. The tariff revenue, and the Federal
revenue in general, began to fall heavily
for the first time in 1927-28, the tariff drop
being £2,000,000. This was objectionable;
the Treasurer wanted a great deal more in-
come instead of a good deal less, because
expenses, including interest on loans, in-
creased alarmingly. For the same reason he
wants a great deal more each year, and
having got it with almost unfailing regu-
larity for a good many years, the wearing
out of the luck was in the nature of a
personal insult. This year an increase is
even more urgently required for the same
reason, especially the big further expan-
sion of the account for interest, and the
nine months returns suggest another fall of
£1,500,000 as probable instead.
If the distracted Treasurer could add
another 15 millions or so per annum to
imports, he might collect enough duties on
them (in paper) to put his accounts right
till they go wrong again. But of late the
external debt has grown at the rate of
£35,000,000 or so per annum through im-
porting too much, and to increase this to
£50,000,000 per annum (if such a deed were
possible, which it isn’t) would so add to
the interest charge that the national
accounts would get wrong again as fast as
they got right. And it would be a most
serious act to suppress local production suffi-
ciently to make room for all these additional
foreign goods. That would knock spots off
the national income in all manner of ways,
and add a surprising demand for poor relief
to the national outgoings. If the demand
wasn’t met the nation would fall into dis-
credit just when it wanted more credit than
ever, and jagged things might be thrown
at the Cabinet.
As a preliminary step it might be well to
make a general increase in the tariff, with
perhaps a well-chosen discrimination against
“bad” customers—those who buy little from
us and sell us much. An average rise of 50
or 60 or 75 per cent, might meet the case,
and if one article was exempted as a matter
of policy it would always be competent
to raise another by 100 per cent., and thus
preserve the balance. The results aimed
at would be to greatly reduce imports and
thus save money, loan money more par-
ticularly; to extract as much tariff revenue
as at present from a greatly reduced mass
of goods; and to encourage local industry
at the same time. If critics in England and
elsewhere complained of the tariff being
“prohibitive” after that, the reply would be
that it was intended to be so, and that we
hoped it was.
It is, of course, among the possibilities
that Piddingtons and Beebys, aided by
Gardens and Ryans and Langs and John-
sons, would proceed to undo the work by
raising wages to ss. per hour and lowering
hours to correspond. In that case some
other policy would have to be adopted. It
wouldn’t be hard to find if looked for in
an earnest spirit.
CRIME AND THE CRADLE.
During last month’s debate on the Army
Act, the British measure which has to die
and be revived every year, the customary
motion for the abolition of the death
penalty for cowardice on active service was
defeated by only 66 votes. The humani-
tarians of Britain had never before got so
near success on this issue. Taken in con-
junction with the cabled news that, as a
sequel to the Royal Oak case, genuine
appeals are to be allowed against genuine
grievances in the Navy, it would seem that
the day of even-handed justice for all ranks
in the Services is fairly close.
At present the civilised world behaves
towards the offender on active sendee much
as it did in the Middle Ages. The higher
the position'of an incompetent soldier, and
the more damage he is in a position conse-
quently to do, the smaller the penalties with
which he is threatened. In the World War
thousands of privates were given sentences
of 28 days and upwards for “neglect of
duty”—which was often no more than
stupidity. Hundreds of captains and sub-
alterns were cashiered for it. Colonels were
sent home with a sympathetic word from
Division or Army. Generals were given
congenial home-service jobs, and, in many
cases, titles. They were shooting private
soldiers and subalterns for cowardice in the
British, French and German armies at the
rate of about one a day during 1918. But
no field officer faced a firing squad, though
many an officer of high rank had shown
the utmost reluctance to die for his country.
And this one thing is certain: there were
just as many cowards after 52 months of
executions as there were when the war
began.
For that and other reasons the world is
steadily approaching the conclusion that
severity is no cure for most of the crimes
against the institutions which man creates
for his safety and comfort.
In civil life at different times the most
drastic measures have been, tried. During
the Renaissance, which was the golden age
of poisoning in Europe, tortures, as well as
death, were prescribed for poisoners; and
still they flourished. Later, ‘in England,
thousands were hanged for theft; yet thefts
continued almost undiminished. In our
own time Prisoners’ Aid Societies, First
Offenders Acts, Children’s Courts and reli-
gious organisations strive vainly to succeed
where generations of hangmen and boilers-
in-oil failed. The reason for the recurrence
of crime waves all through the ages would
seem to lie in a discovery that the psy-
chiatrists claim to have made. They say
that the whole of the world’s crime is com-
mitted by about two per cent, of its popu-
lation. The percentage may be a shade
higher at a given time in, say, Chicago, and
a shade lower in London, but it is not
affected on balance by either harshness or
the other thing. Most crimes, it is said,
are the work, directly or indirectly, of the
same relatively few criminal specialists
That there is more in this than mere
academic theorising is suggested by the
experience of cities where gang-warfare
breaks out. It is only necessary, as Mel-
bourne found, to eliminate one or two thugs
for the “warfare” >0 be ended. Similarly,
Sydney’s razor-gangs will be found eventu-
ally, in all likelihood, to consist of half a
dozen habituals. Flogging, hanging, boiling
undoubtedly discourage imitators, but they
do not get at the root of the trouble any
more than execution-squads get at the root
of cowardice in battle.
The criminal of the future, like the
coward of the future, will be caught young,
At present the congenital thief is given the
license which the suspected homicidal
maniac enjoys—a variant of the dog’s right
to a first bite. Science says that congenital
malefactors should be signed up as moral
lunatics and segregated immediately a
responsible body of officials diagnoses them
as such—just as thousands of soldiers should
be signed up as morally unfit for front-line
service. Almost the only objectors are
likely to bg those who believe that, while
the Briton’s Palladium remains unsmirched
when lawyers deprive a member of the race
of his liberty, it is likely to be grossly defiled
when doctors perform the same function.
THE O’MOSES EXPERIMENT.
In 1930 unemployment in Melbourne
reached 20,000 and public concern was
thoroughly aroused. Great crises invariably
produce their great personalities, and it was
now that Mr. Andrew O’Moses rose into
prominence. Mr. O’Moses combined with
the organising ability of a captain of in-
dustry the constructive enterprise of a
Scotch engineer. He pointed out that un-
employment was always due to lack of work.
This dictum was enthusiastically agreed to.
He followed by remarking that if work was
provided, unemployment would disappear.
It was admitted that no flaw could be found
in this reasoning. All previous endeavors
to solve the problem, he proceeded, had
failed. When times were bad people ate
less, and had fewer babies. There was never,
however, any general loss of the appetite
for amusements. It was obvious, therefore,
that by catering for this appetite the com-
munity must find a permanent solution of
the problem of unemployment.
His first proposals were comparatively
modest. They included the building of an
ornamental boulevard for motorists to
follow the winding reaches of the Yarra;
the roofing-over .of the Jolimont railway
yards opposite Prince’s Bridge to provide
more space for motor drives, moving-picture
palaces and parks; and the erection of an
artificial island off St. Hilda for the accom-
modation of Katzenjammer castles and
scenic railways.
The last-named scheme, as it looked the
most expensive, was started first. It was
estimated to cost £5,000,000 and ended by
costing three times as much, thus providing
more employment than even its most san-
guine supporters had anticipated.
The genius of Mr. O’Moses captured the
popular imagination, conscience-smitten as
it was by the unemployment spectre. No
Government, Labor, Nationalist or other,
would have dared to oppose the wave of
self-sacrificing enthusiasm which swept over
the community. By 1931 several of the
schemes were well on their way to comple-
tion and unemployment had disappeared,
although the population had increased by a
quarter of a million. The success of the
Jolimont yards project, where 100,000 people
now found amusement nightly, was so
stupendous that it was proposed to roof-over
the entire city. By 1932 he was an unlucky
citizen who could not step out of his front
gate straight on to a revolving track
equipped with easy chairs which carried him
to his business or pleasures past scenes of
endless variety and beauty. Clerks, whose
working day had been reduced to 3i hours
so that the amusement parks might be kept
in business, walked out of their offices into
swift and noiseless lifts which conveyed
them to the city roof-garden, where the
casinos, tin-hare courses and Ferns wheels
were kept in continuous operation.
By 1933 the Government had abdicated in
favor of Mr. O’Moses, whose dictatorship
was gratefully accepted. The population
had risen to 2,000,000, all of them in con-
stant, if light, employment. The eyes of the
whole world were centred on the great ex-
periment. Collins-street presented an
unusual spectacle. Owing to the fact that
nobody worked more than hours a day,
that thoroughfare had been turned into a
gigantic skating rink. Most of the build-
ings had been hollowed out to make room
for moving pictures. The roof garden had
been enlarged by 11 storeys.
By 1936 the population had quadrupled.
Everybody took turns in patronising amuse-
ments and officiating over them. Every-
thing was done, under Mr. O’Moses’s
humanitarian sway, to prevent a cloud being
cast over the people’s pleasure. A strict
censorship over the newspapers forestalled
criticism by ill-informed persons overseas,
and local calamity howlers were permitted
to be lynched. During Mr. O’Moses’s
administration the depressing custom of
issuing budgets ceased.
It was the newspaper censorship afore-
mentioned which left the people so lament-
ably unprepared- for the crisis of 1938. It
was right in the middle of the Christmas
festivities when all the various methods of
abolishing unemployment were working at
their fullest capacity. A large crowd was
assembled to celebrate the erection of a
gigantic equestrian statue of Mr. O’Moses
when, to the astonishment of the charitably-
inclined merrymakers, a war fleet of mixed
foreign extraction steamed up Port Phillip
Bay and commenced landing marines accom-
panied by a cloud of bailiffs. The purpose
of the visitation was quickly learned. Mr.
O’Moses had financed his schemes with
heavy loans from abroad. The country
having become entirely deserted by people
seeking entertainment in the city, he had
omitted to remit interest on the money for
some considerable time. All threats to take
action had been stopped at the telegraph
offices. The result was as now seen,
As is the way in such cases, Melbourne’s
gratitude to its benefactor quickly evapo-
rated. Within an hour an infuriated mob
was storming the staircase of his incon-
spicuous office. The small, simply-furnished
room in which the dictator had thought out
his titanic schemes for the benefit of the
masses was, however, empty,
He turned up later in Italy. His mansion
on the beautiful island of Capri, situated
on the very tip of the precipice from which
the Emperor Tiberius used to hurl super-
fluous slaves, is considered to be one of the
most stately private residences in Europe.
M.G.S.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The High Cost of Stunts.
The good old ride that they who pay the
piper should have some say in nominating
the tune is honored more in the breach than
the observance when it comes to salvaging
stunt fliers. Kingsford Smith and his com-
panions elected to start upon their flight
to England at a time when two members
of the expedition were convalescing after
influenza; they set out in the month of
western cyclones, in the face of adverse
weather reports, and adopted a route which
men who know the North-West are agreed
was a highly hazardous one. Shortly after
their start their wireless sending apparatus
was damaged by some unexplained accident,
and apparently not repaired. The Southern
Cross sailed on to encounter the cyclonic
storms that were to be expected; lost its
way over an uncharted, rocky terrain,
uninhabited save by blacks and a few
missionaries, and disappeared from human
ken.
Immediately there was a demand from
the newspapers that had been boosting the
ill-considered enterprise that ’planes should
be sent from here, there and everywhere to
search for the missing men. W.A. Airways,
Ltd., detailed two of its mqnhines to con-
duct a reconnaissance, and had to
curtail its own immensely valuable services
in consequence. Its pilots, as may be
gleaned from accounts of their experiences,
undertook very serious risks. They were
flying over unknown country in which prac-
ticable landing-places are few and far
between, and they had to remain in the air
so long that their margin of petrol on
return to their bases must have been very
small. A big passenger ’plane was then
sent from N. S. Wales to join in the hunt
and to participate in the hazards which
brought the Southern Cross to grief.
The question arises as to the liability of
the general community in such cases. Where
flights are undertaken under official aus-
pices, to serve some purpose regarded as
beneficial by responsible authorities, the
onus on the nation to safeguard its ser-
vants as far as possible is quite clear. But
when private adventurers take foolhardy
risks it is very questionable if they have the
right to expect that valuable lives shall be
hazarded and essential sendees disorganised in
an attempt to retrieve the result of their
folly. While the hunt for the Southern Cross
continues (and of course it has had to con-
tinue) it is quite probable that sufferers
in the West who need hospital attention are
denied relief because ’planes are not avail-
able to carry them.
The stunt involving unnecessary risks is
a public nuisance, however gallant the
stunters, and it is time the fact was realised.
Briseis Disaster.
The shocking disaster at the Briseis mine,
near Derby, Tasmania, in which mine
and town were flooded and 14 people
drowned, calls for searching investigation.
The tragedy was due to the bursting of a
large dam which supplied the mine with
water and power, a wall of water 50ft. high
surging through the place and spreading
destruction everywhere. There is something
wrong with a system which permits the
existence of such an obvious danger to life
and property as a large dam high above the
level of a town full of people.
There is always risk in such circum-
stances, even with the most modem and
up-to-date works, as has been seen in similar
cases both in Britain and America. In this
case there was heavy rain before the acci-
dent, which should have tightened up pre-
cautions for insuring safety, such as the con-
tinued inspection of the retaining walls and
the posting of watchmen to give warning
if signs of a breach had shown. Nothing of
the sort seems to have been done, with the
result that many were trapped in their
houses without a chance of saving them-
selves.
It is not necessary—at this stage, at any
rate—to allot blame to any particular
quartet; but it seems an amazing thing that
a community should have been able to
huddle together directly in the path of an
ever possible danger. It is carrying our
proverbial casualness to the limit.,"


NEW SUITORS,
“In the British election campaign efforts are being centred upon the capture of the newly granted woman’s vote.”
MRS. JNO. BULL: “You look after the baby, John, while I go for a dance with one of these gentlemen.”
The Creation of New Wants.
The average American business man cordi-
ally approves of high wages; he knows that
a man can’t long spend more than he gets,
but that in general he will spend all he does
get. For the same reason the American
business man has long seen the importance
of cultivating new wants. When the motor-
car was first put on the American market
even the cheapest grade seemed utterly be-.
yond the capacity of the average toiler,
Henry Ford and the average toiler met
half-way; Henry reduced the price, and the
toiler worked a bit harder to get the means
to pay it.
As output increased, stronger and stronger
efforts had to be made and were made to
create new demands in order to absorb the
product. For nearly 10 years past we have
been hearing about “saturation point.” The
question begins to suggest itself: Is there
such a thing as saturation point anywhere?
Just at present, Henry Ford, with a
billion pounds behind him, is facing Alfred
Sloan, of General Motors, whose punch is
estimated at £800,000,000. In age, Sloan
has an advantage of 12 years over his
opponent, but Ford says he is as spry as
ever, and to prove it has gone to Germany
to superintend the erection of a vast
assembly plant. He already has a plant in
France, and his Dagenham works in Eng-
land are expected to provide him with
200,000 cars per annum. Sloan, with 80
millionaires to back him, has purchased the
famous Opel works in Germany.
n i tv/t + ri uu
General Motors, like the British rubber
planters nearly went bankrupt m 1921,
when the big slump reduced automobile
production in the States from 2,205,197 cars
to 1,592,041 But the enormous Morgan
financial interests came to the rescue and
since then the co s rise has been meteoric.
To-day it operates m over 100 countries,
employs 20 000 on its foreign staff and has
assembly plants everywhere. A feature of
TS 18 l tS ban f mg SyStC “v 1 lt r
over 20,000 branches and !S now rated as the
fifth largest bank m the world. Its sole
job is to finance the retail buyer, and last
£IOM0 S OO0 VanCeS m AuStraha al ° ne totalled
. .
The important weapons in this titanic
scrap are the new Ford and the Chevrolet,
The new Chev. lately arrived m this coun-
try. With six cylinders, four-wheel brakes,
numerous fancy gadgets and an appearance
that mignt almost be described as aristo-
cratie it is still nearly as cheap as ever.
general Motors anticipates making a quarter
million of the new model this year, which,
with the Fords makes close on 3,000,000
fresh flivvers to be absorbed by this planet,
Of course the planet could not absorb all
this without help. Always more and more
people have to be stirred up to want a
car—or another car. So these big American
motor people are taking a deep interest in
the road-making movement in China, Man-
churia, Mongolia, Siam and other benighted
countries which still pin their faith to the
rickshaw and the wheelbarrow. Judging by
what has happened when roads have been
built in China, there are 400,000.000 poten-
tial ’bus riders or flivver owners in the
Celestial Republic. Recently Ford offered
to make 100 miles of road in Egypt and
hand it over without cost to the Govern-
ment if he were allowed to import his cars
free of duty. It may be that competition
will become so keen that manufacturers
will give away highways to undeveloped
countries for nothing, just as the oil mag-
nates used to present lamps to the natives
to encourage the use of kerosene.
One point, however, needs stressing here.
, The creation of a want doesn’t supply that
want. Assuming that you have been living
up to the full extent of your means hitherto,
you can only supply an extra want in two
ways—(l) by earning more, (2) by borrow-
ing to pay the extra bill. If what you buy
will more than earn its keep, then borrow-
ing may be justified; if it won’t, and if you
don’t earn more, then the creation of new
wants is simply the creation of a shorter cut
to bankruptcy.
♦
The Open Shop.
“Suni-Cal”: As an Australian living near
Los Angeles (U.S.A.), I declare without
hesitation that the “Open Shop” is contri-
buting far more to the welfare of the labor-
ing classes in America than preference to
unionists is doing in Australia. Whatever
may be our theories about either system,
the final answer must come from the results
obtained by each. I ask myself two ques-
tions: (1) Could the existing depression in
Australia exist under Southern California’s
policy of Open Shop? (2) Would the pros-
perity of Southern California exist under
Australia’s policy of Union control? The
answer to both is most emphatically no.
In 10 years’ residence in Southern Cali-
fornia I have seen no prosperity here which
could not be produced in Australia by the
efforts of the same men. In other words,
it is not material resources but men that
have made that territory so very pros-
perous. But, judging by experiences in
other parts of the States, those men would
not have accomplished so much had their
efforts been obstructed by Union Labor
control. Preference to unionists hasn’t a
hope of being installed here. Employment
is open to anyone who can do the work
the way it needs to be done. The high
wages paid are open to all, and so is the
opportunity to advance to still higher-paid
positions. These are the main reasons why
labor is pouring into the industrial areas
surrounding Los Angeles. Piece-work
abounds in all the biggest factories, and
the prosperity of the working man is far
above average. I know no place where
the employee can make money quicker and
become an employer, assured of a clear road
ahead. In my own experience I found no
other obstruction to doing so than that of
competition of others in the same work.
At the same time I know that construc-
tive union leadership, acting in a liaison
capacity between employee and employer,
co-operating for the best interests of both,
is worthy of support. The greatest service
anyone can do for Australia to-day is to
work to that end. But so long as Trades
Unionism demands something for nothing,
fights for high wages and short hours, but
asks not that production go up in pro-
portion, it is badly led and merely obstruc-
tionist.
The Barracker.
“Lansdowne”: Cricket—big cricket, that is
—is admittedly undergoing strange changes,
but what it will end in if the proposition
laid down in “Cricket’s New Status” (B.
3/4./’29) is accepted as sound beggars im-
agination. “Nowadays,” says the writer,
“the public pays the cricketing piper top
prices, and it has every right to call the
tune, to register displeasure if the tune
isn’t played, and to require that its criti-
cisms shall be swallowed in silence.” Sup-
pose, then, that the public should take ex-
ception to the methods or the temporary
non-success of a particular bowler, which in
no way perturbs the umpires. And suppose
the captain exercises his. never-before-
questioned right to keep the man on. Would
the clamor subside? As far as we can
judge from recent ebullitions, it would im
crease. And if the captain defers to it,
and takes the man off, he is abrogating his
captaincy to the mob outside, admitting
that they are better judges of what should
be done than he himself is.
In the recent series of matches the worst
row was reserved for the Englishmen’s
second game against Victoria. It occurred
when Chapman requisitioned Larwood to
bowl at the last Victorian batsman,
Blackie. According to one version, the bar-
racking, at the outset, merely represented
a burst of amusement at the idea of an ele-
phant gun being aimed at a rabbit. But
when the gentry with the keen sense of humor
and the loud vocal organs realised that the
Englishmen were nettled, and that Chapman
was determined to hold up the game until
order was restored, the crowd became noisily
angry. There was a nasty impasse, which
Ryder terminated by closing the innings. In
effect, he thereby did what Chapman had
refused to do; his action took off Larwood,
in deference to the clamor. It may have
been tactful, but it was none the less a
weak concession to disorderliness.
♦
A-Class Men on C 3 Jobs.
Two social phenomena are common to most
of the States—increases in the general crime
figures and increases in attacks on the
police. In Victoria every year’s list of
criminal trials has been a record one of late
(the carry-over list for last month’s sitting
of the Vic. Supreme Court contained cases
which had been awaiting trial since the
previous September), and in N. S. Wales
last year, according to the Police Com-
missioner’s annual report, offences of all
descriptions totalled 13,000 more than in
1927.
The out-of-date lines on which all our
State police forces are run are greatly to
blame. The proper function of a policeman
is that of a front-line soldier in the war
against crime. Governments recognise the
principle by admitting to the force only
recruits who would be “A-class” men in war.
Yet shortly after these magnificent ohy-
sical specimens have been secured they may
be observed serving summonses on people
who have omitted to register their dogs,
patrolling harbor beaches to prevent bath-
ing, making domiciliary visits in connection
with the electoral rolls, masquerading as
fashionable revellers at night resorts in
order to catch breakers of the liquor laws,
and performing other duties which could
be done as efficiently by C 3 men or by
women.
In Britain, the country which invented
the modern policeman, and which has led
the world in crime-prevention methods ever
since, anomalies such as those mentioned
are coming to be realised. The Home
Office is formulating a new scheme of
traffic control which will abolish police as
traffic controllers (there are few spectacles
more ridiculous than that of a youthful
Hercules enforcing a law which no sane
person wants to violate, unless it be that of
a policeman with the physique of a heavy-
weight pugilist operating a type-writer!;
and it is likely that the British police will
be relieved of other unsuitable duties before
long. Judge Atherley Jones wrote recently
in the Sunday Dispatch :
I have come to the very definite conclu-
sion that the functions of the police should
be confined to the detection and preven-
tion of crime, in the popular meaning of
that term, and the arrest of criminals.
The effect of taking the police off petty
jobs, such as summons-serving, and degrad-
ing jobs, such as pimping on sly-grog sellers,
would be to increase their prestige and
popularity to a vast extent. Once it was
clearly understood that a policeman was a
fighting-man and nothing else, one who was
constantly on active service against the
armies of crime, he would begin to com-
mand an affectionate esteem which, unfor-
tunately for law and order, he cannot lay
claim to at present. It would be much more
dangerous to commit a crime, and much
more dangerous to assault a policeman in
the execution of his duty.
Policemen should be as highly esteemed
as shock troops are in war-time. It is the
fault of the system that their status is
little better than that of football referees.
+
Rail versus ’Bus.
The first round in the contest between rail
and ’bus in Melbourne has not gone to
Clapp’s department. Certainly the ’bus
companies suffered heavy losses; but the
railway revenues haven’t benefited appreci-
ably. The “’bus clubs,” which are merely
the oldest and most rickety motor-fleets
under a new name, are so satisfied that they
can drive through the Act that they have
printed their titles in large letters all over
their vehicles.
The department admits that it has been
badly beaten as far as the Mornington
Peninsula is concerned—and it is much the
same elsewhere. At great expense it put
on fleets of ’buses at the railway termini,
hoping thus to induce the people to
patronise the trains. But still the popula-
tion mysteriously got to its destinations by
road. Then it was found that the unemployed
’busmen had got small cars which, as they
are supposed not to carry more than five
persons, are immune under the Act. As
they only pay the usual private taxation
these free-lances can undercut the railways,
and they obviate the tiresome changes.
The irony of it is that it was Clapp who,
by putting on the fine direct railway ’buses
(now withdrawn), taught the people to seek
and appreciate door-to-door travelling.


ML RESERVE-
Iarvd Whisky
RED, WHITE and BLUE
WHISKY
Gaelic Special Reserve
DEARER-
BUT BETTER
ORME., REIGWIN & CO., LTD.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN AGENTS: JAMES HENTY & CO., 499 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND A.GENTS: B. SEPPELT & SONS, LTD., 444 QUEEN STREET, BRI SBANE.
GIkELiQ
land Whisky
m-
POLITICAL
POINTS
Broken Hill enjoyed a fairly luminous row
lately when the miners received short notice
mi a re^llc ti°n of 12i per cent, in wages.
Ihe hard-hearted employers weren’t respon-
sible this time; the union bosses had made
a levy. It was explained that there was
no appeal, and that motions of dissent and
amendments were out of order. In fact, no
one was in order except the chairman, and
he was in order because he said he was and
disqualified everybody who said he wasn’t.
One of the newspapers suggested that the
Kingsford Smith-Ulm ’plane might have come
down near “Fort” George. There are no
forts in North Australia, hut there ought
to be at least a few. An adaptation of the
old American system of army posts, each
with its landing-ground and two or three
’planes, would be valuable in many ways.
Apart from the obvious advantages to de-
fence and civil aviation, each post would be
a nucleus of settlement.
The Commonwealth Parliament closed
down at an opportune time for the Queens-
Josiah Francis,
M.H.R.
land Opposition ; with
six Senators and eight
Representatives avail-
able, A. E. Moore’s
party, though handi-
capped by gerryman-
dering and the memory
of its repeated defeats,
> can now muster nearly
as many Parliamentary
speakers as the other
side. One of the Fed-
erals whom it can de-
pend upon for good
service is ex-Digger
.Tosiah Francis, who
has made Moreton so
impregnable that
Labor did not oppose
him in November. The
State division of
Ipswich is included in
Francis’s electorate.
Dave Glcdson, Secre-
tary for Labor and
Industry, is M.L.A.
for Ipswich, and his
opponent has a sport-
ing chance of unseat-
ing him, though the Minister’s majority last
time was over 800.
Australia is spending between £500,000
and £600,000 p.a. on the air defence of the
continent, and some people think this ought to
be enough. Yet the R.A.A.F. could not pro-
duce, on a week’s notice, a ’plane capable
of proceeding to North Westralia and making
reconnaissance flights. Wackett was ordered
to undertake this service in his Widgeon 11.
When it was loaded up with enough petrol
to get to the coast the seaplane refused to
rise sufficiently high to clear the mountain
ranges it was to cross. Wackett, very
properly, refused to play with the loaded
dice handed to him. It wasn’t his fault —
but what would have happened had an enemy
force landed in North Westralia?
If Commander Byrd confers the Antarctic
continent on his native country, Uncle Samuel
will own 9,208,000 square miles of the earth’s
surface. It might be well to hurry up with
Mawson’s idea of making a permanent settle-
ment on the most favorable corner of the
Antarctic by way of asserting our claim, and
also having a look at the gold deposits.
Finding it difficult to get an Agent-
General, the Vic. Cabinet has turned in
desperation to its own Honorary Minister
Marcus Saltau, M.L.C. If Marcus is un-
willing, Leitch, who used to be on the Tariff
Board, is to be sounded.
Alfred Downward.
Downward, the
hardy old Vic. politi-
cian who became a
.Cabinet Minister at
77, after having been
an Assemblyman for
30 years, is retiring at
the end of the present
Parliament, and
already there is a rush
for his Mornington
seat. The Nats, and
the Labs, are after it
(there are two Labor-
ites up for selection),
and it is hoped that
the Country Progs,
and the Prohibitionists
and the Age’s “Liberal
party” will join in.
1 townward himself is
Country-party, an d
once that party
annexes a constituency
it hangs on.
N. S. Wales is pro-
mised another deficit
at the close of the
financial year, and this
will probably mean that the Treasurer will
skurry round like a demented hen devising
new taxes to put on the people. No one
knows what better Bavin could expect when
his colleague Buttonhole assures the people,
as he did recently, that next year the posi-
tion will be “infinitely better,” and that the
State will then really bog in at supplying
loan railways—the sort which cost 5£ per-
cent. interest and earn none of it, and don’t
even cover expenses.
At Brisbane conference the other day
State Governor Goodwin mentioned the re-
ceipt of telegrams from Boulia, in South-
West Queensland, saying that heavy rain had
fallen there after a. dry interval of three
or four years. As the usual result, children
who had never seen sky-water before were
badly scared. Boulia is on or near the track
to which some Queensland and N. S. Wales
politicians want the great South-to-North
.railway diverted, and so are many places
like it, including Birdsville.
One good result of the Kanowna sinking
is an alteration to the regulations under the
Navigation Act making it compulsory on
vessels carrying fewer than three wireless
operators to install automatic alarms. The
auto, alarm is attached to the receiving set
before the operator goes to his bunk; ordi-
nary communications leave it undisturbed,
but the powerful cry for help sets it off.
One trouble is that strong electric dis-
turbances are likely to affect the device, so
there is a danger of its crying “Wolf” too
often. Even so, it is a decided impx-ovement
on the present method of leaving ships deaf
for half the night.
While timber-workers in Sydney and Mel-
bourne have been striking for the 44-hour
week, their opposite numbers across the
Tasman have joined with the employers in
asking the Government to place an absolute
prohibition on the importation of dressed
timber, doors, sashes and other ready-made
units of building construction. What they
want is not less work but a lot more.
One Calwell stirred up things at the Vic.
Labor conference by moving that Labor should
be forbidden to take office unless it has a
majority of its own in the Leg. Assembly.
At the instance of Drakeford, M.L.A., it
was decided that the central executive as
well as the Parliamentary caucus should
consent before Labor carried on with a
minority buttressed by auxiliaries. Drake-
ford was subsequently made president and
Calwell one of two vice-presidents. The only
difference between Labor and the Country
party in respect to office now, it seems, is that
Hogan’s bunch must have all the contents
of the tart-shop, while Allan’s lot is content
to share them with some other party. In
each instance the sanction of Parliamentary
caucus and outside executive is required.
The early industrial Arbitration Courts
in Australia were non-compulsory; the prin-
ciple of compulsion was first placed on a
Statute Book in Maoriland. After 35 years’
trial of it both employers’ and employees’
leaders in the Shivery Isles have come to
the conclusion that compulsion ought to
be dropped. A joint recommendation has
been made to Parliament that the law should
be amended so that a dispute not settled
by a Conciliation Council shall not go to
the Court unless assessors on both sides
agree. Only one exception is made—in an
industry where 60 p.c. of the employees are
females the dispute must sro to the Court.
In a number of actions listed at Bendigo
recently the plaintiffs were eight people,
mostly farmers, who had been induced to
subscribe for shares in a life-insurance con-
cern so new that its name hasn’t got into
the official list of such companies. Defendant
was the broken wraith of the company.
There was a hurried settlement, the com-
pany agreeing to release the eight from all
liability for calls, and, though it didn’t give
them back the money got by devices which
it evidently wasn’t worth while defending
in court, they were granted the right to
come in with the other creditors when the
assets, if any, are realised on. Britain has
taken measures to deal with the share-
hawker, and Australia may do the same
some day. But this country’s "some day”
is a dreadfully long way off.
The theory that whenever an industry is
dying or dead the taxpayers should be called
upon to resuscitate it has been embraced
by A. E. Moore, leader of the anti-Labor
forces in Queensland. Moore proposes to
subsidise wages so that the Mt. Morgan mine
may be re-opened. Such a process has never
revived a moribund industry. In any analy-
sis it is revealed only as a species of charit-
able aid, and British experience of that, past
and present, shows that in the long run it
stifles one undertaking after another under
a load of excessive taxation.
Lloyd George will have a monopoly at the
British election of his rainbow idea of bor-
rowing hundreds of millions, and putting
hundreds of thousands of unemployed to
work on jobs they know little about and for
which there is no urgent demand. Speaking
on behalf of Labor, Ramsay MacDonald has
repudiated David as a fraud. Still, Ram Mac
may veer round, or be forced by his party to
do so, if the loan policy shows signs of
catching votes, especially Labor votes.
The report of an epidemic of small-pox in
India drew from Dr. Argyle, Vic. Minister
for Health, the revelation that not four p.c.
of children born in his State are submitted
for what is politely called compulsory vacci-
nation. The parents of all the rest are alleged
to be conscientious objectors. It is pretty cer-
tain that if small-pox did arrive many of the
people who object to their babies having this
safeguard would rush to the State clinics
for injections. A good way to test the sin-
cerity of their principles would be to impose
a small tax on every uninoculated baby, the
proceeds to go to the building up of the
emergency equipment which will be needed
when an outbreak happens.
J. R. Lee, N.S.W.
Minister for
Justice.
Another effort is
being made to secure
the release of Mrs.
Mort, who shot Dr.
Tozer in her Sydney
suburban home eight
or nine years ago and,
found not guilty on
the ground of insanity,
has been in. prison
ever since. Her friends
had high hopes of suc-
cess when W. J.
McKell was Minister
of Justice, but that
young man passed on
the problem to his suc-
cessor in the Lang
Scabinet, which passed
it on to J. R. Lee.
Now Lee—mindful of
a recent happening in
Westralia—would like
to pass it on to some-
one else.
It was suggested to
Vic. Treasurer Mc-
Pherson the other day
that now was the time
for his Government
(which hasn’t a
feather to fly with)
to provide a subsidy
for a permanent orchestra in Melbourne.
The music-lovers stated that as a result
of many years of persistent endeavor they
had collected £lO,OOO towards the project.
What they omitted to state was that a mag-
nificent offer by James Dyer led to such a
frantic squabble amongst the various musi-
cal organisations that Dyer was obliged to
put the money in the bank pending the time;
when the rivals could compound their differ-
ences. The McPhairson cautiously remarked
that he was in full sympothy with the depu-
tation’s aims, and promised to refer the
matter to his colleagues.
The devastation of Derby by the bursting
of the Briseis mine’s dam was only part of
the calamity which floods—the worst in
the island’s history—have brought upon
northern Tasmania. Other towns were inun-
dated, bridges were carried away, and rail-
way lines, power plants, dwellings, boats,
crops and livestock are included in the cata-
logue of disaster. The loss of life was cruel
—3l is a late estimate—and the material
damage is reckoned at anything from half a
million to a million sterling. It is question-
able whether the Commonwealth may be
fairly charged with responsibility when a
spectacular flying venture, conceived in a
spirit of sensationalism, ends unfortunately;
but here is unquestionably a case for national
help. And the help should be swift and
generous.
Though his Adel-
John Brown.
aide interests are
enough to keep him
busy, Wallace Bruce
has come over to Syd-
ney again to take the
chair at a conference
of Newcastle-Maitland
mineowners and min-
ers’ representatives, at
which the re-opening
of. the pits will be dis-
cussed. He will have
his work cut out, for
both sides are suspi-
cious and resentful.
The employers’ organ-
isation is darkly un-
derstood to be an-
noyed with the other
Bruce for bringing a
lock-out case against
John Brown. How-
ever, it raised a laugh
—or somebody did—
by announcing that it
would foot John’s bill.
The millionaire im-
proved the occasion by
paying 2600 guineas for a yearling.
Having already made its income-tax more
burdensome to industry, the N.S.W. Bavin-
shaw Government lias- reimposed and added
to the tax on wages bills (it is 2 p.c. this
time) to pay for its opponents’ child-
endowment plus strike- and unemployment-
relief measure. Labor-member Curtin, in
the minority report of the Commonwealth
Royal Commission on Child Endowment,
rejects this impost as “unjust”:—
Obviously it must act as a discouragement to the
payment of high wages and to the employment of
skilled men. The greater the average amount paid
in wages per employee by any firm the greater the
tax paid by that firm, while at the same time the
smaller the benefits received by its employees. Not
only is it to the advantage of the employers to pay
lower wages, but no account is taken of their
profits. A large amount paid in wages may go
with small profits, and vice versa.
It is an open secret that many N.S.W.
Labor and Nationalist M’s.L.A. (a majority
of the House, in fact) are of the same
opinion as the rising young man from Fre-
mantle, but they are afraid to say so and
to vote accordingly. The party machines,
with their pre-selection weapon, make
cowards and humbugs of them all.
Rightly taken, the imbecile and oppressive
child-endowment tax has been imposed on
N. S. Wales by Industrial Commissioner
Piddington, the A.L.I*. executive and the
executive of the National Association.
“Piddo” because he is the chief author of the
child-endowment scheme; the A.L.P. bosses
because they reckon child-endowment a
vote-winner and the tax a means of “putting
the boot into the capitalist”: the other cabal
because Sydney “Nationalism” is a watery
imitation of Laborism, being too scared to
take a line of its own. The majority is sup-
posed to rule, but in N. S. Wales it doesn’t
—the party machines rule. And they will
continue to rule until an end is made of
their power to ruin men politically for ex-
pressing honest convictions and acting upon
them.
A Melbourne case, in which a deserted
wife failed to get damages from the other
woman for loss of her husband’s affections,
has lashed local feminists to fury. They point
out that, whereas a wronged husband can
get substantial compensation from a co-
respondent, a wife has to be content with
alimony. The males retort that they are
liable to be put into a debtor’s prison inde-
finitely if they are unable to provide the
alimony. An example cited is that of a
man unable to obtain employment who has
been languishing in gaol for a twelvemonths
As he is unskilled in any trade available in
prison he cannot earn anything, so the State
has to support the wife and children as xvell
as the husband.
“Sol M.”: It is possible, that the TJ.S.
authorities are less certain than they thought
they were when they served out Jedburgh
justice to the Canadian alleged rum-runner
I’m Alone. The latest report is that the
preliminary hearing of the case against the
captain and crew has been twice postponed
pending inquiry, but the department won’t
drop the matter “if the investigation discloses
violation of the law.” Probably measure-
ments are being taken of the distance from
the shore to the spot where one party says
the defunct vessel was and the other swears
its wasn’t.
BOWLED OUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Because liquor leaked out of his baggage on the
station at Jacksonville, Florida, Congressman
Michaelson, a ‘bone-dry’ advocate, was arrested.
Search of his valise disclosed six bottles of whisky,
two quarts of creme de menthe and one quart of
cherry brandy.”— Cable.
He was a Dry. All Congress knew his views
Upon the rank accursedness of Booze,
lie shunned no effort, and he spared no pains
To keep his land bound fast in Volstead
chains,
Launching denunciations hot and high
Gainst potions brewed from grapes and malt
and rye.
He was a Dry.
With voice and vote a cogent case he put
For the evangel preached by “Pussyfoot.”
Bootleggers he would slate with virtuous
vim,
Speak-easies were anathema to him.
Corrupt officialdom with scorn he smote,
Stood for the Law and all it might denote
With voice and vote.
That d—d valise wherein a cork came loose!
How small a thing can cook a fellow’s goose,
Give a staunch Rechabite his coup de grdee
And relegate him to the Stiggins class!
Make corrugated lines his forehead crease
While from his course he’s hustled by police.
That d—d valise!
That he was Wet was placed beyond a doubt;
His leaky dunnage blabbed and blew him out.
He crashed, like Lucifer from Heaven to
, Hell,
He toppled down as Humpty Dumpty fell.
And as the bottles in a row they set,
Mute witness of his drouthiness, you bet
That he was wet!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
QUITE OVER THE ODDS.
HUSBAND: “Surely you’re not going to a dance in that frock!”
WIFE: “John, you honestly don’t expect me to go er—like Eve,
do you?”
“Flagwagger”: Until I met Jim Blank
recently it seemed to me that we were at
Anzac only the other day. He was corporal
of our section, and because he was always
overflowing with youthful energy we young
’uns doubted that he was really 45. But
when Jim and I met, for the first time in
years, he had with him a young man whom,
because of the strong family resemblance,
I took for his son, until he addressed Jim
as “grandfather.” Noticing the shock this
gave me, Jim administered another by in-
forming me that he was a great-grandfather.
I refused to believe it until, his grandson
corroborating, Jim set forth that .he was
now aged almost 59 years, that his eldest
son was aged 40 years, his grandson 19
years and his great-grandson four months.
I’m now a few months short of 32 years, but
the knowledge that I was at Anzac with
one now a great-grandfather makes me teel
pretty ancient.
$ * s* 6 **
“Lex”* The story about the share in a
fortune of £1,000,000 which is awaiting
members of the Tasmanian, fetump family
in England has more holes in it than most
yarns of the kind. The money is alleged to
have been left by one Mansfield to lus wife
in the early part of last century for use
during her life.” On her
death “it was to revert to
the Mansfield family.” How-
ever, “the wife, or her
advisers, tied up the money
for a period of 100 years.’
Since the lady only had a
life interest in the estate it
was out of her power to tie
it up. And in any event
Thelusson’s Act (1800) was
passed with the express
object of preventing this
kind of thing. The Act re-
strains testators from devis-
ing property for accumula-
tion for longer than 21 years
and a life in being.
tf * *
“D.”: Three tries have
been made to raise Oaligulo’s
houseboats which were sunk
in Lake Nemi nearly 1900
years ago (B. 3/4/’29). The
first was in the fifteenth, the
second in the sixteenth cen-
tury, and the third some 30
years back. All failed, as
the larchwood hulls were
rotten. However, the divers
learned much that was of in-
terest during their opera-
tions, and notably that the
largest of the three galleys
contained enormous quanti-
ties of gold and silver, and
was as big as the average
Italian liner. If the astute
Italian Government can urn
cover these ships it will
make Nemi the Mecca of
wealthy tourists for years to
come. In addition the bed
of the lake must be a gold-
mine. Rich pilgrims had been crossing it,
bound for the Grove of Nemi and its rites,
for over a thousand years before the north-
ern barbarians appeared and revolutionised
the life of the nation.
jji sis J » { *
“Zorro”: Waimea County, Nelson,. pos-
sesses something unique in Maoriland, if not
in the Southern Hemisphere, in some miles
of road paved with fine marble. These roads
are near the quarries at Takaka, and it is
found cheaper to use the home product than
employ the customary surfacing material.
... j|; *
“Adelaide”: An “easy mark” straight out
of Yankee fiction has been telling his sad
story in a South Aus. police court. A gipsy
woman came into
the bank where he
was teller, and
after obtaining
some change offered
to do some telling
herself: she would
reveal his fortune,
but he must hold
money in his hand.
He started with
threepenny - bits,
made it small notes
at her request, and
then big ones,
which, she said,
would make divin-
ing easier. Finally
he was holding out
to her about £7OO
in fifties and twen-
ties, and she was
impressing on him,
“No look! Bad
luck.” When the
Romney lady had
left he •was amazed
to find his cash
£l2O short.
* *
“J.C.”: It isn’t
only beauty actors
and screen sheiks
who are liable to
evoke the adoration
of impressionable
females. The
8.8. C. (London)
no longer includes
the name of the an-
nouncer in its pub-
lished wireless pro-
grammes, as was
customary in the
early days of
broadcasting. One
of the i reasons for
the change is that
one silver-tongued
announcer was the
recipient of a con-
tinuous stream of
letters from a
woman who had
fallen in love with
his voice. He did
his best to keep her
at bay, but she be-
sieged Savoy Hill
so consistently that
at last he consented
to meet her. His
embarrassment was complete when the lady
explained that she had a private aeroplane
and entreated him to fly away with her.
* * * -1!
“Narara” : Although not a hardened crimi-
nal, I spent 48 hours in a police cell before
I was into my ’teens. I was putting in
Sunday afternoon with a chum, the son of
the local police-constable, when a game of
marbles developed into an argument and that
into a noisy scrap. My opponent’s dad,
who had been trying to have a sleep, inter-
fered, and half-grimly, half-jocularly
immured us in adjoining cells in the lockup
behind his house. “That’ll keep you quiet
for a bit,” he said. He had just resumed
his snooze when a messenger arrived with
news of a shooting affray in a timber-
getters’ camp about 40 miles away, and the
officer at once saddled up and went off at
a gallop, clean forgetting his youthful cap-
tives. He took the keys with him, and we
“stayed put” till Tuesday afternoon, when
he returned with a prisoner. However, his
wife gave us food and blankets through the
grills in the doors. And we were a pair of
young heroes among the other youngsters
for months afterwards. What my dad said
to the policeman when he returned is another
story.
SHE GOULD PRODUCE HER OWN EXAMPLES.
MRS. SUBURB: “And what is the book about, Mr. Nibbs?”
MR. NIBBS: “Oh, heredity and that sort of thing. Do you believe in it?”
MRS. SUBUEB: Why, of course! I’ve got two of the brightest children you ever saw.”
“Ming”: Our weekly lady-help of the
washtub removed a peg from her mouth and
asked if she might take home a few sprays
of fern from the garden, as her family were
giving a party that evening. “I suppose
you want to get home early,” remarked Aunt
Jane as she clipped the foliage required.
“Oh, no,” said Mrs. Sudds easily, “there’s
no need for me to ’urry. Dad’s ’ome on
strike an’ can get things ready. That’s
why we ’ad the party this week.”
* $ * *
“Mako”: I once knew a pillar of the Pres-
byterian Church who gave his son a shilling
to put in the plate on some special occasion,
and discovered that evening that the youth,
who was anticipating a school holiday at the
seaside, had traded away the bob for a fish-
ing-line. The boy was to start for the beach
next day, his fare was already paid and
would not be refunded, so there was no time
to be lost. After tea the old gentleman
mounted his ancient horse and jogged to the
manse, where he solemnly paid a shilling
into the good cause; on his return he got the
erring youth out of bed and gave him the
thrashing of his life. That the boy returned
safely from the seaside, Dad attributed wholly
to his prompt precautionary action with the
shilling.
* * * *
“Morkum”: Reasons for enlisting? One
morning in the early days of the conflict a
Sydney telegraph operator came on as usual,
and was placed on a South Coast line. This
line always “works heavy”; on that parti-
cular morning it was a nightmare. Pre-
sently, without permission, the operator left
the room. A few days later he turned up
in uniform. “I’d sooner fight the whole Ger-
man Army than work that South Coast line,”
he explained to the manager. The depart-
ment, of course, sanctioned his departure,
lie gave up his life in France.
* * * *
“Hayband”: It is surprising what a span
of years can be bridged by an aged father
and an aged son. I (aged 43) have talked
with a man whose father remembered and
often spoke of the “discovery” of Australia by
Captain Cook in 1770, and the departure
from England of the famous First Fleet for
Botany Bay. The father himself arrived in
Australia in ISO 6. The son was born on
the Ilawkesbury in 1815, and died at Rooty
Hill (N.S.W.) in 1910.
* * * *
“1.D.”: The London ’busman hasn’t got
it: all his own way in the matter of terse
witticisms. On a recent soaking morning I was
buying apples from a Sydney barrowman,
and remarked conversationally, “A horrible
day, isn’t it?” He glanced at the dismal
prospect, and came back with: “Yes! An’
y’re praisin’ it!”
* * * *
“Mudurup”: Printed that the Spanish
priests at the Drysdale Mission in Nor’-
Westralia (recently put on the map for
easterners, anyhow, by the ill-fated Southern
Cross) didn’t know that the war had ended
till Sept.. 1920, when a sloop of war brought
the gratifying intelligence that the Allies
had triumphed. Still, coming from one of
the few European countries that remained
neutral, they may have' been less keenly
interested than most people in Australia.
The parent institution at New Norcia (100
miles from Perth) has always preserved a
rather rigid detachment or aloofness from
secular and political matters. Except once.
I still recall when the Federation vote was
taken in W.A., and jubilant crowds were
applauding every return that showed that
the West was determined to cast in her lot
with that of her sisters, a telegram suddenly
arrived which showed where the diehards
were making their last stand. It was from
New Norcia, and read something like this:
“Yes, 3. No, 114.” The brothers had obvi-
ously gone to the poll as one man and turned
down what seemed to them like a dangerous
experiment.
* * * *
“Shop”: Of all “rest camps’’ I have ever
seen the one that impressed me most was
outside Biesmes, where we ended up our
march towards the Rhine, and where in
1914 the villagers lay huddled in their cellars
whilst German and British artillery pounded
each other over the roof-tops. Well behind
the German lines for the rest of the war,
and enclosed by high walls, the cemetery,
with wide gravel paths and flowering shrubs,
was divided by an artistic memorial into
two portions, one for fallen British and
French troops, the other for Germans. The
front of the memorial was inscribed in Ger-
man, and the reverse paid a tribute in
English and French. No distinction had
been made in the design of graves between
officers and men or friend and foe. Hundreds
of black stones, all of uniform pattern,
gave details about those who slept beneath.
Belgian civilians had carried on with the
upkeep of the cemetery after the German
retreat.
» * * *
“H. Bernina”: Touching Scriptural texts
as mural decorations (B. 27/3/’29), the bank
in our township is in occupation of tem-
porary premises. The former tenant left
a framed text in what is now the manager’s
room, and that gentleman, who is something
of a humorist, has thought fit not to disturb
it. Consequently the first thing you read
on entering the sweating pen is “Let not your
heart be troubled” !
* * * *
“Bumpkin” : The old dictum that the cap-
tain shall be the last to leave a sinking ship
will soon have to be amended in favor of
the radio operator. When the wheat ship
Selje was sunk in a collision with the Kai-
tuna off the Victorian coast the other night,
Sparks (W. W. Cleaver) continued to send
out messages long after the rest had taken
to the boats. One result of his sticking to
his post was that just before the vessel took
the final plunge no less than 12 steamers
were hastening to the spot.
“Russ”: A Melbournite received a queer
surprise w'hilst in his bath. The batli-
lieater was in action when a small voice,
apparently coming from nowhere, became
audible. The listener soon recognised the
voice as that of his daughter, singing in
the studio of a near-by broadcasting station
and made audible by some mysterious means
per medium of the heater. Another radio
phenomenon is a striped pole hanging in
front of a barber’s shop in Gippsland (Vic.).
At times this picks up the programmes
from stations and reproduces them at fair
strength. The nearest receiver is 20 yards
away and there is no connection between the
talking pole and the set.
if * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: A bunch of needy
citizens who strayed into a Sydney cafe the
other day, consumed square meals and told
the proprietor to “send the bill to Bavin,” were
disagreeably surprised to find that they could
be, and indeed were, arrested and charged
at the police-station. Their mistake lay in
selecting a cafe with a wine license for their
escapade. Whilst the ordinary eating-house
has to depend upon the honesty of its cus-
tomers, and in default of it can only sue
by summons for money owing, the man
who is a licensed purveyor of drink and
food can give a delinquent in charge for
defrauding him. But sometimes even the
unlicensed food suppliers can get back on
cheating customers. A couple of years ago
a noted Sydney pie-shop was victimised by
a man wdio had somehow got hold of a book
of lunch-dockets. Having consumed an ex-
tensive meal, he would destroy the docket he
received from the waitress and substitute at
the cash-desk one of his own filled in for a
mere ninepence. He worked the trick once
too often, wdth the result that he w'as
awarded a term of imprisonment—for forgery.
AT CHOWDER BAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"Thirty years ago mixed bathing was prohibited
in Sydney, except at Chowder Bay, now known as
Clifton Gardens. There the denizens of the ’Loo
and the Hocks, of both sexes, held high carnival on
Sunday afternoons, untrammelled with costumes and
unmolested by the law, until the scandal became
too great.” —S. M. Herald.
O Gardens denominate Clifton
Where weekly the picnickers land,
And cloud-wisps as lazily drift on
The sky as the waves on tin' sand,
Did your glades to light laughter ring louder,
I wonder, than ever td-day
When the rollicking prefix of Chowder
Distinguished your bay?
Did your cliffs with their gums and their
gorges
Look down on such scenes in the past
As moralists designate orgies
And preachers with homilies blast?
Did you watch from your slopes circumval-
lant,
As to blazes conventions they threw,
The girl from the Rocks and the gallant
From Woolloomooloo?
Did their contours wake thoughts of Apollo
Disporting with Dian awhile,
The sheik whose address was Frog Hollow
And the maid from the Cut of Argyle?
Were there pulses that quickened and tingled
As the Riley-street beau and his belle
o Nature returned and commingled
Both au naturel?
We shift and bedeck and bedrape us”
E’or surfing—they scorned the constraint.
Ah, how many pictures escape us
There’s no one to etch or to paint!
To classics for mad Saturnalia
What need for an artist to go?
’Twas here, to his hand, in Australia
Three decades ago.
Can you glimpse them, the buck with his
madam
Or miss, asking nobody’s leave
To be lightly accoutred as Adam,
Apparelled as sparsely as Eve?
By coppers unhindered, unharassed,
They romped in abandonment sheer—
And for any who might feel embarrassed
I’ll bet there was beer.
0 Gardens reformed and rechristened,
With your booths and your baths and your
lawns,
Where curves of nude naiads once glistened
In the sun, arid the torsos of fauns,
Did laughter, I wonder, ring louder
In haunts where our picnickers go
When mixed bathers knew you as Chowder
And trunks were de trap?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Morita”: The craze for decorations when
visitors are expected is not confined to State
schools. I was at a country camp school, and
our score of bell tents on the town show-
ground were a big attraction on Sunday after-
noon. To add to th: camp’s appearance a
prize in the way of special leave was offered
for the best-decorated tent. Although nothing
ornamental grew on the showground our tent
romped home, smothered in palm branches.
One of the town’s leading lights gave the
verdict. He didn’t say much at the time to
boom up our efforts, but his comments
started off properly when he got back home
and found bare palm trunks in the middle of
his lawns.
* * * *
“Let Go” : Touching these war decorations,
I know of one which did more for a Digger
than all the doctors and nurses. He had been
badly knocked in a stunt, and after portion of
his leg had been amputated at the Base hos-
pital in Cairo, the attendant M.O.’s reckoned
it was only a matter of hours before he
turned it in. He’d been a good soldier, and
word of his low state reaching his O.C. de-
cided the latter. Two decorations were to be
given for this particular stunt, and when
a wire reached the hospital informing the
seemingly dying man that he’d been awarded
the D.C.M., he took a new lease of life.
I can vouch for it, for I occupied the same
ward.
* * * *
“M.G.S.” : The latest scientific intelligence
is that an archaeological expedition sponsored
by Lord Melchett is to go to Jericho to
investigate the story of the walls of that
city having been felled by the blasts of trum-
HER HAND WAS WELL IN.
“Darling, I’m sorry. I didn’t mean to come home in that state again. Can you
forgive me?”
“Well, I ought to be able to. Goodness knows I’ve had enough practice!”
pets. This suggests that British scientists
have abundant leisure on their hands, and I
would suggest other avenues of inquiry.
They might inquire into the Wak-
Wak of the Philippines, who had the
power of dividing themselves at the
middle, the lower part remaining behind
while the upper part grew wings and assumed
the habits of the vampire. They are well
authenticated by the Spaniards. The
botanists might investigate the geese which
grew on trees in the form of nuts,’ and,
falling into the sea, swam away as goslings.
The evidence for them was so strong that
the Paris Sorbonne adjudged that wild geese
were not birds and could be eaten during
Lent. As for the anthropologists, there are
legends of tailed men to be investigated in
Papua and half a dozen other countries.
* * * *
“Mullarula”: It was on one of those hills
over there,” said the historian of our troop,
pointing to the forbidden jumble of moun-
tains beyond the Dead Sea, "that Moses
stood and looked at the Promised Land that
he was never to enter.” A Digger who re-
fused to see any beauty in our historical
surroundings looked up from the shirt which
he was intently exploring. “Why didn’t he
enter it?” he asked. “He’d done something
wrong,” said the Biblical student, “and his
punishment was that he was not to enter.”
Bluey surveyed the depressing scenery again.
“I could have stood that sentence all right,”
he pronounced positively.
* * * *
“Matlow”: Strgnge fuels have been used
to bring to port steamers with empty
bunkers. There is a story of how, during a
desperate race between two old-time Missis-
sippi steamboats, one vessel’s cargo of cured
hams was used to feed the furnaces. The
French cargo steamer Belgrano went one
better recently, when terrific gales saw her
a hundred miles from Marseilles with all her
coal exhausted. The resourceful skipper
broached the cargo of peanuts he was bring-
ing from the Levant. And his craft came
home on the bit.
* M * *
“Wanchai”: Intensive and long-continued
study is necessary to be able to read and
write Chinese. A person who is tone-
deaf or has a poor ear for change of pitch
in the voice can never hope to speak it pro-
perly. Some years ago in Hongkong an
Anglican bishop told me that he had made
elaborate preparations for an address to a
Cantonese congregation on “The Love of
God.” The address left the natives unmoved;
indeed, their faces registered such blank
bewilderment that he sought an explanation
from a Cantonese merchant who was pre-
sent. The latter explained that owing to
the bishop’s failure to correctly reproduce
a subtle intonation every reference to the
“love of God” was interpreted as a threat
to commit suicide.
* * * *
“Gad”: If Marshal Foch died compara-
tively poor (B. 3/4/’29), it was due to his
self-abnegation. It is more than probable
that the French Government offered him a
pecuniary grant, and it would have been
only characteristic of him to decline it. The
English habit of remunerating soldiers for
performing their obvious duty only applies
to those at the very top. The war gratuity
for all regulars of the British Army was on
a distinctly lower scale than for those who
lent themselves temporarily to the King’s
service. My own gratuity, as a regular,
amounted to the munificent sum of £lo—
three years’ service in commissioned
rank. But, of course, I keep in mind that
the war could have been won without me.
* * * *
“McA.”: I suspect Governor Phillip had
more in his mind than fear of the French
when Neutral Bay was decided upon as an
anchorage for foreign ships (B. 27/3/’29).
It was another instance of the horse-sense
characteristic of the man—the same that
prompted him to disobey the orders of his
seniors and transfer the settlement from
Botany Bay to Sydney Cove. The presence
of any foreign ship upset the convicts. They
were tempted to make a bid for liberty by
stowing away; they begged provisions from
the ship’s stores, and were thus enabled to
escape to the bush; they stole weapons from
the blacks, and exchanged them with the sail-
ors for rum and tobacco, all of which actions
disturbed the peace of the infant colony.
Therefore Phillip, in 1789, ukased that all
vessels other than English must anchor in
Neutral Bay, where wood and water —all the
colony had to offer —were obtainable in
plenty, and the convicts could be kept from
contact with them. In any case, it wasn’t
likely that the ships of any unfriendly Power
bent on conquest would respect the edict of
a Governor with so few defensive forces at
his command.
HANG THE EXPENSE.
NEWCASH: “I’m shocked to see a daughter of mine smoking cigarettes.”
HIS DAUGHTER: “But, father, everybody does it!”
NEWCASH: “I don’t care. Remember our position. Smoke cigars.”
“Harold Hardupp”: Nobody can make a
Claude Duval out of Ned Kelly, but George
(“Ghostie”) Downs, the Tasmanian prison-
breaker, seems to have a strong dash of
Jack Sheppard in him. Confined in the con-
demned cell at Hobart Gaol for extra secu-
rity, “Ghostie” sawed his way through steel
bars and scaled a 30ft. wall, though he didn’t
succeed in getting out of the prison, wherein
he is serving a 14 years’ sentence for the
manslaughter of his wife in 1925. His first
serious clash with the law was when, appa-
rently in sheer cussedne.ss, he killed the tame,
trained stag of the Tamar Hunt Club. He
got a “sixer” for that, but brought the
manacles on his wrists down on the head of
the constable who was taking him to the
train, and was not recaptured for months.
In 1926 he broke gaol with two or three
other long-sentence men, but they weren’t
long at large.
* * * *
“Narara”: There is an interesting bit of
artistry on the outer gates of the Darling-
hurst (Sydney) Courthouse, which is really
part of the old gaol building. The carving
was executed before the gates were placed
in position, and is supposed to represent the
scales of Justice. The convict stonemason
who was entrusted with the job evidently
had a sense of humor, for, though his handi-
work might pass for the scales of Justice,
it is a lot more like a double gallows with
a flogging-triangle suspended from each rope.
$ * * *
“Mango”: The “he-mannequin” has
arrived. At the inaugural luncheon of the
British Artificial Silk Goods Exhibition a
lady speaker expressed a hope that she
would yet see men going to business in silken
shorts and shirts. Some of the enterprising
firms who are interested in artificial silk
took the hint immediately, and clad male
mannequins—handsome ones—in fetching
futuristic creations. One ensemble was a
black silk sports shirt, open at the neck,
and edged in white, abbreviated black silk
drawers and golf-socks of loud pattern. The
other was of grey silk, looking very like
velvet with its many folds and wrinkles, and
equally assertive golf-socks.
* * * *
“Chicot”: The tall, well-groomed English-
man was holding forth in the bar of a
North Queensland hotel on his exploits with
the gun in the Old Country. “I remember
one grand time I had,” he told them. “I
was shooting at Finnington Hall, the
Duke of X —’s place, you know. And”
“Cripes!” cut in Dave interestedly, “did you
hit the flaming thing?”
* * * *
“Ula”: Kelly was a brutal murderer (B.
20/3/’29), but a faint glamor of some Robin
Hood-like acts, real or alleged, still clings
to him in the minds of some people. One
such, annoyed at what he considered
the desecration of Ned’s grave—the old
Melbourne gaol graveyard is to become the
site of a seat of learning—went to a Mel-
bourne newspaper office to protest. The
editor showed so little concern that the caller
boiled over with “Why, Ned Kelly was the
best bushranger Victoria has ever seen!”
* * * *
“Iford”: A newcomer from the U.K. is
always liable to encounter a perfectly good
English word which, nevertheless, he never
heard before. “Snob” was the first mono-
syllable that had me beat. I asked the way
to the Warden’s court in a W.A. goldfields
town, and was told it was “just the other
side of the snob’s. Don’t know what a snob
is? Where’ve you come from? Well, the
cobbler’s, then.” I never heard of but one
sort of snob in England, but. though most
modern dictionaries shy at the secondary
meaning, I find in Webster: “Snob, a jour-
neyman shoemaker, provincial English.” The
word seems to have had a third and
more invidious meaning a century ago , u
Quincey is quoted to the effect that
who work for lower wages during a str Kt
are called snobs, the men w T ho stand out
being nobs.” Whether the modern “scab" is
a distortion of this is a matter for the
philologist.
* * * *
“Tee Essbie” : Kissing Point, on the Par-
ramatta, has a more picturesque name-origin
assigned to it than Neutral Bay. Governor
Hunter was much addicted to water picnics,
and used to journey thither from Sydney by
rowboat. On one occasion the boats grounded
on a submerged sandbank, and the tide being
on the ebb, remained fast. The gentlemen
decided that there was nothing for it but
to remove their shoes and stockings and
carry the ladies ashore. The Governor him-
self did his share, and, as he placed his
fair burden on the dry land, gallantly saluted
her. Kissing Point the spot has remained to
this day.
* * * *
“P.M.”: A Chow vegetable hawker in
northern Victoria lately left his waggon out-
side the fence of a fair-sized sheep-property
and waddled across the paddock to the hous;
with his basket on his shoulder. Some kids
were passing on the way home from school,
and one spirited lad, who had evidently
heard Dad tell an old Bulletin Abo.
yarn, unharnessed the horse and set
off up the road at full gallop. It
was an utterly bewildered john who returned
a bit later on to find his horse harnessed into
the shafts of the cart, but on the inside
of the fence and the cart still outside, and
the nearest gate a mile up the road.
* * * *
“Sliep”: These yarns about military deco-
rations coming to units in handfuls to he
dished out by the C.O.’s concerned need tak-
ing with a lot of salt. The Military Medal
was awarded only after a recommen-
dation had been chewed over at head-
quarters. It took months, often over a year,
for the medal to be engraved in London with
the name, rank and unit of the recipient. Iu
one case that I know of the decoration
reached its owner nine months after he re-
turned home, and was the first intimation to
him that he’d been recommended by the C.O.
of a Tommy regiment. Doubtless the M.M.
wasn’t highly esteemed. With the exception
of the V.C. no medals were. But I’ve seen
a D.C.M. and sundry D.S.O.’s and M.C.’s
earned far more easily than some of the
M.M.’s awarded.
* * * *
“Eureka”: A boy recently found a purs* 1
containing over £l7 in cash. The lad’s
mother advertised in “Lost and Found” for
the owner, who turned up in the form of a
well-dressed lady. When told that the adver-
tisement had cost two 'shillings, she com-
plained that it was unnecessarily large, and
that a shilling ad. would have been quite
sufficient. _ The finder of the purse was re-
warded with three pennies.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: I doubt if any Australian town
whatever can compete in frequency of
pubs with the average English town
of similar size. At Thirsk. in Yorkshire,
consisting mainly of the houses round a
market-place, I lately counted eight licensed
houses looking at each other. And in pic-
turesque old York itself, out of five adjoining
shops, three were sellers of strong drink.
* * * *
“Strict Yeg.” : Any Melbourne pedestrian
who casts his eye downwards will see a curi-
ous phenomenon. Although the regulation re
keeping to the left is as much honored in
the breach as in the observance, nobody
appears to walk in the middle of the pave-
ment. The result is that the white equatorial
line is becoming steadily higher, or seem.-
to be. This is not due to successive layers
of paint, but to the feet of hurrying citizens
wearing down the surface on each side of it
WHEN YOU’VE BEEN HERE AS LONG
AS ME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I got upon his nerves, I guess—
And I know now that they were raw—
But he’d annoy me, I confess,
When he was laying down the law.
I used to say to him: “A man
Would think you owned Gallipoli.”
And every sentence he began:
“When you’ve been here as long as me.”
How foolish does it all seem now,
How far removed from commonsense;
But then each empty, childish row
Seemed fraught with direst consequence.
We used to argue every day.
I knew the way to hurt, and he
Knew that he only had to say:
“When you’ve been here as long as me.”
In fancy I can see him now,
And hear him say with spiteful mirth:
“I never waited, anyhow,
Until they pushed me out of Perth.
Oh ! you’re a clever sort of chap;
But take my tip, son, it will be
Quite time enough for you to yap
When you’ve been here as long as me.”
The scars that marked the headlands old
The gentle hand of time has healed.
To him the story has been told,
To him the purpose is revealed.
And, as I puzzle o’er the plan,
From where he sleeps beside the sea
A whisper comes: “You’ll know, old man,
When you’ve been here as long as me.”
W.A.
OSCAR WALTERS.


RE
rai
•y-msm
■
Navy
B
.C "■■
Cut
SI
■
>' .. 5$
Site*,
M
■■■:■-
*
/<?
I 1
MEDiUM STRENGTH
Ml
V l
©
*
W.D.&H.O.WILLS,
! {Auslra!ia)m Sydney.
r \ ’
J
J I
<
t
oS
O'
S 7
a.
J
v
©
r
5.
e
[V
v
Vfte
Scan


a
excellent quality of this
ENTREE DISH
ensures lifetime service
63/-
Extra-heavily silver-plated on a hard, white metal base, and made in
Sheffield, England—the home of the highest-grade silver plate—there
is little doubt of the QUALITY of this well-designed entree dish.
Fairfax & Roberts are specialists in Silver Plate, and offer wonderful
value in articles fashioned therefrom.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.
“The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,”
PLAIN FIGURES.
23-25 HUNTER STREET,
CASH ONLY.
- /
R
-\' y ! , " r •»«• v#«dl rt&.'WD'iW**!
CONSISTENTLY
GOOD!
“MANGROVITE” LEATHER
or RAW-HIDE BELTING
The unvarying high quality of Mangrovite Belting is due to rigorous selection of the best hides
and expert supervision of every process of manufacture. Every length of belting that leaves
our factory is guaranteed.
Let our engineers see that you get the correct belt for your special job. Their advice is valuable
and costs you nothing.
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD.,
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director,
49 YORK STREET (WYNYARD SQUARE), SYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
The heroism of the Westralian pilots
Woods, Chater and Heath has been a glow-
ing feature of the search for the Southern
Cross fliers, and a dramatic episode was the
sudden departure from Sydney, two days
after the gallant Holden set out in the Can-
berra, of Keith Anderson. Anderson was
to have accompanied Kingsford Smith in the
flight from America to Australia. He was
Q. L. DELOITTE, the Grand Old Man
of Sydney aquatics, who helped to win
the Intercolonial Championship Fours
57 years ago, died at the week-end, aged
85. For 33 years he was secretary of the
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
so annoyed about being left out of the ven-
ture that legal proceedings were instituted
on his behalf. There was bitterness, but
Anderson forogt it when the need for aid
came.
One of the briefest voyages of adventure
in history was that of S. M. Keyes, a Mel-
bourne man, who resigned his job of manager
of a department in the Chartres Pty. to
work his passage to Europe on the Selje.
Within 48 hours he was back in Melbourne
as a distressed mariner. A couple of days
later, liis former employers having read the
newspaper reports of his misfortune, he was
back in his old office.
Like Dickens’s cab-horse which had to be
kept between the shafts to prevent it from
falling down, many a hard-working man finds
that getting out of harness is fatal. Ernest
Macartney de Burgh, mighty maker of bridges
and dams in N.S.W., enjoyed only two years
of retirement before the end came. He
arrived from Ireland at the age of 22, and
was snapped up immediately by the Public
N\ orks Department, becoming in a couple
of years engineer in charge of bridge-con-
struction. There is scarcely an important
river in N.S.W. that he has not helped to
span. In 1903 he was transferred to the
Water and Sewerage branch, and the Catar-
act dam was constructed under his super-
vision.
Captain Cyril Benson, the new principal
of the Jervis Bay Naval College, had a
ticklish job during the war, which brought
him a D. 5.0., and carried it on a long time
afterwards. In command of a mine-sweeping
flotilla, he had to keep fairways needed by
Britain clear of the mines sown by the Ger-
mans ; the war over, he set to work on the
British minefields in the North Sea. His
flotilla fished up 80,000 British mines before
he reckoned it was time to go home.
Of the Queensland Rhodes Scholars, one
is a London County Council engineer;
another is an instructor in the Queensland
Forestry Department; four are teachers, one
at Oxford and two in Queensland grammar
schools ; a seventh is in business in Brisbane;
an eighth is interested in a London publishing
venture; a ninth is an officer in the British
Air Force; a tenth is a Left Wing candi-
date for the Paddington State electorate.
Five are still at their studies.
Revisiting Sydney is Lieut.-Colonel H*. E.
Woodman, who in August, 1914, marched
into Randwick in the first batch of recruits
to form the 4th Battalion. He was with the
4th until the formation of the Ist machine-
gun company, but was recalled to the bat-
talion after the heavy losses at Pozieres. He
returned to Australia with the D.S.O. His
peace-time job is that of District Officer of
the Sepik District, Mandated Territory,
where lie and his men have done wonderfully
successful work in one of the few really
wild-man countries left in the world.
The Douglas Mawson expedition to the
Antarctic will reunite old pals of former
adventures. Professor David is on the com-
mittee which has charge of the arrange-
ments in Australia; and J. Iv. Davis, Com-
monwealth Director of Navigation, has been
granted leave to command the old Discovery.
Davis went to sea as an apprentice as
recently as 1900; he advanced so rapidly
that he was chief officer of the Nimrod with
the Shackleton expedition, of which Maw-
son was a member, in 3907, and he skip-
pered the Aurora in the Mawson expedition,
1911-14. In 1916 he led the party which
rescued the survivors of Shackleton’s last
adventure from Cape Evans, returning to
Australia in time to command three troop-
ships and take a hand in the repatriation
of the A.I.F. He is a Londoner by birth,
and still only 45.
General Reggie Talbot, who was Governor
of Victoria from 1904 to 1908, left £73,000.
lie didn’t accumulate anything for probate
out of the £5OOO a year he drew in Mel-
bourne.
Judge Beeby, who was badly knocked
about by a motor-car in Melbourne last year,
had to retire to hospital again the other day
to undergo a minor operation. Being in
bed doesn’t keep him inactive; a few months
ago he held an Arbitration Court in his sick-
room, and he is liable to write a story or
a playlet when he gets tired of reading. The
versatile man, who is just on 60, started
work as a N.S.W. school-teacher, qualified
as a lawyer, had two long periods in poli-
tics, and between times got another branch
of experience as editor of a country news-'
paper.
The tragic death of A. E. Hall and the
seizing of the office furniture under a bill-
of-sale bring down with the biggest crash
known to Broken Hill commercial men the
concern of T. Hall and Son. Tommy Hall,
who established it, was well acquainted with
early-day tragedies; he was the Barrier’s
Coroner for many years. Sliarebroking, gen-
eral agency business, Starr-Bowkett work,
medical-fund contributions and side-lines
made him family lawyer, friend, adviser and
trustee to many working people. When he
passed on a couple of years ago his son
Allan took over the prosperous business.
How much is involved is not yet known, but
Broken Hill did pot think of financial losses
when it heard that the popular head of the
house had taken his own life. A widow and
three youngsters are left to wonder what
happened to transform a pleasant world into
one of misery.
Lord Montagu, of Beaulieu, who has died
at the age of 64, had none of the distinction
of appearance of his sister, Lady Forster,
wife of Australia’s very able Governor-Gen-
eral. He was a stout, bald, cherubic man
who always looked years younger than he was.
His name will live as a pioneer of the motor-
car; he had one when English law required
every car-user to have a man walking ahead
of him carrying a red flag.
The mortal remains of George Ivnibbs,
like those of George Swinburne, M.L.C.,
and Archgaiters Lees, were cremated at
Fawkner (Vie.) crematorium. Rev. Roscoe
Wilson, avlio conducted what is technically
called the “committal” service, did it very
eloquently. A nephew who heard the tribute
with some pride was Roy Curthoys, the
youthful new editor of the Abgus.
Dr. Halcro Wardlaw, the new president
of the Linnean Society (Sydney), is the most
unassuming of scientists. He got a kick-off
for his B.Sc., the final doctorate and a Liu-
SSAM HORDERN, president of the R.A.S.,
who has just carried another Sydney
Easter Show through to a successful end.
nean Macleav Fellowship by taking a job as
laboratory boy at the Sydney University
Med. School; wages, 10s. a week. Il'e was
born in Townsville (N.Q.), where the
climate is so destructive of energy.
J. D. Pearson, dead in Melbourne, made
a heap of money as caterer and publican.
One of his daughters married Bob Williams,
M.L.C., who was an Honorary Minister
under Hogan; another son-in-law is fellow-
Laborite Joe Hannan, formerly of the Ileps.,
the Senate and the Vic. Assembly. While
Pearson lay dying an attempt was made at
the Labor conference to have employers ex-
cluded from “the movement.” Men like
Pearson, Williams, Jones and Disney give
much more to “the movement” than they
get out of it.
Captain Dick Reynolds, of the trader
Aramia, came all the way from Torres
Strait to see the Sydney Show. Well known
from Thursday Island to the Fly River,
he recruits practically all the Papuans
employed by the Torres Strait pearlers,
being under contract to deliver so many
hundreds of “boys” per year. After the
rush of the recruiting season, he runs the
Aramia with stores and trade from Thurs-
day Island to Daru. His father was a
famous skipper of the flying clipper days.
Yic. Rhodes Scholar J. A. Seitz, who has
had experience as an inspector of secondary
schools, is to bo given a trial as chief in-
spector of such schools now that Julia
Flynn has been edged out of the job after
six months’ probation. Miss Flynn is back
in her old position, that of assistant-chief,
and women’s organisations are taking up
her case with energy. Hansen, Director of
Education, insists that the post is not one
for a woman, but he slipped badly when lie
called for applications from men only, lie
had to retreat; the Blackburn (Women’s
Qualifications) Act made it obligatory.
The Rev. R. J. Campbell, who has re-
turned from the U.S.A. convinced that war
between Britain and America is “far from
unthinkable,” is one of the most unexpected
clerics in the Empire. Scion of a long line
of Ulster Nonconformists, for 12 years, until
1915, he had been the star preacher of the
City Temple. In fact he was England’s
greatest preacher. Then he suddenly left
the Congregational Church and was ordained
a C. of E. minister. He officiates now at
the most fashionable church in fashionable
Brighton, and last year, at the age of 61,
he re-married and went to Egypt for his
honeymoon. Some of his books, and notably
his admirable “Life of Christ,” are best-
sellers in their class. But it is as a preacher
that he will be remembered; and as the pos-
sessor of a beautiful acquiline-featured face,
a glorious voice, and a most winning manner.
When George Langridge, Chief Sec. of Vic.,
died in 1891, Frank Stuart, Honorary Min-
ister in the Assembly, resigned in a huff
because Munro gave the vacant salaried port-
folio to George Turner. He tried to per-
suade Alec Peacock to follow suit, but Pea-
cock wouldn’t. Looking back 3S years, Pea-
cock, who was Vic. Parliament’s guest at
dinner last night (April 7), must have shaken
hands with himself at having turned a deaf
ear to Stuart. After serving in 13 Govern-
ments, besides Munro’s, he gained the
Speakership. Stuart, now under the sod,
never got another smell of office. Time
proved that Munro was right in giving
George Turner (The Bulletin’s “little man
in the brown suit and the cheap spectacles")
the preference.
Nowadays miracles are performed in
suburban homes instead of the market-place.
The other night, using about sufficient
power to work an electric stove, C. I.
Patterson, a young experimenter of Malvern
(Vic.), got in touch with a fellow-amateur
in ’Frisco on a ten-metre wave. Never
before had two-ways communication on such
a low wave-length been achieved.
Victoria’s oldest railwayman, though he
has long since retired from the calling, is
John Wakefield, who has just celebrated his
93rd birthday at Caulfield. Wakefield entered
the service of the old Hobson’s Bay Railway
Co. in 1865, soon ufter his arrival from Kng-
land, being a booking-clerk at Port Mel-
bourne, then called Sandridge. On the open-
ing of the St. Kilda line in 1857 he was
transferred to the St. Kilda station and
issued the first ticket ther6. When the co.
was taken over by the Government in 1881
he wound up its affairs, having risen to the
position of secretary. His wife was born in
a dwelling on the site now occupied by the
Union Bank in Collins-street, Melbourne.
According to the statisticians of the R.S.L.,
the 13th Battalion A.I.F. has suffered most
casualties this year. This was the wonderful
unit which had young Marks for C.O. as the
proceedings were dragging to a finish in
France. Marks was in the war from Land-
ing to Armistice, and then lost his life
trying to rescue a woman from the surf
at Palm Beach. Harry Murray, V.C., who
turned down nearly as many decorations as
he took, and other remarkable characters
also belonged to the 13th. The adjutant,
who wrote a history of the battalion, is still
going strong, and so is the oldest subaltern
—before the war one of the best secretaries
the Union Club ever had, and now secretary
of Sydney’s Imperial Service Club. At the
other end of Fortune’s scale is an unfor-
tunate who, after fine service in the 13th,
had to be saved by the League from a
pauper’s grave.
A breath of the true Bush blew up The
Bulletin stairs the other day, and Jim
Grahame, cobber of Lawson and writer of
many a swinging verse himself, shook hands
all round. For years he has dwelt at Lee-
ton, in the N.S.W. irrigation belt. There
he and Lawson were mates, carrying on a
friendship that began at Bourke many years
before. Jim Grahame has built himself a
model sort of home in the canal country,
with wattle 10ft. or so high fencing in one
side, willows looking after the other side
and the back, and gums marshalled along the
straight strip of water in front. He works
for the Water Conservation and Irrigation
Commission, and understands “why coves
STEMPINSKI conducting 1812 Overture,
Capitol Theatre, Melbourne.
like ‘Gerardy’ don’t write as often as they
ought to. You think of a line, and then
you think of a furrow or a bit of fencing
or a mortgage.” He visits Sydney only
about once in 10 years, and this trip is
astonished at the number of horses that still
earn feed on the streets.
“Toowong”: Major Phillips, the last
A.I.F. man to be demobbed (B. 3/4/’29),
was one of the first to enlist in the force,
lie went away with the 1914 lot and had
his baptism of fire in Gallipoli. At Lone
Pine he was wounded so badly that he was
laid up for 18 months. He is a son of Dr.
Gordon Phillips, of Warwick (Q.).
THE ORACLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Around the fire we’d argue long and hard
Upon the topic whereunto ’s assigned
By Alexander Pope, discerning bard,
First place among the studies of mankind.
And after slabs of praise and gusts of blame
At this and that acquaintance had been
hurled,
Old Jim would knock his pipe out and
proclaim:
“Ah, well, it takes all sorts to make a
world.”
One was a wowser; one was every inch
A man ; another, somebody’d allege,
A fellow’s shirt from off a hedge would pinch
And then return to try and shake the
hedge;
A fourth was white, all white; a fifth a nark;
A sixth had traits would 'give a saint
the spike.
And Jim would close debate with the remark:
“Ah, well! You know, chaps can’t be all
alike.”
This one his waggon to a star had hitched;
That one had done; his dash by folly sheer;
By beer and merit Binks had been enriched,
And Banks had failed through indolence
and beer.
So, still by divers paths good battlers go
(And bad) to high estate—and both to low—
Froni causes hard to tabulate as when
Old Jim would sum things up; “Ah, well!
You know.
There’s such a lot of diff’rent kinds of
men ”
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


THE WRONG BAIT.
“The leaders of the timber strike, now in its tenth week, are relying strongly on public sympathy. But kindred unions, which have contributed generously, point
out that militant methods are destroying public sympathy.”
LUNATIC: “Do you expect to get results with that bait, Comrade?”
STRIKER: “Yes.”
LUNATIC: “Come inside.”
Poverty
Point
“Jimmy’s”: London music-hall frequenters
have been considerably exercised about a
turn which has been gracing the Moss circuit
—an exhibition of extraordinary and dis-
gusting freaks. The star turn is a person
described as “half-man and half-woman,”
who is referred to as “It.” The freaks go
through what are styled performances,; that
of “It” consists of an inane lecture, when
limbs are displayed, with the addendum,
“That is all the law allows me to show.”
The American entrepreneur, one La lieine,
is pained at the press antagonism. “I
reckon my show is refined,” he told an inter-
viewer ; “and I reckon I know British audi-
ences are refined, too. That’s why I left
the elephant-skinned woman at home.”
“Nakhoda”: Touching native orchestras
and European music. John Doyle, an Aus-
tralian who was many years ago in the cable
service, did more than anybody else to spread
Western themes amongst the gamelangs and
gandrong-players of “the East.” He was
equipped with a magnificent bass voice and
a fine whistle, and with their aid he supplied
a modern repertoire to bands in outports
ranging from Broome to Borneo. Ten years
after he left Banyuwangi, Java, the brown
orchestrions who played at the Dutch Club
could only vary their programmes by play-
ing “Annie Laurie” before “Knocked ’em in
the Old Ivent-road” one week and the other
way about the next. It was a sore point
with the Hollanders that the only way the
band could conclude an evening was with
“God Save the King.”
“A”: Adelaide Repertory Theatre, the
oldest of its kind in Australia, has a big loss
in the retirement of Wilfred Neill, for years
a leading amateur actor, producer and busi-
ness man. Muriel Craigie, who has for still
more years been the secretary, keeps her
post, and Thomas Nave is now business
manager. The producers are Nave, Ray
Walsh, Esmond George, Johnston and Mrs.
Neill. Professor Archibald Strong is chair-
man, but during his absence in Canada the
chair is taken by Talbot Smith, who occu-
pied it before him.
“Cauboy”: Nancy Weir, the 13-year-old
pianist whom both Cherkassky, a boy-wonder
himself, and the sedate and elderly Friedman,
enthused about, is to go abroad for study,
and Melbourne’s Lord Mayor is sponsoring
the campaign which is to provide her with
the passage money. Nancy has continued to
develop since her sensational debut six
months ago, and is shortly to appear with
the Symphony Orchestra. If Nancy’s pre-
cocity blossoms into genius she will be a
bad argument for the environmental school
of philosophers. Until she came to a con-
vent in Victoria the only music she heard
was the clink of glasses and the pop of corks
in her father’s hotel at Lockhart (N.S.W.).
Melbourne Repertory Theatre: “Cauboy”
(B. 27/3/’29) errs in stating that we have
lost director Frank Glewlow. He will re-
turn from his holiday abroad in June, and
will then again produce for us. Also, we
are not playing in a suburban hall, but in
Kelvin Hall, Collins-place.
“Oran”: Like “Dom” (B. 3/4/’29), I
have my doubts nowadays about Holly wooden
productions. Years ago I went to see “The
Mutiny of the Bounty,” at Auckland (M.L.),
and was struck by the extraordinary likeness
the natives of Tahiti bore to the Maoris.
When a boatload of survivors approached the
shore of Tahiti the audience commented
loudly on the remarkable similarity of its
outline to that of Mokoia Island, the Rotorua
resort of Hinemoa and Tutanekai fame. But
when Bligh began his famous journey in the
open boat, and after straining his eyes over
trackless ocean and suffering incredible hard-
ship, hailed with joy the outline of land, and
Mt. Ngongotaha, the well-known Rotorua
peak, loomed up on the horizon, the tense
sympathy of the crowd turned to yells of
ribald mirth. Bligh’s record journey had
been made on the waters of Lake Rotorua.
<C C.B.”: Last year the Theatre Guild, a
Melbourne organisation run by the active
Mostyn Wright, gave five performances at
which some 15 works by E. A. Vidler,
“Juliet,” Hilda Bridges, Alan Mulgan and
other local dramatists had airings. Most
of the writers were able to see how
the infants of their minds walked or waddled
in stage clothes —an absolutely essential ex-
perience for the playwright. Judging from
w T hat I saw of them, these plays showed
that the writer for the stage is passing
through exactly the same evolution as the
Australian writer of fiction has just sur-
mounted. For many years the columns of
The Bulletin made the short story of 1000
or 2000 words the standard, and, in bringing
this medium to a high state of perfection,
the fictioneers were getting experience and
discipline which will stand them in good
stead now that the longer effort of the
novel is demanded. ■ The Theatre Guild
playwrights are now engaged in mastering
the one-acter, and last year produced at
least two. gems in this medium. The next
stage will no doubt be the all-night three-
acter. Though its audiences are small the
Guild has the satisfaction of knowing that
it did more for the Australian dramatist
last year than all the professional entrepre-
neurs put together.
“Coot’’: Lately the Firm has had one
or more shows in every capital city in the
Commonwealth, in three cities in Maoriland
and in London. In Sydney it had “The
Desert Song,” “Young Woodley,” “The
Wrecker” and Tivoli vaudeville.. In Mel-
bourne, “The Vagabond King,” “This Year
of Grace,” “Applesauce,” “The Flying Squad”
and vaudeville. Nellie Stewart was in Adel-
aide as Sweet Nell; Brisbanites were flock-
ing to see Anna Pavlova; Perth was inspect-
ing “The Patsy”; and Hobart “The Desert
Song.” In Maoriland “The Patsy,” the Van-
boucicaults and the Midnight Frolics were
all under the same banner.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : Good, bad and indif-
ferent are the criticisms of “The White
Camellia,” which has come to Daly’s after
a prolonged run in the provinces. Oscar
Asche is the producer, and the financial re-
sponsibility belongs to Harry Welchman,
who plays the principal male role, and has
Dorothy Brunton as his leading lady. Sha
gets many bouquets for her singing and a
few lemons for her acting ; but, generally, she
comes through very well, one quidnunc de-
scribing her as the best singer on the light-
opera stage, although placing Evelyn Laye
as the best all-round artiste. The reception
of the piece was enthusiastic, and did nor
wholly accord with some of the waspish com-
ments of the critics, who are probably frost-
bitten doing their rounds in this Arctic
weather.
“Cauboy”: Although the Vic. Quota Act,
owing to its restriction to one State, has not
assisted the Australian silent film industry,
it has one success to its credit. It has
moved the Fox people to send across a
movietone equipment for shooting gazettes
and scenic pictures for the talking pro-
grammes. Movietone film can be used on
vita phone apparatus, so there will be no
need for the Vic. authorities to grant exemp-
tions for longer than it takes to get the
Fox gadget working.
THE PRETENDER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wherever Thespians are met,
I see him off and on;
O’er modern plays he moans regret
And talks of actors gone,
Like George and Julius and Bland,
Alf, Charlie, Jim and Joe —
Real stars that shone upon this land
Back in the years ago.
It seems ’twas good to be alive
To see Art such as grew
When he and George did Henry Five,
Or Alf the public drew
(With him, of course) to see “King Lear,”
Or wdien they flocked with vim
To gaze on Rignold, Dampi-er,
Brough, Williamson and him!
Sleek, prosperous, he vaunts his fame
By linking it with stars.
Well, well! I can’t recall his name,
But still in many bars
His drinks taste good. ’Tis false, I’m sure,
Whoever told me so—
“He was a bloomin’ amachure
Who supered long ago I”
N.S.W.
HAMFAT.


D
rive on
PI
um
the appoteni
and enjoy th
, us uon '
e aPP9 lel " C
,r Sp«'‘
“"ffiefas
>°r sion Sectiy-
tk ,s . ‘delivers"
b r”°J«iP" sh 10
,hru mal’» airis
Si ;;;%AS":
to M'ZZJct corn;
over- na turcilly
f° ll0 y motor sP irit
ppotenic 1 ,j deliver
Ulhe ><r°?J or the
™ % trill
HIGH \
* \
COMPRESSIONS
POWER-
**j From the Latin: ad ( ap), meaning
added to; and potens, meaning power,ful.
appotenic possessing increased power;
said of a gas that, being stable to heat and
high compression, will therejore neither
audibly nor silently “knock" in a high
compression engine.
HIGH compression means greater propulsive
power provided only that ignition and com-
bustion of the charge take place correctly.
The efficiency of some motor spirits is reduced
through their inability to resist the disruptive
influences of the terrific heat developed by high
compression.
These influences cause motor spirits unstable to
heat to spontaneously ignite in uncontrolled
combustion; (See the smaller illustration.)
Violent expansion follows, springing the cyl-
inder walls, and causing that high-pitched
“ping” known to motorists as fuel knock,
with consequent loss of power.
Both you and your car will get the full bene-
fit of high compression if you drive on Plume
the appotenic Motor Spirit. The appotenic
quality powerfully resists the action of heat,
and works in perfect power-partnership
with high compression engines. (See cor-
rect combustion illustration.)
High compression and appotenic Plume
mean more power, greater flexibility , less
gear-changing , faster acceleration, andless-
ened depreciation because of a gratifying
absence of knocking.
Here’s the surge ol power that you
should have for modern..motoring
conditions. A tank full will prove,
every claim.
ŵw
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY LTD.


w
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. 801 D.
Total Assets exceed £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
.„ „ „ . , . to Policy-holders. (3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
(1) Because of Annu . . , Drivate hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
/o- 4tw, OMTI t of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by private nospiiais, vaiyuij.
the 1 Association and. no deduction made from policy or bonuses. deduction made from poucy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportiona e y.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost evoiy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity. GEO BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Desert Song’’
Criterion “Young Woodley”
Royal Pavlova
Paiace “No. 17”
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Vagabond King”
Royal “This Year of Grace”
King’s “The Ghost Upstairs”
New Comedy “Kempy”
Titoli Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
♦
Sean O’Casey’s “Juno and the Paycock”
was done three times last week by the Mel-
bourne Repertorians at the Kelvin H'all, and
will be repeated, D.V., this evening. Those
interested in seeing sound and absorbing
drama performed in very nearly first-class
style are recommended to attend; also all
available Australian playwrights.
This Showman admires O’Casey’s courage
and patriotism almost as much as his artistic
qualities. For it must have required rare
courage and unusual patriotism to pen such
u ruthless exposure of the soul or souls of his
native land at a time when Ireland was
anxious to put only her best face forward.
It is a variety of courage and a kind of
patriotism seldom found amongst Australian
dramatists. Australian dramatists, like their
fellow-practitioners, the novelists, arc apt to
regard their art as an adjunct to the tourist
bureau. In that belief they are immensely
heartened by the conduct of the critics. The
critics, whenever an Australian play or book
endeavors to be veracious and sincere, accuse
the author of an unpatriotic attempt to divert
American globetrotters to Madagascar or
spoil the loan market in London.
This O’Casey is not a mere satirist. He
is a tragic poet who puts sustained comedy
to its most legitimate employment. He
arouses laughter expressly in order to clear
the head and make the eye see clearer. This
study of a heterogeneous crowd packed into
a Dublin tenement is more enlightening than a
million articles for and against nationalism.
The usual method in a play of this sort is
to use a great historical period as a con-
venient background for a love story. O’Casey
uses the trumpery affairs of a group of unim-
important humans to illuminate history.
The Repertory players, under the man-
agement of Betty Rae, paid O’Casey the
compliment of a fine performance. With
«
BERTHA RICCARDO, in “No. 17,” the Nat Madi-
son offering at Sydney Palace on Saturday
night.
the exception of Claude Thomas, whose
efforts scarcely justify his frequent appear-
ances on the local boards, the principals
were more than merely satisfactory. H. N.
Gregory and Howard Smith, as “Captain”
Jack Boyle and “Joxer” Daly respectively,
provided two rich low-character impersona-
tions which have not been bettered on the
legitimate stage for years. This is not a
hasty judgment, but an opinion which has
been slept on. Ruby May was an adequate
Juno, in a part heavily charged with dialect.
* * *
With the modesty of the true artist, Leon
Gordon announces only a short season for his
own play, “The Ghost Upstairs,” at Mel-
bourne King’s, and having surveyed the piece,
this paper is lost in admiration of his self-
denial. The play is far more endurable than
any mystery drama Edgar Wallace ever
wrote. It.has two decidedly funny acts and
a third which, despite its dull spots, ends on
two notes of exalted melodrama. If it were
rewritten in places, “The Ghost Upstairs”
should prove the outstanding dramatic event
of the year in London, where the public
taste, it is said, demands only the very best.
As he wrote the play himself, Mr. Gordon
was fully entitled to write it entirely round
himself, which he did; with the unexpected
result that he reveals himself not so much
a dramatic artist as an excellent comedian
who was able to keep a crowded house of
Gordonites on Saturday simmering with
amusement when it wasn’t shrieking with dis-
may. Mary MacGregor, as the most eligible
female in the cast, is allowed to penetrate his
comic mask and perceive the beautiful soul
that lies beneath, but the point is not unduly
stressed. Henrietta Cavendish gets convinc-
ingly drunk, and B. N. Lewin is a corpse
with a habit of walking about.
As there are two references to kangaroos
and one to Queensland, this is presumably
the Australian play Mr. Gordon promised
to write.
* * *
Erica Morini, fiddling delightfully through
a rich programme, scored her second Harbor-
side triumph at the Town Hall on Thursday
night. The dark lady from Vienna has a
captivating stage personality, but . that is
merely a minor asset: her playing is of the
kind that stirs enthusiasm, and she was given
loud proof of its effect in that line by a
crowd that packed the hall. Beginning with
the Brahms Sonata in D minor, she closed
the first half of the evening with the
Glazounoff Concerto. It was a splendid per-
formance, in which Jacob Gimpel produced
more convincing evidence of being a hrst-
class accompanist. The second half touched
a more “popular” level —Paul Juon’s wavy
lullaby “Berceuse,” Brahms and Wieniaw-
ski valses, the fiery Brahms Hungarian
Dance No. 8 and a Hungarian Dance of
Nachez. It was then that the crowd’s mount-
ing enthusiasm broke loose, and in payment
for the unmistakably sincere demonstration
it was given Kreisler’s “Viennese Caprice,
Tschaikowsky’s “Chanson Sans Paroles” and
another Kreisler, the transcription of the
“Swanee River.” Another brilliant concert,
in which the principal items were Mozart’s
Concerto in A and Tschaikowsky’s Concerto,
with the Conservatorium Orchestra in siip-
port, followed on Saturday night. When, this
page went to press, the box-
office was doing further en-
couraging business for the final
concerts.
Miss Morini was to have
fiddled her farewell last night
(Tuesday), but biz. has been
so brisk that she play
again to-morrow and on Satur-
day night before going on to
Melbourne, where she is billed
for April 27 and 30 and May
2, 4 and 7 at the Town Hall.
* ¥ *
With cool evenings about,
Adelaide is crowding its shows,
Sweet Nell, at the Royal,
draws the old from sympathy
and the young from curiosity.
Ters is a fine performance,
even without regard to Anno
Domini; with such regard,_ it
is marvellous. Sidney Stirling
is a sound King Charles —im-
proving as the play goes on:
some of the minor parts are
greatly over-acted.
At the Prince of Wales,
Richard Bellairs has started
a 3-2-1 season of melodrama.
The talking “Jazz Singer”
stays on the screen at Wonder-
graph indefinitely—a rare
thing for Adelaide; but it is
perhaps significant that the
Regent, also exploiting movie-
tone, announces “No dia-
logue!” in its latest attrac-
tion. The non-talkies seem to
do just as well: Richard Dix
as a sailor at West’s, John
Gilbert acting finely as a re-
formed crook at the York, and
Betty Balfour her own jolly
self at the Pav.
* ¥ *
Brisbane’s remodelled His Majesty’s was
given an auspicious opening on Saturday,
when Pavlova began her brief season in the
Bananaland capital. The place is guaran-
teed to hold 1500, but it stretched itself a
bit to make room for all who wanted to see
“Don Quixote.” Pav. was due to dance here
with a nightly change of bill for most of this
week, leaving in time to open at Sydney
Royal on Saturday.
At Brisbane Royal Nellie Bramley con-
tinues to do great business. The current
offering is “Peg o’ My Heart.”
* # ¥
Having effected a successful landing at
Melbourne Tivoli, Ada Reeve is now singing
“Australia, Land o’ Mine,” so the conquest
of the rest of the continent is evidently in
train.
* * *
The event of last week in the Melbourne
film department was the advent of the noisies
at both the Regent and the State. On Satur-
day the Capitol follows suit. With the Audi-
torium and the Athenaeum providing four
sessions a day, the vocal film seems to have
definitely arrived. Saturday’s event at the
Regent "will be “Dawn,” the Nurse Cavell
picture which the Commonwealth authorities
originally banned.
¥
Over the week-end Sydney Tiv. chased
off most of those who have been adorning
its boards for weeks, and put on a crowd of
new ones who manage a pretty good show
among them. Shuron de Vries
and her revue party are the.
only survivors, and they’re quite
good enough to last out an addi-
tional lap or two. Newcomers
include Scotch-comedian J. A.
Power and the youthful juggler
Jean Florian.
* * *
Fullers’ Sydney show on
Saturday night was the accus-
tomed programme of vaudeville
and sketch presented by the
George Ward co. The closing
comedy-burlesque “Out West
was a laughable perversion of
the Western American “Bad
Man” film to which Hollywood
has treated us so long and so
remorselessly. Ward and Bert
le Blanc supplied the comedy
as a pair of safety-first “sher-
iffs.” Phyllis du Barry was
again attractive in dancing
turns, and Billy Andros, “The
Two Daleys” and Dan Dunbar
were also prominent in a good
bill.
* * *
If the people who run the
Sydney Easter Show ever have
to take round the hat, their first
port of call ought to be the
theatrical box-offices. In the
last week or two pretty well
every theatre, legitimate and
otherwise, has had queues clut-
tering the pavements outside
and the bush has been strongly
represented therein. One of
the best draw cards has been
“The Jazz Singer” at the
Lyceum. It easily holds the
talkie long-distance record and
looks like lowering some others.
Another offering in the movie
line that is gathering in
the coin is “White Shadows of the South
Seas” at the Prince Edward. It is a. splen-
did movie, which present Showman, who
isn’t much of a picture enthusiast, has seen
twice and liked even better at the second
view. A pretty good story, a picturesque
setting and a haunting thread of South Sea
music. „ , „
On the legit, side, “The Desert Song s
spectacular settings and lilting music have
been crowding Her Majesty’s even at
matinees, and “Young Woodley” has been
getting the audiences that the fine little play
and its finer acting really merit. One of
its attractions that hasn’t been mentioned
in the ads. or reviews is the quality of its
spoken English, in which department the
Australian girl, Natalie Moya, is Quite on a
level with her English partners. ‘ Clowns
in Clover” has pretty completely lifted the
Empire out of the shade, and the St. James
offering, “Lido Lady,” continues to do good
business for the Fullers. .
On Saturday Harborites _ are promised
Pavlova at the Royal. She is supported in
a fine bill by Ruth French (English) and
Nina Kirsanova (Russian), both making a
first appearance in Sydney. The opening
offering is “Giselle,” which will be repeated
on Monday and Tuesday. “The Magic
Flute” will follow at a matinee on Wednes-
day, and on that night and Thursday “Snow-
flakes” will fill the bill. Before the first
two weeks are through “Don Quixote, . xhe
Fairy Doll” and “Autumn Leaves” will be
offered. .
On Saturday, also, “No. 17,” a mystery
three-acter. will introduce Nat Madison as
a leader at the Palace, and at the Grand
Opera House Kate Howarde will adventure
with “Gum Tree Gully.”
* * *
On Saturday, at Melbourne Comedy, Ruth
Nugent and Alan Bunce will turn to an old
favorite of theirs and of Australia s
“Ivempy.”
“Adelaide”: Two, and perhaps more, South
Australian artists go Europewards shortly.
Ruth Naylor has an Elder scholarship for
England; she won it for singing, but is a
skilled Conservatorium pianist as well.
Arnold Matters, baritone, had a big win at
Ballarat two years ago, and Melba hand-
somely compared him to Edouard de Reszke,
he takes a year’s leave of absence from S.A.
Treasury office for foreign study. Miriam
Hyde has won an ‘’Associated Board ’
scholarship for piano, three years in London
(tuition only), and at the same time an
Adelaide Conservatorium award in composi-
tion covering the Mus. Bac. course; and is
in grave doubt which to accept. These .Eng-
lish offers are not nearly as popular as they
were, now living expenses are so high.
“Cauboy”: Professor Osborne, a former
film censor, uttered an obvious truth when
he said the other day that the movies had
become so respectable that soon little cen-
sorship would be needed. The Hollywood
nabobs became so alarmed at the world-wide
outburst against the insanitary nature of
their goods that a couple of years ago they
formed a private censorship of their own.
By common consent it was agreed to cut
PAVLOVA, who, in “Giselle,” begins her Sydney
season at the Royal on Saturday night.
everything out of the films which could offend
the tenderest susceptibilities. The Roman
orgies which were a feature of the screen
a few years ago went west and so did
much of the lip-chewing which passed for
kissing. Anything which savored of the
slightest criticism of conventional morality
was also barred. The pictures emerged from
the ordeal shorn of much of their vulgarity
but also minus everything which makes the
drama a vital commentary on life. In fact,
the cinema was left with little to talk about
but mother-love, and the average scenario
became eligible for a place in the Family
Herald tradition beloved of our grandmas.
As a consistent barracker for the flesh and
blood drama. I welcome the change. Let the
movies keep their Charles Car vices and their
Ethel M. Dells. The legitimate stage will
still be a haven for the Galswortliys, the
Shaws and the O’Neills, provided the cen-
sors aren’t allowed to mess about with that.
“C.R.”: The bare legs of the chorus in
“This Year of Grace,” at Melbourne Royal,
have moved sundry carping critics to hint
at parsimony on the part of the Firm. The
fact is that the girls have to make no less
than 16 changes every evening, and it is all
they can do to pull off one scanty piece of
upper raiment to don another, let alone
change socks.
“L.H’.P.”: The youth of most of the
“Young "Woodley” performers recalls the days
of the juvenile opera and dramatic com-
panies. Ben Fuller started as a small police-
man and pii-ate in Carte’s juvenile “Pirates
of Penzance” co., at London Savoy matinees,
in the early ’eighties. About that time Aus-
tralia was rich in juvenile troupes run by
the Pollards, Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis, George
Dean, Teddy McLean and Stanley and
Darbyshire. They mostly dabbled in comic
operas, but McLean’s mob played “Struck
Oil” and similar pieces. Tom Pollard and
his clever troupe started in 1892 and event-
ually developed into a capable adult co.
that gave the stage May Beatty, Billy Percy,
Jack Ralston (now in “The Desert Song”),
Charlie Albert and other good folk. Tom’s
repertoire at the end was 60 pieces, _ and
he could have played them all in 60 nights
if necessary, so well drilled and versatile
were his. artists. “Little Lord Fauntleroy”
produced Grace Hopkins and Olive Berkeley,
two Lilliputian stars who played the title-
rSle on alternate nights.


“Pioneer” Means Dependable Power Transmission.
rA.
S 5
'if
4 «iishio
What are your most difficult belting problems? Are
they heavy, gruelling main drives where the belt must
withstand the constant strain of transmitting hundreds
of horse-power day in and day out, or light, high-
speed drives where extreme accuracy is essential to
minimise vibration and slippage?
Whatever your problems may be you will find
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
absolutely dependable under all conditions of service. Our 70 years of belting
experience are at your disposal in helping to solve your particular problems.
We know working conditions.
J. C. LUDOWICI CD. SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Tanners and Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen’s
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane;
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Mclvell & Sons,
Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards k Upton,
Auckland.
Patterson & Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire*
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
If You Appoint a Friend Your Executor and
Trustee
He may die soon after you, with the resultant heavy expense
to your estate of appointing a new Trustee. If you appoint
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (LIMITED)
the question of a new Trustee will never arise.
Write or call for Free Explanatory Booklet.
Nos. 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director: R. COPLAND-LETHBRIDGE.
Manager: H. V. DOUGLASS.
8.43.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Obdinary Department.
Written
Off, or
Provided
Against Added
Total Ex- Depre- to
Income. Claims, penses. ciation. Funds.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1900.. 2,364,216 1.178,107 213,268 17,737 955,104
1905.. 2,794,231 1,642,311 245,242 38,701 ( ar -
Aid to Industrial Department 12,000 J 000,94/
1910.. 3,492,093 1,841,184 291,775 30,360 1,322.771
1916.. 4,353,213 2,578,973 369,172 30,473 1,374,595
1918.. 5.078,819 3,376,417 433,514 43,096 1,225,792
1919.. 5,191,387 3,097,941 477,688 00,471 1,555,287
1920.. 5,634,997 2.688,538 555,863 90,112 2,300,484
1921.. 5,882,755 2,816,764 595,440116,191 2,354,360
1922.. 6,225,479 3,210,194 626,422236,525 2,153,338
1923.. 6,579,192 3,460,862 665,855 291.286 2.171,189
1924.. 7,066,013 3,475,809 703,097 83,251 2,803,795
1925.. 7,478,871 3,623,206 727,206112,880 3,015,579
1926.. 7,911,325 3,808,764 748,221125,144 3,229.190
1927.. 8,429,228 4,209,829 799,365 51,902 3,368,132
1928.. 8,872,654 4,383,268 842,804 58,901 3,587,681
It is quite easy to be misled by figures. This
is an age of credit systems; and insurance
is one of the few things we still have to
pay cash for. llow is the community really
behaving, so far as insurance is concerned, in
these circumstances?
First of all, if £lOOO of insurance was a
fair thing for a man in 1010, he ought co
have a shade over £lBOO now—say, £lB2O.
That is to say, his dependants cannot buy
any more bread and cheese and clothes and
building materials (which means house
accommodation) for £lB2O now than they
could for £lOOO in 1910. Let us drop an-
other table of comparisons in here:—
Renewal New Ex- New Busi-
Premiums. Premiums. penses. ness Cost.
1877 .. £363,346 £39,951 £58,905 99.6 p.c
1887 .. 837,164 103,694 131,591 70.1 „
1897 .. 1,220,405 105,788 179,215 87.4 „
1910 .. 2,022,470 185,559 291,775 79.8 „
1915 . . 2,521,634 232,768 369,172 82.5 „
1920 . . 3,153,682 334,682 555,863 99.9 ~
1922 . . 3,422,427 339,068 626,422 113.9 ~
1923 .. 3,562,316 387,063 665,855 107.4 „
1924 . . 3,783,274 465,030 703,097 94.3 ~
1925 . . 4,026,766 473,422 727,206 94.1 ~
1926 . . 4,245,046 469,259 748,221 96.1 ~
1927 . . 4,447,024 600,020 799,365 81.3 „
1928 .. 4,684,114 580,771 842,804 88.7 ~
A.M.P. new premiums were £185,559 in 1910 ;
and if £lOOO then was worth what £lB2O is now,
on present values the 1910 figure was equal
to. say, £338,000. Actually, the new-pre-
miums figure for last year was £580,771,
which leaves £242,771 to represent the in-
surance on the extra population which Aus-
tralia has acquired. Thus the new-premium
income of the A.M.P. has increased by about
72 p.c.; but as the population has increased
only 43 p.c., it looks as if the community is
sticking to insurance very well indeed.
At the same time, it does not seem that
there is any present increase in the number
of new policy-holders per thousand of popu-
lation. In 1913, the year before the Great
War, the average population of Australia
was about 4,850,000, and the A.M.P. wrote
24,328 new policies; that was a shade less
than 1 for every 200 people. The population
on Sept. 30 last year was 6,350,000, and a
new policy was written for every 206 of the
population, men, women and children. But
whereas the A.M.P. granted £144 of new
insurance for every hundred of the popula-
tion in 1913, it granted no less than £255
in the past year. Allowing for the decrease
in the buying power of money, insurances
for £245 would be about equal to insurances
for £144 in 1913. So, from this point of
view also, it looks as if Australia is n6t
neglecting its obligation to insure, even
though it has to pay cash for the service.
In fact, ; it seems to be doing a bit better
than it thought necessary before the Great
War.
True, the foregoing figures can be taken
as giving only a general indication of the
trend of things, because the A.M.P. carries
on business outside Australia, and it may
be that the proportion of this foreign busi-
ness year by year is not uniform. Still
it doesn’t amount to a great deal, and the
chances are that it is not much of a disturb-
ing element.
The “Wild Cat” can’t tell precisely where
the new policies come from ; but it can tell
where the existing policies have their homes:
Policies. Assurances.
N. S. Wales 290,816 £57,484,693
Victoria 268,037 44,090,405
Maoriland 146,186 39,616,351
Queensland 79,660 • 18,850,847
S. Australia 71,472 15,600,301
Westralia 48,730 12,316,841
Tasmania 19,526 4,607,987
England, etc. . . . . 15,387 9,645,635
That puts N. S. Wales well in the lead so
far as both number aud amount is con-
cerned ; and it wasn't so even in that year
1913 which was taken as a basis of com-
parison just now. In that year Victoria
had_ 81,954 policies and N. S. Wales only
80,735; but the sum assured in N. S. Wales
was slightly the greater. That the N.S.W.
assurances have now got so far ahead is no
doubt due mainly to the fact that the more
rapid growth of business in N. S. \Y ales
lias occurred during the period when, for a
time, £2OO was worth less than £lOO had
been a few’ years earlier.
Costs have naturally increased, too, but
not so much as might have been expected.
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1905.. £8 15 6 p.c. 1 1923.. £lO 2 5 p.c.
1910.. 8 7 1 „ 1924.. 9 19 0 „
1915.. 8 9 7 „ 1 1925.. 9 14 6 „
1920.. 9 17 3 „ I 1926.. 9 9 1 „
1921.. 10 2 5 „ 1927.. 9 9 8 „
1922.. 10 1 3 „ | 1928.. 9 10 0 „
An earlier table showed new business cost
as 88.7 p.c. of the exes., a substantial in-
crease on the previous year’s figure, though
still a wonderfully good one. This is based
on an arbitrary assumption that renew’al
business costs 7 p.c. and that the balance
of exes, is consumed by the hunt for new
business. That the expenses compared with
total exes, have grown so little is surprising
even though it may be true that it should
be as easy to sell a £5OO policy as it w r as
to book a £3OO policy a few years ago. Pro-
bably because the war got us used to big
figures and a few millions no longer terrify
us, the average policy these days is far larger
than it used to be, even allowing for the
difference in the buying power of money.
The average policy written now is £52(5,
whereas, in .1913, the year before the war,
the average was only £2BB.
Still there are not many trading con-
cerns whose exes, (including taxes) are not
much greater in proportion to turnover than
they were 15 years ago. Taxes are not so
considerable in the life-insurance business
as in most; but even here there has been a
stinging increase. In 1913 they amounted to
only £3(5,304 so far as the A.M.P. wms con-
cerned, or 0.9 p.c. of tbe total revenue for
the year. Last year they were £148,140. or
1.7 p.c. of the year’s revenue, The society
paid about £70,000 more last year than it
would have done on the 1913 basis of taxa-
tion. And the “Wild Cat” is afraid it is
not a bit of use sending tbe bill to the Kaiser.
However, now and then most: of us can
get a little of our own back. As, for
example:—
Interest Realised on Average Funds.
1905.. £4 9. 8 p.c. 1924.. £5 11’ll p.c.
1910.. 4 9 8,, 1925.. 5 12 5
1914.. 4 12 10 „ 1926.. 5 14 2 ”
1920.. 5 4 10 ~ 1927.. 5 14 0 „
1923.. 5 10 3 „ 1928.. 6 14 7 ”
The society is getting about 1} p.c. more for
money than it could average in the later
pre-war days; and 1-) p.c. on the £64,110,247,
the total of the funds in the Ordinary depart-
ment, means over £BOO,OOO a year. Along-
side that, the extra sum paid in taxation can
he forgotten.
One result of the great increase in interest
earnings, coupled with the very small per-
centage increase in exes., has been a splen-
did addition to bonuses. The following table
shows how these have varied in relation to
premiums paid on participating policies:—
1893-1898.. 34.1 p.c. 1919.. .. 38.0 p.c.
1898-1903. . 34.8 „ 1920. . 3S 8
1903-1908.. 36.0 „ 1994 ' 42 '4 ’
1908-1913.. 38.2 „ 1922'.'. ” 47 - 3 ”
1914 .. 39.2 „ 1924.. .. 52.9 ”
1915 .. 30.8 „ 1925.. ;. 54.5 „
1916 .. 30.1 „ 1926.. .. 57.7 ,
1917 .. 18.6 „ 1927.. .. 57.9 ”
1918 .. 32.6 „ 1928.. .. 58.1 „
Still, these bonuses don’t mean half as much
as the salesman may try to make you think.
A bonus isn’t something produced by alchemy.
Actually, it is the amount estimated to have
been over-charged for services rendered or
to be rendered. But the public dearly loves
to get something for nothing; and because
so many of us believe we get insurance
bonuses for nothing, great store is set on
high figures. What really does matter is
net cost of insurance. That is to say, pre-
mium paid, less bonus declared; and, of
course, you must know the cash value of the
bonus to arrive at the net cost. But though
few responsible insurance men relish this
maintenance of high premiums in order that
big and spectacular bonuses may be declared,
they, like the “Wild Cat,” accept the system
with a shrug. Maybe the means justify the
end. At any rate, there is certainly this
good result: some hundreds of thousands of
people, since they do not collect the bonuses
in cash, pay for more insurance than they
set out to buy.
The funds of the society are invested in
these proportions:—
1905. 1915. 1920. 1925. 1928.
p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c.
Loans on mortgage.. 43.5 36.7 22.9 23.4 24.6
Public securities .. 26.7 41.3 59.3 57.8 55 3
Premises .. .. 1.8 1.8 1.7 1.5 1.8
Loans on policies .. 20.5 16.3 13.2 14.0 14.7
Other assets.. .. 6.4 3.9 2.9 3.3 3.6
Loans on mortgage are creeping up (along,
unfortunately, with loans on policies), and
the proportion in public securities is creep-
ing down, though the amount thus invested
is still much more than half of the whole.
The investment in premises is exceptionally
small; but it has to be remembered that this
society has been accumulating funds for SO
years, and it takes very little more office to
deal with a policy 25 years old than one
written only a few months ago.
The Industrial Department.
. Added to
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds
1918. . £503,360 £35,140 £145,262 £322 958
1919.. 693.859 30,850 181,379 381 630
1920.. 705,525 67,386 217,869 420 270
1921.. 830,709 68,326 253.515 508'868
1922.. 967,988 107,579 276,749 683,660
1923. . 1,118,109 138,902 299,250 )
Written off, £21,222 t 658, 1 35
1924.. 1,245.064 181,918 331,094 ) QQ .
Written off, £ll6B J 730,884
1925. . 1,397,888 227,059 362,824 ) „„„
Written off, £lO,Bll \ <9i,194
1926.. 1,557,073 365,494 389,855 )
Written off, £15,302 ( i 80,422
1927. . 1,716,059 485,709 423,964 ) „„
Written off, £6007 f 800,379
1928. 583,292 455,849 ) orl
Written off, £6837 f 8b 1,873
In the Ordinary department the exes., not
including taxes, amounted to 12.13 p.c. of
the premium income; in the Industrial de-
partment the cost was 27.74 p.c. This latter
is an exceptionally low rate, and is greatly
helped by the comparative bulk, of the aver-
age A.M.P. Industrial policy. Last year, for
instance, the average of the 63,623 new poli-
cies issued was nearly £6B; and the society
is constantly passing the most promising of
the Industrial policy-holders on to the Ordi-
nary department. Indeed, it seems time to
start a campaign for swinging over Indus-
trial policy-holders. There is no earthly hope
of a low expense rate in the Industrial sec-
tion, and people who can trust themselves
to save up a quarter’s premiums are simply
feeding strange persons instead of their own
wives and children by hanging on to the
Industrial instead of crossing over to the
Ordinary. Certainly the A.M.P. pays bonuses
on the most persistent of Industrial policies
(£230,291 is available for distribution this
year) : but that doesn’t alter the. fact that
the Industrial policy-holder has to bear ex-
penses from two to three times greater than
he would in the other department.
General Industries, Ltd.
This co. owns all but about 9000 of the
shares in Metters, Ltd., and all those of
K.F.B. Foundry. Ltd. The co. was regis-
tered on July 14, 1927, to acquire the ord.
and prof, shares in both cos. The 142,193
ords. in the K.F.B. concern were taken
over on a share-for-share basis, while holders
of Metters’ ords. received three ords. and
two “B” deferred ords. for every three ords.
then held. The deferred “B” shares were
issued for reserves, hidden and disclosed, in
the Metters co.. and their deferment expires
on Oct. 1, 1930, after which they rank
equally with the ords. In the meantime
dividends on their behalf are at the dis-
cretion of the board, and are payable only
after the prefs. (£289,550 of 7 per cents.)
have been attended to and 10 p.c. handed to
the ords.
Here are details of earnings since the
merger so far as disclosed in the accounts
of the holding co.: —
t Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
March, Profits. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1928* 42,186 12,906 5 p.c. = 27,394 1886 1886
Feb.,
1929 90,777 20,229 10 „ „ 70,240 f 308 2194
*Eight months.
(Including 5 p.c. on 294,419 deferred ords.
Combined earnings in three operating cos.
in which this holding co. is interested were
given for the first time in the last accounts,
and, with the exception of the Metters co.,
cover 12 months’ operations to Dec. 31 last.
Metters’ figures cover only 11 months. After
providing for depreciation, taxation, etc., a
net profit of £90,473 is shown. The exact
rate and amount of dividend is not ascertain-
able, but after the final div. amounting to
£39,462 had been paid (of which the holding
co. received £39,129), a balance of £68,134
remained to be carried forward. The holding
co. showed a net profit of £90,777 for the
term as against £42,186 in the previous eight
months. After attending to the prefs. and
handing the ords. 10 p.c., the board was so
satisfied w-ith the position that a 5 p.c. div
was declared on the “B” deferred shares,
leaving £3OB to be carried to reserves
(£2194).
A satisfactory year with increasing turn-
over is reported. In Queensland additional
land adjoining the present warehouse has
been purchased in anticipation of future
expansion, and the Victorian pup, Metters
K.F.B. Pty., Ltd., has erected factory and
foundry premises covering about three acres
on its" 13-acre freehold at Footscray, and
manufacturing has commenced there. A
fourth subsidiary, Metters (N.Z.). Ltd.
(which is apparently an offspring of Metters.
Ltd.), has a factory at Petone (M.L.), and
is now making a profit; but the board does
not consider any great expansion in Maori-
land likely until there is a more adequate
tariff.
Altogether the co. controls manufacturing
plant as follows:
Metters, Ltd Sydney, Adelaide, Perti
Metters K.F.B. Pty., Ltd. .. Melbourne
Metters (N.Z.), Ltd Wellington (M.L.)
K.F.B. Foundry, Ltd . . . • Sydney
In addition Metters, Ltd., has _a distributing
house in Brisbane. The lot is represented
in the combined accounts of the three largest
subsidiaries by land and buildings, £396,481;
plant, tools and patents, £312.609; stocks.
£378,715; book debts. £225,168; shares in
other cos. (apparently in the M.L. co.),
£35,000; cash, etc., £965. The outside debt
totted up to £157,071.
At February 28 last all but 423 ords. and
8605 prefs. in the Metters co. had been con-
verted into General Industries shares, and,
including the 100,000 prefs. issued for cash
in July, 1927, paid capital was £1,140.111
in 289,550 7 p.c. cum. prefs., 556,142 ords.,
and 294,419 “B” deferred ords., all fully
paid. Capital, £5436 of outside debt and
p. and 1. balance (£54,857) were represented
on the other side of the sheet by invest-
ments (£1,189,984) and sundry debtors
(£10,420). Investments, of course, are the
co.’s holdings in the three subsidiaries, and
the increase in their book value during the
term amounted to £114,504. As only
£29,504 of that increase is due to conversions
of Metters scrip during the year, it looks
as though the balance (£85,000) was invested
in the Victorian subsidiary to help finance
the latter’s establishment outlay. The aggre-
gate' paid capital of the three subsidiaries
was £904,524 in 180,000 7 p.c. prefs. and
724,524 ords. at Dec. 31 last, and at Feb-
ruary 28 £895,496 of that vvas held by
General Industries. Total visible reserves
at Dec. 31 in Metters, K.F.B. Foundry and
Metters K.F.B. Pty. amounted to £231.454.
Including these, the face value of G.l.’s
holding was about £1,126,000, or roughly
£63,000 less than the book value of its invest-
ments at Feb. 28 last. Since goodwill did
not figure in the deal, this difference is pro-
bably more than compensated by internal
reserves in fixed assets.
Although last year's disclosed profits were
£4377 short of the combined figures shown
by Metters and K.F.B. in their last accounts
published before the merger, the board's
alacrity in handing out. the 5 p.c. div. on
the deferred ords., leaving only a few pounds
for reserves, suggests that profits have been
conservatively written. The issue of the
deferred ords. makes the position of the ords.
not so strong as it w r as in the case of the
old Metters co., but the elimination of the
price war between Mottoes and K.F.B.
should largely compensate.
The prefs. have a backing of £3 18s. lid.
according to the holding co.’s books, and the
ords. and deferreds £1 on the same basis.
The backing according to the valuation
placed on assets in the working cos.’
accounts would be slightly less in either ease,
but, as suggested before, those valuations
could probably be stretched without breaking
anything. The market prices the prefs. at
225. 0d„ thereby getting a return of 6.2
p.c. The ords. are priced at 325. 9d., at
which figure the return is 6.1 p.c. on a 10
p.c. div. basis. The deferreds are priced at
30s. 6d.
McDonnell and East, Ltd. (Brisbane).
, Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profits. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
Al £ £ £ £
1921.. 15,347 720 8 p.c. = 11,593 3,034 980
Reserves disclosed, £5196 .. .. 6,176
Loss. Deficit.
1922.. 1,080 720 3 p.c. = 5,436 1,060
Profit.
1923.. 9,428 720 5 „ „ 9,060 1,412
Loss.
1924.. 2,211 720 Nil 4,343
Profit. Reserves.
1925.. 17,277 720 6 p.c. = 11,015 5,542 1,199
Deficit.
Added goodwill, £2750 .. .. 1,551
Reserves.
1926.. 20,381 720 7 p.c. = 12,851 6,810 5,259
Added goodwill, £2750 .. .. 2,509
1927.. 14,195 720 7 p.c. = 13,015 460 2,969
Added goodwill, £2750 .. .. 219
1928.. 11,240 720 Nil 10,520 10,739
Added goodwill, £2750 . . . . 7,989
1929.. 15,176 720 6 p.c. = 11,162 3,294 11,283
Now' this is bad luck: just when the co.,
after a pretty hard struggle, seems to have got
out of the roughest seas, both of its founders
and managing directors have had to say good-
bye to the business and to life within the
year. Fortunately they had sons brought up
in the business, and two of them have taken
the tiller.
A business of this sort really shouldn't
show results so uneven as the figures in
the first column. But the past 15 years
have been quite abnormal. Following the
war came a boom and following the boom
came a slump. In many cases it wasn’t
seriously the trader’s fault that he was hit.
He had ordered stuff long ago, it hadn’t come,
he had ordered more to keep his trade going,
and then stuff began to pour in on him.
This co. had some such experience: it had
to w T rite down its over-heavy stocks in
1921-22, and repeat the process a little later.
When that misadventure was past the direc-
tors decided that it was time the co. had


J 111
°uble you
PULL UP
REMOVE
tin Cwsulc
X
DRAW the Corks \
7 rith finger t thumb
l
THE CORRECT CEREMONY
WHEN OPENING A BOTTLE OF
JOHNNIE WALKER WHISKY
with the HEW STOPPER
'“FAKE a bottle of Johnnie Walker in
the left hand—
Pull up the tag, with the right hand and
the right flourish—
Remove the capsule with due formality
and without undue eagerness, if possible.
Then, with finger and thumb withdraw
the honest cork that has brought to you
in perfect security the whisky that has
made and kept more friends than
any other whisky in the world.
r~
\
,3
tij’jss
w't 1
&
n*
V*
Born 1820-
Still going Strong
JOHNNIE WAMCER
WHISKY
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, LONDON, and KILMARNOCK


Are Your Invest-
ments ROCKY?
MORE THAN HALF
OF ALL REGISTERED
COMPANIES FAIL.
<r
ONLY THE EXPERT
CAN READ THE SIGNS
Australia’s leading ex-
pert is
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
APRIL NUMBER NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY. 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or ‘ Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
Many installations of “Pioneer” Wood Pipe in
Australia which have been in constant use 'over
a number of years prove conclusively the great
efficiency of this modern conduit. Maintenance costs
are practically nil, owing to the fact that Pioneer
Wood Pipe is absolutely non-corrosive. Ease and
cheapness of freighting, transporting and laying are
all points that give wood pipe a great advantage
over metal pipe. Write for illustrated book to the
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road
(near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at
Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
W. Soren Jensen, Mining Engineer, Assoc. 1.M.M.,
London, M.A.1.M.E., A.C.T.S.M., etc., 33 Boyle
Street?, Cremorne, Sydney. Box 220 D., G.P.0.,
Sydney. ’Phone, BWIIO6.
* * # *
Inventors. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hasssel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castiereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt,
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Codmson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.- — Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree.— Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
m
s m^s
S'
y
m
! Bb>.
Si
[PREPARED]
Guaranteed by the manufacturers to
go further, last longer and uniformly
give better results than any other
paint made. —“8.P.”
"KEEPS ON KEEPING ON!”
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
Jp
i&Jv r
U/y
D
IS
w
, BOORD&, So N
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
%
DTO
A
-Swift & Company Ltd.. AiiHtruluHiun Agents, ‘i6 30 Clarence St., Sydney,
Recognise Your Duty and Appoint a Reliable Executor
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED
(The Pioneer Trustee Company of Australia )
412 Collins Street, Melbourne,
is specially qualified to act as your Executor and Trustee.
Its experience of over 50 years is ample assurance that it will manage your affairs to the best
advantage. Unlike an individual the Company is permanent, and its Capital and Assets are
available for the protection of Clients’ interests.
DIRECTORS: Sir John Grice (Chairman), Sir J. H. MacFarland, M.A., LL.D. (Vice-Chairman),
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, Alexander Stewart, J. Fordyce.
Empowered by Special Acts of Parliament to operate in the States
of New South Wales and Victoria.
CHAS. R. SMTBERT. General Manager V. G. WATSON. Manager.
a home worthy of wdiat they hoped the future
would be: and both capital and outside
liabilities have moved up in consequence:—
1926. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital .. .. £170,338 £178,177 £181,027
Mortgages . . . . 16,200 46,200 53,500
Overdraft .. . . 28,862 54,699 49,649
Sundry creditors . . 32,045 33,523 41,220
Land, buildings, plant, etc. 64,107 108,655 128,143
Stocks 111,617 117,005 107,570
Book debts, cash, etc. .. 94,825 102,297 111,836
The directors expect that the changes will
make a heap of difference in the turnover
figures. “Customers have a fine, comfort-
able, cool shop, no difficulty in finding the
departments, a staff endeavoring to give the
best possible service, and plenty of room for
display and lay-out of goods.” Probably
that explains why gross profits moved up last
year, beating all previous records: —
1922 .. ..£49,097 I 1926 .. ..£90,800
1923 .. .. 57,713 1 1927 .. .. 82,960
1924 .. .. 47,936 I 1928 .. .. 84,063
1925 . . . . 80,765 1 1929 . . . . 90,977
Considering the heavy hand that has lately
been laid upon Southern and Central Queens-
land any improvement at all in the figures
is creditable. The current year’s weather
conditions promise to be more favorable ; but
the burden of taxation, direct and indirect,
is still very heavy, and shows no signs of
early improvement.
There is £1)000 of 8 p.c. pref. capital;
these shares are not quoted oftener than
once in a blue moon. The ords., which have
a backing on paper of 21s. 3d., are worth
about 14s. 9d. in the market; at that price
they show just more than S p.c. on a 6 p.c.
dividend basis. It is a low price for shares
with that backing; but it has to be remem-
bered that tlie liabilities are now heavy, the
reserves are much too light, and the new
managing directors have to prove themselves
in that position.
Practically all Queensland interests
acquired a smile last week when general rain
fell—the best perhaps for five years. Even
the south-west got some, though, as a rule,
not enough—it. takes a lot of wet, spread
over several weeks, to wipe out the effects
of a three to five years’ drought. Given the
rain, this country recovers almost magically:
but there is a stiff fight with the overdraft
and the mortgage ahead of most western
men. Grass alone won’t wipe out a mort-
gage. During every drought these splendid
battlers hand-feed their stock wherever and
whenever they can; after every drought they
mostly swear they will never do it again.
And there’s the problem of re-stocking, too.
* * * *
A letter from one of the owners (and the
“Wild Cat” is ready to certify that he has
been a straightgoer in all the years he has
been under its eye) :
Herewith I send yon two specimens of tantalite from
Litchfield and Lugg’s show, Tantalite Gully, West
Arm, North Australia. This lode at date of writing
(March 3) is some 33 feet wide, and has been
traced for 75 yards along the surface. It lives
down to water-level, some 6 feet, but how much
deeper it goes one cannot say at present.
But even if it goes no deeper there are some
16,000 cubic yards of lode in sight, with the
tantalite thick in it, in lumps up to lib. in weight.
Tests by the Darwin Mines Department have given
from 70 up to 85 per cent, tantalite, the best, we
are told, the world has yet seen.
If the tests made in the Southern laboratories
bear out the tests made at Darwin, it looks as if
this mine will prove to be the good thing that the
Territory has so long looked for.
We welcome the fullest investigation by mining
men, as the claim is really too big for two miners
to attempt to develop by themselves. The Mines
Department, Darwin, might satisfy them of our
bona fides. The one regret we have is that this find
should occur just at the time that Southern mining
men are disturbed over an alleged tantalite swindle.
Our claim is registered wdth the Mines Department,
and the Chief Warden has inspected and reported
upon the find, and is enthusiastic over the discovery.
* * * *
Broken Hill is elated at the rise in the
price of lead, but does not expect much from
it just yet. The North, South and Zinc
Corporation are already working to capacity,
and there is only sufficient water in the
reservoirs to keep these going until June.
If the closed mines reopened the draw would
exhaust supplies before then.
* * * *
In 1907 the B. H. South, having greatly
assisted to establish the mechanical pro-
cesses of extraction from Broken Hill
sulphides, built a mill, and it soon began to
spread all over the place, with additions and
flotation plants and so on. These are all
now being brought under the one roof of
a new steel and concrete structure, and
the first half of an entirely new con-
centrating section is about ready to be
put into operation. The c.o. is also sinking
a new shaft larger than any of the existing
shafts; this and the new treatment plant
means an expenditure so large that it would
not be warranted if exhaustion could be seen
even 25 years ahead. The North is putting
down a new shaft at a cost which would buy
most mines ten times over; yet it dogs not
expect to really need it until another four or
five years have gone by. The Zinc Corporation,
for its part, is stripping an old shaft. And
the work which has been done by prospecting
companies shows that the purely imaginary
lines at the southern end of the Zinc Cor-
poration and the northern end of the North
mine do not define the ends of the Broken
Hill ore body as was for so long believed.
That ils what those experts wdio know
Broken Hill best think about its future.
* * * *
During the last five years so many samples
of black sand from the beaches extending
almost from Byron Bay to Ballina (N.S.W.)
have been shipped to Sydney for analysis
that the shippers at last became butts for
local humor. Failing to induce Australian
capital to look kindly into the business, one
leaseholder took samples to America, and,
after getting an analyst's report, the Yanks
sent a representative to take samples direct
from Byron Bay beach. These so satisfied
America that exploitation is to start. Appar-
ently, besides the small gold, tin and platinum
content, U.S.A. hopes to retrieve some
material of value in paint i nufacture.
* * * *
Now somebody wants a few pounds to try
a bit of ground 40 miles west of Goulburn
for diamonds and gold. The enterprise hopes
to live as the Austral Diamond and Gold-
Sluicing Co. Well, gold can be specked in
a thousand places on the western N.S.W.
watershed and plains; but hitherto diamonds
have been nothing but stringers-on. Still,
thank God for the optimists!
* * * *
Roma Oil Corp. issued its second annual
report on March 26; but the accompanying
accounts were made up only to November
30, since when 12,500 £1 shares have been
sold at a premium of £l. (The issue was
largely over-subscribed.) The co. has let
the public so completely into its confidence
that the directors’ report tells nothing new.
At November 30 the co. owed £3OOO to the
Lander Co. and £3B outside; and there is
the Commonwealth grant of £6861 —a sort of
contingent liability. At that date it had
£1797 cash in hand. Plant and machinery
were in at £29,265, development stands at.
£45,795 and establishment account £8676. It
is a good thing for the oil search in Australia
that this venture got into the hands of men
who so strongly combine honesty and enthu-
siasm with a sound knowledge of the value
of sixpence.
* * * *
Details of the amalgamation of the Lake
View and Golden Horseshoe interests show
that the Lake buys Horseshoe mine, stores
and machinery for 900,000 f.p. 4s. shares,
Lake increasing its share capital from
1,800,000 4s. shares, of which 1,700,000 are
issued, to 2.700,000 shares. Lake View
assumes liability for the Horseshoe loan of
£56,500 guaranteed by the W.A. Govern-
ment, Horseshoe paying Lake View £50,000
cash. Horseshoe keeps the tailings with
right to treat, retaining any of the plant
and stores required for that purpose up to
December 31.
* * * *
A State as badly in need of a productive
job.as Queensland is might do worse than
look up Stannary Hills again. True, it failed
when John Darling had it, and .lolin Darling
was chairman of the Broken Hill Prop., with
great resources of men and money at com-
mand. Bur it may be that the knowledge
of those great resources was the group’s
worst curse. Certainly an awful lot of
money was wasted. The mill was seven
miles from the mines, and the ore was man-
handled in some cases half a dozen times.
At both mines and mill there was an im-
pressive staff —at one time it took 60 men
to run 30 head of stamps. Of course, the
ore is bunchy. All tin ore is. But Ivanhoe,
Eclipse, Kitchener, Extended, Central Hill
and Black Rock are apparently on one main
ore channel. At the Ivanhoe, with a shaft
down 600 ft. and a wunze 100 ft. deeper, there
was good ore in the bottom: it wasn’t at
all unusual for a big tonnage of Stannary
ore to go 4 p.c. Few, if any, of the other
mines have been ratted below 300 ft. Of all
the managers Stockdale got nearest real suc-
• cess; but he banked largely on improving
the recovery, and really the recovery wasn’t
bad.
The re-opening of old mines on the ground
that Dad left good stone grinning at him is
generally a delusion and a snare so far
as simple gold veins are concerned. But
the case may be quite different with base-
metal mines, and especially those offering
extraction problems. The variation of the
industrial metal markets alone makes re-
opening in some cases as natural and proper
as their earlier abandonment.
* * * *
Huey Yot, a tin-dredging proposition in
Southern Siam, floated in 1924 in the F.M.S.,
largely among Siamese, astonished its Aus-
tralian shareholders the other day by issuing
a circular calling an extraordinary general
meeting at Penang for April 4, to consider
the advisability of accepting an offer of pur-
chase from Tin Selection Trust, Rangoon, a
subsidiary of a London co. of the same' name.
The offer, subject to prompt acceptance, was
that each ordinary shareholder should receive
20s. net cash and each preference share-
holder 275. 6d. net cash, the extra 7s. 6d.
representing accrued interest.
Originally formed as a dollar (F.M.S.)
co., the capital was converted to sterling in
1925, and stood at £140,000 in £1 shares,
70,000 being fully paid ords. and the balance
12 p.c. fully-paid prefs. The co.’s assets
include cash, £1257, and debtors, £2066; its
liabilities are, outside creditors, £19,911;
accrued pref. interest, £20,746. The offer
includes the payment of these and all
other liabilities, including liquidation costs,
by the prospective purchaser. The extra-
ordinary meeting has accepted the offer,
and another meeting was to be held a few
days after to confirm the resolution.
Huey Yot, after a period of vicissitudes,
began producing on a commercial scale some
four months ago, following on the reconstruc-
tion of the management and alterations in
working methods. Shareholders were begin-
ning to smell dividends in the distance when
the circular was issued. Tin Selection is
under the same control as Anglo-Oriental
Mining Co. (which recently carried through
the big Alluvial Tin deal), London Malayan
Trust and London Tin Syndicate. This com-
bination, with the co-operation of American
interests, now has control of the Nigerian
output, and is believed to be aiming at con-
trol of all the world’s tin-producing interests.
The Huey Yot circular gave the Australian
shareholders, who" are in a great majority,
24 hours’ notice of the general meeting in
Penang. It is ambiguous, and what has hap-
pened is that the company, in general meet-
ing, has decided on selling the whole of its
assets for cash, which the directors will con-
trol in place of the mine and its equipment.
Only by liquidation will shareholders obtain
the return of their capital: it is impossible!
for the offer to be made to individual share-
holders, as inferred in the circular, in which
the word “shareholders” is obviously intended
to stand for “company.” It is true that
shareholders are given the option of exchang-
ing their holdings for shares at par in the
equivalent English co. to be formed, but.
there is no information as to what extent
that co. may water its interest, so that offer
lias a nebulous aspect at present. The ques-
tion remains as to whether it is a good thing
for the shareholders of Huey Yot to put
themselves and their cash in the hands of
the directorate without a guarantee of some
sort.
* * * *
Takuapa, already working one Siamese
property with two dredges, has acquired
another area known as Ban Pru, in the Haad
Yai district and some distance south of the
co.’s present holdings, being some 17 miles
from Singora, an east-coast port. To finance
the deal Takuapa is issuing 100,000 deben-
tures of £1 each. The total cost of acquiring
the property, with development and the in-
stallation of a dredge of 125,000 e.y. per
month capacity, is estimated at £90,000. It
is hoped to have the tool at work on the
new area within 24 months of placing the
order, which is not making much allowance
for contingencies. Meantime the co. ex-
pects to maintain the quarterly dividends of
Is. per share.
Boring on the Ban Pru area has disclosed
some 13 million c.y. worth 13oz. tin oxide, this
assaying 75 p.c. metallic tin. With tin at
£220, London —it was quoted at £2lB 11s. 3d.
on Saturday—and the dredge working to
contract capacity, it is estimated that, after
paying interest and principal on the deben-
tures, the area will provide £160,000 addi-
tional profits annually for shareholders. The
debentures carry 12£ p.c., and are redeemable
six .years from date of allotment by four
annual payments of £25,000 beginning at the
end of the third year. The issue is equal
to two debentures for every five shares held,
and will be secured by a mortgage over the
dredges and other property of the co. and a
floating charge over all assets, including un-
called capital.
Nothing is said of the nature of the "round
encountered by the borers, but the district
has acquired a reputation for stiff clay, which
has interfered with other cos. Paid capital is
£250,000 in £1 f.-p. ords.
* * * *
“Oiler”: L. C. Ball, Government Geologist
of Queensland, not only committed himself
to the statement that much oil had been
found in marine tertiaries similar to those
of Lakes Entrance (Vic.), but after inspect-
ing the mud volcano on Pelican Point in
Lake Victoria, declared that from the appear-
ance of the island he was satisfied there was
a fissure in the locality and there might be
a dome which might be favorable for the
accumulation of oil; and he thought Mud
Island was the crest of the dome. When F.
R. V. Timbury, the burly solicitor of Roma,
saw Mud Island from Pelican Point, he
stripped and swam to the island, which has
not become consolidated on the surface be-
cause natural gas continuously pours out
of the vent, bringing with it mud from which
films of oil flow away on the surface of the
water. Timbury, who weighs 19 stone, was
rescued by a long pole and a motor-launch.
Anglo-Oriental Tin, the London flotation
which recently had a hand in the purchase
of a group of the Alluvial Tin interests in
Malaya, has entered into an agreement with
Tanah Biji to bore,, at its own expense,
some 1200 acres near Malacca (F.M.S.).
Tanah Biji, an offshoot of Alluvial Tin,
which has several flotations to its credit,
including Jelapang, Serendah and Serendah
South, is to go 50-50 with Anglo-Oriental
in flotation profits if anything worth
flotation turns up.
* * * *
Burma Malay has made a promising start
with its first two subsidiaries. Katu, which
began digging a couple of months ago,
returned 60 tons from 125,000 yards in
March, an average of 1.071 b. The co. was
only formed at the end of 1026. Renong
Consolidated, which was floated some time
later and only launched the pontoon last
August, has reported an entirely successful
trial run, and anticipates setting in on a
regular day-shift by the middle of the month.


greater HUDS#M
and ESS EX The Challenger
X
Ma
h
Ml
&
o-
•*<
«
ITT-
>>
as^SS?”
n
i
as
ft
<7
K
br
’ I'm B.?
liMffi
W/
mi
♦V*'
s»
SVv*s\ *
■„ ■■mm®*
- V itlt s. /.1 V%YTUTk\*>V.*i’,k ..
J*&:t
4 MBSNh’ft •/
"/ '* s
0
Saw
'Mr
.iir%* /Mlh*
i: .-*%i
<9
K
£
NT.
K
fc
Acclaimed
Everywhere
Every motor show has increased the popular
enthusiasm for the Greater Hudson and the
New Essex the Challenger. Never before,
even in Hudson-Essex history, has a line of
motor-cars been so unanimously acclaimed.
See these big fine cars at your Hudson-Essex
dealer’s.
ŵ
ESSEX—S Balloon Tyres Standard Equipment.
NEW ESSEX.
Note the luxurious appointments and beautiful
colors. Drive them over any roads you choose
and discover their speed, endurance, economy
and riding ease. Only then will you know
why the Greater Hudson and Essex the
Challenger are winning such world-wide
popularity as the greatest values in all
motordom.
HUDSON—S Balloon Tyres
Standard Equipment.
HUDSON—I22in. Wheel Base.
Coupe (Imported Body) . . . . £535
Standard Sedan (Imported Body) . . 535
Lfendau Sedan (Imported Body) . . 610
Prices at some points slightly higher.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS LIMITED.,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
AUTOS LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER


<4
1 "fjg-t'X*'
: - 'L~~
m
Va
u?
£■ >
a
A
A
(\
\
C
'>)
r
®uxrri3Sli2
Vs
\
\
rara*-^
)J '4^:«IL.
0S
%
Vs
V
/
7a
j f!
c/e
No. 628 "4711”
Powders, perfumed
with "4711” Ean
de Cologne, 2/6 &
3/6 per box.
No. 642 Compact
Powder, perfumed
with "4711” Tosca,
4/6 each.
w,
Will not congeal
An unequalled
Shampoo (ct Die lull
No. 951 "4711”
Eau de Cologne
Liquid Shampoo,
3/- per bottle. Rose
and Eau de Cologne
perfume.
73
* if
m
SEL
m
ZfSsfs-.
No. 475 "4711”
Bath Salts, per-
fumed with "4711”
Eau de Cologne.
3/6, 4/6 & 5/6
per bottle.
No. 859 "4711”
Eau de Cologne
Soap, 1/3 per cake.
Eau de Cologne and
Lavender Perfume.
The Summer Qirl’s
Preference l
The universal popularity
of the Blue and Gold
labelled Eau de
Cologne is due to the fact
that, for nearly 150 years,
it has been made from the
finest ingredients, according
to the original recipe. It never
varies in quality, and its pur-
ity, fragrance and strength
have never been
surpassed.
When buying Eau de
Cologne insist upon the
Blue and Gold labelled
"47 11”
Obtainable from all leading
chemists and departmental
stores .
la
50UBQ
m
Uf«£«v»
Pi
.ttoc«(he*ssc»-«'" />j
EAU DE COLOGNE
No. 43
- Watch Shape
2/3
No. 5
Original Shape
6/6
No. 50
The new size
which holds as
much as 20 of
the 2/3 size,
30/-; and sizes
from 1/6 to
75/- per bottle.
&
No. 110 "4711”
" Frozoclone”
Solid Eau de
Cologne, 3/6 ft
4/6.
miMv
?rea/t
•rdJtuMc*
#
Mo. 463 "4711”
Cold Cream
1/9, 3/- & 3/9
No. 453 "4711’'
Vanishing
Cream,
1/3, 2/3 & 3/.
mi
O
Eau de
Cologne


TO INVESTORS
WITH LARGE OR SMALL AMOUNTS
The Merron Estate Ltd
FINANCIERS
Established, 1917 Authorised* Capital, £50,000
The Merron Estate, Ltd., will Accept Moneys for Deposit from £5
upwards at the following rates of interest, payable quarterly:
3 to 6 MONTHS
12 MONTHS ..
24 MONTHS . .
7 PER CENT.
10 PER CENT.
121 PER CENT.
APPLY THE SECRETARY
fHE MERRON ESTATE LT&
LONDON BANK CHAMBERS, 18 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Mils
m
ff
SHOES for MEN
ŵ
Write Desk B for Catalogue.
STONEWALL
HEAVY WEAR BOOT.
Strong Black Hide.
Specially screwed and sewn
soles. Wax-stitched reinforced
counter.
16/11
Clump "Stonehide” Soles,
19/6
Post, 1/3 ; Inter-State, 2/8.
JACKSONS II?
'stonewalC stores
Cnr Pitt 6 Goulburn S u Sydney
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Bombala” : Old Harry had a ram which
he had been taking great care of weeks
before the local show came on, and- lie was
more than disgusted when the judges did
not even give it an honorable mention in the
prize list. He was taking the ram home in
a spring cart and a friend passing remarked,
“Nice weather, Harry.” “Yes, he will be to-
morrow.” snorted the owner of the dis-
credited animal.
DIRECTIONS.
“This the road to Coolangaboo?”
“Keep on the way yer ’eadin’ an’ if yer come to a ’ ill with a church on it, you'll know
ye u took the wrong turn.”
“Wingella” : Jackie was helping his boss,
who had a small tin show in the N.T. The
thing that intrigued the abo. most was his
boss crushing a small speck of tin and rub-
bing his finger along the powder to test, by
its blackness, how the quality went. Last
week Jackie found a small loader, and
brought a tiny lump along to test, lie
crushed it as he had seen his boss do, and
then rubbed a finger, upon which coal would
have looked white, along the powder, hold-
ing it up to the light with a knowing air.
“By cripes, boss,” lie said, “that one tin all
right; him black that one.”
V * * *
“Eureka”: The sweet briar planted near
Bungonia which developed into such a pest
earned no curses from Ben Hall and his
gang of bushrangers. They were once seen
to enter a cave, and the police surrounded
the spot for days, but the gang failed to
reappear. They were miles away.
On the other side of the hill there
was another opening into this cave,
but it was thickly overgrown with
the sweet briar, and the bush-
rangers took care not to disturb it.
* * *
“Motuku” : For the small school-
shark Aga (pronounced ah-ngak)
the Tongan has a great deal of
respect, not entirely gastronomic,
but no fear. He does not generally
catch it with a hook, nor does lie
plunge his knife into it and rip it
open. The shark is a gentleman, if
not indeed a god, and must be
treated as such, and in the old
heathen days the shark-catching
was a religious ceremony under lie
direction of priests. The religious
element has disappeared, but a
good deal of the old ritual is still
followed in some localities. Aga is
enticed by the rattling of empty
cocoanut shells, with shouting and
drumming, with fulsome compli-
ments and false promises, to come
along and taste the dainty morsel
of pork that his friends have
brought him us a love gift. He is
invited to come on this side of the
canoe and on that, to go away and
to return, and at last to put his
head through the harmless little
noose of rope that dangles from
the canoe: If he is inclined to be
backward in getting his head
through the noose, one of the men
in the canoe will hop overboard and
give him a helping hand. When his
head is well through and the noose drawn
tight Aga is not a gentleman any more— h ■
is a low, boisterous fellow, and is dealt with
accordingly.
* * ♦
“The Orphan” : “Yairs.” said Steve, “Ned
Stokes knew sheep inside and out. Ever
’ear of ’is flock of weed-eaters? No? Well,
lie started with two selected ewes. Used to
lead ’em about in the young wheat crop on
a couple of dog-chains. If the ewes tried
to eat wheat he would land ’em one with is
boot, but if they nibbled only weeds ’e would
let ’em alone or pet ’em. Day after day Ned
stuck to it and within a year those sheep
’ad forgotten what wheat tasted like and
could be turned out by themselves 1 . After
a bit Ned raised a small flock of these weed-
eaters, and later on you couldn’t find a weed
on the farm.” “And are they still going
strong?” asked Bill. “No," said Steve, “not
one of ’em. Too bad it was. Ned took sick
and while ’e was in ’orspital someone was
silly enough to turn the flock into a clean
paddock of young wheat. What with Ned
being away ill and one thing and another
’is man forgot all about ’em for nearly a
fortnight, and when ’e did think of ’em ’e
found the whole mob dead in a wheat crop
six inches high. They could only eat weeds,
you see, and they was in the cleanest crop
ever grown.”
$ * * *
“Pejaycn”: There is nothing wrong with
the islands off the Queensland coast for
'possum-farming; in fact, it ought to pay
handsomely. It is computed that 120 ’possums
can be safely bred to the acre, and with
careful handling this can be increased to
500. The return per acre is calculated at
THE LOVESICK TAMER AND THE CIRCUS RIDER.
“She loves me, she loves me not.”
£2O upwards. Home of the islands could bo.
and others are; utilised for such purposes as
agriculture, sheep-farming, turtle and beclie-
de-mer fishing, gathering of sponges, troclius
shell, etc. There is a number available
under occupation license at a very low
annual rental.
* * * *
“V.11.R.” : Maori land isn’t the only place
where whitebait are a puzzle. The myriads
which invade the Speck’s rivers during Oct.-
Nov. apparently disappear entirely. The
theory that they are the young of the herring
won’t go down. It is common to find the
'bait themselves full of ova—sure proof that
they are not the young of bigger
fish. Besides, herring have dis-
appeared from Tasmanian streams,
though a few years ago they were
as plentiful as the whitebait are
now. There is no doubt that the
'bait are a distinct variety. It is a
rare sight to see the little creatures
wriggling over the perpendicular
rocks of waterfalls, often sheer
walls of 20 or 30 feet. They will
go wherever there’s a trickle of
water.
*. * *
“Runa”: Like the kookaburra,
one of Maoriland’s protected birds
is alleged to be undeserving of
safeguard. This is the beautiful
pukeko, "whose dark-blue plumage
and long scarlet legs are a feature
of Maori land swamp areas. The
charge against thy pukeko is unique,
and arises from the bird’s inability
to discriminate between wild and
cultivated country. In their native
haunts the pukekos weave rushes
or raupo, a swamp grass, together
until the tops form a firm platform,
on which a sentinel mounts to
watch while the other birds are
feeding. Lately the birds have
invaded . wheat-fields, and their
watch-towers play havoc with quan-
tities of. wheat, though the grain
as food does not interest them. Farmers who
have suffered loss through their depredations
are urging an open season for the pukeko,
but bird-lovers contend it is better to lose a
certain amount of wheat than risk extermi-
nation of the interesting clan.
“The Rumpus” : It was Saturday, March
10. and I first laid eyes on him at approxi-
mately 5 p.m. He was then leaning miracu-
lously against the air and waving a sleeve-
torn arm in the direction of a midget boy
selling the third edition of the evening
journals. Under his other arm, held tightly
to his ribs, was an untidy bundle of fresh
newspapers. On liis face was graven a
fatuous grin ; he seemed incapable of articu-
lation of any sort. Thinking the poor
fellow afflicted with tongue-trouble, I hailed
the newsboy and pointed out his customer.
“Gripes!” said the kid. “ ’E wants ernotlur,
does ’e? This*l be th’ seventh.” The
youngster sold il copy and went on. The
paper joined its fellows under the buyers
arm and up went the other limb to stay
the progress of another paper-kid. This time
the speechless one held up two fingers and
two more copies were added to his possession.
Apparently satisfied, he moved on in the
direction I was going, but, passing a news-
agency, he added to his collection. Three
more boys lie stopped and bought from,
while a few more came at my whistle. I
-now“-set myself the task of seeking an ex-
planation. While he stopped to get a better
grip of his purchases, I engineered my way
light under his nose and opened my third
edition. “What’s startling?” I asked
abstractedly. H'e fixed me with his cast-iron
grin. “Gimme paper when you finish,
he said. “But you’ve surely got enough?”
I protested. He shook his head and held
out his hand. “What.” I asked, “are you
cornering the last edition?” _ Gently lie
swayed, but never once lost his feet. 7?re-
sent’lv lie spoke. “My goo’ fellow,” he
breathed. “I may not be quite shober, but
T know what I’m doin’. To-morrow’s S,holi-
day, an’ I wanter read ’em all.” “But,” I
exclaimed, “what’s tile good of reading the
same thing over and over again?” Again
his grin held me in thrall, and for the first
time I realised it was a patriotic grin. “My
goo’ fellow,” he said, after a measured
pause, ‘you don’ sheem to undershtand. The
Australians won the Fifth Tesht an’ I
wanter read ’bout it over an’ over again
like all goo’ Australians should.”
' * * *'
“Elgin”: For 25 solid years, he told rue,
lie had swung the same beautifully polished
•’Kelly.” To me the axe looked perfectly
new, and I ventured to say so. “Well, o’
course, it’s had a few new ’cads, and a
couple of new ’andles. Must ’spect that,
matey.”
“Gumblegubbin” : The tucker bag of three
dilapidated sundowners provided a surprise
for a constable who held them up near Wya-
long (N.S.AV.). Its only contents were
three skinned snakes and a goanna, all pre-
pared ready for frying, and a bottle of
vinegar and a tin of pepper. “You can make
a meal of anything with those,” said one of
the deadbeats, pointing to the condiments.
“We always carry ’em for hard times.”
There were plenty of good fish in the near-by
streams, but the travellers had no lines.
Strange to say, travellers very seldom have,
though a fishing-line should be considered an
essential in every swag. Of hundreds of
travellers I met on a tour from Brisbane
to the western border of Queensland, only
two had fishing-lines, though they were
often without meat, and there were fish to be
caught on every stage of the way. I had
no line myself, and was trying to swap a
spare billycan for one.
(Continued on page 25.)
THE OLD HOMESTEAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They built it in the ’thirties, in the old
colonial days;
It rambled and it wandered in the old
colonial ways;
It was lowly roofed and shingled; it was
roomy-set and ingled,
Where the happy voices mingled in the deep
old-fashioned bays—
The old colonial homestead of the long-
forgotten days.
It was close above the hummocks by the
lazy surf a-croon,
Just within the big hill’s folding and beside
the long lagoon.
For a hundred years together standing
four-square to the weather,
'Mid the bracken and the heather, ’ncath the
sun in midday swoon —
The hundred-year-old homestead by the hum-
mock and the dune.
There was wealth of creepers clinging ’neath
the spreading gabled eaves;
There was ivy intertwining with Virginia’s
golden leaves;
There were precious golden hours ’midst
the riot of the flowers.
And the sunshine and the showers and the
spell the moonlight weaves,
In the hospitable homestead whereunto my
memory cleaves.
As it saw the old times passing and the old
years dead and cold,
So it watched the brave hearts going, those
dear hearts of beaten gold;
Saw the little children playing ’neatli the
dreamy shade-trees swaying;
Heard the children’s voices praying at their
mother’s knee of old—
The old colonial homestead bringing back a
tale that’s told.
N.s.w.
E. W. O’BRIEN.


Ferro dor's
Challenge
to (
RUST
CORROSIOK
ago
a
Ensures Perfect Protection
for
All Iron, Steel & Woodwork
As a weatherproof Paint, FERRODOR stands alone. It clings
tenaciously to the surface to which it is applied, and it will stand up to
the attacks of sun and rain, heat and cold, salt air and chemical
fumes, for many years without blistering or cracking.
Cases are on record of a coating of FERRODOR lasting 22 years,
but its average life is from 10 to 12 years. This means a great
saving of expenses in re-paintings.
FERRODOR PAINT is used by the following well-known firms
and Government Departments:—
N.S.W. Government Railways.
N.S.W. Public Works Department.
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Australian Glass Manufacturers Co., Ltd.
Sulphide Corporation, Ltd.
Silverton Tramway Co., Ltd.
Wallaroo-Mt. Lyell Fertilisers, Ltd.
Cresco Ltd.
Mt. Lyell Chemical Co.
Cuming, Smith & Co.
Tooth & Co., Ltd.
Taronga Park Trust.
If you are interested we will gladly send you a color card and full
information —no obligation, of course.
FERRODOR PAINT is packed in 20 colors in 7 lb.
and IJ/lb. tins and in 561 b. and 1-cict. steel drums.
It is packed in paste form for greater economy,
since you only mix what you need. It is equally
good on iron, steel and woodwork, and is ABSO-
LUTELY NON-POISONOUS.
Eight gallons of mixed FERRODOR cover
approximately lIS square yards, at a cost of less
than 2ld. per yard.
If unobtainable locally, send direct to
WILLIAM ADAMS € OOMPAN/
k I M ITED
SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, BRISBANE, MELBOURNE.
ADELAIDE, PERTH.
TOR PUfiiRVIHC,
ON K STEEL STRU(
= LS>
= L^LI
!?85» /
* /
G P I>!> & S °A r S, I
• RAN E^ I
Camp *ells fjf* <8 e^.,
G£ 0. n,, ’ / " r °-> ’ SWn Py
VA WSo at ,
°fl4C£ r>* SOttS, A/a nfy I
* * ooT* S“- *—«.
fio *^ SK . „ ' °' eb « /
tetp «*oS£si.|!' /
Ur. G7 ’- D -. °°-Op f ’ SWiley
*°°** *** ’
W. * '%ow
QVa Rtl Ey ydn °y
R on ERTs ’ TD -> Kos * r *h
4. q „ S Dea c» l
-"«oC" TSW - V" 5 * )
Ste *un d ’ lTD '- Lisnior * I
us - Sa xdy , ROS " S *” p^
r LT D ROf T & '' lnry
Eoc kdal e I


Despair
in the ranks of the rabbit
results in
Delight
w
among the men who get the
skins if the consignment is
sent to Winchcombe Carson
for sale. They are specialists
in the sale of all classes of skins.
They sell them on commission only, never buyinj
dealing. Top market prices for skins are
constant aim.
% nor
their
Consign Rabbit, Fox and all other Skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Wincbcombe House,
Bridge St., Sydney,
or 99-101 Eagle St.,
Brisbane.
kTHE GREYS
SIZE nT WO
SILK CUT VIRGINIA
DRAP
LONDON
EYS
1® for «£)(£. CIGARETTES 26® for £/<&>
They Satisfy
because they are made from 100
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys”
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a GREYS.
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights’’
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20.
PEAPES
clothe men AND their sons.
The present time offers an ex-
cellent opportunity at Peapes’ to
select all that is necessary for
men's and boys’ Winter wear.
New stocks are full and most
varied, QUALITY, VALUE and
SERVICE distinguishing an
exclusive selection of novel
ideas for coming colder weather!, ,
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
: “Up North”: Wind-blown Bramble Cay,
awash in its desolation at the northern end
of the Great Barrier Reef, is as shivery a
spot as Dante’s nethermost pit for any poor
devil doomed to camp there a night. As dark
falls a cloud seems to be moving steadily
over the Cay. It is millions of rats. A
frightful row commences, growing intensi-
fied as darkness blots out the moaning sea.
Countless sea birds, with every variety of
screech, shriek, flappings, hissings, clutter-
ings and beak snappings, fight against the
rats to preserve their eggs. In the season
the eggs lie so thickly upon the dead coral
and sand that a man cannot put a foot down
without crunching eggs. The rats came from
sinking ships. Pearl-shell divers estimate
that 300 ships, mostly unknown, have gone
down close beside the Cay.
# # * *
“Tittlebat Titmouse”: Those spiders of
“Rigalt’s” (B. 27/3/’29) that were unaffected
by lysol, ammonia and nitric acid deserve
medals, but they did not have the intelli-
TAINT.
“Wot tain’t your egg cooked long enough?”
“ ’Tain’t that ’tain’t cooked long enough. ’Tain’t cooked soon enough.”
gence of a spider in my room which developed
an appetite for flies taken off fly-paper after
I had placed a few on his web to see wliat
would happen. Although on several occasions,
after I had been attracted by what sounded
like a low whistle, it seemed to me that
the beastie was beckoning to me, I did not
realise what was the matter until one morn-
ing I found an entire fly-paper pulleyed up
into the spider’s web. I lost interest in
watching the insect feasting and growing
fat, and when what w r as left of the fly-
paper, swept absolutely clean, fell to the
floor, it was merely picked up and thrown
away. The beckoning was resumed, but
ignored, and next morning friend spider was
missing. During the day there was a queer
rustling at the window-sill, and I was moved
to investigate. The window below mine
opens on to a grocery shop on the ground
floor of our flat building; creeping through
that, the spider had got away with a roll of
fly-papers and was hauling them up as a
hint for the renewal of the feasts he had
enjoyed so much.
* * * *
“Wingella": Yes, the blacks of Australia
are a degenerate race. Why, three old abos.
who recently landed on the shores of the
Woolna. Reserve, Adelaide River, confessed
to _ feeling slightly exhausted after their
swim, which had lasted a bare 40 hours.
They left Melville Island in their dug-out,
but were capsized oil the .Vernons. They
clung to the canoe for a while, but when
they found tin; strong current was sweeping
them out to the sea, they let the canoe go,
and swam, or floated, for two nights and a
day, being finally washed up on the reserve
by a high tide.
* * # *
"Toe-Pip”; “Pudden’s” spider (B.
13/3/’29) is descended from spiders which
dwelt up our way and learnt the trick from
the carpet-snakes. Old ma curpet stands
on her tail straight on end. Her young
’uns climb up the old! girl and dispose them-
selves at intervals in a first-class imitation
of a dry shrub. As birds settle on this
inviting roost they are affectionately em-
braced by the wriggler, borne to earth and
devoured at leisure. There was a dickens
of a row when our dog chased a couple of
cats up the outfit.
* * * *
“Fingerpoint”: The largest snakes in
Australia live in Cape York Peninsula, and
I believe the smallest also. The latter board
mostly underground. The, natives dig them
from sandhills and from scrub-turkey mounds
when seeking eggs. The wrigglers arc barely
six inches long, but are a true snake. They
seem oblivious of the fact that they are
blind. Both fore and aft they are torpedo-
shaped, as a help in their progress through
loose earth. They have tiny mouths with
delicate teeth on the upper jaw. The natives
tell me they live on small underground in-
sects, particularly ants, scooping them up
with tiny forked tongues. I have seen
several, dug out of the moist leaves of a
turkey mound, that were glowing with a
purple phosphorescence.
# * # *
“Strutt”: Bananaland’s care of Binghi
receives recognition from the Victorian
police, who send to Q’land for their black
trackers. Only young, unmarried men are
allowed to go south, and presumably celi-
bacy is a condition of their employment,
which seems a rather hazardous restriction
where savages are concerned. In their native
State the police boys are sometimes allowed
to take a wife. There are 90 trackers in
the employ of the northern State.
“Bad Australian” : A good deal has been
written about white kangaroos, but I have
never seen any reference to a black one.
When Paddy Cahill was living on Oenpelli
(NT.) before he transferred the property
f 0 the Government, he caught and reared
a pair 0 f young black kangaroos, and when
the animals were well grown he crated them
up and brought them into Darwin with the
idea of shipping them south. At that time
relations were somewhat strained between
the Administrator (Gilruth) and a somewhat
COUNCIL OF WAR.
MRS TUOOETT: “That old beast been knockin’ you about again, Mrs. Biggs? Why
don’t yer put the police on to ’im?”
MRS. BIGGS: “It ain’t no good. I couldn’t pay ’is fine.”
turbulent section of the citizens. As
Paddy was known to be a staunch supporter
of Gilruth, some of these birds released his
menagerie and were busy trying to shoo it
off into the Great Dead Heart when Paddy
happened along. Giving one call, he ambled
off to the pub with the animals at his heels
like a pair of’kelpies before the anti-Gilruth-
ites had fully realised that they had been
euchred.
* * * *
“Tuppence”: Bluc-tongued lizards aren’t
great fly-eaters, though there’s a popular
superstition to that effect. The champion
fly-destroyer among saurians is the wall
gecko. This little lizard is only about three
inches long, but he has a mammoth appe-
tite. He is as much at home upside down as
in any other position, and can walk on. a
ceiling almost as nimbly as a fly. He works
mainly at night, when the flies are asleep,
and combs walls and ceiling of any room
in which he is placed.
$ Hs *
“Questo”: John Dickie, Government
prospector and discoverer of the Ebagoolah
and Alice River goldfields, was never
attacked by the blacks, even in the worst
days of the Cape York Peninsula. He was
a debil-debil, and taboo with all the abos.
One night they were going to spear him, and
silently approaching his camp they found
him sleeping beside his equipment inside
a ring of light. Dickie had been suspicious
of the blacks’ movements, and so had made
a circle of damp phosphorus around him.
Seeing it for the first time in their lives
the blacks fled. The news soon spread to
other tribes, and wherever Dickie went,
whether by day or night, the blacks gave him
a wide berth.
* * * *
“Mulyan”: Just a hundred years ago
Captain Sturt went down the Murray in his
little boat, and many of the snags he en-
countered on the long trickle are there yet.
But they have got plenty of company since
that first voyage, and many of them have
taken the names of the boats and barges
they wrecked. No other river in Australia
has known half as many shipping disasters,
or made so much shipping history, as the
Murray-Darling. To tot up the number of
wrecks, founderings, burnt ships and barges
and trading boats would tax any memory,
Some of the ancient skippers still live along
the river, and the stream’s disaster-history
provides them with endless food for talk.
Some are prepared to bet that it can beat
the Mississippi. Next to the Murray in this
respect is the Manning, whose bar has
accounted for a fleet of good ships. Many of
them were built by the early settlers, at
Tinonee and Pelican, where Alex. Newton
and others had busy and prosperous ship-
building yards.
* * * *
“0. Coral”: Tourists visiting Thursday
Island now have an opportunity of seeing
a collection of carpet-snakes right on the
wharf as the steamer berths, and the spec-
tacle of a 12-footer hanging from an over-
head beam occasionally creates alarm. <The
reptiles have been placed there by the wharf
authorities, not with the object of displaying
North Queensland natural products, but to
exterminate rats. The snakes have proved
their usefulness in that respect, and cargo-
handlers in the sheds have been instructed
to take special care lest an unwieldy case
should crush any of the rat-collectors. Pos-
sibly the snakes have been instructed not
to bite the wliarfies and the passengers, but
that isn’t on record.
% * * *
‘‘Sea Nomad”: It was through a Rossel
Island native called Ge-ke that John Mac-
donald, recently retired Master of Works
at Port Moresby, learnt the Rossel Island
dialect, which accomplishment eventually led
to the taming of those turbulent savages.
Ge-ke, lying aboard the Merrie England
with a bullet in his leg, looked to Macdonald
as his one friend in a world peopled by
demons, white, black and brown. Each time
the cook passed the wounded savage’s bunk,
lie would scowl fearfully at the patient and
sharpen his knife noisily. The terrified Ge-ke
would scream for Macdonald. The native
crew, who would dearly have loved to cut
the alien’s throat, scowled in through the
porthole at him on every possible occasion.
Finally, Macdonald had practically to live
beside the wounded man. Sir William
Macgregor, who was on board, appeared to
notice nothing, but the canny old Scot was
calculating all the time on this chance that
young Macdonald would learn Ge-ke’s diffi-
cult lingo, and deliberating as to how he
would use his subordinate’s knowledge later.
GETTIN’ THINGS TOGETHER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When fellers reach a certain age they starts
to look around,
An’ try to pick a decent gal—at least, that’s
wot I’ve found —
An' when you see them shoulders bent an’
goin’ hell-fer-leather,
You know a nest is in their minds —they’re
gettin’ things together.
I reckon that I’ve found the one; she seems
to think I’ll do,
An’ we’ll be goin’ double-hitched within a
month or two.
That’s when I get the nest well lined. An’
so last Wensdee week
I went to Hogan’s clearin’ sale —old Hogan’s
down the creek.
I bought a washstand an’ a tub, an’ lots
o’ china ware—
You should have heard the wimmen fork,
you should have seen ’em stare—
A sofa an’ a double bed an’ quilts to go with
that,
An’ barf a dozen fowls an’ ducks. They
muster smelt a rat.
The auctioneer lie says to me, “Now look
at this here pram.”
I bought the thing for five and six, an’ didn’t
give a damn.
I gotter lot o’ barrack then, but I have no
regret.
They would have known without the pram
which way the wind was set.
No matter how the wimmen yap, you’ve
gotter look ahead,
An’ Liz an’ me don’t care a straw wot any
gossip said.
So I am usin’ sweat an’ brawn an’ strainin’
at me tether,
An’ all I need’s a flamin’ house to ’ave
enough together.
VICTOKIA.
P. T. F.


OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart tor the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Headers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
By builder, Sydney, partner with f 1200 to
invest. Must be capable of taking charge
of building operations.—9sB7.
By man (24), 34 years’ far-western
N.S.W. experience, book-keeping and general
station work, position in N.S.W. —9543.
Elderly couple, with adopted child (5),
will provide refined lady, widow preferred,
fond of country life, witn good home
(N.S.W.) in return for light domestic duties
and companionship.—9ssB.
By young woman, cheerful, healthy, adapt-
able, position in Islands as secretary or com-
panion. Can sew, type, drive car; trained
hairdresser; knowledge; of business routine.
—9552.
Lady, student of philosophy, desires to
meet friend, Brisbane, likewise interested. —
9534.
By orchardist owning 12-acre citrus- and
apple-orchard, with room for expansion,
within 100 miles Sydney, working partner,
share-farming basis.—9sl9.
Young woman, Melbourne, wants spare
time typing. First-class w0rk.—9520.
By station overseer (32), single, West
Q'land experience, served engineering
apprenticeship, position anywhere. Available
middle April. Refs. —9525.
By young man, N.S.W., work as cook,
experienced. Go anywhere.—9s2o.
Bv married man, young wife and child,
recent arrival from oversea, employment on
N.S.W. farm.—9sl3.
Queensland man invites correspondence
from Bulletin readers. —9483.
By experienced woman-cook, position on
station in Edcn-Monaro (N.S.W.). —9494.
Words of poems, “The Bush Christening ”
“Australia’s on the Wallaby” and “A Bush-
man’s Farewell to Queensland.” —9238.
To buy paintings of Sydney by Conrad
M ar ten 5. —9551.
To buy copy of “The Fortunes of Richard
Maliony,” by Henry Handel Richardson.—
9477.
To buy, second-hand, snooker, kelly pool or
American pool set, and full-size billiard-
cloth’—94Bo.
Information Sought.
(1) How can I take hair off cow-hide?
(2) How can I keep the hide from going
hard?-- 9320.
(1) Make up a bath consisting of lib.
lime to lOgal. water, and soak the hide for
two or three days. Both the hair and the
flesh can then be scraped off. (2) Stretch the
hide out until almost dry, and then work oil
or fat well into it on both sides. This
will make what is termed “green-hide,”
suitable for harness repairs or belt laces.
(1) XVhat prospects arc there for the
admission of unclassified and classified
teachers in Queensland to the N.S.W. Edu-
cation Department? (2) What salaries are
paid to Class 111 teachers? (3) What
remuneration is give' whilst in training? —
9451.
(1) Vacancies exist in the N.S.W. Edu-
cation Dept, for trained teachers or teachers
who have served for a period of at least six
years, in a Government school. (2) The
Queensland Class 111 certificate does not
entitle the holder to a certificate in N.S.W.,
though credit would be given in certain
subjects. The salary payable to an unclassi-
fied teacher in charge, adult male, would be
£2SO 17s. 4d.. and £228 17s. 4d. per annum
to -an assistant; (3) £5O is paid to students
undergoing the short course of training.
(1) Why is it the custom now to precede
such words as “ hotel ” and “historical ” and
other words commencing with *7t” by “an”?
(2) What is the plural of “ge ius”? When
I studied English, “ genii ” was always used.
—9541.
(1) It isn’t. The use of “an” in place
of ‘fa” is contiued to words commencing
with a vowel sound. In the past the “h”
in such words as “historical.” “hotel” and
“humble” was regarded as silent, and “an”
was a permissible precedent, but nowadays
“hour” is about the only word in common
usage in which the aspirate may be dis-
regarded. (2) Geniuses. “Genii” is now used
only as the plural of “genie”—the spirit-
slaves of the “Arabian Nights.”
(1) What and where is the longest river
in the world and what is its length? (2)
What is the widest river in the world. —
9501.
(1) The Mississippi (U.K.A.). if the Mis-
souri be counted as part of the waterway;
length 4221 miles. The Mississippi proper
has a length of 2553 miles. The Nile
(Africa) and the Amazon (S. America)
come next, each with a length of about 4000
miles. (2) The Amazon, which has a normal
width of from four to six miles for a con-
siderable length of its course, is usually
regarded as the world’s widest river, but in
flood times various great rivers, notably the
Mississippi, spread over as much as 100 miles
of country.
What is the average return per acre of
wheat in the Australian States, and in the
chief wheat-growing countries of the world.
—9545.
For the season 1920-27: N.5.4V., 14.13;
Vic.. 16.08; Q’land, 6.(35; S.A., 12.84; W.A..
11.68: Tas., 23.15. For 1926. U.S.A., 14.72:
Soviet Republics, 11.73; Canada, 18.10;
India, 10.66; France, 17.87; Argentine, 12.09.
(1) How can I obtain an oyster lease in
N.S.W. (near Sydney), and what arc the
conditions and cost of such a lease? (2)
What capital would be required to cultivate
a lease that icould support a man and small
family? (3) Is the market a steady one, and
arc yrives uniformly yoodf (.4) Literature
upon the subject? —s)s7B.
(1) Applications for oyster leases must
be lodged at N.S.W. Fisheries Department
on tlm form prescribed, obtainable at that
office or from any Inspector of Fisheries.
Oyster leases are granted at annual rentals
ranging upwards from ss. per 100 lineal
yards for areas with a frontage to high-water
mark, and from ss. per acre for areas situ-
ated below high-water mark, according to the
quality of the ground. In addition to one
year's rental the following fees are payable
before the issue of a lease: Advertising fee
7s. (>d., license fee 55., stamp duty 2s. (id.
(2) Depends on the methods of cultivation
adopted. (3) There is a steady demand
• throughout the year, and the price is well
maintained at from £3 to £4 and upwards
per three-bushel bag, according to quality. It
may occasionally happen, however, that a
lessee is unable to dispose of oysters at a
satisfactory price immediately they are
mature. (4) “Oyster Culture on the
George’s Iliver,” by T. C. Rougliley, which
describes most of the methods- of- oyster
culture used in N.S.W., may be obtained
from the Technological Museum, Sydney, at
a cost of 2s. (id.
Can you give me a suitable aboriginal name
for a stone house on a hill, overlooking a
village—-somewhat windy, with open views?
—9579.
Attunga (a high place), Bibbenluke (big
look-out), Booligal (a windy place), Barra-
barroo (very large stones), Wylandra (heap
of stones), Yallaroi (stony), lllalangi
(camp on a hill), Wallaroy (mountain-top).
Who composed the last English cricket
team in Australia (1924-25), und to what
county did each individual belong? —9s6s.
A. E. R. Gilligan (capt.) and M. W.
Tate (Sussex) ; J. L. Bryan, A. P. F. Chap-
man, F. E. Woolley and A. P. Freeman
(Kent) ; .T. B. Hobbs, A. Sandham and H.
Strudwick (Surrey); H. Howell (War-
wick) ; J. W. H. T. Douglas (Essex) ; R.
Tyldesley (Lancs.) ; W. WliysaJl (Notts.) ;
E. Hendr.-n and J. W. Hearne (Middlesex) ;
H. Sutcliffe, R. Kilner and manager F. C.
Toone (Yorks).
What examination icould a boy, aged 15,
have to pass to enter N.S.W. Government
Railways as a junior porter' or shop boy?
What wages arc paid and where shoula
application be made? —9406.
The education test consists of five sums in
compound addition, subtraction, multiplica-
tion and division, and a dictation test for
writing and spelling. The rate of pay for a
junior porter 15 years of age is 4s. 4d. per
day, and for a shop boy of that age 4s. 9d.
per day. Application should be made to the
Secretary, Railway and Tramway Staff
Board, Central Station, Sydney.
Of insurance policies, which is preferable,
life or endowment, and why f—9so4.
Depends on the insurer’s circumstances.
A young man married or likely to be married
and with little or no means of his own ought
to get the greatest possible cover for the
money he can afford to spend. The thing
he has to provide against for the next few
years is premature death, and that calls for
whole-life insurance, because he can get
mere of it for a given sum. Afterwards he
has to consider his own and his wife’s declin-
ing years; and then some endowment policies
may be appropriate. Later again, if he has
put himself into a comfortable position, he
may find it prudent to take another whole-
life policy, this time to prevent disturbance
of his estate in order to pay probate duties.
Generally speaking, for the normal healthy
young man the whole-life policy is the right
one; if he is sub-normal, then he may take
an endowment policy as the next-best thing
—he may be able to get one of them though
refused a whole-life cover.
Can a copyright be taken out for an un-
published novel before it is completed? —
9459.
An unpublished novel may be registered
under the Copyright Act 1912, but a com-
plete copy of the work must be filed with
the application.
(1) What qualifications arc necessary to
enter the Q’land Forestry Service as a cadet
forester? (2) What is the age limit? and
(3) salary paid? —934o.
(1) Matriculation in science, agricultural
science or engineering at an approved uni-
versity. (2) Ordinarily selection is made
from applicants under the age of 20. (3)
£l3O p.a. during the first six months whilst
the cadet is undergoing a course of training.
At the end of that period, if satisfactory,
£l6O p.a. The probationary period may be*
extended, and increment beyond £l3O p.a.
may be held over, pending exam, results.
After 11 year service, £lBO p.a.; after 24,
£2lO p.a.; after 34, £230 p.a.; after 41,
£250 p.a.; after s|, £275 p.a.; after 61,
£3OO p.a.; after 74, £320 p.a.; thence to
classification £360-£475 p.a., subject to pass-
ing prescribed exam.
Can you give me recipes for making (1)
blackberry and (2) parsnip wines? —9388.
(1) Gather fruit in dry weather, put into
wooden or enamel vessel, and bruise well
with a masher. Cover with boiling water.
Place a muslin cloth over the tub, and set
aside for two weeks. Strain off the liquor
and measure it. For every gallon allow 31b.
sugar, and mix well together in a tub or cask
with the bung out. Let it work for 10 days,
and add a little water if evaporation has
bqeii heavy. When it has done fermenting,
pfit loz. isinglass and 41b. raisins to about
9 gallons of the mixture, stir all together,
and leave for six months before bottling. (2)
Wash and scrape the parsnips, clean, cut
each into four strips, placb in a pot and
cover with cold water. Boil until soft, then
transfer them with the water in which they
have boiled to a tub or cask. Cover well
with boiling water, and proceed as in the
above recipe, but use one-third less sugar.
(1) When was the standard-time system
introduced in Australia? (2) Whut was
the difference in time between the six capital
cities prior to its introduction? (3) What
is the difference now? —9510.
(1) Standard time became operative
throughout the Commonwealth on Feb.
I, 1895. (2) Sydney, noon: Melbourne,
11. a.m.; Adelaide, 11.10 a.m.; Brisbane,
12.7 p.m.; Perth, 9.39 a.m.: Hobart, 11.-i5
a.m. (3) Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and
Hobart are on the same time, and when it is
noon at those cities, it is 11.30 a.m. at
Adelaide (this half-hour was a matter of
compromise—originally Adelaide was a full
hour behind) and 10 a.m. at Perth.
(1) What is the cause and remedy of
smeared and black specks on mirrors? (2)
How can 1 clean a varnished tabic which,
when touched, smudges? —942l.
(1) The backing is perishing through the
action of heat or damp. There is no satis-
factory amateur treatment. (2) Wash it
with warm soap and water, and when dry
apply a coat of hard varnish.
(1) What opportunities arc there for a
youth with a leaning towards map-drawing ?
(2) What training is necessary to enter the
profession, and what, subjects should he con-
centrate upon? (3) Who arc the principal
employers of map-draughtsmen? (4) .ire
there any textbooks on the subject? —94sB.
(1) Rather better than in the average
of skilled occupations. (2) The only prac-
ticable sort of training is to serve as a
cadet to a Government department employ-
ing geographical or survey draughtsmen, or
as apprentice to one of the private map-
publishing firms.' (3) Government depart-
ments. (4) None on mapping, but plenty
on mathematics and surveying, a knowledge
of which is very helpful.
flow can one enter the Chinese Customs
Service ? —9457.
It will be necessary to pass a competitive
examination before entry can be gained.
Communicate with the Inspector-General,
Chinese Maritime Customs, Shanghai, for
full details.
/ have the gift of being able to remove
aches and pains of all sorts by gentle mas-
sage. Could 1 make a living at it? —9397.
Probably your cures are due to auto-
suggestion, but when you remove pain in
that way you don’t remove the cause, and
you may be the means of preventing the
sufferer seeking proper medical attention.
You can “make a living’’ at any sort of
quackery if you have no conscience and
enough money to advertise yourself exten-
sively.
(1) I wish to take a course in psychology
at Sydney Uni. In what subjects must, 1
matriculate? (2) Can I attend evening
classes without matriculating? —92B4.
(1) Anyone may take the course on pay-
ment of £3/3/- per term. You need not
matriculate. (2) The hours of lectures are:
7 p.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and 5
p.m. on Wednesdays. The course began on
March 18.
What advantage is gained by connecting
the speaker to a wireless receiver through
a filter choke? What is the correct value for
this choke, and how is it conn ected up? —
9481.
The advantages are that no D.C. flows
through the speaker windings, thereby
eliminating all risk of injury to the speaker.
There is less chance of distortion due to
heavy current saturating the speaker core,
and the speaker leads may be connected
either way round to the filter. The value
of this choke is 25 or 30 lienrys, and it
must carry a maximum current of 30
in. amps, with safety. To connect up. unhook
the two leads at the speaker terminals and
connect same to the two choke terminals.
Join one terminal of the choke to one of the
speaker terminals and join the other choke
terminal to one side or a 2MF fixed con-
denser ; the other side being connected to
the remaining speaker terminal.
(1) What is the second-class fare to
Canada, and by what line should I travel?
(2) When do they start preparing the ground
for wheat, and when do they harvest in
Canada? (3) What are the prospects of
work for a lad of 21 with wheat-growing
experience in Australia? (4) What is the
best time to g0? —9443.
(1) Fifty pounds ten shillings; Canadian-
Australasian Royal Mail Line. (2) The
ground is prepared about the middle of
March. Harvest begins in August. (3) There
is a brisk demand for farm help from March
1 to November 30, and in many cases good
men are employed by the year. (4) Febru-
ary and March.
(1) What are the main features of the
Y.N. H'. Small Debts Recovery Act, 1912?
(2) If a creditor secures judgment by de-
fault, can he take out papers for oral
examination against a debtor who fails to
pay, and, if he has this privilege, where must
he apply for such papers? —9444.
(1) jurisdiction covers any action for the
recovery of any debt up to bur. not exceed-
ing £5O, whether on balance of account <>r
after admitted set-off or otherwise. (2) If
a judgment lias been obtained and is unsatis-
fied the Court may grant an order that the
judgment debtor be orally examined as to
whether any and what debts are owing to
him. If it be found that debts are due to
him the Court may make a garnishee order
on the persons by whom such debts are
owing. The local Clerk of Petty Sessions
at the courthouse will give information as
to procedure.
(1) How can / clarify home-brewed ale?
(2) How did lipping (N.8.W.) come by its
name? Was it in connection with Upping,
Essex {Eng.)? —93s6.
(1) It is important to use good water,
clear and free from impurities, and to avoid
over-cooking or stewing the ingredients. It
can be cleared by whisking the whites of
three or four eggs in one gallon of the liquor
and returning this to the main quantity, stir-
ring well. Let stand several days before
bottling. If carefully made, this process is
not necessary. (2) The Royal Australian
Historical Society says: “Yes, indirectly.
The name was first given by early settlers
to that portion of the Glebe, Sydney, where
Epping Racecourse now is, and from there
was carried on to the northern suburb of
Epping."
Does Anybody Know ?
llow to extract oil from chilli-seed?—
05 oS
Ilow to make Limerick cheese? —027&.
How 10 dissolve rubber into tar? —Joio.
Brief Answers.
C.8.H.: A few exercises before break fa >t
will not ward oil fatness in middle age. lhe walking
you do in your daily occupation combined x'ith
vigorous exercise every week-end will keep you tit.
If you get fat in spite of that, you belong to the
fat sort and nothing you do will alter it....AAV.:
F. Hagen, 63 Hunter-street; and J. H. Smyth, Ltd.,
121 a Castlereagli-street—both of Sydney... .C.H.:
Write to Photomaton, Ltd., care Robertson, Crane
and Gibbons, 117 l’itt-street, Sydney J-S.: The
“Shepherd Kings of Canterbury” stories, by C. A.
Jeffries, that appeared in The Bulletin about 20
years ago, have never been collected in book form.
. ...J.W.D.: “The Australian and N.Z. Writers’ and
Artists’ Year Book, 1929 (2s. 6d.), gives a list of
about 120 journals accepting photographs. The
payment usually ranges from ss. to 10s. 6d. per
print CALL.: (1) Curtis Brown, Ltd., 5-6
Henrietta-street, Covent Garden, London. They have
a branch office at Knickerbocker Theatre Building,
116 West 39th-street, New York. (2) We cannot
undertake to do it; try A. G. Stephens, Box 711 G,
G. Sydney... .A. G.: The following, available at
the Public Library, Bent and Macquarie streets,
Sydney, might’help you: “Commercial Fruit and
Vegetable Products,” by W. V. Cruess ; “Non Intoxi-
cants,’’ by C. A. Nowark; “Fruit Juices” (Ontario
Dept, of Agriculture Bulletin No. 200) ; “Fruit
Beverage Investigations,” and “Fruit Juice Concen-
trates’’ (Uni. of California Press) ; Chemistry, Feb.
1916; American Fruitgrowers’ Magazine, Sept.,
1923, and Jan., 1925; and California Fruit News,
October 31, 1925 E.M.W. : The Play lovers’ Club
(Mclb.) meets on the second Tuesday in each month
at the Allied Societies’ Trust Hull, 53 Collins-place.
Subscription, ss. per annum; sec., Paul Pincus, 55
Collins-street C.L.J.: (1) We arrange for the
illustrations. (2) In most eases, no. They are
mainly sales agents and have no power to purchase
MSS. All they can do is to report on a MS. and
send it to London for final decision. (3) Will
answer later.. ..A.C.: No. For our opinion of the
treatment see B. 14/7/’27. You would do better by
inquiring at the .Alfred or Adelaide Hospital....
V.L.: The term “Bindii” is applied to so many
types of burr weeds that without definite informa-
tion that would enable its identity to be recognised,
we cannot suggest any method of eradication other
than turning it under during dry weather and when
the plant is in its immature stages K.F.: We
can’t recommend money-lenders J.E.L.: W’rite to
either Esther Kahn or Murray Gibbes, both care of
Paling and Co., 338 George-street, Sydney. . . .S.E.D.:
The will cannot be upset but if all the children are
prepared to forfeit their rights under it a solicitor
could draft an agreement to meet their wishes....
M.R.M.: Can’t diagnose cause of deaths from the
information given. Consult the local stock inspector.
J.P.D.: Send a sample to Paton, Burns and Co.,
52 King-street, Sydney, who will advise you as to
markets and prices F.M.D.: Get in touch with
the Society of Arts and Crafts of N.S.W., 8 Rowe-
street; and the Women’s Handicrafts Association
of N.S.W., 69a Market-street —both of Sydney; they
sell such work for members if up to the standard
required. Firms such as David Jones and Horderns
buy such work, but on wholesale lines. The
demand at present is only moderate. .. .A. 8.: There
are no private beds in Sydney Hospital... .W.W.;
See “Scientific' American Cyclopedia of Formulae,”
p. 786, which can be consulted at the Public Library
of N.SAV P.J.8.: Write direct to the Com-
missioner of Police, Department of Justice, Pretoria,
S. Africa. Recruits on enrolment are paid £l2O
p.a. and given tree quarters,. but without allowance,
whilst undergoing training at a police depot. A
second-class constable (rank given after training is
completed) is paid from £l4O to £2lO p.a
F.R.: (1) Making inquiries. (2) N.S.W. law does
not allow us to answer questions concerning sweeps,
etc., conducted outside the State. (3) Will answer
later. .. .X. 0.: (1) Accounts reviewed “Wild Cat”
column, June 13, 1928. Progress is slow; but it
is definite. (2) Better communicate with secretary,
Sydney, who may find a buyer... .P.L.G.: It isn’t so.
On the contrary, land values in several Melbourne
suburbs have shrunk steadily during the last year
or two. ...F.M.: (l) A person in receipt of the old-
age pension must earn not more than 12s. 6d. per
week to entitle him to the full pension rate. If he
is married and bis wife is also an old-age pensioner
and there is no other source of income, he
is allowed to earn up to 255. per week without
diminution of pension. (2) A deduction is made
from the annual pension rate of £1 for every £lO
above £5O of savings or other capital. ... M.C.W.:
Submit the questions to the Defence Department,
Melbourne.... C.J.: You would be eligible to join
the R.A.N., provided you passed the educational and
physical tests. You would commence as an ordinary
seaman, would receive £ 1 15s. per week, with Bs.
9d. deferred pay per week in addition. Recruits are
required to sign on for a period of 12 years from
date of entry. Full particulars can be obtained
from the District Naval Officer, Naval Staff Office,
Edward-street, Brisbane... .A.E.F.: See the “Cornish
Handbook,” by John Kinsman, published by E. J.
Burrow and Co., Ltd., London. J. Jenkins, hon. sec.
Cornwall and Devon Assoc, of N.S.W., Beaumont-
street, Rose Bay, Sydney, will also be able to help
y0u....N.R.C.: Swain and Co., Ltd., 123 Pitt-
street, Sydney... .L.G.: Mortons, Ltd., 182 Chalmers-
street; and Marchant and Co., Ltd., 321 Pitt-street
—both of Sydney... .A.S.: Read description of the
process given in Tressler’s “Marine Products of Com-
merce.” which should be obtainable from the Queens-
land Public Library... .A.R.: Thoroughly clean the
iron and apply a coat of galvanised-iron primer,
followed by a coat of the required shade of truetural
and roof paint V.E.8.: You are the right weight
for your height, so why worry? Boxing and rowing
arc the best means of doing what you require, but
seeing you have plenty of exercise at the present
time are not likely to make much difference in
your case. . . .K.8.F.: It is dangerous to use caustics
on the face or surrounding parts. Consult a skin
specialist. Your trouble can be fixed up very
easily.... L.0.H.: Write to Dr. Martin, Psychology
Department, University of Sydney... .A.A.: (1) You
may be able to secure an opening by making appli-
cation to the Secretary, Fruitgrowers, Ltd., Gympie,
Queensland. (2) Ask the Department of Agriculture,
Brisbane, for publication dealing with peanut culti-
vation. .. .H.F.: Cannot advise on data furnished.
Discuss the matter with the boy’s head teacher
D.McS.; (1) There is no authoritative recognised
meaning of the female name “Lorna.” (2) Deriva-
tion unknown. (3) “Orion” is pronounced “O’Ryon.”
(4) “Ceckerneer,” if there is such a word, is pro-
nounced as spelt, with equal accent on each syllable.
.... (Many others mailed.)


2 Good Symbols
N
/
\ '
/
X
C
asm
X
X
h
a
0
A
%
P
Q
Triangle
for
Safety
DUNLOP
Just as the “Red Triangle”
is a sign of the stopping
power of 4 wheel brakes,
so does Dunlop on a tyre
signify the quality that
ensures more miles and
better motoring.
*• ■* *•
5000 GARAGES STOCK DUNLOP


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney I
liberal advances if
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
w
Why be satisfied with less?
SHARE in the benefits that P. & C. Assurance brings ! When times
are hazardous the company keeps policies in force ; a definite
sum is set aside each year for loan purposes. P. &C. policies
are planned to meet the special needs of the man on the land—these
are the things that have resulted from the co-operative basis of the
P. &C. The further fact that the company is linked with the most
influential co-operative bodies in the Commonwealth is yet another
factor in the stability of the company. When such advantages can
be obtained at no extra cost, why be satisfied with less ?
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director: H. Fell
PRODUCERS & CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD^
114 -HO CASTLE REACH ST. SYDNEY g==
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed (or the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Add)ess:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
THE MAM
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
C[?]PARK & CASNEREAGH STS SYDNEY
PRIZES FOR FARM HINTS.
Thousands of men fail on the land be-
cause they don’t know how to succeed;
many thousands more succeed less than
they should because they lack proper
guidance.
“The Bulletin” wants to encourage
farmers and scientists who know to help
those who don’t know.
With that object it offers two prizes of
£2O and £lO for the most useful contri-
butions to the “Land” pages during the
six months ending June 30 next.
All contributions submitted, whether
published or not, will be considered in
awarding points, and the prizes will go
to the winners of most points.
Points will be awarded for interest and
practical usefulness.
The prizes are additional to the usual
payment for published contributions.
HOW TO GROW WHEAT IN
WESTRALIA.
A. W. Parkinson, who, at the request of
The Bulletin, outlines below the methods
lie uses in wheat cultivation, is a farmer at
Gnowangerup (W.A.), and was winner of
the State’s wheat-growing championship,
3027-28 (424 bushels) and 3928-29 (41
bushels). lie writes: —
I am a great believer in a three years’ rotation—
fallow, sow and harvest wheat, burn the stubble, sow
oats, and then leave in pasture for two years. I
start fallowing early in July with a mouldboard
plough, to a depth of 3)in. to 4in. and disc-plough
in September to full depth of previous ploughing.
This is followed with harrows (springtine cultivator)
in October and again early in November. No more
is done until March, unless it rains between times,
and then 1 cultivate again to a depth of 2in.
The spring-tooth is put over in March and April,
2in. depth, and in May I cultivate lightly, lRn., and
follow immediately with the drift, sowing at the
rate of 451 b. of graded seed wheat to the acre,
pickled with formalin the night previous. Super,
is applied at the rate of lewt. to the acre.
I am most particular not to touch the land when
the conditions are not favorable. The wheats I
find most suitable are Yandilla King and Nabawa.
The average rainfall for these parts is 18in.
SEED GRADING.
“Yeoman”: One of the most important
considerations in agricultural economy is the
use of the best seed. The true cost of
wheat-growing, including overhead charges,
is about £4 10s. per acre. The cost of seed
averages from ss. to ss. 63. per acre. While
the difference in cost between poor and good
seed does not vary more than from Is. to
2s. od. per acre, the use of graded seed
improves the yield several bushels per acre,
and the monetary return to the extent of
10s. to 30s. per acre. Graded seed will
invariably assure a return of two to three
bushels per acre more than would be pro-
duced by a crop from the same seed not
graded. The cost of grading is negligible.
The operation removes or, more correctly, re-
covers cracked and shrivelled grains that are
either lost when sown or produce weak plants
that do not mature properly but which take
the place that should be occupied by nor-
mally vigorous plants. The inferior grain
recovered by the grader is converted to profit
as poultry- and pig-feed.
A system I have found most satisfactory
is the' purchase of a few bags of the best
selected seed procurable from one of the
Government experimental farms every two
or three years. This yields more than suf-
ficient for my own seed requirements for the
following season, and I grade the surplus
and sell it to neighbors at a good premium.
DO WE SOW RIGHT?
“Penfield”: In the old days our grand-
fathers went out with seed-box slung around
their necks and sowed the seed-wheat broad-
cast. Our fathers made a small improve-
ment on that; they had a broadcasting
machine mounted on a dray, the lighter the
better, and did their “seeding” that way.
Then came the superphosphates and the seed-
drill —a machine which dribbled seed and
grains of super, side by side in rows into the
estivated soil. That plan still prevails.
But some wonder whether the old plan
didn’t have its advantages. One such is
the experimentalist at the llorwood-Bag-
shaw implement factory in Adelaide. As
a rule the seed is drilled in rows Tin. apart.
He found few of the seeds throwing out
roots much beyond liu. on either side, though
in plenty of cases the growth was more
along the course of the drill —that is to say,
within the influence of the fertiliser. As
the results of those experiments and obser-
vations he concluded that Gin. or there-
abouts between the drills is to a great extent
wasted, being occupied mainly by weeds,
which presently check growth in the wheat-
rows. From this he concluded further that
the ideal drill-cultivator is one which will
distribute the grain evenly over the whole
area.
There is no great difficulty in accomplish-
ing this; it can be done by employing hollow
tines fed from the seed- and super.-boxes
and leading down under an old-fashioned
scarifier shot* or share, the grains scattering
as they strike the soil. The point that has
to be determined seems to be whether the
grains of super, can be brought into close
enough proximity to the grains of wheat; it
seems possible that sojne small proportion
of the super, may be lost, more or less, not
being, near enough to a seed to help it. If,
however, even a G p.c. increase in the crop
can be achieved it will be well worth while;
and a great deal more* than that is aimed at
and has actually been realised in experi-
mental plots.
BAMBOO ON THE FARM.
“W.M.F.”: Many a farm is going short or
desirable improvements because of the diffi-
culty of obtaining the necessary timber.
Where trees are hard to get going and
there is a sufficiency of water, as near
swamps, along bore drains and around
lagoons, it is well worth while to stick in
some roots of the giant bamboo. It is a
slow starter, but once established it is a
stayer and increases by compound progres-
sion. Nothing is handier for temporary
sliprails, sheep-pens or floodrails. Long and
light, and, while fresh, remarkably strong,
they can be used for years and moved about
wherever required*, with the minimum of
effort, Next to wire-netting, they are the
quickest and most effective material for
corailing stock, and, unlike wire-netting, they
don’t get tangled.
THE WAR OF THE CLOVERS.
“Curlew”: “Johnny” (B. 13/3/’29) finds
fault with my estimate of clustered clover.
I know the Vic. Government Botanist has
said it is of “slight fodder value” ; but the
same thing has been said of other valuable
plants before their value was practically
established. For instance, Mr. Audas, of
the Victorian Botanist’s office, says that
Trifolium striatum (knotted clover) is “an
annual of slight value on poor, dry or sandy
soils, but not a good clover.” Yet only this
season, in a meadow competition carried out
by a Gippsland agricultural society, a par-
ticularly striking entry was that of R. Good.
The paddock was sowm down to subter-
ranean, white and cowgrass clovers, in
addition to Trifolium striatum and ryegrass.
But striatum has about taken possession,
subterranean, white and cowgrass clovers
and (to a lesser extent) ryegrass having
almost disappeared. The meadow was a
dense mat over a foot in depth. If a clover is
robust enough to choke subterranean it must
at least be conceded to be a strong grower
and worthy of an extended trial.
As to clustered clover, my remarks were
founded on practical experience. I found
it in every wa,v excellent and satisfactory.
PALING FENCES AS STOCK
SHELTERS.
“Wrecksby” : There are many farms where
there is no shelter for stock from cold winter
winds, and it is a good time to provide some
before the winds make their appearance.
One of the best ways in open grazing
paddocks, and especially on exposed high
land where stock camp, is to erect lengths
of paling fences. In localities where pre-
vailing winter winds are from the one direc-
tion the protection of from 20 to GO feet
of fencing with Bft. palings will be greatly
appreciated by all kinds of stock. But in
most places cold winds are likely to come
from any quarter, so it will be best to erect
two lines of fencing in the form of a right-
angled cross.
A dairy herd especially will benefit from
this form of protection, which will ensure
a much better milk supply over the winter
months than if no shelter were provided.
A USEFUL WINTER GRASS.
“Wrecksby” * Phalaris hulbosa is one of
the best winter grasses that have been intro-
duced to this country. It is remarkable for
the bulk of feed it will supply and its ability
to withstand the heaviest frosts. It is suited
to cold aud tableland districts, and will not
thrive so well where the winter conditions
are not severe.
The seed should be sown on prepared land
at the rate of 81b. to the acre as early as
possible in the autumn, to allow the grass
to become established before the winter. It
is a verv rapid grower, but should be fed oft
lightly the first. year, after which it will
attain a height of 6 feet' and cut at an
average of 8 tons of hay to the acre.
It should be given a paddock to itselr.
Its habit of growth is similar to that ot
couch grass. It is harder to get rid of if
it is allowed to spread to cultivation pad-
docks, but if it is not allowed to run to
seed it is easily kept within bounds.
If sown with other seeds, particularly
clovers. Phalaris will take charge of the
paddock in which it is sown, and before the
other grasses can become properly established
it will wipe them out.
A BUTTER FAT-BUTTER TABLE.
By use of the table given below dairy-
farmers who submit their cows for testing
will be enabled to convert the weight of
butter-fat shown on the test sheets into its
approximate equivalent in butter. A stan-
dard of 831 b. butter-fat to 1001 b. commercial
butter was adopted in its compilation
Fat. Butter. I Pat- Butter,
lb. lb. lb. lb.
1 1.20 60 72.28
2 2.41 70 84.33
3 3.61 80 96.38
4 4 si 90 108.43
5 6.02 100 120.48
6 7.22 200 240.96
7 8.43 300 361.44
8 9.63 400 481.92
y 10 84 000 602.41
10 12.04 600 722.89
20 24.09 700 843.37
30 36.14 800 963.85
40 48.19 900 > 1,084.33
60 60.24 t 1000 1,204.82
As an example, let it be supposed that
2671 b. of fat is to be converted: —
200 lb. equals 240.90 lb. butter
60 lb. equals 72.28 lb. butter
7 lb. equals 8.43 lb. butter
267 lb. 321.67 lb.
or to the nearest whole number, 3221 b.
DISPOSAL OF CARCASES.
“Yeoman”: The disposal of the carcase of
a horse or cow is a matter of difficulty on
a farm if there is no firewood available for
cremation or time to dig a grave. An easy
way out is to well cover the carcase, even
to 'the hoofs, with about two dray loads of
fresh stable manure. The ammonia in the
manure neutralises all odors from the decom-
posing beast and decomposition will be com-
plete in a comparatively short space of time.
CHICORY.
“1LX.8.”: Why does Australia import
chicory? The crop is easily, grown in’cooler
districts that have deep ahd free soils, and a
Sydney merchant has assured me that lie
could handle unlimited quantities of locally-
prepared chicory if lie could get it. t
Chicory is a very hardy perennial, and
the plant will grow to a height of four feet
and supply excellent feed for all kinds of
stock, which eat it with avidity. The long,
carrot-like roots supply good feed ’for stock,
too, but their best value after being pre-
pared is as a substitute for coffee, or for
mixing with it. The roots will grow to
an enormous size if given the right condi-
tions, provided by thoroughly worked, deep
and loose soils. An average crop is 15 tons
to the acre, but with the usual methods of
selection and improvement it might be
doubled.
The seed should be sown in August or
September with a small drill that would be
suitable for sowing carrot seed. Five pounds
of seed will be required for an acre if
sown in drills 2ft. apart. The plants should
be thinned when they are about 4in. in
height, so that they are 9in. apart. Natural
manures should not be used, as they may
cause the roots to fork, but a dressing of
bonedust at the rate of half a ton to the
acre may be given when the plants are
thinned out.
Weed growth must be kept in 'check until
the leaves cover the ground, when interculri-
vation becomes unnecessary. The roots are
sufficiently mature for lifting in April, but
if the plant is required for winter feed the
harvesting of the roots may be left until
July. It is better, however, to lift the roots
early, as sun-dried chicory is superior to
that dried by artificial heat.
If the tops have not been fed off they
should be cut off when the root is .lifted.
The roots must be thoroughly washed and
dried before they are cut into slices, which
are exposed on racks to the sun until dry.
No special equipment is required for roast-
ing the dried slices, and an ordinary coffee
or similar mill is all that is required for
grinding.
A TOMATO-TOBACCO ROTATION.
“Jerso'': In mast of the big tomato-grow-
ing centres it is becoming increasingly difh-
cult each year to produce payable crops. To
a great extent this is attributable to the
methods of raising the young plants in the
seed-beds. They are nearly always sown far
too thickly, with the result that are
weak and unable to resist disease. Still,
in many districts, part of the trouble, it may
be suspected, is due to the laud having be-
come tomato sick. At Bendigo (Vie.) the
idea of growing tobacco on tomato-sick
land has presented itself. To rotate with
a tobacco crop, at the same time restoring the
natural qualities of the soil, sounds attract-
ing, and experiments which are being con-
ducted along these lines are being watched
with interest. It may be that certain dis-
tricts are fundamentally unsuited for such
a rotation, but it is worth while to find out
by a practical test. .
A WORD FOR TABLE CORN.
“Minto”: ll beats me why more growers
don’t take on the growing of table corn
(Indian corn). It's hardy and does well
in practically any soil. It's not a big grower
as regards height, and is not affected by wind
and rain like the farm crop. The stalk
will have from three to eight cobs, and in
Sydney the prices run from Is. to Ms. 6d. per
dozen cobs. It’s a good carrier for market,
and makes one of the nicest vegetables we
have. Hundreds of tins of the stuff are
imported from overseas, mostly from the
I'.S.A., where it's a great favorite. Aus-
tralia can grow better corn than any other
country in the world, so why not grow it
and leave the canned stuff alone?
FLUE-CURING TOBACCO.
“Cam”: “Bunyip" (B. 13/2/’29) describes
the old method of harvesting and air-drying
tobacco which hag given place to the pro-
cess of flue-curing the leaf. In December,
1923, the British-Australasian Tobacco Co.,
the only company operating in Australia on
a large scab', entered into an agreement witn
the Vic. and N.S.W. Governments under
which it undertook to purchase from grow-
ers, sun- and air-dried leaf in diminishing
quantities np to the 3925 season, after which
it would buy only Hue-cured leaf.
“Bunyip” says “the usual method of har-
vesting is to cut the plant off at the base.”
Here in S.A. we strip the leaves off the
plant as they ripen. Thus, uniformity of
ripeness is secured, as all the leaves do not
ripen at once. It is usually necessary to
make two or three pickings.
After picking, the ripe leaves are left on
the ground in the sun until they wilt, when
they are carted to the curing-barn and tied
with string on to sticks about sft. 6in.
long. They are then placed in position in
the barn in readiness for curing.
The first operation in curing consists in
sweating the leaf to force the ripening. This
usually takes from 24 to 36 hours for fairly
ripe leaf, and longer for greener leaf. The
temperature is kept at about 90deg. F., and
a humid atmosphere is maintained. A little
water sprinkled on the floor of the barn
assists the sweating.
The second process is that of fixing the
color, and is accomplished by opening the
top and bottom ventilators sufficiently to
drive off the moisture slowly. This will take
Hbout four hours at 105 deg., with an increase
of 2ldeg. per hour until Tl2ldeg. is reached.
This* temperature is maintained until the
leaves curl at the tips, and the temperature
should not go above 120cleg. until the sides
of the leaves curl round.
The third process, that of drying the web
of the leaf, is done by taking the tem-
perature from I2sdeg. to iSOdeg. in about
10 hours.
In the fourth and last process the tem-
perature is raised at the rate of sdeg. per
hour until ISOdeg. is reached. The curing
is completed when the mid-rib no longer
contains any moisture. When this, is accom-
plished the" fires are allowed to go out, all
ventilators are opened, and water is sprinkled
on the floor to bring the leaf back to con-
dition for handling.
The cured leaf is now removed to the bulk
shed, where it is immediately “bulked” down
and left for at least six weeks. After this,
the leaf can be sorted into proper grades,
tied into “hands” —bundles of about 12 leaves
tied with another leaf of the same grade—
and baled ready for market.
It is the practice of the 8.-A. T. Co. not
to inspect leaf with a view to purchase until
it lias been baled for at least six weeks
that period being necessary to prove that
the tobacco is in sound keeping condition.
This is also in the interest of the grower,
as it affords an opportunity of more accu-
rately estimating the value of the crop.
GRAPE-FRUIT.
P. J. Nally, Director of the Queensland
Government intelligence Bureau in Sydney,
writes: —
“Jerso” (B. 13/3/’29) isn’t fair to Queensland in
his references to the cultivation of grape-fruit. This
is grown fairly plentifully in different parts of the
State, particularly on the Blackall Range, and in the
Brisbane, Maryborough, Burnett, Cairns and Atherton


ŵ
For hard wear
Double leather
Twice the usual thickness of
leather gives double strength to
the sole of this Abbey Cossack,
which, nevertheless, is comfort-
ably flexible. The upper, also,
is doubled—having a snug
inner lining of soft leather. The
tongue fastens to sides by flaps
which keep out dust and grass
seeds—and further pad the
foot. A pronounced arch over
the instep prevents strain when
the boot is laced.
ORDER BY POST
Same sole leather used in all
styles—the higher-priced tan
boot has an upper of special
calf. Order the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin).
TAN WILLOW, 46/6 & 41/6
BLACK BOX CALF, 39/6
Enlarged catalogue of men’s, women’s and
children’s footwear posted on request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 Georgs St. and 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
FPLII9.
ẁ
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for legs than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
-p 11 ? cured by the application of Carbon
tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
lequires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins ... 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
rqpT FREE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY,, LTD.
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
ẃ
X
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess Insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
, Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONXEf.L STREET, SYDNEY.
PAY AS YOU GO BY CHEQUE
WJf- ?
1. It eliminates unwise spending.
2. It saves time and many steps in settling bills.
3. It gives prestige to your transactions.
4. It instils respect through your association with a reputable bank.
At this Bank you are allowed Interest on your
minimum quarterly balance.
mary'proii urers J3a rt k. (Ol usf ralia %
HEAD OFFICE: 12 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Branches throughout the Commonwealth and at London
districts. The fruit is equal to the best I tasted
during a recent tour through the United States of
America, both as regards flavor, flesh and size. At
Lawnt’on, a short distance from Brisbane, the Queens-
land Acclimatisation Society has propagated many
varieties of the fruit, including the pink-fleshed one.
Incidentally, this society has also successfully raised
numerous other fruits, including the avocada (alli-
gator pear), which is another of the breakfast or
lunch-table desserts. Most of the grape-fruit
gathered in Queensland is used for the making of
marmalade, jam and conserves; hence the reason for
regular supplies not coming to the Sydney and other
southern markets.
FRUIT-TREES AND IRRIGATION.
“Hop Scrub”: Irrigation and drainage
should go hand in hand, and hurried water-
ing of tiie surface foot or so is no remedy
for lack of drainage. It merely intensifies
surface rooting, and not to irrigate at all
would certainly be wiser. The water re-
quirements of fruit trees vary with such
factors as species, locality and soil types.
Citrus trees, being evergreens, require a con-
tinuous supply of moisture in the soil, the
peak period corresponding to the time of
highest temperature and greatest transpira-
tion loss, their total water requirement being
from 30 to 36 inches per annum in all
(rain plus irrigation).
Citrus trees are readily thrown out of
their normal cropping habit by irregular
rainfall, and judicious irrigation will coun-
teract just such conditions. There is no
danger of giving the trees “wet feet’’ if the
sub-surface soil is examined periodically to
a depth of 4ft. to 6ft. and moisture content
determined. Use a soil auger, and weigh the
soil before and after irrigation. Citrus trees
in suitable soils require up to 10 per cent,
of free moisture to make the best growth.
To determine the moisture in a given quan-
tity of soil, weigh it as soon as it is ex-
tracted with the auger, and then spread it
out to dry in the sun for eight to ten hours.
Then weigh it again. The loss' in weight is
due to the loss of free moisture ; in short,
is the moisture content of the soil.
As a general statement, water, or the
absence of it, is the limiting factor in the
production of regular crops of oranges, as
many growers proved during last season.
“Drying out” of the areas peopled by the
roots is' a process that is only necessary
where water has been lashed on without dis-
crimination. Three acre inches at a water-
ing is enough. Cultivation should follow
as soon as the land is workable. Straw
mulches are useful on small areas only.
Deciduous trees will grow and produce
good crops on from ISin. to 24in. of total
annual moisture. They will naturally stand
dry winters better than citrus, and they have
more definite periods when water is required.
The mean of a large number of experiments
indicate that these periods are at blossom-
time ; ati the period of maximum wood
growth, some six weeks later; and occasion-
ally, before harvesting. After the fruit is off
a good irrigation will help set the fruit buds
in districts where early frosts are not likely.
RIDING A DISTANCE.
“W.M.F.”: To get a horse to carry one
the greatest possible distance in a day, there
are points worth observing. Give him a
fairly big feed and a good drink before
you start, and don’t bustle him for the first
five or ten miles. If the country is level,
canter for about two miles at a stretch and
walk him about a quarter of a mile. In
hilly country fit the distances you canter
and walk to the contour of the road you
are travelling, and in consideration of
whether he is or is not a good walker.
With a fast walker you can allow him
more time at that pace: with a slow walker
you must keep pushing on. Pull him
about as little as possible, keep your whip-
hand still and use the spurs judiciously.
Every 25 miles or so dismount and change
the set of the saddle by taking it off and
putting it on again carefully without any
creases in the saddle-cloth. At midday give
him a drink and a light feed of some sort,
and again don’t hurry him too much for
the first few miles. By the middle of the
afternoon you ought to know just about
what is left in him, and travel accordingly.
FRUIT SUGAR.
“Yeoman”: If the research chemists in
the United States Bureau of Standards at
Washington are not too optimistic in claim-
ing that fructose (fruit sugar) can be pro-
duced on a commercial scale, then the death-
knell of the cane- and beet-sugar industries
has been sounded. Fructose can be made
from corn, Jerusalem artichokes, dahlias and
other plants. It opens up tremendous possi-
bilities, because the raw materials can be
produced under- more favorable economic
conditions than either cane or beet. Cane is
a semi-tropical product, while beet calls for
intensive “knee-farming.” On the other
hand both corn and artichokes can be grown
extensively, will thrive in most districts, and
can be cultivated with machinery. So far
the artichokes offer the widest scope in the
projected new industry. And that which
would make the proposition more attractive
to farmers is the fact that the tuber-like
root only is processed in the production of
fructose, while the tops are available on the
farm as a very useful fodder.
KEEP POULTRY CLEAN.
“H..T.M.”: The straiglitest road to success
with poultry is to keep the place clean. As
far as possible, moulted feathers should be
gathered and burnt. If caught thick in the
wire-netting mesh, apply a burning stick or
papers.. Tackle the red mite and lice in their
sheltering-places in the ends of roosts or in
cracks of the woodwork with wood-preserv-
ing oil (crude kerosene). Where the houses
are to be given a coat of whitewash, add
14oz. of acid to each gallon of the
fluid. Keep the hens out of the houses for
a couple of days until they dry out
thoroughly. Wash down the dropping-boards
once a week (or clean up the droppings from
the ground every day) and sweep up the
left-over green feed. Follow these rules and
give pure grain, and the poultry will build
up stamina ready for the next laying season.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How can I eradicate cutworms which are
attacking young cabbage plants? —943l.
The best control is poisoned bran bait,
scattered broadcast lightly at dusk on the
soil along the rows of vegetables or in in-
fested field crops. The bait is made by mix-
ing. while dry, lib. of Paris green or 41b.
of white arsenic (if Paris green is not avail-
able) with 241 b. bran (pollard is not so
attractive), and then making it into a
crumbly mash with 1 to 14 gallons of water,
to wnicli 21b. of molasses (or treacle) or soz.
of salt is added. The cutworms feed on the
bait and are poisoned.
Which is the hotter proposition on a
capital of, say, £so —squabs or poultry? —
9461.
Poultry-keeping carried out on sound lines
would give a greater return than could be
expected from squab-raising, hut a capital
of £5O would not be sufficient to provide
breeding stock, plant and necessary buildings.
How can I make trap-nests for foicls that
eat their eggs? —9sBo.
Egg-eating is a vice which trap-nesting
will not overcome. There are usually only
one or two culprits in a liock that will
pierce an egg, and, if ample nesting is pro-
vided to prevent the breaking of eggs, a
little observation should detect the few birds
responsible, which should be excluded from
the flock. Any hen will eat an egg once it
is broken.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Eureka”: If your dog takes a strychnine
bait, powder finely half a cupful of freshly-
burnt charcoal and mix with water. Pour
this down his throat and he should recover.
“Bufforp”: A liberal use of the kerosene
or lime spray will save the fowls a lot of
trouble from mosquitoes, and warts will be
minimised, too. Spray late in the evening;
you can’t overdo it. Kerosene is a good dis-
infectant.
“Agra”: The following mash for poultry
is recommended as having given a hatch-
ability of over 80 per cent, of eggs set
throughout the season: Bran, 201 b.; pollard,
331 b.; maize gluten. 201 b.; lucerne meal,
161 b.; meat meal (compo.), 51b.; linseed
meal, 31b.; dried brewers’ yeast, 31b.; total,
1001 b.
“0.M.”: Before planting any of the bras-
sica seed lines (cabbage, cauliflower, Brus-
sels sprouts or Kohl rabi) dip the plants in
a mixture made of one gallon of water
in which is emulsified jib. soap and a table-
spoonful of kerosene. This kills off aphis,
and the plants have a better chance to start
growth right away.
“E.II.”: For fattening ducklings the best
food is pollard (three parts), barley meal or
ground oats (ohe part) and boiled rice (one
part) given three times a day. Fresh water
should be supplied twice a day in vessels
about four inches deep, with half an inch
of shell-grit in them. Give green feed at
midday, and boiled meat (mashed or cut
fine) once a week. Ducks will be ready
for market with this intensive feeding in
10 weeks.
“M.H.”; Swede turnips can be kept for
months if stored in a cool place. A shaded
southerly corner is suitable. Make a, sand
floor, then cover the tubers with straw, hay
or grass, and finally place turfs on them.
If the land is not to be used, hill the soil
over the turnips and let. them remain. Frosts
(which spoil the flavor) and heat (which
causes them to “sweat” and make growth)
are the things to guard against.
“Pick” ; When rats or mice become numer-
ous and troublesome in the barh, an easily-
fixed and constantly-set trap may be made
by filling a large zinc tub to within four
inches of the rim with water. Cover the
surface of the water with a thick layer of
chaff, and over it sprinkle a handful of
grain. Lean a paling or other ready means
of ascent for the rodents against the side
of the tub, so that it projects over/the water.
Unaware of the water below, the night-time
foragers will jump into the chaff and sink
through it, and their drowned carcases may
be taken out in the morning.
“Hallmint” : Autumn is the best time to
plant trees for shade, ornament or break-
wind. Get busy with the holes now and
open them up as deep as you can. A few
barrow-loads of rubbish and small stones
will help make drainage, and if the trees
are set with a stake to tie them to before
winter sets in all the better. The soil gets
too cold and damp in the winter, and many
roots rot off. Sown now. they have a
chance to get established. Plant small trees
and they will move better. If you can put
a charge of explosive into the hole you’ll
give the tree a better chance. Don’t forget
a tree-guard if stock are about. In fowl-
yards plant fruit trees —they prov'de shade
in the summer and don’t interfei'e with
sunlight in winter.
“K.T.H.”: “Wingella” (B. 6/2/’29) is
wrong in saying that the owners of Kool-
pinyah station (N.T.) are importing new
Brahmin bulls. The only introduction of
fresh blood into the Koolpinyah herd has
been six Hereford bulls from ohe of Vestey
Bros.’ holdings and 40 Shorthorn bulls from
Mataranka station, all the progeny of
Queensland stud bulls. Brahmin bulls on
Koolpinyah are shot on sight.
“Sandy” : Samples of wool from which the
tar brand had been removed were shown by
a Geelong firm of wool-brokers at a recent
sale. The wool had been treated by a solu-
tion, the discovery of Tom Pidd, a Geelong
timber merchant, who served an apprentice-
ship in pharmaceutical chemistry in his
youth. A few T years ago he fell into a. tar-
pit, and devised a means of removing the
tar from his hair without injuring it. and
at the suggestion of a friend he applied the
recipe to wool, with entirely satisfactory
results.
“Corncob”: An improved method of trans-
porting sheep by rail or motor-lorrv has been
developed at the instance of legal knight
Edward Mitchell, of Melbourne. The vehicle
is divided into three tiers and the sheep are
placed on these platforms in a squatting
position, in which they are retained by
strips of canvas passed over their backs and
bound at the sides. Since they are sitting,
the sheep cannot fall over, and are. it is
claimed, much less liable to injury and much
more comfortable than if herded togeHier
standing. The space occupied is less than
if the usual method were adopted. The system
was demonstrated in Vic. latelv, and graziers
said they considered the results very satis-
factory.


/
Unprecedented Pu
Upo
ft*.
!" <
I v-'r/.v,
r sy> ■ % i
:V / /
jjjji
/ '»sV< ;
'sih%ppo
HE Australian motor-car-buying
public has been quick to appreciate
how the 1929 line of Whippet Fours
and Sixes, completely re-designed and vastly
superior, brings to the light-car field Greater
Beauty, Longer Wheelbase, with Larger,
Roomier Bodies, and, in addition, improve-
ments and superiorities in the mechanical
excellence for which Whippets have always
been noted.
Since the initial announcement to the Aus-
tralian public, less than a month ago, all
Australian assembly plants have been work-
ing at high pressure to cope with the ever-
increasing flow of orders for immediate
delivery. Fortunately, in anticipation of the
country-wide serving to the New Superior
Whippet, large and continuous shipments
were arranged, and, although the sales list
is rapidly growing, prompt deliveries are
being and will be made.
Consult your nearest Willys-Overland dealer
to-day, and learn what tremendous pound-
for-pound value you obtain in the new
Superior Whippet Fours and Sixes.
OVERLAND (VIC.) PTY., LIMITED,
117-21 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LIMITED,
173 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
E. G. EAGER & SON, LIMITED,
Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead,
Brisbane.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
LIMITED,
62-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
ADAMS MOTORS, LIMITED,
442 Murray Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LIMITED,
53-56 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
i
ẅ


VERLAND
ippet
Instant
lie Demand Absorbs Stocks
Arrival
=7
L /
V ?c
A
u
h
V
jf* M °^
<fc
,0
o
£
&
4
*
0
d
o
-TSMMuyuui
SS3
fcs
*r
Ov
•3?*u^
F
A
<>
JO
PATON N 4
INTRODUCING THE NEW
u
FINGER-TIP
CONTROL
ft
HE MOST NOTABLE ADVANCE
MV DRIVING CONVENIENCE
SINCE THE SEIE-SXAHTEH.
OVERLAND WHIPPET FOURS&SIXE.S


mMt
AH3IA
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
french Caovernment.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
/ v ':
■
: MB
r»V
«M <
s
-TXj
I A
i /
i
•%
“Its Quality Never Changes.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
SMOKE-OH!
Melbournite’s greeting: “Bomb jour!”
, Britain still rules the waves.” Tor which
it can thank its tars
* *
Reflection inspired by encounter with
Peaceful Picket:—lt wouldn’t matter so
much the die being cast if it wasn't so often
cast-iron.
* *
Marriage provides at least one great ex-
perience. Until he sees his wife in her
pyjamas many a man does not know what
a woman looks like when she’s dressed
V- *
i here is fresh trouble on the Queensland
canefields between Australians and Italians.
Mrs. Bloggs’s solution is to give both sec-
tions the cane.
* #
A Brisbane burglar was arrested on the
evidence> of. teeth-marks in a plug of tobacco
he left behind, lie is now chewing it over
m gaol.
A man toasted the Lithgow police at
a local slirvoo was arrested three days later.
1 he police are making things warm‘for him
now.
¥ *
“Successful experiments have been made in re-
calling the dead to life.’’—World’s News.
We know. We backed one at Rosehill some
time ago, and it came to life at Randwick
last week.
, * ¥
’ HEART CRY.
“Come home, , miss you bad,
—S. M. llerald Agony column.
“ Come, home!” / cry, and sadly brood,
Roth mind and yamryar niyd. . „
“I always used to miss you good,
And now / miss you bad.”
Turnus.
YES, IT MUST BE THAT.
“How is it you are always late in the morn-
ing, Miss Offley.”
“Really, I don’t know. I think I must sleep
very slouly.”
A. man named Wonders complained to the
Melbourne pdlice that he had been robbed
of £45 by the confidence trick. Some of
these con. men can certainly do Wonders.
HINT TO DISTILLERS.
I,hold it truth with him who sings —
Especially when I am dry--
Whate’er, he true of other things,
The price of whisky's too dam’ high.
H.
H*
POST-MORTEMS.
When a mail is found drowned we assume
that he failed to keep, his head above water.
A Melbourne defaulter recently took a
dose of poison. Apparently he preferred
Death to His Honor.
The Darlinghurst resident who said that
gunmen made him tired was finally bored
to death by one of them.
A recent heading to a newspaper article
was: “Went to Ilis Own Funeral.” Unfortu-
nately there is nothing uncommon about that.
An artisf.t was found dead in his studio.
The cause of death, naturally, was art
failure.
According to anew Customs regulation,
after April' -21 all Victorian eggs will require
to bear the word “Empire” or “Australian.”
It scarcely gives backblocks hens time to be
informed.
, * *
Euphemisms:—
Decree Aivi: Intermediate Certificate.
Decree Absolute: Leaving Certificate.
* *
We hear of a Scotsman who promised to
shout his son to a Test match, but when he
arrived found his neighbor’s wireless set out
of order.
ŵ
FIXTURES.
The crime experts of the press have satis-
fied me that the leaders of the underworld
do little else but fix things or people, or
threaten to fix them.
Thus, a row in Richmond (Melbourne)
ended temporarily with cries of "We'll fix
you for this.” The next act occurred in a
taxi when a gang 1 ushed to do the pro-
mised fixing, and told the driver that if he
said anything about it he would be fixed.
After some further conversation about "fix-
ing" and some revolver shots, the dispute
died down amidst assurances that anyone
who tried to fix the disturbers would be
fixed himself.
s * * *
I am writing this in hospital. As I was
pouring myself out a drink a voice said be-
hind me:
“I’ve just come in to fix”——-
I went through the window. When I came
to I was in bed and a doctor was stooping
over me.
“We’ll soon fix you up,” he said.
No doubt he meant well, and was surprised
that I fainted again. Later I heard the
nurse say: “lie's coming round, and can
have his medicine. I'll fix it.”
It was through going backwards out of bed
that I dislocated my left arm. They hope to
have me fixed up by next month.
M.
“These people,” snid a Sydney police ser-
geant, “are always either having rows or
picnics.” Alarums or excursions.
* *
BRUTAL BROWN.
I passed Brown my story for his criticism.
“What’s your alias?’' he asked.
“You mean nom cle plume,” I corrected.
“Only criminals use alias.”
“Alias is the word,” he said, “you’ve mur-
dered the yarn.”
W. P. T.
* *
There is an urgent desire for new blood
in the Federal Ministry. Yet no member
has offered himself so far for a trans-
fhughesion.
It is believed that the Vic. Railway
Commissioners’ request to be allowed to
shoot magpies on railway property is due
to complaints of restaurant-car patrons re-
garding the duck.
THE TRUTH AND THE WHOLE
TRUTH.
“What is your reason for wishing to marry
my daughter?”
“I have no reason, sir. I am in love.”
“Parents must keep a stricter eye on their
grils,” a contemporary remarks. "Otherwise,
of course, the fat will be in the fire.
SACKED .
To milk the cow J wanted him.
He’d r/rub and fence and plough,
Toil from grey dawn till dusk grew dim,
And well, too, I’ll allow;
But still 1 had to fire him.
He could not milk—the cow!
Harold H'abdacres.
MISLAID IN THE CRUSH.
They hud quarrelled. He said Hwus “for
ever ” . .
,I n his letter the following morn.
Then he weakened and thought he'd he cHver
And that soon of her Huff she'd he shorn
\\ hen she got his brief billet demanding
I lie return of his diamond ring.
Her reply had a bullet-like “ping."
It was: “Frightfully sorry, old thing.
I re so many engagements outstanding
that I don’t know which is your damned
ring!”
HOMFREY.
RELEVANCE.
“A litigant who had heen told that certain
evidence he wished to produce in court was ‘not
relevant to the. issue’ has been writing to the Sydney
papers protesting against the excluding of any evi-
dence that a suitor considers helpful to his case.”
The sort of Law Report we may yet
have:— %
Yesterday Was the 451st day of the Bul-
gin v. Bashern case. Plaintiff suing for
specific performance of a contract to build
u garage, and asks for assessment of dam-
ages for delay in completion of the work.
Plaintiff, in the witness-box, stated that
Bashem’s cousin, a man named Wart, had
been sentenced to imprisonment in 1903 for
arson. Basliem was the descendant of a man
who arrived in the First Fleet, having been
transported for dog-stealing. Counsel for
respondent protested against hearing evidence
of this description; but,
nfter argument, documen-
tary evidence was put
in which established the
truth of some of the
assertions.
Mr. Wagjaw (counsel
for Bashem) intimated
that lie would call three
habitual boarders who
would testify that a
fourth boarder, while liv-
ing in an establishment
kept by the sister of
Mrs. Bulgin’s aunt, had
been starved to death in
1 SOS. A veteran of the
Boer War would swear
that Bulgin’s father's
third cousin had gone
bankrupt in 1902, and
that an uncle of this
man’s l ad once been fined
for selling tainted meat.
Mr. Muddlefax (repre-
senting plaintiff) de-
clared that at least two
days would be occupied
by witnesses brought to
refutfc statements con-
cerning plaintiff’s parent-
age and ancestry, alleged
to have been made by re-
spondent.
Papers so far produced
in the case, and marked
ns exhibits,' include the
documents in the Flapp
r. Flapp divorce case, in
whi c h Mrs. Bulgin’s
niece gave evidence in
INN 7; the official notes
of the case of Rex v.
Tt'nknm (an employee of
Mr. Bashem’s father),,
and a number of sum-
monses issued against
persons, now dead, for
not having their dogs
registered and keeping
defective garbage fins.
Yestjercfciy tin* . oak; on me, to nn abrupt
conclusion, after several “brushes” between
counsel and Judge and a series of “inci-
dents." These matters are reported else-
where in this issue under the headings:
“Who Killed Montgomery?” “Was the Fowl
Stolen?” “Echo of Old Breach of Promise
Action” and “The Defective Velocipede.”
At 3.49 p.m. the foreman of the jury
intimated that he and his colleagues did not
desire to hear any more evidence, and gave
a unanimous verdict of bigamy against Mrs.
Freelance, sister-in-law of the plaintiff. In
mentioning that there were alternative ver-
dicts of barratry and espionage, the foreman
pointed out that the jury had heard evidence
on so many matters that it had forgotten
what the original case was about. His Honor
admitted that he was in a similar position,
and passed the death sentence on Aloysius
Slink, brother-in-law of the respondent. lie
disbarred Mr. Wagjaw, and had the papers
in connection with Mr. Muddlefax sent to
the Crown Prosecutor.
Argument concerning costs will be con-
tinued next week.
SIXENATE.
HELEN’S CHOICE.
A strange dog had planted himself at
Helen’s gate, and when I accidentally fell over
him lie buried his teeth in my new trousers.
Two cats fled before him as I stepped on to
ALWAYS A CATCH IN IT.
SLOW BUT PERSISTENT SUITOR: “If you’ll marry me I’ll take
out a big insurance policy on my life so that you’ll
be well provided for.”
THE GIR L: “Yes, but suppose you don’t die?”
At the hack of the house Helen’s
Aberdeen terrier was yapping at a flock of
starlings and sparrows which were stealing
wheat from a covey of Leghorn fowls. A
cockatoo on the verandah was screaming ap-
proval—or it might have been protest. A
goat was eating a jam-tin near the garage.
Inside the house my bride-to-be was feeding
the canary with one hand and stroking her
Persian kitten with the other. A Pom. lay
at her feet.
“Hullo, darling.” she said as I entered the
room. “I’ve decided where we’ll go for our
honeymoon.”
“Good.”
“Yes, we’ll go to Uncle Harold’s farm. It
will be such a change.”
“A change from what?”
“You know I love animals and birds and
we never see any about here. Well, uncle has
lots—thousands.”
I did not answer, being incapable of
coherent speech—besides which I was in a
hurry to get home and change my trousers.
QUITE HEARTLESS.
*S 'he had no heart. The charge was true
Against that modern maid.
She was a heartless girl we knew
When she put down a spade.
SORIC.
THE CHAMPION.
He punched and fought—in mighty strokes
His fists now fell, now rose,
Impressing all the watching folks
With their sledge-hammer blows.
He finished with a knock-out swipe
Which quite knocked out the crowd,
And then, like others of his type,
The newest pianist bowed.
N.S.W.
DOBIC.


I
1
1
ggi
I
Mg
HI
11
I
tii
*A
,//M
// y?s/y//V'.
m
HE originality of design,
smart curve of brim,
natural set on the head,
instantly mark the
Fayrefield as different
from other hats.
Not only because it is
Australian-made, but because of
its hard-wearing and shape-retain-
ing qualities, let your choice be a
Fayrefield
Select to-day from a wide variety
of shapes, sizes and shades.
avXQjielct
are ih cir l/leriis wi i K
ona
A
Obtainable at all the
leading Mercers
PRODUCT OF UNITED FELT HATS PTY- LTD
Fl 3


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets.
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Pisk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
(BRANDY]
jf|||KV StounjcUfbi (2ge c 2ua&6f/j\
oiseA "tfui /Aw
a
■ ■ i
iiiP
Monday to Friday
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/-
Saturday, Late Gala Night,
Special Table d’HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 12/6; or
a la carte, minimum, 12/6
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 6.30, 5/-
The Ambassadors New Delightful
Dance Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and llhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order IFtnes before 6 p.m. ’Phone; M4lBl.
A ROGUE IN AMBER
By- J. B. COOPER
Illustrations by-Percy Liixdscy-
Synopsis: Implicated in Paris in
the murder of the Baroness Jiellarosa,
Antonio Faeeaeo, a Neapolitan, escapes,
leaving his co-criminal, Francois
Feign-, in gaol. Twenty years later
he is in Australia ‘with his wife Jean-
nette and their handsome daughter
Marie, who exchanges impassioned let-
ters with Gerald Deacon, though
Gerald's father, before his death, had
wished his son to marry Betty Cal-
croft, a Mildufa girl, who, however,
is loved by Jack Garew, a farmer.
Baccaco, non ? under the name of Car-
ducci, opens a shop in Melbourne with
insurance money he secured by burn-
ing his hawker's launch in the Dar-
ling. Marie sits as model to Edward
Felspar, who had married during
student days in Paris, but whose, wife
had left him. After his return to
Australia Felspar received a certificate
of her death, and this Carducci, always
eager to make money by any means,
steals from the studio just before leav-
ing for Sydney. Felspar, in propos-
ing to Betty Calcroft, who i.s staying
in Melbourne with her relations, the
Clintons, discovers his loss, and,
though Betty lightly r -jeets him, he
later mentions the certificate to Clin-
ton, who suspects Carducci and decides
to get into touch with the Parisian
police. Gerald, who has been to Eng-
land, returns and has a horse entered
for Melbourne races. In Sydney Marie,
sits as model to another artist, and
Carducci becomes partner in a shop,
where one day he is recognised by
Ncigre, who had, spent 20 years as a
coiivict at Noumea.
SO astonished was Carducci that he sat
down, as ordered.
‘'Dio Mio! Who are you?” he gasped.
The man turned his face towards the
Italian, who saw the well-femembered red
and white scar left on the dark-colored
cheek by the slash of an apache’s knife.
“Neigre!” Carducci ejaculated.
“Oui! Frangois Neigre!”
“The Saints save me! You here—in
Sydney? I thought you were at lie Nou.”
“And hoped so, too,” said Neigre. “Ah,
Saccaco, it was a rnouchard’s trick you played
me, you fat swine, when you made bait of
me for the police, and then fled with the
francs and jewels. I was to meet you in
the Avenue des Ternes, eh? And we meet
in Sydney—a good joke on me, eh, me
from Xew Caledonia!”
Carducci’s face betrayed the fear that was
in him.
“What, good could have come of my
standing by you?” he cried. “The police
were upon us!”
“You ran fast enough, that’s true,
Saccaco; but you won't escape when Neigre
is caught once more. I do not like the
chance you have to lose me again, my
friend.” He looked around him, and added •
“I have found you when I am very hungry.”
“Certainly, Neigre. To you the best steak,
the one in the window, eh? Donzetti he
do it with the onion?”
“Non! Non! It is my purse that is
hungry, Saccaco. I want my share of the
francs and jewels.”
“Dio mio! I not have money.”
“Poor Saccaco! No money, eh? We will
see.”
Neigre rubbed his strong hands together
and leaned over the small table close to
the Italian. He detected the small gold
chain around his neck. \\ ith a quick thrust
he pushed his long fingers in between Car-
ducci’s collar and neck, and in a moment
he had drawn the chain upwards, bringing
its pendant the gold cross into sight.
Carducci tried to prevent Neigre from
interfering with him. but the Frenchman
snapped the delicate chain and pushed the
man s diin tack With »ih » ?ou*l,jolt
that the violence of “La Savate ” cowed
him. After looking for a moment at the
cross and its inscription a Marie }i he throw
it on the table. ’ ’
“I thought so,” he said. “The cross from
the old woman’s neck! You fat canaille!
You have lived on my money, while I
sweated blood under surveillants' revolvers!
Bon Dieu! 1 want my money, ten pounds
as a beginning—do you hear, Saccaco? Ten
pounds! Or will you return with mo to
the mines and sweat your pig-fat. off?”
“Dio mio, no! I give the ten pounds,
My friend, not. me to be an ingrate to you—
Frangois.”
“Tres bien! We understand each other,
Signor Saccaco, holy patron of plaster
saints!” Neigre laughed at his own gibe
and added: “To each saint Ids candle!
Saccaco, you’ll have to burn many pound-
notes as incense to Saint Neigre to save
you from sweating off your hog-fat in the
purgatory of He Nou!”
Chapter XI.
Greatly as the crafty Carducci chafed
under the stress of being blackmailed by
Neigre, he was not able to circumvent “La
Savate ” just then, though he hoped, later,
“He drew a knife to Kill her, that he might more easily throw her into the sea.”
by some adroit move, to have the apache
arrested by the police in Sydney and extra-
dited to New Caledonia without in any
way compromising himself; or maybe he
could stupefy him with drugged drink, and
shanghai him on board one of the Puget
Sound timber-carrying vessels. But until
that happy night Neigre v was in his life,
and it was just as well to humor him while
trying to keep his demands for money
within a reasonable limit.
After the two men had agreed to a truce
on these terms, Neigre told Carducci some-
thing of the story of his life since the
night in Paris when Carducci last saw him
starting to climb over the roofs to enter
the apartments
of the Baroness
Bella r o s a.
When Neigre
descended the
rope, two offi-
cers of police stepped out from the
shadow and seized him. After that it was
not long before he saw the red lamp of a
Paris police station; he was bundled into a
cell and the officials of the Prefecture de
Police and the Judge dill the rest, sending
him for life to the convict settlement at
New Caledonia.
Neigre served seven years as a convict,
then seven years under surveillance; after
that he dragged out his life as a liberc
till it was twenty years or more since he
and Saccaco stood together on the Boule-
vard Haussmann looking up at the Baroness
Bellarosa’s apartment. A year ago he and
his woman companion Lisette escaped from
the penal settlement in a half-decked boat,
which he, being a sailor, knew how to handle.
After being two days at sea, and well out-
side the Barrier Reef, a tropical storm came
upon them with alarming suddenness, bring-
ing strong winds, an angry sea and blinding
sheets of rain, with thunder crashings and
lightning. The sail, when the first black
squall struck, was carried away, and the boat
became unmanageable. How they and their
cockleshell lived through that night of horror
he did not know. Morning dawned at last,
and with it came a calm, the boat rising
and falling easily to the movement of a
long heavy swell, with scarcely a wave cap
on its oily surface. The oars were broken.
The food Was destroyed. There was
but little fresh water left; two drums had
been swept overboard during the storm.
Then, Mon Dieu! they would have been
glad to have risked the dangers of the
reef and to have returned to the penal
settlement, but they had neither sail nor
stick. They could only drift and bail, help-
less flotsam.
The woman lay in the bottom of the
water-logged boat, almost as cold as a corpse
on the marble slab of a morgue. Her clothes
were sodden, her face was blanched, her
eyes were closed; no movement came from
her. Neigre said that to him she appeared
dead. Her body was burdening the boat,
and he tried to push it overboard. But
hr was too weak to do it; he fell heavily
across the woman’s body and lay where he
fell. So they were found by an island
trading schooner, which tacked and bore
down on them.
The master—Captain Mac., the crew
called him—gave them what they wanted—
rest and food. After a night’s sleep Neigre
was once more himself. “Captain Mac.” asked
him then if he and the woman were not
escaped French convicts, and he told the
truth about it. The captain said the French
authorities interfered with his trade and he
had no time for them. Short handed in
crew, he was glad to have the services of
a seaman. A few hours later another sudden
tropical storm burst. The schooner labored
heavily. They had a night of shrieking
wind and roaring seas, not knowing the
minute when they would founder.
The Seagull was bound for Townsville.
Arrived there, with the connivance of the
captain they passed themselves off to in-
quirers as French settlers from the New
Hebrides on their way to France.
With a few coins the captain had given
them, they made their way to Brisbane,
where for a while they lived as they could,
and then went on to Sydney. Since that
time they had managed to exist, but were
never free from the fear of arrest. Aus-
tralian detectives, Neigre said, were keen
to send back recidivistes who had escaped
from lie Nou, and
the penal authori-
ties did not, on
their return, kill
any fatted calf for
them. They found
instead n greater
hell waiting for
them than the one
from which they
had escaped.
Neigre told Car-
ducci that such
things were in
some lives, and he,
being a child ot
misfortune, could
take the blows
without weeping.
“Besides,” he
added, placing his
right hand on Car-
ducci’s shoulder,
“with you Saccaco.
as mon camarade
in a chain gang,
prison life would
be quite t o 1 e r-
able!”
When Mrs. Car-
ducci knew that
Franco is Neigre had
escaped from New
Caledonia and was
in Sydney and in
touch with her
husband, her heart
thrust so wildly
that she could
scarcely breathe.
Tver since the first
day, twenty years
ago, she had seen
him in Paris she had held in her mind a
horror of the apache. He had an evil eye,
and his feet were hoofed with evil. She felt
her husband’s liberty was in peril if he
associated with Neigre; but how could she
stop her husband from going to his destruc-
tion? The coclion would not listen to her,
his wife, who had never advised him to his
shame.
Prayer to St. Catharine was her unfailing
resource to avert evil, and she besought that
the Evil Eye of ‘ La Savate” might not fall
upon them. She implored her husband to
pray also to the saints to remove Neigre
from his life. Carducci answered her coarsely
that he had now no faith in saints; they
were too far away—not one of them had
answered his prayers since he had been in
(Continued on Page 55.)


FLORES CE STOVES
w
for better, cleaner, quicker cooking.
Finished in grey and black porcelain enamel, the Florence
Oil Stove worthily graces the most up-to-date kitchen.
Easily cleaned—easy to keep clean—the Florence is
amazing in operation.
Non-odorous, smokeless, no wicks to trim, the focussed
heat ensures successful and economical cooking, keeps
the kitchen clean and cool.
At the price, the Florence is obviously par excellence
value.
For Coinfort, Safety, Con-
venience and Economy,
none can surpass
NU-LITE
LAMPS
and
COMFORT
BENZINE
IRONS
Let us demonstrate, or
send for free leaflets.
We stock all Electrical
Accessories, Lamps, Lamp-
shades, Primus Stoves, etc.
Let us quote you on
wholesale delivery.
Let us demonstrate the Florence, oi
write for free leaflets, which give full
particulars. Address correspondence to
Desk BN.
BRANDTS
LIMITED,
“Everything jor Light and Heat.”
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
’PHONES: M 4651, MAI 002.
Q’land Agents : J. T. Greenlees & Co., Ann Street, Brisbane,
Michelmore k Co., Macltay.
Armstrong Ledlie & Stillman, Cairns.
Samuel Allen & Sons, Ltd., Townsville.
H. & J. Friend, Ltd., Gladstone.
Agencies open in Other States.
Superior Bathroom Equipment
ŵ
m
Superior Bathroom Ware as supplied to the
Better-class Hotels, Coffee Palaces, Guest
Houses, etc., throughout the States, and to
thousands of Homes the Best in Baths,
Pedestal and other Lavatory Basins, Re-
cess Bathroom Fixtures in White Enamelled
Earthenware, High-class Nickel-plated Fit-
tings Bath Cabinets, Mirrors, Mats, etc.
There are so many Nice Things for the
Bathroom displayed now in both our Mel-
bourne and Sydney Showrooms, and a visit
to either will convince you the*- a Model
Bathroom can be accomplished on Moderate
Means.
The HUSH Silent Flasher
ẁ
Approved by Water Boards in Various States and
extensively used in both Public and Private Build-
ings.
The Hush is mechanically efficient, bearing surfaces
are large, and wearing parts are made of specially-
toughened metal.
The Leading Plumbers
Use Daspyl Brasswork. It holds a high reputation
throughout the Commonwealth, and every line in
Daspyl Plumbers’ Lead and Brasswork carries our
guarantee.
Daspyl Goods fully comply with the requirements
of the various Boards of Works; and the range in
Plumbers’ Lead and Brass Fittings bearing our Trade-
mark is very complete.
-pry'-
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HUSBANDS—GiIt-Edged and Otherwise.
“My Lovebird mm*t obey me and
lie still,
Poor little Pet—so pale md drawn
and ill l
* Only a headaene ’ Stuff and
nonsense, dear,
You're in for some prave malady,
I fear.”
La
□
"v/
~Mr++ 'R
THE MINISTERING HUSBAND.
“ Bite this thermometer .and do
not speak,
I’ll nurse you night and day. and
fan your cheek:
For Heaven’s sake don't sob and
look depressed—
There’s always hope while we've
ABDULLA’S Best.”
— b, Si Holm*#.
SUPERB CIGARETTES
• •' A,
TURKISH
EGYPTIAN
VIRGINIA


Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Restful, quiet and cool —open to the Summer Sea Breezes. Delightfully situated with Private
Beach ' and Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service.
Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Summer Tariff f.-om 5 guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes" trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines). Management M. E. BURROWS.
Pi
Get every word with
MAGNAVOX!
Magnavox Dynamic Radio
Speaker gives clear articula-
tion of the spoken as well as
singing voice, life-like real-
ism that is startling in its
fidelity to life itself .
The Aristocrat
A.C., £lB/10/-
D.C., £l5/10/-
A.C. Unit fits in any
i cabinet, £lO/10/-
Come in and hear Magnavox today*
Let us show you the many beautiful
cabinet and table speakers in the line*
YOUR NEAREST RADIO DEALER
CAN DEMONSTRATE .
MAGNA.VOX
DYNAMIC SPEAKER
Australian Patent Ko. 7225.
NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD<
HEAD OFFICE, MELBOURNE.
-v '‘irr'K?*&&%¥
ZZ'T
I
nx
Capital Paid up
£5,000,000
Reserve Fund
£3,000,000
Total Assets
£45,622,056
480 Offices and Branches in
Australia.
LONDON OFFICES:
7 Lothbury and
Australia House, Strand.
Principal Office in New South Wales:
342 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Bank provides a complete service covering the financial
side of Australian Industry—including farming, grazing,
manufacturing, transport, wholesale and retail trade, as well
as import and export transactions. It makes loans against
approved securities and allows interest on money lodged on
deposit for terms ranging up to two years. Full provision
is made to meet the banking needs of tourists and settlers.
Agents throughout the World.
BY APPOINTMENT.
(ZUfor
G<s>rdl<s>tt 5 s
©IN
The Ingredients used in the production of
GORDON S GIN are of the finest quality procur-
able, and contain the greatest percentage of those
important properties which are considered by the
Medical Profession to be most beneficial to the
human system. It is very highly rectified and contains
no impurities of any kind; it is therefore very easily
digested and also aids the digestion of other beverages
with which it is mixed.
The name “GORDON” guarantees the very high-
est standard of quality and absolute purity: a
reputation enjoyed and jealously guarded ior over
150 years.
The Largest Gin Distillers in the World ♦
Gordons
sb
dryGih
©estjllessi?:
LOKMa
k
•A
Zf
WHITEST
PUREST
& BEST
The Heart
of a good
Cocktail
Obtainable
Everywhere
MORE SHOOTING AT LESS COST
Reloading your own ammunition made easy
with Ideal Tools,
Price £3/2/6
standard for 35 years.
IDEAL reloading tools turn
out accurate shooting ammu-
nition. No special skill re-
quircd. See description of tools and
accessories in Ideal Handbook, the
most complete treatise on reloading.
Send 2/6 for copy, or Free Folder.
No. 1
Lubricator
and Sizer
for Bullets,
each.
Ideal Lubricant made espec
ally for greasing- bullet
Price per stick, 1/6.
Fof prompt reply j send your inquiries for literature to
exclusive representatives:
ASHER SMITH, LTD.,
P.O. Box 966GG, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE LYMAN GUN SIGHT CORP.,
West Street, Middlefield, Conn., U.S.A.
Best for resizing expanded shells
entire length. Price 25/- each.
ẃ


ffIMCff£STM
TRADE MARK
s
w
iSTBt
£ss
\?
*
M
* <>m!»
Keep your barrel clean and
rustless by shooting Winchester .22 Staynless cartridges.
All the famous Winchester uniformity, dependability and
accuracy plus positive protection from rusting and pitting.
In Lesmok powder insist on Winchester .22 Lcstayn cart-
ridges (Lesmok powder with non-corrosive priming) which give
maximum protection from rusting and pitting.
Demand them by name every time. Look for the “H”
stamped on the head.
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS COMPANY
New Haven Conn.U. S. A.
For file by dealers everywhere
mm
BUI
S M O 1^)
n
w
"V
A
m
.Vs*/*
ẅ
w
ŵ
Pen and Picture
Shadow Shows
In “Morgan’s
La s t It aid”
(Metro - Gold-
wyn-Mayer) the
American Civil
War is put on
the screen as no
one but a
g e n i u s like
Kid McCoy and such another genius as the
scenario-writer could have managed it.
McCoy is just about to say “I will” when a
nigger breaks in with a telegram. It is from
McCoy’s dad, saying that the sender has
joined the Southern army and the son should
join, too. Young McCoy agrees, and, in spite
of the heroic efforts of his prospective father-
in-law and others to shoot him, manages to
escape. Later he returns to rescue his bride-
to-be in most thrilling circumstances from
an ignited arsenal just before the place is
blown to Billy-lio. Indeed the picture is so
splendid that everyone under the age of five
ought to enjoy it tremendously.
“Three Week-ends” (Paramount) belongs
to a species which defies criticism. It is
impossible to greatly like or dislike it. You
follow it through as you follow through a
pleasant dream, and with about as much
CLARA BOW.
profit. The
story is by
Elinor Glyn, a
writer of
sometimes
warm light-
fiction. This
is about as
war m a s
boarding-house
toast. It’s
a si m pie
U.S.A. tale of
an insurance
youth’s efforts
to gather in a
mil lionaire
client; of how
he smites the
millioned one
on the nose
for becoming
too friendly
with a girl
who, though
she dances in
a cabaret, is a
„ . lady just the
same; of how the girl thinks he is rich and
wants to wed him, and learns that he is poor
and so rejects him ; and then of her learning'
that she loves him, rich or poor, and their
separately-conducted assault on the million-
aire’s reluctance to insure, an assault which
further estranges them, but at last hurls them
into each other’s arms. It is not the sort of
tiling to make anyone want to leave home and
live in a movie-house, but those wlio like
stars above stories and Clara Bow above stars
will no doubt find it satisfying enough. A
sweet little thing Clara.
In “The Further Adventures of the Flag
Lieutenant,” wicked Bolsheviks with Cro-
Magnon faces steal secret orders from a dear
old admiral who wouldn’t hurt a fly, and a
resourceful young lieutenant, assisted by a
comic sailor and a comic marine, proceeds
to circumvent them in the most roundabout
way and a perfectly laundered shirt. He
climbs walls and swims rivers, boards a
Chinese junk, heaves the crew overboard
single-handed and sets fire to the craft. He
gets caught and is taken to the Bolshevik
headquarters at Wu Ping. Here he is kicked,
jumped on and tortured, stoushes his captors
and escapes through u window, still wearing
the perfectly laundered shirt. Then he signals
the fleet, which lands a mechanised army,
including the comic sailor and marine. The
army arrives at Wu Ping just in time to
save the heroine taking poison to avoid falling
into the hands of a Chinese mob. The mob,
at Soviet instigation, has seized the family
carving-knife and the meatchopper and
declared war on all foreigners, but with
rare discrimination only kills the bad charac-
ters in the plot. There is nothing particu-
larly English about “The Flag Lieutenant.”
It is a British Dominions film, but Holly-
wood is its spiritual home.
“The Love Charm” (Colorart) is dramati-
cally as negligible as shillings in a movie
magnate’s balance-sheet; so the space that
might have been devoted to the story if there
had been one may usefully be given to some
remarks on the tinted action picture as Art.
Dozens of different processes have been tried
for giving the monochrome shadows on the
screen the life and sparkle which natural
colors confer, but, despite loud claims to
the contrary, the results to date have been
singularly poor. From a trained artist’s
point of view the painted movie is as much
like Nature as a railway poster. The colors
are almost invariably too bright. They have
the aggressive cheerio air of colored picture-
postcards eager to be first to catch a pur-
chaser’s eye. Thfc difficulty appears to be
in getting all parts of the picture in focus
at one and the same time. In ordinary
film this doesn’t matter. In fact, it aids
the dramatic effect to throw the background
of a wrecked express out of focus so that the
hero kissing his rescued bit of skirt can be
thrown into appropriate relief. But when you
add color you add the complicated problem
of tone. You can’t throw tones out of focus
—you ,cau only modify their relationships
according to natural laws. In some of the
colored movies the background is as full of
bright and glittering objects as the fore-
ground, and it is difficult to hear the princi-
pals. so to speak, for the discordant uproar
coming from the wings. No doubt the movie
inventors—those anonymous benefactors
who make the fortunes for the Zukors and
the Laskys—will get over this disability as
they have got round or over every obstacle
to date. Whether this will bring the art
millennium any closer is another thing.
The Palette
On the tenth floor of the Federal Mutual
building in Pitt-street. Sydney, Eric G.
Thompson has been holding a show of black-
and-white sketches. It is necessary to
see only a few of the exhibits to
form the opinion that the artist must
be an architect. The drawings are
chiefly architectural passages. If the
work were exhibited as examples of com-
mercial art, it could not help being rated
first-class. It is sharp and decisive; but
it lacks imagination. You feel that it faith-
fully reproduces the originals—most of them
are American —but you question whether,
artistically, the originals were worth repro-
ducing.
“Fourwalls”: Louis McCubbin won the
£lOO prize in the Crouch competition
at Ballarat with his painting “The.
Blue Dress.” He inherited his talent
from Fred McCubbin, able painter and
painstaking teacher. There are some
capital examples of the younger MeCubbin’s
work in the War Museum; he was one of
the numerous band of soldier-artists.
Australia Beautiful, the Home’s Easter
number published by Art in Australia,
merited a welcome. In colors and black-nud-
whites by Hilder, Ileysen, Gruner, Lambert,
Herbert, Ure Smith and sundry others, and
in an article by Randolph Bedford, attention
is directed to a little of Australia’s varied
loveliness. The plates, especially those in
color, are arguments that must take a lot of
dismal writing to dim, and they are fairly
representative of Australia at large. The
reproductions are excellent.
The Inky WajT
“F.S.”: “Brent of Bui Bin,” author of
that sterling Australian yarn “Up the
Country,” still succeeds in preserving his
anonymity despite numerous attempts tp g<yt
behind it. One instalment of “BrackfcnV in.
The Bulletin moved him to write as fol-
lows to Bernard Cronin :
I have only reached the death of Hector Martin
yet, and if you can get yourself to the conclusion as
well as you bring yourself so far, my hearty con-
gratulations. I know that bracken inside out—used
to creep on sheep unawares under its fronds and
catch them by the leg when I was small and found
the speckled turkey eggs in it—and you bring the
very smell of it to one’s nostrils. 1 am the more
interested that you deal with my own end of Aus-
tralia. Incidentally, a first-class “feller” who deals
with our part of Australia is Mary Fullerton. Do
you know her Gippsland novel “People of the Timber
Pelt,” or her exquisite little classic “Bark House
Days,” and now, just recently, her “Australian Bush,”
that is more than a handbook about the bush and its
folk, and to which The Bulletin devoted space in a
manner speaking well for its discernment ?
The writer signs himself “B. of B. 8.,” and
obligingly supplies the address of his pub-
lisher, Blackwood.
'‘LRlage” : Sorry to be quarrelsome, but
Scribbler” <B. 13/3/’29) is misinformed.
I have chapter and verse for saying that
‘ Henry Handel” Richardson came to Aus-
tralia about the end of 1912. For the pur-
poses of “Richard Mahony” she visited the
country towns and districts described in the
first volume; she went to Ballarat, Bendigo
and Maldon, and examined old files of news-
papers. In 1914 a friend who visited her
in London found her deep in the book. She
has not returned to Australia since.
“Ivnib”: When Peacock, who has just
completed 40 years in Vic. Assembly, was
elected Speaker last July, the staff of the
press gallery which offered congratulations
included two men who had heard him move
the adoption of the Address-in-Reply just
after he was returned in 1889. Both are
several years younger than Speacock, but
have had almost as close association with
State politics as he has had.
“Vancie”: A new problem has arisen with
the advent of talking pictures, and the
first lawsuit against producers of “talkies”
is already being fought. The Authors’ League
of America claims that when a writer sells
the movie rights to a novel or play it is
for pictures only, and that the dialogue of
the book cannot be used for “talkies” with-
out further arrangement.
Uramao”: Died in England recently,
Surgeon-Commander Atkinson, leader of the
party that found the dead bodies of Captain
Scott, Dr. Wilson arid Lieut. Bowers in their
tent in Antarctica, in 1912. There was a
striking difference between the rate at which
news travelled in those days and the present
time, when we are regaled every morning
with tlm most trivial daily occurrences of
the Byrd explorers. When the Terra Nova
arrived off Oamaru (M.L.) in February,
1913, the mouths of Dr. Atkinson and Lieut.
Pennall were sealed under an agreement with
London newspaper interests. Maoriland, like
the rest of the world, never knew the tragic
outcome of the Scott expedition till the Lon-
don papers had published it.
Old Sub : In my cubhood days I was
very fond of commas. I was taught economy
in that respect by an editor who had been a
barrister and who still cherished a motley
collectioij of law books. He reproved me one
day for peppering unnecessary commas
through my paragraphs, and I muttered that
1 didn t think it mattered very much where
they were put. “Doesn't it?” he said, and
hauled down a bulky volume of law reports.
“Read that case,” he said, “and learn bet-
ter. It was a case in which a famous
Scottish divine, long domiciled in Canada,
had revisited his native, .village. The local
buster, in the course of a report of his home-
perpetrated the following sentence:
As Dr. McWhangdoodle walked down the
street sober, Scots rushed to their doors lo
witness the notable spectacle.” Dr Me-
lt hangdoodle sued the rag for damages,
and though it was pleaded that a comp, had
transposed a comma that should have fol-
lowed “street,” a jury awarded £lOO damages.
• p{ } re : The U.S.A. has just on 500
journals published in languages other than
rmglish. They are good properties, some
iTvwfTu Last year tlle T. Progresso
A RI ? N r l vas sold for a million
danlars. Australia has several Italian publi-
anv°nf in t !t , WlI! be a lon » time before
like that changes hands for anything
V* .


M
.
i
]
K
IS
ONLY NASH OFFERS
Twin Ignition &
High Compression
Motor
Bijur &
Centralized Chassis
Lubrication
Houdaille
Hydraulic Shock
Absorbers
DEOPLE everywhere are
* recognizing, in the new
Nash “400,” the only car at
moderate price, with all the
luxury and refinement hereto-
fore furnished by very expen-
sive motor cars.
There is nothing to compare
with the performance of the
new “400” Twin Ignition mo-
tor the year’s outstanding
development in power, speed,
smoothness and economy.
All “ 400 ” Advanced Six
Models, moreover, are equip-
ped with the world’s finest sys-
tem of centralized chassis
lubrication — Bijur.
And their longer wheelbases,
double drop frames, rubber
insulated bodies and costly
Houdaille hydraulic shock
absorbers, provide travel
smoothness and relaxation
heretofore afforded only by
very big, very expensive cars.
JOHDHt Hi¥M
▲ A
Ai IN 3Hi
Tourers. Sedans.
Standard Six from .... £375 £4so*
Special Six from £430 £565*
Advanced Six from £63o* £62o*
*lmported body.
Distributors for New South Wales:
WILLSFORD, LTD.,
132-134 Phillip Street,
SYDNEY.
Phone*: 8W2291 (5 lines).
Distributors for Victoria and Tasminia
RICKARDS BROS. PTY., LTD.,
567-573 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
‘Phone: F3I 14.
(4-9490)
Distributors for Quceuzland :
PEELS, LTD.,
407-431 Stanley Street,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
Phone: J 1561.
Distributors for South Australia
and Broken Hill: —
AUTOCARS, LTD.,
58-72 Flinders Street,
ADELAIDE.
'Phone: Central 5500.
Distributors for West Australia:
ERIC MADDREN MOTORS, LTD.,
996 Hay Street,
PERTH.
'Phones; 85610, B 7634.


A WONDERFUL BODY BUILDER
w
MY ADVICE
TO YOU l
AB
TONIC WINE
RELIEVES
EXHAUSTION
ABi
sKrc
TRADE MARK.
REGISTER FD
BUILDS UP
THE SYSTEM
AFTER ILLNESS.
JUflkl
Obtainable everywhere throughout Australia—
CHEMISTS, LICENSED GROCERS, HOTELS, etc.
Suppliers for N.S.W. and Q’land: McLaughlin & Co., Ltd., Comer Sussex and Hay Streets, Sydney.
„ „ West Australia Distillers Agency, Ltd., Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
~, . . J Irvine & McEachern, Brisbane Street, Launceston.
„ „ lasmania | Ferguson & Co., Murray Street, Hobart.
Sole Proprietors: ARNOLD BROS., A.B. Building, 527-529 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
For They are Jolly Good Fellows.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S
SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
A nd so say all of us.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
[l
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Unluckily for the A.J.C., the third day of
the Easter meeting was the wettest of the
year. The decision to race was a pity, for
the track was a bag, and the owners of
Gothic, Honor and other expensive animals
would not risk them on it. In the result
fields were small, and so was the attend-
ance.
The struggle for the Champagne Stakes
proved that Holdfast is no good in heavy
going, and possibly Parkwood, the winner
(at 14 to 1), is not much good in any other
sort of going. His displays on firm ground
this season have been poor, but he hopped
out smartly in the Champagne Stakes and
had everything hopelessly beaten at the dis-
tance, though it took him lmin. to
run the six furlongs. The track was not
so bad when Mollison (evens) won the All-
Aged Stakes. He, too, had his field settled
a furlong from home, though Limerick gained
a trifle, on sufferance, over the last 50
yards; the time was lmin. 45f sec. It was
Mollison’s only race during the meeting and
Limerick’s last. Jones may bring the Maori-
lander over again for the King’s Cup at
Brisbane, and it is to be hoped he will for
the Brisbane public’s sake; but Limerick
will never again be as good as he was a
year ago. Mollison, on the other hand, ought
to be capable of winning at w.f.a. up to a
mile and a quarter for a couple more seasons
at least.
The going doesn’t seem to matter to Stre-
phon. Ho is one of the greatest staying
three-year-olds this Page has seen. Heavy
as it was underfoot, the chestnut with the
great neck and shoulders did not show the
faintest sign of distress after traversing the
Cumberland Stakes distance (a mile and
three-quarters) on Wednesday, and it was
a treat to see him gather up his field in the
A.J.C. Plate on Saturday and finish as if he
would like to go another mile. He galloped
21 miles, hard held, in 3min. 56sec., which
is only Jsee. outside the Randwick record.
It is to be hoped Green won’t weaken on his
determination to send the magnificent colt
to England. Fit and well, in a race like
the Cesarewitch, or even the Ascot Gold Cup,
Strephon would revive the old glory of the
Australian thoroughbred there. His splen-
did stamina is traceable, to a large extent,
to Carbine blood on the dam’s side, and the
same is true of Crueis, the Sydney Cup
winner, who, like Karuma, was not pro-
duced again at the meeting.
The bookmakers grumbled about their
losses on the first day, but the other three
days were very much in their favor. On
Saturday the winners were Rac-ksa (20 to 1),
Honan (25 to 1), Firbolg (15 to 1), Sam-
phire (6 to 1, in a field of eight), Wedding
Eve (7 to 1) and Strephon; and the 1-2 bet-
ting on Strephon’s race was profitable to the
ring. Honan has always been a great horse
for the brotherhood, and his defeat of the
well-backed Loquacious (5 to 1) and Colored
(6 to 1) in the Hangar Handicap was the
crown of an erratic career. Both Loquacious
and Colored (they dead-heated for second
place) were unlucky in running, and so was
Octember, who was nearly knocked down.
Wedding Eve opened favorite for the Final
Handicap but drifted. Valley was backed
for this race but finished nearer last than
first—apparently her successful effort in the
Coogee Handicap on the Wednesday knocked
her out. She came home so wearily in that
race, after making all the running, that
she nearly fell down.
Among the owners Sol Green’s cheque was
the biggest—it amounted to £5500. Cook,
who rode Crueis, got Honan and Firbolg
home on Saturday, so the youngster made a
brilliant entry into the ranks of fully-
fledged jockeys. As compared with last
year’s meeting the total isator receipts
dropped from £233,769 to £209,046.
* * * *
For the City Tatt.’s meeting on Saturday:
Denman Stake's: Wliitta; next, Bonnie
Marjorie.
Novice Handicap : Sir Tarsia ; next, Tara-
punga.
City Tatt’s Cup: Colored; next, Octem-
ber.
Club Welter: Gesto; next, Nut Cup.
THE BACK-SEAT EXPERT.
The Wife: “Well, didn’ I tell you?”
Sandown Park (Vic.) meeting on Saturday
began in drizzling rain, which increased in
volume until horses couldn’t be distinguished
at the back of the course—one of the longest
in Australia. To solace punters, well-backed
prads prevailed. Bookmakers were soaked
with moisture and seethed with annoyance.
However, bigger brethen raked in shekels at
Randwick; it was the stay-at-homes who
suffered.
The three-year-old Tristan, deposing
Fortune’s Bubble from favoritism, annexed
the Maiden Plate, his jockey, Frank Dempsey,
wearing water-tight breeks that he had
acquired in England. The little man handled
Tristan in his best style, beating Railing
narrowly but with a bit in hand. Bred by
E. L. and C. Bailliere, Tristan (Woorak —
Amoureuse) is held on lease by E. S. Bailliere
and trainer R. Bradfield, who were associated
with the ownership of a Hobart Cup winner
(Regret) many years ago. Ernie Bailliere
doesn’t often come down to Melbourne from
the Deniliquin neighborhood. His wife in-
herited oodles of money from her uncle, the
late Lachlan Mcßean, a pastoral baron of the
Tyson type. Dingaan’s Day, imported from
England by former jockey James Hayes, was
expected to start for Tristan’s race, but
R. T. Paterson felt indisposed to risk rhe
Tetratema stallion on a sodden track. Pater-
son, a wholesale manufacturer of leather
goods, did wonderfully w T ell with Roisel,
several times winner of the Australian
Hurdle. H‘e gave 1000 guineas for Din-
gaan’s Day.
Everyone knew Myarin to be a mudlark.
When betting began on the Sandown Plate,
he figured at 6 to 1; but the odds dwindled
down to 5 to 2j and Percy Foster’s candidate
went out a warm favorite. Hampered by
Greener hanging out after entering the
straight—an old habit with this son of
Greenstead —Myarin still scored with con-
summate ease from Crimson. Latter is
owned by the Bourke brothers, who provided
land and money for establishing an up-to-
date racecourse at Pakenliam.
Ronald Cameron, who won a Melbourne
Cup on The Parisian, met with training
reverses at Sandown. He witnessed Lord
Bounty (0 to 4) go down to Mungarra and
I >och Eaton in the Brush Steeplechase. For
the chief flat race he saddled-up old Diamond
Plume with little expectation of success,
but punters made him equal favorite with
Bethanga. At no stage did Diamond Plume
look dangerous. Bethanga humored Jolly
with the lead until a furlong ffom home, and
then bade the field farewell. He is in the
stable of Joe Bird, one of whoso daughters
married “Tich” Wilson, the pilot of Carra-
dale at Randwick.
* * * *
For Epsom on Saturday
Epsom Plate: Margaux; next, Shady
Nook.
April Handicap: Reputed King; next,
Bondi.
* * * *
Zircon, from M.L., brought his owner,
W. Garrett, no better luck in the Great
Eastern Steeple at Oakbank (S.A.) than
did Sir Rosebery last year. That fine chaser
went amiss before the day; this one, after
jumping faultlessly for three rounds of the
severe course, fell at the last fence but one.
Zircon and the Victorian, Glentronie, had
been out in front for most of the 3£ miles;
Laurelmond (Seremond —Laurel Queen) came
at the end aiiej. won easily from the tiring
Glentronie; Extortion, the favorite, was
fifth, and Epergne, last year’s winner, fell
early. Laurelmond has raced on the flat
in N.S.W., and was bought last year, after
winning at Newcastle, by J. W. Richmond
(or “Johnstone”), an Adelaide business-
man. Laurelmond’s div. (for £1) was
£lB Bs.; Glentronie’s, £4 15s.
The Onkaparinga Cup went to Paroodus,
locally-ow r ned and second last year, at his
fourth attempt. He was backed down to
6 to 4. The old chap, who races in D.
Rasheed’s colors nowadays, went on to win
Tatt.’s Cup on Saturday, and this time his
div. was £lO 16s.
* * * *
The annual yearling sales in Sydney saw
buyers much shyer than last year, though
there was no falling off in the quality of
the stock. A full sister of the Saltash —
Wei tea colt which went for 6750gns.
last Easter brought only 280gns. Her
brother has not raced, and has been
gelded and turned out. The Cara-
vels are now in the boom, the highest price
for the week being 2700gns. for a bay colt
by Caravel —Andesine, daughter of The Wel-
kin. The Rossendales were also in favor;
a black colt from Demeter went to a Maori-
land buyer for 1600gns.. while the five by
Winalot’s sire sold totalled 4130gns. This sale
was the last chance of acquiring a Valais
youngster, a fact which probably moved John
Brown, of Newcastle, to pay 2600gns. for
a chestnut colt out of Shepherd Princess, who
looked worth every penny of it. There was
a good deal of interest in the first appearance
of stock by imported Moabite and Legionnaire.
The Moabites scored well, the best price
being ISOOgns. for a bay coit from the Cool-
trim mare Nod, while a brown colt from
Airify realised 1400gns. Legionnaires also
moved briskly, a brown colt from Scintella,
a mare by Linacre, bringing SOOgns.
* * * *
“Mtilgo”: During the hunting contests at
the Sydney Show, the press photographers
were grouped just off the landing at the
sod wall, waiting for busters. Most of the
falls happen there. Whether the cameras
have any effect on the horses or not I don’t
know, but their rather grim purpose is not
very bracing to a young lady rider. “I’d
rather they weren’t there,” said one, after
witnessing a couple of spills while waiting
her turn. “Don’t mind, dear,” said her
friend. “If you tumble you’ll get your photo,
in the papers, and the more spectacular
your somerspult the more notice you’ll get.”
* * * *
“Drover”: Something new in the form of
sweeps was provided by a stranger in a
Queensland sugar town recently, and before
the sports had awakened to the scheme the
stranger had collected quite a few dollars on
the loose. The venture was on a big race,
the entrance fee five bob, but the distribu-
tion of prizes did not hinge on the placed
horses at all. Whoever drew a starter re-
ceived his five shillings back. “What happens
to the Balance?” inquired one wide-awake
sportsman. “Blime,” replied the sweep man,
“that’s promoter’s fees; do yer think a man’s
doin’ it for nothin’?”
* # * *
“Retired Gun”: A neat little joke got
past the stewards at the White City, Totten-
ham, a Melbourne arena devoted to the noble
pastime of dog-racing. Just before a race
in which the betting on one of the tykes
had dropped from level money to tens, a
stickybeak had a look at the muzzle worn
by the drifter. The throat strap was pulled
so tightly that the bound could barely
breathe, much less gallop. Under the cir-
cumstances the heads decided it was a fair
thing to cancel the poor pup’s entry and call
all bets off.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Another member of the “Kid” family, Fili-
pino Along, made his appearance at Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night in opposition to
Archie Hughes, and gained a points decision
at the end of 15 rounds. Early in the fight
it looked as if victory would go to the Sydney
lad by means of a k. 0., a weighty left rip
to the body making the Filipino look very
sick, while heavy uppercuts in close jerked
his head back painfully. From the sixth
round onward Along piled up a lot of points
with a snappy straight left. The local lad
gave the dusky boy a torrid time in the last
two rounds, but could not make up the lee-
way. Each boxer weighed in at Bst. 131 b.
Footbrawl
“Shrewsbury”: England, which has had
rather a bad spin in the Rugby inter-
nationals, got a bit of its own back in
Paris the other day by beating France, at
Colombes, by 16 to 6. Possibly the most
trying ordeal which has to be faced in a
match of this sort is the convention that
the captains of the respective teams should
embrace with kisses in the French fashion
at the conclusion of the match. To the
Frenchman, that sort of thing is a matter
of course. To the man of British stock, the
practice is repugnant. The skipper of one
famous international team from this side of
the equator once complained to me that he
not only had to kiss the skipper of the oppo-
sition But the umpire as well. I have never
believed the story. Who would kiss an
umpire, anyway?
* * * *
“Lao-dah” : That the Asiatic is as ready
as the Westerner to spend his Saturday
afternoons staring at a few compatriots
playing a game was exemplified in a striking
manner at the Shanghai Stadium not long
ago. The game was between Chinese and
foreign Soccer teams, and just before the
match was due to start, although the ground
was filled, it was reckoned that 15,000 still
wanted to get in. The police were called and
closed the ground. It was then discovered
that some of the players were marooned on
the outside of the crowd, and the only way
to get them in was to let the crowd in with
them. The gates were opened, and an amaz-
ing scene ensued, 30 or 40 being trampled
underfoot before the job was done. The
Chinese, who are always ready to make an
international affair of anything, lodged a
protest with the British authorities, alleging
discrimination because many Chinese were
injured, while no foreigners were hurt!
(Continued on page Jjl.)
TENNIS-FACE.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN .]
“A well-known English referee warns women tennis
players of the dangers of ‘tennis face,’ the do-or-die
look which may permanently harden the soft contours
of a girl’s features.”
She was a peach when first beneath her
spells
I came, with eyes as soft as a gazelle’s,
A smoothly white, angelic brow above,
And lips that seemed to have been framed
for love.
Her shy, sweet smile was like some rare
caress;
H'er every movement told of gentleness.
And now —ah, me ! —her charm dissolves
apace—
She’s getting tennis-face!
From game to game, from strenuous set to
set,
She smashes like Suzanne, or guards the
net
Lynx-eyed, or leaps and gallops hither and
yon
As though the fate of nations hung thereon,
(lone are the days I watched her flying feet
And proudly wondered if she weren’t as
fleet
As Artemis was featured in the chase —
It’s bringing tennis-face.
Her racket she may drop, her bandeau doff
At eve, but there’s a look she can’t put off.
Determination grim is in that glance
And ruthless, unremitting vigilance,
Such as Iloratius and his cobbers wore
What time they held the bridge and wiped
the floor
With Tuscan champions. But in Sylvia’s
case
It’s merely tennis-face.
Time was when maids on sporting prowess
bent
In placid archery found full content,
Or stood on quiet lawns in dainty groups
And tapped slow-moving balls through
skimpy hoops,
Games that ne’er made the gamecock’s do-
or-die
Expression gather in a dovelike eye
And settle there, to banish charm and grace.
She’s getting tennis-face!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


What the Guillotine Test
on Golf Balls proves c*
r
rn
r r
rr
r~rr.
0.
vr
VC
m
(TSJ-p
Ij?.'
m
n
/
1
5
The special Guillotine Machine which
Is simply, a blunt weighted knife which
drops from a height about 2 feet on to
the ball, having about the same effect
(u a badly topped shot.
KR.O-FLITE
M U LTI~DOT
GOLF BALLS’
are the only balls that cannot be cut through
r Phe illustrations above show a Spalding Kro-Flite ball with two other
well-known makes which have been through the Guillotine test —ail
three balls having had exactly the same treatment. The picture speaks
for itself.
Where the other two balls are absolutely cut through, the Spalding
Kro-Flite has only two small dents on the cover.
THE REASON FOR THE STRENGTH OF THE KRO-FLITE
BALL IS GIVEN IN THE THREE ILLUSTRATIONS BELOW.
The Semi-Liquid Core—
an exclusive Spalding feature, is a small hollow
sphere of rubber which is filled with a thick
semi-liquid substance and frozen hard, to permit
of the rubber thread being wound tightly
round it.
The tighter this thread Is wound, the further
the ball will carry. An extremely tight-wound
centre is known as a high-power, or high com-
•pression centre.
The frozen core naturally thaws to its semi-
liquid state again—and an extremely rcsilieof
centre results-
Machine Winding.
Tht solid rubber core makes a less resilient
ball The soft centre requires (b'e first winding
to be done by hand. Maximum tension cannot
be applied until the centre is partially built
«P
But the Spalding method is to freeze the senJi-
liquid core just before it goes to the winding
machines. The rubber thread can then be
wound on at maximum stretch from the very
beginning—and a perfect sphere is built up. By
the very nature of this winding process, the
core must be perfectly centred and remain so
throughout the life of the baiL
rr
rr
r<r
rs
Vulcanised Cover.
All golf ball covers are made chiefly of batata-
Until the Spalding invention of the vulcatiised
cover* the only differences were in the mark-
ings. The result, that this cover, like the
.rubber itself, is shock-absorbing rather than
shock-resisting. It has an unusual resiliency.
And because it is both resilient and TOUGH, a*
high-powered centre can be used which gives
the ball DISTANCE and a sweet feel off the
face of the dub.
FROM ALL PROFESSIONALS AND SPORTS STORES
(ffiaJ&Mq rf&xrt,
» • / (AUSTRALASIA) 9 PTY LTD
FACTORY: SUNSHINE, VICTORIA.
New Multi>Dot
'ot
'LSI
rr<
r\\
rrr
rrr
rrr
rrr
rrr
r/
J (jotfiMj Sensation/
The fac-similc of markings
herein, illustrates the latest
thing in golf balls. If the
new ball is placed alongside
the old style at. say. putting
distance from the eye. nine
people out of ten will see the
new as larger than the old. This is purely an optical
illusion; but, bringing out the sphericity of the ball
as the new marking does, makes it easier to hit. and
discounts, to some extent, the mental effect of
“cuppy” lies.
A majority of golfers make the mistake of looking
down on the ball, rather than behind it. It will be
noted from slow-motion pictures, how all the great
golfers focus their attention at the back of the ball
The Multi-dot always presents a spot for concentra-
tion behind the ball. Look at that spot when
hitting, and a better shot will result.
Multi-dot balls are easily identified on the fair-way
Four players using four different colors, can pick their
ball ten yards away.
In bright sunlight, and against the white sand of
traps, the Multi-dot is far less glaring to the eye. and
more easily defined.
As the ball ages in play, the Multi-dot serves in
contrast, and preserves a certain ‘'appearance” in the
old ball.
Try it, and be convinced !


RIN-TIN-TIN
w
the
famous
Screen
Actor
is fed
exclusively
on
Ken-T -Ration
THE DOG FOOD SUPREME
FREF—Sample Tin sent to any address
in the Commonwealth.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB, P. 0. Box 1821, Melbourne
21.
EARN ALL YOU CAN—
SAVE ALL YOU CAN—GIVE ALL YOU CAN
Such was the good advice of John Wesley. You are, of course, entitled
to earn all you can, and no doubt are bending all your energies in that
direction.
Nevertheless, what you save will, in the long run, probably count for
more than what you earn.
Use the easy saving plan. Open a Commonwealth Savings Account,
and be faithful to it, for the sake of your future needs and that you
may be able to give when it is your duty to give.
<flbmmonwealtl) Savings JBank of Australia
'Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
Depend On
Wunderlich Quality
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings
Wunderlich Roofing Ti les
Wunderlich “Durabestos” Building
Sheets
Wunderlich Metal Shopfronts
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
For Forty Years, Manufacturers of Quality
Products for Ceilings, Walls,
and Roofs
Footbrawl
“Fitzcray”; The Victorian football season
is looming in the near distance, and the usual
rush to the life-insurance offices by pros-
pective umpires is setting in. The Asso-
ciation opens its programme on April 20,
and, in spite of the inroads of the League,
promises to flourish as briskly as ever. A
feature of the last few weeks has been the
number of ex-Association players who are
returning to their old clubs, after enticement
by the Delilah of the League, this being par-
ticularly marked in the case of Northcote,
which the League has been making a stren-
uous attempt to swallow. The League starts
operations a week after the senior body, and
as far as can be seen last year’s boom is
likely to be eclipsed. There has been a big
importation of country players, Carlton hav-
ing acquired quite a bunch.
* * * *
“C.R.8.”: In these days of profiteering
sports associations the Tasmanian Football
League is a notable exception. For years,
per cent of the gross takings at the gates
have been handed over to four deserving
charities. Last year £7OO was distributed
out of u total of £GOOO. In addition a small
weekly paper charges a penny extra, which
the public cheerfully pays, and these pennies
bring in nearly £lOO for injured players.
* * $ *
“Gate”: The N.S.W. Rugby League has
its lamps all trimmed for the official opening
of the season on April 20, and the impend-
ing departure of an Australian team for
England half-way through the season adds
a lot of interest to the grade competitions.
The inter-State matches with Queensland in
Sydney are set down for June 1, 3 and 8,
while it is hoped to polish off the return
meeting in Queensland by the end of the
same month. The Union will open on May
20, and has a heavy programme on hand
with the visits of the All Blacks, who will
play in Brisbane and Melbourne, as well as
Sydney. The big Union games will be fielded
at Sydney Cricket Ground, the League being
content to play in its own back yard at
the Sports Ground, which it has improved
out of all recognition.
# * * *
“Old Q.”: We are all wondering up here
what will be the outcome of the Donnybrook
between the Queensland Rugby League and
its offshoot, the Brisbane Rugby League. It
looks as if the Q.R.L. is feeling that the
situation is getting out of hand, for it is
suggesting the meeting of the “Australian”
Board of Control in Brisbane to deal with
it. The bright sparks who are running the
State League consider that the N.S.W. dele-
gates will meet the views of the Queensland
delegates, who, of course, are Q.R.L. men,
and that the Brisbane rebels will be cast
into the outer darkness of amateurism, or
something equally horrible. They might bo
wrong. The B.R.L. lias retained most of
its old clubs, containing some of the State’s
best players. If these are blacklisted, the
outlook for the N.S.W. and Queensland side
which is to visit England this year will be
gloomy, in view of the indifferent display
against the English visitors last season.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: The visit of the abo. team from
Palm Islands to Brisbane (B. 3/4/’29) was
a great success, and the form shown by the
original inhabitants enabled them to beat
the lighter-colored opposition in one of their
two matches. There was a mirth-provoking
finale to the second game, which the visitors
won. Small boys by the hundred rushed
the victors with autograph books. Unhappily
only one or two of the team could write,
and some of them didn’t know enough
English to understand what their tormentors
were after.
* * * *
“Gabba” : Harry Sunderland, secretary of
the Queensland Rugby League and a Queens-
land repi-esentative on the League Board of
Contr-01, suggests a deferred-pay system for
the next team of professional footballers to
visit England. As is well known, players with
the League teams receive a weekly payment
—it was £4 a week in the case of the last side
—and a bonus on return when the profits
have been allotted. The idea is well worth
consideration, and will probably be adopted.
Sunderland was not on such sure ground
when he said, in support of his suggestion,
that “many” of the Rugby Union Wara-
tahs found difficulty in getting employment
after their return. That was true in only
one or two cases, and they weren’t kept wait-
ing long, thanks to the magnificent reputa-
tion the side built up off the field and on.
Many employers not only kept jobs open for
the absentees, but paid them varying amounts
in respect of salaries. The writer is per-
sonally acquainted with one man who not
only drew his full screw during the tour,
but was given a very handsome testimonial
by his firm into the bargain.
* * * *
“Kewpie”: New faces will abound in the
M.L. Rugby team that lands at Sydney in
mid-June. The South African tour was the
last fling of quite a number of All Black
veterans, and marriage is claiming more of
them every month. Few Maorilanders run
football risks once they have taken the
fatal step. Mark Xicholls is retiring' and
so (for the third time) is the famous A. E.
Cooke, whose absence from the South African
team caused the country to put on mourning.
But the lack of stars last season allowed
young blood to win a place in represen-
tative games, and there seems much material
about. Setford, a highly promising Hawkes
Bay youngster, is a lad who will go a long
way.
* * * *
“Everton”: The closing of the Northern
collieries in N.S.W. has given the Soccer
League something of a knock back. The
League was formed a year ago with the
frank intention of paying the men who
played in its clubs for the toil they indulged
in in their hours of ease, in frank opposition
to the Association, which only paid its
amateur players w'hen no one was supposed
to be looking. Most of the League clubs are
situated in the Maitland-Newcastle coal
district, and the result of the closing of the
collieries has been that gates have fallen
away, and that there is no spare brass to
pay the players.
The Ins and Outs
“Shrewsbury”: The English cricketers,
now on the ocean wave, will not have much
respite from the game after landing. In
addition to the county programme beginning
early in May, they will have to tackle a
formidable South African team. Profiting,
no doubt, by Australia’s experience, the
Afrikanders have heaved a lot of the old
brigade to the sharks. Of the last side
to visit England only the skipper, H. W.
Taylor, and 11. G. Deane remain among the
stars of other days, though several young-
sters tried against Staniforth’s side in
1020-27 have been given a second chance.
PASSING IT ROUND.
“Gonna give the sharks a treat?”
“No; gonna give the sheiks a turn!”
Eight of the selections are 25 or under, and
the team includes two fast bowlers of whom
much is expected, Ochse and Quin. The
latter hails from Kimberley, and the Eng-
lishmen against whom he played as a school-
boy were greatly impressed with him. Ochse
comes from Graaf Reinet in the Cape East-
ern province.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: I note that the well-liked
Percy Chapman, with the responsibility of
skippering the English XI off his shoulders,
became his own care-free self in a cricket
match in Maoriland the other day, when he
walloped the bowling to the extent of 107,
which included 16 fours. It is interesting in
this connection to consider the modern con-
vention that a batsman must lose all or
most of his scoring capacity when he takes
up the burden of directing affairs. Notable
modern instances are Jones, Gilligan, Doug-
las and Chapman himself. At the same time
I cannot recall that the cares of skippering
an All England team ever gave “W.G.”
occasion to exhibit the inferiority complex.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Victorian cricket heads have
been discussing the advisability of instituting
a school for colts. Some of them seem to be
for it, and some against. Hugh Trumble,
whose opinion counts for something, backs
the idea. He suggests an indoor winter
school, such as those conducted in England
by G. A. Faulkner, the great South African
batsman, and our old friend Patsy Hendren.
On the other hand, one notable has made the
rather extraordinary assertion that “no
coach in the world would make'a cricketer of
a youth who is not naturally a good
cricketer.” I fancy he will find few to agree
with him. Certainly stereotyped coaching
methods are apt to produce stereotyped bats-
men—and bowlers too, in a lesser degree.
But coaching by an expert does correct
the faults of method which, unless nipped in
the bud, lead on to mediocrity.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The close of the cricket sea-
son has come as something of a merciful
relief, but a glance over the averages in
the big games may be worth while. Ham-
mond headed the English batting list with
91.3, figures which were never approached
by an English player in Australia
before. ,7. C. White led the bowlers
witli 65 wickets at an average of 22.6, a
feat which stamps him as one of the finest
left-hand slow bowlers Australia has seen
since the days of Bobby Peel. Bradman
broke all previous Australian records with an
aggregate of 1690 and an average of 93.3.
It is when we consider our bowling figures
that the tears begin to fall. The indomit-
able Grimmett collected 64 wickets, double
the total of his nearest rival, Ironmonger,
but they cost 36.2 runs each.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot” : Dr. ,T. C. Gregory, the burly
Yorkshireman who skippered the English
tennis team lately in Australia, considers that
America and South Africa, as well as Aus-
tralia, are rapidly bringing on a lot of young
players whose promise far exceeds that of
anyone in sight in Britain. Of Australia
he says that though there is no outstanding
champion at present it is the best tennis
country in the world, on the average of the
first 50 players. That is possibly true, but
one would like to see the rise of someone
with the infallibility of Norman Brookes in
his prime.
* * * *
“Delia”: Some ingenious individual in
England has been suggesting that umpires,
especially those officiating in tennis matches,
should undergo an
eyesight test before
being allowed to
get in their fell
work. I would
suggest a breath
test also. In the
final of the Billy-
cumdilly champion-
ship recently I
smashed a full toss
which wont well
over the head of
my opponent, who
reached up with
his racquet and
just tipped it over
the wire netting ac
the end of the
court. As he was
standing on the
service line, I ap-
pealed to the um-
pire, claiming that
he had tried to play it,
with “How’s that?”
“It’s a shicksher,”
he retorted, and,
falling off the table
on which he was
perched, gathered
the net round him-
self and told us to
call him at shicks
next' morning.
“Cut Shot”: Details of the coming Davis
Cup tourney show that the first rotmd must
be finished by May 7. the second a fort-
night later and the third by .Tune 11. The
fourth round is to end by .Tune 23, while
the interzone final will be played over the
three days July 19-21. The challenge round
at Paris will take place on July 26 and the
two following days. At this distance it is
difficult to see any team but the U.S. reach-
ing the challenge round. Perhaps Italy may
spring a surprise. Australia, of course, is
doing the Achilles act—sulking in its tent.
The Nineteenth Hole
“The McHaggis”: Tests by experts of the
proposed new golf-ball, which is larger and
lighter than that at present in use, indicate
that the long hitters are due to lose from
three to four yards in a hundred with the
new contraption. The latter is much lighter
and more difficult to control in high winds,
which should be another handicap to the
hit-’em-hard-and-trust-to-luck school, while it
will call for still greater skill in the con-
trolled shots through the green. Altogether,
the innovation does not seem calculated to
appeal to the average golfer, who finds that
the present ball is quite enough of a tax
on his ingenuity and capacity.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: Something new in the golfing
world was the introduction of a totalisator
at a big professional golf competition on an
English seaside course the other day. Tickets
were half a crown, the club taking 10 per
cent. The winner turned up in the veteran
Duncan, who paid his backers 225. Abe
Mitchell and Charles Whitcombe tied for
second place and returned 6s. to their
admirers.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: The country-club idea bor-
rowed from America has lately gripped
Melbourne, and is being enthusiastically
fostered by estate-agents and subdivisional
experts everywhere within a day’s motoi
drive of the metropolis. The method is to
buy up an area of land primarily of value
for golfing purposes. A clubhouse and some-
times bowling-greens, tennis-courts and swim-
ming-baths arc provided. The residential
portion surrounding this exclusive centre of
amusement is laid out in roads and gardens.
The owner of a block has to subscribe to
several pages of covenants. lie may not
build a cinema, shop, factory or other sordid
edifice on his property, and the purchase of
the land involves membership of the club
and part responsibility for its finances.
Above all, he must give evidence of high
social standing. TWo or' three such pro- .
jects have been so successful that a boom
period followed by a bust is confidently
expected.
* * * *
“Carnoustie”: The revived interest in
challenge matches between leading profes-
sional golfers for substantial stakes is a re-
minder that they were common in the days
of the Morris family and other giants of the
past. They fell into disrepute owing to the
barrackers, who often staged scenes which
would have made a Melbourne cricket critic
hang his head in shame. Matters came to a
head at one match on the Musselburgh links,
between Tom Morris and Willie Park. Here
Morris’s ball mysteriously disappeared at a
critical stage, and the situation became so
threatening that the umpire stopped play and
divided the stakes.
* sic * *
“Divot Digger” : Though the personnel of
the side is yet to be settled, most of the
arrangements in connection with the visit of
a team of British golfers a*rc well in hand.
The visitors are expected here in September,
and will come under the terms prevailing for
the Walker Cup, the big annual match be-
tween American and English golfers, which
provide that travelling and accommodation
charges be allowed to the players only when
taking part in matches as a team. This
would prevent them playing as individuals
in the Australian championships, in which
their appearance is ardently desired. The
matter will have to be adjusted. With a
Maoriland team over for the Kirk Windeyer
Cup about the same time, the chance of a
triangular match between the Britons, Aus-
tralia and M.L. is too good to miss.
* * * *
“Wanganui”: The Maoriland golf authori-
ties are very keen on regaining the Kirk
Windeyer Cup, lost to Australia at Welling-
ton last year largely owing to lack of practice
on the part of a couple of players chosen.
This time no one will have a chance of selec-
tion on his reputation only. He will have
to show good performances in matches prior
to the departure of the team, as well as evi-
dence that he has been hard at work polish-
ing up his game in practice.
$ * * *
“Brassey”: The British amateur cham-
pionship opens on May 7 on the Royal St.
George’s links at Sandwich. There promises
to be a good entry from the Dominions, as
well as the usual American contingent.
Maoriland will be represented by L. H.
Campbell, of the Christchurch club, while
South Africa is sending T. G. McLelland and
W. S. Bryant, amateur champions of the
Union in 1925 and 1926 respectively. If
any Australian intends to enter he is keep-
ing it a dark secret.
* * * *
“F.F.”: The American craze for golf shows
no sign of diminishing, and new clubs are
hard put to it to find space in many parts
of the country. One of the American golf
journals has recently computed the number
of players in the United States, and the
amount of money they spend on the game.
The figures are given as 3,000,000 men and
1,000,000 women, who get rid of £200,000,000
annually on the game. In addition, there
is some £300,000,000 sunk in club-houses,
which sounds high. Still, the Westchester
Biltmore club, in New York State, cost
£200,000, and there are probably others which
run it close.
(Continued on next page.)


COMMONWEALTH 5*7. LOAN FOR STATES
AMOUNT ASKED FOR, £7,000,000. - - INTEREST, 5£ p.c. - - PRICE OF ISSUE, PAR.
PERIOD OF LOAN, 10 YEARS .... INTEREST PAYABLE 15th JANUARY AND 15th JULY.
The Loan is issued by the Commonwealth Government on behalf of the Governments of the States.
Subscriptions may be paid in full at the time of application, or by instalments—the last of .which is payable on 4th June, 1929.
Interest will be paid from the date of lodgment of moneys.
Bonds, payable to bearer, or Stock may be purchased. Bonds will be issued for £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO or £lOOO. Stock will be inscribed for £lOO
and multiples of £lO above £lOO.
After 15th July, 1929, holders of Bonds amounting to £lOO or over can exchange them, if they so desire, for Stock of this issue, and holders of
Stock can exchange it for Bonds of this issue.
Interest will be subject to Commonwealth Income Tax, but free of all State Income Taxes.
Applications may be lodged at any Bank, State Savings Bank, Money Order Post Office, or with any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
The Treasurer reserves the right to close the Loan at any time and to refuse subscriptions.
Commonwealth Treasury,
Canberra.
2]
EARLE PAGE,
Treasurer.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: Records for a continuous run of
a motor-car were broken last week, when
Don Kaye made new figures for all the dis-
tances from five to fifty kilometres. The
run was on Brooklands track, and
Kaye drove a 4000-c.c. supercharged 12-
cylinder Sunbeam. In spite of a raging gale
he cut out his 50 kilometres at 123.26
m.p.h.
* * * *
“Disc Clutch”: America’s one and only
long-distance track race for motor-cars, the
Indianapolis 500, which will be run early
in June, will be the last restricted to the use
of 1500 c.c. machines. The International Com-
mission recently adopted a new policy with
regard to the type of cars to be used in the
European Grand Prix races, and the American
Automobile Association has followed the lead,
though the new regulations will not come
into force in America until next year. Under
them competitors may go back to the old
big engines, the limit of piston displacement
being 6000 c.c. The new restrictions will
apply to body dimension™ and equipment.
The change has been based on the fact that
the small capacity engines of to-day can de-
velop even higher speeds than the big fellows.
* * * •>
“Sprocket”: The dispute as to whether
Jack Standen, the Olympic cyclist, who
repudiated his "bond on his return from
Europe and became a is entitled
to ride while under the suspension imposed
on him by the.international body has been
settled. Standen contended that pending his
appeal he was entitled to ride. The Sydney
organisation to which he was contracted
thought otherwise, and it would seem, rightly.
A cable from the union Cycliste Internationale
last week stated definitely that Standen
cannot ride in the interval before the hearing
of his appeal. The appeal may not be sus-
tained, in which case the ex-amateur will not
be able to ride until May in next year. Stan-
den’s case is of interest, since on it depends
the whole question as to whether an
amateur’s undertaking that he will remain
a lilywhite is enforceable in law. The
writer, personally, doesn’t think it is.
# * * *
“Toe-clip”: The racing bicycle, in all
important essentials, reached its limit of
development in the ’nineties, and since that
time there has been but little improvement
in times for unpaced records and racing
contests. A mile in two minutes—3o miles
an hour —is the standard now as it was then.
The only notable change in the meantime has
been in the matter of raising the gear ratio.
Arthur Zimmerman, who flourished in the
’nineties, and was seldom beaten, used
a gear of 65, which meant that when
sprinting he had to put in about 320
leg-strokes a minute. His ankle action
was marvellously graceful. Then came
the era of high gears, and small,
slender men of the Zimmerman type had to
yield place to such physical giants as
“Plugger Bill” Martin and the Arnsts. For
a long while 96 was regarded as the mini-
mum gear for track-racing—it may be
still, for all I know—and I have known
men, not in the first flight, who pushed a
gear as high as 140. There hasn’t been
any corresponding gain in speed, save behind
pace. It might pay some of the modern
knights of the toe-clip to experiment with
lower ratios, one great tactical advantage
of which is that they enable a rider to
launch a sprint at a second’s notice, whereas
on a big gear it must be worked up
gradually.
* * * *
“Joystick”: That English seaplane built
for the Schneider Cup (B. 20/3/’29) is not
going to have things all its own way. Con-
sider the French entry. The specially-
designed engine has 18 cylinders in three
blocks of six each, these forming an inver-
ted T. The monoplane is being built round
this, the roots of the wings being the two
horizontal blocks of cylinders. The engine
is designed to develop 1200 h.p., and the
Frenchmen expect to beat 350 m.p.h. So far,
the speed record in the air is the English
315 m.p.h., but the machine that did that
is now a mere trial horse.
Miscellaneous
“The Gaffer” : The Stawell Gift, last relic
of the glorious days of professional pedes-
trianism, was won by a N.S.W. lad fx*om
Tocumwal, named Hearn. Like many who
have been slippery between the tapes, he
is a printer. He was on 10| yards, and was
clocked at 1115-16 sec trifle worse than
evens. Curious how the fame of this par-
ticular event still lingers. One competitor
came all the way out from Scotland to give
it a go —the first prize is £250, ye ken.
* * * *
“Billy the Goose”: Well, ’ere I am,
well ’n trooly stuck at Stawell, er Vic
dorp they tell me some uv them Lin’seed
coves wot drors f’r yer comes fr’m. Me
quest wusn’t art, er course, but bunce —me
’avin’ bin’ in ther spike-shoe line orl these
years, woddelse d’yer think? I got ther dink
Musso up at Innisfail, so I disguised meself
as er bag er sugar, an’ there bein’ no strike
on, got on board. Wot I ’ad ter put up
with arfter ther cow they corl firs’ mate
struck me would sully yer pages. 'Owever,
I landed in Stawell o.k. and give ther sweet
pea wot’d bin tipped me ther once over.
’E looks ther goods orl rights an’ after
watchin’ ’im at work an’ puttin’ ther fact
that ’e come orl ther way out fr’m Scotland
fer ther spin inter consideration, I flops me
dough—l ’ad ter roll er coupler Eyetalian
canecutters ter get it, too —on ’im. I will
say ’e gave it er good go, but tlier oppersi-
tion was too strong. That is, they watched
their blokes too tight. I was waitin’ round
orl ther mornin’ with er packet er tacks,
but never er screw uv their, shoes could I
get. A tight lotter cows, them Vies.
* * * *
“Spike”: Looking at a picture of Tom
Miles, the Queensland sprinter, I noticed
that lie, like all his kind in this generation,
does not use the “corks” which the knights
of the cinders in the old days used io
consider essential as an aid to a runner in
sprint and distance evonts alike. These
“corks,” oval-shaped and held in the palm
of the hand with an elastic band to slip
over the back, were once sold in every
sporting outfitter’s shop. Every runner now-
adays goes at it with the hands wide open,
That was anathema in the days when Charley
Samuels and Jim McGarrigal were setting
the stopwatches on fire.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: It brings a touch of regret
to hear that the famous Queen’s Club
ground, in West Kensington, where so many
of the annual clashes between Oxford and
Cambridge athletes have taken place, has
been delivered to the tennis players. The
running track on which B. R. Wise, to
count only one Australian, put up records
has been, torn up, and the grandstand is to
go, too. A cherished recollection of this
stand was the query of an indignant indivi-
dual reading from his programme of the
Oxford and Cambridge Rugby match. “Full
back, Forsayth, of King’s School, Parra-
mattah,” he bleated. “Wheali on earth is
Parra mattah ?”
* * * *
“Heel and Toe”: The go-as-you-please
contest across America from Los Angeles to
New York, inaugurated last year by a
misguided millionaire named Pyle, has been
revived this year, and several hundred
lunatics have started on the long trek. An
innovation this time is a concert party of
21 “debutantes” who will follow the race
and cheer the contestants up with their
warbling each night. It seems a ripping
idea, for the average man would sooner run
50 miles than listen to amateur actors.
Provided the girls keep behind the party,
there ought to be some new records put
up.
a|e * ♦ *
“Amateur Pro.”: The meeting of the
N.S.W. Olympic Council in Sydney brought
to light the fact that there were no minutes
available recording last year’s activities in
connection with the organisation and dis-
patch of the team for the Olympiad.
There was no balance-sheet showing the
distribution of the money collected, though
“MR. W. CARLETON,” owner of Crucis,
whose victory in the Sydney Cup was
the surprise of the meeting and the
salvation of the bookmakers.
this has been fully accounted for, having
been banked as received. The resignation
of Leslie Duff, secretary of the Council and
manager of the team to Amsterdam, was
received, and J. C. Allison was elected in
his place. There was interest in the Coun-
cil’s resolve to regalvanise the Amateur
Sports Federation, which is badly in need of
a brush-up. Several sports organisations
have grown very sloppy in the matter of
their members’ amateur status.
“Swan”: Westralia is settling down to
celebrate the State’s centenary, and in the
carnival of sport attaching to it the inter-
state eight-oar race bulks big. The Gropers
hold the King’s Cup, and are very keen on
retaining it. This year most of the crew's
from the other States will be on the local
water early, and should have no complaints
of lacking preparation. Those from Victoria,
N.S.W. and Tasmania are due in Perth on
April 22; that will give them a fortnight be-
fore the race, which is billed for May 4.
Queensland is not competing this year, and
the issue would seem to lie between Wests
and the Mosman eight from N.S.W. Pearce
is rowing in the sculls. Here it seems to
be a case of “Eclipse first and the rest no-
where.”
H. R. MILLER, secretary of the N.S.W.
Rugby League, who has the onerous
task of organising a tour of England
by an Australian League team in addi-
tion to his other duties.
“Bow” : Mention of the Oxford-Cambridge
boa trace in The Bulletin the other day
reminds me that if Sydney Uni. has yet to
celebrate the centenary of its rowing battle
with rival universities it can go back a long
way. The first race of the kind was rowed
on the Yarra in 1870, and is notable for the
fact that there were then only two Australian
universities in existence, Sydney and Mel-
bourne. It was a four-oar event, and the
Sydney crew included Edmund Barton and
R. C. Teece, two lads that were to make
names for themselves. The stroke was J. H.
Fitzhardinge, later a N.S.W. Judge, and the
forebear of that magnificent oarsman Roger
Fitzhardinge, who stroked the Australian
eight that won the Grand Challenge Cup at
Henley in 1012. The first eight-oar race was
in 1888, again on the Yarra, and among the
Sydneysiders were T. Rolin and A. Thom-
son, each destined to sport a Judge’s wig.
* * * *
“Loom”: The Queensland championship
regatta, held this year at Rockhampton, saw
that tried and proven crew the Wide Bay
eight again lift the title. Wide Bay has
represented the State on several occasions
in the King’s Cup, though the crew will be
unable to undertake the long trip to West-
ralia this season. The famous club turned
out a ladies’ crew' for a four-oared event for
the sex, and the Maryborough misses duly
came home “on the bit.”
* * * *
“Blade”: One of the most important row-
ing events of the N.S.W. year, the G.P.S.
championship, is set down for the end of
April, and is to be rowed again on the
Parramatta River. This contest draws
immense crowds, and the course has of late
years become dangerously congested. Recog-
nising that the Parramatta was unsuitable,
the N.S.W. rowing authorities last year
transferred the inter-State race for the King’s
Cup to the Nepean River, at Penrith, and
their example was followed by the controllers
of the inter-State University race. The ques-
tion of a “gate” does not, presumably, enter
into -G.P.S. rowing, as it inevitably does in
the case of the Rowing Association. Why,
then, persist in keeping the event on the
Parramatta, with the attaching risk of
disaster which has threatened more than
once?
« * * *
“Bamboo”: I’m afraid that Australian
polo tour of America (B. 27/3/’29) is as
far off as ever. The immediate obstacle is
a row between Harden, the crack N.S.W.
club, and the Australian polo heads, and the
cause of the trouble is not very clear. Harden
was asked if the club could tackle the
American tour, and replied in the affirmative,
nominating its team. For some reason or
other, the Australian Polo Council withdrew
the nomination, and now the" air is full of
recrimination.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Sprat”: Maoriland is setting out to estab-
lish a sardine-canning industry, and has
imported experts from the Mediterranean as
a preliminary. The shoreward waters of
Australia, like those of Maoriland, teem in
the season with the true sardine. David
Stead and other fisheries experts have been
pointing this out for years. But no one in
Australia has ever made a move to exploit
this natural wealth.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Pipeclay seems likely to be
a profitable export from South Aus. A Mel-
bourne firm, liking the sample, is taking 100
tons as a trial order, with the prospect of big
increase. This lot comes from Yorke's
Peninsula, where, as on Kangaroo Island
and the Coorong, there is any quantity of the
stuff.
* * * ■*
“Wanchai”: Two-pound ten has now to
be paid by Melbourne-Launceston saloon
passengers for the privilege of spending
what is usually a rough night at sea. A
Tas. line used to carry them for ss. single,
7s. (Id. return.
* * * *
“H.E.”: Queensland has embarked on the
manufacture of glycerine. Chauvel and his
men will wish the venture success, for gly-
cerine is the basis of all the important high
explosives and their countless derivatives;
most of the activities of the British block-
ade of Germany were aimed at stopping
supplies of the oils and fats from which
glycerine is taken. Apart from that, there
are literally a thousand manufactures, from
tobacco to textiles, in which glycerine plays
a part. Brisbane is the seat of the new
enterprise, and the plant installed is as up-
to-date as money can make it.
«! Sit * *
“C.Q.”: Although Cameron, of the Mel-
bourne Tramways Board, is a whole-
hearted advocate of his own particular brand
of transport, he will shortly be compelled
to provide a demonstration for the benefit
of the opposition. Thirty motor-’buses are
to be put on while the Collins-street route is
in process of being electrified. They are
antiquated models, however, so the test will
hardly be a fair one.
* * * *
“Wonai”: Tell “Orio” (B. 27/2/’29) that
Papuan desiccated cocoanut has been sold
in Australia for the last two years by the
Commonwealth Copra people, who, under
the management of W. H. Wright, produced
a sample as good as, if not better than, the
Ceylon product. And the workers had no
help from Cingalese skilled labor either.
They are little Papuans from Dobu Island.
* * * *
“Ho Ivai”: The Economic Bulletin of
the Republic of China has some interesting
details of the manufacture of tooth-brushes
in that land. The handles are made of beef
bones, mostly from Australia, these being
the best quality; the brushes are fabricated
of Chinese pig bristles, Chinese horsehair,
or goathair from Australia. In short, we
export the material for handles and brushes
and import the finished article!
* * * *
“Brian Boru”: Someone recently wrote an
appreciation of the new Irish coinage, which
features a salmon, a horse, a cow, a wolf-
hound, a hare, a hen, a sow and a woodcock
on the coins from half a crown downwards
to the farthing. In Ireland they are already
reckoning up their daily gains in this wise:
“Two sows is a hin, t’ree hins is a hare, two
hares is a dog, an’ two dog 3 is a cow.”
$ * * *
“W.P.D.”: I have just seen a square yard
or so of artificial silk made from a mixture
of 80 per cent, of megass (sugar-cane waste)
and 20 per cent, of cotton lint. The fabric
called zanthette is so like genuine silk that
it would deceive any but an expert. It has
the sheen and “handle” of pure silk, and as
the piece I saw had been repeatedly washed
it will evidently stand wear and tear. The
process is the invention of W. Brown, B.Sc.,
and consists in reducing the megass to a
pulp, then treating it with chemicals and
mixing with a coagulating substance, until
it takes the consistency of treacle, when it
is forced through fine tubes and becomes a
filament which, when further treated, closely
resembles high-grade wool-tops. This can be
spun into yarn and woven or knitted in the
ordinary way. There is not so far in Aus-
tralia the proper spinning machinery for
this yarn, and it has been necessary to send
it abroad. It can, however, be woven or
knitted by local manufacturers. Australia
imports about 15 tons of rayon a w#ek at
an average cost of 6s. per lb., but Mr.
Brown has proved that the new* material can
be put on the market at a much lower figure.
To make one ton of the new material takes
six tons of megass and 3201 b. of cotton lint
A plant has been erected at Gordonvale.
near Cairns, and the megass is obtained from
the Mulgrave mill, which also supplies the
electric motive power. The works, when
financial arrangements are completed, will be
greatly extended.


Come Play!
The invites you
II
If
sf
II it
//ere, in your own social environ-
ment, you may indulge your every
jancy in outdoor sport.
k
r
T
A.
« %
,
';/ ' : <■ '
m
I
"A
m
r- v '
■
c** - a*, i
WM
m
ar
■«*
1
Cm
A
&
U
JV '
NEVER was your eye keener nor your hand
more true. The tonic air makes you want
to play all day.
The clean smack and whistle of your golf ball on
Australia’s finest inland Links strenuous sets of
Tennis wandering afoot through the country-
side with rod and gun wading after duck on the
Wingecarribee, or angling for bass or perch in the
Mountain streams —will keep you joyfully out-of-
doors at the Ranelagh.
Vary your vacation still more with riding and
croquet, and in the evenings, with the comfort of
cheery old-world log fires—dancing, card parties,
billiards everywhere a delightful clubby atmo-
sphere you will find idle hours as pleasant as
sporting hours.
PLAN NOW TO COME.
Inclusive Tariff jrom Send jor Illustrated
£l/1/- per day or Brochure jrom the Sydney
jrom £6/6/- per week. Booking Office, 84 Pitt
Street. ’Phone, 81002.
15 miles east oj Moss Vale. 2300jt. above sea-level.
Ifvjtul flanelafjhd
ROBERTSON, N.S.W.
(The Premier Country Hotel oj the Commonwealth.)
Under the Management oj Gaston M. Lievain.
City Tattersail’s (Cup) Meeting
RANDWICK, NEXT SATURDAY, APRIL 13.
FIRST RACE 1 P.M.
Acceptances are due before 1 p.m. To-morrow (Thursday).
Saddling Paddock tickets may be purchased at A. A. Marks’s tobacconist shops.
OWEN F. MAIDMENT, Secretary.
D
A
DO
NEW MODEL.
DONALDS
WIRE STRAINER
BEST IN THE WORLD.
Requires no skill —takes an unlimited length of loose
wire—quick and efficient —-does not damage the wire
—stretches plain, netted or barb—light, and- folds
into small compass—stretches at any part of fence
model now available.
or at post—works automatically.
Classed by experienced fencers as Perfection.
A vastly-improved
PRICE, 22/6. POSTAGE: N.S.W., 1/6; INTERSTATE, 2/8. SEND FOR FREE CATALOGUE.
DONALD PATENTS LTD.
Obtainable AH Stores. GLENMORE ROAD, PADDINGTON, SYDNEY.
Makers of the famous Donalds Woolpresses, Lifting Jacks, etc.
Q,wickedl:lleCies-
- Rheumatism
”*< Backache/
TJLOOD is Youth—keep it free from uric acid, and
old-age pains will not molest you—Rheumatism.
Backache and other tortures cannot then spoil your
life and rob you of your strength and power. The
sure, guaranteed way to get rid of the harmful pain-
causing acid is to take Harrison’s Pills, every pack-
age of which bears the signature of a London doctor.
Harrison's Pills positively banish uric acid — they also
dissolve the uric acid crystals which lie along the
nerves and, muscles, torturing them with every move-
ment. When you take Harrison’s Pills you just feel
the ageing aches and pains glide away; you feel hope,
strength and health return. Hundreds of testi-
monials. One user says:—“l have tried so many
Rheumatism ‘cures’ without success that I felt I
never would get Better. Had often heard of Harri-
son’s Pills but never tried them until a friend gave
me some. I felt better at once, and haven’t had an
ache since the second bottle. I wish I’d tried them
before.”
Decide NOW to re-build your life l —to get rid of
kidney, bladder, urinary and uric-acid disorders! Get
a package of Harrison’s Pills from your chemist.
Three sizes:—lB Pills, 2/-; 32 Pills, 3/-; and 68
Pills, 5/-. Take as directed, and if not pleased with
results from the very first bottle —money back 1
Harrison’s Pills
Remove the Cause of Aches and Pains and Quickly Make You Well Again
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
ŵ
QUEENSLAND
QUEENSLAND
For FINEST RAILWAY SCENIC TRIP,
Brisbane to Cairns-Barron Falls, through
vast Sugar Plantations and Tropical
Fruit Farms.
GREAT WATERFALLS, CRATER
LAKES, CAVES, Tropical Blooms and
Colored Foliage.
Inquire regarding Bookings jor Railways “RESO” Winter Tours.
Booklets and all Particulars Free jrom :—
Government Intelligence and Tourist Bureau
Ann-Edward Streets, BRISBANE.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
56 Margaret Street.
T. C.
TROEDSON,
Director


7he cen/ne of Queen s /an c/s
c//s Anguished Soc/o/ Li/e.
ennom
MM
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Cou'-t
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
ffii
atnau
itltt
m slu>« SioresCtil.
Boys’ Box Yearling
Oxford Shoe. Stout
crepe rubber soles.
Black or Tan.
7 - x 9 8/11
10 x 13 .. 10/6
Ix 2 .... 12/6
Write for Ca.telogX
FOR LADIES 6* CHILDREN
189 PITT ST. 22 STRAND. 105 KINO ST
FOR MARKING LINEN
Saves a
“mix up”
in the
wash
OPfcl|l
N AM Els
Any name
woven
in fast
colors
“A Few Stitches and they’re on”
\K.S.Talbot\j [
Actual Size Style No. 2
PRICES
12 dot 7 6
6 dozj 5
3'6
3 do
Sold by all leading Drapers.
Write for Pattern Sheet to
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond,
Melbourne.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral [?]00[?] P[?]
Buckley e-Numn [?]utod
[?] [?] M[?]
The chief social event of last week was
the hop at the George liussells’ Toorak home,
organised to help with the refurnishing of
the Janet Clarke Hall of the Uni. Edzell
is a picturesque house of early English
architecture, and a sundial and a fountain are
(features of its old-world garden. Pink dahlias
and autumn foliage dolled up the drawing-
room, where there were bridge tables, and
greenery mingled with the Gobelin blue
draperies of the gold and blue ballroom. The
hostess wore a grey gown upon which gam-
bolled silver sequins. The Maudsley lady,
president of the organising committee, was
in black satin and lace. The dancers were
mainly of the younger set. Pat Lempriere,
who shared the duties of ticket sec. with
Mollie Deeper, was in ivory silk lace with
a sheen of dawn pink beneath, and almond
green, with gold, was her colleague’s choice.
Raynes Dickson, who held the purse, was
accompanied by Mrs. Dickson, whose attire
glimmered with bronze and gold. Mrs. H.
W. Gepp shed a radiance of silver paillettes
and beads. Miss Enid Joske, principal of
the Hall, came to the dance in black lace,
with diamond-shaped bits of green cheering
the skirt. Mayor Luxton and the Rev. T.
M. Robinson, chaplain of Trinity, were there.
Notable frocks worn by younger (lancers were
Rosemary Haynes’s Frencliy model of vellum-
toned satin, with the fashionable uneven hem-
line ; Phyllis Mein’s parchment satin, scat-
tered with wee beaded blossoms in yellow
tonings, and Margaret Cumming’s white
georgette with jet flowers at the shoulder and
waist-line. Dorothy Russell mingled silver
lace with yellow ninon.
Janet Clarke Hall, known in its infancy
as Trinity College Hostel, was founded to
provide women students of the Uni.
with the benefits of a residential col-
lege. Started in a very small way in
a rented house in Parkvillc, a bequest from
baronet William Clarke’s widow enabled the
erection of the building which bears her name.
It was opened in 1890 and re-modelled in ’27,
just prior to the erection of the new wing
made possible by the late T. W. Manifold’s
legacy of £14,500. Mr. Manifold’s gift car-
ried the condition that all resident students
at the hall should devote a certain period
of study to the art of cookery. A magnificent
dining-room, kitchenettes and several extra
bed-sitting-rooms are included in this section,
but the hall can accommodate only 30 of its
48 students, and the overflow is provided
for in four houses on the other side of Byd-
ney-road.
Though the rain pitter-pattered down at
intervals during the Williamstown Racing
Club’s meeting, there was a large attend-
ance, and there were no serious mishaps,
though a few spills were recorded in the
hurdle and steeplechase events. The only
use the ambulance was put to was to carry
the gate-takings to the stewards’ room. The
pretty course, with its gold-burnished pine-
trees, green lawns and flower-beds, and
rockeries bordering the sea (which trickles
in at the back of the betting-ring), was a
glow of color against leaden skies and a
bay equally grey and cheerless. Amongst
those in the members’ stand were the
y.A.T.C. secretary, T. A. Tabart and Mrs.
Tabart, Mrs. P. H. Lock, Miss Mason,
Teckie Fenner and Mrs. A. Gunn. Dressing
was limited to ensemble effects and sports
suits.
The Lyceum Club slew the fatted chicken
to celebrate the return of several of its
members who had been sojourning abroad,
among them the Harrison Moore lady, pianist
Uno Bourne and Mrs. E. Shackell. Mrs. T.
a’Beckeit and Miss E. Derham welcomed the
repatriated members, and some of these, in
returning thanks; spoke interestingly of their
experiences abroad. Miss Bourne sat down
to the concert-grand and played three pieces
by modern composers as a sort of amplifica-
tion of her spoken acknowledgement. The
musician wore a three-flounced frock of
coral-pink tone. The Moore lady’s gown of
black gros-grain silk was embroidered at
intervals with pastel-tinted bunches of roses
worn with a wrap to match. Mrs. Alfred
Deakin and her daughter Mrs. T. W. White,
Mrs. E. Bage. Mrs. Ernest Scott and Alice
Currie were there.
What would our forefathers have thought
had they been present at a joint meeting
of the Melbourne and Sydney electrical
engineering branches of the Institution of
Engineers held the other night! The Mel-
bourne branch met in the Kelvin Hall, the
Sydney branch at the University. The
Sydney chairman proposed R. M. Harvey,
the chairman in Melbourne, as chairman of
the joint-meeting. A Melbourne man
seconded the resolution, which was carried
by acclamation, the hand-clapping trom
both ends mingling in each room. J. M.
Crawford, chief-engineer of the P.M.G s.
department, was asked to deliver an address,
which he did —in Melbourne. When he made
a joke about the Harbor bridge there was
loud laughter—from Sydney. R- Lawson,
of the N.S.W. branch, then spoke on auto-
matic telephones, and when he had finished
there was applause —in which the Melbourne
audience joined. Some stirring prognosti-
cations about the future of telephony by
Mayor LuXton, of Melbourne, were inter-
rupted by an enthusiastic interjection from
Sydney, and so it went on.
The method of bringing the two meetings
together was the carrier-wave superimposed
on a physical wire; but the complications
were such as only the expert could grasp.
For instance, the loud speaker in each room
had to be screened from its attendant “mike,
and even then some of each speaker’s voice
travelled to the other end and back again.
Also, as it took one-twentieth of a second
for the unassisted sound-waves to get to the
back of the Kelvin Hall and only l/200th
of a second for the electrical impulses to
reach Sydney, the Sydney hearers heard the
remarks from Melbourne before the Mel-
bourne audience did. Before the end of the
debate advice was received from Adelaide
and the Speck that those parts were listen-
ing, too.
The first effort in Melbourne towards giv-
ing children from out back the benefit of
a change of air and scene was inaugurated
by Mr. and Mrs. Clarence Weber, the phy-
sical-culture experts, at their Mont Albei t
home, where 22 youngsters were entertained
for a week. These young folk, who hail
from the Malice, were selected by the Bush
Nursing Association. The popularity of the
scheme was such that Mrs. Weber had merely
to mention what she proposed doing to lie
innundated with offers of assistance from all
sides. One firm sent blankets, another batli-
ing-suits, and so on, and tliesc articles are
being stored by a friendly emporium in readi-
ness for a more ambitious seaside camp at
Christmas-time. Every day motorists rolled
up in their cars to take the small visitois
sight-seeing, and Healesville, Dromana and
other holiday resorts were in the itinerary.
The children were guests of the management
at Luna Park, and whizzed on the switch-
back railway and big dipper to their hearts
content, and they were also bidden to the
movies at the Regent Theatre. Mrs. Weber
discovered how little was rcquiicd to
amuse her guests when she took them
shopping. None of them had ever seeii
a lift, and their joy was unbounded
when they were allowed to take possession
of one, and were shot up and down from
basement to top-storey. The youngsters got
their first lessons in physical culture, too.
Pictured here by Ruskin is Donald
Mcßeath, who has been persuaded by Evelyn
Scotney to
make a re-ap-
pearance o n
the prof e s-
sional plat-
form with his
violin. As a
flying man iu
the war he
made a thou-
sand hours of
solo flights
without a
crash, but had
the bad luck
to injure his
hand and lose
the tendon of
a finger, so
that a conceit
career of great
promise was
s e e m i ngly
closed. M r.
Mcßeath was
associated with John McCormack during the
tenor’s American and Australian tours, and he
spent a year in the U.S.A. with Fritz Kreis-
ler, who took a great interest in the Aus-
tralian violinist. After returning home Mr.
Mcßcath married Eleanor Thomas, and be-
came a partner in a piano warehouse; but
the recovery of his injured hand has raised
hopes of resuming his interrupted career as
a violinist.
For the furnishing of the Gisborn and
Riddell Cottage Hospital the Hodges lady
lent the grounds of her home, Dreamthorpe,
at Macedon for a fete. The weather was of
the kindest, and the well-laden stalls be-
neath elm and oak and other English trees
made a pleasant sight. Mrs. Chris R.
Cowper launched the venture, and all went
merrily. The president of the committee was
Mrs. Ross Watt. The Hodges lady and
Miss Fisher conducted a lucky fairy dell
with two dainty sprites in charge; and a
gymkhana engineered by Mrs. R. Thompson
and Nancy Syme was another attraction.
Lord Somers opened the new r brick wing
of the Sutherland Homes for children at
Greensborough, in the Eltham-Heidelberg
district. For about IS years this institution
has carried on in a hampered way, but
there was a generous response to a recent
appeal for help; and the new building has
been erected as a memorial to the late
Selina Sutherland, the founder. There is
accommodation for 50 infants, who have over
30 acres to frolic in.
When Miss Straclian went abroad for her
holiday, he r
job as honorary
organiser o f
voluntary help-
ers for the
Baby Health
Centres was
temp orarily
taken over by
Leoni Levy,
pictured here.
’Pile energetic
miss retains
her interest in
the work as a
helper at the
training school
an d mother-
craft centre. As
a side-line she
is a Repertory
Society player,
and is doing
the publicity
work for the
society’s first production this season, “Juno
and the Paycock.”
Rain dragged out the tennis tournament
at Geelong until the middle of last week.
J. B. Hawkes was defeated in the singles
by A. H. Hassett, and Mrs. T. Graham
and Pixie Tabart annexed the women’s
doubles championship in A Grade, Miss A.
Gardiner becoming singles champion in the
same division. The tennis dance was a very
cheery affair at which everybody knew every-
body else. The Corio club-house was decked
out for the occasion in early autumn foliage
and gold and blue streamers. Miss Sammy
Vincent, who shared hon. sec. duties with
Harold Anderson, was in white taffeta, over
which black velvet wandered in points from
the hem-line and about the corsage. Mrs.
T. S. Hawkes was a slim figure in black
georgette sprinkled with rhinestones. She
wore a Hastening collar and strings of pearls.
Patti Wilson, flashing a lately-presented
engagement ring, wore brocaded raiment of
mist grey splashed with orange-hued roses.
Betty Anderson, also recently affianced,
sported a frock of tamarisk pink. Lorna
Hiskens and June Anguin put their trust
in gowns of fine black lace, and were justi-
fied.
Greta Callow, a young singer who is
to go oversea to complete her musical educa-
tion, was star performer at a farewell con-
cert one night last week. A South Austra-
lian, at a very early age her voice caught
Dame Nellie’s ear at an Adelaide Govern-
ment House function, and she went to the
Albert-street Con., where the J.C.W. and the
Lord Iveagh scholarships were awarded
her. After appearing at the fare-
well concert of the Dame in Adelaide,
Miss Callow joined the “Hit the Deck” co.,
and then appeared in “The Vagabond King”
during the Sydney season. Her brother
Russell, a tenor, is still a member of the
chorus. These young peoples’ mother is
Madame Violet Callow (Mrs. B. E. Mona-
ghan), who has a number of song com-
positions to her credit. At her farewell
concert Miss Callow looked charming in a
white tulle skirt attached to a tight-fitting
white satin bodice. Ida Scott proved an
ideal accompanist. Violinist Edouard Lam-
bert, his pianist son Raymond, baritone
Ernest Sage and Muriel Cheek, with her
lyric choir, contributed to the programme.
Rear-Admiral Napier’s wife, who has been
president of the Friendly Union of Sailors’
Wives and Mothers since she came to Mel-
bourne, arranged her last programme in her
official capacity for last week’s monthly meet-
ing. Her return to England is fixed for
next month. Occasion was taken to say good-
bye to the Rev. Hudson, chaplain of the
Flinders Naval Depot, who is also to be a
passenger to the Cold Country. He took
away a travelling-rug and other gifts as
souvenirs of his stay.
Leon Gordon’s “Oriental mystery play”
which opened at the King’s on Saturday
night was written to provoke laughter, and
it succeeded. Henrietta Cavendish and
Mary MacGregor, the only women in the
cast, gathered sufficient posies and sheaves
of gladioli to give the ghost a magnifi-
cent burial, and flappers went home deter-
mined to get replicas of Miss M'ac-
gregor’s dressing, which is skirt and topcoat
of dark-green velvet linked to a jersey
sweater and hat of paler hue. Miss Caven-
dish, as an English housekeeper, wears a
fawn frock with spotless collar. In. the
first-night audience were ex-Mayor More
and his lady and Sheila, the matron m si-
very brocade and grey fox fur.
applauded were Mrs. A. Robertson, the 1 ei jj
Blackbourns, Dr. Ethel Osborne, Mrs. n
Fitcher and Don, the John Taits and ' aleru
Purves in a white fox coat.
Joyce Semmens, in white georgette glisten-
ing with rhinestones beneath cascades 01
white tulle, dodged the showers one oaj
last week as she stepped into the Alma-roa
kirk to become Mrs. Donald Oxer. an
bridegroom’s father, Prof. Oxer, of .y™
College, assisted by the Rev. David Ross
forged the bonds. The bride, the youngei
daughter of Colonel and Mrs. J. M.
mens, of East St. Kilda, had two maids clad
in buttercup-tinted frocks and felt millinery
Guests were bidden to Siller Craig, the Sem-
mens home, for the celebrations.
Evelyn Scotney wore a gold-and-green lame
gown, with toque in the same hues, on r ri-
day night when she was the guest of tne uu
Students’ Association of the Uni. Con. J.
Sutton Crow, the president, handed over a
welcoming posy, and Chancellor Mach arland
beamed upon the gathering. Isobel carte ,
Freda Manners Sutton and Elsie h rasei
made music, and Miss Scotney gave a breezy
account of her musical experiences in Britain
and the U.S.A.
The new evening headwear was
by Evelyn Scotney when she sang in ‘ Elijah.
With her white crSpe satin and lace irocK
she wore an Egyptian mode; of cap that com-
pletely covered hair and ears—being silvery-
white it had the effect of a wig. Iwo huge
pink crystal-sprinkled roses nestled on ne
left shoulder, and a couple more, with trail-
ing buds, finished her girdle in front.
Mrs Macßain, who died at Warlingliam,
Surrey, England, the other day, was a
daughter of Henry Wrixon, formerly Attor-
ney-General and President of the legisla-
tive Council. Her widower husband, Rev.
Smith Macßain, is a son of the late .Tames
Macßain, who was a predecessor of \N rixp n
in the Upper House chair. Many middle-
aged folk accustomed to attend the opening
and prorogation of State sessions will
remember the pretty nun-like Wrixon gir,
clad with quakeress simplicity, who used
to sit on a plush seat in the Upper House.
She was the antithesis of the flapper. Her
octogenarian uncle, Henry Miller, who was
in those times a member of the House or
Landlords, is still on deck in our financial
circles. Wrixon was knighted for special
services in the Ah Toy case when lie was
Attorney-General. Macßain got his title
when lie was Plush House President, and
Henry Miller liis for Red Cross work during
the Big Scrap.
As Premier McPherson is still in mourning
for his wife, it fell to Chief Secretary Argyle
as Minister next in seniority to preside at
the Government dinner to Alec Peacock, the
Speaker, to commemorate his completion, o.
40 years’ continuous Parliamentary, service.
This prominence caused politicians to
speculate whether Argyle’s chance for the
Premiership is likely to come while he is still
vigorous. He is 61, and save for an occa-
sional attack of asthma has good health.
He has also a delightful and likely to be
profitable hobby—an orange grove at Lake
Kangaroo, near Kerang. Such has been the
development that his compact holding is
worth about £3OO an acre.
Reciprocating the courtesy of Ministers
from other States in visiting Melbourne at Cup
time—on urgent business —Vic. Education
Minister Cohen, K.C., went to Sydney, also
on business, during the Easter festivities.
His engagement list had entries respecting
visits to Glenfield school for sub-normal
children and to metropolitan high and tech-
nical schools. Cohen, who took the Educa-
tion portfolio none too gladly, now likes it.
and, if given opportunity to apply the in-
formation he has acquired in the last four
months, he will leave his mark. on the depart-
ment. When previously in office in 1924 lie
had a run of only four, months in th.-
Lawson and Peacock Cabinets.
W. P. Heathershaw, Under Sec. of the
Chief Sec.’s Dept., and Lewis, Sec. of the
Law Dept., are to have their screws raised
from £lOOO to £1250 each shortly. Lewis,
Chief-Inspector of Explosives, and Currey,
Registrar-General, have been given substan-
tial rises.
“A.G.M.’s” note from London :
Norman D’Arcy, grandson of W.K., who loomed
so large in Mount Morgan affairs, was married at
St. Paul’s, Knightsbridge, to Lady Peggy Hay,
daughter of the late Earl of Kinnoull. Wattle
blossom figured largely in the decorations, and the
reception was held at the Garden Club, of which
the bride’s mother, who is a great flower-lover, is a
foundation member. The heating pipes of the church
had been burst by the great frost, and the atmo-
sphere was bitter in consequence. To take off the
chill, vergers carried oil stoves in the wake of the
bridal procession, and in this way provided a novel
note which was neither fragrant nor picturesque.
Mrs. W. K. D’Arcy, so long known and admired in
Melbourne, gave the bride a wonderful diamond
brooch. The bride’s brother, the Earl of Kinnoull,
married a daughter of Mrs. Kate Meyrick, the
night-club lady.


pwpjH
*******
MSP
The superb quality of the frems selected for use in
‘Drummond's P in;\s contributes in no small decree to
their distinctive appearance, but it requires the
masterly skill of the firm's experts to impart that
■added exclusiveness that} has always been associated
with their Diamond and Gem Pittas. Both the quality
and the distinctiveness of the Rin£\s illustrated can
best be appreciated by.a personal inspection.
A discount of five pev cent, is allowed
on all cash purchases.
WILLIAM DRUMMOND C CO.
344-346 COLLINS
MELBOURNE
ST.
IMMEDIATE.
*•4
THE BOOK THAT
IMMEDIATELY changes your
Ideas , Thoughts, Actions.
IMMEDIATELY changes your
Purposes and Plans in Life.
IMMEDIATELY changes your
Methods of Handling others.
IMMEDIATELY changes your
Outlook for the Future.
IMMEDIATELY changes you
from a Wisher to a Winner.
INSTANTANEOUS
PERSONAL MAGNETISM
r A Totally New And
Different Personal Magnetism ,
Quick And Easy To Learn!
PRICE
251-
Postage, • //- extra.
THIS huge volume is the first book in the history
of the world that immediately produces definite
mental changes which benefit the individual
in practical ways affecting his entire status in life!
This new instantaneous self-teaching process at
once enlarges the reader’s earning capacity through
the greater magnetic influence which he exerts with
surprising effect upon all his associates or employers
or customers or others with whom he wishes .to do
business or attract to him for reasons of personal
advantage. The same powerful magnetic control,
through this new system, is just as swiftly evident
in all his social and domestic relationships. And
most surprising of all, the new “instantaneous per-
sonal magnetism” is the only known force that
will overcome completely all the handicaps of an
insufficient education I
It Releases the Giant of Magnetism that Dwells Within You.
THE TECHNICAL BOOKSHOP,
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
ẁ
ẃ
DISTRIBUTORS:
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
307-15 Kent Street, Sydney.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
380-82 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD.,
233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD.
172-74 Pulteney Street, Adelaide
STEWART & MACLEAN PTY.,
LTD.,
104 George Street, Launceston.
Please send me Booklet “B,” giving full particulars
of Delco-Light.
NAME
ADDRESS
DELCO-LIGHT
Product of General Motors


ijnder
Royal
/Varrant
Vintage 1920.
ToH.K
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
ChariesTleidsicck
lilli
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
champagHE
Qarksllcidsieov
Reims
WBMS3&
PELLISSOIM
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australnsinn Agrer.ts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
E7>e WENTWORTH
Unanimously voted the Coolest Place in Sydney, it is the
choice of the discriminating hostess for the entertaining of her
guests, afternoon or evening.
On Mondays the whole of the Ballroom and Palm Court is
reserved for Bridge Players. Other afternoons, “Lyn Christie
and his rhythmic symphonists make fly the hours between
3 and 5.30.
A perfect cuisine, exhilarating music, a satin-smooth floor—
what more could you have to make your Dinner or Supper
Party an unqualified success?
Order Wines before 6 p.m. For Tables, Ring 8W1361
MadteaySt.
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT
( Located, within the City Boundary, seven
minutes from G.P.O.')
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 150 Rooms, is now open and
features Two-, Three- and Four-
room Suites, each with Bath; also
Single and Double Rooms. Central
Heating, Running Water and
’Phones installed in each room.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views.
Weekly inclusive tariff,
from £5/5/-
Daily, from £1
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines); Tele-
graphic address: “Fifmac,” Syd-
ney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
SHEER
CHIFFON
SILK
STOCKINCS
The Easter race meeting finished with one
of those perfect autumn days that show
everything to advantage. The Stoneliavens
were there, the lady in a parchment shade
of pussy willow flecked with black. Prime
Minister Bruce looked a trifle subdued, liis
usual tailored splendor having given place
to a grey Oxford overcoat and a crushed-
looking Alpine hat; but Mrs. Bruce
was smart in black and white trappings,
New fashions and modes, by the way, weren’t
confined to humans; the illustrious Stre-
plion’s new style of hair-dressing, a neat
little clipped fringe across the forehead,
brought him a crowd of feminine admirers
even before he landed the A.J.C. Plate. There
were some admirable tailored effects amd
luxurious furs, but most of them were worn
slung across the arm, there being no need for
neck and shoulder coddling.
Mrs. Alex. Ilay had a very well-defined
waistline, which her elegant slimness per-
mits; others adopted the surcingle style with
less success. Mrs. Arthur Schute looked re-
juvenated after her sojourn in Europe, in a
biscuit tailored suit with the coat terminat-
ing in a three-tiered peplum. Kathleen
O’Donnell, also newly returned from Lon-
don, wore a costume of dull leaf-green camel-
hair cloth that told of Alpine sports in
Switzerland.
The Governor and, Lady de Chair were
not at Randwick’s closing day. Sir Dudley
was at the annual garden party given by
the Royal North Shore Hospital when it
presents the yearly report, and he laid one
of the foundation stones of the new home for
the nurses, while Lady de Chair was opening
the play wing of Scarba House, Bondi,
brought into being by the good work of
the Ladies’ Auxiliary, which Mrs. R. M.
Loewenthal directs.
Even the pelting rain failed to damp the
spirits of race enthusiasts on Ladies’ Day
at Randwick, but it almost eliminated the
fine feathers. The Governor and Lady Stone-
haven came in time to see the finish of the
first race. ller Ex. was enveloped in a
serviceable brown Burberry that reached
down to her ankles and up to her cheeks, and
a little brown felt hat completed the eclipse.
Lady de Chair did her bit to lighten the
gloom in a smart coat of lido blue with
skunk collaring and culling, and a hat of the
same bright tones.
The Country Women’s Association opened
its rest rooms last week in the imposing
State Savings Bank building. Health
Minister Dr. Arthur must have realised that
he was on thin ice when he amiably sug-
gested that the association might be a big
political force, for a chorus of remonstrances
interrupted his eulogies at this point, and
impressed upon the Minister that the asso-
ciation’s one purpose is to better the con-
ditions of the out-back woman.
Still the Country Women in their lighter
moments can mix high purpose and pleasure,
as the Wentworth Cafe brightly demonstrated
when the C.P. reunion was held amid brave
floral decorations and to the sound of the
jazz orchestra. Metropolitan members organ-
ised the shivoo for the entertainment of visi-
tors to the Easter festivities, and a few songs
were sandwiched in with the dance items.
There were speeches of welcome from Min-
ister Buttenshaw, w T hose recently-acquired
bride wore a black velvet gown garlanded
with cloth of gold roses. Mrs. Bruxner led
the vanguard of hostesses.
The warship Canberra recognised its social
obligations by breaking out in bowers of
flowers and colored fairy lights and spraying
fountains one night last week. The guest
list grew so big and the refusals were so few
that there was little space for dancing, and
that little was further reduced when the rain
came on and swished under the canvas, play-
ing the mischief with many a pair of ex-
pensive shoon. Popular Captain Massey ex-
tended the hand of welcome to over 300
guests. Admiral Hyde smiled proudly beside
his recent bride, an Undine in foam-green
tulle billowing in ruffles from a silver sheath.
Mrs. Fred McMaster’s smile flashed over
black lace mounted on silver; with her were
a tall son and good-looking daughter Thelma.
The Coombe lady’s blonde attractions were
emphasised by long drapings of rose pink
lace. Betty Reid, a beautifully complexioned
deb. from Garden Island, wore from the
shoulder of her long white tulle frock a
trail of pink roses and her feet twinkled in
bright green satin slippers. Elaine de Chair
eame late, but just in time to save her
pretty pale-green frock from a tropical
downpour. She had tarried behind to open
the new Theatre of Youth situated in
Young-street. The Canberra left for Jervis
Bay on Monday.
Dr. and Mrs. E. W. Fairfax gave a dance
at their Point Piper home to introduce
daughter Margaret, frocked in white flounced
tulle, to the social whirl. The damsel’s young
friends, Jane and Gwitha Connolly, Anne
Gordon, Vera Blackburn, Patience Cay and
Mary Harvey also made their first bow to
society. Mrs. Fairfax received the youthful
company gowned in Madonna blue lace
against a background of roses and heliotrope.
Clarice Faithful Anderson, the chatelaine
>of .Camelot Park, Camden, requisitioned the
Royal Rose Bay Golf Club on Friday night
for a ball there. Trucks of lovely flowers
came from her own gardens and the spacious
beds of the Macarthur Onslows’ Camden
Park estate, while Sydney contributed enough
additional blooms to make the spacious golf-
house a dream of floral beauty. The young
hostess received her guests in a handsome
gown of gold and rose brocade with a pea-
cock flounced skirt of georgette. The cor-
sage was moulded to her straight slim figure.
Elaine de Chair headed the list of the 300.
The Macarthur Onslow clan came in full
force from Camden, and there were repre-
sentatives of all the landed uppah ten who
were in Sydney or within car radius thereof.
At St. Vincent’s Hospital Ball (the 45th)
in the Town Hall the Governor-General and
Lady Stonehaven were the committee’s big
game, lesser lions being Premier and Mrs.
Bavin, the Admiral and his lady. General
and Mrs. Bertie Lloyd. Alexander MacCor-
mick had a stalwart backing of other medi-
cal officers of the great institution as he
received the distinguished guests, and the
ladies’ committee was headed by Mrs. F. G.
Fanning. Lady Stonehaven’s gown' sug-
gested a moonlight sonata, georgette sky blue
splashed with silver sequins. A septette
of shy little debs, made their curtsies. Mrs.
Civic Commissioner Garlick, in a smart
gown of lido blue and silver metal brocade,
piloted the notables to her rooms for supper
amid masses of ferns and flowers from the
civic nursery. Miss Kate Egan, Mrs. M. J.
Slattery, Mrs. John Barlow and Mrs. W.
Coyle were among the many hard workers
who always put their shoulders to the wheel
for St. Vincent’s big function.
Let this Letter introduce you to Muriel
Hamilton Hudson, the fourth woman author-
ised by the
Full Court of
N. S. Wales
to practise
law. Miss
Hudson enter-
ed the Uni.
from the Syd-
ne y Gir 1 s’
High School
only five years
ago, and in
the same year
entered into
articles with
Pigott, Stin-
son, Macgre-
gor and Pal-
mer. In 1928
she graduated
LL.B., taking
the. prize for
I n ternational
Law in 1928.
The good-look-
ing girl’s articles having expired, and having
been admitted a solicitor by the Full Court,
she will carry on in the same unassuming
way with her old firm.
To the Blue and Gold Ball arranged by
the executive of the C.W.A. at the Ambassa-
dors, Lady Stonehaven came in a gown
of lace the color of new copper, with
drapings of coral georgette. The Gov-
ernor and Lady de Chair arrived for dinner,
her Ex. handsome in a creation of mist grey
with diamente flashing here and there from
its softness. Four little debs, were pre-
sented by the Governor’s wife to the wife
of the Governor-General —Patricia Farrell,
Valerie Dempsey, Inda Blessing and Marie
Wake. Elaine de Chair and Margaret Fair-
fax were the stars of the historical tableaux
as Mary Queen of Scots and Mary Seaton,
but local interest was focused on Faith
Macarthur Onslow, in a sprigged corded silk
gown of one of her forebears. The full frock
and little jaunty plate-like hat perched on
ringlets suggested the ’seventies; actually
Faith was representing Mrs. Macarthur, who
watched Australia’s first sheep graze on the
rich pastures of Camden. Ailsa Cullen made
Mrs. Macquarie charming and gracious
in the modified draperies that great ladies
affected between the Empire and Early-
Victorian periods. Clarice Faithful Ander-
son was a most realistic Mrs. Faithful of
the powdered, petticoated and panniered
eighteenth century.
The ball at the Royal Sydney Golf Club on
Saturday night terminated the round of
Easter festivities. About 600 of the elect
moved amid the profusion of flowers and
the glow of soft-colored lights. The decora-
tions were mainly pink, like the dressing.
The Norman Bur,dekins and the Ellis Feild-
ing Joneses brought merry parties. Mrs. Pat
Osborne was a good-looker in black taffetas.
Mrs. Howard Bullock was another smart
black-frocker in draped velvet, and a youth-
fully-fair exponent of the sombre tone was
Gretel Bullmore. Mrs. Arthur Schute’s Paris
model was of Mediterranean-blue georgette,
all filmy folds and long drapes. Mrs. A. E.
Hughes, in black upholsterings, brought
youthful daughter Helen, looking like a
fragile bit of Dresden in petal-pink tulle
frills, and Miss Pargoter, a South African
visitor, who was attractive in sky blue.
Clarice Faithful Anderson was handsome in
white georgette, and Pat Long-Innes, in pink
taffetas shot with gold, looked as if law
would be the last thing to ever enter her
pretty head. Barbara Holmes, from Bath-
urst, was delectable in cherry georgette, and
Marjorie Luscombe Newman furnished an-
other pink vision in a frilled frock.
William Dobell, who won this year's
Society of Artists’ travelling scholarship—
it’s worth about £250 —hails from New-
castle, where his father was a building con-
tractor. Young William first handled the
drawing-pen and T-square professionally in
the drafting-
room of W.
Porter, a
Newcastle
archite ct.
During and
following the
war he carried
out for his em-
ployer several
war - memorial
undertakings,
which gave
him an oppor-
tunity to exer-
cise a talent
for figure de-
sign. A grow-
ing likeness for
this work
brought him
to Sydney six
years ago; he
joined the
Sydney Art
School as an evening pupil, and at the same
time entered the Wunderlichs’ architectural
department. Soon afterwards lie was shifted
over to the firm’s publicity branch, and in
that sphere he has been responsible for most
of the pen work and color design of recent
Wunderlich advertising and publicity litera-
ture. He is 29 years young, and when the
award was made was not in town to receive
congratulations; he was holidaying with
brush and palette in the bush, and if this
photo, isn’t as good as some, you’ll have to
just reflect that it’s a camp “snap.”
P. G. Taylor, a well-known Union Club
member, as his father was before him, and
one of the young Australians who did big
things in the air during the war, has put
up a record of sorts. He is taking his annual
holiday to Tasmania in his own seaplane.
He left Broken Bay, where he hangars the
aerial ’bus at his week-end place, last week,
taking his wife, who was “Twee” Dailey, as
mechanic. They got as far as Port Albert
and then ran into a terrific storm. At the
time of writing they are at Gippsland
Lakes waiting for news of better weather,
when they will fuel on to Hobart
The Musical Association utilised David
Jones’s to entertain Lady de Chair, Erica
Morini and Arthur Benjamin on Friday
night. Lady de Chair, Justice Harvey and
Arthur Benjamin, Arundel Orchard and pre-
sident Faunce Allman made charming-
speeches, though they didn’t carry far enough
for those in the background to hear them.
Sydney’s funeral service in commemora-
tion of Marshal Foch was the more impres-
sive for its simplicity. It was a gloomy
morning, and the light filtering through the
rose window of St. Mary’s gave a mellowness
to the grand interior. Sir Dudley de Chair
arrived in plenty of time to take his place
before the requiem mass began ; the Governor-
General was represented by his secretary,
Major Nicholl. Frank Farrell, the Catholic
Returned Soldiers’ Association’s secretary,
ushered the naval and military part of the
congregation and the Consular and civic per-
sonages to their places. No women were
invited, but those who came found a place
reserved for them. France’s Consul-General
Nettement wore a cluster of decorations on
his striking uniform.
A feature of the General Motors Annual
Dinner at the Wentworth last Wednesday
was the assembling of a car on the stage.
When this was completed general-manager
J. T. Potter took the wheel and drove into
the ballroom, where he unloaded six charm-
ing ballet-girls. This is the third year that
the headquarters have entertained their dis-
tributors and dealers; the programme was
arranged by assistant-sales-manager Har-
greaves and “Bill” Fuller, and his assistant-
sales-supervisor Clifford saw to it that it
went with a hum. Jazz-singer George Sor-
ley was one of the attractions, and there
were Tivoli artists, jugglers and equilibrists
and a wrestling exhibition. Headlights were
turned for home in the small hours.
The Sun’s Campbell Jones gave his only
daughter. Linley, to Robert Huxtable, only
son of the late Dr. lluxtable, of Charters
Towers, last week. The short, tight bodic-e,
full, long skirt, silver girdle and train of the
tall bride’s frock suited her to perfection.
Her maids, cousin Ina Maxwell and Mary
M ormald, wore cote-d'azur frocks similarly
made. One tall Jones brother was grooms-
man, and the other helped to usher the guests
into the pews of beautiful old St. Mark s,
Darling Point. The marriage meats were
spread at the Royal Golf Clubhouse, Rose
Bay. Elaine de Chair was among the youth-
ful guests. A distinguished figure among the
seniors was Melbourne’s blind K.C., who
paid his first visit to Sydney for many years
to attend his niece's wedding.
At St. John’s, Darlinghurst, on Thursday
last, Edna May, eldest daughter of the Henry
E. Dixons, of Wellington (M.L.), and Leslie
Ewen Keen, son of Mrs, W. Keen, of Syd-
ney, were made one, the Rev. Lucas tying
the knot. The bride wore a charming gown
of ivory satin mounted on flesh-pink satin.
There was a cape collar of pink georgette,
and at the waist a pink-satin rose from which
hung streamers of shell, rose and mauve.
The mushroom hat was of white tulle lined
with pink georgette. An armlet of Cecil
Brunner roses and white gladioli was carried.
Kathleen Dobson, the small bridesmaid, was
in shell pink with touches of blue, and bore
a basket of pink roses and carnations. Mrs.
John C. Henry, who received the guests
afterwards at the Wentworth, wore a frock
of lido blue and pale-pink georgette, and a
hat of beige summer felt.
St. James’s Church bore striking evi-
dences of the artistic skill of florist Fred
Searl when Phyllis Vale went to the altar
with Cecil Schartl, of Elizabeth Buy. The
pretty young bride was frocked in white and
gold, and the Nile green frocking of atten-
dant sisters Sheila and Joyce, and Kathleen
Johnston, served to enhance her fairness.
Bride’s parents, the Harrie Vales, of Strath-
field, gave the marriage feast at David
Jones’s.
M.L.A. Bruce Walker’s son Noel entered
into a life partnership the same night in the
same church with Rosalie Sutherland, of
Vaucluse. The silver- and lace-clad bride
was attended by sister Nancy, Marjorie
Cadel and Noel Musgrave.
It was a right-down, regular doctors’ wed-
ding when Rev. Hugh Patou united I)r. Ida
Saunders, of Hurstville, and Dr. Frank
Smidlin, of Kensington, at St. Stephen’s
Church on Friday afternoon. A delphinium-
blue georgette frock and a summer felt hat
looked pretty above the bride’s uncommon
rose beige suede shoes, and she carried such
a beautiful sheaf of gladioli and roses. Dr.
Kathleen Winning ’maided, and Dr. Angus
Walker Smith best-manned.
Mary Lane Mullins, youngest of John
Lane Mullins’s girls, has just become
engaged to Dr. John Tansey, of St. Vincent’s
Hospital staff. He is brother of Father
Tansey, of St. Mary’s Cathedral. Mary
is blue-eyed and petite, and can steer a car
through the busiest traffic without blinking
an eyelash.
Archdeacon Boyce had a party to cele-
brate his 85th birthday, when the rectory
of St. Paul’s, Redfern, was a bower of Easter
daisies and roses, and the reverend gentleman
cut his birthday-cake with the presentation
trowel given him when he laid the founda-
tion-stone of St. Stephen’s, Bourke, in 1874.
Albert Gould, another octogenarian, was one
of the guests.
The daughters of Israel will gather in
Sydney from the four quarters of Australasia
at the end of May at the invitation of Dr.
Fanny Reading, president of the Council of
Jewish Women. Dr. Reading has already
helped to set similar organisations going in
Victoria and Queensland, and her aim is to
have branches in every capital; seizing upon
the coming gathering of Zionists, she has
hitched the Women’s Conference to the tail,
so to speak. The C.J.W. organisation ha 3
already substantially helped every Jewish
charity.
The debt owed by the skirted sex to Dr.
J. M. Creed, M.L.C., has not been forgotten
by the N.S.W. Women’s League, which is
arranging to give him a testimonial. The
old man—he will be 87 in November—has
been a Leg. Councillor since 1885, and before
that was an M.L.A. for 13 years. He battled
hard for the enfranchisement of women when
it had few supporters. As far back as 1886
he introduced a bill to legalise cremation,
and he had to wait 40 years to see the
thing established in N.S.W.
The Havilah Church of England Home for
Babies committee roped in all the notables
it could for its bid for funds at the
Ambassadors. Our State Exes, and the
South Australian vice-regals were among the
diners, Lady de Chair’s diamond and pearl
ornaments enhancing a handsome chiffon
gown of wood-rose color. Lady llore-Ruth-
ven was in black and flesh tints, and wore
ropes of pearls. President Jane Brenan
graced a gown of silver and blue-shot taffetas,
and Mrs. George Vivers was elegant in ivory
satin and lace.


eER lei
Lncfi
tmr
CTJ£ ftCJS. gj jgjn.
• •
• •
• ••
(O'
ituef
■A ' v
\ ('Y < >*
X ) i 0
ma
l\m
) a
&; x
5924
eif:
1/
82-CUfl
What is Your Figure
Type? Let the BERLEI
INDICATOR be your
guide.
Consult the Berlei Type Indicator
at any reliable store. If your
measurements indicate AVER-
AGE Type, then fit Berlei Con-
trolette 5924.
A feature of this model is the
side-fastening brassiere top, while
it has the advantage of a firm
bust and light boning over the
abdomen. Excellent diaphragm
control is provided by the brass-
iere coming well down over the.
waist. Wide elastic sections at
sides, giving comfortable control,
preserve the beautiful lines of
AVERAGE figures. In pink
striped Repp. Sizes: 34-44; 0.5.,
46-48 inches.
Every Berlei foundation
is fully guaranteed
Legal Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OE
NEW ZEALAND.
NELSON DISTRICT.
(Nelson Registry.)
In Divorce.
No. 5/1929.
T° HENRY RAYMOND GRAHAM of
Sydney husband of Constance Daisy
Graham of Nelson in New Zealand.
TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand at Nelson, citing you to appear and
answer the Petition of Constance Daisy
Graham wherein she prays for a Dissolution
of her marriage with you on the ground of
desertion and such Citation intimates that
in default of your so doing the Court will
proceed to hear the said Petition and to
pronounce sentence therein notwithstanding
your absence NOW THEREFORE TAKE
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid you
are within forty-two days after the date of
this publication to attend in person or by
your Solicitor at the Supreme Court Office
at Nelson and there to enter an appearance
without which you will not be allowed to
address the Court at any stage of the pro-
ceedings.
A copy of the said Citation and Petition
will be supplied to you on your applying
for the same at the Supreme Court Office
at Nelson.
this Twentieth day of March,
F. MITCHELL,
Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particu-
larly requested to forward to him the fore-
going advertisement.
Charles Richmond Fell, Esquire, is the
Solicitor for the Petitioner, whose address
for service is at the offices of Messieurs
tell & Harley, Solicitors, Hardy Street,
Nelson, New Zealand.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
price 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Legal Notices.
MANSFIELD’S ESTATE.
A LL persons claiming descent from WIL-
LIAM MANSFIELD THE ELDER,
formerly of Black Snake (Granton), Tas-
mania, Farmer, or MICHAEL MANS-
FIELD, formerly of Hobart, Pilot, are re-
quested to furnish IN WRITING to the
undersigned full details showing how
descent traced for possible future reference.
CLERK, WALKER. STOPS AND
STEPHENS,
Solicitors, 116 Collins Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
JAMES ADOLPHUS NORRISH,
DECEASED.
Pursuant to the Trustee Act 1925.
ALL persons* having claims against the
Estate of JAMES ADOLPHUS NOR-
RISH, late of Elmhurst, Carlton Road
North, Weymouth, in the County of Dorset,
who died on the 31st day of August, 1928,
and administration to whose Estate was
granted on the 28tli day of November, 1928,
are required to send written particulars to
the undersigned by the 6th day of July, 1929,
after which date the Administrators will dis-
tribute the Deceased’s Estate, having regard
only to valid claims then notified.
DATED this 22nd day of February, 1929.
SPARKES, POPE. THOMAS & MATHEW,
Solicitors for the Administrators,
Crediton, Devon, England.
Note.— lf WALTER TUCKER, who went
to New Zealand many years ago, and whose
last known address was Manganui Bluff,
Darganville, Auckland, or any of his descend-
ants, will apply to the above-mentioned
Sparkes, Pope, Thomas & Mathew, he will
hear of something to his advantage
Personal and Missing Friends.
CILLS.—HENRY GEORGE SILLS, last
heard of Sydney. Occupation carpenter
Mother died Please giving address, to
J - P' SILLS, Box 254; Port Elizabeth,
South Africa.
i
Polished Oak Cabinets, com-
pletely fitted with Prince’s
Plate Spoons and Forks and
“Trustworthy” Cutlery, are
available Irom £7/10/- to
£lOO. A catalogue will be
sent upon request.
Visitors
toLondon
Mappin & Webb have the distinction of
being one of the oldest Firms of Gold
and Silversmiths, Jewellers, and Dress-
ing Bag Makers in the World, and they
extend a cordial invitation to visitors
from the Commonwealth to call when
in London.
The Oxford Street and Regent Street
Showrooms are within 5 minutes by
taxi from the leading Hotels; the City
Showrooms quite near St. Paul’s
Cathedral, The Tower of London, Guild-
hall, and opposite The Mansion House.
MAPPIN £ WEBB
JEWELLERYWATCHE S • CLOCKS • SILVERWARE
PRIIVCE S PLATE • TANCY C LEATHER GOODS.
: LONDON SHOWROOMS :
1581620XF0RD STw.i.I72.REGENT S7w.i.2,QUEENVICTORIA STe.c.4
THE
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Established 1849.
THE 80th ANNUAL REPORT DISCLOSES THE FOLLOWING RECORD
FIGURES FOR THE YEAR 1928:
NEW BUSINESS completed . . .. .. t £2l 352 160
PAID TO MEMBERS or their dependents .. .. .. .. .. £4,072,305
NEW BUSINESS effected by existing members .. £6|49U467
Total Revenue for the year
ASSETS AT 31st DECEMBER, 1928
£10,780,506
£73,776,235
Notwithstanding the exceptional strength of the reserves, the SURPLUS AVAILABLE
IOR DISTRIBUTION as Cash Bonuses amongst the participating members in the
Ordinary Department is
£3,005,238.
It is the largest sum ever distributed by the Society as Cash Bonuses for a single year,
and will provide Reversionary additions to policies of about £5,240,000.
This represents an average return to participating policy-holders in the Ordinary Depart-
ment of ELEVEN SHILLINGS AND EIGHTPENCE in each Pound of premiums paid
in 1928.
%
Paid to members or their dependents during the existence of the Society:
OVER NINETY-ONE MILLION POUNDS.
Provision for your Old Age. Protection for your dependents.
A Profitable Investment.
DIRECTORS:
Sir Alfred Meeks, K.8.E., M.L.C., Chairman.
Sir Samuel Hordern, Deputy Chairman.
Alex. Jobson, Esq. ; Rodney R. Dangar, Esq.
Dr. G. H. Abbott; Sir Alex. MacCormick, K.C.M.G.
G. M. Macarthur Onslow, Esq.
F. T. BRIDGES, Acting General Manager.
WRITE OR ’PHONE FOR PROSPECTUS.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 8W2354.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your fancy, write
to the Manager, who will quote you price for the original.


IT’S EASY TO GET
RID OF PIMPLES
Why put up with disfiguring skin troubles when you
can get rid of them easily by enriching the blood
with Cream of Yeast? See how your skin cltars as
the good, rich, new blood replaces the old. And with
richer blood comes clearer eyes, firmer step, greater
vigor. Even the hair becomes glossier as Cream of
Yeast improves the general health. Start this popular
treatment to-day—24 Cream of Yeast tablets cost only
1/lld. at any good chemists, or you can get 125
tablets for 5/9. Where other things fail after months
Cream of Yeast gives results at once. Proof is easy,
"nd costs little. Be sure you get Cream of Yeast!
FOP
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
sms
made
»RIT|SH
Perfection
PirSK ROBBER
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
"The Ausiralasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS.
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Wanderings in Wild Australia
By Sir BALDWIN SPENCEB.
K.C.M.G., F.R.S., author of “The
Arunta,” “Across Australia,” etc.
Two vols. Illustrated. 425. net.
Illustrated London News: —“A very valu-
able addition to his ‘Native Tribes of the
Northern Territory of Australia.’ ”
The Economics of Welfare
By A. C. PIGOU, M.A., Professor
of Political Economy in the Uni-
versity of Cambridge. Third Edi-
tion, thoroughly revised, with four
new chapters. 80s. net.
NEW NOVELS.
Farthing Hall
A novel in Letters. by HUGH
WALPOLE and J. B. PRIEST-
LEY. [Dominions Edition.
EMPIRE LIBRARY
New Volumes.
Expiation
By the author of “Elizabeth and
Her German Garden.”
The Times Literary Supplement :—“A
comedy of the elderly and the old, as deft, as
witty as anything ‘Elizabeth’ has ever done.”
Portrait in a Mirror
By CHARLES MORGAN.
Spectator : “ ‘Portrait in a Mirror’ is a great
novel and a beautiful one.”
Women Are Like That
By E. M. DELAFIELD, author of
“What Is Love?”
[lmmediately.
To be Obtained from all
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
THE WORLD’S LARGEST COMMERCIAL FORESTRY CO.
SUBSCRIBED
SUBSCRIBED
SHARE CAPITAL £235,586
BOND CAPITAL £2,750,000
BANKERS—THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND AND THEIR AGENTS.
SOLE BROKERS —SMITH, W\LIE AND CO., LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN BRANCHES AT MELBOURNE BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE,
PERTH, HOBART AND NEWCASTLE.
For backward children.
Food
Beg. Tuadu iUttg,
There is nothin# better
than Benger’s Food for
backward children. A cup-
ful between meals, and at
bed-time, provides just
what is wanted.
Send for Bengefs Booklet, post free ,
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.,
ISO, George Street, SYDNEY.
XEEING ENGLAND
IT IS EASIER AND BETTER BY CAR.
Speed away Into the open countryside
of rural England, in a Car of your own.
HENLYS will sell you a Car and Guarantee
to repurchase it at a definite price fixed at the
time of buying. This will enable you to
approximate your expenditure of running a
Car, which is cheaper than hiring ; does
away with irritating formalities, and
your car is always at hand to go
wherever you like. You can use
it till the last day of your holiday,
with no worries of trying to find
a purchaser.
HENLYS LEAVE CAR SERVICE 1*
the n ost comprehensive ever evolved.
Send for a Brochure “Seeing England
by Car” giving full particulars, and
when in England call and inspect
our huge and varied selection of
up-to-date models.
HENLYS
England’s Leading Motor Agents.
Devonshire House, Piccadilly ,W. 1
rod 9 Branches in London &. Manchester#
m
//W
mr
3
-
<v
«90fc>
f&
a
3KH&K
.% . * '• v- A. A Free Copy of “Seeing England by Car” will
be sent free on application from the offices of this paper, 214 Street North, Sydney.
r
uhehand that holds
the" VENUS"
plans the World
ihe tirsi rough suggestion—the skilful
and accurate working out, the sharp
detailed drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
constructive effort, call for the use of VENUS
PENCILS Whether it be for the building of a
battle-ship or the design of a simple household
article, the pencil is the first requirement: the
VENUS the first pencil.
w
17 Blacklead Degrees 68-9 H sd. each -4/9 per aozen, Super Copying (Medium & Hard) 6a.
each - 5/9 per dozen. Venus Copying (Medium & Hard) 4d. each - 3/9 per dozen.
FRAGRANT, MILD, COOL
liib
RAIC and aitken \SYDKEY CLUB^Rs’IL^CICAR^FACTOaV
u
a
Ill'
The satisfying, mellow flavor of
Club Reil Cigars comes of care-
ful selection and curing of the
tender Havana leaf best suited to
Australian taste. Club Reil
Cigars are pleasantly mild. Their
high quality is absolutely depen-
dable. Order by post, as under,
if unobtainable locally.
Box of 10, 5/6; posted 6/-
25, 12/-
50, 23/-
100, 45/-
12/6
23/0
46/
FPL292
S 3
In Days of 01<3
White hair wai
all the vogue.
In modern dayi
grey or whit*
hair is consid
ered a sign oi
appr oachini
age.
It is NOT “THE
THING.”
All traces of Grey can readily be removec
by an application of
Dr. Allen’s (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
Sold at all Chemists and Stores.
Harmless, easy
to apply, can-
not be detected
Australian Agents:
DUERDIN AND
SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street,
Melbourne.
m
FOR ALL SPORT
BUY
THE SPORTING GLOBE
The Leading Australian Authority with the largest
staff of Sporting Experts and Special Representative!
in all States. The staff includes: —
“MUSKET” Th ® TmT
“BAIL” Cricket
W. S. SHAKLAND Football
PAT O’HARA WOOD Tennis
,T. J. MAHER Cycling
J. M. DILLON G° lf
A. L. DOBBIE Rowing
TOM MORLEY Coursing
MAURIE COLLINS Bowls
H. C. BROOKE Yachting
New South Wales edition available—
every Thursday, price 3d.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
HAS ACCEPTED
Wye Register
NEWS PICTORIAL
with the utmost enthusiasm.
ALL THE NEWS!
ALL THE PICTURES!
The State’s First Morning
Pictorial.
Largely increased Sales
already assured.
Arrange Contracts at
present rates.
HEAD OFFICE: REGISTER NEWS-
PAPERS, LIMITED, Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative: Eric K. Birks,
Sydney. Tel. X 5187.
Melbourne Representative: G. N.
Bednall, “Argus” Building, Mel-
bourne. Tel. F4SO2.
“THE AGE ”
Established 185 U.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS! —
If your sales in Victoria have not reached
the high level which the quality and price of
your products demand, include
“THE AGE”
in future allocations for the State. By this
means your sales message will enter the homes
and offices of
123,533
daily subscribers
who have confidence in the publication which
for 74 years has been the BUSINESS BUILDER
that discriminate advertisers have long esteemed
and valued.
“THE AGE” PUBLISHES OVER
1,000,000 ADVERTISEMENTS
ANNUALLY.
Advertising Rates on application to the principe-
Service Agents in all States, or
DAVID SYME & CO..
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
SIMPLEST WAY TO
STOP INDIGESTION
If you suffer after eating, try this simple plan: ti
three Para-Pepsin tablets during your meal and r
results. No pain! Just a hearty meal, and a frs
rate feeling afterwards. No drowsiness! Para-Pep-
is a great remedy for digestive troubles —much bfitf
than anti-acids or bismuthnted magnesia. And Pa'i
Pepsin costs only two shillings at the chemist’s. *
[ little for such quick, reliable relief 1


S?
4
(A
fellas
‘h
' J -1
X /•
\ 'V\
i
\
W
J
EGYPT
Always a land of world-interest,
Egypt has held a deeper sig-
nificance since 1914. Even to the
untravelled, such names as The
Mouskie, Shepheard’s, Mena, Helio-
polis, are familiar. A Cairo street
is a kaleidoscope of race and color
—a veritable melting-pot of the
nations. Orient Line passengers can
avail themselves of a Special Ex-
cursion to Cairo, leaving the ship
at Suez and rejoining at Port Said
And Egypt is only one of the
Orient Line’s several ports of
call on the voyage to England.
ORIENT LINE
Ohe Bab ZuaieiLeh
Cairo
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE DESERT SONG
ROYAL: PAVLOVA
(Commencing Saturday).
CRITERION: YOUNG WOODLEY
PALACE: NO. 17
(Commencing Saturday).
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
* MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
THE VAGABOND KING.
ROYAL:
THIS YEAR OF GRACE.
ING 'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LEON GORDON in
THE GHOST UPSTAIRS.
MEW COMEDY THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT,
RUTH NUGENT and ALLAN BUNCE in
KEMPY.
U OYT ’S D E LUXE THEATRE,
* * MELBOURNE.
PHYLLIS HAVER in
TENTH AVENUE.
ALSO
THEODORE VON ELTZ in
THE GREAT MAIL ROBBERY.
AMAZING
HAIR GROWER
Six out of eight are bald or grey at 40, yet very
few need be. The hair roots can be stimulated to
new life very quickly by a new scalp-invigorating
preparation known as “Vi-Glo.” This acts on the
growth and color cells much as rain acts on a
parched plant. So long as the hair roots and color
glands are not dead (and they rarely die), “Vi-
Glo” will show remarkable results, growing new
youthful hair and restoring color to fading hair.
Ask your chemist lor a 3/- package of “Vi-Glo”
to-day, or send 3/4 for outfit to Vi-Glorier.t Co.,
Kembla Building, Sydney. Satisfaction guaranteed.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Legal Notices.
A NYONE knowing the whereabouts of
MRS. JOHN RODEKIRCHEN, form-
erly of West Rockhampton (also known as
Mary Brown, or Wagner), please com-
municate with the undersigned.
HOBLER & POWELL, Solicitors,
Rockhampton, Queensland.
IN the matter of “The Public Curator Acts
A 1915 to 1924” and in the matter of the
Will and Codicil of WILLIAM CRAIG
late of Caboolture, Queensland, Re-
tired Parmer Deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given that ROBERT
CRAIG a son of the above-named deceased
or any person knowing his whereabouts is
requested to communicate with the Public
Curator Brisbane on or before the Thirteenth
'day of October 1929 and that after the ex-
piration of that date the Public Curator will
proceed to distribute the assets of the said
deceased amongst the parties entitled thereto
without regard to any claim by the said
Robert Craig.
DATED this Third day of April, 1929.
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Official Solicitor to the Public Curator,
Brisbane, Queensland.
To Let.
pLAT To Let at Manly (N.SW.). Mag-
A nificent position ; owner going to England
for one year. Three bedrooms, lounge, dining-
room, front balcony. Roman bath. Garage
if desired. Putting-green. W. R. ROSS,
114 a Pitt Street, Sydney. 8W6922.
imr
m
k
A
5
THMA
"□WDE*
For the relief of
ASTHMA, CATARRH,
WHOOPING COUGH,
BRONCHITIS and
COLD IN THE HEAD
hor outdoors, use Potter s
Smoking Mixture and Cigarettes
2/6 per Tin from all Medicine
Vendors.
POTTER &CLABKE, Ltd
. Artillery Lane,
W London, End. >
MM
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISDANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Sociel Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
His Ex. and Lady Goodwin had a dinner
party at Government House, when Colonel
and Mrs. Lorenzo and Miss Lorenzo were
invited to meet Colonel and Mrs. Craven,
Major and Mrs. C. Clowes, the Jack Turners,
Dorothy Hawthorn, Miss O’Shea and others.
Lady Goodwin went to see 40 wee children
play the Story of Christ at the Paddington
Kindergarten. Mrs. Ross-Munro is presi-
dent of this branch, and Mrs. Harry
L'Estrange treasurer.
Her Ex. also went to the Bush Nurses’
annual meeting, when Mrs. E. S. Jackson
was again made president. Lieut.-Gov. Len-
non presided over the meeting, and tliore
were speeches by Mayor Jolly, Archbishop
Sharp and Freda Bage. St. Vincent Welch,
chief medico for the Department of Instruc-
tion, also had bis say, and Archbishop Duhig
spoke of the blindness caused by neglected
sandy-blight in the West.
Rhoda M. Felgate, whose dreamy eyes
are pictured here, has just gained another
distinction in elocution and has been ad-
mitted as a
Fellow of
Trinity Col-
lege, London.
She passed the
Licentiate ex-
amination with
high marks.
The clever
miss studied
under Barbara
Sisley and has
taken a lead-
ing part in
amateur theat-
rical produc-
tions in this
city; recently
playing Mrs.
Malaprop in
“The Rivals”
with great suc-
cess. Her
study of the
mother in
“Jane Clegg” was equally striking. Born
in London, Miss Felgate came to Australia
as an infant. She has made a special study
of modern poets, their lives and works, and
is also an exponent of Dickens and Shaks-
peare.
Mrs. Morton Tweedie, who goes forth to
ask why every woman shouldn’t have a vote
and other things, was entertained at Ascot
by Mrs. A. B. Rowley in a setting of African
daisies, Mrs. Tweedie wearing maize color.
The Women’s Non-party Association also
gave her a farewell at Mrs. M. 11. Arundel’s
home, which was decorated with red roses
and gerberas. Mrs. Tweedie wore mist-grey
georgette.
Winifred Ponder, the lady who wrote Dame
Clara Butt’s much-discussed “autobiography,”
is back after two and a half years’ absence,
having been to India, where she met Gliandi
and Sir Rabindranath Tagore. She brings
a sheaf of notes on Malaya with the idea of
writing a book.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
For the autumn race meeting the weather
was seasonable —which means that it was
perfect. The velvet lawns gave no hint
of the long, dry summer, and a riot of color
in the flower beds had a background of
yellow foliage. The grandstand was well
filled, and the v.-r. cubby-hole was decked
with palms and pot-plants. Her Ex. chose
pigeon-greys, and Mrs. lverr-Pearse sported
merging tones of violet. Secretary Marillier’s
wife was in black, with a black velour hat.
Mrs. J. L. B. Weir, wearing navy and a red
hat, chaperoned a daughter in beige. Navy
satin fashioned Mrs. Deakin’s gown and
Dot Cadd’s smart frock with its lame acces-
sories ; Phyllis Hadley wore loquat-yellow;
Audrey Thiel, pink; and Mrs. Paton, mush-
room-georgette with lace insertions. Mrs.
Pat Savage was among the wearers of flow-
ered voiles. A robe whose satin sheen
matched the bougainvillaea of the hedges was
the choice of Mrs. Arthur Francis.
On the second day wise feminine punters
slipped into garments as diaphanous as their
Cup raiment. Mrs. Ernest Lee Steere re-
lieved her navy romaine with a flesh-pink
vestee; Mrs. Lloyd wore Sahara georgette;
Mrs. P. B. Durack, black satin with dashes
of white; and Mary Craven, a medley of
cool green spots on a ninon frock. Mrs.
Langlois Lefroy chose purple velvet for her
toque, worn with a beige gown.
Ideal weather blessed the five days of the
King’s Park tennis tournament. The ladies’
championship wreath now rests on the
youthful brow of Miss Peter Smith. Pretty
Mrs. Schlesinger, wearing ivory georgette
and a hat of wood-nymph brown, watched
her husband win the singles championship,
her sister, Maud Sholl, accompanying her m
white crepe de Chine and a jade felt. White
was also favored by Marjorie Stoddart and
Mollie MeGibbon, and cubist spots adorned
the black background of Eva Saw’s foulard.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The polo club had fine weather for its
week of festivity, which concluded with a
gymkhana that attracted a large crowd. The
Governor arrived by aeroplane. Captain
Grosvenor, aviator as well as A.D.C.,
bringing off a skilful landing in the centre
of the ground. Sir Alexander afterwards
presented the trophies. Mrs. E. Patterson.
Mrs. Sydney Ayers, Patricia Bowman and
Miss Fetherstonhaugh were among the prize-
winners.
For the A.R.C. meeting at Victoria Park
the weather was distinctly hot, and the many
who had donned new furs were unhappy.
Melbourne gets and Adelaide loses a good
violinist and conductor in W. R. Cade. He
has for years been in charge of variou
theatre orchestras, including the Royal. The
new Regent was his latest, and from it he
goes to the Regent at South Yarra, W. S
May, trumpet player and conductor from
Glenelg, replaces him here.
At Urrbrae Mrs. A. V. E. Richardson
gave a luncheon party to farewell Mrs.
M. B. Mellor, who is leaving for Calcutta,
and to welcome back Mrs. S. W. Pennycuick,
who, with her husband, the Prof., has just
returned from America; and also Alys
McNeill, of Victoria.
Mrs. John Bonython gave a tea party at the
Queen Adelaide Club as a farewell to her
sister-in-law, Ada Bonython, who left by
the Orford on a trip to England with her
uncle and aunt, Mr. and Mrs. Cecil Bray.
The floral decorations were in autumn
shades—bronze and flesh-pink dahlias, mixed
with crimson foliage—and the tea-table was
massed with sunset roses and autumn leaves.
Mrs. Bonython wore an electric-blue maro-
cain ensemble and hat to match. Miss Bony-
thon’s sports suit was worn with a small
navy felt hat.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
A tremendous rainstorm that swept the
island towards the end of last week caused
floods in most northern districts, and many
lives have been lost —how many can’t be told
till the waters have fully receded. There have
been inundations at Burnie, in tne n.-w., and
at Ross and Avoca, near the east coast, and
the breaking of a mine dam near Derby, on
the Cascade Valley, swept away miners’
homes and drowned men, women and children.
The northern suburbs of Launceston have
been under water—in one part the flood cov-
ered the housetops—’and in the northern city
itself thg Brisbane-street area has been
flooded to a depth of four feet, At time of
writing road and rail communications with
the North are disorganised. Relief measures
have been vigorously organised in all parts,
but the-loss of life and property is without
precedent in the Speck's history of storm
and flood. According to the latest count
about 40 persons are missing.
The T.R.C. meeting at Elwick was held
in perfect weather, but the attendance was
the thinnest on record. Mr. and Mrs. Tom
Lyons fed their guests in the tea pavilion
and found the entertainment not much of a
strain. Mrs. Lyons sported a dull rose-and-
green patterned satin and a black Bangkok
hat. Summer frocks had a final flutter in
the autumn sunshine, though some women
anticipated winter in tailored suits and furs.
In the throng were Mrs. Reynolds, who, with
her Major, is here during his furlough;
the Fred Grants, the A. J. Millers, Mrs.
Viney, Mrs. George Gibson, Mrs. V. R. Rat-
ten, in georgette of a peachy shade; Mrs.
Huon Walker, in blue: Mrs. Front-Webb,
Mrs. M. I). Williams, the Lindsay Millers,
Joi Chapman, smartly tailored; Miss Fen-
wick, of Sydney; and Mrs. Kay and her
daughter Eld, of Melbourne.
Ross, just before its flood experience,
had a social flutter due to the pres-
ence of a military encampment. To
save the soldiery from ennui in the.
evenings many dances were given. > The
culmination was a military ball at the drill-
hall. General ' Chauvcl came with the
Eustace Camerons and party, and they were
welcomed by the commander of the field
troops, Colonel Cox Taylor. The naicest
folk of the Midland district and contingents
from Hobart and Launceston rolled up to the
ball, which was preceded by a luncheon at
which Colonel Cox Taylor entertained an
army of guests, including the O’Grady, Gen-
eral Chauvcl, Major-General Barber, Brig.-
General Martin, the Elliott Lewises, Bishop
Hay and his wife, the Eustace Camerons,
and Colonel and Mrs. J. E. C. Lord.
The Gymkhana, held on the last day, was
rather suddenly brought to a conclusion by
an inconsiderate thunderstorm, but otherwise
the camp was treated well by the weather.
Dorothy Osborne, flood-ridden Launces-
ton’s young
Mayoress, who
has taken on
the job of as-
sisting her
father in his
civic capacity,
is a traveller
w h o knows
the Old World
well, but loves
her adopted
: sland (she is
S. Australian-
born) best of
all. When last
in England
she motored
over 5000
miles through
the country.
A keen lover
of animals,
one of her
, chief interests
lies in the work of the S.P.C.A. Vaudry
Robinson made the picture.
NORTHERN TERRITORY.
Darwin.
The Victoria League, at its annual meet-
ing, was told that it had had a most success-
ful year. The bush hospitals had been well
supported ; socials and dances had been held
and there was an entertainment for the
kiddies oil Empire Day. There was regret at
the retirement of Mrs. Worgau from Im-
position as secretary, a position that she
had held for more than 13 years; and she
was elected an honorary life member i\lr«
N. Campbell takes her place.
The First Darwin Troop of Boy Scouts
gave a party at which the gold medal for
the best signaller m the troop was handed
to Arthur Scott. Two smaller scouts who
tied for second place also received awards.
A hotel license has been granted to Mrs
Nellie Fisher, boarding-house at
Mataranka. a hamlet which is growiim since
the extension of the railway there & Mrs
Fisher's brings the number of' hotels
in North Australia up to nine, of which three
are in Darwin and the rest out back


m
m
:
’i :/ ;T ; :
• '■ '*> . ".. „ *►' * ;. A” ■ •*
*■ * .>*'• . i* • v *
■
' , * A? , V,. •.% J ' . -V v .' •' , *' .'.\
" ... •• , '" ; *♦ 'V ./* ' *«" \^:*V
im
. #*
W
: ■ - h.
&
W-,
-4: *»
> •
>ir ■>
i
~ a&i
If
■MM?'*- '»■ n»»»w:w'»8ko«
tv v -V
s
t
I
1
Where there is
Real Work to do
you will find
REPUBLIC
TRUCKS
To stand up to hard work, the big jobs of industry, as
Republic has done for years, is still doing and is even
better able to do than ever, is one of many obvious argu-
ments for the choice of this truck. Republic designers
build their trucks with their minds concentrated upon the
work the trucks will have to do. The Republic factory is
constantly alert to find and apply any possible method of
adding to Republic’s widely-known efficiency. There are
more Republic trucks in use than those of any other
individual truck manufacturer. That statement speaks
for itself; when you decide on a Republic you are casting
your vote with the majority of truck operators; you are
buying a truck that has been tested and proved to be as
efficient as human skill can make it.
w
INTERSTATE DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177-185 William Street, Sydney.
Queensland:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency.
(Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
Western Australia:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
Victoria:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
South Australia:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Weymouth Street, Adelaide.
New Zealand:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets,
Wellington.
Factory Distributors: W. A. CROWLE, LTD., Crowle House, 105 York Street, Sydney.


Make the Grosvenor
your Adelaide Home
*
>.i4r i
vv *•> V
;.x
Over 300 taste-
fully furnished
rooms, spacious
writing- room,
cheerful lounge,
beautiful dining
hall, pe r feet
cuisine; every
attention. Ade-
laide’s largest,
most modern
hotel. Tariff
from £3 10/-
•weekly.
Write for infor-
mation booklet.
50OSVENOR
dAdeixudes Finest Unlicensed. DioteL
Opp. Railway Stn. . North Terrace
ẃ
THE SALTED CLAIM
By J.K. PATON
Illustrated by Aria.
“A mere skeleton : the effort of digging was
a heavy tax. He seemed glad of the
excuse to sit down."
WHEN old Joe Spence, coming home to
prepare his dinner, saw Tom Graves,
the carrier, stop his lorry and un-
load a man, a woman and a small boy and
girl, together with a suitcase or two, he was,
as he told his mates at least a dozen times
during the next few days, “fair flabbygarsted,
as the sayin’ is.” And well he might be;
for with the exception of a cocky farmer
here and there, he and his three fellow old-
age pensioners were the only inhabitants of
the district, though back in the “good old
days,” when gold could be picked up at the
grass-roots, there had been a population of
seventy thousand—thirty thousand white
people and forty thousand Chinese!
Tom Graves was now the only regular
connection between the district and the out-
side world. He carried the mails, and ran
his motor-lorry between Halstead and
Muroo, two of the larger country towns,
fifty miles apart. The scattered population
in between relied on Tom for their bread
and meat, and for an occasional bottle when
funds would run it, as well as -for the news
of what was taking place in their small
world.
Old Joe stared at the stranded family with
the candid curiosity of liis kind, and when
the man came forward met him eagerly.
“Can you tell me where Jack Phillips’s
house is, please?” the newcomer asked Joe.
“Why, yes, mate; but old Jack Phillips
is dead, as the sayin’ is. An’ Constable
Peters locked an’ sealed the door so no one
can get in. Yes, that’s so.”
“I have the key and a letter from his
sister giving me possession,” the man
answered. “So if you will direct me to it
I’ll be greatly obliged.”
“Just so, mate —just so. I’ll take you
over to old Jack’s hut —leastways, old Jack’s
hut that was.”
The exploration party lost no time in get-
ting to its job. Joe led off at once.
“That’s Tim Doyle’s,” he said as they
passed a log hut with mud-plastered walls
and bark roof. “Tim D-o-y-l-e,” he con-
tinued in his precise manner. “There’s him
an’ me an’ Bill Evans an’ Larry Hartigan
lives close round here, as the sayin’ is. Bill
Evans he’s seventy-eight, and Larry Harti-
gan is about the same. Tim Doyle he’s
seventy-two, an’ I’m the baby—as near as I
can reckon it, I’m only seventy. Perhaps
you’ve heard of me? I’m Joe Sf>ence, the
man that discovered the big nugget in 1900.
Three pounds it was; leastways thirty-three
ounces, which is near enough.”
The little man drew himself up to his
full height of five feet four inches, and strut-
ted along like the game little bantam he was.
The stranger seemed to consider that he
was expected to introduce himself. “My
name is Ward,” he said. “Arthur Ward.
This is my wife, and these are my two child-
ren. Allen and Betty.”
Joe stopped and held his hat in his hand.
“How are you, Missis Ward?” he said in his
best I’ve-been-to-Sydney manner; “I’m very
pleased to meet you, as the sayin’ is.”
That evening the four sturdy-spirited old
men who sought to add to their meagre pen-
sions by fossicking for gold foregathered in
old Joe’s hut to discuss the coming of the
Ward family. Such an event afforded them
a stimulus greater than they had known for
many a day, and it was at the very height
of their wildly-speeulative discussion that
Ward himself appeared in the open door-
way.
It was only Joe’s eagerness to do the
honors of the occasion that saved the. others
from confusion. He invited their visitor in,
and assumed the role of master of ceremonies
with pomp and dignity. He introduced Mr.
Ward to Mr. Doyle, to Mr. Hartigan and
to Mr. Evans, with fulsome remarks regard-
ing his mates, and many repetitions of “as
the sayin’ is.” That duty completed, he up-
ended a block of wood, and invited his guest
to the seat of honor near the fire.
After what seemed ages to the four garru-
lous old men, who were itching to know
what he had to say to them, Ward appeared
suddenly to remember their presence, and
lifted his head. His face looked terribly hag-
gard and ..worn in the fitful glow of the log
fire, and he spoke in a listless monotone
which affected his listeners strangely.
“I have been out of work for over a year,”
he said abruptly, “and I have come com-
pletely to the end of my resources. Mrs.
Rose—Jack Phillips’s sister —told me her
brother lived here for fifteen years, and that
he found a good bit of gold occasionally.
She offered me his house to live in, and, as
everything else seemed hopeless, I sold my
furniture and have come here to see if I can
earn a living. I don’t know anything about
gold-mining or prospecting,” he continued,
“and if you would allow me to watch you
at work for a day or two so that I could
get some idea of how to go about it, I would
be very grateful to you.”
A chorus of assurance that they would
show him how and where to look for the
elusive metal was the immediate response.
For a time a babble of advice, utterly in-
comprehensible to Ward, showered upon him
as each of the four advocated his own par-
ticular method.
At last Tim Doyle was given the chance
he had repeatedly asked for.
“Ye see, Mr. Ward,” he said, “all of ns
has his own way of working. Larry Harti-
gan, for instance, is a hard-rock miner, an’
he seeks gold in the. reef; but it is hard
work. When he does find stone carrying
gold he has to blast and dig out a load an’
send it to Halstead for crushing; an’ some-
times there’s not enough gold in the load to
pay for the cartage.”
“Didn’t I get ten ounces to the load once?”
Hartigan interrupted. “An’ by the same
token I can take as much gold out of the
rock without crushing as you can out of
a twelve-foot hole in the ground!”
“Now, Joe here,” Tim went on unper-
turbed. “is just a little fellow, an’ he works
in shallow ground, not being big enough to
throw the dirt out of a hole more than seven
foot deep or so. an’ even then shovelling
mostly air. Yes, yes, Joe, sure we all know
ye can sink a fourteen-foot hole in a day;
but, ye, see. it’s faets we’re telling to Mr.
Ward, not fairy tales.”
Old Bill Evans was glaring at Tim belli-
gerently. He was a big man, was Bill, with
grisly white beard and small, aggressive,
black eyes. He was very sensitive regard-
ing his methods of working, and, though he
tried to justify these, he was not altogether
proud of them. But Tim paid little atten-
tion to his fidgeting.
“Bill here,” Tim went on, “calls himself
a fossicker. He washes the surface dirt, an’
turns over the boulders in the beds of dry
creeks in search of the fine gold the rain-
water brings down.”
“An’ I find more gold than you do,” Bill
declared. “What about that half-ounce speck
I found the other day? Just show me what
you’ve got to equal that!”
“Meself now.” Tim went on with a wave
of his hand at Bill, “I’m seeking new ground
in the old field, an’ when I find it I‘ sink
a hole in it, even if its twenty feet to bot-
tom. But sure new ground is hard to find
now; an’ when you do find it, it’s mighty
little ye get for your trouble. I’ve just
cleaned up in a hole I’ve been in for the last
fortnight, an’ it was hard as the hobs of
Hell, an’ all I can show for me work is two
pennyweights of gold—about six bobs’ worth.
But sometimes you don’t get even that much,
for the gold is very patchy here —always has
been.”
Old Joe brought a small tobacco box over
to Ward.
“Here’s my little lot of gold, Mr. Ward,
he said proudly. “One ounce sixteen penny-
weights, as the sayin’ is.”
Ward took the tin and gazed at the little
heap of fine gold with some show of interest,
and when Bill placed in his hand a piece of
gold about the size and shape of a kidney
bean, his manner became almost animated
with the stirring of fresh hope.
With the coming of the Wards a new and
wonderful stimulus was introduced into the
lives of the four old derelicts. Little Betty
spent the greater part of every day in the
company of one or other of them, and it
was a common thing to see her sitting on
a rock, her arms clasped around her knees,
her eager little face uplifted, as she listened
absorbed to the tales she was told. Many
were the hours she caused them to waste,
but not one of them grudged the time, for
the memories she recalled were, at least,
bitter-sweet. And if some of the tales they
told were pure fiction, they were, at any
rate, the dregs of the dreams of long ago,
and little Betty never questioned them.
The comfortless existence of the four
lonely old men appealed also to the gentle
Mrs. Ward. Her burden of foreboding re-
garding the future for her own family was
heavy enough, but she found many oppor-
tunities for adding to the comfort and the
peeds of her neighbors. When old Bill went
down to an attack of rheumatism, she in-
sisted that he should remain in bed until
he was quite well again. It was a wonder-
ful week for Bill. Never had his hut been
so clean and sweet; his food so tasty or him-
self so comfortable. She was not half the
age of any one of them, but she mothered
them as if they were children—as indeed
they were.
If anything was needed to complete their
subjection, the Sunday-evening concerts sup-
plied the final touch. Drawn from their huts
by the sound of singing, it was a strangely
self-conscious group that huddled under the
shadow of the Wards’ fence the first Sunday
after their' arrival on the field. But that
feeling was soon forgotten in the harmony
of the three voices—Mrs. Ward’s the little
girl’s and the boy’s. Later on they sat every
Sunday on a bench in Ward’s garden, and
Mrs. Ward and the children sang for them
the favorite songs of “dear dead days
beyond recall.”
Meanwhile things were not going well with
Ward. He had abandoned the old ground,
over which the others worked, and had been
trying new ground here and there, but with
no success. He worked from early morning
to almost dark with a feverish energy, which
caused the experienced old prospectors to
shake their heads and prophesy an early
breakdown. But Ward’s reserve and aloof-
ness repelled them, and they could only
speculate on the reason for his strenuous,
unremitting toil.
It was just about three weeks from Christ-
mas that they got an inkling of the real
state of affairs. They had not seen Betty for
some days, except over near her home, and
they were wondering why she was being kept
away from them. Then one day Tom Graves,
the carrier, called Tim Doyle aside and
questioned him about the Wards.
“They have had no flour for three weeks,”
Tom said, “and no bread or sugar or tea for
over a week.”
Tim called a conference of his mates, and
told them what he suspected. Something,
he said, had to be done. But what?
They had no money, for, with the excep-
tion of Joe, it took the pound a week they
received as a pension all its time to purchase
the food they required. Old Joe was a
bit of a miser in this respect, living meanly,
almost entirely on bread. He hoarded liis
money so that he could visit his relations at
Christmas time, and for a brief period bask
in an atmosphere of fame as the man who
discovered the bij? nugget in 1900. To Joe
the gross adulations showered upon him
were more than meat and drink, and to sacri-
fice his yearly visit would be the hardest
thing he could be asked to do.
The small and hardly earned store of
gold, perhaps two ounces apiece, was all the
others had to fall back on. Bill wanted a
new suit, a pair of boots and a couple of
blankets for winter, and, besides, he must
have a bottle for Christmas. For years past
Tim and Larry had visited Halstead at that
time, and the idea of sacrificing their annual
holiday was not alluring. For months they
anticipated the approach of the season, and
though, year after year, they had to walk
the twenty-odd miles back to their homes,
they had no regrets, and would not willingly
forego their fun.
Not one of them had the courage to sug-
gest a levy on their gold to help the Wards,
so their conference ended with the decision
that they would wait a little longer and see
if things did not improve.
The following Sunday little Betty came
over to Joe’s hut and told him that, as her
mother was ill, there would be no concert
that evening. It was then that the four old
men were forced to admit that the Wards
must be in desperate straits —perhaps, in-
deed, starving. It was up to them to do
something.
“We’ve got to give them all we’ve got,”
Tim said decisively. “We owe Mrs. Ward
more than that, anyway.”
And so it was decided. But how to make
the presentation was another matter. Even
old Joe shrank from such a task.
It was then that Larry Hartigan had a
brilliant idea. “I’ll tell you what,” he cried
excitedly. “We’ll salt his claim. As soon
as Ward gets near enough to bottom to
start panning off, we’ll spread our gold all
over the wash dirt. Then he’ll get the sur-
prise of his life.”
The idea appealed to every one of the old
boys. It would be the grandest joke ever
played on anyone. Why, it would be better
fun than a week in Sydney or Halstead!
On the afternoon of the following day, Tim
Doyle, pretending it was purely accidental,
came to where Ward was working.
“It’s here ye are, is it?” he asked. “I
have taken a notion to sink one last hole
before Christmas, an’ it’s yourself has chosen
a likely spot. How are ye getting on?
Anywhere near bottom yet?”
Tim had not seen Ward except at a dis-
tance for some weeks past, and was shocked
at his appearance. He was a mere skeleton ;
and the effort of digging was obviously be-
coming a heavy tax on his weakened system.
(Continued on page 53.)


OIiJK
UfAKANTEK''
This garment it,
guaranteed perfect
manufacture. Examine
thoroughly before
washing and if defec-
tive return to store
from which it was
purchased within
7 days.
'•eo. A. Bond &
Co. Et.l.
And now comes
Super Rayon
with a full
(Guarantee
Natural beauty is something money
cannot buy, but “Charm” is within
the reach of all who are in search
of beauty in underwear.
“Charm” comes to you with a guar-
antee that it is perfect in cut and
finish and the quality of the Soft
Rayon, the best it is possible to use.
RAYON UNDERWEAR
fyO^
W N„,
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY THE EMPLOYEES OF
GEO. A. BOND & CO. LTD. (In Liq.)


■
n
%
fotnsborouyh SAapt
As beauty should
go beautifully—
—. (<PO Beauty should be
in beauty. It is
unthinkable that Milady’s
guests should take tea in cups
less than perfect in elegance
of form and substance. The
name of Shelley (hidden under
every piece) promises no less.
English Bone China, fashion-
ed by hereditary craftsmen in
Shelley’s service, can yield
no more—and this is the envy
of potters the world over!
Ask
to see rue latbst
SHELLEY
Tea S ETS -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery Ware
/y Lucie Attweu
£• Hilda Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
CASt OF any difficulty
OBTAINING
ẅ
GRATIFICATION
in
Actual
Epicurean taste finds perfect
gratification in these famous
Havana Cigars. See full name
on every band.
“la corona
HALF-A-CORONA.
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emora:ds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
BEENIE’S IMPROVED PATENT RI)G.
IT ALWAYS WAS A GOOD RUG,
BUT NOW IT’S A BETTER ONE.
In the new Patent the strapping has been put
underneath where it cannot catch in scrub, etc.,
flank straps keep it in position better, and a leather
fillet strap instead of rope is provided.
“A” QUALITY made of Thomson’s super white
flax canvas lined with all-wool check.
sft. 6in., 51/6; sft. 9in., 53/6; 6ft., 55/-
Add 2/9 per Rug for Freight.
We have other styles, including hind-leg strap Rugs,
belly webbing Rugs as low as 20/6 in sft. 6in. size.
WRITE FOR FULL LIST WITH SAMPLES OF CANVAS.
Sf>>
r &
Cross
STEWART FLEXIBLE SHAFT CLIPPER
THE WELL KNOWN MACHINE THAT DOES BIG WORK.
57/6 Complete. - Freight extra.
It weighs 321 b. packed, so you can calculate freight.
SPARE COMBS, 7/6; CUTTERS, 5/- (Post, 6d.). OLD COMBS AND
CUTTERS SHARPENED, 3/- pair (Post, 6d.).
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON, LTD., 395 gemg^st^ydney.
CAUSTIC SODA
(ELECTROLYTIC)
LIQUID— 32 per cent. N»2O.
POWDERED-98 per cent. NaOH.
SULPHURIC ACID—I.B3 s.g.
SULPHURIC ACID, C.P.—
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
HYDROCHLORIC AClD—
(Muriatic) Commercial, 33%
HYDROCHLORIC ACID, C.P.
Guaranteed chemically pure
by analysis.
CARBON TETRA CHLORIDE.
REFINED CHILEAN SALT-
PETRE
SULPHUR MONOCHLORIDE.
ZINC CHLORIDE.
SULPHATE OF IRON.
POWDERED SULPHUR.
PHOSPHORIC ACID, 70%
PHOSPHATIC COMPOUNDS.
CONCENTRATED SOLDER-
ING AND TINNING FLUXES.
LIQUID CHLORINE
100 per cent, pure Anhydrous
lx\ 100, 150 and 20001 b. Containers.
SODIUM HYPOCHLORITE
MANUFACTURED
the mount lyell chemical works,
Collins House, 381 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
WORKS: YARRAVILLE. VICTORIA.
He was panting, and seemed glad of the
excuse to sit down
“You’re pretty deep here,” Tim said in
nstonishment. “I thought this was all
shallow ground about here—three or four feet
at most!”
tIT , j , , , . „ ■>
“Fm down neaHy eleven feet, Ward told
him. ‘but I have struck the wash now, and
Lll start panning oft to-morrow. ( 111 just
about clean up before Clmstmas.
“I don’t think I’ll come here,” Tim said.
'lt’s too deep to bottom before the holidays,
so I’ll just look round for something easy.
It was very dark that night; only the faint
tight from the glorious star-spangled sky
enabled the four old conspirators to make
their way in safety over the ground littered
with prospect holes to where Ward worked.
With a brace and an inch bit Larry drilled
fioles here and there in the wash dirt, and
into each hole he poured a little of their
lombined precious store of gold.
“Pretty deep wash, Larry remarked. “He’s
givin’ himself a job if lie’s goin’ to pan off
sill that. But it seems pretty good wash,
by the same token—it’s full of quartz.”
So all their gold was disposed of for good
ind all except the half-ounce speck that Bill
had found. This had been retained, not only
because it might reveal the whole conspiracy
to Ward if he recognised it again, but also
because it was their only hope of providing
a bottle or two for Christmas.
Early the next morning they were out to
spy on Ward, hoping he would soon find some
of the gold they had planted in his claim,
They were not disappointed. They saw him
wash the first dish of dirt at the watcrhole,
and by his obvious excitement they knew he
had found gold. lie washed a couple of
bucketsful of dirt, and his feverish energy
was a testimony to his success. Shortly after
his third return to his claim for fresh dirt,
they saw him scramble hastily out of the
and run towards his home,
Never in all their lives had v
reprobates enjoyed themselves so much. They
laughed and slapped one another, as they
“ u]ated on the scene in the Wards’ home
he burst iu upon his family with the
newg of his discovery of go ld.
was aboU f four o’clock that old Joe,
wbo bad been i e f t on guard , hurried in with
the news tbat Ward was coming over. He
came. A new man, vibrating with new-
found hope, and the realisation that at last
his luck had turne d. All his former morose-
negg bad disappeared.
“Come on, hoys,” he shouted, “get ready to
pcg out daims before the rush sets in. I’ve
made the greatest discovery for years. I
got over two ounces of gold in the first dish
j washed to-day!”
“Good luck to ye, boy,” Tim congratulated
him heartily, while the others grinned know-
ingly. “Sure, I knew you would find it. But
do n’t ye get too excited over it,” he cau-
tinned. “The gold hereabouts is very patchy,
as I told ye before; so just go slow for a day
or two an’ see how it pans out.’’
“You old croaker,” Ward laughed gaily,
“If you don’t break your necks in your hurry
to peg out claims after I show you wliat I ve
got, it will be a wonder to me. Now just
tell me what you think of that, will you?’
He drew from his pocket a small leather
hag and carefully poured out its contents on
to a newspaper, and exposed to. their view
a tidy heap of coarse gold—coarser gold than
th«;y had seen for years!
And this. Wind said liimnphanlly. n>
he held up before their bulging eyes a lair-
sized nugget of gold!
The Civilising of Sarong Bantal.
“ FENG-SH UIS”
ANOTHER OF
STORIES OF THE TROPIC SEAS.
ORIGINALLY, except for a few clear-
ings, tlie Sultanate of Sarong Bantnl
was one dense primeval forest. Aloug
the jungle paths an occasional Chinese pedlar
trotted, with one fearful eye cast over his
shoulder on the lookout for head-hunters.
The decrepit capital, standing on stilts at
the mouth of a river, was dominated by the
Sultan’s palace, which was dominated, like
the Sultan, by the royal seraglio. The Sul-
tan claimed descent from, King Solomon and
the moon impartially, but his rule did not
extend more than four hundred yards from
the palace. Periodically, his tax-gatherers,
keeping sociably together, invaded the jungle
to collect income-tax assessments! from the
head-hunters. Sometimes the head-hunters
came down at dead of night and, laid parcels
of wild rubber on the edge of the forest,
and retreated. In the morning the Sultan’s
traders would take the rubber, leaving in its
place such necessities of jungle life as sailor-
hats and alarm-clocks. On these transactions
the Sultan levied a tax of seven-tenths, which
was ample to keep him in opium, fighting-
cocks and imperial consorts.
Thus had life proceeded in the Sultan’s
dominions for as far back as anyone could
remember, and with no more murders and
armed robberies than there are in New York
per thousand of population. One day, how-
ever, the even tenor of existence was inter-
rupted by the advent in a native schooner
of a white man, with a warm smile, a cold
eye and a bag of strange, shining implements.
He was, he explained, a subject of his
Christian Majesty the King of Bulravia, and
was a butterfly collector. The Sultan readily
granted him permission to collect every
butterfly in the country, except yellow ones,
yellow being the royal color.
The white man poked fearlessly about the
jungle for several weeks, though he was never
seen to catch a butterfly. Then he departed
with his boxes full of bits of rock and his
body full of malaria.
The visit of the white man had scarcely
ceased to rival the latest addition to the
royal harem as a topic of conversation when
the capital’s afternoon siesta was rudely
interrupted by the report of a gun mingled
with the scream of a steamer’s siren. Twenty
more reports following without any damage
being recorded, the Sultan decided that it
was meant for a salute, and deferred his
visit of inspection to the far interior.
Inquiry elicited the information that six
white men had come ashore 1 in top-hats and
a ship’s boat, with letters of introduction
from the King of Bulravia, and gifts which in-
cluded a listening-in set, a toy oil-engine and
a universal provider’s illustrated catalogue.
Having been granted an audience they
started up the oil-engine, and while the Sul-
tan impulsively descended from his throne
and proceeded on hands and knees to play
with the ingenious object, their spokesman
explained their mission. They had, it ap-
peared, been advised by their gods that deep
under the soil of Sarong Bantal lay vast
quantities of oil, which, while of no value
to the Sultan, were indispensable to the
citizens of Bulravia. For exclusive rights
in perpetuity over the oil in an area indicated
in blue on a map which they spread out
before the eyes of the inattentive monarch,
they were ready to pay an annuity the size
of which caused the Grand Vizier to have an
apoplectic seizure. If the Sultan wanted
an immediate first instalment he had only to
sign on the dotted line, which he did with
almost indecent alacrity.
For the next few months the chief and
only port of Sarong Bantal became the scene
of unprecedented activity. Vessels arrived
every week and discharged huge packing-
cases, while white men, with the aid of the
Sultan’s subjects, drove roads in all direc-
tions into the interior. Soon the thud of
the boring machinery resounded in forest
glades where nothing had disturbed the
echoes but the tapping of the woodpecker.
One day a messenger reported to the Sultan
that the white men were dancing round a
hole in the ground out of which a dark,
sticky fluid shot like a waterspout.
It was not long before pipelines had been
laid to the coast and wharves built big
enough to accommodate the largest vessels.
Obliged now to work for a living instead of
waiting for Nature to supply it, the in-
habitants of Sarong Bantal rose every
morning, and so did the trade statistics of
their country. Having rebuilt his palace
in reinforced' concrete and become the owner
of fourteen electrically-driven pianolas, as
well as other articles listed in the illustrated
catalogue, the Sultan was heavily in debt to
the oil company.
It was while the Sultan was gloomily sur-
veying the unfinished left) wing of his palace
that he was one day accosted by a stranger.
He looked very much like the other white
men except that his voice and the pattern
of his suit were louder. It was in a whisper,
however, that lie explained that lie was an
unofficial representative of the Republic of
Appalonia, and that he fully understood the
cause of the gloom which sat upon the royal
countenance. The Government of Appalonia,
he said, had always taken a great interest in
the welfare of Sarong Bantal, and had noted
with regret how the monopolistic, grip of
Bulravia was crushing the economic life of
the country. It. was prepared to pay all
the Sultan’s debts, double his annuity and
give him royalties if an exclusive concession
to mine oil was granted in the area tinted
blue on the map he herewith submitted. The
Sultan borrowed the stranger’s fountain-pen
in his haste,to sign the contract.
The stranger went away, but presently
returned in a steamer convoyed by a gun-
boat. There was a fresh burst of activity
in the capital of Sarong Bantal. More
packing-cases arrived and more white men
drove fresh roads into the interior. At this
stage, however, a gunboat flying the Bul-
ravian flag *put in an appearance, and its
captain politely told the Appalonian com-
mander that Sarong Bantal was a Bul-
ravian sphere of influence and that any
infringement of Bulravian interests wou'd
be viewed by his Government with grave
displeasure. Having drunk a final cocktail
he withdrew, and both vessels cleared for
action.
Meanwhile, on the other side of the world,
the Foreign Offices of Bulravia and Appa-
lonia were in hourly communication. While
disclaiming any imperialistic intentions,
Appalonia pointed out that its national honor
forbade it receding one step in its self-
imposed task of uplifting Sarong Bantal.
Nevertheless, it would withdraw if its oil
interests were allowed to purchase 25 p.c. of
the shares of the Bulravian Oil Co., and
if no opposition were put in the way of its
proposed annexation of the neighboring sul-
tanate of Pisang Busok. Bulravia rejected
this offer but hinted that it might consider
10 p.c., plus half-shares in the work of
Civilisation proposed for Pisang Busok. At
this point, however, an Appalonian subject
—he turned out afterwards to be a mentally-
deficient negro who had committed suicide
—was found dead in Sarong Bantal, and
suspicion pointed to the emissaries of Bul-
ravia. Dramatically appearing before his
Senate, the President of Appalonia asked
whether the people of that great and free
republic were prepared to see their fellow-
countrymen indiscriminately massacred. Ex-
cept from a small and noisyi group of
Socialists strongly suspected of being in the
pay of Bulravia, he received a ringing
answer. Historians differ even to-day as
to which Government first gave the order
for mobilisation.
While the World War raged life in Sarong
Bantal, owing to the protection of Bulravian
warships, went on much as usual. By an
interesting coincidence, on the very day that
the Great War was ended, the Sultan’s
new imported fighting-cock inflicted a crush-
ing defeat on that of <die Grand Vizier, after
the most stirring three-round contest ever
witnessed in. Sarong Bantal.
Book Wisdom.
I thought that books could tell me every-
thing
My eager spirit might desire to know;
And so I took my books and let life go
Past me unchallenged and unchallenging.
I made myself apprentice to the old
And to the new. I gathered knowledge out
Of mustiness and motley creed and doubt;
And in my borrowed learning I grew bold.
But I have found that books are not so wise;
And latterly I laid my reading by,
For these whose lives or dreams have filled
the page
Take separate roads, see life with varying
eyes;
And different from all in all am I,
And I must go on my own pilgrimage.
W.A.
ETHEL DAVIES.


King Football
takes the Field.
JIM SULLIVAN, England , the World's Champion Rugby Goal-kicker,
paid a glowing tribute to the “Dally M" Ball.
would like to pay a tribute to the remarkable playing
MESSRS. MICK SIMMONS, LTD.
SYDNEY.
Dear Sirs, —Before leaving Australia
qualities of the famous “Dally M” Ball. . ...
In the third Test, at the Sydney Cricket Ground, Craig, Wearing and myself . ai< •
phenomenal kicking with the “Dally M,” which goes to prove the excellent qualities oj '
A beautifully-balanced ball, perfectly shaped, and of the finest workmanship, l unnesua ig j
say that the “Dally M” is the finest ball I have ever played with.
Wishing you all the success it undoubtedly deserves. SVLJj , VAN Enghnd .
•r “
FOOTBALL
BOOTS.
M.S. Rugger Boots, box hide,
stout, blocked toecaps, and
outside ankle pads, double
now stitching on soles,
studded.
Pair 13/6
“Dally M” Patent Special
Rugby Boots, studded and
with flexible spring.
Pair 18/6
M.S. Fawn English Chrome
Association Boots, blocked toe
and outside ankle pad, with
strap over instep, fitted with
toebar and studs.
Pair 25/-
Mick Simmons * Foot -
ball Catalogue should
be in the hands of
every Club Secretary
and Player. Post
Free.
<*
At
ss
'a"-;
r />
,V.'
%
m
■-*
Wt*
a vr
mm
SvfSSK
1
■ -•>
'O'.V
:>■'
The Wonder Rugby Ball
“DALLY M”
Used in International Fixtures,
Season 1928.
ENGLAND V. AUSTRALIA,
ENGLAND V. N.S.W.
Every ‘‘Dally M” is fully guaranteed.
Price, 22/6
Mick Simmons’ Unrivalled Displays
for all Codes!
RUGBY MATCH FOOTBALLS.
Nicholson’s Royal, strong practice .... 7/-
Nicholson’s Royal, superior hand-sewn,
full size 8/6
Nicholson’s Royal, specially selected,
hand-sewn, full size 12/6
Nicholson’s Royal, special, hand-sewn.
A popular medium-priced ball. . 15/-
School Special Match, hand-sewn .... 15/-
Nicholson’s A.N.A. Special, hand-
sewn. Thoroughly tested and of
perfect shape 20/-
Gilbert’s Best English 27/6
Ford’s Interstate 22/6
SOCCER MATCH FOOTBALLS.
Nicholson’s 8 panel 8/6
Nicholson’s Special, 8 panel, hand-
sewn 106
Rival, 8 panel, hand-sewn 13/6
Special Capless, hand-sewn 18 6
Official League, 1 2 panel, hand-sewn, 22/6
Haymarket, 8 panel, waterproof, hand-
sewn 20/-
Diamond, 12 panel, hand-sewn .... 21/-
The “Cert.” 1 2 panel, selected chrome,
perfect shape, hand-sewn, water-
proof 25/-
Sykes’ Tuphine, 1 2 panel, English Ball, 35/-
Unbeatable Value in
FOOTBALL JERSEYS
9/9 each 112/- dozen
Mick Simmons offer a better Rugby Jersey at a lower price. Made from the finest quality
knitting yarns, with extra strong drill collar and untearable button front, it will stand up to
some rough tackling and hard wear. To be had in all Men s Sizes in leading Club Stripes
and Plain Colors.
FOOTBALL STOCKINGS.
3/9 pair 40/- dozen pairs
All Wool, double turn-over tops, reinforced
toe and heels. All sizes.
SHIN GUARDS.
Shin Guards, Stout Twill, with tapes,
pair 1/3
Shin Guards, Stout Basil, with con-
tinuous straps and buckles, pair, 2/9
Shin Guards, Brown Basil, large con-
tinuous leather straps and buckles,
pair 3/9
Shin Guards, Gold Cape, extra large
continuous straps and buckles, pr., 5/9
FOOTBALL KNICKERS.
4/6 pair 48/- dozen pairs
Extra strong drill, with elastic top or fly
front. White or Navy Blue. All sizes.
ANKLE GUARDS.
Ankle Guards, solid blocked leather, pr., 3/9
ANKLE SUPPORT STRAPS.
Ankle Support Straps, with double
buckle, pair • • • 3/6
(Carriage Paid on all Football Material.)
a
ic
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket, Sydney.
“Australia’s Largest Sports Outfitters. "


i* • 1111111 if ihin
7'o be healthy
drink
the finest
tonic food
In 4 sizes drink
of all Chemists
and Stores
UUllimilllllim.it....m..ll
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan. Esa.:
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking bus’iness.
Saves 100 Shovels !
THE MARTIN DITCHER will do the
work of a hundred men at a fraction
of the cost. It is the most useful tool
on any Australian farm. Write us
for illustrated leaflet and particulars.
w
The Old Way
■an
The New.
ŵ
CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
168-170 Edward Street, Brisbane.
T.T. Building, Light Square, Adelaide.
51 Royal Arcade, Barrack Street, Perth.
PRICE
£35
B.K.
ẁ
Clothes for Men
and Their Sons
**?
For Men of the
Saddle^
The “MEXICAN”
Riding Boot
A patent Riding Boot exclusive to Pike
Brothers. Proved and preferred by
thousands of Australian stockmen. Two-
fold strapped tops make the boot grass-
proof and seed-proof. In Black Calf.
Black Wallaby or Tan Calf. 'l'J 1/1
Double weight screwed soles 3jLI O
Pike Brothers
Limited
In Queen Street, Brisbane
Australia. If the Sydney police could lay
Neigre by the heels before he could kick
anyone, and strangle him before he could
speak, there might be some chance for him,
Carducci, to escape; but he could not see
his luck lying that way. Rather did he
trust to a knife thrust in Neigre’s hack
some day; maybe some day when Monsieur
"La Savate” forgot that Antonio Saccaco
-till bad a sting in him.
Carducci’s wife reproached her husband,
saying that he was an evil man to make
such a boast of his knife. Later she con-
fided to Carducci that St. Catharine had
told her, in a dream, that her husband
would yet call on the saints and they would
not hear him, and that the day would come
when he would want her, Jeannette, and
she too would not help him.
‘Tool you to believe St. Catharine!”
said her husband.
It soon became the custom of Neigre to
go at night to the eating-house and have a
meal there. But there was no trust betwe *n
them; Neigre was careful what he drank,
and always insisted that Carducci should
drink with him. Each week he collected
five pounds from the. Italian and often
demanded more, and Carducci saw with
alarm that the leech would have most of
his money if he did not shake him off. In
an early effort to do so Carducci offered to
find him a passage to any part of the
world. Sydney, he explained, was an excel-
lent port to escape from. Vessels came
there from the four points of the com-
pass and tied up at the wharves that fringe
its land-locked harbor of blue water. Neigre
thanked his friend, but replied that he was
well content to stay for a while and enjoy
the daily sight of such a beautiful harbor,
with its ocean liners, steamer tramps and
sailing ships, all of which he well knew
were potential avenues of escape.
As Neigre now left the woman every
night in her room, Mrs. Carducci and Marie,
in a friendly way, asked her to spend some
of her cheerless hours with them. Willingly
she promised to do so, and soon she came
often and remained until such time as
she heard the steps of her man on
the stairs. The companionship of Mrs. Car-
ducci and Marie, compatriots, speaking
French, meant a great deal to the storm-
tossed convict woman.
Night after night at nine o’clock Mrs. Car-
ducci sat on a box before the whitewashed
open fireplace, coaxing a few sticks to burn
wherewith to prepare their three cups of
coffee. She let Marie and the woman
carry on most of the conversation, but she
listened. Not a word escaped her. She was
seldom idle, mending and making clothes
and knitting, and while doing so she seemed
indifferent to their sordid home. The de-
pressing life saddened Marie. She longed,
with a heartbreak, for the days of sunshine
on the Murray, for the fresh Riverina air
and the open spaces of plain and valley,
for a sight of the old gums, the vineyards,
the merry days of fruit picking; and—
though of this she spoke no word—for the
return of her hours of love with Gerald
Deacon!
At first their visitor spoke with hesita-
tion, but by degrees slipped into the depths
of confidences, and told the story of her
suffering. She described how she had once
been as happy as a butterfly on a sunny
day; how, when she was out of her ’teens,
she lived only to gratify every fancy and
to be spoilt by her lovers, who were mostly
artists. Then she married one of them;
but marriage was the end of love, so she
ended marriage and opened the way for
love to come back to her. Ah, it was then
love came, with the great passion, the
passion that flamed so that it killed!
The woman’s confidences brought her and
Mrs. Carducci much closer. Both of them
had sought to capture happiness in
their own way, and both when the
evening came knew they had failed.
Both of them worshipped the spirit
within the grey-walled churches of
Paris, and the shrines wherein for centuries
humanity had prayed and where there was
a daily burning of incense. Each had her
patron saint. The woman confided that hers
was St. Anthony of Padua; and Mrs. Car-
ducci said “Ah, oui!” in a tone that con-
veyed she was not surprised, since the
majority of the demi-mondes of Paris burn
tapers to St. Anthony.
Ihe woman, in the mental atmosphere
of saints and churches, made more intimate
confessions to Mrs. Carducci when they
were alone. She told in a whisper, and
made the sign of the Cross, that St. Anthony
had always answered her prayers.
It was he who had saved her at sea.
Her husband had tried to throw her out
of the boat.. Non, non, it was only that
poor Francois loved life so much! The
boat was sinking, and she kept bailing the
water out till she could not lift the
bucket any more. Francois cursed, and
told her the boat would float better if it
had not the weight of a cocotte and of her
sins in it. He tried to undo her locked
hands from the seat whereto she clung.
J hen she prayed to St. Anthony to give
her strength to cling as a good" Christian
clings to the Cross. Francois beat her on
the head, then he drew a knife to kill her
so that he might throw her the more easily
into the sea. But St. Anthony had heard
her prayer. And then the blessed saint
sent a ship to find them, she and Francois
who were lost. Poor Francois’s soul was
saved, too, from the stain of murder. Non,
non! The terrible struggle had affected
poor Francois’s reason, and he was not to
blame. Lc Bon Dieu know that!
While there was boundless pity in Mrs.
Carducci’s heart for the woman, Marie’s
chief interest in her lay in her stories of
the life of a Parisian butterfly, and not in
the sequel of such brief days of joy. Again
and again Marie questioned her about her
experiences in the Latin Quarter and at
Montmartre.
When the woman spoke of such times
she sparkled. She talked quickly in French
and broken English. She swept along, ani-
mated with her own descriptions of bals
masques, salles de danse and the bal dcs
artistes. She would tell anecdotes of artists
and droll stories of how she and her cousin,
who was also a model, were mistaken for
one another, often with diverting conse-
quences. "La, la!” she said laughing,
“Mademoiselle, we made such fun of the
men.”
“And your cousin—is she still a model
in Paris?” asked Marie.
"Helas, non!” exclaimed the woman, mak-
ing the sign of the Cross. “She—she- die.
Ah, so sad, so very sad!”
Marie was silent, but curious, and she
waited; but the woman did not say any
more.
Presently the talk began again. They
were both called Lisette, she said, she and
her cousin; so the artists, to distinguish
them one from the other, called her Lisette,
and her cousin Piquante. Helas, they
were both born under an unlucky star. Their
lovers came, their lovers went.
"La, la! So droll, so sad. Pauvre Piqu-
ante! She was too young to die!”.
The woman gave a shiver of horror. She
saw the cold waters of the Seine and the
colder slabs of the Paris Morgue. She saw
Piquante, pauvre Piquante’s nude body,
lying on the slab, and above her head,
hanging from a hook, the clothes that she
was wearing when her body was fished out
of the Seine. Piquante was so proud of
her body— “La petite Venus” —and to show
it to artists; yes, but to the idlers visiting
the Morgue, no!
“Pauvre Piquante! Ah, as we say, the
dead are alw r ays wrong.”
She paused, and became lost in thought.
Mrs. Carducci looked up from her knit-
ting.
The Frenchwoman brushed her hand
across her face as if she was trying to sweep
away a cobweb of unpleasant memory.
1 hen, suddenly, she began to speak again.
“La, la! And I married a young student
from Australie! For two months life was
—what you call it? Oui! exquisite. Too
little time did it stay with us. He spent
every franc; then he left me. La! Such
is the life! I weep. Helas, it is too sod.”
Mrs. Carducci’s needles dropped a stitch.
“An Australian?” queried Marie in sur-
prise. “What was his name?”
“Aon! Non! Non!” she exclaimed
quickly, shaking her head. “I could not
tell you his name. No! No! To tell
you is not wise—you compassionate me,
do you not?”
“Is he alive?” asked Mrs. Carducci, speak-
ing for the first time.
“I do not know,” replied the woman.
Mrs. Carducci resumed her knitting.
A footstep was heard on the lower stairs.
The woman started up, and listened; but
before she could leave the room Carducci
pushed open the door and entered. He
waved a paper in the air.
“Mistere Felspar has sold the picture—
ah, for much money, so it”—he tapped the
paper—’“say here.”
Marie snatched the paper from her
father’s hand, crying excitedly—“ Let me
see! Let me see!”
She read aloud and hurriedly the para-
graph that Carducci put his fat finger on:
The well-known artist Mr. Edward Fel-
spar, whose picture oj “Marketing in
Paris” created so much interest, has sold
it to a well-known connoisseur for a sum
that has not been disclosed. It will be re-
called that Mr. Felspar, who had the advant-
age of an art course in Paris, “discovered”
the model who sat for the principal figure
under somewhat romantic circumstances.
Mr. Felspar is, we understand, going shortly
to join the ranks of the Benedicts. The
friends of both parties are delighted at his
success.
“Monsieur Felspar? Is that the artist’s
name?” asked the woman, trying to conceal
her agitation.
“Yes, Edward Felspar. Marie posed for
him. Do you know him?”
“Mon Dieu! Mon Dieu! I met him in
Paris.”
Her agitation betrayed her.
Carducci looked puzzled; then, as a
hound scents its quarry, he caught at
her story.
“Ha, ha! You met him in Paris, you
say?” '
He stood with his broad back against the
shut door, an attitude that frightened the
woman. She felt that she was in a trap.
“Oui! Oui! 11 el as! He—he” she
tried to continue, but could not because of
her nervousness.
“Married you,” said Marie to help her
out of her difficulty.
“Bah! How you know that?” Carducci
bellowed at his daughter.
“Mon Dieu! Oh! Oh! I see it all now,”
cried Marie, speaking rapidly in French.
“I was sure I had seen your face before.
I said so in Mr. Brush Lock’s studio.
There’s a painting of your head in Mr.
Felspar’s studio. Mon Dieu! I have cleared
the thing up. At the time I spoke to you
I had quite forgotten the picture. Do you
remember I said I had seen you before?”
“Ah, oui! Mademoiselle, you said so.
But now I beg of you—l am so afraid—all
is so terrible, so strange to me—l have not
the key—l do not understand.”
Mrs. Carducci was satisfied that the
woman’s terror had its rise in thoughts of
her man, “La Savate.”
“Felspar, Edward Felspar—he married
you, eh?” asked Carducci.,
The woman shrugged her shoulder and
gave a little laugh. “He was so foolish,”
she said; and again she forced a laugh.
This black-haired, strong animal, smelling
of garlic, frightened her.
“Your name is ?” he demanded.
“Lisette Delas Felspar.”
“Dio mio! No, you lie! Lisette Delas
Felspar is dead.”
“You are mistaken,” she cried excitedly.
Then her lips trembled and she whispered,
“Mais, I no say anything, or Neigre he
kill me!”
The woman spoke too rapidly for Car-
ducci to follow her.
“What she say?” he asked his wife.
“I say you no betray me. It was not
wise for me to talk,” the woman pleaded.
“Make you easy about that,” Carducci
replied. “No more I say here; but Mistere
Neigre I speak, eh?”
“Oh! Non! Non!” she cried, suppli-
cating.
“Let her be,” said his wife. “Do not make
trouble for her.”
“Pouf! Neigre not so bad man,” answered
her husband, moving from the door.
Neigre was heard humming a French
song at the bottom of the stairs. The
woman gave a start, hurriedly bowed her
adieus and ran up the stairs.
Carducci followed to the door and waited
to Neigre when he reached the land-
ing. The Frenchman was still humming
the song when the Italian touched him on
the shoulder in the semi-darkness.
Neigre jumped away. “Nom de Dieu
quoi!” he muttered. “I thought the caches
had me.”
“You jump, Francois, at all the shadows.”
“You are fat-enough shadow, Saccaco!”
replied Neigre. “What is it?”
“Business, Francois. Come!”
He led the way back to where his wife
and Marie were sitting. He told them to
go to bed, saying he desired to speak to
Monsieur Neigre.
The women needed no second bidding to
leave the room. When they were gone
Carducci said: “Women plague the Devil,
eh?”
He motioned his companion to a seat,
then shut and locked the door. After placing
two bottles of wine and a bottle of
brandy on the table he gave Neigre one of
his black cigars, took one himself and lit it.
“Merci, non, I like not jmur cigars, Sac-
caco, and never did!”
Neigre poured out into a glass some wine
and added brandy to it. He handed the
glass to Carducci, and then mixed a like
drink for himself. Lighting a cigarette, he
turned to Carducci interrogatively.
“Well?”
The Italian gazed upwards to the ceiling.
“The woman—who was she? Knew you
her in Paris, eh?”
“No. I did not know her in Paris. Why
do you ask?”
“Patience, Francois. Were you married
to the lady?”
“Oui! We were married by the prison
authorities in New Caledonia.”
Carducci looked doubtful.
Neigre explained that the French penal
authorities allowed well-behaved prisoners
to marry female convicts who also had a
record of good conduct. The permission
carried the condition that the married
couples were exiled from France for life.
“Then she was not married in France?”
the Italian asked.
The Frenchman shrugged his shoulders
and smiled.
“One must not be too fastidious in .a
bride from prison. Non! She killed her
man!” he smiled again and shrugged his
shoulders.
“ Peste! Your shoulders talk too much.
Speak the words,” exclaimed Carducci im-
patiently.
“Mon Dieu! What is it you fat fool want
to know?”
“Has she spoken of Mistere Felspar, an
artist?”
“Fels-par? Fels-par? She speak of many
artists. Many—Brevieres, Grenoble, Laur-
entz”
“But Felspar?” exclaimed Carducci im-
patiently.
“I think not. I do not remember.”
“Ah, you drink too much, Francois, to
say, eh?”
Neigre smiled and shrugged his shoulders.
Carducci said he did not know that even
well-behaved convicts were allowed to
marry.
Neigre assured him that he, Carducci.
would know a lot more about the ways of
New Caledonia if anything happened to him.
Neigre. He told him his wife’s name, on
the penal register, was Lisette Delas Fel-
spar, and that she had a cousin of the
same name, Lisette Delas, who had died in
Paris. From what his wife had told him
he believed they were artists’, models. So
far as he knew, his wife had no relations
living.
“I like, Francois, to see your wife now,”
Carducci said.
“But you cannot. She is in bed!”
“Bah! An artist’s model and so modest!
Pouf! lam not in love.”
“All right,” said Neigre.
Carducci rose. “You first, Francois,” he
said; “I follow you.”
On going upstairs they found the woman
sitting in her chemise de nuit. The room
was lighted by a candle. Much of the tallow
had run along the neck of the bottle that
served as a candlestick. An unlighted lamp,
its glass covered with soot, stood on a small
table.
The men entered the room without knock-
ing. In alarm the woman rose from the
bed and retreated to one of the corners of
the room. Her eyes flashed indignantly.
“How dare he come here?” she asked
Nererre angrily. “Do you allow him to insult
me?”
“What she say?” asked the Italian, taking
his cigar from his mouth and placing it
on the mantelpiece alongside a cameo
brooch upon which his roving eyes had
fallen.
“She says you are a fat swine and that
.vou have no right in her room, and that
I am to kick you out.”
(Continued on page 58.)


Han King, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5,000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3.300.005
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928.. £18,623,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. It. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E. ;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D. ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER: C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 62 Bishops.gate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 186 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. •• £029,988
Preference Shares .. .. •• 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 616,210
Ordinary Shares .. .. •• 3,700,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,732,020
GRANTS DRAFTS
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament 1865,
and Registered under the Companies Act 1892,
of South Australia.)
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE'S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital £ 1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 970,000
£2,220,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,470,000
Also 116 Branches and Agencies in South Australia,
London Office: 11 LEADENIIALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad collected
and proceeds remitted. All usual banking business
transacted.
ALL) AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should road the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians iu
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Iteading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency. Ltd.. 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
✓
' SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
N.Z. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CLUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISLAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAL ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER C<\., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World’s Leading
Advertising Agencies.
Shippin
In the Isles
of Enchantment
SOFTLY cradled in the Pacific, like tropical
flowers afloat on the surface of a pond,
the Isles of Enchantment beckon to wearied
Australians. In their deep restfulness are the
gentle weaving of palms, the caress of wind
in the trees, the murmur of surf, the scent of
strange blossoms, the majesty of green-mantled
mountains, the beauty of thatched roofs
between fruit-trees.
These await you at Rarotonga and Papeete,
or at Suva and Honolulu, and in addition an
ocean holiday at less than the cost of a city
vacation.
Particulars from —
UNION STEAM
SHIP COMPANY,
247 George Street,
Sydney.
59 William Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
V
' U'-
Ail
iiSr
raft
~ ryJp^7...:.,i.1 : • «* >■ *d«*-T
•*“’." *^rsr. “■ - ‘
v~z^
mm
min
■ \ N ■ - I
n
'X,
M
mm
m
r\
SB
ess
Attractive Trips of from 2 to 7 Weeks.
Magnificent Scenery, Luxuriant Tropical Vegetation
and Quaint Surroundings.
Make a selection and book early for a most interesting
Holiday.
SOUTH SEA ISLAND CRUISES
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Lord
Howe Island, Norfolk Island and New Hebrides
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
(“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly Sailings from Melbourne and Sydney
by the “MARELLA” (7500 tons) and
“MALABAR” (5000 tons).
BURNS, PHILP e COMPANY LIP.
SYDNEY AND BRANCH OFFICES
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
ESTABLISHED 1811
With which is amalgamated
w
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
PAID-UP CAPITAL £7,500,000
RESERVE FUND 5,900,000
RESERVE LIABILITY 7,500,000
£20,900,000
Ausrs
<8?
it
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30. 1928, £88,982,885.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
549 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States. Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,075,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 «
£13,553,025 0 0
Directors *
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN ( Chairman ) ; Hon. Sir THOMAS HUGHES,
M.L.C.; Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and all other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.—-Inspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
'vdncy Agent*.
Huddart, Parker,
Ltd.,
10 Bridge Street.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
M cl I wraith.
McEacharn. Ltd.,
19 Bridge Street.
Melbourne S.S. Co.
Ltd., Clarence
6 Barrack Sts.
Howard Smith Ltd.
, r )8 Margaret St.
Mcllwraitfi.
M« I'acharn. Ltd.,
19 Bridge Street.
A.U.S.N. Co., Ltd.
7 Bridge Street.
FOR BRISBANE, MACK AY, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS
(Transhipping for outports).
TO EUROPE
Via UNITED STATES & CANADA
See Honolulu, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Chicago,
Niagara Falls, New York, Vancouver, Montreal, (Que-
bec, and travel across the Atlantic on one of the
luxurious
CUNARD LINERS,
including the
R.M.S. AQUITANIA, R.M.S. BERENGARIA,
4G.000 Tons. 54,000 Tons.
R.M.S. MAURETANIA,
30,000 Tons.
Return Tickets issued by the Suez Canal and Cape
Lines are available for this route.
Apply for particulars of reduced through rates to
CUNARD LINE
(C. and D. Line),
1 BENT STREET, SYDNEY.
AWAY TO
HAWAII
HAWAII
HAWAII
“With the morning sun o’er mountains old,
Earth turns from its green to purple and gold."
So the poet describes Hawaii —the playground
of the Pacific. Come then, spend a few happy
weeks, daydreaming, surfing, golfing, playing,
forgetting time, here in Sunny Hawaii. Inter-
Island Cruises. Visit Ivilauea Volcano.
Steamer Fares, Round Trip: First Class, £75
up; Second Class, £55 up. First-class Hotel
Accommodation from 12/- to £3 per day, with
meals. It costs no extra money for through
passengers to break this journey at
HAWAII—HAWAII —HAWAII
Inquire at ang Travel or Steamship Company
for fullest particulars, or write
HAWAII TOURIST BUREAU,
Dept. 26, Box 162788, G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
BRISBANE,via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. OBARA —Every Saturday evening ; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single,
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return,
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single,
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single,
£4
£7/6/-
£3/15/-
£3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Pbilp & Co., Ltd
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisba.-:
Huddart Parked!
j n - Magrmficsnt
lllK Fast Pa3S3;iger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and rice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hoi
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITsJ
Coll ins Street, Melbourne; Bridge SO out, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.


__ |oe a
Rexona ©irl.
if--' means
health and beauty!
y'Ji
. f?
jbT
''
My
m*.
m
-
mm
Miss NOLA NEVILLE,
a beautiful Rexona
Girl, writes: “I have
been it sin a Rexona
Soap for some time and
am really more than
delighted, with the
wonderful results
For Any Travel
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
ŵ
The accredited Agents of all Steam
Ship Lines. Their expert guidance and
special facilities cost you nothing.
TO EUROPE 1930
Apply now for accommodation, as
berthing plans for all steamers are open.
WINTER TOURS
To Queensland, Bali, Java, Siam,
Japan, Hawaii, Malaya, Sumatra, Indo-
China (Saigon, Pnom-Penh, Angkor).
STEAMER EXCURSIONS
Cairns, South Sea Islands, Fiji, Tahiti,
Honolulu, Ceylon, Java, Japan and
Manila, etc.
COOKS’ TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
Are the safest and most convenient
means of carrying funds.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street,
ADELAIDE:
49 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
Bim.
BY MARGARET FANE AND HILARY LOFTING.
BECAUSE Bim was a mongrel clog, it was
easy and safe to talk to him—easy, be-
cause he never answered back or shut you
up, and safe because be never repeated what
you said or made a lie out of it. Bonny's
experience was that these qualities were as
rare as they were admirable. Furthermore,
people didn’t want Bonny to talk to them,
had never wanted him to do so since he
could remember anything. Bim was, there-
fore, something much more than an ordinary
friend. For some years Bonny had been
used to tin 1 knowledge that Kim was his
only friend. And if you are thirteen and
an orphan, living in Barge-street, at the
bottom of the ’Loo, with your aunts and
your grandmother, an only friend may be
an asset.
At the moment Bonny was engaged with
his things in the shed in the yard. In the
house they were known as “that Bonny’s
things”; in this capacity they had suffered
much before this haven of the shed had
been given to him in desperation. The things
were small clay figures and models embody-
ing, other than Bim, Bonny’s one possession
on earth. Bim was on guard on his back-
less chair behind the door, and Bonny was
withdrawn from earth, lost in the creation
of further things to add to his large and
useless collection. There was calm here,
Bim seemed to feel, some tranquillity which
released and at the same time quieted
Bonny’s spirit. He was younger here and
yet older, as Bim felt it.
“In a way, I s’pose, Aunt Aggie can’t
'elp it,” Bonny told him. “She always was
spiteful an’ I expect she always will be.”
Bonny’s tongue curled even more up his
cheek as he carefully touched tin' lump of
clay on the table —making no difference in
it that Bim could see—before he leaned back
and looked at it with his head on one side.
“It's ’er way of looking at things. An’
Gran’s old. An’ there you are, Bim.”
It seemed a dull comment on the dinner-
time storm; but in here that was nothing
new. Bim snapped at a lazy fly and missed
it. Apologetically he cocked one ear at
Bonny.
“Aunt Min keeps out of it mostly, now
she’s not feelin’ too good-—that’s one thing.”
For a space there was silence, broken by
the quick rustle of Bim’s sudden shudder.
Bonny glanced at him, and turning
hunched more closely over the lump of damp
clay.
They were not too bad, these things. Or
some of them were not too bad. The one
he’d done of Dicky the parrot—the one Aunt
Aggie threw out into the corridor and
squashed before it was dry—that'd been
“real like old Dicky.” And he’d done some
good ones of Bim, too. Of course, most of
them were no good ; he knew that. Bits of
things he’d seen during the day—next-door’s
cat asleep in the sun, Aunt Aggie’s hand
on the table when she was rousing on him,
the way Constable Byrne’s feet stuck to
the pavement—he never got any of them
right. But you never knew 7; he might, one
day. Because they had a down on him,
that wasn’t to say that nothing would come
right.
The house in Barge-street didn't want
him. They’d rubbed that in pretty solid.
About the first thing lie could remember of
Gran was her telling him to get out of the
way. Aunt Min could never be bothered
with him, either. And Aunt Aggie had
always fair hated him, as far as he could
make out.
But it wasn’t a thing you could do any-
thing with. He cost a good deal, one way
and another, as they often told him. And
that was another thing you couldn’t do
anything with. You had to be somewhere.
Once more he argued the dulled oppression
out of himself by degrees, until he could feel
that there was nothing left but his fingers
and this bit of clay. Bim sighed, knowing
the signs, blinked at the same lazy fly, and
went to sleep.
The clay under Bonny's fingers w T as the
head of a woman. If it had expressed what
he was trying so hard to get into it. the
face would have been radiantly kind and
gentle, full of a mild, smiling love. lie
saw 7 all this in it—that is, his heart did,
if his eyes only told him that they did.
The head, clumsy and fumbling, stiff, inex-
pressive, was his ultimate sanctuary.
It w r as how she would look. He had
never seen her or her face —he had died
when he was born—but this w 7 as her face,
he knew. Quiet and gentle; never a snarl,
never an eye sharp in anger. And always
wanting you. Not a woman w 7 ho shoved
you out of the way or took no notice of
you or ever screamed at you. Just tender
and liking to be w 7 ith you. Wanting you.
This was the fourth one he’d done of
her. She'd always come out the same, as
he d known she would. She w 7 asn’t one to
change. You could believe that she was the
middle of the world. And so she w 7 as, though
this w 7 as all there was of her in the world.
You could get aw 7 ay from anything with
her—go about the place with her, down the
street, fall off to sleep with her soft voice
in your ears, have a look at the docks with
her, anything. There was nothing about
her to remind you of Aunt Aggie or Aunt
Min or Gran or the things you couldn’t
do anything w 7 ith. Bonny’s fingers caressed
the clay in peace.
£unt Aggie’s voice shot into the calm.
'A ou ’eard me callin’, Bonny,” she accused
him from the doorway, her face pinched
and enraged.
Bim woke up and barked, and she cuffed
him off the backless chair.
"No, I didn't ’ear you,” Bonny said, edging
round so that his shoulders were between
her and the lump of clay.
“Well, you ’ear me now. Put that rubbish
away and come to yer tea.”
At the mble Aunt Min looked up and
sneered. “Been playin’ with yer mud-pies,
I s pose. Tea’s nearly over.”
({ran merely looked at him as if he were
one of the mud-pies.
He sat down. “I'm sorry,” he said, but no
one seemed to hear or notice. His tea was
Put in front of him, and he ate it apd went
back to the shed to catch the last of the
light. And to get out of the way.
But they didn’t matter so much, after
all. Mother was in the shed.
This was a different face from those in
the house. Aunt Min’s, with that queer
questioning look, half sneer and half don't
(•are —there was nothing of that here. And
Aunt .Aggie's, generally full of rage and
spite when she could be bothered with you—
nothing of that. And nothing of ({ran look-
ing over your head as if you were dirt. This
was all clear and calm.
He went to school, came back, did what
he was told about the place, and played with
his things in the shed. If anybody living
knew anything of his heart or spirit it was
Him. ({rave and unwanted, he did his job;
something seemed to tell him that only by
doing his job could he hope to make the
models come right. lie didn’t know that the
models could ever lead to anything, or that
they meant anything beyond his escape from
the house, lie often remembered with grati-
tude the boy who had shown him how to
do them, and thought he would like to tell
him how they cleared his mind and made
him feel right again. But the boy had left
school and was in a job ; besides, he wouldn’t
have understood. Bonny was really happy,
he often told himself.
Until that night, or what had begun with
that night. The voices in the front room—
what was it had made him pause and listen
to them? He never bothered with anything
in the house any more than it bothered with
him. But something made him stand and
listen.
The woman who had the balcony room
was speaking. “But you ought to tell him,”
she was saying. “It's not fair to him not
to. And especially now you have to be
operated on. You might”
There was a pause, and Aunt Min’s voice
came trembling into it. “I might die, you
mean.”
“Yes. It lias to be thought of. And you
wouldn’t want anyone else to tell him, and
you wouldn't want him not to know.”
The front-room door was closed softly from
within. Bonny stood where he was for a
moment. Why should this seem to mean
anything to him?
On the morrow he knew.
The same stir of violence was in Aunt
Min’s voice when she told him, though she
seemed to be cold and hard about it. She
was ill, very ill, and she was going to be
operated on—she might die——
A blackness descended upon him and
seemed to sweep all the world away.
His father was living up in Queensland.
He had run away. She had thought that
lie would come back and marry her. But
he never did.
Ronny could feel her urgent eyes watching
him as he stumbled out. But she gave no
other sign of being any different.
In the shed he stared blindly at the empty
table. Aunt Min his mother !
And all that beauty, that love and ten-
derness, was nothing!
Bim came to the door and looked at him,
but went away almost at once, his tail be-
tween liis legs.
For a space Ronny remained there his
memories falling from him one by one. Soon
all the barriers were down ; of the sanctuary
nothing was left. No voice as he was falling
to sleep; no companion abopt the streets
or down to the docks; no models; nothing.
There he was stripped and alone!
This he endured in dulled misery until his
spirit came fumbling blindly back to life
again. Presently he stood up and took a box
down from the shelf and from it that lump of
clay that was meant to be the gentle, tender
woman’s head. His hands went swiftly cut
to it and soon the clay was shapeless. His
destroying hands worked savagely under the
bleak despair of his eyes. When lie had
done there was only a lump of clay on the
table, a lump that expressed nothing. lie
turned at the door to look at it once more
before he shut, and locked the door of the
shed for ever.
Aunt Min did die. It was a merciful
deliverance, Gran said. Ronny was not in-
terested, though Gran was speaking directly
to him, a rare thing in the house in Barge-
street unless they were rousing on him. At
the funeral he had been like a sleepwalker;
Aunt Aggie had boxed his ears for it when
they got home. Couldn’t he show any feel-
ings, she had asked him at the top of her
voice. He didn't say so, but he couldn’t
show any feeling; iip hadn’t got any. He
wasn’t interested, that was all.
The house tackled him. This stony-eyed
boy who did what he was told and suffered
all that came to him without giving any
sign of being alive was an insult to the house.
And the house took it out of his hide.
Bim felt the situation most. No more
drowsy hours of safety in the old shed while
Ronny became himself and a dog could go
to sleep. No more escape from the strain
and hatred in the house. Nothing but this
dreary Ronny, who never went near the shed,
never spoke, never came to life. It was
all there in the shed still; but not. for
Ronny, and ; that blackened life for Bim.
But one morning it was found that Dicky
was dead. There he was. lying on the floor
of his cage. Aunt Aggie hadn’t fed him for
two days and in addition had cuffed him—
that’s what she said. But it was with a
broom, Bim and Ronny knew. He had been
Aunt Min’s bird: and now there was no
Aunt Min they didn’t care.
Bim felt a change. A slight one at first,
but still a change. Something was stirring
in Ronny. He hung about expectantly for
an afternoon or two without any results.
But at the end of the week Ronny came
home one afternoon and instead of goino- to
his room with his books, he went througlTtlie
house and out into the yard. Bim saw him at
the shed-door, and was instantly at his side
(Conlinned on next page.)


ATISM
WHY SUFFER
DAILY TORTURE?
WHEN IN 24 HOURS YOU CAN TELL
HOW GOOD IS THIS 40-YEAR-OLD REMEDY
THOUSANDS of men and women are living, not
merely in daily pain, but in daily peril of heart
trouble due to Rheumatism in some form or
another. The chronic pain which we call Rheumatism
is due to excess of Uric Acid poisons and harmful
bacteria in the blood. The Kidneys are not carrying out
their work properly, and these poisons, instead of passing
out of the body, accumulate. So, in addition to agonising
pains day and night, vital organs such as the heart are
weakened in their action. This is your chief danger—
a danger you should not neglect.
A REMEDY with a WORLD-WIDE REPUTATION
There is a remedy that will act quickly and surely. It
is recommended the world over and tested in tens of
thousands of cases for over forty years. Your chemist
stocks De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, and sells
them to you under the guarantee of satisfaction or money
back.
Tens of Thousands Trust This Remedy.
From the first dose, within 24 hours, you will see
and know they are doing you good. Persevere with*
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills and you will
banish your painful, dangerous symptoms. Many,
once bed-ridden, crippled by Rheumatism, in torture
day and night, have found real health again in this
40-year-old remedy. Ask your Chemist how good
it is. He knows the value of the prescription clearly
printed on every box, and can tell you why l)e
Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills can, will and
must do you good.
Almost every post brings written proof of the
value of this remedy, generally in cases where
everything else has failed. Here is just one of
thousands of such letters.
Mr. W. C. Everett, 150 Weston Road, Rozelle, Sydney,
N.S.W., writes: “For over two years I was troubled with
bad pains in the back, and sluggish feeling every morning.
I suffered very badly and could not lay on my left side or
back, and I was in constant pain. I tried lots of well-
known preparations until a friend, who was a sufferer from
IE
r
r
w'
©
<27
<S>
\0
y*/
AC
c
Lumbago, told me that De Witt’s Kidney and Bladde- Pills were the only things that gave relief. I
•decided to try them, and after taking only half a / bc..ie of pills I felt better. I am now in perfect
health. I am very thankful and tell other sufferers all about De Witt’s.”
Every box of “De Witt’s” bears the name clearly printed so that you cannot be
mistaken, and it is to your own health interest to be sure that you ask for and see
you obtain the genuine De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills. They are sold in two sizes
—3/6 and the larger, more economical size 6/6. There is no substitute and nothing
just as good.
E
KIDNEY &
BLADDER
PILLS
THE REMEDY WHICH PROVES RESULTS.
“Pouf! Was the lady angry? I make
not love to her —ah, no! Ask the lady
where her cousin, Lisette Delas, is.”
Neigre translated the question.
“She is dead,” tfte woman replied defi-
antly.
“She is dead,” echoed Neigre.
“She married Mistere Felspar?” said Car-
ducci coaxinglv.
“You lie,” she- cried, “to say so.” Then
she spoke very excitedly to Neigre, telling
hipi that she had asked Carducci an hour
before not to mention Felspar.-
Neigre shrugged his shoulders and told
her it was nothing to him. He suggested
that she should answer the Italian’s ques-
tions, and so get rid of him before he,
Neigre, did the fat fool any harm.
Carducci looked at both of them sus-
piciously. He disliked their talking so rap-
idly in French. He repeated his question
in a more insistent tone.
“Non! Non!” replied the woman with
nervous irritability.
He picked up the bottle with the candle
and held it so that the light would fall on
the death certificate which he took out of
his notebook. He gave the certificate to
the woman to read. The candle’s light began
to gutter out.
Neigre took the soot-covered lamp-glass
and wiped it with his fingers. Then he lit
the wick. He and the woman held the cer-
tificate and they read it together.
The woman, surprised and excited, speak-
ing quickly, told Neigre that her cousin
Piquante’s body had been mistaken for her
own.
“The waters of the Seine,” said the
woman, “soon change the face of a corpse.
One can only guess who was the one behind
the mask of death. Heins! ("cut triste!
When a brooch is found pinned to the dress
of a woman, then the brooch may tell more
than the corpse. The old man knew (he
brooch that Felspar had given to me, and
which I gave to Piquante. The old man
thought the brooch said ‘Lisette Delas Fel-
spar,’ but an old man’s thoughts are far
away.”
“The old man died soon after,” she con-
tinued—-“to learn his mistake, perhaps. Not
until twelve months later was the mistake
discovered. The officer who found out
had known me— la! la! He knew I had mar-
ried an artist from Australia. He knew, as
all Paris knew, that I had been sent to Nou-
vclle Caledonia for the crime passional. I,e
bon garcon, grateful perhaps to the pretty
girl he remembered, had the brooch sent to
me when I became a libere. Monsieur Fel-
spar must have written from Australia for
the certificate, and, getting back this one,
believed his ‘Little Butterfly’ was dead.
That blank Italian beast must have stolen
the certificate from Monsieur Felspar. He
believed I told him a lie. La! I <* an_
not help laughing, life is so droll!”
The brandy and wine made Neigre in-
clined to quarrel. His cunning caused him
to translate just so much of Lisette’s story
as he thought fit for the Italian to know.
Cftrducci took the death certificate from
them, folded it, put it in his notebook and
stuffed the book in his pocket. He swore
because the parchment was marked with
soot from their dirty fingers—was no
longer fit for a Christian to handle.
Another drink, he told Neigre, would not
harm either of them, and he wished him
to come downstairs so that he could tell
him what money the death certificate \ ro-
bably meant for both of them. He re-
peated again and again to himself in
Italian: “The death certificate, ah! it is
worth gold!”
Before leaving the room Carducci ex-
pressed regret to Lisette for his intrusion;
at the same time, with his back to her, he
took the cigar from the mantelpiece, and
simultaneously his great fat hand closed
ever the cameo brooch.
When Carducci explained how he pur-
posed blackmailing Felspar after the
artist’s marriage by demanding money as
the price of his silence regarding his wife
Lisette, Neigre told Carducci again that he
was a fat fool. He pointed out to the
Italian that, he could not assert to Felspar
that his wife was alive, in face of an
official certificate stating she was dead,
unless he was prepared to produce Lisette
in the flesh, or some unquestionable proof
that she was living.
Carducci told Neigre that he was quite
prepared to take Lisette to Melbourne and
to show her to Felspar. Neigre dared Car-
ducci to attempt to bring the woman into
any such scheme; he promised the Italian
that he would knife him if he so much as
mentioned to Felspar that Lisette was alive.
If he disclosed to anyone that Lisette was
alive he might give a clue to the police
that she was an escaped rccidiviste. The
police would find him, Neigre, at the end
of the clue, “and then,” said Neigre, “I
will see that they do not put any slight
on you by overlooking the Parisian peddler
of holy images.”
After considering the matter for a minute
Neigre spoke again. “You must give me
that death certificate,” he said—“l can-
not trust you with it. You are a big-enough
fool to try to blackmail a man, though it
is odds on you will be caught, and I’m not
going to be caught because you are a fool.
So hand over the certificate, or there will
be trouble between us now.”
(To be continued.)
The old days seemed to come back now.
Bonny sat at his table with his things and
gradually worked it all out of himself until
Bim felt that it was safe to go to sleep. He
talked sometimes, too. Not so much as he
used to, though.
He got out one of his old models of Dicky
■—the big one.
“Bemember her laughing at that, Bim?
It; was about the only time I saw her with
a real laugh on her face.”
Bim watched him.
“I was thinkin’—if I put it on ’er grave.
Seems a funny sort of thing to put on a
grave. Still she might un’erstand.”
Bonny looked uncertainly at Bim. who
wagged his tail without committing himself.
“What say if we go up there Suuday and
put it on. It wouldn’t do any harm, and
she might—you can’t tell; she might know
Dicky was there and be glad of it.”
This was far beyond Bim ; but. he wagged
his tail again. Bonny put the model of
Dicky carefully away, and got down the big
box.
“Well, we’ll take it up there Sunday. If
anyone sees it they can only laugh at it.
And that won’t do any harm, will it?”
Out of the big box he took a lump of
clay, the model of a woman’s head.
“You've seen ’er look like that, haven’t
you, Bim? That bit of a curl on her lip as
if she was goin’ to smile, only her eyes didn’t
smile.” Bonny was far from sure that any
of this was evident in the model; all he
knew was that it was what lie had meant to
put there. “Bim, yon and me didn’t know.
That was the pain—wouldn’t let her eyes
smile, Bim. She ’ad a lot of pain—more’n
we know.”
Bim cocked an ear. watching Bonny.
“So that’s settled,” Bonny said. “Sunday
aft’noon.”
Tootling.
I knew a bright young fool
Who tootled 'neath the moon,
When wise folk were a-bed,
A footling little tune.
Possessed of daring, hi*
One evening filched a star
To light him on his way,
For he was faring far.
He stuck it in his cap—
Just what a fool would do—■
And tootled merrily,
Tee-ooril-ooril-00.
Seven owlets quaintly stared
As he went tootling by,
And blinked with mild surprise,
Tee-ooril-ooril-i.
A little crooked man
Stood at his cabin door.
He quickly crossed himself
Three times or maybe more.
Upon an emerald hill
He tootled low and long,
Until the opal rain
Lisped a staccato song.
A cowslip-scented wind
Danced in an elfin way,
Arpongst the shaken trees,
Tee-ooril-ooril-a.
His mother was a witch,
His father no man knew—
Pray ! was there anything
But tootling lie could do?
So over hill and dale
He tootled merrily
When wise folk were a-bed,
Tco-ooril-ooril-ee.
MAORILAND.
IVY GIBBS.
Cats.
Cats are so wise. They know the paths
The fairies follow in the night;
They touch the sandals Morning wears
All flushed with rose and laced with light;
They hear the chorus goblins sing
Above the grasses whispering.
No wonder that they sleep all day
With folded paw and languid tail!
They saw the false Dawn driven out
Before the sunflower’s yellow flail ;
They guessed the sweet-peas meant to fly
Ere they were lost against the sky.
They heard the grey moth of the dusk
Flatter the pink-fringed picotee,
The red wasp peering from its hut
Slander the pair maliciously.
They shook a whisker, climbed a wall,
Because cats do not care fit all.
For they believe all loves are free,
Nor mind what other creatures do;
A sudden rush along a bough,
A game played with a serious shoe;
A sun bath on a window sill,
Some cream to drink, a mouse to kill.
Pursuing pleasure ’neath the moon,
Watching a witches’ camp-fire burn,
Unmindful of the fairy ring
Sown deep with magic seeds of fern,
With waving tails —green eyes ashine,
You go your way and I’ll go mine.
Somehow they always seem remote,
Even when purring on a lap;
The night to them is full of play,
The day is little but -a nap.
They yawn, they stretch, they blink their
eyes—-
And then they grin. Cats are too wise!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


¥
WESTIN CHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in atock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
|ueen»lan<i Agents—-IiOBMI.s <s CHIUCII, Brisbane.
tf.Z. Office—93-107 Fentlierston Street. Wellington
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
V fetor inn OIRw-.-Clm.HTry Hotlw." 485 llnurke Street. .Melbourne .
Bo.itli Austnillnn Agents: KW)EIt, SMITH « CO. LTD.. Adelaide. B.A
Always First in Queensland Advertising.
The BRISBANE COURIER
££?L AGAIN PROVED ITS SUPERIORITY AS
QUEENSLAND’S LEADING ADVERTISING
MEDIUM.
In 1927 the “Courier” carried 9,070 columns more than its
mornxag contemporary. In 1928 the “Courier” increased its
lead by <5BO columns, making n grand total of 9,450 columns
over its morning contemporary.
It’s simply because the “COURIER” is first in Queensland in
CIRCULATION, ADVERTISING AND INFLUENCE,
Rate Cards and specimen copies from ROBT, D FISHER,
<4 Pitt Street, Sydney, ’Phone 85007.
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper Co., “Courier” Building, Queen
btieet, Brisbane; also publishers of the “Queenslander” and “Sports Referee.”
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
Tasmanian
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere—all over the Stale, in Town and
Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and each
issue is eagerly read by men, women and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1577.)
Published on Wednesdays. Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart,
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 228
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: "Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
Cite
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybocfly.
Unparalleled Circulation:
in Relation to Population*
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copie* of “THE ADVM IITISER" may be
obtained at all inter-state agencies of
Messrs. Cordon & dlotch, price lj<|.
ADVERTISER NEV/SPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William {Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Ref >resentattve:
WILSON, 22S P itt .Street, Sydney.
Telephone, MAGIGI.
London Office: 4|; Fleet Street, E.C.4.
THE DAILY MAIL
BRISBANE
Is logically the first big daily to select in Queensland^for any adve rtislng
campaign. It gets results!
It is always bright and is progressive to a degree..
And its net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to
be greater than that of any other daily in Queensland. Its companion
journal is
THE SUNDAY MAIL
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magr/zine. These two journals
give a “cover” in Queensland that is secon d to none. For rates and
other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH
Clyne House, 72 Pitt Sftast, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MAiNAGER,
who will quote you pricfe for the originah
What's the matter
You know there's something wronc,
zvith you ? What is it ? Your livei
and stomach upset ? Then you're
CUIUg. JUU
More often than &ot the faulty
functioning of the digestive
organs, brought on by Constipa-
tion, is the cause of Biliousness.
Failure of the bowels to act
properly, results in poison acc-
umulating in the system which
upsets the stomach, giving rise to
biliousness, headaches, loss of
energy and appetite.
These are signals. Take action!
Take Beecham’s Pills.! They
assist nature and keep system
regular and healthy.
#
iMi
\
s:
0 I *
1
"
«=» * L_ L_ -«5
fcrv *«£■♦*
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
TUESDAY—Price 3d
<r
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
“The Examiner”
Tasmania’s Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best (l\V7 1 1 • ))
Illustrated Weekly Is the W CCKiy L^OUHer
Published
Every
Wednesday
w
OO'*
C se .•*** .••** .•-*>*
*<•
s<a>‘


m
o>y
Z 3
j 7, ri>. * i
4AJ
t '
4L/ /
\
&
L " /
5%
nr
L*
NW
Si\
X
/i
*
H
Dodge Brothers
NEW SENIOR.
This brilliant New Senior is a truly great
Six on every score by which fine motor
cars are judged.
Its long, low, sweeping lines reveal a
freshness of conception —a touch here,
a curve there —that captures the very
spirit of to-morrow.
Moreover, the New Senior is bigger,
faster and in every detail finer than its
worthy predecessor. The car is much
longer and roomier; the seats are wider;
the interiors more luxurious and com-
fortable; the appointments and color
effects more captivating. And complete
fine car equipment is provided.
The skill and integrity of Dodge engin-
eering are further revealed in the smooth-
ness, the silence and velvety flow of
Senior power, in the car’s amazing pick-
up, and dependable ruggedness.
See it to-day and drive it. Test it for
get-away, flexibility, pull on the hills, and
every other vital phase of quality per-
formance. And you will agree that the
New Senior is Dodge Brothers master-
piece!
Dodge Brothers complete line of six cylinder passenger
vehicles includes the Standard, the Victory, and the Senior,
Canada Cycle 8C Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty. Ltd., Melbourne.
Austral Motors Limited, Brisbane — Townsville,
Harden and Johnston Ltd., Sydney ,
Waymouth Motor Co. Ltd., Adelaide,
Winterbottom Motor Co. Ltd., Perth,
'Northern Automobile $, Ltd,, Auckland, N.Z,
Amuri Motors, Ltd. .. Christchurch, 2f.Z.
Cossens and Black, Ltd. .. Dunedin , N.Z,
P. H. Vickery, Ltd. .. Invercargill, N.Z,
Newton King, Ltd. .. New Plymouth, N£.
Magnus Motors, Ltd. .. Wellington, N&*
10/4/’29.
