

B.H.P. WIRE PRODUCTS
Made at the Works of
RYLANDS BROS. (AUST.) LTD., NEWCASTLE
GUARANTEED ABSOLUTELY RELIABLE.
MADE FROM
B. H. P.
LIST OF PRODUCTS.
STEEL WIRE.—AII classes and grades for manufactur-
ing purposes including Galvanised, Bright and
Coppered Spring, Nail, Welding, etc. ------- “Waratah” Brand
BLACK AND GALVANISED FENCING WIRES - - “Waratah” Brand
WIRE NETTING.—Rabbit and Assorted - - “ Waratah” Brand
BARBED WIRES.—“Iowa” or “Waukegan” “Waratah" Brand
NAILS “Waratah” Brand
CLOTHES AND GUY LINES “Waratah” Brand
FENCING POSTS.—Star Pattern - B.H.P. “Waratah” Brand
FENCING DROPPERS “Flexo” Brand
MADE FROM
B.H.P.
STEEL
For All Classes of Wire Products
SPECIFY “WARATAH” BRAND
B H P
IRON & STEEL PRODUCTS
MANUFACTURED AT
NEWCASTLE STEEL WORKS.
LIST OF PRODUCTS.
..
w
ŵ
FLATS
OCTAGONS
PIG IRON
INGOTS
BLOOMS & BILLETS
REINFORCING BARS
WIRE RODS
BENZOL
TAR
CRUSHED SLAG
SOLVENT NAPHTHA
TOLUOL
SULPHATE OF
AMMONIA
SUBLIMED
NAPHTHALINE
B.H.P. BLOWFLY OIL
CREOSOTE OIL
ẁ
The Bulletin
(n£cu( tPt&fW. iLU I&&1AJU
Vol. 50.—N0. 2568.
Wednesday, May 1, 1929.
price 6d.
Registered at the Genera] Post Office. Svdnev. N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission bv Post as a Newspaper.


\Y/RITE FQJI THE LIBRARY CATA-
w LISTS oti all subjects,
w! icb will be iorward‘:d on a; plication, post
frep to
JIYMOEK’S BOOK * READE. T/iT)
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
mi
sJLLu
Yonr Pen and Demand Good Pay!
Send this S.B. Advt. for Free Prospectus to
STOTT'S* 100 Russell St.,
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
w
£
é
ê
STAMMERING AND STUTTERING
CAN BE CURED IN YOUR OWN HOME
Send TO-DAY for particulars of “Perfect Speech" and copies of letters from
those who have been cured. Philip O'Bryen Hoare, M.8.1.M.5c. (London) (The
Stammerers’ Friend), Specialist in Public Speaking and the Cure of Stammering
and Stuttering.
ADDRESS:
56 BRISBANE ARCADE, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
P.O. Bex 1112 P.
Love Me and the Luck is Yours!
As I was saying to Tabitha: Men are fools; why should they work for
a living when they can pick up wealth like this ? Listen. All you have to
do is to look at me, love me, and the shilling’s mine, so to speak, but
the fortune’s yours—£lo,ooo of it. Nobody ever failed who trusted
THE NEW SOUTH WALES FIRE BRIGADES’ ART UNION
FOR HOSPITALS, AMBULANCES, AND CHARITY.
(Sanctioned by the Attorney-General)
©
©
I AM PETER
THE LUCK BRINGrER.
TAtS IS YOUR LUCKY QM
SEND ALQAiG AT ONCE
rilUlft
illoonmo
£lO,OOO in Prizes. First Prize a solid Gold Helmet, valued
at £3000; Second Prize a Golden Casket of Diamonds valued
at £1000; Third Prize a Diamond Tiara valued at £750.
TICKETS: ONE SHILLING.
envelope
Six Tickets, 5/; Twelve Tickets, 10/; Twenty-five Tickets, £l.
A Ticket a Day Keeps Misfortune Away!
Send at once. Siate whether Mr., Mrs., or Miss. Enclose stamped
for result slip. Art Union Drawn on June 1, „
Address: J. J. NEVILLE, Hon. Secretary.
Fire Brigades Headquarters, 213 Castiercagh-strect, Sydney, N.S.W.
TAKE THE ADVICE OF A WISE OLD TOMCAT AND 808 IN.
I’LL BE HAPPY WHEN THE BOBS COME BOBBING ALONG!
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
CAUTION. —The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under ths name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure to
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen-
thoi Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold Everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in ,stamps to the Manufacturers. Hudson’s
Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney.
For Coughs, Colds and Sore Throats.
m :
o
L The larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea of
Windpipe.
C. Th e Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
D. A Lobe of oq*
of the Lungs.
The Red Page
The Norman Lindsay Illustrations
In one yam of mine an important part
of the plot was the fact that a notice was
hung on a front gate. The artist put it on
the door of the house, because, as he ex-
plained to me, “it .looked better there.”
Few* of them have even that much of a
reason for their misdoings. I have several
times had to adapt a story to make it match
the inaccuracies of fact in the illustration.
I have sympathised with the writers of
these yams, and wondered if they thought
the paper 1 was working on at the time had
suddenly gone mad. One put into a story
a thin scrag of a woman. The whole stoiy
depended oh her being a scrag. The writer,
if she read the yarn in print, found her
scrag marvellously a muscular Amazon, with
arms like legs o’ mutton, breast like an
observation balloon and a face that would
strike terror into Mussolini—that is, if a
Mussolini face can scare Mussolini, as, of
course, itj. .obviously ought to. Then there
was the one-armed man who miraculously
secured another arm, the buggy that turned
into a Ford, the peppercorns that grew into
THE QUARTERMASTER.
gum-trees, the seconds who insisted on be-
ing present at the duel, though the plot
depended on there being no observers, and
sundry other illustrious miracles and
marvels.
Every writer who has had a number of
stories illustrated knows the truth of all
this, and only artists who consistently do
poor work will be likely to raise a protest.
I am not indicting all Australian illus-
trators, of course; a small party of them
do try conscientiously to do really good
work. These oucht to welcome lessons
in the craft contained in the Norman Lind-
say illustrations to The Bulletin's coming
serial, “The Quartermaster.” And perhaps
these illustrations may shame the jerry-
workers into an understanding that their
first, business is to be artists.
i was introduced to the Norman Lindsay
illustrations in an iron safe on the ground
floor of The Bulletin Office and was per-
mitted to cart them up the stairs under
escort. Somehow the furphy spread round
the building that the pictures were to be
seen in a roon) on the third floor. Then a
procession set in. They came from the
comps.’ room, from the readers’ rooms, from
the several floors and from the street.
Eventualfy I took the drawings downstairs
and saw them locked up again. It was
the only way to get on with the job. Now
I have to speak of them from memory. It
is many months since I read the story
illustrated, but at once the panorama of
Old Sydney has unfolded again before me;
at once the Quartermaster with his family
and descendants have come into my Item For
Norman Lindsay has illustrated the story,
not superimposed upon it some careless fan-
cies of his own. His Quartermaster is the
character in the book stepped bodily out 6f
the manuscript pages. The women are the
story’s women; the houses, the harbor, the
shipping, the streets, the rooms are Old
Sydney, are the setting in the book. The
grouping in one or two especially seems to
me superb. There is a white horse in one-
as magnificent as Quixote’s illusory idea of
his nag. A street group of women and
children is a charming example of artistic
simplicity. There is no need to continue
the list: I for one have never seen any
illustration work in Australia that can be
compared with it.
I take back my crabbing grouch against
illustrators, hoping that this worl- may lead
my pet ones to change their ways.
CECIL MANN.
The Irrelevance of Corruption
The recovery of George V. from an illness
which would have killed nine men out of
ten of his age has focussed public atten-
tion on the exemplary nature of his life.
Neither tire best doctors in the world nor
the constitution of a Samson would have
pulled him-through had there been a flaw
in his past habits. Not that his rectitude
needed to be established, so far as his sub-
jects, who hare had him continually before
their eyes for 18 years, were concerned.
Never has a nation been set a higher moral
and domestic standard than Britain under
this king and his consort. It seems to
dispose of the superstition that the con-
duct or character of the sovereign has an
ethical influence on the literature, drama
and society of his day.
If our modem Solomon Eagles are in
agreement on any subject, it is on the moral
obliquity of the rising generation, and on
the disgusting outspokenness of the younger
novelists and playwrights. A passage from
the historian Green could easily be
matched in those journalistic and other
quarters where the shortcomings of our
time are held up to reprobation:—
Vicious as the stage was, it only reflected the
general vice of the time. The Comedy of the
Kestoration borrowed everything from the Comedy of
France save the poetry, tire delicacy and good taste
which veiled its grossness. Seduction, intrigue,
brutality, cynicism, debauchery found fitting expres-
sion in dialogue of a studied and deliberate foulness
which even its wit fails to redeem from disgust.
The seventeenth century blamed Charles
11. for it, and the world has been following
suit ever since. See, for example, the re-
marks in Taine’s ‘‘History of English
Literature.” Taane first paints a gloomy
picture of life under the Puritans, and
then says: “The King re-established, a
deliverance ensued.”
It is’sometimes said that the war of 1914-
18 was responsible for the laxities of this age.
But no such sudden falls from grace are to be
seen in the literature of other post-war
periods. There was none after the second
Punic War which, in the tenacity of the
victors and in the early successes of the
losers, provides a close analogy to the
World War. And French literature has
gained in reticence and spirituality ‘ since
the Armistice.
Another ancient truism which appears to
be as fallacious as the idea that the moral
outlook of the head of a State has any great
influence on the outlook of the citizens is
the one which insists that nations decline
and fall when they grow corrupt. The
fate of the Roman Empire is usually cited.
But other authorities attribute this to other
causes ranging from freetrade and State
socialism to Christianity ; in any case, the
process extended over centuries.
Going on the evidence of literature, Eng-
land has seldom been more corrupt than it
was under Heniy VIII. and Elizabeth—
reigns during which the nation emerged as
a European Power and laid the seeds from
which sprang world-power and a world-
Empire. The reign of Charles 11. was no
doubt scandalous, but half a century later
Marlborough was demonstrating in Ger-
many, France and elsewhere that his
countrymen were anything but effete. There
was nothing edifying about the careers of
the four Georges, but they were followed by
Victoria and a wonderful political literary
and dramatic renaissance. The literature
and society of Louis XlV.’s day were
thoroughly corrupt, but the same applies
to the Directory period and to the period
of Napoleon III.; and to-day France emerges
with a higher birth-rate and a better indus-
trial morale than Britain.
Novels, essays, plays and paintings in-
evitably mirror the social tendencies of the
age in which they are produced; but are
such tendencies any more reliable as guides
to a nation’s future than the character
of a sovereign is as a contemporary moral
barometer? Individual punishment may
visit those who, in a corrupt period, provide
v. iters and artists with inspiration. It may
be that the progeny of the wicked die out,
and give way to families which have a better
chance of surviving socially in proportion
as they are more conventional—though a
study of the histories of some of the
world’s most successful families indicates
.that this is, anyhow, not a rule. But a
corrupt, age, or a series of them,' seems to
have no ill-effects, nationally speaking, at
all. On the contrary, the least reprehensible
nations on the moral side are usually the
least illustrious. The European countries
which have never shocked the world by their
excesses have never caused it to fear their
strength; and it is only now’ when millions
of Americans have got right away from the
Puritan tradition ip literature, liquor and
love that their nation has civilisation at
its feet.
JOHN DALLEY.
The Deluge Corroborated
Some persons of light and leading have dug
up “Ur of the Chaldees,” where Abraham
hung out before his famous and more or
le s historical invasion of Palestine, and
as a result it is announced that the Biblical
narrative of the Deluge is confirmed and
verified.
The story of the finding of Ur is of
the familiar type. First of all some ruins
were discovered near the surface. Mixed up
with them were broken pqts and pans, and
skins of cats and ancient hats, and other
debris which the ancient housewife threw
(Continued on page 5.)


Anthony Horderns * name in an Advertisement is a Complete Guarantee of its Accuracy.
Anthony Horderns'
Present an Unrivalled
Selection of Splendid Values in
Glassware and Crockery
r\T
21-PIECE TEA SET,
22/6
In superior-quality English China,
featuring egg-yellow Band and
colored floral Panels. Offering at
an exceptionally low price.
Per set
22/6
ë
33-PIECE DINNER SET, 72/6
Chateau Sheridan, fine semi-porcelain, having
gold band and black line. Very pleasing de-
sign. Can always be matched. Price, set, 72/6
* v-.
a,*
%
JARDINIERES
13/6
In dull Black Gilt,
with Red Rose Deco-
ration. New Wemb-
ley shape, Bin. wide
Our ranges of superior Glassware and Crockery are undoubtedly among
the finest in Sydney. We quote a few lines typical of the excellent
offerings available. Our prices, as usual, are exceedingly low, quality
considered.
w
GLASS CRUET SET, 9/-
Well-cut Cruet Set in superior-quality Glass, shown at
left. Consisting of large Mustard-container, Salt-pourer
and Pepper-shaker, on oval tray. Price, per set . . 9/-
RING M 2401
At any hour, day and night, Anthony
Horderns unique Telephone Service is
at your disposal. Just when you think of
it, ring for the goods you require. Your
order will receive prompt attention.
ŵ
ẁ
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED,
SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.


On the Crest
of theWhve
ẃ
m
*2
i
m
*
There are more bottles of Old
Court Whisky sold in Australia
today than of any other single
brand of whisky on the market.
This brief statement is sufficient to finally
and conclusively prove the popularity of
Old Court whisky, and to convince every
man that in quality, age, purity and flavor,
Old Court whisky is completely satisfying
the Australian taste.
K 0 ‘SrourT
Qht Vorlcfc Purest
THE NATION S FIRST FAVORITE


Gen tlemen, for
Wmter Wear, the
Choice is
\
■/.-K
• |
m
m
m
m
„ m
% m
m
BBK
pi
:
v
99
They were the most popular suitings for street wear
in England this Winter. Judging by the smart new weaves just
received they’re going to eclipse every other material here as well.
MADE TO-MEASURE
7,8, 9, 10 & 1 11 GNS.
There are Donegal Tweeds, and Ballymenas, Perthshires, York-
shires and Cromartys. Designs are in neat stripe, check and
herringbone effects. Tweeds are so comfortable, practical, too,
during chilly winter months. Get the most wear and the best
selection by calling or sending for patterns to-day.
DAVID JONES’
Castlereagh, Market and Elizabeth Streets
Also Branch Men’s Shop, opposite G.P.O.
out into the alley while her domicile of
mud or sunbaked bricks (adobe in Mexico)
was wearing out. The fall of the exhausted
house, which in one or two cases revealed
by scientific diggers buried the family
underneath, probably came in time for its
mortal remains to fill a void in the debris
and smooth things off.
The finding of successive ruins and suc-
cessive layers of debris reveals a tendency
to rebuild on the old spot, or a sort of
homing instinct like that of the stork or the
supposedly-drowned cat. Varieties in the
debris suggest that different races had in-
habited the place, so at times the old town
may have been battered down instead of
dying in its boots from natural causes. De-
ferences in the quality of debris furnish
evidence that civilisation was sometimes
climbing up and sometimes sliding down.
Layers of clay and the like, sandwiched in
between ruins and layers of ashes, imply
that the floods brought down silt from the
mountains then as they do still. And buried
at the apparent bottom of things the ex-
plorers located a bed of clay which is so
dead level, so free of relics and animal
traces, and so thick (unless further inspec-
tion proves it not so thick after all) as to
be assuredly something left behind itself by
the boss or old-man damp of all record.
And if it was great enough to clean up a
neglected earth, as alleged or assumed, it
must have been some moisture in these
parts and it must have stayed there a while.
But whether the discovery corroborates
the story in Genesis is a different matter.
There is a difficulty in deciding what really
is the story in Genesis. It rained for 40
days and 40 nights, but I have been in
places where it rains more than that, and
does so every year, without any deltige
resulting. I generally left early in the
disturbance, but I got later information
from the newspapers. The striking state-
ment is made that “the fountains of the
great deep were broken up.” The clouds
are not a “deep” but a height, and they
break downwards instead of up, so an idea
has been promulgated that the close passage
of a record size in meteors caused a very
extra-special record outsize in tidal waves,
and in that case the fountains of the great
deep would naturally break up to some
purpose.
The theory has been advanced that the
whole meteoric system of which we
have any knowledge was caused by the
bursting of a large planet which once re-
volved between Saturn and Jupiter, and
which became unable to pay its debts at
some date unknown. Supposing this to be
the date that fact would account for many
things—in fact, for almost anything. If
the great bulk of the human race was really
destroyed that might arise through them
sticking around the original home farm,
though they are reported to have gone
travelling afterwards. The further state-
ment that the flood waters were about
22ft. deep is weakened by the fact that we
are not told where the calculation started
from. It certainly seems impossible that
they can have been 22ft. above the Ark.
The narrative is interesting but imper-
fect., and there is lack of evidence on many
points, especially regarding the old planet
which went broke between Saturn and
Jupiter. No visible hope exists of proving
or disproving it by digging a hole in Meso-
potamia or anv other place.
J.E.
Exiles of Erin
In a prefatory note to his book. Young
Ireland in Exile (Talbot Press), the Rev.
J. H. Cullen, of Hobart, rather disarms
criticism by stating that an attempt had
been made “to collect into one volume in-
formation about the Tasmanian career of
the Irish State Prisoners” and adding that
“nothing more is intended.” The infor-
mation gathered is very brief and sketchy,
though the author, within his unambitious
limitations, has done his job well. He has
relied chiefly upon the letters and “logs”
of the exiles and their friends, stringing
these together with simple comment or
statement. His work suggests that a more
romantic or imaginative handling of the
material would have made a book not only
interesting but exciting. .
The exiles—-William Smith O’Brien. John
Mitchel. Thomas Francis Meagher, Terence
Bellew McManus. John Martin. Patrick
O’Donohoe and Kevin Izod O’Doherty—
were members of the Young Ireland move-
ment which ended with the State trials at
Clonmel in 1848. Their offences were not
importantly different; all were political, and
the transported men were treated as political
prisoners. They suffered sundry indignities
and several of them severe physical hard-
ships; nevertheless, compared with the lot
of ordinaiy prisoners, many of whom were
no more criminals in any present-day
acceptance of the term than they them-
selves were, their troubles seem much less
terrible. They could become ticket-of-leave
men, they were allowed parole, they were
sufficiently unconfined to make escape,
though perhaps difficult, at least not impos-
sible. Their worst sufferings seem to have
been psychological rather than physical.
O’Brien, on his arrival at Hobart Town,
refused the conditions of a ticket-of-leave
and was removed to Maria Island,
where, says his historian, “in spite of the
vigilance of petty officials, the unhappy
captive received many sympathetic and con-
soling communications from his friends on
the mainland.” That “many” does not sug-
gest a cruelly vigilant guard, but there is
good evidence that O’Brien was persecuted
in a manner which, though it might seem
unimportant to an average mortal, must
have been galling to one who believed him-
self guiltless of any offence more heinous
than having loved his country. In spite of
the “vigilance of petty officials,” too,
arrangements were made—though O’Brien
was permitted to converse with no one—for
him to escape. A schooner was to stop off
Maria Island and send a boat ashore for
him. This happened according to plan, and
O’Brien plunged into the water and swam
out to the boat, but as he clambered aboard
his guard appeared at the water’s edge and
presented a musket, whereupon the boat-
men surrendered. He was then removed to
Port Arthur.
Here lie had a cottage for his own use. He was
also allowed to possess a library of interesting
volumes, collected for him by liis comrades and by
some generous colonists. He found his chief recrea-
tion in reading and study, and not even the constant
presence of a sentry disturbed his meditations.
Later a petition signed by 900 people in-
duced him to take a tieket-of-leave for six
months, and thenceforward he lived un-
eventfully until a conditional pardon per-
mitting him to go anywhere except to
Ireland set him free of Tasmania. A full
pardon came afterwards.
The thumbnail sketches of the other six
are equally interesting. Several of them
suffered much more severely than O’Brien
did, and in one instance at least these
sufferings helped to bring about an early
death. A few of the little band succeeded
in escaping, in circumstances which make
the reader wish a more graphic pen had
moved in the description. Meagher became
a brigadier-general in the American Civil
War and was later Acting-Governor of
Montana. O’Doherty apparently found this
part of the world congenial, for, though he
got back to Ireland, he settled later in
Brisbane, where he practised as a doctor
and later became a member of the Legis-
lative Assembly. He died in 1905, aged 81.
Books Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a com-
mittee nominated by the Associated Book-
sellers of Australia and Maoriland. It
is printed to serve as a guide to books of
merit:—
General Literature : Wanderings in Wild
Australia, by Sir Baldwin Spencer: The
Case for Individualism, by E. J. P. Bonn :
Kings of Commerce, by T. C. Bridges and
H. 11. Tiltman ; Boston, by Upton Sinclair;
After Thirty Years, by Viscount Gladstone;
Undertones of War, by Edmund Blunden;
Essays in Satire, by Ronald Knox; Mount-
ains, Gold and Cannibals, by D. Booth.
Novels of Literary. Merit : Ultima Thule,
by Henry Handel Richardson ; The Village
Doctor, by Sheila Kaye-Smith: Crescendo,
by E. Mannin.
Novels for Popular Reading: The Singing
Gold, by Dorothy Cottrell; Darkened Rooms,
by Sir Philip Gibbs: Accident, bv Arnold Ben-
nett; And All That Beauty, by Roy Bridges;
The Village Doctor, by Sheila Kaye-Smith;
Dear Acquaintance, by Rosemary Rees.
A Satchel of Books
The Psychic Babe, by E. A. Ilyvis (Henry
Walker), begins her career in S. Africa, and
proceeds presently to England, where she
stays. Love is the motif of a book which is
as blameless as the table-talk of a Girl Guide.
Motoring To-day and To-morrow, by the
Earl of Cottenliam (Methuen). Introduced
by John Buchan, and illustrated by A. E.
Horne. The author, one of Britain’s high
authorities on the car, writes with the
seriousness of an old squire describing an
ottei 1 hunt, and gives expert, advice on the
new sport from angles ranging from buying
and selling to racing.
Remembered Yesterdays, by Sir Solomon
Dias Bandaranaikc (Murray). Sir Solomon,
a Cingalese nobleman who lias spent 4-‘J
years in the public service of Ceylon, has
gathered his reminiscences into a bulky book
of special rather than general interest. His
life lias been upright and noble—admirable,
of course, but not over exciting to read
about.
The Five Boohs of Mr. Moses, by Izak
Goller (Methuen). A story of alien Jewry
in London not unworthy of comparison with
Zangwill’s treatment of the same subject in
“Tlie Children of the Ghetto.” The story
of the Jewish tailor from Poland who prided
himself on being an “Ainglisliclimann” and
as such became the guardian of a little
“shikseli,” or Christian girl, is full of life
and humor, witli the tragedy of the war and
its trail of wrecked humanity for a sombre
background.
Passing By and Overlooked, by Maurice
Baring (Heinemann). These two brief novels,
now bound in one volume, add attractively
to the Heinemann collected edition of Bar-
ing. The first is one of the most cleverly
constructed as it is one of the most beauti-
ful of novels made from mixed diary extracts
and letters. It has the convincing power
of actuality that makes the reader accept it
as autobiographical. The same element is
given to the other and rather more conven-
tionally-constructed brevity by the use of
the first person singular. It should be im-
pertinent at this stage to make any mention
of Mr. Baring’s mastery of beautiful prose
or. indeed, to any other of his great qualities
as a writer.
An Outline History of the Japanese
Drama, by Frank Alanson Lombard (George
Allen and Unwin). A careful, learned and
yet very easy treatment of a most interesting
subject. The author, who has been Professor
and Lecturer in English literature in Jap-
anese and Chinese universities, begins with
the god-plays of mythology and follows the
development of the drama almost up to the
present day, marking religions and other in-
fluences for and against and contriving to
outline a social history of Japan at the same
time. The hook is finely bound, well m-inted
and attractively illustrated.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except oj a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
N.G.M.: Much obliged; but it was handled
last week 1.C.P.: .You go the long way round to
get there. . . .A.N.M.: As unimpeachable as a mountain
of granite. . . .Arthur R.: Quite true; and yet do you
know that that original drawing was rushed !. .. .
Ben: Plainly you don’t know either the men them-
selves or those behind them. .. .F.G.: Longing to
be out in the bush doesn’t move us to pay any
of the fare E.C.P. : Closer than most A.E.H.:
Here’s hoping they will take your tip:—
Kingsford Smith and Co. wanted to fly
A Southern Cross Monoplane, in which to try.
After thev had flown from America to Australia
They thought they would go down on another Long
Trailer,
Over to England there to be,
In their 'plane so the people should see
That these daring young men, as cool as a Carp,
Could fly from Australia without playing the Harp.
But sooner or later if their Antics they don’t cease
They won’t remain long in one solid peace.
J.M.E.: “Shadow Witchery” now darkening
interior of w.p.b Kenna: A suspicion of
whiskers B.B.: Can’t make the space for
it 8.D.: You ought to feel better now—
our feelings don’t matter 1.P..T.: It’s when
you poets threaten him with dire vengeance
on Judgment Day that this critic feels grateful for
having led an exemplary life... .W.M.: Liked Bill,
who, before beginning his yarn, “tossed liis pipe
away.” They usually spit over a neighboring mess-
mate A.M.C.: Nothing in that trio Mary S.:
No room for mere pretty words about it..... H.W.:
Sob stuff W.T.: “Eyes” put out L.E.S.: Too
late for that occasion Sigs: Already found guilty.
Jury said nothing of mercy... .S.S.: “The Prison
Clock” is at any rate as good as “The Prisoner’s
Song” G.S.: Nothing new this autumn, apparently.
II. de B.: Not quite J. 0.: Jingle only
F.E.K.: Decidedly immature... .D.J.A.H.: Covering
letter did us good. Then we read the verse
E.P.: Have read “War” forward, backward, upside-
down, endways, sideways, crossways, as a triangle,
circle, square, oblong—same result every time
Myora: Not our kind S.A.S.: Has merit, but not
enough V. 8.: On the way home... .O.H.Sh.:
“Somehow, I had a glimmer of understanding.” Then
why didn’t you work it into the story ?.... W.F.8.:
Over-sentimental; cultivate restraint... .8.V.C.: Shows
signs of the scenario jerk... .C.A.S.: By no means
bad, but not clear-cut... .R.E.8.: Over the odds
W. .S. de W.: You might place it elsewhere....
J.H.T.S.: Same to you S.S.: Trust the black-
smith and his bride will enjoy “all the delights
of their martial life together”... .F.N.: Paste.
.... Wade R.: “The Well” not one of Jinglish
Undefiled... .A.J.: Brisk business at the bar:—
She serves them grog
With a scornful smile,
And when inflamed with the poison vile,
They try to embrace
That form of grace
And plant a kiss upon her face,
She disengages the clinging paws
And attends to the
Other thirsty roars.
Roberto: “I’m going away. I’m leaving to-day.”
Just a minute; here’s some of your baggage
Siegfried: All fail.. ..Erka: Whether you have a
verse future depends entirely upon whether or not
you can do a hundred times better... .F.T.: Out.
. ...0.H.G.: Has been remarked very often....
8.J.8.: New York Daily News, N. Y. Daily Mirror,
Boston Advertiser and Philadelphia News are ex-
amples of tabloid newspapers. There is nothing
quite like them in London, although the Daily Mir-
ror is somewhat similar in format. Gordon and
Gotch, Sydney, should he able to get copies for
y0u....Q.E.D.: Quite so, but that doesn’t affect the
arithmetical correctness of the answer. The last
number in the sequence at any stage must he halved
to provide the next, and no matter how small it is
it is a definite quantity. You can never get to zero,
and so you can never get. quite to a total of 72. . . .
T.H.S.: Books giving instruction are “Portrait-
Painting,” by Herbert Furst (John Lane) ; “The Art
of Portrait-Painting,” by John Collier (Cassell) ;
and “Practical Hints on Portrait-Painting,” by
John Burnet 0.L.J.: (1) and (2) Geicnig
the information. (3) No; lie should, however,
obtain permission to reprint and acknowledge
source. (4) Most publishers of fiction would con-
sider such a collection; a list is given in the
“Australian and N.Z. Writers’ and Artists’ Year
Book.” (5) Yes, provided the unpublished ones
were up to the standard of the others. ...
Maeve: Placing ’em is an art in free-lancing as well
as horse-racing... .D.J.W.: Opened well, but flopped.
... -T.VV.G.: Too late... .T.J.C.; Nice swing with it.
Pity it’s about the most hackneyed topic in the
world R.L.: On the rocks R.H.A.: “The
System” best forgotten. .. .Billy: No ears for Lulu’s
boat song... .H.W.: “There’s many a slip”—count
this in.... Raoul T.: Too close to the knuckle....
L. : Bright little story; try a woman’s maga-
zine. .. .R.G.; Very crude. .. .David W.: Capital idea.
See if you can’t think up a stronger ending....
D.L.: Too much Capertee; not enough poetry....
W.T.M.: You might find a home for it—but not
here 0.D.: Our Land Editor heartily endorses
your advice: —•
Fallow your land,
Don’t stop out late,
Keep off the shikker
And cultivate.
....Triangle: Sentiment splendid; verse up-ended.
. ...Q.T.: We begin to wish for a year without a
season.... M. A.: Merely a string of observations....
M. : You make a thousand on that note.... J.8.R.:
Idea would need to be very much better expressed.
. ...1.M.: Same old strong man; same old sweet
girl... .P.M.: Stories that end as dreams make
readers swear... .ILF.: No accommodation.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.C.8.: That joke was old before we became a
newspaper... .G.N.: There will be hope for you when
you clarify your penwork.... M.W.: No good, not
even as an idea K.W.: Hopelessly crude....
C.R.U.: -Miles below publication level... .N.A.Jd.:
We couldn’t take it into the family circle... .F.J.:
Your fashion-plate flappers won’t d 0.... A.C.G.:
Your tabbies who cull one another “dog’s body” are
painful... .J.H.G.: Not “at home” to Mrs. Hogan.
.. . .G.11.P.: There won’t be a cheque. ... E.R.:
Deformed figures mumbling imbecilities... .T.M.:
Not interested in freaks.


ẅ


The Bulletin
Vol. 50. —No. 2568.
May 1, 1929.
THE END OF A CHAPTER.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspapei
"Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
2ti George Street, Sydney-
Victoria: lli-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 21/9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 mouths, X,l is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, A 1 10*. i
6 months, ISs. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: ioz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional ioz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., ltd.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: ioz. or part thereof,
Id. Elseivhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
It ED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES 2, 5
AUSTRALIAN STORY ILLUSTRATIONS .. 2
THE DELUGE STORY CORROBORATED .. 2
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. •• 5
“The End of a Chapter”
—A Lesson Front-Page .. • • ■ • .. 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
Federal Arbitration —Scrap it! s
A New China, by “Feng-Shui” s
AUSTRALIAN WINES
Factory Wreckage in Queensland •• 8
WOMEN IN PUBLIC JOBS—By Mrs. Muscio,
President of N.S.W. Council of Women .. 8
LAW REFORM—By Daniel Levy, Speaker of
N.S.W. Assembly .. .. .. .. 8
“JUSTICE’S HALF-TIME JOB”
—A cartoon by Percival 9
POLITICS (with caricatures) 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. .. 11, 12
PERSONAL (WITH DRAWING BY NORMAN
LINDSAY) 14
POVERTY POINT 10
“ ‘HONORS’ IN SPORT,” by Scorfield .. .. 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. -.17
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
McDOWELL’S, LTD 18
Picture Show Investments & West’s .. 18
BON MARCHE 18
ABORIGTNALITIES (with drawings) .. 23, 25
Free Service Department .. 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 31
CONCRETE FENCING POSTS 28
SMOKE-011 :< 2
“A Rogue in Amber” •• ..34, 55, 58
PEN AND PICTURE 37
THE SUPPRESSED FILM “DAWN” .. . . 37
SPORTING (Illustrated) 39, 41, 42
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 44
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 46
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 49
VERSE 53, 58
“MILESTONES,” by Furnley Maurice .. .. 58
Two Complete Stories —
“PORCELAIN BATHS,” by Margaret Fane
and Hilary Lofting .. .. • • 51, 53
“Justice,” by Thomas P. Baker .. .. 57
TTuT^SidldS/fl
WEDNESDAY, MAY 1, 1929.
SCRAP IT!
It was reported from Canberra the other
day that the Bruce-Pagk Ministry was about
to appoint three inspectors “to police
awards and enforce Commonwealth indus-
trial legislation,” and proposed to confer
inspectors on “all industries governed by
Federal awards.” The announcement was
made during the tenth week of the timber
workers’ strike against the Lukin award,
and was the cause of great merriment among
the heads of that organisation, especially
those who organised the public burning of
the Lukin ballot-papers and effigy in
Sydney; also among the bosses of the Aus-
tralian Council of Trade-Unions, who have
declared a boycott of the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court, and the rulers of the
Waterside Workers’ Federation, who brought
about a stoppage of work on the wharves
of the entire continent on the ground that
Judge Beeby’s award was “vicious and
pernicious.”
But farmers, mine-owners, manufacturers
and taxpayers in general see no humor in
the proceeding. They know that the coun-
try is already swarming with Government
employees—the Commonwealth Statistician
counted 231,816 at June 30, 1927, and there
is a large annual increase, particularly heavy
in Queensland before a State election. They
know, too, that Australia can’t sell its goods
abroad (wool, wheat and a few other com-
modities excepted) without all sorts of sub-
ventions, and that over-regulation of indus-
try is largely to blame.
What the people are looking to Canberra
for is not the creation of another absurd
department in an attempt to prop up a
crazy edifice, but the removal of the crazy
edifice. It is plain to all men with seeing
eyes and unprejudiced minds that compul-
sory arbitration, so called, has broken
down; equally plain that it can’t be mended
and ought to be ended, as far (and as
soon) as the Commonwealth Government
can do the job. The “new province for law
and order” of the late Justice Higgins’s
fancy has become notorious for lawlessness
and disorder. In it lawyers who have spent
half their lives in musty chambers play at
being industrial dictators with a lofty con-
tempt for the value of time. A Judge
Brockman spends 32 sitting days listening
to one witness, a locomotive engine-driver;
a Justice Piddington sternly rebukes an
advocate for objecting to the annual dis-
cussion, which lasts for months, as to what
it costs to feed, powder, clothe, perfume and
house a working-class family; some unions
wait years and pay five figures for the
privilege of getting their grievances heard;
and some employex’s are always defending
claims, for in large businesses many unions
are represented and it would be disasti'ous
to let a case go by default.
In shoi’t, the system is tedious, costly and
pi’ovocative, for the pai’ties enter and emei’ge
from the court as litigants; it puts a danger-
ous power in the hands of the unscrupulous
sort of union officials; it heavily handicaps
wage-payers in their unceasing fight with
foi’eign competitors; it utterly fails to pre-
vent and settle industrial disputes; and,
because the judgments of these comic-opera
tribunals are unenforceable in fact though
enforceable in theory, it exposes the Gov-
ernment to ridicule and contempt.
The most urgent need of the moment in
Australia is a reduction in the cost of pro-
duction sufficient to enable us (1) to sell
our goods abroad without bounties and the
like, (2) to arrest the useless and dangerous
inflation of money .wages, and (3) to give
honest working people more employment as
well as cheaper living. This reform could
be brought about by intelligent and loyal
co-operation between Governments and
people; but not while industry remains at
the mercy of the Brockmans and Bidding-
tons.
We shall have to go back to a simpler
and saner system—to conciliation boards, if
employers and employees want them, in
the Federal sphere, and to wages boards,
if they want them, in the State sphere.
Canada, with no Brockmans or Bidding-
tons, or any of their tribe, considers it a
bad year when there are 77 strikes with a
loss of 296,811 working days (the total in
1926); Australia in 1927 had 441 strikes
with a loss of 1,713,581 working days and
£1,676,000 in wages. And Canada has steady
surpluses of exports and revenue and annual
reductions of the national debt and the
income-tax. Australia has none of these
very desirable things.
OUR OWN GOOD WINE!
Visitors with foreign standards of compari-
son as regards wine-drinking always express
astonishment at the relatively small quan-
tity of Australian wine drunk by Austra-
lians. The “Commonwealth Year Book”
gives half a gallon as the amount consumed
per head per year in the last five years.
The consumption of spirits per head of the
population was practically the same —.41
of a gallon.
The veteran Victorian judge in the wines
section at the just-ended Sydney Show was
enthusiastic about the champion clarets and
hocks, and even more so about the sparkling
wines. He said of the last-named: “They
would compare favorably with any of the
French productions.” Why, then, do we con-
sume little of our wines, as wines, and im-
port so much foreign wine every year? One
reason is snobbishness; the same miserable
sentiment which for many years kept Aus-
tralian hats, tweeds and boots in bad odor.
Many an Australian host still feels that
he ought to apologise to the guests when
he puts the wine of his country on his
table. But the phase is dying out.
All but a few impostors, who repeat
sneers that are now pointless, recognise that
few champagnes, clarets, hocks or burgun-
dies are now imported which even equal
the best wines of these types which are
being produced on the spot. Another han-
dicap to the consumption of local wines is
provided by the State Governments. The
N. S. Wales and Victorian Licenses Reduc-
tion Boards terminate wine licenses at every
sitting, and the closing hours of most of
the States are unfavorable to wine-drinking
with the evening meal. And then there are
the high prices of the sound vines and the
deadly perils of the unsound ones.
France, Italy, Spain and Portugal all
built up their wine industries by creating
home markets. And they did it in each
case by concentrating on the production
of a vin ordinaire which the poor could
afford to buy, and could drink with con-
fidence. There is talk of a movement on
similar lines to popularise the drinking of
Australian wines by -Australians; and if
it comes to anything the effect on the in-
dustry should be better than any number
of bounties paid to help our wines abroad
in competition with products of the famous
Chateau districts, which have dominated the
chief foreign markets for so many genera-
tions. The Australian worker would first
have to be convinced that his country’s
light, dry wines are not merely as clean and
delicate in taste as any at the price, but
that they are also as healthful. This may
take time, skill and money owing to the
bad advertisement given to the industry
by the poisons which have been retailed in
certain grogshops. Also our standardised
red and white wines—guaranteed for quality
by responsible experts—would have to be
made available at reasonable figures. Good
light French wines which the Diggers had
got into the habit of drinking when the
Armistice arrived did not cost more than
Is. 6d. a bottle, even to Dominion sol-
diers; and it is likely that Australia’s vin
ordinaire would need to be almost as cheap
to make a general appeal.
And the development should do more
for the cause of real temperance than herds
of prohibition agents. The most notice-
able social feature of all the wine-drinking
countries is their freedom from drunken-
ness.
THE NEW CHINA.
If the committee which awards the Nobel
Peace prize is in any doubt about 1928, it
might usefully consider presenting the
guerdon to Sun Yat-Sen. It is true that
the gentleman is dead; still the money
might be spent in crackers to be fired about
his tomb. The Chinese appreciate posthu-
mous decorations, especially when there
is a chance of exploding fireworks over
them.
Sun’s gift to peace was Chinese Nation-
alism. Until recently most foreigners re-
garded Chinese Nationalism as a disease.
Actually it has turned out to be a religion.
At first a creed held by a few fanatics, it
is now the religion of the whole country, or
the articulate part thereof. A religion has
to have a god, and the god of Chinese
Nationalism is the late Dr. Sun. The
ritual of his worship consists of the recital
of his will and his Three Principles and the
performance of the kowtow before a photo-
graph of the bullet-headed little idealist.
The fact that the will is impracticable and
the Three Principles are socialistic nonsense
is of no importance. Few religions suffer
through being founded on mumbo-jumbo.
Also the fact that hundreds of people, in-
cluding myself, can remember Sun when he
was driving round Shanghai in a billy-
cock hat and sitting in an office acting as a
prosaic Minister for Railways, likewise
makes no difference. This is a hustling
world, and four years after his death Sun
is securely seated on his throne with a halo
about him. So secure is his. seat that
when, the other day, an Englishman was
appointed to control the Customs, lie was
obliged to recite the creed and make his
three bows in front of the god’s portrait,
to the scandal of old hands in the European
settlements.
The discovery of the Chinaman that lie
is a Chinaman, instead of merely a mem-
ber of a local clan, has had remarkable
consequences. Last year the British Gov-
ernment completely changed its policy
towards him. It practically gave up all its
rights, privileges and concessions in the
interior and contracted to the seaboard.
In a few short months something like 5000
missionaries returned to their homelands,
including Australia, where they can find
plenty to do.
This dramatic change had nothing to do
with the fact that the Nationalists had
the world’s largest standing army. As a
military force and despite its tanks, aero-
planes and poison-gas section, the Chinese
Army has no modem significance, as the
Japanese showed in Shantung by com-
pletely routing a host estimated at 150,000
with a force of less than 15,000. What the
foreign offices of the world have gradually
come to realise is that what they were
fighting in China was not material force
but an idea, and ideas have an awkward
habit of not being amenable to either
reason or bayonets. Being, contrary to
opinion, one of the most assimilative people
in the world, the Chinese profited by the
instruction they got during the Great War;
but instead of using the military weapon,
they concentrated on the economic. A
little time ago British soldiers shot some
Chinese Nationalists at Canton. Who
was to blame has not been settled, and
probably never will be; but the Chinese
regarded the presence of British soldiers
at Canton precisely as we would regard
that of Chinese soldiers at Mildura. Hav-
ing little military force they applied the
boycott, and the trade of British Hong
Kong promptly threatened to sink to van-
ishing point. Old-established firms, house-
hold words in the East, went bankrupt, and
British employees started by every boat on
their melancholy trek homewards. It was by
no means the first time the Chinese had
used the boycott, but it was the first time
it had been used nationally and religiously.
That was Sun’s contribution.
After Canton the technique of the boy-
cott was developed scientifically. Coolies
were drilled in the art, chambers of com-
merce endorsed it, and professors even
taught it in the universities. It has, on the
whole, been extraordinarily successful. To
the Chinese Government winning a boy-
cott is as important as winning a war or
an election is to other Governments. The
boycotts have, of course, entailed great suf-
fering on the Chinese themselves, but it is
doubtful whether they have proved a more
expensive method of settling international
disputes than the established method of
mass murder.
The Japanese, with the most to lose, have
been the last to succumb to boycott persua-
sion. The British Government, sqme say
pusillanimously and some say with rare
statesmanship, have resolved their most
pressing differences with the Chinese by
negotiation; and Hong Kong is once more
booming. . ...
The worst temptation to go to war that
can be placed in the way of rival imperial-
isms like America, Britain, Japan and
Russia is the existence of desirable terri-
tories lacking responsible owners. In 1927
war between two or three or all the above-
mentioned imperialisms over China was not
so very remote a possibility. It is much
remoter at present, and for that Dr. buN
deserves the credit. But no doubt Mr.
Kellogg will get the prize.
Feng-Shui.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Queensland’s Industrial Wreckage.
Queensland Premier McCormack says his
side is sure of winning the State election,
and, considering the facilities the Govern-
ment agents have for arranging things, that
is not unlikely. But it certainly won’t
be re-elected on the ground of what it has
done for the State.
During its long term of office this com-
bination of inefficiency and effrontery has
contrived so to wreck manufacturing in-
dustries that the proportion of the popula-
tion employed in honest factory production
has greatly declined. These figures are
illuminative:—
Proportion per 10,000 Inhabitants in Factory
• Industries, lUIS-27.
N.S.W. .. Increase 154 I S. Australia Increase 107
Victoria .. Increase 140 j Westralia .. Increase 85
Tasmania.. Increase 123 | Queensland . Decrease 68
As an example of consistent rottenness
spread over a term of years, that example
would be hard to equal.
And in the actual number of factories,
Queensland, the third State of the Common-
wealth in point of population, shows up in
the same fashion:—
Increase in Number of Factories, 1915-27.
N. S. Wales .. 2953 I Westralia .. 436
Victoria .. .. 2277 Tasmania .. 178
S. Australia .. 541 | Queensland .. 107
There is still a third way of presenting
the industrial case, and it also shows
McCormack’s State at the bottom of the
class. In 1915 the value of goods turned
out by Australian factories equalled £34
4s. 2d. per inhabitant, and in 1927 the
figure was £66 17s. 7d. The account was
subdivided among the States as follows:
Value oe Factory Output per Inhabitant, 1915-27.
1915. 1927. Increuse.
N. S. Wales .. £33 13 5 £76 7 5 £42 14 0
Victoria .. 36 1 10 74 8 5 38 6 7
H. Australia .. 31 16 0 65 2 7 33 6 7
Westralia .. 17 14 5 41 7 7 23 13 2
Tasmania .. 21. 3 0 37 15 0 16 12 0
Queensland .. 37 0 10 40 17 0 9 10 2
Thus, under the McCormack party, the great
northern State showed the least expansion;
in fact, the increase in price probably
accounted for more than all of it, while
the increase in quantity was less than nil.
Queensland dropped from first place as a
factory producer to fourth.
. *
The Misfortune of Being; a Woman.
The Bulletin has over a score of letters
provoked by its comment on the deposition
of Miss Julia Flynn from the temporary
position of Chief Inspector of Vic. State
Secondary Schools. Extracts follow from
three of them.
A technical-school head writes:—
It might be true that male teachers would
resent having women in charge of schools,
but with respect to the women secondary
inspectors there is no such feeling.
In all schools that I have been connected
with the consensus of opinion was that Miss
Flynn knew her job and, though often severe,
was invariably fair and helpful. In my pre-
sent school, out of a staff of 20 there is
not one dissentient to the above opinion. The
body of teachers are behind Miss Flynn.
Another line of inquiry might be whether
the “A” group of public schools (that is,
those open to inspection by the secondary
board for the purpose of public examina-
tions) have any prejudice against their
schools being inspected by a woman.
From Mrs. Muscio, who, besides being
an educationist,' is president of the
National Council of Women, Sydney:—
Tlie qualifications of Miss Flynn were not
questioned; The Bulletin says that wliat
jarred was “the hint of inferiority implied
in a woman being chief over men —perhaps
a score of men.” Wliat is this but sex pre-
judice? The degree in which a man is free
from this prejudice is a good measure of his
intellectual development. In our day men
who suffer from a sense of the inferiority of
women are unfitted to exercise intellectual
authority over their fellows, especially over
the minds of the young.
A profound wrong was done to Miss
Flynn and to all women when this question
was raised by her immediate superior or
anyone else. Such a suggestion should never
have been made; to struggle against it is a
handicap that no man has had to endure.
Thus to encourage irrational inhibitions and
to suggest in any way that problems of dis-
cipline might arise was to provoke those
problems. A first-rate mind would not pro-
duce such a suggestion, nor countenance it
in others.
From a school inspector, retired:—
Anyone who has had to handle a mixed
staff of men and women will sympathise
with the Director of Vic. Schools in having
to decide between so fine an officer as Miss
Flynn and others of no higher qualifica-
tions who are males. It may be that we
ought to be ashamed to take advantage of
the ancient rumor that man is the superior
sex. But here the point was simply: “Which
person is likely to make the best officer -
that is to say, get the best work out of
the staff, leaving it better than lie (or she)
found it?” Indeed, those charged with the
selection had to go further and ask: “With
which possible appointee are we taking the
greater risks?” I can only assume that,
as the result of the probation, the Director
found that there were larger risks of one
sort and another involved in the appoint-
ment of a woman. . .
But don’t let the women think it is all
a matter of sex. It isn’t. I know men in
the school service who were never the suc-
cess tlieir mental attainments and moral
character warranted. Nature was unkind to
them in some wav or other, and as dis-
ciplinarians they were handicapped always.
The Need for Law Reform.
Dear Bulletin,—Most laymen will be
shocked to learn that if evidence is given
in a N.S.W. court of law involving directly
or indirectly the gravest charge against


JUSTICE WORKS PART-TIME.
Government ha g appointed a Commission to investigate Mr. Lang’s allegations of malpractices in the Parramatta by-election The Government has
a Comini ssion to inquire into the alleged bribing of N.S.W. politicians... Judge Edwards has been appointed a Commissioner to redistribute electoral
boundaries”....
LITIGANT: “Any hope of my case coming on?”
JUSTICE: “I’m afraid you will have to wait till the politicians have finished with the Judges!”
the most honorable man in the com-
munity, then, unless it can be said that
the evidence so given is strictly material to
the issue, the aggrieved person has no
opportunity, during that proceeding, to con-
tradict what has been sworn against him.
What remedy has such a man? He cannot
bring an action for libel, because the law
attaches absolute privilege to evidence given
in a law court. He cannot, unless he is
phenomenally lucky, get a newspaper to
publish a contradiction of the false evidence
referred to. The newspaper would probably
be afraid of an action for libel being
brought by the witness referred to, whose
sworn evidence would be thus falsified.
What a glorious state of the the law! What
a striking illustration of British fairplay and
justice!
In proceedings before a Royal Commis-
sion, things are different. There, as soon
as a man’s name is mentioned in a dis-
paraging sense, that man is given a full
opportunity of contradicting on oath the
evidence to which he takes exception. The
legal rules of evidence do not apply.
In recent years nearly every Act of Par-
liament which establishes a quasi-judicial
tribunal provides that the legal rules of
evidence shall not strictly apply to proceed-
ings before that tribunal. Is this not a
recognition that the legal rules of evidence
—or many of them—formulated many years
ago and which perhaps have served a useful
purpose on the whole, are now not the best
means of eliciting all the facts which should
be considered by a tribunal? Is it not clear
that the time has arrived for a serious
alteration in our legal rules of evidence?
But this is only one phase of the need for
Law Reform in this State. Nearly 26 years
ago I put on the business paper of the
Legislative Assembly a notice of motion
affirming the need of a Royal Commission
to inquire into the question of Law Reform,
with a view to making the administration
of justice in our courts cheaper, simpler
and swifter. For almost four years I essayed
to get to my motion, but without success.
At last I took the opportunity afforded by
a debate on the Address-in-Reply to ex-
plain my views on the subject at consider-
able length. My speech—if I may say so
without egotism—was much applauded
inside and outside Parliament. But no such
Commission was appointed. Since that time
some of the proposals which I outlined
have found their way on to the Statute
Book of N.S.W., and other measures of
reform have been accomplished; but very
much remains to be done. In fact, the
whole machinery of legal procedure requires
a thorough overhauling.
Will the Attorney-General, who is a keen
and capable man, please take notice?
—Yours, etc., Daniel Levy.
+
The Decadence of Law.
In 1925 President Coolidge declared that
the U.S.A. has the world’s record for crimi-
nality. The reason he held to be that in
the older nations crime rarely remained
unpunished, whereas in America it very
often did, and does.
President Hoover has taken an early
opportunity to endorse this statement. “Life
and property in the United States,” he say£,
“are relatively less safe than anywhere else
in the world. Twenty times as many per-
sons, in proportion to population, are law-
lessly killed in the United States as in
Britain. In many of our great cities mur-
der can, apparently, be done with impu-
nity.” As to property, the proportion of
robberies is no less than fifty times greater
than it is in the older land.
He lays the charge directly against the
people. The sin is theirs. “In our desire
to be merciful,” he says, “the pendulum has
swung in favor of the prisoner and far
away from the protection of society.”
Around the criminal is thrown a glamor of
romance, largely the work of the yellow
press.
An American criminologist, in analysing
the causes, indicates imperfections in home
training, police methods, an elective judi-
ciary and the opportunities offered by inter-
minable appeals to delay and frequently
defeat justice. “But,” he remarks, “we have
another trouble. It is that we have in hid-
ing behind the masks of learning many
theorists and faddists engaged in feather-
dusting criminality”—men who “furnish to
the subversive and revolutionary conspira-
tors a chance to disguise their attack upon
law enforcement and authority by the false
label of ‘enlightenment.’ ” The real reason
for punishing the law-breaker—that such
punishment shall serve as a warning to mil-
lions of others of what it will cost them to
indulge in defiance of the law—has indeed
been lost sight of, till the popular impres-
sion is conveyed that the consequences of
crime may be evaded with ease, or, if not
evaded, be suffered in comparative comfort.
♦
John Bull’s Tobacco Pouch.
What a market there is for tobacco in
Britain and how vastly the demand has
increased of recent years is set forth in the
latest Port of London statistics. Imports
are more than double the pre-war figures.
In 1910 the maximum stock held in the
London warehouses was 17,000 tons, whereas
a few months ago 45,000 tons was on hand
there, “sufficient,” it is recorded with a
certain pensive pride, “to supply the male
population of the country with 1? ounces
each week for a year.” And London is
not the only port of distribution.
To-day one-fifth of Britain’s supplies
comes from Empire countries, whereas a
few years ago the proportion was only one-
twentieth. Relatively speaking, the United
States, Egypt, Turkey and other outside
countries are being knocked back, and
Rhodesia, Nyassaland and British posses-
sions in Asia are pushing forward. Pre-
ferential duties, of course, have helped
largely to this result. Yet Australia cannot
supply even a fraction of its own needs,
although tobacco was actually grown here
nearly a century before Rhodesia was
colonised.
Fashions change in many things, but it
seems a pretty safe prediction that the
world will continue to consume more and
more tobacco, and that the countries which
have had the foresight and enterprise to
encourage the growing and curing of it
will reap a rich harvest. Any organisation
which could put the industry fairly on its
feet in Australia, any Government which
would lend practical assistance, would
deserve to be gratefully remembered. Suc-
cess, however gradual, would keep millions
of money in the country that now go out
of it and bring millions in that now go
elsewhere. With the range of climate and
the varieties of soil which this continent
possesses it is absurd to suppose that we
must always rely on less favored countries
for what is more and more an essen-
tial need of mankind, and a potential source
of wealth to the producer in almost every
other part of the world.
4
An Examination for Jurors,
Here in my small district one
man has been selected twice inside the last
six months to serve on a jury. He is pro-
bably the dullest intellect in the community,
to start with—talks endlessly about the
iniquity of “men like H. V. McKay” being
allowed to “fatten on the flesh and blood of
the poor workers,” who, so he asserts, are
“bound body and soul under the heel of the
oppressor,” whoever that may be. Yet, on
the last occasion, he was selected as foreman
of the jury he was on. I was not surprised
to read presently that the prisoner was
found not guilty, and the presiding Judge
sarcastically congratulated him on his luck.
Another man was brought back from a
country job a hundred miles away to serve
on a jury. He lost £4 10s. in wages besides
his fare. So again I was not a bit surprised
when he told me he had fought and suc-
ceeded in obtaining an acquittal in both
the cases he was on. His troubles about
justice! He wanted to get even with the
flamin’ cows for draggin’ him back to the
city before his job was finished.
I was on one jury myself. We were held
up for hours by a crank who believed that,
though the prisoner was guilty, the Lord
would punish him later on. On that occasion
the State was put to the expense of a second
trial; fortunately for the community, the
jury then had no hesitation in finding the
prisoner guilty.
There should be some sort of examination
to ascertain a man’s fitness or otherwise.
We insist on training the man who shall
serve us in the job of policeman. But when
he has caught our criminals for us we allow
ignorant cranks to sit in a jury-box and
endanger the country’s welfare because, like
my tradesman friend, they have a personal
grievance.
4
The Export of Stud Sheep.
It can only be hoped that the majority
decision of the N.S.W. Graziers’ Association
not to ask for a Federal embargo on the
export of stud sheep to S’Africa will not
recoil on their own heads. That many
growers had awakened to the serious
menace is seen in the voting, the diehards
winning by 51 to 42 only.
Typical of the attitude of some of the
opponents of the proposed embargo were
the statements of a couple of speakers who
said that if S’Africa could not get high-
class merinos from Australia, it would get
them from other countries. What other
countries? One speaker was rash enough to
quote America. Apart from the fact that
the best of America’s fine wools cannot
be compared with those grown in Australia,
America is straining every nerve to catch
up with its own wool requirements, and
especially in the direction of the precious
fine wools in which this country has led the
world for many years. It does not seem,
therefore, that the Afrikanders have much
to expect in the way of assistance from
America, even if that assistance were worth
while, which is doubtful.
One of those desiring to approach the
Government for an embargo on export is
George Warby, she,epgrower of standing and
experience, who has just returned from
S’Africa, which last season pastured 36 mil-
lion sheep of approved wool-growing types.
He visited most of the leading flocks,' and
several of these he thought would compare
favorably with the leading studs of Aus-
tralia. He made particular inquiries as to
the influence of recently-imported Aus-
tralian merino rams, and ascertained that
the standard of the S’African flocks was
solely due to these, and that the importa-
tion would have to continue for years until
a local type had become fixed.
What S’African competition may mean
can be judged by another of Mr. Warby’s
findings—whereas in Australia it costs a
shilling a sheep to shear and bale, it costs
but a penny in South Africa!
The sentimental argument put forward
by one speaker that trade could not be
restricted within the Empire was equally
based on illusion. Trade restrictions already
exist between S’Africa and Australia, to
say nothing of Canada. Further, S’Africa
has recently entered into a trade treaty
with Germany, which gives the latter fav-
ored-nation treatment not only over Britain
itself but over the sister dominions.
4,
In contrast to the attitude of the U.S.
authorities towards the rights of foreign
nationals in the I’m Alone incident is that
of the British judiciary as illustrated in the
recent case of Foster v. Driscoll, which
came before the English Court of Appeal.
Various English people conceived the idea
of equipping a vessel, loading her with
whisky in cases, sending her across the
Atlantic and selling the whisky either in
the U.S.A. or to bootleggers just outside
the dry territory—“to some person (as'the
report has it) “who had facilities for dis-
posing of it within that territory, in viola-
tion of the laws of the U.S.” A contract
was drawn up and signed in England, and
when an action was brought for a breach
of this contract the trial Judge refused to
say that it was void as against public policy.
The Court of Appeal, however, by a
majority held that the contract was bad
on this ground—that “international comity”
bade them refuse to assist their people to
break the law of a friendly Power,


25,000 MILES
AND NO CARBON
A team of six British motor cyclists recently completed an endurance test on a 350 c.c. Dunelt motor
cycle, at Monthlery track, Paris. A distance of 25,000 miles was covered in 554 hours. During the
test the engine was not decarbonised once-a forceful demonstration of the unique anti-carbon
properties of SHELL Motor Oil and Spirit which were used throughout this gruelling test.
SHELL
MOTOR OIL
AND SPIRIT
POLITICAL
POINTS
Queensland Labor has had 43 seats (there
are 72 altogether) in the last two State
Parliaments, and Lewis MacDonald, its secre-
LEWIS MACDONALD.
tary, says it will have 43 in the next. The
Opposition swears it will dish Bruce in Ken-
nedy. Speaker Bertram in Maree, ex-Senator
Ferricks in South Brisbane, C. J. liyan in
Eacham, McLachlan in Merthyr, Conroy in
Maranoa, Lloyd in Kelvin Grove and Win-
stanley in Queenton, and gives itself pretty
good chances in nine or ten other electorates.
It is everywhere allowed that the Opposition
will poll a majority of votes, but to get a
majority of seats it will have to overcome
Gerrymander and Co., who will fight to the
last ghost.
News from Russia is to the effect that
Mr. Menzhinsky, chief of the Obiedinionnoje
Gosudarstvennoje Politischokoje Upravlenie,
or Inquisition which hunts for the disaffected,
is sick of a mysterious complaint and feel-
ing almost as bad as he deserves to do. His
predecessor, Mr. Dzherjinsky, died the same
way about two years ago.
Tas. Opposition-leader Lyons urges McPhee
to summon Parliament
without delay to
arrange for a loau cov-
ering the damage done
by the floods, and to
consider the proclama-
tion of a moratorium.
Lyons has in mind the
possibility of mort-
gagees foreclosing on
cottages in the flooded
areas, but the history
of moratoriums here
and elsewhere does not
encourage enthusiastic
belief in either their
necessity or their effec-
tiveness. The only
way in which the Tas.
Government can pro-
tect time-payment vic-
tims without doing
more harm than good
is to accept responsi-
bility for legal pay-
ments due until things
become normal again.
Though mortgagees
Ex-Premier Lyons.
may appear to be get- ,
ting the best of the salvage from tile floods,
there is always the State’s power of taxation
to even things up.
Prime Minister Paid win says he will go
on safeguarding British industries as occa-
sion offers. Lloyd George says his Austra-
lian policy of big loans and public works
has been examined by the Government, which
can find no holes in it, and the Government
retorts that it found the thing all hole except
where it was tripe. And Ram MacDonald
asserts that if the country will only give lnni
a majority like Baldwin’s he. will produce a
paradise out of his coat-tail pocket right
off at short notice, but details are scarce.
The struggle to bring the Newcastle coal-
miners to some agreement which will prevent
foreign imported coal overrunning the Aus-
tralian market continues on its unsatisfac-
tory way. The latest thing in strikes didn t
show an encouraging spirit. A mine employ-
ing 350 men closed for a whole hriday
because two employees who had charge °f a
horse objected to the low quality of the
beast’s breath. Work was resumed next
week, the horse having ceased to breathe
or the, men having become used to it. The
average number of working days lost in the
N S.W. mines annually during recent years
has been 1.734,034. and the childish stupidity
about the horse accounted for 350 days.
Running a business in N. S. Wales —beer-
shops. picture-shows and cash-order stores
excepted—is very far from being a joke these
times. On top of the 44-hour week, the
increased railway and income-tax rates, the
child-endowment tax, the Trades and Labor
Council and “Good Old Piddo,” employers
working under Federal awards have been
ordered to pay their hands from 3s. to ss. a
week more, the necessaries of life being reck-
oned to be that much dearer than in Decem-
ber. Australia is the only country in the
world in which the cost of living is higher
than it was in 1922. If a serious effort is
not made to bring it down by . delivering
industry from its superfluous “Piddos ’ and
kindred frills and excessive taxes, something
will break.
The wages of everybody who toils under
a Federal award are to go up, but the State
which rushed blindly into the child-endow-
ment business to oblige “Good ole Piddo
will have to shell out most. It is roughly
estimated that the increased wage bill m
N. S Wales will be at the rate of £2,000,000
a year, and the average factory wage rate in
the Ma State is already the highest in Aus-
tralia. Certainly Piddo lately demanded
to know why an employers’ representative
“couldn’t be plain and honest about it, and
told him that N. S. Wales has “the cheapest
labor in Australia”; but that was only
Piddo. The railway departments will now
get another shock, and they weren’t feeling
well before.
Yic.’s McPherson Ministry heaved a sigh
of relief at the High Court’s declaration that
teaching is not an industry within the mean-
ing of the Arbitration Act. and that conse-
quently the Teachers’ Union cannot apply
to Dethridge, Lukin or Becby for an award.
Apart from the fact that the McPhersons arc
opposed to the Federal Arbitration Court
meddling in State matters, the granting of
even a third of what the teachers asked in
their log would have seriously embarrassed
the Treasurer. Since 1920 the status and
pay of the Vic. teaching body have been
greatly improved, and there is now no short-
age of -instructors.
While devising all sorts of burdens for
Australians who spend ivhat little they have
in their own country, our politicians never
think of collecting a little from the array
of trippers who pack the overseas passenger-
boats for six or seven months of the year
and carry away millions for foreign publi-
cans, showmen, drapers, furriers, jewellers,
taxi-brigands and the like. This year the
rush to Europe and America has outdis-
tanced all previous migrations of the kind
and the drain of wealth will be tremendous.
A Federal tax of, say, 5 p.c. on tickets for
the outward journey (with exemption for
passengers who go to see the graves of sol-
dier-sons, -husbands or -brothers) would
bring in at least quarter of a million, and the
oppressive income-tax rates could be corres-
pondingly reduced. Other countries do it.
Though the Courts are very busy and an-
other big deficit is in sight, the N.S.W. Button-
hole Government has taken Coyle from the
District Court, and commissioned him to
inquire expensively into Slang’s latest
“charges”; and it has deprived the Supreme
Court of Davidson so that “the circum-
stances of the alleged attempt to bribe the
late Chief Secretary” may be “investigated,
regardless of cost, to the satisfaction ot
•Tarvie and Ness, Nationalist M’s.L.A. Yet it
is all George-street, Sydney, to a faked
ballot-paper that Slang will abandon his
charges, as he did in the Savings Bank case;
moreover, Jarvic and Ness clearly owe it
to their constituents and their party, as well
as themselves, to resign and stand again.
That is what much more important public
men have done, times, out of number, when
their honor has been assailed.
The Royal Commission business cost Aus-
tralia just on £30.000 in 1925-26, and just
over £31,000 in '26-27. It is expected that
'27-28 will show a vast increase, for the
Federal Child Endowment Commission alone
mopped up £16,000. In the hectic days of
Greg McGirr, a N.S.W. Labor politician
demanded a Royal Commission to prove that
lie did not look as if he had (or had had)
v.d., as the McGirr asserted. If the gentle-
man had nursed his grievance till the mania
for appointing Royal Commissions became
acute, he would have got one.
The Brucc-Page roads scheme is the silliest
thing that has been done in the Common-
wealth sphere of government for years, just
as the N.S.W. child-endowment tax, which
exempts wealthy barristers, surgeons and
bookmakers while taking. £2 in the £lOO of
wages from factories which are not paying,
is the silliest thing that has been done in the
State sphere. By undertaking to find
£2,000,000 p.a. for provincial roads, the
Bruce-Pages have disorganised their own
finances and assisted to demoralise those of
the States, for the States’ share of the ex-
penditure is borrowed. Now the parties to
the muddled business have been warned by
a committee of experts that they have wasted
money like water, and that-unless they take
a pull the waste will run into “many mil-
lions.” What else did anybody expect?
When a mob of timber-workers gathered
outside a Sydney courthouse to bo o at
Federal Judge
Lukin, who was
trying some of
their number on
charges of being
unlawfully on
strike, they found
the building guard-
ed by 150 State
police. But some
extraordinary per-
son in authority,
after a chat with
mob-leader Garden
(imp.), showed
them where they
could stand to boo
in comfort. “This
tactful move,” says
the S.M.H., “was
favorably com-
Judge Lukin.
mented on by the strike leaders, who ex-
pressed their appreciation of the attitude of
the police.” A section of the mob expressed
its “appreciation” in another fashion. On its
way home it found a solitary constable guard-
ing a timber lorry, dragged him from the
vehicle, kicked him insensible, and ran away.
A British Chamber of Commerce (York-
shire brand) has sent across the Atlantic
a protest against the threatened increase of
the Yankee tariff, which increase seems
specially directed against British and Aus-
tralian products. It was pointed out to
Uncle in the mildest possible way that
Britain already buys from him about
£130,000,000 worth more p.a. than L ncle
buys in return. Australia is one of J. Bull s
few really profitable customers, just as Uncle
Samuel is his record unprofitable one; yet the
language which Britain cotton and woollen in-
terests throw- at this country for not buying
more where it buys too much already, would
hardly be excusable if they caught the Com-
monwealth stealing clothes out of their
garden. It is miles worse than anything they
would dare employ to Washington.
Minister Mclntosh did a good day's work
for South Aus. when he introduced the
petty-contract system on Government con-
struction jobs. Departmental estimates
based on day labor have been cut by thou-
sands, and industrious pieceworkers have
added 50 p.c. to their earnings:—
Excavation work on Eyre’s Peninsula, which
cost 6s. 5(1. a cubic yard, day Labor, is now being
done for 3s. 6d.; refilling of trenches, which cost
is. sd. a yard, day labor, now costs lOd. Ihe men
have averaged £1 5s- Bjd. a day.
The Port Noarlunga main was estimated to cost
7s lOd a cubic yard for excavation and refilling;
actual expenditure under petty contract was 5a Id.
The men averaged £1 3s. a day.
In another case quoted a man in an Adel-
aide gang earned £3 ss. for one day’s work,
while a “comrade” was earning ss. Had
the job been governed by “Labor principles
worker and loafer would have drawn the
same —15s. or thereabouts.
Former Attorney-General Bill Denny,
addressing the Constitutional Club at Adel-
aide. said he “knew of no member of Par-
liament, either
W. J. Denny.
Federal or State,
•who subscribed to
(Communistic doc-
trines.” If Denny
came to Sydney be
would see Labor
members, Federal
and State, humbly
doing the bidding
of avowed Commu-
nists who are
directing a lawless-
strike. These wor-
thies, and all other
Australian Labor
members, have for
objective “the
socialisation of the
means of produc-
tion, distribution
and exchange.” If
that isn’t a Com-
munistic doctrine
then Karl Marx was a capitalist.
Recently Labor ex-Minister Snowden
uttered a bright particular roar about “the
Empire bleeding Britain,” in which he de-
nounced Australia in particular. If he had
shouted with the same incivility about “the
United States bleeding Britain” there might
have been a demand for the cession of Canada
by way of satisfaction. Possibly the per-
petual appearance of the Commonwealth bor-
rowing at John Bull’s back door explains
this attitude. Midas has small respect for a
poor relation whose pants have begun to go.
To answer, if it can, The Bulletin’s
plain question, “Who Killed Keith Ander-
son?” the Federal Government has
appointed a special board to inquire into the
whole circumstances surrounding the landing
of the Southern Cross and Kookaburra, and
the long perching of the former on the
sandbank from which it presently was able
to fly. The public’s misfortune is that now-
adays it gets the bulk of its news from two
or three big rival groups of papers, between
whom competition is so keen that there is
a grave danger of one struggling to beat the
other with synthetic news when the genuine
article is scarce. That is one suggestion,
wicked or righteous, which has been made
in this case; and a few writs for casual tens
of thousands have been issued by people who
feel themselves aggrieved by the suggestion.
As The Bulletin isn’t even remotely con-
cerned in these quarrels it can suggest to
the parties who have issued the writs that
they might help the cause of justice by with-
drawing them —temporarily at any rate, ihe
existence of those claims possibly may pre-
judice the special board’s inquiry.
“Sol M.” : The British tea duty dates back
to the time of Charles 11., but it was then
an excise duty of Sd. per gallon on the
sloppy substance after it was boiled, which
must have been hard to collect. In the time
of William 111. a customs tax of ss. per lb.
on the dry goods was imposed. It has
gone down steadily ever since, except for a
temporary lift to Is. during the war, till it
stood at 4d. Now it has passed away. The
tea impost was beloved by Freetraders be-
cause it wms a purely revenue affair, and only
raised the cost of living, while it embodied
no “damned nonsense” about creating or
encouraging a British industry. It also had
the further possible advantage that it fell
mostly on a product of the British Empire
after India and Ceylon became the great
suppliers.
THE CROWNING SORROW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ’Tis O to be in Parliament!” I heard a
youngster cry.
And all the tire of high intent was flashing
from his eye.
“ ’Tis not the salary you get, though that’s
a tidy bit,
’Tis not the honor’s made me set my heart
and soul on it.
But ’twould be great in hot debate to battle
for the Cause,
To boost along your native State and help
to frame its laws.”
“Maybe,” said one who two or three terms
has already had,
“But you can take it straight from me—
it ain’t all jam, my lad.”
“Ah, with the smooth I’d chance the rough,”
I heard the youth declare,
“Could I be fortunate enough to park my
barrow there.
I’d deem no drudgery too sore, I’d laugh at
pain and pang
To wear the shoes of Theodore or pack the
punch of Lang.
However tortuous the ways that politicians
wend,
Prizes are waiting and a blaze of triumph
at the end
To make indignities endured and hardships
seem as nil.”
“You wait,” the veteran adjured, “till you’ve
been through the mill.
“All-night debates are often things would
make a curate curse,
And hectic caucus gatherings occasionally
worse;
Constituents are mostly bores, and aggra-
vating, too;
Antagonists have always vials of vitriol for
you.
And there’s an even worse ordeal to all of
us applied,
A test to stab a heart of steel through a
rhinoceros hide.
No use in Parliament to sit unless the nerve
you’ve got
To bear this torture exquisite.” The tyro
asked him what.
“You wait,” the mentor answered him, “until
you take the floor,
With figures loaded to the brim and argu-
ments galore,
Imagining your eloquence and earnestness
and force
Will sway the progress of events and alter
history’s course.
Your burning words around you fling, your
knowledge sound display,
Careless though some be slumbering and
some in reveries stray,
And suddenly (O Cod, the sting!) you find
to your dismay
That not a soul is listening to anything you
say !
TJ.S.w.
IFORD.


SOCIETY
“and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Exdig”: Tributes by (and to) an enemy
over lone graves in France were by no means
infrequent, and helped to soften the bitter-
ness of war. Up near Wyschaete I came on
a British inscription on a cross: “To an
Heroic German.” Not so far away Ger-
mans had returned the compliment with a
cross dedicated to “A brave British stretcher-
bearer,” and they had reverently placed the
broken stretcher over the grave. But the
grave-touch that appealed to me most was
at Preston Dump, below Messines. There
two men, a Tommy and a Fritz, had been
buried side by side, but the German’s cross
had been knocked over. It was the rough-
IN GRANDMA’S DAY.
FLAPPER : “But I bet you, Granny, you set your caps at
the boys when you were my age just as much
as we do.”
GRANNY: “Maybe our caps—but not our kneecaps.”
est diamond in our crowd who insisted on
putting it up again. As an afterthought, he
inclined the crosses towards one another.
“The war’s over as far as they're concerned,”
he said.
* * * *
“Meteren”: A rest camp we took over
behind the lines near Hazebrouk was in such
a filthy condition that G.S. waggons were
hooked in to cart the rubbish to the camp
incinerator. Even the officers’ mess must
have been iu a parlous state, judging from
the way the heads, in shirt sleeves, entered
into the spirit of spring cleaning, w'hilst
their orderlies were nosing out rations.
Mick, scraping the duckboards in front of
the hut. took a breather just in time to see
the C.O. hoisting a tin of rubbish out of
the mess into one of the waggons. “Come
and look!” he yelled joyously through the
window. “The old man’s keepin’ is ’and
in so’s he can take up his run again when
he gets : ome.”
* * * *
“Centurion”: Curious facts which the
Censor concealed in war and post-war years
still crop up occasionally. An appeal for
compensation for Irish troops who mutinied
; in India iu 1920 has just been
made in the Irish Free State Par-
liament, the Government bluntly re-
fusing to consider it. The regiment
was the famous Connaught Rangers,
now off the Army list, which once
held a record of service hardly
paralleled in the annals of the Brit-
ish Army. Of 400 mutineers at
Jullundur in the Punjaub, 09 were
court-marshalled, one was shot, and
most of the rest sentenced to vari-
ous terms of imprisonment. Tin;
story of the mutiny, which was
instigated from Ireland, rends like
one of Kipling’s earlier short
stories.
* * *
“A.M.R.” (New Hebrides): At
the end of last year you published
a paragraph about a village beyond
the .lordan being constantly
bombed because of a treacherous
attack on a Maoriland regiment, l
think the place meant was Ain-es-
sir, a fairly large village at tie 1
head of the Wadi Sir. After the
Amman raid we started to retire
through u narrow rocky defile, up
which the M.L. Brigade had come.
The retirement began on March 31,
1918, and all day and xiiglit a long
line of tired camels, infantry and
horses, in single file, stumbled and
slipped down this mountain track,
which falls 4000 feet in eight miles.
The Maoriland Mounted Rifle
Brigade formed the rearguard, and
their rear regiment was the Wel-
lington Mounted Rifles. The Turks
attacked, more than once, but were
held off by the W.M.R. until every-
one else was through Ain-es-sir.
where the villagers had always
posed as our good friends. As out-
last squadron rode through the vil-
lage the treacherous Circassians
opened fire at very close range from
houses, caves and an adjacent mill.
The last was promptly rushed, but
our casualties already numbered 18,
including the O.C. Major Sommer-
ville, a South African veteran. Our
spies reported later that the murderous Cir-
cassians had cut the throats of all the
wounded men they came upon. Hence the
subsequent bombing of the village. Needless
to say, when we entered Ain-es-sir during
the last round-up of September the place
was absolutely deserted.
* * * *
‘‘Hannans”: The inchoate State that is
presently to be carved out of the top half
of N. S. Wales is already discussing a name
for itself —“Georgia,” Kiugsland” and
Kookaburra” being among the labels sug-
gested. Which recalls that, wdien the more
southerly goldfields of W.A. embarked on
their "Separation-for-Federation” gesture at
the end of last century, the title they pro-
posed to wear w 7 as about the only point on
which there was complete unanimity. Some-
body, in an inspired monient, suggested
“Auralia,” and the idea was taken up with
enthusiasm, one fervent Separatist being so
intrigued with the name that he immediately
impressed it on his infant daughter at the
baptismal font, thus sealing lipr to the cause,
as it were. But just at this stage Bigjohn
Forrest caved in and consented to send the
Federation Bill to the people, so that the
agitation collapsed, and nothing remained of
EXPLAINED.
RABBI: “Ah, Mr. Diggovitch, the poor are always with us.”
COHEN (sotto voce to Solomon): “Dot’s vy dey are poor, Solly — eh?”
Auralia except a tiny girl of that name. It
is interesting to speculate whether she is
still known thereby.
* * ’ * !j!
“Bo.”: Talking about kids’ names, I once
knew a man who boasted that he had limited
his offspring to three letters apiece. The
boys were Sam, Tom, Joe, Ray and Bill—or,
rather, Bil —the final letter having been pur-
posely elided. I was with the father when
he registered Ray. The nice young man
in the office said “That will be Raymond,
won’t it?” “Who’s namin’ this kid, you or
me?” demanded the father wrathfully. So
the clerk obligingly made it “Ray,” remark-
ing that the bloke who paid the fee could
have it his way so far as he was concerned.
The girls’ names were Sal. Eva and Lil.
* =!= *
“Kerys”: Some years ago a man who was
visiting his native town in Maoriland, after
long years of absence, casually pointed out
a house that in his youth was reputed to be
haunted. Then he went his way unsuspect-
ing of the germ he had loosed. ' Laying the
ghost became the chief pastime of
the youth of the village, and the
tenants hurriedly quitted their
allegedly spook-infested quarters.
Every night a band of youths
would surround the house and hurl
stones at it under cover of the dark-
ness. Mysterious lights and agon-
ised cries were reported, and so
sinister a reputation fastened on
the building that the police had
more than once to disperse the
crowd to prevent them from wreck-
ing the place outright. Just about
this time the indirect author of the
mischief again passed by, and on
being shown the battered result of
his ghost-story remarked that there
must have been a mistake; the
next-door house was the one he
meant. This second house had re-
cently been bought and renovated
by a wealthy butcher, who declined
to tolerate the ghost suggestion,
and announced in the local paper that he
would not be responsible for the action
of his bulldog should that animal be disturbed
by seekers after the supernatural. The ghost
scare died abruptly, and an unhappy land-
lord set about repairing his damaged
property.
* * * *
“Gelt”: An interesting sidelight on the
troubles that sometimes spring from the
best-intentioned missionary activities may be
found in the New Guinea Gazette
(9/3/’2D), which sets forth that Adminis-
trator Wisdom, in consequence of “com-
plaints that the activities of missionaries in
the district of Kieta, in the Territory of New
Guinea, have caused unrest amongst the
natives,” has decided to appoint a judicial
commissioner to investigate “the policies and
activities of the missions in the district in
so far as they affect the maintenance of
peace and good order.” The trouble in this
instance is said to have been caused by the
importation of some energetic colored evan-
gelists from the British Solomons, who are
followers of John Wesley, and whose reli-
gious fervor is resented by the natives who
are converts of other churches. It seems a
pity that the Mandated Territory has not
been divided off into separate areas for the
different missionary societies. There are thou-
sands of square miles untouched by the propa-
gators of the gospel, which makes overlap-
ping quite unnecessary.
* * * *
“Gad”: The Spanish monks Dom Serra
and Dom Salvado had a. more irksome time
than is suggested in founding the settle-
ment of New Norcia (B. 24/4/’29). The
pair, with a novice from a French monastery,
came out with Bishop Brady in 184(1. and
the monks remained with Bishop Brady in
Perth until 1848. They then set out on
foot for their promised land, and their first
settlement was at the end of a seven-day
march to the north-east, where their baggage-
carriers deserted them. The novice soon
perished as a result of the hardships of life
in the wilds, but the other two carried on
for some months —in fact, until the W.A.
Government informed them that they would
not be allowed to settle there. They then
obtained 40 acres of ground at Victoria
Plains, where New Norcia was established.
Incidentally, the spelling of the name of the
abbey be Nurcia; it was called after
the little town in Italy where St. Benedict
himself was born.
"Jackeroo”: I saw Blucy and Stumpy,
two thirsty and impecunious swagmen,
work a dodge that till then I thought
was merely a tale. They were stand-
ing in front of the bush pub gloomily
discussing the possibility of getting two
drinks for sixpence—their sole asset—when
they spotted Jim Roden, a drovers’ cook,
heading for the pub. Bluey did some hard
and rapid thinking. “Leave this to me,”
he enjoined on his mate, and the pair
entered the bar and stood at one
end. Almost immediately Roden came in.
“Hello, Jim!” said Bluey, “we’ve just had
ours, but you have a drink all the same,” and
he passed over the precious sixpence to the
grinning barman. Roden obliged, and natu-
rally shouted for the pair in his turn. “Well,
it worked all right,” said Bluey later. “Yes,
but what a flamin’ risk yer took!” was
Stumpy’s comment.
"Pawang” : Fades, the famous Melbourne
snake-catcher, recently returned from
Bananaland with his biggest haul of wrig-
ling murder. It comprises over 1000 copper-
heads, death-adders and tiger-snakes—the
three most lethal varieties in Australia and
therefore most in demand at the Walter and
Eliza Hall Institute, where research work
is being undertaken to produce an anti-snake-
bite serum. It has already been established
that it is no use injecting tiger-snake serum
into a person bitten by a copperhead, so the
first job of the administering doctor will be
to discover the identity of the guilty worm
before inoculating his patient. The horses
at the Commonwealth Serum Laboratory at
Royal Park, over which the anti-vivisections
ists wax so sentimental, will assist in the
good work of preparing the. doses. A vac-
cine prepared' from the snake venom having
been injected into their veins, their blood
will automatically manufacture the anti-
toxin, which will be drawn off and graded.
*
“X.S.”: In some respects the Law is a
strange animal. According to a recent
ruling in Melbourne a mother can pledge
her husband’s credit in order to get the food
that will save their children from starva-
tion, but she has no right to do so for a
surgical operation the need for which may
be even more imperative. In this case the
child was a girl of 17 with whom the father
had quarrelled. Told that an operation was
essential if the girl’s life was to be saved,
the distracted mother consented. The opera-
tion was a success, but the father repudiated
the bill because he had not given his sanc-
tion. It seems a queer conception of
parental responsibility, but on appeal the
Court upheld his view.
BALLAD OF THE BAD AGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The chaotic condition of modern morals has
been brought about by middle-aged, who are
trying to keep young. Those who are old enough to
be onlookers, and youth itself, look on almost incredu-
lously.”—Melbourne Sun correspondent.
I sing no more the sins of youth.
The rash of heart and the hot of blood ;
No more with condescending ruth
I use my rake upon ancient mud.
Sixteen, it seems, but coldly dreams
And sixty joins in a moral drive ;
Alike they follow righteous gleams—
But oh, the follies of forty-five!
You flapper bold with your shingled hair,
You callow sheik with your shaven neck,
Out on you for a deceiving pair
Who bring my scandalous dreams to wreck !
Where words are wild and ways uto mild,
How may a moralist hope to thrive?
Too long by you have I been beguiled—
But oh, the follies of forty-five!
You wrinkled beau with your reckless air,
You wasted belle with your wicked eye,
’Tis dull you are and not debonair,
Since now it’s plain that your looks may
lie.
That hint of would-if-but-you-could
Too long illusion kept alive,
And now I know you’re merely good—
But oh, the follies of forty-five!
I sing no more the sins of youth,
The indiscretions of doting age;
The middle way is the way in truth
For frolicsome bard and frivolous page.
If age be cold, and youth withhold
Its ardor, let this thought survive:
I’m not very young and not too old —
Sing ho, the follies of forty-five!
VICTOBIA.
HASEN.


“C.Q.”: The authorities may have been
sincere when they said that no provision for
removing the bones of the 27 murderers at
the Melbourne Gaol had been made because
it was supposed that the quicklime they
were buried in would have disposed of them.
If so, it is astonishing that they did not
know that the fallacy has long since been
exploded. In fact, the lime probably acts
as a preservative. I examined Ned Kellys
skull, and it showed few signs even of the
ordinary assaults of time —yet it had been
buried for half a century.
!l! * * *
“Kesem”: Here’s a novel-plot from real
life. Owing to the drought the interest on
the farm mortgage could not be met, and
though the man, his wife and family had put
every ounce of money and grit that they
possessed into the land, the mortgagee de-
manded his pound of flesh. Then the un-
expected happened. The Queensland family
won the second prize in a State lottery. After
many improvements had been made to the
farm, and all was in good trim, the husband
took a trip to England and brought back his
wife’s sister. Now the wife takes in wash-
ing in a neighboring township, and the sister
is mistress of the farm.
sj* * * *
“1.0. U.” : Our five-year-old came in waving
a letter and bubbling over with excitement.
“We got one and next door got nothing,” she
announced gleefully. Oh, for the joys of
infancy ! It was an income-tax assessment.
* * * *
“P.R.”: During the recent deluge in Laun-
ceston it became necessary for the whole
of one district to be evacuated. Most of
the residents of the submerged area didn’t
require much urging, but one old dame gave
her rescuers considerable trouble. She made
several frantic endeavors to return to _ her
flooded home, and in the end had to be liter-
ally carried away. When the turmoil had
died down she explained that she had left
a cat and four kittens in the doomed house!
The building was by then completely under
water, so the whole 45 lives were lost.
* * * *
“Veronal”: The Illawarra S. N. Co. is
about to abandon its passenger service to
Bermagui and ports further south owing to
motor competition. Many of the historic
co.’s steamers have found a grave on the
rock-bound South Coast, includ ; the
SECOND THOUGHTS.
“I thought Billy’s girl-jriend was fair. Why, she’s a decided blonde.”
“Oh, yes. But she only decided it a few weeks ago.”
Mimosa, John Penn, Monaro, Bega, Kam-
eruka and Merimbula. In no instance was
there serious loss of life, but the graves of
an elderly couple named Twill are still dis-
cernible near Bunga Head, between Berma-
gui and Tathra, to recall the wreck of the
Mimosa about 1850. The story goes that when
the boats were being launched this couple
returned to their cabin for money and other
valuables, and were caught by the inrushing
sea. A diver subsequently found the body
of the man bolt upright, with the head
jambed against the ceiling of the cabin,
The hospitable Polacks, then owners of
Bunga run, brought the shipwrecked passen-
gers back to civilisation in bullock-drays.
* * *
“Homo Sapiens”: The Australian, like the
Cockney, Ims a flair for the topical. The
Double Bay (Sydney) tram in which I was
travelling the* other evening was boarded at
King’s Cross by a man excellently made up
as an ape. After going through the accepted
simian ritual of scratching himself, he
started to distribute dodgers advertising a
jungle film. On each side of his monkey
mask dangled a long shaggy ear, like that of
an Irish water-spaniel. These caught the
eye of the wharf-laborer who sat next me.
“Who are y’,” he inquired—“ Judge Lukin.
“You’ve crashed,” said the ape tersely, pass-
ing on to the next compartment; “I’m Jock
Garden.”
* * * *
“Platypus” : Though not a professional, I
frequently disguise myself as an Egyptian
and hand out comfort and advice to cash
customers at fairs and charitable functions.
The most earnest seekers after occult infor-
mation are troubled lovers. I remember one
brooding Romeo, resident of a country town
I was visiting, who begged me to peer into
the future for him. He had caught a flash
stranger kissing ms girl at the hotel where
she worked, and he besought me to use my
mysterious powers to ascertain if he “would
get a hiding if he hopped into the blighter.”
As I make a point of telling people what
they manifestly yearn to be told, I had no
compunction in assuring him that he
wouldn’t. But I didn't feel comfortable
until I had left that township, and I some-
times wonder whether he remembers me
gratefully or otherwise.
“Manapouri”: Don’t know how the M.M.
was awarded in other battalions (B.
17/4/’29), but after we came out of the
Polygon Wood stunt we were assembled on
parade and our O.C. put it something like
this: “Men, there are four Military Medals
coming to this company, and I don’t think
that one man earned the decoration more than
another. I’ve thought of a way out of the
difficulty, and that is for one n.c.o. in each
platoon to receive a medal and wear it for
that platoon.” Those n.c.o.’s had none too
good a time of it for the next few weeks;
morning, noon and night they were always
being bailed up by men who wanted Jo have
a look at their bit of the medal.
* * * *
“Half-moon”: In a prosperous Queensland
farming community, mainly composed of
people of German extraction, I noted a
remarkable number of children with impedi-
ments in their speech. Some youngsters of
10 to 12 years of age spoke as imperfectly
as average four-year-olds. The affliction
puzzled me till a medical friend summed it
up in one word —in-breeding. The inhabi-
tants, it seemed, seldom went outside their
encircling hills for mating purposes, and
almost all were nearly related.
* * * *
“Trallwm”: It is said of miners’ frac-
teur that you never know when it’s
loaded, but it is equally true that you
never know if it will go off. Once wheu
packing stores on the old Stirling (Vic.)
field I had to load my riding-hack, a half-
sheltie, only donkey-size. He carried, in addi-
tion to other truck, a case of blasting-gela-
tine laid in the pack-saddle forks and held in
by the surcingle. The pony was awkward, but
followed the other horses till we reached a
spot where a fallen tree hung slantingly
over the 12-inch pad. The wise old pack-
leader started to pick, cat-like, a detour track
round the butt of the tree, and the next three
horses followed him. But the sheltie made
to pass under the tree. I raced down the
slope to head linn off, whereupon he bolted,
He was small enough to pass under tne
trunk, but the end of the gelatine-case hit
it full bat. I tried to think of a prayer as
the case of fracteur tore from the pacK-
saddle, hurtled to the ground at my horse s
feet, burst like a carton and scattered packets
of gelatine for yards round. However, not
a stick exploded—or this par. would never
have been written Yet careless handling ot
a single plug has blown many a man into the
next world. _
** * .
“X.D.”: The other morning a person
wearing the uniform of the L.A.iN. accom-
panied by a pillion passenger similarly
accoutred, rode slowly past the Brunswick
(Melb.) police station on a niotm j .
which was recognised as a stolen one. A
constable gave chase on his motor-bike, but
lost his quarry in the traffic. He had hardly
returned and made his report when the object
of his chase, manned by the same crew, went
past again. There was a second abortive
pursuit, this time in a commandeered auto-
mobile, and once more the navy vanished
in the traffic. The third time the sportive
pair -went past the police piled themselves
into a baby car, but the result was no dif-
ferent. The fourth time there were no cars
WHEN WATER-POWER IS GOOD.
PIERROT: "It’s better to laugh than to cry."
RIERRETTE: “Except when you’re trying to manage a husband .”
or bicycles available, and it was a hot and
flustered posse of constables that pounded
along the pavement in the wake of a leis-
urely motor-bike, whose occupants blew
satirical kisses to them. The machine con-
tinued to be reported as having been seen at
various points in the suburb until the even-
ing, wdien the motor-patrol caught it in a
dead-end.
* * * *
“Half-moon”: Steamers of half a century
back were built of tough material. I was
on board a Thursday Island pearling-lugger
recently when a Japanese diver descended
near Quetta Rock (Torres Strait). On his
return he reported that portion of the skele-
ton of the ill-fated Quetta was still visible,
although it is nearly 40 years since, tom
from stem to stern by the uncharted Pin-
nacle rock, she sank in four minutes. _ I
remember being told by a European diver
who inspected the sunken vessel immediately
after the disaster, that the engine-room tele-
graph on the bridge showed “Full speed
ahead.” She went under before the navi-
gators realised what had happened.
* * * *
“Oxmead” : Slang is often described as lan-
guage in the making, but there are words
that seem never to get past the colloquial
stage. Last week Justice Piddington mildly
reproved a woman witness before the Indus-
trial Court for saying that something cost
“two bob.” Yet “bob” has surely served such
a long apprenticeship as a colloquialism that
it needn’t be jibbed at, except, possibly, by
such a literary precisian as Judge Curlewis.
It must be a century since Ingoldsby’s victim
of duplicity at Margate “changed a shilling
which in town the people call a bob” —and
they haven’t called it much else since. Is
“bob” never to get past the Censor, even in
courts created specially to deal with “the
people’s” expenditure and the basic wage?
“Salainbo” : Misfortune has dogged Maori-
land's new motor-ship, the Maui Pomare, ever
since she was launched. On her maiden voy-
age from England, when only a few miles
down the Solent, leaks upset the ballast
tanks, and the vessel had to put back. There
has been a long series of mishaps since, the
latest being an outbreak of ’flu which has
put half the crew hors de combat. The name,
Maui Pomare, is an ancestral one held in
special reverence by the Maoris, who see in
the ship’s trouble the punishment for a
breach of tapu. But to remove the name
from the ship and substitute another would
be a concession to superstition which official-
dom can hardly be expected to countenance.
* * * *
“Senex”: A recent paragraph about
Albany (TV.A.) being an older settlement
than Perth or Fremantle impels me to ask
when and why it underwent its change of
name. The settlement founded by Major
Lockyer on King George’s Sound in 1826
■was Fredericktown, and if the name was
changed when it was handed over to Gover-
nor Stirling in 1831, there is no record of
it in any history of W.A. that I ever read.
One wonders if the name was changed
through any feeling against the convict taint.
Fredericktown, of course, was primarily a
military station; the original intention was
to use it for prisoners who. after serving
their original sentences, had been re-con-
victed of less serious crimes.
* * * *
“Ex-Englishman”: I happened to hear
lately a State Governor and an up-country
mayor making hajr the alphabet on the
same platform. The Mayor dropped every
“h” that came at the beginning of a worn,
the Governor dropped with equal regu a _ y
every “g” that came at the end of one. -L
’ead of the ’ouse” made a brisk contest with
“cornin’ and goin.” The one was (of course)
mark of no education and a lack of breeu
ing; the other of ample education and u
highest breeding. How do you account for
it?
“Theseus”: Will Shakspeare must have
smiled down in the Elysian Fields last week
when the Sydney Shakspeare Society pro-
tested that the noise made by the city under-
ground railway gang interfered with the
celebration of his birthday, the Shakspeare
memorial statue being adjacent to one of
the main shafts of the tunnel under Palace
Garden. The idea of a £lO, 000,000-railway
job being held up while a handful of Shaks-
pearean devotees made speeches and recited
choice bits of the bard to one another was
worthy of Touchstone or Launeelot Gobbo.
Yet the railway gang actually did stop one
of its noise-makers, a bumper drill.
* * * *
“S.T.S.” : Recent pars, about handwriting
being affected by other things than liquor
recall a middle-aged lady who sat in my office
for quite a while before she could steady
her hand sufficiently to put pen to paper.
She explained with apologies that she felt
“flustered —never been in a lawyer’s office
before.” Yet all she had to do was to sign
a receipt for the very comfortable legacy
that she had come to collect. Yet that wasn’t
as remarkable as a case a N.S.W. friend, m
the law encountered. He was appearing
before a land board at Menindie, and among
the applicants were a couple of brothers who
had been brought up in the wild “mallee and
porcupine” country (much of it unfenced l
back from the Lower Darling. These brothers
were hunters, and hadn’t slept under a roof
since they were youngsters. When they had
to go into the court-room they got stage-
fright ; and on one being called to come up
and give evidence they both streaked for the
door. A sympathetic member of the board
saw what was happening, went out, got them
yarning, and gradually led them back into
the room. But he knew’ them well enough
to get off the Bench and sit down alongside
them when it came to signing the documents.
Otherwise they would certainly have bolted
again. * * *
“Hamer”: The progress of the imposing
North Shore Bridge should re-awaken in-
terest in the work of Australia’s first bridge-
builder, David Lennox, whom Governor Mac-
quarie discovered and commissioned. Three
of the monuments to David’s skill and thor-
oughness are Lennox Bridge at Parramatta-,
the Lapstone Bridge, and the Lansdowne
Bridge on the Liverpool-road, all over
00 years old. and a standing credit
to the builder. The Lansdowne affair,
made solidly of stone brought from the
George's River, cost the Government of the
day £lOB3, apart from Lennox’s salary of
£l2O p.a., later raised to £250. The con-
victs who provided the labor owed a good
deal to their boss; he insisted that their
chains should be removed during working
hours and he fought hard for tickets-of-leave
for the men who bucked in industriously.
Among early-day craftsmen (and employers)
David Lennox deserves an honorable place.
* * * *
“Mango”: At least two European capitals
have changed names since the war; Buda-
pest is apparently to be the third. In this
case the trouble is postal: the similarity
between “Budapest” and “Bucharest” causes
so much confusion that it is - proposed to
alter the former to “Pest-Buda,” or plain
“Buda.” My sympathies are entirely with
the Hungarians; when I lived in Gulargam-
bone my mail was perpetually going to
Girila-mbone.
COPS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Singularly enough, the policeman’s name was
Irish, too.” —Sydney Evening News.
As oft as not, as all must know,
Are coppers named Antonio,
Economos or Rodriguez,
And yet, I tell you truly,
I’ve met that human rarity
A Constable McGarrity.
I’ve also known them called O Dea,
O’Sullivan and Dooley.
Though Isaacs be the usual thing,
Or Brown or Jones or Ah Lee Sing,
Slapoffski, Richter or Crapaud
Or Cameron or Logan,
I've known a few named Shauglinessy,
Q-uinn, Connelly and Hennessy;
And he who walks the beat below
Is either Bourke or Hogan.
N.S.W.
O’HAMER.


THE HOPELESS DAWN
lohe Rude Awakening of the Premier of Queensland after 14 gears of Labor Excesses.
\
f
c
t>
vV
a
r
< W)
: r i > 2
V\ "3S
3k
K
r
t
'•X'.
>4# fc/c
N :»rA
id
j.-sj*
V
'
>• - '
\,,,,
2%
«P
a*
mSE^^SO*
<ej o» d j
>
sssss
"a
CO®
OAA/J
*s
N»i
3
aG
%-k
C
<s^
V-f,-
CP*,'
*K
: <?
or
8*
:>
4V.V*
-o
»
>*=>
>
<S2^
c
,c.
c
<3£-z
A.XB++E*?
MR. McCORMACK: “GEE! WE MUST HAVE HAD SOME PARTY!!"
Queenslanders, RESTORE CONFIDENCE
Vote for
The Country-National Candidates
ON SATURDAY, MAY 11.
Luthorised by P. T. G. SHAW, Terrica House, Brisbane.


4\
0
ẁ
Shirt—To
Measure
A soft Fabric —but
tough wearing.
Worn, tested and
approved by the
“Man out back.”
It’s fadeless —washing only improves
our word for it —it’s good—for Work
Wear when in town.
Shades of Blue and Officers’ Khaki.
Patterns and Measurement Forms.
it. Take
or Night
Send for
Collar and
Pocket Shirt
(one pocket)
14/6
Military style
(as illustrated)
2 pockets and
Flaps
15 6
MADE TO YOUR MEASURE.
ROTHWELLS OUTFITTING
\_LIMITED^
EDWARD STREET ~ B f? I S B AM £
Follow the
Chart
TEXACO keeps your engine clean.
BUY FROM THE TEXACO VISIBLE OIL
SERVER BOTTLE, AND ENSURE:
Freedom from carbon
Clean Valves and Spark Plugs
Protection against heat and wear
Economy in consumption
High compression and more
power
TEXACO
CLEAN-CLEAR-GOLDEN
MOTOR OIL
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Ca -te.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonweal'll.
Cable and Telegraphic Addiesn:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
PERSONAL
ITEMS
GLOBE
MEAT EXTRACT
GLOBE BRAMD
Some May birthdays:—
C. H. Book (Vic. Crown Prosecutor), 34, on Ist;
Senator Charlie Cox, 66, and Brig.-Gen. G. M. Mac-
arthur-Onslow, 54, on 2nd ; Justice Rich (High Court),
66, and Prof. Laby (Melb.), 49, on 3rd; Federal
Minister Abbott, 43, Dave Gordon, M.L.C. (S. Aus.),
64, and Prof. Mackellar Stewart (Adel.), 51, on
Captain L. J. BRAIN, Qantas pilot, who
discovered the Kookaburra, and beside
it the dead body of Keith Anderson.
4th; N.S.W. Premier Bavin, 55, on sth; Yic. ex-
Chief Sec. Prendergast, 75, on 6th; Prof. Perkins
(S. Aus. Director of Agriculture), 58, on 11th;
Canon E. S. Hughes, 69, on 12th; Bishop James
(St. Arnaud), 52, on 13th; Chief Justice Blair
(Q.), 58, on 16th; Bishop Langley (late of Bendigo),
93, and C. A. Munt (Under-Sec. for Works, W.A.),
57, on 17th; Dame Nellie Melba, on 19th; Federal
Minister Gibson, 60, on 20th; ex-Justice Alex.
Gordon. (N.S.W-), 71, on 22nd; Justice Angas Par-
sons (S. Aus.), 57, on 23rd; Gov. Goodwin (Q.),
58, and Ivor MacGillivray (formerly M.P. for Port
Adelaide), 89, on 24th; Archgaiters Riley (Perth),
75, on 26th; knight Arthur Cocks (N.S.W.), 67,
knight Fred. Waley (N.S.W.), 69, Colonel J. W.
Castine (S. Aus.), 83, and ex-S. Aus. Senator
Charleston, 81, on 27th; ex-N.S.W. Chief Justice
Cullen, 74, Judge Backhouse, 78, and Fred Robert-
son (Adel. Advertiser), 71, on 28th; Prof. Berry
(Melb.), 62, on 30th; Queensland Senator Foil, 39,
on 31st.
Bruce has named Lachlan Chisholm Wil-
son chairman of the board of inquiry respect-
ing the Southern Cross and the Kookaburra,
and thousands of old Light Horse
pals will applaud the appointment. A Bris-
bane solicitor, Wilson left Enoggera in 3914
as major of the sth Light Horse, and took
over command of the regiment on Gallipoli
after Colonel Harris had been shot through
the throat. It was the Fifth that saved
the Scottish post at Dueidar after one of
the most daring desert gallops of the war;
the Fifth again that charged the Turkish
guns with fixed bayonets in the palm-clad
oasis of Ivatia. Just before the fall of
Beersheba, the regiment lost the colonel
whom it had idolised —he was made com-
mander of the Third Brigade, in which posi-
tion he distinguished himself in the heavy
Palestine fighting.
Herbert Brookes, who is to succeed Hugh
Denison as Commissioner to the U.S.A., will
go to America under pleasanter auspices than
his father-in-law, Alfred Deakin, did in 1915.
The great Alfred was subjected to petty per-
secution by a Minister who objected to his
appointment as Australian representative at
the ’Frisco Exhibition and chose to forget his
services to the nation and his failing health.
Brookes is a brother and partner of the finest
lawn-tennis player of the pre-war decade.
He did good work on the Tariff Board, and
has been a benevolent patron of Australian
painters and musicians.
Queensland’s Country and Progressive
Nationalists, as they call themselves now-
adays, have been going to snatch the Maree
seat from Speaker Bill Bertram for ever
so long. Three years ago George Tedman
got within 72 votes of William in a poll
of (SSG2, and he fully expects to go one
better this time. Even the Labor people
allow that things look bad for Bill. The
Speaker, a Scot by birth, came to Australia
when he was very young. He was amateur
middleweight champion of his State for two
years, 3899 and 1900, and is still capable!
of knocking out any recalcitrant member
should the sergeant-at-arms be overpowered,
though he has turned 54.
James Edmond, editor of The Bulletin
from 1902 to 1915 and still one of its bril-
liant contributors, had a seventieth birthday
last week.
The most elevated work of art in Mel-
bourne is being executed by O. H. Dutton,
a local craftsman. He is chiselling the rug-
ged features of Bishop Moorhouse on the
Moorhouse tower of St. Paul’s Cathedral,
120 feet from the Flinders-street pavement.
Passed on, at 69, Alick J. Murray, of S.
Aus., one of the Commonwealth’s best-known
flockmasters. He inherited Mount Crawford,
a station famous for merino sheep—his
father founded the stud —its Jersey herd
and its polo players. Alick Murray was a
dashing player himself before he grew too
old for the game; and a legion of friends
knew him as on e of the most generous and
genial of men.
George A. Gibbs, for 37 years secretary
to the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of
Works, is dead at 67. Son of an old Bendi-
gonian who for a time was a partner of
Barnet Lazai-us in the Lazarus mine, he was
trained on the Bendigo Advertiser, the
school for so many good journalists, and owed
much of his early success in the Vic. rail-
ways to his knowledge of Pitman’s short-
hand. Gibbs was secretary to Thomas Bent
when Bent was Minister of Railways; it was
through Bent, who introduced him to E. G.
Fitzgibbon, chairman of the Board of Works,
that he got the position in which he spent
the greater part of a useful life.
The Port George mission station, which
has figured so much in the story of the
Southern Cross, has the Rev. J. R. B. Love
for superintendent. Before he went to North
Westralia, Love was in charge of the Mapoon
mission, Cape York Peninsula, and the pro-
spectors and sandalwood-getters of that
region swore by him. Dave Evans, one of
the hardest cases on the Peninsula, gave the
padre a hand to build a shed and stqckyard
and even attended the mission services. Love
fought with the Light Horse in Palestine,
gained his “pip” in action and came back
with the D.C.M. and M.M. And decora-
tions had to be well won in the Holy Land.
Not many of the six million-odd people in
Australia haven’t been welcomed to some vil-
lage or other and informed in advance that it
was “a good Rexona town” ; and most of the
millions have thanked the man who put up
the sign which told them at least the name
of the place they were passing through. The
man who thought up the brilliant advertis-
ing scheme has just sold out his rights to
all the signboards and the products they
advertise. He is S. F. Sheffer, who was an
American 30 years ago but has since grown
into a good Australian. The Rexona pro-
ducts have been sold to a co. in which both
Australia and England are interested —for
something not far short of £200,000 in cash
—and the man who put them on the map is
setting to work to put others there just as
definitely.
Signing off at 65, owing to the inexorable
retiring-age regulation, is inspector George
Dart, of the Lithgow district, the youngest
“old mau” of the N.S.W. education service.
He doesn’t look a day over 50, and says he
feels 40. He was a pupil teacher at 14. and
was in charge of a school at Temora before
he turned 21.
There is at least one man in Australia
who has given his name to a motor-car.
Years ago, after learning liis job at the O'reat
Western loco, works and elsewhere. A. J.
Dawson became works manager of the great
Hotchkiss factory at Coventry, and a little
later (1918) designed and put on the market
the 11.9 Dawson. Five years ago he found
the call of the Australian sun too strong and
WILLIAM JAMES, the Digger pianist,
who accompanies Evelyn Scotney.
came this way; but the Triumph car is still
being made at iiis old works from his design.
In these parts he is mainly interested in the
Tungstone batteries, another British produc-
tion. Mr. Dawson’s grandfather was asso-
ciated with George Stephenson in building
and working the first locomotive, and the
family has been in the engineering business
ever since.
The late Lord Revelstoke, though a
director of the Bank of England and one
who had been prominent in public life for
over 30 years, was unknown to popular fame
until last year. Then some unnamed per-
son deposited with him, as head of Baring
Bros., cash and securities worth £500,000.
The directions were that the money was to
be allowed to accumulate at compound
interest and then applied to the reduction
of the National Debt. He, the Prime Min-
ister and the Chancellor of the Exchequer
were the only people at the time who know
the donors’ name and the conditions on
which the trust is to be administered.
The unusual spectacle of a Vic. Minister
appearing as a witness in the Supreme
Court, to be examined by another Minister
as counsel, occurred in Melbourne last week.
Chief Sec. Argyle, who is an X-ray
specialist, was the witness, and Menzies, K.C.
and hon. Minister, the counsel. The case
was one in which a former Kyneton tailor
sued a doctor for alleged unskilful treatment.
Dr. Argyle was born in Kyneton, and so was
counsel for the claimant, Harry Minogue,
whose father, the late Michael Minogue,
Under Treasurer, was another Kyneton
native.
John Bonython, son of Adelaide’s Lord
Mayor and grandson of the Advertiser’s
G.0.M., has been admitted to the S.A. Bar
after a Cambridge and Gray’s Inn training.
The family has been closely allied with the
Law. Langdon Bonython’s eldest daughter
is the wife of Judge Parsons, and the new 7
practitioner’s grandfather on the other side
was John Bray. K.G., a long-ago Premier.
Luxton, of Melbourne, is the first Lord
Mayor to walk as a returned soldier in an
Anzac Day march. He served with the Aus-
tralian Field Artillery till 1916, when he
transferred to the Royal Air Force. In that
service he was shot down. One of the wit-
nesses to the incident is a lower lip slightly
enlarged by a bullet wound.
Baron Somers having departed on a six-
months’ visit to Britain, Chief Justice Irvine
is Acting-Governor again. Somers will draw
half-pay w T hile away; the other half will go
to Irvine in addition to his salary as C.J.
The longest single period the man from
Newry has had as Cocked Hat since he was
sworn in as L.-G. 11 years ago was 17
months. He was in command when Edward
P. was in Victoria in 1920.
Poor little Eugene de Hautpick has had
a tragic finish in Adelaide. He came to Aus-
tralia from London with introductions from
the Mining Journal and got a job to drill
in Tasmania for the Mersey Valley Oil Co.,
iii which W. M. Hughes held 5000 shares.
De Hautpiek struck a boss of diabase, and
was dismissed. Then he drilled three shallow
holes for the Coorong Oil Co. of Adelaide,
and got schist every time, after which he
returned to London. Last year he came back
with an appliance to tell metals and min-
erals by their smell —that is, from the odor
of their emanations. He published two books
on his theory of geophysics. They failed,
aud the poor devil destroyed himself with a
“safety”-razor blade.
Although trafficking in military decora-
tions is illegal, there is a man in Melbourne
who has purchased hundreds. He is Alex.
Isaacson, a Tivoli director and one of the
leading authorities on numismatics. The
liard-up Digger who wants to raise a fiver
on his D.C.M. or M.M. has only to go to
Isaacson, who hands him in addition to the
money a guarantee that the emblem can be
redeemed at any time by repayment of the
original price. Isaacson, of course, holds a
warrant from the Government, and none of
the medals remain in his possession—they
go straight to the National Gallery. For
years he has been lending medals to
Diggers who have lost or mislaid their own
so that they can sport them on their breasts
on Anzac Day, and no borrower has ever
failed to return the thing.
Commander E. S. Mutton, recently re-
tired from the command of the Brisbane
Naval District, is an Englishman who got
his early training on the old Britannia. He
transferred to the merchant service and first
saw Australia as a member of the crew of
a Black Ball clipper. Later lie joined the
Victorian naval service, and after steady
promotion went to China with the Austra-
lian contingent which took part in the Boxer
rebellion of 1901. Mutton was Naval Direc-
tor at Albany in 1914 when the immortal
first convoy started its journey from that
port.
The brothers McDonald, who long ago took
cattle from Goulburn (N.S.W.) to stock
Fossil Downs, 200 miles east of Derby
(W.A.), did not find “the world’s worst
desert” in the Kimberley region, though Lon-
don journals have recently discovered it
there, improving on the narrative of Sydney
papers. Neither did M. J. Durack, who took
his stud stock overland to Wyndham and was
21 years on the trip. Durack left Brisbane
in June, 1883, for Mt. Marloo, on the Bar-
coo, where he bought 2000 Shorthorn heifers
with 200 calves at foot. These he travelled
via Winton. Cloncurry, Burketown, Elsey
and Victoria Downs to Ord River, which he
reached in September, 1885, with 1000 head.
From Victoria River a brother was sent
back to Darwin, where he chartered a
steamer to take provisions to Cambridge Gulf,
There he was perched alone on a sandhill for
five weeks before the drovers came. Irish-
men have played a noble part in the history
of Outback Westralia, and the Duracks’
share is not the least famous.
Douglas Mawson, of Adelaide Uni., who
is to lead an expedition into the Antarctic,
thinks it isn’t the sort of place which should
be thrown away to the first noisy claimant
just to save the trouble of resistance. He
instances Alaska, which was regarded as a
useless waste when the Yankees got it, yet
has since yielded £860,000,000 worth of gold.
Antarctica has so far been treated almost
DOUGLAS MAWSON .
wholly as a curiosity and not as a practical
wild-cat. There are towns, including one of
3500 population, inside the Arctic Circle,
and Norway hangs on with a hard grip to
Spitzbergen, almost the nearest bit of land
to the North Pole, and has begun a profitable
coal-export trade from it. So if somebody
who isn’t Australia wants Antarctica very
badly, Douglas Mawson thinks it would be
worth while finding out what he wants it
for before throwing it at him.
WESTWARD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
•‘There was tragic irony in the fact that two
brave men who were engaged in a mission of succor
should themselves have perished. ’
Westward they winged, not for achievement s
sake , ~ .
In new domains, no fleeting fame then
quest.
Enough for them that there were lives at
stake, , , • i
Eyes dim with fears and tears, bruised
hearts to ache —
They headed west.
The summons came. No need to bid them
haste — .
A deeper call than ever wireless sent.
To help the weak they swept on wings that
raced, . , ,
From dawn to dark, o’er wilderness and
waste,
Westward they went.
They sought to succor men in peril sore,
A secret from the brooding hush to wrest.
Mates of old days might be at death s dark
door: , , ,
So much they knew. They stayed to ask no
more.
They headed west.
Westward, o’er stunted scrub and shifting
sand,
Mulga and spinifex their course they bent,
Athwart a desolating No Man’s Land,
Where grim Fate waited with a clutching
hand.
Westward they went.
Westward they winged, to find the lost their
aim ;
Westward, to aid the hard-beset they
pressed....
On blackened herbage, beneath slues aflame,
I)eath, dared for others’ lives, relentless
came
And bore them—west.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


* FOC2 BCA.VERV IN THE FACE OF THE
Enemy "
” \N OTHER SPORTS’
" VOULU GET YOUR 0.8. - FOR EURE l
*CI2LPEB ! BUT l MIGHT GET £v K.NIGHTHOOD OUT OF >T.
But we're /afraid there'll, be a, few
Indignation meetings about it.
DECORATIONS.
“A knighthood has been bestowed upon F. C. Toone for his success in managing the tour of the English cricket team in Australia, and as a recognition of the part
cricket plays in the Empire’s life.”
Poverty
Point
“John B.”: The mixed “goods” crawled
along and after a wheeze pulled up at the
station of a one-horse N.S.W. western town.
It was 3 a.m. and wet and miserable.
“Whatcher got aboard, Alf?” asked the
night officer of the guard. “Oh, fish and
actors.” The night air was stabbed by a
cracked, high-pitched voice. “Great Scot!
You might have put the actors first, laddie.”
The sleepless tragedian had spoken.
“M.G.S.”: Pavlova said the other day
that one of her reasons for going to Java
was to see the native dance, and she came
away sadly disappointed. She found that it
was dull and that it conveyed little. I won-
der if she saw the corps de ballet of the
Sultan of Jokja? The girls—4o or so in
number—are trained continuously from
babyhood. Their art is centuries old, and
as highly conventionalised as the designs on
the native sarong. Every movement of fin-
ger, wrist, ankle and diaphragm has a mean-
ing. Far from confining themselves to an
episode like “Don Quixote,” they interpret
whole dramas, the Javanese equivalents of,
say, “Antony and Cleopatra.” I attended
one which lasted three hours, but the Dutch
Controleur said I was lucky; on full official
occasions he had sat through 11 hours of
it. The ordinary Malay or Javanese rong-
geng Miss Pav. would see in Batavia is a
mere sideshow to weddings and funerals, and
her morals are no better than they should
be. As for her dancing, it has as much to do
with the real Javanese art as the hand-
springs at the Bijou have to do with Pav-
lova’s.
“A.G.M.” (Loud.) ; W. J. Turner’s satiri-
cal comedy “The Man Who Ate the Popo-
maek,” which w r as first produced by the Stage
Society, is having a two-weeks’ run at the
Gate Theatre, now the recognised centre of
the highbrows. It also had a show at the
Festival Theatre in November, 1926, and
October, 1928, and on all occasions has been
accented as the first real effort in expres-
sionism by a Britisher. Turner is an
Australian of the Yarra town. In this piece
he has the advantage of Terence Gray’s very
subtle methods of stagecraft, and space stag-
ing—through which attention is concentrated
on the players by means of sectional light-
ing—is being successfully tried out. The
picture gallery near Regent-street, the May-
fair drawing-room and the luxury flat in
which the action of the play is developed,
are all presented without alteration of scene,
the, several changes being indicated by short
flights of steps, rectangular blocks and
arrangement of furniture. The popomack is
a fruit of W. J. Turner’s fancy, and those
who eat of it are burdened -with an unplea-
sant odor.
“L. de R.”: Although in the past 17 years
Norman Campbell has taken seven parts and
played in “Sweet Nell of Old Drury” over
200 times, he saw the piece for the first
time at Melbourne Comedy the other night.
He is now dramatic critic for the Herald.
“F.S.”: If Bernard Heinze is allowed to
have his way, Melbourne -will shortly hear
from the University Symphony Orchestra
some of the modern music which has earned
shouts of applause from one section of Euro-
pean concertgoers, as well as yells of execra-
tion from another. The enterprising Bernard
has brought back from Europe works by
Bartok, Oberleithner, Parnach, Korngold and
others who are said to draw their inspiration
from the noises made by taxi-horns and
factory-whistles.
“F.A.” : Since Reg Carey played Billy to
Cuyler Hastings’s Holmes at Sydney Cri.
about 23 years ago nothing has been seen in
the Harbor town to approach the boy-acting
of the lads who hold the fort in “Young
Woodley.” Their diction has already been
favorably commented upon in Sundry Shows,
and they have in addition a uniformly mas-
terful technique that is almost freakish.
The characters are so vividly portrayed that
any man might throw his mind back to the
days of detention and ink-stained fingers, and
find a former school-fellow to coincide with
each of the prefects, and even more particu-
larly with the fag. The last-named, an Aus-
tralian youngster, is nowish behind his pre-
fects in elocution, which, by the way, brings
up the present state of school speech in this
country and what it might attain to.
“L.H.P.”: To Sydney’s most up-to-date
theatres has been added the Savoy,
first to emulate the latest New York and
London ideas of the “theatre intimate.” The
Savoy is the reconstructed Adyar Hall, in
Bligh-street, and will seat 700. Avery Hop-
wood’s comedy “The Alarm Clock” will be
the opening bill, and R. S. Baker’s company
will include Marie La Varre, Molly Rayner,
Andrew Higginson, Edward Landor and
Scott Alexander. Alexander will also be re-
sponsible for the production.
“Demetrius” : Melbourne Repertorians will
miss late knight George Syme, one of their
staunchest and most consistent supporters
and their president for years. The Society,
which had been in turn Reps., Mermaids,
Reps, again, then a Tait shandygaff, and
again Reps., was not an easy enterprise to
lead, for it always had two distinct cliques
representing respectively players and payers,
and production and finance were perpetual
problems. Sir George led the society in the
Tait agreement of grand ambition but small
fulfilment. The experiment was not a suc-
cess and the Reps, re-formed again as a
purely amateur organisation.
"llarnfat”: By most Australians W. B.
Spong, just dead, is remembered chiefly as
the father of the brilliant Hilda, who went
from Australia and immediately became a
star in London, which city she has forsaken
for America. But Spong, who came here
originally as scenic artist for Brough and
Boucicault, was a foremost man in his craft
and an artist who had recognition in the
Royal Academy. He came to Australia only
because the trip was made necessary by a
breakdown, but the contract for 12 months
developed into a stay of 11 years.
“Wood’s Green” (Loud.) : The hectic
dream that envisioned Melba joining up with
Beecham to make his Imperial Onera scheme
the crown and glory of her career lasted
about five seconds. It was an even more
fragile bubble than the conservatoire in Paris
for Australian vocal students. The money
available from Australian students in Paris
would not pay'the rent of a news-stand. That
the press should have given currency to such
a canard proves that journalists are often
more easily gulled than their readers. There
could be no such conservatoire without lavish
expenditure, and it was never even suggested
where the funds were to come from.
“St. John’s Wood” «Lond.): Diana Wil-
son of the alluring smile is again within
measurable distance of the West End, that
Mecca of all stage artists. She has a good
part in Brandon Thomas’s new comedy
“Big Fleas,” which, after its try-out at
Southsea, is marked for London production,
G. H. Mulcaster is also in the cast, whicn
is of all-round strength and includes Sydney
Fail-brother and Basil Foster. The scene is
laid at a fashionable seaside hotel, and much
of the fun turns on the defiance of supei’sti-
tion regarding Room 13.-
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Yet another of the
übiquitous breed is William Freshman, who
would be studying the collection of costs in
?“ uncle s office in Hunter-street, Sydney,
a desire to go on the stage had not struck
.when he was a schoolboy in England.
He is now doing well in British films and
makes an attractive juvenile m Widecombe
J- a movie that has greatly pleased Eng-
land. It is an adaptation of a Devonian
story by Eden Plnllpotts.
“W.”: Robert Chisholm, an Australian
singer still remembered for his part in the
London production of “The Maid of the Moun-
tains,” is back in Fogtown with a crown
of American laurels. He found a leading
part awaiting his acceptance in the new
Drury-lane production, “The New Moon.”
“Spot”: Melbourne girl Thelma Burness,
who, after playing minor parts in J.C.W.
musi-comedies and pantos., skipped off for
England last June, soon made good. She
was principal girl in “Humpty Dumpty,”
which, according to the critics, was the best
panto, ever put on in Glasgow. With her
in the co. were Wee Georgie Wood, as
Humpty, and the son of the Ace of Dames,
Dan Leno, jun.
“Imogen”: Kerry Kelly, latest of Aus-
tralian small-part mummers to test her wings
in London, possesses by right of baptism
a name more intriguing than any invented
stage-brand: Ceridwen. (This, pronounced
with a K. is the god-mother of the adopted
Kerry.) Welsh by birth as by name, Kerry
is the daughter of a leading ladies’ cou-
turiere in Melbourne. She began in Rep-
ertory; her “child” in “Dear Brutus” earned
for her her first notice by the prof. She
then had a run through the provinces right
up to North Queensland, and ended with
minor parts in the capital cities. She m
an attractive, vivid lass.
. . .. „ , ~
: The Australian stage should
shortly get an. advertisement of sorts abroad,
Frank Neil has been made an offer to play
a season of his farces m South Africa,
“C.R.”: “Tiger Island” will be the title
0 f a new Australian picture now being pre-
pared by G. M. Havle for Victorian Films,
Ltd. Some popular resorts will figure in the
background of a strenuous romance written
round the drug traffic. John Barry, son of
Dr. Barry Thomson, who- did a professional
season with Muriel Starr, will be one of the
bad characters. Scenes depicting the arrival
0 f a n English mailboat will not be such a
novelty as usual, as they have occurred in at
least four Victorian pictures to date—either
that or the departure.
A TRAVELLER’S TALE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“He met many notable people, including Charlie
Chaplin and Colleen Moore.” —A returned wanderer
interviewed.
Now tell us of the mighty you have met,
You who have crossed a world; the super-
folk
Who sit above our little fume and fret,
God-like, and ever more and more provoke
Our humble worship by heroic worth !
Which of these favored few did you “see
plain,”
What peer of this nobility of earth,
What shining spirit, what astounding
brain ?
“I met,” he said, upon his face the stamp
Of conscious pride—“l met a ‘baby vamp.’ ”
Ah, tell us of the wonders you have seen.
You who have dared the overwhelming
seas!
What sights of earth’s last miracles have
been
Vouchsafed you, and what mortal prodigies,
That well might earn the envy of the gods,
Met your astonished eyes where’er they
turned
To mark man’s “struggle against fearful
odds”;
What newer triumphs won, what lessons
learned?
“I saw,” he said (with awe his throat was
dry)—
“I saw just how they throw a custard-pie!”
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


-rr
1 1
m
v ■
-T’
□
B
C*
<
PS
I+SS?
v. S
.* 'v‘-
I^l
V. (~* 'l*-V, '
<-i
is<*
sc
\ > ‘X'.
&
u
V:,«
k\\ 1
£
*4
u
tA
m
: i iil
mtsi
V.
v.:
tmb
,*•;?
i 1)
JviJ'hV*'”
rjj^
3te#SfS^4»Sot*^
a
j *,
j w,
:'• ■*
*T£MR
U>l«' .
*v'.Y£
*n.
m\
AZT'MiS
iirv
>*»»,
•->
;-v
'•*4f
t;a*
v*r*
sfiB
SS
>■' V?
i
i
a£fe
m*
m
.'v*
Sift
B&S3S
MBRKi
I-Vtf
Vi
p*
■ '■-■>
■'’^rV'j
s&ilX
A#
iHM
m
fit '■
m
as
! re
raws
<r->iri
T’X
Mi -
-*jfl ßV
&?•
$ V;i * -*-'-Vl -
k. $2 >■*!< , 1
\-sr'fir.r
#3?
f»;
jfl
mm
mm
/i- *.v
H*
Sc/’ 1
'»&<■
r!»«*
5K
rfBP
fcs -
VVSs-Xi?s>
nM
V-£
wSr
-v
mm
i
A*V
ft?*
■
S»S
>'-
%
m
m
m
.-■■?
*
TA Y UO r<.
SERVICE
s
*~9
ẃ
The emblem of ivorld
quality in motor bodies
Sxpeit oonsimctioii
STEEL and wood are scientifi-
cally combined in Holden
Bodies to secure maximum
strength, resiliency and
absence of noise.
Mathematical precision in every
detail ensures Holden’s World
Standard Quality. A dummy model
is made in the development of every
new design. Exhaustive tests are held
under actual working conditions.
Approved by Experts, the bodies are
released for production.
Engineering of such thoroughness
ensures the strength and comfort of
every Holden Body—a quality product
equal to that of the world’s largest
body builder.
Insist on an Engineered body
built by Holden's.
HOLDEN'S
MOTOR BODY BUILDERS
L- I /VY ITED
ADELAIDE, MELBOURNE, SYDNEY AND
BRISBANE


Super
“Fx & R”
Watch, 15-
jewel led
Lever, in
0 x i d i sed
Steel Case,
open face,
pocket type,
66/-
■'V\
11
?y
?k>
o
A-
vxHy
a
5
Same
model i n
silver,
84/-
SUPER “Fx 8 R” WATCH
The Most Extraordinary Value
of the Age.
The movements are on the lever principle.
They have brequet over-coil balance springs.
They are J-plate Levers.
They are jewelled in 15 holes.
They have compensated and adjusted balances.
They have jewel ruby rollers.
They are specially made to stand rough riding
and knocking about.
They keep time to. within seconds a month.
They are guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in
order (breakages excepted) for one year.
They are made in every style of case.
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.?
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23-25 Hunter Street.
PLAIN FIGURES. CASH ONLY.
Convenient
ll >
k^
■& %
\%4
11"
W' x )^f5SR
tip'
y jsj -
-42$
At The Australia ” you are in the heart of
everything—time and travelling alike are saved
you.
This sketch from the promenade roof shows four
well-known Banking Houses, also the Tourist
Bureau offices and the clock tower of the G.P.O.
(chime silent during night hours).
Stay at "The Australia” and you will ap-
preciate its notable convenience.
Wireless, Cable and Telegraphic
Address : "Austraotel, Sydney.”
Capital Paid-up, £422,100.
THE HOTEL OF THE
COMMONWEALTH
SYDNEY.
ẅ
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Desert Song”
Criterion (com. Saturday) “Pigs’
Royal r avl “™
PAI ACE *O. 17
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOE'S FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s (com. Sat.)..“The Student Prince”
Koval “This Year of Grace”
New Comedy “Sweet Nell of Old Drury”
King’s “The Ghost Upstairs”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
“Don Quixote,” the Pavlova offering at
Sydney Royal on Saturday night, is one
of Pav.’s favorites, though it gives her no
opportunity to state terror and tragedy in
terms of dancing. It is 'a light, almost
trivial thing, and the music of Minkus,
though sweet and haunting, is trivial also.
The immortal lunatic is shown in his
study before a colossal book. The contents
inspire, and he calls on Saneho to arm him
for chivalrous adventure. The Rembrandt-
like interior of Quixote’s house changes to
a crowded and sun-drenched market place
with a background of tall galleons. Enter
Pavlova! Her innkeeper father disapproves
of the youth she loves. She pleads with the
enraged old man, but as yet there is no
depth in her entreaties; she is no more than
a gay embodiment of irresponsible femininity.
The music changes, and Quixote makes an
impressive entry. Stalking to one of the
inn tables, he proceeds to interest himself
in the troubles of the young people. He
registers revulsion at the popinjay whose suit
the innkeeper favors, approval of the char-
acter of the girl’s choice as expressed in a
series of admirable movements by Pierre
Vladimiroff. There is a mock suicide by the
latter, upon which the daughter displays dis-
may and grief. Saneho blunders forward
with a healing draught, and the knight,
stirred to his romantic depths, makes de-
mands on the father’s better feelings which
cannot be ignored. All is well. The rich
but over-dressed interloper departs under a
cloud of derision, and, after joining with
melancholy dignity in the rejoicings, Quixote
summons his retainer and goes on his way.
HELGA ROLUNDE, with Nat Madison in
“No. 17” at Sydney Palace.
Pavlova is incomparable as the daughter
—all light and life and girlish charm —but
the part makes no great demands on her,
emotionally or otherwise.
In Act II Quixote and Saneho are shown
in the dark of an enchanted forest. The
forest fades presently into Dulcinea’s moon-
lit garden, a lovely effect of dim opal tints
and shimmering white dresses. In Dulcinea
Quixote sees the lady of his dreams. He
tells her of his devotion, whereupon her
Knight of the Silver Shield casts the glove
of challenge at his feet. Shameful defeat is
the portion of the glorious figure of gallant
futility; but Dulcinea, the dream-woman,
understands where true worth resides. She
drapes his r.eck with her scarf to indicate
that this lover of humanity and the right is
her new knight, and her lovely companions
celebrate the event in the customary manner.
A fine and poignant conception, finely car-
ried out.
Pavlova makes no attempt to portray the
Dulcinea whom Cervantes drew. She is
Artemis in draperies; as delicate as a
Tanagra statuette, but with the steel
strength of a prizefighter; quicksilver in
movement, and frozen death in her conven-
tional attitudes of sudden repose. She does
things in this ballet that no one else in
the world can do, and she does them all the
time, but she never stirs the heart like poor
Quixote, whose movements are those of a
robot. It was an inspiration of genius to
build a ballet round him. Domoslavski, who
plays the part, is short, and has to wear
high heels and walk on tiptoes to get the
essential effect of tallness. lie provides the
illusion with the help of skilful acting and
a remarkable make-up.
In the divertissements, performed in a
Russian ddcor of heavy plum-colored back-
and side-curtains which put a sharp empha-
sis on everything—the technique of the
dancing, the; gigolo faces of the men, and tin*
designs of the dresses —Pavlova appeared
with Hitchens in that chare ing number,
Lincke’s Gavotte, in which she is the im-
memorial woman of fashion. Self-consciously,
insolently and with a grace that transcends
grace, she swims here and there, her partner,
looking almost twice her height, an effective
foil. Hitchens, who danced later with Ruth
French in a Tschaikowsky number, exempli-
fies the truth of the artistic maxim that the
male figure can be more beautiful than that*
of any female; yet Hitchens lacks the finish
and balance of the star, Vladimiroff. The con-
cluding item —“An Bal” (Tschaikowsky)
was interesting chiefly as a manifestation of
light humor in dancing, an art in which the
rest of the world has much to learn from
Russia.
* * *
At Melbourne Town Hall last week Ber-
nard Heinze, back from a visit to the centres
of world culture, launched his University
Orchestra on Beethoven’s Eighth Symphony
and the “Grande Pftque Russe” of Rimsky-
Ivorsakov. The last-named, new to Mel-
bourne, is as barbaric and Oriental ns the
turnip-top domes of the churches in Moscow,
despite the fact that it is listed as Christian
theological music. The mindless thump-thump
of Buddhist ritual sounded from the horns,
while the violins and flutes wailed of the
primitive fears of the savage surrounded by
devils and darkness.
What a contrast it made to the civilised
clarity and joyful gusto of the Eighth Sym-
phony—or would have made if the Eighth had
been played properly! This Showman went
to the Heinze concert expecting to be up-
lifted by this masterpiece of Beethoven,
which is practically new to Melbourne, too,
since it is ages since it was last given.
But Ludwig’s mighty gaiety was apparently
as far outside the comprehension of the con-
ductor as the intricacies of the score were
beyond the capacity of the half-amateur and
half-professional platformful of virtuosi. The
strings hustled it and the wood-wind labored
over it. In the last movement the com-
poser moves about on sunlit heights laugh-
ing serenely with the sheer joy of existence.
The Heinze interpretation was not far re-
moved from smirking.
The simpler “Oberon”
overture (Weber) was,
however, rendered delight-
fully ; and Evelyn Scotney
sang a panel, to the glee
of a large audience.
* * *
Arthur Benjamin, Aus-
tralian pianist, improves
upon acquaintance. At his
first recital he played
nostly with an orchestral
ackground which threw
nto vivid relief certain de-
ficiencies of tone. On his
second appearance, at Syd-
ney Town Hall on Satur-
day night, he made a much
better impression and de-
o - a n; a n-nrtv welcome.
He has not the breezy personality of his
fellow-countryman Percy Grainger, nor the
temperamental gifts of a Spivakovsky or a
Morini, but he is a very accomplished, intelli-
gent and conscientious musician, and in his
playing of Schumann’s “Traumeswirren”
and the tremendously difficult “Etudes Sym-
phoniques” he showed a very fine conception
of the whimsical, delicately-shaded tone-
pictures that this composer excels in. In
the opinion of many modern authorities
Schumann, at his best, is a severer test of
virtuosity and musicianship than either
Beethoven or Chopin, and Benjamin came
through the ordeal with flying colors.
The Beethoven E Flat Sonata, Op. 31,
and the Chopin Polonaise in A Flat, Op. 53,
were confidently and authoritatively rendered.
A very popular number —programme music
usually is popular—was the Strimner tran-
scription of Rimsky-Korsakoff’s “Flight of
the Bumble Bee.” Among other little items
of dessert that came after the heavy fare
were Rachmaninoff’s “Bells of Moscow” Pre-
lude, a very hardy evergreen, the same com-
poser’s seldom heard G Major Prelude,
Grainger’s arrangement of Tschaikowsky’s
“\ alse de F’lenrs, ’ and the pianist’s own
composition, “Saxophone Blues,” modern
and impressionistic in style.
* * *
After the first few bars of the F major
sonata of Beethoven (Op. 24), Melbourne
was handed over to handsome Erica
Morini bound hand and foot. “Bound” is
the proper word, for, for the first time in
present writer’s memory, an audience spon-
taneously refrained from intruding its
applause into the precious intervals between
tln> movements. Morini showed every facet
of an art which has already been fully
described in these pages. Suffice it to say
that any music-lover who misses her fiddling
of the slow movement of the Beethoven opus
will be losing something hard to duplicate
in this material world.
* * *
There was no vulgar ostentation about the
celebration of Shakspearc’s birthday in Mel-
bourne. Approximately 85,000 entertain-
ment-seekers thronged into the city on Satur-
day evening, and perhaps 150 of them poured
into the Assembly Hall for the Shakspeare
Society’s concert. The Rt. Hon. W. A. Watt,
M.11.R., lent the light of his countenance
to the procedings, the absence
of other leading statesmen
possibly being due to the fact
that “The Unkissed Bride”
was available at the Pal-
ace. The concert was mainly
a tournament of feminine
elocution, from which Miss
Nancy Ford stuck out as a
Shakspearean actress with a
future, if there is any future
for Shakspearean actresses.
* * *
Judging by the frequency
of its appearance, the Echo
Song was largely responsible
for Evelyn Scotney’s success
in Melbourne. A season of
five concerts ran on for over
a fortnight, and culminated
in a packed auditorium on
Saturday. However, on Mon-
day the lady with the light
and lush soprano was still
suspected of loitering with
intent to join in a Phil-
harmonic concert.
* * *
Noel Coward’s “Hay
Fever,” the recent offering at
North Sydney’s microscopic
Turret Theatre, is a triple-act drawing-room
comedy, in which Coward scraps his cus-
tomary audacity and creates an inoffensive
though sparkling story. It concerns an un-
blissful family named Bliss. The Bliss house-
hold consists of pa David, a novelist; Judith,
his spouse, a one-time melodramatic actress;
Simon, the heir, a youth with artistic taste
and a passion for broadcasting his opinions
in a high-pitched voice; and Sorel, the
daughter, a maid of independent outlook. Air
eccentric, unrestrained quartette, selfish and
discourteous to an amazing degree, and the
worst hosts this Showman has ever encoun-
tered on the stage. Upon the Blisses descend
four guests, each having been secretly invited
by a different member of the family. With
such a tangle for a start, a succession of
complicated amusing situations follows easily,
and .Coward’s pithy dialogue keeps interest
alive.
Apart from the inevitable mishaps and
casualness that seem to be inseparable from
the majority of amateur productions, in Syd-
ney, the presentation was OK. and the act-
ing good. Frances Hooper and S. R. Irving
did extra well, and Naomi Waters and Mar-
guerite Cullen Ward left an impression that
they are capable of better things. The
scenery had the air of being designed by an
uninspired dilettante.
* # *
A Digger concert party, calling themselves
the “Dinkums,” hopped-over at the Arcadia,
a down-town picture theatre in Pitt-street,
Sydney, last week. Present Showman saw
sundry similar shows behind the line in
France and Flanders and never failed to
enjoy them. In fact he has occasionally
compared theatrical offerings in Sydney most
unfavorably with the show near Bray or St.
Omer or elsewhei’e —a mere effect, of course,
of the sentimental romanticism that Time
always throws over things seen long ago, and
which accounts for all adults finding some-
thing, from left-hand bowlers to circuses, not
what they used to be. But after looking in
on the Dinkums, at least one Digger felt that
he had been disillusioned, and that the swing
of the ball or the smell of the elephant was
not as rich as he had thought.
* * ¥
After 18 months in Maoriland, Connors
and Paul have led their League of Notions
revue co. into Melbourne Bijou. C. and P.
are adepts at the sort of smart comedy
sketch which ends with an exclamation pro-
vided by a blackout. That intensely indi-
vidual buffoon, Syd Beck, contributes to the
gaiety.
The Shuron de Vries co. are still de-
servedly headliners at Melbourne Tivoli,
where Gautier’s dogs have commenced laying
bricks for the umpteenth time. Fair to
middling vaudeville fills the rest of the
programme. At Sydney Tiv. Ada Reeve is
proving a great draw-card.
¥ * *
At Adelaide Royal “The Girl Friend" con-
tinues its merry course, but will switch to
“Hit the Deck” soon. At the Prince of
Wales, “Divorce” (American It.C. propa-
ganda against the same) has some fine act-
ing by Geoffrey Millar as the priest and
JENNIE BENSON, leading in “Clowns
and Clover” at Sydney Empire.
Richard Bellairs as a dope victim; but surely
it is bad tactics to offer a “popular” audi-
ence a show that starts at 8.20 and ends at
10.10? Wondergraph is crammed by those
who want both eye and ear startled by Edgar
Wallace’s “Terror.” At the York, Ronald
Colman doing Fairbanks stuff among sav-
ages; at West’s an all-American gunmen
story, with Pola Negri as a pleasant con-
trast; at the Regent, aeroplane thrills (and
good music). Heughan is singing at the
Town Hall.
* * *
Nellie Bramley celebrated her 12 months’
occupancy of Brisbane Royal by putting on
three shows in a week. Previously the co.
had put on one new one a week, which looks
a tall-enough order, but the triple change
went so well that an ambitious management
is hinting that it may become the regular
order of things.
* H- *
The opening of new giant picture-theatres,
the' renovation of others, the wholesale land-
slide in the direction of the talkies and the
trade depression are hitting the legitimate
playhouses in Melbourne. It is doubtful if
“The Vagabond King.” at His Majesty’s, will
establish another endurance record. If any
such record is put up, it is likely to go to
the little Athenaeum, which abandoned legit,
three months ago and is still getting satis-
factory box-office results from its original
programme of talkies. In fact, it expects
to subsist on one change until Christmas—
the change to be from “The Jazz Singer”
with A 1 Jolson to “The Singing Fool” with
the same shrewd and popular sentimentalist.
* * *
After having done pretty solid business
throughout its stay at Sydney Criterion
“Young Woodley” departs on Saturday to
make room for “Pisrs.” A change also
occurs on the same date at the St. James,
where “The Baby Cyclone” replaces “Lido
Lady.” On Friday the splendid picture
“White Shadows” goes off at the Prince
Edward, to be replaced that night by “Inter-
ference,” a talkie drama. On the following
Saturday the converted Adyar Hall begins
life afresh as the Savoy Theatre, with Avery
Hopwood’s “The Alarm Clock” as the first
offering. A week later Brailowsky will begin
a four-nights’ season at the Town Hall.


The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company, Limited.
Founded 1886.
Assets at 31st December, 192 7,
£18,567,527,
of which 85% was represented by
Public Securities.
The M.L.C. Charter is constituted to
admit of the issue of policies to meet
the necessities of every class, every age,
every purse. Its range of contracts is
unsurpassed for diversity and liberality,
and the fulfilment of every contract is
guaranteed by the Company s capital
and its ever-increasing assurance Funds.
CASH SURPLUS in the Ordinary
Branch for the year 1927, £609,330.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
Head Office: Citizens’ Building, Castlereagh
Street and Martin Place, Sydney.
Who Will Manage Your Estate?
At all times when an individual is appointed as Executor or Trustee
the uncertainty of human life is present. Who is better qualified to
administer your Estate than the
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED.
It cannot die, travel or disappear; has had over 40 years’ experience
in the management of all classes of Estates and offers as security the
whole of its capital and assets—over £1,000,000.
Our Explanatory Booklet will be
sent to you Post Free on Request.
THOS. BUCKLAND
JAMES MOIR
DIRECTORS:
N. YARWOOD
(Chainnan)
0. E. FRIEND
Lt.-Col. T. F. RUTLEDGE
j W. Barnes, Manager. E. V. T. Whittle, Asst. Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
107
Tile and Slate Merchant*,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
McDowell’s, Ltd. (Sydney).
McDowell and Hughes, Ltd., hung out its
sign over a drapery store in George-street,
Sydney, in 1912. Eight years later there
wus a reconstruction; eight fully-paid ords.
were handed out for every live held in the
old co., and the name was changed to the
present title. The accounts were balanced
by writing up the leases and putting £1(5,09:5
against goodwill, which is not treated as
an asset hereunder.
The co.’s extraordinary progress since is
recorded in these figures:—
Towards
f Dividends \ Re-
Feb Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ *
1921*.. 5,274 8 p.c. 7 p.e. 4970 304 16,389
1922 . . 5,579 8 „ 5 ~ 5742 16,552
1923 .. 11,464 8 „ 7i „ 8284 3180 13,372
£20,100 of capital written off; goodwill
expelled and leases and other assets written
down. Reserves.
1924 .. 14,606 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 8,630 6,976 9,297
1925 7. 27,760 8 „ 124 „ 10,588 17,172 26,469
1926 . . 23,668 8 „ 124 „ 18,902 4,766 31,235
1927 .. 40,127 8 „ 15 „ 27,589 12,588 48,823
1928 . . 48,207 8 „ 15 „ 27,681 20,526 64,349
Share premiums, £15,767 .. 80,117
1929 . . 62,757 8 p.e. 15 p.c. 37,141 25,616 100,733
* Right months.
Early in the last term shareholders were
offered 03,068 new £1 ords. at a premium of
ss. each. The lot was quickly snapped up,
and that made paid capital £247,280 at Feb.
28 —there was then only another £4992 to
come in—and reserves benefited by £ls,<6<
of share premiums. The new money was
used partly to reduce the debt and partly
to provide for bigger trading by building up
stocks. The promptness with which turn-
over responded is illustrated by the leap
of £43,529 in the year’s gross profit. After
paying exes., etc., and setting aside £15,006
for taxation as against £10,500 in the pre-
vious term, net profit benefited by £14,50U
of the increase. Allowing for the handful
of prefs., which call for £BOO p.a., the
balance of the year's net earnings was an
attractive 25.5 pc. on average ord. capital
compared with 26.4, 22, 15.7, 34.4 and 14.5
p.c. back to 1924. .
Thus over the last six years, in addition
to issuing £163,963 of new capital, attending
to the prefs. and giving the ords. an average
of 13J p.c. p.a., the co. has been able to
accumulate £105,733 of visible reserves.
It is only during these half-dozen years
that the business has bounded ahead. In
1923 the keen management, realising that
good buying and quick turnover were the
key to profit-making, set to work to tidy up
the position in preparation for bigger things.
But the 1920 reconstruction rather stood in
the way, so, as a preliminary to getting in
more capital, the intangibles were written
out of the sheet by cancelling one ord. share
of every four, and the scrip, which had been
selling around 155., immediately moved to
above par on the market. Then, assured that
the site was a good one, it was decided to
buy the freehold of part of the co.’s George-
street premises, together with the business
and King-street freehold of its old friend
and neighbor, W. T. Waters and Co. Inci-
dentally, an extra two storeys were put on
to the King-street property. It was a big
step, but it at once removed one. or the co.s
greatest dangers by anchoring goodwill, the
value of which was also enhanced, while
provision was made for expansion of the
business. It is not surprising, therefore, that
when 88,309 ords were offered at 20s. in
1925 they were over-applied for.
Shortly before the close of accounts in
1928 the co. added to the George-street free-
hold by the purchase of Denison House,
bought from Washington H. Soul, Pattinson
and Co. for £140,000, of which £llO,OOO re-
mained on mortgage. Thus the co has gone
pretty heavily into debt to finance its pro-
perty purchases
The next comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows the position in this and other
respects:—
1925. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital.. £88,309 £189,203 £189,203 £247,280
Mortgages .. 62,500 167,500 165,500
Sundry creditors 456 26,122 63,008 32,060
Freeholds, lease-
holds, etc. 11,583 I jgj 35g 325,393 329,922
Investments .. 17,292 j
Stock . • 58,800 100,216 108,472 130,353
Book debts .. 23,078 30,710 25,441 28,380
Cash, etc. . . 14,754 33,340 53,911 103,098
During the year the overdraft (£42,111 at
the previous balance) was wiped out, £21,851
was added to the book value of stocks, and
the cash holding was strengthened by
£49,187. Thus, after taking minor move-
ments into account, the financial position
improved £10,955; the more or less liquid
surplus, including stocks, amounting to
£64,271 at Feb. 2S. If conditions will per-
mit of progress on that scale for a while
the board should soon be able to rub out
some of the co.’s mortgage debt.
The strength of the business lies mainly
in rapid turnover, and that is due very largely
to the excellence of the site occupied by
the stores. Changes will no doubt occur in
the future; overhead and underground pas-
sages across many busy streets are inevitable.
Meantime, owing to the fact that people are
crossing busy streets now as little as pos-
sible', there is a tendency to concentrate busi-
ness—the block that has much trade gets
more, and the block that has little gets less.
McDowell’s site is in the Post Office block,
which is becoming more and more thronged.
And obviously for the past year it has been
thronged by people with a groat deal of
money to spend. How that money has been
got, and whether it can continue to be got,
is another matter.
Following the publication of the sheet the
price for the ords. strengthened from 425.
to 455. 6d. ; a year ago they could be had
at 375. After allowing for the final div.
and bonus (25.) tin? return at the current
price is 6.9 p.c. on a 15 p.e. div. basis. The
backing amounts to 28s. 9d. in net tangibles.
The well-protected profs.—there are only
10,000 of them carrying a cumulative 8 p.c.
p.a. with priority as to capital, and they par-
ticipate in new share issues—seldom come on
to the market.
West’s, Ltd. (Sydney).
To Re- Re-
Mareli Profit. Dividends serves, serves.
H C £ £
1917.. (5,07 0 6ip.c.= 6,028 42 10,994
1918 13,502 13} „ „ 13,260 242 11,236
1919 9 266 74 7,233 2033 13,209
1920 8 178 71 7.233 945 14,214
mii: le.ou io j 9,644 7270 21,434
1922.. 6,954 74 ~ ~ 7,233 21,205
1903 8,488 7*„ » 7,233 1255 22.460
1924 13 009 10 „ „ 9,644 3365 25.825
1926.. 12.068 10 ” „ 9,644 2424 28,249
1990 9 863 10 ~ ~ 9,644 219 28,468
1907 ’ 16,112 12*;; ,; 12,055 4057 32,525
1928.. 16,417 12* „ „ 12,055 4362 30,88<
1929.. 17,929 124 „ ~ 16,402 1527 38,414
This is one of the holding cos. in a pic-
ture combine. West’s, Spencoi*s and Ainal-
gamated all sold their showing interests to
the General Film Co., mostly for scrip, in
1913. Since then their respective earnings
have been mainly the divs. received from
those shares. To start with, Wests got
£86,536 in scrip and £10,400 of debentures
for its interests. Over 40 p.c. of that lot
was for goodwill; but instead of inflating
its own capital, which remained steady at
£96,443 until last year, it earmarked
£37 888 of the purchase consideration as a
special capital reserve to provide against a
possible fall in the value of the shares.
General Film and Greater J. D. Williams
between them own all the shares in two
big operating cos. —Union Theatres, which
does the showing, and Australasian I dins,
which does the hiring. . .
Interest in the investment position lias
been stimulated by the vigorous programme
of development recently undertaken by Union
Theatres, which last year raised Us sub-
scribed capital to £700,000 by issuing 400,001)
new £1 shares. This is reflected m Wests
latest account by an increase of £OOl-.) m
the paid capital, making it £192.0<2
at March '3l; there was then another
£312 to come in. Thus the co. was able
to take up 104,773 new pound shares in the
Film Co., making the total holding 191,26!
shares, on which £184,115 had been paid
when the books were ruled off. Other assets
were cash and public securities, £39,103; book
debts, £1141; freehold, £37,571; leasehold,
£1775- Film Co.’s debentures, etc., £I4,4UU.
There ’was only £3842 coming to creditors.
Exactly what the co.’s shareholdings turn
in is not disclosed in the published accounts.
Last year the board wrote the bare net
profit £1512 better than the 1927 figure, or at
13 6 p.c. on average capital; thus the co. was
able to repeat the 124 p.c. to shareholders for
the third year in succession. _ Certainly the
margin narrowed, but that point loses much
of its importance by reason of this com-
pany’s interest in the undistributed pio-
fits of the two operating concerns. Now'
Union Theatres has decided to put out an
additional 300,000 £1 shares of which West s
proportion, in the Film Co. s scrip, is 08,04_
shares. When these are all taken up they
will advance West’s holding to 269,811
shares And to enable the board to do this
it will shortly offer shareholders 77,153 new
£1 shares, two for five, at par. M hen all
the money on that lot is in, paid capital will
be £270,037, and a 124 div. will then call
for £33,754. That raises the question: Can
the 124 p.c. be maintained? Appearances are
that things would have to be cut very fine to
do it. It is possible, of course, that the
Film Co. may increase the rate of its dis-
tribution, which, on the published figures of
other members of the group, was 10 p.c. or
thereabouts for 1927, and there does nor
appear to have been any alteration last year.
Twelve months ago General Film Co.
owned £202,500 of the £300,(M)0 of paid capi-
tal in each of the two operating cos., t but
the recent new share issue by Linon
Theatres, and that now pending, will advance
its total holding in that co. to 6 1 7,99.3 £1
shares In its last term the Union co. is
said to have paid £35,000 in divs., equal
approximately to 11J p.c. on its then paid
capital; that makes the div. paid by Aus-
tralasian Films 0 p.c. or thereabouts. More-
over, after making all allowances considered
necessary, including provision for taxation,
Union netted £97,63!) for the 12 months to
June 30 last, which was at the rate ot o—j
p.c. on paid capital as against 30.1 p.c. and
23.7 p.c. in each of the two preceding years;
all of which makes the position look attrac-
tUßut since Hoyts and ,1. C. Williamsons
amalgamated their picture-interests U
there has been keen competition between
the two big groups —Hoyts and Union
—which now control nearly all the
most important picture-theatres in Australia.
Besides building ornate “palaces” in nearly
all the capital cities of the States, the Union
Co recently bought an interest in the Prince
Edward Theatre (Sydney). This followed
the merging of Union and Carroll picture-
interests, which greatly strengthened the
co.’s position in Queensland. Also a string
of suburban and country picture-houses has
been bought, and early this year the Greater
Wondergraph Co., Adelaide, was taken over
The most recent development is the reported
expenditure of a lot of money on the instal-
lation of “talkie” equipment in Union s
principal theatres.
AH this, of course, can be expected to
swell future earnings; but whether the
£700,000 of new capital will be able to earn
at the same rate as the old remains to be
seen. One big danger lies in the possibility
of excessive competition resulting in the
over-capitalisation of the industry. Inci-
dentally Union has guaranteed the div. and
capital on £600,000 of 8 p.c. pref. money in
the two subsidiaries which own the ‘ State
theatres in Melbourne and Sydney.
At June 30 last the Union Co.’s scrip had
a net tangible backing of approximately
21s. per share, mostly in freeholds. But
whether these would be worth their book
value for any other purpose is another mat-
ter. No information has been recently made
available concerning the financial position
of Australasian Films or the General Film
cos., so what the net tangible backing for
West’s scrip amounts to cannot be stated
definitely. Including the capital reserve and
the present new share issue, West’s own
reserves figure out at ss. Bd. per share. The
market prices the shares at 375. 6d. After
exercising the rights and allowing for the
bonus (6d. per share), the return at that
figure is 7.7 p.c. as long as the 12J p.c. div.
continues.
Kempthorne, Prosser (M.L.).
Writ- To Re- Ile-
Jan., Profits. Dividends, ten Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1917.. 25,575 8 p.c. i= 21,200 4,375 65,516
lylB.. 30,329 8 „ „ 22,120 5000 3,209 68,725
1919.. 33,520 8 ~ ~ 23,917 9,603 78,328
Premiums on new siiares .. 12,500 90,828
1920.. 40,768 10 p.c. = 31,493 9,275 100,103
1921.. 43,618 10 „ „ 36,412 7,206 107,309
1922.. 32,921 8 ~ „ 31.828 1,093 108,402
1923.. 37,100 9 „ „ 35,997 1,103 109,505
1924.. 42,376 10 „ „ 40,000 2,376 111,881
1925.. 47,371 10 „ 40,000 7,371 119,252
Premiums on new shares .. 32,500 151,752
1926.. 54,924 10 p.e. = 41,974 —\ 7953 159700
Staff provident fund, £5OOO ) '- aou ’’ J
1927.. 57,134 10 p.c. = 48,299 1 7 836 167 537
Staff provident fund, £lOOO )
1928.. 56,642 10 p.c. - 52,638 —1 1004 1C 8,541
Staff provident fund, £3OOO )
1929.. 72,810 10 p.e. - 52,974 t 16 336 184j8 77
Staff provident fund, £3500 )
Reserves capitalised, £53,000 .. 131,877
This is Kempthorne, Prosser and Co.’s New
Zealand Drug Co., Ltd., which last year cele-
brated its jubilee by writing a record net
profit and handing shareholders toJJXK) ot
bonus scrip, the first gift iu the eo. s histoi y.
In addition to building up a big drug-making
and -importing trade, the management has
developed a large fertiliser business through
out the Dominion, which explains most of
the big increase in the co.’s figures.
The first, acid works were built at Burn-
side. Dunedin, as long ago as 1881, and the
Auckland plant was put up before the war.
But not until recent years has the produc-
tion of superphosphate been undertaken 011
a reallv large scale. Since 1922 works have
been established at Christchurch and Wan-
ganui and the demand for the product has
been so strong that an extra unit has had
to ho added at Wanganui, and new works
are now nearing completion at Burnside.
Shareholders, though they have never failed
to receive a div., have not got very fat
out of the business, which for a long while
lacked something in organisation. It took
over 40 years for the div. to climb to 10
pc and twice since, during the post-war
slump, distributions have fallen below that
rate, thus making the average for the past
decade 9.7 p.c. And that is partly a nominal
rate, .because all new share issues for the
past 20 years have been made at a premium.
Still, the scrip has always stood above the
issue price on the market, so the new shares
have been in the nature of bonuses to holders.
For some time, owing to keen competition
and price-cutting, the co. did not make mucu
out of its super. A little over a year ago,
however, differences in the trade were patched
up, and with the return to better prices, and
the vast increase in the use of chemicals for
top-dressing pastures, gross'profits responded
handsomely without a corresponding increase
in exes.: —
Gross Profits. Expenses.
1910 .. £53,084 £30,426 68.6 p.C.
1915 . . 67,094 43,635 65.0 „
19*>0 .. 339,909 100,098 71.5 „
1995 .. 147,344 99,985 67.8 „
199(j 161,320 106,500 66.0 „
1997 .. 163,725 106,612 65.1 „
1928 .. 177,159 120,533 68.0 „
1929 . . 199,318 126,522 63.4 „
For the 12 months to Jan. 31 the spring
in gross profit was £22,159, and net profit
benefited by no less than £10,168 of the in-
crease, reaching 13.7 p.c. on paid capital, or
12.4 p.c. on capital as increased by the bonus
issue. A 10 l».c. div. will in future call for
£58,300, and, except for last year, net earn-
ings have never reached that figure.
Still, the task does not appear to be beyond
the capacity of the business. With the altered
conditions in tin* trade, and the use of fer-
tiliser on the increase, and likely to con-
tinue so for years yet, earnings should im-
prove, and profits can be expected to benefit.
But there is nothing to indicate that any-
thing better than 10 p.c. need be looked for
yet awhile. Hitherto margins have been
slender, and capital would be none the worse
for a little more support. In the manufac-
ture of super., plant is subject to heavy wear
and tear, and constant mechanical improve
meats, many of them affecting the cost of
production, tend to make obsolescence rapid.
Much, therefore, depends upon whether
allowances for depreciation, etc., prove to be
adequate. Last year £20,000, or £2500 more
than in the previous term, was so set aside,
and the chairman gives his assurance that
the plant has been maintained in “first-class
order.” , ,
The growth of the business and last year s
profitable trading are reflected in this com-
parison of balance-sheet figures:—
1910. 1920. 1928. 1929.
Capital .. £200,000 £367,140 £529,639 £529,866
Liabilities .. 59,442 76,050 153,476 206,081
Stock .. 149,622 188,874 279,704 294,721
Factories, etc. 103,193 140,114 435,914 447,048
Book debts .. 53,513 105,283 142,975 194,782
Cash, etc. .. 4,373 183,976 25,123 16,914
In order to (1) meet the outlay on the Burn-
side works—£3l,l34 was spent on plant, <4c.,
during the year—(2) carry an extra £51,8U.
of book debts, and (3) add £15.017 to the
total of the stock sheets, only £52,605 was
tacked on to the amount due to creditors.
The more or less liquid surplus (£300,336)
was £6OlO stronger than at the previous
balance, including stocks. They are reported
quite representative, well kept and ot goon
value; much depends upon that.
The market, which gave £3 Bs. for the
fully-paid £2 shares a year ago, now offers
£3 15s. Gd. for them. The return at the cur-
rent price is 5.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The backing, after allowing for the bonus
issue, is 495. per share in net tangibles.
Bon Marche, Ltd (Sydney).
r Dividends. , Toward*
Net Pref. R®*
Profit. 7} p.c. Ordinary. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ *■
60.000
1921.. 18,760 6000 74 p.c. = 7500 5.260 54,740
1922.. 14,565 6000 74 .. 7500 1,065 53,675
1923.. 18,606 6000 74 „ „ 7500 6,106 £8,569
1924.. 23,513 6000 74 .. 7600 10,013 38,556
1995 23 661 6000 74 » 7600 10.161 2 §.395
1926.. 23,686 6000 74 „ 7500 10,186 18,209
1927.. 23,756 6000 74 „ „ 7aoo 10,256 7,953
11 Reserves.
Assets written up, £25,000 ••
1928.. 22,352 6540 8 p.c. = 8000 7,812 -4,8j9
1929.. 15,650 7600 8 „ „ 8000 150 25,009
When this drapery offshoot of Marcus Clark
and Co. was floated into a separate concern
nine years ago, it took over a 20-years lease
of premises at the corner of George and
Harris streets, Sydney. Since then it lias
built up a fairly wide and profitable connec-
tion. largely t.-p. To anchor the goodwill
which attaches to the position, and to pro-
vide for further expansion of the business,
the board recently bought the corner pro-
perty, with an adjoining block at the real.
The r; ice was £59,773, and that was
£25,000 below valuation, so the property was
written up by the latter amount and paper
reserves benefited.
To finance the deal £20,000 of i p.c- Pf
money w T as got in, making paid
£200,000, half prefs. and the other half ord.>.
The public’s interest is confined to the prets.;
the ords., which include £60,000 for good-
will, arc all held by the parent, who agreed
to take not more than 7 $ P-c. °p its holding
until a reserve fund of £40,000 had accumu-
lated The fund reached that point two
years' ago, and the ords. have since had
8 p.c., though things had to be cut fine to
do it last year. New building operations,


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS.
Roto Colour Gravure Corporation (Aust.) Limited
(Incorporated under the Companies Acts of New South Wales, 1899-1918).
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £250,000 divided into 250,000 Shares of £1 each.
CAPITAL OFFERED FOR PUBLIC SUBSCRIPTION.
15,000 7 2 per cent. “A” Cumulative Participating
Preference Shares of £l each £15,000
35,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each 35,000
50,000 £50,000
CAPITAL TO BE ISSUED AS FULLY PAID.
10,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each will be issued as
fully paid up to the Vendors of the Agency
and rights as hereinafter mentioned in accord-
ance with the terms of agreement £lO,OOO
Total Preference and Ordinary Capital in
60,000 Process of Issue. £60,000
Capital Reserved for Future Issue.
190,000 Shares of £1 each £190,000
250,000 £250,000
Amounts payable on all shares now offered for public subscription are
as follow:
5/- per share on application.
5/- per share on allotment.
10/- balance in calls of not more than 2/6 per share at intervals of
not less than one month.
Subscribers may pay for their shares in full upon allotment or may pay
the balance in full or in part at any time in advance of calls.
All shares will rank for dividend from date of allotment proportionately
to the amount paid up thereon. In the event of the issue being over-sub-
scribed pro rata allotment will be made, and fractions may be disposed of in
such manner as the Directors think fit.
If a lesser number of shares is allotted than is applied for, excess appli-
cation money will be applied in payment of the amount payable on allotment,
and the balance, if any, will be retijrned in full.
Application money will be returned in full if no allotment is made.
DIRECTORS:
CHAIRMAN:
JOHN FULTON ROFE, Solicitor, Rofe’s Chambers, O’Connell Street, Sydney.
PERCY MARCHANT (Managing Director), Chairman of Directors, Marchant
and Co., Ltd., Offset and General Printers, 321 Pitt Street, Sydney.
WILLIAM WILSON McLELLAN, Director of Seligson and Clare (Aust.), Ltd.,
56 Clarence Street, Sydney, Australian Representatives for the Koenig
and Bauer Roto-Gravure Printing Presses.
BANKERS*
AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE, Ltd.
Head Office: George Street, Sydney.
SOLICITORS
ALFRED ROFE & SONS, Rofe’s Chambers,
O’Connell Street, Sydney.
AUDITORS:
PRIESTLEY & MORRIS, Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
1 6 Barrack Street, Sydney,
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
A. G. NOBLE, A.C.A. (Aust.), 16 Barrack Street, Sydney.
RIGHTS OF PREFERENCE SHAREHOLDERS.
The holders of “A” Cumulative Participating Prefei'enee Shares will be (entitled to receive
out of the profits to be determined in each year a fixed cumulative preferential dividend at
the rate of 7| per cent, per annum and participating further to 10 per cent, per annum upon
the payment of a dividend of 10 per cent, per annum on all ordinary shares for the time being
issued.
In the event of winding up they are entitled to priority as to the repayment of capital
and accrued dividend.
Preference .shareholders will be entitled to vote at General Meetings of the Company only
if the dividend on the Preference shares has not been paid for a period of more than six months.
Brokerage.
A Brokerage of 5 per cent, will be paid in respect of all shares duly allotted and introduced
by any authorised person.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY.
The objects of the Company are set out in full detail in the Memorandum of Association,
and include inter alia —
To acquire from the Vendors, Mr. Percy Marchant and Mrs. Marie Dorin, their rights in the
sole agency for Australia of the Koenig and Bauer Roto-Gravure Five-Color Intaglio Printing
Presses, and to adopt and carry into effect the necessary agreements incidental thereto. Such
sole agency extends, subject to minimum purchases, for a period of 21 years.
To acquire and take over the plant of the Natural Color Printing Company.
The Company will also carry on the business of Printers. Engravers and Publishers in
Colors, Newspaper Proprietors, Advertising Agents, Machinery Merchants and any undertaking
capable of being carried on profitably in connection with the above-mentioned objects. It is
also proposed to form subsidiary Companies in other States and negotiate the agencies therewith,
and further exploit the rights proposed to be acquired.
THE PROCESS.
The machines covered by the Agencies mentioned are produced by the Manufacturers, Messrs.
Koenig & Bauer, of Wuraburg, Germany, with whom is associated the International Intaglio
Corporation. The process of the machines enables in one operation (or “pull”) the printing
of matter on all classes of paper consisting of four distinct colors on one side with one
color on the reverse side. Such work under the present flat-bed letterpress machine necessitates
live separate operations entailing considerable loss of time in the “drying” process.
A comparison of the two methods may be readily appreciated when it is pointed out that
on the Koto-Gravure Five-Color Machine the production of 9000 printed and perfected copies
on paper, say, 49in. x 87$in., would occupy a period of one hour, while the same production
on the flat-bed letterpress machine would occupy about 25 hours. This enormous saving of
time is also supplemented by further economies in the actual cost of production.
ADVANTAGES OF PROCESS.
It. will be realised readily that such a process naturally carries many economies and
advantages over the methods now in vogue on the usual flat-bed letterpress machine. Summarised,
briefly, some are as follow:
(1) The capacity of the machine and the process by which it is worked enable an output
to be obtained in highest-quality. printing which has hitherto been considered impossible
in Australia, both in illustrated work and general printing.
(2) The process gives a brilliance and perfection of color equal to the finest results
obtainable from the most efficient letterpress machine, in a wide range of easily-obtainable
shades in five distinct colors, four on one side of the paper and one on the reverse side.
(3) Paper to be used may be purchased at one-half the cost of that necessary for high-class
art production by letterpress machine.
(4) The Koto-Gravure printing surface is claimed to be more durable than the formes
or plates used in letterpress printing. Practical tests show that good printing may
still be carried out even after 100,000 impressions have been taken.
(5) The ink used in the process is less costly than the ink used in the flat-bed letterpress
machine.
(0) “Make-ready” is abolished, thus saving time and wages and general overhead.
(7) A cylinder for use on the Roto-Gravure machine may be produced in three hours for
standard work, but if for smaller work it may be prepared in considerably less time.
It will be seen, therefore, that the many economies effected by the above advantages tend
to make a considerable reduction in the total cost of production, - combined with an increase
in the efficiency of the work.
PLANT AND EQUIPMENT.
The multi-color printing process already outlined is a new method in Australia, but it has
been thoroughly tested and proved in Kurope and in America. The Manufacturers, Messrs.
Koenig and Bauer, do not usually supply, on short notice, the particular machine which this
Company proposes to import, but at the present time they have one of these machines of the
most up-to-date type in the process of manufacture. Through the assistance of the Vendors,
an option has been secured over this machine, and it will, therefore, take only a very short
time to import and instal this unit. The Directors do not think it necessary or advisable
to publish detailed specifications or other information relating to the machine in this
Prospectus.
The opinion is held that immediately the Company’s initial unit is established in working
order in Sydney, and the process introduced into the Australian Market, several more units
will be required.
ft is proposed subsequently to form subsidiary Companies in other States for the exploitation
of the Company’s machines, and while negotiations have already been commenced in connection
wth the formation of such a Company in Melbourne, the Directors have decided to concentrate
upon the establishment of the Sydney unit on a commercial basis before extending their
activities into other States.
MANAGEMENT.
A perusal of the names of the Board of Directors appearing in this Prospectus will show that
men of absolute commercial integrity, combined with a very wide business experience, have been
chosen. The control of the Company will be in the hands of Mr. John Fulton Rofe (Chairman of
Directors), while the detailed management will be supervised by the Managing Director, Mr. Percy
Marchant. Mr. Marehant is well known in Australia as Chairman of Directors of Marchant
and Co., Ltd., of Sydney, Offset and General Printers.
As regards the experts and general assistants to be employed by the Company, the
Manufacturers have consented to plaee at the disposal of the Company, for a sufficient period,
several experts, not only to instal the machines in working order, but to train the Australian
executives and general printing hands in the process.
VENDORS’ CONSIDERATION.
In consideration of the sale to the Company of the rights to the sole agency of the
Roto-Gravure machine, the plant of the Natural Color Printing Co., and of the services rendered
and expenses incurred by the Vendors in the promotion of this Company, it has been agreed
that Mr. Percy Marchant and Mrs. Marie Dorin shall receive the following consideration:—
(1) 10,000 ordinary shares of £1 each fully paid.
(2) 25 per cent, of the consideration either in cash or shares to be received from the sale
by this Company of the agencies before mentioned to any subsidiary companies formed.
(3) £lOOO in cash for plant of Natural Color Printing Co.
UTILISATION OF THE CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED.
After careful consideration it is estimated that the capital offered for public subscription
will be utilised in the following manner:—
Cost of purchase of one Roto-Gravure Five-Color Printing Press, together with
all necessary Etching Plant and other accessories, including cost of installation £25,000
Capital required to cover stock, materials, general working capital, preliminary
expenses, brokerage, etc. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 24,000
Cash consideration payable to Vendors for plant of the Natural Color Printing Co. 1,000
£50,000
Add-
Consideration payable to Vendors in fully-paid shares .. .. .. .. £lO,OOO
Making a total estimated issued capital of .. .. .. .. £60,000
ESTIMATED PROFITS.
Technical and printing experts connected with the proposition have carefully estimated,
on considering the capacity of the machines, that the operations of the Company’s initial unit
should result as follow:
Receipts from Printing, Publishing and Advertising during the first year
(estimated) '£65,000
Deduct therefrom estimated running costs .. .. .. .. .. .. 60,000
Leaving an estimated net profit of .. .. .. £15,000
Showing a return, after payment of preference dividend and subject to general reserves, of
slightly more than 30 per cent, per annum on Ordinary shares.
CONTRACTS.
Letters from Messrs. Seligson & Clare (Australia), Ltd., to Mr. Percy Marchant and Mrs.
Marie Dorin —28th Jan., 25th Feb. and 18th March., T 829.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION.
Copies of the Memorandum and Articles of Association may be inspected at the offices of the
Solicitors of the Company, Messrs. Alfred Rofe & Sons, Kofe’s Chambers, O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Dated- March 28, 1929.
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
ROTO-COLOUR GRAVURE CORPORATION (AUST.), LIMITED.
(Registered under the Companies Acts, N.S.W., 1899-1918.)
To the Directors,
Roto-Color Gravure Corporation (.1 list.), Limited,
c/o Messrs. Hill, Noble & Mulhall, ,
Chartered Accountants, 16 Barrack Street, Sydney.
Gentlemen:
I/We request you to allot me/us Preference/Ordinary shares of £1 each in terms of the Company’s Prospectus, dated 28th March, 1929.
I]\Ve enclose herewith the sum of (£ ) being payment of 5/- per share on the above shares.
I/We undertake to pay a further sum of 5/- per share on allotment and to pay the balance on the shares in accordance with the terms of the Prospectus.
I/lVe agree to accept the said shares or any smaller number that may be allotted to me/us, and l/we authorise you to register me/us as the holder/s of the shares so allotted.
I/We desire that the dividends on the shares allotted to me/us shall be paid to the credit of at the
and this authority to remain in force until countermanded.
NAME IN FULL
(State whether Mr., Mrs. or Miss')
ADDRESS IN FULL
OCCUPATION
SIGNATURE
Dated at
the
day of
1929.
B. 17/4/’29.


Are Your Invest-
ments ROCKY?
MORE THAN HALF
OF ALL REGISTERED
COMPANIES FAIL.
<r
ONLY THE EXPERT
CAN READ THE SIGNS
Australia’s leading ex-
pert is
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
MAY NUMBER READY THIS
WEEK.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or "Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
* # * +
Unaffected by rust or corrosion of any sort, Pioneer
Wood Pipe consistently delivers full bore flow
throughout its extremely long life. Ability to with-
stand the effects of frost and electrolysis is another
feature that, appeals to engineers. Cheaper to buy,
freight, transport and lay, it has many points of
superiority over metal pipe—and is practically" ever-
lasting. Full information is contained in an inter-
esting illustrated booklet —free on request. The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road
(near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at
Footscray, Victoria.— Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coldison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lift*
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
May’s Broadcast Fertiliser Spreader
ŵ
To Farmers and Graziers
The season is now approaching for
top-dressing your lands, and here
is the Ideal Machine for the job.
Spreads up to 40ft. 50-100 acres
per day.
SIMPLE—CHEAP—EFFECTIVE.
PRICE: £2l net f.o.r. Sydney.
For use with Spring Cart.
£2 extra for Motor-lorry attachments.
AGENTS WANTED.
AGENTS:
GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney.
INSURE WITH THE
I
Australian General
Insurance Company Ltd.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres.
including the remodelling of the main pre-
mises, which should be completed next month,
and the quieter trading conditions, due
partly to industrial disturbances and unem-
ployment, were mainly responsible for the
shrinkage of £6702 in the year's declared net
earnings. However, with an additional acre
of floor space and improved shopping facili-
ties, earnings can be expected to benefit.
Thus the prospects of substantial returns to
the parent are bright.
During the year £18.598 was added to the
book value of freeholds, and the mortgage
(£15,339 at the previous balance) was wiped
out. To do this £6693 was tacked on to the
amount coming to sundry creditors (£2B 573)
and liquids were drawn upon for the balance.
This comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows what happened :
1921. 1920. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital.. £lBO,OOO £lBO,OOO £200,000 £200,000
Liabilities .. 18,615 20,258 37,220 28,573
Freehold .. —• 84,773 103,371
Plant, etc. .. 3,449 3,557 3,038 4,237
Stock .. 34,018 31,933 39,073 38,837
Book debts .. 99,519 140,175 139,943 109,095
Investments, casli
etc. . . 11,088 9,775 7,229 7,022
Book debts, down £30,848 during the year,
reached their lowest point since 1922, and
that reflects slower trading, on the t.-p. side,
at any rate.
The profs, carry a cumulative 7} p.c., and
have priority as to capital. Last year’s re-
duced profit was more than twice their
annual requirements, and the net tangible
backing amounts to 455. per share. That is
apart from the insurance fund (£4982),
which is not included with reserves above.
The market prices the scrip at 215., at which
figure the return is 7.1 p.c.
Northcote Brick Co., Ltd. (Melb.).
To Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1921.. 10,298 7 p.c. = 9,375 923 7,297
1922.. 17,576 8} „ „ 11,250 6325 13,022
1923.. 27,254 14± „ „ 18,760 8504 22,120
Bonus from holdings, £15,470 .. .. 37,596
1924.. 22,821 14 j p.c. - 18,750 4071 41,667
Reserves capitalised, £18,750 .. .. 22,917
Bonus from holdings, £9,646 .. .. 32,653
1926.. 15,082 10 p.c. = 15,000 82 32,645
1926.. 20,835 12i „ „ 18,760 2085 34,730
1927.. 24,658 124 ~ „ 18,760 5908 40,638
1928.. 16,891 10 „ „ 15,000 1891 42,529
Bonus from holdings, £5460 .. .. 47,989
1929.. 14,985 10 p.c. = 15,000 47,974
In this class of business profits are gov-
erned largely by conditions in the building
trade, and last year was as slack as the
one it followed—indeed, slacker toward
the close of accounts because of the futile
Timber Workers’ strike. Nevertheless, the
10 P.c. div. was repeated, though it took the
whole of the year’s net earnings, and a few
pounds more, to do it.
The board wrote the year’s gross profit
(£20,555) only £726 below the 1927 figure.
The drop of £1906 in the net return was on
account of £2OOO being visibly set aside for
depreciation—it is the first time since 1924
that the allowance for wear and tear, etc.,
has been put on view ; before that, allocations
ranging from £lOOO to £3OOO p.a. were regu-
larly made. The £14,985 netted was the
poorest since the slump of eight years ago,
being 9.9 p.c. on paid capital as against
11.2, 16.4, 13.8 and 10 p.c. back to 1925.
Over the period covered by the table share-
holders have had an average of 11 p.c. p.a.,
sweetened with a small capitalisation (2s.
6d. per share) in 1924, and £47,974 of re-
serves had been accumulated to assist the
£150,000 of capital at March 31. But no
less than £30,576 of the visible lay-by repre-
sents bonus shares received on holdings in
other cos., the book value of which has
advanced from £11,345 in 1923 to £41,821,
or nearly 20 p.c. of the total assets, at the
close of last accounts. For the 12 months
to that date £5460 of gift scrip was received,
but no divs. were paid on it.
What the co.’s shareholdings and its other
interests turn in is not disclosed ; but it is
obvious that the holdings have been very pro-
fitable, and portion of the £88,552 at which
freeholds figure in the books contributes
directly to revenue, too.
Here are balance-sheet figures:—
1923. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital.. £131,250 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 2,949 4,823 2,919 3,269
Freeholds .. 101,981 88,230 88,698 88,522
Plant, etc. .. 31,122 34,725 35,536 35,539
Stocks .. 4.047 2,447 2,939 2,834
Book debts .. 3,884 11,861 11,395 9,644
Shares other cos. 11,345 36,361 36,361 41,821
Cash, etc. . . 15,196 33,060 28,026 32,382
The co. is well placed to benefit by any
improvement in trading conditions. The
more or less liquid surplus was £2150
stronger than at the previous balance, exclud-
ing shares in other cos. The drop of £1751
in book debts is mainly due to people paying
up balances on the sale of old properties.
During the last half-dozen years a lot of
money is said to have been spent on plant
with a view to reducing costs. But only
£4417 has been added to book value since
1923. The chairman gives his assurance that
all plant is in first-class order.
Despite conditions in the trade and last
year’s poorer profits, the market, which paid
235. for the scrip a year ago, now prices
the pound shares at 255. 6d. After allow-
ing for the final div. (Is.) the return at
that figure is 8.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The net asset backing amounts to 265. sd.
per share; 4s. 9d. of it is in plant.
Hitherto the Sydney Met. Water and
Sewerage Board’s financial requirements have
been rationed by the Government, but in
future the Board is to raise its own loans
and the local money market will be tapped.
It is now seeking call money at 44 p.c., and
is offering up to 54 p.c. for fixed deposits
for 24 months. The minimum amount that
will be accepted is £5OO. The terms are
attractive, and both principal and interest
are guaranteed by the Government.
* * * *
The remarkable expansion of the flotation
process continues. Complex lead-zinc-copper-
iron-sulphide ores can now be tackled with
confidence, and separate concentrates of all
metals made. By the use of chemicals such
as cyanide and zinc sulphate, undesirable
metallic minerals, such as pyrite or arsono-
pyrite, can be depressed and a cleaner, higher-
grade concentrate that can be more cheaply
treated results. The process is extending
into the field of non-metnllic minerals.
Graphite and mica are easy, and phosphate,
bauxite and fluorspar can be floated from
siliceous gangue. Barytes can also be
separated.
But tin oxide still remains unconquered.
The problem of raising a 2 p.c. copper sill-.
phide ore to a 20 p.c. copper concentrate is
much simpler than raising a 1 p.c. tin-oxide
ore to a 70 p.c. concentrate even if the two
minerals floated equally well, which they
don’t. The finding of a re-agent capable of
floating cassiterite would give a wonderful
impetus to lode tin-mining in Australia, and
would make possible the treatment of many
large pyritic tin deposits known to exist.
* * * *
Splendid progress has been made at Rose-
bery on the Tas. West Coast. The Elec-
trolytic Zinc Co. has the roof on its big
mill, which is to treat 500 tons of ore per
day from the Hercules mines. Concentrates
of some 300 tons per day are to go north
to Burnie, so that at last the Emu Bay
railway should reap some real benefit from
the mines it was built to serve nearly 30
years ago. Incidentally, both Zeehan and
Strahan will suffer severely by the loss of
E.Z. activities. Ore will be delivered the
five miles from the Hercules to Rosebery by
aerial, and this probably means the end of
the 2ft. railway from Zeehan to Williams-
ford. South of Rosebery the outlook for
the West Coast is very gloomy until you get
to Queenstown, where things are normal.
* * * *
The campaign of the geophysicists on the
West Coast of Tasmania is drawing to a
close . now winter has approached. The
organisation has been in the hands of Dr.
Bieler, of Toronto University. But at the
present stage of the science it is only pos-
sible to gauge the conductivity of the ground.
On the West Coast there are many forma-
tions comprised of magnetite, pyrrhotite,
pyrites, etc., which conduct but are quite un-
profitable. The difficulty of picking the
winner still remains, though the field has been
somewhat narrowed.
* * He *
The increase in the price of copper has
brought increased interest in Moonta as a
mining centre. The S. Aus. Minister for
Mines recently announced • that a co. is to
erect a treatment plant at Moonta to take
the ore that is too low grade to be mined
for hand-picking. But is flotation superior
to a jig and tables for a small tonnage here?
Power is an important item, and fine grind-
ing for flotation a heavy consumer.
In one respect Moonta is back where it
started. A syndicate is now engaged in un-
watering a shaft near the site of the first
discovery of green ore 70 years ago. The
water is highly mineralised, and the copper
is being removed by precipitation on scrap
iron. Recent despatches from Moonta in-
clude 180 tons of 25 p.c. copper ore and
13 tons of 80 p.c. precipitate.
* * * *
At W T ooealla (S.A.), near Pernatty’s
Lagoon, 80 miles from Port Augusta, there is
a high-grade manganese deposit awaiting de-
velopment. Apparently the deposit was
formed by the leaching of an extensive man-
ganiferous dolomite bed, the deposition of
manganese dioxide from the solution taking
place in a basin-like structure. The ore
shows at the surface as manganese-ironstone
gibbers, _ and a few feet underneath soft
dioxide is met. The ore can be hand-picked,
but this is expensive. Transport is a heavy
item—all the ore has to be bagged and taken
eight miles by donkey teams to the Trans,
line. Water is another difficulty. The ore
mined to date has come from a depth of less
than 20ft. Further down it may get harder,
which would be a great advantage from the
steel-making aspect.
Barytes, in beautifully-formed large white
crystals, also occur near the manganese de-
posits.
About five miles away is the Mt. Gunson
copper-mine. This is a sandstone bed im-
pregnated with copper-bearing solutions. It
presents a very real metallurgical problem.
The bed outcrops for several miles, and there
is no dearth of ore.
* * * *
“Batu Gajah”: Has the Hancock jig been
tried on tin dredges in competition with the
plunger type jig now so popular? If not it
should be. It has a large output, and
per square foot of space would treat more
cubic yards than the plunger type and use
50 p.c. less water. It can be very finely
adjusted, can make a very clean tailing, and
separate minerals of small specific-gravity
difference. Finally, it would consume less
power than the plunger jig. In the early
days of Broken Hill the Hancock jig was
extensively used, but the royalty charged was
excessive, and on this account it became un-
popular. It takes its name from Captain
Hancock, early-day manager at Moonta.
* * * *
Palmer River Gold Co., formed by Arthur
Clarke, of Cairns, in 1926, has at last got
in sight of the operating stage. About 200
tons of dredge plant is at Leui’a. the ter-
minus of the Cooktown railway, 80 miles
from the field. A contract for road carriage
has been let, and that job is expected to' take
12 weeks. The cost of this and of putting
uj) the dredge and of getting everything ready
for a start is expected to run away with
£SSOO. Including £5573 of uncalled capital,
the co. has £ll,OOO-odd available. There are
65,000 £1 shares issued, 22.000 of them 12}
р. cum. prefs. The co. holds 1350 acres,
and on 120 of them, at Strathleven, 3,484,000
с. estimated to be worth Is. Id. a yard,
have been measured up. There is about
seven years’ work ahead of the dredge there.
Costs are put at Od. a yard, and divs. of
3d. a month are spoken of.
* * * *
W.A. shareholders who believe they hold
a majority of the shares in the Mararoa are
angry with the directors in Adelaide for the
way they are handling negotiations for the
sale of the mine in London. In the first
place an option was given to Vail, of the
Lake View and Star, but no date of expiry
was announced officially, though it was gen-
erally believed to be about. April 21. Later
there were rumors that Vail had been granted
a working option of 18 months as from
the date of expiry of the first option. The
directors have been silent as to this also,
but the stock has been having ups and downs
on the market and someone is supposed to
be enjoying the fruits of inside information.
If there isn’t any inside information, the
fact ought to be stated.
* * * *
Directors of McCahon’s Gold Mines
(W.A.) are whooping about the value of its
Westonia show, which includes the old
flooded-out Edna May group, and in which
hundreds of thousands of tons of payable
ore are alleged to have been left. However,
in only one of the four Edna blocks —the
Central —was any extent of payable ore left
standing. Also, the mining difficulties to be
overcome at depth are likely to prove
troublesome. There is talk of raising the
additional capital the co. wants in London.
* * * *
Some of the small mining cos. which re-
cently settled in Westonia (W.A.) are trying
hard to make a market. Almost every other
day reports of “new” or “valuable” finds
are telegraphed. The “Wild Cat” regrets
that it cannot join the optimists—nothing
has been discovered in which it can see
profits.
* * * *
As consistent a gold-producer as we’ve got
in W.A. is the Radio, Southern Cross. Last
cleamup yielded 218 oz. from 55 tons. The
output is small but regular, and there are
only two shareholders to whack the profits.
* * * *
Two of Alluvial Tin’s offspring are out
with their annual figures. Changkat, which
only began producing in March last year, has
been a pronounced success, turning over
903,000 yards in the first 10 months
of its working life for 562 tons of
tin oxide, an average of over 1.391 b. per
yard at a cost of 7|d. per yard. The profit
for the period (to December 31) was
£43,345 net. A shilling div. absorbed £6500
of that, and £B5OO was written off develop-
ment account. Deductions for dredge repairs
(£1090) and depreciation (£2854) left
£24,401 to go forward.
Kundang, though a more modest proposi-
tion, came with a good run during the year
to December 31, earning a net profit of
£16,523. Thus with £9535 brought forward
there was £26,358 to cut up. A sixpenny
div. took £3125, and £9494 was written off
development account; less depreciation, etc.
(£895) this left £12,844 in hand. The dredge
turned over 1,336,000 yards in the year, and
recovered 348 tons, an average of ,581 b. per
yard. Costs were sd. per yard. Kundang
lias done a good deal better than this for
the first three months of this year, and seems
to have left its troubles behind.
* * * *
The annual report of the F.M.S. Mines
Department for 1928 shows that production
has increased rapidly during the past few
years. Last year’s output was 61,935 tons,
or 33.4 p.c. of the world’s output as against
37,650 tons for 1923, or 29.1 p.c. Further, the
January output for this year was the biggest
on record for a single month, 5556 tons. In
1910 European-owned mines turned out only
22 p.c, of the total tin oxide won. Last
year the figure was 49 p.c., largely from
dredges. Returns for January, 1929, place
the dredges ahead for the first time in
the history of the industry—s 9 p.c. as against
41 p.c. for the Chinese. Counting only those
concerns employing 100 hands and over, there
were 534 mines at work in the F.M.S. last
year, 72 being dredge shows, 46 hydraulic,
17 open, cast, 383 gravel pump, three shaft
sinking on alluvial and 13 lode propositions.
Of the dredges working 19 are Australian-
built; Britain heads the list with 50. In
January of this year 89 dredges were at work
and 20 others in course of construction. Six-
teen years ago only two werk employed,
one at the English Malayan Tin Co.’s
holding (it is still working) and the other
at Tronoh. another British show. It
is curious that the report should have over-
looked the Australian-owned Tongkah Har-
bor dredge, which was operating 21 years
ago, and was the first to set up in the East.
* * afc A


For Architects, Builders, Surveyors, Civil Engineers, Shire and
Council Engineers; and to all others who take a pride in keeping their
drawings in good condition.
63
&
*— >
......
.
9 *
C a
Standard allsteel Plan Cabinets,
9 Drawers, which can be added to
or reduced as you may desire.
II
w
0 0
m
■■■ :".v
II
f/ff/I
We invite your inquiries for these. Our representative will call upon
you and give all particulars. They are made in our factory by
Australian workmen from Australian steel. We guarantee all our
steel products.
Forsters Bedsteads Ltd
MARY ANN STREET, ULTIMO, SYDNEY.
’PHONE: M 4247 (3 lines).
£3
it 1
iH
1 If W
t S mfm
imtm
V 'T: twm*
f ->f y&tL * •
More Light Than 20 Old Style Oil Lamps!
300 candle-power of pure-white brilliance! An abundance of natural,
healthful light for every use all over the house. That’s what the
Quick-Lite gives! More and better light than 20 old-style oil lamps.
Cheaper to Use, Too!
The Quick-Lite is a real money-saver. You can buy and pay for a Quick-Lit*
and use it a whole year for less than the fuel-cost alone for an old oil lamp
Coleman Quick-Lite
“The Sunshine o f the Night ’’
Price 75/-
The Coleman Company are the largest manufacturers
in the world of petrol lamps, lanterns, irons, stoves,
radiators and high-power mantles.
For Your Next Trip!
rtunnnmunninim^iita
We’ve got just the stove you’ll
want for your next camping,
touring, fishing or hunting trip!
It’s the Coleman—the Camp
Stove years ahead! Makes
camp cooking a real pleasure
instead of a hard job.
(pieman
Gjhb
S+ove
The “Coleman” has
many new features that
will interest you. Every-
thing built-in—Hot-blast
Generator that gives
full cooking heat in 2
minutes; Swinging Fuel
Tank; Built-in Pump,
Oven, Wind Baffles and
Wa rmi n g Cabinet.
Cooks anything you
want, any style. Fuel is
common motor gaso-
line. Folds up like a
suitcase. Come in and
see it.
Price complete with Oven . . . . £4/4/-
Price complete with Oven and
Collapsible Stand . . . . dCS/2/6
COLEMAN QUICK-LITE CO. OF AUS.,
185 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
31 Bower Building, Charles Street, Adelaide, S.A.
718 Harris Street, Ultimo, Sydney, N.S.W.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL SUPPLIES, LTD.,
Bowen Street, Brisbane, Queensland.


Twin Ignition for Race Motors
Aero Motor s — and now
for the Motor Car
m
ft
ONE of the most important motor-car engineering achieve-
ments of the year is the perfection by Nash of the Twin -
ignition , high-compression , valve-in-head motor for the
motor car .
It gives to the new Nash “400” greater power, quicker acceleration,
greater speed, with less petrol—the same remarkable performance
which already has made twin-ignition , high-compression> valve-in-
head motors supreme in racing and in aeronautics.
It is practically an engineering impossibility to have the benefits
of twin-ignition in the L-head motor. It is possible in the valve-in-
head motor, and Nash alone has taken this great step forward.
Drive the new Twin-ignition-motored Nash “400,” and you will
never again be satisfied with the performance of older types of
motors.
THE NEW
NASH'4f(Dr
$
m
C
1
m.
W
TZ
ft
u
m
k
w
a
a
ft
c
3^
t 2/
4»
IU?.
JpA
<r
Ns
«r
W
Avio
a
7
Q
©
9502)
3^
T >urers.
Standard Six from £375
Special Six £4BO
Advanced Six £63o*
body.
Sedans.
£4so* (2-door) £470 (4-door)
£565* (2-door) £5BO (4-door)
£62o* (2-door) £635 (4-door)
Distributors for New South Wales:
WILLSFORD, LTD.,
132-134 Phillip Street,
SYDNEY.
’Phones: 8W2291 (5 lines).
Distributors for Victoria and Tasmania:
RICKARDS BROS. PTY., LTD.,
567-573 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
’Phone: F 3114.
Distributors for Queensland and Northern Rivers:
PEELS, LTD.,
407-431 Stanley Street,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
’Phone: J 1561.
Distributors jor South Australia and Broken Hill
AUTOCARS, LTD.,
58-72 Flinders Street,
ADELAIDE.
'Phone: Central 5500.
Distributors for West Australia:
ERIC MADDREN MOTORS, LTD.,
996 Hay Street,
PERTH.
’Phones: 85610, 87634.
TASMANIAN DEALERS:
THE SERVICE CO. OF TASMANIA, 166 Brisbane Street, Launceston.
E. MEERMANN, 135 Bathurst Street, Hobart
BENNETT & GILBERT, Best Street, Devonport


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets.
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic r*isk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
Iaa^CSSS
THE GREYS
SIZEoTWO
SILK CUT VIRGINIA J
They Satisfy
because they are made from 100
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys”
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a “GREYS.”
muir JL9
I® for ®cL CIGARETTES 2® for 1/®
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights”
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20.
Depend On
Wunderlich Quality
Wunderlich Metal Ceilings
Wunderlich Roofing fles
Wunderlich “Durabestos” Building
Sheets
Wunderlich Metal Shopfronts
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
For Fori 3) Years, Manujaclurers of Quality
Products for Ceilings, Walls,
ABORIGINAUTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Hamer”: Sydney has had a visitor who
once took part in a cannibal feast. lie is a
French trader who has been many years
in the New Hebrides. He was elected
chief of the Biguatnba tribe when it
fell short of leaders, and, gladly taking
ENCOURAGING.
BASHFUL SHEIK: “I suppose I’m only
a pebble on your beach?”
SOPHISTICATED FLAPPER: “Too right;
but if you were a little boulder
you might make quite a hit with
me!’
the opportunity of picking up hitherto
unavailable trade, he went across lo take
possession. A cannibal feast was part of
the celebrations, and, as death was the
alternative to participation, he picked a bone
with his subjects.
“Timor'’: After leading a sybaritic life in
the river bends for three months, Peter had
been run into the yards, and was trotting
round full of good feed and impudence, and
as glossy as a top hat. He's not an outlaw,
but takes a bit of sitting after a spell. I
caught him without difficulty, but when ho
felt the saddle he stretched like a cat, beliy
not a foot from the ground, and snorted.
As I went to mount, the
odds were 6 to 4 on me.
Before I was in the
saddle lie started rooting,
and I stabbed for the off-
side iron ; stabbed all too
well, and my right foot
went completely through
the stirrup (with a mali-
son on the bootmakers
who fit low heels to rid-
ing boots). Peter was
now going well, with the
odds 4 to 1 on him. I
kicked my left foot out
of the iron and balanced
desperately, as I was
hopelessly tangled in the
off-side iron. Through
my mind’s eye flashed a
sight I had seen as a
kiddy—a horse trotting
quietly up to the yard,
drag g i n g something
ragged and dusty and
bloody that had once been
a man. Miraculously I
stayed there, and Peter
stopped kicking. With
infinite care 1 disengaged
my right leg, placed both
feet firmly in the irons
and settled myself in the
saddle. It was now 4 to
1 nil me, and I booted him joyously and dofi-
antly in the ribs. In reply he threw me two
feet in the air, and I fell clear and safe.
These odds-on chances sometimes do get
upset.
* * * *
“Shylock”: I don’t know why lead should
kill printers’ cats. The cat in our bank
survived gold. Her haunt was the base-
ment, where we weighed new sovereigns in-
stead of counting them. The custom was
to count one bag of 500 and spill the other
bags into the scales to prove an equal weight.
Quite an appreciable quantity of gold-dust
must have been cast off at every tally, for. to
our amazement, the black-and-white puss
gradually took on a black and yellow appear-
ance. Eventually she became a decided
tortoise-shell. She died some time after
sovereigns ceased to serve as currency, but it
was neither the gold-dust nor. the lack of it
that killed her. An autopsy revealed a length
of red tape in her innards. This was iden-
tified as the binding from a bundle of notes.
They tell me cats in pieshops will eat nothing
at all, but I only know about banks.
* * s *
“Mullarula” : Since the Wyndham district
has been brought into prominence by the
disappearance of the Southern Cross, a
writer in one of the daily papers has been
reviving the old myth about the Australian
INHUMAN, ALMOST!
TIRED WILFRED: “Is farm work ’ard, ’Erb?”
LANGUID HERBERT: “Well, it is on some farms. I’ve seen ’em where a bloke’d ’ave
ter walk ’arf a mile ter find a patch er shade ter lie down in.”
abo. being a cannibal. This time the libel
has been attached to the natives of the Kim-
berley district. Mistaken ideas on the subject
originated in the practice among some tribes
of eating parts of deceased friends as a token
of respect, or perhaps as a religious rite.
If the tiny portion which each person ate
at one of these ceremonies qualifies him or
her as a cannibal, then every person who
sips wine at communion can be called a
boozer. Not that I would care to eat even
the smallest morsel of deceased abo., but
then I’ve always been fussy about my food.
* * * *
“Hyandry”: Old Bill’s horse was nearly
as old as his master, who wanted to trade
him for a better prad. One day a traveller
arrived on a worn-out mount. “Have you
got a nag to trade for this?” he asked.
“Yes,” replied Bill, “that old grey there.
His knees are gone and one eye’s blind.”
The stranger mounted and cantered up the
road. The grey stumbled, toppling the rider
in the dust. The stranger brought him back.
“I’ll take him,” he said. Amazed, Bill said:
“As a man to man—why are you taking
him?” “He picks himself up,” said the new-
comer ; “I’ve got to lift mine.”
* * * *
“Davus”: Even more disconcerting than
Jonah’s adventure with the whale was the
experience of a lusty young rooster on a
poultry farm in the Mount Morgan district.
The farmer heard a commotion in the fowl
pen, but couldn’t discover the cause. Next
morning when he visited the pen he was
confronted by a 13ft. carpet snake which
showed a distinct bulge in its anatomy.
Reprisals followed quickly, and a post-
mortem brought to light a young rooter
bathed in saliva (or whatever it is that
snakes use to wet their throttles), but alive,
It soon recovered and crowded as lustily
as ever.
* * * *
“Sebrof”: I put my cross in front of the
crow’s name when it comes to a vote on
intelligence or intuitive powers of birds.
During lambing operations, while mooching
round the paddock shortly after daylight, I
saw one of the ewes down with a new-born
lamb. While the mother was too weak to
move I saw a crow pulling the lamb away by
its tail to get it out of reach of the sense-
less parent. When I rushed over to drive the
bird off, it flew over to another ewe that I
had been tending, and picked an eye out
before I could do anything.
* * * *
“Mullarula”: Why is it that ants cannot
find their way into a wheeled vehicle? Some
bushmen believe that they wander round and
round the wheel till they ,fall exhausted, but
I have an idea that the grease which they
would have to cross to get from the wheel
to the axle is the obstacle. I was in a camp
once where the little black ants of the pine
flats were so thick that we had to shift our
beds three or four times in a night as they
found us, and everything which we ate was
Avell flavored with ant. A tin of jam, once
open, became uneatable in half an hour, and
every crack in the corned beef held half a
dozen or so of the little pests. Then we
remembered tile old wheel theory, and after
we had placed everything in an old waggon-
ette, with a jigger rigged to keep the end
of the pole clear of the ground, the ant
problem was solved as far as the tucker was
concerned. I have since found that borax,
mixed into a paste of sugar and water, will
rid any camp of the little black fellows.
>]: * * #
There is a superstition amongst
bushmen that timber from a tree that has
been struck by lightning won’t burn. I
haven’t had the chance to test that, but l
know that a tree set alight by lightning
will burn. At Coleraine (Vic.) a few weeks
ago a Finns insignis in the local park was
struck during a thunderstorm about 40ft
from the ground, and ignited. The fire gradu-
ally worked down the trunk of the tx-ee. At
time of wi’iting it lias worked to the roots.
* * * *
“Claude W,”: In one year the Common-
wealth _ Govei’nment launched over 400
bottles in the Southern Indian Ocean to
determine the course and rate of flow of
that ocean’s currents. Only 86 of these
were recovered. One was thrown into the
sea off Cape Horn, and from there it made
its way to Ashanti, on the west coast of
Africa, having travelled a distance of 5350
miles at the rate of 10 miles per day. The
longest drift on record is that of a bottle
which travelled a distance of 6000 miles
from Carolina (U.S.A.) to the Nassau
Islands. The fastest drift was achieved
by a bottle which raced from Newfoundland
to the Elbe River, in Germany, 2400 miles,
at the rate of 26 miles per day.
* * * *
“Larrapinta”: On the road between Cum-
mins and Koppio (Eyre Peninsula, S.A.)
recently 1 pulled to the side of the road
to let a mob of sheep go past, and saw, 100
yards behind the two drovers, a Chew car
crawling along in bottom gear without a
drivei’. The deep ruts in the sandy track
were keeping it on its course, and it followed
every turn and twist, its owners hardly
bothering to glance back to see how the car
was faring.
* * * *
“Half-moon”: In the humid months
scorpions are plentiful in tropical Queensland.
A black variety is particulai’ly venomous.
Certain abo. tribes on Cape York Peninsula
vaccinate themselves against the effect of its
venom. They scratch their skins with the
sharp hard tail of the insect and squeeze
into the scratch the contents of the venom
bag, also situated in the tail. Thereafter
the sting- of any scorpion is no worse than
a pinprick. The vaccine is effective for
at least a year.
(Continued on page 25.)
THE BARDS OF THE OPEN SPACES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Do the poets who sing with a jubilant ring
to the glories of wide open spaces
Ever tackle the track with a swag on their
back whilst the wind blows from Ilell
on their faces?
Would the chappies who crave in stanza and
stave for the freedom of living where
timber grows tall
Forsake pretty posy and jobs that are cosy
to try to make tucker with crosscut
and maul?
With frenzy they're fired when their poems
are inspired by the call of the wild in
their blood.
But what would they say if they saw a
year’s pay go west in the ruinous swirl
of a flood?
In rhythmical flights they portray the
delights of life where the stockmen go
roving;
They know little, I bet, of the dust, flies and
sweat in that hell of a job they call
droving.
Oh, they lilt a refrain to the gulden-topped
grain, rural life is their only desire.
Would they swallow a sob and stick to the
job if they saw all their crops swept
by fire?
Though in fancy they’re free, I think they’re
like me, these bards who are always
lamenting their lot.
You'll find them close in to the city’s loud
din and washing the counter-lunch down
with a pot!
N.S.W.
D. McM.


•'•:-c:<-:U?t:: : : ; ::i‘:T4¥: : : : :r:% : : : : : : : : ; >* ; : ; : ; :-^Vs <: :->; : : : : : :<'; : : : :!
y-x;-;-
I
-v;
F :::
L
‘tv.r'N;
r*s<i
op^-
*
Hr 1
*lhp
;Llf* ■/*
WCV'
A-V
rfAV/.VJ
,v.?.v.%w.v:,vjvaviV.va;
av.-.v.v.v.v/.'iVvw.v.vm&vv
/jV.VAV.
av.v&v.
1
pVAyc
vav.-aw
»v.v
i
i»
.W.ViX
H
r.V.Vv
P
las
.\Y.V»-
V.Y.W.V.
fepp
.•.vr.v
A-vSv'
■:■•*.'.•'
-Y.Y>s <^'
/-'•"•A-
-sfe&S
SIiSS?
13
«K/.%sffiajswaj
-V.-
Sac:
iSSSi
«AS
JCvlvlv>Xv^r.v)H^7i^V^
11 Ml
v.wh\W&v*%vsass>®S
itglSlp!
(V.V.V-V^SSiVj.ViV’/^jviV
BsaE^vasßsssfea
ViY-v
YiYwYV.V.-.Y.'.-IVftY.Y..
W&wm®
k !
.y;VA
©
;Yj,;.;.;.;.^K;v
H
VA
WiV.
I
Sb
®SB
.J s_s
W\ T
==_ jJKr.v.'Sff?,%sfc \
s-
=: • «-v» -AWA.f
vvAv-y
iV-V.V.
.yA'.jaww.
©
WBffl
Y.v,
.--V.
Sflf
Sasa
SK*
SS/:
£5
jRfSa!
<®6
tr
-~x
2
rm
ftro
fS-'HS
HARDY’S
WINES
of
T INTAR A
HARDY’S TINTARA WINES (Gold Label) are 70 years of age, of fine bouquet and maturity. Extracted from the
rich grapes of the chosen lands of South Australia, there is no better wine in the world’s markets. When you call for
Hardy’s Champion Reserve Port you are sure of age, maturity, quality, and the price is within the reach of all and not more
than that of other wines.


NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blastinsr Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
J-J ADFIELDS
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS —GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadtields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and ) Alexandria, Svdney, N.S.W.
Foundries 1 Bassendean. Perth. W.A.
Branch
Office
( 422 Collins Street. Melbourne. Vie.
S T. & G. Building, Brisbane. Q
*
.e-r &
S* .■&
',#W' . c>>°
<£>'
ra*
Vv ~«y <>"
JK
Se> >■> #VVv* *■*
4*v:vv> o to
V> jte-j&a? *
N»>
<3
v
*\ e
.V
<v
ẃ
m
THAT NEW CHUM AGAIN.
DAD: “Did yer bring them apples from the station?”
NSWEHUM : “No; yer name was on them, bid the porter
told me they was Granny Smith’s.”
“Hyandry” : About 30 years ago three men
yarded brumbies at Cape Murra and drove
them to Moree 40 miles away. The brum-
bies never broke from a trot —they could
not. Their ears had been pierced and a
string rnn through both, flattening them
against the mane and beneath the neck. It
is a simple method, and I’d like to know how
it was discovered.
*** * *
“Nitric”: Many bushmen and some biolo-
gists consider the
poison glands of
the platypus are
mer e 1 y vestigial
and that the spurs
situated at the
back of each foot
do not funct on. A
fisherman on the
Mann TRiver. Glen
I nues (N.S.W.),
can give conclusive
evidence against
these theories. He
recently hooked a
platypus and while
detaching it was
scratched on the
arm. The arm be-
came so swollen in
a short time that
the sleeve of his
coat had to be
ripped and he was
sent to hospital.
The scratch may
have proved fatal
had not medical
treatment been
available. Th
spurs of the male
platypus are hol-
low and connect
with a gland which
secretes a thick
poisonous fluid. It
is only quite re-
cently that the
function of these
spurs has be e n
established by bio-
logists they are
definitely offensive
weapons, and the
whole structure of
poison gland and
spur is analogous
to that of a snake.
The young female
platypus also pos-
sesses a rudimen-
tary spur which later disappears.
* * *
“Pigcat”: I take these yarns about shark-
killing with more than a couple of grains
of salt. The job of plunging a knife into
the body of a shark and ripping it open is
dead easy on paper. But just try to do it
with a dead shark on land. Take an ordi-
nary butcher’s knife, reasonably sharp, and
attempt to plunge it into the shark’s body.
Unless you are remarkably strong or strike
a lucky spot you won’t make a puncture.
It takes considerable hacking and hewing to
get through the armor- which is the shark’s
skin. If the job is that hard when the
shark is still and dead, what must it be when
a man is juggling with a lively monster
in the water, with fractions of a second in
which to turn and little room in which to
strike?
* * « *
“Bad Australian”: If those swaggies who
carried snake and goanna meat in their nose-
bags really ate the mephitic
lizard, they should be well
and truly disinfected, taken
out to sea and sunk out-
side the three-mile limit.
When opened the goanna
emits a bouquet like that
surrounding a highly-in-
censed skunk in an over-
crowded tropica] boneyard
in the wet season. I have
seen Black Brother ban-
quet i n g on practically
everything from white ants
to crocodile cutlets, but I
never saw him tackle the
big yellow and black lizard.
I know that it is generally
believed that Jacky is a
whale on go’ meat, but it
will require very conclusive
evidence to convince me
that this belief is correct.
As far as white men are
concerned, even that omni-
vorous feeder Captain Wil-
liam Dampier baulked at
the go’. Bill wrote: “I
have eaten of snakes, cro-
codiles and alligators and
many creatures that look
frightfully enough, and
there are but few I should
have been afraid to eat of,
if prest by hunger, yet I
think my stomach would
scarce have serv’d to venture upon these N.
Holland Guanos, both the looks and smell of
them being so offensive.”
“Pfella”: A Groperland nor’-western
romance was about to culminate in the mar-
riage of Mollie,- the squatter’s daughter, to
Jim Woolbales, the son of a neighbor, and
events had reached the stage when only the
parson was awaited. Bullswool. the station
nmsr r, had b en sent with the buckboard to
collect the padre from his residence along
NOTHIN’ NEW-FANGLED ’BOUT ’E!
THE PARSON'S WIFE: “Really, Mr. Cobblcdick, it’s wonderful
the way you make things grow with all the pests! I’m
sure you must have a flair for that sort of thing.”
EZHA COBBLEDICK: “No, Missus! I don’t. I just use a’ ordinary
lantern wi’ a bit o’ taller-candle.”
the coast. Together t]ie pair drove in the
morning heat until the parson felt the need
of speech. “Well, Bullswool,” he said,
“what you bin think of Mollie Sheepsliorn
getting married to Jim Woolbales?” “What
me bin think!” exclaimed the abo. with a
tinge of bitterness. “Me bin think it bad
luck for Mollie she not bin born a gin.”
“Why?” asked the surprised minister. “Be-
cause 7 blanky well marry her meself then,”
declared Bullswool.
* * * *
“Pick”: With the sudden and complete
disappearance of
the native cat from
the southern table-
lands of N. S.
Wales, a long-held
theory went awry.
It had been claimed
by the highlanders
that the ferocious
little spotted
marauders would
stall off the rabbit
inroads that were
devastating other
districts. When the
first bunnies ap-
peared on the
plateau in ’B6, and
for a time seem-
ingly failed to in-
crease, it was con-
fi den 11 y believed
that the cats had
commenced the
business of outing
them, and the de-
tested dasyure
came into popular
favor. Then in
the early ’nineties
waves of rabbits
surged over the
horizon, and in a
few months the
cats had vanished.
Throughout the region where once they
caroused in thousands a cat has not been
seen for decades.
* * * *
“Hamer’’: The brusli-turkey looks ‘ after
the welfare of his future offspring in a
manner which shows a touch of the scientist
—it is the male that is worried, the hen
being a feckless, gadding creature who thinks
she has done her full duty in laying the eggs.
The male bird visits the incubator-mound
regularly, scratches a hole in the side and
then presses the wattles of his neck into
the opening. Reacting to the heat inside,
the wattles redden and distend and Mr.
Brush judges by this thermometer whetbei
the internal heat is sufficient. If it isn't, he
gets busy with his feet and scratches, on a
few more blankets of earth and leaves, giving
a call to his missus to lend a leg. If she
fails to come promptly, the male bird gives
her a lesson in motherly duty. '
* * * *
“lluffin-Guffin”: If the ancestors of the
Australian-bred rabbit as we know him
arrived as long ago as 1860, it was quite a
long time before Bunny got very far away
from his original home. In 1875 the rabbit
was such a novelty in the Glenelg River
country (Western Vic.) that Richard Brown
Broughton, of Harrow, would not allow any-
body to shoot rabbits on his property. In a
few years, however, he was spending large
sums for rabbit extirpation. The first "pro-
fessional” rabbiters in the district, came from
Colac about 1880. It was agreed by the
profession that Colac was them about the
only “payable” rabbit country in Victoria.
* + * *
“Sap”: “You blokes don’t know what a
narrer squeak is,” remarked Bill to those of
urt who had been swapping war experiences.
“I bet none of yer had as many close squeaks
as me the night I dashed across Circular
Quay in Sydney. Men yelled an’ women
fainted when they saw me, one second under
a horse’s hoof, the next climbin’ over the
bonnet of a car, then escapin’ an oncomin’
tram by the skin of me teeth.” “Yes,” said
one of the crowd encouragingly, “you cer-
tainly had some mighty narrow shaves that
night.” “Oh, they was nuthin’,” snorted
Bill. “What I wanta tell yer is that I only
just got inside the pub as the clock was
strikin’ six.”
* * * *
“Burra”: A battle royal that I was for-
tunate enough to witness between a huge
black snake and a goanna ended strangely.
Both were unaware of my presence, and the
brawl had raged for quite a time before
the snake, catching its adversary at a
momentary disadvantage, seized it by the
jaws and started to swallow it. But the
goanna was far from finished, and proceeded
to give the snake the biggest and last sur-
prise of its lift'. With a tremendous effort
it opened its jaws to their fullest extent, and
the sides of the snake’s mouth split for quite
an inch on both sides. It lay writhing and
helpless on the ground, and the goanna set
about finishing off its conquered foe.
ff :|s * *
“Eureka” Jacky sold the traveller a dog
for 10s. “What about a receipt for him?”
the traveller asked. “Don’t you worry about
a seat, for, that old dog, boss.” .Tacky replied
earnestly; “that dog make himself comf’abje
anywhere.”
* * * *
“Pcekill”: The vet. was called to the farm
to diagnose a complaint among the bullocks.
He discovered the trouble to be one of a
nature necessitating inoculation. The method
of doing this was to soak some lengths of
TIME, THE GREAT ARTIST.
“I was just as slim an’ graceful as you, yer young hussy! Why,
when that whale was tattooed, it was only a sardine!”
darning wool in a serum, pass it through the
tail of the animal and leave it there. There
was no suitable wool on the farm, and-he
went back to town to get some. At a store
he requested to be shown some darning wool.
The girl showed him several samples, but
none was suitable. “Perhaps if you told me
what you wanted it for I might bo able to
assist you,” she suggested. Drawing himself
up to his full height, and with a serious face
he spoke in loud, deliberate tones, “I —want
—it —to—thread —through— bulls' —tails.” It
was 10 minutes before he could convince the
startled girl that lie was neither mad nor
joking. .
THE PEGASUS COLT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I bought a moke from a long haired bloke.
When my old packhorse died:
And the horse I bought was a decent sort
Except for his flamin’ hide.
It was kinder loose, and it hung in flaps,
But it fitted him here and there ;
And the bloke remarked he was Pegasus-
sired,
And out of a Biplane mare.
“But to catch him,” he said, “you’ll find* it
hard,
Unless you hobble him tight,
And tie his head to his offside leg,
When you’re turnin’ him loose at night.
Better put a couple of side-lines on,
Then lock him up in a slu'd,
And I hope you’ll find him a handy colt,”
That long-haired burglar said.
So I slung my pack on the loose-skinned
frame.
And he made the pace like a toff,
And at night I hobbled him fore and aft,
And side-lined, near and off.
In a bonser camp on Skeleton Creek
With grasses up to his knee;
And I goes to bed well pleased with the world
And the Pegasus colt and me.
Next morning I cursed the Pegasus colt
That was out of a Biplane mare;
Though my hack was plainly in sight of
camp,
The slack-skinned moke wasn’t there.
So I quickly swallowed a drink of tea,
And I climbed aboard of tin* hack,
And 1 hunted and searched through all the
day,
But I found no trace nor track.
Then I asked a swagman from Murdered
Dog,
And he scratched awhile at his head.
Then, “No,” he answered, “I ain’t set eyes
On no four-legged quadruped
Then looking up said, "Strike me flat!
Wot’s that up that blue-gum tree?
Though I ain’t had a drink for a month or
more.
It looks like a horse to me.”
I lost my breath as I gazed on high,
And the zephyrs blew through me,
As I watched him spread his loose hide out,
And drift to another tree.
Then by-and-bye we watched him fly
Towards the place where the sun goes
down ;
So I carried my pack to Murdered Dog
Where I sold it for half a crown.
And I’m searching now for the long-haired
bloke
Who has given me such a jolt.
I have done my cash and I’ve done my pack,
Ati<l T Kf>pm to hnvc done the colt.
And as soon as I meet that blasted bloke
I’m for jobbing him fair and square.
But —I wish I had anchored the Pegasus
moke
That was out of the Biplane mare.
N.S.w.
PEGLEG.


OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
To buy set tracing-boards for newly-
formed Masonic lodge, Q’lnnd. —9822.
To buy copy “Newspaper Building,” by
Jason Rogers.—9B26.
To buy quartette record (disc) “Dreams
of Galilee,” and book, “One Crowded Hour.”
—9776.
To buy copy “Tales of the Convict Sys-
tem,” by “Price Waning.”—99ol.
To buy correspondence course on show-
card lettering and designing, (To A. N.
Anderson, Soldiers’ Hostel, Broken Hill.)
To hear from breeders of Border-collie
dogs (N.5.W.).—9772.
Words and music of song with line “Cap-
tain, art tha sleeping there below?” (To
A. It McMullen, l’ericoe, via Bombala,
N.S.W.).
Words (English) of “La Donna e
Mobile.” (To F. Sheldon Stringer, Bauple,
Tiaro, N.C. line, Q.)
Whereabouts of Charles Wade, road con-
tractor, working Sydney or Melbourne. (To
Arthur Baker, post oflice, Renmark, S.A.)
Gentlewoman will give light services in
return good home and small remuneration,
country (N.S.W.). Assist minding children,
sewing. References. —9764.
By married couple (Q’land), station
work, or dairy farm on half-shares, both
experienced workers. —9741.
By young lady, position on Queensland
station, where mother also could be
employed.—9BoB.
Nurse, English, would like position as
companion or children’s nurse on voyage to
England in return for passage-money. High-
est refs. —9806.
Young man (24), Sydney, eight years’ ex-
perience, wants job as carpenter.—9Bos.
By Victorian (28), position of trust
anywhere, secretary preferred; public
speaker, linguist, musician—piano, flute,
piccolo, banjo, organ.—9B2s.
Bachelor, interested in psychology, wishes
to correspond with readers, both sexes.—97B7.
Queenslander (27), 10 years’ experience
grocer, good ticket-writer, wants' j0b.—9821.
Young man (20) requires work any-
where in Australia, Fiji or elsewhere. Can
drive horses, car or tractor; good education,
some clerical experience.—9837.
Position secretary and companion to in-
valid gentleman wanted by middle-aged man,
quiet disposition, total abstainer, extensive
medical experience; can drive car. —9833.
Investor to assist inventor placing on
market new method of generating steam. —
9895.
By typist, Sydney, miscellaneous spare-
time work, moderate rates. —9906.
Maorilander (20), well educated, wants
position as jackeroo N.S.W. sheep ’ station.
—9914.
Jackeroo (22), G.P.S. education, six
years’ experience sheep, mixed farming,
wants job sheep station, N.S.W.; knowledge
cars, tractors. —-9889.
Young man, Nauru, wants position on
steamer. (To Peter D. Aiwa, Nauru, Cen-
tral Pacific.)
Young man (21) wants work, N.S.W.
Experienced farm and station; can drive
and repair cars.—9SSo.
Queenslander (29), married, one child,
wants position of trust; experienced sheep,
cattle, sugar-farming, book-keeping; go any-
where provided family accommodated. —
9883.
Young man (22) wants job jackeroo
sheep station, N.S.W. or Q., four years’
experience ; refs. —9867.
By man with own car, travelling N.Q.
town, agency for draperies, particularly
dress lengths.—97sB.
Young man (26), experienced motor engi-
neering, small electrical plants, telephone
construction and maintenance, wants posi-
tion Pacific Islands or Malay States, —9851.
By clergyman’s son (30), Vic., married,
ticket writer in N.S.W., 10 years experience,
position as station book-keeper. Refs. —
9909.
By returned soldier, stretch of rabbiting
country, trapping, poisoning. (To E. H.
Harris, Duckmaloi, Oberon, N.S.W.)
Information Sought.
I have shaves in the Green Taxi Cabs,
Ltd., Sydney, which has gone into liquida-
tion. f have written to the co.’s office.,
Kembla Buildings, Sydney, and got no reply.
(1) Is there any likelihood of a liquidation
dividend? (2) How much? (3) Address of
the liquidator? —97BB.
(1) Y'es. (2) The liquidation has now
proceeded far enough to permit of a fore-
cast that 3s. per share will be paid. (3)
The liquidator is L. W. Lee, c/o Smith and
Waddington, Parramatta-road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
In its “Wild Cat." review of the A.M.P.’s
annual report it is implied that a person
carrying an Industrial policy could transfer
to the Ordinary. (1) Is that right? (2) Is
any loss sustained in so doing? —97s3.
(1) Yes. (2) If a person, after effecting
an Industrial policy, finds he can pay at the
office in quarterly, half-yearly or yearly
instalments instead of weekly, he will be
given an adequate rebate. If he desires to
convert his Industrial to an Ordinary policy
he will be conceded terms computel actuari-
ally on an equitable basis. In plain terms,
the Industrial policy-holder pays more for
the benefits he is to get because he has to
provide the heavy cost of collecting his
premiums; and the office is ready to give lain
the benefit of the saved expenses.
(1) Where can 1 buy an annuity in Aus-
tralia? (2) Is there any risk of losing one's
money? (3) Would payment be affected by
any other money one might have? (4) What
wouhl be the annuity one 58 years of age
could buy for £l<XM). ; ' (5) Is there any fee
to pay when buying.—99os.
(1) From almost any life-assurance office.
(2) No, not if you choose your oflice wisely.
There are about half a dozen with which
you can’t go wrong. (3) No. (4) Varies
a little; about £B4 a year for a male and £77
for a female, both payable quarterly. (5)
No.
Where in N.S.W. could I learn how to
test cows and pigs for tuberculosis? —9719.
In a veterinary school, such as in the
University of Sydney—nowhere else. Accord-
ing to the Stock Diseases Act, “No person
except a registered veterinary surgeon or a
person authorised in’writing under the hand
of the Chief Veterinary Surgeon shall sub-
ject any animal to a test involving the use
of tuberculin.”
Recipe for an office paste? —9sB4.
Wheat flour, 10oz.; rice flour, 8oz.; traga-
canth, 20z.; water, Gpts. Make a paste
with the tragacanth and part of the water;
make archer. ”«ing heat, of the flours and
water; then mix.
(1) Is it possible in N.S.W. to learn wool-
classing by post? (2) .4 good book on the
subject, and price? —9BsB.
(1) Sydney Technical College conducts a
correspondence course; fee, £2 2s. (2)
“Classing the Clip,” by C. E. Cowley, 155.,
Angus and Robertson.
A suitable aboriginal name for a house
on a point or rise overlooking a lake? —
9811.
Coolamatong (“water near a hill”), Doon-
kuua (“rising”), Kcelbubban (“sound of
rippling water”), Woorabinda (“camp at a
deep watcrhole”), “Illnlangi” (“camp on a
hill”), Binalong (“towards the high place”),
Attunga (“a high place”).
My black pug-dog is continually scratch-
ing and rubbing himself, though he is
free from vermin and sores. Cause and cure?
9671.
Apparently he has a form of eczema,
probably of dietetic origin.. Cut out bis-
cuits, cake and the like, and restrict him to
meat, milk, or vegetables and gravy. Wash
the dog occasionally in warm soap solution,
with a little kerosene. If bare patches
appear, rub in a little storaxol ointment and
repeat in three days.
(1) What constitutes a city in N.S.W.?
(2) Names of N.S.W. cities? —9368.
(1) A municipality, to be proclaimed a
city, must have had for five years an average
population of not fewer than 20,000, and an
average annual gross income of not less than
£20,000. Also it must be an independent
centre of population—not a suburb. (2) Syd-
ney, Newcastle, Goulburn, Bathurst, Broken
Hill and Grafton.
An Australian (former Sydney man )
residing in the TJ.S.A. bought some Aus-
tralian Commontcealth “dollar stock." lie
is about to return to Australia and wants
to know whether he should sell the stock
first, fearing that in Australia he will be
liable to income-tax. Is this Australian
“dollar stock" liable to N.S.W. or Common-
wealth income-tax if held in N. S. Wales?
—9BlO.
No; income from the stock in question is
not subject to either Federal or State income-
tax.
Is the Performing Rights Association in
Victoria in order in making a charge to
promoters of dances for charitable or club
objects for playing certain dance music such
as “Ramona” ? —9418.
The association is entitled to charge fees
for the performance at public entertainments
of any musical works, of which it controls the
performing right. The dance number you
mention may not lawfully be performed in
public without license from the association.
In the case of charitable objects where all
services are gratuitous it is customary to
grant permits free of charge.
How can I eradicate elm suckers which are
damaging a lawn? The tree has been re-
moved, but the suckers are constantly show-
ing growth, —942s.
Procure a tin of arsenical weed-destroyer
(from any seed merchant) and dilute with
20 volumes of water. Cut the suckers off
near the ground. Place some cotton wool in
the eye of a bag needle, soak in the solution
and insert in the cut surface of the sucker.
Any more wholesale application would affect
the lawn. The solution is poisonous, and
extreme care should be exercised in handling
it.
(1) Has there ever been snow at Too-
woomba, Queensland, and if so, at what
date? (2) Also on Mt. Glorious, near Bris-
bane?—9s49.
(1) There have been many light snowfalls.
On July 23, 1897, there was a heavy fall
which lasted about half an hour. On July 28,
1901. it was recorded that “the snowfall was
general over the Darling Downs and south-
eastern border districts, and was the heaviest
ever experienced on the Downs.” There are
no records of snowfalls in recent years. (2)
No records available.
What is the best way of maintaining
the efficiency of flat carborundum stones used
for sharpening chisels, etc.? They clog and
lose their cut. —9729.
Put them in the fire or over a gas-ring,
which will burn the oil out
I propose 1o build a rectangular brick
tank to hold about 32,001) gals. Mg idea is
to have otie-half of the tank below the sur-
face and the remainder above ground. Are
there any disadvantages in such construction,
and what would be the probable cost f —1)285.
Brick is not recommended, The most
satisfactory structure would be a circular
reinforced-concrete tank, say, 20ft. in
diameter and 6ft. deep. The floor should
be not less than Gin. thick, reinforced with
a grid of Jin. mild steel bars spaced at Gin.
centres each way, set 4in. from the bottom
of the concrete —if the foundation is uncer-
tain the thickness of the floor should be
increased to Bin. and the reinforcement to
fin. bars. The "-all of the tank should
be at least 4in. thick, reinforced vertically
with .1 in. bars at 12in. centres and horizontal
reinforcement in the lower half fin. bars at
4in. centres, and in the upper half Jin. bars
at 4in. centres, all set centrally in the wall.
Every second bar of the floor reinforce-
ment should be bent up into the wall and
the vertical reinforcement in the wall bent
round and embedded in the floor for a dis-
tance of about 2ft. in each case. To ensure
water-tightness a fairly rich concrete should
be used, say, '6 parts of Jin. screenings or
gravel, 2 parts sand and 1 part Portland
ccmcnj. The cost would be about £l5O.
Which is the easier, to pump the tyre
of a lorry from complete deflation to 70 lb.
pressure with the weight, of the lorry and
load on, or to relieve the tyre of weight, and
then inflate? —(1007.
It is simpler and quicker and better for the
tyre to jack up the affected wheel.
How to tan a snake-skin for a small coat?
—0778.
Soak the skin in water for 24 hours; then
carefully scrape the back to remove ail
flesh and fat. Make up a curing liquor of
4oz. powdered alum, 2oz. common salt, to
lgul. of water, and soak the skin for 48
hours. Wash and again scrape the back.
Make up another liquor, minus the salt, and
soak for 24 hours. Then wash thoroughly
and hang to dry away from the sun and
wind. When the skin is almost dry smear
a little vegetable oil on the flesh side and
then drv right off.
My two-year-old fox-terrier occasionally
bites his tail severely, and works himself
into a fit. What is wrong, and. what is the
remedy? —o69s.
Evidently a case of worm-infestation. Give
him some arica-nut and extract of male fern
combined with calomel first thing in the
morning—any chemist will make you up a
capsule. Follow with dose of castor oil.
Give warm enemas of salt and water; one
half-teaspoonful to a pint.
My dog has had distemper for five weeks.
Treatment? —9670.
Distemper lasting for five weeks is prob-
ably in the nervous form, which is difficult to
treat. Try five-grain tabloids of iodide of
potassium twice daily for about a week;
leave off for three or four days and begin
again. Vaccine treatment is coming into
favor, and very shortly vaccines for this
disease will be on the Australian market.
Empty wine-casks which have been outside
my S. Aus. place for months arc riddled
with small holes in the lower staves. What
parasites are likely to be responsible, and
what should be done to settle their hash? —
9490.
The holes are almost certainly those of
shot-hole borers ( Lyctus brunneus) , small
beetles that bore into old timber and furni-
ture, especially light woods and sapwood of
eucalypti. Almost every fence-post in
Australia is bored by them. The beetles and
their larvai may be destroyed by immersing
the casks in boiling water for a few minutes.
How are members of the Sy I ey water
police force recruited? Age, physical and
educational qualifications, and salary? Do
water-policemen undergo a special course of
training, and must applicants possess nauti-
cal experience? —9soB.
They are drawn from the general police,
age, physical and educational requirements
being those laid down for all police appli-
cants, and already published here. Men
considered most suitable are attached to the
water police. Pay commences at 16s. 7d.
per day (7 days a week), the same as in the
fore-' g^imrally.
(1) How much ammonium sulphate, in
crystal jorm, should I put on a tennis lawn
(100 x 50) to act as a stimulant (not as
weed-killer) ? 11 gw often should it be
applied? Should it be “watered in" after
application ? —9663.
Apply at rate of Joz. per sq. yard three
or four times during spring and summer. If
not dissolved in water, it should be mixed
with sand to ensure even distribution and
to prevent burning. In either case, “water
in” after application.
(1) What is the charge for a passport to
England? (2) How long must you wait, for
it from date of application at Brisbane?
(3) Where to apply in Brisbane? —9649.
(1) Ten shillings. The charge is the
same for a joint passport— i.e., for man and
wife and children under 16 years—or for
a person travelling alone. (2) Approxi-
mately three or four days; in urgent cases,
a much shorter period. (3) Collector of
Customs, Customs House.
(1) What is the difference between a pro-
bate policy and any other life-insurance
policy? (2) What is the cost? —9587 a.
(1) A probate policy is one, taken out
usually when a person is xvell on in years,
to assist his executors in finding cash for
probate duties, which in these days, with
both Commonwealth and State claiming, may
run up to 4s. or ss. in the £. Without such
a policy or cash wherewith to pay this tax,
the executors may have to rush securities
on the market at a most inopportune time.
If a man has a probate policy his executors
can collect the amount payable under the
policy as soon as probate has been granted
and the duty becomes payable. With an
ordinary life policy the amount becomes pay-
able only after the duty has been paid. (2)
A probate policy costs the same as an ordi-
nary life policy.
Does Anybody Know?
How to temper small spiral springs, also
drills for boring holes in glass?—9Bl3.
How to make a blackboard that chalk
won’t stick to? —9840.
Brief Answers.
D.McV.: It’s all a question of risk. It
you seek safety first, don’t look for more than 54
p.c.; with very few exceptions risks grow larger and
larger as you get past that....AV.C.G.: No, it isn’t
suitable. Too many pitfalls. You can get a Govern-
ment stock to give you well over 5 p.c Bulle:
Except by a very rare accident you can’t get security
and a high return; and all you have to decide is
which is the more important to y0u.... F.C.S.: (1)
It may reconstruct and thus alter the number and
value of shares. (2) No. (3) Tell us the name of
the co. and we could better advise. (4) A co. is not
bound to issue scrip; but it is bound to keep a
register and to supply the Registrar with a copy....
T. 8.5.: All right as long as you can watch it closely;
there are many more solid... .J.D.; No, though it
may be quite possible to make money out of it as
a gamble... .Urq.; Tillam, Boehme and Tickle, 310
Flinders-lane, Melbourne, are the agents... .H.W.:
Yates and Co., 184 Sussex-street, Sydney, supply re-
cleaned samples; Is. 2d. per lb. or 85s. per cwt.
.... J.5.J.8.: They are made in Sydney; 3s. Bd.
per dozen, post free, Mick Simmons... .11.E.W.:
Communicate Home and Territories Dept., Canberra,
and any of the large Island trading firms... .A.J.S.:
Yes; “Public Service List (Teachers),” 1928, 3s. 6d. ;
Govt. Printer, Sydney... .D.M.C.; Country Traders’
Assoc., 116 Clarence-street, Sydney... .A.S.F.: Vour
question was answered (B, 27/2/’29) ..,. V. 1).: (1)
Try Labor Dept., Brisbane. (2) Wyndhnm is in
W.A S.M.; The essential treatment is frequent
washing. Use soap spirit; then wash it out
thoroughly... .C.M.G.; Try Angus and Robertson or
Dymocks, Sydney... .F.A.J.: Apply personally to
chief steward. Stewards get about .V 9 per month
on English and up to £ll per month on U.S. ves-
sels. .. .J.N.; Get a dentist to examine you without
delay W.H.; The It.A.S. (N.S.AV.) definition of a
galloway is a pony over 14.2 and under 15 hands.
. ...C.R.: Depends entirely on the terms of the
policy. The fact that the Court awarded damages
against you indicates that the responsibility for the
accident was yours, and if in such case the policy
provides that the insurance co. shall not be respon-
sible you have no claim. Read the policy carefully
and if still in doubt consult a solicitor... .J.M.: It
may be opacity of the cornea or cataract, “true” or
“false.” Take him to a vet 11.J.C.: No, certainly
not... .D. 5.8.: Ditto; you, too, can’t afford to take
the risk... .C.L.J.: To prevent chilblains, wear
thick socks and comfortable boots, so that the cir-
culation is in no way impeded, and try a course of
cod-liver oil. Thyroid extract is sometimes used, but
only under strict supervision... .W.E.T.: (1) Hollo-
way and Sons, Harbord, and Hillsdon Watts, Mascot,
are N.S.W. bulb-growers that sell wholesale. (2)
lnternational Nurseryman and
Seedsman (monthly, 6d.), 9 Queen-street, Melbourne.
. ...F.C.: Piastre won the Melbourne Cup in
1912... .L.H.: Try any of the following, all of
Newcastle (N.S.W.): Breckenridge, Ltd., Gard-
ner and Co., Heron’s Creek Timber Mills, Newcastle
Timber Co. and Viggers, Ltd.... .0.H.W.: The first
item should bring a few pounds; the others are not
worth much. Try second-hand booksellers or adver-
tise... .J.T.: Motor-Power Transmitters, 76 Pitt-
street, Sydney... .J.M. A.: Consult Warren and
Strang, 14 Barrack-street, Sydney... .C.H. A.: She
isn’t a quack. She uses dieting methods (the only
means of weight-reduction medically approved), has
been in practice for years, and at least one big hos-
pital recommends patients to consult her.... Jake:
“Home Furniture-making,” by G. A. Raeth (7s.
6d.) ; “The Cabinet-maker’s Guide,” by R. Bitmead
(4s. 6d.) ; and “Furniture-Making,” by Bowers and
Bovington (11s. fid.) ; Dymocks, Sydney... .J.S.:
There is a Gilbert and Sullivan Society in Sydney;
the sec. is Miss Norma S. Mdrice, Ferryhill,. Cre-
morne Point,.. .J.T. J.: Sydney brewers to whom
the question was submitted have had no experience
with Japanese hops. The sample sent was too
mouldy for any of them to form a fair opinion as
to its quality... .J. 8.: Cattle found straying on a
public highway or reserve in any shire or .muni-
cipality in N.S.W. may be impounded... .C.R.: You
could sell it as a scrapped car without warranty of
fitness.... A. J.: (1) Yes. You must serve notice to
quit by a certain date; if it is not complied with
you may then take possession. (2) If you take pos-
session you can claim up to that date 0n1y....
E.D.S.; The Sydney season of the Don Cossack Choir
opened at the Town Hall on May 18, 1926....
J.M.1.: The 5-h.p. Tangye oil-engine has not been
imported since the war, having been replaced by a
51-h.p. machine (vertical type) incorporating a mag-
neto starter. It would cost £3O for conversion from
blow-lamp to magneto starter. Dalgety's, Miller’s
Point, Sydney, can advise further... .H.0.R.: No
statistics are available... .H.P.W.: Tung oil is
obtained from the nuts of Aleurites cordata (Chinese,
“Tun Yu”), a handsome tree native to China and
Japan. As a substitute for linseed oil it has not
come up to expectations. It is considered that the
tree would probably do well in North Australia. No
experiments have been carried 0ut....C.C.: Write
Russell and Son, 671 George-street; S. R. Seaver,
Wingello House, Angel-place; or G. Matthias, Prince-
ton House, 235 Clarence-street—all of Sydnej 7 ....
R.8.P.: Get a copy of the co.’s instruction manual
from the nearest dealer... .D.A.: There are vestigial
hind limbs in the pythons and other related snakes.
Externally these appear as mere spurs on either
side, but on dissection they are seen to have
several of the bones normal to a fully-formed limb.
. ...G.M.: (1) Yes, provided they do not con-
travene the gaming laws. (2) N0....T.R.: The
Railway Commissioners say it is not intended for the
present to proceed with the electrification of the
Bankstown-Regent’s Park line. .. .Norseman: “There
were a boy, a girl and a lady” is correct. .. .L.M.:
If the neighbor refuses or neglects to use due dili-
gence in complying with the notice served on him
within six months after he has received it you may
erect the fence at your own expense; the neigh-
bor’s share may be recovered through the Court.
C.J.H.: The N.S.W. Agricultural Department is
not familiar with “the newly evolved theory
of hydrostatic soil moisture” A.C.W.: Where
a person has paid British income-tax on
any part of his income and is able to prove
that he has paid tax on the .same income in
his Dominion, relief from the British tax may be
granted. In your case the N.S.W. stock is exempt
from State tax and you do not appear to have paid
any Federal tax, so it does not look as though you
had any claim to relief. Communicate, however,
with the secretary, Commissioners of Income-tax,
York House, Kingsway, W.C.2, London J. 8.: (1)
and (2) No. (3) The Act provides that any person
not being a legal practitioner or other specifically
qualified person “who shall for or in expectation of
any fee, gain or reward, directly or indirectly draw
or prepare” legal documents or any proceedings in
law or equity shall be liable to a penalty of £2O.
It is the acceptance of a fee or other reward that
constitutes the offence... .J.H.S.: (1) Because it
means something and the other doesn’t. (2) No.
.... (Many others mailed.)


a
aiSfe
!
mr
THE AUSTRALIA
Sydney, N.S.W.
WINDSOR HOTEL
Wellington, N-Z.
NATIONAL HOTEL
Brisbane, Q'land.
c .
tP4 Lfc
MM
□
S3isia
Ffcapr PC,
* "S*** ' : *•**"
MJJiI-i
S 3 2313’
■»
SCOTTS HOTEL
Melbourne, Vic.
*1
n
i» cf f M x».! n
li
3*
.!!!!»!!!
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
Melbourne, Vic.
PALACE HOTEL
Penh. W.A.
WESTMINSTER HOTEI.
Newcastle, N.S.W.
HOTEL RICHMOND
Adelaide, S.A.
GREAT NORTHERN HOTEL
Newcastle, N.S.W.
HOTEL BONDI
Bondi, N.S.W.
#»-
HOTEL HYDRO
Leeton, N.S.W.
THE WINTER GARDEN
The Australia, Sydney.
(S
COMMERCIAL HOTEL
Rawer a, N.Z.
When you travel
You’ll find that favourite hotels
in Australia and New Zealand
furnish the favourite toilet soap
From Brisbane or Sydney to Mel-
bourne —from Adelaide to Perth —
from Auckland or Wellington to
Christchurch and Dunedin
travelling Australians find at the
most popular hotels the country's
most popular toilet soap.
Where you find exceptional service
exceptional attention to com-
fort there you find Palmolive.
Where you find Palmolive, there
you are sure to find every detail
of hotel service to be excellent.
Next time you travel, check up on
this. Check up on it now, from
memory of your latest trip.
Proof Right Here
On this page are photographs of
twenty-four hotels. They are lead-
ing hotels in their sections of
Australia and New Zealand. Per-
haps you have been a guest in one
or more of them.
In every one shown, Palmolive is
furnished. And in hundreds more,
for which there is not space to
show pictures here.
It is convincing proof of the tre-
mendous popularity Palmolive has
won —and holds.
Why so many prefer it
The owners and managers of these
fine hotels do not guess about any-
thing—even the smallest details of
service—upon which they depend
for success. They know that most
people prefer, demand, and use
Palmolive at home. They know
that it is the toilet soap favoured by
most women and most men.
Because it is a pure, Scientific
blend of rare palm and olive oils,
perfectly saponified.
Because it is an unusuallv thorough
cleanser—yet mild, gentle, lotion-
like.
Hotels buy it for use of guests be-
cause it is their policy to provide
the best of everything. Just as they
provide excellent foods. Just as
they insist upon courteous, in-
telligent employees. Just as they
provide fine linens, good furnish
ings and appointments.
The famous “ little ” cakes
For use in hotels, Palmolive is
supplied in “ individual cakes ”
They are of exactly the same pure,
mild soap that is found in the
famous full-size cakes of general
use. But smaller in size. They are
wrapped in the Palmolive green
wrapper.
If you have a favourite hotel at
which Palmolive is not yet being
furnished, a word to the manager
will secure this extra comfort for
future visits.
COLGATE PALMOLIVE PEET CO. LTD.
SYDNEY AND WELLINGTON
HOTEL AUSTRALIA
Perth, W.A.
m
tiJl
u.
THE MIDLAND HOTEL
Wellington, N.Z
GROSVENOR HOTEL
Adelaide, S.A.
ROYAL HOTEL
Bathurst, N.S.W.


PEAPES
clothe men AND their sons.
Buying at PEAPES, one derives
the advantages of QUALITY,
VALUE and SERVICE in
which only concentrated buying
can result.
Confining their activities to
supplying the needs of men and
their sons, PEAPES are natu-
rally enabled to secure the best
—at bedrock prices.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND AND FINANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
SYDNEY Also at AVAOOA k HENTY, LONDON MELBOURNE. BRISBANE. TOWNSVILLE.
Auction Sales f WOOL, FAT STOCK. GRAIN. SHEEPSKINS,
Throughout the Year 1 HIDES, TALLOW, FURRED SKINS, etc.
Cash Advances on Pastoral Properties and Stock. Wool , Grain and Produce.
Offices: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney. JAMES KIDD. General Manager for Australia.
London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAN! BRAND
Containing about 99.9.")% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers* Association
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Despair
in the ranks of the rabbit
results in
Delight
among the men who set the
skins if the consignment is
sent to AVinehcombc Carson
for sale. They are specialists
in ibe sale of all classes of skins.
They sell them on commission only, never buying nor
dealing. Top market prices for skins are their
constant aim.
Consign Rabbit, Fox and all other Skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SALESMEN. LTD.
Winchcombe House, or 99*101 Eagle St,
Bridge St., Sydney, Brisbane.
THE MAM
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
C[?]PARK & CASNEREAGH STS SYDNEY
PRIZES FOR FARM HINTS.
Thousands of men fail on the land be-
cause they don’t know how to succeed;
many thousands more succeed less than
they should because they lack proper
guidance.
“The Bulletin” wants to encourage
farmers and scientists who know to help
those who don’t know.
With that object it offers two prizes of
£2O and £lO for the most useful contri-
butions to the “Land” pages during the
six months ending June 30 next.
All contributions submitted, whether
published or not, will be considered in
awarding points, and the prizes will go
to the winners of most points.
Points will be awarded for interest and
practical usefulness.
The prizes are additional to the usual
payment for published contributions.
4
HUMUS AND FERTILITY.
“Reminder”: The value of humus in wheat
lands cannot be over-estimated. Besides in-
creasing the water-holding capacity of the
soil, it provides food for bacteria, thus ren-
dering dormant plant-foods available for
plant' use. By its lightness it improves the
texture of heavy soils. At Rothamstcd
(Eng.) from 1852 till 1871 two plots of
wheat were grown side by side. One received
a dressing of stable manure each year. After
1871 neither crop received any manure. The
average yield over the 19 years on the man-
ured plot was three times as great as on the
unmanured plot. In the year after leaving
off the manure, the previously manured land
still gave three times as big a yield, and
that continued several years. The most
striking feature, however, is this: 30 years
afterwards, the crop 'on the land which had
previously received manure was still twice
as large as the crop from the other.
The most effective measure for restoring
humus is by the growth of green feed and
manure crops, which should be fitted into a
suitable rotation with wheat. The rotation
of fallow, wheat, peas, wheat has given very
satisfactory results. The “White Bruns-
wick” pea, recently brought east from West-
ralia, is very useful in very dry districts.
As the feeding value of most crops is
greater than the manurial value, it follows
that it is foolish to plough in green crops
when stock are incorporated with wheat
farming.
Much valuable humus is destroyed by
burning off wheat stubble. Hence this prac-
tice is not to be recommended unless the
presence of disease, etc., commands it.
PEAS AND WHEAT.
“Nemo”: A rotation which has been prac-
tised in my district is the five-year one of
(1) peas (vines fed out after stripping),
(2) wheat, (8) grass, (4) fallow (seed with
lucerne), (5) oats (seeded the following
autumn). Wheat which follows after peas
gains the benefit of the nitrogen they bring
to the soil, and yields up to 36 bushels have
been produced from country ploughed and
sown the same year under these conditions.
Wlieaten stubble the following year has been
found to give much better feed than under
usual methods. The disadvantage of this
system is that, as the winter rains have to be
waited for before any ploughing can be done,
only about 100 acres each of peas and wheat
can be dealt with by one team. The disad-
vantage is not so pronounced in an early
sjeason, though. The remaining steps of the
rotation call for no remark.
THE NET WEIGHT OF SUPER.
“Will Seer”: In every State it is com-
pulsory for the manufacturer of artificial
fertiliser to guarantee the net weight of fer-
tiliser in each bag.
Recently I saw two farmers on a railway
station in Northern Vic. busy weighing bags
of super., so I had a look. Allowing 31b.
for the bag. the bags averaged a little more
than 21b. light. One farmer contended the
right quantity of super, had not been put in
the bags; the other said some might have
evaporated.
Now, super, naturally contains moisture
(approx. 10 per cent.), and this is liable to
evaporate, all depending on the temperature
and exposure. The hotter the day and the
longer the fertiliser is left in the sun the
more moisture is evaporated and the greater
the loss in weight.
A truck of super, consigned from Yarra-
ville to Horsham during January was
weighed at the consigning station, and again
10 days afterwards on the goods platform
at Horsham. The average loss per bag was
a little short of 51b., which represented the
loss of moisture in transit.
It should be borne in mind, especially by
those wheat-farmers who plant large areas,
that super, dries out, and as the weight de-
creases the percentage of phosphoric acid
increases. Very often 22 per cent, super, is
nearly 23 per cent, when applied through the
drill.'
BUCKWHEAT AS A RENOVATOR.
“Bad Australian”: It is surprising that so
little seems to be known in Australia about
buckwheat, which in addition to its value
as grain is a land renovator of the first order.
It will grow on the poorest soil, and is not
affected by previous crops; it may be de-
pended on to give a profitable return from
land too poor for other crops, or worn out
by continuous production of wheat, barley
and oats, as it utilises undissolved mineral
phosphates which the true cereals have been
unable to assimilate. It also lias an excel-
lent effect in cleaning “dirty” land, as weeds
cannot compete with its vigorous growth.
Growing on poor land, it provides a valuable
green manure crop by rendering plant food
available and furnishing humus to the soil,
and when ploughed in decays rapidly and
completely, leaving the residues for the next
crop. It is particularly free from the attacks
of destructive insects and fungoid diseases,
and an excellent crop to precede potatoes,
as it leaves the soil in that mellow condi-
tion so favorable to the growth of clean, well-
shaped tubers. It will grow well on soils
where little lime is present, but land rich in
nitrogen induces too rank a growth and the
crop goes down, and once down it will not
rise again.
The seed may be sown broadcast at the
rate of a bushel to the acre, but drilling
makes a better job, and effects an appre-
ciable saving in seed.
Buckwheat meal is largely used in the
United. States as a stock and poultry food,
and nobody needs to be told about buckwheat
cakes.
FALLOWING.
“Reminder”: The efficiency of a fallow
depends entirely on its being kept loose on
the surface, and it may have to be harrowed
five or six times to preserve a mulch. When
a soil becomes hard and•»compact -it rapidly
dries out owing to the rise of moisture
through the capillary tubes of the soil. When,
however, these tubes are broken, as in the
ease when the surface soil is mulched, the
moisture can only rise to the under-surface
of the loose soil, and does not pass aw r ay
in vapor. Rain re-establishes capillary
attraction by running the surface soil to-
gether, and will render useless all previous
efforts to conserve moisture, if it is not de-
stroyed by further fracture.
Fallowing should be commenced as early
as possible in autumn. Summer cultivation
will not improve the moisture content, but
only retain what the soil already holds.
The most economical mulch is 2i to
3 inches. Thinner mulches are not effec-
tive enough, while thicker ones, though more
effective, are not sufficiently so to justify the
extra labor. •
CONCRETE FENCING POSTS.
“Yeoman”: “R.X.B.’s” concrete fencing
posts (B. 3/4/’29) are 6ft. long and Bin. x
Sin. at; the bottom, tapering to (lin. x Gin.
at the top. They are too large and cumber-
some for an ordinary fence, and would use
nearly three times the concrete necessary for
the post that would better meet the require-
ments of the average farm fence. Moreover,
“R.X.8.” does not provide for any reinforc-
ing. If not reinforced, a concrete post is
liable to snap when subjected to a sudden
shock or strain.
The post which I have found the most
serviceable for a 3ft. 3in. or 3ft. 6in. fence
is sft. long, sin. x 4|in. at the bottom and
s : n. x 3-jin. at the top, reinforced by two
hairpin bends of jin. steel rods traversing
(within fin. at each end) the full length of
the post. Corner and gate posts are 6ft. 9in.
long. Sin. x 7in. at the bottom, Gin. x Gin.
at the top. reinforced by two hairpin bends
of jin. steel rods. Intermediate strainers
may be 6ft. Gin. long, Gin. x Gin. at the
bottom and 4jin. x 4jin. at the top, re
forced bv two liairpiu bends of kin. steel.
The concrete mixture should consist ot one
part cement, two to two and a halt parts
sharp sand and four parts jin. screenings oi
clean, coarse river gravel. .
The form containing the moulds is made
by taking two pieces each 6ft. Gin. long ot
sin x 2iu. Oregon for the top and bottom
ends, and 15 pieces each sft. 2m. long ot
sin. x lin. oregon. The two oin. x -in.
pieces are placed on their edges oft. -in.
apart. The moulds are then formed in three
sections each section containing four moulds,
by placing the sin. x lin. pieces on their edges
in between the Sin. x 2in. pieces lhe bot-
tom of each section of four moulds is spaced
bv slipping in four pieces, each Sin. deep and
4:|in. wide, of lin. oregon between each mil.
X lin. length. The tops are also spaced by
slipping in four pieces, each Sin. deep and
31 iu. wide, of lin. oregon. r l bis is repeated
for the three sections. Thu spacing pieces
are nailed to the Sin. x 2in. pieces at Oacli
end. The form is then drawn tight together
by four Jin. tie-bolts, each 011. Bm. long.
Tnoy lire placed one at each end ol the lonn,
and one each between the first and second
and tic second and third sections.
Strips of Sin. angle fillet are then placed
the length of each mould, one fillet to each
of the four edges. They are nailed in posi-
tion, care being taken that they are flush
with the under and top surfaces of the
moulds. The same size angle-fillets are also
secured iu position at each corner of the top
of the moulds. The purpose of the angle
fillets is to bevel each edge and corner ol the
completed concrete post; this prevents cliip-
ping. . , ,
A piece of lin. heading is secured at the
top of each mould, each piece running per-
pend eulurly when the form is lying Hat,
for the purpose of moulding a groove length-
wise across the top of each post to carry
the barbed wire.
All the holes (except that for the top tie-
hole), spaced to requirements, are bored hori-
zontally through the sides of the moulds in
each section and lengths of jin. steel rods
run through. The end of each rod should be
bent at an angl<‘ to enable them to be turned
to prevent sticking and to facilitate with-
drawal when the concrete is setting. The
hole at the top of each post used for tying
the barbed wire is made by placing a short
piece of lin. steel perpendicularly through the
concrete about four inches from the top when
the concrete is run into the mould. The tie-
hole and the groove on top of post are at a
right-angle to the other holes.
A platform about 6ft. 6in. square is neces-
sary. This is made by nailing 1.3 pieces of
6irn x lin. oregon each 6ft. 6iu. long tightly
together on four cross-bearers of Sin. x 2in.
oregon. The surface of the platform must
be planed and level. The inner sides of the
moulds must also be planed smooth. When
the concrete is mixed the form is placed on
the platform, and all surfaces which will
make contact with the mixture are oiled.
Discarded motor oil will do for this. The
12 moulds are then filled to a depth of fin.
The first hairpin of steel reinforcing is then
laid on top of the cement in each mould.
The moulds are next filled to within fin. of
the top. The second hairpin of steel is placed
in position, the moulds are filled to the sur-
face and the concrete smoothed off. As the
concrete is poured into the moulds it should
be well joggled to ensure density. An object
of reinforcing should be to get a rod about
fin. from each of the four corners of the
post. Single moulds are sufficient for strainer
posts.
The posts should not be removed from the
moulds for four or five days, and should then
be carefully placed in a shed or shady posi-
tion, covered with bags and kept moist for
another seven days. They should not be
used for fencing under throe months, but a
longer period is preferable.
Cement would cost about 9d. and steel 4jd.
per post.
The plain wires are not pulled through the
holes in the concrete posts when erected.
Those holes are at right-angles to the fence.
Each wire is secured by a loop of tie-wire,
both ends of which are drawn through the
hole in the post and then brought back
around, one on each side, and twisted around
the wire.
Concrete posts are but little dearer than
timber, and stand for all time.
FENCING POSTS.
“W.M.F.”: In our dry inland districts
almost any timber will do for fencing posts
so long as it is reasonably mature. Even
belah, when of the right age, is not to be
despised. Brgalow, box, coolabah, pine and
gidya are good, even though somewhat small.
In Westralia jamwood posts less than 2in.
through will outlast a man’s lifetime. On
the coast and highlands much more care in
selection is necessary. Choose mature trees.
If they are hollow, so long as they are not
shelly, there is no harm in that. River gum,
wherever obtainable, 'is unbeatable. Iron-
bark, turpentine, tallow-wood, box, grey gum,
white and red mahogany, blackbutt, all are
useful.
All will be improved, some of them very
considerably, by treatment, especially of that
part which is to go into the ground. An
application of coal tar is useful, but tiresome
and expensive. The part of the .-post that
needs treatment is that which will be about
the top of the ground. It is there that most
posts rot. To prevent this dig a trench
about a foot wide. Put a tire in it. Lay
your posts over the fire so that about six
inches of them will be charred, making fl
collar, the top of which should show when
the post is rammed in its place in the line.
If you have any turpentine posts put
them in the wettest ground, the blackbutt in
the driest.
GATES.
“Bill R.”: Double-gate entrances to the
farm paddocks give the best results. The
customary single gate that swings both ways
is serviceable, but if strongly built it sags
owing to its weight, and if lightly con-
structed it is frail.
When hinged to the sides of the posts
double gates should be allowed to open back
parallel with the fence. Otherwise stock
driven through may push against and close
the barrier. Let the gates swing from the
post centre and open either way. The posts
carrying the gates should be separate from the
fence. Wires strained to the gate-post pull
it out of the perpendicular, and cause a
difficulty in latching.
To prevent the posts from being dragged
inward by the gate’s weight, lit closely be-
tween them an eight-by-eight-inch spar sunk
level with the ground, and for rigidity bolt
thereto the left-hand gate headpost.
FAT LAMBS FOR EXPORT.
“F.S.A.”: Roseworthy Agricultural Col-
lege (S.A.) made exhaustive tests under
average farm conditions to ascertain the
profit in lamb export and the most profitable
breed and type of ewe and ram to use. Equal
numbers of Merino ewes were mated with
Merino, Lincoln, English Leicester, Border
Leicester, Romney Marsh, Dorset Horn,
Shropshire and Southdown rams respectively.
Lincoln-Merino, Eng. Leicester-Merino, Border
Leicester-Merino, and R. Marsh-Merino ewes
were also mated with Dorset, Shropshire
and Southdown rams respectively. All results
were based on returns from dams’ wool,
lambs’ pelts and sale of lambs. The follow-
ing are the outstanding results per 100 ewes:
Total
Returns
from
Lambs Value Lamlw
( Cross > Marketed, Lambs’ and
Ewe. Ram. per cent. Carcase. Dams.
I>. lAter-Mer. x S’down 108.20 *159 £259
B. L’ster-Mer. x 1). Horn 108.0 155 255
R. Marsh-Mer. x S’down 103.28 149 249
Merino x B. L’ster . . 89.23 128 241
Merino x S’down .. 81.97 118 220
Merino x Merino .. 78.42 84 198
The difference between the returns for lambs'
carcases and the total returns is made up
from the sale of lambs’ pelts and dams’ wool.
The Shropshire rams were responsible for
the lowest percentage of lambs. The progeny
of the Dorset Horn rams were the earliest
maturing, the average weekly increase in
weight being 41b. The progeny „of Shrop-
shire rams showed an increase of 3.751 b.
per week; that of Southdown 3.661 b.. while
the weekly weight increase of pure Merino
lambs was only 2.661 b.
The Southdown ram was responsible for
91.84 per cent, of first-grade lambs, and Dor-
set Horn. 68.46; while only 8.34 per cent, of
the pure Merino lambs were first-grade.
Where Merino ewes are kept the Border Lei-
cester ram proved the most profitable. Where
the crossbred ewe is used for breeding the
Southdown ram holds pride of place. Either
combination is capable of assuring a total
return of £2 Bs. to £2 12s. per ewe in 12
months under ordinarily favorable conditions.
THE BEST HORSE CROSSES.
“N.M.L.”: Invariably and every time,
for some unknown reason, the heavy
stallion and the light mare beget progeny
which are only waste of time. They are
heavy-headed, characterless dopes with legs
like chalk and joints like sponges. Any
drastic cross of two breeds of that sort is
a gamble, and no man may foretell the result
with even a remote possibility of accuracy.
If such a cross is to be made always use
the blood stallion and the heavy mare. The
result, though the progenitors may be full
brothers and sisters, is a different animal iu
every way. The blood stallion and the heavy
mare produce a horse which has a certain
amount of character, which is gifted with
agility to an age of, say, six years, and which
is a better animal in every way than the
other cross. Proof of that rule is found in
the crossing of asses and horses. The jack
donkey and the mare produce a mule. The
stallion and the jennie bring forth a curs*’.
In any case, a man cannot breed a type with
a cross. I know a half-draught mare and
a stallion which were mated several times.
The progeny, full brothers and sisters, were
all reared on the one station under similar
conditions. No two were alike in build, in
temperament, in ability or character.
“Bad Australian” (B. 6/3/’29) resurrects
the old “gazelle-like proportions” of our
(Continued on page 31.)


/
l
ms.
*>•
In fib and \lb
hygienic cans .
Punch a hole in the bottom of the can.
Cut around the side just under the top rim.
Out falls, in compact form, delicious meat in
clear firm jelly.
Note its delicate appetising aroma which
announces how really good it is.
Some of the reasons ? Choicest raw materials
—the solid basis of the first-class quality of
REX Pure Foods famous throughout Aus-
tralia. Then, the skill and experience you
would expect to find in a large model factory
with its thoroughly modern plant. Then,
the wonderful cleanliness remarked on with
admiration by every visitor!
Serve REX-PYE with salad or mint sauce. If
the day is warm, place a tin on the ice an
hour or so before lunch. It makes wholesome
tasty sandwiches too, for it is easily cut into
thin slices.
Put Quality before cheapness.
Always say REX-PYE.
REX-PYE
JL sk n i w/JlTl & A
Other REX Pure Foods—
lib and y 2 lb CANS lib CANS ONLY
Baked Beans in Tomato Sauce
Lorraine Smoked Sausages
Pork Sausage
Pork and Beans in Tomato
Sauce
K-be-B (Kidneys, Beans and
Bacon)
Devilled Kidneys
Ox Tongue
Choice Soups (five kinds)
Pork Brawn
Pig Feet
Fry and Bacon
Beef Sausages
Red-y-mele, choice
beef and vegetables
—a ready meal
ŵ
G ITT
(Division of
PTV. LTD.
Unil-ed Provisions Lhd)
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon


ẁ
Who can ignore
its challenge?
X
\„
s
m
w.
How quickly motordom recognises outstanding value!
in the case of Essex the Challenger its acceptance is
the talk everywhere.
Every day in Essex salesrooms motorists are appraising
its looks. On the road they are revealing it in get-away
and hill-climbing. Its better than 70 miles an hour is
proved over and over again by thousands of cars. And
that such performance will endure is proved by any
number of demonstrations of 60 miles an hour all day
long.
There are 76 advantages in Essex the Chat-,
lenger. Pit it against anything
Motordom has to offer.
ESSEX PRICES AT SYDNEY.
5 Balloon Tyres Standard Equipment.
Tourer (Australian Body)
Standard Sedan (Australian Body)
Standard Sedan (Imported Body)
Coupe (Imported Body)
Town Sedan (Imported Body, with bumper bars)
fV
Nes
(Jpt 11
SO
IiVV«
011°
to
ẃ
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
MOTORS LIMITED.,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
AUTOS LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


ẅ
Heavy-soled
Sporting Brogue
With broad welt and a tough,
but pliant sole, this is a special
Abbey shoe made for maximum
strength without undue weight.
It is exceptionally easy to wear,
having the arched, non-straining
instep and low-cut sides, distinc-
tive of all Abbey Shoes. No
“breaking-in” needed.
Three widths per size
Ensuring exact fit. You can
choose narrow, medium or wide
in each full and half size.
Order by Post: State width as
well as size, and ask also for the
correct Abbey Polish (6d. per
tin).
TAN CALF .... 457-
BLACK CALF - - - 39/6
hr,larged catalogue of men’swomen’s and
children’s footwear post free on request .
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
FPL 1?5
ARCHITECTS. ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
BRITISH
MADE
Perfection
push: rubber
CRAB
CAPTAIN
SELECTED
SPECIALLY
HOSTESS AND VISITORS
PLEASES
ALIKE
RECIPE BOOK AT AUI. GROCERS
FREE
Second-hand Saddles
e
AVo have a few
GO O D SEC-
OND - HAND
and shop-soiled
SADDLES for
sale. So here’s
your chance while they last,
which won’t be long.
SNAI* No. 1 :t slightly-
used Poley Saddles, as
photograph, in perfect con-
dition; fullv mounted.
Worth £lO, for £6/15/-
SNAP No. 2—l shop-soiled
Poley Saddles, good shape,
in perfect order ; with stir-
rups, leathers and girth. Worth
£O/10/-, for £4/15/-
KNAP No. ;; ti British Military
Saddles, unhreakable steel arch
tree, fitted un complete. Worth
£7, for £4/17/«
BUY CHEAP AND HUY NOW.
On N BRUSH,
The Saddle Specialist,
BRISBANE, Q.: 434 Queen Street.
SYDNEY, N.S.W.: 371 George Street,
• I'< 111 I/If
4
r
.-V*
MAY’S
BROADCAST FERTILISER
SPREADER
The “May” can go wherever a
horse and dray can. It covers
from 80 to 250 acres per day.
Can be attached to a dray or
motor-lorry and is also supplied
mounted on its own carriage.
Has a spread of 40ft. and can
distribute in quantities of up to
1 ton per acre.
IN T ERST AT E A GENTS :
NEW SOUTH WALES:
DALGETY & CO.,
Argyle Street, Miller’s Point, Sydney.
OUTHRIDGE, LTD.,
Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND:
CLARK & FATTSET,
Eagle Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
W. Y. SCRUTTON,
84 Nortli Terrace West, Adelaide.
AUSTRALASIAN IMPLEMENT CO.,
North Terrace, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA:
EASTFOOD’S HARDWARE
STORES,
Murray Street, Perth.
TASMANIA:
W. HART & SONS PTY., LTD.,
Charles Street, Launceston.
.T. TI. STUTTERD,
Wynyard.
H. G. BUCHANAN,
10 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Manufactured by
CHANDLERS
(D. & W. Chandler, Ltd.),
Brunswick Street,
Fitzroy, Victoria.
D
A
DO
NEW MODEL.
DONALDS
WIRE STRAINER
BEST IN THE WORLD.
Requires no skill —takes an unlimited length of loose
w ire—quick and efficient —does not damage the wire
stretches plain, netted or barb —light, and folds
into small compass—stretches at any part of fence
or at post—works automatically. A vastly-improved
model now available. Classed by experienced fencers as Perfection.
PRICE, 22/6. POSTAGE: N.S.W., 1/6; INTERSTATE, 2/S. SEND FOR FREE CATALOGUE.
DONALD PATENTS LTD.
Obtainable All Stores. GLENMORE ROAD, PADDINGTON, SYDNEY.
Makers of the famous Donalds Woolpresses, Lifting Jacks, etc.
ThE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £250,000
ALL CLASSES OF INSURANCE EFFECTED.
Probate Disability, Extended Insurance, Non-Forfeiture,
Hospital, Medical and Nurse's Fees Combined.
Make the event which causes the tax create the cash to pay the tax.
HEAD OFFICE: Hunter House, 26 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
A. McLEAN, Managing Director. ' • 800 111, Secretary.
INQUIRIES INVITED. .
DO YOU WANT TO ENTER A PROFESSION?
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession in life. A profession in
which competition is limited and which offers wonderful opportunities if you have any ability
and are persevering. Our tuition gives opportunities to students not to be found elsewhere.
Write for our booklet, telling of positions, salaries and fees, to-day. Start your new career NOW.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
present stocks of horses. That is not an indica-
tion of too much good blood. It merely shows
bad breeding. I can tell “Bad Australian,”
if he likes to go to the west of Queensland,
■ >u some of the big cattle stations, he can
tind stuff there with five or six crosses of
thoroughbred, and with a thoroughbred
stallion still in use, where he can see yards
full of station horses showing whips of
breeding, all able to gallop a bit, all fit to
work stock, and which will carry him there
and bring him back as often as he likes to
saddle them up for a day’s ride. But
reasonable care and decent selection have been
shown in the breeding of these horses. Let
"Bad Australian” or any others make no
mistake. There’s plenty of good stuff left,
and if the market would only make it worth
while there'd be a lot more coming to hand.
But a £5 maximum doesn't induce a breeder
to throw good stuff on the market.
There is only one rule for breeding a good
horse. Fix a type and aim at that type
by selection in breeding, and keep away from
drastic out-crosses.
SAND COLIC.
“Centurion”: None of the contributors
who have been giving advice as to the treat-
ment of “sanded” horses seem to have heard
of the method utilised with success by the
Light Horsemen in Sinai and Palestine. They
were often faced with the problem, especially
after the stabled and carefully-tended nags
had left the berseem bundles of Egypt for
the hard-grain rations of the desert, and
frequently found themselves far from the
veterinary chests and chemist shops when
first-aid was needed. If oil of some sort could
be got—and rifle-oil was sometimes available
—it was administered, and the subsequent
treatment simply consisted in rolling the
four-footed patient about on his back and
raking out the usually compacted bowel by
hand. The rolling dislodged the sand deposit
on the lower surface of the bowel, and the
result was almost invariably a cure. It is an
old bush trick, but was a never-failing sur-
prise to British horsemasters and vets, who
witnessed it.
CHICORY.
“Jesmond”: “R.X.8.” (B. 30/4/’29) is
far too optimistic about chicory. Aus-
tralia’s demand for this crop is not un-
limited. We use only 700 to 750 tons a year,
which is supplied by local growers. The
statement that 15 tons is an average crop
is ridiculous; it might in exceptional cases
and in small patches go 12 or 35 tons green,
but that is a very different thing from the
article of commerce. Further, the statement
that sun-dried chicory is superior to that
dried by artificial heat is absurd. It requires
a temperate climate to grow it, but how the
deuce is a temperate climate going to dry
chicory to the required degree'/ And that
is quite apart from the fact that you would
need more acres of racks to dry it than
ground to grow it. Further, chicory has
a great attraction for moisture, and the
drying crop would absorb more moisture
during the night than it had lost during the
day. And, lastly, the darned stuff goes rotten
unless it is shoved on the fire quick and
lively. ‘
When the crop, like parsnip in appearance,
is lifted—it is washed and sliced and then
dried in special kilus. (The subsequent
roasting and milling are done by the coffee
merchants and not by the grower.) The
kilns here (Phillip Island, Vic.) take off
about four to six bags of dried chicory to a
floor, and it takes four to six floors to a ton.
The drying time for a floor is from 9 to 32
hours over a very hot furnace, which shows
how impossible it would be to dry it under
a temperate sun. In rare cases chicory has
panned out at four tons dried on small
patches, but two tons is a good crop, with the
average from 35cwt. to 30cwt., depending
upon the amount of work put into its cul-
tivation.
Apart from a small tonnage grown in
S. Aus., almost all the chicory used in Aus-
tralia comes from the Westernport Bay
district in Vic., with Phillip Island the
largest producer. Other districts have grown
it, but only for a year or two until it .was
found that other crops paid better and en-
tailed less work. Chicory growing means
more hard work than almost any other crop;
most growers wish they had never seen
the stuff, and many are turning to more
profitable crops.
PLANTING AN ORCHARD.
“Cam”; When putting in an orchard the
ground, should first be broken up deeply, and
a year’s fallow, although not essential, is
highly beneficial. Draw up a plan of the
orchard, taking care to allow for necessary
3>reakwinds and sufficient headlands. The
exact locality of each tree should now be
marked by a peg. First set out the outside
rows, wffiich must be at right angles to one
another, and drive a peg into the ground at
the spot each tree is to occupy, being very
careful of the measuring (20-feet squares
between the trees is about right). Now
stretch a length of No. 30 fencing wire
between opnosite boundaries and with a
measuring-rod set pegs at 70-feet intervals
along the wire. Continue until the paddock
is complete. To insure the pegs being truly
in line attach a ring made of |-inch iron to
either end of the fencing wire, drive a spike
through one of the rings, making it fast, and
pass a crowbar through the other ring, exert-
ing sufficient leverage to draw the w T ire taut.
When planting be careful to cut off all
bruised, and broken roots, place the tree
in position, keeping the strongest roots
towards the prevailing winds, and press
the earth firmly around the roots with the
foot. Heap the earth around the trunk a
little higher the surrounding ground
level,, as the soil will sink a little after
planting; unless this is done there will be a
basin around the tree stem, allowing surplus
water to make the filled-in soil sodden.
Prune the young tree back heavily imme-
mediately after planting, in order to estab-
lish a strong root-system and insure short,
stocky stems and symmetrical branches.
Do not put any fertiliser whatever in the
holes. A few years ago the writer planted
3800 apple and prune trees, and placed a
handful of a mixture containing nitrate of
soda, sulphate of potash and superphosphate
in the hole with each tree. Of 900 prunes
640 died without making any growth what-
ever, while 30 p.c. of the apples succumbed.
The misses were replaced the following year
without any fertiliser at all, and over 95
p.c. are alive now.
Especially in exposed localities, provide a
suitable break wind, and some good commer-
cial almond is recommended. Almond-trees,
besides being extremely profitable, do not take
as much room, nor require as much atten-
tion, as other deciduous trees.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
r Hoiv to treat a, horse troubled with hots?
The front legs and shoulders are covered
icitli the eggs—are these likely to harm a
person handling the horse? —9745.
The eggs are not dangerous to human
beings. They should be treated with some
pungent solution, such as creosote, kero-
sene, etc. The horse should be starved for
at least 24 hours and then drenched with
a solution of 1 to 2 ounces turpentine and
3 to 2 pints raw linseed oil, according to
the size of the animal. He should be
groomed regularly.
A paddock I wish to lay down with lucerne
has become infested icitli couch grass? Best
means of eradication? If the lucerne gets
a start ivill it beat the couch? —972s.
It is useless to plant lucerne where couch
is thick; the couch will soon choke out the
lucerne. You must have the land free of
the grass; plough shallow so as to get under
the crown, and expose it to frost and sun.
Burying the grass by deep ploughing is no
good ; it will come through again. Keep the
roots on the surface and harrow the dry
material into heaps and burn. In June sow
a broadcast crop of wheat, oats or barley foi
green feed; when the crop is harvested shal-
low plough again and keep it cultivated dur-
ing the summer to free the land of any couch
roots or runners. Sow in autumn (1930)
with lucerne if land is clean.
My horse, grass-fed , has had an itch about
two months; it is along his back and sides
to the rump. His skin appears to be clean,
but he is always rubbing on things and
hims lf sore in places. —9796.
The trouble is apparently mange. For
treatment it is essential that the whole body
be clipp.d and carefully washed, and any
scabs, removed; also that the following
dressing be applied over the whole surface
of the body : Strong solution of calcium noly-
sulphidcs. 8oz.; water, IGoz.; horse fat. IGoz.
The solution is prepared from 2}lb. sulphur,
lib. good quicklime and 1 gallon of wat-r.
Sulphur and lime should be thoroughly
mixed, and water should be added until a
smooth cream without lumps is obtained.
Transfer this to a boil r. bring the volume of
the cream to one gallon by adding wat'>r.
boil and stir during half an hour. The
liquid should now bo of a dark color: if
yellowish, continue boiling until dark red is
obtained. After the liquid has cooled all
unsoluble residue should be removed; then
make up the volume to one gallon. A detailed
system of treatment such as the following is
essential: First day, clip; second day, wash ;
third day, dress ; fourth to eighth day, touch
up dressing; ninth day, rewash ; tenth day,
groom, exercise, reclip and. if necessary, re-
peat as from third day. After apparent cure
monthly washings in watery dressing such as
kerosene 1 pint, soap lib., water 1 gallon are
necessary for the following few months to
prevent recurrence.
(1) Is rabbit suitable feed for folds? (2)
If so, should it be given cooked or raw?
(3) In what quantity, and how often? —9399.
(1) Yes, as a means of supplying extra
protein to the ration. (2) Boiled; both
flesh and soup can be used every day in the
mash. (3) About one-fifth by weight of th'
mash ingredients before mixing. The weights
of the rabbits should be taken before cook-
ing.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“W.M.F.”: When clearing land it is advis-
able to ringbark at least 12 months before
the plough is to be put in. The trees then
return to the soil much that they have taken
out of it. The longer they can be left stand-
ing to shed bark, leaves and twigs the better.
Burning off does not give the same result,
though its benefits are more immediate.
Especially is this true in respect to planting
orchards. To grub out green trees and im-
mediately put in others is to defy one of the
soundest laws of husbandry.
“Odd Job”: If a small wire-netting fence
is erected in the channel that feeds the dam,
much of the rubbish will be caught and silt-
ing will be reduced. A series of these light,
rough fences in the catchment areas will
increase storage capacity and improve the
condition of the water.
“Pine-needle”: Another use for the old
milk-can. Cut off at the top rim ; then cut
a hole in one side about seven inches square
just above the bottom rim. Midway up on
each side make two small holes, and through
these secure an iron bar across the can. A
petrol-tin sits nicely on this bar. and you’ll
be amazed at the short time it takes to boil
a tin of water in this fire-box. If you haven’t
a copper your wife has also a pleasant sur-
prise in store for her.
“0.Y.0.”: After trying without any luck
to shift a rusted nut on your harvester or
other gadget by using heat, kerosene and
other oils, vinegar, glycerine, etc., give the
stubborn customer a dose of crude eucalyp-
tus oil. If that doesn’t do the job in good
style, I know of nothing but cold chisel and
hammm- worth bothering about.
“0.Y.0.”: To keep saws, chisels, etc., from
rusting, smear them with a little mercurial
ointment. Always worth while to have a pot
of this in the toolshed.
“Reminder”: Buyers of wheaten chaff
prefer a sample of a uniform green color,
evenly cut, and free from dust. These facts
should be kept in the mind of the farmer
who wishes to realise 10s. to 15s. pe r ton
extra for his produce. The best period to
harvest for hay is after flowering before the
grain is formed. The plant at this stage Is
fully matured ; grain is only formed at the
expense of the nourishment in the stem and
flag. If grain be allowed to form before cut-
ting tlm crops, there will be no increase in
the feeding value, but really a decrease as
the st»m and flag become more o r ]n S ,
digestible, while the grain which contains
most of tlm nutriment passes through the
animal undigested.


7hp cen/pp of Queen S foncfs
' c/is/'ngu/shec/ Soc/o/ fife-
BRISBANE
è
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Cou r t
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at a.l
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, wit!’
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
— —'V
w y\
-J
*' ssrfc *
:n —. v"
k.
l. i '
\
-i n v,.—- -
t£- : —J
7/s Quality Never Changes.
1/9 per 2oz. Tin.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
Monday to '■'riday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/-
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’Hfite Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 12/6; or
0 la carte, minimum, 12/6
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
The Ambassadors New Delightful
Dance Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
SMOKE-OH!
Labor has gained no striking victories.
* *
The Anzacs made a reputation for them-
selves as tricksters. They even scaled Gal-
lipoli.
* *
According to a Melbourne doctor, it is
not easy to identify a skeleton. Yet when
the family one escapes from its cupboard
the whole' neighborhood recognises it.
The Tailor and Cutter is appointing a
referee to decide who are the- best-dressed
men in England. The world may then see
the duds that won the umpire.
When an Irish sailor was attacked in
Flinders-street, Melbourne, the other day
a .lew named Abraham Moss went to his
rescue. Abie’s Irish rose, as it were.
ONE OF THE BEST.
“You seem awful dopey since Ethel turned you down!"
“I am. A girl in a thousand! Returned my ring and
never a squeak out of her.”
You must have noticed yourself that our
ever-growing capitals are becoming cities
without skirts.
* *
The Jugo Slavs call their Parliament
Skupshtina, but it is nothing to what ours
is sometimes called.
# ¥
The modern girl in these hard days
Some compensation gleans;
For when she hates her lover's ways,
She falls hack on his means.
* H-
“Two spanking sites for sale.” —Brisbane advt.
How times change! In our childhood
there was but one spanking site, and it
was hopelessly unsaleable.
“Norman Stone had a miraculous escape
when his motor-lorry dived over a 30ft.
embankment at Chatswood this week. He
did not even lose the lorry.” The rolling
Stone gathered no loss.
“Why,” asks Professor Osborne in Mel-
bourne Argus, “does a dead animal look
so different from a living one at rest !'
And why, ah why, do they look so alike at
the barrier?
* ¥
“Safety zones are dangerous for pedes-
trians.” Quite true. Motorists never seem
to know whether a pedestrian on a safety-
zone line is to be regarded as playable or in
baulk.
* *
HOW IT REALLY HAPPENED.
The Prodigal Son began earning his evil
reputation at an early age.
“He wuz a smart boy at school,” said his
father, “but there’s something wrong with
him. He don’t take no interest in cows.”
“Must be a reg’lar bad egg,” said his
friend. “Why not make a lawyer of him?”
So the ne’er-do-well left for the city, and
soon became an expert two-up player. In
the years that followed Woop Woop heard
of him associating with painted females,
stealing motor-cars for joy-rides and being
elected to razor gangs. Came a day when
Dave, the Prodigal’s brother, arrived in town
on a holiday. The Prodigal met Dave near
the G.P.0., and persuaded lvim that there
was a fortune in buying 27 blocks of land,
which were clearly shown on a beautifully-
got-up map. Dave wired to Dad for the
money, but found shortly after' handing it
over that tin' property was in an in accessible
part of tlu‘ Sahara Desert. Calling at his
brother's office to protest, he was given a
dr’nk, and at once fell to the floor in a
swoon. He came to in the train for home, to
mid his pockets empty; the
Prodigal had even taken the
money for the new reaper and
binder.
The family at Woop Woop
heard of Dave’s adventure
with pained surprise, but, in
the stern struggle to make up
his losses, they eventually put
it out of their heads.
One day a tattered stranger
came furtively along the road
to the farm. On the verandah
he placed a blackened billy
with a note sticking out. of it
which read: “I’m stone-broke.
Been on the roads ever since
I came out of gaol, and the
people sool their dogs on me.
Give me a job at a quid a
week and tucker. I’m off now
to have a sleep.”
The Prodigal—for the Pro-
digal it was —was awakened
by a disturbance in the barn,
where he had been resting.
He looked through a crack.
Dad, sprinting in his direc-
tion, fell on his neck and
wept. He also cursed —falling
on the neck on a grave.lly sur-
face being painful. Next, in
response to Dad’s yells, the
whole establishment began an
eager search. As a farm-hand
—o bviously a Pommy—
approached, the Prodigal
intercepted him.
“What's going on, mate?”
he asked.
“The maister’s Prodigal
Soon’s coom whoam,” said the
immigrant. “He’ve toold Ooi
to hoont and fooind ’im.”
“Yes, yes! And what when
you find him?”
“Wlioi. the maister lie
saays \s be gooin’ to kill th’
fat-headed coo.” jj
K * *
Maltese emigration officials
say that all Australians
should stand up for Maltese
migrants.- Many politicians would, only they
are afraid of losing their seats.
DISMEMBERING KELLY.
Scene : Graveyard in «a Melbourne gaol.
First Gravedigger: “The skull wot I ’ave
’ere Ned Kelly’s was.
They ’anged ’im by the neck till ’e was
dead,
Then shoved ’im in a coffin full o’ lime.”
Hamlet: “Say ye ’tis Kelly’s skull?”
Second Gravedigger: “Too right it is.”
Hamlet ( taking skull) : “Alas, poor Kelly!
I have read his life.
A hero of the good old days he was,
And is so still unto the daily press,
Whose serials are read in all Pure Homes:
He would hold coaches up, rob banks, and
make
An all-round nuisance of himself, would
Horatio ( peevishly ) : “I hate this mouldy
prison. Lets away!
Hamlet : "Aye, friend. But. prithee, ere
. we go, stow these „
Within the dark recesses of thy bag.
(Breaks off two of Kelly’s ribs and hands
them to Horatio.)
Horatio: “Methinks ’twere safer did we
take a tooth.
Being minute, a tooth would scarce be
missed.”
PERFECT BLISS.
“I often wonder whether the things
you tell me are true!"
“What does it matter, darling, if
we both believe them?”
(If a inlet nods, and breaks two teeth off with
hand-wrench. Throws skull back. First
Gravedigger looks up.)
First Gravedigger : “’Old! ’Old! What
nve we ’ere? Two of Ned’s ribs
Pinched by you gentlemen as souvenirs!
Kindly return the goods to me at once,
Or 1 to the authorities will go.’’
Horatio (aside, as he returns the ribs) :
Now see how well my subtle scheme bears
fruit.
Though we be reft of Kelly s ribs, we still
Do hold a mortgage on the bandit’s teeth.
(They chuckle.)
Hamlet : “ ’Tis well, Horatio, but tell me
this”
Horatio : “Speak on.” _' _ .
Hamlet: “Why did they bury Ned in-
Melbourne Town?”
Horatio : “He was in gaol here. Ilis bold
spirit still
Haunts ev’ry office during business hours.
When a bomb hursts I seem to hear his
voice
Crying, ‘Well aimed!’ Never a gunman
guns
But Kelly, greatest, gunman of them all.
Applauds the carnage with a ghostly
cheer.”
Hamlet : “Why do the City Fathers then
allow
The skull of their great citizen to go
to Canberra?”
Horatio: “It is appropriate.
Gaze on that brain-container, Hamlet.
Come!
Is it not void and empty as a drum ?
(Hamlet scrutinises dkull, nods thoughtfully,
and both Exit.)
Siiak, Jtjn.
* v
"Australians don’t know how to advertise.”
— Vic. Railway Chief Clapp.
But more than one Clapp is required it
we are to make much noise in the world.
* *
The Prince says “S grave has proved
that a British motor-car with a British
motorist inside is the fastest thing on
earth.” Some of the girls H.R.H. met in
Australia think his memory must fye failing.
V • AC. >
“Sawmills At Work.” We hope to see
’em, too, some day.
¥ *
LIQUID MEASURE.
1 man .. .. 1 mug.
2 mugs .. .. 1 fight.
1 fight .. .. 2 policemen.
2 policemen .. 1 cell.
1 cell .. .. I magistrate.
1 magistrate .. 7 days. p T
« V
The serious girl will yet on well.
However the world man ucoff,
At work she's simply hound to excels—
tftill the frivolous ones gel off!
¥ *
“Iford”: A Red Page mention of the late
Sir Herbert Warren, sometime Professor of
Poetry and for years president of Magdalen
College, Oxford, recalls a tale about him
that had a wide vogue in my undergraduate
days. Warren, perhaps the most brilliant
scholar of his time, had been appointed to
the headship of one of Oxford’s star colleges
when he was little over 30, and was inclined
to be very shy and nervous, as erudite young
professors frequently are. One of his ordeals
was entertaining undergraduates at break-
fast and keeping the tambourine of small
talk a-rolling. One morning, in a wetter
month than usual, half a dozen freshmen had
seated themselves at the hospitable board.
HOME, SWEET HOME.
JIGGS: “I’ve solved the housing problem.
I’ve got right out into the country.”
BIGGS : “I see. And now you live in the
train.”
The host fell back on the weather for a con-
versational opening. "I am glad to see that
we had a little sun this morning,” he threw
out, rubbing his hands nervously. “Indeed,
sir,” said one of his guests politely; “I trust
Mrs. Warren is as well as can be expected.”
The president was a bachelor.
I MIGHT ’A’ KNOWN.
I might 'a' known slic'd turn me down
An’ leave me on me own,
An’ all I’ve got is ’alf a crou\ i
I might 'a' known'!
I’ve took 'cr out for nice long walks,
But now ter me she's shown
She wants too much, the way she talks —
I might ’a’ known
That she’d go crook at me because
] arst ’er fer cr loan.
An’ didn’t she jist show ’cr claws?
I might ’ a’ known !
A feller ’as ’is trials, no doubt.
’Er ’cart must he of stone,
For ’ow else could I take ’er out!
1 might ’a' known!
RIC.
WITH COSTS .
In green find gold the earth gowned ,
Each hush with summer glory rfowned,
And breathing rows to her he found.
Rare sport;
The world teas full of witchery,
A bird teas singing in a tree
(A mocking-bird it was), and he
Paid court.
But green and gold don’t hang around,
And summer’s glory soon is downed:
His promises SHE’d kept, he found;
In short,
The world teas full of plaint and plea,
A ‘bird’ teas singing for a fee
(A legal ‘bird’ it was) ; and he —
Paid court!
VICTORIA.
M.
SOMETHING TO LIVE FOR.
He was on his death-bed and not worry-
ing about it either. His every action said,
“What’s the use of living?” The doctor
entered. “Brown,” he said firmly, ‘the time
has come for plain speech. It rests with
you whether you live or die. I want you
to make up your mind to take nourishment
at once. What do you say?
“What is there
in life, Doc.? What
can"
“If that’s your
attitude, I have no
more time to waste.
Here’s a copy of
the S. M. Herald.
You will probably
be able to read it
for about five more
days.”
The dying man
glanced at the
headlines. T h e
doctor, even as he
opened the door to
leave, was arrest-
ed by a cry from
the sick bed.
“Wait a minute,
Doc.! I think I’ll
stay on earth for
a while longer, after all. I want to see
what Billy Hughes is going to do next. Tell
’em to get me a glass of milk, please.”
BILL BOWYANG.


BLACK & WHITE
.
mmWSm
-
%
.V..
#llilp#8»
i*~i £ y f s? -» ♦»«'V~ r " * -
&?? V * » J i *, ’/ - -«'//> * :
'<*» ” I V* m* *f V, „•> ',>>/' < ,p
■: * 4&>.
■■■■UHl
' '
§|Spg4|| |. , js*
igilil
■ ■ ■•'.
■>.-?
fe \
; $
■
■;. ; ;; - ■■'"
. * V
iiiiilisin™
: V '
. ;*s
B f
m
■
: ,
. V
WW
I
?
i ■
:-,
a
SCOTCH WHISKY
y
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., 1 to 5 GROSVENOR STREET, SYDNEY.


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Hoorn Only. European Plan.
Pining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder-
liimPSaSiS
mamiltoaffiegß mm
MM-
SB?
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
21.
EARN ALL YOU CAN—
SAVE ALL YOU CAN—GIVE ALL YOU CAN
Such was the good advice of John Wesley. You are, of course, entitled
to earn all you can, and no doubt are bending all your energies in that
direction.
Nevertheless, what you save will, in the long run, probably count for
more than what you earn.
Use the easy saving plan. Open a Commonwealth Savings Account,
and be faithful to it, for the sake of your future needs and that you
may be able to give when it is your duty to give.
(fainonwealtb saviiiQs JBank of Hustralia
( Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government).
jzetfm
■TV/.
mm
if
LiMWlf£nt
m
No Hotel in Adelaide
, gives such comfort
at small cost. Oppo-
site Railway Station.
Close to theatres and
shopping. 300 rooms
and 100 bathrooms.
Yale locks on every
door. Excellent ser-
vice throughout.
Write for Tariff.
»GROSVENOR
Fined Unlicensed. Uiotel
Opp. Railway Sm. North Terrace. Phone Cent 4041
A ROGUE IN AMBER
By- J. B. COOPER
lllustratioTvs by- Percy Llixclsey-
Synopsis: Implicated in Paris in
the murder of the liar ones s Bcllarosu,
tiaceaeo, a Neapolitan, escapes,
leaving his co-criminal, Frangois
Neigre, in gaol. Twenty years later
ho is in Australia with his wife Jean-
nette and their daughter Marie,
who exchanges impassioned letters with
Gerald Deacon. Gerald’s father, be-
fore his death, wished his son to marry
Betty Calcroft, a Mildura girl, who,
however, is loved by Jack Carew, a
farmer, and Edward- Felspar, an artist.
In Melbourne Marie sits as model to
Felspar, who had married in Paris,
but whose girl-wife had left him.
Felspar has received a certificate of
her death, hut this Saccaco, now call-
ing himself Carducci, steals. Shifting
to Sydney, Carducci is recognised by
Neigre, who had been a convict at
Noumea. Felspar proposes to Betty,
who is in Melbourne with her rela-
tions tfye. Clintons. She lightly rejects
him, and. lie misses his certificate and
reports its loss to Clinton, who cables
the Parisian police and is informed
that the certificate was a mistake;
the girl had not died. The police
undertake to try to trace her, and
Clinton says nothing of the cable.
Actually she is living with Neigre,
who is making Carducci support him.
Gerald, who had been in England,
inherits a small fortune and owns a
racehorse. Going to Sydney, he in-
duces Marie to elope with him, and
they marry in Melbourne. Carducci
joins them, and soon he is helping to
lose Gerald's money in punting. Mean-
while Carducci schemes to get the dan-
gerous Neigre out of the way.
ê
was that of her cousin, who was known
as “Piquante.’ ”
“Oh, James, what an unfortunate
blunder!”
“That news is bad enough.' remarked
Clinton. “But the cable that follows is
worse. Just listen: ‘Lisette Delas Felspar
transported New Caledonia. Suggest you
cable penal authorities, Noumea, for inior-
mation.’ ”
“Does that mean that Felspar’s wife was
a convict —a thief, perhaps, or worse ?
Mrs. Clinton asked anxiously.
“It means she was, or is, a convict all
right. There’s no doubt about that.
Whether she was a thief or worse I don t
know.”
“How awful! What do you intend to
do?”
“There’s only one thing that I can see for
us to do as regards Felspar, and that is to
show the cables to him. I’m sick of telling
lies about their non-receipt, and, anyway,
keeping back the cables is not going to help
him. If the woman is still alive—l suppose
she is; it’s hard to kill that sort—he’s got
lo know. The news that the woman is alive
will not be such a shock to him if it comes
from New Caledonia!” .
“But, James, suppose you wait until you
hear from New Caledonia, and then tell
Mr. Felspar the worst, or the best, as may
be?” his wife suggested.
“I’ve thought of that, too, but would it
be right? It has cost me some thought,
but I have decided it would be wrong to
keep silent.”
“I don’t think so myself, but you know
best,” his wife observed with a puzzled look.
"‘I know the interest you want, Jerry. Lend me, the money and
we’ll see what we can do for you later.”
“I hope we are taking the right course.
Won’t we be inflicting pain on Mr. Felspar
that could be avoided by having, patience
until we hear from this French place?”
They argued the position from their own
viewpoints. Mr. Clinton said he was
almost sorry that Betty, had ever left Mil-
dura or met Felspar, if she cared for him.
and he believed she did. Was it not re-
markable, he asked, that he and she, Clin-
ton and his wife, living out their quiet
lives in a pleasant seaside Melbourne
suburb, should be interested in the fate of
a woman convict, whom they did not know,
in a far-off French penal settlement they
had never seen!
* * * *
Felspar came to Mr. Clinton’s office in
reply to a letter asking him to call.
“Well, Felspar,” his friend began, with
all the kindness he could command, “I have
cables from Paris. I’m sorry, but I am
afraid they will give you a bit of a ‘facer.’ ”
Mr. Clinton
handed th c
cables to him.
Felspar read
them through
hurriedly, then
a *jrain slowly. He puff, them on a table when
he had finished. Obviously he had received
the “facer” the elder man had predicted.
“I cannot understand them,” he said in
distress. “Some terrible mistake has been
made.” He felt nervously in the inner
pocket, and took from it a paper. “I found
this in a corner of my studio last night. It s
a mystery to me how it got there.”
“What is it?” asked Clinton, taking the
paper. ~
“The certificate of the death of ray wife,
which I had lost,” said the young man.
“That’s strange. Are you sure it has nor,
been there all the time?”
“Quite. It was not there yesterday morn-
ing when I placed a couple of canvases
alongside where I found it,” replied Felspar.
“There’s something going on that makes
me apprehensive, and these cables from
Paris—l am full of misgiving. It, seems as
if I’m the victim of something obscure that
I don’t understand.”
“Don’t talk nonsense. It is a bit puzzling,
but the problem is not, I think, insoluble.
Is Carducci in Melbourne?”
“I don’t think so. I don’t know. It’s
unlikely. He’s in some business in Sydney.”
“That wouldn’t prevent him coming to
Melbourne. Carducci stole the certificate,
of that I am convinced, but what I cannot
understand at present is why he returned it.
Of course, you are not illogical enough to
suppose there’s any connection between the
cables and the return of the death
certificate. That’s impossible.”
“Yes, of course. I see that,”
replied Felspar hesitatingly.
He was clearly so distressed that his
mind was working a little slowly.
“I cannot imagine what Carducci’s object
can be in returning the certificate. And how
did he get into your studio and leave
unobserved?”
“I was away for a few minutes between
four and five o’clock. I did not lock the
door when I left, and when I returned the
door had been pulled to. I supposed the
caretaker had shut it.”
“Did you ask him?”
“No, it was of no importance to me then.
I might have done so if I had seen him,
but I did not. It was Saturday afternoon
when almost all the offices are closed, and
he’s usually off duty then.”
“I’ll ring him up, anyway,” said Clinton;
“we may get a clue.”
He presently learned from the caretaker
that his wife had locked the door after
seeing someone going down the stairs from
the direction of the studio.
“Does your wife know that man Carducci
who was my model? Was it he?”
“No.”
“Well, who was it?”
“An old man with a dyed moustache and
red face, in a black belltopper.”
“Any more?”
“No.”
“Thank you,” said Clinton. “No, nothing
is stolen, so far as we know,” he added in
reply before he rang off.
“Do you know the man?” asked Mr.
Clinton, describing the individual the care-
taker’s wife saw.
Felspar could not recall the man.
“He must be a creature of Carducci’s,
and, if I’m not mistaken, I know him, an
old lawyer, with a sticky reputation for
blackmailing. A death certificate would not
be an unusual document in a lawyer’s
hands. I believe I have it!” he exclaimed.
“That rogue Carducci stole the certificate
in the first place for purposes of blackmail.
For some reason —not from honorable
motives, you may be sure—he has returned
it. We’ll invert the proposition. Finding
he could not blackmail you by having the
death certificate in his possession, lie de-
cides he can blackmail you by restoring it,
and so the death certificate comes back to
you.”
“I’m afraid I’m too worried to follow
you. How can Carducci blackmail me?
What’s it matter about the death certificate
in the face of those awful cables?” Felspar
asked wearily.
“Wait, wait!” exclaimed Mr. Clinton.
“Cannot you see, if it is Carducci who is
working—and I’m sure it is—he has changed
his ground. He wants to put in your hand-
the proof of your wife’s death, of which he.
at one time, wished to deprive you. He has
two strings to his bow.”
“But why does he want me to believe my
wife is dead?” asked Felspar in painful dis-
may.
“IJecause he knows your wife is alive. ’
said Mr. Clinton. “He did not know that
when he took the certificate, but he does
now—at least, that is my belief. He has
every ground for supposing that you believe
your wife is dead. He knows nothing of
my inquiries* in Paris. He believes he holds
the trump card, and he’ll play it at the right
time.”
(Continued on page 55.)


. ’
M
m
is’
m
■ 1
rrm
n
¥:SJ>: : f5
H ') »
sisiH
0
—
i
smsmm***
t>
7
rbis


LISTER JUNIOR li-B.H.P.
HOPPER-COOLED ENGINE.
Totally enclosed; occupies mini-
mum space; overhead valves;
automatically lubricated; ball-
bearing counter-balanced fly-
wheel; throttle governing H.T.
magneto, and fuel feed same as
Standard Lister. Also in tank-
cooled type.
EVERY
British Buvvs
ENGINE
makes good
use of its
“HEAD”
LISTER JUNIOR 21 and 31
B.H.P. HOPPER-COOLED
ENGINE.
Very suitable for building into
portable shearing plants, jetting
plants, pumping outfits, etc.
Same high standard of mechani-
cal excellence and reliability as
the larger Lister engines. Also
in tank-cooled type.
BELOW.
LISTER 4| AND 6£ B.H.P.
FARM ENGINE.
These are the most popular sizes for
general farm and station use. The
standard equipment consists of 4-
gallon fuel tank and pipes, water-
cooling tank with connections and
3-way cock, silencer and exhaust
pipe as shown, belt pulley, starting
handle, tin of lubricating oil, and 4
foundation bolts. A complete set
of spanners, an oilcan, petrol funnel
and strainer, spare piston rings, pump
valves, a set of springs, joints and
packing are included. Lister
Engines are also made in a large
range of models to use kerosene fuel.
%
I
'V
IN CENTRE.
Sectional view of Ricardo High-turbulence
Head as fitted to Lister engines. Note the
high-domed combustion chamber. This
shape produces a whirling of the incom-
ing mixture, which is very beneficial.
Also practically the whole of the charge
is concentrated round the spark plug and
explodes simultaneously.
Lister Farm Engines are noted for their power output
and economy of operation. This is largely due to the
Ricardo High-Turbulence Head, a feature introduced into
the standard Lister by Lister engineers, who saw in it the
means of further increasing the already high efficiency or
Lister engines. It is due to their high efficiency and out-
standing- reliability that Lister engines are so universally
esteemed. Day after day, month after month, Lister
engines are working like Trojans with never a stoppage
for repairs or replacements. There are Lister engines
which have run for 1 8 years without a stoppage and are
still going strong.
Lister engines offer you dustproof construction, automatic
lubrication, pump fuel feed, fool-proof operation, more
power, lower fuel consumption, Rolls-Royce depend-
ability and length of life —and all at a moderate price.
Made in 4b $b 8, 10 and 14 Stationary or Portable
Also the Lister-Junior in 1 J, 2J, 3 \ B.H.P.
Write for full particulars to the Agents for your State:—
New South Wales:
Dangar, Gedye & Co., Ltd., Young Street, Sydney.
Queensland:
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd., Eagle Street, Brisbane,
v South Australia:
Horwood', Bagshaw, Ltd., Mile End, Adelaide.
Western Australia:
Malloch Bros., William Street, Perth.


£
n
Magnavox
W JKL DYNAMIC LOUD SPEAKERS
DYNAMIC —this word immediately suggest Magnavox, its originator
—the hind used by leading set man it facia rers —the dependable one for
you to buy. Hick—true reproduction with full volume... .every lone
'vividly distinct. With the Dynamic type of speaker radio approaches
perfection. Reproduction is now so faithful in sound and spirit, that
broadcasting reaches great new heights in entertainment and educational
value.
R lawless reproduction with a wide range of volume distinguishes the
Dynamic speaker. You hear, just as originally rendered, the full
harmonies of the symphony, the color of the dance orchestra, the fire
of the crater, the glory of the singers voice; all of these are yours by*
means of the Dynamic.
Dynamic speakers have literally swept the country almost overnight.
Australia has become “speaker critical” as never before. The public
now realises that the speaker is the big factor in improved radio reception.
Insist on a Magnavox Dynamic in the set you buy. Also available as an
external speaker furnished in a variety of furniture models to harmonise
with any surrounding.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL RADIO DEALERS
WHOLESALE & RETAIL DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL STATES.
By K.P.M. de Luxe Liners to
JAVA and SUMATRA
T.S.S. NIEUW HOLLAND T.S.S. NIEUW ZEELAND
11,000 Tons
First - class
Return Fares
to Java from
Sydney and
Brisbane:
£Bl
From Melbourne:
£B7
mamm
m h
First-class
Return Fares
to Penang and
Belawan (Sum-
atra) from
Sydney:
£99
From Melbourne:
£lO5
Largest, fastest and most luxurious Mail Liners, via the Great
Barrier to Macassar (Celebes), Java, Singapore, Penang and
Belawan Deli (Sumatra) direct.
Head Office for Australasia:
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY
(K.P.M. Line),
255 George Street, Sydney.
“Suburban ”
Afforestation
Every person who has read or has been told
about afforestation —whether he has invested
or not —should send for particulars now of
A.N.Z.I.L. PERPETUAL INCOME AND
THRIFT BONDS.
A gilt-edged investment and an entirely new conception of afforestation offering
IMMEDIATE, INTERMEDIATE and FUTURE RETURNS, with the soundest principles of
scientific and properly-conducted planting for profit yet offered.
Afforestation and Flax—Plus Interest and Insurance.
Investigate!—To do so is to INVEST.
AUSTRALIAN & NEW ZEALAND INVESTMENTS, LTD.,
17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
if any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
Pen anf Picture
Shadow Shows
“In Wolf’s
Clothing” is as
botched a thing
as The Bulle-
tin has • seen
lately. The
theme is quite
fair. Not hav-
ing had a holi-
day for seven years, a porter on a sub-
way decides to turn a night off into a night
out. He accidentally changes his identity
with that of an escaped lunatic who is a
millionaire’s son. This notion is strong
enough for a couple of thousand feet of
celluloid. Unfortunately Messrs. Warner
Bros, were so enamored of their unoriginal
idea that they made a 7000-footer of it,
about four-fifths of which should ‘have gone
to the destructor or been presented to the
Hottentots. Patsy Ruth Miller (in a blonde
wig and brunette eyebrows), Monty Blue
and some elegant photography are thrown
away on the confection.
Who was the dolt who advised the Com-
monwealth Government to ban the “Dawn”
film? Certainly the picture is an affront.
It is an affront to the British Hun, the
French Hun, the American Hun and the
Italian Hun, as much as to the German
variety of that barbarous and ignoble breed.
To anybody else it must appear as an austere
and beautiful thing. The production (by
Herbert Wilcox) shows the English mind
Great British tragedienne
SYBIL THORNDIKE.
and character
working on
their highest
plane and
(hat is a very
high plane in-
deed. It is said
to be histori-
cally correct,
and, in any
case, it has
the air of ab-
solute truth,
which comes
unconsciously
when a fine
mill d begins
to brood pas-
sionately over
a great theme.
The dirty fin-
ger of propa-
ganda is en-
tirely absent
from this
super-film. No-
where does it
libel Nurse
. . . Cavell by in-
dulging in cheap indignation at the expense of
her executioners, puppets of the war machine,
i- Vandyke’s is the finest, tile most
dignified screen performance this column has
seen, r rom the moment when her pity is
awakened by the plight of an escaped Bel-
gian soldier until she faints before the firing
squad and a sickened officer is ordered to shoot
her where she lies, she does not strike a single
false note. Artistically the film is a testi-
monial to the seldom-practised virtue of
economy upon the screen. Like Greek
tragedy, it stalks_ to its stark conclusion with-
out: a solitary digression along the primrose
paths of showmanship. British Dominion
bums has lately been busily engaged produc-
ing bad replicas of American goods. It is
pity that it hasn’t always the faith in
itself that this picture justifies.
Although some of the principals appear to
have been born with their lungs in their
boots, “The Doctor’s Secret,” a Paramount
all-talkie, is hereby given a hearty welcome
because it brings the brilliant stagecraft of
J. M. Barrie to the screen. The original
play is “Half an Hour.” It tells of the
woman who leaves her brutal husband’s home
to fly with a former lover to Egypt. The
lover goes down to call a taxi, is accidentally
killed, and the woman returns to her
unhappy nest before her husband has read
the letter advising him of her proposed
revolt. The exposition takes an hour —an
hour that on the silent screen would be
largely occupied in the chasing of express
trains by motor-cars, the flashing-011 of
idiotic excerpts from love-letters and other
expedients peculiar to the art of the panto-
mimic film. The introduction of dialogue
makes all this superfluous, and wliat one
gets is 60 minutes of psychological drama
almost as absorbing as the original work.
There i,y a sensational bit of action—the
street accident; and it is raised to heights
of appalling realism when a quiet voice say-
ing “Let me through, please—l am a doc-
tor ’ is heard above the babble of the crowd.
Ruth Chatterton’s acting is immensely
helped by the presence of her voice, even
though that voice would bo fitting in a
titaness. Harry Loder succeeds in conveying
the character of the husband with the aid
of a frequent and callous laugh. The voice
of a child slavey is simply ghastly, and the
poor enunciation of H. B. Warner—because
of his previous reputation, starred as the
hero—suggests that there is many a favorite
of the silent screen who will soon be among
the also-rans.
“The Great Mail Robbery” (FPO) is
as thrilling a mile of blood and thunder
celluloid, spiced with humor and unham-
pered with sentiment, as this column lias
seen for a month or so. It suggests that in
America the offensive-defensive war between
law and crookdom is being pushed as
vigorously as it is between nations. The
law uses armored mail-vans, radio, squad-
rons of ’planes, and trains packed with
marines and policemen, crooks retali-
ate with land-mines and machine-guns. The
law then launches into gas warfare. If the
film had continued no doubt the crooks would
have replied with gas masks, dirigibles, tanks
and bacteria bombs. It is nearly time Holly-
wood called a halt to this ruinous competi-
tion and held a conference to limit the size
of police cruisers' and crook battleships, and
absolutely prohibited submarine warfare
between the parties. To revert to “The
Great Mail Robbery” —The Bulletin.
which was brought up on old-time melo-
drama, was really impressed by the picture’s
efficiency in the matter of sudden death and
wholesale slaughter. Iu one place an aero-
plane tears along a canyon a few feet above
a half-dozen fleeing motor-cars packed with
desperadoes, and picks off one after the other
and sends them hurtling over a precipice.
This is even better than Bland Holt. In-
dividual acting doesn't matter in this sort
of sanguinary outfit, and so the principals
need not be mentioned.
The Palette
“C.Q.”: Colin Colahan, whose black-and-
white work has often figured in The Bul-
letin, will shortly hold in Melbourne a show
of oils, which will contain several pictures
of that traffic-torn metropolis, painted from
the interior of a motor of his own design-
ing. This studio consists of a Chev. van with
a large skylight. When the artist sees a
suitable street-scape framed in his wind-
screen, he parks his vehicle and sets to work
with his brush; the picture is painted from
the extreme back of the van looking through
the windscreen. To obviate undue exertion
the canvas is mounted on rails with a rope
and pulley attachment. Instead of retreat-
ing in order to observe the effect of a
brush-stroke, Colahan pulls the cord and the
easel careers to the front end of the studio.
He is so secure in his ark that lie can paint
in Collins-street without arousing the curio-
sity of anyone but a traffic cop.
Melbourne sculptor Paul Montford has
been deputed to execute the statue of A. L.
Gordon which is to be erected in front of
Parliament House in Spring-street, if the
State Government permits it. Montford’s
conception is more of a tribute to Gordon’s
horsemanship than his verse-making. The
poet has riding-breeches on, a pipe in his
mouth and a saddle at his feet. Still, there
is something to be said for the sculptor. For
one person who reads Gordon’s poetry a
hundred thrill at the story of his leap over
the fence at the Blue Lake, Mouyt Gambier.
“J.D.”: W. B. Mclnnes, Daryl Lindsay,
Norman Carter, A. J. Muir and others are
represented at the Imperial Institute Gallery
this (English) spring. The holding of the
exhibition was a great idea, but the work of
our veteran artists is swamped by that of
tyros from the other Dominions. Some of
the S. African work last year, for example,
was of the class seen in the “Art’’ section
of a backblocks A., H. and P. show. The man
behind the Gallery (Sir William Furse, who
was in Australia a few months ago) comes
of an artistic family. His late brother was
an eminent sculptor. But he is debarred
from making the exhibition eclectic by the
fact that it has to be an “Empire” one.
“Girefa”: How the great heart of the
public does love to be spoofed! When Marie
Corelli wrote in one of her forgotten works
of a wonderful symbolic painting that stirred
the world and brought fame to its unknown
artist, the intellectuals laughed. But when
Will Longstaff arrived with the “ipystic”
“Menin Gate,” the elect out-Corellied Corelli
in adulation. A cleverly executed tour-de-
force,' which. by its very fogginess could be
interpreted to represent anything from a
poppy-field to a camel corps, from mushrooms
to massed soldiery, Longstaff’s painting' , has
been invested with all sorts of spooky quali-
ties. To listen to spectators in the
/Eolian Hall during the showing in Syd-
ney was a lesson in human credulity and
imagination. I overheard watchers say they
“saw the figures move” and a woman recog-
nise a soldier bv his back. Dozens have also
testified to having felt the influence of the
spirits that guided the artist’s hand, though
Txmgstaff has publicly denied any spirit
influence, saying he just painted—that and
nothing more.
The Inky Way
“Third Floor Back” : In recent newspaper
references to veteran journalist John Gale
it was repeatedly stated that the ownership
of the Queanbeyan Age— started by him
as the Golden Age in .1860—has remained
uninterruptedly in the Gale family, and
that the old man’s connection with
the paper has been unbroken. I feel
sure Gale is not responsible for the
statement. His proprietorship ended in
June, 1891, when the business was purchased
by three young comps, from the old Cumber-
land Mercury— A. Dunlop, H. G. Skelton
and Theo. Cox. Dunlop remained only a
year, but Skelton and Cox carried on suc-
cessfully for about nine years. Later the
paper was purchased by one of Gale’s grand-
sons, who still runs it. Skelton went into
The Bulletin office, and a few months ago
succeeded the veteran “Bill” East as head of
the composing room; Dunlop lias been The
Bulletin’s chief reader for many years,
and presumably is. therefore mainly respon-
sible for the rag being as free from misprints
as any in the world.
“A.H.J.”: Edouard Aujard is the latest
Bulletin contributor to receive warning
from E. J. O’Brien that one of his yarns
may appear in “The World’s Best Short
Stories.” The industrious compiler did not
mention the story that caught his fancy but
Aujard thinks it is “The Sunny Side of'Sui-
cide. ’ published in The Bulletin.
“Dash D.”: .T. M. Walsh, who has writ-
ten upwards of a score of stories of the
% Wallace type, is taking another bagful
of MSS. abroad. London is his immediate
destination, but the young man hopes to do
some business with T T .S. publishers. Bulle-
tin artists Betty and Esther Paterson were
fellow-passengers in the ship that bore him
away.
“W.W.A.” ; Not content with making John
Gale of Queanbeyan (N.S.W.) a vear older
than he is (8.. 24/4/ 29), some of the news-
papers gave him a wrong birthplace. The
veteran journalist was born at Rodmin.'
Cornwall. He landed in Sydney 75 years
with two Mlow-Cornishmen. William
Ivelynack and William Curnow. Kelynack
became a famous Methodist preacher and
orator: Curnow. after quitting the active
ministry of the Methodist Church, edited the
outUvedte” 18 r “ rs - Galc has


M
5?
X
iv\ : xr
K'P
■
:>• #;
ifw
o
! 1
'.m
ipi
g:vi
i
l/6
per large tube.
Managing Agents for Australia —
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
■Rem Zealand Agents':—Van Staveren Bros., Ltd., Auckland , Wellington, Christchurch
new
Shaving"
Cream ,
Made, by the Valet
mgpr people
With this new cream even the best
blade will shave still better. It is
copious in lather, pure in colour (as all
good creams should be) and leaves
the skin invigorated and refreshed.
Buy a tube now and learn the “clean
feeling of a perfect shave.”
Shaving Cream
Of all dealers.
British made.
I I L
! IL I
I /
\ \
I I
LU
SBarsk
There’s a
big responsibility
attached to your coaster hub.
It must give smooth, effortless
running, and it must pull you up
the moment you press your foot
back there must be no uncer-
tainty and no risk.
The B.W. Coaster Hub amply
fulfils these conditions. Its
perfectly
dustproof shell
ensures sweet running, its
wide braking surface means
perfect safety.
It is a product of Bayliss, Wiley
& Co. Ltd., Birmingham, England
represented in Australia by
JOHN ARNOLD, Hardware
House, 386 Post Office Place,
Melbourne, C. 1.
V
G.P.O. Box 71.
o
C"
&
Ibj
DISTRIBUTORS:
Melbourne: Acme Cycle Co.
Sydney: Williams, Dredge and
Haydon, Ltd.
Brisbane: J. H. Cowley & Co.,
Ltd.
Perth: Atkins (W.A.), Ltd.
New Zealand—
Adams, Ltd.
Hope Gibbons, Ltd.
E. Reynolds & Co., Ltd.
BAYLISS, WILEY
AND CO., LTD.,
Birmingham,
England.
Wffi
COME NORTH
Where the Sun is Always Shining and the Sky
is Clear
WORLD TRAVELLERS Say: North Queensland is Fairyland. Scenery
Rivals the Best Anywhere. Whitsunday Passage and Hinchinbrook
Channel Surpass in intrinsic Beauty the most-famed Waterways of
the World.
CALM, CORAL SEAS, ISLAND-GEMMED, REEF-SHELTERED.
Vast Pastoral Plains, Wonderful Artesian Bore Waters.
;
m i
BARRON GORGE', CAIRNS RAILWAY, NORTH QUEENSLAND.
QUEENSLAND
For FINEST RAILWAY SCENIC TRIP,
Brisbane to Cairns-Barron Falls, through
vast Sugar Plantations and Tropical
Fruit Farms.
QUEENSLAND
GREAT WATERFALLS, CRATER
LAKES, CAVES, Tropical Blooms and
Colored Foliage.
Inquire regarding Bookings jor Railways “RESO' Winter Tours.
Booklets and all Particulars Free from: —
Government Intelligence and Tourist Bureau
Ann-Edward Streets, BRISBANE-
SYDNEY BRANCH:
56 Margaret Street.
T. C. TROEDSON,
Director


ACCURATE SHOOTING AT 500 YARDS
NEW IMPROVED CADET RIFLE.
Hundreds of satisfied Shooters have used
297/230 CALIBRE CADET RIFLES.
This is an ideal sporting rifle. Fires a central fire cartridge larger than a .22
calibre, and is accurate up to 500 yards. 24in. barrel. Under-lever Martini
action, quick and certain in extraction of empty shells. Detachable lock. Elevating
ladder rear sight and protected bead front sight. Fitted complete with cleaning
rod and brush 75/-
CARTRIDGES.—Long (actual size illustrated) 7/6 per 100
Short 5/6 „ „
Va
LTD
PTY
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
ē
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Locally-trained horses won the big money
for their stables at Rosehill on Saturday.
Booth nominated two for the Auburn Handi-
cap, Don Moon and Ulah, and could have
lifted the purse with either. He scratched
his own horse, a present from Otway
Falkiner, and saddled up Ulah, for whom
Falkiner gave 2000 guineas. The backing
of Bavarde (5 to 2) made a market for
Ulah (4 to 1), who beat the mare more com-
fortably than the neck between them at the
finish suggested. As he has struck form
again and is better over a mile than six
furlongs, the distance of the Auburn Handi-
cap, he ought to be worth following the next
few weeks.
Gwillian G. (Colugo—Soultoria) is a very
plain mare, but she can go a bit and is all
grit. Six to 1 for the Rosehill Handicap in
a field of eight, she fairly worried Itionscup
(3 to 1) out of first place, and had enough
left in her to repel Chuquisaca (9 to 2)
when that heavily-backed animal came with
a fast run at the finish. Simpson rode her
ably. It was strange to see a light boy
put up on the powerful and hard-pulling
Itionscup for the sake of a 31b. allowance;
stranger still to see New Sweet (5 to 2),
brilliant winner of City Tatt.’s Cup, lumber
in nearly last. There was hostile criticism
of the mare’s showing, but the stewards took
no action.
Bravado compensated the elder Hackett
and Westralian P. A. Connolly for past
failures by taking the Highweight Handicap
after an exciting tussle with Aorangi (5 to
1), whose owner protested on the score of
something or other —in vain. Five to one
was the official price about the Euglish horse,
blit any amount of 7 to 1 could be got a
minute or so before betting closed —eights,
indeed, were laid —and the tote, paying three
divs., returned £2 17s. 6d. for 10s. McShort-
odds had a good day and profited exceedingly
when Arrowhead (3 to 1) misbehaved at the
start: of the Granville Stakes —won by Yam-
bacoona (20 to 1) from the little Magpie
mare Eillom (14 to 1), who struck trouble
on the journey.
* * * *
For Canterbury Park on Saturday:—
Flying Handicap: Magnetic or Golden
Grist; next, Factor.
Nursery Handicap: Pure Tea.
Canterbury Park Handicap: Eden Hall;
next, Funny.
Highweight Handicap: Magnetic or Arrow-
head ; next, Prest.
Ashbury Handicap: Trahere or Waipori;
next, Roley.
* * * *
Caulfield punters had to seek shelter from
frequent showers last Saturday. Bookmakers
unprovided with umbrellas of the beach type
AN ALL-ROUNDER.
“How does that new member play?”
“Well, he’s singularly bad in doubles, and doubly bad in singles.”
hurried after their prey, whom they chased
back into the ring during the brief periods
of sunshine. One half-favorite caught the
judge’s eye. Club members who had wasted
financial substance in trying to pick winners
were diverted when, just before the conclud-
ing event, a gentleman started to disrobe in
the grandstand. Coat, vest and muffler were
neatly draped over the back of a seat, watch
laid at his side, and tie and collar removed.
There a stickler for the proprieties inter-
vened, and the incident closed.
Announcer, owned by land-speculator T.
M. Burke, headed quotes in the Khartoum
Hurdle; but it was an open betting race, and
he figured at 6 to 1. The Costello gelding
has a lot to learn yet about jumping. He
blundered several times, and almost fell
about half a mile from home when well for-
ward. On April 20 Epical was followed home
by Baldini and Lanilda. At Caulfield Epical
didn’t finish within pistol-range of the placed
horses. The new rider of Lanilda (20 to 1
here) allowed him to hit the front six fur-
longs from home, and this alteration of tac-
tics enabled the gelding to win handsomely
from Baldini and Seafit. In 1916 Jullundur.
half-brother to Lanilda, won the Grand
National Hurdle at Flemington. Jack Smith,
old-time cross-country jockey, trains Lanilda.
Bard of Avon’s success in the Metropolitan
of 1925 is fresh in memory. He was sent
across to Melbourne, and landed the Wil-
liamstown Cup a season later. S. P. Casey,
Victorian trainer, got hold of Epergne, a
half-brother to Bard of Avon, and put him
over fences. Epergne ran third in the Grand
National Steeple of 1926 and annexed a
Great Eastern Steeplechase at Oakbank
(S.A.). This year he has raced sourly over
stiff timber, tailing off and ultimately baulk-
ing at Flemington ; but it would appear that
he has recovered fondness for the game. At
Caulfield he fought George William for con-
trol in the Necrim Steeplechase, for which
he was at 5 to 1. Though out-jumped at the
second-last obstacle, Epergne had altogether
too much pace for his rival in the straight
run. He is rather an equine conundrum, but
cannot be dismissed from G.N. calculations.
Sweet Corn carried a 71b. penalty for
having won at Moonee Valley on the preced-
ing Tuesday: yet lie was paid the compli-
ment of being sent out in equal demand with
Gallopade (at 6 to 1) for the Ivatandra Two-
year-old. Gullopade is a filly by Top Gal-
lant from the dam of Irish Rhythm and
Chariot. She didn’t justify the high esti-
mate of her speed. Ridden out by “Ticli”
Wilson, Sweet Corn inflicted nearly a length’s
defeat on T. M. Burke’s Ample Time, by
Drake from Sister Patience. Berneil, the
top-weight, was a close third. Of the other
starters, Camargo, who set the pace, did best.
She is by Magpie from Maltine’s Daughter—
excellent breeding, this —and belongs to J. P.
Arthur, original owner of Fujisan.
Neville Percival, by exceptional and effec-
tive vigor on outsiders, has given Melbourne
punters many, a heartache. He carried off
the middle-distance Glenhuntly Handicap on
Cosy Rug (20 to 1), whose form in the pre-
vious few weeks had been poor. Bob Lewis
knows how to use the whip when occasion
requires it, but Percival eclipsed him this
time; Lewis was on King Mart, who lost by
a long neck. F. J. Mitchell owns King Mart.
He had an unlucky afternoon, Harry Gavin
being pipped by half a head in the six-fur-
longs Brighton Handicap. With a clear
passage, Harry Gavin would have been cer-
tain to beat Blematic (8 to 1). The easiest
victory of the afternoon was that of Claro-
gale (7 to 1) in the Glenferrie Handicap.
Trainer S. B. Ferguson makes rare on-
slaughts on the ring; when he does it usually
is a case of “put and take.”
* * * *
For Mentone on Saturday :
Mentone Handicap: Bethanga ; next Cosy
Rug.
Mentone Plate: Harry Gavin; next,
Double Duty.
Jj: jJs * 4
“Glenelg”: The South Australian Jockey
Club, having been perturbed lately over the
falling off in revenue, has concluded that the
1-2 tote is insufficiently attractive. The club
hus therefore decided to instal a straight-
out machine in addition to the place tote, and
a big increase in tote customers is con-
fidently expected.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
During his brief stay in the limelight
at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night
“Dealer” Wells, the South Coast boxer,
was going very nicely until he left his
features uncovered. The opposition, in
the person of Wally Hancock, speedily took
advantage of this neglect, and a fierce
left hook connected with Wells’s chin
and toppled him over for nine early in
the third round. Wells took delivery oi' an
other of the same brand almost immediately,
and was down again. He looked in such
a bad way that Joe Wallis granted a stay
of proceedings and crowned Hancock. The
lads weighed in at lOst. 31b.
Footbrawl
Melbourne started its League football with
an encore of last season’s final, the same
teams meeting again with the same result.
Collingwood, with a few local youths re-
placing ancients, fielded as strong an IS
as won the ’2B pennant. Richmond went
far afield to pick up stars, with the natural
result; one team worked concertedly, the
other was individually brilliant. A feature
was the Magpies’ accurate shooting and pass-
ing; 13 goals were put on without a behind.
In the end they had 35 goals 2 behinds to
Richmond’s 11 goals 1) behinds. A cold,
showery day kept the attendance down to
25,000. Carlton, which has combed the
State for stars, so overwhelmed the ’Dons
that they collapsed in the latter half and
could collect only 58 points to Carlton’s 131.
’Roy has discarded its old committee and
most of its players, and on Saturday ’Scray
walloped it by 78 points to 69. Hawthorn,
under the honorary coaching of Melbourne’s
former captain, Albert Chadwick, put up
a good skirmish against St. Kilda. but lacked
stamina for the last quarter—sB points to
St. K.’s 82. Geelong walked over North with
92 points to 54, and Melbourne’s Red Legs
did much as they pleased with South, finish-
ing with 80 points to 58.
* * :fc *
Bolton Wanderers, one of the oldest of the
Lancashire Soccer clubs, beat Portsmouth in
the final of the British Association Cup at
Wembley on Saturday by two goals to nil.
This is Bolton’s second win, the first being
in 1925-26, though the team has figured in
several finals in the past. Portsmouth,
though a League Club of long standing, was
making its first appearance in the Cup finals.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Rugby League’s second round
of the grade competition was played off on
Anzac Day, St. George and South Sydney
remaining unbeaten. Souths, for whifm. the
little winger Finch played a sterling game,
easily beat Glebe by 28 (8 tries and 2 goals)
to 2. In a hard game at Birchgrove Bal-
main drew, 18-18, with Western Suburbs,
for whom J. Craig turned out for the first
time for some years in Sydney club football.
On their home ground St. George had little
trouble in beating the weak University side
by 19 to nil, while at North Sydney Eastern
Suburbs drew with the local club, 10-10.
The third round saw one or two sur-
prises, the most notable being the defeat of
the much fancied St. George at Sydney
Sports Ground by North Sydney. Though
the Saints led 5-0 at the interval, the North-
erners went at them hard in the second spell
and won by 10 (2 tries and 2 goals) to 8
(2 tries and a goal). The winners got home
on their merits, for, though outweighted b'y
the Saints’ pack, they made the pace a
welter all through, and fairly rattled the
opposition. Carroll played a great full-back
game for Norths, and the back division gen-
erally was the better on the day. After their
poor display in the earlier games, no one was
surprised when Eastern Suburbs flopped to
Newtown at Marrickville, Newtown scoring
19 (3 tries, a field goal and four goals) to
13 (3 tries and 2 goals). The Newtown
forwards were well on top all through.
Scoring 6 tries and 3 goals (24) to 2 goals
(4) Wests, much improved by Craig’s pres-
ence at centre, made short work of Uni. at
Pratten Park. At Wentworth Oval, those old
antagonists Glebe and Balmain fought it
out again in a heavy game, Glebe getting
home by 8 points (2 tries and a goal) to 7
(a try and 2 goals).
(Continued on page J/.1.)
THE UNBELIEVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You see his luck had been uncommon crook,
An’ things were lookin’ pretty tough to
Joe. „ . . .
What with his run of outs Ins nerve was
shook, ~
I don’t expect he could’ve come so low
Except for that; hut when cert after cert
Falls down on you, perhaps it happens so
You come to think your own ideas are dirt
An' look for something sappy—l dunno.
Well, things, they say, aren’t always what
they seem, ... , ,
But there was Joe —inaggin about a dream.
You could’ve knocked me easy. “Look!” he
says,
“You know I’m not the silly sort of cow
Who sees a fire an’ goes an’ backs Ablaze,
Or tips Rod Riot when he meets a row.
But, starve the bees, I’ve picked ’em till I’m
sore,
And all on decent oil, that’s up to now;
Of course, I’ve heard of dreams an’ such
before.
An’ laughed, the same as y0u.... But,
anyhow,
The ways things are the books’ll drain me
dry, ... „ „
So darned if I’m not givin’ it a fly.
“ ’Twas in the middle of the night,” lie said;
“The missus was asleep without a care,
An’ me—l’m runnin’ races in me head,
When suddenly she grabs me by the hair
An’ squeals, excited-like, ‘lt won ! It won !’
With that she wakes an’ tells me then an’
there
Just how she saw the Sunset Welter run
-Vs plain as plain—the winner was Kil-
dare !
What, me! Believe in dreams? No more’n
you!
But—aw, I think I’ll risk a quid or two.”
Well, I’m not laughin’ at him, mind you,
though
I do me best to be the x antidote
When first I see how strong in poor old Joe
The poison’s workin’. Why, Kildare’s a
goat,
As anybody knows; between ourselves,
In a bush Novice he’d get. scarce a vote;
But Joe hops in an’ helps himself to twelves.
Then desp’rate-like he dives in to the tote
An’ takes some more. An’ tickle me f’r a
trout.
If this Kildare don’t go an’ muck it out!
Ah, luck’s a curse, an’ life makes fun of
men;
,Here’s Joe explainin’ how, all jokes aside,
It’s just a fluke an’ dreams are nonsense
when
Up goes the flag—“ First horse disqual-
ified !”
A lead-bag missin’—weighed in six pounds
light—
An" poor old Joe looks like he’s lately died.
An’ then—he comes to life, an’ says, “To-
night
The missus’ll get hell —unless I’m tied!
What for?” he snarls, his face as black as
sin;
“For wakin ’ up before the joclcs weighed in /”
VICTORIA.
MACESS.


What the Guillotine Test
on Golf Balls proves c*
c
r J fI" pVK
' Ijs r- V
-rSdrr. rrrrrrrr
-v^ rrr r r,rrrrr
i^rrrrrr^/;
/■<> c<"
rV/rrLU',
A'll' '
r r* r
I I r
rrrr/t ?
rrn
/
/
r rrrr» » • j
fifrrrr i lr
vt-r-rr.i'k
r r r
ijterr
§9
n-
VAd,
•
V\
I
iN
ipniii
KR.O
FLITE
MULTI~DOT
GOLF BALLS'
0/? the only balls that cannot be cut through
The special Guillotine Machine which
Is simply, a blunt weighted knife which
drops from a height about 1 feet on to
the ball, having about the same effect
tu a badly topped shot.
HPhe illustrations above show a Spalding Kro-Flite ball with two other
x well-known makes which have been through the Guillotine test —all
three balls having had exactly the same treatment. The picture speaks
for itself.
Where the other two balls are absolutely cut through, the Spalding
Kro-Flite has only two small dents on the cover.
THE REASON FOR THE STRENGTH OF THE KRO-FLITE
BALL IS GIVEN IN THE THREE ILLUSTRATIONS BELOW.
ĕ
ė
ę
FJF<OM ALL PROFESSIONALS AND SPORTS STORES
( AUSTRALASIA)
tsLOd.
PTY LTD
FACTORY: SUNSHINE, VICTORIA.
< Jfw New Multi*Dot
df (Jolfina Sensation /
N
<rr(
r\\
rrr
rrr
rrr
rrr
r<r
i\A
The fac-similc of markings
herein, illustrates the latest
thing in golf balls. If the
new ball is placed alongside
the old style at. say. putting
distance from the eye. nine
people out of ten will see the
new as larger than the old. This is purely an optical
illusion; but, bringing out the sphericity of the ball
as the new marking does, makes it easier to hit, and
discounts, to some extent, the mental effect of
“cuppy” lies.
A majority of golfers make the mistake of looking
down on the ball, rather than behind it. It will be
noted from slow-motion pictures, how all the great
golfers focus their attention at the back of the ball
Ti;e Multi-dot always presents a spot for concentra-
tion behind the ball. Look at that spot when
hitting, and a better shot will result.
Multi-dot balls are easily identified on the fair way
Four players using four different colors, can pick their
ball ten yards away.
In bright sunlight, and against the white sand of
traps, the Multi-dot is far less glaring to the eye. and
more easily defined.
As the ball ages in play, the Multi-dot serves in
contrast, and preserves a certain "appearance" in the
old ball.
Try it, and be convinced !


AIR TRAVEL IN
QUEENSLAND
«r
Brisbane and Longreach.
AH classes of aerial travel and transport
catered for. Passengers’ freight and mails
conveyed.
REGULAR ROUTE: Brisbane, Toowoomba,
Dalby, Roma, Mitchell, Charleville and North-
Western Towns now operating.
TAXI TRIPS: From Brisbane and Longreach
to anywhere in Australia.
MOTH SALES AND SERVICE: At Brisbane
and Longreach.
Inquire from
QANTAS, LTD., Brisbane or Long-
reach, or our City Agents:
Messrs. BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.,
Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne.
WEED
4*—
In mud, sand or slippery clay,
Weed Tyre Chains grip and hold .
They provide safe, sure traction
that drives the car or truck steadily
onward. Every turn of the motor
is transmitted into actual mileage.
Fuel is economized—safety assured.
Look for the name “Weed” on
every hook .
ě
WEED TYRE CHAINS
4037
POES
SAVE
PETROL
Wholesale Agents and Stockists:
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Footbrawl
“Birkenhead Park": Though there is
another football season to go before the
British Rugby team starts for Maoriland
and Australia, the international selection
committee has chosen 28 players provisionally
for the tour.' On paper the side looks easily
the strongest that has ever left Britain, and
contains the cream of the players from the
four kingdoms, including many who figured
against the Waratahs. Outstanding among
these is the South African Aarvold, a high-
class centre, who played, for Cambridge and
England, and now strips for Headingley, a
powerful Yorkshire club. Another notable
is Wakefield, one of England's greatest for-
wards, who will probably skipper the side.
* * * *
“Easy C.”: J. W. Breckenridge, recently
elected treasurer to the N.S.W. Rugby Union,
has had a varied sporting career. At one time
he was spoken of as a future tennis rep.,
while for a number of years he owned and
sailed the State’s fleetest 16-foot skiff, The
Rose. He is champion runner of Drummoyne,
and one of the leading billiard players at the
local Literary Institute. He first played
football at school, and was a member of the
State Schools’ Soccer eleven that visited
Brisbane. It was only four years ago that
he played Union in earnest, but it seems
that he will be a member of the N.S.W.
pack for many seasons yet. In England he
was classed as one of the best forwards in
the world.
* * * *
“Hooker”: The N.S.W. Rugby League has
suffered a facer tins season with the re-
turn of the Christian Brothers’ College at
Waverley to the Union code. In spite of
frantic efforts to plant itself in the large
secondary schools, the League met with little
success, save in the case of the C.B. insti-
tution, which has supplied it with some of
its best players, notably Benny Wearing.
On the other hand, many C.B.C. lads went
over to the Union game after their school-
days were over, and two of them, Meagher
and Towers, became Waratahs.
* * * *
“Amateur Pro.”: “Once the. Englishmen
get you they set out to get the last ounce out
of you, and then they will sell you to the
highest bidder among their opponents.” The
above is not an extract from the history of
the slave trade, but a statement by the Syd-
ney Rugby League player Carr, just returned
from a two-years’ engagement with one of the
Rugby League clubs in the North of Eng-
land, where, according to the tourist, foot-
ball is largely played with the fists.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur” : The Rugby League team
from N.S.W. and Queensland leaves on July
6, and will play 28 matches against the
North of England League clubs, as well as
four “county” games, against Yorkshire,
Lancashire, Cumberland and Glamorgan, and
three test matches. The. tourists get 70 per
cent, of the takings and pay all expenses save
rail fares. In the Test games the whack of
the visitors is cut down to 65 per cent., and
they will probably earn it all.
* * * *
“Gate”: As expected, the “investigation”
made by the N.S.W. Rugby League into the
causes of the feud between the Brisbane and
Queensland Leagues has resulted in the Syd-
ney body backing the State organisation. In
giving the decision in Sydney the other night
the individual who read the report could
hardly speak for honest indignation when
he came to the part dealing with the per-
fidious attempts of the Rugby Union to
ensnare the League’s lambs. When he added
(hat the Brisbane body had intended to
hand over its considerable assets to the
Union there were groans of horror from
every part of the audience, and strong men
hung down their heads in shame at the
very thought of such perfidy. How it will
all end, goodness knows. Meanwhile the
Brisbane League, serenely indifferent, is
going on its way, collecting large crowds.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: The White Australia policy has
found some rotten advocates in the East
Gippsland Football League. At a meeting of
delegates the other day it was decided to
exclude the Lake Tyers abo. team. This team
has given a good account of itself in previous
years, and at a charity match at Bairnsdale
once extended the Melbourne premiers in
the first half. One reason given for the
decision is that the abos. show boastfulness
and arrogance when they defeat the whites.
This is in sharp contrast to the urbanity and
sweet humility displayed by the barrackers
for winning sides in Melbourne
The Watermen
Sydney High School, which won the
N.S.W. G.P.S. rowing championship for
three years in succession and was second to
Shore last year, wiped the floor with all
opposition in the preliminary heats of the
eights and fours on the Parramatta.
The race for the eights was a particularly
dogged performance, for High started badly
through a lost slide. R. G. Walker, at stroke,
faced the situation well, and his crew back-
ing him up splendidly won by half a length
from Grammar with St. Joseph’s third.
The crew is a credit to the coaching capacity
of George Hancock, who has been responsible
for all High’s successes. The first and second
fours were also won with a bit in hand,
and here again evidences of sound coach-
ing were not lacking.
High beat Newington in the final of the
eights by a bare yard. Considering the rough
water, the time for the mile and a half,
9min. 19sec., was good. The first and second
crews were practically level to the mile,
and from then to the finish came
at one another in turn, each gain-
ing a temporary advantage. High had
the more in hand, and, challenged by New-
ington in the last 200 yards, came with a
sprint that landed them home safely. Walker
again showed rare judgment at stroke in
keeping a final kick in his lads for the
finish, and they stood to him well. Newing-
ton, which had beaten Shore, last year’s
triple winners, in the preliminary heat, de-
serves credit. Shore had villainous luck, an
outbreak of illness pecessitating the re-boat-
ing of the crew at the eleventh hour. Even
so, they were able to give Grammar a hard
spin for third place, the black and gold crew
only winning by three-quarters of a length.
The finals of the first and second fours went
to High and St. Ignatius respectively.
• * * *
“Blade”: The outcome of the race for the
King’s Cup on the Swan is uncertain. In
the absence of the Queenslanders, who ran
them to a head last year, the Wcstralians are
favorites. The boating, however, has been
upset by illness, and many arc expecting the
Mosman club eight from N.S.W. to lift the
mortgage the Gropers have established on die
Cup. Victoria, too, is confident that the
Ballarat eight which is to represent it will
bring home the bacon, or whatever the row-
ing equivalent of that comestible may be.
Tassy is an absentee this time, for reasons
well enough known. South Australia, which
a few years ago was very successful in the
competition, is making a noise like an
oyster. If Mosman on the Westralian crew
don’t get home first the Croweators will
probably pull it off. That’s as good a tip
as you are likely to get at the races, any-
way.
* * * *
“Ilotham”: The gloom that fell upon
Melbourne rowing when the Ballarat crew
donkey-licked the chosen State eight, and
took its place in the train for Perth in
consequence, has been a little enlivened by
the very sportsmanlike attitude assumed by
his employers to J. B. Suffren, the Ballarat
lad who coached the crew that licked the
eight that Cecil McVilly built —to follow
on a familiar theme. He gets leave on
full pay for the month’ he is away in charge
of the Victorian eight.
* * * *
“11.W.5.”: Rowed his last race, A. F.
Sharland, of Hobart (Tas.), at 72. He won
the Alexander Sculls at Hobart Regatta in
HIT IN THE HEART.
“My friend, I fear you have just read of a
severe personal loss.”
“My oaf; six blinkin’ fav’rites gorn down.”
1882-3-4-5-6-7. The only reason he did not
succeed next year was that no one would
compete against him. In four of those years
he stroked the winning crew in the Ladies’
Purse. Sharland also stroked the first inter-
state eight that was sent away from the
Speck in 1885 ; the crew, after some bad luck,
finished a good second. Amongst the pots
he collected on the Parramatta was the
Krugg Champagne Cup, which was lost, with
other trophies and Sharland’s skiff, when
the Tasman tripped over the Hippolyte Rocks
on her way to Hobart.
* * * *
“Shrewsbury”: It is a curious fact that
sculling—one of the most delightful of
sporting recreations available to the man
who is not attuned to cricket or football —
is not popular, even with rowing men. Many
amateurs prefer the gruelling teamwork
of an eight or four to the single game, in
which an oarsman may enjoy himself, or
try for championships, as it pleases him.
Certainly, the cost of a rowing shell is high,
but once built it will last a long time with
decent care. And there are one or two
Sydney boatsheds which always have a shell
available for hire to a man who can show
he knows enough about the game not to
fall out of it and drown himself. 1 am
moved to these reflections by the fact that
Bob Pearce, of N.S.W., has scared everyone
out of the Australian sculling championship
at Perth but one plucky local youngster,
Iv. Langley, who, though he is a lightweight,
is going to tackle the Olympic champion.
TOUJOURS LA POLITESSE.
POLITE PEDESTRLAN (a tennis fiend): “Your
advantage, I believe.”
AVitli memories of little George Towns, I’d
like to see him win. A victory of that kind
might get some of our watermen back
to the custom of 30 years ago, when every
rowing man thought ill of himself if he
couldn’t pull a decent scull in a shell as well
as an oar in a boat.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot”: The City of Sydney tennis
championships last week saw that clever
little player Hopman win his first big tennis
title in a rousing singles final against his
Davis Cup partner, Jack Crawford. The
game ran to five sets, and provided some
of the best tennis seen in Sydney since the
Frenchmen were here. Crawford was in
his best form, but on the day the little
fellow was his master, finally winninv 9-7,
4-6, 6-8, 6-2, 7-5. Partnered with Crawford,
Hopman annexed the doubles title also, the
pair beating Dunlop and Donohue by 3 sets
to 1.
* * * #
“Let”: The Australian tennis season is
pretty well over, though there is one more
inter-State match, that between N.S.W. and
Queensland at Brisbane, to be played yet,
after which there will be a lull until August.
The Davis Cup series begins in America and
Europe at the end of the month, 'and the
French championships at Paris, in which
Tilden will make his appearance. After
that come the Wimbledon meeting and the
Wightman Cup series for women.
* * * *
“Awani”: Last February I was a com-
petitor in the N.S.W. State champfonships,
and I won’t forget the shock I got when
told that the players had to do their own
umpiring. It is bad enough not to have
umpires in the handicap events, but to be
without them in the championships is past a
joke. The only matches umpired were those
immediately in front of the grandstand, and
one or two played by top-notchers. You
cannot play the game properly and watch
the lines at the same time. Out here in the
bush we have umpires for each set in even
a friendly match.
The Nineteenth Hole
The Ryder Cup, a singles and foursomes
contest between teams of British and Ameri-
can golfers, was played at Moortown in
Britain last week, and won by the home
side by 7 matches to 5. The Americans, who
were the cupholders, had the better of the
foursomes, but Britain took the singles by
54 to 2s, one match being squared. George
Duncan was the hero of the occasion, beat-
ing Walter Hagen 10 and 8 after playing
the game of his life.
He >;c sje s|s
“Budge”: “Bumpkin” (B. 10/4/’29) is
talking through his headgear when he speaks
of the rush of estate-agents and land-dealers
to buy and subdivide areas for the purpose
of forming country clubs on the American
plan. There is only one country club in Vic-
toria where land has to be bought. What
started “Bumpkin” off was the recent an-
nouncement on this page that the Moondai
country club, at Buxton, near Marysville,
was in process of formation. One has to
buy a block of land in this case, but the
owner of the property—a Melbourne man
who has lived on the estate for 10 years
or more —is simply turning part of it into
a golf club, with extra facilities for trout-
fishing (the two Taggerty rivers flow through
the proposed links). The other two or
three country clubs in Victoria, such as the
Peninsular, require a three-figure sum to be
paid down for membership. There is no
land-selling whatever.
* * * *
“Front Line”: Miracles may be witnessed
amongst the prosaic rubbish-tips of Sydney’s
Moore Park golf course any fine week-end
in the form of matches, consisting of almost
any number of players (a livesome playing
five balls is not unknown), which complete
the 18 holes without causing or sustaining a
single death. Two friends of mine were
playing one of the long holes on a recent
Saturday when they encountered a four-ball
match playing in the wrong direction. As
they advanced their second shots the four-
ballers, unaware, apparently, that they were
doing anything unusual, drove straight at
them more or less in unison. Near the next
green, which is on a rise and between a
couple of usually congested tees, caddies were
practising approach shots with their
employers’ mashies; children were offering
balls for sale; grey-
hounds were being led
about on leashes; and
family parties were
taking the air and
making derisive re-
marks about; the play-
ers. From time to
time a ball .would
arrive from one of the
adjacent valleys and
fall with an ominous
thud amongst all this
life and gaiety, and
aga i n on o would
scream past with the player watching
its flight in an interested manner from
a near-by elevation. The good-humor of
all concerned was the dominant note of the
proceedings—that and the complete ignor-
ance of almost everybody of the rules and
etiquette of the game. Anyone who has not
seen active service, and wants to know the
sensations caused by getting into an area
shoot, can satisfy his curiosity by spending
an hour or so near a busy green at Moore
Park on a holiday.
* * * .-j!
“Skinflint”: The recent decision of the
N.S.W. City and Suburban Golf Association
to strike a levy of 2s. per member on all
affiliated clubs for the purpose of finding
funds for a travelling coach to visit the
country clubs has met with unexpected
opposition from the very quarter that stands
most to benefit by the scheme, the country
clubs themselves. Another objective was the
beginning of a fund to finance the visit of
overseas teams and similar schemes to
advance the standard of the game in Aus-
tralia, and especially outside the’ metropolis,
where every club has one or more profes-
sionals available for its members. It seems
a paltry attitude to take. The average golfer
spends more than two bob every time he
breasts the nineteenth hole. Maoriland
has taken up the scheme with great success,
and Queensland is also tackling the idea. If
the N.S.W. country clubs succeed in crab-
bing the attempt in their own State they are
likely to be the only sufferers.
❖ ❖ ❖ ajt
“Claypan”: Magpies have been rival-
ling crows as ball thieves on Australian
golf courses, and now a new indictment
has been found against them. The
Wentworth Falls (N.S.W.) golf club has
alleged that the black-and-white musicians
have taken to tearing up the greens. This
they do, not out of the familiar magpie
devilment, but because the watering of the
greens has attracted to them earthworms
by the thousand. Like the English thrush,
the Australian fowl is a whale on worms,
but instead of waiting till they poke their
heads into upper air, as the British bird
does, the Australian goes after them with his
pickaxe beak, and that isn’t good for the
turf.
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: Leo Corry, one of a well-
known family of professional golfers, who has
been instructor for some time at Mick Sim-
mons’s Brisbane branch, has taken on the
job of professional to the Cairns (N.Q.) club,
succeeding F. Southcombe, now with Indoo-
roopilly, one of Brisbane’s youngest clubs.
Cairns, apart from its summer climate, which
is almost as trying as that of Sydney when
the humidity ratio is high, is not a bad
sort of place now that the crocodiles have
given up parading the main streets, as 1
understand they have done since I first knew
the dorp in ’92! Still, even if they turned up
on the links there would be a local rule to
deal with the matter. I suppose that
even the purists would not object to the
animals being treated as casual obstacles,
and lifted or scraped out of the way with-
when necessary.
(Continued on next page.)


0
a
8E«
REGiSroP
Ensure efficient running by fitting B.E.S.
SPARK PLUGS. A type for every car, truck,
tractor, cycle, aeroplane and marine engine.
Fully guaranteed. All garages. Price 4/6.
Manufactured by
Australian Spark Plugs Pty., Ltd.
562 Spencer Street, Melbourne, C.i.
’Phones: F 4947, F 5961.
Chain s--Chains - Chains - Chains
e
Australian-made—better than Imported
Support Your Secondary Industries
Non-skid, hand-forged chains for a Ford to a
7-ton truck.
Chains for Collieries.
Chains for Brickyards.
Pit-cage chains.
Lashing chains.
Messenger and Steering-wheel chains.
Sling, Snigging, Plough and leading chains.
Roller and Conveyor chains of all descriptions.
Mooring and Ships’ Cable chains.
Made from best Staffordshire iron.
The only complete chain worl:s in the Common
wealth.
All chains tested to Lloyd’s standard and
certificates issued.
BLOOMERS CHAINS, LTD.,
BRISBANE.
è
W. W. GREENER
GUNS
ARE SURE KILLERS
Wholesale Representatives ;
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY, LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE, CL
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: The big motor event of the past
week was Malcolm Campbell’s attempt to
beat Major Segrave’s record of 231.36 m.p.h.
on the dried-up lakebed of Yerneuk Pan in
Cape Colony. The car was a rebuilt one,
and not an entirely new machine like that
used by Segrave. In spite of that “the old
’bus,” as its driver called it, ran 21S m.p.h.
one way and 224 m.p.h. the other —better
than the 207.55 American record by Ray
lveech when he beat Campbell’s previous best
at Daytona. By all accounts, the Pan did
not turn out as well as expected. Campbell
said that he found it “terribly bumpy,”
while a high wind blowing lifted him from
the ground on occasion. Another item in the
scale against him was the 2000 ft. altitude
of the Pan.
* * * *
“C.C.”: The Institution of Automobile
Engineers has issued a scale table giving
the ratio of power lost by internal com-
bustion engines according to height above
sea level. Taking the engine’s capacity on
the beach, so to speak, at 100, she loses
71i.p at 2000 ft. 14 at 4000, 20 at 6000,
26 at 8000, and 32 at 10,000. Malcolm
Campbell claims that the altitude of Verneuk
Pan robbed him of llli.p. The contour
maps of the country, if correct, show
that he should not have dropped more than
7h.p. if the above schedule is properly worked
out. Certainly, as every Afrikander will
testify, it is impossible to get the same
capacity out of a car in 0000 ft. high
Johannesburg as in seaside Durban.
* * # *
“Fed.”: A lot of petrol has vanished into
evil odors since the first motor-car speed
records began to be tabulated. It is only
21 years since the first officially recorded
speed spin was staged; the ’bus, a French
car driven by a Frenchman, ticked off
89.24 m.p.h. That wasn’t betterpd until
10 years after, when a Ford—the name
seems familiar —recorded 91.37 m.p.h. Mil-
ton, the American driver, hoisted the first
record after the war with 156.04 m.p.h. in
a Dusenberg. Parry Thomas, later killed at
the game on the Pendine Sands in Wales,
was the first of the Britons to take the blue
ribbon in a British car. After him suc-
ceeded Campbell and Segrave, with Ray
Keecli representing America for a fleeting
period.
ft ❖ >l* ft
“Garry”: The battle between wood and
wire a . heels, which has been in progress
since the very early days of motoring, seems
to have been definitely won by the wires.
The drawback of the wooden-spoked wheel
is that, though it is immensely strong, when
it does collapse it does so like the one-hoss
shay—every spoke snapped and the axle
on the ground, whereas, under a similar
impact, a wire wheel is merely distorted.
At the last automobile show in New York
60 per cent, of the cars shown wore wire
wheels. 34 per cent, wood and 6 per cent,
disc. The disc wheel, an innovation of the
last decade, has never proved very popular,
though in the matter of lightness and
strength it surpasses the other two types,
and is more easily cleaned. Its extensive
use on heavy and ungainly trucks is said to
be the basis of the prejudice most passenger-
car owners have against it.
“Bo” : A recent Bulletin writer wanted
to know what are the most popular sizes
of gears amongst present-day racing-cyclists.
For ordinary track-racing, and particularly
for sprints, an 88 gear is most popular.
Those riders who go in for a 90 or 92 gear
generally get left when somebody “jumps”
at the bell. Dune. Gray, the Goulburn and
Australian amateur champion and Olympian
representative, uses an 88 gear, and the way
he winds for a sprint would suggest that it
is the ideal size.
* * iif *
Miscellaneous
“Blue Chalk” : The professional champion-
ship of English billiards has been won for
the second time in succession by Joe Davis,
his opponent being Tom Newman, who was
runner-up last year. Davis won with 18,000
to Newman’s 17,219, after a neck-and-neck
struggle with no remarkable breaks. Willie
Smith, soon to show in Australia and per-
haps the best of them all, did not compete.
Davis hails from _ Chesterfield, a Derbyshire
colliery town, which last year accorded him
a civic procession with brass bands and ban-
quets. This year the victory has been re-
ceived with apathy; there is little room for
rejoicing in British coal centres nowadays.
* # * ft
“Third Base”: The inter-State baseball
matches will be held this year in Sydney
instead of Melbourne, gate considerations in-
ducing the change. The Victorians found
themselves unable to get a decent ground,
and as the S.C.G. or the Agricultural Ground
will be available to the ’bailers in August,
the prospect of piling up some sorely-needed
shekels was too good to miss.
He * * *
“Lying Two”: I agree with sever another
contributors that bowlers are by no means
the innocuous persons they are represented
to be by those acquainted with them only in
a superficial way. Evidence of this was
given at an executive meeting in Sydney the
other day, when the matter of the team
which is to visit Britain next year came up.
The original proposal was that the tourists
should go via the Cape, engaging in matches
with S'African clubs. A strongly-supported
amendment urged that the team travel by
the Suez route, disembarking at Naples and
“touring the Continent before proceeding to
England.” It was also stated that many
of the wives of selected players will probably
elect to make the tour with them. I should
jolly well think so!
* * * *
“Weather Helm”; A suggestion has been
made by Sydney open-boat sailing men to
hold a world’s championship for 18-tooters on
the Harbor next year. It should draw a big
entry from the Australian States, but no-
where else in the world is this class of racing
in specialised craft practised. However, J. J.
Giltinan, of Sydney Flying Squadron, is con-
fident that overseas challengers will build
boats to Australian designs and compete. Sir
Thomas Lipton, for one, is considering the
matter, plans of the crack Australian 18’s
having been forwarded to him. Prominent
American sailing men have been approached
in the same manner.
# * * *
“Burgee”: In spite of their protestations,
the older school of N.S.W. yachtsmen are
gradually abandoning the old gaff-topsail rig
for the Bermuda, or “Marconi,” single
hoist. The latest convert is the owner of
the crack Sydney yacht Ilawhiti, beaten for
the championship for the first time in seven
years by the re-rigged Bona. The alteration
is an expensive one, for a pole mast of
great height is essential to the rig, and
these can only be obtained from Norway.
Bonn’s change to the new rig last year
cost over £(500, and Rawhiti’s conversion will
take a lot more than that out of the caslibox.
Sailing a big yacht is far from a poor man’s
game.
* * * *
“Bumpkin” : The monthly meeting of the
Vic. Croquet Executive was held in unusual
circumstances recently. President Glen
Roberts and nine lady members got into
a lift at 8.45 p.m., intending to discuss their
dangerous pastime in the business apart-
ments of the president. The lift stopped
a foot below the floor where the committee
intended to disembark. Every other floor
was tried with the same result, and the door
refused to open. So the council went into
committee. The final bit of business had just
been entered in the minutes when an elec-
trician arrived at a quarter to 10. A smell
of burning rubber from the electrical fittings
added spice to the adventure.
# * * #
“Bude”: If stag-hunting does not go the
way of pigeon-shooting in England it will
only be because the humanitarians lack the
help of the late Queen Alexandra. The public
is even more hostile to the West Country
sport now than it was 20 years ago to the
shooting of trapped birds. At the coming
election every candidate is to be tackled on
JACK ROBERTS, the hard-hitting New-
castle (N.S.W. ) pug, whose recent
performances have given rise to hopes
that Australia has developed another
Darcy.
the subject, and some of the most illustrious
names in the kingdom are to be found on the
petition for legislation against stag-hunting.
Unfortunately, the agitation threatens to
split the already divided R.S.P.C.A. from top
to bottom. Some of the most influential
members, such as Lord P.anbury, are hunt-
ing men, and they look on the proposal to
stop hunting the wild stag as a preliminary
to illegalising the pursuit of the wild fox.
Which, of course, it logically is. Further-
more, in the ranks of those who oppose stag-
hunting there are many thousands who are
equally opposed to deer-stalking and covert-
shooting. The curious position of the
R.S.P.C.A. is that about 59 per cent, of its
members, while strong supporters of any
measures for the protection of horses and
dogs, go in habitually for “blood sports”
which the other 50 per cent, consider
infamous.
* * * *
“W. G. Snort”: As was generally antici-
pated, F. C. Toone, manager of the English
eleven, has been honored with a knighthood,
just as if he was a pony magnate or some-
thing like that. No one will grudge it to
the tactful Yorkshireman, but the happening
again calls attention to the absurdly-
exaggerated importance which is nowadays
being attached to sport of all kinds, within
and without the Empire. Even W. G. Grace
was not deemed worthy of such a distinction
in a clearer-sighted day. Sport, like beer
and other things, is an excellent servant bat
JAMES HAYES, the Victorian trainer, who
recently sold the racehorse Dingaan’s
Day for 1000 guineas. He was a noted
jockey in the 1890’s.
a dangerous master. Already participation
in many sports entails a condition of semi-
slavery on the participants. Anything tend-
ing to encourage that aspect is to be depre-
cated.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur” : An interesting piece of
inductive reasoning fell from the lips of a
prominent N.S.W. cricketer the other day
when interviewed on the question of profes-
sionalism in cricket. Asked how profes-
sionalism could best be avoided —the inter-
viewer apparently ignored the ruling of the
Amateur Federation that all the Australian
first-flight cricketers are professionals—the
great man remarked that the higher the
amount paid to the players the more would
they cherish the ideals of amateur sport. It’s
a great idea. Inversely, the surest way to
turn a player of any kind to rank profes-
sionalism is to cut even his expenses, and
make him pay the costs incurred in playing
cricket and other sports out of his own
pocket.
:js & * *
“Ride Off”; Australian polo players are
beginning to focus attention on the big double
in Sydney at the end of June, for after the
games for the Australasian and Dudley Cups
the team which is to visit America will be
chosen. Harden holds the Australasian trophy
and Goulburn the Dudley Cup. Queens-
land is expected to send down a team,
but nothing definite has been heard from
Victoria, which, with South Australia, has
never shown much interest in the Dudley
Cup, though both have had a flutter at the
other event. It is possible that the side for
America may be selected from a single club,
with a couple of emergencies from another
Combination. Whatever the method, Tom
Ross, the Harden back, is universally tipped
as the only possible pick for the back posi-
tion.
=!■ *■ * *
“Aigburth”: London Daily Express
announced last week that if the Labor, party
was returned to power the creation of a
Ministry of Sport on the French model would
follow. This would control all the pro-
minent sporting and games organisations, in-
cluding the Jockey Club, the M.C.C. and the
Rugby Union. The two last, which are, in
spite of popular opinion, rather democratic
bodies, would probably accept the change
without tears. With the Jockey Club there
would be another story to tell. Self-consti-
tuted and without any authority save that
which it has assumed itself, this organisa-
tion, which chooses its own members without
reference to outsiders, is the final court of
appeal on all matters connected with racing,
not only throughout the Empire but practi-
cally throughout the world.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Facet”: A Brisbane man, Heiser by
name, has perfected a machine for cutting
gems. A demonstration at Australia House
aroused enthusiasm among experts, who pre-
dict that Australia and South Africa will
now be able to cut their own gems without
passing them through London to Amsterdam,
which has long had a monopoly of hand-
cutting.
* * * *
“Biltong”: What havoc fashion sometimes
plays with a staple industry ! In a lecture
on “London,” delivered in Sydney, it was
mentioned that £3,000,000 worth of ostrich
feathers, almost entirely from South Africa,
used to pass through one of the London ware-
houses every year, and buyers came from
all over the world to attend the sales, held
six times a year. A huge stock of feathers
is still on hand, but the trade is now prac-
tically dead, “principally because the ladies
decided to wear cloche hats”!
* # * *
“Zorro”: Maoriland’s tourist trade is in-
creasingly proiitable. In 1024 there were
7425 overseas visitors; in 1027, 0105; last
year, 0(500. Two-thirds of them are from
Australia.
* * * *
“Lakemba”: Touching artificial silk made
from megass (B. 10/4/’29), there is no
such factory as yet at Gordonvale (Q.). Dr.
Brown, representing the co., found every-
thing suitable for the establishment of a
factory at that place, but struck difficulty
in obtaining the land. The piece he picked
out is growing a heavy crop of cane, and the
owner wants a high price. One phase of the
project has not yet been made public, and
that is whether the Mulgrave mill will get
enough for the megass to compensate it for
the extra cost of fuel. All the megass is at
present burnt in conjunction with wood, and
makes a considerable saving in the fuel bill
each year.
* * * *
“Sheelali”: Shipping cos. are aggrieved
because Tus. apple-growers are 50,000 cases
short in their English consignments. The
cos. allege that growers are holding fruit
back on account of good prices ruling in
Sydney and Brisbane, and threaten retalia-
tion. Five per cent of orchardists may be
doing this, but the other 95 per cent, haven’t
the fruit to send. The man next door to me
shipped 5000 cases to England last year;
this season lie can’t rake up 500. At the
death knock last year growers’ space was
reduced 25 per cent., but their grievance got
no big newspaper headlines.
* * * *
“Ex-Grocer”: For years grocery as a
trained vocation has been passing, the pack-
ing-house having turned into proprietary
articles countless dry-goods once weighed and
wrapped in shops. Now- cash-and-carry is
knocking in the last coffin-nail. Once the
grocer knew something of the origin, blend-
ing, scientific value and quality-grades of the
commodities he handled ; now, he (or, rather,
she) merely hands down a packet from a
price-marked shelf. Even cheese is served
in a carton, dried fruit in a sealed container
and sliced bacon in a tin. I’m not saying
the present mode is not as efficient as and
more sanitary than the past, but it’s the end
of the old grocer.
* * * *
“Der Jong”; Peach wine is a common-
place in South Africa, as is peach brandy,
and there is little difference between the two
in kick, save that the wine is sweeter than
the other brand of chain-lightning, and
involves an infinitely more villainous head
next morning. Otherwise it is closely akin
to the peach liqueurs sold in most Sydney
hotels. The cloudiness mentioned in a recent
par. can be remedied by refining with ising-
lass. The Afrikanders use white of egg.
* * * *
“Sol Malaprop”; Some of the methods of
the N.S.W. Government Printer, or the
people he prints for, have a fearsome interest.
I saw a daily-paper notice of N.S..W. “Fac-
tories and Mines” statistics to June, 1928,
and hastened to the office to purchase a copy.
I acquired a pamphlet inscribed “1927-28,
Part V., Factories and Mines,” but the fac-
tory information stopped at June, 1927. I
wrote asking when something with informa-
tion to June, 1928, would be available, and
enclosed a stamped and addressed envelope.
Some other letter may have been mixed with
mine, for the response was that the 9d. I
had sent was insufficient, but on receipt of
another penny the department would hasten
to dispatch “Part V., 1927-28”—the same old
dud which I had in hand already with facts
to June, 1927. I naturally disclaimed the
mysterious 9d., and inquired once more when
something covering the 12 months from June.
1927, to June, 1928, might be hoped for. A
final communication explained that there was
no visible or audible hope of getting 1928-29,
which, I presume, will be 1928-29 on the
cover and 1927-28 inside, till 1930. Yet I
don’t really want to hurry anybody.


"ir
Wi
"I
JU'
U
spin
>
as
*
C
Q
O
S
Ride with
Confidence on
GOODYEAR TUBES
Balloon
Inner Tubes are not
just tubes—they’re really
Pillows of Air. Relaxing
Comfort, freedom from
jerks and jolts, luxurious
ease, all belong to the
motorist who uses Good-
year Tubes.
GOOD


Under
Royal
Warrant
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY
CHAMPAGNE
Q»artesncidsie»>
REIMS
ToH.M.
GeorgeV
PELLISSOIM
Cognac Brandy.
IO YEARS OLD.
Australasian Asrerta—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Efte WENTWORTH
Unanimously voted the Coolest Place in Sydney, it is the
choice of the discriminating hostess for the entertaining of her
guests, afternoon or evening.
On Mondays the whole of the Ballroom and Palm Court is
reserved for Bridge Players. Other afternoons, ‘ Lyn Christie
and his rhythmic symphonists make fly the hours between
3 and 5.30.
A perfect cuisine, exhilarating music, a satin-smooth floor —
what more could you have to make your Dinner or Supper
Party an unqualified success?
Order Wines before 6 p.m.
For Tables, Ring 1 361
52 Macleay St.
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE. POTTS
POINT
(Located within the City Boundary, seven
minutes jrom G.P.0 .)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 150 Rooms, is now open and
features Two-, Three- and Four-
room Suites, each with Bath; also
Single and Double Rooms. Central
Heating, Running Water and
’Phones installed in each room.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views.
Weekly inclusive tariff,
from £5/5/-
Daily, from
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines) ; Tele-
graphic address: “Fifmac,” Syd-
ney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
SHEER
CHIFFON
SILK
HOSIERY
Blue sky and soft breeze enfolded Syd-
ney’s Anzac Day commemorations. It
seemed as though the very elements would
drip balm into the wounds made in that
long-ago dawning on Gallipoli, and in far-
off days at Pozieres and Mouquet Farm. As
early as half-past four wrciuiis were Dei. g
massed on the Cenotaph. Every State and
Maori land sent a tribute, and over this
grey morning ceremony Dean Talbot’s voice
flowed with sonorous dignity.
By ten o’clock the Domain before Govern-
ment House was a spirited picture. Bat-
talion colors caught the now bright sunlight;
medals flashed; mounted police swung into
position; ’planes droned through the blue
terraces of air; snowflakes of Jjunior
Prossers floated here and there, suggesting the
wings of Hope as they fluttered from Pan-
dora’s box after the flight of miseries. Blinded
soldiers stepped into their marching line;
light horse and foot-sloggers. Down Bridge-
street and through George-street to Martin-
place they went, between the throngs of a
city remembering its sorrow —and its glory.
Into Martin-place, they swung past the
Cenotaph, now heaped high with leaf and
flower; and so, while the bells in cathedral
belfries pealed and clashed, on to the Domain,
where the united memorial service was
held.
Here while the leaves trembled and the
grasses quivered and the Union Jack and
Australia’s flag flew proudly, men in in-
adequate words tried to paint the unfading
story of those who gave their youth and life
for their country. Words and hymns, the
sombre majesty of Chopin’s Funeral March,
the exquisite loneliness of the Last Post
flowed in a wave of desolation over the
hearts, thousands of them already bowed
down with sadness.
“Lest We Forget” thunders Mr. Kipling’s
“Recessional”; but Anzac mothers (most of
them old ladies now) and wives and cobbers
know there is no forgetting.
Enough ribbon to put a girdle round the
earth was used up over the Head of the
River contest on Saturday: Cabarita Reserve
was as rainbow-hued as a Gargantuan bruise
on the mend, and cars by the million were
parked for nearly three miles back from the
point of its nose. But the real fun of the
day was with the water craft. These
varied in size from ferry to canoe and
were as top-heavy with the girl as with the
young male of the species. Not the “sesame
and lily” girl that Ruskin told about, but
the he-says-to-me and shrilly girl who will
have just as much say in the spatting or
unspatting of Prime Ministers as the men of
the family. What a fine healthy uproar the
river was in till High regained its proud
place in the rowing world by winning the
Eights (after a start-to-finish fight with New-
ington) and the First Fours. Then
gradually the tumult and the shouting died,
and by moonrise the silver stretches of the
Parramatta were at peace once more.
G.-G. Stonehaven keenly followed the
year’s races from the official ferry, Lady
Hopetoun, and later in the same good craft
grew eloquent over the fine exhibition of
the youth of Australia.
Yet you must have noticed that the great
event wasn’t this time allowed to fill so
large a space in most of the daily papers.
While scarcely daring to throw even a drop
of cold water upon it, more than one school
head has been feeling uncomfortable about
the ultra-prominence given to what, after
all, is only a sporting event. So the whisper
reached the right ears, with quite satis-
factory results.
Somebody, probably Shakspeare, gets a kick
out of the annual parade of characters from
the Bard’s tragedies and comedies. Several
years ago the English-Speaking Union dropped
on the idea of combining birthday wishes to
William and its own Autumn frivolities.
That first cud of success still furnishes the
Union with an idea, and yearly the local “cos-
tume” shop lets out the beefeater’s ruff, the
swashbuckling cape and the spreading petti-
coat, while any hapless silverfish taking port
in the seat of Drake’s pants is hounded with
as much ferocity as if it were the Spanish
Armada. '
Still, Peace being the bird pursued by the
Union, that lady ushered in the pageant the
other night at David Jones's, and, probably
in compliment to the Dollar Land, she was
gilt-edged, even to her wings. Light as a
dancing sunbeam, Lallah Moekbell floated the
length of the great ballroom and then back
again to the foot of the stone steps down
which Elizabeth and her Court stepped into
the arena. Probably the real Queen Bess
wpuld never have recognised Mistress Peace,
who seems to have been absent from Court
during the monarch’s reign. However, Miss
Elizabeth Plummer, who swept past in
queenly fashion in white brocades blazing
with jewels, threw her a smile of encourage-
ment. Lawrence Campbell was not unim-
pressive as the dramatist. Palely, as though
meditating the export price of eggs and but-
ter, walked young Hamlet of Denmark.
Cardinal Wolsey seemed to be saying in a
confidential manner to Archbishop Parker
and his wife: “I may be old-fashioned, but
I do believe in a little red flannel next the
skin.” Juliet stepped demurely with her
Romeo; and one Philistine clapped Caliban
loudly—she thought he was meant to repre-
sent the income-tax collector.
“Too far!” was the verdict of those who
went by taxi to the dance on the Narkunda
on Friday. The big P. and O. boat lay in
Jones’s Bay, Pyrmont, and with its lights
and bunting suggested the Aurora Australis
under an antarctic moon, for it was the
bitterest April night Sydney had known
for 18 years.
The flutter was to aid the JNavy League,
and was the society “charity”. of the week.
Everything had been done to make even the
dancing decks impregnable to the withering
blast, and after the first half-hour shawls
and coats wore discarded, and chiffons and
tulle bubbled forth. Elaine de Chair was
hostess for the Navy League, and Mrs.
Mackay Sim did the honors for the com-
pany which had lent the boat. Elaine wore
ankle-length turquoise blue sprayed with
silver, and fitted in with the color scheme
of the night. Black and palest of pink chif-
fons provided the groundwork for heavy
embroideries of jet and sequins in Mrs.
Mackay Sim’s wear.
Lady de Chair and the Governor literally
blew in after the French Alliance party
at the Ambassadors. A spirited moment
occurred when an attendant, laden with the
presentation bouquets which had been kept
on the ice till the last moment, raced the
National Anthem along a mile or so of deck.
He beat the last bar, too, and had thrust
the crimson and white glories on the right
committee-lady before the last note had died
away. If the Admiral and his consort heard
the commotion they didn’t waggle an eyelash,
but gave George Rex their rigid attention
throughout. Mrs. George Vivers, who arrived
with the vice-res., looked very beautiful in
her lily-white chiffons topped by a snow-
queen’s coat that had a deep collar cape of
sable. Ann Jamieson, more like a Stuart minia-
ture than ever, had golden roses blooming
on her black tulles. Lady de Chair com-
bined diamonds, pinkly-tinged chiffons with
a rhythmic shoulder drape and her very nice
smile; Admiral Hyde’s bride and Mrs. Le?
Quick both turned on frocking warm in tone
as the red wines of Australia 1 . Black and
silver intensified Mrs. Val Osborne’s good
profile. Marjorie Luscombe Newman looked
like something from a Pavlova ballet in her
rosy tulles, all fussed and frilled. Harry
Budge squired a pretty daughter; Margaret
Chisholm and Beatrice Laurie were the
night’s debs., and were led by Mrs. John
Garlick to the vice-regal carpet. The Kelso
Kings were there. Cecile Waley put a dash
of chrome yellow into the canvas; and the
handsomest couple were A.B.C. bank-
manager Shannon and his*tall bride.
The girl in this Mav Moore picture, who
looks as though she has the gift of listen-
ing as well as talking, is Jessie Tait, a
daughter o f
theatrical E.
J. A slim
creature with
red-gold hair,
she has a flair
for showman-
ship, and is
organising, a
super - manne-
quin parade in
aid of • th e
Kindergar ten
Union. This
will curl
among the
tables of the big
bridge party
arranged for
May 9 at
David Jones’s.
Most of the
mannequins
will be old
Fren s h a m
girls.
It was a brilliant and merry gathering at
the Ambassadors when the Alliance Franqaise
had a dance prefaced by Moli&re’s “Bourgeois
Gentilhomme.” The Governor and Lady de
Chair enjoyed the comedy, in which the
principal was president Alfred W underlich,
who played the awkward nouveau riche with
aplomb. Belgium’s Consul-General Segaert
gave a finished performance of the philo-
sopher of the play. Mrs. George Vivers, an
excellent French scholar, accompanied the
vice-regals, who were “aided” by son Graham.
Consul-General Nettement, with a string of
decorations adorning his lapel, and his smil-
ing little wife, gowned in white georgette
crystal-beaded, were early in the vestibule
to present a bouquet tied with the tricolor
to Lady de Chair. After the comedy the
players danced in their Louis XIV. cos-
tumes.
The Hospice for the Dying in Darling-
liurst proved the wide sympathy its work
evokes by the crowd of dancers who filled
the Wentworth on its behalf. The ball,
which is a yearly money-raiser, captured
not only the doctors of the llospice and their
ladies, but a big crowd of the honoraries
'from St. Vincent’s, the big sister across the
road. There had to be very close settle-
ment among the tables to allow important
people a position even on the fringe of the
ballroom floor.
Dr. Slattery’s fair lady was the ball’s pre-
sident, and ruled over the official table in
madonna-blue georgettes and silver. Jose-
phine Marks, the energetic organising secre-
tary—responsible for the souvenir pro-
grammes that carried a hundred pounds’
worth of advertisements —emerged trium-
phant from ruby velvets. Mrs. Harry Bur-
rell was draped in cobwebby vellum lace.
Mrs. J. Coen’s black chiffons with . their
arabesque of white roses won the admiring
gaze. Violet Lavery, Mrs. 1). Calialan and
Mrs. M. J. O’Neill were other well-dressed
adjuncts at the vice-regal table. One little
deb., Barbara Benbow, like a Dresden figur-
ine in white moire and net, received the social
accolade from Lady de Chair, whose own
frock glinted with the fires of the black opal.
Elaine wore pensive blacks, and son Graham,
tall and fair, took the floor with Myrine Col-
lins, the Hospice queen in the firemen’s car-
nival —very small and raven-haired and vivid
in her flaming-pink froeking.
Miss Glenn McGarrity, who was recently
re-elected lion, secretary of the Society of
A u s t r alian
Composers and
Authors, is set-
ing to music a
dramatic poem
for Mary Gil-
m ore. The
poem has the
rather un-
usual name of
“L in e n for
Pillows,” and
deals with a
forsaken
maiden who
magnanimous-
ly wishes her
false lover the
best of every-
thing, includ-
ing always
“Linen for
Pillow s.”
Glenn is a
clever musician
who has written and set to music several
songs. The S.A.C.A. could have found no
more energetic secretary.
Newingtonians past and present nodded to
the school’s tame Wyvern, which proudly
breathed the air at David Jones’s, early last
week. The school’s black and white were
much in evidence in the decorative scheme,
and wristlets of tiny white roses on black
ribbon indicated members of the committee.
The dance was organised by the Parents and
Friends’ Association to aid the college exten-
sions. Dame Mary Cook, who is president
of this association, wore the college colors
in black velvet with diamond buckles. Leonie
P>ond’s black taffetas featured an outsize
bustle bow. Peggy Windon, who had shared
with Mrs. W. H. Brett the job of secretary,
glowed in roseate georgettes; and treasurer
Mrs. Halse Rogers splashed red roses over
her black chiffons.
The State Excellency will bless the Picton
Lakes T.B. Settlement on Sunday, May 12.
The village is between Picton and Mittagong,
and that’s one of the best day’s motor-runs
around Sydney. Hot water will be supplied
at the settlement to visitors wishing to make
a picnic lunch.
A new vista of practicable motor-runs is
slowly spreading out. Last Friday we
opened the bridge at Tom Ugly’s, where for
years past on holidays and week-ends a punt
has struggled with impatient queues. To
people who had fumed in that queue for four
or five hours the beauties of Port Hacking
and National Park no longer existed. The
toll bridge will open them all up again. Some
day the road to Newcastle will be made
anew, and then the wonders of the fat North
Coast will be a joy for winter tourists.
Meantime the best that can be offered is a
new round trip to Mt. Victoria via Kurra-
jong and Bell, and home by the old corru-
gated Western-road.
Richard Stanton saw the profits run off a few
subdivisions last week, for the most richly-
frocked wedding of the seven days was that
of daughter Audrey. The young man is
Robert Benson Jowitt, of Hollens Park,
Yorks. Columbine’s wedding dress might
have looked something like the snowdrift of
tulle that flowed and melted about the Edge-
eliff girl with the red-gold hair. The effect
was gained by layers on layers of tulle.
The skirt formed the train of this picture
frock, gradually coming longer from the sides,
till it stretched into a train three yards long.
Half-wreaths of gardenias, shading from white
to cream and tied with Louis tin l Four-
teenth bows of silver ribbon, ornamented
the right side of the skirt, and the same
sort of bow and blossom were entangled in
the mesh of train. Sister Beryl and Helen
Cohen ’maided, emerging from petallcd frocks
of rose-du-barry chiffon worn with caressing
little pink-feather hats. The Wentworth
was engaged for the toast-giving; here Mrs.
Stanton received in a frock of sapphire lace
ornamented with one of the new short sleeve-
less coatees.
St. Mark’s, at Darling Point, was the
objective of Margaret Beryl Williams, of
Armidale, and Leighton Sherrington Kenyon,
of Double Bay, one night last week. Canon
Lea had the fire in his smithy blazing and
tin; gyves ready, and tin* welding was done
with expert dexterity. Lace was the chief
ingredient in this pretty bride’s outfit. It
swooped in peacock lines down to her slip-
per-heels, and woven in silver it gleamed in
a moonlit train up tin? length of the aisle.
Eileen Morrow, of Rose Bay, was up with
the lark one morning last week to answer
when Father O'Regan at St. Pat’s asked
if she was ready to cleave to Major 1).
Loneragun, M.C., in good times and lean. The
Major affirmed a like readiness with regard
to the lady. All this as early as eight by
the clock. Ivory lace, fashioned in the way
of the Tudor period, a Limerick lace veil
and a tulle train that flowed like the Fitzroy
Falls surrounded the bride with beauty, and
later the wedding breakfast at Petty’s was
surrounded by happy guests.
The chapel of Shore Grammar was stately
with white gladioli when Helen King, of
Hunter’s Hill, sought its blessing on her wed-
ding with Noel Fraser. Bride’s brother
Charles steered her foam of lace and chiffon
to the altar, where padre I). Davies waited.
One blue and one pink ’maid stepped after
the snowy tulle train ; while Dr. Neil Fran-
eis and R. V. Fitzgerald gave their support
to the groom—a son of Railway Commis-
sioner Fraser. The Ambassadors spread the
wedding meats.
By way of a present for the bridegroom’s
father, the high authority which fixes the
“cost of living” has just declared that in
Sydney it now runs to four or five shillings
a week more than when it last spoke; so up
go the wages of the N.S.W. railways, among
others, by nearly £400,000 a year. And pre-
sumably up go fares and freights, too. Yet
in the city it has been hard for thousands to
keep their jobs even at the old wages, and
this Letter has to throw its mind back
many years to recall so much unemployment
among women. As for men, one doesn’t
know whether they are unemployed or merely
on strike. Their children go hungry in
either case.
Mr. John Harper, who was Mr. Fraser’s
predecessor as Rahway Commissioner, still
watches the world go by from his retreat
in Mosman. But indifferent health keeps
him almost a prisoner in his home. When
Mr. Harper was smitten with his illness, not
long after his retirement, somebody sym-
pathised with him. It was at a moment
when outside influences were beginning to
make things very difficult for the Commis-
sioner. “Ah, well,” lie said, “perhaps, after
all, I’m better off than Jimmy”—Jimmy
being his old friend and colleague, James
Fraser.
Society will sorrowfully miss one butterfly
on the wheel for the next few months. Kath-
leen Robinson, whose father, Matthew Robin-
son, was buried early last week, will be
absent not only from the gatherings of the
gay but from the amateur stage on which
the graceful girl has done unusually fine
work. Kathleen, indirectly, is one of the
heiresses to the McC-aughey millions through
her mother, who is a niece of the many-
acred Samuel.
The bright girl of the family was due for
a birthday, and the up-to-date godmother pro-
mised her in family conclave three sets of
undies. Came the birthday with cake and
candles, and, just as everybody was getting
her teeth into the Pekoe, godmother came.
From her handbag she drew a parcel. It was
of cardboard, its dimensions those of the
boxes employed by jewellers. “Well, darling,
I’ve brought your present,” said godmother:
“and it’s from Paris.” The bright girl of
the family regarded the box goggle-eyed. But
grandmother, who sat by, trembled with out-
raged modesty. “Three sets of undies!” she
snorted. “Rank indecency—that’s what I'd
call it!” But the threatened hysterics died
down; the up-to-date godmother had without
warning changed her mind and brought along
a jade necklet.


The (SCJXACI)
LINCo/BEALTy
tv
rcuc
NATURAL
FLAIR
#CR FATUICN
is answered by this new inner-belted
Ciossard combination. The inner
belt, ten inches long, is boned,
and shows diagonal inserts of elastic.
The outer part of the garment fits
with glovelike smoothness, and is of
striped batiste. For those desiring
more support than given by the
ordinary combination, this garment
is ideai.
New Gossard solitaires, hookarounds,
clasparounds, girdles and brassieres
are now being shown.
/tPPOCTED
LINE/ ECE
JIJNICC/
The lilting joyousness of slender,
youthful beauty is answered with our
selections of youthful foundations
from Gossard’s fashion studios. Gird-
les, brassieres, garter belts, boneless
combinations, keep slender figures
trimly posed, as they gradually
approach maturity.
there is an inevitable need for a light
support to give the smooth, un-
broken, fashionable line. Here you
see a Gossard Garter Belt shaped
over the abdomen and at the sides.
An elastic insert at the back holds it
closely to the figure. The brassiere,
also by Gossard, slopes to a narrow
elastic back, and is made of fancy
batiste.
The
Canadian H. w. Gossard
Co., Ltd .
114-120 Castlereagh Street
SYDNEY, N. S. W.
GOSSARDS ARE MADE WITHIN
THE EMPIRE
Complete Dinner Services are
available in Prince's Plate and
Sterling Silver. The “Pcmbury”
(Regd.) Pattern, illustrated, is
one oj Mappin and Webb’s special'
designs. A catalogue will be
setit upon request.
Visitors
toLondon
Mappin & Webb have the distinction of
being one of the oldest Firms of Gold
and Silversmiths, Jewellers, and Dress-
ing Bag Makers in the World, and they
extend a cordial invitation to visitors
from the Commonwealth to call when
in London.
The Oxford Street and Regent Street
Showrooms are within 5 minutes by
taxi from the leading Hotels; the City
Showrooms are quite near St. Paul’s
Cathedral, The Tower of London, Guild-
hall, and opposite The Mansion House.
MAITIXiW Lilli
JEWELLERY • WAT CHR S • CLOCKS • SILVERWARE
PRINCE S PLATE • FANCY C LEATHER GOODS.
: LONDON SHOWROOMS :
158162, 0XF0RD ST wi. 172. RE GENT S T wi.2.OUEEX VICTORIA STe.c.l
Choose it now-use it a lifetime
9 'heßestPen
é
ê
ë
m
&
TfiTftS
ft
ist s
%oX
IT PAYS
to SIMONIZ a CAR
The finish lasts longer—
Keeps colors from fading—
Makes cars more beautiful and
Worth more on a “trade-in”—
SIMONIZ does much more than
just polish. It provides a hard-
lasting surface that seldom needs
washing—all dirt, dust and traffic
accumulations can be wiped off with
a soft cloth without scratching the
finish.
When cars are dull and discolored
Simoniz Kleener quickly and
easily removes all blemishes,
renews the lustre and prepares
the finish for Simoniz.
The way to keep DUCO
and all finishes beautiful—
INSIST ON SIMONIZ
S? 1 *? a] l G°°d Motor Houses, Service Stations and
Hardware Stores at 2/6 Small Cans; 5/- Large Cans
In case you cannot obtain locally, see note below!
ANOTHER WONDERFUL
M
A
D
E
I
N
A
U
S
T
R
A
L
I
A
ē
SIMONIZ
PRODUCT—
SIMONIZ
PENETRATING
GRAPHITE
OIL
“LOOSENS THE TIGHTEST NUT.”
Simoniz Penetrating Graphite Oil
instantly
DISSOLVES RUST,
LUBRICATES CAR SPRINGS,
STOPS CHASSIS AND BODY
SQUEAKS,
FREES GUMMED MOTOR VALVES,
LOOSENS ALL TIGHT NUTS
AND BOLTS.
Sold in nandy Boz. can with long spout. Price, 2/6.
IP YOU CANNOT OBTAIN SIMONIZ PRODUCTS
PROM YOUR USUAL DEALER, SEND POSTAL
NOTE TO
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS ,
MOTORITE EQUIPMENTS PTY., LTD.,
Carlton, Melbourne,
and goods will he sent POST FREE.
FREE SAMPLES
OF SIMONIZ AND
KLEENER ON REQUEST.
AVI
Apply with a cloth


\ ' 1 '//
if
Y*
Seen through the Engagement Ring
Series No. 3.
To the two concerned, the Engagement Ring is the Key to a
wonderful picture-gallery, wherein they see pictures of future
happiness—the Wedding, the first home, homelife, etc.
Let a Catanach Engagement Ring open the door to your
picture-gallery of future happiness.
Catanach’s Large Stocks are replete with the very latest Designs
and Settings in Quality Engagement Rings, and a WRITTEN
GUARANTEE is given with each!
Except where otherwise stated, the Rings here illustrated are
all 18ct. Gold and Platinum Set, with the very finest of
Diamonds.
Catalog Post Free on Request.
“The Diamond Specialists,”
Cr. Royal Arcade and Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE, C.l.
24,859 —9-Stone Cluster
Ring, Fine Diamonds,
£2O
24,878 —Fine Diamond
3-Stone Ring, with
Diamond Shoulders,
£32/10/-
24,829 —22-Diamond
Cluster, £2O
24,868 —Fine Diamond
Single-stone Ring, £l5
And in 18et. White
Gold and Platinum
Coronet; also Platinum
throughout.
24,862 —Fine Diamond
Half Hoop, £25
Fine
24,903
Dia
monds, all Platinum,
£B5
W-McF.
Melbourne
Crattar
Backley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
F[?] Contral [?]00[?] P[?]
Buckley e-Numn [?]tod
[?] [?] M[?]
A bitter winter wind blew down upon the
city from the snow-clad heights of Mt. llotlmm
on Anzac Day, and the thousands who lined
the streets to see those who had fought go
by found their vigil chilly and uncomfort-
able. The playing of bands, the waving aloft
of cherished colors and the tinkling of
gay-ribboned medals were the only bright
spots in a pageant that to so many was a
mutter for very sorrowful pride. The Dig-
gers too maimed to walk who passed by in
motor-cars, and the battalion of the blind,
marching bravely through its eternal night,
were reminders of the price that is paid for
victory.
General Monasli, as on former anniver-
saries, led his men, and stepping beside him
for the first time in the city’s history was
Melbourne’s reigning Mayor. Harold Lux-
ton served in the Great War ami had a very
close call when the Germans brought his
’plane down. When the ex-imperial section
came to the saluting-base the Governor took
his place at their head. Two hundred nurses
led by Matron-in-chief Conyers had part,
and, with the others, attended the memorial
service at the Exhibition.
After sharing in the Anzac Day cele-
brations Lord Somers hied him to Spencer-
street railway station, where a red carpet
blazed the track to the v.-r. carriage attached
to the Adelaide express. His Ex. bade Mel-
bourne au revoir, and sailed in the Comorin
for a six-months’ holiday in England.
Accompanying the Governor is his secretary,
Colonel Davidson, with Mrs. Davidson and
their children. Mounted police and a mili-
tary guard of honor, lined the. drab railway
yard, and a crowd rolled up to give a very
popular vice-regent a send off. Though the
Anthem was played by the band when Lord <
Somers came on the platform, it was the
Scouts’ war-cry that sped him on his way,
voiced by 15 of the lads who were members
of the Governor’s recent camping party.
It was very cold with occasional showers
for the V.A.T.C. meeting at Caulfield on
Saturday, and most women wore woollies
beneath coats cither all fur or fur-collared
and -cuffed. Even so, many shivered. Some
of these backed Cosy Rug at 15 to 1 because
his name had such a comforting sound—and
he won ! Lieutenant-Governor Irvine’s lady
was in the members’ ladies’ box, well
wrapped in a coat of kolinsky fur with a felt
hat featuring rows of stitching. Mayoress
Luxton sported a mink coat and brown hat.
Mrs. Merson Cooper and Mrs. L. Aldridge
brightened up this enclosure with wine-hued
felt millinery, topping smart coats. Mrs.
Napier wore a reddish hat above a navy blue
coat and stone marten necklet. Mrs. Ben
Chaffey, Marie de Bavay, Mrs. Claude Grice
and Mrs. T. A. Tabart were others in the
same reserve. Gwen Johnson was there, still
carrying an arm in a sling as result of a
riding accident at the Sydney Show. Hugh
Ward also had an afternoon with the gee-
gees.
When dark-eyed, vivacious Erica Morini
stepped off the Sydney express last week
she was given a posy by Mrs. Maurice
Patkin, president of the Council of Jewish
Women, and received more floral tributes
from Mrs. Herbert Brookes and Mrs. J. J.
Brenan. Bernard Heinze, who was a fellow-
passenger from Europe with Miss Morini,
joined Sutton Crow and Miss Mitchell in the
welcome on behalf of the Uni. Con. The
same evening there was an informal gather-
ing in the Tallis wing of Melba Hall, when
medical-knight James Barrett and Uni.
Chancellor MacFarland cordially greeted the
young virtuoso. Miss Morini’s frock was of
kingfisher blue with lines of daisy-like
trimming in chalk, crystal, blue and coral-
pink. The Barrett lady, who was hostess,
wore powder-blue georgette with deeper-
toned bead embroidery; Mrs. Herbert
Brookes chose saxe blue; and Miss Gilman
Jones was in taffeta of delphinium hue.
Mrs. Newman, wearing black lace, Mrs. Dan
Carroll and pianist Jacob- Gimpel accom-
panied the star. Lindsay Biggins, lately
back from study in Germany, played a few
short pianoforte pieces, and then there was
talk and coffee.
While the Old Girls’ Association of the
Uni. Con. was greeting Erica Morini the
past and present students of the Albert-
street Con. gathered at the Victorian Artists’
Gallery to congratulate and farewell a
former student, Evelyn Scotney, whose con-
cert season finished on Saturday night.
After Mary Campbell and Fritz Hart had
spoken, Mr. Hart’s choral work “The Gilly
of Christ” was performed by Lilian Stott,
Rita Coonan and Millie McCormack, with
Ida Scott at the piano. Madame Scot-
ney’s flame-colored gown with its irides-
cence of crystal made an effective back-
ground for the great sheaf of gladioli tied
with blue streamers presented by the students.
The evening wound up with’ supper and a
dance. Fully 250 were at the gathering,
and the throng included a few pupils who
were at the Con. when it was founded by
the late Marshall Hall 35 years ago.
The audience at Morini’s first concert
on Saturday night included several hardened
old musical critics, but before she had played
10 bars they were merely enraptured listeners.
The plumpish 23-year-old brunette of medium
height, with rosy cheeks, big brown eyes and
bobbed black hair, stepped out between the
snuff-brown velvet curtains in a simple frock,
of rose-shot taffeta, tight of bodice and with
a full skirt that blended into a hemline of
net of the same shade. She wore np jewel-
lery nor head adornment. Flowers were
piled about her at the end of the first half,
and after the recital many of the audience
hung about stairway and footpath in the
chilly air to wave her good-night as she
left the hall. St. Vincent's Hospital, by the
way, has a lien on the Morini autograph,
which costs half a crown, that goes to the
funds of the institution. Those who helped
swell the applause at the first recital included
James Barrett and his lady, Mrs. Albert Mil-
ler, I'rof. Ernest Scott, the Fritz Harts,
Mrs. Thirkell, Mrs. W. Merry. Lucy Rowe,
Muriel Campbell and pianist Rita Hope. The
Belgian violinist Edouard Lambert was an-
other who came under the spell.
Talk was all of tees and putts and handi-
caps when associate members of the Vic-
toria Golf Club, Cheltenham, had their
first dance of the season amid decorations
of winter flowers and foliage. Mrs. E. M.
Ricker, one of the organisers, whose gown
of chanel-red suited the setting, was respon-
sible for the horticultural groupings. The
president, Mrs. Walter Carnegie, wore
raiment of black with cheer of rhinestone
glitter. Mrs. K. S. Ross, lion. sec. of the
associates, had a subdued sparkle on an
amber-colored frock.
The Institute for the Blind has made
another step forward with the opening of a
hostel for blind boys who are learning a
trade or a profession. Built on the same
•comfy lines as the girls’ hostel, it occu-
pies a portion of the big allotment in Raleigh-
street, off St. Kilda-road, which the Gov-
ernment made over to the institute. Though
the girls’ home has been in use for only a
year and a bit, it is surrounded with lawns
and beds of bright flowers, and it won’t
be long before its twin presents as homey
an appearance. Thanks to the energy of
Mrs. Jim Angus, president of the Women’s
Auxiliary, and the members, over £7OOO was
raised by three fetes for the building and
furnishing funds, with the result that both
hostels were opened free of debt.
The young lady with the big, big eyes was
Lorna Talbot, and is now Mrs. H. W.
Martin. When
she swept up
the aisle of St.
Pat.’s last
week to meet
her bride-
groomi, who
has a job in
the Navy
Office, she
dressed the
part in white
satin a
French model,
ma r k you—
and the veil
was of Iloni-
ton lace. Mary
’Penny, from
Corowa sta-
tion (N.S.W.),
was brides-
m aid, her
primrose vel-
vet frock allied
to a felt hat of the same tone. The bride,
the only chick of Frank Talbot, manager of
the Athenaeum Theatre —the long, tactful,
sad-eyed chap who in his earlier days
advance-agented all over Australasia and
made thousands of friends and no enemies—
has very successfully earned her own living
as a professional photographic portraitist,
and was a partner in the Sandringham
Studio, which made the picture here repro-
duced.
When Cecily Marian, second daughter of
the Leslie Jenners', of Toorak. took the War-
ren Clarks’s eldest son, Hamilton, for better
or worse, she made her promises clad in the
mode of the fifteenth century. Her heavily-
pleated robe of parchment-toned satin was
just short enough in front to show her pearl-
embroidered slippers. She carried a posy
of crimson roses; and an antique lace veil
was anchored to the conventional wreath of
orange buds. Bridesmaids Joyce Inglis and
Alison Clark made a background of lily-of-
the-valley green tulle, and the same shade in
felt hats. Gilded footwear and blending bou-
quets were tuneful additions to the color
scheme. Congratulations were offered at
Chastleton by many of our naicest.
Eileen, daughter of the J. Conollys of
Brighton and niece of the E. J. Gravestocks,
was a bride of last week, her chosen being
Charles G. Lane, a well-known athlete. A
Limerick lace veil strayed over her gown of
white satin with silver girdle, and Sylvia
Lane bridesmaided in ciel-blue chiffon, with
a sequinned cap covering her shingle. There
was a dinner party at Menzies’ afterwards
for relatives and a few old friends.
“No, of course, Australia can’t make
silk stockings,” George G. Foletta’s friends
flung at him
when he sug-
gested the pos-
sibility of it.
But seeing
skirts shrink-
ing and shrink-
ing, and know-
ing that this
must mean
that the atteri
tion giv en
hitherto to
frocks would
be shared with
stockings, h e
interested some
associates in
hi s scheme,
and Prestige,
Ltd., was the
result. II o w
well he rea-
soned can be
judged by the
fact that in six years the mill’s turnover has
moved from £50,000 to nearly £ooo,ooo a
year. Born in Australia, of Swiss descent, Mr.
Foletta, still only 36 years young, keeps him-
self in closest touch with the technical develop-
ments of the trade, and loaves by the outgoing
Aorangi on another voyage of exploration.
If there is a machine in the world that does
better work than the co.’s present plant, Aus-
tralia can depend on having it very soon.
Two land-holding families of the Western
District were linked last week by the marriage
of Mary Florence Wettenliall, daughter of
the M. B. Wettenhalls, of Miraneo, Camper-
down, and William Russell, of Bald Hill.
The bride’s veil of old Limerick lace cascaded
over a white satin gown, her two ’maids
wearing blue taffetas and hats of the same
shade topped by Parma violets. The wedding
feast was spread at the home of the Alex.
Wettenhalls at Malvern.
Hats of pink felt, soft pink frocks with
jagged hem-lines and posies of roses to blend
were sported by the two ’maids who at-
tended Jean Jackson for her marriage with
Dr. Francis Clive Langlands the other day.
The bride, the fourth daughter of the H. B.
Jacksons of Sandford House, Middle Brigh-
ton, had white tulle floating from a bandeau
of orange buds over a gown of white satin
and georgette.
In ivory satin and Brussels lace the W.
McCombs’s eldest daughter Nelle, well known
in golfing circles, entered her home church,
St. Mark’s, Camberwell, carrying a group of
water-lilies to her tryst with Leslie, eldest
son of the late R. Berriman, of the Commer-
cial Bank, and of Mrs. Berriman, Glenferne.
Sisters Floyd and Mary attended her, draped
in silver taffeta patterned with blue and
pink roses, tneir straw hats trimmed with
lace. Congratulations were voiced at Chasle-
ton, where Mrs. McComb received the guests
in a coat of gold lame and lace over black.
Mrs. W. Mitchell presided over a luncheon
at the Alexander when a welcome home was
given to Mrs. Bert Cowen, professionally
known as Louise Lovely. The. guest of
honor was charmingly apparelled in rose-du-
barry cr@pe de Chine with felt millinery in
tune. Autumn leaves trailed from a basket
of golden-brown cactus-dahlias about the
champagne glasses, which were wreathed
with violets, and there were shoulder posies
for the guests, among whom were Muriel
Starr, Mrs. Barry Thomson and Mrs. G.
Haines.
Soprano Eda Bennie was guest of honor
at last month’s fraternising of members of
the L.A.B. Club at the Lyceum Club rooms,
and furnished the chief part of the even-
ing’s entertainment. The singer wore black
with bead embroideries, whiph took the form
of mauve and pink lotus blooms and leaves
rising out of rivulets of crystal bugles inter-
spersed with birds on the wing. A string of
green jade completed the Oriental effect. She
sang operatic excerpts and groups of Ger-
man. French and modern British songs. Viva
Clarke, in pale yellow satin, played composi-
tions of Scarlatti and Chopin. Amy Dickin-
son was accompanist to the returned oper-
atic artist, who sang two of this pianist’s
compositions. In the audience was Sybil
Hull, secretary of the L.A.B. Club, recently
returned from abroad, in attire of lace and
georgette of light tan hue.
Since her return to Victoria less than a
year ago, after a sojourn in Europe of many
years, Una Teague has exhibited sections of
her fine collection of embroideries and other
handicraft fashioned by the peasants of the
Balkan States, but last week many w r ere
privileged to view it in its entirety. In
making her selections Miss Teague aimed at
securing samples of designs and colorings
peculiar to each district, for in Central
Europe a woman’s birthplace is known by
her dress or cap, for fashion changes not.
The trustees of the National Gallery con-
sidered Miss Teague’s gleanings of such edu-
cational and historic value that many pieces
have been purchased bv the Felton Bequest.
The art of embroidering upon hand-woven
linen has been handed down from generation
to generation of Slavs. The peasants weave
linen of various textures, and the wools and
silks for embellishment art* colored with vege-
table dyes. Among the exhibits were many
gorgeously-embroidered Roumanian jumpers
with sleeves of immense width, a style of
garment much favored by the Queen of Rou-
mania. Miss Teague, who is a daughter of
Dr. and Mrs. Teague of Frankston, held her
show in a spacious reception-room at the
home of Mr. R. (). Blackwood, St. Kilda-
road.
Wearing raiment of bronze-brown satin
trimmed with Malines lace, and a fur felt
hat,„Mrs. Percy Blackbourn gave an after-
noon tea at the Quamby as adieux to Mrs.
Graham Brown and Mrs. Lyster Jackson.
Gladioli, marigolds and autumn leaves fur-
bished the drawing-room of the fashionable
women’s club, and a string orchestra made a
gentle murmuring to cloak the chatter. Mrs.
Brown, who was a study in navy—georgette
frock and pandan straw millinery—is re-
turning with Commander Brown to England,
travelling by way of South Africa to visit
relatives there. Mrs. Jackson, who was on
the eve of a journey to London, was in en-
semble of black, her felt hat sporting a front
drape of beige velvet. Mrs. Henry Nott and
Mrs. Winiam, prospective passengers to
Blighty in the Drama, shared in the distri-
bution of good wishes. Among the guests
were Mi's. Harry Sargood, in rose-red cloth
crowned by a black and mastic felt hat;
Mrs. David Grant, whose golden-brown cloak
covered a frock of floral-patterned ninon;
Mrs. Alex. Cameron; Mrs. T. A. Tabart
and Edna, the last-named in a wine-colored
three-piece suit; Helen and Gertrude Rennie,
Mrs. Brian Hooker and Beryl Ainslie.
The attention of Collins-street way-
farers is arrested by displays of imitation
jewellery to match or blend with gown or
millinery. Strings of colored beads, crystal
and pearls are being replaced by necklets of
imitation gold of a pendent nature, generally
brightened with alternate bits of color. Vari-
hued enamel is employed extensively in these
Oriental bits of adornment. Earrings, brace-
lets and buckles usually complete the set.
Mrs. Herbert Brookes has made so many
friends that she is almost snowed under by
congratulations on the appointment of her
husband as Commissioner-General for the
Commonwealth in the United States. She
has been for years a valiant social worker,
and gave very useful service as president of
the Women’s Hospital. It will be a sore
disappointment to her to have to leave when
the £lOO,OOO appeal for the hospital has
just been launched, for she was evolving
many plans to raise the money for rebuilding
the older part of the institution. The
establishment of children’s playgrounds is
another of Mrs. Brookes’s interests, and the
elevation of musical standards is yet an-
other. She is herself an accomplished
violinist. She is a member of the Faculty of
Music of the Uni. Con., and is head of the
ladies’ committee of the Uni. Symphony
Orchestra. She has also strongly supported
the appeal for a million shillings to found
i a permanent orchestra.
The cigarette habit is declining in favor
abroad. The Parisienne is now seldom seen
with a cigarette in cafes or public places.
Fashion is responsible. The authorities on
clothes have set forth that while the cigar-
ette was in tone with the late vogue for
mannish effects, it doesn’t tune in with the
; attempted revival of femininity. In London
anti-tobaccoites are taking advantage of the
changed situation, demanding that smoking
shall be banned in theatres and restaurants.
The Housewives’ Association, having come
to the conclusion that there’s room for a big
reduction in the price of fish, has established
a stall at the Victoria market.
“A.G.M.’s” note from London (3/3/’29) :
Melbourne’s one-time resident Lady Estella Hope,
sister of Australia’s first Governor-General, was one
; of the exhibitors at the pony show held in Islington
, this week. Lady Estella is not so fair and not so
slim as in the day when she rode much in Vic-
toria, and asked Lord Rosehill for assistance in the
. unconventional phrase, “Leg us up, Rosey” ; but she
is still very alert and “sporty.” Sir Archibald
Weigall, erstwhile of Adelaide, was master of cere-
. monies, and acted as escort to Princess Arthur of
[ Connaught, who presented the prizes. Lady Weigall
r has never quite recovered from her accident, and
[ in addition to lameness seems easily put under by
any unkind breeze.


REPUDIATION!
It has been stated that the Col-
liery-owners are attempting to
"demoralise the miners’ organ-
isations” with a view to attack-
ing their working conditions.
THIS WE DENY!
The owners told the Coal Conference in the
Sydney Town Hall on April 9, 1929, that
"every employee was entitled to the highest
wages possible, provided the industry could
be carried on,"
The review of industrial conditions is only
incidental to the main question, which is that
of saving the industry. If there is no trade,
there can be no wages to pay. Our proposal
is that all parties shall co-operate in reducing
costs, so as to recover our trade, thereby
reducing intermittency of employment and
improving the fortnightly earnings.
The owners will gain noth-
ing directly from a lower
selling price, or from re-
duced wages. The public
will get the direct benefits.
Public, owners and miners alike will
benefit indirectly through the saving
of the industry, the recovery of lost
trade and re-establishing of regular
employment.
PUBLICATION AUTHORISED BY C. M. McDONALD,
Chairman of the Northern Collieries’ Association.
IT’S EASY TO GET
RID OF PIMPLES
Why put up with disfiguring skin troubles when you
can get rid of them easily by enriching the blood
with Cream of Yeast? See how your skin clears
as the good, rich, new blood replaces the old. And
with richer blood comes clearer eyes, firmer step,
greater vigor. Even the hair becomes glossier as
Cream of Yeast improves the general health. Start
this popular treatment to-day—24 Cream of Yeast
tablets cost only Is. lid. at any good chemist’s,
or you can get 125 tablets for ss. 9d. Where other
things fail after months, Cream of Yeast gives
results at once. Proof is easy, and costs little.
BALDNESS
Serious Urgent Matter.
Many a woman has lost her charm and many a
man his job and popularity through a grey or bald
head! Don’t let the world say you’re getting old
keep young! Get rid of your grey hairs this easv
way: Get a package of Vi-Glo from the chemist
and rub into the scalp. Vi-Glo contains a new
ingredient that wakes up the color and growth
cells and quickly brings back young, abundant hair.
The cost is only 3/-, including a special shampoo
very little to stand between you and popularity
If no chemist near send 3/4 to Vi-Glorient Co '
kembla Building, Sydney, and outfit will reach
you by post. Satisfaction definitely guaranteed
If any illustration in “ THE
BULLETIN" takes your fancy ,
Write to the MANAGER , who will
quote you price for the original.
■
K'iwi":
:S:
H
..
:
1
I
..
m
Paby MARJORIE
PIDCOCK— fiaby
Competition winner.
Her mother writes «
“ From the time of her
birth until the present,
she has been bathed
exclusively with Rex-
ona Soab.”
IL<eit IBolbnj Ibe ci
IBcilbnj”
A child’s chief charm lies in the beauty and softness of
its skin. Round, chubby cheeks, little dimpled chin—
they lose more than half their charm if the skin is not
clear and rosy.
Keep your baby’s skin always fresh and clear—keep it
rosy—by using Rexona Soap regularly. Its medicinal
content provides a sure protection against many of the
skin affections which may endanger the beauty of the
velvet skin which is baby’s birth-right.
Rexona Soap is baby’s soap—so pure, so wholesome
and so easy to lather. Let baby be a “ Rexona Baby.”
vm
HU***
cu»rs
i»mi
*
10J&*
REXONA.
SOAP
for Health and Beaut-
RS3R
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
“Your Food has
been the turning
point to my baby”—
so says a Victorian mother.
Another mother says: —
“Baby weighed only lbs.
when a fortnight old. We tried
several foods then we dis-
covered ‘Benger’s.' Baby took
Benger’s without trouble. She
gained 12 ozs. the first week.
She is now 8 months oid, and
weighs 16 lbs. a happy, plump,
and healthy little girl. ”
ĕ
Food
Res;. Tit ADR IUBK.
Send for Benner's Booklet . post free,
BENGER’S FOOD Ltd..
350. George Street, SYDNEY.
A.2Bj


THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Fire Insurances' ffoctcHi on ail classes of.
" Buildings, Stocks, Furni
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks on Wool, Merchandise,
———— Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. 11. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
M,p*uu^
turn r
U\
P
ė
.A STHMA-
For the relief of
ASTHMA, CATARRH,
WHOOPING COUGH,
BRONCHITIS and
COLD IN THE HEAD
For outdoors, use Potter's
Smoking Mixture and Cigarettes
2/6 per Tin from all Medicine
k Vendors.
k POTTER & CLARKE, Ltd
j\ Artillery Lane,
i[\ London, Eng
"A
HOTEL |
METROPOLE,
. .... SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
front Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/-per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application tq
THE MANAGER.
ę
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess Insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY.
BIRKIYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade-mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
GOUROCK
Romioitk
EXPORT CO.
LTD.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
HAS ACCEPTED
Register
NEWS PICTORIAL
with the utmost enthusiasm.
ALL THE NEWS!
ALL THE PICTURES!
The State’s First Morning
Pictorial.
Largely increased Sales
already assured.
Arrange Contracts at
present rates.
HEAD OFFICE: REGISTER NEWS-
PAPERS, LIMITED, Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative: Eric N. Birks,
Sydney. Tel. X 5187.
Melbourne Representative: G. N.
Bednall, “Argus” Building, Mel-
bourne. Tel. F 4502.
KUNIOON STUD FARM
Area 1881 acres, more or less. Far-famed for the magnificent specimens of bloodstock bred
on the property.
The home of the late Frank A. Darlev, where many of Queensland’s greatest racehorses
were bred.
Situated in the fertile Nanango district, mid-way between the North Coast and Ipswich-
Kingaro.v Railways, 7 and 8 miles respectively, 1000 acres of rich sedimentary deposit fiats on
Barker’s Creek, which the whole property fronts, where lucerne thrives to perfection, likewise
potatoes, maize and all cereals, all of which are cleared and ready for the plough. Balance
well grassed, sheltered, warm ridges. Well and permanently watered by creek and two large
lagoons.
A wonderful stud, dairying or mixed-farming proposition.
Residence of 11 rooms, cottage, hay sheds, barn, stables and stalls. Exceptionally well
fenced and subdivided into numerous paddocks.
Price £1.'),000. Terms: One-sixth cash, no further payment of principal for two years;
balance by eight equal annual instalments, with interest at 6 per cent., payable half yearly.
Average rainfall over 31 inches.
For further particulars apply to C. A. HURLEY & CO., Queen Street, Brisbane.
Your Car for Leave in England —
—get it from Pass and Joyce, because they offer these definite
advantages:
(1) Widest selection of leading makes.
(2) Most reasonable Deferred Terms, and
(3) A Guaranteed Re-purchase Price.
(4) Expert Service, relieving you of all detail.
Bear in mind the convenience of a ear for your holiday and the
saving in travelling expenses. You will definitely have every
reason to be delighted with the car you obtain under the attractive
Pass and Joyce Re-purchase Scheme. Detailed brochure free on
application to Manager, The Bulletin, 214 George Street North,
Sydney.
ERSSIOYCE
London’s Leading
Automobile Agents.
373-375 Euston Road,
London, N.W.I, England.
ě
Ole hand that holds
| th" VENUS "
I plans tlte World
The first rough suggestion—the skilful
and accurate working out. the sharp
detailed drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
constructive effort, call for the use of VENUS
PENCILS Whether it be for the building of a
battle-ship or the design of a simple household
article, the pencil is the first requirement: the
VENUS the first pencil.
17 Blacklead Degrees 68-9 H sd. each -4/9 per dozen. Super Copying (Medium & Hard) 6d
each - 5/9 per dozen. Venus Copying (Medium & Hard) 4d. each - 3/9 per dozen.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
y using a
SAFETY RAZOR BLADE
Made of a special steel with extra keen edges
that last and give more shaves per blade.
For all Gillette and Auto-Strop holders.
Agent for Australia: H. E. UTTLEY,
Margaret House, 282 George Street, Sydney.
Manufactured by Kirby, Beard & Co., Ltd.,
Needle and Pin Manufacturers,
Ravenhurst Works,
Birmingham,
England.
Q>
<3
A
o*=
o*
Use q BEARD to s/n/vq a beard
e
è
•K
t^tS-
°V>*V C
t ev
s*
s[o
. M° V ‘
A* 1
c"t>
vP
-
*t°'
*2
\V* *>'
é
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
m
m
At the
Children’s Table
UN for the Children is
Mabel Lucic Attwcll’s
gift to the Shelley tableware.
Here a milk-jug that pretends
to be an elf, there a sugar-
basin that might be one of
Peter Pan’s mushrooms—a
laugh in every plate and the
cunningest skill in fashion-
ing ware that little spoons
and forks may pick their
food up easily.
Ask
y sec tmc LArmsr
SHELLEY
Tba Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery Ware
iy Lucie Amreu
& Hilda Cowham
Dome stic Ware
Jelly Moulds
OBTAINING
mH
writ* to
W. Ml AT M fc CO. LTD,
J3J,CL*ftIHCE IT.
ê
In Days of Old
White hair was
all the vogue.
In modern days
grey or white
hair is consid-
ered a sign of
appr o a c h i n g
age.
It is NOT "THf:
THING.**
All traces of Grey can readily be removed
by an application of
Dr. Allen’s (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
Sold at all Chemists and Stores.
Harmless, easy
to apply, can-
not be detected
Australian Agents:
DUERDIN AND
SAINSBURY, LTD
Bond Street,
Melbourne.
ë
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emcra'ds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
“THE AGE”
Established 185-b.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
You do not leave it to chance in choosing a
newspaper for your advertising campaigns. You
require evidence of its stability and inquire
fully into its claims for preference before
entrusting it with your sales message.
No discriminate buyer of newspaper space can
afford to overlook
“THE AGE”
when contemplating future allocations for
Victoria.
Make your first preference “THE AGE,” and
you will be convinced that in choosing this
medium to broadcast your sales message
throughout the State your choice has been
fully justified.
“The Age” CIRCULATES in the
homes and offices of 123,533 sub-
scribers daily, and publishes over ONE
MILLION Advertisements annually.
Rates on application to the principal sendee
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.


Accommodation
160.
Central,
Comfortable,
Convenient,
5 Mts. G.P.O.
Excellent
Cuisine,
Billiards,
Dancing.
ORIENTAL HOTEL
(No License)
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
TARIFF :
Weekly,
£3/3/- to
£4/4/-
Daily,
11/6 to 13/6.
Room & B’fast,
8/6 to 9/6
FL2034
F 3575
M
LEIPZIG TRADE FAIR
GERMANY
AUTUMN FAIR with great Engineering and Building sections —starts August
25, 1929. “If you are alive to business YOU MUST GO!” Last year 185,000
buyers! 10,000 exhibitors! Letters of introduction and all particulars freely
given by authorised representative.
LARS G. BRUNDAHL,
'Phones: 84006, MW2201. 6 Dailey Street, Sydney.
icura Soa
MEOICINAL&TOIL
The Right Soap
For Baby’s Skin
In the care of baby’s tender skin
Cuticura Soap is the mother’s fav-
orite. Not only is it unrivaled in
purity and refreshing fragrance but its
gentle emollient properties are usually
sufficient to allay minor irritations
and promote skin health.
Soap Is., Talcum 15.3 d.. Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
Amusements.
CYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE-DESERT SONG
ROYAL: PAVLOVA
CRITERION: PIGS
Commencing Next Saturday.
PALACE: NO. 17
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
J C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
THE STUDENT PRINCE.
Commencing Saturday Next.
ROYAL:
THIS YEAR OF GRACE.
ING ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EXTENDED SEASON OF
LEON GORDON in
THE GHOST UPSTAIRS.
TYJEW COMEDY THEATRE,
1 MELBOURNE.
NELLIE STEWART as
SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY.
HOYT’S D E LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
TOM MIX in
A SON OF THE GOLDEN WEST.
ALSO
ALL STAR CAST in
Q. SHIPS.
“BhAfrKBIREi'
FBUNTPEN
Prices, 9/- upwards.
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS.
FOR ALL SPOR.T
BUY
THE SPORTING GLOBE
The Leading Australian Authority with the largesf
stall of Sporting Experts and Special Representative!
in all States. The staff includes:—
“MUSKET” The Turf
“BAIL” Cricket
W. S. SHARLAND Football
PAT O’HARA WOOD Tennis
J. J. MAHER Cycling
J. M. IMLLON Golf
A. L. DOBBIE Rowing
TOM MOBLEY Coursing
MAURIE COLLINS Bowls
H. C. BROOKE Yachting
New South Wales edition available—
every Thursday, price 3d.
STOP
INDIGESTION
THIS SAFE, EASY WAY
Instant relief from stomach distress—and a quick
return to complete stomach health—if you take
Para-Pepsin. You cannot get such good results with
anti-acids. Para-Pepsin is a natural remedy that
ensures the proper digestion of the food and stops
the possibility of harmful stomach acidity. Hut
if you take anti-acids you simply stop the result of
the trouble—while the trouble itself goes on. Para-
Pepsin is a safe, sure remedy for indigestion, gastritis,
dyspepsia, gas and pain after eating. It lets you
eat what you want when you want it, and costs but
a trifle at any chemist’s. Note the name Para-
Pepsin carefully if you want a really prompt and
effective remedy, giving more than mere relief.
Missing Friends.
I EYDBN, MICHAEL, formerly of Carlton
and a brother of Margaret Beamish,
deceased; will hear something to his advan-
tage if lie communicates with NATIONAL
TRUSTEES COMPANY, 113 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
YY7ILL the brother of JAMES (sometimes
called ERNEST) GRIFFIN, station
hand, late of Strathdarr station, Longreach,
who died at Longreach on 14th July, 1928,
please communicate with the LOCAL
DEPUTY PUBLIC CURATOR, Rock-
hampton.
VF/ILL ARTHUR JAMES please write
to brother JOE DAVIES, chief baker
s.s Lady Rodney, c/o Canadian National
Steamship Company, Halifax, Canada.
Write to mother in Birkenhead, and Ena.
NJORMANTON, TAYLOR, last heard of
at Theatre Cafe, Warragul, Gippsland,
Victoria. Will any person knowing his
whereabouts please forward information to
his father, W. J. NORMANTON, 40 Well-
ington Street, Gisborne, N.Z.
Legal Notice.
TO ALEXANDER McINTOSH late of
Hobart in Tasmania but whose where-
abouts are now unknown.
WHEREAS WINIFRED McINTOSH of
Hobart in Tasmania at present residing at
Bowmore Street Oakleigh Victoria claiming
to have been lawfully married to you has
filed her petition for Dissolution of the said
Marriage in the Supreme Court of Tasmania
on the ground of desertion for two years
and upwards NOW you are hereby notified
that unless within twenty-two days from
the date of publication hereof you enter an
appearance in this Court at ' its Registry
Macquarie Street Hobart in Tasmania the
said Court will proceed to hear the sam
charges and to pronounce sentence therein
your absence notwithstanding.
DATED at Hobart aforesaid this twenty-
second day of April one thousand nine hun-
dred and twenty-nine.
C. S. SIMMONS,
Clerk of the Court.
MURDOCH, CUTHBERT & CLARKE,
of 135 Macquarie Street, Hobart, aforesaid,
Proctors for the Petitioner.
If any illustration in “THE
BULLETIN ” takes your fancy ,
write to the MANAGER , who will
quote you price for the original.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISDANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Sociel Life!
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The Governor opened the Melrose Labora-
tory at the Waite Institute. After the cere-
mony Dr. and Mrs. A. E. V. Richardson
entertained the numerous visitors at tea at
Urrbrae. The whole house was massed with
lovely blooms from the garden, and the cup
that cheers was served in the dining-room.
Lady Hore-Ruthven accompanied his Ex.
in a brocaded metal tissue coat with collar
of sable and a red and fawn felt hat. The
hostess sported black velvet and ermine.
Knights George Murray, Langdon Bonython
and John Melrose, Mayor and Mayoress
Bonython, Miss Murray and Miss Melrose
were in the v.-r. party.
The hydroplane races and the Amateur
Turf Club meeting at Cheltenham were held
on the same day, but the attendance at the
gee-gee festival was not affected in any way.
Chairman J. 11. Morish, assisted by his
smart wife, in a beige tailored coat and
velour hat to match, entertained at luncheon
and afternoon tea. Sport suits and tailor-
mades were to the fore. “The Girl Friend”
and “Five O’Clock Tea Girl” cos. were there
in force. Annie Croft wore a white velvet
tailored coat and white felt hat. Miss Pat-
terson, the new lead, an ashy blonde, was
in black from top to toe.
The Uni. Dance Club opened its season
in the Students’ Union’s new refectory build-
ing. Dr. and Mrs. A. E. V. Richardson re-
ceived the guests, and there was a good crop
of profs, and their wives, the latter mostly
decorating the walls as chaperones. That
game’s a cold one, and calls for woollies
rather than evening dress. There was a good
rally of students.
Rain and sunshine alternated when Clive,
the Allan McFarlanes’ second son, married
Ellie Rutherford, a popular member of the
younger set. She is a member of “The Hags,”
an exclusive little club of girl friends, who
converted old St. Andrew’s kirk into a, floral
bower under the supervision of Mayoress
Bonython. The bride wore a wedding veil
200 years old, lent by the bridegroom’s
mother, over a simple white satin frock.
Her bridesmaids, Betty McFarlane and
Beryl Ritchie, were in apple-green velvet,
with felt hats to match. The bridal tea
was in a marquee at the home of the bride’s
parents.
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Lady Goodwin christened the new Qantas
air-liner Apollo at the Eagle Farm aero-
drome. She wore claret color and a hat
with gold braidings, and the hangar was
dressed up in flags. Tea was served among
zinnias in another hangar. There was a big
roll-up of invited guests.
Her Ex. opened the Blue Bell fete in St.
Andrew’s Hall, which was decked in blue
and gold. The Cowley lady, Rev. Hubert
Robertson and Mr. Wyper welcomed her, and
a posy tied with yellow streamers was
handed over by Peggy McGory and George
Irwin. W. R. Black was also welcomed as
a benefactor of the Children’s Homes, for
which this fete was held. Scarlet and brown
dahlias decorated the v.-r. tea table.
Nellie Bramley and co. last week com-
pleted their year's run. Flags and bunting
decked the
Royal, and
Miss Bramley
made a speech.
A souvenir
programme re-
veals that ten
of the com-
pany are din-
kum Aussies,
among them
Kyle McAlli-
ster, Mi s s
Bramley and
her pretty sis-
ter pictured
here, who
plays as Mar-
guerite Adele.
Like her sis-
ter, she was
born in Mel-
bourne.
Sir John Goodwin opened the Toowoomba
Show and said hearty things about the dairy
cattle. President Clark spoke of the rain
that spoiled the Show last year and of the
great success 1929’s Show promised to be.
The takings on the big day were £2OO above
those of last year—and then at night came
fire and destroyed everything!
Dr. Fanny Reading was entertained by the
Council of Jewish Women at their rooms.
Pauline Abrahams presented her with a bou-
quet and Merna Borsht handed her a silver
paper-knife bearing the council's badge. Dr.
Reading advised the juniors to form lecture-
study circles. There was music, dancing
and supper.
The death of Mrs. Arthur Feez, who had
paused in Brisbane to see relatives on her
way back from Java, where she had been
with Lady Knox, was tragically sudden. Hur-
ried to a private hospital, she died , on the
day of her husband’s arrival from the South.
She was a daughter of the late Graham Hart
and w T ife of Arthur Feez, K.C., who prac-
tised here for many years.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
Doreen O'Hara decked up her home in
Forrest-avenue on a recent evening for a
bridge party. Carnations and roses toned
with the pink satin table-covers. The dainty
hostess, always beautifully froeked, chose
lobelia-blue lace with points touching her
ankles. A monster shoulder rose, a diamente
buckle and blue satin shoes were accessories.
Ethel Treadgold was another bridge hos-
tess. Her gown was of pink moire, with a
skirt frilled with lace. Among the players
were prospective travellers—Mrs. Abe Her-
man, who has since left with her better
half on a w r orld tour; Mrs. Momber, who
shortly boards a German liner for Europe;
and Mrs. Frank Malloeh, who plans a round
trip to Wyndham by the Koolinda in May.
Galsworthy’s “Family Man” was the
choice of the Repertory Club for its recent
season. The girls in the cast were loaded
with blooms and parcels on both nights, and
a presentation was made to producer Aloliy
Ick by the players.
Phyllis, eldest daughter of the Charles
Hadleys of West Perth, is wearing a sparkler
placed on her finger by Victor Shallcross, of
Mount-street.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The rush of shows organised for the flood
relief funds keeps us busy. The biggest
function so far has been a inatin6e perform-
ance of “The Student Prince,” given by the
“Desert Song” co. Our little Theatre Royal’s
own dog wouldn’t have known it in its floral
dress and general bedizenment. A body of
young matrons and maidens, among them
Margaret O’Grady, Mrs. McGregor. Airs, de
Bavay, Airs. Geoff Chapman, Airs. N. Atkins,
Helen Gray and the Giblin girls, did a roar-
ing trade with programmes and sweets, and
a packed house sweltered in the unexpected
heat of a belated summer day.
His Ex. related his experiences in the
flooded area at some length at the concert
organised by the Aleijcuky and 7ZL at the
Town Hall. The programme was a long and
varied one, and among those who contributed
to it were Gil Dech, pianist, Jean Hibbard
and Barbara Stoney, who spoke some verses
to Aldme. Helen George’s accompaniment.
The Orient Steamship Co. and Commander
Cameron entertained about 100 young folk
on board the Oronsay. His Ex. and daughter
Margaret came after the flood relief funds
concert in the Town Hall, Alargarct in a
frock of green lace worn with a deep swathed
sash. The ship’s orchestra played, and there
was bridge in the card lounge for non-
dancers. Sir Alan Anderson, chairman of
the Orient Line, was on board ; also Briga-
dier-General and Airs. Cavendish, on their
way to London.
Looking out of this window is Rita Lowen-
stern, lecturer
in mathema-
tics at our
Uni. Educated
at Melbourne
C. of E. Girls’
Grammar
School, she
wont from
there to Melb,
U n i., where
she was a re-
sident scholar
at Janet
Clarke Hall
and took her
M.A. degree
with honors in
maths., shar-
ing the Dixon
and Wyselas-
ki e scholar-
ships in the
final year. She
is a keen
hockey player.
Bishop Hay, assisted by Rector Wilson,
tied the knot at St. James’s Church between
the rector’s eldest daughter, Violet, and John
M. Gatehouse, of Buckland. The church was
a mass of flowers, and crowded with guests
and friends, the bride being one of Hobart’s
most popular girls. Very pretty was the
wedding dress, in Victorian style, of Iloni-
ton lace over ivory duchesse, the long veil of
tulle falling from a coronet of diamente. The
’maids were the bride’s sister Ena and Hilda
Gatehouse, with Mary Hodgkinson as train-
bearer.
The Edwin Websters, who were obliged
for private reasons to abandon a projected
trip to the Cold Country early in the year,
managed to get away in the Comorin before
it was too late in the season for comfortable
travel. They are anxious to sec their son
Hugh, who is at Cambridge. The last two
or three liners have been rushed by passen-
gers who are enjoying the long-desired privi-
lege of crossing to the mainland in the big
boats.
NORTHERN TERRITORY.
Darwin.
The First Darwin Troop of Boy Scouts
spent Easter on the quarantine island, and
had the time of their lives, though six inches
of rain fell in one day during their stay.
The gold medal presented by the Administra-
tor for general proficiency was won by Rex
Lowe, with Frank Litchfield second. The
gold medal presented by Mrs. and Mr. Mat-
son (8.A.T.) and C. E. F. Allen for the
best composition on the outing was won by
B. Finniss.
At; Malta early last month Captain Leon-
ard Samut, of the Health Department, Dar-
win, formerly of the Worcestershire Regi-
ment, was married by proxy to Henrietta
Xuero de Caro. Captain Samut was repre-
sfftated by his father, Colonel Samut, Minister
of the.. Treasury at Malta. At 12.30 on
a Thursday morning, corresponding to 4
p.m. on Wednesday at Malta (the hour of
the ceremony), a number of Captain Samut’s
friends assembled at his house to drink the
health of the newly-weds.
Rose Alee Chow- and Walter Que Noy,
both Australian-born Chinese, were recently
married according to Chinese ceremonial, but
in an abridged form, the ceremony occupy-
ing one day instead of four. The wedui.ig
feast was held at the house of the bride-
groom’s mother, and was attended by
Chinese, most of whom came in national
costume, their silks and glittering jewels
making a fine show.
The marriage of Mabel Wong and Charlie
Hee, which took place a few days later was
a much simpler affair, but scored in the
matter of crackers, which were exploded in
tremendous quantities.


STRENGTH
THE strength of the Leyland Lorry goes
back to British materials and workmanship
allied to the acknowledged superiorities of
British engineering, The most exacting tests
are applied throughout the various stages of
manufacture, and every vital part is inbuilt
with a liberal reserve of strength.
Judge for yourself the measure of Leyland
strength by the arduous haulage tasks these
lorries are performing throughout Australia
--and in every corner of the world.
See the Leyland on the job.
levfeffld,
ItYIAND. LANCS
m
Visit the Leyland Branch nearest you.
Ask for demonstrations and informative
literature.
TevlandMoiors
ENGLAND
Head Office for Australia:
24 Grosvenor Street, Sydney
Melbourne Depot:
Comer Villiers and Courtney
Streets, North Melbourne.
ē


1
S 3
O
Gfl
I
In the square
glass bottle with
the Green label
SILVER CAP
352 YEARS’
EXPERIENCE
guarantees
\ts quality
ĕ
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Fedeial Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
ė
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
PORCELAIN BTHS
By - MARGARET FANE AND HILARY LOFTING.
H-EJLt back was listless and heavy as she
bent over the old saucepan to stir the
foul liver-soup. Evil-smelling steam
billowed up in clouds into her face; all days
were begun in this heavy stench, standing
on the earth floor of this galvanised-iron
outhouse.
Behind her the yard was sullen and morose,
resentful of the hard, hot day that had just
broken upon its fitful, uneasy rest. Packing-
cases and mournful logs of wood, jumbles
of broken iron, a pile of tins and bottles
and garbage, hard-baked earth. Beyond these
tli(> back of the house was frowsy and dreary,
with dirty tea-towels on the verandah rail-
ing. The dirty windows looked blear-eyed
and overworked. Bob and Netty and Plum
■would soon be bickering in the kitchen, while
Dad yelled for a cup o’ tea. Soon Mrs. Wilks
would be making breakfast, snapping at her
and everyone in the kitchen. Breakfast over,
they would all be at work, the hard, driving
work implied by pigs and ducks in the poor
country.
The stinking soup boiled hard for the
allotted time, and Lily put her head into
the reeking steam and forked out the pieces
of liver. These she minced in the machine,
putting the minced liver into the pollard
and bran, moistening it with the soup, and
stirring the mixture round. One uncertain
ladleful of boiling soup splashed on to her
ankle. She winced and bit her lip, her eyes
narrowing and then opening wide under
the sudden intense pain. She completed the
filling of the two kerosene-tin buckets,
grasped the handles in her long thin hands,
and carried the buckets out of the over-
whelming stench of the outhouse. The
double load was heavy for a man, but Lily’s
shoulders drooped only a little. This was
the way all days began.
On the way from the outhouse to the
duck-pen the lilac distances of the poor
country seemed to mock her; but her face
remained gentle and quiet. A State child, she
had first been boarded-out here; when the
State’s responsibility had ended, she had
stayed on as unpaid help. This was home.
The ducks fed, there would be the pig-
troughs to fill —a dozen journeys with two
kerosene-tin buckets. Helping Mrs. Wilks
with breakfast; a morning of laborious
housework in the cramped, ugly house; help-
ing Mrs. Wilks with dinner; the afternoon
feeding and tending of the stock; tea; bed.
The far colors of the distances seemed to
watch her going steadily towards the duck-
pen with her double load. This was the
spring of her 19th year. The township and
the railway were eight miles away. And
all days had been like this one.
She filled the cut-down kerosene-tin that
did duty as a drinking-tin, and five ducklings
waddled up and promptly got into the water.
She took them out, one by one, her eyes
suddenly bright and her thin lips quivering.
They mustn’t swim in the drinking water —
mustn’t swim in the old pond or anywhere;
that would make them strong and happy
when they were only to be fattened for the
market. Abruptly her eyes filled and swift
tears coursed down her face. The tiny,
tender, golden things, like sunlight slipping
along the ground!
For a moment Lily’s arm covered her
eyes while she wept. The little beauties —
to waddle up with all that trust and look
at her and get into the water! And what
for? To go for a few months and be killed
and sent over to Linston. Was it all noth-
ing—to make the fluffy golden things to
kill them?
“’Do, Lil.”
Bert —Bert Alden from the next-door
place. She drew her arm across her eyes
and looked at him. He seemed to fill the
morning with foreboding, with a vague leer-
ing menace.
“Hullo, Bert.”
“Something gone crook?”
“No, nothing. Hot, isn’t it?”
“My oath it is. Goin’ to be a stinker
t’-day, Lil.”
Against her w'ill her gaze ran over Bert’s
broad shoulders, the brown column of his
neck, his sun-bleached hair, and came to
rest on his half-sheepish, half-confident eyes.
He grinned at her.
“You look good this mornin’, Lil.”
“Do I? I don’t feel it. I couldn’t sleep
for the heat.”
“Yairs. Pretty solid last night it was.
Well, so long, Lil.”
“So long, Bert.”
She watched him slouch away from the
fence across the baked earth of his father’s
place to the house. Bert had kissed her last
week. She had felt the great cords of muscle
under his shirt-sleeves. Watching him, she
felt them again. She knew what his bul-
locky eyes meant, and his coming to say a
word over the fence. Against her will she
watched his broad back diminishing in the
pitiless sunlight. Presently she sighed, picked
up the buckets, and went back to the out-
house.
She knew that life must have other ways
than this. On her fourth journey to the pig-
trdughs she felt the lightness touch her
again, the lightness that seemed, while she
" 'Been here long?’ he asked in a different voice.”
was thinking, almost to release her. Going as
deep as she could, she fixed her mind on the
porcelain bath. Last year she had seen it in
Abrahams’s window in Linston, its beautiful
silvery taps and smooth, shining surface.
Building up from it, she became gradually
free.
At home the bath was a galvanisod-iron
washing-tub whose use was allowed once a
week, all surplus water being the property
of pigs and ducks. It w r as greasy and
beastly against the skin, and made a bath
a necessary task.
From the porcelain bath a home grew
and came into being. A place of fresh
curtains moving softly in a breeze; of wire
screens, to the doors and windows and never
a fly in the house—like the pictures in
the store catalogues. Dainty coat-hangers
and shining floors; satin-covered sewing
stands; a large deep garden of flowers. A
gentle place with a wide bathroom and a
porcelain bath. Somewhere life must have
such things. They were in the catalogues.
In the stench and filth of the fly-filled
piggery she poured the last two bucketfuls
into the troughs. And perhaps three fresh
dresses on their hangers in the wardrobe;
and a bath whenever you wanted it in a
porcelain bath, white and shining
“Lil! Lil!”
She latched the gate and ran through
the blinding sunshine to the kitchen, a
great wave of flies screaming at her on
the back verandah.
“What ’appened you?” Mrs. Wilks snap-
ped. “ ’Ere’s the old man bawlin’ fer ’is
breakfast, an’ me that fussed —’ere, you
finish this bit o’ bacon while I make the
tea. ’E thinks Vs goin’ to sell Ron to Joe
Maguire”—she thrust the frying-pan into
Lily’s hands —“an’ ’c wants to get off.”
Lily turned the three thick rashers of
bacon. “Is lie going to sell Ron?” she
asked.
“If ’e can get the price, which ’e won’t
from Joe Maguire, ’course Vll sell—what’s
’e want with a saddle-horse on a pigs-and-
ducks?”
Lily put the rashers on a grey-looking
plate. Ron was beautiful —beautiful as a
colt when Dad got him for a bad debt and
beautiful now. When he was gone there
would be nothing here. She looked up from
the plate to find Mrs. Wilks’s eyes on her.
“Look, Lil, we can’t afford to give you
a good ’ome an’ the best of everything while
you go to sleep on it. You’re ’alf an hour
late from yer pigs—put the rashers in the
oven an’ tell the old man ’is breakfast’s
ready. Quick an’ lively, too.”
Making the beds she thought of herself
again in that home that must surely be
somewhere in life —the cool, lavender-scented
sheets in the linen closet in the bathroom,
the pillow-slips, the counterpanes. Life
could give you that, she was sure.
At dinner Dad’s contribution to the enter-
tainment was his opinion that .Toe Maguire
was a skite who hadn’t two bob to rub
against each other.
A pall of heat hung low down on the
afternoon. The ducks and the pigs were a
desolate weariness. Her back ached and
her narrow hands were heavy and sore.
The brazen evening came and tea. And
after tea Bert Alden, with a collar on and
his hair plastered down. He looked at her
as if she belonged to him. Twice she stopped
him speaking because she knew what he
was going to say and was afraid of it and
of him.
It was foolish not to take it. She knew
that, too. It would be better than this, if
not very diiferent. As Bert's wife she knew
that in the end life would be the same—
there would be no release. And that would
be going back on the porcelain bath. But
Bert was big and strong, and his eyes were
confident. Quick, sudden longings seized
her and shook her till she banished them,
in the end saying good night to Bert, who
slouched morosely out into the moonlight.
In the stifling little room she shared with
Netty she yet was in a wide gracious bed-
room filled with scents from the garden
beneath its windows.
The days lumbered by in their heavy labor,
and the young spring was a week higher in
the poor country. Lily, returning to the
outhouse with her afternoon buckets, saw
a motor-car forcing its way up the track.
It reached the gate, and a young man slipped
out of the driving-seat, a young nmu with
one arm and a Returned Soldier’s badge
in his buttonhole. He looked clear and
definite in the shambling, shabby yard.
“Is this where a man named Wilks livesV”
he demanded, touching his cap. Ills voice
was sharp and definite, too. Lily was con-
scious that it braced her, in a way.
“Yes. But he’s out.”
“Oh! Will he be long?”
“I don’t know. They mightn’t be back
till tea.”
“Anybody in?”
“Only me. They’ve all gone to Linston
with the pigs and table-birds.”
The young man was clearly disappointed.
His hard eyes looked at Lily, but softened
slightly as he smiled. “Are you Miss
Wilks?” he asked.
“No. I’m the help.”
He looked away from her and round the
jumbled yard. Lily was suddenly ashamed
of it.
“I’ve come a long way,” he said, “from
the other side of Nazeby, to see Mr. Wilks.
But I can’t wait all day to do it. I heard
he had a saddle-horse.”
“Yes, he has. But Plum’s riding Ron
into Linston to-day. He’s with them.”
He laughed, and Lily felt that bracing stir
again. “Looks like a washout, doesn’t it?”
She heard herself laughing, too. “Yes.”
“I want a horse, and if what they tell
me about this horse is true, it’s the one
I want. But I’m not going to”
“Oh, Ron’s a beauty, a real beauty.”
He' glanced at the yard and the house.
“How,” he began, but she interrupted.
“Oh, Ron’s not a bit like this. You
wouldn’t believe, if you saw him here. He’s
beautiful —all shiny and proud and beauti-
ful.”
The young man’s eyes came back from
the desolate yard and watched her for a
moment. “Been here long?” he asked in a
different voice.
“All my life,” she said, flushing suddenly.
“I think I’ll wait a bit for this cove. Can
we get out of the sun?”
On the verandah he lit a cigarette. “Poor
country, this. It beats me how they get a
living out of it at pigs and ducks.”
“It’s hard work,” she acknowledged.
“My game’s fruit. Henson, my nanie is
—Walter Henson. My mate and I have got
an orchard beyond Nazeby. Soldier settle-
ment.”
“Your land must be better than this.”
“It is,” he assured her. “It’s good coun-
try over the ridge. We run flowers and
bees, too. Fruit’s no good alone—not enough
in it. And too uncertain. But with flowers
and bees you can make out.”
“Fruit and flowers and bees,” she mur-
mured. “That must be bonzer.”
Once more his gaze came round to her
face and rested there for a moment before
he spoke. “It’s all right,” he said. “Cleaner
than pigs and ducks. But there’s not enough
exercise in it. That’s why I want a saddle-
horse. What’s your part of the job here?”
Lily told him some of her part of the job
there.
“Plenty of exercise in your job,” he said
at the end, flashing his bracing smile at
her.
Watching him she forgot that this was so
heavy a thing, tie brought something differ-
ent into this forlorn verandah. His clear,
hard eyes looking over the brown flats seemed
to ignore them; somehow she was half
ashamed that she couldn’t ignore them. Ite
was bright and strong and confident.
Abruptly she forgot all this heavy labor and
listened to his hard, curt voice telling her
of his mate and his mate’s sister who kept
house for them and was fussy but did them
well and kept the place good. She helped
with the flowers and the honey, too. They
hadn’t done too badly, all told, in the time
they’d been at it.
(Continued on page 53.)


A
/I TTVIIW
J-X bcatei
\vorld
/
UO
'W
)
IK
■Oi
.
i L
,cft*
r
\s
r Tirol
RVF
fwJS
r^V
OBTAINABLE AT ALLCABACE/
RP-20.
[patonJ
PERFORMANCE is the supreme test!
And it is by performance in every part of
the world that the British Rapson Tyre has estab-
lished its claim to be “The World’s Best Tyre.”
On road and track, wherever motors are, Rapsons have
led the way —and now, manufactured in the Common-
wealth, these supreme tyres are brought within the reach of
every Australian motorist. . . . For to-day you can go to
your garage and buy a Rapson at a price no higher
than you would be asked to pay for any other
leading make.
l
APSON
THE WORLD’S BEST TYRE
SPARE THE
PUMP —AND
SPOIL THE
TYRE
Look to your
pressures
Wholesale Distribution:
QUEENSLAND: Rapson Distributors (Q'land), Ltd.,
Brisbane.
N. S. WALES: Rapson Distributors (N.S.W.), Ltd.,
Sydney.
VICTORIA: Rapson Distributors (Vic.) Pty., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Rapson Distributors (S.A.), Ltd.
Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Rapson Distributors (W.A.), Ltd.
Perth.
TASMANIA: The Rapson Tyre & Rubber Co. (Aust.), Ltd.
Launceston.


Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Restful, quiet and cool—open to the Summer Sea Breezes. Delightfully situated with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service.
Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Summer Tariff f.'om 5 guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines). Management M. E. BURROWS,
The National Bank
of Australasia, Limited,
Established 1858,
fAFFERS to its customers a sound, progressive and friendly
Vy f ac ilities are available for the use of all
service.
people, whether their means be great or small, and cover all
banking needs, both in Australia and overseas.
Capital, Reserve and Undivided Profits —£8,398,000
3
0
K 5
Q
Banish that Hopeless
Feeling of Being * Too Old*!
Stop Backache
& Rheumatism
GET BACK THE JOYFUL ACTIVITY OF YOUTH!
You can now put an end to those aches and pains]
that rob you of all joy in life....an end to that
tired, aged, “all gone” feeling that sends you early
to bed at night restless and dispirited, while others
are just beginning the evening’s recreation! Such
premature conditions of old age are usually due
to uric acid or urinary trouble, and the remedy is
Harrison’s Pills. These will give you back the
elastic step of Youth —will make you feel years
younger, unhampered by backache, bladder weakness,
rheumatism and the like! Harrison’s Pills form the
one remedy that genuinely gets at the uric acid
cause of stiffness, dizziness, and ageing symptoms
generally. A single dose of Harrison’s Pills primes
their worth! Hundreds of testimonials have been
sent in by people who gained benefit from them
after other well-known methods of treatment had
failed. If YOU want to get free from your uric
acid handicap—if you would know the joy of
renewed vigor, free from pain and nervous “dizzy”
spells, just get a package of Harrison’s Pills from
the nearest chemist or store. Three sizes: 2/-, 3/-
and 5/-. If not pleased with the improvement in
your health, strength and bearing after just a
single trial, you can have your money back! Good-
bye to aches and pains!
e
If not near a chemist,
post your order to
Amalgamated Labora-
tories, Kembla Build-
ing, Sydney.
Remove the Cause of Rheumatism, Backache & Bladder Troubles
V
• ■. •;
NOW NEATLY CASED at same price!
A strongly-made grained-leather case is now provided with every Plum
Razor, at no increase in cost. With its blade set to perfection—guaran-
teed and kept in order for two years free—the Plum Razor shaves cleanly,
easily, quickly—leaves the most delicate skin smooth and comfortable.
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Real Ivory Handle 21/- „
Satin-lined double case free with pair.
7-day Sets—7 Razors in Case.
Black, 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory, 140/-
Post free to any address.
CR A I G & A I T K E N, 654 George Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
In the end he stood up. “I’ll be getting
back ” he said. “This cove’s making a night
f it. Tell him not to sell liis horse till
he's seen me. I’ll be over again—soon.” He
clicked his heels together and gave her Ins
one hand. “Good bye,” he sard. Good
luck.”
She saw the car forcing its way back over
the track and disappearing round the bend.
The vard looked more than ever poor and
shabby now that he hs.d gone. She put her
buckets away and went into the kitchen
They’d be wanting a kettle boiling when
they got back, and the table laid. The heat
seemed to swirl round her as she made things
ready for tea.
After tea Bert grinned sheepishly in the
back doorway, and came in to yarn with
Dad while slie washed up.
"Come out, Lil,” he said when she had
done.
His small eyes burned as he looked at her.
She had meant to say no, but somehow she
went out with him. At the fence bis hot,
strong hand, which felt like a paw, fell on
hers.
Something was driving her. Fearing and
hating the thought—nauseated by it—she yet
hoped in a dulled compulsion that Bert
would put his arms round her and kiss her
again. It terrified and shamed her. This
part of life—was it, too, terrifying and
murderous like the tender yellow ducklings
that trusted you while you fattened them
for death? Did it drive you on against your
will?
Bert’s hot breath seemed to envelop her.
In the moonlight she could see his clumsy
head bending towards her like a shapeless
mountain. The dark panic seized her again.
Would she go back, be herded back, to the
kitchen as Bert’s promised wife? That
would be a shambling, shameful thing, think-
ing of him as she did. Yet how could you
tell? Life took the ducklings, gave you
horrible work, wouldn’t even let you keep
comfortably clean. Was Bert not a reason-
able part of such
A friendly whinny broke softly into the
warm silence. R0n....
The one-armed young man and bis saddle
horse, liis hard, bright eyes! Fruit and
flowers and bees!
A gentle wind seemed to blow all the
strain out of the moment, leaving it fresh
and clear and, in some strange way, definite.
She laughed.
“Ron thinks we’re dotty,” she said thrust-
ing him back, “and I shouldn’t wonder but
what he’s right. Let’s go back, Bert.”
His narrow eyes clouded in sullen anger.
He pushed her hands aside, and caught and
held her to him by his great strength. She
smiled coldly into his working face.
“Ron’ll laugh at you again, Bert,” she
warned him. “And I don’t blame him,
either. Let’s go back.”
His arms fell in sudden defeat. Ilis eyes
burned for a moment into her face before
he slouched sullenly away across the pad-
dock to his own place, leaving her standing
there.
She had won for the moment. But would
she always win? Would she always want to
win? The fear touched her again. Watching
Bert’s broad back and his beefy walk, she
half regretted. Bert might be life’s way.
* # * *
The car came over the track and reached
the gate again. Again the yard looked for-
lorn and helpless behind Walter Henson’s
narrow head.
“That the saddle horse?” he asked, look-
ing at Ron by the fence.
“Yes, that’s him,’’ she said, and there
was pride in her voice.
“He’s good,” he said after a pause of
scrutiny. “Is this cove Wilks in to-day?”
“No. He isn’t. You’ve missed him again.”
“Bust him! Doesn’t he ever work?” He
stared bleakly at Ron.
“Do you like Ron? Are you going to take
him?”
“Yes. He’s mine all right, if the price is
right.”
Her face fell, and she sighed.
“’Why?” he asked in surprise. “What's
wrong—don’t you want me to have him?”
“Yes. Oh yes. It’s all right. I’ll be
glad to know lie’s with you. Only it’ll make
a difference.”
“How?” His puzzled eyes watched her.
“Well, he’s the only bit of beauty about
the place.”
“And I’ll be stealing the only bit of
beauty?”
“Yes. But it’s all right.”
For a moment he looked at her in silence.
Abruptly he laughed, a sudden warmth and
fervor transfiguring his face. Ills eyes shone;
a charm suddenly possessed him. “What
about yourself?” lie asked.
She stared at him, dazed and bewildered.
“Me? I’m not”
He laughed again. “You don’t know what
you are. You’ve never had a chanee to
learn, suffering anti slaving for other people.”
His eyes became grave. “Come over with
Ron,” he said. “Do you think you could,
girl?”
His face seemed to be all the sky and the
sunshine. She felt herself trembling as her
eyes looked dimly up into his. “Oh, I don’t
know”.... she heard herself murmuring.
“No. But I know, for both of us. I’ve
known ever since I saw you. You can leave
it to me. It’ll be all right for us both.
Will you?”
“Yes,” she heard herself saying.
He touched her hand. “Goodo,” he said
softly.
The laughter came back into his eyes.
“How about a walk down the wattle patch?”
It would take him three days, he told her,
to get things fixed. Then they’d be married
and go straight home.
“You won’t mind not going away for vour
honeymoon?” he asked. “Tom, my mate, is
taking his sister home to Melbourne —she’9
going to be married —and *l’ll have to be
on the place.”
“I’d rather go home,” she said gently.
“Tell me about it.”
“It’s a good little place. Five acres and
more if we want it. The house is good—
Ella’s a terror for keeping the house right.
It’s an old place—six good big rooms, and
she’s got them all fixed up with curtains
and polished floors and that. Built-in cup-
boards to all the bedrooms. You’ll like it.
And there’s the flower-garden and the bees
and”
“Has the house got a bathroom?”
He looked at her. “A bathroom? Of
course it’s got a bathroom. Water laid on.”
“The bath isn’t porcelain, is it?”
“Porcelain?” He looked at her again.
“Oh, yes—a porcelain bath and all the fix-
ings. Everything 0.K.”
Lily sighed in a deep dream of content.
All this wonder was hers. The wonderful
lover, the wonderful house. Fruit and flow-
ers and bees. Looking over the flats to the
mauve distances she could believe that
Walter was a real fairy prince whose sword
had touched the world into everlasting
beauty. Even to the porcelain bath her
dream-home had come true.
* * * *
The blossom was heavy on some of the
trees, and from some had blown in pink and
white mists to the ground. Great banks and
squares of bloom shone in the wide flower-
garden, where the perfume was heavy and
sweet. A breeze stirred the curtains in
the rooms, making their shadows stir in the
polished floors. Still deep in her rich dream,
Lily followed her husband through these
marvels. Could it be that life was truly
like this? It seemed too unreal—frightening,
somehow.
She paused at the bathroom-door, Abra-
hams’s window in Linston rising before her
memory with the splendid bath and its
silvery-shining fittings. She opened the door.
A nice big room, very clean and bright. At
one end a tin bath whose white paint was
wearing thin in patches.
“Walter!”
“Yes, girl?”
“I thought you said you had a porcelain
bath ?”
He chuckled richly. “Did I? Oh, well,
you seemed to expect it, and I had to make
a good impression. Sorry.”
Lily bent and touched the worn surface
of the bath.
A porcelain bath! After all, did it matter
—if you had Walter?
Like the sword of a fairy prince dreams
might turn ducklings into bees, the foul
slush of a pigs’ sty into a drift of fallen
blossom. But dreams weren’t realities. She
knew now.
Armed and content she laughed softly.
Funeral.
The men come quietly to the house;
Treading slowly, and one by one
They walk around him, and go again,
And stand outside in the sun.
The women wait in the darkened room,
Or hurry on tiptoes along the ball,
Or whisper together or say their beads.
Jesu Christe, guard us all!
The priest comes in and the women kneel
Behind him, he the dead beside.
And slowly to her knees bends down
One, weary-faced and beavy-eyed.
And then they call the bearers in.
The undertakers’ mincing men;
They lift and carry him away.
Never will he come here again.
Our lives are only leaves that fall.
Jesu Christe, shieid us all!
s.A.
D. P. McGUIRE.
To Violets in the North.
O lovely southern flowers! O tiny sweets
Of summer and spring and autumn all in
one,
Born under winter’s cold and desolate
leaves!
I hear a blackbird’s song,
And there is frost ice-riming everything.
I see a long red road, and a red horse
With silver trumpet breath. I hear the
clink
Of bit and stirrup, and I see the sun
Rise like a wraith, red-golden in the blue
And frail lace of light.
The air is magical;
Like music frozen still, and strange, and
icy-sweet.
There are pale crystal stars
Still quivering to beds of tourmaline.
Upon the hill the bluegums stir and drip,
And early morning smoke pours thinly out
Of my red chimney, scent of burning wood.
There is a woodbine breaking into flower;
A scarlet peach.
There is a pine with all her candles set.
There is the thrush’s rubied, fluting call,
And violets are round my singing feet,
Violets and thyme!
Purple and silver, parma-pale and set
With little golden hearts —the stars at end!
A rooster crows.... Such mud is on my
feet!
Red, red and red.
The passion-fruit are nipped.
The flaming rowan-tree is like a smear of
blood.
Winky, the cat, comes forth,
And all his fur stands up
Like ermine, and he meows,
Calling on Jacko, too, to come and chase the
birds.
“Milk!” say I, and he purrs,
A snowball at my feet.
There’s Tommy with his ears
Pricked up—there at the gate!
And Blossom 10w5....
What’s this?
I’m in a room
Some eight feet five by seven.
Poinsettias, and sun,
And dust, and whirring bells!
With violets, northern grown—
Drooping here in my hand.
Sweet violets... .and spells!
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN LUCAS.


w


Without a food your
hair will fall
Modern methods of living make it difficult for
Nature to carry out her work, for we wash
away the natural oil which protects and feeds
the hair.
The lack of this natural oil frequently spells
thin and grey hair, and, often, baldness.
Rowland’s Macassar Oil stimulates the growth
and nourishes the hair while supplying the
necessary oil.
ŵ
Of all Chemists,
Stores and
Hairdressers,
. HWancf’s
Macassar Oil
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.I,
ENGLAND.
K6O
A DELICIOUS FOOD
mmm
o^-
Z3GM?
*Ao*P&??f<£&£ZZ£2
r <'■'-•
3-v>
'CPtnJkf* fffiS
THE TRIUMPH OF
A FAMOUS
CHEESEMAKER.
You will never be disappointed in
the Cheese you buy if it bears
the KRAFT label.
KRAFT CHEESE IS MADE
IN AUSTRALIA.
Sold in cartons (as illustrated), and by weight by your Grocer.
&
a good
T i
or
/ nights rest
+J lake
e
it will ensure
a good days
work
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists
and Stores
‘‘l don’t follow you. When will he play
it?” asked Felspar, still in a maze.
“Whenever you marry. Then he’ll
threaten you with a disclosure that you
have already a wife living, and come at you
for hush-money as long as you’ll bleed.”
“What a diabolical conspiracy!” said Fel-
spar. “But surely, surely you are mistaken.
You have no proof?”
“I have no proof—of course, I haven’t.
I'm afraid, though, you are up against it.
but I’ll do my best to help you. I’ll see
the French Consul, and ask him to cable
to New Caledonia. The woman may be
dead, and I may be quite wrong, and Car-
ducci may be nothing more than he pro-
fesses to be. I’m often wrong. I hope I
am this time. Still, I should not like to
learn that Carducci is in Melbourne.”
“I will find out, though to me it seems
a waste of energy troubling about the Italian
in face of those cables from Paris. They
and the reply from New Caledonia, when
you get it, appear to me to alone touch the
issue. Heaven knows,” ho said with a sigh,
“they do not leave much room for hope!”
“I’m not so sure about that. Let me look
at the death certificate again.”
Clinton took the death certificate and
walked to the window to examine it in the
best light.
After scrutinising the document carefully
he gave a little grunt of satisfaction.
“Wait a minute,” he said, and left the
room. When he returned it was with a
mqgnifying-glass, with which he resumed
his inspection.
“I suppose,” he said, “before this certi-
ficate was stolen from you it was a reason-
ably clean document—not like it is now,
dirty and soiled?”
"Yes, it had been well kept,” replied Fel-
spar without much show of interest.
“Ah, I thought so,” exclaimed Mr. Clin-
ton in a satisfied tone and vastly interested.
“Do you know that it has several finger-
prints on it now?”
"I didn’t,” said Felspar, looking up from
the direction of his boots.
“Those finger-prints,” continued the old
man, “will respond to photography. What
we have to do is to find out whose fingers
put them there!”
“We can never do that. They may be
mine for aught I know,” observed Felspar
in a tone that conveyed that he had no
faith in that line of investigation.
Clinton was not perturbed at his visitor’s
want of faith or enthusiasm.
‘‘Leave the certificate with me,” he said.
“I’ll think the thing over and decide on a
line. It may be the main trunk which will
lead to startling results.”
“I hope so,” was all Felspar could bring
himself to say, so unimpressed was he with
Mr. Clinton’s surmises and promises of
“startling results.”
Chapter XVI.
The pace at which Gerald Deacon had
been travelling the road was such that he
awoke one morning to find that, instead of
having five thousand pounds, he had not
two hundred to his credit. His association
with the turf, his extensive acquaintance
with trainers and bookmakers, brought its
sequence of gambling at night, He was a
welcome visitor at houses where men sat
down to rob each other. Sometimes it was
daybreak before he rose from the card table.
Xot only did he become well-nigh bank-
rupt in pocket, but his health went to
pieces. He was no longer the clean, virile
Gerald who was able, in the old Miidura
days, to ride out a buckjumper. He was
half-crazed from insomnia, and in trying to
avoid sleepless nights he had drifted to
drugs.
As a drowning man clutches at a straw,
so Gerald caught at one small chance he
had to retrieve his financial position through
the Monaro colt. The Cup Carnival was
approaching. If his punting went wrong
at that meeting, Gerald knew he was down
and out. Miidura had done some very,
good trials. The touts and “prophets” had
begun to talk about the horse. For his big
race he was quoted in the betting at seven
to one, and his price was steadily shorten-
ing. In this trend of the market Gerald
thought he saw his opportunity. The “dead
birds” in racing, Gerald knew from experi-
ence, had a habit of not coming off. There
was no certainty as to how horses would
behave in any race, least of all in a great
handicap with a big field. Half a dozen
small happenings might make all the differ-
ence between winning and losing.
Gerald determined to eliminate those
risks, so far as he was able, and make
certain of winning money with the aid of
Mildura. He congratulated himself that
he had stuck to the colt.
He had become intimate with a book-
maker named Jerry Dalesmueh, a genius
who declared that he never departed from
the golden rule of backing figures against
horses. Jerry had leather lungs, earl} r
toughened as a peregrinating rabbit-
merchant, and a peregrinating rabbit-
merchant he remained until the science of
figures attracted him. He went then on to
the turf, and became a penciller of odds.
He was not troubled overmuch with scruples,
but. lie had the virtue of promptly paying
to his clients any wagers they might be
lucky enough to win.
It. was to Jerry that Gerald carried his
scheme for putting himself on his feet. After
considerable misgivings hi' had determined
to rook the public if lie could enlist the co-
operation of Jerry. He had a feeling that,
so long as Jerry felt he was not jeopardising
his bookmaker’s license, he would not be too
nice on points of turf morality.
It. was really Gerald who had qualms
about overstepping the line. In his hectic
career he had not so far done anvthing
downright dishonorable, and it gave him
some concern to think he was beginning to
play the part of a cheat. But what could
he do?
It was very improbable that he would be
found out, and success, if his colt’s price
continued to shorten in the market, was
assured. His ruin, if he did not pull off
the swindle, was certain. After all, why
should an owner consider the public? The
public came into the great turf game with
their eyes open. Bettors were fools if they
believed that an owner was going to ruin
himself to put money in their pockets.
Gerald and Jerry were sitting together in
the latter’s home, alone, with a bottle of
whisky between them. Gerald was doing
most of the drinking, while he unfolded his
plans for the coup. He was trying also
to justify himself to himself.
“How many owners,” he asked, “send
their horses to run out of condition, or
even have them pulled? How easy it is
to obtain a bad start, or to run out at the
turns!”
“It is,” agreed Jerry.
“You know very well, Jerry, that I’m
down and out if I do not rig the market
with Miidura. The odds are shortening
every day. What’s to prevent you snapping
up all the money that’s going on him? We
can run some rumors about secret trials
at daybreak. I’ll have them, too, and fake
the weights and bluff the stable boys, and
they’ll blab all right.”
Jerry nodded his head. He lit his pipe
and then delivered what was in his mind.
“The case is awkward—awkward. You’ve
little time to spare. Where you made the
mistake was in letting that Italian Dago,
Carducci, have too much rope. A few of
the quid he’s lugged you for would be
handy now.”
“I know my mistakes, Jerry. The ques-
tion now is what about getting to the
suckers?” said Gerald, taking another drink.
“It would be safer to scratch Mildura at
the last moment than to have him pulled,”
observed Jerry. “You see, though you put
two hundred quid in the bag, I stand to lose
more. I’m going outside my figure betting,
and getting into crook business. They can’t
run horses against figures, and there I’m
safe,” said Jerry sententiously.
“If I scratched Mildura I’d give my own
show away. I will not brand myself a
rogue,” said Gerald determinedly. “Be-
sides, Mildura in any case is unlikely to
win, and he’s certain not to if I square
Charley.”
“Charley’s a funny little devil, and his
career as a crack jockey is just starting.
He may not be on for pulling the colt,”
remarked Jerry.
“Leave that, to me,” Gerald replied
roughly and masterfully. “You go and pick
up all the money you can. Lay against
Mildura till the cows come home, and keep
a clear account of the bets, so that we’ll
have no trouble between us on the day of
our settlement.”
Jerry was won over at last. Gerald left
him to go out to Caulfield to start the
rumors that were to make Mildura a hot
favorite for the race.
The scheme worked well. The public
laid their money freely on Mildura. Jerry
extended his commission to other book-
makers; and, though there was apparently
plenty of money to be obtained from the
rmg against Miidura, the punters continued
to plunge on the colt’s chances. Some of
the knowing ones were suspicious, but as
the odds grew shorter and shorter their
suspicions were'lulled.
Jerry Dalesmuch had one weakness, and
Marie had found it out. She had smiled
on Jerry. At race meetings she had re-
turned the pressure of his hand and had
raised him, for the moment, to a heaven
of expectation.
Jerry saw plainly that it was inevitable
that Deacon must come a crash financially,
and that his life must be a short one, too,
if he continued drugging and drinking.
There would be a fine young widow running
loose at Deacon’s death—a woman any man
would be proud to call his own. Jerry
thought if he could capture her he would
not mind giving her diamonds and expen-
sive dresses. She was worth spending money
upon—“up to, say, a thousand quid.”
Under her influence Jerry did not stop to
reflect that he might himself be played
with. Marie, for her part, had no illusions
about men, no\V that she was the experi-
enced wife of such a man as Gerald Deacon
had become. Had Jerry known it, he was,
as his turf friends would have put it,
scratched before the ink was dry on his
entry.
About a week before the Cup was run,
Marie told Gerald that she required money
wherewith to back Mildura—a couple of
hundred pounds would be sufficient, she
said. The request led to a violent quarrel,
the keynote being that she had ruined him,
that he had no money, and that if he hat/
he would not give it to her to back Mildura.
since the horse could not win, and was not
intended to win. He ended up by saying
that if they didn’t like it the Carduccis
could all “go to Hell out of his sight!”
After a talk with her mother, who also
was keen to back Mildura, the wish being
due to a dream of saintly origin, Marie
went to the entrance of Tattersall’s Club
and managed to see Jerry Dalesmuch be-
lore he entered. Jerry was, in his own
words, “tickled to death” to see her. Marie,
telling the story to her mother, described
him as “nearly falling over himself.” She
smiled, she laughed, she pouted; every
art, of which she was mistress was put to
full use. To himself Jerry said, months
afterwards, in excuse for his fall, the Adam
in him succumbing to the Eve in Marie,
“The witch fair dithered me!”
When Marie had led Jewry to a tea-room,
and they had sat at a small table, close
enough to complete the man’s subjection,
Marie, in the sweetest of voices, broached
the question of a loan. She had need of
£2OO.
“That’s a lot of money to lend a lady
without security, isn’t it? Without any-
thing for it?” he said in a voice that showed
to Marie that he was open to capitulate if
handled skilfully.
“Oh, I don’t think so,” said Marie, drop-
ping sugar into her cup. “There’s plenty of
bookmakers who would be glad to lend
me a good deal more than £200.”
“I suppose they would—if they got
interest for it.”
Marie laughed wickedly. “I know the
interest you want, Jerry. Lend me the
money and we’ll see what we can do for
you later.”
“Honest?” he askgd eagerly.
Marie was too good an artist to answer
him in words. She turned her eyes demurely
to her cup.
“You’ll do me, Marie, you’ll do me I”
he said. “How much—£2oo?”
“Please.”
Jerry wrote a cheque. He held it in his
hand, thoughtfully, looking at Marie.
Marie whispered, “Don’t tell my husband
that you even saw me.”
Jerry was satisfied. The whisper con-
quered him. He handed the cheque to
Marie.
Marie and her mother laid the £2OO on
Mildura to win the Cup, and stood to win
£l2OO. They kept the bet a close secret
from Gerald and Carducci.
Two days before the race was run it was
even money MiMura.
* $ * *
At, six o’clock on the morning of the race
Gerald motored out to Caulfield to see
Mailson, his jockey, and tell him that the
horse must not win the race. ■ The owner
went straight to the point. If Mildura
caught the eye of the judge first he was a
ruined man, and Mailson would have
brought that catastrophe upon him.
“I am sorry to hear you put it that way,
sir,” Mailson answered.
“Mildura must lose,” the other declared
decisively.
“I’d rather throw up the mount than pull
him,” the jockey said, quite as firmly.
“You can’t throw me over like that,”
Gerald replied. “Why the devil are you
making all this fuss? You can get a bad
start; you can get left on the barrier. The
thing is simple enough.”
“No, it is not. We are watched pretty
close by the stewards, and it’s no game
for me. I’ve ridden straight so far, and I’m
not pulling any horse for any man. It’s
not only dirty, it’s dangerous.”
“Nonsense! Don’t tell me that, Charley.
You know as well as I do that in a big
field you can be interfered with a dozen
times. Mildura can be bumped and jostled
out of his stride in the crowd of horses
hugging the rail. Damn it, I know what I
am talking about!”
Something of Gerald’s old spirit appeared
in the impatience he showed at the qujet,
though determined, opposition given to his
(Continued on page 58.)
Three Weeks
w


Banking. Public Companies, etc,
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5.000,000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £8.369.065
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928.. £18,633,-153
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; li. It. I.YSAGHT, 0.8. R. ;
GEORGE J. SLY, 1.L.1). ; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER: C. M. C. SHANNON.
CIUEF INSPECTOR: \V. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON It HANOI I: (»*_» Itisliopygnto, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by I 86 Brandies
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 016,210
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,7;>0,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,732,52 a
GRANTS DRAFTS g**^**;
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
G HYATT’S
SAFETY TRUSS
FOR
COMFORT
DURABILITY STRENGTH
w
WE stock and make to order, trusses
for all occupations. Light, comfort-
able, washable, and easily , adjust-
able, showing considerable advantage over
all other makes. Single Truss as illustrated,
30/-; double 40/-.
Write or call for free Truss Pamphlet.
„ GUYATT & CO.
Dept. 257 a George Street, Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read tlie British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency. Ltd., 850 George Street, Sydney:
nv 484 Collins Street. Melbourne.
Keep hopping Mil hoping if you wish
to succeed
e
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL &C Lio.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Officer 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
■Jibe
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion' is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to —
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from —
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
Shipping, etc.
In the Isles
of Enchantment
SOFTLY cradled in the Pacific, like tropical
flowers afloat on the surface of a pond,
the Isles of Enchantment beckon to wearied
Australians. In their deep restfulness are the
gentle weaving of palms, the caress of wind
in the trees, the murmur of surf, the scent of
strange blossoms, the majesty of green-mantled
mountains, the beauty of thatched roofs
between fruit-trees.
These await you at Rarotonga and Papeete,
or at Suva and Honolulu, and in addition an
ocean holiday at less than the cost of a city
vacation.
Particulars from —
UNION STEAM
SHIP COMPANY,
247 George Street,
Sydney.
59 William Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
in
M
/»
£•
-t.
rm
t-~i:
'r-* r -*
i%9a
■r
-». A.
■Qv
STEAMSHIP PASSAGES
Arranged by All Steamship Lines.
Choice of Any Route. Without Extra Charge.
ENGLAND
FRANCE
ITALY
GERMANY
From AUSTRALIA
AMERICA
CANADA
MEXICO
AFRICA
to
JAPAN
EGYPT
INDIA
CHINA
Also attractive tours to Honolulu, Java, Colombo, Fiji, etc.
BUSINESS TRIPS. PLEASURE CRUISES.
AUSTRALIA TO
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
VISIT JAVA (“The Garden of the East”)
Monthly sailings maintained by the popu-
lar steamers “MARELLA” and “MALA-
BAR” from Melbourne, Sydney and
Brisbane, via Queensland Ports, Torres
Strait, Darwin, etc.
For Reservations and Information apply
sasL
a
-■r BSf
m
m
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. And all Branch Offices.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Ulysses ... 15,000 tons, May 10.
fThemistocles 11,500 ~ June 10.
fßunic .... 12,500 ~ July 10.
*Ascanius . . 10,000 ~ July 22.
fEuripides . 15,000 n Aug. 6.
-First class only. tFirst and Third class.
{“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson Ltd • 1 Joint
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. J AffentB
Come and See—See and Stay.
HAWAII
HAWAII
HAWAII
To enable holiday makers and travellers to visit
these beautiful island gems of the South Pacific,
excursion rates are available all the year round.
First-class passages from £75, second-class from
£55, with first-class Hotel Accommodation as
low as from 12/- to £3 per day with meals,
assist the pleasure seeker to make the Hawaiian
Islands the real dream holiday.
Surfing, surfboard-riding, golf, tennis and
motoring (motorists may bring their own cars
or hire one locally at exceptionally low rates),
can all be indulged to the fullest in ideal
surroundings. Inter-island cruises. Visit
Kilauea volcano.
Come, here is the holiday of a lifetime offering
in
HAWAII—HAWAII—HAWAII
Inquire fullest particulars at all steamship or
travel agents, or from this office direct.
HAWAII TOURIST BUREAU,
Dept. 26, Box 162788, G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
established isn
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
WALES
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund. .
Reserve Liability
w
e
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20,900,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30. 1928. £88,982.585.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
55i Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable
and
dated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents ana correspunueuts uuuugnout tne world,
le remittances"made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOJt MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
FOR BRISBANE, MAOKAY, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS
(Transhipping for outports). __
TO EUROPE-
Via UNITED STATES & CANADA
See Honolulu, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Chicago,
Niagara Falls, New York, Vancouver, Montreal, Que-
bec, and travel across the Atlantic on one of the
luxurious
CUNARD LINERS,
including the
H.M.S. AQUITANIA, R.M.S. BERENGARIA.
46,000 Tons. 54,000 Tons.
R.M.S. MAURETANIA,
30,000 Tons.
Return Tickets issued by the Suez Canal and Cape
Lines are available for this route.
Apply for particulars of reduced through rates to
CUNARD LINE
(C. and D. Line),
1 BENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Splendid Cheap Service
Via Suez Canal
FAST OIL BURNERS
In conjunction with Sailings via South Africa.
Excellent Menu. Late Dinner.
Fares to London from £3B.
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For particulars apply
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Box 513 AA, 5 O’Conna'.l St., Sydney.
’Phone: BG7OI
BRISBANE,via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening ; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR— Every Tuesday evening;
passeii<™rs due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
1 Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £-7/6/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/1 o/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart ParkerL^Ssr
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND— ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice vena.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars appIy HODDART PARKERLIMITE3
Collins Street, Melbourne: Bridge Street, Sydney.
niiiiii
w
If any illustration in The Btjlletjs' takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.


w
For Any Travel
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
e
The accredited Agents of all Steam
Ship Lines. Their expert guidance and
special facilities cost you nothing
TO EUROPE 1930
Apply now for accommodation, as
berthing plans for all steamers are open.
WINTER TOURS
To Queensland, Bali, Java, Siam,
Japan, Hawaii, Malaya, Sumatra, Indo-
China (Saigon, Pnom-Penh, Angkor).
STEAMER EXCURSIONS
Cairns, South Sea Islands, Fiji, Tahiti,
Honolulu, Ceylon, Java, Japan and
Manila, etc.
COOKS’ TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
Are the safest and most convenient
means of carrying funds.
Sailing Lists , Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street,
ADELAIDE:
49 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Buildin
Adelaide Street
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
2 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your fancy, write
to the Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
Justice.
THOMAS P. BAKER
TELLS A THRILL TNG STORY OF .4 GIPPSLAND
MYSTERY.
THE car came dustily round the corner
by the barn, passed the ugly black
patch where the house had stood, and
turned down the drive to the road. Simeon
W hite did not look at the wreckage as he
went by, for lie was by this time accustomed
to the sight, and, besides that, he was on
urgent business.
He had buried his son, the victim of that
charred jumble of bricks and timber, three
hours before, and was newly home from the
funeral. It had been a constrained and grim
affair because of the suspicions still unsatis-
lied, but on the return journey he had heard
the news that was now sending him back to
the township. The neighbors for the most
part had been silent and uncommunicative,
but one chance remark had reached ears for
which it was not intended. Bob Calder had
bolted, gone without any farewell or explana-
tion, and every man there wondered what
Simeon would do when he heard. The Cal-
ders and Whites were ancient enemies.
Simeon knew how circumspectly he would
have to make his inquiries, for it is a dan-
gerous thing to whisper of murder and men-
tion names where there is no proof. But
there was one man in the Glen to whom he
could talk with safety, and that was Charlie
Rickards, who kept the small but efficient
gonernl store and post office. To Charlie in
time came most of the gossip of the district,
and he would know the truth about Calder.
The affair of Dave White’s death was the
most enthralling mystery the Glen had
known, lie had been found lying face down-
wards beside one of the still-standing chim-
neys, with his body half-buried in the debris.
When they dragged out what the flames had
left of him they found his breast sticky
around a bullet-hole. “Bullet-hole,” at least,
was not entirely correct. He had been shot
in the chest with a small-bore shot-gun. The
facts admitted of many theories. Simeon
had his own, which was that the family he
hated had at last overstepped itself and given
him a chance of revenge. The two farms
adjoined, and Calder could easily have known
that Dave would be alone that night. Simeon
drove with intense concentration, pushing
the old car to its utmost, for he wished to
get to Rickards as soon as he could. There
had been two days wasted already.
The wide main street with the level cross-
ing at the bottom was dusty, bare and
utterly devoid of life. The school-children
were still droning over their lessons under
the trees in the playground, and the heat
seemed to have killed all other activity. A
dog slept uneasily in the shade of a wall.
The handful of houses and shops baked in
the sun. He pulled up at Rickards’s ver-
andah and went into the shady, slightly-
cooler store.
Rickards was a tall, thin, fiercely hook-
nosed man with startlingly blue eyes. The
two had arrived in Port Phillip Bay with
precisely eighteen shillings between them,
and after forty years Simeon was fattening
bullocks in Gippsland and Charlie had estab-
lished himself seven miles away. He looked
up, nodded and continued to arrange a pyra-
mid of biscuit-tins. “Expected you in,” he
said. _ “Sorry I couldn’t get to the affair this
morning, but there was nobody to mind the
pi sice.”
“I heard the news to-day.” said Simeon,
and I want the strength of it. Somebody
was at our place that night and killed Dave.
All this talk about suicide is nonsense. You
know that as well as I do. Dave wasn’t
that sort. Is it true young Calder’s run
off?”
Rickards nodded. “Yes, he’s gone; but
whether it’s got anything to do with the
other business I don’t know. You can draw
your own inferences. Your place was set
light to, I suppose, round about midnight
Sunday. He caught the twenty to six Mon-
day morning. It’s possible—mind you, I only
say possible. What time did you get backV”
“About nine on the Monday morning. I’d
took Mum and Elsie up to her sister’s place
for the week-end, just leaving Dave to see
to the cows and so on. When we got back
that was what we found. The house burnt
down and Dave”
"Bob booked straight through to Mel-
bourne. He came in on that new pony of
hi.s with tlm white blaze, and Vance, down
at the station, said he seemed queer—kind
of jerky and frightened. He tied the pony
up, and when Vance spoke about leaving her
there he said his father would be down for
her later. That at least was a lie. Old
Jack knows nothing of it, and can’t say
where Bob’s gone. But Bob isn’t your man.
Even if he had an accident and killed some-
body he’d never run away afterwards. So
go slow.”
"You think a bit,” said White obstinately.
He looked round, but they had the shop to
themselves. “Didn’t he and Dave have a row
before over some red-haired girl or other?
Dave gave him a belting, and it’s rankled.
They were both after her still. It fits,
Charlie.”
"It fits like a glove,” said Rickards; “only
you can pull a glove off as easily as you put
it on. You’ve got no proof to fasten it there.
You keep your mouth padlocked or you’ll
meet trouble. If you ask me you’re letting
that old fuss with Calder count for too
much.”
“Calder did me out of an acre an’ a half
of land over that fence,” said the old man
fiercely. “For all he’s my brother-in-law he
stooped to cheat me like that.” Rickards
was watching him, and he knew and re-
sented his thought. “Maybe,” he said, “you
think I wouldn’t be so sharp after anybody
else. Well, you’re wrong. All I want is
-imple justice. Somebody killed my boy,
and it makes no difference who it was. The
law's for everybody.”
"You'll find the sergeant there if you want
to lay anything against Bob. But I wouldn’t.
on don’t know that he was within a mile
of your place that night.”
"So, but that’s the only thing missing.
Trust a Calder to be cunning. And if he
didn’t have anything to do with it why did
he run away? See here.”
He pulled out a heavy old-fashioned silver
watch. “This was Dave’s. It’s all we’ve
got left of him. It was still ticking when I
took it out of his waistcoat pocket, for he
laid on it and partly protected it. Every-
where else the clothes were burnt right off
him. He looked terrible.” He stopped
abruptly as the brilliant oblong of the door-
way was darkened by another customer.
“I’ll take another kerosene lantern, Charlie,”
he said in his normal voice. “We’re living
in the barn till we get the new house up.”
With the lamp in his hand he turned to
leave, and came face to face with old-man
Calder, Bob’s father. An unwinking stare
passed between them, and it. seemed to
Simeon that the other had grown much
older. Jack Calder, indeed, moved like a
man in a dream. Ilis son had disappeared,
and he well knew the rumors that were
about.
It was late in the afternoon when Simeon
got back. In tin 1 barn the two women moved
about setting the tea on an improvised table
of planks and empty casks. They slept there
now, and Simeon spent his nights in the
stable. The new house was to be started
next day and rushed up as quickly as pos-
sible, and meantime he had refused all offers
of temporary accommodation. It was a
makeshift living-room; the chaff for the
horses and oil for the car were stacked there,
and scythes and odd implements hung on the
walls.
The old man said nothing of his journey
until the meal was over, though both of them
knew his reason for going.
“Calder’s cleared,” he said at length. He
looked menacingly at his wife. “You don’t
believe he did it, of course, and neither does
Rickards. You always were soft over that
boy.”
“lie’s Mary’s boy,” she said simply. “He
could no more have done that to Dave than
he could have done it to me. It’s only be-
cause of that grudge”-
“Grudge?” her husband said furiously.
For the second time his motives had been
questioned. “I ted l you lie’s bolted. It
doesn't matter whose boy he is. Murder’s
murder; and justice is justice.”
She twisted her hands together. “Some-
thing bad’ll come of it,” she said. “If Dave
could hear you now he wouldn’t stand it.”
“Oh, do shut up,” said Elsie Avitli a shiver.
“It’s bad enough to be sleeping in a place
like this without talking about ghosts. It’s
going to be windy to-night, too, and there’ll
be enough noises without imagining them.”
She looked Avitli disgust round her sleeping-
quarters, and at Simeon’s request lit the
spare lantern for him—he wanted, he said,
to go out and get the bars and spades ready
for the morning.
He crossed the yard with the flame flicker-
ing in the rising wind and a long black
shadow jumping and leaping beside him. He
looked up at the sky. The stars Avere hidden
behind the cloudbank that had crept up from
the west, but the weather did not trouble
him. Rain would do his pastures ‘no harm,
and the barn was thoroughly watertight.
He went round the side of the dairy,
where two crowbars had been left beside a
stack of empty cases. One had fallen down
behind, making it necessary to move the
boxes. As he shifted the last one the gleam
of his lantern shone on a long, polished bar
of metal that was certainly not a crowbar.
When lie rose lie Avas holding a small-bore
shot-gun, and the name on the barrel put
the matter beyond doubt. It was the only
gun of that size in the district—young Cal-
der’s .410.
Next minute, crowbars and neAv house for-
gotten, he Avas stumbling back to the barn.
ThroAving the door open he stood Avitli his
find extended in both hands. He had vindi-
cated himself.
“Look at that !” he said. “Do you see
Avhat it is? Now tell me if he Avas here
that night !” lie took his coat down from
behind the door and began to struggle into
it.
“Where ’re yon going?” asked his wife
quickly.
“To the police, of course. The sooner I
get there the sooner they’ll find him.”
“It'll be raining in a minute, and the
road’s bad enough as it is. Hark at the
Avind.” A furious gust SAvept down upon
the barn as she spoke, and she looked fear-
fully over her shoulder.
He pulled his haf over his eyes. “I’m
going,” he said. “It's a duty hoav. You
know Avhat the Book says—‘An eye for an
eye.’ ” He picked up the gun and tapped it.
“This is the gun that did it, and I’d give it
to the police if I Avas hanging my oavh
brother.” He closed the" door quietly behind
him, but on his Avay to the motor-shed his
heart was full of savage exultation. Not
only was revenge at hand, but it Avas his
duty to take it. He almost licked his lips
over the Avord.
lie backed the rusty, mud-spattered car
out and buttoned down .the dilapidated side-
curtains. In daylight it was quite possible
to get to the Glen and back in an hour, but
to-night it would be a different proposition.
Ills dim headlights AA'ould slioav only the
edges of the dangers that he passed.
As lie started rain began a steady patter
oil the hood, lie jolted down the drive, and
Avhen he reached the bottom deliberately
tin ned left and took the short cut. It would
clip tAVO miles off the journey to the village
but he knoAv that that would not be all gain’
The road bending to the right was flat and
comparatively unadventurous—for Gippsland
whereas the one he folloAved held °rim
warnings against carelessness.
Out in the open he realised that the storm
Avas really a bad one, and when he got on
the hillsides and the Avorld on his left-hand
side became a black bottomless pit he almost
turned back. The blue-gums bent sullenly
to the gale; he could feel them over him as
he crept from curve to curve.
<<™ ln •,? ne T7M I u lace >. 01 \ - th , e , short cut was the
Devils Elbow, which had been the scene
of many mishaps. A car going over there
would not even roll, though it might turn
over twice before the hungry rocks received
(Continued on next page.)


ZTZ —,,
w.
J /I
v,
Z J
/'hz*
t///L
M
Dr. Zam-Buk’
(First-aid Expert)
F7VERY hom? should be up-10-cate In Its
first-aid equipment. Prompt measures
of the right sort save pain, worry and expense
—not to mention danger to life and limb.
You cannot, therefore, afford to be without
Zam-Buk, the “surgery in a two-inch box.”
It is no use in an emergency finding on your
shelf a lardy ointment that has gone rancid
and lost its potency. You want Zam-Buk
because, being free from both animal fat and
mineral drugs, it keeps indefinitely and is
always of even medicinal strength. This
high efficiency as a first-aid and skin remedy
comes from the rare herbal origin and careful
scientific production of Zam-Buk.
Zam-Buk soon takes the pain out of an
injury or sore place, it allays inflammation
and swelling in its own irresistible way; and,
after drawing out all impurity, it promotes
growth of new skin.
am
Buk
FREE Samples of Zam-Buk Balm and Medici-
nal Soap will be sent, post paid, on request.
Forward name and address to Messrs. C. E.
Fulford (Aus.) Ltd., P.O. Box 21, Surry Hills,
N. S. W. Regular size boxes 1/6 and 3/6.
wishes. The masterfulness that was inherent
in him before he had weakened his will-
power flashed at intervals. He reassured
himself with the assertion —“Danin it, I
know what I am talking about.”
“Maybe you do, sir; but you don’t know
how much you are asking of me, a jockey
with a clean record.”
“See here, Mailson, it can be done, and
you’ve got to do it. The race is full of
chances. I’ve heard the shouts of jockeys
above the racket of the horses’ hooves. ou
can be pocketed, and yell the loudest of all
for galloping room, and so make your
defence good with the evidence of other
jockeys, in the very unlikely event of an
inquiry. Or you can be half-blinded with
flying mud, and so run wide, losing ground.
Don’t tell me a jockey can’t lose a race
without someone knowing! I know better.
Let Mildura be thrown out of his stride a
few times and up will go the horse’s head;
and when he does that, all the eyes glued
to the battery of field-glasses will see he’s
in trouble. After the race is lost, every-
body will be able to tell everybody else
why Mildura, notwithstanding his speed
and stamina, sagged at the finish. Hell! If
I could scale your weight I’d put on the
green jacket and red cap myself. It’s dead
easy.”
“It’s a dirty bit of business to ask me to
do, sir,” said Charley firmly. “I don’t like
it. I won’t do it. You had better get some-
one else to ride the horse.”
“It’s too late, and I can’t trust anyone
else.”
“Well, you know what to do,” replied
Charley.
“Scratch him, you mean? No, I can’t
do that. I’d be giving myself away by
doing it. The public would howl me
down.”
“You don’t mind giving me away. Why,
if I was had up before the stewards for
pulling the horse I’d be wiped out, and
that’s no good to me with a sick kid and
all. Would you keep us? I don’t think!”
Harder and harder Gerald pressed the
jockey. He pleaded. He asked him if he
was the man to see another ruined when by
a little delay he could spoil Milduca’s
chance of winning the race.
Mailson was so badgered and cajoled
that he hardly knew what he was doing.
In the end he promised that Mildura should
make a bad start.
Gerald was satisfied. He had, he hoped,
saved himself. He honestly believed that
Mailson had little to fear—that discovery
was next door to impossible. He should be
well paid, anyway—he should have a share
of the win.
f To be continued.)
it. The road swung in a terrifying half-
circle, with one side sheer wall and the other
emptiness.
As he crept round, keeping close to the
inside, his single headlamp flared up in
momentary brightness and incontinently ex-
pired. The night, wet and howling, closed
on him.
He stopped the car and got out, and as he
bent over the radiator he heard a tearing,
rending noise above the din. It ended with
an unmistakable concussion. A tree was
down, and, by the sound, a big one !
Ilis oil tail-lamp gave a feeble glimmer
from the side window, and with it in bis
hand lie went forward to see if the fallen
tree was near the road, lie found it lying
aslant across the track, massive and impass-
able, its trunk five feet through, its head
overhanging the gulf on the left. The failure
of his lights had saved him! A car round-
ing tlie corner would have no chance. It.
would meet that smooth barrier at an angle;
one wheel would dip over the edge, and the
Devil’s Elbow would have another notch in
its record.
It took half an hour for the car, with the
dim tail-lamp lashed to the front axle, to
grope its way back to the house. The women
were sitting as he had left them, Elsie
stolidly knitting and the mother listening to
the sounds of the storm.
The woman turned as he came in. relief
in her face. “Back a-ready!" she exclaimed.
“Blew a light out,” he said briefly. "Get
me those spare bulbs.”
“Surely you ain’t going to try again !” she
cried. “Not to-night, anyway. There’s been
noises outside as if somebody was walking
about. Dave was always fair, you know,
and where he is now perhaps he can see. I Ie
wouldn't like it.”
“She’s been like this ever since you went,”
said Elsie. “Perhaps you’d better stop.”
“I don’t care,” the mother said obstinately.
“Listen.” She held up her hand, and in the
moment's silence they all heard it. The wind
might have caused it in fifty different ways,
but it had been uncannily like a stealthy
footfall.
“There it is again,” she said with a shiver.
“Stay home, Sim. It’s a wild night, and
there’s been murder done close by. They
say” She stopped and clutched at his
arm.
A slow step came on the gravel outside —
a step, and a knock on the door.
Not one of them moved. They stared
like birds fascinated by a snake.
The door opened and a figure stumbled in.
Face haggard and bloodstained, clothes caked
with mud. It was Dave!
He came in and stood blinking in the light.
“I’ve come back,” he said at last. “And
I’m hungry.”
Simeon’s jaws came slowly together again,
lie had a quick brain, and already suspected
the truth.
“Wait a minute,” he said slowly. “We
buried what was meant for you this morn-
ing. If it wasn’t you”
Dave looked round at all three of them.
He seemed to be measuring their attitude.
“It was Calder,” he said. “I shot him.”
“You must ha’,” muttered the old man,
and sat down suddenly. “And wliat’re you
back for?”
“The police are close behind. I don’t
know whether you’re going to give me up or
not. and I don't care much now. I’m broke
and starving. This was the only place I had
to come to, or you would never have seen
me again. But if I am going on I’ll have to
hurry.”
“How did it happen, anyway? You didn’t
shoot to kill? It was an accident—tell me!.”
Simeon could not drag his thoughts away
from his own words of that very day—“an
(■ye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.”
“I know what the police’ll call it,” said
Dave grimly; “and the jury, too. I killed
him all right. I lost my temper in the
beginning, and after that everything seemed
to come ready to my hand. If you can
believe it, he even brought the gun with him,
for he was out after rabbits and took the
chance of seeing me. We quarrelled—about
a girl—and it came to a fight. I can't
remember now what I said, but it must have
been pretty bad, because he hit me on the
mouth. He’d stood the gun against the
fence, and when I went down the second
time I fell right against it. and next instant
I’d done it. He was coming for me and I
let him have it.”
“And how about him meeting the early
train? He rode the new pony and all!”
“It wasn’t Bob. After that shot I think I
must have gone mad. My head was full
of lights and noises that wouldn’t let me
think properly, but I got the idea that if I
dressed in his clothes it would help me to
disappear. I didn’t stop to think where to.
I dragged him inside and changed clothes,
and as I got up I knocked the lamp over.
I could have put it out quite easily, but —
well, I just let it go on. It couldn’t hurt
Bob any more.”
“Ye must have fooled Vance well.”
“It was hardly daylight when the train
came through, and lie took me for Bob
straight away. The horse and the clothes
did it. I got to Melbourne and saw in the
papers that the police were on the job, and
yesterday”—his face whitened—“they came
to the very place where I was! I saw them
in time and got away, and I thought I'd
double-back on them. But they haven’t
given up. I had enough money to bring me
half-way back, and walked the rest. That’s
the story. If I’m to get away you’ll have
to help me, because I can’t do any more on
my own.”
There was a silence in the dimly-lit,
draughty barn. Outside the wind caught a
loose sheet of iron and rattled it against the
wall.
“You’d better take the car.” said the old
man at last.
Dave stirred slightly. He had won !
Simeon reached for the box of spare bulbs
on the shelf in the corner.
“I’ll be getting her ready,” he said, with
his hand on the latch. “Don’t be too long.”
He went out into the dark, wind-swept
yard. The closeness had passed, and the
keen smell of wet turf came up to him. He
looked across in the direction of Calder’s
farmhouse, and three pictures, one after
another, formed in his mind. The first was of
himself, harsh and intolerant, calling on the
iron justice of the Mosaic law’. It had
sounded well, but somehow 7 he had never
thought of it as applied to his own flesh and
blood. The second picture w r as of a woman
hearing her son sentenced to the lowest of
deaths. Nothing would keep her away from
the trial, and if she understood the ending
it would kill her. And then, on top of the
other two images, he saw 7 old Calder’s face
as he had seen it that morning.
There was a noise at the door behind him
and he hastily bent over the car. Dave
came out and threw a packet of sandwiches
into the back seat. He paused for a last
word with his father.
“You know,” he said awkwardly, “I more
than half-expected you to give me up. But
blood's thicker than water, isn’t it?"
“Aye.” said the old man gravely. “You’d
better take the short cut. Dave. Not so
much chance of meeting anybody.”
"Bighto,” Dave nodded, lie let the clutch
in and the ear moved forward.
As lie took the left-hand road lie was still
marvelling. “Shook hands! The old man
shook hands! First time lie's done that since
I can remember.”
He shrugged and opened the throttle.
Milestones.
Men have* hoped for the star,
Men have groped in the slough;
But, leaving a fading thought or a painless
scar,
The moods come, the moods go.
Distrust, fear, content,
Through vistas drear, sublime:
Some sort of calm, these being not permanent,
Comes through with time.
Does it take so long to learn —
However strong the dread in you,
Or however lovely the things of your
concern—
That peace, though tempests of error may
break and burn.
At last sails quietly through?
11.
I never thought that I would be
Old as I am to-day,
Nor that the winsome past would seem
So very far away.
I never thought the urgent years
Of plans and painful care
Would spread their vague and barren length
To show so little fair.
When your so generous eyes survey
Sweet impulses defied,
Good friends, forgive my arrogance.
Forget my early pride.
Thankful am I that faith, at last
Grown gentle and benign.
Made hope of vast accomplishment
So easy to resign.
And T renounce old discontent
For this new comforting:
That from my patient destiny
I’ve learned one little thing.
VICTORIA.
FURNLEY MAURICR. MAURICE.


y?'
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
£nsure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in atock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE SHAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
t 2S i CONCORD west. n. s. wm.es
Victorian OlUce—“Chancery House,” 485 Itourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Acent*: Me»ar*. F.MJER, SMITH ft CO., 1,T1»., Adelaide. B.A.
Always “ First ” in Queensland Advertising.
The BRISBANE COURIER
HAS AGAIN PROVED ITS SUPERIORITY AS
QUEENSLAND’S LEADING ADVERTISING
MEDIUM.
In 1927 the "Courier” carried 9,070 columns more than its
morning contemporary. In 1928 the “Courier” increased its
lead by 386 columns, making a grand total of 9,456 columns
over its morning contemporary.
It’s simply because the “COURIER” is first in Queensland in
CIRCULATION, ADVERTISING AND INFLUENCE.
Rate Cards and specimen copies from ROBT. D. FISHER,
74 Pitt Strefct, Sydney. ’Phone 85007.
Published, bp the Brisbane Newspaper Co., “Courier ” Building, Queen
Street, Brisbane; also publishers of the “Queenslander ” and “Sports Referee
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town and
Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes 'of the people, arid each
issue is eagerly read by men, women and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modem lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright arid chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays. Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 223
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: ‘Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price 1 Id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
WILSON. 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone, MA3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
THE DAILY MAIL
BRISBANE
Is logically the first big daily to select in Queensland for any advertising
campaign. It gets results!
It is always bright and is progressive to a degree.
And its net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to
be greater than that of any other daily in Queensland. Its companion
journal is
THE SUNDAY MAIL
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine. These two journals
give a “cover” in Queensland that is second to none. For rates and
other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288*294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE,
Clyne House, 72 £itt Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
fiankkfflmm,
dtipd indiptm,
twiM mtipation
tala
fachan*
/sfee\ ; -v.
O -q
T •« iCJ
© J“r i
»»
vl'ste
PMd
Worth a
Guinea
a Box.
u
Contains everything that women should
know —from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
TUESDAY—Price 3d
<r
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
&
s
s»
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
“THE EXAMINER” 19 the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricul-
tural, Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” has been published in Launceston
for 86 years, and is still the family newspaper of
Northern Tasmania.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from:
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd., Mr. V. W. Margetts, Mr. W. G. Dougan,
73-75 Patterson Street, 122 Flinders Street, 701 Herald Building,
Launceston. Melbourne. 66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
TJ
*
r:** 0
5®
5®
9
f?
•’V*


The Onlij
FULL-SIZED CAR
in the lowest-priced field
Plymouth 4-Door Sodom*
IN sharp contrast with the few
other cars in its price group
the new Chrysler-built Plymouth
offers full - sized bodies, deep,
luxurious upholstery, with ample
room for all adult passengers.
The new Plymouth offers also
in beauty and original style, in
speed, in power, in quiet and
in smoothness—the quality you
could get heretofore only for far
more.
It gives you the utmost in safety,
because of internal - expanding
hydraulic 4-wheel brakes, posi-
tive in any weather.
Examine, point for point, the
features which place Plymouth
foremost in its field. Then drive
it and you will know why
scores of thousands to-day en-
thusiastically acclaim Plymouth
the greatest cash value in the
lowest-priced field.
c
s
H
R!
Y
R
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Larke, Neave Sr Carter Ltd William St., Sydney.
Vic.: Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Collins Street, Melbourne.
Qld.: Ward Motors Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
Sth. Aust.: O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Flinders St., Adelaide.
West. Aust.: William Attwood, 299-301 Murray St., Perth.
Tas.: Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
N.Z.: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington.
New Guinea: W. R. Carpenter & Co. Ltd., Rabaut.
w
