

AUSTRALIAN WIRE PRODUCTS
Made at the Works of
RYLANDS BROS. (AUS.) LTD., NEWCASTLE
MADE FROM
B.H. P.
AUSTRALIAN
STEEL
LIST OF PRODUCTS.
STEEL WIRE.—AII classes and grades for manufacture
ing purposes including Galvanised, Bright and
Coppered Spring, Mail, Welding, etc. “Waratah
BLACK AND GALVANISED FENCING WIRES - - “Waratah”
WIRE NETTING. —Rabbit and Assorted ------- “Waratah”
BARBED WIRES. —-Iowa” or “Waukegan” Pattern - “Waratah”
NA I L S - “Waratah”
CLOTHES AND GUY LINES - “Waratah”
STEEL FENCING POSTS.-—Star Pattern - - - B.H.P . “Waratah”
Brand
Brand
Brand
Brand
Brand
Brand
Brand
MADE FROM
B. H. P.
AUSTRALIAN
STEEL
FOR ALL CLASSES OF WIRE PRODUCTS
SPECIFY “WARATAH” BRAND
4
ORAUSTR ALi ANR
oute <sns &4
THE NEWCASTLE STEEL WORKS
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CU T - D
Head Office: 422 Little Collins St, Melbourne
LAST YEAR THE PRODUCTION of RAILS, SHAPES etc.
TOTALLED OVER 300,000 TONS.
The Bulletin
mz aknrfr ~ik&s *^cMouu. — Poq/l 3J
Vol 50.—N0. 2552.
Wednesday, January 9, 1929.
Price 6d.
Registered at the Cenetal Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


WRITE for the library cata-
” J-OGTJE AND LISTS on all snbiects,
wJ.jch will be rorwgrded on application, post
tree, to
PYMOCICS BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Learn
at HOME
THis BooK FREE to YOU!
SEND THE COUPON.
STOTT'S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney Bplletix.
My Name
My Address
ita
.
STAMMERING AND STUTTERING
CAN BE CURED— IN YOUR OWN HOME
Send TO-DAY for particulars of “Perfect Speech” and copies of letters from
those who have been cured. Philip O’Bryen Hoare, M.8.1.M.5c. (London) (The
Stammerers’ Friend), Specialist in Public Speaking and the Cure of Stammering
and Stuttering.
ADDRESS:
56 BRISBANE ARCADE, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
P.O. Bex 1142 P.
I
NE ♦ —those Embarrassing
V
OW an advanced type lubri-
eating system has njade proper
lubrication and squeakless, squawk-
less driving easy. The Alemite High
Pressure System for lubricating hard-
working, dust-exposed chassis bear-
ings. Used on over 15,000,000 cars
today.
So easy that there is no longer any
reason for neglecting lubrication. So
positive that the lubrication is al-
ways effective in preventing friction
and wear.
What Alemite Is—How It Works
The Alemite system is built for high
pressure lubrication. To force clean,
fresh lubricant entirely through the
bearings—to force old, worn-out lu-
bricant entirely out of the bearings.
This efficient high pressure lubrica-
tion works wonders with every car.
Squeaks
and
Squawks
from your car!
—and, too, you’ll avoid
80% of all repair bills
Renews the riding qualities and com-
fort of middle-aged cars so they seem
like new. And it eliminates the cause
of 80% of motor car repairs—if you
will but tend to it every 500 miles or so.
Your Car Can Be Alemite-
equipped at Small Cost
If your car is already equipped with
this money-saving system, use it
every 500 miles and you’ll cut the
cost of operating your car anywhere
from a half-penny to a penny half-
penny a mile.
If your car is not so equipped, the
installation of Alemite fittings can
be made quickly and at a surprising-
ly low cost. A fitting costing only a
few pennies will save a bearing
worth many pounds. The Bassick
Manufacturing Company, Division
of Stewart-Warner, Chicago, U. S. A.
The Alemite Fittings
Modem dust-proof Alemite and
Alemite-Zerk fittings for chassis
bearings. Lubricant is shot
through them under high pres-
sure to the heart of the bearing.
Old grease and grit thus forced
out —clean new lubricant sur-
rounds the entire bearing.
Alemite Compressors
To conform to fittings, com-
pressors come In two styles—
Alemite and Alemite-Zerk. The
Alemite Compressor forces lu-
bricant through bearing by
twisting handle —the Alemite-
Zerk “gun” by a simple thrust-
ing motion.
The Alemite-ed Bearing
Cut-open view of lubricated
bearing. Note how lubricant
under pressure forces way en-
tirely through bearing.
ALEMITM
High Pressure Lubrication
©T.B. M.Co. Res. U. 8. Pat. Off.
No. 833.
FOR SALE
“ Coonardoo ” Illustrations
The original drawings, by C, H, Percival, are
now for sale.
The Manager,
THE BULLETIN OFFICE, SYDNEY.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE Kills that Fly!
Although “Mustdie” is so
thoroughly destructive to
insect life, it can be used
with absolute safety, as
it is perfectly harmless to
man, beast, fowl and
canaries. Use the “Must-
die” Spreader, for it is
not only economical, but
Ike powder is distributed
MUSTDIE.
ttott roaonaua powder.
THE 6RBITI/15CCT OGTWMR.
SDF
fTies.
Flea:
Bugs
MoMofae*
SD
F
more effectively, and w<
want you to get the best
results out of every ounce
of this great insect
destroyer.
Sold everywhere, or
forward 1/- in stamps
to Box 1520 G.P.0.,
Sydney. il
The Red Page
Time, and the Novel
“Val was clever enough to know that all
artists, whether they aspired to be painters,
musicians, singers, or even writers, must
serve a long and expensive apprenticeship.”
“I wrote it and ‘Sir John Constantine’
with ease just because, after 20 years’ prac-
tice, I had learnt, for what it was worth, to
play on my instrument.”
“The author is now about fo take leave
of his hero, and to write the last lines of
a book which has been the fruit of two years
of labor.”
“This novel probably has imperfections;
I wrote it in three weeks.”
There is no need to point the moral fur-
ther than to say that the first three quota-
tions are from good and successful novelists,
and that the entry for the first Bulletin
Novel Competition to which the fourth was
attached had haste written all over it. That
entry was,” in fact, the work of a literary
jerry-builder, or perhaps of one who had
taken as gospel that fallacious and hoary
story, fostered by the disciples of “inspira-
tion,” that no work can be good work
unless it gushes spontaneously from the
pen. How it persists in the face of the
published MSS. of the world’s greatest
writers is an abiding mystery.
Of course, it is a folly. Good writing is
an art; and all art is the achievement
reached through careful selection and care-
ful presentation—the fruit, in short, of ex-
perience and application. The Bulletin
has heard of several writers who are in the
way of being true artists; they did not com-
pete in the first Novel Competition because
they did not think the time allowed was
quite enough for the building of a novel
that would give them personal satisfaction.
They waited for the second.
To meet the requirements of all who
might wish to do really good work, longer
time was allowed for this second competi-
tion. Just about a full year remains. A
good novel can be written in that time, and
The Bulletin looks forward confidently to
the pleasure of reading more than one entry
which, at least, will not advertise itself as
having been written in three weeks.
The prizes for the second competition are:
First £4OO
Second .. .. .. £250
Third £lOO
The Unpopular Truth
Nothing proves the truth of the proverb
about a prophet’s honor better than the
ambassadorial career and post-ambassa-
dorial life of Prince Lichnowsky, who, worn
out by the storm of abuse aroused in Ger-
many by his “Reminiscences,” died last Feb-
ruary. Without any reason, as far as he
could see, he was plucked in 1912 from his
country estates, where he had been in
retirement for eight years, and was sent
as German Ambassador to the Court of St.
James. From the time of his arrival until
the outbreak of the war he persistently
prophesied England’s participation in any
war threatening France, and warned his
country that John Bull’s strength would not
be on Germany’s side.
On the outbreak of war, which he had
made superhuman efforts to prevent, Lich-
nowsky saw the downfall of all his plans
and work for an Anglo-German rapproche-
ment, and he return/ed to • Germany a
broken man, to be greeted by a storm of
abuse and to be blamed for the catas-
trophe. He was even accused of having
deliberately misled the German Foreign
Office as to the feeling in England. Em-
bittered by this and by subsequent attacks
he retired to his country estates, where he
wrote his apologia in the form of articles,
one of which was his famous Memorandum.
He embodied these articles with the most
important of his London dispatches, and
published them in Leipzig last year under
the title, “Auf dem Wege zum Abgrund.”
A masterly translation by an Australian,
Professor Sefton Delmer, former English
Lecturer at the Berlin University, has just
been published by Constable, under the
title, Heading jor the Abyss. The trans-
lator, in copious footnotes, collation with
original documents and additional matter,
has made a translation which far exceeds
its original in completeness and in literary
finish, and is invaluable to the student
of the period.
One cannot but admire Lichnowsky.
Though he had been already knocked about
by public opinion, he had the courage to
criticise in his book the policy of Ger-
many’s Grand Old Man, Bismarck, and
attempted to show that it was mainly the. fatal
system of groups and alliances inaugurated by
Bismarck that led to the World War, and that the
Great Powers were thereby drawn into conflicts
which were quite alien to their real interests.
But even Bismarck, he says A would not
have cut entirely the last thread tying St.
Petersburg to Berlin. This last mistake he
left to his successors, who went from bad
to worse, and who
looked upon the Austro-Magyar and Ottoman
Empires, the two political invalids of Europe, as
the: mainstays of their system. Not content with
this they let no opportunity pass of scaring Russia
and of bullying England and France, and occasion-
ally Japan and the United States into the bargain
if they got a chance. We began by driving Russia
into the arms of France, and then completed the
business by driving her into the arms of England.
He places most of the blame on Herr von
Holstein, whom he considers “a national
misfortune and the real begetter of the
World War,” and this is borne out by
astounding revelations made in 1926 that
Holstein had used his position as Foreign
Minister to get information which enabled
him to “speculate” on the Stock Exchange
without risk, and had even shaped his
foreign policy for his own private ends.
That such a man could have almost un-
limited power in foreign affairs, and in the
choice of war and peace, is a damning
indictment of the pre-war German political
system.
As a defence of England’s war-innocence
the book is conclusive. It proves without
doubt that England did not want a war,
and that
anyone who actually saw the collapse of London’s
business life just before the actual outbreak of the
war and witnessed the suspension of the Banking Act,
the proclamation of the moratorium and the closing
of the Stock Exchange, could no longer be sceptical
as to the sincerity of England’s desire to maintain
peace in Europe.
He pays a great tribute to Sir Edward Grey,
from whom, he says,
we could have got almost anything we desired. In
every direction he was ready to meet us. There
was only one point on which he could not budge.
When we attacked France, and then proceeded to
clinch this action by violating the neutrality of
Belgium, it became impossible for him to keep Eng-
land out of the war.
He says that. England was drawn into the
war against its will by its policy of the
“balance of power,” and that only in so far
as having such a policy, which he admits
is a necessity at present, can England be
blamed at all.
It is these systems of policies and alliances
which he arraigns with the politicians lor
the war-guilt. In a letter written to the
publishers of the translation just before his
death he says:—
The policy of alliances, supported by the insane
race for armaments, could not fail to lead to war.
One may hope that the nations will from this learn
a lesson for the future. For the present it must be
confessed that there are but faint signs that they
have begun to do so.
Looking round the world to-day we are
compelled to agree with this pessimistic
judgment of a man who paid the penalty of
trying to tell the truth to his country,
which only now .is beginning to realise that
he was not as wrong as it thought.
R. S. PANTON.
An Australian Story Book
The second attempt within a month or
so to resurrect the Australian short-story
writer from the perdition of the fleeting
newspaper file has been made by Nettie
Palmer. In An Australian Story Book
(Angus and Robertson) Mrs. Palmer has
collected 23, all but two or three originally
printed in The Bulletin.
The short story is a revealing form of
Art. The English short story as a rule
concerns a tall, strong, inarticulate man
aged 30 and named Philip. He has athletic
legs, and is dressed in a sports suit two sizes
too large for him and boots two sizes too
large for an elephant, and he breaks one of
the athletic legs leaping over a brook on
a manorial estate where he has no business.
Attracted by his .low moans for help the
Lady Adrenalin, assisted by her elderly
maiden aunt, carries him home, and, after
dressing the leg for a month, marries him—
having in the meantime learnt accidentally
of his aristocratic descent. The reason why
this form is popular in England is that
no Englishman worthy of the name would
accept a broken limb as an excuse for
speaking to a person to whom he has not
been introduced.
The French short story removes the
front wall from an apartment block, pre-
ferably in broad day. The husband of
flat A is discovered in a laughable situa-
tion with the wife of flat C, the husband
of flat C being equally pleasantly engaged
with the wife of flat A. In flat B a war
profiteer walks moodily to and fro awaiting
the advent of his mistress, who is agree-
ably occupied with the concierge, a battle-
scarred veteran of Verdun, The Parisian
telephone system is for once in perfect
order and bubbling with Gallic wit. The
reason the French like this form is that
France is the most serious-minded, efficient
(except for its telephone service), hard-
working and moral country in Europe.
The American short story deals with a
New York lift-girl who is really the daugh-
ter of a motor manufacturer and has run
away from home to avoid having to marry
a millionaire. She marries the caretaker,
usually named Roosevelt Van Hoot, and
her father is deterred from annulling the
match when he learns that the caretaker
has invented an absolutely unscratchable
motor paint, and is also of Dutch descent.
The reason why Americans like this form
(Continued on page 5.)


§t Truth in Advertisingthe guiding principle of Sydney's Mammoth Store *
Anthony Horderns
The "House of Economy” for
Saddles and Reliable Guns
AT “FAMOUS LOW PRICES”
The Wieneke Pattern Stock Saddle, kip
seat and flaps, capped knee pads, Vic-
toria facings, extra long skeleton flaps,
specially selected tree, narrow waist,
neatly finished. Unmounted.
Price £9 and £lO/10/-
Fittings 28/6 extra
a#
At 80/- ea.
Tod Sloan Exercise Saddle, Hogskin
seat, London color, plated tree, 6,
and 7 lb., unmounted (YX 510), 80/-
Tod Sloan Exercise Saddle, All-over
grey suede or kip, plated tree . . 80/-
At 28,6 ea.
Child’s Riding Pad, excellent for
children learning to ride, 28/6
Fittings, 10/6 extra.
Dept.—Ground Floor. Free Delivery in
City and Suburbs only.
“The Kemp 5 ’ Pattern Park Saddle, built
on best steel-plated tree, all-over kip,
leather points to panel, full skirt, Vic-
toria facing £6/10/-, £8
Ditto, Hogskin seat £B/5/-
Fittings same as YX 57, 28/6 extra.
-.m
“The Queensland” Park Saddle, built
on best steel-plated tree, with Hogskin
seat, serpentine Hogskin knee-pads.
Victoria leather facing (YX 5 7),
£6/5/-, £B, £B/5/-
Guns Unillustrated.
Stevens’ Single-Barrelled Gun, 12 -Gauge,
16-Gauge and 20-Gauge, top lever, auto-
matic ejector, full pistol grip stock, 30in.
barrel. Weight 61b. (YT 39) 50/-
I. Hollis & Sons’ .410 Bore Double-
Barrelled Collector Gun, top lever, neatly
finished £9/10/-
Webley-Scott’s D.8.8.L. Hammerless Gun,
30in. special Steel Barrels, chambered 2fin,,
flat engine-turned raised rib, . box lock
action, top lever, treble bite, cross bolt,
selected walnut half-pistol hand stock, neat
scroll and border engraving, nitro proved,
made expressly to suit Australia and New
Zealand, weight about 7|lb. 12-gauge.
(YT 11 7) £2O
YT 104
12-Gauge Stevens’ D.B. Hammerless Gun,
30in. barrels, blued. High-pressure com-
pressed steel, tested with nitro powder,
matted rib. Right barrel modified, left
barrel full choked. Chambered for 2 fin.
cartridges. Top lever and bolt in one piece,
coil springs. Large powerful extractors,
automatic safety. Selected black walnut
stock, finely checkered, full pistol grip-
capped, rubber butt plate, walnut fore-end.
Weight about 7flb. (YT 104) . . £5/17/6
YT G 3
Chas Bower man's 12-Gauge D.8.8.L.
Superior Back Work Action Top Lever
Hammer Gun, double bolt, steel rebound-
ing locks, steel barrels, left choke, snap fore-
end fastener, thread engraved and well
finished. Nitro proved (YT 63). As
above, with Doll’s Head Extension, £7/10/-
As above, with Cross Bolt £B/10/-
YT 98 _
Wm. Cashmore 12-Gauge D.8.8.L. Top
Lever Gun. Cross bolt action, steel barrels,
left choke, engine-turned rib, well figured
walnut stock, horn, heel plate, Deeley and
Edge fore-end well finished, neatly en-
graved. Specially proved for nitro powders.
(YT 98) £ll/11/-
126
YT
Chas. Boswell’s 12-Gauge D.8.8.L. Special
Hammerless Pigeon Gun, Anson & Deeley
action, side clips, 30in. steel barrels, both
full choke bored, chambered for 2 fin.
cartridges, high flat file-cut rib, Greener
cross bolt, proved for nitro powders, wal-
nut stock. (YT 126) £33
As above, with Ejector £3B
Dept.—Ground Floor. Free Delivery in City and
Suburbs only.
Anthony Horderns’ Deposit Purchase System enables you to secure your needs at your own convenience.
Simply leave a small deposit on selection of your requirements, and pay the balance in convenient instalments.
Goods are'delivered when final payment has been made. The cash price only is charged. No interest.
OPEN UNTIL 9 P.M. EVERY FRIDAY
Anthony Horderns*
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.


Enjoy i r
ESSEX**
Performance
&
*
1
-**>■/>' >- *- ~ 'V- <c 't ■
:r^-
- . v s
h,
~ •V, >x^
V*J«
tv
VM
\
\
n
s&.
a
iiiiii!in
It is impressive to know that point for point the Essex
Super-Six equals or excels any considerably higher
priced car in the entire market. In fact many motorists
testify to the fact that after considering several much
more expensive cars they were delightfully surprised
to find every quality matched or bettered by Essex.
Essex saving, however, does not end with the purchase
price. In operating economy, repair-free reliability
and long-lasting service it continues to store up extra
margins that account for its brilliant reputation and
record as the world’s greatest value and largest-
selling six.
Ride in an Essex—drive it yourself if you so desire—
and you will readily appreciate the outstanding
qualities of which all Essex owners are so proud.
ESSEX.
Tourer, Australian Body . . . . . .
Roadster ~ ~
Coach ~ „ . . . . . .
Coach, Imported Body
Coupe „ ~ (Rumble Seat)
Sedan, Australian Body
Sedan, Imported Body
270
330
350 f
365
345
370 J
Five Ballooa
Tyres
Standard
Equipment.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
DISTRIBUTORS:
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
MOTORS, LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS, LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CQ., LTD.,
Hobart ancf Launceston.
DEALERS EVER!WHERE—BXJY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.
ESSEXWaT/*


Pure Wool Tweed
SPORTS SUITS
Priced
from
84/-
Men’s Sports Suits ready-made from good quality pure wool Tweeds.
Well cut and finished; comfortable fitting. Fawn and drab, also
fancy grey designs. Coat with band and pleated back; four
patch pockets. Trousers have side straps, belt loops, side and hip
pockets, cut bottoms. An ideal holiday suit. Prices, 84/-, 100/-, 110/-
The Lower Ground Floor
A MAN’S GIFT BAZAAR
All one floor for Man’s convenience. There you’ll find hosts of gifts
—the kind he would select himself, useful things to fill the most
usual masculine needs, with extraordinary beauty and distinction.
And, too, in Man’s domain are gifts for womenfolk!
DAVID JONES’
Castlereagh, Market & Elizabeth Streets
Branch Men’s Shop, Opposite G.P.O.
is that, as everyody knows, they are the
most democratic people on God’s earth.
Even the Malay has an accepted form.
The Malay novel running to roughly
1,500,000 words, the Malay short story
seldom exceeds a bare 80,000, and concerns
a hero invariably named Panji, who is born
of the sea foam. After many remarkable
adventures he marries the Princess Chandra
Kirana, who is the daughter of a union
between a waterspout and a snake. The rea-
son why the Malays prefer this form is that,
being brought up in the one room from
childhood with the rest of the household,
they are conversant with the facts of life
approximately from the age of four.
The feature that stands out from Mrs.
Palmer’s Collection is that these 23 Aus-
tralian tales do not conform to any recognis-
able type. Heroes are conspicuous by their
absence, and if there are any villains they
are inanimate scoundrels, like the drought,
the heat, the dust or white ants. There
is a blessed tendency among all these
writers not to don the black cap and sit in
judgment Oil their pawns. Even in an
admirable study of a German settler, where
one might reasonably expect some uncon-
scious hang-over of a wartime psychosis
from which few of us were immune, there
Is the same Olympian restraint. This in-
clination to record and not to express
opinions seems to me all to the good. It
is the beginnings of all art and probably
the beginning, the middle and the end of
the short-story art. It leads to the exchange
of the spotlight of melodrama for the more
even light of life. The general perspective
is considerably improved, and variety fol-
lows as a natural course.
The last-named quality is outstanding in
Mrs. Palmer’s 23. It ranges from the
stained-glass beauty of Zora Cross’s pic-
ture of convent life, “Long, long ago,” to
the simple domesticity of Lawson’s “Buggy
at Lahey’s Creek”; and from the urban
complexity of “Sun,” by Myra Morris, to
the crude biological realism of “The Coo-
boo,” by Katharine Prichard. As for the
absolute merits of the collection, Mrs.
Palmer has avoided the distressing prac-
tice of labelling as “the best” what can
only be an essay in individual taste.
M. G. S.
Flying the Arctic
It is not altogether an instance support-
ing the “prophet in his country” truism that
one of Australia’s greatest living men,
George Hubert Wilkins, is more fully appre-
ciated out of his own land than in it. He
and his deeds are now so remote that it
is impossible to share personally in them.
A cable such as that of December 21 an-
nouncing a magnificent human feat and a
geographical discovery of the first magni-
tude may stir a select few, but to the
many the news value is about equal to
that of an account of an earth tremor in
Peru. There is a Test match; an alleged
attempt to bribe a politician; the death of
some nonentity whom we all know. These
GEORGE HUBERT
WILKINS.
things are news;
we share in
them; they are
an intimate part
of our existence.
But a superb
achievement in
the Arctic or
Antarctic cannot
be brought in
from its remote-
ness even by the
fact that the man
who has achieved
was born at Mt.
Bryan East,,
South Australia,
October 31, 1888.
There is no
actual contact;
no spectacle.
There is nothing
but an occasional
cable, and it isn’t
easy to get excited over a cable, par-
ticularly when it records something that
we have come to expect. Even the inti-
mateness of such a book as Flying the
Arctic, by Captain George H. Wilkins (Put-
nam), does not wholly bridge the gap,
though perhaps it helps us as much as we
deserve to be helped.
It is a frank and very well written account
of the Detroit Arctic Expedition flights of
1926, and, because it is sincere, a splendid
autobiography of the man Wilkins. He
uses the first personal singular as the only
possible medium for telling such a story,
but he speaks of Wilkins scarcely at all.
It is only from his actions and occasional
reactions that Wilkins—game, determined,
brainy, friendly and persistent as a bulldog
—manages to emerge. His revulsion over
the U.S.A. publicity campaigning that pre-
ceded the Detroit-fathered flight is typically
Australian. “All this preliminary bunk had
long since got on my nerves,” he says, and
there is a wealth of Australian character
in the remark. In one paragraph, which,
incidentally, presents another good picture
of him, he touches what is probably the
only fundamental difference between the
characters of two peoples who should have
no differences:
I would not have believed it possible that I could
withstand the humiliation of accepting a luncheon
in my honor and there and then plead for money.
The greatest hardship I have ever suffered, and the
most trying ordeal ever undertaken, was to address
from time to time an audience of harassed business
men on a subject in which they had not the
slightest interest nor understanding, and then stand
while some raucous-voiced, high-pressure salesman
sold my photograph or my autograph for a hundred,
fifty, twenty, five dollars, fifty cents, or what have
you? I still shudder when I think of it. No one
except myself seemed to mind it, and even those
who were gypped a hundred dollars for my signature
scribbled on a photograph laughed it off.
It was the manner, not the spirit, of this
helpfulness that was strange to him. Thus,
though he does not intend it. is the char-
acter of Wilkins, Australian, developed and
revealed. It becomes clearer as we go
along—in his frank opinion of sundiy of
the experts loaded on to him by Detroit;
his unstinting praise of others; his carrying
on with a broken arm only because Arctic
weather waits for none:
It seemed that the small bone of my forearm was
broken in two places. But as I could not afford to
let that delay us, I mentioned it to no one, bandaged
it the best I could and carried on with the work.
It takes one who has had a broken arm
to appreciate what that must have been
like round about zero. On another in-
teresting occasion, when he thought the
noise of the engine might have interfered
with the accuracy of his sounding of the
ocean beneath the ice waste on which he
and his companion Eilson had landed, he
ordered Eilson to stop the engine.
Long after we were back in civilisation [he adds]
Eilson grinningly told me what flashed through his
mind at the time I told him to stop the engine. It
was: “Go ahead and take the sounding; if we stop
the engine we will never get it started again and
nobody but God and you and me will ever know
what the sounding is.”
And the next paragraph to that is:
One of our regrets at- the time was the fact that
clouds covered the sky and we could not get a
sight of the sun for accurate position.
All Scandinavia and all Australia seem to
leap up miraculously before the eye in
those simple paragraphs.
Perhaps the whole difference between
Wilkins and others over whom our dailies
are wont to wax hysterical is that he makes
science the basis of all his endeavor. He
is a scientist first, an explorer next and an
adventurer afterwards. Most of those we
adore are adventurers first, and only. Per-
haps that is why we like them so person-
ally; for adventure, sans everything, is
spectacular. But the spectacular fades;
solidity lasts for ever. And to-morrow will
probably call Wilkins one of our few great
—for all our ignoring of him.
A Satchel of Books.
Landru, by F. A. Mackenzie (Bles). The
story of the bearded Frenchman who duped
hundreds of women, married many of them,
murdered ten, remained cool throughout a
gruelling trial, and went to the guillotine pro-
testing innocence and cracking quiet jokes:
An interesting addition to the Famous Trials
series, briskly told from the police-court
records.
Book of Silent , Friends, by Richard
King (Bodley Head). First published in
1919, and now added to the Bodley Head
“Week End” series, this is another col-
lection of tJ,ie brief causeries Which, appear-
ing originally as introductions to book re-
views, won for the author a great following
during and just after the war. Reading them
is like listening to good conversation; the
language is simple, the philosophy cheerful,
the whole book sincere and human.
The Earlier Life and Letters of Walter
H. Page, by Burton J. Henrick (Heine-
mann). The third volume of the famous
American journalist-ambassador’s biography.
The part he played as American Minister
to Britain during the war and the
circumstances that led up to that fortunate
appointment absorbed most of the space in
the two earlier volumes; the latest covers
the earlier phases of his career, dating from
the reconstruction of' the South after the
Civil War —Page was a North Carolinan —
and deals with his boyhood and university
and journalistic life. In it is shown develop-
ing the feeling of friendliness for Britain and
things British which began when he was a
child in the shattered South, and was warmed
by Britain’s open banking of America in the
quarrel with Spain to the sympathy and
understanding that bore good fruit in the
troubled days of his term as Ambassador in
London from 1913 to 1918.
The Etched Work of Sydney Long, A.R.E.
(Attic Press. Sydney). With this hand-
some, beautifully-printed volume, a new
band of Australian art publishers is impres-
sively introduced. The book opens with an
original Long etching of a fluffy young kooka-
burra looking down interestedly on a gigantic
and no doubt succulent old grasshopper, a
typical example of the artist’s lighter work.
Follows a fine photo of Long, a word sketch
of him by the editor (Dorothy Ellsmore
Paul), an article by himself on etching, and
then reproductions of 27 of his choicest
pieces. The blocks are well done, and so
are the printing and hireling, and the book
as a whole is that next4best thing, a good
substitute for the origiilal work, much of
which is unavailable in any other form, in-
cluding the very lovely “Pan” and many of
those wedded trees that are Sydney Long at
his whimsical best.
Australian Children's Books. To hand from
Dymock’s two tip-top books for young Aus-
tralians—Bernard Croniji’s “The Treasure
of the Tropics,” and Lilian Turner’s “Ann
Chooses Glory,” both published by Ward
Lock. All who read the early chapters of
The Bulletin’s present serial, “Bracken,”
must have appreciated Bernard Cronin’s in-
sight into boyhood. In those early pages of
Jasper’s life there was pretty definite pi oof
that the author could write a rattling good
boy’s book if lie had a mind for it. That
book, or something very much like it, is
“The Treasure of the Tropics.” It is not
suggested that it is a classic. Nothing of the
kind. But it is crammed with impossible
and therefore fascinating adventures and
racing with excitement. It has little origi-
nality—in it are all . the old props—but it is
exactly the sort of book that doubles the con-
sumption of electricity or kerosene in the
boy’s room. The same, except that the story,
is quieter, can be said of “Ann Chooses
Glory.” A motherly little person, Ann;
and her story a wholesome and entertaining
narrative for young Australian girls.
Answers to Correspondents.
notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Same and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
T.C.D.: You assume that readers remem-
ber what it’s all about, and they don’t....
M.E.C.K.: It’s not a bad yarn, and it’s quite well
told, but . ...D.C.: Beaten by lack of room.
.... Purist: He is the husband of Ethel Turner and
the father of Jean Curlewis, both novelists, and has
written books himself. Publications: “The Mirror of
Justice,” “Lectures on Pleading,” “Lectures on
Procedure” and “Prohibition Law and Practice,”
the last with D. S. Edwards... .S.M.: A. G. (“Smiler”)
Hales was on the Sydney Referee and (with Jack
Drayton) ran the Mining Review at Coolgardie.
Australia has never had a racier writer on boxing.
He was a carpenter before he was a writer....
D.P.: No space there for anything not of general
Australian interest.... Fitzwilliam: Same to you.
....Jim G.: That fight’s over... .H.J.W.: “Oracles”
unsuitable... .11. M.: The topic should be new and
Australian... .C.M.: Basket. ...R.H.: Adds nothing.
. ...Murkah: It isn’t a free fight... .L.G.: A second
reading beat it... .M.McE.: Peace declared there.
. ...H.S.: Try it on the society.... R.M.: Off the
track... .C.D.: No place for “The Most Envied
Man”... .Carel: Don’t like ’em... .R.L.T.: Pardon
delay; it had a chance for a while. .. .H. 8.: Two
lines:—
Christmas comes but once a year;
But this will last for ever, dear.
We know the feeling; we were given a tie, too.
....Meunell (or something like that): Pretty bad.
....H.H.8.; “Unwitting you who wot not that
this solar spread we but one sleep-killed hour convert,
decrees.” Is it the brandy sauce?... .L.S.: Cat’s-
meat verse. . . .T.E.J.J.: —
When I woke from a dream aboard you in the
stream,
Deeply laden with case oil.
You must have felt rather bilious.... Roq: Giant
razor is being honed for next writer of an ode to
the New Year... .N.W.; Frail little fancies... .5.11.;
As intejesting as a reducing diet.... J.J.I. The
delicate thing died in the w.p.b Tex: After
reading your verse we repeat your borrowed line,
“O Death, where is thy sting?”... .Bluegum Joe:
We should say that as a poet you call for ringbark-
ing L.E.: Your best effort to date. Try again.
.... Jack H.; Suggest you read it aloud, somewhere
in a “hpllow vault”.... R.J.: Ashes posted....
J.P.McK.Not quite... .8.L.D.: Couldn't use in
present fo>m... .T.F.; There may be “much still to
be said,” but it’s had all the space we can spare.
. ...1.L.: Like the lady, but can’t place her at
present... .A.H.F.: No inducement.... G. WAV.:
Agree as to tactful wife, but nothing else... .C.C.:
Your bush sirens sang in A flat. ... J.E.P.: “More
wimmin'” —not for us, thanks... .J.W.P.: “He
choked tuck a curse, as his burning eyes moistened
in their sockets.” Uncommon case. .. .G.H.W.:
Can’t cabry the baby F.E.S.: Uncle’s reminis-
cences lied. ... J.G.F.: Six months without the
option for* the man who, instead of “hunger,” writes
“the stridfent demands of the inner economy”....
E.M.P.T.: Given a “y” your initials describe it....
Asternckese: What is it —a song or a paragraph ?
.... G.M.: Epic beginning “If I did what I was
told and thought what I was taught in my spare
time” ruined the Religious Editor’s New Year resolu-
tion to give up swearing... .H.J.T.: “Ballad of
Blighted Hopes’’ cursed and hearsed... .S.K.: Don’t
thank us for “returning same” —it’s a pleasure....
H.H.8.; One stanza:—
Of endless time your life and mine
Are as hoof-beat of steed,
Or as the grunt of bloated swine
, As through the mire they feed.
Or as the crunch of goats divine, as jam-tins quench
their greed ?.... D.W.: No, they are not “worth any-
thing from a financial standpoint”... .D.8.0’C.:
Regret your sad experience almost as much as your
verse.... Orsen Gig: Space beats you. .. . A.S.L.:
No use for scattered remarks re Pan. . . .D.H.E.:
John Masefield’s little fallacies about us are not
worth contradicting. To err is still human, especi-
ally among novelists... .R.C.: If you read Robert
Lynd’s essay on that sort of thing you won’t take
it so solemnly any more Shep: You’re another
outed by space... .C.D.: Express it in a par., and for
the Lord’s sake leave some space between lines....
E.R.: Said all we wanted to say when the play was
produced.... E.D.: The battle’s over... .S.T.S.: The
word “vamp,” as used by Thomas Hardy, denotes
“the piece of leather forming the upper front part
of a boot or shoe”.... L.C.: “Coonardoo” is to be
published in book form by Jonathan Cape, probably
in the English autumn.... 0. Hig.: Pop. of Chile
(1927), 4,000,000 ; navy consists of a 1913 Dread-
nought, five large destroyers and six building, and
half a dozen submarines, besides old coast-defence
ships: air force started with 14 seaplanes and 80
aeroplanes, and is being added to; army is based
on national service, strength of the active army
being about 16,000 A M.C.: Merely an exten-
sion of an oft-told tale... . W.H.8.: Sorry, can’t use.
....W.H.: Town-planning Institute, Maxwell House,
11 Arundel-street, London, W. 0.2; the secretary
is A. R. Potter C.R.F.: C. H. stands for Com-
panion of Honor; he was admitted to that com-
pany on May 9, 1927.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H.E.P.: No enthusiasm here about lady with
flamingo legs... .Iv.W.: “Drunk’s Journey” ended in
basket N.S.: Your gardener is nothing like one.
. ...8.R.; Crowd at shop counter all out of focus.
. ...F.H.: Enraged creditor will have time to cool
down on the trip home. .. .R.A.: To hand, drawing
of skeleton in dress-suit, but where’s the gag?....
J.P.8.: The usherette is gawky, and the gallant an
inky blotch.... V.W.: Come again when you've
learned something about drawing hands. .. .F.D.:
Dead.... L.S.C.: Pointless joke ; rigid figures....
G.H.: Too many “plurrys”.... O. J.: Among the
rejects.. . .G.S.D.: You belong to that numerous class
of artists who believe that bent legs are neces-
sarily funny.


m
%
:
1
|OgP
.
mm
lIP
liiiiit
If
Hi
M
- :
iH
•
is®
> -v^; ; '' /:
•;' . ; "
■ < * */ * l ’
.
,t '
IP
'
«
m -
! - .
gr
V &;
■ v sV* M • m
■
I
% ■ », W
f
Ir - \
. .
• ■ •• • - • ... -
■ . • ' . r -


The Bulletin
Vol. 50.—N0. 2552.
January 9,1929.
SCENE I.
SCENE II.
SCENE III.
TRAGEDY IN ONE ACT.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspapei
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
Sli George Street, Sydney.
Victoria: llh-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 2)9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Sou,th Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to ant address in Australasia,
weekly: 1Z months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: 1/oz. to 10oz., lid.:
each additional ioz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possess-ions and U.S.A.: 4oz , or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..3
THE FRONT PAGE 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
1929—and Afterwards .. 8
Should the Country Party Go ? .. 8
Is Cricket Becoming a Curse ? . 8
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 9
POLITICS (with caricatures) . . .. ~ 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) . . 11, 12
PERSONAL .. .. 14
A Victim of Arbitration
—a Cartoon by Scorfield .. . . .. . . 15
POVERTY POINT ID
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..17
BOUOICAULT’S GOOD-BYE 17
“WILD CAT’’ COLUMNS 18, 20
Dalgety’s 18
Rosella Preserving .. 18
W. E. Smith’s .. 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 23, 25
FREE SERVICE DEPARTMENT 26
Prizes for Farmers 28
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 29
SMOKE-OH 32
“Bracken” 34, 57, 58
PEN AND PICTURE 37
THE NEW “TALKIES” 37
Sporting (illustrated) ..39, 41, 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 44
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 46
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 49
COMPLETE STORIES—
“The Call of Judah”
By Harold Mercer .. .. .. .. 51
“Palings”
By E. R. Eccles .. .. .. .. . . 53
“John Bandon’s Lcvvc”
By James Devaney .. . . .. . . 55
VERSE 53, 55,'58
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 9, 1929.
1929—AND AFTERWARDS.
Australia had two golden epochs:, its annual
gold production passed the ten-million mark
between 1852 and 1860 inclusive and from
1898 to 1911 inclusive. Since then the
slump has been so alarming that the output
for 1927 was only £2,159,073, or about half
that of the previous worst year since 1851.
Measured by the value of production, tin
was at its best as far back as 1907; zinc
in 1912; copper in 1917 (the return for 1926
was the poorest recorded during 30 years);
and silver-lead in 1918.
The biggest area under crop was in 1915-
16; the biggest wheat crop was harvested
in the same year, and the second biggest
in 1924-25. It was as far back as 1891 that
the Commonwealth put up its best record
for sheep. There have been many varia-
tions since then, but even the substantial
recovery of 1925 and 1926 didn’t quite
restore the old figure. The stock of pigs
was at its largest in 1917; that of horses in
1918; and that of cattle in 1921. It was
in 1921-22 that the greatest number of
people were employed on the land, com-
bining agricultural, pastoral, dairying and
miscellaneous soil-workers in one whole, but
the largest number of male workers was
recorded in 1924-25. Since then there has
been a decline of males and a very great
decline of females.
The population to be supported has grown
by more than 50 per cent, since the year
when Australia’s second and biggest gold
boom attained its climax. The purely peace
debts of the States have multiplied by more
than three in the same 25 years, while the
interest bill has multiplied by about 44.
State enterprises which yielded a profit
some eight years ago no longer do so be-
cause the loans fell due and, no provision
having been made for repayment, had to
be renewed at the lender’s price; also be-
cause of increased wages, shortened hours,
and go-slowism.
But, happily, Australians are not wholly
agricultural. They are not nearly so much
of a manufacturing people as they should
be, or as they might be but for the craze
to “regulate” industry and smother it with
“awards,” but they are sufficiently good in
the “secondary” line to mitigate an other-
wise gloomy situation. Between 1911 and
1926 the number of persons employed in
the four great raw-material occupations,
pastoral, agricultural, dairying and mining,
diminished by 12,048 according to official
estimates. The number employed in manu-
factures increased by 139,210 in the same
time.
In the latest year for which figures are
available, factory-owners paid out £90.575,166
in wages, at the rate of nearly £202 per
employee, male and female, young and old,
skilled and unskilled. The pay had more
than doubled since 1911. In addition they
paid £246,367,865 for fuel and raw materials,
almost wholly to Australian “primary” pro-
ducers. What the “primary” producers
would have done without this support the
Lord only knows.
Australia is a misgoverned land with dis-
orderly finances. The overwhelming need
is to make exports cover imports and also
all overseas bills for interest and sinking
fund. As the spending of loan money to
promote, in a clumsy fashion, the raw-
material trades absolutely fails to do the
necessary deed by increase of exports, the
alternative is a drastic reduction of im-
ports. That could be most surely effected
by an extensive prohibition of dispensable
foreign <toods, after the manner of the cane-
sugar prohibition. Then the aggregate manu-
facturer might be•asked to get busy and
fill the void so far as it was necessary that
it should be filled. He seems the only
resourceful person to call upon.
DECENTRALISATION SHAMS.
N. S. Wales is to have a Decentralisation
Bill as soon as convenient. The particulars
haven’t been fully before Cabinet, but
individual Ministers have considered them,
and the prospects are said to be bright,
even dazzling. As the S, M. Herald put
the case (and no one has yet seen the
S. M. Herald under the influence of liquor):
“Ministers declare that this policy will be
of great benefit to rural areas, and will tend
to prevent the flow of population from coun-
try centres to the city. Indeed, it is con-
fidently asserted that this policy will, to a
degree, solve the problem of making country
life more attractive, and thus drawing popu-
lation from the cities.”
The scheme is, vaguely, “to extend the
functions of local, bodies” and thus “remove
unnecessary central control.” It is pro-
posed to create district councils, which will
be elected by shire and municipal councils,
and the district councils will appoint com-
mittees to deal with health, land settle-
ment, education and public works, “and to
perform other functions.” In other words,
the small councils, by an upward and con-
centrating movement, are to elect the big
district council, and the latter, by a down-
ward or dissolving movement, is to create
the small dependent committees.
The district councils are to be classified,
and the amount of aid they receive from
the Treasury at Sydney—for they are still
to be beggars at the gate_ of greatness—will
depend on the classification. They are to
be empowered to carry out public works,
except the larger irrigation works and rail-
ways. Yet, if a district council can’t build
a few miles of line to give its people access
to some harbor which the central authority
keeps under a boycott, its prospective use-
fulness will be limited. “It will be the duty
of the district councils in each year to pre-
pare a list of national works in the order
in which they are required, and to submit
this list to the Government.” The pros-
pective usefulness of the district councils at
independent and untrammelled construction
work of any sort thus seems really nil.
Decentralisation is a favorite topic, and
something might really be done but for one
obstacle. The central authority in the un-
wieldy States is willing, and even anxious,
to hand over a lot of its powers so long
as it doesn’t part with any of them. It
believes in a large independence for local
bodies provided this can be taken from
them at any moment, and further provided
that while it lasts the local bodies depend
on the old central boss for money grants,
and have ( to submit their proposals to be
accepted, rejected or neglected as the case
may be. It was in this same spirit that the
luckless Czar granted his people a (Con-
stitution, the reservations being that he
could alter or suspend it at any moment,
and reserve any subjects he pleased from
the scope of the Duma’s consideration, and
be the old autocrat when the Duma was
in recess, he providing heaps of recess.
Our Constitution begins with a Federal
Parliament quite powerless to subdivide
cumbersome States and create new capitals
to be new centres of population except by
the consent of the State Legislatures; and
State Legislatures emphatically refuse that
consent lest decentralisation should diminish
their big-metropolitan dignity. Beneath the
second of these boss institutions is to be a
drove of new superior local governments
with strictly limited powers, and no right
to use them except with the consent of
Head Office in the State capital; and further
down, in the cellar, a welter of inferior
local governments of the old type which
never possessed much of anything and which
have parted with, most of it in the pro-
cess of reconstruction. It would be better
to have a simple three-storey political edi-
fice: (1) a Commonwealth with authority to
subdivide States within reasonable limits;
(2) States of manageable size with a few par-
tially self-governing Territories where popu-
lation is scarce; (3) an unpretentious tier
of local administrations below the State
administrations. Then population might
possibly drift- back from the huge existing
cities to be nearer to the rising new capi-
tals and the opportunities thereof, and thus
diffusion would set in. But nobody is likely
to be interested in a district council which
can’t even make a railway siding for itself.
SHOULD THE COUNTRY PARTY GO?
Since the Country party became a factor
in Commonwealth politics it has gained
substantially at the expense of the
older parties, with one of which it is now
allied. The N.S.W. Senate seat of which
it has been denrived by popular vote was
the first it has lost in that way to the
Labor party at. four general elections—the
first in either House. And the loss was
balanced by the gain of a Labor Senate
seat in Westralia, while the stopgap Senator
appointed by the Labor-controlled Queens-
land Parliament when Tom Givens died has
been ejected in favor of a Countiy-party
man. The party was also compensated in
the House of Reps, for Cook’s failure to
nominate in Indi (Vic.), one of its strong-
holds; it gained Wakefield (S.A.), and
McWilliams, its first leader, recaptured
Franklin (Tas.).
In State politics also the party has had
many gains and few losses. In N. S. Wales,
Victoria, South Aus. and Westralia it has
made headway in spite of family quarrels.
One of these disagreements cost the Westralian
group the Greenough seat in 1924 —its
solitary loss to Labor in 14 years. (The
methods by which Labor retained Green-
ough in 1927 have just been reported on
by a Parliamentary select committee; they
consisted of rushing a mob of Perth laborers
into the electorate just in time to transfer
their votes, and keeping the electoral office
open till for their convenience.)
In Queensland, too, the party was going
along very well until it surrendered to the
cry of city editors for “united action against
the common enemy”; in other words, a
hard-and-fast, city-directed coalition against
Labor. Labor, though in deadly danger be-
fore, has been in the ascendant ever since.
The Country party arrived as an organised
protest against the unhealthy growth and
the exorbitant demands of the Big Cities.
It has become strong in at least three
States, and it will become stronger, there
and elsewhere, if it remains a distinct party
(without shirking its share of the respon-
sibilities of government) and stands firmly
for an unlimited right to contest electorates
without any pre-selection jugglery; and,
above all, if it projects its vision beyond
the haystack and the cow-paddock. It has
paid too little attention to the possibilities
of industrial development in country towns,
although every State has its countiy towns
in which these possibilities are great. And
a section of it, ■ at least, is addicted to
railing at the tariff instead of accepting it
as a preserver of country industries and,
rightly used, as an engine of progress.
Curiously enough, a lot of this railing is
done by politicians who profess to speak
for the dried-fruits industry. Yet if the
tariff were taken away the dried-fruits in-
dustry would be snuffed out in a few
months.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Test-match Spirit.
Three Test matches have dragged their
slow length along, and there are two more
to be perpetrated. The crowds and the
gate-money have made history of a sort,
and so has the appalling amount of rubbish
which has been written. It began with
idiotic speculations in England and the
Commonwealth, and descended to sickening
brag by one set of partisans (“We are out
to give Australia the biggest hiding it ever
had,” said the London Daily Express after
the Brisbane game), and to pitiful whining
and snarling by another. Naturally the
skiting and the squealing have had a bad
effect on the barrackers, hitherto good-
humored, and there have been ugly demon-
strations against umpires and visiting
players, one wicket-keeper in particular.
International (and inter-State) cricket
used to be a very pleasant diversion for
both players and spectators. The men in
flannels were mostly unspoilt young fellows
in the twenties who obviously enjoyed play-
ing and didn’t care a dump for “averages.”
Among them were “characters” like the
Trotts, “Jonah,” the Jarvises, Ulyett and
Briggs, whose cheerfulness was infectious.
But nowadays representative cricket is 2
per cent, game and 98 per cent, business.
Its votaries are generally deadly serious
persons in the thirties and forties who don't
mind how long they take to make a
hundred or how many overs they bowl off
the wicket. And, with very few exceptions,
the alleged amateurs are as keen on getting
paid for their exertions as the avowed pro-
fessionals. Many of them, crowding out
the amiable gossipy chroniclers of other
days, write, or profess to write, for the
papers; indeed, members of the Australian
eleven arrive at the ground of a morning
with a bat in one hand and a fountain-pen
in the other. Nearly all these worthies
endeavor to supply spicy stuff, like the
young lions of sensational press. The
result is that a vast amount of paper has
been stained with boastful and spiteful refer-
ences, miserable excuses for failure (one
player-writer blamed “the shadows over the
pitch” for his discomfiture), utterly un-
warranted criticism of the umpire, and
caddish attacks on officials and opponents.
This is a severely competitive age, and it
is questionable whether England or Aus-
tralia can afford to make a business of a
pastime in which one match lasts three to
six days and tens of thousands knock off
work to watch it. Neither country is faring
particularly well in the struggle with
nations which, while playing
every other English game, reject cricket
as a waste of time. Certainly if bad feel-
ing is to be a feature of these Test matches,
we would both be far better without them.
>
The New Customs Minister.
When Henry Gullett, a new politician of
doubtful or unpromising fiscal views, was
taken into the Federal Cabinet with the
supremely important portfolio of Minister
of Customs, some wondered, while a great
many didn’t. The, latter leaped to the con-
clusion that it was a matter not of securing
the best possible administrator, but of tak-
ing over the worst possible critic, a man
who held up the allegedly Protectionist
Bruce-Page Cabinet to vitriolic scorn, and
putting him where criticism would be im-
possible. It was a curious proceeding to
replace Pratten, a business man to whom
the promotion of Australian industry was
a gospel, with one whose knowledge of
campaigning in Palestine was brilliant but
irrelevant, yet not so curious as it might
have been. One kind of fiscalist might suit
the Ministerial frame of mind as well as
another provided he wasn’t the disturbing
kind.
It being the Parliamentary recess, when
the Cabinet flees from Canberra into silence,
all except a young apprentice Minister who
is left behind to be a sentry asleep at his
post, Henry Gullett took the opportunity
of a lunch at Sandringham (Vic.) to define
himself:—
“Although I am a Protectionist and have
always been a Protectionist, I am not in any
sense a Prohibitionist. The policy of this
Government, or of any sound Government in
this country, must be to hold the balance as
fairly as possible between the two great
branches of industry, primary and secondary.
Such a policy, however, cannot bo maintained
by any Government that stands for fiscal
Prohibition.”
That sort of platitude creates in The Bul-
letin a desire to damn—and damn hard—
the balance between primary industry, which
includes goldmining (now lamentably
decayed) and rabbit-trapping, and the
secondary sort, which embraces the making
of highly specialised machinery for our own
use. The balance might be maintained by
discouraging machinery manufacture as a
set-off against a scarcity of rabbits, but it
isn’t worth while. Australia can’t live on
admirable and acrobatic equipoise, however
much it may appeal to the theoretical mind
and however much it may be the duty of
a hollow-sounding Ministry to preserve the
same. And it isn’t a duty uhless the thing
pajrs, and makes for solvency, and tends
to keep the nation out of the ridiculous
pawnshop, and provides employment as a
natural sequence. ,
If good progress is made towards these
results, it is of no importance though one
industrial scale hits the stars and the other
lodges on the roof of the Bottomless Pit.
But to achieve such results it is necessary
for the country to make some 40 or 50
millions more pounds per annum, either by
exporting more rabbits and suchlike, or by
importing less motor-cars and things, and
either making them for ourselves by the
employment of our own people or doing
without. That trade deficit of, so many
millions, made good only by borrowing,
is an enormous fact which gets no mention
in the Customs Minister’s skim-milky nar-
rative. Possibly he hasn’t heard of it,
though his talented predecessor knew all
about it.
Australia has really three great branches
of industry: primary, secondary and tertiary,
the last-named after the three balls sus-
pended over Uncle’s door. The Gulletts
and other whitewashed Freetraders have a
remarkable tendency to ignore the third
side of the triangle.
*
Gaol for Poverty.
It has been said that the proudest moment
in Dickens’s life was when he first believed
—erroneously, as it turned out—that his
writings were to bring about the abolition of
imprisonment for debt. In N. S. Wales
nearly a century after he began his cam-
paign, Long Bay Gaol teems with debtor-
convicts, and some have every prospect of
being there indefinitely.
The commonest variety is the defaulting
husband who is in durance on a writ of
attachment taken out by his wife. He has
got into arrears with the payments legally
(though not always equitably) due to her,
and the law allows her to take the debt
out of his hide by sending him to gaol.
For, of course, she has no hope of recover-
ing the arrears in that way, unless—which
rarely happens—he has the money but needs
to have it squeezed out of him.
Another type of prisoner is the insolvent
judgment debtor who has incurred the ill-
will of one outside his family circle. An
unfortunate in this category was mentioned
before Justice Long Innes in Bankruptcy.
A woman got a £SOO verdict against him
for defamation five months ago, and he
could not pay that or the costs, amounting
to £267. She had him arrested on a ca. sa.
order, and as he could earn nothing worth
talking of in gaol even if he were in good


THE EASIER WAY.
"A Parliamentary Select Committee in Westralia has reported that Greenough was won in 1927 for the Labor party by the Labor Government rushing a mob of Perth
laborers to the electorate just in time to be enrolled for it. In order to make the enrolment possible the electoral office had to be kept open till midnight.”
JIM BINDERTWINE: "They’re travellin' voters, Bill. The Government drops them in wherever it needs a few more electors to win a seat."
BILL SPAREPARTS: "Cripes, that’s expensive, ain’t it? Why don’t they just let the Premier for the time bein’ do the counting?”
health (and in point of fact he is a cripple),
he is there, in effect, during her pleasure.
The Judge remarked that “there was some-
thing amiss with the law when the liberty
of a subject could be-at the personal caprice
of a creditor,” but he did not deny that
creditors hold this tremendous power.
There is a strong case for altering the law
to conform with civilised standards of
justice and humanity.
♦
The Case for Foreign Coal.
Hopes are entertained that before this year
is through the long-dragged-out N. S. Wales
coal disturbance will have taken definite
shape, or cleared itself up, or simmered
down, or something. The doing of some-
thing definite by the South Australian
Government about its contracts will prob-
ably accelerate things. The position which
confronts the people of that State is
briefly this:—
(1) The State produces no coal and is
a chronic buyer from N. S. Wales. If coal
prices go up, as they did till the climax of
1926, N. S. Wales railways and industries cer-
tainly suffer; but the State collects the price
and has the money to spend. S. Australia
gets the suffering and nothing else.
(2) This position helps to explain why the
railway finances of S. Australia are in a
specially bad way. Also why the fuel bill in
its factories absorbs per cent, more of the
value of the work done (value added in pro-
cess of manufacture) than the average, and
why the “margin left for profits and miscel-
laneous expenses” is about £l4 ss. per cent,
of the value of the gross output, whereas the
average for the six States is £l7 10s.
(3) As coal can be landed at Adelaide from
England 7s. to 10s. per ton cheaper than it
is landed from N. S. Wales, the S. Australian
Government asks for better terms, else it will
shift its custom and encourage its people to
do likewise. A reduction of ss. per ton is
asked, which would still be giving N. S.
Wgles a preference.
High coal prices, aggravated by intense
uncertainty of supply resulting from inces-
sant industrial disturbances, are not only bad
for the export trade, as the strike-bedevilled
Newcastle-Maitland field is finding out.
They also tie) a millstone to the heels of
manufacturing'; industry. And manufactur-
ing employed 467,247 people in the Com-
monwealth by last advices, while coal-
mining found work for only 31,774. The
output of factories was worth over
£408,000,000 in 1926-27, which was
£60,000,000 more than in 1923-24. On the
other hand the total mineral output at last
advices was £24,000,000, of which coal repre-
sented about £12,000,000. And while factory
industries are capable of finding steady work
for 9000 new people each year (and ought to
be able to take on many more), mining
shows no sign of being able to support
more than it does now. In fact, their
number is said to call for drastic reduc-
tion.
The case which Newcastle has to meet is
that if a State, by the use of cheap imported
fuel, can employ more people industrially
than it displaces otherwise, then factory
industry must have first consideration. It
seems a shameful thing to burn foreign
coal in Australia; but if by buying £1 worth
of foreign coal £2 more local manufacturing
industry can be maintained than it is pos-
sible to maintain otherwise, then there seems
no rational course but to use the foreign
coal. Until, that is< to say, the Australian
coal can be supplied at no greater price than
the foreign.
♦
The Beneficent Poacher.
Germany is re-entering the Western Pacific
island trade, which she carried on so suc-
cessfully before the war with the heavily-
subsidised N.D.L. liners. These ran from
Hongkong to Sydney by way of New Guinea
and Samarai in Papua, and did a roaring
trade in freights both ways. The growing
prosperity of German New Guinea at that
period was largely due to the marketing
facilities these steamers offered to the copra
growers, the subsidies permitting low
freights going and coming.
But while Sydney benefited in some
degree as a terminal port for this trade,
matters promise to be different under the
new regime, because the German steamers
will come no further south than Rabaul,
returning to Hongkong after picking up
their cargoes of copra and other Island
produce. Shipping of other nationalities is
doing this already; and Sydney shipping
and other interests connected with the
Island trade will be hit more or less. They
will certainly have to review their south-
ward freights for Island produce, and pro-
vide better facilities for shippers.
Still, there are compensations from the
general point of view. The new service will
prove of great benefit to New Guinea and
Papuan producers. It will give them yet
another much-needed opportunity to get
their products quickly and cheaply to the
nearest market. That must inevitably spell
increasing prosperity and the building up
of a capacity for self-support in the days to
come. Both Papua and New Guinea are
costing the Australian taxpayer a very large
sum annually for their upkeep. It is doubt-
ful whether all the profits flowing into the
country from Australia’s Island trade can
balance that yearly outgoing. In any case,
it seems unreasonable to object to the
former owner being permitted to do his bit
towards paying off the mortgage on the
property.
*
Dope and the Dentists.
Chemists and dentists in N. S. Wales are
perturbed by the prospect that the Federal
authorities may curtail the quantities of
cocaine and morphine which they may law-
fully have in their possession. These quan-
tities amount now to four ounces of each
drug a year. The weak point here is that,
while such quantity may be just sufficient
for a chemist or dentist in a fairly large
way of business, it is enough to last others
for years, with the risk of the surplus being
diverted into one of the channels which
feed the curse of drug-addiction.
Hitherto those engaged in combating
drug-addiction have not paid much atten-
tion to chemists or dentists as potential
suppliers of the traffic; but recently a sur-
prise check-up of the records which both
are supposed to keep disclosed that there
was an amazingly large number who could
not explain where fairly large quantities
of cocaine and morphine had gone, while
some were in possession of supplies much
in excess of the amounts permitted.
Since there now seems little reason to
doubt that members of both callings are
trafficking in drugs, the sensible thing to
do would be to curtail the narcotics allowed
to be held at one time to a few drachms
or even less. This would not inconvenience
the reputable practitioner, who would have
on hand much more of the drugs than he
would be likely to require for his legiti-
mate needs of the moment, and who could
always obtain fresh supplies from the ware-
house; but it would put a serious crimp in
the activities of the black sheep, since such
a small quantity of dope would not be
enough for illicit trading. And too-frequent
purchasers from the wholesale warehouses
would come under the eye of official sus-
picion.
In No Man’s Land.
Anyone desiring to become a pirate should
note the case of one R. W. Read, recently
charged before the New Guinea Central
Court at Rabaul. The indictment alleged
that he, being on board the ship Nama-
nullah within the Territory of New Guinea,
piratically ran away with the said ship. He
was acquitted on the ground that, under
section 80 of the Queensland Criminal Code,
which has been adopted as the law of the
Territory, he was not a British subject,
nor was the ship, though registered in the
Territory, a British ship, the section apply-
ing only to British ships and subjects.
The Court found that New Guinea was
held by a British dominion under mandate
from the League of Nations, and was not a
British dominion or possession, and that
the nationality of its inhabitants was dis-
tinct from that of the Mandatory Power.
However, on a second charge against Read
of attempting to murder a Japanese on board
the pirated vessel, the Court was more cer-
tain of its ground. It convicted the offender,
and gave him four years’ hard.
The Australian Mandatory had better get
busy and rectify the glaring anomalies out-
lined in the decision, correct as that appa-
rently was. If the present condition of
topsy-turvydom is allowed to continue, no
one in the Territory will, be certain exactly
where he stands, and trouble may be ex-
pected from all sorts of quarters.
♦
The Old Prison Hand.
“Manar” : In his recent article on the prison
system of N. S. Wales (B. 21/11/’2B),
“J.H.M.A” lauds the advanced methods of
segregating and treating youthful offenders;
but he is silent about the methods which
prevail in those prisons where the older
lawbreakers are confined.
The two chief weak points of such in-
stitutions'as the penitentiary at Long Bay
(mainly a receiving and classifying depot
and for short-term offenders), the Goulburn
and Bathurst prisons (first, second and third
sentences) and the prison at Parramatta
(old hands) are that most of the inmates
spend most of their time) at either futile
jobs or at no jobs at all. Some sort of
an attempt is made at teaching trades -to
the more promising, but so far as these are
likely to be productive of any lasting re-
formative effects they are practically useless.
And worse than that in some cases. For
instance, the two trades which are com-
monly taught are shoemaking and tailoring;
but so antiquated are the lines upon which
instruction is imparted that should an ex-
prisoner be lucky enough to secure a job
at one of them, his style would enable his
fellow-workers to pick him out as a gaol-
taught craftsman, with the usual result of
dismissal or degradation.
And it is only a certain proportion who
are given even this meagre instruction, the
rest spending their time at such tasks as
sweeping up yards and corridors, emptying
sanitary vessels or carrying around food.
When not so engaged they are locked up
in their cells., often without anything to
read and with no means of passing the
hours from 4 p.m. to about 7 a.m. next
day.
There are other faults in the system, such
as the hideous and misshapen garb in which
prisoners are clothed and which is in itself
sufficient to impress constantly upon the
minds of those who have to wear it that
they are outcasts from society; and any-
bodv with even a passing knowledge of
psychology realises how far-reaching may
be the effects of the subconscious suggestion
so produced.
The ideal and efficient penal system bends
everything towards making prisoners better
citizens, especially by teaching them trades
at which they might have a chance of mak-
ing a living after their emergence into the
world again.
Over 75 per cent, of those received into
the gaols of N. S. Wales are unskilled and
without occupations of any kind—which
goes a long way towards explaining why
they are in prison at all.
Following on the announcement of the
bumper rice crop on the Murrumbidgee irri-
gation area, N.S.W. Minister for Agriculture
Thorby has stated that the quantity to be
produced next season will exceed the Aus-
tralian demand. That will necessitate the
finding of an outside market for the surplus.
In Papua and New Guinea, both under
Australian control, there is a demand for
many thousands of tons annually. This
demand is on the up grade by reason of
the increasing vogue of the New Guinea
goldfields. Here is a trade which Australia
should secure. Our machine-planting" and
-harvesting should be able to beat
Asiatic buffalo-plough and hand-working
methods in the matter of cost of production.
If, however, it cannot quite do that and
pay also for the higher cost of transporta-
tion, it still ought to be easily possible to
make reciprocal arrangements between Aus-
tralia and its northern offspring.


Snell Oils succeed
F
97.52 m.p.fnon a Twin Port T.T. Triumph Motor Cycle—
one of the fastest times ever recorded on the road in Australia —
was put up by Sid. Goodsell in the recent flying challenge.
Shell Motor Oil, chosen for this sensational dash, demonstrated its
faultless lubricating properties under terrific speeds .
SHELL MOTOR OILS
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE FROM SEALED EQUIPMENT
SDF
POLITICAL
POINTS
War between Innisfail (North Queens-
land) and Italy has happily been averted.
The silly and somewhat beered youths who
shifted the painted board from the Italian
vice-consulate on Christmas Eve have testi-
fied that they didn’t know it was a coat-of-
arms and had no intention of insulting a
friendly Power, so the vice-consul-has abated
his choler. Apropos, it was over JO years
ago that the desperate venture of making
United Italy was in preparation, and to
Victor Emmanuel and Co. the support of
Napoleon 111 seemed a matter of life or
death. They thought that death had. come
for certain when Orsini went to Paris and
threw bombs the size of floating mines at
tjie emperor and empress, the result being
10 dead, 156 wounded and a wrecked street.
But the phlegmatic Bonaparte said he
wouldn’t make an international grievance of
the business, or treat it as a premeditated
slur on his dignity. The Italian vice-consul
at Innisfail lacked the Napoleonic calm.
Canberra has had two fruitful topics for
discussion during the dog-days—the transfer
of Percy Deane from
the Prime Minister’s
department to that of
Home Affairs, and the
suspension of - Mal-
colm Shepherd. Shep-
herd typed letters for
and shooed callers
away from Fisher and
Hughes, and was the
first politician’s secre-
tary to gather a de-
partment about him—
the bad precedent has
been followed in some
of the States, with
even less cause.
Deane succeeded him
when he went to the
London office in 1921.
For a year or so Shep-
herd has been secre-
tary of the Defence
Department at £2OOO
p.a. The allegation
of a tenderer for an
aeroplane contract led
to the Minister sus-
pending him, and the
Malcolm Shepherd.
case will be judged by a board of inquiry.
Prime Minister Bruce, interviewed by the
Returned Soldiers’ League, explained that
‘‘in view of Australia’s vast unpeopled areas
it would not be justified at this stage in
prohibiting the entry of Southern Europeans
into the Commonwealth.” Perhaps the pro-
hibition will be justified some day and per-
haps not, but why drag the “vast unpeopled
areas” in by the heels or the hair of the
head? Bruce isn’t filling Empty Australia
with aliens —or with anybody else, for that
matter.
Overseas shipowners talk of increasing
freight rates to Australia by 10 p.c., and
many Australian manufacturers say it would
be a 'dashed good thing. The huge charges
and the losses by industrial disturbance at
Australian ports are mentioned in explana-
tion. The people who bought the seven
Commonwealth ships are under contract to
keep them, or something similar, running at
the old rates for ten years unless they get
permission to make a rise, which condition
may help to explain why the line didh’t
fetch more; but their 53,420 tons net isn’t
a very large drop in the bucket. If freight
charges are increased 10 p.c. it wouldn’t be
amiss to add 10 per cent, to customs duties,
just to show that we can be as liberal as the
next fellow.
The danger of trusting to one channel for
communication with the world outside was
shown lately when a fire at Ballan (Vic.)
put the beam temporarily out of business.
The La Perouse station carried on, but it is
weak, slow and fitful, so the cables reaped
the harvest. It is not generally remembered
by politicians who whooped for the total
extinction of the rivals to the beam that the
cable concerns have built up a network of
lines which, though expensive, make the
complete isolation of Australia practically
impossible. There are at least eight permu-
tations and combinations of cable routes
to Europe. If we had 40 beam stations we
would still have only one wireless channel —
the incalculable ether.
As Mayor of Greater Brisbane, W. A.
Jolly bosses the local affairs of a district
with a greater population and revenue, pub-
lie utilities included,
than the State of Tas-
mania. It is just on
four years since the
Greater Brisbane
Council airriVed, and
results have far from
realised the rosy anti-
cipations of the Labor
Government which
ushered in the experi-
ment and loaded it
with, among other
things, a tramway
system bought (heed-
less of the motor-bus)
for a million and a
half. However, Jolly
Mayor Jolly.
announced at the year’s end that economies
■ had improved the position and that the
town clerk had been taken from dry-as-dust
work and made a sort of city manager, with
orders to effect more. In fact, the deficit
would be a good deal less than the £98,000
' estimated in May.
The Bruce-Page Government will have to
do something about the Lithgow (N.S.W.)
small-arms factory. This concern has
machinery and plant worth millions, and a
cadre of skilled artisans second to none.
Aeroplane parts are made in a small way—
many of the essential portions of Wackett’s
Widgeon I. and 11. were fabricated there—
and with additions to plant which would not
have to be left in the packing-cases, as hap-
pened when the blight fell on the C.M.F.,
the organisation could at least help to build
up Australia’s air defences, as recommended
by Sir John Salmond. In the war years
1500 men were on the job, and if new life
were breathed. into the C.M.F., to say no-
thing of the Air Force, there would be work
for at least 1000 men, instead of the present
skeleton staff of 350.
The Fremantle Harbor Trust Commis-
sioners say that too many ships come bang-
ing into their wharves, doing damage and
upsetting apparatus into the harbor. As
their own pilots are generally in charge they
admitted the liability until recently; but they
now propose to ask Parliament to enact that
the ships must pay. And Australian ports
are already described as the most expensive
in the world. As much as 9s. 41d. per ton
of cargo shifted was alleged as a recent
instance.
Dr. Arthur, State Minister of Health, is
a great believer in milk for infants, and
looks forward to a good time coming when
the N.S.W. babies will drink all that the
N.S.W. cows produce. Then the State will
go shoi*t of the £1,500,000 or so per annum
which it realises by the sale of butter, and
will presumably buy its cowgrease also out
of loans. The little doc. is not very practical,
but he is as bright as the headlight of a
locomotive.
State control of the liquor trade, tried in
many lands, has proved something of a suc-
cess in British Columbia, though not in the
direction of cutting down consumption.
Liquor sales advanced £200,000 during the
year just past; the total takings were
£3,600,000, representing £6 per head of popu-
lation. Profit was over 20 per cent., and
half was collared for hospitals and mothers’
pensions. Both are more deserving objects
than the bootlegger, who seems to be the
sole beneficiary under total prohibition.
Since Federation the greatest number of
changes of Ministry during the lifetime of a
Vic. Parliament was from 1911 to 1914.
Murray resigned the Premiership in favor of
Watt. Then Watt was displaced by Elmslie.
After 13 days Watt returned, and six months
afterwards lie handed the reins to Peacock.
Between 1921 and 1924 Lawson was head of
a Nat. Ministry, then of a Composite Cabi-
net, and next of a second Nat. Government.
Finally he relinquished the Premiership to
Peacock. So the changes made during the
present Parliament (Allan to Hogan, and
Hogan to McPherson) are nothing out of
the way.
It is now clear that the Bruce-Page re-
duced the bounty on exported wine at the
worst possible time for the industry. While
other products of the soil have shown a ten-
dency to decline in recent times, both as to
the area sown and the size of the crop
reaped, production of grapes and wine in-
creased nearly 400 per cent, in 10 years. But
a great part of last year’s liquor remains
unsold, and in consequence the price offered
for grapes this year is so low that a large
proportion of the crop will be left to rot un-
less something happens. In 1925 the Govern-
ment struck a special idea, and levied an
excise duty described as being on “spirits for
fortifying wine (distilled from Doradillo
grapes).” It yielded nearly £600,000 in the
first complete year, and since then it seems
to have yielded enough-to break people. The
Government is bogged in deep thought over
the matter.
The A.C.T.U.,'which was set up to be the
Supreme High Command of industrial labor,
is a comparatively new creation, but it has
already eaten quite two pecks of dirt. First
the sea-cooks and then the watersiders
flouted it, and now the timber workers, egged
on by Sovieteers in Sydney, have decided to
show their disapproval of an award, the
minutes of which they were invited, by a
diffident Court to criticise, by embarking on
a strike. The timber trade is up against com-
petition from countries where workers think
themselves lucky to get Sunday off and to find
in their pay-envelopes half the pay drawn by
the Australian wood-juggler; but “strike
first, lick your wounds afterwards, and blast
all authority” is the watchword.
It has been brightly suggested in Adelaide
that the out-of-date structure in which the
Leg. Council deliberates should be demol-
ished to make room, for “a first-class hotel."
Objectors point out that the site is too small
for anything but a skyscraper, which would
spoil the appearance of the Leg. Assembly
buildings and the new railway station. An
alternative proposal, which is more likely
to be adopted, is to house sundry Govern-
ment departments alongside Parliament, in-
stead of in Victoria-square, half a mile
away, and to build the Leg. Council a hall
on the other side of the Assembly.
One of the Sydney papers published a
report that James Fraser, the Chief Rail-
way Commissioner,
would resign if the
Bavinshaw Govern-
ment went on with
the proposal of Dr.
Bradfield, the Harbor-
Bridge engineer, for a
city railway station at
Circular Quay. It
wasn’t as bad as that,
but Fraser and his
fellow - Commissioners
flatly condemn the
Quay site, preferring
an overhead station in
Harrington -street,
much nearer the
bridge, with entrances
from Pitt-street and
George -street. This,
they say, would be
better for traffic, and 1
would not doom valu-
able Government
buildings or obstruct
the development of
the Quay for deep-sea
shipping: and the cost
they reckon at a mil-
lion or so less than the
James Fraser.
Quay proposition. The argument of cost
should appeal to an embarrassed Govern-
ment, especially as railway finance concerns
Fraser intimately and doesn’t concern Brad-
field at all.
In N.S.W. the other day 23 homestead
farms and three Crown leases were offered
to be balloted for at Rankin Springs, and
1838 candidates _ went to the poll. Rankin
Springs is just inside the recognised wheat-
growing area and is a railway terminus. The
average size of the 26 blocks was 2300 acres
apiece, so the ballot wasn’t any flashy device
for promoting closer settlement. A home-
stead farm, is a liberal area of fair land, let
in perpetuity to a lucky gambler at a very
low rental and with a number of con-
cessions thrown in. To get one is like get-
ting a Cup winner without paying for the
ticket. A Labor Government invented the
homestead farm for. the same reason that
similar Governments devised the baby bonus
and the child-endowment scheme.
The situation at the Catamaran mine
(Tas.) is something like this. Miners took
over the show on a two-years’ agreement to
work it under their own manager and to
receive 235. 9d. per ton for coal delivered
on the surface. The company was to sell the
coal, and any profits were to be divided.
Wages, when trouble set in, ran to
£1 per working day, which seemed better
than being out of work. Still, at the end
of nine months, the union demanded 28s. per
ton. The reply was that the owners saw no
point in subsidising their own pit or any-
body else’s pit for amusement, but they
offered to hand over the enterprise and let
the union sell the coal itself and divide
the takings. The negotiation falling through,
work and pav ceased. Doubtless a principle
was involved; but if a principle requires
that the producer shall get the whole selling
value of the produce and a subsidy from
somebody to boot, it is difficult to find the
right somebody.
The McPherson (Vic.) Ministry made a
pretty good impression while Parliament was
Groves, Vic. Min-
ister of Railways.
sitting, and is not
likely to loaf on its job
during the six months’
recess. Argyle is
keenly desirous of
building up a first-rate
police force, and of
making adequate pro-
vision for t.b. sufferers
and mental cases.
Cohen has a great
chance at the Educa-
tion Department, and
Macfarlan at the Law
Department; both are
specially well equip-
ped. Groves is a
bundle of energy, and
what he lacks in capa-
; city he will make up
! in political sagacity.
Cuthbertson is . busi-
ness-like, Morley is
breezy and popular,
and Kent Hughes, the
sec., is more than
worth *his oats. Count-
ing him, the Cabinet
has six University
men—an unusual proportion for a Vic-
Ministry. '
A curious item from Adelaide
The secretary of the Federated Moulders’ Union
said there was an opinion among unionists that no
Court could reduce wages or increase hours, but the
decision of the Full Arbitration Court in the case
of the timber workers showed it was unfounded and
would make the tribunal dess popular than before.
If employers would only “modernise their
equipment,” the union secretary added, they
could manage the 44-hour week. But
it would take a pile of money to keep
factory equipment alone absolutely up to
date, just as it would to replace every build-
ing, including antiquated Trades Halls,
which hasn’t all the latest improvements, or
to reconstruct every ship when a fresh idea
in ships comes to hand. The proposition
that employers are gods is a convenient way
of shifting responsibility, but some emiffoyers
haven’t money enough to take on the god-job.
A virulent influenza epidemic is pouring
westward over the United States and Canada,
wherefore people begin to ask wildly in Syd-
ney papers what the State medical authorities
propose doing to prevent a repetition of 1919.
But the matter is one for the Federal Govern-
ment. If the danger is really serious that
Government might have to prohibit all ves-
sels from the west coast of North America
entering Australian ports, and perhaps all
vessels which have passed through the Panama
Canal. Trade from the east coast round the
Hope or the Horn would be less dangerous
owing to the distance. Certainly no one
wants a new edition of the last' epidemic.
Dying is an event which happens to every-
body, but to live and go about in a leprous-
looking mask is too much. N. S. Wales
specialised in the rag on its countenance, and
it had a bigger increase in its death-rate than
any other State while the trouble lasted.
“Clifford Snook”: In speaking a good word
for the Afghan 11. D. Petters (B. 26/12/’2B)
said that he is a loyal friend and a bad
enemy. This may be said of plenty of
strenuous folk. Some of them, unfortu-
nately, when they alter their opinion of you,
neglect to give the orthodox three days’
notice either in writing or through a legal
adviser.
Italians are clearing land in Eyre’s Penin-
sula (S.A.) for deferred pay, asking only
tucker for the time being. In most cases
payment is to be held over until after the
harvest; but in some instances a 12-months’
postponement of wages has been agreed to.
Militant unionists consider that something
ought to be done about it, but it’s one of
those _ problems that can’t be solved by de-
manding the socialisation of industry or
declaring anybody black.
THE SEASON O TEACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
T would the blessfed Yule were aye with us,”
The poet mused, ‘‘if only for the truce
It brings us from the platitudinous
Amenities of Bruce.
“Amid the chiming bells’ melodious sounds
Repressed perforce we find the noble rage,
What time financial problems he expounds,
Of somewhat strident Page;
“No scolding Scullin doth his wrath uncork
For all to hear—or read. And Theodore
Emits no clatter, safe with knife and fork
On Kirribilli’s shore.
“Bavin is silent. Still’d is Stevens’ tongue,
So glib on dreary taxes to dispute.
'nd somewhere Auburn’s sweetnesses among
Splenetic Lang is mute.
The roar of Hogan, railing at the foes
Who hurled him from his job, no longer
comes
To wake the echoes where the Murray flows
Or under .Otway gums.
“Butler and Collier, Forgan Smith, McPhee
Lay for a space polemics on the shelves,
Cease for the nonce to rate the enemy
Or glorify themselves.
“Season of peace, which respite can afford
Even from ‘Piddo’s’ dialectics tough,
And send Tom Henley from the Water Board
To grapple with the duff.
“This blessfed Christmastide, without the
blast
Of disputation fierce from warring
cliques,”
The bard soliloquised, “why can’t it last
More than a couple o’ weeks ?”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
SHE DIDN’T WANT TO BE CAUGHT UNPREPARED.
“But what’s your idea in getting married on the thirteenth?”
“Oh well, my dear, I must have some thing to blame if I want to get out of it.”
“Hamer”: Smithers is. a staid public
character nowadays, but I never meet him
without recalling an adventure of other times.
It was a Christmas Eve long before the war;
the day had been full of hilarity and beer,
and about half an hour before the pubs closed
in those spacious days Smithers. waking up
on the Manly boat, stirred his sleeping com-
panions and called for a financial muster.
It revealed a condition of aggregate bank-
ruptey. “We must have some money!” he
pronounced, and suddenly seized a co-revel-
ler’s hat. In ten minutes he brought it
back heavily weighted with coins—he had
rattled it under the noses of passengers who,
thinking he was collecting for the ferry
musicians and warmed by the benevolent
impulses of the season, had put in generously.
The anger the real collector encountered
when he presently made his rounds must
have surprised him; but Smithers wore the
air nf an opulent philanthropist as he
dropped his shilling into the almost-empty
collecting-box.
* * * >»
“X.D.”: At Christmas, feeling sociably
inclined, the Mayor of Mafeking (S’Africa)
sent fraternal greetings and a request for
information to “the Mayor of Mafeking
(Vic.).” The message was easily delivered.
Mafeking (Vi c -)> which 25 years ago was a
crowded gold-mining settlement, now has a
population of one.
si: si: sj: 4=
“Matakitaki” : In these days of lady motor-
drivers one has to be chary of proffering
assistance, or he may meet with an unex-
pected rebuff. A friend of mine driving
along a quiet road the other day came on
a girl peering beneath the bonnet of a car
parked on the roadside. Always a friend of
beauty in distress, he hopped out and ran
gallantly to her assistance, noting at the
same time a matronly woman sitting in the
back seat holding a baby. “What’s the
trouble?” he asked. “No trouble at all,” said
the girl a little coldly, “I’ve just stopped to
heat the baby’s bottle against the engine.”
s|< 4s * Jit
“Boy Ar”: Oswald Pryor’s quaintly-
amusing delineations of old-time Cousin Jacks
always remind me of Sam Green, who
came out to the Walhalla mine in Ginps-
land in the early ’seventies, and with whom
I worked at Hillgrove in 1893. At that
time England and Germany were exchanging
growls over a territorial disagreement in
Africa, and feeling ran high in both coun-
tries. Discussing the matter with Sam dur-
ing crib-time one day, I casually asked him
how he thought England would fare if she
had a clash of arms with the Teutons. “Eng-
land baten easy if Cornwall stand by ’er,”
pronounced Sain. “Surely,” I said, “it won’t
make much difference to England what one
county does.” “Cornwall be no county, me
son,” returned the old man. “Then what the
deuce is it?” I asked. “Cornwall,” roared
Sam, “is a country ’long by England, and if
they Germans come over they’ll knaw all
about en.” I left it at that.
* * * *
“P.M.” : Apropos of doctors’ bad debts (B.
2G/12/’2B), I know a Gippsland cockie who
received an account for 12 guineas for a
visit that meant a motor-drive of 50 miles
into the Outback. At the saleyards he
aired his views on the extortionate charges
of the profession and some of his strictures
came to the doctor’s ears. Next sale day the
medico, who is a bit of a sport, stuck up his
ex-patient in the street, and held out a note-
book to him. “This contains a record of
close on £lOOO in unpaid accounts,” he pre-
mised. “If you can collect £2OO out of it in
the next three months, I undertake to cancel
your bill, and treat your family free of
charge for the next two years, and shout you
a bottle of whisky into the bargain.” • The >
offer was not accepted.
❖ * *
“Shop”: The indignity to which the Italian
coat of arms was subjected by some Innis-
fail (Q.) roysterers reminds me of a hap-
pening when our unit was camped at Alex-
andria and a souvenir raid was made on
the town in an effort to brighten a dull
period. Amongst trophies that were carted
back to camp per gharry was a marble-top
table that had graced a Gyppo street caf6,
and a collection of palms, advertisements and
flags. The other spoils wouldn’t have mat-
tered much, but a few of the more reckless
insisted on getting a French Tricolor, com-
plete with ornamental pole, secured by a
bracket to the house of one of France’s lead-
ing citizens. Their efforts to dislodge it
awoke the Frenchman, and he appeared on
the scene just as an extra hard heave brought
bracket, pole and flag away from the wall.
The damage' to his property didn’t bother
the householder, but the insult to France
quite broke him up. However, when it was
explained that the flag was to ornament a
Digger camp the good old sport came to
light with vin rouge to cement friendships,
and ended up by throwing in another flag
for luck.
* * * *
“Mick Marr”: Include among considerate
suicides (B. 2/l/’29) a horse-trainer with
OBEDIENT TO THE LAST.
“But what became of your first wife?”
“I was too fond of telling her where to go, and one night she went, and—now I'm a
widower.”
whom I was once acquainted. Before taking
a 60ft. leap into a deserted quarry he wrote
a farewell letter to his wife commending
her and liis infant daughter to the care of
Providence. Nor did he forget a brother of
sporting proclivities. “Tell Bob to have a
pound or two on Toothpick next Saturday,”
was his final injunction.
* * *
“Quiz”: A lone fisherman who was tem-
porarily leaving his lines at midnight on a
Williamstown (Vic.) pier for the shelter
of a near-by shed, saw a figure cautiously
passing in the darkness, and greeted it
with a cheery “Hello, there!” The un-
known promptly dropped a bag of flour and
faded away into the shadows. The angler
retrieved the spoil and subsequently carried
it home with his catch. Next day he was
relating the incident to a number of men in
a local pub when two of his auditors hur-
riedly left the premises. “Fancy me mistakin’
that* damn cow for the pier watchman!”
growled one of them morosely to his mate as
they reached the open.
t * * *
“Morita”: There was never any lack of
volunteers, when blood transfusion was neces-
sary in France. I remember one occa-
sion when a few badly-wounded cases
were in the dressing station, and it
was thought fresh blood would be re-
quired for them. Lining up a section
of stretcher-bearers who were resting,
a doctor put the position to them,
and asked for volunteers. Every
man stepped forward. A Tommy
officer who was watching the proceed-
ings was amazed and impressed by the
unanimous response, and commented
on it to the medico in admiring terms.
“Noble offer be damned,” was the doc.’s
reply. “Every one of them knows lie’s
on 14 days’ leave if he gives blood,
and they’re all praying they’ll be
picked out.”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: A dead whale nearly spoilt
Christmas for the small population of
Seaspray (Vic.). It landed on the
beach long enough before the festive
day to infuse a strong smell of decay-
ing cetacean into the turkey and duck.
The disgusted residents were on the
point of forming a working bee to
remove the unwelcome Christmas box
in sections when Neptune took a hand and
shifted the abomination to a reasonable
distance.
# * ❖ *
“Bloggs” : That cable about American mil-
lionaires paying up to £BOO for the novelty
of visiting the stately homes of England at
Christmas time must have referred to very
recent plutocratic quotas. Practically all
the well-known financial families of the
U.S.A. are represented in the British coun-
ties already. The Goelets and their friends
can go to Floors, Miss May Goelett having
married the Duke of Roxburghe. Lady
Granard was Miss Ogden Mills, and
the present hostess of Nuneham Park,
near Oxford, the loveliest riverside home
in the world, was a Miss Burns, of New
York. Pierpont Morgan has Wall Hall in
Hertfordshire, and the Astors (both of whom
are American) continually fill .Cliveden with
their fellow-countrymen. Even the Anglo-
phobic Hearst has a British home —St.
Douat’s, in Wales —and an American, Cap-
tain Roberts, is master of the famous Belvoir
pack, with which the Prince hunts whenever
he can. So many Americans have been
taking shoots in both England and Scotland
of late that rents have about doubled.
* * # *
“C.Q.” : Railway smashes in Vic. are get-
ting gentler. The great Sunshine accident
(1908), when one train ate its way into the
other for 200 yards, killed 44 and
injured 412. The Richmond disaster
(1910) massacred nine and damaged
400. The West Melbourne crash
(1912) killed two and injured 89, and
the Caulfield accident (1926) killed
three. In the latest disaster at Koo-
wee-rup nobody lost the number of his
mess, and most of the injuries came
from flying glass. Railway construc-
tion is tending towards steel and strength,
and Koo-wee-rup ought to hasten the
movement. Of the five carriages involved
four were wooden, and their sides were
stripped like a banana. The steel carriage
was merely scratched.
* *}i * *
“Gad”: “Clifford Snook” is incorrect when
he states that Charles I. was the last
British king on whom a serious operation
was performed (B. 2/l/’29). Edward VII.
was operated on for appendicitis shortly after
his succession, and his condition was so
serious that the wound never healed. It
had to be dressed every day, and this con-
tinued over a period of nine years—until his
death in 1910.
* # * *
“Erua”: The man who never forgets a
face has a nautical counterpart in a Maori-
land pilot, who took a glance at the Eleanor
Bolling, Commander Byrd’s trim little ship,
and pronounced her the one-time Kilmarnock,
one of a class of double-ended trawlers built
for the Admiralty. Finding she was recog-
nised the Eleanor Bolling confessed that
after convoy work in the war she became
the Chelsea and went to America, and was
caught and confiscated as a rum-runner.
Although a tiny ship to brave t.he ice-pack
her carrying capacity astounded the steve-
dores.
* * * *
“Hayband”: Probably the lai-gest gather-
ing of doctors drawn together by one case
took place some years ago at Mooroopna
(Vic.). One Saturday afternoon the young-
est son of Dr. Florance, a well-known medico,
crashed down from a tree, fearfully injuring
skull and brain. Directly the accident was
reported in the Melbourne Herald there was
tinkling ,of telephones in Collins-street; later
the Saturday-afternoon silence of the rail-
way offices was ruptured by an urgent ring.
Next morning at seven a fast special whipped
away from Spencer-street station with over
50 doctors aboard —most of them surprised
to see the others there. The 110 miles were
covered in just under two hours. But even
that array of medical talent couldn’t smooth
the crumpled brain; the case was hopeless
from the outset, and at 4 p.m. Surgeon
Death eased the pain.
* * * *
“Pawang”: A quack who claimed to be
“doctor” of “irido-diagnosis,” “naturopathy”
and “suggestography,” among other things,
appeared at a Melbourne court the other day.
He explained that he qualified for his numer-
ous diplomas by correspondence with the
headquarters of the various cults in U.S.A.,
and he said he had over 200 patients at
the time of arrest. One, a woman, was
found by the police stretched underneath a
2000-c.p. electric globe. She stated that she
was suffering from cancer, and was receiving
“the same treatment as the King.” Euckily
for her, she wasn’t. If the light had been
genuine ultra-violet the quack would probably
have killed her. In any case, the deluded
creature could have got exactly “the same
treatment as the King” for nothing by lying
out in the sun on St. Ivilda beach. Ultra-
violet rays are merely artificial sunlight.
IN DRY NEW YORK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“New York celebrated its wettest New Year’s Eve
since the advent of Prohibition, but after midnight
things became more subdued, squads of police having
raided and closed scores of night-clubs and ‘speak-
easies.’ ” — Cable.
Not for them the Yuletidc capers hallowed
in the “Pickwick Papers” ;
Virtuous by Act of Congress they have
bidden their farewell
To saloons and well-stocked cellars—to the
ale beloved of Wellers
And the steaming punch that Wardle
• ladled out at Dingley Dell.
Yet New York was never wetter since they
clamped the Volstead fetter
On the land where Freedom’s banner glit-
ters brave with stripes and stars,
Till the coppers had descended on the joints
where; hooch was vended
And the wassail was suspended in the sur-
reptitious bars.
Prohibition! Quaint misnomer! Wouldn’t
it have tickled Omar
(Or Fitzgerald) the idea anybody could
suppose
Citizens debarred from wetting whistles when
the year was setting.
Neath the bough would not be getting
stimulants beneath the rose?
Think of Swiveller or Foker, picture Costi-
gan the soaker,
Altamout or Strong, those jovial connois-
seurs of beer and wine,
Anyone at all who hankered for his cus-
tomary tankard
Going dry and parched if anchored in New
York in ’twenty-nine !
Feature Bacchus with his burning revellers
to earth returning,
Bacchus with that mixed entourage Keats
in deathless lines has versed.
With the minimum of duds on—can you see
them by the Hudson
With their flower-wreaths and cymbals
slowly perishing of thirst?
Though saloons be all abolished and dis-
tilleries demolished,
And there’d be no foot-bars polished where
their sandalled soles might rest,
Can’t you vision laughing Venus and the
slightly-shot Silenus
With a cheerful wink inquiring which
speak-easy is the best?
Yes, I know that Rum’s the devil to dis-
credit and dishevel,
And that alcoholic revel takes its toll of
wasted lives,
But while humans hit the flagon and disdain
the water-waggon
Chances are they’ll hit it harder in the
subterranean dives.
There’s a Latin proverb telling nature is
beyond expelling,
She’ll return although you out her with
a three-pronged stable-fork,
And the New Year celebrations clearly didn’t
lack potations
Or traditional libations—even in bone-dry
New York.
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


“Myalla”: The theory that long hair
stunts a woman’s growth (B. 19/12/’2B)
is all moonshine. I knew two women out
back, unrelated, both six-footers and both with
tremendous quantities of light brown hair.
One amazon used to break in all the young
colts for miles round, and could throw a
beast with any man. When her decidedly-
lesser half vexed her she would give him
what she termed “a thundering good ’idin’.”
Many a time I’ve seen her bringing him to
heel with the stockwhip, her “crowning
glory” gradually coming loose in the course
of her exertions, and eventually hanging like
a great tawny shawl to her knees as she
finished the job.
* * * *
“Kerys”: Darlingliurst (Sydney) with its
maze of streets and lanes would seem an
ideal place for a fugitive familiar with its
topography to elude pursuit; yet a youthful
criminal was run down there last week after
one of the stermest chases on record. Having
snatched a handbag from a woman in
Elizabeth Bay-road he started off at full
speed, hotly pursued by sundry residents,
including an athletic dean and a well-known
K.C. who had heard the cry of “Stop
thief!” When the church and the law gave
up the chase, winded, the police had arrived,
and, being in better training, pursued the
fugitive, who had discarded his plunder early
in the hunt, round the tortuous thorough-
fares. They were never far from their
quarry’s brush, and they held on until he
absolutely dropped from exhaustion. It was
computed that the bagsnatcher had covered
a trifle over two miles at a pace that might
have earned him a place in an Olympic team
in happier circumstances.
* * * *
“Kava-Kava”: American prohibition offi-
cials are beginning to complain that it is the
home-made liquor, rather than the smuggled
bootleg stuff, which is rendering their job
a futile one. The trouble, of course, is that
almost everyone is a distiller at heart, and
capable of turning out something with a kick
in it, if the necessity arises. Many years
ago, when the Commonwealth Government
took over Papua, it announced its intention
of banning hard stuff in the Possession. _ The
whole white population signed petitions
against the proposed injustice, but hundreds
dug up or hastily acquired some precious
recipe in case the worst should befall. In
one week, on one of the northern mining
fields, proud inventors proffered to the writer
samples of stimulants compounded from
golden syrup, bananas, sweet potatoes and
A CASE IN POINT.
“My doctor says most wives give their husbands too much to eat.”
“Yes, mine says he’s dreadfully fed up.”
pineapples. The basis of others was kept
a dark secret by the distillers, which per-
haps was just as well. Then, when the stuff
was maturing, came the news that Melbourne
had changed its mind, and Papua was to
remain wet. It got wetter than ever to cele-
brate its escape.
❖ % % tf*
“Gad”: These paragraphs about execu-
tions remind me of one I witnessed in India.
It differed from the British or Australian
process in that two fellow convicts of the
victim launched him into eternity. Warders
refuse to undertake the job in India on
account of caste restrictions. There were
present, beside the operators, only the gaol
superintendent, the doctor, two warders and
myself. The victim was probably the least
embarrassed of the lot. He salaamed cour-
teously to us all, even with his handcuffs on,
and offered no resistance to being hooded.
The whole thing was over in a few minutes,
and one was left astounded that death could
come to a man so easily. The superin-
tendent told me that Indian women gave
more trouble than men on the drop. Not
long before he had to have one dispatched
in a chair, she was unable to stand up.
=!s * * *
“Light Horse”: “Let Go” will be inter-
ested to know that the Light Horse memorial
which is some day to stand on the
banks of the Suez Canal (B. 2/l/’29) is
progressing, however slowly. Three or four
years ago, noting that a very fine bronze in
memory of the Indian troops who had served
in the Sinai-Palestine campaign had been
put in position, the writer made inquiries as
to the Australian memorial. He was informed
that the commission had been placed with the
late Web Gilbert, but that on his death it
was taken over by someone else. There the
matter rests for the present, and the pre-
sumption is that the bronze group is also
resting.
«•» sfc sic A
“Barangkali”: Radio certainly
performs amazing feats, such as
the one recently instanced by
“Listeninsect” (B. 19/12/’28) when
music was retransmitted from Mel-
bourne per medium of the La
Perouse (Sydney) station to Ban-
doeng, in Java, and from that sta-
tion retransmitted back to Sydney.
But it also has some amazing and
almost inexplicable limitations.
Had the above experiment been
conducted with Singapore, 400
miles further north, or with
Penang, the result would have been
a total failure. Between Bandoeng
and Singapore, and again between
Singapore and Penang, there exist
those dead belts which are the bug-
bear of wireless communication.
These areas are worked through
only with great difficulty and at
low speeds, and at times communi-
cation is utterly impossible. While
working the Cocos Island wireless
station, which officially has a range
of only 400 miles, I have frequently
heard Singapore, 1500 miles dis
tant, and Penang (2100 miles) try-
ing to establish communication un-
successfully, although a bare 600
miles separates them, and I have often
relayed messages on for them, both sta-
tions reading me with ease at nearly
three times the distance that separated them
from each other.
* * * #
“C.Q.” : Surely the accident staged by the
ironic dramatist Fate on Christmas Eye
was the most remarkable ever put on in
Victoria. The cause was clarified from the
start by the voluntary admission of a young
porter that he had inadvertently pulled the
wrong lever, thus diverting a mixed train
on to the main line at Koo-wee-rup. The
driver, seeing what was happening, rammed
his brakes on and stopped with a bare six
inches of engine projecting over the other
set of rails just as a packed holiday train
passed at 30 miles an hour. The sides of
four wooden carriages were peeled off as
neatly as if it had been done with a gigantic
chisel, and the crowded interiors laid bare
like a scene in a pantomime. Over 50 people
were hurt, mostly by flying glass and splin-
ters, but only two of them seriously.
* * * *
“Retired Volt” : The heavy sentence passed
on a British ship’s officer by a Court in Por-
tuguese East Africa, which has led to
direct representations being made to the
Lisbon Government, is by no means the first
of its kind. Some years ago a British cable
co. discovered that the superintendent of a
small station in a Portuguese African colony
had borrowed from the cashbox, with intent
to return the loan when his horse came in
first. Without due regard to the vagaries of
Portuguese magistrates when they get a
Britisher into their hands, the company
handed over the culprit to the local authori-
ties. When the sentence was announced it
absolutely staggered the service, where the
unlucky delinquent had hosts of friends. It
was five years’ penal servitude in one of the
most fever-stricken convict settlements in the
Dom’s possessions. A startled London head
office tried to have the penalty mitigated,
but unavailingly. After a couple of years
of diplomatic representations, the prisoner,
broken in health, was transferred to a more
salubrious island, where there was a mess
of his former confreres. Here he wandered
about at partial liberty, a melancholy figure
too apathetic even to listen to the many
romantic schemes propounded by the juniors
for his escape. Malaria shortened his term
by a year or two.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: The lamas of Tibet, accord-
ing to a cable, are trying to stamp out the
growing use of tobacco because its fumes
drive away beneficent spirits and leave the
Tibetan’s soul wide open to sin and his body
to sickness. It is interesting to reflect that
in all parts of the Christian world the
introduction of the soothing weed led to
religious persecution. James One tried to
suppress it by legislation and, that failing,
SO IMPATIENT MEN ARE.
“For Heaven’s sake, don’t be in such a hurry, Herbert. Haven’t I been telling you
for half an hour past that I won’t be longer than five minutes.”
tried a tariff of from 2d. to 6s. lOd. a lb.,
with the same lack of success. Nowadays
most religious denominations have shifted
their attack on an almost universal habit to
its supposed deleterious effects on the health.
But some of the missions in colored lands
still hold the cigarette and sin to be synony-
mous. Falling into converse with a young
Chinaman in a carriage on the Hangchow-
Shanghai railway, I automatically pulled out
my case and offered him a weed. He pulled
himself up as if I had bitten him on the
leg. “Thank you,” he said, “I thought I
told you I was a Christian!”
Ms M= Ms Ms
“X2X”: The addition of crude tar to
methylated spirit will never stop addicts
from drinking it (B. 28/11/’2B). One of
the problems of the Federal Government is
to find a denaturant for industrial tax-free
alcohol which cannot be removed by chemical
or mechanical means, and which will pre-
vent its use as potable spirit. Once methyl
alcohol was used —in addition to its nauseat-
ing taste, its* boiling-point is so close to
that of alcohol that it cannot be extracted
by distillation. But the blend still found
drinkers, and presently a person of scientific
bent devised a chemical method by which
the methyl alcohol could be taken out.
Methyl alcohol was then abandoned in favor
of pyridine, the present denaturant. This
makes the spirit even more horrible to smell
and taste than when it was denatured with
methyl alcohol, but it does not seem to have
noticeably reduced its consumption as a
stimulant. And the Federal authorities have
a very strong suspicion that a large amount
of denatured spirit is being “cleaned” and
resold as rectified spirit, worth about ten
times as much.
Ms * * ,M=
“Hanno”: Perhaps the most remarkable
execution ever carried out in Australia was
one which took place in 1834 on the site
now occupied by the East Sydney Technical
College (formerly Darlinghurst Gaol). The
feature of it was that six men were executed
together on the one rope. The subjects were
bushrangers and assault-and-robbery men,
and as the existing gallows was large, enough
to hang only two at a time a special rope
with six nooses attached to it was made and
the malefactors swung off in a bunch. There
was a large crowd present, and a contem-
porary record states that some of the con-
demned continued to struggle for nearly 20
minutes after the bolt had been drawn. This
excited no adverse comment, however.
m= * * *
“Manar” : I can recall a more remarkable
case of telegenic influence than that quoted
by “A.E.W.” (B. 26/12/’2B). Some years
ago a Sydney girl married a man whose
face was disfigured by a small birth-mark
of the sort generally known as “port-wine
stains,” the shape of the blemish being a
most peculiar one. After two years of a
childless marriage her husband died, and
12 months later she married again. A year
afterwards her first child was born, and
although in features it strongly resembled
the father, it had upon the side of its face
a birth-mark which in size, shape and color
was identical with that borne by the mother’s
previous husband.
* M-- * *
“Tee Essbie”: The Salvation Army may
not yet have roped in a duke among its con-
verts (B. 2/l/’29), but it can boast of at
least one adherent from a titled family. Six
or seven years ago a daughter of the late
Lord Kinnaird, who had seen a few years
service as a local officer, was. appointed a
captain in the Booth organisation.
j}- ♦ '**
“John B.”: Husbands temporarily
estranged from their wives frequently adver-
tise that they won’t be responsible for debts
contracted by their ladies, but the latter don t
always take it lying down. In the New-
castle (N.S.Ww) district the other day an
aggrieved dame came back with the follow-
ing retort: “Mr. need not be afraid of
his wife running him into debt. I worked
before I married him, and am not afraid
to work again.” She was less acid, though,
than a fore-runner in the same town, who
advertised in the local Herald: “Warning
to local publicans and storekeepers, I am no
longer working for my husband, William
Henry Tregonning. (Signed) Mary Jane
Tregonning.”
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: My experience of Aus-
tralian methods of preparing curry and rice
coincides with that of “Feng-Shui” (B.
21/11/’2B) ; the stuff always seems com-
pounded on the same system, whether in city
pub, hash-house, construction-Camp, shearing-
shed or on the track. I am surprised that a
cook of “B.Y.E.’s” experience should in-
sist that in order to keep the grains sepa-
rate the rice must be washed after
boiling and then steamed. When Jimmy Ah
Shin was cooking for me out on the Maranoa
he used to put about two pannikins of water
and one of rice in a billy, clap the lid on and
bring slowly to a boil. As soon as the rice
softened he took the lid off, shifted the billy
a link or' two higher on the chain and left
it until the remaining moisture evaporated.
Cooked in this way it lost none of its nutri-
tive qualities and always turned out in sepa-
rate grains.
* * * *
“Detonator” : The president of the Officers’
Association of Australia announces that 250
Diggers only will be allowed to participate
in the War Pilgrimage de luxe in June—the
cost is £230. Few of the ex-rank-and-file or
relatives of dead Diggers are likely to avail
themselves of this expensive privilege,
especially when they could travel by one-class
boats for less than £lOO return and piifck their
own accommodation ashore.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: Eucla, on the Bight, is taking
a renewed interest in life. It got its first
blow when the route of the Transcontinental
Railway was fixed some distance to the
north of the coast. Its second was the
decision to remove the overland telegraph
inland to preserve it from the salt-sea air.
After this the town became a collection of
empty buildings; but it is bucking up again.
The increasing road traffic between east and
west is the explanation; recently over 70
cars passed through Eucla in a single week.
* * * *
“Oxmead” : “Take it away, get it altered :
it'll do for Tuppy,” said Alfred Jingle in the
“Pickwick Papers” (written nearly a
century ago), tossing over the marriage
license he had procured to enable him to
make Rachel Wardle his wife. Perker, the
lawyer, of course knew it was no good, and
Pickwick (Tupman not being there) pro-
bably doubted if it was any good. But how
hard it is to kill a tradition! East week,
according to the cable, a Maoriland girl
named Sargood, whose taste in bridegrooms
had changed at the last moment, was quite
disagreeably surprised to find that she would
have to pay 545. 6d. for a new license, instead
of being able to utilise the old one with a
crossed-out and substituted name. For all
intents and purposes she was back in 1828.
WEEDIN' MORN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Goin’ to a weddin’ down at Murphy’s,
Got the latest clobber on me frame,
Feelin’ like I’m goin’ kinder crazy,
Gittin’ scared I might forgit me name.
Jim is walkin’ in an’ out an’ jokin’,
Jokin’ jist as funny as a play;
Jane is busy dressin’ up an’ singin’,
Singin’ in a chokin’ sorter way.
Mum is kinder cryin’ soft an’ laughin’.
Laughin’ like it wasn’t “make believe” ;
Dad is either talkin’ loud or whistlin’,
Whistlin’ in a way that don’t deceive.
’Struth, me heart is beatin’ so it’s liurtin’ —-
Hurtin’, but I mustn’t let ’em see.
When the weddin’s over I’ll be happy,
Katie Murphy will be wed to me.
CANBERRA.
TAL ORDELL.
JONAH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Jonah dumped his dunnage down
lie waved farewell to Joppa town.
He saw the gang-plank shipped and lashed
While from the anchor-flukes there flashed
A rainbow arc of jewelled spray.
The tars “Yo-hoed!” She gathered way.
And “Nineveh be blowed,” said he;
“Tartessus is the port for me.”
Outward bound for Tarshish
Over purple seas,
Just to show I mean to go
Where I darn well please.
To Nineveh, so runs the tale,
A passenger inside a whale,
Old Jonah came —as he was told
To do at first. A fable old
And strange? A truth, I dare aver.
For “Tarshish” though you register,
When “Nineveh” is on the chit
You’ll never get away with it.
First saloon for Nineveh;
Not the spot I’d pick,
But Fee got to take my choice?—
Boat, or Moby Dick!
VICTORIA.
WAWHERESH.


■
M
m
i
m
m
: s*-
;:..v ■•
Si
The joyfully anticipated
holiday arrives your
wardrobe is crowded
with a host of lovely
gowns for all occasions
—your hosiery, so much
in evidence, is created
by Prestige to lend dis-
tinction to your perfect
toilette.
(f Jtru _ 'b
c -Australian
Creation
sP
hosiery
jpreetlge
I FULLY FASHIONED
FS


K> l/tofit &,
I
,» * r
it % T *
I “BLUNTON”
The Comfort
Collar.
A stiff collar—popular
peaked style—but with
points rounded to prevent
rubbing through your
shirts. Cool —lightweight
and curved in front to
stand out from the neck.
Perfect fit and easy pas-
sage of your tie are
guaranteed!
An “Arrow” Collar
1/9 each; 20/- doz.
ENGAGEMENT RINGS
€2O
vi..
SBJ
€2O
£2O
nnci
€2O
SOME OF OUR NEWEST DIAMOND DESIGNS
PLAIN
FIGURES
FAT RFAX /•,"ROBERTS L TD
A INU
HSV3
25-25 HUNTER ST.
7fuo (Didos tlotMSQ uzSudnetr
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, O.S.L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonwealth.
Cable and Telegraphic Address;
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Oscar Lines, who succeeded Russell French
as general manager of the Bank of N. S.
Wales seven years ago, returns to England
—he was there for two years as manager—to
go on the London board of directors. A. C.
Davidson becomes general manager. Lines,
born at Adelaide, is rising 68; Davidson, a
W. B. TAVERNER, Minister of Railways
and Customs in the new Ward Govern-
ment in Maoriland.
native of Brisbane (he was grounded at Bris-
bane Grammar School), is only 46. The new
man was in Westralia for three years, and
his rapid rise is largely the result of his
work in connection with the absorption of
the Westralian bank by the Wales. His
appointment seems to be popular with the
staff. Lines, though sound, didn’t arouse
much enthusiasm among his lesser colleagues.
J. T. Collins, the Vic. Parliamentary
draftsman, who was 65 in Nov., has had his
term extended until May. He will relin-
quish a salary of £l5OO p.a. for super-
annuation of £312 p.a. when he goes out.
Collins is a K.C.; his hobby is etching.
Poet Bernard O’Dowd, who draws £1250
p.a., is next in command to Collins, but is
in his 63rd year.
A. J. Tulton, a 12th Battalion Digger, re-
turned to Tas. with the right leg amputated
below and the left leg above the knee. His
native town, Franklin, presented him with a
car, and, determined to fend for himself, he
became the owner of a big passenger ’bus,
which he drove daily over the difficult Huon-
road to Hobart. On Christmas Day the
plucky fellow had his first mishap for ten
years—and his last. The steering-gear failed,
the 'bus got out of control, and poor Tulton
was thrown out and killed. Nobody else was
scratched.
Something new in mining men is M. Mus-
tard, who combines the direction of the
Guinea Goldmining Co. with the job of
its chief pilot. Mustard departed recently
from Point Cook
(Vic.) in a Junker
W 34 all-metal sea-
plane, the only one
of its plumage in
Australia; the
machine will be
used to carry
stores, merchandise
and astonished
Papuans from the
coast to the co.’s
field in under an
hour. Owing to
the spiked nature
of the scenery the
journey per foot
takes over a week.
A similar machine
has already proved
its value in 12
months’ use.
J. S. MAC-
DONALD, the
new director of
the New South
Wales National
Art Gallery, took
over his job this
week.
There is at least one bishop in Australia
who has played against an Australian eleven
in England. This is the Right Rev. Cecil
Wilson, who wears the gaiters at Bunbury
(W.A.), the birthplace of John Forrest. The
Bishop found time in his youth, in the inter-
vals of theological... and , other studies, to
captain Tonbridge School, a famous nursery
of cricket, and Jesus College, Cambridge, and
though he never got his ’Varsity blue he
played intermittently for Kent for several
seasons in the ’eighties. ,
Gone west, at 80, Jack Bruce, known as
the father of Murray Island. He taught
there for 40 years, and was “Baba” to
the natives of the group; he showed them
how to build “white man” boats and houses,
explained the intricacies of trade, guarded
them against wily Asiatics, and guided their
youngsters into civilised ways. The old man’s
services were so valuable that the Queensland
Aborigines Department twice refused to
accept his resignation. Haddon, on his Cam-
bridge Anthropological Expedition, stayed
with Bruce, and has expressed his gratitude
for gifts from the patriarch’s vast store of
island lore. Bruce was honored in the Far
North by whites, blacks, browns and yellows
alike.
Australia may have another explorer pot-
tering about the Antarctic before long, for
Douglas Mawson is thinking of going south
again. Mawson was only 25 when lie helped
Shackleton to discover the South Magnetic
Pole in 1907-08, and he led an expedition of
his own in 1912-14. A brilliant product of
Sydney Uni., he has been Prof, of Geology
and Mineralogy at Adelaide Uni. since 1921.
His wife is a daughter of G. I). Delprat, so
long general manager of the Broken Hill
Prop.
General-manager Henry Buckleton has just
notched his half-century in the service of the
Bank of New Zealand. Son of George G.
Buckleton, journalist, he joined the Sydney
branch in 1878 and remained there till 1891,
crossing to Maoriland, after a year in Mel-
bourne, in May, 1892. While manager at
Auckland, Buckleton recommended the
employment of women in banks, and has
never repented of it. “Since 1915. the men
of the service have had their working hours
brightened by the companionship of many
charming young women,” he gallantly said
to the staff when handed a portrait of himself
in oils.
Captain Newman, who used to be super-
intendent of the training-ship John Murray,
has been selected from 230 applicants for the
managership of Lake Tyers (Vic.) abo.
station. He will find the job no sinecure, but
will be the only boss. When being examined
by the Abo. Board as to his fitness, Newman
said, among other things, that he would have
the launch put in proper order so that it
could be used advantageously on the lake.
“That would be pleasant for the manager,”
remarked a member drily. “And for the
board when it comes down,” added Newman
without batting an eyelid.
The action of a Westralian made it pos-
sible for a London hospital to claim a for-
tune the other day. Noticing in a news-
paper that the institution had to collect
£35,000 before the dawn of 1929 in order
to obtain a similar amount from an anony-
mous donor, he walked into the hospital
and told the officials that he would make up
any deficit up to £lOOO. The amount was
£633, and after writing a cheque for the
amount the visitor walked away, refusing to
supply his address. He was Charles McNess,
who began with a small tinsmith’s shop in
Perth, and ended by owning some of the
finest properties in the place.
The Rothschild family has had two more
personal tragedies added to its story by the
suicide in Paris of Baroness Rothschild,
widow of a banker of the German branch
of the clan, and of her son Hans de Moser
Rothschild. Hans ruined first himself and
then his mother by his spendthrift habits,
and bailiffs came to remove the furniture.
While they were busy the Baroness and her
son retired to a bedroom, where veronal
wrote “Finis” to their chapter.
Justice Cusscn, of the Vic. Supreme Court
Bench, will have to take his 12 months’ leave
in two bites (February and March, and then
from Nov. to Aug. of next year), for the
Ilogans, before going out of office, arranged
to let Mann, J., off from April 1 to Oct. 31.
Wasley, of the County Court Bench, will con-
tinue to act in the Supreme Court, as he
lias been doing for more than a year. Cus-
sen has been 22 years on the Bench.
A very unusual member of the A.I.F. was
Sergeant F. Nassoor, who has died suddenly
at Narrabri (N.S.W.). Son of a District
Governor in Lebanon, he came to Australia
in 1907, and was in business with relatives
in Sydney till he enlisted in the 7th Light
Horse. Nassoor served in Sinai and Pales-
tine, where his knowledge of the country and
its languages got him appointed to the intel-
ligence section at Anzac Mounted Division
headquarters, and after the Armistice he was
transferred to the political section of Im-
perial Intelligence at Beyrout. He was only
47 when the end came.
John Longstaff got little encouragement to
cultivate his talent for painting till he went
to work at the Sargood warehouse in Mel-
bourne. Frederick Sargood—sometime Vic.
Minister and Commonwealth Senator —dis-
covered the youth’s gift, paid his Melbourne
Gallery fees, and arranged for him to have
time off for study. The old softgoods man
lived to see his protege with an established
reputation. January 2 was the 26th anni-
versary of Sargood’s death.
Seddon had a penchant for appointing able
trade-union presidents or secretaries to be offi-
cers of the M.L. Labor Department. One of his
best selections was Pat Hally, who has been
a successful ’adjuster of' industrial difficul-
ties for over a quarter of a century. He doesn’t
come into the limelight at all, being merely
a Conciliation Commissioner, but the num-
ber of cases in which the Arbitration Court
lias endorsed an “award by agreement” due
to the exercise of Hally’s talents of dip-
lomacy and good humor must run into many
hundreds. Recently interviewed, for the first
time in his official career, he said he thought
the relations between employers and workers
in Fernland were every day and in every
way getting better and better.
Thomas Newthwaite Grainger, dead in
M.L., made Australian history in his time.
He was the marine surveyor who refused,
30-odd years ago, to give the Atacama a sea-
going certificate. The owners eventually got
a Government shipwright to oblige them, and
the Atacama foundered when a few days out
of Port Jackson. The Bulletin’s stric-
tures on the law which made such a tragedy
possible landed it in one of the biggest libel
actions Australia had known. The paper
v/on —on Grainger’s evidence. Mr. Grainger
was best known, apart from the part he
played in the campaign against the coffin-
ship industry, as the man who got the
wrecked French sailing-ship Vincennes off
Manly beach in the long ago. A son did
brilliant work in the World War as O.C. an
A.I.F. howitzer battery.
For the second time a Maoriland Rabbi
has collected the distinction of “Morenu” (a
teacher in authority). Van Stavern in 1927
had the honor conferred on him by Britain’s
Chief Rabbi, Dr. Hertz, on completing his
50th yea'r as a minister: now Dr. Hertz has
handed the title to Aaron Samuel Goldstein,
Auckland’s Hebrew guide, formerly of Too-
woomba (Q.) and Maitland (N.S.W.). Gold-
stein is heading for the 50th year of his
pastorate at Auckland.
Years ago C. J. Handley was clerk of petty
sessions at T.I. and Jeff Clay was in the
National Bank. Putting their heads together,
they hired two luggers from Hocking and set
saii for the Torres Strait islands. The idea
of two clerks tackling pearling tickled the
hardboiled shelters ; but before long the ink-
slingers had paid for the boats, bought others,
and were operating in New Guinea. Lowden,
of Moresby, came into the partnership, a
little trading steamer was added to the fleet,
and a salvage job swelled the rising for-
tunes of the company. Handley and Clay
have never looked back.
The passing of E. F. (“Ernie”) Lord has
left Queensland the poorer for a good citizen
and a fine personality. One of a family
which has bulked big in the pastoral life of
the State, he was educated at Brisbane
Grammar School, where he was a notable
runner and footballer. He succeeded his
father, for years M.L.A. for Stanley, as owner
of Eskdale station on the upper Brisbane
River, one of the show places of Queensland.
He was a generous contributor to party
funds, but he never tried his luck at an election
contest, though he could doubtless have
become member for his district, a safe Oppo-
sition constituency. Neither did he seek glory
as an owner of racehorses, though lie was a
member of the Q.T.C. committee.
Vic. Premier McPherson has succeeded the
late George Swinburne, M.L.C., as president
of the big tech, school at Glenferrie. Swin-
burne founded the school and put a few
thousands of his own money into it; and it
is his monument. McPherson has also helped
with a thousand or so. The council tried
to induce Mrs. Swinburne, who is very in-
tellectual as well as being a business woman,
to take the presidency, but she wouldn’t.
As far as The Bulletin knows, Arthur
Rae is the only member of the Federal Par-
liament who knows anything of gaol-life
from practical experience. Away back in
the misty past he was one of the pioneers
of the bush unions, and it was easy to get
into gaol for bush organising in those days.
Incidentally, he helped to run the Hummer,
one of the first Labor papers in Australia.
His reward came in 1891, when he was
elected M.L.A. for Murrumbidgee—George
Dibbs was one of his colleagues. That was
three years before the big Labor wave car-
ried Sleath and Ferguson and one or two
other ex-strike prisoners into Parliament
along with Chris Watson and the rest. Thus
Rae’s Parliamentary life began three years
before J. C. Watson’s- —and he seems to
belong to the days of the Flood or there-
abouts.
Rev. James Wagg, Victoria’s oldest Angli-
can clergyman, recently celebrated his ninety-
first birthday. He was ordained by Dr.
Perry, first Bishop of Melbourne, in 1868.
But for length of service he is second to Rev.
H. W. H. Adeney, who was ordained in
1859. The oldest still-officiating parson is
Rev. Alfred Caflin, who began his clerical
career 53 years ago; he is 85.
lAN MACFARLAN, Vic.’s new Attorney-
General.
“Knib” : Rapid as was the rise of Mac-
farlan to the Vic. Attorney-Generalship, it
was not as quick as that of Agar Wynne.
Macfarlan was in the Assembly, between
six and seven months when he was handed
the Law portfolio; Wynne had just become
an Assembly man when Bowser snapped
him. Of course Wynne was then a veteran
Parliamentarian, having served in the Vic.
Uppah Chambah and the House of Reps.,
and been a Minister in each; but he
made his first appearance in the Assembly as
Attorney-General-designate, and was sworn
in as a Minister a day or two afterwards.
Wynne had a narrow escape from getting
the leadership of a Government in 1918-19.
THE PRODIGAL SON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘‘Mr. J. S. Garden, secretary of the Sydney Labor
Council, has been readmitted to the Australian Labor
party, after having served a sentence of four years’
expulsion for opposing endorsed Labor candidates
in 1925. Conflicting views are expressed about his
reappearance, the gen. secretary of the A.W.U.
regarding it as a calamity for the Labor cause.”
The sheep that strayed, and was cursed for
blaclt, returns to the Labor fold;
The heir is back in tbc Old Man’s shack, like
the Prodigal Son of old :
But nobody knows for sure how far the
parallel will hold.
Did he tire of the husks in troughs and pine
again for food on plates?
Did his soul revolt at the hungry swine they
gave him for table mates,
He who might have stayed and stood next in
line for a hunk of Dad’s estates?
Did they see him coming, a tattered wreck,
from a far-off alien land
And hasten to fall upon his neck and wring
him by the hand?
Did they greet him back from the wallaby
track with fireworks and a band?
Did Macdonell House make a brave display
of all the flags in stock? •
Did a thousand lungs beef out “Hooray!” and
bellow “Welcome/ Jock !”
Or stuck on the doormat did he stay till
somebody heard liis knock?
Were there tender cutlets whereon to sup,
fresh-cut from a fatted calf?
Did they fill brim-high a loving cup and hand
it him to quaff?
Now who was it said “Too right they did!”
and who was it growled “Not ’alf!” ?
Well, one is back from his wanderings, and
perhaps a cannier one,
From the husks and the swine and the other
things, his wild adventures done.
And lie may—who knows?—be as fortunate
as Scripture’s Prqdigal Son.
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


THE KINDNESS OF ARBITRATION COURTS.
Poverty
Points
“Spokeshave”: Viewed in a detached
spirit, what an extraordinarily crude attempt
at juvenile entertainment the pantomime
has become ! Jazz ditties about negro amours
sung by ladies far past their bloom; “speci-
alty” dances on the familiar barnyard theme;
allusions, invariably derogatory and usually
smutty, to courtship, marriage and child-
birth ; jokes mainly about beer. It is not
the Hugh Loftings or the James Barries or
the Lewis Carrolls of the stage who give the
kids their Christmas glimpse of the charm-
ing world of make-believe. It is the Stiffys
and Mos of vaudeville, the stale hacks of
the ’alls. If books for children were writ-
ten in the same strain as the libretti of the
pantomimes we give them, what an uproar
there would be!
“Goldilocks”: The theatrical mind is illu-
minated by all sorts of bright ideas. One
that struck the manager of a small touring
show recently was to star his bills with
names which could not fail to stir memories
of greatness in the least well-informed. His
programmes showed that he had gathered
together a galaxy that included David Gar-
rick, James Matthews, Charles Keane, G.
Itignold, Letty Lind and others as notable;
but, alas, the company returned broke. In
only one town was any curiosity aroused by
the' illustrious names; an inquirer wanted to
see David Garrick. “I knew a bloke on the
North Coast who was cow-cockying, but was
fond of recitin’,” he said. “His name was
Davey Garrick, an’ I thought it might be
’im.”
“D.”: The ape at Sydney Grand Opera
House recently broke its chain and attacked
one of the pantomime girls. The manage-
ment might take the hint and dispense with
an animal turn which, whatever its- merits,
is about the most unpleasant that has been
seen here. One of the ape’s tricks is to
bare its immense fangs at the dogs of the
show, while they bare their fangs and yelp
at him. He is hyppotised, and the act is
hideously realistic. Everything in this
animal turn may be done by kindness, though
the thing is not easy to believe; but from the
beginning, when the director of it produces
three newly-born pups from his shirt, to the
end, when a small monkey jumped 100 feet
or so from the roof to be caught in its
master’s left hand, I found it so nauseating
that I left with the intention of joining one
of those societies whose members are pledged
never to patronise a theatre where trained
animals are featured.
“Fade-Out” : Touching on that enterpris-
ing Yankee cameraman who photographed a
talkie of King George and has been trying
to sell it to English showmen at a big figure,
quite a lot of famous men of the. world have
already been the subjects of talking pictures.
George Bernard Shaw has made one in which
he gives a humorous impersonation of Mus-
solini. Every film critic in America is urging
the public to see it.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) : When Melba sang in
“La Boheme” at the Old Vic. she took with
her one of the minor conductors from Covent
Garden. This greatly offended permanent
O.V. conductor Charles Corri, but time has
brought him a measure of appeasement. The
other day Puccini’s opera was given at the
historic house on the Surrey-side, and again
the Mimi was an Australian singer—Wilma
Berkeley. The theatre was packed; many
were unable to secure admission, and the
enthusiasm rose to fever heat. There were
many recalls for the principals and Charles
Corri, and several of the critics gave him
credit for the best operatic performance ever
given at the Old Vic. Wilma Berkeley’s
Mimi was very pleasant to look at, and the
“elusive wistfulness” of her voice and. the
sensitive intelligence of her singing, especially
in the first and third acts, were worthy of
the appreciation she received. Another Aus-
tralian native is down for a musical debut at
the Old Vic.; Marie Lohr, who has a very
pretty voice and is a sound musician, will
be Mother Earth in Clemence Dane’s
“Adam’s Opera,” which is to have a month’s
run. It is listed as a tragic pantomime
based on the Sleeping Beauty and set to
music by Richard Adinsell. Miss Lohr’s
appearance in a musical part is of keen
interest to the West End stage world, where
she is very much liked and admired.
“Val-nal”: “Manar” (B. 2/l/’29) will
have to go back further than 1920 for the
original idea of the talkies. Meynell and
Gunn put on a talkie show at the Melbourne
Athenaeum as long ago as 1902. It was a
made-in-Australia masterpiece, and its lead-
ing feature Was a singing, talking and danc-
ing scene by Hugh Ward and the Florodora
Sextet. Failure to synchronise the voice
with the picture spoiled it; the spectacle of
Hugh Ward shaping his mouth to form the
words he had spoken five seconds before was
ludicrous beyond description. It’s probable
that the original talkie followed hard upon
the original movie, and that’s more than 30
years ago.
“Cine Ma”: The talkies (B. 26/12/’2B)
lack more than relativity. They are incap-
able of absolute synchronisation. Light being
a faster traveller than sound, if noise and
action are adjusted to come together in the
front stalls, they will be out of step for the
back of the theatre, and vice versa. This, of
course, is also so for flesh-and-blood per-
formances to a small extent; the movies
having to be potted and unpotted, the effect
with them is doubled.
“Wang” : The talkie film is no new thing,
for more than 20 years ago I saw one at
Melbourne Tivoli. It wasn’t terribly con-
vincing, I’ll admit, but it was regarded by
those who saw it as a rather wonderful
achievement and a decided improvement on
what had a great vogue in those days, the
illustrated song. As far as I can remember,
the talkie was a song called “Walking Out
with Angeline.” A masculine figure stalked
backwards and forwards across the screen;
face turned slightly towards the audience,
and the machine behind must have kept pace
with him, for the synchronisation of the
singer’s lips and the music was well nigh
perfect.
“Maski”: The Sydney Sundry Showman
guessed accurately when he suggested (B.
26/12/’2B) that “Milne had simply plagiar-
ised the Vanbrugh” for his grass-widow in
“Belinda.” The comedy was actually written
about Irene Vanbrugh’s stage personality and
technique. So were Pinero’s “Trelawney of
the Wells” and “The Gay Lord Quex,” Bar-
rie’s “The Admirable Crighton” and “Rosa-
lind” and Somerset Maugham’s “The Land
of Promise” and “Caroline.”
“Monte de Cert”: A couple of Poverty-
Pointers have lately bewailed the deteriora-
tion of the circus—they blamed different
things, but agreed that the circus simply
isn’t what it used to be. The answer, of
course, is the old Punch one, that it never
was. I have seen Wirths’ and other good
shows when sober and more-or-less since
passing 30, but the best of them has not
measured up to one I saw in a cow-infested
N.S.W. paddock donkey’s years ago. I recall
hearing at the time that it was a wretched
show, and that the circus was not what it
used to be.
“Last of the Barnstormers”: Boucicault
suddenly discovers that the quality of the
drama is declining, but he did not publish
the discovery until his retirement _ from the
stage (at least, in Australia) is imminent.
His discovery was probably forced on him
by the fact that the plays he brought with
him were not Australian successes. If, as
he says, there are no real dramatists in
Australia, the obvious retort is that there
cannot he dramatists without a theatre, and
there is no theatre for the Australian play-
wright. Of Boucicault’s dramatist gods the
chief, Barrie, the pap merchant, has never
drawn much Australian money. It is some-
thing in favor of the Australian that he
will not eat Barrie’s spoon-meat, and that
such purveyors of froth and chopped straw
as Coward and the perpetrator of “Thark'’
and “Rookery Nook,” he pays with absence
from the theatre. Lonsdale is not, much
better, although he is a stronger drawing-card.
Maugham is probably the only man in the
lot who is really alive. The Australian play-
goer is slightly better informed and of
slightly higher intelligence than the mass of
theatre audiences in countries of a lower
educational standard, such as Britain and
America. But he, too, hates to be asked to
think; and so with him as with other
peoples, the play success is simple enter-
tainment or loud “musical” comedy noises or
sexual titillation. If the drama lias notice-
ably declined only in recent years as Bouci-
eault believes, it is because audiences are
mentally lazier —the pianola and the gramo-
phone and the radio and the moving-picture
have made them so. But that shouldn’t apply
to the writers for the stage; and Coward
and the “Thark” merchants are writing the
best they know, and are just level with their
public. If you can’t believe that of the
British dramatist, look at the work of the
British novelist —piffle, wind, froth and
chopped straw.
“Prog” : The most bitter complaint I have
heard over possible effects of the talkies
came from the doorkeeper of a down-town
Sydney movie-house. “Soon as we open
every mornin’,” he said, “about 20 —men
an’ women—-pay their ninepence an’ go in.
What for?” he demanded suddenly. “To have
a sleep. D’you think they’ll come here when
we go in for the talkies? No fear. They’ll
go to the Paladium —its boss reckons he
wouldn’t have the talkies on his mind.”
“Cine Ma”: How are the talkie people
going to deal with censored material? If
dialogue is excised something will have to
be said in its place to preserve con-
tinuity. The interpolated voice will have
to closely resemble the original speaker’s,
or the effect will be idiotic. But that
is only half the problem. The lips photo-
graphed on the film will still be uttering
the proscribed passage. The average movie
fan is a skilled lipreader, and for him the
actor will still be saying “Blanky” whatever
the censors have ordered otherwise.
“C.R.”: When the Firm substituted gramo-
phone for orchestra at Muriel Starr’s open-
ing in Hobart it struck immediate opposi-
tion. The Musicians’ Union declared the
Theatre Royal black, and the front-of-the
house staff walked out, followed within
24 hours by the sceneshifters. The co.
carried on with volunteers while the Firm
endeavored to soothe Hobart’s feelings by
telling it that Melbourne had accepted the
change without complaint. Which is true
to the extent that nobody has yet worked
himself up to the point of throwing a brick
at the place where the orchestra ought to be.
TALKIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Talkies,” he growled, and paused to mop a
tear
That otherwise had fallen in his beer,
“Our doom they herald!
Talkies! The word reminds you, does it not.
Of certain curtain lectures Caudle got,
As told by Jerrold?
“Lo! Shadowy forms where once live actors
trod,
Canned smiles and frowns, filmed gestures.
Now, good God!
They tin the lingo.
Soon, it is clear, the Thespian art must die,
Aye, perish off the earth. ’Tis obvious, by
The living Jingo!
“What need of Irvings and what call for
Trees
Or queenly Siddonses in times like these” —
He took a moody
Pull at his beer, and grabbed some counter
lunch—
“ When public taste runs to a kind of Punch
And sort of Judy?
“Robots,” he sighed, “in this degenerate age
Can take a Garrick’s place upon the stage.”
His tone grew glummer.
“Write on my tomb,” he said, “ ‘Here lies
old Jim
Who left a world where was no place for
him,
Being a mummer.’ ”
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


THE
NEW
rcieicAicE
you DON’T HEAD IT START - * y©U DON’T HEAD IT STOD
you DON’T HEAD IT DUN
p|i
HI
ii
f\
■4
m
«*
&
NEW FRIGIDAIRE MODEL V 5
This is an ideal model for the
average household. Its refrigerating
space of 5 cubic feet is ample for a
big store of foodstuffs.
With an icy, dry temperature always
well below 45 degrees, this New
Frigidaire keeps foods “fresher,
colder, longer” than any icechest.
Attractive terms may be arranged.
All New Frigidaire models have
Chrome-plated fittings, satin finish,
and are lined with seamless White
Porcelain Enamel. Shelves are
removable, and are arranged to
eliminate stooping.
THE NEW Frigidaire introduces a new era in electric refrigeration. It brings improvements that place
it still further ahead of any other kind of home refrigeration.
Incredibly quiet operation—greater cabinet beauty and convenience—surplus refrigeration power—
this is the NEW Frigidaire. Behind this remarkable refrigerator is the experience gained in building
more than 750,000 Frigidaires in the world’s largest electric refrigator factory. Two hundred
Research Engineers with the accumulated experience of many years have collaborated in its production
—neither time nor money has been spared—and only the immense resources of General Motors could
make such quality available at the prices quoted.
Make no refrigerator choice till you have inspected the NEW Frigi-
daire. It is here in various sizes, suitable for every home—and you
may purchase any model on attractive terms. Inspect at our Show-
rooms, or fill in your name and address below, and post to us for full
particulars.
NAME
ADDRESS ,
DISTRIBUTORS:
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 307-15 Kent Street, Sydney.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 380-82 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
WARBURTON, FRANKI, LTD., 233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 172-74 Pulteney Street, Adelaide.
STEWART & MACLEAN PTY., LTD., 104 George Street, Launceston.
1
a
IIIIIIIIUIIUU
IIIIIIIUIIUIU
IIIUIIIIIIUHIIIIIUII
iiiiimiiumi
llllllllllllllll
IIIIIIHIIIIIItl
IIIIIIIIMIIIIIIHIIIII
PRODUCT OF GENERAL MOTORS.


ca
Direct &/
Intercommun-
-icating
Phones in
all'Bedrooms
ILJbsu-
m
[ Its complete appointments
include Ladies’ Drawing Room,
Music and Writing Rooms, and
Gentlemen’s Smoking, Writing Rooms
and Lounge. Electric fires in all
bedrooms. “Scott’s” is convenient to
Railway Stations, Passenger Steam- j
ship Wharves, and all
places of public interest.
WRITE FOR TARIFF CARD
Telegrams and Cables:
“Scottsotel, Melbourne”
’Phone: Central 9011
(10 lines)
SCOTT’S HOTEL
Collins St., Melbourne
5.30
mi
/utftAft'
"After an
there’s only
ONE 'Australia’ ”
Every detail of service and conven-
ience is anticipated in this great hotel
with the world-famous name. Write
for beautifully illustrated folder if you
are thinking of coming to Sydney.
Telegraphic, Wireless and Cable Address:
"Austraotel, Sydney.”
SDF
(Capital Paid-up, £422,100)
The Hotel
oi the Commonwealth,
Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Vagabond King”
Criterion “The Patsy”
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “The Desert Song”
Royal “Other Men’s Wives”
New Comedy “Scandal”
King’s Nicola
Athenaeum •. “The Wrecker”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
♦
To-night (Wednesday) at Sydney Royal
Irene Vanbrugh and Dion Boucicault sing
Australia their swan song. The tune is “Mr.
Pim Passes By,” and, as it is comparatively
unimportant, it might as well be disposed
of first, and briefly.
It is a three-act comedy by A. A. Milne,
about as robust as the shadow of a political
promise. Mr. Pim, a doddering old chap
(Dion Boucicault), agitates the home of
George Marden, an English country gentle-
man (J. B. Rowe), and his wife, an ex-
widow (Irene Vanbrugh), by implying that
the earlier husband still lives. That hus-
band, a forger, was reported in the papers
several years before as dead, and on that
evidence the ex-widow had re-married. Mar-
den, who 'has just taken a very paterish stand
where the hearts of his ward (Rowena
Ronald) and her lover (Ronald Ward) are
concerned, continues to stand firmly upon
conventions —there must be a nullity
suit, a divorce, a re-marriage. Then Mr.
Pim returns and happens to mention that
the man he spoke of lately died of a fishbone.
There is much relief and a little hysteria,
but the position, is not yet satisfactory, for,
obviously, Marden and the widow have been
living together without legal sanction —in
fact, until quite recently their affair has
been bigamous. However, the thought of
losing the woman of whom he is very fond
lias brought Marden down off his conventions,
and when Mr. Pim again returns to explain
that through a sort of association of ideas
lie had mixed the names slightly and that, in
fact, he had never heard of the former hus-
band until that day, the play is pretty well
over. It remains only for Marden to
sanction the union of the youngsters.
Packed thus into a few sentences the
thing actually seems to have solidity, but it
must be remembered that this plot substance
is spread out over three acts, so that it be-
JOSEPHINE WILSON, helping “The Wrecker” to thrill Mel-
bourne Athenaeum audiences.
comes as insubstantial as gossamer. It is
as charming, too —Milne nearly always is—
but still it has to be admitted that the
best of it was never written. For the very
best one has to wait —not without just a
little patience at times —until the last act.
when J. B. Rowe’s brilliant piece of acting
without words- —revealing a changing of
mental character —makes amends for every-
thing, even for the fact that Dion Bouci-
cault has been strainingly inaudible and that
Irene Vanbrugh, just for once, has been
rather lifeless. Miss Vanbrugh may be ex-
cused ; hers is a rather lifeless portion. Dion
Boucicault’s character acting, too, is the best
performance of his this Showman has seen,
even though he has heard him to worse ad-
vantage never. Miss Ronald is just a trifle
patchy; she acts wonderfully in places and
not so wonderfully in between. But she is
a child in this company, and she gives
remarkable promise.
So we come to the swan song. Australia
has known Dion Boucicault as a good actor,
a brilliant producer and a picturesque stage
personality for a great many years. He was
here in 1885 on a visit that, stretched
out until 1896, and he was here again in
1923. Pretty nearly 50 years about the
boards altogether, and how well he wears!
And the Vanbrugh! The actress of charm,
the miracle of good taste. She was here
in 1890 —let the rest go. The swan song is a
duet, and they sing it to-night. One sup-
poses the stage will be heaped with flowers —
and how soon they fade! Memory lasts a
little longer, but only a little where it links
with players. There is nothing substantial
about them. A Garrick lives through a
Boswell, but only because he is incidental in
a canvas. Some playwrights live also as
players, but only because that is incidental
to their plays. What of their companions,
and betters, of the boards? They strut their
little hour, sing their swan song, and there’s
an end. So Irene Vanbrugh and Dion Bouci-
cault go, and. though we regret their going,
what really concerns us is who will replace
them ?
The Melbourne Showman being incapaci-
tated by a severe attack of rum omelette,
the Office Flapper goes to the play:—
I went to see “Scandal” —I mean I went
to see Leon Gordon in “Scandal” at Mel-
bourne Comedy the other day. My dear,
so dated, quite early Victorian, almost Shak-
spearean in fact. Just imagine for yourself.
May Collins gets mixed up with a portrait
painter, a very bad portrait painter, too,
not a patch on Billy Melnnes, judging by
his work, and in "order to get out of a scrape
announces (falsely) that she has secretly
married Leon Gordon, who belongs to the
don’t-telligentsia apparently, because 'he
acquiesces in the scheme and even accom-
panies her to the family seat for the wedding
night.
Well, it seems that he is a caveman in
disguise, and no sooner has the family gone
to bed than he insists on his convivial rites.
Any girl who couldn’t face a simple situa-
tion like that and
twist a man like
Pelham Frank! yn
round her little
finger, leaving
enough over for a
couple of knots,
simply doesn’t de-
serve to survive in
a motoring age.
Add to that that
May Collins looks
the sort of girl who
really has room for
heart, lungs, liver,
kidneys and other
requisite organs
above the waist-
line, and ought to
be able to knock
any unwelcome sui-
tor around the
room. Well, con-
ceive of my sur-
prise when, after a
brief struggle, she
weakly accedes. Of
course, as soon as
she does a thing
like that, he flings
the door-key in her
face and betakes
hims e 1 f to his
lonely bachelor
couch.
Well, the next
thrill is the honey-
moon, perfectly
chaste, of course,
with Mr. Gordon
offering to get mar-
ried and then pro-
vide grounds for
divorce, a reason-
able proposition, I
thought, and Miss
Collins refusing,
the reason being
that now she really
loves him but
wants him to voluntarily go down on his
knees and risk bagging his trousers simply
to gratify her wounded pride, which he
eventually does.
Well, no doubt you’ll be surprised, but
the audience lapped it up like ice-cream,
and when I looked at it, I mean the audi-
ence, I understood why. They were all over
40 to a woman and all dreaming of the dear
dead days beyond repair when they might
have been proposed to by a Leon Gordon
armed with a stone axe, a cruel, lascivious
smile and a deep, mournful voice suggestive
of a great secret sorrow or of tonsils re-
moved in early youth.
But I can’t imagine any modern girl get-
ting a kick out of it, not in these days of
companionate marriage and all that sort of
thing, can you?
* * *
Described as a Fuller panto., “Beauty and
the Beast,” at Melbourne Palace, is basic-
ally the peripatetic
show which has
been earning their
bread and butter
for those veteran
e n t r e p r eneurs
O’Donnell and Ray
for some 10 years
past. With O’D-
and R. pantomime
is a whole-time in-
dustry which keeps
them moving and
employed all the
year round. One
of the principal
cities is selected
for the grand spec-
tacular opening at
the appropriate
season, and then
the company goes
on tour. The
Christmas festival
gets further and
further away from
Dec. 25, and then,
although appa-
rently still hasten-
ing in the same
direction, the firm
starts approaching
it again, owing to
a phenomenon
peculiar to calen-
dars. Thus some
towns get their
Yuletide entertain-
ment round about
Easter, As an-
other New - Year
blooms there is a
furbishing -up of
scenery, a reshuf-
fling of portfolios,
a looking-up of
gags ancient
enough to pass as
new, and the re-
decorated outfit,
having acquired a fresh title, starts on its
rounds again.
The present production is vaudeville, inter-
rupted occasionally by the artesian voice of
William Innes, as Malvino, a demon who
loves Evil, hates Good and would gladly kill
Beauty if he could (evidently a town coun-
cillor). Beauty is Rene Dixon. Nellie Kolle
is a principal boy of great experience. Bert
Ray is the Dame, and there are some grace-
ful ballets by 20 Melbourne girls. The show
is well worth juvenile patronage at the
prices asked.
* * *
The Melb. Playhouse panto, is an even
simpler contrivance than the Palace enter-
prise, but it is a good deal more entertaining,
owing to the presence in it of Joe Brennan’s
Dame. Joe has been Darning for so long that
it must be hard for him sometimes to remem-
ber whether he wants his hairdresser to give
him a shingle or a shave. He is one of the
few comedians who. employ successfully the
hoary device of making their juvenile hearers
join in the responses, and the hearty way they
do it at the Playhouse helps to fill in some
of the more obvious gaps in a show which
presents only a statement on the programme
as evidence that it is the “Drury Lane ver-
sion” of “Dick Whittington and His Cat.”
Ida Newton squeezes hcrsulf into 'the
tights appropriate to a hero who qualifies for
the position of Lord Mayor of London by
being municipal ratcatcher at Morocco, and
she fills the eye with satisfaction, if not
the ear. Idle Jack (A. G. Spry), Baron
Fitzwarren (B. S. Monti) and lI.M. the
Sultan (Darvell Thomas) are a trio of thin
characters which, if three-plied together,
might make one fat part. The ballets and
choruses are light and bright in an unob
trusive sort of way. A curious item is the
announcement that the shoes worn in the
production were supplied by C. F. Christ-
mas, Collins-street. This seems definitely
to set at rest the burning question
as to a certain popular person’s private
address.
¥ * *
So far as the youngsters are concerned the
panto at Sydney Grand Opera House would
be better termed “The Cat.” Dick Whit-
tington hasn’t got much to do with the story
and is palpably a girl, whereas the Cat.
whose name is Felix, is not only wise and
brave, but also condescending and affable.
He shakes hands with wee girls and boys in
the audience. The pretty little Frog that
can wind its toes round its chin; the naughty
Rat King, the Pups and the Monkeys and the
extremely open-hearted gentleman who goes
mad and pelts the people with minties re-
volve as worthy satellites around Felix. There
is a very terrifying Demon King, and the
small folk wish they could hear all he has to
say. Dan Thomas, Fred Bluett, Jack Can-
not, Robert Roberts, Hector St. Clair, Bert
Barton and other grown-up men say a lot
of funny things—they must be funny because
dad and mum and aunties laugh but won’t
tell what the joke is. Father Christmas and
the Fairies are just what you would expect
STEPHANIE DESTE, who is Azuri in “The Desert Song”
at Melbourne His Majesty’s.
them to be, only cleverer. In addition there’s
a Sea Serpent and a Shipwreck.
* * *
Jane Dillon, a lady who does some unusual
and very effective impersonations, was Syd-
ney Tivoli’s principal offering last week.
She carried a neat line of quiet humor. Mar-
cel and Minka were billed as dancers _of
daring, but there was mighty little dancing
in their turn; it was merely a strong-man
act, though a fairly good one. Patilla and
Pesco make a quaint little show, and Storey
and Garcia hatch out a good laugh or two.
Otherwise moderate to tame.
No doubt the movies are largely to blame
for the lack of public interest in the latest
visit of Nicola, now trafficking in magic at
Melbourne King’s. In the business of mud-
dling - the moronic mind with faked miracles
the camera is supreme—a fight in mid-air
between an eagle and a dog was a feature
of a recent film. Yet the new Nicola is a
much improved magician, and if the reper-
toire of tricks in which the quickness of the
stage hand deceives the audience’s eye comes
out of the same stereotyped box, they are
well disguised in a wardrobe of new clothes.
A first-class show for the kids.
* * *
Mo and his Merrymakers still hold the
boards at Sydney Fullers’, and the latest
perpetration, “At the Races,” is eloquent of
those which have gone before. The Kailis
supply a popular turn, and so do the Brunette
Sisters.,
* * *
For a season of nine nights commencing
next Wednesday the Annie Croft party will
brighten Sydney Royal with “The Girl
Friend.” Then, if present arrangements hold,
“Hit the Deck” will resound there for a
week, before transferring into the place of
“The Vagabond King” at Her Majesty’s.
Another movie house turns to the talkies
to-night (Wednesday) when “The Street
Angel” will flutter at the Prince Edward.
A most interesting item on the same bill
is a talk by George Bernard Shaw.
* * *
Hot weather in Adelaide has continued to
do good work for the out-door show which
Humphrey Bishop conducts. Harry Lauder’s
artificial story of Boy Scouts and Bolshe-
viks is having a good run at Wondergraph.
Louise Fazenda and Mary Astor combine in a
satire on democratic America at the York;
the Pav. has Ken Maynard plus much horse-
back work; and the Regent’s good pictures are
a bit overshadowed by a sort of mock wedding
that has brought much admiration —and
protest.


The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company, Limited.
Founded 1886.
Assets at 31st December, 1927,
£18,567,527,
of which 85% was represented by
Public Securities.
The M.L.O. Charter is constituted to
admit of the issue of policies to meet
the necessities of every class, every age.
every purse. Its range of contracts is
unsurpassed for diversity and liberality,
and the fulfilment of every contract is
guaranteed by the Company’s capital
and its ever-increasing assurance Funds.
CASH SURPLUS in the Ordinary
Branch for the year 1927, £609,330.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
Head Office: Citizens’ Building, Castlereagh
Street and Martin Place, Sydney.
The Patent Indestructible
Garbage Destructor
Is the only Incinerator which is
everlasting and satisfactory,
odorless, smokeless.
OUR NEW CATALOGUE CONTAINS
INCONTESTABLE PROOFS.
GUTHRIDGE, LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown.
’Phones: L 2715. L 2716.
FS
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic P.isk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers* Compensation,
etc., etc.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Dalgety and Co., Ltd.
Ordinary Written off
June, Profits. Dividends.* Premises. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1018.. 251,000 14p.c.= 140,000 25,000 913,771
1919.. 252,157 14 „ „ 140,000 30.000 970,928
1920.. 282,577 15 „ „ 150,000 50,000 1,028,505
1921.. 130,607 10 „ „ 100,000 1,034,112
Taxation refund, £158,210 .. .. 1,192,322
Profit from sale of assets, £20,000 . . 1,212,322
1922.. 84,579 15 p.c. = 150,000 20,000 1,101,901
1923.. 239.162 15 „ ~ 150,000 50,000 1,116,063
1924.. 298,988 17 „ ~170,000 50,000 1,170,051
1925.. 336,313 17 „ ~ 170,000 75,000 1,236,364
1926.. 220,048 17 „ ~ 170,000 50,000 1,211,412
Premium on shares, £128,916 . . 1,340,328
1927.. 232,053 17 p.e. = 170,000 25,000 1,352,381
Premium on shares, £371,084 .. 1,723,465
1928.. 276,887 17 p.c. = 255,000 25,000 1,695,352
*The prefs. (5 p.c.) get £25,000 p.a.
In order to provide for further expansion
of its widely-spread business, this co. issued
a round half-million of £2O ords called to
£5 at a premium of £5 shortly before the
close of accounts in 1927. Final payments
on that lot were made early in the last
term; thus paid capital advanced to
£2,000,000, of which £500,000 is in 5 p.c. non-
cum. prefs., and altogether reserves benefited
by £500,000 of share premiums.
Partly because of this the board wrote
the year’s net profit at £351,886 as against
£282,053 for the previous year. The differ-
ence betwden those figures and the profits
shown in the table represents contributions
to the staff provident fund and bonuses on
salaries. Together the two amounted to
£75,000 last year and £50,000 in the year
before. After handing the prefs. their
£25.000 and striking a like amount off pre-
mises, the balance of the year’s net earnings
was 15.1 p.c. on average ord. capital. Still,
17 p.c. was paid as though it had been easily
earned, and no doubt it was.
In this regard it is worth recalling that
in its 44 years the co. has never failed to
register a profit or pay a div. Indeed it
has been admitted that in its first 10 years
no less than £551,072 was struck off securi-
ties of one kind and another without the
fact being disclosed in the published figures,
and the same conservative policy has been
continued throughout. A reminder of the
fact is to be had in the auditor’s assurance
that last year ample provision was made for
everything of a doubtful nature. That was
before gross profits, which sprang £109,574,
were written into the sheet. Here is the
position as p. and 1. figures show it: —
1920 1926 1927 1928
Gross profits £957,298 £951,648 £951,379 £1,060,953
Outgoings—-
Salaries, exes.,
etc. . . 359,592 407,547 413,530 429,059
Depreciation 20,637
Interest . . 98,251 123,906 129,214 129,664
Taxes . . 186,241 125,147 126,582 150,343
Total outgo £664,721 £656,600 £669,326 £709,066
Exes, were kept well in hand. Of the
£39,740 by which the year’s outgo expanded
£23,760 was on account of taxation. The
£150,343 paid under that head was suffi-
cient to have given the ords. 10 p.c. for the
whole year. Disregarding appropriations,
but deducting the prof, requirements, the
year’s disclosed trading result was 21.8 p.c.
on average ord. capital compared with 25.7,
27. 33.6 and 29.8 p.c. back to 1924.
Drought and the tight money conditions
which prevailed over parts of Australia dur-
ing the term affected Dalgety and Co. less
than most. The co., the world’s biggest wool-
seller, disposed of 471,841 bales last year
as against 469,037 bales in the previous term.
Moreover, the. average price per bale for
Australasia (£24 19s. lid.) was £3 6s. lid.
better than the average for the 1926-27 clip.
Also the cheese and butter markets strength-
ened. But the Australian wheat harvest
measured up to only 116,737,000 bushels, or
about 44,025,000 bushels less than in the
previous year, and prices, though firm to start
with, weakened. In Maoriland there was an
all-round strengthening in price movements,
and earnings from the Dominion con-
tributed largely to the year’s profits. The
new branch at Nairobi, East Africa, where
the business of W. C. Hunter and Co. was
taken over in 1927, is reported to be paying
its way. It promises to be a handy contri-
butor to the pool.
Shortly before the close of last accounts
the Courts decided that the brokers were
entitled to about £450,000 held by Bawra
in trust on account of commissions on the
sale of Bawra wools. The co. does not say
how much of this money it is entitled to, or
whether the amount had been received.
In the past the board’s policy has been to
finance the growth of the business largely
on debenture money, which totalled
£2,953,038 at June 30 last; 53.8 p.c. of it
being in irredeemable 4 and 4£ per cents., and
the balance in to p.c. terminable stocks.
Most of the £742,168 of new share and pre-
mium moneys that came in during the year
was used to reduce the debt, the shrinkage
in which amounted to £724,031. These, and
other movements and the co.’s solid position
are seen in the next comparison of balance-
sheet figures:—
Liabilities.
1923. 1927. 1928.
Capital .. .. £1,500,000 £1,628,916 £2,000,000
Perpetual 4-1 p.c... 499,910 749,910 749,910
„ 4" „ 1,725,544 1,725,544 1,725,544
Terminable 6J p.c. 300,000 40,000
„ 6 „ 4,403
„ 5i „ 4,585 74,000 74,000
„ 5i „ 142,399 142,399
„ 5 „ 40,625 240,125 236,875
„ 41 „ 7,910 27,360 24,310
Sundry creditors, etc. 2,830,846 3,356,168 2,632,137
Assets.
Advances, proper-
ties, etc. .. £3,644,976 £5,433,657 £5,368,055
Premises, etc. .. 397,217 334,344 347,167
Stock .. .. 418,347 910,850 862,858
Sundry debtors .. 870,630 1,044,625 1,165,632
Cash & investments 3,014,716 2,029,327 2,052,813
Sundry debtors, cash and investments alone
totalled £108,724 more than the trade and
terminable debenture debts at June 30. The
reserve fund, in at £1,000,000, was valued
at £171,248 more than that. Premises, etc.,
on which over £1,162,000 had been spent,
figured at £347,167, up £12,823 during the
year. Advances were in at £65,602 less than
at the previous balance.
Prospects for the current year are far from
discouraging, though rain is badly wanted in
parts and the Australian woolclip threatens
to be a trifle lighter and prices have
eased about 5 p.c. on last season’s average.
As far as wheat is concerned there was more
in the ear than the eye saw. Thus far Indian
buying has given welcome support to prices,
which, however, are still very low. Many
a N.S.W. Riverina and Slopes grower who
last year refused ss. 2d. held on for 6s. and
can now get only 3s. lOd.
The share market expresses its opinion
of the co.’s remarkable strength and its
prospects by paying £l5 10s. for the ords.
At that price the return is 5| p.c. on a 17
p.c. div. basis. The visible backing amounts
to £lO 13s in net tangibles. The well pro-
tected prefs. seldom appear on ’Change.
Rosella Preserving and Manufacturing.
To Re- Nominal
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ & &
1918.. 8,607 8 p.c. = 7,500 1107 26,243
1919.. 14,724 10 „ „ 11,510 3214 29,457
1920.. 15,721 10 „ ~12,500 3221 32,678
1921.. 13,089 8 „ „ 10,000 3089 35,767
1922.. 18,183 12 „ ~16,983 1200 36,967
1923.. 24.155 12$ „ ~ 18,750 5405 42,372
1924.. 26,228 15 „ „ 23,863 2375 44,747
1925.. 36,620 17i „ „ 33,162 3458 48,205
Reserves capitalised, £25,000 . . 23,205
1926.. 44,813 17* p.c. = 39,404 5409 28,614
1927.. 54,548 17J „ „ 46,294 8254 36,868
1928.. 29,972 10 „ „ 29,063 909 37,777
General trade depression, following an unsat-
isfactory season ; keen competition and price-
cutting by Government-subsidised co-opera-
tive fruit’ canneries; and the setback, par-
ticularly to manufacturers, that resulted from
the recent shipping hold-up are reflected in
a shrinkage of £24,576 in this co.’s net earn-
ings. This comparison shows what hap-
pened :
Manufacturing Written off
Profit, etc. Expenses. Plant, etc.
1913 .. £36,848 £21,832 £2,293
1915 .. 44,164 28,601 2,246
1920 .. 65,811 44,256 5,833
1924 . . 107,235 72,691 8,316
1925 . . 123,648 75,728 11,643
1926 .. 147,391 90,437 12,311
1927 .. 173,464 105,773 13,176
1928 . . 150,044 107,619 12,544
It is the first check in the remarkable growth
of the figures since the slump of 1921, and
raises the question whether the attractive
performances of recent years can be accepted
as a reliable guide to the future. In other
words, have recent years been normal?
The co. started at Richmond (Vic.) in
1910 with a paid capital of £lOO,OOO and
the backing of Moran and Cato, an energetic
firm of inter-State retailers, whose system
of chain stores has greatly assisted in win-
ning a market for the co.’s products. But
progress was sluggish until the war ended;
since then the business has been pushed with
extraordinary vigor, and of recent years the
management has built up an export trade,
which has hastened the development.
In the last eight years paid capital, includ-
ing £25,000 of bonus scrip issued in 1925,
has grown from £125,000 to £300,000 by par
issues. Over the same period net profits
aggregating £247,608 have been declared, and
nearly 88 p.c. of them have been distributed
in divs. averaging 13.7 p.c. p.a. Thus after
18 years of trading visible reserves of only
2s. - 6d.. subject to an unspecified amount of
goodwill, had been accumulated to assist each
£1 of paid capital at Sept. 30. On the other
hand, assets are said to be conservatively
valued; that is to say, there are inner as
well as visible reserves. Substantial amounts
have been visibly struck off plant, but its
real worth is not so much the figure at which
it stands in the books as what it can earn.
Given normal conditions there is no doubt
at all about the co.’s capacity to win good
returns. The £29,972 netted last year was
10.3 p.c. on average funds (capital and
reserves combined) compared with 18.6, 17.8,
15.5, 12.9 and 17.7 p.c. back to 1923. _ The
surprising thing is that such profitable
employment was so quickly found for the
steady inflow of new money. Still, until
capital gets more support, profits, and there-
fore divs., are liable to be sensitive to trade
fluctuations.
Last year’s difficulties are visible in this
comparison of balance-sheet figures
1921. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Capital . . £125,000 £250,000 £275,000 £300,000
Creditors,
deposits, etc. 64,105 53,905 71,709 187,455
Property, plant
and goodwill 79,958 153,067 161,467 218,933
Stock.. .. 92,839 87,987 129,283 232,902
Debtors and
bills . . 56,813 100,783 112,150 102,317
Cash, invest-
ments, etc.. . 6,263 30,086 26,972 144
To carry an extra £103,619 of stocks, the
increase is mainly the result of the shipping
trouble, and spend £57,466 more than was
written off on plant, etc., the board went to
its bankers for £69,381 and was leaning
on other creditors, mostly depositors, for
an additional £46,365 when the books closed
on Sept. 30. Altogether £115,746 was tackl'd
on to the debt, but the more or less liquid
surplus (£147,908) was only £48,788 lighter
than at the previous balance. A lot depends
upon the figure at which stocks have been
taken into the sheet. On that point the
board gives its comforting assurance that,
as usual, all assets have been conservatively
valued.
Since the close of accounts and the end
of the waterside trouble there has been
marked improvement in the trading position.
It is reported that sales have exceeded ex-
pectations, and that prospects continue
bright. The erection of new factories at
Newtown (Tas.) and Adelaide are scheduled
for the current year. To help finance the
work shareholders are to be asked to put
up another £25,060; thus advancing paid
capital to £325,000.
The market, much impressed by the co.’s
past performances, its strong connections and
the continued expansion of the business,
valued the pound shares at 525. a year ago;
but in the light of recent it has
revised its estimate and now pays 445. After
allowing for the new issue the return at the
latter figure is only 4.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis, or 6 p.c. if tire div. is lifted
to 12$ p.c.
W. E. Smith, Ltd. (Sydney).
Written ■ Re-
Oet., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. .. 8128 lOip.e. = 4687 925 9,570
1919.. .. 9678 12J „ „ 5624 1034 12,590
Co. reconstructed, visible and internal re-
serves capitalised, and goodwill included at
£7622 (not treated as an asset hereunder).
To Re-
serves. Deficit
1920.. .. 12,594 8 p.c. = 8000 4594 2,928
1921.. .. 4,751 5 „ „ 5000 3,177
1922.. .. 6,381 6 „ „ 6000 381 2,790
1923.. .. 7,515 6 „ „ 6000 1515 1,281
Reserves.
1924.. .. 6,532 5 „ „ 5000 1532 251
1925.. .. 5,376 5 „ „ 5000 376 627
1926.. .. 6,562 5 „ „ 5000 1562 2,189
1927.. .. 7,387 5 „ ~ 5000 2387 4,576
1928.. .. 7,028 5 „ „ 5000 2028 6,604
When the public was invited in, and that
was 17 years ago, it looked a fairly certain
10-p.c. proposition. But the old proprietor,
W. E. Smith, was not tied to the business;
indeed, he quitted immediately and died soon
afterwards. Within four years divs. had
withered to nothing. Then it was decided
to prune out the dead wood, of which an
unsuspected quantity was found, and £30,000
of capital (£75,000) was struck off as unrep-
resented by tangible assets. This done, things
began to improve rapidly, and by 1919 the
div. had climbed to 12$ p.c. and £12,590 of
reserves had accumulated. The board saw
the glow of the boom reflected far into the
future. So not only was the written-off capi-
tal restored, on paper, but £25,000 was
similarly added; thus in one leap paid capital
went from £45,000 to £lOO,OOO, at which
figure it still stands.
But since then conditions for the co.
have changed completely, and save in 1920,
the last of the war-boom years, results have
failed to justify the printing of so much
scrip. Over the last nine years shareholders
have averaged only a whisper more than
5$ p.c., equal, certainly, to 12.3 p.c. on
the face value of holdings immediately
before the 1919 reconstruction; but what
investors are chiefly concerned about now
is the prospect of a lift in the div. rate.
A move was made into new premises in
George-street in 1925. But earnings have been
slow to respond; last year gross profits
(£44,841) were only £5234 better than the
1023 figure; exes. (£37,813) had grown
£5721 over the same period, so the net
result (£7208) was actually £487 poorer.
It was 7 p.c. on capital compared with 7.4,
6.6, 5.4 and 6.5 p.c. back to 1924. And there
is not much of a buttress for paid capital
in the £6604 of reserves either.
The board blames another fire at the fac-
tory for the drop in last year’s net profit.
But exes, are a matter for serious concern;
they consumed 84.3 p.c. of last year’s gross
profit. The problem for the management
is largely one of how to reduce costs and
keep overhead down. The. rise of the special-
ist in typewriter supplies, loose-leaf book-
keeping and filing systems, etc., and the
growth of the small-job printer has put an
edge on competition in almost every line. So
business needs to be hunted for with vigor,
profit margins are narrow, and concerns
with heavy overhead suffer.
The freehold is in at £51,415. subject
to a mortgage of £12,667. During the year
£7306 was spent on plant, etc., which appa-
rently includes the factory leasehold, and
£6067 was written off, leaving the item with
a net book value of £39,764, up £5889 in
the last five years. A lot hangs upon whether
the allowances for depreciation prove to be
sufficient, and upon the basis on which
stocks (£53,486) have been taken into the
sheet—they account for 34.6 p.c. of the total
assets. The overdraft (£4979 at the previous
balance) was wiped out, and £B7l was snipped
off the amount coming to trade creditors
(£20,625). Thus there was a slight improve-
ment in the liquid position :—•
1923. 1925. 1927. 1928.
Stocks .. .. £50,577 £53,280 £57,276 £53,486
Book debts, etc... 22,245 16,110 23,984 20,619
Cash .. .. * 4,942 2,972 718 2,112
£77,764 £72,362 £81,978 £76,217
Liabilities . . 9,920 40,071 52,475 45,625
Liquid surplus .. £67,844 £32,291 £29,503 £30,592
Less final div. . . 3,000 2,500 2,500 2,500
£64,844 £29,791 £27,003 £28,092
Liabilities are apart from the mortgage, men-
tioned above, but there is nothing uneasy in
the position.
The market sums up the situation by pay-
ing 12s. for the pound shares. In other words
it capitalises the undertaking at £60,009.
The return at the current price is 8.3 p.c.
on a 5 p.c. div. basis.
National T., E. and A. Co. (Melb.).
To
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. S6BO 10 p.c. = 3000 680 32,018
1919.. 4118 10 .. „ 3000 1118 33,136
1920.. 3921 10 „ „ 3000 921 34,057
Transferred to Capital, £3750 . . 30,307
1921.. 4603 10 p.c. = 3375 1228 '31,535
1922.. 4680 10 ~ „ 3375 1305 32,840
1923.. 4117 10 „ „ 3375 742 33,58?
1924.. 4109 10 „ „ 3375 734 34,316
Transferred to Capital, £3750 . . 30,566
1925.. 5503 12 p.c. = 4500 1003 31,569
1926.. 5502 12 „ „ 4500 ) 9 , 71
To Superannuation, £lOOO ) -
1927.. 5653 12 p.c. = 4500 )
To Superannuation, £lOOO )
1928.. 5553 12 p.c. = 4500 ) r „
To Superannuation, £lOOO ) 0 ’
This Melbourne trustee co. does not pub-
lish a statement of the value of estates
entrusted to its care, but it appears to have
a very solid business, which is growing
steadily. Gross profits, £21,916 in 1923,
were £27,797 last year, when the increase
amounted to £llB2. But exes, took a clear
£lOO more than that, leaving the final figure
just a trifle more than the 12 p.c. div. and
the contribution to the staff provident
fund called for. Incidentally, endowment of
the staff fund on the present scale will be
discontinued within three years.
Although shareholders have had a long run
of good divs., sweetened with two gift issues
which make the present 12 p.c. worth 15
p.c. to old holders, the co., so far as figures
show, has never been a great money-spinner.
To pay a 12 p.c. div. capital and reserves
combined must earn 61 p.c.; last year they
turned in a clear 8 p.c. as against 8, 7.9, 8,
6 and 6.1 p.c. back to 1923. The figures sug-
gest that a nice little block of business came
into the office about four years ago.
Chief investment interest now centres in
the prospects of a new share issue. For
some years premises have not brought in a
fair return on the sum invested ; difficulties
arising out of “ancient lights” stood in the
way of a remedy. These difficulties were
overcome by the purchase of an adjoining
property a little over a year ago; and the
board went to its bankers for the money,
making the overdraft £49,175 at October 31;
1910. 1920. 1926. 1927. 1928.
Liabilities .. £705 £1,207 £1,620 £50,344 £51,490
Pnhlif* QPPiiritiPg
cash, etc... 15,239 12,332 11,684 10,400 10,400
Freeholds . . 28,600 50,802 56,762 107,968 107,989
Foreclosures.. 7,684 Nil Nil . Nil Nil
Mortgages .. 4,906 Nil Nil Nil Nil
Other assets.. 2,966 3,711 5,789 4,721 5,876
Freeholds are in at cost (£108,667) less de-
preciation (£678). The idea is to put up
a block of modern offices designed to bring
in a better return than the present building,


4^/
we?
-c
"72%
JX!
V'
V
/9999 P
T ~/z^v-
-1
K
Uo
HlTfvioße
The Commercial
"£ERTAINLY! Happy to make a fourth.”
"Good! And how have you found things
this trip?”
"Splendid! Everyone glad to see me. It’s worth
while representing the world’s most popular
spirit. Ido know that my firm will deliver qual-
ity that is regularly, consistently uniform.”
"We know it too, old man. Our friends say we
must be subsidised —we’re such sticklers for
Johnnie Walker. But it’s merely that we know
what’s what and play safe.”
JOHNNIE
WALKER
Born 1820-
Stfflgoing Strong
busy meeting old
edusimlianjriends
iNTTfUMi
The more a man mixes
his company, the more
keenly does he appreci-
ate the consistent and
mature friendliness of
"Johnnie Walker ”
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., Sydney, Melbourne, London and Kilmarnock


Don’t Lose
Your Money!
MORE THAN HALF
OF ALL REGISTERED
COMPANIES FAIL.
cT
If you invest anything
at all you can’t afford
to be without
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
JANUARY NUMBER NOW ON SALE.
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6.
From Newsagents, or “Bulletin Offices,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.
It looks a good deal of money, but
it may save you a hundred times
as much.
We stock -4- GF -f- Malleable Fittings to suit
every requirement, and as there are over 7600
varieties to*. choose from, we can accommodate any
trade. For water, steam or gas. Will not split or
crack, and are correct in every detail. Obtainable
from William Adams & Co., : Ltd., Sole Agents,
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth.— Advt.
* * , * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, F.C.P.A., Public Accountant, Victoria
Buildings, Swanston Street, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
The installation of Pioneer Wood Pipe for indus-
trial, municipal, public works or farm liquid con-
veyance schemes will show increased returns in
durability and efficiency. It is capable of function-
ing at full capacity on every class of work irres-
pective of the liquids handled. Our book of detailed
information is available on request. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Koad (near Figtree
Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footscray,
Victoria. — Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting t
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coldison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree.— Advt.
He * * *
Hydraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
Who Will Manage Your Estate?
At all times when an individual is appointed as Executor or Trustee
the uncertainty of human life is present. Who is better qualified to
administer your Estate than the
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED.
It cannot die, travel or disappear; has had over 40 years’ experience
in the management of all classes of Estates, and offers as security the
whole of its capital and assets —over £1,000,000.
Our Explanatory Booklet will be
sent to you Post Free on Request.
THOS. BUCKLAND
JAMES MOIR
F.
DIRECTORS:
N. YARWOOD
(Chairman)
O. E. FRIEND
Lt.-Col. T. F. RUTLEDGE
J. W. Barnes, Manager.
E. V. T. Whittle, Asst. Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
INSURE WITH THE
m
Australian General
Insurance Company Ltd.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
16 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centret.
and at the same time provide a more impos-
ing looking home. A start on the details of
the programme has been delayed pending
consolidation of the property titles, now said
to be approaching completion.
An announcement of the board’s new capi-
tal requirements is anticipated during the
current year. Paid capital is now £37,500
in 75,000 £2 shares paid to 10s. each; but
of the 30s. uncalled 20s. is a reserve liability
that can be got in only in the event of
liquidation.
The market figures that the scrip is worth
245., the immediate return at that price
being 5 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div. basis. It is
doubtful, however, whether returns from
the new building, which, when complete,
might take a while to develop its full revenue-
producing capacity, will enable a 12 p.c. div.
to be maintained on a much increased capital.
A one-for-one par issue, called to 10s., would
make the average return a shade under 0
p.c. at the current price on a 10 p.c. div.
basis.
The Canterbury Frozen Meat and Dairy
Produce Export Co. (Maoriland).
, —Dividends-^,
Pref. Ord. Wiitten
Nov., Profit. 6 p.c. 10 p.c. Off. Reserves.
1918.. 15,957 6000 11,250 1,534 144,427
14 p.c.
1919.. 80,815 6000 15,750 6,748 196,744
1920.. 43,331 6000 15,750 7,920 210,405
1921.. 37,939 6000 15,760 6,069 220,525
1922.. 31,227 6000 15.750 4,394 225,608
1923.. 31,362 6000 15,750 7,231 227,989
12 p.c.
1924.. 27,700 6000 13,500 10,620 225,569
10 p.c.
1925.. 21,176 6000 11,250 7,629 221,866
8 p.c.
1926.. 21,318 6000 9,000 7,663 220,521
1927.. 21,362 6000 9,000 3,106 223,777
1928.. 22,010 6000 9,000 3,726 227,061
Owing to dry conditions during the first two
months of 1928, many lambs in the area in
which this Maoriland co. operates did not
fatten up to expectations; thus the propor-
tion of primes was less, and that did not help
prices. Also the market for slipe wools was
about 15 p.c. below the previous year’s level.
However, a substantial improvement in the
butter and cheese markets enabled the board
to write the year’s profit a few hundred
pounds better than the 1927 figure.
Paid capital is £212,500, of which £lOO,OOO
is in 6 p.c. prefs. After handing the prefs.
their requirements (£6000) and allowing for
the amount visibly spent on renewals —shown
as written off in the table —the balance of the
year’s net earnings was equal to 10 p.c. on
the ord. capital, compared with 10, 6.8, 6.7
and 9.8 p.c. back to 1924. There is nothing
very attractive in that considering that over
£3 of reserves were at work helping each
£1 of ord. capital at Nov. 30. And there is
only £82,616 invested outside the business;
it is in war loan, probably returning 5 p.c.
or thereabouts, so that cannot be much of a
drag. Hast year’s £22,010 was 5 p.c. on
average fund (capital and reserves combined)
as against 4.9, 4.9 and 4.8 p.c. in the three
preceding years. Obviously, there is still not
much profit in the business.
And whether the whole of the profits
claimed each year have been really earned
largely depends upon whether the allowances
for depreciation, etc., prove to be sufficient.
The provision is made before the figures are
written into the sheet, and no hint is given
as to the amount, though, as will be shown
presently, it is probably quite sufficient.
During the fat years there was good reason
for suspecting that substantial additions were
made to plant and charged up against
revenue. Nowadays costs are a vital matter
and mechanical improvements tend to make
obsolescence an even more costly item than
ordinary wear and tear.
The co. has been in the business for the
last 46 years, and for the first 33 of them the
ords. averaged approximately 8 p.c. Then the
British meat purchase and other war con-
tracts turned the Maoriland freezing and
export trade into a really lucrative business.
After making various allowances and paying
the pref. div., this co.’s profits mounted to
60.5 p.c. on the ord. capital in 1919. but the
board did no more than raise the div. to 14
p.c., and kept it there for the next four years.
Thus a fine pile of visible reserves was
stacked up; but competition has since become
so keen and profit margins so slender that
most of the small operators have been frozen
out of the business, and this co. has had to
reduce its ord. div. to 8 p.c. for the last
three years.
Last year’s brisker trading is reflected in
this comparison of balance-sheet figures:
1915. 1920. 1927. 1928.
Liabilities .. £111,262 £519,840 £390,861 £424,661
’ffi' :SS“" r 282,828 3,5,290 32,,168 811,710
dCbtS : 169,337 611,705 513,170 560,012
The financial position looks comfortable
enough. The more or less liquids, including
stocks, were £135,351 in excess of the debt
at Nov 30. Operations were extended in 1921
and 1922 bv the establishment of works at
Orari and Christchurch, and the book value
of fixed assets grew to £335,730. Since then
£39,975 has been visibly written oft, but the
shrinkage in book value amounts to only
£24,020. Nevertheless £29,382 more has
been written off than has been spent under
the same head during the last two years, so
appearances are that depreciation is not
neglected. It is plain also that the co. is
well equipped to take advantage of any
improvement in trading conditions.
The market prices the £lO ords paid to
£7 10s. at £9 12s. 6d. The return at that
figure is 6.2 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The
backing, mostly in plant, worth what it can
earn, amounts to £22 12s. 9d. per share in
net tangibles. The cover for the fully paid
£5 prefs., which carry a cumulative 6 p<c.
and have priority as to capital, figures out
at nearly £22 per share. They are priced
at par or a little better. '
The Big Rubber Merger.
The Barnet Glass Co. has joined in the
Dunlop-Perdriau merger negotiations. All
three are said to be in agreement on the
main principles of the scheme, but details
remain to be settled. The aggregate paid
capital of the three cos. is £4,420,777 —Dun-
lop, £2,470,655; Perdriau, £1,205,843; Bar-
net Glass, £744,279. Broadly the purposes
of the merger are to reduce overhead and
costs by the elimination of overlapping in
the buying, manufacturing and sales organ-
isations of the three businesses.
Last year there was a collapse of prices
in the raw-rubber market following the
scrapping of the Stevenson restriction
scheme, and the Dunlop Co., for the first
time in 29 years, registered a loss (£36,452).
The ords., which have had an average of
6.7 p.c. over the last five years, were passed
over. But the co.’s trade position was
greatly strengthened by the English Dunlop
co. taking up a half-million £1 ords. at 255.
each. Much is expected from technical bene-
fits. A revaluation of the Australian co.’s
assets disclosed £173,864 of inner reserves,
which, with £115,000 of share premiums,
made the total lay-by £340,002. subject to
£165,000 of goodwill, at June 30 last.
The Perdriau co., for the year to June 30,
1928, wrote net profits at the record figure
of £213,393. After satisfying two lots of
prefs. and handing the ords. their usual
12i p.c., £75,830 was sent to reserves, making
them £303,389. That was after a revalua-
tion of the assets disclosed £141.169 not pre-
viously on view.
The Barnet Glass Co., which was hit hard
in the slump of seven ago, has made
remarkable progress since. For the last two
years it paid an all-round 10 p.c. div., and
after restoring £90,000 lopped off the ords.
in 1922, had accumulated £101,964 of reserves
at June 30 last. Its assets have not yet
been revalued for the purposes of the merger.
At the close of 1928 Dunlop. Perdriau and
Barnet Glass ords. were at 245. 10d., 345.
3d., and 28s. respectively on the market. At
June 30 last the backing in each case was
21s. 10d., 255. 9d. and 235. 3d. in net tan-
gibles.
Victor Leggo and Farmers, Ltd.
The Victor Leggo Chemical Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Yarraville (Vic.), has been in the agri-
cultural chemistry business for the last 22
years, but thus far has not undertaken the
manufacture of superphosphate. Now it is
proposed to make super, manufacture the
backbone of the enterprise. In order to do
this the present co. has been projected with
a nominal capital of £500,000 in £1 shares,
half prefs. and the other half ords. It will
take over the business and assets of the
proprietary co. for £67,000 in 134,000 ords.
paid to 10s. each. The price includes £17,558
for goodwill, which does not appear to be
overvalued, being less than the total net
profits of the proprietary for the last two
years.
In order to raise the money to build a new
super, plant, and with a view to getting a
secure and profitable footing quickly, the
co. has invited the man on the land to come
in on a semi-co-operative basis. Customers
and potential customers are offered £250,000
7 p.c. non-cum. prefs., which have priority
as to capital and the right to advance with
the ords. to 10 p.c. .
A feature of the float is the way m which
profits are to be cut up. First, the prefs. are
entitled to their 7 p.c., after that the ords.
may receive 5 p.c. Of the balance, if any,
one-lialf is to be divided amongst customer-
shareholders in the proportion that their
purchases bear to the co.’s total sales. The
other half will be available for divs. and the
creation of reserves of a general character.
It is estimated that £210,000 of new capi-
tal will be wanted to proceed with the
present programme. That would make paid
capital £277,000; if the £67,000 at call on
the ords. is got in, the balance will be in
sight when 143,000 prefs. are subscribed.
On that basis and assuming that the co. nets
10 p.c. on its paid capital, the amount
availabie as bonuses to customer-shareholders
would be £5495. approximately one-fifth of
the profit, the balance of which would be
sufficient to advance the ord. div. to 7 p.c.
and leave £2815, about 1 p.c. of the paid
capital, for reserves, etc.
For the 12 months to June 30, 1928, the
proprietary netted £10,636 —the figures were
£5965 and £6736 for the two preceding years
—equal to 15.9 p.c. on the purchase price
and more than sufficient to meet the mini-
mum requirements on £143,000 of pref.
money. For the latter the backing would
amount to about 365. per share in net tan-
gibles, subject to formation and preliminary
exes. The old co.’s shareholders have ex-
pressed their confidence in the future of the
business in a very practical way.
Although the demand for fertiliser is on
the increase, competition is very keen and
success may depend a good deal upon the
support of customer-shareholders.
The operations of the powerful combina-
tion of American copper-producing interests,
Copper Exporters, Inc., have raised protests
from manufacturers, but producers have seen
the market greatly strengthened. The com-
bine had difficulty in getting a hold at first,
but since control of the United States and
Canadian outputs was achieved about a year
ago production has been curtailed and re-
fined copper stocks drastically reduced. In
the previous year competition from uncon-
trolled copper caused prices to drop as low as
£55 a ton. Once outside interests were got
in hand, however, prices steadily advanced
to the present rate, which is £74 14s. The
limitation of output has resulted in many
buyers being unable to fill their requirements
at a single price, the market having strength-
ened after the first ration. Of course there
is a limit to the advance; but immediate in-
dications are that prices are likely to be
more stable. One result of this promises to
be an early revival of the Australian output.
* * * *
When No. 3 prospecting bore, which is
being drilled for oil and gas by the Vic.
Mines Department, opposite the, entrance to
the Gippsland Lakes, closed for the holidays
the drill had reached 1344 ft., the last 13ft.
in green sandstone. The strata in this hole
are similar to those passed through in No.
2, about two miles east, though they are
gradually becoming thicker. More than a
showing of oil is said to have been got
from No. 2 bore before the water took
charge.
* * * *
Moliagul (Vic.), where the Welcome
Stranger nugget was found, lies north of
Dunolly and north-east of Tarnagulla, two
old goldfields celebrated fpr rich reefs and
big nuggets. A new generation of prospectors
is now hunting for the indicator and for more
lumps of gold. About 100 ft. south of the
monument commemorating the discovery of
the Welcome Stranger, a party of prospec-
tors has found a reef 4ft. wide at a point
12ft. below the surface. From two buckets
of quarts 450 z. gold has been dollied.
* * * *
Rose, Thistle and Shamrock, Harrietville
(Vic.), had a Christmas clean-up of 3470 z.
smelted gold from 335 tons ore. During its
career the present co. has crushed 36,000 tons
for 35,0000 z. valued at £140,000.
* sH ❖ *
The Tasmanian Government proposes to
give £5OOO on a £-for-£ basis to assist a co.
or syndicate to test the Blue Tier lode-fin
fields, said to cover 105 sq. miles, on the east
coast. The field is alleged to offer facilities
for open-cut mining, though _ that method
rarely answers up to expectations. A plan
prepared by an expert committee showed that
the treatment of 1,500,000 tons of Blue Tier
ore annually, with a recovery of .2 per cent,
tin, would yield profits ranging from
£125,000 to £400,000 according to the price
of the metal. At'that rate of production the
estimated life of the field is put at 25 years.
The plan provides for the employment of
300 men and an extension of the State’s
liydro-electrie mains to supply 4000 h.p.
* * * *
Yanawi, Fiji, proposes to instal a couple
of puddling machines and a sft. Huntington
Mill to treat a gold-bearing deposit in altered
rock. Thermal action is said to be respons-
ible for the gold content. The lode —if it
is a lode —is 25ft. wide, has been tested
for 1000 ft. by two adits and five open cuts,
and all of them are said to show “good
values.” Profits, if any, will depend upon
what the values of large tonnages really are.
The sampling of a show of this sort is
difficult. Costs are not expected to exceed
10s. per ton.
* * * *
The reported success of McCahons Co. on
portion of the old Edna May group has
caused the migration of several of the
smaller Adelaide no-liability concerns to
Westonia (W.A.). The latest is Halls Asso-
ciated. It claims to have an area alongside
one which has produced £42,000 to date, and
is not far from others whose past has been
even better. Jim Hebbard reported that the
co. has a good chance of finding gold if
“thorough and systematic prospecting is
done,” but offers no opinion as to whether
it might be payable.
* * * si*
If it is proved that payable shoots exist
at depth in North Kalgurli ground it may
give the field a lift it badly needs. At the
south end of the “Mile” values in the Chaf-
fers lease begin in Lake View ground at a
depth of about 2000 ft.; on the North Kal-
gurli they will probably begin from near the
surface. There is nothing at present to show
that the high-grade stuff exposed in Chaffers
will be found in North Kalgurli, but should
40s. ore be disclosed over good lengths and
widths it should become a very valuable
mine. Tributors’ returns from stuff rooted
out and picked over during the last 25 years
have averaged nearer 60s. than 40s. a ton.
*}» jjc ❖
Lake View and Star for eight months
ended Oct. 31 showed a profit of £12,067 from
the treatment of 73,297 tons ore. Deduct
£4770 for development and a net surplus of
£7297 remained. Tailings, yielded £1516.
Expenditure on Chaffers lease for the first
ten months of the year is given at £20,336.
A feature of the monthly expenditure has
been the diminishing amount spent in
developing other parts of the property, show-
ing that the management is concentrating its
activities on Chaffers.
;?£ * &


Every truck buyer
: a
mu
ilj|
S!
Mill »
n
li
i
ffi
iiiiH
u
m
■
v
asKed Himself tHese
four questions;—
(1) How much can I save?
(2) How much does it cost?
(3) How long will it last?
(4) How dependable is it?
DF
Judge the answers
in thousands of cases
the whole world over
from the following—
There are more
REPUBLIC
trucßs in use than those of any other
individual trucK manufacturer.
New South Wales:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177-185 William Street, Sydney.
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
South Australia:
69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Victoria:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
Western Australia:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
90S Hay Street, Perth.
Queensland:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency
(Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
New Zealand:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets,
Wellington.
Factory Distributors: W. A. CROWLE, LTD., Crowle House, 105 York Street, Sydney.


Starts
To-morrow
Savings
In every
Department.
At least
10%
is marked off all
goods (except-
ing a few pro-
prietary lines).
SD
Starts
To-morrow
But
Many
Lines
are being
cleared as low as
Half-
Price
Solid Cash Savings in all Departments
A £6/10/- to £7/7/- all-wool worsted
Suit tflHMUto
And Hand Finished
SALE PRICE - -
k
i
o
O
O
You’ll be enthusiastic over the reduction, for these fine quality Pure
Wool Worsteds and Pure Indigo Dye Serges have remarkable long-
wearing life. All that’s newest in tone and design is featured. Fill
in the coupon and have patterns mailed you. A faultlessly Tailored
Suit to your Measure, and Hand-Finished.
Usually, £6lO/- to £7/7/-
SALE PRICE . . .
£s'l6'9
Another Reduction of Extraordinary Merit
Genuine £B/8/- Hand-finished
High-grade W orsted Suits-to-Measure
Superb Quality Pure Wool Worsteds. Absolutely the finest-
quality materials, and irreproachably tailored to your
measure and hand-finished. In the latest patterns and
newest color tones.
USUALLY, £B/8/-
SALE
PRICE,
£611216
Have you seen our
SALE CATALOGUE?
Hundreds of Bargains in Every Department. A
copy will be mailed to you absolutely free upon
request.
FREE PATTERNS!
Fill in and post this coupon.
Desk 7?.,
Murdoch's in Park-street, Ltd.
Box 3875 T.T., 0.P.0.
Dear Sirs, —Kindly send me, entirely free of cost,
and without obligation , complete range of patterns at
Sale Prices of the £5/16/9 and £6/12/6 offers featured
here. I am also interested in suitings priced somewhere
in the vicinity of £
"Name
Address
0/1/29
Countless Bargains
Just Look at These!
USUALLY
25/-
Men’s High-grade Felt Hats.
“Snap-Brim” shape in latest
colors
SALE PRICE
17/6
10/6
Men’s Winceyette Striped
Pyjamas. Reliable wearing . .
7/6
27/6
Men’s Black Calf Boots or
shoes. Square-toe shape ....
21/-
4/11
Fancy Art Silk and Wool Socks
for Men
3/3
8/11
One-piece Men’s “Surfo” Swim-
ming Costumes
7/3
£25
5-valve Radio Receiver. Inter
state reception. Complete .
£l6/16/-
(Wireless Sets are Sent Half-freight. Free
to nearest Railway Station or Port.)
V/1
v ■
I 1
I
MURDOCHS
n* ■*
PARK
STREET
SYDNEY
"The World’s Largest Men’s and Boys’ Wear Store.
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR except where
otherwise stated.
When mailing your orders, kindly address the letter to
Desk R., Box 3875 T.T., G.P.O.


ROMANO’S
York Street, near Market Street,
(behind Civil Service Stores), Sydney
High-Class Continental
Restaurant.
Luxuriously fitted up—Beautiful
lighting effects—A wonderful band
(under the direction of Merv Lyons)
and the last word in culinary.
Mon Pierre Chet, from the Cafe de Paris, Paris,
is master of his art, and Romano’s hope to
please the palate of the most fastidious. Visitors
from the country will find an ideal place
where they can entertain friends.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS,
DINNERS AND SUPPERS.
A Private Room for Weddings or
Special Parties.
For Reservations Ring M 6727 (3 lines).
(Also under the personal supervision of Romano. )
ORDER WINES BEFORE 6 P.M.
FS
'T'he purest tobacco only,
Wrapped in snow-white
paper without any trimmings
has made <<c Uhe Qreys” the
best 'Virginia Cigarette.
It’s the Tobacco that matters
GREYS
io fov 9A CIGARETTES zofov 1/6
MAJOR DRAPKIN & CO. Branch of the United Kingdom Tobacco Co. Ltd. [NSG9
t>E*
kfAC<
The Sign of
QUALITY
The Wunderlich Trademark is
a sign of quality it is your
guarantee of sterling value in
the following materials:—
Art Metal Ceilings, Terra Cotta
Roofing Tiles, Asbestos Cement
(Durabestos) Building Sheets.
Look for the trademark on these
products, when you purchase.
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Delph” : A friend, of ours is subject to
poisoning by parsley. When she eats it she
develops acute catarrhal symptoms, the
THE MORNING AFTER.
“’Ullo, Pershy! How long ’ave you bin dead?”
severity of which depends on the quantity
taken. Lately, in our house, she partook of
a sauce heavily laden with parsley, think-
ing, she said afterwards, that she might
have overcome the peculiarity. The results
were startling. Her face puffed up; her
throat swelled, tears poured down her
cheeks, and acute nasal catarrh troubled her.
together with an irritant cough. This acute
condition lasted three hours, and was partially
relieved after two doses of aspirin. There
were still traces of swelling next morning,
and catarrhal conditions continued. Paw-
paws, she told us, had an even worse effect.
After having eaten one for the first time
some months ago, she was so overcome with
catarrh in the throat and head as to require
medical treatment. What’s the explanation?
* * * *
“Tomb”: Bandy spat disgustedly as he
watched the big bay working his beast at the
annual camp drift. “Blime,” he growled,
“call that a stock ’orse? W’y, the blighter
can’t shoulder a beast fer nuts. I wisht I
’ad me little ches’nut ’ere that I useter ’ave
up at Kingaroj*. ’E was that clever at
shoulderin’ that I could easy keep two flamin’
goannas on a dinner-plate with ’im!”
* * * *
“Castleton”: I claim to have "discovered
Australia’s brobdingnagian, gargantuan, ele-
phantine mammoth ant. More truthfully, it
discovered me near Urunga (N.S.W.), or,
even more exactly, about the seat of my
pants. After my natural emotion regarding
our first contact had subsided, I fan the
rule over his dead carcase. He was
over all, and nearly £in. across. The man-
dibles were unduly long and menacingly
curved like callipers. The painful swelling
from the bite indicated clearly that the big
brute carried a good dose of poison. He
wag of a sickly lemon color. There were
others of the tribe about, but none measured
more than 2ip.
* * * *
“Verri” : That the ancient Maori knew a
thing or two about the catching of big fish
is conceded by Zane Grey, who this season
handed a contract for line-making to Poi-
tutu, a Taranaki Maori of 80 years, who
learned the craft from his ancestors. The
special line, of enormous length, is being
tnade by hand-plaiting Maoriland flax, sea-
soned with special juices, and it is guaran-
teed to haul in the biggest mako shark or
'the liveliest swordfish in the Sea of Kiwa,
as the Maori called the Tasman.
* =i= * *
“Drover” : What’s the longest dry stage a
travelling mob of cattle have done without
a drink? Some years ago Bronco Smith
brought in a mob of 1200 bullocks from
Alexandria (N.T.) to Mt. Leonard in SLW.
Q’land, and during the trip covered one
stretch of 1.19 miles without his cattle having
a drink. He kept them going day and
night, allowing them to rest when they wanted
to. Native wells supplied sufficient water
for his horses and camp needs, and for fear
of stampeding the cattle the beasts were
kept well away from the smell of water. His
assistants were a half-caste gin as cook, a
white boy of 14 and three abos. When he
delivered at Mt. Leonard all his cattle were
marked present.
* * * *
“Hayband”: Looking about my place at
Toongabbie (N.S.W.) to see what damage
had been done by a recent Sunday gale, I
noticed a large tree quite dead. Examina-
tion showed that it had been ringed by
lightning. The death-current’s track down
the tree could plainly be seen. At about
two feet from the ground it had circled and
torn away a strip of bark about four inches
wide. Though it was only 2 \ hours since
“Pull in—you’ve (hie) got a bite.”
the storm had passed over, the leaves had
wilted, and 10 days later the tree was as
bare as a flagpole. At a neighbor’s place a
flash so' heated a 600-gallon tank of water
that three hours later it was still uncom-
fortably warm to the hand.
* # * ■ *
“Thomas Pepper” : That pet hen of “Lizzie
Dimmit’s” (B. 32/12/’2B) can’t show any
points to an old Black Orp. of mine which
went broody recently. I
put her on a setting of
eggs, but the old girl
closely examined them
and rejected three before
perching on the remain-
der. I put the three dis-
cards back several times,
with the same result, so
I gave it up and left her
with nine to hatch out. In
due course nine chicks —
all black —came out, and
the mother led them out
to where the old Black
Orpington rooster was
dozing in the shade of the
haystack. Clucking
loudly, she went past the
old boy, who closely ex-
amined each of the follow-
ing chicks and then con-
tentedly went to sleep
again, while the hen led
the chicks away to teach
them to scratch beneath
the mangers. A few
hours later a young hen
came along with a brood,
but four of her chicks
were white. The old
rooster gazed at the sight
in i silent anger for a
minute, and then rushed
straight at a Leghorn
rooster, who fled in ter-
ror. His pursuer corner-
ed him, however, and ga.ve
him the father of a hid-
ing. At the sight of
the battle the old hen looked at me and
slowly closed her right eye, and then I under-
stood. The three eggs sh e had rejected were
laid by one of the Leghorns, and the virtuous
lady didn’t want to have the disgrace of
raising half-castes, so to speak.
$ * * *
“Up North” : We can’t show Binghi many
points about play-making, play-acting, drama-
tisation and producing. Each tribe has its
great playwright and its star actors, men and
women. New ideas are eagerly seized on
by the playwrights, who, if not game to go
out into the great world themselves, are often
accused of pirating the ideas of those adven-
turers the sailor boys who have been on a
beche-de-mer cruise. All the adventures they
have had, the sights they have seen in the
white man’s “villages,” the curious life of
the white man and his missus, how they
eat, live and dress and scandalise—all this
is memorised, to be retailed at home for
play-acting. Policemen, fire-brigades, motor-
cars and aeroplanes make choice material.
The horse is almost ousted nqw, but the
drunk still draws ribald laughter. When a
new play has made a hit among the tribes
1 have known a copyist to travel for hundreds
of miles to witness the. play, memorise it
and reproduce it before his own tribe. There
is a regular trade done in these plays in coun-
try where the natives are still numerous, for
there is a sort of “copyright” on everything
sung and acted.
* * * *
“Dal Wall”: For stupidity, allow me to
confer a biscuit on the emu. During October
they make their appearance along the No.
2 rabbit-proof fence, here in Groperland, and
spend weeks parading up and down trying
to make west. Mobs of 20 or so are fre-
quent at first, but settlement is bringing
motor traffic about, and leads to wholesale
slaughter. The birds appear to have no
idea of getting out of the way. At the first
sound of an engine they turn and run, but
very rarely turn into the bush. The road runs
alongside the fence, and they follow the fence.
I have heard of them making 35 miles an
hour, but my experience is that 25 is the
limit of the best of them. At 27 miles an
an hour the car scores a victim, unless the
driver respects his headlights and mudguards
and pulls out of the race.
i\t sjc
“Murrungurry”: I have found ’possums in
different parts of the bush bearing the regis-
tered ear-mark of the cattle-run on which
they lived, and branded and ear-marked kan-
garoos and Avallabies were not uncommon at
one time in some infested regions. Goannas
were sometimes decorated with a collar. I
was looking for horses when the intermittent
tinkling of a bell kept me wandering about
a particular spot in a puzzled manner. At
last I located the bell in a tree; a small,
polished tinkler it was, tied round the neck
of a 6ft. goanna. The lizard appeared to be
quite tame, and had evidently been some old
hatter’s pet.
(Continued on page 25A
THE DAYS OF BAMBINO DOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Whitty’s shanty, on the track to Koopa
Creek,
Was a place of humble looks an’ wide
renown ;
Blokes would land there with a pile, an’ in
a week
They wouldn’t ’ave as much as ’alf a
crown.
They could drown
A fortune in those days of lambin’ down.
There was old Morginty Bob, all straight
an’ trim,
Struck the shanty with his pockets bulgin’
out;
He’d the pick of all the Koopa under him,
An’ his pack’orse ’ad no equal thereabout;
But he’d shout,
An’ pretty soon the lot went up the spout.
There were ’ardened boozers waitin’ there
for jobs,
An’ though answerin’ to such names as
Jack an’ Pat,
Whitty’s ledger made ’em all Morginty Bobs,
An’ no one dreamed o’ contradictin’ that!
Bob was fat,
But the leeches couldn’t muster up a sprat.
Well. Morginty in a week or so would wake,
An’ ’twas time for him to think o’ getti-n’
back;
He was broke, an’ there was nothing more to
stake;
So, says Whitty, as he brought him out
his pack,
“Here’s a snack,
An’ a ’alf a flask o’ whisky for the track.’’
With his quart an’ scanty swag he’d tramp
away,
Revilin’ pubs that blocked the way to town.
But back he’d come ’ere long, full-rigged an’
gay ’
An’ he’d open up proceedings with a crown.
Poor old clown !
’Twas the anchor in the days of lambin’
down.
N.S.W.
E. S. SORENSON.


LS
A
gp
Sol
snnm
BRITISH
C3>
*i&
“fif AT
WTAih
©
JS
No. 39 SET. Contains the essentials for
perfect “Valet” shave the razor,
strop and three blades in leather-
ette-covered case
3 /-
Managing Agents for Australia * —
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Jyew Zealand Agents:
VAN STAVEREN BROS., Ltd., Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch.
“Slips along smoothly, doesn’t she?”
“Oh, you mean the car. . . .1 was looking
at the poster ”
“That slips along smoothly, too!”
“You use a Valet yourself?”
“Never used any other since I started
shaving.”
“Why so faithful?”
“Because it never lets me down. You
see, the blades are —”
“Ah, the blade’s the thing!”
“ —are stropped to perfection automati-
cally by a device in the razor itself.”
“Sounds good. But Ive no time in the
mornings.”
“Don’t need it! Ten seconds on the strop
without taking anything to pieces gives
you a blade as good as new.”
“Sounds ideal now! Where can I ?
“Any dealer’s. 3/-, 8/6 or 21/- for the
entire set, all with the same principle.”
DF
7
\
u
mm
m,
■m,
wm
-m
la^
xe a
Is
pet<* 1
>la^ e **
V £ss "•
WHATEVER may be your holi-i
day mood ... fishing; game|
hunting; alpine climbing ;|
i sight seeing ... you will be enthralled
by a change amid New Zealand’s be-
witching surroundings, a memorable
holiday at unexpectedly low cost.
Let us send you free literature and
details of fares. Use the coupon 1
NEW ZEALAND
GOV’T OFFICES
London Bank Chambers,
20 Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
59 William Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW— BUT
SDF
therefore it is Good!
At last a
Fire-safe
Electric
Iron—
&he
Universal
Super Automatic
BLACK
BUTTON
TURNS
CURRENT
OFF
r RED T
BUTTON
TURNS
CURRENT
k. ON J
Automatically cuts off the current as soon as the iron
gets too hot, and the current is off until you switch it on
again with the switch placed under your fingertips.
This means absolute safety. Call and see one to-day.
PRICE 45 1-
W. G. WATSON & CO. LTD.
279 Clarence Street, Sydney
29 Hunter Street, Newcastle
200 Queen Street, Melbourne
28 Coromandel Place, Adelaide
933 Hay Street, Perth
53 Charlotte Street, Brisbane
33 Argyle Street, Hobart.


NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting; Gelatine
Dynamite
Bafety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Hadfields
AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadlields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and l
Foundries i
Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W.
Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch [ 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Office j I. & G, Building, Brisbane, Q.
A WONDERFUL BODY BUILDER
*
MY ADVICE
TO YOU!
TAKE
AR
TONIC WINE
RELIEVES
EXHAUSTION
AB
AB
®S4§Bsif3§jP
TRADE MARK
REGISTERED'
BUILDS UP
THE SYSTEM
AFTER ILLNESS.
UULk
MHiOW*
Obtainable everywhere throughout Australia—
CHEMISTS, LICENSED GROCERS, HOTELS, etc.
Suppliers for N.S.W. and Q’land: McLaughlin & Co., Ltd., Comer Sussex and Hay Streets, Sydney.
„ „ West Australia Distillers Agency, Ltd., Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
_ . I Irvine & McEachern, Brisbane Street, Launceston.
„ „ Tasmania | Ferguson & Co., Murray Street, Hobart.
Sole Proprietors: ARNOLD BROS., A.B. Building, 527-529 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
“Toonooba”: The process of husking a
green cocoanut with the aid of a short-
pointed stake set in the ground is not so
simple as it appears when the Torres Strait
islander is at work. The tyro finds that to
acquire dexterity considerable practice is
necessary. Not long ago, when wandering
over Darnley Island, my assistant, saying
that the grove through which we passed be-
longed to his father, walked up a tree and
threw down several nuts. Being thirsty, I
operated for myself. One smack, and the
point of my geological hammer pierced the
husk and nut. When Burooma reached the
ground, he was astonished to find me enjoy-
ing the cooling milk. Pondering deeply, he
husked his nut on the stake provided. Then
I demonstrated my method. After that
“ham-mer belong you” was in constant
demand.
QUITE A DIFFERENT MATTER.
“I believe the last missioner was a very good cook, Moki?"
“Dunno ’bout that, taubada, but him make very fine meal.”
“Murkah”: “Cobar’s” par. (B. 5/12/’2B)
disagreeing with my claim that the magpie
is the champion stay-at-home was sub-
mitted to two observant bushmen. Both were
emphatic that Mag hangs around like a
chained dog, and expressed astonishment at
“Cobar’s” alleged extracts from Le Souef.
I accordingly secured Le Souef’s fine book.
If “Cobar” can show me where that autho-
rity makes the statements alleged I’ll buy
him a copy. Referring to Mag, he says:
“Both parents keen an eye on their offspring
practically up to the next breeding season,
and may occasionally be seen giving grubs
and other delicacies to full-grown birds.”
A Vic. observer quoted by Le Souef writes
that “the union [of magpies] is lifelong with
some of the birds, because one frequently
sees an old pair together in one locality stick-
ing to each other, in and out of season, for
years, and using the same tree to roost in.”
Both statements back my claim. “Cobar’s”
par. reads more like the doings of an alba-
tross. Perhaps he got them mixed.
. * * x *
“E.V.S.”: The origin of the New Guinea
“tailed men” myth is that certain cannibal
tribes, to whom were ascribed tails, were
in the habit of raiding a coastal village when
their larders needed replenishing. This so
depopulated the village that the victims
resorted to strategy. The next raid was met,
not with resistance, but food and the fairest
of the women. These attractions overcame
martial ardor and the two tribes fraternised.
It was then seen that the supposed tails
were the long ends of loincloths, tastefully
draped in trains at the rear. A feast was
arranged and the “tails” of the Mekeo can-
nibals on sitting down fell between the inter-
stices of the bamboo club-house floor. Beneath
the floor a few daring ones tied the tails
together. The villagers then got busy with
club and hatchet and settled the hash of the
Mekeo men. The fashion in loincloths
changed quickly.
* * * *
“The Rumpus” : Our street is infested with
all kinds of tripehounds, and each morning
they have a gladsome meeting, followed by a
joyous nosing and smelling in odd corners
all the way down the road. Frequent fights
occur, but quarrels are made up before the
day is done. Yesterday a snappy little Irish
terrier was greeting a big black mong. when
a motor-lorry dashed round the corner and
ran over the latter. He gave two yelps,
kicked convulsively and lay still. The little
tyke ran round and round his stricken com-
rade, then tried to help him to his feet by
nosing under his body. Finding the task
beyond his strength, he bolted home and
made such a fuss that his owner came and
followed him out of sheer curiosity. The
black dog was still warm but dead, and when
the terrier saw his master could not aid the
fallen he sat down and howled mournfully,
refusing to come home until the corpse was
taken into a near-by yard and buried.
*l® *i*
“Dargong”: Has anyone had unpleasant
experiences of the finger cherry (so called
on account of its articulations, which give
it a digital appearance), which is common
in parts of N.-E. Queensland? Last year two
native children at Yarrabah Mission became
totally blind after having eaten this fruit.
One recovered its sight completely in a
few days, but it was months before the other
was able to see anything clearly, and even
now, after nearly 12 months, the child’s
eyesight is badly affected. The natives here
tell of a scientist who visited the mission
10 or 12 years ago, and who warned them
against eating the cherries unless they wished
to become blind. From my investigations
I am of opinion that the injury is caused
by a fungus which spreads itself over the
fruit.
* * * s|c
“Larrapinta”: The out-back publican who,
according to “Ess” (B. 12/12/’2B), put the
horse’s feed back
in the tin as soon
as the prad’s owner
had turned his
back, was crude in
his methods. In
my time out back
the shanty-keeper
would welcome the
thirsty traveller,
lead his horse to
the stable, and give
it a generous mea-
sure of chaff. The
horse would wire
into its tucker, and
the owner would
make tracks for the
bar, satisfied that
his horse’s needs
were being attended
to. A few minutes
later Bung would
bolt back, put
nearly all the chaff
back in the bag, and
smear a little ran-
cid fat inside the
ho r s e’s nostrils.
After that the poor
brute wouldn’t
even eat oats, for
everything would
smell queer. When
the traveller depart-
ed Bung would take
care to point out
that the horse had
been given a good
feed —hadn’t eaten
it all, in fact —and
the guest would
call his name
blessed. Had the
shanty - keeper
acted as “Ess” de-
scribes, the chances
are ten to one that
the horse’s owner,
seeing an empty
manger and being
greeted by a hungry whinny, would dash his
hat on the ground and tell Bung that his
ancestors were bachelors and spinsters.
* * * *
“Pick” : Shearing was on at Ando (N.S.W.)
and we were mustering the back paddocks
when seven eagles appeared, skimming the
rocky points and tussocky valleys of the
range. In whirling circles the big fellows
traversed the hillsides, their wings flapping
the grass tops. They spiralled aloft and vol-
planed back to earth, beating
through the thickets and the thistle
patches. Presently with one long
ear stretched back and a springing
kick of his hind legs, a full-grown
hare bolted from the gully grass,
and fled over the bare summit of
the hill. At once the platoon of
hooky beaks, like bolts from the
sky, tore after the fugitive as he
raced madly down the spur. They
threshed him to the ground with
long winged flaps, and bowled him
over with vicious strokes of their
outstretched talons. Plunging ahead
two of the birds wheeled upon the
bewildered quarry. They clawed
him in the air as he jumped to
evade them, and rolled yards in the
dust with him as he struggled fran-
tically to free himself and dodge
the attacks of his other tormentors.
The poor harassed fellow’s speed
was much reduced and he wore a
very bedraggled appearance when,
after a quarter of an hour’s gruel-
ling chase, he labored painfully
along close to a wire-netting fence,
which afforded some shelter against
the assaults. Then he sought the
protection of the sheep we were
driving. Our dogs regarded him as
an easy catch, but we cursed them
off, while the escapee, mingled with the
friendly woollies. Deprived of their victim
the eagles corkscrewed away into the blue
overhead.
x ■ * * *
“C. Coral”: Touching those incidents of
“dispersals” of the blacks in Queensland
half a century ago, there is some not over-
creditable history recorded in the recently-
published life of Robert Christison, of Lam-
mermoor. Some of the “dispersals” were mere
butcheries, in which innocent tribes fre-
quently suffered. When the Sperwer tra-
gedy took place in the ’sixties, a punitive
expedition from Somerset wiped out some
hundreds of Prince of Wales natives. Eight
months later another expedition set out,
unaware that the first had done its work
so effectually, and, failing to find any of the
tribe sought for, rounded up a crowd at Wed-
nesday Island who had had nothing to do with
the tragedy. The officer-in-cliarge, the late
Lieutenant Chester, was refreshingly candid
in his report. Writing to the Colonial Sec-
retary, he says, “These men, having been
handed over to me by Lieutenant Markham,
were shot by the troopers.”
OVER THE ODDS.
FIRST CIVIL SERVANT: “I hear Jones was sacked yesterday.”
SECOND DITTO: “Yes; the silly ass brought his pyjamas to
the office.”
“Claude W.”: In the South Burnett (Q.)
district recently, during the absence of his
parents in town, a boy of 11 was walking
through a paddock near the cowyard when he
was bitten on the big toe by a black snake.
Realising his danger, the lad tried to suck
the poison out of his toe, but could not get
it into his mouth. Thereupon he rushed to
the dairy, soaked his foot in milk and allowed
a calf that was in the yard to suck his
poisoned toe. The calf proved a strong
sucker, extracted the poison and saved the
lad’s life. The calf was seriously ill for
several days, but ultimately recovered.
* * * *
“Bad Australian” : A native-bear will roost
in the fork of a big gum-tree exposed to
rain, hail or snow for days together without
apparent injury or even discomfort, and it
takes a lot of hard weather to kill a ’possum,
even when caught in a trap; but for down-
right tenacity in clinging to his vital spark,
give me the native cat. I recall an occasion
on which I set a couple of rabbit-traps for
a big black-pointed silver-grey mountain
’possum at the foot of an old messmate-tree
near my humpy,’ and in the morning I found
a cat anchored fore and aft. Although the
night had been miserably cold and wet he
was full of fight and as vicious as a copper-
head when I tried to release him. The
wombat is another tough proposition. He
doesn’t care whether it rains_, hails or snows,
and I have seen him fast in a snare busy
tearing up everything within his sphere of
influence after 30 hours of cold heavy rain.
On the other hand, the black wallaby, which
is generally regarded as a very hardy animal,
rarely survives a night’s exposure to cold,
rainy weather when held in a springer.
* * * *
“Up North” : “Wingella’s” American doctor
(B. 28/11/’2B) shows a lack of practical
experience by asserting that fat men stand
heat better than thin ones do. That isn’t
the case in N. Q’land, anyway, where the
large majority of toilers are on the skinny
side. A six-foot human hairpin will stand
the heat far better than a man with' an alder-
manic corporation; and the little cove who is
all sinew and bones is the best worker of
the lot. There is one sort of fat man in the
tropics who can last out with the best, but
he seems indigenous to the climate. In the
war, on long marches in the desert on a
short allowance of the hardest possible food
with very little water, it was the fat men
who felt distress first. The same rule applies
to animals. A fat horse cannot be expected
to pull the same load as a prad in good
condition.
IF ONLY I HAD OLD BILL HERE.
[For The Bulletin.]
“Quick! Crowd ’em in, a few more yet;
Don’t stand there wavin’ hats an’ boughs
An’ wipin’ off the dust an’ sweat.
You dam’ well might be drivin’ cows,
You set of skim-milk, knock-kneed cronks.
Stand further back there! Not so near!
You pommies should be leadin’ donks....
If only I had old Bill here!
“Why I sacked Bill, damned if / know.
He knew this job from end to end,
A’ now I’m hoarse as any crow
An’ swallow flies an’ sheepyard blend
Tryin’ to make you understand.
Hey! Think you’re steerin’ ferry boats?
’Struth! Can’t you see the big tar brand?
O Lord! If old Bill saw you goats!
“I never had to use hard words,
Or even tell him what to do.
He knew —but now you useless birds
Jus’ keep a man fair in a stew.
Not that dam’ way! Get further round !
I’d have you, swag-up, down the track,
An’ trampin’ home-an’-mother bound,
If only I had old Bill back !
“An’ now I s’pose I’m stuck for hours.
Oh, get outside the blasted rails!
Merciful saints an’ heavenly powers,
You’ve knocked me flat an’ language fails'.
Beats me how men with porridge brains
Can look a wether in the face
An’ think themselves the better strains....
If only old Bill had your place!
“Cripes, there he is! Well here’s a gift.
Hey, Bill! Hop in an’ take the gate
An’ give these sons of dogs a lift.
Blue murder! What’s he up to? Wait!
Not that way, Bill, you muttonhead!
You might be just a kid from school.
O Hell! I wish that I was dead.
O Bill! You blitherin, flamin’ fool!”
S.A.
BILL O’C.


OurServiceDepartment
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Returned soldier (34), single, station
bookkeeper, experienced sheep, cattle and
engines, knowledge bush carpentry, wants
position assist outside work. Three years
present job.—S157.
Young man (28), now overseer-manager,
seeks position, Sydney, wool firm or stock and
station business. Lifelong experience sheep,
knowledge all classes of small internal com-
bustion engines, present salary £250 p.a.—
8151.
Young girl would like to hear from readers
(other sex preferred) who would make New
Year resolution to write frequently on inter-
esting topics such as sport and movies.—
8143.
Young man would like to correspond with
Bulletin readers, especially Pacific Islands ;
interested in photography and stamp-collect-
ing. All letters answered. (To B. A. Shields,
Moore-street, Rochester, Vic.)
Overseer seeks position, Western N.S.W.
or Q’land sheep station; sound knowledge all
classes station work and stock. Commence
early New Year. —8147.
Youth (19) desires position on steamer
gping overseas or elsewhere. Not afraid of
hard work. —8174.
To buy copy of “The Dinky-Di Soldier and
Other Jingles,” by Norman Campbell.—8166.
To buy copy of Whitfield, King and Co.’s
stamp catalogue.—S167.
Will reader who made inquiries relating
to Dawson Valley (Q.) irrigation scheme
send name and address to Service Depart-
ment?
Particulars of country newsagency that
will bear strict investigation and can be
financed with £2000 cash. (To H. James,
c/o Box 40, P.O., Corowa.)
Whereabouts of Mr. Ellis, proprietor of
Ellis’s Coffee Palace, 50 King-street, Sydney,
about 25 years ago?—8169.
Name of poet who wrote the lines: —
You loitered on the road too long;
You trifled at the gate.
They are quoted in one of Montague’s books.
—8150A.
Victorian lady would like to communicate
with readers interested in sport, pictures,
reading and writing, with view to exchanging
holiday later on. —8170.
Information Sought.
What is the cause of goldfish gaping on
the surface of their tank water? A change
of water seems to help them, hut a number
have died. How should they he fed, and
should sand or soil he placed at the bottom
of the tank? —8154.
A lack of aeration is indicated. Either
the tank is overcrowded with fish or unsuit-
able for the purpose, and insufficient weeds
are being grown. There should be not more
than an inch of fish to a gallon of water.
The best weeds to plant are Sagittaria and
Vallisneria, which can be obtained from
dealers. If the weeds are well established
they do all the oxygenation required, and
it is not necessary to change the water.
Indeed, repeated changes of water are in-
jurious. The goldfishes should be fed too
little rather than too much; good prepared
foods can be obtained from dealers, but
mosquito larvae, chopped up earthworms,
oatmeal prepared as for the breakfast table,
powdered shrimp, dried fish roe or dried
bread crumbs are satisfactory. An occa-
sional change of diet is desirable. Feed once
a day. Coarse sand, without the addition
of soil, is to be preferred.
How can / enter the dental profession in
N.S.W.?— 8122.
By passing an education exam, equiva-
lent to the standard for entry to the Sydney
Uni. and prescribed tests in dental sub-
jects. Full details are given in the
“Regulations of the Dental Board of
N.S.W.,” obtainable from the Government
Printer. Then you will need, to satisfy the
Dental Board that (a) you are of good char-
acter and not less than 21 years of age, and
(b) that for a period of not less than four
years you have been acquiring a professional
knowledge of dentistry.
(1) Where can I take a practical course
in tanning and leather-dressing in Sydney,
and what theoretical subjects arc obligatory?
(2) Time for completion of the course? (3)
What textbooks would I need to study? —
8160.
(1) At the Sydney Technical College,
John and Botany streets, Waterloo. To
secure complete technical training students
must take mathematics I and II, inorganic
and organic chemistry and physics I at the
Technical College, Ultimo. On the practical
side special attention is given to the pre-
paration of chrome leather. (2) Three
years ; and provision is made for those who
have completed the prescribed course to
undertake research work on ordinary class
nights. (3) H. R. Proctor’s “Principles
of Leather Manufacture” and “Leather In-
dustries Laboratory Book”; M. C. Lamb’s
“Leather Dressing” and “Chrome Tanning”;
J. T. Wood’s “Puering, Bating and Drench-
ing of Skins”; A. S. Jones’s “The Sheep
and its Skin”; A. Wilson’s “The Chemistry
of Tanning”; and W. E. Austin’s “Fur
Dressing and Fur Dyeing.”
A tyro wants a few wrinkles about parts
of a car engine that require most attention.
—8044.
Keep oil in crank-case at correct level, and
fill radiator with water when required. Top
the accumulator with distilled water until
level is above the top of the plates. Care-
fully oil all parts as per instructions sup-
plied with oiling chart. Check valve clear-
ance and magneto points, and clean spark-
plugs occasionally. Suggest that you study
the instructions supplied with your particu-
lar car.
A Maorilandcr wants to go rabbiting in
N.S.W. What are good districts, and how
should he go about getting an area to trap
0n?— 8129.
Murrurundi, and in the Upper Hunter
Valley. The only way to secure an area to
trap is by personal application to the land-
holder.
When was “‘Greystanes,” Prospect
(N.S.W.), erected? As the near-by Western-
road was built by convict labor, was the old
home the headquarters of the commandant?
Was the old brick building on the south side
used to house convicts? —8038.
The date of erection cannot be found, but
the house was never the headquarters of the
commandant of convict labor. It was built
for Nelson Lawson. If any of the occupants
had convicts assigned to them as servants
it is possible that the old outbuildings may
have been used by such servants, but the
old buildings were never used in the sense
of barracks for convicts.
(1) Why isn’t olive oil exported from Aus-
tralia? (2) Is the Australian olive oil of
good quality? —Bl72.
(1) Because production is in the neigh-
borhood of 10,000 gallons annually (it has
been known to go up to 30,000 gallons), and
consumption is about 150,000 gallons. Aus-
tralian seasons are variable, and yields of
oil differ greatly. On the other side of the
world, although production varies, it main-
tains a fairly high level per hectare on the
average. (2) When handled by experienced
pressers, it is of very good—in some cases,
extraordinarily good—quality.
A cheap and sure way of killing Johnstone
grass in cultivation paddocks? —Bo26.
Use Cooper’s “Weedicide” at a strength of
1 to 15. The soil should be previously loos-
ened round the roots to permit of the solu-
tion having easy access; it may "be necessary
where the soil is badly infested to apply on
two or three occasions. The preparation is
obtainable from Buzacotts, Ltd.. Adelaide-
street, Brisbane; 12s. 6d. per single drum
or £2 12s. 6d. for 5-gallon containers, f.o.b.
Brisbane.
What progress is being made with the
scheme to build a paper-pulp factory at
Maryborough (Q.)1 —7524.
The company has an option over 4000
acres of land, and is in touch with the Irri-
gation Department with regard to a water
supply, a million gallons per day being men-
tioned. That is all that can be ascertained.
Jones and Dymock, Bazaar-street, Mary-
borough, may supply further information.
I am a holder of pref. shares in a co.
which each year has shown a small profit;
but numerous improvements were needed, and
are still needed, so no div. has been paid. Is
the co. liable to the pref. shareholders up to
the extent of the profit made? —8136.
Some pref. shares are cumulative, others
are not. If they are not cumulative, and
there are no special provisions, they are not
entitled to any dividends until the same are
authorised and declared. Even if profits
are made, such prefs. are not entitled to
them —unless, of course, there was a special
provision to the contrary in the prospectus.
If shares were issued as cumulative prefs.
then, unless again there were special provi-
sions to the contrary, shareholders are
entitled to their 7 p.c. p.a. (or whatever
the rate may be) out of the profits from
the date of the allotment of the shares, even
if in some years a loss was made.
(1) Is superphosphate v.x its raw state
mined for or dredged? (2) Where? (3)
What does super, consist of? —7593.
(1) Superphosphate is not a natural pro-
duct ; the phosphate from which it is made is
mined. (2) Phosphate is mined in various
parts of the world, principally Morocco,
Tunis, Algeria, Egypt, Florida and several
Pacific islands, including Ocean and Nauru.
(3) Raw phosphate finely ground and mixed
with sulphuric acid, which has the effect of
making the phosphoric acid soluble and avail-
able for plants.
(1) The pay in the R. A. Air Force, officers
and men? (2) What is the airscrew on an
aeroplane? (3) What are the rudder bars?
—BOO3.
(1) Rates are given in R.A.A.F. Publica-
tion Nos. 3 and 4. to be had free from the
Air Board, Victoria Barracks, Melbourne;
they would take up too much space here. (2)
The airscrew of an aeroplane is the propel-
ler, which, when rotated by the engine, sup-
plies the thrust to draw the aeroplane for-
ward. (3) A rudder bar is a horizontal bar
mounted on a central vertical pivot, and
actuated by the pilot’s feet on footholds at
its ends. The movement of the rudder bar
actuates the rudder, the connection being
usually through steel wire cable controls.
Qualifications and duties of a surveyor’s
chainman.? How long would it take one to
learn the j0b? —7622.
Any man of ordinary intelligence can be
a surveyor’s chainman; he must, however,
be physically fit and observant. A chainman
is a surveyor’s laborer, and his duties natu-
rally are to do as the surveyor wishes; he
must be able to read a tape or chain, use
an axe, use a plumbob and assist a sur-
veyor in “running lines.” It is essential that
he should be able to use his commonsense
and be able to anticipate some of the diffi-
culties that a surveyor may encounter. The
chainman has generally to work ahead of the
surveyor, and unless the chainman has some
idea what is required of him it is necessary
to go and tell him, which, of course, is waste
of time. A surveyor’s duties are numerous
and varied, and the routine of one class of
survey may be quite different from another,
so that the experience gained on one class
of work would not necessarily mean that a
chainman is qualified in another class. Gen-
erally speaking, after about a month’s experi-
ence with one surveyor on one class of work
a man would be able to do all that is re-
quired of him.
How to repair portion of an asphalt path;
about 4 ft. is badly worn and loose, the rest
being in good order. What quantity of
materials would be required? —7614.
The broken portion should be picked up
and broken down to a 14-inch gauge ; then
tarred, re-laid, well rammed and finished
with lin. thickness of tarred blue metal top-
ping, fine stuff, same to be well rammed and
sanded. The cracks should be cut out to
a width of 3in. by a depth of 3in., then filled
in with 2in. of tarred blue metal and lin. of
tarred blue metal topping, well rammed. The
remaining portion of the path which is
described as good should be coated with hot
tar, well sanded ; about 5 square yards to the
gallon of hot tar. The quantity of tar re-
quired to mix one kerosene-tin asphalt or
blue metal would be 14 gallons. Metal
asphalt mixed ready for use can be obtained
at 3s. per cwt.
The formulae of FehUng’s No. 1 and No. 2
Solution? —8105. nn nA
No. 1: Copper sulphate in crystals, 36.64
grammes; sulphuric acid, 0.50 millilitre; dis-
tilled water sufficient to produce 500.00 milli-
litres ; dissolve. No. 2: Sodium potassium
tartrate, 176 grammes; sodium hydroxide, 77
grammes ; distilled water sufficient to produce
500 millilitres. Mix equal volumes of solu-
tions No. 1 and No. 2 at the time of using.
The open season for fishing in the Federal
Capital Territory? Is any permit required?
—7952.
The open season for trout-fislung com-
mences on October 1 and closes on the first
Wednesday after Easter. A permit is not
required.
What would be a fair price for concreting
a kerb and gutter in Sydney? —Bo34.
It would depend upon the design. For
kerb 6in. high, 6in. wide at top and 7sin.
at gutter level, and for gutter 18in. wide,
sin. deep at lip and 4in. deep at face of
kerb, a fair price would be 12s. per lin. yd.,
the price being based on metal at 13s. 6d.
per ton, sand at 9s. per ton and cement at
£5 Bs. per ton.
(1) Can you put me in touch with an
agent who would exploit a patent of mine?
(2) In the alternative, what about arrang-
ing with someone to manufacture it and put
it on the market? (3) How could Ibe sure
of getting hold of a good agent? (4) Do
advertising firms take on contracts to in-
crease present sales? (5) How would a man
with no capital go about forming a company?
How would one get a reliable promoter, and
what share does a promoter usually get? —
7809.
(1) We know of no agents who make, a
business of exploiting inventions. (2 and 3)
The method most likely to lead to satisfactory
business would be to submit a specification
and sketch (or a rough model) of the inven-
tion to any of the firms manufacturing the
class of article, having first obtained pro-
visional protection for your invention; this
can be obtained for about £5 ss. through
any of the firms of patent attorneys adver-
tising in our columns. It will cover you for
nine months, during which period you can
make, vend and exhibit your invention with
perfect safety. (4) Not to our knowledge.
(5) The usual procedure is (having secured
your title as explained) to form a small local
syndicate among your acquaintances, and
then place the matter in the hands of any
reputable firm of brokers to float the syndi-
cate into a company. It is desirable that
such syndicate should contain at least one
competent business man.
Could you advise me, a working man, how
to invest £I2OO, a life's savings? —8159.
This is a vast question. The reply neces-
sarily can cover very little ground. First,
the investor mast decide what he wants—
big return or sound security ? You can’t
have both —anyway, not to start with. The
better the security the less the interest. The
latter starts at about 44 p.c., and when it
has passed 64 p.c. the risks begin to be
substantial. Now, ricks are not the same to
all men. For instance, a man who is in a
position to get inside information about a
stock and to act quickly can afford to handle
a stock which would be too risky for others
without those advantages. The trouble is not
to buy, but to sell. It is to help just such
people as No. 8159 that the ‘’Wild Cat”
Monthly is published. It gives the return
you can get from almost every share and
stock listed in Australia. There are other
things besides stocks and shares, of course —
mortgages, for example. To let out money
on mortgage it is almost always necessary to
do it through a solicitor; and, though all soli-
citors gentlemen by law, it doesn’t follow
that they will remain gentlemen. Therefore,
great caution is necessary in handing over
money to them for investment.
(1) I wish to become an estate-agent in
Sydney. Any good books on the subject? (2)
What are the main things to get to know?
(3) Where can further information be
obtained ? —BIO4.
(1) Reimer and Tebbutt’s “Agency Law
and Principles” and Zillman’s “Real Estate
Accounts.” (2) Comparative values, how to
talk to possible purchasers lucidly and in a
way to inspire confidence, and so how to sell
a property. (3) Apply to the Real Estate
Institute, 30A Martin-place, Sydney; it will
supply you with a set of forms which will
be an education in themselves.
In “Coonardoo” (Chap. 26,* B. 21/11/’2B)
the authoress writes of “big-horned four-
year-old bullocks, calves of spayed cows, who
were giving all the trouble.'’ Isn’t this
wrong? Spayed cows don’t have calves.•
8165. . . , jj.
On stations where spaying is practised to
eliminate breeding from the poorer class of
cow, and to insure their fattening quickly,
it sometimes happens that a cow is in calf
when the operation is performed. After the
calf is dropped the cow often remains in
milk for three or four years. It is not
uncommon to see a fully-grown bullock with
great horns sucking his mother; and parting
the two involves trovers in no end of
trouble. Frequently such a bullock breaks
away from the night camp and makes back
to his run and his mother.
(l)Ot’er what minimum must a single man
in Vic. pay State and Federal income-tax?
(2) What deduction is allowable for money
sent home to parents? (3) For life-assur-
ance premiums? (4) When must returns he
lodged f —7948.
(.1) For State purposes, £2Ol. Common-
wealth, £3Ol. (2) None. (3) Premiums up
to £SO. (4) Returns must be lodged by July
31 each year.
A method whereby I can find the neces-
sary degrees past dead centre in timing a
motor engine? —Bll6.
On the flywheel will usually be found a
line sometimes marked T.D.C. Set this line
about sdeg. ahead of the centre line of the
engine (on compression stroke) and place the
spark adjustment fully advanced. Set mag-
neto with points just breaking and clamp
all securely. For high-speed engines the set-
ting could be as much as 15deg. ahead of
the centre line, but for big engines in the
hands of the average driver the above setting
is recommended. In cases where the fly-
wheel is not marked remove the spark plug
and insert a knitting-needle into the cylinder
so as to ascertain when the piston is at the
end of the stroke. For the compression
stroke both inlet and outlet valves are closed.
Where parents are of different creeds,
which can claim the right of baptising and
training the children in his or her belief? —
8156.
In the absence of good reason to the con-
trary a father has the right to determine in
what religion his infant child shall be
brought up. Of that right he cannot be
deprived unless, by reason of moral miscon-
duct or on other sufficient ground, the Court
is satisfied that he is not a fit person to
exercise it. The right continues till the
child attains full age.
Brief Answers.
Andrew G.: Certainly not; don’t think of
doing such a thing. That “authorised capital”
means nothing at all. We knew a concern with an
“authorised capital” of £200,000 and a subscribed
capital of £7 A.D.: Out of print; it was pub-
lished in 1918 by Tyrells, Sydney A.P.: Get in
touch with J. S. Strong, Motor Section, Australian
Association of British Manufacturers, Barrack House,
Sydney... .V.M.: Family endowment is not allowed in
N.S.W. to persons in receipt of the widow’s pension
or aid from the Child Welfare Department... .C.C.C.:
(1) Alfred A. Knopf, 730 Fifth-avenue; G. P. Put-
nam’s Sons, 2 West 45th-street; Doubleday, Page and
Cos., Garden City ; D. Appleton and Cos., 29 Went 32nd-
street—all of New York. (2) Any leading city
typist. (3) A. G. Stephens, Box 711 G.P.0., Sydney,
might do It for you. (4) It is a proof of the book
before it has been actually printed and on which
final corrections are made. (5) Such errors should
be adjusted before you send it to a publisher: if
there are many, it would handicap acceptance.
Publishers, as a rule, do not tinker with an author’s
work. .. .T.E.M.K.: (1) According to section 18 of
the N.S.W. Pharmacy Act, “where the business of
a pharmacist is being carried on in an open shop,
such business must be in charge of a registered
pharmacist.” (2) and (3) Try Elliott Bros., Ltd.,
O’Connell-street, or the Australian Drug Cos., Ltd.,
Carrington-street—both of Sydney. (4) Particulars
of businesses for sale may be obtained from either
of the two Anns mentioned... .J.R.11.: (1) A. J.
Campbell’s “Nests and Eggs of Australian Birds”
(1901) is catalogued at present at £7 10s. (2)
A first edition (three vols.) of Kingsley’s “Geoffry
Hamlyn” should bring about £2 155., if in good
order... .C.L.8.G.: Captain Ritchie was never
Governor of Northern Tasmania, but served on the
military establishment about 1806. The Northern
Command of Tasmania existed only from 1804 to
1812, and in that period the only administrators of
that portion of the island were Captain Murray
and Lieut. Edward Lord; each had the title of
Commandant H.C.: (1) For positions in the
Papua and Mandated Territory Government services,
apply to the Home and Territories Department, Can-
berra. (2) Communicate with Burns, Philp, Bridge-
street, or W. R. Carpenter and Cos., 19-21 O’Connell-
street —both of Sydney C.E.: Qualifications re-
quired of applicants for naturalisation: (1) Con-
tinuous residence in Australia or a Territory for not
less than one year immediately preceding application,
and previous residence in Australia or in some other
part of the Empire for four years' within eight
years before the application; (2) good character
and an adequate knowledge of the language; (3)
intention to settle in the Empire... .M. 0.: It would
appear that the only control possessed by the vestry
is over the church land. The vestry does not con-
stitute the club, and the permission granted by the
Shire Council to use shire land for the two extra
courts was granted to the club, not to the vestry.
So it is hard to see how the vestry can exercise
any control as to these courts.... M.C.S.: Raymond
Unwin’s “Town Planning in Practice”; H. Inigo
Trigg’s “Town Planning”; Robinson’s “Modern
Civic Art” T.H.: “Banjo” Paterson states that
he never heard of the gentleman who is claimed to
be the original “Clancy of the Overflow” and “Man
from Snowy River” V.D.: Question too vague.
Further particulars, please!... .P.K.8.: Under the
Federal Income-tax Act an absentee taxpayer is not
entitled to any statutory exemption or to deductions
on account of children, or of insurance premiums
paid outside Australia. Under the new N.S.W.
Income Tax (Management) Act, a statutory exemp-
tion of £SO is allowable in such cases... . A.S.:
Miss B. Wilson, Miss Heinricks or Miss Wieckhardt,
all of Musgrove’s music warehouse, Murray-street,
Perth R.K.W.: American Sheep-breeder and
Wool-grower, 817 Exchange-street, Chicago, 111.,
U.S.A.; 10 cents per copy; it is a monthly journal,
It uses photographs; don’t know whether it will
accept photos, of Australian sheep... .A.M.: W.
Alexander and Cos., Parramatta-road, Petersham, are
Sydney agents for Berliet cars, and Advanx Ty-re-
pair Cos., 69 William-street, for Bugattis... .1.A.8.:
The French Government founded two scholarships for
students of Sydney Uni. to enable those selected
to continue studies at an approved French university.
Particulars can be got from the Registrar
G.D.T.: (1) The use of the title “doctor” by
Bachelors of Medicine is sanctioned by British law
and usage. According to Webster the definition of
“doctor” is “one duly licensed to practise medicine.”
(2) A divorced woman, as a matter of law, can
retain the name of the man from whom she was
divorced, and the title of “Mrs.,” or she may
resume her maiden name and the title of “Miss.”
It is a matter of taste, and choice is usually governed
by circumstances... .P.G.: It is usual to forward
replies to “Wants” to the address given on the
coupon; if the advertiser prefers, replies can be
collected at the office M.R.: Write to the Com-
missioner, Royal Canadian Mounted Police, Ottawa,
Canada H.E.S.: Suggest you communicate with
the War Memorial Advisory Committee, Education
Buildings, Bridge-street, Sydney A.W.: Where a
married man applies for a passport to travel abroad
without his wife, it is the practice to see that
arrangements are made for his wife’s support during
his absence, or that he leaves with the lady’s know-
ledge and written consent. Write the Passport Officer,
Customs House, Sydney.... (Many others mailed.)


w
to
*
*
ft
as
v*
A*
51
XT
TO
*
W!
«W
if
;^~
»N\
m
1
E3
*£
V
&
m
ft.
fcifirfi
«
5?f
Y
fZfV'N^
a
i'
s
3
£
a
*’• *
Three Fine Cars
’X=*e, lir Jj/ i
Now Finer Than Ever
These marked improvements in Dodge Brothers famous sixes
are now offered for your approval.
THE NEW VICTORY SIX. More room, with longer body
and wider, more comfortable seats. Wider windows give
greater breadth of vision. Victory smartness greatly enhanced
—Victory pick-up, riding ease and roadability in a roomier and
more richly appointed car
THE NEW SENIOR SIX. Bigger, finer, faster. A truly
smart car, now made more luxurious, and equipped throughout
with the finest appointments. Long, low and graceful lines;
modish and enduring hues.
THE NEW STANDARD SIX. A staunch and dependable
car to which has been added new appointments, and decided
improvements in body design and construction. Roomier, with
more comfortable seats, and a more luxurious interior. And
Dodge Brothers dependability of performance.
Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Victoria) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne •
Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane — Townsville.
Waymouth Motor Co., Ltd., Adelaide .
Winterbottom Motor Co., Ltd., Perth.
Harden and Johnston, Limited, Sydney.
Northern Automobile*, Ltd., Auckland, N.Z.
Amuri Motors, Ltd. Christchurch, N.Z,
Gossena and Black, Ltd. .. Dunedin, N.Z,
P. H. Vickery, Ltd. .. Invercargill, N.Z.
'Newton King, Ltd. .. New Plymouth,
Magnus Motors, Ltd. .. Wellington, NJZ.
Dodge Brothers Corporation
DETROIT, MICHIGAN
9/1/29


PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
Quality—V alue—Service.
During January, the month for
renewing school outfits, Peapes’
service to youths and boys is par-
ticularly appreciable.
Every requirement for school wear
can be obtained in the one
Department at Peapes’, and goods
will be marked with student’s
name and delivered direct to
school or college, if desired.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
U
SSnfc
«L\/
mm
X
i y
N,~
"Its Quality Never Changes.”
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
The
Clip
...
may be small or large in size, attractive or otherwise
in quality and condition. That’s not the point. Every
o-rade of wool and every bale or even bag of it has
its correct market value. And if this, action is taken
that full value will be secured.
Send the Wool to
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
Selling Brokers, I»TD.
SYDNEY or BRISBANE,
Who secure growers highest possible figures for every
bale or bag they sell.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
GROW YOUR OWN SEEDS.
“XSA”: Men on the land will soon be
considering the problem of next season’s seed,
and, with the exception of some of the
wheat men and a few others who are shrewd
enough to select and reserve seeds for them-
selves, they are faced with a lot of risk. Can-
didly and generally speaking, such a thing
as reliable seed is not on the market. It is
procurable only from the very few growers
who are not afraid to submit their plots to
expert examination.
We all know that it is as easy to grow
good stuff as it is to grow rubbish, and that
the labor entailed is the same in either
case. It is also agreed that there is far too
much dirty seed about, and that farmers have
to sow it because they can’t get anything
better.
Circumstances conspire to thrust the
worst, instead of the best, of seed on to the
market. It comes from the cereal crop
failure that produced just sufficient to sell as
seed; from potato crops not worth lifting
save for seed or from culls little better than
pig-feed. Seed oats may be, and probably
are, labelled thus in order to secure a
bigger price per bushel. There is no guaran-
tee of any kind, and no responsibility is
accepted by the grower or vendor. Tomatoes
not good enough for pulping, due possibly to
disease, provide the seed for next year’s
supply, and melon seed is collected mostly
from stuff unfit for market.
There’s only one moral to the sad story.
The man on the land should mark special
plots for seed and save his own. The pio-
neers did this, partly because they had to;
and John Chinaman still does it, because he
knows it pays.
SHEEP-FARMING ECONOMICS.
“Rington”: The average small grazier
doesn’t worry much about book-keeping and
doesn’t know, most of the time, whether he’s
heading for a profit or a deficit, even in a
favorable season. Here are a few estimates,
based on some years of practical experience
in N.'S.W.,* that may help him. to acquire a
more business-like frame of mind.
Sheep-to-the-acre land is reasonably priced
at £4 per acre. Wethers are dear just now,
but when the dry spell breaks it is probable
that high-class young wool-growers will bring
£1 per head. So that the cost of land and
sheep may be set down at £5 per acre, on
which interest must be earned and at a
higher rate than in less risky undertakings, i
Let’s put it at 74 p.c., on which basis I
the annual costs per sheep should be: —
s. d.
Interest on £5 at 7* p.c. .. .. ..7 6
Shearing, etc. .. .. . . . . ..10
Other attention .. .. . . .. ..20
Depreciation .. .. .. ..26
Total 13 0
The cost of attention is based on the rural
wage of nearly £4 a week,, and involves the
assumption that one man can look after
2000 sheep. It is assumed, too, that the
small-flock grazier will look after his
own sheep and that this 2s. per head
is his keep for the year. If he makes any-
thing besides, it can be considered as profit.
Depreciation looks large, but a young wether
soon becomes an old one. If it is worth 20s.
as a rising 4-tooth, the grazier will be
lucky to get much more than 10s. for it' three
years later, from which point of view the
allowance is under, rather than over, the
mark.
The half-drown for depreciation won’t
cover drought losses, and no attempt has been
made to average that risk. On the other
hand, no account has been taken here of
lambs.
It costs at least 13s. to run a sheep for
a year by my reckoning. What income per
sheep can be expected? With the price
of wool at recent rates, with good sheep and
with reasonably good seasons, the small
grazier has a justifiable hope of making
that sum, but it would not be wise to esti-
mate much in excess. It is a good lot of
wethers which cuts an average of 101 b. of
wool and at 20d. per lb. the income would
be 16s Bd. But there are many hundred
thousand wethers shorn every year which
don’t cut 101 b. or anything like it.
To make small- and moderate-scale grazing
pay, therefore, the essentials are good land,
good sheep, good wool prices and good seasons.
The two last items of the combination are
outside the control of the grazier, who must
take his chance. But any sort of farming
is more or less of a gamble.
MESQUITE AS FODDER.
“W.P.D.”: Six or seven, years ago a
Queensland friend of mine brought from
Honolulu some seeds of the algaroba-tree
(mesquite) and planted them in the streets
of Winton and at his station, Devoncourt,
near Cloncurry. This tree, known elsewhere
also as the carob bean, bears pods which
are valuable as fodder for stock, and are
palatable and highly nutritious. The pods
vary from five to ten inches in length, and
carry about a dozen large seeds. The tree
bears for four months, and carries a heavy
crop. In addition to the value of the pods for
fodder mesquite is hard, durable timber, very
suitable for fencing, and is a useful shade
tree. The climatic conditions of Western
Queensland seem to suit it. During the
late, long-continued drought in the Winton
district the trees have had an awful gruelling,
and at a time when practically all besides in
the way of plant growth died for lack of
water, the mesquite remained alive and flour-
ishing. This year over 3000 seeds from the
trees at Winton and Devoncourt have been
distributed, and there seems to be no reason
why they should not do just as well as the
parent trees and prove a welcome addition
to our stock-fodder plants. Both pod and
seed have high food value, the seed being
equal to barley for fattening horses, cattle
or pigs. The tree begins to bear at four
years old, carrying a fair crop the first year,
and this increases greatly as the tree
develops. Planting is done in spring or early
Thousands of men fail on the land because they don t know how to
succeed; many thousands more succeed less than they should because
they lack proper guidance.
“The Bulletin” wants to encourage farmers and scientists who know
to help those who don’t know.
With that object it offers two prizes of £2O and £lO for the most
useful contributions to the ’’Land pages during the six months
ending June 30 next.
All contributions submitted, whether published or not, will be con-
sidered in awarding points, and the prizes will go to the winners
of most points.
Points will be awarded for interest and practical usefulness.
The prizes are additional to the usual payment for published
contributions.
summer; the pods ripen in early summer
and drop to the ground when mature. The
tree, according to the Queensland Govern-
ment Botanist (Mr. C. T. White), attains a
height of 60ft. to 70ft, but I have never heard
of the carob bean reaching those figures
in Australia.
PINK-EYE.
“Codon” : Pink-eye is reported to be affect-
ing sheep in many parts of N.S.W. This is
a disease which is prevalent during the
summer months and is very contagious. The
Agricultural Department has issued some
very learned directions for treatment, but
many practical sheepmen prefer to treat it
on the “let-it-alone” principle. Being con-
tagious, the more sheep are congregated
together the more likely are they to contract
it. Mustering a mob in order to treat the
affected ones will rapidly spread the disease,
whereas leaving the sheep in the paddock
does not facilitate its spreading. Ninety-nine
per cent, of the cases recover in a few days
if the sheep are not interfered with. Fat
sheep which contract the disease are never
much affected if conditions are good.
When pink-eye develops on the road the
drover is in for an anxious time. The sheep
have to be herded together, the conditions
under which they are travelling all help to
spread the disease and the mob must he
gone through carefully every day to treat
the affected beasts. The blind ones get no
feed and miss the water, as well as wander-
ing from the mob. As soon as a drover sees
the first sign of pink-eye in a mob he will,
if he is wise, endeavor to get rid of the
affected ones promptly to prevent its spread-
ing.
One way to get rid of them is to leave
them on the stock route, which means that
they will join up with the next mob coming
along, distributing the affliction there. That
is not playing the game, of course; but
drovers are human, and the stock inspector
can’t be everywhere.
SAVING A BIG FLOCK.
“Squaremile”: Many Queensland graziers
would like to hear further particulars from
“B-Gar” (B. 19/12/’2B) as to how 76,000
sheep and lambs were kept in good order on
Corona station at a cost of sd. per head per
week. Such feeding has cost more like 2s.
a week in many instances within my know-
ledge. To keep a sheep in good order it
would have to get about 21b. of the mixture
per day (lucerne chaff, bran, linseed meal,
ground maize, etc.), at which rate 1000
sheep would eat close on a ton a day. In a
big drought a grazier would be lucky if he
could buy these foodstuffs at all and have
them delivered regularly at his far-out sta-
tion. If he could land it in the troughs
ready for the sheep at £l5 a ton he would
be doing well, and what an army of motor-
trucks and station-hands h» would keep
employed! At £l5 per ton and 21b. per day
the cost would pan out at about Is. 9d.
per head per week. Six months’ treatment
on those lines would cost 455. 6d. per sheep
—considerably more than they are worth.
DRAWBACKS OF LUCERNE.
“G.A.C.”: Lucerne is undoubtedly the king
of fodders, and it would be almost sacrilege
to adversely criticise it to any degree. But
just as there are spots on the sun so there
are drawbacks to this fodder. In dry years
it will not make much growth except on the
very best alluvial land. During most of a
dry summer there may be no growth at all.
Not only is no growth being made, but
it is not safe to graze stock in the paddock,
as they are likely to eat out the crown. This
applies to horses as well as sheep, although
the latter will do more damage in a shorter
time. Horses soon commence pawing the
crown so as to get a good bite at it. Seeing
the lucerne does not grow in the winter it
is quite possible for a lucerne paddock to
lie idle for 12 months without any benefit
being got from it if the season is persistently
dry. Of course, when the rain does come
the lucerne makes up for lost time, but in
the dry pinches when the grazier is looking
round in every corner for a bit of fresh
fodder, it peeves Mm to know that whatever
else he does he musn’t turn stock on to the
lucerne.
THE HAYSTACK.
S. Wilson writes: You quote an article by
me on haystack-building (B. 12/12/’2fi). I
would like to add to it the following:—
Place all sheaves on their sides, using a pitchfork
for this purpose, except the diagonal-corner sheaf.
This sheaf should he placed flat, and the heads of it
fantailed. Build each layer the opposite way round
to the previous one. After reaching the ears, keep
all heads out, as this makes a better thatch than
putting butts out; also, it gives a better pitch.
Although all grain in the outer sheaves will be
lost, that loss is more than compensated for.
SHEEP ON THE EASTERN COASTAL
AREAS.
“Skipper” : Thousands of acres on the east
coast of Australia, more especially in Q’land,
will never carry sheep, owing to the preva-
lence of spear grass. This pest will take toll
of the woolly, no matter what his pedigree,
faster than the losses can be replenished.
On the other hand, there are thousands of
coastal acres where sheep of the right type
could be profitably run, either as a side-line
to general farming or on their own. The
pure-bred merino, essentially a dry-climate
sheep, is totally unsuited to the wet of the
coastal areas, but a cross between merino
and hardier, coarser and stronger wool breeds
does exceptionally well. The merino-Corrie-
dale cross is especially suitable. The first
cross seems to find its feet right away, eveu
in exceptionally wet seasons.
Some years ago a line of six-tooth North-
Western Q’land merino ewes were taken to
the coast and crossed with Corriedale rams
for two seasons. The resulting progeny were
then served by merino rams of the Uardry
blood, and to-day the result is as fine a
comeback flock as could be seen anywhere.
The Corriedale carries a hig fleece, and his
wool closely resembles in texture that of
the pure merino, while his carcase is the
butcher’s ideal, and his temperament such
that he matures quickly. Unlike most other
crosses the percentage of losses amongst the
ewes at lambing time is very light, due to
physiological causes.
AUSTRALIAN FOODSTUFFS IN
ENGLAND.
“Fleet Street” : The cabled news that “a
number of leading Smithfleld men have
inspected and approved of the latest consign-
ment of Australian chilled beef” is encourag-
ing. But many at present serviceable straw
hats are going to be worn out in the famous
old market before London as a whole will
consent to have any kind of Australian meat
on its mind. Last year an East End trader
brought a slander action against a customer
who had charged him with selling Australian
meat, and recovered damages. Witnesses
testified that they could recognise Australian
meat on sight, but denied that they ever con-
sumed the abhorred stuff. That is the nor-
mal attitude of the London poor. However,
a similar pose was general in the Common-
wealth 20 years ago in regard to Australian
wines, tweeds and even leather.
More understandable was the point of view
of an odd-job man of my acquaintance who
lived with his family on Saffron Hill, a
minute or so from Smithfleld. He didn’t
much mind the alleged indifferent quality of
Australia’s frozen meat, but he did object to
the retail price—7s. or Bs. for a joint. So
he took to buying entire carcases of mutton
(501 b. or more) for about 18s. and sharing
them with friends. When I was in London
last year the profiteering of the retailers in
Australian meat struck me as having as
much to do with its unpopularity as anything
else. Frozen fores and hinds that were sold
wholesale at 4-J-d. to a lb. were retailed
at Is. 4d. . .
A consignment of chilled meat arrived
about this time, and though it was bad in
spots and at its best could not stand up to
the Argentine chilled meat, it went off fairly
well. The announcement that the latest
consignment “was excellent in appearance,
color -and dryness” is more than hopeful.
What it may mean is that, once the existing
prejudice against our meat is overcome,
Britain may begin clamoring, not only for
it, but for our game as well. At present
it has to be admitted that most of Aus-
tralia’s products, with the exception of sol-
diers, cricketers and an odd tennis-player or
swimmer, are targets for supercilious merri-
ment. Of Australian port, for example: “A
nice wine—but the trouble is it isn’t the
least like port!”
The Irish Free State deflated this kind
of typically English criticism in re.spect of
its dairy products by rigorous grading laws
which maddened Erin’s farmers at first but
resulted eventually in stores like Harrod’s
and Selfridge’s giving every kind of. Irish
food-product pride of place. That is the
goal Australia is going to reach in time,
but the journey calls for money and self-
sacrifice, and the road is littered with the
boulders of prejudice.
STATION HORSES AND SORE BACKS.
“Horseman”: When a station horse gets
a sore back —and that’s practically incurable
—it is due to one of the following causes:
A bad horseman, an improperly looked after
or badly-lined saddle, or a lack of proper
grooming. The saddle should not be allowed
to get too flat, and should be relined when
necessary. The saddle-cloth should be kept
clean and comfortable; hard, caked sweat
should be removed, and should any grass seed
or clover burrs attach themselves to the
cloth they should at once be removed.
Grooming should be a thorough, intelligent
business, for not only will cakes of mud give
the horse a sore back, but dust and grit in
the hair will help. First use the currycomb
and then put the dandy-brush to every use
possible. A careful horseman will wash his
mount’s back with soap and water after
the day’s work.
It is advisable if possible to have a tap
and a length of hose at the stables for use
by all, to give the horses a wash-down in the
evening. Both saddle and harness prads will
be all the better for it.
Don’t allow anyone to bring a horse home
all lathered in sweat, or sweating at all,
late on a winter’s evening. When the horse
is home and let go it has not time to dry
and cool off before the cold night sets in;
if it is cold enough for the sweat to freeze,
the animal will suffer torture all night.
Sore shoulders in harness horses are
caused in the same way as sore backs in the
saddle horse, and can be avoided by the same
precautions.
When a saddle horse gets a sore back its
days as a saddle horse are done. The mare
can go to the stud and the gelding should
make a good sulky, buggy or waggonette
horse. He will not take much breaking in
to his new work. A week in the chains with
the team will make him used to almost any-
thing, or he may be driven in double harness
with ’a quiet horse for some time. A good
mouth is the main thing.


5E5
3*
<
Pliant and
good-looking,
A heavily-soled shoe of the
toughest leather, with plain-
finished upper and popular
squared toe. Three widths,
narrow, medium and wide, for
each half-size.
ORDER BY POST. State
width and size. Order Abbey
Polish as well—6d. per tin.
BLACK OR TAN CALF, 35/-
New enlarged catalogue pouted on request.
ABBEY
Established over 81 years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St. Sydney
LlO7.
BIRKMYRE'S CLOTH
Regci. Trade-mark.
Tlie best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
GOUROCK
ROmOKK
EXPORT CO.
LTD.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Here’s the CHAMPION
Saddle of Australia.
C>
!
£l5/15/-
Complete.
The
“GENUINE
WIENEKE”
Mr. W. W. Davis, Tulcar-
ley Station, Bourke, N.S.W.,
writes: “The saddle is
everything that I want. I
have in my possession one
about 27 years old. Every-
body should have a
‘Wieneke.’ ”
Write for 1929 New Bool:,
Post Free.
JACK WIENEKE,
c/o JOHN BRUSH,
371 George Street, Sydney,
Or 434 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Jr#
n>
Cuticura Ointment
Does More Than Heal
Assisted by Cuticura Soap it cleanses
the skin and scalp of dirt and dan-
druff, and maintains the sanative
cleanliness of the skin so necessary
in overcoming pimples, blackheads
and many other irritations caused by
your daily occupations and exposure.
Begin using it today.
Soap Is., Talcum ls.3d„ Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
S9W' Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
ASSURED POSITIONS! BETTER MONEY!
We can set you on the road to better money and an assured profession in life. A profession in
which competition is limited and which offers wonderful opportunities if you have any ability
and are persevering. Our tuition gives opportunities to students not to be found elsewhere.
Write for our booklet, telling of positions, salaries and fees, to-day. Start your new career NOW.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £250,000
ALL CLASSES OF INSURANCE EFFECTED.
Probate Disability, Extended Insurance, Non-Forfeiture,
Hospital, Medical and Nurse’s Fees Combined.
Make the event which causes the tax create the cash to pay the tax.
HEAD OFFICE: Hunter House, 26 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
A. McLEAN, Managing Director. R. y. BOOTH, Secretary.
INQUIRIES INVITED.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND AND FINANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
SYDNEY. Also at WAGGA & HENTY, LONDON, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE.
Auction Sales
Throughout the Year
(WOOL, FAT STOCK, GRAIN, SHEEPSKINS,
l HIDES, TALLOW, FURRED SKINS, etc.
Cash Advances on Pastoral Properties and Stock, Wool, Grain and Produce.
Offices: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney. JAMES KIDD, General Manager for Australia.
W&W26.
iOIMM
mm
London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRAN*
FSD
QNVUS
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association
PTY,
LTD.,
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
A YARRA IRRIGATION AREA.
“C.Q.” : It is something of a mystery why
irrigation experiments are always made as
far away as possible from the centres of
population, involving heavy transportation
costs. My friend Blank learnt irrigation at
Burrinjuck, but he is applying his know-
ledge on the banks of the Yarra within six
miles of Melbourne in an area hitherto given
over exclusively to the inefficient and insani-
tary Chow, lie has leased 160 acres, in-
stalled the latest pumping plant, and by
means of concrete drains and several thou-
sand feet of perforated hose, obtained cheap
from the Fire Brigade department, already
has 100 acres under various crops after only
nine months. He is also hand-feeding 40
cows. He has landed a contract to supply
the R.A.N., and expects in his first year to
produce £3OOO worth of vegetables. He
enjoys a perfect climate, and his large family
does not lack the amenities of civilisation. An
occasional flood won’t worry him—it will be
a welcome fertilising agent. There are thou--
sands of acres along the valley of the Yarra
which are too low-lying for suburban sub-
divisional purposes, and are only waiting
similar enterprise.
THE AUTUMN POTATO CROP.
“Minto”: It’s not too early to prepare for
the autumn planting of potatoes. Given any
sort of a season, this is a crop that pays.
It provides winter feed for the grunters and
seed for the spring planting. Get the land
turned over as often as possible, plough
deeply and have it in good tilth at planting-
time—the latter end of January or begin-
ning of February, according to the district.
In areas subject to early frosts it is as well
to get the spuds in early, to give them a chance
to mature before the top growths are cut off.
For fertiliser use as much well-rotted
organic manure as you can get, and plough
it in. This helps to loosen the soil, and
allows the formation of good-sized tubers.
Super., at from 2 to 5 cwt. per acre, according
to the local rainfall, will help to increase the
yield, and in the cooler districts 2 quarters
of sulphate of ammonia may be mixed with
half the usual dose of' super. Get the best
seed possible, and plant it either by plough
or draw drills, about 30 inches apart, the
sets about 4in. to 6in. deep and about 15in.
between. If you get a chance to “green” the
seed all the better, as the shoots are less
liable to break off and they come along
quicker.
When the growth appears use the culti-
vator to keep the weeds down and to con-
serve the moisture. Never let the soil set
hard, and don’t cultivate top deeply as
the growth comes on.
Hilling, in small areas, can be done by
hand, or in paddocks by a mouldboard plough.
Some potato cultivators have a special
mouldboard attachment for hilling. Hilling
is essential to protect the tubers, which other-
wise would probably come out of the ground
and be cut by frosts or hit by the sun. Hill
as soon as the first flower buds appear.
Harvest the autumn crop when the tops
die off as a general rule, but watch the
weather for the best results, and if you live
in a district where there is much winter
rain it’s advisable to get the digging done
before the rain sets in. Hand-digging is best
if labor conditions permit, as the plough
ruins a good few plants, especially if the
rows are not quite straight or the horse
does not know his job.
In marketing, grade your crop for prices,
and don’t be ashamed to brand the product.
Use clean bags. Keep a good stock of seed
for the spring sowing, and, if the same area
is to be used again, plant peas first.
SOWING SMALL SEED.
“Villers-Brett.” : I have hand-sown lucerne,
cabbage, lettuce, etc., but onion seed fair gave
me the pip. So I invented an easier way.
Amongst some odds and ends I found an
old atmospheric gas burner. The inside nipple
had an aperture about iin. diameter. I fitted
the burner into a bottle like a cork, and
ran a 14-gauge wire through the aperture,
held in place by a piece of lead fastened
to it inside the bottle. I attached another
piece of lead to the wire outside the bottle.
The wire acted as an agitator and kept the
seed from blocking the aperture. By shak-
ing the bottle to keep the wire moving. I
could sow the seed evenly and easily as fast
as I Could walk along the drill, saving seed and
doing better work than by finger and thumb
BURNING FIRE-BREAKS:
“Mullarula”: A lot of the damage done by
bush-fires is preventable. Almost any little
break will stop a .fire started on the wind-
ward side of it, for the flames do not reach
out far until the fire has begun to travel
with the wind behind it. All that is neces-
sary to make a break is to plough a few
furrows. Pick a night when the wind is in
the right direction, light the grass on the
windward side, and allow it to burn back
against the wind to whatever distance is
required, making sure, of course, that suffi-
cient men are at hand to beat it out if it
burns too freely. It will rarely burn freely
at night unless the wind is behind it. There
is no perceptible night dew during the inland
summer in N.S.W. and Q’land, but it must
be there, for the fire won’t travel at night
as it will during the day, unless it has time
to spread and develop sufficient heat to dry
the grass ahead of it). I have known hot
and seemingly dry nights in the most fire-
scourged section of Riverina when we have
had to give up attempts to burn breaks be-
cause the grass would not burn at all.
FLAX-GROWING IN THE SPECK.
“Kirk”: A political par. (B. 19/12/’2B)
says a feeble attempt at growing flax in Aus-
tralia collapsed about 1924 when the crop
got down to six acres and then ceased to be
heard of. That is not correct. A company
has been at work in Tasmania for the last
three years, and has a factory for the treat-
ment of Irish flax fibre at Launceston. The
seed is imported from Erin’s Isle. Many
farmers have become shareholders and have
contracted to grow 400 acres this season.
The contract price for the flax is £5 a ton
on trucks to non-shareholders, and £5 ss.
to shareholders. The yield is expected to
average two tons per acre; harvesting ex-
penses are low, as the flax is carted straight
from the paddock to the railway, and wet
weather does no damage to the cut fibre.
INSECT ARMIES.
“Springhaans”: There has been jubilation
recently in some of the western N.S.W. dis-
tricts which have been suffering from a
grasshopper plague over the assumption that
unidentified parasites are wiping out the
pest in short order. G. H. Griffiths, of the
Farmers and Settlers’ Association, says he
saw the insects lying dead in thousands.
Many of them contained maggots; others
harbored a threadlike worm. Neither maggot
nor worm has been identified as yet, and
it is possible that the larvae were those of
one of the predatory wasps, or even those
of blowflies, deposited after the grasshoppers
had died from other causes, but the sudden
disappearance of caterpillar hordes has often
been noted in various parts of Australia, and
there is at least a presumption that the
creatures have an insect enemy. The time
may come when the study and cultivation
of parasites will provide the farmer with his
most effective weapons against insect and
other plagues. Wasps are already being used
to fight the blowfly and other larvfe-depositing
pests. The outlaws of the vegetable king-
dom are being attacked in similar fashion,
as in the case of prickly-pear, and in South
Africa a fungoid disease is being employed
against the ever-threatening 'locust with con-
siderable success. Within the last few years
the chemist has changed the outlook of the
man on the land. The day seems not far
distant when the entomologist will play as
big a part as the chemist and the plant-
breeder arc doing to-day, and the microscope
prove as valuable an aid to farming as the
agricultural machinery turned out at Sun-
shine.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“K.W.F.”: It mayn’t be scientific, but
when setting eggs if I want pullets I pick
out small round eggs. It works out at about
nine females to two males on an average.
“Pick”: When cold, wet weather follows
the day’s shearing the undressed woollies
will need attention, or scores may perish
before morning. Whistle up the dogs and
get the sheep moving. At night they will
for a time resolutely refuse to stir, but a
troublesome job is better than the loss of
half the flock, and with much hustling and
yapping they may be induced to travel. Drive
them round an.d round the paddock till day-
light. Afterwards watch and move them
on again when they show a tendency to pile
up against the fence or huddle together in
shelter. Gradually they will become hard-
ened to the elements, and will be fairly safe
after 48 hours’ tending.
“Bill R.”: Five wmys to prevent a jump-
ing horse from kangarooing into the neigh-
bors’ paddocks: (1) Cross-line him with a
trace-chain fastened from his off hind leg
to his near forefoot. (2) r Hobble him and tie
a halter from his head to the middle of the
hobble-chain. (3) Pierce his ears and tie
them partly together with string. (4) Turn
him in through the slip panel. (5) Sell him.
“Valerin”: In dry weather care should be
exercised in letting weaners or hoggets de-
pasture on wheat stubble. There is always
a quantity of grain lost where bags are
stacked or where machines break down, and
the sheep will fossick this out and eat it
avidly. I have lost quite a number of
weaners in paddocks where it was impossible
to see any grain. Old sheep have better
digestions than the young ones, so can
assimilate the grain they eat and the losses
amongst them are negligible.
“6X2”: This is the time of the year
when horses break down the alleged gate or
walk through the unstrained wires and gorge
themselves ojn wheat with disastrous results.
The best remedy for the results of wheat-
eating is a drench of 4oz. baking soda to a
pint of water administered through a drench-
ing bit. The soda acts as an antidote to the
toxic qualities of the wheat which cause the
death of the animals. I have treated scores
of horses with soda and never had a loss.
The old idea that a horse gorged with wheat
should not be allowed to drink is fallacious.
Let him have as much water as he can
swallow.
“Venturino”: A simple method of finding
the capacity in gallons of a circular tank is
as follows: Multiply the diameter in feet
by itself; multiply this result by half the
depth in feet, and put a nought on to the
result. Thus in a tank 7ft. across and Bft.
deep, we say 7 x 7—49. then 49 x 4—196;
putting a nought on to this we have the capa-
city of the tank as 1960 gallons. Deduct
two gallons in every 100. making 1921, and
you’re right within a gallon or so.
“Poker” : For about six weeks before the
date of the show at which fowls are to be
exhibited they should be kept in a sheltered
place, and white- or light-colored fowls
should not be allowed out in the sunlight
for more than an hour at a time. The sun
has a tendency to turn their feathers yellow,
and if this happens they have lost
much of their chance of gaining a prize.
About a month before the show they should
be given a few ounces of giant sunflower
seeds or oilcake three or four times a week.
This makes the feathers glossy. If time
can be spared the feathers should be rubbed
each day with a silk cloth. A few days
before the show the birds should be washed
with soap and warm water. White fowls
should be given a bath in blue. They should
then be thoroughly dried, and kerosene
should be applied to their legs and combs.
“Nat Park” : “Biro’s” hint on egg-setting
(B. 19/12/’2B) doesn’t conclusively prove
that shaking eggs renders them infertile. I
brought home a setting of a dozen eggs,
each one of which wrns wrapped in paper
and packed tightly in a box carried in a
bag slung over my shoulder, and rode with
it on horseback at a canter for 14 miles.
The eggs were nlaced under the hen immedi-
ately I arrived home. I got 11 sturdy chicks.
“P.M.”: Carelessness in breaking in cer-
tainly has a lot to do with jibbing horses (B.
19/12/’2B), combined with a selfish desire
to get the animal to work and make a profit
out of him right away. I know a man who
bought a three-year-old colt and the next
day taught it to lead. In the afternoon he
put it in chains and next day gave it 10
hours in a single-furrow plough on new
rough ground. He kept this up for a fort-
night, flogging the horse every time it wanted
to ston for a breather. At the end of the
fortnight the prad wasn’t worth 2s. 6d. as
a plough-horse.


....
1
. -
IiPIBiIB ; v K:Mi
.•'"X ’sfi'syjy's j- •■ / ys. ' /. &
lipill ip 11 ilfil ill
I liiili i nil itiiii
r
mi ■
M
1 llpl
ill
i
/ ' ¥:
ißligiii
■II 11
■Hi
H: : pi
■I
WHATA
VALUE
TH IS IS'
Can’t
Know the
Value
Till
You
Drive the
Qur”
Oldsmobile’s tremendous success is
the inevitable result of value. Every
comparison reveals beauty, luxury,
performance and engineering un-
equalled at Oldsmobile’s price.
Consider Its Appearance
Its voguish new bodies are the dis-
tinctive creations of artist-engineers.
Its low, sweeping, graceful lines
express smartness and luxury in every
detail. Rich upholsteries, panelings
and appointments complete its fine-
car beauty.
You enjoy costly car luxury and
comfort—and you get it at a lower
price!
Consider Its Performance
A great new engine develops power
for every need speed for every
desire. A new cylinder head of
General Motors Research design pro-
vides the brilliant pick-up and flexi-
bility of a high-compression engine,
without the use of special fuels.
And Oldsmobile offers the additional
advantages of exceptional handling
ease and finger-tip steering. It turns
completely in a 36-foot circle and
slips easily into parking spaces far
too small for the average car.
It possesses unusual stamina and long-
life—proved by more than a million
miles of testing at the General
GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
OLDSMOf
Metr
Melbourne: Lane’s Motors Pty., Ltd., Russell St
Brisbane: Pacific Motors, Ltd., Ann and Wickham J
Perth: E. D.


'a| " V " ** /' :i4lSwS|^^
.1». . ........ ......
*. .*
. '
.
iliP
{MRjgpw t .i \ *
: \««§
'
m§mßMmMmmMm
xS\'..,WP:^''....
■ ■- ■"
.^ia—i
?iiiW'
: 'i
S : PBS ; ;XfeS-;
• ' ' :
| v > / ->■ '
' ; k, y '■ ■ +K> s?v -
* . ‘ Sfc. p
HMD 1 ~ «,V% VVP
_
mm? &;
-
- • - -■
■
■ • -i
•■ \u.vwii..v
ma .:
| <
Motors Proving Ground—and now
confirmed by millions of miles of
driving in the hands of enthusiastic
owners. You get infinitely finer
performance— and you get it at a
lower price!
Consider Its Equipment
This new Oldsmobile comes com-
pletely equipped, as a really fine car
should be.
Four hydraulic shock absorbers elim-
inate road shocks and provide a
smooth ride over even the roughest
highways. Deep - cushioned, form-
fitting seats complete the restful com-
fort.
Vertical radiator shutters are an im-
portant feature and both the petrol
gauge and water temperature gauge
are carried on the instrument panel.
Rubber cushioning, used wherever cush-
ioning should go, assures a silenced chassis.
And special sound deadening insulation
between body and chassis creates a silenced
interior, a wonderfully enjoyable feature.
You will find every fine car quality at its
best in this Fine Car of Low Price.
Come and take a drive. A half-hour at
the wheel will demonstrate why more
and more thousands are choosing this
new Oldsmobile.
The better they know it, the better they
like it. And when you know it as they
do, you too will say, " What a value
this is! ”
THE TOURER
£330
The
Sports Roadster £3BO
The
Two-door Sedan £398
The
Four-door Sedan £450
BUY FROM YOUR
LOCAL DEALER
ILE SIX
lsf tributors:
Sydney: Boyd Edkins, Ltd., Phillip Street.
Adelaide: Vivian Lewis, Ltd., Franklin Street.
s > Ltd., Hay Street.
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR


TUt PERFECT
_ IVORY TIP
©
to
t"=
\SI
■ '• ■••• •-..
333
tioaNcn*tilTtx>
OSOVBQL KMWV
9/1 XO / OZ
SMOKE-OH!
Often the police would make no mistake
if they jugged by appearances.
* *
The Federal Capital Commission wants to
prevent the abuse of liquor. Nothing easier—
see that it’s good and plentiful.
* *
Even in this weather a married man is
liable to suffer from a perverse scold.
* *
A London cable says that what Princess
Bibesco most dreads is the early morning
postal delivery. In Sydney recently Ryder
confessed that what he most dreaded was
Larwood’s late afternoon delivery.
THE FAUX PAS.
“Money certainly talks,” I said brightly to
Brown,
With no wish at all to be funny;
And I only recalled when I saw his bleak
frown,
That he, some time back, marbied money.
Doric.
SHE HAD A SOFT SPOT FOR HIM.
The man from the vast open spaces had
eaten his entire meal with his knife. Sud-
denly he became gloomy.
“That fool of a waitress has taken away
me fork,” he complained.
“You don’t need it now,” said his city
friend.
“Don’t I?” exploded the out-backer.
“What the blazes am I goin’ ter stir me
co'rfee with?”
THE AMENDED SLOGAN.
“Pine-wood extract makes an excellent nerve-
tonic.” —Melbourne Herald.
“ ‘Shiver my timbers!’ we salts used to cry
(We were hard as nails and our nerves
knew no quivers) ;
But shore-life has ruined my system, and I,
As my present slogan, use ‘Timber my
shivers!’ ”
¥ *
The Anzac spirit persists. Watch our
lads pouring out to the races, each eager
to do his bit.
* *
Land-agent’s ad.: “A Penny a Day Will
Secure a Block.” On the dime-payment sys-
tem, of course.
At At
In maiden meditation, fancy-free,
Her thoughts in wistful dreams have wan-
dered far.
That’s what tie thinks, hut, as a fact, thinks
she,
“I wonder if he really owns this car?”
* *
A Sydney wife-deserter attributed his de-
fection to “being given rabbits every day
for dinner.” Yet many a man would be
thankful for a wife who was regular in her
rabbits.
THE NON-RESISTER.
“I never regret resisting a temptation.”
“No, I don’t think you do.”
A serious omission has been discovered in
Melbourne’s new car-parking regulations—
they do not provide crbches for Austin 7’s.
* *
The French police intend to brand habitual
offenders by injecting solidified paraffin under
the skin in appropriate places. It looks like
meals off the mantelpiece for hit-and-run
motorists.
* *
TESTY TRIFLES.
No rest for the wicket this season.
We’ve got to keep Oldfield in the team
for sundry reasons.
However long our slow bowlers go on try-
ing for catches, they never seem to be
knocked up.
* *
A Sydney woman summoned her husband
for assault because he threw the clock at
her. He pointed out that he was merely
passing the time of day.
TIME, THE HEALER.
She was the perfect surfing peach,
The girl 1 used to love,
When first I saw her on the beach.
Eyes like the stars above,
Pale golden hair, slim, dainty feet,
A lovely face, a figure neat,
All made her what she was —a treat,
That girl I used to love!
To-day I saw her at the Zoo,
The girl I used to love —
And seven of her youngsters, too.
She wore a large-size glove.
Her iveiglit, I judged, was sixteen stone;
Her hair had a peroxide tone.
All, all the loveliness had flown
Of her I used to love.
In days to come you’ll think about
The girl you used to love,
And wonder how you lived without
That radiant little dove.
So when you feel just anyhow,
And to your woes are fain to bow,
Just go and see how she looks now,
That girl you used to love!
DORIC.
THE EASY-PAYMENT LIFE.
In t.-p. cribs when we are born, in an
instalment dwelling, we take our sleep, and
wake each morn the whole house with our
yelling. We grow apace—each glad new
year so quick the old one chases. In knicker-
bockers we appear bought on the lay-by basis ;
and hardly are we breeched before we’re
longing to afford a long pair of pants; at
last a pair is got—on a cash order ! Just
as we’ve settled up the debt that’s owed
upon this raiment a motor-bike we lightly
get—of course on “easy payment.”
The world we face with courage high,
adventure’s pathway calling, and shortly for
a roving eye our callow heart is falling. For
some small nest the search is on; and it
seems scarce a minute before the “terms” are
fixed for one, and we are settled in it.
Of course, we’ve put inside our home a
new t.p. piano; and all the furniture has
come on the instalment plan. Oh, cash orders
lie on all we use down to the baby’s binders,
school fees for Tom, his hats and shoes, our
artificial grinders, the new stuff bought a
room to deck to help us keep a boarder so
that he’ll help us keep in check Life’s rav-
enous cash-order.
So from the cradle to the tomb at saving
souls we scoff, in the sunshine, till we reach
the gloom of a time-payment coffin.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.
REEK AND CHAPMAN.
“Such is cricket!” commented the stout
gentleman in the Melbourne suburban train
as he knocked the cap from a beer-bottle.
“We lives and learns,” agreed his neighbor
enigmatically.
A little man in the corner piped, up : “That
bloke Chapman sez to me”——
“It reminds me of the last time the Eng-
lishmen were out here,” broke in another
man. “Our bowlin’ club and the local foot-
ballers were playin’ a cricket match durin’
the last Test. Old Jim Foley couldn’t get a
blanky wicket. We ’as lunch
together, an’ I sez, ‘You’re
off color to-day, Jim.’ ‘Yes,’
’e sez; ‘but wait till I ge.ts
a few beers under me weskit.
That’ll fix ’em!’ And it did,
too. ’E got the others _ out
in three overs. By cripes,
if prohibition comes in it’ll
be the rooin of the game.”
“Talkin’ of beer”
began the gentleman with
the bottle.
“Chapman, sez to me”
broke in the little man.
“ ’Ere, you ! Don’t inter-
rupt,” said the owner of the
bottle sternly. “Talkin’ of
beer; me and some cobbers
went to the match when
Mailey got all the wickets.
Remember it? Well, we
takes a nine-gallon keg of
beer and there’s six of us.
We all got run in. Ah, they
was great days. The beer
was beer then, and the police
was genelmen.”
For a moment the occu-
pants of the compartment
were lost in happy recollec-
tions of the past. Then the
little man defiantly piped up
again.
“Only las’ night Chapman
sez to me”
“The best ball I ever seen
bowled was last Saturday,”
interrupted a youth. “Our fast
bowler had been no-balled so much by one
umpire that he didn’t know whether Tues-
day was Footscray or a piece of cheese. So
h'e got the captain to put him on at the
other end, and his first ball caught the
umpire fair in the corporation. Cripes, it
was a beaut!”
The little man sat up determinedly.
“Chapman sez to me las’ night”
But at this stage the train stopped and
everybody left. I buttonholed the persistent
one.
“What teas it Chapman said to you?” I
asked.
He swelled with pride and spoke in the
tones of one who has accomplished much.
“We was as close together as you an’ me.
I was servin’ the beer at dinner, and when
I went past ’im the fourth time ’e turns and
sez, ‘Look here, if you spill any more beer
down my neck I’ll push your face in.”
W. TEARE-WATSON.
THE JEWAL: A Tail for Scouts.
By HAMER JUNIOR.
In the Dark of a Cold and Dreary morn
2 solittary figgers might have been seen
in Senttenial Park, Sydney. They carry
sords. Suddenly a Voice interceps them.
“Hist! Are you the brave Yewth who goes
foreth to fite a Jewello with M’seer De
Rottigny?”
“I am,” said the yunger of the 2 figgers,
ferelessly.
“Alars, brave Yewth!” said the Misterious
Voice. “You go to sertin Deth. De Rot-
tigny is the Best Sordsman in Darlinghurst.
He is Chief of the Surry Hills Sord Gang.
Turn back wilst there is yet time.”
“I fere him not,” said our Hero. And
then, remembering his career as a Wolf
Cub, “I have yet to do my One Good Deed
to-day. I propose to kill him as I wood
a Vermin.”
But in spite of himself he felt a Sinking
in the Hart. All threw he had suspected the
Sinister furrener who had wurmed his way
into the confidence of the Rich Old Mer-
chant in whos office he had but just started
and had been at once made a partener. And
one night, while working overtime, he had
found the Frenchman Robbing the Old Mer-
chant’s Safe.
The miscreent might indede have got away
with the Deeds only that Our Hero, seezing
an inkpot, herled it at him, cowering him
with Ink.
“Sakka blew” howled the Earl 1 . “Ink is
Something that can only be wiped out with
Blud. Har! Har!”
Which was how Our Hero came to be in
Senttenial Park with Deth starring him in
the Face. And now he is facing his Foe,
on whos crool face is an Evil Sneer. He
shivvered as he thort of what wood become
of the Old Merchant’s safe should he die.
It wood be far, far from safe.
But as he griped the Steal his mornful
thort Fled. He new at the first Thrust that
his Aponent was an expert. However, in the
Boy Scouts he had played Signalsticks, and
his Mussels were of Steal.
Still it wood have gone Hard with him
but for the prayer-book, the last gift of
his sainted mother, which he carried over ins
Hart. Getting parsed his Gard, De Rot-
tigny lunged feersly, but his sord-point met
the sakrid Vollum, and bent nearly dubble.
Fullering on with all his wait for a Kill the
Mersiless Aliun ran agains Our Hero’s sord,
and with a Holler Cry Fell to the Ground.
“Holed!” cried a Voice; and its Misterious
Owner Appered. “He is Dead,” he an-
nounsed, after a breif examernation 1 .
“And now I shall be Tried for Murder,”
said Our Hero. He had not thort of that
befour.
“Not So,” said the Stranger. “I am a
Pryvit Detective who follered, the Klew
and found out that De Rottigny is a Villin
wanted by the Law, and there is a Price upon
his Hed. I am also a Judge. I will tell the
Jury that I know all about the case, and
there is no need to go on with it.”
Our Hero cood hardly find words to ex-
press his Gratichude.
“Thank me not,” said the Judge. “Rather
let me thank you for Saving the Old Mer-
IT’S THE LITTLE THINGS THAT TELL
chant, who is my father. Alredy he Knows
of your Brave Conduckt, and he intends to
give you Arabella, his only dorter and a
Promenant Girl Guide, in Holy Wedlock!”
And So, as usually happens in these cases,
All Ended Happily.


PRICE
BERRY
cMore and more cvlustralians are appre-
ciating the fact that here in our own
country is distilled a whisky 0 finer than
any the world produces. Old Court sales
continue to increase—its mellowness, flavor
and ag,e are winning, all who try it dDon’t be
led into the belief that whisky must be im*
ported to be g,ood—let a trial convince you of
the matchless qualities of OLD COURT.
Wftntef
IWvistui
Qlnc Vorlcfc Purest / I


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
I
■I ■« ■ [■■[■ II
k.
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
19.
FOR
4%
YOUR SAVINGS.
There are two good methods of using the Savings Account as a provision
against the future.
To provide as far as possible for the unexpected expense; to save as much
and as often as you can—the ordinary Savings Account proviHes a convenient
businesslike method and a return of 4 per cent, interest.
For the expected expense, use the COMMONWEALTH SAVINGS PURPOSE
ACCOUNT. You know the amount you need and the time when you will
need it. The Purpose Account will help you to accomplish your purpose.
Information from any Branch of the
(tanonwealtb Saving lank of Australia
baf&
)
I it l;
No Hotel in Adelaide
,gives such comfort
at small cost. Oppo-
site Railway Station.
Close to theatres and
shopping. 300 rooms
and 100 bathrooms.
Yale locks on every
door. Excellent ser-
vice throughout.
Write for Tariff.
S'GROSVENOR
cjldektides Finest Unlicensed Dio tel
Opp. Railway Stn.. North Terrace. PhongCert4o4j;_
BRACKEN
By BERNARD CRONIN
Illastrations <hy Treason
Synopsis : Orphaned on the day of
his birth, and taken by his mother’s
sister, Ann Martin, to Musk Ridge, a
Gippsland selection owned by Ann’s
husband, Hector, Jasper Leith slaves
through boyhood among the cotes. His
uncle, a heavy drinker, whose black
temper makes Jasper’s young life and
that of Ann Martin miserable, dies
suddenly when Jasper is 16, and
Jasper, taking charge, makes the selec-
tion comparatively prosperous. Jasper’s
eyes, however, have been turned city-
ward through a with Ronald
Braid, a boy who is trying to become
an artist and whom he met at the
home of Lois Beaument, a girl neigh-
bor. At Lois’s home also Jasper was
disgusted by the way he was kissed by
Cora Harris, a fleshy girl of another
neighboring family. Lois, whom Jasper
is already fond of, goes to Melbourne
for schooling, and before she goes hints
to Jasper that she thinks he is risking
better things • through his growing
obsession to make money. She says
that he is “getting stuck all over with
tinfoil.”
CHAPTER XV.
The Call of the City.
TASPER’S earlier associations with Tod
I Harris had naturally resulted in a closer
' acquaintance with the Harris family.
Their properties adjoined. It was, there-
fore, calling for no
great effort on
Jasper’s part to
spend an odd
evening ait Fern-
hill, as the place
was named. When
hi s partnership
with Tod was {
ended he still con-
tinued these j
friendly relations.
There was no rea- j
son why he should
not, for Tod’s I
momentary spite j
at the exposure j
and its sequel had
not been reflected
in the others of
his family.
Cora, indeed,
had roundly
abused her brother
for the crooked-
ness which had de-
prived them all,
to varying degree,
of little added
prosperities. She
sided openly with
Jasper, and was at
some pains to
assure him of her
disgust of Tod.
He thought this
rather decent of
her, notwithstand-
ing his aunt’s attitude.
It was Ann Martin’s opinion, slowly and
clumsily expressed, that Cora might think
what she chose, but had no right to desert
her own blood publicly. Ann was now in-
creasingly given to declaration. Her vastly-
improved circumstances had brought her
to the point of self-importance. She re-
viewed the world with an absurd condescen-
sion, and unhesitatingly interfered with the
business of her neighbors.
Jasper thought his aunt
unduly critical of Cora. His
own dislike had long since
vanished and been forgotten.
Cora had grown into a hand-
some girl, large-bosomed, active,
overflowing with animal health
and spirits. Her proximity never
failed to affect him pleasantly. He
was curiously warmed and bewildered
to meet the slow, languid widening of
her great blue eyes as she looked
at him across the room. The mass of her
dark-red hair crowned her like a flame,
and her full, ripe lips were like a narrow
oval of flame bent about the white of her
teeth. Her face near to his own as they
joined in some romping game or lowered
their heads above the card-table fetched
a dryness to his mouth and turned his wits
dull. He became heavy and confused, and
glad when the hour for leaving came.
Trudging home across the paddocks, his
cheeks would burn suddenly at recollection
of her teasing looks and laughter, and he
would be alternately attracted and repelled.
He was not at all in love with her, and his
unsophistication was uneasily puzzled to
excuse his aching head and dragging feet.
His clean-mindedness hotly defended her
against rumors of an unwise pursuit of
men’s company. He refused flatly to listen
to his aunt’s unctuous retailing of the worst
of these stories. He told himself that
if Cora chose to be over-much in the com-
pany of a recently-arrived commercial tra-
veller, it was her business. In Guruwa
idiom, they were quite possibly “liking each
other.” Jasper could find no fault with
that. The man’s name was Roughton. Tod
had brought him one night to Fernhill,
after a none-too-sober football match. Cora
had gone with Roughton in his car fre-
quently since then, and they had danced
“Tod surprised them as they came from Cora’s room. Cora screamed at him: ‘Hold your tongue, you fool. We’re going to
be married!”
together at the infrequent Guruwa enter-
tainments. In any case, as Jasper reminded
his aunt, Roughton had missed his last
regular trip, and there was some talk that
he had gone to live in another State.
This episode, however, did not occur
until the year in which Jasper decided to
try his fortunes in the city. In the interim
he spent a good deal of his spare time at
Fernhill. Regular weekly dances, upon a
small scale, became the fashion'there. Tod
could always be relied upon to make these
occasions merry. He produced bottles of
cheap wine from some carefully-hidden
source, and would wink invitingly from
the doorway behind his father’s back.
Harris, senior, was an extraordinary mix-
ture of parsimony and religion. He was a
gaunt, dour man, with a straggle of rusty
beard and a long, wrinkled neck, who spent
his days in toil and his nights between
grumbling and sleeping. Tod’s ungodliness,
the draught-board pattern of his morals and
clothing, occasioned old Harris supreme
mental discomfort. He was for ever girding
at Tod and larding him with Scriptural in-
junction. Glaring over the spectacles
balanced upon the bulbous tip of his long
nose, he would draw comparisons between
his son and Jasper, greatly to the embarrass-
ment of the latter. Jasper was sober, hard-
working and ambitious, and sensibly bound
to make his way in life. Tod was a hulk-
ing lazybones, headed for perdition.
Mrs. Harris was a characterless woman
whose unshapely stoutness seemed to over-
flow into her clothes. She was prematurely
aged. Of their twelve children all had died
but Tod, Cora and a girl named Rosanna,
who was ten years younger than her sister.
Rosanna was practically a replica of Cora
at the age. She had Cora’s full, sensuous
development, and their coloring was iden-
tical. Like Cora she was continually wet-
ting her lips with her tongue, and her large
blue eyes were unpleasantly knowledgeable
and unchildlike.
The evenings spent with the Harris family
were pleasant enough for Jasper, upon the
whole. Friends from adjoining farms would
also be there, as likely as not, and they
would organise games or take the dogs
’possuming in the moonlight, or perhaps
they would clear the floor of the hayshed
and make shift to dance. Jasper was a
little shy of the boisterousness of Cora and
some of the other girls at such times. He
grew awkward and tongue-tied when con-
fronted with the more intimate of their
mutual merry-makings. Sometimes, when
momentarily alone with Cora, he would
puzzle at the little contemptuous expression
in her eyes and the sullen resignation in
her voice. It would seem almost as though
she resented something he had done or
had failed to do.
Jasper had rather dreaded the moment
when he must tell his aunt of a definitely-
decided date for his departure for the city.
He determined this step for the week fol-
lowing his twenty-fifth birthday. There
was, he carefully concluded, nothing now
to render his further presence at Musk
Ridge indispensable. His aunt would con-
tinue as usual, with a married couple to
manage the farm. This had been tacitly
understood between them for some years.
Ann Martin was rooted to the scenes of
her early struggling. She wished for no-
thing better than to conserve her triumph
in its original setting. She declaimed with
feeble obstinacy against the cramped exist-
ence of city residence, with its social com-
parisons and its restrictions of intimate
speech. In Guruwa she was a person of
importance, a member of the school com-
mittee and the church vestry. She was
deferred to by those whom she had passed
in the local race for success, and her name
had appeared in the notes issued from the
Methodist Missionary Centre as one of the
ladies prominently associated with the an-
nual bazaar at Guruwa. She was loath to
relinquish such comfortable assurance of
superiority in exchange for the doubtful
recognition of suburban existence.
Notwithstanding these asseverations Jas-
per was never quite sure that her resolu-
tion would hold when confronted with the
fact of his departure. He believed in the
psychology of her refusal to accompany him,
however, knowing that she was fundamen-
tally incapable of adjusting herself to new
and- frankly experimental conditions. As
the time approached he deliberately drew
her into discussion of the matter, in order
that familiarity with the detail of it might
rob actuality of much of its hurt. To-
gether in the even-
ing they would
consult the Sav-
ings. Bank pass-
book and list the
evidences of their
material success.
Musk Ridge was
now freehold, with
new house and
outbuildings and
half of its acres
under cultivation.
The remaining half
was well stocked,
and there was not
one penny of debt
remaining any-
where. Jasper had
nearly £3OO to his
credit in the bank.
With this he would
purchase a small
business of some
kind.
They would run
through the enter-
prises made pos-
sible with such a
sum. Ann Martin
had a leaning to-
wards soft drinks
and i c e-c ream
cones. She argued,
with a ridiculous
affectation of busi-
ness acumen, that
such a venture
could not possibly fail, since an uncle
of her mother had c once embarked
upon a similar enterprise in the south
of France, and had eventually retired
and married the daughter ol a produce
merchant. Jasper, whilst admitting gravely
the immense significance, of this happening,
reserved decision until he could make first-
hand investigation of the relative merits
of the suggested undertakings. He was
resolutely determined to be unhampered in
(Continued on page 57.)


m
A.
%
§
m
%
r
i
Jk
m
m
;>~t's » \
mnß'
~,_.K , ; r a
. krt&yjtj
..• v r.\\\w"''' I • .
% n \ ~»*
AYREFIELD hats have
an indefinable air of
style, and their smart
appearance cannot fail
to appeal to the well-
dressed man. Their
colors are fast and their shapes
permanent.
avxovj^ux
I c/ */. 1 a
I Qjhare then
Merits with None
Obtainable at all the
leading Men’s Stores
A PRODUCT OF UNITED FELT HATS PTY.
LTD -
F 4


FS
/
i
u:
m
4-'
r>
- /
1a '
Ummiu
\!cWs Jm
I
nr
i
-r
sa
fC’islSi
«VJ
interesting
die
See
at the
s v t> N sl fow
M° TO d \o H 36
(Hall of Industry!
ss r"“
ll
SERVICE —that is Leyland Service
—is a guarantee to the Leyland
owner, wherever he may be,
against long and expensive lay-ups. In
time of need any wanted Part, from
a Spring Clip to a Rear Axle, can be
promptly obtained from the £40,000
worth of Spares held in Australia.
The well-equipped Leyland Depots
offer first-class repair facilities, and
numerous Country Agencies fill every
normal Service requirement.
A Direct Branch of
the English Factory
Only as a direct branch of the English
factory can the Leyland Australian
organisation offer such prompt and
complete Service facilities. Backed by
the immense resources of the Home
Company, Leyland is able to carry the
heavy capital outlay which this Service
necessarily involves.
In addition, Leylands’ direct factory
representation in Australia ensures the
English factory receiving first-hand
information of local needs. This
information is utilised in the construc-
tion of all Leyland chassis sent to
Australia.
JgvJant^Motqg
rfckb
ENGLAND
HEAD OFFICE
24 GROSVENOR ST
*• SYDNEY ••
SERVICE STATION
AUSTRALIA ST.
CAMPERDOWN
TELEPHONES 8.7951 - 8.7952 TELEGRAMS LEVMOTORS-SYDNEY
MELBOURNE DEPOT: Corner Villiers and Courtney Streets,
North Melbourne.
BRISBANE DEPOT: Grey Street, South Brisbane.
X
You can Wipe the Mort-
gage Off your House.
Possess Insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
GUYATT'S
RESPIRATORS
Dust, fumes,
acids, paint and
flying embers,
are a menace to your
health. Protect the
throat and lungs with
a Guyatt Respirator.
The type illustrated
13/6 post free any-
where.
Others 4/6, 10/6,17/6.
Dept. B. GUY ATT & CO.
257 a George Street, Sydney.
DF
S 3
In Days of Old
White hair was
all the vogue.
In modern days
grey or white
hair is consid-
ered a sign of
appr caching
age.
It is NOT "THE
THING.”
All traces of Grey can readily be removed
by an application of
Dr. Allen's (Mexican)
WALNUT STAIN
Sold at all Chemists and Stores.
Harmless, easy
to apply, can-
not be detected
Manufactured by
DUERDIN AND
SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street,
Melbourne.
i
Zh e Dominion.
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion” is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from —
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS. .
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.


This Razor will
last a Lifetime
Kropp Razors arc hand-forged from solid bars of special steel by the world's
most expert cutlers. They take a finer, keener edge than ordinary cast steel
Qr machine-stamped razors.
KROPP
never
requires
grinding
It makes shaving a pleasure. Your face will be smoother, cleaner and more
comfortable when you use one of these wonderful razors.
AH/.-BRITISH
Sheffield made and world famous. Individually tested, and fully guaranteed.
From the usual dealers. Black Ivory or Xylonite handles.
Wholesale only: OSBORNE GARRETT & CO., LTD., London, England
Buy your Leave Car
with fixed re-purchase Price
The beautifully illustrated and helpful Brochure
entitled Seeing Enghnd by Car ” describes the
most comprehensive Car Service ever evolved —en-
abling you to have your own Car while in England
with re-purchase price fixed before you buy it.
Write for free copy of
this brochure to-day
HENLYS
England's Leading
Motor Agents,
Devonshire House,
Piccadilly, W. 1,
\ and 9 other Branches
A in London and
\\ Manchester.
0*
nr
/
HP
$>
A Free Copy of “Seeing England by Car” will be
sent free on application from the offices of this
paper, 214 George Street North, Sydney.
GROCERS,
THE “EARL” BACON CUTTERS, "made
in Australia,” are always at your service—made
in five models, prices £8 to £3B, cash or terms.
Write for illustrated catalogue.
HUMPHREY EARL, LTD.,
Manufacturers,
110 George Street West, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE .. 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUQHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
■■■■■■lf'
w&iimfmp
k_.
B|
■a
BRITISH
MADE
Perfection
PirSK RUBBER
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emcraids, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
SD
THINK OF
SCHUTE,
BELL &C Lid.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: <»4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FSD
Britain’s
Motor
Masterpiece
In and the Shires, across the plains of
India and the desert tracks of Iraq, in the sun-
shine of Australia, or on the African veldt
everywhere where cars are used you will find
the Sunbeam.
Not only in mechanical efficiency but also in
coachwork of fine appearance and luxurious
comfort, Sunbeam leads the way.
Its high road speed, ease of control, security
of braking and stability under all conditions
ensure a performance of exceptionally high
standard.
The coachwork combines unusual beauty of line
with roomy accommodation.
Sunbeam cars for the Australian market are
specially built with the necessary ground clear-
ance, springing and cooling to ensure perfect
performance on the roughest roads and tracks
and. in the most tropical heat.
Complete catalogue will be'sent on application
to our Australian agents, or direct to our Export
Department.
AUTHORISED DISTRIBUTORS.
THE ALL BRITISH MOTOR CO. PTY., LTD., 111-113 Russell Street, Melbourne.
MESSRS. WILLIAMS, HILL & CAMERON, LTD., 91-97 Flinders Street, Sydney.
MESSRS. ARTHUR BALES, LTD., 367-371 Murray Street, Perth.
RASCH MOTORS, LTD., 69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT:
12 Princes Street, Hanover Square, London, W.l, England.
Cables ;
“SubeamocoLondon.
Head Office and Works:
Wolverhampton, England,
Agents for Egypt: MIDDLE EAST MOTOR AGENCY, 3 Kon-Elo Dick, Alexandria.
C.T.P.55
Pen and Picture
Shadow Shows
This column
for to-day is
dedicated to the
talkies, with
some compari-
sons and specu-
lations. A few
weeks ago the
Shadow Show-
man saw some alleged talking pictures. He not
only did not think much of them; he never
thought less of anything in his life. Then,
one day last week, he attended the Sydney
Regent, and came away feeling as joyful
as if he’d just managed to fly a kite of his
own making. In general these Regent talk-
ies (Movietones) were as far removed from
those of a few weeks earlier as to-morrow
is from yesterday. They did not represent
development to-date in this medium, either,
for they were copyrighted in 1927, and it is
about productions of the last few months
that the greatest whooping has been raised.
In detail, of course, there is much that can
be criticised without carping or croaking.
But viewed generally these talkies are suffi-
ciently good to bear witness to a great
triumph of invention.
The Regent showings included a brief
melodrama entitled “The Old Music Shoppe.”
It was screened first —very fortunately, be-
cause it enables the Devil’s Advocate
to get off his dirty work early. Totalling the
faults in it is like counting up the holes in
a colander. The photography, so excellent
in nearly all movies now, suddenly jumps
back 25. years. It is dim, blurred and un-
steady. The
situations, the
exits and en-
trances, the
switching off
from one
scene to an-
other all
these things
are most awk-
wardly man-
aged. Tli e
voices through-
out are far
too loud, except
in song, and ,
are not modu- i
lated. The act-
ing is stiff and
amateu r i s h ;
the story in-
sipid. To a
young woman
music - shop-
keeper comes
Foster, the
writer of “The
BESSIE LOVE, of “Any-
body Here Seen Kelly?”
Old Kentucky Home” and other coonish
melodies. He wants to sell her his latest
song for five dollars, but after he lias played
it over for her he is so moved by it that
he no longer wants to sell it, and, though
he is starving, gives it to her and goes. Next
day she reads in a paper that he is dead,
and with tearful eyes exclaims that, though
Foster may be forgotten, his songs never
will be. A feeble thing.
So much for detailed defects, and there
are others that could be mentioned. But
these defects are, apart from those of sound,
comparative, and in this the talkies have
youth on their side. The comparison is
with the movie art as it exists to-day, with
the near-perfection of photography, the
smoothness of running, the clever manage-
ment of the illusion of continuity. It is this
last, above all others, that the talkie-makers
wall, have to wrestle with. What they unques-
tionably are after is the illusion of realism,
and those breaks from one scene to another
which are quite acceptable on the silent
screen are serious defects here. For in-
stance, here is someone singing or talking,
but the running of the story demands a
shift to another scene. The voices are cut
off as with an axe, and the effect is most
unnatural. The importance of this con-
tinuity was emphasised by the talkie news-
reels which followed the music story, and in
which better photography greatly helped.
The “news” items included the choir
singing in St. Peter’s, Rome, and in the gar-
den of the Vatican. Here the defects which
have been mentioned were all absent. The
voices came out softly but beautifully, and
the slight movements of the choir and the
more noticeable ones of their aged conductor
aided the illusion of reality. Even better
in effectiveness were a speech delivered by
a representative American and two speeches,
one in Italian, the in badly-broken—-
in fact, shattered—-English, by Mussolini.
Here the talkers stood out in life-size, re-
mained, and the continuity was unbroken.
Synchronisation—a vile word which the
talkies will make a blight—was here, as in
the music shop and choir pieces, apparently
perfect. What is more, the voices came
straight from the mouths of the speakers, and
the wry spectacle of the mouth of Mussolini
trying to twist itself around English words
added still more to the illusion of reality.
(A note can be added here in parentheses;
The odiousness of the dread American twang,
over which numerous Bulletin writers have
been making paragraph-money for months, is
probably merely another of the world’s fal-
lacies. True, the American w 7 ho spoke was
cultured, but he definitely had the twang, and
just as definitely it was not unpleasant.
This Sliow T man believes that the brand of
twang objected to exists, in common with one
Irishman, one policeman and one Scotchman,
only on the vaudeville stage.)
A visit to Universal’s screening-room and
an hour there with a silent film immediately
after the Regent show 7 gave another pound
or so of weight to the reality element of the
talkies. The silent film “Anybody Here
Seen Kelly?” was a comedy of a Yank sol-
dier who told the goanna-farm story to
dozens of French girls, asked each to go to
U.S.A., apres le <juerre , and marry him, and
got the shock of his life when one of them
did turn up. Quite a ticklesome niece, with
Bessie Love very lovely as the French girl
and Tom Moore acting well as the soldier-
turned-traffic-cop. But throughout it this
Showman felt grieved because nobody spoke.
It seemed an astonishing experience to watch
them move their lips with no word issuing.
No longer could he grin at the silent joke,
mutely cracked and then told by the sub-
title. That, of course, is the final compli-
ment that can be paid to the effectiveness of
the talkies. It points to this, however, that
mixed programmes—talkies and silent pic-
tures —must be disastrous, unless, perhaps,
the silent ones are screened first. The Regent
has a complete programme of talkies, and
this Showman strongly commends it as an
entertainment. It is novel for one thing,
and, though holes may be shot in it in sun-
dry directions, through those holes the reason-
ing observer should be able to get a very
interesting view of the future.
The Palette
“Ilamer”: The statued bomber on the
Broken Ilill War memorial (B. 21/11/’2S)
was made from a small model, of which
Web Gilbert did a series, all remarkably
vivid in poise. After Gilbert’s deatji the
little masterpieces were exhibited in Mel-
bourne. Each one was almost perfect of
its kind, “On Guard,” a Digger with bayo-
net ready for action, being perhaps more
arresting than the bomber. It was rather
ghastly, though; the tenseness of the Digger’s
face, expectant of the thrust into his own
body, and the equally nauseating ramming
home of his own bayonet, were two features
not readily forgotten.
Gilbert Roach, who has the latest one-man
show at the Society of Arts Gallery, Adelaide,
seems to prefer misty Tasmania to his own
S. Aus. He deliberately avoids the clear —
merging into harsh —statement of the
moderns, preferring just to indicate, deli-
cately. Also he seems to have studied Turner
‘and other century-old English models, with
a good look at Corot, and the outcome is a
heavy, old-fashioned tone that has a distinct
appeal. Further, Roach is a skilled etcher,
with a delicate line. His work in this
medium is selling well.
“F.iS.”: If the same judgment is used for
the selection of the canvases for the proposed
National Gallery at Canberra as went to
the acquisition of the nucleus collection at
Federal Parliament House it will be no
advertisement of the artistic taste of the
country. It would seem as if a desire to
please paralyses the craftmanship of the
artist when he is called upon to portray
politicians and vice-regal potentates. The
portrait which is generally regarded at Can-
berra as the finest likeness is also the most
distinguished picture; it is Max Meldrum’s
study of Samuel Griffith. The next most
praiseworthy effort is “Senator Turley,” by
one of Meldrum’s pupils, Harley Griffith; as
a delineation of character it is as convincing
as a caricature by Low. I have a feeling
that these two examples of plain realism will
be very much alive when the eager flatteries
on either side of them are in oblivion.
The Inky Way
A.E.W.”: Geraldton (W.A.) is to have
an evening paper instead of its tri-weeklies
the Express and the Guardian. E. Con-
stantine, of the Guardian proprietary, will
be general manager of the new concern, and
Johnny Drew, Chief Secretary in the Collier
Cabinet, will have a seat on the directorate.
Drew has been connected with the Express
for nearly half a century, as editor most
of the time.
Twenty-year-old Kendall O’Connor is get-
ting limelight as an illustrator and cari-
caturist. He prepared the election car-
toons and posters for the Federal Country
party, and some of the pictorial appeals for
the Nats. At an exhibition in Canberra re-
cently he carried off most of the prizes for
water-color and black-and-white work. Now
he is going back to Melbourne to undergo
further study, and try to break into the com-
mercial art world.
“Troy”: The Greek invasion of Australia
commenced about 70 years ago, but the com-
munity has always been a scattered one. It
now has a connecting bond in the shape of
a monthly, printed at Brisbane in Greek and
English, which adjures Hellenes in the Com-
monwealth to take a pride, not only in the
ancient glories of their race, but in the insti-
tutions and ideals of their adopted country.
The new publication has the Australian flag
as the background for its title and comes out
strong in favor of a White Australia.
“F.S.”: The Bulletin’s annual prizes
supply the material basis for the formation
of an Australian school of novelists; the
Australian Literature Society (Vic.) pro-
poses to offer the gauds thereof by annually
pinning a gold medal on the successful
entrant’s breast. It isn’t put that way—in
fact, the society is careful to state that the
novel must have been published in book form.
But as the best novel written in Australia
is pretty certain to have first found its way
into a Bulletin competition, that is what
the offer amounts to. R. A. Crouch is the
new society’s most articulate supporter.
“Lex”: Norman Birkett, the fashionable
London “silk,” was responsible lately for
one of the strangest payments into court on
record. As counsel for Liverpool Even-
ing Express in a libel suit brought by W.
C. Hobbs, of “Mr. A” notoriety, he prof-
fered fl. The law says that if a jury (which,
of course, is not allowed to kno-w when
money has been paid into court) awards less
damages than the amount tendered, then
costs are on plaintiff as from the moment of
payment in. Because juries nearly always think
in pounds sterling payments in are "usually
made in guineas—100 guineas when a ver-
dict of £lOO or less is expected, and so on.
Why did Birkett pay in £1? Obviously be-
cause he was confident of the contemptuous
verdict which he got. But he might have
registered contempt much more devastatingly
fly paying in Juries practically never find
in any sum between Jd. and £l.


They 11 Serve X) u Loyally/
and Wfell /
3
<//i
VtSZI!
?£On
tr.
A ®
il\trJ=, L r7-l-^,^ V
:.«^
w
SSmW-
f '3
yr
r~
m
SsZ 4
LL
C«3
<0,
3
; 1 . s
mm
PI
3S
9
m
[VwWi
:w.
H
sr\3
Q\ Q
M
ISL
tg|g§§$
iggs
y,. r
v> ~r-
s&g??'
«Nn'
IaVWCvv .
5S«T •
r-
\;jy
m
>v
cj^sofi.
trCP
y*soN
3 ties
8.P.4a
Detail tkeßapsons
for Duty oh your Car
T N the days of Queen Anne of England, when
Marlborough led her armies from victory to
victory on the battle fields of Europe, the British
soldier’s life was as hard as well it could be. Yet,
in spite of all the roughness and real hardship, that
same soldier came through smiling as British sol-
diers have ever done in every age. He overcame
all difficulties and rendered loyal service to his
queen and country.
It is because of loyal, true and faithful service rendered in face
of the hardest conditions that the Grenadier of the period has
been chosen to represent the tyre of hardest wear . . . “The
World’s Best” ... Rapson. For here you have the strongest,
most serviceable, most economical tyre ever built... a tyre like
no other in either principle or the care with which it is made.
Detail Rapsons for duty on your car, and ensure for yourself
that loyal tyre service, mile after mile, under any and all
conditions, that only such a superlative tyre can provide.
One point more! This truly wonderful tyre, a tyre you’ll
be proud to have upon your car, costs no more than other first-
grade tyres. Ask your garage man for a price list giving full
particulars.
AUSTRALIAN MADE TYRES
Wholesale only:
Rapson Distributors, (N.S.W.) Ltd . Rapson House, 275 Clarence Street »
Sydney , N.S.W.
Rapson Tyre & Rubber Co. (Aust.) Ltd. :: . : Rapsonia, Tasmania,
(NQLVd]


ACCURATE SHOOTING AT 500 YARDS.
NEW IMPROVED CADET RIFLE.
Hundreds of satisfied Shooters have used
297/230 CALIBRE CADET RIFLES.
This is an ideal sporting rifle. Fires a central fire cartridge larger than a .22
calibre, and is accurate up to 500 yards. 24in. barrel. Under-lever Martini
action, quick and certain in extraction of empty shells. Detachable lock. Elevating
ladder rear sight and protected bead front sight. Fitted complete with cleaning
rod and brush 75/-
CARTRIDGES.—Long (actual size illustrated) 7/6 per 100
Short 5/6 „ „
Va
PTY. LTD.
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Don't wish for the Best—get it.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
AN OLD “SPOT” MELLOWED BY AGE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney. U.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Greensil, who showed promising form as
a sprinter at the Christmas meetings, had
a good win in the Sefton Handicap at War-
wick Farm on Saturday. She is a Green-
stead mare, and another offspring of Green-
stead in Greenwich —both were at 6 to 1
in the ring—looked like running second to
her until he weakened and was beaten for
that position by Black Douglas. These
Greensteads are four-year-olds, and, judi-
ciously placed, are likely to have a profitable
season, especially as both are pretty low
down in the weights. Gold Tinge, the 5 to
2 favorite, ran disappointingly, and so did
Leisure Hour (4 to 1) ; interference is
blamed in each ease.
Another Australian sire—Poitrel, no less
—was responsible for the winner of the Jan-
nary Handicap. Starpoi is the animal’s
name, and he surprised by running away
from a fairly good field in 2min. 6sec. for
the 10 furlongs, Deferential (14 to 1) and
Frances Cyllene (5 to 1) being in second
and third places. Starpoi is owned by Frank
Taverna and Miss Ruby Jacques, and is
trained by Taverna, who seems to make
racing pay, though his critics declare he
knows more about running restaurants. Star-
poi is a rather erratic beggar, but on this
occasion he galloped generously for a small
boy named Parr, and McShortodds was all
grins when his number went up, the price
being 20 to 1, with few takers.
* * * *
Fondant was the unlucky horse of the
holiday meetings at Randwick. In Tatt.’s
Club Cup, as in the Summer Cup, he was
defeated by a margin so narrow that only
the judge could decide that he had been
defeated at all. After a bad start —bad as
far as he was concerned —Kelso’s game and
consistent gelding was in the lead half a
mile from home and, challenged by Leadight,
he beat off that nag after a stiff struggle.
Then Vallino came at him, and the pair
battled it out for two furlongs, the mare
getting the verdict by a “short” head. She
was patiently and, at the crisis, vigorously
ridden by Toohey, who had not been seen to
advantage on her in previous races. There
was a grossly unsportsmanlike demonstration
against the winner, who had been backed
time after time by the stable, and was allowed
to run loose on this occasion—she went out
at 12 to 1, Fondant being favorite at 5 to 2.
Fondant goes up 91b. to Bst. 101 b., Yallino
111 b. to Bst. 71b. and Leadight 81b. to 7st.
131 b. in the Anniversary Handicap on Jan.
26. Leadight will give' more trouble in that
race if a stronger boy is engaged.
For Moorefield on Saturday:—
Maiden Handicap: Inducement.
Gold Cup: Quince; next, Nut Cup.
Three-year-old Handicap: Margarethal;
next, Gold Tinge.
Moorefield Handicap: Lucy Thrice; next,
Frances Cyllene.
Carlton Welter: Bacagi; next, The Grind-
stone.
❖ * # *
Pneumonia has struck down C. H. Brien,
who, with his father, was part-owner of the
Kingsfield stud, near Aberdeen (N.S.W.).
An old King’s School boy, he early became
associated with his father in the manage-
ment and development of Kingsfield, which
the pair brought to the front rank of Aus-
tralian thoroughbred studs. They also raced
Pantheon, Rampion, Ramulus and other
good ones. G. H. Brien was only 34.
:{c :.k i\t :j:
S. W. Biggins seems to have found out
what was wrong with Kentle, who ran away
with the Brisbane Cup in the winter of
1927 but failed to reproduce that form in
Sydney and Melbourne. After giving the
Kenilworth gelding some schooling over
hurdles, Biggins took him to Adelaide, where
the Queenslander has carried off a couple
of races in capital style. So the Biggins
stable —uncommonly successful the last year
or two —now shelters a horse that will have
to be respected for the Australian and the
Sydney Cup.
* * $ *
The Perth Cup was a very rough race,
and interference ruined the chances of
Crystal Stream (favorite at threes) and the
W.A. Derby winner, Second Wind, while
Spoony fell and had to be destroyed. Jemi-
“THE MAN WITH A PULL.”
dar (Martian —Ayah), Ductile and Ex-
ceeder had the finish to themselves, Jemidar
winning in fine style; his time, 3min.
is a State record for two miles. He
was second favorite at 6to 1; the other two
were outsiders.
* * * *
The Burrabadeen gelding Savadeen has
proved expensive to Melbourne race-goers
lately. Many of them took a very short price
about him in a Welter at Mentone, only to
see him beaten out of a place, so when the
more or less noble steed lobbed home an easy
winner of the Sandown Park Handicap at
the week-end they gave vent to hoarse cries
of ragb. The betting on this race was very
wide, Vagrant, Savadeen, Manacre and Sus-
pension being at fives, with Pinnacle and old
Batteryman at sixes. Always galloping
smoothly, Savadeen ran to the front at the
six furlongs, and finished lengths ahead of
Pinnacle and Manacre, who got among the
money. An inquiry into the reversal of form
was opened and adjourned.
Little O’Brien, Jimmy Truskett’s appren-
tice, who is riding like a coming champion
these days, had the mount on Savadeen. He
had been successful in the Trial Welter on
the hot favorite, Cave King (10 to 9 on),
a rather promising son of Royal Comedy
and Cave Queen. Eli Phillips’s Sarchedon
gelding Apis, equal favorite, at fours, with
Greener, was first home in the Plate from
The Wensum (5 to 1) and The Demon (7
to 1), a coming winner. Results thus far
had favored backers, but the last race, the
Jumpers’ Flat, was a disaster for them, Coeur
de Lion (20 to 1), once highly thought of,
defeating the favorite, Migrant.
* * * *
“Don Crew” : The late “Stepper” Davies
was perhaps the greatest character the
Queensland turf has known. During a long-
ago racing carnival at Rockhampton (Q.)
he found himself in an oyster saloon seated
opposite a drunk who was spoiling for a
scrap. “’Oo the ’ell are you?” said the
stranger to “Stepper.” “You bounce in here
like a tennis ball and think y’ own the joint!”
“N-n-n-n —no, I don’t,” replied “Stepper,” who
stuttered. “Y’ do, blast yer,” insisted the
drunk, “an’ I’ll tell yer straight I don’t
like yer face.” “Don’t yer?” said “Stepper,”
who was easily nettled. “W-w-ell, if it c-c-
-comes to that I ain’t in l-love with your
flamin’ dial.” Thereupon the drunk picked
up one of the three bottles in the cruet in
front of him, and “shaped” with it at “Step-
per.” “H-h-old on, s-son !” the imperturbable
one said; “I’ll give y’ er word of advice.
Always use the ’ole c-c-cruet when you’re
s-s-scrapping in er feed-joint! You’ll have a
t-t-three-to-one c-c-cliance, then.”
* * * *
“Adelaide” : The fall in totalisator receipts
in South Aus. is
alarmingly steady.
From August 1 to
January 1 they
are £144,000 down
as compared with
last year. Govern-
ment, which takes
5i per cent., feels
sorry, and the rac-
ing clubs, which
take 7i, are get-
ting desperate.
Port Adelaide
Christmas meeting
had a drop of
£35,000, and S.A.
Jockey Club
£20.000 on one day.
This goes side by
side with a steady
police campaign
for removing from
courses all persons
suspected of book-
making—a crimi-
nal offence in S.A.;
76 were thrown out
in the three days
above mentioned.
Whether this will
be a remedy re-
mains to be seen.
Some people think
it is one of the
causes. At any
rate, on a roasting
midsummer day, a
lot of people find it more comfortable to fre-
quent the local pub and there get results by
wireless.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
The chief item on the mixed bill at Syd-
ney Stadium on Saturday night was the
15-round affray between the prehistoric
Harry Stone and the local scrapper Jimmy
Pearce. Weights were given as Pearce lOst.
91b. and Stone lOst. 4|lb. After the full
15 rounds had been expended largely by both
men in fanning the atmosphere, the decision
went to Pearce on points, the crowd dis-
agreeing vigorously. The Yankee seemed to
have a lot the better of what exchanges there
were, and Pearce’s inability to land on the
illusive one was marked throughout the mill,
though he did his puzzled best.
H: # sj:
Followers of boxing throughout Australia
will hear with regret of the death in Sydney
of Neville Forder, who as “Boxer Major”
ranked for years as one of the leading
writers on the game. By birth a Maorilander,
Forder came to Australia as a youngster,
and first made his name as a sporting
journalist with the Referee, of which he was
boxing editor for some years. Later he
carried out the same duties for Sydney
Sportsman and Truth, and he contributed
to The Buixetin for years. 11l health
weighed heavily on him when he grew old,
but he battled along bravely until he took
the count at 73. At his best Forder had a
very bright pen and was utterly fearless.
Some of his reports are still treasured by
the fancy, especially one beginning: “Two
pro-beer pugs [names given! met at the
Gaiety last night for the has-been champion-
ship.”
The Ins and Outs
Australia lost the third Test, and with
it the rubber, by three wickets at Melbourne
after seven days of play, in which the for-
tune of the game favored first one side and
then the other. The closing stages were par-
ticularly exciting, for the Englishmen, having
lost 4 for 31S, wanted only 10 runs to win,
and dropped three more wickets in getting
them. Australia’s bad start on the opening
day was rectified by Kippax (100) and
Ryder (112). Kippax batted in glorious style,
and finally refuted the press critics who
have claimed him as too “temperamental” for
Test cricket, while Ryder gave another grand
exhibition of forcing batsmanship. More was
to come, for Bradman, who had also been
rated by some of the experts as not up to
Test requirements, made a sterling 79, and
was well backed by a’Beckett with 31, the
innings ending for 397. Larwood, who had
lost some of his terrors, took 3 for 127,
while Geary got three of the tail-enders for
83. White gave a remarkable exhibition,
bowling 57 overs for one wicket and 64
runs.
Hobbs went early in England’s first in-
nings, and Sutcliffe (58), Chapman (24)
and Hendren (19) did not. do anything
alarming. Hammond, who had been going
at liis best, was then joined by Jardine, and
proceeded to break the bowlers’ hearts and
the Test records by reaching the 200 mark
for the second time in Test matches —the
only batsman to do it —when he was magni-
ficently caught by a’Beckett off Blackie, who
was bowling in his old form. Jardine got
to 69, but the St. Kilda veteran, now on
his toes, helped Grimmett to clean up the
remainder of the side for 417, ending with
the great average of 6 for 94. Grimmett
got a couple of wickets, and Hendry and
a’Beckett one each.
Woodfull again saw Richardson go cheaply,
but. though Hendry also went early, found
a partner in Kippax (41). Then came
Bradman to help, and when Woodfull went
for 107 Bradman was well on his way to
his first Test century of 312. Oxenham (39)
was the only other to get runs, and all were
out for 351. White again bowled superbly,
but was this time rewarded with 5 for 107
off 57 overs!
When Hobbs left l.b.w. to Blackie in the
second innings of the visitors, the score was
105 for one wicket, although the pitch,
affected by rain, was playing up dangerously.
The Australian bowlers, however, were un-
able to take advantage of the chance, and
the experienced Englishmen tided over the
danger. Sutcliffe played one of the best
innings of his career for 135, and was well
helped by Hammond (32), Hendren (45)
and Jardine (33). Then Chapman and Tate
went for five runs, and Australian hopes rose
again, to be dashed when Geary got the runs
with a drive for four. Grimmett, "who dis-
missed Sutcliffe and Jardine, was the most
successful trundler, while the fielding all
round was desperately keen. The attendance
for the seven days—262,l47—was a record.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Only an expert bomber in an
aeroplane could have damaged the wicket at
the M.C.C. on the night preceding the final
day of the Test. Two men paced to and fro
alongside it from dusk to dawn.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: The two flappers were sitting
in Melbourne Cricket Ground stand, such a
large portion of which is reserved for the
gentlemen of the press. The intense-looking
one nudged her companion and pointed at
a row of' busy scribblers. “You can tell
at a glance, can’t you,” she murmured, “that
those are men, not of action, but of words!”
The literary giants indicated included P. G,
11. Fender, Armstrong, Noble, Worrail, Peter
McAlister, Dr. Rowley Pope, Charlie Eady,
Joe Travers, Blackham (he played in 35
Tests), Ponsford and Clem Hill!
❖ * *
“Bullfighter”: Several thrilling incidents
marked the first day of the Test in Mel-
bourne. Twelve small boys got on top of
an awning, and play had to be suspended
while two policemen dislodged them. Forty
small boys then encroached on the field,
necessitating another halt while the umpires
walked slowly across and reasoned with
them. Twelve constables then filed on and'
relieved the umpires. The game was once
more held up while two of the constables
were removed from in front of the sight-
board, where they had assumed a somnolent
position. A further halt was called when it
was seen that Jardine, in the deep field, had
become an object of interest to a dog or
half-dog which had trespassed on the sacred
arena. I am inclined to think that the
growing sensitiveness of Test players will
ultimately lead to matches being played in
large sound-proof glass belljars, from which
all dust and insects have been removed,
while spectators will only be permitted to
view the game from a safe distance by tele-
vision.
(Continued on page 41.)
HERO-WORSHIP.
[Fon The Bulletin.]
Who is it roosts the highest on the boughs
Of Fame., among all Adam’s striving sons?
Who is it makes as commonplace as cows
Distinguished military paragons
And puissant statesmen cheap as penny
buns?
Who towers above the herd like a giraffe?
The cricketer —no two opinions—
Think of the struggle for his autograph!
Padded and gloved, behold him! On his
brows
No crown or coronet —such gauds he shuns.
A faded cap his eminence avows.
His name is on the lips of millions.
With cuts and mammoth drives he thrills
and stuns,
Or scatters stumps (less frequently) like
chaff;
And eager youngsters in battalions
Daily beset him for his autograph.
His century with deathless fame endows
Him—and his land. ’Mid deep-breathed
benisons
He rescues myriads from despond’s deep
sloughs
And harvests glowing eulogies by tons.
Britain and furthest-flung Dominions,
One half in triumph, in dejection half,
Acclaim him among earth’s supremest ones
And breathless boys beseech his autograph.
Who has such place in Youth’s bright
lexicons,
Makers of laws —or lyrics? I should
laugh.
Lord, let me rather make the nation’s runs
To set a value on my autograph.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


SUNSHINE
CULTIVATING
AND SEEDING
MACHINERY
\
IKIK
THE “SUNDERCUT” STUMP JUMP
DISC CULTIVATING PLOUGH
10-disc cuts 5 feet.
14-disc cuts 7 feet.
Unequalled for cultivating hard set fallow,
or fallow covered by heavy weed growth,
paddy-melon, stinkwort, thistles, etc.
Does splendid work in virgin Mallee soils.
Levers fitted for team or tractor pull.
THE “SUNTYNE” COMBINED GRAIN
AND FERTILIZER DRILL AND
SPRING TYNE CULTIVATOR.
17 tyne, sows 8 rows, covering 5 ft.
25 tyne, sows 12 rows, covering 74 ft.
29 tyne, sows 14 rows, covering 8 \ ft. •
33 tyne, sows 16 rows, covering 94ft.
41 tyne, sows 20 rows, covering 12ft.
49 tyne, sows 24 rows, covering 14ft.
Cultivates and sows to any desired depth.
Forms a compact seed bed with thoroughly
pulverised mulch. Tractor Hitch and
Lever can be fitted when ordered.
Write for descriptive literature, prices
and particulars of extended terms.
H. V. McKAY PTY.,LTD
Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine.
Branches and Agencies:
664 BOURKE STREET WEST, MELBOURNE.
95-97 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY.
Corner MURRAY AND KING STREETS, PERTH.
H. V. McKAY (QUEENSLAND), LTD., STANLEY STREET, SOUTH
BRISBANE.
> , -
r
i
A
■>WHY
m
i
<W l/l
(W
Easier! Quicker!!
The old methods of post-hole digging
are laborious—and costly.
The SEYMOUR POST-HOLE
DIGGER is made solely for the pur-
pose of speeding up the digging of
post-holes.
Owing to its peculiar construction, it
is only necessary to lean on the handles
and turn the Digger.
The SEYMOUR bores its way into any
soil quickly and easily.
This is one of the tools that every man
on the land should have.
It pays for itself on the first few holes.
In the following sizes:—
Size .3 4 5 6 7 in.
Price: 9/6 9/6 9/6 9/6 10/3
Size 8 9 10 in.
Price 11/3 12/6 13/-
Proprietanj limited
51-65 Bathurst Street, Sydney. 582-592 Collins Street, Melbourne.
116-130 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
TWO DAYS SHORTER
THE NEW
FAST SERVICE TO
AMERICA
171 DAYS
Via Fiji, Samoa, Hawaii
The fastest service between Australia and America is now
established—a record-breaking achievement.
With the addition of the swift express liner "Malolo” in
the Matson Honolulu-San Francisco Service, this through
voyage is now TWO ENTIRE DAYS SHORTER.
To take advantage of this arrangement, passengers for America
may transfer from the "Sierra,” "Sonoma” or "Ventura” to
the "Malolo” at Honolulu. It assures a great saving in time.
It costs no more to take advantage of this service.
The following sailings from Sydney connect with this express
service:
’'Ventura” - January 19th
"Sonoma” - March 2nd
"Sierra” - - April 13 th
"Sierra” - - June 15th
"Sonoma” - - July 6th
"Sierra” - August 17th
"Ventura” - Sept. 28th
"Sonoma” - - Nov. 9th
"Sierra” - - Dec. 21st
REGULAR SAILINGS EVERY THIRD SATURDAY.
Call or write for descriptive booklets.
Cheap excursion tickets to Honolulu issued all the year round.
(ON Lit
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
B 29
Local Agents: Mcllwraith McEacharn Ltd., 9 4-96 William St.. Melbourne; 117-119 King
William St., Adelaide ; Fremantle, Perth, Albany ; Howard Smith Ltd., Brisbane, Townsville


The Equitable Life Assurance
Company, of Australasia, Ltd.
Authorised Capital, £200,000.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
BRANCHES:
N.S.W.: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victoria: 360 Collins St., Melbourne.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
Mil
B I
!!ii
When in Brisbane stay at
The GRESHAM HOTEL
100 ROOMS.
One Minute G.P.O.
One Minute Railway Station.
One Minute Wharves.
Proprietor:
T. M. AHERN.
SDF
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
BOY’S BATS
SD
AUTOGRAPHED BY
ALAN KIPPAX
Alan Kippax Autograph “G.P.5.,” 37/6
This bat is about l|in. shorter than
full size.
Cannon, Size 6 24/6
Stuart Surridge, Size 6 “College” 19/6
Stuart Surridge, Size 5 “College” 18/-
Demon Smiter, Size 6 15/6
Demon Smiter, Size 5 13/6
Demon Smiter, Size 4 11/6
Somerset, Size 6 10/6
Somerset, Size 5 9/6
Somerset, Size 4 8/6
All bats have spring handles with
rubber insertion. Postage paid.
N.S.W. SPORTS
STORE, LTD.,
11.13 MARTIN PLACE.
SYDNEY.
ALAN KIPPAX, Director.
The Ins and Outs
Villainous- catching lost Queensland its
second match against N.S.W. on Sydney
Cricket Ground. The Northerners started
off with the fine score of 435, which included
a good 143 by F. C. Thompson. Thanks to
half a dozen dropped catches, N.S.W. was
able to respond with 457, and thus won on
the first innings. Seddon and Punch, who
scored 80 and 72 respectively, were repeat-
edly let off, as was the country man, McCabe,
who, nevertheless, showed himself a genuine
class batsman. Queensland made 364 in its
second knock, Otto Nothling banging up a
capital 121. The Ma State had lost 7 for
304 when time ended the game in its favor.
The bowling was poor all through the match.
* * * *
“Stiff Back’’: A careful survey of the Test
horizon indicates that our greatest need is a
few players like Charlie Bannerman and J. W.
Trumble. Of course these men may not now
be able to stop a ball in the field or chase
it to the boundary. Why worry about that?
There are always hundreds of small boys
ready to hop over the fence and return the
leather. Our old fieldsmen should not be
expected to perform those menial jobs. We
don’t want young players; the selectors don’t
want them; Chapman doesn’t want them.
* * * *
“Sheelah”: In tln.se days when women
butt into most sports I wonder it any town
or village in Australia boasts a female cricket
club. One existed here (Broadmarsli, T.)
for three seasons, coached by the captain of
the male XI. Trophies were donated annu-
ally by local municipal councillors, and in
the last season the winning bowler had an
average that even Larwood might envy.
Nowadays the ex-ladies of the willow mostly
play tennis or push ’prams.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: Some of the English news-
papers are girding at Warwick Armstrong’s
charge against Larwood that he deliberately
buzzes his fast bumping stuff at the bats-
man’s body. English critics have accused
Jack Gregory of doing the same thing, and in
the years that the locust hath scoffed there
was a unanimous newspaper decision against
Ernest Jones for “bowling for the man.” It
was Jones who, on his first appearance in
England in 1896, landed W. G. Grace such a
red-hot one in the ribs as staggered even
that colossus. What the “Old Man” said
when he got his breath back was echoed by
nearly every journal in Britain next morning,
but not quite in the same terms.
£ * * #
“Fitzeray”: The Board of Control’s
arrangements for cricket tours and visits
during the next few years received a set-
back when the West Indians found them-
selves unable to come along, as was hoped,
next season. The team played very attrac-
tive cricket in Britain, and as it specialised
in fast howling Australian batsmen would
have got some much-needed batting practice.
South Africans are talking about coming over
in 1931-32, but as the terms offered by the
board, 50 per cent, of the gross takings at
the outer ground, do not err on the side of
liberality, that visit may fall through, too.
* * # *
“Tenth Slip”: No one seems to have
noticed that Clarrie Grimmett celebrated his
36th birthday on Christmas Day. The slow
bowler first saw the light in Dunedin (M.L.),
and played for Wellington and in inter-pro-
vincial matches for several years, a fact
which makes it harder to understand Aus-
tralia’s tardy recognition of his bowling
ability. N.S.W., with Mailey then at his
best, passed him on to Melbourne, and after
vouchsafing him a few games in second
elevens Victoria gave him a trial against
South Australia at Adelaide in 1923-24. He
took 9 for 98 in that game, and next year
transferred to S.A.
* * * *
“W. G. Snort”: One of the features of the
English cricket tour is the hide of some of
the experts who lay down the law in daily
papers on how the game should be played
and generally conducted. One of these took
it on himself the other day to address a
severe warning to Australian umpires in
general, and to those officiating in the N.S.W.-
Q. match in Sydney in particular. There was
a disputed case of stumping, which the
umpires settled without, apparently, consult-
ing the writer of the article. He warned
them forthwith that “incidents of this kind
cannot be allowed to continue in first-class
cricket.” Nothing remains but for the
N.S.W.C.A. to fire the offenders at once.
* * * *
“Aunt Sally”: While Duckworth’s 1 per-
sistent habit of appealing is irritating (B.
2/l/’29), it does not justify the treatment
meted out to the little Lancashire man by
the crowd in Melbourne the other day. His
reputation had preceded him, and he was
subjected to the heckling which usually
follows in such cases, as Fender and others
who have trodden on the crowd’s corns by
accident could testify. However, the Mel-
bournites went for him specially on the first
day of the Test, when he took a ball from
Larwood on the leg side and appealed. What
followed is said to have been the ugliest
exhibition of bad sportsmanship seen on an
Australian ground. There can be no doubt
,hat the temper of the crowd in Melbourne
and elsewhere is merely a reflex of the carp-
ing and unsportsmanlike attitude adopted
by the less responsible section of the press.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: An Australian firm
which has long been in the habit of granting
cash bonuses to Test players at fixed rates
for certain feats has published an interim
report of the winners to date. Chapman
heads the list, having earned £l7 45., while
the others share in varying proportions, down
to Grimmett with a modest two bob. The
position is interesting as regards the three
English amateurs. It is possible that they
do not accept this money for themselves, but
pass it on to the professional element of the
team, or to charities. Acceptance of the cash
for personal use is undoubtedly an act of
professionalism, and one that one cannot
understand the Marylebone Club countenanc-
ing for a moment.
* 4= 4= *
“Solomon”: The Sydney journal which
has been featuring a “magnetic” scoring
board in front of its office which records the
progress of the Test matches has been claim-
ing that the idea is a new one. It is very
much like other contraptions of the kind,
save that a ball moves up and down the
wicket and about the field. But even this
feature is not original. Victor Cohen, who
managed the 1593 Eleven overseas, told
the writer recently that he had watched the
same device in use in New York to chronicle
the progress of a big baseball match 35
years ago.
Racquet and Bawl
The only representative match between the
touring Englishmen and Australia concluded
in Sydney on Saturday, the home side win-
ning by 4 rubbers, 14 sets, .127 games to 2
rubbers, 10 sets, 117 games. There was a
BITS FROM THE NOVELISTS.
“Not for the first time that day- he fancied
he could detect in the other’s voice a
distinctly appealing note.”
poor attendance, but the tennis was of high
quality. Higgs won from Kalms, but Craw-
ford evened matters by downing Austin, both
matches running to 5 sets. Gregory caused
a surprise by defeating Hopman in three
straight sets. Collins had only to take the
remaining singles to land a win for England,
but a splendid stand by Jim Willard, who
had been selected as an emergency, saved
the day, the N.S.W. man winning a great
match by 3 sets to 1. The two doubles
matches were won by Australia, the Craw-
ford-Hopman and Kalms-Willard combina-
tions defeating the Gregory-Austin, Higgs-
Collins pairs respectively.
* 4= 4c 4c
“Cut Shot”: France has come forward
with a proposal to reduce the unwieldiness
of the preliminary rounds of the Davis Cup
by dividing Europe into two zones, and it is
suggested that America should follow suit.
The American area is the most scattered of
them all, including as it does several of the
South American republics on occasion,
Mexico, Cuba, Canada and Japan. It is
probable that Uncle Sam will adopt the sug-
gestion, having Canada, Japan and America
the northern zone and including the others
in the southern.
* * * *
“Cut Shot”: The rise to prominence of
French tennis marked the beginning of the
end for the grass court. For a long time
there has been an endeavor in the tennis
world to arrive at a uniform court surface,
and since grass is impossible in many places,
it is obvious that a dirt or artificial surface
must sooner or later become the standard.
W. T. Tilden is the latest to declare himself
openly on the side of the dirt court, since
this can be absolutely standardised in con-
sistency and color—a thing impossible with
the variable grass court. Probably three-
quarters of the world’s tennis is played on
earth courts, while in France no other type
is used.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Glenelg”: South Australian golfers are
beginning to realise that there is no such
thing as an off season for the game in Aus-
tralia, and are finding that the crowding of
competitions into a few months leads to con-
gestion—a fact which their confr&res in the
Eastern States have tumbled to long ago.
It has been the custom in the past to hold
the country championship meeting on one
course, but it has now been decided to follow
the N.S.W. principle of splitting the com-
petition up among several. In addition to the
open amateur championships, there will pro-
bably be a professional event next season,
so Wheat State golfers are in for a busy
time.
* * * *
“Iconoclast”: Has it ever been settled who
was really responsible for golf, or is it one
of those things that go back to time whereof
the memory of man runneth not to the con-
trary, as Mr. Blackstone has observed? Both
the Scots and the Dutch have been blamed,
but it would appear that the thing has had
a long and unsuspected existence in other
parts of the world. According to an Ameri-
can journal it was played in Savannah, the
chief city of Georgia (U.S.A.), as long ago
as 1796. The local club recently celebrated
the fact by putting up a bronze tablet in the
club house, which announces that Savannah
is the birthplace of golf in America. Many
would have maintained a discreet silence on
the subject, but these Americans are notor-
iously prone t 6 rush in where even an Aus-
tralian cricket player-writer would fear to
tread. *
***=*•
“Delia”: That par. about the Broken Hill
grasshoppers incommoding the golfers (B.
26/12/’2S) reminds me that in the wide open
spaces where men are men, etc., and sheep
are invariably cows, one gets nearer to wild
life while golfing than even the frequenters
of that Sydney club of which Billy Hughes
is a member. Playing once on a Western
Queensland station, I had to sink a six-foot
putt to win. In spite of the primitive green,
the ball went down with that emphatic click
so dear to the golfing ear. The smile froze
on my face when it instantly leaped into
the air and, hitting the edge of the tin,
rolled a couple of feet away. As we both
stood astounded, a large green frog climbed
aggressively out of the hole and —climbed
back again. I was so upset that when my
opponent claimed the hole and the match
I gave in without a struggle. He was a
Scotsman, anyway.
* * * *
“Matakitaki”: The golfer whose ball
landed in a tin (B. 21/11/’2B) recalls an-
other unfortunate. He was playing a medal
round at a country club in M.L., and found
his ball had lodged in a jam-tin full of water
on the edge of the fairway. He contended
it was in casual water through the green, and
that he could lift and -drop without penalty.
His opponent said the water would be perma-
nent as long as the tin remained. Unable to
reach any finality, my friend decided to play
the ball where it lay and trust to luck.
Accordingly he gave the tin a hearty swipe
with a mid-iron, but unfortunately topped
his shot and practically closed the tin up
with the ball inside, the position being worse
than ever. In desperation he had another
clout with a heavy mashie and broke the
shaft. This finished him, and he left for
the 19th after consigning the framers of the
Rules of Golf to the regions of the unblest.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: A recent Bulletin reference
to the fact that British professional golfers
are beginning to go after the big money offer-
ing on the Continent and in both the
Americas call attention to recent appoint-
ments of “pros.” to the two new courses
in Windsor Park. Most of the big men in
British professional golf applied for the jobs
of head professional, but in each instance a
comparatively obscure man has been given
the billet. The fact is that the bigger a
professional is in competition golf, the less
use he is to the members who pay him as a
coach and general superintendent of the
playing side of the game. The same tendency
to go for the big stuff and ignore the imme-
diate job is not unknown among Aus-
tralian cracks. The British example might
be noted by one or two of these.
* * * *
“Grafton”: The Kogarah (N.S.W.)
golfers, with their course laid out on Moore-
field racecourse, need not worry overmuch
as to their game on race days. The Grafton
club has its ground within the racecourse
and members play undisturbed by either the
dead-game sports or the cawing of the
Rooks. As each race starts they stand like
grouped statues, men, women and caddies
watching the galloping gee-gees until they
crawl past the winning post. Then the
clubs swing again, all the more lightheartedly
because no one has had a bob. on the dead
certainty that came last As play ceases
at the start of each race, the aristocratic
prads have no complaint to make of a fast
ball speeding them up.
* $ * ' *
“Brassey”: The importance of good putt-
ing is recognised by all golfers, and by none
more than that great majority which can
never learn to putt. Some figures recently
quoted in an American golfing jour-
nal show how much depends on accuracy on
the green in big golf. Five out of the last
seven American open championships have
been decided by a putt on the final green.
In 1922 Gene Sarazen beat Bobby Jones by a
stroke at the final hole, and the following
year R. Cruickshank downed the amateur
crack in the same fashion. In 1925 Jones
tied with Macfarlane with his final putt,
and the latter won in the play off, the green
again deciding the issue. Next year Jones
beat Turnesa with a putt, and in 1927 Tom
Armour and H. Cooper halved the match
with a putt on the last green, Armour win-
ning the play-off.* * *
“Claypan”: The decision of Winton golf
club in far-western Queensland to save its
sand greens from being blown away by dress-
ing them with motor oil (B. 24/10/’2B) has
been anticipated by many out-back clubs
faced with the same difficulty. One of the
latest to join the list is Moree (N.S.W.),
which has improved on the Queensland idea.
The “green” is first sprinkled with oil from
a watering-can, after which the oil is
sprinkled with sand and the whole rolled.
South Africans in the same fix used to take a
leaf from the Dutch and make their greens
as the Doppers made the floors of their farm-
houses, of a mixture of clay and cowdung.
This was tightly rammed, and when set and
dry was periodically polished with bullock’s
blood. The result was a smooth and tough
surface, impervious to rain, and with a
considerable amount of “life” in it, in spite
of the hard surface.
(Continued on next page.)


o
a
JflOGffß
iwswtfl
Ensure efficient running by fitting B.E.S.
SPARK PLUGS. A type for every car, truck,
tractor, cycle, aeroplane and marine engine.
Fully guaranteed. All garages. Price 4/6.
Manufactured by
Australian Spark Plugs Pty., Ltd.
562 Spencer Street, Melbourne, C.l.
'Phones: F 4947, F 5961.
Chains-Chains - Chains -Chains
FSD
Australian-made—better than Imported
Support Your Secondary Industries
Non-skid, hand-forged chains for a Ford to a
7-ton truck.
Chains for Collieries.
Chains for Brickyards.
Pit-cage chains.
Lashing chains.
Messenger and Steering-wheel chains.
Sling, Snigging, Plough and leading chains.
Roller and Conveyor chains of all descriptions.
Mooring and Ships’ Cable chains.
Made from best Staffordshire iron.
The only complete chain works in the Common-
wealth. ,
All chains tested to Lloyd’s standard and
certificates issued,
BLOOMERS CHAINS, LTD.,
BRISBANE.
J 0
1
World’s Pigeon Championship.
Melbourne Gun Club, July 6, 1928.
Ist. W. BAULDERSTONE (S.A.).
3rd. “CALROSSIE” (Vic.).
Both used
W. W. GREENER
GUNS.
There is no better
Shooting Gun made.
Procurable from all GUN DEALERS.
Catalogues on Application.
Wholesale Representatives ;
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.
405 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE, C.l.
Car and Cycle
“Hotham”: The Victorian Light Car Club,
which pioneered motor-car road racing with
a 100-mile spin on Phillip Island (Vic.)
last March, is going one better this year. It
is staging a 200-mile run for cars up to
2000-c.c. capacity, to be held over the same
course as the original race, though .this has
been greatly altered and improved. March
18 is the date.
* * * *
“Bargara”: Add to the first-vintage motor-
cars still in active use the I)e Dion driven
daily in Bundaberg (Q.) by Edward Parry
for 21 years. It is a one-cylinder, with
the old-style tub-body entered from the rear
and seated lengthwise. The venerable gadget
is a feature of the Burnett district. Its
owner is a veteran engineer, now consultant
at the local foundry, and he has given the
old De Dion the care of a father. It is no
freak or relic; it does all the work of Parry
and family and has never been known to
let him down or hold him up—though it does
cough a bit when tackling some of the local
pinches with a full load.
* He * * sjt
“Amateur Pro”; Still another Australian
Olympic amateur has suddenly resolved to
turn professional, this being Jack Stauden,
the N.S.W. track cyclist. He is signing up
with the management of the Canterbury
Velodrome, and should do well. Like his
fellow-trippers to the Olympiad, Stauden
entered into a bond for some hundreds under-
taking that he would not become a pro-
fessional within two years of his return from
Amsterdam. It will be interesting to see
what the Olympic authorities in Australia
are going to do in regard to their pound of
flesh.
* * St *
“Sprocket”: Two of Europe’s leading pro-
fessional wheelmen arrived in N.S.W. last
week to ride a series of races in Sydney.
Oscar Rutt, the 23-year-old son of the
Walter Rutt who was prominent in the Aus-
tralian cycling boom 20 years or so ago, is
sprint champion of Germany, and has cleaned
up most of the big German events during the
past season. The youngster first saw the
light in Mosmau, so he can claim to be a
dinkum Aussie, even if he did leave the coun-
try early in life. Brask Anderson, a Dane,
is a pace follower, and was amateur world’s
champion in 1927. He also had a fine season
before sailing.
* :!: * *
“Hayband”: Sydney’s wooden cycle-track
is not the first of its kind in Australia.
Melbourne had a saucer track over 20 years
ago; it more nearly resembled a basin —
eight stirs to the mile. Under the continual
wear of hard-blown tyres the timber com-
menced to fray, and falling riders instead of
shedding hide (as on asphalt) harvested
splinters. One night a motor-bike was let
loose. Centrifugal force looked in, and the
rider looked out —on Eternity. Machine and
man shot through the galvanised-iron fence
that surrounded the track. This, of course,
revived waning interest. But no further
fatalities occurred, and soon afterwards the
track sagged out of business.
if * if *
“Murkah”; Recently, at Boort (Vic.),
there w r ere only two starters in a heat of a
one mile bike-race. The man in front bustled
the pedals right from pistol-shot. Nearing
the bell he piled on pace like an express pick-
ing up time on a down grade. The crowd
rose: as one man, one woman and one dog,
and cheered. He flashed over the line like a
scared comet. Plugger Bill, of aforetime,
snatching victory in the last three-quarters
of an inch, never finished half as desperately.
But his solitary opponent had punctured
and withdrawn after riding 50 yards, and the
winner had ridden the most punishing finish
of the day—on his own !
* * *
“Aileron”: If the cables are to be believed,
our old friend Fritz has missed his chance
of starting that Dornier ’plane (B 2/l/’29)
in this year’s Schneider Cup. Entries
closed last week and showed that of the 10
machines entered Britain, Italy and France
had nominated three each and America one.
As far as can be judged at present, the battle
will lie between Italy and Britain. The
Italian flier Bernhardi is again a starter,
and since he holds the world’s accepted speed
record, outside the Schneider Cup, must be
taken seriously, even though his time has been
; exceeded by D’Arcy Greig, one of the British
pilots, in a recent trial over the Solent- -
* * * *
“Venturino”: Racehorses and speeding
motors have been known to toss their riders
and career madly among crowds of people ;
but a greater thrill was experienced at Russell,
Bay of Islands (M.L.), where a speed-boat,
rightly named Humbug, in turning a buoy
shot her pilot, one Strieker, overboard. At
a speed of 35 knots Humbug circled the buoy
five times, apparently intent on chopping the
head off the unfortunate pilot. Baffled in
this attempted outrage she vented her spite
on a near-by dinghy, charging it, leaping right
over it, and inflicting a nasty gash in the
face of the occupant. And she actually had
the cheek to repeat the leap. If this sort
of occurrence becomes common, it will surely
be found necessary to equip the skittish
speed-boat with a sort of dead-man’s-handle
arrangement.
Miscellaneous
“Hamer” : Another Paddon is in training
already for world’s professional sculling
honors. He is the only son of ex-champion
Jim Paddon, now making a living at Evans
Heads (N.S.W.) as a fisherman. If the
infant doesn’t get all the advice about oars-
manship, that is necessary for his develop-
ment to a champion, it won’t be dad’s fault.
* * * *
“Splash”: The extollers of Australian
swimming flappers have hushed their press
ditliyrambics since the Olympiad fiasco, and
now_ comes news calculated to deepen the
horrid silence. This is the breaking of
Yankee Sybil Bauer’s world’s record for the
150 yards back stroke by two British girls.
One, a Scot, named Ellen King, cut a
second off Sybil’s figures of lmin. 58 l-ssec.
Joyce Cooper, an English girl, did the dis-
tance in lmin. 58see. dead. It is bad enough
that an English flapper should butt in on
what was till lately acclaimed as ail Aus-
tralian preserve. That a Scottish one should
follow suit is simply stunning, in the literal
sense of the word.
»!« s}: :Jc
“Minto”: There are a score of ways of
cheating at banker if one includes longs and
shorts, strippers, mockers and other aids to
dishonesty, but eveh with an ordinary pack
of cards the sharper can make things de-
cidedly unpleasant for the mugs. A common
method employed is to pick up as many of
the high cards as possible and, making them
into a pack, to squeeze them slightly bow-
shape. A card once bent never straightens
properly, so when the next man puts down
the bank the sharper knows where the hign
cards are. More often than not one of them
is discernible at the bottom of one of the
packs. Then, of course, he wallops the cash
on.
* * * =!=
“Hamilton”: Queensland has always been
famous for the quality of the craft turned
out for open-boat sailing. The 12-foot
championship of Australia, sailed on Sydney
Harbor in Christmas week, was the latest
sailing blue ribbon to go north, C.C. 11.,
sailed by that winner of many champion-
ships J. Crouch, taking two of the three
events and running second in the third. C.C.
scored 37 points, Valkyrie, the N.S.W. cham-
pion, being runner-up with 21.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: It is a curious fact that
though the Rugby code is the oldest of recog-
nised forms of football, Union Rugby,
founded to give the game a fixed constitution,
is younger than the Association game, while
the Australian variety antedates both of
them. The Australian game was formulated
in 1867, and the Association came into being
in 1870. Two years later the Rugby Union
was born. Many of the English clubs, how-
ever, are in the anomalous position of being
older than the organisation they nowadays
acknowledge as parent. The daddy of the lot
D. R. JARDINE, the tall English amateur ,
who is regarded as the stylist of the
visiting English Eleven.
is Guy’s Hospital Club, founded in 1843.
Then comes Trinity College, Dublin, which
first saw the light in 1856. The N.S.W.
Union had its beginnings in 1574, and
the Queensland in 1882.
N * if *
“Shrewsbury”: Something unusual in the
way of international football cropped up in
England last week, when the Foreign Office
actually stepped in and forbade the pro-
posed visit of an English Soccer team to
Germany on the ground that it was not
strong enough to maintain British prestige.
It almost seems as if the F.O. had suddenly
become infected with the ghastly serious-
ness with which the cricket writers are
regarding what one of them recently de-
scribed as “the awful ordeal” of the Tests.
* * if *
“Whistle”: The All Blacks, who once
crawed sae crouse, as the Scots have it, in
the Rugby football barnyard, have come back
from their South African tour convinced that
they will have to revise their ideas of the
game. No less an expert, both in field and
council, than Mark Nicliolls has given it
as his opinion in his recently-published book
that Maoriland must recast the scrum for-
mation to which it has clung for years,
abolish the wing forward, and adopt the four
C. PIKE, the Sydney apprentice jockey,
whose mount, the heavily hacked
Fondant, succumbed by a short head
to Vallino in the Tatter sail’s Club
Cup at Randwick.
three-quarter system. It seems like sacrilege
to suggest such changes even, and they
will not come about without a struggle. Yet,
while sympathising with the Maorilanders
in their dark hour, no one who has played
against a M.L. team or watched one in action
will regret the passing of the wing forward,
a player who has cost M.L. football more
in points for penalties and reputation for
clean play than he has ever made since he
was invented.
* * Sj! *
“Hooker”: The reported secession of the
N.S.W. Rugby Union scrum half Syd Mal-
colm to the N.S.W. Rugby League has been
categorically denied by the Newcastle lad,
who has stated that he again holies to lead
Australia against the All Blacks in Sydney
next season, as he did recently in Maoriland.
It is all to the good, for, apart from his
athletic ability, the ex-Waratah is of far
too good a type to see drift into the ranks
of professional sport.
* * * *
“Spike”: Tim Banner, not so long ago
acclaimed a world’s professional champion
until Queenslander Miles dimmed his sparkle,
showed a return to sprinting form in the
Jeparit (Vic.) Sheffield. Off two yards
the ex-champion ran second in 12 2-ssec.,
which works out a fraction better than
evens for the 128 yards. F. R. Wilson, of
South Australia, won off 114 ya'rds in
12 2-ssec.
* * * &
“The Gaffer”: After much backing and
filling, it would seem that the German
middle-distance runner Dr. Peltzer will visit
Australia after all. The flying medico has
decided to tell the German authorities they
can to der' teufel go, and is coming without
permission. That will put Australia and
Maoriland in an invidious position. As
members of the International Federation,
they are bound to support their fellow-
member, Germany, in the control of athletes
under German jurisdiction. To welcome
Peltzer in the teeth of German disapproval
will amount to blacklegging on the union,
so to speak, and the I.F. may be asked to
deal with the situation.
* * * *
“Quiz”: The alleged “Olympic Scandals”
were promptly cbliterated from the public
mind by the Test matches, few remembering
that the Australian Olympic authorities were
holding an inquiry into charges made by
the manager. However, witnesses have been
examined, and the committee has now an-
nounced that it is only waiting for manager
Les Duff to substantiate his report. A
diary kept by one Horton who accompanied
the team is part of the evidence, and has
been considered by the committee. The
manager’s duties take him much into the
country 7, but he has undertaken to appear
before the committee shortly.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Adelaide”: We have a new heading for a
private financier’s” ad. of Money to Lend in
Adelaide. “Absolutely Christian,” it says.
Is this really an advantage?
* * * *
“C.Q.”: An evangelistic campaign aimed
at bringing some needed cash into the coffers
of the Methodist Church in Victoria is being
called after the English parson imported to
conduct it, and the choice of the name is, to
say the least of it, unfortunate. It is “The
Dunning Crusade” !
* * * *
“Sea Nomad”: The old City of Han Kow,
lately lying off Garden Island, Sydney, was
towed from Thursday Island by H.M.A.S.
Sydney for repairs. She was a noted tea
clipper in her day, and sailed in goodly
company with the City of Pekin and City
of Madras. Looking now more like a huge,
ungainly box than a ship, she is again to be
towed to T.I. to resume duty as a naval
coal-hulk.
* * * *
“Rigalt”: “Hamer” (B. 19/12/’2B) sug-
gests that the Manly ferries’ achievement of
carrying 50,000,000 people without a single
casualty is a world’s record for transport
organisation. The London General Omnibus
Company has carried 364,000,000 people in
one year without fatality.
* * >jc *
“C.Q.”: Those people who judge Aus-
tralia’s. enterprise by the new movie palaces
a-building in the cities should complete their
education by visiting the Hume reservoir.
You get some idea of the scope of this second
largest irrigation project in the world when
you pass through Bowna, a pretty township
on the Sydney-Melbourne highway. It is
nearly 20 miles from the reservoir, yet it
will be one of the villages to disappear.
Almost as large an area will be submerged
under water at the Hume as is submerged
under civil servants at Canberra. Altogether
75 miles of the Murray and the Mitta Mitta
will be converted into lake to regulate the
flow of the Australian Father of Waters and
open up fresh land for irrigation. Talan-
gatta is another flourishing township pre-
paring for a watery grave. The compensa-
tion which lias to be paid will be one of the
big items on a bill already more than double
the original estimate. Work was started in
1919.
* * H* *
“N.S.”: Another five years will see the
British out of the New Hebrides if the pre-
sent policy is continued. There is not enough
local native labor to work the plantations,
many of which have been run by Australians.
The French, who are the other parties to the
Condominium, have got over the difficulty by
importing Annamites and Tonkinese from
their possessions in the East. The British
forbid indenting, despite the fact that Indians
are imported into the, Fiji group, 500 miles
to the east. So the French make all the
profits, and the Britishers are on their beam-
ends. As fast as they can big French cos.
are buying up plantations forsaken by
Britishers.
* * * *
“P.X.”: London, advertisers have at last
discovered that some of their best-known
journals are more coupons than news-sheets.
Lately football competitions have been the
craze, and one small group of papers, it
is alleged, is collecting over £30,000 a week
in payment for copies which are thrown
aside as soon as the coupon is extracted. So
great is the craze that 20,000,000 football-
competition entries are posted in England
and Wales every week. One result is that
circulation figures, which a while ago -were
regarded as of great importance by big adver-
tisers, are no longer taken into account un-
less accompanied by proof of the quality
of the circulation. Some doubts of the
same sort have been plaguing big advertisers
in Australia, with the result that lately a
National Advertisers’ Association has been
projected to search, on behalf of its members,
into the value of every paper’s circulation
figures.
t'fi * ❖ ❖
“Blanda” : Though the Dutch don’t make
much of a song about their air exploits, they
have established a regular passenger and mail
service between Amsterdam and Batavia.
Five big Fokker passenger ’planes have made
the journey from Holland to Java at weekly
intervals, and each has held to schedule —12
stages, covered in 12 days. Return flights
commenced last month, and early in the New 7
Y r ear a monthly service will be running,
which will be made a weekly service as soon
as the traffic warrants it. British aero-
plane manufacturers have not pdid much
attention to passenger ’planes, but A. Y.
Roe and Co. recently obtained a license to
manufacture Fokker passenger ’planes of the
type used in the Amsterdam-Batavia service,
a fact of some significance to Australia and
other far-flung units of Empire.


*
wm
i
i
«
■
ihm
'•‘iSV
B
*«ss
I*
/
V.V;
HP
' NS
&*X*'
NOTHING so bril-
liant and revolution-
ary has yet appeared in the
field of low-priced sixes. See
it—ride in it—drive it—and
you will recognise that, in the
De Soto Six, the genius of
Chrysler surmounts price
limitations to a degree that
upsets all existing standards.
New Style
New Performance
New Elegance
New Riding Luxury
AUSTRALIAN & NEW ZEALAND
DISTRIBUTORS.
New South Wales:
Grenville Motors Ltd., Carsell House,
205-213 William St., Sydney.
Victoria:
Automobiles Proprietary Ltd., 92 Flin-
ders St., Melbourne.
Queensland:
Stradbroke Motors Ltd., Adelaide St.,
Brisbane.
South Australia:
Dominion Motors Ltd., Flinders St.,
Adelaide.
Western Australia:
Wentworth Motors Ltd., Milligan St.,
Perth.
New Zealand:
Neiv Zealand Motors Ltd., Wellington.
DE SOTO MOTOR CORPORATION (Division of Chrysler Corporation), DETROIT, MICHIGAN.
m
I
if
a.
2
life
m


Under
Royal
Warrant
FS
ToH.NL
Kiru£
George V
Vintage 1920. (
CHAMPAGNE (
MSH
mi
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Limited
SYDNEY.
cmampachc
'^arieslleidsitffc
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrerits—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
IF YOU SUFFER FROM
ANAEMIA
then you have not used
Se#=£
BECAUSE KARNA VITA DEFINITELY CONQUERS ANAEMIA.
Prescribed by foremost Doctors; used by all
leading Hospitals for all forms of anaemia.
Send to-day for free literature.
From all chemists, 8/- 'per 4oz. jar (2-4 weeks’ supply), or
direct from us at 8/9 post free if not obtainable locally.
KARNA VITA COMPANY, 226 a George Street, Sydney.
03,
7hp cen/re o/ C/uPens/onc/s
' c/r 's/rngurs/tea/ Soc/o/ Life.
WM
RDTCP
BRISBANE
DF
Magnificent B a 11-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
HAF HEEL
SILK HOSIERY
Sydney danced the Old Year out, and
maybe that was why the homeward-bound
between eleven and midnight voted it the
quietest New Year’s eve in memory. If they
had slid open the doors of the Wentworth,
or looked in at the Ambassadors, the Palais
Royal, the Automobile Club or the Rose Bay
Golf Club, dancing thousands, exuberant and
jazz-capped, would have flat-Cliarlestoned in
a mad kaleidoscope of color across the
vision.
At the Wentworth a braw Highlander
swept around the room, kilts awliirl, cairn-
gorm glittering and sporran waggling even
as the beard of old Father Time, who, hour-
glass in hand, took the stage a few minutes
before midnight. With him were 12 witches,
watching—or so it seemed—the dead hopes
and vanished dreams of 1928 going up in
smoke. Then sounded midnight, and sud-
denly the 12 witches resolved themselves into
12 white-and-silver months glittering with
promise, starry with hope. They danced
happily about the ballrooom, and as they
vanished men and women rose from their
tables and plunged once more into the night’s
revels.
The Ambassadors was packed to its Palm
Court. Here Percy Stewart Dawson had to
eat his birthday cake surrounded by his
friends. It was lighted by four candles,
one for each decade the nice-mannered man
has lived. His attractive wife helped him
dispense the combined New Year and birth-
day hospitality. The stairway and ballroom
bloomed with holly white with hoar frost and
icicle-festooned, while the tables glowed with
deep-bosomed roses, agapantlius, gladioli and
hydrangea. A piper, followed by his High-
land lads and lasses, swept into the gather-
ing with much the air of a dashing Lochin-
var. One table attracted all eyes. It was a
bank of dark red roses on which the figures
1928-29 were picked out in frangipanni.
From an umbrella woven of pink and white
flowers streamed a fragrant trail of good
washes to each guest’s place.
On New Year’s Day those who didn’t go
to the beaches, the Mountains (Katoomba
was thronged), the Coast or the
Iliolan’ Gathering went to Randwick. This
wms a Tattersall’s Club meeting, and in spite
of the great human tide of knowledge brought
to the attack of their sandbag fortifications,
this Letter was relieved to learn from the
following day’s papers that “the books didn’t
suffer.” Yet if the world had received only
one-quarter of the information imparted to
the Letter by the butcher, the iceman and a
friendly tramguard half the bookies in Rand-
wick would be out of business.
And that remark reminded the Girl in
the Flat Opposite about the story told her
by a friend at Randwick on New Year’s
Day. The friend, who is an M.A., is just
married, and her husband is a rising young
barrister. Until he has quite risen they
live in a cottage in Kensington, and the wife
has become an M.A.W. (Maid of All Work).
They are at some pains not to encourage too
much friendliness in the neighbors, and she
does her best to congeal the iceman and to
stop the baker from loafing on the back door-
step—the baker especially is of a sociable
and chatty disposition. Christmas week
Mrs. Suburbia went to the ponies and
dropped most of the housekeeping money
down the tote. In between losses she saw
her baker, who signalled to her joyously,
then urgently, over the heads of the throng.
Each time she slipped her sunshade sideways
and pretended not to see him. The following
afternoon, when he called he greeted her:
“Oh, Mrs. Suburbia, I seen you yesterday at
the ponies, but I couldn’t catch your eye. I
wanted to tell you to back a pony o’ mine.
Never mind, I put a quid on for you, and
you’re six quid to the good.” When her
husband came home he found her head still
in the ice-chest.
New Year’s honors in the diaphanous-
draped stands went to Elizabeth Knox, in
grass-greens and red ; to Mrs. Norman Lowe,
an ivory background for bright flower
borders; to Mrs. Ellis Fielding Jones, who
came in cool yellow and white; and to
a blonde unknown, whose black georgettes
had a yoke of fine lace shaped like an old-
time bertlie. Its sleeves, full above the
elbow, ended in long, tight cuffs of lace
shaped over the hands, their final peak reach-
ing to the knuckles.
On the first day of 1929, up in the sleet-
scarred, snow-powdered glens of bonny Scot-
land, braw lads and lassies made their
way, their caps bent to the gale, their plaids
and kilts and cairngorms and dirks proudly
defying the cold blast of winter. Out on
the Sydney Showground, under a burning
sun and a speckless sky, young Roderick
Dhus, Lochinvars and Macduffs defied the
temperature with the self-same kilts, plaidies,
sporrans, cairngorms and bagpipes. Sonsy
Flora Macdonalds added an entire frontis-
piece of medals gained for their Highland
flings, sword dances and Scotch reels. The
baubles glittered like a lialf-coat of mail, and
their clanking was visible, if not audible,
to the onlookers in the stands. The littlest
ones brought their dollies—all dressed up as
Highlanders, too. Strong men tossed the
caber and put the stone; and over all the
pipes skirled and triumphed like the winds
in the mountain fastnesses above Ballach-
hulisli.
To honor St. John of Jerusalem through
his ambassadors to Australia, the Kelso
Kings staged a reception which was the
social event of last week. Quambi, the old
Woollahra home, was thrown wide, and by
nine o’clock the rooms, the verandahs and tin 1
gardens knew all about closer settlement. On
the verandah music was decanted from a
string band and whispered again in the
branches of tall trees brought from many
lands by the Darleys, who planted the garden.
In the beautifully panelled dining-room,
famous for its Sunday lunch parties, Sir
John Prescott Ilewett and his tall daughter
Mrs. St. John Atkinson were the guests at
a dinner before the reception. To this were
bidden the Hugh Denisons, General and Mrs.
Fames, and the popular Morgan Bakers of
the King’s School. The rich warmth of
zinnias struck the proper note with the
polished woodwork; and great bowls of the
same flowers ornamented the square entrance
hall.
Mrs. Kelso King wore black lace, served
with pearls, and Olive Kelso King mixed
pink georgette and rhinestones and friend-
liness in her inimitable way. Hazel Kelso
King brought ecru laces to the stern job of
entertaining.
Mrs. Atkinson, whose brown head rose
above every other woman’s head, caught the
eye with her rose-pink chiffons made with
floating shoulder draperies. Ropes of pearls
and diamond-ornaments helped the flashlight.
Another tall lady who won favor in many
eyes was Mrs. James Ilorsburgh, wife of
the Commissioner of the Northern Territory.
Her sky-blue chiffons were starry with
diamente: and the same heavenly blues were
worn by Mrs. A. H. Whittingham, of Bris-
bane. Elizabeth Knox was outstanding with
her Italian-looking head, and the Chief Jus-
tice’s lady was one of the jolliest at the
party. Alfred Meeks and his lady were there,
and Mrs. Gordon Wesche wore floating green
georgettes. Mrs. Leo Quick and Mrs. Mur-
ray Will were amid the night’s decorative
effects. Archgaiters Wright and his lady
added the episcopal note, and the Town
Clerk Laytons and handsome Ruth Beale
talked of old Colonial furniture almost with
reverence.
The just-established Fellowship of Aus-
tralian Writers has broken new ground in
that it has a poetess for its secretary. She
is Marjorie Quinn, niece of Rod and
daughter of
the late P. E.,
who was a poet
too as well as
secretary to
N.S.W.’s first
Trade Com-
missioner in
th e U. S. A.
Perhaps it was
early associa-
tion with the
great dollar
factory that
impressed upon
her the truth
of the Glasgow
proverb that a
penny saved is
tuppence won.
At any rate,
with a fore-
sight and a
canniness not
often given to
those who juggle with strophe and trOchee,
this new secretary has secured a rent-free
meeting place for the fellows. Emboldened
by an empty treasury, she had an interview
with the heads, and the result is the use of
a room in the Education Department’s head-
quarters. The charm of Marjorie’s verse is
well known to Bulletin and Mirror
readers. The photograph is by May Moore.
Black satin and black ring-velvet are tre-
mendously popular, says a girl just back
from London, and she tells of a skirt of
heavy, closely-kilted black satin. With this
was worn a sleeveless jumper of leaf-green
panne, embroidered about the hips with
silver thread on silver tissue. Over the
jumper goes a silver-tissue coat of the bridge
variety worked stiff with green and silver
threads. She has brought an afternoon frock
of black georgette. This has closely-kilted
flounces merging into a longer and deeper
curve toward the back, which is quite eight
inches longer than the front of the skirt.
The dress is reclaimed from the sombre by
a shoulder scarf, from which hang long tas-
sels of silver, gold and coral beads dripping
from large silver cups. Three bands of the
same gay beads form a bracelet finish at
the wrists of the sleeves.
Red frocks and long bead necklets, the
brighter the better, are again to be with us;
also gold and silver filigree chains to which
anchors and sinkers in the form of bright
yellow, red or blue enamel will be attached.
The newest evening frocks are cut in one
piece. Skirts are draped at the back; waists
are higher. Picture frocks have had their
day; the plump figure is again not seen in
the land; and any flowers. worn must be
straight from Nature.
Here’s a
sturdy 13-year-
ol d daughter
of the surf.
She is dimpled
Je a n Cocks,
the child swim-
mer who first
attracted the
notice of ath-
letes by her
a s t o nishing
performan c e s
in the water as
a 10-year-old.
Since then she
has gone from,
one fast time
to another, un-
til on Satur-
day night she
s warn 150
yards in lmin.
46 2-ssec., an
Australian re-
cord for women and a world’s best for a
girl of 13. Photograph from Broughton
Ward.
In Sydney, holiday-making—poetess Marie
E. J. Pitt, who comes from Melbourne and
intends writing a few of her beautiful songs
with the Harbor for a sapphire on her right
hand ; and Winifred Moore, of the Brisbane
Courier. Winifred motored to* Sydney with
Professor Lowson and his wife, and every
night on the way down they slept under the
stars.
But did you see Dee Why and Narrabeen
during the holidays? In the grassy valley
in the sands between Bong Beef and the
Lagoon there were pitched not hundreds but
thousands of tents. And not all tents either.
There were scores of motor-lorries and goods
trucks, turned into two-storeyed villas —you
slept either on them or under them. If you
were fastidious you brought two or three
empty chaff-bags, slit them up and hung
them somewhere, and thus secured all the
privacy you wanted. But nobody seemed to
want any worth mentioning. Most, of course,
were family parties, and the less you and the
kids wore the better dressed you were. And
the stately black swans, on Dee Why Lake
by the hundred, arched their proud necks and
wondered what it was all about.
Sanitation? Now, what did you want to
mention that for?
Norman Lindsay, though he can never
grow old, is at least growing older. He has
acquired -.a second daughter-in-law—Loma
uautour she was before she became Mrs. Ray
Lindsay. Ray, who is following in father’s
footsteps, won’t have to go out of the home-
circle for criticism. Loma knows much about
line and color and composition, and is noted
for her beautiful embroideries. She is some-
thing of an exquisite, too, and no matter
what rush of committee meetings engulfed
her (she is a fervent Younger Setter) she
always turned up in shining radiance.
Norman, by the way, has been looking on
sympathetically at The Bulletin’s effort to
put the fiction-writers of Australia on a
better wicket: he that the artists
have improved their position infinitely more
than the authors haye done, and he has been
wondering how he could give the brethren of
that branch of Culture a hand. An idea which
suggested itself was that, though he loathes
pen-work nowadays, he might illustrate that
story in The Bulletin’s Competition which
most appealed to him; and he was reading
with joy “The Quartermaster” (formerly
called “A House is Built”) by Flora Elder-
shaw and Marjorie Barnard, when his doctor
at Springwood ordered him to lie still again
for at least three months. Norman’s health
had been very precarious all last year. But
hope of the master-pen illustrating the two
Sydney women’s master-story has not yet
been abandoned, though there will of course
be delay. It will probably follow “A Rogue
in Amber” through The Bulletin.
A last week’s bride from Maroubra set out
for her future home in Brisbane by way of
St. James’s. She was Ethel Carroll, and from
the coolness of sand georgette, flower-em-
broidered and pin-tucked, she made the replies
that turned her where she stood into Mrs.
Joseph Menogue. Pearls and orchids and
a silk straw hat were notable items in her
attire. Sister Doris Carroll ’maided in apri-
'cot georgettes. Toasts at the Ambassadors.
!f A quiet wedding of the week was the link-
ing up of Mrs. Vera Brunker, formerly of
Binda, who became Mrs. A. Kable, of Crook-
well, in St. Stephen’s, the matron of honor’s
pale gold georgettes contrasting happily -with
the bride’s pale-pink laces.
The line about the pearl above price must
have been in the mind of the architect who
designed the wedding garment worn by
Brenda Cohen when she gave the usual pro-
mise to Frank Silverman in the Synagogue
last week. It was of white georgette and
was thickly crusted with pearl and crystal,
and ropes of pearls hung from the waist to
the hem. A train that gave dignity was of
Brussels lace, and had been worn by the
bride’s mother at her wedding. Mrs. Louis
Joachim, a sister, was matron of honor in
shimmering pink and silver. Marion Fraser,
another attendant, wore primrose georgettes,
and a small trainbearcr in frills of pink and
lilac tulle added still a further bit of color.
Rabbi Cohen tied the knot, and the Macca-
bean Ilall housed the reception, over which
the bride’s parents, the S. Cohens of Cen-
tennial Park, presided.
Jock Mackay, a small boy in kilts, carrying
a train of tulle which looked like a fragile
heap of pink and white heather, walked
proudly up the aisle of the kirk at Mosman
on Saturday night. The bride at the other
end of the train was Betty Luther, a
daughter of the late Dr. Guy Luther, of
Bundaberg, and her frock, built in the 1830
mode, was of white satin and tulle. The
bridegroom was J. li. Farquhar, also one
time of Bundaberg, now of Sydney. Padre
McDonald tied the knot, while three maids
and two flower girls in spreading taffetas of
rose and blue and mauve made a pictorial
group about the altar. Later the bride’s
mother, Mrs. Witham, entertained at the
Wentworth.
The white-ducked striplings aboard the
Juan Sebastian de Elcano are probably as
efficient if not so picturesque as their fore-
bears who won to all the seas of all the
world. The youngsters are pervasive, too —
found their way even to Randwiek. A group
of them on the lawn by the band, their olive
skin thrown into relief by their white
uniforms and flashing teeth, found much to be
amused at in our national sport. One youth
was taken by a Sydney family out Windsor
way. With bated breath the flapper of the
household pointed out an old Colonial cottage.
“It’s terribly old,” she impressed him—
“nearly a hundred years!” The son of Spain
laughed merrily as at some gay jest. He hails
from Barcelona, that ancient city of Spain
which had its beginnings in the third century-
before Christ and knew the rule of Romans,
Moors and Franks.
The biggest welcome-home party planned
for the week-end at the Australia had to
be postponed. The Clive Evatts were re-
turning from a year’s honeymoon spent
travelling the world over. But when they
reached the Heads a launch met their
steamer, and conveyed a very sick Mrs. Clive
to a waiting car, which bore her to St. Luke’s
Hospital. Rheumatic fever and ’flu picked
up, it is thought, in Honolulu, caused the
collapse. Before her marriage to the young
barrister —-a brother of the doctor—Mrs.
Evatt was one of the Andreas girls.
The Country Women’s Association moves
with the times. Its new rooms are in the new
Savings Bank Building and are furnished in
grass greens and browns —a before-and-after-
the-drought suggestion.
“A.G.M.’s” note from London:—
Norman D’Arcy, grandson of the late W. K.
D’Arey, of Mount Morgan, is engaged to Lady Peggy
Hay, sister of the Earl of Kinnoull and youngest
daughter of the late peer. Norman is the son of
Frank D’Arey; his mother, since her widowhood, has
lived much on the Continent. Lady Peggy’s brother
is well known among the Bright Young People.
He married a daughter of Mrs. Merrick, “queen of
the night clubs,” who was lately released from Hollo-
way after serving a sentence of six months for the
illegal sale of strong drink.
Signs of the times? Many once prosperous night
clubs are putting up the shutters. Musical shows
are eliminating jazz, and slowly but steadily the
vogue of entertainments in the home is taking the
place of feasting in restaurants. More than half
of the so-called supper clubs have gone out of
existence, and some of the survivors which have
floor accommodation for 2000 dancers are now grati-
fied when they can snare 200. The gay doings
which used to be extended until nearly dawn, when
a hilarious breakfast was the order of the hour,
are a thing of the past, and it is difficult to keep
up a semblance of jollity much after midnight.
Alfred Kalisch, the veteran London critic, and
J. A. Forsyth, the piano maker, rich and enthusiastic,
were the hosts at a Music Club reception in the
Mayfair Hotel on November 24, with Florence
Austral as the guest of honor. The club is now one
of the largest in London, and its growing popularity
is mainly due to the energy of chairman Kalisch
and honorary secretary Forsyth. Crowds of notable
musicians attended, and Austral, always generous,
sang several times to the delight of the guests.
Those who heard her for the first time in Brunn-
hildo’s “Call” were startled by the dramatic vehem-
ence which her enormous voice makes possible in
this great number. John Amadio’s playing was as
fine as ever.


, v< ':
...ft. * <
....., *•* c-Jlll
-IVS ..■-.!... ■;
; •■■
m
,s
<
: '
r ■
PL
: ■■■•■• ■
X
•w »
c An Honoured Place
THE Beale Player-Piano not only welcomes the most
searching inspection. It definitely challenges compari-
son, whether in modern artistry of design, practical sturdi-
ness of construction, excellence of both material and
craftsmanship, or in the enduring rich resonance of tone.
Above all, and in spite of the low price for which the Beale is sold, it
challenges comparison 'with the very highest-priced instruments . It was built to
compete with these, and these only—and it has done so with such trium-
phant success that the Beale nowadays has an honoured place in many of
our most luxurious homes.
BEALE 6 COMPANY
Showrooms
LIMITED
Head Office and Factories 1
j George Street, Sydney
SD
41-47 Trafalgar St., Annandafe,
Branches: New South Wales: Newcastle,
Wollongong, L,ismore, Bathurst, Tamworth,
and Maples at Wagga and Albury.
Victoria: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs.
Tasmania: Maples, Hobart and Launceston.
South Australia: Saver/s Pianos Limited,
Adelaide.
Western Australia: Thomson’s Limited.
Queensland: G. J. Grice Limited, Brisbane,
Toowoomba, Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Mackay, Townsville and Cairns.
32.fp.28


ar ;
FOR MARKING LINEN
. Saves a
“mix up”
in the
wash
[•Mil
nAMEs
Any name
woven
in fast
colors
A Few Stitches and they’re on”
K.S.Talbotn
Actual Size Style No. 2
PRICES
12 dot,
Sold by all leading Drapers.
Write for Pattern Sheet to
J. & J. CASH Pty. Ltd.
85 Cubitt Street, Richmond,
Melbourne.
S6e WENTWORTH
A Hotel of ‘Distinction
To which men and women of Distinction the world over
return time after time. Built on historic Church Hill, it
has itself become of almost historic interest. Here, in the
heat of summer is the cool and restful comfort that results
from scientific ventilation, and in winter cold winds are
forgotten in its centrally heated atmosphere. Here, too,
are a perfect cuisine, a spacious lounge and efficient
service—service so graciously given that it has earned
for the Hotel in Australia and Overseas the title of
The friendly Wentworth
CABLE ADDRESS: MUM. TELEPHONE: 8W136L
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
The city has been the scene of a daily
general pilgrimage of folk equipped with
cushions, rugs and suitcases. They were
bound, of course, for the M.C.G., where the
third Test match was being played. We
are proud of the fact that our cricket arena
can accommodate twice as big a crowd as
Lord’s or any other of London’s famous
sports grounds. Enthusiasts lined up, early
at the turnstiles each day. At half-past ten
in the morning every seat was occupied and
an hour later it was a case of “standing
room only.” Many made a family picnic of
it and dragged their small children along.
The only interest the kiddies exhibited was
in the passings-by of the ice-cream and lolly-
sellers, and their mothers didn’t seem to be
getting much of a thrill out of the game
either.
Fortunately, the weather was fair, though
the temperature was oppressive at times.
Regular attenders were the G.-G. and Lady
Stonehaven; Sir Alexander Flore-Ruthven,
Governor of South Australia, who was stay-
ing at Government House; Lady Hillingdon,
and the Priministerial Bruces.
The grand finale of the Test match on
Saturday afternoon was witnessed by the,
G.-G. and Lady Stonehaven, who had their
two small daughters with them, and Lady
Hillingdon and her daughter, Hon. Penelope
Mills. The trio of children revelled in ice-
creams. Irvine, C.J., and his lady, and Arch-
bishop Lees and his wife were amid the special
guests. The English captain’s wife, mother and
father, Mrs. Jack Hobbs and sundry other
English folk connected with the game were
able to enjoy their side’s victory in comfort,
for the weather was cool, and there was no
crushing. One of the onlookers all day and
every day was Mrs. Horne, widow of Dr.
George Horne, who, though past her 80th
milestone, showed a keener interest in and
knowledge of the game" than many of the
present generation. At the after-celebration
Captain Chapman’s speech made a new
record for brevity: “Thank God it’s over!”
The first V.R.C. meeting of the year fell
on a swelteringly oppressive day, and most
of the sex at Flemington felt too limp to
bother much about what any old horse
did. Dressing was mostly of the filmy
order, in lace, georgette and patterned chif-
fons. Among those in the committee ladies’
box were Mrs. Alan Currie, in ninon lightly
trailed in grey and blue design and a beige
colored baku hat; Marie Greene, whose all-
over figured gown blended tones of fawn,
brown and red, topped by a ballibuntal hat
of wine hue; Mrs. R. Greene; Mrs. J. S.
Feehan, in draperies of biscuit georgette
and harmonising millinery; Mrs Rupert
Downes, whose- crepe-de-Chine frock was
scattered with a cherry pattern in fawn and
red: and Mrs. A. V. Kewney. Judge Wil-
liams’s wife, who wore a crimson hat with
her black and white raiment, introduced to
our famous course the Hon. Mrs. Foster,
an English visitor. Ainslie Williams featured
tucks on a bottle-green frock. Mrs. Percy
Blaekbowen, who was accompanied by Mrs.
Warrington Rogers, displayed sported ap-
parel in ecru and nigger brown, with hat of
twine color. Navy-blue georgette with scroll
effects in fine military braid was Mrs. Rogers
Thomson’s choice, and her daughter Kathleen
looked cool in mole-toned georgette. Wilma
Clarke was charming in a blue and green
chiffon gown of varying hem line, and a pale
green hat; Alison Moule presented a study
in red and white; and Mrs. Desmond Moor'*,
a recent bride, allied a tuscan hat to a del-
phinium blue gown. Moira Bryans, just
back from England, unfurled a red parasol
to cheer a black turnout. Defence Minister
Glasgow and his lady watched the racing.
Now the holidays are over our biggest rag-
shops have come out in an eruption of sale
signs, and there are excellent bargains to
be secured in frocks. The weather having
been continuously cool the turnover in sum-
mer attire has been very small, and now
room must be made for autumn shipments.
Just the dress needed in smart jumper or
other mode can now be obtained at less than
half the price ticketed a few days earlier.
One of our most exclusive emporiums is mak-
ing a feature of white goods, and quanti-
ties of exquisite French embroidered lin-
gerie are being offered at reduced prices.
Left-over Christmas gifts are nearly given
away.
“Other Men’s Wives,” at the Theatre
Royal, reintroduces Margaret Bannerman in
a stage atmosphere into which she fits most
charmingly. It isn’t as naughty a comedy as
the name might suggest, though Miss Banner-
man does appear in pyjamas—sky-blue satin
affairs, the trousers of which are decorated
with tiny silver buttons from ankle to knee. In-
tensely feminine is her biscuit lace frock, with
a shimmer of flesh pink beneath, and her last-
act array, a frilled gown of magenta hue
spotted in white with a dash of emerald
green similarly speckled, is topped by vivid
green millinery of casque mode in lace design.
Her shoes are of the same green. .Lily
Titheradge, who has been long enough off
the professional stage to be new to many
theatregoers, sheds an ensemble suit bf
powder blue and beige felt hat to assume
the trim black uniform worn for a while by
the leading lady when masquerading as a
maid.
Margaret Bannerman and her husband,
Anthony Prinsep, gave an after-the-show
party at the Windsor, where they are resid-
ing. The lovely leading lady’s looks and
figure were set off by a gown of black velvet.
Guests were mostly theatrical folk, with a
few non-professional friends. The star turn
was a little sketch staged by Miss Banner-
man and Herbert Mundin, of the “Desert
Song” co.
“Scandal,” which is the present offering of
the Leon Gordon co., at the Comedy, is
enlivened by some effective dressing. May
Collins wears riding kit that combines khaki
breeches, tan coat, a beige shirt with sugges-
tion of pink, and a purple tie. An evening
gown has tulle frills blending from white
to rose, suspended from a tight white satin
bodice. This is worn with an unusually
fashioned cape-wrap of gold net, much
embroidered. Marie Eaton sports a silver-
grey georgette gown topped by a Lido-blue
toque. Ideas for opera-coats and such are
afforded in examples worn by Miss Eaton
and Marion Marcus Clarke.
The Queen Victoria Hospital for Women
received a very seasonable gift in the shape
of an up-to-date refrigerating plant, which
cost the Henry Berry fund £5OO. A formal
presentation was made the other day by
Mrs. Percy Berry, in the unavoidable absence
of Mrs. Henry. Berry, widow of the founder
of the fund, which was established to help
religious, educational and charitable causes.
The Essendon Ladies’ Benevolent Society
entertained Mrs. H. Schwieger, who leaves
with her husband, the secretary of the R.A.S.,
this week on an oversea tour, at a farewell
tea-drinking at the home of Mrs. T. Lear-
month, Moonee Ponds. The members handed
over a gift useful for the voyage.
Lalah Burke’s mother didn’t come to Aus-
tralia to see her daughter married, it being
a far cry from Oxford, where she has settled
since the death of her husband, G. L. Burke,
of St. Kilda. Miss Burke, who was matron
of the Janet Clarke Hall at Trinity College,
was loaded with many gifts and tons of good
wishes by students. Her bridegroom was
Frederick Batchelder, of Sydney, and the
knot was tied at St. James’s in the Harbor
City.
Looking at you from this window is Mrs.
D. J. Hoban, organiser of the Loreto Abbey
Players’ performance of “The Chinese
Lantern.” A
member of the
early Reper-
tory Society
under Gregan
McMahon, she
has directed
more than one
stage perform-
ance by ex-
students of her
Alma Mater.
Her other in-
terests include
the Brighton
Auxiliary of
St. Vincent’s
Hospital, of
which she is
ho n. treas.,
and the Eng-
lish - Speaking
Union. Her
husband, who
saw service in
the Great War, was given charge of the
Macleod Repatriation Sanatorium on his
return. After an unsuccessful political
flutter he has devoted himself once more to
business life. Jack Cato made the picture.
The marriage of Dorothy Edith, elder
twin-daughter of Major-General Bruche, of
Victoria Barracks, Melbourne, and Mrs. J.
11. Bruche, with Captain William Aird
Smith was duly celebrated in India on
December 22. The bride had her mother
and sister to stage-manage ceremony and
after-celebration.
Mrs. Tony Hordern was one of those in-
vited to the. Chapel Royal, Savoy, when
Lady Loughborough, once Sheila Chisholm,
made her second matrimonial plunge—with
Baronet John Milbanke. Captain Con Ben-
son, D. 5.0., lent his arm to the bride, who
was clad in beige lace, her felt hat and fox
furs being of the same hue. Ralph Milbanke
stood by his brother. Lord and Lady Den-
man were amongst the guests.
Capt. R. G. Breadmore, of the Army Service
Corps, before sailing back to duty in India,
announced his engagement to Mrs. George
Kay's titian-haired daughter Eld, and many
parties® have been given to celebrate the
event. The pair met on the liner in which
the Kays travelled to England. The success-
ful suitor plans to return on furlough at the
end of the year to claim liis bride. Miss
Kay and her mother are spending a holiday
in the Apple Isle.
The unshingled locks portrayed here by
Vandyck belong to Romola Ilanstein, who,
after her trip abroad following a lengthy
illness, is returning to the footlights, again
under the
.T.C.W. ba n-
ne r. During
the holiday
season her so-
prano voice
was heard at
the St. Kilda
Palais in the
prologue
“Tulip Time
in Happy Hol-
land.” Miss
Ilanstein, who
is a daughter
of the late
Prof. E. 11.
Ilanstein, a
talented musi-
cian, who was
conductor o f
the Vic. Oper-
atic Society,
has had con-
siderable suc-
cess on tour as lead in “Wildflower” and
ether musical plays.
Almost the first thing that Jocelyn, daugh-
ter of the E. W. Outhwaites, of Yarrook,
Toorak, did on stepping ashore after a
European tour, was to smile her consent to
Gibson, youngest son of the J. A. Shaws, of
Tandara. The pair were great friends be-
fore her going, and absence, for once in a
way, has done what the proverb promises.
Congratulations are being offered to Edna
Tabart and Alfred Ernest Warburton, whose
matrimonial intentions have been announced.
She is the very good-looking elder, daughter
of the V.A.T.C. secretary, T. A. Tabart, and
Mrs. Tabart of Malvern, and the young man
is the youngest son of A. E. Warburton of
Auburn.
Professor C. A. Scutt and his wife and
family left the other day for a lengthy holi-
day in Europe. The Prof., who holds tin 1
Chair of Classical Philology at our Uni.,
is a master of the modern Greek tongue.
When the Great War broke out he was at
the British School in Greece, and was called
to fill an important military post on account
of his knowledge of the language. He in-
tends to spend much of his vacation in the
land of the Hellenes. Dr. J. C. V. Behan,
of Trinity College, and Mr. and Mrs. Addi-
son are other Uni. folk who are planning to
take long vacations abroad.
Prof. Giblin, of the Speck’s Uni., comes
across from the Apple Isle shortly to fill the
Ritchie Chair of Economics at our shop.
Mrs. George Chirnside, after a long
sojourn in England, has rejoined her hus-
band on his Lilydale squattage, he having
returned from overseas a few months earlier.
A celebrated beauty in her youth, Mrs. Chirn-
side, with her slim lines and white coiffure,
is still very easy to look at.
The widow of W. J. T. Clarke is the latest
to join the select coterie who possess holiday
homes at Macedon. She has lately acquired
Noel, the residence of Mrs. G. Stoving.
Mrs. M. J. D. Page intends moving back
to Sydney during the week, the Harbor city
being more accessible to Canberra. Her
husband is one of the Government officials
recently transferred to the Federal capital.
At the New Year race meeting at Fleming-
ton Mrs. Page and Madeleine said farewell
to many friends made during their five
years’ residence here.
Mr. ar.d Mrs. D. J. Hoban hied them to
Mallacoota for the vacation. Mrs. Hoban,
who plays a leading role in the Loreto Abbey
Players’ Club, announces that the first public
appearance of this band of amateur mum-
mers—ex-students of the Loreto Convent —
in Laurence Housman’s play, “The Chinese
Lantern,” resulted in a profit of over £ll2.
The cheque served as' a substantial Christ-
mas box for the Loreto Free Kindergarten.
Both heads and students of the Girls’ C.
of E. Grammar School parted regretfully
with Miss D. L. Ross, who for the last six
years has conducted the botany classes, be-
sides being house-mistress of St. Cecelia.
The lady is embarking on an extended tour
abroad, going first to England, where a Euro-
pean itinerary will be planned. On her
return she will take up the position of super-
visor of the Associated Teachers’ Training
Institute.
Valentine Williams, the author of “Crouch-
ing Beasts,” now thrilling the reading public,
and many other popular novels, has a link
with this land, his wife being Alice Craw-
ford, a handsome Bendigo lass, who scored
a success on the London stage before marry-
ing. Her sister, Mrs. Victor Leggo, is one
of our amateur sporting champions. Mr. and
Mrs. Williams entertain many Australian
visitors in their London home.
The Gilbert Lodges have settled down in
a house at Ennismore Gardens, London, for-
merly part of Lord Ampthill’s property and
famous for its Tudor panelling and antique
furnishings. They are looking forward to a
happy time, there being plenty of Australian
friends in the metropolis.
Master of the Mint W. M. Robins and liis
decorative wife set out this week on a holi-
day tour of Maoriland, which will occupy
a couple of months.
The oversea Christmas mail brought nows
that the Jimmy Dyers have deserted London
for the winter and l’eturned to their old love,
Italy, making Rome their headquarters.
Mi's. E. 11. Cooper, of Dalgety, St. Kilda,
was a passenger by the Sierra for the United
States, whence she will take ship to England
and the European Continent. Many fare-
well tea-drinkings were given in her honor.
The R.A.S. secretary, Henry Schwieger,
starts off on a ’busman’s holiday in the
Aorangi to-morrow. He means to find
out how they run agricultural shows in
Canada, U.S.A. and England. Mrs.
Schwieger, who knows almost as much about
the business as her husband, will cast, her
trained eye over the women’s work sections.
She has long had charge of this department at
our annual September gatherings.
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Spry, with their two
small boys, set out for England by the Orford,
and expect to be away for about a year. Mrs.
Spry, who is professionally known as Violet
Ewart, is a first-class pianist, and her hus-
band is also a clever performer. They sud-
denly realised that they wanted to hear some
music of the London standard, so packed dp
their clothes and set off with less than a
week’s preparation. They intend placing
the family at a boarding-school abroad, after
which they will give their ears a treat.
Isobel Elva Carter, a student of the Uni.
Con., has just won the Clarke Scholarship,
which entitles her to three years’ free tuition
at the Royal College of Music, London.
Miss Carter is well known as an accom-
plished pianist, and has played with the Uni.
symphony orclmstra. There is an age-limit
for pianoforte pupils, and Miss Carter was
unable to enter for this instrument, but
being also a mistress of the clarinet, in which
section a couple of years’ grace is allowed,
she took her little pipe before the judges
and came out victorious.
May Broderick, who off the concert plat-
form is Mrs. Cecil Parkes, has been
appointed pianist of the Comedy Theatre in
succession to the late Benno Scherek, and
has taken up her duties. Her violinist hus-
band is the leader of the orchestra.
The W. Mortills are setting out on a
lengthy overseas’ jaunt about the middle
of the month. Leaving by the Narkunda,
they. will give Egypt a couple of months,
and then embark on an extensive motor tour
of Europe.
Announced the other day was the engage-
ment of pretty Ysolde Buesst to Lindsey,
son of the B. W. J. Plants, of Elsternwick.
Miss; Buesst, who has resided most of her
life with her grandmother, Madame H. V.
Buesst, Williams-road, Toorak, is- the eldest
daughter by his late first wife of Prof.
Aylmer Buesst, who has made a name as a
conductor in London, and lately paid a fleet-
ing visit to Melbourne to see his relatives.
The family is closely connected with the
musical history of this State, Madame
Buesst, until a comfortable inheritance came
her way, being a well-known teacher of the
piano.
The invasion of Riverina residents, usual
at this time of the year, is in full swing.
Amongst the invaders are the Douglas Boyds,
who have taken the Brandons’ old Brighton
home for the summer. Their projected Euro-
pean tour has been again postponed owing
to the continued ill-health of their young
daughter.
The Collins-street Kirk opened its doors
at sundown for Helen Mary, elder daughter
of the Robert Davidsons, of Campsie, Ivan-
hoe, who exchanged vows with George Nelson
Raymond. The tall bride wore satin girdled
with pearls, and a Limerick-lace veil fell
into a billow of train. The bridegroom’s
sister Maud and the bride’s sister Bessie
’maided in frocks of rose georgette and crin.
hats trimmed with velvet roses.
Before Mrs. Wordsworth James took train
back to Sydney Mrs. Brian Hooker spread
teacloths in her Toorak home, and good-byes
were voiced to the tinkle of china. The lady
having a large circle of friends here, there
was a fine muster despite the exodus to hill
and seashore. Mrs. Charley Campbell,
Frank Begg’s wife and Mrs. Arthur Giblin
and daughter Mary were amongst the many
guests.


Safety
in tHe palm
of your Hand
Feel how this tread grips
when you press it down
t
/
X
'/
\
X
s'
/
/
FOR safety in a tyre you need
positive gripping power in
the tread of a tyre.
There is a very simple test by
which you can measure the
extra gripping power in the
famous All-Weather - Tread.
The palm of your hand will
tell you.
Take an All-Weather Tread
Tyre just as it stands on
your Goodyear dealer’s floor—
unwrapped, uninflated.
Press down on its treaded
surface with the palm of your
hand.
Feel the responding grip and
pinch of those deep, thick,
sharp-edged diamond blocks!
In exactly the same way the
All-Weather T read grips
and holds the road surface.
Eliminates skidding and side-
slip. Transmits full power.
Steers easily, steers straightly.
Rides safely!
The result is you get surer, safer,
swifter, easier riding when you
fit Goodyear Tyres made
with the famous All-Weather
Tread.
5^


thing
every
mornin
Ml mm
„ “"“''l
m
:
;
v\
V’
■
mm
■I
■
t
ecu
For generations the practice of taking
Eno’s “Fruit Salt” first thing every morn-
ing has been the golden rule of healthy
living among sensible people.
Eno helps your system, in Nature’s
own way, to free itself regularly of its
daily waste, and sees to it that your
blood-stream is always clean and
vigorous. Leads to a fuller enjoy-
ment of every minute of your daily life.
And Eno does its work so pleasantly.
The idea that only unpleasant purga*
tive mineral salts can be good for you
has long been exploded. In this climate
nothing can really take the place of
Eno with its beneficial effect upon the
whole system.
In two sizes at Chemists and Stores.
PREPARED ONLY BY J. C. ENO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sales JZgents: THE BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE & CO. LTD. SYDNEY, N. S. W.
Time is important
On all occasions, business or social, a correct
time-keeper is a prime essential. Into every
Elgin are built the finest parts by the world’s
best craftsmen, ensuring the creation of
watches of accuracy. Look for the name
Elgin.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING JEWELLERS.
<S>lgin
THE WATCH WORD FOR ELECANCEAND EFFICIENCY
/%/> Jrade Mark in the Watch Care
104
FSD
65 Duke Street, Grosvenor Square,
London, W.l, England
(4 doors from, Oxford Street, near Self ridge’s).
Cables: Olgallery, Westo, London.
BUY YOUR ENGLISH ANTIQUES FROM
ENGLAND.
We arrange for boxing, consular invoices and
declaration of antiquity, freight, insurance and
delivery to your door at the very lowest
rates. Antiques admitted duty free to Australia.
a
m
A Dining Room all furnished in guaranteed
antiques (i.e., each piece actually made over
100 years ago), for the low cost of £3l. Full
illustrated particulars in our Catalogue.
Illustrated Catalogue and Guide, sent on
receipt of 6 d. Australian stamp, contains;
(1) Complete price list; 180 photos; 60 pages.
(2) Furnishing and color schemes by Mrs.
Barrett.
(3) “Useful Household Hints,”, by 11. Stanley
Barrett, architect; contains “How to stain
deal floors to look like oak, and to last
20 years” ; “Best polish for old furniture
and how to make it”; “Cleaning
furniture, etc.”
(4) Old Furniture as a good Investment.
(5) Hints on buying Antiques, on Fakes and
Historical notes.
(6) List of Dates and Periods of Old Furniture.
(7) How to furnish your home in Antiques
for £lOO, giving full description of each
piece.
COUPON. Sydney Bulletin
I enclose 6d. Australian stamp for above
catalogue.
NAME
ADDRESS
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Simplest Way to
Stop Indigestion
If you get pain after meals or are losing
interest in life through digestive upset, try
this simple plan: Eat three Para-Pepsin
tablets during meals, and notice results. No
pain! Just a hearty meal with a smile, and
a feeling of tackling anything afterwards. No
drowsiness! Para-Pepsin is a great remedy
for digestive troubles—-you can’t compare it
with anti-acids or bismuthated magnesia. And
Para-Pepsin costs very little at any chemist’s.
Your radio pleasure
depends on the speaker
M agnavox Dynamic Speakers are made primarily
to provide realism in music and speech, yet vol*
time is available from a low whisper to far in
excess of any home requirements, all without dis-
tortion. The Belvedere is a beautiful piece of
furniture to add charm to your home.
A.C. Operation £l4/10/-
D.C. or A Battery Operation . . . . £ll/10/-
LET US DEMONSTRATE THROUGH
YOUR NEAREST RADIO DEALER.
Improve an Old Set—Perfect the new by using a
MA6NAVCX
DYNAMIC SPEAKER
Australian Patent
No. 7225.


m
m
Que«.n fltma
Skap€
Fashion in China
varying in
Chinaware as in all
else, are constant in this
that a tea-cup and its saucer
must be exquisitely light.
English Bone China alone
has this perfection. One
ofthisseason’smostfashion-
able ’designs is illustrated.
To say that every piece
bears the name of Shelley
is to say that it is English
Bone China of the best.
Ask to see the latest
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
- China
Nursery Ware
by Lucie Attweli
6-Hilda Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
FS
Legal Notice.
TO CHRISTINA MARY McKINLAY or
McKINLEY, daughter of the late John
Clarke McKinlay, of Sydney, New South
Wales, one of the next of kin of James
McKinlay, who died at Auckland, New Zea-
land, on the. 15th July, 1926.
Christina Mary McKinlay, or an£ person
knowing of her whereabouts, is requested to
communicate with the DISTRICT PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Auckland, New Zealand.
Every .person submitting a claim must
forward satisfactory evidence of identity.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Amusements.
gYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD., present
HER MAJESTY’S:
THE VAGABOND KING.
CRITERION: THE PATSY.
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
TH EATRE ROYAL, BRISBANE.
*■ SHOWING NIGHTLY.
A NEW SHOW EVERY WEEK.
NELLIE BRAMLEY
COMPANY present
The highest class of play obtainable, at popular
prices. -
The Royale Syncopators Chase Gloom
from Dull Intervals.
I c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
lIIS MAJESTY’S: THE DESERT SONGL
ROYAL:
MARGARET BANNERMAN in
OTHER MEN’S WIVES.
NEW COMEDY THEATRE:
LEON GORDON in
SCANDAL.
ATHENAEUM theatre,
A MELBOURNE.
Proprietor, Prank Talbot Pty-, Ltd.
Lessee, E. J. Carroll.
EVENINGS, 8.15.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS, 2.30.
E. ,T. CARROLL’S NEW ENGLISH DRAMATIC CO.
in
THE WRECKER.
A Thrilling Railway Mystery Play
By ARNOLD RIDLEY, author of
* THE GHOST TRAIN.
Sole Direction E. J. Carroll.
K
ING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NICOLA.
WORLD’S GREATEST WIZARD.
U OYT ’S D E LUXE THEATRE,
11 MELBOURNE.
AILEEN PRINGLE and LEW CODY in
BEAU BROADWAY.
VICTOR HUGO’S IMMORTAL ROMANCE,
LES MISERABLES.
Grow New Hair
in 30 Days
Six out of eight are bald or grey at 40,
yet very few need be. The hair roots can
be stimulated to new life very quickly by a
new scalp-invigorating' preparation known
as “Vi-Glo.” This acts on the growth and
color cells much as rain acts on a parched
plant. So long as the hair roots and color
glands are not dead (and they rarely die),
“Vi-Glo” will show remarkable results, grow-
ing new, youthful hair and restoring color
to fading hair. Ask your chemist for a 3/-
package of “Vi-Glo” to-day, or send 3/4
for outfit to Vi-Glorient Co., Kembla Bldg.,
Sydney. Satisfaction is guaranteed.
THE AUSTRALIAN MUSEUM MAGAZINE.
A Quarterly Journal dealing with Australian Natural History.
JANUARY-MARCH NUMBER, Vol. 111, No. 9, NOW AVAILABLE.
CONTENTS.
“BIRDS AND THE B'USH,” by K. A. Hindwood.
“ALLIGATOR OR CROCODILE?” by J. R. Kinghorn.
“THE FLIGHT OF FISHES,” by T. C. Roughley.
“BARRALLIER’S BLUE MOUNTAIN EXPLORATION,” by the late R. H. Cambage.
“A NATURALIST IN THE GULF COUNTRY,” by T. G. Campbell.
“WITH THE GREAT BARRIER REEF EXPEDITION,” by G. P. Whitlev and W. Boardman.
“THE I-URE OF A MANGROVE SWAMP,” by A. Musgrave.
Profusely illustrated. Obtainable at the Museum and from all Booksellers.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION: 4/4 posted; per Number, 1/1.
NATURE POSTCARDS.
SO studies of Australian Birds in color. Per set of 5 Cards
with Booklet, 1/1. Series, 6/2 posted.
12 Postcards of Papuan Natives, from photos, by Capt. Prank Hurley. Per set, 1/1 posted.
6 Postcards of Australian Mammals, in color. Per set, 1/1 posted.
THE BIG FOUR!
PROVISION FOR YOUR OLD AGE
PROTECTION FOR YOUR DEPENDENTS
A PROFITABLE INVESTMENT
CREATION OF AN IMMEDIATE ESTATE
Are ensured under Life policies with the
A.M.P. SOCIETY.
Participating policies effected by 31st December will share in the
Cash Bonus for 1928.
Cash Bonus allotted on 30th June last represented an average
return to participating members of 11/7 in EACH POUND OF
PREMIUMS PAID IN 1927.
Head Office,
87 Pitt Street, Sydney,
H. W. APPERLY,
General Manager.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The social event of the season in Midland
circles was the wedding of vivacious little
Alison, third daughter of the Eustace Cam-
erons, Mona Vale, Ross, to Hugh Howett
Austin, Murgha station, Deniliquin, N.S.W.
The knot was tied in the picturesque little
chapel in the Mona Vale grounds, which was
beautifully decorated with white flowers.
White tulle, rucked and bouffant, made a
filmy mist over the bride’s close-fitting sheath
of parchment satin. The head-dress, a plain,
tight-fitting cap, formed by the folds of
Limerick lace in the veil (lent by the ’groom’s
aunt, Mrs. Frank Austin, Widderin, Vic.),
was bound by a fillet of orange blossoms, and
a long cascade of tulle floated from the back
as a train. The ’maids, Mary Taylor and
sister Cynthia Cameron, were in blush-
pink georgette, with uneven hem lines and
caped bodices; and the two wee trainbearers,
Cynthia Fiskin and Celia Cameron, wore
quaint frilled georgette frocks, quite long,
with high waists. Their poke bonnets of
Leghorn straw were lined with pink and
trimmed with garlands of tiny flowers on the
brim.
Here you see Grace Smith, one of our
best-known teachers of the pianoforte, who
st a rt s this
month for a
world tour and
whose pupils
in Launceston
gave her a
very hearty
send-off the
other day.
Miss Smith
was born at
Wyny a r d
(Tas.), and
studied her
art at Melb.
Uni. under
Profs. Peter-
son, Thomp-
son and Laver.
For some
years she
taught ip Syd-
ney. Returning
to the Speck,
she soon ac-
quired a large circle of pupils in the northern
capital. Her passage for Honolulu was
booked in the Aorangi.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The holidays brought us three race meet-
ings—two of them on grilling days. The
Governor and Lady Hore-Ruthven were at
Cheltenham on both days and visited Glenelg
en route, where her Ex. listened to. a
feminine stalwart of 80 telling tales of
pioneer days. "Vice-regal headquarters are
at Marble Hill for the summer, the first time
the hills house has been used for ages.
Visitors there have included Lady Stalbridge,
our popular A.D.C.’s mother, and Edward
Tiarks. His Ex. managed a trip to Melbourne
for a glimpse of the Test, and Capt.
Grosvenor and Mr. Tiarks did the same trip
per aeroplane in two and a half hours.
Heat thinned the feminine attendance at
Morphettville, and sunshades, fans and
georgettes were the chief items of apparel.
A recent bride in golden brown and a young
matron in silver grey were two of the
smartest figures on the lawns, and a tall fair-
headed miss in deep blue one of the coolest.
The country meeting produced a feminine
jockey-—Miss Davies, of Plympton—who very
capably rode her own horse when no other
rider was available. She is not yet 17, but
has been a well-known figure in show rings
for five or six years.
The hub of our social universe, is divided
between Mount Lofty and Victor Harbor —
the latter most in favor with young folk who
have discovered its surfing possibilities. The
John Corbins are at the seaside resort (he
making steady headway after his recent ill-
ness), the H. C. Caves, Humphrey Makins,
Stanley Murrays, Claude Lucases and a host
of others, among them the Kenneth Duffields,
who organised a camping party. For stay-at-
homes there have been a couple of golf dances,
one at Glenelg and the other at Kooyonga.
The Hamilton-Allnutt wedding was at St.
Andrew’s, Walkerville. The bride, youngest
daughter of the late Edward Allnutt, looked
charming in ankle-lengthed, tight-bodiccd
velvet, and her three bridesmaids, Nancy
Acraman, Nancy Bowman and the bride-
groom’s sister Barbara, in their leaf-green
frocks with primrose embroidery, were like
an English wood in spring.
The Hon. Mrs. It. D. Ryder has returned
to England, where the marriage of her only
daughter will take place early in the year.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The gods of the weather gave us a pure gem
of a day for the Derby. Lawns and hedges
were spruce and emerald-green; the gardens
were colorful strips of phlox, petunias and
roses, and the saddling-paddock wore a glori-
ous canopy of purple bougainvillaea. Giant
cannas, in their round beds, seemed to be
standing on tiptoe vying with each other as
to which could see most of the race. The
Governor was there with sons Simon and
Wilfred and the Kerr-Pearses. Frock-
ing ran to tones of beige, sunshades
were trifles of raffia and organdie, and
green and black hats were plentiful.
Lady Nathan donned a beautiful gown
of fawn georgette, and Mrs. Marillier
accompanied her, in black satin : Mrs. Arthur
Francis looked' very slim in black moire with
white embroideries; Mrs. Henriques chose
floral chiffon in. a ground of black; Maude
Sholl contrasted a shrimp-pink frock and a
green hat; Ethel Treadgold wore youthful
flounces of cream net and a pale pink cor-
sage ; Mrs. Jack Durack was in saxe-blue
over shell pink. Lois Weir wore grey and
Doreen O’Hara a confection of beige lace and
a Baku straw. Leaf-green georgette adorned
Mrs. J. P. Dwyer, and Hilary Smith’s mist-
grey draperies looked cool under a jade sun-
shade.
Even the shady plane-trees were no pro-
tection from the heat at the Bailway Stakes
meeting. The women sizzled in their thin
frocks, and wondered how the men kept alive
in tweed coats and stiff collars. Dressing
was restrained —the most expensive and
smartest turnouts were jealously reserved for
the Cup. His Ex. occupied the v.-r. cubby-
hole, but Lady Campion was not well enough
to be present. Mrs. Kerr-Pearse chose a
medley of polka dots and brought Miss
Nesbit, in blue. Mrs. Winterbottom was in
cream and gold, and Mrs. Collins in beige.
Good-looking Nora Lovell wore blue lace;
Mrs. Eric handover chose a black hat with
champagne lace and georgette; Mrs. Fred
Senior was in navy moire; and Mrs. Maril-
lier in moss-green spots in a lighter ground.
Mrs. Hadley and Miss Watkins looked smart
in navy georgette; Mrs. Sandy McLean con-
trasted black millinery with apricot georg-
ette ; Mrs. Ted Lukin had a beautiful gown
of crepe romaine and a hat to match of
beige straw; Mrs. Hugo Throssell’s frock
showed a figuring of white leaves on black;
Mrs. Donald Smith was all in cool grass-
greens; and Mrs. Stowe sported a black lace
flounce over white georgette.
In order to launch some just-left-school
young things into society five matrons joined
forces and gave a dance in the Y.A.L. Hall.
The supper-room, .particularly difficult to
decorate, was smothered under a ton of
flowers. Even the gym. ropes, thick enough
to tie up a mailboat, had their ends hidden
by bouquets. Mrs. Ernest Lee Steere was
in slirimp-pink, and manipulated a gorgeous
feather fan of a deeper tone; Mrs. Fred
Dempster wore pervenche blue and silver;
Mrs. Fred Walsh was in black; Mrs. Nor-
man Temperley chose French-blue brocaded
in grey; and the fifth hostess, Mrs. Percy
Wickham, wore black. The five debs, were
arrayed in white with twinkling kid shoes.
Marjorie Dempster made her bow in a souffle
of tulle, Margaret Walsh in chiffon and
cobwebby gold lace, Mary Wickham in satin
and chiffon, Mollie Robinson in a bunch
of tulle as to skirt and corsage of taffeta,
and Gwen Ambrose in georgette and silver
garnishings. Among other dancers were his
Ex. and aide Davidson-Houston; Betty
Barber, in vieux-rose taffetas; Judy Black,
in rose brocade; and Mrs. Geof Drake-Brock-
man, in black ring velvet and diamente
shoulder straps. Youthful Muriel Lee Steere
wore a pink party frock, and Maude de
Pledge shower-of-hail net.
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
For the races at Ascot there was bright
sunshine, which brought out some gay frock-
ing. The Goodwins lunched with the com-
mittee and had tea on the verandah. Grey
satin and mariette was worn by her Ex.,
with broideries of silver and a cream and
black hat; Mrs. A. Spence was in daffodil;
Mrs. Darvall wore pink and white, with
black hat; daughter Joyce was in marigold;
Mrs. E. S. Mutton chose myrtle-green; Doris
O’Mahony was in daffodil hailstone voile;
Zoe Jones chose burnt orange; Iris Buchanan
wore Mary-blue; Eleanor Peachey was in
white and pink; Ivy Clarke wore ivory and
rose; and Mary Norton’s pastel-pink was
worn with a pink hat. The Isaac Moores,
Cadell-Garricks, E. K. Tullys and Judge
MacNaughton were there.
Sir John and Lady Goodwin have been to
Toowoomba for the Amateur Turf Club’s
meeting and to the ball in the show pavilion.
W. Kent, the A.T.C. president, and Mrs.
Kent, in pale pink and silver, received their
Exes. Lady Goodwin wore black mariette
with bodice of black and silver beads. Mrs.
Dick Sword (Longreach) chose lavender and
silver; Mrs. C. Cooke (Pilton), King’s blue;
Mrs. Julius Cohen, black Spanish lace; Mrs.
Walter White, ivory veiled in black Spanish
lace. Heather Provan was in delphinium
blue and Neth Hutchinson in mauve and
silver.
A dinner at the Club Hotel was given
to their Exes, by the Kents, in a setting of
African daisies and meadowsweet. Major
and Mrs. Victor Bell, Jack Turner and
Colonel Campbell were amongst the guests.
This is our Town Clerk, Col. F. W. G.
Annand, whose passion in life is efficiency,
Since his ap-
pointment he
has thoroughly
overhauled the
many council
en terp rises,
and the latest
to receive his
attention, the
former Water
and Sewerage
Board, has
been dealt
with in a dras-
tic manner.
Though de-
scribed by some
of the old brig-
ade as a muck-
raker, his re-
port of over
100 pages has
been essen-
tially accepted
by tile council,
and it is anticipated a saving of £37,000 per
annum can be effected. Col. Annand’s future
position will be virtually that of City
Manager. He was formerly manager of a
local bank, and brings financial experience to
his present position. A Thiel camera made
the portrait.
Palms and bowls of white roses decorated
St. Michael’s for the marriage of Dr. Pat
Kelly to Babs Barry. The Sisters of Mercy
and friends of the bride did the adorning.
The leading lady dressed the part in cream
satin beaute and her mother’s wedding veil
of emboidered net, and carried a sheaf of
lilies. Mrs. P. Gallagher, in pink and
blue taffetas, was matron of honor.


J t j
885?
Ti
J
I
TK
\'(s
#i§§®flpj
»
mw
SfHp
on
«
rt 'flJ: //■
P*
■
X
jfS
yv-r
■ u
X.
m
DF
SDF
cI) Mt pV
OT only in the great cities, but in the more
remote districts as well, the popularity of
Sharwood Shoes for Men and Women grows
ever greater and greater. The reason is obvious —
they are good to look at, because in cut and style they
express the last word of fashion, and they are good to
wear, materials being of the finest, and workmanship
being exceptionally thorough. For comfort and
fitting, too, they are unexcelled.
When next you need boots or shoes, ask for
Sharwood’s —wear them once and you’ll wear them
always. All better-class stores throughout Aus-
tralia will be pleased to submit the newest models
for your inspection.
Remember —the name is on every pair—be sure to
look for it! It is NOT a Sharwood unless it bears
this name!
df
FAILTLEXf
rCCTWEAR
%
si
,y.
'■J
\
ft.
/Ch?
Mi
■
c£^
Ml;
-
3
—Vj
c ’/.. ),
£
»v
s:e-t
Communicate with the Sharwood Service Bureau,
Melbourne, if you have any difficulty in procuring
and women’s shoes.
Abbotsford,
both men’s


K3Ba.
SAY “KRAFT”- BEFORE
YOU SAY “CHEESE”
To get the very best in Cheese it is necessary
to ask for Kraft Cheese, not merely cheese.
Kraft Cheese is the finest quality, and has a
most delicious flavor—it is always the very best.
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
m
KRi
Made in Australia by
Kraft Walker Cheese
Co. Ltd., at
Riverside Avenue, Mel-
bourne, Victoria.
Sold
by weight or in k-lb. cartons by
all grocers a\d storekeepers.
Hotel International
’ Phones;
FWIIIZ-S
Most Up-to-date
Seaside Hotel
in New South Wales.
Situated on highest
Point of Beach,
overlooking Pacific.
BONDI
BEACH
lift
mjM
Telegrams ;
Hotel International,
Bondi.
This Palatial Hotel
is now completed
and ready for
reception of guests.
Tariff:
From £4/4/- weekly
100 Bedrooms,
Hot Water in
Rooms.
Spacious Dining-rooms accommodating 2SO. Lounge-rooms. Palm Court.
Special Suites. Rooms De Luxe. Bathrooms. Writing Bureau. Telephones.
Roof Garden. Cabaret De Luxe. Plunge and Shower Baths.
The Call of Judah.
BY HAROLD MERCER
LOOKING back upon my first meeting
with Moses Lockstein it seemed absurd
that I should be at all concerned about
him. And yet I was concerned, apprehen-
sive of what would happen to him.
My first feeling had been something of
aversion. It was not until afterwards that
I realised how carefully our introduction had
been arranged; and then I could only feel
amused at the almost childlike guile of my
friend Givotski who, in spite of it, I liked
for his many genial good qualities.
“You are a journalist, yes?” said Lock-
stein. “I do not care for journalists. They
interfere too much. So do their papers. They
tell people that they are being badly treated,
and people believe them and kick. Now I
lend money. I sell it as a grocer sells his
goods. The grocer he expects to get his
twelve and a half per cent, profit, sometimes
more; on a lot of goods he turns all his
money over in a week. If I want to make
similar profits on my money they cry out.”
“The people would be in an unhappy state
if the papers had not fought for them,” I
suggested.
“They would not be unhappy because they
would not know,” he retorted emphatically.
“And why would'tliey be unhappy? A man
should be careful, provident; he should re-
member that the father’s sins visit them-
selves on his children. That is according to
law.”
“It’s a law that would fall pretty hard
children if fathers weren’t afraid of
exposure,” I remarked mildly.
“Well, I do not fear the papers,” he said
warmly. Then he smiled humorously.
“You see, every time the papers report a
case in which I am concerned, they adver-
tise me. People hear of me who had not
heard of me before, and they come to me
for money—the man who .borrows money
never thinks lie will have difficulty in repay-
ing. And the reports in the papers help
me to make those who have pay.
They read and then they say, ‘Lockstein is
a hard man; it is no use asking for any
grace from him.’ It is to my advantage that
people know me as a hard man. That far I
have to thank the papers. But I am glad to
meet you—most glad,” he said, with a sudden
geniality. “You and my friend Mr. Givot-
ski will have another drink with me.”
He had shouted before; I sensed imme-
diately that there was something he wanted.
But, of course, there was no direct approach
to it. I was thus able to size him up before
the request arrived; and I had concluded
that his preliminary outburst was merely a
vaunt to hide his real feelings. Public re-
ferences to his harshness in business hurt
him deeply; so he pretended that he liked
them. His attitude was not peculiarly Jew-
ish, though it is one very common amongst
Jews.
But when he spoke of his daughter he
was another man. A devotion and pride,
almost sloppily sentimental, was in every
cadence of his speech. When Givotski inter-
posed that she had “a voice like Melba’s”
the crude over-exaggeration of the compliment
did not annoy him; instead, his eyes flashed
their pleasure.
“She is to have her first big concert next
week,” Lockstein said.
“Perhaps you could write a little notice
for the papers about it,” Givotski suggested
with a too-palpable offhandedness, just as.
if that was not the whole purpose of the
introduction and the long, round-about
friendly conversation!
I could have laughed at their obvious be-
lief that they had kept their harmless little
conspiracy hidden from me; at the childish
simplicity that is so often associated with
the mind which works in tortuous ways.
But I wrote out an advance notice of the
coming concert for the sake of Givotski, who,
instead of possessing the money-making or
money-keeping powers usually attributed to
the Jew, was a spendthrift, dependent to a
considerable extent upon “lifts” from his co-
religionists, who had for him the racial
admiration for the man of erudition and
Talmudic scholarship. If it was to benefit
him I was satisfied.
That was not, as I thought it was, the
end of Lockstein so far as I was concerned.
As a matter of fact, the man who did not
like newspapers developed a passion for press
publicity which was almost pathetic. In
spite of the crafty way he had gone about
getting the first paragraphs written, he was
quite prepared to pay for everything, and
even pressed to be allowed to do so when
payment was refused for some small service
that did not seem worth it. The press-
notices I wrote were all about his daughter;
but I grew to realise that he liked to have
“daughter of Mr. Moses Lockstein, the weil-
known member of the Jewish community,”
dragged in somewhere. Once, early in our
acquaintance, when I had left the phrase out,
I saw a look in his face that expressed hurt;
and an unusual cheque and a wonderful
animation of manner greeted me when I had
persuaded a paper to publish a photograph
of the daughter, taken in the garden of their
house, with her father standing beside her.
It was a few occasions before Lockstein
got out of the habit of approaching the sub-
ject of these paragraphs by indirect means.
When he wanted a longer notice of his daugh-
ter’s first concert than the papers had given,
the approach was by way of a surprise meet-
ing in the city, and an exuberant invitation
to dinner, which was such a good dinner
that it looked as if the coining of a guest
had been anticipated. The request for the
paragraph came afterwards, as we sat over
some very good wine.
It was then that I met Lina .Lockstein, and
with her the side of the moneylender that
had nothing to do with his business. Amidst
the ostentatious luxury of Lockstein’s house
she fitted like a ruby resting in a cushion
of velvet—warm-colored, bright and a trifle
hard. Every action of the father spoke of
an over-doting pride ; to me the girl appeared
scarcely worthy of it. She could be charm-
ing enough, but the charm was artificial, even
as the well-trained voice was metallic and
characterless; and she was spoiled, full of
“‘But suicide!’ Givotski exclaimed. ‘lt is a shame, a disgrace in our faith.”’
“‘What worse shame can a man suffer than that his children disown him?' Lock-
stein replied bitterly.”
an assurance that she was entitled to all
that was lavished upon her.
The ostentation of the house was repeated
in the happenings in it; yet I found even
in this some reason for liking the man. On
the Friday night I soon, discovered the white
cloth and the candles would be on the table;
and then, if Lockstein wanted anything writ-
ten, he did not want it until Saturday night
-—when the Sabbath was over. The arrival
of collectors for Jewish charities on the
night of my first dinner in the house seemed
more than a coincidence. Lockstein gave
generously; an impression of a scene staged
came to me.
Yet it appeared to me that this religious
and philanthropic display was not ostenta-
tion only. Lockstein almost pathetically
wanted to show that he was not the mere
slave of a business with which he was admit-
tedly not in love. And I heard from another
of how T , the Jewish Aid Society having re-
fused a loan, to a Jew of unstable reputa-
tion, Lockstein had paid to him the money
on the stipulation that anonymity should be
observed.
It was when I discovered a growing unease
in Lockstein’s manner that I realised I had
unwittingly cultivated a liking for him in
place of the original aversion. Lina’s musi-
cal career wms founded on love of adulation;
instead of needing to make money from
it, she had the backing of her father’s money,
and it secured her advancement far beyond
her importance as an artist. Concert pro-
moters can see special virtues in a performer
with a rich father prepared, without hope
of financial return, to back their ventures.
But while Lockstein helped his daughter to
her niche, he was paying for the gulf that
was rapidly opening between himself and
the greatest softening influence of his life.
Lina had acquired friends of social preten-
sions, and her desire to live up to them was
doing the damage.
Nothing but Lockstein’s ageing appear-
ance showed the hurts his daughter inflicted,
especially by her too obvious desire to hide
the fact that she was a Jewess. This led
her to constant breaches of that Sabbath
observance which was an essential part of
her father’s life and being. He had tried
to stop this backsliding; but his habit of
pampering his daughter had weakened his
hold upon her.
Business took me one day near his house,
with no intention of seeing him; but his
friend Givotski caught up with me and
linked his arm with mine*.
“It is a kind act to comfort a mhn in the
time of his bereavement,” he said, moving
along with me towards Lockstein’s house,
thinking that it was my destination.
“Bereavement?” I exclaimed.
“What? Have you not heard?” he said.
“Lina has married, without her father’s con-
sent. Married a Christian ! A rich young
man, of an old English family,' Roy
de Lucey! It is a hard blow to the old
man. His daughter is dead to him.”
I knew what this would mean to the
Jewish mind, and my heart was filled
with pity for him and his unrewarded
devotion. All his life, I knew that,
proud of his ancient faith, he would
have built, upon having a part in teach-
ing the children of his daughter the
Torah ; now all those good dreams were shat-
tered.
The blinds were down and there were out-
ward signs of mourning at Lockstein’s house,
The old man was stricken with grief; and
when he had installed us in comfortable chairs
he returned to the three-legged stool on
which he had evidently been sitting. It was
a mourning for the dead he was maintain-
ing; the mourning lamps, wicks floating in
oil m open vessels, were about the room;
and, besides using only the stool, Lockstein
wore heel-less shoes to add to the discomfort
himsclf >U 1 His tarn
anTthe iSfd
visible—this to show that he observed the
tradition in the rending of his garments.
"Tif V, u Ut •■5 IVOtskl
Hphrpl 1 ’ blended Wlth many
i4T> . ; ' , ,
~ . e ,iaaps the future may restore some-
thing, he suggested, at last. “lon are rich;
if the young man is willing, you have friends
who may be able to influence the Rabbi to
admit him as a proselyte and let the children
be educated in Judaism.”
“She was all my wealth ; my dear Rachel
lived in her,” moaned Lockstein, in the
curious chant which fits the mourning spirit.
He ignored Givotski’s suggestion; in his
speech Lina was one who had passed. There
were no reproaches; all his references were
to past affection, past perfection 1 . Lina was
dead.
He arose and brought an album, which he
laid on the table. As he opened it I saw
with surprise that it was filled with press
cuttings—there must have been hundreds of
them carefully kept by this man who at
first had told me that he did not like the
papers. His finger fell on a particularly
long cutting, one of several like it.
“It was a magnificent wedding,” he said,
with a curious element of pride in his voice.
“They must have wanted her, to pay all the
money it cost without asking me for a penny.
If it had been in the Synagogue, and I had
paid for everything, it could not have been
a grander wedding. But against my wishes!
In a Christian church!”
It was grotesque, this pride allied with
the mourning for one dead. But I carried
away with me a vision of a broken old man
bent on his stool, his head upon his hands.
Months later Lina, to my surprise, ran
after me in a street in the city. She was
more radiant than I had ever seen her, and
yet bore a hint of trouble in her eyes.
“You have an influence with my father,”
she said. “If you speak to him it might have
more weight than if the words came from
one of his own people. We have written to
him, but he takes no notice. We have called,
but his housekeeper always tells us he is
not at home. And I am afraid to go to
his office. My emotion might be too much,
and my pleadings would make a scene. But
why can not my father be friendly? Because
I married a man I love!” And she forced
a commission upon me which I accepted
unwillingly.
It surprised me to find that Lockstein
even listened to me. His eagerness was re-
strained, but it was plain that he had
been waiting for some opportunity to see
again the daughter he had tried to regard
as dead. And I left assured that, although
Lockstein would never get over his daughter’s
marriage outside the fajth, the re-union
ought to, at least to some extent, drag his
life out of the tragedy into which it had
been cast).
Givotski, pale-faced, seized my arm one
day a little later.
“Lockstein ! Come with me !” he gasped ;
and then more coherently: “I am afraid for
him. I am going out to his house, but I
am afraid to go by myself, llis housekeeper
’phoned me that he had come home fyill of
lamentation, talking madly. In fear she
returned to see whether she could do any-
thing for him, and saw him ip his study,
with a revolver on the table; but he pushed
her from the room and locked the door.”
Even as he spoke Givotski had hailed a
taxi and thrust me in; and as we raced out
of the city he told me something of the
suffering that Lockstein’s re-union with his
daughter had brought upon him. Undoubt-
edly Lina had affection for him ; but her
social ambitions dominated everything. She
met him privately with gladness, but when
he had to be introduced to friends no men-
tion was made of any relationship. He
was just “Mr. Lockstein.” There
was no acknowledged connection
between the wife of I)e Lucey and
the Jewish moneylender.
The humiliation of it all had
struck blow after blow at the old
man. Better had the daughter re-
mained dead to him than lived as
one ashamed to acknowledge her
father and her race!
Givotski explained a little of
what had happened as the taxi
raced to the old man’s home. “He
told me that he had made up his
mind to go to the big garden party she was
giving to-day. I tried to dissuade him, but
he would go. Now his fears have evidently
been confirmed by what has happened. It
is the finish.”
Prom the litter about him Lockstein had
been cleaning up his papers' making ready
his affairs.
Pathetically aged, he looked grimly at the
weapon which Givotski had instantly seized.
“But suicide!” Givotski exclaimed. “To
take one’s life is against the law! It is a
shame, a disgrace in our faith.”
“What worse shame can a man suffer than
that his children disown him?” Lockstein
replied bitterly.
There was a moment’s diversion, and, turn-
ing, we saw a rather fine-looking young man
enter. To me Givotski whispered: “De
Lucey!”
“Mr. Lockstein,” said the newcomer,
speaking under stress, “I have only just
now heard that you left the party offended;
and I have only just now learned, too, why.
I am ashamed, sir. But I beg of you not to
blame Lina. She has this madness of social
ambition. It will go, perhaps—when the
child is born.”
(Concluded on page 53.)


FOR CYCLISTS
Tin
CViain
(every roller revolves)
fitted in conjunction with
the® Hubs
makes cycling more and more
delightful.
B. W. Chains and Hubs are supported
by many years manufacturing experi-
ence. They are essentially the pro-
ducts of a specialised organisation,
and their perfect accuracy in design
and wonderful wearing qualities
insure a service without compare,and
a smooth and silky running which
no other combination can excel.
You should specify them on your
new mount and if any difficulty in
supply write our
factory Representative
JOHN ARNOLD,
Degraveo Street, Melbourne, Vic.
G.P.O. Box 71.
DISTRIBUTORS:
Melbourne: Acme Cycle Co.
Sydney: Williams, Dredge & Haydon, Ltd.
Brisbane: J. H. Cowley & Co., Ltd.
Perth: Atkins (W.A.), Ltd.
New Zealand: Adams, Ltd.
Hope Gibbons, Ltd.
E. Reynolds & Co., Ltd.
m
1 1 —era?
S
4
This Pump Lifts 200 Feet
from Creek to Homestead
This is a fine pump for conveying water a long distance, and up the valleys
and hills from creek or river to homestead.
The “BILLABONG”
Improved Double-acting Piston Pump
FOR ELEVATIONS UP TO 200 FEET.
The ‘‘Billabong” Double-acting Piston Pump is made at our own works. Only
expert workmanship and good-quality materials enter into its construction.
It is specially adapted to meet the demand for a medium-priced power pump
to be operated by Kerosene or Petrol engines, or other belt-power. Here
are some details:—
FSD
324-330
PITT ST.,
SYDNEY
JOHN DANKS &SON PTY.LTD.
391-403
BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE
“THE AGE”
Established 185 If.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
“THE AGE” is a publication of quality and
character, and has earned an enviable reputa-
tion by seventy-four years of steadfast labor
in the production of a clean family newspaper.
A Victorian production of National import-
ance, “THE AGE” occupies a place in journal-
ism unsurpassed anywhere. Original, of un-
doubted prestige, a leader in everything and
a political force recognised by all.
If you desire to keep fully informed of the
news of the day read
“THE AGE.”
It provides a daily interpretation of current
topics and enables its subscribers to keep in
touch with the world’s progress.
“THE AGE” publisher over
1,000,000 advertisements
annually.
Price lid. per copy at all Newsagents and
Bookstalls, or 12/- per quarter, post free
within the Commonwealth.
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
“Benger’s Food
has saved my
baby’s life ”
—so says an Australian
mother, whose baby is now
thriving splendidly.
Babies thrive upon Benger’s,
because it is always prepared
with fresh new milk. Benger’s
enriches the milk and adapts
it to the delicate digestion of
a child.
J
Food
Be*d. IKAD> HAKK.
Send for Benger's Booklet, post free.
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.,
350, George Street, SYDNEY.
A.2RI
Backache?
Stiff Joints?
Rheumatism?
Here’s Quick Relief!
It doesn’t matter how severely you suffer
ageing aches, pains and consequent weak,
worn-out spells, a few doses of Harrison’s
Pills will make a wonderful improvement
in your health; and one bottle will convince
you there is nothing to equal them for re-
newing healthy activity in men and women
who arc beginning to feel their years. Hun-
dreds of genuine testimonials. One user
writes: “I got a bottle of Harrison’s Pills
about a month ago, and it was marvellous
the good they did me.”—M.H., Mt. Perry.
Another says: “I would have tried Har-
rison’s Pills long ago but had been dis-
appointed with so many other things. My
sister gave me some to try three weeks ago,
and I must say the pills are wonderful. I
am now quite free from rheumatic pains,
which have bothered me for years.”— M.T.,
Sydney.
Another writes: “My husband has had kid-
ney trouble for past 12 months; he has tried
other pills but got no relief, and always in
pain. On Thursday last lie bought a bottle
of Harrison’s Pills, and he says they are
wonderful. Since Friday night his back
has been splendid—it has not pained at all.
He cannot make out why they have cured
him so quickly.”—Mrs. E.J., Hurlstone Park.
Remember: If YOU want to feel years
younger quickly and safely without a single
ache or pain—this is the signed remedy of
a London doctor. Try it! Any chemist or
storekeeper can supply you. Satisfaction
within three days, or money back guaranteed:
Harrison’s
Backache
& Bladder
Pills
REMOVE THE CAUSE OF ACHES AND PAINS !
Of All Chemists and Stores. Trial Size 2/-, Medium Size 3/-, Economy Size Sf-
If not near Chemist, post order to Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building, Sydney.
Ibtftk-
YOU cannot buy a bettei
pen for the money than
this sturdy, good - looking
“Blackbird.” Each part is shaped
and finished with the care and
precision not usually found in
pens of similar price.
SELF-
FILLING
BLACKBIRD”
91-
OF STATIONERS
AND
JEWELLERS
FS
BLACKBIRD
SELF-FILLER
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., 133& 135, OxTordSt.,London,W.l
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY. LTD., 181, Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
“Swan” Pens, “ Blackbird ” Pens, “ Swan ” Ink and “ Fyne-Poynt ” Pencil*.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.


(Jream of Yeast Smiles
% _ tjf At TH
g
JT
Yeast
far Health /'*
M
:
o
The THRILL of drama, and the thrill ol
Sparkling Health ! Here we see the famous
Victor McLaglen and Nick Stuart, “ Fox ”
Stars, in a scene from “ The River Pirate.”
Here we see the whole-hearted smile of
good fellows . . . the Cream of Yeast
‘ Smile of Health
ON THE RIGHT, Charles Morton and Sally
Phipps, two more famous Fox Players, whose
care-free smiles tell of Youth ... Romance ~. and
HEALTH! Cream of Yeast is a favourite pick-
me-up medicine and tonic with the film-stars.
IN THE CIRCLE, Satty
O’Neil, “ Universal” Star,
whose marvellous acting is
a feature of “ The Girl on
the Barge.” Miss O’Neil
is another famous user of
Cream of Yeast.
BELOW, a happy snap of
Sue Carol and David
Rollins, featured in the
“ Fox ” super-film, " The
Air Circus. ” The
younger film-stars, as well
as the more mature
ojayers, like Lewis
Stone, know the
health-value of
Cream of Yeast.
Take Cream
of Yeast your-
self for Hot
Weather Leth-
argy, Headaches,
Sleeplessness, De-
pressed or Worn-out Feeling,
Bad Nerves, Upset Stomach
and such-like ills. All chemists %
1111,3/6 and 5/9.
If no Chemist
near, order
from Amalga-
matedLabora-
torieSj Kembla
B’l’g, Sydney.
FOR YOUR NEXT PARTY, PICNIC,
OR SUPPER INTRODUCE
CAPTAIN CRAB
AND SEE THE SMILING WELCOME
HE RECEIVES
row ruirrHKft t»**rtcui.A«s ask voma <saoc«a
row wcciAt-»pon - " ' ;
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Tuesday
PRICE 3d.
It deals v ith every subject of
interest to women.
QUEENSLAND’S BIG DAILY PAPER
THE BRISBANE COURIER
Easily the best and biggest Daily Paper
published in Queensland and carries more
ADVERTISING
than any other Queensland paper year in
and year out - - “Courier” advertising
INCREASES SALES
Rate Cards and specimen
copies from
Robt. D. Fisher,
Sydney Representative,
74 Pitt Street.
’Phone 85007.
Published by the
Brisbane Newspaper Co.,
“Courier” Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
Also publishers of the
“Queenslander” and
“Sports Referee."
The momentary light in Lockstein’s eye
as he exclaimed “The child!” faded quickly
into what seemed a worse despair*.
“When I heard you were at the party I
wanted to see you, sir,” the young man
resumed. “I have not worried about these
things before, but the child has made me
think of them. I want to see how it can be
arranged that the child shall be brought up
in Judaism.”
“You—a Christian !” began Lockstein.
“My grandfather’s name was Luckenburg,”
said De Lucey.
“Luckenburg!” Lockstein exclaimed.
‘‘He made money; it was the women who
wantqd to be socially big; they created an
English ancestry.” He laughed curiously at
that. “But it was a Jewess my father
married; and I married a Jewess*. And 1
was brought up in the Torah t; and I read no-
Portion. My mother’s social ideas held me;
but now with the child coming”- r
There was almost maniacal happiness in
Lockstein’s face. Both were too occupied to
notice us. I tapped Givotski’s arm find we
crept away, and as we passed out we heard
the words like a triumphant song from Lock-
stein: “There is but one God, He is God!”
Palings.
A GRAPHIC STORY OF THE BIG TIMBER, BY E. R. ECCLES.
TFIE thin man in the hut doorway
shouted an invitation. Devlin, on the t
mining track in drenching rain, turned
wdtli thankfulness in his direction.
“Rough night,” the man said. “Better
come in and get dry.”
“Thanks. Been wet since morning. Is
it far to Hockley’s mill?”
“Five miles. You couldn’t do it. It’s
going to be dark early. Gome in and get
over there by the fire.” ,
Devlin crossed the sunkon doorstep, and
looked gratefully at the blaze. His host
tossed some dfingarees in his direction.
“Some spares. Get into them if you like.
I’ll get some tucker out —the billy’s boiling.”
“Got a swagful here,” Devlin said.
His host protested. “Better keep that.
You may need it later on. I’m Hallam,
Joe Hallam —mostly Old Joey. Palings”—
as Devlin’s eyes fell on a tangle of tools.
Devlin nodded. Broad axe, paling knife,
wedges and maul. The" bush was coming
back. He could smell stripped bark and gum.
“Keep moving out as the mill sites get
closer,” Hallam said. “Hatters aren’t appre-
ciated. ‘Pick the eyes out of the timber,’
you know 7 ” —-his worn face buckled into a
smile.
“I know,” Devlin nodded understandingly.
A blaze lighted the hut from end to end. “It’s
good and clean in here,” Devlin said appre-
ciatively.
“First-class villa residence. All conveni-
ences. But no cook.” Hallam stooped to
draw his camp-oven bread.
“Don’t want women cooks or any other
sort,” Devlin growled with a sudden vicious
memory. Fie had forgotten the city. A
sewer-rat surfeited, that’s what he’d been.
Heaps of chaps he knew lived there know-
ing neither rat nor sewer; but he’d struck
both. The kind of woman he knew 7 emptied
pockets; they didn’t make homes. That big-
mouthed one —what a leech she’d been while
he had a penny of his earnings! There had
been younger ones—plenty. But the big-
mouthed one was an all-pervading memory,
clinging, nauseating.
“Curse the lot!” he said aloud.
“You think that when you leave them.
Afterwards you get damned lonely. Any-
way, here’s tea,” said Hallam, and poured
it. steaming, from the billy.
They talked impersonally of a hundred
things—mill sites, splitting tallies, tram
lines and rangers. Devlin fell asleep at last
in his host’s bunk, his mind running in old
channels, a roaring southerly in his ears.
A rough voice outside woke him in broad
daylight: “Too rotten to burn! I know
your sort. If you can’t turn out better stuff
than that you needn’t look to me for tucker.
Rheumatism? Bah, you blasted old waster!
Either you run me out some stacks of first-
class stuff or I’ll run you out of the dis-
trict. Understand?”
Devlin caught the uneven quaver in IFal-
lam’s voice. “Doherty, I. never cheated you
or any man alive. The stuff wasn’t faulty,
and you know it. The account’s behind, I
grant you, but you’ll get it, every penny of
it, and —and you can go to Hell. You’ve
never made anything out of us splitters—
oh. no!”
“Damn take-downs like you don’t give me
a chance to. Now, 100k —I’m not a bene-
volent asylum. Get that!”
Doherty turned his horse, and trotted off.
Hallam went into the hut, breathing sharply,
as a man growm older than he knows.
“Nice chap,” Devlin said.
“Blast his eyes!” growled Hallam. He
looked thinner than the night before, shaken,
aged. Devlin looked at him with sudden
pity. It w 7 as hard to be crook and in a hole.
He glanced- at the tools.
“Will you take me on for a spell?” he
said. “I used to do a bit with those before,
and I was only going for a job at the mill.
Let’s cut that skinflint out —come on, Ave’ll
do it easy.” . He was dressed and on the
floor, fingering the paling knife. He looked
through the doorway at the clean timber
beyond.
“Good straight belt out there. Makes you
want to start right away.”
Hallam smiled uncertainly, watching him
deftly sorting wedges.
“It’s fine to be young,” he said.
.Chipping falling billeting. Hallam
watched Devlin at each operation as an old
dog watches a younger one. Not once did
Devlin falter. He worked with freedom and
assurance. He trimmed the billets with the
sureness of a butcher picking off chops w r ith
a cleaver, and lifted the square product to
the break. Hallam watched anxiously. Dev-
lin stooped for tabby and knife, set the knife
into position and tapped with the tabby.
His elbow jerked down. The blade shot
down the billet with a sure movement, trat-
velling freely to the billet’s end. Again he
ran the knife. The billet was divided neatly
into its two-paling sections. Devlin divided
each into its twin palings with an even,
steady dexterity. With a little “sput” each
paling flew off clean and even.
Hallam smiled. “You can do it all right.
Better than I can,” he said.
Devlin split the rest of the billet, and
“booked” it ready for the stack. He laughed
and reached for another. The city was far
away. The bush was a good mistress —
curse the time he’d spent away from her!
The stacks rose square through the scrub,
five hundred six-feet a day'. In the clean
timber his j>rogress was unfaltering. Warm
spring days brought Hallam new power.
When he moved in front of Devlin, falling,
heading off and opening, the tallies went up
with a bound.
“A few more thousand and we’re made
men,” Devlin said. “And we are not selling
these to Doherty cither. We’ll damn well
sell them outside.”
The chip from a big clean-barrelled tree
on the gully bank split perfectly, but the
falling promised difficulties.
“Let her over the creek, and she’ll smash
to blazes. Yet the hill’s too steep to throw
her up that way. She’s bound to roll either
way, unless we drop her right between those
trees. The wind’s right—a bit rough; we’ll
try her that way,” Hallam concluded.
They placed the spring-boards and began,
axes falling rhythmically. The wind grew
rougher as they worked/
“We’ll get her over if it. holds like this.”
Devlin wiped his face, and brushed the
cut’s clean surface with his hand. “God,
she’s a beaut!” he said.
By noon the axe-cut was complete. They
came back from camp with saw and maul
and wedges, and commenced the other side
at a level some inches higher than the open-
ing of the morning. As the saw sank in
from the surface Ilallam hammered the
first wedge in.
“She ought to go all right,” he said. You
can’t be sure —the wind’s very choppy.”
They sawed steadily, the rising noise of
tlie wind making speech difficult. Ilallam
watched the deepening cut anxiously. A sud-
den lull quietened the timber. “I hope we’ll
get her over before the wind changes,” he said.
They hammered two more wedges in, and
sawed their hardest.
A dull roar gathered far in the south.
“Now, for all you’re worth,” Hallam
shouted. They pulled desperately. The
uncut section rapidly diminished, but the
wind came on relentlessly roaring from
tree-top to tree-top as it came up the creek
with the thunder of a thousand waves. Small
branches fell in showers. The noise was
deafening. It swirled against the tree,
jambed the saw, and with a straining crackle,
sent the great trunk reeling backwards.
“Jump, for God’s sake!” Devlin yelled.
It crashed thunderingly to the bank and
rolled headlong, a shattered mass, to the
creek below. The crash of branches and the
roar of, wind filled the air
“Joe,” he yelled. “Joey, where are you?”
Fie searched desperately, and found him
flat in a tangle of fern —a branch across
his back, a trickle of blood from his hair.
Feverishly he tore at the branch and rushed
to_ the creek for water, but the other lay
still in the crumpled heap. Devlin drclpped
on his knees beside him.
“Joey, wake up! Me bonzer mate—Joey!”
In a little while he stirred. His dry
smile twisted his face an instant.
“Got me that time.” He lay and looked
at Devlin, who was mumbling broken things.
“I’m going. It’s the back somewhere, Dev.,”
he said weakly. “Dev.—best chap I ever
met!.. . . Keep anything of use.” Flis
voice trailed off. He roused himself with
a great effort. “Sixty quid under my bunk —
.savings—l was going home. Take it to the
missus. We quarrelled, you know'.” His
voice failed.
Devlin clutched his hand through a mist.
“Thanks, boy,” he whispered.
* * ij: j|c
She rose from the litter of a late break-
fast, and came forward, her wide mouth
smiling. Ever since he had seen that worn
pocket-book he had known it was she —a
sort of Nemesis, he thought.
“Hullo, Kid ! I knew you’d come back —
you all do!”
He stepped back. “You were Joe-Hallam’s
wife?” he asked.
“I was once.”
“You were once,” he repeated. “He’s dead.”
“Dead!” Annoyance darkened her face.
“The old nark—what did he want to die for?
To stop the allowance—it would be like the
old crock!”
“He was coming back.”
“Who wanted him back?”
“He’d saved sixty quid.”
Her face brightened. “That’s not too
bad—we can have a good time on that.
Kid.... Aren’t you going to kiss me? I’ve
been longing for you to come back.” She
stooped towards him. He backed against
the wall.
“Forgetting your mouth isn’t easy,” he said.
She laughed and lifted her face.
He struck her, open-handed, full on the
mouth, and watched the red trickle dowm.
Just so had the streak shown beneath Hal-
lam’s hairt
She was sobbing hysterically.
“Sixty quid. Joe’s sweat. For a woman
like you ? Hell, no!”
He lifted the kettle from the stove ring,
and dropped the notes, a scattered heap, on
the coals.
“You fool, what are you doing?”
He held her till the last note died. Then
“I’m going back,” he said:
Life's Music.
I have walked the path of the years,
I have had my good and ill;
Yet a little farther I bear
The burden still.
Touch me, you touch not a 'ghost!
The heart in me can thrill
With the music of life as a young thing,
As a young thing still.
The music of life that trills in
The many birds that bill
When Spring as a dreamer finds them
In the old world still;
The music of life in the dewdrops
The faery flowers distil
Flushed in the dawn that trembles
Up on the hill.
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.


fa
"nr/
m
A?
A
in
i
a
s
s?
1
HT,
V
«3
HAR.D'T'S
S&ARKILIJVG
ffl


Babies
thrive on
DF
it is so
nourishing andi
easy to digest
In 4 sizes
of all Chemists a, Stores
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank pile is the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Monday io Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/6.
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 10/-, or
ft la carte, minimum, 15/-
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
Jack Woods’ Ambassadors Dance
Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. 'Phone: M 4131.
John Bandon’s Lapse.
JAMES DEVANEY SHOWS THAT A POULTRY
FARMER VAN BE A HERO, TOO.
AS Elizabeth arranged her zinnias and
geraniums in the vase she thought
what a thick, ugly vase it was. She
loved dainty things. Absently she laid her
face against the flowers —a beautiful, dis-
contented face —and looked around her little
sitting-room. The old-fashioned wicker brac-
ket in the corner that had been John’s
mother’s, the hideous brio-it-brac (also
brought from bis mother’s by John, who
thought it a treasure), the gay and tawdry
ornaments on the mantelpiece, the stiff, var-
nished sideboard which always reminded her
of a cheap boarding-house.
For three years they had jarred upon the
city-bred Elizabeth, the wife of plodding John
Bandon, poultry-farmer. She was only a
household drudge now, she told herself. For
three years she had cooked and swept and
dusted here, while John pottered about out-
side among his incubators and hens, and
drove regularly into Yatala with the eggs.
She would grow old here, old and unattrac-
tive, doing these things. If only she had
met Frank Westwood earlier, before it was
too late, too difficult!
Poor old John ! Somehow one thought of
him as poor old John. Plodding John. John,
who had come home from the war practi-
cally crippled, and had settled down to his
fowlruns and shelters here in the sleepy
soldier-settlement of Edendale. Steady, faith-
ful John, without humor, but respected by
everyone as a “reliable” man, square and
straightforward. Once in anger she had
called him a clod. He loved her, she knew
that; he had proved it a hundred times in his
own blundering way, sometimes in touching
ways. But he simply did not understand
women. That was the trouble with John.
He could never understand why she should
not be a happy housewife for ever here in
this humdrum dead-end of petty spites and
scandals. Her flowers in the house, her
many little feminine touches which Frank
Westwood always noticed at once, were
wasted on John.
Not like his younger brother Matt, she
thought, whose grey corrugated-iron roof
she could just see from the window over the
brow of the hill, and who sometimes came
over of an evening for cards. Matt was as
boyish and waggish as John was inarticu-
late. John went to bed early and rose at
daybreak—“like an ox,” she had once said—
while Matt was head of half the things that
happened. John never read a book; he hal
no use for leisure at all. Matt was at every
dance and sports gathering, and seemed to
spend half his time at Yatala, the township
on the railway line three miles away.
“Cheerio, ’Lizabeth! May I come up?”
Strange that she should have been thinking
of Matt just then.
“Think of the Devil!” she called, passing
out on to the little verandah. “Hullo. Matt!
What ill-wind drives you up this way?” She
could always joke with Matt.
Matt came up the steps and followed her
inside. He was a broad-shouldered, ruddy
man in his late thirties, taller than John,
and given to bantering John’s wife. These
two got on well together.
He dropped into a wicker chair and took
off his hat. “John not back yet?” he asked.
“Oh, lie’s always late now whenever he
goes into Yatala. I suppose it’s Quirk’s new
billiard-table at the Koyal, though it’s hard
to imagine John Wait till I light the
lamp.”
“No, don’t light the lamp, old girl. Not
yet. I just dropped in for a minute.” He
began to twirl his hat round and round.
They talked about the dry weather and
Brady’s beet crop and “Dingbat” Layton’s
new baby. And then Elizabeth said:
“What is it, Matt? You’re not yourself
at all. I can see you’ve come to tell me
something. What is it?”
“Well, dash it all, I have,” he said. “Look
here, ’Lizabeth, has Frank Westwood been
again to-day?’’
Elizabeth suddenly flushed in,the growing
darkness, and her voice changed.
“Yes. Why—or why not?”
“Well, you see—l say, old girl, people are
beginning to talk.”
“They would!” she flashed. “Well?”
“You see. in a little place like this they’re
all watching one another, and then tongues
wag. I think a mighty lot of you, you know
that, and I think a mighty lot of old John.
Now', between pals, ’Lizabeth, is there any-
thing between you and Frank?”
To his astonishment she began to cry.
“Oh, I can’t go on any longer. I can’t be
just a skivvy and a man’s housekeeper here
for ever!”
“Take your own time, ’Lizabeth,” he said
kindly. “Let’s talk this thing out. Tell me
about it.”
u She recovered quickly and dabbed her eyes.
“Frank has asked me to go away w’ith him,”
she said steadily. “He’s asked me several
times. He’s just going to be shifted from
the Yatala branch to one in the city. And
—and I think I’ll go, Matt.”
“Isn’t John good to you, ’Lizabeth?”
“That’s the trouble. He is, in his way.
If only he didn’t care one way or the other
things would be easier for me. I hate to
hurt John —hate it badly.”
“Listen, ’Lizabeth. I believe Frank’s a
decent sort, and he’d be good to you, I know;
but what about John? By God, I think a
lot of old John. He ought to have got the
V.iC. that time at Pozieres if ever a man
got it. I’ll never forget the way”
“Yes, yes,” she said hastily. “It’s not
John’s fault really, I suppose. I can’t help
it, Matt.”
“He adores you, doesn’t he? Is it too
lonely here for you, or what?”
“Oh, it’s —it’s the whole thing! You
don’t understand, you men never understand.
I do respect John. I care for him in a way;
but, there, it’s no use. If only he didn’t
care so much for me, that’s the trouble. I
hate to hurt John. But I’m thirty now,
Matt, and I simply dread growing into a
haggard drudge here like—like Mrs. Layton
and Mrs. Vokes. I can’t; I can’t! And I
love Frank.”
Matt twirled his hat in silence. “I won-
der how much he knows?”
“You mean John? Oh, John doesn’t sus-
pect anything, I’m sure of that. He’ll be
the very last to see how things are, of course.
Do you think I’m a rotter, Matt?”
Matt straightened up abruptly. “Great
guns!” he exclaimed. “Now I understand
what John was coming at yesterday! No,
he hasn’t noticed anything, and, what’s more,
he’s in a bit of a fix himself, I believe. Yes,
some girl in Yatala. Fancy old John ! I
knew things were a bit strained at home here,
so I chaffed him about his long visits to
MIGHT DO SOMETHING FOR IT.
MRS. PRAVENEWE: “We’ve spent tremendous sums on Sarah’s voice.”
MISS S HEEPDYP: “Hev you evah tried lemon and honey?”
the township—only'guessing, mind you—and
then it started to come out in hints. I was
fair puzzled, but now I see. Anyhow, he
wasn’t too happy at home, now, was he?”
“A girl in the township?” said Elizabeth,
astonished.
“Listen. That’s his old car now; I’ll
leave you two to it. Well, so long, ’Lizabeth.
Jove, life is funny all right!”
She had the lamp lit and was setting the
table for tea when her husband came in.
John Bandon was shorter than his brother,
but quite as broad in the shoulder; he looked
older than his forty years. He had a strong,
rather stoic face with direct grey eyes and
a quiet, undemonstrative manner. A pale
scar along jaw and chin was a souvenir of
Suvla Bay, and he had a slight limp, acquired
later at Pozieres.
The meal passed with hardly any conver-
sation, but John Bandon had got used to
these domestic silences. Afterwards he
wiped while she washed up, and then he lit
a lire in the little sitting-room.
John sat and stared at the fire while
Elizabeth brought a chair and a book. It
was so like him, she thought, to let her
haul the heavy chair over—Frank Westwood
would have thought of that. John was
always ready to do big things for her com-
fort, she knew, but lie always forgot the
little things.
She could only pretend to read this even-
ing ; one thought kept repeating itself in her
brain. She controlled her voice and spoke:
“I believe you’ve picked up a girl at Yatala.”
He started and shuffled his feet awr-
wardly. Then he began to fish in his pockets
for pipe and tobacco.
“Well, I’m glad you’ve heard, Elizabeth.
You had to know sooner or later, I suppose.”
There w r as silence while he filled and lit his
pipe, and silence after. John was never
a talker. She spoke at last.
“Who is she?”
“You wouldn’t know her. Connie Treeves.
I used to know her years ago'.”
“How far has it gone?”
“Well, pretty far, Elizabeth; and a fair
while. I’d like to talk to you about it, and
have this thing out.”
“I can’t blame you, John. In fact”
“Wait a bit, Elizabeth. It’s been a farce
with us this long while, hasn’t it? It’s no
good living out our whole lives like this.
But—but don’t you think we could try and
make another start before it’s too late? I’d
be willing”
“No, we’ve had all that out before, John.
You haven’t been happy, and neither have
I. It has been hopeless.”
“Well, would you be willing to set me
free?”
“You want that?”
“Yes, I want that. We can’t go on like
this.”
All at once she felt sorry for him, and
guilty. And, strangely enough, a little
jealous. So John was not breaking his
heart about her, after all! At the very
moment of seeing her own difficulties cleared
away so unexpectedly, there was a sub-
conscious resentment that another woman
had replaced her. He was speaking again.
“You mus,t take what we have in the
bank; and you can have this place—just as
you like. You can make your own con-
ditions, Elizabeth.”
; “Of course you must stay on here; and
I’ll go. And I’ve no claim on the money.
I’m provided for.”
“No, you must take that, at least —I’ll
send it after you if you don’t.”
She rose. “I’ll go on Saturday, then.
Good-niglit. I’m glad—for both our sakes.”
Next day Elizabeth packed her things,
and then swept out and “did” the little
sitting-room for the last time. She had
sent a message to Frank Westwood, and was
strangely elated. As she dusted the hideous
bric-h-brac and the shiny varnished sideboard
she tried to visualise the new woman caring
for these things in the future, and probably
loving them. She would belong here, she
would suit John. Poor old John! Well,
thauk God for Connie Treevcs!
On Saturday she drove with her luggage
into the township as unobtrusively as such
a thing could be done in Edenva.le, and
took the train. There were, no. secrets there
or in Yatala-.- It was known that Frank
Westwood took the same train. Gossip and
speculation ran tlieir course.
John Bandon continued his old routine,
but the inquisitive found him hard to
approach, and when finally his wife’s divorce
down in the city was undefended and won,
Yatala buzzed with excitement, and John
was avoided whenever he drove in with his
eggs. He was beginning to look an older
man.
Matt was glad when one evening his
brother rang up and said he was coming
over after tea. There was a church social
on at the new School of Arts hall, and
Matt's wife had one of the tabled, lie guessed
that John was lonely and wanted a quiet
chat —perhaps he wanted to be reassured
about bringing Connie Treeves home.
John came iimping in and stood his hurri-
cane-lamp in the corner. They sat and
smoked before the fire 1 . They talked of old-
times and of local matters till it grew late,
and Matt was afraid his wife would return
before his brother took courage to ask the
advice he seemed to need.
It was John who came to the point at
last, after a long silence.
“Do you think she’s happy, Matt?”
“Who, Elizabeth? She’s happy all right.
She’s marrying Frank Westwood — I suppose
you’ve heard that? Dash it all, she. was
gone on him here, and he was clean gone
on her.”
“Yes, I knew all that.”
“You did, eh? Well I'm blest! But she
wouldn’t have gone in the end only for that
Treeves girl.”
“No, she wouldn’t have gone.”
“Well, buck up, old man. Go through with
it. now _ and don’t disappoint all lliese
damned yabbering women. Marry your
Connie Treeves and bring her home, and I’ll
stand by you. Who is she, anyway, and
where did you meet her?”
John rose abruptly and took his hat. He
went to the corner and then turned a
moment with the lighted hurricane-lamp in
his hand. “Matt,” he said, “I thought you'd
have known. She doesn’t exist, you fool!”
Lake Colac.
Back of the lone grey water
The flags of the spring are furled,
And piled to the wide horizon,
Smoky, and pale, and pearled,
The low bright clouds lean over
The very edge of the world.
Acres on grassy acres
In feathery blossoming,
The lovely legions of summer •
Over the upland swing,
Where high in an alien heaven
The English skylarks sing.
Over the far grey water
Summer on summer spills
The garnered gold of a thousand years
In twice ten thousand rills
Into the mirror-bowl of blue
The light of the dawn distils.
I remember the rose-flushed hour
When the sun goes slowly down
And the east is a withering flower
That fades at the back of the town,
With the ranges low on the skyline
And the ridges burnt and brown.
And over the dim grey water
The veil of the moon-mist clings
So like the ghosts of summers,
So like the wraiths of springs,
In the unremembered seasons,
In the land of far-off things.
And the shimmering robes of purple
That the long bright reaches donned,
With the trail of the young moon broken
Bike a splintered diamond.
With the high stars gathered about her
And the Warrior Hills beyond.
Where the tall red clovers riot
And to-day the swallows dart
The earth is so rich and quiet
I could lay my head on her heart,
Seeking a long forgetting
For an old wound’s wistful smart.
But the wave of the long grey water
Can never be Lethe’s wave;
She has never a fringe of. poppies
Flaunting and brief and brave;
Only a gift of rosemary
From an old grave l .
I have closed the book of my dreaming
With many a page turned down,
And far from the lone grey water
And the rifts and the reaches brown
It is only the gleam of a jewel
On Memory’s broidered gown.
victobia.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


Banking. Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £5*000,000
Capital Paid Up- and Reserves .. .. £3,369,965
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928.. £18,623,453
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. H. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E. ;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER: C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by 1 86 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock
Preference Shares .. ..
Long Term Mortgage Shares
Ordinary Shares
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£529,988
1,875,000
616,210
3,750,000
3,732,525
Australia, New
Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS IUTZiIV.
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
GRANTS DRAFTS
THE
lIIIITCn INSURANCE
Un I I E U COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
£1,000,000
Fire Insurances
[effected on all classes of
■Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
_ Shipping,
P. & 0. BRANCH SERVICE
ONE CLASS ONLY.
MONTHLY SERVICE.
To LONDON, via Durban & Capetown
To LONDON, via Colombo, Port Said
and Suez Canal
VIA SOUTH AFRICA, i VIA SUEZ CANAL.
BENDIGO Sails Jan. 22 j BARRABOOL Sails Feb. 27
Fares: To South Africa, £2l to £27
To London via Suez, £3B to £54
To London via Cape, £37 to £53
AGENTS—GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd ,
Tel. 86701-2-3. 5 O’Connell Street. Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
** should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be bbtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
South Australia’s Brightest Daily.
mite
SD
FSD
Since 1836.
Young in Thought.
Quick in Action.
Delivered by Aeroplane to Various
Country Centres.
Broadcast Your Advertising
Message throughout the
Great Central State
THE REGISTER,
which is read by all classes,
Proprietors:
W. K. THOMAS & CO., Adelaide.
ERIC N. BIRKS, N.S.W. Representative.
Telephone X. 5187.
0. N. BEDNALL, Argus Building, Melbourne.
Shipping, etc.
That Trip of Yours!
V
s
r,
Full particulars and literature of
either Excursion from the
Union Steam Ship Co.,
247 George St., Sydney.
59 William St., Melbourne, Cl.
JOINING either giant liner—
Aorangi or Niagara— at Syd-
ney, Australians can now enjoy
three delightful months at a
small excursion cost, on the blue
Pacific and in Honolulu—gem
city of Hawaii. Return fares are
only £75 and £55.
The liner also calls at Auckland,
New Zealand, and at Suva.
As a tempting alternative take
one of the fine fleet of the Union
Company, via Wellington, to
Rarotonga and Papeete, at a
return excursion cost of Only
£55 and £4O.
CANADIAN
AUSTRALASIAN
STEAMSHIP PASSAGES
Arranged by All Steamship Lines.
Choice of Any Route. Without Extra Charge.
From AUSTRALIA to
ENGLAND
FRANCE
ITALY
GERMANY
AMERICA
CANADA
MEXICO
AFRICA
JAPAN
EGYPT
INDIA
CHINA
Also attractive tours to Honolulu, Java, Colombo, Fiji,
BUSINESS TRIPS. PLEASURE CRUISES.
AUSTRALIA TO
JAVA AND SINGAPORE
VISIT JAVA (“The Garden of the East**)
Monthly sailings maintained by the popu-
lar steamers “MARELLA” and “MALA-
BAR” from Melbourne, Sydney and
Brisbane, via Queensland Ports. Torres
Strait, Darwin, etc.
■I
mj
%/(s?<
For Reservations and Information apply
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY. And all Branch Offices,
COOL OFF IN TASMANIA
A FORTNIGHT’S HOLIDAY IN TASMANIA
Including Fares, Accommodation, Local Sight-Seeing, etc., from
£24/1/-
SAILINGS TO HOBART
T.S.S. ZEALANDIA (7000 tons), DECEMBER 19 and 24,
JANUARY 2 and 9.
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU,
OCEAN HOUSE, 34 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
IK
FS
FOLLOW
THIS SIGN
TO THE
FOR
PROFITS
LEIPZIG SPRING FAIR (GERMANY),
With GREAT ENGINEERING AND BUILDING FAIRS, Commencing March 3, 1929
Profitable to the Business Man on account of the payable agencies offering.
Profitable to the Pleasure Seeker, as the beauty of Springtime in Germany, and
the wonderment of the Fair is a sight worth seeing. Advice and Letters of Intro-
duction courteously given entirely free.
Authorised Representative: LARS G. BRUNDAHL, 6 Dailey Street, Sydney. ’Phones: 84006, MW2201.
BANK. OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 181).
PAID-UP CAPITAL
RESERVE FUND .. .
RESERVE LIABILITY
ts7o
DFS
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20,900,000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
James M. Dunlop, Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Robert W. Gillespie, Esq.
Franc B. S. Falkiner, Esq.
James Burns, Esq.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; W. E. Southerden, Esq. General Manager: OSCAR LINES.
ll*»a<i Office—George Street, Sydney London Office—29 Threadneedle Street. E.C. 2.
536 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on Foreign places DIRECT, foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit Issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS
(Transhipping for outports).
GO NOW TO
HAWAII
HONOLULU
The Holiday fend of the Pacific*
This Pacific Island Playland is yours—but 13
days away—beautiful islands set in a/.ure seas
—offering you the holiday of your life this
Summer.
Will you take it?
First-class fare for the round-trip from £7.5 —*
Second-class; £ss—cheap indeed for such a
trip. Hotel Expenses (run bn the very best
First-class American .lines) are aS lb\V as 12/-
to £3 per day, with medls.
Fullest particulars from all travel and steam-
ship company offices—or from this office direct.
HAWAII TOURIST BUREAU,
Dept. 26. Box 162788, G.P.O. Sydney.
COME TO
Hawaii —Honolulu
and have the holiday of your life.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities dt moderate rates.
JRunic 12,500 tons, Jan. 22
fEuripides . . 15,000 „ Feb. 5
*Nestor 15,000 „ Mar. 15.
•i-Ceramic .. . 18,500 ~ March 26
fDemosthenes 11,500 „ April 16
*Ulysses. .. . 15,000 ~ May 13
Themistocles 11,500 ~ June 11
*First class only. tFirst and Third class.
'|“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson Ltd.
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
! Joint
| Agents
BRISBANE,via BYRON U)
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passenger!
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
fares.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/6/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart ParkerLy!i'"S2'
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars appIyHUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
If any illustration in Tiie Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.


DF
MISS REXEE KAY,
the Beautiful and
Talented Violinist,
who appeared in “Rio
Rita,” is a Rexona
Girl, and writes as fol-
lows: “I have always
used Rexona Soap for
my skin and hair, and
find it absolutely the
best.
After cleaning off
make-up, a wash with
Rexona Soap is very
refreshing.”
Girls! The Use of Rexona Soap
Ensures Beauty to Sfin and Hair
That natural beauty of skin and hair which cannot be imitated can be obtained by regular
us e of Rexona Skin and Facial Soap. Ordinary toilet soaps do not assert this influence.
Many of them contain free alkali, which tends to dry the skin and destroy its delicate texture.
Even the best of such soaps can only cleanse—they cannot heal and protect the skin.
Rexona Soap contains the same soothing, healing antiseptic balms as Rexona the Rapid
Healer, the value of which in the treatment of skin affections is known throughout the
world.
Simply use Rexona Skin and Facial Soap regularly once or twice a day and see if it does
not quickly soothe and cleanse the pores, lessen the tendency to pimples, and leave the com-
plexion clear, fresh and velvety.
Rexona
Soap
7 or J4ejalik
and
Beauty
m
If
TO
vm
Vo*
M MW
y//f rtVA^A^O
F *o^
SV»s\^
po»'^
i-
Before Booking Your
Passage
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
IN CO-OPERATION WITH
SD
WAGONS-LITS CO.
The only Firm with permanent
offices all over the World to
give service and assistance to
Travellers.
The accredited passenger agents for
all Lines, they are able to give unbiassed
information and guidance in the selec-
tion of route and steamer.
Plans of all vessels are on file for
inspection, and intending passengers
may select their own accommodation.
By booking through Cooks, whether
travelling first, second or third clas3,
no extra charge is made, and pas-
sengers obtain advantages which can-
not be offered by any other travel
organisation.
TO EUROPE, 1929.
Berthing plans are now open, and to
ensure comfort on the journey intend-
ing travellers are recommended to
apply at once for accommodation.
Sailing Lists , Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE:
49a Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY*
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building,
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Buildir.f?
(Next G.P.0.).
whatever he chose to do in the new life.
Musk Ridge ensured Ann Martin the com-
fort he had always wished for her. He was
content to leave it at that.
In the midst of his preparations Jasper
was called upon to advise Alber r . Beaument.
Old Amos had been ailing for some weeks.
He was sour, suspicious and growingly quar-
relsome. With the gently-restraining influ-
ence of Lois removed, he gave full rein
to his strange animosity ’against his son.
This culminated in a bitter scene between
the two, in which Albert was assured finally
of complete disinheritance. It was rumored
that Miss Sprott, with the daring of utter
disgust, had called old Amos a filthy,
money-muddled beast, without even the
beginnings of a soul.
“Amy did lose her temper,” Albert con-
fessed hopelessly to Jasper. His large, cow-
like face was pathetically vacant, and his
eyes were red-rimmed and swollen-lidded.
“Such big words! But I don’t care. He
deserved every one of them.”
“I wish to God,” Jasper said, furious
with such spiritless conduct, “that you’d
tell your father to go to Hell and be done
with it. Honest, I don’t know why you
haven’t murdered him. I bet I’d have done
it long ago.”
Albert said gently: “He’s a sick man,
Jasper. You can’t be hard on a sick man.
And, anyhow, I expect he thinks he’s doing
right.”
Jasper gestured with his hands as though
imploring patience of the gods.
“You’re the queerest chap, Alberti
You’re either the biggest fool that ever
lived or the greatest saint. I’d like to
shake you till your teeth fell cut.”
Albert was silent. He sat w r ith a fixed
smile, aimlessly examining the knuckles of
his big, sprawling hands. A picture of
patient, damnable, Christ-like resignation.
Jasper could have cried. Something
prompted him to exclaim:
“I wonder how you do it—l often won-
der. But I don’t wonder why Lois loves
you so dearly.”
Albert’s face lit at the name. His mouth
trembled. He said: “Dear old Lois! Isn't
it fine, Jasper, the happy time she’s
having?”
Jasper said: “I give you up! Honest, I
do. You’ve got me beaten. You never
think of yourself at all. Why don’t you
start in at it? Why don’t you? Life
tramples all over you, and you don’t seem
to care.”
“It’s no use caring,” Albert said.
There was something agonised in the sud-
den, swift contraction of his plodding fea-
tures.
Jasper made use of the happening to
introduce to his aunt the subject of his
near departure.
“And I might be able to help Albert,
too,” he said. “If I get a start in business
right away, twelve months should decide
how things are shaping. You like Albert,
don’t you, Aunt?”
“He’s well enough,” said Ann Martin in
her role of local Lady Bountiful. But the
real Ann emerged almost instantaneously
from recess with clumsy speech and honest,
kindly looks. “I like him very much. I
always did. The poor man—with no bowels
for harm in him, and a mind as lame as
my own leg. Of course, you’ll need him
with you when you’ve your business in
Melbourne.”
“Of course,” Jasper agreed, elated a+ this
evidence of her compliance. “I’ll be get-
ting you help here right away. I’d planned
to leave next month.”
“I shall go up to town to see you quite
a lot,” said his aunt with placid importance.
“In the winter season, I expect. I must find
you a wife, Jaspie.”
CHAPTER XVI.
Cora.
Jasper was a little disappointed by Cora’s
attitude when told of his decision. She
seemed scarcely to be listening, as though
what he might be at was beyond any con-
cern of hers. For some days her manner
had been abstracted and sullen. There was
a pinched look about her face. She had
lost her animation.
“Cora looks sick,” he said to Tod a day
or two later.
Tod gave him a curious glance. “Think
so?”
“Well, she’s pale and mopey,” he said
apologetically. “In a kind of way. Not
like herself.”
“Damn that Roughton!” Tod suddenly
exploded. He turned crafty, vicious eyes
on Jasper’s astonishment. “I’d like to
break his neck!”
“Why? He’s gone away, though, hasn’t
he?”
“I should say he had! By God, he showed
sense!”
“You mean Cora’s fond of him?” Jasper
was annoyed at his own obtuseness. That,
of course, explained the girl’s obvious dis-
tress. Very likely she had quarrelled with
the man and -was regretting it when too late.
‘‘l ought to have thought of that.”
Tod exploded. “Fond of him! She
hates the name of him. Cripes!”
“Well, then?”
“You mean to say” Tod began. But
he checked himself abruptly. The crafti-
ness in his eyes deepened as he stared at
Jasper. He said with twitching lips: “Well,
it’s pretty tough on any girl, isn’t it, when
—when things don’t come off, eh? She
thought, Roughton was gone on her, I ex-
pect. But you never know what’s in a
woman’s mind.”
“Poor Cora,” Jasper said, genuinely sorry.
Tod’s laugh was perilously akin to a sneer.
“Cripes, Jasper I Well, look here, you’ll
be along home on Saturday night, eh? The
girls are having a bit of a dance again.”
“I’ll be glad. It’ll be my last chance,
Tod. I’m leaving Guruwa next week, you
know.”
“So am I,” Tod declared viciously. “As
soon as I can screw a few quid out of the
old man you’ll find me right on the job.
This is no life for a man. I got a chance
to carry the bag at the ponies. Bennie
Harker knows one of the books, and he’s
going to put me through to him when I’m
ready. And you can bet it won’t be long
either.”
Tod winked again as he moved away.
The moonlight was extraordinarily bril-
liant. As Jasper made his way across the
paddocks to Fernhill, he was conscious of
an unusual animation. There was something
magical in the dancing of shadowed tree-
tops against the soft, milky sky, the clouds
that foamed into the mellow horizon, the
faint, delectable scent from the spreading
pastures. They appeared more lovely than
he had ever before suspected, as though
the night had summoned all its cunning to
join his mood. In three days more, Jasper
reflected eagerly, Guruwa would be a thing
of the past as affecting his life and ambi-
tions. He was not to be lured into sentimen-
tal regret by this sudden, tender exhilara-
of the eucalypted night. He remembered
only that he was to leave behind him the
burden of stubborn bushland, the everlast-
ing, heart-breaking manual labor, the ach-
ing frosts and the snake-like venom of
the crouching bracken-fern. He spurned
the bracken with his foot as he passed,
smiling his hatred of it.
The strains of a concertina came softly
over the still air. Tod, wonderfully arrayed
in a striped shirt, a suit of loud check and
a spotted necktie, with hair plastered over
his bullet skull, and reeking of cheap scent,
beckoned from behind him. .He called in a
hoarse whisper:
“You’re just in time, Jasper. What say
to a spot?”
Jasper’s rare mood could find no fault
with the suggestion. He grinned and said:
“Well, I don’t know—I might as well, seeing
it’s the last time.”
He joined the little furtive group that
clustered in the shadows, his nose wrinkling
at the unaccustomed odor of spilling wine.
The stuff gripped his throat, and he choked
a little, and laughed when the others
laughed. The wine was sweet and warm,
and his veins warmed pleasantly.
A voice, friendly and moon-ridden,
offered: “Just a li’l taste again, all round,
before we go in.”
Jasper managed better the second time.
The wine bit gaily at his excitement. He
began to listen to the music and the
rhythm of stamping feet. It was good to
feel as he did—something to look back upon
when he was among strangers in the city; a
kind of echo, it would be, of the jollity
crowning the hard years behind. He wanted
to relax immensely, defyingly; to let his
mind stretch itself against the long cramp
of its sober plotting, and his body take its
farewell of work-bound muscles. Presently
he was dancing; sliding himself this way and
that, and nodding happily in time to the
music. His partner was a thin, dark-faced
girl from the township. Her name was Alice
Bjornsen, daughter of the Swede foreman
at the mills. She was lively, full of laughter;
quite unlike her stolid, square-headed
flaxen mother. They got on famously to-
gether.
Cora was dancing with Bennie Harker.
Jasper caught her eyes fixed on him more
than once in a queerly speculative
way, as if she wondered at his unusual
vim and self-possession. He grinned a
greeting over Alice’s bobbing head, and
was pleased when Cora smiled back in quite
her old, intimate way.
It was not for some time that he found
a chance to talk to her. Once he started
to do so and Tod intercepted him mys-
teriously. Tod was having quite a terrific
time, regardless of the bent brows of old
man Harris, who was present as an on-
looker only from the persuasions of his
wife. Tod overcame Jasper’s half-reluc-
tance, and piloted him to where the wine
was hidden. He was flushed and talkative
when he re-entered the barn. Cora noticed
it at once. She said, almost approvingly:
“Why, Jasper, if you haven’t been drink-
ing!”
“Not drinking—just a few drinks. Might’s
well have decent time—going away in a few
days, Cora.”
She eyed him narrowly.
“Aren’t you lucky!” She lifted her bare
arms in a sort of exasperation. “I’d give
anything to get away from this hole. I
hate it.”
Jasper smiled foolishly on the passing
couples. He had a complacent thought of
his own enterprise. They were like sheen,
these others; all herded together by lack
of ambition, and fenced around with the.
ferns and mud and frosts of Guruwa;
stupidly content to go on bleating all their
lives. He wasn’t one of them any longer;
not he! He was done with the lot of it,
thank God!
His hand was touched, and he turned back
to Cora. She was heated from her dancing:
her face moist and shining, and her dark
red hair flattened like a wet flame on her
temples. Her eyes seemed to cower under
their heavy lids.
“You’ll be glad enough to go!”
(Continued on neatf page.)


SUMMER SKIN TROUBLES!
Sunburn, Rashes, Prickly Heat,
Eczema, Sore Feet, Insect Bites, etc.
✓V'
Ja
Y
X
AT*
r,
“Last summer I had a frightful time
with prickly-heat,” nays Miss E. Cook,
Kennedy-terrace, Ithica, Brisbane. “The
. irritation was so persistent that I could
not keep my hands from the itchy sur-
faces; and the more I scratched the worse
the places became. Weeping eczema broke
out and my torture was almost unbear-
able.
“On a friend’s advice I applied Zam-
Buk to my raw skin and its soothing
effect was surprising. Zam-Buk quickly
dried up all discharge and covered the
tender parts with new, healthy skin. I
kept on using Zam-Buk unti I was com-
pletely clear of the awful fiery eruptions.”
IF your skin is chafed, rashy or irritated by wind or
* sun, or poisoned by insect bites, you can always
rely upon Zam-Buk to quickly soothe and heal.
Being a highly-refined herbal balm, Zam-Buk
is able to soak through the tiny pores of the skin
and exert a purifying influence on the whole of the
underlying tissues.
With its germ-killing property Zam-Buk eradi-
cates disease like no other preparation, and is at the
same time most soothing. Zam-Buk is a real skin-
grower.
A handy box of this ever-ready healer is also
an excellent first-aid for cuts, bruises, burns, sprains,
etc.
Zam-Buk Balm, 1/6 a box or 3/6 family she; Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap, 1/- a tablet
or 2/10 box of three, of Chemists and Stores everywhere
YOU CAN HEAL THEM ALL WITH
FSD
“Not glad loosh m’ friends, though,” said
Jasper, and was horrified at the echo of his
slurring speech. He said, in a kind of panic,
speaking with immense precision: “Let’s
dance, Cora?”
She shook her head. “No, I’m too hot.”
She stood up abruptly. “I left my fan at
the house. I’m going to get it. But you
needn’t come, unless you want to.”
“Of course I’ll come.”
They went up the path in the moonlight,
Cora’s hand in the crook of his arm. The
contact of her body brought him a return
of the old shy bewilderment. His heart
began to thump a little, and his thought
became pleasantly confused.
“It’s rotten you’re going, Jasper. We’ll
all miss you. But I expect you’ll soon forget
us.”
“I won’t.”
Cora said softly: “I couldn’t blame yocp
With all the pretty girls you’ll meet.”
“That’s silly,” Jasper answered in defence.
But the imputation pleased the vanity of
his mood. It seemed quite natural that
Cora should press closer to him. He felt
tenderly protective all at once, and a little
guilty that he had never before understood
this affection in her nature.
. The house was sunk in shadow, deserted.
Everyone was down at the barn, dancing
or looking on. Cora slipped ahead along
the passage to the door of her bedroom.
She said, a little breathlessly: “I won’t be
a minute.”
Jasper waited, leaning against the passage
wall. His head throbbed a little. The con-
certina in the barn came very faintly to his
ears above the silence.
Cora called suddenly: “I can’t find my fan
anywhere. And Rose must have taken the
candle.. Have you any matches, Jasper?
1 can’t find a single thing.”
“I’ve —I’ve got some, I think. Shall
1”....
“Yes, bring them in. I wish Rose wasn’l
so careless. Let me have them.”
Jasper stood by the window, fumbling in
his pockets. Cora was quite close to him.
Her waiting hand came out of the semi-
darkness to stumble against his hot face.
She was laughing, in a tremulous, throatv,
whispering way, at his slowness. Suddenly
he found that he was trembling. The little
wisping moonbeams seemed to run together
to a whiteness in his brain.
He said hoarsely: “I’ve got them some-
where. I know I’ve got some.”
Their hands came together.
Tod, making unsteady search for some-
thing of his own, surprised them as they
came from Cora’s room. He raised his
lighted candle to peer at them with an in-
credulous oath.
“God’s truth! Now it’s Jasper, is it?
Wasn’t the other enough?”
Cora screamed at him: “Hold your
tongue, you fool. We’re going to be married. ’
“Married? Well, cripes!”
“Yes, married.”
Jasper, very white and set and sober,
made no movement when Cora flung an arm
about his neck. They were both staring at
him: Tod with his jaw slack and an ugli-
ness in his blinking eyes; Cora wetting her
bright lips, her expression hard, watchful,
as though keyed against his denial.
“Oh well, damn it, then I guess that’s
all right,” Tod spluttered.
Jasper said steadily: “Of course. We’ll
be married as soon as Cora can get ready.”
Cora laughed jerkily. She stood clinging
to Jasper.
There was a curious buzzing at Jasper’s
ears. He began to listen sickishly: “Poor
Mary is a-weeping, a-weeping”. . ..
(To be continued .)
Romance.
There once was a lover, and he said to his
fair,
“There really isn't anybody nicer!”
And she stroked his hair, and she said, “I
declare,
Since you say it’s so, my dear,
I am very pleased to hear
That nobody is more beautiful than I, sir.”
So he kissed her here, and he kissed her
there,
For he was her lover and she w r as his fair.
Then lie said, “I’ve a song, I've a pretty,
pretty song—
There really isn’t any song nicer.
It's a sweet little song, but it’s very, very
long.”
Yet she said, “My dearest dear,
Your voice is sweet to hear,
And nobody knows this better, sir, than I,
sir,
So sing your song if it isn’t bad or wrong.”
And he kissed her again, and he sang her
this song:
There, once was a lover and hr, said to his
fair,
“There really isn’t anybody nicer.”
And she stroked his hair, and she said, “I
declare.
Wince you say it’s so, my dear,
I am very pleased to hear
That nobody is more beautiful than I, sir.”
Wo he kissed her lure, and he kissed her
there,
For he was her lover, and she was his fair.
Now, the lover grew a-weary of singing to his
fair,
“There really isn’t, anybody nicer,”
For he said, “ I’m aware she is very, very
fair,
Hut Fm sure there must be
One that's better still than she
Whom a song or smile or kiss will buy,
sir;
And he found another, and he kissed her
where
A lover loves kissing his lady fair.
Then he said. “I’ve a song, I’ve a pretty,
pretty song —
There really isn't any song nicer.
It’s a sweet little song, hut it’s very, very
long’’
Yet she said, “My dearest dear,
Your voice is sweet to hear,
And nobody knows this better, sir, than I,
sir;
Ho sing your so y, if it isn’t had or wrong.”
And he kissed her again, and he sang this
song.
“Bravo!” said the lady, “I like your song—
I’ve never heard a song that was nicer;
Yet you said it would be so very, very long.”
“Why, he sang,’’ her lover cried,
“On and on until he died
To ev’ry pretty other, to entice her!”
“Oh dear !’’ she sighed, “that was very, very
wrong,
And I don’t like the moral of your wicked,
wicked song.”
Then she frowned, did the lady; but she
still looked him fair
(There really wasn’t anybody nicer) ;
And she said, “I hope that you will not
repeat this air!”
So her lover said, “Don’t fear,
None can equal you,,my dear.
You know it, and I think I am still wiser.”
But he smiled to himself, as he kissed her
where
A lover loves kissing his lady fair.
N.SAV.
RONALD McQUATC.
The House on “The Rocks .”*
Aloof, beside a busy street
Where silence seldom reigns,
Its stone front stained by rain and heat,
The old house still remains.
No more its high-set windows glow
With candlelight; no more
Clay song and shout and laugfiter flow
From out its wide-flung door.
Within its garden stand two trees,
A poplar and an oak;
’Tis peopled now 7 with memories,
And not with happy folk.
While men pass fleet of foot outside,
Or slow of pace go by,
From empty room to room they glide,
These memories quaint and shy.
Unhurried by life’s stress and stir,
From room to room they pass—
Grave citizen, tall officer,
Proud dame and golden lass.
Ghost-candles, glowing soft and warm,
A mellow light throw down
On broadcloth and on uniform
And rich brocaded gown.
Once on a time within this house,
Eyes bright and spirits bright.
Mon lifted song in wild carouse.
Wine-drinking through the niglu
And here, with round arms white as milk,
Fair forms and faces fair,
Tripped damsels dressed in creamy silk,
Ked roses in their hair.
Here, here of old. they came to dance,
White candles hung above;
Here lovers, linked by sweet romance,
Forgot all else'but love.
She proud and cold, he passionate,
Upon that night of yore,
Thus stood until the hours grew late—
Then parted evermore.
At dawn down-harbor, seaward-set,
He turned his ship’s bluff bow;
What seas lie sailed, what doom he met,
No voice can tell us now.
Set backward from the busy street,
Hid by its screening trees,
The old house stands, and sad and sweet
Are its grey memories.
Since from its windows lad and lass
Stood gazing, side by side,
Time oft and oft has turned his glass,
And many men have died.
Now whistles sound and hucksters cry
And merry children romp,
Where old-time Governors rode by
With gold and scarlet pomp.
A cedar stair against one wall
Uplifts its polished flight,
And there, ’tis said, a lady tall
And lovely stood one night.
With eyes that coldest azure were
She paused, half-turned, at ease;
Down-gazing on a mariner
New-come from overseas.
With words that seemed to burn his mouth,
Hands pleading, upward thrown,
He told of how he'd sailed far south
To make her his alone.
With tresses coiled, in blue arrayed,
Tall-figured, supple, slim,
One hand upon the balustrade,
Ilalf-turned she scoffed at him.
As thus he prayed her long ago
His life, his ship, to share,
Warm fell the still soft candle-glow
Upon the cedar stair.
With dusty rooms and cobwebbed hall
It waits the wrecker’s hands;
Around about all changed is all.
Age-worn, rain-stained, it stands.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
*The Rocks are the high ground overlooking Sydney
Cove, where Australia was cradled. The area was for
a few brief years the fashionable quarter of early
Sydney—so far as it had a fashionable quarter.
Later it became one of the roughest parts of the
city.


FS
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in Jtock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Rooldet BM 414.
THE WESTiNGiIOUSE BRAKE GO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents-—HOJLMXGS JC CHIKCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Ollue—o3-107 'Vi'eat hers ton Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Victorian Office—“ Chancery 1 louse/ 1 485 Oourke Street, Melbourne
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, S IITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
THE CREDIT OF TASMANIA
is undoubted and
THE MERCURY
is
A CREDIT TO TASMANIA
The “Mercury” is the only Metropolitan News-
paper in the State. Its news services, articles
and typography are unexcelled in Australia.
THE MERCURY
Covers the Whole State,
and-its circulation greatly exceeds the combined
figures of the other dailies in Tasmania.
Delivered hy fast motor-cars, it reaches. Laun-
ceston (121 miles), Deloraine (140 miles) and
all intermediate towns before breakfast.
ESTABLISHED 1854. PRICE Hd.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE*, F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 22S
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: “Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
The Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South Australia,
and is Read by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation in
Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny of Net Sales
invited.
ALL THE NEWS AND ALL THE
ADVERTISEMENTS.
in 1927 average size of "THE ADVERTISER,”
26 pages of 8 columns (each 24} inch deep).
Space occupied by advertisements averaged
16} pages daily, or a Total of
988,712 INCHES IN THE YEAR.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agances of
Messrs. Gordon and Gotch, price lid.
Head Offices:
J. L. Bonython & Co.,
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. L. WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone MA 3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4..
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
Is logically the first big daily to select in Queensland for any advertising
campaign. If gets results!
It is always bright and is progressive to a degree.
And its net circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to
be greater than that of any other daily in Queensland. Its companion
journal is
THE SUNDAY MAIL
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine. These two journals
give a “cover” in Queensland that is second to none. For rates and
other particulars, please apply to: —
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE,
Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Restful, quiet and cool —open to the Summer Sea Breezes. Delightfully situated with Private
Beach and Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service.
■ Spacious Grounds and Garage Accommodation.
Summer Tariff from 5 guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS—DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
RESERVATIONS: Y 3012 (4 lines).
Weak and depressed,
Assailed by stomach ills,
Recruit your strength
By taking
DF
SDF
TWO AT NIGHT
PUT YOU RIGHT
Do you feel weak, languid, despond-
ent, thoroughly out-of-sorts and fit
for nothing ? Get a box of Cockle’s
Pills. As a tonic restorative they are
simply ..wonderful. Take two pills at
bedtime and in the morning you will
wake up keen for breakfast, with a
clear head, cheery spirits and more
life and energy than you have had
for a long time. Be sure to try them.
Small pill, easy to take. Of all
chemists and stores 1/6 a box.
JAMES COCKLE & CO., LTD., LONDON;
CONSTIPATION
When you’re “feeling fit” and “in the pink” you will have
noticed perhaps that your skin is free from all unsightly
blotches and pimples, and your eyes are bright and clear.
Dull eyes and discoloured complexion, betray bad health.
They tell others that you are constipated. Now con-
stipation is one of the evils of civilisation and is the source
of many ills from which you suffer. From it arise headaches,
biliousness, indigestion and if neglected, will probably lead to
much more serious trouble.
The finest thing you can do is to take Beecham’s Pills—the
favourite corrective medicine for these troubles. Purely veget-
able—they never fail to do what
they are asked, and bring back the
sparkle of health.
Start to-day—taking the pills as
directed. You will quickly feel the
benefits.
Pirn
Worth a
Guinea a Box .
\
Beechams are the Pills lhal
conquer Constipation—they
are the remedy for Stomach
disorders and sluggish liver
—they relieve Headache,
Bili ousness. Dyspepsia,
Flatulence and Indigestion,
SD
&
$
the Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, Where the majority of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forginv
ahead.
w.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from:
R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd., Mr. V. W. Margetts, Mr. W. G. Dougan,
73-75 Patterson Street,
122 Flinders Street,
Melbourne.
701 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should know, from kitchen to
drawing-room, from the cradle to old age.
FREE PATTERN EVERY WEEK.
It is the most remarkable Threepennyworth ever printed.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR,”
PUBLISHED EVERY TUESDAY,
Price 3d.
X
e
6)
&
s e
A*
s®
" e ;
9
>2
M 3" .*1
V#
e<M»
~• $r
e


:n
m
r
A’#''.,
/
V:
‘ - \#
m
1
p| I I: •;
fe &£ ‘;\v. v # ;.: . _
'\*.\ •’.v. •v.••v. •• *.V* •. v. •r. ••■.•••.■.•••. V< •;•• svA *VvV
i
m
m
ii
§n§
in
-A;* *
- ,i»--
yyy
m
*3?
II
r-.v-iW
i/"
A
/ 3*'
A d
II
ii
>A F\
y • /
H
IBS
\;A ' %
vy,
;#5
m
Him
m
flfl
wm.il*.A
■l*l
m 1
A
*
it
••
Sfe. fc.-V'thi
Wil
SB
IS
i
&g?£2
ii
ii
sm
/
&S3?A
sss
! -
V*Ki>
Saw??
mss
r y-
s
w
—. ■ld
■"’■*■■■£rrr« j v .
> . - '«S&' <- v« s -;
■SSSISII
i v
- ffl " - - ' T-' 'JT i‘>
v-.
~>-■■■'
> , "yyy
' Alvs»J
m-
a
sa&3«s!
SsttrtwS
STYLE—Paris for Clothes;
Chrysler for Cars
W. 'N*
i.
IT is not too much to say that
even Chrysler has never found
a parallel to the admiration and
enthusiasm which has greeted the
new Chryslers---‘ 75 ’ and ‘65.’
The public, ever eager to reward
originality and merit, has welcomed
them wholeheartedly as the fore-
runners of an entirely new and vastly
superior motor-car style, just as it
welcomes enthusiastically the dictum
of Paris in matters of clothes.
Everywhere it applauds Chrysler’s
striking new style. It acclaims
Chrysler’s splendid new vitality of
performance. It commends each
and every one of the countless
betterments of Chrysler’s artistic
and mechanistic design.
You should see this epochal
development. You should ride in
and drive the new Chrysler—
whether ‘7s’ or ‘6s’—to appre-
ciate just how emphatically Chrysler
again has jolted outworn traditions in
appearance, performance and value.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales: Larke, Neave & Carter, Ltd-, William Street, Sydney.
Victoria Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Collins Street, Melbourne.
Queensland Ward Motors, Limited, Wickham Street, Brisbane.
South Australia . . O. T. Rodda Motors, Ltd., Flinders Street, Adelaide.
West Australia .... William Attwood, 299-301 Murray Street, Perth.
Tasmania Distributors Pty., Ltd., 162 Collins Street, Hobart.
New Zealand: Todd Motor Company, 97 Courtenay Place, Wellington.
New Guinea . W. R. Carpenter & Co., Ltd., Rabaul.
