

m
M
Q
h
n
n
<m>
A
OVAL - HEAVYWEIGHTS
V
1 -r
Wk
, ■:
:! ■ i
II
111
111
Tins of 25 fts
Tins of 50 2'9
The Bulletin
GsiecUr /law Qimea, /itovy, aamaji
Vol. 50.—N0. 2581.
w
thrice 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, Tv.S.W.. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a “Newspaper.


TNIE 1929 LIBRARY CATALOGUE is
A now ready, and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCIv’S IBOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Facile princeps, quite easily first
To ease the distress of “the ’flu” accurst;
Facile princeps for coughs and for colds,
Or when bronchitis it's anguish unfolds;
Facile princeps for croup or catarrh,
Checking the symptoms before they go far;
Facile princeps, prompt, soothing and sure,
Unrivalled Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—-Apvf.
SknwJ°>rt“
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON! ;
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your Neiv Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney RuT/eetin.
My Fame
My Address . . .
S.B
iLYSAGHT
i: : :
O
3
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized Iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
HW 3
NOW READY—POST FREE
pQ& tC %t
Ctso? QlJt
I O
fCfc
& GTi
CPKS
3
F. W. PREECE & SONS,
34 King William St., Adelaide
FIRST ISSUE NOW READY.
DESIDERATA
A GUIDE TO GOOD EOOKS.
Two shillings per annum, post free
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY by
F. W. PREECE & SONS,
34 KING WILLIAM STREET, ADELAIDE.'
Does Much
For Hair And Skin
For promoting and maintain-
ing beauty of skin and hair Cuti-
cura Soap and Ointment are
unexcelled. The Soap is pure and
cleansing, ideal for every-day use,
while the Ointment is soothing
and healing to irritations which,
if neglected, might become
serious.
Soap Is., Talcum ls.3d. t Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
Cutieura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
Cutieura
Winner Last Year
J. R. Jeffrey, Kograrah. N.S.W.
This may be your
Lucky Year!
DON’T DELAY
Buy your
TICKET
To-day
■
ND
4400
KD
€132
OWLOtheffin
Drawn 16th NOV., 1929
Tickets f/• obtainable
from Local Agent
or direct from
A. W. YAGER, MIC
Secretary,
Trades Had
Sydney
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
.
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Contain no cocaine or other poisonous drug. Suited for old and young. For Coughs,
Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis, Influenza.
"tOKJU. «KHTTlins
tV?.
ON
What the Medical World says:—The Lancet :
‘Proved to be as effective bactericidallv as is
creosote.” THIS REPORT FROM THE “LAN-
CET” LABORATORY IS UNDOUBTED EVIDENCE
of the VALUE OF EUMENTHOL JUJUBES as an
ANTISEPTIC.
I/O a Tin.
Sold at Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers; or
Post Free from the Sole Manufacturers —
Hudson’s Eumenthol Co. Ltd., Sydney,
w receipt ui 1/G in stamps of any Proviso*
The Red Page
All Quiet
Beside All Quiet on the Western Front,
by Erich Maria Remarque (Putnam; Roy-
Iroft Library, Sydney), ordinary best-sellers
>.fe mere squibs. First published early this
year in Germany, its sales rocketed to
quarter of a million in a few weeks. Trans-
lated by ex-Sydney High School boy and
Rhodes Scholar A. W. Wheen, M.C., M.M.,
of the A.1.F., the book’s sales in England
reached 80,000 in the first six weeks; and
in Australia no book has sold so briskly
for years. Exactly why it has stirred this
great interest is an open question. It has
no plot in the accepted sense; it is any-
thing but happy; it is not salacious nor
pornographic; it is repulsive in places
almost to the point of being emetic litera-
ture; it has no hero and no heroine. One
feels that it is read for one of three
reasons: (a) because it is a great literary
achievement and the public knows a great
thing when it sees one; (b) because it
holds the vcar as no other book holds it,
and the public had long waited to know
what the war was really ’like; and (c)
because in about every other sentence it
speaks of bodily functions and uses terms
of the coarsest speech that are not ordi-
narily spoken at all or used except sneak-
ingly.
This coarseness is so important a part of
the book that it demands special examina-
tion. It is used deliberately; is part of the
author’s method. He has written his book
with the clear purpose of exposing how
horrible modern warfare can be. It is
not a thing that calls for subtle methods;
it is useless to hold the nose and trip dain-
tily by corpses—better to stand and watch
the rats fattening on them. And so he
lays the filth on with a trowel. A woman
cannot even visit her husband in hospital
without her child having dirtied its napkin.
The author goes for effect in other ways,
too. A couple of butterflies that happen
into Ncr Man’s Land on a sector where
there isn't a leaf or blade of grass for
miles must alight on the teeth of a skull.
The story begins about 1915, yet a pair of
boots that had had some wear then are
still being handed on. after practically con-
tinuous life in the trenches, in 1918. Then
there is the dying man in No Man’s Land
who for two days is searched for without
success. He “must be lying on his belly
and unable to turn over,” for “it is only
when a man has his mouth close to the
ground that it is impossible to gauge the
direction of his cry.” Various ones go out
looking for him; gradually his cry grows
hoarser. On the second day the calls are
fainter; “that will be because his lips and
mouth have become dry.” The company
commander promises special leave to any-
one who finds him; two even go out in
the afternoon looking for him. Still “it
is easy to understand what he cries.” At
first he cries only for help; then “he talks
with his wife and his children. We often
detect the name Elise. To-day he merely
we'-'ps. By evening the voice dwindles to
a croaking. But it persists still through
the whole night.” And so on till even
the “last gurgling rattle” (a frequent music,
this) is heard. Yet the man who was so
close could not be found! One sees the
purpose of these and a score of like details,
and, seeing, one wishes all the more that
closer attention had been given to proba-
bility.
This sacrifice of truth for effect, though
one comes on it every now and again, is not,
however, great enough to be called a
defect; it is at most a blemish on a great
piece of literature. In minor matters,
chiefly as to character, the account is
peculiarly German; in its broad outline it
is horribly true of the life lived by every
infantryman who went through a few
months of France. It is pure infantry; no
other unit lived quite the same life. Also,
it. is the war of the private—the one who
suffered and endured most both in and out
of the line. The book has not the breadth
of “Sergeant Grischa,” but it gets closer
to the heart. It gives the crude, filthy
details of the infantry private’s life, and
one is left to fill in the other details.
Descriptions of barrages and charges are
extraordinary faithful—so faithful that the
book might be dangerous reading for the
shell-shocked Digger, just as it would be
cruel reading to the mother who had lost
sons in the war. Wonderfully convincing,
too, are the scenes in the narrator’s home
when he is on leave, and the terrible de-
scription of the Russian prisoners’ camp,
one of the greatest treatments of the. hor-
rible in all literature; beside it Maupassant’s
special effort to portray that element is
positively ansemic.
Scores have tried to awaken a horror
of war and failed; Remarque, avoiding
their artificial methods, and setting down an
account of the common soldier’s life, has
brilliantly succeeded. “All Quiet on the
Western Front” is much more than the
war book of the moment; it is the book of
the day. Also, it is the infantryman’s
revenge upon the world.
A Flight into Order.
When one comes to Europe one sees im-
mediately that the modern chaotic idiom
has never captured Australia, not because
Australia is so far from the centres of
expression that she hears little of the move-
ments—a popular but obvious fallacy—but
because she is psychologically too simple
and too highly energised to understand
them. By that I don’t mean that she is
either too wise or too foolish to become
ecstatic over the fantastic uglinesses which
have been perpetrated here during the last
decade or so, but only that these things
belong to an area of time and mental weari-
ness she has never entered. Compared with
Europe, Australia is mentally on the other
side of Plato—in the unstressful golden age
of the Theocreton idylls.
Europe at the moment has a hysteria for
order which is as profoundly based as the old
hysteria for disorder, and springs from exactly
the same condition of mind. “Peace, peace!
Give us peace!” says the intellectual. Any-
thing to escape the restless wash of energy
in the spirit. Let us have peace at any
price. And the easiest way to get peace, of
course, is to crust the mincl in a convention.
A few years ago he was saying “Let us try
to whip our spirits out of this stagnant
darkness, this void of weariness. Let u§
whip our souls back into the light with
the brutal flail of Congo savagery.” Each
movement tries to escape this new horror
of subtly-complicated nerves rather than
face it bravely.
lo those who hope for the appearance
of a dynamic mind the latest movement is
even more depressing than the old. The
first, at least, involved a revolt, and
although it was usually a quite futile revolt
it did at least mean action. There always
was a vague possibility that the tumult
would turn up a big mind. The sudden
relapse into staticism cannot possibly be
productive.
Tor it is static order frozen over the mind
and spirit rather than the fluid order, the
elastic unity which grows out of mind itself
wheii mind is working at its highest force
of individual gusto—as in Athens and the
Renaissance, for example. It is complete
suspension of all passion the intellectuals
w’ant to achieve now. They scream neuro-
tically for rest.
The new movement does not lead us
nearer than the old to beauty of form!
The tortured nightmares of Primitivism
were usually at least amusing, as their most
successful originators intelligently realised
with profound contempt for their intense
audiences. The hard and meticulous pro-
ducts of the new school—in painting, any-
way—are as edifying, instructive, amusing,
moving and interesting as eating a mouldv.
fruitless, butterless bathbun on a full
stomach.
LONDON.
BRIAN PENTON.
Art and Not Art
In attempting to bolster up the crude
and often dirty edifice of Eugene O’Neill’s
works, M. G. Skipper (R.P. 10 7/’29) makes
(among many others) one extraordinary
statement. “There is not the slightest evi-
dence,” he writes, “that Marco was not
the Babbitt O’Neill makes him.” Mr.
Skipper has either never read Marco’s
own description of his travels or read, it
very superficially indeed, for those travels
are written with the ease and style of an
artist. Marco has the quick, observant
eye of a novelist, and his descriptions of
scenery and buildings in. particular are
almost unequalled in their . kind. I do
not deny that Marco was an excellent busi-
ness man. but I certainly do deny that he
was a business man purely and simply (I
hfcre use the term “business man” In its
derogatory sense to describe one who livqs
only to take down his fellow men.) Above
all, Marco Polo was an adventurer, but,
unlike many other adventurers, he was able
to record his experiences simply and with
a genuinely beautiful feeling for words.
Mr. Skipper goes on to attack me for
saying that .to compare Marco with Bab-
bitt is almost as bad as to compare Shak-
speare with O’Neill, in which he misses
my meaning. I would not think of comparing
O’Neill with even so small a playwright as
Otway or Porter, let alone with Shakspeare.
I only that the gap between Babbitt
and Marco was so huge that it almost
equals the gap between O’Neill and, Shak-
speare. Mr. Skipper washes to know what
I would have to say, if Shakspeare lived
to-day, about the “brutal sentimentality”
{Red Page continued on page 5.)


You can rely on “Truth in Advertising"
in all Anthony Horderns’ Advertisements.
Sportsmen can Save
on
FIREARMS AND
FISHING TACKLE
<n
ŵ
m
v ■/
<r
j
•/<
mrjr
jr*'
ẁ
£4/10/- Single Barrel Shot Gun, £4
.410-bore B.S.A. Single-barrel, Bolt-action Shot Gun. Chambered for
2£in. cartridges. Price, £4/10/-. Sale Price
£4
£5/10/- Hammer
Gun, £4/17/6
ẃ
12G Stevens D.B.
both choke bored.
Sale Price
Hammer Gun, 30in.
Price
steel barrels,
. . £5/10/-
... £4/17/6
£7/17/6 Match Rifle,
£7
.22-cal. B.S.A. Martini Match Rifle,
No. 12 model. Fitted with aperture
rearsight and combination foresight.
Price, £7/17/6. Sale Price .. £7
£2/10/- Ejector Gun, £2/5/
1 2G—lver Johnson Single-barrel
Ejector Gun, 30in. or 32in. barrel,
choke bored. Price .... £2/10/-
Sale Price £2/5/-
£23 Gun, £lB/18/-
1 2G—Westley Richards D.B. Ham-
merless Gun. Treble bite crossbolt,
30in. special steel barrels, left
choke, chambered Price £23.
Sale Price £lB/18/-
£6/12/6 Carbine, £5/5/-
.38-cal. Winchester Carbine, 1892
model, 20in. round barrel, half-
magazine. Price £6/12/6
Sale Price ••• f 5/ / / C
.44-cal. 20in. round barrel, half-
magazine. Price £6/12/6
Sale Price • • £5/5/-
£5/10/- Air Rifle, £5
. I 77-cal. B.S.A. Air Rifle, No. 1
model. For target and sporting.
Effective range, 30 yards. Price,
£5/10/-. Sale Price £5
£3/7/6 Air Rifle, £3
Quackenbush Air Rifle, nickel-
plated barrel, walnut stock, sliding
action. Complete with darts, slugs
and extractor. Price .... £3/7/6
Sale Price £3
Take Advantage of our “D.P.S.”
Our Deposit-Purchase System allows you to purchase goods at
Sale Prices, even though you do not wish to pay the full price
immediately. No extra charge whatever is involved just
pay a small deposit on the bargain you select, and when you
complete the balance the goods are forwarded to you in the
usual way.
42/6 Premier Revolver, 35 7 -
,22-cal. Harrington & Richardson Premier Revolver,
7-shot, 3in. barrel. Price, 42/6. Sale Price 35/-
£7/10/- Colt
Double-action
Revolver, £5/5/-
,22-cal. Colt Police Positive Target
Model Double-action Revolver, 6in.
barrel, 6-shot, blued frontsight adjust-
able for elevation. Rearsight adjustable
for windage.
ẅ
Price
£5/5/-
£7/10/- Sale Price
w
Save 8/- on
Revolver Cartridges
.38-cal. Smith and Wesson Revolver Cartridges.
Price, per 100 .... 15/- Sale Price, per 100 .... 7/-
410—Ely Universal Cartridges, No. 2,3, 4, 5 shot only.
Price, per 100 .. ..11/6 Sale Price, per 100 9/6
20G Black Powdered Cartridges, 8 and 10 shot.
Price, per 100 .... 16/- Sale Price, per 100 .... 7/6
16G Tree Brand Smokeless Cartridges, 10 shot only.
Price, per 100 17/6 Sale Price, per 100 .... 8/-
.380-cal. Colt Auto. Pistol Cartridges. Full patch nickel
bullet, smokeless. Price, per 100 20/-
Sale Price, per 100 15/-
BARGAINS
FOR FISHERMEN.
Three only, Brass-lined Wood Nottingham Reels, 4
Price, each 3 5/- Sale Price, each ......
Three only, Brass-lined Wood Nottingham Reels,
Price, each 30/- Sale Price, each
inch.
30/-
inch.
27/6
White Cotton Lines.
White Cotton Lines, 20yd. hanks, four connected.
Sale Price, doz 9/-
Sale Price, doz 12/-
Sale Price, doz 15/-
Sale Price, doz 20/-
ŵ
95/- Rods for 80/-
Winchester Split Cane Fly Rod, 9ft. (3 only). Price, 957-
Sale Price 80/ *
Greenheart Fly Rod, 10ft. Price, 30/-. Sale Price, 25/-
Farlow’s Pelican Sea Rod, with sft. 4in. Greenheart top,
lft. 4in. grip (2 only). Price, £6. Sale Price £5
Farlow’s Blagdon Split Cane Trout Rod, lift., 2 joints.
Weight, B|-oz. (2 only). Price
Sale Price £B/10/-
Gut Lines from 2/9 Each.
Best-quality Gut Lines, 40yds.
No. 9 Price 3/3
No. 10 Price 3/10
No. 1 1 Price 4/6
No. 12 Price 5/-
Above lines can be supplied
Sale Price 2/9
Sale Price 3/3
Sale Price 47-
Sale Price 4/3
in two 40yds. connected.
Dept.—Ground Floor. Carriage paid City and Suburbs only.
ẁ
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night


The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
TWENTY-NINTH REPORT
of the Directors, presented at the Annual General Meeting, held at the Banking House,
Sydney, on Tuesday, 30th July, 1929, at noon.
certified the Year ended 30th June, 1929, which have been examined and
certinea to by the Auditors, and show the following' results:—
The Balance of Profit and Loss for the year, after making full provision
tOl , Bad ;;n< t Doubtful Debts, deducting Rebate on Current Bills,
and Expenses of Management, Directors and Auditors’ Fee.?, Interest
on Fixed Deposits, Rates, etc., amounts to . . .. .. ..£278 984 0 9
Less Graduated Land and Income Taxes for the Year .. . . .. 00,439 0 0
-£218,545 0 2
„ ... Profit for the Year . .
DTotn this amount the following appropriations have been made—
Transfer to Reserve Fund
Interim Half-yearly Dividend at the rate of' 8 per’ cent.''
per annum was paid in January last, absorbing .. £88,320 0
and a final Half-yearly Dividend at the rate of
8 per cent, per annum is now recommended, amount-
ln * to 88,320 0
£218,545 0 2
.. £40,000 0 0
0
0
176,640 0 0
216,640 0 0
Brought forward from last year ~
Balance ..
1,905 0 2
26,764 18 <>
Leaving to be carried forward
. . £28,669 18 2
2 During the year Branches of the Bank have been opened at Coolali and at Epping in New South
Wales; also at 349 Murray Street and 449 Newcastle Street, Perth, Western Australia. The Receiving
Offices at Merrylands, Turramurra and Punchbowl have been converted into Branches ; while Paddington,
Belmont, Toronto, Islington, Artarmon, West Kempsey and Baralaba Receiving Offices have been withdrawn.
3 It devolves upon this Meeting to elect two Directors in the place of George James Sly and
Frank Nelson Yarwood, who retire in accordance with the provision of Article 93 of the Articles of
Association. Both are eligible and offer themselves for re-election.
4 In terms of Art icle 155 of the Articles of Association, it is also necessary to elect tv I
Auditors in the place of William 11. Perry, F.C.A. (Aust.), and Eric' R. Mitchell, F.O.A. (Aust.), who
retire in accordance with the Articles of Association, and of whom the latter is eligible and offers
himself for re-election. Milton F. Johnson, F.O.A. (Aust.), has given notice that he is a candidate for
election in the place of W. H. Perry.
MARK SHELDON,
■Sydney, 26th July, 1929. Chairman.
BALANCE SHEET.
(Including London Office—by Cable)
30th JUNE, 1929.
-iuujuj iovu . . . . . ,
Subscribed Capital
To Capital paid-up
„ Reserve Fund
»> Customers’ Deposits and other Liabilities
„ Government Deposits
„ Bills in Circulation and other amounts payable
„ Balances due to other Banks
» Profit and Loss Account:—
Balance:
For Dividend ..
To increase amount carried forward
Brought forward from 30th June, 1928 ..
£5,000,000 0 0
£88,320 0 0
. 1,905 0 2
90,225 0 2
26,764 18 0
£3,294,880 5 0
16,568,898 2 6
116,989 18 2
£19,980,768 5 8
Contingent Liabilities, consisting of Letters of Credit, etc. ; for which customers are resoonsible to
the Bank, £956,656 Bs. 2d.
By Coin and Bullion
~ Australian Notes and Cash with Commonwealth Bank . .
„ Cash at London Bankers and at short call in London . .
~ British Treasury Bills and other Government and Municipal
Securities
~ Balances due by other Banks
„ Bills Receivable and Remittances in transit . .
,i Bills Discounted, Loans, Advances, all other Debts due to the bank,
„ Bank Premises
£787,122 5 6
1,404,596 14 8
659,167 15 10
881,104 19 6
548,555 14 10
2,375,569 15 0
and other Assets
£6,656,117 5 4
12,913,154 15 6
411,496 4 10
£19,980,768 5 8
ẃ
ẅ
w
To Transfer to Reserve Fund (now £1,086,880 5 0)
„ Interim Half-yearly Dividend paid
„ Final Half-yearly Dividend recommended
„ Balance to be carried down
MARK SHELDON, Chairman.
C. M. U. SHANNON, General Manager.
By Profit for the year ended 30th June, 1929 .. . . £278,984 0 2
Less Graduated Land and Income Taxes .. .. .. .. 60,439 0 0
I £218,545 0 2
By Nett Profit for the Year
By Balance to be brought down—after payment of Dividend £88,320 recommended
„ Balance brought forward from last year ..
To be carried forward
WILLIAM H. PERRY I
ERIC R. MITCHELL (
Auditors.
Chartered Accountants ( Aust .).
THE SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER
Self
Propelled
.•’i
m
U
h
ii
HI
1
m
sm
Wd:
m
.
> ft .:
1
m
WM
m\
m
RJE
12ft.
Cut
With a crew of two men, one to drive and one to tend the bagging, the Auto Header will harvest 40 acres in a day, on a petrol
consumption of half a gallon to the acre.
The Auto Header is renowned for its ability to harvest storm-flattened and thistle-infested crops.
The 4-cylinder engine is available for general belt work on the farm. When fitted with feed table and straw elevator, the Auto Header
makes a very efficient stationary thrasher.
Write for illustrated descriptive catalogue and particulars of price and terms to —
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE.
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES:
664 Bourke Street West, MELBOURNE. 95-97 North Terrace, ADELAIDE.
27-39 George Street West, SYDNEY. Corner Murray and King Streets, PERTH,
H. V. McKay (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, SOUTH BRISBANE.


For Any Travel
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
In co-operation with
WAGONS-LITS CO.
w
PASSAGES
By all lines, all routes, all classes,
at bedrock fares. No booking fees.
TO EUROPE 1930
As berthing plans for all steamers
are open, BOOK NOW to ensure
comfort on the voyage.
ESCORTED EUROPEAN TOURS
We offer choice of a dozen different
tours leaving Australia in February,
March and April, at fares to suit all
purses. Apply for special pro-
gramme.
WINTER TOURS
To Queensland, Java, Siam, Japan,
Hawaii, California, Indo-China,
Ceylon, etc.
TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
A boon to travellers, safe, conveni-
ent, good everywhere. Apply for
particulars.
SAILING LISTS
Programmes and all information
post free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE: 269 Collins Street.
SYDNEY: Martin Place.
ADELAIDE: 49 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE: Adelaide Street.
PERTH: Forrest Place, opp. G.P.O.
AUCKLAND: Queen Street.
WELLINGTON: Corner Hunter and
Featherston Streets.
of ‘‘The Taming of the Shrew, or the
“violent language” of “Measure for Mea-
sure,” or the “dirt” of “Pericles,’ Act IV.,
Scene 2. I thank him for choosing such
excellent examples of what I wish to ex-
press about art and not art. Excluding
•Measure for Measure,” which is a great
work, the dirt of “Pericles” is dirt ot
the worst kind. (I really don’t think it
would be fair to Shakspeare to eonsidei
even for a moment the sadly immature and
very dull “Taming of the Shrew. ) lhu
“Pericles” is a late work and a shameful
work, for it gives us Shakspeare turning
like the proverbial scorpion and stinging
his own earlier pieces, attempting to de-
grade the beauty of sex; and the horrible
part is that he succeeds. We have only to
compare the bordello scene here with the
bordello scene in “Henry the Fourth to
see exactly what I mean by the word
“dirt.” The material of both plays is the
same, but the method, the result, is entirely
different. Falstaff and the divine Doll
Tearsheet carry the crudery of their sur-
roundings beyond the dull realism of Boiilt
and his crew. This is that indefinable quality
of ecstasy that makes Rabelais the Tnosl
violent burst of laughter ever heard on
earth. Falstaff and Panurge are brothers;
Boult would find no comrade in this com-
pany. He is of the spineless brotherhood
of second-rate art. Again, in “The Custom
of the Country,” by Fletcher and Shak-
speare, the hero’s brother, Rutilio, behaves
in a bordello as no hero should behave,
yet he is elevated to art. The material ot
a work does not matter. Falstaff and
Dickens’s Quilp meet on an equal plane.
Although they walk in different earthly
worlds, they meet in the world of genius.
This power to raise the most despicable
of characters or the most sordid of situ-
ations out of the ruck of “realism into a
world that is not this world, and is really
far more actual than this world, is a powei
that very few minds have possessed, and
even those few have held it in their hands
for only a short while. We can explain
this variation from “Henry IV.” to
“Pericles” by the light of modern psy-
chology as sex-resentment, what Montaigne
calls the “incidental repentance of old
age.” According to Frank Harris this state
of mind was the result of being surrounded
by his daughters, and there is a great deal
of truth in this. “Pericles” is a deliberate
attack on love, the volte-jace from “Troilus
and Cressida” and “Antony and Cleopatra.”
It is the work of a once vitally-sexed man
turning on the lusts of his youth.
But O’Neill is incapable of even a
“Pericles,” because O’Neill knows nothing
about life. His “Welded” (the only play
of his comparable to “Pericles”) does not
disgust one, because it is too preposterously
incredible to be anything except funny.
Because a few lurid adjectives are thrown
in it does not mean that a work is realistic;
because a play is depressing and morbid
it does not mean that it is realistic. Is
life all cursing, ranting and despair? I at
least have not found it so. Love particu-
larly, which most modern authors persist in
painting as a series of violent tortures a la
D. H. Lawrence, can be very often an
entirely delightful episode. O’Neill does
not believe in happiness, and for that reason
if for no other he is no more realistic than
the cheap novelists who consider life all
pansies and cream. Actually, although
standing at opposite poles, they are the
same mind.
PHILIP LINDSAY.
The Australian Accent
John Dailey (R.P. 26/6/’29) fails to
make the distinction between an accent,
properly so called, and slovenly, ignorant
speech which is the outcome of laziness
ancl bad training. There is an Australian
accent, of course. Whether you like it or
not, it is there, national, ineradicable. You
can' hear it in the law courts, especially on
an off day, when the junior bar in full
crv —thin, musical, penetrating. You can
hear it on the stage—sometimes pleasing
enough, though not a good medium for,
say, Shakspearean drama.
But with this accent, properly so called,
the wrongly so-called Australian accent has
almost nothing to do. The average Aus-
tralian may or may not speak with an
Australian accent, but many Australians
who would be pained to think they spoke
with the accent of the Oxford don are quite
content to speak with the accent of the
Whitechapel coster. Certain mispronunci-
ations are stereotyped—“a” is pronounced
‘•i,” “o” is pronounced “ou” or “oi,” “u”
very' often is pronounced “ow.” A point
which I have never seen noted is that the
users of these limited vowel sounds seem
almost incapable of recognising pure sounds
when they hear them. They are as if
listening to a foreign tongue and will fre-
quently ask to have the simplest remark
repeated if it employs more vowels or
diphthongs than the three they habitually
use. This explains much of the difficulty
with the telephone exchange. Consonants
are frequently not pronounced at all. Words
are run together—“point-a-view,” “th’ only,”
“a’ course.” It is simply due to the failure
to use those muscles which require the
slightest effort or precision.
The unrecognised distinction between
national accent and slovenly speech ex-
plains the point noted by Mr. Dailey—that
the Australian is the only racial accent
which can be got rid of completely; simply
because it is not, as a rule, either racial
or an accent. The distinction requires to
be insisted upon because it is the failure
to recognise this distinction that prevents
action being taken to lift this national
curse. Many of the young people who
take Leaving French at school would never
attain that standard if their French pro-
nunciation was as inferior as their English.
There seems to be no conscience in our
schools for the abrogation of a school’s
first function to teach its pupils their
mother tongue. The vocabulary of these
young people is as limited and uncouth as
its pronunciation is bad. It compares with
the rich picturesqueness of the British and
European peasants and artisans from whom
most of us are descended as a talkie com-
pares with wild bird notes.
ANNA T. BRENNAN.
A Conspiracy of Silence
“There is no room for ‘literary talk’ at
any moment,” says “A.H.A.” in support of
Cecil Mann. “The author, Australian or
otherwise, has only one job, and it is pretty
strenuous.”
Now, begging the gentlemen’s pardon,
who'ever heard anything more nonsensical?
Literary talk is a sign of literary activity.
When people cease to talk literature, it is
a sign that they’ are no longer interested.
The more books are talked about, the more
they will be bought. The more books are
bought, the easier will be the author’s job
—which I agree is strenuous. Will a man
necessarily write worse because his sales
go up? Will he not, rather, be free to do
his best work and Cut out this-heart-break-
ing “writing cheap stuff for bread”?
Of course it is a very noble thing to
walk the literary “straight and narrow” in
a religious silence; but surely a little
appreciation warms up a man’s heart and
makes him readier for the lonely road!
The noble art of conversation, literary or
otherwise, has given us some of our most
treasured books. Who would remember
Johnson now if he had not been so given
to idle hours of tea and talk? A man’s
best self does not always go into his books.
It is often revealed in his t&lk. Curious
as are the writings of old Aloysius Horn,
Mrs. Lewis’s notes of his conversations are
much more precious.
There’s not nearly enough literary talk in
Australia. If there were we would know
more about our own writers, buy more of
their books, help them on with their job.
Then you would not have to visit 10 shops
in search of an admittedly fine Australian
book, and be looked upon by the book-
sellers as a sort of crank for wanting it —
as I was when I went searching for Vance
Palmer’s “The Man Hamilton,” published
only seven months ago. The booksellers
would be eager to keep supplies. Second
editions would be the rule and not the
exception.
One wonders if, when people condemn
literary conversation, the real reason is
that they have had so little of it that they
have ceased to feel the want?
LUCILLE M. BLOINE.
A Satchel of Books
Sandals of Pearl, by Edith Homes (Dent).
An unusually beautiful book for children up
to the age of 13 or so. A sea-fairy gives
magic sandals to a boy and a girl and
together they explore the under-sea, meeting
with friendly and dangerous things and shar-
ing in exciting adventures. The author’s
style is charming and the illustrations by
Audrey Chalmers would win any youngster’s
heart.
Climbing Up, by Herbert N. Casson (The
Efficiency Magazine; Robertson and Mul-
lens). Mr. Casson is Samuel Smiles come
to life again. His Epistles to the Go-getters
have inspired would-be business men in
“France, Spain, Switzerland, Czechoslovakia,
Holland, Greece, Hungary, Japan and Ger-
many, as well as in all English-speaking
countries.” His doctrine appears to be that
the employee should do his best while the
employer does what he likes.
Romanesque France, by Violet R. Mark-
ham (Murray). The author says she has
attempted to make better known the beauties
and interest of the ancient churches of
France, and she deserves success. Her large
book is a storehouse of description, illustra-
tion and information. One needs to have
only the faintest interest in her subject to
find the volume a gripping entertainment.
Japan under Taisho Tenno, 1912-1926,
by A. Morgan Young (Allen and Unwin).
As assistant-editor and then editor of the
Japan Chronicle throughout the reign of
“Great Righteousness,” Mr. Young has had
peculiar facilities for studying Nippon dur-
ing the 34-years’ term in which
Japan became the third maritime Power of the
world both in naval strength and commercial tonnage;
her warships swept the Pacific and Indian Oceans
and the Mediterranean; her arms penetrated 3000
miles into Siberia and controlled China ; she lent
money to Russia, France and Britain ; her represen-
tatives at Versailles enforced her will on a reluctant
Europe ; her officers took part in determining Europe’s
new boundaries; her manufactures were in the most
eager demand in every country of the w0r1d....
She exchanged representatives with the Porte and the
Vatican ; Japanese scientists took their place in the
vanguard of research; and Japanese speculators had
to be reckoned with in the world’s markets.
Of all that, the earthquake aud other such
material. Mr. Young has made a book pic-
turesque. brisk and gripping.
In the short notice of M. H. Ellis’s “Ex-
press to Hindustan” (17/7/’29), the book
was described as “the story of the Birtles
effort to motor from England to Australia,
told by one of the three in the party.” The
Red Page is assured that “Mr. Birtles had
nothing to do with the organisation, com-
mand or plans of the party, whose leader
and organiser was the author of the book.”
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be takeii oj communications nnlum
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re t
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Inge B.: Good; let’s hear again. Bur
please leave more space between your lines. The
sub-editor has a useful hoe, t 00.... J.V.F.: But you
must get something fresher than that to say
M.E.C.S.: Gained nothing in the re-writing, and
seems to have lost a bit... .Point Eight: Too effusive.
The first three years of every young man’s (and
especially every young woman’s) writing experience
ought to be declared a close season for adjectives
and adverbs... .H.V.W.: Too Steele Ruddy, though
it might be going too far to say that it is Ruddy-
Steal H.D.A.: Thanks, but the “Land” page wants
only pars, which will help the farmer either to
make more money or to get more pleasure out
of his job.... Banjo Shakspeare: .fudged by enclosed
verse that pen-name is far too modest. Why,
you could nearly call yourself Douglas Fairbanks. .. .
H.1.M.: Don’t think much of “The Hen’s Farewell,”
but prepared to take a risk and read “The Goanna
and the Jam Tin”... .K.M.G.: Not enough in it
Eye De: Nothing but lack of space kept it out of
this column... .A,S.: You don’t make the main
object clear enough.... Margaret L.: A prose subject.
P.J.H.: The “with apologies” that goes with
parodies ought to conclude “for laziness”.... 0.P.:
You demand a line explaining why your work is
rejected; here are four from your “Faces in the
Street”: —*
The sidelong glance that shows the furtive mind,
Faces that, like cows’ faces, are just kind.
A face of baffled energy that inward seems to squirm
Like a disgusted early bird that couldn’t find the
worm.
.. . .P.E.S.: Very thin 8.T.F.: Hackneyed. .. .
M.H.: We like more meat with our metre....
H.W.G.: Verse accepted by King George V. to
hand. God Save the King!.... J.R.8.: All too slight.
R.S.McG.: Doesn’t ring true W.R.8.L.:
Covering letter the best, but verses have points....
M.W.C.: Lunch with the unemployed:—
No, these were not the common sort
Of laboring men, who only bought
A plate of mash and one Frankfort—
No, these dined like the toffs "at court.
Then the leader with a swish
Seized and rattled hard his dish
And promptly gave the order, “Fish”;
Said I “Certainly, if you wish.”
And thus on every course did dine
Then ordered nuts, cigars and wine.
In reply to a remark of mine,
They all in chorus answered, “Fine.”
Hut written on the bill they gave in
Was: “Book it up to Premier Bavin,”
Leaving me there swearin’, ravin’ ;
In their hand a red-rag wavin’.
. ...P.H.: Excellent idea, but it calls for lighter
and briefer treatment A.G-J.: Notion that old
houses have ghosts is wearing thin; others too
slight R.H.: Both need a course of Parnassus
Brand Body Builder 1.5.: As ornithology it might
be all right R.A.S.: Not in that form M.M. i
It reads almost like verse Cejay: Neither quite
suitable Alan I.: Still a long way off, but more
promising.. • .H.L.J.: To put it mildly, it s dreadful.
jip : Verse about the captive cockatoo is, un-
fortunately, too much like the music of their topic.
Fido sed cui vido: No good, Fido... . A.E.T.:
You’re a bit young yet....J.1.: Among the outeds.
Gwen Doline: Unrhymed line leaves it all up
in the air H.S.C.: Don’t fancy our prose cut up
into short lengths like that... .R.E.H.: Common-
place. .. .R.W.J.: Both have points, but the dull
ends beat them. ... L.P.: Tried the “Magic Key” on
the cash-box —pretty poor fit. ...W.G.: Curfew rang
on “The City at Sunset”... .M.R.: Not for u 5....
J.A.H.8.: Not up, but lias some good lines. Every-
thing used is paid f0r.... J.A.D.: Another definition
of Fame is something that evades those who write
about it E.S.P.: “Ware Shark!” reads like a
nightmare after whitebait... .A.G.M.: Its in print.
.. . .Abadan : Some distance off poetry... .S.H.A.:
Made us think the ’flu not so bad, after a 11....
A.H.: Turn the spotlight on:—
There’s some men that’s always toiling
Trying to pull our country through
But there’s others just the obset
So what ever can we do
It’s a shame to think its happened
To let her get in such away
For there ain’t no country worse off
Then Australia is to-day.
But behopes a time is coming
When our land will see a change
And I quite believe it could be done
I f we only had the brains.
. ... M.H.: Starts with the suggestion of a story and
ends nowhere E.M.M.: Nightmare yarn too dis-
jointed, and the devil is out of date A.R.: All
over the place; no central interest.... R.R.: Turf
story is a loser... .T.H.F.: A crime story it would
be a crime to print... .R.D.Y.: Not bad, but too
sketchy A.M.Y.: “The late frost” gives no pro-
mise of an early spring H.D.: Fell at the last
hurdle. .. .H.W.: No cakes for your Alfred ... .T. 8.:
“The reassuring note of a mopoke” was its only
gem ... W.W.: Distribution of votes at the Queens-
land election: Country Progressive and National
parties, 234,078; Labor, 173,245; Independent.
20,999; Communist, 1356....H.K. (M.L.) : The poet
was the son of Basil Kendall and his wife Melinda,
grand-daughter of Leonard McNally, one of the
United Irishmen; he was born April 18, 1841, at
Kirmington, near Milton, southern N.S.W. Basil
Kendall had served in the Chilean navy under Dun-
donald; lie died in the Clarence River district in
1851. His father, Thomas Kendall, was one of the
first missionaries and the first magistrate in Maoii-
land, where he arrived in 1814. In 1820 he accom-
panied some Maori chiefs to England, and joined
Prof Lee of Cambridge, in writing the first grammar
of the Maori language. .. .E.O.P. : Doesn’t quite suit.
. ...J.8.C.: “Live and Laugh.” We’ll do our best.
'’ ’ . Seeachem: Metre wobbles too much even for
jingle N.Y.: Not much in “Echoes” W.T.E.:
Don’t care for either. .. .Loreen: Too much Pluto
not enough melody Kenna: You get close, but
that’s all P.0.M.C.: Slender Y.C.: They were
published, but not discussed.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
M.G.: Joke unoriginal; drawing aboriginal....
S.L.: It failed to click. .. .L.J.H.: Your champion
rabbit-trapper will have to serenade his friends else-
where ...H.H.: Can’t you see anything wrong with
those oockies?... .EUR: No use for tiny head
studies J.L.: Stop that scratching, and try to
get the stiffness out of their joints E.W.: The
abo. axeman got it in the neck J.C.: Passable
drawing of a cemetery; others only fit for burial
there C.E.U.: You have a lot to learn about
art. .V.C.8.: You are an unpolished craftsman,
and the gags are mouldy.


9
:
♦ Ml***
7
tm
*l*ls
-Wv'/
V ;
fH
1
X :
v; ;
i:, Sj
ÜBIM
iS*:
mssmsm
i
. ,-.
,a
-
111
v'-.
■ '
i *, ■; 'f ~
I
m
ilib imi


The Bulletin
Vol. 30. —No. 2551.
July 31, 1925).
A DOSE OF HIS OWN MEDICINE.
“The immediate cause of the trouble in Manchuria is the refusal of China to stand by an agreement formerly made with Russia regarding a railway concession.
IVANOVITSKI: “Now where the devilovitch did he learn that word?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
Sl.'i George Street, Sydney; Bon 252188.
Victoria: IH-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : .?(!) Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westrai.ia : SS Barrack Street, Perth.
London :S6 Southampton Street, Strand f 1 V.G.2.
Regent 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
Weekly: 12 months, £1 .)s.; 6 months, 12s. Od.;
S months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
S months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, Few Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdomjoz. to 10oz.; l td.;
each additional joz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: .)oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
A GREAT GERMAN WAR-BOOK .. ..2
THE AUSTRALIAN ACCENT—
By Anna T. Brennan . . .. .. 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . . . 5
THE FRONT-PAGE CARTOON BY REASON . . 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
PICKETING MUST STOP 8
RUSSIA OR AUSTRALIA, DAD? .. ..8
MANCHURIA—By Feng-Shui .. .. ..8
N.S.W. FAMILY ENDOWMENT SCANDALS 8
POSITION IN WESTRALIA . . ~ .. 9
SOLDIER SETTLERS 9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 9
POLITICS 10
CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) .. .. 11, 12
WHITE WOMEN AMONG NORTHERN
BLACKS 11
PERSONAL (with caricatures) . . . . . . 13
“WILD CAT’’ COLUMNS 11, 16
MANLY FERRIES U
QUEENSLAND BREWERY U
AUSTRALIA HOTEL 11
W. R. CARPENTER (& CO 11
OIL IN MAORILAND 10
SUNDRY SHOW’S (Theatres, vie.) .. ..18
ABORTGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 19, 20
MAN ON THE LAND 22, 25
THE FARM TRACTOR .’22
WINTER FEED FOR STOCK 22
SELECTING THE POULTRY BREED .. 22
QUEENSLAND ARTESIAN BORES .. ..22
Free Service Department 26
SMOKE-OH 28
PEN AND PICTURE 31
THE NEWEST TALKIES 31
ART SHOWS 31
THE INKY WAY 31
SPORTING (illustrated; .. .. ..35, 37, 39
MOONEE VALLEY RACES 35
ROSEHILL RACES 35
ALL BLACKS v. AUSTRALIA 37
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 40
SPRING FASHION SHOWS 40
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 42
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 43 '
“THE QUARTERMASTER” .. . .44, 45, 46
NORMAN LINDSAY ILLUSTRATION . . 45
“Paradise Plumes” . . 47, 49, 50
COMPLETE STORY by Arthur 11. Adams .. 50
VERSE—
“BOTTLES,” by Horace Halloran . . . . 11
By Kathleen Dalziel and Dulcie Deamer . . 46
By Sydney Gordon . . . . . . .. 50
Next Week.
1 “WITHOUT PRAYERS TO BED” and “A BUSH
T.P.O.”—two Complete Stories that can be
recommended.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 31, 1929.
PICKETING MUST STOP!
The time has come when this so-called
Nationalist Government of N. S. Wales
must explain why striking Labor unionists
are enjoying immunities which are denied
<o every other class.
The law on the subject of the illegalities
which have become as common almost as
dirt is well defined. A great English Judge
(Lord Wrenbury) put it clearly:—
“There are some things which seem to
me so plain that no honest man could dispute
them. I put intimidation in the forefront.
Intimidation is a flat denial of freedom. It
means the substitution of a reign of terror
for a reign of reason. It is absolutely alien
to democracy.”
Yet last Wednesday the Picket Line, the
timber strikers’ organ, said that the men
would “await the first opportunity of putting
into effect their organised campaign of
intimidation against the volunteers.” On
the same evening, according to a S. M.
Herald report of next day, “about 1000
pickets took their usual stations outside the
timber yards,” and a battle of tactics fol-
lowed between them and the police. In
the end the police got the free workers
safely home. A Sun writer described the
homecoming:—
“Women spit from balconies and call con-
temptuous names. The big red gate erupts
policemen—dozens of them. The sullen army
is overawed. The guarded volunteers reach
their tram.
“A parting gust of abuse cuts the air.”
In the North the same kind of thing
is going on, with grotesque armistices:—
“Weston men only picketed about two
hours, when they returned home, as they
had to be in attendance at the police station
this morning to receive relief.”
There have been more than 100 mur-
derous attacks on free workers by so-called
bashers during the last three months in
Sydney and suburbs. Certain policemen
who have stood by the victims of these
criminals have been warned that the next
Labor Government will “fire” them, and a
Judge who sentenced a basher has been simi-
larly threatened. As there have been no
disclaimers from the Lang party, the public
is justified in taking these notifications as
official. Over 25 per cent, of Sydney’s inade-
quate police force is permanently occupied
in the crazy business of watching pickets—
not ordering them about their business or
charging them with loitering with intent
to commit a felony, but just watching them.
And on special occasions, such as demon-
strations by strike sympathisers, many more
police are detached from their ordinary
duties.
Some results are a serious crime wave; the
closing down of industries and a big increase
in unemployment, leading to more crime;
and, worst of all, the creation of a state
of hatred between the strikers and the
classes that are being ruined by strike
methods. And if this strike is allowed to
end without any step being taken by the
Government to show’ that demonstrative
picketing with or without violence is a
crime, there will be more strikes. And,
immediately they begin, basher gangs will
start to function, and all those who oppose
the strike leaders’ policies (Judges, police,
free workers, etc.) will be terrorised as
before. The Baldwin Government, when
faced with a similar challenge to its
authority in the general strike, took firm
action, and soon found that the people
were solidly behind the maintenance of the
law. The Bavin Government would make
the same discovery if it acted decisively.
Meanwhile the danger of an outbreak of
violence on a larger scale grows with every
day that lawbreakers go safe because they
are numerous and well organised. It is not
a question, this, of Labor sympathy or
sympathy with the Fat Man. It is a ques-
tion democratic government versus mob
rule. There surely are democrats still in
the Labor party. How long are they going
to allow it to be associated with criminal
propaganda and the practices which, in the
words of Lord Wrenbury, are “absolutely
alien to democracy”?
Is there no courage at all on either side
of the House?
RUSSIA OR AUSTRALIA, DAD?
The British Labor party issues bulletins
at intervals to explain how affairs are pro-
gressing, and in the latest one Minister
Clynes laid down the policy of the Mac-
Donald Government as it stood at time of
writing. This idea is commendable. Every
Ministry should be bound to issue a definite
statement of policy once in six months.
Then the people would see how latest
policy squared with latest action.
The first feature of the programme as.
expounded by Clynes is identical with that
of Lloyd George, inasmuch as it is proposed
to start a mass of public works, and absorb
a large number of the unemployed at “road
construction, land drainage and reclamation,
slum clearance, power and transport develop-
ment, afforestation and so forth.” The
workers are to receive much better pay than
the “dole” which Lloyd George invented.
Tremendous emphasis is laid on the really
good pay. The “dole” is provided by con-
tributions from employees, employers and
the State, but the wages of the new State
workers will necessarily be paid by the
State, and even if the works become repro-
ductive in time (and forests take a long
time) a very large amount will have to be
found in the interval. Lloyd George pro-
posed to adopt the Australian trick of
raising big loans, and the electors turned him
down with a shudder. The MacDonald
people avoid rousing the electors by not
explaining how the money is to be raised.
The pressure on the labor market is to be
relieved at both ends. Children are to be
kept at school, and consequently off the
market, a year later, and their fathers and
grandfathers are to be encouraged, by a
liberal increase of pensions, to get out of
the industrial fairway earlier. Both improve-
ments will cost, money. The nearest
approach to explaining how money is to be
raised is that a “national economic com-
mittee” is to be appointed, with Ramsay
MacD. in the chair, to “mobilise scientific
knowledge and technical skill,” and to
“make changes in the banking and financial
system so as to secure that the available
supply of savings and credit is used to the
greatest national advantage.” Australia has
ambitious committees to spare, and would
gladly lend one with S. M. Bruce in the
chair. It might even be willing to shout
the chair.
The party sticks hard and fast, in theory
at least, to its policy of wiping out Dominion
tariff preferences. If the Dominions pro-
test, in the only effectual way, by abolishing
the preferences they give to MacDonald’s
country, that amazed parent land may lose
40 or 50 million pounds’ worth of annual
sales before it begins to realise that any-
thing has struck it.
Probably in order to square matters,
Minister Clynes promised “to resume rela-
tions with Russia, so that British mills and
factories might benefit from the orders
which that great potential customer can
place.” Commercial relations with the great
Red Insolvent are in full working order, on
paper at least; so there is no reason, save
a desire to give the Red Insolvent special
help and countenance, for keeping this thin
prevarication on anybody’s programme.
Last year John Bull encouraged his blood-
stained brother by purchasing from him
£21,548,000 worth of his wares, while from
Russia, Finland, Esthonia, Latvia and
Lithuania—in fact, from Russia as it was
before the war—his buyings were larger
than before the war. In return for the
£21,548,000 of import trade J. Bull sold a
paltry £2,716,000 worth of his own produce
to Ivan the Ungrateful. He could have
sold more, but Ivan's long-dated bill with-
out endorsement is dreadfully shoddy paper.
A matter which is carefully obscured
amid the hazy special pleading of people
like MacDonald and Clynes is that Britain
is Russia’s best customer. The Soviet’s own
figures are up to 1926-27, and they showed
that John Bull took over 29 p.c. of all
that Soviet Russia had to sell, which was
more than the purchases of Germany and
the United States put together. As British
imports from Russia grow, Russian pur-
chases in return diminish. Russia’s attitude
towards John Bull is that a Freetrade
nation will stand kicking and be the better
for it, and the proposal to invite the Bol-
shevik meddlers back, so that they may
build another Arcos in London to be a nest
of treason and conspiracy, shows that they
are not far wrong. To invite a declared
enemy into England on’the off-chance that
local capitalists may sell him a few more
cotton shirts on time payment is the shop-
keeping spirit highly developed.
Russia was a poor customer, of far less
value than Australia, before it lost its
civilised western provinces, some of its best
ports, its good manners and its soul in the
Great War, and it isn’t worth the trouble
that John Bull wastes on it now.
MANCHURIA.
The dispute between Russia and China
began years ago. tt is not over the owner-
ship of a railway merely. It is over the
possession of a country larger than N. S.
Wales and potentially richer. Of its mineral
resources men who have examined it from
that point of view say it is difficult to write
temperately. Concerning its agricultural
wealth, in a recent year the South Man-
churia Railway Co., which is really Japan,
claimed to have property worth £140,000,000
and paid a 10 p.c. dividend on its huge
capital. And it tapped only a small corner
of the province.
From time to time almost every important
country has thrust its finger into this pie,
and on more than one of these occasions
the guns threatened to sing. When Russia
finally landed the railway concession in
1896, Britain sought compensation in the
Peking-Hankow route, and when this
threatened to go to France and Russia
masquerading as a Belgian concern, no less
a pacifist than Mr. Balfour informed the
shaking mandarins that the British Gov-
ernment would regard China’s “breach of
faith” as “an act of deliberate hostility
against this country, and we shall act accord-
ingly.” Britain did succeed in landing a
railway concession, but part of it intruded
on the Russian sphere of influence, and
there were heated exchanges between the
Czar’s advisers and Downing-street. It was
not, thought worth going to war about,
however, so the world did not wake one
morning to learn that England’s or Russia’s
honor had been outraged in a part of the
globe it had never heard of and whose
name it couldn’t pronounce.
The challenge to Russia’s right to build
a railway through someone else’s property
came from an unexpected direction—Japan.
Nippon decided it was worth a war. She
won it, but got only half the railway. There
were too many other claimants in the field.
Even America endeavored to get something
in the scramble, but, like Germany, came
late into the argument and was regarded as
an interloper. So Uncle piously plumped
for the Open Door, though that sacred
principle - did not prevent him confirming
Japan’s interests in Korea and Manchuria
in return for having his own possessions in
the Philippines left undisturbed by Nip-
ponese imperialism. This business of
supplying railway transport to the Manchu
even had something to do with the causes
of the Great War of 1914, because it helped
to bring about the Entente Cor diale.
After the Great War the Bolshevik
Russians were inclined to adopt an atti-
tude of holy horror towards the “imperial-
istic spoils” left by the Czar. They even
offered to return the Manchurian railway to
China, though the moral value of the
gesture was somewhat discounted by the
fact that the railway happened to be in
inter-Allied hands at the moment. How-
ever, when Russia began to feel its strength
again, it changed its mind and claimed the
line. The claim was disputed by the
Russo-Asiatic Bank, which was mainly
French; and Uncle Sam also put in a pro-
test. Nevertheless, the Soviet ultimately
moved in again, though under certain
limitatioris, which included joint control
with China.
You have to travel over the Manchurian
system to realise how possession of a railway
conquers a country. When you cross the
border from Vladivostock you are still osten-
sibly in Russian territory. Houses, shops,
the churches with their onion tops—all are
Russian. Harbin is a Russian city with a
Chinese annexe. But when you step off the
Russian system on to the Japanese, you
are back in Nippon—even more so, be-
cause the Japanese, with their Prussian
thoroughness, have transplanted every detail
of their national organisation, including
their educational system and their yoshi-
waras.
There is just one chance that the bone
of contention may be removed from the
international platter—a somewhat slender
one, though. The Chinese are steadily
recovering their lost province by peaceful
penetration. Last year over a million yellow
agriculturists moved across the border. And
no matter what else happens, this move-
ment will proceed. It is in view of this
inevitability that China may fold its hands
when others talk war, and smile inscrutably,
China knows how to wait.
FUNG-SHUL
PLAIN ENGLISH.
N.S.W. Family Endowment Scandals.
N.S.W. employers who conduct their own
businesses have to pay a Commonwealth
tax of ss. in the £, with 8 per cent, added,
on income exceeding £7600, and a State tax
of ss. in the £ on income exceeding £7OOO.
They are compelled by law to insure their
employees against occupational sickness and
accidents, to observe the 44-hour week, and
to give youths of 21 the basic wage, which
is £4 ss. They have also to find a child-
endowment tax of £2 in the £IOO on wages
and salaries, less 10 per cent, in the case of
men working under Federal arbitration
awards, for whom the basic wage is £4 15s.
The child-endowment scheme was intro-
duced by a Labor Government for vote-
buying purposes, and the Nationalists are
keeping it going because they are afraid
they would lose votes if they did away with
it. Very little was heard about the admin-
istration of the business until lately, when
it was admitted, with no wealth of detail,
that frauds involving £2OOO had been dis-
covered. Now the newspapers are beginning
to fill up with items like these:—
“A constable said that when he visited
the home at Kogarah of an aboriginal
whom he had arrested for vagrancy he found
eight persons in one house. Two women
slept on a filthy bed, and four children on
an unclean mattress on the floor. Two men
slept in another room in a bed which was
also filthy. There was no food in the place.
One of the women had shortly before been
paid £52 by the Child endowment Board,
for herself and four children, but she had
spent it all on taxi-cabs, methylated sinrits
and beer.”
“At Kurri Mr. Reed, P.M., recently fined
men for getting relief under false pretences.
In a case at Cessnock, described by Mr.
Reed as the worst that had come under his
notice, a miner confessed to having drawn
£5 a week compensation from a colliery,
£1 10s. a week police relief and 15s. a week
child endowment.”
It is certain that, the child-endowment
tax helped to close the northern mines, and
equally certain that it is helping to keep
them closed. For, in a district where the
class-war doctrine has made such progress,
men are not going to work at reduced
wages for the boss if the Government and
their mates and other unions will pay them
for not working.
Goaded, perhaps, by the Cessnock dis-
closures, the Government has refused police
relief (but not child endowment) to
miners who own motor-cars. If it gets
really angry it may withhold police relief
(but not child endowment) from miners
who own racehorses.
Almost every day a deputation headed
by some suburban mayor waits on Acting-
Premier Buttenhole with the story that
the amount of local distress is heartrending.
It is true; and can it be wondered at?
♦
Australia’s Industrial Handicap.
Professor Mills, of Sydney University,
speaking on “Some Australian Economic
Problems,” remarked lately that “public
regulation has undoubtedly abolished sweat-
ing—and with universal approval.” Quite
true, but unfortunately the reaction has led
to conditions which are as disastrous to
the workers and the nation as sweating used
to be. Leisure has been canonised. The
class loyalty of any worker who extols
work is suspected.
This country, which used to be in the van
of industrial progress, is almost the
only part of the civilised world which has
not dropped to the fact that Bolshevism
offers no cure for unemployment. The
militaristic Bolshie has been out of favor
for years in Europe, the British threw out
their Saklatvalas with great violence at
the last election, and in the U.S.A. the
I.W.W. creed is as old-fashioned as the
velocipede. The existence of a “war” is
recognised in these countries; but it is
a war not of class, but of industry. W.
Milne Bailey, Secretary of Britain’s Trade
Union and Labor Research Department,
gives an enlightening account in the current
Realist of how the new policy is operating.
Its basis is co-operation, and the world’s
most shining example of the plan is dealt
with in detail. The Amalgamated Clothing
workers of America formerly followed a
trade which . “was badly organised and
sweated.”
“To-day the Union owns and operates a
successful bank, an investment trust and a
co-operative'housing scheme for its members.
The Union sends its own technical experts
into the employer’s plant, if he pleads in-
ability to observe Union conditions, to show
him how to reorganise his business, eliminate
waste, and in other ways raise his level
of efficiency. The Union’s bank has extended
credit to employers to tide them over difficult
periods, not only earning interest on its loan,
but saving members from unemployment, and
its unemployment insurance scheme from a
drain on its funds.”'
Many other U.S.A. examples are cited by
this English worker—the Printing Press-
men and Assistants’ Union (it “examines


THE FEDERAL PANTO: THE BABES IN THE WOOD.
“Mr. Hughes is understood to be encouraging the formation of a party within the party to overthrow the, Government m the new session.
BABE BRUCE: “Do not fear, sister. I have brought my wooden sword.”
newspapers from all over the U.S. and
makes recommendations for their improve-
ment which are mostly adopted”); the
Upholsterers’ Union (“which performs a
similar service and trains new workers”);
the prosperous Carpetweavers’ Union, and
so on. In Germany also:—
“The Unions have contributed greatly to
the building up of industrial prosperity. They
have exerted, and still exert, a great deal of
influence in the conduct of factories and
other enterprises.”
It is much the same in highly mechanised
Italy, in France, and to an extent in Britain,
which is getting away from the suicidal
atmosphere of class hatred that is to blame
for much of its unemployment.
The chief handicap of the industries of
Australia is that they have to compete
against overseas industries whose workers
are led, not by eloquent buffoons, but by
practical men of affairs. Men, that is, who
are capable of talking something better
than strike. Since the national strength of
a country is conditioned by its financial
and industrial strength, the Commonwealth,
as it produces less and borrows more to
pay for its strikes, is growing weaker rela-
tively to its progressive rivals. Salvation
lies in the appearance of leaders on both
sides who will grasp that hate-propaganda,
as between employer and employed, is
suicide.
♦
N.S.W. Soldier Settlers.
For a number of years the great majority
of N. S. Wales Digger settlers have been
fighting a losing battle on inadequate areas
of land. Following repeated requests by
the R. S. League to secure a number of
reforms in the administration of Soldier
Settlements, the State Cabinet has sanc-
tioned the constitution of three divisional
boards to inquire into the home-mainten-
ance question. Each board is to consist
of a Government nominee, a Diggers’ rep-
resentative and a district resident of some
standing.
The most urgent need is for a searching
local inquiry into every Digger settler’s
case. Judgment formed on the spot by a
mobile board, and its recomnjendation to
the Minister as to whether a settler should
be allotted additional land, or whether in
the best interests of himself and the depart-
ment he should quit, with adequate com-
pensation, in order to provide more room
for a better-qualified neighbor, is the speed-
iest and most desirable manner in which
burdens might be lifted and disabilities
adjusted. Most of the huge loss on soldier
settlement is due to men failing on areas
non-productive of sufficient to meet Crown
liabilities after paying living expenses.
In the past, when a Digger’s block was
forfeited or abandoned, unpaid land instal-
ment, interest and loan account, together
with capital improvement values, were dras-
tically cut away prior to its reallotment,
often to a man of the land-hungry class,
who threatens to be a liability on the
State for the same old reason—because the
block will not maintain him. In other
cases, additional to cutting losses the De-
partment has considerably increased some
areas for the benefit of incoming non-
soldier applicants. In a number of these
instances the outgoing Digger thus becomes
the victim of a rotten deal. Most of these
vacated blocks could and should have been
resurveyed and reallotted in portions to
neighboring Diggers yet hanging on.
The placing of inexperienced men on the
land is claimed to be the reason for so
many failures; yet many such hung on year
after year, buying, at excessive cost, a good
farming experience on extended credit.
Under existing conditions the present debt,
with its attendant interest, is too heavy for
them to carry into the future. But if most
of their holdings were increased in area,
roughly, by 40 per cent., it should enable
them to carry enough sheep to hold on in
spite of an occasional future crop failure.
A proved living area would mean a
higher value all round per acre. Fully 90
per cent, of N. S. Wales soldier settlers
might easily be turned into a valuable
asset to the Commonwealth if afforded
such means to make good and to support
their dependants.
The Position in Westralia.
Westralia's Collier Government was
anxious to wind up the financial year with
a surplus, for it is preparing to go to the
country early in 1930; but it had to an-
nounce a deficit of £275,960. There was a
drop of £51,800 in railway revenue, due, as
the Government explains, to the waterside
strike and the decline in the wheat yield;
and there was a jump of £172,400 in railway
expenditure, due, as the Government
doesn’t explain, to higher wages, reduced
hours, long-service leave for the wages staff
and other favors granted by kind-hearted
Labor politicians and lawyers.
During the two years to June 30 the
Railways Commissioner returned profits
amounting to £52,000—a praiseworthy
achievement, considering, among other
things, that he has to find £2 10s. a ton and
upwards for Newcastle coal. But political
and Arbitration Court interference is making
it impossible for him to pay his way. For
additional workers’-compensation insurance
he had to produce £14,700 in one year; long-
service leave for the wages staff cost another
£42,900; an Arbitration Court award to one
union ran away with £24,000, and the recent
basic-wage increase will dispose of a further
£50,000. How this harassed public servant
must pray that legislators and Arbitration
Court Judges would let him alone!
Had the permanent provisions of the
financial agreement been in force last year,
instead of taking effect from July 1, 1929,
Westralia, the Government says, would
have had £350,000 less to pay in interest and
sinking fund, and that would have meant
a surplus of £74,000. On the other hand,
Collier and co. received a special Common-
wealth grant of £300,000.
Westralia can no longer rely on receiving
snecial Commonwealth grants, but it looks
like being able to get along without them.
The dramatic recovery of the wheat market
assures the farmers of an excellent price for
their next season’s grain, and crop prospects
are so good that John Thomson, manager
of the State . wheat pool, predicts a 40-
million-bushel harvest—and he is no un-
reasoning optimist. From Jan. 1 to the
middle of July all the recognised wheat-
growing districts had from eight to eleven
inches of rain, and the bulk of it came at
the right time. Among its other conse-
quences, the rain has washed away opposi-
tion to the 3500-farms scheme. The pro-
ject will, nevertheless, need very careful
handling. There should be no place m it
for ambitious novices without resources.
*
Josiah Bounderby, Mill-owner.
The upheaval in the British cotton trade
can’t be dismissed with a curse at the
capitalist or a proposal to “nationalise
things. The Cold Country carries a com-
plicated load of humanitarian obligations.
It provides sickness allowances, disablement
allowances, and, where required, a baby
bonus of 40s. A widow in difficulties is
entitled to 10s. per week till her old-age
pension commences, with child allowances
till the offspring is of money-earning age
and can formally join the unemployed.
Orphans have a provision of their own,
the amount being 7s. 6d. per week. Un-
employment insurance is a separate busi-
ness. The money required is made up in
odd ways, but one of them is that the em-
pays for National Pensions and
Health insurance Is. 6d. per week per male
worker and Is. Id. per week per female.
He deducts 9d. and 7d. respectively from
the worker, which leaves him to carry 9d.
per week for the toiling Adam and 6d. for
Eve. Unemployment insurance costs the
employer Bd. per week per male over 18
(the employee also pays 7d.), and 7d. per
week for each female over 18 (another 6d.
is deducted from the girl herself). The
employer says that the addition of Is. sd.
per week to the male wage is a staggering
impost in a country where wages aren’t
high, and the employee says that the
deduction of Is. 4d. per week is too much
to be borne.
Employers say that the present wages
are impossible with the humanitarian exac-
tions added. And employees say that they
can’t stand a reduction, and that the im-
possibility doesn’t matter. As Britain will
not put a gloss on the situation by floating
huge foreign loans as Australia does, that
disreputable expedient is barred.
In the event of a great strike the em-
ployer’s contribution of so much per worker
would cease because he would have no
workers, and the employee’s would stop
because he, or she, would no longer be an
employee. And unless the Treasury could
find the difference there would be a tragic
gap in humanitarian legislation.
The scramblesome system is already in
difficulties enough. In 1926-27 the contri-
butions dragged from employers and
employees brought £20,340,065 into the un-
employment fund, while the outgoings, by
reason of the stupendous bloat of the
problem, were £38,688,783. That left
over £18,000,000 for the Treasury to liqui-
date.
In a case like this it is the stereotyped
thing to point to the wealth, often real
but sometimes imaginary, of Josiah
Bounderby, the factory owner. But even
though Josiah made a great pile before
the new humanitarian charges were heaped
on to him, that doesn’t prevent him losing
money now. The MacDonalds attained
office just in time to receive the Board of
Trade report, based on opinions gathered
both from employers and employees, that
the textile industries should be protected.
It put the report in the waste-paper basket,
and announced that it scorned the idea of
giving assistance to its people in the manner
which the United States and other countries
have found so serviceable. So the Bounder-
bts of Britain announced a reduction in
wages. In 1928 Britain’s imports of “cotton
yarn and manufactures” showed an increase
of £BIB,OOO for the year, while the value of
J. Bull’s cotton exports was £54,000,000
less than in 1924. Cutting down wages is
a crude expedient; but in view of these
figures it probably is the only one left for
Bounderby.
♦
Brisbane Wants a Commission Now.
Brisbane is the latest to start a movement
for government by Commission. Greater
Brisbane’s 20 aldermen have increased the
cost of administration by nearly £400,000
in five years, and they have run the city’s
debt up to nearly £18,000,000. It always
happens, even where, as in Brisbane, there
is no suggestion of “graft.” Paid aldermen
are amateurs, who keep their jobs by get-
ting money spent in their wards; commis-
sioners are experts whose best advertise-
ment is the economies they effect. Which
explains why ratepayers in cities like Syd-
ney, Dublin and Toronto fight like tigers
to save their cities from a resumption of
the political touch.
Yet it should not be so. For in the last
analysis the eagerness with which the public
turns to Commission rule is a confession of
the failure of popular government. It is
significant that at least once a week nowa-
days The Bulletin receives from someone
or other a cry for a dictator. That demo-
cracy should be regarded as having so
thoroughly broken down is a great misfor-
tune. The best thing to do about it is for
democratic Governments to gradually with-
draw from those fields wherein they have
most failed. And they always tend to fail
where they handle much money.
Why Not a Fair Thing?
Dear Bulletin, —One political faction
monopolises the tart shop and will not allow
the other as much as a smell of the con-
tents. This keeps them at each other’s
throats, and the country’s affairs, which
they are supposed to be managing, have to
take pot luck.
I suggest that the Bruce party, which has
had a reasonable time in the confectionery
emporium, should step out and politely
hold the door open for Mr. Scullin and
his peris to come in. It need not make
any difference to the government of. the
Commonwealth. With its majority the
Bruceites could control legislation and admin-
istration from the outside as easily as from
the inside. As a matter of fact, one party
governing through the instrumentality of
another usually obtains better results than
when governing in spite of it and against
its fanatical opposition.
The Rob-Koy principle of the present
system compels the faction inside to borrow
and tax unmercifully to get money for
buying the votes necessary to keep it there.
The supply cannot last for ever. Let’s
try the other plan.—Yours, etc., Sydney
North.


GAEL/ c
RES
iskv
■
RED, WHITE and BLUE
WHISKY
Gaelic Special Reserve
DEARER BUT BETTER
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO., LTD.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN AGENTS: JAMES HENTY & CO., 499 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: B. SEPPELT & SONS, LTD., 444 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
©AEL/ C
jrS WKiSv
rpf«T6ao-07$.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Prime Minister fled from Canberra
when the coldest day in that bleak spot's
record arrived, and went to help with the
Balaclava election. There he told a sym-
pathetic feminine audience that “with a few
good seasons there would be a revolution in
the financial and economic position of the
Commonwealth.” But he said nothing about
knocking 30 or 40 million pounds per annum
off the bill for imports, and thus giving a
better chance to industries which are not
dependent on that scapegoat the weather.
Drastic restriction of imports w r ould not only
save money but provide work. When fac-
tory employment begins to go down that
isn’t because of the seasons. It is rotten
mismanagement.
The ejection of the Russians from Man-
churia is part of the new “China for the
Chinese” movement. If the manoeuvre suc-
ceeds, fresh impetus will be given to the
clamor against other Powers. That is why
many foreigners in China are not particu-
larly pleased to see the Soviet taking the
blow lying down, or to see White Russian
armies under Hetman Semenoff being mobil-
ised on the side of the Celestial.
By the casting vote of Speacock the
McPherson Government was saved from
defeat in Vic. Assembly on a matter it had
declared vital —increase of salaries of the
Tinder-Sec. of the Chief Sec.’s Department,
the sec. of the Law Department, and other
high officials. The rises were provided for
on the Supplementary Estimates, and the
Country Progs, voted with Labor. It took
a special Nationalist meeting and an infor-
mal Country-party chat to stiffen the ranks
of Government supporters. The incident
showed how undependable are the Progs, and
how much the Nat. team is living on suffer-
ance. It now looks as if there will be a poll
in October.
N.S.W. Minister Thorby wants the banks
to make long-dated advances out of their
short-dated deposits to distressed farmers.
He brightened up a meeting of Agricultural
Conference delegates with the information
that “hundreds of settlers are head over ears
in debt, and calling to the Government for
aid, not altogether through bad seasons, but
through hire-purchase contracts for luxuries.”
Some oi them, he added, were paying 15 per
cent, interest on superfluous purchases, and
he had located people who had signed agree-
ments with 17 separate creditors. After
that the banks will naturally endanger their
necks rushing to assist.
Preference to ex-warriors in the Com-
monwealth service is becoming a sham. One
of the jobs being created in External Affairs
while hundreds of war veterans are being
sacked from Defence is open to appli-
cants between the ages of 21 to 30, “prefer-
ence to be given returned sailors and soldiers
with the necessary qualifications.” Perhaps
the mule-headed authors of the advertise-
ment expect a rush of applications from
soldiers who were at the Landing wheu they
were seven.
An event periodically reported from Japan
is the arrival of Labor windbags from Aus-
tralia, bound for a conference at Vladivos-
tock or some other Red Russian fastness
and presumably keen on a chat with the
Bolshies who are stirring up trouble in
Japan, Apparently the latest party didn’t
bother to get its passports vised at Sydney,
and the Japanese authorities refused to let
it land. The report indicates that the
held-up gang went whining to the represen-
tative of “British imperialism.” 110w r char-
acteristic of the breed!
Digger Forrest protested in Vic. Assembly
the other day that he and Digger Gray were
Liberals and not Independents. A back-bencher
asked ironically which Liberal was chairman
of the party committee. Forrest, looking
pointedly at members of the Railways Stand-
ing Committee, replied, “We tako it in turns.”
The shot told, for in recent years the chair-
manship of that committee has gone round.
Every member has a turn for six months,
during which he draws £3O more than he
would as an ordinary member.
There are two or three thousand little
Sydney businesses which may collapse if
the Bavinshaws amend the Early Closing
Act. They retail fruit, vegetables, groceries,
bread, milk, pills, tobacco and soft drinks, and
do the bulk of their trade after sundown and
on Sundays—principally with wage-earners.
If they go. unemployment and much public
ADVERTISING IT.
“The strikers’ march from Newcastle to Sydney will cost £20,000 each way.”
RELUCTANT MARCHER: “Look at the money it’s going to cost!”
STRIKE LEADER: “But look at the advertisement I’m going to get.”
inconvenience will follow, and nothing will
be maintained except the sacred right of
Smith to make Brown loaf.
Driven by protests from non-official whites
in New Guinea, the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment will probably introduce a bill
providing for a nominated Leg. Coun-
cil in the Mandated Territory, as in
Papua. In Papua, and in the Crown
colonies as well, care is taken that
the official representation on the “delibera-
tive” body outweighs the non-official element.
Still, the latter has the satisfaction of being
able to voice its opinions, even if nothing
results.
“Uncle Arthur” Henderson, Britain’s new
Foreign Secretary, who has shocked the
Tories by asking Lord Lloyd to resign the
High Commissionership of Egypt, makes a
habit of doing such things. As a member
of the War Cabinet, he exasperated Lloyd
George by opposing the Government’s Rus-
sian policy, and as Home Secretary, he
embarrassed the first Labor Government by
signing the Geneva Protocol. He believes in
deferring to the Gyppos, a policy which Allen-
by disliked the Diggers for deriding.
So far from hampering the sale of Queens-
land steak and sirloin, the new Vic. regula-
tioiis requiring all frozen and imported meat
to be labelled as such will have the opposite
effect. People are now asking for Queens-
land beef. Pressed by the Country Progs,
and some of the Cockies, the McPherson
Ministry felt it had to make a show of
doing something to create a better demand
for Vic. fresh meat, but it was by no means
enthusiastic.
The Maori is famous in sport, but in
other fields of endeavor he makes little
progress. At the instance of Apirana Ngata,
Minister of Native Affairs, an economic sur-
vey of the race has been decided upon.
Preliminary work lias revealed some very
distressful conditions among the tribes in the
Waikato. Oddly enough, wheu the Minister
said in Parliament that the survey was
overdue and that in some trespdets his
brethren were deteriorating, white members
indignantly protested, some of them shouting,
“What about 1914?”
Tasmanians are apt to sneer bitterly nowa-
days at Sydney’s claims to be regarded as
an Empire City, like Dindon and New York.
Strikes organised in Sydney, they say, nearly
ruined their tourist trade: and when the
floods brought sorrow and desolation to the
islet Sydney’s contribution, to the relief funds
was less than that of the Victorian school
children. And now that Tas. potatoes are
dear as an after-effect of the floods, the Syd-
ney Housewives’ Association lias arranged a
boycott. The ladies protest that they are
aiming at Sussex-strect, but they arc hitting
the Speck.
The Speck’s Parliament has gone iuto
recess to allow McPbee to prepare liis finan-
cial statement. During the brief session
£75,000 was voted for repair of roads and
bridges damaged by the floods, another
£75,000 for interest-free loans to farmers
whose crops were washed away, £25,000 as
a first instalment of the cost of railway
replacements, and £17,000 for the dependants
of the men who were drowned in the Briscis
mine. _ And this is only portion of the bill
that will have to be met. Minister Lee even
proposes to cut out expenditure on roads. In
face of these measures, the Sydney potato
boycott looks heartless as well as silly. For
at this time of year Sydney gets most of its
spuds from Tasmania.
A mixed crowd of 17 gypsies, the kind
that has been defined as “half devil and
half dirt,” knocked lately at the sea-door
of N.S.W. They were all related, and
included early fathers, early mothers and
very early infants. The language of the
Moses of the movement was the fish-
emporium variety of Greek; his skin was
Romany, and his hat was comic-opera bri-
gand. They were supposed to have some
claims to United States citizenship, like
Paul Freeman of the early war days, and
the boss Moses was ready with threats of
throat-cutting when annoyed. They had to
start back for home early, which they did in
a flutter of garish colors suggestive of Vesu-
vius enjoying its washing-day eruption. It
is said that the British Consul at Honolulu
was more or less an inciting cause of the
trouble, and that charge should be investi-
gated.
Members of the N.S.W. Furnishing Trade
Union were recently supplied with a list of
14 ways in which they may incur the wrath
of the union powers and fall in for a fine.
These include neglect to report change of
address, applying for work without first con-
sulting the office, failure to attend any meet-
ing when summoned, failure to act as in-
former in case of any breach of the society’s
rules, being noil-financial, and acting in a
derogatory manner towards the shop steward.
Now a Sydney member of the Liquor Trade
Union has been fined £1 10s. with £1 Gs. 6d.
costs, in default 14 days’ imprisonment, for
non-attendance at a union meeting. Chief-
Stipendiary Gates spoke heatedly about the
injustice of the proceeding, hut said he could
do nothing. Not so Attorney-General Latham
—he can at least ask for an explanatiou
from the Registrar who presumably sanc-
tioned this particular union rule.
Sydney strikers against the Lukin award
were threatened with all sorts of punishment
if they absented themselves from the burning
of the Judge’s effigy and the Court’s ballot-
papers. Presumably any of them who failed
to attend u meeting designed to conceit
fresh basher-gang outrages, or intimidate
another lot of Judges and policemen, can be
haled before a magistrate, and that func-
tionary must inflict a fine and send the man
to gaol if he won’t pay. N. S. Wales has
become the world’s paradise for bullies and
conspirators.
One paper, which is much too respectable
to make a jest of holy things, recently pub-
lished an item about Treasurer Stevens’s pros-
pects and purposes under the heading: “Loan
Expenditure: A Halt in N.S.W.” It went
on to say that: the loan expenditure for
1929-30 “would not be more than
£11,000.000,” whereas last year it was
£16,740,000. a State record since Australia
began. In other words, the speed hog will
halt from GO miles per hour to 55. Stevens
isn’t mentioned as saying that ho has pro-
fitable investments for £11,000,000, and lie
certainly hasn’t.
The renewal of dip-
lomatic relations with
Russia will mean the
settlement of Bol-
shevik emissaries in
the Empire, like those
whom Britain had to
eject from their fort-
ress in London for
conspiracy against the
State and stealing of
Government papers.
Prime Minister Bruee
has replied, without
waiting to consult
Parliament, that there
is no objection so fa"
as the Commonwealth
is concerned, provided
the visitors don’t in-
dulge in Bolshevik
propaganda. Yet they
will indulge in propa-
ganda, and the dis-
turbers who now go
periodically to Mos-
cow for instructions
can’t bo prevented
from consulting tin-
authorised . Bolshevik
agencies here for the
same purpose. Then
are no commercial in-
terests involved. At
last advices Australia
bought from Russia
£70,854 worth of goods
in a year, and Russia
bought in. return to
the value of £1092.
Extract from the monthly circular of a
Sydney sharebroking firm, Buzacott and
McKeown:—
It is understood that the requirements of the
various States for the ensuing year, that is new
money, totalled £45,000,000, but this has been cut
down to £30,000,000. Even if the latter sum is
correct, it is likely to create difficulties, if it has to
be all raised locally, which seems more than prob-
able in the present state of the London and New
York markets.
And in the present state of the balance of
trade there remains the problem of finding
real money with which to pay interest
abroad, the paper proceeds of a local loan
being of no use.
Commonwealth Statistician Wickens esti-
mates the losses on Australian Government
railways in 1927-28 at £4,957,000. Dismiss-
ing this fact as a trifle, the council of the
A.R.U., which met in Brisbane the other
day, declared against the “menace of piece-
work and bonus systems,” and for a 40-
hour week, the Pan-Pacific Secretariat and
first-class passes for railwaymen and their
families going on holidays. It decided further
that “the only effective solution of working-
class problems is by the education, organisa-
tion and action of the workers along the
lines of seizing and controlling industry.”
This is the entire Moscow box of tricks.
There are 60,000 Australians in the A.R.U.
It would be interesting to know what they
think about it.
[For matter which has to be signed, S. H. Prior.
J. E. Webb and James Edmond, all of 214 George-
street North, Sydney, share the blame.]
ROMANY RYE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A party ot 17 gypsies from the U.S.A. were
refused admission to the Commonwealth by direction
of the Minister for Home Affairs, and returned to
Honolulu by the Aoratigi.”
The Romany lad and the Romany lass.
Their glamor fades as the centuries pass;
The vague allurement about their lives
Only in opera survives.
These be evil days for the nomad throng,
Once famed for magic and limned in song,
When nowhere waiteth a welcome glad
For the Romany lass and the Romany lad.
It's “Right About Face!” and “Keep Off the
Grass!”
For the Romany lad and the Romany lass,
For the tinkering, fortune-telling clan
Of the Open Road and the dingy van,
Who spar for silver and dusty browns
And were once a feature of Epsom downs,
Though even there, ’twould seem, they’ve had
Enough of the Romany lass and lad.
The Romany lad and the Romany lass,
Old writers gave them a touch of class,
With a wizard beauty of form and face
(Read old George Borrow about the race).
There was something about them quaint and
strange,
But the charm soon vanished at closer range,
.And a faint olfactory bar forbade
Approach too close to the Romany lad.
The Romany lad and the Romany lass!
She would read your palm with the usual
gas,
And he’d snare a rabbit or tickle a trout
With the wiliest Gorgio roundabout.
Whence came they, shifting and shiftless
clan—
Was it darkest Egypt or Hindustan?
Who knows? But no room’s for ’em here,
begad!
The Romany lass and the Romany lad.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“(Jp North": Whatever truth there may
he in the persistent reports received at
North Australian police stations that two
white women are held captive by the myalls
of Caledon Bay (B. 24/7/529.)., there is
plenty of precedent for such happenings.
('lose to Thursday Island is Prince of Wales
Island, where Mrs. Barbara Thompson was
in the hands of the Murrahig men for seven
rears. Her husband had been in charge
of the cutter America, and she was saved
NO GOOD UNGUMMING THEM.
Old Moneybags: “Though I’ve known you only a few months,
Clarice, I feel that I can already read you like a book.”
CLARICE: “Well, if you love me, Nathaniel, you’ll skip a few
chapters that I’ve turned down.”
from the wreck. Deliverance came to her
bv the merest chance, when a party of
officers from H.M.S. Rattlesnake went
ashore on a pigeon-shooting expedition. The
wife of the captain of the Speerweer met
a worse fate in the same island, after her
husband and the crew had been murdered
bv the natives. 11l treatment caused her
death Lower down the Queensland coast,
where the Stirling Castle smashed up, Mrs.
Frazer the captain’s wife, was saved from
the •’•eneral massacre. She suffered horrors
fur two months, when a Government ship
rescued her. The fate of a white woman
who was with a castaway crew on Moa
Island can only be guessed at. For years old
natives used to tell how, while the white
men were being clubbed, the woman ran
screaming up the densely-clad scrub peak ot
big Moa. The head-hunters let her go tor
the time being, and never found a trace ot
lier again. So far as Caledon Bay is con-
cerned, it is the wildest spot in Australia,
and its natives are the most savage and
bloodthirsty. # * *
“Narara”: Domestic mix-ups? I know a
woman in a Sydney suburb with two Digger
husbands. She had been married only a
few months in August. 1914, and her hus-
band promptly enlisted. He was reported
killed at Gallipoli, and she promptly re-
married. Her second husband soon joined
up, and while he was away No. 1 retuined,
even as Enoch Arden. Unlike that worthy,
however, he disclosed himself, and when his
successor returned to claim his wife, he
found the Anzac man in possession. But
the three remain oh the best of terms, and
no law courts have been invoked.
* * * *
“R.W.K.” : The recent discovery of a man-
woman deception in South Australia (B.
24/7/’29) was entirely acci-
dental. A young laborer who
had been working on a farm
for about seven months was
told that his services would
not be required further, as
the farmer’s brother was ar-
riving to help run the farm.
The young man seemed very
despondent, and begged to be
allowed to remain, at all
events until he could find
work elsewhere. His request
was refused, and thereupon
lie disappeared, leaving his
belongings behind. Before
notifying the police the
farmer searched the young
man’s baggage to find What
was his name—apparently
he didn’t even know that.
What he did find was a
pathetic letter in which the
writer confessed to being a
girl. She liad adopted the
masquerade when 14, and
had developed a beard by
continual shaving and the
use of hair-growing lotions.
She begged that her secret be
kept, for “she would die of
' shame and humiliation if it
whs revealed.” And kept it
has been.
* * *
“X.D.” : The first petition for divorce in
Victoria under the late H'ogan Government’s
innovation of free counsel for needy litigants
had some curious features. The petitioner
married his wife in 1887. The inevitable
mother-in-law caused the usual squabbles,
and in 1889 matters came to a crisis. Hubby
walked out of the house in a huff, to return
20 minutes later just in time to see his
spouse and her female parent walking down
the street, the first with a looking-glass under
her arm and the other staggering under one
of his washstands. As he had given liis
wife all his money that morning, he was left
destitute; and apparently 40 years had not
sufficed to repair that financial disaster.
* * *
“Chevroford”: It will not be surprising if
Vic. motorists soon become stone-deaf to
appeals for lifts.
Recently a man
driving home late
at night obligingly
picked up a pedes-
trian in the middle
of Melbourne. He
had no sooner
started off again
than he felt some-
thing hard pushed
into his ribs, and
was gruffly ordered
to drive to a ren-
dezvous where, the
passenger ex-
plained, there would
be a cobber waiting
for him. After
cruising about for
some time without
encountering his
friend the motor-
pad ordered his
quarry to proceed
elsewhere, and a
long and dreary
drive ensued, only
enlivened when the
passing of an occa-
sional policeman
drew fresh blood-
thirsty threats from
the gent, with the
revolver. Finally
the motorist found
himself outside his
own home, minus
car, overcoat and
valuables. Hater
the same night an-
other motorist was
treated very simi-
larly, it is suspec-
ted by the same
bandit. Nor does
giving daylight
rides to strangers
appeal to local car-
owners. A man re-
cently gave a lift
to a distressed
female, got involved
in an accident and
was presently sued
by his passenger
for damages and
hospital expenses. That bit of road cour-
tesy cost him £4OO.
* *
“Eureka” : This is not a boast but merely
to show the endurance and responsiveness
of the human body. As a result of a
German bullet I was for over four years
in bed in one hospital, and during that
period had 17 general amesthetics. For 18
months I was on my back without a pillow
and with a 161 b. weight hanging from one
leg. The remarkable part is this. Two and
a half inches of bone was taken out of
each hip and false joints made. Before
these operations I was six feet two inches
in height, but now I am only five feet eleven
and a half inches, and walking again after
a lapse of seven years. Are there any other
cases of men being surgically shortened,
except in the case of double amputations.
*** . *
“Murkah”: A recent cable suggests that
the P. and O. line is about to cease employ-
ing Lascars. The reason why they were
originally employed is forgotten nowaday*.
In the early days of the goldfields ships
crews —and sometimes the skipper with them
—would desert and head for Bendigo or
Ballarat. Lubbock records that in dune,
1852, 50 ships were lying crewless in lion-
CONGRATULATIONS.
BILLY: “Father, you promised me a shilling if I behaved myself at the party."
FATHER: “Yes, sonny."
BILLY: “Well, father, you’ve saved a bob!
son’s Bay. The mail steamer Australian
had to be helped away with a detachment ol
volunteers from lI.M. brig Fantome. The
redoubtable Bully Forbes, when he heard
the state of affairs, thoughtfully charged his
entire crew with insubordination on the day
of arrival, and got them clapped in gaol.
On sailing-day lie withdrew the charge and
sailed with a full crew. But that soit
of thing couldn’t be done twice. In
desperation the shipping cos. sought men
for whom gold rushes had no attraction, and
the dog-eyed Lascar stepped into the breach.
* * * *
“A.A.G.” : Among the lighter incidents of
the M.L. ’quake was the experience of a
young man who was in the barber s chair
at Nelson when the earth began to rock.
The panic-stricken operator dropped the
razor and bolted for the street, with his
customer, still profusely lathered, close be-
hind him. The latter almost stumbled over
a young woman who had fainted on the
pavement, and, pulling himself together car-
ried the inanimate girl into the middle or
the street, which seemed the safest accessible
place. Presently the girl recovered con-
sciousness, opened her eyes, caught sight of
the face of her preserver, and —fainted again!
* * * *
“Slide Rule”: Germany’s new Emden, out
here on a goodwill cruise, reminds me of a
talk I had in Berlin with an ex-gunner of
her predecessor. This versatile fellow, a
pre-war spy and sausage salesman in various
British canteens, eye-witnessed the encounter,
and bitterly complained to me, not only that
the Emden had surrendered 18 minutes be-
fore the Sydney ceased fire, but —which he
seemed to consider even more outrageous —
that he had been left in the water three-
quarters of an hour before being rescued.
He finished his term of military service in
Liverpool (N.S.W.) Camp, where, he frankly
admitted, he was treated so well that he
received his deportation order with regret.
He now employs his polylingual talent guid-
ing Cook's tourists around Potsdam.
% sjs ❖ ❖
“Nikko” : Post-divorce situations are some-
times a trifle complicated. A few years ago a
Sydney citizen divorced hig wife and the co-
respondent duly married the lady, the ex-
husband, with a new wife, taking up the
struggle in another State. The seven-year-old
daughter of the marriage was disposed of in
a boarding-school. Then the lady in the case
transferred her affections to another swain,
and for the second time the Judge in divorce
heard all about her goings-on. The only per-
son overlooked by all parties was the child,
and when the boarding-school began to
clamor for unpaid fees the first co-respondent
developed a conscience, and, doubtless con-
sidering he was partly responsible for the
youngster’s homeless condition, shouldered
the liability. He also visited the girl, took
her round to various juvenile entertainments,
and presently found himself left as sole pro-
vider for her. When he married some time
later lie took the child into his home, where
the 15-year-old girl is now presented to
strangers as his daughter. When, after a
lapse of some years, her actual father sug-
gested taking charge of her, the most em-
phatic protest came from the girl herself,
who was equally irresponsive to the overtures
of her mother, now established in London.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Stage attempts to stir up
horror by realistic means generally fail. The
leper who decorates “The Zeppelin Terror’
in Melbourne only moved me (and most of
my neighbors') to laughter. On the other
hand, I am never likely to forget the sensa-
tions I experienced when I came across
a real sufferer from the disease. It was m
a Malay village. I was accompanying an
English district officer on his periodic round
of inspection. The D.O. had gone off to
examine the local water supply, and I was
waiting in the one and only street when a
young woman came along, tottering under
what looked like an immense heap of rags.
She lowered the bundle carefully to the
(•round, and commenced collecting alms, which
came so readily that I asked the reason
why. The bundle of rags, it appeared, was
her husband. They had been married only
six months when he developed the complaint
When the disease made him helpless she had
started carrying him about, She had car-
ried him hundreds of miles, always keeping
to the most unfrequented parts. While she
was talking, a man bent down and shouted
in the bundle’s ear something to the euect
that the district officer was about, and it
he wasn’t careful he’d be popped into the
Government lazaretto. No response came
from the bundle, but the look that passed over
the woman’s face would have fitted a
Madonna. She hurriedly lifted her grisly
burden on her back and made off the way
she had come.
“Onockymarsh”: Recently somebody cited
as a record the case of a Digger who re-
mained a corporal for five years. I can
beat it. Nig Cockin, 4th Coy., Ist A.D/1.,
was gazetted a corporal in the first batch
of South Aus. n.c.o.’s, and held that rank
until his return to Australia after six years
and 50 days’ service overseas.
“X.D.”: Recently the Melbourne Fire
Brigade got a call from a street-alarm. Five
appliances turned out, and 19 men hurried
to the spot with commendable despatch.
When they arrived they found the street
empty except for two figures struggling on
the ground. Having been dragged off his
opponent, a pugnacious gentleman admitted
having given the alarm, but explained that
he did it because he thought somebody would
be in need of an ambulance. When charged
with • making a false alarm, he retorted,
“False alarm ! Cripes, look at the bloke’s
face!”
* * * *
“C.Q.” : The heads of a Melbourne firm
were recently very much concerned over the
apparent sudden rise to fortune of one of their
employees who filled the position and drew
the modest emoluments of a messenger boy.
On several occasions the boy had been ob-
served long after office hours leaving the
building with a heavily-loaded sack. When
he arrived on duty one morning on a beauti-
ful new motor-bike suspicion flamed into
certainty. The young man was shadowed
and in due course the source of his gains
was disclosed. He was in the habit of going
up to the flat roof and scattering petrol-
soaked wheat, The grain attracted the
pigeons, thousands of which inhabit the
peaks of Melbourne’s business range, and the
intoxicating spirit did the rest. The birds
were taken home, and, when they had sobered
up, sold at the markets for a good price.
$ * ❖
“Armiger”: There seems something bor-
dering on a historical tragedy in the
announcement that the oldest pub in Eng-
land, the Chandos Arms in the Edgeware-
road (London), has been closed. The inn
is alleged to have taken its name from Sir
John Chandos, that mirror of chivalry who
fought at Crecy and Poictiers, and was
later ignominiously slain in a friendly duel
with a French knight, who was passing the
French estaminet where Sir J ohn was
having a spot. The old gentleman insisted
on keeping on the long surtout he wore
over his armor, and, tripping on this,
became an easy mark for his opponent. The
ancient London tavern, one of _ the ten
thousand or so in England which Dick
Turpin is said to have frequented, is to
become a motor garage, so it will still retain
the highwayman flavor.
BOTTLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There's a wise guy once sez that there s s< r-
mons in stones,
In the creeks, an’ the gums, an the wattles.
Don’t know about that, but I certainly owns
That there’s plenty of stories in bottles.
Lord love me, since I gave the bizness a burl,
I could write you a whole book about cm,
But I’ll tell you a few (steady, Poitrel, ole
girl!), , ,
An’ they’re true, though there s some as
would doubt ’em.
Bottle oil! Bottlc-oli! Enny bottles to-
day? _ ,
Yes, Missus, I'm cow in' right over the way.
There’s a bloke at that ’ouse on the ’ill-
name of Slade —
A reel wowser bloke, strike me bandy.
When I gathers ’is empties each month from
the maid,
Well, they're champagne an ospital
brandy. ~ „
“The doctor ’as ordered em for Im, sez
she. , .
“An’ ’e sez that ’is ’cart’s very poonsli.
“Well, Sister,” sez I, “that there quack 11
do me
When I gets the Jemima Pectoorish.
Bottle-oli ! Bottlc-oli ! Enny bottles for sale?
(Right, Missus; but 1 ain't 'is Majesty s
mail!)
There’s a shabby old man, an’ there’s no
empty “beers”
In a shabby old room where there, s lyin
'ls mate and ’is sweetheart for fifty-six years,
’An he tells me the ole lady’s dyin .
\n’ I notice ’is empties is invalid port,
An’ I think that there’s something more
’oly
In 'im than the wowser bloke holding the
fort
On brandy an’ dry Monopoley.
Oh, there's stories in bottles (yes, cornin’,
Ma’am, now).
Thanhs, Mister, I will—girrup, Poitrel, yer
coic !)
N.S.W.
HORACE HALLORAN.


“Tahune”: Some of our early-day Gov-
ernors wives weren’t content to be merely
social figureheads. In 1838 Lady Jane
h ranknn. the energetic dame who was mis-
tress of Tas. Government House, conceived the
idea of emulating Saint Patrick by banishing
snakes from the Speck. She proposed to
do it at her own expense, too, offering a
shilling a head for adult reptiles. Bushmen
and countryfolk soon got busy and rolled up
to the appointed checking places with thou-
sands. In the Longford district alone 1200
head were tallied and paid for. The experi-
ment lasted only one season; when her Ex.
had paid out £6OO her enthusiasm weakened.
* * * *
“800 l Errol”: The town of Peron, situated
on one of the peninsulas of Sharks Bay
(W.A.), has streets paved with mother-of-
pear]. Sharks Bay has perhaps the most
prolific beds of pearl in the world. No
divers are used in these waters, trawling
being universal, and instead of the catch
being opened at sea it is brought into Peron
for examination, and what shell is not ex-
ported is used for road metal. No traveller
who has visited Sharks Bay can forget its
smells. The odor is caused by the examiners
QUEER RESULTS IN THE FAMILY.
“Don’t you find that smoking so much affects your complexion?”
“ Doesn't affect mine But m V husband’s goes nearly green when he finds his cigarette-
box empty."
(some of them pretty girls) chucking the
meat into huge “gw Pote.” which, when
’“Hljr W,, m ,ft° for the flesh to
putrefy. Wlien this is done to the satis-
faction of the pearler, the poser pots arc
WV# causing the pearls missed
to fall to the bottom of the pots. The jewels
are recovered as the fetid mess is poured
into the sea, where the tides carry the offal
£ harks ? ay . 1S M so the place of
shark-fishing enterprises. One company
exploiting this industry spent 45000 in pre-
liimnary investigations, and found that over
two million sharks pass through the bay each
Wfj .f>, « el °K’ I L cron . ha l *
hotel which is divided from the shearing-shed
°f. Peron Downs station (the homestead
being in the main street) only by a picket-
fence. The fence disappears while shearing
is on.
«*,r ’•* „ m U • *l. T-n ~ *.
O^ a^ tbese Flemish viragoes
(B. 1.0/1/29), we gave the palm to an esta-
minet madam near Hazebrouk, Instead of
getting away when the neighbors did as a
refugee, she stayed behind to rake in our
cash. We’d already done in two or three
pays on her adulterated bock beer and vin
Wane without awakening a trace of amia-
bility in her. But her lucrative busi-
ness crashed when in the midst of hurling
an extra issue of abuse at us she admitted
she’d rather billet the Bodies than Aus-
tralies. After her speech Madam was locked
securely in an outhouse, and till the sup-
plies of grog ran out drinks were on the
house. Even the M.P.’s arrived too late for
their cut.
* * * *
“Chancery Lane”: About 12 months ago a
lady client of mine was granted a divorce.
Recently she called and inquired, in perfect
seriousness, whether the decree couldn’t be
made “obsolete” —she'd heard that decrees
could be “made “obsolete” after six months.
The couple, I learned, had become reconciled
and desired to re-marry.
* * * *
“Braxy”: The cables are making a fuss
about some Hungarian gypsies who are
alleged to have been practising cannibalism
for years. Even among more or less civilised
persons the taste for human flesh is
not such a thing of the far past as most
people think. Take the case of my own
fellow-countryman, Sawney Bean, of Gallo-
way, who flourished in the reign of James
the First. Sawney and his following dwelt
in an impenetrable labyrinth of caves on
the Galloway coast, living on stolen sheep
cattle and any other odds and ends thej
could pick up, including human beings. Th<
number of children and drunks who dis
appeared on their way home from school oi
market at last roused the countryside t<
action, and Sawney’s stronghold was rooted
out. His following numbered over 200.
and his caves were stocked with smoked
and salted provender, beef, mutton, an
what the South Sea islander was euphe
mistically to term, two or three centurie-
later, “long pig.”
* * * *
“The Hippogryph”: The adoption of one-
class trains in South Australia recalls that
Victoria has, in the Beech Forest narrow-
gauge spur, a railway sub-system that recog-
nises no class distinctions. One day, after
a sitting of the district petty sessions at the
terminus, the democratic car had on board
the police magistrate, counsel on both sides,
witnesses, the sentenced prisoner, his guard
and the usual assortment of Forest denizens.
Prisoner, his escort, three or four witnesses
and a newspaper reporter joined in a hand
of cards. “Did you?” I asked the breezy
Worship who rides that remote circuit, and
who told me the story. “No,” he said, “I
didn’t. I usually join in, but the prisoner
was a criminal with a record and the sen-
tence had been a severe one. I thought I’d
better not!” He left an impression on my
mind that he would have joined if the press
hadn’t been there.
* * * *
n‘' "^ le c^iar S' GS against ex-parson
Garden and the others are almost identical
with those which Sleath and Ferguson had
to answer at Broken Hill 35 years ago—
conspiracy to prevent men doing their lawful
job. Barton and his friend Dick O’Connor
—both afterwards High Court Judges—were
responsible for the prosecution and its form.
Then, as now, some high police officers
dreaded that the arrests would produce
horrors. John Saunders, then an inspector,
now a retired superintendent in Sydney,
laughed. “Give me those warrants,” he said,
‘ and you shall have all your prisoners within
an hour without anybody’s nose bleeding.”
There, was no bleeding. All the accused were
committed, and the cases were set down for
hearing at Deniliouin Of the TnrW*
Labor regard; and the (JovSnment lu/d
him on to the Snnreme Pnnrt <• 1 p
S“ c“e. &ry Ken still was
then member for Tamworth—had begged the
unions to let him manage their case” he got
Jack Want to appear for them ’ Coffev
afterwards District Court Judge was Crown
Prosecutor. The accused averaged about 18
months apiece —and did it. Of the half-
dozen who stood in the dock at Deniliquiir
Ferguson is the only survivor; and when he
reads about basher gangs and mass picketing
h « ProbaLly woudefs why he wfsf't gi ven
an illuminated address instead of a vacation
at Bathurst.
* * * *
“P.M.”: A recent paragraph about the
Digger who burned his paybook recalls the
popular fallacy that destroying such a record
destroyed the debit. The soldier’s paybook
was merely a duplicate of the account kept
at H’orseferry-road, and both were posted
from rolls made up and sent in by the
adjutant or pay-sergeant of the unit. Burn-
ing it no more destroyed the debits therein
than burning your bank passbook would do
away with your overdraft.
* * * *
“Query”: The Melbourne Harbor Trust
building, a two-storeyed edifice erected
towards the end of last century, is being
demolished to make way for something more
skyscraping, and workmen are to be seen at
all hours of the day balanced
precariously on swaying walls
or crumbling chimneys, cheer-
fully knocking away the
masonry from under their feet.
Apparently they didn’t in the
least mind the danger, but the
cold must have worried them,
for during the last chilly snap
they kept a roaring fire burning
in a fireplace standing naked
to the winds in what was once
an upstairs office.
RIVAL PETITIONS
DORCTHY (aged four ): “Please God, make it stop raining so's we can go to the party
to-morrow.”
MARY (aged six) : “Please God, don’t lake no notice of her Make it rain, so’s
mummy’ll take us in a taxi.”
“Macquarie”: “Northesker” is not quite
correct in referring to Settlement Island as
the first outlying convict station in Tas-
mania (B. 10/7/’29). In 1821 an attempt
was made to form a settlement on what was
then known as Sarah Island. A number of
the worst class of convicts, together with
soldiers and warders, were sent from Hobart
Town in charge of a commandant. Four
of the soldiers took their wives with them,
and several children made the rough journey.
The island proved sterile and the climate bad,
and the settlement was abandoned after a few
years, during which starvation threatened
the islanders more than once. But since
those days many a weatherbound fisherman
lias been glad to crawl into the old baker’s
oven, which still remains almost intact.
* * * *
“Exdig”: Many a Digger retains plea-
sant memories of London’s Charing Cross
station, which, according to the cables, it is
contemplated to shift from its Strand front-
age to the south side of the
Thames at a cost of 10 millions
or so. It was the home station
of those who came across from
France on Blighty leave; to
tens of thousands of others it
will always recall the unstinted
helpfulness and kindness of a
multitude of English people who
did their war service at home.
The kindness started at Dover,
where up to the very end of the
war crowds assembled at each
road intersection to give a cheer
as the hospital trains went
through. At Charing Cross
were the voluntary ambulance
men, the reception committees
with their refreshments, and the
flower-girls of Covent Garden
saw to it that every wounded man received
a rose.
* * * *
‘‘Chancery Lane”: The recent decision of
a Victorian Judge that a posthumous child
was not to be considered as issue entitled
to share under the terms of the particular
will ’Sonah was called upon to interpret, was
at variance with the law applying in intes-
tate estates in Victoria. Under an intestacy
a child en ventre sa mere at the time of
the father’s death is entitled to share with
the other issue, the offspring taking two-
thirds of the estate equally between them.
If such unborn child is the only issue, he
or she takes the whole two-thirds. Under
the majority of wills ensuring an estate to
issue, such later-born child would likewise
benefit.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: The official decision to lay
up the survey ship Moresby, on the score
of economy, might well be reconsidered.
Survey work along the Australian coast is
far from being finished; one has only to look
at a chart of Torres Strait waters to realise
how much remains to be done. Even where
surveys were made years ago the chart is
ever changing owing to reef growth, upward
movement of the ocean bottom and the
vagaries of sandbanks. Commander Ben-
nett, of the Geranium, found amongst
other things that some previously-charted
islands were not just where they should
have been according to the old charts, a
fact likely to have serious consequences for
a ship whose skipper trusts too implicitly
in written records. The Fantome and the
Herald have been doing valuable work along
the northern coast of Australia during the
past 10 years, and the Moresby is just as
urgently needed.
* * * *
“Uncle Dick”: There is a clock ticking
away in Euroa
(Vic.) which
started to record
time before the
Battle of Sedge-
moor. An old
"anchor-escapement
action” type, it
bears the date of
16S0, and was
brought to Austra-
lia in 1849. The
ancient “grand-
father,” which in-
dicates high and
low tides at Green-
wich and depicts
the phases of the
moon in the form
if cherubic faces,
has survived two
fires and several
minor casualties.
“R.H.”: “Lex’s” assertion that a woman
will endure almost anything rather than end
her life with a noisy firearm is hardly borne
out by the official records of coroners’ in-
quests. In the five years from 1923 to 1927
40 women committed suicide in Australia
by shooting. There were 11 cases in 1927
alone.
* * * t-
“Murkah”: Coffins aren’t always buried
(B. 17/7/’29). Some years ago alterations
were being made in the grandstand accom-
modation at Williamstown (Vic.) race-
course. In an odd built-in recess was found
a small coffin-shaped box. It contained, not
the bones of a dog, as in the M.L. case, but
the remains of an infant. The tiny skeleton
was not in any way damaged, and how death
came was a matter for conjecture. The
recess had pretty obviously been built to
take the box, and there it had lain since
the grandstand went up, 25 years before.
* * * *
“D.”: The cheapest way to get into the
news is to go to some public place "impro-
perly dressed,” as they say in the Army.
A. J. Cook, the waning light of the Miners'
Federation, secured Europe-wide limelight
last week by trying to lunch at a South-
ampton-row (London) restaurant in his
shirt-sleeves. An even surer scheme is to
go to the main dining-room of some such
restaurant as Claridges’ (preferably on a gala
night) in day clothes. One man had the
luck to be thrown out of the Savoy foi
doing this, and he added profit to fame by
starting an action for damages against the
restaurant. The variations on the theme are
countless —church in a bathing-suit, a meet-
ing of the Wharfies’ Union in a top-hat, and
so on. Why theatrical and movie stars
have left this idea, so far, to go-getters and
Labor politicians is one of the mysteries of
the publicity business.
* * * *
“Ces”: Gypsies are beginning to be looked
upon with extreme suspicion by tiie Com-
monwealth immigration authorities; hence
the well-advertised refusal to admit the
Xury family from Uncle Sam’s country.
There were 17 of them all told, and the head
of the clan claimed to have £l2OO in negoti-
able resources. But Home Affairs Minister
Abbott had a few inquiries made, and
decided that Australia wmuld be better with-
out the nomads, in view of the trouble that
some recent Romany immigrants have given
the police. A thing that annoyed Canberra
was that the British Consul at Honolulu
did not advise the Commonwealth that the
gypsies were coming in such force. Had he
done so, they would have been headed back
at Auckland.
* * * *
“Erua”: One of the highest-salaried men
I know is a wine-taster (B. 24/7/’29) and in
30 years’ experience he has never swallowed
a drop of the liquid on which he passes
judgment. He merely tests it with his
tongue, palate and nose. He told me once, as
if it were a commonplace, that if he swal-
lowed it _ his extreme delicacy of taste would
be impaired. A tea-taster is in much the
same position; one of the craft informed me
that the one thing he dared not drink was
tea. i
MISUNDERSTOOD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
?“ s * ora^*® ts ’ organisations which have been trying
nnon Tf , the F ® deral Government to place a ban
ZLif tlan d ?P ex P re ss themselves just as
Ahgorl y rabWt n,S,t thC projected importation of the
Said the grey Angora rabbit to the huge
Alsatian hound:
We must edge away, Big Brother, we are
on forbidden ground
Or what very shortly will be. Sin it is
and wicked shame
that an animal should have to pay for a
misleading name.”
thus the pearly-grey Chinchilla, dabbing at
his tear-stained face,
1 o the dog whose worth’s attested by the
shepherds of Alsace.
Wolf-hound!” snarled the stately canine,
that s the name that makes me smart,
lhe ambiguous appellation that’s upset my
apple-cart.
Lupine kin it seems to hint at —obvious con-
fusion sheer.
None insinuate a deerhound is related to a
deer.
\\ olves have ever been the quarry, not the
cousins, of my breed.
I can feel for you, Angora. Little chap. I
can indeed!”
Squeaked the pearly-grey Chinchilla: “I’ve a
neece that s rich and rare;
JiiVery naturalist knows I’m less a rabbit
than a hare.
But the stigma’s fastened on me of the too
prolific pest
That’s anathema to squatters, south and
north and east and west.
1 might rival the merino for returns I’d give
to you.”
And the silvery Angora dropped his head
and sobbed anew.
‘Wolf-hound!” barked the big Alsatian, “and
the muddle-headed push
Reckon I might go a-courting lady dingoes
in the bush!”
“Rabbits!” piped the small Angora, “that’s
sufficient to condemn
Me, although I never burrow, never multiply
like them.”
And the tremulous Chinchilla mingled his
protesting tears
W ith the shepherd’s faithful helper, quiver-
ing from tail to ears.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


There is a “Mangrovite” Belt for every power
transmission purpose.
m
m
Mangrovite Belting, in Leather or Raw-hide, is
cemented with waterproof cement which makes
it impervious to water or damp conditions, and
renders it practically a solid, con
tinuous piece of leather.
This greatly increases the smooth
running of the belt, gives a better
grip, greater durability, and actu-
ally 25 p.c. more value than the
old method.
Mangrovite Belts may be easily cut down to smaller sizes, and are not
difficult to repair. Samples free to any address.
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD.,
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director,
49 YORK STREET (WYNYARD SQUARE), SYDNEY.
UdrisflQf
(Oatches
k) CJVOS
25
m
Solid Gold 15-Jewel Lever Watches on Moire
Ribbon, with gold catch, £9/9/- each.
These fine examples of the “Fx and R” Ladies’ Wristlet Watches are without
doubt the strongest, soundest value and most reliably accurate obtainable.
Our 15 years’ guarantee is behind each watch, and we keep them in order
(breakages excepted) for 12 months.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney.
23-25 HUNTER STREET,
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
John Newlands is to be opposed for the
presidency of the Senate not only by Walter
Kingsmili, who is Chairman of Committees,
hut by Paddy Lynch, who still likes a fight.
Had Newlands stuck to his decision to step
down Kingsmili would have got the job;
had the South Australian said nothing about
retiring, the Westralian —a real sportsman —
would not have been a candidate. Kingsmili
is tipped as winner. August 14 will settle
it, and it may also see Foil Chairman of
Committees.
Some August birthdays ;
•Justice Rogers (N.S.W.), 46, and Adelaide’s medico-
knight Joseph Verco, 78, on Ist; S. 11. Smith (N.S.W.
Director of Education), 64, R. B. McComas (Melb.
merchant), 67, and Mrs. Edith Cowan (once M.L.A.
for W. Perth), on 2nd; Adelaide’s ex-Lucl Mayor
Wallace Bruce, 51, knight Edward Miller (Melb.),
81, Dr. Borland (Scots Church, Melb.), 62, and
Archdeacon Charlton (Syd.), 69, on 3rd; Senate
Dean AICKIN, of Melbourne, who is help-
ing to choose the new Archbishop.
President Newlands, 65, John Seaddan (W.A.’s
former Premier), 53, and Dr. Dey (Christian
World), 81, on 4th; Norman .Tolly (Ma State
Forests Commissioner), 47, on sth; Justice Isaacs
(High Court), 74, knight Robt. M. McC. Andei-son
(Syd.), 62, Principal Thatcher (Camden Coll.),
66, Colonel A. 11. Marks (Q.), 49, and Marie Pitt
(poetess), on 6th; knight Lennon Raws (Melb.), 51,
and poet E. J. Brady, 60, on 7th; Federal Treasurer
Earle Page, 49, ex-Federal Minister Poynton, 76, and
JE. T. Fisk (wireless), 43, on Bth; N.S.W. Chief
Justice Street, 66, on 9th; P. E. Deane (Dept, of
Home Affairs), 39, on 10th; Speck’s Chief Justice
Nieholls, 61, and E. A. Mann, M.H.R. for Perth,
55, on 11th; Keith Murdoch (Melb. Herald), 44,
on 12th; Major-Gen. Nevili Smyth, V.C. (Vic.),
61, Prof. Morris Miller (Speck), 48, and E. W.
Holden (Adel.), 44, on 14th; Bishop Baker (Ben-
digo), 47, and Prof. Elliot Smith, 58, on 15th;
Dr. H. Herman (Vic. State Electricity Commission),
54, on 16th; ex-Federal Minister Foster, 73, and
Prof. Laver (Melb.), 63, on 20th; Bishop Dwyer
(Maitland), 71, on 21st; Major-Gen. Hobbs, 65, on
24th ; Federal Attorney-Gen. Latham, 52, and former
Federal Attorney-Gen. Glynn, 74, on 25th; Bishop
Ash (Rockhampton), 47, and Prof. Osborne (Melb.),
56, on 26th; Prof. Angus (Syd.), 48, Chas. Gavan
Duffy (formerly Clerk of House of Reps.), 74, and
Judge Dwyer (Pres. W.A. Arbitration Court), 54,
on 27th; Vic. Minister Pennington, 69, Brig.-Gen.
Cannan (Q.), 47, and J. Spencer Brunton (Syd.),
68, on 29th ; Governor de Chair, 65, and ex-Principal
Ronald Macintyre, 66, on 30th; and R. Ewing
(Federal Commissioner of Taxation), 58, on 31st.
Dr. J. F. Deck, for just on half a century
the head of the homoeopathic cult in Sydney,
died last week, aged 94; he founded the
Homoeopathic Hospital at Aslifield 27 years
ago, and continued to be its medical super-
intendent till he died. He practised in
Aslifield without a break for 52 years, and
that ought to be somewhere near an Aus-
tralian record. There was a family of 11
young Decks, and homoeopathy never had a
better advertisement than in the fact that
they are ' all still living-—divided about
equally between doctors and missionaries;
the boys favored medicine or dentistry and
the girls foreign missions.
Vic. Ministry is sending Cohen, the Minis-
ter of Education, to Westralia to represent
it at the centenary celebrations. Whatever
may happen to Assembly Ministers before
then, Cohen, as an Uppish House man, will
be safe. He won’t have to face the electors
if there is a dissolution.
Chang Hsueh-liang, the virtual ruler of
Manchuria, is not yet 30. He succeeded to
his father, Chang Tso-lin, when that gentle-
man was removed by a bomb in an area
guarded by Japanese troops, and proved to
be as capable as the old man. He early
showed who was to be boss in Manchuria
by inviting two disgruntled generals to
dinner and then shooting them. Chang’s
army was the creation of Sutton, an English
officer who lost an arm in the European
shindy ; it is said to be the best in China.
Chang himself joined it at 16 and passed
through all its branches, including aviation.
Germain Foch, brother of the Marshal and
the last male member of the family, died at
Paris in June. The Generalissimo’s only son
was killed in the war. The children of his
two sons-in-law have assumed the surname
Foch.
John Henry Cawthorn, dead in Tas-
mania, aged 90, was a grandson of the dis-
trict constable for Macquarie Plains. At
that functionary’s house the Government
musters were held, “all free men and women
and all male and female prisoners” resident
in the district being commanded to attend.
The Cawthorns were the first settlers at
Macquarie Plains; Macquarie, visiting Tas-
mania in 1808, stayed with them, and stood
godfather to a baby girl. In his prospec-
ing days John Cawthorn came upon the
rotted remains of pegs marking the adven-
turous journey to Macquarie Harbor which
Lady Franklin accomplished, partly on foot
and partly in a litter carried by convicts.
Sergeant Eric Douglas, who will pilot one
of the Moths in the Mawsofl expedition,
comes from North Brighton (Vic.). He
joined the R.A.A.F. in 1920, and some of his
350 flying hours were spent in the search
for Anderson and Hitchcock. He was also
with the walking expedition that went to
recover the bodies of the airmen.
Through the death of former Justice Hart-
ley Williams, Langdon Bonython, Adelaide’s
wealthy newspaper proprietor, becomes the
oldest living Australian knight. Bonython,
who is in his 81st year, got his bauble in
1898.
C. A. B. Campion, sometime manager of
the Commonwealth Bank in London, is
dead. English born, he began his banking
in Australia with the old Australian Joint
Stock concern, and was secretary to H. P.
Abbott, Chief Inspector foT Queensland,
when the 1893 crisis came. After helping
in the reorganisation, he became manager of
the bank’s London branch; then Denison
Miller captured him for the Commonwealth
Bank, and he looked after the London end
during the war years. Campion was an Aus:
tralian representative at the Geneva Econo-
mic Conference in 1923. He afterwards
served on an Irish Free State commission of
inquiry into changes in local banking laws.
W. P. Blackmore is a Broken ITill repre-
sentative of a family which has a century of
law behind it with probably another cen-
tury in front of it. Himself a solicitor, his
grandfather was a solicitor in Devonshire;
his father, up to the time of his death, was
the oldest practising lawyer in N.S.W.
Brother A. B. Blackmore, one of the Sydney
Millions Clubbers who have been visiting
the Hill, is also a solicitor; H. Blackmore,
another brother, is police magistrate at
Nyngan ; and W.P.’s son is well on the road
in the same profession as his dad.
There are to be changes among officers of
the Senate. Clerk-Assistant Uren is almost
at the retiring age, and will presently leave
Canberra. R. A. Broinowski, Usher of the
Black Rod, will step into his job; and J. E.
Edwards, now Clerk of the Senate Papers,
will become Usher. A taller man than
Edwards has never worn the knee breeches ;
he goes 6ft. 2in. Broinowski is a brother of
the Hobart Mercury thunderer. Before he
left Melbourne he edited the Spinner, a
short-lived attempt to collect the poetry of
our younger verse-carpenters.
J. 11. Keating, formerly Senator for the
Speck, is counsel for the Vic. public at the
inquiry into the price of broad. The sur-
roundings must have awakened old memories,
for the room in which the opening sitting
was held was part of the Commonwealth
Government’s headquarters when Keating
was a Minister. Vic.’s first acquaintance with
Keating was when he represented his little
State at the A.N.A. conference at Geelong
in 1900. He was so good-looking that he
could have been cast, without make-up, for
the part of prince in a stage reproduction
of a fairy tale. His son John, who is doing
commerce at the Uni., is associate to Isaacs,
,T., of the High Court; a daughter is a cadet
on the social staff of Melbourne Herald
under Maisie Maxwell.
Mel Ward, who was born in Melbourne
when his father, Hugh J. Ward, was a new-
comer to Australia, never took kindly to
theatrical work, though he inherited dad’s
talent for dancing. Following his bent, he
Professor A.E.V.
RICHARDSON,
of Adelaide
University, Princi-
pal of the Waite
Agricultural
Research Institute.
has received an ap-
pointment as zoo-
logist to the Syd-
ney Museum. The
young man has an
intimate scientific
acquaintance with
the Crustacea. He
has studied the
habits of prawns
in two hemispheres,
and is a mine of
information about
sand-fleas and sow-
bugs.
The Jesuit authorities in Australia have
appointed Father William O’Leary, of their
order, to suceeed Dr. Edward Bigot in the
charge of their scientific establishments at
St. Ignatius College, Riverview (Sydney).
Father O’Leary, like his predecessor, is a
Dublin man, and the son of a medico. Monu-
ments he will leave behind him include seis-
mographic observatories at Mungret College,
Dublin. While there he patented a new
form of seismograph, a new machine for
making illuminating gas, and a self-correcting
electric chronometer. Louvain was the scene
of his original studies in astronomy, and he
has lately been increasing his seismologieal
lore at Strasbourg.
The election of E. R. Pitt, assistant-chief
at Melb. Public Library, to the vacancy on
the State Superannuation Board, showed
that gratitude is not dead in the Vic. Public
Service. Pitt, who is a brother of the Under-
Treasurer, was chairman of the Public Ser-
vice and Railway joint committee which
agitated for and got superannuation passed
by Parliament in 1925. J. T. Saxton, assis-
tant chief inspector of State elementary
schools, was the other candidate.
Donald Cameron, M.H.R. for Brisbane, is
again talking about resigning. Although one
of the most popular men in Parliament, the
Colonel has never quite settled into the life
of the place. Badly knocked in Gallipoli,
he has concentrated as a Parliamentarian
on making things a little brighter for war
victims; he was largely responsible for the
measure giving rejected applicants for pen-
sions a right of appeal. The Bruce-Pages
will not like losing him, for he has a great
following in Brisbane, which used to be a
safe Labor seat.
After half a century’s service, J. S. Rees,
chief clerk of Vic. Railway Dept., has called
it a day, and will draw a well-earned pen-
sion. Thomas Tait, when Chief Commis-
sioner, picked Rees for his sec., and the
training he got under the big Canadian
made it easy for him to step into the chief
clerk’s job and hold it. lie was latterly
president of the Railway Institute.
Ex-Mayor Light, who died in Newcastle
the other day, was a Polish Jew who
arrived at the coal city in 1886, and from
small beginnings built up a flourishing retail
business. He was one of the characters of
the place, and his occasional spars with
brother aldermen, conducted as they were on
his side in weird English, were a welcome
relief to the monotony of reporting council
meetings; but he was a kindly, if irascible,
soul. He was the oldest member of the
council w r hen pneumonia- took him off, at 74.
Vivian Deacon, the spiritualist who
claimed £5OOO from Truth for libel, and
was awarded £3500, got a neat one back on
Menzies, Iv.C. Counsel was questioning him
as to the quality of the revelations he re-
ceived from William Stead and other notables
on “the other side,” and asked casually
whether a bad man could be a good medium.
“Just as a bad man might be a good
barrister,” retorted the familiar of spooks.
When Dr. J. J. O’Connor, now R. C. Bishop
of Armidale (N.S.W.), adopted young John
Coleman, a native of Mt. Mellaray, Ireland,
and sent him to the local seminary and then
to Rome, he could have had little notion
that one day this boy would be his coadjutor.
Yet it has come to pass. Having taken
out a Doctorate of Theology, young Cole-
man joined his patron, first as secretary and
later as Administrator of the Cathedral.
Bishop O’Connor, one of the most noted
figures on the Tableland, is now over 80
years old.
The days when W. M. Hughes battled for
a crust as a union organiser are recalled by
the death in Melbourne of James Morris.
Morris became general secretary of the
Waterside-workers’ Federation when it was
founded, and he and Hughes helped to found
it; Hughes was the first general president.
Before the coming of the Federation, Morris
was secretary of the Victoria Stevedores’
Association. The old man had 40 years’
experience as a ifhion official, and when he
retired a couple of years ago the union gave
him a pension.
Professor Dicky Berry was given a charac-
teristic send off by the medical students of
Melbourne Uni. Forty of them went on
board the Ormonde adorned with skulls,
thigh bones and finger bones from the class-
room skeletons to say good-bye to the man
who was Professor of Anatomy for 20 years.
Berry didn’t mind; he played pranks like
that himself once. It is recalled that his
best chum during his student career was
Phil Meynell, afterwards of the theatrical
firm of Meynell and Gunn.
G. H. Knox’s appointment as sec. to the
McPherson Cabinet and Nationalist whip
recalls a story told by his late dad, William,
sometime M.IT.R. for Kooyong, of how he
missed a big share in the Brookman show
at Hannans —as it was then. Knox was
returning from England, and on reaching
Albany, then a port of call, was urged by
former financial associates to come straight
up to Hannans and buy an interest in the
syndicate that had taken up the Golden
Mile, or a big stretch of it. He was about
to agree when a wire from Melb. announcing
the birth of a daughter was handed to him.
He decided to go on and see the babe and
let the Golden Mile slide; and so he lost
a fortune. But a few thousands more or less
were neither here nor there to William Knox.
His son is on the land up Ferntree Gully
way.
James Cowlishaw, dead in Brisbane, was
one of Queensland’s grand old men. Born
in Sydney in 1834, he went to Brisbane 27
years later, and as an architect played a
very considerable part in its growth and
development. Then journalism engaged most
JAMES COWLISHAW
of his activities, and as a director of the
Courier, and later as managing director
of the Brisbane Telegraph, he wielded great
influence. Cowlishaw was for many years
a member of the Leg. Council, and was one
of the founders of the Cricket Association.
He lived to 95.
“John B.”: Douglas Grant, the aboriginal
Digger, who has been retrenched from the
small-arms factory, is not a native of Lith-
gow. He was adopted when a baby on a
Queensland station by Scots folk who gave
him their name. He was “souvenired” with
about 50 others outside Morlancourt. After-
wards inquisitive frauleins rubbed wet fingers
down his face, believing him to be camou-
flaged. Thanks to his early Scots training,
Doug can speak as broadly as Lauder, and
he staggered passengers on a Glasgow tram
one day by claiming to be one of themselves.
As a draughtsman, an elocutionist and a
conversationalist this son of Australia will
take some beating.
AT POZIERES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Many wreaths were placed on the Cenotaph on
July 23, the anniversary of Pozieres.”
“Wounded and missing,” so they posted
you—
It went within a line, the when and
where.
No other word, and the long year dragged
through.
Hope died, and that was all w> ever knew.
At Pozieres!
The scattering shrapnel and the shrieking
shell
Took their red toll of sturdy manhood
there;
You rest beneath no cross, your name to
tell;
No epitaph is yours-—save that you fell
At Pozieres!
The seasons pass; the summertime comes
round,
And France is gay with green and golden
fair,
Poplar and elm and larch with verdure
crowned....
Light may it rest on you, the war-scarred
ground
Of Pozieres!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Pioneer” Means Dependable Power Transmission.
o\ONt££
K
$
What are your most difficult belting problems? Are
they heavy, gruelling main drives where the belt must
withstand the constant strain of transmitting hundreds
of horse-power day in and day out, or light, high-
speed drives where extreme accuracy is essential to
minimise vibration and slippage?
Whatever your problems may be you will find
PIONEER LEATHER BELTING
absolutely dependable under all conditions of service. Our 70 years of belting
experience are at your disposal in helping to solve your particular problems.
We know working conditions.
J. C. LUDOWICI (SL SON, LIMITED,
Pioneer House, 117 York Street, Sydney.
Pioneer Tanners and Leather Belting Manufacturers since 1858.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
VICTORIA: Benson Bros., Ltd., 20-26 Queen’s
Bridge Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: Hoey Fry, Ltd., Edward
Street, Brisbane;
Bums, Philp & Co., Ltd., Townsville.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John McKell & Sons,
Timpson Street, Port Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Horace Summers,
Howard Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: Charles Davis, Ltd., Elizabeth
Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Friar, Richards & Upton,
Auckland.
Patterson & Barr, Ltd., Dunedin.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel Gelignite Safety fu9e
Samsonite Blasting Gelatine Detonators
Gelatine Dynamite Dynamite Cartridges
If You Appoint a Friend Your Executor and
Trustee
He may die soon after you, with the resultant heavy expense
to your estate of appointing a new Trustee. If you appoint
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
the question of a new Trustee will never arise.
Write or call for Free Explanatory Booklet.
Nos. 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Managing Director: R. COPLAND-LETHBRIDGE.
Manager: H. V. DOUGLASS.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Port Jackson and Manly Steamship.
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 27,752 13Jp.c. 28,162 67,760
1920.. ? 13J „ „ 28,162 ? ?
Co. reconstructed and split in two. Assets written up.
Two £1 shares paid to 15s. in new ferry co.
issued for every one similarly paid up in old co.,
ana also one fully-paid £1 6 p.c. participating
pref. share in subsidiary insurance co. for every
two in old co.
1921.. 25,870 6 p.c. = 25,345 525 2,891
1922.. 26,411 6 „ „ 25,345 1,066 3,957
1923.. 32,186 6 ~ „ 25,345 6,841 10,798
1924.. 25,406 6 „ „ 25,345 61 10,859
1926.. 30,203 7 ~ „ 29,570 633 11,492
1926.. 25,003 7 „ „ 29,570 6,925
1927.. 2,727 Nil 2,727 9,652
1928.. 10,116 3 p.c. = 12,673 7,095
Ship property written down £140,808 by striking
off ss. per share.
1929.. 33,346 10 p.c. = 28,161 5,185 12,280
Following the two poorest results since the
beginning of this century and a cut which
reduced capital from 15s. to 10s. per share,
promts took a sudden leap that carried them
to the highest level reached for 14 years.
That immediately raises the question whether
the recent writing down was really neces-
sary. The seed of much of the co.’s recent
troubles was sown during the reconstruction
in 1920 when for every share paid to 15s.
in the old co. shareholders got scrip paid to
40s. in two new cos. (A subsidiary, the Port
Jackson Investment and Insurance Co., was
thrown off chiefly to handle the parent co.’s
risks.) To do all this the book value of the
fleet was multiplied by three, and it hap-
pened just when prices were at their peak.
Since then ship values have slumped so
heavily that the ordinary substantial provi-
sion for depreciation became quite inadequate.
It was to adjust the position that £140,808
was lately lopped off capital on the one hand
and the book value of the fleet on the other.
If no cut at all had been made, and if depre-
ciation had been allowed on a 6 p.c. basis,
last year’s profit would have been £S44B
lighter, or equal to 5.8 p.c. on a paid capital
of £422,424, which was the figure immedi-
ately before the writing down.
During the 12 months circumstances were
exceptionally favorable. The board puts it
this way:—
Weather conditions improved, especially during the
school, Christmas and Easter holidays, and the
revenue from daily cash fares increased. Earnings
were considerably augmented by the novelty to the
public of the two new steamers, Dee-Why and Curl
Curl, which were placed in commission in December
last. We also had additional traffic in connection
with the Eucharist Congress in September last.
A substantial reduction in running costs fol-
lowed the employment of the new ships,
which burn crude oil, two doing the work
previously done by three Also, there was an
increase of Is. in the weekly fare 18 months
ago. These things, aided perhaps by the dis-
continuance of the co.’s cargo service, put
the sparkle into last year’s profits.
Incidentally, the accounts claim £28,346 of
the year’s takings as neF profit, but another
£5OOO dropped from somewhere into an in-
surance reserve fund. Thus the year’s net
result sprang £23.230, mounting to 11.8 i p.c.
on capital as written down (£281,616), or
7.8 p.c. on the share register total at the
close of accounts in 1928. On that total
last year’s 10 p.c. distribution was equal to
6.6, making an average of 3.2 p.c. over the
last three years.
As for the future, the board has made it
plain that the special bonus of 2 p.c. that
went out with the final div. is not to be re-
garded as a regular thing. The co.’s pros-
pects still largely depend upon whether the
recent writing down was adequate. The
saving in running costs, mentioned above,
and the board’s decision to buy another ship
of the Dee-Why class are comforting fea-
tures. But there is the Harbor Bridge, and
its completion will inevitably mean immedi-
ate competition from road transport, per-
haps allied with rail. It can be taken for
granted that the management has planned to
meet these contingencies. But what has
been done under the old conditions is no guide
to what may be done under these new ones.
The brightness in the year’s revenue is
further reflected in an increase of £20,568 in
the more or loss liquid surplus:—
1922. 1928. 1929.
Liquid assets . . £45,961 £35,745 £51,158
Liabilities .. . . 47,432 14,992 9,837
Excess liabilities £1,471
Surplus assets..‘ £20,753 £41,321
Fixed assets .. £440,525 £421,439 £269,471
Compared with the previous balance, book
debts (£10,343) were up £938S —the increase
is mainly the balance owing on the sale cf
two old vessels —and the cash holding
(£33,527) was £6056 stronger. Stores, etc.
(£7288), were £3l lighter. On the other
hand £10,040 was returned to depositors,
£3lBO heaped on to the overdraft (£3357)
and an extra £1705 was coming to sundry
creditors (£6480). The shrinkage in the book
value of the fleet (£223,643) was £150,708,
so £9900 more was struck off than was spent
out of revenue on steamers during the year.
Freehold and plant are in at £45,829, down
£1259.
The market prices the scrip at 12s 6d. or
thereabouts. At that figure the return is 6.4
p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The backing
amounts to 10s. sd. per share in net tangibles.
Queensland Brewery, Ltd. (Brisbane).
Dividends and Written
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 14,773 8 p.c. = 7,840 1,933 16,000
(Contingency Reserves—shown in table as written
off—capitalised, £6667.)
1920.. 17,127 8 p.c. = 8,925 3,202 21,000
1921.. 16,469 8 „ „ 9.902 2,567 25,000
1922.. 18,071 8 „ „ 101389 3,682 29.000
1923.. 27,803 10 „ ~14.609 8,194 34,000
1924.. 40,170 12} „ ~23,375 5,795 45,000
1925.. 40,205 12} „ „ 29,219 2,986 53,000
1926.. 41,499 10 „ „ 27,442 2,057 65,000
1927.. 40,554 10 „ „ 29,885 2,169 73,500
1928.. 41,145 10 „ „ 29,885 2,760 82,000
1929.. 44,058 12} „ ~37,356 1,702 87,000
It was not until after the war that the
management took off its coat and set to work
to develop the business. During the 32
years to 1919 paid capital grew to £83,975.
So rapid has been the expansion since that
another £214,876 has been got in by par
issues, making the total on the register
£298,851 at June 30. The new money went
partly into the co.’s Brisbane and Too-
woomba breweries, and largely into hotel
freeholds in Southern, (Central and Western
Queensland. Thus the co. has gained a
pretty good grip on the trade over much of
the State. Hitherto it has not been able
to win much of a connection in the North, but
last year the management opened up new
business there, and it is expected that
further extensions will take place in the
near future.
Last year’s brisker trading, which was
helped by a good season—wool, sugar, meat
and dairy produce brought in better returns
—is reflected in an extra £2913 of net profit.
A sweetener of 2J p.c. goes out with the
final div., making p.c. for the year.
For the last seven years the div. has been
kept steady at 10 p.c., with p.c. added
when things looked brighter than usual. Thus
comfortable margins have remained for re-
serves ; more comfortable probably than the
figures in the table suggest.
The amounts shown as written off are
contributions to the contingency reserve
(now £35,482). The only visible withdrawal
during the past decade was when the last
lot of bonus scrip was distributed in 1919.
Including this reserve with other accumu-
lations, the pile in the window at June 30
amounted to £122,482, equal to Bs. 2d. a
share.
The board says that the year’s gross
profit was £193,470, or £2029 less than the
previous year’s; the figure has stepped down
from £214.397 in 1926. Exes. (£149,412),
which include an unspecified amount for
depreciation and bad debts, etc., were cut
back £4942. The £44,058 netted was 14.7
p.c. on average capital compared with 13.8,
13.5, 15.1, 17.2 and 21.4 p.c. back to 1924.
They are surprisingly good results consider-
ing the difficulties —drought, general depres-
sion, rising costs, keen competition, etc. A
few years ago the three breweries operating
from Brisbane had practically agreed upon
a merging of their interests, hut at the last
moment the Queensland Co. drew out. In
some quarters this was interpreted to mean
keener competition in the future. How-
ever, there is still little, if any, price-cutting
in the trade. Of course this means tied
houses; and the extension of that system
explains some of the growth in the book
value of fixed assets. Incidentally, the brew-
ery is justified in claiming that it has the
best available modern appliances.
A couple of years ago the management
installed new plant in order to put a light
bitter ale and lager on the market; the
better to meet competition from the South.
To do this and carry an extra £109.536 of
book debts, the co. went heavily into debt.
That and the subsequent improvement in the
finances, along with the growth of the busi-
ness over the last nine years, are visible in
this comparison:—
1920. 1924. 1927. 1928. 1929.
£ £ £ £ £
Paid
capital . 112,500 200,000 298,851 298,851 298,851
Liabilities 31,476 65i,122 257,141 192,898 141,583
Fixed assets 73,643 154,455 305,824 300,598 294 146
Stock .. 44,795 64,176 89,790 93,724 95,951
Book debts 45,804 114,115 276,058 223,904 190,920
Cash, etc. 9,846 3,510 5,485 5,948 6,014
During the last two years £11,678 more was
written off than was spent on fixed assets;
book debts have been worked down £85,138,
and a cut of £115,558 made in the debt.
Over the same period the improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£151,302 at
the close of last accounts, including stocks)
was £37,110.
Since 1920 £186,351 of new capital has
been got in, and the net asset position has
improved £302,836. Shareholders are thus
£116,485 better off than they were nine years
ago, and £82,333 of the improvement is in
more or less surplus liquids.
Two years back the market paid 2Ss. for
the pound shares, but, doubtful of the effects
of the threatened competition, lowered its
estimate to 255. 4d. twelve months ago.
Encouraged by last year’s results and the
improvement in the outlook, buyers recently
offered 335. 4d.; sellers asked 345. After
allowing for the final div. and bonus the
return at the middle price is 6.2 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis.
The Australia Hotel (Sydney).
, Dividends . Nominal
Pref. Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves.
June, £ £ £ £
1919 . . 20,290 1980 10 p.c. = 15,000 45,242
1920 .. 35,014 1980 12J „ „ 22,600 55,7,76
Transferred to capital, £26,000 .. 30,776
1921 .. 32,990 1980 10 p.c. = 25,000 36,786
1922 .. 28,954 1980 10 „ „ 25,173 38,587
1923 .. 36,825 1980 10 „ „ 26.373 48,059
1924 . . 37,486 1980 10 „ „ 26,373 58,192
1925 .. 43,678 1980 10 „ „ 25,373 74,617
Asset written up, £108,352 .. 182,869
Transferred to capital, £79,292 .. 103,577
1926 . . 64,253 1980 10 p.c. = 38,488 117,362
1927 .. 65,138 1980 10 „ „ 38,917 131,603
1928 .. 51,660 1980 10 „ „ 38,917 142,366
1929 .. 69,312 1980 10 „ „ 38,917 160,781
Twenty years back most of the Australia’s
scrip was held in London. Then Sydney
bought out the English interests at £2 a
share; that was in 1910, when paid capital
had been reduced to £58,000. The business
has since developed rapidly, and been highly
profitable.
From time to time extensive additions to
premises and plant have been called for and
made, until about five years ago the building
had climbed to the limit prescribed by the
city ordinances. But still the business grew;
and then the long-looked-for opportunity
offered to get both more accommodation and
an outlet to Martin-place. This chance pre-
sented itself when the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment Savings Bank moved into its new palace,
a few doors up the street. The co. promptly
bought the bank’s old premises for £150,000,
or £l 600-odd a foot. The board went out-
ride for the money, £111,728 net being added
to the debt, making it £156,110 at June 30.
The book value of the entire freehold
(£635,000) advanced by exactly the amount
of the purchase money. Plans for the re-
modelling and conversion of the new premises
are in preparation, and very shortly the work
is to be put in hand.
The directors make no mention as to what
this and new equipment are likely to run
into, nor is any hint given as to whether
shareholders are to be given the option of
providing some of the money. If, however,
the board’s present negotiations with the
Commercial Travellers’ Association for the
purchase of its property, which is now
hemmed in by the hotel, comes to anything,
it may be found necessary to put out more
scrip. A difficulty in connection with the
C.T.A. building i s that its floors do not cor-
respond with those of the hotel, so extensive
and costly structural alterations must be
made before the building can be worth much
to the Australia. Because of this non-
conformity, the C.T.A. missed what might
have been a fine sale years ago. The co
is said to have now offered £120,000 for the
premises, but the association is asking some-
thing nearer £200,000. Much may depend
upon the success or otherwise of the C.T.A.’s
search for other premises.
The recent purchase and other things are
visible in this comparison of balance-sheet
figures:—
, 1921. 1925. 1928. 1929.
Stock.. .. £23,644 £11,421 £15,235 £15,766
Book debts, etc. 5,358 6,949 35,206* 14,418
Cash, etc. .. 4,070 2,370 1,400 1,800
Liquid assets. £32,972 £19,740 £61,841 £31984
Liabilities .. 36,782 113,987 44,382 156,110
Excess liabilities £3,810 £94,247 £7,459f £124,126
Property and
equipment .. 287,904 444,173 652,524 702,524
•Includes investments. fLiquid surplus.
The debt climbed to £124,126 in excess of
the more or less liquids, which were drawn
upon for £19,857 net during the year; and
the excess is likely to widen before it be-
comes narrower. An encouraging feature
is the speed with which the financial position
improved during the three years to the close
of accounts in 1928. The rapid growth of
city property values has provided a fine inner
reserve in the old freehold, which was writ-
ten .?.P. £308.352 four years ago, and the pro-
babilities are that its book value is still well
below its real worth. Equipment has re-
mained unchanged in the books at £67,524
for the last half-dozen years, despite exten-
sive additions meantime. Profits are largely
governed by what is spent out of revenue
on replacements, additions, etc.
For a while there will be a large amount
of money bearing interest that is not bring-
ing m any return. And, of course, there
■will be the debt calling for reduction The
question arises, therefore, whether this is
likely to affect the div. That largely depends
upon the amount and terms of the c-o's
future borrowings. Last year, after attend-
ing to the prefs. and handing the ords. their
usual 10 p.c., the £18,415 visibly sent to re-
serves was equal to 7 p.c. on more than 111
times the £111,728 added to the debt. Profits
in the table, by the way, include unexplained
additions to the general reserve (£140,000)
a °d the machinery and renewals account
(£18.650), into which £16,000 and £2OOO
respectively were dropped last year. Allow-
ing for the pref. requirements the balance
of the year’s net earnings was 13.5 p.c on
average ordinary capital compared with i. 2.7
13.6 and 13.5 back to 1926, the year follow-
ing that in which the last gift issue was
made. The ratios were 10.7 p.c. in 19°‘>
and 8 p.c. in 1917. Since 1910 £364,109
been t 0 P ai d capital (now
£42—169), and £229,292 of the increase was
P r 2y iaea by the capitalisation of reserves
The market looks at the past, and, not-
withstanding threatened competition, ex-
presses its confidence in the future by pay-
ing 345. 6d. for the ords. After allowing
for the final div. (Is.) the return at that
figure is 6 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The
backing amounts to 265. lid. per share in
net tangibles. For the well protected prefs
—there are only 33,000 of them—which carry
a cumulative 6 p.c. and have priority as to
capital, 20s. 6d. is paid.
W. R. Carpenter and Co.
r Dividends ~
„ P re f- . . To Re- Re-
-1 ront. 8 p.c. Ordinaries, serves, serves
£££ £ £ '
763 8 P- c -= 6000 6126 6,126
ioot" 1600 8 " " 7688 6876 13,002
1926.. 17,771 1652 8 „ „ 8064 8155 21,157
. Kemaimng prefs. converted to ordinaries.
All Shares.
lol?" oi’oo? B P- C '= 12,581 16,111 37,266
1927.. 35,231 8„ „ 16,499 18,732 56,000
-inno ves * :rnen * reserve ( £4000) disappears.. 52,000
JqIo” 8 p.c. 18,407 16,584 68,584
1929.. 43,634 8„ „ 21,667 21,867 90,451
This well-handled island trading co., with
Sydney headquarters, has made extraordinary
progress during the last half-dozen years. It
was launched in 1914, and by 1923 paid
capital had reached £lOO,OOO. Since then
tfie board has pursued a vigorous policy of
expansion, and, in order to finance the live-
ler trading, an extra £200,000 of scrip has
been put out. The last £125,000 of it was
issued m Dec., 1928; thus paid capital
became £291,667 at June 30, and there was
still £8,>,333 to come in. The aim has
been to build up _ the strength, visible and
otherwise, so the div. has been kept steady at
8 p.c. and not far short of half the admitted
net earnings even the last seven years have
remained in the business. Hence share-
holders could see 6s. 2d. of accumulated
profits to support each pound of paid capital
at June 30.
. b^ ol ' the 12 months to that date the spring
ia gross profits (£58,354) wa s £11,750. Exes.
(£12,862) took only £1936 of the increase,
and after openly striking off £5458 for
depreciation nothing was visibly set aside
tor that purpose in the previous year—the
board claimed £4356 more net profit (£40,034)
than for the preceding 12 months. But that
was after £3500 was slipped into a
and replacement reserve without comment,
lhe £43,534 thus netted reached 20 p.c.
average capital compared with 19, 17.1,
18.2 and 14.8 p.c. back to 1924. They are
extraordinarily good performances consider-
ing the brisk inflow of new capital and the
erratic behavior of the co.’s markets. Last
year there was a further decline in prices
tor Island produce, and copra touched its
lowest point for 20 years. Notwithstanding
this the board discloses a record net profit ;
it all suggests that liberal allowances had
been made for contingencies. Tbe chairman
says that as all the co.’s funds are needed to
tide settlers over a diflßcult period, the
directors recommended only the usual con-
servative dividend. That might be taken as
a hint that it is intended to increase the
div. in the near future. The fatness of
profits certainly suggests that such a thing
is probable.
Last year the co. added a new inter-island
steamer of 800 tons to the fleet, built a
* store at Rabaul and opened branches at
Madang and Salamoa, which promise to
become lively business centres. Shortly a
branch is to be opened at London “for the
better control of buying”—a suggestion tliar
the retail merchandising side of the business
is becoming more important.
telD 616 iS aS muc k as balance-sheet figures
„ ~ „ 1923. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital.. £lOO,OOO £167,070 £250,000 £291,667
Liabilities .. 12,410 12,471 30,462 21,904
Shipping property 9,530 38,026 20,046 23 128
•• •• 319 1,247 1,000 600
Mortgages, etc. 69,332 66,860 127,639 115,260
Stocks .. 1,189 2,985 10,705 8,047
Branch balances,
etc. .. 38,764 111,899 204,148 266,395
Cash .. .. 2,901 2,249 187 3,560
During the year the overdraft (£15,942 at
the previous balance) was wiped out and


PIIIP
■■■■■ ■. mm
wwws^/^Xv.;
r.•••: : -i.::‘
(U |
fiiliil
\ Message of Importance
TO USERS OF
FERTILISER
The manufacture and distribution of fertilisers, particularly Super-
phosphate, are of such paramount importance not only to the
primary producers but to the whole community, since National
prosperity is dependent on prolific and profitable production,
that any movement in the fertiliser industry is a matter of general
interest and great moment.
The fact that four leading manufacturers of fertilisers and agri-
cultural chemicals—Cuming Smith Chemical Works, Mount Lyell
Chemical Works, Wischer Chemical Works and Federal Fertilisers
—have merged into one company must therefore be regarded as
an outstanding event in the industrial and agricultural history
of Australia. As Commonwealth Fertilisers and Chemicals
Ltd., the new concern will be a power for immense good, and
its formation will be regarded with high favour by far-seeing
agriculturists.
The products of the new Company
will be marketed under the Sickle in
Diamond trade-mark (illustrated) a
combination of brands already well
and favourably known, In every re-
gard the Company’s products will be
maintained at the high standards of
quality for which they have been
appreciated in the past.
With its greatly increased resources,
with its vast aggrega-
tion of experience, the
new Company confi-
dently expects to bring
about improvements
and economies i
manufacture an
C
ŵ
distribution that must tend towards even
better fertilisers at lower prices to the
consumer. It is towards this end that
all activities are being turned at the
present moment and a definite an-
nouncement of reduced fertiliser
prices can be expected in due course.
No changes in personnel are intended
so that past customers of the four com-
ponent Companies can have every con-
fidence in the new Com-
pany and can anticipate
the same thorough care
and attention to the
fulfilment of their or-
ders that they have ex-
perienced in the past.
-* oH>nealth n **nt
AND CHEMICALS Ltd.
SUCCESSORS TO
CUMING SMITH CHEMICAL WORKS MOUNT LYELL CHEMICAL WORKS,
WISCHER CHEMICAL WORKS FEDERAL FERTILISERS.
HEAD OFFICE: 65 WILLIAM STREET (G.P.O. BOX 390). MELBOURNE.C.I.
Manufacturers SUPERPHOSPHATE, MIXED FERTILISERS, WHEAT PICKLES. SHEEP DIP. STOCK LICKS, etc.
3: Ifial®
! ;
Mill


&
YG
& O ON
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
m
DT
Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents, 26 30 Clarence St.. Sydney*!]
Recognise Your Duty and Appoint a Reliable Executor
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED
. (The Pioneer Trustee Company of Australia)
412 Collins Street, Melbourne,
is specially qualified to act as your Executor and Trustee.
Its experience of over 50 years is ample assurance that it will manage your affairs to the best
advantage. Unlike an individual the Company is permanent, and its Capital and Assets are
available for the protection of Clients' interests.
DIRECTORS: Sir John Grice (Chairman), Sir J. H. MacFarland, M.A., LL.D. (Vice-Chairman),
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, Alexander Stewart, J. Foidyce.
Empowered by Special Acts of Parliament to operate in the States
of New South Wales and Victoria.
CHAS. R. SMIBERT. General Manager __ V. G. WATSON. Manager,
Can they Pull
| Through ?
Many concerns are falling by
the way, broken by high costs
and burdensome taxes.
Here’s a big co. that will
not pay even its unsecured
creditors 5/- in the £. The
prei. shareholders will lose
every penny.
Are you a shareholder? Have
you an insurance policy ? Do
companies owe you money ?
Don’t lose your capital. Keep
yourself informed.
The leading Australian
authority on all these matters
is
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
AUGUST NUMBER NEXT SATURDAY
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PEIt ANNUM,
22/G. From Newsagents, or BuljT.etin
Odices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * # *
The initial cost of Pioneer Wood Pipe is consider-
ably less than that of metal pipe, and its superiori-
ties are manifold. Firstly, it is positively non-
corrosive—its capacity actually increases with years
of use. Then it is light and easily handled, quickly
and simply laid and is extremely durable. It is
undoubtedly worth while to investigate the merits of
this modern conduit, and those interested are in-
vited to send for illustrated data book giving full
information. Free on request. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road (near Figtree
Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at Footscray,
Victoria.— Advt.
# *
Inventoks. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly , pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
1
»
Pai
M
[PREPARED]
Guaranteed by the manufacturers to
go further, last longer and uniformly
give better results than any other
paint made.— “B.P.”
"KEEPS ON KEEPING ON!”
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
IS
i7.>S4 tacked on to the amount coming to
creditors (£21,904) ; thus the net reduction
in , tJ'e debt was £8558. Only £3082 was
added to the book value of the shipping item.
1 roperties, mostly New Guinea purchases,
s«g«d. a *- when the books closed in
19-8; in the latest accounts they are lumped
with mortgages and investments (£115,260).
the lot down £12,379. The co.’s position
largely depends upon the soundness or other-
wise of the branch balances, etc.; they in-
creased by no less than £62,247 during the
lust what the bulk of this item is
made of can only be guessed at by the
investor.
Ihe market’s opinion is that the pound
shares, which are backed by net tangibles
with a book value of 265. 2d., are worth
• >os. (id. After allowing for the final div.
the immediate return at that figure is only
5.0 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The investor
who looks for a shade over p.c. on his
outlay thus counts on the div. advancing to
40 p.c. The div. is free of tax in the hands
of shareholders. That and the frequent new
share issues at par, which have been in the
nature of bonuses to shareholders, have
compensated somewhat for the apparent
smallness of the return.
Marchant’s, Ltd. (Sydney).
Net To
May, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1919.. 5999 7 p.c. = 4193 1,806 5,421
1920.. 5220 7„ „ 4193 1,027 6,448
1921.. 4378 7 „ ~ 4193 185 6,633
8090 7 » » 5066 3,030 9,663
1923 9198 10 „ „ 7253 1,945 11,608
1 rofit on property sale.. 734 12,342
1924.. 8593 10 p.c. = 7253 1,340 13,682
] ,925. . 8040 10 „ „ 7253 787 14,469
1926.. 8552 10 „ „ 7253 1,299 15,768
1927.. 7985 10 ~ ~ 7253 782 16,500
1928.. 8351 10 „ ~ 7252 1,098 17.598
1929.. 9026 10 „ „ 7253 i,773 19,371
This little soft-drinks co. started 10 years
back with a paid capital of £38,507; five
years later the board capitalised £21,393 of
reserves, writing up the book value of free-
holds and plant £11,444 for the purpose. The
div. was then dropped from 10 p.c. to 7 p.c.
A par issue raised the total on the share
register to £72,534 in 1922, since when
shareholders have had a regular 10 p.c.
again, though there has never been a great
deal to spare.
Last year turnover was above the average,
and the board, after setting aside whatever
it considered necessary for taxation and
depreciation, wrote the net result £675 better
than for the previous year, or equal to 12.4
p.c. on capital, compared with 11.5, 11, 11.8
and 11.1 p.c. back to 1924. They are satis-
factory ratios considering that for each
pound of capital there were net tangibles
with a book value of only 255. Id., including
freehold 10s. 2d., and plant, etc., 4s. 6d. The
evenness of earnings, despite variations in
seasons, keen competition and the upward
tendency of costs, suggests that everything
may not always be on view. But there is
nothing to indicate that anything better than
10 p.c. need be looked for, for a time, at any
rate.
Balance-sheet movements are healthy, and
appearances are that depreciation has not
been neglected :
1924. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital . . £72,534 £72,534 £72,534 £75,534
Liabilities . . 4,322 1,652 1,624 1,200
Freeholds, buildings,
etc 42,825 40,274 42,227 38,667
Plant, etc. . . 23,027 26,526 18,076 16,854
Stocks . . . . 13,330 13,129 10,193 10,235
Book debts and cash 21,359 20,511 32,013 35,701
During the last two years the book value of
plant has been cut back over one-third,
£9672 more being written off than was spent
upon that item. Stocks have been worked
down £2894, and are lower than at any time
since 1914; book debts (£11,246, including
an unspecified amount on mortgage) are
£1723 lighter, while cash (£24,455) has
been strengthened by no less than £16,914.
Apparently the board has been unable to
liven turnover sufficiently to find profitable
employment for the money.
The market, impressed by the improvement
in earnings and finances, now pays 28s. for
the pound shares as against 245. a year ago.
At the current price the return is 7.1 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Fresh Meat Supply Co.
The South Western Queensland and New
England Fresh Meat Supply Co., Ltd;, is
being formed to put up works at Wallan-
garra, on the railway line at the Queens-
land border. The idea is to supply the Syd-
ney market with chilled beef. Nominal capi-
tal is £75,000 in £1 shares. Of these 50,009
are offered, the promoters take 6000 paids
and £250, and the other 19,000 shares are
in reserve. The works and about 200 acres
of land are expected to cost £15,800. After
allowing for taxation net profits are figured
at £15,126, or 27 p.c. on a paid capital of
£56,000. Estimates are based on weekly kill-
ings of 150 beasts.
By killing at Wallangarra and railing the
carcase to Sydney as against trucking on
the hoof and selling at the latter centre a
saving of 325. per head is claimed. Of late
Queensland chilled beef has sold freely on the
southern markets. On the board are men
who should know the business.
Oil in Maoriland.
Nobody knows for certain, of course, but
if oil is got in commercial quantities any-
where in Australasia it is as likely to be
on the east coast of Maoriland as anywhere.
Coal Oil (N.Z.), Ltd., at Omata, near New
Plymouth, may get it; but that country is
very difficult to diagnose owing to the fact
that the surface is masked by a consider-
able depth of volcanic debris, wherefore the
geologist has very little evidence of struc-
lt is, therefore, a good field for geo-
physical prospecting, and work of that kind
has been carried out during the past two
years. The co. seems, however, to have
over-stated its case: it claims that the Elbof
method—the one that lias been applied—not
only can disclose the existence of oil, but in
this case has proved commercial quantities
at a depth of 2000 ft. over an area of 400
acres. It will be a great thing if the Elbof
or any other method can do this; in the
absence of proof to the contrary, high
authorities will continue to doubt whether
electric methods of surface prospecting have
any application to oil. That they are doing
good work in prospecting for metallic ores
is beyond question.
The statement regarding the proving of
400 acres of crude-oil accumulations in com-
mercial quantities has just been repeated by
A. A. Mitchell, the M.L. director and repre-
sentative of Coal Oil (N.Z.), Ltd., who
declares that “by combined application of mag-
netic, gravimetric, seismic and radio-activity-
survey methods,” the strata were explored
and the existence of “unbroken oil accumu-
lations” put beyond doubt. This sounds
very portentous; but, as a matter of fact, in
sucli rough country, would the gravimetric
method, for example, be of the smallest
value? And if the seismic method was
applied, when were the necessary heavy shots
ot dynamite fired off?
, Yet as above stated. Coal Oil (N.Z.),
Ltd., has distinct possibilities. It is now
about to start drilling with a plant of the
Sullivan steam-driven type, which “can drill
much more quickly” than the ordinary
rotary type. It may; but lots of people
don t believe it. Still, that is a matter of
secondary importance.
Taranaki (N.Z.) Oilfields, N.L., has pre-
ferred a new rotary equipment for its Gis-
borne No. 2 well, and drilling should be
resumed about November. The co. has now
the equipment to explore two very alluring
BjjvUre!l 8 jjv Ure! l at , Motere and Mangaone—in
addition to those from which thus far so
much promise has been got. At any rate
there is this about the New Plymouth field *
it is known to have yielded at least 30 000
barrels of oil.
Ihe long-awaited co. to develop the Ellyou
options on the New Guinea goldfields was
registered in Sydney last week as New
ktd-, with a nominal capi-
tal of £5,250,000. The Ellyou co., in London,
will go into, voluntary liquidation and trans-
fer i, ts options and rights to the new co.
G. Goldfields issued capital will largely
depend on the options exercised. No share's
m ill be offered for subscription in Australia,
but . the granters of options exercised will
receive fully paids for their interests. The
Ellyou Co. was to provide £1,000,000 to
develop the properties, and £250,000 of this
has been raised. Arrangements are being-
made to get the other £750.000 in London.
* * * *
The annual report of Placer Development,
which holds options on the Bulolo from
Guinea Gold, is optimistic but vague as to
values. The prospects include a series of
beach leases on the right bank of the Bulolo
Kiver, below the debouchment of Ivoranga
Greek. These were tested in a sort of wav
by a co. which took and then abandoned an
option on them before Placer Development
hopped in.
The Placer Co., which is making a very
thorough examination of the ground, claims
that depths and values are consistent
throughout, and that the property is a most
promising dredging proposition, likely to
Aval rant the installation of a couple of
machines with buckets of S c.y. capacity
That looks like fairly free digging To get
the dredges up to that mountain valley
perched among the clouds, looks a big job
However, a road practicable for motor-
lorries and a railway from the coast to the
held are looming, and either will solve the
problem.
Recently the co. took over Clutha Develop-
ment s interests in Maoriland for 7500 fully
pauls. On the other hand, it has abandoned
its options in Alaska and Colombia Paid
capital is approximately £40,000, in shares
of 5 dollais each. These advanced sharply
from 395. to 04s. during the last few weeks.
* * * *
The present Sydney boom in New Guinea
gold shares has some interesting aspects
While Edie Creek and the Bulolo have
earned, and probably still carry, good gold
that is not to say that every hole in New
Guinea soil is going to turn out another
Palmer River. It is worth noting that thus
far only two of the many New Guinea public
floats have done anything in the way of
production and dividend paying, these being
Guinea Gold and Edie Creek Prop. Of the
numerous others, several have been forth-
right enough to put up the shutters, and
some are still hiding behind a smoke-screen
of reports. It is possible that there is gold
in these shows, but the anxiety to hawk
them round on option rather than to try to
get the stuff out arouses suspicion.
Even in those cases where undoubted
values have been proved, the accessibility or
otherwise of their location needs to be con-
sidered. It is easy to talk of building roads
and railways, but the cost of their upkeep
will be tremendous. Cos. are being floated
on the airy say-so of individuals of no par-
ticular experience and little but glowing
verbiage to support their claims. Places
difficult to reach when carrying a light swag
and a dish and shovel, have been described
as ideal ground for machinery. These Wild
Cats are likely to do great harm to the more
reputable enterprises.
The Mt. Wright lode, Ravenswood (N.Q.),
has been boosted in some quarters as a pos-
sible big low-grade gold deposit. As such
it attracted attention from representatives
of the Whitworth Corporation, which after-
wards become interested in tin at Irvinebank.
General-manager Travers and several other
officials recently made a cursory inspection of
Mt. Wright, and it is understood an option
has been secured. Travers, who seems to be
much in love with the mineral belt in North
Queensland, is talking of a £1,000,000 flota-
tion to embrace gold and tin groups in that
region, and Mt. Wright will probably turn
out to be one of their mainstays in gold.
* * *
Desultory prospectors on Charters Towers
have discovered something worth further
investigation at the Carrington and Old Man
claims. In the latter a Bft. reef has been
followed down to 60 feet; a nice shoot of
mixed sulphide ore was met with and a bulk
sample taken 2ft. across the body assayed
21dwt. gold, 360 z. silver and 3.5 p.c. copper.
It also carries lead and zinc. The values
are in the sulphides, which carry up to 4oz.
gold and 8.50 z. silver, At the Carrington
a bunch of ore was found at the 50ft. level,
a picked sample averaging 16 p.c. copper
and 6dwt. gold. It is evidently a shoot off
the main lode, which was worked 20 years
ago to a depth of about 600 ft. and paid some
very fair dividends. This last strike will
encourage prospecting in an area which, on
past records, warrants further examination,
especially with copper around its present
price.
Birch Tin, Ltd., which has been dredging
at intervals during the past year along the
Severn River, in the Stanthorpe district,
has not struck easy money yet. The first
area was found to be unsuitable, and, with
the _ cost of the plant, swallowed all the
initial capital. However, shareholders stood
in again with further cash to secure fresh
areas and cover cost of plant removal. The
first month’s operations about cover working
costs. The ground is again reported to be
hard and recoveries difficult. If the co. can
hang on there is in that country a good
chance of a lucky pocket of tin.
Boulder Perseverance is now one of Ival-
goorlie’s well-managed shows, so the manage-
ment might deny or confirm current rumors
that a rich development has been disclosed
at one of the lower levels. A number of
market operators know, or think they know,
something, and thei'e has been activity and a
rise in the shares. An official announcement
disclosing the result of recent work would
be a fair thing.
* ❖ jJj *
Pending further calls Golden Butterfly’s
cash is exhausted and mining operations
have been suspended. It is proposed to buy
the adjoining Mararoa mine and plant, but
how the deal is to be financed has not been
stated. Treatment of some of the ore stacked
at surface might be a benefit. At any rate
it would give shareholders an idea of the
grade of the lode.
* * * *
Wiluna’s big main shaft is. down 410 feet.
Mill engines and tube mills have been
ordered and foundations at the mill site
commenced. The railway to Wiluna should
be completed by Christmas, and the whole
plant probably working by the end of next
year. The big job is being pushed ahead
earnestly.
* * * ;t;
Gibraltar, near Coolgardie, one of W.A.’s
oldest mining centres, has been disappointing,
but its old Lloyd George show, by milling
125 tons for 3280 z., has just done something
better than ever before. Years ago the mine,
mostly owned in Sydney then, promised well,
but as levels were extended' the lode faulted,
and was lost. The recent yield is from a
new deposit.
* * * *
Thomo Tin, a Melbourne float which
started life as a gold prospecting show, has
decided to let the other fellow do it. Its
Iluey Yot property has been sold to Tongkali
('ompound. The new co. to work the show
will be Tongkah Compound No. 5, with a
nominal capital of £150,000 in £1 shares.
Thomo gets 28,833 paids and £19,367 cash.
But after handing the original vendors
12,883 paids and satisfying creditors, it ex-
pects to come out of the deal with only about
£B5OO in cash and 16,000 paids. Its share-
holders will be offered a further 23,875 oon-
tribs., and 77,292 shares are to be taken up
by Tongkali Compound.
* * * *
Rawang, one of the first of Alluvial Tin’s
offspring, netted £35,287 for the year to
March 31 last. AlO p.c. div. took £24,000,
and £34,830 was carried forward. The co.
is one of the few in Malaya running a
modern dredge and a sluicing outfit in com-
bination. Recoveries have averaged about
•701 b. from the twin plants for a long time.
Shortly the co. will be merged with the
two Serendahs into Rawang Tinfields. The
pound shares are around 335. on the market.
* * * *
Kuala Karnpar Tinfields, which last year
amalgamated three of Alluvial Tin’s floats,
announces a profit of £115,404 for the year
to March 31. Of this £3735 was struck off
for depreciation, £68,250 was paid in divs.
and £6378 earned prior to incorporation
placed to capital reserve, leaving £37,041 to
go forward. Paid capital is £585,000 in
10s. shares. Costs worked out at 3|d. per
c.y. for the year.


Company to be Registered.
South Western Queensland & New England Fresh Meat
Supply Co., Ltd.
(WALLANGARRA)
To be Registered under the provisions of the Companies Acts of Queensland.
NOMINAL CAPITAL, £75,000
Divided into 75,000 shares of £1 each, of which
50,000 are available for public subscription, payable 2/6 per share on application,
2/6 per share on allotment, and the balance in calls not exceeding
2/6 per share per month.
6000 shares are to be issued as fully paid up and allotted to the promoters.
19,000 shares shall be held for the present and will be issued at a later date.
£250 in cash for expenses incurred shall be paid to the promoters
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS: C. HARFORD, ESQ., 103 Bavswater Road, Darlinghurst, Sydney;
A.-E. WOODROW, ESQ., Bryden, Nellie Street, Claylield, Brisbane; J. A. BROWN, ESQ., of Durham Downs
Station, Roma, Queensland. Two other Directors to be appointed.
BANKERS: The ENGLISH, SCOTTISH & AUSTRALIAN BANK, LIMITED, comer of Queen and Creek
Streets, Brisbane; and Sydney.
SOLICITORS: MESSRS. MORRIS, FLETCHER & CROSS, B. & F. Chambers, Adelaide Street, Brisbane
AUDITOR: J. A. COTHAM, ESQ., 113 and 115 Federal Deposit Bank Chambers, Queen Street Brisbane.
SFPRFTARV (PRO TEM 1 & REGISTERED OFFICE: Mr. H. W. DAVIS, Atlas Chambers, 29 Adelaide
Brietanf; and No? 14 Bank of Australasia Chambers. 2 Martin Place, Sydney.
BROKERS: Application for shares can be made through any members of the Stock Exc anges.
OBJECTS.
The main objects for which this company is being formed are:—To establish a Fresh Meat
Supply at Wallangarra for the purpose of eliminating present existing wastage and deterioration of meat
and thus supply wholesale and retail butchers iu Sydney, Melbourne and other large towns in the
Commonweal tit with prime meat in the carcass, also mutton and pork, direct from the pastures iu
Queensland.
It will be readily appreciated how meat, must deteriorate when cattle trucked to Sydney market
must be dipped in a strong arsenical dip and then trucked a distance of 500 miles. Without doubt,
treatment of this kind tends to deteriorate and actually deteriorates the quality of the meat, and thereby
reduces it to that of second class.
A further important factor is the loss in weight of cattle owing to these unavoidable conditions
when trucking them on the hoof. It is a fact accepted by the leading butchers of jßydney that a fat
bullock trucked from Queensland will lose in weight anything from 801 b. to 1001 b. ' When it is taken
into consideration that 700 to 800 bullocks are trucked weekly from Queensland to the Sydney
market this will convey some idea what tire colossal losses in £ s. d. it must mean to the Pastoralists
in Queensland and New England.
With the establishing of works at Wallangarra this state of affairs will bo eliminated, and not
only will these losses be wiped out, but on the other hand the Company will be in a position to market
Queensland meat more economically in a prime condition, and thereby obtain the highest ruling prices.
it might be here mentioned that the Southern States are dependent on Queensland for at least
one-quarter of their present beef supply, and with the yearly increase of population the position from
year to year must necessarily become more acute in so far as their supply is concerned, as their fattening
areas are now being stocked to their fullest capacity. It is therefore clear that Queensland must in
the future be looked to as the principal supplier to, the Southern markets.
Again, it can be claimed that Wallangarra is’ probably in the most favored position of the Com-
monwealth for works of this kind, as, being so situated that supplies can be drawn without trucking
or dipping from New England and South-Western Queensland the meat, from which centres is
admitted to be the primest going into Sydney markets, when under favorable conditions.
A Bullock weighing Gsolb. at Wallangarra will, on arrival at Sydney, only weigh
6001 b., taking market, value at 40/- per 1001 b. .. .. .. .. .. £l2 0 0
Less Trucking Charged .. .. .. .. .. ~ .. .. £1 7 6
Less Commission and other Charges .. .. .. .. .... 8 0
1 15 C
Net Return on the her
The same beast treated at Wallangarra (no loss of weight) 6501 b. at 40s.
per 1001 b. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
Less Freight on Carcass at 2/3 per ewt. to Sydney ..
Storage and other Charges .. .. .. .. .. ..
Cost of marketing Hides, Tallow and other By-Products .. ..
£lO 4 6
£l3 0 0
12 6
2 6
8 6
l3 6
Net Return in the Carcass .. .. .. .. .. .. £ll 16 6
It will be seen from the above comparison that a saving of £1 12s. Od. per head is made by
forwarding the meat to Sydney in the carcass.
TRANSIT AND DISTRIBUTION OF MEAT.
The Directors have entered into negotiations with the New South Wales Railway Authorities in
regard to the transit of meat from Wallangarra to Sydney and other towns en route. Refrigerated
trucks will be supplied and the running time from Wallangarra to Sydney will be a matter of only
24 hours. Cold storage has also been arranged for in Sydney, and distribution of meat will be under
the personal supervision of the Company’s Managing Director, C. Harford, Esq.
ESTIMATE OF GROSS RECEIPTS BASED ON 150 BULLLOCKS PER WEEK.
Hereunder is shown an approximate estimate of receipts bused on the treating of 150_ bullocks pei
week as a commencSnent! the Directors believing it is sounder to commence with a small output and
increase the production as the business becomes more firmly established. It b^t ei basis in
although the Company is in a position to buy at from l£d. to 2d. per lb. on a Dercer oasis in
Oueonsfand than carcass butchers operating at Homebush, a minimum of id. per lb. is all that is
allowed as a gross whieh must be considered a most conservative and safe estimate. Again it
Will h? noticed that only £2 per head is allowed for a return of by-products. This is at least 20
per cent, less than the prices ruling to-day. The Directors again deem n® p res rat
rather than over-estimate the return from such by-products. It can be safely claimed that on present
ruling prices each beast would easily return £2 15s. for such by-pioducts.
RECEIPTS.
Saving on Freights and Loss of Weight in the Carcass as against Trucking on
the hoof (per head) .. •• •• i 7
Minimum Profit of Id. per lb. on Carcass of 6uo (per carrass) .. • • •' n n
By-products, including Hides, Tallow, Bones, Horns and Fertilisers (per head) 2 0
Estimated Receipts and Expenditure based on 150 Bullocks.
£240
203
300
£743 2 6
TO GENERAL CHARGES
Rents, Depreciation, Salaries,
Insurance, Freight and Storage,
Selling and all Overhead Expenses
including Income Tax
£23,516 11 7
BY RECEIPTS (based on 150 bullocks)
Saving on freight and loss of
weight in the carcass as against
trucking on the hoof .. ..£12,480 0
Minimum profit of id. per lb. .. 10,562 10
Returns from By-Products .. 15,600 0
£38,642 10 0
NET PROFIT, £15,125/18/5, or 27£ PER CENT. ON CAPITAL OF £55,000.
The Directors can with every confidence recommend the shares as amongst the
soundest investments that have been offered to the public for many years, and,
further, the company is being formed to carry out the recommendations of the
Beef Cattle Industry Commission as being the only solution of Supplying Sydney
with Prime Queensland Beef.
STOCK EXCHANGE.
The Articles of Association have been prepared in accordance with the rules and ock
the Stock Exchange with the object of listing the stock as soon as possible in Sydney and Brisbane Stock
Exchanges. . '
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
Applications for shares can be made through any members of the Stock Exchanges or through the
Company’s Secretary, Atlas Chambers, 29 Adelaide Street Brisbane; or thc Cornpany s Sydney Offiee/sO.U
Second Floor, Bank of Australasia Chambers, 2 Martin Place, Sydney. PROSPECTUS CAN BE HAD O
APPLICATION TO ANY OF THE ABOVE. Sydney ’Phone No. 8W5176.
Forster’s Bedsteads Ltd,
MARY ANN STREET, ULTIMO.
('Phone: M 4247).
Forster s Bedsteads Ltd.
manufactured the first
Hospital Bedstead in
Australia , and are still
manufacturing the finest
Hospital Bedsteads used
throughout the Common-
wealth.
%Wmm,
©
A very up-to-date Bedstead used in numerous hospitals through-
out the Commonwealth. Has adjustable back and Hercules
Diamond Wire. Made with 1 Jin. posts. Can be made with
square corners at foot end if required, also lift-out foot end.
ẁ
THE LARGEST PLANT OF ITS KIND IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
\
Manufacturers also of Wood Beds, Ice Chests, Mattresses, Chairs, also Steel Shelving, Lockers and Cupboards.


w
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD.
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders. (3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sum assured and no
' 1 the Association and no deduction made from policy or bonuses. deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost evoiy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men of integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Desert Song”
Criterion “Laff That Off”
Royal “Brewster’s Millions”
Palace Nicola
Tivoli Vaudeville
State Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “A Night Out”
Royal “Dracula”
Kino's “The Face at the Window”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
*
The Bulletin’s Melbourne critic went to
the opening of the new Broadcasting era
at That is to say, he stayed at home,
put the head-'phones on and turned a threat-
ening face to the rest of the family; where-
upon the rest of the family decided that,
in the circumstances, the best thing to do
was to go to bed. Stuart Doyle invited
Gibson, P.M.G., to declare the station open,
which he did, although he was 100 miles
away. Marvels like this are so common-
place nowadays as hardly to cause any sur-
prise. Mr. Doyle announced that his co. was
satisfied that by hard work, initiative and
free expenditure it would be able to please
everybody; which shows that there is no
truth in the statement that all Australians
are pessimists. However, if all the pro-
grammes are kept up to the standard of the
first, at least one section of the community
will have no cause for complaint. To be
offered Walter Kirby, William Bossencc,
Madame Joy McArden and Alexander
Brailowsky, as well as an orchestra capable
of giving considerable body to Wagner’s
“Rienzi” and Tschaikowsky’s Fourth Sym-
phony for less than a penny (which is what
the license fee works out at per night), sounds
a bit too good to be true. It sounds much
too good to be true, and the co. would
be well advised not to try to do too much
at once. To follow a Chopin nocturne by
Brailowsky with “Giggling Gertie,” rendered
by the “Big Four,” is to exasperate almost
as many subscribers as one may please. The
theatres never try to cater for every type of
playgoer on one and the same night. Let
there be jazz one night, light opera and
vaudeville the next, and classical music the
next, Mr. Doyle, if you like; but don’t mix
your drinks too much if you want to see
the taste for radio and the license fees grow.
* * *
With producer Frank Clewlow’s return
from Europe, Melbourne Reps, have moved
back to their old stamping-ground, the Play-
house. Their opening number there was “A
Hundred Years Old,” by the brothers Quin-
tero —a Spanish sweetmeat which reveals
that there are no international boundaries
to the ,T. M. Barrie philosophy of life; nor
copyright in the salubrious platitudes of the
late Dr. Frank Crane.
Don Juan, a nonagenarian, wondrous
sprightly for his years, invites to his 100th
birthday party all his descendants, regard-
less of the fact that with the passage of
the years some have progressed up the
social scale and some taken the down-
ward path ; some are vulgarly rich, and some
proudly poor; and one has had the misfor-
tune to bear an illegitimate child. Here is
an opportunity for some mordant criticism
of life; some scope for directing the search-
light of a mature observation into the darker
recesses of the human heart. But the motive
of the Quintero brothers —or their capacity
as dramatic chefs —is to produce light re-
freshment and nothing more. The birthday
party proves a huge success, largely, one
gathers, because the more irreconcilable ele-
ments have been reduced to a temporary and
maudlin state of general friendliness by Papa
Juan’s wine.
Accepting its obvious limitations, “One
Hundred Years Old” is pleasant enough
comedy, and it was excellently played. No-
thing better could be expected anywhere than
Betty Rae’s portrayal of Dona Filomana, the
somewhat incredibly tart poor relation of
the don; and Ruby May’s Marciala had a
gentle poise and dignity that were gratifying
to look upon. Winifred Collins, as Currita,
and Mr. Clewlow, as Trino, were wisely care-
ful not to overload their love-making lest
they blow the fuses of the Quintero brothers’
simple view of things. Terence Crisp, who
has previously been cast in young man or
even boy parts, appeared as Don Juan, and
made that patriarch one of the most endur-
able spectacles of stage senility this critic
has seen.
* * *
Both Melbourne’s chief music factories were
in full blast on Saturday night and each drew
a packed house. At the Town Hall, Bernard
li'einze’s fourth “celebrity concert” had
pianist Murdoch and baritone Harold Wil-
liams as its two big draiving cards, and
the Victorian Liedertafel and the Uni-
versity Symphony Orchestra added their
weight. Brahms's Symphony No. lin C
minor was the opening item. If Brahms had
been a writer he would have written three-
decker novels and long ones at that. The
performance lasted nearly 50 minutes and
was accepted by the audience with exemplary
patience, if not with the sort of enthusiasm
which greets a Chopin nocturne. The orches-
tra tackled its titanic job with the optimism
of youth, and it says much for the progress
of the Heinze organisation that it succeeded
in sustaining interest in such a deeply philo-
sophical and mentally exhausting work. The
Cesar Franck variations followed, with Mur-
doch at the keys, and this lighter and more
colorful stuff was admirably done.
Dusolina Giannini began her first concert
at the Auditorium with some Mozart and
some preliminary hard notes. But when she
launched herself on the “Vissi d’Arte” aria
from “Tosca," the house accepted the tall
Junoesque lady as a great Italian prima
donna with a more than adequate voice. Fol-
lowed a number of Italian and English airs,
which demonstrated her capacity to express
passion or describe a simple domestic scene.
Bill Anderson dragged “The Face at the
Window” out of Oblivion’s basement, dusted
it and put it on at Melb. King’s on Satur-
day. It is said to be the first mystery play
ever written, though the same claim was
made for another specimen of dramatic
water-on-the-knee seen some time ago. That
was “No. 17,” and the ring should be cleared
and the two plays allowed to fight the ques-
tion out, using their favorite weapons.
Anderson’s production is notable for con-
taining possibly the deadliest villain in stage
history. As the satanic Lucio Delgardo,
Norman Shepherd curdles the blood even
before he commits his first murder with
the iron dagger. Darcy Kelway, as Pottin-
gcr the Cockney, is the play’s most per-
sistent and pardonable intrusion. Another
person who calls for comment is Dorothy
Sykes, as Babette,
the French maid,
whose most admir-
able lines are not
those provided by
the playwright. The
Face would strike
more horror into an
audience if its legs
did not accompany
it.
¥ #
For the opening
attraction in the
new Crown-street
home of Sydney
Playbox, Duncan
Macdougall selected
Herman Heijer-
man’s “The Good
Hope,” set in a
Dutch fishing vil-
lage, where the
humble populace
depends upon Clem-
ens Bos, owner of
a fleet of unsea-
worthy, heavily
insured vessels, for
the means of earn-
ing a crust. Among
the villagers are
Kniertje, widowed
by the sea that has
robbed the village
of many of its men
and boys, and her
two sons, Geert and
Barend. The por-
tion of the town's
population that
appears on the
stage also includes
Jo, Kniertje’s
spirited niece;
Clementina, Bos’s
good-looking daugh-
ter ; a drunken
shipwright and
Marietje, his
daughter; and a
number of other fisherfolk, among them Uncle
Cobur and his workhouse crony. Kniertje’s
son Barend is a coward, afraid of the sea ; but
Geert, who has been expelled from the navy
for insubordination and for reading political
papers of crimson tendencies, has plenty of
backbone, and manages to offend Bos hy a
lusty rendering of the “Marseillaise” at a
welcome-home party.
The brothers —Barend under compulsion—
join the crew of the Good Hope, one of
Bos’s boats, which the shipwright had pre-
viously declared a coffin-ship, though his
warning was regarded as mere boozy ravings.
Before embarking, Geert and Jo and Marietje
and another sailor exchange loving fare-
wells. Then comes the powerful third act,
which follows the departure of the Good
Hope. A storm rages outside, while a num-
ber of women, mostly getting along in years,
sit in a room and gloomily debate the pro-
bable fate of the crew. Jo, who had given
herself without the sanction of the pastor to
Geert, is especially affected by the orgy of
despair. The Good Hope duly goes to the
bottom, and in Act. iv Bos, with the insur-
ance money secure and the attempt of the
shipwright to expose him defeated, is shown
in the r6le of the sympathetic philanthro-
pist, a fine piece of satire.
Outstanding in a well-cast party were Mrs.
Madeleine Howell (Kniertje) and Mattie
Doyle (Jo). Robin Copp, as Geert. was
handicapped by the fact that his face and
voice contradicted the role, but Duncan Mac-
dougall was satisfying in the comedy role
of Fuele Cobur. Kenneth Barrett, Jack
Lloyd, Lynda Kent and Mabel Parsons also
helped to carry the good show successfully
along.
V
George Barr McCutcheon, when he wrote
the story that gave the stage “Brewster's
Millions," made popular a plot basis that
has been more over-worked in fiction and for
light stage offerings than almost any other.
The keeping of the conditions of an eccen-
tric will was the big idea in scores of entries
for the first Bulletin Novel Competition,
and it is to be met in every second or third
book of popular fiction. Not that it is alto-
gether a bad idea; when the conditions are
as ingeniously designed to produce compli-
cations as they are in the Brewster will,
quite good farce or even light comedy is well
on the cards. Amusing situations and occur-
rences seem practically certain when, as here,
a young man about town inherits a pretty
cosy fortune, and on top of that is left a
round couple of millions on condition that
he gets rid of the first fortune in a year
without extravagance, at the same time not
being stingy.
It is all to the good, of course, if this
young man is one of those inconsequent good
chaps whose very weakness makes them
admirable. Then the audience can feel
superior in the matter of intelligence, while
the one it feels for still lias his own superi-
ority in his wealth and in the romantic sort
of life he is leading; which actually permits
the audience to have it both ways and makes
the character pretty nigh perfect for stage
NYDIA D ARNELL, who will lead in “Show Boat” at Melbourne
Majesty’s on Saturday.
light-comedy purposes. That is Monty Brew-
ster as designed. As played by Leon Gor-
don he is not quite the same chap. Mr.
Gordon purveys a Monty Brewster who is
actually a superior business man. You know
from the minute you meet him that he is
going to succeed. You can’t feel the slight-
est pity for him ; he, you know, will make a
thousand times better fist of dissipating coin
than you’d ever dream of. A curious flaw
in a good actor’s dramatic equipment, this
impression that Mr. Gordon will not permit
Mr. Gordon to be laughed at, even though
Mr. Gordon is not Mr. Gordon at all, but
that lovable old fruit Monty Brewster.
Eve Ormonde is one of the surprises of
the show. Her voice is unusually pleasing
to listen to, and though, in common with the
20-odd others who hang around Brew-
ster, her part is comparatively insignificant,
she puts genuine feeling into it. Anyone
who has seen a Gordon show knows the
quality of the support that is provided by-
Frank Bradley, B. N. Lewin, Mary Mac-
Gregor and the well-cast rest; but in this
offering the very best work is done by
Gregan McMahon, who doesn’t appear.
He produces brilliantly, and his stage
effects are daring and completely satis-
fying. Indeed, the show is as much worth
seeing for its effects as for any of its act-
ing ; they justify the revival.
In “Laff That Off" Alan Bunco, Ruth
Nugent and George Henry Trader, aided
and abetted by Sam Wren, Reginald Newson.
Gertrude Augarde and Sadie Bedford, com-
mit another charming comedy at Sydney
Criterion —an amusing chapter of youth ex-
plored with polished acting. Peggy Bryant
(Miss Nugent), an actress out of a job, is
rescued from starvation by Leo Mitchell
(Mr. Bunco), who takes her to a flat he
shares with a couple of friends, borrows
from them enough to get her luggage out of
her landlady’s hands, and sends her off with
the cash. Mitchell is branded a fool for
trusting a strange girl with money, though,
a little later, after they have proposed to
her and been turned down, they press on her
their savings to help her with a stage job
she has been offered. .There is nothing much
else to it. except that she turns out a real
good girl, but the light-hearted acting of
principals and supports makes of it an enter-
tainment quite up to the standard of the fine
little company’s earlier offerings.
• ¥ *
A show which has strong points of appeal
for adults, and which for youngsters knocks
the average pantomime hollow, is that pro-
vided by Nicola at Sydney Palace. Most of
his magic depends upon mechanical devices,
but he has made a neat art of the manipula-
tion of them. His costume-change appa-
ently in full view of tin; audience is a
first-rate illusion, so neatly deceptive and
humorous that it adds positive pleasure to
having a leg well stretched. For the small
fry, tlie production of innumerable eggs, the
disappearance of wild fowl, from ducks and
guinea-pigs to lovely young ladies, and a
score or two other marvels make a rare
entertainment. Ibex, with his shadowgraphs,
adds strong support, and Herman Ilolmberg
throws in some clownish foolery.
* * *
Sydney amateurs are chanting hymns of
hate against the ’flu. The latest of them to
feel the force of the epidemic were the under-
studies at the yEolian Hall, where, upon
an inadequate stage, Miss Carrie Tennant
last week presented a quintette of one-act
plays—“ Reprieve,” by Carrie Tennant, Lord
Dunsany’s pleasing fantasy, “Fame and the
Poet,” Frank Middleton’s “The Visitor” and
an amusing sketch entitled “Secrecy.” In
“Reprieve” an unorthodox-looking angel per-
suades a young scientist not to commit
suicide by helping him to a glimpse of “after
death,” in which he sees his mercenary wife
exploiting the serum that he left to benefit
humanity without cost. The District Nurs-
ing Association collected the two nights’
takings.
* * *
With not misplaced confidence Melbourne
Tivoli management is this week asking the
public to compare its show with the sort of
vaudeville provided by the talkies. A first
part decorated with the twin and clever feet
of the Reno brothers and the funny charac-
terisations of the Creightons is succeeded
by a second section given over to the “192!)
Follies.” These include Jack Edge, a fellow
who never fails to keep his finger on the
funnybone of an audience, and Joe Marks,
a new arrival. Marks, a small Jew, is a
most ridiculous comedian and an eccentric
dancer of amazing versatility. His unceas-'
ing energy is coupled to a show that breaks
all previous speed records.
The *■ Sydney - house continues to rely
chiefly on the ventriloqual act of David
Poole.
V
The principal offering at Sydney State,
“The Man I Love,” is a boxing talkie much
better than its title. In fact, it is the best
movie of the prize ring that present Show-
man has seen. Most of the supporting
“shorts” cannot be so praised, but here and
at the Prince Edward the music continues
better than in other Sydney pits.
* * H-
Adelaide, had its first hearing of Noel
Coward through the Repertory’s three-night
showing of “Hay Fever,” the summer-time
comedy of lightest texture already outlined
on this page. Malcolm Symons both pro-
duced and played, Muriel Craigie came back
to the stage she has left too long, Edna
Heysen showed the family genius in another
form, and the rest were all good. But it was
Ethelwyn Robin’s evening, in a Marie
Tempest kind of part, the retii-ed actress
overstressing every emotion, as, when pecked
on the ear by a flirtatious guest: “What
are we to Do? My husband must be told
All!” It would be difficult to go wrong in
Coward, a sort of modern Wilde without the
machine-made epigrams; but Miss Robin
gave him full value.
* * *
“Wild Molly-o,” in which Nellie Bramley
now appears at Brisbane Royal, tells the
yarn of a girl who, rescued from the streets
hy McMillan Forrester, a young novelist, is
so transformed by her surroundings that in
a mere matter of hours she has reformed her,
good Samaritan’s beery brother and married
him. At His Majesty’s the talkies have been
silenced to permit a season of “The Patsy."
and “The Desert Song” is promised for Exhi-
bition Week (Aug. 12-17).


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Risk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc
B3MEEE]
£5 I —i.— l =
* AH3IA
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Build With
WUNDERLICH
Materials
Guard against faulty work
obtain the highest value by in-
sisting on Wunderlich Building
Materials, which include: —
Art Metal Ceilings, Terra Cotta
Roofing Tiles, Asbestos Cement
(Durabestos) Building Sheets.
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
AOBRIGINALITIES
HOW IT AFFECTED WILLIAM JOHN.
GEORGE-HENRY (as Cap’n departs after giving a piece of his mind): “’Twere on tip
my tongue to tell Cap’n to go t’ bad place.”
WILLUM-JUHN: “Damme, ’twere on tip o’ my tongue t’ kick the back of ’un!”
“The Combers”: At a wallaby drive one
of the shooters was a lovable old squatter
(call him Smith), rather near-sighted and
possessed of a good deal of dry humor,
Another was a conceited little man (call him
Cox). At the last drive Smith, who had
blazed away all day without success, was
stationed next to Cox; and there is no doubt
that some pellets from Smithes gun went un-
pleasantly close to his neighbor. After
the drive, when, as usual, the shooters gatm
ered and chatted over the sport, Cox rode
up to a group which included Smith and
indignantly spluttered; “My word, Mr.
Smith, you went very close to shooting me
that drive!” “By George, did IV” Smith
replied delightedly. “I am glad I went
close to something.”
*■■ * * *
“Sea Nomad”; Kenny was a Louisiade
nigger six feet high and as thin as a tele-
graph pole. His head had been “done Mali-
colo fashion” as a piccaninny, with the result
that his long forehead sheered straight back
from his eyebrows. He was always laughing
and from the white man’s point of view was
just as silly as ho looked. But he was as loyal
as his shoulders were round. When Allen
Innes, the manager for B.l*. on Misima, had
the natives carrying his precious household
goods up to the new house on
the hill, Kenny insisted on
transporting the big basket of
crockery, much to Mrs. Innes’s
terror. The usual rains had
made the clay sticky, and there
were just 1000 steep, slippery
log steps rising sheer out of the
creek. Kenny negotiated half
the steps joyfully and then
poised himself and shouted a
song of praise of his own
strength. He was still singing
when he slipped and the crock
cry went crashing down those
500, steps to'the very feet of the
agonised sinabada. Kenny pick-
ed himself up, hurried to the
sinabada, and with his own big
smile unbroken laughed cheer-
fully, “Now we can make-him
plenty-fella jug belong put-him
umbrella, alia same Lady Clunu
lohga Samarai V’ But Mrs.
Innes much preferred her crockery whole,
despite the prettiness of Lady Clunn's drain-
pipes covered with broken crockery and used
as umbrella stands.
# * * *
“Wang”: The boss’s daughter and I, being
deeply in love with each other—she was 12
and I 15—-carved our initials, surrounded by
a heart, deep in the bark of a gum-tree that
grew in solitary state in an open paddock.
The nearest other tree was fully a mile away.
I mention this particularly, in view of
the curious thing I am about to-relate. I
visited the locality a few weeks ago for
the first time' since I left the station, and
that was shortly after the inscription had
been made, 41 years back. I found the old
tree still there; but it had around it nearly
100 others, in various stages of growth,
The initials. and heart were still plainly
decipherable on the tree we had cut them in.
That didn’t surprise me much; what did sur-
prise me greatly was that all of the
younger trees showed on their trunks the
same set of initials enclosed in a heart.
It was very apparent that they were the
progeny of the old free; and, though I had
never thought it possible, it is evident that
the vegetable kingdom is, as with animats,
subject to pre-natal influences. I might
add that nobody to whom I mentioned the
extraordinary circumstance thought such a
thing possible either.
ALWAYS A SILVER LINING.
THE MISSUS: “Look at the hole the little wretch has made in the cheese!”
THE HUSBAND: “Oh, it could 'ave been worse. He might ewe drowned, hisself in
the beer!”
“Keystrifag”: An old cocky up here was
making his second venture a while back,
and after the “breakfast” at a restaurant
lie sent liis new bride away to the seaside
for a fortnight while he returned home ,to
the farm. Upon my referring to his peculiar
honeymoon, he explained matters. “I’d have
gone too,” he said, '“but I’ve got two sows
that’ll want watching for the next few days.”
*# * ■
“ilarvib”: Hiding through the droiight-
stricken Ulumbie paddocks the boss ejacu-
lated, “Gripes, Jackie, those ewes don’t look
too good. What do you think of ’em?” The
abo. relit liis old pipe. “Them pfellers,” lie
confided, “look like-em bin cooking for them
plurry selves.”
=!c * * *
“Catspaw” : “Willah’s” story of the Solo-
mon boy sent to borrow a saw (B. 10/7/’2!> )
reminds me of the effort of a relation of his
who was sent on a similar mission; only
in his case a claw-hammer was the article in
question. Brown brother could cope with
the “hammer” part all right, but the “claw”
was a bit too much for him: This was liis
idea of it: “One feller hammer, backside
belong him allasame tail belong nanny-goat.”
That in a place where goats were as plentiful
as claw-hammers were scarce struck me as
being a rather apt definition.
* *
“Hamer” : The man who struck the idea
of overlanding crayfish from the Bass Straits
to the inland towns of Victoria had great
difficulty at first in getting suitable dogs.
His attempt to breed a cross between the
cattle-dog and the dogfish was a failure,
but finally he hit on the scheme of obtaining
diver-birds whilst fledglings and putting them
to work with cattle-dogs so as pick up their
habits. In a short time he had a pack of
divers which, working the Bass Straits
waters, rounded up the crayfish and drove
them ashore. The mobs of crayfish driven
along the Victorian roads, while the birds
kept them together, were a unique sight, and
brought much profit, being rapidly bought
up in the inland towns. Having made a
fortune, the Crayfish King, as he was called,
bought a pub, at which he refused to sell any
drinks, wanting all the liquor for himself.
When he had drunk his fifth pub dry, and
dissipated his entire fortune, he realised that
he could have done much better if he had
purchased a brewery. He died of a broken
heart.
* * * *
“Esau”: Isolation makes bush-dwellers
timid and shy in the presence of strangers,
yet in facing hardships they are heroes. Once
it was my business to visit a lonely selection
run by two women. I was greeted at the
gate by the barking of dogs. Next minute I
caught a glimpse of two female figures racing
for the scrub from the back of the house.
Pretending not to have seen what had
occurred, I rode up to the front door and
cried' out. “Anybody at home?” The dogs
kept barking and straining at their chains,
yet not a soul appeared. After about five
minutes I rode off, and at the next selection
made discreet inquiries about the ladies.
“Them two always clear out when strangers
come round,” was the reply. “They can break
in a horse, and kill and dress a sheep, hut
they’ll crawl up hollow logs like native cats
if a man goes near ’em.” Another time I
rode up to a selection in the wilds of Bin-
gara (N.S.W.). Three children were on
the verandah of the house, and on seeing me
two raced round the back screaming out,
“Gome quick, Mum, there’s a man like dad
on a horse.” The third child remained sil-
ting upon a bag of flour, fear of me written
all over her. I said, facetiously, “And why
do you not also run away, . lassie ?” She
answered bravely, “’Cos my mummie says
I’ve got to sit on the flour and keep the mice
out.” That child was a heroine.
* * * *
“Larrapinta”: I once helped to take a
mob across Carrandotta station (W. Queens-
land), and our cattle, reared on soft country,
grew very tender-footed on the stony ground.
When wc reached Sandy Creek, a tributary
of ths Georgina, Ave had to cross a broad
bed of sand to get to the water. As soon
as the sore-footed cattle felt the soft sand
underfoot, down went their heads, up went
their tails, and in a few minutes well over a
thousand head of cattle were playing and
frisking about like so many lambs. But
the fun didn’t last long. Here and there
bullocks which had been given an extra-hard
prod from another beast’s horns grew savage,
and turned the play into a riot. With crack-
ing whips, all the drovers charged down the
bank to stop the fighting, but it took a lot
of hard riding and yelling to do it. When
we had them quiet again, there were bullocks
with horns knocked off and others with torn
and bleeding flanks; and on the sand lay
several prime beasts, gored to death.
* # * *
“H.P.”: About the time “Jim Carew” (B.
10/7./’29) cut his initials in the tree,
an argument raged about the poAver of trees
to carry marks or weights upAvards as they
grew. I said they couldn’t; and they can’t.
In old settled districts, trees on the boundary
were utilised as strainers in a wire fence.
These have been there for anything up
to 50 or 60 years. Yet I have never seen
a fence climbing the tree! In early days
the surveyors blazed trees along their lines
with axes. Old survey marks may occasion-
ally still be seen —always axet-high from
the ground.
i'fi 'V- ❖
“Werac” : Bill was hard at Avork with his
adze and the city visitor was an interested
spectator. “I say,” he broke out at last—
“if you missed the wood and cut your foot,
would it do much damage?” “It would,”
drawled Bill—“ I’d die of shame.”
(Continued on page 2L>.)
THE HAPPY HIPPO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Under order from Africa are a pair of rhino-
ceroses, two zebras, two Barbary sheep', two spring-
boks, two pairs of leopards, four pairs o! lemurs, a
pair of warthogs and one female hippopotamus.
—Taronga Park item.
Heart up! Amphibious pachyderm so
massive,
To celibacy long condemned perforce,
Taronga’s imperturbable, impassive,
Aloof and solitary river-horse.
It hurts a man—and how much more a
hippo.—-
To be debarred from the connubial state,
So from the land of Hottentot and Cyppo
They’re bringing you a mate.
’Tis little you exhibit to beholders
Save traces, sticking from the water out,
Of ponderous back and Brobdingnagian
shoulders.
Enormous cranium and Gargantuan spout.
I wonder would it thrill with wild emotion
Your vast phlegmatic carcase if you knew
What’s being carried o’er the Indian Ocean,
Exiled recluse, for you.
She- comes, along with rhinos, leopards,
lemurs, *
Springboks and zebras, warthogs and
what not,
She who shall re-awake your cardiac tremors
And share your tank, your tucker and
your lot.
The others travel paired, like those whose
exes.
Old Father Noah footed in the Ark ;
Her job's to equalise the hippo, sexes
Inside Taronga Park.
Here’s luck, then, huge and ruminating
mammal!
Soon may your life be lit by love's low
laugh,
Or what approaches to it in the camel
And doubtfully articulate giraffe.
It’s touched custodians’ hearts, your plight
monastic,
As often as they look upon their wives.
And may your greeting be enthusiastic
For yours, when she arrives.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


The
Weight
of your
Rabbit
Skins
may total lb., cwts. or
tons, but the largest cheque
possible is wanted, what-
ever the quantity may be.
Send your Rabbit, Fox and
other skins to
o
7 ,v\ ;
Ul\
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
, , ± LTD
and secure it. They have one service for all clients
i P, est ’ -^ nd their capable work as salesmen
constantly produces top values, accurate and prompt
returns. Offices: v
WINCHCOMBE HOUSE
BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY.
and
99-101 EAGLE ST
BRISBANE.
dWaii!
size n Two '*ss
SILK CITT VIRGINIA
They Satisfy
because they are made from 100
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys’
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a “GREYS.”
DPAP
IONOON
for
10) for <J>dL CIGARETTES
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights’'
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20.
PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
The DIFFERENCE in buying
at PEAPES is in the BETTER
QUALITY, which concentra-
tion on men’s and boys’ needs
makes possible, the BETTER
VALUE which results from a
definitely low all-the-year-round
price uninfluenced by “sales,”
and the BETTER SERVICE
of a staff trained specially to
attend to men and their sons.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
A.M.Ii. ’ (New Hebrides) : Not long ago
I was roaming through the bush on Tanna
and found the ruins of lioss Leuin’s house.
He certainly built it to stand a siege. The
walls, still standing, are* three to four feet
thick, built of coral blocks, carried up from
the beach by his boys, cemented together,
and guaranteed to turn the discharge of any
BERTIE’S LITTLE MISTAKE.
BUSTED BERTIE: "I’m broke and can’t pay for the meal— you
can't get blood from a turnip.”
TERRIBLE TONY: “Yes, but you ain’ta da turnip!”
musket of those days. A big open fireplace
is in one room, and outside stand the
remains of a big bread-oven. The window
apertures are small. As Ross was not popu-
lar with the few authorities about at that
time, he built his house where it was hidden
from the sea and the gaze of prying war-
ships. According to local tradition he planted
large areas of cotton during and after the
American Civil War. His word was law, and
he kept his position secure, more or less, by
an armed bodyguard of Kanakas, about 300
strong, recruited from all over the Pacific.
Being a crack shot was the cause of his
death. One day he fired at a Tanna man
who, thinking that he was safely out of
range, was making off with a bunch of stolen
bananas. It was an almost impossible shot
those days. But the luck of Tommy Tanna
was dead out. Of course the relatives of the
slain man decided to kill the slayer. They
were scared of him, but by arrangement with
some of Ross’s own boys they hung about
THE MARVELS OF THE CITY.
Dad. I think it’s marvellous, Dave, ’ow th' garidge people know
just where to set up a pump an ’ get petrol out o’ the
ground!"
the edge of the bush awaiting their chance.
It came when he went under the store for
some timber. His brother-in-law and -wife got
the body away in a whaleboat, and buried it
at sea to prevent its being eaten. They
themselves afterwards got away in a schooner
from Black Beach, North Tanna. The body-
guard went to pieces; some were killed by
others of their own mob, and some were
killed and eaten by the Tanriese. The house
and store were looted.
*** . *
“Claude W.”: Although many species of
the sole fish are to be found, Queensland is
the only country possessing a purely fresh-
water sole, discovered many years ago in a
mountain stream of Cape York Peninsula bv
the Rev. J. E. Tenison-Woods. During the
earlier stages of their existence some of our
soles push their
way up rivers be-
yond the influence
of salt water, where
amid secure sur-
roundings they
carry out their
breeding opera-
tions; but through
obstructions some
have been unable
to revisit the sea,
and have, therefore,
been compelled to
adapt themselves to
new surroundings
and cultivate new
instincts to meet
the changed condi-
tions. Thus has
the freshwater-sole
come into exist-
ence. Particularly
prominent among
the changes the fish
has had to undergo
has been the altera-
tion in its method
o f reproduction.
Ordinarily the
ovum of its order
floated on the sur-
face of the water,
but with the fresh-
water species it
sinks and attaches
itself to weeds, etc.
This change was
necessary, for, had
the egg remained floating, it would have been
swept seawards and lost.
***
. “Metallique” (B. 26/6/’29) may
include many carpenters as well as bushmen
as believers in what he calls the “irrational
superstition” that sun-heat affects steel.
Most tradesmen I’ve struck find a shady
spot for a valued saw when it’s not in use
My best rip-saw, a corker, was thrown down
in disgust by a mate. It used to screech
like a cockatoo at the touch of a file, so he
dumped it. It’s now easy to sharpen and
cuts beautifully, and the only treatment it
has had is a summer of lying out in a Long-
reach (Q.) sun.
* * * *
. “Nullaroo” : “Mundowie” (B. 3/7/’29) has
cited only a few of the uses to which the
bushman puts his old felt hat. The colt-
breaker slips his dilapidated cady under the
side-straps of his bridle to prevent the out-
law watching him mount. Once aboard he
pulls the hat away,
and hoiglio ! When
the animal has
almost bucked itself
to a standstill, the
hat is again re-
quisitioned as a
flail to thresh out
the last traces of
unruliness. Then
we have the bush-
man in the pub
who hurls his hat
on the floor and
shouts: “Kick 51
an’ I’m inter yer !”
Oft-times it is used
as a mat to lift a
steaming billy of
tea from the fire.
I’ve also seen a
wool-picker, whose
head was visible to
the boss beyond the
top of a bale of
wool, pin his lid to
the bale while he
lay down and had
a sleep. The hatter
will place his old
bit of felt on a
stump and argue
or yarn to it by the
hour. Bushmen de-
vel o p a sincere
attachment that
way. I saw a chap
genuinely distress-
ed because a dust-
storm had carried
his liat away. lie reckoned he’d lost the best
mate he ever had. After three days’ searching
he found it wedged under a bush. “Hooray!”
lie shouted and started to kick it. “Blow
away, would yer? I’ll teach yer!” he said
as he kicked.
* * * *
“Bullwaddy”: It is generally understood
that cabbage-tree hats went out with the
blades, but quite recently old Jack Wilson
turned up at a way-back pub in the Kim-
berley district wearing an ancient specimen
moored to a set of Santa Claus whiskers
per medium .of a leather chin-strap. The
old chap invited us to irrigate, and in pay-
ment produced a dingo scalp from his pack-
bags, receiving as change a small shin-plas-
ter and two crows’ heads. Jack Wilson came
out to the Kimberleys in the ’eighties and was
making for Ord River, where he hoped to get
in' with a mob of bullocks going into Queens-
land ; then he would his way to Sydney,
which he had not seen for 40 vearsl PR
expected he would “find it changed a bit.”
* * :1:
“O’Jones”: In the late afternoon Dad
dropped his baggage at the nearest hotel to
Spencer-street (Melb.) station. When the
night had become illuminated by a full-moon
Dad stood on the kerb, a city of towering con-
crete behind him. “Going for a walk?” a
brother-lodger asked. “No fear, I’m not,”
Dad replied. “I’d never be able to find my
way about this town. Up at Krowawriggle the
moon rises from the railway station, moves
over the cemetery, and sets behind the pub ;
but here it rises in front of the pub, doesn’t
go anywhere near the station, and I don’t
know where the cemetery is. So I don’t
budge from here.”
* * * *
“Pila”: This is a true story, as often
related, by Archibald Middlemiss, who died
at 89 in Vic. not so long ago. Asa young
fellow he endeavored to join the Burke and
Wills expedition. One of his letters to Burke,
which I have read, is still treasured in Mel-
bourne. His plea in vain, he started on a
roving tour that led him to Samoa and
Tonga, and for nearly 20 years he wandered
from island to island, an adventurous trader.
On a speck near Tonga which was rented
from the Government, he established a whal-
ing base. One day he held a supper party
back of a still-live whale; chairs, a
table and a tarpaulin-sheet were placed on
the spouter’s shoulders. Middlemiss after-
wards became a Government official at
Tonga. His widow treasures his watch and
chain, a present from a King George of
those parts.
* * * *
“Gharringa” ; Re “Mango’s” remarks (B.
12/0/29) about the abos. who built a fine
stockyard in Bowen and, notwithstanding
their skill and industry, were afterwards
taken to Yarrabah Mission station and kept
there by force. It wasn’t a bad place for
them either. Situated a few miles from
Cairns, Yarrabah Bay faces the Great Bar-
rier Reef, with a woody mountain range in
the background. Here the a bos. are prac-
tically self-supporting, and live in com-
paratrve luxury. The mission has a sawmill,
with bullock-teams hauling their own tim-
Der; and there are motor-boats and rowing-
boats for fishing and dugong'spearing. 'ine
married rejoice in their little plots of land
where they raise all kinds of vegetables!
lliey have their ow T n school, an orchestra
a , nmvmg pictures. Compare that with
the life of the outside blacks. I know of
a permanent camp near a Chinese market-
garden, where bucks and gins work and give
other services in return for opium. In num-
erous other cases opium or alcohol is the sole
payment for work; and Black Brother is a
willing slave when those poisons are pro-
mised him. Taking all this into account,
I am inclined to think “Mango’s” contractor
had an axe to grind when he bewailed Black
Brothers compulsory sojourn at Yarrabah.
* * * *
“Mango”: We hear a lot about the hard-
est Australian woods; what about a soft-
woods competition? I’ll nominate the kurra-
jong. Ive lopped it in dry times often, and
~s a Pl? asu re to cut. A sharp tomahawk
slices off a four- or five-inch limb at one
blow.
* * * *
John. E.”,; I came upon some abo. skele-
tons while digging out a rabbit-warren near
Maude, below Hay, on the ’Bidgee. The
bones had been reduced to line powder, so
that only the outline of the skeleton re-
mained in the ground. But the teeth, still
lying in the outline of the jaw, were in
perfect condition. The grinding surfaces
wege flat, having none of the cusps, or
ridges, upon which the white man depends
to- masticate his food.
* * * *
“McDuff” : The visitor, leaning on the bar
°t Ryan s pub, eyed with interest the two
ancients seated on a form at one end of the
room. “The oldest inhabitants, I suppose,”
he remarked to Ryan genially. “Yes,”
assented Ryan. “Old Ben Transom, 1
as een here th’ longest, though
old George Scorer runs him pretty close.”
Old George raised a trembling hand to his
mouth and removed his pipe. “J be th’ oldest
he asserted; “I were here before
Ben. Ben, with his whiskers trembling,
turned to George. “You bain’t th’ oldest,
Garge, he quavered; “/ be.” Here he
turned to the visitor. “Y’ve heard, maybe,
mister, of th’ big flood in these yere parts,
70 year agone? Y’ haven’t? Well, there
was one, th biggest ever known here. I’ve
got cause t’ mind it. There wasn’t no
houses in this place then, an’ I’d been
caught by th’ flood ’bout 20 mile back, an’
floated down on a tree-trunk. See that
big tree growin’ over there on th’ other
side of tli road? Well, th’ log I wus on
DRY GIN!
banged into it. It were lucky for me it did,
for it forced th’ log sideways on towards th’
bank, an’ I jest managed t’ scramble out
o’ th’ water. I made my way to old Blinky
Smith’s farm ’bout five mile away, an’ I
been here ever since.” “Well, then, you baint
th’ oldest here, Ben,” George cried trium-
phantly. “When that yere log you wus fin
hit that tree out there it nearly knocked
me into tli’ water. I’d been stuck up in
that tree for near a week afore you came
along.”
CYANIDING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ere shovelling from out the vats and
trucking it away,
{scooping in the tailings dam and loading up
the dray, 6
s . wol 'th three ’weights a ton,
1 hough it’s sometimes down to one,
And you’ve got to shove it through to make
it pay.
Oho there, gold, where you’re hiding in tin'
slime,
There s visitors a-calling, and they’re cyanide
and lime!
Olio there, gold, like a blushing little bride,
I lease to get acquainted with the sinful
cyanide!
We’re ploughing up the caking slime and
screening through the sieve—
Hateful stuff to handle, but a man has got
to live,
And it’s starve or tackle slimes
In these woeful, trying times,
-though it’s only just a living that they give.
Oho there gold, do you feel your spirits sink
Into dissolution till you land upon the zinc?
Oho there, gold, where you’re hiding there
so sly,
Will you please to make acquaintance with
the IvCY?
We re testing the solution strength and drain-
ing off a vat
With a good old mate who’s working like a
scalded tiger-cat,
it’s careful with your breath
When you handle sudden death,
And a most unpleasant sudden death at that'
Oho there, mate, time has come for knock-
ing off,
Time to boil the billy and to get a bit of
scoff.
Oho there, mate, where you’re shovelling
away
And a-toiling like a tiger through the live-
long day!
Now we’re smoking round the fire, and the
stars are overhead—
Good to smoke and yarn o’ nights when a
man has fed
And the bush is hushed and still.
h>° we yarn and smoke until
lhe time has come for blankets to be spread
Oho there, gold, we’ve one pleasant thought
and that’s
About the stuff that’s working hard upon
you in the vats.
Oho there, gold, when we're lying fast asleep,
Gyanides a-shearing all our golden little
sheep!
N.S.W.
E.W. O'BRIEN.


Progress made Possible
DUNLOP
lfc/[EN Women— Commerce Industry owe
AVI much to the fact that this is the Age
of the Automobile and further to the fact
that it was the advent of the Dunlop Pneumatic
Tyre that made the automobile possible.
The remarkable development of the automobile
and all it stands for to-day —is unquestionably
one of the outstanding features of the age.
Best of all is the fact that progress has always
followed in the wake of the motorcar-th
motor truck, and there are " e^ rly ,^’ o °7®®
on the roads of the world to-day some
500,000 being in Australia.
Of all the products linked up with this gigantic
industry, probably the Dunlop pneumatic tyre
had the most far reaching influence in popular-
ising the automobile, m ,
m
*
mrr
i /
m
r
7
l
V
h<?
£•
" T IM-ti
THE PROGRESS achieved
* through the march of the
motor car... quicker transport
... more comfortable travel...
has been paralleled by the
progress made in the art of
tyre building by Dunlop... for
just as Dunlop were first on
the road in 1888, so are these
tyres foremost to-day.
*
*
You can depend on Dunlop
for the utmost in mileage
road grip and that reliable
tyre service which is vital to
enjoyable motoring.
❖ * *
8000 GARAGES STOCK THEM
Who travels on Dunlop - travels well!


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydneyl
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
9
Why be satisfied with less?
SHARE in the benefits that P. & C. Assurance brings ! When times
are hazardous the company keeps policies in force ; a definite
sum is set aside each year for loan purposes. P. &C. policies
are planned to meet the special needs of the man on the land—these
are the things that have resulted from the co-operative basis of the
P. &C. The further fact that the company is linked with the most
influential co-operative bodies in the Commonwealth is yet another
factor in the stability of the company. When such advantages can
be obtained at no extra cost, why be satisfied with less ?
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C., Man. Director: H. Fell
PRODUCERS & r CITIZEN S
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA Ltd..
221-225 ELIZABETH STREET. SYDNEY. M
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
SSI
III!
v ■
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CR PARK & CASTLEREAGH
S[?]S SYDNEY
MORE PRIZES FOR FARMERS.
In order to encourage farmers to pass
on to others the fruits of their observa-
tion and experience, “The Bulletin” will
give three prizes for the most helpful
contributions during the six months to
Dec. 31 next.
Points will be awarded for every con-
tribution submitted, if thought worthy and
whether printed or not, and two prizes
the first of £25 and the second of £lo—
be given to the winners of most
points.
A special prize of £5 will be given for
the best individual contribution.
Only contributions that are of practical
value to men on the land are asked for;
literary merit is not taken into account, so
ong as the meaning is expressed plainly.
The prizes are in addition to the ordi-
nary payments made for all “Bulletin”
contributions.
REJUVENATING GRANITE SOILS.
“Esau”; “Ruffy” (B. 17/7/’2l)) lias
™ h - tarn ? er ® with granite-soil holdings
H™i otll i n S. t( >.thmk about. I did the same
Kind ot thinking three years ago and put it
lif'i 103 . u , se - Having several worn-out
z ith , th< .\ usual havd ci ay cum
„ | L “ 7. lamt . c subsoil pan, I put in a tractor
and a disc plough, ploughing to the depth of
til?- ;; r s °—\ he full depth of the discs—
and alio wed the paddocks to lie from July
* NOVen T lbei ; T wltll , their guts torn °ut, as it
were. In November I again ploughed to
the usual depth and put in a potato and
maize crop—with good results. The next
year results were still better, and this year,
despite failure and disease in the potato
crops m many parts, my potatoes were good
and free from disease. What I did was to
? et rid ot the granite clay pan, and bring
it to the top with its potash, lime, etc. The
sun frosts and rain did the rest; and so mv
land was rejuvenated.
THE FARM TRACTOR,
to : 1 insist that “R-R.R.” (B.
10/7/29) is wrong in asserting that depre-
ciation should be 20 p.c. on a tractor. We sold
our two-ton Holt caterpillar tractor for £250
cash straight from the paddock after it
bad done seven years’ work. Its new owner
bas done 18 _ mouths’ work with it since
ion, and it is still good for several years
more, ihat experience—and it is a common
? ae 18 confirmation that my allowance of
~ Jbc. for depreciation is conservative and
that R-R.R* s 20 p.c. is far too high
Again, my allowance of 5i p.c. per annum
ror repairs is based on experience over a
period.
Our new two-ton Holt put in over 700
acres of crop recently, drawing a 16 combine
with ease in fairly heavy soil. By working
two 10-hour shifts a dav, the last 400 acres
were put in in a week. Right through we
nave found tractor-farming cheaper than
horses (which we sold), quite apart from the
tact that seeding, for instance, can be rushed
necessary. I cannot understand
i " requiring two men during seeding
and harvesting—one on the machine the
other driving the tractor. We use the exten-
sion steering and one man does the dual job
with less trouble than where horses are
employed.
Involute” (B. 17/7/’29) admits the popu-
larity of the caterpillar type in S.A. Possibly
the position of the wheel tractor in the
other States is due to salesmanship and
terms. I still maintain that the caterpillar
not only will work just as well wherever the
wheel tractor does, but also will work where
flic latter cannot venture. The crude-oil
machine # is another matter. So far the
trouble is to maintain the necessary effici-
ency of a high-efficiency engine on the farm
atter a few months. Once that efficiency is
lowered trouble commences.
OVER-MANURING
“Reminder”: There is such a thing, and
when applied to wheat it tends to produce
over-vigorous growth of leaf and stem. The
tissue thus formed is not hardy, and being,
moreover, wasteful of soil moisture, tends
to reduce yields. When the hot, dry weather
arrives, in an attempt at self-preservation
tiie plants of this character are forced to
reduce their surface, through which mois-
ture is given off. Hence the dead underleave”
and the withered tips of the remaining leaves.
Over-luxurious growth during the winter also
caus'es sunlight to be excluded from the base
of: the plants; hence weak stem tissues are
formed, and after the first windy day the
plants lodge, causing shrivelled grain and
unsatisfactory' harvesting.
WINTER FEED FOR STOCK.
“Hortus” : Animals thrive best on a ration
which contains green vegetable, and farmers
must exert themselves more to carry a supply
ot green feed into the winter months. It
not only assists in milk production, but
maintams animals in a healthy condition.
Sow maize at intervals so that it will
provide feed in the warmer districts until
about May. Plant in January a crop of
sorghum, choosing Amber Cane in the drier
districts, I lanter’s Friend in the coastal
areas. Amber Cane is very quick growing
and can be cut four months after sowing,
it will thus carry on the supply of green
teed after the maize has finished until the
‘a i :, u " e ; , Some win say that frost will
attack the Amber Cane also. Yes, but it is
n ° L . affected to nearly the same extent as
maize. Even when frost comes, though
growth ceases, the leaves and stems do not
lose their succulence, and its value as feed
is maintained for a month or more. In this
way under normal circumstances a farmer
will have a continuous supply of green feed
until his autumn-sown oats or other cereal
are available. Another good point about
these two _ varieties of sorghum is their
drought-resistant power. Where maize with
its short-rooted system will in a dry spell
become stunted and fail to recover, these sor-
ghums, which have vigorous roots, will lie
dormant until rain falls, when they will
recover marvellously. Also, sorghums are
such hardy growers that they will thrive on
land much too poor for maize. This for the
warmer districts.
In the colder areas, where green feed can-
not be grown continuously with success,
other plans must be adopted. The next best
thing to green feed is maize silage, properly
ifr overhead silos. Whoever can
afford one of the latter should erect it at
once. .there are hundreds, however, who
cannot stand the outlay. In that case,
procure, if possible, a chaffcutter. One
workable by a single horse will serve the
purpose Keep a paddock or two shut up
tor bush hay. Top-dress lightly with super,
and harrow Cut the whole of the plants of
the oat, wheat or barley crop, and stack
the straw near the bush hay. It saves time
to have the stacks near both the cliaft'-
house and the cow-shed. Grow a crop of
mangel-wurzel or field turnip, and pit them,
being careful to select a dry, elevated spot
tor the pit.. Chaff hay and straw together,
and mix this chaff with chopped-up mangel,
tins will give a winter feed which will not
only be nutritious and succulent, but give as
good a result as maize silage. And it is
cheap.
JERSEYS OR FRIESIANS?
‘‘ G ee”. : I cannot swallow the contention
that Fnesians are better dairy cattle than
Jerseys. Of 109 herds in the Government
test m Yic. this year 75 are Jerseys. Why?
Because 90 per cent, of Jerseys are a payable
proposition to milk; and this can be said for
no other breed. If one has any doubts about
this, let him set out with a mixed herd, and
begin testing and culling.
Champions of the Friesians tell us that if
onc Si y es 10 gallons a day, too poor to be
saleable, four gallons can be separated, and
the cream returned to the remaining six
gallons to standardise it—a nice proposition
to put up to a farmer! They also forget
that these wonders require milking three
times a day. For a man supplying a butter
factory it is just silly to sacrifice pounds’
worth of butter fat for a shilling’s worth
°: £ , And ’ an y how , Jersey beef is better
stuff than we have been told; at local sales
lately two 2-year-old Jersey steers made £8
per head; another, 21 years, £11; two others
rising 3 years, at Newmarket, £l3 per head.
The writer observed in Denmark 20 years
ago that the black and white cows prepon-
derated, but recent travellers tell us they
have been tossed out, and the Danes are
no fools at the business.
PHOSPHATE DEFICIENCY.
“Garrabarra”: A Service Department
answer on the Land page (B. 19/6/"29)
mentions rock-phosphate or bonemeal as a
means of supplying phosphates to sheep.
And m an article in the W. A. Agricul-
tural Journal on “Phosphate Deficiency
in Pastures” the writer mentioned rock-
phosphate or basic super, and lime in a
lick to counteract the deficiency.
Experiments go to show that the only
advantage gained by using ground rock-
pliospliate is the cheapness of the mineral.
In Africa it was found that rock-phosphates
used instead of bonemeal caused digestive
disturbances, ulceration of the intestines and
a withdrawal of calcium from the bones,
causing a softening which was detrimental to
the constitution. The same results were
obtained in U.S.A., where the unfavorable
results were traced to the fluorin present
in almost any rock-pliospliate.
Graziers in Central Queensland used
large quantities of Nauru phosphate in licks
for lambing ewes with apparently good re-
sults. How these sheep have fared since
lias never been mentioned. Corona (W.Q.)
used ground rock-pliospliate as a control
while drought-feeding with a mixture of corn
and bran. The total loss at the end of the
feeding period amounted, I believe, to only
6 p.c. But what losses were found when a
shearing muster was made after drought-
feeding had finished and the sheep had been
grazing as of yore have not been spoken
about. How the constitution of these sheep
will be affected can hardly be gauged in the
present generation.
I have known men who gave nothing but
coarse salt to wethers and only made an
addition for lambing ewes when the feed
was dry. This addition, about 201 b. of
Epsom to a bag of salt, seemed sufficient to
overcome impaction, and the lambs were
strong and full of life.
Where practicable the phosphate should
be applied to the pasture direct. The sup-
posed effect on the wool is not due to the
super., but to the greater growth of grass,
which in a fair season is apt to become
rank. Rut in a good season, with a rank
growth of grass, before ever super, was used
the wool was apt to be a little stronger. This
extra growth of grass can be counteracted
by extra stocking; and provided a top-
dressed paddock has had rain in a dry time,
while carrying up to double the number of
sheep it will produce softer and better wool.
QUEENSLAND ARTESIAN BORES.
“W.P.D.”: Since 1887, when the first bore
was commenced at Thurulgoona, near Cun-
namulla, 4497 others have been put down in
Queensland. Of these 1372 are still flowing,
supplies have to be pumped from 1883, and
the rest have been abandoned or are uncertain.
Ihe estimated daily yield of water from 1372
flowing bores is 309,498,703 gallons. A
decrease in the flow has been continuous,
although the rate of decrease varies in
different districts. For the past -10 years
the average annual shrinkage in t'he south-
west has been: West of Grey Range (two
bores), 1.32 p.c.; Bulloo watershed, .86 p.c.
/o^ e \y e b° res ) i Paroo watershed, 2.18 p.c.
bores) ; Warrego watershed, 3.35 p.c.
(o 5 bores) ; Nebine watershed, 5.12 p.c.
(seven bores) ; Maranoa-Condamine water-
ed, 1-89 p.c. (25 bores) ; Moonie water-
shed, 2.32 p.c. (six bores).
Attempts have been made to obtain larger
supplies by deepening bores in the Warrego
basin. That portion from Wyandra to
vAinnamiilla has been famous for its large
supplies at less than 2000 feet; but the
reservoir is falling, and the normal bores
have ost half their head in 15 years. The
old Gharleville bore was completed in 1889
to a depth of 1371 feet and gave 2,630,000
gallons a day and a pressure of 231 feet-
liead. This flow fell off to 240,000
gallons a day in 1922 and the pres-
sure to 21 feet. As the Government
bore at Augathella and a few private bores
showed the existence of lower beds with
higher pressure, a new bore was sunk at
Charleville and a daily flow of 1,012 070
gallons was obtained at 2590 feet with a
pressure of 158 feet. The new bore at
nearly double the depth did not yield half
as much as the old bore. Prospects of a
greater supply by deepening are fair north
of Wyandra; south of Wyandra thev are
poor. J
When the first bores were put down in the
north, practically all the district from Win-
ton to the Cloncurry railway was a flowing
area, Since then the hydraulic surface has
gradually lowered, and there is now a non-
flowing area, following approximately the
ake Eyre watersheds from 'below
MidcUeton through Kynuna to Ilughenden.
Although pel tain basins, such as the lower
lying, portions of the Bulloo, Maranoa, Dia-
mantina and I linders Rivers, will have good
supplies for many years to come, in all
other districts a diminished flow is to be
expected. Some hitherto flowing areas, such
as Kynuna, have gone—apparently for all
time.
In. the south-western area the alkaline
artesian water does not injure the easin^:
but north of the. Flinders casings are com-
pletely corroded in a few years by carbonic
acid gas in the water. Fortunately in parts
the upper . strata are flaggy limestones,
which remain intact for a considerable depth
after removal of the casing. So at Millun-
gera and Bunda Bunda bores still discharge
their normal flow of over a million gallons
daily although the casings have long since
disappeared. Usually, however, the flow
recedes to a small fraction. It is not now
payable to sink to the deep water in these
areas, notwithstanding the greater supply, on
tV-count of the short life of the casing. Yet
the 1* hnders area is one of the best in the
State; therefore it is important to solve
tiie question of corrosion there. Rustless
steel can do the job, but it is too dear.
THE LIVER-FLUKE.
“Jace’ : The life cycle of this beast has
been described oh this page; but the follow-
ing figures may suggest to stock-breeders the
necessity for persisting until the thing is
n °t °»ly beaten but absolutely stamped out.
the adult fluke is brown, oblong and
to fin. long. It lives in the liver and bile-
ducts of the sheep and causes “liver-rot.”
Each adult may lay up to 50,000 eggs, which
pass down the bile-ducts, through the intes-
tine, and out on to the pastures in the
droppings.
From the egg emerges a free swimming
“ lr Y a > ® n d unless water is present it dies.
Swimming about in the water, it must now
nnd a certain type of water-snail, into which
it bores. Here it develops into a sporocyst,
which gives rise to another form called the
redia; one sporocyst yielding five to eight
rediai. Each redia, in turn, develops Bto 12
cercarise, which later bore out of the snail.
These cercarise swim about in the water,
attach themselves to a blade of grass and pass
into the sheep’s digestive system again when
the grass is eaten. After six weeks in the
liver, they develop into adult flukes, thus
completing their life cycle.
In controlling the fluke, we endeavor to
break the, cycle; for we know that the free
swimming larva cannot live without water;
the sporocyst and redia cannot develop with-
out the water-snail; nor can the cercaria
find its way into the sheep’s liver if the
grass is not eaten.
At least three methods of control should
therefore be practised: (1) A marshy area
should be fenced. (2) It should also be
treated with bluestone (copper sulphate) to
destroy the snail. (3) Drenching.
FEEDING SHEEP.
“J.D.G.”: While so many sheep are being
fed this may be helpful. The cheapest and
most quickly erected feeder can be made by
putting in a single line of substantial fenc-
ing posts 12ft. apart. Bore a hole as near the
extreme edge as you can get on each side
of the post; these holes should be both 14in.
from the ground. Thread fencing-wire
through these holes and through the edges
of four manure bags, thus making a trough
between each post. Strain the wires and
sew the ends of the bags together. Two
more holes should be bored and wires
strained Sin. and 16in. above the trough, to
prevent sheep from jumping over.
A NEW STOCK FOOD.
“Hamilton”: Meat-meal made from the
entrails of animals (chiefly bullocks and
sheep) has been extensively experimented
with at Lincoln College (M.L.). The entrails
are ground into powder after being dried.
They are most valuable for their flesh-form-
ing qualities. Half a pound of the meal
daily, fed with other foods to pigs, has
yielded the best results. The “other foods”
include' mangolds and whey—it increases the
value of the latter 50 per cent.
Using this meal Lincoln College has experi-
mented with 1800 pigs in three years on
farms as well as at the college. . It has
proved a 40 per cent, increase of meat pro-
duction when the meal has been given with
chaff or hay to cattle in summer while grass
food is scarce. After a course of meat-meal
sheep have come in in the pink of condition;
and with loz. of meal daily with whey, start-
ing at a week old and gradually increased
to 6oz. at eight weeks, calves show tremend-
ous growth.
The meal is manufactured at the meat
works and is sold at £23 per ton. Formerly
it went into blood and bone manure.
SELECTING THE POULTRY BREED.
“Bufforp”: There are three breeds that
are worth while, Leghorn, black orpington
and Langshan. With the egg production
over the requirements of local consumption,
a breed must be chosen that will ensure the
maximum profit from eggs and from bird
when the profitable egg-producing years are
past, and after gruelling tests these breeds
have been chosen as leaders.
The Leghorn is the best layer in the spring
and summer months, also in the autumn and
winter of its first or pullet year; but from
then on it must be, looked to for heavy yield
only in spring and summer. The black orp.
and the Lang., now found on most farms,
must not be confused with the old style:
they are modern creations bred from the
old English stock (with Chinese blood in
the latter) till both breeds are known as
Australian. Both are now tight-feathered
utility birds, bred for eggs and carcase, en-
tirely eliminating the fluffiness favored by
show fanciers. Beth are consistent layers
and are much better in autumn and winter
than the Leghorn. The bad feature of
(Continued on page 25.)


w
n
mk
HS-
+ GF+
M
1
r
*
Look far the Trade-mark. ~i~GF ~i~ on every Fitting
ŵ
I
Bends, Bushes, Crosses,
Elbows, Flanges, Nipples,
Plugs, Tees, etc.
ẁ
_|_ GF -|— MALLEABLE FITTINGS are manufactured from the best English
Iron, treated and annealed by exclusive —|— GF —|— methods. They are made
in one grade only, suitable for Steam, Water, Gas, Oil or Air Services. They
are non-porous, are beaded to give maximum strength and to prevent stretching,
and are entirely free from sandholes and blowholes.
GF —[— MALLEABLE FITTINGS are minutely examined at the works, and
each fitting is absolutely immune from casting defects, this being ensured by an
individual test of 3001 b. per square inch on each and every fitting sent out
■ \
Prominent among users of -[- GF -|- Malleable Fittings are:—
The N.S.W. Government Railways.
Norco, Ltd.
The Colonial Gas Association.
All Government Departments.
The Vacuum Oil Co., Pty., Ltd.
The Shell Co., Ltd.
Australian Gas Light Co.
Most of the largest contracts.
NOTE THESE POINTS
i
This
illustration
shows the
malleability
of
+ GF +.
Fittings
—and this
shows the per-
fect fit which
they make.
ẅ
SOLE AGENTS:
WILLIAM ADAMS <fCOMPAN/
LI M ITT" S
SYDNEY 175 Clarence Street MELBOURNE.. 521-523 Collins Street
BRISBANE.. 93 Albert Street ADELAIDE 157 Waymouth Street
PERTH 432-36 Murray Street NEWCASTLE.. 17 Bolton Street


I
Ui
. A. .
m
■i : :
Itunnmg
'Water
for
Country
Homes
Delco-Lif£ht
Water Systems
IN its importance to life, water is second only
to air; without it existence is impossible,
and where it is scarce or impure—there
disease finds its chief ally.
The Delco-Light pressure water system has been
designed for the service of dwellers beyond the
reach of communal water supplies. Wherever
current is available, it provides an abundance
of refreshing, cool water at the turn of a tap—
always available—always direct from the source
of supply and at a pressure equal to any city
service.
A modern bathroom and sanitary system are
made possible and the drudgery of washing day
disappears. Away from
the house, the same
Delco-Light water sys-
tem supplies you with
water for stock, for the
dairy, the garden
and the garage.
It is easily in-
stalled, occupies
very little space,
is inexpensive to
purchase and to
run, and, best of
all, requires prac-
tically no atten-
tion.
v o» <
a
Ktsumv
(Water Systems
w
a 4 a 4 ’
5 *.
‘ ■ ■• ' ■■■■ ■
S*
*& V .
ŵ
Itr,
■
mm
Also ask about other
Winchester Flashlights
serviceable, durable,
dependable and adap-
ted to every use.
Light Wherever You
Turn Your Eyes
COMFORTABLY fastened to your hat or
forehead by a wide web elastic band,
this unique Winchester Flashlight turns
with your head, tilts at any desired angle
and throws its light wherever you turn
your head. Current is supplied through a
flexible cord connecting with a standard
Winchester Flashlight Battery in a special
case that slips into your pocket or clips to
your belt, thus leaving yoQ both hands
free. An ideal light for fanners, mechan-
ics, doctors, dentists, bandsmen, motorists,
sportsmen and all others who need light
while using both their hands.
WINCHESTER REPEATING
ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A.. 19
TVWCfftSTm
TRADE MARK
HEADLIGHT


ẁ
No “aches” in this
pliant shoe!
Soft and restful, this Abbey
Shoe has an upper of pliant
calf—without any toe-cap. Its
whole design is planned for
comfort. Strain is eliminated
by the special curve of the lac-
ing over the instep. And there s
no stiffness in the upper, except
where blocked at heel and toe.
Ease and lightness are enhanced
still further by the low-cut,
close-fitting sides. Altogether,
this shoe guarantees the com-
fort of the tenderest foot.
Three widths per size.
ORDER BY POST. Both full and
half-sizes available each in narrow,
medium or wide fitting. Specify
width and length. Ask also for
the correct Abbey preservative
polish (6d. per tin).
Tan Willow Calf . . 39/6
Black Box Calf . . 37/6
Enlarged catalogue of men’s and women’s
footwear post free.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years.
313 George Street, and 224 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
FPLI3S.
Martin Ditcher
Hundreds of Australian
pastoralists and farmers are
using the Martin Ditcher for
a score of purposes. It is
the most useful farm imple-
ment ever devised, quickly
saving the cost, £35, in
speed, efficiency and wages.
?_
r a*
J. B. WALLIS, LTD.,
Challis House, Martin Place,
Sydney
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
168 Edward Street, Brisbane
T. T. B’ld’g, Light Square, Adelaide
Padbury Building, Forrest Place, Perth
BJv.
ẃ
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY..
Send To Sydney
4
If you want
yo u r money s
worth, buy
from the firm
which sells over
two thousand a
year with satisfaction to all.
Here’s the Wonder
Saddle of Australia.
THE BONSER
STATION POLEY.
A high-class saddle made on
a steel barplated tree, of
kip leather. Narrow waist,
long flaps, leather panel
points. Perfect fit and style.
Complete with 4 bar-stirrups,
leathers, ring surcingle, folded girth.
Only £7/10/- Sw!‘
What a Bargain! January only.
JOHN BRUSH,
THE SADDLE SPECIALIST,
371 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
434 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
ẅ
BIRKMYRE'S CLOTH
liegd. Trade-mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hessians, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
THE
GOUROCR
ROi'EWOKk
EXPORT CO.
LTD.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic.
BED
DONALDS WOOLPRESSES
The easiest-worked and most popular Woolpress at present available.
Has a world-wide demand. The No. 2 Press, shown here, is specially
designed for medium and small sheds, where economy of space and con-
venience in working are essential. Not anchored to floor or ceiling in
any way. Loose back recently incorporated. Send for free catalogue.
STRENGTH, QUALITY AND SATISFACTION
GUARANTEED
No. 2 Press, £24; No. 1, £33; Hoist, £3 extra.
Procurable from all Merchants, Or
DONALD PATENTS LTD.,
GLENMORE ROAD, PADDINGTON, SYDNEY.
Makers of the famous Donalds Wire Strainers, Lifting
Jacks, Skewers, etc.
broodiness has been greatly reduced. The
eggs of both are highly suitable for export
and storage. Tin
The Leghorn hen finds a ready sale all
the year, being of medium body and the
best keeper in cold storage. But the heavies
nearly always command from 2s. to os. pci
pair more. In cockerels the whites at an
early stage are very cheap, but at roasting
stage are profitable. In the heavy breeds
they can be marketed from the gnller stage
(about 21b.) to full grown. The orp. makes
the better table bird of the two, the Lang,
being inclined to be lanky in between the
griller stage and the full grown. Ihe whites
can stand hot, dry areas; the orpingtons like
a moderate climate, while the Langs., being
very adaptable, will thrive in many cold
districts profitably. .
For the commercial venture it is best to
breed two of the varieties, of which the Leg-
horns should, if possible, be one. The heavies
are quieter and will do better in close quar-
ters ; the Leghorns like freedom and space.
TOBACCO-CLASSING.
“Lemon Bright”: Tobacco-classing is now
in full swing, and, as most of us know,
proper grading means a lot. I have just
seen a small crop, nicely baled, etc.,, with an
average of good leaf, but so blindly graded
that the grower robbed himself of about £4O
on his 30cwt. of cured leaf. He had the
option of reclassing it, but, of course, that
was out of the question. The main trouble
is the practice of putting a leaf or two into
second grade (light mahogany) that you
think is a bit too good for third grade.
When the buyer inspects, those few leaves
are going to pull down the price per pound or,
the whole of your second grade. If you had
put those few doubtful leaves into your
dark mahogany, not only would they have
brightened up 'the latter, but it would have
allowed your second grade to stand inspec-
tion.
If you have any leaf 100 green to market,
hang it up in the shed, but don’t tie it into
“hands,” or the outside leaves will turn
color and the inside ones will remain green.
Tie 40 to 50 leaves on a stick —in the same
way as you would prepare the uncurcd leaf
for curing. Each time the once-green leaf
moistens and dries it. will turn a shade
darker. Watch it, and don’t let it get too
dark.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department .)
I am losing my turkeys; apparently
healthy birds suddenly become motley and
sit about, with feathers fluffed out as if
cohl. Neck , gills, etc., become blackish. Post-
mortem showed livers discolored, with
blotches about the size of a threepenny-bit
all over them. Evacuations arc thin, yellow-
ish. Disease? Remedy? —llB7.
The turkeys arc suffering from entero-
hepatitis (blackhead). Affected birds should
be given ten drops twice daily of ipecacuanha
wine until recovery. The wine can also be
used as a preventive by giving a dessert-
spoonful in each quart of drinking water once
a week, from the time the young poults are
a week old till they “shoot the red.”
A good lick for sheep that have creek
water only to drink. I am using sulphate
of iron, sulphur and Stockholm tar with salt;
what proportions of each of these and Nauru
phosphate should I use to one bag of salt ? -
11.55. . ~
The following proportions are suitable:
Weight of salt, 1601 b.; Nauru phosphate,
3001 b.; sulphate of iron, 61b.; sulphur, 201 b.;
Stockholm tar, 41b. Molasses may be added
to moisten the lick and make it more appe-
tising, and also to assist to fix the in-
gredients in the salt. When the grass is
dry add 51b. Epsom salts to every 1001 b. of
the lick. Maize, linseed or peanut meal may
be added on the surface to get the sheep to
take to it. If it is desired to use potassium
iodide add per cwt. of the mixed lick.
(1) During which winters of the past 11
years has the Antarctic ice floated several
hundred miles further north than usual?
(2) If it brings severe cold weather to the
backblocks of N.S.W., as in this present
season, are we optimists to be still hoping
for the wet winter promised by Douglas
Mawson ?— 1391.
(1) No data. (2) The views of Douglas
Mawson regarding the proximity of ice floes
to the Australian coast having an important
bearing on winter weather are not shared by
N.S.W. Government Meteorologist Mares.
Usually, dry winters are synonymous with
more than ordinary cold, but there have been
occasions in the past when extremely cold
conditions were followed by good rains.
(1) What species are the hairy cater-
pillars that infest myall trees? How are
they hatched, and are they dangerous to
touch? (2) Do they defoliate the trees?
(3) If harmful, how can they be eradicated?
—1426.
(1) The boree or bag-shelter moth Teara
contraria in the larval stage. They feed upon
the foliage of gum-trees and wattles, and are
particularly fond of the boree or weeping
myall ( Acacia pendula). The adult moth is
about two inches across the outspread wings
and brownish in color. The eggs are laid
in buff-colored f elted masses on the trees,
and the caterpillars on hatching form bags
or shelters by drawing the leaves together
with silken strands; in these bags they hide
during the day and feed at night. When
full-gi'own, the caterpillars crawl down to
pupate in the soil beneath the tree. Their
spines cause a rash and considerable irrita-
tion if allowed to come in contact with the
skin. (2) Yes, and often when the foliage
of this valuable tree is required as a staudby
for stock. (3) Spraying the trees with
arsenate of lead (lib. to 40 gallons) with a
power pump and spray gun would kill the
caterpillars, but the infestation is usually
so extensive as to render this method largely
impracticable. Some pastoralists undertake
the cutting-off and destruction of the bugs
before the trees are defoliaged. This could
best be done with a cutter at the end of a
light pole, such as is used by gardeners.
How to treat fruit-fly on peaches and
apples? —l374.
Systematically boil or burn all fallen and
infested fruit —a method of control prescribed
by regulation under the N.S.W. Plant Dis-
eases Act. Burying of fruit is also allowed,
but the fruit must be covered with soil to
a depth of not less than ISin. This spray is le-
commended —One gallon fruit juice 01 syrup,.
41b. molasses, Boz. arsenate ot lead paste 01
soz. of arsenate of lead powder, o galioi
water. If citrus trees are to be sprayed, one
gallon citrus juice (about 80 to 100 inferior
oranges will suit the purpose) can be usea,
if stone fruits, a strong syrup should b
made by boiling, say, from 41b. to 61b. ot
inferior peaches in one gallon of water unt
they become pulpy. The liquid is then
strained off and made up to one gallon to
replace the water lost by evaporation dining
the boiling. The spray is usually applied
to the foliage, at the rate of Soz. per tree,
by some suitable spraying apparatus or
syringe. Don’t spray the whole tree, but
apply the mixture in two patches, one on
either side of the tree, care being taken,
especially with peaches, to avoid the truit.
The first application should be given about
five weeks before the fruit is harvested, and
repeated at intervals of seven days, five
applications thus being given m all. it
rain occurs after the spray has been applied,
a fresh application will have to be made.
Further remedies will be found in Insect
Pests Leaflet, No. II (“Fruit Flies”), issued
free by N.S.W. Dept, of Agriculture.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“R.J.” : The safest method to rear chicks
is to keep them always hungry. Only give
them as much as they will clean up; tins
teaches them to scratch for more food among
litter. Overfeeding causes more losses in the
brooders than anything else.
“R.A.”: For warts on cattle, searing,
caustic potash and such-like leave a perma-
nent scar. The best remedy is a 15 p.c.
solution of carbolic acid. Two or three appli-
cations will remove the worst growth.
“E.W.” : Although the main crop of onions
is generally put out in June and July,, it
is possible to get a heavy crop by spring
planting. Trench the ground deep; add
decayed leaves, then lime the ground well.
A week later dig it over again, and mix into
the soil a heavy dressing of stable manure.
After a week’s interval turn again, this time
digging in a light dusting of blood-and-bone.
Give plenty of water by irrigation methods
until the bulbs begin to harden oil. Onions
grown by this forcing method must be thor-
oughly dried before being gathered, and kept
in a warm shed for a while.
“Hornby”: Fatten the “tough” cow and
get rid of her to the butcher. Milking hands
will not milk out of their turn, and so
on a dairy farm the tough cow causes “sit-
ting”—lingering over their animals by the
rest, while the one who has the “toughy” in
the bail finishes her and takes his right turn.
One farmer I know reckons he saved the
price of three good cows in a year by selling
at a loss a tough one he’d had the bad luck
to. get hold of.
“Curlew” r A pair of Gin. pliers I find
almost as useful as a hammer. They are
of best steel, can be used as' a wire key in
fencing; to pull wire, and especially barb
wire; have two cutters for small wires
and one between the jaws that I can cut No.
8 wire with, though certainly there is a
knack in that. For tying on netting or
securing wires in any manner, I know no-
thing to equal these pliers. One end was
made to be used as a screwdriver, but I filed
both ends stubby and found the tool better to
handle.
“Irad”: Almost any kind of green food
in abundance —lucerne, maize, sorghums and
even grass—will cause butter taint if the
cows are milked immediately they are brought
in for the pastures. By yarding or putting
their cows into a paddock practically void
of feed for at least an hour before milking,
this tainting of milk and butter is wholly
eliminated. Nothing will give milk or butter
an unpleasant flavor more than lucerne or
dandelion weed, but where the above practice
is resorted to this trouble is overcome.
“R.A.” : To protect cream from blowflies
double a piece of gauze (netting will do)
and mark it a'little larger than the milk-
dish. Then sew round the outer edge, and
again about half an inch closer in. Then
thread an elastic to fit the dish tightly.. Flies
cannot crawl under the cover, and it will
not sag into the cream. If the ends are
safety-pinned the elastic can be taken out
quite easily to permit of the cover being
boiled, and the same elastic can be used for
a clean cover.
“Wakatu” : A lecturer at Massey College,
Maoriland’s new agricultural school, intro-
duced his students to a new farming term.
He told them that while travelling in the
TJ.S.A: he asked a farmer his opinion of his
wheat crop. “Well, it’s a ‘flapper’ crop,”
replied the farmer. “It looks pretty but
hasn’t much on.”
“Drover”: Queensland is to deal with
Alsatian dogs and an Act will probably be
passed prohibiting importation. Sheepmen
are alarmed about the possibility of an
Alsatian-dingo cross. Both seemingly kill
for sport only, and the intelligence of the
Alsatian added to the slyness of the dingo
might mean wholesale slaughter not only
of sheep but of young cattle.
“Mulgo”: Horsey can still keep his tai
up. At a sale at Maitland (N.S.W.) the
other day 250 were yarded, about half being
draughts, which sold up to £29 10s. Other
heavy horses fetched £l7 to £26; farming
sorts to £2O: light horses, £11; aged lots
from £5. The prices compare quite w r ell
with those of 30 years ago ; though I’m not
forgetting that the pound won’t buy the
horse-breeder what it used to.
“Bad Australian” : A movement is on foot
in S.A. to erect a memorial to the man who
first demonstrated the possibility of growing
a crop on, mallee land without grubbing the
stumps. Just over half a century ago a
settler named Mullen, being struck with the
apparent fertility of the soil, cleared a patch
of malice-scrub by cutting it off at ground
level. After the burn he took a heavy V-
sliaped log, drove a number of long iron
spikes through it, hitched his team to the
pointed end and dragged it over the land,
which he sow r ed with wheat. The wdieat did
w r ell and was as easily harvested as on
thoroughly-cleared land. Following Mullen’s
primitive but quite effective implement came
the stump-jump plough and the mallee roller,
w-hicli have been the 1 main factors in con-
verting the mallee from a. howling wilder-
ness to a prosperous province ; but Mullen
was the pioneer;


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Literary man requires quiet room, table for writing,
with or without board. Moderate terms, Sydney
or suburbs.—l 467.
Law student (23) would like position with Mel-
bourne solicitor, full or part time; common law
preferred.—l 477.
Central Q’land youth would like to , hear from
grazier, same district, contemplating overland trip
to Sydney next summer; relief driver, can do running
repairs.—1460.
Young man, temperate, experience sheep and cattle
stations, qualified accountant, wants position as
station book- and store-keeper. Q’land preferred, but
go anywhere. Refs.—l3B4.
Grocer (25), single, experienced bookkeeper,
window-dresser, used managing stores, post offices,
wants employment, go anywhere.—l4o7.
Youth (18), N.S.W., two years wheat farm, wants
job on dairy or other farm with Presbyterian family.
—l4lB.
Young man (25), S.A., ex-ship’s apprentice, wants
job coasting vessel, trader Islands, or anything.
—1413.
By young N.Z. lady residing Islands, corres-
pondents interested journalism, pictorial art, Con-
tinental travel. —1432.
To buy early editions of Kipling and Conrad.
—1422.
To buy secondhand copy “How to Write Verse,”
by G. Northcott.—l464.
To buy, Bairnsfather’s “Fragments from France.”
Complete vol. —1485.
To buy, copy of “Fauns and Ladies,” by Jack
Lindsay.—l4B7.
To buy “The Dreadnaught of the Darling,” by
C. E. W. Bean (illustrated edition preferred.)—l469.
Whereabouts of Hubert Windred, late 12th Batt.,
A.T.F., last heard of at Carpathia mine, Ardlethan,
N.S.W. (To S. Coltheart, Tent Hill, via Deep-
water, N.S.W.)
Italian words of “Che Gelida manina,” Rudolf’s
song in “La Boheme.” —1452.
Words of “My Brother Ben and I.” (To Herbert
Harm, Post Office, Longreach, Q’land.)
Information Sought.
(1) Is an assurance policy on my life,
payable at death, taken out and held by my
wife, taxable in Queensland at my death?
My wife pays the premiums out of her domes-
tic allowance. (2) Is an assurance policy
on my life, held by me, but assigned to my
wife, taxable at my death? —1065.
(1) The proceeds are not liable to suc-
cession or probate duty if the wife can show
that she lias paid the premiums herself (Sec.
19. Life Insurance Act (Q.). (2) If the
assignment was made two years before the
husband’s death, no; should, however, the
husband die within two years of the assign-
ment. it would be liable to gift duty.
Whether these policies will be paid to your
wife depends upon the insurance office. It
will certainly want to be sure. You might
find out in advance. (3) and (4) See Brief
Answers.
Is Hie importation of angora and chin-
chilla rabbits for fur-breeding purposes per-
mittedf—l29s.
During last month a conference of Minis-
ters of Agriculture of all the States passed
a resolution in favor of fur-farming. The
matter has not yet been considered by the
Federal Cabinet. Till that is done and the
present embargo lifted, it is not permitted
to import either variety into Australia.
What is the award ivagc for a groom
employed in a N.S.W. country hotel? Holi-
day rates, hours to be worked and notice
required by both parties in the event of
termination of service? —1201.
For a groom 21 and over £4 Ss. p.w., sub-
ject to tlie deduction of 6s. where suitable
sleeping accommodation is provided, and to a
further deduction of 17s. 9d. where board is
supplied. The ordinary working week is 44
hours, to be worked in six days and within a
margin of 13 hours per day. Work performed
on public holidays is to be paid for at the rate
of double time. Forty-eight hours’ notice
of termination of service must be given by
employer or employee.
How to kill white ants present in a heap
of sawdust? —3lB.
Treat sawdust with a solution of arsenic
and caustic soda made up at the rate of 51b.
arsenic and 11b. caustic soda to 4 gallons
water. No need to boil the mixture.
My holding adjoins the catchment area
( about 7000 acres) of the town water
supply; the boundary is unfcnccd. Can the
municipal council impound my stock or
prosecute me for allowing them to trespass
on this unfenced land? —1400.
There is some doubt as to your legal
position. The N.S.W. Local Government
Act, 1919 (Sec. 401), provides for the pro-
clamation of any lands as the catchment
district in connection with any water supply
under the control of a council and also for
the passing of ordinances regulating or pre-
venting the keeping of diseased animals or
pigs on such area, but does not specifically
exclude healthy stock. But Sec. 426 pro-
vides that any animal found in any munici-
pality trespassing upon any land under the
control of a council may be impounded. It
would be wise to consult a solicitor, who will
have to be informed of all the local cir-
cumstances.
I notice from the weather reports that the
sun rises at 7 a.m. for several days after
June 22. Why doesn’t it rise earlier imme-
diately after the shortest dayf, —l27l.
The sun’s apparent movement at the sol-
stices is very slow; after June 22 the
northern declination has decreased only one
degree by July 9. This decrease in northerly
declination tends to make the sun rise earlier,
in our latitude, by nearly three minutes for
each degree of change. But there is another
factor. For purpose of time we use not
the true sun, but a fictitious sun, known
astronomically as the “mean sun.” This
‘’‘mean” sun is always on the meridian of
the place at mean-noon. The true sun is
only on the meridian at mean noon on four
occasions during t\f, year—about April 15,
June 14, September • 1 and December 25;
on all other occasions it reaches the meridian
before or after 12 o’clock. This variation
is known as the “equation of time.” The
equation of time on June 22 is nearly, two
minutes, and on July 9 nearly five
minutes; the' difference of three minutes
just counterbalances the change of declina-
tion. H'ence, for the period June 22 to
July 9 the sun rises at practically the same
time each morning. But the days are length-
ening, the sun setting six minutes later
over this period.
I want to matte 25 reinforced concrete
house-blocks, 7 ft. long by Sin. square. Quan-
tities of cement, sand and stone necessary,
most suitable mixture to use, and best method
of reinforcing f —:Bs9.
Twenty bags of cement, 11 cubic yards of
sand, and 2| cubic yards of stone. This
represents a 1-2-3 mix. The reinforcing bars
should run the full length of the block, and
should be from Jin. to win. in thickness. A
bar should be placed along each corner and
at least lin. inside the block. Bars should
be laced at intervals with stout wire. Aus.
Cement Manufacturers’ Assoc., 14 Spring-
street, Sydney, will, if requested, supply
pamphlet on the subject.
Where is Macquarie Island? Who dis-
covered it, and, what industries, if any, does
it support? —l4lo.
One of a group in the South Pacific, lat.
54 south, long. 159 east, about 600 miles
south-west of Maoriland ; discovered in 1811
by seal-fishers from N.S.W. The island is
IS miles long by five miles broad; it is low-
lying and destitute of timber. For many
years the group was worked as a birding
and sealing ground under Maoriland juris-
diction ; in recent years licenses have been
granted by Tasmania.
(1) I have written a one-act comedy with
nine characters; any chance of its being pro-
duced, presuming it is stageworthy? To
whom should I apply, and what might be the
terms? (2) Anything being done with re-
gard to production of talkies in Australia?
Would it be worth while submitting MU. to
those, concerned? —l4BB.
(1) No harm in trying your local Reper-
tory Society or the Playbox and Turret
Theatres, Sydney. Commercial manage-
ments don’t produce one-act plays, and It
would be a waste of time approaching them.
Amateur bodies have been known to pay
small fees for performing rights in one-act
plays, but as a rule the honor and glory of
production is the dramatist’s only reward.
(2) Know of no company contemplating pro-
duction of talkies here.
(1) A t a race meeting held in Fiji under
A.J.O. rules, the scales toere a combination
of platform and counter scales. A jockey
weighed out, and in so doing placed his
saddlecloth and blanket in the “scoop” por-
tion of the scales while standing on the plat-
form, He was accepted as having weighed
out correctly. His horse was first past the
post. At weighing-in he held, saddlecloth and
rug under his arm, and was ~lb. under
weight; when saddlecloth, and, blanket, were
placed in the “scoop” he weighed the same
as at weighing-out, Tt- is' admitted that it,
is incorrect to weigh by standing on the plat-
form and placing articles in the scoop, and
that the clerk of scales was therefore in
error; it is also agreed that there, was not
a shadow of dishonest intent. The stewards
disqualified the jockey’s horse and awarded
the race to the second horse. TT 7 as their
decision correct? (2) Could they have de-
clared it “no race”?. —1378.
(1) The stewards’ decision was correct.
A.J.C. rule 139 is mandatory and provides
that if a jockey is short of weight his horse
must be disqualified for the race. The re-
sponsibility of weighing out and in correctly
rests with the rider; a mistake on the part
of an official would not affect the question.
(2) There is no provision in A.J.C. rules for
a race to be declared “no race” in such
circumstances.
What is ambergris like? Where can it
be marketed? —1203.
Ambergris varies from a soft, black, pitch-
like substance with a strong, musty odor,
through stages of dark and light brown, to
grey and almost white; the last is of the
best quality. All ambergris possesses this
musty odor, and all varieties are soft enough
to retain the impression of the finger-hail.
The harder brown to white specimens, when
broken or cut with a knife, exhibit a more
or less mottled appearance, showing small
white spots. In some cases, also, the material
is seen to be built up of layers of laminae.
A piece of ambergris immediately becomes
liquid when placed in boiling water, the
liquid floating. When penetrated with a
wire or needle which has been heated in a
flame a black liquid is formed round the
puncture, which during cooling becomes sticky
or tacky” like soft pitch. Ambergris indeed
more closely resembles a plastic, pitch-like
substance than a hard wax or fat. Finds
vary from, large pieces weighing lewt.
to small pieces a fraction of an ounce in
weight, but the former are very rare. Beach
sand adheres to some specimens, but when
this is removed the characteristic properties
of amb rgris are apparent. Sydney Tech-
nological Museum is always pleased to report
on the genuineness or otherwise of materials
thought to be ambergris, and to place finders
of genuine material in touch with buyers
No charge is made.
(1) Ruling prices for crude platinum and
osmiridium? (2) Latest London and New
York quotations. (3) Is it the tendency for
prices to rise or fall? (4) Does any Aus-
tralian paper regularly print quotations for
these metals? —l233.
(1) The price of crude platinum depends
upon its assay contents and the market price
of the refined metal; the price of osmiridium
associated with crude platinum depends upon
the quality of the osmiridium. (2) Refined
platinum. London, £l3 17s. 6d. per oz.; New
York, $OB per oz. (3) Nobody can say;'
it depends on supply (which is very irregu-
lar) and demand. (4) No.
(1) Will I need a permit to leave Aus-
tralia for New Guinea? (2) Must I obtain
permission before being allowed to proceed
to the goldfields? (3) Names of N.G. mining
cos. to whom I could write for information
as to prospects of employment? (4) Must
] produce a clearance from the taxation
authorities before fearing? (5) What Gov-
ernment department in N.G. controls mining
matters? (0) Any Sydney representative’:
—llOO.
(1) and (2) Yes. Permits to leave Aus-
tralia are issued to Kabaul only; persons
desirous of proceeding to the goldfields must
get permission from Administrator on
arrival. Information regarding issue of per
mits may be had from Collector of Customs
in each capital city. (3) Placer Develop-
ment, Ltd., Wingello House, Angel-place, *
Sydney; Guinea Gold Co., Wool Exchange,
Brookmans Buildings, Adelaide; Ellyou
Goldfields Development Corporation, The
Wau, New Guinea. (4) Yes. (5) Depart
ment of Lands, Surveys, Mines and Forests,
Rabaul. (6) No, but the New Guinea
Trade Agent, 114 a Pitt-strect, may be able,
to help.
(1) Is there a Yorlce river in the Kalgoor-
iie district? (2) Was it ever the custom
to use pack mules for transport of gold
there? (3) Did the miners transport their
gold themselves, or did they sell it to a
commissioner? (4) Any irrigation settle-
ments in those parts? (5) Any goldfields
or settlements near Kalgoorlie? (0) Is the
country timbered? Any hills or ravines? —
135)9.
(1) No. (2) Never heard of any being
used. (3) Generally, the gold was bought by
a bank, leaseholders and dry blowers fetch-
ing it per horse or Shanks’s pony. There
were banks at Kalgoorlie very early in its
history. (4) No. (5) Yes; Bulong, Broad
Arrow, Menzies and a score of other places.
Gold-mining has fallen off thereabouts, but
there is a big pastoral industry in the
making. (6) There used to be ‘plenty of
salmon gum, gimlet and other timber,' but
a good deal of it has been cut for mine fuel.
Not many hills and none of great height; no
ravines.
What is the usual procedure when open-
ing a ■ bridge club, and what fees are charged?
—1397.
Intending members are called together;
they appoint a president, hon. sec. and
treasurer and house committee. Fees must
depend upon probable number of members,
but with 50 or more likely a subscription
of £2 2s. (payable in advance) is reason-
able. Table money (6d. or Is. per sitting)
will meet cost of room, tables, etc.
How to grow camphor laurel trees? —l327.
Camphor laurels are grown from black
seeds about the size of peas, which drop to
the ground during autumn. These should be
sown at once thinly in a shallow box or pan
and planted out when six inches high.
(1) How much cement and sand will it
take to cement the bottom of a galvanised
tank 55ft. in circumference? (2) How
many 4gal. petrol-tins full of sand does it
take to make a cubic yard? —Blo.
(1) Approximately 1} cubic yards of
sand and 17 bags of cement. (2) One
petrol-tin holds 0.64 cubic feet, consequently
42} petrol-tins full of sand will yield one
cubic yard.
Must horse-breakers be insured under the
Q’land Workers’ Compensation Act? If so,
what is the rate? —-1167.
Provided they come within the definition
of “worker,” yes; SO shillings per cent, (no
racing risk). A “worker” is “any person
whose remuneration does not exceed £520 a
year who has entered into a contract of
service with an employer, whether the con-
tract is expressed or implied, or is oral
or in writing.”
(1) Could the roots of a giant pepper-tree
penetrate an underground cement tank? (2)
Best method of destroying the tree? —1286.
(1) Roots might possibly find an entrance
at a weak point or crack in either brickwork
or cement—not otherwise. (2) Make cuts
with an axe into the bark round the base
of the tree, turning the cut portions out-
wards to form a frill or saucer. Into this
pour a solution made by dissolving one pound
arsenite of soda in three gallons of water.
Particulars of awards of merit offered by
the Commonwealth Government for moving-
picture films and scenarios? —lo92.
For the best films produced in Australia:
£5OOO, first; £2500, second; £l5OO, third.
For the best scenai’io not hitherto produced,
written in Australia by a British subject
who has resided at least two years in Aus-
tralia, £5OO. For best scenario not hitherto
produced containing Australian sentiment,
written in Australia by a British subject
who has at least two years in Aus-
tralia, £5OO. , In the case of native-born
Australian competitors resident overseas
scenarios need not have been written in
Australia. As to film prizes: (1) Only
films actually produced in Australia between
Jan. 1. 1929, and Mar. 31, 1930, will be
judged. (2) At least 75 per cent, of the
scenes must be “shot” in Australia or Man-
dated Territories, and capital employed in
production must be substantially British.
(3) Approx. 50 per cent, of acting and
work of production must be carried out by
British subjects at least two years resident
here. (4) Films must not be less than
5000 ft. and not more than 8000 ft. (5) No
restriction regarding origin or authorship of
story. (6) Pictures to be judged on a
scale of points; at least 50 per cent, of
possible points is necessary for a first prize,
second or third. 40 per cent. (7) Films to be
delivered on or before Mar. 31, 1930, to Chief
Censor. (8) The Appeal Board appointed
under the Films Regulations, together with
such other adjudicators (if any) as may be
appointed, will judge. As regards film scena-
rios: (1) Entries close as above. (21
Scenario shall provide for picture-length
film of not less than 5000 ft. nor more than
8000 ft. For further particulars. Chief Cen-
sor, Commonwealth Films Office, 9-13 Bligh-
street, Sydney.
What countries are not members of the
League of Nations? — l4ls.
U.S.A., Brazil, Soviet Russia, Turkey,
Egypt, Ecuador, Mexico, Afghanistan, Costa
Rica and the Iledjaz. Costa Rica withdrew
on the ground of the expense, but may rejoin.
Brazil also withdrew.
Brief Answers.
Tallawalla: Government bonds. As for
the rest, there are very few poor bank investments;
there are many very poor insurance ditto. . . . J.A.0.:
Not the strongest in the world, but quite satisfactory
—outgoings well within revenue, and about quarter
of a million in hand... .Wallingford: You can do
better.. . .8.H.L.; (1) A probate policy is, generally,
merely a whole-life policy, with an endorsement
that the money shall be available for paying duty
after the will has been proved. The premiums are
tiie same. (2) Quite; though you might get better
net rates elsewhere W.G.D.: (X) Couldn’t say
without seeing the books. (2) Of course something
should be written off, unless depreciation has been
made good by purchases out of earnings. (3)
Depreciation... . 8.H.E.; There isn’t likely to be
any trouble about it... .A.H.T.: Dogs were probably
responsible; experts think it most unlikely that a
fox would kill a full-grown wether. .. . J.C.: Sydney
Daily Telegraph (now D. T. Pictorial) was
established in 1879... .Maryvale: “Classing the
Clip,” by C. E. Cowley; Angus and Robertson,
Sydney... .8.G.M.: (1) and (3) Frank Hambridge,
22 Bridge-street, Sydney, will advise you. (2) No.
. ...T.M.: (1) A lieut.-commander, Royal Navy, gets
from £1 Bs. 2d. to £1 12s. per day; a commander,
£1 17s. Bd. to £2 Bs. lOd. (2) A commander takes
precedence over an army major... .H.M.: From Fred
Hagen, 63 Hunter-street; season catalogues will not
reach Sydney till October; from Bs. 6d. to £1
P.P.S.: (1) Fred Hagen, as above. (2) Thomas
Cliffe, Golwyn. Bay, England G.H.8.: (1) Write
Thos. Firth and Sons, 207 Clarence-street, Sydney.
(2) Bums, Philp and Co., Bridge-street, Sydney, are
agents... .E.T.A.: In contract bridge, when A deals
and calls one no-trump, C can raise the bid to
two no-trumps even if B makes no ca 11.... K.1.M.:
See reply to No. 1295 G.P.: Bert Hinkler left
Croydon at 4 a.m. Feb. 7, 1928, and arrived at
Darwin at 5 p.m. Feb. 22. He travelled in an
Avro-Avian. .. . R.M.: Many different varieties,
beginning generally as a little sore or ulcer that
refuses to go away, despite all treatment by oint-
ments. Practically all curable by medical men so
long as they haven’t gone too far J.P.D.: (1)
Yes. (2) A few chest specialists have it. (3) In
a few cases it has given promising results. (4)
Only chest specialists. (5) Depends entirely on
the case. (6) They are legion. Get in touch with
Dr. Baret, Director Tuberculosis Campaign, Sydney.
Ask your doctor for further particulars J.E.G.:
(1) “Vegetable Growing in N.5.W.,” N.S.W. Govt.
Printer, Phillip-street, Sydney (2s. Bd., post free).
(2) Taree District (N.S.W.) would be suitable....
1.C.0.5.: There is none. The condition varies of
its own accord and the patient generally has stages
"'hen he feels better than others. A reasonable diet
is permitted, though some authorities disallow meat.
Some eases respond to injections, and it is always
worth while seeing a specialist A.C.P.: Can’t
recommend. In most cases the best thing to do is
to have it operated 0n... .J.T.D.: Station hands in
W.A. employed under the Federal award, £3 17s.
per week without keep or £2 11s. 4d. with keep
Award is procurable from Federal Govt. Printer,
Melbourne, 2s. 3d .T.V.W.: No chance at present
of a correspondence-school pupil getting a job in
Queensland as telephone mechanic. Vacancies for
next .18 months will be filled from list of successful
examinees... .L.D.: See reply to 1092 J.M.D.:
Communicate with Director, Aus. Tobacco Investi-
gations, 175 Coll ins-street, Melbourne. In view of
inquiries now in progress, intending growers should
not start until advised by competent authorities....
8.J.M.: Let water come to the boil, throw in leaves
and take billy immediately from fire. The water
must be boiling in order to make good tea....
A.C.: In full it is, “Arcades nmbo, et cantare pares,
et respondere parati” ; freely translated, “Arcadians
Loth, equal in the song and ready in the response.”
It is from Virgil’s “Eclogues” C.T.A.: Communi-
cate Dept, of Agriculture, Brisbane; it has analysed
grasses (including Flinders and Mitchell) from all
parts of Q’land L.M.H.: 11. .1. Corder Pty., 240
Chapel-street, Rrnhran, Vic M.F.C.: Formula for
lime sulphur is 501 b. lime, 1001 b. sulphur and 50
gallons water. It cannot be recommended, however,
for the purpose mentioned... .E.F.: Wednesday,
January 24, 1923 E.IT.P.' and C.H.TI.: Try
Kuwahata and Sons, 183 George-street,' Sydney....
G.Iv.G.: Unable to trace. Write Patents Office,
Adelaide, giving full particulars .Powell: See
“Farmers’; Handbook” (pages 125-129), issued by
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture. .. .W.P..T.: (1)
Australian Spark Plugs Pty., is purely Australian
and is working with Australian money. (2) Com-
monwealth Match Works Ptv., is not connected with
any other match co. in or out of Australia
A.G.: Ordinary corn cannot be “popped” like pop-
corn, nor can wheat. Puffed wheat is made by a
special process. There would be no advantage in
“popping” or “puffing” wheat or maize for poultry.
... .5.V.0.8.: There are no treatment works in
Australia dealing with that class of ore. Suggest
you communicate with Frank Hambridge, 22 Bridge-
street, Sydney.... C.S.L.: Indian squaw costume
should be made in brown cloth or leather, tunic,
sleeves and short skirt cut with a deep fringe.
Leggings are also fringed at side. Headband (with
quill feather) and tunic are beaded and trimmed with
bright colors. Light brown liquid stain for the
face costs Is. per bottle; it washes off. To make
costume out of paper, see Dennison’s “How to
Make Crepe Paper Costumes”... .E.M.8.: The better
classes of fireless brooders are patented. They aie
not dear, and it would be more profitable to key
one than to try to make a substitute R.V.H.:
You do not give particulars of the property or of
the extent of the council’s control. Section 232
(3) (e) of the N.S.W. Local Government Act, 1919.
exempts councils from liability for fencing costs
under the Dividing Fences Act, 1902, in respect of
fencing along public roads... .T.A.M.: They are good
people, not long in the business, but trustworthy.
. ...E.W.V.: We don’t know who recommended- it
—the canvasser, we should say, and not the actuary.
Look up “Wild Cat” Monthly for December last.
.. . . W.A.8.: The amount received under the ordinary
probate policy 'is included with the estate and pays
probate tax R. 8.: It is a gamble at long odds.
It has the same prospects as a Cup outsider....
Bushite: No. 2 is better established; its bonuses are
good, too. ...L.J.: Don’t view them as an invest-
ment ; but they are a very fair speculation. You’ll
take large risks ; but the prizes may be large.
Nobody can tell yet.... (Many others mailed.)


4 4an*
V,"
r :: '
k *«ii
VA
MS f///////" y/ ',, ■
/
m
s/s.
m
m
<\m
m
m
%
m*-..
m
y/s
m.
m
3>
Wh
'llu
I
>.mw!
uU»
Li-crSl
embodies all
the qualities a good hat
should. Easy fitting
su P er b finish—incompar-
able: style. The colours
remain fast even after long wear.
Your mercer has a wide range of
shapes and sizes.
ŵ


EXTRA HIGH GRADE
SMOt&ING TOBfleeO
its
•ualit
is
unequalled
119l 1 9 per 2oz Tin
A WONDERFUL BODY BUILDER
ẃ
MY ADVICE
TO YOU I
TAKE
AB
TONIC WINE
RELIEVES
EXHAUSTION
AB
AB
SterTCO®^
TRADE MARK-
REGISTER FO
BUILDS UP
THE SYSTEM
AFTER ILLNESS,
ẅ
Obtainable everywhere throughout Australia—
CHEMISTS, LICENSED GROCERS, HOTELS, etc.
Suppliers for N.S.W. and Q’land: McLaughlin & Co., Ltd., Corner Sussex and Hay Streets, Sydney.
„ „ West Australia..... Distillers Agency, Ltd., Bazaar Terrace, Perth.
T'n cm or. *0 1 Irvine & McEachern, Brisbane Street, Launceston.
» „ lasmama | Ferguson & 00., Murray Street, Hobart.
Sole Proprietors: ARNOLD BROS., A.B. Building, 527-529 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
7hp centre of Queens/onc/s
' ct/'s/ingu/sbeo/ Soc/o/ Li/e.
~OM
RDTCrj
BRISBANE
Magnificent sai i-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal ol
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, wit!?
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Lines.
ŵ
SMOKE-OH!
The Federal Treasurer seems to be an
entire Page of miscalculations.
•V *
“Ten bathers were drowned when they were swept
„“ e shore in a heavy undertown.” —Orange
( N.S.W .) Advocate.
Atlantis located at last!
* *
Billkins has been married for only six
months, yet liis wife is already beginning
to regard him as her late husband.
FIXING THE BLAME.
“The times are bad, and vve must alter them,
not blame the young people they vitiate.” —Sydney
parson.
Ah, blame them not, I beg of you,
Nor on their souls rain verbal blows;
But rather see in what they do
The damage from the damn age flows.
H. M.
* *
IN PRAISE OF FRANKNESS.
The human ear is so often affronted by
palpably hypocritical speeches that the recent
offer of the All Blacks to give Australian
footballers hints on how to play failed to
arouse the applause it deserved. Far from
being discouraged, this kind of thing should
be applauded. Great is sincerity, and there
should be a lot more of it. Some sugges-
tions follow.
The Sculler (as stakeholder hands him
£1000) :
“Thanks for the gift. It has always been
my policy never to turn down a good thing.
WHAT THEY CALL A GENERALITY
USEFUL.
“Fancy, I caught my husband kissing the
maid! But he had to pay for it. I
made him buy me a new dress.”
“Of course you discharged the girl?”
“Oh no, not yet; I need a new hat.”
When this match was first mooted I pre-
tended to sidestep it. The idea was to
enable my backers to get some money on me,
and I am pleased to say the ruse succeeded.
It was the easiest row of my life. They say
I won by 20 lengths. I could have doubled
that, but I thought 20 was sufficient to save
a dead-heat decision in the likely event of
the judge being squared.”
In Civic Life (the departing townsman rises
to respond to the toast of his health at
the usual send-off) :
“Well, I’m not sorry to leave; in fact, I’m
dashed glad. She used to be a decent town
once, and might be again if it wasn’t for
the flamin’ lot of crooks that’s spoilin’ her.
Yes, I’m leaving this town for some of the
townsmen’s good. The cows know who I
mean. I expected more than what you’ve
give mo. The Mayor said: ‘The gift is not
of great intrinsic value, but will remind you
of the associations you have left here.’ Too
right it will, and if ever I come near you
again you can shoot me on sight fer a loo-
natic. Good-bye an’ blarstyer !”
Mick Anic.
“But how would Scotland receive prohibition?”
Hoots, mon !
* *
“The Nationalist Government runs a well-stocked
political store.”— S. M. Herald.
It seems to be out of employment, though.
•¥*
A result of the Vic. Cabinet’s decision to
finance country freezing works was the pro-
duction of three Ministerial cold shoulders.
¥ ¥
Safety platforms nine inches high are to
be erected at Sydney’s street intersections.
Hit-and-run motorists will, no doubt, appre-
ciate having their pedestrians teed up for
them.
“After rain the site of the Vic. Government’s
proposed new cattle yard is under water.”
In fact, it’s more suited to the sail of
Melbourne’s scows than the sale of Mel-
bourne’s cows.
* *
THE RESTLESS SEX.
Some of Man's woes are never done;
They come again and yet again.
Thus age on age goes moving on,
With Eve for ever raising Gain.
* *
“Another Sad Bridge Accident,” shrieked
the evening paper heading. “But how on
earth did the reporters hear of it?” queried
little Mrs. Binks, who ha’d only just trumped
her husband’s ace.
AFTER THE DIVORCE CASE.
FIRST BARY: “Well, I’m very glad the mater
has got the custody of us both! It’ll be
a relief to escape from that man eter-
nally jigging us up and down on his
bony knees!"
“Professor J. Arthur Thompson writes: ‘No one
can come to harm through walking in the moon-
light.’ ”
Bloggs disagrees. An indiscretion of the
sort was to blame for liis engagement and
subsequent marriage.
“A returned Australian says he found the world’s
dirtiest cities in Poland.”
Quite likely. Wasn’t this where Fleadom
shrieked when Kosciusko fell?
* *
“The lions at Taronga have been curiously silent
this winter.”
The cold has got them on the roar, no
doubt.
* *
“The abolition of Federal Arbitration means going
back to the law of beak and claw.”— A. W.U. speaker.
But the whole point of the scheme is to
abolish the beak.
* H-
FORESTALLED.
Little Bo Peep,
She lost her sheep
Just when she looked most like a scorer;
To shear him she burned
Of his cash, hut she learned
That her granny had got in before her.
Sandy.
* *
“Strong Leaders Wanted.” —Melbourne Argus.
And snappy sub-leaders, too.
* *
0, a life on the ocean wave's all right,
When the latter is seraphic —
And the drinks you drink and the food you
bite
Believe in a one-way traffic.
Ric.
¥ *
“Harrow’s second innings score was 1/6 for six.”
—Melbourne Sun.
Wickets certainly fall cheaply on those
English pitches.
* *
“The picketers gathered outside and made insulting
remarks to the men working in the yard.”
That was certainly over the fence.
They were discussing opera. “My favorite
aria is ‘The Jewel Song’ from ‘Faust,’ ” she
said. “What’s yours?” “The ‘Motorist's
Song’ from ‘Rigoletto.’ ” “What!” “Yes,” he
repeated. “You know, ‘La Donne e
Mobiloil.’ ”
The drama Jones wrote was a horrible
frost —
How bad a frost Jones doesn’t know.
When after the show from the wings it was
tossed,
They sliced it for property snow!
“Frederick Hardy was called upon in Melbourne
Arbitration Court to answer charges of breeches of
the wool workers award.”— Age.
Still, it was the best award to make
breeches of this weather—far better thau,
say, the tinsmiths’ award.
¥ *
TARONGA TIT BITS.
“Come on, Tommy, come and see the
monkeys!”
“Go, Mummy, isn’t that one like Grand-
pa?”
“Boohoo—l wanta ride a nelephunt!”
“Did you like the ride, darling?”
“No —-boohoo—l wanta ride a nostrich!”
“Talking of snakes, how’s your boss be-
having lately?”
“Hullo, Cocky—Pretty Cocky—Ugh, the
ugly brute bit me!”
“Wait a minute, Mummy, I want to see it
spit!”
“Boohoo—it spitted on me!”
“What’s the good of going to the
Aquarium—l didn’t bring a fishing line!”
“That monkey eats just like Uncle Joe!”
“George, don’t you dare tell me my neck is
like a swan again!”
“Storks? They’re dying out, aren't they?”
“There’s the bell —get out while you’ve got
the chance!”
Doric.
* #
Mary had a little lamb;
She taught it how to sing.
But now it is an ancient ram,
And you should hear the thing!
NO FIXED AMOUNT.
"How much does a glass of beer cost you
up at Walgett, Dad?”
“It all depends ’ow many walk in with yer."
“Mr. W. M. Hughes successfully broke down the
barrier. It withered Under his burst of vigorous
language.’’
He came, he swore, he conquered.
“Les Leeds, an Orange golfer, found his ball
lodged fairly in the centre of a sixpence, lost,
apparently, some time ago.”
This explains the local legend of a ghost
in plus-fours who speaks of the game as
“gowf.” and conducts nocturnal searches in
the vicinity.
YER NEVER KNOW.
Ycr never know ivliat girls'll do,
Or the way they'll go.
Although one sez she loves yer true —
Ar, yer never know!
Bhe lets yer grab ’er little ’and,
In the pitcher-show,
An’ whispers softly, “Bill, you’re grand!”
Yer never know!
She eggs yer on ter buy ’er things
Wiv yer ’ard-earned dough.
Choc lates an’ taxi-rides an’ rings j
Still, yer never know!
If she sez: “’S’orl right. Me ’usband’s out,”
I alee me tip an’ go.
In such circs. I’m alwiz filled wiv doubt.
Cnpes, yer never know!
DORIC.
PROVERBS A LA RUSSE.
“A strike in time busts mines.”
“He who has gold embitters.”
“Still factories mean sleep.”
“Honesty is a bust policy.”
“Cleanliness is next to dottiness.”
‘‘Look not upon the wine unless it’s Red.”
“Where there’s a will to work there’s a
jay.”
S.W.K.
THE HINT.
I once met a girl on the Namoi,
Who powdered her nose with a chamoi.
She, appealing to me,
Said most wihsomety, “See
Irn not too bad-loolcing, now am oi?”
“You are not,” I replied, “you look dapper,
But now about lip-salve, my flapper?”
“My lips are made red
By kissing,” she said,
Don t be an old goat! Use your napper!”
GECKO.
FACE TO FACE WITH DOOM.
(Reprinted from, the Daily Blither.)
Look Into the Mind of a Man Condemned.
The Bill of Costs Is Growing—Two More
Co-re. s Have Been Added—He Can Do
Nothing.
Faithful to its policy of givina the public
the horrors wherever possible the Blither
has torn this heart-throb from the bleeding
bosom of a poor wretch laid on the divorce
rack. Juan Hot-stuff is one of our merchant
princes—a £lO,OOO a year man. Hearken to
his pitiful tale.
A hard-eyed lawyer’s clerk handed it
to me. God! I can see that bit of blue
paper now. In the shock of the moment
I spilled the typist from my knee and
got to grips with Fate. The blow had fallen !
At last. Dimly I had become conscious,
a few months previously, when discovered
by my wife in the maid’s bedroom, that some
day Divorce might stare me in the face.
But I had tried to shut out the thought.
Ah ! dear Heaven how I had tried! So it
was that my wife had discovered me on
Bondi Beach with the waitress from the
Spaghetti, and identified me spending the fol-
lowing week-end with a barmaid at Manly.
And now the blow had fallen. My home
ruined, reputation gone, a colossal' bill of
costs piling up against me
A bullet might end it all.
Drowning I had heard described as an easy
death. Others spoke highly of prussic acid.
And so now I calmly face the end—the
inevitable end, for surely this end is inevit-
able if end ever was inevitable. The lawyers
will make it a welter. And costs will be
given against me on the highest scale. There
is only one thing left—to tell my story to
the Blither.
I have done it. The Editor, the News
Editor, the men in the machine-room, and a
few others have had a good cry. And so
the tragic chapter ends. The comedy is
finished. In about 15 years, if they appoint
a couple more judges, my case will be reached
on the list, and I will be a Divorced Man
And to-night....
To-night I take the barmaid at the Bal-
forina to the Mountains.
PERCY PAWNTICKET.
FOR OBVIOUS REASONS.
Once :
He would take his miss
Ever so far,
And the engine would miss
Ever so far
From home.
Now:
Tie takes his missis
Not very far,
And the engine misses
Not very far
From home.
TREROR.
SOCIAL NOTES FROM OUR LANE.
The many friends of Mrs. Badly-Slashed
will be pleased to hear that she is pro-
gressing favorably and hopes to be about
soon with hardly a scar showing.
At an ultra-smart little welcome-home
gathering last week Mr. Will Slicem was
the recipient of a beautiful presentation case
of razors. They are intended to replace
those which were commandeered before his
last trip to Long Bay.
Much sympathy was felt at the death of
Mr. Gasher, who passed away at Gory-lane
yesterday. Throat trouble, we understand,
was the cause of his sudden demise.
A pretty wedding, which attracted many
members of the Younger Set, was that of
Miss Angie Snow and Mr. Bert Blades.
After the ceremony the happy pair left the
two-up school under an arch of bottles held
aloft by the gentlemen guests.
RIC.


..mm jdm
.^sm
mw*"
as
D'ii*
, v ~
•^sgv ; .
«"
VI
\
J
m
v>U
m
' -:•£%
sW?®?
mi
i-:. •t?:
i; •■••;•.»
1
&
*1
LET'S
IT'S EASY
A twist of the finger and thumb and the stopper
is drawn. And, having drawn the stopper, you
are able to enjoy a creation of a genuine old
master, Johnnie Walker.
Critics laud with enthusiasm the art which pro-
duced this perfect spirit...and acclaim with un-
stinted praise the crowning stroke of genius which
devised the new cork stopper.
The man in the street doesn’t waste time in
fanciful flights—he enjoys his Johnnie Walker,
and says, "Great!” And the stopper’s a
corker.
X
m
k
i
■v ■- G
WAbKER
MISKY
JOHN WALKER SC SONS LTD., SYDNEY, MELBOURNE,
LONDON, and KILMARNOCK
Lift the tag —remove the capsule —
and a turn of the fingers will give
■)ou access to a whisky which for
more than a century has won the
tf i proval of the mo§t critical.


OF
WILLYS
OVERLAND
sSj
SJ«(g
Sks.
whippet
FOURSand SIXES
w x mn
THE STYLE CREATION
o/ MASTER DESIGNERS
WITH its longer bodies, graceful lines, harmonious colors, higher radiator, and
sweeping one-piece full crown mudguards the new Superior Whippet represents
superlative mastery of modern design and is definitely the style authority in its class.
Mechanically as well as artistically, the new Superior Whippet sets its own advanced
standards. A higher compression engine gives increased speed, livelier pick-up and
greater hill-climbing ability, as well as fuel con-
sumption at 30 m.p.g.—and more. Other important
engineering advantages include silent timing chain,
full force-feed lubrication, aluminium alloy invar-
strut pistons, big four-wheel brakes. *
See the new Superior Whippet at your nearest
Willys-Overland dealer’s. He will be glad to
arrange a demonstration.
p*
0
K
ne
new supe±Lo J L
New “Finger-tip Control”—a
single button, in centre of
steering-wheel, starts the
engine, operates the lights
and sounds the horn.
WHIPPET FOUR
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LIMITED,
62-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LIMITED,
173 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
OVERLAND (VIC.) PTY., LIMITED,
117-21 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
E. G. EAGER & SONS, LIMITED,
Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane.
ADAMS’ MOTORS, LIMITED,
442 Murray Street, Perth.'
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LIMITED,
53-63 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
NEW SUPERIOR WHIPPET FOURS AND SIXES.


-
f4f»'jy2' ■*« v. 1
"I find Rexona Soap
nvaluable for my skin
and hair.”
EVE WILLIAMS.
ẁ
rift Aoc
lb IU/IIJKk3I
o Udd^flavour
At all good hotels i
and tobacconists 1
Special box prices on ropiest
Wholesale Distributors
CRAIG &AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
mm
Pen and Picture
The
STARE
THEATRES
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Shadow Shows
If Tolstoy could see “Love,” alternatively
entitled “Anna Karenina,” lie would get the
surprise of his corporeal and celestial exis-
tence. In it M.-G.-M. have essayed to con-
dense a majestic tome of some 200,000 words
into a 60-minute movie. The result is comic.
It is like trying to explain a soliloquy by
Hamlet in a 16-word telegram. All that
remains of Tolstoy’s laboriously-built-up
atmosphere is a bit of confetti masquerading
as a snowstorm and a couple of photos of
sunsets. AH that is preserved of the trials
and tribulations of the soul of Anna is
some baby-hugging by Greta Garbo, much
mutual face-licking between herself and John
Gilb. rt and the realistic presentation of Miss
Garbo being run over by a railway-train.
With her blank, white, mask-like face and
heavily-painted lips and eyebrows the lady is
merely ii poster Anna Karenina. There is a
great affectation of bigness in this picture—
envelopes half a yard square and ink bottles
large enough to swim in ; but an outsize in
clothing never turned a dwarf into a giant.
“Submarine” (Columbia) is one of the
most stirring films this Column has seen for
many a week. Incidentally, it should unwit-
tingly help to strengthen the hands of the
people who want to abolish underwater war-
fare. The producers, in their anxiety to
push home the horrors of death by asphyxia-
tion in a submarine disabled on the ocean
floor, stretch their audiences’ capacity for
sustained pity almost to breaking-point; but
the impression left on the mind is all the
more intense. The fish-like vessel is rammed
by a cruiser during manceuvres, and 20 or
60 men lie down to await death at a depth
to which no diver has hitherto been able to
descend. Man after man, however, attempts
to reach the vessel with an airline, only
to be dragged up insensible and put in the
decompression chamber. One of the doomed
party is a petty officer who has made free
with the wife of a cobber, the finest diver
in the navy. Desire for revenge is keeping
this man out of- the way, but in the nick
of time he learns that his wife has been
deceiving him —his friend did not know that
she was married. There is the inevitable
exciting rush per motor, speedboat and aero-
plane to the scene of the disaster, while
grimly realistic pictures are interpolated of
the tragedy being enacted in the submarine’s
interior. The rescuer descends and duly
reaches the hull just as the captain is about
to hand round a revolver to the survivors.
“Submarine” has considerable dramatic
power; the love-story in the background is
by no means trashy and the photography is
amazing. Jack Holt, Dorothy Revier and
Ralph Graves contribute some excellent
acting. The film is a sound picture rather
than a talkie, so the action isn’t hampered
by the leaden boots of screen dialogue.
It is going to take some time to educate
the Australian public up to the point where
it can thoroughly appreciate the beauties of
pictures so thoroughly American as “The
Broadway Melody” (M.-G.-M.). First of
all. it will
ANITA PAGE.
have to learn
what words
an d phrases
like “your
arm is swell-
ing,” “cut ’em
deep and let it
bleed,” “coffee
and cake jack,”
“cracked ice”
and “goulash”
mean in the
elegant argot
of Hollywood.
Then it will
have to get
accustomed to
the disconcert-
ing fact that
screen god-
desses like
Anita Page
and Bessie
Love have
voices not un-
like bullfrogs
conversing in
a pond. Having attained to this degree of
knowledge, a non-American audience might
get a lot of amusement out of “The Broad-
way Melody.” It is as beautifully uncon-
scious of its own innate vulgarity as an
Arnheim Land aborigine is of his nudity. It
depicts with such whole-hearted gusto the
loves, hates and struggles for millionaire-
keepers of a lot of chorus girls that the
spectator’s moral sense is no more alarmed
than if he were surveying the behavior of
an aviary of wrens. An interesting picture,
“The Broadway Melody,” but not always in
the sense the producers intended it to be.
“Coney Island” (F. 8.0.) is the familiar
surefire story of the young man who is
trying to make good with a bemusement park,
the reward of his success to be the hand of
the beautiful heroine. The only obstacle in
his path is the villain, who owns all the
other confusement parks in the place and
tries to ruin his rival by sending squads of
obvious crooks to create disturbances on the
Scenic railway, in the Katzenjammer castle
and other devices. Of course, he fails, but
only after some exciting happenings against
a wild and whirling background of Ferris
Wheels, crazy chairs, underground rivers and
the like. Being a non-talkie, the picture pro-
vides a reasonable amount of entertainment
in a commendably short space of time. No-
body knows how Lois Wilson would handle
o r mishandle the English language and pro-
bably nobody cares. She is good to look at
and for the simple purposes of the yarn her
gestures are explanatory enough.
The Palette
At the Fine Arts, Melbourne, Harold
Herbert continues to exploit his popular
formula for making romantic decorations out
of well-known tourist resorts. This year he
has been haunting Tumut in the autumn,
when the poplars are flaming to Heaven like
spurts of yellow gas, and the sight has intoxi-
cated him. After one has got over the first
sensation of enjoyment, one easily turns from
the too insistent golden vegetables to the
sober sureness and delicacy of “Morning
Sunshine,” “The Sandhill Track” and “Rain
in the Hills.”
What is perhaps the finest picture of the
week, if not of the year, is Justus Jorgen-
sen’s commissioned portrait of Professor
Berry, the retiring Dean of the Faculty of
Medicine at Melb. Uni. It is to be hung in
the Anatomy School, and it is to be hoped
that it will be hung high, so that the unthink-
ing may be unable to come too near. Seen
close, it looks a muddle; but seen at the
proper distance it becomes a masterly por-
trayal of a masterful little man, caught in
a state of suspended animation between two
moods.
Recent shows in Melbourne include a
parade of waters and oils by Margery
Withers (Mrs. R. McCann) at the Athe-
naeum. The best of Mrs, McCann’s work
are her sensitive little sketches of nudes. In
the medium of oils, color gets- the bit between
its teeth and runs away with her technique.
In No. 2, “Summer Holiday,” two girls are
reclining under scarlet umbrellas in this
shade, and there is an almost butcher’s-
shop ferocity about the tonal scheme of a
picture that should be all restfulness and
peace.
Unlike Ray Lindsay’s show, which was
practically all character study and fierce at
that, Daryl Lindsay’s exhibition of water-
colors at the Macquarie Galleries, Sydney,
was composed of landscapes and seascapes.
Many of them were done in Tasmania, where
the artist lately toured; a timber ketch
at Dunally and Carrick landscape are
beautiful. “Autumn on the Goulburn” is
another excellent piece of painting, and so
is a romantic view of —of all things—a nest
of smelters. There was a rush of buyers at
very moderate prices.
The Inky Way
“X.” : Tlie Adelaide house of Preece and
Sons is about to push on its way Desider-
ata, a literary quarterly; editors, John
Preece and Peter Lindsay. Peter, just
turned 21, is Lionel Lindsay’s son.
Steele Rudd's Magazine has made a wel-
come reappearance in Sydney. Stories,
sketches and verse are of a high standard,
and an “On Our Selection” study by- the
owner-editor strikes the old rollicking note.
The maga. is well printed and illustrated.
“Sturt”: Adelaide Register for 90 years
was a decorous and rather conservative daily.
It lately added News Pictorial to its name,
altering its shape and its contents accord-
ingly. A few old subscribers fell away, but
auditors’ certificates show that the change
has brought a 65 per cent, increase in sales.
Addicts who mourn when the Chess and
Draughts Newspaper turned up its toes
will appreciate the Australasian Chess
Review. Edited in Sydney by Cecil J. S.
Purdey, Maoriland’s finest player, and
runner-up for last year’s Australian cham-
pionship, the new publication starts with
the imprimatur of authority. It includes a
bridge section.
“Kay”: George Burns, of the Lyttelton
Times, was sent to the West Coast to “do”
the earthquake. Leaving Christchurch on the
second day, he penetrated into the heart
of the ruined country, and for a week of
nerve-racking shakes kept his journal well
informed. He also wrote some fine descrip-
tive stuff for the Star. For his good work
Burns was promoted to a senior staff job.
“Ex-Express”: Lord Beaverbrook may
have said that his only association with his
papers was as an occasional contributor (B
10/7/’29), but he didn’t by any means Icav.’
sole responsibility to his Man Friday
Blumenfeld. The little man with the puck-
ered, child-like face was always on deck.
I he cii culation of his Daily Express topped
the million because of his happy though '■
that what a gloomy post-war England needed
was happy thoughts. lie spread himself on
the front page every other week to prophesy
trade revivals and confound the pessimists
the ;Y AI L °" the side of Fleet-street.
When the smiling nobleman appeared in tin
big press-room the staff would chorus sott<
voce, Brighter days ahead!” And thon«'
they haven’t come yet the prophecies con-
tinue.
DELETIONS.
Somewhere beyond the realms of print
Lie, stark and cold, the murdered lines,
With riven glory, vanished glint,
Where no glad approbation shines ;
In some deep sepulchre entombed,
Shorn of their pristine panoply.
By grim blue pencils early doomed,
The dear, dead purple patches lie.
They haunt me sobbing through the hours,
Those lines sub-editors have slain,
That erst had been effulgent flow’rs
Within the garden of my brain;
Staid sentences and stanzas rare,
To glad the literary eye;
And mournfully I wonder where
Those dear, dead purple patches lie.
Ah me! When Justice is complete,
And Compensation’s glass has run,
Shall victory be made defeat
And gladness out of woe be spun?
Shall, ail deletions get their turn?
Shall (when all mystery is stript
From life) blue pencils fiercely burn
In fires of sub.-slain manuscript?
N.S.W.
HOMFREY BEALE.


ẃ
ẅ
w
)ustributors for New South Wales:
WILLSFORD, LTD.,
132-134 Phillip Street,
SYDNEY.
’Phones: 8W2291 (5 lines).
Distributors for Victoria and Tasmania:
RICKARDS BROS. PTY., LTD.,
567-573 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
’Phone: F 3114.
Distributors for Queensland and Northern Riven
PEELS, LTD.
407-431 Stanley Street,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
’Phone: J 1561.
Distributors for South Australia and Broken Hill:
AUTOCARS, LTD.,
58-72 Flinders Street,
ADELAIDE.
'Phone: Central 5500.
ẁ
TASMANIAN DEALERS:
THE SERVICE CO. OF TASMANIA, 56 Paterson Street, Launceston.
E. MEERMANN, 135 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
BENNETT & GILBERT, Best Street, Devonport.
(21-178)


Han king, Public Companies, etc,
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. •• £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. - • 1,875,009
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares . • • - 3,75Q,0d0
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
6KANTS DRAFTS
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS 'j;
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
(Incorporated by Act of Parliament' 1865,
and Registered under the Companies Act 1892,
of South Australia.)
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 267 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. ..£1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 985,000
£2,235,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,485,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEADENHALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world. ,
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted.. All usual
banking business transacted.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — . think of
w
SCHUTE
BELL &C Li*
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Officer 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
fc.
%
a
ASTHMA i
No matter how severe your
ASTHMA, CATARRH, COLD
IN THE HEAD, BRONCHITIS,
etc. Potter’s Asthma Powder
brings immediate and soothing
relief.
Of all Medicine Vendors 2/6 per Tin.
POTTER A CLARKE. LTD..
Artillery Lane, London, England
For outdoors, use Potter’s Smoking
Mixture and Cigarettes
ŵ
vASTHMA
S^QWDE^
¥
?>>
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
NZ. TROTTING CONFERENCE
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CUUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISLAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAL ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW. ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to —
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World’s Leading
Advertising Agencies.
Shipping, etc.
Travel \l e Beauty Route
Canada
United
States
Europe
via Pacific
Isles
P articular s oj
Rates, Sailings,
Routes, etc., and
Through Booking —
WHICHEVER your destination,
the routes of the mighty Union
Company Liners pave the ocean-
way with golden stepping stones. . .
the Sunny Pacific Isles. Voyagers
to Vancouver call at Auckland, Suva
and far-famed Honolulu. Or,
travelling via Wellington to San
Francisco, you see Raratonga and
Tahiti, vivid wonderlands of tropical
grandeur. The Union Company’s
Combined Service enables fort-
nightly trans-Pacific sailings from
each end, and tourists bound leisurely
for Europe may book for the com-
plete journey to insure ahead their
comfort and convenience.
Union Steam Ship Co.
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street,
Melbourne, Cl.
ill
mill
‘ife
■mOWO?,, ■j&eSsdwim
■"• I • ; -
#
. ---i
smm
BKf
m
mm
Lm
Burns Philp Tours.
A VISIT TO JAVA
(the Garden of the East).
Native Bazaars, Famous Temples, Tea Gardens.
SPECIALLY CONDUCTED TOUR.
Leaving Sydney 7th August, 1929
S.S. MARELLA (7500 tons).
Seven weeks’ inclusive tour, £129 (All Expenses).
■Fare includes First-class Return Steamer Passage and
about 14 days’ Motor Tour through JAVA. All Hotels,
Sightseeing and Motor Guides, etc.
Book Early. Party Limited.
Pacific Island Excursions
To — Papua, New Guinea, Solomon
Islands, Lord Howe Island, Norfolk
Island and New Hebrides.
TRIPS OF 2 TO 5 WEEKS’ DURATION.
An ply to
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE,
ADELAIDE.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund. .
Reserve Liability
A
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20,900,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 1928, £88,982,585.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
554 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Dills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.'
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISHED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL: £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,075,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - = 4,739,012 10 0
£13,553,025 0 0
Directors:
GEORGE JUDAH COHEN ( Chairman ) ;
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND; Major-General
the IJon. JAMES WILLIAM MAC ARTHUR ONSLOW, V.D., M.L.C.;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURBT.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office —18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, and at Canberra,
Federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and ail other parts of
the world.
All Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS.-—lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
FOR BRISBANE, MACKAY, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS
(Transhipping for outports).
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passerigors due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/L/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CIIAULIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart ParkerL
. MaguiFloenl
Faat Passenger
Steam Jlii|)3
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars appIyHUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for tie original.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and i
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, 133 a Pitt Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.


w
BUILT in a factory that has at its disposal all thq
huge resources of General Motors, of world-wide
fame. Built in Britain of~ 97 per cent. British
materials by all-British labour. Built specifically for
motoring conditions as you find them to-day, And
how utterly pleasant those conditions are you will
know when you drive the Improved Vauxhall.
An engine that pours forth its eager power to
take you humming along the open r0ad,...0r doles it
out economically to edge you through traffic in top
gear....THE VAUXHALL ENGINE!
Brakes that relentlessly check a 70-m.p.h. speed-
burst and smooth it out to a standstill in a few seconds
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR
....or masterfully hold the car on a down gradient when
you just rest your foot on the pedal.... VAUXHALL
BRAKES!
Springs that damp out every jolt arid tremor of
the wheels....or hug the car tight down on the road
at a bend....VAUXHALL SPRINGS '
Briefly, a car that gives you a high average
speed on the roads of to-day....a car that moves
serenely among its fellows like the aristocrat it is....the
Vauxhall....,the NEW-IMPROVED VAUXHALL!
There’s only one way to appreciate Vauxhall
performance....drive the car!
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER
GENERAL MOTORS (Australia) PTY. LTD.
METROPOLITAN DISTRIBUTORS :
Sydney: Boyd Edkins, Limited, Phillip Street.
Brisbane: Metropolitan Motors, Limited, Adelaide Street. Adelaide: Mann’s Motors, Limited, Franklin Street.
Perth: Master Mo'tors, Limited, Milligan Street.
tt\ooded Lme


ẁ
RITISH
3
VO
a*
<
a~no
3 jQ no 3
r 2<a
n 2 * ?
S O 3 <«
55 « TJ O
"•ft 2"°T2
£ ■SO'
-C
««
111
« bfi
3 ns r,
tA a r*
- W
i
y Z
ti *> u
c 'o'
mn
It 4) ;
X
►> bu «
C .
X
a
Q J
z a
< !*»
bu
C* r bd .
li]Q XQ
ZH«Z
02 J -<
d 55 j
H °«£
Sg° u
a a
RENRUT \
QUADRUPLE
HAND PUMP J
Price, 45/- J
(With Gauge ,
V 5/- extra.)
If unable to obtain,
write to our Factory
Representative;
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Mel-
bourne, Australia.
Fov They are Jolly Good Fellows.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
p FSTH’S
SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
And so say all of us.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., AND GERALDTON. [1
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Tragedy attended the Moonee Valley
(Vic.) 'meeting last Saturday. Quick Deal,
one of the favorites for the Hurdle Race,
fell with Hugh Cairns at the lina] obstacle,
and rolled on the unhappy jockey. Terrible
fracture of the skull resulted, and the poor
chap died almost as soon as he reached the
casualty-room. Though in years gone by lie
won Grand Nationals on Merunqua and
Olontaft, Cairns practically relinquished the
Bect:"Ano WHAT IS THIS ONE*?
GEQT '."OH THATS A NVVbHIE '[
'■■■■ //
&EC2T AvNO WHAT OO l CAUL. THIS ?
QEIRT \MEU\_ / VOULL CML IT
Eveqyth\ng, you can think
OF FOR. AVs/HILS/'
jumping game when lie struck a run of luck
on the flat as pilot of Heroic and Spearfelt.
Fortune had not been kind to him for sonie
time, and he accepted the mount on Quick
Deal, who looked a safe conveyance, having
scored at Geelong 10 days before. As an
all-round horseman, Cairns had no Austra-
lian equal. He was such another as the
late Billy Powell, who won a Grand National
Hurdle bn Shoddy and a Caulfield Cup on
Hvmettus in quick succession.
Mosstrooper, considered to have good
prospects of carrying off the big jumping
double at Caulfield, was tried over the bat-
tens in the race that was fatal to Cairns,
He essayed to deprive Yanto of the pace-
making role; but made a bad blunder. Mur-
rell had difficulty in keeping Mosstrooper on
liis feet, and the chestnut dropped out of it.
He pulled up sound, but is bound to lose
favor for the Australian Hurdle, which
comes on for decision next Saturday. When
Quick Deaf fell Rakwool (8 to 1) had the
race w r on ; he came home six lengths ahead
of Cobran veil. Rakwool is trained by Fred
Hoysted, whose family have been associated
with racing for 60 years or more; the
Woorak gelding ran disappointingly in a
Trial Hurdle at the Grand National meeting,
but has improved greatly.
• • • • • •
Because he finished w-ell in the Lindsay
Gordon Steeplechase, some Moonee Valley
patrons were inclined to take Chaumont to
their hearts again as an Australian Steeple
candidate. It has to be considered, however,
that heavy going prevented a fast pace being
set. The winner, Wanda King, a 12-to-l
chance, is owned by Mrs. Arthur Crozier,
whose husband bred Berrinbo, the 1
Grand National Hurdle hero, and Namera,
winner of the G. N. Steeple last year.
y.R.,0. committeeman E. Manifold did the
bookmakers a good turn by appropriating the
Berrimut Handicap with Pytchloy, who was
quoted at 10 to 1. The 2-to-l favorite King
of Revelry, did not seem able, to gallop in
the mud, and assisted in wliipping-in. Mani-
fold was confident of bringing off a stable
double, but Bavaroy let him down in the
Jumpers’ Flat The result had compensa-
tions from a Western District point of view,
the winner, Cash King (12 to 1), belonging
to W. Lindsay, of Warrnambool. James
Scobie shook hands with himself when Blast
led into the. straight, but the chestnut was
overwhelmed in the last few strides. There
could not have been a more exciting finish.
Cash King scored by a head from Cceur de
Lion (formerly owned by Mrs. T. M. Burke),
with Blast only half a head farther off. It
was an adventurous afternoon for Alick
Fullarton. He had a fall off Greener in the
Derrimut Handicap, finished second on Chau-
mont in the Steeple, and snatched victory
in the Jumpers’ Flat.
Albert Coppel opened his purse widely in
supporting Rudyard for the middle-distance
Glen Orla Handicap. Backed from 5 to 1
to 2 to 1, the half-brother to Scarlet, a Syd-
ney Cup winner, disposed Myarin from favor-
itism, and vanquished the mudlark by a head.
Murthong, brother to Manfred, gave promise
of atoning for recent failures by taking a
division of the Sunset Welter, but succumbed
in the end to Mystic Peak (7 to 2), who
was handicapped to concede him 201 b.
**• * *
For Caulfield on Saturday:—
Australian Hurdle: May Day; next Long-
lands. ;
Malakoff Stakes : Nawallah ; next, Shadow
King.
* * * *
Owner-trainer Tindall, who has a very use-
ful team of young horses and is wisely
giving them plenty of racing while they arc
fit, was again in the picture at Roseliill
on Saturday. The backing of licino (5 to
2). Reonui (6 to 3) and several others
enabled him to get 12 to 1 for some ot tue
money he planked on Shankara tor tnc
Auburn Handicap, and that brisk V lolon-
cello—-Twitter gelding, whose price firmed to
eights, always shaped like a winner. Reonui
challenged him, but Shankara went too last
for the Maoriland horse. In the first divi-
sion of the Maiden Juvenile Handicap, lin-
dall’s Urangarra (2 to 1), previously unlucky,
dead-heated with Eton Blue (7 to 1) ; so the
stable landed a double at last-
• • * * .
Coutts, William Kelso s jockey, rode iin-
dull’s pair, and but for repeated disappomt-
ment on the journey his mount Pal anion
(7 to 4), trained by Kelso, would probably
have won the Granville Stakes. With Pala-
mon striking all the bad luck imaginable,
short of falling, that race went to Cool
Dan (10 to 1), ridden by McCarten. Per-
ception confirmed impressions that he is no
Epsom horse by finishing an indifferent
fourth in the Rydalmcre Mile, captured by
Greenstead’s son Bawn-na-glas (6_to 1) from
Flinders (12 to 1), and Lord Kennaquliair
(3 to 1). The experiment of racing Lord
Kennaquliair at a mile has not been justified.
* * * * „ ‘ .
Blather (3 to 1) was favorite for the
Club Handicap, and when Parr shot him to
the front in the straight his faithful follow-
ers thought they -were going to collect at last.
But the disappointing brute weakened and
was passed again by Tidal (7 to 1), leader
into the straight; then- Valamita (12 to 1)
came along and beat the pair of them. 1 ala-
mita was contemporary with Windbag, and
must be a wonderfully hardy horse to stand
all the racing he has had, especially as he
is a stallion.
* * * *
For Warwick Farm on Saturday :
Denham Court Handicap: Gay Ballerina;
next, Urangarra.
Farm Stakes: Palamon ; next, Segrave.
August Handicap: Lord Konnaquliair;
next, Speeclnnaker.
Edensor Park Handicap: Bawn-na-glas;
next, Bacagi.
* 4c * *
Canterbury Park fancies :
Tellers’ Handicap: Borient 11.
Holiday Handicap: Eden Hall.
Bank Handicap: Flinders.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Maorilander Johnny Leckie and Yankee
Pete Sarron supplied another thrilling bout
at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night, Sar-
ron reversing the decision in their first clash.
The American proved too strong and rugged
for the clever and plucky Leekie, who took a
lot of punishment but always tried to fight,
back. Sensation started early in the second
round, Leckie being floored for nine with a
solid hook to the jaw, but he fought brilli-
antly up to the fifth round, using a great
left to the face and a solid right drive to
the body. There was not a great deal be-
tween them up to the eighth, but from the
ninth to the finish Sarron took charge, mid
looked likely to end it at any moment. He
fought Leckie all over the ring in the
11th and dropped him for nine, repeating
the dose in the following round. The devils
round saw the finish. Sarron gave Leckie
a terrific leathering and knocked him down
for keeps with a right smash to the jaw.
Sarron scaled Bst. 91b. and Leckie Sst. 11-Jlb.
* * * *
“Fernie” : Let me clear up a point raised
by “Avon” (B. 19/6/’29), who disclaims
pugilist Fitzsimmons as a Maorilander. Bob
was born at Elston, Cornwall, on June 4,
1862. His farmly migrated to M.L., and
Fitzsimmons made his debut as a boxer at
the age of 18. in Timaru, in a tournament
organised by that famous old British veteran
Jem Mace. Fitz beat four other lads and
won the tourney. As lately as 20 years ago
the Fitzsimmonses still had roots in M.L.,
for I can remember Jack, a nephew of Bob,
winning an amateur boxing championship
in the old Christchurch Theatre Royal.
Whoever taught Jack, it wasn’t his uncle.
He straddled his legs as wide. apart as he
could get them, which made him very slow
on his pins, and he relied on a straight left
for both attack and defence. But it was
a very lethal left. Bob Fitzsimmons used
to shuffle round in a paralytic style until
he unleashed his famous shift.
* * * *
A crowd reminiscent of Thye-Clapham
days was on hand at Melbourne Stadium
on Saturday to witness the Eustace-Pesek
match. Eustace worked hard with his collec-
tion of arm bars and body scissors,
but though Pesek was outpointed he refused
to be pinned. In the fourth round a little
rough stuff was playfully introduced. Pesek
scored in the sixth with his customary dump,
and though Eustace again had all the best
of things over the closing stages lie could
not make things even. Eustace. 15st. 121 b.;
Pesek, 13st. 6lb.
Footbrawl
Saturday’s chief Vic. League game, be-
tween Carlton and Richmond, drew 35,000
to Carlton Oval. Carlton is fairly safe for
the final four, but the Tigers have tough
games in front of them. 1 lie Blues played
a forceful game up to lemon-time, but in
the last quarter the Tigers ran all over them,
finishing with 93 points to Carlton s s<.
The best 'ball occurred at Footscray, whithei
Essendon had journeyed. Neither team had
better than Buckley’s chance for the finals,
but defeat meant disaster, wherefore each
strove valiantly. In the end Essendon won
by a point—7B to Footscray 577 Mel-
bourne and Geelong had much at stake. \m-
tory to the latter meant a place m .1 he
Four,” with Melbourne outed, so play was
keen right to the end. A great mark by
Warne-Smith staved off defeat just as the
bell rang, with Melbourne 50 pointsi and
Geelong 48. On their own ground, bt. ROda
had little difficulty in dealing with South
Melbourne, winning with 99 points to South s
56 Fitzroy easily downed North Melbourne,
with 102 points to 85. Collingwood had an
exercise canter against Hawthorn, Gordon
Coventry booting the League record of lb
goals. Previous best was 14, kicked by H-
Robertson, of South, against bt. Kilda, in
19]3. Scores were: ’Wood, 22 goals n>
behinds (142) ; Hawthorn, 7 goals 14 be-
liinds (56).
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The Victorian football bai
racker is often a person of unscrupulous,
not to say fiendish, ingenuity when it comes
to spragging the wheel of the opposition. A
Bendigo club complained to the .League tnax
a spectator in a motor-car behind the oppos-
ing club’s goal deliberately focussed Ins head-
lights on the faces of the complaining oLuo’s
players when they were attempting shots at
goal. As the game ended in semi-darkness,
the trick proved a serious impediment to
the dazzled knights of the boot.
* * *
“Hotham”: Parsons have figured promin-
ently in the annals of Rugby Union football,
but they are comparatively rare in boccer
and the Australian game. A Melbourne
journal has recently been moved by the pre-
sence of the Rev, L. Williams m the Haw-
thorn (Vic.) side to recall several others
Chief among these is Sydneys old friend
the Rev. R. B. S. Hammond, who played
with Essendon while a divinity student, and
later, when he became curate of Christ
Church, with Geelong.
* *
“Gate”: The N.S.W.-Q. Rugby League
team has 32 matches ahead of it in
the north of England. It is evident that
the League officials at this end are under
no illusion as to the advisability of playing
one of the Tests at Wembley. Of course,
it would be a fine missionary effort, but
the gate, which is all that counts in profes-
sional football, would certainly be infinitesi-
mal in a quarter which has never even heard
of the northern game. So it was resolved
to inform the English authorities that while
the Leagues on this side had every sympathy
with the missionary spirit, they much pre-
ferred the certainty of a good gate in Lan-
cashire or Yorkshire.
(Continued on page 37.)
Willie Smith turned the tables on Walter
Lindrum in Sydney; the Englishman led by
1129 points when their time-limit match
ended. On the final day Smith scored
a splendid 102 S, Lindrum responding with
701 unfinished.
* * * *
France retained the Davis Cup, beating
America in the challenge round in Paris by
3 matches to 2. Borotra and Coehet won from
Lott and Tilden in the first singles, but went
down to Allison and Van Ryn in the
doubles. Tilden was too good for Borotra
in the second singles, and it remained for
Coehet to beat Lott. This he did by 3 sets
to 1.
THE DISGRUNTLED GOLFER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sunshine, a Colonel white.
And a fairway smooth for me,
And may there be no chatter as I smite
Off some Hat grassy tee.
Rally, a perfect lie,
And a comfy stance for me,
And may there be no breathing of a sigh
Along the quiet lea.
Mid-iron, a treasured club,
And a trimming shot, metliinks.
Thus far you may not call me quite a dub,
My comrades of the links.
Mashie! The game’s a farce!
May ye o’erlook my sin,
And there’ll be much replacing of the grass
As yonder sneers the pin.
Putter —at last I’m up,
And a two-foot putt for me.
But I can sink this blighter in the cup
In nothing less than three!
Away w T ith club and ball!
However tough your plight,
Few there will be who sadden at your fall —
It simply serves you right.
MAORILAND.
GRAVEYARD.


r
w
Sa**'
at:
2 1 *
Queen
Ann*.
Shop*
After dinner
(cy&jf") HO would ruin the
%JU fine aroma and stimu-
lus that Coffee brings as
the finishing touch of
Dinner by serving it in
cups less delicate than its
own fragrance? It is in-
dispensable that the service
should be worthy of the
coffee: a Shelley Coffee
Service deserves the best
that Mocha boasts.
Ask to see the latest
SHELLEY
Tea Sets - Nursery Ware
Coffee Sets- /yLucieAttweu
Morning Sets c-HildaCowham
Dainty White Domestic V/are
• China • Jelly Moulds
m Cass op any difficulty im obtaining
WRITS TO
T»W.h«ath c CO.ltd.
I
=sT'
t Jr*
IA
Accidents^
happen/
AT HOME —where more than hall
the accidents happen—be sure to keep
Zam-Buk always handy. There is far
more danger than you think in the cuts,
knocks, burns, scratches, and other
accidents that happen during cleaning
and cooking. The danger comes from
deadly germs which swarm into the
tiniest break in the skin and set up
festering and blood-poison.
A dressing of Zam-Buk on any sore
place promotes quick clean healing. It
is soothing and purifying; it kills all bad
germs which would set up poisoning and
it safeguards the damaged tissues until
the growth of new skin is complete.
The secret of Zam-Buk's great success
is due to its refinement, unique herbal
character and entire freedom from the
animal fats and crude mineral drugs
found in ordinary ointments.
Zam-Buk has a wide range of usefulness for
® nc “ troubles as eczema, ulcers, ringworm,
cold-sores, bad legs, poisoned wounds, abscesses,
scalp disease, piles and for chilblains, chapped
bands, sprains, and all superficial injuries.
ftmßuk
1/6 box & 3/6 family size. All chemists.
Kgiyl: Rat' o *
Dog food
Supreme
ar
A perfectly balanced meat ration;
keeps dogs of all kinds in
the pink of condition.
FREE—Sample Tin sent to any address
in the Commonwealth on request.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB
P. O. Box 1821, Melbourne
KgN;T: Ration
Garages equipped with
Tecalem it
LUBRICATING APPARATUS
render the best service to Car Owners by
keeping cars “youthful” and' eliminating
the cause of 80 per cent of repairs.
Particulars from
TECALEMIT SERVICE STATIONS:
ATKINS (W.A.), LTD. Hay Street, PERTH
CORNELL, LTD. 122 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD. - Bateman Street, MELBOURNE
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD. Pitt Street, SYDNEY
MARTIN WILSON BROS., LTD., 299 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE
Factory Representative .... Mr. James Thornell, 312 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
TECALEMIT, LTD. ----- Mitre House, Scrubbs Lane, LONDON, N.W.10
r-m
m
W
Write for
illustrated
Catalogue.
THE
“WINTON,”
£l6/10/-
THE “WINTON”
PERFECT
STOCK SADDLE
A first-class saddle designed to increase
the comfort of horse and rider. The posi-
tion of the pads gives perfect security for
rough riding, and the combined flap and
skirt give a narrow, non-chafing grip.
The panel has wide leather points to sides,
and the fittings included in the price are
folded girth, bevelled leathers and solid-
nickel stirrups.
For cash with order we pay freight to
any station on N.S.W. railways.
WE HAVE SADDLES TO SUIT ALL
THE “BOULIA” BIG-DIP STOCK SADDLE
THE “BULLETIN” STOCK SADDLE
THE “G.S.” STOCK SADDLE
THE “PIONEER” STOCK SADDLE
THE “DANDALOO” STOCK SADDLE
THE “WALLAROO” STOCK SADDLE
THE “TANDEROO” STOCK SADDLE
PURSES
£l5 17 6
£lO 7 6
£8 19 6
£7 15 0
£6 15 0
£6 5 0
£5 15 0
WALTHER S STEVENSON, LTD.,
SADDLERS,
395 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ON
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.: M. J. Ryan. Em. •
If. t. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
thiough the leading Banking Institutions covering’ Australasia and the World, this
Hank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of ail general banking business.
EUROPE’S
BEST RADIO
SHOW
ẅ
BETWEEN September 23
and October 3, the finest
radio show yet will be in
progress in London. Whether
you are a trader or just a
radio enthusiast you should
endeavor to see this wonder-
ful display of modern radio
equipment.
Full details sent to authorised
dealers on request to the organisers
me NATIONAL
RADIO EXHIBITION
OLY M PI A L ONDON.
ENGLAND
September 23 to October 3.
Organised by
THE RADIO MANUFACTURERS’ ASSOCIATION, A star House, Aldwych, London TP. (7.2
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN WATERPROOF
PAPER, AND PROCESS OF MAKIM
SAME.
T HO proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 17835/20 is prepared to negotiate for
the sale of Ins rights in the above, or for
the granting of a license to make, use an
vend the invention within the Commonwealth
of Australia on reasonable terms Par
ticnlars obtainable from Flintkote Com.
pany, Park Square Building, 31 St
James Avenue, Boston, Mass., U.S.A
IMPROVEMENTS IN
REFRIGERATING APPARATUS.
T o ';. proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 3703/26 is prepared to negotiate for
- - . I j....... ..y ur S u,ia lc
the sale of its rights m the above, or for
the granting of a license to make, use ami
vend the invention within the Commonweah
ot Australia on reasonable terms. p,
ticnlars obtainable from Griffith & Hass- 1
latent Attorneys, of 77 Castlerear
Street, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN
REFRIGERATING APPARATUS.
JpHE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 3697/26 is prepared to negotiate for
the sale of its rights in the above, or for
the granting of a license to make, use and
vend the invention within tin l (’ommonwealtli
oi Australia on reasonable terms. Par-
ticulars obtainable from Griffith & Hassel
Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN
REFRIGERATING UNIT.
T HE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 3696/26 is prepared to negotiate for
the sale of its rights in the above, or for
the granting of a license to make, use and
vend the invention within the Commonwealth
of Australia on reasonable terms. Par-
ticulars obtainable from Griffith & Hassel,
Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN TRUSSES.
■THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 24579/25 is prepared to negotiate for
the sale of its rights in the above, or for
the granting of a license to make, use an
vend the invention within the Commonweah
of Australia on reasonable terms. Par
ticnlars obtainable from Griffith & Hassel
Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN
REFRIGERATING APPARATUS.
’T'HE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No- 3704/26 is prepared to negotiate for
the sale of its rights in the above, or for
the granting of a license to make, use and
vend the invention within the Commonwealth
of Australia on reasonable terms. Par-
ticulars obtainable from Griffith & Hassel,
Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Publication.
“ANGORA RABBITS FOR PROFIT—
, N.Z., AUSTRALIA.”—New issue
shortly, 4/3.—A. SAINSBURY, ex-editor
Smallholder, Box 1489, Auckland, N.Z.
Legal Notice.
TO ARTHUR ROBERT ORR formerly
of Auckland in New Zealand but now
of parts unknown.
. TAKE NOTICE that a Citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New
Zealand. at Auckland citing you to appear
and answer the Petition of Elizabeth Mar-
garet _ Orr of Auckland in New Zealand
wherein she prays for a dissolution of her
marriage with you on the ground of separa-
tion under a Separation Order made by a
Stipendiary Magistrate for New Zealand
and such Citation intimates that in default
of your so doing the Court will proceed to hear
the said Petition and to pronounce sentence
therein notwithstanding your absence Now
therefore take notice that for the purpose
aforesaid you are within sixty days after the
date of the last of these publications to
attend in person or by your solicitor at the
Supreme Court Office at Auckland and there
to enter an appearance without which you
will not be allowed to address , the Court at
any stage of the proceedings.
A copy of the said Citation and Petition
will be supplied to you on your applying for
the same at the Supreme Court Office at
Auckland.
DATED at Auckland' this eighth day of
July, 1929. •
[L.S.] S. A. CLEAL,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing
advertisement. Gordon James Carlyle Ben-
nett is the Solicitor for the Petitioner, whose
address for service is at the . office of Mes-
sieurs Bennett & Jacobsen, Solicitors, S 5
Queen Street, Auckland, New Zealand.
GOLF SETS
Imported from the Heather Co., Scotland.
EVERY STICK GUARANTEED.
vA
Special Matched
Sets,
Comprising—
BRASSIE,
MID-IRON,
MASHIE
PUTTER,
TAN BAG,
2 BALLS.
COMPLETE SET,
57/6
STAINLESS SET,
696
We pay carriage.
N.S.W. Sports Store, Ltd.
26 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
ALAN KIPPAX, Director.


Performance
That Thrills
&AAAAM
AAl&fc
Graham-Paige offers a variety of body types,
including Roadsters, Cabriolets, Coupes and
Sport Phaetons, on five chasses, in sixes and eights
—at a wide range of prices. All are equipped
with four speeds forward except Model 612,
Two High Speeds
Standard Gear Shift
Distinguished by their beauty and comfort, the new
Graham'Paige sixes and eights possess also the thrill"
ing performance of four speeds forward (two high
speeds with standard gear shift). Only personal ex'
perience can give you an adequate appreciation of the
new smoothness and swiftness of fourth —and the
rapid acceleration in traffic and up steep hills of third,
a quiet internal gear. You start in second; first, in
reserve, is instantly available but seldom used.
w
Model 621 Five Passenger Sedan.
QUEENSLAND . .
NEW SOUTH WALES
VICTORIA
Graham-Paige Distributors , Australia and New Zealand:
MOXON MOTORS, LTD. SOUTH AUSTRALIA .. .. MAUGHAN THIEM MOTOR CO., LTD.
W. H. LOBER & CO., LTD. WEST AUSTRALIA ARTHUR BALES, LIMITED.
. WALTER WHITBOURN PTY., LTD. TASMANIA TWIN-TOP MOTORS PTY., LTD.
NEW ZEALAND WRIGHT, STEPHENSON & CO., LTD.
GAAAAM-PAI&£
Footbrawl
Australia won the third successive Test
from the All Blacks at Sydney Cricket
Ground on Saturday by 15-13 —2 tries and
3 penalty goals to 3 tries, two of which were
converted. There were close on 30,000 pre-
sent to see the unique feat accomplished.
Wales has defeated the All Blacks once and
South Africa has defeated them three times
in all, the Springboks’ best record being 2
wins to 2 last season. The result of the
series just over is likely to stand as a record
for many years. In the three matches Aus-
tralia scored 6 tries, 1 converting goal and
7 penalty goals (41 points) ; the Maoriland-
ors' tally was 6 tries, 2 converting goals and
2 penalty goals (30 points).
The recovery of the home side on Satur-
day, after being 8 points down in the first
10 minutes, was a striking instance of foot-
ball morale. It was a great game, with the
All Blacks trying to keep it close for the most
part, and to “spoil” the opposition. Later
they resorted to open tactics, but were met
in kind with an impenetrable defence and
vicious counter-attacks which often left them
standing. Generally they were beaten for
pace, and their rugged forward work was
met by men as heavy and as forceful. Of
the winning side, Malcolm and Lawton, in
spite of close watching, were the keystones
of the back division, with King a close third.
Towers showed some of his old form in the
second half, but Eric Ford and Westfield
were patchy. Porter, the All Black skipper,
was out by himself as wing forward and
everything else. A better exposition of effective
übiquity has never been seen in Rugby foot-
ball. Lilburne and Stringfellow were bril-
liant inside backs, while the forwards, led by
the dashing McWilliams, were typical of
their breed. Maoriland sadly missed Oliver
and Dailey in the backs, but the home side
would have been safer with Ross, Palfrey-
man and Louden able to play.
* * * *
With Lawton absent, the Queenslanders put
up a good losing battle against the All
Blacks in Brisbane, going down by 27 (7
tries and 3 goals) to nil, after scores had
been 6-0 at half-time. Outweighted, the
locals showed some fine combined play, and
were unlucky in not scoring several times,
llobb played a great game at full back for
the home side. The M.L. forwards were
in fine form, well led by skipper Porter.
* * * *
“Bowen Park” : The hold of the revived
Rugby Union code in Queensland is seen in
the record crowd which attended the Brisbane
Test between M.L. and Australia, 19,500
passing through the gates. Attendances at
the League matches between Queensland and
N.S.W. just previously were only 14,000 and
9000 for the two games played.
“Stand Off”: The itinerary of the British
Rugby Union side in Australian next season
shows that seven matches will be played,
beginning with the first match against Aus-
tralia at Sydney on August 21. Another
Test will be played at Brisbane, and the
team will also show in Melbourne and Perth,
sailing for Blighty on September 22.
Arrangements are in train to form a Rugby
Union Board of Control, with delegates from
Queensland, N.S.W., Victoria and Westralia,
to supervise the tour.
* * * *
With the stars on their way to England
the Rugby League competitions in Sydney
on Saturday created little interest. South
Sydney had no trouble in beating Eastern
Suburbs at the Agricultural Ground, the pre-
miers scoring 8 tries and 5 goals to 4 tries
and 3 goals; Wearing was the outstanding
figure. At Marrickville, St. George narrowly
defeated Newtown by 13-10, while North
Sydney drew a hard game on the home
ground with Western Suburbs, scores being
7-7. At Birchgrove, University did rather
better than usual, going down to Balmain,
which scored 24 to 18.
sis Si: * *
“Gate”: The Australian Rugby League
team which is to meet its brother profes-
sionals of the North of England departed
last week for Britain amid a splurge of
adulation from its press supporters, one of
ERIC WEISSELL, the N.S.W. Rugby
League five-eighth, who is expected to
be one of the stars in the Australian
side which has left for England.
these going so far as to style the young men
from N. S. Wales and Queensland “the
nation’s heroes.” Opinion is divided as to
their chances of success. The advantage that
a touring team always has may help them,
but on comparative form the side would seem
to be the weakest sent away since the first lot
went to England in 1908-09. The touring
Englishmen of last year made hacks of the
best the local men could muster, and it is
probable the story will be repeated on the
other side. The opening match of the 32
to be played will be against Rochdale, a
Lancashire club, with the first Test at Hull
on October 5.
“Sob": One Sydney journal seized upon
the departure of the Rugby League profes-
sionals for Europe to plumb the deepest
depths of bathos. It published a full page
of illustrations depicting the departing
heroes bidding tearful farewells to parents,
while weeping women packed the baggage
of the loved ones they might never see again.
In spite of some of their performances
when in Australia, there is nothing about
the League players in the North of England
to justify the inference of their ferocity
contained in the publication.
“Old Q.” : The quarrel between the Queens-
land Rugby League and its Brisbane rival
looks like going in favor of the latter,
though the N.S.W. body has decided to
recognise only the former when arranging
matches. On the other hand, the 8.R.L.,
which controls the principal clubs in Bris-
bane and outside, save Toowoomba and
Ipswich, is said to be successfully negotiating
with these two strongholds of the enemy.
The Nineteenth Hole
The Victorian professional golf champion-
ship played on the Sandringham course last
week provided a surprise, the winner turning-
up in Reg Jupp, who defeated a hot fav-
orite in the South Australian, Rufus Stewart,
by 6 and 5. Stewart, who had played mag-
nificent golf in the earlier rounds, could not
hold his opponent, in spite of the fact that
he consistently outdrove him. Jupp, who is
professional to the Metropolitan Club, was
consistency itself, putting faultlessly, and
only making one mishit on the day.
* * * *
“Fluffier”: The wrongs of those Sydney
caddies (B. 24/7/’29) leave me cold. Be-
sides being the natural enemy of the average
golfer, the breed is as wanting in respect
for its superiors as in sympathy for their
shortcomings. I recall a little brute to whom
I appealed for advice as to the next club
to use. “What would you take if you
were me?” I asked. “Ther nex’ flamin’ ’bus
fer ’ome,” was the reply. “An’ w’en yer
get there, mister, stay there.”
* & * at
“Baffy”: Freak golf is not fashionable
in Australia, though greatly in vogue in
America. The latest stunt is coming off
in Europe, an American having wagered
with a French friend that he will drive a
ball from Paris to Berlin in 7000 strokes,
the distance being 674 miles. Between shots
he will travel in a car, and where a ball
is lost or is inaccessible another may be
dropped without penalty. He expects to do
the trick in a fortnight. To the writer, the
crux of the affair will be getting across the
Rhine, a mighty ugly water hazard.
* * * *
“Miramar”: The Maoriland team for the
Kirk-Windeyer Cup, which is to be played
for in Melbourne August 8-10, arrived
in Australia last week, and should be in
fine fettle by the time the big match comes
off. Most of the members are expected
to take part In the Victorian champion-
ships which begin this week, though there
is a possibility of the two events overlapping,
which may affect the entry of the visitors.
The veteran A. D. Duncan was prevented
from coming at the last moment, his place
being taken by J. L. Black, a youngster
wlio was runner-up to T. H. Horton m the
last Dominion championship. llorton and
Dr. Ross are both well known on this side,
but this is Morpeth’s first trip this way.
He is rated the finest player in Maoriland
(lie is open champion) and is famous for
the distance he gets with both woods aud
irons. He will be the only member ot the
team to play in the Australian champion-
ships in Adelaide from August 19 to 20.
* * * *
“Query”: Patterson River (Vic.) club, is
the latest to venture into the field of semi-
private semi-public golf, which is proving
such a commercial success to municipalities
lucky enough to' possess a golf-course. The
club is near Carrum, and combines the cheap-
ness of public links with the lengthy fair-
ways and well-cared-for putting-greens of
private courses. The course is over 6000
yards long, and includes one hole of 670
yards. Payment may be made by the round,
day, week, month, year or life.
sjs ]]: $
“Gutty”: The stealing of golf-balls by
crows is becoming such a commonplace that
the daily press is full of schemes for cir-
cumventing the thieves. One suggestion was
that the color of the ball be changed, the
writer’s notion being that the crows have
been mistaking the pills for eggs. There
is nothing revolutionary in the color theory,
for in countries where snow-covered links
are not uncommon, a scarlet ball has long
been the correct wear, and it may be said
that the color shows up on green or brown
grass as well. But the crow doesn’t suffer
from the egg complex. It is his insatiable
curiosity coupled with his native devilment
that is responsible. He will try anything
any number of times if the spirit moves him,
and the red ball would attract him as much
as a white or pea-green one.
s\t i\i ; l :
“Slice”: Herbert .lolly, one of the most
successful of British golf professionals, has
been giving liis views us to the reason for
the alleged superiority of the American mem-
bers of the fraternity. Jolly says that the
higher standard, if it can be said to exist,
is due to the fact that the American is a
golfer only, usually well furnished with cash,
and able to get continuous practice. His
British confrere, on the other hand, is usually
a combination of player, club-maker and
coach, and cannot spare the time for train-
ing and concentration on his game. There
is something in the theory. Most of the
British professionals who have settled in
America have shown a marked improvement
in their game once freed from the coaching
and the club shop.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: Victorian associate golf-
ers are mourning the impending resignation
of Florence Green, who lias acted as general
secretary to the Victorian Ladies’ Golf Union
for the past 38 years. Miss Green was an
encyclopaidia on all matters pertaining to
the mild yet irritating game, and this is
the more surprising since she has never been
known to play herself. The resignation fol-
lows on the great increase in the number
of clubs under Miss Green’s, segis. Two
years ago it was 61; to-day it is 100!
(Continued on page 39.)


/
I
-iiti
[RH
101/oms Skill and Care -°and Years ofPatimt Waitini
(
/>*
EHIND the Old Court label lies proof of
the faith which its distillers had in this
fine Australian spirit from the day it was first
placed upon the market.
Realising then that Old Court would in time
be the foremost brand of Whisky on the Aus-
tralian market, they backed their faith by storing
away vast stocks to mature in the wood, for the
(benefit of users in the years to come.
And, from time to time, these reserves have
been supplemented so that never will the time
arrive when there will be a shortage of fully aged
supplies.
Thus to-day, when there are more bottles of
Old Court Whisky sold in Australia than of any
other single brand on the market, the man who orders
Old Court is assured of a whisky of wonderful mellow-
ness and age and all those qualities which make it
“The World’s Purest.”
BUT . . . with this wonderful success of Old Court,
it is timely that a warning be sounded. Old Court Whisky,
by reason of its great popularity, is receiving insincere
flattery in the form of doubtful imitation. An inferior
spirit is being offered as genuine Old Court.
Protect your palate and health with this knowledgeNo whisky
can be sold as Old Court Whisky unless it is so labelled on the
bottle and unless both the capsule and cork bear the brand of
Federal Distilleries Pty. Ltd.
This warning is no reflection on the great majority of hotel-
keepers and proprietors of licensed stores; the distillers of Old
Court Whisky appreciate, as will their public, that no reputable
business house would willingly permit such unfair substitution.
a
Dlutfoitr
Hie Vwld's Pwest J
m A
Qutiumy
>rr
r rr
' ' ✓ " ••• •*
s'.’ -'
zi&t
l"}
*&v,m
k zszn
f it
fit
*E
kP^<> ul2 r, r
'>tr
111
PRICE
BERRY
C J
lIPII
Ccr,
? -rj
i
v
- rr>
¥
X 5 .
\
11
■sa.
— *
%
<ss?
m
m
3S33*S
sir <3*
bil
R
si
I
■s
«
SSS
w •
, V\‘ -
-
$
m


ŵ
Our Own Manufacture,
Carrying Our Guarantee .
mm a b
Two really reliable Windmills
The Billabong
Expert engineers put the Billabong FIRST as an Engineering Achievement.
It is double-geared, and the gears run in an Oil Bath. The Encased-gear
Billabong, with its perfect lubrication, will give many extra years of Service.
A user writes:
“Your Mill is a credit to our Australian Engineering Industry.”
Ask for Windmill Catalogue.
The Busy B
The “BUSY B” is a sft. Wheel Windmill manufactured by us to meet the
demand for a small mill to pump water for Household needs and uses about
the Homestead.
The Workmanship and Materials are quite up to the Billabong Standard
Design is simple and compact with few working parts.
This mill may be fixed to wood posts with good results, at a low price.
Eininni
UN
uuuiiii!
Q,
'rmummiiiia
&SON
uuuuuuuiiid
pry-
391-403 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
ẁ
Car and Cycle
“Hotham”: Something of a record in the
way of motor-car performances is the tour
of Australia by a passenger-carrying motor-
coach which left Melbourne the other
day with a full complement. The route
to be taken runs via Adelaide and Alice
Springs to Darw’in, and thence through
the Northern Territory, Queensland and
N.S.W. to Melbourne again by September
1, after a distance of 6000 miles has
been covered. Nothing of the kind has ever
been attempted in any other country, and
apart from its sporting aspect the tour
offers a unique opportunity of seeing Aus-
tralia from all points of view’.
* Hi * *
“Disc Clutch”: The Bugatti car has
figured so conspicuously in motor-racing
trials that considerable interest attaches to
the announcement of a new design which
is to be available to the public next year.
This is a double eight, with 16 opposed
cylinders, or practically two eight-cylinder
supercharged engines with two crankshafts
contained in a single crank case. The weight
is low —about two pounds per h.p.—and the
twin engines are connected by gearing.
Cylinders are 60m.m. by 84m.m„ their piston
displacement working out at 3800 c.c. The
engine develops 250 h.p. at between 5000
and 6000 revs, per minute.
* * * *
“Whizz”: Riding an A.J.S. 350-c.c on the
Montlhery track, A. Dcnly, the Englishman,
set up several new world’s records for
machines of this capacity. With at sidecar
he cut out 76.67 m.p.h. during a two-hoar
spin, and 76.34 over three hours. His
fastest 100 miles was done at 77.47 m.p.h.
Riding a 500-c.c., he broke three more
world’s records, covering 50 kilometres at
105.01 m.p.h., 50 miles at 105.19, and 100
kilometres at 105.17.
* * * •
“Sprocket”: The latest Victorian and
N.S.W. sporting organisations to part brass
rags are the Leagues of Wheelmen. Victoria
granted a quarter-mile standing-start record
to Broadbent. This was contested by the
N.S.W. body, which asserted that its own
Beer was entitled to the honor. The Vies,
retort that the tone of the N.S.W. letter was
impertinent, and that Ma is no lady.
* * * #
“Freewheel”: The Warm ambool-Mel-
bourne cycling road-race, the biggest of its
kind in Australia, is to be revived this season,
after a lapse of a couple of years. Instituted
in 1895, the race has attracted riders from
all over Australia and from Maoriland. The
MAJOR DAKIN, secretary, of the N.S.W.
Rifle Association, who is organising for
the 65th annual meeting.
fastest time for the 165-mile run is 7h.
12m. 51sec., established by Munro in 19-09,
though Opperman was only three minutes
short of that 15 years later.
Miscellaneous
“Splash” : Australian adherents of water-
polo are getting ready for the visit of a
team from New Caledonia. Water-polo
enjoys a tremendous vogue in the Loyalty
Group, most of the players being drawn
from the semi-amphibious natives. As the
game has only recently been' revived in Aus-
tralia, it is probable that onr men will be
showm a few points by the Island visitors,
who are described by good judges as up to
the best international form.
* * * *
“The Mat”: That eminent bowls critic
“Bias” errs when he says that the drought
conditions alleged to prevail in America (B.
17/7/’29) are unfavorable to the develop-
ment of the noble game. According to a
recent report of the American Bowls Asso-
ciation, w’ith which over 100 clubs are affi-
liated, the game is making rapid headway.
The association is applying for affiliation to
the International Board, of which Australia
is a member, w’hile an American team is to
tour Britain next month.
“Whatoski” : Not' content with disturbing
the comparatively stagnant waters of golf
18. 24/7/’29), industrial unrest has reared
its horrid head in a much more important
branch of sport, the Dogs. Now that the
live hare has superseded the tin variety
at the various Sydney arenas devoted to the
manly pastime, it has been necessary to
maintain a staff of small boys to persuade
bored hares to get a move on before the
dogs are slipped. This entails a lot of rum
ning and vociferation, so the hands asked
for higher wages. A lock-out followed, and
the employers are carrying on with loyalist
labor. Picketing has been resorted to. though
no disorder has as yet manifested itself.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: Though it was hardly
necessary. Johnny Weissmuller, nfow openly
a professional, has torn aside the veil cover-
ing so-called amateurism in international
sport. He says all prominent swimmers are
heavily paid for exhibition swims, and that
track ’ athletes are also handed baksheesh
according to their drawing powers. The
practice is universal. How vise could many
athletes and same players—tennis stars are a
notable instance—find bed and board, to say
nothing of pocket money, since they
do little else but perform in public? On
top of Weissmuller’s announcement comes
the news that Martha Norelius and Helen
Meaney, two American and Olympic cham-
pion women swimmers, have been suspended
indefinitely by the American authorities for
professionalism.
* * * *
“Bermuda”: The quarter-century’s ser-
vice of Vic Horniman as skipper of North
Shore R.C. is equalled by anocher Sydney
enthusiast, W. Anderson, of Sydney Flying
Squadron. This coming season will be his
25th as umpire of the open-boat contests,
and his reputation as the presiding authority
extends throughout Australia. A sculler of
some note in his early days, he wasi also
a notable helmsman before the “18’s” had
supplanted the “22’s” in popular favor,
* # * *
“Miaow”: Following on the victory of the
Westraliennes in the women’s hockey tourna-
ment in Perth, the Australian side which is
to invade South Africa to battle for the
Empire championship, and later go on to
Britain, has been chosen. The team, which is
expected to put the performances of the
Waratahs and All Blacks in the shade, is
representative, including as it does players
from all six States. Curiously enough, the
victorious Westerners have only one “man”
in the eleven, though three are included in
the reserves.
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The Sheffield Shield season
opens on November 8 with the Queensland-
N.S.W. match at Brisbane, while the English
team for M.L. will play three' games begin-
ning at Adelaide on November 1, with
matches at Melbourne and Sydney starting
on November 8 and 15. There is to be an
Australia v. Rest game in Sydney from
December 6-11. Westralia is to come as
far as Melbourne only, playing there and
in Adelaide in January.
* * * *
“Ad”: 'S.A. Cricket Association has a
legacy of £5OOO from Harold Fisher, its
lately-dead president, for the erection of a
new pavilion. It already has stands named
after George Giffen, John Cr'eswoll and
Mostyn Evan.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: One of the features of the
English cricket, season to date has been the
performance with bat and ball of the West
Indian all-rounder L. V. Constantine. Re-
tained as a professional by the Nelson League
club —the same which induced E. A. Mc-
Donald to leave Australia —he has proved
a tremendous draw, his hurricane hitting
being well suited to the Saturday afternoon
match-system of the League, while his fast
bowling has fitted in no less successfully.
In two successive Saturdays his displays
eaxmed him collections of £4O and £3O in
addition to his salary and bonus money from
the club.
* * * *
“St. P.” : “Nip” Pellew, of the A.I.F. cricket
team and the 1920-21 Australian XI, is an
applicant for the post of coach to South Aus.
colts, which Hendren held. There are num-
erous applications from England and else-
where ; and the S.A. Cricket Association
will settle nothing till the beginning of
August.
* * * *
Bill Beach, who was sculling, champion, of
the world half a century ago, is a standing
contradiction of the theory that heavy-
weight athletes can’t live up to the strain
on their hearts. Though just on. 80, and a
big man physically, he is as active as one
30 years his junior, and it is not long
since he was one of the crack shots of the
Sydney Gun Club.
# * * *
“Blade” : Though Mosman will not defend
the Grand Challenge Cup at Henley-on-
Yarra, it is likely that a four from the
N.S.W. ciub will have a shy at the Stewards’
Cup. Sydney R. C. is to send over an eight
for the big event, and the Vancouver R. C.
has promised to give a definite reply to the
Henley invitation in a couple of weeks.
Mdoriland, which has won the Stewards’
Cup for three successive seasons, is also send-
ing a four to defend the trophy. If the
Sydney R. C. goes over, it will be its first
appearance on the Melbourne ditch.
* * * *
“Piseid”: If the Vic. Fisheries and Game
Department makes as big a success of the
proposed scheme of breeding partridges and
pheasantsl as it did of trout breeding, Vic.
sportsmen are in for a good time. It is
proposed to establish two farms for the
birds; £3OOO is to be raised before a begin-
ning is made. Pheasants were introduced
on King Island with good results. It may
be as well to walk warily, though. Pheasants
are notorious robbers of ripening wheat,
while partridges have also a bad reputation
as devourers of young growing crops. There
are already signs of opposition to the scheme
among Victorian agriculturists.
* * * *
“Third Base”: In spite of contradictory
statements, it seems fairly certain that there
will be an American baseball team in Aus-
tralia before long. Australian baseballers
are apt to complain of lack of public sup-
port. If they manage their affairs in the
hole-and-corner fashion indicated by this
last-minute revelation, they have only them-
selves to blame. They should take example
from the cricket and football authorities,
who blazon the coming of a team and ad-
vertise its itinerary months before it is due.
* * * *
“Whizz”: The international air race for
the Schneider Cup. which will be held at
Southampton in. September, will, for the
first time in its history, be contested
by monoplanes only. The entries now closed
have narrowed down to four nations —Eng-
land, France, Italy and America—each
starting three machines. England holds the
Cup, Flight-Lieutenant Webster having re-
corded 281 m.p.h. at Venice in 1927. Trial
flights of the English machines have easily
passed the 300-m.p.h. mark since then, and
some of the other competitors are talking
about 400 being topped. It would be a
sporting insurance co. that would “write
business” with any of the pilots.


When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike,
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
. T *nff
l{ faired I
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
c
HOT
*%
E L
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable it Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel,” Sydney.
ml
26/6,
Y
JlBB.—Specially designed
for style and easy walking.
Snug ankle fitting. Half
sizes stocked, in value-
giving leathers. Black
box calf, patent coltskin,
light and dark tan
willow calfs, 26/6.
w
.1188.
ẁ
155 KING Quality Shoe:
92 M&cleay St.
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT
( Located, within the City Boundary, seven
minutes jrom G.P.0.)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 150 Rooms, is now open and
features Two-, Three- and Four-
room Suites, each with Bath; also
Single and Double Rooms. Central
Heating, Running Water and
’Phones installed in each room.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views.
Weekly inclusive tariff,
from £5/5/-
Daily, from £1
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines); Tele-
graphic address: “Fifmac,” Syd-
ney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckler's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
[?]
The Moonee Valley race meeting on Satur-
day will be gloomily remembered for the fall
which caused the death of Cairns, one of the
greatest of Australian jockeys. It happened
in the first event, and a good many people
had no heart for racing afterwards. The day
was cold and grey and slightly damp. As
usual there were fur coats aim an array of
tweed and cloth with collars and cuffs of fur. A
rather distinctive' feminine suit that caught
the eye was navy blue trimmed with hits of
snake-skin, hat and hose all matched. Mrs.
A. V. Hiskins, State Attorney-!Jeneral and
Mrs. I. Macfarlan, the Russell Clarke couple
and chairman A lister Clark were among the
spectators.
Giannini’s beautiful voice, which really is
of such long rang** as to lx; a two-in-one
organ, floated out for the first time in Mel-
bourne at the Auditorium on Saturday night.
The handsome young prima donna, who
adds inches to her shortish stature by trail-
ing much train, swept satin of the hue of
a harvest moon among the primulas border-
ing the footlights. Further orgy of color was
blended with angel sleeves of royal blue and
oxidised gold that formed a girdle about a
costume of the Sliakspearean era. No
ropes of pearls or sparkling necklets wand-
ered about the valuable throat, the lady’s
only bit of jewellery being a large antique
brooch and plain gold long earrings. Her
shiny black hair just coiled upon the nape
of her neck, devoid of bandeau; flashing
brown eyes, perfect teeth, a happy manner
—such is Giannini. She sang her way
into the hearts of her hearers, and a freez-
ing temperature did not debar enthusiasts
from cheering her to her 'car afterwards.
Molly Bernstein, of the nice black shingle,
who cleverly plays the soulful songbird's
accompaniments without score, made an
attractive picture at the concert-grand wear-
ing a cream bodice that melted into skirt
flounces shaded to orange and dipped to
her heels at the back. Noticed in the audi-
ence were U.S. Consul-General Arthur Gar-
rels and his wife; the Acting-Consul for
Italy, Signor Milano; Mrs. Finn and her
sister Amy Castles; Mrs. J. Connolly, whose
pretty white coiffure was contrasted against
a silver lame coat and white fox fur; the
handled Mcßeatli couple, Professor and Mrs.
A. Gunn, Mrs. E. A. MacDevitt and her
daughter and Mrs. A. Robertson.
Mesdames T. A. Tabart, George Langridge,
C. A. Cowper, A. E. Kimpton and .T. J.
Brenan went into business a couple of
months ago for the purpose of raking in
£lOOO for the Women’s Hospital building
fund. They have reached their objective and
handed the premises back, with many thanks,
to Hoyt’s Theatres. Actual profits amounted
to £1024 18s. Bd.
Upholstered in black with splash of white
and silver upon its velvet surface Madame de
Bavay presided at a bridge-and-afternoon-toa
gathering at her Ivew home, her daughter-in-
law, Mrs. F. X. de Bavay, being about to
return to the Apple Isle. Marie, .the host-
ess’s daughter, softly clad in grey georgette,
supplemented the greetings to the guests, of
whom were Mrs. Merson Cooper, Mrs. Nor-
man Brookes and Mrs. C. Cowper.
Four nice girls joined forces in entertain-
ing many of their contemporaries at a jolly
dance at Chastleton, another fine home con-
verted into a fashionable resort for private
parties and hops. The four were Margaret
Nish and Jean Reid, of Geelong; Betty
Mcßride, of Upper Beaconsfield ; and Mar-
garet MacLeod. Miss Nish and Miss Mcßride
wore chiffon frocks of floral pattern in which
flame and blue prevailed respectively; coral
pink with sparkle of crystal embroidery was
Miss Reid’s choice, and Miss MacLeod
came in a pretty bouffant taffeta gown of
myosotis-blue shade.
A golden-wedding celebration on the 2oth
was that of the Arthur Boyes, of Tennyson-
street, St. Kilda, whose daughters, Mrs. Rus-
sell Jackson and Mrs. Edward Dyson, lend
a hand in many charitable movements. Num-
erous beautiful gifts were received to com-
memorate the occasion, for which many invi-
tations had been scattered, and there was
rejoicing in speech, song and dance at Hazel
Dell. A charming item of the programme
was provided by Madame Kawamura, who in
national dress warftled and played.
The marriage of Jean, only daughter of
Mrs. J. Mcllarg, of Toorak, to Captain Des-
mond Maffett will be a social fixture of
August 27. The rejoicings after the cere-
mony at Scots’ Church will be staged at the
Andrew Mcllargs' residence, Armadale.
The. controllers of the Church of England
C iris’ Grammar School are rejoicing over
the acquisition of the Norton Grimwade
residence in Anderson-street, South Yarra.
The owners are handing over the property
at less than its market value and giving a
cheque to aid the furnishing.
A free trip to Japan has come the way
of a Melbourne girl in unusual circum-
stances. Sven Gahlin, a Swedish timber-
merchant. won the prize at the Big Brother
Ball. Unable to shake off business cares for
the three months required, the Scandinavian
gentleman gallantly handed the ticket on to
a lady friend.
An early showing of spring upholstery
made one forget chapped hands and chil-
blains. For once there is a decided leaning
towards a fashion which seems peculiarly
adapted to (his city’s climate —the frock
with a matching coat, long or short. The
ensemble garment has been with us for some
time, but the new season’s edict rather de-
mands a coat for every dress. Sleeveless
sports frocks of white linen and silk have
tin 1 gayest of coats in figured silks and em-
broidered fabrics. Afternoon and party
frocks also have this added attraction. Skirt
hems promise still to wander from the
straight to assume seismographic points. The
downward and backward dips of flounces and
draperies now popular seem likely to be
most favored for evening gowns. Chiffon
in large floral designs, georgette and lace
will be seen again, put together in no exag-
gerated form, handkerchief draperies, drap-
eries and flounces sort of running a dead
heat. Spotted and zebra-striped silk fabrics
like the one-time marocain quality are among
the new selections for the period.
The flapper will rejoice to find that sin*
has been again catered for with colored
organdies. These models are delightful crea-
tions. exquistely embroidered and further
trimmed with narrow val. lace dyed the same
hue as the confection. Val. and Malines
laces' are also seen migled with ninon and
chiffon. Many of flip sleeveless jumpers, for
the youthful only, are unique; one, of check
white fancy silk, is appliqued with a couple
of palm-trees, beneath which are two coons
partaking of melon—all in natural color.
Another novel form of decoration upon the
coat of a cream silk suit is a border in crazy
patchwork, reminiscent of a once-favored
form of fancywork. Wool embroidery has
also been resurrected to give a gala dash
to an originally cut cape addition, which is
part of a periwinkle-blue satin gown.
Dr. Cecile L. Greil, M.D., of New York,
came to Melbourne with daughter Muriel,
who will be
Julie in “The
Show Boat.”
As Dr. Greil —
here pictured
—piled coal on
the fire in her
sitting - toom,
she put in a
plea for cen-
tral heating.
Americans, she
said, don’t com-
plain of the
severity of our
winter cli-
mate ; “why,
it’s wonderful,
with its sun-
light and flow-
ers ! But the
chill of your
b u i 1 d i ngs !
A m e r i c ans
can’t have it
too hot indoors. We have got past gas and
electricity for heating; oil has taken the
place of both in modern dwellings,” the
lady said.
Born in the U.S.A. of French parents, Dr.
Greil began her career as a journalist on
the New York Tribune, and saved enough
to take up the study of medicine. On that
subject she has done much lecturing and
writing. She was the first medico connected
with the Manhattan Trade School for Girls,
and she also went in for vocational guidance
work, having Professor Thorndyke, of Col-
umbia University, as an ally, besides touring
the States as a Y.W.C.A. lecturer. The lady
is on the honorary staffs of the New York
General and the Mount Sinai hospitals;
Mount Sinai is the oldest Jewish hospital in
the country. She has left another daughter
behind in America. A Dickinson-Monteath
camera introduces the learned visitor.
A farewell brew of tea was passed round
at the Alexandra Club by Mrs. George
Blackwood, of Langi Willi, for her daughter,
Jean Russell, and Mrs. Alan Currie, of
Ercildounc, now aboard the Aorangi upon
a world tour.
Another farewell of the week was staged
by members of the Women Citizens’ Move-
ment, the guest being Mrs. John Jones, who
goes off by the Largs Bay with her husband,
the Rev. John .Tones, to a parish in England.
Long connected with the W.C.M., the
departing traveller received a gentle intima-
tion not to forget old associates —a writing-
case ; it was handed over by the president,
Mrs. Britomarte James. Beatrice Tiernan's
recital of some poems was quite in atmo-
sphere with the evening’s gathering.
“A Hundred Years Old,” the first Reper-
tory play to be produced since Mr. Clewlow’s
return from Europe, is a delightful comedy
of a gentleman who feels that having
reached the century he may enjoy himself
as he wishes. lie arranges a party and
invites all his friends, foes and relations,
even unto the great grandchildren. A trans-
lation from the Spanish of Serafin and Joaquin
Alvarez Quintero, the one setting was a
comfy sitting-room, apricot-toned curtains
against a very blue sky and tall poplars
being background for some good old furni-
ture. Shawls and hair-combs gave just the
note to feminine frocks of the moment. “The
Devil Among the Skins,” a curtain-raiser,
introduced four players in some well-
designed costumes made by Mrs. Seitz, of
the Repertory Society. Irene Weeb looked
fine, in her brown gown and dark blue hood,
as the woodman's erring wife. Some first-
viewers included the Stawell lady and
daughter Elizabeth, Dr. Georgina Sweet, the
Rene Vanderkelen couple and Mrs. A. M.
Dale.
Telegraph boys have been busy delivering
congratulatory
messages to L.
F. Anivitti,
w li o m t h e
Dunlop - l’er-
driau people
have appointed
general man-
ager of the
newly amalga-
mated inter-
ests in N. S.
Wales and
Queen s 1 a n d.
A Dunlop man
since 3.900,
Mr. Anivitti,
whose likeness
accompa n i e s
this par., has
been one of
the Melbourne
chiefs for sev-
e r al years.
Sydney will be
his headquarters, and it is faml-i r ground.
Lou Anivitti is an old boy of Riverview
College.
Mrs. 11. g. Iv. Ward, who has become *
president of the Ladies’ Aid Association of
the Homoeopathic Hospital, reversed the
usual social procedure by being entertainer,
rather than entertained. Wearing navy
blue upholstery topped by a liolly-red straw
hat, she poured tea at the Quamby Club as
tribute to her predecessor. Mrs. Barag-
wanath had 19 years of service with the
L.A.A. A crystal rose-bowl was presented
to Mrs. Baragwanath by fellow-workers.
Wrapped in a musquash coat sable collared
over a black gown, and a glint of gold on
her brown felt hat, the lady said her thanks.
Pianist Edward Goll, who has been tour-
ing America and Europe on seven months’
holiday, is due back in Melbourne on August
4. He will take on agaiu his job of helping
students of the University Con. to master
the keyboard.
Bridge gatherings for charity are all alike,
even to the additional flower and cake stalls
and the smokes and sweets carried round.
Each week brings these card-mixings, for
they provide an easy and sure means of
collecting cash. The Tweddle Baby Hospi-
tal and School of Mothercraft found it so
when it set out to establish a fund to form
a central auxiliary, the Rex being the ren-
dezvous. Raffles of silk stockings and a
sucking-pig supplemented the substantial
takings. Mrs. Springthorpe, wearing navy
blue with mole fur, was among the organ-
isers. Secretary _ May Rimmington was
arrayed in lapis-luzuli hue. Mayoress
Luxton was president of the aiding com-
mittee, Avhich included Mrs. Edgar Dye;
Beryl Barnett and Mrs. Hubert Parker were
treasurers. Following the lead of other
public institutions for the sick, the Tweddle
Hospital will now have an organised band
of helpers to provide necessaries for patients
and so relieve the pressure on its resources.
For some little time energetic women at
Footseray have assisted in this way.
■ The cabaret and card rally to aid St. Vin-
cent s Hospital, directed by Mrs. Merson
Cooper and Mrs. G. Bowcher, had an
eleventh-hour move from Cliveden Mansions
to Menzies’ Hotel to find room for the crowd.
The object was to stock the grocery cupboard,
and at the end of the proceedings the stalls
of cakes, flowers, sweets and cigarettes had
very little left. The Albert-street Con., the
University Con. and the Firm supplied much
of the entertaining talent, Mollie Mackay,
tenor Harry Ivitto and Mrs. John Goodall
being additions to a bright programme.
Mrs. T, V. Millea, Katli Rogers Thomson and
Zara Dickins were ticket secretaries, and
the Melbourne and East Melbourne St. Vin-
cent's Red Cross Auxiliary assisted in full
strength.
Officers, n.c.o.'s and men of the Thin
Division Signallers formed up in the banquc
hall of the Town Hall at a dance to say an
revoir to Lieut.-Col. 0. H. Simpson, whn
has retired from command of the unit after
six years of service. Major \Y. Jones filled
the role of host, while the honorable and
gallant Senator Elliott, familiarly and fondly
known as “Pompey,” was commissioned to
hand over a remembrance to the Simpson
couple—a grandfather’s clock.
In Fashion’s search for novelties, chamois
has been taken from the lowly rank of a
polisher to clothe us. Jumper, hat and gaunt-
let-gloves of chamois are all the rage in Europe.
A returned tripper has brought home th<-
three in one. and it is really attractive, cut
on quite plain lines, edges being trimmed
with rows of colored stitchings. Paris is
introducing the new notion in linen and
shantung for warm days.
A generous employer is W. ,T. Wearne,
proprietor of Payne’s stores, which went up
in smoke on Sunday week. During the fort-
night it will take to shift into temporary
premises, he promised his 500 employees
their full pay, and at the end of the first
week a cheque for £l4BO was split amongst
them.
’The Automobile Club Ball was a well pat-
ronised and gay fixture of the week. Cars
parked at the Plaza, on St. Kilda’s espla-
nade : the run, on cabaret lines, drew about
1100 entries, and the management put on
special turns, as well as its clever ballerinas,
who literally descend from the roof. The
committee, with A. G. Harston as president
and Frank Hooper as secretary, furnished
carnival effects in balloons, caps and other
novelties, and between dances interest
centred upon the floral table decorations.
Picked out in the club’s colors, blue and
gold, small cars made, in violets, jonquils and
other blooms contested parking space with a
sumptuous supper. From out the cold, damp
night came the brightest of feminine glad
rags. Mrs. H'arston contrasted a black
velvet evening coat with a geranium-red
gown ; Margaret Ilarston’s frock was of
pastel-green tone; Mrs. Hooper’s choice of
raiment was fine brack lace and georgette.
The Alured Kelly couple, Mr. and Mrs. E. W.
Cox, the Stuart McKenzies, from Banana-
land’s capital, and the Edgar Dye couple,
with daughter Aubrey, cranked up in synco-
pated measure.
Professional arid amateur forces are being
linked at a matinee at ITis Majesty’s on
August 13 to aid the Lud Mayor’s fund
for the unemployed and the Women’s Hos-
pital appeal. Along with ballets of society
girls and small pupils of Jeannie Brenan.
dances arranged by Minnie Everett, and
songs by Amy Castles and Ada Reeve, two
short plays are to be put on by Mrs. Harold
Clapp and Mrs. George Bell respectively.
“Me and My Diary” is the one-act comedy
of Gertrude Jennings in which Mrs. Clapp
will appear. As Vivie Noel, daughter of the
late Judge Noel, of Bananaland, she ran
many a bright show in Brisbane, and later
did a bit on the boards with Tittell Brune.
Mrs. W. E. Cass, Joan Wisdom, Roma
Smith and Ninette Turck will also have
parts in “Me and My Diary.”
Dusolina Giannini is to take a dish of
tea at the home of the Consul-General for
U.S.A. and Mrs. Arthur Garrels on Friday,
and in the evening will smile upon the prof-
fered hospitality of the Melbourne Musir
Club. This gathering to honor the songbird
will be staged at the Lyceum Club under the
directing hand of Muriel Campbell, hon. sec.
of the M.M.C.
Members of the British Music Society
assembled at Miss Frances Osborne’s Toorak
home for their annual meeting. Miss
Osborne, a leading teacher of the piano, has
had a house in the Spanish Mission styie
built on a slope of Orrong-road. On one
side of the crazily flagged path is a low-
walled courtyard with bird-bath and minia-
ture trees in gay tubs against the green
doors of the music-room. The artistic-
interior has electric-light “candles” in
quaint wrought-iron sconces dangling from
low wooden beams, masses of wattle and blue-
gum foliage harmonising with the cretonne
window-draperies. The president, Thomas
Brentnall, announced that the B.M.S. had a
credit balance of £25, and that some of the
Gustav Holst works—the first instalment of
the gift promised by Mrs. Jimmy Dyer—had
arrived for the library. Excellent "was the
musical programme. Pianist Gladys Smith
played short pieces by early and modern
composers, baritone Harold Browning sang
folksongs, and a new- suite for violin and
piano by Arthur Hinton was rendered by
Connie Ziebell and Miss Smith from a copy
sent to Mr. Brentnall by the composer,
who is married to Catherine Goodson.
There was gathering of military at No. 9
Darling-street when Lt.-Col. J. A. Clar-
borough and officers of the Melbourne Uni-
versity Rifles were hosts at a dance. Mrs.
Clareborough, who helped her husband to
greet the arriving couple of hundred steppers,
wore a frock of pale green foundation, the
skirt being a froth of tulle frills blending
from the faintest to the deepest of the hue.


M
tt®
QUALITY
ni°
d
1
l um®
No. 306—£25
D 578 1
577
N °^ £B aes^SSE
No. 300—£20
No, 309 £3O
No. 307—£6
*
No. 304—£25
No. 305—£40
No. 303—£45
The Diamond .Rings illustrated* above
represent tke finest value offered, in
Australia. All tbe diamonds are set in
pure platinum by Drummond's rin&
experts. Money will be refunded if
not approved of. Illustrated Ring, Cata-
logue sent poSt free to any address.
WM.DRUMMOND G CO.
DIAMOND AND-PEARL SPECIALISTS~
344-346 COLLINS STREET
MELBOURNE
Worth While Technical Books
Listed by THE TECHNICAL BOOKSHOP—N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
Price. Postage.
Cement, Concrete and Bricks. A. Searle 30/- 1/3
Motor-car Upholstering. Plainly-written Book on fundamentals
of Motor-trimming, etc 12/6 9d.
faeat for Engineers. Treatise on Heat, with Special Regard to its
Practical Applications. Darling 16/- 1/-
Tables for Reinforced Concrete Floors and Roofs. R. Morgan 13/6 6d.
Aerobatics. Barber 13/6 6d.
Hoisting Machinery. Elements of Crane-construction, etc. Ele-
mentary Treatise. J. Horner 11/6 9d.
Book of the Light Car. Brown 10/- 6d.
Recipes for the Color, Paint, Varnish, Oil, Soap and Drysaltery
Trades , 13/6 9d.
Sheep and Wool Industry in Australia. Practical Handbook for
Sheepfarmers and Woolclassers. Smith .. . . 10/6 6d.
Ford Repairing. Modern Methods. Complete Manual for Ford
Repairmen. Pile 15/- 6d.
Marine Boiler Management and Construction. Treatise on Boiler
Troubles, Repairs, Corrosion, Fuels and Heat, etc.
Stromeyer 22/- 1/-
Model Electric Locomotives and Railways. Their Details and
Practical Construction. Greenly 7/6 Bd.
Model Railways. Their Design, Details and Practical Construc-
tion. Greenly 7/6 Bd.
Painter’s Cyclopaedia.—Adulteration of Paint, Blistering of
Paint, Brushes, Kalsomining, Carriage-painting, Oils and
Driers. By Maire 10/- lOd.
Concrete Products and Cast Stone. Manufacture and Uses.
H. Childe 6/6 6d.
Taxation under the Commonwealth and N.S.W. Income-tax Acts.
Baldwin, A. J., and Gunn, J. A. L 15/- 1/-
Modern Developments in Railway Signalling. Track-circuiting,
Power-signalling, Automatic-train Control. Tattersall ... 25/- lOd.
Studio Handbook. Letter and Design. Hand-lettered from Cover
to Cover. Welo 12/6 6d.
Stair-building and the Steel Square. Manual of Practical Instruc-
tion. Hodgson 5/- 4d.
Principles of Transrormer Design. Still 15/- 6d.
Gas- and Oil-engine Management. Guide for Users and Attend-
ants. Powis Bale 4/6 4d.
Engineers and Machinists’ Handbook. Complete Guide for
Turners, Fitters, Screw-cutters and all Machinists. Golding 4/6 4d.
Hints and Tips for Automobilists 5/6 4d.
Boat-building for Amateurs. Instructions for Designing and
Building Punts, Skiffs, Canoes, etc. Kemp 4/6 4d.
Electric Motor and Control Systems and Methods. By Horstmann 4/6 4d.
Electric Wiring. Handbook for Use of Wiremen and Students.
Clinton 4/6 4d.
Continuous Current Electrical Engineering. By Maccall 19/- 9d.
Electroplaters’ Handbook. Weston 7/6 4d.
Alternating Current. Theory, Practice, Diagrams. Horstmann 4/6 4d.
Motor-cycling. J. Wyatt 3/6 3d.
Flour Manufacture. Percy Amos 12/- 6d.
Easy Electrical Experiments, and How to Make Them. By
Dickinson 5/- 6d.
Electrical Measurements and Meter-testing. By Moreton 4/6 4d.
Railway Signal Engineering. Mechanical. By Lewis 17/6 9d.
Railroad Electrification and the Electric Locomotive. Outline of
Principles Involved in Railroad Electrification. By Manson 24/- 1/-
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
Technical Bookshop, Castlereagh and Market Streets, Sydney.
"9
i ,
i
'
Girlish Charm by
a Safe Method
Beautiful women have now an
opportunity to gain and preserve figure
loveliness in an entirely harmless, easy
way!
As a result of extensive research,
modern chemists have formulated this
highly effective reducing preparation —
Leichner 1001. Added to a warm bath,
doctors have testified to a reduction in
weight of as much as 31b. after a single
treatment. Already world famous,
Leichner Slim Figure and Beauty Bath
1001 is widely used by attractive
women. It is rejuvenating to the skin,
making it lily-white and restoring its
elasticity.
Should your chemist be unable to supply
Leichner 1001, fill in and post the
printed coupon. Try it once, and realise
your highest hopes for figure beauty!
LEICHNER 100 l
PRICE, 4/- from your Chemist or Leading Stores,
or from the Sole Australian Agents (post free 4/6).
LOHMANN & CO., LIMITED,
26*30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Postal Address: Box 804 G, G.P.Q., Sydney.
■Post this coupon to-day -
Lohmann & Co., Ltd., Box 804 G, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me, without further obligation, full particulars of this
wonderful reducer.
Name
Address


Under
Royal
Warrant
w
To H.M.
Kin 6
George V
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE <
CHeslleidsieck
mmwMU
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Li mltad
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGNE
Qiaricslleidsle*
Heims
PELLISSO N
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
rAtert Attention to Your Needs...
-AND THOUGHT UPON YOUR COMFORT
is the policy that has placed the Wentworth in the front
rank of Australian hotels. Efficiently managed under the
personal direction of Mrs. H. Maclurcan, it is the centre
of all smart gatherings and the chosen rendezvous of the
leaders in Society.
They appreciate, from personal experience, the real ser-
vice, the luxurious comfort and excellent cuisine for
which the Wentworth definitely sets a standard of
quality. Wire or Write for reservations .
Wentworth
Church Hill,
Sydney.
m
Monday io Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/-
Saturday, Late Gala Night
Special Table d’HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 12/6; Of
0 la carte, minimum, 12/6
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
The Ambassadors New Delightful
Dance Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing a.o
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
A WOMAN'
LETTER
Kayser
SHEER
CHIFFON
SILK
STOCKINGS
Just when the worst nip has gone from
the frosts and the midday sun hints at spring
around the corner, the 'tin has taken Sydney
by the nose. There has been such a run
on the hanky department of the big stores
that by the last hour of the last sale—if
the last sale ever has a last hour —-the useful
article threatens to be wiped out. The
North side seems to have got the worst of
it, and the North Shore Hospital closed its
visiting list quite early in the epidemic.
But every hospital in and about the city
reported nurses and patients down with the
nuisance. The civic authorities issued pam-
phlets telling the burgesses how to avoid
influenza. But by tin; time they were out
of the press, citizens were feeling the full
force of the blow. Health-officer Dr. Purdy,
among the other preventives, recommended
surfing. And now we won’t know whether
it’s really a surf or a laugh that he’s pre-
scribing.
But it isn't all ours. Some country towns
have found the little devil in a still worse
mood. Dr. Evatt and his wife went
motoring, through the law vacation, and
when they had got well past the Queensland
border the lady became so seriously ill that
a special nurse was sent for urgently. She
hopped in a ’plane at Sydney first thing in
the morning, said how-d’you-do to Brisbane
at a few minutes after noon, and was taking
her patient’s temperature in Toowoomba by
two o’clock.
And there’s been more than ’flu to keep
the doctors busy and run the nurses off their
pins. (On a day last week one of those
useful nurse-centres had 30 calls after its last
available Nightingale had thrown her duds
into her bag and fled to her latest job.) Wogs
of exceptional variety and virulence have
been afield, and trivial wounds have
been followed by quite serious consequences.
Which was why the rain that commenced to
pelt in Sydney at the usual hour for going
afield was more welcomed than it would have
been six Sundays out of seven. All the wogs
surely haven't lifebelts.
Music, members of Parliament, Judges,
torchbearers of the Higher Education,
befurred wraps (none handsomer than that
worn by Keith Smith’s lady), picture frocks,
social butterflies and women with a purpose
in life —handsome Ruth Beale for one—were
the ingredients in the last of the three big
parties the vice-regal de Chairs have staged
this winter. Like Edison, Lady de Chair has
done much to train the social ear to recognise
Chopin, Scarlatti, Beethoven and such com-
posers. The week-end party did not fall
short of previous records, but supplied a
menu of works so impossible to hum that you
knew at once their writers were front rankers.
Clear-voiced Lucille Bruntnell slipped in
some charming bits of Christopher Robin and
other A. A. Milne attractions between the
music, for which Dagmar Roberts, Gwen
Selva, Clement Williams and Jules van Der
Klei were responsible. The Vice-Reine
wore the picture frock of spreading blue
ninons described very honorably by this
Letter on the occasion of the last big listen-
ing-in at Government House. Mrs. George
Vi vers wore her period black taffetas much
befrilled. The fascinating widow of Leslie
Walford had her twilight grey ninon ensemble
collared and cuffed in grey fox. Absinthe-
green velvet purred about Mrs. Frank Hew-
son. The blonde good looks of Justice Langer
Owen’s wife were enhanced by softly-draped
black laces. Another handsome frocker was
Mrs. Stuart Osborne in translucent green
satin.
The big dining-room of the Arts Club was
packed for the lunch, and when it was
announced by Enzed Government-Resident
W. R. Blow that there were 32,000 of his
countrymen in this State a sound like a
haka echoed through Pitt-street. Well, of
course, this being a company of Enzedders,
there were murmured conversations concern-
ing a certain little outpost’s superiority in
accent, in brains, in whitebait, in beauty,
in manner, in oysters, in flounders and in
hafcy welfare. When the plates were pushed
hack, the poetry came on with the coffee.
Dr. Purdy followed up Molly Howden’s
with an ode of his own, and then, to show
that his Pegasus was in the race, John
Fuller read his epic on Mt. Egmont. After
which Dr. Truby King got down to the
object for which the association had fed
him, and talked the Plunket System.
Can’t women keep a secret, and can men?
This Letter, which has shingled hair, has
known for over a year that the Molly
1 lowde.n who writes so charmingly in the
Woman’s Mirror is the daughter of Maori-
land’s baby-knight Truby King. It was told
in confidence. At the first party given by
the almost brand-new Enzed Association in
Sydney, the doctor, who was the guest of
honor, let the whole roomful into his
daughter’s secret and also read some of her
verses to them. The ones he picked were,
of course, hallelujahs to “God’s Own Coun-
try.” but even so are real poetry.
Mary King (Molly Howdon) is a grace-
ful. sonsy lass, health oozing out of every
pore, as indeed it should, for on her was
practised every theory the doctor had about
growing a healthful baby. Her school days
were spent in an open-air school—and that
in Dunedin!
The little brothers are all right. Although
Big Brother, owing to ’flu and one thing and
another, didn’t turn up in vast numbers at
the Ambassadors last week, his ticket was
bought and paid for, so over £2OO is. ex-
pected to strengthen the movement’s sinews.
The Governor and Lady de Chair went to
this frolic, which was the smartest in a
dull and heavy week. General Anderson was
in company with the vice-regals, and his
daughter Betliia, in flowered chiffons, host-
essed a small party. Lady do Chair, in
roseate chiffons, draped and spattered with
diamonds, a coronet flashing like a miniature
Aurora Australis, radiated her all’s-well-with-
the-world smile, while his Ex., as usual,
might have been a model for tooth-paste and
soap advertisements. No State could ever
have had a more shiningly-clean Governor
than ours, and this Letter wasn’t surprised
to hear a young mother admonish her small
offspring the other day to wash his ears
and scrub his nails, “and look like the
Governor!” The Allard knight and his lady,
the civic Garlicks, deputy-president Mrs. G.
C. Berge, and secretary Ronald Duncan bade
the party from Government House welcome.
The Allard lady cloaked her black-and-silver
frocking in ruby-red velvet, collared with
grey Arctic fox. Another of the best-dressed
was Mrs. Penfold Hyland. Ernest Watt
brought a party, and Doreen and Joan Hig-
gins, the one in blue, the other in geranium-
red georgettes, were among the dancers.
The _9-t.o-4.80 gas restrictions have been
again in force, because, with the northern
coalminers still on strike, the merry meter
showed the consumption of gas in and about
this city to have broken al] records in. the
history of the Australian Gas Light Co.
But that doesn’t mean extravagance—the
quality of the gas is so poor that the family
joint, even without potatoes, can’t be roasted
with the normal quantity. Coal, gas, unem-
ployment, taxation and high rents are set-
ting the housekeeper a problem that Euclid
himself might stagger under.
When good-looking Freda McGhee, who is
pictured here by Monte Luke, stepped into the
eighteenth-century costume worn by Miran-
doli n a, the
Florence inn-
keeper of Car-
los Goldoni’s
comedy “Mine
Hostess” at
the T u rret
Theatr e,
she added
another suc-
cess to her list.
Freda is a
pr o duct of
Sydney Girls’
High, in whose
dramatic per-
formances she
starred; later
enter taining
with the Mag-
pies at Rand-
wick Hospital,
the Rawson
Institute for
Seamen and
other institu-
tions, she supplemented her schoolday tri-
umphs. For a while she played with the
11. IV. Varna dramatic company; then
Duncan Macdougall, of the Playbox, cast
her for the glamorous Italian lady for whom
a bank cashier embezzles a vast sum of
money in Kaiser’s drama “From Morn Till
Midnight.” But she achieved her greatest
success with the Playbox as Roxie Hart, in
Mauriue Watkin's “Chicago.” Kuring-gai
Operatic Society audiences have also made
her acquaintance—she was “Our Miss Gibbs”
when that society played at various North
Shore suburbs early this year.
The cheques for the hospitals that benefit
by the Fire Brigade Queen Competition
were handed out last week by Sir Dudley
de Chair. The rally, which had lured morn
claimants than ever did the throne of Scot-
land, raised £115,000 for the State’s human
repair-shops; the Government is pledged to
add pound for pound. The glad distribution
took place, in the Fire Brigades headquarters
in Castlereagli-street, and was enlivened by
a clash at arms, in which the firemen, dis-
guised as Japanese swordsmen and such like,
provided thrills for Minister for Health
Dr. Arthur, president T. J. Smith, of the
Fire Brigade Board, and other interested
people.
The rooms of the Women’s Country Club
had an animated look one afternoon last
week in honor of Mrs. J. T. Sargent. The
lady, who was one of the club’s foundation
members and has for some time been also
a vice-president, was making her farewells,
as she and her husband are about to
make their home at Gulgong. The club did
her proud. President Mrs. George Irvine
presented her with flowers, and a special
programme of music was arranged for the
occasion. Marsh Little, famous for his war-
time “Boys of the Dardenelles,” sang a
new ditty of his own—“My Wishes for You.”
Slim Naomi Waters, who was acting a
minor part in the Goldoni comedy at the
Turret Theatre last week, proved herself a
creature of courage. Naomi preceded one
of her entrances by falling down a flight
of stairs and crashing on her shoulder. She
went on and did her bit, and then quietly
fainted in the dressing-room. A hastily-
summoned doctor found that a small bone
was broken. The following night Naomi
appeared with her arm in a -sling. There
was no understudy for her part, and already
the cast had been twice upset by ’flu, of
which director Don Finlay was also a victim.
Just in case any of its members should
hear the wolf of sickness or hard times
growling at the door, the Eighth Aus-
tralian Field Ambulance is building up a
fund. The first nugget was dug out of a
dance at the
W entwo rth
last week, and
M r s. T o m
•Ross, the
attractive sub-
ject of this
Judith Flet-
cher picture,
was president
of the commit-
tee. The dance
was one of the
week’s out-
standing suc-
cesses. T h e
menus wore
inscribed “We
Are a Rag-
time Army,”
an d through
the pages
cavorted the
soup, the lamb,
the vegetables
and sweets sketched as Diggers. Old war-
time songs were played, and on the table
at which Mrs. Ross and her husband (who
is secretary of the Corps) presided, kliaki-
clad stretcher-bearers surrounded a stretcher
of wattle and marigolds and a model of
'•‘Retaliation Farm.” Mrs. E. Herford was
the secretary and Mrs. D. L. Fry treasurer
of a hard-working committee.
Sydney grieved to hear that Jean Gerardy,
whose ’cello sang to a crowded Town ITall
about six years ago, had died, all too young,
at Spa. The first in Sydney to learn the
news was concert-manager E. ,T. Gravestock,
under whose guardianship the famous musi-
cian had toured Australia.
Remember the story of the man who called
on that famous old firm of London lawyers,
Messrs. Jones, Briggs, Son, Smith, Brown
Brothers and Robertson, and found that
there was no longer any Jones, Briggs,
Smith, Brown or Robertson in the business?
A couple of years ago Dr. George Sly called
it a day and retired from the old firm of
Sly and Russell. A year later brilliant
Harry Russell died, after a stroke that laid
him abed for three months. Now C. W.
Schrader, whom these events had left senior
partner, has died suddenly, after just on 40
years’ service with the firm—a great man at
commercial law was this fine, upstanding
glutton for work. But you don’t catch these
old firms unprepared; S. McHutchison,
whom Dr. Sly lured from the Federal Attor-
ney-General’s Department, still leads a small
army of partners.
Kathleen Robinson, whose father died
last April leaving £210,603 in N. S. Wales,
becomes one of the State’s great heiresses. In
addition to a bequest of £20,000, she is
to have the income from a trust fund that
runs w r ell past £lOO,OOO. The former owner
of Oakhurst station left generous legacies
to Charity. The Burnside Homes benefit by
£3000; the Presbyterian Church gets £6000;
aged and infirm Presbytei’ian ministers in
Ireland a friendly £5OOO, and £5OO is thrown
into the Salv’army’s ring.
If you are in want of a corset to
fit snugly under your new evening frock,
order one of the new garments that is bras-
siere, corset and frilly knickers all in one.
They are built of fine Milanese or glove
silk, are boneless and are moulded to the
line of the figure. Made, the expert in
charge says, to suit every sort of figure—the
pocket doesn’t matter these days.
This Letter listened to a deputation of
three little shop-assistants the other morning.
It was an interesting tale they told.' They
had been working at a couple of small frill-
shops—two at one, the third at another—
and one had closed and the other was
into liquidation. And it was all the bh
shop’s fault. Offering models and near-
models, it was able to make such profits on
some lines that it could sell the balance for
almost nothing; but the small store which
didn’t have a clientele that could afford
the dizzy prices, missed the big profits and
therefore couldn’t afford to make a loss on
anything. So there they were—knocked
out top arid bottom ! Just what this Letter
can do about it it doesn’t know; but tin-
story may explain why the “To Let’’ sign
adorns so many hundreds of windows in
Sydney.
Already the talkies have meant the walkies
for 200 orchestral players, and violinists and
pianists are weary with seeking other shops
Not only are the picture-shows being served
with canned music, but many of the restau-
rants are now doing without the music once
thought indispensable at afternoon-tea. For
these performers, too, a niche is as easy to
find as a needle in a bundle of proverbs.
The result as far as one young widow is
concerned is the selling up of her little home
and going back with her small daughter to
the rooming-house life from which hard
work and thrift had carried her 18 months
ago. Necessity may be the mother of inven-
tion ; but invention can be the father of
dire necessity.
Dr. Mary Booth fired a last shot before
she sailed by the Largs Bay. As chieftainess
of the Anzac Fellowship of Women she led a
meeting of protest against the building of the
promised Anzac Memorial in Hyde Park.
“Altogether unsuitable” was the unanimous
verdict. But Dr. Mary of the apple-blossom
cheeks took away pleasanter memories than
that meeting. There was the Fellowship’s
party in her honor wrapped around the pre-
sentation of an extensively fitted travelling-
bag, in addition to an immense round of
private farewells.
Dear Margaret Preston, as invigorating
as a spring morning in a forest of gums, had
this Letter’si attention and most of its
applause for her speech at the Arts and
Crafts’ talk the other afternoon. The society
has started on a course of lecturettes on
art in its applied forms. Last week’s party
was a mel6e of billy-brew and discussion of
design, and Margaret Preston’s well-
expressed views on Australian flora and
aboriginal design made a deep impression.
Their primitive simplicity and originality
were recommended as supplying something
art-buyers could not get in other parts of
the world. President Florence Sulman talked
of the revival of craftwork in Europe, and
Eirene Mort was another who dropped cul-
tured pearls of experience into the ears of
listeners. The party was held in the
Women’s Club ; and a display of beauty in
leather and linen and in brass and china
suffused the drawing-room with grace and
color.
Miss Sabia Kennedy, whose wedding with
the Hon. Henry Wellesley has just taken
place in London, is a daughter of the Irish
sportsman who married one of the Lums-
daine sisters, of Sydney, and bred The
Tetrarch, Erin’s best-known horse. Mrs.
Kennedy and her sister Mrs. Harry Whiting,
of Melbourne, were at “52” a few months
ago, on a visit to their mother.
Mr. Wellesley is a brother of Earl Cowley
and is related to the Carington, Loftus and
Nevill families, all of which have had repre-
sentatives at Sydney Government House in
the past. ITis father was a crack steeple-
chase rider, and he has done a good deal in
that line himself. His best man was Michael
Beary, a fellow-irishman, who. though a
professional jockey, figures regularly at the
parties given by London’s Bright Young
Things.
A flapper friend made her entrance a few
weeks ago into the world of commerce.
Yesterday she complained bitterly that she
found it impossible to save. “But what do
you want to save for, Yvonne? You live at
home, and you are only seventeen.” Oh yes,
but all the other girls in her office saved some-
thing every week, and lots of them were
younger. “Saving for their trousseau?"
asked her aunt of 35, w r ho, of course, has
the pre-war mind. “Trousseau! Good
Heavens, no !” said Yvonne. “They’re saving
up to buy a trip round the world when
they’re thirty.”
The potato has been having a hot time of
it; for while the Housewives have unceas-
ingly roasted it, it has just as steadily
found itself in a stew.
That the cow is adored in the Murwillum-
bah district was proved at a recent wedding
when the cake was decorated with 15 of
them. Both families had made their money
out of Strawberry, of course.
August 2, rain or shine, will find Miss
Boswell in her old dugout under St. James s,
begging for the poor. Men’s clothes, especi-
ally boots, are urgently needed.
While the daily papers continue to de-
plore the prevalence of suicide, the Womens
Columns undo the good work by featuring
Hanging Cupboards.


Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
il’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tait. j
HER MAJESTY’S: THE DESERT
SONG.
ROYAL: BREWSTER’S MILLIONS.
CRITERION: LAFF THAT OFF.
PALACE: NICOLA.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
A NIGHT OUT.
ROYAL:
DRACULA.
ING ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE FACE AT THE WINDOW.
fIOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
11 MELBOURNE.
FOR AN EXTENDED SEASON.
The Sensational Sound Picture
SUBMARINE.
THE ROYAL AGRICULTURAL
' SOCIETY OF VICTORIA.
Grand Annual Exhibition.
NINE DAYS.
THURSDAY, 19th, to SATURDAY, 28th
SEPTEMBER, 1929.
Comprehensive display of Stock,
Agricultural Produce and Industrial
Exhibits.
60 Acres of Intense Interest.
Liberal programme of prizes amounting
to over £BOOO (including champion
prizes of Australia).
Competitive Entries (except Ring Events) Close
SATURDAY, AT NOON, AUGUST 17.
Entries for Arena Events close SATURDAY, AT
NOON, AUGUST 31.
Member’s Subscription, Covering Badge and Two
Ladies’ Tickets and General Privileges, £l/10/-
per annum.
Life Member’s Subscription, £l5/15/-
Extra Ladies’ Tickets, 10/6 each.
Prize Schedules, Entry Forms, etc., on application.
HENRY SCHWIEGER,
Secretary.
Note Address: Temple Court, 9th Floor, 422 Collins
Street, Melbourne, C.l
£njoj ihe renowned
CANADIAN y
PACIFIC.
service
»
*Jr
\ 2
***W"":
°^\ G *■*.«£ s^V 6
<& X&\\ 0 A^v c , e 5. AV^
• &^?®Sy&jjs v «
\o fl A\P J * c> v ~**l
V> e ** v
C!&*<£■ . rifc' -.*& .*
***
ŵ
The Worlds greatest towel system
THE PATRIOT
■ DIRECT MEDIUM T 9 WOMEN J
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
If auy illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
ẁ
Missing Friends.
TONES, JAMES SYDNEY, eldest sou of
J late J. C. Jones, Mt. Keira, please com-
municate J. W. RUSSELL. Solicitor, Wol-
longong. Information liis benefit.
RE SARAH FEATHERSTONE—De-
ceased.-—Will Jane Moore (sister of
the above-named Sarah Featlierstone, late
of Hobart, in Tasmania, Married Woman),
communicate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Hobart.
A LFRED STEWART, formerly of Clunes,
near Lismore, or his next-of-kin, are re-
quested to communicate with HALLIDAY
AND BUDD, Solicitors, Murwillumbah.
THERE ARE MANY GRADES OF
CRAB, but
CAPTAIN CRAB
SPECIALLY SELECTED
TAKES COMMAND OVER ALL
ASK YOUR GROCER FOR FREE RECtFESOO*
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Center of Queenslands
Distiagushed Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Mayoress Jolly arranged an entertainment
for the Creche and Kindergarten at the Town
Ilall. The Mayor introduced Colonel
Cameron, who has been president of the,
committee for eight years. Miss Bedford
said a word for the babies, and Mrs. A. E.
Moore was' amongst the throng.
Maoriland had her day at the Auchen-
flower Bowling Club, when Brisbane bowlers
played against metropolitan clubs. The
Maori welcome, “Koutou,” was called to you
from the pavilion. Dominion emblems and
kiwis adorned the walls, and the Maorilanders
wore feathers in their hat and fern leaves in
their coats. A number of the All Blacks were
on the scene. Mr. and Mrs. A. Powell
received the guests.
For Valda Ruthning, Mrs. Stuart Johnson
had a bridge party at Beresford, her Green-
slopes home. Oriental lanterns and flags and
bright balloons fringed the verandahs. Mauve
and gold decked. the dining-room, and
streamers with lucky birds flew overhead,
as the hostess, in Alice-blue jersey with
touches of Oriental broideries, presented the
guest of honor, who is one of our brides-
eleet, with Toowoomba violets, in mauve
tulle.
Another bride was feted when Mrs. W. J.
1 >oak had a party at Rowe’s for her daughter
Rose, who is soon to go altarwards with Mr.
O. Holland. An E-shaped table in the ban-
quet hall was decked in pink tulle and pink
sweet-pea. Mrs. Doak’s black georgette was
mounted on saxe-blue. Rose wore ivory
crepe de Chine and lace with a pink hat.
Ellen Doak chose azalea-pink jersey with
fur, and a brown felt hat.
Dr. Sidnie Manton addressed the Lyceum
Club on the Barrier Reef, and described her
operations, wearing a diving helmet, four
fathoms deep. She suggested it would pay
to “farm” the 1300 miles of coral reef off
the coast of Australia. Sir Matthew Nathan
had been pf the same opinion. Freda Bage,
in saxe-blue and grey, was hostess on a back-
ground of Iceland poppies and gumtips.
Dr. Constance Ellis passed through on the
Marella from the Pan-Pacific Science Con-
gress in Java. She has been inspecting hos-
pitals and laboratories at Buitenzorg, and
acquiring the latest details on malaria and
beri-beri.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
There was a good attendance at the
Tattersall’s Club meeting at Morphettville.
The State Exes, came with their son and
the Hon. Mrs. F. Barry. Fur coats, tweed
coats and choker furs were the habiliments
most in evidence.
The musical comedy “Juanita” opened on
Saturday night to a crowded house, and should
be assured of a good week’s run. Minda
Home and the Children’s Hospital will bene-
fit. There are some tuneful vocal numbers,
and a series of ballets that will demonstrate
the stage-dancing ability of the Sholto Bow-
man College. Violet George plays the name
part, and her soprano voice blends finely
with that of the lover (Reginald Harris)
in some delightful duets. Thelma Baulder-
stone has the dramatic role of the Spanish
girl Inez. Ray Walsh is the producer, and
takes the part of Don Pedro.
The University Ball on July 31 has one
innovation; it is to be held in the new
Refectory Hall after having taken place in
the Elder Hall for years past. There will
be. the usual crop of debutantes, who are
being trained for presentation by Mrs. E. W.
Holden. Some of them have already made
their appearance at fashionable dances, for
the debutante of to-day is apt to make com-
ing-out a gradual affair.
The comedy “Hay Fever,” which the
Repertory Theatre put on last week, had an
enthusiastic reception. Dr. Eugene McLaugh-
lin, who recently returned from England,
undertook the stage settings, and for the
first time in history the theatre showed an
artistic background.
Mayor Bonython’s second year of office is
drawing to a close, and the city is looking
round for a suitable successor. For 20 years
the Mayor of Adelaide, if Australian born,
has always been an old Prince Alfred or St.
Peter’s College boy; and Bonython’s old
P. sehoomate Masonic-secretary Glover
is the most likely successor. But if the
school precedent is discarded, then the popular
choice will be Flint, Ilindley-street hard-
ware man, head of a half-century-old busi-
ness. Now that the mayoral allowance has
been increased to £1250. men of moderate
means can take on the job.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The Alliance Francaise held a dinner at
the Savoy. French Consul Michelides pre-
sided, and Belgium’s official representative,
M. Antoine, was also present. Afterwards
there was dancing. Madame Antoine
twirled her green georgettes; and Madame
de Latour shimmered in black. Mrs. Mac-
kellar Hall’s glowing floral skirt was worn
with ciel-blue corsage; Mrs. R. Q. Cameron
chose pillar-box red ninons and Molly Ma-
hood sunset taffetas. Mrs. John Prevost
was regal in black, and Molly Beck sported
turquoise-blue mariette encrusted with
crystal.
Presswomen gave a farewell dinner to
Miss Jessie Macgregor, whose picture was
in last week’s Bulletin. She is off to Mel-
bourne, there to join the Manunda on its
trip to Cairns. Mrs. Pelloe received her
guests in a becoming blue gown touched with
white. Mrs. Chase, supported by Mrs. Pel-
ham Webb, toasted the guest of honor, who,
incidentally, carried off the prize competition
of the evening.
Mr. and Mrs. Braliam —he has been editor
of the West Australian for several years—
leave shortly for London. They were offici-
ally farewelled at Parliament House by
President Kir wan, of the Legislative Council.
Among the speakers who wished the globe-
trotters bon voyage was ex-Premier James
Mitchell. Mrs. Braham made her farewells
in hyacinth-figured foulard, with a close-
fitting bronze Baku hat; Mrs. Geoffrey Mc-
Intyre poured the tea that cheers. The
veteran Edward Wittenoom and his lady
were there, and so was General Hobbs’s
consort. Mrs. Iveall and Mrs. R. Sandover,
Mr. and Mrs. J. J. Holmes, Mr. and Mrs.
McWhae, Mr. and Mrs. Colin Ednie-Browli,
the Vernon Hammersleys and Miss D. Fer-
guson were among others who attended.
Seating accommodation was strained to
the limit at the Piccadilly ballroom for the
re-opening of Sheridan’s cabaret. The band,
headed by Chas. Sheridan, jum, dispensed
their usual capital music. The Basil Bruces,
Ken Bantock, Mr. and Mrs. Percy Sutton
and Miss May Salter were some who took
along large parties.
Ballroom decorations have been remark-
able this season. At the Uni. engineering
students’ dance a huge revolving sun radi-
ated colored lights from its innumerable
facets, and an active volcano set amidst
snowy mountain-peaks emitted favors among
the dancers, while gum saplings round the
walls were interspersed with illuminated
carved melon heads.
At the Royal Automobile Club Ball search-
lights revolved from the eyes of two giant
mechanics in the club patrol uniform, and
miniature motor-cars directed their head-
lights into the hall. Tawny poppies, Ger-
aldton wax-flowers and jonquils were every-
where.
Back in Perth after an extended tour are
Mr. and Mrs. Geoff Mclntyre. By the same
boat returned Mrs. Wilson Haffendon. Mrs.
Rosenstamer and her two daughters leave
this week for Honolulu.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The visit of the M.L. squadron was the
event of the week and the junketings were
varied and hearty. There were at-homes
and drives to various beauty spots, a
Mayoral entertainment at the Springs,
dances, massed band concerts and hospitality
for the A.B.’s. in uniform. Before leaving
port, the Royal Marines of the squadron,
under Captain Bowring, placed a wreath at
the foot of the monument of Governor
Collins in St. David’s Park, that vivid old
personality having himself been a Lieut.-Col.
in the Marines.
This intriguing profile belongs to Frank
Bowden, son
of the F. I*.
Bowdens, who
has recently
won his Ph.D.
degree at
C ambridge
University, an
honor which
lias fallen to
only one other
Tasmanian
Dr. A. L. Mc-
Aulay in
recent years.
Frank Bow-
den took his
B.Sc. and his
M.Sc. degrees
at the Tas.
University,
and is the first
Tasmanian
scholar to win
the 1851
science scholarship. _ He won the Orient Co.'s
travelling scholarship in 1926.
The doors of Government House, not very
often opened, swung wide enough to admit
about 300 guests at the at-home given in
honor of the visiting squadron. His Ex.
and Margaret O’Grady, with Commodore
G. T. Swabey, received at the entrance to
the ballroom. Margaret’s frock of ring velvet
in a lovely shade of midnight-blue attrac-
tively set off her English fairness of coloring.
The banquet hall below-stairs and the upper
dining-room were set apart for supper and
casual refreshments, and here and there
bridge tables beckoned to those who did not
care to dance and were not equal to the pros-
pect of a whole evening of conversation. The
night was intensely cold, so those who footed
it to the cheery music of Marcus Trappe’s
orchestra had the best of it, though roaring
tires had been provided wherever it was
possible to have them.
Margaret O’Grady, assisted by a com-
mittee of some of our most popular girls,
Nancy Giblin, Helen Gray, Rhona Eyons
and Betty Sole, seized the chance of secur-
ing an extra number of dancing men among
the Maoriland contingent, and organised a
most successful dance in aid of the Alexan-
dria Hospital. It was held at the Conti-
nental the night before the squadron sailed.
. The C. W. Grants, with two daughters
and a friend, Marmie Brownell, have had
an interesting trip to China, Japan and Java.
AT THE BACK OF THE NORTH WIND.
Darwin.
Died last week, here at Darwin, Captain
Edwards, who has been intimately connected
with the shipping of the port for nearly 50
years. As a nautical surveyor, a pearling
master, a mail-carrier and a cattle-shipper
Captain Edwards did his bit for this outpost
of Australia. He was 76.
The Victoria League welcomed Federal
Ministerial visitors in the Soldiers’ Hall.
Among the guests, besides the Minister for
Home and Territories, were Mr. Colin Sin-
clair, vice-president of the N.S.W. Graziers’
Association ; Captain Murray : Professor and
Mrs. Clarke, from Harvard University (the
Professor is engaged on marine zoological
research) 11. G. Nelson, 4-M.11.R. for the
Territory; Bishop Davies, of Carpentaria;
Captain Holden and Mechanic Taylor, of
the Canberra aeroplane.
Mr. Livingstone, of the .Sydney University,
is at present in Darwin, collaborating with
Professor Clarke _in collecting specimens of
tropical marine life.


w
The New
MEXICAN
(Reg. No. 4322)
Riding Boot
32/6
PAIR
Features a patent two
fold Strap top to fit
closely at ankle—gusset
Hdes to prevent sand and
grass seeds getting into Boot.
Low Heels, pointed toe*.
In Tan Calf and Black
Wallaby —All Sizes.
Mail to Desk “SB” stating Size
PIKE
BROTHERS LIMITED
In Queen Street, Brisbane
ŵ
Food
' / Trad* mask.
Write for booklet to ; —BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.. MANCHESTER, Eng.
Better health
in old age
The imperfect digestion of food
is a frequent cause of under
nourishment.
A nightly cup of Benger’s Food
greatly improves the general
health. It is most easily
digested and very nourishing.
From a Nurse: —
“My father, who is old, has your food
every day. We always think the cup he
takes at bedtime has a most soothing effect.”
rnr
After
Smoking!
It is always
good to take the
"Allenburys” Gly-
cerine and Black
Currant Pastilles.
They sooth an irri-
tated throat and relieve
dryness of the mouth.
‘Allenburys’
Glycerine &
Black Currant
PASTILLES^
THE QUARTERMASTER.
THIS IS THE £500 FIRST-PRIZE NOVEL “A HOUSE IS BUILT,” BY FLORA ELDERSHAW AND MARJORIE BARNARD,
ABRIDGED BY “THE BULLETIN” FOR SERIAL PUBLICATION.
Illustrated by NORMAN LINDSAY.
CHAPTER XIX ( Continued ).
JAMES saw the figures of the tender
painted across his eyelids, and drawing
towards him a sheet of paper that was
lying on the table, he copied them upon it.
Somewhere in the house a door banged.
Laurel went to the door and listened.
“Papa has come home,” she said. “You
can’t stay here, James. As soon as he goes
into his study you must slip out.”
She folded the paper in her hands without
looking at it.
“Now do you believe I would give you
anything?” he whispered eagerly.
“Yes,” she said with an enigmatic smile.
“Yes, I believe now. You must go, James,
quickly.”
“When shall f see you again?”
“I don’t know, soon—l will make an
opportunity. Only go now.”
He went down the great stairway, and the
servant who had let him in opened the door
in silence and he went out.
Laurel dragged along the passage to her
father’s study and tapped on the door.
“Come in!” he shouted, and “What’s
this?” as she handed him a folded slip of
paper.
“It’s the Hydes’ tender for the Red
Star contract. I said I could get it.”
He looked from the paper to her. “By
God! How did you do it?”
“Oh,” she said, wearily, “I warned him,
and then I asked him straight out.”
“You did, eh? I’m much obliged. I’ll
give you a bonus if I pull off the contract.”
“No!” she cried with sudden passion,
and leaving him without another word
went sobbing to her room.
CHAPTER XX.
Betrayal.
Realisation came to James in the night.
It came gradually, unfolding leaf by leaf
as his emotions subsided. By morning he
had only a slender hope left. He would
go to Laurel and ask her for the paper
back. It was still possible that she had
heard of the contract by chance and had
only demanded the figure to satisfy her
pride. His reason told him that this was
unlikely, but he clung despairingly to the
thread of hope through the long and
agonising night.
As early as he dared he stood upon the
Franklins’ doorstep. A forbidding servant
tried to turn him away. “Miss Laurel is
not down yet,” he kept repeating.
“Tell her that I am here and the matter
is urgent.”
The servant conferred with another, and
one of them went upstairs with the message.
After what seemed an eternity, Laurel
came down, a blue dressing-gown trimmed
with white fur wrapped round her. She
looked white and exhausted.
“What is it?” she asked.
“The paper, Laurel—give it back to me!
I was mad.”
She shook her head. “You were mad.
but it’s too late now.”
“You mean—your father?”
She nodded. James turned wildly to the
door.
“Where is he?”
“It’s no good. You know it wouldn’t
be any use.”
He turned on her in a fury. “You betrayed
me. You stole the secret from me when
I was soft with love of you.”
“Listen to me!” she cried with a passion
equal to his own. “I’m not ashamed of
what I did. Your grandfather injured my
father. He attacked his honor and lost
him reputation and money. I have only
made you pay it back with your credit and
money. I warned you.; I told you that
you could not separate me from my family.
It’s now between families. Do you under-
stand?”
“Yes,” he said, looking at her stupidly.
“Yes, it is quite plain now.”
He went away. He knew now that there
was a pain that bit deeper than love, and
it was disgrace.
Seven days went by. Each day was a
huge distorted mass of time casting a
grotesque shadow upon eternity. He was
utterly wretched. He thought that he would
confess to his grandfather, to his father,
to anyone who would listen, but he was
afraid, not of their anger or their reproaches,
but of something that would be broken
for ever the moment he spoke.
On the seventh day he went into the
office and saw the Quartermaster’s rueful
face.
“We’ve lost the Red Star contract, James;
Franklin’s got it. I don’t know how he
beat our figure. He couldn’t beat it. He’s
just cut out his profits altogether. It’s
a big disappointment.”
James muttered something. He knew
now that he had hoped for a miracle. The
loss of this gleam of hope left his heart
in darkness. He could not endure the store.
He noticed that the sky was dark and
stormy and that a wind was springing up.
A pulse in his brain beat like a tiny drum
in response to the gathering storm.
Firenze was wrapped in noonday quiet.
James thought what a happy house it wa's,
and kind. Adela was alone. She rang
for lunch to be brought him on a tray, and
he ate it, sitting with her by the fire. Mother
and son were seldom alone together now,
She had long since given up asking ques-
tions about himself, and she talked to him
now as if he were some friend who had
come to sit with her rather than as her son
whom she knew to be in trouble.
With every moment James felt quieter
and happier. Tragedy was somehow incon-
gruous in this quiet room. He thought, “I
have sinned, I have repented and I shall
be forgiven.” He could trust his father
and his grandfather to forgive him. It
was a hard, strange notion that he had had,
that what he had done would break the
bonds that held him to his family. They
could never desert him who was so much
more than their flesh. He looked at his
mother, who was still beautiful, with her
smooth open brow and her shining hair;
she looked so kind; he thought with almost
a pang that he had never trusted her
enough. He would tell her now and she
would help him. It would be easier than
to tell the others.
“Mamma.”
“Yes, dear?” She raised her eyes and
looked at him, waiting. It was unexpectedly
hard.
“Mamma” There was a quick step
in the passage and Adela’s eyes escaped him.
She was looking towards the door.
“Lionel has come home early,” she said.
“I wonder if he has had his lunch?”
“Mamma,” he began desperately. “I
must”
Lionel stood in the doorway.
James went out into the garden, where
the first drops of rain were falling. The
gusty wind excited him. His mood had
hardened and cleared. The thought was
growing in his mind that he need not con-
fess at all—that, now the harm was done,
confession would only make it immortal.
His grandfather would never suspect him
of treachery, and he would atone by a life
of devotion and rectitude. Why should it
be allowed to darken his life, to darken all
their lives?
He wanted to rush away from the whole
business, to pile days and miles and thoughts
between him and it. It filled him now with
nausea rather than shame. He wanted only
to be rid of it, to bury it quickly.
Suddenly full of life, he could not remain
idle. The wind called to him and he ran
down the long, sloping garden to take out
his boat. He felt in his imagination the
. exhilaration of driving before the storm,
the joy of the wind and the stinging clean-
ness of the rain.
Lionel sat with his mother by the fire.
When she looked at him she smiled and
he smiled back at her.
“Why did James come home early?”
Lionel asked.
“I don’t know,” she answered. “I think
he is worried about something.”
“Laurel Franklin probably. She hasn’t
spoken to him since the quarrel, as far as
I know.”
Adela raised her brows. “It is just as
well, then.”
Lionel got up to draw the curtains and
stood a moment looking over the river.
“Some fool has taken a sailing-boat out
in the storm,” he said.
Adela rose and stood beside him, and
they watched the little triangle of white
sail tossing on the dark water. They went
back to the fire.
At six o’clock, searching for his brother,
Lionel brought back the news that the skiff
was gone. At seven there seemed nothing
to do but to sit down to dinner. The
Quartermaster took a robust view—the boy
could manage his boat, he was a strong
swimmer, and, bless my soul! he wasn’t a
ten-year-old. William was annoyed. He
believed in a time for everything and he
said so. Adela was nervous, though the
idea of anything happening to James did
seem ridiculous.
At a quarter to eight a man-servant in
the Franklin livery brought a letter for the
Quartermaster. The old man stood with
it in his hands while he looked out of the
window. The storm was over and it was
calm and cold.
“He’s all right now, wherever he is,” he
said as he stumped away to his study with
the unopened letter in his hand.
The bell rang and there was a commo-
tion in the hall. Adela half rose, but
William and Fanny had gone. The cold
wind from the open door swirled through
the house. Someone screamed. Fanny held
Adela back.
“Don’t go yet. There has been an acci-
dent. James.”
Adela could see a man in oilskins. Lionel
was beside her, holding her arm.
The study door at the end of the hal}
burst open. They heard the Quartermaster’s
voice raised in anger as they had' not heard
it for years.
The little crowd fell back, and the
Quartermaster saw James lying where they
had laid the shutter down upon the floor.
He looked from the slowly gathering pool
upon the floor to the faces of the men, to
William.
He stood there for a moment, an old
square man with a thick neck and a red
face, and his features worked strangely with
something more animal than grief. Then
he pitched forward on his face.
CHAPTER XXI.
Half-mast.
The night seemed as if it would never
end while they divided their attention be-
tween the living and the dead, for the
Quartermaster still lived though his life
hung in the balance. He had had a stroke,
brought on by shock, and that was not sur-
prising, the doctor said, in a man of his
full habit. He was not conscious. The
heart was making a gallant struggle for
life, but the mind and the will were gone.
The Quartermaster had deserted his family
in its bitterest hour.
Fanny raised the candle for the hundredth
time to look in his face. There was nothing
to betray his illness but a slight distortion
of the mouth, yet he bore an air of futility
and helplessness; the big hands upon the
counterpane were the weakest things she
had ever seen. “Papa, where are you?” her
heart cried out again and again. His high
courage, his iron will and his magnificent
vitality had blown out like a candle flame
and Fanny knew as little where it had
gone. Tragedy and mystery and the long
night.
Adela sat alone in her bedroom in the
dim light of two candles. The room seemed
very large, much too large for their shrunken
lives. She had helped to put the Quarter-
master to bed, to chafe his limbs and pack
him in hot-water bottles; she had opened
his clenched hand and taken from it the
crumpled paper he had been holding when
he fell. She had brought it in to give to
William later in case it was important. She
had wanted to keep watch with Fanny, but
she was the bereaved mother and must
think of nothing but her grief. Yet she
felt that her grief was coming to her not
directly, but through William. She longed
to help and comfort him, but no one could
do that yet. The magnitude of his grief
frightened her, for it was greater than her
own. She could not pray or weep, could
only sit there cold and stiff, remembering
things—a long procession of memories
winding through her mind without her
volition.
In the emptiness of the night Adela
opened and smoothed out the paper she
had taken from the Quartermaster’s hand.
It seemed to be an ordinary business com-
munication, something about an invoice
for goods going south to-morrow, but it
was signed “Richard Franklin” and at the
bottom there was a postscript:—
“Since one good turn deserves another,
1 would warn you that there is a leakage
in your office. When making up your
tenders, you would do well to keep an eye
on Master James. — R.F.”
Adela read the words again and again. It
was evident that they had a sinister mean-
ing though it was not immediately apparent
to her. Slowly she fitted it together. James
had been ashamed and unhappy and
frightened; he had wanted that day to tell
her his trouble, but she had not listened
and he had gone away to his death.
Franklin, not content with getting the in-
formation, had betrayed James to his
grandfather to satisfy his grudge. She re-
membered the Quartermaster’s voice raised
in anger. It was two shocks and not one
that had brought the old man down.
She saw the outline of tragedy, though
she could not know the details. James’s
death was no longer a crude and inconse-
quent tragedy, but the climax of a long
and bitter tale of misfortune. James had
not been invulnerable after all. All the time
she had been thinking that, he had been
needing her. She was shaken by the onset
of a terrible pity.
The paper fluttered from her fingers and
her head fell forward on the table. She
knew there was something she must do
before she let herself go. Wildly she looked
round for Franklin’s letter. This was some-
thing she could do for William. It was
lying a white patch on the carpet’. She
picked it up, touched it to the candle flame
and in a moment it was gone.
Adela fell into a coma of exhaustion, and
so another day came between James and
life.
A maid came hesitatingly into the room
where Adela sat. She scarcely knew how
to approach the newly bereaved. Adela
was seeing no one.
“Miss Franklin is downstairs, ma’am. She
says she must see you.”
Adela said “Show her up, Amy.” She
knew now that she had been expecting
Laurel to come.
Laurel, in her gown of mignonette green,
was like a ghost in this shaded room; only
her pallor was like a white fire.
She was speaking. “Forgive me, but I
must know about James. Was it an acci-
dent or did he kill himself?”
The words shocked the quiet room. It
was as if Laurel had struck herself, and
lifting her face against the blow waited
for Adela’s answer.
“You did not kill him; you only dis-
graced him,” she said with a bitterness that


“The Quartermaster saw James lying where they had laid the shutter down upon the floor.
seemed strange even to herself, so exhausted
and quiet she had been.
“He told you, then?” .
“No, but your father wrote to Mr. Hyde,
The letter was in his hands when they
brought James home:”
Laurel’s hand went to her heart, She said
nothing. There was nothing to say. She
.r o in< r but Adela must know something
f- A.
“Laurel, did you ie./ him?”
And Laurel answered, wounding them
both with the truth: “I don’t know.”
A.dela could think now that she was
alone again; there was nothing to do but
think. She”did not know if she had ever
loved her son. And now he was dead! Laurel
had not loved him either. He had seemed
so strong and so fortunate. He had had so
much but he had not been able to make
them ’love him, and he had wanted it so
much. Even now it was pity and not love
that caught at her heart, At last, after all
these years, she possessed James; she had
his secret and looked upon his weakness.
He no longer hid from her.
But, then, he was dead. ,
Coming home against the wind at dusk
Adela paused at the top of the hill. It
plunged away from her feet down into
the darkness and the river. It made her
afraid, and the wind frightened her, too. But
they were only outside things and they beat
upon her mind because she was so tired.
Underneath, hidden in her heart, there was
a spark that would grow into a steady light,
She could not be happy yet, not for a
very long time perhaps, but some day she
would be. It was as if she brought home
something warm under her cloak—it was
the quiet heart.
Adela was coming home from seeing
Richard Franklin. It had been an ordeal,
but it was over. The anticipation had been
worse than the thing itself. She had pressed
her hands tightly together and said what
she had come to say. She had begged him
to keep the secret of James’s treachery, and
lie had promised. She was at peace. At
last there had been something that only
she could do for James and she had done
it She was glad it had been difficult, that
it had humbled her, for there was more
efficacy in it that wav. She had served the
invulnerable Hydes, and that they would
never know did not matter at all. She
could set her heart on Lionel now without
the thought of James coming between them.
She hurried down the hill holding her
black mantle close about her. a tiny black-
clad figure in the immensity of the dusk.
Firenze was kind and welcoming.
When James was buried and all the letters
of condolence had been received and
answered, there was nothing to do but to
take up then-lives again. It was as it they
had all been dead—not insentient but dead,
thrown clear of life. Looking back on n
the old life before the tragedy seemec
enamelled m bright colors It looked now
far happier and much smoother than it had
been. It had worn that air of immortality
that a sunny afternoon wears,
For Lionel everything was changed. He
had been reading, not very seriously, lor
the law; but now he must -go into the
business, for no matter what happened the
business must go on. It was inevitable, and
Lionel himself was the last to question it.
But the burden of being the only giandson
was heavy upon him.
The Quartermaster still lay helpless upon
his bed. He had not moved or spoken
(Concluded on next page.)


You
also
can be
Happy
Happy Janet Gaynor
O’Brien, clever "FOX’
featuring in some oj
films ever produced.
Cream of Yeast
Healthl”
and George
Stars, now
1 the finest
Note the
"Smiles of
To be well is to be happy, and to take Cream
of Yeast is to be well! See, when you take
this modern remedy, liow aches and pains
vanish; how weariness departs; how appe-
tite improves, and how the joy of life comes
back! Cream of Yeast is the world’s great-
est tonic and invigorator, conveniently avail-
able to all. Cream of Yeast makes you feel
better and look better in a few minutes—
It's a wonderful lightning pick-me-up]
Never disappoints ; forms no liabit; no harm-
ful drug-content. Let Cream of Yeast
improve your health at once. All chemists
and stores sell it —24 Tablets 1/11, 48 for
3/6, 125 for 5/1). Satisfaction or money back
guaranteed.
Your Health and Spirita will Quickly Improve
by taking Cream of Yeast
Amalgamated Laboratories, Kcmbla Building, Sydney: and all High-class Chemists.
“To make a day, it took
an Evening and a Morning
—at least to make the first
day. But that was when
the world was new and
there was in it only light
and darkness, day and
night, and God.
The world has grown
more complicated since
that creative era. To make
a day now it takes bells
and whistles and clocks
and desks and committees
and meetings and money
and a serial of daily news-
paper editions, and hungry
people, people who are
too tired, and luncheon
engagements and tele-
phones and wireless and
many other things.”
The Telegraph
helps to make “a day”
and incidentally “a pay”
—at least for those who
use its columns! I
The Telegraph Newspaper
Company, Ltd.,
Queen and Elizabeth Sts., Brisbane.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.’ 7
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
HAIR
&
{f
NEEH
MERES
•umu
ẅ
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
gPCULtmS CMEXICAN)
likUtudStaMl
THE GREY**
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (4/6), 6d. being postage.
w
If any illustration in The Bulletin take;
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
ITiSB MADE
Perfection
PITSK. ROBBER
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
An Ideal Winter Home —The Most Sheltered Spot on the Harbor, with Private Beach and
Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort—Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds
and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4\ guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip ‘rom City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: YSOI2 (4 lines).
since the night of his seizure, and the whole
house waited. It was like waiting in the
dark for the dawn, sure at first that it
must come, holding 3 r our breath in immedi-
ate expectation, and then the fear, dragging
at the foundations of life, that there never
would be another dawn.
No one, not even the doctors with their
studied omniscience, knew whether he was
conscious under his paralysis. It was a
terrible mystery in their midst. There was
nothing to do but to watch, and the whole
house watched and listened. The task of
nursing was beyond even Fanny; it was a
nightmare every time the old man had to
be lifted. A man servant was engaged to
take care of him, a sombre man with a
pale oblong face and the air of having
always lived among deaf mutes.
The room was high, light and airy. The
voluminous starched white valance of the
bed held blue shadows. There were flowers
in a white and yellow bowl on the bureau,
and the basin and pitcher in willow pattern
stood on a table with folded napkin and
chaste white soap ready for the doctor. The
manservant, in neat black with his oblong
pale face composed to look like part
of the furniture, waited at attention near
the head of the bed. There was in the
room a sort of perfection which became
almost a fetich. It was all they could do
now for him, but if he could have so
much as opened his eyes the whole atmo-
sphere of that precise room would have
been shattered.
Every day as he entered the room the
doctor asked “How is our patient to-day?”
and eveiy day Fanny answered, “Just the
same, I am afraid, Doctor.” Every day
after the examination he announced, “No
change to-day, Miss Hyde,” and Fanny con-
ducted him back to the world, down the
stairs, through the sunbeam and past the
white and gold doors.
Each afternoon Adela sat with the
Quartermaster. She sat by the window that
looked out over the remote courtyard and
down the path that led to the coach-house.
She could not give her mind to her sewing
or her book because the dying head came
between her and whatever she tried to do.
His influence had been implicit in her life
as in all their lives; now it became explicit.
The mystery of his condition loomed over
her. They were bound together by the
secret that they shared. They were more
intimate now than in what Adela was be-
ginning to think of as the Quartermaster’s
life. It was as if he could not desert them,
as if some last thread of his will held when
all else was dead.
Adela wondered till the thought became
a torment if his paralysis were only of the
body, if his mind alive and clear were a
prisoner beating vainly to be free. She
thought of him as of someone at the bottom
of a well, calling for help when there was
no one to hear, or as of something still
living frozen in a block of ice. She tortured
herself with the image of his sufferings, his
grief for his' grandson dead, his remorse
that he should have greeted the dead with
anger and bitterness; perhaps, too, the dark
shape that had visited Laurel—the suspicion
that the boy had killed himself.
She tried to break through, to reassure
him. Leaning over him till her locket on
its slender gold chain lay upon his breast,
she spoke to him slowly and clearly. “Papa,”
she said, “I know, too. I read the letter
and then destroyed it. The others don’t
know. William and Fanny think he is
perfect; they always shall. We have been
able to leave them that.”
Her own voice in that silent room fright-
ened Adela. She was trembling. She hung
over him breathless, waiting for a sign
that he had heard, a variation in his breath-
ing, anything however slight that she could
interpret as a signal. But there was nothing.
In the evenings William sat with the
Quartermaster —by the bed, erect, with his
hands on his knees. Now and again he
cleared his throat as if he were going to
speak, but he said nothing. He was think-
ing of his son. It was a relief to him to let
his thoughts flow, like tears, like blood from
a mortal wound. All day lie held back his
mind from its grief, and forced it to the
business, but it ran underground, a salt
stream sterilising his life. He saw the
pattern of his life broken, and broken
in casual, reasonless cruelty. He had lived
carefully, with rectitude and caution, he
had seemed secure in the good life, but it
had availed nothing. James was dead.
After years of bitterness Fanny was
reconciled to him by his fortitude. She
thought, pressing her hand against her
breast, “William and I are the same. We
go the hardest way and we endure, but he
is stronger than I.” Their blood brought
them back to one another, and there was
only the fact, but no word of reconciliation.
When Adela went to comfort William
he comforted her. He remembered to be
very gentle with her, for she had lost her
son. But he had lost James, his heir, and
that was a grief he could not share with
any woman. If only he could have wept
with her, if they could have clung together
equally helpless before so great a sorrow!
Adela’s heart was softened to love him
again; but William remained himself.
Only with the Quartermaster could he
share his grief. Now that the old man
could not stir or speak, the surface differ-
ences that had so often come between father
and son were gone; the barriers between
them were down. William did not feel he
had to protect himself against his father.
Here by his bedside he could think. It was
scarcely a process of thought; rather, he
let realisation well up till it filled his heart.
At half-past nine the patient was com-
posed for the night and William came
slowly downstairs. The man-servant made
up his bed upon the couch and lit the night
light. It burned as dimly and as steadily
as the life it watched.
• Thus the Quartermaster still ruled at
Firenze and the routine of the whole house
revolved about him. They were Hydes.
No one believed they would never speak
with the Quartermaster again. They no
longer looked towards his recovery with
any hope; but they clung to the thought
that at the last there would be a flicker.
And at the end there was nothing. Adela
woke in an obscure hour of the night to
insistent knocking. She heard the valet
speaking in a low hurried voice, and William
answering in his normal tone: "1 shall stay
with Mr. Hyde while you go for the doctor.”
As by magic the whole house knew that
the change had come. Adela dressed hastily
and followed William to the Quartermaster’s
room. Fanny was there, immobile by the
bedside. The doctor came. He stood be-
side the bed through illimitable ages hold-
ing the Quartermaster’s wrist. Under his
finger the pulse fluctuated and fell away.
He said, “It is a matter of minutes.”
William stood at the head of the bed, and
Fanny stood beside him. Their calm was
almost more than Adela could bear.
William said “Lionel should be here,” and
turned to a servant who hovered near the
door: but Adela forestalled him and went
herself to bring the boy. She had to wake
him out of deep sleep and see his face
change from a warm bewilderment to shrink-
ing apprehension. Outside the Quarter-
master’s door she put her arms about him.
“Do not be afraid, my darling; there is
nothing terrible. He is slipping away in
his sleep.”
Together they entered the chamber.
William and Fanny made room for Lionel
by the bed, because he w r as the grandson.
He stood holding his mother’s hand tightly
in the folds of her gown.
They waited listening to the stertorous,
uncertain breathing, watching the changed
face.
The night ebbed, great waves of time
went past them into eternity. The breath-
ing stopped, went on again, faltered. Their
hearts said “Now,” and stiffened against
the crisis.
The doctor said. “He has gone,” and laid
the great hand back on the dead breast.
[The End.]
Your Memory.
Your memory as a walled-in garden close is,
Where the elovered turf is soft for the
tired feet,
Where the healing herbs of love greet love-
lier roses,
And even the weeds are sweet.
Seldom I turn that way, where undisputed
The powdered bees and pleasant birds hold
sway,
And the green winds whisper a threnody,
faint and muted
At the gracious end of day.
Where the blackbird’s mellow flute is, and
the thrushes
Spin old delights in a golden thread of
song,
And sunlight drenches the rosemary’s round
bushes
Where the buds remain so long.
But, whiles, heart weary of lesser hearts
that harden,
Of Fates grown fickle and friendship
touched with taint,
I turn ; and to me your memory’s fragrant
garden
Is the shrine of a lovely saint.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.
The Ship at Rest.
A tender, windless, amber air
(Is it day’s end, or day re-born?)
And the salt sea-floor, satin-fair,
Is green as early summer corn.
As green as jade the ancients taught
To be the Substance of the Soul;
As green as sacred emeralds fraught
With power to purge the poison-bowl.
(The mortal fluid of unrest,
That drives the pulse and darks the eye
Like the witch-herb ; that gnaws the breast
Though on a placid breast it lie.)
Oh. healing and unwrinkled green!
Oh, glareless, shadeless, amber air!
Oh, tree-plumes, mirage-like, serene,
Glassed in the emerald mirror there!
What is this perfect, still lagoon?
What gradual god-word shaped its bars?
Round as a smooth, jade mirror-moon,
Impearled with imaged blossom stars.
And at the centre of the ring
The ship, a grey-white phantom, stands,
Sad as a tattered sea-bird’s wing.
No pulse of breath the sail expands.
Its taut-rigged nerves, their cordage frayed,
Have done with breath; it rests as still
As the couched stag, no more dismayed,
Freed by the spear that wrought it ill,
Oh, utter nameless, emerald calm,
Reflecting neither night nor day!
Oh. tree-plumes, neither pine nor palm!
Oh, nerves no breath of life can fray!
On what star-chart is marked the name
Of this inviolate circle-place?
The helmsman here is free from blame,
And the masked pilot shows his face.
A day, a year, a thousand years
Ere they break sail for Time and Space?
N.S.W.
DULOIE DEAMER.


PARADISE PLUMES
BY GILBERT MUNRO TURNBULL
by □
CHAPTER 1.
Sailing Day.
THE skies were leaden and overcast with
low-hanging clouds which scudded
before the wind. Blake huddled into
his overcoat as a bitter gust whistled round
the corner of the deck-house. He told him-
self that this was his last day in Sydney;
that within a few weeks he would be back
among the mud and mangroves, the sago-
swamps and the trackless jungle of New
Guinea. And unaccountably the prospect
thrilled him. He speculated as to why he
should feel elated when by all the rules of
the game he should be despondent. He had
a sudden vision of a golden sun in a bald,
blue sky; of gleaming seas that laughed in
the sunshine; of queer mop-haired brown
folk in grass-thatched huts; of jade-green
islands set like gems in azure lagoons; ol
mighty mountains, thundering cataracts and
turbulent, muddy rivers, and a little wry
smile played about the corners of his mouth
as it was borne in upon him that he was
homesick—homesick for New Guinea!
Perhaps his city friends were right when
they called him a fool. Perhaps he was
mad to exile himself for life among an
ungrateful race of niggers, sacrificing youth
and health for a reward a Sydney wharf-
lumper would sneer at. But they didn’t
understand, they didn’t “savee,” that Papua
is irresistible; that once she gets her claws
into a white man she never lets go.
The Moratau strained at her lines as it
she, too, shared his mood. The gangplank
was down, the Blue Peter fluttered aloft,
and soon the passengers
would be trooping
aboard. Engrossed in
thought, Blake leaned
over the rail. A clean-
built, clean-cut young
man, this' Stephen Blake,
a trifle lean for his six
feet of height, and his
sunburned face a little
more lined than his
thirty-odd years alto-
gether warranted. For
the rest he was grey of
eye, fair of hair, the
type of clean-bred, open-
eyed, healthy young fel-
low that women find at-
tractive and men depend-
able.
“Passengers only!”
The ship’s officer was
intoning the wor d s
mechanically. “Visitors
not allowed aboard. Show tickets, please!’
Blake’s mood of depression lifted as he
watched the ci*owd gathered about the
gangplank. Tourists, for the most part, he
reflected, escaping from the rigors of winter
into those enchanted lands of adventure and
romance they vaguely called “the Islands’ ;
and the usual sprinkling of missionaries,
planters, traders, officials, storehands and
an odd miner or two. For a while Blake
amused himself in an attempt to fit his
fellow-voyagers into their proper categories.
Here and there were familiar faces, friendly
faces, the faces of men with whom Blake
had camped in the roaring days of the Lake-
kamu; men who had shared his tucker on
lonely out-stations, in native rest-houses,
and in bush camps scattered up and down
the Papuan coast. With these men he
exchanged friendly nods.
He glanced at his watch. It still lacked
half an hour of sailing time, and people
were still streaming up the gangplank in
seemingly endless procession.
Blake, staring abstractedly at the crowd,
smiled gently at the pictures he was con-
juring up. Then he started as if he had
received a shock, the smile froze on his
face, and he colored in embarrassment. For
the fraction of a second he had been staring
vacantly into a pair of eyes—wonderful eyes
they were—grey-blue or perhaps violet; eyes
that seemed to hold a friendly gleam, until
in that split second he had grinned stupidly,
fatuously, and the head had been hurriedly
averted. Blake bit his lip.
For a moment he let his gaze wander, then
coolly, carelessly, he flicked a glance at
the girl, the owner of the wonderful eyes.
She was fur-wrapped, the coat modishly
short, displaying straight, slim legs sheathed
in shimmering silk. He stole a prudent,
sidelong glance at her face—a perfect oval
face of that rich, creamy pallor that goes
with abounding health; an alluring mouth,
a straight, finely-chiselled nose, a tiny ear
over which a strand of fair hair gleamed
like spun gold- Again she looked up, and
their eyes clashed, held a moment, and
again she turned her head away.
Blake decided that her eyes were grey.
He found himself wondering with a
curious sort of thrill if she was a passenger,
or if she was merely saying good-bye to the
slim youth standing by her side whose rela-
tionship was evident at a glance. The same
coloring, the same features, the same assured
bear ing—indubitably a brother.
“All aboard, please!” the officer called
briskly. “Gangway! Stand back, please!”
The last passengers scrambled aboard.
The girl with the grey eyes threw her arms
around the youth and kissed him. Then she,
too, hurried up the gangplank. Blake saw
her edging her way among the people
crowding the rail. Her mouth was quiver-
ing, and she dabbed at her eyes with a
tiny wisp of a handkerchief.
A tug fussed alongside, the chief officer
took his station on the forecastle head, a
command was rapped out from the bridge,
and men stood by to cast off the lines.
He fumbled in his pocket, and, producing
a case, gave her a card.”
Blake heard the clang of the telegraph, the
first faint throb of the engines, and she long
trek to the' sun-radiant North had begun.
Stephen Blake told himself that the
Moratau was taking him back to work, back
to the job he “saveed,” that he had made
his own—teaching exasperatingly unrespon-
sive niggers something of the white man’s
love of soap; substituting statute law for
the law of the club; stamping out savagery
and race-destroying superstitions; inculcat-
ing in the minds of unsporting natives the
gospel of the “fair thing”; eradicating foul
disease and fouler ti’ibal customs; in short,
carrying out the thousand and one duties
—some trivial and some Herculean—that
fall to the lot of a district magistrate on a
Papuan out-station.
“Half-baked idealism,” Blake told himself
cynically, “but a fascinating, exasperating,
satisfying man’s job.”
Now the deck planks were vibrating gently
to the dull throb of the engines as the vessel-
moved slowly ahead. Gradually the wharf
receded. The faces of the people ashore
were already blurred, indistinct; soon they
became indistinguishable one from another
and merged into a waving crowd.
Blake caught a glimpse of the girl he had
named Miss Grey Eyes. She had moved
to the poop, and was leaning over the
taffrail as if she would postpone, even by
seconds, the last wave, the final, inevitable
parting from the lad on the fast receding
wharf. There was something in her bearing,
in the fearless set of her head, something
game, something gallant, that touched
Stephen Blake with a little sentiment of
pity. What was she doing aboard the
Moratau outward bound for Papuan ports?
What had New Guinea to offer this slim,
straight young thing with the radiant eyes?
He assured himself that she was ,iust an-
other tourist affected by the prevailing
movie-inspired craze for the “scented
tropics”; just one of a crowd who would
be repelled by Port Moresby’s gaunt, sun-
scorched hills and impressed by its beautiful
harbor; who would be awed to silence by
the enchanting loveliness of Samarai, and
thrilled by Woodlark’s awesome grandeur.
But modern young women do not weep un-
affectedly when parting from younger
brothers for fivp or six weeks. Or do they ?
Blake was not sure, but on the whole he
thought not. And curiously comforted by
the thought he joined the promenaders on
the mmer deck.
Familiar landmarks
loomed up, came abreast
and dropped behind as the
Moratau nosed her way to
the heads—the bustled con-
fusion of Circular Quay;
buildings that had been the
city’s pride in Blake’s boy-
hood now dwarfed by tower-
ing structures in concrete
and steel; the giant pylons,
the soaring masses of steel
and falsework that one day
would be the Harbor
Bridge; the long, lean hulls
of destroyers riding at
anchor off Garden Island,
cheek by jowl with grimy
coal hulks that had cnee
been clipper ships; the wave-lapped Gardens,
deserted save for a few shivering derelicts
this bleak, winter day. Stephen Blake was
conscious of a little pang, a queer little
tightening of the throat as the familiar
scenes unfolded themselves and quickly
receded.
The deckplanks were throbbing now
under the thresh of the screw as the ship
gathered speed; the red-tiled roofs of the
harbor suburbs were sliding by, and the
Heads—Port Jackson’s rugged bodyguards
—were opening ahead. Already the wind
was moaning through the rigging; already
little waves were slapping playfully at the
bow-plates; white surf was whipping the
rocks at the foot of North Head, and high-
, rolling, foam-capped rollers were showing
up in the open sea beyond.
The girl who had aroused Blake’s interest
was still leaning over the taffrail watching,
as Blake had watched, the matchless pan-
orama of the harbor fading slowly astern
Presently she turned away, and waiketl
slowly forward, nestling into her furs, boon
she was stepping cautiously down the poop
ladder, her slim feet feeling for the treads,
her gloved hands gripping the guard rail.
Blake saw her picking her way along the
cluttered after-well deck, and presently she
was braced against the forward railing ol
the upper deck, gazing steadily ahead. Her
head was up, her chin tilted, her shouldeis
set squarely. To Blake, it seemed that her
attitude was a gesture—a gesture ol defiance,
a challenge. It was as though she had thrown
off the past, as though she had determined
to keep her eyes ever on the horizon, always
on the magic, the enchanted future.
Now the decks lifted and fell as the
Moratau changed course, and the sailorly
swagger of the promenading passengers be-
came a lubber’s lurch. The wind whistled
through the rigging with a menacing note,
and its bite grew keener. The sea surged
overside, no longer slapping playfully
against the bow plates, but hissing viciously
astern in seething eddies. A grey day and
a grey sky, and seawards a. grey waste ol
white-capped waters, with here and there
smudges of smoke from the funnels ol
vessels hull down on the hoiizon.
Gradually the land sank astern. The sea,
though smooth enough to those who loved
it, was becoming noticeably livelier. i\ow
and then green water broke over the bows
and drove aft in whipping salt spray. One
by one the passengers on deck dropped out,
seeking their cabins or the cheerful warmth
of the smokeroom, until Blake alone was
left.
Not. altogether alone; for as he, too,
crammed on his hat preparatory to diving
below, one figure still stood at the forward
rail—a lone little figure, wrapped in a
modish fur coat, gazing steadily ahead, over
the foam-flecked sea, as if she were seeing
a vision, dreaming a dream.
CHAPTER 11.
A Man and a Maid.
Blake spent the long afternoon in the
company of a party of Austral-Papuans
who preferred the warmth of the smokeroom
to the discomfort of the bleak, wind-swept
decks. Jim Donnelly, the lean-faced, un-
smiling pioneer of the Modari Field, was
there; Old Hurricane Jack Williams, white
whiskered and hard of eye, one of the old
brigade whose history is the history of
Papua; Mervyn Woods, the missionary
broad-shouldered, broad-minded, cultured
and very tolerant—welcomed wherever men
of New Guinea, of all creeds and all callings,
congregate together; and the stout gentle-
man with the protruding eyes and the purple
face whom Woods surprisingly introduced
as Professor Hicks, an anthropologist with
an international reputation.
Blake felt that it was good to be in the
company of these men. They discussed the
copra market, the rubber market, the pros-
pects of striking oil in the Gulf country,
the eternal native-labor question, and the
topic —old, yet ever new —that absoibs all
good Austral-Papuans wherever they meet
together—the big “strike,” another Yodda,
another Aikora, that once again will put
Papua on the goldminer’s map. They re-
lated with a certain grim satisfaction those
grisly stories, ugly, macabre, that shock new-
comers to Papua, but which breathe the
very spirit of the land—tales of the bad
old days when Death, stalked in the jungle,
when the heads of lonely prospectors and
traders decorated the ridge poles of village
huts, and their bodies made a Papuan
holiday; when the too-trustful died horribly,
and every man’s life depended solely on his
own good right arm.
Blake and the missionary went off
together. A scene of desolation met their
eyes when they reached the upper deck
where their cabins were. The sun was
setting behind a bank of misty cloud,
through which its dying rays struggled fit-
fully, streaking sea and sky with thin lines
of pale silver. The wind had freshened
to a spanking half gale from the south,
piercingly cold, lashing the sea and screech-
ing through the rigging with ever-increasing
fury.
“A following wind and a following sea,”
Blake shouted as they took a turn up and
down the reeling deck. “Might be worse,
but we’re in for a wild night, Padre.”
“And the cyclone season to boot,” the
missionary added.
Blake glanced quickly up and down the
deck. He had half expected to see a little
fur-wrapped figure at the forward rail, but
save for themselves and an occasional
steward hurrying to the assistance of dis-
tressed passengers in the state-rooms, the
decks were deserted. Naturally the girl
had gone below hours ago.
(Continued on page 57.)


MICK SIMMONS
For Every
Sports Need!
“MAINE
SPECIAL
Bolt
Action
Rifle
PRICE
24/-
(Postage
1/6)
w
A Real
Game
Getter!
The “Maine Special”
is truly a wonder-
ful little Rifle that
will give you years of
service and good
sport. 22-calibre, for
short, long or long-
rifle cartridges.
Round barrel, 2 1 in.
long, bored and rifled
with the same care
and precision as the
military weapon, and
guaranteed accurate.
Weight, about 31b.
COURT
CRAFT
Tennis
RacKet
9 9
PRICE
24-
(Post Paid.)
Supreme value in Tennis Rackets. Made
from selected English Ash, with shoulders
doubly strengthened by an inlay of raw-
hide and extra strong gut binding. Strung
with dependable Gut. Ideally serves the
schoolboy or schoolgirl player or even an
adult tyro.
“Winchester”
Electric Torches.
Li
“WINCHESTER”
Junior Pocket Torch
Two-cell, superior lock
switch contact; length,
diameter, I f in.
Black Case 77-
Nickel Case 7/6
“WINCHESTER”
Focussing Spot Light
Pocket Torch
Two-cell, powerful sliding
lens that throws a com-
pact flood of light on the
object; switch contact;
length, 6f-in.; diameter,
1 fin. Black Case . . 10/6
Nickel Case 11/6
(Postage on any one Torch 6d.)
MICK SIMMONS Ltd.
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket,
Sydney.
“Australia’s Greatest Sports Store”
H EALTH
goes with
B EAUTY
LONEftAGAM
The element without which women of any type or
age fall short of Beauty is loveliness of skin.
It is the pride of Pears to give to women to-day
a soap so pure that it will bring out all the
natural beauty of a clear, healthy skin. Pears’
Soap is transparent as amber (sign of its purity),
fragrant as flowers, with a natural fragrance.
With the velvety lather of Pears’, and warm
and cold water, you can give yourself at home a
beauty treatment that will awaken your skin to its
fullest beauty.
ŵ
G, S
T'
*
4
o
Tran&JP
PEARS’ SOAP IS BUT ONE OF THE MANY EXCELLENT
TOILET PREPARATIONS OF A. & F. PEARS LIMITED
P6IB
“The Examiner”
Tasmania's Oldest Daily Newspaper. Established 1842.
THE FAMILY PAPER
OF NORTHERN TASMANIA
Everyone at Home reads “The Examiner” because it has the
Best Newspaper Service in Tasmania, Covering the Latest
Overseas, Interstate and Tasmanian News with Illustrations.
Tasmania’s Best
Illustrated Weekly i
*e “Weekly Courier”
Published
Every
Wednesday
For Any Advertising Campaign in
Queensland Let Your First Choice Be
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
and its companion journal, “The Sunday Mail,”
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine.
“The Daily Mail” is the big morning paper with a
greater nett circulation than any other daily in the
State.
“The Sunday Mail” covers in one day the entire
metropolitan circulation of Brisbane’s four dailies.
For advertising rates and other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
justification
Sa
Actual
The complete satisfaction, that
only perfection brings, more
than justifies the fastidiousness
that will insist on—
n
L,A CORONA
half-a- c or. on a


ẁ
ẃ
sary is to unscrew the
old cups and screw in
the Alemite fittings.
The fittings cost only
a few pence.
Plantation and Farm
equipment run much
better and last much longer when equipped
with Alemite.
ALEMITE MANUFACTURING CORPORATION
Division of Stewart-Warner
Chicago, 11. S. A.
Full Particlara from
MR. KENNETH J. G. SMITH
Resident Manager,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives :
Bennett & Wood, Ltd 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
Motor Supplies, Ltd Brisbane
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd 894 Hay Street, Perth
E. A. Machin & Co., Ltd. . 535 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
Cornell Limited, 122 Pirie Street, Box G.P.0.,496 E. Adelaide
For the Dominion of New Zealand:
Jas. J. Niven & Co., 152 Wakefeld, Street, Wellington, N. Z.
A chill blast swept through the cabin
when Blake swung back the door, and an
inert figure lying helplessly in the lower
berth stirred and moaned feebly.
“Can I do anything or get anything for
you, old man?” Blake asked sympatheti-
cally.
The other lifted a stricken, putty-colored
face, mumbled something from which it
was gathered that he was beyond all
human aid, and turned his face again to the
wall. Blake wrapped a blanket about him,
made a golf-bag secure, salvaged a helmet,
and prepared for dinner.
When he reached the saloon Blake found
himself marooned halfway between the
skipper and the chief engineer, with a line
of empty swivel chairs on both sides.
Mervyn Woods, the missionary, sat opposite.
Professor Hicks was the padre’s immediate
neighbor. The floor lifted and fell under
their feet, electric bells shrilled in the pantry
—signals of distress that sent white-coated
stewards hurrying hither and thither on
their errands of mercy—and green seas
roared and thundered against the port
lights.
The captain breezed in and took his seat
at the head of the table. He greeted
Blake and the Padre warmly and cast an
amused glance at the lines of empty seats.
“A small family, gentlemen,” he smiled.
Dinner that night was an exercise in
gymnastics rather than a pleasant social
meal; conversation languished between
courses, and both Blake and the Padre ex-
perienced a sense of relief when at last it
came to an end.
The two men smoked, talked and stamped
their feet in an effort to keep warm, while
outside the wind screamed, the seas
thundered and they heard the screw racing
as the ship ploughed her way through the
smother.
Blake stood up, bracing himself against
the companion. “I move we turn in, Padre,”
he said. “Lord, what a night!”
Sleep was impossible. . Now the ship
seemed to be wallowing in a cavernous
trough; now she was riding the crest of a
wave, only to slide down again into a
seemingly bottomless canyon. Sometimes she
reeled, staggered and almost stopped dead,
and there ensued an uncanny lull in which
Blake could hear the muffled footfalls of
the oflicer on the bridge, the clear, measured
notes of the bell marking the passage of
time, the racing of the screw, and the
agonised moan of the youth in the lower
berth. Then, as if the elements had been
renewing strength for a fresh onslaught, the
tempest roared again and the ship staggered
on.
Towards morning Blake fell into a fitful,
unrefreshing doze. Dreams came to haunt
him—vivid dreams. He was standing by
the side of a girl—a straight, slim girl,
wrapped in furs—on the brink of a mighty
precipice. Before them, stretching into in-
finite space, was a smiling, alluring world
—a world of enchantment, of blue dis-
tances, of sparkling rivers and magic cities
—a world quite other than that of common,
everyday experience. His companion was
stretching out her arms as if she would take
in all its loveliness, a look of yearning in
her eyes, her body swaying over the abyss.
He was pleading with her, protesting,
mumbling with lips to which words would
not come, struggling with her, striving to
hold her back, when suddenly a mass of
black cloud rolled up through which light-
ning played in streams of blue light, and
the muttering roll of distant thunder
sounded in their ears.
Always he was with her in situations in-
conceivably grotesque, situations in which
perils dire, unknown, threatened her. Always
he struggled with her, fought with her, his
lips mouthing warning words that would
not be uttered. Always her face floated
before him—anxious, defiant—and always
his dreams ended on a note of horror.
The first pale streaks of dawn filtered into
the cabin. A heavy-eyed steward brought
lukewarm bitter tea and shaving water.
“Morning, sir,” he yawned. “Blown ’er-
self out, I think, sir.”
Blake turned out. The steward was right.
There was a thought less bite in the wind,
a thought less of menace as it shrilled
through the cordage, and a thought less
angle in the tilt of the decks.
There was a different atmosphere also
in the saloon when Blake went down to
breakfast. Strong men spread out their
table napkins with the air of conquerors;
pallid, over-powdered women nibbled dry
toast fearfully.
As the saloon filled, Blake was conscious
of a feeling of expectation, of elation.
Gradually a certain restlessness grew upon
him, as time after time he heard light foot-
steps tripping down the companion, the
low voice of the chief steward murmuring
a greeting, and some girl— not she who had
disturbed his slumbers, stirred his soul—
was ushered to her seat.
Blake toyed with his food, telling himself
that he was a man of the world, not a silly,
sentimental boy, but try as he might he
could not conquer a growing sense of agi-
tation, and his eyes persisted in moving to
the companion. He sought to reason with
himself, telling himself that he was a fool,
that he didn’t know the girl, that he was
ignorant even of her name, but far back in
his consciousness was a ferment of warring
emotions.
Then, quite suddenly, the thing happened.
He was answering a question put by the
absurdly out-of-character scientist, Pro-
fessor Hicks—some question relating to the
tribes of the Purari Delta—when, with a
murmured apology, the table steward re-
versed the swivel chair on his right and the
girl who had been dominating his thoughts
seated herself. Blake was dimly aware that
he was talking at random, saying things
that brought an expression of polite in-
credulity to the professor’s prominent eyes,
while he sought to readjust his thoughts to
the amazing fact that she was by his
side, and inwardly he blessed the steward
who had the ordering of the seats.
He was watching her hands; white, cap-
able little hands they were, with a ring or
two—good rings—on slim, pink-nailed
fingers, as she studied the menu, while the
steward bent over her solicitously. She gave
her order, and, as she leaned back in her
chair, Blake felt her gaze bent full upon his
face.
Blake gulped. His face was burning, ho
was fumbling in his mind for something to
say, and was miserably aware that he
was attracting curious glances.
She looked up, her eyes dancing mis-
chievously. Blake felt his confusion leave
him; his discomfort evaporated and his
features responded instantaneously to
her friendly gaiety. Professor Hicks coughed.
“Of course, Mr. Blake,” he began senten-
tiously, “it is a common error to confuse
animism with—er—tree worship and
similar cults. Now, in the Solomons, I have
observed” and beaming benignly at
Blake he resumed the learned discussion
which had been interrupted by the appear-
ance of Blake’s neighbor. Blake threw him
a glance in which gratitude and mortifica-
tion were ruefully blended. A good fellow,
Hicks.
Breakfast ended they left the saloon to-
gether. The upper deck had taken on the
appearance of a convalescent ward. There
were lines of canvas chairs in which
passengers were reclining, while a brisk
steward wrapped rugs about their knees.
Professor Hicks escorted the girl to her
chair, his red face beaming with fatherly
benignity. He made her comfortable, and,
dragging another chair to her side, seated
himself.
“My name is Hicks,” he volunteered.
“Professor Hicks.” He fumbled in his
pocket and, producing a case, gave her a
card.
The girl looked at him with fluttering
interest.
“Why,” she exclaimed, “you’re quite a
—a personage!”
“You are very kind, my dear young
lady,” Professor Hicks murmured, his eyes
twinkling. She moved her shoulder, and
he read the label attached to her deck chair:
“Miss Lesley Rowan,
Passenger to Port Moresby.”
“I’m a very unimportant little person,”
she smiled. She seemed about to continue,
then checked herself, and offered no further
information. For a time they chatted in-
consequently, and presently Blake hove into
view.
Professor Hicks hailed him. “May I.
Miss Rowan?” he asked.
The girl nodded brightly, and Blake, hav-
ing now come abreast, was formally pre-
sented.
“Mr. Blake is a mine of information
concerning Papua and its most interesting
people, Miss Rowan,” the Professor re-
marked. “Though I must confess that some
of his theories are delightfully—er—refresh-
ing.”
Blake laughed. Professor Hicks grinned
mischievously and stood up.
“Please excuse me,” he said. “I have
reached that stage in life where exercise of
some sort is an absolute necessity.”
“Awfully nice fellow—the Professor,”
Blake opened inanely.
“I think he is a dear,” the girl agreed.
For a moment they looked at each other.
Blake colored and turned away his head.
The girl laughed. She had a rare gift of
laughter. For a time she chatted ani-
matedly—about the life aboard ship, the
storm of the previous night, the prospects
of fair weather, all with an enthusiasm, an
ingenuousness that was engagingly school-
girlish. Blake was content to put in a
word now and then, content to lie back
in his chair noting every movement, every
glance, every changing expression that flitted
over her face. It was a happiness, a delight
only to lean back and look at her, to
laugh into her eyes when she laughed.
Stephen Blake knew all that was to be
known concerning Papuan . natives. He
regretted that his education in other
respects had been sadly neglected.
The sea had become calm and the ship
was riding smoothly, rising and falling
rhythmically to the swell at a steady ten
knots. Gulls wheeled screaming astern,
swooping for scraps tossed from the galley.
Snowy molly-hawks—own cousins to the
mighty albatross—planed, poised, wheeled
and planed again in graceful flight. Gannets
poised and dived and came up again with
fish flashing in their yellow beaks. Once a
school of porpoises went leaping and playing
under the bows. There was a blissful
moment when Blake lifted his companion
to the rail, and, far abeam, a huge, black
shape reared above the surface of the sea.
towered aloft for a second with a defiant
flourish of a mighty tail, then plunged again
(Continued on next page.)


CHRONIC BACKACHE
1 Rheumatism, Lumbago
BE WARNED IN TIME
NATURE IS TELLING YOU TO TAKE THIS SOUND ADVICE
Sudden dizziness, head-swimming, sight blurred, chronic
backache, a weak, helpless feeling, almost ready to faint
—be warned! Nature is telling you in unmistakable
terms of deep-seated Kidney Trouble.
It is no use trying to ward off these attacks with heart-
exciting drugs which may “buck you up” for an hour
only to leave you weaker than before. You cannot
neglect these symptoms unless you wish to wait for total
health break-down.
Do you know there are a host of women ready and
willing to tell you they ended all the dread symptoms of
Kidney Trouble in an inexpensive, quick manner, simply
by taking a short course of De Witt’s Pills?
The kidneys, in health, act as the great cleansing and
purifying centre for every drop of the body’s blood
supply. They should filter and pass out from the system
-p
iSI
-5?
<r
-r;
<*-
StV^
m
•&
*
SeS
n
'CX'S
<<*
ill
&
pj c *'
f*>? #
ra-5 c '
wJhßlfl 11 - ;nl
any excess of uric acid. When they
fail in their duty, your health fails
and pain and suffering result.
That is why the only pos-
sible remedy for
Rheumatism,
'O
li mh 1
Hrsi
pe
Sciatica, Lumbago, or Gout must act directly on the
kidneys, and that is why we state clearly and definitely
that the world-famous De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills
are guaranteed to do this, purifying the blood, ridding it
entirely of pain-giving poisons, and restoring splendid
vigor and vitality.
Why not let De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills start
you on the road to health to-day? Go to your chemist
and get a 3/6, or the larger, more economical size, 6/6,
supply. Take them regularly. You will be amazed how
quickly your health will improve. Your chemist can tell
you all about the prescription from which “De Witt’s”
are made. It is clearly printed on the box. Further-
more, he sells this remedy under distinct guarantee that
in 24 hours you will see and know the pills have started
their health-restoring action. If not, your money is
refunded. With this guarantee surely you will not stay
crippled with ill-health longer? Let De Witts bring you,
as they have brought thousands of others, strength, health
and happiness.
READ THIS LETTER-JUST ONE OF THOUSANDS
Mrs. E. Deacon, 48 Locksby Avenue, Merrylands, Sydney, says 1 .
“For nine months I suffered with had backache. It was just as if
a fork had been dug in my back. I could not sleep with the pain. A s
for doing my cleaning, when I got down on my knees I could hardly
get up. The pain attacked me everywhere. No one knows what I
went through with my Kidneys. I started taking Be Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills. They have done me the world of good. I get
up better, fresher at five in the morning without trouble or pain.
I blame myself for not taking ‘De Witt’s’ before.”
KIDNEY
AND
BLADDER
w
Si
4k
r
main
=?
o
v>
beneath the waves. The girl exclaimed aloud
in wonder. It was a lone bull whale
ploughing northwards to keep a tryst.
To Lesley Rowan it was a voyage in
which wonder crowded upon wonder, delight
upon delight. A sense of high adventure
possessed her, exhilarated her, thrilled her,
and the crowded turmoil of the city became
as the memory of a dream. She felt curi-
ously drawn to the sun-burned, quiet-voiced
men who, over the breakfast table, had
related in casual sentences stories that were
epics of dangers surmounted and trials over-
come in the pursuit of knowledge, and, most
of all, she felt drawn to the agreeable,
rather shy young man with the attractive
grey eyes and the engaging smile who was
such a patient listener,
As for Stephen Blake, he was conscious
only of a blissful exaltation—of unsuspected,
disturbing emotions.
y n t j lc mxt instalment Mr. Turnbull takes
us to Stephen Blake’s station in New
Guinea; and there is loot'd of a toedding.]
Monkeys and a Small Accident.
ANOTHER OF ARTHUR H. ADAMS'S DELIGHTFUL FANTASIES.
THE little, plump, middle-aged mau was
gazing down at the monkeys in their
pit at the Zoo—one of the ring of spec-
tutors idling there in the glorious sunshine,
complacently amused by the antics of the
i'utile little animals, so busy over trifles, such
a parody of humanity at its worst.
They were happy enough in their sunken
enclosure, in which there were little caves
and bare trees, worn smooth by their antics,
and swings and hanging ropes for their sport,
llovv wise they seemed, how aloof, yet with
an eager upward gaze when a child threw
down a banana or a peanut! And, after all,
so human—mothers tending their monkey-
children, waiting for gifts from Heaven, chas-
iug each other in the upper branches of the
trees, swinging by their tails, and suddenly
in the midst of a fierce struggle forgetting
what game they were playing.
The little pompous man laughed with the
other spectators, and then suddenly became
reflective. To think that ,we, the whole
human population of the world, had once been
monkeys! Millions of years ago, of course,
That was what the scientific johnnies told
us. They ought to know. . . .but did they?
A child had just dropped a trivial vanity-
case into the arena. He had not seen it fall;
but he was in time to see a monkey capture
the treasure. It turned the thing about with
a comical pre-occupation. With eager fingers
it pulled out a little pocket mirror, and
looked into the glass. In the looking-glass
there was another monkey! Swiftly it looked
behind the glass; but there was no other
monkey. It had been there a moment before,
Now it had vanished. The monkey’s astonish-
ment sent the audience into shrieks of
laughter.
But there was one that snarled at the teas-
ing of the laughing crowd. It showed annoy-
ance at the ring of spectators, almost human
in its anger. It seemed as if it knew that it
was being exhibited before the crowd—as if
it felt its degradation, a captive for exhibi-
tion. Around its narrow waist there wag a
belt of iron, to which it was shackled by a
length of chain. From time to time it fumbled
with eager fingers at the obstruction about
its waist. With futile exasperation it tugged
at the hampering links. And the more it
picked at its tether the louder was the
laughter of the spectators.
Tiring at last the little man wandered on
through the pathways; but. his thoughts were
still on the scene that he had quitted.
These monkeys were so like the humans
who had captured them. \\ hat had made the
enormous chasm between the brisk mentality
of the human being and the formlessness of
the foolish little brain of a monkey ! Sup-
pose.... suppose that the scene had been
reversed—the sedate man of business trans-
ported by some weird necromancy into the
monkeys’ pit, with a ring of apes a loony
leaning down to watch the humans! After
all, they were not very different; it must have
been a mere chance that had divided the two
races, the human and the monkey, each to
take its own track, one out-distancing the
other in evolution. _
Well, he was lucky in being one of the
superior creatures! Any order of the animals
might have grasped the lordship of creation —
the elephants, intelligence mated with enor-
mous strength ; or the vast leathern-winged
prc-historic beings that once flapped through
the heavy air; or some prowling gigantic
dogs. But these had all been too heavy, too
clumsy. Cunning had proved the supreme
virtue; and the contest had been left to the
monkey and the man. But for some tiny kink
in the brain of the monkey, man might have
been in the pit. Even now was he secure?
Immersed in his subject, he strolled away ;
and at the turn past the seals’ pond liis
foot slipped on a path that had been built
too steep. H'e tried to wrench himself up-
right and clutched at the air, but lost his
equilibrium and crashed on the concrete,
The accident was quickly noticed. A
group of girls shrieked as he fell. He had
struck bis head on the hand rail and blood
was trickling through bis hair. People ran
up. His body was awkwardly twisted. A
man bent down and half lifted him.
“I’m a doctor!” said another. “Keep the
people back.” And the unconscious body
was lifted and carried to the ambulance
station, where the doctor examined the
patient. He was evidently in a slight
delirium. ... .
“What is he muttering to himself ! asked
one of the bearers.
“Something about monkeys,” said the
doctor. “He’ll be all right 500 n.... Still
muttering about monkeys!”
The doctor asked an attendant to turn out
the man’s pockets. From the papers he found
the man’s name and address. He lived quite
near the entrance gates,
“He’ll be all right soon,” said the doctor,
“I’ll look after him till he comes round.”
The crowd dispersed.
The unconscious thing on the table wasn’t
there at all. His mind had leapt back to
a vast sombre shade, in a humid heat. It
had been his home for years, for myriads of
years. A place of enormous trees, matted
with vegetation, delightful to swing on. He
had hardly known the ground ; his home was
high up op the trees. No sunlight penetrated
to the rotting leaves. The forest was filled
with the odor of decay. In the middle of the
day there was a sombre silence, except for
the sharp shriek of some murdered lithe,
little animal. That had been his home, and
the home of his people, from the beginning of
things. It was a delightful place to live in,
free from the vague huge animals that
prowled between the shadows. There he had
lived; there he had always lived. This won-
derful world of matted vegetation sheltered
by the green roof overhead was his world.
How homely it was, with his young family
and his good life!
So safe they had been! But now a new
enemy had invaded their province, a strange
intruder, like a monkey. At their first sight of
the stranger they had felt afraid. There was
something ominous in the pigmy thing. There
had been strange noises, too, loud noises....
He had not known how it had happened,
Somehow something had caught his foot in a
noose, lie had bitten the entangling thing;
but his teeth, sharp enough, had grated as
they bit. He was prisoned, reft from his
family, and cast into a dark place. Useless
his efforts to escape! In his prison lie had
wondered what death awaited him.
At last lie had found friends—in a pit,
happy to be alive. But it was not his
beloved forests, with their clammy atmo-
sphere; here the sunlight always shone. Yet
no harm was done to him. Day after day
food was set out—good food, and so much
that it could not all be eaten.
What bothered him most was his naked-
ness. It was true that lie had liis fur on: it
kept him warm. But that ring of strange
creatures peering down over the parapet —
they bothered him! He wondered who they
were that had prisoned him there. It
seemed to him that he was being kept in the
pit for other beings to laugh at.
A superb race truly they were. Clothed,
too, in strange and beautiful textures falling
in magnificence from their shoulders! It
seemed to him, going through his futile tricks,
climbing up and down the trees, that they
did not belong to this earth. Visitors, it
might be, from another sphere and now the
overlords of the world—a. new race from
which evolution had drained out the monkey-
strain! To them the humans in their turn
had gone under in their rotten civilisation ;
now this new order of beings remained
supreme. After all, man had been a poor
thing to rule the globe.
The humans, here in the human-pit with
him* he now realised were merely the rem-
nant of a civilisation that, like so many
prehistoric races, had been sapped of their
powers, and their place taken in a new
orf ] er _
That was it! Makeshift humans, he and
the others were, preserved for amusement,
to pass away a beautiful afternoon. So that
was the end of the human race—gone under
to superior demi-gods!
One, leaning over the parapet, flung a pea-
nut into the pit, and it hit him on the nose.
It did not hurt him, but it enraged him.
He stamped angrily upon the beaten soil.
A roar of derisive laughter echoed his futile
stampings, and that, it seemed, was what the
beings up above were waiting for.
The spectators delighted in cruelty. In
all ages the populace had found joy in de-
liberately-inflicted pain. In the human’s
effort to escape from the fusillade of stones
flung by the superior beings, he was ham-
pered by the yellow chain that confined him.
attached to the yellow metal band about lus
waist. There was no shelter from the mis-
siles that were showered upon him. What
did it matter to the beings above whether
the rebel was killed? There were many
more. Yet the man, with a last brave
effort, screamed defiance at his torturers.
He would die fighting; he would show those
devils that lie was a Man !
It was great fun for the massed spec-
tators. The unarmed and naked thing was
doomed. It was a child, 'amazingly beautiful,
that flung the last stone at the cowering,
abject little man. He was glad to die.
On the table the injured sight-seer showed
signs of recovering. He caine-to with a
shudder. From his white lips issued a faint
little scream of agony. He opened his eyes.
“You’ll be all right now,” said a sympa-
thetic voice. “Head’s throbbing a bit, no
doubt. No need for the ambulance; your
car is waiting at the gates.”
He was taken to his home, and his wife
put him, dressed as he was, upon his bed,
and made him comfortable.
“There’s something worrying you,” said
his wife.
“Something is chafing me,” he said,
“round my waist.”
“Let me see,” she insisted.
Around her husband’s waist was a yellow
belt that had apparently been moulded on
him. At one place there was attached a
broken chain of the same dull metal.
It did not take long to file through the
band, and she twisted the metal belt off.
Later she carefully swept up the filings.
The man turned in his bed, sighed with
a great relief and fell into an easy sleep.
The Cactus and the Ivy.
Tlie cactus and the ivy meet
In many a still suburban street,
Of pine and pepperina trees,
In towns of the antipodes,
Where shine the scarlet nuytsia flames.
By gates inscribed with English names.
Behind those stones facades you’ll find
A like diversity of mind;
A mind that creeps and clings, and weaves
A mesh of tiny thoughts like leaves
To hold a hapless giant in thrall,
As the ivy holds the wall;
Another heart that can but stand
Like the cactus in the sand,
Harsh and forbidding and alone —
A man in armor turned to stone —
And raise imploring arms on high
For ever to the empty sky.
So in some still suburban street
The cactus and the ivy meet.
N.S.W.
SYDNEY GORDUN.


■ h:
:\S‘
m
m
■' i.
WESTING HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency-
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AOSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents— IIOLJIES <k CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office —03-107 Featherston Street, iVelllnKtnn.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House/* 485 Botirlte Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., JLTD., Adelaide. S.A.
u
Advertise in
Queenslander”
QUEENSLAND’S BRIGHT NATIONAL WEEKLY
PICTORIAL.
The Queenslander” covers the whole of Queensland and
Northern Rivers of New South Wales. All Agricultural,
Farming, Grazing, Fruit and Sugar-growing areas are reached,
as well as Mining and Oilfields and Timber Districts.
HAS A SOLID “RIGHT - INTO - THE - HOME” CIRCULATION.
Published by The Brisbane Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
Courier Buidings, Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Rep.: Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 85007.
“THE AGE”
Established 185 if.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
Competition in business is too keen and the
struggle too tense to SPECULATE in news-
paper space.
The actual results from advertising depend
upon the media used, and no amount of care
and thought and study is too great to expend
on this subject.
If you want to reach the Victorian public,
follow the lead of men who have tried and
KNOW. Appeal to them through “THE AGE,”
which others have found to bo productive. Get
the benefit of 75 years’ specialised effort in
supplying the needs of 123,533 daily sub-
scribers who demand an accurate and complete
news service of the world’s happenings.
“THE AGE”
circulation is in reality a body of
readers which'•has been organised
into a body of Purchasers.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody,
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements .
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate, agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price 1 Id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, 133 a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town and
Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and each
issue i 3 eagerly read by men, women and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays. Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYLNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 228
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: ‘Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
tor the original.
WOUENFABR
'DIFFERENT*
V
f#
ft
vs.
A WOMAN’S sensibilities
are finer, her enthusiasms
deeper than man's. She
overworks, overplays, “ lives
on her nerves ” and is nearly
always constipated and suffers.
Women need Beecham’s Pills.
They bring colour to the
cheeks, sparkle to the eyes,
and quiet to the nerves by
stimulating healthy digestion
and regular complete elim-
ination.
Beecham’s Pills enable
woman to be at her best.
■
[Wit
ŵ
VoL 5.
TUESDAY, JULY 30i 1929
No. 361 ,
•sSSSBfcw - •
1
THIS WEEK’S TREE PATTERN
(See page 64)
64 Pages
of
Reading fof the Home.
STORIES, VERSE, SPECIAL
ARTICLES
Fashions., Needlework
Health, Household,
Books, etc* |
Publishes! Vy
ẁ
Over 160,000 Copies Sold Every Week
w
■wv
(5^
1
o
mV
0°
AC?


For the first time . . .
CLASSIC ART deliberately
utilized in motor car design
mww-
vjOlk ijp-' &,/ .v-.vV, < * - *— ~ K’vfa, o
2£&
t i
my
•M v ,S
/. '
\
1
=*s
5S
jnaaw»<^
NOTE how the dynamic symmetry of Chrysler
fender contours and wheels expresses the very
essence of life and motion, just as do their counter -
parts in the “wave border ’’ of the classic master-
pieces of architecture and design.
THAT Chrysler motor cars are so differ-
ent in appearance from all other
motor cars is not to be wondered at in
view of the unique plan by which their
remarkable beauty has been attained.
Chrysler engineers recognized, as no others
had recognized, that true beauty in auto-
mobile design must come, not from a
chance inspiration of individual designers,
but from a conscious and deliberate plan.
Guided by glorious precedents in art,
architecture and design, they applied the
authentic forms of beauty which have come
down the centuries unchallenged and un-
surpassed and translated them into terms
of motor car utility and beauty.
It is because Chrysler style and beauty have
this secure artistic foundation that they have
won the admiration and enthusiasm of
thousands upon thousands the country over.
And motorists may depend upon it that
Chrysler style and beauty will always iJe fin-
er, because they draw their inspiration from
the recognized principles of classic art.
ii
m:
~r>~.\
V"VC^B
- W^X
Fr
«!■
flr
A
s£i4^Yi
The New Chrysler "65.” The New Chrysler ”75.’
The New Chrysler Imperial.
CHRYSLER
A CHRYSLER MOTORS PRODUCT CUJ
ẃ
New South W ales Larke, Neave & Carter Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Collins Motors Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Ward Motors Limited, Brisbane
West Australia . . . Wm. Attwood Motors Ltd., Perth
South Australia .... O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania Metro Motors Pty. Ltd., Hobart
New Zealand ....... Todd Motor Company, Wellington
New Guinea W. R. Carpenter & Co. Ltd., Rabaul
