

Cine
FOR HOME MOVIES
*
smartest
Newest and smartest of ideas!
Just imagine making your own
black and white or natural color
“movies” of friends, family,
travels, everything. . . .
Newest and smartest! Cine-
Kodak BB—so easy to use —so
cleverly designed—so beautiful in
its shining chromium fittings and
rich-colored leathers. To see it
is to want it for your own!
Has f/1.9 lens—is adaptable to Kodacolor and telephoto work. Embodies new
half-speed feature-takes fifty feet at a loading.
In blue, brown, black or grey leather with carrying case to match. Price, £33.
Deferred payments may be arranged.
;
'\V,
'\
it*
s»
*
Of all Kodak Dealers and
KODAK
(Australasia) Pty., Ltd.
379 George Street, and 108 Market Street, Sydney.
“The Block,” 284 Collins Street, and 161 Swanston Street,
Melbourne,
250-52 Queen Street, Brisbane. 45 Elizabeth Street, Hhbart.
37 Rundle Street, Adelaide. 662 Hay Street, Perth.
Ruthven Street, Toowoomba. Flinders Street, Townsville.
East Street, Rockhampton.
294 Lambton Quay, Wellington, N.Z,
Kodak
The Bulletin
/ULq fvtUfo} HksL WhtMo Imh CcoCtoOvKA.
Vol. 50.—N0. 2598.
Wednesday, November 27, 1929.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Catalogue
WRITE for th
" terms, and lists on all subjects, whi
MI vrloU r»-,o<- +'»><*« ,-,v> armli/M+in^
Story Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON !
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write jor Profit,
advertised in the Sydney Bul:
My Name
LIETI-W
fiPi
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
SN-
r in
V
HW 3
FEEL ILL?—JUST TRY THIS
NO MORE HEADACHES, STOMACH ACHES, OR TIRED LIMBS!
NEW VIGOR IN FEW MINUTES!
New lift; and energy is being given to
thousands by Cream of Yeast! This is the
wonderful new brain, nerve and blood topic
that has superseded Aspirin in all its forms,
and is the most popular tonic wherever
introduced. The reason for the phenomenal
success of Cream of Yeast is in the quick
and obvious benefits it gives. There is no
arguing about the value of Cream of Yeast!
If you have a raging headache that defies
everything else, and Cream of Yeast stops it
in 4 minutes you know it’s good ! If you
have indigestion, arid Cream of Yeast rids
you of it in' 3 minutes you must, believe in
it! And these things Cream of Yeast will
do, as well as others. It will banish depres-
sion, brain fag, irritability, dizziness, periodi-
cal pains and “nerves”—all in a few minutes.
It will clear up boils, pimples and skin
troubles like magic: will conquer catarrh-
colds, influenza and rheumatic complaints
in double-quick time, and as a lightning pick-
me-up it has no rival. It costs so little, too!
You can get a flask of 24 Cream of Yeast
Tablets for 1/11 from any chemist, grocer
or store, or a big flask of 48 tablets for 3/fi.
So wonderful and uniformly successful are
the results achieved that the distributors,
Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Build-
ing, Sydney, guarantee money back to anyone
purchasing a flask and failing to get every
satisfaction from it. Supplies available
everywhere.
// • 7
Well Worth
Looking At
because she uses
Cntieura
It is not to be wondered at that
her skin is clear and healthy,
and her hair Justrous. She has
found the secret of beauty in
CUTICURA OINTMENT
and CUTICURA SOAR
Her secret is yours! Follow
her example today!
Soap la, Ointment le. and 2«.
Talcum Is. 3d. Sample each tree.
Address: "R. Towns d; Co..
Sydney, N. S. W."
FOR
ARCHITECTS,'ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
»:-•
‘ti.
53WTSSH
MADE
aaami mklici
u OR 33 J« d
WITH
his purchase of space
in “The Telegraph”
the advertiser acquires
the permanent interest
of an organisation
containing experts on
every aspect of the
printing business.
AND-
both reader and pur-
chaser appreciate the
workmanship.
The Telegraph
Newspaper Co. Ltd.
Queen Street,
Brisbane.
/ , ' •- v ~ J .. ’ , \ v
if any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
1 6 ant^,
' POWDER 1 :
A
C. UK WA
ss
PS
Kills Flies and Insects
Instantly.
Sold everywhere, or forward
2/- or 1/- in stamps to
Hudson’s Eumenthol
Chemical Co., Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
The Red Page
The Shock Drama
In the old days when in “The Fiend of
Limehouse” the handsome Percy Glueface
smote the evil Fordyce Allswill on the-
arriere pensee, thereby achieving the boon
of a fair maid’s love, nine-tenths of the
trousers in front felt that they were fdled
with replicas of the Belvideres on stage.
Possibly a quota of the dear things present
felt that they would inspire rash thoughts
in Allswill, if given the chance; but the
truth was that the people saw in the melo-
drama of the time some remote memoir
of themselves, some troubled souvenir of
the cosmos in which they ached and
throbbed. After all, the old melodrama was
life, with tripled helpings of curse and kiss-
in-the-ring.
The wonderful fellows with the mar-
celled moustachios; the Muriels with the
infinite trust and the china eyes; the slimy
Gustavs who raked the escritoires and stole
the wills; the Bible-class Egberts and dash-
ing sailors—the whole hobgoblinalia of the
garrets and joints have joined the discards
along with the glib Solons of Wilde and
Maugham. And in their stead we have an
infinitely less enchanting world—a world of
crooks and green-faced ’tecs wherein the
automatic, the dagger and the poison hold
sway, and the Morse of all the emotions
is a shriek or a yell. Does an emi-
nent forward of the All Black-outs com-
pose a drama wherein a Czecho-Slovakian
bartender falls through 18 trapdoors in an
effort to deprive the Duchess of Gloomski
of her emerald and topaz manicure set,
then another graduate from the same Sor-
bonne devises means whereby a spaghetti
farmer from Sardinia has only to drop
through 16 traps in an effort to deprive the
Countess of Jerusalem of her gold set, of
consomme silencers. Thus it goes on in
indistinguishable variations. Plagiarism of
plagiarism: all is plagiarism. No genius of
the clutching hand and the sliding panel
can offer a new mode of destroying the
sweet and virtuous without keyhole stu-
dents of Edgar Wallace infringing his copy-
right in a million instances.
The advent of “The Bat” caused the pre-
viously lethargic Union of Stencillers to
up tools and get to work. What perturbed
them was not the production of grisly holo-
causts, but the artistic canon which de-
manded that the identity of the murderer
and the pursuing detective should escape
the astutest intelligence in front until a
tick or two before the close. The incredible
had to be more incredible, the preposterous
bounce to the heights of lunacy. So coher-
ence said “Addio!” and Reason ran shriek-
ing from the theatre in its shirt.
Then began an era of quaint dramaturgic
whims in which the moron was the Rolls-
Royce of the species, and a sleuth who
missed clues as big as whales was con-
sidered the Buddha of acumen. In this
sort of drama Wee Wah Wung, the ex-
mandarin, would fill four castles and a
town hall full of flat-faced myrmidons and
himself enter England disguised as a Boy
Scout for the purpose of convincing the
Duke of Borneo that his possession of the
ivory toothpick purloined by an ancestor
from the Rajah of Bloomsbury circa 1574
n.C. was threatening the peace of Siberia.
In this sort of drama Alphonse Zola, alias
George Bernard Garvice, alias the “Jackal,”
would try to win the 24-carat heart of Alys
de Yeoville, proceeding delicately in his
wooing by means of a basket of rattle-
snakes, a T.N.T. cocktail and six blackouts,
whilst keeping an eye peeled for her papa’s
jealously-guarded recipe for a backache
plaster, which is greatly coveted by the
mystic Graf von Dachshund, nonchalantly
flourished as a plumber for two minutes in
Act 11. In this sort of drama a gang of
international conspirators, wearing the
heavy neutral expressions of a group of
Einsteins at a philatelists’ soiree, would un-
dermine the Bank of England and crowd
three acts with cryptograms and the sur-
plus from Woolwich Arsenal in an effort to
smuggle soap into Mayfair. In this drama
but why proceed? Anything can hap-
pen in it —and nothing. In it anybody is
nobody, and nobody everybody. In it a
madhouse imagination is as suavely per-
suasive as a first-rate brain. In it the
Arsene Lupins whirl and whisper, whisper
and whirl, and only Edgar Wallace is an
intellectual stiffneck in insisting on heaving
into his goulashes an occasional bit of
authentic detective. Though Edgar often
takes the corridors of nightmare with hay-
stacks in his hair, he is still a Shylock for
his pound of Holmes.
It is the habit to call the shock play
American, and I have read discourses by
profound jay thinkers charging Broadway
with the invention of drama which pro-
vides a field day for automatics. But it
is notorious that the American theatre is
immune from originality in technique and
form. All of its so-called novelties in light-
ing, production, pivotal stages and so forth
are translated innovations: there is nearly
always some European directing its pre-
mieres. The crook play of New York, the
parent of the shock play of to-day, emi-
grated from Berlin, Vienna or Buda-Pesth
more than a decade ago, and the stranger
was welcomed like a new synthetic grog. I
hesitate to say how long ago I became
acquainted with such Continental opera as
‘‘Der Obergauner’ (Super-Scoundrels), but
they were much prior to the epoch of
“Cheating Cheaters” (incidentally, the title
is a plagiarism of “Cheated Cheaters” issued
in German as “Betrogene Betriiger”) with
which Max Marcin strove to rattle the
plebs. The tempo of those elaborately
T< utonised themes was often suggestive of
a mastodon essaying the polka, but the
pieces had the established fortes of laby-
rinthine motives and sanguinary intent. All
that the American imitator did to them
was to change their Herrs into guys and
brisk them up.
C. R. BRADISH.
The Navigators.
It is a tribute to the care with which the
beginnings of this country are being investi-
gated and examined that of the works
published about them in the last couple of
decades hardly any have been without merit.
Some have been truly invaluable. The
works of the late Professor Wood, of Ida
Lee, Marion Phillips, Thomas Dunbabin
and several others have given a stimulus to
the study of Australian history that en-
courages and ensures its continuance along
the right lines. Now comes Professor Ernest
Scott’s Australian Discovery (Dent; Angus
and Robertson), in two volumes, of which
the first is concerned with discovery by sea.
The record of the navigators who had
to do with finally placing Australia on the
map is a very long one, in which the Portu-
guese, Spanish, Dutch, English and French
all had a share. From Magellan’s voyage
across the Pacific in 1521 to Matthew
Flinders’s circumnavigation of Australia in
1803 is all but three centuries, and right
through that long period the sailormen were
at. work in settling the theory of a southern
continent—sometimes unconscious of the
real part they were playing in the solution
of the problem, and sometimes, as in the
eases of Tasman, Dampier and Gook, with
their objects clearly and exactly defined for
them. Neither Magellan nor Drake, when
57 years later he sailed round the world,
had any notion that he was contributing
to civilisation’s knowledge of the legendary
continent between the equator and the
southern polar regions, but their voyages
helped in the adventures of Torres and
Quiros, and the latter were the inspiration
of the discoveries attempted and achieved
by the Dutch. It was jealousy of the Dutch
that caused the British Admiralty to dis-
patch Dampier in H.M.S. Roebuck (1699)
to find out all he could about the country
he had visited as a pirate in the Cygnet.
Bouvet, Byron, Wallis and Carteret came
into the Pacific on voyages that were natural
sequels to those of Abel Tasman and Will
Dampier, Finally, Cook settled for all
time the question of where the southern
continent might be, and Matthew Flinders,
almost equally great as a navigator,
defined its outline and extent.
The first volume of Professor Scott’s
book is simply the story of the navigators
told by themselves. It gives in the language
—or rather, in translations of the languages
—of the original narrators the story of the
most important phases of the long and
gradual process of discovery. Says the author
in his introduction:—
Here are large extracts from the histories of the
voyages, of Tasman, Dampier, and Flinders,
with some glimpses of the tragedies which pertain
to the exploration of the south. More than thm
centuries ago Shakspeare was much interested in a
map which he saw in a. copy of Hakluyt’s “Voyages,"
and, according to his habit of turning everything
which he saw in books or in nature into .imagery
for his plays, adroitly used it when he made Maria
in “Twelfth Night” say of Malvolio, “He doth
smile liis face into more lines than are in the new
map with the augmentation of the Indies.” “The
augmentation of the Indies” —for the new map showed
some lands which Shakspeare had not seen upon a
map before. This book illustrates that process of
augmentation, and shows how an imaginary con-
tinent was wiped off to make way ' for the real
world of the south.
The volume opens with the quaint
memorial of Dr. Juan Arias to King Philip
111. of Spain concerning the urgency of
Spanish activity in southern seas:—
For the English and Dutch heretics, whom the
Devil unites for this purpose by every means in his
power, most diligently continue the exploration,
discovery and colonisation of the principal ports of
this large part of the world in the Pacific Ocean,
and sow in it the most pernicious poisons of their
apostasy, which they put forth with the most pressing
anxiety in advance of us, who should put forth the
sovereign light of the gospel.
Torres, Quiros, Tasman, Pelsart, Dampier,
Cook, Bligh, Laperouse and Flinders either
tell their own stories or have them told
for them by contemporaries, with brief in-
troductory remarks by Professor Scott.
Nine maps are reproduced from rare publi-
cations in the British Museum and in the
possession of the Hakluyt Society, and
portraits' of Magellan, Sir Francis Drake,
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


Men should dress
their feet for
Good Appearance
“Truth in Advertising ” expresses Anthony
Horderns' belief in sound trading methods.
Oh
Florsheim Shoes
answer every requirement of style, good taste, service and price
Anthony Horderns’ invariably keep their stock replete with the newest models
of Florsheim shoes. We have just opened a new model Florsheim shoe stocked
in Patent Leather, Box and Tan Calf. It can be supplied in three distinct widths,
also half sizes.
The materials used in the manufacture of these shoes are the finest procurable.
We consider it a pleasure to fit such a perfect shoe. You will undoubtedly find
it a pleasure to wear it. Three styles, three widths, three leathers,
one price. Pair
All
(In the Men’s Footwear Department, Ground Floor. We pay carnage.)
65/-
m
mm
n
m
m
i
m
as
a
»
■Pt
m
m
Hats that
Express Individuality
Some hats are just hats, but these soft felts
that Anthony Horderns’ are offering are ones
that can be made to express individuality!
Made of fine quality pliable felt, the brim
can be shaped to suit the face of the wearer.
And, out of the wide range of colors, exactly
the right shade for the individual may be found.
Colors include Pearl, French Grey, Zinc,
Steel, Slate, Fawns and the new light Pastel
Shades. These hats have best quality silk
trimmings and greaseproof leathers. Similar
quality and colors are obtainable in shaped
brims with bindings. The moderate
price is
25/-
{Department—Ground Floor, George Street. We pay carnage.)
(THE SENIOR STORE).
Postal Address:
Box 27120, G.P.O .
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
"Phone:
Day and Night


LOWER COST OF OPERATION
r
i
i
T
P
D.
I.Y-
-r-
i *
©
Q
V'
WITH MANY ADVANTAGES
found on no other
Low priced cars . . . •
m
m
“ Finger-Tip Control” —A
single button starts the engine
and. operates lights and horn.
MODERN and scientific engineering
practice makes the New Superior
Whippet the most advanced of inexpensive
cars. Whippet offers many of the
important mechanical features incorporated
in cars costing many pounds more. The
most notable advantages are full forced feed
lubrication system, four-wheel brakes, timken
bearings throughout, semi-elliptic springs
advantages that any qualified engineer would
instantly recommend.
Other important points of Whippet’s superiority include
finger-tip control, outstanding beauty of line, color and
finish; extra-long wheelbase, with larger bodies and
roomier interiors. Remarkable operating economy,
resulting from dependable performance and low petrol
consumption thirty and more miles to the gallon has
resulted in the Whippet’s world-wide popularity.
THE SUPERIOR
c
r
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LTD.,
148-150 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
62-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide, S.A.
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
53-63 Bathurst Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
OVERLAND VICTORIA PTY., LTD.,
117-121 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, Vic.
ADAMS MOTORS, LTD.,
442 Murray Street, Perth, W.A.
E. G. EAGER & SON, LTD.,
Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane, Q.


y
K
j
i
m -mi'
m
"m
i - *.
Let HILLIER 5
be your Father Xmas!
In the famous Red Box—posted to you the day they are made.
CHOCOLATES
-166 Pitt Street
S Y~D N E 'T'
PIUCES
5/6. IO/. 11/b.
20/ and 30/
162
3/
CPATON)
Anthony van Diemen, Captain Cook, George
Bass and Matthew Flinders illustrate the
quoted narratives. The maps and prints
were chosen and arranged by Kathleen
Ussher.
This volume of “Australian Discovery is
really a complete work in itself, and might
stand alone without any reference to its
companion—not yet available for review.
It widl be of the utmost value to students of
Australian history, and add much to the
obligations they are already under to Pro-
fessor Scott for many years of sound and
illuminating work.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
“A Clerk of Oxenford”
Sladen was our industrious English antho-
logical forefather; he compiled “A Century
of Australian Song” as far back as 1888; and,
whatever we say for him or against him, we
must say that he personally read his books,
or many of them, and originally chose his
extracts, or some of them. Because there
was so very little on the washing line when
Sladen prowled.
Professor Stable, in his recently published
“High Road of Australian Verse,” acknow-
ledges a debt in many contemporary quar-
ters, particularly to Serle’s “Bibliography.”
He does not acknowledge his considerable
debt to Sladen. Ido not emphasise Dar-
win, Barron Field or Holdsworth; since it
is not clear that Professor Stable did not
discover those road-marks for himself. I
do emphasise Lang, Horne and Barrington-
Carter, though I cannot prove that Professor
Stable, after reading sedulously and faith-
fully, like a good anthologist, all Lang’s
writings in verse, and all Horne’s writings
in verse, was not brought, in the exercise
of his liberal taste and his independent
judgment, to choose precisely the extracts
from Lang and Horne that Sladen chose;
and no other extracts.
The Barrington-Carter case accuses Pro-
fessor Stable’s compilation with the bleed-
ing wounds of Sladen’s blundering mis-
prints, carefully reproduced by the Profes-
sor of English Literature in Brisbane Uni-
versity at this day—2s years after Edward
Petherick found the “Barrington Prologue”
in Susannah Watts’s collection, and told his
discovery to Melbourne Argus (4/6/’O4) in
a letter further expounded by that good
student of Australian letters E. Wilson
Dobbs.
Professor Stable has relied on Serle; and
unluckily has met one of Serle’s not very
numerous errors. Serle writes: “The famous
‘Prologue to the Revenge,’ usually attri-
buted to Barrington, will be found reprinted
in Sladen’s ‘A Century of Australian Song.’
In all probability he did not write it.” This
in 1925, 21 years after Petherick showed
conclusively that Barrington did not write
it. O, Percival!
Sladen in 1888 knew no better; but he
should have known Gay’s famous “Beggar’s
Opera,” to which the “Prologue” so often
aptly refers. Two characters in the “Beg-
gar’s Opera” are Macheath, the highway-
man, and Lockit, the turnkey. Sladen mis-
prints Macheath “Macbeth” and Lockit
“Tockit.” Professor Stable, with the
Oxford University Press behind him, con-
scientiously misprints “Macbeth” and
“Tockit” too. And he reproduces Sladen’s
garbled version of the lines now attributed
to Carter, an eighteenth-century English
minor writer.
Sladen heads the lines “Prologue to ‘The
Revenge.’ ” So does Professor Stable.
They were not written or played, even by
early British criminals, as a- prologue to
“The Revenge,” a successful English
eighteenth-century tragedy by a celebrated
English eighteenth-century writer —Edward
Young, author of that “best-seller” “Night
Thoughts.” More of us should read it; it
is still tragic.
A. G. S.
Australian Gift Books
A note to the Red Page from the secre-
tary to the Society of Australian Com-
posers and Authors, which has Steele Rudd
for president:—
In pursuance of our campaign to induce the
public to buy books by Australian writers as Christ-
mas gifts and thereby encourage local talent, I
have been instructed to write you and ask for your
valued assistance. The Bulletin is so well known
for its ever-ready encouragement of Australian
writers, and has done so much to encourage the
talent in our midst, that the Society of Australian
Composers and Authors feels sure that such assist-
ance will not be denied us.
We have written to the leading Sydney booksellers
asking them to make special efforts to advertise
Australian works this year, and also have circularised
over 200 branches of the Country Women’s Assoc.,
which has a membership of more than 12,000 in
N. S. Wales alone, asking them to help in the
campaign.
The society launches its campaign in a
great year. Looking back through the Red
Page files for the last 12 months there is
scarcely a week in which some Australian
book has not been reviewed, and the list
includes such excellent things as A. H.
Chisholm’s “Birds and Green Places”; Nettie
Palmer’s “An Australian Story Book”; R.
I). Fitzgerald’s book of poems, “To Meet
the Sun”; M. G. Skipper’s wonderful child-
ren’s book, “The Meeting Pool,” which has
been described as the “best thing since
‘When We Were Young’”; Henry Handel
Richardson’s great novel “Ultima Thule”;
Professor Baldwin Spencer’s “Wanderings in
Wild Australia”; James Devaney’s tales of
the abo., “The Vanished Tribes”; Katharine
Susannah Prichard’s powerful “Coonardoo”;
and many others. No more suitable gift could
be made to a reader than The Bulletin
Novel Competition prize winner, “A House
Is Built,” and during the year a Red Page
reviewer spoke in the highest terms of “Up
the Country,” by Brent of Bin Bin. Angus
and Robertson have just issued a “Term
of His Natural Life” complete as it first
appeared in serial form, and “The Adven-
tures of Ralph Rashleigh” is another im-
portant early-Australia book that comes to
mind. In addition there are new issues of
Lawson and all the other favorites that
can be obtained through any leading book-
seller.
A Satchel of Books
Ginger for Pluck, by Daniel Hamline
(Cornstalk), tells how Harry Ragnall went
as tutor to seven up-country pupils with a
reputation for mastering tutors and mastered
them. It is a pleasant adventure story, with
a dash of romance that should appeal to
bush-dwellers.
Flowers of Our Bush, by Estelle Thomson
(Read Press; Barker’s Bookstores, Bris-
bane). This booklet, descriptive in picture
and letterpress of the principal native
flowers of south-eastern Australia between
the sea and the Dividing Range, is so good
as to quicken the hope that Mrs. Thomson
will carry out her intention of producing
further booklets descriptive of the flora of
other parts. Six full-page plates are in
color, but the others are so well drawn that
they also satisfy. The notes are expertly
done, and the booklet has an introduction
by C. T. White, Bananaland’s Government
botanist.
Australia Beautiful. —Some of the people
who have been making futile attempts to
turn Australian scenery into movies should
profit by inspecting this Home pictorial
annual. Beautifully got up by Art in Aus-
tralia and printed by Arthur McQuitty,
it is a comprehensive representation of this
country’s scenic beauty. Sixteen color-plates
and 40 reproductions of photos make the bill
of contents.... United Press (Melb.) has
also made an excellent job of the “Table
Talk Annual”: the color plates are excel-
lent, and a pictorial journey up the Yarra
will be a delightful surprise to those who
don’t know the stream beyond Prince’s
Bridge.
The Boroughmonger, by R. 11. Mottram
(Ghatto and Windus; Iloycroft). Mottram
paints a skilled and in places a beautiful and
moving picture of life in East Anglia under
William IV. Lord Carstone, who schemes
(if the word may be applied to his Olympian
methods) to have his natural son, Theodore
Carston, made M.P. for Easthampton, is the
best portrait in a brilliant gallery. Unfor-
tunately the peer, in his stilted and solemn
magnificence, occasionally reminds the reader
of the hero of “Moby Dick” —if not of
Captain Hook. The plot, which is slight,
hangs on the conscienceless underground
engineering that went on at elections then,
as now.
The Secret History of Henrietta and
Memoirs, by Madame de la Fayette (Rout-
ledge). Henrietta, youngest child of Charles
1., who was exiled with her mother in France
and married Philippe of Orleans, emerges
from the “secret history,” practically an
autobiography dictated to La Fayette, as a
victim of jealousy her alleged gallantries
having been built up since through misin-
terpretation of a \\ id, which in the mean-
time lias changed its old meaning for a
more sinister one. The “Memoirs” are of
the Court of France, 1688-S9. The trans-
lations, by J. M. Shelmerdine, are a trifle
stodgy, but as examples of the lesser writ-
ings of one of the first to use the ingredi-
ents that principally make up all good novels
of to-day, both parts of the book are rich in
literary interest.
Gift Books. —Methuen has made an excel-
lent children’s (or adults’) book out of A.
A. Milne’s pick of the Christopher Robin
series of verse and stories with the origami
Shepard illustrations. It is called "The
Christopher Robin Story Book.” “The Child-
ren's Book of Hymns” is a fine collection,
with music included, and the usual Blackie
lavishness of full-page color illustrations.
Rose Fyleman adds another to her spiced.d
list of' child books with “Go Get Up’
(Methuen), illustrated by Deeie Merwin. In
“The Stove-Pipe Man and Sandy” (Dent),
Audrey Chalmers lets a small boy build a
living companion out of stove-pipes and go
adventuring on the high seas with p.rates
and into strange lands. Dent also publishes
“Sent to Coventry,” by Donalda Dickie,
wherein Bill is sent to a real Coventry for
shooting an arrow at the cat. 1 Well illus-
trated in line and color.
The Courts of the Morning (Hodder and
Stoughton; Dymocks) is built according t>
the traditional John Buchan plans and sp.ci-
fications. The moment the experienced
Buchan “fan” reads that Lord Clanroyden
(Sandy) has been recognised from the
R.Y.S. lawn at Cowes “dressed rather like
a shabby yacht’s hand" he knows that for
the next 400 pages the gallant fellow will
proceed, in a variety of disguises, from
this chivalrous insanity to that, until the
Bolshies are diddled and the girl is ready
to be married. All the old Buchan heroes,
heroines and villains are here. The setting
is new —the Republic of Olifa, at whose
northernmost extremity lie The Gardens of
the Morning. Beautifully written, elevating
as a leading article, packed with movie-like
incident and sentiment, and entirely'innocent
of humor.
Man and Animals in the New Hebrides,
by John R. Baker (Routledge). A scientific
account by a Cambridge naturalist, which
incidentally sheds a flood of light over the
subject of depopulation. Baker dismisses
most of the current theories and concludes
that “depopulation is due to diseases brought
by Europeans and to abortion, which is pro-
cured because the natives are depressed by
the large number of deaths from these
diseases.” Mission vessels are largely instru-
mental in spreading pneumonia. He cites the
case of Bishop Patteson, who, after visiting
Mota. reported the islanders as being in
splendid health. He returned in a fortnight
to find the inhabitants being wiped out by
influenza and dysentery, 27 adults dying
during his two days' stay, while many others
lay fainting and coughing. Baker suggests
that an island should be isolated and Euro-
peans forbidden to visit it for three years,
after which statistics could be taken; but
he hasn’t the slightest hope that such a
measure would be adopted.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be return ed unl(,ss stamps accompany.
G.W.R.: Quite well done, but we don’t see
where we can fit it in. . . .Maranoa: Goes over a track
that we’ve worn bare... .Jester: Thaiiks, but all
said already... .J.D.: Give it best for a few years.
. ...Fanuela: Don’t fancy your color scheme....
R.J.N.: It took the edge off the shears. .. .K.M.M.:
Too much wind about “Transplanted”.... F.S.C.:
Unepiployment sonnet gets no dole. .. . Ewol: “Song
of the River” put the Religious Editor off his
fishing.... Pat K. : Your vision of Hell lacks the
prime torture —a poet reading his works a10ud....
8.R.N.: Can't see any reason for apologising to
Kipling. . . .T.M.: Deserves something better. ...
T.W.N.: “Life Without Life” is a verse without
verse... .P.J.1.: Empty.... Henriette B.: Poor Jim
returned, slightly tear-stained.... P.F.: “From Dawn
to Dusk” makes a dull day....G.8.: “Voices” and
“The Street Preacher” say nothing. .. .R.K.P.: “Be
a Plumber” is advice that many aspiring poets
might profitably take. . . .Taiho: Anyway, it’s long.
. ...8.F.D.: “Requiem” wins crepe 0n1y... .E.E.M.:
Took two rounds to beat it... .E.K.: You can’t
qualify for . the veteran stakes yet... .E.R.8.: No
space for Yankee cheer-up verse. .. .11. P.: A fair
effort which doesn’t quite get there. .. .W.G.8.: That
fits you a 150... . J.W.: You’ll have to overcome the
quantity complex. .. .Pom: Beaten by a nose....
E.J.R.: Should do better later 0n.... Ace of Spades:
Biffed with the right bower.... Digger: You’re right,
but your verse isn’t.... Scrub-cutter: Enough of
Swaffer. .. .G.M.C.: Comment reserved out of respect
for your height and weight. .. .R.H.: Punter will
have to lament again. ... M.H.: It misses. Can’t
trace the earlier items. .. .L.8.H.: Put ’em in their
autograph-b00k5.... Shrdlu Etaoin: Cut out verse
and send to accountant... .J.M.: —
Now spring has gone
With her soft running laughter
And my truant heart
Has gone following after.
And one cheer that arose broke a jolly good rafter.
. ...R.W.: Spend a bit more thought on them....
1.G.: You’re amazingly careless.... App : It hurts to
send such good paper to the fire. . . .R.P.: Doesn’t
ring a tune from the cash-register. .. .Aus: You
should do well in the estate-agency line... .5.J.8.:
“The curse of the courses is slow-moving horses”
should be hung up in all the best kindergartens....
P.R.: Sounds like verse, but content is weak....
M.l'.P.: Can’t raise enthusiasm for love stirred by
a face on the movies F.H.: “Night on the River”
has joined the ebb post. .. .W.J.: An idea, but you
muddled it 8.A.: “On Wings of Thought” you
soon run out of petrol.... M.H.: Sorry, but it, too,
misses.... Co S.: Held, pending instructions whether
you’d prefer it burnt or drowned. .. .L.M.8.: Our
great pioneers:—
I saw what now are rolling plains,
Forests deep and dense ;
I saw what was a river bed
Is now a wire fence.
T.J.H.: Sorry Donovan died. Coffin provided.
.. . . J.McK. : No glitter in that bucketful. .. .11.E.P.:
Some fine lines, but taken altogether verses don’t
live up to them. .. .D.S.: Nothing in that 0ne....
Don. S.: The effort is too visible. .. .M.E.M.:
“Christmas Outback” seems to be mostly humps....
J.E.H.: See no reason to doubt that verse you heard
from an old-time stockman hasn’t been published.
....Ena: Not for this shop, but you might place it
somewhere.... Pen: Pallid. .. .Ground F.: Well, if
you insist: —-
He stands in the bar-room place
Having a drink on his own,
Drinking to his disgrace
The liquor that keeps him from home.
A woman enters and rattles
A box before his eyes,
Saying, “Something, kind sir, please give me,
For toys for Children’s Christmas surprise.”
And what does he give, do you think,
This creature besotten with drink ?
Does he give her a penny? No! Zounds!
He gives her his all —Seven Pounds.
Good old Zounds!... .A.H.: Purple frogs ana
green cats —there’s certainly a bit of color in it....
S.C.: “Vice lowers its siren head and slobbers in
its soul.” Well, that’s interesting. It never used
to in our day... . W.T-W.: Not at all bad, but
it’s been done so often.... Prof. Nugget: Not
a ’weight to the t0n.... J.E.S.: And you call
it a short story! H.M.K.: Regret can’t use
M. Over-sexed. .. . J.C.: “The Wrong Cue” pockets
nothing F.C.M.: Snake yam bashed D. 8.:
Decline to believe that Guy Fawkes v'as a Jew
A 1: Personal pars, about union secretaries and
organisers who want to become Labor members leave
us cold. There are about 8000 union secretaries
and organisers in Australia, and fully 7000 want to
become Labor members.... Marble B.: Stanifoi th
Smith was appointed Administrator of Papua after
his retirement from the Senate in 1906 ; he went
back to Westralia to enlist. He served for upwards
of three years, and became a lieutenant in the 44th
B'+talion.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.S.: Johnnies look as if they’d strayed from a
nineteenth-century Tailor and Cutter. .. .N.L.H.:
Still running. .. .K.C.F.: Nothing for that night-
mare. .. .G.L.: Shows promise, but you’ll have to
send jokes with ’em M.M.R.: Not this week
N. : Out goes “The Light of His Life”. .. . J.E.T.:
It needs a lot of licking into shape—and that’s
your job J.H.R.: Passable drawing; a chance
for you with study. .. .M.M.: You should place them
somewhere M.T.: Re-draw it in Indian ink and
let us have another look at it. .. . H.S.W.: Wobbly.
.K.H.: Tilt of floor and counter suggests deck
of a wallowing ship T.C.C.W.: At the bottom of
the class. .. .F.1.C.: Checkmated. .. .8.P.: Both old
. ...A.D.: It may be original but it won’t fetch
a cheque C.G.T.: That political see-saw is
borrowed A.M.C.: With a little more polish you
ought to And buyers V.G.: Tommy’s darling was
left out in the cold A.J.: Poor copy of an
American Judge drawing E.P.: So it’s a bullock
team. Thanks for telling R.K.P.: No job for
your plumber.


FAMOUS
PORT
■ Em
111
i m AM
tf. A
t
'"0\ %.
-J
§ dp
8 * *4#^
mBB»I
ifcw^ :


The Bulletin
VoL 50. —No. 2598.
November 27, 1929.
THANK GOD WE SAVED ARBITRATION!
“The conference called by Mr. Scullin to settle the trouble in the coal industry was abortive”....
FIRST UNION HEAD: “’Sail right, Bill, the conference didn’t come to anything.”
SECOND DITTO: “No, but if we hadn’t busted up Bruce and saved the sacred principle of arbitration, the blighters might have taken the whole thing out of our
hands and settled it.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
21i George Street, Sydney; Box 252188.
Victoria: IH-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 21/9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia : S 3 Barrack Street , Perth.
London : 86 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Regent 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, 7s.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; S months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom.- Jjoz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional ! t oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: Ijoz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
“SHOCK” PLAYS.—By C. R. Bradish . . .• 2
PROF. SCOTT'S “AUSTRALIAN DISCOVERY”—
By J. H. M. Abbott 2
PROF. STABLE’S "AUSTRALIAN VERSE”—
By A.QtS. . . 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . ■ . 5
THE FRONT PAGE. BY LEASON 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
SAME OLD THEODORE! . . . . . . 8
WHAT’S BEST FOR VICTORIA ? . . . . 8
STITCHING SHIRTS IN SUVA.—
By Arthur H. Adams . . . . 8
THE SCULLIN FLABINET 8
TRAGEDY OF QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS
By Peter Airey, ex-Treasurer .. .. 8
SHOULD DOCTORS EVER KILL?—
By a Surgeon . . . . . . .. 9
“POOR, SILLY PUP,” a cartoon by Scorfield .. 9
POLITICAL POINTS 10
A QUEENSLAND CARTOON BY lAN GALL.. 10
POVERTY POINT 11
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 11
PERSONAL (with three caricatures) .. ..13
SOCIETY (with four drawings) .. .. 14, 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
TOOTHS 18
MT. LYELL 18
TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY . . 18
CLIFFORD LOVE & CO 18
UNITED DISTRIBUTORS—CAN ANY-
THING BE SAVED FROM THE WRECK?.. 20
ABORIGINALITIES (with four drawings) 23, 25
Free Service Department -- -• ..26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 32
SUPER. AFTER DROUGHT 28
FODDER FOR DROUGHTY FARMS .. ..28
THE POTATO MOTH 28
SMOKE-OH (with three drawings) . . .. 34
PEN AND PICTURE 37
SHOULD “THE COCK-EYED WORLD”
BE SHOWN? 37
NEWEST TALKIES 37
SPORTING (illustrated) 39, 41, 42
WARWICK FARM RACES 39
EPSOM RACES 39
BUSINESS, ROBBERY .. .. .. ..42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 45
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 48
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP .. .. ..50
“Merry Christmas!” •• •• 47, 51, 52
TWO COMPLETE SHORT STORIES—
“SALVAGE,” by W. Graeme-Holder .. 55, 57
“THE CURSE OF TRUE LOVE”—
By Harold Mercer . . .. • • 57, 58
VERSE. —-By Kathleen Dalziel, Roderic Quinn,
Furnley Maurice*Myra Morris.. 25, 52, 55, 58
Next Week.
“UNTOLD TALES OF BULLY HAYES.” In this
long complete story Albert Dorrington records another
of the surprising adventures of “the last of the
buccaneers.”
In addition our Special Commissioner will con-
tribute another article on the state of Germany as
he finds it and the Growth of Prussian Influence.
The Great “Christmas Bulletin,”
Saturday, December 7.
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1929.
SAME OLD THEODORE!
The Budget which Treasurer Theodore
placed unexpectedly before the House of
Representatives on Thursday night, to re-
place the one supplied by his predeces-
sor Page, wasn’t an illuminating document.
He said in explanation that time was short;
but time didn’t require to be long when
nothing was done except to increase the
income-tax and add on a few new duties.
Theodore accused Page of having neglected
to provide for £807,340 of inevitable, or
allegedly inevitable, expenditure. But
£105,000 of this was the cost of the election,
which naturally wasn’t foreseen, and as
Theodore has failed to provide for a double
dissolution and another election about next.
March he is in no position to throw bricks
and bottles. Leaving out the election item,
Theodore accused his forerunner of failure
to provide for £702,340. But he really did
provide to a great extent with his tax on
Yankee picture shows. This, however, was
ruled out at the election on the ground
that it was a sin to penalise the U.S. amuse-
ment capitalist, and having achieved office
through creating this hole, Theodore doesn’t
add to his reputation by complaining that
the hole is there.
The Treasurer says that the deficit at
June, 1929, was £4,987,718, and that Page
thought he saw his way to pay off
£1,200,000 of this. Theodore doesn’t think
he sees his way to pay off anything, and
he considers it a matter of doubt whether
anybody will see his way in the near
future, or whether the shortage will ulti-
mately wander in to the public debt. This
doesn’t add to his reputation either.
The cash-box being in a depleted state,
the familiar bill to authorise the very fami-
liar loan or loans abroad is promised; and
meanwhile Theodore, just like Page, is dis-
counting £5,000,000 worth of short-dated
promissory notes in London to keep the
ship afloat till the .proper loan turns up.
But the discounting of promissory notes
which fall due in a year or less means that
the real big permanent loan will be wanted
dreadfully soon, and is to a great extent
expended in advance. Should it linger on
the way there are always possibilities in
“taking a wider control of the gold re-
serves”—in the Commonwealth Bank and
in joint-stock banks as well. These would
last a while, but not much of a while. After-
wards—but Theodore never has been con-
cerned about afterwards. At the worst he
can move on as he moved on from Queens-
land and leave afterwards still behind him.
The entire financial problem, including
the unemployed problem, arises from con-
ditions which began under Hughes, con-
tinued under .Bruce-Page, and promise to
remain under Scullidore. Exports on the
whole period from 1920 till now have ceased
to pay in full for imports, and have ceased
to pay anything at all towards interest on
overseas debts. The huge liability not pro-
vided for out of the products of our own
labor must be met out of new foreign loans,
or Australia must reform and do a lot
more work, or Australia must burst. The
definite way to reform is a lavish com-
pulsory reduction of imports. But Theo-
dore bases his calculations, after the usual
fashion, on extracting a lot of paper
customs revenue out of lots of imports
which have to be paid for in real money.
His few tariff improvements aim at getting
a little more paper customs revenue out
of the heap of imports than might other-
wise be obtainable. In this respect he may
say he is no worse than his predecessors;
but he clambered into office on the promise
to be so much better that the difference
would stagger humanity.
WHAT’S BEST FOR VICTORIA?
Victorian State elections have become con-
fused affairs. For the one to be held on
Saturday five so-called parties are in the
field,* yet there are only 45 Seats to be
filled, 20 members having been returned
unopposed. The Nationalists are in office,
but they had only 20 seats in the last Par-
liament, and will be astonished if they gain
half a dozen. They are, however, willing
to share the plums with the Country party,
which holds 10 seats, more or less securely,
and expects to win two or three more.
Labor is the strongest party, but it has
never had an Assembly majority of its
own, and is unlikely to get one this time.
It bases its hopes of regaining the Trea-
sury benches on the success of two Liberals
and three or four Country Progressives,
whom it is supporting against Nationalists
or Country-party men, as the case may
be. It borrowed these tactics from the"
Scullidores, but is departing from them in
Mildura, where it is trying to unseat All-
nutt, a Country Progressive. Last year
the Country Progs, helped to turn a Labor
Government out. The Liberals, for their
part, supported the Country Prog, motion
which compelled the Nationalist Ministry to
go to the country. So these two groups
are untrustworthy allies, and they are too
puny to govern alone.
It is not exactly a situation which pro-
mises strong and stable government. Yet
Victoria never needed strong and stable
government more. It is better off than
sister-States which have gone in with
greater abandon for trying to make every-
body happy by Act of Parliament, but it
is faring badly all the same. Its public
debt has soared from 66 millions to 160
millions in 15 years, and a great part of
the money has been ill-spent. A Judge
with many years of Land Court experience
reports that the State has lost £7,721,000
on soldier-settlement, and must be pre-
pared to lose a lot more in expanding
skimpy farms to decent home-maintenance
areas; and that only takes the dismal story
to June 30, 1927. Price-slumps and bad
seasons have hit the land industries gen-
erally; many of the Mallee farmers will get
little or no wheat for the third successive
year. The once-profitable railways have
become chronic consumers of tax-revenue,
and other fruits of “a vigorous public-
works policy” return only a fraction of
the interest. Yet a never-ceasing cry goes
up for more railways and “works,” though
loan money is now so scarce that
the Commonwealth is offering £5 14s. 4d.
p.c.,'free of State income-tax, for the use
of a mere 10 millions. Scores of unemployed
from the country have taken shelter in
the already over-populated metropolis in
order to be near the loan-mongering poli-
ticians. And the leading Vic. manufac-
turer of agricultural machinery has
announced that machines made under Aus-
tralian conditions are too dear to be sold
in the world’s markets, so he is opening
a factory in Canada.
The position is serious, but by no means
hopeless. The remedy is to be found, not
in redistribution of seats, the Age’s cure-all,
but in plain living and sound thinking—
strict economy on the part of the Govern-
ment, combined with help that will tide
the victims of drought and soldier-settle-
ment muddling over their worst difficul-
ties, and the co-operation of all sections in
bringing about conditions in which there
will be ample work for willing men and
women without the manufacture of ruinous
loan jobs. Patriotic buying of Victorian-
and Australian-made goods would make
work for thousands, and relieve the finan-
cial situation immensely. The politicians
could set an excellent example to the
people by suspending their petty party
strife and electing a Ministry, the best
available. Failing an elective Ministry,
a Nationalist-Cocky Government, with
Menzies in it, seems .the least undesirable
alternative. It wouldn’t be so likely to
tax oppressively and spend lavishly as a
Labor Government led by Hogan and with
Theodore as its model.
STITCHING SHIRTS IN SUVA.
The proper hour to arrive at Suva, the
capital of Fiji, is in the early morning, when
you jump from your berth and discover
Paradise. If you are greeted by a rainbow
over the calm azure of the enormous bay,
you have a memory that you will never
lose. The ranges beyond leap at you
with a message that you are in a world
cut out by a jig-saw. Verdure drapes the
lower slopes, purple and blue and indigo.
The aspect is of a vast backcloth of a
scene specially staged for yoiijr arrival.
Further out is the eternal boohiing of the
reef, with the surf flashing a vivid white.
The town is strewn along the foreshore,
with houses perched on the hills. From
the steamer everything seems newly
painted; but once disembarked and ashore,
disillusionment slaps you. Suva is indeed a
dingy little place, with two streets that
unite to lead the visitor to the bund—
though it is not so called. On the other side
of what was meant to be a lordly boulevard
there is a huddle of native houses, squalid
and tumble-down, with black and brown
babies rolling on the verandahs and half-
clad families in the dusk behind. Under
the shade of the trees on the water-front
variegated children play hopscotch, chat-
tering the while in perfect English.
If by chance you saunter along the road
when the tide is up, you glimpse Paradise
again; but if the tide is out there is no-
thing but a muddy stretch of grey desola-
tion, with native children messing about
in the muck. The paradise of Suva is
built of mud, with mangroves where there
should be gracious sand. Of all the horrible
things in the world the most horrible is a
mangrove swamp. It ia alive with a kind
of beastly fecundation.
Usually you arrive in the rain. The rainy
season knocks off on the first day of Janu-
ary and starts again on the second. Yet
during the wettest season the other side
of the main island may be drought-smitten.
The correct attire at any time is an um-
brella worn with a white suit. There is a
specially glutinous black mud that ruins
your trousers in ten minutes, and beneath
that there is a slippery rock to finish the
job. The inhabitants exist largely by the
grace of the laundering business.
To keep Fiji going requires no more
than 4000 Europeans, of whom 400 are em-
ployed by Government. Besides these there
are 85,000 Fijians who got there first;
60,000 Indians, originally indentured to
work for the whites; over a thousand Poly-
nesians; the industrious Chinese; half-
castes; sundries. It is almost impossible
to know the ancestry of the cross-breds.
But everyone in Fiji is “ranked”; every
individual knows exactly his position.
There is a Governor and an Executive
Council; but happier than these, happiest
in all the colony, is the murderer. And. he
has the most distinctive uniform. Every
day you can see him and his congenial
fellows marching under escort on his way to
tend the Governor’s gardens, or returning
to his barracks. The convicts wear bright
striped jerseys, of which they are very
proud. Their grin is the most certain thing
in Suva. By comparison the police are
merely smart, with their fuzzy, frizzled
heads dyed by henna, their bare enormous
feet generously splayed.
The Fijians are the original children of
Paradise. They begin as adorable chubby
cherubs, needing no further adornment.
Then, unhappily, they grow up. Just as
they are merging into early manhood their
minds stop. Why should they worry them-
selves about their minds? They are satis-
fied with happiness, and so little is required
for existence. The white man goes strug-
gling and fuming to a fuller mental stature,
but the Fijian knows better.
And there is every tinge and tint. A
white Fiji has gone so far in miscegenation
that nobody cares. You notice the smart
little schoolgirls on their way to school-
excellent schools—per foot or by bicycle,
and you notice that there is no drawing of
the color line. To add to the difficulty
there are all sorts of half-castes, mixtures
of Fijian and Chinese and other strange
blends, though, curiously, I have not noted
any mixture between the Indian and the
Fijian. The Indians are to be seen in
almost every second shop in the town,
whole families of them, busy at all hours
of the day and the night, and one at least
in every family at work with a sewing-
machine. At first I thought it was the
booming of the .rollers on the reef that
murmured in my ears day and night. It
was the whir of the industrious Indian at
the treadle. The real romance of the
tropics is tangled in the spinning-wheel of a
sewing-machine—the machine that here mur-
murs endlessly, stitching shirts for sharp-
shanked Indians. Few trousers are worn
by the natives. The loincloth suffices. A
frequent sight is of a native in shirt and
immaculate collar and tie—finishing with a
loincloth! The streets are narrow, but
sufficient for his enormous feet. There is
a great demand for out-sized golf boots.
The lady of fashion among the Fijians
has been hardly dealt with by the mission-
aries. Owing to their interference she has
to don a nightshirt. Her original skirt was
the sulu, which fell to her feet. What the
Indian lady wears doesn’t matter as long
as she has her jewellery on. She wears all
of it always, especially on her nose.
There are, however, smart and attractive
flappers in Suva. Wearing skirts and silk
stockings and smart shoes they move
along with just the right fashion-touch.
It comes as a surprise to see a perfect
ensemble dallying in converse with a Fijian
buck, and strangers stop to dwell on her
beauty. The complexion is in some cases
entrancing. Once I saw an amazing Fijian
flapper that had an old-gold complexion,
like dull bronze, as if dusted with sun-
light. She would win any beauty quest in
the world so long as the judges had no eyes
for feet.
Arthur H. ADAMS.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Scullin Flabinet.
So far as it is possible to judge by its doings
before Parliament met, and by its opening
performance in Parliament, the new Federal
Ministry is the most boneless the Com-
monwealth has ever had. It may improve
later on, or it may grow worse. The pos-
session of a large majority doesn’t make a
Government efficient; it may be less and
may do less than one which has a habit
of being saved by the Speaker’s casting
vote.
The Scullidores gained their success
largely by a thunderous assurance that
they would end the disastrous coal stop-
page, and get the pits working inside a
fortnight from their accession to office, do-
ing it all, of course, without any reduction
of wages. A few electors pointed out that
the proceeding was legally impossible, but
many held that a man with a voice like that
could do anything, and the promise unques-
tionably counted for thousands of votes.
Those votes, it is now manifest, were got
by false pretences of the most brazen
character. The fortnight passed, a month
passed, and the Ministry did nothing
save hold conferences with the parties to
the dispute, and ask for suggestions; it
produced not a single idea of its own to
justify its Strong Main pose. Not even the
shadow of a plan emerged until a day or
two ago, when the remarkable statement
was made, on remarkably good authority,
that the Government is urging on a general
strike, because if the trouble is made
Federal the Federal Government will have
more power to do something, even if it
doesn’t know what the something is. The
idea suggests horrible lack of resource, and
a gruesome opinion as to a fitting Christmas
present for the nation.
Another reason why the Bruce-Page
went down and the Scullidore went up was
the proposal of the former to levy a tax
which would fall mostly on Yankee picture-
show magnates. A furious opposition,
largely financed by Yankee picture-show
money, was raised, and a credulous nation
was beguiled, largely by Yankee picture-
show propaganda, into the conviction that
any profanation of the sacred Ark of
Yankee profits would lead to hunger, rags,
crime and an unprecedented crop of blow-
flies. Having thus thrown a pile of income
overboard the Scullidores are naturally
tearful over the difficulty of squaring the
finances, and admire themselves, for their
courage in tackling the problem at all. An
absolutely ferocious increase of the income-
tax is announced, it being better in the
Scullidore philosophy to burden our own
people and let the U.S. capitalist escape.
A quenchless desire to cripple the man who
employs Australian workmen at Australian
white men’s wages is characteristic of the
class of politician wffio waves a red flag and
takes his orders from Moscow.
♦
The Queensland Railway Tragedy.
Dear Bulletin, —A recent Bulletin refers
to efforts being made by the Queensland
Government to amend matters on the rail-
ways. It is proposed “to restore to the Com-
missioner the power to sack men guilty of
serious offences, and to make appointments
and promotions on merit.” Also attempt?
are being made to drive back heavy motor
traffic to the railways by penalising these
mechanical giants in case they are not acting
as railway feeders.
When things are fundamentally unsound,
half-measures are almost as bad as none at
all. Queensland, which is faced with an
annual railway deficit of over H million, is
fighting this financial ogre by doing things
which, although possibly good in themselves,
are utterly unequal to the real task before
any Queensland Administration, viz., get-
ting rid of that deficit and then reducing
taxation. The things proposed by the Moore
Government may possibly improve matters
by a few thousands per annum, but they


POOR, SILLY PUP!
"Japan has a peaee establishment of 214,340 office and men; Soviet Russia had 800,000 men under Main last year; Chian has over 3,000,000 men under arms."
"The Commonwealth Government has every confidence that the movement for world peace makes the past expenditure on the military defence of Aurtralia
unnecessary in the POOR, SILLY PUP: “Oh, Pussy, you mustn’t use your claws! You know I trusted you and had all my teeth drawn!"
will certainly leave this enormous loss,
which is the root of Bananaland’s fearful
taxation and industrial depression, just
where it was.
Every thinking man in the northern
State knows what is wrong. The railways,
owing to some 15 years of maladministra-
tions, are shockingly overmanned, and the
Government is apparently attempting to put
this right by sprinkling the Devil with eau-
de-Cologne. Tax motor-lorries; give the
Commissioner a little more power, but not
too much; exhort the public to patronise
the railways, but leave the two or three
thousand superfluous employees undisturbed
and let Providence take charge of the rest
of the show!
If Queenslanders (and Australians) are
not prepared to sell their railways, there is
only one way out of this tangle. A Govern-
ment dependent on the popular vote cannot
stand up to a really efficient policy of rail-
way economy and reform. But Canada,
which had a similar difficulty, solved it by
appointing a Commissioner practically inde-
pendent of political control, giving him a
handsome salary and telling him to go
ahead and make the railways pay. Last
year Sir William Thornton presented the
Government with the very handsome sur-
plus of 10,000,000 dollars, and Canada has
the same motor-lorry competition to con-
tend with (to say nothing of other hostile
agencies) that Australia has. Why cannot
one Australian State follow this brilliant
example?—Yours etc., P. Airey.
O
Cobden’s Ghost in Maorilancl.
The idea that Maoriland, which, after all,
is a very small country, can have any des-
tiny other than that of growing things to
feed and clothe the Old World, hasn’t notice-
ably intruded upon the minds of the more
influential islanders for quite a long while.
George Grey dreamed a dream about a
“Britain of the South,” but with him the
vision seems to have perished. Hence it
comes about that in the Year of Our Lord
1929 we find the president of the Dominion’s
Employers’ Federation, T. S. Weston,
viewing the future with deep gloom because
the price of wool is down, and seems likely
to stay down. Mr. Weston is haunted by
a spectre of unemployment. There are
now. he says, 17.000 men engaged on public
works. The present programme will be
finished in four years, and then these men
will be thrown on the labor market. Either
that, or there must be more borrowing at
high rates of interest to finance unproduc-
tive public works, which Mr. Weston very
rightly condemns.
Maoriland, he fears, will follow in the
footsteps of Australia, whose misdeeds he
catalogues. Among the misdeeds he gives
a front seat to a policy of protection of
manufactures. To avoid being driven to
such dreadful shifts Maoriland is counselled
to make a strenuous effort to “reduce
prices.” Mr. Weston, though he doesn’t
say so in so many words, makes. it clear
that he has a reduction of wages in mind,
and he gilds the pill with the promise that
the purchasing power of wages won’t be
reduced if the nominal rate is lowered.
That may be true enough, and if Maonland
manufacturers had exhausted the possibili-
ties of the home market and were seeking
export outlets, there might be something
in it. But that isn’t the case.
The Dominion’s tariff has always been
regarded, politically, as a revenue-producing
machine, and in that capacity it is a wonder.'
In 1927 Maorilanders paid £5 14s. a head
in customs duties (per capita they are the
world’s biggest importers), beating the Aus-
tralian average by 12s. 4d., the Canadian
by 465. Bd. and that of the U.S. citizen by
£4 14s. As a foster-mother of industries,
infant or adult, the tariff isn’t a shining
success. Three of the oldest-established
manufacturing industries —woollens, foot-
wear and tanning—employ fewer hands now
than they did five years ago, and show a
marked falling off in the value of their
produce. More lately-established indus-
tries have made very slow headway, despite
the fact that the Dominion is blessed with
an abundance of cheap hydro-electric power,
and the workers, as Mr. Weston testifies,
are not bitten by the strike-bug very often.
Maoriland has a population not very
much larger than that of Sydney, natural
resources that rival those of any Austra-,
lian State, and a rainfall that is the envy
of her less fortunate big sister across the
Tasman. In such circumstances it oughtn’t
to be necessary to advocate reduced wages
as an antidote to unemployment, and it
wouldn’t be necessary to talk about unem-
ployment at all if the islanders could curb
their mania for importation and adjust
their tariff so as to give their own manu-
facturing industries a fighting chance.
Elective Ministries.
Dear Bulletin, —In the issue of 13/11/’29
Mr. J. M. Fowler states his case on the
above question “categorically and finally,”
so I do the same.
Suppose we had the Swiss system here.
Last month Labor gained a majority in the
House of Reps., and it might do the same,
with luck; at a joint sitting. The old
Ministry would consist mostly of men
appointed during Labor’s 12- years’ eclipse,
for even the Swiss system doesn’t make
Ministers immortal. Parliament, or the
Parliamentary majority party if it likes to
wolf all the authority going, has a right
to eject the Ministry bodily at the end of
each three years. It isn’t Swiss etiquette to
throw out any Minister because he doesn’t
belong to the predominant crowd in Par-
liament, but the Langs and Theodores
might not worry about that. A crisis and a
dissolution of the Lower House are quite
allowable in Switzerland, though not much
practised. Still they might be practised
here. Then the Ministry goes out. If the
Scullins couldn’t get a majority at a joint
sitting now and use it to gain complete
possession of the portfolios, they might
possess the requisite majority after next
Senate election. Then if a Lower House
dissolution was engineered the Cabinet
would go without further delay.
The Swiss Ministry has no vote in either
House, but it has to appear and speak in
both on matters of policy. In Switzerland
even its bitterest opponents don’t receive
it with catcalls, but they might do so in
some other place.
If the Labor majority in the House of
Reps, couldn’t sweep out the Cabinet
immediately for lack of a both-HouSe
’majority, it might, among other disagree-
ables, have to put up with the old Minister
of Finance, and if he happened to be a
Bavin or Stevens it might feel wild,
Beasley especially. But having a majority
in the House which controls the finances
it could tear the Budget to pieces, and make
a completely fresh one, and tell the man of
Finance all the impolite thoughts it had
about him. It might even worry him out
of office, though perhaps they wouldn’t do
such a thing in Switzerland.
Mr. Fowler says that when “all this has
been achieved in Switzerland he sees no
reason why as good results should not follow
the adoption of Elective Ministries in Aus-
tralia.” Still the British Parliamentary sys-
tem works remarkably well in England
despite all criticism, and people asked why
a close copy of it shouldn’t work as well in
Egypt. So the new Constitution began in
April, 1923, and was suspended in June,
1928, as unsuited to its surroundings.
I would really like to see the Swiss sys-
tem tried here, but more as a matter of
interest than as a cure-all. It is possible
that if Scullin and Theodore couldn’t get
the Swiss-imitation Cabinet they wanted
outside Parliament, through having a
majority in one House only, they might
form their own Shadow Cabinet inside the
Representatives, where they prevail, and
run things that way. Any Swiss Federal
member may introduce a bill just as is the
case here, and so can any Minister, but
members have votes with which to back up
their bills, and Ministers have none. The
people can’t introduce a bill, for the
initiative only applies in State affairs
except when it is proposed to alter the
Constitution. Whether a Shadow Cabinet
inside Parliament, as distinguished from the
orthodox one outside, could raise its salaries
to the Ministerial grade I don’t know. The
Swiss method works admirably where it is,
as has been said times out of number, but
it might become a disorderly scramble if
Theodore and his party were shifted to the
Nationalrat. —Yours, etc., Sol M.
♦
Should the Doctor Ever Kill?
“Med”: In “Euthanasia” (B. 6/11/’29)
James Edmond expresses clearly and tem-
perately the sentiments with which thou-
sands have turned away from the bedside
of loved ones. But dare we?
The present-day philosophy of medicine
does not recognise totally incurable diseases.
Disorder after disorder formerly called in-
curable has been overcome, banished or
circumvented, till the worst that is admitted
of any disease is that no remedy has been
found as yet. The incurable have been
cured, the impossible has been done—by
repeated attempts to do the impossible.
Medicine (miscalled a science) advances
still by trial and error, the errors count-
lessly outnumbering the successes.
So long as the sufferer exists it is almost
impossible to avoid “doing something
something which by one chance in a myriad
may be a benefit to mankind as long as
our civilisation lasts. Death, from any
cause, ends both need and possibility for
action.
With Euthanasia established as the
approved and correct course, public opinion
would soon be denouncing as inhuman
cruelty all attempts to cure such patients.
And since experimenters do not chance on
cures already tested and refined, with their
dangers indicated on them, but must seek
through barren theories till they strike an
almost imperceptible indication of better
things, and follow that and lose it or find
at the end a cure which must be altered
for general use—since all this, it is likely
that, public opinion would have its way.
This is the basis of a great objection
to Euthanasia.
■ $
The Rising Tide of Color.
“Si Anu”: To the Singapore Naval Base
five years ago a motley crowd of Asiatic
coolies and their families were transported
from their filthy towns and villages, and
since then have been maintained under the
best sanitary conditions. Malaria, hook-
worm and other tropical diseases were
rigorously excluded. The response of the
coolie was almost instantaneous. A recent
report of the surgeon-commander states
that the health of women and children also
is astounding.
On the other hand, the men of the Navy,
on whom an equal care is lavished, have
failed to respond. For diseases of the
digestive system the case rate amongst the
coolies was only 27, whereas it was 81
amongst the matlows; and the differences
are the same right through the catalogue.
The figures are not comforting to those
of us who view the “rising tide of color”
with apprehension.
Neighbors Can Quarrel Too.
A Zeppelin has flown round the world,
and the event has been hailed as another
great step towards world-wide fellowship and
understanding. It is good to hope for; but
it w r ould be madness to rely much upon it.
Twenty-five years ago it took five weeks
to travel from Melbourne to Singapore.
To-day it is possible to do the journey in
24 hours. Are the Malays more brothers
to us now than they were when the old
Airlie was the. chief link between us and
them ?
The French and the English are within
40 minutes of one another; and the average
Englishman is as incapable of understanding
the average Frenchman as he is the Malay.
In fact, less so. Official Englishmen in
Malaya do frequently get to a very close
understanding and sympathy with Amit.
But, then, Amit is not feverishly building
submarines and aeroplanes with the obvious
intention of some day challenging the
superiority of the Englishman’s submarines
and aeroplanes.


V-
O
J,
FOR MODERN MOTORS
Thick, treacly, oils were good enough
for engines of 20 years ago, but the
fast “ revving,” high compression motors
of to-day are more exacting in their
lubrication demands.
Shell Oils are up-to-date. They give com-
plete satisfaction and perfect lubrication
under the most strenuous conditions of
modern motoring.
Be Up-to-date—Shellubricate.
Use Shell Motor Spirit, too.
*•§?
b
■SBM
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Scullidores have shoved up the import
duties on iron and steel, woollen and cotton
yarns and piece goods, felt hats, socks and
stockings, varnishes, fancy goods, wireless
parts, matches, rice, prunes and raisins, among
other articles. It would be a creditable per-
formance if it stood alone, but it is accom-
panied by a reduction in the excise on beer
and a thumping income-tax increase.
There is already a super-tax of 8 p.c., while
the ordinary Bruce-Page rate reached ss. in
the £ on property income exceeding £6500
and personal earnings exceeding £7500; now
there is to be another super-tax—lo p.c. on
£451 to £l5OO, 15 p.c. on £l5Ol to £3OOO.
and 20 p.c. on everything above £3OOO and
company incomes. So the Government makes
it purely a “class” matter; as far as any
but its own people are concerned, when it
gives with one hand it promptly takes with
the other.
The Theodore super-tax will cost the
Hogans heaps of middle-class votes in Vic-
toria on Saturday. “Why didn’t he leave
it till next week?” groaned a State Labor
leader in his agony.
If the Nats, and Cockies return from the
Vic. Assembly election with a joint majority
it is almost certain that there will be an-
other composite Cabinet. McPherson, whose
chief care is finance, might, if unity would
thereby be promoted, be ready to serve under
Argyle, just as Jack Murray stood aside for
Watt in 1012. Allan would be happy enough
at Lands, Agriculture or Water Supply.
The difficulty would be to find room for
the impatient young bloods.
If Hollywood is ever short of characters
with impenetrable, hides it ought to send for
Wally Marks, M.H.R., and Senator Duncan.
Although these two did their darnedest
to dish Bruce, they attended the Nationalist
party meeting uninvited. They were in-
formed, by resolution, that their room would
in future be preferable to their company,
and that the same applied to Hughes and
Maxwell. Next day Senator Massy Greene,
in an emotional letter to the new leader,
Latham, said he would sink or swim with
the cast-out four. In his case a lifeline may
be flung out before it is too late.
There was another coal conference at Can-
berra on Saturday, and the miners had high
hopes that work world be resumed under
the old conditions, according to Theodore’s
solemn election promise to get everything
going satisfactorily in 14 days. But ScuUin
explained how little power the Federal Gov-
ernment really possesses, or, in other words,
he explained that the miners had been sold
a pup. The conference decided to meet again
shortly. Meanwhile the coal commission
looks as if it is going on for ever.
There is talk of a Federal offer of a bonus
of Is. per ton (the shilling involved in the
wage question) on the first two million tons
extracted from the N.S.W. northern coal-
mines after a start is made. But two mil-
lion tons is a very few months’ work, and
there is need to reduce the selling price by
more than that, and to do it permanently.
Also, it remains to be seen how the Federal
Government can give a bonus in one State,
or part of one State, without giving it all
round, the Constitution saying distinctly
that “bounties shall be uniform throughout
the Commonwealth.” A State may pay
bounties on production or export, first get-
ting Federal authority, but the money pro-
blem is in the way. If N.S.W. secured
permission to pay a coal bounty, and it then
received a Federal grant as a distressed
State, that might possibly be a successful
evasion.
“We will open the Rothbury mine if the
heavens fall,” said N.S.W. Minister Weaver.
The trouble is that if the heavens fall it will
probably raise hell.
An imported union secretary recommends
the Federal Labor Government to “use the
military to prevent Mr. Bavin working the
Rothbury mine under police protection.” One
difficulty would be to find the military now
that the Government has practically dis-
persed the citizen soldiers. There are only
174 S men on the permanent staff, and they
are distributed over six States and two
Federal Territories. In spite of their alleged
reverence for A.I.F. tradition, the Sculli-
dores are trying to enrol so-called “national”
regiments of volunteers —an English regi-
ment, a Scots regiment and an Irish regi-
ment. But if they had a Chinese regiment,
as the Bolshevists had, they couldn’t send
it to Rothbury without violating the Con-
stitution.
McPherson had
a bill before the
Vic. Parliament to
break up the U.S.
monopoly of boot-
m a n u f a cturing
machinery. Trans-
pacific financial in-
terests are against
him, just as they
were against Bruce
when he fell foul
of the picture-
show millionaires,
but they are not
likely to be so
triumphant this
time. The Yankee
monopoly won’t
sell its machines,
but it rents them
out at a rate whifch
would make a slum
landlord rejoice,
Victoria turns out
nearly two-thirds
of the boot pro-
ducts of the Com-
monwealth, so
McPherson’s pro-
posal to make the
“tied-house” clause
illegal is cause for
anger.
The Scullidores
would like to get
rid of the Develop-
ment and Migra-
tion Commission,
but they can’t
without paying
heavy compensa-
tion. So “its func-
tions are to be co-
ordinated with
those of the Council
of Scientific and
Industrial Re-
search.” Which
means that H. W.
Gepp and John
Gunn will have
little to do and lots
of time to do it in.
Westralian Labor
would prefer Scul-
lin to keep his hands off the migration busi-
ness. It fears the effect on its 3000-farms
scheme, to which it converted Gunn.
Yates, has been chided by news-
papers for making “the astonishing sugges-
tion” that the Speaker ought to be a per-
manent Parliamentary official, free from
party ties. But there is precedent for such a
course, apart from that furnished by the
House of Lords. When the Transvaal re-
ceived its new Constitution after the Boer
War, it was stipulated that the Speaker
should not be a member of the House. There
was a notion that the two parties would be
almost numerically equal, and that the
Government might lose its majority by
appointing one of its own side to the Chair.
Increased parcels post and telephone
charges are the first-fruits of P.M.G. Lyons’s
determination to make his department pay
its way. Australia can’t go on losing heavily
on undertakings which ought to be self-
supporting: still. Lyons ought to get in
touch with Maoriland to see how they man-
age there. The Maorilanders have penny-
postage and lower telegraph charges than
rule in Australia. Telephone revenue, which
is on a rental basis only, with no charge
for calls, averaged last year £7 11s. per
’phone—and that includes penny-in-the-slots
that earn anything up to £2OO a year. The
capital cost of the whole outfit was a shade
under £12,000,000, and the margin of receipts
over working expenses in 1928-29 was
£1,057,000 —a bit better than 8 per cent.
President Hoover, in defining his sea
position, says in effect that the most reduced
navy will do him provided all naval States
reduce alike. So it should. Suppose 10
naval Powers with five ships each. If three
attacked Britain and the rest stayed neutral,
Bull might be crushed by 15 to 5, and depend-
ing on the sea for his daily crust he might
be starved at short notice and compelled to
surrender. But eight of the Powers (odds
of 40 ships to 5) might blockade Uncle Sam
for 40 years without depriving him of a
single necessary of life.
The Queensland Govei-nment cattle stations
are gradually being taken off the taxpayei's’
hands —at a price. Maitland Downs and
Brooklyn have been sold for £lB,OOO the
brace. With four others they were bought
by the Labor Government in which Theo-
dore was Treasurer for £228,000, and the
losses were so magnificent as to suggest
that every Government bullock had a Labor-
unionist to valet him.
The abolition of capital punishment is
likely to be an issue at the S. Aus. State
election. In U.S.A, only 2 p.c. of mui'ders
HAVING ANOTHER TRY.
“Queensland is going to once more try a Conciliation Board in an
attempt to obtain Industrial Peace.”
are followed by executions, and the average
time between the murder and the execution
is two years, so if there is anything in the
theory of the people who are against capital
punishment the position there should be
nearly ideal. In 1928, however, Detroit had
228 murders, Chicago 498 and New York
401. During the same period there were
only 27 murders in London, and 10 of the
murderers were executed, 10 committed sui-
cide, four were certified insane, one was
reprieved and two were not caught. The
average time between the murder and the
violent removal of the murderer was 91
days. This is one of the things they order
better in Britain.
In Victoria there are 19,000 children
under the care of the State., Those who are
mentally deficient are crowded together in
an institution at Royal Park; the rest are
scattered about amongst 2816 foster homes.
The majority of these are reported to be
good, but in others the children are regarded
as either a source of revenue or little drudges.
In the case of the mite who died m cir-
cumstances so harrowing that the foster-
mother was convicted of manslaughter, neither
the department nor the visiting committee
inspected the apology for a home. At its
best the system is only tolerable; at its worst
it looks like a casual revival of chattel
slavery.
Argyle has been asked by the Vic. Cabinet
to submit a scheme for the reorganisation
of the Children’s Welfare Department, and
to draft a bill for next session. A confer-
ence of religious bodies that deal with infant
welfare will be invited to furnish ideas.
Scullin, holding his first portfolio, and
about to put his first policy before Parlia-
ment, declared that the very . front idea
in his programme is unification and the con-
centration of all authority at Canberra.
Before the election the front idea was a
unified Australian railway gauge. Most
politicians have chattered about that, but
when one put it definitely in front, for imme-
diate consumption, it was hoped that a
definite scheme was ready. The Bulletin
suggested that the only device which comes
within a few dozen million pounds of possi-
bility is to adopt the handiest and most pre-
valent gauge (3ft. 6in.), and so start with
the work half done, so to speak. It has
waited to hear if Scullin likes the idea or if
he has a better one of his own, but so far
he doesn’t even say what his pet gauge is.
Now he is apparently off on a new track, and
a very long one.
There is more than meets the eye in the
Rammac Government’s offer to Smuts of the
Governor-Generalship of the East African
colonies. Smuts is a lion in the somewhat
nubbly path of the Dutch-Labor combine, and
Hbrtzog and Creswell would give a lot to
see him caged. They probably inspired the
proposal, which their antagonist politely
declined. He did not acquire his Boer nick-
name of “Slim Janie” for nothing.
F. T. Sung, Consul-General for the Celes-
tial Republic, is given to making what are
described as “important statements.” The
burden of a song Sung sang in Westralia
was that a committee had been formed by
the Nanking Government to inquire into
the treatment of Chinese citizens in foreign
countries, especially Australia. It is perhaps
suggested that the local Celestial suffers dis-
abilities which he doesn’t groan under in
his own country. Certainly his taxes don’t
take the form of arbitrary requisitions by
military commanders, nor is he liable to
imprisonment for years without a charge
being brought against him.
The Aus. Council of Trades Unions has
called on the Seullidore Government to intro-
duce immediately a scheme by which every
unemployed person will get an allowance
equal at least to the basic wage. Yates,
M.H.R., has already almost thrown off his
allegiance because the Budget doesn’t pro-
vide for the unemployed except by tariff in-
creases intended to furnish some sordid work.
In Britain 50 Labor members threaten to
abandon Ram Mac unless he fixes up an
improved dole (20s. per week for each work-
less father, 10s. for his wife and ss. for
each child) and does it by Christmas. When
a Ministry has attained office by promising
the earth the wise course is to immediately
fill the electoral roll with spooks and goblins
and make itself practically independent of
the electors.
It will be a national calamity if the Scul-
lin Government abolishes Duntroon. Diggers
grounded at the Australian St. Cyr proved
the very cream of the A.I.F. officers below
batoned rank; there are glowing tributes
to them in Bean’s book. It was intended
that these men should furnish the nucleus
of the C.M.F. general staff. With an' ill-
trained volunteer horde a general or any
other sort of staff would be a superfluity, so
it is quite likely Duntroon will go.
It was in December, 1928, that Joseph
Ward recaptured the Maoriland Prime Min-
istership with his £80,000,000-or-thereabouts
loan policy; and the archipelago is waking
up. A big instalment of the loan was floated
last January, and a big deficit (£577,000)
turned up at the end of the financial year in
March. A bill has been introduced for the
borrowing of a further £7,000,000, and heavy
new taxation was announced some time ago.
But this is merely the inevitable. There
never was a borrowing boom in Australasia
that wasn’t followed by a boom in taxation.
The Christmas Bulletin is a striking
example of what mass production can do.
Apart from the 50 black and white drawings,
the handsome colored reproduction of one of
Minus’s abos., and contributions by 30 of Aus-
tralia’s best-known verse-writers, there are
24 complete short stories, sufficient in them-
selves to make a volume of the size usually
sold for 6s. or 7s. Yet because of the great
popularity of the Christmas Bulletin,
which goes all over the English-speaking
world, it is possible to put it into readers’
hands for sixpence. The remarkable produc-
tion will be available at all news-agents and
bookstalls throughout Australia and Maori-
land on Saturday, December 7.
MACELESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Makin, on being appointed Speaker of the
House of Reps., discarded the wig and gown and
ordered the Maoe to be removed, subsequently
stigmatising it ‘a relic of barbarism.’ ”
He flung the horsehair from him with
emphatic
Distaste, and eyed the wig with cold dis-
dain.
“Stow them away in cellar or in attic,
They won’t be wanted while we tribunes
reign,”
He ordered. “Gauds so anti-democratic
Give ev’ry honest Laborite a pain.”
Next at his nod they hustled from its place,
As ’twere some evil-smelling thing, the Mace.
Old Cromwell’s self was hardly more out-
spoken
Or damned the symbol with a sourer
phrase.
Had they demurred he might have seized the
token
That Parliament’s authority conveys
And hurled it through the window, bent and
broken,
As stupid swank in these enlightened days.
Scornful of frill, he deemed it a disgrace
To sit behind the venerable Mace.
He might have indicated his intention
The simple life to lead, however high
The latest pedestal of his ascension,
By tearing off his collar and his tie
As fatuous concessions to convention.
He didn’t—though I cannot tell you why.
But half a minute served him to efface
That mediaeval property, the Mace.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


THE TRICK.
“There is increasing discontent among N.S.W. Nationalists at the surrender of principles by the Bavin Government.”
THE NATIONALIST EMPLOYER: “Yes, but you’ve taken my purse to give to him.”
THE MAGICIAN: “Sh-sh! Not so loud! I’m your friend, and you shouldn’t complain of a little thing like that when your frsen does it"
Poverty
point
“O. Gee”: I don’t know where he got his
information, but a theatrical chap who knew
Dion Boucicault’s very abrupt manner to
any but those in authority told me that
when the little man arrived at the Gate, St.
Peter opened it, beaming. “Ah, Mr. Bouci-
cault,” he greeted him, “we have been expect-
ing you.” Bouci looked him up and down.
“Send me the Head Man,” he said, coldly.
“Pip”: “An audition, my dear,” said a
cynic at Brisbane Empire the other night,
“is a voice trial at which 900 chorus-girls
turn up in the hope of obtaining one vacancy
in the cast which is already filled.”
“Gaiteh”: The other day the theatrical
critic of a North Island (M.L.) provincial
daily pounced joyously upon a misprint in an
English paper, which, in reporting a per-
formance of “The Mikado,” had said concern-
ing the part of Yum Yum, “Miss Patti
Russell’s Turn Turn was consistently charm-
ing.” But misprints are dangerous goods;
the scoffer’s own miserable comp, referred
to the show as “The Mixado.”
“Izaac Email”: Cabled death of Admiral
of the Fleet Sir Hedworth Meux (Capt.
Lambton in the S. African War) recalls the
music-hall star Val Ilhys, contemporary of
Peggy Pryde’s mother (Jenny Hill, the Vital
Spark) and the bright particular star of
the revels in which the old time chairman
announced artists between drinks. Val
Rhys married brewer Meux and Lambton
changed his name to comply with a condition
in her- unconventional will, which, by the
way, made a bequest to the Emperor Menelik.
It was Val Rhys who found the money to
permit antiquarian Dr. Budge to publish the
monumental translation of Ethiopian MS. at
the British Museum. Budge had waited
for 10 years for someone to defray the exes.,
and found her in the unlikely person of
an ex-music-hall star. The work was so big
that no printer in England could cope with
it, so Leipsic did the job. The translation
is prefaced by graceful and grateful dedica-
tion to Val Rhys.
“Monte Cristo”: Eugene O’Neill, whose
“Strange Interlude” is being introduced to
Australia at Sydney Playbox, had an up-and-
down career before his plays began to earn
handsome royalties. Son of an actor, he
went gold fossicking in Honduras as a
youth, and came home an invalid. He entered
the theatrical business as assistant manager
to. a touring co., and then signed on on a
windjammer bound for Buenos Ayres. In
the Argentine he toiled in the office of an
electrical firm, slung wool in a packing
plant, worked for a sewing-machine concern
and tended mules on a live-stock coaster.
Followed a period as a dead-beat in Buenos
Avres, from which he escaped as an ordinary
seaman on a British tramp steamer. Back
in U.S.A. he toured again, this time as an
actor. Then he became a reporter, was laid
up in a sanatorium for six months, and
afterwards entered Harvard University.
“The Web,” his first play, was written when
he was 24. He is now 41.
“Ces”: An old melodramatic property
revived by the talkies is the stage whisper.
In the silent film the thoughts of the villain,
heroine and hero were made known by the
sub-title, or the producer left the actions of
the players to tell the whole story. The other
day I saw a short talkie in which a poor
fellow escaped from gaol was being tempted
by the devils of his mind. “Shall I tike
the things belonging to me benefactah?'
came an audible aside whisper. Though
without the hand sheltering the mouth of the
bad bold man of yore, it was a striking
reminder of Bland Holt in his best melo-
drama days.
“Bronx” (New York) : “The Romance of
Hinemoa,” the all-Maori movie produced in
the Rotorua district, should never have been
released here in its present form, despite
endorsements of ex-Premier Gordon Coates.
It is inadequately titled, and foolproof titl-
ing is essential in these parts, as the public
is really ignorant of things Maoriland and
Australian. Indeed, shots in “Hinemoa,” are
accepted as scenes of the thousand smokes of
Yellowstone Park; the unfortunates are
blissfully ignorant that Maoriland has a finer
thermal region than the U.S. showplace.
However, the offering is being enjoyed and is
a good boost for M.L. tourist attractions.
Irma Caron, in Maori costume, supplies a
spoken and singing prologue with a charm
and grace which has completely captured
her audiences. Mordaunt Hall, the critic of
the New York Times, in summing up the
“H'inemoa”-Irma Caron offering, says, “In
fact, Miss Caron succeeds where the picture
fails.”
“G.M.S.”: O’Neill’s “Strange Interlude”
incited the moralists of Boston (U.S.A.) to
ban production of the play, but it got
square by winning the 1928 Pulitzer Prize
for the best original American play per-
formed in New York. To win that prize
a play has to “represent the educational
value and power of the stage in raising the
standard of good morals, good taste and
good manners.” Although no U.S. drama-
tist has been more assailed by the wowsers
of his land. O’Neill has pulled this prize
off on two other occasions: in 1920 with his
“Beyond the Horizon,” and in 1922 with
“Anna Christie.” Other recent Pulitzer
prize-winners have been Jesse Lynch Wil-
liams with “Why Marry” ; Zona Gale, “Miss
Lulu Bett”; Owen Davis, “Icebound”;
Hatcher Hughes, “Hell-bound for H'eaven” ;
Sidney Howard, “They Knew What They
Wanted”; George Kelly, “Craig’s Wife”;
and Paul Green, “In Abraham’s Bosom.”
Most of these are of .the provocative sex-
play type.
“Three Ages”: Freely paragraphed with
the demise of Sydney Tivoli that Chung
Ling Soo, one of its best-paid stars, passed
out in a theatre fire. That was Lafayette,
wno never came to Australia. . Chung died
dramatically while demonstrating that he
was impervious to rifle bullets. Something
went wrong and the bullet proved itself the
better man. The trick wasn’t a new one
either. At least one other magician died that
way, the inquest proving he had staged a
spectacular suicide.
“J.A.”: “Cauboy” (B. 13/11/’29) asserts
that deaf mutes can hear the talkies through
the new acoustic equipment being installed
in Melbourne Auditorium. This is impos-
sible ; the equipment will be a boon to “hard
of hearing” folk, but not to deaf mutes. A
few churches in Australia are already wired
with similar equipment, so the idea is not
novel. Deaf mutes were tested recently with
the audiometer, which measures the degree
of audition, and only a small percentage
have residual hearing. Dr. Gault’s teletactor
offers more hope to the afflicted. His tele-
tactile auditors teach them to distinguish
the pattern of speech by the aid of the sensi-
tive fingertips.
“O. Blin”: Talking of critics who have
been refused tickets by angry managers (B.
13/11/’29), I can enroll myself among that
small and blameful band. I also hold the
record for sprinting from an enraged com-
edienne to whom I was unchivalrous enough
to hand a bouquet of nettles. My time for
the three miles —the distance between my
office and my home —was about one minute
40 seconds. Edmund Fisher, The Bulle-
tin’s Melbourne critic for more than 30
years, had some joyous experiences. Once
wheii he labelled Lincoln Plumer the
“Bantock of melodrama” Plumer sent him
a box of liver pills, with instructions to take
a couple a day. Fisher politely thanked him
for the pills, adding: “I have long needed
some such medicine. Your acting has made
me very bilious.”
“Morita”: Though the talkies may not
suit deaf mutes owing to the lack of sub-
titles (B. 13/11/’29), they are a blessing to
one sightless Digger I know.. Previously his
money’s worth at an occasional flicks out-
ing with a war cobber was confined to listen-
ing to the orchestra. Now the dialogue, with
hints from his cobber as to what is doing
on the screen, gives him the film story.
“L.H.P.”: Cecil Ward, just dead in Eng-
land, was more than a good “juvenile.” lie
was one of the most versatile actors that
ever trod the Australasian boards. Saw him
play in a Knight tour of M.L. in 1899 the
widely different roles of Nero, Larolles
(“Under the Red Robe”), the heavy in “The
Lady of Lyons,” and the low comedy Tom
Dossitor in “Harbor Lights.” Sydney first
saw him on March 9, 1888, at the Cri., as
Tom Jones in “Sophia.” He created many
varied roles, notably the silly Viscount in
“The Amazons,” and in the classic revivals
played Claudio (“Much Ado”), Joseph Sur-
face (“School for Scandal”.) and Blount
(“Money”). Ned Annesley in . Sowing the
Wind” was another fine offering. Under
Charlie Westmacott’s regime at Sydney
.Majesty’s he played “The Spider" to Scot
Ingiis’s “Silver King.” With the Firm he
played Knight’s rOles on tour, and was a
capital Napoleon. With the Tyrone Power-
Edith Crane co. lie played Zorn Zou
(“Trilby”), Jean Defarge (“The Only
Way”) and Angel Clare (“Tess of the
D’Urbervilles”). In 1900 he drew all Syd-
ney to see him as D’Artagnan in “The
King’s Musketeer,” at Majesty’s. _ After
seasons at the Royal in 1901 with the
Broughs, he went back to England.
“L.H.P.”: Franco Izal, who played in
and produced “Carmen” recently at Sydney
Con., has a repertoire of 60 operas. Before
he came here with the Gonsalez co. he had
toured extensively in South America. If
he can manage it, Australia should hear
before long some of the beautiful but un-
known Spanish operas, such as Breton s
“Ladolores,” “Maruxa,” “Goyescas” and
“Jardin de Oriente.”
“Portia”: Written by Llywelyn Lucas, with
assistance in stagecraft from. Hal Eyre, an
Australian play for children is to be put on
at Brisbane Bohemia by Barbara Sisley on
December 2 and 3. It is claimed to be the
first play written in Bananaland to be pro-
duced in Brisbane, and is called “The Sun-
god’s Secret.” Australian ballets by Mar-
jorie Hollinshed and music by Edith Ilarrhy
are added local notes.
“Mac”: Barrington Waters, who went
west in Maoriland, knew the Poverty Points
of nearly all the States. He started with
Fullers at the old King’s, Dunedin, went
from there to look after the Melrose in
Perth, next to Melbourne Fullers, and later
opened the Brisbane Empire. Anyone who
knew hint would agree that the most appro-
priate epitaph would be “A Decent Cove.”
“Escamillo’s Ghost”: A performance of
“Carmen” at the Sydney Conservatorium
reminds that it was among the “bourgeois
operas of the capitalistic epoch,” which in
Russia were rewritten to comply with Com-
munistic theories. In the Soviet version
Carmen’s cigarette factory is transplanted
to Lodz (Poland) and Carmen is changed
from a gipsy into a young Yiddish Bolshevik.
Instead of lovemaking, she spouts Commu-
nistic catchwords, and Don Jose becomes
Captain Joseph, a policeman, whom Carmen
wins to the cause when he is sent to arrest
her. They join a band of agitators engaged
in smuggling contraband ammunition into
Russia; but when Carmen becomes entangled
with a Polish wrestler (Bizet made him a
Spanish bullfighter) Joseph stabs the pair,
and the curtain drops on Carmen fading out
eulogising the doctrines of Karl Marx.
“Mr. Cato”: As “C.Ma” (B. 23/10/’29)
observes, the movie producer will tackle any-
thing that has the flush of popularity upon
it. When Theodore Drieser received an
offer for the film rights of his monumental
“An American Tragedy” he couldn't believe
that the picture people were in earnest.
When he had their cheque for a princely
amount he observed, “Well, if they can
make a picture out of that book I’m ready
to sell them the moving-picture rights of the
letter E in the dictionary.”


*
f i
at
~ »
STILL THE SAME
IN WEIGHT,SIZE, QUALITY* £r PRICE
YOU CAN BUY
STATE EXPRESS 333 CIGARETTES
WITH THE CONFIDENCE THAT
THEY HAVE IN NO WAY BEEN
AFFECTED BY INCREASE IN TARIFF.
STATE EXPRESS STILL KEEPS FAITH-
WITH THE VAST PUBLIC WHO
ENJOY THE FINE QUALITY AND
FRAGRANCE 0f3355.
ST/yrt (xpßtss
CIGAR E-TTErS
STILL SUPREME- AT
20


ACCIDENTS WILL
ret
HAPPEN!!
A very thoughtful
Xmas present to
give a motoring
friend —this E'drst-
Aid Outfit.
In real pig-skin
case that fits in the
pocket of the car.
Its chief feature is
Chloro-lodine, a new preparation that
stops bleeding; cleanses, soothes and
heals wounds. Does not sting
nor stain. Bandages, scissors,
etc
15/6
ROTHWELLS OUTFITTING
-^LIMITED^
EDWARD STREET °Tb*BRISBANE
VICHY -
Ml
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Uver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled —Insist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike,
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
Bed and
Bre akfast
Tariff
if desired
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
L
E
T
H O
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel,” Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some December birthdays ;
Vic. artist Geo. Bell, 51, on Ist; Rev. Arthur H.
Garnsey (St. Paul’s Coll., Syd.), 57, on 3rd; Vic.
Chief Sec. Dr. Argyle, 62, artist Jas. Quinn, 59,
Dr. Rivett (Scientific and Industrial Research
Council), 44, and Jas. D. Connolly (former W.A.
Agent-Gen.), 60, on 4th; Major-Gen. Gellibrand, 57,
and Dr. Chas. Anderson (Australian Museum, Syd.),
52, on sth; Justice Brennan (Q.), 45, and W. J.
Denny (ex S. Aus. Attorney-Gen.), 57, on 6th;
Bishop Stephen (formerly of Newcastle), 69, and
John M. Higgins (Bawra), 67, on 9th; D’Arcy W.
Addison (Speck), 57, on 10th; Bishop Thomas
(Adel.), 60, on 11th; B. S. Roach (S. Aus. educa-
tionist), 65, on 12th; Brig.-Gen. H. A. • Goddard
(London Times representative), 59, and etcher John
Shirlow, 60, on 13th; Geo. Ritchie, M.L.C. (S. Aus.
former Treasurer), 65, on 14th; W. Warren Kerr
(Melb.), 65, on 15th; Dr. Cecil Purser (Syd.),
67, John Gunn (ex S. Aus. Premier), 44, Senator
Chapman (S. Aus.), 50, Arthur Griffith (former
N.S.W. Minister), 67, and artist Elioth Gruner, 47,
on 16th; aviator Keith Smith, 39, and Herbert
Brookes (Commis.-General in U.S.A.), 62, on 20th;
Major-Gen. McCay, 65, ex-Premier Joseph Carruthers,
LANGDON BONYTHON, of the Adelaide
AdDVERTISER, who has just been enter-
tained on completing 40 years’ con-
tinuous service as chairman of the
council which manages the Adelaide
School of Mines—S. Australia’s one
great technical training institution.
72, J. E. Davidson (News, Ltd.), 59, and W. E.
Rogers (S. Aus. Auditor-Gen.), 65, on 21st; Justice
Harvey (N.S.W.), 64, on 22nd; Lewis Cohen (Adel-
aide’s ex-Gaud Mayor), 80, on 23rd; J. 11. M.
Abbott, 55, on 26th; Prof. R. W. Chapman (Adel.
Uni.), 63, on 27th; knight Geo. M. Allard, 63,
on 28th; Federal Treasurer Theodore, 45, on 29th;
and Prof. Archibald Strong, 53, on 30th.
Scullin is Australia’s ninth Prime Minister
and the third Victoria has supplied, as
against five from N. S. Wales and one from
Queensland. The Victorians have all been
native products; the others, except Barton,
were born overseas. Of the three smaller
States Westralia has come nearest to land-
ing the Commonwealth’s biggest job; it was
only by one vote that Forrest was beaten
for the leadership of the Liberal party a
few months before Joe Cook became Prime
Minister. What made it harder for Forrest
was that the vote was Deakin’s.
H. V. Evatt, already 8.A., M.A., LL.B.
and LL.D of Sydney Uni. and M.L.A. for
Balmain, has become a K.C. The remarkable
young man was born at East Maitland and
went to the Uni. from Fort-street High;
he has been 11 years at the Bar and is still
only 35. Though nominally under the A.L.I.
executive ban, Evatt gets heaps of Labor
briefs and is a strong tip for a High Court
Judgeship. There is a
vacancy on that Bench,
no appointment having
been made since Powers
resigned; moreover, Duffy
has been out of action
during most of his 78t.h
year. He has announced
his retirement from poli-
tics in any case.
William Harrington
Palmer, the N.S.W. offi-
cial assignee, dead at 63,
was a sound commercial
lawyer, an able business
man, and a prince of good
fellows. He was inter-
ested in music, the drama
and every kind of sport,
and he loved, and was a
sound judge of, good
literature. No one knew
more about Sydney’s hid-
den financial skeletons,
and no one gossiped less
or was kindlier in his
judgments. He had been
a prominent member of
the Union Club for just
on 30 years.
If Melbourne solicitor
A. G. Proudfoot gets the
Bast Yarra seat in Vic.
Uppish Chambah he may
turn out a second J. M.
Davies. Thirty years ago
the late Col. Reay, then
editor of Melbourne
Hekald, discovered
Proudfoot in the Haw-
thorn branch of the A.N.A. and urged lnm
not to confine his attention to chasing Costs
but to give some public service. As he is
only about 52 he is still young enoug'h to
make his mark. He has been chief president
of the A,N,A, and Mayor of Box Hill.
E. B. Greenup, dead in Brisbane, was an
Australian in all hut birth, and one of the
best. Educated at King’s School, Parra-
matta (his father was medical officer at the
Hospital for the Insane and was killed by
a patient), the youngster went to Queens-
land in 1872, following the rush to Stan-
thorpe. He was lucky enough to get into
the Brisbane claim, one of the richest allu-
vial tin-mines the world has seen. Greenup
was a pioneer of tobacco-growing in Queens-
land, and erected the first factory to make
tobacco from Australian leaf. H'e was S 2
at the end.
The 20 members re-elected to Vic. Assem-
bly unopposed comprise a butcher, a secre-
tary, a solicitor, a cooper, a bootmaker, an
electrical engineer, a compositor, a news-
agent, a clerk, an estate-agent, a “legislator,
two graziers, two farmers, a storekeeper, a
barber, a saddler, an orchardist and a com-
pany manager.
M. Eltinger, the Palestinian barrister who
came to Australia to be the first general
secretary of the Zionist Federation, is return-
ing to an appointment at the Jerusalem
University. I. K. Sampson succeeds him.
Sampson, one of the strongest Jewish nation-
alists in these parts, is a Sydney accountant.
Tom Wilford, who succeeds C. J. Parr
as Maoriland’s Agent-General, is . an old
Parliamentary hand; his record runs back to
1900. A lawyer by profession, he got his
first portfolio—Justice —in the Massey-Ward
National Cabinet, and in 1919, Ward having
lost his seat, he became leader of the Oppo-
sition. He wasn’t very forceful in that capa-
city, and he relinquished the job with relief
to George Forbes, the present Minister of
Lands. Wilford became Minister of Justice
again in WatcPs Intest team. In his youth
he was a footballer of renown, representing
his province, Wellington. He married a very
wealthy girl, daughter of knight Geprge
McLean, and should shine in London sociely.
Pat McGarry, formerly M.L.A. for Mur-
rumbidgee, is ill in a Sydney private hos-
pital When nominations were called tor
Murrumbidgee in 1904, McGarry was chasing
the ’weight on the Garangula goldfield. He
plodded through the constituency on well-
worn blucher boots, camping and feeding
where he could. After the declaration ot
the poll, Pat caught the train for Sydney.
“Bhoy,” he said to a fellow-passenger, sur-
veying his comparatively luxurious. sur-
roundings, “this is better than slilapin m
a tent.’’ A son of the old hand is after
the Labor nomination for Ryde.
Clemeneeau’s crowded life has ended, at
88. As a young man the Tiger helped to
BISHOP MOYES, who goes to Armi-
dale ( N.S.W. ) from suburban
Unley (S.A.), where he did great
organising work. He devotes
himself specially to young men ,
and is one of the best.
tumble the third Napoleon’s empire in the
dust; in his old age he was in at the death
of the Prussian and Austrian empires He
was the greatest of all the political war
leaders, and no man did more to prop up
French resistance to the Central Powers
when it was crumbling. France ranked him
with Foch in its official expression of grati-
tude, but the Presidency of the Republic was
denied him by his many enemies. In him
Australia has lost a friend. After Hamel
the grand old fighter speeded to the Diggeis
front to express his thanks in person; when
a group of Australian newspaper editors
went to Europe during the war at the
request of the British
Government he asked
to be given a meeting
with them in Paris;
and he steadfastly
supported the Austra-
lian and Maoriland
case at Versailles.
Knocked down and
injured by a heavy
man, who was rush-
ing to catch a train,
W. P. Heathershaw,
permanent head of
the Vic. Chief Sec.'s
Department, received
such a shock that
heart trouble, eased
some time ago by
treatment, recurred —
fatally. He was one
of three brothers who
have all done well as
civil servants. Syd
is sec. of the Vic.
Police department and
J.T. sec. of the Com-
monwealth Treasury.
Talking of linguists,
the late Archbishop
Delany, of Hobart,
could do pretty well.
He could discourse in
Latin, French, Greek,
Spanish, German and
Italian, and was
learned in Hebrew and
Arabic. At congresses
in Germany he gave
addresses in English,
French, German and Latin.
Mention has been made of the fa.ct that
there were 13 Australians and Maornanders
amongst the audience of 29 Britons who
surveyed the Sydney-Emden scrap from a
box-seat on Cocos Island. Here are the
names of them : H. S. Rowley, C. M. I re-
shaw, G. H. K. La Nauze (who sent out the
SOS signal), C. E. Shields, R. H. C. Green
(born in Port Darwin), A. W. J. Peake,
J. S. Triggs (son of a well-known Maon-
land journalist), P. Croft, E. G. Beauchamp,
A. R. Lenthall, K. M. Campbell, C. W.
Burnett and M. M. Stewart.
E E. Smith, chief architect in the Vie.
Public Works Department, whorn N.S.W.
has induced to accept a similar job inbyd-
ney, designed Melb. High School, the Emily
McPherson College of Domestic Economy,
the Police Depot in St. Kilda-road, and
other public buildings of note. He is SJ,
but doesn’t look it. A 50 p.c. rise in screw
was the lure. Besides, Smith found that
some Vic. politicians knew heaps more
about architecture and estimates than he did.
It is matter for doubt whether Westralia
would have had a university, even to-day,
had it not been for John Wmthrop Hackett;
it certainly wouldn’t have had one 20 years
ago unless the editor-proprietor of the West
Australian had made its establishment Ins
pet project. He hammered away at it year
after year in Parliament when others weie
lukewarm, and never rested content till the
undertaking was fairly launched. And h } s
services didn’t cease with his life —he died m
1916. The Black Swan, the Uni. magazine,
publishes a picture in its last issue of
Hackett in his Chancellor’s robes, briefly
noting that “his will benefited the University
to the extent of over half a million pounds.
The first award of the H. G. Smith mem-
orial medal goes to Dr. A. C. D. Rivett,
Professor of Chemistry at Melbourne Urn.
Eldest son of the Rev. A. Rivett, the pacifist,
the brilliant young man was one of the
early Victorian Rhodes Scholars, and Alfred
Deakin was his father-in-law. He has in
Sydney a younger brother, of red hair and
enthusiasm, who has done notable work as
a medico on his own account.
,C F. Marden, who has been running the
3LO studio for the A.8.C., has been placed
in command of all Australian stations.
Marden has had 20 years of the theatrical
game. Broadcasting has widened his experi-
ence of human nature, too. From 3LO he
sent out an appeal for clothes for the Mel-
bourne unemployed. Clobber of all sorts and
in every degree of disrepair rolled in from
all over the Commonwealth, and even from
islands in the South Seas. Amongst the
heap was an overcoat from a remote hamlet
in the Speck which passed through the com-
mittee’s hands without exciting remark.
A few weeks later came a frantic SOS
from the sender stating that the garment
had belonged to her father, and that secreted
in the lining was the old man's will. The
overcoat is still at large.
The death in Melbourne of W. H. Brown-
less, of Yanko, Jerilderie (N.S.W.), has re-
called that his dad, who had a handle to his
name, was Chancellor of Melbourne Uni.
for several years, preceding Chief Justice
John Madden (also under the sod). W.li.
was a chip off the old block. He Avas in
e\ T ery district movement —pastoral, agricul-
tural, racing and the rest. Jerilderie gave
him a great funeral.
T. P. O’Connor, late “Father” of the House
of Commons, where he sat for 49 years, was
a good deal of an anomaly. As an Irish
Nationalist he obstructed with the best of
them in the early days of Parnellism, but
he was really more of a journalist than a
politician, and while his more impetuous
colleagues were going to gaol for their beliefs,
“Tay Pay” was busy founding and editing
gossipy newspapers which the British public
bought all the more readily because there was
little or no politics in them. When one of
his journals was established well enough to
be a saleable proposition, O’Connor would
sell it and presently start another on the
same lines. He knew everyone, and he
popularised “mainly about people” stuff
just as Newnes popularised “titbits” stuff. In
Parliament no member was more highly
regarded than the veteran Home Ruler, who
had lived to see Home Rule carried but
remained an English M.P.
T. P. O'Connor was the first editor to
bring humor into London daily journalism.
During the Parnell Commission, whose find-
ings nearly ruined the Times, the forger
Piggott had been trapped by Sir Charles
Russell over a mis-spelling. “Hesitate” was
spelt “hesitctc” in the Times document, and
on being asked by Russell to write the word
Piggott wrote “hesitete.” He disappeared
before the Court rose (he afterwards com-
mitted suicide), and “T.P.’s” Star posters
came out with “He who ‘hesitetes’ is lost.”
Jack Lemmon, who has been re-elected
unopposed for Williamstown, has been a
Vic. Assemblyman for 27 years. He lias
been before the electors of his seaside con-
stituency 13 times, and three Labor Pre-
miers have made him Minister of Education.
He described himself in his nomination-paper
as a Legislator, but if he left politics to-
morrow he could make a living at his old
trade of tailor’s cutter, or he could run a
friendly society as gen. sec.
A. G. F. Munro, a big-gun N.S.W. squat-
ter, with cattle-runs on both sides of the
north-east border, passed out a few days
ago at Goodar, near Goondiwindi. H'e was
86, and was engaged in camp-drafting almost
to the last. Grounded in fhe West Maitland
Public School, he was taken from there to
manage Booligar for his father when he was
only 16. There are three smart sons, all
crack riders, to carry on. Roily Munro is
one of the swiftest in the State at cattle-
throwing. In a competition at Morce he
galloped up to a running beast, tumbled it
over with a swing of its tail, dismounted
and hog-tied its legs in 36sec.
R. T. Love, whom the Ma State stole from
Victoria to preside
over its Hospitals
Commission, is put-
ting in steady
work. In Vic-
toria, which has
an efficient check-
ing system, he
never heard a mur-
mur about organ-
isers whose collec-
tions for “charity"
are barely suffi-
cient to meet
“administration ex-
pen s e s.” It is
otherwise in N. S.
Wales. Love wont
abroad in 1927.
Chicago welcomed
him by depositing
two corpses and a
hospital case under
his hotel window
the night he
arrived.
E. G. BONNEY,
Chief of Staff of
Melbourne
HERALD.
A. H. Merrin, sec. for Public Works and
Mines (Vic.), is to retire in three months
after his extension of six months. He was
formerly Chief Inspector of Mines, and had
shown capacity for administrative work
before he became a permanent head.
Merrin is a master of civil engineering of
Melb. Uni. and counts President Hoover
among his friends; they met up Castlemaine
way. A handy all-rounder with _ a calm
temperament and a knack of managing men,
he will be missed in the State service.
CLEMENCEAU.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was for France; no yielding came with
years . . ,
In his defeatless soul. His patriot zeal
Flamed glorious ’mid others’ doubts and
fears. . ,
Dauntless he stood, a shield of tempered
Against all coward acts or thoughts that
shanje,
Steadfast and constant until victory came.
The world pays tribute to the spirit high
That lives on yet, though Death has
brought him peace.
The quenchless ardor may not fade or die,
The glowing patriotism ever cease
He gave a nation smitten by mischance.
It lives —the spirit of unbeaten France!
N.S.W.
HAMKR.


SOCIETY
and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS
MULTIPLICATION.
“Poor old Smithsom—he used to soak a dozen drinks a day when I knew him. What’s
he like now?”
“Oh, he’s doubled up with age.”
“Miranda”: You never know where Cupid
won’t get in some of his fine work. Last
season a girl friend of mine whose figure
is of the .slimmest was frolicking in
the first breaker at Bondi when she sud-
denly discovered that, in ducking under with
her arms down beside her, she had slipped
right out of her one-piece bathing costume.
There was not a soul near her that she
knew. Naturally, she screamed- A male
bather near by must have thought she had
cramp, for he gave a reassuring cry and
made towards her with great speed. The
distressed damsel, with just her nose out
of the water, only prevented him from seizing
hold of her by frantically jerking out: “I’ve
lost my costume! Whatever will I do?”
“Stop screaming,” he told her, “and swim
out further; I’ll find it.” And after diving
a few times he did and restored it to her,
and she managed to climb into it somehow.
The acquaintance thus begun developed
rapidly; they are to be married early next
year.
* * $ $
“Teller” : In a country bank I refused to
accept a penny with a hole near the edge.
The client seemed a bit annoyed, mentioning
that the coin had been taken in good faith
by him, A few days later he made a deposit
which apparently included two halfpennies.
Upon receiving his deposit slip duly signed
and stamped he remarked as he left, “I
cut the loss on that penny, anyhow.” I
was puzzled as to what he meant till it
occurred to me to re-examine the coin in
the deposit; then I found that one of the
halfpennies was actually the penny which
had been rejected, now filed or cut down
to halfpenny size. I enclose the exhibit so
that you may see what an excellent job he
made of it, but I refuse to tell his nation-
ality.
❖ * *
“Mells”: It isn’t only cherished Austra-
lian symbols that are liable to be distorted.
In the early days of W.A. mining, when
minted gold was as scarce as the other sort
was supposed to be abundant, a t’otherside
prospector, heading for Southern Cross,
bought some flour and meat off a York
cocky and tendered a sovereign in payment.
The agriculturist, a Groper of the old school
who was quite unused to any currency above
silver excepting W.A. banknotes or orders
on old-established firms like Shenton or
Monger, eyed the coin dubiously. What
guarantee had he of its value, he asked.
The outlander pointed out the superscription
and the Queen’s head, but the cocky seemed
only partially satisfied. Turning it over in
his hand he encountered St. George and the
dragon. “What’s this?” he . demanded sus-
piciously. The t’othersider took a chance.
“That’s John Forrest killing a bungarra”
(the W.A. edition of a goanna), he told the
other manfully. The name worked like a
charm; the farmer accepted the sovereign
as legal tender, and the yarn was told up
and down the colony, from the Kimberleys
to Esperance.
* * * *
“Sparemy Daze”: Just as well to think
twice when you’re giving a “reference.” Or
three times might be better. Blinks has a
receiving depot for his motor-vans. There
are at times a few pounds’ worth of stuff
stored there; and once in a pink moon a
cream-cart or the like makes an early call
with goods for dispatch, or some other
local resident calls for a parcel brougm
up by motor-truck. Last year a man applied
to Blinks for a job; he was a “full” pen-
sioner, couldn’t do hard toil, but suggested
that he would be very glad to look after the
depot (unattended until then) for a few bob
a week and the right to live in the room
adjoining. He did quite well, but by and by
said it was too lonely and announced that
he was off back to Melbourne. Before he
went he asked for a “reference” ; it might
help him to get a job sometime, he said, and
as the boss was writing it he suggested that
he should be called a watchman. Two
months later Blinks got a claim for over
£lOO, the difference between the award rate
for watchmen and what Blinks had actually
paid. The defence was going on merrily
until the existence of the “reference” was
discovered with the statement that the plain-
tiff had been “employed as a watchman.”
That knocked the bottom out of it, though
certainly the plaintiff hadn’t the face to
actually come into court—his lawyer
accepted a compromise,
* * * *
“Shop”: Along Darlinghurst-road (Syd-
ney) one of Flatland’s pampered Poms., on
the latest thing in leads, followed its doting
mistress, only to be suddenly swept into the
arms of a chic and petite flapper amidst
shrieks that at last she’d found her little
darling. Instead of settling the matter in the
Amazonian fashion customary only a few
streets citywards, the pair, after a wordy
warfare, agreed to let the dog itself decide
whom it belonged to. They were to separate,
and each was to call, whistle or do anything
else to entice the pet to her, the winner
to be the one whose blandishments were
shccessful. The enthusiasm spread to an
onlooker, who offered to referee and make
it a “fair go” by taking the dawg up the
road a bit to give it a start. There were
further shrieks when, instead of stopping,
referee, dog and all disappeared around a
corner. Two frantic females tore in pursuit,
only to glimpse a car flying towards town.
* ’ * ❖ ❖
“Thirdovaquid”: A queer little difficulty
has had Maoriland’s horsehair tied in knots.
It has been illegal to sell liquor in the
SWEET NOTHINGS.
EFFIE : “No, darling, love-making is just the same as it always
was.”
ZOE: “Yes, I suppose it is. I know I once read about a Greek
maiden who sat and listened to a lyre all the evening."
town of Ashburton (M.L.) since 1903
when the district went dry by local
option A year or two ago the elector-
ate ceased to exist owing to an alteration
of boundaries, and as it was no longer a
no-license district the former lessee of the
principal hotel applied for a license, which
was refused by the licensing committee. He
fought his case up to the Court of Appeal,
which held that no license could be granted
in the circumstances, the Legislature having
forgotten to provide for such a case. Once
a district goes dry it can only become wet
again by a three-fifths majority of the elec-
tors, and as Ashburton is no longer a dis-
trict it can’t restore its vanished beer-pump
even if it could muster a whole five-fifths
majority. '
* < * ' ,
“Sigsarg” t I can tell of one occasion
when pigeons, were successfully used to con-
vey an SOS in France (B. .6/11/29). On
July 5. 1916, at Pozieres, Fritz unexpectedly
sent over the Prussian Guards. The first
two waves got into our lines, and then our
barrage started. At the first. sign of Fritz's
movement we had sent a warning by pigeons;
and though they had to fly back to their
lofts, and though the messages they carried
had to be then relayed by telegraph to Saus-
age Valley, only 13 minutes passed between
the dispatch of the birds and the answer of
our guns. They saved the day by enabling
us to hold the ridge.
* § * *
“Chcvroford” : Melbourne missed the
quaintest turn Wirths’ circus has put on by
most of it being inside the theatres. The
turn in question was the passage of Alice,
the pride of the elephant herd, through the
city on a recent evening. Alice carried a
crew of two and, although she grossly
violated all naval precedent by not hanging
out port and starboard lights, she had a
hurricane lamp hoisted at the masthead. It
was the most entrancing thing in the world
to see the gigantic beast ambluig solemnly
along in the wake of the traffic, stopping
with a titanic lurch when the cop held up
his hand and starting again with dignified
deliberation when she got the right signal.
An impatient motorist who was obliged to
travel in low gear under Alice s counter
for some distance became vocal on the. sub-
ject of exotic animals m the city, but the
lady took no notice. She had as much busi-
ness there as he had. She was going to lil t
some cages out of trucks at opencer-street.
* .. , , „ .
“Sclinorrer : Somebody says that Russia
was “never much addicted to soap
20/11/'29). When the United Relief Com-
mission was trying to alleviate conditions
in the Ukraine, where, after the war, mob-
rioting and pillage, famine and pestilence
followed one another till they were all mixed
up together, it sent along a trainload of
badly-needed’ soap—and the people ate it. I
don’t know lioav they managed to get it down ;
but there’s a Sydney woman who was among
the Commission’s workers, and she says that
the natives made no wry faces over it.
* * * *
“Selma” : A Sydney woman shopping in
Darlin "hurst parked the pram containing
h e r infant outside a large emporium, and
left her two small girls to look after it.
The children dutifully watched the baby,
and were extremely flattered when an elderly
woman came along and went into raptures
over its beauty. She insisted on picking it
up and rocking it in her arms; then she
begged to be allowed to carry it “just to the
corner for a little walk.” The first touch
of anxiety came when the kind lady went
beyond the corner; a few minutes later the
mother returned to find the children in tears
and the baby still missing. She rushed to
the police station. Late that afternoon a
lodger in a cheap tenement house heard a
baby wailing in an empty room, and the
lost one, hungry and minus its clothing, was
handed over to the district police. The in-
fant's wardrobe was traced to a local pawn-
brokers.
* * * *
“Oxmead” : Something about the name of
a man standing his
trial before a
Judge for a parti-
cularly impudent
swindle seemed
faintly familiar. I
went on to read
that his age was
40, and that he was
from a certain part
of Australia —and
suddenly a vivid
picture came back
that was registered
on my brain 32
years ago. A re-
mote seaport police
court, a 14-year-old
lad in the dock, so
undersized that he
had to be stood on
a chair for the
magistrate to see
him, a damning tale
of petty delinquen-
cies and no defence
worth speaking of.
The magistrate was
a kindly soul, and
regretted for the
sake of the juven-
ile prisoner’s par-
ents, who were
decent people, that
he could do nothing
less than commit
the boy to a refor-
matory for a term.
He threw in some
good advice, too,
and the lad wept
contritely until
everyone was more
or less affected.
Thirty-two years
ago, and I won-
dered how many
courts he had faced
in the interval. Of
course reforma-
tories can’t grow
figs on thistles,
but it is a question
if they don’t some-
times make crab-
apples a little
sourer.
~ ,
Maible Bar . Queer accidents. A
woman of Cue (W.A.), fairly stout and well
on in years, was living in a cottage by lier-
self. Missed from her usual social circle, she
was sought and found jambed tightly in a
beer case. She had sat on the side of the
empty case to put her boots on, and over-
balanced with her arms jambed and her feet
over her head. That happened on the Sun-
day morning, and it was noon on Tuesday
when she was found,
* * * *
“Dumo”: No need to go to fantan joints
see a Chinese joss despitefully treated. A
Chinese gardener in the Fairfield (N.S.W.)
district found in a splendid crop of young
beans and tomatoes ample evidence of his
.Toss’s favor, and rewarded the image with
f re quent sacrifices. A couple of weeks ago
a SCV ere hailstorm swept the district, leav-
j n g behind a trail of havoc. John’s produce
suffered sorely and after the storm he was
geon carry liis god into the middle of his
devastated garden, gesticulating wildly, and
shrieking, “Look! Look!” When the idol
was considered to be sufficiently impressed
w itli a sense of its own impotence, the
angry Celestial proceeded to mete out salu-
tary chastisement with a tomato stake,
* * *
‘ . ~ ,
Cadonga : Lhe emigrant maid who
described the kookaburra and boomerang
brooch as "a cookbird and his wishbone”
(B. 13/11/’29) reminds me of a girl behind
the counter of a little shop in an English
village during the war. I had tendered an
Australian sixpence m payment for a packet
of cigarettes, and my uniform no doubt
moved her to be critical. She carefully
examined the coin, paying particular atten-
tion to the emu and kangaroo. Then she
handed it back with: Sorry, Aussie. Us
doan’t take they bird-and-rat sixpences,
* * * *
“Hotham”: How quickly the old order
c i ianges j s seoll j n SO me recent comment on
the Amo ncan Wild West by Professor
Osborne, of Melbourne University, who has
j US £ completed a tour of the region endeared
ug Hollywood an d countless American
ma kers of fiction. All the rough stuff is
found in American cities nowadays, says
p ro f. 5 while such storied stamping-
grounds of Billy the Kid and Wild Bill
ni c kock as Tombstone City and Abilene
are as law-abiding as Parramatta and Wind-
sor. Even Dodge City, where the immortal
g a j- Masterson contributed 42 corpses on his
own to the local cemetery on Boot Hill, has
f a j] en f rom its old celebrity. When the Pro-
fessor w-as there the only excitement was an
egg-layiug competition!
. * * *
'
“Gouger : The horse was of paramount
importance in Sinai and Palestine, and
Farrier-Quartermaster Cook was the magician
who saw that the sth Light Horse never
lacked remounts, even when a dozen noddies
were wounded by the one shell-burst. His
method of obtaining “spares” was to annex
every horse suspected of being a nomad. It
was said of the sth that they faked more
lioof-brands, dyed more coats and pinched
more horses than any brigade among
Allenby’s crusaders, but that was mostly
jealousy. Anyway, Cook did not mount the
complete regiment on his own. My third
horse I acquired myself when the Indian
officer’s groom who was minding it was
asleep.
SONG OF PSYCHOLOGICAL PIRATES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jones and Brown and Robinson, •
Not to mention me,
Sitting stolidly a-row,
Solemn as can be,
While a whining juggernaut
Takes us home to tea.
All the world belongs to us—
Robinson and Brown,
Jones and I, co-heritors —
Hill and vale and down!
Ah! what use? See, twining us,
Tentacles of town!
Every smug and solemn ass
Wears a poker face,
Starched with urban rectitude,
Primly keeping place
While the stupid streets slide by
Like a nightmare race.
Jones and Robinson and I,
Brown and all are set
Here before the grim old gods,
Comedy’s quartette!
How they chuckle at the jest
We don’t fathom —yet!
Brown goes in for Sunday-schools,
Jones is Rechabite;
Robinson and I attend,
In the seemly night,
Certain glum societies
Quite intensely right.
Jones and Brown and Robinson,
Not forgetting me,
On a pirate’s quarter-deck
Putting out to sea,
Swart, with throats all bare and bronzed,
Cursing stridently!
Rolling in the scuppers drunk;
Pistolling the crew;
Kcrchief-turbaned, peering out
O’er the blinding blue —
Raw beneath our smug restraint,
This we fain would do.
Well, perhaps ! Or so we dream,
Now we’re half-awake!
Jones is taking mullet home,
Robinson some steak,
Brown is clutching at a bag
Rich with rainbow cake.
Primly perching mute and masked,
Clowns of Destiny,
We have won their laughter well,
Earned the grim gods’ glee,
Jolted in our juggernaut
Tamely home to tea !
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


“The H'ippogryph”: Despite the preva-
lence and plausibilty of the travelling sales-
man, sartorial convention dies hard in the
country. There are still places in interior
N.S.W. where kid gloves are regarded as
the hall-inark of well-dressedncss for women.
There was a gala dance in view and when
I went my rounds a few days before most of
the district ladies wanted kid gloves. “What
color?” I queried, rather staggered by such
a demand in that locality. “Oh, any color.”
said they obligingly, “but they must be
kid!” It was the only touch of novelty
wanted, and I had a great clearance of
left-over and impossible-shade “kids” in
unheard-of sizes.
* * * *
“Old Bailey’*: There was quite a stir of
excitement in the Supreme Court, Sydney,
the other day when a man who had received
a cumulative sentence and been given a
“Kathleen Mavourneen” in addition addressed
a string of bloodcurdling remarks to the
Judge before he was hustled “down below.”
’Sonali, it was stated, ignored the outbreak.
Even more drastic protests from the dock
have been known in England. Not so many
years ago a Judge was laid out by a well-
aimed hobnailed boot, which the prisoner had
furtively slipped off while listening to the
judicial remarks. But mostly the violence is
confined to threats. The classical instance is of
a racecourse rough sentenced to death for
murder by Hawkins, J., a well-known patron
of racecourses. “Orright, ’Awkins, you ole
blighter.” said the condemned man with
emphasis as he was led off. “.Test you see
if I ever give yer another tip as long as I
live.”
* * * *
“Gregor”: John Dailey stresses the bath-
ing habits of the Romans (B. IS/11/'2D),
but he ignores the fact that they didn't
bathe for the sake of cleanliness. Even the
patricians were anything but well washed,
as we understand the term. The baths of
Caracalla were enormous structures, but they
consisted mainly of .steaming and massage-
rooms, mere devices for getting rid of the
after-effects of hectic nights. Bathing in
Imperial Rome consisted of a hurried dip
in warm water and a quick rubbing down,
followed by a slow and liberal anointing
with perfumed unguents. The man of fashion
would often pay four or five visits a day
to the public baths, simply because the
fashionable world gathered there. Bathing
didn’t mean washing; indeed, there was no
such thing as soap—the nearest approach
to a detergent was an occasional scraping
with an implement like a currycomb. Yet,
strangely enough, while Rome was becom-
ing decadent, there is definite evidence that
the Pannonians, the Scythians, the Hyr-
canians and at least some of the Gaulish
tribes, all despised as barbarians, made a
kind of soap from grease and ashes and used
HER MODESTY COMPELLED HER.
“Why d’you want to get brown in such a hurry?”
“Well, one feels so nude without a coat of some sort.”
it These were the races which ultimately
overthrew Rome, though soap afterwards
fell, into disfavor among them and was not
rediscovered for centuries.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Attempts by Melbourne’s under-
world to rescue those of its members
who have incurred official disfavor are not
confined to Pentridge. Recently a police
patrol unit was struck by the curious be-
havior of four boys in a car manoeuvring in
the vicinity of the Royal Park Homes. Giv-
ing chase they overtook their quarry, which
was immediately" abandoned by the crew of
juveniles. Having captured one of them the
cops elicited the confession that they had
interrupted a plot to release several boys in-
carcerated in the homes on various charges.
Hacksaws, files and ropes were among the
exhibits. The adolescents belonged to the
juvenile section of the organisation known
to the police as the Hawk’s Eye gang.
* * * *
“Cartot”: They have some Draconian
penalties for offenders, especially strangers,
m Mandated Territory law courts. Last
August three members of a ship’s crew
went ashore at Rabaul, absorbed quantities
of strong waters and became involved with
the local police. They were arrested and
charged with drunkenness, riotous beha\ioi
and some minor breaches of the peace. A
few days later the Rabaul Central Court
sentenced each of them to two years hard
labor at Long Bay (Sydney), where they
now are. Two of the prisoners being cx-
Imperial Service men with good records, the
R.S.S.I.L. has taken the matter up, and, fol-
lowing upon its representations, tiic 1 ederal
Government is to ask the Rabaul Adminis-
tration to review the sentences. Should it
decline to do so the terms will have to be
served, even though no magistrate in Aus-
tralia would have inflicted such a punish-
ment. .
* * * *■
“Cadonga”: A Digger in the 40th Bat-
talion owed his liberty if not his hie to Ins
tendency to stutter in moments of
excitement. One foggy night the
rest of the patrol with whom lie was
on duty in No Man’s Land moved
ahead, and he was crawling in the
direction he believed they had taken.
Presently he heard some whispering,
and made out two or three figures.
Believing himself with his patrol
again he kept close behind them
until the party changed direction
sharply. The Digger pommelled the
man immediately in front of him,
for he was positive that they were
making towards the enemy front line.
Wliat he wanted to say was: “Look
out, we’re going the wrong way,
but he could get no further than "L-
-l-100-loo” when a German flare went
up and showed -him that he was on
the heels of half a dozen of the
enemy. Nimbler with his feet than
his tongue, he sprang up and bolted
in the opposite direction, never stop-
ping until he tumbled head over heels into
one of our bombing posts.
* * * *
“Kappa”: The difficulty in obtaining
human blood for transfusion purposes (B.
(>/11/’2f)) is much less than that of pro-
curing malarial blood of the proper sort for
patients suffering from general paralysis of
the insane. The malarial strain required
for this purpose must be a pure and unmixed
one, which disqualifies about 95 per cent,
of those who have contracted malaria in
tropical countries. Moreover, the cycle
through which the organism passes in tlm
g.p.i. patient is not the same as the life-
cycle in which mosquito and human being
play the chief parts; hence the strain is
liable to die out abruptly and leave the
patient stranded in the midst of treatment.
High prices are frequently offered for
malarial blood, but hardly one applicant in
50 is found to be capable of delivering the
type required.
He * *
“Phil Stone”: The alchemists in Christ-
church (M.Li.) who claim to be able to make
synthetic gold should be interested in the
story of Franz Tausend, a tinker, of Munich,
who established some reputation among the
confiding Bavarian peasantry for his alleged
achievements in this line. Finally, he man-
aged to interest General Ludendorff .and a
number of capitalists in his “invention,” and
even secured a grant of £3OOO from the
Bavarian Government. Tausend had pocketed
about £400.000. and paid his backers divi-
ends of £300,000 in bullion, when it was dis-
covered that instead of making the gold he
bought it from jewellers in Berlin and Ham-
burg. He fled to Switzerland, was arrested,
extradited and sentenced to a long term of
imprisonment. Nevertheless he persisted in
claiming that, although he hadn't made the
gold he showed to liis dupes, he possessed
the secret of doing so, and he was so plaus-
ible that at last he was let loose in the
laboratory of the Munich Mint with some
lead and such appliances as he said he
needed. After first searching him minutely
the committee that conducted the test, locked
him in the laboratory, and —here’s where the
story gets really interesting—he manufac-
tured, so a recent cable records, “several
grammes of fine gold.” Tausend is such a
clever devil that the outside world won’t be
much impressed, but his release, as prelude
to a Teutonic drive to “revolutionise the
world’s financial situation,” is forecast.
* * * *
“Nakh” : According to a cable widespread
unrest is being felt amongst South African
Moslems on account of a prophecy emanat-
ing from Medina. Most likely itjs the ortho-
dox prediction which crops up in Islam
almost as frequently as similar forebodings
in Christendom. According to Mohammedan
cosmogony the world is a vast plain ringed
by Kaf, a gigantic rampart of mountains.
Behind this barricade dwell the notorious
tribes of Gog and Magog—Jews of dwarfish
stature but with the same urge to over-run the
earth as their full-grown brothers. Night
after night the industrious Israelites toil to
surmount the mountain barrier, but just
when they are on the point of succeeding the
HE DIDN’T HALF KNOW.
PARSON: “Ah, Mrs. Brown, that's what I like to see—cleanliness; it's next to godliness,
you know!”
MOTHER OF EIGHT: “It’s worse than that, sir. With kids like mine, it's next to
impossible.”
ship of the Sun, towed by 360 angels, heaves
up above the horizon and blasts them back
again, the breaches made in the wall being
miraculously repaired during the daytime.
Some day, however, Dajjal, the , Antichrist,
will arise and lead the Hebrews over the
ramparts to the conquest of the world. After
a period of anarchy, Antichrist will be over-
come by Christ, Asrafel will blow the last
trump, and everybody will perish, the good
Moslems to revive in the heaven of Allah,
the infidels in a place somewhat less delect-
able. This fairy tale has more political sig-
nificance than appears on the surface. In
many Mohammedan uprisings the local leader
has figured as the Messiah, while the British
Empire, the French Government or other
hated authority has been cast for the role
of Antichrist.
* * * *
“S.T.S.” : A bit of S. Aus. slang lias found
its way into the law courts. In the time of
the Premier who is now Agent-General a
self-propelled car was put on railway lines
that couldn’t maintain an ordinary train,
and proved popular and economical. Its
warning signal being a hoarse bellow, it be-
came known at once as “Barwell’s bull”;
and by this name Judge Parsons and Crown-
Solicitor Hannam have now recognised it
in the Supreme Court.
!>! * * *
“T P.”: We Cornish revel in Oswald
Pryor’s drawings for their absolute fidelity;
r.fi., the .Cornish pasty in “The Ignorance of
Thomas John” (B. 13/11/’29). I saw liun-
whereupon the bright journalist suggested
that it might have been au earthquake. The
cable chief gratefully accepted the sugges-
tion. In those days there were no seismo-
graphs to contradict him.
* * * *
“F.S.”: There is one man in Melbourne
who knows all about the commercial possi-
bilities of the log bungalow. Long ago
artist C. W. Earle conceived the idea of
dreds of these on the
old Jim Crow dig-
gings, now Daylesford.
But as regards con-
tents the pasty of to-
day isn’t the old-time
Cornish article, which
contained little, if any,
meat, the same being
too scarce for extrava-
gant use. Vegetables
of any kind, chopped
apples, any bits of
food handy, and pil-
chards, if fishing had
been good, were the
mainstay. Perhaps a
bit of bacon gave a
meaty flavor to the
whole. When we
came overseas to lead the world in gold-
digging the abundance of beef and mutton
soon had its effect on the national dish.
* * * *
“Chev” : One of the candidates in the Vic.
elections used an aeroplane to convey his
opinions of his opponent to the constituents.
As the dav was windy and the electorate is
one of the hilliest around Melbourne the
innovation wasn't conspicuously successful.
Most of the leaflets landed in the gum-
trees: some apparently hit a post office, as
recipients found them in their boxes next
morning. # „ *
“C.Q.” : The announcement that an earth-
quake has broken several Trans-Atlantic
cables reminds me of an occasion when a
total interruption of the Maoriland cables
was similarly accounted for in the Austra-
lian press. One of the two cables linking
Australia with the Shaky Isles ceased to
function. Rather than incur the expense of
bringing a repairing ship all the way from
Singapore the company concerned omitted to
mention the interruption, the remaining
cable being adequate to carry the traffic.
Many months later, however, that link also
parted and further concealment was impos-
sible, so the interruption to both cables was
given to the world simultaneously. A spry
Sydney reporter rang up the superintendent
and asked the cause of the phenomenon. The
superintendent was at a loss for an answer;
building a house which would not be a blot
on the rustic landscape of Olinda Vale.
Ho bought a section of hardwood forest, and,
with the aid of a jinkcr and an eight-horse
team, his own right arm and two hardy
bushmen, proceeded to put his dream into
execution. It took him seven years and over
200 logs to do it. The result was one of the
handsomest bits of architecture in the moun-
tains, but one which is not likely to have
many imitators. Earle had to let the
logs season in sitii , and it was not until
10 years had elapsed that he was able to till
in the crevices with concrete. In the mean-
time he lived in a. tiny studio in the back
promises.
# * * *
“Alwyn”: George 111. made sea-bathing
fashionable in England because his doctors
ordered him a daily dip. IJp till then there
had been swimmers in the open, mostly on
the western coast; the waters of the Channel
presented few attractions until Royalty led
the way. Royal patronage made Weymouth,
previously a little fishing-village, a fashion-
able resort. Following the King’s, example,
ladies and gentlemen journeyed to seaside
places, as previously they had gone to Bath,
Harrogate and other spas. But there were
no backless bathing costumes in 1770. There
were not even V’s, and according to con-
temporary records, Majesty itself bathed in
the sea without a stitch on. Of course, the
men bathed in one spot and the women in
another, a custom that lasted for over a
century.
* * J|: *
“Erua” : Even Rotarians can be frivolous,
but it is at their peril. One of the queries
on the card which visiting Rotarians sign
at the Wellington (M.U.) Club is “Is your
wife with you?” The other week the authori-
ties w-ere perturbed to discover a reply which
ran, “No fear!” The offender was fined a
shilling as a warning against unbecoming
levity.
% !|: *
“Piriti”: Many a man, when asked to
nominate liis calling on enlistment for the
war, chose whatever came into his head at
the moment. A remittance man in my
battalion selected “chemist,” although his
experiences in that line were practically
limited to the chemical effects of mixed
drinks on the human constitution _ and the
beneficent uses of bromides. Yet it proved
a happy selection, for the Army took a good
deal for granted. When Fritz began send-
ing over poison gas all the chemists were
sent to a gas school and came back as gas
officers. Our friend took the course and
returned to the Batt., three days late and
very drunk, in a private’s uniform, but
with his commission in liis pocket. As it
happened he made an excellent officer, until
he was killed in a particularly daring raid.
a? sh # *
“Skyrider” : The conversation had switched
on to the eternal feminine. “What’s your
opinion of the modern girl, Dad?” somebody
asked the whiskered veteran in the corner
of the compartment. He put down hi.s paper
and glared at the questioner. “I haven’t any
opinions that way,” he -snapped. “There’s
nothing of the gay Lutheran about me.”
* * Hs
“Vaulx”: What a lot of considerations
affect votes apart from policies and party
ties! Our little township was full of excite-
ment when a local lad formally announced
liis candidature for the Assembly seat. He
w-as an old schoolmate of mine, and I started
to do a little unofficial canvassing. “I hope
you’ll vote for him,” I said to the grocer’s
wife. “Well.” was the non-committal reply
as she weighed out my sugar, “I ’aven’t
anythink against ’im. What’s worrying me
is if I vote for ’im and ’e gets in there’ll
be no ’olding ’er.” The female thus desig-
nated was, of course, the candidate’s wife.
AFTER THE MATCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“If you ’ad ’opped right into ’em, straight
from the flamin’ jump,”
’E said to us w’en we came off, knocked
up an’ sore an’ blu.e,
“If you ’ad only used yer weight! You give
a man the ’ump.
A team o’ schoolboys out for fun ’d play
as good as you.
“The captain should ’ave used ’is ’ead an’
changed the bloomin’ wings;
The forwards ought ’ave spread wide out
an’ took their passes neat;
The ’alf-backs might ’ave bunched a bit —it
would ’ave altered things.
The centre could ’ave roamed around to
run ’em off their feet.”
Well, ’e can talk. But, I dunno—’e wasn’t
in the game.
’E didn’t see the other olokes ’ad far more
pace an’ sense.
’E didn’t see they ’opped in first. But, still,
it’s all the same —
The best men in a flamin’ match are coves
upon the fence.
VICTORIA.
P. T. FINDLAY.


'*
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Asnociation and no deduction made from policy or bonuses.
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. 0. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD.
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost evciy contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men t; integrity.
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
GEO. RRUCE SMITH, General Manager.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according, to the sue. assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Show Boat”
Criterion “Lombardi, Ltd.”
Palace (com. Saturday) “Kola Nidri”
Statb Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
K° YAL “Hold Everything”
New Comedy “Brewster’s Millions”
King’s “Clowns in Clover”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
The first notable result of the arrival of
summer in Brisbane was the appearance at
the Royal of Nellie Brantley and her sup-
porters in South Sea island garb, the offering
being “Aloma of the Southern Seas.”
Apparently the company enjoyed the negative
apparel. Anyway, it is now billed to appear
in “A Pair of Silk Stockings.”
* * *
In Sydney Turret’s current show the beau-
tifully-printed programme is great value for
sixpence. But the play, “The Silver Cord,”
is a dreary artificiality, as obvious as a hit
on the ear, as dull as gout and as boring
as a bad two-bob. If there is anything in
drama further removed from creative effort
than the last act, wherein one woman blasts
a broadside of futile morality at another
woman and has a ditto of ditto blasted back
at her, with similar alternate reblasts ad
infinitum, this showman will read the com-
plete works of John Ruskin on his head,
having first given himself indigestion by
eating his trousers.
The thought rises that these amateur
dramatic parties deserve this Page’s en-
couragement. They do. The Turret society
in particular has done a great deal towards
keeping the drama alive in Sydney. But
it was a preponderance in commercial
theatres of such piffle as “The Silver Cord”
that left the dramatic field in Australia
almost entirely to amateurs. To encourage
this sort of thing would, then, be a poor ser-
vice. The play has five leading characters, all
Commonplace. Its plot is about as dramatic
as a lawnmower. It has a good theme,
mother foolishness, ruined by clumsy crafts-
manship. There is no illusion of reality
whatever. Some theatrical fireworks in the
second act and flashes of smartness in dia-
logue is the full compensation for sitting
erect until 11.30. The only part that gets
any character from the playwright is that of
the mother, and it is a caricature. One of
NAOMI WATERS, ivho acts admirably in Sydney Turret’s
current offering. ( Photo., Falk.)
two sons, having married a woman scientist
abroad, brings the lady home. The mother,
with incredible selfishness and by methods
as crude as they are improbable, sets herself
to win her man-son back to her strings. Her
other son is engaged to be married, and the
mother sets herself simultaneously to win him
back also. The men go to her with scarcely
a kick, though one of them is reputedly
intellectual and in love with his wife, due
shortly to bear him a child. Unquestionably
things like this can happen to meet a play-
wright’s convenience. They can even happen
in life. The only place where they cannot
happen is in art. Art does not admit the
extraordinary, or the Daily Blurb would
represent its apex. It deals only in what
has full credibility. It is essentially logical,
and the logic of “The Silver Cord” is that
two young men can be both lusty and sexu-
ally indifferent. Phenomena are not art. A
blue moon is the complete example of the
inartistic.
Three good actors struggled with this
futility. Alathea Siddons was consistently
true to the playwright as the mother, and
Richard Parry was similarly good as the
married son. In the second act Naomi
Waters was not more than an inch short of
brilliant. She gave life and meaning to her
part. She is young and good-looking, and
can act. The playwright was unkind to
Doris Fitton and Ronald Grieve. Both re-
turned the compliment. The voice of the
prompter was conspicuously wnheard through-
out. Producing and setting were good.
Since the performance last Thursday there
has been trouble at the Turret—an internal
squabble, which has resulted in sundry
leading lights resigning. The Bulletin did
not witness the clash and feels hurt. The
comedy 'might have compensated for the
dreary “Cord.”
* * *
The exhibition of Californian millionaires
drew large crowds to the Malolo at Port
Melbourne last week. From the spectacular
point of view the Matson liner was a dis-
appointment after the ornate leviathan of
English manufacture 1 which brought a lading
of 400 Americans to Australia a few
years ago. The Malolo is simple to the
point of austerity. Even the marble bath
does not go one better than that of the
late Emperor Hadrian, and the smoke-room
is just a smoke-room instead of being a
cross between a Spanish monastery and the
State Theatre. When the he-men of the
Malolo sit up to the small hours they swap
/Esop’s fables, one imagines, as being most
in keeping with the sort of drink the ship is
obliged to serve them. And, presumably, the
Malolo variant of that kindly deity the
smoke-room steward is one who warns a too-
bibulous customer that this is his tenth ice-
cream soda, and what about the gentleman’s
digestion. The present writer’s pleasantest
recollections of sea voyages are connected
with smoke-rooms, and he fled from the
Malolo’s in horror.
Another discovery was that American
millionairesses, or their daughters, are prac-
tically indistinguishable from Melbourne
flappers. a tribute,
no doubt, to the
uplifting influence
of the movies. One
on the visitors just
returned from view-
ing the continent,
was observed in
her state - room
washing her silk
stockings in a
basin, probably
under a notice
strictly forbidding
the practice. This
is another sad
example of the fact
that human nature
is the same the
world over, and is
getting more so.
* * *
Despite the better
advertised physical
charms and his-
trionic graces of
the gentlemen who
sit at the Wur-
litzers or wield the
batons on the
ascending platforms
at the movie serag-
lios, Fritz Hart
continues to be a
favored star among
orchestral conduc-
tors in Melbourne.
The “House Full”
notice was out long
before the tail of
his admirers was
able to wriggle
into the Town Hall
for his final or
semi-final concert
of the winter sea-
son. The pro-
gramme had been
decided by popular
vote and was composed of the “Mid-
summer Night’s Dream” overture of Men-
delssohn. Schubert’s “Unfinished,” the
Schumann concerto, op. 54, the Pre-
lude to “Lohengrin” and the Hungarian
Rhapsody No. 2 of Liszt, all very fami-
liar stuff but none the worse for that. To
give body and substance to the evening the C
minor string quartette of Beethoven was
thrown in. The last-named work served to
introduce a new organisation, composed of
’cellist Sisserman, Gregory Ivanoff, Reg Brad-
ley and Mischa Kogan; and very beautifully
they played, though their location in the
centre of the chamber did not bring out the
full volume of their instruments. The beauti-
ful Schubert fragment was reverently
handled by the orchestra, the fact that they
had handled it frequently before making the
performance seem less like a public rehearsal
than it has been on previous occasions. The
concerts are to be continued into the summer,
the city fathers having agreed to overlook
the matter of rent. This will relieve Senator
Elliott, H. E. Spry and W. M. Stewart, the
three patriotic citizens, who have been “guar-
antee i n g” the
series, from anxiety
during the period
when mixed bath-
ing in the moon-
light begins to exer-
cise its fascina-
tions even on the
most hardened sym-
phony - concert
addict.
* * *
“Henry VIII.,”
with which Allan
Wilkie began his
Shakspearean sea-
son at Newtown
Majestic on Satur-
day, was staged
with alternating-
simplicity and ela-
borateness. Clad
in the scarlet robe
of the Cardinal,
Wilkie dominated
the stage until his
forced retirement.
His rendering of
the defeated eccle-
siastic’s swan song
was a particularly
fine piece of acting
—the best thing in
a good perfor-
mance. Alexander
Marsh’s Duke of
Buckingham had
rare restraint, and
Marsh doubled suc-
cessfully in the
role of the ancient
Griffith. As the
broken-hearted but
still proud Queen
Katharine Miss
Hunter - Watts
strengthened her
reputation as a
Shakspearean act-
ress. In the Blackfriars scene she
caught the right note of defiance to
Wolsey, and she was also effective in her
later appearances. Most of the others gave
tradesmenlike performances, but the need of
more training and a better understanding of
the part was evident in the acting of Mildred
Howard as Anne Boleyn, and at>times Hilda
Scurr almost forgot that she was supposed
to be an elderly dame.
* # *
Both Sydney St. James and Prince Edward
made changes greatly for the better last
week, each with a musicomedy talkie. St.
James has “Show Boat,” which has the
breadth of the novel from which it and the
legit, version were drawn. Included in the
support is that rarity, a first-class “short,”
the talkie-comedy “When Csesar Ran a
Newspaper.” It is an uproarious burlesque.
Prince Edward’s main item also has abun-
dant humor—the Two Black Crows carrying
on their absurd conversations. The support,
too, is considerably stronger than some this
theatre has had lately. “Nothing but the
Truth” (State), “My Man” (Ilaymarket),
“Four Devils” (Regent) and “Three Live
Ghosts” (Lyceum) are the other new pic-
tures of the week.
# * *
The Frank O’Brianites are in their sixth
week at Sydney Fullers, and the show gener-
ally retains a distinctive flavor of otherwise-
ness. O’Brian appears in a new role as
a red-headed Cupid, which might account for
the modern prevalence of old maids.
* * *
Ernie Lotinga continues to be Jimmy
Josser at Melbourne Tivoli. This week he is
appearing in “Khaki,” but the sartorial
change in the title is the only difference.
How the members of the company remember
which play they are performing is a mys-
tery. Harold Wilkinson is still the huskily
villainous guardian of the shrinking heroine,
Kathleen Barbor, whose eventual reunion
with the elocutionary hero is only a matter
of 70 minutes; and the business of show-
ing up the mental vacuity of the German
high command remains in the hands of Law-
rence Lawrence. The piece is more amusing
than hilarious, though the card-playing scene
between Lotinga and Private Avieson Plata,
of the German army, comes under the latter
category.
* * ¥
If conversations now in train materialise
the Williamson-Neil alliance will become
closer than ever. One consequence will prob-
ably be more unemployment among Poverty
Pointers, though some Australians are to get
portfolios hitherto held by importations,
The “Whoopee” company, now at Mel-
bourne King’s, is to be disbanded, and that
champagne piece will be handed over to the
band now warbling “The Desert Song” in
Adelaide. In the new company Dan Nichols,
Australian- comedian, will take the place of
the American , Sylber, and Lilian Crisp,
Leo Darnton and Bernard Manning will be
included. “Clowns in Clover” will succeed
“Whoopee” in Melbourne. To compensate
for the absence of a panto., certain acts,
supposedly for adult consumption only, will
MADGE AUBREY, with “The Show Boat” at Sydney Majesty’s.
be excised from the afternoon performances,
and others of an allegedly more juvenile
flavor substituted. Long experience, how-
ever, has convinced this Showman that the
sophisticated modern youth is as accustomed
to ginger with his theatrical dishes as his
parent. When “Clowns in Clover” has
exhausted its mandate, “So This Is Love” will
endeavor to excite the jaded palates of the
musicomedy-loving multitude. Frank Neil’s
Comedians are at present “resting,” but
more will be heard of Field Fisher and fel-
low-conspirators. Now that its serious com-
petitors have either been absorbed or gone
over to the talkies, the Firm has decided
that the time is ripe to bring up the
question of salary reductions. Actors retort
that the cost of living is as high as ever
it was, if not higher, and that boarding-
house keepers are no more given: to philan-
thropy than ever they were.
* * *
Adelaide has had “The Desert Song” at
last with a bright new co. Leo Darnton
gives a fine show in the lead. In a double
rendering one generally has to shut the eye
to identities, but here the harmless hero
and the deadly one have no touch in com-
mon. Lilian Crisp’s light voice goes well
with his. and she is Slieikked with the cor-
rect terrified delight. Don Nicol is a bit
reckless as to how he gets his laughs—but
he gets them. In a welter of minor charac-
ters the most impressive are Bernard Man-
ning as an Arab, John Byrne as the hero’s
father and Laurel Streeter as a kind of
Tondelayo moved a bit further north.
What the ads. call “an epoch-making event
in the History of Jewry” in Australia breaks
out at Sydney Palace on Saturday, when a
Jewish opera company stages “Kol Nidri.”
Next Wednesday the piece wall be replaced
by “Bar Cochba.”
Melbourne Bijou still shows a closed and
shuttered front to the passer-by in Bourke-
street, despite a recent rumor that it would
open on Saturdav afternoons and evenings.
* #
The disappearance of William Cosgrove
and his South African company from Mel-
bourne Playhouse almost before the season
opened adds another to the abortive efforts to
revive interest in the flesh-and-blood drama.
Some day entrepreneurs will realise that what
the public doesn’t get at the cinema parlors
is hopeless mediocrity. The most remarkable
thing about the Cosgrove season was the
presence of Lady Stonehaven and party at
the opening evening.


{£»•}&•. : v
gSi; •?■.%. v£
‘lntroducing
DOVER
A New Commercial Car Made in the Same Factory
as the Greater HUDSON and ESSEX the Challenger
Commercial consort of the
Greater Hudson and Essex the
Challenger, the Dover matches these
two fine passenger cars in quality, re-
liability and sterling performance.
Powered with the sturdy Essex engine,
noted for its economy and power, the
Dover introduces a new standard of
low-cost delivery efficiency plus truly
modern beauty and style for an
amazingly small outlay.
Heavy duty roller bearings are used in
all wheels and axles. Steering is smooth
and effortless. The special bridge-type
frame, reinforced with five rigid cross
members, assures sturdy, rugged sup-
port for the full rated load. Special
alloy-steel springs of heavy duty design
effect easy riding and full suspension to
the loaded body. Body styles to meet
every tradesman’s requirements#
Write to your nearest Hudson-Essex Dealer
for full particulars of the brilliant Dover,
HUDSON MOTOR CAR CO.
DETROIT, MICHIGAN.
DOVER
The Commercial Super Six


R°NEL°
DIARY
FOR 1930
Now Ready,
Has
a Page
for
Every Day
Cloth
Bound, Gold
Lettered.
Size, 91 x
IDEAL
XMAS
GIFT
Price 10/-
Post, 1/- extra.
mm
k- '
m
■
RONEO CO. Ltd., 21 Hunter St., Sydney.
ASSURED POSITIONS. BETTER
MONEY.
t
Men of ability and average education Avho wish to get out of the rut and enter
a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to send for
our Prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equal to the
demand. NOW is the time to begin.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereaeh Street, Sydney.
Head Office
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Office: 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Life, Endowment, Children’s Endowment, Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Personal Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and for cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company’s offices.
FREDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
INSURE WITH THE
STo
Mercantile Mutual
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Company—
Established 1878.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Tooth and Co.
, Dividends
Net Ord. Pref. To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. (9 p.c.) (6 p.c.) serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1919.. 145,007 111,374 33,000 633 175,218
(94 p.c.) (7 p.c.)
1920.. 159,189 117,562 38,500 3,127 178,345
Castlemaine and Wood Bros. (Newcastle)
taken over.
(10 p.c.) (9 p.c.)
1921.. 213,949 160,215 49,500 4,234 182,579
(10 p.c.)
1922.. 235,175 169,167 55,000 11,008 193,587
1923.. 293,373 170,000 55,000 68,373 261,960
1924.. 311,706 171,718 55,000 84,988 346,948
1925.. 367,650 277,647 953 89,050 435,998
1926.. 440,229 310,602 196 129.431 565,429
Assets written up, £736,975 .. 1,302,404
Reserves capitalised, £776,975 .. 525,429
(ni p.c.)
1927. . 509,085 398,206 3 110,876 636,305
(12* p.c.)
1928.. 590,134 485,622 104,512 740,817
Assets written up, £485,622, and that
amount capitalised .. .. 740,817
1929.. 634,054 539,860 94,194 835,011
This Sydney brewery co. further tightened
its hold upon the trade by the purchase of
Resch’s business as from July 1 last: thus
more than nine-tenths of the trade of N. S.
Wales is now in the hands of two brewing
organisations, Tooths and Toohcys. At the
same time the board scattered £485,622 of
bonus scrip, one for eight. The gift was
provided by taking that amount from undis-
closed reserves covered up by the big blanket
tagged “Breweries, plant and machinery,
rolling-stock and freehold properties, less
depreciation.” No less than £1,222,597 of
bonus scrip has been provided for in this
way in a little over two years.
The price paid for the Resell business, and
the terms on which the deal went through,
have not been divulged. Resch’s was a
family concern which did not publish its
accounts. Immediately prior to the merger
it had a paid capital of £750,000, of which
£736,466 was held by Edmund and Arnold
Resell .in equal proportions. Altogether
£1,735,623 was added to Tooth’s capital
during the year, making it £5,620,593 at
Sept. 30. So, apparently, scrip with a face
value of £1,250,000 was issued in exchange
for Resch’s assets. It is not possible to say
from the published figures what amount was
paid for goodwill, which is not given any
value in the books. The probabilities are
that the scrip issued in connection with the
purchase was put out at a premium suffi-
cient to cover the goodwill item, thus enabling
it to be written out of the accounts; before
the market sniffed out the fact that merger
negotiations were afoot, it had priced Tooth’s
pound shares at 50s. or thereabouts. If the
amount of the premium exceeded the price
paid for goodwill, then the tangible assets
have been written down to the extent of
the difference.
Though the new assets were at work for
only the last three months of the term, there
was an encouraging spring of £43,920 in the
admitted net earnings, which were £94,194
in excess of the 12| p.c. dividend charge.
However, on capital as it now stands a 32-J
p.c. div. will call for £702,575, or £68,521
more net profit than was shown last year.
Still, there is no suggestion that the div. is
likely to be interfered with. Indeed, the
task of maintaining the present rate may
not be nearly as difficult as it looks; the fine
string of hotel properties just taken over can
be expected to greatly swell earnings, and
there should be substantial savings in over-
head, especially if the Waverley Brewery
(Resch’s) is closed down.
A notable feature of the accounts is that
last year’s gross profits were 2.2 times
greater than they were nine years ago, while
the net profits were no less than 3.9
times greater. Here is a detailed view of
the quick development of the business of
recent years, as p. and 1. figures reflect it: —•
Profit on Management, Exes.
Brewings, Wages, p.c. Balance
Interest, etc. Excise, etc. Gross. of Profit.
1915.. £652,360 £367,566 56.3 £284,794
1920.. 670,783 499,594 . 74.4 171,189
1923.. 905,468 612,005 67.6 293,373
1924.. 955,987 644,281 67.4 311,706
1925.. 862,934 495,284 57.4 367,650
1926.. 1,032,200 591,971 57.3 440,229
1927.. 1,284,738 775,653 60.3 509,085
1928.. 1,387,934 797,800 57.3 590,134
1929.. 1,482,345 848,291 57.2 634,054
Gross profits are those remaining after pro-
vision has been made for bad and doubtful
debts and depreciation; and the allowances
under these heads and for other contingen-
cies have been much in excess of actual
requirements in tlie past. For years the
co. has been buying and improving properties
out of revenue, and these and other pur-
chases, including the territories taken over
with Castlemaine and Wood Bros. (New-
castle) in 1920 and Mahon (Wagga) and
Lincoln (Narrandera) in 1924, yielding
fine harvests.
The year’s activities and the co.’s great
strength again show up in balance-sheet
figures, a comparison of which follows:
1925. 1928. 1929.
Assets —
Breweries, etc... £2,426,241 £2,936,201 £4,590,426
Book debts .. 1,172,258 1,480,504 1,734,165
Stock . . .. 409,451 464,077 577,290
Liquid .. .. 182,522 567,763 544,506
£4,190,472 £5,448,545 £7,446,387
Liabilities.. .. 424,740 499,231 613,370
Net assets .. £3,765,732 £4,949,314 £6,833,017
The writing up accounts for only £485,622
of the £1,654,225 by which the book value
of fixed assets increased during the year;
the other £1,168,603, or most of it, was the
figure at which the fixed assets taken over
from Rescli’s appeared in the books at Sept.
30. The £253.661 growth of book debts,
making the total increase £561,907 over the
last four years, looks promising for future
earnings, because it surely indicates a much
wider turnover. The more or less liquid
surplus (£2,242,591. including stocks and
book debts) was £229,478 stronger than at
the previous balance.
General-manager Cleary, who has been in
control for the last five years, has taken over
the Chief Railway Commissioner’s job in
N. S. Wales. His successor, T. Watson, who
comes from inside the co.’s service, will in-
herit a highly-efficient organisation. With
the trade in so few hands he should not find
it an exceedingly difficult job to maintain
good profits under almost any conditions.
Immediately prior to the bonus issue 655.
6d. was paid for the scrip, equal to 58s. 2d.
after exercising the rights; but the heavily
overbought market quickly dropped to 555.,
and recently eased to 475. 6d. After allow-
ing for the final div. the return at the cur-
rent figure is 5.4 p.c. on a 124 p.c. div.
basis. The visible backing amounts to only
235. per share in net tangibles.
Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co.
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. deserves.
Sept., £ £ £ £
1919.. 215,203 6J p.c. = 80,575 85,325 847,896
Chemical works depreciation fund taken
in, apparently £197,192 .. ..1,045,088
1920. . 133,067 15 p.c. = 193,379 57,060 927,716
Additions to reserves, £166,876, ap-
parently mostly war-time tax pro-
visions .. ~ . . . . 1,094,591
1921. 104,880 Nil 53,050 1,146,421
New plant reserve, £84,094 taken in. . 1,230,515
1922. . 167,119 Nil 43,353 1,354,281
1923. . 237.131 10 p.e.= 128,919 70.412 1,392,081
Transferred to Superannuation Fund,
£22,000.. 1,370,081
1924. . 241,577 10 p.c.= 128,919 51,240 1,431,499
1925. 10 .. ~ 128,919 58.167 1,481,538
Written off mine property, £200,000. . 1,281,538
1926.. 220,487 ll£ p.c.=: 145,034 64,670 1,292,321
1927.. 246,359 Ilf „ ~ 145,034 53,583 1,340,063
1928.. 261,516 111 ~,,145,034 61,938 1,394,607
1929.. 435,752 13f „ ~177,265 111,624 1,541,470
The leap of £174,286 in last year’s profit
was due mainly to the rise in the price of
copper—electrolytic averaged £B3 Is. 4d. as
against £67 in the previous term —bigger
production, and large savings in costs follow-
ing the completion of the North Lyell tunnel
and the new electrolytic refinery at Queens-
town. The co.’s extensive chemical (super.)
interests also contributed substantially to
the pool. The year’s sale of blister, divs.,
etc., turned in £865,997, or £170,143 moro
than in the previous year. Mining costs
(£377,052) were actually £21,129 lighter,
but other charges (£53,193) were up £17.510,
owing to a larger bill from the tax-gatherer.
So, after allowing £46,048 for prospecting
and £65,576 for depreciation, shown as
written off in the table, the year’s net result
(£324,128) sprang £124,077, reaching 25.1
p.c. on the £1,289,195 of paid capital com-
pared with 15.4. 14.9, 12.1 and 13.8 p.c.
back to 1925. Divs. shown in the table are
those actually paid during the period covered
by the accounts. In June Is. 3d. per share
was distributed; and those on the register
will get another 2s. 9d., including lsl 6d.
bonus, on Dec. 18, thus lifting the rate to
20 p.c. p.a.
The North Lyell tunnel (total length
6952 ft.) was completed on Sept. 4, 1928.
It directly connects the North mine with the
treatment works at Queenstown by electric
tramway, thus dispensing with the costly old
haulage' system, and enabling a bigger output
of crudes to be handled. The refinery, which
has a capacity of 8000 tons copper per
annum, began work on April 30, 1925. Last
vear its output was 7644 tons cathode copper
and 103 tons of silver slimes, with 60 tons
of bluestone as a by-product. Previously
Lyell’s outturn of blister was shipped to Port
Kembla for treatment by the Electrolytic
Refining and Smelting Co. A couple of
years ago the board figured that the total
cost of the tunnel and refinery (estimated
at £60,000 and £75,000 respectively) would
be redeemed by savings in working costs
inside of four years. On that basis the
annual saving would be over £33,000, or
more than £4 per ton of copper produced.
Last year £24,464 more was written off; than
was spent on the refinery, reducing its book
value to £70,823, and £lO,OOO was struck
off the cost of the tunnel, reducing it to
£30,310.
During the 12-month an extra 30,271 tons
crudes, making 156,840 tons in all, were
raised from the North mine, but since most
of the increase came from the lower grade
stopes the average copper content dropped
from 5.85 p.c. to 5.16 p.c. Development
work in the reopened Lyell Comstock mine
produced a further 16,322 tons ore assaying
only 2.7 p.c. copper, thus further reducing
tlie general average. Here are aggregate pro-
duction and recovery figures :
1923. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Ore mined (tons) 133,680 123,772 126,569 173,162
Blister produced
(tons) .. . . 5,478 6,925 7,126 7,869
Contents:—
Copper (tons) .. 5,430 6,860 7,060 7,803
Silver (oz.) . . 109,812 133,338 121,456 125,687
Gold (oz.) .. 1,808 2,211 2,360 2,462
Proceeds from pro-
ducts (inc. chemi-
cals, etc.) . . £(545,292 608,821 637,805 ?
The capacity of the concentrating plant was
increased by 75 p.c. mainly due to extensions
at the fine-grinding section, and 168,334 tons
of feed was put through for 34,160 tons of
better grade concentrates —21.4 p.c. copper as
against 20 p.c. for the year before —but
the recovery dropped from 04.2 p.c. to 92.9
p.c. The 40,181 tons of metal-bearing
materials smelted during the year yielded
the results shown in the table; the whole of
the blister being cast into anodes for treat-
ment in the refinery. . The retrcatment of
tailings has yielded a pyritic concentrate,
now used as flux in the furnace instead of
the Mt. Lyell pyrites.
Ore reserves have been recalculated, and
at Sept. 30 stood as follows:
Copper, Silver, Gold,
Tons. p.c. oz. oz.
North Lyell . . 1,013,672 5.25 1.0 0.015
Lyell Comstock.. 600,000 3.25 0.25 0.03
There is a further large body of 2\ p.c.
copper ore in the Royal and South Tharsis
mines between the 400 ft. and 3100 ft. levels,
which can probably be treated at a profit
with the metal around its present figure.
Toward the close of accounts the co.
merged its chemical interests in Vie. with
those of Cumiug Smith and Co., Wisclier and
Co., and Nobel (Australasia) Pty., and
worth-while savings in overhead and other
costs are expected to follow. The new con-
cern, Commonwealth Fertilisers and Chemi-
cals, Ltd., paid £880,186 in 283,931 7 p.c.
cum. prefs. and 596,255 ords. for Lyell’s
assets. This and other deals added £1,148,464
to the book value of shares in other cos.,
which figured in the accounts at £215,245
below face value at Sept. 30:—
1926. 1928. 1929.
Chemical works .. £560,067 £761,338* —•
Shares in other cos. 107,777 234,444 £1,382,908
Hydro-electric plant 83,116 78,162 78,557
*lncludes interest Mt. Lyell Farmers’ Fertilisers, Ltd.
The co. sold part of its holding in Australian
Fertilisers, Ltd., which has works at Port
Kembla and interests in Queensland, to Elec-
trolytic Zinc. Obviously it increased other
holdings, possibly in Cuming Smith and Mt.
Lyell Farmers’ Fertilisers (W.A.), which
is putting up new works at Geraldtou and
Bunbury.
The sale of the chemical works is again
visible in a marked shrinkage in book debts
and stocks:—
IQOK 1097 IQ9Q IQ9Q
Metals £212,555 £158,014 £287,151 £280,799
Book debts 240,486 327,107 402,713 52,335
Stocks, etc. 391,269 331,373 353,114 137,579
Cash, etc... 266,685 179,967 11,435
£1,110,986 £996,461 £1,042,978 £482,148
Liabilities 160,625 206,259 401,523 61,539
Surplus £950,361 £790,202 £641,455 £420,609
I-low copper prices will behave the “Wild
Cat” cannot say. The producers are strongly
organised, but the recent falling off in
American demand and the increasing use of
substitutes for the metal suggest that prices!
are more likely to ease than strengthen in
the immediate future. The sharemarket ex-
presses its doubt by paying now no more than
425., or thereabouts, for the pound shares ;
and after allowing for the final div. and bonus
the return at that figure is more than 10 p.c.
on a 20 p.c. div. basis.
Clifford Love and Co., Ltd. (Sydney).
Net To Nominal
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1922.. 19,646 10 p.c. = 12,861 6,785 28,123
Premium on shares . . 10,000 38,123
1923.. 18,501 10 p.c. = 16,911 1,590 39,713
1924.. 23,762 10 „ „ 16,911 6,851 46,564
1925.. 28,100 124 „ „ 21,138 6,962 53,526
1926.. 28,989 12) „ „ 21.138 7,851 61.377
1927.. 25,757 124 „ „ 22,896 5,861 67,238
1928.. 32,337 12),, „ 25,599 6,738 73,976
1929.. 32,958 12),, „ 26,423 6,535 80,511
This co., which is in the dry-goods trade,
turns out several well-established proprietary
lines. For over half a century it was a
family concern ; the public became interested
in 1922, when' the Brown and Poison busi-
ness was absorbed and the scrip listed. Since
then there has been a steady growth in turn-
over, additions have had to be made to pre-
mises and plant, and stocks increased. To
finance these extensions shareholders have
been called upon for £82,777 during the last
seven years, making paid capital £211,383 at
Sept. 30. Meantime the div. has been lifted
from 10 p.c. to 121 p.e., and comfortable
margins remain for reserves, which are de-
scribed as nominal in the table because they
are subject to £72,500 of goodwill.
Last year prices for some of the co.’s raw
materials eased, and, though trade generally
was on the quiet side, there was a steady
demand for groceries and foodstuffs. Never-
theless, after setting aside £lO,OOO for taxa-
tion and £lOOO for doubtful debts, the
accounts claimed as profit only £621 more
than for the previous term, when .a lot of
money was represented by premises that were
not bringing in any return. The £32,958
netted was 15.5 p.c. on average capital com-
pared with 15.4, 15.6, 17.1 and 16.6 p.c.
back to 1925. But the full measure of the
year’s net earnings may be, probably is,
better than those ratios indicate. In addi-
tion to the lay-by .shown in the table there
is a reserve for contingencies, depreciation,
etc. (£97,291. up £lO,llB during the year),
and another for insurance (£5580) to which
£440 was added, and some or all of these
amounts may be true profit. If they are
all profit, then the year’s net result was
20.5 p.c. on capital as against 19.4, 18.3,
27.7 and 31 p.c. for the four preceding years.
The new premises were completed a little
over a year ago, and for the past 12 months
there has been a healthy movement in trad-
ing figures, and a strengthening of the
finances, as this comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows:—
1922. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital .. .. £128,607 £211,383 £211,383
Mortgages and overdraft 47,027 31,074 16,647
Trading- debts . . . . 17,351 18,624 22,452
Properties .. . . 66,265 140,286 143,817
Machinery, plant, etc... 59,541 118,779 125,006
Stocks 43,3 4 7 8 0,62 5 62,726
Book debts .. .. 32,540 30,530 34,402
Cash and sundries . . 5,285 8,752 21,267
Over the last two years £23,338 has been
added to the book value of freeholds, and
£11,417 to the plant account. During the
last term there was a growth of £3872 in
book debts, accompanied by a reduction of
£17.899 in stocks and an expansion of
£12,515 in cash, etc., balances. At the same
time £3828 more was coming to trade credi-
tors, but £14,427 was lopped off mortgages
and overdraft. The more or less liquid sur-
plus (£79,296, including stocks) was £9087
stronger than' at the close of accounts in
1928.
The scrip, which is well held, is one of
the few high-priced stocks which were little
affected by the recent depression in the
market. After allowing for the final div.
(Is. 6d.) the return at the current price
(40s. 6d.) is 6.4 p.c. on a p.c. div.
basis.. Including the depreciation and in-
surance reserves, together equal to 9s. 9d.
per share, the backing amounts to 17s. 4d. in
net tangibles.
Trustees, Executors and Agency Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1919. . 13,075 10 p.c. = 9,000 4075 69,222
Written off premises, £5OO .. 68,722
1920.. 14,564 12 p.c. = 10,800 3764 72.486
1921.. 14,352 12 „ ~ 10,800 3552 76,038
1922.. 14,921 12 „ „ 12,100 2821 78,859
1923.. 18,306 13 „ ~ 15,600 2706 81,565
1924.. 21,951 14 „ „ 16,800 5151 86.716
1925.. 24,388 14 „ „ 18,900 5488 92,204
1926.. 24,615 14 „ ~ 19,600 5015 97.219
1927.. 22,472 14 „ „ 19,600 2872 100,091
1928.. 26,693 14 „ „ 19,600 7093 107,184
1929.. 25,175 14 „ ~ 19,600 5575 112,759
The earnings of this Australia’s oldest trustee
co. got a nice lift when, in 1927, the N. S.
Wales Government gave the co. full trustee
powers in that Sta-te; a fine harvest of
business soon began to ripen, especially in the
Riverina. During the last two years the
net increase in the total volume of trusts
was £4,407,521, which it took seven years of
previous effort to equal.
The next comparison shows how the
volume of trusts handled has grown since the
beginning of this century:—
1900.. £6,300,000 1925.. £15,776,909
1905.. 7,787,043 1926.. 16,328,516
1910.. 9,013,807 1927.. 17,941,016
1915.. 10,936,858 1928.. 20,897,807
1920.. 13,533,081 1929.. 22,348,537
Last year £1,063,141 of capital funds and
assets were paid out to beneficiaries. On the
other hand £2,513,871 of new trust business
was put on the books. The net increase,
though very fine, was still not quite half the
previous year’s record leap; but, to atone
for that, the co. received more notifications
of its appointment under wills than ever
before. And there is still plenty of room
for further expansion. In Vic. only about
13 p.c. of the total number of estates and
about 20 p.c. of their aggregate value are
managed by the trustee cos.
Last year the co.’s trust earnings
(£66,996) brought in an extra £2835, and
the return from its -own funds (£10,451)
moved up £421. But exes. (£51,272) were
£4991 heavier, so, after sending £lOOO to
the provident fund and allowing for minor


r
. i
v
rV-
\\
V
/w
.'X
/
wt
u
r
Tests
TYRE-BUYING is simple if you keep these few things !n
mind :
First—a car tyre has just two main parts: tread and carcass.
Second —there are concrete reasons why Goodyear Tyres
are superior in both these two parts.
Third—these reasons can be demonstrated and proved.
1 Press your hand down on the Goodyear All-Weather
Tread. Feel the grip of the deep-cut sharp-edged blocks,
placed in the centre of the tread, where they belong.
That shows why the Goodyear Tread imprints its safe and
slipless pattern on the road, and why it has superior traction.
2 Ask your Goodyear Dealer to show you on his cord-testing
machine the greater stretch—up to in Goodyear
Supertwist Cord over ordinary cord.
This extra stretch gives the Goodyear Supertwist carcass
its unmatched vitality, enabling it to withstand road-shock
and continuous flexing without premature failure.
These advantages in Goodyear Tyres pay big dividends in
high mileage and low cost. Proof of their validity and that
they are popularly understood is found in the fact that
MORE PEOPLE, THE WORLD OVER, RID!& ON
GOODYEAR TYRES THAN ON ANY OTHER KIND.
jr
I


The Crash in
I New York
I I
Tens of thousands of Ameri-
cans have just been ruined
through not- knowing what
was ahead.
Tens of thousands of Aus-
tralians are risking heavy loss
in exactly the same way.
The “Wild Oat” Monthly
doesn’t know everything. But
it puts before you a tremendous
quantity of data from which
you can draw your own con-
clusions.
In these uncertain days
every investor—even though
it be only in a life insurance
policy—owes it to himself and
his family to keep himself
informed.
Let the Monthly help you.
NOVEMBER NUMBER
NOW ON SALE
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM,
22/6. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
For Sale.—ln the Estate of James Armstrong,
Deceased. Two Gold-mining Leases and Winding
Gear, situated County of Argyle, New South Wales ;
shaft down about 400 feet; much gold has been
won; owner recently deceased. Inspection invited.
For further particulars, apply by letter to C. A.
Armstrong, Executor, 26 Clanalpine Street, Mosman.
N.S.W. — Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagli
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
$-£ $ $
IDEAS.-—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coli.isoN & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
4= * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
* jjt
The remarkable durability of Pioneer Wood Pipe
is a most important factor to consider when a
projected pipe line is under discussion. Not only
does Pioneer Wood Pipe ensure longest effective
life for the pipe line, but it reduces initial cost,
cost of installation and maintenance costs —to the
absolute minimum. Non-corrosive, light, easy to
handle and adaptable to any fluid conveyance
scheme. Write for full particulars and illustrated
data book to The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd
Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. (near Fig-
tree Bridge) ; and at Footscrav, Victoria.— Advt
* * *
Boycotted Book. —“ The Pleasant Career of a
Spendthrift,” by George Meudell, can be obtained
from the author for 10/6 remitted by post to 135
William Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradieator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Mpree.— Advt.
* * #
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
The “Explosives” House
Explosives and Accessories of All Kinds
Supplied at Lowest Prices.
Manufacturers of
RENDROCK,
The Safest, Cheapest and Most Effective High Explosive Known.
Can be forwarded by Rail or Steamer at ordinary rates of freight.
Blasting Machines, Steel Rock Drills.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
7he Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Bafety f-usa
Detonators
Cartridges
ret
ADFIELDS
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadlields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and 1
Foundries i
Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W,
Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch
Office
( 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
J T. & G. Building, Brisbane,
adjustments, the net result was £l5lB short
of the previous year’s. Nevertheless it was
17.9 p.c. on capital compared with 19, 16,
17.5 and 18 p.c. back to 1925; hence the
14 p.c. div. continues an easy matter. At
the close of accounts the co.’s funds (capi-
tal and reserves combined) had to earn only
7.7 p.c. to pay a 14 p.c. div., whereas the
year’s profit was 10 p.c. on average funds.
And the position can be expected to improve
as the business expands.
The board thus far has never made a gift
issue; its policy is to get in fresh capital
as the business grows. In 1924 a one in
three par issue advanced capital to its
present figure. There are 160,000 shares
issued with a nominal value of £5 each;
but 50s. of that is callable only in the
event of liquidation. Of the remaining 50s.
only 10s. is paid on 100,000 shares, and
30s. on the other 60,000. The latter are
priced at 80s., and the 10s. paids at 345.
At those figures the immediate return is
5.2 p.c. and 4.1 p.c. respectively on a 14 p.c.
div. basis. Clearly the market considers
that it will not be long before holders of the
10s. paid are asked for more. If another 5.5.
is got in the return at the above price
and on the same div. basis would be approxi-
mately 5.4 p.c., and the div. would call for an
extra £3500.
United Distributors, Ltd.
The co. was caught with large stocks of
out-of-date radio equipment and no reserves.
The result was disastrous; and efforts are
now being made to dispose of the business
piecemeal with a view to saving the £24,982
of pref. capital. If the options granted for
the purchase of the assets are exercised,
pref. shareholders should get their capital
back in full, says accountant S. W. Spry,
who recently investigated the co.’s affairs.
Whether any of the £100,500 of ordinary
capital is likely to be rescued it is impos-
sible to say at the moment. All depends on
the realisation of stocks.
When the present co. amalgamated the
businesses of United Distributors in N. S.
Wales and Vic. five years ago paid capital
was only £25,500. It was immediately de-
cided to launch out on a large scale, so
fresh capital was got in, three or four other
businesses were bought, activities were ex-
tended to all the Australian States and
Maoriland, and special attention was given
to radio goods, including their manufacture.
For a while turnover stepped along briskly,
and the co. stocked up heavily; but the
market quickly became overcrowded, and
remained so. Competition sharpened, prices
were cut and the co. suffered badly in the
general scramble to get out of badly bought
lines.
This next comparison of p. and 1. figures
shows what happened during the last four
years:—
IQ9a 1Q97 IQOQ 1 QOQ
Gross profit .. £83,868 £81,035 £78,437 £18,959
Exes 72,114 78,294 82,125 90,349
Net profit ..£11,754 £2,741
Loss .. .. £3,688 £71,390
TtVelve months ago it was decided to get out
of the radio-accessories portion of the busi-
ness, which then represented over 60 p.c. of
tne co. s trade. It was mainly the unloading
of these stocks and the expense of starting
new departments that was responsible for
the loss of £3688 for the year to June 30,
1928. Also the Perth, Adelaide, Hobart
and Launceston branches had become more of
a hindrance than a help; so it was decided
to close them. Savings amounting to
£12,000 p.a. were expected to follow. The
co. continued to manufacture radio re-
ceivers, and increased its facilities for
their output.
Last year’s disastrous experience was
brought about by the collapse in values of
all battery-operated radio sets, due (1) to
the appearance of the so-called all-electric
sets, and (2) to the flooding of the local
market with old-pattern stocks from Europe
and America at practically gift prices. Also,
owing to differences in construction, what
was previously standard material immediately
became obsolete. In the circumstances busi-
ness had to be forced, mostly at prices below
book values and in some cases below cost.
In an effort to partly retrieve the position
the co. proceeded to make its own all-
electric sets, thus absorbing part of the old
stocks. Nevertheless the year’s trading re-
sulted in a loss of £71,390, raising the p.
and 1. debit to £76,466. Trade marks, etc.,
figured at £5700, so, after allowing for an
alleged reserve of £lOOO on the other side
of the sheet, there were net tangible assets
with a book value of only £44.315 to repre-
sent the £125,482 of paid capital. That is
excluding £286 by which plant was written
up during the year.
The radio section was responsible for
about two-thirds of last year’s loss; the
factors contributing to the other third were
the co.’s withdrawal from business in West-
tralia, S. Aus. and Tas., the cost of developing
the new radio model and direct and indirect
fire losses. The Sydney warehouse was
completely destroyed by fire during the term.
Here is tlie position, with comparisons, as
balanee-slieet figures disclose it: —
1927. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital .. .. £100,500 £125,481 £125,481
Overdraft . . . . 19,078 17,563 42,339
Sundry creditors .. 38,737 56,924 30,441
Plant, etc. . . . . 8,749 f 9,366 5,252
Shares other cos. . . 26 56
Stocks 97,291 115,419 38,146
Book debts . . . . 55,740 65,103 35,528
Cash, etc. .. . . 225 373 • 38,456
At June 30 the co. owed £72.750, to meet
which there were stocks, book debts, cash,
etc., totalling £112,130. Fittings were given
a book value of £5252. Thus, on the figures,
the whole of the pref. capital was intact and
about 3s. lOd. per ordinary share besides.
But the figures were nearly five months old
when they were presented, and no hint has
been given as to whether further losses have
been made since the books were ruled off.
The position at the moment is that the direc-
tors are negotiating for the sale of the co.’s
Maoriland business, the chairman is endeav-
oring to form a new co. to take over the
specialty department, and another concern,
yet to be incubated, may buy the radio sec-
tion. Shareholders are to be called together
again on Dec. 20 and told what has happened
in these respects. Until then their position
remains uncertain.
Mt. Isa is to increase its nominal capital
to £3,000,000 by the creation of a million
new pound shares. This is in order to give
Mining Trust, Ltd., an option over a further
200,000 shares at 30s. each as consideration
for that co.’s guarantee of a loan of £250,000.
Owing to the satisfactory development of
the ore reserves the capacity of the plant
is to be greater than the 2000 tons per day
at first proposed; hence the loan. So far
over 25,000,000 tons of ore believed to be of
commercial grade has been proved, and that
figure is expected to look small compared
with what another couple of years’ drilling
and development will reveal. Shaft-sinking,
development and the erection of the mill and
the 15,000 h.p. generating plant are being
pushed ahead, and production and treatment
should begin before the close of next year.
* * * *
The 10-head battery being erected by F. W.
Cuthbert and G. O. Wilkinson at Misima
(Papua) is nearing completion. With the
cost of transport high and rainfall exces-
sive the show’s disadvantages are great.
Nevertheless, at present No 7 level carries
400 ft. of ore, ranging from 355. to 60s. per
ton, and the face of the level shows 9ft. x
7ft. of ore worth £3 to £4 6s. per ton, with
no foot- or headwall showing yet. The width
of ore at this level is expected to average 16ft.
The level above shows 30ft. wide of 30s. to
£2 Bs. ore.. Practically all the gold is
soluble in cyanide. Without crushing at
all 3000 tons cyanided recently returned
£3OOO, while the residues have carried out
about another £3OOO worth of unrecovered
gold. Naturally, an uncrushed product is
in an imperfect condition for proper cyani-
dation, and it is for this reason that the
battery is being installed. The show has
been worked in this crude fashion ever since
B. H. Block 10 pulled out, and there are
many years’ work assured yet. Everything
suggests that this big body of oxidised ore
overlays a mineralised lode rich, at least,
in lead. Whether this will pay to work under
present conditions is another matter.
The Papuan syndicate that took on the
Misima property after Block 10 abandoned
it did well out of the venture under Wilkin-
son’s management. Yet the gold thrown
away in the residues equalled or exceeded
the amount of gold won, owing to the absence
of means to properly reduce the ore.
* * * *
The Anglo-Persian Oil Co. has at last
abandoned its search for oil in Central
Papua, so another vision of empire oil goes
west. The large staff employed comprised
experts who have chased the elusive stuff
on most of the world’s great oilfields, as well
as a considerable tail of European employees
and native laborers. The only results left
after 15 years of hard work are five deep
bores in different parts of the district, and a
lot of people looking for new jobs.
* * # *
“Poincettia”: That hardy pioneer Mick
Leahy, who has been pottering about the
nooks and corners of the Waria watershed
(New Guinea) for the last two years,
recently applied for a number of leases in
the Sini Valley. Here, two or three miles
below Lake Wawaru, he is reported to have
struck something showing good prospects in
gold, silver and lead. The Waria Valley, by
the way, might yet prove to be one of the
most attractive spots in the Territory for
coffee and cocoa growing. The climate is
temperate, the valley being about 2000 ft.
above sea-level.
* * * *
Rockley goldmine, near Rockley (N.S.W.),
is to be given another start, after a
long idleness. So far this mine, formerly
known as Carter’s Hill, has done nothing
much, but good alluvial was formerly won
from Sewell’s Creek, just below the mine. The
property is equipped with a 10-head battery,
concentrators and cyanide plant, and there
is a heap of several thousand tons of tailings,
said to extract about 6idwt. Little squibs,
here to-day and gone to-morrow, abound in
this hilly country, as also do shafts sunk
with Government aid. The one bright excep-
tion wms Black Bullock, at Oberon, where
Thos. Buckland came out well to the good
financially.
*
The black beach sands near Byron Bay
(N.S.W.) have been worked spasmodically
for gold for years. In the seventies of last
century good values were got with a primi-
tive amalgamation process. Fresh attention
has been given to the locality lately, and a
local syndicate has shipped 100 bags of the
sand to Canada, there to be treated for its
gold, platinum and tin content. If the
tests come up to expectations it is intended
to form a co.. and get busy.
* * * *
Freney Co. (W.A.) is proudly exhibiting
a letter recently received from its London
consulting engineer, Dr. Wade. He says
the presence of gas under pressure is a very
favorable sign and that the bore seems to
be the most promising yet put down in that
part of Australia. Drilling will probably
be pushed ahead a bit faster for the next
few months.
*i*
The Westralian State Government bat-
teries, which are the out-back prospector's
salvation, are preparing for the usual Christ-
mas run. Since their inception they have re-
covered over £0,250,000 worth of gold, and
about £lOO,OOO of tin. Expenditure has
always exceeded direct revenue, but pro-
spectors and clairnholders have been kept
on their shows in countless instances.
***:):
Enterprise Gold Mines, Kalgoorlie, in
which Boulder Perseverance is tightly hold-
ing to an eighth interest, struggles on. A
small Adelaide co. is in control, and although
it has tried hard during the last year or
two or get more of the public in it hasn't
succeeded so far. Meantime, attempts are
being made to sustain market interest in
the show by reports about the value of this
or that development, plus occasional esti-
mates of ore in sight. When the Enter-
prise was known as the Boulder No. 1
Golden Pike Blocks, working parties pot-
tered about and obtained gold now and then
from shoots which were not big enough for
cos. It is doubtful if the shoots now being
worked are any larger or that any fortunes
have been left behind.
H* ij*
Sons of Gwalia, Leonora (W.A.), seems
unable to carry on at a profit, despite liberal
Government assistance. Shareholders got
their last div. (Is.) in 1920. Its pay
shoots are neither so good nor as cheap to
work as they used to be. Nevertheless, there
is no mine in the State where better all-
round work is being done.
❖ ❖ ❖
Brown’s Reward (W.A.) is again talked
about. This time it is said to have got hold
of a promising oil area. Recently the shares
were almost unsaleable. A new board has
stepped in.
* * * *
Tinsongkhla, a Melbourne-floated Siamese
show, began digging at the end of last year,
and unexpectedly encountered stiff clay con-
ditions. This handicap was later augmented
by a water shortage. For some months past
the dredge has been working over its own
tailings, and recoveries have been consequently
low. So far all the trouble has been in
section A; better results are expected from
section B, which is further up the lead, and
has been bored and check-bored with an eye
specially peeled for the clay which somehow
was not discovered in the first section. The
testing of B disclosed an average depth of
25ft. going 17oz. of t.o. to the cubic yard,
or about the same as was estimated in sec-
tion A. So far the recoveries in the latter
area have been nothing like that, the best
being 21i tons in January last for an average
of .611 b. per yard. It is hoped to tackle sec-
tion B by the beginning of next year, when
the co.’s affairs are expected to brighten
considerably. Calls are being made to pro-
vide for liabilities.
Paid capita] is £162.725 in 255. shares
paid to 235. Buyers offer 7s. for the ords.
after sales at 7s. 6d. The prefs.—there are
10.000 of them carrying a cumulative 10 p.c.
—are not listed.
$ $ $ $
The affairs of New Phin Soon, a recon-
struction of Malay Siamese’s old Chinese
open-cut show, have moved along another
stage. A new Australian board has replaced
the old one in Malaya, and the registered
office is to be transferred to Sydney. Mean-
while the mine has been let on tribute for
£2BOO p.a., and is returning good tonnages
with gravel-pump equipment. The property
is undoubtedly a rich one, but, owing to the
capital called for on reconstruction being
over £16,000 short of requirements, the co.
has no funds with which to work and equip
it. For these purposes £20,000 is required,
including £15,000 for plant. When the price
of tin gets back to the £2OO mark or there-
abouts, the board will probably ask share-
holders to put up the sum wanted in 15
p.c. debentures with a currency of three
years. Failing that it is proposed to sell
the property, or else seek amalgamation with
other interests.
With modern equipment and tin at £2OO
James Marshall, the co.’s engineer, figures
that, after redeeming the debentures, enough
profit would be earned in three years to
return the present paid capital (£35,913) and
then pay divs. averaging over 19 p.c. p.a.
Costs, which mostly exceeded 2s. per yard,
were one of the co.’s chief difficulties in the
past. With new equipment they are not
expected to exceed lid. per yard.


ns
I
watts
;;
'
Ilf K ‘t i h
■HR Mil
m tmmm
Substantial
price reductions in
Super XtbC Batteries
THE production of the New Super-Exide is the supreme success of
battery construction. Over forty years of continuous and exclusive
, experiment culminate in this great scientific triumph. Ask your garage
or service station to demonstrate to you the many merits of the new
battery. Now, these reduced prices are an additional attraction.
6-Volt 13 plate
Type 3-XCI3-1
6-Volt 13 plate
Type 3-CXI3-1
6-Volt 13 plate
Type 3-XFI3-1
6-Volt 15 plate
Type 3-XCIS-1
6-Volt 17 plate
Type 3-XCI7-1
6-Volt 19 plate
Type 3-XCI9-1
12-Volt 9 plate
Type 6-XC9-1
6-Volt 11 plate
Type 3-XCII-1
Heavy Duty Battery Capacity 98
amp'eres. Suit all light six
and four cylinder cars
Heavy Duty Battery as above,
but with Special Assembly for
latest Chevrolet Six
Heavy Duty Battery Capacity 98
amperes Special Container tOi
suit Model A Ford
I
i Heavy Duty Battery Capacity
114 amperes. Suit all big six
and four cylinder cars
Heavy Duty Battery Capacity
130 amperes. Suitable for Stutz
and Willys Knight Cars
Heavy Duty Battery Capacity
146 amperes. Suitable for
Chrysler Imperial, Packard, etc.
Heavy Duty Battery Capacity 65
amperes. Suitable for most
English and Continental cars.
Light Duty Battery Capacity 82
amperes, suitable for all light
cars.
Standard Wood
Insulation
£4/15/6
£4/15/6
£4/15/6
£ 5/8/-
£6/5/-
£7/2/-
£6/19/6
£4/3/6
Rubber
Insulation
£6/-/-
£6/-/-
£6/-/-
£6/16/6
£7/17/6
£B/18/6
£B/12/-
Manufacturing in Australia has made possible these reductions
Australian Distributors:
N.S.W.: City Service Station, 54-56 Wentworth
Avenue, Sydney.
Q’LAND: Exide Battery Service (Q.) Ltd.,
Adelaide Street, BRISBANE: Stanley Street.
Sth. Brisbane.
VIC.: A.. P. Sutherland, Queen’s Bridge
(2 Maffra Street), South Melbourne.
SOUTH AITST.: Unbeliaun & Johnstone Ltd.,
“Johnstone House,” “Exide” Service Station,
97 Currie Street, Adelaide.
W. AUST.: M. J. Bateman
House, Milligan Street,
Ltd., Magneto
PERTH.
HOME
CAR , RADIO


<r«
I \TOA>»
m
m
¥
Mi
if
m
<M
tr”
JSsr
i
Ti i
»
H A R.DT'S
SPA.RKZLIJVG
“As refreshing as a fountain.


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers'
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
THEGREYSI
SIZEoTWO > T^
SILK CUT VIRGINIA
DRAP
E® for 9di. CIGARETTES ®i® for
100 /PURE
VIRGINIA
Without any exaggeration “Greys” are as fine a
cigarette as you can buy—they are made from 100
per cent, pure and properly matured Virginia
tobacco that gives you a cool sweet-flavored smoke.
There are no fancy frills to “Greys,” they are just
good cigarettes that protect your palate and leave
no after taste. They will soothe and satisfy.
ASK FOR
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights’’
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20.
52 MacleaySt
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT, SYDNEY
(Located within the City Boundary, ten
minutes from G.P.0.)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 160 rooms, is now open, and
features Single Rooms, Double
Rooms with Bath, and two-, three-
and four-room Suites with Bath-
Central Heating, Hot and Cold
Water, ’Phone and Bedside Lamp
in each room. Unsurpassed
Harbor views.
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines).
Telegraphic Address: ‘‘Fifmac,”
Sydney.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“Up North”: Several communists who
escaped from the Dutch New Guinea prison
camp and crawled, cut, swam and climbed
their way down on to the Fly and thence
to the Oriomo had to traverse headhunters’
country. Only four men (one was the son
of a rajah of Timor) got to the Oriomo.
They would not say how many set out. They
were treated kindly by the white folk on the
Oriomo and taken to Thursday Island, where
a Dutch patrol-ship picked them up. The
Dutch don’t advertise the fact, but they
have about 2000 prisoners in their prison
camp, which is about 60 miles inland from
the Ply, between the Fly and the Digoul.
Most of the detained gentry were concerned
in a murderous uprising some time ago.
“M.G.S.”: My experience of a
Malay birth was .slightly dif-
ferent from that described by
“Barangkali” (B. 6/11/’29). It
occurred on a remote island in
the Java Sea, and the obser-
vances enjoined on the partici-
pants by the presiding dukum or
witch-doctor were far more logi-
cal. He insisted that everybody
present should empty his pockets,
that every drawer should be
opened and upended, that all
doors should be unlatched and all
coats and other articles of appa-
rel unbuttoned. These measures
not being immediately effectual in
causing a prompt delivery, he
searched the persons of every-
body in the audience and finally
discovered that I had concealed
a cigarette-case with a spring-
catch. When this was brought
to light and the catch released he
expressed himself thoroughly
satisfied. A few minutes after-
wards my host became the father
of a fine boy. The event was re-
garded locally as a triumphant
vindication of the ancient prin-
ciples of sympathetic magic.
* * *
“Sailor Quack”: When the
shipwrecked mariner reaches the
coral island (in books) he lands,
picks a bread-fruit and a cocoa-
nut, lights a fire with his spy-
glass, bakes the fruit, knocks the
head off the nut, and there he
lias a meal of stuff like good
wheaten bread and a drink like
sparkling champagne. But for
three years 1 tried in vain to get
someone to cook bread-fruit so
that I ■ could eat it, and as for
cocoanut milk, even if you can
swallow the insipid stuff, you run
the risk of the worst bellyache
in the five kingdoms.
*, * *
“Darken”: Since confessions by the “had”
brotherhood are in fashion, let me make mine.
Working with riggers over a hundred feet
up I was sent down to the works store for
a sky-hook. “Yer stiff,” grinned the store-
man. “The angels got ’em all t’ hook up
the clouds for the next thunderstorm.”
* * * *
“Cadonga”: The queerest customer I en-
countered in the bush was an old cove who
came up to our camp and, sitting down on his
IF SOAP AND SWEAT WOULD DO IT.
Customer {with a month’s growth ): “ D’ye think you’ll be able to get ’em off, Jim?”
JIM ( who’s been having a hard time): “Oh yes, I’ll get them off all right—if the handle
don’t break.”
swag, began to talk about this and that while
my mate and I busied ourselves preparing
a meal. We had a blue enamel billycan,
and the moment this vessel was put on the
fire our visitor stopped talking and began
to fidget uneasily. Suddenly he sprang up.
AFTER THE COLLISION.
DEFENSANT: “The things the prosecutor don’t know about driving a car, your Worship,
would fill a book.”
THE BENCH : “And it seems to me, young man, the things you don't know about it
would fill a hospital.”
and, rushing at the fire, kicked the billycan
a good ten yards into the bushes. “I can’t
stand them flash billies!” was his muttered
explanation. As it was our only billycan
and we had carried the water a considerable
distance we reproached him bitterly. H'c
hoisted Matilda and departed. “Yer talk ter
me like that?” he called back to us in a
peeved tone. “Why, I thought yer was a
coupla gents!”
* * * *
“0.W.W.”: Bert had donated two fine tur-
keys to publican Dolan, so he was invited to
carve them at Christmas dinner. “Bush-
man’s or aristocrat style?” he inquired.
“Bushman’s!” shouted everybody, hoping
for thick, generous slices. Bert carved a
liberal helping, added vegetables, and set the
plate before himself. . “That’s bushman’s
style,” he announced, picking up knife and
fork. “ Everyone ’elps ’ewi.se/lnes/”
* * * *
“358 Yea”: My eldest son, who boasts 10
years, had decided to attend his first fancy-
dress ball as Sir Roger de Coverley, and,
though I say it myself, he looked the part,
with wig, powdered hair, lace ruffles, satin
knee-breeches, silken hose and buckle shoes,
and we were mighty proud of him. Before
his departure to the scene of festivities, we
invited him to come in and say good night
to our other young hopeful, aged three. _ As
Sir Roger with stately tread strode into
the room, he daintily bowed and with a
graceful sweep of his kerchief exclaimed
mincingly, “Little brother does not know who
I am.” Three-years looked up, his little face
glowing with astonishment, and his great
big baby eyes round with wonder. He was
spell-bound for a moment, then he gasped
“Ned Kelly!”
* * * *
“Luny”: The jokers who send the new
boy on a fool’s errand don’t always score.
I remember the time we sent the youngest
apprentice to the chemist for “sixpennorth
of pigeon’s milk,” and he brought some
white liquid hack, with a label to prove its
identity. The man of pills had made up a
weak solution of bismuth and water, and
was a grin and the best part of sixpence to
the good.
* * * *
“Tamornie” : Like Binghi, the Melanesians
have their sacred trees, or trees which are
credited with being able to exert a malign
influence if disturbed. Otherwise well-
disciplined natives will flatly refuse to set
axe or knife to certain trees or clumps of
scrub when clearing brush. In such casns
the planter or overseer, to ridicule the belief,
generally makes the first onslaught, uf<x.
which the laborers carry on the work with-
out hesitation. In three instances of which
I had personal knowledge the white man
was killed shortly afterwards, or died from
the effects of injuries caused by falling
limbs from apparently sound trees. Co-
incidences, of course, but disturbing.
* ❖ *
“Brolga”: During a discussion in a way-
back pub, one of the wranglers snapped:
“Oh, you’re mad!” “Mad, am I?” thundered
the other. “Just look at that!” and he pro-
duced his discharge from a mental asylum.
* * * *
“Pick”: Sugar-ants, the quakers of ant-
dom, are ever peaceable and inoffensive.
Unlike bulldog-ants and jumpers they carry
no sting, nor have they, like meat-ants,
pairs of formidable nippers. Unarmed they
leave warfare to the other fellows, but when
menaced they show a wonderful ability in
evasion and retreat. They hide their dwell-
ings in far-away nooks under banks or in
crannies of rocks, and they forage singly
by night when the landscape is clear of kin-
dred foes. If one who has lingered long at
the camp sugar-bin and is rollicking home
by daylight blunders across the crowded
track of an enemy tribe, and is ferociously
attacked by the cannibals, he treats them
with lofty disdain. While they. rush him
from all sides, he sidesteps their assaults
with neat precision, and kicks his legs out of
reach of their champing jaws with marvellous
dexterity. By leisurely flight he criss-crosses
the country, and when eventually he has
baffled his pursuers he resumes his bee-line
for home.
* * * *
“E.S.”: One good idea that far-inlanders
got from Binghi was the making of water-
butts from hollow logs. The settler fits in
a wooden bottom, and sinks it a foot or
more in the ground. Some of the “casks ’
are 15ft. or 16ft. long, in which case they
are sunk a dozen feet in the ground. Binghi’s
container was more primitive. Having found
a suitable hollow log. he burnt it off at
the length required, after which a mob had
perhaps to roll it several miles to where
water was wanted in dry times. Then it
was sunk a couple of feet in clayey ground,
with more clay dumped in and rammed to
make a good holding bottom, so that it stood
like a partly-burnt stump. . Very few
strangers would think of looking into that
camouflaged water-butt, which in times of
rain is filled to tue top. Prospectors know
the stumps, and look out for them on dry
tracks.
(Continued on page 25.)
THE POINT OF VIEW.
[FOR THE BLULLRTIN.]
“The world’s a mud-’eap, lad,” said Joe,
“when you are down an’ done,
An’ strikin’ snags at every turn, no matter
where you run;
But if you’re travellin’ fast an’ light the
clover paddocks through
Your ’ead’s ’eld ’igh, an’ then somehow you
change yer point o’ view.
“Long Tom an’ me ’ad humped our swags for
days along the track
With burnin’ feet an’ achin’ eyes an’ blis-
tered ’ands an’ back.
When toney coves went whirlin’ by, a-
sprawlin’ at their ease,
Long Tom would grumble angrily: ‘Aw!
Damn the likes o’ these!
“ ‘They ain’t no use for anything as far as I
can see
Unless its jist to make things worse for coves
like you an’ me
By raisin’ dust that crawls an’ creeps an’
leaves a feller blind
An’ cursin’, while ’e pads the ’oof a ’undred
yards behind.’
“Then came a day Tom struck it rich an’
threw ’is swag aside,
An’ now you’ll see ’im with the blokes that
’ave the cash an’ pride.
’E ’as a ’ouse, a wife, four dogs, a car an’
servants now,
An’ reckons me, I’ll bet a bob, a poor, un-
lucky cow.
“Still, that’s the world all over, lad. It’s no
use goin’ crook,
You’ll find it just the flamin’ same no matter
where you look.
When you’re on top the man below seems
no account to you,
It just depends, as I ’ave said, upon your
point o’ view.”
VICTORIA.
P.T.F.


Endurance
THE BATTLE OF THE MARATHON.
Before the famous battle of the Persian invading forces and
the Athenians, on August 12th, 490, the Son of Epopeus,
King of Sicyon ran the whole distance from the field of the
battle of the Marathon to Athens carrying news. A feat of
endurance rarely surpassed in history.
O *ol
V\
K
sss?
a
I
*r=
a
w
; §
I
»
!^r-
-3
\vy2
'.^rfTT'f
n
wnww
Tyres
jßr endurance
8,G.9M.2£


Jlft IjOlitw
Riiiptuim
l
For complete comfort and
freedom you need Denyer’s
Elastic Truss, with its patent
water-pad. Write for free
pamphlet. Trusses also made
to order.
Single, 30/-; Double, 40/
DENYER BROS.,
DEPT. 1,
267 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOIS
S»UVBR'ToP
SPfC'A*.
dry gin
-■-V.W
0
SILVER CAP
352 YEARS
EXPERIENCE
guarantees
\ts quality
In the square
glass bottle with
the Green label
m
a
m
Weight
and
Quality
are factors in the
value of the stock. But purchasers’ business is to
Duy as cheaply as possible. Winchcombe Carson’s
business as salesmen is to see that their clients get
full value. And in that regard they are consistently
successful. Their energy, knowledge and determina-
tion in making sales are a complete safeguard for
owners’ interests.
CONSIGN CATTLE, SHEEP, LAMBS, TO
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
LTD.
Homebush Yardsj
Sydney,
or
Enoggera Yards,
Brisbane.
“M.G.S.”: “Berhantu” opines (B.
6/11/’29) that my belief that the lethal
effects of the sumpitan or blowpipe have pro-
bably been exaggerated is due to the fact
that I lived in Borneo at a time when the
weapon was no longer used in human war-
NO ENCOURAGEMENT AT ALL.
CONVICT 99: “No cards, no draughts, no dominoes, no”
WARDRR: “No—no games at all.”
CONVICT 99: “Cripes, a bloke’d be better off at home."
fare. In 1845 the first Rajah Brooke re-
marked in his journal that he had the same
doubts. He came to the conclusion that so
Stf rzff K 3
revolting tribes equipped with the same im-
plement he presumably spoke from practical
experience.
jl* jJj
“Dohori”: One of the little creeks of
Papua, half a mile across, its waters so
crystal clear that one can see a lazy old
alligator basking at the bottom of it. Drop
scenes of D’Alberti blazing from the 200
feet-high tops of illimo-trees. Lady palms
and white blossoming shrubs, border-
ing the banks, and mountain moss and lovely
ferns rioting across the stream. Dragon-flies
in myriads, all opalescent gold and green and
scarlet and mauve, fluttering by, and a bird
of paradise flashing past like a golden meteor.
The Wabada boys who man the whaleboat
ply their oars in silence. Round a bend in
the creek a canoe shoots out. Ten savages
in dogs’-teeth necklaces paddle it. Ugly
brutes these, who never even look at us.
Suddenly across the tops of the trees comes
the sound of singing. A canoe passes right
out in the centre of the stream. An old
native woman rows it, and it is piled high
with golden plantains. Fanning herself in
the bows is a Chinese girl clad in a long
loose gown of crimson silk. Round her neck
and reaching down to her waist there gleams
a shining string of pearls. Her name is
Excellent Brightness, and she is daughter to
one of the few Chinese still in the Possession.
*. * * *
“Tomb”: To satisfy “Chevroford’s” crav-
ing for information concerning Australia's
ultra-lightweight timbers, gympie, officially
known as fibrewood (Laportea gigas), when
air-dried weighs 151 b. per cub. ft. The trees
attain a height of 120 feet with a girth
of 20 feet and are common in the scrubs of
southern Queensland. Grey, corkwood (Ery-
thrina vespertilio), with an air-dried weight
of 201 b. per cub. ft., is tough and fibrous and
is largely used for brake blocks by teamsters.
The abos. used it for making shields owing
to its lightness, toughness and non-splitting
qualities. It occurs sporadically over a large
area, and the trees run to 30ft. high with a
girth of 30in. to 40in. Black kurrajong
(Brachychiton populneum) weighs 281 b. per
cub. ft. air-dried. This species reaches up to
70ft. high with a girth of 12ft., and pro-
vides the material for making “straw” hats.
A note to the O.C. Fancywoods Section,
Queensland Forest Service, would bring fuller
particulars and possibly samples if required.
* # # *
“Eureka”: The most tattooed man I ever
met was a Maltese named Mafsu. He had
a, picture of the crucifixion right across his
chest, and on his hands and feet were tat-
tooed the nailmarks of crucifixion. The rest
of his body was covered with
the pictures of saints. He said
that when he was a youth this
was the form of punishment for
even minor offences adopted by
his very religious father. The
pain of the tattooing operations,
he said, was terrific.
“Jim Carew”: To the casual observer
many aboriginal wells appear to b e quite
dry when, as a matter offact, they contain
A
found water. When he found the soil at the
bottom of his well getting damp he would
drive downwards diagonally and continue
until he found water. When he had secured
sufficient for his immediate needs he would
either fill in this small drive or cover its
opening so that anybody looking at it would
HIS RECORD.
AVLATOR ( ruefully ): “I was trying to make a record. "
DAD: “Well, you’ve made it, boy—you’ll be the first bloke in this State who climbed
down a tree without havin’ to climb up it first.”
think it dry and leave his water supply
alone. Most of Binghi’s wells are only a few
feet deep, but in parts of W.A. I have seen
shafts driven down 20 feet.
* * * *
“Boronia”: For immunity to white ants
and durability in the ground, I doubt if
there is any timber to compare with the West-
ralian jamwood. Fencing-posts of two and
three inches diameter put in the ground 10
years ago are still standing up to their job,
and few are ever attacked by termites. An-
other remarkable thing about this timber is
that it is much harder to chop when green
than when perfectly dry. When dry, a
keen axe can persuade the wood to chip, but
when green its absolute refusal to do so is
enough to make any self-respecting axe
shudder.
* * * *
“S.S.S.”: At Mauviavi, of Papua, which
glows in its swamp like a pearl in a swine s
snout, Tauliiney had almost completed the
r.nh» rl o n o*li Tot* Tv mi-
sale of his daughter Ivou-
bebe, the village belle, to
Itahu for three pigs, a
dogs’-teeth necklace, a
smoked hand and an Ori-
kiva arm-shell. Then
along came Rahu’s grand-
mother and swore that
it was too much; the
girl wasn’t worth it. Rahu
could have the chief’s
own daughter for less.
Kou-bebe disappeared;
no doubt a shark must
have taken , her, and
Rahu married the chief’s
daughter. Three months
late Baia, the bride, sit-
ting on the shore at
Motu Motu, sorting out
fish with the other
women, bent down to
take a little shark in her
hands to 1 throw it aside,
when it sprang at her
and ripped the flesh from
her thigh to her ankle,
stripped it clean to the
bone. It turned black and she died.
Undoubtedly (so they all said) the shark was
the ghost of Kou-bebe.
* * * *
“S. Severn”: Simbiri, ehieftainess of the
Orikiva tribe, is black as a cooking-pot. By
sheer force of individuality she has become
head of this great and strange people, in
a land where women are regarded as mere
chattels. The Orikivas differ from other
Papuan tribes in speech, appearance and
customs. They have an Egyptian cast of
countenance; they embalm, their dead; they
write in hieroglyphics. The eyes of Simbiri,
which should have been black or dark brown,
were blue, blue as the balsams that riot over
the Owen Stanley ranges. Her hair was
dressed in hundreds of tiny plaits, each end-
ing in a rose-red shell on a level with her
chin. Round her slender neck, suspended
from a string of human hair, was a tiny
pouch of woven silkgrass in which lay a
secret and most puissant sorcery. Her tappa
rami bore a design of the sun. B-aim,
seventh son of Buslii-mai-wa, last great chief
of the Binundele, stood six feet high in liis
uniform of a corporal in the Armed Con-
stabulary. He was unusually light and fine
of skin, heritage of a Malayan mother. He
strode into Simbiri’s village and demanded
that a new lodge be built in readiness for
his taubada’s arrival two days hence. Im-
possible. The men were away hunting, and
the women worked in the gardens. But
the lodge was built, for Simbiri was stricken
deep with love of E-ami. Alas, he scorned her,
she being black. After the patrol had sat
in judgment and passed on with its prisoners,
I came upon Simbiri crouched sobbing by
the dragon-fly pool deep in the silent jungle.
Beside her on the bank lay the secret sorcery,
which liadi slipped from its pouch. I found
it to be a scarab of ancient Egypt. Her
mother and her mother’s mother had pos-
sessed it —how much further back it had been
in the family she did not know. But, any-
way, it had failed.
* * * *
“Arikiwai”: Sydney Parkinson, with Capt.
Cook (first voyage), definitely settles the
Maori bow-and-arrow argument (“Tano
Fama,” B. 2/10/’29). Noting the affinity
of the Maori with the Tahitian in respect
to language, etc., his journal states: “The
migration was probably from N.Z. to Tahiti,
as the inhabitants of N.Z. were unacquainted
with the use of bows and arrows till we
taught them, whereas the people of Tahiti
use them with great dexterity, having doubt-
less discovered the use of them by accident
after their separation; and it cannot be
supposed that the New Zealanders would
have lost so beneficial an acquisition if they
had ever been acquainted with it.”
* * * *
“Tomb” : Growing in the “wallum” lands of
coastal southern Queensland is a tree known
as wooden pear ( Xylomelum pyriforme) , the
fruit of which is extraordinary. It is a
pear of about the regulation size, but is
made of wood so tough that it is practically
impossible to break it. To further add to its
freakishness the stalk is inserted in the big
end. When ripe the pears split open,
liberating two flimsy winged seeds. Another
freak fruit is that of the brown pine (Podo-
carpus data). The fruit is a luscious-looking
blue-black plum, but it wears its seed stuck
on the end outside.
* * * *
“Tee Essbie”: I can carry this New
Guinea blowpipe controversy back 300
years. On October 18, 1606, Torres
and De Prado put in at the bay of St. Peter
of Arlanza (now Triton Bay in Dutch
New Guinea) in order to refresh their crews.
Torres records that the natives when fighting
“use bows and arrows, very large shields
and tubes of bamboo filled with lime, which
they blow into the faces of their enemies,
thus blinding them.”
THE WATERFALL.
[FOR THE BLULLRTIN.]
The roar of the waves on the foreland,
The rush of the troubled rain,
The sob of the wind on the moorland
Have set me dreaming again
Of laurel and red lantana
Back of the ranges brown,
Where the waters of Elabana
Come down, come tumbling down.
A wonder of frost-white, hoary,
Smothering swirls of spray;
By night a shimmering glory,
A crystalline cloud by day;
Choir of the quiet places,
Hymn of the far hill s fold,
A silvery scale that races
To rippling notes of gold.
With the mountain-ash at its edges
Where the king ferns shudder and toss,
With the midget wren in the sedges
And the windbells over the moss,
An seons-old rush and battle
Of silvery foam white-whipped,
Under the brakes of the wattle
And the bowers of the eucalypt.
The very voice of the forest,
Menace and mirth and power,
When the press of the flood is sorest
In the aftermath of the shower.
Whisper and laugh and wonder,
Rise and ripple and fall,
And the threatening, deep-toned thunder
Always under it all.
Hush me the waves’ low thunder!
I’ll not be hearing the strain
Of waters the wet trees under
At Elabana again.
Nor watch, where we two walk never,
The old dreams vanish and drow”
Where the snows and the songs of the river
Come down, come tumbling down.
VICTOKIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


Our Seryice Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers. „ , , .
The service is entirely free. you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons. , ,
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Ex-A.I.F. officer, Vic., general and motor
mechanic; electrical knowledge, plumbing and car-
pentery, wants job in New Guinea.—339l.
Young man offers his services free for 12 months
to trader or planter in Islands; storekeeper, hand}’
with tools and machinery. Go anywhere; pay own
fare.—3447.
Commercial traveller, N.S.W., doing North and
Nor’-West by car, wants building-material lines.—
3417.
Banana grower, Q’land, with large area of first-class
land in clean district, desires to hear from persons
willing to plant 50 acres.—34l3.
Man (23), N.S.W., wants job anywhere. Exp.
Fordson tractor, any car or motor truck; running
repairs. Twelve months’ exp. wheat and sheep.
—3436.
Man (21), Vic., experience in advertising office,
also wheat farming, wants job in office or on wheat
farm or sheep station.—343s.
Leung man (24), Q’land, well educated, wants job
a:« book-keeper, secretary or tutor in country N.S.W.
or Q’land.—3476.
Man (36), thorough knowledge architecture and
building, motor-cars and trucks, long experience
supervising labor, wants job in New Guinea or
Islands.—3462.
Young man (31), W.A., Eng. Pub. School educ.,
eight, years’ bookkeeper, cashier, correspondence
clerk, wants clerical job station or general office.
Small wage for beginning on station. Refs. — 3463.
Man (26) wishes get in touch with another in
W.A. prepared to take adventurous cruise. Yachting
experience preferred; small capital necessary.—343B.
To hear from anyone who grows ferns, pot plants,
orchids or other plants suitable for a fernery, with
view to exchanging plants.—3474.
To buy McFce’s “Ocean Tramp,” Masefield’s “Salt-
water Ballads,” Stainforth’s “Racehorses in Aus-
tralia” and novels by John Sinjohn.—3479.
To buy Vols. I and II and X to XV of “Australian
Stud Book,” also “Australian Turf Register,” 1926,
1927 and 1928.—3392.
To buy book containing portraits of various types
of soldiers in the Great War drawn by Eugene
Bumand.—242B.
To buy “Pelleas and Melisande,” by Maeter-
linck.—336o.
To buy small quantity of thin buffalo hide, 3in.
wide, suitable for making belts. —3437.
To buy “Songs of Vigilance,” by Furnley Maurice,
or copy of verses “The Prince May Come To-night.”
—3405.
To buy “Australian Nursery Rhymes,” published
by The Bulletin in 1917. —3403.
Buy or exchange “Children of Gideon,” by Besant.
—3409.
To correspond with readers who grow cactus plants,
or who collect sea shells, curios and stamps.—3473.
Words of song “Paijdy McGinty’s G0at.”—3439.
Words of poem concerning dying Scot whose last
wish was that the bagpipes should be played outside
the hospital. (All the other patients died.) —3394.
Words of verse “To the Pipe,” by Donald Cameron.
—3390.
Whereabouts of William Churchill, last heard of
leaving Plumstead, London, for Vic.—34so.
Whereabouts of Josef Pinsack, wife, child and sister
Paquita, who left Ardmillen-road, Moonee Ponds
(Vic.), about 15 years ago for Innisfail canefields.
Will pay for information.—3469.
Whereabouts of Fred or Jack Garnett, for several
years sheep farming in N.S.W. —3471.
Information Sought.
What is meant by “ listing” a company’s
stock or shares? —3424 A.
City stock exchanges usually meet three
times a day, when the list of shares is
called over, and buyers and sellers disclose
themselves. Before a co. can be put on this
list, the committee of the Exchange examines
it, not to ascertain if its shares are a good
investment, but to make sure that, generally,
shareholders will have a fair run for their
money. Especially it reviews the articles of
association to satisfy itself that transfers
of shares can be effected without overmuch
difficulty; also it requires that the shares
shall be reasonably well spread.
The names of three or four companies (a)
ivliose shares have a good chance of capital
appreciation within the next two years, (b)
and which at the wprst will not go entirely
phut? Dividends are not so important? —
3472.
We shouldn’t like to promise a rise on any
stock during the next couple of years. Aus-
tralian Governments are likely to have
serious financial troubles, and it is impossible
to say what effect these may have upon
private finance. (Apparently, as French
experience is showing, a Government may be
fearfully hard up while its people may be
prosperous.) There seems no reason to
expect that Australian banks will not con-
tinue to make good profits. Most of them
now have large internal reserves. The
investment which has the largest possi-
bilities is almost always one in a young
manufacturing business. But in such cases
you have to pick your men; and while prizes
are very large, failures are very many.
Trustees cos. are good too.
(1) Where should I make inquiries about
money in Chancery? (2) Is it possible to
obtain it without legal assistance? (3) Are
there agents in Australia who do this class >
of work? —3375.
(1) To the Accountant-General, Supreme
Court (London). Payment out of court is
obtained on petition or summons. (2) Pos-
sible, but, at this distance, very difficult.
(3) Any solicitor could act for you.
When Britain restored the gold standard,
(1) what steps were taken to make the value
of the £ equal to 4.86 dollars. (2) What
was the .1 merican exchange value of the £
immediately prior to that event and when at
its lowest? —3368.
(1) The curtailment of borrowing, the
balancing of the Budget, the funding of the
American debt, and the reduction of the
amount of currency in circulation. (2) lor
some months prior to the restoration of Ihe
gold standard it hovered between 4.75 and
4.52. The lowest ebb was 3.20, touched on
February 5, 1920.
(1) Chances of a good mechanic, plumber
and carpenter getting a job in New Guinea?
(2) Arc there any vacancies in tlic New
Guinea Police Force? (3) Fare to Babaul
from Sydney? (4) Firms that would, con-
sider applications for positions in N.G.? (5)
Leading newspaper in territory? —339l.
(1) Very remote at present. (2) No
present vacancies. Vacancies as they occur
are advertised. Application is made to the
Prime Minister’s Department. Canberra. See
also Service Page (B. 29/5/’29). (3)
£2l 10s. (4) Try Burns, Philp, Bridge-
street ; W. R. Carpenter and Co., Ltd., 19
O'Connell-street, and New Guinea Trade
Agency, 114 a Pitt-street —all Sydney. (5)
Rabaul Times, Rabaul.
(1) What is the duty on painters' powder
colors. (2) On paint spraying machines? —
3256.
(1) British preferential tariff, 3s. per
ewt. or 20 per cent., whichever returns the
higher duty; general tariff, 4s. per cwt. or
30 per cent. (2) Motor and compressor,
British, 45 per cent.; general. 60 per cent.;
handpiece and pot attached thereto, British,
free; general, 10 per cent.; hose, British,
25 per cent.; general 40 per cent.; air tank.
British, 35 per cent.; general, 45 per cent.
A and B are the two, vigoro bowlers. A
bowls a ball, which is hit by the batting girl
into the air. May B catch, or try to catch
this ba11?— 3404.
Rule 8 is as follows: “Balls are bowled
alternately. One bowler must not field the
other bowler's ball.”
How to paint the body of a motor-car? —
3274.
Face down the whole surface with a
medium grit wet or dry sandpaper. Apply
one coat of lead-color primer. Fill in all holes
and blemishes with white-lead putty, leaving
the putty slightly raised so that when rubbed
down a smooth surface will result. Rub the
■whole surface over again with fine sandpaper
and dust thoroughly. Give one coat of coach
color, obtained in a paste form and thinned
with turpentine. Allow two hours for dry-
ing. Follow with a coat, consisting of a
small quantity of the coach color mixed
well into an undercoating body varnish.
After application allow to dry for at least
12 to 16 hours. Then rub over with dry
whiting and a cloth, to break the gloss, and
dust off thoroughly. Give a finishing coat
of a good durable body varnish.
Yearly average prices of greasy wool per
pound from 1910 to 1928?—3335.
Season 1910-11, Bsd. ; 1911-12. Bid.; 1912-
13, 9fd.; 1913-14, 9id.; 1914-15, Bftd.;
1915-16, 10id.; 1916-17, 141 d.; 1917-18,
14id.; 1918-19. 15d.; 1919-20. 15fd.; 1920-
21, 12$d. ; 1921-22, 12R ; 1922-23, 17$d.;
1923-24. 234 d.; 1924-25, 254 d.; 1925-26,
164 d.; 1926-27, 17d.; 1927-28,19Jd.; 1928-29,
16|d.
If a man is insolvent, can furniture bought
by his wife in her name out of housekeeping
money be claimed as her husband's assets f. —
3426.
It may be necessary to satisfy the Official
Assignee that at the time of the wife’s pur-
chase of furniture out of money given to
her by the husband, the latter was able to
pay all his debts without the aid of the
money transferred.
(1) Names of the planets and their
respective distances from the sun? (2) Dis-
tance from our sun to the nearest star? (3)
Book dealing with the solar system? —334S.
(1) Mean distances from the sun in mil-
lions of miles are: Mercury, 36.0; Venus
67.2; Earth, 92 9: Mars, 141.6 Jupiter.
483.3; Saturn, 886.2; Uranus, 1782.8; Nep-
tune, 2793.6. (2) Distance of Sun from
Proxima Centauri (the nearest star) is
24.066,000,000,000 miles approximately. (3)
“General Astronomy,” by Spencer Jones.
(1) Can property in Australia be claimed
by the creditors of a man interested in an
insolvent business in Maoriland? —3389.
(1) Yes, to the extent of his liability.
(1) Names of islands off the W.A. coast
said to contain large iron deposits? (2)
What companies hold leases there and their
addresses? (3) Have any of the cos. started
work there yet? (4) Prospect of securing
clerical work with any of the cos. operating?
—3397.
(1) Cockatoo and Koolan, in the Yampi
Sound district. (21 Australian Iron and
Steel Co., c/o Robinson, Cox and Co.,
Iloward-street; and Yampi Sound Electrical
Power and Smelting Syndicate, c/o Will
Davies, St. George’s-terrace, both of Perth.
(3) No. But it is understood a start is to
be made very shortly. (4) Apply to the com-
panies.
I bought an allotment of land the plan
of which, passed by the Municipal Council,
showed a 66/f. roadway, which included two
12 ft. footpaths. The council has now con-
structed a roadway 26 ft. wide and two foot-
paths each 20 ft. wide. Can the council com-
pel me to pay half the cost of kerb and
guttering ? —3177.
Section 243 of the Local Government Act
1919 (N.S.W.) confers such wide powers
that it is doubtful whether a Court would
hold the council bound by its earlier delimita-
tion.
Is the large spider which inhabits the walls
of houses in N.S.W. called a tarantula or a
tri antelope ? —317 6.
It is the huntsman spider ( Isopeda vil-
losa), commonly called the triantelope, and
is harmless and timid. The tarantula is a
poisonous spider of Southern Europe.
How to clean old ornamental brass. The
smooth part has retained its color, but the
ornamental parts have become tarnished? —
3130.
Salt, mixed with vinegar or lemon juice,
and applied with a brush will be effective,
or you can use any of the standard metal
polishes on the market.
Particulars of the distribution of income
in N.S.W. from £2OO p.a. to £5000?—3217.
Some details are not available, but a com-
putation has been made from published
statistics of the distribution in 1920-21. The
figures do not include lion-taxable interest
on war loans: Incomes under £7OO,
884,531; £7Ol to £lOOO, 7730; £lOOl to
£2OOO, 6,714: £2OOl to £3OOO, 1730; £3OOl
to £5OOO, 1040; over £5OOO, 701.
Particulars about the dollar-bird and its
habits? —3303.
The dollar-bird ( Eurystomus orientalis )
is the only representative in Australia of the
family known as rollers (Coraciidce). It
has greenish-blue plumage with a large round
white patch in the centre of each wing, very
conspicuous when it is flying. These patches
are said to be the origin of its name, as they
look like silver coins. The beak is very wide
and red in color. The bird occurs through-
out northern and eastern Australia during
the summer, retreating northwards to the
Malay Archipelago for the winter. It is
very noisy, with a peculiar clattering note ;
its flight is remarkable, as it rarely flies
straight for any distance, but tumbles and
twists in the air. This peculiarity, which
it shares with the rest of the family,
accounts for the name “rollers.” The eggs,
which are white, are laid in a hole in a tree,
generally near the extremity of a dead
branch, and the bird is clever enough to
mislead searchers for its nest by flying into
other holes.
(1) What was the quantity and value of
cocoa imported into the Commonwealth and
N.Z. in the last two years for which statis-
tics are available? (2) The sources of
supply? (3) Is cocoa grown in commercial
quantities in any part of Australia? —3247.
(1) Australia, beans and shells, 1926:
10,536.160 pounds, value £278,927: 1927:
8,414,296 pounds, £250.522 ; cocoa and choco-
late (from U.K., etc.), 1926: 341.331 pounds,
£26,637; 1927: 334,130 pounds, £25,038.
Maoriland, uncrushcd beans. 1926: £34,313 ;
1927: £24,639; cocoa and chocolate (U.K.),
1926: £37,485: 1927: £43,861. (2) Papua,
W«?t Samoa, New Hebrides, Ceylon, British
West Indies, Brazil, Ecuador. (3) Terri-
tory of Papua.
(1) What are the present causes of enmity
between Poland and Lithuania? (2) What
reasons had Italy for entering the Great
War? —3300.
(1) There is a dispute as to the possession
of the town and part of the province of
Vilna, at present occupied by Poland but
ceded to the Lithuanians when they made
their peace treaty with .Russia in 1920.
Later in the same year the Poles defeated
the Bolsheviks and drove the Lithuanians
out of Yilna, which the Lithuanians regard
as their capital. The kingdoms of Lithuania
and Poland were for centuries united under
one sovereign. (2) Austria would not pay
her the price she demanded in ceded terri-
tories as a reward for her neutrality, so
she made a bargain with the Allies (the
Pact of London, April 26, 1915) that she
was to receive the Trentino, the Southern
Tyrol, Trieste and other territories if she
entered the war on their side.
How to make an effective insect-destroying
spray for household use? —3477.
Eucalyptol, 10 parts; bergamot oil, 3
parts ; acetic ether, 10 parts ; eau-de-Cologne,
50 parts; alcohol (90 per cent.), 100 parts.
Mix. Add one part of this essence to 10
parts of water.
(1) Addresses of any substantial cos. that
apprentice aeroplane mechanics? (2) Is there
an age limit? (3) Would the wage support
a single man? (4) What chance is there
of employment in an aero factory as _ an
unskilled worker and working into a skilled
position? (5) What is the address of the
War Office in London? —3142.
(1) Matthews Aviation Co., Essendon.
Vic.; Larkin Aircraft Supply Co., Dudley-
street, Melbourne ; Aircraft Manuf. and Sup-
ply Co., Geelong, Vic. (2) and (3) As far
as is known, no award is in force regarding
persons engaged in aircraft work. The con-
ditions of employment are a matter of nego-
tiation between apprentice and employer.
(4) Very little. (5) The Secretary of State
for War, Whitehall, London.
How can one secure a position as weights
and measures inspector in N.S.W? What
qualifications must one possess, and what is
the salary paid? —33oB.
All appointments to the N.S.W. Weights
and Measures Department are made by the
Public Service Board, and it is the policy of
this department to appoint only youths under
21 years of age, ranging from 18 yehrs. Every
candidate must have passed the Intermediate
Certificate examination, and promotion to the
rank of inspector is dependent on passing a
subseo.uent examination in the law _of
evidence, court procedure and the practical
work of an inspector.
Has either the Old or New Testament been
translated into any of the Australian abo-
riginal languages, and if so, where can a
copy be obtained? —3311.
The New Testament was translated into
the language of the Dieri tribe, and published
in 1897. There was only a very limited
edition and copies are scarce. The British
and Foreign Bible Society published last
year a translation of the Four Gospels in
the Aranda language. This is obtainable
from the society, 242 Pitt-street, Sydney.
An aeroplane travelling at 200 m.p.h. is
pursued by a ’plane travelling at the same
rate. If a bullet travelling at 200 m.p.h. be
fired from the pursuing ’plane would it reach
the escaping ’plane? —292l.
Yes because to the velocity of the bullet
would be added the velocity of the ’plane
from which it was fired.
What prospects are there for a young
man with small capital in the plantation
business in the Islands? f _Where could I
get fuller information? —3235.
Land may be leased in the Territory of
New Guinea at an annual rent of Is. 3d.
per hectare (2-1 acres). To bring a cocoanut
plantation into bearing costs £2O to £25 per
acre, and for a cacao or coffee plantation
the cost would be from £l5 to £2O per acre.
A similar expenditure VK>uld be required in
connection with a plantation in Papua, where
the leasehold system is also in force. Apply
to the Government Secretary, Rabaul, Terri-
tory of Hew Guinea, and the Official Sec-
retary, Port Moresby, Papua. A Handbook
of Papua may be obtained from the Sec-
retary, Prime Minister’s Department, Can-
berra, at a cost of 2s. 3d., including postage.
Brief Answers.
A.T.A.: Yes, it can be done if you pick
your spot light; but that takes a lot of doing. There
is a distinct easing of values in many Sydney
districts, and this will probably continue... .N.G.:
Prospects seem fair; but the management has yet
to prove itself and on that rock it may founder. . . .
E. : A re-survey would be necessary to establish
encroachment which is actionable. You must in
any case conform to the Council’s requirement with
regard to the wa11... .F.L.: So far as we can trace
the first cantilever awning was erected in Sydney
by Brown and Brown over the Barrack-street cart
entrance to David Jones’s premises. The following
year the Sydney City Council architect drew out
designs for cantilever awnings and made them com-
pulsory for new buildings or alterations to existing
premises... .R.E.J.: Having entered into the con-
tract he may be compelled to complete it, but
forfeiture of the deposit is sometimes accepted in
satisfaction. Get in touch with the vendor. .. .T.R.:
See the “Australian Encyclopaedia’’ (Vol. II), page
568, for explanation of the working of the Julius
Totalisator. Available at most public libraries. .. .
F. : (1) Will answer later. (2) John Woods
and Co., Ltd., 388 Sussex-street, Sydney.... 11. F.:
On the occasion of the fight at Sydney, December
26, 1908, Burns weighed 12st. OAlb. and Johnson,
13st. 71b W. 11.5.: See “The Modern Extractor”
and “Mineral and Aerated W’aters,” by Mitchell....
C.A.R.: Write to Books Unlimited, Long-street, Cape
Town, and Bijou News Agency, P.O. Box 1514,
Johannesburg. J. H. Smythe, Ltd., 121 a Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney, may be able to put you in
touch with dealers in other countries... .G.L.8.:
(1) Particulars of the Commonwealth Government
Scenario Competition can be obtained from the
Commonwealth Films Office, !) Bligh-street, Sydney.
They were printed on the Service Page (B. 31/7/’29).
(2) and (3) Communicate with either Paulette
McDonagh, Drummoyne; Raymond Longford, c/o
Everyones, 102 Sussex-street; or Australasian Films,
Ltd., 251 a Pitt-street —all of Sydney.... S.T. : No
value... .J.P.8.: The Royal Sanitary Institute,
London, conducts an annual examination in Sydney
at the Technical College, usually during the second
week in December. Full particulars can be obtained
from E. Cresswick, Hon. Sec. to the N.S.W. Local
Board of Examiners, Board of Health Offices, Sydney.
... .W.K.: Coromandel-place, Adelaide, derives its
name from a ship from which a number of sailors
deserted on January 12, 1839, hiding in the vicinity
of the present street; Tam o’ Shanter-place is
named after a barque which arrived in Adelaide
on October 5, 1836. ... J.A.C.: Write to the
Development and Migration Commission, 175 Collins-
street, Melbourne, and ask for the Mechanical Trans-
port Committee’s report on producer-gas for motor
vehicles W.T.: Write to the Egg Marketing
Board, Rawson-plaee, Sydney... .N.H.S.: J. S.
Prout’s “Tasmania Illustrated,” Vol. I (1844), if
in first-class order, is worth from £lO to £l5.
Try leading Sydney booksellers. . . .C.J.L.: The phrase
is Montaigne’s “Whoever saw old age which did not
praise the past time and blame the present?”....
A. 8.: See L. H. Bailey’s “Standard Cyclopaedia of
Horticulture,” Vol. 111, page 2969. It also gives
lists of suitable plants for rock gardens. Can be
seen at most public libraries... .J.T.: It would be
safer to truck the horses, but if you must take them
by road, get the advice of the Stock and Brands
Branch, Dept, of Agriculture, Sydney, and the
S.A. and W.A. Depts. of Agriculture, before you
start, concerning routes and conditions. ... D.C.T.:
Fourteen years 37 weeks. There’s no short, easy
formula for this sort of computation, and most
business folk rely on tables. Approximately you
will owe at the end of one year, £455 155.;
second, £435 25.; third, £413; fourth, £389 10s.;
fifth, £363 10s.; sixth, £336 10s.; seventh,
£307; eighth, £276; ninth, £241, 155.; tenth,
£206 10s.; eleventh, £168; twelfth, £127;
thirteenth, £B2 10s.; fourteenth, £35....E.F.:
Can’t advise as to cost of transfer without full
details. The staiVip duty on the conveyance of
property is 15s. for every £lOO or fractional part
thereof... .J. 8.8.: Your seafaring tenant is in the
same position as any landsman with regard to
liability for rent and the furniture, etc., if any,
could be taken in execution of the Court’s order
consequent on default in payment. Some difficulty
might arise in serving him with a summons, and
probably that is what he means when he says Courts
can’t touch him.... A.G.: Submit it to A. E.
Smith, 68 Hunter-street, Sydney, for his opinion....
Probate: Federal probate duty none. State (N.S.W.)
exceeding £lOOO but not exceeding £5OOO, two
per cent A.D.M.L.: Bush Book Club of N.S.W ~
161 Castlereagh-street, Sydney. Rev. W. E. Dorin,
Australian Inland Mission, Carnarvon, W.A., would
also be pleased to receive old numbers of The
Bulletin for distribution among out-back settlers.
. ...J.S.H.; See “Harbors” in “Australian Ency-
clopedia.” Also, report “Transport in Australia,”
by Sir George Buchanan, obtainable from Federal
Govt. Printer, Canberra T.C.: The Albatross is
a seaplane carrier... .R.F.: N 0... .R.C.W.: (1) The
water is quite unsuitable for irrigation and if used
for any period will make soil sterile. (2) Suitable
for stock ; no extra salt in lick would be required.
(3) Water is rather too hard for making dipping
fluids J.F.W.: If B had a valid claim against A
during the latter’s occupancy of the land —and
this is suggested by the Commissioner’s demand for
a settlement —its validity is not affected by A’s
subsequent forfeiture of the lease. . . .C.AAV.R.:
Maternity allowance is not payable in respect of
a birth occurring outside the Commonwealth....
N.R.F.: Waite is a well-known artist, but his work
does not command high prices... .P. 5.8.: The set
of Spode china fruit-plates would be worth about
nine guineas, or perhaps a little more, if of an
attractive pattern and bearing the early Spode mark
on the back M.M.0.8.: Can’t tell without exami-
nation. Send it to Lvster Ormsby, 235 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney, who will value it for you. It is
probably a memorial coin... .C.A.L.: (1) \es. (2)
An imitation brass half-guinea, of no value
C.M.H.: We are unable to trace the artists referred
to; they are apparently fairly modern and without
seeing the pictures it is impossible to give an
opinion as to their value W.J.M.: Lyster Ormsby,
235 Castlereagh-street, and Miller Stokes, 52
Margaret-street—both of Sydney; and L. Gill, 265
Toorak-road, South Yarra, Melbourne W.C.: From
Craig and Aitken, 654 George-street, Sydney, 12s.
6d A.0.A.: The liability will depend on the
agreement with the share-farmer. Cannot advise
without full details Cairns: (1) There are no
files of the paper in Sydney to test the authenticity
of your copy. Refer it to the British Museum. (2)
Write to the Board of Admiralty, Whitehall, London,
g.W.I A.J.8.: If you gamble, yes; if you don’t
want to risk your capital, decidedly no (Many
others mailed.)


Ferrodor’s
CKallentfe
to
M
r xJ
uaa
Ensures Perfect Protection
for
All Iron, Steel h WoodworK
As a weatherproof Paint, FERRODOR stands alone. It clings
tenaciously to the surface to which it is applied, and it will stand up to
the attacks of sun and rain, heat and cold, salt air and chemicai
fumes, for many years without blistering or cracking.
Cases are on record of a coating of FERRODOR lasting 22 years,
but its average life is from 10 to 12 years. This means a great
saving of expense in re-paintings.
FERRODOR PAINT is used by the following well-known firms
and Government Departments:
N.S.W. Government Railways.
N.S.W. Public Works Department.
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Australian Glass Manufacturers Co., Ltd.
Sulphide Corporation, Ltd.
Silverton Tramway Co., Ltd.
Wallaroo-Mt. Lyell Fertilisers, Ltd.
Cresco Fertiliser*.., Ltd,
Mt. Lyell Chemical Co.
Cuming, Smith & Co.
Tooth & Co., Ltd.
Taronga Park Trust.
If you are interested we will gladly send you a color card and full
information no obligation, of course.
FERRODOR PAINT is nocked in 20 colors in 7V).
and lJilb. tins and in on lb. and 1-civt. steel drums.
It is packed in paste form for greater economy,
since you only mix what you need. It is equally
aood on iron, steel and woodwork, and is ABhU-
LUTELY NON-POISONOVS.
Eight gallons of mixed FERRODOR cover
approximately 713 square yards, at a cost of less
than 2-}d. per yard.
If unobtainable locally, send direct to
WILLIAM APAMS^fCOMPfIWy
SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, BRISBANE, MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, PERTH.
, W
Ztr-s *»«.
q & SONS, New castle
■ ■ CRANE ft so^yiumb^
£"*■«*
G£4 °E w ,*' ;V 4 sos 4 U ‘"' r
J T ’ CTD
■ T -00 VLt , Sr„,s "
*• sobd er ’ Gfel «
, T i?g-
rr -»•
• FBa TE IELd North svw
q Var TLe ’ yd *ey
IiOB *RTSON> LTD " Sarah
*■ °-«o ß Z ßeAca i e «"™‘‘
S °BHO DBrs so ‘ x U».. '" Mn
STE BiA» 0
“*<u* 0v . s -
-? * Co
PRfiIRVIHC
R-STEtL STRU<
row
ON
Pm
iMS»


Roof your House with Tiles
Y7ARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
Economy of Mixing
AN appreciable saving can be made by Graziers, by purchasing
VITA - LICK in the concentrated form.
For this practice, it will be necessary for the salt to be
added and the mixing of Concentrated VITA - LICK and salt
to be carried out on the property.
A complete handbook, giving the fullest instructions, is supplied
with every bag of VITA - LICK.
USE VITA-LICK CONSTANTLY
VITA-LICK LIMITED
Stock Lick Specialists
107 KENT STREET, SYDNEY
PEAPES
clothe men AND their sons.
Write for a copy of PEAPES’
Christmas Gift Catalogue. It
solves the problem of what to
give a man or a boy, and con-
tains a selection of gifts for
ladies, so that men may choose
these in a man’s atmosphere
they understand.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney,,
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CR PARK & CASTLEREAGH
[?]TS SYDNEY
MORE PRIZES FOR FARMERS.
In order to encourage farmers to pass
on to others the fruits of their observa-
tion and experience, “The Bulletin” will
give three prizes for the most helpful
contributions during the six months to
Dec. 31 next.
Points will be awarded fpr every con-
tribution submitted, if thought worthy and
whether printed or not, and two prizes—
the first of £25 and the second of £10 —■
will be given to the winners of most
points.
A special prize of £5 will be given for
the best individual contribution.
Only contributions that are of practical
value to men on the land are asked for;
literary merit is not taken into account, so
long as the meaning is expressed plainly.
The prizes are in addition to the ordi-
nary payments made for all “Bulletin’
contributions.
4
SUPER. ON THE MALLEE LANDS.
“Ailerue”: At the annual Mallee Lands
Conference the representative of the S.A.
Department of Agriculture urged the farmers
to use more super. Tests at Yeitch, Yurgo
and Sandalwood showed, he said, that lcwt.
super, gave 16 bushels wheat per acre, while
2cwt. gave 18 bushels. Allowing that the
extra cwt. makes two bushels difference in
a yield of six bags to the acre, what differ-
ence would it make in a yield of four bags
per acre, which is nearer the Mallee aver-
age? In my Mallee experience (16 years)
the proper quantity of super, varies with
the rainfall. If the rainfall is light, say
under 13in., then anything over about 701 b.
tends to dry the crop off at the first dry
spell or in the early spring. In heavier
rainfall areas the crop may benefit by a
little more super., but anything over lcwt.
per acre does not, in my experience, improve
the crop enough (if at all) to justify the
extra cost of super., without taking into
account the extra handling and heavier pull-
ing of the drill or combine. In the last
several years in the Mallee the sowing of
more than about 801 b. has had the effect
also of ripening the crops off too quickly,
and thus producing less grain per head of
wheat. This is also noticeable in oats and
barley. Lastly, one has to take into con-
sideration the loss in very lean years like
the past two or three, when the average has
been only about four or five bushels.
IMPROVING STABLE MANURE.
“Yeoman”: Fresh stable manure applied
to plants has a negative effect, decreasing
the yield owing to the action of denitrifying
bacteria. It is because of this that manure
is left to heat or decompose in the heap
before being applied to the soil.
Dr. Krantz, a German scientist, has
devised a method that makes farmyard
manure richer. The object of his pro-
cess is to regulate fermentation by. (a)
rendering the insoluble proteins available
for plants; (&) destroying the denitrifying
bacteria, and (c) arresting fermentation
after these two objects have been attained.
As a result of this process the manure keeps
well, does not part with any of its nitrogen,
and supplies to the plants valuable fertilising
substances that are easily assimilated.
The Krantz process is carried out in two
ways—in the heap and in a silo. In the
heap the manure is piled moderately high
without being pressed down. This permits
of rapid fermentation with great rise of
temperature. Later the manure is com-
pressed by piling on fresh manure. This
pressure drives out a considerable portion
of the air, which lessens fermentation. The
pressure is then maintained by continuing
to pile fresh dung upon the old. In this
way the heat of the first layers cannot be
lost and any straw that has escaped fermen-
tation is brought under chemical and bio-
logical influences. The great heat which
persists in the centre of the heap also aids
in promoting thorough fermentation.
A manure silo is best for the purpose,
as fermentation can be more easily regulated.
It can be filled, too. with an elevator.
Krantz has also employed his process for
the preparation or green manures, the
stuff being cut and piled into the silo. The
heat generated destroyed all weed-seeds.
A FAIR DAY’S WORK.
To obtain information on the saving that
may be accomplished by the use of larger
machines, the Canadian Agricultural Depart-
ment lately canvassed the views of 610
representative farmers in the five eastern
provinces of Canada. In a report, just pub-
lished at Ottawa, the information obtained is
given.
In ploughing stubble with a one-furrow
plough cutting a furrow from 9in. to lOin.
wide and drawn by two horses, 1.69 of an
acre constituted a day’s work. Where three
horses were used on a two-furrow plough
the acreage done was 2.96. When the same
plough was drawn by four horses, 3.58 of
an acre was turned, and where a tractor was
used on a three-furrow plough, 7f acres.
In seeding grain with a two-horse drill
9.93 acres constituted the work of a ten-
hour day, whereas with a four-horse drill
14 acres were seeded. In harvesting oats
with a two-horse binder 7.25 acres were
covered, whereas when three horses were
used on a seven-foot binder, 12.54 acres were
put into sheaves.
FODDER FOR DROUGHTY FARMS.
“Glenfield”: Even those of us Mallee
cockies who have made a practice of keeping
that spare stack on the farm, on this occasion,
with three dry years, have found it insuffi-
cient, and many will be helping to enrich
the chaff merchant before next year is ended.
The question is how to lighten the burden.
The first objective will be to sow sufficient
oats to put that spare stack in its place, and
it will be a good investment to sow a second
paddock to oats for grazing. This paddock
should be drilled in February, wet or dry,
so that the crop will come away with the
first rain; the cocky will then be able to
lighten his chaff bill by turning in the horses
at night and week-ends, and if the season
be a good one he will be able to do his
fallowing off it. As to the variety of oats
to sow, I think the Algerian is best; there
are other varieties that give quick growth
earlier, such as Sunrise and Lachlan, but
they can’t stool or stay like the Algerian
for* grazing in the Mallee, especially in a
good season.
POTASH FERTILISER.
“Bananalander”: “Hop Scrub” makes an
attack (B. 30/10/’29) on muriate of potash
and advances a statement, issued (so
he says) by the Vic. Department of Agricul-
ture, to the effect that “potash should not
be applied artificially to a potato crop in
any other form than sulphate.” He also makes
an unsupported statement “that in most in-
stances in Europe and U'.S.A. .where muriate
and sulphate have been used side by side, the
sulphate has almost invariably given a more
pronounced response than the muriate.”
Apparently “Hop Scrub” deduces from this
that cane-farmers in Bananaland should apply
sulphate in place of the muriate now being
used in very large quantities. As against
these opinions and illogical deductions there
stands the solid fact that for more than 10
years past the canegrowers of Mackay and
Bundaberg have used over two tons of muri-
ate for every one of sulphate, and the pro-
portion in favor of muriate is steadily in-
creasing. Again, there is the fact that the
fertiliser trade in Queensland advocates the
use of muriate in all sugar country, and,
if further proof is necessary that muriate is
regarded as being non-injurious and more
profitable to the sugar farmer than the sul-
phate, “Hop Scrub” can easily find it by
referring to the Bureau of Sugar Experi-
ment Stations. This excellent organisation,
financed by levies on the growers' cane and
by the Queensland Government, is conduct-
ing fertiliser trials throughout the sugar
areas with various compounds, the only form
of potash used being muriate.
As to the forms of potash used on the
European Continent, it is found that in
Germany, the largest producer of potash in
the world, the proportion of sulphate to
muriate is approximately 2| per cent, to 97J
per cent. The imports of the two forms into
the U.S.A. are approximately 25 per cent.
sulphate and 75 per cent, muriate. If
muriate of potash is injurious to the soil,
the fact that the countries that produce it
(France and Germany) arc its largest users
must be attributable to post-war madness.
the oversiiorn lamb.
“F.Y.7” : A. F. Barker, Professor of Tex-
tile Industries at Leeds University, has pub-
lished some opinions which incline me to
the belief that his theory is sounder than
his practice. While appreciating the value
of the long fibre, he urges that this might
be in a measure sacrificed for a shorter one.
If sheep were shorn twice a year, or even
four times instead of once as at present in
Australia, the wool would still meet manu-
facturing requirements, and be free of such
disadvantages as the dusty and burry con-
ditions too often obtaining with our clips.
Instead of shearing once a year and taking
off an Sin. growth, say, with a weight of 121 b.
—the estimate is the Professors —the job
would resolve itself into two 4in. or four
2in. shearings during the year.
The Professor has overlooked one or two
factors. One is that the cost of shearing in
Australia under conditions prevailing would
be just the same for taking off a 2in. or
a 4in. fleece as for removing the yearly over-
coat. The cost is high enough now for the
annual shearing without having it doubled
or quadrupled. Further, Australian condi-
tions insist that sheep be shorn for the most
part in cold or comparatively cold weather
if anything further is to be expected of them.
The only alternative would be to keep the
harbored jumbucks out of the fierce summer
sun until they had grown sufficient protec-
tive clothing again, the which, as Euclid
would say, “is absurd.”
ROOT CROPS IN DROUGHTY
WEATHER.
“Hatter”: During the first seven months
of this year the midland districts of England
received only inches of rainfall. Condi-
tions thus approached more nearly than usual
to those of Australia. It was noted that the
pastures suffered most and cereals came
next; the green and root crops (cabbages
excepted) did surprisingly well. A 20-ton
crop of roots is estimated to require 10
inches of penetrating rain—probably 20
inches of actual rain—so that it is remark-
able that the mangolds, kale and suedes,
although the soil was very dry at seeding
time, continued to thrive on merely 8J inches.
It was formerly believed that moisture
ascended by capillary action from a “water
table” in the subsoil. A modern view is
that a water table is exceptional, and that
no appreciable quantity of moisture ascends
by this means; but where the soil is neither
a porous gravel nor objectionably acid (a
condition which is unfavorable to root
development), the roots of plants will pene-
trate in dry seasons much deeper than is
commonly supposed in search of moisture.
One investigator who frequently urges the
importance of ploughing for root crops in
the autumn or winter, thus avoiding any
deep stirring of the soil in the spring, with
the consequent loss of moisture, cites an
instance that supports his view. The farmer
had prepared part of a paddock _in the
autumn and the remainder in the spring. The
whole block of mangolds to the last furrow
on the spring-ploughed portion wilted every
afternoon during July, while the rest of the
crop remained fresh.
In such weather the chief. supply of
humidity is probably by absorption of vapor
from the atmosphere during the night. Re-
search work that has been undertaken in
France points to the fact that this is a regu-
lar phenomenon, quite distinct from dew, and
that the amount of water afforded to plants
equals about lfin. effective rainfall per
month. Roots would naturally benefit more
from this source of humidity than grass, as
the surface soil is more absorbent in a loose
condition.
DOES ROAD PASTURING PAY?
“R. K. Deea”: This question has been
answered most concisely by “John W. Qld”
(B. 16/10/’29), but there are exceptions. In
the dry period of 1925, when sheep-farmers
in all the States were viewing their pad-
docks, waterholes and sheep with concern,
and auctioneers were advertising sheep-sales
in plenty, a grazier at Rye (Vic.) journeyed
in his car to a sheep-sale at Wagga, and,
after buying 1700 head at a low figure, em-
ployed a man to help him drive them home,
pasturing them on the roads.
On the way down (in early October)
heavy rains fell in three States, and as
prices showed a remarkable recovery, he
drove the sheep across to a Shepparton sale,
and netted eight shillings per head clear
profit—all in the space of a few weeks.
Of course, to an extent, he gambled on the
weather, and he could afford to do this,
having a bit of feed at the other end, but
it shows that road pasturing pays sometimes.
THE CABBAGE FLY. .
“Hop Scrub” : To control the cabbage moth,
instead of spraying the plants with lead
arsenate, try a solution of corrosive subli-
mate (mercuric chloride) loz. to lOgal. water.
Start when the plants have been newly set
out in the paddock from seed-beds; pour
around each plant from i pint to 1 pint of
the solution at intervals of 3, 10 and 20
days. A watering-can without the rose will
doj but glass jars are better. Don’t let
the poison come in contact with • the plants.
Of course, you must also clean up the plots
as they are cut out, and destroy all vegetable
refuse.
THE POTATO MOTH.
“R.X.8.”: Wherever potatoes are grown
the potato moth will make its appearance
during summer. The annual loss it causes
is enormous; the injury done to the plants
in the field is considerable, but not as great
as that caused by the grubs when the spuds
have been lifted. Many growers have the
idea that the spud itself is immune from
attack, and that is partly responsible for
the fact that infested potatoes are very com-
mon in all markets. They won’t keep, and
a lot has to be cut to waste if the tuber
isn’t rejected altogether.
The potato moth is a night worker, and
lays its eggs in the foliage usually at the
base of a leaf. The hatched grub burrows
down the stalk. But if the moth can get
right at the tuber it is better pleased, as
it can then lay eggs on the eyes, so that
the hatched grub can burrow in and make
the bad spots.
Cultivating should be thorough, and the
roller and discs should be used to break the
soil down so that hilling can keep the moth
from the tubers. Hilling, in my opinion,
should be done as soon as possible, and be
done again and again if rain or anything
else should break the hilling down. Little
can be gained from hilling if the topsoil is
a mass of clods. When flat cultivation is
practised, plant deeply and keep the topsoil
stirred with the cultivator.
When the spuds are lifted it is a bad
practice to leave bags standing with the
tops covered with the dried haulms. If you
can’t get them in before it is dark, it would
be better to pack the bags together and
cover them with a sheet or tarpaulin.
An excellent way to control the work of
the moth in the field is to use plenty of moth
traps. Any barrel or cask will do, but a
cement cask is best. Smear the inside with
tar or some sticky preparation, and stand
a lighted lamp on the bottom. One to an
acre will catch most of the moths about.
If storage can be had in a tight room or
shed the use of carbon bisulphide is the
best way of protecting the stored spuds.
Use about 51b. of the liquid to every 1000
cubic feet of air, placing it in a shallow
dish and then closing the store. That
should be repeated every 10 days. Open the
door a few hours before entering, and re-
member that the stuff is highly inflammable,
and that no naked lights should be even in
the vicinity.
Trouble and expense will be reflected in
the higher prices you get for clean spuds.
Every buyer fights shy of “bad” and
“wormy” supplies.
GRASSES FOR LOW-LYING LANDS.
“Minthall”: The grass that has leapt
into favor of late is the Poa aquatica, or
water meadow, and many are the swamps
it now flourishes in. Victoria has made
especially good use of it in Gippsland. It
can be sown from seed or by roots, but the
former is rather hard to obtain generally,
owing to harvesting difficulties. It is a
grass of rather coarse nature, but stock
fatten and milk well. It is exceptionally
good in ground liable to fret away.
Next in feed value come some of the
clovers: they are particularly good for soil
renovation, but some are burry and will
attach to the wool. Strawberry clover is
the best for wet ground. Sown in conjunc-
tion with water couch grass it makes a
balanced ration. Soils that are poorly drained
suit alsike clover (Trifolium hybridum),
whilst the lotus major also acts well. Couch
grass stands a great deal of wet and improves
after flooding, and Paspalum dilatatum once
established into swamp ground will flourish
well. It has the ability of building up the
level of the ground, too. If the heavy, coarse
stems are burnt they fall to the ground and
create both a compost and fertiliser. The
broken leaves and the compost, together with
the heavy root system and the high crown
of the plant, help to catch the soil, and so
after a few years the ground level is found
to be higher. Paspalum wants close grazing,
though, else it becomes very coarse.
Still all low-lying lands are tricky, so it
is always well to try a small patch first.
SISAL HEMP.
“Wallaby”: Arrested by the account
penned by “W.P.D.” (B. 18/9/’29) on sisal
hemp culture, I wrote to the Queensland
Government Botanist for particulars. Later
I received a letter from the Assistant Gov-
ernment Botanist with an article on sisal
hemp cultivation by A. J. Boyd (Depart-
ment Agriculture and Stock, Brisbane).
This says:—
it the farmer is too busy with other work to
attend to getting off the sisal crop, it will oblige
him and wait until he is ready without injury to
the fibre; but once the leaves have been cut they
should be put through the machine within 24 hours,
for if this is not done the grower will discover
that even sisal leaves will not await his convenience
once they have been removed from the plant.
From this it will be seen that the grower
would have to treat leaves on the plantation
or some place adjacent to it; 24 hours would
(Continued on page 32.)


-s
A
uj
m
in 'A
littnnmg
I Water
for
Country
Homes
Delco-Ligot
Water Systems
IN its importance to life, water is second only
to air; without it existence is impossible,
and where it is scarce or impure—there
disease finds its chief ally.
The Delco-Light pressure water system has been
designed for the service of dwellers beyond the
reach of communal water supplies. Wherever
current is available, it provides an abundance
of refreshing, cool water at the turn of a tap
always available —always direct from the source
of supply—and at a pressure equal to any city
service.
A modern bathroom and sanitary system are
made possible and the drudgery of washing day
disappears. Away from
the house, the same
Delco-Light water sys-
tem supplies you with
water for stock, for the
dairy, the garden
and the garage.
It is easily in-
stalled, occupies
very little space,
is inexpensive to
purchase and to
run, and, best of
all, requires prac-
tically no atten-
tion.
Model 205
Write for full particulars and illustrated booklet B.
DISTRIBUTORS:
WARBURTON, FRANK!, LTD.—
307-15 Kent Street, Sydney
WARBURTON, FRANK!, LTD.—
380-82 Bourko Street, Melbourne
WARBURTON, FRANK!, LTD.—
233-35 Elizabeth Street, Brisbane
PARSONS & ROBERTSON, LTD.—
172-74 Pulteney Street, Adelaide
STEWART & MACLEAN PTY., LTD.—
104 George Street, Launceston
m ! . | ; *'**'•
m * 1 1 In ,*,.
m
B >m
*wk
November 15, 1929.
A Year of Progress.
“What sort of a year has the City Mutual had, Mr. Crowley?” was the
query put by a representative to Mr. George Crowley, the chairman of the
institution.
“Pretty much the same,” said Mr. Crowley, “pretty much the same.
We never vary greatly. You see many years ago we took into our heads
that the best way to succeed in Life Assurance was not to be too ambitious
to become big quickly not to emulate ‘Get Rich Quick Wallingford.’
“That is the trouble which has overcome the younger societies which
have started during the past 10 or 15 years. They wanted to start where
the City Mutual left off.
“We made up our minds to select the business which was offered and
then retain it by giving a bonus of as large an amount as the Society could
afford, and that kept the policy-holders with us.
“By selecting the business it meant, naturally, that the claims were
light, and it also meant that we had not to pay too much to get the business
which we did get.”
“I understand, Mr. Crowley,” said the representative, “that the sources
of profit in a Life Assurance Institution depend to some extent on the
goodness of the lives selected, and also the limited expense which the initial
business costs. Is that not so?
“There are three factors,” said Mr. Crowley, “three main factors, I
should say, because there are others as well of a minor nature, but the three
main causes of the success of a Life Assurance Institution are: care in the
selection of lives, which means low mortality; economy in connection with
the administration of the business, which means a profit on the loading; and
the third one is a wise investment of the funds of the institution.
“What do you mean by a loading, Mr. Crowley? was the next question
asked.
“It is a technical word,” was Mr. Crowley s reply, but I shall try to
explain it briefly. Supposing that you paid a premium of £4O to assure
your life for £lOOO with bonuses, £3O of that is what they call net premium.
That is the amount which, invested at compound interest at 3-|%, would
yield £lOOO to your family at your death. The other £1 0 is reserved for the
expenses in providing bonuses and in carrying on the affairs of the
institution.”
“But, supposing I died in a week, Mr. Crowley, after paying a premium
of £4O, where would the profit come in? There would be a dead loss of
£960, would there not?”
“Quite so,” said Mr. Crowley, with a smile. But you can take it
from me that, if you assured your life with the City Mutual for £lOOO and
paid £4O premium for the year, the chances are 1000 to 30 that you would
not die in a week, nor in a year, nor in 20 years. Your expectation at 45 is
between 22 and 23 years.”
“What do you mean by my expectation?” was the next question.
“That’s another technical word,” said Mr. Crowley, but not so formidable
when it is explained. The expectation means the average duration of life
of a healthy man now 45 years of age.
“Take 1000 healthy men of 45 years of age to-day. Some will die in
a week, but some will live 30 years and even more. It is the actuary s
business while studying statistics over a period of 100 years and more to
arrive at what is the average duration of life for a healthy man now 45 years
of age, and that is how the premium is calculated.”
“I notice the bonuses of the City Mutual have increased very largely
during recent years,” said the representative. “How do you account for
that?”
“Well, mainly the war,” was Mr. Crowley’s startling reply, “mainly the
war. .
“How on earth could the war mean increased bonuses!” was the astonished
exclamation of the representative. “Why, the war, according to all accounts,
hit you Life Assurance people up dreadfully.
“So it did, for those four terrible years,” was Mr. Crowley’s reply. “And
the plague, the year after the Armistice was worse still, but, surveying
his visitor with a smile, “we did not pay those big bonuses then. It is
only since 1920 that the City Mutual has really led the world in its bonuses.
The simple reason was that rates of interest soared.
“Before the war a good security would yield 4% interest, and now you
can readily get l\ ( '/c interest or more if you want it. _
“Well, just take a schoolboy’s lesson in mental arithmetic 3J% on
five millions of money means no less than £l 75,000 a year, which would go a
long way towards paying a very tidy bonus, would it not?
“But, Mr. Crowley,” was the next question, “these new companies o
which you spoke a few minutes ago, how is it they were not able to take
advantage of the higher rates of interest?
“Well, in most cases,” said Mr. Crowley, “they had no funds to invest.
In many cases, some of their assets consisted of an establishment account
and goodwill running into hundreds of thousands of pounds. But that’s not
an asset. You cannot invest an establishment account. No one would lend
you 5/- on the security of an establishment account, would they now?
Would you?” said Mr. Crowley with a smile, turning to the representative.
“Well, on the other hand, then,” was the next question, “would not an
office with 50 millions instead of 5 millions earn so much more money?
“Yes, perhaps they would,” said Mr. Crowley, “peihaps they would,
but recollect that with a population of six millions of people like Australia has.
50 millions of money under the one control takes a lot of handling, and one
is not so well able to pick and choose securities if the funds are accumulating
so fast that the money must either lie idle in the bank or be put out at low-
bearing rates of interest. The very strength of a 50- or 60-m.llions
institution is often its weakness.
“What’s your general opinion about the future of Australia so far as
Life Assurance is concerned? was the final question.
“I have no fear for the future,” was Mr. Crowley s optimistic reply.
“So far as the City Mutual is concerned, we have been extremely conservative.
We were in that bank trouble in ’93, and the burnt child dreads the fire.
We are undervaluing our assets by hundreds of thousands of pounds, and we
have got over a quarter of a million in reserve as well, so that we are quite
prepared for a temporary setback, if one comes along, which I sincerely trust
will not. But if it does come it will be tided over if the Australian Govern-
ments realise that it is only by consideration of the highest duties of
Australians generally that the country and the Commonwealth will flourish
“CW r more,” was Mr. Crowley’s concluding remark, “will you allow
me to offer to The Bulletin’ readers the City Mutual s Best Wishes for the
coming year


THOUSANDS ACCLAIN
%
(HT 3-DAY, the 1930
1 Buick is more than a
motor car —it is a
topic of conversation. “Have
you seen it?” “Have you
driven it?” “Isn’t it a fine-
looking car!” These and
similar comments are heard
on every hand.
Those people who have
never owned a motor car
are joining with experienced
motorists and Buick enthusi-
asts in admiring Buick’s
new long low slender lines.
Those who have been suc-
cessful in securing demon-
stration drives are even
keener about what Buick
■<
&
m
M
m
x
i m
II
Erf"
W
i.
/XS"
§
,-
V 'A I
F M
!
V/f
[ ZZTV—J
u
X
WM
u
:
O
3
V
m
BUICK.


o
an
d 'Pmliu
tance
us accomplished they are
unstinting in their praise.
Seasoned motorists assert that
hey have never hitherto
:xperienced such brilliance
{ performance.
For this, of course, there
is ample reason. The famous
valve -in - head engine has
jeen retained but it now
produces 80% more power.
To check the speeds so
easily reached, there are new
internal expanding four-wheel
brakes. Men who delight
in mechanical refinements
ivill enjoy going over the
tar among other items,
there are double-acting
hydraulic shock absorbers,
automatic radiator shutters,
and a device to eliminate
road shock at the steering
wheel.
Even in the details of
body construction and finish
it has been found possible
to make improvement. More
room inside—a scientifically
angled windscreen —* merely
two of the aids to riding
and driving comfort which
driver and passenger alike
will find of value.
Small wonder, then, that
Australia has welcomed the
1930 Buick, and has acclaimed
it the year's masterpiece of
beauty and brilliance. Quietly,
yet none the less authorita-
tively, this fine car has
introduced itself. The recep-
tion it has received speaks
no less for its intrinsic merit
and value than for the
instinctive knowledge of a
motor-wise public.
Thus, as dealers are dis-
playing and demonstrating
the finest Buick of them all,
there will long remain in
public thought the memory
of Australia’s ready acceptance
of, and generous tribute
to, this product of General
Motors.
PRICES from <£445
Convenient payments can be arranged on liberal
C.M.A.C. Terms Plan
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR
SERVICE EVERYWHERE
GENERAL MOTORS (Australia)
PTY. LTD.
Brisbane-Sydney-Melbourne-Adelalde—Perth
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER
n
ret


r'A-
xS
Twice average
thickness
A double sole, of the best-
wearing leather obtainable,
ensures greatest durability
under all conditions with this
Abbey boot. Its upper as
well is doubled—having an
inner lining of soft leather that
increases both strength and
comfort.
For all its sturdiness of con-
struction this boot has the
pliancy essential for active
wear. The upper is cut lower
at back of ankle and so fits
more closely. At the lacing it
follows the foot’s natural curve
—accommodating the instep
arch without any strain.
ORDER BY POST.
Narrow, medium and wide fittings
in every size. Specify width and
length, and order, also, a tin of
Abbey Preservative Polish (6d.), or
a compact cleaning outfit (2/6).
TAN WILLOW CALF, 47/6
BLACK BOX CALF, 45/-
New summer sporting catalogue post free on
request.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS:
“ABBEY BOOTS,” Sydney.
FPL 152
INVINCIBLE MARINE MOTORS
The Worlds BesT since 1906
TEN POPULAR MODELS
AN ENGINE
FOR EVERY TYPE OF BOAT
ail spare part’s alurayS available
INVINCIBLE MOTORS LIMITED)
53 North George Sfr. SYDNEY.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorsement. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins ... 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
POST FREE ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins .. 13/6 16/- each
DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Slreet, Sydnev.
Be
A FEW moments
spent in attaching
WEED CHAINS to your
tyres — before trouble
is encountered —will
prevent danger and long
delays on the road.
Weed Chains grip —•
give positive traction
in mud or sand.
Standard of quality for
over a quarter of
a century
so
WEED
TYRE CHAINS
1505
X
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED,
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
CHANDLER’S VERANDAH BLINDS
I
6ft. x Bft.
17/6
9ft. x Bft.
25/6
12ft. x Bft.
32/6
each.
CHANDLER’S VERANDAH BLINDS are made in our own factory under the
supervision of experts who have spent years in perfecting their craft. They
are sent out complete with top batten, heavy bottom roller, single and
double pulley straps, cord and staples.
The special line of blinds quoted above is made only in the 3 sizes, with Bft.
drop, and is obtainable in English White or Green or Brown block striped duck.
Prices of other sizes and qualities will be sent on application together with
samples if desired.
Prices are Free on Rails. Melbourne.
D. & W. CHANDLER LTD.
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY, VICTORIA.
not allow him to harvest, pack, cart to
station and rail leaves to a manufacturer.
Machines are quoted from £5O to £soo—a
stitt price tor a crop which is stated to bear
about one half-ton per acre for the first crop,
ch Promts are quoted as from
-I? i L* pei * ton net. (But it must be
admitted that 2 toils lewt. 221 b. was grown
tt ? ne a , cle a t the Penal Establishment at St.
Helena.)
h rom the letter of the Assistant Botanist
I quote:—
It may interest you to know that practically every
attempt to grow sisal hemp in this State (Queens-
land) on commercial lines has been abandoned. At
Bajool, near Rockhampton, a 40-acre area planted
some years ago, in fairly favorable conditions, was
abandoned.
Also :
Sisal fibre is evidently a payable proposition in
countries where cheap labor is available. Up to the
present it has not proved very profitable under
conditions existing here.
It isn t encouraging. Still I hope somebody
vith m( >re money than I’ve got will try it.
ihey told us very much the same about rice
tor very many years.
LET TPIE PULLET DO HER JOB.
“Jack Point”: It is a mistake to try to
keep a pullet from laying. Various prac-
tices are resorted to by poultrymen with this
o+e 0 + eC j lu v * ew> but the bird’s growth is
retarded to a much greater extent by with-
holding portion of her ration than it would
be it things were allowed to take their
course. Certainly a pullet often does com-
nuaV!' laying' before her frame is developed
sufficiently to enable her to keep it up for
very long, but nearly always this is due to
the fact that she has not been properly
fed.
Early maturity is a great trait for a pul-
let to inherit, and it rests entirely with her
owner whether she will be sufficiently
developed by the time she lays her first egg.
Nothing has been proved more definitely in
poultry breeding than that it is the quick
maturing bird that wins the profit, and' tests
prove time after time that such a bird does
best not only in her first season, but also
in her second and third. If you have quick
maturing birds don’t be afraid to feed them
—the best feed you can possibly buy is
the stuff to give them. If the feed doesn’t
already contain a percentage of cod-liver
oil, give this to them in addition. Plenty
of green-stuff, of course, and the more range
they can have the better.
After the pullets begin to lay they can be
locked up in an intensive house, and, pro-
vided they have been properly fed and cared
for during their growing period, they will
settle down and return you good profits for
two years at least.
There are two things to remember in breed-
ing early-producing pullets. First, get the
right strain; pullets inherit early maturity
and you can’t get the right sort from the
wrong sort of parents. Second, there is a
period during which you are going to receive
no return for ycur outlay: and provided you
have the right birds, it rests entirely with
yourself whether this period is long or short.
PACKING APPLES
“Five Crown”: Oiled wraps (B. 18/9/’29)
give good results with Rome Beauty and
Granny Smith, which are liable to “scald,”
a surface blemish that sometimes arises
during storage. The scald is due to a
volatile substance that these apples give off.
It was found that oil absorbed this substance
and prevented the injury. Hence the oiled
wraps. But since these wraps arc not 100
per cent, effective and do not stop moulds
or other diseases, the apples must be
examined again and re-wrapped before sale.
This loses the method any widespread use.
Thorough ventilation is also a preven-
tive. If cold stores are opened to the out-
side air for 20-30 minutes in early morning
throughout winter, good ventilation is
effected without loss of cold.
“Jonathan scald” is quite distinct from
the above type and the cause is not known.
The flesh as well as the skin is involved.
It does not occur above 34 deg. F., so the
remedy is obvious. Oiled wraps are quite
useless against it.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
In preparing sheep for shoiv purposes,
what points are of most importance as
regards the sheep and its fleece?— 32sB.
Mr. W. R. Raleigh, who for the last 25
years has been judging merinos for the
Royal Agricultural Society of N.S.W.,
writes: The sheep should have an open face,
not wool blink, but with good top-knot; three
open folds on neck, but no cross wrinkles;
broad shoulders, not wedge shaped: straight
broad back, and straight down from tail;
hind legs wide apart, not turkey hocked;
well-sprung ribs and broad chest; feet well
shaped and sound; horns thick and well
corrugated, which shows masculinity. Flat
thin horns show the opposite. The fleece
should be dense—about staple for 12
months’ growth, showing an even crimp in
the wool from tip to bottom of staple, and
this should apply right through the fleece,
including belly wool and on the thighs, with
no cross fibres. The folds are put on a
sheep to create more space for wool, not for
hair, wdiieli is often present.
My young cow, milking on its first calf,
has a stiffness in the hind legs not unlike
stringhalt in horses. After standing for
any time it has great difficulty in getting its
hind legs to function, Are cattle affected
by stringhalt? If not what is the trouble? —
3416.
Cattle are not affected with the true type
of stringhalt as found in horses. One of
several conditions in the animal may produce
the symptoms described. Consult the local
inspector of stock, who would examine the
animal and advise as to cause and treatment. .
How to dynamite soil for citrus fruit trees?
—3190.
A charge of half a plug of gelignite or 3
charges of A-plug each placed about 2ft.
deep around where a tree is to be planted
will fracture a deep light dry soil well. Such
soil, however, rarely inquires such treat-
ment. In heavier soils blasting frequently
makes a hole with very compacted sides,
which later form a trap for water and induce
root decay. A good deep ploughing of the
land is a bettor practice, particularly if a
subsoil plough can be used to break up any
hard pan soil formation.
(1) Names of successful passion-fruit
growers in N.S.W., who might pass on use-
ful information to a beginner? (2) What
acreage would be required to give a person a
decent living? (3) Cost of bringing vines to
the stage of bearing? —3o74.
(1) J. Hunter, Somersby, Gosford; G. M.
Buchanan. Coopernook : T. Mobbs, Moorland.
(21 Depends on your idea of a decent living.
You can reckon on an average annual return
of about £4O per acre, with capable culti-
vation. (3) About £25 per acre, but grower
could save some of that by doing his own
labor.
(1) Are English ex-soldiers eligible to
select fruit farms at Young {N.B.W.)? (2)
Is there a deposit required, and how much?
(3) Will the Repatriation Department give
assistance? (4) Could a man without ex-
perience, not afraid of work, make good? —
3227.
(1) Yes, they are open for general selec-
tion. (2) Six or 6£ per cent, of the capital
value of the block applied for. (3) Not
unless applicant resided in Australia prior
to enlistment. (41 It is doubtful if the
local Land Board will allot an orchard block
to an applicant without experience in that:
Branch, unless he is in a position to employ
experienced labor.
llow can I raise cherry seedlings from a
seedling tree? —3231.
The stones of matured cherries are stored
by placing them in sand until July; they
are then sown in rows from lin. to lMn.
deep, in good, deep soil. The following
January the seedlings should be large enough
to bud over to the variety required. Get in
touch with Vic. Agricultural Department
for further information.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Bill R.”: When fleas invade the coats
or kennels of the dogs, dissolve a loz. block
of camphor in a pint of turpentine and
liberally sprinkle the kennel floor with the
mixture.
“Bullswool”: For netting going under
ground, dip the end to be earthed in a drum
of hot tar, and then unroll. You’ve got to
be slick, however. But it’s worth while if
you want the galvanising to last.
“Stableman”: For horses suffering from
slight corns, remove a small portion of the
bruised horn, and proper seating of the heel
of the shoe may prove sufficient. For more
serious corns poultice and soak the bruised
horn in hot water; if matter has formed,
open up to allow free drainage and treat
antiseptically.
“Homby” : To save a dog that has swal-
lowed a strychnine bait, get a small cake
of camphor (about loz.), grind to a fine
powder and pour down the throat through a
paper funnel (the dog being gagged). It
induces instantaneous and very violent vomit-
ing. After administering, the dog should be
tied up for an hour away from water.
“Awani”: Beware of rats in the poultry
yard! I recently had a clutch of ducks, and,
a storm threatening in the evening, I put
the brood into an old hut so that they’d
spend a dry night. About an hour later
I had occasion to return and noticed that the
family was disturbed. In a corner, among
some bags and boxes, a couple of house rats
had two ducklings half eaten.
“Minthall”: Sour soil is responsible for
half the bad crops on new farms. Judicious
use of agricultural lime is the first step
towards remedying it, and shallow drains will
help. Until the soil is good, plant oats ; the
humble spud, too, will try to make a do in
such ground, though don’t expect a bumper
yield. A green manure sowing will increase
the fertility and humus, opening and sweeten-
ing the ground. Such soils want all the cul-
tivation they can get, because that means air
and sun.
“Yeoman”: Milk from a freshly-calved
cow should not be used for the first five days
at least. This milk, known as the colos-
trum or beestings, contains an abnormal
percentage of albumen. There is no advant-
age in separating it, because the fat content
is very low. Moreover, the albumen rapidly
decomposes, affecting both the cream with
which it is mixed and the butter. Neither
will last long. The milk generally becomes
normal on the fifth or sixth day after calving.
A simple test to determine whether it is fit
to use is to heat the milk to 160 degrees
Fahr.: if it does not thicken it may be put
through the separator.
“Hayband”: A petrol-tin can be turned
into an efficient blowfly trap for sixpence.
Remove the lid, cut a hole 4in. in diameter
in a piece of gauze big enough to overlap
2in. all round, and fit it on. In the hole place
a funnel about 4in. deep and with an open-
ing at the small end barely the size of a
threepenny piece. Stand upright, pour in
about 2 quarts of water, and add a piece of
meat or half a freshly skinned rabbit. Add
water and meat to the smellful mass about
every 10 days. See the gauze fits well at the
sides, as that is where the trapped flies try
to escape. A three-months’ catch on a
Riverina station was estimated at 100,000.
Half would be females, each capable of 100
eggs. The tins last longer if painted inside
and out.
“Sulphur”: The boys’ and girls’ agricul-
tural club movement in Maoriland has pro-
duced some great results. Dominion honors
this year (a Cup award) went to Dudley
Tayles, of East Gore, who took potatoes at
the rate of 311 tons to the acre off a plot
II yards square. H'e grew Arran Chief;
one haulm measured 6ft. 3iin. At current
values the crop was worth £156 an acre.
George Loving, of South Taranaki, who
specialised in mangolds, got a return equal
to 181 tons scwt. worth £135 15s. per acre:
he took second prize.
“Deejay”: In -the Campbclltown district
(N.S.W.) there are the remnants of many
old homes, ,and nearly every one is marked
by a few ancient trees which still bear good
crops. Near me is a fig-tree that is credited
with over 90 years: initials have been cut
all over the trunk by picnickers, but despite
that and droughts it bears three grand crops
annually. An old clump of mulberries at
Denham Court bear the tastiest berries.
Near Camden there is the wreck of an old
home where lemons grow on trees of fairy-
tale size. Pears are also frequent in these
long-deserted places.


PAINFUL POEMS
Old George and I were thoroughly
Wrapped up in one another,
He was extremely fond of me,
I loved him like a brother:
73
\
(S=£&=».
U” lt 3«4S«-
But a lion caught him unaware
While resting in a nullah
So after all I need not share
That last box of ABDULLA.
—Fougasse
SUPERB (Tgarettes
VIRGINIA TURKISH EGYPTIAN
Contrast FLYI Nl G
With road travel With rail Travel,
In a Moth you can start on any journey, of any
length, at any moment, and fly to your destina-
tion at a speed of 80 to I I 0 miles an hour. You
can land in any reasonably level paddock, fill
up with petrol and oil at any garage, tether the
plane in the open where you like, or house
it in any I Oft. wide shed.
Instead of jolting and swaying, you glide with
the smoothest motion known to man.
For the sake of this remarkable convenience,
coupled with the known safety and economy of
the de Havilland Moth, numerous country and
city men and women have already become Moth
owners. There are more de Havilland Moths
in Australia than all other light ’planes put
together. The Moth is the only light ’plane with
a Commonwealth-wide Service Organisation.
The facts about light-’plane ownership are made
clear in a recently produced 1 6-page booklet,
“Flying One’s Own ’Plane.” A copy will be
sent post free on request to interested inquirers.
H.R.H. the Prince of Wales and
Her Excellency Lady Somers have
recently purchased de Havilland Moths.
All the Awards in the Sydney-Perth Air Race were secured
by de Havilland machines.
THE DE HAVILLAND AIRCRAFT PTY., LTD.,
WHITEMAN STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE, 5.C.5.
DEALERS:
“Qantas” Ltd., BRISBANE and LONGREACH, QUEENS-
LAND ; Macßobertson Miller Aviation Co., Ltd., ADELAIDE,
S.A.; Lee and Chisholm Bros. Motors, SWAN HILL,
VICTORIA ; Matthews Aviation Pty., Ltd., Box 1860 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
GIPSY MOTH
2-seater, with dual control, and with
steel body specially constructed for
Australian conditions.
EASY HANDLING. —No hangar is necessary.
One person can handle the machine on the
ground alone and take off alone. Span with
wings folded, 9ft. lOin. Span with wings
open, 30ft. Length, 23ft. llin. ; height,
Bft. 94in.
ENGINE.— De Havilland “Gipsy,” 85-100-h.p. ;
petrol consumption (ordinary motor spirit),
about 20 m.p.g. ; oil consumption (ordinary
motor oil), 1000-1500 m.p.g.
SPEED. —Cruising' speed 80-90 m.p.h., top
speed over 100 m.p.h. (Holder of World’s
Speed Record for 2-seater light aeroplanes,
119.8 m.p.h.)
GET OFF and LA N DIN G. —Run of 80-110
yards on taking off. Run of 100-130 yards
on landing.
R .1 N (l E .—With normal tankage, 300 miles
without refuelling. Additional tankage can
he fitted.
PRICE, £B2s.— Ready to fly, with full equip-
ment, registration and Government Certificate
of Airworthiness.
re
Gips/i Sloth with wings folded.
5 r
• i, ■
It;
*
a
*
n
cc
I
■
i;, mm si
i
M 2.


■v
&
V
c°
Telegraphic, Cable and Wireless Address
“Avstraotel, Sydney
Never take it for granted
that “The Australia’’ is
full, or listen to people
who say “it’s no use apply-
ing—they’re sure to be
booked-up.”
On the contrary, our accommodation
is equal to practically all demands
placed upon it. Should we be fully
booked when you apply, we will
gladly arrange the next best avail-
able accommodation.
SMOKE-OH!
Liquor is the publican’s living; with a
lot of other people it is also meet and drink.
“Prom the spendthrift he had been when he
had money Casey became a miser.” —News.
It’s the old story—circumstances alter
Caseys.
# V
“More and more Sydneyites are joining the Cre-
mation Society.”
And very sensible of them if they want a
well-urned rest.
* *
“Wrote Drinking Songs.”
The .spot bard.
* *
Crowned heads, some say, uneasy rest.
To me the thing seems twaddle.
What girl's head ever was distressed
Crowned with a Paris model?
BRINGING UP A MODERN MA.
"Your mother’s always full of beans!”
“Yes, I don’t know what to do with her — she’s at that awkward
age!”
“He had a sepft spot for all women,” — Sunday Sun.
Kept the hard spots for his men friends,
of course.
UNDERPAID.
He made his song, a simple little ditty,
Avid yet a masterpiece, all said and done.
’Twas full of human pathos. Ah, the pity!
He made his song—and then it went for
one I
BOBBY’S STERLING QUALITY.
HILMA: “There is something about Bobby that I like.”
VILAM: “Yes, and I suppose you’re hoping he’ll spend a good deal of it on you."
“The discoverer of a new drug claims that a man
under its influence cannot avoid speaking the truth.”
It isn’t new. Estate-agents have been
taking it secretly for years.
MEETING THE FAMILY.
When ycr bring ycr girl to tea,
’Oio they criticise!
Wanter know ’er pedigree,
If she paints or dyes.
Ma, it’s clear, can’t understand
’Ow she got yer caught;
Bill thinks, as ’e shakes ’er ’and,
“ Cripes! What’s this ’e’s brought!”
Sister gives a glassy stare,
Thinks ’er does look shabby—
’Ow they all ’er looks compare,
When they meet ycr tabby.
I’ve a feelin’ far from game,
And an anxious dome —
Will ’er fam’ly do the same
When SHE takes ME ’ome?
DORIC.
ANSWERED.
Far from the haunts of men I had wandered,
And deep in the primal bush I pondered
On the mystery of life so old and weary.
And I prayed of Nature to solve my query.
And, lo! in the depths of that darkling land
The answer blazed from a hoarding grand:
“Buck up when you’re worried, and don’t
give in —■
What yon need is a flask of Gulper’s Gin!”
D. McM.
THE FLAPPER ’PHONES.
“Hullo ! That you, Dulcie? Marie speak-
ing! Got the seats? ‘Flaming Wives’ did
you say? How perfectly gorge, my dear!
I'm just throbbing to see it. When do we
meet? How about Monday? Oh, no—that’s
my manicure day. We’ll make it Tuesday,
then—Tuesday outside Boneses ! Goodo !
Oh, I forgot. Tuesday I’ve got a hair-wave.
What about Wednesday? Righto—Wednes-
day. What time? Half-past two? Too
early? Well, three sharp, at Blank’s cor-
ner! Quite sure that’s all right? ’Cause I
can just as easily do Thursday. Right-o!
Thursday at half-past three —I’ll put it
down in my diary. Yes, I’ll wear mine. Before
I forget: did you hear the one about Bobby
and his wife? There’s such a nasty-looking
man outside the telephone-box. Wonder
what he’s annoyed about? Listen to the one
about 80bby.... I said his wife, dear, not
his life. You’ve missed the whole point.
The man outside’s quite purple now. Most
peculiar. All right, Wednesday outside
Brown’s. What? I can’t hear you! Yes,
I’ll be there on Thursday. Hullo! We’re
cut off. Damn! Hullo! Hullo”
Entry in Diary: Meet Dulcie outside
Boneses, Tuesday—4 p.m.
DORIC.
IN MEMORIAM.
Here lies the body
Of Orfen Tight.
He waved Scorch on,
Then turned to the right.
# *
So very well turned out he was.
And yet, we own it sadly,
We used to cut him dead because
He turned out very badly.
R.
TN 19??
I took the parachute from its rack in my
office on the 120th floor, and floated down to
Macquarie-street where I hangar my ’plane.
I was dazzled as usual by the flashing signs
of the once-prosperous surgeons who fawned
on me, whining that they were now allowing
18s. in the £ discount on major operations.
Rhinoceros, ele-
phant and whale
glands in tabloid
form have indeed
brought them low.
In the hangar I
agreed readily with
the basi c-wage-
earners, who have
to use motor-cars,
that a fifth widen-
ing of the Harbor
Bridge was essen-
tial. People call
me old-fashioned,
but this indicates
that in some direc-
tions I am as pro-
gressive as anyone.
I am no brag-
gart, but may men-
tion that I was
one of the first to
back “Milermin-
riit,” the new in-
vention for sinking
mine-shafts. It was
this invaluable con-
trivance which en-
abled the infernal
regions to be pene-
trated and led to
an immense in-
c r ease in the
world’s mineral
wealth, and the
eventual floating
of the mammoth U.
S. Standard Sul-
phur Trust, with
the Devil as presi-
dent. Need I say
more?
Reaching home I
noticed that my
wife had her thighs painted blue, indicating
that she was going out for the evening.
Food tablets were set for two only.
“Where are the boys?” I demanded.
. “John took your little Morris ’plane. He’s
dining out at Cairns. George has the Rolls.
He’s playing bridge at Capetown.”
“And I see you’re off somewhere, too.”
“Theatre Royal, Darwin. There’s a new
revue on there. All the fashions from 1921)
to now. What dear little prudes the girls
were then with their”——
“At least the girls in 192.9 dressed with
a sense of modesty and decency.”
“Really, dear, you’re too behind the times
for words.”
“If you’d only wear a hat, or a pair ot
shoes!”
With a silvery laugh the naked figure of
my helpmeet floated through the door. “Don’t
wait up,” she cried. “I may go on to Cen-
tral Africa.”
Left to myself I mused on the old days
when real horses ran in the Melbourne Cup
instead of these clockwork things, and when
Test cricketers were born, and not made to
order in Japanese munition factories. I
looked round for a book. I wanted something
pure, uplifting, religious. Nothing modern
would do. The modern works were too
obscene. At last I found what I was after.
One of those books, as the poet says, “for
virgins and boys.” I settled down happily
for the evening with “All Quiet on the
Western Front.”
R.X.B.
THEME-SONG RECIPE.
Take a “baby,” rhyme with “maybe,”
Place her “ ’neath a silv’ry moon,”
Add “I love you,” “skies above you,”
And “one lovely night in June.”
Say you’re “yearning,” “my heart’s burning
Till the day we’ll meet once more,”
Hope she’ll “sorrow on the morrow”
Mid “the roses ’round the door.”
Brag in “mother” (“ There’s no other”),
Pinch a tune you’ve heard before.
Make it mawky for the Talkie—
You’ll have buyers by'the score.
DORIC.
EVERYBODY SATISFIED.
He hated, her for her expensive hats;
She didn’t like the way in which he ate.
They had a row and lived in sep’rate pats,
Then got divorced. The neighbors called
it Fate.
He met a girl who ate his bank-roll through.
And left him broke; she let her fancy rove.
Wedded a man who clouts her black and
blue,
And sticks to him. The neighbors call it
Love.
Many thirst after Fame, we know,
And more thirst after Mammon.
But this applies to high and low —
They all thirst after salmon.
TRAPTED!
Hatching the flying Bulet in his Hand,
Bernard Bestwon Flung it back Scornfully
into Sir Malapert Mullagatawny’s Teeth.
Then, with a Swift Flick of his Stockwhip,
he severed the Miscreant’s Hand at the Rise.
“Curses!” howelled the Night Shaking the
Maimed Member. “I shall be Revenged on
you Yet.”
With a Larf of Scorn Bernard cracked his
Whip (for, when interrupted, he was Drov-
ing a Mob of Cattel). The Lowing Ivine
wownd Softly O'er the Lee.
Little did the honest, Noble-hearted Yowth
realise the Black Malice within the Nite’s
pergured Bresst. Little did he know that
Sir Malapert had stolen his Farther’s sta-
tion by a Forged Mortgage, and intended
to Accuse him of Cattel-steeling and
Attempted Murder, as well as Robbing Him
of Mary Murphy, his Girl. Yet so, alars, it
AVas.
We now Find Bernard with Every Alan’s
Hand Against Him. He went about Slm-
ting Polismen with a Sang Fraud wich en-
deered him to the Harts of the Peeple, and
lived Meenwile in a Secret Cave, and
dreamed of the Day when he Wood Vinder-
cate himself and Alarry the Fare Alary
Murphy.
And ever in the Bakground lerked Sir
Alalapert.
Came the Day when the Nite found a
Black Trapper, Vile enuff to be Bribed with
Rum to Trace Our Hero. The follerin’ even-
ing Bernard Having Corralled his Steed,
proceeded litehcartedly as usual to Lower
himself to his Cave. Harf-way down he
Reelised that His Place of Refuge was a
Roring Furnace. Looking up he saw tne
Leering Eyes of the Base Sir Malapert which
had a Nife in its Hand, ready to Cut tne
Rope. At the same time Soldiers and 1 < mis
hidden in the Aposing Cliff Opened Fire.
He was Trapted !
It was a Fite at which the Stoutest Hart
Mite have Quayled. Not so Our Hero s.
Hardly had he Tutched Erth than the Fite
was on. From one End of the Valley to
the Other he Fort
Madly, only to be Over-
powered at Larst by
Wate of Numbers.
“Hang Him,” rored
Sir Malapert. The
Rope was Fastened on
the Gallunt Lad’s
Neck. And now a
Kangaroo might have
been seen Hopping
towards the Gathur-
ing. “Hold,” cried the
Kangaroo.
Orl turned with Amazement, as well they
Mite. But the Kangaroo, Casting aside its
skin, Revealed none other but the Noble
Mean and Stern but Ivinedly Blew Eyes of
Guvenor Mackquarrie!
“Hold!” he cried again. “This man is
innercent! Disguysed as a Kangaroo I
stood near and Watchlied the Incerdent when
this Base Rascal, who tried to Commit
Murder, Burst his hand. As fine a Per-
formans,” he added Turning with a Bow
to Our Hero, “as Ever I seen on the Tivoli
Stage.
“I have Hear the Hand,” he continued,
becoming Stern ounce More. “See, Hear,
too, is the Forged Mortgage by which Sir
Malapert Obtained Possession of the Estate
of Bernard Bestwon’s Respected late Father.
The finger-prints Shew that Sir Malapert
Mullagatawny did the Dastard Dede!”
The Villin turned pail.
"Still Bestwon is a Murderer,” he cried.
“He has Shot Polismen !”
“Only in the Desprit Necessary of Lusing
his Own Life, Induced by your Villiny!”
thundered Mackquarrie. “Even soe, he is an
M.L.A. His Popularity as a Bushranger has
Earned him Election, even though you, Sir
Malapert Mullagatawny, used Sliding Ballet
Boxes and Burnt the Ballet Papers. And
IF SHE WOULD BE SO KIND.
EXASPERATED HUSBAND: “And PLEAND don’t
call me Gus any more! Call me Gas:
you’re always stepping on me!”
a Member of Parliament can do What Other
Men cannot.”
With a Wild Screme Sir Malapert twisted
Bernard’s Rope round his neck, and jumping
over the Cliff, Lawnehed himself into
Eternity.
At the same moment Mary Murphy, Who
had been Concealed Behind an Ajacent Rock,
fell with a Glad Cry into Our Hero’s arms.
HAMER, JUNIOR.


m
?///,
&
T
8
///
H
/:
&*>
%
/
V'
k
m
s
&
s
u
u
\'
\\
A
DEWA'
DEWAfI
DEWAR
DEWAR 5
DEWAR'S S
DEWAR'S DE
DEWAR'S DEWA
A R ’ S DE W A R' S I) E W A R ’ S
vAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
A R * S DEWAR'S' 1) E W A R'S
feWAR'S DEWAR'S DE WAR’S
t)EWAR’S DEWAR’S DE WAR'S
'SD E W A R'S DEWA R’ S DEW A R' S
WAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWA R'S
DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWME S DEWAR’S
DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWA R'S DEWAE’SDEWAR’SDEWIE/S DEWAWb
R
E
E
A
DE
S D
S
DE WAR' S ME WAR'S DEWA R’ S
D R' S DEWA R’S
E WAR'S DEWAR'S
*AR'S DEWAR'S
’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S
S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S
E WAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S
WAR'S DEWAR’S DE WAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S
iR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S
DE WAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DE WAR'S DEWAR’S
DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEW
DE WAR'S DEWAR'S DE WAR'S DEWAR’S DEE,
DEWAR'S DEWAR’S-DE WAR’S DEWAR’S DE
DEW#R*S
DEWAR'
DEWA
DEWA
DEW
DEW
DEW
A
AR'
S
A
D
AR
R
R
DEWARbs DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S
DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DE WAR'S
DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S
DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S
DEWA R'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S
DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S
DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S
DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR
DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWARS
DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S
DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DjS WAR'S DEWAR’S
DEWAR'S DE WAR'S DE WAR’S DEWAR
;r'
5
DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWA
DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWA
DE WAR'S DEWAR’S DEWA
DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DE WA
DEWAR"S DEWAR’S DEWA
DEWAR'S DE WAR’S DEW
D
S D
■V
E,
AR
AR
R'S DEWAR'S
R'S DEWAR'S
A-R’S DEWAR’S
WAR’S DEWAR'S DEWA R'S
WAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S
EWAE'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S
_ DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S
DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S'
gEWAR; S gEWA:R’ S:
DEWAR’S BE WAR'S I)i WAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S bi'WAR'S
DE WAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S PEWAR’S DEWAR’S BEWARES DEWAR;"’
DEWAR’S DEWAiTOiIMft I DEWAR'S DEWAR’S
DEWAR'S DEWARIeBewSk’S imWAlfc PimiPS DEWAR'S DEWAR'S
DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S
DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S
DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S
DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S DEWAR'S DEWAR'S DEWAR’S DEWAR’S


For a perfect
summer holiday
“A Thousand
Things to See and
Dor
THERMAL MARVELS
Rotorua
LAKES AND FIORDS
Taupo
Matiapouri
Waikaremoana
Milford Sound
Dusky Sound
MOUNTAIN GRANDEUR
Mount Cook
Mount Egmont
Tasman Glacier
Franz Joseph Glacier
Tongariro Park
TOURING, CAMPING
GOLF, SWIMMING,
SAILING, FISHING,
SHOOTING
YOURSELF
HERE
Showing Mitre Peak, the guardian of
Milford Sounds , New Zealand's mar*
veilous Fiordland. This is typical of
the g'orious contrasts of majestic
mountain a d peaceful waters that
abound throughout New Zealand .
New Sights
Complete Change
just a few days away
Here are some facts about that New Zealand trip you
always thought of taking :
To reach New Zealand from Sydney there is a regular
weekly service to either Wellington or Auckland, and
there is also a regular service between Melbourne and
The Bluff, and Melbourne and Wellington.
In New Zealand the State Railways, traversing the
North and South Islands, offer comfortable travelling at
very reasonable charges. Excursion tickets are issued at
the following rates :
(a) Available over the lines of both Islands for seven
weeks from date of issue —First £l6-5-0. Second
£l3.
(b) Available over North Island lines, four weeks.
First £lO. Second £7-IC. .
(c) Available over South Island lines, four weeks—First
£lO. Second £7-10-0.
The Dominion’s annual sunshine average, exceeding
2,030 hours, is about equal to Italy’s. Make your plans
now to visit this land of astonishing contrasts—to treat
yourself to a holiday that will give you a complete
change, without a single day of dulling monotony.
7ku>2&-
Full details and information may be obtained from tike :
MELBOURNE:- Mr. H. J. Manson, Dominion Chambers, 59 William at.
SYDNEY: - Mr. W. R. Blow, London Bank Chambers, 20 Martin Place.
BRISBANE: Mr. T. E. Dewar, King House, Queen Street.
ADEL AIDE: -Mr. Victor H. Ryan, Director of S. Australia Tourist Bureau
PERTH: Mr. A. S. McClintock, Queen s Buildings, 285 Murray Street
And the offices of Messrs. Thos. Cook & Son & The Union Steamship Co.
jyu A..J, I
0| pCWCTUAiify
RS
A
I
f
mm
mm
mm
Wmmm
sag
m
m
ML,,
Ht) m
SBa&sa
I
m
■
With a "CYMA” watch punctuality
is never an effort —it becomes a habit
—because a "CYMA” is on time all
the time.
These days when “time is life” was
never more applicable to every-day
affairs, men and women expect
punctuality in both business and
social life.
A "CYMA” watch is a necessity. It imparts to
its wearer that self-confidence of one who is
always on time —and more than that, a
"CYMA” watch is guaranteed by its designers
as a timepiece which master-makers look upon
as the criterion of the horological art. Also, ail
"CYMA” parts are interchangeable, and re-
pairs in case of accident can be effected with
the minimum of delay.
As a gift or as a piece of personal jewellery,
a "CYMA” is always correct.
At all good Jewellers,
QlbrlcL Qamoils'
CYMA
WATCH E S
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER*
who will quote you price for the original
o
V
FOR 87 YEARS
“The Examiner” has been the trusted Friend of the Family
in Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in
Tasmania, and is still the Family Newspaper.
full information, copies, advertising rates
Obtainable from
W. R.
ROLPH & SONS,
Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
LAUNOESTON.
MR. V. W. MARGETTS,
122 Flinders Street,
MELBOURNE.
MR. W. G. DOUGAN,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.


IF I
lllSNift
MAGNAVOX
IT ISN’T A
L DYNAMIC
wSmm
“Your Radio pleasure depends
on the Speaker.”
Moderately Priced
Unequalled in Tone
Demonstration will Convince You.
Obtainable All Radio Dealers
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL STATES.
n
Cruising to
JAVA and
SUMATRA
First-elans' round fare to Belawan
Deli (Sumatra), calling at Java ports,
Singapore and Penang: From Brisbane
and Sydney, £99; from Melbourne,
£lO5.
The K.P.M. invites you to wonder and wander in Java and
Sumatra, islands of exotic attractions.
Glorious days at sea, the comforts and conveniences of the
great Liners Nieuw Holland and Nieuw Zeeland will be a
delightful holiday for you.
The steamer is your hotel for the round voyage of seven weeks.
Full ’particulars from
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY
(K.P.M. Line),
255 George Street, Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., 11l William Street, Melbourne; Dalgety & Co., Brisbane;
Elder, Smith & Co., Adelaide and Perth.
*9
FOR
■SWAN”
PENS
I
AND
ALL
PENS.
tre
• <3?
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Quiet —Restful —Cool—Open to the Summer Sea Breezes. With Private Beach and Amphitheatre
Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds and Garage
Accommodation.
Tariff from guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip ‘rom City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations; Y 3012 (4 lines).
Pen and Picture
THE STATE
THEATRES
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Shadow Shows
“The Cock-Eyed World” (Fox) has been
getting rar more attention than it deserves.
Virtuous gentlemen have been giving the news-
papers fragments of innuendo more sugges-
tive and juicy than anything in the film,
groaning at the same time about the degen-
eracy that is sure to follow such a deplorable
exhibition. A cock-eyed world, indeed!
The challengeable features of the film
spring from
scenes in which
a portion of
the Yank
army is saying
its farewells
after a so-
journ in Rus-
sia. There are
the inevitable
female liaisons,
and some sor-
di d , though
anything but
s u g g e' stive,
scenes in
brothels. They
are as com-
monplace and
as true as the
mud in a gut-
ter. There is
nothing what-
ever to com-
pare with the
filthy horrible-
ness of many
a book that
LILY DAMITA.
has free circulation, including “All Quiet
on the Western Front,” and the dialogue
of such stage plays as “The Front Page”
makes the words in this screen effort
as bloodless as a fasting vampire. It is so
ordinary that it ought to be dull to
anyone who has looked over the fence
of a suburban back yard. Yet, when present
Showman saw the picture at Sydney Royal
on a week-day afternoon, a packed house
was laughing to the rafters. Echo proved
inadequate to the hilarity that sprang from
such quips as: “My ancestors go back to
George III.” “That’s nothin’. I can trace
mine back to July 4.” Or, “That’s the
‘Wishing Song.’ ” “Well, I wish you wouldn’t
sing it.” Ha, ha, ha! The picture is worth
while for one thing—the sincere and arrest-
ing acting of Victor McLaglen. Always
good, he lias rarely done better. The lady
of importance is Lily Damita.
There is only one thing that prevents the
plot of “Pleasure Crazed” (Fox Movie-
tone) being eaten by the moths. It gets
removed from its pigeon-hole so often. It
concerns the innocent chee-ild who takes
up with a gang of crooks, miraculously pre-
serving her virtue the while. The crooks
meditate a raid on the Spanish mission-
house inhabited by the nice young fellow
who does not get on well with his wife.
After some exciting adventures in luxurious
surroundings and a visit to a polo match,
wedding bells are heard faintly ringing in
the distance, the hero having divorced his
wife, and the girl the 1 crooks. The bromide
is, as usual, extraordinary well served. The
polo pictures are extremely well done, the
voice of Kenneth McKenna, the hero, is a
comfort to listen to, and Marguerite
Churchill gives the impression that she
actually believes in the story herself.
Admirers of Ruth Chatterton who might
be lured along to look when she is starred
in the ads. for “The Dummy” (Para-
mount) will find that she has no greater
part to play than to wail on and off for
her chee-ild, kidnapped, she suspects, by her
husband, who neglects her. The secret ser-
vice fixes suspicion with unusual celerity
upon a gang led by a low-down skunk named
Cooper, and, in the interests of motion-pic-
ture justice, has a slum Arab, who is sup-
posed to be deaf and dumb, also kidnapped
by the gang, in whose mountain retreat the
slum Arab,- sleeping off a feast of ice-creams
and hot-dogs, babbles in his dreams, which
knocks the lid in on his alleged dumbness,
and wakes the gang up to the hoax. The
slum youngster, of course, grabs the revol-
ver generously left lying about for his bene-
fit, holds up the gang, and eventually cap-
tures the leader, winning thereby a detective
medal and a mere 10,000dol. Rather crude
fare, but owners of suburban theatres would
be wise to knock an extra six-inch nail or
two in the roof before they let the matinee
youngsters in to see it.
Additional British films worth looking for-
ward to include “Tembi,” a story of the
African jungle, to which Cherry Kearton,
the famous English naturalist, has contri-
buted some amazing animal photography.
Another is “The Lure,” in which the beaute-
ous Margaret Bannerman will return to
Australia. Margaret will, as usual, be the
frame on which the latest Parisian confec-
tions will be hung. In fact, the costumiers
make no bones about announcing that they
have “conceived the artiste’s costumes with
a view to what they intend decreeing in the
near future’s fashions.”
“The Single Standard” (M.G.M.) is a
silent movie which begins by asking why
married males can gambol in forbidden fields
whilst the same privilege is denied their
better halves, and then sets out to reveal
what happens to an alluring female when she
enters the wild-oats business. Piqued at the
liberty allowed her male friends in amorous
matters, Arden Stuart (Greta Garbo) flirts
with a chauffeur, who, when dismissed for
having been in her company, commits
suicide. The second, Packy Cannon (Nils
Asther), one-time sailor and bruiser turned
modernist paint- and woman-pursuer, is made
of sterner material. Twelve hours after her
nose lias been tickled by bis moustache Arden
elopes with him aboard his' schooner to the
South Seas. Idyllic weeks follow, until
Packy, feeling the urge to besmear more
canvas, drops a hint that their cruise should
cease. Back in San Francisco, where she is
a leading social belle, Arden has a third scout
around and captures Tommy Hewlett (John
Mack Brown) and marries him. Three years
elapse; a child blesses the apparently happy
home, and then Packy returns. Arden and
Packy plan a second departure, but just as
the anchor is about to be weighed Arden
thinks of her child, and so saves her grief-
stricken husband from a hasty exit from the
world. This undiluted sentimentalism and
unoriginal plot is somewhat counterbalanced
by good photography and creditable acting.
The Palette
Fine color and excellence in water-color
and etching are features of Norman Lind-
say’s show at Sydney Macquarie Galleries,
and two ship models are added attractions.
One, a full-rigged 60-gun ship of 1750, is a
masterpiece of workmanship; experts have
failed to fault it. The other, a royal
pleasure-boat of earlier date, is also good to
look at. Outstanding in the picture line are
a brilliant satire, “Dress,” and a gustful
etching called “Thieves’ Kitchen.”
At the Sydney Fine Arts Gallery, Henry
Fullwood, one of the early ones to put real
Australia on canvas, stages a pretty show.
It is too pretty in spots, but such things as
“Macdonald River” and “St. John’s, Can-
berra,” easily evade the charge. In etchings
Fullwood is almost always at home, and
nothing in the 14 exhibits is better than his
glimpse of Argyle Cut, which, with mysteri-
ous generosity, he offered at bargain rates.
W. D. Knox has a habit of sentimentalis-
ing, but he sentimentalises from a fairly
solid basis of realistic knowledge. The spec-
tator’s eye can rove from the foregrounds to
the backgrounds of his pictures at the Sedon
Galleries, Melbourne, without fetching up
agaist any insuperable obstacles. On the
whole he tells one more about Australia
than the Englishmen vouchsafe about Eng-
land.
Adelaide, which is getting a notion that
eastern painters send across work that .\sn t
their best, has welcomed a show by Charles
Bryant. The Gallery has its eye on a big
early-morning study of Cornish fishing-boats.
A worthy Melbourne citizen whose hobby
is opening art shows recently concluded a
discourse with the statement that people
should buy more pictures because, “unfortu-
nately, artists must live !”
Now that the Felton Bequest has lost
its London buyer it is distributing more of
its largesse amongst local wielders of the
mahl stick. Two recent purchases are a
Charles Wheeler nude, for 250 guineas, and
“Meg Morrison,” by 11. B. Harrison, for
200 guineas. The Harrison portrait is of a
tall, slim, modern flapper reposing in non*-
chalant grace with a cigarette between her
fingers, and it is exceedingly well done.
Harrison, who earns his bread and butter
on the illustrations section of the Argus,
came under Max Meldrum’s influence when
the secession from the Nat. Gallery occurred.
The contemporary British art brought by
Murray Fuller and hung at the Vic. Society’s
rooms, Melbourne, is largely composed of
anthems. Julius Olsson’s moonlit seas con-
tinue to roll on his rockbound shores as they
have been rolling these 25 years past, while
Lucy Kemp-Welch’s horses are no more suc-
cessful in detaching themselves from their
backgrounds than they were 30 years ago.
Harold Knight strikes a new-old note in
two figure studies. His girl swelling under
a pink dress is a piece of literary realism
reminiscent of the Dutch school. Laura
Knight has some of her vigorous backstage
studies, George Clausen has imported some
of the sparkle of real light into liis “Allot-
ments,” and there is sensitiveness in Harry
Watson’s “Finla in a Velvet Jacket.” Also
Arnesby Brown achieves some measure of
veracity in his landscapes. The National
Gallery has purchased for GOO guineas
Orpen’s “Night,” a study of two people kiss-
ing in a darkened room, which seems a 10.
to pay for an imperfectly realised oscula-
tion. The 800-guinea cartoon of soldiers
revelling in mud that does not look lik(
mud would have been better value; it is at
least vigorously drafted. Some of the water-
colors are fresh and clean.
The Inky Way
“Ex-Express”: Jobs with the Berlitz
schools of languages are luring Australian
penmen to Deutschland these days. R. S.
Panton, who has been writing for the Red
Page, made his bow at Berlin in that way;
now he is assistant-correspondent there for
London Daily Express. The beauty of the
Berlitz system, ftom the point of view of
the inexperienced resident of Grub-street, is
that to teach English to the Germans you
don’t have to know German.
“Schnorrer”: Always Zionist in sentiment,
the Australian Jewish Chronicle becomes
definitely a Zionist organ owing to a shuffl
in the management. The change mops up
the Zionist Pioneer and the Maccabean :
but the Hebrew Standard, also of Sydney
which has never been enthusiastic ovc:
Zionism, is not affected.
Sydney Uni. librarian H. M. Green ha
just had published by Dent (London) a
narrative faery poem of unusual merit. It
is called “The Book of Beauty,” and tin-
spare time of four years went to the writing
of it.
“Lao-dah” : Book production in Maoriland
will take a big stride with the forthcoming
appearance of “Legends from the Maori,”
from the press of the N. Z. Book Depot.
They have been compiled by James Cowan,
of the Wellington Freelance, who has
spent a lifetime in interpreting Henare ii
beautiful prose to his pakeha fellow-citizen.
The very imaginative illustrations are b'
Stuart Peterson. Bulletin contributer anil
graduate of the Melbourne National Gallery:
and Maui Pomari, the most gifted man the
Polynesian races have produced, is co-editor.


v<v
cP
#
1
o
X
ONE gin may contain this virtue ...
another that; but in Crystal Court
Dry Gin all virtues are combined.
Crystal Court Dry Gin is the result of
long and thorough scientific research—
of investigation in other lands.
The great still in which it is produced
is the finest type in the World.
Into its making go the finest constit-
uents, the most scrupulous care; and to
place it still higher above all others it is
quadruple distilled for purity’s sake.
Thus, when you order Crystal Court
Dry Gin, the proud product of your
own country, you order a gin which
in purity, in medicinal properties, and
in delectable flavour has no equal in
the World.
Try it in your favorite form. Use
it as the base for delightful cocktails.
DRY GIN
QUADRUPLE D I
FOR PURITY'S
STI L L E
SAKE
m.
\\\
-• vv- ''pvwM
1
1
Tjlp®
GV
ii
UID
fell
(iai
',):sf!iS
, a rv
lU«’* t of
fc**\ 6 a cl
icb <* a
IS HtUS » J
/If!
il
m
/f
V
wmm
n
m
K
\WW
*
?Qice
BCRay
w-
\\
r"
,4;
» if*
|||l\v\v\«
S.<f:¥S*?*S


Victoria Means Variety
The stupendous panoramas of
BUFFALO and the placid, rippling
beauty of the GIPPSLAND LAKES—
The sandstone crags and peaks of the
GRAMPIANS and the sweet-smelling
charm of HEALESVILLE—
The thunder of surf along Victoria’s
gold and azure coastline, and the clean,
fresh winds, across the BOGONG
HIGH PLAINS.
ALL THESE AND A HUNDRED
AND ONE OTHER VARIED
DELIGHTS VICTORIA OFFERS
THE TOURIST.
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU
Queen’s Walk, Melbourne,
Martin Place, Sydney,
will help you to make your choice.
You must try this
LIGHT BEER
RESCffS
PILSENER
A Drink to Delight You
W. W. GREENER
GUNS
/»S
kill!
W. W. GREENER LTD., Birmingham.
Wholesale Australian Representatives:
W. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.,
405-07 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, €>l.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Electric trains now run to the A.J.C.’s
pretty Warwick Farm course. The innova-
tion was appreciated on Saturday, and it
will have a favorable effect on attendances
once times begin to improve. Backers began
badly when Jean Margot, a rank outsider,
ran away with the first division of the
Maiden Handicap (33 to 1, nominal, in the
ring, she returned £2l 14s. 6d. on the 10s.
tote, which paid two other divs.) ; and they
received an awful facer when Waugoola, who
looked the good thing of the day, was badly
left in the Farm Stakes. Even then he led
into the straight, but the effort took too
much out of him and he did not get a place.
Cleave ran an excellent race against
Loquacious in the Adrian Knox Stakes last
season, but she seems to have grown squibby.
Backed again for the Varroville Handicap
(Newsore and Violian were the favorites)
she set up a big lead in the early stages, but
showed no fight when tackled by Raisin (8
to 1), and subsided into fourth place behind
Newsore and Violian; Raisin, who was
ridden by Pratt, won by four lengths in the
rattling good time, for the Farm, of lmin.
12£sec. She is a little brown mare by
Rossendale—Dessert, and ought to go a good
mile; Loquat, her half-brother, won at a
mile and three furlongs.
Papatu (9 to 2), now owned by Matthews,
the bookmaker, and trained by Poison, proved
too solid at the finish of the Ilomebush Han-
dicap for Nan Kourgan (10 to 1), who had
flattered her few supporters and the book-
makers up to the last 50 yards or so. Edgardo
(14 to 1), from Newcastle, was third, and
Patadawn, the favorite, fourth—Patadawn
could not manage the turns. Papatu, of
course, is Maoriland-bred. What with
Nightmarch, The Banker, Papatu, First
Acre and Patadawn, horses from the sister-
Dominion have been remarkably successful
in handicaps over a bit of distance in Syd-
ney this spring.
At least eight horses were backed for the
Macquarie Grove Handicap. Cave Dweller,
Cool Dan and Golden Music were fighting
it out a furlong from home; then Black
Douglas (10 to 1) came along and beat them
all. Taken to the front in previous races, he
had. failed to stay out a mile, but ridden
patiently by Bartle on this occasion he
finished strongly.
$ H: $ *
For Canterbury Park on Saturday:—
Trial Stakes: Starlike; next, Sir Tarsia.
Flying Handicap: Lady Canberra; next,
Gun Club.
Canterbury Handicap: Frances Cyllene ;
next, Eden Hall.
Welter : Roley ; next, The Quaker.
The crowd watching the running of the
Purse at Epsom (Vic.) on Saturday shrieked
with horror when Billy Duncan and an
apprentice jockey were unseated in the
middle of a closely-packed field, beneath the
noses of people who overhung rails of the
straight. The boys lay motionless, and for
a moment it looked as if they had been
killed. Happily both escaped with nothing
more serious than a broken collar-bone,
though Duncan was removed to a private
hospital for observation. The crack jockey
rode the favorite, Quick Reward. His com-
panion in misfortune, McGill, was making
his debut in the saddle on one of Jack Holt’s
horses, Royal Parade. Duncan had piloted
two winners, and was in line for a royal
afternoon when the accident happened.
• • • - • •
Several weeks must elapse before Duncan
can return to the saddle. Bookmakers are
unlikely to weep, having had to pay out a
lot of money over the young man’s mounts
this spring. It is probable that in other
hands neither Arnstead (5 to 2) nor Binna
(8 to 1) would have scored at Epsom. Dun-
can got Arnstead home in the Two-year-old
Handicap through rushing to the front early,
and won on Binna by entirely opposite
tactics. Arnstead had to be ridden right
out to stall off Luminous Crow by a head.
Scanlon, who bestrode Luminous Crow, will
sail for France early in January to join
the stable of Frank Bullock, who obtained
a handsome retainer for him from the sports-
man who has sent out a thoroughbred named
Lorraine to be trained in Melbourne by
Frank Lewis. Binna might have been
vanquished in the Welter Handicap if H. E.
THE CALL FOR ECONOMY.
GRANNY: “I want a box of these ’ere Test matches that last seven days.”
Connolly’s imported gelding Subaltern had
been less coldly ridden by ITowes.
Arnstead belongs to Lindsay Field, whose
ancestors played a leading part in the foun-
dation of horse-breeding in Tasmania. Sheet
Anchor, Ringwood, Malua and a host of
other celebrities were products of the famous
Calstock stud, where St. Albans did duty.
Lindsay Field, a black-browed, bespectacled
man of middle ago, has settled on the land
in Victoria. He entrusted the training of
Arnstead to Fred Hoysted. The gelding is
by Greenstead from Aronette, who won on
Sydnev courses. S. A. Rawdon backed his
filly Neoxena, by Drake, solidly against
Arnstead, but she failed to gain a place.
Third place went to Chaene, by Devizes from
the dam of Henare and Cable, two hurdle-
racers. Dave Price did not fancy Chaene,
who was quoted to 100 to 1.
Backed from 7 to 2 to 5 to 2 for the
Brush Steeplechase, the Western District
mare Gipsy Verse romped home in advance
of Re Consul (100 to 3) and old Blarwyn
(6 to 1). Falls were frequent, and all
interest evaporated when Master Meadows
toppled over, after disputing control with
the favorite and appearing to have her
measure. The Purse went to Polygonum
(6 to 1), a Buckwheat gelding trained by
Steve Murphy, brother-in-law of Norman
Scobie, now private trainer for Sir Charles
Hyde in England. Dewliurst, on Poly-
gonunif outrode the little boy on Romany
Rye, whose owner, the only son of veteran
t oreswick, is away on the Continent,
. . .
T thp Rnsom Handiean
Mo ln *PProprnatnlg the Epsom Handicap,
Nagrada (6 to 1) covered 10 furlongs in
j mn }: s |? e f- and equalled the course record
the distance. He had to struggle despei-
ately to beat the former Maorilander, Sir
Roy, by a head. Cimbnan (10 to 9) re-
sented a rise to 9st. in weight and finished
a disappointing third. Reonui, now in the
stable of Stanley Reid, was at 7 to 1, and
appropriately,ran seventh. He has descended
rapidly on the ladder of fame. Lucie Man-
ette (7 to 4) put Cimbrian to shame by
lumping 9st. 61b. to victory in the Epsom
Plate. This Chrysolaus mare is very fit.
* * * *
For Sandown Park on Saturday:—
tt, dm,* .
R:ace IPatrohms; £2 a £: .
Handicap. Reputed King,
n ' ’ 8 ’ ‘ * * *
“Thormanby”: The Aga Khan is probably
the only genuine saint with horses in train-
ing. Be that as it may, he finished up the
English racing season last week at the top
of the winning-owners’ list, 20 of his horses
collecting £39,866. That should just about
balance liis expenses, for he is an indomi-
table buyer, and doesn’t care what he gives
for his fancies, while his trainers in Eng-
land and France can write their own tickets.
Still, he can afford it, for in addition to
the contributions of the great division of
Islam of which he is the head he has vast
possessions. Australian Frank Wootton
scored most often among the trainers with
40 firsts, and for the fourth time Gordon
Richards topped the winning-jockeys’ table
with 135 firsts.
* * * *
“Keg” : The statistical fiend who discovered
that £10,000,000 changed hands on the Cup
meeting (B. 13/11/’29) certainly missed a
lot of wagering. The tram depdt that
employs me to collect revenue off a footboard
has several starting-price bookies. The two
oldest operators have their own cars, neither
of them being Lizzies, and several others,
comparative newcomers, are never short of
a fiver. One thing is very certain, these
gentlemen forget many items when making
up their income-tax forms. I am in one of
the really big depots in. the service, and the
money that changes hands would surprise
the unsophisticated.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
The Australian middleweight title changed
hands at Sydney Stadium on Saturday night,
when Jack Haines (list, lib.) wrested it
from Ted Monson (list. 2flb.), in the 13th
round. The pace was on from the jump,
and after Monson had missed in the open-
ing round, Haines staggered him with a
stinging left-hook. In the second, Haines
scored well with both hands at long range,
Monson doing best in close with short rights.
Monson’s persistent boring in worried Haines
in the sixth, making him miss badly. In the
next Haines nearly lifted Monson’s head oft'
with three vicious right upper-cuts, and had
him reeling. Both men slowed down in
the ninth, but from the 10th to the finish
it was simply a massacre, and, though Mon-
son displayed grit and toughness, the third
man wisely stopped the fuss. The winner is
a brilliant boxer and a hard puncher, and
looks like hanging on to his newly-won
title for a long time.
i}C H* *
“Pud” Segar (list. 211b.), of Adelaide,
failed in an attempt to come back against
Young Palmer (list. 111b.) at Melbourne
Stadium on Saturday night. Palmer, who is
still very raw, gave his worst exhibition to
date, but was always definitely on top.
“Pud” wrestled his way through until the
10th round, when a right to the jaw dropped
him. Efforts at resuscitation during the
spell failing to revive him, Segar was rushed
to hospital, still in a state of collapse.
* ♦ H* *
“Ben Caunt” : The fight in London between
the hulking Italian Camera and Stribling
ended in a win for the former on a foul, but
not before the Yankee had given his opponent
a sound lacing over six rounds. The tight has
a curious historical parallel. Nearly 200 years
ago—in 1733, to be exact —a vast Italian
gondolier reached London in the train of the
Italian embassy. Stories of his powers got
on the nerves of the London sportsmen, and
they deputed Figg, first of boxing promoters,
to pick a man to beat the big chap. This
lie did in the person of Bob Whittaker, a
middleweight, who was the “Iron Man” of
those days. A swing from the Italian
knocked Bob off the stage in the first round.
Nothing daunted, he climbed up again, and.
ducking the next, drove a punch to the mark
that convinced the Venetian he had had
enough.
The Ins and Outs
After sighing for a real Australian wicket,
the Gilliganites got one in Sydney, but
neglected the elementary precaution of
winning the toss. The young N.S.W. team
declared after a day and a half of fast cricket,
with 8 for 629. Bradman, improved out of
sight since last season, took a splendid 157,
while Kippax, just off a sick bed, was
streaky in collecting 105. Allsopp played a
great punching innings for 117, and quite as
convincing was the stylish 90 of McCabe,
another country lad. Other scorers were
Marks (38) and Jackson (49), this last a
disappointing knock. The fast-medium bowl-
ing of the visitors was only varied by Bow-
ley’s slows, if Duleepsinhji’s efforts on
similar lines be overlooked. The Indian
crack is in another category as a batsman,
and was going most attractively when he
dragged Dupain on for 34. Though vot yet
up to Uncle Ranji’s class, he has a rare
pair of wrists, and times the ball to per-
fection. Gilligan drove freely for 45, but
not until Frank Woolley arrived was the
futility of the N.S.W. attack seen in its true
perspective. With Hooker, Dupain, McCabe
and Fairfax all bowling the same sort of
stuff, mostly off the wicket, the great left-
hander had a field day, ending with 61 n.o.
at stumps on Saturday, when the board
showed 171 for 3 wickets. Woolley and
Turnbull carried the score to 351 before
Turnbull went, c. and b. Bradman, for 100.
When rain stopped play at 3.30 p.m. it
was 398 for 5 wickets, Woolley being
201 n.o.
(Continued on page 41.)
Australasia scored in the closing stages of
the professional billiard matches in England.
The amazing Walter Lindrum beat Willie
Smith by 28,333 to 20,350, making five breaks
over 1000 in one week —an unparalleled feat.
Maorilander Clarke McConachy defeated the
English champion Joe Davis by 23,589 to
22,769, his total also including several four-
figure breaks.
* * * *
The Kangaroos won the 21st match of
their tour against Halifax by 58-9, the
highest score yet recorded by them on this
trip. The visitors led 20-9 at half-time and,
in spite of heavy rain, added 38 points in
the last half-hour of the second spell. The
points were made up from 12 tries, 11 goals
to 3 tries.
THE APOTHEOSiS Or THE PUG.
[FOR THE BULLETIB.]
“The 20-stone Italian boxer Camera, who beat the
American Stribling (on a foul) at the Albert Hall,
was entertained at supper by ex-Lord Chancellor
Birkenhead, the Prince of Wales being placed next
to the guest of honor.”
Corinthians limned in Conan Doyle’s
romances.
Were fairly generous patrons, you’ll allpw;
They loved “the fancy” and they backed their
fancies
And treated them to “liptrap” and to
chow;
But never gladiator had the chances
In those robustious days that wait him
now,
When as an honored guest he breasts the
doors
To taste the fare of ex-Lord Chancellors.
The old school fought—poor beggars mayn’t
be choosers—
For sums a modern scarce would deign to
lift;
Little for winners was, and nix for losers,
When Belcher battered and Mendoza biffed,
And never then, save at the ringside, bruisers
The air that’s breathed by royal princes
sniffed,
Or sat, the heroes of the hour, at meat
With men who’d had the Woolsack for a
seat.
Giants they may have been in skill and
science,
And gameness in a hundred battles shown,
Those rugged champions who hurled defiance
At other packages of brawn and bone ;
Yet pugilism now has vaster giants
Who tip the beam at over twenty stone,
And their immensities to banquets bring
With him who’s kept the conscience of a
king. *
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


NOCR&KSRBYJ
Gift Suggestions
i >Z 1.—TAYLOR'S “EYE
ORDINARY STEEL TABLE
full-sized blades.
PRICES:
Dessert
Table
SPECIAL LOW-PRICED
STEEL STAINLESS KNIVES,
full-sized blades. Polished.
PRICES:
Dessert
Table
WITNESS”
KNIVES,
1-doz.
" 9/6
12/-
11 EE El ELD
best steel,
STAINLESS KNIVES, in rac
half-dozens. Joseph Rodgers’
Dessert, Idoz 12/-
Table, Jdoz 13/6
Taylor’s “Eye Witness”—r
Dessert, Idoz 12/-
Table, -Idoz 14/-
I-doz.
'11/3
11/3
k boxes of
18/- 25/-
21/- 27/6
UK
VJ
BZ 2.—CHILD’S SET,
knife, 1 fork and spoon
made in Sheffield.
PRICES 2/6, 3/11, 4/11
comprising 1
Best quality,
Si
$3
/Y
8s
55 <5
BZ 3.—CHILD’S E.P.N.S. SPOON AND
PUSHER, in a fancy gift cardboard box.
PRICE 2 6
BZ 4.—-SHEATH KNIFE, Rodgers’, Steel-
plated and strong. Complete with
leather sheath. /g*
PRICE //D
EZ 24. —TOOL SETS. Boys’ favourite
tool sets. Prices range according to the
number of tools in each set.
Prices, per box 1/-, 1/9, 2/6,
3/6, 4/11, 5/9, 6/11, 7/9, 10/9, 15/-
EZ 25.—DAISY AIR GUN. These guns
are suitable for dart or slugs.
PRICES each 7/6
EZ 26.—MECHANICAL TRAIN SETS,
complete with rails and carriages; re-
markable value.
PRICES 2/- to 20/-
EZ 27.—CINEMATOGRAPHS. Let your
children entertain their pals with one of
these cinematographs. They are supplied
complete with two films and kerosene
lamp.
PRICES 6/11,
6/11, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 19/11, 32/6, 39/6
Cinematographs with electric attachments.
PRICES 49/6 and 57/6
BZ 9.—NICKEL-SILVER SPOONS AND
FORKS, excellent wearing, best English
nickel-silver; will wear white throughout.
No. 1 quality.
SPOONS.
Tea. Des. Table.
PRICE, i-doz .. 6/3 11/3 15/-
' FORKS.
Des. Table.
PRICE, 1-doz 11/3 15/-
=7
BZ 10.—-3-PIECE STAINLESS CARV-
ING SET, xylonite handles and blades
of best Sheffield steel.
PRICES: 19/6, 22/6, 25/-, 27/6, 35/-
PAIR OF CARVERS, stainless steel
knives with xylonite handles, round or
square shaped. O 1 /
PRICE, per pair tL\.l m
PAIR OF CARVERS, with xylonite
handles.
PRICE, per pair 12/6, 16/6
Yj
BZ 11.—“WELDON” MANTEL CLOCK,
imitation marble; 16in. x 12in. Has gilt
metal caps and cast metal; 8-day ; strikes
hours and half-hours. ‘ Has 6in. dial
and easily read figures. vh/
PRICE 57 / -
re
FAZ I.—L AMP
SHADES. Many colors,
shapes and sizes are
included in this range.
Beautiful colorings
that will harmonise
with any room set.
Just state the color of
your room setting and
we will do the rest.
PRICES: 10/6, 14/11,
17/6, 22/6, 27/6
Shades for Lamp
Standards, a s illus-
trated, PRICES, 65/-,
67/6, 75/-
FZ 2.— JACOBEAN LAMP STANDARDS.
Exceptionally well finished. Complete
with lamp holder, flex and plug. An
ideal gift for the home.
PRICE
Lamp Standards in Polished Maple. Com-
plete with fittings. r> //»
PRICE OZ/ O
596
l ' ' *.:**&*
FZ 3. —CARD TABLES. An ideal table
for the verandah, lawn or within the
home, and used extensively for motor
camping’. Sturdily constructed, with
braced legs and green baize top; has a
rich mahogany finish. Size: Top 29
inches square; height, 26 inches. Size
when folded is 29in. x 29in. x lLin.;
a very compact size.
PRICE
15/6
FZ 4.—DECK CHAIRS. Made from best
selected hardwood and have canopy shade.
Fitted with double navy canvas back.
Suitable for verandah or garden use.
The latest idea in Deck Chairs.
PRICE
25/11
DECK CHAIRS with arms and footrest.
Fancy striped canvas seats of good
quality.
PRICE
15/-
NOCK & KIRBY LTD.
Sydney's Speciality Hardware Store ,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. Box 68CC, G.P.O.
FOR ONE WEEK ONLY!
t
18/6 POPLIN SHIRTS
with two matching Collars 12/6
Final November bargain for Men! Secure some of these shirts
immediately, next week they revert back to their original price! Our
standard high-grade woven stripe Poplin Shirts with two matching
" Prince of Wales ” tab collars ! Designs are mostly exclusive to David
Jones’ and cannot be obtained elsewhere. Colours guaranteed fast.
In all sizes, 14| to 17 inch neck. Usually 18/6. Now 12/6.
DAVID JONES’
New Store and George Street Shop
opposite G.P.O.
COLD STORAGE
WITHOUT ICE
THE TRAFALGAR COOL SAFE
r i
m
m |
m&ii a
Mf
fejNi > [
Solves the Problem
What can be better on a hot day
than food or drink that comes cool
and appetising to the table? The
Trafalgar Cool Safe makes this
possible. It makes dining a pleasure.
For Station, Farm or Home—in
town or country it is a necessity.
Food loses none of its nutritive
qualities. It has wire-gauze sides.
It is made of galvanised iron
throughout.
Net on
Size. Inside Storage Space. Weight Packed. Rail Sydney.
No. o—l 7in. x x 13in. 281 b. £2/17/6
No. I—2oin. x 18in. x Min. 391 b. £3/17/6
No. 2 x x 16in. 471 b. £4/10/-
No. 3—26 in. x 23in. x s9lb. £5/10/-
No. 4—29 in. x 26in. x 21 in. 771 b. £6/10/-
No. s—32in. x x 24in. 851 b. £7/15/-
Nos. 0, 1,2 and 3 two shelves. Nos 4 and 5 three shelves.
Each Safe Packed separately. Packing free.
For Groceries, Household, Station and Farm
Requisites, write to
R. J. BROWN,
No. 1 Bligh Street, Sydney
Write Department “B.”
The
ventilation
of the safe
enables cool air
to pass through
the safe,
aerating its
contents.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Pisk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etr.
tre
t
ret
re
v
/ISO**,
ge «a\
»«*** l vo^
' t "j f “T£*
s r** 1
a*'
v. P*
rVv r
c^'
t^dev
M «.*r*^
ftt
THE \
REN RUT*
QUADRUPLE
HAND PUMP
Price, 45/-
(With Gauge,
5/- extra.)
If unable to obtain,
write to our Factory
Representative?
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Mel-
bourne, Australia.
Will fully inflate the average motor-
tyre in one minute.
tetßsi!2D
fH e
Dog food
Supreme
w.
A perfectly balanced meat ration;
keeps dogs of all kinds in
the pink of condition.
In Tins. READY TO SERVE.
A Perfectly-balanced Ration.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB
P. O. Box 1821, Melbourne
Ken-T :T?ation
Bert rTHEDE GOES that \DIOT
SHAsRK-ELiUT BROWN"
he love to
show oft= ? w
£>ERT : “He'll DO \T ONCE Too
OFTEN \ ”
he's enough, thev
Don't “VK\<-E E=Ajso-vs/OR. V
The Ins and Outs
“Lansdowne”: A. A. E. (“Dick”) Lilley,
of Warwickshire, who died last week at 62,
filled a niche of his own in cricket for 20
years. “No Englishman,” writes Altham
in his “History of Cricket,” “can rival his
record of 35 Test matches, and none re-
mained for so long the confidant and sage
counsellor of English captains.” There may
have been more brilliant ’keepers than Lilley,
but it is doubtful if there was ever a safer
one, and no great ’keeper was ever a more
reliable batsman. In international games
alone he caught 65 batsmen at the wickets —
the next best is Blackham’s 36—and he
averaged over 20 for more than 40 innings
in Tests. Lilley retired from first-class
cricket in 1911.
* $ * #
“Bumpk”: One of the most remarkable
coincidences on record occurred in connection
with the visit of the English team to Mel-
bourne. On Nov. 15, Melbourne Herald
printed the following excerpt from its issue
of the same date 50 years ago:—
Alexander appeared to be very dangerous in the
match between the Intercolonial eleven and 12 of
the Colony. He got five for 35 for the Intercolonial
team.
Alexander was one of the selections for the
Victorian side which met the-present team
of Englishmen, and the match started on the
15th of November.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: The farcical ending of the
match between Victoria and Gilligan’s eleven
has giyen the increasing army who consider
that big cricket is a public nuisance a fine
chance to push their case. With only 7
runs wanted for Victoria to win and any
amount of wickets to fall, the players
solemnly walked off the field when time was
called on the Monday night. Woodfull was
then 93, and it seems to have been regarded
as imperative by the high gods of cricket
that he must get his century, though the
heavens should dissolve. When the devotees
assembled next morning, WoodfulPs partner
carefully abstained from making runs, and
the visiting bowlers delivered lollypops to
enable the star to coruscate. The stuff he
got was so rotten that he was unable to
hit it, until at last, after accumulating 3,
he drove a ball that looked like a boundary.
All concerned bolted off the field. The ball
stopped short of the boundary, so Woodfull
and his partner returned to the now vacated
creases and ran off the runs required. Wood-
full is entitled to his century on the letter
of the law. It is not, however, one to make
a song about.
Hs Hi ❖ ❖
“Amateur Pro”: The announcement that
Arthur Mailey had infringed the Board of
Control rule that no active cricketer should
write press comment on cricket—this he did
while playing against Queensland in Bris-
bane —roused little interest in a bored public
which has for some time recognised that the
bosie bowler of other days was due for the
shelf, or the left-hand corner of the long
room in the members’ stand at Sydney
Cricket Ground, where all the —let us say—
imaginative veterans congregate to compare
the past with the present. Mailey made
error in attempting to come back to big
cricket after his announced retirement. It
is possible that he realised this after his
failure against Queensland and took the
easiest way out of the difficulty.
# * * *
“Shrewsbury”; When Chapman’s team
was here some of the cricket experts who
thrill the public in the daily press got
badly tangled over such items as Jardine’s
Harlequin cap and the Quidnunc headgear
affected by Chapman himself. Similar con-
fusion has been evident in connection with
the visit to Sydney of Gilligan’s side. One
writer, . chronicling their arrival, said the
team displayed “the latest in colored neck-
ties,” while another referred to them as wear-
ing “tlie colors of the Marylebone C. C. —
red, yellow and blue.” The colors worn
are those marking every team sent overseas
under the auspices of the M.C.C. The colors
G f the world-famous club are red and yellow
— or SC arlet and gold if you like it better,
* * * *
“Tenth Slip”: Not only South Australians
but a n i oV er s of a great batsman and an
unparalleled field were sorely disappointed
at t lie failure of V. Y. Richardson against
the Gilliganites. Following on his wretched
j U ck in the Test matches last season, his
inability to lift the hoodoo is depressing,
gtill that sort of thing comes sometimes to
be best. Even the incomparable Victor
Trumper had a bad season when F. R.
Foster was out here, and tlie temporary
eclipse of Macartney will be remembered by
all. Richardson’s performances are so out-
standing as to give every hope that he will
C ome back again. In the 41 Sheffield matches
he has played in his average is 41.25.
* * * *
“Saint” : So far the feature of the cricket
season in Australia lias been the extra-
ordinary success of the venerable Blackie,
not only in Melbourne pennant cricket but
against the Marylebone side led by Gilligan.
His figures of 12 for 57 in that match—s
wickets in the first innings and 7 in the
second—are unusual in these days of bowling
averages running over the 20’s, and it would
seem that, in spite of the weight of years,
about which so many folk talk nonsense—
he is only 47, and the type you cannot stop
with a squaring axe—he will at last have
a trip to England. It should be remem-
bered that when Wilfrid Rhodes won the Test
battle for England he was touching the lialf-
century. The other day, entering on his
53rd year, he was chosen for the M.C.C.
team which is on its way to tour the West
Indies.
TU Wafermpn
„ .. . .
. The first amateur sculling race held in
Australia over the Olympic distance (2000
me l was Y on with ease by Australian
an< Olympic champion R. Pearce at Sydney
Eowin S c lub s regatta. llis time was 6mm.
40scc., or 21 4-ss. better than liis own Olym-
P IC reco^ d m Amsterdam On tins occasion,
Teaice had the tide and wind with him,
whereas the Olympic event was rowed on a
canal - * Even the * n ’ the tim * e 18 Phenomenal,
«<v • . t t> at „ ~ , , ,
a ? / : J-Dilaicns recently elected
tbe honorary life member of the South
Rowing-Association, has a fine
record as an oarsman and rowing official.
He began his rowing with Torrens nearly
“ 5 , f ears ?«£ and after a spell with the
a iS m cl ?So^ S faoTT
fro “ Q ta a ’ ,d fro ™ 1928 to
' • ( iorr 11 0f < o 7 bang s Cup
at Melbourne, Bris-
baae and Idobart ’ and ! s this year president
of the Australian Amateur* Rowing Council.
TT , „ , r
£? 1 f n ' ; n , fl a l^rl a
Will not Q(_llgllt tho llG£llts OT till
“SSuitan “"TxSrtTtem’
would no, were it’uoi
K *f . c is t | be* holcfat Mannnm in Mav
and the South Australian rowing authorities
think it advisable to conserve their cash and
tbeir energies for,that important event. On -
interesting item in connection with the
carnival cropped up in the City Council when
the question of reserving a section of the lake
bank as a sort' of saddling paddock was
ra iscd. The Labor bloc bitterly opposed the
j doa 011 i y t 0 fj 11( ] out later that their thunder
had bpen waste d.
* * * «
“Bumpk” : A» cxh-um-diuuvrlookiug cruft
of the Naldera iuto
J/, ob c ? * y -, 0n ° f acb f lde was a
10w of lovcls -- and a ciew p isht grasped
these in their hands. Onlookers were inclined
to scoff, but when the “rowers” put their
backs into it and the boat sped off for a
regatta at Williamstown at the speed of an
average motor-boat, they suppressed their
comments. The levers are ingeniously geared
to a tail-shaft which terminates in an
ordinary propeller, and the amount of power
generated is three or four times that which
is produced by an eight equipped with asii
blades.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cash Amateur” : It looks as if Australia
will be the first to give the lead in the
matter of open tennis tournaments. The idea
is being reviewed in America and Europe,
but the definite invitation to the two lead-
ing overseas professionals, Karel Kozeluh
and Vincent Richards, seems to have clinched
matters on this side. Not only will the
visitors be pitted against our own profes-
sionals, of whom the outstanding examples
are J. O. Anderson and Les Baker, but
they will be participating in an open com-
petition for amateurs and professionals, which
will be a prominent item on the programme
of the Australian championships held in
Melbourne in January. Loud cheers for the
Australian tennis authorities ! The idea that
they were one with the Seven Sleepers of
Ephesus is now discounted.
:!: * *
“Blah”: An ill-informed writer of an
article in an American journal which
specialises in tennis remarks of left-
handed players that only one ever reached
championship class, that one being Bindley
Murray—an American who won the Yank
singles in 1918, and has never been heard
of since. Passing over Norman Brookes and
Hawkes, both Australian lefthanders of some
distinction, it will do no harm to call the
attention of the Yankee positivist to two of
his own countrymen, Beals Wright and that
Dwight Davis whose name is commem-
morated by a certain cup contest. Both
these men were in the world’s champion
class in their day, and both were molly-
handers. There are a dozen other instances
to quote, if that were necessary.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hotham”: That great golfer Ivo Whit-
ton had the go of his life the other day
against the Victorian youngster M. J. Ryan.
Wliitton is Australia’s open champion, while
Ryan holds the amateur title, and those who
expected superlative golf when the pair met in
the Neuenhoffcr Gold Cup over 36 holes of
stroke play were not disappointed. The
game ended in a tie, Ryan holding out a
niblick shot to equal Whitton’s score of
144. The play-off over nine holes was won
by Whitton with a card of 35, Ryan’s figures
being 37.
* * * *
“Hoylake”: British golfers arc in a fer-
ment because someone writing in the Labor
press lias stigmatised golf as the pastime of
the capitalistic classes. It is a curious criti-
cism coming from Britain, where there are
probably more toilers playing the game in
artisan clubs and on free courses than in any
other country save America. It is worth not-
ing that the same idea appears to obtain among
a section of Australians. Most of the Labor
papers published in this country devote a
good deal of space to games and sport, but
not one, to the writer’s knowledge, takes the
slightest cognisance of the game which so
many Labor politicians play.
--!= * ;!: *
“Hamilton”: Queensland’s annual cham-
pionship for golf caddies is an institution
that other States might well copy. It brings
youngsters to Brisbane from all over Queens-
land, and the form shown by the boys is
excellent. The contest carries the Courier
Cup, the latter being housed in the club by
which the winner is employed, while the
victor gets a medal. It ’ consists of a
stroke competition, the two leaders playing
off a match on another course. This year
two lads, Hodgson and Single, from the
same club, Indooroopilly, fought out the
final, Hodgson winning on the 18th green
by a putt.
“The Mcllaggis”: Some golfers are born
lucky; so much so, indeed, that they can
criticise the club professional’s swing, and
yet survive. One of them cropped up in
Sydney the other day. Playing at the Mos-
man club, he holed out in one at the ninth.
That’s where the question of luck came in,
for Mosman is one of the few Sydney clubs
which does not boast a fully equipped nine-
teenth. True, there is a clubhouse there,
but the essential feature of golf clubhouses
is lacking. That is all the more difficult to
understand, since Mosman’s harbor-side
course is not only trying to the temper but
extremely provocative of thirst.
“Marino”: There was a distinct air of
depression noticeable in Adelaide golfing
circles the other day when it was learned
that Rufus Stewart, of Ivooyonga, the pro-
fessional champion of Australia, had taken
to night bowls. Of course, since he is. not
a member of his golf club, Stewart is in a
measure immune from the risks to which his
entry to bowls as a member will expose him,
though here again the fact that he will only
be playing after 6 p.m. should prove a safe-
guard. The writer knows —or knew—several
people who tried to play bowls and golf at
the same time. In each case the pace proved
too hectic—poor lads !
$ * * *
“Proggins” : It is good to note that univer-
sity golf has at last become established in
Australia. Melbourne and Adelaide have led
the way, and last year Sydney ,came into the
game. Sydney Uni. is making a formal
entry to the golfing world with an open
championship over 36 holes at Bonnie
Doon, on December 12. It has been given
the title of “open” because graduates of
any university may enter. A big percen-
tage of Australian crack players are gradu-
ates of Australian or overseas universities,
so the entry should be a high-class one.
Inter-uni. matches on the lines of the fam-
ous Oxford-Cambridge fixture should be- the
next step.
* * * *
“Cranoustie”: As all golfers know, the
usual happening at golf is for something
unusual to turn up. In the recent Irish
amateur championship one of the contes-
tants played his ball into the pocket of a
coat which a girl spectator had thrown
down beside the fairway. The young female
was with difficulty restrained from lifting
the coat while the referee considered the
legal aspects of the happening. Though he
was Attorneyi-General for the North, of
Ireland he crayfished, and declined to adjudi-
cate. As the lady was insistent in the mat-
ter of recovering her coat, it was hastily
resolved to allow the player to lift and
drop.
* * * *
“St. Andra”: The complexity of the rules
of golf and their interpretation is a matter
of common knowledge. There is one which
enjoins that in a stroke competition players
shall not take shelter because of the inclem-
ency of the weather. The other day a
number of players were disgusted to find,
after sploshing through a heavy dowmpour
to the bitter end, that another who had kept
warm and dry until the rain stopped had
then come out to return the winning card.
The malcontents had overlooked the adden-
dum to the rule which gives the club com-
mittee power to vary it at its discretion.
That in this instance it did not post the
notice to that effect until most of the players
had started out on their round did not add
to the spirit of camaraderie supposed to
attach to golf clubs.
(Continued on next page.)


m
MEET WIN. FOWLES,
who offers Australia’s greatest
val'ue in refined hotels at
CARLYON’S HOTEL
SPENCER STREET, MELBOURNE.
Single rooms from 5/6 per day; double from 8/6.
All meals optional. Breakfast, luncheon or dinner a
la carte from 1/6. Inclusive tariff, £4/4/- weekly.
Special quotations for sporting bodies, ete. Situated
right opposite Spencer Street Station, no taxi fares;
railway porter carries baggage across if necessary.
Please write for detailed tariff card. Carlyon’s
Hotel is sufficient address.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. 11. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, thi3
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
DOES
SAVE
PETROL
Wholesale Agents and Stockists:
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD*
Car and Cycle
“Formula”: N.S.W. Royal Auto. Club’s
speed trials on Gerringong Beach saw some
fine performances recorded, though the aero-
plane accident which resulted in the deaGi
of poor O’Connor and Berg marred the
gathering. W. Thompson’s supercharged
1496-c.c. Bugatti put up a new club record
for the flying mile, covered in 37 3-ssec.
This averaged 95.74 m.p.h., or nearly 7 m.p.h.
better than Il'ope Bartlett’s record, done in
an 8-cylinder supercharged car. Bartlett had
liis revenge in the 12 miles club championship,
which he won in his 2262-c.c. supercharged
Bugatti in llmin. 4 2-ssec., an average of
(551 m.p.h.
“Differential” : The English racing motorist
•T. R. Cobb, who made many friends while on
a business visit to Australia last year,
.set about shattering records on his return.
At Brooklands tracks the other day he did
the 100 miles at 112.19 m.p.h., which is
claimed as a track record, and followed this
up with a mile at the rate of 112.13 m.p.h..
which betters the world’s record for a track
pin. up by the late Parry Thomas in 1926.
•I* v *s :
“Disc Clutch”: The annual 500-mile race
for cars at Brooklands is one of the most
important track events in England, and this
year’s contest produced a great battle.
Twenty-eight cars started, ranging from a
748-c.c. “pram” to a Mercedes with an aero-
plane engine. The English cars had matters
all their own way, and the duel ended with
a win for F. C. Clement and .J. Barclay,
driving a 4398-c.c. Bentley, another car of
the same make being second and a Sunbeam
third. The winning car averaged 107.32
m.p.h. for the run.
* H: *
“Whizz”: Though in its earlier days there
were some serious spills at Davies Park,
the Brisbane motor-cycle speedway, acci-
dents have been rare since the ground was
remodelled. The first fatality on the new
track occurred when .Tack Arnott c-ame a crop-
per, and was struck by a following machine,
in spite of its rider’s efforts to avoid the
fallen man. Arnott was picked up with his
neck broken, but whether that was due to
the first purler or the subsequent collision
no one can say.
“Gabba”: Jack Arnott was one of
the finest motor-cycle riders in Maoriland,
and after coming to Australia jumped to the
front at once, winning one Australian cham-
pionship in Brisbane and putting up a record
for 2r-h.p. machines which still stands. He
was to have gone back to M.L. last month,
but stayed on to take part in the 100 miles
track race on Deagon racecourse on December
7. Only 24, he leaves a wife and young
family in Maoriland.
* * * *
“Glenelg”: Four South Australian motor-
cycle riders who have been showing on the
dirt tracks of Britain and the Continent re-
turned last week. The sport draws crowds up
to 50,000 in such big centres as Edinburgh
and Sheffield, to say nothing of the great
London track at Wembley. The game has
only recently been started in Germany, but
is catching on fast. In England it is pos-
sible to attend eight meetings a week, and
with a moderate amount of luck the money
is good.
* * * *
“Birkdale”: Beach racing, which had
rather slumped in popularity after the
fatal accident to Parry Thomas on the
Pendine Sands, is reviving again in Eng-
land. The motor-cyclists have taken it up,
and lately staged a 15-mile race on the
sands at Southport, in Lancashire. When
the tide is out these sands stretch several
miles wide, some 30 miles north and south,
and are ideal for high speeds. The event was
won by C. J. P. Dodson, dual winner of the
Senior Tourist trophy, and admittedly the
finest motor-cycle rider in Britain,
Miscellaneous
“Green Checquer”: Unless somebody has
blundered, a Victorian homer has smashed
all speed records for a pigeon in a race from
Coonamble (N.S.W.) to Melbourne, which
closed the Victorian season. The fowl was
clocked in at 7hr. llmin. 40sec. after release,
an average velocity of 2097 yards a minute,
or just under 74 m.p.h. The previous best
was an English record, 1900 yards a minute.
The bird was a blue checquer cock, owned
by W. Tawton.
* * * *
“G.F.R.”: Cables that one S. W. B. Wabs-
ley, hailing from New South Wales, had won
the quarter- and half-mile events at the
Oxford freshmen’s sports caused some head-
scratching in Sydney last week-end. King’s
School old boys have run the prodigy to
earth as S. M. Wansey who, after finishing
at Parramatta, was exported for intellectual
top-dressing at one of the older universities.
Wansey, at 15. won the junior half-mile at
the G.P.S. sports in time that still stands
as a record —2min. 9 3-ssec. The same event
in the senior class at the same sports fell
to him in 1927 and last year, when his time
was 2min. 1 3-ssec.
“Spike”: Jim Carlton, the Australasian
and Olympic sprinter, went off his form for
a time after returning from Amsterdam.
That he is back again was shown by his
establishment of a new State record for the
220 at a Sydney athletic meeting; the other
day, when he was clocked at 21 3-ssec., or
one-fifth of a second better than the figures
of the flying Nigel Barker, which have stood
since 1905. The spin also ties the Austral-
asian record of Norman Grelian, of Queens-
land, also made on a circular course in 1923.
* * * *
“Headingley”; The wear and tear of pro-
fessional football in the north of England—
every Northern Union club makes liberal
allowance for depreciation of its plant in its
annual balance-sheet —is telling heavily on
the Kangaroos, used as they are to one match
a week in their own country. Nearly every-
one on the side has been on the casualty list,
and it is evident that, after their brilliant
initial performances, the opposition deliber-
ately set itself to basher-gang tactics, as
one of their officials has admitted (B.
20/11/'29). Still, the record up to and
including the St. Helens match was a good
one, with only three losses and a draw out
of 19 games played. The points scored by
the touring side were 438 against 185.
“Aberdunedin” : The terms dictated by the
M.L. Rugby Union in respect of the brief
visit of the British team to Australia next
year do not err on the side of generosity,
amounting, as they do, to half the net proceeds
from the Australian matches. Certainly the
M.L. Union has had to pay the expense of
bringing the team out, but Australia is shar-
ing her part of that. In addition the gates
at Sydney and Brisbane will certainly far
exceed anything of the kind in Maoriland.
The demand is ill-advised from another point
of view. The Union game has now regained
strength in Australia, but has had to make
heavy commitments to do so. Without the
inter-Dominion matches, Rugby in Maoriland
will lapse into a merely parochial affair, and
that will inevitably mean the deterioration
of the game. As it is, the All Blacks have
already shown signs of refusing to profit by
experience gained outside the Dominion.
* * * *
“Stoush”; Following on a 5-0 hiding
administered to the Peru soccer side at Lima
by Paraguay, the home barrackers stormed
the Footbali Federation’s building and tried
to set it on fire. And after a Rugby match
at Narbonne, southern France, the crowd
rushed the field and strung up the referee,
who was cut down just in time and recovered
“after protracted medical attention.” These
cabled items should evoke the jealousy of
Melbourne football supporters, none of whom
have got quite so far as arson and lynching,
in spite of years of persistent effort.
* * *
“Bias”; The Canadian bowling side which
is to tour M.L. and part of Australia early
in the New Year will let little grass grow
beneath its bowling shoes. A buzz through
Maoriland is to be followed by jumps to
Melbourne, Adelaide and Tasmania, where
there will be a temporary stop for the big
tournament at Launceston. Sydney will be
reached on March 3, and three days later
the team of eight rinks, with camp followers,
DR. A. C. SYME, a prominent Victorian
horseowner, who races as “S. A.
Rawdon.”
will leave for Our Lady of the Snows. If
Australian cricket could only evolve a few
bowlers as fast as this lot, it would be all
to the good.
* # # #
“Southhampton” : Bowls, without question
the most ancient of recorded English games,
has undergone a tremendous revival since the
war. In the Elizabethan age and later it was
associated with alehouses and cheap gamb-
ling, while the development of the profes-
sional crown green game during the last half
of last century, with its heavy stakes and
wagering, did not improve its reputation.
Early in the present century the level green
game came into favor and has been gaining
ever since. Recent statistics show that,
whereas there w T ere only 600 clubs in England
in 1922, there are 1048 to-day. That is leav-
ing out Scotland, which is even more atteeted
by the virus. Wales and Ireland are com-
paratively immune; the Celtic temperament
likes something more bloodthirsty.
* * ❖ ❖
“Ride Off” : At last Australia is to see her
polo players measured against some of the
world’s best. The four Ashton brothers, of
the Goulburn (N.S.W.) club, holder of the
G. B. LEGGE, the Oxford and Kent
amateur batsman, now in Australia with
Gilligan’s Eleven.
Dudley Cup, are undertaking a private tour
of England under the auspices of Hurling-
ham. They will leave Sydney in January,
taking 25 ponies, which should be sufficient
in view of the comparatively soft English
grounds. After practice games against coun-
try teams during April, the Australians will
go through the London season from May to
July, playing at Ranelagh, Hurlingham and
Roehampton against the crack English clubs
and regimental teams, though no inter-
national fixture is likely. Goulburn was the
first N.S.W. club of note to learn the lesson
taught by the Indian Army visitors a couple
of seasons ago, and train its ponies to the
bit instead of the snaffle, so long affected by
other Australian clubs. The change bore
good fruit here, and should stand the club
in good stead abroad, where only the bit is
employed.
* .*H * *
“Blue Chalk” : It looks as if the squabble
over the conditions of the English profes-
sional billiard championship will at last be
settled. The trouble in the past has been
the insistence of the billiard-table makers
that the contest be held in one or other of
their tiny halls, with the result that the
gates cut up* by the players were trifling.
This was one of the reasons for Smith’s
continued refusal to enter, and it threatened
to prevent Lindrum and McConachy figuring
in the famous event. It has been practi-
cally agreed that the games will this time
be staged in adequate premises, such as those
in which Lindrum, Smith and co. have been
drawing houses of 2000 and over. It is
never too late to mend. For years the table
kings, with vast stocks of ivory- balls on
hand, refused to allow any other kind to be
used in the championship until public opinion
forced them to accept the composition.
* # * #
“Peak Halliard”: Tell “Topping Lift”
that his tears over the failure of the re-
stricted yacht N.S.W. I (B. 20/11/’29)
were premature. In her next attempt, and
handled by another skipper, the State’s first
hope for the Forster Cup on Hobson’s Bay
this season started off scratch, and won by
over a minute from the next best, which
had a minute’s handicap. Anyway, what is
there wrong with the craft? In four starts
to time of writing she has won twice, come
second once and finished down the course
on the other occasion. She evidently likes
a bit of wind, and Victorian conditions
should fill all requirements in this respect.
“W. J.C.”: Re that accident to the
Rawhiti’s imported Bermuda mast (B.
13/11/’29). Many Sydney yachting men
did not know that these hollow sticks could
be made here, but Frank Hayes, of Careen-
ing Cove, replaced the damaged section in a
few days, working by hand on Alaskan
spruce. As a youngster, Frank and his
brother often accompanied the late J. F.
Archibald, of The Bulletin, in the twin-
screw fishing-boat which Hayes and Sons
built for him.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Chev.” : How serious a competitor of the
railway the motor has become was shown by
a census taken at Albury of cars bound for
the Cup. An average of 800 passed through
daily for eight days; taking the average load
as four, 25,600 people from the Sydney sick
of the Murray preferred the road to the rail.
* * * *
“Old Q.": The restricting of Queensland
railway rebates to customers who contract
to have all their stuff carried by the depart-
ment is specially aimed at freelance carriers.
These are largely farmers who bring produce
into the markets in motor-lorries and fill up
with back loads for the publican and the
storekeeper. Regular carriers object to this
competition as keenly as do the railway
heads.
* * *
“The Ghoul”: A very present help in time
of trouble is the industrial life policy. A
Melbourne client asked how much she could
borrow on hers. I found it would be £4, and
when I took the cheque out the lady was
profuse in her expressions of gratitude. She
offered me a good gramophone, cheap ; it cost
her £3O, but she would let me have it for
£8 cash. “You see,” she explained, “I’ve
got a pianoler cornin’ in next week!”
* * * *
“Hugh Stone”: I thought I had struck a
cheap Australian varnish when I dissolved
some of our coast grass-tree gum in methy-
lated spirits and applied the result to a
dressed piece of pine. I took it to a furni-
ture-maker. “It looks all right,” he said,
“but it won’t last. Still, there’s one thing
it’s good for —polishing coffins. For a few
days it gives some woods a. cedar-like look,
and nobody’s the wiser when, it wears off.”
* * * *
“C.H.P.”: “Chevroford” (B. 6/11/’29)
wants to know if gympie wood could be
used in the construction of aircraft. It
could not.; it is useless for anything, fire-
wood included. I live and work among
gympie, and have seen it in all stages, from
green to rotten. When dry it powders
up, and nails or screws can be pulled out
of it with the fingers.
s'! * *
“Borom” ; There is reason to believe that
cocaine is now being brought into the Com-
monwealth in letters, 100 grains or so of the
feathery powder to the envelope. A hun-
dred such letters would contain over four
ounces of dope, which, when adulterated
with boracic acid or one of the other sub
stances used, would yield 10 ounces, and,
sold in five-grain packages, would bring in
more than £2OO. This illustrates the futility
of trying to stamp out the traffic by imposing
fines. Substantial prison sentences are
obviously needed.
# * * *
“Aileron”: Australian National Airways
(direction Kingsford Smith and Ulm) will
shortly be flying a regular mail and passen-
ger service between Sydney and Brisbane.
The fleet consists of four three-engined
Fokker monoplanes, each with a cabin seat-
ing a dozen people in wicker chairs, and lava-
tory and baggage accommodation.; two are
to be used for the Brisbane service, a third
for a night service to Melbourne, and the
fourth held in reserve. When the gap
between Adelaide and Melbourne has been
linked up by another co. it. will be possible
to fly on a regular schedule from the west
coast of Australia to Normanton, on the
Gulf of Carpentaria.
* * * *
“H-M.R.” : “Western Lands” does not men-
tion the worst part of the swindle involved
in the imposition of exchange on cheques for
taxes (B. 13/11/’29). You have to include
exchange at the rate of 2s. in the £100;
the N.S.W. Government gets cut rates and
so makes a profit. Also, if “Western Lands
and his next-door neighbor pay at the same
time and the amounts are under £25, the
State receives a shilling for exchange but
pays only threepence on the two cheques.
i\i ❖ ❖
“Privateer” : Westralia isn’t the only State
where the first railway didn’t start from the
capital (B. 9/10/’29). The line from Laun-
ceston to Deloraine was the first to be built
in the Speck, five years before the Main Line.
The 45 miles took five years to construct;
the line was opened in 1871 and was taken
over by the Government in 1873. It was ot
sft. 3in. gauge with rather ornate rolling-
stock, but it was converted to 3ft. 6in. m
1885. The Main Line (also built by a
private company) started in 1869 and
was opened in 1876.
* * * *
“Mouse”: A new process invented in
Britain permits the deposition of any metal
on any type of solid surface. Its main use
will be to build up worn machine parts,
thus obviating costly replacements. The
metal is applied by a spray pistol like that
used for painting or applying cement sur-
faces. A wire of the metal to be deposited
is fed into the pistol and liquefied by an
oxy-acetylene jet in the nozzle, whence it is
driven in spray by compressed air.


The Thrills of Motor Camping at aTrifling Cost
SPEND YOUR HOLIDAYS AND WEEK-
ENDS IN NATURE’S SURROUNDINGS.
' ' .V
JLN3X
dMMHnOi 0-0109
■
A MOTOR TENT YOU CAN STAND UPRIGHT IN IN AIM PARTS.
Guns
tre
Rifles
MODEL B MOSSBERG RIFLE. 22 calibre. Single shot bolt action. Extra
fine finish. 22in. barrel, ivory bead front sight, also rear sight. Strongly
constructed with special safety features. A remarkably good rifle
all through. Price, only
22/6
MODEL K MOSSBERG REPEATING RIFLE. Hammerless. Automatically
operated. Magazine capacity, 20 short or 16 long cartridges.
The most reasonably priced repeating rifle on the market. Price,
£4/15/
H. & R. FOLDING GUNS. Non-ejector. Fine black walnut stock. Hard
rubber butt plate. 22in. steel barrel. Weight, only about 4Jib. One easy
movement folds gun when not in use. Specially designed as a light, easily-
carried gun for the popular 410-gauge shell. No detachable
parts to be mislaid or lost. Price, only
£2/5/-
H. &R. SINGLE GUN. MODEL 1908. Automatic ejector. Fine black
walnut stock. Easily taken down by pulling off the snap fore-
end and unhooking the barrel from the frame. 30in. barrel,
£2/12/6
Enjoy to the Full—Fresh Air, Scenery, Fishing, Shooting, Swimming and
Surfing, etc. Secure your Auto Tent and Camping Equipment NOW. Use
it and be Healthy throughout the whole of the Summer.
THE GOLD-O KAR-KAMP TENT
Made from best-quality English Waterproof Duck.
Complete with Telescopic Poles, Spliced Guy Ropes and Steel Pegs.
NO EXTRAS TO BUY.
Single-sided Gold-0 Kar-Kamp Tents
(as illustrated).
One Compartment a Garage to completely cover car, and the other a large
Living-room, removable Partition between. Front Wall may be extended as an
awning.
C* _ 1O v 1 O Top, 15oz. Waterproof White Duck;
oize, iz. x Walls> 9oz Duck
Size, 15 X 15. Top, 15oz. Waterproof White Duck;
* Walls, 9oz. Duck
£9/10/-
£l2/10/-
SPECIAL CONCESSION TO “BULLETIN” READERS.
10 pet cent. DISCOUNT off Advertised Prices, also free Gift of
Three 3/6 Folding Camp Stools for Orders £5 and over in value.
AUTO TENTS—
Complete
with Telescopic Poles; Spliced Guy
Ropes and Pegs. NO EXTRAS TO
BUY. Easily erected or dismantled in
I 0 minutes.
«v
I
SINGLE-SIDED AUTO TENTS, w'ith sleeping compartment on one side.
Size—Width, 13ft. Width, 13ft.
Quality. Depth, 12ft. Depth, 15ft.
9oz. English Waterproof, Duck Top £5/17/6 £6/15/-
15oz. English Waterproof Duck Top £B/8/- £9/10/-
DOUBLE-SIDED AUTO TENTS, with sleeping compartment on each side.
Size—Width, 20ft. Width, 20ft.
Quality. Depth, 12ft. Depth, 15ft.
9oz. English Waterproof, Duck Top £B/10/- £9/10/-
15oz. English Waterproof, Duck Top £l3/10/- £l5/5/-
Goldman & Co., Ltd.
TENT SPECIALISTS. ’Phone B 5 748.
240 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Union House), SYDNEY
(Just below Bridge-Street). Also at 475 GEORGE STREET (Queen Victoria Buildings)
Write for Complete Illustrated Catalogue of Camping Equipment.
TECHNICAL BOOKS
FOR ALL TRADES
Price. Postage.
Farmers’ Handbook. New Edition, 1929. Published by Dept.
of Agriculture, N.S.W . 10/6 Bd.
Model Making. Including Workshop Practice, Design and Con-
struction of Models. Yates 15/- Bd.
Painting and Decorating—Working Methods. Textbook for
Apprentice, Journeyman, Housepainter and Decorator 12/6 9d.
The Human Figurfe. J. Vanderpoil 20/- Bd.
Cost of Power Production by Internal-combustion Engines. Burls. 6/6 4d.
Operating Engineer’s Catechism of Steam Engineering. Gornston. 16/- 6d.
Producer Gas. J. Dowson 26/- 1/-
Gas and Oil Engines. Treatise on Design, Construction and
Working of Internal-combustion Engines. By H. Allen .. 16/- 1/-
Practical Up-to-date Plumbing. Clow 7/6 6d.
Reinforced Concrete Construction. Elementary Principles.
Andrews 10/- 6d.
Concrete for House, Farm and Estate. Ballard 10/- 6d.
Sewerage Works. F. C. Temple 7/6 4d.
Galvanising. Theoretical and Practical Treatise. H. Bablik 16/- 9d.
Dynamos and Motors. Practical Testing. By C. Smith 10/- 6d.
Concrete Roads. Their Construction 6/6 6d.
House Painting. Decorating, Sign-writing, Gilding, etc. By
Ellwt 3/6 4d.
Cellulose Lacquers. Practical Handbook on their Manufacture.
Smith 9/- Bd.
Dyeing Silk. Mixed Silk Fabrics and Artificial Silks. Ganswindt 16/- 7d.
Dyeing of Cotton Fabrics. Handbook for the Dyer and Student.
Beech 16/- 9d.
Aerial Navigation and Meteorology. Comprehensive Treatise in
Simple Language. By Yancey 20/- 1/-
Ornamental Designs and Illustrations. For the use of Engravers,
Designers and Lovers of Art. Bergling 15/- l/»
Engineer's Year Book of Formulae, Rules, Tables, Data and
Memoranda for 1929. Kempe 36/- 1/8
Handbook of Building Construction. Data for Architects’ Design-
ing and Constructing Engineers and Contractors. Hool and
Johnson. In two vol§ 60/- 3/6
Aeroplanes, Seaplanes and Aero Engines. By Captain Sumner .. 30/- 1/2
Modern Wood-working Machinery. By S. Ransome 19/- 1/-
Preparatory Mathematics for the Building Trades. Bay and Doub 6/6 4d.
Reinforced Concrete. Concise Treatise. By Marsh . 15/- 9d.
Audel’s Handy Book of Practical Electricity, with Wiring
Diagrams. Ready Reference for Professional Electricians and
all Electrical Workers 20/- 1/-
Electric Control Gear and Industrial Electrification. By W. Wilson 30/- 1/3
Workshop Operations and Layouts for Economic Engineering
Production. Gates 10/- Bd.
Motor Cycling. J. Wyatt 3/6 4d.
Electrical Equipment of the Motor Car. By Moreton and Hatch 21/- 1/-
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
TECHNICAL BOOKSHOP,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
THE
Bellevue Hotel, Brisbane,
As a Going Concern
including the magnificent freehold and three-storeyed buildings, the modern
furnishings and working plant and equipment, the license, and the business.
BY AUCTION, ON THE PREMISES,
ON MONDAY, 16th DECEMBER, AT 11 a.m. SHARP.
Hempenstall Bros., Ltd.
AUCTIONEERS, have been favored with instructions from H. W. Webber,
Esq., who is retiring from business, to sell
A WONDERFUL PROPERTY WITH A WONDERFUL FUTURE.
Brail I
THE WHOLE OF THIS VALUABLE PROPERTY AND WELL-
ESTABLISHED BUSINESS on a walk-in-walk-out basis, with immediate
possession to the buyer. Over the last quarter of a century the Bellevue Hotel
has been built up by personal care and efficient management to be one of the
BEST KNOWN and MOST POPULAR FIRST-CLASS HOTEL businesses m
the State.
Situated as it is opposite the IMPOSING AND DIGNIFIED BUILDINGS
OF PARLIAMENT HOUSE and THE QUEENSLAND CLUB, with unsurpassed
views of the City Gardens on the one hand and the delightful reaches of the
Brisbane River on the other, it well deserves its reputation of being the most
ideally situated first-class hotel in the city.
It enjoys the possession of the largest area of land and pontage of any
first-class hotel in Brisbane, containing as it does TWO ROODS AND TWENTY-
EIGHT PERCHES, fronting three streets—George Street 148 ft., Alice Street
235 ft., William Street 76ft. The present buildings occupy about half these
frontages, leaving ample room for future expansion to all three streets.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your fancy, write
to the Manager, who will quote you price for the original.


CHRISTMAS GIFTS
AT
The House of Steel
No. 21—COMPLETE FOLDING MANICURE
SET, with Xylonite fittings, 03/- complete; or
with Pearl and Pearloid fittings, 84/- com-
plete, post free.
Ladies'Scissors Cast
LADY’S SCISSOR CASE. Made of Fine Roan
Leather, for Lasting Wear. Size when folded
about 6$ x 2J inches.
No. 6—4 pairs. Contains: 1 pair 7in. Cutting-
out Scissors, 1 pair Embroidery, 1 pair Nail
and 1 pair 4Jin. Lady’s Scissors, all Nickel-
plated, 35/- per case, complete. Post free.
LADY’S COMPANION, THE “COMPLETE
OUTFIT.” Size when closed, about Bin. x sin.
Covered with Best Roan Leather and Fine
Leather Lined; containing Best Steel 2-blade
Knife, 3 pairs Best Quality Nickel-plated
Scissors, Button Hook, Needles and other
fittings, ~>716 per ease, complete.
Morocco Case, 70/- complete, post free.
Post Free for Cash with Order.
INITIALS STAMPED ON CASES, 1/6
W. JNO. BAKER,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
HAIR
NEED
r
HERES
•umy -
t
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
SfroJUris CMEX/CAN)
iikUrud Sham.
♦removes the grey'
Sole Australian Agents;
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct M/6), 6d. being postage.
f§
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
m
il|g*j
m
IMM
l*i
H
Ik
Hi
n
Hi
li
li
li
Ii
BOYHOOD’S BEST DAYS
BUILDING WITH MECCANO
If you want your boy' to have the happiest
possible boyhood give him Meccano. If
you want him to be imaginative and
resourceful if you want his days to be
full of fun and thrills give him Meccano.
There is no other hobby in the world so
wonderful or so fascinating. He will be
able to build hundreds of working models
with his Meccano Outfit—Cranes, Bridges,
Conveyors, Aeroplanes, Cars, Loco-
motives and he will gain practical
engineering experience that will be of
inestimable value to him in later life. The
Meccano boys of to-day will be the famous
engineers of to-morrow.
Meccano, the most thrilling hobby in the
world, becomes more fascinating every
day. This year the Outfits are better than
ever, and never before have so many
models been shown in the Manuals of
Instructions.
Ask your dealer to show you the new
Meccano Outfits.
SEND FOR THIS
NEW MECCANO
BOOK—FREE
Beautiful illustrations show the
marvellous engineering models
that can be built with Meccano.
All Meccano Outfits are fully
described and many other interest-
ing details of this wonderful
hobby are given.
A FREE copy of this new Meccano
Book in exchange for the names
and addresses of three chums.
Write clearly and put No. 42 after
name, for reference.
E. G. PAGE & CO.,
{Dept. !)2),
Box IS32K, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
Please send me free copy
of Meccano Book. I en-
close names and addresses
of three chums.
PRICES OF MECCANO OUTFITS FROM 5/- TO 600/-
MECCANO
Wholesale Agents in Australia:
E. G. PAGE & CO. (Dept. 42),
52 Clarence Street, Sydney.
MANUFACTURED BY MECCANO, LTD., OLD SWAN, LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND.
C 4
o
'l i
' )<X
/'"S
sr
Si
Jl
Paid for in fuel
savings alone—
v
U
BOILERS
in kitchen or scullery, will provide all
the hot water needed for baths, etc.,
and assist the cooking stove.
50 gallons with 9 lbs. of coke
A Hot Bath for a Penny
Easily fixed—a size for every home.
Radiators can be attached for
warming rooms.
Write for booklet.
324-330
Pitt St.,
Sydney.
JOHN-
& SON-Pty.Ltd
391-403
Bourke St.,
Melbourne.
§
Modest Pride
the poorest gen-
will not take
tea from heavy, unbeautiful
cups. Her tea service stands
for caste not cost—light, deli-
cate, comely. Shelley Tea
Services are of varied prices
but of one quality: English
Bone China and Shelley
craftsmanship unite to ensure
this. The name of Shelley is
on every piece. There is a pat-
tern to please every lady’s taste
Ash to see the latest
SHELLEY
Tea Sets - Nursery Ware
Coffee Sets- /y Lucie Attweu
Morning Sets gHilda Cowham
Dainty White Domestic Ware
• China • Jelly Moulds
TRAVEL IN LUXURY
TO GLORIOUS
HOBART!
Nature has collected all
her most glorious trea-
sures and placed them in
Tasmania enthralling
scenery, rivers, lakes and
mountains, gorgeous
flowers and fruits, sport,
fishing, every conceivable
grandeur and happiness.
HOBART
lies in the midst of this
holiday paradise. It is
Australia’s most beautiful
capital—and you can
reach it easily, luxuriously
and economically.
The 7000-to‘n Zealandia
sails regularly from Syd-
ney to Hobart. Call on
Huddart-Parker, Ltd.—
choose your cabin—and
prepare for the most
“pleasureful” holiday of
your life.
Particulars from
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU,
Ocean House, 34 Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
ret
SCHUTE
BELL&Cud
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Office): 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.


7hp cen/pp of Qupens/crnc/s
' ofisLinguts/toc/ Soc/o/ Life.
WM
RDTCC
BRISBANE
Magnificent Ball-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disoosal ol
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, will?
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 578 0—10 Lines.
(
3*ll*B3*
m i
ST. GABRIEL'S SCHOOL, RED HILL, CAN HERR A.
The picture shows the two wings of this school, which was founded three vears ago, and at
first opened in temporary premises in the old Rectory of St. John’s, Canberra. It was opened
with a roll of only five children, while now there are ninety-four pupils attending the school.
Three other wings are to be added when funds are available, and it is also intended to erect
a chapel in the grounds. This is a daughter school of St. Gabriel’s, Waverley, which was
founded by the Sisters of the Church for religious and general education. St. Gabriel’s at
Canberra, which occupies 9-i acres of land, is to be conducted on the same lines, instruction
being given from the Kindergarten to Leaving Certificate Honors.
tinder*
Royal
Warrant
re
To H.NL
Kin£>
George V
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE {
CharlesTleidsieck
iiiai
Australasian Agrsnts
Swift & Company U mi tad
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGNE
Giaiifjsl leidsieov
Heims
,Ir fc«r (i I
iC?
PELLISSOIM
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
make a note
of this!
Last week Sydney slipped from its dun
hood of cloud and flaiinted its new season’s
sunshine complete with jacaranda. The
locusts struck up a chorus of admiration,
while from a balcony above Neutral Bay
this Letter saw the sun-spears strike the
dome of the Zoo and the black seal-sleek
roads' that run down from the heights to a
dozen little bays; saw roofs the color of
faded rose snuggling among green trees; saw
bright red roofs fling the defiance of youth
at the ardent sun; saw roses in great, clus-
ters upon trellis and pergola ; saw Cremorue,
like some overloaded snail, go sprawling into
a Port Jackson of vivid blue. Then some-
body brought out the paper, and Mr. Theo-
dore’s new taxes put a blight on the land-
scape. May the slugs eat up his Ivirribilli
garden!
But more than jacaranda will be glori-
ous this season of plentiful early rain. Never
did the Christmas bush promise a hea\ 7 ier
harvest, and where the calliopsis has run
wild there are fields of a yellow of extra-
ordinary richness. But always when it
thinks of jacaranda this Letter flies off to
the tree that stands solitary beside the
entrance to the grounds of James Burns’s
old home on the heights above Parramatta,
and it wonders whether the children at the
Burnside Homes alongside are taught to
drink in the beauty and the wonder of it.
During last week the highbrow and the
blue stocking dragged on the best hat and
made gay at parties to Isabel Fidler and
Miss M. A. Bailey. Miss Fidler has been
for years a tutor at the Women’s College
within the Uni, and Miss Bailey is the
popular principal of Ascham. The two now
face Europe and pleasant loiterings. Dr.
D’Arey hostessed one glad-rag group at the
Women’s Club, and Mrs. Mackinnon another
at the Queen’s. Miss Kidd and Dr. D’Arcy
shared the limelight at this second flutter,
being guests of honor in the second degree.
There’s no more fascinating doctor in
Sydney than Constance D’Arcy. She is
popular alike with women and men, and
she has such delicious dimples—they would
surely win her first place if a dimple com-
petition were started in Macquarie-street.
So Dr. Constance, who is the president of
the Uni. Women Graduates’ Association,
was elected in great triumph to a seat on
the University Senate last week, the only
woman thus chosen. Miss Kidd also sits
among the mighty, but she is the nominee
of the _ State Government. Dr. Constance
is president of the Women Workers’ Asso-
ciation, a vice-president of the National
Council of Women and a past president of
the A.T.N.A.
Incidentally, the election showed how
solidly _ retired Chief Justice Cullen main-
tains his hold on graduates: he led the group
whose figures towered above the rest—a
group consisting of Mungo MacCallum, Dr.
Bradfield and Acting-C.J. Ferguson: wherein
you may read gratitude for great services,
admiration for high attainments and affec-
tion for great ability combined with charm
of manner and disposition.
Honor will be given to Mrs. Kate Dwyer
when the women’s organising committee of
the A.L.P. holds its silver jubilee on Novem-
ber 30. Mrs. Dwyer, who has been Labor's
foremost woman for the last 30 years, and
has .sat on countless commissions and i,n-
quiries, organised the committee; she had
to fight the A.L.P. for four years for recogni-
tion. One of the three Golding sisters who
were pioneers of womanhood suffrage in the
days of Rose Scott and Mrs. Martel, she
has the satisfaction of seeing the general
acceptance of most of what were regarded as
visionary ideas when she first advocated
them.
This Letter sends its sympathy to Dr.
Radford, Anglican Bishop of Goulburn,
whose wife died in Sydney last week after a
long illness.
There’s been ferment in the ranks of the
Feminists. A number of the members wish
to carry on under the old banner, but nearly
as great a number want to go over to the
L'nited Association, under which title most
of the other semi-political and social-uplift
women’s societies have banded. The Femin-
ists finally took a vote on the matter the
other day, and while 41 were for the joining
up of forces 55 were against it; so, finance
permitting, the club will carry on business
as usual at. the old address. Founder and
former president Miss Preston Stanley no
doubt rejoices over the decision.
From a correspondent who should know: —
It is a crying scandal that adolescent girls should
be drawn from the outer suburbs to receive their
education at the Crown-street Intermediate High
School. Surely the Minister can't be aware that
some of the lowest brothels in Sydney are within
a stone’s-throw of this place! Yet a walk down
Campbell-street on any afternoon, as the girls are
returning home, and a talk with the police would
convince him of it. As I passed this very day a
lady was petting a fuddled wastrel, and at the
entrance to Little Rilev-street three young women
were offering their services to passing men. On the
opposite side a fat person in a flaming red dress, a
thin, sore-eyed lady in black and a half-caste Chinese
lounged in their respective doorways, and, by word
or gesture, invited the stranger to share Eve’s
apple. If there is no other accommodation for girls
of this most impressionable age, the police should
at least take steps to keep the streets clean while
pupils are on their way to and from school.
The menus and toast lists at the Sydney
Publicity Club’s first dinner-dance chuckled
along with a fine assortment of rules for Ye
Ancient Order of Trumpet Blowers. One
motto read: “Though there is starch in our
shirt fronts, let there be none in our souls.”
This seemed to win first place as the slogan
of the evening, and the affair ran smoothly
on wheels oiled with good fellowship. The
club lias about 150 members, all of them
keen young advertising men and women, who,
judging by their work on the Dungowan
floor the other night, have a passion for jazz
layouts. Vincent McCarthy was chairman
at the official table, and a nice Mrs. Mc-
Carthy, in jacaranda-blue georgettes, was
more than half of his success ; and the wife
of club-secretary Cosman Shaw wore blue
laces to the best advantage.
A group of women seeing with their brain
through the eyes of one sympathetically-
interested committee member was a touching
picture at the cabaret in aid of the Blind
Institute. Strictly speaking the institute does
not benefit, but because of it the 130 work-
ers at the Industrial Blind Institution will
have a merrier Christmas than otherwise
they might. Little dancing girls, some of
them as old as three or five, had been woven
into a ballet by Frances Scully, and they
trundled and tripped it o’er the lee or the
port side with equal charm. These little
Dutch dolls with their muslin caps were
delicious, and the rest of the room was in a
state of suspended animation while they
added their frieze to the afternoon. Dorothy
Benbow’s singing, too, was pleasant to tin-
ear. Mrs. Clifford Bunce was mainly respon-
sible for netting the 700 present. There will
be £l3O or so to spend on Christmas fair-
ings for the blind workers of William-street.
That goodwill-to-man feeling made an early
call on the Women’s Country Club last week
and embodied itself in a glittering address
for president Mrs. George Irvine. Mrs.
Irvine has been a tower of strength to the
club, and when Miss F. Cunningham handed
over the scroll, with a cluster of pink car-
nations and hydrangeas, there was such a
salvo of handclaps that a man in the street
below turned up his collar and said : “Damn
this hail!” Mrs. E. R. Bourko and Mrs.
Malcolm Ross arranged the pretty compli-
ment, and the club songbirds and musicians
served it with music.
A feeling for music runs in families, and
from one Petersham home come two very
gifted sis-
ters, Lmda
and .Claire
Hartge. Linda,
the subject of
this picture,
besides being
a talented
pianist, pos-
sesses a con-
tralto voice in
which sym-
pathy and the
spiritual note
blend in an
unusual de-
gree. As well
as specialising
in oratorio
work, Linda
is a soloist at
St. Patrick’s
on Church
Hill, and each
Sunday the
’cello-like voice hymns its way to the vaulted
dome. To her sister Claire’s violin Linda
supplies the piano accompaniments at
numerous concerts and in the broadcasting
studio.
You were surrounded by atmosphere the
other night when you got to the Nieuw Hol-
land for the “Night in Java” ball, for the
moment your foot reached the deck some
ardent worker sold you a Javanese fan.
Oriental ship-attendants gave the effect of a
colored chorus in a musical comedy whose
principals, a party of British tourists, were
indulging in a spectacular ball scene. There
was just enough sense of unreality about the
flutter to make for romance. And to provide
imagination for the unimaginative the aid of
the film had been invoked, and “A Trip
through Java” was screened on deck for all
to see.
The dance was really the week’s success,
and the Queen Victoria Homes for Con-
sumptives at Thirlmere and Wentworth Falls
received an overwhelming response to their
first public appeal. Over 700 dancers came
to the party, and as the Royal Packet Navi-
gation Co. not only lent its fine ship, but gave
the supper and supplied the orchestra, the
committee wore the happy faces of those who
have been well done by.
Captain Bauer, very proud of his craft,
stood in spotless white beside the Kelso Kings
and Charles Rosenthals to greet the vicc-
regals, who turned up in full force. Lady
de Chair was draped in roseate chiffons
mingled with silver lame, and daughter
Elaine wore the glad black moire of the
moment. Black satin shone with the rare
lustre of anthracite on both the Kelso King
and Rosenthal ladies. Black lace swung in
graceful unevenness about the heels of Mrs.
Victor White and secretary Mrs. Harrie Vale,
while Commander Quick’s blue-eyed wife
wore Rliine-green chiffons and Clarice Faith-
full Anderson emerged impressively from
rose and silver brocade. Shirley Dent was
one of the night's pretty creatures in a
powder-blue moire, and Mrs. Joel Hudson,
wife of the American Acting-Consul, was in
vivid contrast to her delft-blue frock. Cecilo
Wale'y, in ivory and gold, was something to
attract the eye; Mrs. H. G. Fisher’s black
frock was shot with steel entanglements, and
Helen Hughes's daffodil chiffons floated
through the night like a spring song. Mrs.
Arthur Scrivener, in blue moire, was another
who walked the deck and took a chance at
the putting competition in the music-room.
The flowers were particularly beautiful. They
had been sent in profusion from the gardens
>f Miss Macarthur Onslow at Camden Park
and of Mrs. Charles Smith at Gordon.
Cranbrook School has been exceptionally
lucky in the organisers of its yearly fete.
Before Mrs. Alexander Gordon avent to Eng-
land she worked up the first one, which in
a single afternoon netted over £lOOO. That
set the standard. Mrs. C. N. Gunther and
Mr s. Fre d
Allen followed
as organisers,
and u n d e r
their direction
the f§te con-
tinued a great
money - maker.
This year
again Cran-
brook is bless-
ed, for in addi-
tion to Mrs.
Allen, the live-
wire in this
picture, Mrs.
L. A. Lister,
is skippering
the fair, which
will be held
on the Cran-
brook sports
ground on
December 7.
The tea tent
and Mary’s garden are Mrs. Lister’s parti-
cular charges.
Thanks to the Royal Dutch Packet Co.,
there’ll be a kiddies’ party on the Nieuw
Zeeland in aid of the District Nursing Asso-
ciation on December 20. The steamer will
be at Dalgety’s Wharf, Miller’s Point.
Alplionsine McCrone, a tall, good-looking
Temora girl, became Mrs. Bruce Staniforth
within gt. Mary’s midway through last week.
Ivory georgette and Chantilly floated about
the bride, a feature of the frock being its
graceful cape of georgette glittering with
diamente. H'er tulle veil was of hedge-
rose pink, and drifted into a froth of train
that was followed by sister Alvira in a
frock of daffodil georgettes and a coronet
of wallflowers. Wallace Staniforth best-
manned, and after Dean Crowley had tied
the knot past all undoing, the whole com-
pany made merry at the Australia under
the direction of Mr. and Mrs. Robert Mc-
Crone, the latter in frocking of de luxe black
lace, as befitted the wife of the squire of
Bungambil.
Jeanette Nicholson, of Roseville, was one
of the few brides of last week. She was
married in her own home, where gay Dorothy
Perkins smiled and dimpled. Norman
Nicholson handed his sister over to Christo-
pher L. Bennett, of New South Head-road,
and in a frock of white georgette and lace
topped by a hat of natural Baku she was
attended by one ’maid in diaphanous blues
and pinks. Keith Bennett, brother of the
’groom, best-manned. The bride’s mother
presided over the wedding meats, which were
served in the billiard-room of Bindea.
Reg Solomon and Wynne Hewison sought
the King’s School’s Chapel for their wedding
the other night. Schooldays must be a
happy memory with this young King School
man, for the padre who tied the knot was
the Rev. A. J. Rolfe, principal of Malvern
College, where his early school days were
spent, and assisting was King’s chaplain H.
Frewtrell; The bride wore her white georg-
ettes frilled from the hem upwards. The
skirt was long all the way round, but not
quite so long in front as at the back. The
usual backwash of tulle was followed by
sister Elizabeth (who came from England to
join in the procession) and Lois Booth,
studies both in primrose yellows and greens.
Party at the home of the ’groom’s parents
at Hunter’s Hill, as the Hewison family
shifted camp to England about a year ago.
Dorothy Hopkins, Hop’s youngest daughter
and his biographer, with poetess Ruth Bed-
ford, was the honored of the Society of Women
Writers at lunch last week. The collec-
tion of reminiscences and letters with its
thread of story is the first work of its kind
to bo done by an Australian woman. But
this Letter has a Hop story that is not
included in the book just published. One
morning the artist came to this Letter’s door.
There was a look of battle in his eye. “Did
you,” he asked, “meet an impertinent fellow
on the landing? Well, he came across to
my room and thumped on the door. I took
no notice for a few seconds. Then he rattled
it. When I answered, the fellow .said : ‘l’m
looking for Mr. So-and-So. You look as
though you’ve been asleep!' I closed the
door in his face.” said Hop. "Then I
thought of a crushing rejoinder. But when
I opened the door to fire it at him the brute
had (tone /” Ruth Bedford’s book. “Fairies
and Fancies,” is now in print and should
be on the Sydney bookstalls before Christ-
mas.
Every record has been broken in the
Bakewell v. Bakewell divorce suit. The case
has occupied over 31 Court-sitting days:
costs will run into well over £10,000;
evidence covered 2000 typewritten sheets;
exhibits put in numbered 80; and Mrs.
Bakewell’s counsel took three days to deliver
his address. And such is the sweet simpli-
city of the laws man has made for us that
whatever decision is come to is pretty sure
to he contested.
Last Sunday in one home at Rose Bay
there was no talk of “this freedom.” Mr. and
Mrs. David Davis have been 60 years mar-
ried, and their eight children, nine grand-
children and two great-grandchildren gath-
ered at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Nable
(Mrs. Nable is a daughter) to celebrate the
event. It is 65 years ago since Mr. Davis
came to Australia in the Asiatic, the jaunt
taking him just one hundred days longer than
it took Bert Hinkler the other week. The fir* l
at St. Mary’s, the wreck of the Dunbar,
Cobb’s coaches and Ben Hall are among
the vivid memories retained by these good
Australians, the one 84, the other 79 years
happy.
That nice, tall Gilbert Hughes, who wears
is clothes so well, and for such a big chap
manipulates a tea-table so easily, will be
missed from wedding and arty frivols for the
next 12 months. He travels to Europe with
mother (Mrs. John Hughes), sister Mary
and cousin Barbara Lane Mullins.
Those gay caravaners Betty and Joan
Itayner, with mother for chaperon, are now
touring the South Coast. They were deter-
mined to bring the activities of the T.O.Y.
Theatre under the notice of the South Coast-
ers. Also perhaps they were influenced by
the fact that Christmas holiday-time gener-
ally means a child-deserted city, whereas
holiday-makers by the sea are keen on even-
ing diversions. Anyway, the little company
has gone off, and will do its own bill-posting
as well as its own cooking and driving. Be-
fore the journey started Graham de Chair
christened the caravan J.O.Y. amid the roses
of Centennial Park. And, of course, as milk
is inseparable from roses in the complexion
of all happy infants, a bottle of Dr. Arthur’s
beverage was spilt over the argosy.
Arthur Adams blinked shyly the other day
at his latest novel, “A Man’s Life,” which
has just arrived in the bookshops. It was
written when Arthur was in London last
year, and is said to be very compelling. Well
written it is almost sure to be, for Arthur
has always been a stylist.
There’s been a very interesting nursery in
Sydney this week. Two of the seals in the
Zoo had a visit from the Stork (who livfes
just over the brow of the hill) almost simul-
taneously. Last time such a thing happened
mother and infant were left on the rocks
surrounding the big pond, and the poor
child was drowned. For unless you’re born
a fish it seems that water is an acquired
taste. It was months and months before
Mrs. Polar Bear could get her offspring to
wet its toes. Day after day she led the
little ball of white fluff up to the brink and
splashed and splashed ; then one fine morning
Ma playfully nudged the three-months-old
infant and they fell in together. But it was
weeks still before the flapper was sure she
liked it. To climb back to the seals, this
time one end of the big pool was drained,
leaving only the crevices filled; and it seems
to make an ideal nursery. Certainly the in-
fants do get mixed, and the mothers are
not sure they ’’trust one another, so there’s
enough bellowing to stock a Northern Terri-
tory cattle camp. But that’s apparently all
in a seal’s life.
OVERHEARD.
The Talkative One : “Doris is quite mad on germs.
She sterilises every bit of food and Alters every
drop of water —I wonder her husband stands it.”
The Tired One: “Oh, I suppose she strains their
relations, too.”


n.Trmxi
in".i in
lIMIII
ill" Ml
II lIIM'IJ
IHI
Z
JO
O 6
/0
%
;S:
."•hii'Vi'
V*
*’
mill,,
liiiim <
11*»i Hll
l lilt Ml J
uniiH
llimi
1'
«
t-
%
Bottled and
Guaranteed
by Cl LBEYS.
Our signature
on tke label is
'oar Bond and
your Protection.
: *
■
tfr /
1
SflU
3
ill
SI
DRY^CTN
DONT SAY GIN-SAT GILBEY’S


c
-sss&^s
(ft
>ft
o
V
<V vS> „<£’ >V
«*V
Sts#®?
O v
PVX
i>..e>
S
Accommodation
160.
Central,
Comfortable,
Convenient,
a Mts. G.P.O
Excellent
Cuisim
Billiards,
Da noins.
ORIENTAL HOTEL
(No License)
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
TARIFF:
Weekly,
£3/3/- to
£4/4/-
Daily,
11/6 to 12/6.
Room & B’fast.
8/6 to 9/6
FL2034
F 3575
IT SELLS AT SIGHT.
THE NEW
PROBATE INSURANCE!
Under ordinary conditions £lOOO Probate Insurance costs
the proposer, aged 50 years, over a period of 10 years,
£425/8/4.
The NEW PROBATE policy covers the same
risk for 10 years for £l6O.
Write Pacific Underwriters,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney, ..**
for full particulars.
,d\
o*S
°V 4 '
A 0 .ArVVx®
r,c e
AJ'rta* ' V'
„ J:ao v ,v- ,
# C ,° , \V>
r \VV<O '-ft* '
%> %.
Startling Innovations at
n
m
reps'
Dancing till 1 a.m.
EVENING DRESS OPTIONAL.
A La Carte Service.
Minimum Charge 7/6.
Afternoon and Evening
Mr. Ernest C. Rolls’s New York
Cabaret Revue.
Popular Cabaret Teas
Monday to Friday ..... 2/6
Saturday 4/-
'Phone M 4131 for your reservation.
Merry Christmas!
by AVRTTIHUR GIROOM
ILLUS'TDATED BY HARPY J. WEXTON
Synopsis: Sandy Jaclcson, tired of
looking for work and utterly broke in
Brisbane, decides to get back to fami-
liar surroundings, as far west as
possible. Pratten, commercial traveller,
refuses him a lift in Queen-street, and
Sandy crawls into the small space in
the back of the car. He is undis-
covered, and the car, which Pratten
is not used to driving, starts out for
Toowoomba. On the way Pratten
takes a corner too sharply and crashes
into an embankment. Sandy, semi-con-
scious, is discovered, and induces the
commercial to take him with him, on
condition that he will look after the car
and sleep in it at night. On the first
night a drunk comes to the car, and
Sandy engineers him out of two bottles
of lager and a bottle of rum. Next
morning Pratten is annoyed to find his
car littered with empty bottles and
mutton bones, but they go on to Clon-
curry, where Sandy meets his old
friend Jim Walters, and accepts a
job to go with him to Boolgooroo
station. Reaching the station, Jim .
Walters meets an addition, a city girl,
who is looking after the store, and
whose name, station-owner Jack Hin-
ton tells him, is Helen Delaney. Her
presence embarrasses Walters, but
Sandy, who has brought a souvenir
pair of jazz garters with him, has
} A, st enough respect for her to get the
hands interested in the burning ques-
tion of whether she wears such things.
CHAPTER IX.
Sandy Starts a Competition.
SANDY JACKSON’S first Sunday back
on Boolgooroo altered things.
For almost half an hour he listened
to Jim Walters talking to a group on the
kitchen steps. Seven men sat on the stairs
waiting for breakfast, though it was not
yet sunrise. When Jim Walters ceased and
went off to his quarters, Sandy Jackson
elected himself speaker immediately.
“Now, Jim’s told you birds a lot of
sense,” he declared brightly, “and I’m goin’
to tell you about a corker stunt I got to
brighten up to-day a lot. We want to get
every bird in the hut to enter. It’s a
competition—see—an’ we’ll get ’em all an’
sundry to dub in a couple of bob each,
an’ the winner’ll hang on to the flamin’ lot.”
The breakfast bell called loudly and
Sandy’s small audience disappeared along
with Sandy himself into the dining-room.
Other men dawdled in from the hut.
“I was proposin’,” he continued when the
first hungry rush of breakfast had eased a
little, “I was proposin’ just now that we’d
have a Jazz Garter Guessin’ Competition.”
“A whatter?” The cook, standing in the
doorway, appeared startled and mystified.
“In other words,” Sandy continued,
“we’ll have a competition for guessin’ an’
givin’ a true an’ faithful description of the
jazz garters what this Miss Delaney wears.
You got to write down ’proximate size,
etcetera, color, what sort of pattern’s on
’em, an’ all other vital partic’lars.”
“But what’s the idea of the competi-
tion?” a tall stockman asked.
“To teach you birds observation,” Sandy
answered. “Fancy me cornin’ here day
before yesterday, an’ you blokes none of
you seen the lady’s handbag or her jazz
garters—you go an’ call ’em shanghai rings!
Shanghai rings, me eye!”
Sandy Jackson subsided
into a plate of stew, then
suddenly started again.
“We’ll extend the com-
petition into one grand
event,” he continued eagerly. “I showed
you birds what was in that li’le
handbag last night. Miss Delaney’s got a
toy frog for a handbag. We’ll make the
competition five bob entry, the winner
takes the lot, an’ we’ll extend closin’ time
till to-morrow tea time.”
“But you don’t know what’s in her bag?”
the cook protested.
Sandy appeared puzzled, and his large
coat bunched itself up all over his back.
“I’ll arrange all that,” he declared after
a pause. “I’ll perdooce all partic’lars of
what she’s got in her handbag, an’ have
’em by to-morrow night.”
“That’s no guarantee!” the cook pro-
tested again.
“Well, if I ain’t got necessary partic’lars
by to-morrow night I’ll spend me first
week’s pay in rum for the mob!”
Criticism and remarks flew across the
breakfast table. The more the men argued
over the proposal the more they became
interested in it. By the end of the meal
seventeen men had entered for the competi-
tion. Twelve others could not be per-
suaded to enter.
“It’ll be quite enough for me to write the
description,” the cook announced when
finality had almost been reached. “If Sandy
tries to write it we’ll never know what’s
in the handbag.”
In the bachelors’ quarters breakfast was
very quiet, orderly, and dry with the com-
monplace remarks of Donald Campbell.
The two jackeroos seemed to think of
eating and little else.
When breakfast was finished a pigeon-
toed blackboy walked across from Mr.
Hinton’s residence.
“Boss been look-all-about for you,” he
addressed Jim Walters. “Him been yabber
him wan tern you quick feller.”
“Good!” Jim Walters rose with a breath
of relief. He had been waiting for the
summons. His eagerness was not so much
to see Hinton as to speak, if possible,
to Helen Delaney. He had been intro-
duced to her the evening before in a dim
light; and she had disturbed him more than
he realised. He felt curious. He wanted
to talk to her alone, to study her, and per-
haps the opportunity had come.
Mr. Hinton’s study was bare and neat
The only decoration was a parched abori-
ginal’s skull which acted as a pen rest.
Greetings were exchanged as Jim Walters
entered the room; and the two men tossed
off a small glass of rum each.
“Well, James,” Mr. Hinton said, “I’ve
mapped out your course for the next few
months.”
“How does it go?”
“You’ll take Marchmont’s place, of course
—just the same plant, men and everything.
There are a few thousand cattle knocking
around within driving distance of the home-
stead yards. It’s only scarcity of water
that’s brought them in like this. You can
brand here for the next month, right in the
yards; but you’ll have to be careful, James.
You’ll have cattle weak from drought mixed
up with those damn wild sort that’ll never
lose energy at all, no matter what the
season.”
“How long do you expect that to take
us?” Jim Walters asked.
“Can’t say. There’s a lot of work to do.
I’ve been putting it off, waiting for rain;
but it seems that’s useless. Dulacca Downs
got good rain six months ago; but we’ve
registered only seventeen points during the
last twenty months. There are only about
five holes on the run holding water, and
most of the bores are working full shifts.”
“Where is the No. 2 stock-camp?” Jim
Walters asked.
“Right away down on Southern Creek.
Been there four months, on and off. Fowler’s
in charge. He’s only got seven white men
and he’s on easy country. You’ll have
twelve whites in your camp.”
“Then to-morrow morning I start brand-
ing here at the homestead?”
“Yes.” Mr. Hinton toyed with the empty
glass before him. “Care for another?”
“Right,” Walters agreed; “and it’ll have
to be the last for—God knows how long!”
The two men toasted, and were in the
act of drinking when Helen Delaney
knocked and entered the room in the one
instant. She appeared surprised, apologised
softly and went from the room as silently
as she had entered.
“What do you think of her?” Mr. Hinton
asked suddenly as the girl’s footsteps died
away along the verandah.
“Er—well, I don’t quite know,” Jim
Walters replied. He was conscious of a
desire to ask a hundred questions concern-
ing her.
“She’s a fine girl,” Mr. Hinton announced
with enthusiasm. “She makes a damn fine
companion for the wife, a little lady in
every way, but with those few funny ideas
of hers about equality of sexes, and all that.
Now, that bottle of rum and those glasses
there—she’d argue openly that those spell
ruin; yet when she wants to she can beat
me at the drawback with a cigarette. It
shows a streak of narrow-mindedness, I
reckon.”
“Really, I haven’t had time to study
her,” Jim Walters said. “Last night she
was mostly in the shadow”
“They’re in there now—the two of them.
You’d better come in and hear some of my
latest records.”
CHAPTER X.
Enter Helen Delaney.
Mr. Hinton possessed the mind of a
musician, and no ability to bring his music
out in concrete form. So he had set up
HELEN DELANEY.
a first-class gramophone and collected a
large number of the finest records procur-
able.
First, he put on a record of church
chimes, perhaps with the idea of showing
respect for his wife’s observance of Sunday
morning; then he commenced to play a
series of fine piano pieces.
Jim Walters found he had an opportunity
of studying both Helen Delaney and Mrs.
Hinton. Mrs. Hinton he had known for
years, so he chose Helen Delaney without
hesitation. She sat in a path of soft light
which flowed in between cream curtains.
She appeared no more than twenty-two
years old. She was of average height and
had the build of. so many healthy Aus-
tralian girls. He imagined her, not dressed
in the shimmering grey which she now
wore, but in a sporting costume, running
wild on a hockey field and shouting eagerly
at the heat of the game. He imagined her
watching the ball, following it with marvel-
lously quick movements, using her brains
without effort to overcome the opposing
side. He could see her put a hand to he?
forehead and brush away a wisp of hair
which had escaped from its bandeau, just
as it now strayed while she listened deeply
to the notes of the gramophone.
Perhaps she could ride. She looked a
natural horsewoman, and, as he thought, his
eyes strayed to her hands. They were
white and well kept, but strong. They
would be capable hands. Her feet were
rather small, and he wondered whether that
really was an asset in a woman. He tried
to discover her ears, but they were buried
in that mass of brown hair which would
not keep still—it took such a tiny breeze
to disturb it! She was just the type of
girl to pull her hat down hard, stamp her
feet with an expression calculated to shock
many, and do it all with a disarming smile.
Jim Walters scarcely noticed the changed
record, nor the violin solo which filled the
room. He saw Helen Delaney lean a little
forward in eager recognition, and fell to
watching her mouth —the way it parted
just the least bit. He saw the half-hidden
smile of appreciation which flitted over
her face now and then, and the sparkle
of her brown eyes. She would be a girl
with a mind of her own, and methods to
support it. Yes, that was it. Above all,
she had determination.
The record came to an end and Mr.
Hinton rose and stopped the machine.
“The world will never tire of that piece,
Walters,” he declared.
“I’ve often dreamt of an island of
music,” Jim Walters answered slowly, and
became conscious of Miss Delaney’s
steady gaze. “I v/ould have a beauti-
ful cathedral built there and made
more beautiful with music.”
“You’re asking for a lot, aren’t you, Mr.
Walters?” Helen Delaney straightened a
little with the question. They were her
first words to him since her quiet greeting
at his entry into the room.
“The world is continually asking,”
Walters replied a little uneasily. Her
openness upset him a little. “I’m always
asking. Everything we do, I think, is a
form of asking.”
“And what do we ask for?” Helen
Delaney leant forward in quick attention.
“Praise and riches, mostly; though I
admit that we generally cloak our peti-
tions.”
Miss Delaney thought a moment with
her head tilted quaintly, then she smiled
as though in slight ridicule.
“Please put on another violin solo,
Uncle,” she said, and added quaintly, “Sun-
dajr is my day off, Mr. Walters.”
Jim Walters grinned, because he knew
of nothing else to do. He vaguely felt
that he had not made a very favorable
impression, and that she looked upon him
rather as she would regard a “hot-air
merchant” speaking from a soap-box.
He felt relieved when Jack Hinton pro-
posed morning tea. The atmosphere be-
came more homely. Mrs. Hinton beamed
(Continued on page 51.)


The Wonder Watch of the Age
V Wearing Winds it !
Simply wear it as and when you will upon
your wrist and it goes and Never Stops. Off
your wrist, it will keep going for 34 hours.
It is Dustproof, Damp-proof and cannot Over-
wind. No wonder folk hail as the latest,
greatest, and final refinement in watchmaking
The Harwood
SELF-WINDING
Wrist Watch
Sol/ Agmtsfit Australasia ; ARONSON & CO., (PTY.) LIU. HOLT HOUSE. YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
»
tre
To
enhance
ijour beauty
OEAUTY of face is best
framed in a wealth of
charming hair. Make the most of your
hair as a background for your beauty by
using Rowland’s Macassar Oil twice a day.
Comb the oil well into your hair, when it
wi.l show the gloss of health, and weak
and falling hair will be a thing of the past.
ss»
Oj all Chemi&ls
Stores and Hair-
dressers. Red
for dark hair,
Golden for fair
or grey hair.
, Wand’s
Macas§arOiS
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.1.,
ENGLAND.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Ten Rooms
[?] Contral 800[?]
Buckley &[?]
The invasion engineered by the ’Frisco
Chamber of Commerce, which has set 325
100-per-cent. Americans representative of 26
States a-sailing Southern Seas, reached Port
Melbourne in the Malolo on Thursday. The
rain held off for a bit while a civic welcome
was accorded in the open under the shadow
of the equestrian statue of the late Edward
VII. in the Alexandra Gardens. By careful
navigation of the 82 cars that conveyed the
visitors, the dingy parts of the direct route
to the rendezvous were avoided, the way
including a bit of South Melbourne and St.
Ivilda beach, and lay along tree-lined St.
Kilda-road. After an exchange of greetings
between the Bud Mayor and the leader of
the tour, C. C. Moore, the freedom of the
city was handed to the visitors, who motored
off in various directions to enjoy the privi-
lege. Official luncheons were tabled by
sundry bodies, including the Chamber of
Commerce. In the afternoon knight James
Elder, once our Trade Commissioner in
’Murca, and the Elder lady, served a dish
of tea to some 60 of these folk. While most
of the sightseers were on shore there was a
mighty rush of the public to see how they
lived aboard. The agents for the liner
issued invitations for a private inspection,
but put too much faith in the invited by
marking the tickets “and party.” Not only
did whole families come, but they were joined
by relatives and neighbors in shoals, and
they pushed and scrambled all over the ship.
The tourists themselves are drawn from
many walks of life, but they seem a happy
family—as they put it themselves, they are
mostly “good mixers.”
After a few hours of taking notes of Mel-
bourne and its near-at-hand suburbs and
hills, most of the Malolo’s complement
accepted the hospitality of the E.S.U. for "a
ball at the St. Ivilda Plaza. They made a
sort of state entrance, and there was
quite a guard of honor of inhabitants _ to
see them arrive, no doubt expecting to view
the flashing jewels of many a millionairess.
But such hopes were doomed to disappoint-
ment The Malolo crowd doubtless owns
a lot of money, but it isn’t trying to
dazzle this fair land with opulent displays.
The guests’ gowns dipped and flared in
the same way as they have been worn here
all this season, and they showed us no
innovations.
President and vice-presidents of the E.S.TJ.
lined up to extend the jovial right hand, and
Mayor and Mayoress Luxton stood at the
elbow of knight Arthur Robinson, the pre-
sident. The Robinson lady nursed a sheaf
of crimson roses against a white satin gown
traced with lines of diamente. Mrs. Luxton
mingled black chiffon and lace in her frock.
The D- G. Lumsdens were there, she wear-
ing draperies of bronze and gold lace; also
the Donald M'ackinnous and Mrs. Harold
Clapp, w'hose silver shoes appeared beneath
the drooping points of her biscuit chiffon
gown. U.S.A. Consul-General Garrels, joined
in the welcoming with Mrs. Garrels, who was
wrapped about in deep lilac georgette. Inci-
dentally, regret was expressed at the just-
announced transfer to Tokio early next
year of Mr. Garrels, who has been here
sinee October, 1926.
An interesting woman among the visitors
is A.enone Yackey, who has been an assistant
editor of the Ladies’ Home Journal. Dark-
haired, bright and youthful, she trailed an
outsize in Chinese embroidered shawls over
an apple-green frock when this Chatterei
made her acquaintance.
The platform of the Town Hall had an
unusual air of dignity on Saturday night, due
to an opulent spread of red carpet, an array
of gilded chairs and a throne which stood
out strikingly against the Queensland maple
panelling of the organ and choir stalls. Ihe
occasion was the coronation of a Queen ot
Charity” as the result of a competition
conducted to help the Womens Hospital.
Headed by some 30 boys from St. James s
and St. John’s choirs in red soutanes, the six
aspirants to the throne, each with five maids
of honor, two peers and a couple of pmk-
petal-f rocked flower girls, moved in pro-
cession up the aisle to a fanfare of trumpets
and wild applause from a full house, h lederick
Blackman, of the Firm, stage-managed the
pageant, and J.C.W. also lent most of the
wardrobe and properties. Pretty white and
crystal beaded frocks worn m the musical
comedy “Prince Charming” were sported by
most of the Queen candidates and their
attendants. Mrs. Barry Thompson, nominee
of the movies, who topped the poll at nearly
every week-end but was out-voted _at the
finish, wore a mauve gown with a glistening
train. Her maids were in pastel-tinted
gowns and her flower-scatterers wore quaint
frilled white muslin frocks. Mrs. William
Murrell, who represented racing, had her
supporting ladies in pink and blue. A pro-
clamation was impressively read by actor
Herbert Leigh, after which Lud Mayor
Luxton stepped up from the front row stalls
to place the diadem on the brow of Agnes
Fogarty, candidate of the railways, for whom
votes worth over £2BOO had been purchased,
which looks like another instance of the
efficiency of the service controlled by Harold
Clapp. The final count brought the penny-
worths up to 2,670,289, giving the hospital
over £ll,OOO. A. V. Ivewney, secretary of
the V.R.C., gathered in £1262 for the racing
candidate in the last week.
After the ceremony there was an adjourn-
ment to the Mayor’s room, and dainty gold
bar brooches, each bearing a wee crown, were
presented on behalf of the W. H. Appeal
committee to the six competitors, who in-
cluded Gwen Corrigan (housewives), Kate
Harrison (football) and Doris Scott (tram-
ways). George Smith, of the J.C.W. organi-
sation, was among others who received
mementoes, and there were thanks all round
and champagne. The Uni. Con. was responsible
for the musical programme arranged as first
half of the entertainment. Members of the
committee of the hospital added a bit to the
taking by running flower and sweet stalls.
As £lOO,OOO is required for new buildings
for the hospital these energetic workers have
a long way to go yet.
The South Melbourne branch of the
Homoeopathic Hospital got a splendid finan-
cial return from a bridge party at Prince s
Cafe, Howey-place, last week. The presi-
dent, Mrs. H. A. Layfield, who is Mayoress
of South Melbourne ; Mrs. Cornish, hon. sec.,
and Mrs. J. Dwyer, who ruled the exchequer,
headed the organising committee.
The services of their mothers and feminine
relatives were enlisted by the girls attend-
ing St. Catherine’s at Heyington-place to
raise the money required for fixing up a
new hockey field. The grown-ups furnished
and presided at the stalls which figured in
a garden fete held in the school grounds the
other day. Under the appellation “The
Seven Ages of Woman,” all feminine tastes
were catered for, and the entertainments
included a merry-go-round and a dance in
the school hall in the evening. The students
did physical drill and costume dances.
A show of pictures which will hang on
the walls of the Athenaeum Gallery until
December 7 is
that of Clarice
Beckett, her
pictured. It h
some time
since the
young artist
held a single-
handed exhibi
tion, but her
c o ntribution;
to such shows
as those of the 1
Women’s Art
Club have
proved her t<
be forging
ahead, and sh;
has been sell
ing her pic
tu res. Land
scape and still
life in oil
comprise hei
latest offer-
ings. Miss Rockett studied at the National
Gallery under Max Meldrum, and is drawing
mistress at the Clyde Girls’ Grammar School.
Mrs. Gilfillan, known in art circles as
May Vale, with her exhibition of small pic-
tures at the Lyceum Club last week, gave
first aid to many a Cliristmas-gift seeker.
There was a rush to secure flower, landscape
and bird studies framed to stand on table
or bureau, and several of the larger pictures
also soon bore red seals. A side-line of this
artist is hand-wrought jewellery in enamels
and oxidised silver. A necklet with a pen-
dant in dark opal tints bore the title “The
Tride of Persia,” and was classed by the
worker as her best effort. Almost as attrac-
tive was a necklace and earrings in ruby
coloring. Mrs. Gilfillan is a sister of Dr.
Grace Vale, formerly of the Education
Department of N.S.W., but now retired and
living at Frankston.
Sheila Macneil staged a gymkhana at her
parents’ home, Mount Albert, the
other day to collect coin for the Free Ivin-
dergarten holiday home at Blackburn. Mem-
bers of the committee of the F.K.U. gave
their aid.
An auction sale that drew dealers and
connoisseurs from all over the Common-
wealth last week was that of the furniture
and art treasures of the late Ilemy I.
Young, who founded Young and Jacksons
hostelry, opposite Flinders-street railway
station. Mrs. Bickford, his daughter, who
inherited his possessions, died at sea a few
months ago when returning from a world
tour Her late residence, Normanliurst, on
Brighton-road, is a most remarkable man-
sion all white, almost hidden by magnificent
hedges and surrounded by grounds laid out
in a most unusual style. Mr. Young evi-
dently had no fancy for particular periods
or schools of art, with the result that the
interior had the miscellaneous appearance of
an art museum. The china, marble and
bric-a-brac must have caused a good deal of
anxiety to mistress and maids. At the pre-
viewing in the auction rooms and on sale
days the merely curious were kept out by
an admission charge of 2s. which covered
the catalogue, the proceeds going to the
Women’s Hospital. The furniture included
Louis Quinze and Louis Quatorze cabinets
and writing-tables, and many bits of Italian
Renaissance. Gorgeous royal Sevres, royal
Doulton and Worcester vases, graceful ot
line and rich in coloring, were most coveted,
and these were excitedly bidden for.
The lady in the Girl Guide uniform
glimpsed by a Lafayette camera is Mrs.
J. W. Springtliorpe, wife of a medico
well known
for his philan-
thropy. Mrs.
S p ringthorpe,
who is a gen-
erous and ac-
tive worker in
hospital and
charitable in-
terests, is' a
District Com-
missioner o f
the Guides,
and lately
handed over
her home at
M u rrumbeena
for a rally.
The G.G.A.
lately held its
annual meet-
ing, presided
over by Gen-
eral ChauveFs
lady. An in-
crease of membership was recorded, and a
bank balance of over £250. Information about
the spread of Guiding overseas was imparted
by Hope Prichard, who is touring Australia,
and was assistant secretary to the Overseas
Department of the movement at London
headquarters. „ , _
The comedy “Skin Deep, by Ernest
Enderline, was produced by Mrs. George Bell
at Christ Church Hall, South Yarra,on
Saturday night, in aid of the Million Shilling
Fund for a permanent orchestra. Deborah
Mackay Sim. Katharine Balmer, Margaret
llallenstein, Esmonde Jones, Graeme Castles
and some others made the fun sail along
capitally.. Some nice frocks and gorgeous
kimonos were worn by the ladies of the
cast. Terence Crisp was stage manager, and
Helen MacMillan played pianoforte solos
during intervals. . . . r _ A
Dr. A. Degenhardt’s wife raised about ±oU
for the upkeep of the Fitzroy Creche and
Free Kindergarten by a Card and Social
afternoon at her home, North Fitzroy, last
Rothes, daughter of Mrs. Leslie Smith, of
St. Kilda, gave superstition a jolt by choosing
for her wedding gown chiffon of the hue of
the tender shoots of early spring, cut with
a cape and a dipping of the skirt about the
ankles. A large hat of fine straw, wreathed
with soft shaded plumage, and a slieaf of
'■•olden Emblem roses and mauve orchids
figured in the picture. Flower-patterned
g T een chiffon formed the frocks of the three
bridesmaids, who wore buttercup straw hats,
and carried posies of cream and pink water
lilies. The happy man was Arthur, only
son of the late Arthur Harvard and of Mrs.
Tom McMicking, of Yacka, Tocumwal.
When the Maternity Patients’ Convales-
cent Home was closed recently, after
20 years of usefulness, a souvenir of
her services as bon. sec. was given
to Mrs. Julie Rapke, who is also sec-
retary of the Women Citizens’ Movement,
at a billy-boiling at the home of Mrs. I.
W Haddon. The committee of the institu-
tion gathered, and the Rev. Charles Strong
handed a gold boudoir clock to Mrs. Rapke.
Mrs. Tom Smitli gave the use of her dining-
room at Grong Grong for a recital under the
auspices of the B.M.S. last week. Gertrude
I-le'aly. with her fiddle, and Biddy Allen, at
the piano, did some fine playing in a won-
derful Delins sonata, and Albert Finlay hail
the chief instrument in the horn trio of
Brahms Colin Macßae sang sea songs by
Roger Quilter and an old English group.
Eileen O’Keefe’s verse-speaking choir gave
a recital at Kelvin Hall last week. Begin-
ning with Flecker’s version of “God Save the
Kin»-,” spoken with much fervor, the girls
recited Psalms, old ballads and modern
poems, including a verse cycle. “The Return
of the Fairy.” by Humbert Wolfe. Kiddies
were catered for in a number of nursery
rhymes, cleverly acted. Tne ,J£ ifl ,f by
Susan Glaspell’s one-act play ilin f s y
the Literature Circle, lately an
junction with Miss O’Keefe’s school, was an
interesting extra, supplemented by
Pegs,” a satire by Clifford Bax. _
The new tariff on silk stockings shou
strengthen the determination of the fl ar g
few who would like to omit liose f r ,
ing apparel. Only one Melbourne
tended a big Cup-week ball stockmgbesi
she wasn’t encouraged to repeat the P
ment. There’s a musical-comedy acti .
regularly goes to a public dance resort wit
her shapely legs covered in nothing moie
expensive than powder, and aco i „
girls from the Malolo came to th e
ball bare-limbed. The American damsel,
applied a make-up of sunkiss
cleverly that the difference twixt skm
silk didn’t advertise itself.
Though Mrs. Jim Angus has been on the
sick list for several months, she has not
lessened her interest in her pet cha . >
Royal Victorian Institute for the Blind, a _d
has marshalled her committee for a
the grounds on December o, 6 and •
Commercial Travellers’ Comedy p’ i
OX A Thespians, the I irm and the Kapitol
Theat'e will help,.and the tramway men »,
the Malvern depot have announced their
intention of running a stall for the di p
of lucky envelopes.
The silkworm is rapidly ousting the
scientist, says Mrs. Foletta, who with he
husband, George Foletta, of Prestige, lAd
has just returned from a tour of
America and Europe. In U.S.A., ~V
the majority of women are weann pure> s
hose, and the day of artificial sxik is dying.
Passed over last week, Evelyn Geraldine
Stone, youngest daughter of the late a .
and Mrs. John Stone, of South Yarra Miss
Stone, who died at Mena Hospital, East
Melbourne, had been a n _ invalid for ma
vears She was a sister of Lady Doughty, ot
London who, as Eugenia Stone, furnished
this Page to THE Bulletin before she mar-
ried the late Sir George Doughty. Mrs.
Ernest Whitehead, another sister, came from
England about three years ago to look atLr
1,1 Thf Harry Sargoods of TooraK have as
t-hpir °uests Mr. and Mrs. G. Naude, ot
S Africa Mrs. Naude is well known m
this cVty as Iris Muspratt, her marriage
which took place abroad, being a somewhat
recent happening. .
Parisians are beginning to wail over the
grandmotherly trend of fashion Now t
skirts hang in true crinoline style, the lilted
face looks its age, and even
a more matured air. These long, dansl ™ ?
draperies take a lot of getting used to, and
they are apt to get underfoot, with disastrous
results During our late social welter a
smart young matron had her gown torn from
the waist by a husband descending c a os f her
way behind her at a dub ball. It. cost he
the evening’s entertainment as well, being
beyond temporary repairs.
All London seems to have found the six-
oight dance rhythm worthy ot a welcome,
and it is only a matter of a few weeks and we
shall be following its steps. It w;as launched
with the blessing of the Dancing-teachers
Union With it has come a new set of
tunes scored to suit its bn " ht cuabty. It is
a quick measure executed on the ball ot the
foot, and is free from the posturing that ha.,
disfigured many other dances.
Adelaide is going to have Colonel YV. K.
Cass as its Commandant. He becomes a
Beadier for the job. He is known by all
as a good fellow, and has 25 years of military
service behind him, including fighting in
1-Atrice and on Gallipoli. His present post
at the Base has made him popular with the
naval 6 section, for he boards all. warships
touching at this port. His wife is a Can
adian but she has taken kindly to the trans-
planting and should prove a social success
in her new home. Meantime a series of tea-
pouring events are under contemplation by
frl Guelda Pyke, an ex-student of the Mel-
bourne Church of England Girls Grammar
School, who started out on a career of com-
mercial art, finding that the poster field is
limited lias embarked upon the making at
decorative trifles, mostly m wood. At tne
Old Grammarians’ Club she is holding . a . n
exhibition of articles suitable for Christ-
mas presents. Poker and Barbola work, the
latter featuring designs in relief, are largely
Represented. .
The Christmas Bulletin is a striking
example of what mass production can do.
Apart from the 50 black and white drawings,
the handsome colored reproduction of one ot
Minus’s abos., and contributions by dO ot Aus-
tralia’s best-known verse-writers, there are
94 complete short stories, sufficient 111 them-
selves to make a volume of the size usually
sold for 6s. or 7s. Yet because of the great
popularity of the Christmas Bulletin,
which goes all over the English-speaking
world it is possible to put it into readers
hands’ for sixpence. The remarkable produc-
tion will be available at all news-agents and
bookstalls throughout Australia and Maon-
land on Saturday, December 7.


Y\
Z
H
O
>c°
y
y
Q
Q
A.nnou n c i n g
features -—new comfort —'new
in La Salle— Cadillac motor cars
new
style
No fine motor car of 1930 will
list a more impressive array of
mechanical improvementsand
style betterments than LaSalle-
Cadillac announces. And yet
every existing owner of an
older La Salle or Cadillac will
feel increased pride in his
present car as he views these
new models. They are dis-
tinguished for the refinement
of many exclusive La Salle-
Cadillac achievements rather
than for radical departure from
the standards which already
have made La Salle and
Cadillac the choice of seasoned
motor car owners the world
over.
La Salle and Cadillac for
1930 represent improvements
on the traditional excellence
which have caused La Salles
and Cadillacs to be preferred
by Kings and Queens.by nobles
and distinguished personages
the world over.
The La Salles for 1930
radiate a new magnificence
and an assurance of owner
prestige which until recently
only Cadillac could give
Cadillac, in its turn, achieves
its ideal in a new and massive
dignity —in a super exclusive-
ness hitherto unattained.
Motor houses representing
La Salle and Cadillac are now
exhibiting the 1930 line-your
inspection is cordially invited.
WARRANTED FOR TWO YEARS
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER
GENERAL MOTORS (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
Brisbane Sydney Melbourne Adelaide Perth
LA SALLE - CADILLAC
They are General Motors Cars
tfSßEffiaaiaGlK
w w
■
bW
s^l


A
LEIPZIG SPRING FAIR (GERMANY).
Incorporating Great Engineering and Building Fairs.
BEGINS MARCH 2nd, 1930.
BUYERS GOING ABROAD must visit the Leipzig Trade Fair, the
world’s largest Manufacturing, Industrial and Engineering Exposition.
Introductions arranged. Full information free on request to —
A
Authorised Representatives: O.K.
Get Mother the
“Hi-Lo” Brush Control
BISSELL
Sweeper
ret
The “Hi-Lo” Brush Control doubles
the up-and-down range of the brush
and reduces the effort by half, so it
sweeps every surface — easier!
Mother should have the new, better
Bissell which sweeps everything from
the heaviest carpet to bare floors and
does it much easier than ever. The
new “Hi-Lo" Brush Control turns less
effort into greater sweeping power.
Give her that extra comfort daily for
years to come—a new Bissell. Keep
the old one upstairs as an extra con-
venience. Leading merchants will be
glad to show you the new Bissell
which costs no more than before.
Booklet upon invitation.
BISSELL CARPET SWEEPER CO.
A
Grand Rapids, Michigan, U. S. A.
Export Dept., 46 West Broadway
New York, N. Y.
Oldest and Largest Sweeper Makers
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Ta'
HER MAJESTY’S: SHOW BOAT.
CRITERION: LOMBARDI, LTD.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT:
PALACE: KOLA NIDRI.
RICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
**• MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
HOLD EVERYTHING.
iNG ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT:
CLOWNS IN CLOVER.
COMEDY THEATRE,
LEON GORDON in
BREWSTER’S MILLIONS.
HOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
FIRST BRITISH TALKIE,
KITTY.
With ESTELLE BRODY and JOHN STUART.
See and Hear also
WORDS AND MUSIC.
Talking, Dancing and Singing.
With LOIS MORAN and TOM PATRICOLA.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Monday
Is the most popular 64-page woman s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to kn6w. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern is
free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.,
214 George Street, Sydney.
V \ \• ' I / /
“ The\ y Suprerhe / y Car
The more cars you have driven the more you will
appreciate a Sunbeam. Every feature functions with
that perfect harmony which is the result of the utmost
care at every stage of construction.
Sunbeam cars for the Australian market are specially
built with the necessary ground clearance, springing
and cooling to ensure perfect performance on the
roughest roads and tracks and in most tropical heat.
Complete catalogue will be sent on application to any of our
Authorised Dealers or to the Company s address as below.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.,
Export Dept.: 12 Princess Street, Hanover Square, London,
W. 1, England.
Cables: “SUBEAMOCO,” London.
Head Office and Works: Wolverhampton, England.
AUTHORISED DEALERS:
SYDNEY:
William, Hill & Cameron, I
91-97 Flinders Street.
PERTH:
Arthur Bales, Ltd.,
367-371 Murray Street.
MELBOURNE:
The All British Motor Co. (Pty.)
Ltd.,
104-106 Russell Street.
ADELAIDE:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.
69 Waymouth Street.
Sunbeam
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queens! ands
Distingushed Sociel Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The Alsatian Shepherd Dog Defence
League had a hall in the interests of its
protege (which has many enemies) in the
Trocadero. There wore a number of dogs
present. Peter of Thistlewood and Caro of
Braeside guarded the door, seated each on
a brightly-decked table. Palm fronds and
festooned lights decorated, and many of
the gaily awninged alcoves had Alsatians
“at home” in them. Meadowsweet and gail-
lardias tittivated the official alcoves. Mrs.
A. H. Whittingham, in ivory mariette and
crystal headings, received the guests. There
was a very large roll-up.
The Governor and Lady Goodwin went
to the annual summing-up of the Mater Hos-
pital, she in black and white crepe de Chine
with a natural-toned Bankok hat trimmed
with black wings. Mayoress Jolly wore
banana-toned voile, and Mrs. Peterson was
in greenish crepe de Chine with a wide-
brimmed hat to match. Mother Ursula,
Mother Alban and Sister-Superior Mary Cal-
listra received the guests. Afternoon tea
was served at tables decked with daisies and
gerberas.
Patricia Cullen had a kiddies’ dance at
the Royal to forward Nellie Bramley’s can-
didature in the Prince of Sport competition,
and Nell Douglas Graham produced several
one-act plays for the same cause last week.
St. John’s Cathedral was decked out in
gladioli and meadowsweet, arum-lilies and
shasta-daisies, when George, son of the
G. F. Larritts, Melbourne, married Jem, elder
daughter of the late T. H. Brown and of
Mrs. Brown, Dursley, Hamilton. The bride
is a grand-daugliter of the late Chief Justice
Samuel Griffith. Dean de Witt Batty tied
the knot. The bridal array was kitte'ns-ear
satin, the full circular skirt being caught
with a spray of orange blossom. Mrs. Harry
Mort lent the train of hand-made lace,
mounted on silk tulle. The double veil, of
ivory cut tulle was worn with bands of tiny
orange buds. A shower bouquet of orchids
and stephanotis was carried. Judith Brown
and Jocelyn Gayden ’maided in daffodil
butterfly georgette, with long sheath bodices
and full skirts and hats of daffodil Baku :
roses and gladioli in bronze and gold were
carried. Merthyr, New Farm, Samuel Grif
fith’s old home, was lent by the Misses Grif-
fith for the reception.
A presentation was made at the Girls'
Grammar School to Dora Lockington, Gladys
Spurgin and Marjorie Fielding, who are all
leaving the teaching staff to get married;
to Mrs. Green, nine years a member of
the staff, who resigns for health reasons;
and to Kathleen Campbell-Brown, who goes
abroad to continue her studies on an Orient
scholarship. Miss M. B. Kennedy received
the guests, and there was music. Flags and
palms decorated.
On the same evening Tattersall’s Club let
Eve into its Eden for the first time, when
a flag bridge evening was held, the spare
ribs very much enjoying themselves.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The chubby smiles of thousands of bonnie
babies are due to the ministrations of the
Infant Health and Child Welfare Ass’n. In
every district where there is a centre a
highly-qualified nurse is employed to give her
services free
to all mothers
an d babe s.
Mr s . P. G.
H a m p shire,
pictured along-
side, is one of
the most ar-
dent commit-
t e e workers
of the Cottes-
loe centre.
She is also
a member of
the executive
of the Cottes-
loe Women’s
Service
Guild. She
takes a keen
interest in all
sport, and is
kept busy pol-
ishing the tro-
phies won by
three school-boy sons. Next month her hus-
band hands back to the Government his
job of dairy expert to become manager of
South-West Co-operative Dairy Products,
Ltd., which handles three-quarters of the
State’s dairying output.
The Malolo is worthy of a visit. There
is an extra deck only a few feet below the
level of the bridge, and comfy-looking bolsters
accompany deck-chairs. Every bed has a
telephone alongside, and you don’t have to
visit the down-below regions to buy a pearl
necklace or a hair-clasp; there’s a
centre in the foyei*. You can order a rum
massage or any kind of electric bath, but
most luxurious of all is the marble swim-
ming-pool. There are marble columns,
marble seats for bathers and a Juliet, bal-
cony up above for onlookers. Tiled cubicles,
each containing a shower, surround the
gleaming emerald depths big enough for a
smallish whale and fit for a Roman emperor
or a movie star. Among the gadgets _in
the adjoining gymnasium are a galloping
horse and a rowboat.
Mrs. H. A. Cresswell filled her hall with
golden broom, her drawing-room with red
poppies and her dining-room with pink and
scarlet flocks for a bridge afternoon _ for
Arbitration Judge Quick’s lady. The princi-
pal guest’s figured crepe de Chine was
topped with black millinery, and Mrs. Cress-
well’s navy-blue triple uinon had floral em-
bellisliings on the bodice. The players included
Mrs Rowley, Mrs. Drummond, Mrs. Cuth
bertson, Phoebe Holmes and Ella Cresswell.
Springtime in the suburb of Crawley
tempted Mrs. George Haywood to entertain
her friends out of doors. The gardens or
Wingfield-avenue are looking their best, and
Mrs. Haywood’s was a blaze of carnations,
roses and statice with tubs and hangipg bas-
kets of orange and flame cactus against a
background of gums and native shrubs. Tea-
tables were spread on the lawns, where Mrs.
Cecil Mason distinguished herself by win-
ning the competition.
The “Bardy” Bevans —he is a son of
Judge Bevan, of Sydney, and an old boy of
North Shore Grammar School; —will require
at least one packing-case for their golf trophies
when they leave for N. S. W ales. Cottesloe
people say farewell with regret, but Cottes-
loe fish will flick their tails with glee, for
“Bardy” is a mighty fisherman. At a fare-
well bridge party Mrs. Bevan wore pink
chiffon, adorned with rows of pintucks.
Captain Chilvers brought his wife in a black
ring-velvet bridge coat over her del-blue
frock; silver glinted upon Dr. Clark’s pink
georgette worn under a black coat; Nan
Smith chose flowered ring-velvet, and Mrs.
Hampshire’s beige lace included narrow pleat-
ings of georgette.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Only three of the Speck’s thirteen V.C. s
were available for the dinner given them by
the O’Grady at Hadley’s Hotel. They were
Lieut.-C.ol. J. H. Bisdee, who won his honor
in the S’African War, and Lieut. J. J.
Dwyer and Sergeant P. C. Statton, heroes of
the Great War. Chief Justice Nicholls,
Premier McPhee, Bishop Hay and Mayor
Soundy were guests.
The J. J. Gatenbys were extensively fare-
welled in the Midlands before flitting to
Maoriland. Mrs. Jim Melrose _ and Mrs.
Crosby Lyne gave a dinner in their honor at
Powell’s Hotel, Campbell Town, and Mrs.
Melrose hostessed a party of young people at
Barton, Campbell Town, by way of a send-
off to Barbara Gatenby.
Artist Frances Rowntree, pictured here,
began to draw at the age of five —her first
effort was a
cat’s he a d
scratched with
a nail on a
salmon - tin.
Later in life
she studied
under L. De-
chaineaux at
the Tech. .Coll,
where she ex-
celled in pas-
tel drawing.
Joining Jean
Spong’s out-
door sketching
class she
learned water-
color tech-
nique and rc-
sum e d her
studies under
Mr. Decliai-
neux, becom-
ing a member
of the Art Society of Tasmania. A recent
trip to Tahiti gave her a wealth of new
material, and she exhibited some charming
pictures from this and other sources at
W. E. Fuller’s lately.
The Women Graduates’ Association is lay-
ing the social rails for the inter-State con-
ference of Uni. women which is to be held
here in January, and a successful bridge party
to raise funds was held at the Boomerang
rooms.
In aid of the building fund for the new
“Tassie,” two young things, Ninie Gibson
and Moira Loncy, ran a bridge party at the
Imperial, and raked in many shekels. The
supper-room was decked in pink, mauve and
lemon columbines.
Mrs. J. R. Chapman is paying a visit to
her daughter, Mrs. Cuthbert, Sandy Bay,
and foregathering with many old friends.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The racing at Cheltenham took place in
unpleasant weather, very hot and sultry,
with heavy rain just as the steeplechase was
run. Coats and skirts were the general
wear. Dr. A. V. Benson (chairman) and
Mrs. Benson entertained.
The Malolo tourists have looked at Adel-
aide and have given it superlative praise
—they say it is very like their own Los
Angeles. Mayoress Bonython entertained the
ladies of the party at luncheon. The young
daughter of a New York magnate was very
keen to make the acquaintance of a kangaroo.
She was disappointed not to see them hop-
ping about the streets.
Kenneth Duffield’s 300 performers are
rehearsing every night for the League of
Nations Pageant. The book is the joint
work of Miss Collison, who wrote the
allegorical portion, and Mr. Duffield, who
introduced the light comedy.
The Geoffrey Wardles with their young
family are staying at the Oriental until
their' departure for England. Mrs. Wardle
entertained a number of friends at bridge,
when she wore a smart beige ensemble with
a hat cn suite. Beautiful flowers were in
the drawing-room, and afternoon-tea was
served at a buffet on the balcony. Mr. and
Mrs. Wardle also gave a large dinner party
as a farewell, and their small sons had a
luncheon for their juvenile friends.
AT THE BACK OF THE NORTH WIND.
Darwin.
Mrs. Mansfield, locally known as “Gran"
and our oldest inhabitant, celebrated her
87th birthday recently. The old lady has
many tales to tell of Gulgong in the roaring
days, of the Eureka riots, and the early
days of Ballarat. She was the recipient of
many letters, telegrams and gifts.
The engagement of Violet Estelle, eldest
daughter of the A. D. Allwriglits, and G. F.
Lord, who hails from Kidderminster, has
been announced.
Newcastle- Waters had its first wedding
last month, when Caroline, daughter ctf the
late H. Bathern, of Beetaloo, married Nor-
man Stacey, of Yerrumberini.


Modern Service
describes in just two words the
real efficiency with which
“Scott’s” is conducted —efficiency
that places it foremost amongst
Australia’s residential hotels.
Electric fires, hot and cold water, inter-
communicating and direct line ’phones in
bedrooms; many bedrooms with separate
baths.
Inclusive Tariff by Day or Bed and
Breakfast Rate.
Scott’s Hotel
Collins Street, Melbourne
Telegrams and Gables: “Scottsotel,”
Melbourne.
Telephone: Cent. 9010 (Ten Lines).
#• . ■ - .* •/ » ‘i
If.WM,
ret
is Money /
me
ym
'■i
cn
pc:
i m
a
Those in business who 1~
learned the value of time— of
being on time at all times—that
time means money are on the high road to success. ,
An Omega Watch makes an excellent present to a
business girl. You will find she will ALWAYS be ora
time if she owns one.
)mega
’EXACT TiME F
K LIF E
in her best welcoming manner, and Helen
Delaney warmed and joined in a four-sided
argument over the merits and demerits of
eats as domestic pets.
“You would be amused to hear Sandy
amie on the relationship existing between
cats and women,” Walters declared after
most of the points had been discussed.
•‘And who is Sandy?” Helen Delaney
asked.
•‘You spoke to him on the store steps on
Friday evening,” Walters replied evenly.
“What —the little man with the idiotic
hat and that impossible coat?”
“Yes.”
“What a wreck!” .
“He gives most people that impression,
the station-owner mused.
“But do you mean to tell me," Helen
Delaney asked in an astonished voice, “that
he is capable of giving opinions—on women
and cats?” . .
“Yes,” Jim Walters said, “Sandy is cap-
able of giving a first-class opinion on almost
anything. He’s hung to me for years,
on and off, and the more I see of him the
more I wonder why he wasn’t born to be
an educated man, in the higher sense. He
is educated in his judgment of human
nature and relative subjects—in fact, he is
most uncanny. We were together at Galli-
poli.”
A minute later he left the room, followed
by Jack Hinton. They stood talking in
the parched garden for a few minutes, and
then parted. As Jim Walters walked slowly
across to the harness sheds he noticed Miss
Delaney making her way through a swirl
of dust to the store. He wanted to follow
her and to talk to her on anything at all,
but felt it would be trespass.
Sandy Jackson watched Helen Delaney’s
progress to the store, and he did not watch
alone. Had she known how well she was
being watched she would no doubt have
turned and raced straight back towards the
house; but as it was she reached the store,
unlocked the front door and entered.
She wondered, as she busied herself
straightening papers on her writing-table,
why a man with all the stamp of good
breeding evident in Walters should roam
the country as carelessly as he was reputed
to roam it, and drink rum for pleasure.
She remembered Jim Walters’s remark,
Spoken as she left: “There are lots of
things I’d like to do to-day which cannot
exactly be classified as work.” “In that,
at . least, he is right,” she murmured. “I
nave thousands of trivial things to do my-
self which cannot be classified as work.
Fve a good mind to leave them till to-
morrow.”
Footsteps sounded on the front steps and
she frowned. It was Sunday, and no one
had a right to enter the store at all on
Sundays.
Helen Delaney felt half inclined to ignore
the tapping on the counter; but impulse
brought her to her feet, and she walked
meditatively out of the office.
“Can I get some tobacco, Miss?” Sandy
Jackson asked earnest]}'.
“Can’t you wait until- to-morrow?”
“I’d like to have a smoke now, Miss;
an’ I’m fair sick of cadgin’. I got a job
now, Miss, an’ I can buy me tobacco. I’d
have got it yesterday only I didn’t think
I’d earned enough on the books—like.”
Sandy’s- eyes wandered to a four-ounce
tin on a shelf. She tossed it to him.
“Jackson!”
“Yes, Miss.”
A telephone bell rang faintly inside the
office and Miss Delaney hurried to answer
it. Sandy strained his ears and heard
greetings to a distant girl-friend. He crept
quickly a few feet nearer to the door; but
it was closed.
He looked at Miss Delaney’s hat on the
bottom shelf opposite him. He recollected
that on Friday evening he had seen her
take the frog handbag from beneath the
same hat. Curiosity set him thinking
rapidly. He would like to see what the
froggy handbag contained; in fact, he had
to find out in some manner before many
more hours passed.
Within a few seconds Miss Delaney’s
footsteps sounded coming back.
“I’m afraid you’ll have to go away now,”
she said as though addressing a persistent
child. “You have your tobacco and I wish
to write.”
“Thankin’ you, Miss,” Sandy grinned and
commenced to walk from the store.
“I say,” he turned suddenly, “don’t you
go takin’ any notice of James if he gets
fresh. He’s a fair terror for pullin’ people’s
legs about all sorts of things once you get
him wound up.”
An indistinct exclamation iollowed him
from the store.
The competition was responsible for a
few unusual happenings on Boolgooroo.
Just before midday Miss Delaney dis-
covered Bob Devoe, a bearded stockman,
beneath the store building. He feigned
sleepiness and declared that he had been
drunk the night before, and must have
crawled beneath the store by mistake.
“A funny place to crawl,” Miss Delaney
told him curtly. She would have said very
much more had she seen the little slip of
paper which he had hurriedly slipped into
his trouser pocket.
As she returned to the house she dis-
covered two men loitering near the small
garage halfway between the store and the
house. They certainly had a right to be
there, but they stared at her in a quite
unusual manner and they were standing
right out in the broiling sunlight when they
could just as well have been resting in some
shady spot. She looked straight ahead and
walked faster. It had the desired effect;
for her skirt skipped a little at every step.
“Well, that ought to satisfy him, Joe.”
one declared. “She’s got green ones with
frills on ’em and about half a’ inch wide.
Damned if I knew she wore ’em before!”
Later in the day Harry, the bandy-legged
man who cut the wood for the house, paid
her very close attention as she watered her
parched little flower-garden.
Early on Monday morning she closed
the store in disgust and returned in a flurry
to Mrs. Hinton.
“Auntie,” she commenced without pre-
amble, “is there anything wrong with this
dress?” She twisted around, trying to see
for herself. „
“It seems very nice and neat to me,
Mrs. Hinton answered. “Turn again, my
dear.”
Helen Delaney turned slowly, and looked
appealingly at her aupt.
“No, you silly child, you’ve a false alarm
in that head of yours. Why did you ask?”
“I seem to be attracting a great deal of
curiosity,” Helen Delaney answered in an
exasperated tone. “I’ve had some of the
men in the store after things, and they
simply stared and stared at the skirt. I
just asked one of them would he kindly
explain what was wrong, and all he said was
‘Nothing, Miss!’ and disappeared like a
scalded cat.”
“1 can’t see anything the matter,’ Mrs.
Hinton declared, a little puzzled. “The
dress hangs well. It does not cling—too
much. Really, my dear, I’m afraid you’re
dreaming.”
“I think I will change it, all the same,
Helen Delaney replied doubtfully.
She went from the room and a little
later returned in a cool plain brown frock
which she wore on dusty days.
“If they still stare,” she declared m the
doorway, “I shall at least know it is not
the dress that’s at fault.” She turned and
walked out into the heat.
But the brown dress attracted every bit
as much attention, if not more. The men
seemed to be making; a special pilgrimage
to the store, and Miss Delaney discovered
towards the end of the day that by a
remarkable" coincidence she had taken more
from the top shelf of the shop in the one
day than ever she had been asked for in a
whole week. She turned the matter over,
grew suddenly dignified, then very red and
angry. She shut the store an hour earliei
than usual.
“I’ve a good mind not to allow any man
in the store at all in future!” she flashed
in front of Mrs. Hinton.
“Why?” that lady inquired gently.
“They are up to some idiotic joke. They
deserve to be treated as pigs. By ' the
way, have you seen my bag anywhere?”
“I’m afraid I haven’t. I think I saw
you take it off to the store this morning
with you.”
“I must have left it there,” Helen agreed.
“I’ll go and get it.”
* * * '■*
“Well, accordin’ to these results an’
descriptions,” Sandy Jackson continued at
the tea table, “Bob Devoe, Joe Blain an’
Cecil Smetl’s all seen Miss Delaney’s jazz
garters to advantage. That shows they ve
got enough observin’ powers to live in the
cities. That makes three of ’em equal on
the first count. Now we’ll judge the second
act. Who observed what was in her hand-
bag?” , , ~
There came no answer for almost a full
minute. Nobody had a description to give.
“I don’t believe she’s got one,” Bob
Devoe declared.
“Seein’s believin’,” Sandy Jackson re-
torted. “She had one until late this after-
noon. Here it is!” He drew the plush
frog handbag from well within his large
coat and placed jt on the table.
Light footsteps sounded behind.
“Now, I’ll just show you the things what
a girl like Miss Delaney takes round with
her,” Sandy declared and opened the bag.
A long arm gripped him by the scruff of
the neck; he was whirled around face to
face with Jim Walters.
CHAPTER XI.
Helen Delaney Lets Her Skirt Down.
The rays from the swinging lamps cast
queer shadows on the walls of the kitchen
and dining-room. The men remained silent
and still.
Sandy Jackson appeared to crumple a
little. The frog handbag slipped from his
grasp on to the bare wooden table. He
tried to meet Jim Walters’s eyes, tried to
grin, tried to cough, but failed in all.
“What?” he tried to speak, but failed
again. “I didn’t”
“This handbag”—Jim Walters’s voice
was tense with anger-*—“did I hear you say
it belonged to Miss Delaney?”
“I was just sayin’
“Does it belong to Miss Delaney?” Wal-
ters’s grip tightened until Sandy winced.
“Yes.”
“Where did you get it?”
“I found it,” Sandy declared, a little
more relieved.
“You found it? Why didn’t you return
it? ” . , . T
“I was just goin to. only I was
provin’ ” Sandy straightened stiffly,
and his voice died away.
“Proving what?” Walters’s voice rapped
louder.
“Nothin.’ ”
Jim Walters released his victim. He
looked at the neat little bag. It looked so
much like a glistening large green frog; and
a small tube had fallen from its mouth.
He replaced it, picked up the bag and held
it towards Sandy Jackson.
“You’ll come with me,” he said firmly,
“and you’ll return this thing and explain
to Miss Delaney just where and how you
found it.”
An expression of horror crossed Sandy s
face. He looked quickly at the handbag,
mumbled something, and then pulled away.
He crashed heavily over a long form, shot
through a back door and sped away out
into the darkness. Jim Walters strode to
the door. His face wrinkled in concen-
tration. Somewhere out of the growing
blackness faint thuds told of a fleeing man.
“Now, just what is the joke?” Jim Wal-
ters snapped as he turned back into the
room.
The majority of the men glanced at
one another. An ugly expression was upon
Walters’s face. In that mood, especially,
he would not stand trifling with.
“We were having a competition,” Bob
Devoe explained, “but—but”
“Yes?”
“Well, we didn’t expect it to run out like
this.”
“Explain the whole thing, will you?”
In a few words Bob Devoe explained as
much as he knew of the competition and
the presence of the handbag.
“Of course, I suppose Sandy found it—
or thought he did,” Devoe concluded.
A ghost of a smile played on Jim
Walters’s lips. He grew serious again.
“Sandy’s ways of finding things are some-
times 'irregular,” he said. “The best thing
you chaps can do is to think twice, very
seriously, before you submit yourself to him
in any way at all. He’ll lead you into
trouble.”
“We took the whole thing as a bit of a
joke,” Joe Blain attempted to make excuse.
“I know that,” Jim W alters’s tone was
friendly again. “But jokes have to be
watched. They so often get beyond con-
trol.”
He picked up the handbag and dis-
appeared in the darkness towards the
station-owner’s residence.
Mrs. Hinton was reading; Mr. Hinton
was labelling and indexing a new consign-
ment of records.
On a carpet at the northern end of the
room a bulldog watched both Mrs. Hinton
and her husband with suspicious eyes. His
exit to his kennel was three minutes over-
due, and he knew it.
Heavy footsteps sounded along the back
verandah, grew nearer. Mr. Hinton ceased
from his task, and Mrs. Hinton glanced
suddenly at the clock.
“It’s almost five past eight!” she ex-
claimed and rose. “Here, Bonzo, you should
be in your kennel.”
Someone knocked at the outer back
door.
“.Come in!” Mr. Hinton called.
Jim Walters entered the room. He
glanced eagerly about, and then seemed to
notice Mr. and Mrs. Hinton.
“Miss Delaney,” he questioned—“she’s
not here?”
Surprise figured on Mrs. Hinton’s face.
She appeared to consider the question very
unusual.
“Er—no,” Hinton replied. “She’s up at
the store—looking up something or other.”
“Thanks very much,” Jim Walters mur-
mured and disappeared.
Bonzo sank down very quietly on the
carpet again and watched the clock.
“Rather sudden,” Hinton commented.
“I don’t quite like it, Jack.” Mrs. Hinton
answered him. “He never even bade us
good evening; but he wants Helen. He’s
hardly ever spoken to her before, you
know.”
Mr. Hinton straightened as though the
fact struck him plainly.
“I think you should follow him, Jack,”
his wife went on. “he may have evil inten-
tions.”
“What!” Mr. Hinton almost shouted in
amazement. “Jim Walters have evil inten-
tions! Haven’t you and I known him long
enough? He’s just got something on his
mind to tell Helen, that’s all. ’
At that Mrs. Hinton had to remain
satisfied, though she did not feel so. She
(Continued on next page.)
THE “CHRISTMAS BULLETIN.”
This year the "Christmas Bulletin” will be published on Saturday, Dec. 7.
It will be an extraordinary sixpenn’orth.
In addition to more than 20 complete stories chosen for their quality,
verses by the 20 best-known writers in Australia, and over 50 illustrations
by all the principal black-and-white artists —including two full-page drawings
by Leason and Jardine and three caricatures by Low—there will be a colored
supplement on art paper by B. E. Minns.
Mr. Minns, the greatest painter of the Australian aborigine, has been
engaged during the year on a set of four water-colors of the subject of
which he is the world’s undisputed master. These have been purchased by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., and the first of them, "A Northern Belle,” will
be reproduced with the Christmas Bulletin.
Notwithstanding the great expense incurred in the production of the
"Christmas Bulletin,” it will be sold at the usual price—sixpence.
Orders are now being taken by newsagents throughout Australia and
Maoriland.


mm
mm
Ovi
&s>}!
u
m>
*awa
;y;>V;
ms
»s>®s
K>OT
»>>>>>'>'>
YsNVv
mm
s:>vy.>Awjj
m
juj
»V.k>
!»x>;>
ri>m
W)’
£#
S
BL|
a handy “Sparklet” Syphon and
VV box of Bulbs you have the equivalent
of twelve large Syphons of Sodawater
always at hand. There is no fear of run-
ning short —no need to buy sodawater,
when you can make it in a few seconds
from your ordinary water supply—a fuil
quart of pure, healthful sodawater, for less
than fourpence.
A “Sparklet” is safe and simple to operate.
It provides you with a miniature soda foun-
tain in your own home; and all kinds of
sparkling fruit drinks can be made in-
stantly and easily. Any leading Store,
Chemist, or Hardware Merchant can sup-
ply “Sparklet” Syphons.
“C” SYPHONS
The Popular Quart Size .. 10/6 each
“C” Bulbs . . 3/9 per box of twelve
"C” „ 1/11 „ „ six
(Country prices slightly higher owing to freight charges .)
re
SYPHONS & BULBS
ICES & ICE CREAM SODAS
A "Sparklet” enables you to
make delicious ice creams in a
household rejrigerator.
Write )or leaflet and recipes.
BMiminimimiiiiimiJ
SKI
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN’*
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
COMMONWEALTH LOAN
5 YEARS
AVERAGE YEARLY RETURN, £5/14/4 p.c.
The interest on Stock and Bonds of this Loan is free of STATE
INCOME TAX. This is important to remember, especially as
the security is absolute, the yield good, and there is always a
ready market for the sale of the securities if this is necessary.
As the Loan has been issued at a discount, the average annual return
over the period of five years is £5/14/4 p.c. This is an excellent investment
for the best of gilt-edged securities.
Bonds can be bought for £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO or £lOOO. Stock may be
purchased for £lOO or multiples of £ 1 0 above £lOO.
£9B will buy a Bond or Stock for £loo—Bonds or Stock of other
amounts can be bought at the same rate.
Only 10 p.c. deposit need be paid at the time of application and the
balance may be paid at any time up to 3rd February, 1930.
THE SAFEST OF ALL SECURITIES.
Full particulars from—
Banks, Savings Banks, Money Order Post Offices, and Members
of Stock Exchanges.
Commonwealth; Treasury, Canberra. EDWARD G. THEODORE, Treasurer.
roused Bonzo and for a considerable time
watched the store from the back verandah.
She heard no piercing screams, and the light
shone quite steadily.
The front door of the store was Locked.
Jim Walters mounted the steps and
knocked. A chair scraped within, footsteps
sounded which sent an odd thrill through
him. The door opened just a little. Helen
Delaney’s face appeared puzzled.
“Is it you, Uncle?” she inquired.
“No, I’m here,” Walters replied. “Your
handbag—l think it is—l’ve brought it back
to you.”
“Oh!” Helen Delaney threw the ■ door
wide open. “You’re Mr. Walters, aren’t
you?” 1
“I just brought this along.” Jim Walters
advanced no further than the top step.
He held out the bag and she took it
eagerly. She bit her lip.
“Mr. Walters, where did you find it?”
she asked.
“I would rather not say.”
Puzzlement crossed her face. Jim Walters
felt disturbed. The position was growing
difficult. To him she looked very pretty,
with the firm expression on her face. He
became conscious of his thoughts.
“I wish you could tell me,” she declared.
“I left it there this afternoon”—she pointed
to the shelf a few feet behind her. “I’m
absolutely sure I did. It’s a habit of mine.
But when I was ready to go over to the
house for tea it was missing.”
“Perhaps you dropped it on the way
across,” he suggested.
“I certainly did not,” Helen Delaney
answered him quickly. “I brought it with
me, placed it on the shelf there beneath
my hat, just as I always do. I remember
quite clearly, because I had occasion to
go to it during the afternoon, and it was
there then. Mr. Walters, you know where
you got it, and I consider that I have a
right to be told.”
Jim Walters fidgeted. This girl disturbed
him. Usually his treatment of women was
rather curt and to the point. Often he hurt
them by his abruptness.
“Miss Delaney,” he entreated her, “I’ve
brought it back to you. I ask you to
inspect it, to see that it is all intact and
I shall hold myself responsible for any-
thing missing.”
“I asked you a question,” she declared,
“and I have a right to a satisfactory reply.
Mr. Walters, where did you get this bag?”
Jim Walters did not reply. He was
looking at her. His eyes were roving over
her face. Yes, he was telling himself, she
had an indescribable appeal about her. She
seemed so vibrant and alert.
Helen Delaney placed the handbag on
the counter. Her face was slightly flushed.
She appeared to be very angry. Jim
Walters suddenly observed the fact.
“Oh yes,” he recovered himself, “the
purse. But I’m afraid”
“Afraid! You’re afraid to tell me some-
thing which I have a right to know? I
call it cowardice! Or stupidity! You’ve
been on this station a couple of days. Since
your arrival there has been some colossal
joke going on. All day to-day I’ve been
the victim of some idiotic prank. The
men are all in it. It is something I’m
wearing. They look and stare, and carry
on like great buffoons. My handbag is
connected with it—l know. One man had
the cheek to hide beneath the store, others
followed me about; and then my handbag
was stolen—there is no other word for it.
Mr. Walters, I demand ajj explanation.
Otherwise—get out!”
Jim Walters started. He felt desperate.
A sense of decency told him to grant her
demand; but a peculiar sense of loyalty
made him hesitate. He had known Sandy
for years, and had never let that rascal down
yet. He felt his mind slipping from him. The
girl before him looked magnificent in her
defiant attitude; but it hurt him, because
she looked glorious when she smiled. He
hardly heard his own voice as he answered
her. He seemed to be acting under a
foreign mind.
“If I explain, will you promise to let the
matter drop entirely?”
She paused, and he watched her. His
gaze was eager, and entreaty was in his
eyes. He fancied he saw the ghost of a
smile on her lips.
“I’ll tell you everything if you promise
to treat those concerned as though the
affair had never happened,” he said
earnestly.
She watched him very steadily. He felt
her gaze boring through him, and knew,
somehow, that he was being judged fairly.
“Go ahead,” she said. “I promise—but
you had better sit down.”
He drew a deep breath of relief, sat up
on the counter and commenced his account.
As he went on he watched her closely
to see how she was taking it. He could
not read her expression. Her face had set
in a strange calm. Her hair moved a little,
and it tantalised him so that he wanted
to control and to fasten it. He spoke in
a jerky manner, unconsciously protecting
Sandy and excusing him at every oppor-
tunity. Half-way through she turned her
back towards him, and he felt suddenly
downcast.
“So, you can see,” he finished, “you can-
not blame Sandy altogether. He’s a great
chap—irresponsible and all that, I know;
but he means no harm in the little things
he does. To tell you the truth, I think
he has let you down lightly.”
Suddenly the sound of her laughter pealed
through the room. She turned and faced
him.
“And thaf is why you wouldn’t tell me?”
she exclaimed, and then grew serious again.
“But I do feel rather a fool about it,
though. The men will talk oyer it for
months.”
“They will not.” Jim Walters’s voice
was firm.
“You mean”
“You may rest assured that the matter
will be dropped—entirely,” he advised her
convincingly.
She thought for a short while, then looked
at him with a new interest. Her expres-
sion was greatly softened, and a light of
mischief entered her eyes.
“But I am at a loss to know why he
did it,” she declared.
“He was trying to teach them observa-
tion, so I was told,” Jim Walters answered.
“He declared that no man on the station
knew that you wore—l—l mean—that you
had a handbag—and things.”
“He was evidently right,” she replied
evenly. “I’m very glad that you told me.”
“And you won’t allow it to affect you in
any way?”
“Do I look like a rotter, M;r. Walters?”
Two bright spots burned in her cheeks.
“I think you’re the best sport I know,”
he replied.
“A compliment,” she acknowledged art-
fully. “Usually I don’t care for compli-
ments, but I think I like yours. Have you
any more?”
“No—not now, anyhow. But I could
think some more out.”
“Well, don’t, because they won’t be true
if you have to think them out. Now I want
you to work for the next half-hour. I
want some cases shifted in the back of
the store. Come on.”
He followed her eagerly. She moved
easily ahead of him; but his eagerness
almost made him walk on top of her.
Helen returned to the house at a few
minutes to eleven o’clock. To Mrs. Hin-
ton’s battery of questions she replied that
she had been quite safe, and that she had
found a most willing and gentlemanly
assistant.
She passed on into her bedroom, pulled
out dresses, selected one, and returned to
the large living-room. Mr. Hinton was
still indexing records. In Bonzo’s place a
black kitten lay stretched out on the carpet,
and Mrs. Hinton knitted.
Helen flopped into a cane chair. She
threaded a needle, picked up a tiny pair
of scissors and commenced to unpick the
hem of the skirt.
“Goodness, is that your brown dress,
Helen?” Mrs. Hinton asked quickly.
“Yes, I’m going to let it down another
two inches.”
“Two inches!”
“Yes, I’m going to let them all down.”
Jack Hinton turned back to his records.
Helen Delaney went on snipping. As she
thought, a growing sense of humiliation
stole over her. She had been made a fool
of, and probably Jim Walters was some-
where laughing at her. Perhaps he wag as
deep in the joke as anybody else. He had
sworn her to observe a thing which was
hard to stand by. She felt a deep resent-
ment about it.
Yet somehow he kept uppermost in her
thoughts. While piling up cases in the
store he certainly had been very entertain-
ing. She wondered how old he was, and
why he was such a good-for-nothing wan-
derer. He seemed to have no family ties,
and a man without a family tie of some
sort sounded suspiciously like an outcast.
According to Mr. Hinton he was a man
who worked when he wished and idled
when he liked. Such a man could scarcely
be much of an asset to the world, even
though he had earned the rank of captain
at Gallipoli.
“Captain Walters,” she murmured. The
name sounded dignified, and she murmured
it again.
. “Talking to yourself, Helen?” Hinton
asked from the other end of the room.
Helen started suddenly.
“No, I was just counting stitches,” she
replied.
She spread the dress out on her lap. Her
eyes were sleepy. She could run the dress
up early in the morning.
She left the room. In her mind was a
growing resolution to treat all station-hands
with sharp contempt. In future they would
not have the opportunity to run jazz-garter
competitions.
(To l)e continued next week.)
Light and Shadow.
Last eve I watched a mountain height,
Tall timber on its crest,
What time a moon Avas in the east,
A red sun in the west.
As there it stood, aloft and lone,
Plains round it, still and wide,
One slope with golden glory glowed,
While shadowed was one side.
A little space with night’s reign close,
And day’s bright reign nigh done,
Thus lit, thus shadowed, it abode
Betwixt the moon and sun.
None nigh me, ’neath that mountain height
With its tall-timbered crown,
I watched the silver moon rise up,
The radiant sun go down.
Then softly, as a dew-wet wind
Rose, murmured, sank and died,
Dark grew 7 its brightly-glowing slope,
And bright its sliadowmd side.
Thus yestere’en upon the plains,
With none to w T atch with me,
When all around was mute and still,
This w 7 onder did I see.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN,


Educational.
SCOTCH COLLEGE,
TORRENS PARK, MITCHAM, S.A.
a BOARDING and DAY SCHOOL for
A b O v S Headmaster, N. M. G. Gratton,
p . j)ip Ed. (Melbourne). Professional,
Commercial and Agricultural Courses.
Prospectus and further particulars may be
nhmiupd from the Headmaster or the Sec-
retary W. D. C. Paton, F.O.A. (Aust.),
A.M.P. Chambers, Adelaide.
It is impossible to buy a
better plug than the
LODGE
for any engine at any
price.
Lodge C 3 is illus*
trated—the plug for
all engines screwed
metric.
in
p / C sealed
5/0 metal
box.
Lodge Plugs
can be bought
from leading
a c cess ory
dealers, gar-
a g e s, and
stores.
\P
LODGE PLUGS, LTD.,
RUGBY. ENGLAND.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Australia and the British
Commonwealth
By the Hon. J. G. LATHAM,
K.C., M.A., LL.B., Attorney-
General of the Commonwealth of
Australia. [lmmediately.
The Sovereignty of the British
Dominions
By A. BERRIEDALE KEITH,
D.C.L., D.Litt., Regius Professor
of Sanskrit and Comparative
Philology in the University of
Edinburgh. About 18s. net.
[lmmediately.
The Post-war Unemployment
Problem
By Prof. HENRY CLAY, M.A.,
author of “The Problem of
Industrial Relations,” etc., Bs. 6d.
net.
NEW NOVELS.
Hans Frost
By HUGH WALPOLE.
[Dominions Edition.
“Shapely and full of life.” —Spectator.
White© aks
By MAZO de la ROCHE, author
of “Jalna,” the famous novel
which won the “A tlan t i c
Monthly” prize of 10,000 dol-
lars. The new book carries on
the history of the Whiteoak
family. [Empire Library.
Selected Poems: Lyrical and
Narrative
By W. B. YEATS. 7s. 6d. net.
To be Obtained[ from a/I
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD.,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
A NEW LINE ON GOLF ... f
A NEW CONFIDENCE IN EVERY SHOT •
“WILL CORRY”
Matched Woods
Graded Irons
i i w
<S>Zr.
Goodbye for ever ....
to the One-Club Game!
u%
m
Science. . . .simplified science. . . .as applied to Golf
to-day, comes to you in the new inter-related Woods
and Irons. Everywhere .... from one end of the world
to the other. . . .Golfers are realising what this new
method can do to their game. Where particular shots
presented insurmountable difficulties to the average
golfer. . . .they are now played with an ease and
confidence that brings new thrills and delights. . . .
never before realised. The beautiful Corry Clubs
have been justifiably acclaimed as supreme examples
of the modern club-maker s art. Scientifically
matched and graded in weight, length, loft, lie and
balance, they have the same “feel’ . . . .the same
swinging weight. Call and see ill Corry about
these new clubs, or write to him, and he personally
makes a selection for you.
MATCHED WOODS DE LUXE 25/-
GENUINE STAINLESS GRADED IRONS DE LUXE 257-
SPECIAL GRADED IRONS DE LUXE 20/-
FREE LESSONS BY WILL CORRY
... .to every purchaser oj a Set of Clubs.
To put the Golfing tyro on the right track, Will Cony will give, free of any
charge whatever, lessons on every angle of the game.
■tfulHlHl
CRICKET SCORER
cm CtiET
ZH7JH7
\ Jfitft StmmomH ■
BOYS’ CRICKET SETS
Perhaps that lad of yours is a Don Bradman in the making. Give
him a Cricket Set from Mick Simmons and see his eyes gleam.
Complete Sets with Bats, Stumps, Ball, Rules and Score Book,
6/9, 10/-, 11/6, 12/9 and upwards.
{Carriage paid on Golf and Cricket Material.)
MickSimmonsltd.
HEADQUARTERS: 720 HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
“The Leaders in Outdoor Sport and Home Entertainments
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OK
1 TASMANIA.
Matrimonial- Causes Jurisdiction.
BETWEEN CHARE E S GEORG E
GORDON of Glenorchy Tasmania and
MADELINE GRACIA GORDON his
wife and ALBERT E. MASON Co-
respondent.
TO ALBERT E. MASON late of Under-
wood Street Paddington and Moorhead
Street Rcdfern Sydney.
TAKE NOTICE that Charles George Gor-
don has filed his petition in the above-named
Court praying for divorce from his said wife
on the ground of her adultery with you
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at
the proper office of the Supreme Court
Hobart on or before thirty days after the
publication of this notice or the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit will be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding A
copy of the Petition may be had on applica-
tion to the undersigned solicitors for the
Petitioner or their Sydney agents.
DATED this eleventh day of November
one thousand nine hundred and twenty-nine.
( Sgd.) C. S. SIMMONS, .
Clerk of the Court.
Lewis, Hudspeth, Perkins and Dear, 129
Collins Street, Hobart, solicitors for the
Petitioner, whose agents herein in Sydney
are Tietyens, McLachlau and Co., 14 Martin
Place, Sydney.
V
Keep Poison Out Of
CUTS
A cut or sore place neglected may
within a few hours set up serious in-
flammation or blood-poisoning.
Keep Zam-Buk always bandy.
This reliable antiseptic healer prom-
ptly applied to any flesh wound or
sore, prevents dangerous infection
from dirt and bad germs. Zam-Buk
heals without the least smarting or
irritation, thoroughly disinfects the
tissues and quickly grows new skin.
The secret of Zam-Buk’s amazing
power is in its refinement and herbal
origin and its freedom from animal
fats. Zam-Buk is ‘a surgery in a
two-inch box’. It is unequalled for
cuts, burns, scalds, chapped hands,
chilblains, eczema, poisoned wounds,
ulcers, bad legs, piles, etc.
All chemists sell Zam-Buk at 1/6 & 3/6 box.
Zam-Buk Medicinal Soap II- a tablet.
Boys’ Bats
!
AUTOGRAPHED
BY ALAN KIPPAX
All bats have spring handles with
rubber insertion.
N.S.W. Sports
Store, Ltd.
26 Martin Place, Sydney.
AT,AN KIPPAX, Director.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
Contains everything a woman needs to know.


to:
No. 99 SET. Contains the essentials for
perfect “Valet” shave-—the razor,
strop and three blades in leather-
ette-covered case
3 /-
Managing Agents for Australia * —
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
New Zealand Agents:
VAN STAVEREN BROS., Ltd., Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch.
“What does that mean —‘Strops
itself’ ?”
“There’s a stropping device built into
the head of the razor —strop just slips
through the razor head!"
“Yes —and then? ”
“Then all you do is run the Valet Auto-
Strop razor to and fro. Click, click—
and the blade is instantly sharpened
without taking it out of the frame."
“Surely that sharpens only one side
of the edge?”
“No, no both sides are stropped
alternately."
“Should be pretty sharp when
you’ve finished.”
“Sharp! It’s the keenest razor edge
there is—and it lasts for months."
‘Stropping take long?”
“Ten seconds each morning, and you
get the same principle right through
the Valet range: 3/-, 10/- or 22/6.
All dealers sell them."
“Good. I’ll get one to-day.”
Forsters Bedsteads Ltd
MARY ANN STREET, ULTIMO.
(’Phone: M 4247).
Forster s Bedsteads Ltd.
manufactured the first
Hospital Bedstead in
Australia, and are still
manufacturing the finest
Hospital Bedsteads used
throughout the Common-
wealth.
©
A very up-to-dat/e Bedstead used in numerous hospitals through-
out the Commonwealth. Has adjustable back and Hercules
Diamond Wire. Made with l Jin. posts. Can be made with
square corners at foot end if required, also lift-out foot end.
tre
HOSPITAL DRESSING TROLLEY.
Large, easy-running 4in. Castors, ball-
bearing, nickel rail round ends and back of
top. Size of top, 25in. x 18in. Height from
floor, 38in.
Manufacturers of all kinds of Metallic Beds for the
Household, Hospitals, Ships, Institutions, or for any
special purpose.
Established 1859.
Still leaders of the trade with ranges of new designs.
THE LARGEST PLANT OF ITS KIND IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
Manufacturers also of Wood Beds, Ice Chests, Mattresses, Chairs, also Steel Shelving, Lockers and Cupboards.


Where /hall I
ft
c*
\
At the
GROSVENOR
Because it’s near-
est to the Railway
Station, all trans-
port facilities, and
theatres. It offers
309 fireproof rooms,
109 bathrooms, the
best of food, the
best of service.
T ariff:
From
£3/10/-
weekly
n
c- Adelaides Fines't UnUce/u'ed Jtotel
opp. Railway Sin. North Terr ace ADELAIDE
WHAT DOES SPENDING COST?
How much does it cost you to spend £100? The answer is
£l 00 down and at least £4 per annum for the rest of your life.
Yet what man would knowingly spend £lOO that put him
under obligation to pay £4 per year for life.
None, perhaps, but many do it unconsciously when they spend
money that might otherwise have earned interest at 4 per
cent, indefinitely.
Every pound you spend has attafhed to it an invisible string
of pennies which you spend with it.
Keep your money in a Savings Account and earn, not spend,
4 per cent, interest per annum.
<£bflimoitmltl) Saving Bank of Australia
(Guaranteed bv the Commonwealth Government).
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for l!oorr> Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
m
Address Manager—
HU WES, J/I'D.,
Cafe ami Hotel Proprietor-
BRISBANE.
Salvage.
w. GRAEME-HOLDER
TELLS ANOTHER, CAPITAL STORY O’ THE
TRIALS AND TRIBULATIONS O’ PVIR SAILOR-MEN.
CAPTAIN SEARLE ascended to the
bridge of the s.s. Media after dinner,
•J and cast sundry anxious glances at the
wheel-house, the sky, the sea and the sail-
maker working at the weather dodger.
During the afternoon the breeze had stif-
fened into a gale, and by nightfall a southerly
burst had ripped all the eyelets from the
windward bridge dodger, the quartermaster
was cursing a wildly-swinging compass card,
the look-out was sheltering in the lee of the
anchor-winch, and the watch below was play-
ing nap for safety-matches.
The third officer stood at the captain's
elbow.
“Going to be a dirty night, sir,” he said
respectfully.
“Going to be? It is a dirty night, Mr.
Twomey. Get all the men on deck, and lash
everything. If there was any shelter to run
to we’d be running to it. As there isn't,
we’ll shove through it hard.”
“We’re flying pretty light for a night like
this, sir.”
Captain Searle listened to the thrash and
roar of the propeller as it lifted for appreci-
able seconds, then buried itself again in the
mounting walls of water, wrenching the
racing engines and arousing protesting groans
and squeaks from all parts of the trembling
hull.
“Aye, Mr. Twomey. About seven bells in
the first watch she’ll be roaring, and I’d
advise you to keep an ear lifting for Gabriel.
Your first trip in these waters, ain’t it?”
“Yes, sir. Served my time across the
herring-pond with Cunard.”
“Huh!” Captain Searle’s bearded lips
curled slightly. “I remember you saying
something about it when you came aboard.
Ocean greyhounds and floating palaces, eh?”
“Something of the sort, sir.”
“Huh! Well, you’re at sea at last, lad.
Southerlies in the Tasman are things which
all good seamen expect to be able to thank
God for —personally. Keep a good look out,
and put her head south a couple of points.”
“Aye, aye, sir.”
Captain Searle went below.
When the second officer came up to take
over the first watch lie was shrouded to the
ears in a thick pea-jacket and muffler; his
peaked cap was jam lied down over liis eyes,
his shoulders were hunched and his temper
was brief.
“How’s her head?”
“Wes’-nor’-west, two points north.”
“What for?”
“Old Man’s orders—and keep her there.”
"Suppose he knows. Righto. You can
buzz off.”
“Dirty night, Mr. Power.”
“For amateurs, yes.”
At five bells the ordinary seaman of the
watch on deck clawed his way to the galley
amidships, poured a pannikin of black coffee
from the reeking pot, which stood upon the
fiddles above the stove, conveyed the steam-
ing vessel expertly in the direction of the
bridge, paused in the lee of the stokehold
ventilator while he surreptitiously consumed
a generous half of its contents, and there-
after made heavy weather to where the
second officer was peering resentfully into the
whistling night. As he reached the bridge
he lurched artistically and spilled a teaspoon-
ful of the aromatic liquid, and the second
officer came down upon him in wrath.
“What’s this?” demanded the second officer,
as he seized the pannikin and glared into
its depths.
“Your coffee, sir,” replied the ordinary
seaman respectfully.
“Where’s the rest of it?”
“Spilt it, sir, coming up, sir.”
“Oh, did you?”
“Yes, sir. True’s Gawd, sir.”
"Tune you got your sea-legs, ain’t it?”
“Yes, sir.”
Flying spume descended upon the extended
neck of the second officer, and he retreated
to the lee of the wheel-house, and the ordi-
nary seaman chose that moment to return
to his uneasy seat upon the steam-pipe casing
abaft the No. 2 winch, where he waited
patiently and somnolently for eight bells.
An hour before midnight Captain Searle,
clad in oilskins and sou’-wester, reappeared
upon the bridge.
“Dirty night, sir,” the second officer
pointed out.
“So I’ve heard,” replied Captain Searle,
with mild sarcasm. “How’s her head?”
“Wcs’-nor’-wcst, two points north, sir.”
“Very good. Ease her wes’-nor’-west. Mr.
Power.”
“Aye, aye, sir.”
The quartermaster repeated the order
in a loud voice, and the ship’s nose possibly
swung a little to the south. As far as the
quartermaster was concerned the two points
made little difference. The compass-card
swung as wildly as ever.
Midnight found the lightly-loaded irou
tramp battling gamely in a raging sea and
making five knots. Her deck was deserted
save for the solitary look-out on the fo’c’s'le
head ; having given up all pretence of looking-
out, he was crouched upon his heels with his
back to the weather and clung profanely
to the for’ard derrick lashings.
Captain Searle was squinting fruitlessly
into the shrieking blackness ahead and bit-
terly wondering who first thought of this
sea-life. The feeble glow from the mast-
head lights illumined haloes of horizontal
rain, and in the sudden sharp gusts the rig-
ging whistled mournfully.
The sea, now running in huge, broken
rollers, threw the struggling ship almost upon
her beam ; and then she would .slide down a
face of water at a crazy angle, her tail in
the air, her engines racing, her propeller
furiously helpless in a welter of flying spray,
her whole fabric pulsating with an energy
which threatened every rivet. At times she
would rest upon an even keel, and for a
few happy moments dash spiritedly along
upon the crest of a moving mountain —and
then again the sickening descent, which
hurled the engine-room staff into clanking
corners, and filled the stokehold with escaping
steam and blasphemy.
One bell in the second watch.
“She’ll never do it, sir,” roared the first
officer between his cupped hands. “Shall I
cast off boat-lashings?”
Captain Searle did not catch the complete
sentence. H'e turned his head slightly and
hung grimly to the bridge rail as the ship’s
nose rose violently into the air, crashed over
a huge sea and plunged recklessly into the
following one. A water tank on the weather
side broke from its moorings under the im-
pact of a black wall of water, which thun-
dered down upon the for’ard deck, smashed
across the hatchway abaft No. 2 winch,
crashed through the lee rail and disappeared.
“Shall you what?” bellowed Captain Searle
savagely.
“Shall I cast off the boat-lashings, sir?”
“What the hell for?” The Old Man’s
stentorian rudeness was carried down wind
and offended the first officer. “If this box
of tricks won’t live in it, how do you expect
an open boat to do it? Go for’ard and see
what’s happened to the look-out.”
“Aye, aye, sir.”
Captain Searle leaned back against the
wind as he crossed cautiously to the wheel-
house. The quartermaster was nodding, but a
clout upon the ear woke him to battle.
“What the”
“How’s her head?’ snapped Captain Searle.
“West-nor’-west, sir.”
“You’re a liar! Blast you, you’re half
asleep. You’ve let her pay off and damn neat-
swamped her !”
The quartermaster stared incredulously at
the binnacle and spun the wheel violently.
“Report to me at ten o’clock.”
Captain Searle returned to the bridge
rail: the quartermaster growled something
about being lucky if any of them saw ten
o’clock, and spat malevolently.
The first officer battled to the captain’s side.
“The look-out is over the side, sir,” he
reported.
Captain Searle turned quickly, snatched
a Holmes buoy from its bracket and hurled
it to windward. Its tiny blue flare bobhred
against the weather plates, defied the lashing
propeller, and in a moment was thrown from
a breaking sea in a smother of foam.
“Waste,” he muttered, as though lie re-
gretted the impulse.
lie turned sharply on the first officer.
“Well, what did you do?” he bellowed.
“Sent another man up from below, sir!”
“Well, go and send him down again, you
blasted fool! What are we now—murderers?
I’ll do all the watching from here!”
“Aye, aye, sir.”
At six bells Captain Searle sniffed the air,
peered aloft at the faintly outlined masthead,
felt in his pocket for his pipe, turned to the
first officer, who was sulking by the lee
dodger, and remarked, “I’ll turn in now, Mr.
Frith. Give her two points north at eight
bells—and give me a call if you happen to
experience a return of nervousness.”
The first officer smiled sourly.
“Aye, aye, sir.”
Captain Searle paused at the head of the
bridge-ladder and lifted his head question-
ingly. The beat of the engines beneath his
feet seemed to be easing in sympathy with
the expiring hurricane.
It was. In three minutes it had ceased
altogether, and, losing the little way she had,
the ship slowly swung broadside to the seas
and commenced a lurching drift to leeward.
“Stopped!” ejaculated Captain Searle
incredulously.
The whistle in the speaking-tube sounded
a piercing blast, and a brittle Clydesid
voice informed the bridge that, had it not
been so dunderheaded as to run the engines
full ahead all night, there might have been
an even chance that this rattletrap of a tub
would have weathered the “wee bit storrrm.”
As it was. the for’ard connecting-rod had
a wobble like a giraffe’s kneecap, and the
engine-room hoped to see the bridge in
Hades before sunrise.
Captain Searle’s reply was not a reply
in the accepted sense of the word. It was
a comprehensive expletive, which brought a
grin of admiration to the quartermaster's
Teutonic countenance.
The dawn broke upon a helpless ship wal-
lowing heavily in a rapidly subsiding waste
of short, choppy seas; and when the first
sunray gilded the rim of the funnel, the
wind freshened for a little while, then died
wearily. Captain Searle snored in liis bunk,
and the cook, despairing of separating the
sago, lentils and tea which rustled over the
floor of the galley, swept them all together
and dumped them over the side.
The third officer yawned and leaned sleepily
upon the bridge rail, philosophically regard-
ing the wreckage of the fore-deck, and was
saved the ignominy of dozing upon duty
only by the timely hail from the look-out
for'ard.
“Ship on the starboard-bow, sir!”
The third officer stared off the starboard
bow. the watch on deck stared, and within five
minutes a very touchy Old Man also stared.
“Got the glasses!” ordered Captain Searle
sharply.
For some minutes he examined the black
mass which showed at intervals above the
restless waters some five miles distant; then
he turned to the third officer and thumped
him cheerily between the shoulder-blades.
“Well, son,” he asked affably, “how do you
like the Tasman? Don’t put too much faith
in this lull; it’ll blow again by nightfall.”
The Old Man seemed quite pleased by the
prospect, and Mr. Twomey silently wondered
why any sane man could view with equa-
nimity a recurrence of martyrdom in a
decrepit pill-box like the Media.
Captain Searle spoke to the engine-room.
“When will you have steam on her, Mr.
Mclntyre?”
“Whin Ah’m ready,” came the prompt
and uncompromising reply.
“And when will you be ready, Mr. Mcln-
tyre?” Captain Searle was acidly polite.
“Juist as soon as Ah can, Mr. Searle.”
“Might I request your presence on the
bridge for a little while, Mr. Mclntyre?”
“Y’ might, yes; but Ah wouldiia come.
Ah’ve got cairtain duties to attend, Mr.
Searle. These bitties o’ bent wire an’ tin
wliit y’ call engines disna seem t’ be wantin’
t’ stay in your crazy ship. Ah’ve juist dis-
suaded a big end from bustin’ through the
sides.”
“I’m sorry for that, Mr. Mclntyre; but if
you would kindly spare me a moment I think
you might see your way clear to hurry the
job a little. There’s money in it.”
Mr. Mclntyre appeared on the bridge, and
Captain Searle pointed to where the battered
hull of a sailing-ship broke the line of the
horizon.
“Salvage, Mr. Mclntyre.”
Mr. Mclntyre dexterously extracted a pair
of steel-rimmed spectacles from a secret
pocket, adjusted them upon his nose, drew
his bushy eyebrows together, lifted his chin
and peered steadily into the distance.
“All’ll do whit Ah can,” he said cautiously,
after a few moments’ inspection, and forth-
with returned to the bowels of the ship.
Early in the afternoon watch the engines
gave a trial turn, and stopped. Half an hour
later they started again with increased con-
fidence, and Mr. Mclntyre reappeared upon
the bridge.
“She’ll gang',” he said sourly, and at half-
speed the Media bore down on the relic of the
storm.
In the brilliant sunshine the sailer pre-
sented a sorry picture. Of her three masts
only the stumps remained standing; the
whole of her top-hamper trailed over the
sides and astern in an inextricable tangle
of spars, canvas and cordage. She rolled
heavily as though waterlogged. The after
boat-falls hung from empty davits, while
from the others the boats hung in splinters
against the ship’s sides.
“Barque Empress, out of Perth, bound for
Sydney,” announced Captain Searle as the
Media crept closer.
“Bound for the bottom, Mr. Searle,” cor-
rected Mr. Mclntyre, gloomily.
“We'll chance that, Mr. Mclntyre,”
As the Media manoeuvred close in to the
windward side of the wreck, Mr. Mclntyre
spoke again.
“An’ juist whit wull she be worth, d’ye
think?”
Captain Searle was busy dusting the
mouthpiece of a megaphone and the query
remained unanswered; a moment later his
voice boomed across the water in the direc-
tion of the curious heads which showed
above the bulwarks of the Empress.
“Ship ahoy!”
A bewliiskered figure ascended the battered
poop-ladder of the barque Empress, cupped
its hands and returned the hail.
“Ship ahoy!”
“Are you in need of assistance?”
The question appeared entirely unneces-
sary, but maritime law demanded it, and
Captain Searle was punctilious in matters
of maritime law.
The reply came loudly and like a blow
between the eyes to the men on the bridge
of the Media. “No ! All's well, and thank you !”
There was a moment of stunned silence •
then Mr. Mclntyre whispered fearfully :
“Whit did he say?”
Captain Searle shook his head.
“He said ‘No,’ in a loud and cheerful
tone,” he replied acidly. “Ilis trouble has
gone to his head. I'll give him another hail.
Empress, ahoy ! Can we do anything for you?”
“Yes,” came tin* immediate and gruff
response. “Sheer off and give us sea room!”
The 'third officer laughed injudiciously.
Captain Searle snarled. Mr. Mclntyre turned
a cold squint upon the comedian. The third
officer beat a strategical retreat to the wheel-
house.
Mr. Mclntyre reached for the megaphone
and his rasping tones broke upon the silence
with direful warning.
“Empress ahoy! Wull ye gang to the
A’mighty wi’ yer sins thick upon ye, or wull
ye gang to Sydney wi’ the rest o’ us?”
But to this came no reply. Captain
Joseph Binter was leaning over the remains
of the poop rail of the barque Empress and
was addressing the survivors of his crew,
who had ceased their labors for the moment
and had gathered aft at his request.
“Men,” said Captain Joseph Binter, “how
many of you are in favor of taking a line
from that box of tricks to starboard and being-
led into Sydney like a lousy dog? Come on,”
he invited after a pause—“come on ! How
many of you are sailors?”
Captain Joseph Binter glanced keenly over
the group beneath him and noted the signs
of restlessness. He glanced aloft at the
wisps of cloud hastening in the upper air,
the long trailers of woolly vapor which radi-
ated from the southern horizon.
“You know as well as I do,” he went on
purposefully, “that to-night we’re going-
through it again. We haven’t a spar worth
two dollars, and the cargo is floating around
in the hold. There’s about one chance in
ten thousand that the Empress will see day-
light to-morrow.”
(Continued on page 57.)
Dirge.
Not dust to dust, not ashes to ashes, nay!
Beauty only in beauty passes away.
But often the change
Finds the heart ill-prepared, and all
seems strange.
The steel of newness strikes the flint
of trust
And there revolt flashes
Blue, beautiful flames;
Something is ashes?
Somebody dust?
Ah, the dear, dead names!
The sweet, long love that bore through
bud and leaf
Melts in a gradually softening grief.
Bore is not always joyous. Beauty not
often gay;
There's a famished rose in Eden ; there
was a king in Thule;
We must at last be friendly with loss
and decay —-
Beauty is dead, long live the Beautiful!
Blowing from regions far and strange
The clouds of change
Muffle the pinnacles of longing till
Brace averts her gaze, Evil's no longer
ill.
Tears are so mortal! Let the heart
sag
“Beauty only in beauty passes away.”
Through what occasions, who will
know
Through what heart-seasons the brown
world will blow,
Blunging the starry spray
To our new Olivet?
The hoofs of the soft-eyed does
Crush dandelions in play;
The mountain violets smother in moun-
tain snows.
Which shall the heart regret,
The snow or the violet?
VICTORIA.
FURNLEY MAURIOK


Hanking, Public Companies, etc.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. . . £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares . . 703,125
Ordinary Shares . . . . . . 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS ;
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the horn.;
papers, meet their friends use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HOTEL
IWETRQPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
front Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/-per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
®{{e Register
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of -Auditors —
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUN WICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
Übe Boimmon.
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion' is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to —
P.O. BOX 1481. WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
THE PATRIOT
■ DIRECTMEDIUM Tg WOMEN!
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Itep.: 11. C. HINCIICLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
Shipping, etc.
tsjw e/ .
■jsjui'A
as
SfliHfcn
A
L«
NTOW you may see Hawaii
| and shoot the breakers
in the matchless surf
of Waikiki Beach. And no
more desirable holiday can
be planned than a Union
Company Excursion Tour to
Hawaii that lovely island lost in the South Seas, lazy and laughing in
sunshine. Canadian-Australian Liners, now commencing summer excursion
runs, will carry you with comfort and enjoyment through calm seas, opening
the fascinating book of travel at New Zealand, Fiji and Honolulu. Plan
to sail on one of the following dates:
December 12 January 9 February 6
UNION STEAM SHIP CO.,
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINE
Excursions to Hawaii
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
t
JAVA
(The Wonderland of the East).
OLD BUDDHISTIC AND HINDU IS TIC TEMPLES—NATIVE BAZAARS.
EXCELLENT BIG-GAME SHOOTING. BEAUTIFUL TROPICAL SCENERY.
EXTENSIVE TEA GARDENS. INTERESTING PEOPLE.
Regular monthly sailings by the favorite vessels
“MARELLA” (7500 tons) and “MALABAR” (5000 tons).
The Beautiful Solomons
Full of interest and romance and situated only seven days
steaming n.-e. of Sydney. The comfortable and popular
S.S. MATARAM sails from Sydney on December 2 1, and six-
weekly thereafter, visiting 30 picturesque Island Ports.
ROUND TRIP 4h WEEKS. FARE £4l
Write for Pamphlet No. 52/8 to
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
m
niiMui ii
i
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund. .
Reserve liability
ret
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20.900,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 192 b, £88,982,585.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
554 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
“BRISBANE COURIER”
IS THE GREATEST ADVERTISING
MEDIUM IN QUEENSLAND
Advertising figures have proved over years that both Local and
National advertisers regard the “Courier" as the greatest daily
newspaper published in Queensland.
For the month of August the “Courier” carried almost 1000 cols,
of advertising, or approximately 24,000 inches of advertising more
than its contemporary
THE “BRISBANE COURIER” IS
FIRST IN CIRCULATION, COVERAGE, ADVERTISING
AND INFLUENCE.
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper Co., Queen Street, Brisbane.
Rep.: Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 85007.
Shipping, etc.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
and
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
*Ascanius . . 10,048 tons, Dec. 24,
tEuripides . . 15,000 ~ Jan> 28
*Nestor . . 15,000 „ Feb. 17
tßunic . . 12,500 „ Feb. 25
11,500 ~ Mar. 15.
*First class only. f“Cabin ’ class only.
IFirst and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson,
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Ltd. |
I
Joint
Agents
Splendid Cheap Service
Via Suez Canal.
FAST OIL BURNERS
Fares to London from £3B.
To Colombo from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued from Sept, to Feb., £32.
P. S 0. BRANCH SERVICE
SPACIOUS DECKS—DECK CABINS —EXCELLENT
MENU —CINEMA —DANCE MUSIC REPRODUCED
WITH ELECTRIC AMPLIFIERS—
CANVAS SWIMMING BATH
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 86701
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Seti
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/L/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/•
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST RUREAU, CIIALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Pliilp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddarf ParkerL
• . Magnifloenl
Fast PaB3BiigBi
Staaiiuhiiu
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and rice versa.
Particulars to lie obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars a-pply lIUQD ART PARKER LIMlfiJ
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
Uelumhom
l via the
ALLRED
ROUTE
Europe
r
m
Across the backbone of Canada
—through scenery found only in
the mighty Rockies—lakes, swift
rivers, primeval forests, glisten-
ibf, glaciers, extensive parks—
bewitching Banff and hake
Louise—the Great Lakes and
mighty Niagara.
Canadian Pacific chain of hotels
stretch across the Continent,
assuring welcome and comfort.
The joyous route to and from
Europe. Write for beautifully
illustrated literature to
CANADIAN PACIFIC,
247 George Street, Sydney.
£*
y
/
CANADIAN PACIFK
TRAINS STEAMERS HOTELS
The Worlds'greatest travel syste^
If any illustration in Tiie Bulletin take®
your fancy, write to the Manager, who ff lll
quote you price for the original


CAcMcM <
Your “Swan” is as
individual to you as
your own handwriting
The choice of a
“ Swan 55 Pen shows
that you have a
just appreciation of
quality and all that
it implies in the
making of a perfect
writing implement.
Noiv
made in
Charming
Colours
Swan'
PEN®
Self-Filling “Swans” from 17/6 (Black or Mottled)
Also in Artistic Colours from 22/6
“Fyne-Poynt” Pencils from 7/6
Self-Filling “Blackbird” Pens from 9/-
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue post free
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., Swan House, London, W.I
Factories : London and Liverpool.
Managing Agents and Repair Service Depdt:
PHIPBON & COMPANY, LTD , 181, Claience Street, SYDNEY
L'sWANj
vet 61
Jade
Rolled Gold
Bands
5.F.230C
Black or
Mottled
(wiili clip)
27/6
FOR
’SWAN’ PENS
AND
ALL PENS
E(A.)
ftreffi.-aaafta
NOW NEATLY CASED at same price!
A strongly-made grained-leather case is now provided with every Plurn
Razor, at no increase in cost. With its blade set to perfection—guaran-
teed and kept in order for two years free the Plum Razor shaves cleanly,
easily, quickly—leaves the most delicate skin smooth and comfortable.
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 ~
Real Ivory Handle 21/- >•
Satin-lined double case free with pair.
7-day Sets—7 Razors in Case.
Black, 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory, 140/-
Post free to any address.
CRAIG & A I T K E N, 654 George Street, Sydney.
“Well wot’s the 'vise of chucking yet life
away?”’asked a little Weather-beaten sea-
man standing in front of the group. If
■he’s going to the bottom ’ ——
“Who said she was going to the bottom t
demanded Captain Joseph Binter.
“Well, wot we going to do With er if
she don’t, that’s wot I’m a,skin yer V ’
Captain Joseph . Binter stared for a
moment at the speaker, and noted that from
all round came mutters of agreement.
His lips cuiied, and his voice Was bitter.
The little seaman was annoyed. “I don’t
see no use in stayin’ with the ship” lie
begam
“Right!” cut in Captain Joseph Binter
decisively. “We’ve no time to argue about it.
Step out, Huggett.” .
The little seaman stepped forward defi-
antly. . .
“Who’s going with him? You?” Captain
Binter’s forefinger jabbed the air in the
direction of the nbdders. “You? You?”
Two men joined the little seaman, and the
remainder hung sullenly back.
“Any more rats?”
There were no more rats.
“You three go for’ard and collect yoiii
dunnage, and don’t waste any more of the
men’s time.”
Captain Joseph Binter turned to the rail
and hailed the Media.
“Media, alioy! Send a boat.”
Captain Searle rubbed his hands, and his
frown lightened. He snapped a few orders,
and the second and third officers jumped to
obey.
“Take a line with you, Mr. Power. B<;
ready to pay out a hawser, Air. Twomey.”
“Aye, aye, sir.”
“He prefers Sydney to the delights of
the hereafter, Air. Mclntyre,” the captain
added.
Air. Alclntyre donned his spectacles and
snorted, but no man could have judged his
thoughts thereby.
Air. Power brought his boat skilfully be-
neath the swinging ladder which dangled
from the rail of the Empress, and, with the
end of the trailing line which connected him
with the Media in his hand, climbed rapidly
to the deck of the windjammer. Captain
Joseph Binter, standing with a semi-circular
background of curious .seameii, thtee of
whom carried kitbags and wore oilskins and
bats, silently awaited him.
“Air. Power, of the s.s. Aledia,” the second
officer introduced himself, tying off the line
he carried on the fiferail.
“Cap’n Binter, of the barque Empress,”
replied that gentleman in a similar mono-
tone, ignoring the line and extending his
hand. “I shall be under a deep obligation
to you, Air. Power, if you will convey these
three men aboard your ship.”
Air. Power, his confidence shattered, shook
the hand of Captain Binter, and expressed
bis willingness to oblige.
“Huggett, Svenson, Mowbrey. Over the side.”
In silence the men named climbed down
to the waiting boat.
“That will be all, thank you, Air. Power.
I trust that I may have the pleasure of
meeting you in Sydney, sir.”
Air. Power looked into the eyes of Cap-
tain Joseph Binter, shook his hand mechani-
cally, and returned to his boat full of words
which he could not utter.
Captain Searle watched the boat leave the
side of the Empress, and shouted an order
to Air. Twomey.
“Bend that line on the port hawser, Mr.
Twomey.”
Air. Twomey threw a swift clove-hitch
around the eye of the three-inch manila
hawser which had been ranged on the
fo’c’s’le-head and waited.
Captain Searle opened his lips to give the
order to pay out the hawser as Captain
Josjph Binter lifted the line from his life-
rail, but the order died before its birth, and
as the line splashed into the wrnter Captain
Searle turned to Air. Alclntyre.
"What the hell’s he doing?” he demanded
imperiously.
Air. Mclntyre removed his spectacles deli-
berately. folded them carefully, placed them
111 .his pocket and turned to the bridge-ladder.
“Ah’m thinkin’ that yon loon is a fair
specimen o’ the breed that built our maritime
tradeetions,” he said unemotionally. He
turned at the head of the ladder and exlii-
oited a little heat. “An’ the next time the
guts o’ this thing com’ apairt All’ll tak’ m’
time feexin’ ’em !”
Caotaui Searle snorted. “I’m standing by,
Air. Mclntyre,” he announced sullenly.
“Wheer the carcase is, theer shall the
vultures be gathered tagither, Air. Searle.”
replied Alclntyre piously as he slowly de-
scended to his proper place.
Even before the boat had touched the
side of the Aledia on its return journey a
.lury-mast had sprung up in the hows of
the battered Empress. All through the after-
noon the three deserters leaned over the for-
ward rail of the Aledia in splendid isolation
watching their erstwhile shipmates toiling
frantically and heroically, and listening to
the frequent bursts of song as ancient sea-
chanties were applied to the assistance of
straining arms and bending backs. Furious
activity permeated the atmosphere in the
vicinity of the wallowing hull, and Captain
Searle frowned in admiration of misapplied
energy.
At three bells in the dog watch he sent
a hail.
“Empress, ahoy! I am standing by.”
The reply came promptly and breathlessly.
“You have plenty of room, but don’t let
me waste your time.”
Huggett and his companions accepted their
ostracism with calmness, and relied upon the
dawn for their justification. They ate the
bread of idleness with keen enjoyment, and
made their beds beneath a tarpaulin which
had been thrown over the derricks above the
forward hatch by a disgruntled bos’n.
During the night the wind returned with
slightly less fury. Black clouds shut out
the stars, and the three pariahs smoked hap
pily and listened to the belting rain upon
their improvised and flapping tent. Mr.
Mclntyre spent anxious hours listening to
the distressing knock in the connecting rod
as the engines turned slowly, and Captain
dearie retired to his stateroom at midnight
praying that the Empress would last until
daylight, and mentally picturing the size of
the pile that his share of the Salvage would
assume if it were reduced to half-crowns.
When the howling blackness betrayed a
greying edge tlie second officer aroused the
captain ifi accordance With instructions, and
as the dawn rose from the sea the two mari-
ners minutely examined all the visible face
of the Waters with the most powerful binocu-
lars with which science and the ship’s own-
ers had thus far provided the s.s. Media.
Anxiously they scanned the farthest horizon
and the nearest roller, and all the roaring
magnificence encompassed thereby.
Far Ufa the port quarter rose and fell a
tangled mass front which a splintered spar
would rear itself.
The .two men examined it in silence for
tome three minutes, then turned on a com-
mon impulse and looked into each other’s
eyes.
“Foundered, sir,” said the second officer
quietly.
Captain Scarle nodded his head in agfee-
mrn t.
“There iS One born every minute,” he re-
plied with deep and bittei; conviction as he
lurched to the speaking-tube.
Mr. Mclntyre grimaced as the whistle
sounded close beside his ear, and he steeled
hi.s heart to hear the evil news which he
had been expecting for the last half-hour.
“She’s gone, Mr. Mclntyre,” rasped the
captain’s voice.
“Weel, whit did y’ expect?” demanded
Mr. Mclntyre with asperity. “’Tis only by
the eenfinite maircy o' God that we hav’na
followed hair tae the bottom in oor eeni-
quitoUs desire tae accumulate more vile dross
frae tin; suffering o’ itliers! Ah’m tollin’
ye,. Mr. Scarle’’
But Mr. Searle did not wait to hear the
moral exordium. He Snapped up the tube
and telegraphed for steam.
Mr. Mclntyre sighed heavily, for souls
and salvage were the substance of. most of
his dreams, and gently opened the throttle.
Just before sundown the s.s. Media made
her landfall and continued to stagger at half-
speed to her next abiding-place, and as the
stars brightened she clanked gratefully up
the harbor.
Later, Captain Searle stepped from the
Harbor Board’s launch on to the concrete
landing. He had been taciturn all day, and
contemplated being taciturn for many days
to come, for salvage is a rare prize, and he
felt that he had a personal quarrel with
the Lord and Captain Joseph Binter. He
had come ashore to report the foundering
of the Empress, and to find an adequate
hostelry. He had preserved an acid silence
in the presence of the pilot and the Customs
officials. He felt that he could not endure
sympathy while he was unfortified by ardent
spirit.
As he stepped upon the w T harf a splash
of deeper blackness detached itself from the
shadow of a near-by shed and approached
him unhurriedly. Captain Searle looked dis-
trustfully at the burly figure and increased
his pace.
“Cap’n Searle?” queried the stranger in
a vaguely familiar voice.
Captain Searle stopped as a heavy hand
fell upon his sleeve. lie turned belligerently.
“That’s me. Well?”
“Thought I’d just wait around for you,
Cap’ll Searle.”
The stranger towered above the other, and
his teeth showed in his beard as he smiled.
“My name’s Cap’n Joe Binter—of the
barque Empress.”
Captain Searle opened his eyes and splut-
tered.
Captain Joseph Binter opened his mouth
and roared with laughter.
“Sorry to have given you the slip, Cap’n,
but I thought it advisable to take advantage
of a favorable breeze and run for port while
the hull held together.”
Captain Searle extended a hand instinc-
tively in an endeavor to find something solid
to lean upon, and Captain Joseph Binter
grasped it heartily and wrung it painfully.
“Favorable breeze!” muttered Captain
Searle.
“Come and have a bite of supper,” said
Captain Binter.
-!* '!• •!’ •!-
Mr. Mclntyre, seated in the privacy of
his cabin, extracted a long pin from beneath
the lapel of his shore-going coat and applied
it to the purpose for which he kept it.
In his left hand he held a well-thumbed
and closed Bible, and, shutting his eyes
tightly, he thrust tbe pin blindly between the
pages and opened the book where it struck.
He held the book before his eyes and opened
them suddenly and read the first verse upon
which his eyes fell, as was his invariable
custom in moments of stress.
This evening he had chosen the book of
Romans.
“ ‘Oh, wretched man that I am,’ ” he read
solemnly, and closed the book reverently.
“Aye.” he breathed thoughtfully, as he
prepared for sleep, “yon Paul kenned the
trials and tribulations o’ puir sailor-men!”
The Curse of True Love.
HAROLD MERCER
HIS LANDLADY TELLS
THE STORY OF ROOM 21.
THE Bible says,” my landlady told me,
“that the curse of true love always
runs to smoodge; and,” she added,
"there was never a truer word spoke. It
was no wonder the Egyptians let the
Israelikes go when that was one of the
plagues. I’ve kep’ apartments for years
and I’ve often had to give people notice fer
the same thing.
“You see, I won’t ’ave my tenants dis-
turbed. I’m that soft-’earted. There was one
rouple I ’ad ’ad to put out came back to me
again. ‘Well,’ I says, ‘you can ’ave your old
room, but it will be four shillings a week
extra for breakages.’ As you know, jealousy
is a green-eyed lobster going about seeking
whom it may devour; and it ’ad bit them so
bad if he was a minute late she’d think he’d
been out with another girl, and he’d get
serspicious about ’er it didn’t matter what—
they always found something to fight about.
Love will find a way, as the saying-is.
“But I ’ad to get rid of ’em again. They’d
agreed to pay the four shillings ‘esftra, but
after that they seemed trying to gat their
(Continued on next page.)


• •••••
DAWN BEGGS. Her
mother writes : “My
little girl is a Rexona
Girl, having always
used Rexona Soap,
which I consider ab-
solutely the best for the
skin and hair,”
Rexona Soap is in the sunshine of popularity
because it does all that it sets out to do. Its
devotees loudly acclaim its complexion pro-
ducing properties as the inevitable result of its
wonderful cleansing powers.
“ Beauty is only skin deep,” they say, but it
will not be even that if the youthful bloom
with which Mother Nature endows us is not
protected in earliest years by using Rexona
Soap. Later the use of Rexona becomes a
habit, and the delicately nurtured skin tingles
with indignation when only ordinary soaps are
used. To be dainty and attractive—which all
girls like to achieve—use only Rexona Soap.
Price 1/- per tablet
KS
so
l
1
1
V 1
ID
for Health and Beaut
y
RSI4R
ta&J'/i
Iv'jV Vi
AVOID SUBSTITUTES:
Every genuine Kropp stamped “Made
and ground in Sheffield, England.
mm.
Hand-foiled
from solid bars
of special steel
Kropp Razors are made at Sheffield, England,
by the world’s most expert craftsmen.
Made so well that every Kropp always has
a keener, finer cutting edge than cast steel
or machine-stamped razors. Kropp means
_ day to day comfort in shaving
CjfaQ for the rest of your life.
KROPP
never reqwires grinding
Individually tested, and fully guar-
anteed. Black, Ivory or Xylonite
handles. From the usual dealers.
Wholesale only : OSBORNE
GARRETT & Co.,Ltd.,
London, England,
‘noiiey's worth. ‘l’m sorry,’ I says to them;
‘I knoAv you’re very fond of each other, but
the other tenants Avon’t stand it.’ So they
seek French beans and pastures neAV
from Avhich no traveller returns.
“They was a queer pair, both of them. I
met them afterwards in the street and they
told me they had a ’ome of their own out
at Paddington. So ’appy they looked, ’anging
on to one another like they always did
when they Averen’t throwing things at one
another. ‘l’m afraid Ave Avere trying tenants,
Mrs. Parsley,’ ’e said with a nice smile.
‘But Mary was not to blame. It Avas all
my fault; I Avas always making ’er jealous.’
'You make me jealous!’ she says. ‘The foot
was on the other leg!’ And the nex’ minute
they was at it ’ammer an’ tongues, an’ I
’ad to give ’em good advice. ‘’Ome is the
place for domestic quarrels,’ I tells them.
An’ so it is, even if it’s only a room, when
people really love one another.
“Of course, there are people who don’t
'ave rows. There was a couple I ’ad in
number 21. They used ter come down the
stairs Avith ’is arm round ’er waist.
“ ‘Don’t tell me they’re married!’ says
Miss Perry to me. ‘You never see decently
married people so fond of each other.’ Now,
I can’t abide people who won’t let sleeping
dogs delight to bite. ‘l’m sure they’re mar-
ried,’ I said ; ‘why, they showed me the receipt
they ’ad, made out to Mister and Missus,
from the ’otel they stayed at the night before
they came ’ere. It’s a respectable ’otel, an’
what is good enough for the goose is good
enough for the gander, I says. ‘Let him who
is without sin amongst you,’ as the Good
Book says, ‘live in glass ’ouses.’
“All the same, that was only a superfloot
on my part; I ’ad a pretty good idea that
Miss Perry was right, but as they was per-
fectly respectable but for being so affection-
ate, it was no business of mine.
“You could ’ave knocked me flat with a
feather, as the sayin’ is, when one night,
gettin’ out of me bed to see Avhere the row
Avas, I found it was at their room. LestAvays,
it was outside their room, being a rather fine-
looking woman banging at the door and
screaming through the key’ole.
“ ‘What woman ’ave you got in there?’ she
screamed. ‘ ’Ow dare you lock your door
against your laAvful, wedded wife, you repro-
rake? You can’t pay your money into the
court,’ she says, ‘but ’ere you are with
another Avoman.’
“ ‘Now, Madam,’ I says, ‘you can’t make a
disturbance like this. This is a respectable’
“She wouldn’t even let me finish it. ‘You’ve
got my husband here Avith a strange woman,’
she says. At least, she didn’t say ‘woman’;
in fact, some of the language she used was
outragious. And she seemed so ladylike, too.
“I told her I had no time to look at
marriage certificates, an’ ’is word was as
good as ’ers, at any rate. She made a
fearful to-do —scandalous, it was, as I told
her, makin’ a disturbance like that in a
decent ’ouse. When Mr. Carter opens the
door to ’ave a word Avith me, she pushes in ;
and, of course, I went in, too, to throw my
oar on the troubled waters.
“ ‘No, I am not his wife !’ says my Mrs.
Carter —not knowing any other name, I ’ad
to call ’er that. ‘I did not nag ’im till he
’ad to leave me for peace.’
“ ‘You, Hilda, who I thought was my best
friend! Oh !’ she says, ‘your ’usband will
know about this!’
“‘I don’t care,’ she retortoised. ‘You
did not depreciate your ’usband, but I do,
and I love him, and am willin’ to go to the
gates of ’Ell fer ’is sake.’
“ ‘Don’t you dare mention a place like
that in my ’ouse,’ I said, indignant; but it
was no use. Much as I like to keep my
’ouse respectable, I ’ad to call a policeman in
before I could get them to stop ; an’ even ’e
’ad a lot of trouble to get Mrs. Carter —not
my Mrs. Carter, the other one —to go away
quiet. I told ’er off before she went, I pro-
mise you. ‘lt’s no wonder with raging females
like you,’ I says, ‘that men are infidels to
their wives. A Avoman’s crowning glory,’
I says, ‘is ’er ’air ; an’ she shouldn’t get it
off,’ I says.”
Mrs. Parsley was obviously proud of this
bit of jdnlosophy and repeated it twice for
my benefit.
“‘I must say that Mr. Carter be’aved
like a gentleman right through ; ’e told them
’e would knock their ’eads off if they didn’t
stop, but ’e didn’t lift ’is ’and, not though
both of them smacked ’is face —the strange
Mrs. Carter because ’e wouldn’t let ’er say
the things she wanted to say about my Mrs.
Carter, and the other one because she
thought ’e was sticking up for ’is wife. ’E
was between two stools, you see, and the
onlooker always gets the Avorst of the game.
“ ‘After that matters became rather up-
setting in the ’ouse, what with the strange
Mrs. Carter coming -back off and on an’
avin’ to be turned out, an’ her bringin’
along a Mr. Corless, who I understand was
my Mrs. Carter’s ’usband. These trirangles
make one confused, an’ some’ow I can never
think of ’er even now except as my Mrs.
Carter. Later on this man comes back
again very drunk an’ goes wanderin’ about
the ’ouse talking about shootin’ people, as
if my ’ouse is the ’appy ’unting-grounds
Avhere the lion lies doAvn with the lamb.
I got ’im put out; but in the mornin’ Paddy,
th’ ’andy man, finds ’im asleep in the bath-
room. ’E’d ’id ’imself there to get more
evidence, he said, an’ gone to sleep over it.
“ ‘I think it best, too,’ I says, ‘when Mr.
Carter, most gentleman-like, comes to me
an’ suggests that they ’ad better go. ‘l’ve
’ad Aveddin’s from my ’ouse, but I don’t want
no divorces,’ I says. Still, I couldn’t help
liking him, ’e was so promp’ and genteel. ‘The
curse of true love always runs to smoodge,’
I tells ’im, ‘so don’t be discouraged, for
there may be darker days before the dawn.
You love your little lady, Mr. Carter, an’
you’re quite right to stick to ’er through
fat an’ lean. If you love true she’s yours
in the sight of ’Eaven. After all, a mar-
riage certificate isn’t everythin’, although
I do say it meself, what ’as always been
a respectable woman. An’ that wife of
yours’
“ ‘She was in a temper last night,’ ’e
says, ‘and you saw the worst side of ’er.
She’s a nice little woman, really. Of course,
she’s long ceased to love me, and she’s been
a milestone to me, cold and thinking of
nothing but money; and this poor little
Bill yf faiuQ, with ’er drunken ’usband’*™—*
“I squeezed ’is ’and to show my sym-
pathy, an’ I ’adn’t the ’eart to stop them
when they went away without payin’ the
last week’s rent.
“To my supprise, the strange Mrs. Carter
comes up one day, months later, very quiet
an’ respectable, and looking so sad, me ’eart
Avent out to ’er.
“ ‘I divorced me ’usband,’ she says, as if
she ’as tears in ’er throat, ‘an’ now ’e’s
free to marry this woman—’er ’usband ’as
divorced ’er, too. I thought I’d like to have
a room ’ere. Have you got the room ’e
used to live in vacant?’
“ ‘lt’s a double room,’ I says.
“‘I don’t mind payin’!’ she says. She was
pulling away at ’er gloves, as women will
when they’re feelin’ things ’ard. ‘’E Avas a
fine, dear man,’ she says, ‘an’ I never woke
up to it till the other woman took ’im from
me. I'd like to ’ave the room ’e used to
’ave.’
“The next moment she was sobbin’ on
my shoulder: “But I always did love ’im.
though I was nasty to ’im because ’e seemed
to ’ave grown cold on me.’
“ ‘You poor thing!’ I says. ‘lf you still
love ’im ’e is yours in the sight of ’Eaven,
even if ’e ’as gone an’ married another. An’
’oo knows, when we find refluge in that
hark Avhere the ’erald angels sing, what will
’appen.’
“‘I will never see ’im again !’ she sobs.
“ ‘ln the bright mexico of youth there is
no such word as nil desperandia,’ I tells ’er.
“An’, sure enough, there wasn’t. There
you are, the curse of true love again, an’ it’s
always runnin’ to smoodge, as the Bible says
as 1 Avas always taught to believe in.
“One night, late, bless me if Carter ’imself
doesn’t come in, lookin’ ’aggard-eyed an’
famisliin’.
“ ‘Mrs. Parsley,’ ’e says, ‘l’m throAvin’
myself on your mercy. I want a room; but
I may not be able to pay you for a couple
of weeks-—l’m broke. As you know me, I
thought I might come to you.’
“Thinkin’ of the week’s rent ’e went Avith-
out payin’, I says to myself, ‘I do know you.’
But I says to ’im : ‘Wait a minute an’ I’ll
see’; an’, goin’ out of my room, I meets ’is
wife —’is Avife that used ter be —just outside
my door.
“ ‘Don’t let ’im know I’m here,’ she
whispers.
“Well, I give ’im a room; an’ later on
she comes into the kitchen with a kimono
over the dinkiest nightgown you ever see—
although, if you don’t mind my saying it,
I don’t put it past you that you’ve seen
a few—an’ she commences cookin’ chops.
“ ‘The poor darling,’ she says. *’E looks
as if he ’asn’t ’ad a good feed for a week.
That woman! She drove ’er ’usband
to drink, an’ now she’s making poor ’Arry’s
life an ’ell. So I thought I’d cook ’im some-
thing an’ take it to ’im.’
“‘ln your nightie!’ I says.
“‘Mrs. Parsley—darling!’ she whispers;
an’ kissed me. ‘You won’t mind. I’m
sure. Remember, I am ’is wife in the eyes
of Heaven, whatever the law ’as done.’
“Noav, what could I say to that? It
seemed respectable enough to me. But I
followed along to the bathroom, which was
alongside ’.is room —just to see there wasn’t
any row. So I ’eard ’im cry out as she
stepped into the room with the tray.
“ ‘Get out of this!’ I ’ears ’im say.
“ ‘Arry !’ she says.
“ ‘lt’s you that’s the cause of the mess
I’m in!’ ’e says. ‘The divorce expenses an’
all. An’ that damn woman!’
“ ‘l’ve loved you all the time, ’Arry!
‘Arry, dear! ’Arry!’ is what I ’ear, an’
there’s a sort of tenderness in the Avay she
says it that must ’ave been a world of com-
fort to ’im.
“I went back later and knocked at the
door. Mrs. Carter comes, lookin’ ’appy, an’
’ugs me.
“‘I was goin’ to suggest, Mrs. Carter,’
I says, ‘that now you an’ your ’usband ’as
made it up again ’e might go to Room 21 —
it will save the rent of the extra room.’
“You see, I knew ’e Avas up against it,
an’ I ’ad a neAV tenant waiting fer the room.
It seemed respectable enough to me, them
bein’ married in ’Eaven, an’ lovin’ one an-
other, in spite of the divorce.
“She ’ugged me again, an’ ’e came out
an’ called me a good soul (which, thank
God, I am, ’aving been confirmed), an’ shook
my ’and.”
With which assurance Mrs. Parsley re-
membered she had household duties waiting
for her, and left me to reflect upon the
romance of Room 21.
Lilies of the Valley.
They say that deep within the shady valleys
Of Sweden, running backward from the
sea,
There grow thick clustered, white and frag-
rant lilies,
Embowered in their glossy greenery—
Peaked, tiny bells from slender stems down-
dropping,
Ready to peal an elfin melody.
They say the air will send you mad with
sweetness
When gentle winds along the valleys blow,
And cattle grazing in the sunning meadows
Lift up their heads, and lads and lasses go
Rifling the wild of all its harbored beauty,
Singing, on fire with love, the songs they
know.
And I—l have beside my shadiest corner,
Two little stems of bloom as white as
shells—
Frail, tiny things that weave for my en-
trancing,
F'rom leaf and scent and bud the strangest
spells....
Oh, would that I could be in lovely Sweden
Losing myself among those wind-tossed
bells !
I'd dance along the shady, scented valleys,
My feet among the greenness flashing bare.
Arid Avith the wonder and the magic of the
lilies
I should no longer know a single care ; /
I’d dance like some dark, blue-eyed Northern
goddess,
A young immortal ’mid the lil: s there!
Victoria.
M XRA MORRUS.


mm
BBEwrti* M
WESTING HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—MOJblUJEiS <v OHIiKCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—08-107 Feathereton Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Victorian Office—r' “Chnncery House,” 485 liourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. EI.IVEU, SMITH & CO., I/TI)., Adelaide. S.A.
PROVED!
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
"THE AGE”
Established 185Jfj
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you wish to stimulate the interest of the
Victorian public in your products, digest these
facts:—
Over 123,000 persons purchase “The Age”
daily (60 per cent. Metropolitan area,
40 per cent. Country districts).
Over 96 per cent, of the copies purchased
are home delivered to subscribers.
Over 95 per cent, of the home deliveries
remain in the house for the womenfolk
during the day,
and .
Over 1,000,000 advertisements are pub-
lished in its columns annually.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation
123,533.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies o /
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
P. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 80 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
Che mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
carries regularly a far greater total
volume of advertising than any other
newspaper published in Tasmania.
IT is thus, judged by the use made of
its columns, the. most popular
as well as the most powerful of the
newspapers of Tasmania.
pROFIT by the experience of the
leading national advertisers, and
place “The Mercury” first when
advertising is under consideration.
Average Net Circulation, 20,967.
IT is, undoubtedly, Tasmania’s ablest
and best conducted newspaper.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office:
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
St
■A'
EYES should be
bright and blue-
tinned ....
IF the whites of the eyes are light and bright
with just a pleasing tinge of blue, your health
is probably right. But let eyes show the least
sign of discolouration, let them be dull, and it
. means bad health—constipation and liver trouble.
Constipation causes poisons to accumulate in the
system which give rise to biliousness, lack of
energy, indigestion and other ailments. _
The best treatment is the corrective action of
Beecham’s Pills—a vegetable laxative which
will surely put you right.
Keep eyes bright by taking
BEECHAMS
WORTH A
GUINEA A BOX
PILLS
XMAS ISSUE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
PACES
' ‘fftS
3e£=
re
srfi
o*
0
0
0°
„\o® * 6V
,o& 0
•v«&V5 y


* ♦ ♦ It merits
your entire confidence
VfW:L+
(m 2 I 7
* f , 3
£
|! 111 11]]1
ii
id. 1
&
C
*
Hi
4.
/
Motorists have long placed
their trust in the absolute
dependability of Dodge
Brothers cars. For back of
the Dodge Brothers name
lies an enviable record,
zealously upheld, for fine
and efficient manufacture.
Now, in the new Dodge
Brothers Six, to the security
that inspires complete con-
fidence, have been added
new beauty, new comfort
and new superiority of
design and decoration, thus
offering a further measure
of assured value.
tre
new
Dodge brothers Six
\ Chrysler Motors Product
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W. ... Harden & Johnston Limited, Sydney S.A Waymouth Motor Company Limited, Adelaide
Vic.: Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty.Ltd.,Melbourne W.A. .... Win ter bottom Motor Company Limited. Perth
QM Austral Motors Limited, Brisbane Tasmania: . Co-operative Motors Ltd Hobart
