

mm 1
■ f
m
■
%
s
jMBpBPMHfc
WnMßHmk®
,w*
:
. -
i»
;
*
.
«■
'
i
■■HHI
HHI
- -
- - *« .^--. - *
>■
* i
IMIIIII
afl!
WMomsm
m
Wmmm
mm
t&w
/"W
r -
REGISTERED-
SupeirQaality
6
.
None
'-C ; ; i/ix'
The Bulletin
wtoiftflA (fond CL /Qj&ixil£
Vol. 50.—N0. 2582.
Wednesday, August 7, 1929*
Price bd.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


"THE 1929 LIBRARY CATALOGUE is
A now ready, and will be forwarded post
free, with full terras and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCIv’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“11l reverence kneel to the tempered steel”
Of a sword-blade faultless and true,
With skill to wield ’tis a faithful shield
And a friend when its aid is due.
Like a sword-blade true of tempered steel,
There’s a remedy strong and sure
Our coughracked throats to soothe and heal
In Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
i —-Advt.
urn
iMM
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
10pp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining:
your Muscular Movement System of Writing as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin. j
My Name
My Address
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
w
HW 3
: w
.jps*.
■
r-
STAMMERING AND STUTTERING
CAN BE CURED IN YOUR OWN HOME
Send TO-DAY for particulars of “Perfect Speech” and copies of letters from
those who have been cured. Philip O’Bryen Hoare, M.8.1.M.5c. (London) (The
Stammerers’ Friend), Specialist in Public Speaking and the Cure of Stammering
and Stuttering.
ADDRESS:
56 BRISBANE ARCADE, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
P.O. Bex 1142 P.
P? 4
sa
m
STOP
Backache
ai
Rheumatism
This Eas
svWay
e
e
Keep your blood free from uric acid, and age-
ing pains will not molest you—Rheumatism,
Backache, Swollen Joints and other tortures
cannot then rob you of your healthy activity
and strength. The reliable, guaranteed way
to get rid of the harmful pain-causing acid
is to take Harrison’s Pills, bearing the signa-
ture of a London doctor. Harrison’s Pills
dissolve the uric-acid crystals which lie along
the nerves and muscles, torturing them with
every movement you make. When you take
Harrison’s Pills you feel the ageing aches
and pains glide away; you feel strength and
health return. Hundreds of testimonials. A
hospital nurse writes :
To Amalgamated Laboratories, Sydney.
Dear Sirs,- -You might be interested to know that
the success oj Harrison's Pills in treating Kidney and
Bladder Troubles, Backache, etc., has been such that
I have recommended this remedy to scores of patients,
and I can. testify definitely to their unusual efficacy
and great value for use in these painful troubles.
( Signed ) Sister B. Piper.
Decide NOW to rebuild your life —to get
rid of Rheumatism, Backache, Kidney,
Bladder, Urinary and Uric-acid Disorders!
Get a package of Harrison’s Pills from the
nearest chemist. Three sizes: 18 pills, 2/-;
32 pills, 3/-; and 68 pills, 5/-. Take as
directed, and if not pleased with results
from the very first bottle —money back!
The
Genuine
Uric Acid
Remedy.
è
They
Definitely
Remove
the Cause.
Amalgamated Laboratories. Ke.mbld Bm'Minn. Sydney: and all High-class Chemists.
Winner Last Year
J. R. Jeffrey, Kojarah, N.S.W.
This may be your
Lucky Year !
DON’T DELAY
Buy your
TICKET
To-day
1
A
&
i
a ND L4OO
OWlOthevPnm)
Drawn 16th NOV., 1929
Tickets I/* obtainable
from Local Agent
direct from
A. W. YAGER, MIC.
Secretary,
Trades HaH
Sydney
if any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to tne MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes
CAUTION.—The large sale of Eumenthol
Jujubes has led to a number of imitations
being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important,
therefore, when buying to be sure to get
HUDSON’S Eumenthol Jujubes. You may
be asked to buy other jujubes, and be told
they are “just as good” as Hudson’s Eumen-
thol Jujubes. This proves that these imita-
tions and substitutes have no reputation of
their own. and can only be sold on the good
repute and high character of Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold everywhere, tins 1/6; or forward 1/6
in stamps to the Manufacturers, Hudson’s
Eumenthol Chemical Co., Ltd., Sydney.
For Coughs, Colds and Sore Throats.
m
o
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. Th e Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected lung.
D. A Lobe of on#
of the Lungs,
The Red Page
The Limeburners’ Camp
t •?' Bertie, of Sydney’s Municipa
Library, has discovered manv notabl
things about Old Australia; but he ha
never better explained a chapter of ou
history than he has done by discovering
The Adventures oj Ralph Rashleigh (Cape
Oy mocks).
It is the biography' of part of the career
ol a lazy young law-clerk in London, during
the days of the Regency, who fell into an
evil and expensive habit of life which he
found it necessary to sustain by means of
burglary., So he came to New South Wales
as a convict, was assigned as assistant
to a schoolmaster who might almost have
been Dr. Halloran, lost it through dabbling
in forbidden political matters, and was sent
to Emu Plains, where there was an agricul-
tural establishment worked by prisoners—
there is a very different place of the same
sort there to-day—and practised a crude sort
of mixed farming in a chain-gang. He had a
devil of a time at the foot of the Blue
Mountains, but it was nothing to the very
devil of a time he had at the mouth of the
Hunter River, when presently, for his alleged
sins, they sent him along to Newcastle. It is
his descriptions of these two harsh and
severe penal settlements that give the book
its value as a footnote to history. His ad-
ventures amongst the blacks between Port
Stephens and Cape York, when he eventu-
ally became a “bolter,” are well told and
thrilling; but it is of Emu Plains and the
Limcburners’ Camp that he writes with most
interest for the student of Australian history.
The book supplements three others deal-
ing with its period. In “The Historical
Records of Australia” we are provided with
the official view. Surgeon Peter Cunning-
ham, R.N., in “Two Years in New South
Wales,” has drawn a vivid picture of the
social conditions of the young colony.
Alexander Harris, the “Emigrant Mechanic,”
has left us “Settlers and Convicts,” the
story of a free settler who made good.
And now these adventures of Ralph Rash-
leigh show us what sort of a miserable time,
some of the convicts endured. Can Mr.
Bertie now dig up the authentic point of
view of a woman of the.time? It would be
invaluable.
Of the hopelessness of outlook which was
the lot of the assigned servant in the bush,
this clear explanation is a good example lof
Rashleigh’s sincerity and sense of justice h
They were mostly half-starved, spirit-broken
wretches who were as likely to receive punishment
as incorrigibles or crawlers if they applied for relief
to the magistrates; and even if they happened to
win an appeal against a master, he was always able
by cruelty to make them regret their success. The
majority of the settlers were time-expired convicts
who had themselves suffered from the treatment,
and by that curious twist of human nature, they
mostly took pleasure in visiting the same hardships
as they had endured upon the unfortunate men who
were assigned to them. They were a rapacious class,
but lacking in that self-control which is essential
for the building of a fortune upon small beginnings,
and the profits of the harvest were as often as
not dissipated in a bout of debauchery which left
them penniless for the rest of the year. It was an
almost normal condition for settler, family and
assigned man to live for over half the year on maize
and a small ration of pork. Against all the ill-
treatment and hardship there was only the magi-
strates’ court from which to seek relief and protec-
tion, but as tiic magistrates were to a man employers
of assigned convicts, their interest was so naturally
the maintenance of the most, stringent system of
discipline and subordination that the aggrieved men
were practically helpless.
There is a horrible description of how
bolter-bushrangers evened things up with
an ex-overseer by pegging him out on a
soldier-ants’ nest, and stories of public
raping. But for grisly horror nothing can
approach the Limcburners’ Camp, behind
what is now Stockton. Very little about it
has come down to us, and this is the most
detailed description of the infamous spot
that I have come across. That iron dis-
ciplinarian Major James Morrisett was
Commandant at Newcastle at this time
though his name is not mentioned by
Rashleigh. The gangs at the limeburners
collected sea-shells which were convertec
into lime in kilns, existed on the minimum
ration allowance, went stark naked, and
were always raw-backed from the severest
floggings—which condition, however, did
not excuse them from carrying baskets,
neck-deep in salt water, to load the barges.
Here we have the Commandant, a zealous
and efficient officer, well esteemed at head-
quarters :
1° Kashleigh it seemed that this man’s temper
was completely perverted. Scenes and sounds which
aroused pity and loathing in any ordinary man were
a source of fiendish delight to him, and it .was a
habit ot' his suddenly to spring at the scourger and
belabor him with his riding-whip in order to make
him ttog the tied convict with harder blows. His
especial pleasure was to select men from the boat-
loaders’ gangs and have them flogged until their
backs were raw, so that he could enjoy the sight of
the writhings and the sound of the shrieks as he
compelled them to place their baskets of lime on
their bleeding hacks and wade out into the stinging
salt water. His eyes would dilate with satisfaction
at the pain caused by the lime slaking in the blood
of the wounds. Several times during his stay there,
Rashleigh saw men drown themselves before the
eyes of their torturer, whose comment was always
to the effect that it would save the Government rope
and the hangman a job.
Which calls to mind a story about the
Major.
“You have a great deal of flogging here,
Mr. Commandant!” remarked a naval
captain visiting the Coal River settlement.
“Oh, yes—some. But not much hanging
—only seven in the last half-year.”
J.H.M. ABBOTT.
One day she danced where wave on wave
Had trampled hard the level shore.
Supple as water, she trod as grave
A measure as they trod before.
Yet she was as light as the airy death
Of each torse breaker, her lips gay
With the same insolent, easy breath,
Her hands its drifting soul of spray.
But for that flagrant body of hers—
.... , rave bs the lustre kings command
With bannered blare of trumpeters—•
It might have been a saraband.
Such stateliness attends the still
Old statues of another day:
Had they such passion, they might fill
I he world with gods less calm than they!
But the tense poise flared into shame,
flickered, falling: through blind fears
Stumbling, I caught what seemed a flame,
Burnt by her mouth’s red lire to tears.
Frederick T. Macartney, in “A Sweep
oj ! Aite-string sP just published- for private
circulation by the Galleon Press, Cahterburu
victoria.
Real Characters in Fiction
Readers sometimes find on the fly-page
of a novel some such inscription as this:—
The characters in this book are all imaginary,
iityl have no relation whatsoever to anyone who is
alive, or who bears the same name.
W hen the experienced reader encounters
this device to avoid the fate of the author
who called one of his characters “Artemus
Jones,” and was sued for libed by a real
Artemus Jones, he knows what to expect—
that the characters will be dull and color-
less. Interest would be stimulated and the
danger of a libel action would be no greater,
probably, if the inscription went:—
All the characters in this book are drawn from
life. They represent the writer’s sincere opinion
ot his casual acquaintances, friends arid enemies.
Nothing is imaginary except the names.
In most cases this statement would also
have the merit of truth. Obviously, if
characters are to come to life in a book
they must be drawn to a large extent from
life. Dickens used his father as a model for
Micawber; Leigh Hunt was Skimpole, and
so on; and it has been said that Thackeray
found places in his books for every man,
woman and child he met. The modern
writers of best-sellers follow the same prac-
tice. Some of the studies of eminent Vic-
torians in the novels of H. G. Wells are
more vivid than anything their biographers
have done, or are likely to do—his oft-
quoted picture of the Sidney Webbs,
for example. Arnold Bennett’s books are
full of easily identifiable members of the
fashionable set in which lie moves. Certain
great, personalities seem to fascinate almost
every type of writer. Thus at least a
dozen fud-length portraits of the late Lord
Nortbcliffe (all more or less libellous) have
been done by craftsmen as different in
method and age as Stephen McKenna and
William _ Gerhardi. Other popular writers
put their conceptions of themselves into
their novels and short stories—notably
Michael Aden and Gilbert Frankau. “The
Polyglots,” despite Gerhardi’s modest dis-
claimers, is palpably autobiographical.
In addition to characters which are
photographed, so to speak, there must be
many thousands which are built up as a
scientist builds up a dinosaur or other
animal with which his acquaintance is slight.
The writer meets an interesting personality
—perhaps for no more than a. few minutes
—and knowledge of human nature does the
rest.
As about 10,000 novels are published in
Britain alone every .year, and as some form
of crime or immorality figures prominently
in most of them, it follows that the output
of libellous comment which goes not only
unpunished but unnoticed must be enor-
mous.
That this should be so is a noteworthy
social phenomenon.
No doubt most of the studies are only
libellous in the sense that the complete
truth about any adult human being, if set
down ruthlessly, is libellous. But others are
frankly provocative, and the victims are so
well known that to “fit the cap,” as
required by law, would be easy. Take
Hilaire Belloc’s last book, “The'Haunted
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


“Truth in Advertising;’ so essential to successful trading , is practised always by Anthony Horderns.
Book Lovers! —
Here are Amazing yet
Genuine Reductions from
Anthony Horderns’
SURPLUS FAT
AND MOW TO REDUCE IT
W.F
miZ3^CMRISTIE
M D
Fosters
Contract Bridge
I'h E QUEST
ron BOWLERS
•'C.T.B.TURNER
METHODS O /
MEMDOZA
3 j
•
e
m
\
m
W
/a
//
S
0
&
e.-A
- -
//
Published at
2/6, 4/6, 5/-
6
d.
each
now
SURPLUS FAT AND HOW TO REDUCE IT, by W. F.
Christie, M.D. A clear and concise book to help those who
wish to be slim. Published 5/-
THE QUEST FOR BOWLERS, by C. T. B. Turner (‘The
Terror”). A most instructive and helpful book for cricket
enthusiasts. Published at 2/6
FOSTER’S CONTRACT BRIDGE, by R. F. Foster. The
best complete book devoted to contract. Published at 4/6
METHODS OF MENDOZA, by William Caine. Delightful
and most amusing from beginning to end. Published at 2/6
These volumes 6d. each, or 1/9 for four. Postage 6d. extra.
Published at
6/- each
now
Vg
each
CURRENCY
♦ft LASS
J 4
janes J/
DEVAN EY
The League of
Missing Men
J M WALSH
THEDAGGERe
JF-i CORD
T J AFDAM
~ Y BE
r BRUNE
T T
The MAN BEHIND
\the CURTAIN I
J M WAUk
a
Four excellent novels, full of excitement and human interest.
CURRENCY LASS, by James Devaney. A picture of life
in convict days!
THE LEAGUE OF MISSING MEN, by J. M. Walsh. A
stirring detective story, full of thrills.
THE DAGGER AND CORD, by Aidan de Brune. A first-
class mystery, cunningly unravelled.
THE MAN BEHIND THE CURTAIN, by J. M. Walsh. A
refreshing mystery story, entertaining reading.
These volumes 1/6 each, or the four for 5/~.
Postage 2d. each extra.
Books of
General Interest
The Wild Animals of Australia,
by A. S. Le Souef & H. Burrell.
Price 28/6. Sale Price, 15/-
Postage 1 Od.
The Empire’s Junior Partner
—New Zealand, by C. A.
Wilson. Describing phases of
N.Z. life and Maori History.
Price 7/3. Sale Price 3/6.
Postage 4d.
Prides of the Fancy, by Trevor
C. Wignall. Price 6/-. Sale
Price 3/11. Postage 4d.
Auction Bridge Simplified, by
J. C. H. Macbeth. Price 7/3.
Sale Price 4/3. Postage 3d.
Keeping Fit, by Col. H. G.
Mayes. Price 3/3. Sale
Price 1/6. Postage 3d.
*Msr
£*?y
OF
ss
Oil
THE
GREAT TO-DAY W
CREATER FUTURE
HENRY FORO
**»«
SMa
Ih« HYGIENE
YOUTH"*B£AOTY
JOSlr
GINSBURC
. i“i D
ea
6
Published
at 6 1- and
7/6 each
Three books of intense general interest.
THE GREAT TO-DAY AND GREATER
FUTURE, by Henry Ford. Published 6/-. Postage
2d. extra.
THE V STERY OF NERVOUSNESS, by Robert
S. Ciinoil, M.D. Extraordinarily helpful. Pub-
lished at 6/-. Postage 3d.
THE BOOK OF YOUTH AND BEAUTY, by
Josif Ginsburg, M.D. Well written and illustrated.
Published at 7/6. Postage 3d. extra. These three
volumes 1/6 each, or 3/9 for three. Postage 6d.
Novels to Suit
All Tastes
Notre Dame, by Victor Hugo.
Romola, by George Eliot.
Robinson Crusoe,
by Daniel Defoe.
Sale. Price 1/6 each.
Postage 4d. each.
Swift Lightening,
by J. O. Curwood.
If Winter Comes,
by A. S. M. Hutchinson.
Cappy Ricks, by Peter B. Kyne.
Where the Pavement Ends,
by John Russell.
Scaramouche,
by Rafael Sabatini.
Helen of the Old House,
by H. B. Wright.
Sale Price 2/- each. Postage 3d.
This Genuine Sale Ends Saturday, 10th August.
Anthony Horderns'
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
Telephone M 2401
Day and Night


For the first time . . .
CLASSIC ART deliberately
utilized in motor car design
NOTE bow the dynamic symmetry of Chrysler
fender contours and wheels expresses the very
essence oflife and motion, just as do their counter*
parts in the “wave border” of the classic master-
pieces of architecture and design .
9
u
u
yrr
i? !•* *,
jm
M-v
2* J
THAT Chrysler motor cars are so differ-
ent in appearance from all other
motor cars is not to be wondered at in
view of the unique plan by which their
remarkable beauty has been attained.
Chrysler engineers recognized, as no others
had recognized, that true beauty in auto-
mobile design must come, not from a
chance inspiration of individual designers,
but from a conscious and deliberate plan.
Guided by glorious precedents in art,
architecture and design, they applied the
authentic forms of beauty which have come
down the centuries unchallenged and un-
surpassed and translated them into terms
of motor car utility and beauty.
It is because Chrysler style and beauty have
this secure artistic foundation that they have
won the admiration and enthusiasm of
thousands upon thousands the country over.
And motorists may depend upon it that
Chrysler style and beauty will always be fin-
er, because they draw their inspiration from
the recognized principles of classic art.
The New Chrysler "65.” The New Chrysler "75.”
The New Chrysler Imperial.
CHRYSLER
A CHRYSLER MOTORS PRODUCT
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS :
New South Wales . . . Larke, Neave & Carter Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Collins Motors Pty. Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Ward Motors Limited, Brisbane
West Australia Wm. Attwood Motors Ltd., Perth
South Australia O. T. Rodda Motors Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania Metro Motors Pty. Ltd., Hobart
New Zealand Todd Motor Company, Wellington
New Guinea W. R. Carpenter & Co. Ltd., Rabaul


è
House.” One of the most repellent figures
in it is a millionaire newspaper proprietor.
The newspaper “belongs to 'Cad’ Toronto.’
It is “base” and “a rag”; it is “published
at Lord Toronto’s hideous building off
Fleet-street,” and edited by “a Mr. Euston
who had been Eustein somewhere in
America years ago.” There is only one
Canadian newspaper magnate in England
(Lord Beaverbrook) and Ralph Blumefeld,
formerly of New York, is his editor-in-ehief.
It would be easy for these celebrities to
get the necessary two or three witnesses to
say they had identified them as Toronto
and Euston, but they would not dream of
doing it. So far as can be seen they do
not resent Belloc’s unflattering account of
their activities; anyhow, his books are re-
viewed as appreciatively by the Beaver-
brook papers as they are by any other
paper.
In “Dodsworth” Sinclair Lewis presents an
American Lady Ouston, whose husband
has political and racing ambitions, and great
wealth, but is “owned by his wife.” She
conducts a salon, gives famous dinners,
disapproves of alcohol (for working men)
and despises her birthplace. Nine English
readers out of ten would fit this unattrac-
tive cap on Lady Astor, but they would
give her no sympathy if she brought an
action. Yet, when she first entered the
House of Commons and a fellow-member
attacked her on far less damaging lines, she
got an immense amount of sympathy. She
spoke against a proposal to widen the
divorce law, and a pro-divorce M.P. pointed
out that she had divorced her first husband.
The license given to literary artists seems
to be akin to that which is enjoyed by
pictorial artists. David Low has said more
unpleasant things in caricature about his
employer, Lord Beaverbrook, than Belloc
ever has in print. Modern portrait-painters,
from Sargent to our own Lambert, have
been as plain-spoken about many of their
sitters as any novelist could be. There is
no law to protect people from being photo-
graphed in the streets. If society did not
agree, with hardly any dissentients, that
novelists are entitled to draw people as
they see them, fully half the time of the
courts would be taken up with libel suits.
JOHN DALLEY.
A Blow for England
Brian Penton recently concluded on the
Red Page that England has no “towering
creative mind,” that, £esthetically and intel-
lectually, England is “living on the smell
of yesterday’s dinner,” and that literature
has collapsed because “England has found
no one to synthesise the infinitely complex
emotions released by the war.” Just what
he means by that last incredible statement
I have not the least idea. If he means that
there has been no good literature on the
war he is wrong; if he means that the
war has destrojmd English literature
he is wrong. But when he says that Eng-
land has no great creative artist (unless
“art” for Mr. Penton means something dif-
ferent from the accepted definition of the
word), he is showing extraordinary imper-
ception. There are in England at the
moment no fewer than six “towering creative
minds”—Havelock Ellis in psychology,
Laski in political thought, Orpen in paint-
ing, Strachey in biography, Gustav Holst
in music and Lawrence in literature. In
addition, one remembers such nonentities
as Sir Ernest Rutherford the physicist,
Julian Huxley and J. B. S. Haldane the
biologists, R. A. Fisher the statistician and
mathematician, Humbert Wolfe the poet,
Pigou the economist, H. M. Tomlinson the
essayist and travel-writer, G. P. Gooch
the historian, Bertrand Russell the philo-
sopher and educationist, Sir William Ash-
ley the economic historian, Robert Lynd
the artist in words, and Gordon Craig, man
of the theatre. Many of these men have
not only created something, they have de-
finitely widened the horizon of the human
mind.
Havelock Ellis once pointed out that
in art there are cycles, the artist moving
from a relatively primitive technique to a
high degree of refinement, and then return-
ing to the original sources. That, it seems
to me, illustrates the position in England
to-day. are at the end of an epoch,
and in many countries the returning swing
of the pendulum has definitely and discern-
ibly begun. Illustrative of the interests
of the time are the rise to notice of negro
sculpture, the study of the art of the
Maya, the sudden return to Dutch and
German primitives, the compositions of the
most significant of the younger generation
of living composers—Schonberg, Van Die-
ren and Bartok—who have turned back
to melody, the ebbing of the wave of free
verse, the creations in furniture of such
Belgian artists as Decerf and Dangotte,
the writings of Sigrid Undset, Ladislas Rey-
mont and Liam O’Flaherty, the simplifica-
tion of stage sets, even the present-day
interest in etchings and woodcuts—essen-
tially the simplest forms of art.
Although these influences are drawing the
artists into new paths which will mean
simplification of form, the best writers in
England at the moment are those who
possess a great degree of sophistication.
Mr. Penton does not appear very sophisti-
cated, therefore he has probably not noticed
the work of Virginia Woolf, Aldous Hux-
ley, T. F. Powys, A. E. Coppard, James
Joyce (whose “Ulysses” might be provo-
cative of experiments in the novel for
the next 100 years), of Naomi Mitchinson,
Mary Webb, E. M. Forster, Romer Wilson,
Rose Macaulay, Harold Nicholson and
Philip Guedalla, to say nothing of Margaret
Kennedy, Brett Young (for his “Black Dia-
mond” alone), Norman Douglas, and such
Irishmen as Ernest Boyd, Donn Byrne and
Sean O’Casey. Among the recently dead
are Edward Thomas, James Elroy Flecker,
Rupert Brooke, Katherine Mansfield,
L. C. A. Knowles (of the “Industrial and
Commercial Revolutions”), H. W. Massing-
ham, C. M. Doughty, C. E. Montague,
W. P. Ker and W. H. Hudson. With ordi-
nary luck Thomas, Brooke, Katherine
Mansfield and Dr. Knowles might have
been alive to-day; all had much to say,
all could say it with some distinction.
But the war cost us Brooke and Thomas,
and thus, to some degree, Mr. Ponton’s
blaming of the war is justified, though in
a way other than he intended. Yet we
still have with us such poets as Walter de
la Mare, Masefield and •A. E. Housman
(and one has vivid memories of the second
book of poems by the author of “A Shrop-
shire Lad”), such etchers as James Mcßey,
such painters as William Nicholson and
Henry Lamb, Russell Flint and the
Knights, such musicians as Frederick Delius.
No, on the whole, England is not artisti-
cally and intellectually dead; Mr. Penton
is profoundly ignorant.
QUENTIN PORE.
Books Worth Reading
This list has been compiled by a com-
mittee nominated by the Associated Book-
sellers of Australia and Maoriland, and is
printed as a guide to books of merit
General Literature. —The W orld Crisis :
The Aftermath, by Rt. Hon. Winston
Churchill; Field-Marshal Earl Haig, by
Brigadier-General John Charteris; .Memoirs
of an Old Parliamentarian, by T. P. O Con-
nor ; Great Short Biographies of the W orld;
A Soldier’s Diary of the Great War ; Eon-
don Town, by J. B. Booth ; The Fringe of
the Moslem World, by Harry A. Frank;
Focli Talks, by Commandant Bugnet.
Novels of Literary Merit. —The Coat
Without Seam, by Maurice Baring; shep-
herd of Israel, by Leonora Eyles; Slaves
of the Gods, by Katherine Mayo; Judith
Silver, by Hector Bolitho.
Novels for Popular Reading- —Houp La,
bv Crosbie Garston; The Bishop Murder
Case, by S. S. Van Dine; Said the Spider,
by Mary Marlowe; Fraser Butts In, by
liugh Glevely; A Family that Was, by
Ernest Raymond; A Wild Ril'd, by Maud
Diver - The Perfect Murder Case, by Chris-
topher Bush: Crisis, by Claude Houghton;
Miss Lavender of London, by Joan Ken-
nedy- Nile Gold, by John Kmttel.
A Satchel of Books
Animals in Blade and White, Vol. V
(Reptiles), and Vol. VI (Fishes and fcea
Animals). The concluding volumes of the
fine studies of animal life by woodcut and
letterpress made by Eric Fitch Daglish for
Dent. The six volumes make the most useful
and engaging children’s set seen for many a
day, while atiy single one gives the rverage
child more thrills than the average adult
can get nowadays out of looping the loop.
Visitors to Hugo, by Alice Grant Rosman
(Mills and Boon). Here a former Bulletin
writer breaks new ground in one respect.
The Oxford undergrad., Hugo, smashes him-
self up in his car, and the whole action of
the story takes place “off” while he is sufter-
ing a recovery at his mother’s London house.
The literary value of the work, which is con-
siderable, lies in its shrewd and kindly char-
acterisation. Hugo, Bunny and their friends
are fashionable and yet pleasingly un-
Arlenish young people, and there is much
quiet humor in the portrayal of their elders.
War, by Ludwig Renn (Seeker ; Robertson
and Mullens). Focli once remarked that Bol-
shevism is a disease of defeated nations. In
the case of Germany it seems to be writing
post-mortems. This book has not the broad
human canvas of “Sergeant Grischa,” It is
a perfectly straightforward chronicle. But
one realistic detail is piled on another until
the muck, muddle and misery take on tne
dimensions of an epic. Apparently the sol-
diers of the Vaterland started out with more
illusions than those of the Allies, otherwise
books like this could hardly have the enor-
mous sale they enjoy in Germany.
Brochard, by A. L. Collier (Stockwell).
An “Australian” novel of astonishing
naivete. The hero, who writes articles for
the Daily , which are talked of admir-
ingly in trams, is told by “Mr. Trippet, the
chief,” to go to Paris and “report on the
Peace Conference to be held there shortly.”
“At present,” lie replies superbly, “I cannot
see how I can possibly comply with your
wishes.” The heroine is so successful with
her violin “before the King and Queen at
the London Opera House” that her teacher,
th(> Signor Lipari, destroys himself in his
studio on the night of her triumph in despair
of ever being worthy to call her his.
Me —the Handicap, by William T. Tilden
(Methuen). The racy, brief autobiography
of the great tennis champion, a good idea
of whose style and matter can be had from
these references to Australia: —
Australia is passing through an interesting period
... .The marvellous fighting inspiration of Patterson’s
match temperament did much to offset his lopsided
game, but his style was never one to make a wise
model for a young player to follow except as a
match player. Anderson and Hawkes had been un-
sound in style, and until recently the general game
in Australia was the slap-bang-killing-speed-demon
style of Patterson. Gradually, in the past five years
and especially in 1927 and 1928, a new group of
youngsters, influenced by the modern all court French
style, has grown up.... Even though in 1929 Aus-
tralia has no players whose results are the equal
of the Patterson and Anderson of five years previous,
the general national trend is along sound modern
lines. 1 believe much of this modernisation of
style can be traced to the policy of the ever-
modern, ever-constructive Norman A. E. Brookes.
That marvellous master of the past, although playing
little himself, is still the greatest of teimis geniuses.
Tilden records of bis attempt to enlist: “I
went to join the Signal Corps, but, like so
many other tennis-players who rely upon
their legs and feet for speed, was pro-
nounced flat-footed.”
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except o) a hostile character) will be taken o] communications insufficien tly st
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re con ri
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
E.O’N.: You’ll give yourself a better
chance if you’ll write only one par on a sheet....
Equs: Thanks; it shall be passed 0n... .0.E.M.:
Good deal of merit; but too many pens have
ploughed that furrow.... Stutt: About as convincing
as a flapper’s ’flu cure... .R.K.: All hurled back.
. ...J.8.K.: Yarns round the camp-fire gone up in
smoke... .T.T.H.: Ghost nailed in its coffin
G.M.: Shows vivacity and some capacity. Blown
over, as requested. .. .P.8.V.: A good notion ; pity the
construction is so p00r... .P.L.: honey for Pro-
fessor B. Swax V.G.W.: Yes, the real bush-lover
generally has a town address.... K. D.S.: State-
ments far too general... . E.F.: We seem to have met
the “Three Sisters” before; we don’t like any of
’em Clew: That's the funniest thing (o hand for
weeks. It often has been... .M.M.C.: Made us realise
that Maoriland has had a dreadful time... .M.E.:
Review of the book already in type... .F.J.A.: You
may do better later; present samples are no evidence
that you will R.W.G.: One wild round:—
The Jackass’s twinkling eyes they saw
The snake hid in the grass;
And winging down, that laughing bird,
A sw'oop, a snap, a pass!
Higli in the sky went bird and snake;
To bird the victory.
For dropping w'ith a sick’ning crack
Fell victim in a tree.
A broken back! A dying snake
That would hiss never more,
A Jackass with a Ha, Ha, He!
His vanquished foe then tore.
G.P.: Can’t get anything from your verse except
that you have been round the world twice and seen
a few niggers at C010mb0....M.G.: There is an arti-
ficial crinkle about them... .A.K : Have a swing, .but
that alone is not enough... .C. 8.0.: Don’t tempt us
to go into the prophecy business. .. .M.C.O'C.:
“Crowning-adorning” is only one of your rhymes.
. ...J.H.: Not enough punch... .C.W.S.: So dull
that all we can say of it is that it’s dull W.A.G.:
Your initials don’t spell the truth. ...A.J.: Too
much platitude to win our gratitude S.D.Y.:
“The Dying Fighter” made the basket shape up to
the radiator... .M.W.: One, “Mahina,” only just
missed. Spoiled by archaics. .. .G.H.8.: Bills has
finished his bender in the office cemetery....
K.J.P.: Far too thin T.H.F.: Your pirates are
the beach-parade sort E.K.R.: One misses by a
hair-breadth. Would like to hear from you again
F. 8.; A fragment of your ideal day:—
When apples dropped o’er garden walls
And lay upon the street,
The urchins tossed them back again
With no desire to eat.
Ric: Neither suitable Peanut: Opened and
found empty H.F.W.: Sorry, no room for more on
it H.E.D.: “Storm Wind” has been allowed to
subside... .E.M.S.: Correct enough, but little poetic
feeling... .Bourke: Ideas need harness dressing or
something R.M.: Think less of the original since
reading your parody M.P.H.: Room for four lines
of the testimonial to the camp cook: —
Our extra driller, when h.e came,
Was nothing but a walking frame;
We built him up from, skin and bon.es
To sixteen stone —-with thanks to Jones.
Skeeter: How young are you? It’s rather on the
green side... .T.McC.: No offer for the Crumble;
our lions like ’em less scraggy M.X.: Read ‘The
Semblance of a Sentiment,” but couldn’t find it----
P.A.: Can’t even add “Q” A.E.W.: l’retty old
tale, that... .P. 11.: Moving-picture stuff.... 1-L>-'•
Doesn’t piece together. .. .J.A.M.: Interesting as a
reminiscence; try a sports magazine.... I• •
Sort of thing that’s seen in dreams but never happens
. ...D.D.: Nicely written, not suitable for us, but
might find a place elsewhere. Get the “Aus. and
X.Z. Writers’ and Artists’ Year Book” H.E.C.: It
might interest old-timers, but out of joint, with
moderns L.Q.. Loquacious Letty stifled m the
basket A.8.C.: “Mum’s port” now labelled
\,Y.Z H.A.L.: Can't digest your dogmeat....
W. 8.: No camp here for the haughty rabbiter. .. .
M.P.: Open to consider other —if better —stories....
A.G.W.: “The answer direct,” is “No”. •• • J-J-:
Story of the Malay lady who was “small-boned,
beautiful and quite fat” lacks charm... . A.A.: Ripe
fruit; the tale of a fat man,” drops early to the
ground. .. .Cen Ten: Indications of a sense of humor,
but of local interest merely... -T.H.F.: Some
of the lies are ingenious; others suggestive
0 f gi„ C.W.H.: Interesting as anthropology,
but not a story.... R.T.Q.: “Too utterly!
she whispered. Precisely A.J.H.: Given a
little more thought and care it might have suc-
ceeded. .. .L.S.H.: Bright, but strains credulity....
W.F.T.: The type you find fascinating fails to
fascinate us P.A.W.: A muddled screed
L.H.W.; Point well made but story not quite suitable.
Laurel: You write of law who know it not
W.J.E.: The liniment was stronger than the yarn.
. ...S.E.C.: Too much sugary sentiment W.A.M.:
The ginger cat and the buttered baby have no
dramatic interest.... Ke Be: Authorities differ. But
“scab” was used in Shakspeare’s time in the sense
of “a dirtv, paltry fellow”. . . .Chug: Wickens gi\es
the figures to June 30, 1928, only. Then there were
207 561 registered motor vehicles in N.S.W., 150,343
in Vic., 76,011 in S.A., 75,989 in Q., 38,380 in
W A., 15,176 in Tas., 41 in Centralia, 366 in North
Aus.’and 1284 in F.C.T. A return of motor acci-
dents, “known to the police,” is available for three
States during the year to Dec 31. Persons killed
numbered 328 in N.S.W., 269 in Vie. and 73 in Q. :
persons injured, 7124 in N.S.W., 3254 in Vic. and
1154 in Q.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.L.L.: You’re two years too late with that gag.
g p j jfot yet... . .R.B 1 .: Dreadful attempt to draw
a' wedding group... .J.L.: Away with your “Auto-
crat of the Macleay” .. - -M.T.: Even the curtains and
the teacups arc badly drawn. .. -M.R.S.: Misses
G.S.: Have sent your flappers home J.T.: Map of
Australia balanced on a doll’s house and a scarecrow’s
shoulder—it looks like that... .R.W.C.: You’re at
the bottom of the class. .. .M.A.: Don’t wonder that
it has remained unpublished. .. .S.R.: You have an
idea of composition and that’s about all.


é


The Bulletin
Vol. 50.—N0. 2582.
August 7, 1929.
ANOTHER CONTINUOUS FLIGHT RECORD.
STAN: “Wonderful the interest they show in us, Earle! We ought to get a great reception when we land.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
21-’i George Street, Sydney; Box 252188.
Victoria : Hi-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westrai.ia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Regent 5795.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 !/s.; 6 months, 12s. Cd.;
5 months, 7s.
To any ADDnisss Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 13s. lid.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies.^—Commonwealth, Few Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom •• Jjoz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional Jjoz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: Ijoz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
REAL CHARACTERS IN FICTION—
By John Dailey .. .. .. .. 2
ENGLAND’S CREATIVE MINDS—
By Quentin Pope . . . . . . .. 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . . . 5
THE FRONT-PAGE CARTOON, BY LEASON .. 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
Compulsory Insurance More Bruce
Benevolence 8
FRILLS AND A RAILWAY . . . . 8
RUSSIA’S AIRCRAFT MENACE . . 8
SOLDIERS’ RIGHT OF PROTEST ..8
SO AUSTRALIANS CAN WRITE NOVELS! 9
A CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 9
POLITICS 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) 11, 12
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. .. .. 14
POVERTY POINT .. .. 15
CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. . . 17
“SAFETY FIRST”—an Art Comedy . . .. 17
“SHOW BOAT” 17
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
COMMERCIAL BANK OF SYDNEY . . . . 18
METROPOLITAN (MELB.) GAS .. ..18
PITT, SON AND BADGERY 18
GOODLET AND SMITH 18
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 23, 25
OWEN AND MOIR’S ’PLANE AT CAPE DON 25
Free Service Department .. 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 32
WHAT’S BEST TO DO WITH STUBBLE? .. 28
SUPER. AND OTHER MANURES . . . . 28
PREPARING FOR THE SHOW 28
MORE ABOUT TUNG OIL 28
SMOKE-OH 34
PEN AND PICTURE 37
NEWEST MOVIES AND TALKIES .. ..37
ART SHOWS 37
THE INKY WAY 37
SPORTING (illustrated) 39, 41, 42
V.A.T.C. AUSTRALIAN HURDLES .. ..39
WARWICK FARM RACES 39
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 44
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 46
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 49
“Paradise Plumes” . . . . 50, 51, 52
COMPLETE SHORT STORIES—
“WITHOUT PRAYERS TO BED,” by Mar-
garet Fane and Hilary Lofting . . 55, 57
“A BUSH T.P.0.,” by Henry G. Lamond 57, 58
VERSE —-By Roderic Quinn, R. Crawford,
Kathleen Dalziel and E. M. England.. 55, 58
Next Week.
TWO COMPLETE STORIES—
“THE SUITCASE,” by Lilia Gormhuille McKay;
“THE PARSON’S PUNCH,” by Harold Mercer.
Both full of human interest.
A Survey of Prohibition in the U.S.A., by an
Australian social student in America,-—an important
contribution.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 7, 1929.
MORE BRUCE-PAGE
BENEVOLENCE.
The Bruce-Page Government muddled
through 1928-29 with a deficit of £2,338,300,
and in an unwonted spasm of economy,
characteristically irrational, it has dismissed
many hundreds of munition-workers, air-
craftsmen, artillerymen and area officers,
disbanded C.M.F. battalions and laid up
warships. It has taken these hazardous and
heartless steps at a time when “unemploy-
ment,” as its Customs Minister Gul-
lett has said, “is round about 10 p.c,” the
burden laid upon industry by arbitration
courts, the 44-hour week, the two income-
taxes, the two land-taxes and the N.S.W.
child-endowment tax of £2 in the £lOO of
wages being greater than industry can bear.
But it wouldn’t be the Bruce-Page Govern-
ment if it wasn’t flirting with some fat-
headed proposal for spending millions on
what it is pleased to regard as good works.
Its financial difficulties are largely due to
the grant of £2,000,000 p,a. to the States for
motor speedways, which have cost £14,000,
£16,000 and, in one case, £28,000 a mile.
Now there is reason to fear that it is going
on in its blundering fashion with an ill-
digested and ill-timed insurance scheme.
Nobody asked for this showy project.
The trade-unions are apathetic. The
friendly societies are hostile. Hostile also
are the employers, especially those whose
industrial life has become a dreary round
of filling in forms, arguing with inspectors
and walking delegates, defending arbitra-
tion cases, resisting strikes and paying taxes.
The scheme is based on compulsion, and if
it is foisted on the community employers
will have to pay Is. a week for every male
employed, and sixpence for every female,
and deduct corresponding amounts from
their wages, and keep proper accounts, and
submit these accounts as directed. Also they
will have to find more tax-revenue for the
Government’s share of the expenditure and
the cost of administration, which is certain
to be heavy—an Insurance Board of five
members, appointed for seven years, is
proposed, together with a Commissioner
and an Advisory Committee in each State.
But no employer will receive any benefits,
however much he may pay; nor will his
dependants be able to claim even if he falls
on evil days and dies leaving his wife and
children penniless.
Maoriland has a national provident sys-
tem which is heaps better than the gaudy
thing Bruce-Page proposes. Voluntary for
the most part (an important exception is
that hospital boards are obliged to insure
nurses), it provides for maternity and in-
capacity allowances, widows’ and old-age
pensions in the case of contributors whose
income does not exceed £3OO p.a., leave
being granted to employers to contribute
on behalf of employees who get more than
that or who are over 50 years of age.
Receipt of a pension under the National
Provident Act “does not affect a person’s
claim to the old-age pension under the
Pensions Act,” whereas the Bruce-Page
measure sets forth that “no person shall be
entitled to receive an allowance under this
Act and at the same time to receive a
pension under the Invalid and Old-age
Pensions Act.” There was just on
£2,000,000 in the Maoriland fund at the end
of 1927, and the Government’s subsidy
for that year amounted to £57,850. So there
is no heavy drain on the Treasury for sub-
sidies and administrative salaries, nor do
large bodies of contributors get the sack.
If Bruce-Page must meddle in these
matters, an adaptation of - the Maoriland
system, not to take effect until the electors
have accepted it, might be recommended
for consideration. But in the present situa-
tion of Australia it ought to be obvious
even to Bruce-Page that Governments
should aim at lightening the burdens on
those who give employment instead of add-
ing to them. Industry can’t stand any more
frilly schemes of enforced benevolence. It
can’t stand those which it is expected to
support at present. Take the child-endow-
ment business, which was thrust upon N. S.
Wales by vote-catchers inspired by a law-
yer—and a doctrinaire at that. The
average worker would far rather have a
job without child endowment than child
endowment without a job. Thousands of
honest fellows have learned during one of
the severest winters on record that they
can’t have both.
FRILLS AND A RAILWAY.
A luxurious train has commenced running
to Alice Springs, in the middle of Australia,
a place where there are big hills, and seven
or eight rivers which flow as regularly as
Australian rivers are expected to do, and
30 mountain passes to accommodate them,
and a climate which is said to cure more
diseases than the best patent-medicine
advertisement. The Federal line extends
through some 600 miles of country without
a single running stream before the elevated
region heaves in sight, but beyond Alice
Springs there are half a million square
miles of Federal territory with prospects
and a great Federal port into the bargain.
The Commonwealth owns another rail-
way, stretching west from Port Augusta.
On this track there are 1000 miles without
a running stream, and the finish is at Kal-
goorlie, an elevated inland town where the
gauge changes. From there onward towards
Perth (375 miles) there is a good deal of the
same country, which helps to explain why
Kalgoorlie has its water pumped up from a
reservoir 350 miles nearer the sea. The
Commonwealth has no half-million square
miles of its own to develop on this west-
ern railway, which difference makes the
South-to-North enterprise look much the
more promising of the two as a Federal
investment. It must be much better than
it is when it is brought to completion
and becomes a uniform-gauge railway ex-
tending from sea to sea instead of two
isolated sections as at present. Even as it
stands the financial position has improved
materially. If the complete figures for
1928-29 are no worse than those for 1926-27,
then the unfinished South-to-North enter-
prise will show a loss of £3O less per mile
than the complete and old-established N. S.
Wales system has just done.
Then why not go ahead and finish the
work instead of sinking back into flabby
repose? It is the most promising thing the
Federal authority has on hand, and when
the train begins to run from ocean to
ocean it will be a concrete, eye-arresting
achievement, which will get favorable
mention in outside papers and be a happy
change from the Desert Tragedy, the De-
ficit and the Basher Gang.
The financial position is simple enough.
In 1927 it was resolved to end the dead-
lock, and carry the long-stagnant South-
to-North concern another 297 miles, from
Oodnadatta to Alice Springs, and thus
get beyond the desert at last. A begin-
ning was made with day labor, but after
26 miles or so had been done this was
abandoned. It promised to be a similar case
to that of Richmond-Kurrajong (N.S.W.),
where a considerable working force filled
in about three years in constructing seven
miles of single track in easy country at a
cost of £18,768 per mile. After the 26 miles
had been dawdled over a contract firm
got to work and built the next 271 miles
in less than two years, at a price well
under £3OOO per mile.
Putting the cost of construction and
equipment at £6OOO per mile, which is
above the past average and should suffice
till the investment begins to earn a profit
for itself, some interesting points obtrude
themselves. Bruce’s new Department of
Markets and Migration cost 29 miles of
new railway in 1927-28. His High Commis-
sioner in the United States, who seems only
able to provoke Uncle to increase his tariff
against us, cost over two miles. His De-
velopment and Migration Commission,
which seems rather to have stopped than
developed immigration, and his Bureau of
Scientific and Industrial Research between
them cost 651 miles. His aids to State
roads, which are no affair of his, swallowed
enough to have carried the national enter-
prise, which is most distinctly Bruce’s
affair, another 333 miles nearer its desti-
nation. The money spent on the baby
bonus represented another 113 miles. Leav-
ing out the baby bonus, which Bruce didn’t
originate, five frills which he did originate
wasted over 430 miles of line in a single
year! And that takes no account of a
multitude of sundries.
Australia could have completed its only
real transcontinental railway long ago out
of revenue, and a genuine “developmental”
job, most of it free of interest, could
have been kept from showing an increasing
profit only by an absolute genius for mis-
management. The possibility still remains,
though it isn’t so bright as it was.
AUSTRALIA AND THE WORLD.
In the first six weeks of its existence the
MacDonald Government has discussed the
reduction of Britain’s naval building pro-
gramme, turning Singapore into an unforti-
fied fuelling-station, entering into “a full
examination of questions connected with
Egypt,” and abolishing preferential duties.
Assurances were given that “no decision of
a final nature would be come to until the
House agreed to its ratification.” But as
there is a strong Lab.-Lib. majority in Par-
liament, it is certain that some, if not all,
of these things will be done.
It had to come some day. For genera-
tions our Tories have been trying to drug
the electors with sentimental speeches about
Australia’s devotion to the Empire and the
Empire’s determination never to forsake
Australia. While the U.K. could afford
help these pretty speeches were able to pass
as substitutes for sacrifice. But now the
British are facing very hard times. The
Ministry of Health has issued figures show-
ing that those in receipt of poor relief
in England and Wales had gone from
632,200 in 1913 to 1,314,220 in 1928. No
wonder the £2,240,000 Air Exhibition organ-
ised in London last month was “a ghastly
failure”! The British are weary of even
hearing about armaments, and until they
have completed the heroic act of paying
their debts, they are going to be too poor
to feel otherwise.
Fortunately for them they are in a part
of the world where such weariness is general.
Even the Americans are willing to discuss
naval parity in the spirit of the Kellogg
anti-war pact, and it will be many years
before a Western European Power again
feels the urge to arm for a war of aggres-
sion.
It is the Commonwealth’s bad luck that
its geographical situation debars it from
following suit with any feeling of security.
This country shares its northern waters with
a Power which is anything but armament-
weary. In Russia the Ariokhim, which com-
bines the Friends of Aviation and the
Chemical-defence Society, has a member-
ship of 2,000,000. It supports 19 aero
clubs and 1200 libraries of books on
aerial warfare; and, apart from this
organisation for the inculcation of an
“air sense,” there is the Russian Air
Force of 1500 military ’planes. According
to expert opinion in Europe, Russia aims
to control the air-routes between the
Ukraine (which alone supports 4662 aero-
nautical societies) and Malaya.
Just as our Tories have always endan-
gered Australia by a muddle-headed form
of Britishism, so our Communists are endan-
gering it by a fatuous Russianism. The
idea is that the Russians, contrary to the
whole history of racialism, are workers first
and Russians afterwards; that, if Australia
disarms, the brethren of the Red Flag
will follow suit—a variant of the absurd
Cobdenite theory that if England disarmed
fiscally its edified rivals would become
Freetraders.
The Commonwealth is thus pursuing
cumulatively disastrous policies. It is dis-
arming in a part of the world which laughs
at anti-war pacts, and it is weakening itself
economically by conducting a class-war
which the other civilised white countries
have abandoned as too costly. And all this
at the beginning of what will probably
prove the most critical half-century of its
existence.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
An Officer’s Right of Protest.
Dear Bulletin, — Touching the Australians
at Fromelles, I suspected from “T.T.T.’s”
previous letter (B. 10/7/’29) that he had
not troubled to read Bean’s Volume 111.
Now I am certain of it, since he revives
the familiar story of “the abject inactivity
of the Australians’ right flanking troops.”
This libel, long current amongst most of
the Australians who took part, is totally
disproved by Bean’s narrative.
But it is really as to the right of protest
that I want to say a few words. “T.T.T.”
will find that Lord Cavan, who com-
manded the Guards Division at the Somme,
made a most emphatic protest in November!
1916, against the continuance of the battle!
as is found duly recorded in Bean (page
903) as follows: “The insistence of the
higher commanders on pressing these drew
strong protests from Lord Cavan. He de-
sired to know whether it was deliberately
intended to sacrifice the British right in
order to help the French left. He had
already lost 5300 men in hopeless attempts
upon these trenches.” Lord Cavan was
subsequently promoted to be Chief of the
Imperial General Staff in Britain, and only
retired just before he came to Australia
with the Duke of York because the Army
in peace had no higher appointment to
offer him. Yet if “T.T.T.” is correct he
should have got his S.N.L.R. in 1916.
It was also a Commander of the Guards
Division who declined to attack at
Fromelles some time before the Australians
got the order to do so, because he con-
sidered the position impregnable to a force
of his strength, unless he was given a
written order recording his protest and re-
lieving him from all responsibility for it.
In this case the order to attack was with-
drawn. Apparently the Australians were
substituted.
One of our own brigadiers, on receipt of
an order to attack, adopted the same pro-
cedure. In his case the brigade was with-
drawn from the line, another brigade was
substituted and carried out the attack on
November 5, 1916. This latter brigade
suffered a bloody reverse, and of it Bean
writes (page 910) : “According to a state-
ment by a medical officer, some of the men
sat down and simply wept with fatigue,”
from the mere exertion of reaching the
front line previous to the attack. This
would fully justify the first brigadier in
his attitude.
A platoon commander of experience,
ordered to make an attack with his platoon
alone as a raid, might well, if he deemed
the thing impossible, ask to have his pro-
test recorded. If he is silent, though dis-
approving (as Kitchener and Fisher are
said to have been at the Cabinet meeting
which decided on the Gallipoli Expedition
in deference to Churchill), he will have
difficulty afterwards in escaping a share of
the blame.
But if a battalion is ordered to attack
it would be highly improper for a platoon
commander, however experienced, to pro-
test, since the responsibility is upon not
him but his C.O. Similarly if a brigade
alone is ordered to attack the responsibility
is shifted again to the brigadier. Simi-
larly, in a divisional attack the responsi-
bility is not the brigadier’s.
“T.T.T.” calls upon me to cite chapter
and verse from Army Acts, etc., as my
authority; but the onus lies upon “T.T.T.”
to produce from the authorities a prohibi-
tion of what is otherwise'a reasonable atti-
tude for any officer to adopt who has a
proper realisation of his responsibility for
the' lives of the men under him.
I cannot learn that discipline suffered
either in the Australian or the British Army
as a result of the protests I have men-
tioned.
The whole thing is a matter of common-
sense and reasonableness on the part of
officers concerned. “T.T.T.’s” contention
apparently is that these cannot exist with-
out imperilling discipline. I disagree.
Moreover, if that contention be correct,
you get a justification of the appalling
result of a rigid adherence to orders which
happened in September, 1916, to a fine
British battalion. By some error the
barrage did not materialise, but the splendid
line of men advancing as ordered in broad
daylight at zero hour at 30 paces to the
minute was shot down to a man, and this
blind unreasoning obedience to orders is
under such circumstances at all events de-
finitely forbidden. The remainder of my
contention follows as a necessary corollary
to this salutary rule.—Yours, etc., X.X X.
+
Remarkable Bedfellows.
The loan habit is in the same category
as cocaine and methylated spirits. Ever}'
addict always wants more, and says tha
plenty more is the only remedy for wha
he has had already. All three lead alike
to poverty and unemployment.
As a passing instance a deputation
looked in on N.S.W. Relieving-Premier
Buttonhole with this pathetic and well-
meant narrative: —
“Mr. MacDonald, originator of the Pyr-
mont soup kitchens, put before the alu ,is «t
a scheme by which Government might ru
a loan of £4,000.000—£500,000 to go to the
immediate relief of distress and the
mainder to be used on public worksj.
absorb the unemployed. If the Governmen
spent £10,000,000 to relieve unemployment
business would look up, and prosperity wo
smile on the State. He could show instance*
where people were dying of starvation,
be had seen men collapse -while waiting i
food.”
By next June the Ma State will have spent-
nearly £11,000,000 of loans per annum for
10 years to absorb the unemployed, ana
during the last four years of the penm
the loan spendings have been o\ ei
£12,000,000 per annum. The kmd-beartt* 1
originator of the soup kitchens descnhe


THE MAN WITH THE POTAT O.
“In Sydney the Housewives’ Association, led by Miss Portia Geach, has been organising a boycott of potatoes, and motor-cars have been driven through the streets
calling on the people not to buy the vegetable till the price is reduced The floods reduced the Tasmanian potato harvest by one nail."
the results. Yet, like every other drug
addict, he cries for more. This pathetic
crowd of sufferers are left over despite the
spending of 14jj millions of loan money;
surely the assurance that prosperity would
smile on the State if the expenditure was
raised to 24j millions is a grotesque travesty
on human intelligence.
Practical relief proposals include a very
extensive suppression of imports which take
money out of the country and usurp the
place of local products; the suppression of
foreign loans which also eat up money in
the shape of interest; the suspension of
wage-raising courts which take no notice
of what industry can stand, and joyously
extinguish it by putting on burdens which
it can’t stand; and the expulsion of alien
conspirators who extinguish more industry
than any other agency. If the Church is
favorable to any of these relief proposals it
doesn’t say so.
The Communists strenuously advocate
the repudiation of all external debts on the
plea that the interest saved would alleviate
a wonderful quantity of distress. They
don’t thus get into the same category as
the reverend organiser of the Pyrmont
soup kitchens; yet if the loan schemes
of the reverend gentleman could be carried
out, the payment of interest abroad would
stop automatically, and that would be a
step to definite repudiation. The two lines
of thought are thus a great deal closer than
the reverend and kind-hearted people who
run soup kitchens are aware of. If the
latter don’t approve of repudiation, the
repudiationists certainly approve of their
friends’ programme of vast borrowings to
relieve distress. When the money is spent
it leaves no permanent reproductive indus-
try behind; it leaves instead the same
old workless mob, or a larger one, out of
a job again, and with more debt burdens to
carry. And every such increase of burden
and distress gains more listeners to the
tale that repudiation is the way.
No one ever heard a Redflagger object to
relief loans, however large. On that matter
he is prepared to regard an archbishop as
a brother, though his Gaiters might grieve
to know it.
So Australians Can Write Novels!
Two very heartening things have wreathed
this office with smiles during the past fort-
night. No sooner had The Bulletin
printed the last chapter of “The Quarter-
master” than a great flight of letters landed
on the premises. This is a typical one:—
“Allow me to congratulate The Bulletin
on finding ‘The Quartermaster.’ I have
read through it with increasing interest,
with admiration of the splendid old Quarter-
master and with delight that Sydney has
produced so great a story.”
This, from a critic of high culture, is an
endorsement of what the cables tell us
Arnold Bennett has written in England re-
garding “A House Is Built,” as the story
is called in its book form: Bennett regards
it as “an epic.”
Quite as gratifying is another chorus of
praise. “Coonardoo,” which some hundreds
of correspondents reviled The Bulletin
for even printing, has been hailed in Europe
as a masterpiece: Gerald Gould, in the
Observer, tells Australia that it should be
proud to be the birthplace of such a piece
of literature. The Bulletin never had
any doubt about the splendid quality of
Katharine Prichard's story: it is a satis-
faction to have the judges’ verdict and its
own opinion so enthusiastically endorsed in
London.
And it has no doubt at "all that when
other of the stories which The Bulletin
has selected are put between covers in
London and America—the current “Paradise
Plumes,” for example—almost as warm a
welcome will await them. Somehow or
other we had got it into our heads that
Australians couldn’t write novels—couldn’t
“stay the distance” where the long story
is concerned. The Bulletin’s first com-
petition has shattered that notion; the
next will, it is hoped, completely destroy it.
♦
Why Arbitration Fails.
“P.A.” replies to “Old Unionist”:—
“Old Unionist’s” special pleading for
arbitration shirks the whole question of that
system’s failure by assuming that compulsory
arbitration is actually in existence. That
arbitration has been compulsory on one
party to a dispute is quite true, but it is
not and never has been compulsory on the
other party. Years ago N.S.W. Labor Min-
ister Estell laid a return on the table of
the Assembly showing that of employees who
(through their unions) had been fined for
offences under the Arbitration Act not one
had paid a penny! A system under which
this was possible isn’t worthy even of a
casual apology.
When a man defends the present so-
called arbitration game he is not champion-
ing compulsory arbitration (which doesn’t
exist), but is battling for a system under
which arbitration is maintained for the
convenience of the unions when strikes
don’t suit them better. The recent great
industrial disputes are plain and undisguised
defiances of arbitration, which was only
accepted when all its decisions were against
the employing class.
Just so long as these courts or boards
base their decisions not on a man’s earning
or productive power but on the cost of living
—which may mean plain bread and butter or
terrapin and champagne with silk attire
and unlimited “pickshers”—just so long will
the thing be a curse to industry, even if
the unionists would loyally accept its un-
favorable decisions.
But perhaps the greatest mischief
wrought by arbitration lies in the fact that
it has created a series of close corporations
of unionists who enjoy all kinds of special
privileges at the expense of the various
industries, and—what is worse —at the
expense of their unemployed brethren. Some
of these bodies are just as veritable ex-
ploiters as the unscrupulous financiers whom
“Old Unionist” trounces. Here in Queens-
land the rate for sugarworkers (No. 1 dis-
trict) was fixed, when sugar was £3O 6s. Bd.
a ton, at 17s. To-day, when sugar has
dropped to £2u 18s. per ton, the rate (with
allowance for the 44-hour week) pans out
at 19s. —a lovely specimen of arbitration
justice.
More Soldier-settlement in Danger.
It looks as if the Federal Government’s
effort to establish returned soldiers on the
expropriated German plantations in Man-
dated New Guinea is going the disastrous
way of the soldier-settlement schemes in
Australia. The plantations were sold on
a basis of copra at £25 a ton London.
Since then the price has dropped to £l9,
though at the moment there is a small
recovery. The N. G. Planters and
Traders’ Association, whose interests inter-
mingle with those of the returned-soldier
planters, recently deputed one of its mem-
bers to interview the Federal authorities.
His job was to suggest that, in view of the
serious situation, a moratorium of two years
be granted, or that there might be a tem-
porary suspension of purchase terms until
copra rose to a more profitable figure.
The Federal Government declined the re-
quest.
The terms on which the returned soldiers
took up the properties demanded a 5 p.c.
deposit on the tender, a further 10 p.c. on
acceptance, the balance in 80 equal quarterly
instalments. Once the process of forfeiture
begins the duty on copra exports will fall,
and the revenue of Mandated New Guinea
will suffer accordingly.
Most, if not all, of the soldier planters are
financed by private firms. These have, as
security, a second lien, the Commonwealth
coming first under the purchase agreement.
No private firm under the regulations at
present in force can hold interests * in ex-
propriated plantations exceeding a total
of £250,000. This limit has already been
reached by the leading firms interested
in New Guinea. So the Federal Govern-
ment appears to be faced with two alterna-
tives—either to grant a moratorium (which
it has thus far declined) or to relax the
rule as to the maximum interests permitted
private firms.
♦
These Kids Have No Votes.
“Padraic”: The secretary of the Parents
and Citizens’ Association in one of the
oldest towns on the Darling River tells
this talc. The local school recently under-
went repairs, and in departing the Public
Works officer explained that the stoves to
heat the building had not arrived but would
be installed in a few w'eeks. As they hadn’t
arrived in four months the local branch
of the'Works Department was written to.
Still nothing was done, and the pedagogue
reported the matter to his own department
—with the same result.
The P. and C. Association then got busy,
and after another long lapse a couple
of stoves arrived—but no flues! The Works
Department was again appealed to, and
someone across a telephone dreamily
remarked that* they’d be sent and every-
thing would be “orright.” . However,
departmental slumber again set in, and
meanwhile the children, many of them
poorly clad and ill-fed—for these are hard
times in the West—troop each morning into
icy rooms and cough and snuffle the morn-
ing away, longing to get out into the
sunshine, which, fortunately, is not sup-
plied by a works department.
On the last morning I visited the school
the thermometer there had been down
to 28deg., and the chilliest of the mites
were taking it in turns to get the frost out
of their bones at the fire in the school-
master’s residence.
♦
Flattering the Fellah.
The proposal of the MacDonald Govern-
ment to return to the Egyptians a fuller
measure of that independence they so
frightfully abused a few years ago is fraught
with dangerous possibilities. The pro-
posed new treaty as forecasted by the
British Minister for War provides, among
other things, for the cancellation of the
Capitulations, those three-centuries-old safe-
guards for foreign residents which Egypt
inherited from Turkey. The most important
section of the Capitulations secures to Euro-
pean nationals the right to be tried for
criminal offences in their own Consular
courts and according to the laws of their
own countries, thus guarding them from
exposure to the eccentricities of Egyptian
justice.
America and 12 European nations enjoy
the benefit of the Capitulations; and even
should Britain agree to their withdrawal,
it is certain that several of the other
Powers, and especially the unloved Greeks,
will refuse to follow suit, and Britain has
no authority to bind them. Any attempt
by the Egyptians towards a general can-
cellation will be met with protest and re-
sisted by force. Even Greece is capable
of effective action. And Italy, with a long-
ing eye on Egypt of late years, may take
steps which by no means friendly France
is certain to resent, and in that case Armar
geddon may begin all over again.
All this, of course, supposing that the
section of idealists and fanatics which seems
to be strongly influencing the MacDonald
Administration sees its plans come to fru-
ition Avith the ratification of the proposed
treaty.
4
Something Mr. Bruce Didn’t Think Of.
“Buttenderry” : The spending of hard-
borrowed millions a year on unnecessary
speedways is having a far-reaching effect
on the economic and political life of the
country districts through which they pass.
M!y own district, like a good many others
which largely depend on timber and
small-scale mixed farming, is a poor one,
and had been hard up always. Then came
the road, and with it a marked improve-
ment in the finances of many families.
Most of the labor for this section was sup-
plied locally—the practice which prevails
throughout the country—and Dave and
Tom and Bill, accustomed from early child-
hood to grafting anything from 50 to 70
hours a week for irregular and often meagre
returns, found themselves Avorking around
40 hours a week for a decent screw. And
more poAver to them! No men better
deserved a good job; few needed it more,
and none were better fitted for any descrip-
tion of hard toil.
But every man Avho thus secures a job
is forced to join a union, no matter what
his political leanings may be. The result
of this damfoolishness, unionism being Avhat
it is to-day, was inevitable. Dave and his
mates are becoming “class-conscious,”, and
giving ear to a lot of poisonous doctrines.
From resourceful, hard-working, political
free-thinkers, strongly biased in favor of
piecework and payment by results, they are
becoming mere units in the great army of
unskilled laborers—already far too large in
its relation to population—rigidly stan-
dardised as to the amount of work they do
and their future political allegiance.


WMpMWM>
,/
mmWm
:
WmMmm
OIL
SPIRIT
POLITICAL
POINTS
The hurried calling of a special meeting of
the Loan Council is taken to mean that
thing has gone wrong with the Cadging Appa-
ratus. At the last regular meeting of the
Cadge the year’s prospective borrowings,
State and Federal, were cut down from 45 to
30 millions. In the present condition of the
balance of trade a lot of this must be foreign
money to pay interest with. If neither Lon-
don nor New York wants to see Australia
hanging suspiciously about the money market
just now, even for a comparatively small
sum, there certainly is a difficulty.
Some Vic. municipal councils are notorious
for sending abroad for plant that can be
supplied in Australia. By way of discourage-
ment, the McPhersons have inserted a clause
in the Local Government Bill giving the
Works Minister a right of veto where the
order for imported goods exceeds £250. If
the thing goes through they will have one
good entry on the credit side of the ledger.
Laird Smith.
The news papers
have rediscovered W.
11. Laird Smith. That
faithful follower of
Hughes is chairman of
the Tas. Potato Mar-
keting Board, in which
capacity he has ad-
ministered a well-de-
served rebuke to the
Sydney ladies who
tried to work up a
boycott because spuds
from the flood-stricken
districts are dear. In
the days of his glory
Laird Smith was Min-
ister for the Navy.
H’e lost his seat
(Denison) in 1922
and has never stood-
again.
T. W. White suc-
ceeds Watt as M.11.R.
for Balaclava ; lie beat
Francis, sometime
member for Henty, by
28,000 to 15,770.
White ought to do well
at Canberra, but it is
a pity he considers it
necessary to defend
pre-selection, the rottenness of which ought
to be evident to a son-in-law of Alfred
Deakin.
The mid-week racing curse is getting some
attention from Governments in two States.
McPherson’s lias cut down the list of Mel-
bourne pony and trotting fixtures which
the Labor concern obligingly increased.
Moore’s has asked a Royal Commission to
collect the facts about proprietary and un-
registered racing and to make suggestions
for improvement. The Royal-Commission
device is weak. Moore ought to take his
courage in both hands, and wipe out unregis-
tered racing altogether, and restrict the regis-
tered variety—in Brisbane at least—to Satur-
days and public holidays. Westralia did this
years ago, and Westralia is all the better
for it.
H. Sutherland, an official of the Engine-
drivers and Firemen, has infuriated the
“Bondy” Hoares of the Miners’ Federation
and the Communists of the Sydney Trades
and Labor Council by suggesting that the
northern coalminers should arrange a com-
promise with the mineowners, passive re-
sistance being a failure which is “economi-
cally slaughtering the community.” There
have been the usual demands for the brave
fellow’s head, but his union is sticking - to
him and four-fifths of the miners hope that
his views will prevail. It is refreshing to
find even one union leader protesting against
the policy which condemns Australians to eat
the bitter bread of charity when honest work
at good wages is waiting for them.
There has been a
rumpus over the selec-
tion of a Labor candi-
date for a South Aus.
Leg. Council vacancy
caused by the death
of Lahorite J. Carr,
and S. R. Whitford,
sometime M.L.A. and
A d e 1 a ide councillor,
has nominated against
D. D. Bardolph, who
was declared to
have won the bal-
lot, Senator O’Hal-
loran being returning-
officer. “Irregularities”
are alleged—the same
o 1 d “irregularities.”
The A.W.U. is siding
with Whitford, and
M. J. Murphy, its S.
Aus. president, is
chairman of his elec-
tion committee. Peace-
makers are at work,
for with a general
'■lection due in a few
months a party split
would be a serious
matter.
S.R. Whitford.
Tas. Labor shrugs its shoulders when it
reads about squalid selection-ballot barneys
in other States. It abolished selection bal-
lots years ago. With preference voting there
is no need or excuse for limiting the num-
ber of candidates; the more the merrier.
Dr. Fred Watson’s petition urging the
impeachment of the Prime Minister and the
Attorney-General “for having knowingly con-
ducted an illegal Government in the Terri-
tory” has been rejected by the Governor-
General “on the advice of his Ministers.” It
is an interesting exposition of the weakness
of constitutional government. The doctor
took action on the advice of two very high
constitutional authorities. But just as kings
were their own judges in a former age, so
Governments are above the law on many
issues to-day. Society has set up a Sanhe-
drim of despots instead of a single despot.
It is sometimes harder to depose a Govern-
ment than it was to get a king executed.
By threatening another increase, the Met-
ropolitan Gas Co. has brought itself into
the limelight again in Melbourne. There
have been the familiar protests, and pro-
bably the Ministry will have the usual in-
quiry made. Legislation will be promised,
but not passed* The co. will then add sd.
per thousand cubic feet, and bring the rate
up to 7s. 6d. It always wins as against
Governments, gas conferences, royal com-
missions, select committees, auditors-general,
Treasury accountancy officer's and the
thunder of the dailies.
N. S. Wales invented a Fair Rents law
by which a man can get a house on lease
and then go straightway to a Fair Rents
Court and secure a reduction of rent. Miss
Portia Geach, who has been discontented
with the price of potatoes, has been trying
to get it reduced by organising a boycott.
Obviously what she should do is to fight for
a Fair Potato Court.
The present Federal Parliament is barely
six months old, yet “an early appeal to the
country” begins to be mentioned. Minister
Abbott flew a wobbly kite in Sydney at the
annual meeting of the Commercial Travel-
lers :
The time has come when we have to consider that
something should be done to cut down our overhead
costs, and if we have to consider what is sometimes
called the bogey of centralisation, then we will have
to face it. We federated for that purpose, and the
time will come when we will have to combine as
one body.
If Bruce and Page plunge into a unification
campaign now they will deserve all they
will get. This is no time to leave business
and start a continent-wide chattering expedi-
tion.
The Australian Labor gentlemen who set
out to attend the Pan-Pacific Red Confer-
ence have had no luck. The Japanese Gov-
ernment refused them permission to land, so
they could not get to their objective via
Tsuruga, the only port which has a regular
service to Vladivostock. At Shanghai they
found themselves up against the Chinese
Nationalists’ reluctance to let revolution-
preaching demagogues loose in their troubled
land. So if they stir out of the reach of
British protection they will probably find
themselves under arrest.
The extent to which Maoriland has put
the soft pedal on the importation of popula-
tion since unemployment became a worry is
disclosed in an official return. For the
seven years 1920 to 1920 the average sur-
plus of arrivals over departures was 10,270.
For 1927 the figure was 2428: last year it
was 443. Foreigners aren’t encouraged. In
1925, out of 0339 immigrants intending per-
manent residence only 310 came from out-
side the Empire.
The big metal firm of Hadfield’s, at Alex-
andria (Sydney),, has been served with
notice, backed by no law and no award of
State or Federal Arbitration Court, that
working hours must be reduced to 40 per
week —for the purpose apparently of making
it more difficult for the firm to compete with
the foreigner. It isn’t even alleged that the
employees will be better or happier with 128
non-working hours per week than with 124.
And it is certain that, if the works or
part of them are shut down, women
and children will be a great deal
worse off. Alexandria, by the way, was one
of five suburbs represented by a recent
relief-begging deputation, a member of which
asserted that “people were dying of starva-
tion,” and that he “had seen men collapse
while waiting for food.” The deputation
wanted £4,000,000 out of the dead-broke
Treasury.
According to S. M. Herald, “the Common-
wealth has set an example to the States
by reducing its proposed loan expenditure,
even at the sacrifice of a number of develop-
mental works.” The assumption is that the
country has no money, save loan money, to
do anything with. There are plenty of things
to be very much “reduced,” including the
Commissioner in the U.S.A., the baby bonus,
the grant to the States for Speedways
(£2,000.000 p.a.), the Development and
Migration foolishness, and the Markets and
Migration superfluity. These develop little
or nothing except official dignity. It is pos-
sible that Bruce is the reincarnation of
Louis XVI., another well-meaning man who
inherited a financial and political crisis and
had no idea what to do with it.
Fine examples of the working of N.S.W.
family endowment pour in on The Bul-
letin. From one town comes a long list
duly certified. One couple received £l6O in
a lump, another £9O, several between £6O
and £7O. One man gave the dear children
a good time by taking a trip to Tasmania
himself; another bought bicycles for the
boys; a third went away to Victoria; one
keeps the pub busy for two days after every
payment, and then, while recovering, belts
the infants. Another man formerly earned
£lO a week; since the arrival of dear old
Piddo’s little blessing he has been content
with £4 —the endowment provides what more
he wants. That man used to be an indus-
trious citizen; he is now a demoralised
loafer, and his youngsters are being brought
up any old how. One Minister says that
the Government will shift the burden from
industry on to the shoulders of those best
able to bear it. It had far better bury the
disgraceful thing.
Perth has been stirred to the depths by
a fearful crime com-
mitted on a young
girl by two beasts
in a car, presumed to
have been stolen. At
an inquiry in the
Children’s Court,
Arthur Lovekin, tin 1
magistrate, asked the
doctor in attendance
whether he had taken
steps to prevent the
girl becoming a
mother or contract-
ing v.d.; and the reply
was that he hadn’t.
Lovekin, who used to
own the Daily News,
is an M.L.C., and the
chances are that he
will ask the Legisla-
ture to compel the
medical profession to
do what he believes
should be done in rape
cases. It is recalled
that the French legal-
ised abortion in- the
case of women out-
raged by Germans
during the invasion.
Arthur Lovekin.
The Manchurian dispute has not resulted
in a war between China and Russia, but it
has produced a revival of the civil conflict
between the Whites and Reds. The White
Russians under Semenoff were a thorn in
the side of the Soviet for a long time, but
for a couple of years past they have been
scattered, many of them earning a crust as
mercenaries and doorguards to wealthy
Chinamen afraid of being kidnapped. If it
is true, as reported, that 20,000 fully-
equipped White Russians are concentrated in
the Amur region there is a chance of the
Reds losing Eastern Siberia and its only ice-
free port.
The Lloyd Georgians went to the country
with three main planks, apart from the cure
for unemployment which each party featured.
They were liquor reform, electoral reform and
defence retrenchment, and they are the first
important measures that will be taken in
hand by the Ramsay Macs. It will be well
for Australians to realise that this control
of the Government by the smallest party in
the House is not likely to be transient. With
a fairer system of voting the third party,
which scored over five million votes, should
come back in considerable strength next time.
J. B. Peden, the new professorial presi-
dent of the N.S.W. Leg. Council, will have
Prof Peden.
his hands full during
the coming session,
what with Labor plans
for fighting measures
affecting “Labor prin-
ciples” and a cave
to resist Upper House
reform. Government
supporters, for their
part, may try to expel
Oulbert, one of the
leaders of the lawless
timber strike. Culbert
certainly deserves ex-
pulsion—his offence is
far worse than that
which cost Hugh
Mahon his seat in .the
Gommonwealth Parlia-
ment in 1920. No
nomi n e e legislator
appointed by the
King’s representative
on the advice of Min-
isters of the Crown
should be suffered to
set an example of bois-
terous contempt for the
laws.
The latest spot where the übiquitous
Chinese is beginning to arrive in, large num-
bers is French Equatorial Africa. This is
the second African experiment of the kind;
the previous one was staged by Britain in
South Africa, and ended disastrously for the
producers. France will perhaps go through
the same experience.
The path of industrial arbitration has
always run between devils and deep seas.
If the arbitrators arrange wages and con-
ditions regardless of ability to stand the
racket they may wreck the industry; if they
base their awards on profits they may set the
main so low as to precipitate a strike, or so
high as to produce insolvency. In the latter
case, moreover, the necessary information
has to be secretly conveyed by the employers
to the arbitrators. The experience of the
N.S.W. Bavin Government in the coal dis-
pute and of the Federal Arbitration Court in
the timber rumpus is that this lightens the
task of work-stoppers and settles nothing.
N.S.W. Minister Lee, greeted by a depu-
tation at Bombala which wanted bricks
without straw, said it isn’t so much a ques-
tion now of making new railways as of
avoiding the closure of some of the old ones.
It is possible that the position would im-
prove in some cases if an effort was made
to carry a line to a good and handy but
almost unused port, instead of leaving it at
a loose end like a lost cow in the wilderness,
but that would be unorthodox, and the un-
orthodox is feared by Governments like Lee’s.
By way of getting better service
out of our Parliamentarians, it would be
a good idea to pay them by the hour’s work,
debates oil the Address-in-Reply and on cen-
sure motions not to count as work. Then
far fewer bills would be thrown overboard
at the close of the session, and Canberra
would look less a deserted city than it does.
It would be a case of “No Freeze, No Pay.”
Sydney got soaked last week and good
showers also visited half of N. S. Wales;
but there were none where they were most
needed, and S. Australia and the Victorian
Mallec. are also still looking forward to a
very pinched harvest. The wheat-farmer has
only one season a year, and if it fails he
gets no return for 12 months. The manufac-
turer has one season a week, culminating on
pay-day; if it fails, the operative at most
loses a week’s pay, not a year’s. And if be
finds a new job he can sow again on Monday.
“Sol Malaprop” : It is impossible to remem-
ber how many professors Bruce has appointed
at different times to poke the long nose of
inquiry into industrial problems. A recent
gathering of two university schoolmasters, an
ex-ditto, a sharebroker and a Government
official spread itself at cruel length on the
tariff. The purpose it steadily kept in view
was to decide theoretically what is the small-
est amount of Protection that the nation
can do with. lam willing to serve, without
fee or reward, on a committee to decide what
is the smallest amount that a professor can
do with. I don’t see why he should get any
more, as a surplus raises the cost of existence
to the consumer. If some learned person
chanced to die in the course of the proceed-
ings a pundit is more easily replaced than
an industry.
[For matter which has to be signed, S. H. Prior,
J. E. Webb and James Edmond, all of 214 George-
street North, Sydney, share the blame.]
UNPALATABLE TOPICS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The -Soviet representative, M. Dogvalesky, broke
oft conversations for the resumption of diplomatic
relations with Britain because the Labor Foreign
Secretary insisted on a preliminary discussion on
debts, propaganda and other contentious matters.”
Said Muscovite Ivan to Bull:
“I yearn to be friends with your realm;
My heart is of fellowship full
Now Labor is back at the helm.
Let’s end this estrangement and show
That each can forgive and forget.
Let Arcos from memory go
Along with Zinovieff and co.
And that five hundred millions of debt.”
Said Spoofski: “If hand may clasp hand
And amity’s ties be renewed,
Small matters like these, understand,
By both should be strictly tabooed.
We must wipe the whole past from the slate;
Spilt milk it were vain to regret.
Rapprochement we gladly await,
But you’re only postponing the date
By tactless allusions to debt.”
Said Bolshie: “With all of mankind
We fain would in brotherhood dwell.
To put it succinctly, we find
Persistent cold shoulder is hell.
We’ll fix, when we once have conferred,
A modus vivendi, I’ll bet.
But please to remember, old bird,
I’m off if you utter a word
About propaganda or debt.”
N.S.W.
IFORD.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Digger O’B.”: “Anzac” is quite fight
when he assigns to a naval officer known as
“Smiling Mac” the honor of being the last
man to leave Gallipoli (B. 17/7/’29). Most
Diggers knew of Mac, who was a daily visi
tor to our front lines. I was on the de-
stroyer, like “Anzac,” when General John-
ston relieved Mac of his machine-gun curio
on our way to Mudros, and it was the only
time I saw him lose his smile. His name
was either Mackie or Mackay.
* * * :|:
“Muted Music”: In an Adelaide court last
week, on the question of an unsatisfied judg-
ment summons, a decrepit debtor was asked
to give full details of his total source of in-
come. “Well, your Worship,” he quavered,
“I’m getting rations, and the bloke next door
pays me five bob a week not to play my
cornet.”
* * * *
“Central Blue” : Claimed for Ramsay Mac-
Donald by an English paper that he recently
“made history” by being the first British
Prime Minister to entrust himself to the air.
Which suggests that Old Country statesmen
have been slow to avail themselves of the
most up-to-date method of travel, even when
due allowance is made for the limited dis-
tances they need to go. Bruce, of course,
has often flown on electioneering and other
departmental work, and doubtless many other
heads of Australian Governments have done
the same. W. A. Holman was about ttm
ANOTHER CURRENCY LASS.
“Flo has a way of getting the things she wants.”
“Yes, she cries for them, and her fool husband cheques her tears.”
first. It was at the N.S.W. general election
of 1920 that he made use of an aeroplane
to place his political views before his Coota-
mtindra constituents. But even that didn’t
avert the catastrophe that was to sweep him
from political life.
* * * *
“Wakatu”: To be kidnapped by Maoris
when a girl of eight, and to be discovered
more than 60 years later as the wife of a
Maori, has been the lot of Caroline Perrett,
now Mrs. Ngoungou. In 1864 Maori and
pakeha came to blows at Sentry Hill in
Taranaki, the Maori Hau Hau prophet
being killed with many of his followers and
buried in the neighborhood. Later, one Wil-
liam Perrett successfully tendered for the
clearing of the burial grounds, preparatory
to the construction of the railway. This
desecration of graves, as the Maoris regarded
it, incited them to seek revenge by kidnap-
ping the contractor’s eight-year-old daughter.
All attempts to trace the child were futile,
the natives moving the girl from camp to
camp. There were vague reports that the
girl had been seen carrying gum in the
Whangarei gumfields, and that later she was
married to a chief. Ponv since given up for
dead, she has now been identified as the
wife of a Maori farmer living near Wliaka-
tane. Strange to say, the woman has been
living in the district for 30 years. Her
bitter youthful experiences had dulled her
memory.
ij: H* %
“Avon”: One of! the funniest of the M.L.
earthquake yarns comes from Christchurch.
A retired grazier, who has taken up the
collection of old china and glass as a hobby
in his declining years, had acquired the day
before the big ’quake a couple of beautiful
Venetian vases—the very pride and crown
of his collection. When the first shock came
he was in his bath. His first thought was for
his cherished vases, and he tore through
rooms whose walls were swaying and
cracking, seized his treasures one in each
hand, and rushed out into the street wearing
not a stitch. Luckily Mr. Overtheway
spotted him and sped forth with an over-
coat, and it was not till his nakedness was
covered that the connoisseur realised what
had happened.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Some interesting correspond-
ence recently passed between a small re-
ligious sect in Melbourne and a well-known
medico anent a deceased patient. The sect
had been left all but a fraction of the
wealth of the dead man and the doctor sub-
mitted his account to the church authorities.
They pointed out that he should have claimed
his fees before his patient died. The saw-
bones replied that, not being gifted with
prophetic powers, he could not tell whether
or when the patient would die. Seeing the
justice of this, reasoning the ecclesiastics
thoughtfully suggested that the doctor send
his bill in to a brother of the defunct, who
was the only other beneficiary under the
will. The creditor thereupon waived his
right to claim on the church’s portion of
the bequest, but regretted his action after-
wards. On looking up the brother’s address
he found he was a fellow member of the
profession—and medical etiquette does not
allow of one doctor claiming on another.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: A young couple recently
appeared before the Divorce Court in Sydney
to make the discovery that it is easier to
get married when you are under age than to
get divorced. The pair, although they entered
the holy state of matrimony three years
ago, are still infants in the eyes of. the
Law. For another year, ’Sonah decided,
neither of them will be able to press his or
her side of the argument, unless they can
bring to light guardians (seemingly mis-
laid) to fight the issues on their behalf.
;’£ * * *
“Dick the Fossicker”: Intending to give
a performance that night, a theatrical troupe
arrived in a W.A. mining town at 5 p.m.
There was no barber in the place, and the
shaving tackle of the party had gone astray.
A wag, however, mentioned that there was
an old chap there who “did a bit of shaving
now and then —pretty good hand at it, too;
never heard a single one of his clients com-
plain.” He led two of the actors to a car-
penter’s workshop, where Chips expressed
himself willing to tackle the job. He took
his clients into a small back room and in-
duced one to “lie down on this bench with
yer ’ead on this piller.” The shave was
quite satisfactory, and the other laddie was
attended to. “Funny sort of barber’s chair,”
the second commented as he dried his face.
“Yairs,” agreed the barber. “Y’see, I’m the
undertaker ’ere, ’n’ I learnt ’ow ter shave
by takin’ the-whiskers orf the corpses.”
* * * t-
“Oxmead” : Whenever the Prince of Wales
has a birthday—he was 35 last month —you
will find English papers gloomily discussing
his confirmed celibacy and dissecting records
to find how long it is since an lieir-apparent
of that age was a bachelor. Most of liis
near predecessors have married comparatively
early. George V. was 28 when he acquired
a bride, and Edward VII. was but 21. Queen
Victoria was three months off 21 when she
married the Prince Consort. William IV.,
it is true, didn’t marry officially till lie was
52. but lie was partner in a morganatic
union with a large brood of children long
before that, and, anyway, William was never
more than an heir-presumptive. All the
Georges married bright and early, the third
of them being only 22. Statesmen saw to
it in those days that the heir to the throne
was equipped with a wife as soon as pos-
sible, and royalty was rarely reluctant to be,
fitted, much less misogamistic.
* * * *
“Fernie”: In the Matakitaki Valley, near
Murchison (M.L.), where the recent earth-
quake opened great fissures in the roadways,
a motorist, picking his way precariously along
the highway during the first shocks, noticed
a man lying flat on the ground at the side
of the road. Fearing the worst, he
stopped his car and went to investi-
gate. The man’s eyes were shut,
and his collar and tie had been
removed. The motorist felt for the
pulse of the prone one, who sud-
denly sat up. “It’s all right,” lie
said. "I'm subject to these little
heart attacks. I felt
a bit funny a little
while ago un-
steady on my feet,
you know —so I
did what my doctor
told me to —lie flat
and loosen my col-
lar and tie.” In-
for m e d that a
record big earth-
quake had been
the cause of his
discomfiture, the
affected one be-
came quite cheer-
ful.
A MATTER OF FORM.
“Auntie, when people faint do they go flat?”
“Whatever put that idea into your head?”
“Well, this book says ‘She fainted away, but soon came round again.'"
“Fourwalls” : “Adelaide” asks if there is a
precedent for a woman barrister defending
one of her sex (B. 24/7/’29). Joan Rosanove,
of Melbourne, has been defending women for
years. Mrs. Rosanove, a daughter of Mark
Lazarus, the well-known Jewish solicitor,
was a prominent figure in the sensational
Erica murder case, defending the accused,
a woman.
# # *
“C.Q.”: South Melbourne justices were
called upon the other day to decide the
ownership of a bicycle, which had been made
up out of three stolen machines. One
claimant identified the frame, and another
the front wheel without the tyre. Solomon,
J.P., ordered the exhibit to be divided
accordingly; and the saddle and tyres, which
nobody claimed, were handed to the police.
* * *
“Shep”: The role of army doc. was often
a varied one in the villages of our billets,
when every available French
medico was in other quarters
patching up his wounded
countrymen. Elderly, bent-
up peasants paraded their
ages-oid rheumatics in the
hopes of a diagnosis and
possible remedy at the army’s
expense, and there were
other cases where it was im-
possible to refuse a visit. I
remember one hard toiler,
dragged out of bed before
dawn, to visit a “beau coup
malade” madame. Grabbing
a field-service haversack
loaded with pills to offset
anything from headaches
downwards, he plodded along
on the run behind his guide,
to find at his destination
that the equipment wanted
didn’t get mention in Army
Medical panniers. But some-
times there were compensa-
tions for attending French
civilians. A youthful medico
of my acquaintance received
an urgent request to come
and prescribe for the mad-
emoiselle of the village
chateau. Throughout the
days of her slight sickness
and long-drawn-out convales-
cence she was his sole charge,
and he left his quarters in
the barrack-line room over a
noisy estaminet to be treated
as one of the family at the ancient Flemish
home.
* * * *
“The Galah”: It happened in a Mallee
township. Violet, a well-known local char-
acter, was before the court on a drunk and
disorderly charge. The P.M. said a pound.
The little lady asked for time to pay, but
struck a snag in old Poll, the local J.P.,
who wanted cash down. He was finally over-
ruled by the P.M. and Violet was given a
week to find the necessary. Later, at the pub,
old Poll explained and justified his atti-
tude. “I tried all ways to shake him, but
I couldn’t tell the old fool I. had lent her
a quid to pay her fine with this very morn-
ing. Now she’ll have a jag at my expense.”
She did.
# * * *
“The Passerby”: Whatever may be the
merits of the Child Endowment system,
King Billy’s compatriots are united in their
acclamation of it. And with reason, for one
dark gentleman of leisure on the N.S.W.
North Coast collected £92 in “back money
in a lump sum a short time ago—-a grateful
country’s reward for the production of ten
sturdy little Bingliis. The abo. in “endow-
ment country” sometimes consents now to
catch a fish'or two, but only for a change
in diet. His premium on his family keeps
him in undreamt-of luxury. Under this
potent stimulus, the mass production ot little
darkies is proceeding rapidly.
:J: He * *
“Equs”: Speaking of deserted goldfields,
Beechworth (Vic.), where the first member
of Parliament for the Ovens province had his
horse shod with gold, has suffered more
changes than most.
The once famous Wool-
shed diggings are no
more. The creek has
been gravel - pumped
and dredged from eud
to end, and at present
there is only one fos-
sicker in the whole
length of it, a China-
man, who is credited
with being close on
100 years of age. The
hills around are de-
voted to sheep farming.
“AdeL.”: I wonder wliat is the highest
altitude at which a white child has ever
been born? My entry arrived at 14,500 ft.
above sea-level in one of the passes in the
Andes, during a record snowfall. No medical
assistance was available, the mother died from
the intense cold in her weakened state, but
the infant lived. This occurred a good
many years ago when the Pampas were a
wilderness, inhabited only by roving Indians,
but to-day this child, now an old man, is
still strong and hale. He has lived most of
his life in the tropics, and he still shivers
when he recalls his snow cradle.
* * * *
“Booraby”: Old Jack, the carrier, re-
sented the elaborate precautions that the
publican had taken to ensure that a 20gal.
keg of brandy, consigned to a squatter,
would be delivered without deterioration in
quality or diminution in quantity. He was
told that the keg had been weighed and a
sample of the spirit posted to Mr. Jumbuk,
who was a suspicious and particular person.
Jack was sore about it; he regarded it as a
scurrilous reflection on the probity of the
carrying profession. So he drew off a
couple of bottles for a tonic to his outraged
feelings and as a rejoinder to the insinuation
that his inventiveness was unequal to such
simple ideas; then he dropped in an equal
weight of lead through the bunghole. Conse-
quently, when weighed and tested at the
station, the keg was passed as correct. The
trick wasn’t discovered till a considerable
time afterwards, when the keg was emptied,
and by that time old Jack was thinking out
schemes on another track.
* * * *
“Chancery Lane”: In Melbourne’s Crimi-
nal Court on a recent Friday, a juryman
asked the presiding Judge to excuse him
from service on the Saturday, as it was his
busy day, offering to serve on Monday and
Tuesday in return for the concession. ’Sonah
obligingly assented, and the juror was profuse
in his thanks. Grins were restrained until
the door had closed behind him; then they
appeared on a score of faces. The Criminal
Court does not sit on Saturdays.
* * * *
“Coot”: The “wrecker” who recently
undertook to remove the front wall of Cole’s
Book Arcade, Melbourne, found himself
up against an unexpectedly stiff pro-
position. The wall turned out to be com-
posed of cast-iron. This portion of the
famous Arcade was made in Britain, in
sections, nearly SO years ago. For the side
walls very thick corrugated sheets of old
Scotch iron were supplied.
* * *
“Erua”: There is one Sydney girl who
smiles reminiscently when the man-woman
problem is touched on. Some time ago she
received an unexpected legacy, and, with a
younger sister, decided on a world tour. In
America the price of everything appalled the
young Australians, so they decided to pur-
chase a motor-cycle and side-car and do the
States as cheaply as possible. The elder girl,
a particularly well-grown and athletic-looking
young woman, after one unpleasant experi-
ence decided to don masculine attire, and
pass herself off as a youth with a sister in tow.
Later, for reasons of economy, she introduced
herself as the “husband” of her side-car
sister, and they booked in at wayside inns
as a married couple. The plan worked well,
with no complications, and when the girls
parted with the cycle in New York, they
considered they had toured the States with
a minimum of expense and a maximum of
safety.
SPEARGRASS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The roses bloom beside the walks of gardens
in the town,
And fill the air with perfume when the sun
is going down.
Where lovers meet at eventide to kiss be-
neath the trees,
The odor of pittosporum hangs heavy on the
breeze.
The magpies in the morning sing Good-bye
to gloomy night;
The scent of May comes stealing through my
window with the light;
But when the sun is hot upon the friendly,
fragrant loam,
It’s the sweet smell of the speargrass that
takes me back to Home!
All down the road the honeysweet grows
white on either side,
And I am young again, and she ! The
early morning ride!
The wattle brings its memories of days for
ever by—
Of meetings and of partings in the month
of “dear July”!
The mignonette and violet have a heartache
all their own;
The last, long parting of them all when one
was left—alone!
The tang of seaweed on the shore—l once
again would roam !
But the sweet scent of the speargrass takes
me right back Home!
S.A.
CHARLES HENY SOUTER.


“Noo Zee” : One of the effects of the M.L.
'quake was the complete obliteration of the
Westport-Kaiamea highway for a distance of
22 miles. The country is so shattered that
engineers doubt the possibility of rebuilding
the road. Thus Kaiamea, with a population
of 300, is back to where it was 50 years
ago, solely dependent on the sea for access.
Corby Vale, a mere village, had 12 farms
entirely wiped out. The inhabitants were
rescued after three weeks of complete isola-
tion, a rough bridle track having been con-
structed for the purpose. Few, if any, are
likely to return to where their homes were.
* * # *
“Dandyfunk”: “Stellsby” is not quite
accurate in his reference to the founder of
the Blue Anchor Line, to which the ill-
fated Waratah belonged (B. 24/7/’29). W.
Lund was never a ship’s carpenter. He was
a sailmakcr, and owned a sail loft at Ald-
QUITE A SUCCESS.
Gladys: “Maisie’s husband has put on over a stone since she
married him.”
BERYL: “Yes, I believe he’s turned out to be a wonderful cook.”
gate, London. His first venture in ship-
owning was the composite barque Eleanor,
which ran mostly to the Persian Gulf.
Lund’s nephew (who was my father) was in
command, and I myself was born on the old
hooker during a hurricane off Mauritius.
The Eleanor is still doing service as a coal
hulk at Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean.
Afterwards Lund owned the tea clippers
Yeddo, Mikado, Serapis and Ambassador.
When steam began to oust sail he sold the
clippers and invested in the steamers Yeo-
man and Delcomyn, which ran on the Aus-
tralian coast carrying cattle from Gladstone.
* * * *
“X.D.”: Melbourne’s latest murder case
cuded in a rather impressive vindication of
chivalry. A young man —a lieutenant in the
civilian forces —was charged with having
sent a neighbor out of this world with his
service revolver. His defence was that he
bad heard a woman screaming that she was
being attacked with a knife. Picking up his
lethal weapon, he went out, in company with
bis brother, and saw that it was so. When
they intervened the man, who was the worse
for liquor, turned on them with something
bright shining in his hand. The lieutenant
fired obe shot into the ground as a warning
and another into his assailant’s stomach as
a deterrent. He admitted running away
afterwards and lying to the police, but
pleaded that he was frightened. After listen-
ing to the usual contradictions, the Judge
summed up in the prisoner’s favor. The
jury found the young man not guilty, and
'Sonah discharged him without a stain upon
his reputation, after remarking that it was
a pity more citizens did not have as high a
sense of public duty.
* * * *
“Lampey”: “Centurion,” dealing with the
projected abolition of
the Bank of Eng-
land military guard,
says that Guards regi-
ments are the only
ones beside the Royal
Fusiliers —the City of
London Regiment ■ —
which may march
within the boundaries
of the City of London
with fixed bayonets.
He is wrong. The
Royal Marines have
the same privilege, and
I believe there are
others. Anyhow, as an
old Red Marine my-
self. I have partici-
pated in a march
through London with fixed bayonets.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: The popular belief
that Batman and Fawkner, on the Yarra,
and the H’entys, at Portland, were the first
persons to engage in commercial pursuits
in Victoria is not borne out by such records
as exist. In 1830 Henry Reed sent a party
of men to Westernport to strip wattle-bark,
which he shipped to London along with
some wool from Launceston. Reed had
whaling stations at Kangaroo Island and
Portland Bay in 1831, the Hentys at that
time being iii occupation of a grant of 8000
acres on the Swan River (W.A.), which
they afterwards abandoned, arriving at Port-
land Bay in 1834. Here they purchased
Reed’s whaling station, and combined whal-
ing with pastoral pursuits. Reed, who
used a schooner to transport his men and
supplies from Launceston to the whaling
grounds and bring back the product of their
labor, seems to have been somewhat dif-
ferent from the reputedly godless whalers
of that era. He preached the first sermon
in Melbourne in 1835, his congregation being
composed of five persons—Batman, Buckley
“the wild white man,” and three Sydneyside
blacks.
* * * *
“Meteren” : I recall a brief period during
a night at Ypres that must have been nearly
a record for mishaps amongst the dot-dash
frat e r n ity. The
length of trouble-
some line stretched
only about half a
mile from a trench
near the front line.
From Battalion
lI'.Q. end of the
wire we watched
proceedings. First
a Brass-hat tele-
phoned a complaint
to the operator,
who was squatting
in a muddy dug-out
at the other end.
The operator never
heard the com-
plaint, simply be-
cause he and his
gear had been blown
up a few minutes
earlier. A relief
wont forward with
new gear, and his
first message ad-
vised that Fritz was
throwing every-
thing he had around
the post. Almost
immediately the
lino went dead
again. The next
man on duty was
sent out in the
thick of the barrage
to look for the
break. After a
reasonable time, the
line remaining dead,
another signaller
was sent out first to
fix qp the line, and
afterwards to look
for his predecessor.
He was killed be-
fore he could per-
form the first task.
A volunteer was
called for to make
yet another at-
tempt. He suc-
ceeded in joining
up, and then helped
back the first of
his hapless prede-
cessors whom he’d
found lying
wounded alongside the wires.
* * * *
“Alto”: Blind Tiresaes of ancient Greece,
when he declared that he cared not who
made the nation’s laws so long as he wrote
its songs, wasn’t making much of a bid for
immortality. Song-writers—especially the
most successful of them —are soon forgotten.
Who can remember who scored “Ta-ra-ra-
boom-de-ay,” “Daisy Bell” or “Dolly Gray”?
Who nowadays sings “The Holy City” or
“The Bandolero” or “The Yeoman’s Wedding
Song”? _ Yet in their day those ballads had
world-wide fame. On a very much higher
artistic plane were the lyrics of Jacob
Blumenthal, a German composer who would
be the subject of centenary celebrations this
year if the world remembered the man who
wrote the melodies that pleased it best.
Thirty years ago his song with the refrain
“Though the rain be on the river the sun is
on the hill” was sung in every concert-hall
and ground out of every street-organ, and
he wrote many pieces equally attractive,
Queen Vic. made him her Court pianist when
he migrated to London, and it was probably
Blumenthal who edited and revised the two
or three very pleasing little vocal composi-
tions which the Lady of the (more or less)
Peaceful Reign produced.
HOW HE CAME TO BE UPSET.
BERYL: “No, I 'wouldn't drive a yard with
you You turn up like that after faithfully
promising you’d stick to the water waggon.”
BILL: “Sorry, m'dear Couldn’t help it—it ran into a pothole.”
“Chevroford”: The air-hog has made his
appearance in Vic. The other day a motor-
ist ambling along the Ballarat-road was
startled to hear the roar of an aeroplane
engine, and looking up saw a machine swoop
down to within a few feet" of his hood,
Frantically dodging, he landed his car in a
ditch with a burst tyre and a broken axle;
whereupon the airman soared off, apparently
satisfied with liis prowess. A following
motorist bore witness that the fliei showed
every intention of emulating a precisely
similar incident in a recent American film.
The law, of course, is well able to stousb
the air-hog—if it can catch him. A Com
monwealth ’bus made a mess a while ago
of a farmer near Richmond (N.S.W.), and
has since paid £l5OO to settle the pending
litigation, £ ...
• * he w •ts , ar?tr
States recently decided that his
establishment should go “dry ” presumably
as a sort of friendly recognition of Uncle
Sam’s official attitude on the liquor ques-
tion, his action received a lot of publicity
and criticism. Less notice has been given to
a recent announcement by General Dawes,
American Ambassador in Britain, that liquor
will not be served in future at the U.S.
Embassy in London. Dawes’s action is
really more consistent than Sir Esme
H'oward’s. A foreign embassy is supposed to
be a tiny bit of the country that maintains
it, grafted on the alien soil, and strong
drink being forbidden in America it is only
logical that it should be barred in TJ.S. lega-
tions all over the world. But as legal
opinion has been given to the effect that such
legations are not bound to conform to the
Volstead amendment, Dawes’s attitude is not
likely to be followed everywhere. Few, if
any, regular members of the American Con-
sular service in Australia have, however,
deviated from it. Even when unofficial
“Fourth of July” celebrations in this country
have been “wet,” such people as Consul-
Generals have consistently pushed the bottle
away.
* * * *
“Lucifer”; A motorist charged in a Bris-
bane court with driving while under the
influence of drink submitted the ingenious
defence that the strong smell of spirits de-
tected by the policeman was not in his breath
but on his chest. He had-a bad cold, and
he had saturated some cotton wool with
spirits, and had wrapped it round himself,
He got the benefit of the doubt.
* « * *
“Hatikvah” : There are plenty of Jews in
India (B. 24/7/’29), and they include an-
other community beside the “Black Jews,” of
whom “Schnorrer” writes. The swanky con-
tingent are the Bagdadi, from which the
Sassoons sprang. These look down with
unutterable scorn on the more numerous
Bene Israel, who are mostly to be
found in Bombay. The Bagdadi are
deeply inter-bred with the local natives,
and cannot trace their history back
further than a couple of hundred years,
though they retain many of the rites
and customs of the Faith. Their story is
that they fled from Palestine 2000 years
ago, their argosy being wrecked on the coast
of n.-w. India after sailing down the Gulf
of Suez and the Red Sea. The fact that
they do not commemorate the second destruc-
tion of the Temple, which happened after
their departure, is held to confirm this story.
* * * *
“Edward Denman”: The right to march
through the city of London with fixed bayo-
nets is not limited to the Guards regiments
and the Royal Fusiliers (B. 17/7/’29). The
East Kent Regiment (The Buffs) have
enjoyed the distinction for centuries, and it
may also be exercised by the Honorable
Artillery Company and the Royal Marines,
the latter at one time being merged in The
Buffs. Of the Guards regiments only the
third battalion (the Grenadiers) enjoy the
privilege. If the Royal Fusiliers have
obtained it their distinction is a compara-
tivelv recent one, whereas the Buffs have
held it since 1605. They claimed and were
accorded their right in IS4G, in 1862 (when
I was a member of the regiment), also on
May 16, 1906.
“Kingsway”: Complaints are often heard
that the news items cabled from this country
to England leave the impression that Aus-
tralians spend their time committing mur-
ders in the intervals of fighting droughts,
Still, these yarns are catastrophic and exrit-
ing, and, to that extent, news, whereas most
of the news items about Australians that
reach Australia from England are simply
futile. Two types predominate: (1) Lists of
Australians who haye been presented at
Court. (2) Yarns about Australians who
have been swindled by coniidence-men. Any
Australian, male or female, who has money
and push, and has not been in gaol recently,
can be presented at Court; and, according
to Scotland Yard, there are Fiji uncles who
live all the year round on rich Australian:-!.
In the words of the Bow-street magistral-
who sentenced the last to appear before him:
By similar stories large sums of money have
been obtained from colonials from the earliest days.
H: * *
“Hamer" : Two names which figure in
Australia’s early history are bracketed in one
entry of the register of St. Peter’s Church.
Richmond (N.SAV.), which recently cele-
brated its 88th anniversary—an earlier
church takes its record back 119 years. One
name is that of Margaret Catcbpole, who
arrived as a prisoner in the Nile in 1801 and
died in ( 1819: the entry is signed by the
Rev. ITenry Fulton, who was also trans-
ported, as a result of the discovery of fire-
arms in the garden of his Irish vicarage. He
received his provisional freedom and the
charge of the new Richmond church from
Governor Macquarie.
* * * *
“La Haye Sainte”: No need to go to Java
to find a stately monument to the great Bel-
gian victory at Waterloo, (B. 10/7/’29).
On the famous field itself, a bronze lion
commemorates the alleged feat of arms, or
(fid until the Prussians returned thither
in 1914. As they also claim Waterloo as
one of their own particular military achieve-
ments, it is quite possible that the Belgian'
lion was promptly removed from its emin-
ence. The British are about the only folk
whose connection with the historic scrap has
been ignored. When I was there, years ago.
there was nothing to record the defence of
Ilougoumont by the Guards Brigade, a de-
fence which was the pivot of the battle.
=:= * * *
"C.Q.": Foreshore erosion is a serious
problem in many places along the Victorian
coast and even inside Port Phillip Heads.
The force exercised by the waves is immense
and unceasing, and every day a fresh bit of
the State falls down on to the sands, is
pounded into gravel and swept out to sea.
Much of the threatened land has been sub-
divided and in some spots even main roads
are doomed to eventual extinction. Panic-
stricken councils along the favored baysid ■
resorts talk of Government aid to build con-
crete ramparts against the ocean, but it
would be a short-sighted Ministry, geologi-
cally speaking, which would assume the rok
of King Canute, There is abundant evidence
to show that the Yarra mouth was one-
-100 miles or more further south than it is
to-day. The relentless action of the sea has
already deprived Victoria of one of its his-
toric sites—the spot near Indented Heads
where John Batman first set his foot now
exists only in the memory of the local oldest
inhabitant.
❖ $ :Jc jj*
“Oxmead”: I recall the Mayor of one
Australian capital who was fond of closing
patriotic meetings in the earlier war years,
after our more powerful Allies had been duly
applauded, with a stentorian “Three cheers
for gallant little Montenegro!” The thought
of that tiny country struggling against
immense odds presumably appealed to his
Worship’s sporting sympathies, and the cheers
were always given lustily. But they seem to
have been rather a futile gesture. Some-
how the mountaineers failed to live up to the
reputation Tennyson had fastened on them.
40 years before, for their prowess against
the Turks. Nicholas, the sovereign who was
always represented as an epitome of all the
patriarchal and patriotic virtues, sought to
betray his people to Austria, or at all events
was driven out on suspicion of having done
so, and died in exile. And all the reward
his subjects reaped for throwing themselves
into the struggle on the side of the Entente
and Serbia was the loss of their independ-
ence. None of the little peoples who finished
up on the losing side got a worse spin than
little Montenegro, whose name was once a
sort of synonym for valorous right against
might.
BAR NONE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“K.C.:*Are the bars crowded in this locality?’ .
“Police Sergeant: ‘All bars are crowded.’”
—Sydney Licensing Court case.
The churches are mostly deserted,
Sky-pilots are wont to declare;
Too often the hatted and skirted
• Comprise all the worshippers there;
Tis only on special occasions
The stateliest fanes of our race
Experience surging invasions
To tax their available space.
You may notice museums forsaken,
Art galleries, too, and it jars;
But this may for gospel be taken:
There’s always a crowd iu the bars.
Heigh-ho!
The briskest of biz in the bars.
There are spells of long weeks in the forum
When the Wig no emolument earns;
And sometimes for lack of a quorum
The whole Legislature adjourns.
There are various worthy purveyors
Of items like tucker and clothes
Who bid for our custom with prayers
Or growl at its absence with oaths;
“House Full!” isn’t always the guerdon
Of theatre bosses and stars,
But Bung has few bothers to burden,
With bibbers by bauds in his bars.
Here’s how!
There’s always a crowd in the bars.
Rooms doctors denominate “ante”
Aren’t always capacity-packed,
And the queue is occasion’ly scanty
For him who would molars extract.
In short, whatsoever you’re buying
’Tis seldom you elbow-room need
Save only when corks are a-flying
And shouts one another succeed.
’Tis true —and perhaps it is pity
Your outlook on life if it mars —
But at least ’tis a theme for a ditty:
Wherever’s the heart of a city
There’s always a crowd at the bars.
That’s that.
They’re crammed chock-a-block, are the
bars.
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


é


The West
The Trousers
for
Hard Wear.
They’re “R o t li-
sted” Ready-for-
Service Trousers,
Tailored from
ê
Wool Saddle Twist and Guaranteed.
Satin Finish Tough Wearing. Side
and Hip Pockets Belt Loops Hip
Straps and Gauntlet Bottoms.
In Fawn, Light and Dark Grey, 37/6
State Size when ordering.
ROTHWELLS OUTFITTING
-^UMITED^
EDWARD STREET cnrrfmr 8 BCISBANE
m -
■is
m
m
■
Mpl
■■Hi;
m
i.
A GIFT HE WILL
APPRECIATE
Heavy Solid Gold Cigarette Case,
3in. x 24m £lO/10/-
Neat in the extreme, slim, beautifully finished,
you could not select a gift more certain of
appreciation than this heavy solid gold
Cigarette Case.
Designed to hold a single row of cigarettes
and fit snugly in the vest pocket.
Made in Australia, from Australian gold, there
are no heavy Customs Duties to pay, con-
sequently we are able to sell this case at a
considerably lower price than an imported
article of the same quality.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.
23-25 Hunter Street.
PLAIN FIGURES. CASH ONLY.
When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike,
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
and
Br eakf as t
Tariff
,f desired ,
-Special tarili' or iuciusive terms.
m
L
T
E
H O
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel,” Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Charles Lloyd Jones, of Sydney, who has
divorced his wife at Reno (U.S.A.) and
re-married, followed a historical precedent:.
The present Earl Russell, a descendant of
the Early Victorian statesman, a brother of
the brilliant scientist and philosopher Ber-
trand Russell, and a pillar of Liberalism
and the Reform Club, dia likewise 30 years
ago. He was tried by his peers for bigamy,
and, since he had committed a technical
offence “against the King’s peace,” they had
to convict him. His friend the Lord Chan-
cellor wept while sentencing him to three
months in the second division. Russell served
the sentence, but was granted a free pardon
by the King 10 years later.
A genuine chip off the old block is Harry
Minogue, the young Melbourne barrister,
who scored his second major victory in Vic..
Supreme Court by winning a big libel action
against Truth. His dad was the late
Michael Minogue, who was Under-Treasurer
while Bent, Murray, Watt, Elmslie, Peacock,
Bowser and Lawson were in office. Only a
few weeks previously Harry got heavy
damages for a client from a country doctor
for alleged unskilful treatment.
C. H. BOOK, K.C., Crown Prosecutor,
Melbourne, who has had a very busy
time lately.
Pneumonia and ’flu have robbed Australia
of many valuable lives this winter. A dis-
tinguished victim was Professor Walter Geof-
frey Duffield, Director of the Solar Observa-
tory at Mount Strombo, Canberra—the place
built by the Commonwealth on a small begin-
ning made by Clement Wragge when Ber-
nard Ingleby, known to Bulletin readers
for his verse and stories, was his assistant.
A Gawler (S.A.) and St. Peter’s College
boy, Duffield went to Cambridge after pick-
ing up the D.Sc. degree at Adelaide Uni.
Professor of Physics at University College,
Rending, he had made a European reputa-
tion as a scientist when the Australian Gov-
ernment snapped him up for Canberra,
besides serving in the Royal Flying Corps
and the R.A.F. He was only 50.
Harry Smith, Receiver of Revenue to
S.A. railways, has retired after over half
a century’s service. A keen citizen soldier,
with the rank of colonel, he was an extra
A.D.C. to the then Duke of York (now
George V.) in 1902, and has for four years
been secretary to the Naval and Military
Club in Adelaide. Hans Ileysen, the painter,
Is a brother-in-law ; a daughter is the wife
of aviator Keith Smith.
The rise in the price of wheat means a
lot to Liebe, the Westralian contractor who
has gone in for farming on the grand scale.
Liebe has 20,000 acres under crop, and it
is all looking well. His ambition is to be-
come the biggest individual wheatgrower in
the Empire, and he will probably achieve it
—if he hasn’t done so already.
The Wall family settled in Randwick,
Sydney, a hundred years ago; Dr. Arthur
Wall, whose death is lamented in the dis-
trict, lived there all his life except when he
was abroad on war service. Dr. Wall was a
good friend to the inmates of the Soldiers’
Hospital; and he was associated with nearly
every charitable movement in the suburb.
Kojiro Inouye, the new Consul-General for
Japan, bears, like his predecessor, I Toku-
gawa, a name famous in Japanese history.
A forebear of his, and the man who was
subsequently the famous Marquis Ito, both
Samurai of the Chosliiu clan, were the first
Japanese of the governing class to cross
to Europe. That was in 1868, just
after the abolition of the Shogunate, re-
signed the previous year by Prince Tokugawa.
The young nobles went to see for themselves
what Westei'n civilisation was like, and to
consider the question of its adaptation to
Japanese conditions. The result is one of
the marvels of modern history.
F. B. Ford, Acting Surveyor-General of
Queensland, retired on July 81, having
reached his 70th year. He was an excellent
servant of the State, and only the rule for-
bidding promotion of an officer once he has
passed his 65th year prevented him from
assuming the full title of Surveyor-General
when his predecessor’s mantle fell on him.
Melbourne born, Ford studied at Melbourne
Uni., but has spent the greater part of his
life in Queensland.
Nothing like showing faith in your own
medicine! A. M. Loewenthal, one of the
A.M.P.’s Sydney business-getters and a
well-known member of the Hebrew com-
munity, supports nine policies for £lOO each
which he has taken out on his own life in
favor of as many Sydney schools and chari-
table institutions.
John Vanstonc, of Wandearah (S.A.),
celebrated his 101st birthday by broadcasting
(in a voice low but clear) his recipe for
reaching his own time of life—live simply,
and avoid too much of anything. Vanstone
can remember the coronation of Queen Vic-
toria. He has been a good Australian since
1847, including the usual S.A. dash at early
Ballarat gold-digging.
Dr. Oliver Penfold, Bendigo’s oldest prac-
tising medico, has collected his last half-
guinea. A Londoner, who came to Australia
as a ship’s doctor, the old man was a Bendigo
institution for most of his 85 years. For
45 years he was on the council of the
School of Mines. Music was another of his
interests. He was no mean composer and
when near death himself he composed a
thanksgiving march for the recovery of King
George.
The late Bernard Baron worked in an
American tobacco factory alongside Sam Gom-
pers, who was to become leader of the Feder-
ation of Labor. Baron, a Polish Jew, in-
vented a cigarette-making machine, crossed
over to Britain, and became one of its richest
and most charitable men. His gifts to the
poor and to his employees were princely;
he also contributed handsomely to Labor
party funds, and was a big backer of the
Zionist cause. He always said his needs
were simple and that charity was his only
extravagance.
Even in the big open country between
Alice Springs and Darwin motor transport
has pushed men out of their old job. Jack
McCarthy got his team through from the
south just on 50 years ago and has been
bush-carrying nearly ever since; but the
motor-truck has come, and these days
McCarthy is opening up tracks for the petrol
chariots that jumped his claim.
The M.L. Parliament has acquired an
unusually frank member in David McDougall,
of Mataura. David told the people in his
electorate that he was a grandfather and
would soon be a great-grandfather. Refer-
ring to his correspondence with the Govern-
ment —he supports it —he said the only
Cabineteers he got any satisfaction from were
Ward and Atmore (Education) : the others
“filled their letters with piffle.” His first
speech in Parliament rocked the House for
over an hour. One of his remarks was that
an interjector reminded him of a lady who
was about to have triplets; another, that
large landowners didn’t go in for large
families because they knew too much. Mc-
Dougall for years had a milk-run at Gore.
Stephen S. Smith, who died the other day
at Killara (N.S.W.), was the father of
Stephen H. Smith, N.S.W. Director of Edu-
cation, and Professor Grafton Elliot Smith,
the famous anatomist and anthropologist.
The old man was a Government dominie
for nearly half his long life —he was 90
when the call came —and he had the order-
ing of the younger Stephen’s education when
he was head of the Grafton Superior P. S.
His other son also owed much to Dad’s talent
for imparting knowledge, although as a
youth Elliot Smith was sent to Sydney High.
George Ferrier, dead in Roma (Q.), was
a member of a family of whom it used, to be
said that no one could throw a stone in the
Maranoa country without hitting one of
them He reached Queensland from Victoria
in the 1880’s, and carried on the family
tradition for breeding high-class merinos
and for running a good nag or two when-
ever there was anything going in country
racing from St. George to Blackall, or from
Augathella to Mungindi. He went out at 51.
Monsignor Tom Hayden, president of St.
Pat.’s College, Manly, who has been in the
running a dozen times for vacant bishoprics,
has been appointed parish priest of Bal-
main in succession to the late Father Rohan.
Prof. BERNARD HEINZE, director-
general of music for the new Broad-
casting Co.
His place at the Manly college has been
taken by John Nevin, who left a leg in
Flanders and brought back a Croix dc
Guerre with palms. He was chaplain to an
English regiment. Nevin was at one time
vice-rector of Propaganda College, Rome,
later taking up the same position under
Hayden at Manly.
C. T. Madigan, Douglas Mawson’s first-
assistant in the Geology school of Adelaide
Uni., and one of his companions in the
Antarctic in 1912-14, is to lead an expedi-
tion in the opposite direction. It is to start
at once, and take two or three weeks in
looking over the country where S.A. joins
Q., north of the Adelaide-Birdsville track,
and south-east from Alice Springs. A region
roughly 200 miles by 100 is very little
known at present. The S.A. Royal Geo-
graphical Society sponsors the thing. A. A.
Simpson, its president, is finding most of
the money, and the R.A.A.F. is lending two
Wapiti ’planes for transport.
Currie, M.L.C., the latest unpaid addition
to the McPherson (Vic.) Cabinet, is taking
his duties seriously. He is an engineer by
profession, and before sheep claimed his
attention had practical experience in West-
ralia. The other day he drove up in his
own car to inspect the Eildon weir and
form liis own opinion of the subsidence. He
cross-examined one of the water commis-
sioners, an engineer, and got replies that
made his mind easier. In the Uppah Cham-
bali a day or two later he came out with
the sensible suggestion that the State should
publish a proper balance-sheet every two
or three years, and not confine itself to a
mere annual statement of accounts. If used
judiciously, Currie will be an asset to the
Ministry.
Joe Henderson, sometime manager at the
Lithgow (N.S.W.) blast furnaces, where he
did pioneering work for Australia in the
manufacture of ferro-manganese, is now
chemist to the Witwatersrand Co-operative
Smelters. As such he was associated with
the manager in winning a gold medal for
research —'extraction and estimation of
osmiridium from the banket ore—the highest
awarded by the Chemical, Metallurgical and
Mining Society of South Africa. Hender-
son has just been made a vice-president of
this body.
There is nothing dryasdust about Profes-
sor J. Alexander Gunn, of Melbourne Uni.,
whose “The Problem of Time” has been
hailed in London, America and Germany as
an important contribution to philosophical
literature and likely to become a standard
work. The Professor can give a wry twist
of humor to his conversation, and the critics
report that he has got the same touch into
a work which traces the evolution of the idea
of time from the Greeks up to the modern
office-boy. Gunn was a pupil of Bergson.
W. M. Gilbert, of Ballarat East, has won
a gold medal in unusual circumstances. He
was passing an abandoned mine-shaft when
he heard what he took for a cry for help.
Investigation disclosed that a dog had
fallen in and was caught about 46 feet down.
Gilbert went for human aid and a rope, and
was lowered to within eight feet of the
animal. Nothing else being available, he
removed his trousers and attached them to
the line, but even then he had to drop several
feet on to a false bottom of rotten planks.
Having sent the dog up in a leg of his
trousers, he followed hand over hand, arriv-
ing at the top dead beat. The Vic. Society
for the Protection of Animals recognised his
brave action after inquiring into the facts,
but the dog did it spontaneously—by fer-
vently licking his hand.
Because reorganisation of the Vic. Lands
Department will be necessary if the Rural
Bank Bill is passed, the Closer Settlement
Board (Mclver, Moore and Malcolm) has
been reappointed for a year only. Whatever
happens, however, Mclver is on velvet, as
he is Sec. of Lands as well as chairman of
the Closer Settlement Board. lie will prob-
ably be wanted on the directorate of the
Rural Bank if the measure is enacted.
Harrow (Vic.) has just buried Michael
Rosenthal, the last of the active partners
jn tin* old Western district firm of Rosenthal
Bros. The Rosenthals were Jews from
Kolmar, Germany, who made money at
hawking and put it into a general store which
they called Kolmar House. The store was
tin' wonder of the surrounding region. It
carried stocks unprocurable in Melbourne
during the war, and large quantities of the
goods were transported to the city—a fact
of which Harrow, with its 200 people, was
not a little proud,
R. Seymour Howe, manager of the Mul-
grave mill at Gordonvale, has gone to New
Guinea to report on the possibilities of that
country for sugar-growing. Several varieties
of cane grow wild there; but there’s more
than that to consider. Seymour Howe
is a chemist as well as a mill manager; ho
represented the Queensland sugar industry
at a congress in Cuba. If his report is
favorable, N.Q. growers may transfer some
of their interests to the Mandated Territory
or Papua.
Norman Mighell has led a busier life than
most young Queenslanders of his generation.
He went abroad with the A.1.F., practised as
a solicitor at Innisfail, and contested the
Herbert Assembly seat against Percy Pease.
Going to Brisbane, lie became a power in
the R.5.5.1.L.A., was named State president
and recently was appointed to the pensions
appeals tribunal. Journalism is another
of his interests; he is a director of the Cairns
Post by virtue of his marriage with a
daughter of the late. A. J. Draper, lie looks
now towards a Bar practice, and probably
sees a Judge’s robes in the distance.
Dr. Charles Harris, the Canadian com-
poser, died at Ottawa recently. lie toured
Australasia 20 years ago with the Sheffield
Choir. He was reputedly a millionaire, and
the choir’s tour was made possible by his
guarantees. A jovial soul, he made friends
wherever he went, and it was his pride to
introduce them to a large and talkative
parrot which accompanied him on • his
wanderings.
S. J. BERRY, superintendent of the Silver-
ton Tramway Co., principal witness in
the Coroner’s Court lately—after a
fatal motor collision; he was the other
driver. But the long inquiry ended
without blame being attached to any-
body.
The majority of Vic. Parliamentarians
who have resigned from Cabinets because
they differed with colleagues have come
again. Notable instances in the last 40 years
are Isaac Isaacs (now of the High Court).
McLean, John Murray, Mackinnon, Bowser,
McPherson, Allan and Goudie. Allan, dropped
by Lawson, succeeded him as Premier; Mc-
Pherson, who quitted Lawson’s Cabinet, has
also become Premier. On the other hand.
Sargood never had a taste of office after
leaving Turner in 1894. Frank Stuart, J.
M. Pratt and R- T. Vale were others who
cut the string and were not employed again.
DESTINY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I do not know if I am- glad to see
The Rose of Life upon Time’s lichcned
wall
Blow into reds and purples splendidly,
From flewy budding unto flowery fall.
I do not know if Youth’s elusive dance
Is fairer than full Life’s more static shape,
Or if the tender bloom will but enhance
The purple juices of the riper grape;
Or if Old Age will cap them both and lend
A sweeter bouquet to a richer wine,
So that hereafter we shall comprehend
The rose’s thorns, the drooping of the vine.
But at the end I shall be glad, I know,
That everything was just exactly so.
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN LUOAS.


SAMSON AT THE T.P. MILL.
“Judge Curlewis said that, while the T.P. system had its uses, it induced extravagance and led to misery and dishonesty.”
SAMSON’S MISSUS: “Here, shake it up, Sammy. I’ve just made another beautiful debt for you to work off.”
Poverty
Point
“Cauboy”: Considering the present state
of the drama, the two Melbourne manage-
ments, each of which has an ambulance out-
side its theatre, have selected the wrong
vehicle. It ought to be a hearse.
M. G. Skipper: I haven’t the slightest
objection to coming from behind a pen-name
I lately used if it gives Mr. Beresford
Fowler any satisfaction. Why my opinion
of Mr. Fowler's acting should differ from the
“wonderful notices” alleged to have been
given him by the distinguished persons he
enumerates I haven’t the foggiest conception.
Perhaps they haven’t seen as many of his
performances as I have. An actor who per-
sists in taking a leading role in nearly
every play he produces, regardless of his
physical or temperamental qualifications, is
apt to get. on the nerves of a regular critic.
Anyhow, if Mr. Fowler thinks I am such a
rotten judge, why does he use my remarks
for advertising purposes when they happen
to be favorable?
“C.R.”: It seems that good drama and good
acting are required if an impression is to
be made even on the youngest minds. I took
a small boy to “The Zeppelin Terror” in
Melbourne the other afternoon, but its obvi-
ous horrors only made him laugh. On the
other hand, at an Allan Wilkie performance
of “Macbeth” a boy of the same age kept
gripping my arm, and I shortly discovered
that he was keyed up to a high pitch of
emotion. Subsequent inquiry elicited the
confession that he believed that the King,
Banquo and the rest of them were actually
being slaughtered to make a young theatre-
goer’s holiday.
“Trebor” : It looks as if there is going to
be a theatrical revival in Brisbane. “This
Year of Grace” opened at the Empire lately
to a capacity house, and so did “The Patsy” at
His Majesty’s. Two shows opening together is
practically unprecedented in Brisbane. "The
Desert Song” follows “The Patsy” and there
are very concrete rumors about the imminent
showing of “The Five-o’clock Girl.” More
rumors have it that the old Bphemia is
reopening, and Cremorne has been booked
a long way ahead by the numerous amateur
societies, which have come to life during
the past year or so. Nellie Bramley, despite
such competition, still draws capacity houses
at the Royal, and has leased the theatre
for another three years. Her latest asset is
Robert Ginns, who used to be with Muriel
Starr.
“Hamer”: I met Jack Cannot with the
usual grin on his face two days before, last
week, he added another to the list of real-
life tragedies connected with our stage. A
man is given the sort of salary that does
not grow on every tree; he finds his tree
exhausted, and out he goes—it is hard for
one who might have been satisfied with £4 p.w.
to cut down his expenditure from £2O once
he has got used to it. It was the change-
over in broadcasting which cost Cannot liis
life. He had a good spell with Williamson’s;
when that was over he settled in Coogep
and ran a dance hall —Cannot Hall is still a
feature of the Coogee landscape. From that
he was lured into broadcasting; and broad-
casting let him down.
“D.”: Jack Cannot is the first prominent
victim of mechanised entertainment. H'e
knew the theatrical business inside out; he
was a good business man, except for his in-
ability to say “no” to a cadger; he loved
work and had no vices. He was popular in
the profession and he had a huge public out-
side it. He was the only panto, comedian with
a singing voice (a robust baritone) and the
capacity to use it artistically who has ever
visited Australia, lie used to say latterly
in a half-bewildered, half-affrighted manner:
“I can sing, I can act, I can dance and I
can comede. Why are there no jobs for
me?” He was different from any imported
actor I have known in two ways: he took to
Australia as soon as he arrived here, and
eventually became completely Australiauised ;
and his domestic life was so edifying that it
was quoted by mummers all over the Empire
in refutation of the claim that male members
of the profession make bad husbands. He
belonged to an Anglo-French family of some
distinction, one cousin being an Old Bailey
silk, and another a brigadier who did good
A.S.C. work in the World War.
“A G.M.” : Reference to Australian-singer
Amy Castles in the Sundry Shows criticism
of Giannini (B. 17/7/’29) reminds me that
on the Sunday before I left London recently
I heard Pedro Tillett at Paul Robeson’s
Albert Hall concert say, “The two most
delightful thrills of my life were the first
time I heard Amy Castles sing and the first
time I visited San Francisco.” Pedro Til-
lett, who used to run the leading London
concert agency, knows all the world stars,
and is at present one of the high priests of
the British Broadcasting Corporation. llis
brother John, another concert agent, married
Hetty Iloiroyd, a Sydney warbler who figured
on the programmes as Esta D’Argo.
“Cauboy”: “C.” hits the nail on the head
when he says (B. 10/7/’29) that the talkies
have an immense advantage over the legiti-
mate theatre because of the absence of class
distinction in the matter of seats, brought
about by the abolition of the gods. Another
factor is the splendid frame in which the
lugubrious new entertainment is presented.
A night at the movies is no longer despised
even by the Upper Ten, as can be gauged by the
number of Rolls Royces that are now parked
outside the picture palaces. If the legitimate
theatres did not look the faded barns they
are they would soon regain their Social Im-
portance —and in theatrical enterprise Social
Importance is half the battle.
“F.S.G.”: Laid aside his baton at Laun-
ceston (Tas.), at 58, Alex. F. Lithgow, one
of the world’s leading composers of band
and orchestral music. Born in Scotland, he
was six when lie landed in Maoriland. At
11 he was a member of the Invercargill Gar-
rison Band, and a few years later he won
the cornet solo championship at the M.L.
and South Seas Exhibition, Dunedin, 1890.
He settled in Launceston about 1894, and
became conductor of St. Joseph’s Band (the
oldest band institution, by the way, in Aus-
tralia to-day). His “Invercargill” and
“Gippsland” marches have long been favor-
ite gramophone records and rolls for player-
pianos ; Sousa was proud to render other of
his marches with his n works. On its
publication in England and America “Inver-
cargill” broke all sales records for this class
of music. He left behind quite a pile of
compositions which have not been submitted
to a publisher, amongst them several
that he considered superior to his most popu-
lar published pieces.
“Te Pana” : A Maoriland co. is purchas-
ing for cash the right of reproduction of
music in sound films, and proposes to charge
an extra fee —which means that a showman
may be placed in the position of having
hired a film and being unable to screen
it, because he has not the right to the
musical part without payment of a royalty.
When trouble arose between theatrical pro-
prietors and the International Copyright
Association in the matter of fees, the Gov-
ernment stepped in and limited the amount
to a figure based on so much per .100 seats.
Similar protection is now being sought for
the canned stuff.
“Cine xMa": "A. Major” (B. 17/7/’29)
disagrees with a host of eminent authorities
when he says that the person who gratui-
tously labelled the “Appassionata” made a
mistake and that the sonata really repro-
duces the sounds Of the sea. His choice is
all the more unfortunate because Beethoven
is the one composer who most sedulously
avoided describing natural phenomena, except
in the Sixth Symphony. As for the “Tann-
hauser” overture, the pilgrims’ chant is only
part of the piece; the rest is as definitely
voluptuous as Ethel M. Dell would like to
be. If “A. Major” doubts that the language
of music is as precise to the musician as if
it were stated in print he should watch the .
conductor of a picture theatre orchestra at
work at the private showing of a new film.
With a stop-watch before him the conductor
carefully times the incidents passing on the
screen. According as the passions of love,
hate, joy or terror are being portrayed, so
he delves into an unlimited repertoire and
jots down the appropriate piece of music
to be played. As attendance at cinemas
will show, despite the diversity of conductors
and the wide area of choice the selections
are substantially the same.
“Unity”: Some Hollywood luminaries
must find the talkies a horrible trial in self-
restraint. A disillusioned flapper who re-
turned to Australia from Movieville some
time ago staggered youthful adorers of pic-
ture stars by stating that the stars used the
most lurid language while being “shot,” love
scenes in particular calling forth their most,
objectionable vocabulary. She was saved
from being branded a Sapphira of deepest
dye by protests that began to appear in vari-
ous papers from lip-readers, w’ho complained
that pictures were ruined for them by the
fact that the characters were swearing pro-
fusely.
“Pedess”: “Stellsby” (B. 3/7/’29) and
“Cine Ma” (B. 12/6/’29) have both dis-
closed to some extent the cause of poor
attendances at high-class concerts. But if
concerts are to be made popular among the
rank and file a little judicious mixing should
be given a trial. No need to “sing ’em
muck”; the range of good vocal and instru-
mental music is wide enough. No artist,
however clever and brilliant, need be
ashamed to sing or play some of the favorite
pieces which would provide genuine enjoy-
ment for the majority and contrast pleasantly
with the technique and subtlety of the more
modern compositions.
PSYCHE AT THE PICTURES.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Just where we met and when and how
Are things that scarcely matter now.
Fate ’twas, no doubt, that gave the cue,
Since I, a trifle bored, and you.
So calm and complaisant, are here
Between the Bourgeois and the Beer.
The slimness of your silken knees
And your aloof, dark glances please
My idle thoughts that dream you stand
Fenced far away in Fairyland
Gold-crowned with daffodils, not here
Between the Bourgeois and the Beer.
Yet, maid of some moon-misted isle,
Yours is an ultra-modern smile
That lures me on to lightly press
An arm about your slenderness,
All in the tender twilight here
Between the Bourgeois and the Beer.
And this, it seems, awakes your heart,
For with a happy sigh you part
Those enigmatic lips and say
The old, old words the old, old way
To me, grown disenchanted here
Between the Bourgeois and the Beer.
Ah, well, I’ve sought, maybe too long,
The angel of a poet’s song!
Perchance life holds no more than this,
The chocolate flavor of a kiss
Sipped in the scented darkness here
Between the Bourgeois and the Beer.
Who knows? At least, a thrill divine
You give to hearts and heads like mine.
Compact, sans doubt, of seasoned woods —
Oh, girl, you’re certainly the goods!
Well worth a dozen angels here
Between the Bourgeois and the Beer.
QTJEEN SEA ND.
J. HOLLOWAY.


c ilzOiy{utijon ut — ( fhoe£aZioti in Qualify
Tungstone Plates Strongest Heaviest Longest Life
Highest Storage Capacity of any Plante Plate in the World
ALL STORAGE BATTERY MAKERS OF THE WORLD BY LADLE, WITHOUT ANY PRESSURE, HAND POUR A RED
HOT METAL INTO A HEATED MOULD MADE OF SOFT METAL, WHICH IS SUBJECT TO PERPETUAL DISTORTION
Tungstone under Heat Control, by High Pressure, Injects a Continuous stream of
Low Temperature Metal into a Chilled Mould, which cannot be distorted.
Tungstone Slogan “The Plate is the Nerve Centre of any Battery”
BY HAND POURING THE HEAT OF METAL AND MOULD CANNOT BE CONTROLLED. It is impossible to imagine
two worse combinations, as a Low Metal Heat, is the all essential factor to prevent burnt-face areas and dross. In Hand
Pouring, each Ladle of Metal is separately drawn from an independent Pot, varying in weight and heat. The Metal is
hand-poured, at varying speeds, without pressure, which decrease as the Ladles empty. Under these incorrect Chemical and
Metallurgical working conditions, it is impossible to hand-pour a homogeneous Plate, or to evenly distribute the Metal to a uniform
thickness or weight. The plate cannot be cast entirely free from the many internal metal weaknesses. Tungstone Metal
is always in direct contact with the Mould, therefore a Continuous stream of metal, under High Pressure is Guaranteed to
cast in a few seconds, a homogeneous Plate, of any size and thickness, also a greater weight of metal is forced into any given Plate
area, an impossible proposition by Hand-pouring . The Speed of Machine High Pressure guarantees even distribution of the Metal
to the extreme limit of the Mould, always casting all Plates without weak metal spots, NO indiscernible blow holes, air pockets,
invisible cracks and splits. Tungstone’s Specially Designed Mould Guarantees symmetrical and deeper Lammels with solid
sections unbroken, not split, distorted, and no burnt-face areas.
Guaranteed NO Dross Cast in a TUNGSTONE Positive Plate. No oxidization or subtile Chemical changes can
take place during the process of High-Pressure Die-Casting, as the Metal and Mould are NOT EXPOSED to the Air and a
low-temperature Metal is used with a Chilled Mould. Other makers by Hand Pouring cannot guarantee NO DROSS, as red hot
Metal is used with a heated Mould and both are Continuously EXPOSED to the Air. All other Makers* Positive Plates
(only exception Tungstone) are cast with numerous Pockets of Lead Oxides (dross) that offer ready footholds for early attack
by the Sulphuric Acid Solution, permanently reducing Plate strength, progressively lowering Storage Capacity, and certainly shortening
the Working Life of the Hand Poured Plate. Tungstone Plate not water cooled or hand-beaten therefore Lammels are not damaged.
Hand poured Plates must be partly Water Cooled in the mould; must be hand pulled from the Mould in a pliable condition, and
in this partially heated state must be straightened out by Hand Beating. A plastic Plate manipulated by Hand has a definite tendency
to Buckle in service. Tungstone Machine High Pressure Die Casting is the only possible Method that Guarantees a physically balanced
plate that cannot Bend, Buckle or be Distorted. No Tungstone Plate handled until it has solidified and assumed its
Permanent Shape. Tungstone Finished Plate after chilling in Mould is mechanically ejected out of Mould.
Tungstone Guarantees OTHER* MAKER Highest Cell Voltage
Tungstone’s end point on Discharge is 1.93. All other makers Is 1.85 —a point creating Sulphation.
Tungstone guarantees low internal resistance and simultaneous charge and discharge from full surface of all Plates.
No other storage Battery in the World gives a Cell Voltage equal to the Tungstone and the Voltage will not
rapidly drop at end of discharge.
Inis Guarantee Cannot be Given by
tiny Other Battery MakeruthtWorld
TUNGSTONE ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD., SALISBURY SQUARE, FLEET STREET, LONDON, E.C.4.
Telephone: CENTRAL 8156. Cables: “ DILUTUM, LONDON.” Telegrams: ‘TYPIFY, FLEET, LONDON.”
Immediate delivery from Stocks can be given by :—r
SYDNEY: A. J. Dawson, M.1.A.E., 91 William Street, Sydney. Tel. FL2084
MELBOURNE: Hocking & Hadden Pty., Ltd., 208 Latrobe Street.
BRISBANE: Brisbane Cars and Tractors, Ltd.. 324-28 Wickham Street
Fortitude Valley.
PERTH: R. Little & Co., 33 Pier Street.
ADELAIDE: Mechanical Supplies, Ltd., Grenfell Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.: Aldridge Ltd., Hearne’s Buildings,
100 Dixon Street.


Home to England in Comfort for £3B!
ē
IN comparison to the fares paid, the new Bay
Boats offer you accommodation and service
second to none. Fares to England range from
£3B, or less than a penny a mile.
New “Bay” Boats —One Class only
This is important; in most liners the greater portion
of the ship is reserved for the use of first-class
passengers, others being placed aft.
On “Bay” Boats there are no divisions —each and
all enjoy the run of the whole ship. The public rooms
and lounges, the boat and other decks are for every-
one to use. There is a special playroom for children.
You can book two-berth, porthole cabins on the
promenade and other decks, also family cabins with
portholes. In the dining-saloon are tables for 4, 6
and 8 persons. Excellent cuisine and a late dinner is
served. Passengers have the undivided attention of t e
ship’s staff.
The installation of a cinema and panatrope add to
the pleasure of the journey home on a Bay Boat.
The route is via Ceylon, Egypt and Malta. Special
arrangements enable you to make trips ashore at
ports of call.
Free!
Write for full par-
ticulars and illus-
trated booklets —sent
free and post free.
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., or Aberdeen & Commonwealth
15 Bent Street, Sydney 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney
BRANCHES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES.
Line,
w
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s (coni. Sat.)..‘‘The Five-o’clock.Gir
Criterion (com. Saturday) “ Tll ® .^ tsy „
r o y*l “Brewster s Millions
P°'f Cß Nicola
Tivou Vaudeville
State . . ..." Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s “Show Bo ‘ vt „
Roy All “Dracula (
Kino's “The Prince and the Beggar Maid”
New Comedy “Journey’s End
Tivou Vaudeville
Hoyt’s " ... Movies and Talkies
State .7.7. .7.7..7 Movies and Talkies
Sydney's loading show of the moment is
the comedy "Safety First," put on by a large,
not to say an imposing, cast for the Royal
Art Society at the Education Gallery. At a
glance it might appear that the theatrical
analogy is rather stretched. There is nothing
dramatic about this show; a too-conscien-
lious censorship lias robbed it of the broad
humor of an Archibald Prize exhibition, and
action is apparently taboo. But there is
a relationship ; botli here and on the stage
it is openly recognised that the safest joke
is the old one and that, next to that, nothing
wins applause like a mumbled snatch of some
foreign language. Whether the stage
has • gathered this wisdom from art or
rice versa is unimportant: the analogy does
exist: the artist gives the old, old thing, or
else something which is utterly meaningless,
But looks otherwise.
In purveying meaninglessness the painter
differs from his brother artist in that liis
jest is usually unintentional. A fair example
is James R. Jackson’s group of nudes.
There is no excuse whatever for their perch-
ing naked in the lee of this paddy’s-lucerne-
stalk of a tree on the bosom of these moun-
tains. There is a faint excuse for a larger
bevy of the undraped by Charles Wheeler —
to the left lies the corner of a weedy bathing-
pool. Still, the studied cleanliness of the
eight or nine ladies makes one suspect then-
objective, especially as the setting is not
noticeably warm, but rather on the nippy
side. Examples of the aged jest are numerous ;
they range from W. Bister Lister’s choice of
the hackneyed ‘‘Three Sisters” (Blue Moun-
tains) as a topic—surely the photographers
ought to own those melodramatic abnormali-
ties by now—down to various tyro portraits
and glimpses.
One nf the most striking paintings in the
show is the tree group. “Golden "Days,” in
BEATRICE FISHER, whose fall from an airship removes a
charming personality from “The Zeppelin I error at
Melbourne Princess.
which, thougli it suggests that Corot must
be numbered among those ruthless plagiarists
of the past who have forestalled us, John
Banks has secured a romantic result in
luminous oils. Ilis trees, however, are not
what justifies the show: that honor belongs
to Sydney Long’s “McDonald Biver.” To
reverse the metaphor of the book reviewers,
who find it convenient to speak of the “can-
vas'’ of a writer, this is a lovely “page” of
romantic fiction. The river is the McDonald,
just as tliat painting by W. A. Bowring on
the other wall is undeniably the late head of
the Sydney Morning Herald, James
Fairfax, but literal veracity is not the
impressive merit of Long’s exhibit. It is a
fine painting- because of what the artist has
added to nature —his own spiritual outlook.
The river is green-shadowed in the fore-
ground ; a cone-shaped, tawny hill holds the
centre, above a mid-distance slumbrous as
afternoon; and just to the right of the peak
a handkerchief cloud floats, alight. It is
poetry done with a brush.
W. Lister Lister has better paintings hung
than the Blue Mountains piece mentioned,
but “The Majesty and Beauty of the Aus-
tralian Coast, N.5.W.,” is not one of them.
Heavy as its title, large as a double bed, it
sits solemnly upon the show and broods.
Right beside it, a quite small canvas proves
what the artist can do when separated from
his Australia-House complex. Jackson ex-
hibits a lot of canvases, and the nudes is his
only failure. His view of Middle Harbor
from the heights above the Spit adds to the
pedestal upon which he stands as the surest
painter we have of Sydney port. Charles
Bryant’s generally satisfying canvases in-
clude' a fine bit of turgid sea. His view of
Rabaul suggests that the author of the
current Bulletin serial must be immune
from the bite of liverish-green to go on
living up that way. Another of the more
ambitious efforts, G. Lyall Trindall's
“Thetis,” is what only one nude in a thou-
sand manages to be —not an insult to the
feminine figure. W. A. Bowring’s group of
dull beer-cliewers is interesting in revealing
the power of the commonplace to drag all
attempted interpretation down to its own
level. .T. S. Watkins exhibits a square mile
or so of competently painted flesh; A. Dat-
tilo Rubbo paints his old man a few more
times; Lilias Garling, for a youngster, has
a nicely finished landscape ; J. Salvana gets
close with one and misses badly with
another; old Tom Roberts delivers a neat
address to the young; T. Freidensen has
mediocre paint and fine etchings; John
Richard Flanagan, who left this land for
U.S.A., has some tip-top magazine illustra-
tions, for which he demands, immodest
prices; G. K. Townshend is so good in
. several landscape notes that a more complete
painting would be very welcome ; Ray Lind-
say could have kept his decorative job at
home without damaging his reputation ; Wil-
liam Rowell has some faithful patches of
Outdoor Australia ; D. G. Cowell Ham is
out of the rut with a Maoriland harbor in
water-color, in which medium M. J. Mac-
nally and C. Savage each has a presentable
decoration; Doug-
las Pratt and D.
M. Wilmott seem
young and promis-
ing.
However, pretty
well all, known
and otherwise, act
perfectly their little
roles in the comedy
•‘Safety First,” the
authorship of
which may fairly
safely be ascribed to
Mr. Westinghouse
Brake Publico.
* #
“Show Boat,”
now moored at His
Majesty’s, Mel-
bourne, is written
round the river-
show business on
th e Mississippi,
which dates back
to the remote anti-
quity of “Huckle-
berry Finn.” Re-
cently an astute
New York producer
imported a genuine
show-boat troupe
and put it on at
one of the swellest
theatres. The mem-
bers of the co., who
had probably never
seen the great met-
ropolis even on a
visit, were pre-
sented to the dress-
coated audience in
all their simplicity
and alarm. Missis-
sippi show - boat
people are paid by
the month and are
lucky to get a fiver
per mensem; and
these were dazed by
the million c.p.
lights and over-
awed by the elegance of the throng, which
gladly paid 25 shillings for the privilege of
applauding the hero, hissing the villain and
roaring at the spectacle of virtue triumph-
ing over vice in the good old way.
Mississippi show-boats are flat-bottomed
barges of an unpretentious kind and liable
to sink at their moorings in the middle of an
act. The Williamsonian show-boat is si-
superfine affair, classed A 1 at the musi-
comedy Lloyds. It appears in the first scene
tied up to a wharf where niggers—some or
them real —are loading cotton when they
are not singing in chorus about the trials and
tribulations of their race. The shadow ox
tragedy is thrown across the _scene when an
inconsequential villain recognises in a mem-
ber of the troupe a woman with a drop of
negro blood in her veins. He reports it to the
sheriff, who proceeds to arrest her white
husband, miscegenation being a punishable
offence in that particular State. The hus-
band thereupon draws a knife, slits the
negress’s finger, sucks the blood and is thus
able to swear that
lie has negro blood
in him too. The
couple are dis-
missed from the
show, and the
heroine, daughter
of the captain of
the barge, steps
into the girl’s place,
while a sort of
river sundowner,
who has “hero”
written all over
him, takes the
place of the man.
This should be
enough drama for
one evening’s light
entertainment; but
the second act shifts
to the Chicago
World’s Fair, and
the heroine is
dragged down to
the depths of des-
pair and a double-
bed sitting - room
by the gambling
propensities of the
hero, who has mar-
ried her and pre-
sented her with a
child. They part,
but he brings his
grey hairs back to
the show-boat in
15)27, where he
meets the heroine,
miraculously pre-
served, since she
must now be ap-
proxiina tely 60
years old.
If “Show Boat”
prospers it will not
be because of the
importation of the
genuine negroes in
the cast. The star
performer in that
line was sitting in the. audience on the
opening night and his place was taken on
the stage by Colin Crane, ail Australian
Philharmonic singer, who, with the assist-
ance of burnt cork and a line baritone voice,
rendered the only arresting musical item ol
the evening, “Ole Man River,” exceedingly
well. The creoles, mulattos and other sun-
burned elements contributed a kaleidoscopic
night of rags and color which was not par-
ticularly effective on the whole. Every-
thing about the important part of Mag-
nolia, the heroine, was sacrificed to the tact
that Nydia d’Arnell is fairly intelligent
about the feet. Her acting was not much
above that of the average amateur and her
voice did not fill one with a burning desire
for a gramophone record of it. Glen Dam
presented an immaculately-dressed _ hero
painstakingly carved in wood, and his singing
suggested a promising tenor broadcasting
through Station N-O-S-E.
Nevertheless, “Show Boat” throws some
realistic sidelights on a quaint way of life,
and its spectacular and sumptuary appoint-
ments are up to the best traditions of the
Firm Bertha Belmore, Leo Franklyn and
Frederic Bentley are comedians of worth,
while Muriel Greel is an appealing _ little
actress with a throb in her otherwise incon-
spicuous voice. The ballets are charming.
None of the reputation as a conductor which
Efrem Kurtz made for himself at Melbourne
Auditorium recently was lost when he
steered the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra
through another programme at the Town
Hall on Saturday afternoon. At this
matinee William Murdoch did what present
writer has never seen any other virtuoso do
he abandoned the pianist’s traditional long-
face and positively chuckled with glee, m
which he was quite right, for there never
was a more ehucklesome piece than Beet-
hoven's C Minor Concerto.
* * *
Wrapped in a Roman toga, Giannini con-
tinues to sing at Melbourne Auditorium,
accompanied delightfully by Molly Bernstein
and interspersed by Sol Deutsch, a violinist
whose performances do not call for super-
latives. The diva’s Italian arias move her
audiences to tumult —but, then, so do her
lullabies! The chief drawback to an appre-
ciation of Giannini is the appalling frigidity
of the Auditorium.
* V *
To test out a theory that the magic in
which Nicola is dealing at Sydney Palace
boats present-day panto, hollow as a young-
ster’s entertainment, The Bulletin sent
two small boys into the stalls last
AVednesday afternoon. Nicola capped the
experiment by inviting the nippers up to
help him juggle hen-eggs. Result: (a) Panto
taken the count for ever; (b) Bulletin,
always a bit sceptical, satisfied that the
youngsters who never fail to be a fair
part of Nicola’s shows are utter strangers
to the wizard, and haven’t been primed up;
(c) four eggs mysteriously damaged in the
kitchen on Thursday morning, and smaller
MARGARET LANDIS, shortly to make her bow to Australia
with the mercery-house play, "Lombardi, Limited."
boy half-suffocated through being bound and
crushed into a suitcase.
Apart from the magic, which makes a
remarkable impression on the young idea,
the circus-ring foolery of Herman Holmberg
—most of whose jokes have so many whiskers
that they’d need to know the countersign
in China just now—is at least better than
the bedroom jests of the modern Dame; and
Ibex, telling stories in shadow with his
hands, also gets home to the heart of the
very young. A few alterations have been
made in the main bill, but a costume change
on the stage is still the best illusion; as a
surprise ending, it could give points to U.
Henry. It) and a dozen or so other illusions
are sound adult fare.
¥ ¥ ¥
Paulo, Paquita and Chikita were still
dancing delightfully at Sydney Tivoli when
The Bulletin looked in last week. Davu.
Poole, ventriloquist, was also continuing on
a good run, with an unusually good turn of
its kind The short talkies are not yet tuned
in quite as perfectly as they are. elsewhere,
but they add variety to an engaging bill.
The principal offering in an all-round inter-
esting entertainment at Sydney Regent is th.'
M.-G.-M. talkie “The Broadway Melody,
already reviewed. In showing it, the Regent
management makes an experiment: for the
colored revue sequence, which is one ot its
most impressive features, a screen is used
which fills the whole space of the large
proscenium. It suggests varied possibilities
in the screening of huge spectacles.
After a good run with On Trial, the
Havmarket has turned to “Weary River,
which will be dealt with in Shadow Shows.
So will the State’s current offering, Ihe
Wheel of Life.” The State s bill includes a
fine ballet and a pair of good male dancers,
but its best item is a short cartoon talkie,
in which pencilled mice knock melody out
of cheese and other musical instruments. An-
other fine “short” on the same bill is a pic-
torial record, with sound accompaniment, ot
racehorses and foals playing about in the
open.
At Brisbane Royal the Cinderella Shoe
Factory is painfully shaky, until Sunshine
Jimmy Robert Ginns drops in, persuades the
owner to let him take over the management,
and in no time is leading a prosperous show,
and has even married Nellie Bramley, the
factory’s book-keeper. “The Patsy” is still
going strong at His Majesty’s.
1 -—I


ẃ
Winchester Rifle, Model 56.
22-Cal. Long Rifle only .
Handles well
and
Shoots well.
ẅ
The Rifle
for Small Game
Price, £5. Post free to all parts of
Australia.
The Gun House,
COWLES (Q DUNN
Write for Catalogue B.
453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Pisk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commercial Banking Cos. of Sydney.
Dividends To
June, Profits. (10 p.c.) Reserves. Reserves.
1919.. 301,571 200,000 101,571 2,198,814
1920.. 348,602 245,154 103,448 2,302,262
1921.. 392,923 250,000 142,923 2,445,185
1922.. 397,885 296,649 101,236 2,546,421
1923.. 422,068 300,000 122,068 2,608,489
1824.. 451,667 330,170 121,397 2,789,886
1925.. 480,261 349,920 130,341 2,920,227
1926.. 485,069 350,000 135,069 3,055,29 G
Bank of Victoria absorbed.
Reserves taken over, £850,000 ..£3,905,297
Written Off.
1927.. 556,705 401,818 50,000 4,010,184
1928.. 653,243 473,212 50,000 4,140,215
1929.. 655,194 473,901 50,000 4,271,508
The outstanding features of the latest
accounts are a growth of £2,596,177 in de-
posits and an increase of £2,856,528 in
advances. Conditions during the year were
mixed. Wool was down, though the clip
was heavier. Wheat, thanks to a bigger
harvest, brought in more, despite a sharp
drop in the price during the latter part of
the season. Dairy produce registered a
gain, but owing to the method of compiling
the statistics things are not so good as
they look in that quarter. For most rnanu-
factureres and retailers, however, trading
became more difficult. Moreover, there is
a lot of uncertainty about the future, so
the cautious management, after making pro-
vision for bad debts and other contingen-
cies, wrote the year’s net profit only £1951
better than the 1928 figure. Still, the result
was a healthy 13.8 p.c. on average capital
compared with 13.8, 13.8, 13.8, 13.7 and
13.6 p.c. back to 1924, when wool fetched
hitherto unheard of prices. Of course .the
profits disclosed by any bank can be only
an approximation; and the movement of the
figures in this case seems to suggest that, in
the opinion of the heads, the bank’s busi-
ness has every year lately been a shade
more profitable.
For 93 years the business of the Com-
mercial of Sydney had been confined to
N. S. Wales and Queensland. Then a change
occurred. A little over two years ago the
Bank of Victoria, an old friend, was welded
into the business, thus providing a substan-
tial Victorian connection with a small but
growing one in South Aus. The deal was
put through for £2,217,022 —£1,478,010 in
cash for return of vendors’ capital and
balance in scrip for surplus assets —and
reserves benefited by £850,000. In this and
other ways £1,239,013 was added to paid
capital, raising it to the £4,739,013 at which
it now stands.
After handing shareholders the usual 10
p.c. div., which called for £143,731 more
than it did five years ago, and striking
£50,000 off the book value of premises, the
£131,293 of the year’s net earnings that
remained earned the visible lay-by to
£4,271,508, which is within £467,505 of
paid capital at June 30. With such attrac-
tions in the window and strong pinner re-
serves besides, it is not surprising that the
market has periodically dreamed dreams.
But more than 70 years have passed since
the last lot of bonus scrip was handed out,
so it is plain that that form of gift is viewed
with disfavor. Another expectation has been
a lift in the div. rate, which has been
steady since the end of last century; but
conditions have so altered of late as to
make this very doubtful. The board has
hitherto compromised by making new share
issues at par, and since the scrip has always
been at a substantial premium on the market
the new issues have really amounted to
handsome bonuses to shareholders. This
plan is the best of all that offer.
How the amalgamation has swelled the
volume of business and other things are
visible in this comparison of balance-sheet
figures:—
192 G. 1928. 1929.
Notes . . . . £8,230 £14,244 £14,130
Bills .. .. 1,821,498 2,149,049 2,104,183
Deposits . . 38,539,205 51,824,699 54,420,876
Assets
Liquids .. £20,311,893 £24,480,243 £24,319,884
Advances . . 25,844,831 37,316,784 40,173,312
Premises, etc.. . 942,505 1,357,143 1,343,464
That deposits have shown such an encour-
aging increase despite difficult trading con-
ditions is partly due to lessened speculative
activity on the part of many with money
to invest. According to the last quarterly
banking returns, about 57 p.c. of the co.’s
deposits are interest-bearing. At the close
of last accounts advances amounted to 73.8
p.c. of deposits compared with 67 p.c. three
years earlier, when the bank was holding
£6 3s. 4d. of the public’s money for every
£1 of its own funds; the figure was £6 ss.
6d. at June 30. So, looked at from that
angle, the probabilities are that deposits
and advances won’t need to grow much
before the board begins to think about more
capital.
The liquid position, as usual, was very
strong. Depositors and others could see
Bs. 7d. of every pound of their money in this
form:—
_ . _ 1928. 1929.
Coin, bullion, Australian
notes, etc £8,806,256 £8,732,102
Money at short call .. .. 885,000 1,360,000
Short-dated British Treasury
bills .. ... . . 2,795,000 2,080,000
Public securities .. . . 6,576,852 7,170,256
Bills receivable • . . . . 5,041,444 4,493,337
Notes and bills of other
banks 375,691 484,189
The drop of £548,107 in bills in transit and
the net growth of £190,000 in call and short-
dated money in London is largely. seasonal
in character.
For the coming season the wool clip
threatens to be lighter and there is not much
hope of any substantial recovery in price.
The cheapening ought, however, to add
greatly to consumption and demand, so
there is at least a fair prospect of a
stable market. Wheat quotes are firmer,
due to uncertainty as to the Canadian crop.
Even the current price of ss. at country
sidings is dependent on ocean freights much
lower than ruled six months ago. Further
rains are urgently needed in parts of S.
Aus., N. S. Wales and Vic. The tightening
of the London money market and the recent
alteration in exchange rates is a plain call
to live within our means and honestly
balance the budget.
The market for the co.’s scrip, which is
paid to £l2 10s., has been steady around
£26 10s, for the past 12 months and more.
The immediate return at that figure is only
4.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The visible
backing amounts to £23 11s. Bd. per share
in net tangibles.
Metropolitan Gas Cos. (Melbourne).
Works Written
Divi- Charged Off
deeds, to lie- Stocks, Re-
Profits. (13 p.c.) venue. etc. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June, ’20.. 63,760 65,000 22,084 798 638,705
Dec., ’20.. 39,363 65,000 Nil Nil 613,068
June, ’21.. 63,495 65.000 Nil Nil 611,563
Dec., ’21.. 109,160 65,000 21,276. Nil 634,447
June, ’22.. 138,202 65,000 49,293 Nil 658,356
Dec., ’22.. 139,520 65,000 28,800 Nil 704,076
Refund of income tax .. £23,545 727,621
June, ’23.. 58,670 65,000 29.07 Q 8264 683,966
Dec., ’23.. 103,000 65,000 13,789 4262 \
Cost of Govt, inquiry, £7662 ( 0y0 ’ jo,s
June, ’24.. 125,385 65,000 46,871 5,533 704,234
Premiums on shares .. £43,628 747,762
15 p.c.
Dec., '24.. 128,677 82,197 41,743 4,378 748,121
June, ’25.. 105,182 82,500 18,628 5,270 746,905
Dec., ’25.. 141,568 82,500 50,603 4,194 751,176
June, ’26.. 113,457 82,500 39,094 3,880 739,159
Dec., ’26.. 134,805 82,500 33,500 11,364 746,600
Premiums on shares, £68,040 . . 814,649 ’
June, ’27.. 105,522 88,125 29,782 Nil 802,254
Premiums on shares, £123,423 .. 925,677
Dec., ’27.. 105,843 97,5Q0 28,374 4,586 901,060
June, ’28.. 124,236 97,500 25,000* Nil 902,796
Dec., ’28.. 121,457 97,500 25,562* Nil 901,191
13 p.c.
June, ’29.. 89,356 84,500 Nil Nil 906,047
*old plant written off.
Stoppage of coal supplies from the northern
N. S. Wales field and the importation of
stocks from England and Maoriland were
chiefly responsible for the drop of £32,101
in net earnings for the half-year to June
30. The div., which was lifted a couple
of points to 15 p.c. 41 years ago, was dropped
back to 13 p.c. again, and then took all
but £4856 of What the board said was net
profit.
This comparison of revenue and expendi-
ture figures shows where the trouble lay:—
June,’2B. Dec.,’2B. June,’29.
Gas sales .. .. £717,638 £749,068 £721,533
Residual sales, etc. . . 135,800 137,550 126,941
Total income .. £853,438 £886,618 £848,474
Manufacturing and dis-
tributing exes. .. 596,261 619,369 617,359
Other charges .. .. 132,941 145,792 141,758
There was an increase of 151 p.c. in the cost
of coal to the co. during the four years to
Dec. 31 last —at that date the figure was
40s. lid. per ton. Also wages have been
continually on the rise and hours have been
reduced from 48 to 44. One result was that
the 15 p.c. div. was placed in danger, so
an extra 5d., equal to 6J p.c., was tacked on
to the price of gas, raising it to 7s. Id. per
1000 e.f. in order to help the co. bear the
extra burdens. That was in Dec., 1927, and
during the next 12 months enough was
netted, despite a shrinkage of £47,786 in
returns from residuals, to repeat the 15 p.c.
to shareholders, strike £50,562 off old plant
and add a trifle (£131) to reserves. But
for the six months to June 30 last manu-
facturing and distributing charges (6s. Old.)
were 2d. per 1000 c.f. heavier than for the
Dec. half of last year. Also returns from
residuals (Is. 3d.) were approximately Id.
lighter. Thus profits (lOfd.) were bitten into
for 3d. a thousand. Since Is. a thousand
was netted for the year to Dec. 31, 1927,
the co. has lost the whole of the benefit from
the recent increase in price to the consumer.
He is therefore to be asked for more, though
how much has not yet been announced.
What imported coal is costing the co. per
ton the “Wild Cat” does not know. Thus
far the board’s foreign orders tot up to about
£360,000, and there is a substantial first
loss there, the chairman says. But the
effect upon the co.’s production costs does
not end with the payment of the base price.
It has to carbonise from 110 to 120 tons
of imported coal to produce the gas that can
be got from 100 tons of Maitland coal. And
it is doubtful whether the quality of the gas
is the same then. Thus, in addition to meet-
ing the increased cost of production, the con-
sumer will probably have to use a greater
quantity of dearer gas to get the same results
as formerly. Though the mess into which
our coal trade has got itself is primarily
responsible for this, the Government cannot
escape part of the blame. What it needs
to realise, or to be made to realise, is that
revenue from residuals benefits the consumer
as well as the co., which has been compelled
to cut the price of tar in order to compete
with imported road-making materials. For
the six months to the close of last accounts
the return from by-products was Is. 3d. per
1000 c.f. of gas sold as against Is. 8:!d.
three years earlier. The difference was more
than sufficient to offset the increase in manu-
facturing costs for the last six months.
The co.’s real position largely depends
upon whether the amounts spent upon addi-
tions and improvements to works, etc., and
charged to earnings, which is equivalent to
writing down fixed assets, proves to be suffi-
cient to cover actual depreciation. If it turns
out to be inadequate, then profits have been
overstated and future results arc likely to
be affected. During the last half nothing
was transferred from revenue to the capital
or reserve accounts, and only £154,195 was
spent on repairs and maintenance as against
£164,265 in the previous half.
The share capital (£1,300,000), pre-
mium capital (£519,201) and debentures
(£2,119,200) and other reserves (£86,846)
were invested in this way at June 30: —
Dec.,’24. Dec.,’2B. June,’29.
Paid capital .. £1,100,000 £1,300,000 £1,300,000
Debentures .. 1,584,200 2,119,200 2,119,200
Creditors . . .. 250,537 274,142 271,365
Fixed assets . . 3,113,090 3,923,086 4,022,151
Stocks and stores 255,750 257,093 246,715
Book debts, invest-
ments and cash 406,214 511,853 412,245
The increase of £99,065 in the book value of
fixed assets during the last half reduced the
unexpended balance of capital account to
£216,250. Coal stocks (£19,655, down
£106,516 over the last 18 months) are dan-
gerously low.
The drop in the nominal rate of div. —the
13 p.c. is only 8 p.c. on the share and pre-
mium moneys combined —did not surprise
the market, which prices the £5 shares at
£10; six months ago £lO 3s. was paid. The
return at the current figure is 64 p.c. on a
13 p.c. div. basis. If the co. escapes being
taken over by the Government or municipal
'authorities, legislative control of the price
and div. are eventualities which the investor
needs to keep in mind.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd. (Sydney).
Reserves
Transferred
June. Profits. Dividends. to Capital. Reserves.
£>£>£,
1919.. 26,276 12} p.c. =15,000 10,00 0 67,395
1920.. 33,970 124 „ „ 16,250 20,000 65,115
1921.. 15,310 10 „ ~ 14,989 65,430
1922.. 30,154 10 ~ „ 14,995 15,000 65,595
1923.. 40,835 10 ~ „ 16,500 15,000 74,930
1924.. 40,923 10 „ ~ 18,000 20,000 77,853
1925.. 41,180 10 ~ „ 20,000 20,000 79,033
1926.. 43,600 10 „ ~ 22,000 20,000 50,633
1927.. 54,141 10 „ ~24,000 15,000 ( „ 7 .
Taxation Reserve, £10,000.. ..) ° t> ‘ ‘‘ 4
1928.. 49,153 10 p.c. = 25,500 20,000 89,427
1929. . 57,453 10 „ „ 27,500 15,000 104,380
Last year’s profits benefited from the dis-
tribution recently made by Bawra. The
amount thus received, which might well have
been stated definitely, forms part of £15,000
nominally transferred to the reserve fund,
making it £95,115. The spring in gross
trading profits (£163,338, including this
windfall) was £12,213, notwithstanding
lower prices for wool. But cattle values
improved, and the co.’s fat-stock connection
always been very important. Last year
116,666 bales of wool were handled as
against 108,235 the previous year. Interest
on fixed deposits (£10.085) brought in an
extra £750, thus the total improvement in
gross profits (£173,423) was £12,963. Exes.
(£115,970, including a provision of £13,000
for taxation) took £4664 of the increase;
so the net result (£57,453) benefited by
£B3OO.
The £IS,(XX) of bonus scrip, which goes
out with the final div., is the sixteenth gift
in the last 21 years. It will make paid
capital £290,000, of which £235,000 has been
provided out of surplus profits since 1909.
Though it is £SOOO less than the previous
gift, it will provide one new share for every
184 held —the proportion was one for 12:1
a year ago. The continuance of these annual
bonus issues is largely governed by the
earning power of funds. The question is,
can the profits capitalised each year be
employed in the business as profitably as the
old capital? So far there isn’t any definite
proof of shrinkage. Last year’s profit was
equal to 20.9 p.c. on average capital (com-
pared with 19.3, 22.5, 19.8 and 20.5 p.c. back
to 1925), but last year’s lot included the
Bawra distribution, it must be remembered.
That the business has been so successful
is due to a number of things. One of them
is that, on the whole, N. S. Wales has had
a long run of good seasons, and wool, until
recently, brought very high prices. What
can happen in a bad season is shown in the
1921 figures. A most important factor is tne
co.’s extensive goodwill, which does not
figure in the accounts. For a long time the
co. did not do very much in the way of pas-
toral finance, but now that a lot more
attention is being given to that business much
will depend upon whether the provision for
contingencies proves to be adequate. The
inner strength in fixed assets is a big help;
but, for all that, shareholders should not
bank on the continuance of the bonus issue.
The co, is in such comfortable circumstances
that it may prefer to reward shareholders in
ways which don’t carry such a sting in their
taii.
The brisk growth of the business since
1920 is visible in this table:—
1920. 1925. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital.. £130,000 £200,000 £255,000 £275,000
Overdrafts .. 5,912 325,057 179,175 161,857
Other liabilities 43,258 34,032 54,372 24,880
Freeholds, etc. 125,092 149,280 148,618 161,913
Advances, etc. 98,943 378,186 274,606 243,205
Liquid assets 50,000 141,250 202,500 202,750
The £145.000 added to capital since 1920,
with £39,265 sent to reserves, and £137,56!
tacked on to the debt over the same period,
lias gone partly into advances on wool and
produce, partly into improvements and addi-
tions to the co.’s woolstore, at Pyrmont,
and partly into the bank. Thp increase in
the. debt lias been more than offset by a
growth of £152,750 in fixed deposits
(£202,750). Th»e co.’s wool turnover has
almost doubled during the last nine years.
Though more wool was handled iast year
than in the previous term advances (£243,205)
are down £31,401, which suggests a smallei
carry-over. This and surplus earnings
enabled tin 1 management to clip £17,318 off
the overdraft (£161,857) and £29,492 off
the amount coming to creditors (£24,880).
The increase of £13,295 in the book
value of the freehold (£161,913) is mainly
due to the installation of automatic sprink-
lers in the woolstore.
The market has recently revised its esti-
mate of the scrip, and prices it at 455.
as against 50s. a year ago. After allowing
for the final div. and bonus the return at
the current price is 4.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The visible backing amounts to 275.
2d. per share in net tangibles.
Goodlet and Smith, Ltd. (Sydney),
To
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 10,027 6 p.c. 9,900 127 55,231
Capital returned, £55,000.
1919.. 9,006 8 p.c. = 8,800 206 55,437
1920.. 9,112 8 „ „ 8,80 0 312 55,749
Assets written up . . 55,000 110,749
Transferred to capital, £IIO,OOO.
Balance of reserves ( £749) disappear.
1921.. 20,004 6 p.c. = 13,2 0 0 6,80 4 6,804
1922.. 17,404 7 „ ~ 15,400 2,004 8,809
1923.. 17,795 8 „ ~ 17,000 195 9,003
Inner reserves disclosed, £25,000 34,003
1924.. 17,621 8 p.c. = 17,600 21 34,62]
Capital returned, £IIO,OOO
1925.. 11,103 10 p.c. = 11,000 103 34,127
1926.. 11,008 10 „ „ 11,000 8 34,135
1927.. 11.876 10 „ „ 11,000 876 35,011
1928.. 10,094 10 „ ~ 11,000 34,105
1929.. 10,016 10 „ ~11,000 33,121
At one time the co. had widely-spread build-
ing-timber interests, and the management
bought freely in properties that were latei
enveloped by the growth of the city. Gradu-
ally the character of the business changed
A few years back it was decided to get out
of timber, and give more attention to tile-
making. One by one most of the old freeholds
were sold, and unearned increment was
responsible for much of the inner strength
disclosed during the last decade. In 1926
fixed assets were written up £55,000, and all
visible reserves handed out in a £IIO,OOO gift
issue. Three years later another £25,006
of inner reserves was brought to light, and
then 10s. of each pound share was returned
in cash. That reduced paid capital to
£IIO,OOO, at which figure it still stands, and
the scrip was consolidated into pound shares.
Meanwhile a substantial interest had been
bought in Kandos Cement. Recently the
holding in that concern, which has paid a
steady 10 p.c. since it was formed in 1920,
amounted to 100.000 £1 shares. Thus over
the last five years Goodlet and Smith has
been able to write pretty even profits and
hand out a regular 10 p.c. div., despite what
looks like very poor returns from its own
trading. Now Kandos and Australian
Cement —the latter's works are at Geelong
(Vic.) —have decided to merge their interests,
which arc to be taken over by anew eo.
for scrip. The idea is to reduce overhead
and distributing costs. The capitals of the
two cos. (£842,328 and £750.005 respectively)
will not be affected by the deal, which, how-
ever, should strengthen the position of each
co. for the struggle which threatens in the
industry.
A little over a year ago the Goodlet-
Smith co. commenced the output of a


The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, Limited
(with which is amalgamated The Bank of Victoria, Limited)*
EIGHTY-FIRST ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1929.
Presented to the Shareholders at an Ordinary General Meeting held at the Head Banking House, 343 George
Street, Sydney, on Friday, 26th July, 1929.
The Directors submit to the Shareholders a Statement of Profit and Loss and a Balance Sheet showing the Liabilities and Assets of the Bank on the
30th June, 1929, and present the following Report:—
The balance at credit of Profit and Loss Account, after adding the amount brought forward and deducting Interim Dividend at the rate of 10 P«
cent, per annum' paid on 25 th January, 1929, rebate on current bills and accrued interest on fixed deposits, reducing premises g
income and other taxes, and providing for bad and doubtful debts, amounts to
out of which the Directors recommend the following appropriations:
To Payment of a Dividend for the past half-year at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum
~ Transfer to Reserve Fund (making it £4,200,000)
„ Transfer to Bank Premises Account
„ Balance carried forward
£236,950 12 6
125,000 0 0
50,000 0 0
71,508 8 11
£483,459 1 5
This meeting is called upon to elect Directors consequent on the retirement in terms of the Articles of Association of Mr
General the Hon. J. W. Macarthur Onslow, V.D., M.L.C., and Mr. Edward R. Knox, who are eligible for election and have given the q
notice that they are candidates.
It rests also with this Meeting to appoint Auditors.
During the year branches of the Bank have been established at Bankstown, Bnbbaree, Mascot and Tottenham, in New. South Wales, at Belgrav ,
332 Flinders Street (Melbourne), and 131 Queen Street (Melbourne) in Victoria; and at Augathella and Goondiwmdi, in Queensland.
CFORCF I r.OHF.N. Chairman.
BALANCE SHEET OF
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
(with which is amalgamated The Bank of Victoria, Limited),
AT 30th JUNE, 1929 (including the figures of the London Branch by Cable).
Capital Paid Up . .
Reserve Fund . .
Reserve Capital . .
Capital Paid Up. .
Reserve Fund . .
LIABILITIES.
Notes in Circulation
Bills in Circulation
Deposits and other Liabilities
Profit and Loss Account . .
£8,814,012 10
14,129 10
2,104,182 17
54,420,876 6
483,459 1
0
0
5
0
5
£65,836,660 4 10
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Australian
Commonwealth Notes and
Cash at Bankers . . . . £8,732,101 17 1
Money at short call . . . . 1,360,000 0 0
Short dated British Treasury
Bills 2,080,000 0 0
British and Australian Gov-
ernment Stocks and other
Securities 7,170,256 3 10
Bills Receivable in London
and Remittances in transit 4,493,336 19 2
Notes and Bills of other banks 484,1 88 1 5 0
Bills discounted and other debts due to the Bank
Bank premises, furniture, etc.
£24,319,883 15 1
40,173,312 2 11
1,343,464 6 10
£65,836,660 4 10
PROFIT AND LOSS
To Interim Dividend for the Half-year ended 31st
December, 1928, at the rate of 10 per cent, per
annum, paid on 25th January, 1929 £236,950 12 6
Balance proposed to be dealt with as follows:
To Dividend for past Half-year at the
rate of 1 0 per cent, per annum. . £236,950 12 6
~ Reserve Fund 125,000 0 0
„ Bank Premises Account . . . . 50,000 0 0
„ Balance carried forward .. .. 71,508 8 11
483,459 1 5
£720,409 13 11
By Amount brought forward from last year . . . . £65,215 3 8
~ Profit for Year ended 30th June, 1929 . . . . 655,194 10 3
£720,409 13 1 1
GEORGE J. COHEN, Chairman.
J. R. DRYHURST, General Manager.
We hereby certify that we have examined the bills, compared the balances and counted the cash in the Head Office of The Commercial Banking
Company of Sydney, Limited, and have compared the returns of the Branches, and have found the same as specified in the foregoing Balance Sheet.
Sydney, 17th July, 1929.
JUSTIN J. BRENAN
F. W. HIXSON
Auditors.


The “Explosives” House
Explosives and Accessories of All Kinds
Supplied at Lowest Prices.
Manufacturers of
RENDROCK,
The Safest, Cheapest and Most Effective High Explosive Known.
Can be forwarded by Rail or Steamer at ordinary rates of freight.
Blasting Machines, Steel Rock Drills.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED, 1042 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney
w
Many concerns ' are falling by
the way, broken by high costs
and burdensome taxes.
Here’s a big co. that will
not pay even its unsecured
creditors 5/- in'the £. The
pref. shareholders will lose
every penny.
Are you a shareholder? Have
you an insurance policy? Do
companies owe you money ?
Don’t lose your capital. Keep
yourself informed.
The leading Australian
authority on all these matters
is •
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
AUGUST NUMBER NOW ON SALE
SINGLE COPY, 2/- ; PER ANNUM,
22/6. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Otiices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
ŵ
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety i-uae
Detonators
Cartridges
Hadfields
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS— COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadlields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and l Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W,
Foundries J Bassendean, Berth, W.A.
Branch l 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Vic.
Office ) T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
new product, manufactured stone for
facing buildings. It was expected that
last year's results would benefit from
this, but owing to difficulties in the building
trade, due to industrial disturbance in the
timber industry, anticipations were not real-
ised. The board wrote the year’s net profit
£7B short of the 1928 figure, and for the
second time in succession reserves were
tapped to pay the 10 p.c. div. Of course
everything may not be on view, but there is
nothing to indicate that the position is much
better than is admitted.
This comparison of balance-sheet figures
reflects the changes that have taken place
since 3920: —
1920. 1925. 1929.
Machinery, plant, etc... £54,000 £IO,OOO £35,000
Stocks 35,085 18,682 1,133
Book debts, shares in
other cos. anil cash. . 267,322 125,879 126,582
£359,407 £154,561 £162,715
Liabilities . . .. 129,858 4,934 14,094
Net assets .. .. £229,549 £149,627 £148,621
The position is obscured by lumping shares
in other cos. with book debts, etc. A reduc-
tion of £11,861 in this blanket item last
year enabled the board to clip £10,772 off
the amount coining to trade creditors
(£14,094). 'The book value of the fixed
assets, which are reported in good order, has
remained unchanged for the last three years.
After allowing for the inner reserves dis-
closed in 1923 and the return of capital in
the following year, the improvement in the
net-asset position since 1920 amounts to only
£4070. Much, of course, depends upon the
figure at which the Kandos Co.’s scrip
appears in Goodlet and Smith’s books.
For the pound shares, which were priced
at 28s. 3d. a year ago, the market now pays
275. 6d. After allowing for the final div.
the return at that figure is 7} p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis.. The net tangible backing
amounts to 265, per share, of which plant
represents 6s. 5d.; stocks, 2d.; shares, book
debts, etc., 235. The lot less 2s. 7d. a share
coming to creditors and Is. final div.
Equity Trustees Cos. (Melb).
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1918.. 8,730 14 p.e. = 7,000 1,730 25,247
1919.. 9,260 14 „ „ 7,000 2,260 27,507
1920. . 11,898 16 „ „ 8,000 3,898 31,405
1921.. 9,117 14 „ „ 7,000 2,117 33,522
1922.. 13,640 164 „ „ 8,250 5,390 38,912
1923.. 13,769 19 „ „ 9,500 4,269 43,181
1924.. 15,289 19 „ „ 9,500 5,789 48,970
Transferred to capital, £25,000.. 23,970
1925.. 14,145 14 p.c. = 10,500 3,645 27,615
1926.. 13,355 16 „ „ 12,000 1,355 28,970
1927.. 19,123 18 „ „ 13,500 5,62.3 34,593
1928.. 15,801 18 „ „ 13,500 2,301 36,894
Profit on sale of freehold, £23,613.. 60,507
1929.. 24,224 18 p.c. = 13,500 10,724 71,231
This co.’s plate was piled higher than ever
last year. The directors do not disclose the
volume of trusts on the books, but the follow-
ing comparison of figures from the p. and 1.
account makes plain that the business has
been stepping along briskly:—
Earnings. Exes.
1910.. £17,131 £11,328
1920.. 26,673 14,775
1924.. 36,105 20,816
1925.. 37,467 23,322
1926.. 39,086 25,731
1927.. 47,091 27,968
1928.. 46,963 31,162
1929.. 54,856 30,632
Earnings, which have more than doubled
since 1920, sprang £7893 last year, reaching
the record figure of £54,856. And it actu-
ally cost £530 less than in the previous term
to handle the bigger business. Thus the net
result benefited by no less than £8423,
mounting to a juicy 32.3 p.c. on paid capital
compared with 21, 25.5, 17.8 and 18.8 p.c.
back to 1925, when the last £25,000 of bonus
scrip was handed out. That gift and a
similar one seven years earlier advanced paid
capital to its present figure (£75,000). Thus
old shareholders have had a royal time; the
18 p.p. div. handed out in each of the last
three years is equal to 54 p.c. on capital as
it stood at the close of accounts in 1916.
So rapidly has the business expanded of
late that the old premises became inadequate,
and new ones had to be secured. During the
last term the management bought a pro-
perty with a 66ft. frontage to the Queen-
street end of Bourke-street, running through
to Little Bourke, for £52,500, of which
£46,500 was still to be paid when the books
were ruled off. The intention is to put up
a four-storeyed building on the new site at
an estimated cost of £75,000. The co. will
use the ground and first floors and part of
the basement, and let the balance. The
co.’s. old Queen-street property was sold for
£40,000, and there was £39,500 of the money
still to come in at .Tune 30. The profit on
the deal amounted to £23,613, which, to-
gether with the year’s surplus earnings,
lifted reserves to within £3769 of paid
capital. Office equipment is unchanged at
£964. Public securities, etc. (£55,376) were
drawn upon for £4IOO, and sundry debtors
for commissions, etc. (£56,039) were £13,988
heavier. The overdraft amounted to only
£4049.
The market, which expects that share-
holders will be called upon to assist in con-
nectiou with the new building, pays 38s. for
the 50s. shares paid to 10s. After allowing
for the final div. and bonus the immediate
return at that price is 5 p.c. on an 18 p.c.
div. basis. The backing amounted to 19s. fid.
per share in net tangibles.
Australian Whaling Cos., Ltd.
This is a Sydney float. The idea is to
take over and work the shore whaling station
at Norwegian Bay, Westralia, buy five
chasers and a factory ship, extend operations
to the Antarctic, and later build a second
shore station at Jervis Bay (N.S.W.).
Nominal capital is £750,000 in £1 shares, of
which 415,000 are offered. The vendors,
the Australian Whaling and Development
Syndicate, Ltd., take £120,000- —£50,000 cash
and £70,000 in paids—for plant, etc., said
to be worth £110,150 as a going concern,
and for rights and services, including a 14
years’ whaling license from the Westralian
Government. Also a sum of £9OOO is to be
spent by the vendor on preliminary exes.
The prospectus says the capital outlay
necessary to operate the Westralian station
is £190,000. This includes £IIO,OOO for five
chasers, stored and equipped, £4OOO for reno-
vations and improvements to the plant, the
vendor’s cash consideration, and £26,000
for working capital, etc. And, of course,
there is the £70,000 to be paid in scrip,
making a total of £260,000. A factory ship,
Avhich will enable operations to be extended
to the Antarctic when the season on the
Westralian Coast closes, is expected to cost
£175,000. On the basis of the present issue,
that leaves £50.000 for working capital.
Revenue is figured at £560,000 p.a., and
exes., including depreciation but before
making provision for taxation, are expected
to take £268,800 of that, leaving a profit of
£291,200. That is more than 60 p.c. on a paid
capital of £485,000. Estimates are based on
whale oil at £3l per ton and catches yielding
6417 tons oil on the Westralian coast and
11,613 tons in the Antarctic. With four
chasers last year's catch at Norwegian Bay
(1036 whales) realised about £186,000; but
how much of that was profit is not men-
tioned, nor are details given as to the nature
of the assets to be. taken ovei\ Whether
the profits counted upon can be realised
will partly depend upon whether the factory
and other ships can be bought and fitted out
at the figures stated, partly upon whether
the provision for depreciation, repairs and
renewals, etc., will be adequate, and, of
course, partly upon the efficiency of the
management and the frequency of the right
whale.
The whaling industry in the Antarctic has
long been in the hands of Norwegian cos.,
which have gathered some fine harvests. For
the 1927-28 season four of their factory ships
are said to have returned with an average
of 9550 tons of oil each, the average net
profit being £178,650, or £lB 14s. per ton.
The Australian co. counts on netting £l6
3s. per ton.
On the board are Arthur Cocks, a solid
business man, and D. G. Stead, probably
N.S.W.’s best known fisheries expert. The
scrip is to be listed.
The South-Western Queensland and New
England Fresh Meat Supply Cos. informs the
“Wild Cat” that it will take over 2000 acres
for use as resting and fattening paddocks,
etc., at Wallangarfa, on the railway-line
at the Queensland border.
* * # *
N. S. Wales North Coast dairymen are
making co-operative history by the rapid
expansion of their Norco Co-operative Ltd.
In 1927 it had a turnover of more than
£1,750,000, and has recently absorbed four
other co-op. cos., which wi'll lift the total
above £2,000,00<). The directors of the
Alstonville Society have decided to recom-
mend shareholders to accept Norco’s amalga-
mation terms in September next, and Norco
will then control 20 factories between the
Richmond River and the Queensland border.
*
Broken Hill’s water supply has always
been interesting. The place being too far
away for its howls to be heard in Sydney,
the Government gave a private co. the right
to build a dam and reticulate the town —on
a limited franchise: 21 years or so. Natur-
ally the co. constructed works, etc., calcu-
lated to last 21 years, and made no renewals
worth mentioning. Before the time was up
there was therefore a shriek for a Govern-
ment supply; and the Umberumberka works
were built, but on a scale which suggested
that the Government still had at the back of
its head the idea that the place couldn’t
last much longer. But Broken Hill has more
ore in sight to-day than it ever had before
the war, though to make a profit out of it
things will have to be done differently; so
Stephens Creek is to be re-glanded.
Hitherto a trifle of silt has been removed,
not so much because the silt was in the way
as because there were unemployed who had
to be given something that looked like a job.
This business is to be seriously attacked, a
duplicate main laid, and the mines will sup-
ply power for anew electric pump. State
and mines are to share cost, but if details
luive been settled nobody has mentioned
them. There is always Mr. Bruce to fall
back on if the two ends can’t be made to
meet.
* * * * .
They move at Whyalla, where the B.H.P.
Cos. ships its ironstone to Newcastle and
other parts of the world. The s.s. Pareora,
8425 tons register, Captain Joe Evans,
arrived from Fremantle (W.A.) on Wednes-
day afternoon, July 17, pulled into the jetty
on Thursday and sailed on Saturday with
10,000 tons manganese-iron ore for Rotter-
dam.
*J: $ $ , $
Tanami, in the far nor’-west of Australia,
is to be tested with London capital. The
big lodes are promised a thorough overhaul.
Gold recovered in the. dolly-pots of the
Laurie Brothers and their mates, by dry
blowing and by crushings in the co.’s mill
before the water gave out, indicate very pay-
able ore. Every geologist who has reported
on the mine has recommended it. The pro-
perty may be worked for two years by the
London option co., which then gets a
quarter fully paids in anew co. to be formed.
Allan Davidson, who found the field in 1890,
has joined the London board. Other direc-
tors are Lord Apsley and George Belling-
ham, the latter a Coolgardie pioneer. Tan-
ami has 160 acres.
* * * *
“Melilla” : The Moore Government (Q.) is
very slow in getting the inquiry into the
Chillagoe-Mungana affair going. Moore has
said there, will be an inquiry, but he cannot
say when. Yet it was undoubtedly the pro-
mise of a thorough investigation which
helped to win Northern seats for him. May-
be, however, the Government is considering
whether there isn’t room for inquiry into
mining matters outside Mungana and Chil-
lagoe. Whispers that you can’t help hear-
ing are not doing- the reputation of some
of the members of the late Government any
good.
* * ?: *
Tin dredging behind Cairns (N.Q.)
doesn’t look very bright. The Return
Creek Co.’s dredge, at Mt. Garnet, has had
varied luck. There is tin in the creek, but
there are also boulders, snags and clay.
None of the other dredging cos.- are pro-
ducing yet.
The Palmer River co. is transporting its
dredging plant to the field, and work is
expected to commence about October, This
venture has chances, though there has been
great delay in getting a move on.
* * * *
New Guinea Gold and Osmiridium has
increased its capital by the creation of
160,000 “B” shares of 2s. 6d. .Of these,
80,000 are offered, one for one. The new scrip
will not participate in profits from the
co.’s existing properties, but will rank with
the original 80,000 half-crown shares in the
distribution of gains from any properties
acquired in the future. Some time ago it
Was announced that N. G. Gold and Osmiri-
dium was to be absorbed by New Guinea
Goldfield# Exploration, on the basis of seven
of the latter co’s. shares for every eight of
its own. There have been rumors of changes
and permutations since then, and at present
shareholders do not know exactly where they
stand.
* * * *
London interests in Westralian mining
appears to be increasing. Capital is said to
be assured for development of the Wilga
coal deposits in the South, the re-opening of
the old Augusta mine at Laverton, prospect-
ing for minerals in the Far North, and re-
viving old mines such as the Lancefield, and
possibly the Yuanmi. A party of old Gool-
gardieites who have lived in London for
some time also talk of trying the Dunns-
ville district, where the Wealth of Nation
bonanza was found. After producing about
£IO,OOO worth of gold this show suddenly
petered out.
* * * *
Gold won by Sons of Gwalia (WvA.)
during 1928 was worth £130,294. Increased
tonnage treated and a larger percentage of
oxidised ore handled enabled 3s. a ton to be
chipped off costs; but this saving was more
than offset by the lower grade of the ore, and
the year’s operations showed a loss of
£4341. At the annual roll-up of shareholders
in London last month chairman Moreing
claimed that results at depth were gratify-
ing, and justified the resumption of shaft-
sinking. He bitterly complained at the
action of the Miners’ Union in insisting on
six-hour shifts because the thermometer ex-
ceeded 76deg. wet bulb. One consequence
of the Union’s action h-as been the cessation
of development work at the lower levels.
* * * *
Ivan Gold Mines (W.A.), an Adelaide
controlled concern, recently obtained an
ounce crushing from its option claim on
the resuscitated Westonia field. The lode is
promising, but development might be pushed
ahead a bit faster. Les Trois and Princess
Royal, in the same locality, are due to
crush parcels, and a satisfactory yield is ex-
pected. The shoots in these leases appear
to lack the indicated permanency and length
of the one in Ivans.
ẁ


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
Australian Whaling Company Ltd
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £750,000
THE famous Antarctic Explorer
Sir DOUGLAS MAWSON,
writing in the Sydney “Sun” of 9th
December, 1928, speaks in glow-
ing terms of the whaling industry
in the Southern Seas, and proceeds:
“A number of companies have a gross
return of £500,000 a year and pay
dividends from J/0 per cent, to 100 per
cent."
He further says that:—
“Almost at the doors of Australia
lie mighty stretches of sea teeming
with wealth. It is for Australians to
develop this heritage for Australians
yet to be.”
(Divided into 750,000 Shares of £1 Each)
CAPITAL OFFERED FOR PUBLIC SUBSCRIPTION
415,000 Shares of £1 each, payable 2/6 per share on
application, 2/6 per share on allotment, and
the balance in calls of 2/6 per share at
intervals of not less than one month . . . . £415,000
CAPITAL TO BE ISSUED AS FULLY PAID
70,000 Shares of £1 each, with deferred rights, will
be issued as fully paid up to the Vendors,
as hereinafter mentioned 70,000
485,000 Total Capital in process of issue . . £485,000
Capital reserved for future issue:—
265,000 Shares of £1 each £265,000
750,000
£750,000
Sydney Morning Herald, 2nd March, 1929.
A RICH HAUL
WHALER RETURNS.
Wellington ( N.Z.),
Thursday.
Laden with J/9,000 barrels of oil,
valued approximately at £2l/5,000
and representing a catch of 51/3
whales, the Norwegian whaler Sir
James Clark Ross has arrived at
Paterson’s Inlet, Steivart Island. The
officers report that the earlier stages
of the season were unpromising, but
later rich whaling grounds were struck,
and the crew worked in 12-hour
watches day and night in order to
cope vvith the large catches.
The vessel departs for American ports
on Tuesday.
Application will be made in due course to have the shares listed on the Stock Exchanges of all Capital Cities in the Commonwealth and the Dominion of New
Zealand. Subscribers may pay for their shares in full on allotment or may pay the balance in advance of Calls in full or m part at any time.
All shares from date of allotment will rank for dividend proportionately to the amount paid up thereon, subject to certain restrictions on Vendor s shares.
If the number of shares allotted is less than those applied for excess application money will be allocated to the amount payable on allotment. The balance, if
any, will be returned in full.
Application money will be returned in full if no allotment is made.
DIRECTORS:
Sir ARTHUR A. C. COCKS, K.8.E.,
Company ] Mrector, 63 York Street, Sydney.
LESLIE HAROLD HINKS, DAVID G. STEAD,
Engineer, International Fisheries Expert,
19 O’Connell Street, Sydney. 16 Barrack Street, Sydney.
The Shareholders will have the right to elect up to four additional Directors
on the Company going to allotment.
BANKERS:
NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LTD., 342-346 George Street, Sydney.
SOLICITORS:
CAMPBELL & CAMPBELL, Solicitors, 66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
AUDITORS:
STARKEY & STARKEY. Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
16 Barrack Street, Sydney.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE:
A. G. NOBLE, A.C.A. (Aust.), First Floor, Barrack House,
16 Barrack Street, Sydney.
OBJECTS OF THE AUSTRALIAN WHALING
COMPANY, LIMITED.
The objects of the Company, which are set out in full
detail in the Memorandum of Association, are to engage (in
co-operation with existing Companies or otherwise) in the
business of whaling, and in other matters incidental to the
industry, including:—-
(1) Pelagic (open sea) Whaling in Antarctic and Southern
Waters.
(2) Acquisition and operation of the Norwegian Bay (Point
Cloates) Shore Whaling Station on the North-West
Coast of Australia.
(3) Construction and operation of a shore station on the
South Coast of New South Wales.
In pursuance thereof to enter into an agreement with the
vendors to acquire the Assets and Plant mentioned in object
No. 2, and the results of their past investigations; their
right, title and interest in an agreement made with Mr.
David G. Stead; and their rights and services in connection
with the acquisition of certain lands on the South Coast of
New South Wales.
An examination of accompanying data will show very clearly:
(1) The GREAT ATTRACTIVENESS of the whaling
industry from an INVESTOR’S STANDPOIN T.
(2) That the industry is paying IMMENSE DIVIDENDS to
Companies 14,000 miles away from the scene of
operations; and
(3) That Australia, from all points of view, is exceedingly
well situated as the headquarters of a whaling
company.
FINANCIAL PROPOSALS OF THE
COMPANY.
The Company proposes to acquire immediately five Whaling
Gunboats or Chasers and commence operations as early as
possible at the Norwegian Bay Whaling Station, on the North-
west Coast of Australia, WHICH HAS BEEN 'SUCCESSFULLY
OPERATED FOR SEVERAL YEARS PAST.
Simultaneously the necessary steps will be taken to secure
a suitable vessel, of about 12,000 to 14,000 tons oil capacity
(which is the average size of the largest boats engaged, and
would provide for a capacity of up to 80,000 barrels of oil),
for conversion into a Whaling Factory ship. This will be
fully equipped in the most modern manner as a “Mother Ship,”
and utilised with chasers for whaling in the Antarctic and
Southern Seas at the close of the season in Australian Coastal
Waters.
Immediately upon the construction and establishment of
the Shore Station on the South Coast of New South Wales,
the fleet of chasers will be suitably increased to meet the
extended operations.
UTILISATION OF CAPITAL SUBSCRIBED.
After careful consideration the estimated cost of the purchase
and fitting out of a suitable fleet of vessels and of other capital
outlay has been assessed as follows: —
1— Estimated Capital outlay by Company in order to
operate the Norwegian Bay (Point Cloates) Station:—
Five Whaling Gunboats or Chasers
completely stored and equipped
■; ready for Whaling .. . . ..£llO,OOO 0 0
Cash to be paid over an extended period
to the Australian Whaling
Development Syndicate, Ltd., as
part consideration for the purchase
of the Norwegian Bay Shore
Whaling Station and Plant as per
inventory and agreements . . 50,000 0 0
Renovations and Improvements to such
Plant 4,000 0 0
Part Working Capital, establishment,
expenses, etc. .. .. .. 26,000 0 0
£190,000 0 0
2 Additional outlay upon extension of operations to
Antarctic and Southern Waters:—
Estimated Cost of one (1) Floating
Factory Ship, including cost of
acquisition and fitting out as a
Whaling Factory and “Mother”
Ship for chasers .. .. .. £175,000 0 0
Part Working Capital and Establish-
ment, etc. .. . . .. .. 60,000 0 0
£225,000 0 0
The total Capital required on the above
basis for the combined schemes of
Norwegian Bay, Western Australia
and the Antarctic aggregates .. £415,000 0 0
which amount is now offered for public subscription on
the conditions set out.
Subsequently a site on the Eastern Coast of New South
Wales will be equipped as a fitting-out and laying-up station
and as a complete Shore Whaling Station handling all products,
including oil, fertilisers, skins, whalebone, spermacctti, meat-
meal, etc.
ESTIMATED PROFITS
I.—NORWEGIAN BAY, WESTERN
AUSTRALIA.
After careful. calculation, following upon a survey
of all available data in connection with the costs of
working the Norwegian Bay Whaling Station, the
following profits are estimated therefrom:—
Revenue:—
Based upon the actual catches for
several years past and allowing for
seasonal variations, it is estimated
that five gunboats or chasers,
during the season from June to
October, would catch at least 1100
whales, yielding approximately
6417 tons of oil. Valued at
present market price, this amounts
to .. . . £198,927 0 0
(In 1928 four chasers caught 1036 whales.)
It may, therefore, be assumed that
with by-products a gross Revenue
may be estimated of at least ..£200,000 O' 0
Deduct therefrom Running Expenses:—
Wages, Lay (or Bonus) for Shore
Station and Chasers, Stores and
Providoring, Fuel, Repairs and
Maintenance of Vessels and
Station, Depreciation, etc., Trans-
port, Loading and Discharge of
Oil and Guano, Office and
General Overhead .. .. .. 93,000 0 0
Leaving an Estimated Profit (subject «
to Income Taxes) of .. ..£107,000 0 0
Immediately upon the close of the season in Aus-
tralian Waters (say, June to October) the Chasers would
be utilised, with the Factory Ship, in a voyage to the
Antarctic and Southern Seas for the whaling season
there, from October to February. Certain expenditure
has been already provided on an annual basis in the
foregoing statement, and this has been taken into
account when estimating the result anticipated from
the southern whaling.
2.—ANTARCTIC AND SOUTHERN
SEAS.
Based on the actual catches of
whales during the past few years
by Norwegian vessels, which, each
year, have returned with full
cargoes within the season from
. Antarctic Waters, it is estimated
that the value of one cargo only
of at least 70,000 barrels of oil. at
present market price of £3l per
ton would yield approximately.. £360,000 0 0
Deduct therefrom: —
Estimated Running Costs and Work-
ing Expenses, including Wages,
Lay (or Bonus), Providoring,
Coal, Fuel, Oil Stores, Repairs
and Renewals, Depreciation of
Ships, Insurance of Ships and
Cargo, General Overhead, etc. .. 175,800 0 0
Leaving an Estimated Profit (subject
to Income Taxes) from one cargo
only from Southern Waters of .. £184,200 0 0
The Estimated Profit, therefore, from whaling in
these two areas amounts to £291,200 (subject to
Income Taxes).
These statements do not include any estimated
additional Profit from Whaling on the Eastern Coast
of Australia. Upon the construction of the Eastern
Shore Station the number of Chasers will be adequately
increased and utilised there during the months of June
to October, while the remaining Chasers operate at
Norwegian Bay Shore Station. Western Australia.
A conservative estimate, based on actual trials off
the Eastern Coast, shows that a further Profit to the
extent of approximately £BO,OOO should result in oil
alone from operations on the South Coast of New South
Wales.
GENERAL MANAGEMENT.
All matters of vital importance, such as the purchasing,
outfittings of the ships, etc., will receive the utmost considera-
tion, and will only be placed in the control of those who, by
their experience, are the most capable of handling them.
Regarding general labor to be employed, the Company
would at the outset follow closely upon the lines of other
ventures in these respects, employing experienced Norwegians
in the key positions, where long experience is requisite, thus
proceeding upon definitely proved lines.
The following tabulation gives the results of the operations
of four whaling Companies taken from the official figures of the
Norwegian Stock Exchange:—
Profits Distributed, Average
Name of Company. ’23. ’24. '25. ’26. per Year.
Compania Ballenera Espanola.. 24 46 56 56 45.50 p.c.p.a.
Whaling Co., “Sydhavet” . . 25 25 30 15 23.75 „ „
Whaling Co., “Toensberg Hval” 40 50 90 50 57.50 ~ „
Whaling Co., “Vestfold” .. 20 30 90 40 45 „ „
This shows an average rate of dividend over the four years
of approximately 45 per cent, per annum, which in itself should
be sufficiently convincing evidence of the remunerative nature
of the business. These profits are founded upon much smaller
catches than those obtained by the three vessels previously
mentioned.
VENDOR’S CONSIDERATION.
The Vendor Company will sell and transfer to the Australian
Whaling Company, Limited, plant, fittings, and equipment of
the Norwegian Bay Whaling Station, situated near Point Cloates
on the North-west Coast of Australia, as per certified schedules
valued as a going concern at £110,150, together with an
exclusive Whaling license and lease for a period of fourteen
years from January 1, 1930, and expend a sum up to £9OOO
in cash towards the flotation and preliminary expenses of the
Australian Whaling Company, Limited. They will also transfer
the results of investigations for over twelve months and the
rights in connection with the acquisition of certain land on
the South Coast of New South Wales.
The consideration of these assets, etc., is the payment to
the Australian Whaling Development Syndicate, Ltd., of £50,000
in cash, payable over an extended period, and on the terms
and conditions set forth in the agreement, and the issue of
70,000 shares of £1 issued as fully paid up. Certain restric-
tions have been placed on these shares as a protection to the
capital publicly subscribed in the Australian Whaling Company,
Limited.
COMMENCEMENT OF OPERATIONS.
Much of the preliminary work has been done by those
connected with the Company, with a view to commencing
Australian operations at the Norwegian Bay Station, North-
west Australia, next season, thence \yorking _ southward into
Antarctic waters at the end of the Australian season, and
in the following year undertaking operations in the vicinity
of Jervis Bay, New South Wales.
MINIMUM SUBSCRIPTION AND ALLOTMENT.
It is the opinion of those connected with the Company
that operations at Norwegian Bay should not be undertaken
until at least £75,000 is subscribed, and the Directors, therefore,
will not proceed to allotment until 75,000 shares have been
applied for.
In the event of the Company proceeding to allotment on
75,000 shares only £30,000 of the Vendors’ consideration
will be paid over a period of not less than eighteen months;
thereafter the balance will be paid, having due regard to the
receipts of capital, so that the operations of the Company
are not unduly impaired by the alienation of working capital.
FILL IN, CUT OUT, POST TO-DAY
APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
AUSTRALIAN WHALING
COMPANY LTD.
(Registered under the Companies Act, N.S.W., 1899.)
To the Director,
Australian Whaling Company, Limited.
1 request you to allot me Shares
of £1 each in terms of the Company’s Prospectus dated
July 15, One thousand nine hundred and twenty-nine.
I enclose herewith the sum of (£....)
being Tivo shillings and sixpence per Share on application.
I undertake to pay a further sum of Two shillings
and sixpence per Share cm allotment and to pay the
balance on the Shares in accordance with the terms of
the Prospectus.
1 agree to accept the said Shares or any smaller
number that may be allotted to me, and I authorise you
to' register me as the holder of the Shares so allotted
to me.
NAME IN FULL
(State whether Mr., Mrs. or Miss.)
ADDRESS IN FULL
(Name of Bank.)
OCCUPATION
SIGNATURE
Dated the day of One
thousand nine hundred and twenty-nine.
Application to be lodged at the office of A. G.
Noble, A.C.A. (AustFirst Floor, 16 Barrack Street,
Sydney.
All cheques to be made out in the name of the
Company and crossed “Not Negotiable.”


The Equity Trustees, Executors,
and Agency Company Limited
85 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Board of Directors:
Hon. DONALD MACKINNON, Chairman;
Sir EDWARD F. MITCHELL, K.C.M.G., K.C., Vice-Chairman; IVOR EVANS, Esq. ;
Hon. J. G. LATHAM, C.M.G., K.C., M.P.; Sir STEPHEN MORELL, K.B. ; ALLAN SPOWERS, Esq.
Report of the Directors.
For
Presentation to the Seventy-fourth Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, to he held on
Thursday, the Bth day of August, 1929.
The Directors have much pleasure in submitting their Seventy-fourth Report.
The accompanying Balance-sheet shows a net Profit for the year ended 30th June last of £24,324
3s. 2d., from which the Interim Dividend of 8 per cent., paid in February last, amounting to £6OOO,
has to be deducted, leaving a balance of £18,324 3s. 2d., which it is proposed to apply as follows:
To further Dividend of 8 per cent. .. .. .. .. .. .. £6,000 0 0
To bonus of 2 per cent. . . . . . . . . . . .. .. .. 1 ,500 0 0
To writing 10 per cent, off office
To balance
Balance (as above) . .
Forward from last year
Transfer to Reserve Fund (making
Balance to be carried forward
Reserve Fund (as above)
Transfer Surplus on Sale of Queen Street property
Total Reserve
furniture account (say)
100 0 0
10,724 3 2
't £36,000)
£36,000 0 0
23,612 10 8
£59,612 10 8
Your Directors regret to have to report the loss during the year of two of their colleagues Mr.
Albert S. Austin reluctantly retired, owing to his having to reside most of the year out of the State.
Mr. J. J. Falconer died on the 21st November last. He was a Director of this Company for nearly ten
years, during the whole of which time he took the closest and most devoted interest in its success
and well-being.
Shareholders will be pleased to be informed that Mr. Allan Spowers and Sir Stephen Morell, K. 8.,
have respectively accepted—and been appointed to the vacant seats. In accordance with the Articles
of Association, both these gentlemen retire at this meeting, but are eligible and offer themselves for
re-election.
Owing to the rapid increase in the Company’s business the accommodation for the staff in its present
premises is now entirely inadequate, and it has become imperative to make some provision, not only
for present requirements, but for future expansion. Your Directors, after careful consideration, have
purchased a property in Bourke Street (between Queen and William Streets), with a frontage to Bourke
Street of 66 feet, running through to Little Bourke Street, for the sum of £52,500, on which it is
proposed to erect a building containing basement, ground floor, and four upper floors, at an estimated
cost of about £75,000. This building will occupy land to a depth of 173 feet. For the present only
part of the basement, the ground .and first floors will be required by the Company, the other three
floors being available for letting off to tenants, the- rents from which will help materially towards
paying the interest on the investment, it is believed that this building will provide ample accommodation
for many years to come.
Shareholders will be glad to see by the accounts that your Directors have sold its Queen Street
property for £40,000, which shows a profit of over £23,600, which it is proposed to transfer to Reserve.
As appears by the accounts, the Directors have paid the members of the staff the usual 10 per cent.
bonus.
By order of the Board,
JOEL FOX, Manager.
Companies Act 1915.
Balance Sheet at June 30, 1929.
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital
200,000 shares of
£2/10/- each ..£500,000 0 0
Less unissued .. 3 25,000 0 0
£375,000 0 0
Less uncalled . . 300,000 0 0
Capital paid up in
money .. .. : £75,000 0 0
Melbourne Hebrew Congregation—
Balance purchase money, Bourke
Street property .. . . .. 46,500 0 0
E., S. and A. Bank —Overdraft . . 4,040 5 2
Reserve Fund .. .. .. ... 32,000 0 0
Profit and Loss Account .. .. 46,830 17 10
£204,380 3 0
Overdrawn Trust Accounts with
Bankers, secured by the assets of
the respective Trusts (see contra) £107,513 2 0
ASSETS.
Guarantee Fund held by the Trea-
surer of Victoria
Commonwealth Gov-
ernment Stock,
£19,100 at cost .. £18,033 17 6
Victorian Government
4 per cent. Stock,
£llOO, at cost .. 869 0 0
Victorian Government
5J per cent. Stock,
£BOO, at cost . . 800 0 0
Melbourne and Metro-
politan Hoard of
Works, 31 per cent.
Stock, £25,400, at
cost .. .. 23,773 10 0
Melbourne and Metro-
politan Board of
Works 51 per cent.
Stock, £lOOO, at
cost .. ..- 1,000 0 0
£lO,OOO 0 0
Real Estate, Bourke Street property,
at cost
The London Assurance —Balance pur-
chase money for Queen Street
premises
Sundry Debtors for Commissions,
etc. (after providing for bad and
doubtful debts)
Fixtures, Fittings and Office Furni-
ture (after providing for deprecia-
tion) . .
£204,380
Moneys advanced to Trust Estates,
for which assets of the Trusts are
held by the company (see contra) £107,513
45,376 7 6
52,500 0 0
’ 39,500 0 0
56,039 9
Profit and Loss Account for the Year Ended June 30, 1929.
To directors and auditors’ fees,
salaries, advertising, stationery,
office and other expenses .. .. £26,309 4 11
To Federal and State income-taxes
for year . . .. .. . . 2,268 13 6
To bonus to staff .. .. 1,953 ll 6
To balance, net profit for year, carried
down .. . . .. . ■ • • 24,324 3 2
£54,855 13 1
1929 —Ist February.
To interim dividend of 8 per cent... £6,000 0 0
1929. —30th June.
To balance .. .. .. .. 46,830 17 10
£52,830 17 10
By commissions, rents, interest, on
investments, etc., after providing
for contingencies .. .. .. £54,855 13 1
£54,855 13 1
£4,894 4 . 0
By surplus on sale of Queen Street
premises .. .. .. 23,612 10 8
1929 —30th June.
By net profit for year, as above . . 24,324 3 2
£52,830 17 10
Certificate by Directors.
We, Edward Pancourt Mitchell and Ivor Evans, being directors of The Equity Trustees, Executors,
and Agency Company, Limited, do hereby certify that in our opinion the above balance-sheet is correct,
and is drawn up so as to exhibit a correct view of the state of the company’s affairs.
Dated at Melbourne this 25th day of July, 1929.
ẁ
ẃ
Auditors’ Report.
We report that in onr opinion the accompanying balance-sheet, is properly drawn up, and exhibits
a true and correct view of flic state of the company's affairs, according to the best of our information
and the explanations given to us, and as shown by the books of ihe company. We have obtained all
the information and explanations we have required.
Melbourne, 2.lth July, 1929.
P. L. SMYTH (
W. F. COLES S
Chartered Accountants
(Australia).
TIMBER
A SPECIAL GENERAL MEETING
OF THE TIMBER MERCHANTS AND BOX- AND
CASE-MANUFACTURERS UPHOLDING THE
LAW WAS HELD ON JULY 29.
AT THAT MEETING IT WAS
UNANIMOUSLY DECIDED THAT
AS THE YARDS ARE NOW RE-
STAFFED, THE STRIKE, AS FAR
AS THE MERCHANTS ARE CON-
CERNED, IS OVER, AND THEY
ARE NOW IN A POSITION TO
HANDLE THE BUSINESS OFFER-
ING.
THE OFFER OF THE MERCHANTS OF A
CONFERENCE AUTOMATICALLY LAPSES.
AUTHORISED BY F. H. CORKE.
605-609 CULWULLA CHAMBERS. SYDNEY.
w
COUGHS
and
COLDS
by taking HEENZO.
You’re getting ’flu if your head aches,
your eyes run and redden, your back
pains you, and your throat is sore.
ŵ
Sir Harry Lauder writes: —“1
tried HEENZO and found it
good.”
The first thing to do is to go STRAIGHT TO BED. It’s sheer
madness to try and fight it off—you might win—but the
chances are you will finish up with pneumonia. So be sensible
—go straight to bed, keep the bowels open, and every four
hours take half a teaspoonful of Concentrated Heenzo
(straight from original bottle) in half a wineglassful of hot
water. To ease coughing use Heenzo in its made-up form. To
guard against a relapse do not leave bed until 24 hours after
the temperature has abated. Clinical records proved the
efficacy of Heenzo during the big ’flu epidemic.
HEENZO
M
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
An Ideal Winter Home—The Most Sheltered Spot on the Harbor, with Private Beach and
Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds
and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes’ trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines).


PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons .
Men experience a sense of secu-
rity in buying at PEAPES,
because they know that every
article sponsored by PEAPES,
from shoes to bats, from suits
to travel requisites, is invested
with better QUALITY, better
VALUE, better SERVICE and
sold at a definite, low price the
whole year through.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
-*2S
.'O/.
m
mi
rrHEGREYS;
SIZEjJWO
I w4
SILKCUT VIRGINIA
□RAP
EYS
They Satisfy
because they are made from 100
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a “GREYS.
£0) for CIGARETTES £<S> for £/&>
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights”
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20.
52 MacleaySt.
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT
(Located within the City Boundary, seven
minutes from G.P.O.')
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 150 Rooms, is now open and
features Two-, Three- and Four-
room Suites, each with Bath; also
Single and Double Rooms. Central
Heating, Running Water and
’Phones installed in each room.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views.
Weekly inclusive tariff,
from £5/5/-
Daily, from £1
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines); Tele-
graphic address: “Fifmac, ’ Syd-
ney.
ABORIGINALITIES
“V.H.R.”: Two anglers were skiting at
the pub outside Hobart about the size of
their best catches, when Bill the Bullocky
chipped in. “I was bullock-driving in the
Circ’lar ’Ead district,” he said, “and ’ad to
cross a shaller crick. When we was half-
way the waggon stopped dead, and d’yer
think them bullocks could pull it out? Not
them!” “Bogged, I suppose?” suggested one
of the impatient anglers, whose tale had been
interrupted. “Bogged be damned! When
JUST AS YOU PLEASE, MADAME.
MRS. POTTS-POINT: “Er — Wilfred, I am not in the habit of calling my chauffeur by his
Christian name—what is your surname?”
NEW CHAUFFEUR: “Darling, Ma’am.”
MRS. POTTS-POINT: “Drive on, Wilfred.”
I -went to investergate I found a lobster with
his front claws gripped around one of the
back wheels and ’angin’ on like ’ell.”
* * * *
“McDuff”; I can support “Homfrey
Beale” (B. 17/7/’29) in his remarks relative
to the kindly and appreciative nature of bull-
ants. Some years ago I was camped in
the Steiglitz Forest (Vic.) close beside a
bull-ant colony. They used to line up every
meal time, and enjoy the scraps I fed to
them. One hot Sunday afternoon I was <
awakened from a doze under a tree by a
thrashing sound a few inches from my head,
and was horrified to see a huge tiger-snake
lashing his forequarters vigorously. He
seemed unable to advance, and I presently
saw why. The whole colony of bull-ants,
to the number, I computed, of 17,500. were
hanging on to his tail, their tiny legs braced
into the ground, and each ant back-pedalling
hard. The colony had a whole snake and
half a loaf of bread for dinner that day.
* * * *
“Animbra”: Is it too late to stagger in
at the Kelly gang resurrection? Isaiah
(“Wild”) Wright, who was a working mate
of the famous gang, is buried on what is
now the Newcastle Waters landing-ground.
Wright travelled west with a droving plant
late in 1910 or early 1911, and on the return
trip was brought to Newcastle Waters suffer-
ing from malarial fever, which caused his
death. In those days each droving camp had
at least one cot-case, but since the sub-
artesian bores have been sunk on the Mur-
ranji track matters have greatly improved,
there being no occasion now to drink water
which 10 to 15 thousand bullocks have
polluted.
* * * #
“The Rumpus” : Mutton-fat Joe had been
reading my Bulletin. “Did y’ read this
bit,” he remarked after a while —“about
where the bloke says to pul down yer old
hat if y’ meet a snake suddint-like V The
snake’s surposed to wait there while y’ finds
a waddy. Did I ever tell y' my experience
about that? I was strolling long a punkin-
farmer’s fence when I was suddintly' con-
fronted be a flamin' big black snake. Fer ’arf
a minute I held ’is eye, which seemed pe-
culiar t,o me. Then I quietly puts down me
old hat, an’ yes, the snake’s eyes follows
it. I couldner been mor’n three minuts gone
when I comes back with a bonser stick. A
real snake-killin’ stick. But I couldn’t find
no snake in sight. Sorrorfully I goes to
pick up me hat” “Now look here,” I
interrupted, ’’don’t tell me, Joe, that the
snake was inside your hat. because I’ve
heard that yarn before.” Mutton-fat Joe
treated my protest like so much dirt beneath
his feet. ‘“Me old hat,” he said profoundly,
“was gorn. Then I see the dust of a little
willy-willy some distance away an’ me hat
whirling round in it. Of course I after it;
but strike me! wouldya b’lieve me when I
tells y’ there was the flamin’ snake goin’
round an’ round that willy with ’is eyes
glued on me hat?”
* * * *
“S.A.” : Dave learned to drive a Ford, and
now he’s got the contract to run the mail
from Bingewobba to Chainaman’s Flat. He
has often tried to strike up a conversation
with Muriel, who looks after the post office
in Roper’s Store. So far he has not been
ve r.y successful, for Muriel is a superior sort
of girl who is much given to reading roman-
tic fiction, and her dreamy eyes seem to
look through him as if he were transparent.
East Thursday, as she laid down her novel
to hand Dave the mailbag, she remarked to
] ie r mother, in a far-away voice: “Fancy
those Spanish Buccaneers going 2000 miles
i n a ga lleon” “darn!” broke in Dave,
“don’ vou believe it” He threw the mail-
imnortaiitlv ever his shoulder, and de-
claimed: ‘"Smattei- of fact, I wouldn't ’ave
one o' _them dago ears on me mind! •
“Veronal”: Birds and ’possums occasion-
ally pass out instantaneously when trees
A SCARCE COMMODITY.
“You don’t seem to get much interest out of sport, Isaacs.
“No, 1 can’t get as much as I vant even out of bizness.”
are struck by lightning, but death is some-
times due to shock and not to electrocution.
While a lightning-struck dead tree was being
cut up for firewood in this quarter (South
Coast, N.S.W.) two ’possums were found
in a “spout” stone-dead. As the fur was
not singed the animals had no doubt been
killed by shock. In the severe electric
storms which sweep over the Snowy Moun-
tains, flocks of sheep are sometimes struck,
when 50 or even more may be laid out,
singed and blackened. Lightning is freakish
in its choice of conduits into the earth, and
often skips tall dead or living trees and
strikes comparatively low ones near them,
while certain kinds of living trees, e.g.,
stringy-barks, are struck more frequently
than others.
* # * *
“De Novo”: “Mebra” (B. 3/7/’29) was
lucky to get a horse up to an old-man ’roo
even if he was to windward.
I’ve only once seen a horse go
quite near an “old man” that
was bailed up. The ’roo at once
sprang in and clutched Neddie
around the neck in a fond em-
brace, giving us the chance to
knock him on the head. Another
time a dog put up a nine-footer
at night, and held him up ; but
when I attempted to wade in
he jumped on top of me, and
proceeded to make a rag-bag of
my best suit. The dog pulled
him off by the tail and stuck
him up again ; so, deciding dis-
cretion was the better part of
valor, I made for a near-by
neighbor’s in hopes of getting a
gun. He hadn’t a gun, but he
had a car, and we rushed Mr.
’Roo with our headlights on.
’Roo promptly jumped on the
bonnet —and the engine stopped.
I knocked him off, and we charged him
again. This bowled him over, and the dog
got his chance.
* * * *
-“John E.”: A small goanna ran down the
butt of a pine-tree. On the ground he raised
his head and gave two sharp barks. Immedi-
ately a large female goanna, evidently aged,
emerged from a hollow limb high up in an
adjacent yellow T -box tree. Clumsily she
clambered down the tree, slithering to the
ground. Then she folknved the little go.
Straight as a die he made for a depression
in the sand ridge, and started biting the end
of some brown object beside a bunch of
pine-needles. I followed cautiously and found
that what they’d found was a plover’s egg;
and beside it, were two others. ihe
little fellow now ™*£ e EdA?eTdijL ! 'n“
Xta'^TheTed
female goanna waddled up and, opening her
jaws wide, made as though to swallow one
of the eggs. Instantly the little fellow sprang
to activity, withdrew his nose from the egg
and ran at the other, bowling the egg out
of her reach. Then he set to and broke
the end off it, inserting his mouth in the
hole for an instant as he had done in the
other. Then he backed away. Still the
older go. looked puzzled. Again the little
chap stuck his head in, and I fancied I
heard him smacking his lips noisily. An
expression of pleased surprise came over the
elder’s face; she moved over to the egg, and
began drinking the contents through the
hole made by the other. Then it dawned
upon me—he was teaching her to suck eggs.
She must be his grandmother !
* * * *
“Larrapinta”: Coming south from the
Barkly Tableland (N.T.) in ’B6 with a mob
of “505” bullocks, we halted on the Georgina
River to give the cattle a chance to pick up
in condition. The grass was literally alive
with quail, and as the long line of grazing
beasts moved slowly forward they flushed
a quail every few seconds. Within three or
four hours hundreds of goshawks appeared,
hovering over the cattle, and every time a
quail rose a hawk would go in pursuit. In
and out of the tussocks the quail would
dart, followed by the hawk, neither bird tak-
ing heed of where it flew. Several times I
saw a terrified quail fly full tilt into a feeding
bullock, the hawk hitting the beast’s flank
with a smack a second later. It was easy
to make a hawk drop its prize, and while
we were spelling the cattle our menu was
mostly roast quail,
* * * *
“Chetwynd” : They don’t all travel round
the shearing-slieds in motor-cars. A well-
known shearers’ cook, after finishing the
season on the Darling, sends his coat and
the bulk of his swag on to Moama from Wil-
cannia by parcels post, and then starts off
on the long trail for his home in Melbourne
per boot via Ivanhoe, Booligal, Hay and
Deniliquin. All he buys on the road is an
occasional loaf of bread and a bit of meat.
He takes the rattler at Echuca if time does
not permit of his finishing the journey on
foot.
* * * *
“O’ Jones.”: You can’t teach bush kids
much about their job. After I’d explained,
as I thought, all about coins and metals and
barter, I set the big boys to write an essay
on the subject. The first I read opened:
“Rabbit-traps are a valuable item of cur-
rency in Australia.” And that was a matter
I hadn’t mentioned.
(Continued on page 25.)
TRAPPING SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Twenty to the hollow log,
Eight beyond the creek—
Whistle up that straying dog —
Forty to the peak,
And your tally in the end
Sixty pairs a week!”
Stepping lively in the frost, cursing fog and
rain,
Listening for the clink of steel and the flying
chain.
Scarcely into bed before midnight comes
around,
Stumbling down the endless line on the rocky
ground.
Dingoes howling in the scrub, mopokes hoot-
ing near,
Huddled creatures held in pain, shivering
with fear.
Eerie shadows on the trees dancing with the
light;
Overhead the glittering stars all around the
night.
Blackness blacker for the gleam of the
twinkling lamp,
Then your cheerless bed at last in the lonely
camp.
Sunrise—and the line again in the coming
light—
Toil and nothing else but toil, morning, noon
and night.
Shoulders aching, hack bent loto,
Fingers frozen blue,
Round and round and round ice go
All the winter through.
Still—our money’s easy earned....
So it seems to you!
VICTORIA.
P.T. FINLAY.


- . — 1
m
m
2?r: y ‘
■k
y s*\ ........i
'
'fV. 0* "
ML: * **
■
■■■ :•"■' '•:: •-.
..' ; v;' : --'
§" i-. '•
II? 4
, * V >{&
/ jjR
i
err/
,v ■•■:'!
$5
• ' ■
e*g%e^
&
. .
/ ‘.. • >
■
: :•' : . ■■ ■ ■■ ' . . | ;■;
d MyJ* <iPv -
B
a
■mMHI
■■■
1
:
......
4
f :
fWgßm mm
■ - ; ■
mm wmmm» mmmMm«mm. \ mmmmm
■■Pig
i>'! : ■;■■■:
■r
■
1»
■
■
IMI
:
M
.
*s, *;
■
. :
£pARKXrK€r
V " •; i/'^m
fe-JS
hoc m
m-
■■■■■-'
W
■ ■
.2
■
,
tsmsm
V i
:
wmmm
mm
mmm.
■
11, «
■ is
■
■
■ -Ui£
*
p
: —-
'/ m %
m
0
11
m j
m
f
*
1
H
■
■
4»
'.* -im
%,
K
wfk 37iezr S
(mow L®btet
w wimß warning £s?s€
Smm
m
m
:
■■■■■■'- . : 1 ■
n
often wonder wkai ike
Vmiers bm)
so precious
as the Goods
Ornai* Jftia^atn


X
ARE YOU
RUPTURED?
With its patent water pad, Denyer’s
Elastic Truss gives every freedom
at work or sport, is always comfort-
able, and provides the ideal Rupture
support. Trusses also made to
oe-ve*
©
individual require-
ments.
Single, 30/
Double, 40/
Write for FREE Rupture
Pamphlet.
DENYER BROS.,
Dept. 1, 267 George Street, Sydney.
Ifußest
Basis is
BOLf
SILVER. TCP
DRY<iIN
S2£SQ
STAG'S
The Sign oS
QUALITY
The Wunderlich Trademark is
a sign of quality—it is your
guarantee of sterling value in
the following materials:—
Art Metal Ceilings, Terra Cotta
Roofing Tiles, Asbestos Cement
(Durabestos) Building Sheets.
Look for the trademark on these
products, when you purchase.
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
“Animbra” (Newcastle Waters) : Can any
Abo. identify these? I have two spiders,
each with 10 black legs. Body, red fore and
blue aft. I rescued one from a stock trough
apparently drowned, and he was in the water
for 12 hours after I first saw him. After
two days in a tobacco-tin he showed signs
of life. It was then that I noticed a similar
specimen in the camp, so I bagged it also,
with another breed —brown with white bands
across the legs. After they had been shut
up nine days I opened the tin prior to writ-
ing this, and the brown gentleman got away.
The other two are shadows of their former
selves, accounting possibly for the other’s
THAT SORT— YOU KNOW.
“But is she the sort of girl you would give your name to?”
“Well, yes, Dad—not your right name, of course.”
activity. There are many weird specimens in
this part of the country.
* * * *
“E.S.S.”: “Jim Carew” asks, “How do
trees grow?” (B. 10/7/’29). Keep your eye
on the terminal bud of the main stem of
any young tree or shrub and you will see
that they grow from the top. By nipping
a bit off that stem the tree is dwarfed. In
a gum forest there are trees with straight
holes, and the first limb 100 ft. or more from
the ground. When that tree was young, all
the branches were near the ground; and that
is what leads to so much argument. But look
on the ground and you will see the dead
sticks that the tree shed as it grew. The
butt ends of them are brittle, easily breaking
off in rings. The splitter knows where these
came from by the little knots in the wood he
cuts from the clean-looking trunk.
QUITE SUPERFLUOUS NOW.
DAD: “’Ere’s the bill for the telephone, Mum It seems a waste of money— we’ve ’ardly
used it since we’ve ’ad it.”
MUM: “But we only had it put on in case of sickness, Father
DAD: “Yairs—but now we’ve sold all the cows.”
“Questo”: It is hard to beat the abo. for
endurance. An ex-black-tracker was re-
cently captured by the police at the Bloom-
field,'nearly 70 miles from Cooktown (N.Q.).
His gin, carrying a piccaninny in a dilly-
bag on her back, walked in front of the
police horses all the way back to Cooktown.
They passed through Stuckey’s Gap and over
some of the roughest country in Australia.
Upon reaching Cooktown the gin and her pic-
caninny entered the gaol at the same time
as the ex-tracker. They will be shipped
away to Palm Island together.
# >l= * *
“Caractacus”: There was a queer strike
on a Rivcrina station in my day there. The
shearers’ cook was not much of a performer,
and the squatter was a wag. A batch of
particularly solid soda-scones was trying
the inhabitants of the “cottage” at the shed
just at the time
the station, bul-
locky arrived for
another load of
wool. He rested his
string outside the
cottage door. The
combination of cir-
cumstances led the
boss in a freakish
moment to cut
holes in a dozen
or so of the tough
squares of scone,
and use the
washers thus made
as toggles for the
bullock-bows.
When the bullocks
thus adorned stood
into the loading-
stage for wool the
fat was in the fire.
The cook reckoned
he had been
insulted, and
shearers and shed-
liands sided with
him. Up to that
moment we had
been trying to find
an excuse for get-
ting rid of an in-
competent poisoner;
now that in-
competent was
Mumma’s little,
boy. The flock-
owner had to eat
mud before another
comb went into wool, and no more jokes
were joked that shearing.
* * * *
“Kaihiku”: “Mundowie” (B. 3/7/’29)
omitted one important use for the old felt
hat. When you’ve lifted the last pot from
the camp-fire with it, it can be discarded
as head-gear, and you can cut it into
bonser inner soles for boots for winter wear.
* * * *
“Pick”: A few long trees still decorate the
landscape on the N.S.W. South Coast. One
vegetable lately felled by Bill Thompson, cut-
ting logs for Mitchell’s sawmill at Narooma,
measured 115 ft. from butt to first branch,
and was 12ft. 4in in diameter at the stump
and 7ft. at the other end. The mill jinker
teams were hefty enough to move the log
bodily, but it had to be cut into three sec-
tions before it could be hauled around the
bends in the road.
“Jacobb” (Port Essington) : The northern
abo. is not long in summing up the food
value of anything that swims, crawls, walks
or flies, as one of them —Skinful Charlie by
name—has just proved to me. We were busy
at a trepanging camp near Port Essington,
not far from Cape Don, where Owen and
Moir’s Vickers Vellore ’plane landed under
difficulties in May. Sitting watching the
boilers that evening, we were amazed to
see Verey lights, and heard the faint drum-
ming of the engines. After making all sorts
of wild guesses as to what the ’plane was,
we had to retire without knowing what had
happened. The following morning my mate
made off through the jungle to the light-
house to try to find
out the cause of
the visit. There he
located the ’plane
and its previous
occupants—one of
them busy cleaning
a pair of scissors
quite unconcern-
edly, whilst the
second was laid up
on a verandali-bed.
My mate and our
abo. guide made a
very close inspec-
tion of the machine,
and the abo. : —
Charlie —was much
intrigued with the
many gadgets of
tli e wondercraft.
After a day’s spell
my mate and the
guide returned to
the camp, and a
few days later there was much excitement
when Captain Brain, in the Atalanta,
flew low along the coast-line, disappear-
ing towards Crocker Island, our previous
camp, and then returning, circling our
camp low. As best we could we directed
him towards the lighthouse, which he made
off for. I had almost forgotten the incident
in the rush of getting a big batch of
trepang through the boilers, when Charlie
remarked: “I think it not much good that
one big-fellow bird drop down. Him only
got little-bit biscuit and cocoa. More better
Marella [the Burns-Philp steamer that
passes our camp monthly on her way to and
from Darwin] him been come ashore. Him
full up along everything. Us been good-
feller alonga, tucker sposem him been
Marella.”
# * * *
“Gouger” : It was a bonzer day. The old
pipe smoked well, bees hummed, birds
chirped. A lizard on a moss-covered log
sprang quickly forward and ate a fly. I was
digging out rabbit burrows in a wattle
scrub —digging along a single burrow, and
digging the wrong way. That is to say, I
was facing it instead of digging with my
back to the burrow and throwing the dirt
out forward. (You see, by digging that
proper way, if you disturb, a snake you
throw the angry reptile straight away for-
ward instead of dragging liim back on to
your ankles.) But it was such a bonzer
day nothing could go wrong. My tykes
squatted on their haunches before the burrow,
watching. I felt something move below the
damp earth; it felt like a cat. Grinning at
the surprise awaiting the dogs, I prodded
down. Immediately the disturbed earth
erupted, a ginger ball bounced up and show-
ered me with loam as he made one lightning
snap at my legs, then with a snarl making
for the timber, a vision of fiendish temper.
Gravel flew as with one accord the dogs set
off after the old dog-fox.
* * * *
“G.A.8.” : The subject of a decoy in rabbit
poisoning is fiercely debated in rabbit country,
various mixtures being championed by differ-
ent trappers. My neighbor recently had
occasion to thin out the pest on his farm.
He used thistle roots and strychnine.. He
ran out of essence of cloves and couldn’t find
any oil of cinnamon. He didn’t care about
going to all the work of making the baits
for nothing, so he rummaged the house for
a substitute. In his daughter's room he dis-
covered and annexed a bottle of eau-de-Col-
ogne. Never in all his raids on rabbits had
lie had such a catch as he bagged next
morning.
* * * *
“Wakatu”: Maoriland’s big shake has
given evidence in support of the belief that
animals sense coming seismic disturbances
before humans do. At Hawera pheasants in
a hatchery rose in the air and appeared
frightened two minutes before the ’quake.
On former occasions the birds have sought
the shelter of their roosts before an earth
tremor, and this time, although in broad
daylight, they were seen going to roosts
two hours before the first shock. In the
same town a flock of pigeons was observed
to take flight from the top of the water
tower and circle above the structure in
apparent alarm fully a minute before the
earth began to tremble. Yet another case is
recorded of a flock of birds which, while
the ’quake was on, gave up flying, came to
earth and, after fluttering about for a while,
lay still upon the ground. Instances of
household cats making a sudden headlong
dash for the open some appreciable time
before the arrival of the ’quake are innu-
merable.
* * * *
“Murrungurry”: “Sheep are tame things
on the track,” said the old; drover, “but they
rush sometimes, an’ I’ve seen ’em flatten
out a wire fence more’n once. One dark
night a mob nearly flattened me out. They
were camped on a slope, an’ I was havin
a few minutes’ stretch on the bottom side,
when a dingo howled not very far above ’em,
an’ the whole mob started full rip downhill.
I could ’ave jumped up, but thought they
OWEN AND MOIR’S ’PLANE AT CAPE DON.
(The abos. have made themselves quite at home.)
were only bundlin' together, as sheep do,
when I heard the stir; an’ next I knows
I’m under the mutton. A sheep hasn’t very
big feet, an’ it isn’t very heavy ; but you don t
want to be run over by a lot of ’em twice.
However, after about a dozen ’ad stumbled
over me* there came a bit of! a break, which
allowed the next one to see the obstruction,
lie jumped, an’ after that they all jumped.
* ❖ * *
“Drover”: A decent tour has just been
ended by a prospector named Jones. He
left Derby (W.A.) 18 months ago in search
of Terry’s lost lode, and, failing that, any-
thing that showed payable ore. Lack of
water and prospects caused him to leave
the desert country, so lie hit for Cooktown,
and has arrived there. Two of his horses
came right through from Derby,
4c ❖ . *
“Jimsey”: There is a big mahogany-tree
growing in a gully running into Webb’s
Creek, Hawkesbury district (N.S.W.),
which seems to have a peculiar attraction
for magpies. For over 20 years, to my
knowledge, these birds have nested in it.
Now the whole tree is dotted with forsaken
nests. So far I have never seen a pair of
magpies repair and use an old bungalow;
they always construct a new one. Some
have been built within a foot of others that
had been abandoned.
WARRANDYTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Spring has come to Warrandyte and all the
earth’s a-flower,
With the wattle keeping carnival along
the wooded aisles,
Hanging yellow banners in the grey gums’
bower,
Tossing plumes above the bridge and round
the dripping piles,
And scattering fragrant largesse down the
long river miles.
Winter finds the road is barred and wraps
her cloak about her,
Turns away in sour defeat where once
her sway was proud;
Every little lazy breeze with mocking sighs
to flout her
Calls a careless turncoat truce with sun
and sky and cloud,
Loitering by the rapids where the river-
song is loud.
Oh! hills, blue hills, where the shadows lie
for ever,
Oh! river, old river, singing onward to
the seas,
Your cool arcades are beautiful with bird
notes, scale and quaver,
And husky with the murmur of a thousand
thousand bees,
And crowned with all the glory of the
cloudy-blossomed trees.
Far, far from Warrandyte the evening star’s
a-tremble,
A flake of quivering silver in the green of
western skies,
And all my dreamings go with her, so I can
scarce dissemble
The trouble at my heart and the shadow
in my eyes—
I would across the Dandenongs the
morning sun would rise!
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bullb:tin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
ẃ
ment of a warrantee. (3) No ; the post office
nearest to the pensioner’s residence.
(1) What demand it* there for eucalyptus
oil? (2) How can I get in touch with
buyers in Sydney? —ls2o.
(1) There is a stable demand for oil con-
taining- 55 p.c. cineol to 70 p.c. The price
is regulated not only by the cineol, but by
the fact that it is free from phellandrene.
In other words, there is a good chance for
oil if it- is standardised, and you are able
to offer a uniform quality and guarantee
the cineol contents. (2) Buyers in Sydney:
Sheldon Drug Cos., 131 Clarence-street;
Elliott Bros., O’Connell-street'; Australian
Drug Cos., Carrington-street; Short'and Son,
10 O’Connell-street, Newtown.
(1) Name of Sydney firm, to whom one
may sad opossum skins for tanning or cur-
ing? (2) Cost per skin? (3) Would it be pos-
sible to send skins merely stretched and dried
to England for curing? (4) Would skins be
dutiable in England? —l4l7.
(1) Broomiiam Bros., High-street, Wil-
loughby. (2) Ask for quote. Skins from
Queensland for sale or use in N.S.W. must
be accompanied by two police certificates,
particulars of which can be obtained from
the local police. (3) Provided skins are
stretched and thoroughly dried, and then
painted with naphthaline to keep out weevils,
they should carry safely to England. (4) No.
(1) Opportunities of employment in the
Malay States for an Australian, 25 years old,
with several years' copra-planting experience
in the Islands? (2) Qualifications required?
(3) To whom should one apply in Australia?
(4) Approximate salaries on plantations? (5)
Any prejudice against Australians? —1354.
(1) Poor. Most copra planting is done in
a small way by natives. The price is low
at present, and the industry is precarious for
Europeans. (2) For general planting firms
train youths on the spot. (3) Know of no
firms with headquarters in Australia.
Engagements usually done from Singapore.
(4) Salaries of planting overseers range
from £lO to £ls a month, but may be raised
to £25 in three months with house and
servants. (5) No.
Can a tenant claim the cost of enclosing
a verandah, the ivork having been done with
the landlord's permission, but with no
promise to pay for it? —1468.
No.
Does all the world navigate from Green-
wich ? —1321.
Not yet, but it has been arranged that the
meridian of Greenwich will in future be
considered the first meridian for the entire
globe, and foreign charts graduated accord-
ingly. International consent was given about
five years ago.
In reply to question 364 ( B. 12/6/’29)
the Queensland Succession and Probate
Duties Act was quoted. On a £2OOO estate
a probate duty of 1 p.c. and a succession
duty of 14 p.c. duty were mentioned plus
Federal duty. It is added that “the com-
bined duty (Federal and State) payable on
an estate of a net value of £2OOO is £33
where the beneficiaries are a widow and
children under 21.” I can’t get the two to
agree. What is wrong? —ls2s.
..The rates are correctly stated for Queens-
land. The second part of the answer referred
to N. S. Wales, not Queensland; we’re sorry
the distinction wasn’t made clear.
(1) Any Diggers’ Homes available at
Matraville, Sydney? (2) If so, terms and
conditions? (3) 1 am a totally incapacitated
A.I.F. man, mamed, with no children.
Would I have preference over a Digger with
no pension? (4) Any other houses let to
Diggers at a small rental, under the Dewar
trust, for instance? —1428.
(1) Not at. present. (2) Rental and con-
ditions of occupancy from the Public Trust
Office, 67 Castlereagh-street, Sydney. (3)
Yes ; preference is given to totally incapaci-
tated men. But there is a long waiting-list
held by the Voluntary Workers’ Association,
114 Hunter-street <J. J. Moore, sec.), which
selects occupants. (4) Dwellings erected
from moneys provided by the trustees of
the Mary Ann Dewar estate form part of
Matraville village, and are let on the same
terms and conditions. No others let at
small rentals are known.
(1) Pay of a mounted constable in West-
ralia? (2) Conditions for married men? (3)
Pay of foot police? (4) Ghw'ces of promo-
tion? —1296.
(1) Probationary constables, 11s. 6d. per
day; on acceptance, 14s. 6d. Men not in
quarters are paid an additional 2s. 6d. per
day lodging allowance. (2) Get Police
Union award from Govt. Printer, Perth.
(3) Same as for mounted men. (4) Good
enough for the right stamp of man. -Con-
stables must pass a qualifying exam, for
n.c.o. rank. All men are taken on as foot
constables; before being given charge of a
one-man station in the country they have
to pass a riding.test.
Value of (1) Australian imports for year
to June 30,1927? (2) Goods manufactured
in Aust.f (3) Manufactured goods‘exported?
(4) Primary produce exported? (5) Wool
production in pounds—all same period? —
1346.
(1) £164,716,594. (2) Value of output of
Australian factories was £408,692.838,
£162,325,273 being added in process of manu-
facture. (3) £4,026,491. (4) £137,879,383.
(5) 924,410,5531 b.
(1) If I sell a house, must a solicitor
be employed for the transfer? (2) What is
the stamp duty? (3) If I die leaving pro-
perty willed to my husband and son, can my
husband sell all without Government inter-
ference? —1439.
(1) No; if you, or a friend, are capable
of making the transfer at the Lands Titles
Office, Queen’s Square, Sydney, you can do
so. (2) Where the value of the property does
not exceed £SO, 7s. 6d.; where it exceeds £SO
but does not exceed f 100, 155.; for every £IOO
and also for any fractional part of £IOO of
such value, 15s. (3) If you appoint your
husband sole executor under your will with
power to sell, then after probate has been
granted and duty paid he may dispose of the
property, but he must account to your son
for his portion.
My brother in Canada wishes to come to
N.S.W. to look for work in a wheat-growing
area. Do you advise him to come? —1405.
Not this season, though the recent rains
have made crop prospects in most districts
look brighter than they did.
In prospecting for mica in Westralia what
conditions have to be complied with, and
under what terms are leases granted? —lsGo.
A miner’s right, which costs 55., must
first be obtained. This qualifies the holder to
prospect Crown lands; on discovering prom-
ising indications, he may peg out a pros-
pecting area of 24 acres. Application must
be lodged within 10 days of pegging; fee,
10s. If granted, the area can be held for
12 months subject to compliance with Mining
Act provisions and regulations; the term
may be extended —10s. for an additional six
months. If the discovery proves payable
the area should be converted into a mineral
lease; cost ss. per acre per annum: term,
21 years. Further information may be ob-
tained by purchasing a copy of the Mining
Act 1004, and regulations, Is. (kl.
Quantity of (1) citrus fruit exported from.
Mouth Africa for last three recorded years?
and (2) dried fruit exported for last two
gears? —loo4.
(1) In 1025, 751,814 cases; ’2O, 011,531;
’27, 838,703. The ’27 figures included
74N,444 cases of 1 oranges, 52,087 of naarijos,
170 of lemons and 30,093 of grapefruit. (2)
in ’2O, 7,861,8701 b.; ’27, 7,005,4941 b.
(I) In what year was the road opened
over Spicer's Cap, between Brisbane and
Warwick? (2) By whom was it built?
(3) Any record of the money spent on it? —
1000.
(1) No authentic record; probably about
1843. (2) By men employed by Patrick
Leslie, Canning Downs; the money was
supplied by the Government in Sydney. (3)
No complete record.
A drawing done in ink and water-color
has become “smoked.” Any treatment to
restore? —l4l4.
You can clean the picture by making up
a solution of chloride of lime and water.
Cupful of chloride of lime; put into a wide-
necked pickle bottle, fill with water, shake
well and allow lime to settle. Pour off
clear liquid into a larger bottle ; refill bottle
with water, shake again and allow lime to
settle ; again pour off clear liquid. You should
now have about a quart of clear chloride. Pour
into a flat dish large enough to hold draw-
ing ; take drawing and soak in clear water
for five minutes; take out of clear water and
place—face up—in the chloride bath. Watch
very closely and see whether the dirt dis-
appears. As soon as the discoloration is
gone take out of bath and place in clean
water; then lay flat on a towel to dry. But
if the picture is valuable, send it to an expert.
How to panel a room with wallpaper? —
1290.
The first thing to do is to mark on the
wall vcith pencil the position of the panel
paper; usually two narrow panels on either
side of a large one for walls with no break,
and one or two panels on the smaller walls.
This paper is hung first, then the plain or
styling paper is hung round these panels and
the whole is finished with a narrow border.
Another scheme is to paper the whole wall
with a floral or a design paper and use what
is called a styling border—style and border
combined, usually from 7in. to lOin. wide. A
strip of this is hung round the room at the
picture-rail or cornice; another strip above
the skirting-board; then as many uprights
can be put in as will suit the room, mitreing
the top and bottom joins. If the walls are
plaster it is advisable to give them a coat
of size before hanging papers.
(1) Best season for removal of suckers
so that further growth will not appear? (2)
Easiest method of removing stumps and
whole of root system—manual labor only?
(3) Should all the roots be cleared away
from ground chosen as site for house? —1138.
(1) Suckers should be torn off, taking
care to have a heel or strip adhering to the
sucker, in late spring. (2) Remove soil
where necessary; cut main roots; remove
stumps by means of levers. See “Farmers’
Handbook,” issued by N.S.W. Department
of Agriculture, fourth edition, page 125. (3)
Yes. If stumps are left in these may become
centres of white-ant infection. Where large
stumps are removed allow soil to settle, and
if necessary strengthen foundations.
How to cement the bottom of a 1000 -gal.
tank? The tank is in good order except for
about a square foot on the bottom that has
rusted through. Would plain cement make
a better job than cement and sand? —7B2.
Treat the whole of the bottom with cement
mortar; it is problematical whether a
patch applied over the leak would be suc-
cessful. A mixture of 11 of sand to 1 of
cement should be used to cover the bottom
to a depth of 2in. Paint bottom and sides
where the mortar will touch with a cement
and water grout of the consistency of paint.
The grout should be made by adding water
to the cement until the consistency of a
thin cream is reached, the mixture being
allowed to stand for at least 20 minutes
with frequent stirring before applying as a
wash coat. This will enable the mortar to
make a very close contact with sides and
bottom.
How is skittles played? How are the
scores calculated , and what would a set cost?
—1251.
The game is played in a specially prepared
alley, long and narrow; at one end nine
cigar-shaped wooden pins, about a foot high
and seven to nine pounds in weight,
are set up in the form of a square, with one
angle towards the player. He stands 21ft.
from the nearest pin, and throws a wooden
ball called a “cheese,” the object being to
floor the pins in as few throws as possible.
He scores three points if he knocks them
all down with one throw; two points if it
takes him two throws; one point if it takes
him three throws; if after three throws any
pin is standing, he doesn’t score. There'are
other ways of scoring, such as giving each
pin a certain value. Any sporting goods
dealer should be able to provide a set, with
rules, for about 30s.
Brief Answers.
C.L.K.: 10 p.c. on £100... . J.G.: Yes, a
very good gamble R.T.S.C.: As far as we know
the eo. is not operating in Australia E.8.A.:
Stormy was scratched at 11 a.m. on July 4....
E.M.0.: Pronounced Vee-thente Blahsco Ee-bahn-eth.
. ...5.J.8.: If the thing has been presented and dis-
honored the holder may sue on it; the subsequent
agreement was not tantamount to meeting the note.
. ...C.H.P.: Write Wimble and Cos., 35 Clarence-
street, Sydney G.8.T.: If you are an unskilled
laborer it is inadvisable to go; the Westralian supply
of unskilled labor exceeds the demand. The sum you
mention would see you across and keep you for a
few days, but after that G.D.: Jack Howe
shore 321 sheep with the blades in one day at Alice
Downs, Q M.D.T.: Angora rabbits may not be
imported into Australia. .. .L.H.: Seals, not whales,
were the quarry in Jack London’s “Sea W01f”....
Sacerdos: It shall be reviewed. The position is :
apparently sound, but only an actuarial examination of
policy and other liabilities could determine whether
bonuses should be paid. Bonuses are more often paid
too soon than too tardily... .A.11.M.: It’s a very
long shot. If you are a gambler, yes; if you can’t
well afford to lose, n 0... .H.8.M.: It is all a matter
of code-work. Although some claim telepathic powers,
it has been shown by expert investigators that they
can without the pretence do all and more than the
work of the pretenders... .J.S.F.: “Italian Self-
Taught,” Bs. 6d., Angus and Robertson, Sydney....
W.M.: Communicate with your local Inspector of
Stock... .P.D.It.: Any of these: “Airplane Design
and Construction,” by Pomilio; “Aeroplane Construc-
tion,” by Gamin; “Airships, Past and Present,” by
Hilderbrandt; “How to Build an Aeroplane,” by
Petit —all in N.S.W. Public Library.... V.S.V.: Ripp-
fnann’s “The Sounds of English”; Jones’s “Pronuncia-
tion of English” ; Palmer’s “First Course of English
Pronunciation”; Palmer, Martin and Blandford’s
“Dictionary of English Pronunciation and American
Variations”.... W.N.; You don't say whether any
demand has been made for fees during the 10 years;
if not, resist the claim. If demand has been made
your having ignored it would not rid you of
liability.... E.W.; Melbourne Uni. has no course of
instruction in radium treatment; and it is the only
likely place we know of. ... W.G.8.: Make it £502
2s. 6d. • seven years, two quarters and 12 weeks
to go. .. .H.W.R.; Without full particulars, it is
impossible to advise. Communicate with Deputy Com-
missioner of Pensions, Sydney, and give all facts....
A.G.: “Why Editors Regret” will be ready for dis-
tribution in a few weeks... .C.G.8.: Geoffrey Cumine
has not had a book of verses published. .. .H.T.M.:
Write Legion Laboratories, 32 Wattle Valley-road,
Canterbury (Vic.). See also B. l/5/’29 and 24/7/’29.
. ...D.D.; (1) Yes; anything on the farm, except a
lodger’s or casual visitor’s belongings. (2) Depends
on the shares agreement. (3) Not unless provided
in the lease. .. . A.G.8.: Try second-hand departments
of Angus and Robertson and Dymocks, Sydney....
W.H.C.: If you believe you have an interest in an
estate in Chancery, apply to Assistant Paymaster-
General, Supreme Court Pay Office, London R. 8.:
lvundang, Kramat, Larut, Rawang and Serendah, 26
Jamieson-street; Ulu Yam, 4 Martin-place; Katu and
Renong Consolidated, 14 Martin-place—all Sydney.
As to employment, the best course would be to write
to the cos D.F.0.R.: (l) Classics, according to
Webster, are “works of the highest class and of
acknowledged excellence.” In English they would be
numbered in hundreds, from Shakspeare down. (2)
Try any Brisbane bookseller... .8.G.: Suggest “Gun-
damain” (“house on a stream”), “Gurregory” (“high
river banks”), “Loombah” (“steep banks”), “Muneela”
(“winding river”) or “Woorabinda” (“camp at a deep
waterhole”) . ... J.E.: This is how the “Statesman’s
Year Book” puts it: “A dissolution of the House of
Commons may occur by the will of the Sovereign, or,
as is most usual, during the recess by proclamation,
or finally by lapse of time, the statutory limit of
the duration of any Parliament being five years”
A.C.: A form of it is resorted to by psycho-analysts
in special cases, but self-advertised professors of
hypnotism are not recognised by the medical pro-
fession. .. .M.M.R.: Classing of rabbit-skins can be
learned only by practical experience at one of the
stores. Any of the selling brokers’ or buyers’ stores at
Pyrmont will take on men when vacancies occur ; wages
are slightly over £5 per week. The Technical
College does not conduct classes for this work....
A.M.P.; The process is complicated, and not recom-
mended for home making; results are apt to be uncer-
tain. Crystal vinegar for pickling, etc., is supplied
by city grocers at the same rates as brown vinegar,
and can be purchased by bottle or in bulk.... J.C.:
Couldn’t possibly squeeze that mass of information
into a Service Page answer. Consult Commonwealth
“Production” and “Oversea Trade” Bulletins at the
Public Library or Government Statistician’s Office,
Perth.... J.R.: Soldiers’ homes at Matraville are
administered by the Public Trust, 67 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney. The War Service Homes Commission,
35 Clarence-street, might be able to help you. Why
not approach it?... .E.C.D.: (l) H. F. Lane, Angora-
goat Breeders’ Assoc., Enalfern, Burgooney (N.S.W.) ;
Dr. Failes, Coonabarabran (N.S.W.) ; Blaxland and
Knox, Wyalong (N.S.W.) ; John Melrose, Ulooloo
(S.A.) ; and Peak Pastoral Cos., care Elder, Smith and
Cos., Adelaide, are possible sources of supply. (2)
Dept, of Agriculture is not aware of anyone systema-
tically breeding angora goats in Vic C.R.: (1)
Write Capt. Barrett, Commissioner Municipal Police
Force, Shanghai, China. (2) See B. 17/4/’29....
L.R.T.: Can find no formula for an ink that vanishes
in a month. A French article sold under the name of
“Encre pour les Dames” is used for the purpose....
N.M.K.; Read “The Movies as Medium,” by Robert
Nichols, in the April issue of the Realist. .. .J.L.:
Information too long to print here; - see “Water
Supply, Sewerage and Drainage” chapter in the
“Commonwealth Year Book” W.J.E.: Conrad H.
Sayee has published, in addition to “Golden Buckles,”
“In the Musgrave Ranges,” “The Golden Valley,”
“The Valley of a Thousand Deaths” and “The
Splendid Savage.” Born Hereford, England, Jan. 31,
1888; son of the Kev. Wm. Jasper Sayce.... J.M.8.:
(1) N.S.W. Railway Act makes no provision for
refund of contributions to the superannuation fund
in the case of employees who voluntarily leave after
less than 15 years’ service. (2) Section 125 reads:
“Any officer dismissed for misconduct shall forfeit
all right to superannuation allowances or gratuities,
but if he was dismissed for a cause which in the
opinion of the Railway Superannuation Board did
not amount to serious misconduct, he may receive a
refund of such portion of the deductions made from
his salary as the board may think fair” M.E.P.:
At present they cannot be imported into Australia,
but State Agricultural Ministers are advocating the
lifting of the embargo. .. .H.D.: Admission to the
Foreign Office service is by open competition; parti-
culars and conditions of employment will be found
in the “Foreign Office List,” available at most
public libraries. For information not contained in
the “List” write Foreign Office, Downing-street,
London, 5.W.1... .L. 0.: (1) By a syphgmomano-
meter. (2) Yes. (3) Yes, about 120 to 130. (4)
High blood pressure is a disease in itself. (5)
Yes. (6) No. (7) Rest is the first essential, and
then a suitable diet.... (Many others mailed.)


Two Reasons
and One Proof
V
H
!T
%
Feel the grip of the
deep ■ cut sharp - edged
blocks, placed in the
centre of the tread.
ẅ
w
©
There is greater stretch
—up to 60% in
Supertwist Cord over or-
dinary cord.
ŵ
CORD TEST . . .
shows you why a
Goodyear Super -
twist Cord carcass
has greater endur-
ance.
The PROOF of these advantages is: More
People, the world over, ride on Goodyear
Tyres than on any other kind.
Ask your Goodyear
Dealer for a demonstra-
tion on his Supertwist
cord-testing machine.
WSk
«
Vou pay no more for Goodyear Tyres
and Tubes, made in Australia, than
for any other make.


ẁ
I >Noo\ \
'O 1
Iptackoyft'o
fm Carson
oZP
The
Words
on the
Bale
are brimful of wisdom. The action they indicate
produces satisfaction for growers. Hence the wide
popularity of Winchcombe, Carson as selling brokers,
Close supervision of each client’s wool by the
management is an outstanding force in the firm’s
work. Write
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
LTD.
Winchcombe House, Bridge Street,
Sydney, or 99*101 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M J Kvan E-m •
tr. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M G > •
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne Sydney and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking bus’iness.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office —
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
MORE PRIZES FOR FARMERS.
In order to encourage farmers to pass
on to others the fruits of their observa-
tion and experience, “The Bulletin” will
give three prizes for the most helpful
contributions during the six months to
Dec. 31 next.
Points will be awarded for every con-
tribution submitted, if thought worthy and
whether printed or not, and two prizes—
the first of £25 and the second of £lo—
be given to the winners of most
points.
A special prize of £5 will be given for
’'he best individual contribution.
Only contributions that are of practical
value to men on the land are asked for;
literary merit is not taken into account, so
long as the meaning is expressed plainly.
The prizes are in addition to the ordi-
nary payments made for all “Bulletin”
contributions.
+
WHAT’S BEST TO DO WITH
STUBBLE?
“Noah ’Fraid”: “F.S.A.” (B. 10/7/’29)
suggests spraying stubble-straw with molas-
ses for the purpose of encouraging
sheep tot eat the straw, and, in tread-
ing down what they do not consume,
assist in replenishing our wheat soils in
humus. The suggestion is to spray 22.51 b.
molasses suitably diluted (the rate of dilu-
tion is not mentioned, and it is important)
over every acre of wheat-straw stubble.
The minimum quantity of liquid to spray
an acre of straw with any degree of suc-
cess would be 40ga1., so to treat 100 acres
we would require 4000 gal. water. The
spraying would require to be done shortly
after harvest —in the summer, when water
on most Australian wheat-farms is worth
its weight in sheep.
Further, with a computed spraying effici-
ency of 50 p.c., the straw would, after spray-
ing, contain one-half per cent, of molasses
(1 ton of straw to 11.251 b. of molasses).
This is not enough to affect the palatability.
It is like asking a Scotchman to have a
drink and then handing him a glass of
water containing one drop of whisky. It
would be left, and so would the straw.
With all respect, I say the suggestion is
not practical nor economical, and, therefore,
farmers will continue to burn the straw to
destroy the insect pests and plant-diseases.
“F.S.A.” gives the daily maintenance
ration of a mature sheep as: Protein, ,151 b.;
carbohydrates, 1.201 b.; fat, .0251 b. This agrees
with U.S.A. figures, excepting fat, which
is given as .00251 b. But I query the figures
given as to the value (content) of 31b. of
wheat-straw in protein, carbohydrates and
fat. “F.S.A.” says they are: Protein, .66
p.c.; carbohydrates, 21.7 p.c.; fat, 2.7 p.c.
Official U.S. analyses of digestible nutrients
showed: Proteins, .2 p.c.; carbohydrates,
35.1 p.c.; fats, .4 p.c. (Total analyses
agree very closely with Australian figures
for 30 samples.)
SUPER. AND OTHER MANURES.
“Curlew”: “Yeoman”( B. 10/7/’29) quotes
results at Booborowie (S.A.) over ten years
with varying dressings of super. He considers
the failure of the heavier dressings of super,
to give returns corresponding to the lighter
is due to the fact that other plant food
besides phosphoric acid is needed. In using
heavy dressings of super, (or other freely sol-
uble fertiliser) it must be borne in mind that
if the soil moisture be made unduly “rich”
(over-dense) it cannot be taken up readily by
plants. In sowing super, with the seed it is
placed in the same drill mark. It cannot be
used until held in solution in the soil moist-
ure. But soil is greedy for phosphoric acid,
which speedily becomes associated with the
soil particles and does not carry far. Broad-
casted a heavy dressing of super, might show
better results, as then all the soil moisture
should be about equally charged.
Results at Rutherglen (Vic.) are very
similar to Booborowie. But other fertilising
matters besides phosphoric acid have been
used. Results over 13 years are as follows:
No manure, 12.46 bushels ; 561 b. super., 19.8 ;
1121 b.. 20.9; 2241 b., 21.8; 1121 b. super, and
561 b. nitrate of soda with seed, 23.5; ditto,
in spring, 22; 1121 b. bone fertiliser, 20.1;
10 tons farmyard manure, 21.1; 10 tons
farmyard manure plus lOcwt. lime, 21.4;
1121 b. super, plus 441 b. ammonia sulph., 22.5 ;
1121 b. super, plus 56b. potash sulph., 20.5;
1121 b. super, plus 561 b. potash sulpli., 21.0;
1121 b. basic slag, 20.7; 561 b. basic slag plus
561 b. super., 21.6; 1121 b. super, plus scwt.
lime, 23.3; 1121 b. super, plus lOcwt. lime,
22.4; 1121 b. super, plus 20cwt. lime, 23.9. It
will be seen that bone fertiliser lcwt., basic
slag lcwt., basic slag plus super, lcwt.,
farmyard manure 10 tons with and without
lime, lcwt. super., 2cwt. super, and lcwt.
super, plus 4cwt. potash are all but little
better than lcwt. super. Very probably
Jcwt. or lcwt. of super, plus the farmyard
manure would make much difference. One
cwt. of super, plus of soda nitrate gave
231 and 22 bushels, while with 441 b. of
sulphate of ammonia the yield was 22§
bushels. Nitrogen in moderation seems
necessary at Rutherglen, but it was wasting
money using potash—a common experience
on Australian soils. Humus is yearly
becoming more necessary.
MORE CO-OPERATION IN FARMING.
“Wofum”: Why not apply more mass-pro-
duction methods to the Australian farm?
The Yank has already done it in several
striking instances and the movement is
spreading; in the face of the recent drop in
wheat (only partly and very uncertainly
recovered) we may in fact be forced to it.
As long ago as 1921 the Campbell Farming
Corporation of America farmed 100,000
acres exclusively for wheat, and one of the
lesser-known activities of Henry Ford to-day
is his business of wheat-growing. H’e uses
60 tractors on the one estate and finds he
can carry out all the necessary operations
in 15 working days per year and keep the
land in better trim than formerly. So much
is the practice of large-scale farming in
America growing that a new profession of
farm management is already established, and
American boys now consider whether they
will go into medicine, engineering, etc., or
into this new profession.
By amalgamations, the formation of co-
operative concerns under a central manage-
ment and otherwise, wheat is being produced
with only two hours of man labor per acre
per year, as compared with a corresponding
figure of up to 40 in the case of the farmer
using old-time methods. Of course I know
the sentiment for the present national system
of small holdings. Nevertheless there at least
seems room for the formation of some organi-
sation whereby tractors may be made more
available to Australian farmers. Some sys-
tem of grouping might possibly meet the
case.
SHOW PREPARATIONS—DRAUGHT-
HORSES.
“Koolonga” : Seeding and heavy winter work
being finished, look over your stock for some-
thing fit to work up for the Show season.
The idea is to turn a ten- or twenty-pound
horse into a forty- or fifty-pounder, and
win a blue ribbon or two. Get your team-
horses out and have a look over them. That
bay gelding you bought last year looks the
best of the lot, and he has some good blood
in him, too. Just on 17 hands; head broad,
deep, intelligent .and beautifully held. Chest
wide and deep ; his ribs are broadly sprung
and coupled short. Neck arched just as
you think it should be; length of slope of
his shoulders just exceeds the length of his
back and loins ; quarters well muscled, and
he’s compact all over. Run him up and
down a few times and see that he hasn’t
a stilted or rolling motion, .and that his walk
and trot are snappy.
You’ve got nearly three months till the
shows, but put him into a stall while you’re
hot on the job, wash him thoroughly and
put on a light rug to flatten his coat.
Occasional work won’t harm him ; take the
rugs off when he is working. Groom him
thoroughly every day—after his morning’s
work —and wash him all over once a week.
Fqed him small and often; drop keeping the
feed-boxes full, and give him nearly a tin
of chaff four times a day, starting about
six and the last feed at eight. Give him some
green-stuff now and then, and in a month
begin to harden his diet gradually. But,
remember, extra oats means .less chaff, or
he’ll probably break out in oat-boils. Some
linseed in his feed for a fortnight before the
big event will give the coat an extra shine.
Always have a piece of salt in his manger.
Take care of his feet. They’ll need to be
picked out frequently, because manure affects
the frog. His stall must be kept clean and
all wet straw and droppings removed as soon
as possible. His tail is docked already, of
course, but you can’t give the mane and
tail too much brushing. Be careful to use
a brush with soft bristles in it, otherwise
you’ll pull out or break a lot of hair. Plait
the mane and tail every night and undo
the plaits in the morning; you’ll be surprised
at the difference a wavy mane and tail will
make in his appearance. The mane should
be done in six plaits down the neck and
one for the forelock.
Give him plenty walking and trotting ex-
ercise on a lead —be careful not to frighten
him while doing that, or he may turn out
a bad leader. Get your cobbers to come and
fumble all over him while he’s standing
amongst other horses. That gets him used
to being judged, and a horse that stands
steady and is quiet in the show-ring gets
many more points than the maneater.
NATURAL PASTURE IMPROVEMENT.
“Ingle B.”: In districts with over a 28in.
rainfall and not excessive evaporation, in-
troduced grasses suitable to the particular
climate can be used in pasture improvement
with good results; but when the rainfall
goes below 20in., the encouragement of
native grasses, herbs and ti-efoils found
growing naturally on the country is the
better practice.
The method employed by the writer is to
take stock off a paddock it is proposed to
top-dress when there is sufficient moisture
and warmth to ensure a moderate growth.
After the paddock has been spelled for a
month or six weeks, the spreader is run over
the land, distributing from lcwt. to 2cwt.
super, as desired, and doing from 10 to 20
acres a day according to nature of country.
I find that the estimate of output of agricul-
tural machines is based on ideal conditions;
any practical man will appreciate the dif-
ference between driving over a stony basalt
hill and over a level, nicely grassed alluvial
flat. On the latter probably three times the
area can be gone over with ease to driver,
machine and horse. On the former more
n,super, is put out than is necessary, unless
proper allowances are made.
Improving natural pastures is much less
expensive than laying down hew pasture,
say 10s. as against £4 per acre. And every
portion of the holding may be treated, as
those parts which are too steep or stony to
be negotiated with a horse machine can be
treated with a hand spreader or even broad-
cast.
A friend in a better rainfall zone of the
same district —lie has 26 inches; here it is
19 inches—has had much experience in lay-
ing down pasture. He has now given it up,
and this year has distributed 80 tons of
super, and one ton of sub. clover seed over
2000 acres of natural grass country which
ordinarily carries a sheep to the acre. From
his experiments he expects to carry 4000
sheep when the clover and super, do their
work.
MORE ABOUT TUNG OIL.
“R.S.” : Having had seven years of trad-
ing in so-called tung oil, I am able to
give details that may interest people who
think of planting the oil trees. The table
herewith shows the remarkable expansion
of overseas exports during the last six
years:—
Tung Oil (Wood Oil) Exports from China
(from Customs Returns).
Export increase of some 9000 tons during
the three years ’22 to ’24 would have con-
tinued in ’25-’2B had it not been for the
Civil ware that raged all over South and
Central China.
Wood oil is a side-line with the Chinese
farmer of the Central and Southern pro-
Farmers who adjoin the hillsides
grow 50 or 100 trees, and neglect them except
at harvest. The irrigable land in the valleys
is too valuable for rice-growing areas to be
used for wood-oil trees. The methods of ex-
traction are still primitive, and much oil is
left in the refuse after crushing in their
wedge-worked presses. Moreover, the pre-
liminary preparation of the nuts is crudo
and inefficient. The use of the refracto-
meter for testing is now quite usual amongst
the Chinese. After testing, the oil is poured
into large vats. It has to remain there from
two or three weeks, and undergoes a series
of skimmings. Means of heating are neces-
sary, as during winter it solidifies. Foreign
firms use other means of refining which are
more or less trade secrets. The oil is drawn
off into casks or steel drums and transported
by junk or lighter to the nearest “free”
port where overseas vessels can load. It
may be further refined and tested before
export. There is a growing practice among
U.S.A. buyers to use tank vessels.
There has always been a wide trade in
the oil for local use. There are millions
of junks, large and small, on Chinese water-
'ways all protected by wood oil without
any other paint. There is also a wonderful
varnish known as Ningpo, used for interiors
of houses, in which it is an ingredient. Its
use for a paint vehicle is, of course, well
known.
The climate in which the trees grow is sub-
tropical to tropical, with big rainfalls; but
many parts have also a more severe winter
than Victoria. So far as climate and soil
go, many parts of N.S.W. and Queensland
are suitable.
The crux of the question is cost of pro-
duction. The nuts require labor to gather
and market, and it could not be done in
Australia under 10 times the cost in China.
On the other hand, it is likely that modern
methods of cultivation of the right sort of
tree would make for larger yields per tree.
Better processes of preparation and oil ex-
traction should also improve the yield, whilst
a use might be found for by-products. Bur
it must be clearly realised that the
cost of production must be reduced to
world parity, because the Australian con-
sumption (see table) is too small to
make cultivation worth while. The largest
quantity used in Australia and Maoriland
was in 1925 —some 175 tons; the imports
decreased to 1+ tons in 1927. This may
have been due to the high price (over £5O
per ton) as compared with other available
paint and varnish materials.
This price of over £5O is not a safe one to
base a calculation upon, as owing to civil
wars, etc., supplies have been scarce in China
compared with the increasing demand from
U.S.A. and Europe. A safe figure would
be £35 to £4O as a world price.
THE IMPORTANCE OF BREED.
“Curlew”: A study of the returns of
purebred herd-tested cows shows that some
breeders have a large proportion of heavy
yielders. Other breeders have some (more
or less) choice cows and many inferior ones.
It is rather a common remark concerning
cows giving high yields: “Yes, but what
feed did she get?” Though poor feeding
will give poor yield, heavy feeding will
not give big returns unless the cow is
a machine made to convert feed into milk
and butterfat. A study of pedigrees of heavy
producers, whether many or few in a herd,
will inevitably show that they are bred from
heavy producing parents. Particular stress
must be put on the bull. For one thing, his
blood flows in every calf in the. herd, while
that of a choice dam runs in only one calf
yearly. But unless he be bred from a good
cow—in the sense of producing power, not
merely shape and correct fancy points—he
will very probably prove a dud.
In choosing a bull his dam should be
studied. Her herd-testing figures should bo
available; but even better, or as a clinch
to the argument, is a study of her udder. Is
it a large, symmetrical, well-balanced vessel
coming well forward and extending well
behind so that it has abundant capacity and
is well attached, and so capable of carrying
a full load? Are the teats large, of good
texture and well spaced ? These are essentials.
One small breeder who keeps only half a
dozen cows does not own > a bull, but takes
them to the bull whose dam has the best
udder he knows. He breeds wonderful pro-
ducers.
IRRIGATION OF LUCERNE.
“H'op Scrub”: There are many wide
areas where lucerne may be grown without
irrigation, but there is probably a greater
acreage along alluvial flats which only
requires irrigation to produce from six to
eight cuttings per year. For areas Tip to
10 acres the spray systems are well adapted.
They can be used on ungraded land, give
an even distribution of water and require
little attention. There are two general sys-
tems, one in which the sprays operate radi-
ally and the other in which parallel strips
are sprayed. The first consists of three- or
four-inch pipes, 22-gauge galvanised iron,
17ft. Gin. long, fitted with short uprights
carrying perforated cones or butterflies. The
pipes may be quickly connected, the suction
pipe and main to the top of the bank being
the only fixed pipes. The sprays cover a
total width of 35ft. The other system uses
smaller and heavier piping furnished with
side nozzles every 3ft. and fixed in perma-
nent position on posts from 3ft. to 12ft.
high. A rectangular strip 17ft. wide is
sprayed, and the pipe is then turned over
by an automatic regulator. A pressure of
from 251 b. to 451 b. per square inch is
required.
The centrifugal is the pump best adapted
for these outfits. It should be placed on a
solid foundation not more than 16ft. above
the water; the nearer the water the higher
the efficiency. For lifts above 40ft. use a
(Continued on page 32.)


rtfOfO*fl~- c l U£l Wy
In buying foodstuffs, quality must
always come first* REX*PYE is the
finest meat in tbe world. Note the
delicate aroma as you open the can
and the delicious flavour as you eat
the dainty.
We could pack a cheaper article to
compete with the imitations of
REX-PYE sold at a lower price. But
we will not do so; for to sacrifice
quality for cheapness is bad policy
for both buyer and seller. The
enormous sale of REX-PYE is due
to its excellent quality.
Put Quality before
cheapness. Always
say REX-PYE .
In lib and |lb cans.
G ITT JONES
(Division of United Provisions
PTY. LTD,
Ltd.)
Curers of the Choice REX Hams and Bacon


JSSslllllfy
1
§§ll
MHR
JglJ
*^p§
jfggfl
■
is: : '^
,
Win
, • •
". . ■ ■.-- ■" /
iiiiilii
.
Hi
•■- ?, *% A
' 'M\
m
i I hi sa i m
m i
< - * i v
IMS" ;•: ■: ' / ' :' .: : . ■■. . •
lv KSS ■ SMS'S- SUSSM
msm. • wm i BMMMIm I® |
~ §y, « ” ’ ;§ . >*<’-' :* v i?‘/< w v * ”, -j ;;
S SS : .. M-1 IMIS- . : Ms
& ■-*. -V ■ • -v '■ * : * . * '.*t '’V
•v
■
: tMISA IMSM
BHMIiHIIniIMMMMHr
sl^PP*JPSllllSliiK
■■r*
IhH|
Sly,.:!: ■ MMS-sls : v*yS'MMSssiMMM.
p/-i : : ' ; S : v ;■■ ' ; '■".■■S S.\ MS.
■
■H|MMI IBIHH 1 " 1 *
£8 m mm
mBSBmm
mBMSKBm
■t—
f#ll!§i§;
SSSS,-.
mhß||
■
/
m
<
t^y
\ v<- :
-
111 l 1
-' • ■■ ■
mmmmA
mtmm
t*;
Sti
■ -S
■H
■
i ||p
I
Nr
19
■
PRICES from £430
jyy


ẃ
JBea ter
*


ẅ
w
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
No disease has caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
yet for less than one-fifth of a penny per sheep this
can now be cured by the application of Carbon
Tetrachloride. This process has been tested by the
Agricultural Departments of various States in Aus-
tralia, and has received their endorseineut. It
requires preparation and additions before it can be
applied to the sheep, and these are skilfully carried
out in
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins ... 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
POST Fit Eli ON FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
■DELIVERED NEAREST RAILWAY STATION
ON FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
ŵ
KANGAROO
RINGLOCK
FENCING
The Strongest Fencing
on the Market!
“KANGAROO” RINGLOCK FENC-
ING is a wonderful improvement on
the ordinary five- or six-line wire
fence, as it is a combination of drop-
pers and laterals. All the wires are
crimped, and the special Ringlock
knot (illustrated above) is formed
around the crosswires, thus making
them absolutely non-slippable. The
fence is, therefore, sheep- and cattle-
proof.
“KANGAROO” RINGLOCK FENC-
ING is heavy 10-gauge galvanised
wire throughout. All the wire has
been specially selected for quality,
strength and heavy galvanising, thus
providing material of extraordinary
resistance to weather, stock, etc.
Send for free fencing Catalogue for further
particulars.
Manufactured by
D. gW. CHANDLER LTD.
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, Vic.
INTERSTATE AGENTS:—
TASMANIA :
W. Hart & Sons Pty., Ltd.,-
Charles Street, Launceston.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
South Australian Farmers’ Co-op.
Union, Ltd.,
36 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
QUEENSLAN I):
Queensland Pastoral Supplies, Ltd.,
Bowen Street, Brisbane.
ẁ
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND AND FINANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
SYDNEY Also at WAGGA & HENTY, LONDON, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE. TOWNSVILLE.
Auction Sales } WOOL, FAT STOCK, GRAIN, SHEEPSKINS,
Throughout the Year I HIDES, TALLOW, FURRED SKINS, etc.
Cash Advances on Pastoral Properties and Stock, Wool, Grain and Produce.
Offices: 4 Bligh Street, Sydney. JAMES KIDD, General Manager for Australia.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED
A.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £250,000
ALL CLASSES OF INSURANCE EFFECTED.
Probate Disability, Extended Insurance, Non-Forfeiture,
Hospital, Medical and Nurse’s Fees Combined.
Make the event which causes the tax create the cash to pay the tax.
HEAD OFFICE: Hunter House, 26 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
MCLEAN, Managing M^" iNoU | R , ES , NTIIED . B - V ' ' io ° TH ' *“’«*’*■
EXAMINATION FOR TOWN AND SHIRE CLERKS.
HPI
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and enter
a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to send for
our Prospectus. Here is one profession where the supply is not equal to the
demand. NOW is the time to begin.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
twin-stage pump to overcome the frictional
resistance from pipes and sprays. Pumps
should always be driven at a definite speed,
specified by the manufacturers, and pulleys
on engine and pump must be adjusted accord-
ingly. The crude-oil engine is the cheapest
available power, costing only a few pence
per hour to run; but a tractor, being a multi-
purpose machine, may in the end be more
economical. The li.p. necessary to drive any
centrifugal pump may be worked out by mul-
tiplying the number of gallons per minute
delivered by the pump by the total lift in feet
(i.e., from water level to top of bank) and
dividing by 3300. This gives water h.p.,
and brake-h.p. will be at least twice that.
This would require 9 h.p. for a 3in. pump on
a 50ft. lift. Tractors develop much higher
ratings. Efficiency and economy are largely
a matter of conditions on the farm, and it
may pay to have a fairly large plant operat-
ing for a short time rather than a small rig
pumping day after day.
The quantities of water to apply vary
with soil type. Light soils require small
quantities of water fairly frequently, perhaps
two irrigations per cutting. Medium soils
one good irrigation per cutting—say Gin. —
is generally enough. The first year a lucerne
crop is growing, keep the water off as long
as possible, even to the yellowing of the
leaves; then irrigate fairly heavily. This
gives the plant a chance to establish a deep-
rooting habit.
CARE OF THE CIRCULAR SAW.
“Bill Pinn”: Put the saw on the arbor
with the pin upwards. Put the collar on;
pull the saw back so that it is firm against
the pin and screw the nut up tight. The nut
should screw on the opposite way to that
which the saw runs. Start your engine, lay a
piece of board across the front of saw, and
put a cut in about an inch. Then hold a
piece of emery or hard sandstone lightly
against the teeth to strip them to an even
length. When every tooth has been touched
cut a little further into the board to see
if the stripping has been done square. If
not, strip again until the cut shows square.
Now take the saw off and set it. A thirty-
second of an inch bare is a good set for wood
saws. Use a gauge to make sure every tooth
has the same amount of set.
Now sharpen the saw. The front of the
teeth should be filed or ground square across
and on a line running through the centre of
saw. More hook or pitch may be given, the
teeth, but in my experience, extending over
30 years, I have found it neither necessary
nor advisable. File the back of the tooth on
a straight line from the point to the gullet
of the following one ; then sharpen by filing
a bevel from the point of the tooth back, the
width of the bevel at the point to be about
one and a half times the thickness of the
saw, running out to nothing in three-quarters
of an inch.
If you use an emery wheel, which is cer-
tainly the best, use a fairly coarse free-
cutting one. Be careful not to press the
saw so hard against it that it blues the metal.
Doing so causes case-hardened spots that
will ruin h new file in a few strokes. It also
hardens the teeth and they are apt to break
in setting.
Don’t file square corners in the gullets, and
keep the gullets all the same depths; other-
wise the saw will get out of balance.
Don’t jab the wood suddenly on to the
saw (there is more danger with small than
large pieces) and don’t force the wood on to
the saw if it starts to rattle in the cut. That
shows it is not on the rim and should be
allowed to cool, or the saw is liable to crack.
A bench with a mooring table is the best
for inexperienced hands. A saw should run
about 9000 feet per minute at the rim (better
under than over), and it should stand straight
up and appear almost stationary to the
operator. If it waves from side to side or
rattles it should be sent to a saw doctor for
repairs.
Watch the bearings. If the one at the
pulley-end gets worn the saw will be out of
line with the table, and cause trouble. Run
the belt as slack as possible and use no
sticky dressing on it. Instead keep belt and
pulleys scraped clean and apply a little castor
oil occasionally. Il'ave the pull on the under
side of the belt.
And finally, when you need a new saw, get
an Australian-made one. They’re good. Fail-
ing that, get a British-made one.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Is water kept in tarry drums injurious
to vegetables or to roots such as rhubarb?
(2) I am planting three acres with passion-
fruit. How do I stand as regards registration?
(3) If I have to register, what will it cost,
and how should I go about it? —1214.
(1) No, but' tar floating on top of the
water or at the bottom of container should
not be applied to plants or vegetables. (2)
N.S.W. orchards, including passion-vines,
over 1-acre must be registered. (3) One shil-
ling per acre or part thereof. Communicate
with Officer-in-Charge, Export and Import
Branch, Department of Agriculture, Sydney.
I have a notion of running tiirkeys in a
citrus grove at Kerang (Vic.). Would they
eat the fruit? Failing turkeys, what would
you suggest in the poultry line? —l447.
It would not be advisable to run turkeys
in a citrus orchard. Owing to their size and
weight they may damage the branches of the
trees and blossom when roosting, though they
probably wouldn’t eat the fruit. In a weli-
kept citrus grove there would not be much
natural food for turkeys, such as green shoots
of grass, or grass and thistle seeds. Turkeys
in the northern areas of Victoria do well
when run on stubble-land. In the Kerang
district it would be profitable to run a flock
of leghorns in a citrus grove ; the trees are
greatly benefited by the manure. Citrus
growers in the Mildura district make the
birds roost in the trees, shifting them to
different trees at intervals. These growers
state that the damage done to the blossom
by the birds is negligible.
Remedy for tapeworms in calves? —ll63.
Oil of turpentine, 2 drachms; powdered
areca nuts, 30 grains; extract of male fern,
20 drops; linseed oil, 4 ounces. This mix-
ture should be given as a drench and re-
peated once weekly for three weeks. Before
treatment the animals should be fasted for
at least 12 hours.
The best way to feed buttei'milk to
porkers ? —1302.
This feed is too watery and too rich in
protein to produce economical gains when
fed alone. It should be fed together with
some grains such as crushed barley or maize,
and it is essential that it should be fed
under sanitary conditions. The quantity
of buttermilk to be fed with maize or other
grain will depend on the age of the pigs
and on the relative price of the feeds. Just
after weaning, 41b. to 61b. of buttermilk to
each lib. of maize is sufficient. As the pigs
grow older, the amount of buttermilk
decreases; for, say, pigs of 501 b. weight, 21b.
to 31b. buttermilk to lib. maize. Pigs fed with
corn and on good pasture need only half
as much buttermilk for each lib. corn. A
full-grown sow could consume from 1 to
2 gallons of buttermilk, together with a
little grain, and be allowed to run on pas-
ture. A standard ration for 10 young pigs
of about 501 b. average live weight is
61b. pollard, 101 b. ground barley, soaked
in 4 gallons of skim milk (equal to butter-
milk), with about 181 b. of fresh-cut green
lucerne. Pollard can be fed sparingly so as
to make a thin gruel, but feeding as men-
tioned will give better results, as this gruel
is only suitable for very young pigs.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Kell” : An easily-made grid that enables
a farmer to lessen the inconvenience of the
gate at the entrance may be constructed
of some old lengths of iron pipe of Sin.
diameter (or more) and a log. Cut the
log into 6ft. lengths, and bed-in these pieces
about 2ft. apart at the farm entrance. Cut
the pipes into lengths sufficiently wide to
carry a vehicle and lay them across the
logs, putting retaining blocks at the ends of
the logs. Pack the pipes together so that
they touch yet roll a little when stepped on.
You will then have a grid that will take a
car, but stock will not attempt to cross,
for when they put their feet on the pipes
the rolling movement frightens them back.
The old gate cannot be destroyed, for it
will still be needed for horses and when
moving stock on or off the property; but
the grid enables a car to be driven straight
through.
“Boronia”: When pruning young trees,
the aim should be to lay the foundation of
a broad and symmetrical base. • Height is
not desirable; it means loss of time and in-
creased expense when the crop has to be
picked. With some trees, which have a
straggly or very upright habit, the business
is difficult. Some pruners tie the limbs in
the desired position. This practice checks
the flow of sap and results in retarded
growth, or, worse still, causes die-back,
After selecting the bud best suited to obtain
the desired direction, leave half an inch of
wood above it. This will give the new
growth a pronounced “throw” and effect the
purpose.
“H.L.G.”: At this season greasy heels are
often troublesome. The first indication is a
swelling in the heel. From this a putrid dis-
charge will spread over the hair on the leg.
Bathe with hot water, to which a little lysol
has been added. Carefully dry; then apply
an ointment composed of equal parts of sul-
phate of zinc and alum, dissolved in a little
water, bandaged to keep clean. _ The oint-
ment should be applied once daily, but the
parts should not be touched with water after
the preliminary washing. No hair should
be clipped from the legs. Continue working,
but not under muddy conditions.
“Brolga”: Here’s my way of straining
barbed-wire on a fence. Gripped with a
hand-vyce and pulled up by block and tackle
100 yards or more at a time, there is no need
to cut the 700-yard roll. After securing the
first strain to posts, release your hold, unwind
more wire and go on in much the same style
as linesmen do when erecting telephone or
telegraph wires. . .
“Awani”: If your turkey flock is in the
habit of straying and staying away at night
get a few white holland (“stay at home )
birds. These turkeys, despite their nom de
plume, don’t stay at home all the time.; they
quickly mix with the bronze-wings and
ramble with them, but they will return
home at night. My birds gave me many a
long walk after dark until, a couple of
years ago, I invested in a few “white hol-
lands.” Since then the flock has never been
guilty of late hours.
“Bushman”: Cape-gooseberry,jam is dear;
yet the fruit will grow wild in many dis-
tricts where it gets a chance to seed. Good
berries will always command a payable
price—there is never any glut; the jam fac-
tories say they could do with more. If you
want berries for jam, go in for Golden Nug-
get, a large variety. Sow the seed in the
spring in beds, and when big enough plant
out in rows about 3ft. apart. They can be
staked or left to ramble. Pruning of useless
growths is advisable, and the cultural treat-
ment resembles that of the tomato.
“Deejay” : For the small man who cannot
afford mucli cash for fertilisers, a crop of
lupins offers a triple harvest; it is a nourish-
ing fodder, a soil cleanser and a green man-
ure. The rate of sowing alone is about
two bushels per acre, or it can be sown in
conjunction with other seeds. When about
2ft. high, grazing is started. The best plan
is to work the stock on to the crop gradually,
trying out with a small patch, testing its
value as a fodder and manure for your par-
ticular district. In Westralia it has increased
the carrying capacity of holdingSi 100 p.c.
“Bill R.” : When emptying the brine-cask
pour the solution over troublesome weeds,
but not in a place accessible to pigs. Oi l
brine containing the juices of meat will kill
animals as well as weeds. Salt-poisoning
symptoms are a refusal to feed, thirst,
vomiting, convulsions and eventual paralysis.
Farm remedies, which may save loss if
applied in time, are stimulants (strong
coffee) and doses of castor oil; give milk to
drink, but no solid food.
“Jace”: There are two ways of catching
a sheep without doing injury—(l) by the
hind-leg above the gambrel-joint (there is a
danger of injury to the leg if caught below
this joint) ; (2)’ placing the hands under the
jaw and around the neck. The former is
the commoner. Never catch a sheep by the
wool. It injures the wool and leaves a
bruise on the carcase.
“Let Go”: Does this pawpaw win? It
weighed 1211 b., and was of excellent quality.
M. Keogh, West End, Townsville, was the
grower.


Speedy changes -
Solids to
Pneumatics
British
Thoroughness
in Leyland
Service
NO. 2
" UVUJfD UUtCi
Send for informative
literature and details of
the Leyland Special
Pattern Stock Service.
SHOULD thfe particular nature of
your work suddenly demand that
you change your Leyland over from solid
to pneumatic tyres, a complete Leyland
system---involving expert mechanics—is
immediately at your disposal; if necessary
on your own premises.
Your vehicle need be held up only a very
short time; necessary parts, are instantly
available from stock.
Recent speedy changes prove the effi-
ciency of this Leyland Service feature.
CHASSIS NOW AVAILABLE:
2i-ton “Badger”; 3|-ton “Beaver”; 3-4-ton
“Terrier”; also 4-ton and 5-ton Models,
Single- and Double-deck ’Buses.
evlandMotors
-tU
Head Office for Australia:
24 Grosvenor Street,
SYDNEY.
Melbourne Depot:
Comer Villiers & Courtney Streets,
NORTH MELBOURNE.
Brisbane Depot:
Grey Street, SOUTH BRISBANE.
w
m
ft
TZ
r
PATTERN STOCK.
No matter what year or make your
Leyland is—your spare part needs
can be met through the Leyland
Pattern Stock. All parts for obso-
lete types can be quickly cast and
forwarded you—just by your order-
ing part numbers.


INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
23.
POUNDS OF PENNIES
“Take care of the pennies, and the pounds will take care of
themselves.” There is more in that old saying than perhaps
you realise. Pennies are more easily come by than pounds;
they are more easily saved, for a penn’orth of self-denial is
easier to practise than a pound’s worth at a time.
Think it out —better still, try it out —the steady, sincere saving
of the small coins; the practical appreciation of the small
things and their cumulative value.
Turn your pennies into pounds by the aid of a Commonwealth
Savings Account and the 4 per cent, per annum interest it pays.
tantonwealtt) Savings lank of Australia
{.Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government,).
EXTRA HIGH GRADE
BMOI6ING 706/9060 ,
/ lts x
ualit
1S
Unequalled
IB per. 2oz Tin
SMOKE-OH!
“Jim Munro has accepted a big contract to ride
in Germany.”
He’s after the Rhine-o presumably.
* *
THE SPENDTHRIFT.
“The Bikkets have come in for money.”
said Mrs. Maggs. “I saw Mrs. Bikkets
buying potatoes this morning.”
* *
“At a recent meeting of timber strikers it was
believed there would be rouble.” —Melbourne Argus.
In fact, it is believed there were thousands
of them at a recent meeting of strike leaders.
It is, after all, the man who writes for a
living who suffers most by his poor relations.
%■ *
“There were many more marriages of a ‘smart’
type this month than there wer? last month.”—
Sydney weekly.
In fact, the lack of June brides was July
remedied.
* *
Fishermen mostly lie like mad,
And truthful racing men are few;
But other sports arc just as had —
Thus golfers like a good “lie" too.
P. O. M. C.
* *
AN AUSTRALIAN PEERAGE.
Apropos the selection by a British laborite of
the title Lord Passfield Corner, a few extracts from
the projected Australian llebrett are offered.
The Premier Peer of Australia at the
moment (n.b., “at the moment” is right) is:
The Master of Waste, Lord Bruce of
Oowf. The founder of this family was an
obscure but blameless soft-goods merchant,
who, unfortunately, contracted an alliance
with the world-notorious bravo :
Baron Hughes of Blithery Blazes. The
ensuing fend between these two has been
compared by the Nationalist historian, Park-
hill (see Archdale ParkhilPs “Boom and
Slump of the Bligh-street Empire.” Vol.
XIV, p. 450), to that between the Basher-
Montague and Stousher-Capulet families of
Surry Hills. It has caused ink to flow like
water. Early in the Renascence, or Post-
War Period, the Master of Waste, who had
by then got his golf handicap down to 10
(Baron Hughes being then on the 24 mark),
was joined by :
Earl Page, a member of an eminent family
of political Necromancers. He was a Chirur-
geon or Healer by calling, and he consented
to apply his 'art to the National Finances.
Within a few years, by certain secret pro-
cedures, he had increased the country’s
already colossal Debt by nearly £90,000,000,
thus enabling it to take rank with the
Pyramids of Egypt. He was given whole-
hearted assistance in his work by:—
Lord Jock Garden, who will go down to
police-court fame as instigator of the
Garden Riots. Lord Jock, though handi-
capped by his inability to speak the national
language, has done good work for the cause
of Lord Bruce and Earl Page by identifying
their enemies with the Basher Gangs. Lord
Bruce has recommended him for an 0.8.
(Order of the Boot), and there are hopes
that the Crown may award it shortly.
Other names to be found in Australia’s
Dedrett are:—
Earl Ned of Warrenheip, Lord of the
Eleven-ton Trucks. Lord John Allan of the
Ivyabram Marshes. The Earl of Angus,
Lord Director of the Irrigation Channels.
And the Marquess Clapp, who ranks in the
Victorian peerage as Earl Harold of the
Railways.
S. C. M.
# *
THE SUITABLE SUITOR.
“Your father, I hear, is as rich as a hank,
And I’m hut a poor plumber's lad."
“You’ll do, dear,” she said, “for my father's
a tank,
And my mother is equally had.”
D. A.
*
FELINE MEMORIES.
“My dear, your dress looks sweet —even
more so than when I saw you in it at the
Spring Meeting before last!”
“Yes, I know your dad —many’s the time
I’ve bought things from the little corner
shop he used to have.”
“No, I haven’t met your husband since he
married you; but I used to see,a lot of him
before Mary Jones refused him.”
“I remember you at school. I used to
think then, like the silly little girl I was,
how wonderful it would be to be as old as
you were.”
“How do you do, Mrs. Park-Brown? You
certainly have a nicer home now than when
you lived in tlis ’Loo.”
“Well, well, fancy you being a parson,
Augustus! I suppose you’ve quite forgotten
that time you were run in for being drunk
and disorderly.”
Doric.
COMING NEXT MONTH.
Australia’s 100 per cent, talkie, “Money to
Burn,” starts at the Canberra Parliament
de Luxe next month.
Starring Stan Bruce (the Political Valen-
tino), “Girlie” Page and He-Man Scullin.
Billy Boy, the North Shore idol, helps to
make the film one long, poignant, heart-
throb for taxation fans.
S. O.
*
THE DISABILITY.
A man can count uncounted gold,
And feci his spirits mount;
And many do it, I am told.
I don't; /’ne none to count.
S.
UNNATURAL HISTORY.
FIRST FLEA: “Why did you leave the little flapper if she was so
tender?”
SECOND FLEA: “Her new dress wouldn’t hide a microbe.”
“Macpherson bore his abuse without saying a
word.”
Didn’t give a Hoots, mon, evidently.
N.S.W. civil servants have been forbidden
to take time off for afternoon-tea. There
will be less stirring in the Somnolent Ser-
vice than ever now.
*
“We look back upon our storied pest.”.—Evening
News.
When we get past our storied pest, we go
for our lives.
Through business troubles and mental strain
Jones often displays emotional stress;
But lie is soon himself again,
If a girl displays emotional dress.
O. W. W.
The pickets are the voluntary timber-
workers' Garden angels.
¥ *
OUTING THE ’FLU.
(Directions by our Health Expert.)
(1) Don't go near crowds. If you are 3
shop-assistant or waiter or barmaid resign
and go in for light housekeeping.
(2) Don’t ovei'-eat. All over-taxed stomach
breeds poisons. . . ,
(3) Don’t under-eat. Malnutrition breeds
poisons. .
(4) Don’t eat the wrong things, lliey are
poison. Suitable foodstuffs for workers are
caviare (best Russian), fresh salmon
(Scotch) and English game-birds such as
snipe, woodcock and pheasant. See that you
get them. They
may mean the dif-
ference between life
and death to you.
(5) Cultivate
the companionship
of your felloic-
man. At the same
time, in accord-
ance with Direc-
tion 1, avoid your
fellow -man as
much as pos-
sible.
(6) Be vigilant.
Wash and gargle
frequently. Avoid
touching door-
handles, knives,
forks, articles of
clothing, etc., that
may carry infec-
tion. Don’t kiss
or shake hands
with people. Spray
yourself and your
acquaintances free-
ly with disinfec-
tants. At the same
time refrain from
brooding over the epidemic. Put it entirely
out of your mind.
(7) Be cheerful. Keep serene. It is your
duty to yourself and your fellow-citizens,
Let us suppose someone lias sneezed in
your face within the fatal liring-range of
three feet, and that you have been unable
to evade the barrage of infected droplets.
Smile brightly before laying the offender out.
Keep on smiling as you hurry home to bed.
Continue to smile while the influenza, the
doctor, your spiritual adviser and death
make their successive appearances. Try to
leave a smiling face for the undertaker.
Rollers-skaters are having a lot of ups and
downs in Sydney just now.
*
THE CONFLICTING VOICES.
“I have met hundreds of cases where men have
been dying of starvation.”— D. L. McDonald in S. M.
Herald.
“This is what I saw at Kurri Kurri: Starving
miners crowding out the hotel bars, a football
match well patronised, more than a hundred and
fifty cars parked outside.” — Observer.
It was heartrending to see men collapsing
for want of food at the wheels of their Rolls-
AT THE STAGE DOOR.
“They tell me Harry Elliker has a new baby."
“’M, has he? The old dog—what show’s she inf”
Royces. “I’ll give you £lOOO for the filly,
gasped a living skeleton in race-glasses and
a grey top-hat. The Rev. Wowl, of the
Bbenezer Soup Kitchen, tried to force nour-
ishment between the dying sportsman’s ashen
lips. “Nothing doing,” said his friend, and,
snatching a bone from a passing dog, he
gnawed it wolfislily. “However,” he went
on, “you can have her brother for £BOO.
“Done,” said the famished wretch in the tall
hat, arid produced his cheque-book, only to
fall unconscious on the floor. “As I feared,
muttered the doctor. “Starvation! It’s the
third case I’ve had from Government House
this week.”
Bloggs.
OLD FAVORITES AMENDED.
“Should auld acquaintance he forgot,”
Trilled the girl to her cooling swain.
“My lawyer, then, will make things hot.”
And now they're engaged again.
“I dreamt I dwelt in marble halls,”
Sang the punter on the hill;
But hurdle racers have many falls,
And he’s dwelling in lodgings still.
“Drink to me only with thine eyes,”
Grooned the Scotchman in tones intense.
'Twas his shout, and he thought the plea
was tcisc,
Since each drink cost eightcenpence.
TREVDEE.
THE PURSUIT OF HAPPINESS
.Tack Nod was worried. Time, he was
earning a steady £4 10s. a week, but he
owed, three months' instalments on his car,
THE OLD EXCUSE REACHES THE
ZOO.
LADY JACKO: “How ever did Mr. Giraffe get
that black eye?”
SIR JOHN JACKO: “Well, he says he was
chopping the wood when an aeroplane
flew up and hit him!”
and his landlady was continually nagging at
him and....
Mr. Nod was worried. He had risen in the
world, but £2O a week didn’t go far. There
was the new £lOOO limousine, and he had
promised his wife a fur coat, and he was
overdrawn £7 15s. 6d. at the bank, and the
Big Hit Golf Club wanted his overdue sub-
scription and....
John Nod, Esq., was worried. He had
been fairly successful, but an income of
£15,000 a year didn’t mean much these days.
He was overdrawn £12,000 at the bank and
his wife had bought a diamond necklace and
charged it to him, and Flossie, his secretary,
had spent £9OO on her new flat, and the
business had only paid 7 per cent., and he
would have to subscribe £5OOO if that knight-
hood wasn’t to go west, and....
, Sir John Nod, K.C.M.G., was no longer
worried. He had a nice little room to him-
self and nothing to do but laugh, and add
up figures.... And the keeper said he
wasn’t a bit of trouble so long as they were
careful to address him as “Mr. Rockefeller.”
R. C. H.
THE RUSSO-CHINESE WAR.
Hostilities Begin at Tsh-Tsk.
(Inside story by our special Commissioner
at the Front.)
War was declared at mid-day. Shortly after
lunch Comrade Madurowski and liis Bash-
kis drove into Tsh-Tsk in a stolen P.D. car
and threw several tons of Communist litera-
ture at the Town Hall. Five minutes later
the red flag flew from the post office.
Comrade li’o-I-Go rushed from his shop.
“By Cli,” he spluttered irritably. “Com-
rade Madulowski he go too far. Alicejsamee
smashce my opium pipe with Vol. LXXVII
of Charley' Marx. I telle© him off ploper.”
“Too li,” agreed a friend. “Him dlivee
over wegetable garden with his Bashkis.
“Calico out gardeners!” cried Ho-I-Go.
“We teachee Russian manners. He no dlivee
over wegetables.”
Comrade Madurowski had by this time
found a soap-box, and was making a speech
from it.
A light shower was fall-
ing and the Russian com-
rades now saw what appear-
ed to be a dark field of
mushrooms hearing down on
them. Not a man could be
seen ; the umbrellas hid them
effectively.
“Sing,” roared Madurow-
ski. “Make speeches. Pour
revolutionary tracts on
them.”
The umbrella-bearers were
checked by the barrage, but
the recent desecration of the
vegetables, was fresh in their
minds and they rallied again.
Another minute and they
were in the town. They used
their chopsticks with hideous
skill, and the battle might
have resulted in several
bruises had not the rain at
that moment turned into a
downpour. The Russians
fled back to s Russia for their
macintoshes; the Chinese re-
turned to their gardens. As
this cable leaves all is quiet
on the Asiatic front.
R.J.O.


m
6
v-
#3l
m
x
m
Zk
Famous People-
II
and a Famous Medicine
ABOVE is Charles Farrell, famous Fox Star—
“ a very remarkable fellow ! ” He is here seen
precariously perched on a high bicycle in a
“ race ” with a Ford tractor ! Become “ a
remarkable fe;llow ” yourself, by following the
film-stars’ example and taking Cream of Yeast.
ON THE RIGHT is Nancy Carroll, a com-
parative newcomer to the ranks of famous Fox
players. We predict great success for her with
that winning “ Cream of Yeast smile 1 ”
Cream of Yeast is a genuine way to better
Health —the remedy chosen by famous
people who dare not let headaches, “bad
nerves 99 and dull complexions take their toll.
Cream of Yeast is a produd of chemical skill and
great resources; it is improbable that, for average
needs, a more beneficial medicinal tablet could be
made ; it is certain that this remedy gives satisfaction
to the public; it is a positive fad that it is safe.
Take Cream of Yeast when tired and depressed. Take
it for aches and pains, “ nervy spells,” sour stomach,
listlessness and dull complexion. Do not suppose
plain brewers’ yeast can give the same benefits. Re-
member: this remedy is a medicinal yeast-compound,
costing more to make than plain yeast tablets, yet
costing you no more. Your money back if the very first
bottle oj Cream of Yeaft doesn y t do you a 'world of good!
What Famous Medical Men Say
In an interview in one of the greatest newspapers in the
world, Dr. Victor Pauchet, a leading French Physician,
Commander of the Legion of Honour, recipient of the
Croix de Guerre , recommends Yeast as a remedy for
intestinal stagnation. He says : —“ Yeast ... is a food
rich in Vitamin B and increases vitality. It is thus a boon
to the health of humanity .”
In a London interview reported in another great news-
paper, Dr. Leonard Williams, Fellow of the Royal Society
of Medicine, educated in England, Scotland, France and
Germany, and well-known author of several books on
Health, said “ I frequently see people who , though they
claim to be well, are nevertheless much below concert pitch.
YEASTS' IIIE
t
PA_Ri;, July ti.—Dr. Victor **»•
» ahet. <n*tltifuUhe<l French mod*-
l fXtoniiMt. announce* UxUy f J>r. *>r a i i '-'Z3 Cim
- . •■£*>
'rnw o* k* r,,,l *i* **
t-
D*, VTCTO* TAtXTTXT. i^?o ***?«/ - i
naUoft. Hl*H«.th» tot • Uvcr
r«cocnm«nd« Vea«fj«-a HOWl v ' ‘-rfßJ* J
They are not ill , but they ail. For such people 1 should recom-
mend less feasting and more yeasting! Yeast is more than a
medicament —-it rouses the system to full physiological efficiency
of assimilation
:
AT THE LEFT George O’Brien, talented Fox Star,
casts an expert eye at the golf clubs. See him in
“ Speakeasy,” a night-life drama. Follow the film-stars’
example —Exercise and Cream of Yeast !
AT THE RIGHT we introduce you to Rex Bell, a real
Fox hero of the “ wild and woolly West.” Does he
take Cream of Yeast ? . . . Well, look at that smile !
Take Cream of
Yeast yourself for
Thrilling Health !
Take it for Head-
aches, Indigestion,
Sleeplessness , Bad
Cream
Nerves, Poor Complexion. Any Chemist can
supply you. 24 Tablets, 1/11, 48, 3/6,
125 for 5/9.
of Yeast
AT THE RIGHT is
pretty June Marlowe,
“Universal” featured
player. She says Cream
of Yeast is wonderful
when feeling “ below
par.”
ŵ
CREAM
YEAST
If not near a Chemist >- order Cream of least by Post
from Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building, Sydney.


1
The most popular
Super'Six
ever built
CHALLENGER
w
ESSEX
SUPER
ESSEX PRICES AT SYDNEY.
5 Balloon Tyres Standard Equipment.
Tourer (Australian Body) £290
Standard Sedan (Australian Body) 365
Standard Roadster (Australian Body) 290
Coupe (Imported Body) 385
Convertible Coupe (Imported Body) 395
Town Sedan (Imported Body, with
bumper bars)
420
VEN the tremendous capacity of the
Hudson factory—in which Essex the
Challenger is built—is strained to supply the
sweeping demand for this big, fine Super-Six.
Keen judges of motor car values pronounce
it the outstanding value in all motordom,
not only in speed and performance, but
in beauty, comfort, economy and variety of
body styles. We shall be glad to place Essex
the Challenger at your disposal to drive and
test in any way you choose.
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Stret, Sydney.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
MOTORS LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
AUTOS LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


-
■
u
• I ■'•• -
I
I
{
mm
.is :
JHB :^-
-*- ■
ŵ
The K.P.M. invites you to wonder and wander in Java and
Sumatra, islands of exotic attractions.
Glorious days at sea, the comforts and conveniences of the
great Liners Nieuw Holland and Nieuw Zeeland will be a
delightful holiday for you.
The steamer is your hotel for the round voyage.
Full particulars from
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY
(K.P.M. Line),
255 George Street, Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., 11l William Street, Melbourne; Dalgety & Co., Brisbane;
Elder, Smith & Co., Adelaide and Perth.
N.Z. PERPETUAL FORESTS, LTD.
THE WORLD’S LARGEST COMMERCIAL FORESTRY CO.
SUBSCRIBED SHARE CAPITAL £240,640
SUBSCRIBED BOND CAPITAL £3,350,000
FUNDS LODGED WITH TRUSTEES £350,000
BANKERS—THE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND AND THEIR AGENTS.
SOLE BROKERS—SMITH, WYLIE AND CO., LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: KEMBLA BUILDING, MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN BRANCHES AT MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE,
PERTH, HOBART AND NEWCASTLE.
NFW ZEALAND BRANCHES—AUCKLAND, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH AND DUNEDIN;
AND AT 36-38 NEW BROAD STREET, LONDON, E.C.2; JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA;
BOMBAY INDIA; SINGAPORE; KUALA LUMPUR, FEDERATED MALAY STATES.
THE WORKS OF
Robert Louis Stevenson
S 3
mm
15
volumes
Free on Jlpproval!
These are Masterpieces of Romantic Fiction
In this Ballantrae Edition we have the flower of Stevenson’s genius and the ideal
Set of his Works. These books are printed in a type easy to read and are attractively
illustrated by famous artists. They have charming Literary Introductions by living
Authors. Best of all, they are quite astonishingly light to handle and are of a size
that can easily be slipped into the pocklet.
Stevenson makes his readers think, as no other pro-
fessedly romantic writer does. The reader who
wants to keep from his mind unpleasant but salu-
tary reflections must by no means allow himself to
read “R.L.S.” If he does so, his thought will
invariably clarify and become deep and true. Steven-
son is not afraid to touch the occult, the things
that are beyond Nature. Has he not given us the
frightful, intensely gripping story of Jekyll and
Hyde, a remorseless study of the moral downfall
of an attractive man who, “when he had reached the
years of reflection, stood already committed to a
profound duplicity of life”? This wonderful book
was first made famous by a sermon preached in St.
Paul’s Cathedral in London. Stevenson, like another
great English writer, prefers men to green fields;
but his brief descriptions of Nature (even the
nature of a fog!) are as finely distinctive as every-
thing he wrote. Th? man himself was one of the
most lovable characters among the literary men of
all time, or of any country. His personal life was
an object-lesson on that kindness with courage which
is the rarely strong ideal he preaches in his vivid
stories.
Here is
Another
Wonder
Book—
—also
Available
on
Approval
ẁ
You need not send money. You can have these books sent free on approval for 7
days by posting the coupon to-day below. The prices are very small for such splendid
productions. Have them sent you and examine them at your leisure.
POST THIS COUPON TO-DAY.
BRITISH BOOKS, LTD.,
UNION HOUSE, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. . ' „ T .
Please send me for 7 days free approval ... (fill in which desired) If Ido
not desire to purchase I will return them at the end of 7 days. If I keep them I will forward
a deposit at the end of 7 days and payment as shown below.
NAME
ADDRESS
PRICES- Stevenson (15 vols.), Deposit 5/-, 10 monthly payments of 7/6 (Cash 73/6).
. Dictionary (1 vol.), Deposit 2/6, 6 monthly payments of 6/3 (Cash 36/-)- Dictionary
(leather), Deposit 5/-, 8 monthly payments of 6/3 (Cash 50/-). 123
Pen and Picture
The
STARE
THEATRES
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Shadow Shows
The Bulletin is tired of talking about
the noisies with regard to their vocal quali-
ties, but it will have to repeat the offence
in discussing “The Valiant” (Fox). This
is said to be the best talkie bearing the pure,
dyed-in-the-wool Hollywood brand to date. If
so, the vocal lilm, American style, still has
a long way to go before it catches up with
the legitimate stage. The Americans, it
seems, are able to can everything success-
fully but their squeak. In “The Valiant.”
the characters all talk very carefully and
slowly, as if they were coming out of a
bout of twilight sleep. If they don’t, they at
once become unintelligible, and when the
heroine (Marguerite Churchill) registers
emotion her voice rises to a shrill falsetto
and becomes as faint as a ghost’s. The
deliberate dialogue naturally slows down the
action because it would be absurd for an
actor to rush excitedly to and fro and at
the same time talk as if he were dictating
to a stenographer afflicted with writers’ cramp.
The result is that a fine dramatic story,
which should easily hold the interest if done
in the old silent way, becomes a grand bore
when vocalised. Paul Muni, as the missing
son who pre-
fers to go to
the electrocu-
tion chair un-
id e ntified
rather than
distress liis ma,
does the only
thing with his
part possible
in the circum-
stances that
is to say, he
tries to con-
vey emotion by
not displaying
any. It is a
kind of affirma-
tion - by - nega-
tion method.
One of its
most convinc-
ing exponents
was Guy Bates
Post. If a char-
acter rushed
on and told
MARGUERITE
CHURCHILL.
would be a dead man in a minute, Post
would leisurely take out liis watch, pause
for 20 seconds and remark, “Well, I have
40 seconds left!”
Lamia was a being in the shape of a
woman-serpent, who had the power of chang-
ing her appearance and enticing by her arts
her mortal lovers to their doom. In “The
Wild Party,” Clara Bow is the Hollywood
version of this ancient myth. She is a
student in one of those remarkable colleges
which exist nowhere in America but on the
screen. Dressed in costumes which would
cause adverse comment if worn in a Paris
cabaret, she attends classes and devotes her-
self to the congenial task of vamping the
austere young professor of anthropology. In
this she succeeds, and despite his frequent
and earnest expression of the most exalted,
not to say priggish, ideas, he falls in heartily
with her desire to be hugged in the privacy
of his rooms. Nevertheless, he is dissatisfied
with her moral state, and in order to show
her courage she allows herself to be expelled
from college for the misdemeanor ot
another girl. The professor of anthropology,
however, has seen through her pretence of
wickedness into her beautiful soul and
catches the same train, informing her just
before the final closeup of the concluding
hug that he proposes to take her to Malaya
where (here insert sub-title 49987 a, sub-
section Q). “The Wild Party” is a 100 p.c.
talkie;’but the dialogue is so poor that in
this case at any rate the screen has been
given its raucous tongue only in order to
reveal its empty mind.
“The Man I Love” (Paramount) is a
talkie in which unusually good use is made
of the dramatic elements of the boxing-ring.
The boxer-hero is excellently sustained by
Richard Arlen, and the several fights look
as dinkum as the real thing sometimes does
not. The story flows to its end without
any unnecessary side-tracking, and the
photography throughout is splendid. In
earlier talkies the poorness of the photo-
graphy was remarkable ; it seemed that with
the addition of noise, the movies jumped
back 20 years or more, to flicker and blur.
Here it is clean throughout. Also, because
it is a fight picture, and nearly all the
characters belong to the ring or the_ ringside
in America, the nasal twang, which does
get irritating at times, rather aids in con-
vincing, and it is for itsi convincing qualities
that the picture can be commended. Arlen’s
Dum-dum Brooks, marrying young, fighting
his way to the front, then falling an easy
victim to a vampish semi-society lady, rings
quite true.
The other day a Bulletin man stayed in
his seat when 90 p.c. of the house departed,
just to see why his compatriots flee the Aus-
tralian quota as if it were the plague. On
the basis of what he saw he came to the
melancholy conclusion that, human nature
being what it is, the fugitives could not
be blamed. An effort by the Maoriland
Government called “The Sky Riders”
sounded promising. It purported to reveal
the state of aviation in the Shivery Isles.
One is glad to know that the sister dominion
is keeping its tail up in the air even if the
force displayed in the picture comprised
only five small ’planes. But glimpses of the
innards and outwards of a few machines
which may not even be particularly up-to-
date come somewhat as anti-climaxes after
imported pictures showing Hollywooden
heroes stepping from Fokkers on to the
.backs of express trains. Nor are the scemcs
distributed by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment more calculated to keep a sophisticated
audience in its seats. The Adelaide railway
station may be a meritorious edifice, but,
coming after a picture in which a 30-storey
skyscraper is apparently sent up m
flames merely to provide a background tor
a love affair between Frederic March and
Clara Bow. a photo of that station is hardly
likely to exercise an irresistible appeal.
And most of the other quota pictures look
as if they had been made by people without
, imagination or interest in their job.
The Palette
“F.S.”: Was there a Velasquez or Titian
in the history of abo. art (B. 24/7/’29) V
A careful perusal of the exhibition in Mel-
bourne reveals that Binghi’s most arresting
attempts to record the world around him
were obtained by means which required no
exercise of his optical powers at all. The
famous “red hands” were produced by plac-
ing Iris own hand against a rock, filling his
mouth with ochre and spraying it against
the outspread digits. Similarly, when lie
drew a fish, or even a kangaroo, he simply
laid the dead animal' on a slab and traced
the outline. Drawings which puzzled anthro-
pologists for a long time turned out merely
to be outlines traced round tile hams of a
sitting person, probably by himself. They
were self-portraits, but taken from an
unusual angle.
Tom Garrett’s first Adelaide show was
highly successful, though the painter, with
his usual bashfulness, did not go near it.
Il’is wash of color, green or brown, shows a
delicate fancy hovering between the ideas
of Hilder and the charms of Turner. Per-
haps the best pictures on view are three
lent by McEwin, an Adelaide alderman,
who got in early as a Garrett patron ; but
the rest were nearly all sold within a week.
“F.S.”: Baldwin Spencer’s patronage of
art, mentioned by a host of biographers who
are not artists, was a mixture of aestheti-
cism and business shrewdness. When the
lamented Prof, exhibited his collection in
Melbourne a few years ago he cleared £2OOO
out of sales.
An engaging exhibition of camera pictures
has been held by the N.S.W. Photographic
Society at the Education Gallery. Many of the
exhibits could endure comparison with a lot of
the etchings one sees in current shows, and in
the treatment of such architectural topics as
the Sydney Harbor bridge the camera in the
hands of experts; like Harold Cazneaux and
Arthur Ford leaves the pen standing. Away
from the bridge, Cazneaux proves that the
eye which sees a city as all straight lines
and angles is seeing true. The rich contri-
butions included a lovely wave and shadowy
bits of bush by Arthur Smith, sweeping
landscapes by Donald Brown and foot-
marked sandhills by J. H. Simmons. Fine
reproductions of paintings and a study of a
camera-man by C. W. Bostock and several
excellent portraits by Monte Luke deserve
mention, though the show all through held
a high standard.
“Coot”: Celebrated his 76th birthday
recently, C. Douglas Richardson, painter and
sculptor, who is represented in the Melbourne
Art Gallery by “O Grave, Where Is Thy Vic-
tory?” and in many Vic. public places by
war memorials. Richardson is a Royal
Academy medallist. His wife is the equally
versatile Margaret Baskerville.
The Inky Way
Now R. Exon Butcliart has caught the eye
of Edward J. O’Brien, who publishes annu-
ally in England and America “The Best
Short Stories of the Year,” with biographi-
cal notes of the best short-story writers. It
is a vivid sea-tale in The Bulletin that
has captured Mr. O’Brien’s' fancy.
“I. Pushpen”: Itecrudescenee in Aus-
tralia of healing as a side-line to religious
revival recalls the vogue of Hickson.
Punch (now deceased) proposed to give
the healer a page of sketches, and sent an
artist to mix with the crowd at St. Paul’s
Cathedral, Melbourne. Guardian satellites of
the star performer spotted the sketcher’s
note-pad as he crouched in the choir stalls,
and ordered him forth, with demands for his
sketches. When he protested, two muscular
clerics threw him out into Swanston-street.
Healers have slumped since then. It would
not be the sketcher the church militant
would throw out to-day.
“P.X.”: George Green, the timidest little
man that ever shrugged a shoulder, has left
the Australian Inky AVay for good. He had
the great chance of his life when nearly
40 years ago his friend Stephens sent him
to Broken Hill to manage the Times, the
big town’s first paper—the ex-missionary
Alexander Riddel had founded it. But the
hew mining town was far too rough and
raw for the little man and for Stephens;
they sold out to the B. H. Argus, and Green
returned to Victoria to spend a lifetime
buying and selling country and suburban
papers.
“C.Q.”: “Singapore,” said a sober-minded
Scottish journal recently, “has a boa-con-
strictor that has swallowed a young lady
who wore at the time a diamond necklace
worth 15,000 dollars. The young lady is of
no value now, but the necklace is; so about
30,000 natives are diligently searching for
the boa-constrictor.” When the file contain-
ing this gem reached Singapore local news-
papers solemnly denied the story. No doubt,
the Scots editor gently . closed ' one eye and
murmured something ajboot the Sassenach
and his sense of humor.


ẃ
“Slips along smoothly, doesn’t she?”
“Oh, you mean the car.... 1 was looking
at the poster. . ...
“That slips along smoothly, too!”
“You use a Valet yourself?”
“Never used any other since I started
shaving.”
“Why so faithful?”
“Because it never lets me down. You
see, the blades are —”
“Ah, the blade’s the thing!”
“ —are stropped to perfection automati-
cally by a device in the razor itself.”
“Sounds good. But I’ve no time in the
mornings.”
“Don’t need it! Ten seconds on the strop
without taking anything to pieces gives
you a blade as good as new.”
“Sounds ideal now! Where can I—?”
“ Any dealer’s. 3/ '» or 22/6 f 0
entire set, all with the same principle.”
KEEP THE
BLOODSTREAM CLEAN-
I
FRUIT SALT
?!
ft;
m
WJ
• 4
remove the
poisons of
yesterday
from the system
ẅ
For Any Travel
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
In co-operation with
WAGONS-UTS CO.
w
PASSAGES
By all lines, all routes, all classes,
at bedrock fares. No booking fees.
TO EUROPE 1930
As berthing plans for all steamers
are open, BOOK. NOW to ensure
comfort on the voyage.
ESCORTED EUROPEAN TOURS
We offer choice of a dozen different
tours leaving Australia in February,
March and April, at fares to suit all
purses. Apply for special pro-
gramme.
WINTER TOURS
To Queensland, Java, Siam, Japan,
• Hawaii, California, Indo-China,
Ceylon, etc.
TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
A boon to travellers, safe, conveni-
ent, good everywhere. Apply for
particulars.
SAILING LISTS
Programmes and all information
post free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE: 269 Collins Street. PERTH: Forrest Place, opp. G.P.O.
SYDNEY: Martin Place. . AUCKLAND: Queen Street.
ADELAIDE: 49 Grenfell Street. WELLINGTON: Corner Hunter and
BRISBANE: Adelaide Street. Featherston Streets.


m
m
i
m p?#l;
w
for BOOKINGS & SERVICE
J gel in touch with
T* GOVT TOURIST BUREAU
ẁ
15he
W. W. GREENER
GUN,
VALUE £lOO,
Shot for at the Melbourne Gun Club,
was won by
V. ECKFORD,
NEW SOUTH WALES
GUN CLUB.
W. W. GREENER, LTD.,
BIRMINGHAM.
Australian Wholesale Representatives:
w. P. THOMPSON & CO. PTY., LTD.,
405 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
Catalogues on application.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Parsee (3 to 1) credited Highland’s owner,
Mrs. Buxton, with first prize. Parsee isn’t
in the Highland stable, being trained at
Caulfield by a son of M. T. McGrath. He
was a trifle lucky to win, as Waicullus
(second) got into difficulties near the home
turn.
Mosstrooper lias an excellent chance of
equalling Sir Alogy’s 1928 achievement by
landing the Australian Steeplechase as well
as the hurdle race. He has most to fear from
Seafit, who lost the Steeplechasers’. Flat at
Caulfield by a mere lialf-neck; Quick Deal
(6 to 1), whose bad jumping at the Valley
had cost Hugh Cairns his life, beat him.
Sandhurst made the running in the Steeple-
chasers’ Flat, but did not see out the dis-
tance. He may be anchored by 12st. 71b. over
a journey of 34 miles. Namera, who ran
second to Willanjie (4 to 1) in the Moondah
Steeple, is essentially a stayer, and will
take a lot of beating.
For the second day at Caulfield :
Australian Steeplechase: Mosstrooper;
next, Seafit.
Balaclava Stakes: Glynllyn; next,
Nawallali.
* i|! <: #
Aussie was sired in Australia by Fortafix,
an English stallion that won a few handicaps
for the late Charles Watson in Perth, but
did not race in his native country till Satur-
day, when he was saddled up for the Denham
Court Handicap at Warwick Farm. A very
plain, though substantially built, bay, lie did
not look like a sprinter, and McSliortodds
was noticeably anxious to lay him at twos,
lengthening the price to 5 to 2 although
there was plenty of money for him. The
top weight (he had fist. 131 b., the minimum
being 7st,), was ridden by Pike, who got
him away well and had him running second
to Sliankara after two of the six furlongs
had been traversed. But Aussie had to go
his hardest to catch the tliree-year-old, who
was receiving 161 b. from him, and when he
had settled Tindall’s youngster lie could not
withstand a challenge from Killarney (7 to
1), to whom lie was giving a stone. So
Killarney—a good horse, but by no means a
great one' —beat him handily by three-
Under the Whip
Mosstrooper deserves high credit for his
V.A.T.C. Australian Hurdle victory. Second
favorite at fours, he had the race won when
he deposed Sir Eaton six furlongs from home.
Sir Eaton and Longlands lost lengths at the
start, but Tom Butler took advantage of
the pottering pace to rush Sir Eaton to the
front before they passed the stand for the
first time. He tried to slip the field, but
Bert Thompson on Mosstrooper was merely
humoring him with control. The only excit-
ing phase was when Longlands challenged
at the home turn, and got within two
lengths of Gus Powell’s chestnut; however,
Mosstrooper had lots of reserve energy, and
drew away again. Bert Thompson got the
mount at the eleventh hour through a
remarkable succession of misadventures.
Murrell incurred suspension at the mid-week
Aspendale fixture. Powell then engaged Ted
Webster, but that jockey became ill on
Friday night. Thompson, an expert jump-
ing rider who had been out of luck, seized
the chance opportunity with both hands.
May Day failed badly. The Sydney-owned
gelding had shaped well in the Grand
National Hurdle and vanquished Kentle in
the Doutta Galla at Flemington. On Satur-
day odds of 5 to 2 were cheerfully accepted
about the son of Flippant, but he never
seemed able to warm up properly. Stamina
enabled Longlands to gain second place.
Many critics had pronounced him lame ot
Moonee Valley on the previous Saturday;
needless to say, their diagnosis was inaccu-
rate.
Albanian, an imported stallion trained by
Harry McOalman for G. L. Scott, revealed
pace in the early stages of the Malakoff
Stakes. Jack Holt saddled up Highland
and the W.A. Derby winner, Second Wind.
There was no money for either Albanian or
Second Wind, but Highland had support
at 12 to 1. Billy Duncan, newly relicensed,
nearly registered a first-up triumph on High-
land, who succumbed by a head to old Affirm
(6 to 1) after a ding-dong tussle. The
favorite, Beauliania, shaped as badly as
May Day had done in the Australian Hurdle.
Second Wind carries the E. Lee Steere livery.
H’e is a lighter chestnut than Eurythmic was,
and built on different lines, but looks a
good ’un all the same.
Murthong, brother to Manfred, broke a
long series of outs by appropriating* the
Crimea Trial, for which Clear Ice, owned
by bookmaker Mannie Lyons, was in better
demand; Murthong went out at 11 to 2.
Clear Ice contracted a stitch half way. Show-
ing marked progress on previous efforts. Mur-
thong came home a comfortable winner from
John Wren’s Silent Quest. Backed with
unfaltering spirit for the Mornington Welter,
NEVER SAY DIE.
OPTIMISTIC HALF (to obliterated full-back): “Stick it, Jimmy; don’t let ’im bluff yer!”
quarters of a length, Sliankara being the
same distance away third and Ticino fourth.
There were 21 starters and the time was
linin. 13 sec^
Aussie can be improved, but lie will have
to improve a ton to beat the Limerick that
Sydney knows. Limerick must have been
dreadfully out of form when the Porta fix
gelding downed him in Maoriland. Gay
Ballerina, who was unbacked, showed great
pace for a few furlongs. She is a shapely
brown filly, but little more than a pony.
Killarney was ridden by McCarten and is
trained by Price, who headed the list of
successful N.S.W. trainers last season.
Bartle, who was again on top among the
jockeys last year, also started the new racing
year well by riding the winner of the Farm
Stakes, Autumn Balloon (9 to 2), who
proved too slippery for the favorite, Palamon.
Palainon may turn out the better horse
over a distance (he is by Spearhead—Blue
Dome).
Sir Ribble (6 to I), a Queensland-bred
colt (he is by Seremond —Ribble) came with
a great and successful run in the Maiden
Three-year-old Handicap after having seemed
hopelessly out of it. He may be a Derby
possibility, but the stable that shelters him
is believed to have something better in
Comanche. Blather (5 to 1), who had failed
so often that people had grown tired of
backing him, scrambled home in the August
Handicap from Garrula (5 to 1), whose
bookmaker-owner threw in for a good stake.
Tidal, who ran out wide when he Inked
dangerous, was third. Lord Kennaquhair
was a poor fourth and Lucy Thrice ran as
if she were weary of racing.
* * s|: #
A big crowd at Canterbury Park on Mon-
day saw Eden Hall win the Holiday Handi-
cap for Trautwein from little Nobbys and
Benaroon. The horse from Maoriland went
out at 5 to 2.
a|e $ #
For Moorefield on Saturday:—
Three- and Four-Year-Old Handicap:
Luita or Brockway.
Moorefield Mile: Quince; next, Miss Aus-
tralia.
Moorefield Handicap: Spearshot; next
Garrula.
Flying Welter: Luita or Somnolent.
>S* $ * $
E, F. Holmes, of Darwin, who has died
in Sydney after journeying from North Aus-
tralia (by aeroplane most of the way) to
get medical advice, owned some good horses.
The best of them was Sion, second in the
last Epsom and Doncaster, and one of the
favorites for the coming Epsom. A N.S.W.
native, Holmes went to the Territory years
ago to join an uncle, William Lawrie.
Some of the papers called him “a millionaire
squatter,” but he was hardly that, though
bis grazing interests were extensive. He
was also interested in the pearling trade at
Broome, and had many irons in the lire at
Darwin.
* * * *
S. A. Jockey Club reports a loss of £4700
on the year, this being almost exactly the
diminished profit on its meetings. It races
only seven days in the year, and used to be
able to count on a profit of £lOOO a day.
This lias dropped to £4OO, while oflice ex-
penses and salaries continue much as before.
Still, the club, which owns its own course
at Morphettville, claims to be worth £67.000.
There is no contest for committee, W. B.
Carr (chairman), Frank Downer and Lance
Lewis going back unopposed.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Two outsizes in pugs, Pat Redmond and
Roy Burns, took the floor at Sydney
Stadium on Saturday night and provided a
comic-opera bout which kept a big crowd
amused for nine acts. Pat grinned most of
the time, but Roy, who is an abo., took the
business very seriously. He hid behind a
smother of gloves, and Redmond belted away,
for the most part ineffectually. There was
little real stoush until the seventh round,
when the pair stood and swapped punches.
The abo. took a good leathering in the next
couple of rounds, but at the end of the ninth
lie could box no more, having eaten too
much ’possum. Tonnage : Burns, 17.2; Red-
moud, 16.6.
* * * *
The lure of a match for “the world’s
light-lieavyweight championship and a £2OO
side-wager” was manfully withstood by Mel-
bourne, addicts excepted, on Saturday night.
So the grapplers, George Zarynoff (i&t.
6£lb.) and Clarence Eklund (l2st. 5 3 1 b.).
found no great pleasure in contemplating tne
“house.” It was a rather tedious affair;
Clarrie, a kindly soul, did not get a tali
until the sixth round. Eklund was equally
forbearing over the concluding four rounds,
but was unable to make it anything but a
one-man show. Clarence is still “champion.
Footbrawl
In spite of an icy wind, which naturally
spoilt play, some 24,000 enthusiasts coughed
up £403 to watch Richmond and Essendon
battle it out on Saturday. Richmond s better
marking and concerted play were countered
by the Same Old’s greater speed and heftier
ruck work, and, allowing for the wind, it
was anybody’s game up to the finish; in
fact, it was nobody’s game then, tor tne
board said 74 points each. Hawthorn, after
its severe punishment by Collingwood, got
a move on against Carlton and might have
won but for missed chances near the close—
Carlton, 50 points; Hawthorn, 37. Colling-
wood, beginning to feel a bit stale, found
itself all at sea against tin 1 solid yet speedy
South Melbournites, and couldn t get
properly warmed up till the last quarter.
’Phi'ii the Magpies got going and when the
bi'll rang the tale was ’Wood, <0 points;
South, 43. St. Kilda went to Geelong, and
by (lie exercise of vigor and splendid marking
achieved their first victory at the Pivot since
’22—Saints, 71 points; Geelong, 00.
bourne had no difficulty iu walloping Fit/.-
roy, with 77 points to ’Roys 41; and .Nortn
Melbourne compassed the destruction ot
Footscray, witji 02 points to Scray s 43,
thereby achieving its first victory this season.
* * # *
The Perth v. N.S.W. Australian Rules
game at Sydney C. G. resulted in a win
for the visitors. The Westerners quicklx
got into action, and it seemed that the game
would be one-sided, but in the second-quarter
N S.W. was easily the better, piling up >
goals to Perth’s 2. It was capital football
all through, but Perth was a bit too good,
Morris marking and kicking consistently.
Perth, 12-45 (87 pts.) ; N.S.W., 12-b (<S
pts.).’
jj; ijj ♦ #
“Fitzcray” : The hold professional foot-
ball has on many phases of Melbourne life
is illustrated by a question raised in the
Victorian Legislature last week. There lifts
been an agitation to permit the 680 children
of the Victoria Park school to use Victoria
Park as a playground. The school is
opposite the park, and has no recreation-
ground. The park is a public grant for
public recreation purposes. Yet it has
been given over to the use of Col-
ling wood’s professional footballers, whose
Hub objects to the encroachment of
the school-kids on its monopoly because
they “injure the ground for the Saturday
matches.” A minor association piays football
on Wednesdays on the same ground, so the
plea falls a bit flat. The cream of the situa-
tion lies in the shocked protest made by
sin important Collingwood personage against
any infringement of the sacred club s nebu-
lous rights: “You don’t appreciate what
the winning of the football premiership
means to Collingwood.” On the face of tlnir,
Collingwood ranks the premiership higher
than the well-being of the offspring of its
own loins. . +
“Bowen Tark”: The good showing made
bv the newly-fledged Queensland Rugby
Union players in big football this season
has led to suggestions that the breakaway
Brisbane Rugby League should reconsider
its original intention of going over to the
local Union. It is to be hoped the Union
scouts the. idea. It is already evident that
its own material is good enough to build
up a first-class standard of play within the
next two or three seasons, and that there is
no need to put promising young recruits from
tile Union clubs and schools on one side
to make room for repentant professionals.
* * * *
,1. W. Breckenridge, lion, treasurer of the
N 8 W Rugby Union and Australian
breakaway forward, is putting his jer-
sov away in moth-balls at the end of this
season. The big copper-topped forward has
had a remarkable career in sport, and is*
an adept in many games from Soccer—he
only took to the handling code late m lire,
so to speak—to billiards, at which he wields
a dirty cue. Impending matrimony is the
immediate cause of his retirement No one
will bo more content than he with the tact
that the remarkable supply of young talent
coming forward will fill the gap left by his
retirement.
*.* * *
“Hotliam”: Gordon Sturtridge, the Mel-
bourne Uni. student who made such a bril-
liant debut against the All Blacks m the
second Test, has played with Queensland
teams before his university days, in addition
to representing Victoria and Australia. A
triple ’Varsity Blue, he is the Combined
Universities’ 440 hurdles champion, and
bolds the record for the event.
(Continued on pcnje Jfl:)
AT McNUTTY’S FORD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He pushed her slowly from the shed and
gave her hood a twist;
Her lamps were battered and her wheels and
chassis had a list;
He looked at her and murmured “Just
imagine wot I’ve missed.
“Per fifteen years I’ve stuck ter nags, jig-
joggin’ inter town,
An’ crawlin’ slowly up the ’lls, an’ brakin’
slowly down,
A-watchin’ Murphy’s flivver fly, an’ gettin’
dust from Brown.
“But all those things are past an’ goru since
I got this ’ere ’bus.
She ain’t too. ’andsome, as yer see, but still
she’ll do for us.
She gits yer quickly auyw’ere without the
toil an’ fuss.
“These new inventions is orl right.” He
wrenched her rusty crank.
She coughed and spluttered once or twice
and trembled in the flank,
And gurgles seemed to echo from her shiver-
ing petrol-tank.
“There ain’t no doubt,” he rambled on, “she’s
’andy at a pinch.”
He lumbered up, threw in the clutch, but
still she wouldn’t flinch.
He stamped and swore and shouted, but she
didn’t budge au inch.
“Aw, hang this bloomin’ box o’ smells. ’Er
plugs ’ave gorn, of course,
An' kindness isn’t any good, an’ wot’s the
use of force?”
lie kicked her viciously and growled “I’ll
go and get a ’orse.”
VICTORIA.
P.T.F.


ii
a
■
f/
m
A
v ?:s.
o«;
S 3
Q>
7%,
&
<79
6:
c<c
'V
*4
‘b*
£
4>
sSF
9
\
r
THEN
POUR
N
'T'HE handy aluminium drinking cup which
forms the cap of the McCallum’s
Perfection bottle is a great convenience.
No need for a corkscrew-you simply turn and
pull to have available the BOTTLED IN
S C O T L A N D —mild and mellow whisky al-
ways called for as “ McCallum’s.”
This world-famous SCOTS Whisky is ob-
tainable at all hotels and clubs —Ask for it
by name —“McCallum’s Perfection, please.”
G) c CaJluLm's
Scots (Ghisky
J'KfM/JL*
\ %-m.rt e
ebIMBUKQHIRXJNbeb <807)lOHboM
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
N. S. WALES:
Goldsbrough Mort & Co., Ltd.,
Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Goldsbrough Mort & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Gibbs Bright & Co,,
Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Lionel Samson & Son,
Fremantle.
TASMANIA:
McFarlane Bros. & Co.,
Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS
ẃ
WELLINGTON:
Ellis Manton, Ltd.,
Lombard Buildings, Bond Street,
Wellington.
CHRISTCHURCH:
Frank A. Cooke, Ltd.,
Colombo Street,
Christchurch.
DUNEDIN
Lanes, Ltd.
Dunedin.
HAIR
V<
G*
NEED
HERES
Why-
ẅ
w
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (.}/<>), 6d. being postage.
ŵ
OPOSSUM SHOOTING.
Open Season
in Queensland.
ẁ
22-CAL.
BOLT-ACTION RIFLE.
Famous Browning F.N. Single-shot Rifle. Large half-moon extractor, 21in. barrel, patent
safety catch. Fires ,22-cal. Short, Long and Long-rifle Cartridges. ACCURATE RANGE 200YDS.
PRICE, 25/- POST FREE.
NIGHT SHOOTING
m t
0
I
WINCHESTER
FOCUSSING TORCH
throws a beam of light 100 yards.
This wonderful torch,
light for 13 hours.
which is only 6J inches long and weighs only 120 z., will give a continuous
Permanent or intermittent switch, 11/6 each. Spare Batteries, 2-Cell
Winchester, 1/4 each. Post free.
PTY. LTD,
THE GUN PEOPLE,
318 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne.
THE PATRIOT
IPIRECT MEDIUM 19 WOMEN 1
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep : H. O. HTNCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
ẃ
K
OKA§f«
Craig sAitken
Wholesdlt’Dislribufott
Sydney N.S.W.


m
V.
ik
1
r
ADELAIDES FINEST UNLICENSED MOTEL
The most attractively located hotel
in Adelaide. The new railway sta-
tion is at your door; every transit
facility close by. Fireproof, 300
rooms, 100 bathrooms, spacious
lounge, faultless service, yale
lock on every door.
NORTH TERRACE.ADELAIDE.
and ,
ARIELLS
. Jlc cbctj
RAISINS
Cakes and puddings are appre-
ciably improved by the inclu-
sion of these choicest of all
raisins. Ask friend Grocer!
or a good
night's rest
w
it will ensure
a good day 's
work
In 4 sizes
ofall Cherr.irt;
and Stores
GERTI'How did Cohen lose his
MATCH W'TH M c TAVISH '{
BERt;"thev weirs au_ square
at THE I ST*"
<3ERT :"ves <; VES,?
Bert Then Cohen took am
STROKS AHD
CLAIMED >t. "
Footbrawl
The All Blacks closed tlieir tour with a
match against a N.S.W. team from which
men who played in the Tests were excluded,
except Towers and Cerutti. They won by
20 to 12, but the young fellows did very
well to score four unconverted tries. Porter
and Lilburne were the visitors’ best men;
Lilburne got 14 of the 20 points. Hind, from
Northern Suburbs, was the N.S.W. star ; he
scored one of the tries and was materially
responsible for Hemingway getting over.
The Maorilanders have gone back home
leaving a very line impression on those who
saw them on the field and met them off it.
That their hopes were dashed by the unex-
pected strength of the opposition cannot be
denied, but they themselves were the first
to give the winners due credit. They were
fortunate in their manager, Jim McLeod, a
leader of rare tact and personality. Looking
the side over —it was acclaimed in Maoriland
before departure as superior to the team
which cut 50-50 with the Springboks—it is
difficult to fault it, unless it was that it
was lacking a trifle in pace, both forward
and back, as compared with the Australians,
who have been trained for a long time past
to consider pace all-important. Otherwise,
the side compared well with any that we
have had from across the Tasman. Porter
and Lilburne are fit to rank with the best
the Dominion has turned out. The team
was very unlucky in losing the services of
Nepia and Dailey, and it also missed Oliver
in the third match against Australia. But
Maoriland must give up the seven scrum
if it is going to gain the possession neces-
sary to give the backs a fair chance. The
wing forward, loser of many points in
free kicks in the series just completed, will
also have to go.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Rugby Union games in Sydney
on Saturday sorted out the “big four” to con-
test the semi-finals, and in two instances,
at least, the margin was close. There was
a great struggle at Manly between Northern
Suburbs and the Villagers; a last-minute
try landed the visitors home by 14-13.
North, which has developed a great back
division, now heads the table. University,
on the home ground, scrambled home from
Eastern Suburbs by 14-12, the tricolor for-
wards proving too good for the students’
pack. Randwick had a field-day against
a depleted St. George side, 39-5, while
Western Suburbs won to the company of the
elect by beating a very weak Glebe-Balmain
team, 28-14. Y.M.C.A. and Police, both out
of the hunt, met at Hampden Oval, the
John Hops, with J. H. Morrison back again,
going down 17-19.
Fred Aarons writes: The replacement of
players in the All Black-Australia matches
has revived a controversy as to the equity
of the practice. Personally, I can see no
great objection if victory is to be awarded
to merit rather than to accidental circum-
stance. Here is an example. In my last
game in M.L., Southland v. Taranaki, in
1910, Southland had three good men put out
of action during the second half through
the greasiness of the ground. No replace-
ments were made, and Taranaki won by one
point, most of its score having been put
on in the second half. The argument that
it is unfair to bring a man who is fresh on
to the field- is, to a great extent, neutralised
by the two following factors: (1) The sub-
stitute is, in theory, at least, not as good as
the man he has replaced ; (2) the new man
is not a part of the original machine.
* * * *
“Tenakoe”: The casualties in the ranks
of the All Blacks were not all confined to
the players. None gave the Australian
public more concern than the illness, necessi-
tating an operation, of S. S. Dean, one of
the stalwarts of the game in the Shivery
Isles and manager of the 1024 All Blacks
in their conquering tour of Britain, I ranee
and Canada. He came to Australia oil this
occasion as the special guest of the N.S.W.
Rugby. Union.
❖ * * *
“Stand Off”: Rugby Union footballers
were included in the ranks of those who
mourned last week for the untimely death
of Neil (“Tiny”) Stewart, killed in a ’plane
crash in the Blue Mountains. He learned
his football at Sydney Grammar, and was
one of the founders and principal supporters
of the G.P.S. Old Boys’ Club, which waxed
and waned for a couple of seasons in the
Sydney grade competitions. Of great height,
he was a fine asset in the line-out to his
club, and was a pukka sportsman in all
respects.
sjc $ *
“Stand Off”: In spite of their defeat in
the Tests—the first, by the way in which
three Australian States have been repre-
sented in the home team —the All Blacks had
a good run on this side of the Tasman.
Of the ten matches played they lost. three,
drew one and won six, scoring 159 points to
68. Their itinerary was the most extended
any M.L. team has undertaken, in Australia,
ranging from Melbourne to Brisbane, 4 hey
should derive some satisfaction from the
fact that of the three matches played against
N S.W., which has more than once upset
the All Black applecart in the past, they
won two, hands down, and drew the other. •
* * * *
There were a couple of reversals of form
in the Sydney Rugby League grade competi-
tion on Saturday. South Sydney just man-
aged to tie, 7-7, with St. George, though it
still heads the competition table by five
points. North Sydney had little trouble to
win from University, 24-11. Newtown
headed Western Suburbs by 21-5, scoring
5 tries to 1; Craig was away ill, and with-
out him West was spineless. Eastern
Suburbs again showed signs of improvement
by beating Glebe, 32-15.
,1s * * *
“Mic Anic” : While a member of the Rugby
League touring party was granted leave
from the N.S.W. Education Department
for all the inter-State games prior t'O depar-
ture and extended leave for the English
tour, Jack Reeves of Maitland (N.S.W.)
in the same department was refused a few
hours off to captain the combined Newcastle
Union team against the All Blacks at New-
castle. Why?
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone” : The L.T.A. of Aus-
tralia, questioned by the N.S.W. associa-
tion about a challenge for the next Davis
Cup, undertook to deal with the matter m
October. Meanwhile a committee will
be appointed to consider the reduction
of Davis Cup team expenses. The last
intimation is overdue,. It would be interest-
ing to compare the travelling and allowance
expenses—especially the latter —of the
Rugby Union Waratahs and those of the
members of the last Davis Cup team abroad,
to say nothing of that famous crowd that
invaded America, some years ago—the esti-
mate to be taken pro rata, of course.
* if * *
“Amateur Pro.” : There was a scream of
mirth when it was announced that the Lawn
Tennis Association of Australia. objected to
,T. O. Anderson, now a professional, being
paid £5O for his services in connection with
a recent exhibition match in combination
with amateurs. The scream became hys-
terical when Norman Brookes gravely
remarked that fees for professionals should
not be too attractive, “as harm might be
done to the amateur game.” As a declared
professional, Anderson is entitled to draw
any sum his employers think he is worth.
The only harm likely to be done to the ama
teurs, if one may style them so, is that some
of them may shove up their “expenses” so
high that the game will not be worth the
candle for the tennis bodies issuing “invita-
tions” for exhibition matches.
>!: * * *
“Ivay”: Geoff Ollivier, for years amateur
champion of Maoriland, has been appointed
professional coach to the Canterbury Lawn
Tennis Association. Ollivier is the finest
tennis stylist the Dominion has produced.
But he was often a poor teamster,
and it was this inconsistency which caused
him to be left out of important inter-
provincial and Maoriland sides on occasions.
* * # *
“Delia”: Serving in a match in Canada
lately, one Mrs. McNeill killed a swallow
in flight across the court. Of course,
there are extenuating circumstances. The
swallow that isn’t able to dodge the service
of an every-day woman tennis-player is
better out of the picture.
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hotham”: The closing rounds of the
Victorian women’s golf championship pro-
vided some surprises, especially the defeat
of Mona MacLeod by Susie Tolhurst. In
the final Miss Tolhurst met a steady player
of the orthodox type in Mrs. S. H. Wood,
and ran away from her, winning by 8 and 7
over 36 holes. Her short game was remark-
ably accurate, and she made few mistakes on
the greens.
* * * *
“T.S.” : The women’s golf championship
of South Aus. goes again (by 7 and 5)
to Mrs. Britten Jones —her seventh win. The
runner-up was Mrs. McArthur, who has
got as near as that twice before, though
at long intervals; the first time was away
back in 1911.
t\i ❖ * *
“Brassey”: Leo Diegel, who fractures all
the canons of golf as the orthodox propound
them every time he takes a club in liis hand,
has once more shown that all that really
matters is to get results. At Montreal the
other day he won the Canadian champion-
ship with 274 for 72 holes, or a trifle under
fours—a marvellous performance. Among
the men he beat were Armour, MacDonald
Smith and Joe Kirkwood.
* .. # *
“Query” “Baffy” (B. 31/7/’29) remarks
that the crux of the Paris to Berlin stunt
will be getting across the Rhine. There is
nothing to be dreaded. All the player must
do in such a case is to have a boat. When
he arrives at the water’s edge, he must chip
his ball on board, row, steam, sail or float
to the other side, chip the ball ashore and
go ahead. The player infringes no rule.
The ball is in a hazard; it is played from
where it lies, and its position in the hazard
has not been moved prior to the stroke being
played. The hazard has been moved, but
the rules show nothing against moving a
hazard. Therefore it is safe to assume
that the player’s action in rowing the hazard
to the other side of the river is quite in
order. How’s that, umpire?
* * * *
“Divot Digger”: A welcome addition to
Sydney’s scanty supply of public and semi-
public golf courses will be the links now
being constructed by the Woollahra Council.
They are in Woollahra Park, quite close to
the Royal Sydney links, and the terrain offers
every opportunity for a sporting 18-hole
course with plenty of water hazards. J. 11.
Scott, the Sydney golf professional and
course architect, is the consulting expert.
# * # *
“The McHaggis”: The perennial question
of green fees has cropped up again among
Sydney golfers, who are the only players in
the Commonwealth to submit meekly to the
irritating extortion. Clubs should he able
to meet their expenses from the entrance
and subscription fees, most of which are high
enough in all conscience. Something like
a revolution is brewing among the members
of many of the Sydney clubs, who want to
know why such first-class institutions as
the Bonnie Doon and the Royal Sydney
can get along without holding playing mem-
bers up for a bob for every round. They
are the only ones that don’t.
* $ # *
“Old Q.”: Unattached Brisbane golfers
are still hoping against hope for the estab-
lishment by the Council of municipal links.
An ideal site lies close to the centre <)f the
city in the wide hilly expanses of Victoria
Park, and initial expenses would be com-
paratively small, leaving those using the
course to furnish the money for its com-
pletion, as would undoubtedly be the case. It
is six years since the agitation for the links
began, and all sorts of dodges have been
tried to soften the hearts of the Brisbane
Bumbles, even to the length of seducing
some of them to take up the game. All has
proved in vain, and the election of a golf
element to the next Council seems the only
way out.
* * *
“Smasliie” : The Nankivells of Melbourne
are a great golfing family. Billy can claim
a Royal Melbourne amateur championship,
whilst Jim is a scratch man. Betty Nan-
kivell returned recently from England, where
she distinguished herself, and Peggy is one
of Vic.’s best girl players.
$ * $ *
“Hoylake”: The old adage “Horses for
Courses” applies with equal certainty to
golfers. American Leo Diegel’s pet weak-
ness is the course at Montreal, where he
has just won his fourth Canadian champion-
ship. His score of 274 for the 72 holes is
not only a record for the event, but nearly
for the world. The smallest total ever put-
up in a championship game is 273 by another
American, Horton Smith, in this years
French Open.
*
“Baffy”: Those golfers compelled to use
the Sydney municipal links at Moore Park
have been gratefully surprised of late to
notice a distinct improvement in course and
greens. The course has been lenghtened by
gome 800 yards, new fairways contributing
to this, and par has consequently jumped
from 69 to 73. Superintendent Blake, who
is the new man in charge, has done good
work, and if he can only organise a flying
squad armed with shotguns for the extermi-
nation of ball-stealing youths, he will earn
the grateful thanks of all Moore Park golfers.
* Hi Hi Hi
“Iconoclast”: Someone who ought to know
better has started a demand in an Ameri-
can golfing journal for the institution of a
world’s golf championship. The idea is
that each country should choose its own
champion by elimination, and then stack
him up in a grand final, which will, pre-
sumably, be an open event. It seems a
superflous idea. The British Open is
acknowledged already as the world’s cham-
pionship for golfers, just as the All England
singles at Wimbledon have remained the
blue ribbon of tennis in spite of the Davis
Cup. Besides, the world is sufficiently over-
run as it is with golfers, without extending
their opportunities.
(Continued on next page.)


ŵ
ẁ
SCIENCE AND LIFE!
Scientific medical research has given to men and women ten years
longer life!
The dispensing and delivering of life-saving medicines are daily
occurrences in my business.
Whether you live in Sydney or innermost Australia, I can send you
all your medical requirements .
Just pin this advertisement to your letter or prescription, and your
medicines will reach you by return mail. ( V.P. or otherwise .)
Call in personally when next you are in town
W. JAMES ROGERS, Chemist,
355 George Street (opposite G.P.0.), Sydney.
t**PUMP TYPE
e
SUPER CHARCER
£. EFFICIENCY
* WITH ECONOMY
0 SIMPLICITY
Wholesale Agents and Stockists:
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Car and Cycle
“Whizz”: The Melbourne-to-Sydney speed
craze broke out again, the other day, with
slightly different trimmings, when Harry
Greville drove an 8-cylinder Marraon
sedan with two lady passengers between
the two cities in 14 hours 20 minutes. This
is claimed to be a record for an enclosed
touring model, though, as a matter of fact,
it was equalled live years ago by I. and T.
C. McDowell in a (5-cylinder car of the
same type. What benefit accrues to the
motor trade or sport from the unnecessary
and dangerous performance no one seems to
know.
* * * *
“Tourer”: What an adjunct the motor-
car is to modern enjoyment is seen in the
leisurely world tour undertaken some months
ago by Mr. and Mrs. Allsop, of Auckland
(M.L.). When the’ pair, starting from Syd-
ney and going west to Perth, recently drove
into New York, they had covered .'lO,OOO miles
through ten countries, including eight sea
crossings. The car was a Packard sedan,
fitted with a bed arrangement, and the tour-
ists fed and found themselves. The venture
proved most economical, and though some
very rough country was traversed, notably
in South and Central Africa, a broken spring
was the only casualty. They expect to see
Auckland again by Christmas.
* * * *
“Ongerup": The contention of “Disc
Clutch” (B. 17/7/’29) that there is little
to choose between the motor-car and the
’plane in point of speed is not borne out by
a Westralian performance. Recently a
Perth business man flew a circuit from
Perth, visiting various country centres, in
5 hours 30min. By train the same journey
would have taken eight days and by car
19 hours. The itinerary was from Perth to
the Ivununopin district,' then to Moora, and
thence back to Perth.
* * * *
“Si Ann”; Australia’s cultural influence
continues to spread. Singapore is to have a
speedway for dirt-track racing in Upper
Serangoon. The promoter is F. Heron Pit-
cher, who is shrewd enough to see that, judg-
ing by experience, a new sport will not
have to depend on the scanty white man for
support—there are 400,000-odd assorted
browns and yellows who will take to it like
a. duck to water. A dozen Australian riders
are to be imported for the gala opening and
the track will be illuminated with 210,000
c.p. of electric light. Local riders are already
being coached. Of course, gambling is to be
strictly barred, but anybody who can separate
a Chinaman from his favorite vice will be a
magician.
* ♦ ♦ $
. “Trek”: Melbourne motor-cyclists were
impressed recently by the arrival of two
Hungarians who are touring the world with
a sidecar outfit and have already covered
30,000 miles. There were two additional
members of the party at the start, a lady
and an. Alsatian dog, but the one was jetti-
soned in Palestine with malaria, and the
other in India through inability to continue
living. The party was attacked on its jour-
ney by Bedouins and wolves, but suffered ao
harm, though tyre punctures gave trouble.
It is as well the itinerary does not include
1 apua. As everyone knows it is impossible
to keep tyres inflated in that country because
of mosquitoes, while the local cockroaches
are liable to ride off with the entire outfit
if that is left unguarded for a moment
* * * *
‘‘Toe-dip” ; “Sprocket’s account (B.
, v th e non-pacing ordinance
adopted by the N. S. Wales authorities in a
recent 40-mile road race will interest old-
timers. Thirty years ago and more that
matter was threshed out by many a club and
union, and always we came out by that same
door wherein we went. Starting competitors
xt two-minute intervals, as in the recent
N.S.W. experiment, won’t preclude pacing
unless the whole course is policed, and even
then there may be bunching, in which case a
certain amount of pace-taking is difficult to
avoid by even the purest-hearted of competi-
tors. What’s going to happen on those roads
where, in places, there is only one negotiable
track? Even if you send the back-markers
away first, there is likely to be trouble with
the ruck. If pacing really lias been abolished,
more details would be welcome.
Miscellaneous
“Splash”: It is possible that Albert
Zorilla, the South American middle-distance
amateur swimmer, may be invited to Aus-
tralia this coming season. Zorilla is
evidently one of these amateurs of means
w'ho spend so much of their time in com-
petitive sports that they have none to spare
for work unless they sit up at night to do it.
He has been swimming all over the Americas
ever since the Olympiad, and is still hard at
it. The announcement that Arne Borg may
also be invited is more surprising, since
Australia saw a lot of him last season.
There is even less doubt about his amateur
status than there is about Zorilla’s.
* # * *
“Swan”: The Westralians are doing them-
selves proud in sport during the centenary
year, even if they failed to retain the cher-
ished King’s Cup. After defeating Victoria
at football they took on the other States at
hockey, and won the final from South
Australia by 6 goals to 2 last week. As
the Westralian women players had done
the same by their sisters of the Eastern
States, the Sandgropers must be credited
with a good double. N.S.W., knocked out
by Victoria, was handicapped by the absence
of many of its cracks in Maoriland, where
the Australian side won the first Test against
M.L. at Wellington.
* * * *
“Yokel”: When George Forbes, M.L.
Minister of Lands, was younger he
excelled in many branches of sport and on
one occasion was matched to run 440 yards
against an Otago crack. George’s nose, like
liis speed then and his urbanity now, was
not his least conspicuous feature, and when
a belated backer of the southern man arrived
after the match he was told Forbes had
“won by a nose.” “Cripes!” he said, dis-
gustedly. “Then he romped home.”
* * * *
“The Gaffer”: That marvellous distance
runner Paavo Nurmi is probably out of the
game for good. He seriously injured one of
his legs last month while running in New
York, and is returning to Finland for special
treatment which, it is hoped, will make him
fit again. Precedent is all against him. Not
once in a thousand times does a “crocked”
runner ever get back to liis top again on
resuming the spiked shoes. In any case
Nurmi seems to have slipped a bit, for in
an attempt on his own 4-mile record of
19min. 15 3-ssec. at New York, he could do
no better than 19min 27 3-ssec.
* * * *
“Third Base” : The American baseball team
whose coming was suddenly sprung on Aus-
tralian followers of the. game the other day
is a combination from an Oregon (U.S.A.)
amateur athletic association, and will be
known as the Multnomalis. The team
arrives in Sydney this week, and after a
trial gallop will take part in the Australian
carnival, and later will visit Newcastle. In
addition, three Tests against Australian sides
will be played before the team heads home-
ward oil September 7.
* * >!< *
England won the fourth Test against
South Africa at Old Trafford by an innings
and 32 ruus. As the home side won the
third game and the first two were drawn,
the rubber is England’s, and the fifth match
will resolve itself into a three-days affair.
England’s first knock was closed with 7 down
for 427, Woolley (154) and Wyatt (113)
compiling more than half the total in a
record stand for the third wicket. Rain
affected the wicket for South Africa, which
succumbed to Freeman (7 for 71) in the
first essay for 130, D. Morkel batting vali-
antly for 63. The second knock, 265, was
a bit better, Taylor collecting 70 and Cam-,
eron 83. Freeman ended a good match with
five more wickets.
* * * *
S. E. Gregory, a scion of a famous clan
in Australian cricket annals, died in Sydney
last week, at the age of 59. One of the
greatest hatsmen Australia has produced,
the little man was ranked with Vernon
Royle as the finest cover-point the world has
SYD GREGORY, one of the most brilliant
cricketers Australia has produced From
a photo, taken in 1912.
seen. Of diminutive stature, he was, at his
best, the conqueror of any bowling sent up
against him. Those who saw him handling
Richardson, Lockwood, Briggs and Peel on
the famous occasion of liis 201 on Sydney
Cricket Ground in December, 1894, will
never forget the little man’s mastery.
* * * #
“Tenth Slip”: In spite of the perfidy of
the Board of Control in taking a Test match
away from Sydney and giving it to Brisbane,
the N.S.W. Cricket Association cleared a
net surplus for the year of £11,329. As
the profit when Gilligan’s team was here,
and two Tests were played in Sydney, was
only £12,813, there doesn't seem to be much
to squeal about. Sheffield Shield profits, as
usual when a touring team is in Australia,
fell off considerably, but were still close on
£lOOO. Outside the report and balance-sheet
the annual meeting did little but recommend
that in future the Australian selectors be
three in number instead of four. If it could
G.W. SLADE, ex-president of the M.L.
Rugby Union, and now a leading
member of the executive. He is Aus-
tralian born.
only be arranged for them all to be
N. S. Welshmen, everything in the Ma
State garden would be lovely.
* * *
“Torrens”: The South Australian Cricket
Association’s search for an all-time coach
to replace Patsy Hendren has resulted in
the appointment of the A.I.F. and Australian
representative “Nip” Pellew. There were
2-8 applicants, 24,, from England. The great
outfield and batsman went on the land
after his return with Armstrong’s vic-
torious side, but played cricket again last sea"
son. Very popular in his native State, it
remains to be seen whether he will prove as
great a success as a coach as he was a
player. It is rarely that an Australian
player succeeds in this direction, the reason
being, probably, that he has paid more atten-
tion to playing cricket than to teaching it.
With the average English professional, the
reverse is the case. Most of the English
pros, make their living from coaching, and
they are adepts at the game.
* * * *
“Hotham”: Melbourne Bowling Club,
alleged to be the oldest in Australia, held
its 65th annual meeting recently, when
Charles Andrews, otherwise known to all
Australian bowlers as “The Master,” was
elected patron, after filling the president’s
chair for many years. The Melbourne club’s
claim to seniority is likely to be challenged
in N.S.W. Apart from the legendary bowling
green at the Woolpack Inn in Parramatta,
whereon the nobility and gentry of the Mac-
quarie days were said to disport themselves,
there was John Young’s famous club at the
Glebe, which is alleged to antedate the Mel-
bourne organisation.
* $ * *
“Blade”: The fifty-first annual meeting of
the N.S.W. Rowing Association elected Geof-
frey Fairfax as president in the place of the
lamented Q. L. Deloitte. He will be only
the third president the association has had
in its half-century of existence. Though
finances are satisfactory and the number of
rowing men has increased, the fact that there
is only one club in existence outside Sydney
—the baby organisation at Penrith —remains
a reproach to N.S.W. rowing. Every other
State in Australia boasts numerous' extra-
metropolitan clubs, and the reason for the
extraordinary centralisation of the game in
the bloated metropolis of Sydney calls for
investigation.
* * * *
” “Shrewsbury”: For the third time in suc-
cession T. D. A. Collett has won the Wing-
field Sculls. He also won in 1926, but
was disqualified on a foul. His time
for the four miles two furlongs course from
Putney to Mortlake on this occasion, 21min.
47sec., is a record for the event. Yet Aus-
tralian Bobby Pearce, after Collett had
beaten the Canadian, Peter Wright, made
the Englishman look like a hack in the Olym-
pic sculling race. It is a thousand pities
that the man who is certainly the greatest
amateur sculler Australia has turned out has
never been able to row on the Thames.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Spare iCobden”: Another instance of the
fallacy of Protection is the opening at Sun-
shine (Yic.) of a factory capable of pro-
ducing 250,000 yards of leather cloth and
500,000 yards of rubber cloth annually.
These materials are used in the upholstery
and hood coverings of cars, and have hitherto
been imported from Britain and America.
The enterprise has been launched under the
joint wing of Imperial Chemical Industries
and the American Dupont interests.
* * * *
“Aftermath” : Queensland State stations go
up for auction on September 17, on the
basis of a new 30 years’ lease to the buyer.
Rent for the first 10 years is to be at the
current rate, and Crown resumption rights
will not 1 be exercised for at least 10 years.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: The old idea of a real ocean
port at Victor Harbor (S.A.) is revived by
engineering expert Sydney Upton. The
actual mouth of the Murray seems hopeless
through shallow water and shifting sand-
banks. Victor is just outside. Upton adopts
the harbor plan of the U.S.A. expert Major
Johnston, but cuts out liis idea of a canal
from Goolwa, just inside, linking up instead
by cross-country railway connections to bring
in the produce of the Mallee country and
the river instead of hauling it over the
Mount Lofty ranges to Port Adelaide. As
to which it may be surmised that Vested
Interests will put up a devil of a fight first.
* *!t * *
“V.H.R.”: If the Speck’s Government
doesn’t soon take a tumble and afford the
sooty petrel or mutton-bird reasonable pro-
tection, this unique species MU be a thing of
the past. Every year they are getting fewer,
and it needs only a few more seasons of
ruthless slaughter to see the end of a fine
industry, which is the very lifeblood of some
of the Strait islands. The hen lays only one
egg in a shallow burrow in the ground, and
the young fall an easy prey to the birders,
who collect the fledglings in thousands during
the month or two that the breeding season
lasts.
* * * *
“C.Q.” : The proprietor of the Fetter hosi-
ery mills in Carlton, Melbourne, landed five
years ago with 16s. in his pocket. He had been
a prosperous manufacturer in Russia, but the
Soviet found him guilty of the crime and
sentenced him to 10 years for it, though it
relented when his employees testified to his
virtues as a boss. Starting in Australia as
a mechanic, Fetter moved into the fur trade,
and so collected enough money to rent a
stocking-making machine. His business ex-
panded into a factory, and the factory ex-
panded into two. To-day he employs 200
people, and turns out 2000 dozen pairs of
leg furniture per week.
* * * *
“John B.” : The 120 skilled men dismissed
from the small-arms factory at Lithgow
(N.S.W.) could have been profitably em-
ployed. What plant is now in operation is
being used for the manufacture of machine-
guns ; the remainder of the expensive
machinery could be utilised for production
of some of the thousand and one articles we
now import, and this without competing with
Australian manufacturers. Roller skates,
for instance. Owing to' the boom, you have
to pay 455. a pair for the imported article;
the S.A.F. could turn them out much cheaper
than that. And motor-car parts could be
fabricated on a large scale. Even now the
establishment is making components of gears
for Sonnerdales, of Petersham, who supply
General Motors.
* *' * *
“Jamwood” : Country roads must be made
suitable for motor traffic, and that, the experts
tell you, means concrete. But all-concrete
roads, built under Australian conditions, cost
from £lO,OOO a mile up; besides, they are
bad for the horses. David Kelly, a Parkes
(N.S.W.) farmer, suggested a solution of
the problem, and, failing to interest profes-
sional roadbuilders, gave it “a fly” at his
own expense and labor, helped by a few
friends. He thus describes the experiment
and its results :
At a cost of .£42 lls., the work being done by
amateurs with poor equipment, we laid down two
concrete strips, six chains long, in the Molong-road,
close to Parkes. The strips were laid parallel at
motor-car gauge, sft. 4in-. from centre to centre;
they were each Ift. wide and 6in. deep. Two
trenches were dug out of the road to those dimensions,
and the rough excavation filled in to road level with
concrete. These tracks stood the heavy traffic of
two harvest seasons and two winters. In no place
was there the least sign of a break. Without doubt,
18in. tracks let in about an inch dr more below
road level would give highly satisfactory results.
Very interesting, it seems to me, and per-
haps very important. Yet Mr. Kelly records
that engineers still laugh when he argues
that “a car is not like a horse-team, requir-
ing a whole road to run on,” and that thor-
oughly satisfactory motor-tracks could be
laid down for £5OO a mile.


ẃ
I
1
I
m
IN truck operation, efficiency, dependability
and economy are the essentials that make for
the lowest cost per mile, per ton, per year.
In every single detail of construction, from the
largest mechanical unit right down to the
smallest rivet, Republic models express
efficiency in truck engineering.
Republic power is as simple and effortless as it
is ample; the frame is bridge-strong; oil-bathed
axles deliver every ounce of engine power to the
rear wheels; the brakes are the most competent
and reliable used in trucking to-day; steering is
sure and simple; springs and shackles are
heavier and more dependable; and many other
distinctive and exclusive features contribute to
the most economical and dependable applica-
tion of Republic power.
Analyse the many outstanding mechanical
features of this Truck, and you will readily
understand the secret of present-date Republic
popularity among experienced truck operators,
and why
There are more
ẅ
trucks in use than those of any other individual
Truck Manufacturer
INTERSTATE AGENTS:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177-185 William Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency,
(Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Weymouth Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets,
Wellington.
Factory Representatives: W. A. CROWLE, LT D., Crowle House, York Street, Sydney.


Under
Royal
.Marram
(-V
'\ht.
v- >+ ''
fo H.M.
Kin*
George V
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE
w
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company Umitad
SYDNEY
cmAMpacks
'iarieslleidsiecs
Heims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrerio—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
ust a Moment from Everywhere
The Wentworth —Australia’s most efficiently-managed hotel
—is handy to theatres, shops and banks —yet delight-
fully situated away from the noise and roar of the city.
Personally conducted by Mrs. H. Maclurcan, Governing
Director, it is the centre of all smart gatherings, and the
Mecca of visitors who appreciate comfort, convenience
and excellence in cuisine.
Wire or write ■ your reservations.
r Jhe
Church Hill
Sydney
l>l
II
AUSTRALIA'S
HOTEL DE-LUXE
7ne centre of Queen s/an c/s
ct/stingu/s/xpc/ Soc/o/ Life.
€emom
ŵ
WoM
BRISBANE
Magnificent Bail-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal oi
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cablet: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780—10 Line*.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
SLIPPER
HEEL
SILK HOSIERY
The Royal Art Society's Exhibition
entered tin l Education Department’s Gal-
leries with the first of the daffodils and. the
emdiest whiff of brown boronia. Two rooms
are full of smiling nature, vivid portraits and
still-lifes that are not still at all but clamor-
ous with color. The visitors on Saturday
came in cohorts because the society this
year celebrated its golden jubilee. No fewer
than. SOO viewed the exhibition at the pri-
vate Screening—among them George Colli ng-
ridge, the lI.A.S.’s oldest member and one
of its founders, and Lilias Carling, its
youngest exhibitor. There’s a nice family
feeling about any R.A.S. opening. Artists
much more domestic animals than novels of
Chelsea and Paris would have us believe,
bring wives and babes to the gathering—-the
Jackson couple last week brought a iive-
months-old Miss Jackson, who turned a
sapphire eye emptied of criticism from ceil-
ing to skirting-board. Kyd Long was there,
and Jimmie Watkins, and John Banks and
his wife, skulking like culprits past John’s
“Golden Days”—sheer magic of sky and
trees that blocked the traffic all through the
afternoon. Embroidered taffetas, so fresh
and vivid that the rosebuds on the black
ground of one dress worn by the older woman
seemed newly tossed thereon by an errant
wind, caused women a little sharp intake of
the breath when they stood before Maori-
hinder Ida Carey’s portraits.
Kyd. Ure Smith represented the Society of
Artists. Lawson Balfour, who just failed
to finish his portrait of Mrs. Warwick Fair-
fax for the show, was represented mostly by
loan portraits—and that tells you how busy
his brush is. The two Souter girls were
there, without their famous father, he being
at home sick of the ’flu —darned sick of it
he’d told them. Mrs. Hugh Ward came with
Mrs. Eva Wunderlich. Health-man Dr.
Purdy, evidently putting his faith in the
germ-killing power of turps, made one of
the crowd; Judge Backhouse was an early
visitor; the R. 11. Millard couple were
others who found stimulation in every min-
ute of the show, from the very nice vice-regal
crimson hangings to the spirited water
pageants of Charles Bryant.
This Letter has been, in company, it liopos,
with the rest of Sydney, to view the show of
Australian-made goods displayed behind
plate glass on two balcony floors above Pitt-
sfreet. Among other discoveries were Crown
glassware and Nally china. The latter alleges
that it is almost unbreakable; it ought to
bo followed by the bullet-proof brassiere,
for use in the higher-toned suburbs.
The Nally goods are in delicate rose
and mauve and green and every other
shade the heart of woman can desire. The
Crown crystal was under the direction of a
super-salesman aged about eighteen—the
very rare bird who knew all about the
product his firm is turning out. Government
House lias now in use a water-jug cut by
this firm and adorned with a flower design
which flashes all the colors of nature through
its prisms. Hats that suggest every sort of
head arc shown in company with the rabbit
that bred tlie fur that made the felt that
the hat is built of. Exquisite Australian
woods, water-smooth, their veining like ferns
seen through a still mountain pool, turned
into highboys and lowboys, laugh us. to
shame for our craze for Spanish mahogany
and Italian walnut. Electric pianos and
radios unleashed world masterpieces, while
the many inventions gazed with hundred-
per-cent. efficiency eyes at the beholder as
though begging her to order them home.
Thank goodness we are not altogether to
blame for the fact that Uncle Woolbales
won’t be able to buy us that new tiara this
season. Male people have been tolling us that
if only we wore woollies next our skin
and pulled our skirts down a foot, millions
more pounds of fleece would bo consumed
and the tiara would be a sure thing. But
between sedate performances at the National
Bank’s annual staff dance the other night, a
nice young manager, just back from workl-
wandoring, confided that a lot of it is due
to central heating. In other words, Chris-
topher O. Columbus, of Detroit, having
discovered Europe and held out a handful
of gold, Europe has proceeded to introduce
Christopher O.’s system of house-heating
and for the purposes of this paragraph house
includes hotel, theatre, store, train, motor-
car, chicken-coop and shoe-shine parlor. One
of the greatest industries of England, France,
Holland and every other tourist country
of Europe during the past two years has
been the installation of this heating.
But K Christopher O. really suggested the
change to us. our nice banker knows it was
we who had told Dad it would have to be
done; for really things couldn’t have been
comfortable for any girl with nothing but
10oz. of silk or near silk between herself and
an unwarmed world —especially with the
temperature below zero, as it was several
times in Europe last winter. This means
that for the future, so long as the heat is
on, anything but the lightest raiment will
be burdensome indoors; and this doesn’t
sound promising for that tiara.
And then you mustn't forget the blankets.
Blankets were a wonderful consumer of
wool; but with central heating—well, our
banker, passing through Montreal in winter,
shivered at the prospect of sleeping under
two very thin bed-coverings of the 1912
vintage. But he soon discovered that if he
hadn’t been quite mad and insisted upon
sleeping with an open window, those two
pieces of cheese cloth would have been quite
sufficient. And that doesn’t seem to bring
the tiara any nearer either.
“Heavy, heavy hung over my head,” and
over everybody vise's, too, last week, with
its wet days roofed with rain-bloated clouds.
But the feet and legs of Sydney’s women-
folk grew every day and in every way
brighter and better. The office poet (male)
produced the following to the glory of a
girl he’d seen daily in King-street
She is young and very sweet
From the rubbers on her feet
To the umbereller held above her hair;
And her beauty makes me swoon
When each wet, dank day at noon
I watch her pea-green legs up Pitt-street fare.
No, the pea-green legs aren’t a figure of
speech nor yet a coat of paint. In company
with hundreds of others, the poet’s queen
of the rosebud garden lias bought a pair of
colored-rubber boots that are worn with or
without ordinary shoes—they come knee-
high, and can he had in any color to go
with your rain-coat and brolly. You can
have red legs, yellow legs, blue legs or pink
legs, and your choice will cost you not quite
a pound.
Hollywood sends us this new photograph
of one of Sydney's active women. Satan
would have a quite out-of-date stock of
mischief on his shelves if all hands worked
as unceasingly
as Mrs. IV.
J. White’ s.
Eleven years
ago she and
M r s. Lewis
Packer, who
had been ard-
ent Red Cross
workers for
the duration
of the war,
started the
tea-rooms for
the refresh-
men t of visi-
tors and others
at Prince
Alfred’s. It
was their
res p o nse to
the meeting
called by Mrs.
Char 1 e s
Walker, when
she formed the first hospital auxiliary in
Sydney. For 11 years Mrs. White has
stuck to her labor of love, at first every
day, of late on three days of every week. In
addition to her labors at Prince Alfred’s, she
is a worker for the Barnardo Homes and an
ardent mover in the attempt to supply Pad-
dington with a public hospital.
If you were in Sydney and hadn’t a tree
from which to pluck your own wattle on
August 1, lovers of Australia’s golden glory
from Central Station to the Quay saw that
you had a spray for your lapel. Tram-men
sported it; the milkman wore his, glistening
with rain, stuck through his hatband; one
flapper hopping into a tram was seen to
have thrust hers through her jazz garter.
The wet pavements thought shame of them-
selves to be surprised in the midst of their
spring cleaning by the dainty visitor. But
mother Nature was inexorable. She might
be a bungler, but the work had to be done
her way, wattle or no wattle. It was spring
according to the calendar, and she’d made
up her mind to give Sydney a good washout.
So if Acacia bailey ana, Acacia pycnantha,
Acacia dealbata and Acacia decurrens were
drenched they still had to admit, like the
heroine of the melodrama, that mother knows
best.
But, as so often happens, the day fell a
month too soon. Of course there was wattle
in bloom: there is hardly a month when some
wattle or other is not in bloom. But in the
mountains and around Beecroft and Parra-
matta, where the golden glory can he seen
at its most glorious, not one tree in a dpzen
yet wears its crown. Happily, so far as
the mountains are concerned. Last year a
late snowstorm spoiled it: this year some-
thing extra-special in falls came just too
early to do much harm.
This Page climbs into its pink runabout
with a heavy heart. Comedian Jack Cannot,
The Fun Doctor whose prescription m the
end failed himself, died last week from a
self-administered dose ot strychnine. M hat
a different setting that lonely sciuh near
Long Bay. where he made his exit, to on
of the. iii-st in which this Better saw him
east' It was at the Tivoli and Jack was
doing a turn with Vera Pearce. He sat at
the grand piano in a room softly hung and
radiant with golden light. He played Veras
accompaniments as she sang two 01 thi .
charming songs, and then he in turn »ang
very well indeed-for Jack had a good and
well-trained voice—some sparkling uumneis
to his own playing. In the years since then
Sydney has had his inimitable pantomime
•icts to thank for some of its most laughtei-
tilled evenings. Is Comedy, after all, on v
tlie barrage the super-sensitive raise between
themselves and reality '■
The I ni. Women's Settlement House at
Redfern went gay one afternoon last week
and Lady de Chair blew in on a gust ot
windy rain to see the members at their play*
This'settlement was formed 39 years ago at
the instigation of Lady Jersey. wife ot the
then Governor, who held it right that, the
rich in education should pass some ot their
wealth on to the less fortunate. hormer
Women's College head Louisa noiloii al<
fostered the work, and Mrs. 11. L. ltarn,
still an enthusiast and present in last week s
audience, was one of the first workers.
Mungo MacCaHum's lady, who cherishes the
settlement even as a mother, received the
vice-regal visitor, to the accompaniment ot
the shrill pipes of youngsters at play in the
back of the hall. There were about seventy
of the total membership of 200, but if the
other 130 had been there it's doubtful if even
Lady de Chair’s clear tones could have
pierced the high-voiced happiness. The
touching part of these settlement at-homes
to one onlooker at least is the mothers share
in the programme. There are 00 members
in the Mothers’ Club, and 40 appeared
in old-time dances and songs and glees led
by their friend Mrs. It. B. Trindall.
Twenty-seven of the dauntless All Blacks
turned up at the sixth yearly ball of the
Rugby Union in David Jones’s with all the
nostalgia emptied from heart and brain. The
wind and the rain and the dour days had
made them forget they weren’t on their
native heath. If any lurking feeling of being
strangers in a strange land still remained
as they handed mufflers and topcoats to the
attendant, by the time they reached the
dance floor it had completely vanished. When
they appeared in their black blazers brave
with the silver fern their welcome was only
outdone in sound by the Maori haka they
gave as grace for their supper. Manager
J. McLeod looked proud of his charges, and
with the party came Mrs. McLeod and
another Maorilander, Mrs. O. Cook. Judge
Coyle’s lady was president of the dance, for
her husband was a famous leather-chaser
before the Bench became his goal. Support-
ing mother at the official table were the
three pretty Coyle girls, Meg, Felicity and
Moya. Also about the board were president
of N.S.W. Rugby Union 11. D. Wood, cap-
tain of All Blacks C. J. Porter and vice-
captain W. C. Dailey. Mrs. N. E. Eglese
was secretary and Meg Coyle and Alexa
Yates kept the treasury. Another football
table was surrounded by the Carr family:
with Mrs, Carr sat T. P., who played for
Australia in 1886, and beside him sat two
sons, one who played with the 1913 Austra-
lian team and “Slip,” who represented Aus-
tralia in 1921.
The belle of the Hockey Ball would, of
course, have been Tory Wicks, captain of the
team which is to visit S. Africa and England
next year; but she stayed at home with
’flu. So did sister Nancy, just returned
from the Perth contests. So did Mrs. E. J.
Davy, secretary, who was too ill to he
present; and so did Esme Lloyd, the treas-
urer. Yet, in spite of all these casualties,
the flutter was a gay spot in the Went-
worth’s week.
When a wave of smoke rolled through the
Palm Court and into the ballroom of the
Ambassadors the other evening, the dancers
in the ballroom decided to call it a night.
Men rushed their partners up the stairs, in
many cases without wraps, the orchestra
accompanying their exit with saxophone
and drum. Then the bandsmen, seeing all
but they had fled, did a skip through the
deserted banquet hall and on to the sidewalk
unharmed and unsinged even as everybody
else. Some ladies fainted in the good old-
fashioned way, but by the time they reached
the footpath declared they had only been
overcome by the smoke. Waiters helped
the dancers to make a quick escape, one
knocking down a doorway at the rear.
Twenty minutes after the last man reached
the top, tlie big dome fell in and crashed
to tlie floor. Long before that happened the
cloak-room attendant had gathered the still
unclaimed wraps into bundles ; the Clarence-
street Police Station took charge of them,
and not one piece of property discarded in the
rush for safety failed to reach its owner!
On Wednesday afternoon the last, an um-
brella, was delivered to its claimant. By
the following Saturday the debris was suffi-
ciently cleared for two wedding parties to be
held in the Empire Room, and by next
Saturday, the 10th, the management expects
to be in full swing again. The fire started
in McNaught's shoe-store, probably through
an electric short-circuit; but the brigades
got it quickly under control.
It was the Golden Wattle dance in aid
of the Moore Park Kindergarten which the
fire so rudely ended. Mrs. Sam Walder was
its president and wore with her black and
white frock flame-colored shoes. The wattle
in great bowls and festooned on the wall
probably thought its old enemy the bush-
lire had chased it even to this retreat.
This fire, incidentally, may be father to a
new Building Act, for Chief Commissioner
Garlick, who, with bis wife, was among the
dancers, said afterwards that it emphasised
the need for regulations which would re-
quire all such places to have more than one
public exit, the way to them plainly marked,
as at theatres. These are also required to
maintain auxiliary means of lighting their
exits.
The girl with the big eyes, pictured here
by May Moore, is Gwen Cooinbe. youngest
of the good-looking daughters of picture-
knight Tom Cooinbe and his lady. Gwen,
who is a poc-
ket edition, has
some of her
father’s gifts
of showman-
ship, and she
displayed them
in the recent
puppet show
which she and
her friends ran
for the benefit
of the Journal-
i st s’ Benevo-
lent Fund. The
dancing wa s
one of the
high lights in
the gay revue,
and Gwen was
notable among
the fleet of foot
and lithe of
movement. Off-
stage she is
one of the best ballroom dancers in Sydney,
and lias been offered a job as teacher in more
than one studio. Motoring is one of her
favorite time-killers. A ear’s bonnet can hide
no secrets from her.
The unexpected death of Mrs. James
Hughes, wife of Dr. James Hughes, of Rose
Bay, has plunged Mrs. Dan Kelly, of Kirri-
billi, again into mourning. Mrs. Hughes
was one of the late Frank Coffee’s three
daughters, of whom one is the wife of Sur-
geon Dan Kelly of the Mater Hospital, and
the youngest is Dorothy Coffee. Mrs. Hughes
leaves six children —five boys and one baby girl.
The air disaster of 10 days ago, in which
two ’planes were wrecked through being
caught in a mist near Mt. Victoria, resulted
in the death of Neil Stewart, an expert
flier and prominent member of the Aero
Club. The airman and his wife were on
their way from Dubbo to Sydney, and Mrs.
Stewart, who was in the plane with him,
was lying critically ill at the time of the
airman’s funeral, and was even then un-
aware that the smash had proved fatal to
her husband.
Linda Foy, a tall and graceful girl who
has won a fair amount of stage recognition,
has picked Harold Cooper, of Drummoyne,
as her leading man, and the wedding will
be this side of Christmas. Linda under-
studied Gladys Mbnerieff in “Lady of the
Rose,” and Marie Burke in the Melbourne
production of “Katja.”
Congratulations are to be offered to a
clever mother on a clever daughter. The
mother is still-youthful Mrs. Bedford, pri-
vate secretary to E. J. Tait, of the J.C.W.
Firm for many years. Daughter Saidie,
who first attracted the eye as one of the
Totem girls in “Rose Marie,” is handling
the comedy part of Mutupun in “Laff That
Off” at the Criterion. She has proved her-
self that rare bird, a girl comedian. The
luck of having the part came to her in a
funny, way. She was in Melbourne rehears-
ing for “The Five-o’clock Girl” when she
hurt her leg and had to throw in her danc-
ing part. It was home to Sydney and
mother, and presently, somebody being
wanted, the youngster was given a trial.
After an illness and convalescence that
lasted over a year, Mrs. Roland Foster has
been given a clean bill of health. Last
week she took up her classes again at the
Conservatorium, and there w r as a levee for
the occasion—one long procession of old
pupils bearing congratulations. The sea-
breezes of Clifton Gardens and the sunny
Edgeeliff garden of Mrs. Randell (former
pupil Biddy Raye) completed the convalescence.
Instead of working three abreast, as they
did in Sydney last week, the Divorce Judges
would have to %o out of business if all
couples were as solidly welded as Mr. and
Mrs. John D. Jordan, of Ashfield, were <i (l
years ago. The couple, celebrated last week
and their family gathered from Adelaide.
Perth and various corners of this State for
the party.


H
■ 1
raHn
■
a
mmm
« ■MmmWI
'
■- ,: ■
111
: :
mwmm
wm
u
, :: :
IS
. :• • •
.
tin
■.>.<
■ :
illli
MW
■
■ ■
m
i
m
##
■
m
m
9
m
m
m
M
m
m
■
m
1?
m
FULL FA/BIONED HQ/1 EBY BY


\\' 1 1 / /
ivd
q)^ 0
/
Newest Desig'ns in Quality Ring's
Be guided by Catanach’s in your choice of the Engagement Ring. Their
expert knowledge of Diamonds and long experience in Diamond buying
enable them to offer the very choicest of Gems at the keenest possible prices.
Every Catanach Diamond Ring carries a WRITTEN GUARANTEE.
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
w
ŵ
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckler's
Rlizabethan
Tea Rooms
[?]
The V.A.T.G.'s steeplechase meeting at
Caulfield on Saturday had an attendance that
pleased the committee, but many patrons
wished they hadn’t deserted their firesides.
The wind was piercingly cold, and fur was
as inefficient as cloth or tweed to protect
one against the Alpine blast. Regarding
(he names as omens, many feminine punters
put their faith in .Clear Ice and Second
W-ind, but they gained no profit thereby.
Mayoress Luxton was present wrapped in a
kolinsky fur coat. Mrs. Claude Grice, wear-
ing a pretty ensemble suit of cocoa-shaded
check tweed, was in Ihe committee ladies’
box, where Betty Shackell, in turnout of
vivid blue, made a cheery splash of color.
Airs. Barry Thomson was well furred against
the chilly breeze, and Airs. Wen rue and Airs.
Russell Gabb braved the cold in coats of
mink. Ella Payne’s wrap was of nutria fur,
and Airs. T. Milieu drew a mole coat over
a fawn crfqie de Chine frock. Mrs. Ben
Lempriere, Mrs. A. F. Showers. Airs. James
Purves and Valerie were amongst those who
watched the racing. Felt hats were the
almost universal feminine choice.
The gee-gees didn’t tempt everyone to
Caulfield on Saturday afternoon, for an
almost full house at the Town Hall listened
to the orchestral fare purveyed by the Albl-
bourne Symphony Orchestra under the baton
of Efrem Kurtz, who came this way as one
of the conductors of the Pavlova ballets.
He returns to Europe shortly.
Though there was a lot of advance talk
about the genuine ebony coon who was being
imported to play the leading role of Jol
in “The Show Boat,” and sing the negro
spiritual “Ole Alan River.” it was our own
Colin Crane who sang the number in the
first Australian production of the much
advertised musical comedy at His Alajesty s
on Saturday night. The importation, Air.
Richardson, sat in the audience, a tall, thin
colored gentleman. It is rumored that a
blunder was made in engaging him—lie's
a tenor, and the part requires a basso. With
him were his wife and his secretary, the
last-named rather lighter in complexion than
his principal. Airs. Richardson, who is not
as dark-skinned as her husband, had a gold
lace frock beneath a wrap of white satin
linked to black velvet and splashed with
steel beads. Her black hair, worn longish.
was clasped in fashionable mode.
It is ages since there has been such a roll
up at a first night as mustered to see the
launch ing of the Cotton Blossom, the “show
boat” of the piece. The mixed crew con-
sists of Britishers,, negroes and creoles.
Feminine apparel runs the gamut of fashion
from the bustle to the latest styles, for the
action covers a period of 40 years. One of
the evening's hits is made with the old-
fasliioned skirt dance. In a charming ballet
of the “Florodora” era the dresses are of
white tulle, much frilled, scattered with
bunches of cherries and having polonaises
of cerise taffeta with millinery to match.
The dancers of the first; ballet are attired
in pale blue taffeta, bunched up and flounced,
trailed with pink roses and topped with
matching poke-bonnets. The costuinicre
slipped in her date's when she made the
pretty Magnolia, played by Nydia d’Arnell,
wear white pantalettes beneath her flowered
taffeta frock. It was the flapper of a pre-
vious generation who exhibited her undies
and embroidery. There were flowers a-plenty
for old favorites and newcomers and a laurel
wreath for producer George Highland, who
gave thanks. Frederic Bentley, who was the
showman-captain, was rewarded with sundry
bottles, a Lend doll and other tributes.
The r.s. and d.c. on the first night
presented a gay appearance, for though
wraps Could not be shed there was a splen-
did array of brocade, velvet and fur coats.
The Alackey lady’s cape of black velvet
dangled a steel fringe. Dr. Cecile Greil,
whose daughter AI Uriel was the charming
Julie, was in the manager’s box. The Geof-
frey Syme family, the George Bussells. Airs.
Percy Dean, the Charlie Tails, Efrem Kurtz,
the 11. 11. Smiths and Airs. \Y. Merry were
there.
Giannini’s gown at her concert at the
Auditorium on Saturday night brought to
mind lapis lazuli and garnets. The robe of
blue satin cascaded over the stage and had a
girdle of gold. The flowing sleeves of chiffon
were of garnet shade, ami a basket of holly
handed up by an admirer blended nicely
with the lady's apparel. Alolly Bernstein
sat at the piano in a deep red frock with
a golden edging about the flounces. The
audience was large and keenly appreciative.
Clad in peacock-blue velvet, Mrs. Arthur
Barrels, wife of the Consul-General for
U.S.A., served a dish of tea with orchestral
accompaniment to many guests on Friday
afternoon, with Signorina Dusolina Giannini
as the magnet. The Garrels’s South Yarra
residence was dressed up with flowers, and
society was there in its best bib and tucker.
Giannini shed a beautiful fur coat to disclose
a dregs-of-wine crepe-de-Chine gown with a
beige-toned collar the same shade as her felt
hat. Her accompanist, Molly Bernstein, a
most retiring maiden, was in nigger-brown
velvet with a hat of biscuit shade. Violinist
Sol Deutseh, Mark Levian and E. J, Grave-
stock also trailed in the star’s wake. The
Elder lady, who headed a bevy of handled
dames, Airs. Harold Clapp, Mrs. Norman
Brookes and Dr. Cecile Greil from New
York were there. Air. Barrels and Consul
T. 11. Robinson, with a few others of the
sterner sex, joined the party after work
hours.
Giannini, whose dresses are as artistic as
her voice, put on her gladdest rags to be
feted by the Music Club members at the
Lyceum Club rooms. Beneath a brocaded
grey wrap with a collar of silver fox she wore
a white movie gown, the uneven hem-line of
which showed cherry red beneath. Secretary
Muriel Campbell handed the singer a posy of
daphne, pink carnations and Parma violets.
Thomas Brenlnnll spoke words of welcome
and appreciation and referred to Alblly Bern-
stein’s share in tin 1 piima donna's success.
Later Fritz Hart appeared upon the scene,
and Lilian Stott sang some verses of Fiona
AlcLeod which Mr. Hart has set to music.
Sol Deutseh, E. J. Gravestock and Mark
Levien escorted the Signorina. Amongst
those who paid tribute to Giannini were Airs.
Fritz Hart, Airs. Harry Emmerton, Dr. and
Airs. Bartolini and pianist Harold Bivins.
Staged cabaret fashion in the lower ball-
room of the Town Hall, the Overseas
League’s annual ball was a bright fixture.
Alias F. AI. Hughes, one of the ticket secre-
taries, was in Wedgwood-blue sprinkled with
silver, and her co-worker. Aliss M. A. Imrie,
was in silk lace of deep blonde toning. Airs.
L. J.. New,stead's frock of black tulle bor-
dered with white and mounted on gold lame
was a happy and unusual evening model;
with Airs. li. J. Onians, whose upholstery
was pale green with oxidised lace, she aided
returns with a stall of carnival novelties
and balloons. A sword dance stepped by
Air. and Aliss Alcl,nine to the accompani-
ment of Piper McKenzie's music was a
curtain-raiser to supper.
After just missing the goal several times
Susie Tolhurst, here pictured by Lafayette,
has become the woman golf champion of
this State, and has thereby given the Aletro-
politan Club
another silver
pot with which
to decorate its
mantel piece
for a term.
The “Garden
Club of Aus-
tralia” h a s
been very suc-
cessful tli i s
season, as the
profess i o n a 1
cham p i o n
Jud d i s
attached to its
links. Also a
senior pennant
ame t o
the Metropoli-
tan Intel y.
Miss Tolhurst
is a lover of
country life,
and takes an
active part in
running a poultry farm at Mornington,
where she raises squabs. She knows as much
about the birds as she does about golf, and
that’s quite a lot.
Though it is rather late in the season for
debutantes, forty charmingly upholstered
buds reserved their coming out for the Old
Parradians’ Ball at St. Kilda Town Hall.
r Phe ex-st,udents had about 900 guests to
dance beneath the purple, green and royal
blue colors of their college. Mrs. P. A.
Matthews, wife of the president, wore a
black gown sparkling with jet. Mrs. J. A.
Gorman, wearing lemon-colored taffeta and
silver lace, marshalled the debs.
The Advertising Movement’s Ball at St.
Kilda Plaza on Thursday night was a pic-
turesque and gay turnout, profits of which
went to the Mayor’s Hospital Fund. Tiie
Iff; i, let i \ was represented and won the
prizes for the best advertising set of four. It
was a very large pink-covered journal that
was mysteriously propelled into the ballroom,
and on opening it disclosed Mavis Claring-
bold, a slim Red Page; Dr. Guthrie Plante,
unmistakable as an ae-tor from Poverty
Point: Charlie Shepard, in the form of the
Wild Cat; F. I). Brangham, who directs
The Bulletin and Woman’s Mirror
advertising in Victoria, and arranged the set,
as a dusky gentleman with the boomerang,
easily identified as “Aboriginalities.” Dr.
Plante’s handsome wife in blue Pompadour
gown, powder and patches, was framed in a
huge silver looking-glass. She represented
the V Oman’s Mirror, and won a prize
for the most effective advertising character
impersonated by a lady. So altogether it was
the office’s evening out. Mayoress Luxton,
Blamire Young and A. W. Iveown were the
judges. Among other prize-winners were
Barnet Glass, Vacuum Oil, Bryant and May
and the Patou Advertising Co."
The impression gathered on stepping into
St. Kilda Town Hall from out the chilly
night on the occasion of the Insurance
Institute Ball was of youth triumphant.
The decorations of pink and gold made a
glowing setting for the brightest and dainti-
est of dresses. The Homoeopathic Hospital,
the Women’s Hospital, and the institute’s
tennis club shared the proceeds. An inter-
lude was the presentation by the president,
11. N. Bainbridge, of prizes won in the inter-
company tennis tournament. Mrs. Bain-
bridge, who, with her husband, gave greeting
to special guests, wore pale lemon with a
glimmer of pearl embroidery.
This is Dr. Gwynneth Buchanan,, the
just-elected president of the Lyceum Club.
She's a D.Sc.. not a medico, and is Senior
Lecturer on
Zoology at the
T’ni., of which
she is a*gradu-
ate. During
a recess she
spent a fort-
night with Dr.
Y’onge’s party
of scientists
exploring the
Barrier Reef.
On taking up
the presidency
of the Lyceum
Club she en-
tertained the
members with
a lantern lec-
ture on deni-
zens of the reef.
La f ayett e
made the por-
trait.
The students of ihe Commerce Depart-
ment at the I ni. took possession of the
smaller ballroom of the Town Hall one night
last week and danced right merrily. Pro-
fessor 1). B. Copland, Dean of the Faculty,
was there with Mrs. Copland to do die
honors, she in chenille-embossed amber
georgette. Beryl Rouch, whose black gown
had a tracery of russet-red velvet leaves, and
Until Iloban, in pink, lion, secretaried the
hop. Chancellor MacFarland smiled upon
the revels. Mrs. Stanley Addison, whose
pink and silver gown had touches of blue;
the E. C. Dyasons, Mr. and Mrs. O. Foeuan-
der and the A. A. Fitzgeralds were dancers.
Mary Hordern, daughter of the Arthur
Horderns, of South Yarra, was given a
pre-nuptial party by her parents on Thurs-
day night, a few days before her marriage to
Dr. Henry Searby. The Alexandra Club pro-
vided a pink and mauve flftral setting for
the bride-to-be, who wore beige pink satin.
Her mother was attired in deep blue chiffon
and lace. Mrs. (’. A. 11. Searby came in
black lace and Mrs. John Searby chose
lime-green' with a glint of crystal. Richard
Stawell and his lady, Mrs. Harry Emmerton
and her niece Mary Emmerton. Uni.
Chancellor MacFarland and Mrs. and Mrs.
F. Krcrouse were guests. Mrs. Krerouse,
by the way. lias just returned from a trip to
Europe. Violinist Edouard Lambert, his
pianist son Raymond, and contralto Violet
Somerset made music.
Ex-students of the Presentation Convent
had a re-union dance at No. !) one evening
last week. Mrs. T. Murphy, president of
the Old Girls’ Association ; Mrs. .1. A.
Cahill, the lion, sec.; Mrs. M. Brennan, and
a bunch of aiding hostesses saw to it that
all guests had a happy evening.
Mrs. 11. .1. Robertson, who is seeking the
warmth of Queensland to recuperate after
an illness, assembled her fellow-workers in
connection with the Hostel for the Aged
Blind, of which institution she is president,
for a parting cup of tea at the Royal Auto-
mobile Club. For several years Mrs. Robert-
son was president, of the Women’s Automo-
bile Club, whose members have now been
absorbed by the R.A.C. She wore a frock
and hat that blended several shades of blue,
and a sable necklet. Muriel Cheek sang.
Bessie Donaldson foresaw in the cards
pleasant futures for all who cared to have
their fortunes told, and Margaret Kerr gave
clever imitations of vaudeville stars.
The Arts and Crafts Society is housing
an interesting exhibition at its headquarters,
the contributors being schoolchildren and
technical-college students, with 20 as the
age limit. Trainees of the Kindergarten
College show clever designs in pottery, toys
made in paper and fine cardboard, and
cheery subjects for the nursery frieze. Pupils of
Swinburne Technical College provide unique
suggestions in designs for decorative purposes
and some excellent posters. Deft fingers of
students of the P.L.C. have fashioned upon
table-looms beautifully woven scarves and
attractive striped belts of the gayest colors.
Box Ilill Technical College’s strong suit is
designs for stained woodwork. The Emilv
McPherson College supports the art of
needlecraft in lingerie and a baby's frock.
St. Andrew's, the M.L.C., Lauriston and Fin-
ton are other seminaries competing for the
prizes offered. Shepparton High School',>
quota is remarkable for imaginative pictures,
the work of young pupils, suggested by
nursery rhymes.
The Lud Mayor helped to launch A. E.
Newbury’s show at the Athenaeum Hall. The
artist, who contemplates a visit to London,
has gone for inspiration to hill scenery about
Olinda, Eltham and other bright spots where
the wattle blooms. Of those who consulted
catalogues tin the opening day were Mrs.
J. T. Tweddle and her daughter Shirley,
Mrs. Newbury. Jo Sweetman and Frank
Clewlow, the Repertory director.
Two or three years ago Miss Mary Turner,
daughter of the man who was Vic. Premier
and Australian Treasurer, commissioned
Bertram Mackennal to execute two busts of
her father for presentation to the count’\v
for which lie labored so faithfully. One of
the gifts will find a niche in State Parlia-
ment House; the other goes to Canberra.
They have arrived, and prove to be admirable
likenesses chiselled in Serravezza marble,
cream in tone and perfect in quality.
Apropos, Mackennal has transferred his
domicile to Torquay, where he lias a fine
studio, mostly of glass—it was built for the
production of moving-pictures.
Florists are hard pressed these days to
keep up supplies; the violet is one of the
few flowers that have withstood the ravages
of Jack Frost. The window of a leading
flower-shop presented a unique sight the
other afternoon ; it contained bowls of mari-
golds and jars of daffodils, but all bore the
"Sold” ticket. Purchasers had evidently been
asked to postpone collecting the wares until
the very last minute so as to keep the win-
dow dressed.
At a morning-tea given by the Travellers'
Aid Society Dr. Cecile Greil, of New York,
chatted about the work of a kindred organi-
sation in the IJ.S.A. Mayoress Luxton paid
her first visit to the T.A.S. headquarters and
general secretary Nest Malcolm and her co-
workers took pride in showing her over the
hostel.
The city dads are bent on ridding the
civic centre of unnecessary noise. The soft
pedal is being put upon the raucous voice of
the newsboy; warnings have been given to
the purveyors of gramophones, piano-players
and radio sets, and motorists, especially
motor-cyclists, have been informed that if
they make too much of a din they will be
fined. But the electric trams, bad offenders,
too, have escaped the ukase.
An hour’s motor-run from the city last
week took a Chatterer into a snow-clad
landscape. It was at Macedon, where motor-
cars innumerable were parked on the
mountain slope, and visitors young and old
were tossing snowballs about. Very small
children collected great armfuls of snow,
in a vain hope that it would endure till they
got it back to their homes. It was a scene
such as one sees on English Christmas-
cards, with white-sprinkled pines and hedges,
and, at the Golf-house, holly bushes covered
in red berries.
Our parks and gardens are designed mostly
with a view to spring and summer flower
displays, and a big percentage of the trees
bear foliage that falls with the autumn, so
it is refreshing to discover a bit of road-
way that makes a good winter show. From
Essendon Town Hall for a length of about
three-quarters of a mile is a plantation of
wattle down the centre of the main street.
Just now the thoroughfare is all golden, and
rouses the keenest admiration from passers-
by.
Lord Loughborough, who fell out of a
window and was killed in London on Sunday,
• spent a good deal of time in Australia —
chiefly at Coombe Cottage as Melba's guest.
He married Shiela Chisholm, daughter of
the Sydney stock and station agent, and
his aunt married Percy Fitzgerald, brother of
solicitor Ted Fitzgerald, of Melbourne. The
members of the Rosslyn family have held
the peerage divorce record for some years.
The Earl divorced one wife and was divorced
by another; both his sisters divorced their
husbands: and Lord Loughborough, who was
heir to the title, was divorced by his wife
(who then married Sir John Milbanke) in
p. 126. He was wounded during the campaign
against the Senussi in 1915, and married the
Sydney beauty, who was then doing war-work-
in Cairo with her mother, while he was
convalescing. He had a sense of humor and
great charm of manner, but life had always
offered him problems which he could not
solve.
Dr. Constance Ellis is back in Melbourne
from Batavia, where she attended the Science
Congress, with Prof. Ernest Scott's wife
as travelling companion. She left Mrs. Scott
to revel in the fascinations of Java for a
while longer.
Leonie Levy, who has been directing the
publicity for the Repertory Society’s shows,
is to be a December bride. The man of her
choice is Dr. Zelman Schwartz, a Collins-
street eye-specialist.


0
a
m
Mli
72
4
ft
ggg^l
5C
»
6065^2.
Styled in the finest
manner of to-day
IMBUED with advanced style and alluring
charm --- possessing a new liveliness of
performance and even greater dependability
and economy than Dodge Brothers cars ever
before have possessed --- the new Dodge
Brothers Six is unmatched by any other car
at or near its-price. Of the score or more of
major betterments which this new car ushers
in, none is more conspicuously important
than its exclusive Mono-piece Body. This
remarkable new development combines
beauty, strength and comfort to a degree
never before attained in a car of such moderate
price. And besides, it positively will not
develop squeaks or rattles even after thou-
sands of miles of hardest usage.
New
□□DEEBRDTHERS SIX
A CHRYSLER MOTORS PRODUCT
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS
NeiC South Wales Harden & Johnston, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria . Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Austral Motors, Limited, Brisbane
South Australia . . .
Western Australia .
New Zealand ....
. Waymouth Motor Company, Lid., Adelaide
. . . Winterbottom Motor Company, Ltd., Perth
Northern Automobiles, Ltd., Auckland
T asmania
Co-operative Motors , Ltd., Hobart


WHITVOHfy
MORE fI.W.
LOCOMOTIVES FOR,
INDIA/
J.
WA
m
A
w.
Wa
A
fi
A
l
Vi
i
•v'
v a*
Recent orders booked by Armstrong
Whitworth include 23 4-6-2 Loco-
motives and Tenders of the new
standard XB type for the 5 ft. 6in.
broad-gauge lines of the Eastern Bengal
Railway, and the Madras and
Southern Mahratta Railway.
Twelve of these engines for the
Madras and Southern Mahratta Railway
will be shipped in fully erected con-
dition on one of the motor vessels
specially designed and constructed by
Armstrong Whitworth for this service.
Sir W. G. Armstrong Whitworth
and Co., Ltd.
Sales Organisation:
Park House, Great Smith Street,
London, S.W.I, England.
Works & Shipyards - - Newcastle-upon-Tyne
Australian Agents:
GILBERT LODGE & CO.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide.
SHIPS MARINE ENGINES LOCOMOTIVES
GENERAL ENGINEERING
M.C.41.
ẁ
Legal Notices.
T'O ANY DAUGHTER OR DAUGHTERS
1 OF ERNEST COHEN SON OF
MARK COHEN who died in New
Zealand on 3rd March 1928 (other
than Agues Alexandriua Cohen Nell
Florence Cohen Fay Audrey Cohen and
Norine Jessie Cohen) and any guardian
or parent of any such daughter or
daughters and to all persons claiming
by through or under them or any of
them.
PURSUANT to an Order made on 31st
day of May 1929 by a Judge of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand you are hereby called
upon to send in to the undersigned on or
before the Ist day of October 1929 your
claims to the estate of the abovenamed de-
ceased failing which the said estate will be
distributed amongst those entitled thereto
disregarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 6th day of
June, 1929.
G. G. ROSE,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
AX
V
FOR 87 YEARS
“The Examiner” has been the trusted Friend of the Family
in Northern Tasmania. It is the Oldest Newspaper in
Tasmania, and is still the Family Newspaper.
FULL INFORMATION, COPIES, ADVERTISING RATES
Obtainable from
W. R. ROLPH & SONS
Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
LAUNCESTON.
MR. V. W. MARGETTS,
122 Flinders Street,
MELBOURNE.
1
MR. W. G. DOUGAN,
: 726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR”
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
TUESDAY—Price 3d
<r
free pattern
every week
nim
Jelly is the craze!
(rjXIF you share the fashion-
able craze for Jellies
here is a hint. A jelly is
the smart thing to serve:
serve it smartly. Ask your
chinawarc dealer to send
you half-a-dozen of Shelley’s
Jelly Moulds in strong
white porcelain. Then your
jellies will always turn out
with the chosen shape
sharply defined—just as it
should be 1
Ask
TO SEE THE LATEST
SHELLEY
Tea S ETS -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
* China
Nursery \MkR.e
Zy Lucie Attweu
v Hilda Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
ẃ
Itchy Spot
is sure evidence that your skin is
out-of-condition. Don’t neglect the
first symptom of disease!
Help your skin by anointing it
daily with Zam-Buk. This refined
herbal ointment extends a purifying
and healing action far below the
surface skin. In this way Zam-Buk
eradicates deep-seated germs, in-
duces a more healthy state in the
tissues and relieves, or prevents
serious disease.
All sore, chafed, itchy and in-
flamed conditions are soothed
by Zam-Buk. There is nothing like
it for keeping the skin in a clear
unblemished condition and quickly
healing everyday injuries.
Every home should keep Zam-Buk handy
for cuts, burns, scalds, eczema, poisoned
wounds, ulcers, bad legs, piles, etc.,
Successfully used for over 25 years. 1/6
& 3/6 box. AH chemists & stores.
'amßuk
AT THE
“AMBASSADORS”
PRELIMINARY
ANNOUNCEMENT.
The “Ambassadors’ ” Direction
announce that they hope to
re-open with their usual
Saturday Gala Night on
August 10.


IS
i mm
B H: I
lAS
: m
Ml
na
U J
m
t *
HI
■
-,c-r
■
mm
11
1
.. ..
■
• m % m :
■
MBS,
mm
EXCLUSIVE
DISTINCTIVE
TAILORING
PERFECTCUT
THE FINEST
MATERIALS
AND NEWEST
PATTERNS
MAYFAIR 1670
LADIES TAILOR
LON'DO n
of
19 Princes Street
Hanover Square W. I.
EXTENDS YOU A WELCOME
SPECIALISING IN SUP-
PLYING VISITORS TO
THE "OLD COUNTRY "
WITH TAILORED
CLOTHES SUITABLE
FOR BOTH AUSTRA-
LASIAN AND EUROPE-
AN WEAR-HOPES FOR
THE PLEASURE OF
YOUR VISIT-A SUIT TO
PLEASE THE MOST
FASTIDIOUS AT 15 GNS
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Tai .
HER MAJESTY’S: THE FIVE-
O’CLOCK GIRL.
(Commencing Saturday.)
ROYAL: BREWSTER’S MILLIONS.
CRITERION: THE PATSY.
(Commencing Saturday)
PALACE: NICOLA.
OICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CEIrEBRITY VAUBEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOI/RNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
SHOW BOAT.
ROYAL:
BRACULA.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE PRINCE ANB THE BEGGAR
MAIB.
MEW COMEDY THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT,
JOURNEY’S END.
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
** MELBOURNE.
FOR AN EXTENDED SEASON,
THE 100 PER CENT. ALL TALKIE,
SPEAKEASY.
With Paul Page, Lola Lane and Henry B. Walthall.
ALSO
FOX MOVIETONE TTEMS.
New Way Stops
Dandruff.
Grows Hair.
Six out of eight are bald or grey at 60, yet very
few need be. Tiie hair roots can be stimulated to
new life very quickly by a new scalp-invigorating
preparation known as “Vi-Glo.” This acts ' a the
growth and color cells much as rain acts on a parched
plant So long as the hair roots and color glands
are not dead (and they rarely die), “Vi-Glo” will
show remarkable results, growing new, youthful hair
and restoring color to fading hair. Ask your chemist
for a 3/- package of “Vi-Glo” to-day, or send 3/4
for outfit to Vi-Glorient Co., Kembla Building,
Sydney. Satisfaction guaranteed.
ẅ
The Telegraph
helps to make “a day
and incidentally "a pay”
—at least for those who
use its columns! !
The Telegraph Newspaper
Company, Ltd.,
Queen and Elizabeth Sts., Brisbane.
Missing Friends.
TONES, JAMES SYDNEY, eldest son of
late J. C. Jones, Mt. Keira, please com-
municate J. W. RUSSELL, Solicitor, Wol-
longong. Information liis benefit.
VfEXT-OF-KIN of THOMAS WILLIAMS,
late of Ryde, New South Wales, Aus-
tralia, Brickrtiaker. See notice advertised in
issue of this paper of 17th July. 1929.
W. A. PARKER,
Master in Equity,
Supreme Court of New South Wales.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queenslands
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The Governor went to Ascot races, accom-
panied by Mrs. /Eneas McDonnell, who lias
been staying at Government House, and
attended by Colonel Worthingtou-Wilmer.
Others whom the vice-regal box sheltered
during the afternoon were General Chauvel’s
lady, Mesdames Isaac Moore, I hiekett-White,
Gerald Gore, A. E. Goldham, Ella O’Shea
and Audrey Coldham. Mrs. McDonnell was
in navy foulard, patterned in fawn and
mastic, worn with a black repp marocain
coat and black ballibuntal hat. The Gen-
eral's wife wore ivory silk patterned in
brown, with a cinnamon-velvet coat and bat.
At the Naval Ball in the Naval Depot,
another function which his Ex. attended,
the flags displayed were so varied and valu-
able that they were insured for the night
for £lOOO. The binnacles from the sunken
Australia and the lights of the Emden, a
torpedo from the Australia and a naval
wireless set of the latest model were among
the adornments. The hosts wore blue
undress uniforms, and the military guests
were in scarlet mess uniforms. Mrs. Mc-
Donnell was in a silver sequinned frock,
Mrs. W. 11. Barnes chose cornflower blue,
Mrs. T. R. Beamish’s petal-pink marietta
had a flower at the waist, and Mrs. George
Mocatta wore blue, with a houri coat
’broidered in peach blooms.
At the Catholic Ball, in the John Reid
Memorial Hall, there were a very large
number of debs. Archbishop Duhig is absent
in the country, so the girls made their bow
to the Bishop-elect of Toowoomba, the Right
Rev. Dr. J. Byrne. All the buds carried
early Victorian posies of spring flowers, and
there were many pretty frocks worn.
There was a great gathering of journalists
and near-journalists to welcome Harry Gul-
lett, the Federal Minister for Customs, to
Brisbane —no name is more honored than his
in Australian newspaperdom. Colonel Cam-
eron came with him to the Press Institute’s
little entertainment, and they were both
welcomed by new president Lavis —almost
his first job.
Already Brisbane begins to shake hands
with friends from the saltbush and the
mulga; the city’s carnival week runs from
the 12th to the 17tli, both inclusive. Even
as much as a fortnight ago a late-comer
searched through the city for a bunk, and
had no luck till he reached the 16th camping
place. New features are promised for this
year’s Exhibition, the greatest of the week's
annuals; among them, for the first time in
Queensland, a show of Bulletin original
drawings by all its best-known artists, past
and present.
Noel Douglas Muir, son of the Coominya
Muirs, and Ivy White, daughter of the
Henry Whites, Whitehill station, Longreach,
were made’ one in St. Andrew’s, Longreach,
by the Rev. Frank Harty. The bride, who
was given away by her father, wore ivory
mousseline, and a veil of old Limerick lace;
her sister ’maided in powder-blue georgette,
with a hat of flesh-pink summer felt. A
reception was held at the rectory.
Yalda Ruthning was given a pink kitchen
tea at Waldtron, Dornoch-tcrrace, by Misses
V. E. and W. Ruthning. The color scheme
was all pink—sweet-peas in crystal and
silver vases and gumtips in pink.tulle, with
a wedding-bell and a pink slipper favor at
the place of each guest, and pink sunshades
and a pink wedding-bell overhead.
WE STRALI A.
Perth.
After his Ex. had opened Parliament he
and his lady took tea with Plush Chamber
president Kirwan in his room, where Mrs.
Geoffrey Mclntyre hostessed in navy with
grey fur, set off with white French lawn.
Speaker Walker entertained in Us room,
where Beatrice Knight presided in wild
honey crepe do Chine. The v.r. lady wore a
brown fur coat over her blue ring velvet,
and Mrs. Kerr Pearce, who accompanied her,
donned black, flecked with white, and grey
furs.
“Thank you, Doctor; it didn’t hurt a bit/’
That’s what they say to sweet-faced Edwyna
Ross, the first
woman i n
W.A. to qualify
ns a dentist.
After taking
h e r degree,
Miss Ross
entered into
private prac-
tice in Clare-
mont, but has
since been
given an ap-
pointment b y
the. Education
D c p a rtment,
and spends her
time travelling
from school to
school, cover-
ing an area of
ao m e thou-
sands °f
square miles.
The Hockey Carnival dance was the
cheeriest event of the season. It was a semi-
cabaret affair, and as everyone knew every-
one else things went swimmingly. At supper
tini<‘ umpires’ whistles were used to cal]
order and Dave Freecorn proposed the toast
of Doc. Tregonning, president of the Aus-
tralian Hockey Association, who responded
nobly The ballet staged a hockey match,
with Tom Louch as referee and prize
awarder. Full-back Malcolm Plaistowe’s
wife was there, swirling blue georgette; Mrs.
Dave Freecorn fluttered Nile green with go d
lace; Del Barker was nymphlike in trailing
whites; and Mrs. Waliic Urnnack wore blacK.
Mrs. R(*x Norrie sported her bridal white.-',
and Poppy Salom twinkled m steel beaus
on pink marietta.
The ball promoted by the Shell Co. for
the Children's Hospital was riotously suc-
cessful, about 150 U dancers squeezing their
way round Temple Court ballroom. Bal-
loons with fine streamers bobbed about aim
a giant figure, the “Spirit of Shell, domi-
nated the dais, which represented a coral
island, and was made of shells of all sizes.
Specialty dances were given by Henri anci
Jeanette, and the T.C. ballet roused en-
thusiasm. The Red Devil set won a prize,
and the Daily News boys sold a special
edition of their paper to swell the funds.
For the Fiat Club dance in the Karrakatta
Club house, the winter garden was set aside
for bridge and the committee handed round
supper. Dr. Athelstan Shaw, president ot
the club, was there, and among the dancers
was Mrs. Arthur Anderson, in cheery floral
embossed chenille georgette. Mr. and 1 I> -
C. Friel, she wearing beaded georgette ana
Miss Pearson, in black taffetas and lace,
were responsible for the arrangements.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Mrs. Philip Fysh, here pictured is the
clever lady who. played the part of Judith
Bliss in “Hay Fever.” when the Launceston
Players gave
us a treat at
th e Theatre
Royal. Th e
whole show
was well done,
sparkling act-
ing being sup-
plemented b y
smart dressing
an d artistic
staging. Mrs.
Fysh and Mrs.
Kcverall Mc-
Intyre (whom
Sydney folk
will remember
as the daugh-
ter of Prof.
K dge worth
David and his
lady) were
responsible for
the producing
and man age -
racnt.
. His Ex. and Margaret O’Grady put in an
appearance at the Violet Ball at the Belle-
rive Town Hall in aid of the partially
blinded soldiers. Mrs. Berry, as hon. sec.,
had worked up the affair very well and was
able to hand over a substantial sum as the
result of her labors.
Beattie Jordan and James Marsh had a
hard row to hoe in judging the sets at the
Old Ilobartians’ fancy dress ball. Over
700 dancers thronged the floor of the City
Hall, and some of the costumes were- very
clever. The first prize went to a Wooden
Warriors set.
The Scotch College Ball at the Albert Hafl,
Launceston, drew a crowd of youngsters,
both not grown-up and just grown-up. The
decorations were in the school colors
maroon and blue. Mayoress Dorothy Osborne
wore black taffeta with a short velvet coat,
and Mrs. W. W. V. Briggs, wife of the
principal of Scotch, was in pale beige lace.
The committee of the Mothercraft Home
handed supper to the Launceston Players
(who gave a performance of “Hay Fever in
aid of that deserving but chronically liard-up
institution), at the Imperial, after the show.
Though the weather was freezing, the
visitors’ reception was warm and cordial and
the theatre was packed. Chief Justice
Nicholls made a speech of thanks.
The City Council burst forth in a new
place by organising a free concert at the
City Hall, with the Municipal Band as the
chief feature, and James Scott Power (city
organist), Jean Hibbard, Daisy Waters,
Grace Whitelaw and Fred Herand as sup-
porters. The hall was crowded.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The Hon Mrs. F'. Barry, mother of Lady
Hore-Ruthven, after a lengthy visit to this
State, has left for Fremantle to board the
liner Ascanius, bound for England. Pat
Hore-Ruthven, who came with his grand-
mother to spend his vacation from Eton with
his parents, has remained behind. His stay
is to be extended.
A dance in aid of St. Peter’s College Mis-
sion was held at the Glenelg Maison do
Danse. The committee, composed of young
Society folk, who were assisted by a few
elders, worked hard and attained a great
success. A dancing competition was won by
Molly Fotheringham and Lum Rymill. Ice-
land "poppies and almond blossoms figured in
the decorations.
The latest theatrical excitement lias been
the seven nights’ run of Juanita at the
Theatre Royal; Adelaide has never seen
«uch crowded houses night after night since
“Rose Marie.” The v.-r, party and the
Mayor and Mayoress were patrons during
the week. At the end of the season a
benefit performance for Minda Home and
the Children’s Hospital was given and the
committees of the two institutions sold
flowers and programmes. Edith Aird, who
wrote the book, and Jack Fewster and Tom
King, responsible for music and lyrics, can
refute the assertion that prophets lack honor
in their own country.
The Uni. ball saw the launching of 24
d(;bs. The wives of the profs, devised the
decorations. The refectory is such an ornate
building that little was required apart from
brass bowls of tango poppies, yellow wattle
and marigolds. Supper was served in a mar-
quee. Their Exes, attended, accompanied
by the Hon. Mrs. Barry and Miss Johnson.
Mrs. E. W. Holden shepherded the buds, who
made their curtseys to the Governor.
Old pupils of the Presbyterian Girls’ Col-
lege, had their dance at the Libera] Club
Hall, and the Arts and Crafts students in-
dulged in a tal masque in the King’s Theatre
ballroom. Both shivoos were well attended.


* the tHP°
Chosen by prominent stage
folk, public speakers and
singers.
They protect the throat and
keep the voice clear.
‘Allenbunys
Block Currant PASTILLES
Your Chemist stocks them.
1/- and 1/9 per box.
BENCER’S
@ FOOD®
IVWVM *l*^^"*
Food
Uegd. Teadb mark.
At Bedtime!
Benger’s Food makes a delici-
ous supper dish, soothing,
sleep-inducing and very
nourishing. It is also the best
light diet for all digestive
troubles.
From a Doctor: —
“Benger’s Pood is the finest thing
to go to bed on.”
Write for booklet to; —BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
For 136 years
Rowland’s Macassar Oil has been a favorite
dressing for the hair. Its close resemblance
to the natural oil has caused it to be used
more and more as something better than a
hair dressing. It keeps the hair healthy, and
prevents the encroachment of greyness and
baldness.
ißwland’s
Macassar Oil
Of all Chemists.
Stores and Hair-
dressers. Red for
dark hair; golden
for fair or grey
hair. _,
A. ROWLAND & SONS, LTD.,
112 Guilford Street, Loudon, W.C.1.,
ENGLAND. c.t.p.65
PARADISE PLUMES
BY GILBERT MUNRO TURNBULL
JllujlraJioixj by □
Synopsis : After a holiday in Syd-
ney, Stephen Blake is returning by
the Horatau to 'New Guinea, where he
is a : District Magistrate on an out-
station. On board ship he soon be-
comes acquainted with a party of
Austral-Papuans, including Jim Don-
nelly, Jack Williams and missionary
Mervyn W'oods, and he also meets Pro-
fessor Hicks, an anthropologist of
international reputation. On the day
of sailing, Blake is momentarily fas-
cinated by a girl’s grey eyes, and early
in the voyage he is introduced to the
girl by the Professor, who has made
her _ acquaintance. Blake remembers
having seen her bid a touching fare-
well to a youth before sailing. Her
name is Lesley Rowan, and she is as
interested in the shy, quiet personality
of Blake as he is strangely exalted
through knowing her.
CHAPTER 111.
Fairer and Warmer.
THE days slipped by and all hands
settled down to the ordered routine of
shipboard life. There had been a
few full hours when the Moratau tied up to
a, small wharf on the lower reaches of the
Brisbane River, and there had been a
hurried requisitioning of taxis, a crowded
hour or two in the city, and at the end a
breathless scramble up the gangplank to
the accompaniment of short, impatient
blasts from the siren.
Cape Moreton was far astern, Sandy Cape
was a blur on the horizon, and they were
heading into the sheltered waters enclosed
by the Barrier Reef. The days were clear;
at dusk the setting sun drenched the ocean
vvith molten gold, and at night stars glowed
like fairy jewels in a sky of illimitable
black velvet.
Blake and Lesley Rowan became more
friendly day by day. They walked the
decks together, she trim and slender, her
cheeks glowing, her eyes dancing with en-
joyment of it all; he square-shouldered
and with a spring in his stride, the picture
of high spirits and smiling ease. People
lolling in deck chairs looked up at them
as they passed and exchanged sly nods and
meaning glances; hardened old cynics in
the smokeroom looked on and laid the odds;
the apathetic eyes of disheartened middle
age became wistful, and even the rollicking
quoit players gave them right of way. Some-
times they sat side by side and chatted
together, or read for hours on end; some-
times they visited the bridge as guests of
the skipper; and there were nights when
they danced together under the stars.
Stephen Blake, making the most of the
delightful opportunities which a sea voyage
affords, established himself as her cavalier
in very definite fashion. Every day he dis-
covered in her new qualities that delighted
him; _ every day he learned by startling
experience something of her inmost nature,
its tenderness, its trustfulness, its charm;
and every day he strove mightily to please
her. In all her moods—laughing, grave,
thoughtful, merry—he kept telling himself
over and over again that this was his
woman, and that soon he would claim her.
And because all his formative years had
been lived in Papua, where it is an unwritten
law among men to mind one’s own busi-
ness, he never led her into the discussion
of personalities, never attempted to ques-
tion her, to draw her out, to pry into her
private affairs. Neither did he insinuate
into his manner towards her any suggestion
of flirtation or romance. In out-back Papua
white men either serve, cherish and protect
the women of their own race, or else they
forsake them utterly. Stephen Blake was
of the order of men that places them upon
a pedestal—and keeps them there.
One shining morning he found her in a
sheltered corner behind the smokestack. She
was leaning forward, her chin cupped in
her hand, watching dreamily the play of
sunbeams on the sea, the white surf break-
ing against a jutting headland to port, and
the faint outline of shimmering peaks on
the skyline, soon to become verdant islands
rising majestically from the sea.
She looked up and discovered him stand-
ing there.
“It is so fascinating, don’t you think, to
discover a world that is entirely new?” she
murmured. “And it is good beyond every-
thing to be alive this blessed, gracious
morning.”
A lone sailorman on. the forecastle head
lifted his voice in song:
“1 wish I had someone to 10-o-ove me,
Someone to”
Instantly her mood of seriousness evapor-
ated, a smile puckered her lips and her
eyes were full of laughter.
Blake grinned in lazy contentment.
The Moratau was now well within the
reef-studded waters. Groups of islands,
bright green against a cobalt sky, showed
enticing glimpses of gleaming white beaches
upon which little waves broke and mur-
mured; clusters of barren pinnacles lifted
themselves sombrely from the sea, their
summits wrought into fantastic shapes by
the cyclones of a million years; here and
there patches of livid green showed on the
placid surface of the sea—innocent-looking
patches that masked treacherous reefs—and
waves broke white against gaunt rocks over
which myriads of sea birds squawked and
screamed.
The Great Barrier Reef! To-day the soft
breeze holds a crisp, vivid freshness; the
sun dances enticingly on the waters, and
the surface of the sea seems to flash with
light. To-morrow the glass falls; on the
horizon appears an ominous cloud; the air
becomes murky, oppressive; there is the
distant sound of a muttering roll, faint at
first but growing in volume as it rumbles
nearer; the air quivers; little ripples come
and go upon the surface of the waters, and
then The voice of the cyclone is the
shriek of a million devils loosed from Hell;
the fury of its blast lashes the sea into
seething, boiling maelstroms; death and
destruction stalk in its wake.
That is the Great Barrier Reef—smiling,
pitiless, enticing, unrelenting: a Paradise, a
Gehenna, and withal the most magnificent
seaway in the wide world!
It was night—a night of a full moon;
the wonderful, theatrical moon of the
tropics. Its pale light spread silver enchant-
ment upon the waters, like a glimmering,
ever-changing tangled mesh of rare and
exquisite lace. The tall masts, the life-
boats, the deck-houses stood out like the
works of a master silversmith; little waves
lisped overside, and the breath of the south-
east trade wind was as the fragrance of
w r ine. The deck was gay with bunting,
through which tiny colored lights twinkled
and glowed. Here and there were little
tables at which gaily-dressed women and
their cavaliers laughed and chattered, and
from below came the rattle of crockery,
the tinkle of glassware, and the cheerful
popping of corks.
Professor Hicks and Jenkins stood at the
head of the companion surveying the scene
proudly.
“To-night, my boy,” said the Professor,
rubbing his hands together with great satis-
faction, “many a transient love-affair will
blossom forth into something of deep signi-
ficance. Many a high beating heart will
expand like a flower. Many a” .
“Rats!” Jenkins, the young man who
shared Blake’s cabin, interrupted rudely.
The Professor looked pained. “Really,
my dear fellow! I wish you”
“Too many uniforms,” Jenkins averred
dispassionately. “Too many white jackets,
and nice shiny brass buttons, and gold-
laced shoulder straps to give me any thrill.
Ruins the whole show, I think. There’ll be
dirty work on the boat-deck to-night if that
philandering sheik of a third mate doesn’t
hop it.”
But Professor Hicks had forgotten the
pessimistic Jenkins. He was bowing politely
to Lesley Rowan, while Blake, a filmy wrap
over his arm, was hovering in the back-
ground. Lesley was gowned in a fantasy
of mauve and silver. Her lips were slightly
parted, her eyes danced vivaciously, and
her tiny, slippered feet tapped an accom-
paniment to the music of the gramophone.
“You were right, Professor!” she ex-
claimed breathlessly. “Quite right!” Her
quick, eager eyes took in the colorful scene,
and the sheer beauty of it, the ethereal
splendor, the magic of the tropic night,
seemed to hold her enthralled. “It’s simply
wonderful!”
Laughing couples deserted the tables and
descended upon the space reserved for
Stephen Blake.
dancing. Lesley felt Blake’s hand upon
her arm. She looked up eagerly, and then
they were gliding across the crowded deck.
The music soothed and, at the same time,
exhilarated her; her whole being was suf-
fused with a sense of sheer delight, and
as Blake guided her with practised ease,
she leaned her slight weight against hirp,
yielding herself utterly to the sensuous
rhythm of the dance. She flashed a smile
at Professor Hicks as he blundered by in
the arms of a heavyweight blonde; at young
Jenkins, whose air of gloom had miracu-
lously evaporated; at the natty young third
mate, who had not for long gone unconsoled,
and at all the other joyous spirits whose
very existence seemed to minister ,to her
delight.
Then the music stopped and the spell
was broken. For a second they stood con-
fronting each other, flushed, wonderfully
intoxicated, scarce conscious of their sur-
roundings.
“It was—it was divine!” whispered Lesley
in a small, breathless voice.
“May I have the next—and the next —
and the next?” Blake demanded thickly.
His voice seemed to restore her powers of
conscious perception, and a little, rippling
laugh escaped her.
“Good gracious, Mr. Blake! she ex-
claimed reproachfully. “1 have already
promised”
“I know.” Blake’s voice was unsteady.
“Come!”
He took her arm with a suggestion of
authoritative insistence, and led her, un-
mindful of the curious eyes that watched
them, to their deck-chairs near the after-
rail. He settled her in her chair, and
draped the wrap about her shoulders with
hands that shook. He would speak now,
he told himself fiercely—speak decisively,
bluntly. In this setting of snowy decks
overlooking a placid sea bathed in the
amazing radiance of the tropic moon, the
words that for days had been trembling
on his lips would come easily, simply, with-
out conscious effort. The enchanted path
that would lead him to the full glory of a
full, rich life lay under his feet. And on
that journey this slim, misty-eyed girl would
be his companion. Of this he was infallibly
certain.
“Miss Rowan—Lesley,” he began in a
voice which, even to himself, sounded curi-
ously unlike his own. “I”
“Excuse me, R.M.!” Young Jenkins
stood before them, smiling, debonair, com-
pletely at ease. “This is our dance, Miss
Rowan, I think.”
A gust of furious anger shook Blake, but
his sense of humor—of the ridiculous, rather
—came to his rescue, and he laughed,
although a little shakily. The girl looked
uncertainly from one to the other, and made
to rise. Jenkins placed a restraining hand
upon her shoulder. He had caught a fleet-
ing glance from Blake and had read in-
stantaneously its unspoken message.
“I’m tremendously sorry for butting in,
R.M.,” he said. “Assure you, old chap, I
had no idea—oh, dash it!” He glanced at
his watch. “Come back later on, if I may.
0.K.?”
“Quite,” Blake answered drily. Lesley
nodded her head, smiling. But the en-
chantment had been rudely broken. The
magic moment had fled.
Lesley leaned back in her chair.
“I feel rather a beast,” she said. “Do you
think Mr. Jenkins minded very much?”
“Not a bit,” Blake said glumly. “All the
same”
“Tell me, Mr. Blake,” broke in Lesley
suddenly. “I’ve often meant to ask you—
why do these men call you R.M.? At first
I thought it held some uncomplimentary
significance—-‘remittance man,’ or something
like that, you know. Do tell me.”
Blake laughed. “Gladly!” he replied. “It
is merely an old-time custom in the Papuan
service—dying out of late years. You see,
officially I’m the resident magistrate of an
administrative division, a sort of district
commissioner, you know. I am in charge
of what is known as the Akupaka Division.
It is”
“Why, how strange!” There was a note
of breathless excitement in the girl’s voice.
“How perfectly thrilling! Then you’ll know
—you must know my fiance.”
Blake gave a start.
“Harry Merton, the planter in Akupaka
Bay,” she continued. “You must know him,
surely.”
Blake felt his heart thudding against his
ribs, felt a sensation that was almost physi-
cal sickness. So this was the end of his hopes,
his dreams, the castles he had been gaily
building in the air. She was engaged to
marry—who? Good God! Merton! Harry
Merton, the planter!
But the girl, serenely unaware of the
shattering effect of her announcement, was
rippling on gaily.
“We shall be neighbors, Mr. Blake; near
neighbors, I hope. I can’t remember Hal
having mentioned your name, but of course
you must know him quite well. You do,
Mr. Blake, don’t you?”
Blake’s face was set. Incredulity, amaze-
ment, and another emotion he could not


m
4
%
A
f*
s*
kj&
voV 0
<#■
4>
<V
Telegraphic, Cable and Wireless Address
“Austraotel, Sydney
Delightful phases of the art
of living—unexpected comforts
and surprising features —atmo-
sphere and resources that are
rightfully world-famous. . . .
A magnificently - illustrated
booklet tells of the manifold
attractions that await you at
“The Australia” write for
your copy if you are coming to
Sydney.
name fought together in his voice as he
replied. , , TT
'••Yes, Miss Rowan. I know Harry Mer-
ton—well.” , , , -
A choking sense of hopelessness, of
helplessness clutched at his thioat. Her
superb confidence, her innocent joyousness
left him in utter desolation. He wanted to
so away, to hide somewhere apart where he
could reason it all out, clearly and dis-
passionately, but the shock of disaster con-
fused his mind, numbed his faculties. She
was going to marry
"My young brother Ronald wdl join me
later 'in' the year,” Lesley ran on happily.
“He is employed in a Sydney bank, but I
wish him to be near me. We are orphans,
and great pals. Hal can use him on Lau-
bogi Plantation.”
Blake strove to mask his feelings, to in-
fuse into his manner something of the
warmth the occasion demanded.
“I hope you’ll—you’ll be very, very
happy,” he said, stiff-lipped.
Happy! He identified now the emotion
that had defied analysis when she had so
calmly made her devastating announcement.
It was furious indignation, horror, disgust.
Happy! It would be a mockery, this
marriage, a shameful, ghastly,_ damnable
mockery; it would be sacrilege; it would be
the desecration of a shrine.
A sense of desolating loss possessed him.
What an innocent, unobservant fool he was!
He, to whom every tattoo mark, every
cicatrice on a nigger’s hide told a story,
had not recognised the flashing ring on the
second finger of her left hand for what it
"Give hirm a bath, Sergeant....With soup, Sergeant.'"
was. He was ready at that moment to
prostrate himself before her, to submerge
every thing in his hopeless love for her.
But she was going to marry Merton,
“Flash Harry” Merton!
CHAPTER IV.
The A.R.M. Intervenes.
The south-east trade wind blew softly,
stirring the fronds of the palms so that they
rustled soothingly together, and raising little
ripples on the sapphire surface of Akupaka
Bay. Away to seaward showed a line of
breakers fringed with snowy foam, and
merged with the gentle lap-lap of wavelets
on the beach was a muttering undertone of
surf pounding on the barrier reef. Be-
tween beach and reef were clusters of tiny
palm-crested islands that seemed to hang
miraculously between sea and sky. From
the Government station the coast-line
stretched for miles in a gracious, sweeping
curve that ended abruptly in a bold pro-
montory rising sheer from the sea stark,
grim, forbidding; Cape Kabasi—the Place
of Departure—whence, according to the
Akupaka people, the spirits of the dead
commence the dread journey from the
world of living men to the spirit world.
Between Cape Kabasi and the Govern-
ment station were the populous, thriving
villages of the Akupaka tribes —Akupaka,
Oviapaka, Pakapaka and the rest; the palin-
thatched, dun-colored houses and stores
of solitary traders, and here and there
symmetrical areas of wind-tossed palms
that spoke of the enterprise of white
planters. . .
Behind the narrow strip of fruitful
coastal country were immense mosquito-in-
fested sago-swamps, and beyond the swamps
stretched the hills—heavily-timbered lulls
that rose step by step to culminate at last,
in the mist-hidden summits of the mighty
Owen Stanley Range, a week’s journey
distant.
To those who had eyes to see, Akupaka
Bay was a fascinating study of clashing con-
trasts in a land of contrasts. At any one
of the half-dozen villages witheied old men
might be seen laboriously chipping out
canoes with razor-edged stone adzes, while
their sons drove bucking tractors on neigh-
boring plantations; stalwart young bucks,
with many a fearful glance in the direction
of the Government station, flaunted the
plumes of the warrior who has slain his
enemy; patient-eyed South Sea mission
teachers taught naked children to recite the
multiplication table; and, by night, mystic
rites and ceremonies were conducted m the
long-houses.
And always to the north loomed the sini-
ster shadow of Cape Kabasi; and always to
the south the blue ensign of the territory
of Papua saluted the rising sun—on the one
hand the symbol of peace, order and good
government; on the other the visible and
recognised threshold of the spirit world, the
unseen world that dominates every thought
and action of the native Papuan, that forms
the undercurrent of his life. .
Jimmy Glover, Assistant Resident Magis-
trate, temporarily in charge, sat in the tiny
court-room at Akupaka dispensing justice
and profanity with equal fluency. Glover
was a short, spare young man in the early
thirties, with thin, straggling hair and a
pair of wistful, dog-like brown eyes. Stran-
gers were inclined to regard him as an
amiable, rather futile, little man, but the
coastal people and the police and the tur-
bulent hill tribes knew better. They had
no illusions concerning Jimmy Glover,
A.R.M. . „ , ,
He had had a full morning. He had com-
mitted half a dozen mountain raiders to
stand their trial before the Central Court;
he had pronounced judgment on a compli-
cated civil case involving the disputed
ownership of certain cocoanuts, lands and
pigs; he had heard with patience the tear-
ful evidence of a woebegone village constable
concerning the marital unfaithfulness of one
of his many wives; and now he was exam-
ining an exceedingly dirty villager chaiged
with the theft of a dog. By the side of
the prisoner was a slim-built, intelligent-
looking youth wearing the red-and-yellow-
braided uniform of a court, interpreter, and
at the door, standing rigidly at attention,
grim-faced, impassive, was a fierce-eyed,
hook-nosed, grizzled old warrior in the neat
blue serge, red-braided sulu and jumper of
a sergeant of armed constabulary.
The prisoner shuffled forward, protesting
A magnificent zephyr-winged butterfly,
radiant with color, flitted through an open
window and hovered gracefully about the
smellful prisoner’s head. A disarming grin
spread, over the countenance. He
turned confidentially to Glover.
“My word, taubada!” he beamed. This
fella t’ink me all-same flower!”
Glover choked. “Case dismissed!” he
announced firmly. “The prisoner is dis-
charged, Sergeant. Call Gaduweli.”
“’Shun!” barked Sergeant Babaka. His
face expressed blank astonishment. the
native stiffened. “Lite torn! Kweek
ma’ash!”
“Give him a bath, Sergeant, called out
the A.R.M. “It is an order of the Court.”
“Yessah!”
“With soap, Sergeant.”
“With sopu. Yessah!” And the be-
wildered dog thief was marched under escort
to the bath-house.
Glover turned to the interpreter.
“Inquire if Mr. Merton has arrived,
Siosi,” he said. “And” He broke otl
as he heard the sound of heavy footsteps
crunching the broken coral on the gaiden
path. “No matter, Siosi,” he concluded.
“Mr. Merton is here now.”
He looked up as a white man lounged into
the room. IVlerton was a tall, straight man
carefullv dressed in conventional white
drill. He had keen, dark eyes set closely
together in a face tanned to the color of
leather by . exposure to the sun. His upper
lip was hidden by a black, close-clipped
moustache, and his lower lip drooped a
little, giving the whole face a rather sulky,
resentful expression. Merton was a striking
man, on the whole, and, save for the weak
mouth and the too-close-set eyes, undeni-
ably handsome. , .
“Ah, good morning, Jimmy! he drawleu.
“Hard at it?” . ,
His voice was smooth, caressing, one ol
those silky voices with a suggestion of steel
in them that thrill women and exasperate
men. Siosi dusted a chair obsequiously.
Merton seated himself, and ramming his
helmet firmly on the back of his head, non-
chalantly lighted a cigarette. Glover s eyes
widened. . .
“I say, Merton!” he exclaimed. Ihe
Court is sitting, you know. Have a heart!
His voice became brisk. “Douse that
cigarette and take off your hat.’
Merton obeyed, grinning. “Beg pardon,
y’ Worship!” he chirruped.
Glover nodded to Sergeant Babaka, who
ushered in a small boy wearing a spotless
white loincloth. The youth looked about
him with frightened eyes, and cringed when
he caught sight of Merton.
“This is a summons upon a complaint
laid by your cook-boy Gaduweli of Suau,
Glover opened crisply. “The charge is
common assault. How do you plead, Mi.
Merton?”
Merton fixed the trembling Gaduweli with
a baleful eye. The native’s eyes widened
with fear, and he scraped his bare feet
over the rough floor boards in an agony of
drG9/(l *
“Address the Bench, if you please,”
frowned Glover. “Leave the complainant
alone. How do you plead?”
Merton laughed unpleasantly. “I plead
guilty,” he said.
Glover stared. “As you like,” he com-
mented drily.
Gaduweli, prompted by the watchful in-
terpreter, told his story—a story common
enough in a country where the tempers
of white men easily grow frayed and sullen.
The Magistrate imposed a fine of one pound
with costs of court. Sergeant Babaka took
up his station at the door and, at a signal
from the Magistrate, stalked solemnly to
the verandah rail.
“Court Pettee Sessin now-e close!” he
bellowed.
(Continued on next page.)


Ofl time f
ny
• A -
%
: :ES
BSS
(SR
-sq -
casas
aan
v3cl
I i
SHH
B 9
fm
•m
.
nij
ss
sag
sc^sr
gs
n
i'i
tr (i
Central 2zitwayStn.
SrDNEY' M.S
si
I ..ttftS'j
Nf
EXCLUSIVE
r amous
CYMA
WATCHES
K
iiss^
f ~
THE
LATEST
CREATION
W
“ CYMA" watches can be
relied upon to £et you there
on time. No fear of bein& a
minute fast or a minute slow.
They are ON TIME ALL
THE TIME and, unlike many
other watches, are absolutely
interchangeable, so that in case
of accident, any spare part is
available to your watchmaker,
allowing him to &ive you
prompt service at a minimum
cost.
For style and appearance
"CYMA” watches have no
equal, as each of the equisite
models is designed to meet the
demand of the most fastidious.
'The World's Wonder Watch '
SOLD BY ALL
JEWELLERS
j\
Advertise in e
“ Queenslander’
QUEENSLAND’S BRIGHT NATIONAL WEEKLY
PICTORIAL.
The “Queenslander” covers the whole of Queensland and
Northern Rivers of New South Wales. All Agricultural,
Farming, Grazing, Fruit and Sugar-growing areas are reached,
as well as Mining and Oilfields and Timber Districts.
HAS A SOLID “RIGHT - INTO - THE - HOME” CIRCULATION.
Published by The Brisbane Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
Courier Buidings, Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Rep.: Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 85007.
Glover filled his pipe. “Light up, Mer-
ton,” he invited, “and we’ll go over to the
residency. Better stay and have lunch
with me.”
“Thanks, Jimmy,” Merton answered. “I
shall be charmed.”
A few minutes later they were stretched
at ease in cane lounges on the front ver-
andah of the residency.
Glover pulled thoughtfully on his pipe.
“I say, Merton,” he said suddenly. “Don’t
you think it’s time you took a pull? The
Lord knows I’m a simple, easy-going, poor
silly ass, but that is no reason why you
should make things so dashed difficult for
me. Four complaints and two fines in six
months is a bit over the odds!”
Merton smiled lazily. “Spare me your
sermons, Jimmy,” he drawled.
“They’re becoming wise to you at Port
Moresby,” went on Glover a trifle warmly.
- “And you’re headed for trouble, my lad.
Moreover, Steve Blake will be back in the
division in a week or so, and he won’t put
up with any of your monkey tricks. Take
a tumble to yourself, Merton, for the love
of Mike, or you’ll come a thud.”
At the mention of Blake’s name Merton’s
eyes narrowed in sudden hostility.
“Blake?” he queried gently. “Is Blake
coming back—here? Is he, by any chance,
aboard the Moratau due at Port Moresby
next week?”
“He is,” Glover answered grimly. “And
glad I shall be to hand over my -responsi-
bilities.”
Merton seemed to be pondering Glover’s
news, and he frowned, eyeing the other
covertly.
“In a way, I’m rather interested in the
movements of your excellent boss, Jimmy,”
he said at last. He paused. “You see,
Jimmy, I’m taking passage to Port Moresbj'
in the Siai to-morrow. I have urgent
private business there. My—er—fiancee
arrives from South in the Moratau.”
Glover sat up with a jerk. “Good God,
man!” he gasped. “What about—what
about Loana?”
The atmosphere had suddenly become
electric. Merton was biting his lips, and
an angry flush mounted to his face.
“May I suggest that you mind your own
infernal business?” he snapped.
“This is my business, my friend,” Glover
retorted doggedly. “It’s the business of
every decent white man in the division.
I’m asking you again, Merton—what about
Loana?”
Merton averted his head, laughing a little
unnaturally.
“Your outlook is hopelessly narrow,
Jimmy,” he replied with n shrug. “But,
really, I don’t mind satisfying your curi-
osity. I sent Loana back to Akupaka weeks
ago. Gave her a tenner and a canoe load
of ‘trade,’ so she is perfectly happy. You
know what these native women are, Jimmy.”
“There is a kiddy, isn’t there? Your
son, Merton?” Glover’s voice was icy.
“Where is he? In the village, too?”
“The youngster is in good hands, I assure
you, my good policeman. He is at school
at, the Yule Island mission, so you may
remove his name from your register—if you
keep one.”
He stood up. “Afraid I must deprive
myself of the pleasure of lunching with you,
Glover,” he said. “Your manner is in-
sulting.”
Glover leaned forward, and his brown
eyes smouldered in a face from which all
the wistful good humor had fled.
“One moment,” he snapped. “Have you
told this Sydney girl about—Loana?”
“Really, Glover,” Merton drawled, “you
are priceless! Of course I haven’t. Think
I’m mad?” He examined his finger nails
with studied unconcern. “By the way,
Glover,” he said, and in his voice there was
a distinct though restrained inflection of
misgiving, “going back to your boss. D’you
think Blake will”
Jimmy Glover laughed scornfully. “Don’t
worry, Merton. Steve Blake is a sportsman
and a gentleman. He w-on’t put your pot
on, if that is what you mean.”
Merton turned on his heel. “You’re a
delightfully simple soul, Glover!” he
sneered.
Glover glowered at him. “You ? re playing
a dirty game, Merton,” he said. “You
ought to be damned well ashamed of your-
self. You make a man feel ashamed that
he’s white.”
Merton drew back, his face livid. Glover
rose, and for a moment they stood eye to
eye, confronting each other. It was Mer-
ton who turned away first.
Jimmy Glover watched him walk
rapidly to the landing; saw him pick his
way carefully along the rickety jetty and
clamber aboard a launch. He heard the
staccato explosions of the engine; the pop-
pop of the exhaust growing fainter and
fainter as the launch gathered speed, and
he kept his eyes on the little craft until it
was a speck in the distance, for Laubogi
Plantation, Merton’s place, lay a good
twenty miles north towards Cape Kabasi.
Then he sat down to lunch.
At first the totally unexpected nature of
Merton’s announcement, taking Glover
completely by surprise, had aroused merely
his combative instincts on behalf of the
girl - Loana. Now he realised that this
feeling had turned to one of deep and
tender pity—pity for the unknown girl
of his own race who day by day was draw-
ing nearer to Laubogi and its Scoundrelly
owner. Glover could easily understand an
•unsophisticated Australian girl being de-
ceived by Merton’s superficial qualities of
mind and person. Merton was good-look-
ing, well-dressed, polished, plausible, the
kind of dashing, tempestuous wooer who
would turn any girl’s head, sweep any girl
off her feet.
Jimmy Glover was a good-natured, toler-
ant soul; the last man to pass judgment on
his fellows, the first to make allowances.
He could understand and could sympathise
with the beachcomber, all the sorrowful
brethren of the beaches to whom the white
man’s burden is a burden indeed. Their
standards were not his, and that was all.
As for the men of quite another stamp,
those who, cutting themselves adrift from
their own kind, legally espouse a native
woman, and father a brood of half-castes,
Glover had only respect touched with pity.
In Glover’s eyes, however, Harry Merton
was quite definitely in a class by himself.
Glover had heard the story of Merton and
his native wife Loana many times. It was
recorded in the archives of the Government
station; it accounted for Stephen Blake’s
openly-expressed contempt for the man; for
old Tod Lorimer’s undisguised hostility;
lor the dislike and distrust with which
Merton was regarded by white men and
natives alike. Loana was a comely, mission-
trained girl from Akupaka village. Merton’s
marriage native-fashion to her was really a
case of abduction, but by hard lying, brib-
ing the girl’s father and intimidating the
native witnesses, Merton had escaped scot-
free, and ever since had snapped his lingers
at Blake and his assistant.
“The swine!” he muttered. “He ought
to be horsewhipped!”
A deferential cough cut in on the troubled
turmoil of his thoughts. He looked up to
recognise Sergeant Babaka.
“The girl Loana has retimned to the
house of her father, taubada,” the sergeant
said in Motuan.
Glover was suddenly alert. “It is good,
Sergeant,” he returned.
The sergeant, hesitated. He wiggled his
bare toes, fumbled with his bayonet, and
exhibited every symptom of acute embar-
rassment.
“Men say, taubada,” he went on diffi-
dently, “that in the space of ten sleeps a
white sinabada [mistress] comes to Lau-
bogi.”
“Men speak truly.. Sergeant.” Glover
paused. He was doing some hard think-
ing. “It is an order of the Gavamani
[Government] that the girl Loana goes no
more to Laubogi. Savee? It is an order
also, to be conveyed discreetly to the people
of all the villages, that the name of the girl
Loana shall not be mentioned within hear-
ing of the new sinabada. Is it understood,
Sergeant?”
A flicker of intuitive comprehension came
into the sergeant’s eyes.
“It. is understood, taubada,” he replied.
“Vaedaeni! [it is finished],” said Glover.
“Mr. Bileki [Blake] returns to Akupaka
with the Siai. See to it that the police
are prepared for the mountain patrols.”
CHAPTER V.
The Knight Errant.
The Morat.au crossed the Coral Sea during
one of its periods of calm. So tranquil
indeed was the bosom of the ocean that,
the ship seemed to be ploughing a furrow
through a plain of solid cobalt. The ship’s
wake, spread like a lacy fan, sparkled astern
as if set with millions of diamonds, and the
tiny bow-waves reflected all the colors of
the spectrum. Overhead, the tropic sun,
like a ball of burnished gold, poured down
a flood of heat, pleasantly lulling the senses
of the passengers lounging under the awn-
ings.
An understanding boatswain had rigged
a canvas screen over Lesley Rowan’s favor-
ite corner near the after rail, and she sat
there alone, her forehead wrinkled in a
thoughtful frown, an unopened book in her
lap.
Somewhere beyond the rim of the horizon
lay New Guinea and her heart’s desire. On
this, the brink of her new life, tranquillity
of mind and a sw r eet content should have
been her portion; but somehow—ever since'
the night of the dance, in fact—she had been
unable to recover the thrill, the exhilaration
■which had accompanied her through the
voyage. Perhaps she had been a little
foolish, a little indiscreet. Perhaps she had
allowed the unrestrained gaiety of ship-
board life, the novelty of it, to go to her
head just a little.
It was not, she told herself firmly, that
she had any sentimental regard for Stephen
Blake. She liked him. liked his open grey
eyes, the set of his shoulders, and his shy,
engaging smile. Who could help liking
him? And who could help enjoying his
unfailing courtesy and his thoughtful atten-
tions? But Hal Merton was her man, her
lover—dear, generous Hal, so brilliant, so
superbly sure of himself, so exuberantly
alive and withal so tender! He it was
who had touched her heart, fired her imagin-
ation. stirred her soul. Not for a minute,
not for the fraction of a second, had she
swerved from her loyalty to Hal; never-
theless, a little doubt, a little misgiving
remained to harass her. Somehow, Stephen
—strange how she had come to think of
him as Stephen—somehow, Stephen seemed
no longer to wait eagerly for her appear-
ance on deck. Even during meals he had
become curiously reticent, curiously re-
served. He seemed .to avoid rather than
seek her society. Men were strange crea-
tures, she decided, out of the depths of her
wisdom —strange, and more than a little un-
reasonable.
(To be continued next week.)


, 3 I
■
WM
i§§Pl
44 J have been using Rexona Soap fct
some time and am really more than de-
lighted with the wonderful results.”
—Nola Neville
m
w
" Since baby’s birth I have used nothing but
Rexona Soap and therefore must credit baby’s hair
and skin to Rexona Soap."
—Mrs. R. H. Glenn, mother of Robert Glenn
who won Second Prize in the South Australian
Baby Competition.
The choice of all who
value Health and Beauty
“ Baby's lovely
smooth skin and
beautiful hair are
advertisement
enough for your
splendid soap."
—Mrs. H. Burnis-
ton whose baby,
June, won First
Prize in the South
Australian Baby
Competition.
Only a soap that can, with certainty,
be accepted as absolutely pure should
be used on the sensitive skin of the
face, for many soaps contain too
much alkali and do more harm than
actual neglect, for they dry the
natural oil and leave the skin coarse
and rough.
The use of such a soap is especially
dangerous to young children, for as
any doctor will tell you, they chafe
the delicate skin of a baby, making
him fretful and cross. In this way it
robs him of the natural sleep which
is so essential to development.
The mothers of the two babies
shown here are unstinted in their
praise of Rexona Soap. Their child-
ren were adjudged the bonniest bab-
ies in South Australia recently, and
they give Rexona Soap the most
credit.
Whatever you do select a soap free
from all impurities, that will at least
cleanse the skin thoroughly and
gently. But better still, use Rexona
Soap. Rexona Soap does more than
merely cleanse, for a little Rexona is
added to every tablet to nourish and
protect. The carefully selected es-
sences and medicants which are in
Rexona go deep down into every
tiny pore, removing all impurities
that may endanger skin-health and
leaving just enough protection to
guard against the possible harm of
the drying sun and wind.
Price 1 A per tablet
REXONA. SOAP
RS2OG


LEARN TO DRAW
ANYONE can learn to draw suc-
cessfully, provided an aptitude
for study is shown and an earnest
endeavor is exerted to master the
fundamental principles of drawing.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF
DRAWING
teaches you these principles, in easy,
concise and interesting lessons. Every
student’s work is corrected and criti-
cised by Mr. Harry J. Weston per-
sonal^.
The great advantage of Mr. Weston’s
method of teaching drawing by post
is that pupils are taught to DRAW—
not to copy.
Former pupils of the Weston School
are now well-known Cartoonists on
Australian newspapers, and many
n
- .
Weston pupils make money by sketching long before they complete the course.
Big salaries await successful students in the field of art I Why not. learn all
about this profitable hobby?
Apart from commercial considerations, you can provide endless pleasure and
amusement for your friends by bright, snappy sketches.
Send three stamps to cover postage, and we will forward you Mr. Weston’s
booklet, entitled “THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN,” which tells all about the
course and gives examples of lessons and specimens of students’ work.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL, SCHOOL OF DRAWING
82 UNION HOUSE, 247 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
THE ROYAL AGRICULTURAL
SOCIETY OF VICTORIA.
Grand Annual Exhibition.
NINE DAYS.
THURSDAY, 19th, to SATURDAY, 28th
SEPTEMBER, 1929.
Comprehensive display of Stock,
Agricultural Produce and Industrial
Exhibits.
60 .Acres of Intense Interest.
Liberal programme of prizes amounting
to over £BOOO (including champion
prizes of Australia).
Competitive Entries (except Ring Events) Close
SATURDAY, AT NOON, AUGUST 17.
Entries for Arena Events close SATURDAY, AT
NOON, AUGUST 31.
Member’s Subscription, Covering Badge and Two
Ladies’ Tickets and General Privileges, £l/10/-
per annum.
Life Member’s Subscription, £l5/15/-
Extra Ladies’ Tickets, 10/6 each.
Prize Schedules, Entry Forms, etc., on application.
Railway fares from Country Stations greatly reduced.
See your local Stationmaster.
HENRY SCHWIEGER,
Secretary.
Note Address: Temple Court, 9th Floor, 422 Collins
Street, Melbourne, C.l
Publication.
“ANGORA RABBITS FOR PROFIT—
N.Z., AUSTRALIA.”—New issue
shortly, 4/3.—A. SAINSBURY, ex-editor
Smallholder, Box 1489, Auckland, N.Z.
h usin g a %
SAFETY RAZOR BLADE
Made of a special steel with extra keen edges
that last and give more shaves per blade.
For all Gillette and Auto-Strop holders.
Agent for Australia: H. E. UTTLEY,
Margaret House, 282 George Street, Sydney.
Manufactured by Kirby, Beard & Co., Ltd.,
Needle and Pin Manufacturers,
Ravenhurst Works,
Birmingham,
England.
o
%
&
o*
Use a BEARD to shave a hearc/
CAPTAIN CRAB
SPECIALLY SELECTED
PLEASES HOSTESS AND VISITORS
ALIKE
FREE RECIPEBOOK AT ALL GROCERS
“IXL” Carbide
When forwarding your next order for Carbide
insist on being supplied with
“IXL” Brand.
It is manufactured in Australia
and is guaranteed by the manufacturers to be
at least equal to the British Acetylene
Association standard quality.
When using “IXL” Brand you are helping an
all-Australian industry to flourish.
If unable to obtain from your supplier
write direct to the undersigned:
H. Jones & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
HOBART, TASMANIA, Sole Distributing Agents
For
The Australian Commonwealth Carbide Co., Ltd.,
Electrona, Tasmania.
DISTRIBUTORS FOR N.S.W.:
ALLEN-LIVERSIDGE, LTD., Hutchison Street, Annandale.
BRANDTS, LTD., 236 Pitt Street, Sydney.
GARDNER-WAERN & CO. PTY., LTD., 225 Clarence Street, Sydney.
NOYES BROS, LTD., Clarence Street, Sydney.
Save on PETROL!
32
3C
\
JE
pi
> I
'
Jt
JC
)
1
uc
JC
4'
$
'..Vs <v<s i'-rie vfrta
. :v;t<
|sfess
tetf
$
k *3aKhi
Have you ever considered the many advantages of buying petrol in
bulk? Those who have generally regard the storage question as the
stumbling block. We have made an outfit to solve this very problem.
The Macson Petrol Storage Outfit is proving very popular, especially
in country districts.
It comprises a strong, electrically-welded steel container, to which a
Semi-rotary Pump, especially adapted for pumping petrol, is connected
by strong, suitable piping. A 1 Oft. length of petrol hose with brass
nozzle is supplied, also a filler pipe. An air vent is fitted to the
container.
The Macson ’ Outfit can be placed wherever convenient, but probably
the best place is underground, outside the garage. Here the petrol is
safer from fire than it is when in tins. Another advantage is the saving
of space in the garage.
Capacity
Price
100 gals.
£i 5
200 gals.
£l7/10/-
300 g
£2O
With this Outfit you are enabled to buy petrol in bulk and
SO EFFECT A CONSIDERABLE SAVING PER GALLON.
lersons!
Proprietary limited
“DEPENDABLE GOODS SINCE 1860.’*
51-65 Bathurst Street, Sydney. 582-592 Collins Street, Melbourne.
116-130 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Our Own Manufactwe
Carrying Our Guarant&e
Two really reliable Windmills
The Billabong
Expert engineers put the Billabong FIRST as an Engineering Achievement.
It is double-geared, and the gears run in an Oil Bath. The Encased-gear
Billabong, with its perfect lubrication, will give many extra years of Service.
A user writes:—
"Your Mill is a credit to our Australian Engineering Industry.”
Ask for Windmill Catalogue.
The Busy B
The BUSY B” is a sft. Wheel Windmill manufactured by us to meet the
demand for a small mill to pump water for Household needs and uses about
the Homestead.
The Workmanship and Materials are quite up to the Billabong Standard —
Design is simple and compact with few working parts.
This mill may be fixed to wood posts with good results, at a low price.
Q,
aiMiiimmiinii
1 JOHN
Ilf f IQ
8. SON I
nllllllllliiiiiiiiHi;
iiiilltiiiiiliiitin
391-403 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
324-330 Pitt Street,
Sydney.


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
(I!
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
Accommodation
160.
Central,
Comfortable,
Convenient,
5 Mts. G.P.O.
Excellent
Cuisine,
Billiards,
Dancing.
ORIENTAL HOTEL
(No License)
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
TARIFF:
Weekly,
£3/3/- to
£4/4/-
Daily,
11/6 to 12/6.
Room & B’fast,
8/6 to 9/6
FL2034
F 3575
BATTERY
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Monday to Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/-
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’Hfite Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 12/6; or
ft la carte, minimum, 12/6
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 6, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 6.30, 5/-
The Ambassadors New Delightful
Dance Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M4lBl.
"Without Prayers to Bed."
MARGARET FARE
AND HILARY LOFTING FIND THE'LOO 11A B
TRIUMPHS AH WELL Atf TRAGEDIES.
MICK was shaving Denis Kavanagh, and
Marty waited at the counter. Pre-
sently Mick came through into the
shop just as old Honoria Gale entered. She
put a note on the counter and smiled dis-
tantly at Marty and Mick.
“On Glad Rag for to-morrow, please,
Mick,” she said, her rich voice making its
echoes in every corner of the saloon and
shop. “I’m sorry I can't make a real bet,
but the ten shillings is all I can afford.”
“Glad Rag wasn’t too clever at Maitland
last month, you know,” said Mick dubiously.
“Bit of an outsider, if you ask me.”
The set of her head indicated unmistak-
ably that she hadn’t asked his opinion. “Pos-
sibly. But I have a presentiment that she
will be a winner to-morrow. At a good
price.”
"The price'll be all right, Miss Gale, if
the” ——
“And ye had a presentiment, did ye, Miss
Gale?” Kavanagh’s dark, narrow face, free
of its hot towel, looked interestedly at her
from the chair. “Be the Saints, I don’t
know one thing for to-morrow. Maybe if I
put a small bet on Glad Rag^— Maybe ye
had a dream, Miss Gale?”
Her heroic eyes lit up. “You can’t call
them dreams, Mr. Kavanagh, though perhaps
In part they are dreams”
Another figure came swiftly into the shop
nod up to the counter—a small man whose
face was lean and lined and very tired de-
spite his burning eyes. He, too, was desper-
ately shabby, and he, too, had an air. “A
box of matches, please,” he said very gently
to Mick.
The heroic light vanished from Miss Gale’s
eyes when this figure entered. She receded
in disapproval and half-contempt.
“There you are, Doctor.” Mick pushed
the box over the counter and took the penny.
It became evident that Miss Gale was
about to leave. The shabby old woman
somehow gathered the reins into her hands
so that each man subconsciously sprang to
attention. She did this without moving or
looking at any face ; but presently Kavanagh
was half-rising in the chair, Mick straight-
ened up and bowed behind the counter and
Marty smiled and took one pace to the side
of the open door. Even the burnt-up shell
of the little man called the doctor seemed
to express ft regret. Through this queer lot
old Honoria Gale made her exit, with smiles
for everyone and the faintest, coldest move-
ment of her magnificent head for the doctor,
He returned the bow with humility and
gratification. . .
Miss Gale gone, he smiled round at the
company and turned on his heel and followed
her.
“Wonderful old pal'ty, Miss Gale,” Mick
said, returning to Kavanagh and the chair.
“She has a way wid her, Mick.”
"A way with her?” Mick peered indig-
nantly down into Kavanagh’s face. “But I
s’pope she’d be before your time, Denis.
You've only seen her kicking about the ’Loo
in her rags, givin’ music-lessons at a bob
a time. I’ve seen ’er as Ophelia an’ Portia
an' Desdemona—ah, and the Governor in his
box." Mick paused, savoring these memories.
"It was a rough spin she got, bein’ in the
big train accident—that’d be before your
time, too. Months in hospital she was. And
not rightly herself, they say, for a couple of
years; couldn’t hardly walk or talk straight.”
Mick flicked the towel deftly round Kav-
anagh’s powdered face and pulled the chair
upright.
“An actress, was she then? And it's a
fine, great head and eyes she has now.”
Marty laughed. "She’s Honoria Gale,
Denis, and knew the inside of Government
House as well as I know me shop.”
"And what’s she doin’ in the 'Loo among
the poor Irish and the Australians that can’t
do any better for themselves?”
A silent pause fell on these Australians.
Mick broke it. “What with the shock and
pain and one thing and another, she did a
bit o’ boozing and —well, she landed in the
'Loo,”
‘‘She hasn’t the look of a drinker.”
“Oh. she chucked it years ago—turned it
down for good. Reg’lar wowser she is.
That’s what makes her so down on the doc-
tor. Did you see the way she walked over
‘im just now?”
Kavanagh put on his hat. “And took to
racin’ instead?”
This pause was broken by Marty. “In a
manner of speaking, it isn't really racing.
One good win and she’ll be off out into the
country, and the ’Loo won't see her any
more.” Marty skilfully filled his pipe with
his one hand. “You can't call that dinkum
racing, Denis,” lie added, smiling at Kav-
anagh. “That's what they call a motive, if
you understand me. The ’Loo’s where she
found herself with nothing left, and it’s where
she’s fighting to get something back. If
you understand me.”
To old Honoria Gale it was more than
a motive. Government House aud a sea of
exultant faces, a thunder of beating bands
and the rich certainty that Juliet had to-
night lit fires in the human imagination—all
that being past and done, together with the
cruel pain and the years of dismay and down-
fall, there remained a room in the ’Loo as a
bitter prison. Life, narrowing her gifts
down, narrowed also all desires and dreams.
The children came, each with a shilling for
the jingling music-lesson —a bad music-lesson
that any vamping suburban pianist could
have bettered. When the ’Loo parents had
no shilling, no children came. And no food
and perhaps no rent. And, above all, no
half-crown or five shillings for Miek to put
on some horse that might win and accom-
plish the one desire.
Old Honoria could sec that one desire
every hour. A small house on the edge of
the quiet bush, clean and lonely and her
own. No rent, no bickering noises of streets
and stupid children and pianos. No awful
weight of failure and downfall among the
unfit. Nothing but peace and memory. So
food and clothing, all the luxuries and neces-
sities were stripped to the barest that a
few shilling's might go week after week to
Mick.
A short run of luck, even two good wins
in succession, and it was done; the squalor,
the defeat, would vanish ! That this, must in
the end be achieved kept old Houoria’s head
high. To see her walk down the street was
to feel once more your faith iu life coming
back with a rush. The way she held her
head was a lesson in keeping your chin up.
The ’Loo called Raymond Pulteney “doc-
tor,” which happened to be a true title; but
a less-tolerant community would not have
called him this, nor by any of the titles
achieved by scholarship. His world-wide
fame was old now, and perhaps forgotten,
except by the world’s universities; a little
of its causes remained still in the doctor’s
vivid, fiery eyes and the great sweep of liis
forehead, but not in his blotched skin, with
its air of hopeless fatigue, nor in his trem-
bling hands.
The steadiness of his gait obviously a
matter of great moment, he entered Marty’s
shop.
“Well, Marty,” he said in his gentle voice
that always seemed so wise and caressing,
“how is the Diary of Samuel Pepys, F.R.S.,
Secretary to the Admiralty, etcetera? I
mean, how is it to your mind?”
“It seems wonderful to me, Doctor. You
seem to see those old times so closely, not
like a history book. Thank you for the loan
of it. He was a good cove, wasn’t he,
Pepys?”
"Yes.” The doctor’s wandering eyes came
back to Marty’s face. “Yes. A very good
cove, as you say. That’s why you see the
old times so clearly. A little ham, I think,
Marty—a quarter of a pound—and some
butter, please.”
Marty went over to the smallgoods cage
and brought the parcel back. “I’ll have
your coffee in this week, Doctor. They pro-
mise it by Thursday.”
But the doctor was not interested. “‘I
do find a great deal more of content in these
few days,’” he was murmuring, “‘that I do
speed well about my business, than in all
the pleasure of a whole week.’ A good cove
I’epys was, as you say. It’s the heart of a
man, his book, Marty; nothing can ever
cheapen it or take any of the life out of it.”
The doctor’s gentle voice, ever so slightly
thickened, gave the impression that he was
half-asleep. But he looked haggard and very
worn.
“You’re not looking too clever, Doctor. I
wonder you don’t leave the ’Loo. It can’t
be too good a place for you with all the
noise and racket.”
“It's as good as any other.place, Marty.”
“No. Not for you, Doctor.” Marty looked
down at the parcel on the counter. “It’s
not what you’ve been used to, for one thing.
And it can’t be any too good for your work,
for another.”
“Work? My work is all done.” The doc-
tor’s mind seemed to stir in its half-sleep.
“What does it matter where a man rots,
Marty?”
"It depends on the man.”
The doctor considered this for a moment.
“At Oxford,” he began, but paused, looking
wearily at Marty, “there was a professor
who, riding for a fall with the conventions,
was cursed with rich and influential rela-
tions —groundlings with little wooden stan-
dards and inhibitions against thought. They
made his life a hell, hoping to persuade the
world that the scandal of their unorthodox
kinsman had never been.”
The doctor's tender voice seemed to be
burning with bitter contempt.
“In the end this professor abruptly found
them and their solemn standards intoler-
able. He called a meeting and renounced
his private income, resigned from his chair
and cut himself from their smugness. Then
he put as much of the earth as he '•mild
between them and him. He does odd-jobs
—teaches at a school, lectures a little, writes
a little for the papers. This pays, for his
room, his drink, his coffee—-with occasional
ham. He is not old, but happily his health
is poor; life, with luck, will not laugh at
him much longer. Reverting to our thesis,
Marty, why should not a man rot in the
’Loo as comfortably as elsewhere? Good-
night, Marty,” he added. His voice, fading
tenderly, joined the other noises of the ’Loo
and was lost in them.
When it was common knowledge in the
’Loo that old Ilonoria Gale had been left
£5O no one rejoiced more vigorously than
the doctor. H'e did this by becoming too
drunk for his own and his neighbors’ safety,
it is true; but no one could deny his sin-
cerity. Least of all old Honoria, who once
more took him hopelessly to task.
“But, lady,” he told her softly, “1 don’t
want to reform. The basic principle of all
cures must be that the patient desires to
be cured. I don’t.”
“Very well, Professor.” She looked at
the dark trees in the Domain. “I’m not sure
now that I wanted to be cured.” Watching
the sombre trees, she spoke as if she were
alone. “There is a horse called Rosalind
running on Saturday,” she said.
The doctor’s ruined face' was grave for
a moment. But “Faith is more than deeds,”
he said, his gaze again on the gallant
carriage of her head. “Your horse must
ultimately win, I think,” he added.
Rosalind, then, carried the burden of Hon-
oria Gale’s desire. This windfall of £5O,
“from an old admirer,” was, by itself, no
more than a pleasant security for the immedi-
ate future. But with Mick and Saturday’s
race-meeting to help, it might be the radiant
end of all defeat and pain.
Mick asked for trouble; he deprecated
forcibly the putting of all the money on
any one horse. But he received for his
pains no more than the trouble he was ask-
ing for, and his orders were to put the £5O
on Rosalind.
Rosalind came in fourth, and all the spirit
went suddenly out of old Honoria Gale.
No £5O with its pleasant security, no end
of misery and squalor, no faith remaining
in life!
Her heroic head drooped in defeat. The
gallant carriage vanished. In rags she
shuffled about the ’Loo, old and beaten, her
purposeless eyes seeing only the pavement.
There was no purpose. In a few weeks she
was one of the ’Loo shadows, not walking
like a wounded queen down the streets, but
shuffling past the doorways in a vague dis-
may and terror.
On an early morning Marty, sweeping a
few specks of dust from the threshold of
the shop, became aware of the approach
of the doctor from Doolan’s pub. The doctor
was very shaky and haggard; his lined face
was grey and bloodless.
“Good morning, Marty,” he whispered.
“Doolan gave me a pick-me-up, but” He
paused, breathing heavily. Conscious of a
touch of panic, Marty stood his shortened
broom against the door-frame. This wasn’t
an ordinary morning-after, even for the
doctor.
“Won’t you come in for a moment, Doctor?
You look all tuckered-out.”
“Thank you. Do you think, Marty,” the
doctor’s labored whisper seemed to fill the
shop, “you could get me a cup of coffee,
black and very strong, pretty quickly? I
don’t feel very hopeful of reaching my room.”
Presently Marty was back with the coffee,
and the. doctor took it in both trembling
hands. Soon the flush of moving blood
showed faintly in his face.
“Thank you, Marty,” he said. “That’s
better —or worse, according to your view of
it. Angina is its name — Angina pectoris,
officially.”
“A crook heart, Doctor?”
“A very crook heart, thank God ! Yet I
hope it will hold its merciful hand a little
longer for me.”
The postman’s shadow darkened the door-
way, and he paused to give Marty his mail.
“Anything for me, Postman?” the doctor
asked, an urgency replacing the soft mockery
of his usual voice.
The postman flicked over the letters in
his hand. “Nothing for you, Doctor,” he
said.
“Nothing for me.” The doctor looked
after the hurrying postman. “How consis-
tent is life, Marty! Here am I sitting plea-
santly on the brink of death and an official
person hurries by saying over his shoulder
that there is nothing for me. Of course
there is nothing. Why should Life change
her formula at the last moment?” He drank
the remaining coffee, holding the cup with
one almost steady hand, “Thank you. You
have probably saved my life.”
He put the cup down and stood a moment
in thought, his burning eyes veiled. “The
wolves are gathering, Marty. I was dis-
missed —not asked to resign—from one of
my odd-jobs on Saturday.”
“I’m sorry, Doctor.”
“Yes. So am I. I arrived to lecture in
a condition of—shall we say artificial self-
aggrandisement? I was not. allowed to lec-
ture. I was paid off.”
“I’m sorry, Doctor,” Marty said again.
The doctor also repeated himself. “Yes.
(Continued on page 57.)
Sudden Storm.
All of a sudden the storm began,
Spoiling the light of the golden day;
And the winds, unleashed, through the
highways ran,
And the thick dust whirled in a
madcap way.
Windows rattled and shutters creaked.
Curtains bellied and doors swung
wide;
And all the zenith was crimson-
streaked
With lethal lightnings that sped and
died,
Blown birds fluttered on feeble wings,
Brown leaves circled, a bird-like
swetrm,
And all was a chaos of panicked things
That woke front quiet to stir and
storm.
Voiced like lions the thunders roared,
Filling and thrilling the air beneath,
And the sluices opened and torrents
poured,
And the drowned earth gasped like
a man for breath.
Rain-sprites danced on the streaming
street,
Waters gurgled in drain and spout,
And round the corners with flying feet
The wild winds raced in a furious
rout.
Ice, knife-edged, through the darkness
swept;
Hail red-lit by the lightning’s play;
And, gorged to the full, the gutters
leapt
With foam and ferment upon their
way.
N.S.W.
Drenched folks dreaming of ache and
pain
Homeward trudged through the tor-
rents wide;
But the urchins danced in the pelting
rain
And launched their boats on the
muddy tide.
Age went by with a curse and scowl,
Youth came tripping with eager
eyes ;
And the thunder died with a farewell
growl,
And the swift light rushed from the
sparkling skies.
Sweet and fragrant and cleansed and
cool,
Roamed the airs through the ways
new-washed;
And every pool was a golden pool,
And every drop like a ruby flashed.
Out from their houses, a questing
swarm,
Staid and merry, came young and
old,
And they looked on the skirts of the
flying storm
And its ragged streamers of rose
and gold.
Doors were opened and curtains raised,
Laughter sounded and eyes grew
bright;
And every pane in the windows blazed'■
Like a square of fire in the western
light.
RODERIC QUINN.


Banking, Public Companies, etc,
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares 1,875,009
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New
. . Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS jj;
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Bkitisu Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Reading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
Loudon, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed — .think of
w
' SCHUTE,
BELL &C ud.
If you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street. Sydney.
&
•m
U
ASTHMA
Catarrh,Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough,
Colds in the Head
Yield at once
to the soothing
fumes ot
ŵ
ASTHMA
2/6 per Tin from all Medicine
Vendors.
POTTJER & CLARKE. LTD..
Artillery Lane. London, Eng.
For outdoors, use
Potter's SMOKING
MIXTURE and
CIGARETTES
Übe Dominion.
New Zealand,’*
National Morning Daily .
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion” is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
AH Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Shipping, etc.
That Trip of Yours!
Full particulars and literature of
either Excursion from the
Union Steam Ship Co.,
247 George St., Sydney.
69 William St., Melbourne, Cl.
JOINING either giant liner—
Aorangi, Makura or Niagara
at Sydney, Australians can
now enjoy three delightful
months at a small excursion cost
on the blue Pacific and in
Honolulu gem city of Hawaii.
Return fares are only £75 and
£55.
The liner also calls at Auckland,
New Zealand, and at Suva.
As a tempting alternative take
one of the fine fleet of the Union
Company, via Wellington, to
Raratonga and Papeete, at a
return excursion cost of only
£55 and £4O.
CANADIAN
AUSTRALASIAN
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
JAVA
(The Land of Eternal Summer).
OLD BUDDHISTIC AND HINDUISTIC
TEMPLES—NATIVE BAZAARS.
EXCELLENT BIG-GAME SHOOTING.
BEAUTIFUL TROPICAL SCENERY.
EXTENSIVE TEA GARDENS.
INTERESTING PEOPLE.
Regular monthly sailings by the favorite
vessels "MARELLA” (7500 tons) and
"MALABAR” (5000 tons).
Pacific Island Excursions
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon
Islands, Lord Howe Island, Norfolk
Island and New Hebrides.
TRIPS OF TWO TO FIVE WEEKS’
DURATION.
Apply to
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LTD.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide.
ẁ
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
fEuripides 15,000 tons, Aug. 6
*Nestor .. . 15,000 ~ Sept. 9
tDemosthenes 11,500 ~ Sept. 28
JCeramic . . 18,500 ~ Oct. 26
: ‘ : §Ulysses . . 15,000 „ Oct. 29
* First class only. fFirst and Third class.
J“Cabin” class only. §Yia Suez.
For full particulars apply to
Dalfcety 8 Co., Ltd • I Joint
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson Ltd. j A ° ents
Splendid Cheap Service
Via Suez Canal
FAST OIL BURNERS
In conjunction with Sailings via South Africa.
Excellent Menu. Late Dinner.
Fares to London from £3B.
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For particulars apply
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Box 513 AA, 5 o’Conn3:l St., Sydney.
’Phone: 86701
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
ẃ
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20,900,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30. 1928, £88,982,586.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
564 Branches and Ageneies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, alid London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Dills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Shipping, etc,
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings,
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
FOR BRISBANE, MAOKAY, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS
(Transhipping for outports).
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/£/•
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CM ALLIS. HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart ParkerL 1
Magnlfloent
Fast Passenger
SteamsM|)3
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARK ER U MITE!)
Coll ins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
HOTEL
MIETROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club anti Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/-per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
If any illustration in The Bulletin take*'
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for tiie original.
PROGRESS
A 65% increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two Independent
firms of Auditors—
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, 133 a Pitt Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.


FEATURES THAT HAVE MADE THE “SWAN” FAMOUS
rJ
j|‘* v
is
j. 1 '
*
m
M
rw
The .
Sealed
Chamber
Concealed within the cap
of your Self-filling “Swan”
Pen is an inner chamber
which receives the nib
and feed when the pen
is not in use.
When the cap is replaced
and screwed tightly , the
pen is securely sealed
against leakage of ink.
\«
a \vj
Self-Filling
“ Swans”
from 17/6
Black or Mottled
Also in artistic
colours from
22/6
(Other “Swans"
from 12/6)
. “Fyne Poynt” Pencils from 7/6
SeT-Filling “Blackbird” Pens from 9 /-
OF STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., Swan House, London, W.I.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Ma /agin■' Agents and Repair Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Ask to see the Ne<w Coloured “Swans<
<Swam
PEN
99
**SWAN” INK —Best for “Swan” Pens and all Pens
m
m
NOW NEATLY CASED at same price!
A strongly-made grained-leather case is now provided with every Plum
Razor, at no increase in cost. With its blade set to perfection—guaran-
teed and kept in order for two years free—the Plum Razor shaves cleanly,
easily, quickly—leaves the most delicate skin smooth and comfortable.
Black Vulcanite Handle .. . . 12/6 each
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 ~
Real Ivory Handle 21/- ~
Satin-lined double case free with pair.
7-day Sets—7 Razors in Case.
Black, 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory, 140/-
Po.it free to any address.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
So am I. It’s the bark of a hungry wolf.”
He looked up and smiled, touching his dis-
graceful hat. “Good morning, Marty.”
Once more, a week later, Marty, sweeping
the step, saw the doctor approaching from
Doolan’s. Again the finger of panic touched
Marty. The doctor’s face was a mere shadow
of lifeless pallor, his bloodless lips moving
silently. Marty got him into the shop, and
soon was holding strong black coffee to those
silent lips, aghast at the thunder of the doc-
tor's labored breathing. Gradually the pallor
receded, and the doctor came back into life,
“Thank vou, Marty,” he whispered,
“There’s the' postman again. Will he fling
me his nothing-for-you over his official
shoulder once more to-day?”
But “One for you, Doctor,” the postman
said, and hurried away.
The doctor looked at the envelope in his
shaking hand. “This is a small thing,
Marty,” lie said still in that heavy, difficult
whisper. “A mere letter—some words from
one citizen to another, the sort of tiling that
even Samuel Pepys thought little enough of,
rare as they were in his day. Yet what may
it not hold in the privacy of its cover! A
man’s honor, even the last rags of his pride,
the poor pride that was his only weapon.”
He slit the envelope. Holding a slip of
blue paper on his knee he read the letter,
Marty’s anxious eyes upon him. He was a
terribly sick man; only half alive he seemed,
sitting in that chair. Yet a bitter scorn was
twistiug liis ashen face as lie read down the
page; his mocking, savage smile came again
and again. “True to type,” he murmured,
“God give me patience, especially with my
intolerable brother.” Reaching the end of
the letter he looked up at Marty and laughed,
“Poor purseproud fool!’
He put the letter and the blue slip into
the envelope, and it into his pocket. Stand-
ing up he walked two paces towards the
door, and was suddenly stilled. Marty was
instantly beside him, taking the vaguely
groping arm. ...
“The ‘’Nunc diniittis,’ I rather fancy. Do
1 look like a bridegroom, Marty?’ Sud-
denly the wisp of mockery was His
eyes opened wide in a shock of pain. “Home
—home!” he gasped.
Marty half-carried him with infinite care
to the dismal room and its piles of tumbled
hooks. On the bed he seemed to rally for
a moment,
“That letter, Marty.” He fumbled at his
pocket, and Marty slipped the envelope out
and handed it to him, but he didn’t take it.
“Open it,” he said.
Ilis narrowed, striving eyes watched Marty
take out the blue slip. “You’ll have to do
this for me—rather lucky, my touch on the
shoulder coming to-day. That’s a bank
draft, made out to Ilonoria Gale. Tell her
to cash it—you see to it, Marty. It’s to
get her that house she wants. And put her
chin up again.” _ .
.A shock of pain seemed to drive a 1
his spirit into his eyes, lhe eyelids fiut-
tered and a grey shadow stole softly about
his chin. But his lips were moving. Marty
put his ear down.
“ ‘And so-lio, being sleepy the ghost of
sound was fading .without to bed.
For which—God forgive me
A Bush T.P.O.
HENRY G. LAMOND’S
SNAPPY STORY OF A QUEENSLAND CATTLE DEAL.
A LICK!” David Parker, manager of
Booralie station, called to liis head
stockman who was passing the office
door. “Come in here a minute. Do you
know a drover named J. Nicholson?”
“And what’s the J. stand for?” Alick
wanted to know. “Jim, Jack or Joe?”
“Slippery,” Parker told him.
“Slippery Nicholson! Do I know Slip-
pery! I know Slippery. What about him?”
“The new general manager’s decided to
send twelve hundred bullocks from here to
Bullpitt Downs. He writes me J. Nichol-
son will be here to take delivery first Sep-
tember. I thought it might be Slippery. I
wanted to find out from you.”
“Why don’t you write Head Office and
tell ’em what sort of a man he is? Tou
know him, don’t you?”
“I know of him; but I’ve never seen him.
What’s he like? What’s his strong point,
and where’s his loose end?”
“He’s a good stockman,” Alick admitted.
“There’s none better than the same Slippery
Nicholson. But lie’s a crooked cow. He
can make cattle stand up on their hind legs
and do sums if he likes. He’s as crooked as
zigzag lightning, and very near as fast. He
knows his way from Cooktown to Coor-
paroo, and from Sydney to sundown, blind-
folded and backwards. He’d sooner get five
bob crooked than ten pounds straight, and
he'd sooner back a horse than play a harp.
Southern events is his weak point. Like a
lot more of us mugs he thinks he can make
money pickin’ southern winners.”
“Thanks. Anything else? Full pedigree,
please, past performances and colors. Let
it come with a run, Alick.”
“He’s a killer with the unfair sex, too.
There’s not an unliobbled skirt between here
and next Wednesday week that ain’t; a line
for Slippery to trail. That’s the new g.-m.’s
drover. Enough.”
“Thanks,” Parker grunted again. “Do
you know old Stevenson, of Bullpitt Downs?
No? H'e’s as straight a man as ever walked, a
real good stockman of the old school, and
he’s getting old himself. The new g.-m.’s
all for efficiency done up in pound packets
and gold braided. I’ve a notion old Steven-
son’s about to slip at Bullpitt to make room
for a distant relation of the g.m. on the dis-
taff side —to wit. Slippery J. Nicholson. The
g.-m. married a female relation of Slippery’s
or he married one of the g.-m.’s, I forget
which, and there’s a bond of union between
’em. It might be me that’s about to get
the run. But they won’t catch me with my
eyes shut. Have a look at this, will you?”
Parker, who had been rummaging in a
drawer, suddenly straightened and tossed a
bit of cardboard in front of Alick.
Alick turned the card over and found on
the other side of it a photograph of a laugh-
ing girl.
“H-m-m-m,” he said. “Of course, they do
their hair different now when they’ve got
any left to do, and the style of dressing’s
altered; but she’s right up to the minute
on looks alone. Alight I ask”
“I’ll tell,” said Parker, “and you don’t
want to ask any questions out of your turn.
That’s Elsie Cairns as she was a few years
back. At that time, Alick, though I wasn’t
any picture-postcard ad. of anybody’s four-
guinea suit, I wasn’t exactly the sort of
fellow who gives children bad dreams. She
was companion-help or nursery-governess—
something, anyhow, that gives the missus
the right to call on her for jobs the servants
won’t do. She was on Billborough Downs,
and I was on the next place filling in my
rime as head overseer. You get that picture,
do you?
“I wasn’t any skirt-shark, but I hadn’t
been there too long before I found her. There
was nothing between us. But there was
going to be! I cared a heap, and she seemed
to like to have me explain the mysteries
of the bush to her under the moonlight.
“The season came dry, and old Tom Gil-
more, my boss, sent me on the road to see
to a mob of sheep coming to us. There
were no telephones then, and I left in a hurry.
I was here to-day, as it were, and to-morrow
I was only a memory. I had no chance of
explaining' to her that I’d been ordered
bush for a while. She was young and
suppose I was too —and I
didn’t see that she’d given me any license
to write to her and tell her about it.
“About a week after I left J. Nicholson
he wasn’t Slippery then—turned up at
Billbnro/gh. He was cutting a dash and
wantii,/ an investment, talking big and look-
ing gtfand, and he had a letter of introduc-
tion to the manager of Billborough instruct-
ing him to assist Mr. Nicholson in any way
possible. .
“Two days after I got home, which
was a few weeks after Nicholson left,
Elsie Cairns’s dead body was found in the
waterhole in front of the Billborough home-
stead !”
“Drowned?”
“She could swim like a fish —she’d shown
me trophies she’d won at swimming.”
“Then what happened her?”.
“There’s no need to go into details,
Parker explained wearily. “Mind, Aliek, the
girl was fond of me—l’m sure of that. I
went away suddenly and mysteriously. It s
only the old, old story. A lonely and hurt
girl, a flash and unscrupulous scoundrel like
Slippery Nicholson, assurances and pro-
mises made which are never to be honored —
oh, it’s all been played before since the world
began! You’re loyal to me, Alick, and I
want your help. That’s why I’m telling
you all this. How about it?”
“We deliver on the first of November,”
Alick ruminated. “I’ll want the best part
of a fortnight to clean up after that. Then,
if you don’t mind, I’ll take me best horses
and a month or two’s spell on the road. We
have no proof, nothing on which we could
nail him ; but if he slips this time then we’ll
put the skids under him. I’m not telling
my tale ; but I also have a little matter to
square with Slippery.”
Alick rose from his chair and looked his
boss squarely in the eyes as they shook
hands. Then he turned and left the office,
going out to his camp to prepare for the bul-
lock muster and delivery.
On the given date the bullocks were deli-
vered.
“Il’dred,” Parker called as the last of the
cattle strung between them.
“Twelve,” the tally-keeper replied, tying
another knot in the fall of his whip.
“And two,” Parker continued as the last
beast dawdled past.
“And two,” Nicholson echoed, agreeing
with the count.
“Very well, Nicholson, they’re yours. Take
out any two you’d like to reject. Then we’ll
sign the contract and I’ll take your receipt
of delivery. Alick Oswald and Jim Ander-
son will go with you a few days and give
you a hand if you want it. When they’ve
seen you through the Alltucker boundary,
about thirty miles on, they’ll come back. The
manager of Alltucker wants a count through
his boundary. Alick will leave you after
seeing you have your full number. You’ll
be right by then, I think.”
“To see I haven’t picked up any, yon
mean,” Nicholson sneered. “And what if I
won’t give him a count?”
“The manager has the right to demand a
count of entering stock. You know that.
Give me your-delivery receipt, and sign these
contracts. Then you can go and keep going.”
After six weeks on the road, and two days
before reaching the town of Eurella, Nichol-
son held a consultation with his second-in-
charge. “Parker thinks he’s shrewd,” said
he. “He blocked me from picking up a
mob on the Booralie boundary; but we ain’t
done with him yet. You poke along steady
with the cattle, following the road in by the
Gum Holes, and I’ll meet you about there
the day after to-morrow.”
Nicholson met the man he sought in Eur-
ella. and there he made his offer.
“Is it safe?” the other asked.
“Of course it’s safe,” Nicholson blustered.
“Them bullocks is worth twelve quid in the
open market. But this ain’t any public
auction I’m conducting. I’m offering you
two hundred at nine-pound-ten. I take all
responsibility. Don’t you worry about that.
I’ll bluff old Stevenson at Bullpitt. In six
months, when another count’s made, Steven-
son won’t be able to explain the loss, and
I’ll be manager of Bullpitt. Then there’ll
be some more of the same for you and me.
What about it? I’ve another buyer waiting.
Going, going—do you take ’em?”
“How’ll you beat old Stevenson at the
delivery count?”
“That’s my business. If you take these
bullocks I'll be two hundred head short, but
that much more in pocket. I love me pocket
more than I do them bullocks. I’ll cut these
bullocks in two mobs this side of Bullpitt.
I’ll deliver one mob and promise the rest
the next day. Bullpitt’s all paddock coun-
try. They won’t move too far the first night
they’re let go. I’ll have me full two hundred
in the morning, don’t you worry, and I’ll
(Continued on next page.)


r#’s the Gin
#hey
th at home
The name “ GORDON ” guarantees the very
highest standard of quality and absolute
purity ; a reputation enjoyed and jealously
guarded for over 150 years.
Gordon’s Gin is produced in London,
England, by the original process of distillation
from the original recipe, the secrets of which
belong to the HOUSE of GORDON and
have been handed down through generations.
It is for this reason Gordon’s Gin has the
largest sale at Home and throughout the
World; having no rival for Purity or
Quality.
v dl<s> mi’s
Guaranteed distilled
in London, England <
dlßf
trt
Gordons
mW/ <£>.*■ IMJ6
w
dry Gin
WHITEST, PUREST
AND BEST
The Heart
of a Good
Cocktail
M?
BY APPOINTMENT.
The Largest Gin Distillers
in the World
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
DOMINION FORESTS LTD.
HEAD QFFICE: 26 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH.
NOMINAL CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
SPECIAL AFFORESTATION-ASSURANCE BOND ISSUE.
OUR BOND, BOUGHT FOR £3O on very easy terms, provides:—
ONE FREEHOLD ACRE planted with 650 Pinus insignia trees, planted
in N.Z., and a
FREE INSURANCE POLICY FOR £250 FOR 10 YEARS.
NO BETTER PROPOSITION OFFERED.
WRITE TO-DAY FOR PROSPECTUS. COVER THAT DEATH RISK.
deliver me second mob without any short
other than killers on the road. I’ll whip
on during the night and lift two hundred of
those delivered and repeat ditto with ’em
to-morrow, see!”
"Sure you can do it?”
“P’ff!” Nicholson laughed scornfully.
"How about it?”
“I'll have a look at ’em to-morrow.”
“Cash?”
"If I buy it’ll be cash.”
The following day the bullocks were in-
spected and two hundred of the best were
cut out, held in a bit of scrub, and that night
driven over the ranges to a receiving paddock.
By the light of a lantern, and using an up-
turned bucket as iktable, Nicholson endorsed
a cheque for nineteen hundred pounds and
enclosed it. in an envelope addressed to his
bank.
“Parker’s cunning,” he said to himself.
“Almost I’d give him a cut of this if only
I could let him know how I’ve beat him.
There’s fifty apiece for the men, another
fifty for odds and ends, three hundred for
Straightfire, and that nets me a clear twelve
hundred. How I’d love to let Parker know
how I’ve wheeled him. I might some day,
too.”
When nearing the Bullpitt boundary
Nicholson cut his mob in two, explaining to
Stevenson that the tail six hundred were
footsore and had to be treated as a hospital
mob. He would deliver the first half about
sunrise on Wednesday, and the tailers he
would deliver the following day about dinner-
ti me.
On Wednesday morning Stevenson and his
men took delivery of six hundred bullocks.
Taking advantage of Nicholson’s offer, they
accepted his assistance to drive the mob
to Pint-pot Paddock, where, Stevenson
explained, they would be left for a while.
“Mick,” chuckled Nicholson, digging his
second-in-charge in the ribs, “why do they
breed ’em so soft? Those old fellows in
their second childhood ain’t fit 10 be let loose
among full-grown men. They’re lettin’ ’em
go in Pint-pot, right beside the boundary.
You know what to do? Camp here, keep
your eyes open, and look for me about two
o’clock in the morning.”
Mick, the leader of a silent gang who used
their mouths only for chewing, said nothing.
Nicholson rode to the camp, let his horse
go, had supper, got a fresh mount, and, as
darkness set in, rode to Pint-pot Paddock.
He let himself in at the gate and rode
toward the Pint-pot holes.
“They won’t move far,” he told himself,
"and I’ll pick up me couple of hundred easy.
I’ll get back to the tailers with ’em before
daylight, and that gives me the full twelve
hundred delivered to old Santa Claus. Why
do they make it so easy for a good man to
go wrong?”
At the Pint-pot holes there were no cattle.
Nicholson, cursing softly at his first check,
turned and rode' up the creek. For an hour
he rode, but never a sound or a sight of a
beast did he get. In the moonlight he
noticed cattle pads running parallel with the
creek, lie dismounted, struck a match and
examined them. With a curse he snapped
the match out as the old tracks were shown
to him. He remounted and took a diagonal
course through the paddock. Every now
and again he stopped to listen, and every
pad he crossed he scrutinised. Neither track,
sound nor sight of a beast did he get!
"Blast it!” he snapped in disgust after
several hours. "I thought 1 knew this pad-
dock. And I know those cattle! It
seems I took this lot too cheap. I wonder
if Mick’s got. enough sense to rush them
cattle if I don’t get back in time? I’d go
back now and tell him, but I ain’t got the
time to spare. Blast it, where can them
cattle be?”
As the day was breaking, Mick, wonder-
ing at his boss’s absence, let the cattle draw
off the camp to feed. A seasoned warrior, he
knew something had gone wrong. As he
was not used to talking he only thought, and
Ins thoughts ran:
"If the boss ain’t back by sunrise I’ll
give the mob a start and let ’em go. That’ll
make tracks enough for old Stevenson to
think it’s a . rush, and it’ll give us another
day and a night to pick ’em up. If the boss
can’t get in his good work in that time
■he’s lost his punch!”
As the east was reddening, and almost
as Mick was on the point of charging in
the cattle and rushing them, two men rode
towards the mob from the boundary gate.
Mick continued to ride across the face of
the feeding cattle, apparently taking no in-
terest in anything except his work. With
a start he recognised the men: one was T.
Stevenson, manager of Bullpitt Downs, to
which man. and station the waybill stated the
cattle were consigned. The other was D.
Parker, manager of Booralie, from which
man and station the cattle had come!
"G’mornin’,” Stevenson addressed Mick.
‘ Where’s Nicholson?”
Mick nodded towards the camp where, at
that time of the morning, the boss drover
should be having his breakfast after seeing
the cattle off camp.
The two men rode to the camp, dis-
mounted, and, as they tied their horses,
Nicholson rode out of a patch of timber on
the other side. Being pre-occupied with his
own thoughts he failed to notice the strange
horses, and did not know of the men’s pres-
ence till Parker hailed him.
"Good morning, Nicholson,” he called
cheerily, and added softly: “Did you find
’em ?”
“Bind what?” Nicholson snapped.
"The cattle in Pint-pot, of course. If
there ace any there it’s a mistake. Mr
Stevenson and his men took ’em right on
yesterday evening to Split-link Paddock
You know Split-link, don’t you. It’s a good
six miles the other side of Pint-pot Mr
Stevenson was afraid they’d camp badly so
close to the boundary. Was he right d‘’you
think?”
“What the blazes had it got to do with
you, anyway?” Nicholson exploded “You
seem to know a hell of a lot all of a heap
What d’you think you’re talkin’ about?”
"I was just making polite reference to
your contract, Nicholson. You’ll remember
that .Clause 9 states anything over 2 per
cent, loss have to be paid for at full market
rates. Also, you must account for all cattle
short delivered. You’re going to have a
sultry time, I’m thinkin’.”
“Who are you, anyway?” Nicholson tried
to bluff, "I’m delivering to the manager of
Bullpitt. Who are you? I only recognise
the manager of Bullpitt and the general
manager, Mr. Gravitt.”
"It’s out of Mr. Gravitt’s hands,” Parker
advised genially. "We’ve handed it on to
the stock inspector, and he’s bringing the
police. They’ll be here when we count the
cattle. Of course you might make ’em good,
but I’m doubtful. If you don't—how do you
think you'll like the feel of handcuffs, Slip-
pery? Aliek Oswald followed you to Eurella,
and we’ve got the bullocks you sold Taggart.”
"You’re . making yourself terrible busy,
ain’t you?” Nicholson sneered. “Anyway,
Mr. Nosey Parker, what’s it got to do with
you? Who put you on to following me?”
“I followed for several reasons,” Parker
explained. “One is that I have a letter to
deliver to you.”
"Let’s have this important document,”
Nicholson snarled.
Parker stepped forward and handed the
man an envelope. With fumbling fingers
Nicholson opened it and drew out a card,
lie lifted the flap which covered it, and saw
the picture of Elsie Cairns!
The Bulb.
I found it underground, a warm recluse,
And the cold air
Might not with frosty fingers touch it
there,
Or chill the juice
That still was welling in it to produce
A gallant flower
At the appointed hour.
Even as a soul the body clothes, it lay
Content until
The sun should, warming with his passion,
thrill
The dumb cold clay,
And that which held it prisoner burst away,
As up it came
As in a golden flame.
So I re-covered it and left it there,
A living thing
That waited but the coming of the spring,
So it might wear
A radiant garment, when in the sweet air
It bloomed above
As in a dream of love.
N.S.W.
R. Crawford.
Winter Sea.
From the wan grey water I turn with
affright
At the sum of my smallness. It looms far
and vast
Under the on-coming gloom of night
Spreading wide wings in its dolorous flight,
Like the darkness that covers us all at the
last.
Is this the same yellow cliff drenched with
the sun
That silvered the sea-daisies, burnt the
wild rue
Into rich-smelling .sweetness ? Bright summer
is gone
From the court that she held and left never
a one
Of her gracious attendants, her gay retinue.
With a stillness more sad than the might
of the storm
The tide laps the beaches, the fog wraps
the shore,
And the winter chill reaches the heart once
so warm
With the red blood of living, a shadowy
form
That bars Delight’s windows and fastens
the door.
But this I know surely, more certain than
most.
Could I keep an old tryst with the tide at
the turn
’Twould be summer for me on this wind-
bitten coast
Spite of all, with the ships that were long
ago lost
Plunging home through the blue with the
sad days astern.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.
Heaven.
On old pine walls the glimmer
Of mellow candlelight;
Brown of a desk, and the books ranked
Stiffly, left and right;
Glint in a nook of shadows
Of a well-loved instrument
That waits the touch of fingers
Over the white keys bent.
Outside, below the mountain.
Where the tall trees upward climb,
The little creek goes pealing—
Chime ! chime ! chime !
Through the still cathedral
That once, long ago,
Some forgotten god arched
With a cobalt bow ;
Ringing now with laughter
Of one late acolyte,
Pulsing with the glory
Of the quickening night!
Through the still cathedral
Of the mottled gums,
Over the brown boulders
Like a roll of fairy drums,
Over the smooth white pebbles,
The yellow, glistening sand,
The little creek goes chiming
Across a twilit land.
Dear land! Dear trees! Dear twilight,
And water rushing by!
Beauty that is ageless
Goes up like a sudden cry.
Goes up like a strange, thin incense
Haloing the peak,
Veiling the dim cathedral
And the softly-chiming creek.
Then the dark, like a flowing mantle,
Settles, vast and still.
It is night, with the curlews calling,
And the cowbells round the hill.
Night, where the dim brass wavers,
And the clock is chiming seven,
And a child’s sweet voice is calling
In my little bit of H'eaven.
QUEENSLAND.
E.M. ENGLAND.


ẅ
WESTIN G HOUSE
Morse Siient Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear —
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES « CHURCH, Brisbane. rnMfftDn WrCT M C
N.Z. Office—93-107 I eatherston Street, Wellington. IiUM/UKU VV ho 1, IX. V» ALLo
Victorian Office—“ Chancery House,” 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER. SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper.
To-day, in the great State of Queensland, the newspaper that
offers to merchants and manufacturers unquestionably the
finest “cover” in the daily paper field is
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
Circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be
greater than that of any other Queensland daily.
For rates and other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE,
First Floor, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854,
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
What is needed more than anything else in
Newspaper advertising is “QUALITY.” It, is
far better to use one OUTSTANDING medium
which holds the confidence of its readers than
to advertise in several mediocre ones.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“THE AGE”
has exerted an influence in the affairs and
development of Victoria. Its present powerful
position has been gained by its literary worth,
which appeals to an intelligent public, and
by its accurate and complete news service.
These factors have a direct bearing upon its
value as an advertising medium and cannot be
disregarded by the advertiser who desires to
obtain the best value for his advertising and
expenditure.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation,
123,533.
Hates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Che Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Goteh, price I'J d. ,
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, 133 a Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town and
Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and each
issue is eagerly read by men, women and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays. Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYLWEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 228
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: ‘Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
Uedtime io a (food
time -4ut any.
timid the tight
time to take ,
/fadvan*
PKScTX *%?aa +
<z>
«a
Worth a
Guinea
a Box.
sapi
wm.
m.
5 i feil
tfpmHjgj *w+w
ic^swhs
■
SHi
ss
'.•V
i
X y
M
K|
l■' V
ss
'
Vo!. 5.
TUESDAY, AUGUST 6, 1929
No. 37
wr>
m f~Jn
\,Mw
l
.
:
THIS WEEK’S FREE PATTERN
(See page 64)
Over 160,000 Copies Sold Every Week
m
l§t
64 Pages
of
Reading for the Home
STORIES, VERSE. SPECIAL
ARTICLES
Fashions* Needlework
Health,, Household,
Books, etc.
Published by
\
■wv (
*Sb
o<*
0°
e
6>
AC
:
s e
s®
tv*'
• "** •*’** .'**l w
. *** ..--'ft
..** s e?Lv°-
• t v.’ s o •fc® < ,v v
*
w e :> 9
*<*
!


LABEL
COLD
'n
(!Md scoicffWtysf&
«
** jRi
* VT nirni Of SCOTCH WHISKY.
vdinbury/u
p *OOyctO IN SCOTIA** 0
'IJPJJ 1
(paton)
uhe %urth of the Georges
bat
tyhe %vft of Whiskies*
