

m
m
I
st
'\
1
m
>s
mm
s
&
s«fcs
o x
I
'
s?
■JXY-
Wj
1
O'
•/.
y.
m
M
<Z
<o
&
<?
m
d
4r
• • -•
K
WM
v V
0°
■
■
S>
4,
w
%
*
\
■%
S
i
m
v\-
■
11
y~ thfr qq
Tv
LIFE” l; c ,.,
n efe » d,
LIFE” an e «Q're/ dthe y’r e P u a y tin 0 r t u^ a / t
-wj of '* a^ Uf _ * F
aCCOS *e to a VNT *Y
—. %w® e °«* o/y^W
ISA »„,/
Tins _>/ 50 #//</IQO
l'e
m
HU
F
UJ
<D
»g
Q
The Bulletin
hfa/t+y C4vu&{yy&q- / ~U\sl J&Wij yQ&ucdt — z&fa/ri- if 'tQ-daAj'.
Vol. 50.—N0. 2596.
Wednesday, November 13, 1929.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


for the Library Catalogue and
v terms, and lists on all subjects, which
will be forwarded post free on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
mM
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON!
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
HP
HW 3
Cream of Yeast is sold by Chemists and Stores—24 Tablets, 1/11}
48 Tablets, 3/6; 125 Tablets, 5/9 . Get a Package to-day and try itl
mm
ABOVE. —-Lois Moran and George O’Brien, famous “FOX'’ Stars, practising acrobatics in the gymnasium.
Fitness is vital to film stars, and they supplement their exercise by taking Cream, of Yeast.
Amazing Vigor
through Cream of Yeast
Instant Pep and Sparkling fitness —that’s what you
get from Cream of Yeast, the greatest tonic “pick-
me-up” in the world. Cream of Yeast incorporates
the very finest Yeast, procured for health purposes
only, without gas-forming features, and with full
vitamin qualities preserved.. Cream of Yeast pro-
motes healthy appetite and sound digestion, stops
nerve pains and depression, regulates the system and
makes you feel better and brighter in a few minutes.
Cream of Yeast is more than yeast, it is a safe,
reliable tonic remedy ; made by one of the greatest
chemical organisations in the world, and is the
Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla B
very thing for those who feel tired, nervous, depressed
and unfit. Prove its wonderful value for yourself.
Salitf ■■'ion guaranteed.
re
43
uilding, Sydney, and all Chemists.
NEW GLOSSY HAIR
—No Dandruff.
Prolongs Youthful Smartness; Imparts
that Well-Bred, Well-Groomed Look!
Vi-Glo, the amazing new
scalp treatment, is the best
way to grow hair, banish
dandruff and overcome pre-
mature greyness ever devised.
Vi-Glo keeps the hair youth-
ful and healthy. If your
hair is falling out, splitting
or is dull and; lifeless—
restore it to perfect condition
by using Vi-Glo. Price 3/-
at all Chemists, complete
with special free shampoo,
or by post, 3/4, from Vi-
Glorient Co., Kembla Build-
ing, Sydney.
ytuyu
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE
SOLD AT CHEMISTS, GROCERS
and STORES. Price If-
The Great Insect Destroyer—
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY,
Melbourne, Agents.
The Red Page
Fifty to Date
Up to the time of writing, 50 manuscripts
are in hand for The Bulletin’s Second
Novel Competition, which closes on
December 31, 1929, at the Head Office of
The Bulletin, 214 George-street North,
Sydney. Writers who have their MSS.
completed should take no risk about getting
in too late, which was the fate of a few
last year. The most optimistic and patient
of last year’s latecomers was the one who
said, “Oh, well; there is another of these
competitions, isn’t there?”
It has been decided that this year the
judging will be done by The Bulletin ;
and in view of the tremendous task ahead,
the earlier the entries can be prepared for
judgment the better pleased the judges will
be.
If the competition turns out to be as
successful as the first, everyone interested
in the development of Australian literature
should be gratified. Of the first prize-
winners, both “A House Is Built” and
“Coonardoo” have been highly praised by
critics all over the world. The other,
Vance Palmer’s gripping story, “Men Are
Human,” is due to appear shortly as a
Bulletin serial. Written in Vance Palmer’s
best vein, it is a story worth looking forward
to. Of those that got closest to being prize-
winners, several have made successful
serials, and a number of others have been
published in book form.
The prizes are: First, £400; second, £250;
third, £lOO.
Entries that failed in the .First Competi-
tion are eligible. Many of them lost owing
to defects which might have been removed
by revision.
The prize stories are to be available for
publication serially,; but apart from that the
copyright of every story will be reserved to
the writer, to whom all profits on the pub-
, lication of the story in book form will
belong. Cinema and dramatic rights also
will belong absolutely to the writer, but
the prize-winning stories and those that may
be bought for serial use shall not be avail-
able for cinema or stage presentation until
after their publication as serials.
Competitors must be Australian-born or
bona fide resident in Australia. (Australia,
for the purpose of this paragraph, includes
New Zealand and the Southern Pacific.)
Every story for competition must be sub-
mitted under a now de plume; and the
name and address of the writer, with the
nom de plume, must accompany it in a
sealed envelope, which will not be opened
until after the stories have been judged.
Stories submitted for competition must not
have been previously published.
Entries will be considered from the point
of view of suitability for serial publication
in either The Bulletin or the Woman’s
Mirror.
If stamps are enclosed, all MSS. that do
not gain a place will be returned to their
authors promptly after the decision is made.
Competitors whose entries do not gain a
prize, but work is considered suitable
for serial publication, will be notified that
the Bulletin Newspaper Co. is prepared to
purchase the serial rights. , Competitors
will be permitted to withdraw entries before
the closing date if they so desire.
The Bulletin will be pleased to supply
any further information upon request.
Portrait of an Artist
The Low portrait of “Hop” reproduced
here gives a good impression of the physical
side of the man who gave Bulletin readers
no less than 19,000 drawings to laugh over.
That was in another generation, but the
laughter was loud, and some of the echoes
have not yet died away. One enthusiast
said that if “Hop” merely drew a straight
line it would be funny.
Another good portrait of him, the “Hop”
as he lived, is given by his daughter,
Dorothy June Hopkins, in “Hop” of The
Bulletin, admirably produced by Angus and
Robertson, with i 3 cartoons and 20 other
illustrations by “Hop,” nine caricatures by
Low of Archibald, Stephens, Norman Lind-
say and other such leading literary and
artistic figures, and a portrait of Henry
Lawson by Frank Mahony.
The “Hop” of the biography is an evenly-
balanced domestic parent, sprung from an-
cestors who looked upon the fiddle as an
instrument of the Devil. But, “however
much he may have resented it in his youth,
it is clear that 'Hop’ afterwards looked
upon his early religious training as having
been distinctly helpful in developing a
sense of humor.” His wife, too, was a
straight liver, who could not understand
what his frequenting of clubs and thus
meeting the political and other lights of
the day had to do with the making of
humorous drawings that he did at home in
his study.
But life at Mosman was happy and
peaceful, and quite the best things in this
book are the vignettes, which show up that
life with etched clearness. There is “Hop’s”
love for the birds that haunted the garden
trees, and his making of drinking and bath-
ing retreats for them about the grounds.
Then the inevitable cat comes to prey.
Any ordinary person would have been con-
tent with heaving a boot or half a brick
at it, but not “Hop.” He retired to his
study and carefully fashioned a bow and
arrow. Then he waited in the shadows, and
eventually missed.
Then there is the ’possum which used
to come out of the surrounding trees, along
the side of the house, and so into “Hop’s”
study to be fed with tasty things that
’possums fancj'. It vanishes. There is a
long interlude of wondering what had hap-
pened to it, with “Hop” leaving his door
open in hope. Then one night he is sitting
there and hears a little noise on the floor
beside him. He looks across, and there is
the ’possum with her ridiculous little baby
beside her.
That is invaluable biography. It does not
predominate in the book, but what there is
of it is neatfy unfolded and always diverting.
There is plenty of Hoppish humor, too;
such as his having to soak his first wages
off the palm of his hand, he having been
paid in postage stamps. The story is eked
out with a running history of The Bulletin,
HOP.
to which “Hop” came in the early days,
engaged for the post in America, where he
was born. He shared rooms with Phil May,
made George Reid and Parkes the best
known Australians in Australia and in the
world, and met in his day pretty well every-
one of any importance in this country.
Occasionall} 1 - he broke into verse, but his
efforts m that line were not exhilarating.
It was the humor that he could infuse into
a drawing that mattered. There he was
inimitable. No one else had done anything
quite like it. Perhaps no one ever will.
And that is high achievement in art, or
in anything else.
Aylmer Maude and Tolstoy
In. a long-range broadside from Chelms-
ford (Eng.), Aylmer Maude (R.P.
23/10/’29) rakes me fore and aft for some
remarks I made on the Red Page con-
cerning Tolstoy and the light flung on him
by a recently-published diary of Countess
Tolstoy. He denies me the right of regard-
ing the Countess’s remarks as an authorita-
tive judgment on her husband.
Mr. Maude’s own work has been invalu-
able to recent psycho-analysts who have
endeavored to locate the real Tolstoy under
the protective layer that seer so assiduously
plastered over himself. For instance, Mr.
Maude quotes the governess Anna Seuron
as saying that “his [Tolstoy’s] blouse had
to be specially long to cover the upper
part of his trousers, about which he was
particularly modest”; also that “his daughter
always avoided letting her father see her
in decollete.” Comment is needless.
Mr. Maude labors the inference that
nobody who was not close up against the
giant could distinguish his real proportions.
Mr. Maude was very close to Tolstoy for
more than a generation. In fact, he was
such a convinced Tolstoyan that he joined
the ill-fated colony at Purleigh, of which
he remarks that
partly owing to the strain it put upon men’s minds,
and partly because every strenuous movement attracts
some ill-balanced people, there was much insanity
at Purleigh. At least five of those who lived or
stayed at the colony while I was there were
subsequently put under medical supervision on account
of their mental condition.
Mr. Maude’s book makes Tolstoy out a
very complex person. Seen by psychologists
of a later generation in a deeper perspective
he appears very simple. In America they
would call him an Elmer Gantry. In Aus-
tralia, our novelists having failed as yet to
particularise the type; we generalise and
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


Depend on Anthony Horderns 9 for “ TRUTH IN ADVERTISING .**
Anthony Horderns
(The Senior Store)
for all
Good Agricultural Necessities
There is no keener judge of values than "the man on the
land” when he is buying agricultural imp/ements. He
knows what he wants and the price he means^ toj
he sees that he gets it. The huge business done by A
Horderns* Agricultural Department is the far mers tribiute
to Anthony Horderns* policy of offering
the lowest possible price and always giving a square dea .
«
XT 12
XT o4\
The Famous Star Disc Harrows, from £l3
THE STAR DISC HARROW contains all
the features of any importance in a Disc
Harrow, and includes, besides, many ad-
vantages and conveniences for the cheap
and successful use of such an implement,
among which we mention the following:—
Frames and Braces. The strong channel-
steel frame and braces that hold both ends
of each gang down to their work, and,
at the same time, give the desired
flexibility, . ,
Seat. A seat s 6 arranged that it can be
adjusted for a light or heavy driver, and
an excess of weight taken off the horses
necks. _ 1 1 i
Pole. Now dispensed with, a two-wheeled
fore-truck taking its place, doing away
with all friction on the horses, and en-
abling operator to turn his team in their
own length.
Rollers. Anti-friction rollers over the
draw irons, by which the gangs can be
placed at any angle without strain or
friction, and with least power. Also fitted
with 2- and 3-Horse Swingle Trees, i.e.,
2 for sft.; 3 for 6ft.
Bearings. Most durable bearings, with
oil-holes protected from dust with spring
steel covers.
Complete Machine. The whole excellently
finished and made with every modern
improvement and convenience and to be
operated with greatest ease for man and
team.
3ft. wide, 6 discs, 1 6in. size of discs £l3
Light 2-Horse, sft. wide, 10 discs,
16in. size of discs, 3021 b. nett
weight £l7
2- or 3-Horse, 6ft. wide, 12 discs,
16 in. size of discs, 3691 b. nett
weight (XT 12) £lB
All Star Harrows have two levers. Clean-
ers included.
Ransomes’ All-
Steel ‘ ‘Victory”
Plough
The “Victory” Plough has
been specially designed to
meet the requirements of
farmers needing a simple,
light plough, taking only a
minimum draught. All
parts, excepting the wheel
and handle grips, are made
entirely of high quality
wrought steel to obtain the
very maximum of strength
from a minimum of weight.
Weight, 1041 b £5
Ransomes* Im-
proved Chain
Harrows
Made entirely of wrought-
iron links, which Have tKe
property of cleaning them-
selves from all accumula-
tion of soil.
Stocked in the following
Sizes: —
sft. x 7ft. 6in. Weight,
1521 b. Price .. £4/5/-
6ft. x 7ft. 6in. Weight,
1881 b. Price £5
10ft. x 7ft. 6in. Weight,
3151 b. Price . . £7/18/6
ytuyu
Reliable Pumps and Fittings at Moderate Prices
SUCTION
ShoYVurvs
Inlerna
Ac\Ton
r
ŕ
ytuyu
COG
GEAR
res?*
The “Myers” Siphon
Pumps
These pumps are so constructed that
working parts can be removed without
disturbing the suction or discharge
pipes.
The Cylinders are of drawn brass,
have brass valve caps, all brass
plungers and brass covered piston rods.
The Myers Siphon Pump, with 3in.
Cylinder, capacity 730 gallons per hour,
tapped for 1 Jin. pipe suction and dis-
charge. Price £B/5/-
Ditto, with 3 Jin. Cylinder, capacity
1000 gallons per hour, tapped for 1 Jin.
pipe suction and discharge . . £9/15/-
Two of Our Most Popular
Types
All-Brass Cylinder Pump, side bolted, im-
proved valve. Has heavy rod, hard tube,
brass bar rel (XT 55).
Size of Screw for
barrel pip e Price
2 in. .. I |in. .. 40/-
2 Jin. .. 1 iin. .. 42/6
3 in. . . 1 Jin. or 2in. 50/-
3Jin. . . 2 in. . . 70/-
4 in. . . 2 in. . . 80/-
Length of stroke, 12 inches.
All-Brass Bore Cylinders. Exactly the same
sizes; prices, etc., as above (XT 486).
Agricultural Dept., Fourth Floor —Freight Extra
XT 40.
The
Douglas
Pump
Douglas Pattern
Lifting Pumps
(XT 40). A use-
ful Pump for farm
and domestic pur-
poses. Strong and
well finished.
Sizes. Prices
No. 2 32/6
No. 4 407-
No. 5 50/-
XT 483.
Force Tank
Pump
Myers Double - Acting
Force Tank Pump. The
cylinder is made from
polished iron; is equipped
with poppet valves, which
hold the water. All valves,
being under the hood, are
easy to get at. The Suc-
tion and Discharge are
threaded for 2in. pipe.
Capacity, 2000 gals, per
hour. This is very fine
value at price . . £5/2/6
ŗ
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
ř


■-% & ,r isr-~
_o' r/ft<C££
tfy
A
p
y^?<y
;j *. r' n \ >
V,-0 /.. \a
,41 yifM
,# S IA -K
mr > c^
w Air x
M
AiA
*
R«/e / instead of Read
#
We could turn this whole page black with type describing
the many modern features, engineering advancements and
luxuries of the new Dodge Six. But we’d rather have you
drive for an hour in this remarkable new car than read about
it for a week. Call your nearest Dodge Brothers dealer.
Ne-w
Dddee-Brdthers six
Chrysler Motors Product
6 D 8628
AUSTRALIAN DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S-W Harden & Johnston Limited, Sydney
Vic.: Canada Cycle & Motor Co. (Vic.) Pty.Ltd..Melbourne
Qld • Austral Motors Limited, Brisbane
S.A.
W.A
Tasmania:
Waymouth Motor Company Limited, Adelaide
Winterbottom Motor Company Limited. Perth
Co-operative Motors Ltd., Hobart.


st
C
' K
-
r
Fijian
Native
Dancers
Colourful - Picturesque - Unique
Fiji’s Native Dancing and Ceremonial
In honor of the visit to Suva,
Fiji, on 7th December, by the
majestic "Malolo” (22,000
tons) —embodying in its con-
struction every form of luxury
and modern equipment —with
350 Round-the-Pacific Tour-
ists aboard, a wonderful pro-
gramme of native dances and
ceremonies is being arranged.
Fully manned native canoes
will convoy the " Malolo ”
through Suva Harbour. Pro-
grammes by Fijian Native
Bands. A series of Club,
Spear and Fan Dances by over
200 natives in Aljpert Park. A
most unusual, unique and inter-
esting entertainment, to be
witnessed nowhere outside Fiji.
The ceremonies are in the
hands of Ratu P. E. Seniloli,
High Chief of the Island
of Bau, grandson of King
Cakabau.
Sailings of the Oceanic S.S. Coy.’s Steamers to and from Sydney are
timed most conveniently to enable Australians also to be present on
this unique and unusual occasion.
S.S. " VENTURA ” Leaves Sydney 30th November
Arrives Suva sth December
S.S. "SIERRA” Returns from Suva on 7th December
and arrives Sydney 12th
BOOK YOUR PASSAGE NOW.
* Oceanic SteamshipC*
MATSON LINE
12 Bridge Street, Sydney
Local Agents: Mcllwraith McEacharn Ltd., 94-96 William St., Melbourne; 117-119 King
William St., Adelaide; Fremantle, Perth, Albany; Howard Smith Ltd., Brisbane, Townsville
Write for descriptive
pamphlets, fare lists,
sailing dates, etc.
Name
Address
M-29
call him a wowser. Viewed through his own
diaries, his self-revelatory novels, the
journals of his wife, of Goldenveiser and
others, he looks spiritually quite a small
thing. In making him, it appears, God per-
petrated the joke of equipping the soul of
a revivalist preacher with the energy ol a
human Etna and the intellect of a super-
man. But essentially he stays the revivalist.
The whole course of his development can
be summed up very succinctly. First we
find an enormous lust for life; then comes
the automatic revulsion from all flesh, fear
of the theological consequences of his cor-
poreality, a frantic endeavor to avoid those
consequences by renunciation (vegetarian-
ism, non-smoking, the flight from women),
the necessary belief in redemption by sacri-
fice, and finally a period of apparent peace
which the sufferer regards as the reward
of his pious efforts but which-the psychiat-
rist would probably attribute to the sus-
pension of certain gland secretions.
Here, despite its parade of humanitarian-
ism and its pretence of an earthly beatitude,
we have the primitive organism in all its
nakedness. Like Beethoven and Shakspeare
and every acutely sensitive mind, Tolstoy
became terribly aware of the cage in which
physical existence confined him. But where-
as Shakspeare and Beethoven discovered
joy which melted their bonds and incident-
ally caused them to produce works of im-
perishable reality, Tolstoy alternately kissed
and battered his head against the bars, filled
the world with his lamentations, and then
invited God and humanity to rejoice in
the unseemly spectacle in a series of worth-
less pamphlets.
Mr. Maude accuses me of misrepresen-
tation with regard to the Countess Tol-
stoy’s domestic felicity. He should know
something about misrepresentation. He
quotes the countess’s early diary as proof
of her happiness. In her later journal she
remarks, under date January 25, 1897:
He has become kinder to me of late, and although
I like to deceive myself on the subject, I cannot
help feeling that it is all due to his improved health
and to the return of his former sensuality.
And again:— :
I know I am in his way when he doesn’t need me
for his satisfaction.
These days are so depressing when I feel a physical
aversion towards my husband —but I can’t, I can’t
get used to it —to all the dirt, the smell—-I do my
best to concentrate on his spiritual self, and I succeed
when he is kind to me.
A month later she remarks:—
He would like the world to see him on the
pedestal which he has constructed with such endless
effort, while his diaries trail him back into the
mud where he had lived before —and that is what
annoys him.
No wonder that, as Mr. Maude says, she
developed suicidal mania; but a modern
psychologist might know better where to
place the blame for it.
Mr. Maude charges me with grotesque
misrepresentation for saying that the fear
of eternal punishment dominated Tolstoy.
For such a complete animalist physical
extinction was eternal punishment; Death,
he says, “is incredible,” and because he lives
in panic terror of it he deliberately takes
up his residence in a mental morgue, like
those monks of Malta who filled their bed-
chambers with the bones of their deceased
colleagues.
Finally, Mr. Maude disapproves of my
suggestion that “What Is Art?” is the most
barbarous of Tolstoy’s productions. Says
Mr. Maude in his preface to his own trans-
lation of that work (1898): —
For those of us who have felt that art is too
valuable a matter to be lost out of our lives, and
who, in their quest for social justice, have met the
reproach that they were sacrificing the pleasures
and advantages of art, this book is of inestimable
value.
It was after Tolstoy forsook creative effort
for the “quest for social justice” that the
artist became submerged in the revivalist
preacher and his works became completely
negligible. The fact that G. B. Shaw
praised “What Is Art?” is sufficient con-
demnation of that incoherent document. If
Mr. Maude had been able to quote a testi-
monial from the later H. G. Wells the
indictment, would have been even more con-
clusive.
M. G. SKIPPER.
Washing Through the Ages
In The Power of the Dog (Sampson Low),
the book which Donn Byrne finished just
before he died, we see English life at the
beginning of the nineteenth century through
the emotional eyes of a poet. Castlereagh
is the central figure, but Pitt, Fox and all
the other great ones of the period come
vividly to life. Byrne, like his fellow-
countryman Shaw, gets some of his most
striking effects by turning popular tradi-
tions upside-down. However, there is one
demonstrably false legend which he per-
petuates—that of “the well-tubbed English-
man.” There are constant references to the
cleanliness of Castlereagh and his friends;
and they protest a good deal too much about
the “malodorous body linen” of the French
and Napoleon’s “greasy face,” “blackened
finger-nails.” and so on.
Some day a historian will investigate the
rise and fall of nations with reference to
their bathing habits—a question of great
political significance—and give the case of
England close attention.
When Pitt and Fox died in 1806 England
was the most important country on earth.
It ruled all the seas. It was richer, rela-
tively to its rivals, than the LT.S.A. is now.
Its manufacturing supremacy was so com-
plete that the City was already talking
of Freetrade. And it was phenomenally
dirty.
Cleanliness with the average human being
is a matter partly of climate, but still more
of the existence of washing facilities. Few
will struggle hard to be clean. The rich
are only cleaner than the “sweating mob”
which so revolted Shakspeare because they
usually have more chances to wash. It was
terribly hard to be clean in England at
the beginning of the nineteenth century.
The London poor could only get water from
street standpipes in buckets at fixed hours.
Most people in Castlereagh’s position fol-
lowed the practice of the Ancient Jews who
obeyed the Halachist by washing their
hands as far as the wrists before eating.
There was not a bathroom in Mayfair, or
in any of the great country houses. It
may be said that the upper-class English-
man had his tub. On all the contemporary
evidence he rarely used it. Farington
(“Diary,” Vol. I, 1793-1802) mentions that
Topham Beauclerk, the wit and man of
fashion, was habitually verminous. So were
many members of White’s and Brooks’. Fox,
during the whole time he lived at St. Anne’s
Hill with Mrs. Armstead, never had a bath.
Great ladies such as Lord Cowper’s beautiful
widow, who at 53 married Lord Palmerston,
“took one bath a year.” She had hers “in
midsummer at her country home, and spent
the day in bed afterwards.”
The French were much less dirty.
Napoleon’s passion for hot baths scented
with eau-de-Cologne is referred to by De
Montholon and other nineteenth-century
memoir-writers, and English lampooners used
to cite it as a proof of his degeneracy.
Gautier’s “Fortunio,” which deals with
Parisian society in the first years of the
nineteenth century, has a striking picture of
the heroine’s bathroom. At this time there
were no bathrooms in any English royal
palace, or in any Oxford or Cambridge
college.
Why any nation should pride itself on
being “well-tubbed” is a mystery, seeing
that all the most virile races have been
otherwise. The Romans in decline, during
the sensationally vicious age between the
appearance of the Antonines and the con-
version of the empire to Christianity, were
the best-tubbed people the world has ever
known. Diocletian’s thermae held 3000, and
Caracalla’s 1600. Everybody bathed in these
luxurious resorts, where hot water flowed
through silver spouts from walls of green
Numidian marble—patricians three and
four times a day, and slaves not less than
once. For every gallon of water which
modem Rome uses, five were used in
Trojan’s day. Wherever the golden eagles
arrived—in Milan, Thermopylae, Bath—
thermae followed as automatically as race-
courses now follow the Union Jack. This
cleanliness was invariably accompanied by
ungodliness. Tacitus was never tired of
comparing the chastity of the barbarian
women with “the dissolute conduct of the
Roman ladies.” Tertullian remarks (“De
Spectaculis”) that bathing was one of the
first Pagan habits which the Early Fathers
set out to eradicate. Unfortunately for the
Empire, they started too late. It was over-
run by Goths, Visigoths, Huns and Vandals
who had always abhorred washing.
The Americans are the Romans of the
modern world. To meet their requirements,
as tourists, England and the Continent are
spending millions sterling every year on
bath-a-room hotels, bath-a-cabin liners,
central heating, hot-water services and
Americanised barbers’ shops. Also, judging
by their movies and crime statistics, these
well-washed, massaged and manicured
people are much nearer spiritually to ancient
Rome than they are to law-abiding England,
which, outside a little class of luxury-lovers,
is still notably bath-shy. Things have come
easy for the Americans up to now. It
remains to be seen how they will respond
when faced with a genuine fight for exist-
ence. In the past, ultimate victory has
always rested with the unwashed.
JOHN DALLEY.
A Satchel of Books
Hidden Doors, by Neil M. Gunn (the Por-
poise Press). Short stories which have
appeared in the CORN hilt, and leading Scot-
tish magazines. They are full of Celtic
gloom and irony, and there is striking power
in some of the sea yarns.
Windfall’s Eve, by E. V. Eucas (Methuen).
Will appeal to those who like the kindly
vicarage humor in which Eucas specialises.
The elderly museum official who wins a Cal-
cutta sweep is a little too saintly to be
true, and some of the jokes which he and
his friends make have a lamplike smell, but,
take it for all in all, the story is what he
calls it, “an entertainment” —and a good one.
Inter-Ocean (Kolff, Batavia). This
monthly, published in Java, is a credit to
Dutch perspicacity. Beautifully printed and
lavishly illustrated, it is propaganda, but
propaganda on a high level. Every branch of
European activity in the Dutch East Indies
is represented as well as the native culture.
Australia and all other countries bordering
on the Pacific come in for frequent mention.
It would do no harm for this country to
have such a window looking out on its own
and others’ tropics.
The Foreigner in the Family (Hogarth
Press). Wilfrid Benson, in order to estab-
lish his thesis that a French husband is
likely to be misunderstood by his English
wife’s middle-class relations, makes the well-
bred Robert de Boucourt —one who has been
at an English University and a Eondon
Embassy, who was with an English regi-
ment during the war, and who claims to
“know the English as well as any foreigner
except the .Tews” —do incredible things. The
imbecile way in which he compromises him-
self with the housemaid Mary is particularly
hard to swallow. Still, this writer has a well-
developed critical faculty, and his sketches
of the meaner English characters are done
with much wit and malice.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability 'is undertaken re contributions vo ui -
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be return ed unless stamps accompany .
C.H.D.: Well, there’s one thing certain.
You didn’t write Shakspeare... .K.H.: Throws no
new light P.L.M.: Sonnet has a lean and hungry
100 k... .Sekrots: Joined the majority... .J.D.: They
shouldn’t have omitted “Horsey”... .E.D.: Oh, well,
be dismal Y.R.: Refuse to give an opinion as
to whether anyone of 15 will ever be a poet. Only
prophet on the premises is the sporting man....
W’.C.: “Cavatinas sweet as erst” is a heavy burden
to put on those little birds... .Ground F.: Ah, a
good deed:—
The cat had to give birth to her young,
So climbed up behind the grate,
And there soon rose their natal song
In that blackness as dark as hate.
The house it was empty, and so
There was nothing else for the burglar to do
But to help them out of that blackness of hate
By using his jemmy to break down the grate.
... .Iona: You’ve strayed a long way from home....
Invernis: A fair thought, but it’s badly handled....
Risus: Both catch the post.... Coutre: Only matter
that has not been published. Verse idea thin....
K.C.8.: Longings in rhyme for the return of the
“good old days” won’t bring ’em back... .E.P.:
Writing about what you’d like to sing about is a
weak substitute for verse... .G.L.: No space for ode
“that might do as an ad. for the mountains”....
P.C.: Moth and flame theme is in need of a rest
N.W.: No bananas to-day... .0.E.W.: Just stadium
stuff... .L.G.: Same old snake... .R.J.N.: Very
amateurish; style jerky and unformed. .. .E.P.M.:
Not far 0ff....G.W.: Major left to the lady who
“had experience with husbands before, having buried
one”... .D.L.: Both umbrella and storm washed out.
. ...P.J.8.: Can’t seize “The Skirts of Opportunity.”
K.A.R.: Sympathetic but not suitable....
Chelsus: Topical verse must be itself interesting;
it isn’t enough for the peg it’s hung on to be interest-
ing.... E.L.: Read it, then understood the big ques-
tion mark at the foot M.P.: Pome upon which
you “worked hard” doesn’t suit, though it’s miles
better than the usual stuff that was “just dashed
off in an idle moment”.... J.A.P.: Couldn’t get a
kick out of it J. Esse: Thought moves too heavily.
... .A.A.8.: Pretty dry cocoanuts... .Laudot: Nothing
in “Spite” Rapassi: Don’t fancy it, but you have
an eye for local color that might serve you well in
prose C.0.R.: All right for their original place
J.M.: Reads like an application for a pen-friend
El Dorado: Dunno about the “el,” but the rest
sounds like flattery P.S.: Poor script Praifer
Rayne: “Lay of the Liquid Asset” doesn’t fetch a
song J. 8.: Even that parody fails to shift Clancy
from our affections... .Jimmy F.: Lack of space
keeps it out of this column E.F.C.: Thin....
Poh: “The Old Horse” sent to the Zoo.... Henri
Neuf: Your muse must have been having a day off.
Rhodes: Send apologies to Chesterton direct.
It might be one way of getting him to visit Aus-
tralia F.S.M.: That epic prevented us from
backing a good thing C.A.: It was originally
published as “Patrol” and is now called “The
Lost Patrol.” Very good G.M.C.: Don’t fancy
that lot, but would like to hear from you again.. ..
8.J.: No space here for abstract nothings. Articles
must have a positive trend... .8.H.H.: Don't like
“Beside the Dried-up River Mehi” so well as the
accompanying note, “Since writing, the river has teen
flood-filled for the first time for years” L3LW
Private-collection verse B.B.: ‘Shnne’ failed to
™ a donation.. R. 1.: Have to add the P ....
MA.T.: Slight and rather bumpy... .Station H.
“The Ringer ’ rings true, but the verse isn t up to
scratch... .L.R.B : Rhyme scheme renders it mono-
tonous... .R. 0.: Must have been a pretty tame affair
> y° ur verse tells the truth about it.. Evelynn:
C«° on; but don’t moralise.... Hume R.: Yes, P. J.
Moloney, now Minister of Markets, was a Labor
member when the compulsory-training system was
...... . JB
introduced by proclamation, but Brennan wasn t.
The present Attorney-General came in at a by-election
on February 8,1911.... W. Rights; Thanks; but
. ’ .. ... 6 . , .
tke c^ause *he N.SAA. Vagrancy Amen ment
to which The Bulletin objected has now been
altered by the substitution of “known prostitute”
for “female”... .Argue: Mustapha Kemal commanded
the 19th Division, the Turkish general reserve in
the Dardanelles area; he hurled the 57th Regiment
against the Australians and Maorilanders on Apn
25 and accompanied it himself. The Butish officia
historian states that the casualties at Anzac that
a y were 2000 on each side... .C.8.F.. o,
we’ve got no objection on account °f his mixe
parentage. We remember that the great C O. King-
ston’s family was partly Spanish... .8.8.8.. Just
pleasant burble; not even a comma misplaced...'
Brim: Much obliged. “Paradise Plumes is a
good yarn; but we are not quarrelling with the
judges’ decision.... Topar : Too tangled ; and thats
probably just darn carelessness.. ..C.A.G-O. . uc
quantities of gore S.S.S.: Left dieaming in
“ the saffron silence”... .R.H. : The Bluff of ate
is dead against you. ...M.W.S.: A movie a
doesn’t move u 5.... J.E.S.: No fisi to iy--..
Petronella: A blend of eroticism and disease. .. .
T. 5.8.: Sorry, cant use historical sketch... .J.ILL .
Cup starter not a winner... .A.M.C.U.: Not here,
but you might place it elsewhere M.C.: Col. Artnur
Lynch’s address is 80 Antrim Mansions Haverstock
Hill, London, N.W.3 D H.E.: A first edition ot
Conrad’s “Nigger of the Naieissus is worth los
Hardy’s “Well Beloved (155.) an d A Gioup of
Noble Dames” (155.) ; Douglas s South Wind
( £2), and Galsworthy s Silver Spoon (10s.).
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
“ ~ . ,
A.IL : An early-Victorian gag... .E.V.H : Evidences
a sense of design, but very uneven as yet....J.V.L
One glance at the overseer s right thigh was enough,
.... W-F-: Oswald Pryorgot in ahead of you. .. ,UL :
(Rhodesia): Not a color m it....8.G.. Couit-
martialled the and drummed em 0ut....
E T Q.: About 20 fathoms below the maik. ...
M.N.8.: No stall for the pi lze milker S.A..
Spruiker’s a boomerang .V.E.: Blow your geo-
metrical puzzles!... .G.H. : No use for gags trans-
bated from the Scandinavian.. . .L.D. : Keep em at
home till they get more meat on their bones.
C.J.P.: Matron who confused “illiterate” with
“illegitimate’ is an old acquaintance .h.P . Dads
Christmas dinner grace is too lurid... .D.E.. It
didn’t whet our appetite for more.


r


The Bulletin
Vol. 50, —No. 2596.
November 13. 1929.
THE RACE OF THE YEAR.
“Commenting on the report that textile manufacturers at Roubaix were making a product which resembled perfectly natural crude wool, Dr. A. C. D. Rivett
said the outstanding necessity in the wool industry of Australia is to reduce the cost of production by eliminating losses due to disease and to pests, by improving
pastures, and by introducing cheap supplementary feeding during the dry months to enable the carrying capacity of the land to be maintained throughout the year.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
‘‘Australia for the While Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
21-b George Street, Sydney; Box 252188.
Victoria : lU r 2O Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westiui.ia : S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 86 Southampton Street, Strand, T V.C.2.
Regent 579.1.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to ant address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 is.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, 7 s.
To anv address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdomjoz. to 10oz., lid.;
each additional .)oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: J/OZ. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES . . 2, 5
THE BULLETIN NOVEL COMPETITION . . 2
“HOP” OF THE BULLETIN—
By his daughter (illustrated by Low).. 2
IS CLEANLINESS A SIGN OF DEGEN-
ERACY ?by John Dailey . . . . . . 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS .. ..5
THE FRONT PAGE, BY LEASON 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
The Best Thing to Back .8
Substitutes for Work—Will Paper
Money Do? . 8
A GOVERNMENT WITHOUT A POLICY . . 8
WHY WORK WHILE FATHER CAN ? . . 8
A SHORT CUT TO MURDER 8
POLICE EVIDENCE 9
A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL . . \. . . 9
POLITICAL POINTS . . .. . . • • 10
“The Anglo-Saxophone”—
A drawing by Percival .. .. .. 10
POVERTY POINT 11
A CARTOON BY SOORFIELD 11
PERSONAL (with caricatures of new Chief
Commissioner Cleary and others) . . 13
SOCIETY (with drawings) 14, 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..16
AN EARLY-AUSTRALIA SHOW .. ..10
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC .. . . . 18
COLONIAL SUGAR 18
UNITED INSURANCE 18
PERMANENT TRUSTEES 20
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 23, 25
Free Service Department . 26
MAN ON THE LAND .. !. 28, 32
SUB. CLOVER CULTIVATION . . . • 28
YOUNG GRASS AND NUTRITION . . . . 28
HERD TESTING 28, 32
SUMMER PESTS OF POULTRY . . - • 32
SMOKE-OH . . 34
PEN AND PICTURE 37
NEWEST TALKIES .37
A NORMAN LINDSAY SHOW 37
SPORTING (illustrated) 39, 41, 42
MELBOURNE CUP MEETING . . . . 39
MOOREFIELD RACES 39
BUSINESS, ROBBERY .. v 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER .. .. ..45
WHAT’S TO BE WORN ? .. . . .45
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE . . .. . . 48
THE CUP CARNIVAL . . 48
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 50
“Merrv Christmas!” •• •• 47, 51, 52
TWO COMPLETE SHORT STORIES—
“Not Guilty”—
By Captain Gilbert C. Fry .. 55, 57
“LIFE,” by F. Stewart Gee .. .. .. 58
VERSE. —By Roderic Quinn, K. Dalziel.. 52, 58
Next Week.
J. H. M. Abbott writes a story based on happen-
ings in the days when Captain Cook discovered
and sailed into Botany Bay. In developing his
story Mr. Abbott draws a remarkable picture, not
only of life aboard Captain Cook’s vessel of dis-
covery, but also of Botany Bay and its surround-
ings at the time.
A second story is set in the Philippines and gives
a graphic description of a flight up one of their
dark waterways.
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1929.
THE BEST THING TO BACK.
In the N. S. Wales Assembly the other day
a Labor member drew attention to the
report that a Broken Hill mine had made
the astonishing profit of half a million in
the past year. There was an obvious sug-
gestion that no co. ought to be as rich as
this, and that steps should be taken to
relieve it of some of its wealth.
The case is an interesting one. The co.
in question owns the North Broken Hill
mine. This was among the first taken up
on the field; but after being worked for a
few years without success it was on the
market for anybody to buy. For a long
time it lay idle; nobody wanted it. Then
a syndicate decided to chance a few thou-
sands, spent a good many more thousands,
and, going deep, found the lode from which
it is now making all this money. The
return which those early shareholders are
getting is certainly prodigious; but what
the miner has to consider is whether if there
were not these occasional prodigious prizes
there would be any mining at all. Scat-
tered over the Barrier silver-field are
a thousand or more shafts of one sort and
another. Miners have had to be employed
to sink them; but from not more than a
dozen of the properties has a penny of
profit been taken; and not more than eight
mines on the whole field have earned more
than has been put into them. The suc-
cesses are so few that it takes more than
an ordinary prize to make the financial
support of mining worth while.
Nevertheless, there always is a disposi-
tion among a very large section in Aus-
tralia to look menacingly at the occasional
large profits which any sort of industry can
make. A man can put his money on a
horse or a dog, and if he wins he is only
envied: nobody suggests that he doesn’t
deserve eveiy penny of it. But if he risks
his money in something that incidentally
gives a great deal of employment, and
which, if successful, will open up more
avenues of employment, he is viewed with
a large amount of disfavor, and is likely
to be quoted as a horrible example of
blood-sucking.
The sooner we get out of this habit the
better. Nobody gains half so much as
the workers by the phenomenal success of
an industrial enterprise. See what the
phenomenal success of half a dozen of these
Broken Hill mines has led to. It gave such
a fillip to prospecting that first Mt. Lyell
was discovered and then Coolgardie. Cool-
gardie led on to the Golden Mile and a
score of other Westralian fields. Chillagoe
and a dozen more North Queensland fields
were explored. To serve the smelters the
Australian coke industry was established.
To use up its surplus iron ores the Broken
Hill Prop, set up the Newcastle steel works.
To use up their product, wire, nail, bolt
and other works sprang up around them.
The Tasmanian Electrolytic zinc works
followed to use up the waste from the
Broken Hill lead mills. Out of other waste
products came the feed for half a dozen
superphosphate factories; and their in-
fluence on the wheat and wool production
of Australia is incalculable. So the ball
goes on growing. Every one of these in-
dustries is a great employer of labor. And
at the back of them all were those half-
dozen successes at Broken Hill.
At the very moment when the Broken
Hill half-million was being snarled over,
the Government in Queensland was wonder-
ing how to get capital to explore the oil
possibilities of that State. Of course it is
greatly to be desired that if oil is struck it
should belong to Australia and be wholly
under Australian control; if not Australian,
then at least British. But a thorough pros-
pecting of Queensland would cost some
millions; and the Australian prospecting
co. that can get £50,000 is exceptionally
fortunate. Two years ago, with the Labor
Government then in office, it was proposed
to loosen up the provisions excluding non-
British people from participation in the
Queensland ' oil search. The Bulletin
begged for time—it asked that Australia
should be given another chance. To-day it
is doubtful whether capital anything
like adequate for the search can be got in
Australia. Yet one half of the money with
which Phar Lap was backed to win the
Melbourne Cup would complete a very fair
oil survey of the State. And a flowing
oil-well in Queensland would pay such a
dividend as no racehorse ever paid, or ever
will pay.
Instead of looking with a jaundiced eye
at the North Broken Hill’s half-million, the
intelligent worker should thank his . gods
that Australia can now and then produce
such things. Instead of considering how
he can cut the figures down it will pay
him handsomely to try to enlarge them.
He can get nothing out of encouraging men
to back a horse to win the Melbourne Cup.
He can get a great deal by encouraging
men to back some new industry. In this
respect America can teach us something.
For every dollar that Uncle Sam puts on
a horse, Australia, with one-twentieth the
population, puts probably ten. Sam isn’t
encouraged to back horses. He is en-
couraged to back industry. And if in doing
it he makes a million, he is regarded in
the vast majority of cases as somebody who
deserves well of his country. Henry Ford,
for example.
SUBSTITUTES FOR WORK.
The Scullins want revenue badly to pay
the baby bonus and for other purposes, and
the news has been broken that one probable
way of getting it is by an increased issue
of paper money. Much has been promised
by the Prime Minister and others, in a
general way, about “re-organising” the Com-
monwealth Bank; so active meddling with
the note-issue department seems more than
probable, even if no decision has been
formally arrived at.
The gentleman who set out the alleged
paper-money policy of the Government
declared that the national poverty had been
aggravated by the action of its Bruce-Page
predecessors in “withdrawing from circula-
tion” notes to the value of several million
pounds. Whether they bought these notes
back from the holders, or stole them back,
isn’t stated; but it appears that it is now
a duty to reverse the process. At very
recent advices the notes in the hands of the
public represented nearly £4 per inhabitant,
including the baby. It isn’t alleged that
anybody has had trouble, by reason of
scarcity, in getting the notes he lawfully
earned, and has had to take cows instead.
The difficulty lies rather in finding
work at which to earn the notes. Nor is it
seriously alleged that any solvent employer
presenting a sound cheque at his bank has
difficulty in getting notes with which to
pay his employee, when he can afford to
have one. The banks at the same recent
date had about £18,000,000 in notes to
meet sound cheques with, and could have
got more if wanted. The public, by chance
or on fixed purpose, held more notes in
circulation last June, when the Bruce-Page
regime neared its end, than when it began
in 1923, and more than w 7 ere going round in
1918, 1919, 1920, 1921 or 1922; which doesn’t
square with the statement that Bruce was
in the habit of tearing the people’s paper
money from them.
An obstacle in the way of increased note
circulation is the vast number of people
who are without any notes, and have great
anxiety about silver. A way of increasing
the circulation would be for the Government
to take control out of the hands of the
Commonwealth Bank, and print millions
more paper money, and distribute it among
these citizens and citizenesses. But the gift
currency wouldn’t stay in circulation. It
would quickly vanish into the hands of
grocers, betting shops, butchers, bakers and
others, who would put it hurriedly into the
banks for various reasons, one being the
prevalence of crime, of which poverty is a
contributing cause. All that the Govern-
ment could do in that case would be to
print a few millions more—and so on in-
definitely.
If the Ministry found employment for the
unfortunate in permanent self-supporting
industry, and if -lack of paper currency then
made a difficulty on pay day, the Com-
monwealth Bank would print as much as
was required without Ministerial direction
or interference. It has never failed in this
direction. But when in 1919 there were
£20,000,000 worth of notes in actual use
and £35,000,000 lying idle in the banks for
lack of customers, the folk who manu-
factured currency naturally felt that the
position savored of the ridiculous.
Supposing a large quantity of new notes
were somehow put out, by presenting them
to the indigent or otherwise, in order to
amend the insufficient circulation, the only
feasible way of keeping it amended would
be to make them of some variety that the
banks wouldn’t take. They might be in-
scribed “No Use to Banks,” and made of
a specially loathsome and repellent design,
which would be a warning in itself even
to the lower animals. Unfortunately other
people might also refuse to take them, and
if ordered to do so under pain of imprison-
ment, some difficulty not foreseen by the
inflation party would arise. It always does.
The spokesman of the Ministry put it
that the Scullins “proposed to make greater
use of the note issue, which would be backed
by the national credit.” All Government
notes are backed by the national credit, even
when the value has fallen as low as 20
paper pounds to the metal sixpence. An-
other formula is that their full nominal
value is “secured on all the public and
private assets of the country.” But this is
even more deceptive. The time when a
man is specially liable to want to cash his
money is when he is leaving the country.
He desires solid assets of world-wide value
to take with him so that he can start afresh,
not something that he will throw overboard
on the way. But if he tried to seize the
treasures of the Art Gallery, which are
public, or Billy Hughes’s furniture, which
is private, and take them aboard ship by
way of accepting the guarantee seriously,
things would certainly happen to him.
Many substitutes have been proposed for
honest and intelligent work, and the infla-
tion of the currency is one of the common-
est. Still it isn’t the oldest, because it
doesn’t go back further than the invention
of printing.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Government without a Policy.
One great trouble with our present system
of government is that the Opposition
doesn’t really make a serious study ot the
nation’s problems. All it does seriously
study is the art of capturing votes, thus
it comes about that, though the Scullidores
are in power, no more than two or three
of them have thus far shown even the
faint beginnings of any real qualification
or training for their jobs.
A conspicuous example of the unqualified
and unready section is the Treasurer. He
was campaign director in N. S. Wales during
the election, and it was he whose manceuv-
ring led up to Bruce’s ill-timed and un-
fortunate appeal to the country. In those
capacities Theodore showed very great
ability—of a kind. Reviewing now his pro-
mises and undertakings, it is quite obvious
that he was willing to offer the moon to the
electors; and, moreover, he .was able to
persuade a majority not only that he could
give them the moon, but that the moon
was the very thing they wanted; also the
very thing the Government was being in-
stigated by the employers to withhold from
the great toiling masses.
Now, when he is up against the real
problems, all his training as a public deluder
goes for nothing. So we have the most
pitiable floundering, while kite after kite is
sent up to see how the wind blows—to
ascertain how much the public will swallow,
or whether this scheme or that is con-
sidered a trifle better or a great deal worse
than its predecessor. It all shows com-
plete absence of study and the Govern-
ment’s utter innocence of anything in the
nature of a working policy.
The Paviors.
“ ‘Sir,’ said Doctor Johnson, ‘Hell is paved with
good intentions.’ ”
The way of the altruist is apt to be hard—
for those who have to follow on the path
he has cut. When to altruism is added
pacifism, the legendary road to Dublin is
a tan track by comparison.
On the last occasion a well-meaning
British Government assumed an attitude of
indulgent consent toward the Egyptian
demand for self-determination, the trouble
mercifully resolved itself into . a mere
butchery of some five score Europeans by
the enlightened fellaheen and their urban
supporters. Undeterred, the MacDonald
Government has met the latest demands
of the Egyptians in a spirit of amiable
acquiescence. The next phase has been
postponed until a general election restores
Parliamentary government to the fellah
and his exploiters. That the elected Par-
liament will insist on full independence and
control of everything, including the vital
Suez Canal, is a certainty. Even Mac-
Donald’s left wing may be expected to jib
at going as far as that. Then the pot will
boil over.
With this trouble brewing, the altruists
have deemed the time opportune to permit
a high Indian official to issue a statement
regarding the grant of self-determination
to India. It is true that the Government
has asserted that the official statement is
nothing more than a re-affirmation of a
policy hinted at in 1917. But the pious
Hindu, who supplies most of the agitation
for self-determination, is not taking it in
that light, and may be expected to show
his teeth when informed that the dawn of
his millennium is not yet.
As further evidence of amiable idealism
at a time when Eastern Asia is an
armed camp, the British Government is
considering the abandonment of the Singa-
pore Base, construction on which has
already been suspended. It only remained
for the Scullin Ministry to put the roof
on this altruistic house of cards by abolish-
ing compulsory military training; and this,
of course, has been done. The edifice would
be harmless enough in itself were it not
that its inevitable collapse must be as
inevitably followed by consequences which
those who are not altruists will have to
face.
*
Why Work while Father Can?
Though the party which Scullin has the
joy of leading has proclaimed from its
beginnings that the White Australia policy
is its own dearest child, the Government’s
performances so far don’t indicate much
affection for the child. It has abolished
Australia’s only local means of defence, and
has backed down on the Migration Agree-
ment, which, with all its defects and difficul-
ties, was designed to provide Australia with
a white population reasonably proportioned
to its capacity. The combined effect of
these measures is this: while we are going
to leave our defence entirely in the hands
of John Bull, who has his own embarrass-
ments, we are also going to refuse to offer
him the only practical help that we can give
in the solution of his most pressing prob-
lem—o ver-popu 1 ati on.
It is hard to see why John should be
willing to go on for ever defending a White
Australia which won’t give itself a reason-
able white population, even if the British
taxpayers, who foot the bill, are able to go
on footing it. But if they are able, how
long are they going to be willing? White
Australia isn’t an article of faith except
in Australia, as Scullin will find soon
enough if he goes abroad; and if he thinks
the League of Nations will keep Australia
white, he had better remember that the
only nation which draws the color line
isn’t in the League.
But presumably Scullin relies on Father,
Migration helps Father; but Scullin doesn’t
want migration—he only wants Father to
go on keeping other people out. “Why
work while the old man can?” is all right
until Father decides that his health doesn’t
benefit materially by the youngsters’ idle-
ness.
♦
A Short Cut to Murder.
One of those concerned in the fatuous
suspension of compulsory military service
has trotted out as an excuse the shopworn
tag that the A.I.F. showed how quickly
untrained men could be turned into first-
class battle-troops. The A.LF. showed
nothing of the sort. The first Division
contained an overwhelming majority of
trainees and C.M.F. men, and it is doubtful
if it included an officer who had not had
experience and training in the same forces.
Of the non-coms., especially the senior men,
many had given most of their lives to
professional soldiering. Yet this force, after
four months of the most intensive training
in Egypt, landed on Gallipoli not nearly
equipped for its exacting task. More
training followed in Egypt after the Evacu-
ation, and still more in Britain and France.
By the time the troops were launched
at the Germans at Fleurbaix, nearly tvvo
years after mobilisation, they were still
short of the standard they were later to
attain, a standard dearly bought in the front
line at the cost of countless wasted lives.
Irl view of the experience of these men,
it is not pleasant to think of what is likely
to happen to the hastily raised rabble on
which Scullin and his associates propose
to rely, especially if the enemy refuses to
grant this country the comparatively


THE DOCTOR’S DILEMMA.
“The Bavin Government (N.S.W.), though understood to be satisfied that costs of production must be reduced, finds itself hampered in its efforts at reform by the
willingness of the Lang (Labor) section to promise anything at all in return for office.”
DR. BAVIN: “If I don’t cut down your liquor you’ll die, and if I do cut it down they’ll hand you over to Lang, the Faith-healer.”
lengthy period for training and preparation
which the might of the British Navy made
possible for the A.I.F.
*
Elective Ministries.
Dear Bulletin, —Let me remind “Sol. M.”
(B. 30/10/’29) that the calm of a cow is all
to the advantage of those who utilise her
services. And if the affairs of the Swiss are
carried on with a cowlike calm, that is no
indication of inefficiency.
“Sol” quotes Bryce in support of his
objection to Swiss politics. They are both
at fault in taking the superficial view.
Parliamentary positions in Switzerland, in
spite of the meagre pay, never go begging,
And if a member is returned time after
time without a contest, that simply means
he is regarded as satisfactory. Turning
down a good man rarely happens in Switzer-
land, but the present system in Australia
lends itself to that sort of thing—with
deadly results to our national welfare.
Let me state categorically (and finally)
the advantages that will result from the
change I advQpate:—
Elective Ministries will restore the su-
premacy of Parliament, which has been largely
abrogated by the tyrannical and unlawful
usurpation of control by Cabinet.
It will put an end to the party struggles
for the Treasury bench, the real issue under-
lying debate at'present, and the reason why
the business of Parliament is hopelessly in
arrears.
There will be no interruption of Parlia-
mentary work by political crises, or no pre-
mature termination of the full period by
an election engineered for party purposes.
It will not be possible to dragoon members
by threats of sending them to the country.
' Each Minister will be individually respon-
sible for Ms own department and for that
only. There will be no sacking of a whole
team whether good or bad, and a furious
raid by another lot on the fat billets.
The business of the country w T ill be con-
ducted on business-like principles approxi-
mating to the methods practised by well-
managed private concerns, the prestige _ of
Parliament will be restored, and' by its im-
proved stability and continuity of policy
trade and industry will benefit.
All this has been achieved in Switzerland,
and I see’no reason why as good results
should not follow the adoption of Elective
Ministries in Australia.—Yours, etc., J. M.
Fowler.
4
What Should Our Gauge Be?
Contributions pour in on this subject.
The Bulletin condenses a couple:—
“Woodheath” : There is a great deal to
recommend the 3ft. Gin. gauge. Australians
should visit Japan to see a wonderful
example of 3ft. 6in. railways. The trains
run much more smoothly than those in N. S.
Wales, and they travel just as quickly and
are always on time. It seems to be a ques-
tion of a perfect permanent way.
“5.F.8.”: Not only is the 3ft. 6in. gauge
the cheapest solution of our railway problem,
but it is the best. It would bring Tas. into
line with the mainland States, and this would-
make possible the establishment of a train-
ferry service between the Speck and Vic.
Train ferries are widely used in other parts
of the world over quite long distances ; the
Key West (Fla.) and Havana (Cuba), is
one of the most conspicuous examples. One
across the Bass Strait should certainly be
reckoned on. N.S.W., Vic. and Ta.s. appa-
rently, will comprise the chief industrial belt
of the Commonwealth, with Tas. well to the
fore owing to its plentiful supply of hydro-
electric power. With regard to speeds being
less on narrow gauge, better than 50 m.p.li.
is attained in S. Africa on 3ft. Gin.; also
these speeds are reached in Java on a metre
gauge, which is smaller still. For roominess
and comfort I have seen very little to beat
the first-class two-berth sleeping accommo-
dation on the Westralian lines.
♦
Thirty Thousand Unemployed.
There are said to be 30,000 unemployed on
the register in Victoria. The last quarterly
statistics, published on Federal authority
and based on information furnished by
trades-union officials, said that 10 per cent,
of unionists were out of work, with victims
of strikes and lockouts in addition. Tas-
mania was the worst sample, followed by
South Aus., N. S. Wales and Westralia,
while Victoria, with its alleged jobless
30,000, was the best but one. Small points
may be argued about the method of count-
ing, but the figures for April-May-June
were serious beyond any dispute.
The McPherson Government struck
defeat on a motion that it hadn’t done
enough for the distressed Mallee farmers,
but the general mass of out-of-works came
into the question as a matter of course.
And, as usual, the only suggestion (or,
rather, the furious demand) was for public
works, mostly road and sundries which yield
nothing, and railways which don’t yield
nearly enough. The money is to be pro-
vided, of course, out of loans. No one
dreams of any other way. At one time a
certain amount of public works construc-
tion was done out of revenue, and £7,301,101
worth of State railroad was actually con-
structed in that way, about four millions’
worth in Victoria, two millions’ worth in
South Australia and scraps elsewhere. But
that is a tale of the dim and partially
respectable past.
There is difficulty in deciding how much
would be required to “deal effectively with
the unemployed,” as well as with the dis-
tressed farmers who are not classed as un-
employed but who are said to be as badly
in need of assistance as anybody else.
Possibly £lOO,OOO per week, or £5,200,000 of
loan money per annum, would do something;
but it must be remembered that there are
unregistered as well as registered unem-
ployed in the case, and that public-relief
loan-works involve expense for material as
well as for wages, and the interest bill and
general losses on the finished undertakings
must be considered. In 1927-28 Victoria
spent almost exactly £8,500,000 of borrowed
funds, and if that left 30,000 people on
the idle list the theory is that it should have
spent more—perhaps £5,200,000 more.
But the signs are that, instead of the
little State being able to borrow £13,700,000
in a year, it may be fortunate to secure one-
third of that sum. Indeed, the position
promises to become worse all over Australia
unless the doctrine of more work, arid more
production without too much more..cost,
supersedes that of more lOU.
Police Evidence.
For many years —perhaps always—there has
been a section which has not had much
confidence in the police. Its grievance was
that “constables will swear anything to get
a conviction.” The people who said this
were, however, very few, because only the
very few came as accused persons into con-
tact with the police. Now, however, the
number of persons accused has been greatly
increased through breaches of traffic regula-
tions, and an entirely new class of offender
is making acquaintance with the police
and their methods.
Generally there seems to be not much
complaint anywhere about the behavior of
the police while on street-traffic jobs. They
are often rough-and-ready, but The Bulle-
tin gets few complaints about either their
intelligence or their fairness. But there is
an absurd disposition in some cities and in
many country towns to “malce a case” out
of every fracture of every known and
unknown regulation. Of course gross delib-
erate breaches of laws and by-laws ought
to be punished; but traffic regulations are,
after all, only designed to secure the public
safety, and when it is the most obvious
thing in the world that the public safety
is not jeopardised, discretion ought to be
used. In Sydney, at any rate, it is com-
monly used by the Traffic Department after
inquiry into the record and general behav-
ior of the alleged offender; but elsewhere
there seems to be a mania for building up
cases for the Traffic Court. Actually, in
some instances, it is regarded as' a matter
for civic pride that that court is so well
occupied!
But the most common complaint is of
the proceedings within the courts. And it
is in this regard that State Attorneys-Gen-
eral ought to have an earnest word with
their police heads. Once on the witness
stand the constable is far too prone to dis-
regard everything else but the necessity of
getting a conviction; and, because of that,
scores of men who believe they are not
guilty regard it as waste of time to make
a defence. This brings not only courts but
the law into wider disrespect and disrepute;
and few more undesirable things than that
can happen. Once more, therefore, police
heads ought to instruct those under them
that a constable can do no greater wrong to
the public than to give his evidence with
a single eye to a conviction, withholding
anything that might be to the accused per-
son’s advantage or that might throw doubt
upon his guilt.
4
The Red Marauder.
“Medicurse”: A recent-medical conference
on preventive medicine brought some in-
teresting light upon the question of v.d. in
Australia. The reasons advanced for the
failure to .eradicate this preventable disease
are (1) lack of interest by the press,
(2) insufficient teaching by medical schools,
(3) lack of notification by medical practi-
tioners, (4) treatment by plausible quacks
and some pharmacists and (5) insufficient
public teaching on the subject. It seemed
to be unanimously held that the disease
cannot be wiped out by legislation, but
can be by publicity, supported of course by
the proper medical facilities.
It was estimated that in Greater Sydney
25,000 new cases occur each year and in
Newcastle 2000. Among the cases notified
50 p.c. give false names and addresses.
Figures in Victoria, W.A. and Tasmania
are lower than in N.S.W., probably because
of the smaller and more easily controlled
population. The “amateur” prostitute was
held to be responsible to a tremendous
extent for the spread of the disease, and
it is probable that she is less harmful in
the smaller populations.
Among the proposed activities are: (1)
Lectureship in v.d. at medical schools. (2)
post-graduate study in v.d., (3) intensive
publicity as to manner of cure and probable
effects of non-cure, (4) testing of all preg-
nant women, (5) insurance scheme for all
patients thrown out of employment by their
disease. While this last might lead to un-
scrupulous persons contracting the disease
to gain insurance money, still it is the
utopian requirement.
The conference considered licensing of
brothels to be ineffective, judging by the
results of other countries.
Publicity, publicity and again publicity is
the supreme requirement. For the disease
is a disease mainly of ignorance, its spread
is a matter mainly of ignorance and its
non-cure is a matter almost wholly of
ignorance combined with credulity.
—__ «
“F.S.”: Before it is too late a committee
or something should inquire into the sculp-
ture with which it is proposed to decorate
the National War Memorial in Melbourne.
Paul Montford, within certain narrow
bounds a competent enough sculptor, has
been commissioned to do most of the titanic
job, and a specimen on view at the Vic.
Artists’ Society’s latest show is pretentious
and tawdry. Apparently the people respon-
sible for the Shrine are making the same
mistake as the Civic Fathers made over the
interior embellishments of the Town Hall
concert chamber. In Europe, great national
memorials are allowed to grow like living
organisms. They are still adding to the Paris
Pantheon. A vast project like the Shrine is
not one to hand to a single artist as if
it were a case of the interior decoration
of a bungalow.
♦
The Bulletin regrets to report the death of
Samuel Fuller Sheerer in Brisbane last
week. When William Macleod retired from
the proprietary of this paper, those who
remained in charge looked around for a'
man whose success and personal qualities
would justify them in inviting him to assist
in perfecting the sales organisation of the
company. Mr. Sheffer stood out as an
organiser of such exceptional ability that his
co-operation was sought; and for the first
time in the history of the company an out-
sider was admitted to the board. The results
fully justified the experiment; for while he
rendered very valuable service in assisting
to modernise the business organisation, no
old inhabitant of the office could have been
more imbued with The Bulletin’s spirit
and traditions or more eager to maintain
them.


EAST-WEST AIR RACE
H. C. MILLER, winner of the premier
event, £l,OOO Handicap, used ordinary
SHELL MOTOR SPIRIT
as supplied to motorists through our Sealed Kerbside Pumps.
'sr
GW
’An 6
T G
\G &
TOW
Perth Centennial
Aerial Derby
Ist, 2nd and 3rd
all used
SHELL-BENZOL
and SHELL OIL
S 3.
S 3
re
SHELL MOTOR SPIRIT
S-630
POLITICAL
POINTS
Treasurer Theodore has put a £10,000,000
loan on the Australian market. Interest is
5J per ..cent, and the price £9B per £100;
repayment in 1934. How quick the descent
has been can be judged by the fact that the
present loan will cost 9s. 4d. more p.c.
p.a. than one floated only in February last.
Moreover, this loan is underwritten by
the banks, while the last one got through
without that expense. It is thought that
interest will go down, and there is a desire
to take advantage of the fall as soon as pos-
sible ; hence the short date. But an alarming
quantity of State and Federal loans falls due
in 1930-31-32-33-34-35-36, which threatens to
be a very wild period in Australian history,
and interest appears as likely to rise as to
fall.
The new £10,000,000 loan won’t help to
meet liabilities in London and New York.
Though some millions of the Commonwealth
Bank gold reserve are being shipped there a
new overseas gold loan will be wanted when
that is used up, unless the situation improves.
Even with £10,000,000 .there will be need for
bitter economy as the term is understood
nowadays. Victoria alone asked for £8,000,000
from the Loan Council this year, and other
States performed similarly.
Labor is in, so up goes the income-tax!
It always follows, as the night the day. Yet
the Federal tax is already ss. in the £, with
8 p.c. added, on property income exceeding
£6500 and personal earnings exceeding £7600,
and N. S. Wales claps another ss. in the £
on £5501 and £7OOl respectively. It is a
crazy move to add to these burdens on indus-
try when there is so much unemployment,
but if the Labor Daily is to be believed no
other expedient has occurred to the victorious
Labor politicians. Those gentlemen are
short of ideas on subjects other than the
catching of votes.
Australia has to compete in the world’s
markets, and in its own to some extent, with
Canada and Argentina. Neither of these
countries follows the clumsy device of bump-
ing up the income-tax every time there is a
change of Government. Canada gets so
much revenue from other imposts (especially
a sales tax and taxes on trippers) that it
is doing away with the income-tax. And
Argentina has done without one for years.
The 1929 “Statesman’s Year Book,” dealing
with Argentina, says: “About 76 p.c. of the
revenue is obtained from import duties and
10 p.c. from direct taxation; there is no
income-tax.” What a tremendous advantage
this gives the Argentinan cattlemen, sheep-/
men and wheatgrowers over ours!
The usual story is told of the new Chief
Commissioner of N.S.W. Railways—that Mr.
Cleary has patriotically made large sacrifices
of salary to accept the position. It is about
time these business organisations of Govern-
ment ceased to ask men to make large or
any other sacrifices of salary. They are not
charities, they are businesses. On the very
day the new man was formally invited to
take this job, a deputation waited on the
Premier pointing out what an unfair com-
petitor the State is; and if the State puts
it to men that it is a patriotic duty to
accept less pay from the State than they can
command elsewhere, it is an unfair com-
petitor.
The two Victorian railwaymen who were
employed to report on the Queensland service
have sent in a few remarks. They say that
the higher officials have practically no power
to discharge inefficient workmen; that there
is lack of competent engineers to supervise, the
engineering branch having been starved ; that
there are not enough apprentices, while many
men are doing boys’ work; that holidays
are extra plentiful and day labor has been
overdone. When the union bosses object to
piecework, as they always do, it is proposed
that departmental managers should have
power to make agreements with groups of
employees separately. Inefficient machinery
and out-of-date appliances are dwelt upon,
but these are only part of the general down-
ward tendency.
A bill now before the Queensland Parlia-
ment restores to the Railway Commissioner
the power to sack men guilty of serious
offences, as recommended by the Victorian
expert's, and to make appointments and pro-
motions on merit. It is also provided that-
rebates and concessions will be restricted to
parties undertaking to give all their business
to the department—a slap at motor trans-
port.
' Victorians found nothing inspiring about
eitfier the manifesto of McPherson or the
policy speech of Hogan. Each was a rehash
of old programmes. The Macs and *the
Hogans are equally glib about “judicious ex-
penditure of loan money to minimise unem-
ployment” ; but loan money is hard to get, it
is seldom spent judiciously, and when it
runs out there are more out-of-works than
ever. Hogan talks about taking five Assembly
seats from the country and giving them to
the city; but that won’t promote prosperity.
Neither will Labor’s promise to abolish the
Uppish House fill empty stomachs. In any
case, the Landlords are not going to commit
constitutional suicide to oblige the man from
Warrenlieip.
In supporting Hughes and Marks last
month Federal Labor returned to the tactics
of 1910. At that election it commanded the
faithful to vote for Lyne in Hume and Wise
in Gippsland because they had refused to
follow Deakin in joining forces with Joe
Cook. Lyne and Wise got in, but three
years later they lost their seats, and Labor
lost the election. The moral is—what Hughes
and Theodore please.
Having scrapped the defence machine at
a day’s notice, the Scullidore Ministry threw
in a comforting assurance that the protec-
tion of the country will be looked after.
But there is no provision for any other form
of defence in the party’s programme, and
the Scullidores have mentioned none, and
any people who were in earnest would have
been likely to produce the new plan before
.saving tuppence by destroying the old one,
THE ANGLO-SAXOPHONE.
“Mr. Ramsay MacDonald has returned to England and speaks with enthusiasm of the multitude
of points on which he found himself in accord with Mr. Hoover.”
if only as an evidence of good faith and
to show their mental resources. So probably
the Scullidores aren't in earnest.
The sudden retirement of Mcnzies, M.L.C.,
and Kent Hughes, M.L.A., from the (Vic.)
McPherson Ministry because they objected
to further State advances to country freezing
works is being again explained and criticised
or, justified on the hustings. Since they
withdrew both have been candid rather
than cordial friends of the McPherson team.
Their outgoing did not create quite the stir
they seemed to have expected. One of their
constituents, a compatriot of Viscount Craig-
avon, summed up the position by saying “the
two bhoys were in such a divil of a hurry that
they depar-r-ted before they’d arroived.”
Menzies has come out for the Nunawading
Assembly seat; sitting-member Greenwood
has stood down in his favor. Extremist
though he is on the liquor question, Green-
wood was one of the few men in Parliament
who had a grip of finance—a grip obtained
through diligent study on the committee of
public accounts. And in a private matter
the man is acting up to his high principles;
he shouldered personally the losses of a
proprietary company with which he was
associated and is, by hard work as a minor
warehouseman, paying off the liabilities.
The Scullidores have decided to suspend
the issue of licenses to waterside workers,
as being a breach of the. union monopoly.
In explanation it is said that there are too
many applicants for work on the wharves,
which is doubtless true. There are too
many applicants for work in numerous lines
of business, and by disqualifying a selected
number of them there will always be more
room for the rest. The same effect would
be gained by hanging a number of them.
Westralia has had a queer sort of by-
election in Irwiu, a wheat-and-sheep consti-
tuency. Irwin is about to be struck off the
list of electoral districts, and the Assembly
is in the last week or so of its last .session ;
but, reckoning that the winner would have
a lien on one of the new divisions, three
Gockies and a Nationalist nominated. Harry
Maley, brother of the late member, and one
of Mitchell’s Ministers before that gentle-
man broke with the Cockies, was one of the
Agrarians.
After Makin, Government nominee for the
Speakership, had announced publicly that
the Scullidore Ministry proposed to raise
money by inflating the note issue, Treasurer
Theodore hastened to announce that the
matter hadn’t been decided. Some people
hailed this as a denial, but it wasn’t. A
denial would have been a declaration that the
Scullidores didn’t and wouldn’t dream of
inflating the paper-money issue. Of course
a matter like that shouldn't be decided. It
should decide itself.
N.S.W. Leg. Assembly had a holiday on
Tuesday because Treasurer Stevens was in
Melbourne on Loan Council business and
the Labor Opposition has refused to grant
pairs. This particular refusal was an
expression of Lang’s hatred for (1) Bavin,
(2) the Loan Council and (3) Theodore,
who is threatening his supremacy on the
A.L.P. executive. The Bavinshaw Govern-
ment welcomed the respite, though it pro-
fessed to be indignant. It is still struggling
to find a basic-wage-c Mm-child-endowment
formula that will enable alleged Nationalists
to save their seats.
The German Nationalist party recently
devised a bill for the repudiation of all
treaties and agreements entered into since
the war. The project was so utterly rash
that plenty of repudiationists shirked it,
but over 4,000.000 voters took the initiative,
for which there is constitutional provision,
and Parliament must consider the measure
seriously. Its rejection is considered cer-
tain as the commonest matter of prudence,
yet four million whole-hoggers think they
are ready to take the risk.
The N.S.W. Government will be unpopu-
lar with North Coast aborigines if it abol-
ishes family endowment. For upwards of a
year the subsidy for their numerous progeny
has provided the abos. with all the money
they needed for their simple wants, and the
prospect of returning to work fills them with
alarm. One little-known result of “Good
old Piddo’s” scheme was the abandonment
of settlements provided by the Aborigines
Protection Board, for the natives decided on
town life when they were assured of steady
incomes without work.
Marks, M.11.R., the ex-Nationalist who
got, and certainly earned, all the support
Scullin and Theodore could render, gave a
social the other night, and his friend and
duplicate Hughes said that the new Parlia-
ment is a wonderful one, and will do great
things. If Marks is the only Parliamen-
tarian who will give Hughes a social it is
kind of him to do it, but the spectacle of
one castaway mariner entertaining the other
on a raft has a flavor of the grotesque.
Restoration of the police strikers of 1923
will not be an issue of the Vic. Assembly
election, as it was in 1924 and 1927; and
candidates are thankful. For the first 11
months of its existence the Labor Govern-
ment’s life was tormented by attempts made
to have the former J. Hops reinstated. Then
came the announcement on Anzac Day, 1928,
that 65 recruits were to be enrolled. The
last hope of the remnant of the 636 who
downed batons then perished.
In the first nine months of 1927 the gain
by excess of European arrivals over depar-
tures was 33,876. In 1928 it had fallen to
19.245. In 1929 it had flonped to 4124.
When figures for the whole of 1929 are out
they may show a definite exodus. The loan
boom didn’t perceptibly help immigration,
but even the partial stoppage of it played
the very devil.
While the British and Australian Labor
Governments are resuming relations with the
Red Republic, Nippon is thinking of showing
Repudiationsky the door. The Russo-
Japanese commercial treaty, concluded a
couple of years ago, contained the familiar
proviso that Repudiationsky should cease
conniving at revolution in the Land of the
Rising Sun; but no sooner did the Red per-
son get his foot in the country than he
started his old games. Hordes of immature
youngsters went to Moscow to learn how
to “take and hold the means of production
by revolutionary industrial and political
action,” and everything was in train for
a Bolshevist rising when the Japanese police
swmoped down and made a thousand or more
arrests. Repudiationsky disclaims responsi-
bility, but the Japanese Government is not
so confiding as the MacDonalds and Scullins.
Basher gangs and other associated thugs
continue to be active in Sydney; attacks
on timber-workers continue as furiously as
if the strike was still “on” instead of being
officially “off.” It is a situation that calls
for more constables. England and Wales
have 25 per cent, more bobbies than the Ma
State in proportion to population, and 95
times as many in proportion to area. So
there are about 95 more chances of a con-
stable coming on the English basher when
his presence will do the most good than
there are in the case of the N.S.W. basher,
and there are chances that 95 constables will
fall on the gang operating en masse instead
of one. A reforming Ministry should keep
this comparison in view and. act on it to a
reasonable extent.
Having persuaded itself that it put the
Federal Labor people in, Melbourne Age
has started to apologise for them; and it
is obviously going to be kept busy and wor-
ried. One of the excuses it finds for the
sudden abolition of military training is that
“the Labor party has not gone deeply into
the defence question,” which is all the more
reason why the Labor Government should
not have acted \yithout consulting the mili-
tary advisers of the nation, Monash, White
and Chauvel. Again :
Compulsory training in Australia gives rise to
difficulty in making arrangements with other coun-
tries tor mutual disarmament and tor participating
in peace conferences.
A wildly ridiculous assertion, considering
that France, Italy and Japan, three of the
five Big Powers which take part in these
pretty discussions, go in for out-and-out con-
scription. At the Washington Conference
in 1921 Belgium. Portugal, China and the
Netherlands conferred with the Big Five.
All four have compulsory training.


SAFETY FIRST.
“The Assistant Minister for Industry, Mr. J. A. Beasley, is in a dilemma regarding the proposed industrial peace convened by the Prime Minister,
Mr. Scullin. He has to choose between adherence to the Federal Labor party and allegiance to his former Communist colleagues.”
THE COMRADE: “Whatya waitin’ for? Come on with us—we workers got nothing to lose except our chains.”
MR. BEASLEY: “Here, wait a minute—I’m not so sure of that as I used to be!”
Poverty
Point
“Dubug”: Attracted by a crowd in Auck-
land (M.L.) the other day I elbowed m.v
way in and beheld an old dramatic diehard
friend, arrayed in the tattered habiliments
and raven skin of a plantation darkie, per-
forming prodigies of pantomime in a shop-
window to advertise a super-talkie. Later,
I reproved him gently for thus prostituting
his art, only to learn that true art knows
no prostitution. “The meagre monetary
gain,” he said, “is forgotten. I still draw
houses.” He did; the police found it neces-
sary to disperse the crowd three- times for
impeding the traffic.
“D.” : Hannan Swaffer, who was smacked
twice in the Savoy Grill by Lilian Foster
(“once for myself and once for America”),
is London’s most insulting critic. Part of
his Sunday Express page is usually devoted
to an account of the ruin which has over-
taken plays and actors that have been de-
nounced by him. He is a small, shabby,
long-haired, actorish .little man with a Mid-
land accent, who can be found daily at the
Savoy lunching amidst a small court of minor
mummers. The leaders of the profession
deride him good-naturedly, and so do the
more serious critics—his art being aimed
frankly at outer Suburbia. He is sensitive
behind his swashbuckling manner, lie was
unwary enough once to say to Noel Coward,
whose downfall as a playwright he has long
prophesied, “I always say you act better
than you write, Noel.” “Just what I’ve
always said of you, Hannan,” was the reply.
8o stung was the critic by London’s hilarity
over this story that he issued a formal
denial of its truth, and so gave it a fresh
lease of life.
“O. Blin” : Betty M. Davies, whose “Touch
of Silk” has revived hopes for the future of
Australian drama, has completed two one-
aeters, entitled “Morning” and “A Man of
Principle,” which are waiting production by
a courageous manager. Both of the playlets
reveal a relentless, unromantic attitude to
life. “A Man of Principle” is an especially
juicy fragment. Sean O’Casey could hardly
have done better with this lowly tale of a
household in a sordid suburb.
“Cauboy” : With that eye to detail which
distinguishes him Stuart Doyle proposes to
wire a section of the seats in the newly
acquired Auditorium in Melbourne, so that
deaf mutes can hear as well as see the vocal
film. Despite statements to the contrary the
deaf have been deprived of their most agree-
able form of entertainment since the advent
of the talkies. The device to be employed
is an invention of the Western Electric
and combines headphones with a potentio-
meter, which the user can plug into a per-
manent radio attachment fixed to the seat.
An adjustment will enable him to increase
or lower the volume of sound to suit his
tastes or needs. Many picturegoers with
normal hearing have longed for a similar
device on occasions.
“M.P.S.”: Why must actor managers
tinker with the manuscripts of the old
masters? Allan Wilkie’s production of “The
School for Scandal” is good on the whole,
but why make Moses address the footman
Trip as Tripe three or four times? In the
same scene a bell rings once ; Wilkie makes
it ring four or five times, and thereby drags
out an unimportant incident. During the
sale of the pictures Moses is made to utter
a series of fatuous remarks strangely for-
eign to the wit of Sheridan. When Charles Sur-
face tells his Uncle Oliver that his library
has been sold, Moses, according to Sheri-
dan, says: “I know nothing of books.” Wilkie
finds it necessary to add “except interest
books.” Sir Oliver, going with Moses to call
on Charles Surface, says: “It must be my
own fault' if I am not a complete rogue
before I turn the corner.” Wilkie gets a
cheap laugh by making Moses say that it
will not be his fault if he is not a rogue
before he gets down stairs. Even if such
alterations were improvements they could
not be justified.
“C. 8.”: Beresford Fowler, of Melbourne,
can surely claim to be the doyen of amateur
producers. He has just appeared in his 50th
play and his 171st performance.
“F.S.”: This being the silly season in
Melbourne, the venerable controversy about
the identity of Shakspeare is a major topic
in the Argus. Bernard Hall, artist, started
it by trotting out the old thesis that an
obscure actor could not have been the author
of plays which show an allegedly profound
knowledge of medicine, navigation, ancient
art, literature and history, contemporary
law and the usages of polite society. Sec.
Hart, of the local Shakspeare Society, re-
torted with some supposedly direct evidence
of the bard’s handiwork. Sitting on the
judge’s bench. I should say that both gentle-
men show a blank ignorance of the workings
of the creative imagination. A comprehen-
sive knowledge of a subject is not essential
to the imaginative writer. Even the lowest
grade of creative worker, the journalist,
shows that. After 40 minutes in a certain
scientific institution of remarkable com-
plexity, I wrote an article which a doctor,
unaware of my identity, subsequently told
me he thought had been written by a special-
ist physician. My acquaintance with the
practice of medicine is confined to a know-
ledge of how to apply corn cure.
“C.R.8.” : The smacking of the dramatic
critic Hannan Swaffer by an enraged
American actress in London recalls Kenner-
ley Rumford’s assault on a musical critic
in Maoriland. The scribe had suggested
that the voice of Mrs. Kennerley (Clara
Butt) was not an untrammelled how of gold,
wherefore the angry husband waited for the
journalist and smote him in a tender place.
Criticism, however, has fallen into such a
condition of apologia or meek applause that
few writers ever have the pleasure of even
receiving a denunciatory memo from the
victim. The only critic of standing who,
after 20 years’ hard work with the vinegar
and thong, still causes the profession to
bristle at the mention of his name, is George
Jean Nathan, of New York. Nathan has
been refused admission on countless occasions
and could compile a dictionary of epithets
from the letters he has received. His fun-
niest experience was when George Broad-
hurst, the dramatist, issued an ornate pamph-
let in four colors declaring that Nathan was
a danger to society.
“S.T.S.”: Something is astray in
“19.44.55’5” par (B. 23/10/’29) about
“Turned Up”—“written about 25 years ago;
Leo Pranklyn created the part of Carraway
Bones, undertaker.” I am not likely to forget
it, because it was absolutely the first thing
I ever saw Brough and Boucieault in. Robert
B. was Carraway Bones; Dion B. and his
sister had boy anil girl parts. Date, approxi-
mately, 1887.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: Sacco, the man who'
lived by not eating, overdid the fasting busi-
ness when he established the “world’s record”
in the foolishness —65 days. Sacco, whose
real name was Richard Hans Jones, had
been fasting in spasms for a quarter of a
century, making a fair income out of the
ghouls who pay admission to see what a
starving man looks like. He won a side-bet
of £lOO on his last exploit, which was the
outcome of a challenge from the “French
champion” Leblanc, but he put his digestive
apparatus permanently out of gear and died
within a month. Smokes enabled him to
last out eight days longer than he could go
without them.
“Cauboy”: Phil Finkelstein, the Firm’s
publicity manager, was surveying the scene
of the Melbourne Majesty’s fire when an
usher remarked with a melancholy grin,
“This is good publicity for ‘Brewster’s Mil-
lions,’ Mr. Finkelstein.” “Don’t need it,”
said Finkelstein, “there’s not a seat left
in the house.”
“Lao-dah”: The movie people are very
fond of giving us alleged tragedies of the
circus ring, but they have thought of none
to equal a true drama that was enacted in
a circus in Java the other day. A trick
cyclist, whose star performance was a turn
in which he tore down an inclined plane on
a single wheel and somersaulted through a
hoop of fire, had had occasion to slap the
native attendant whose job it was to catch
the body of his master as it flew by. When
the champion somersaulted on the following
evening he completed his circuit all right, but,
to the horror of the audience, he was seen
to be impaled on a large kris held in the
hand of the Malay. The aggrieved Indonesian
then proceeded methodically to slash him to
death before the eyes of the house.
“Sudah Habis” : Wonderful Ada Reeve is
returning to the stage, this time as fellow-
conspirator with Leon Gordon in the forth-
coming production at Melbourne Comedy of
“The Murder on the Second Floor.” Ada
wears better than any actress I know. Her
stcp is getting lighter and her hair redder
eve j. y time I see her.
’ irA , ~ „ . ,
Santander : I retty Eve. Gray has a good
place in “The Flying Fool,” Frank Ridley’s
latest effort to rock the nerve centres of the
simple-minded. Ridley, author of “The
Wrecker” and “The Ghost Train,” has out-
paced Edgar Wallace in a weird endeavor to
abduct a carefully boxed Venus in an aero-
plane. One of the thrills of the piece is a
i eap from one plane to another in mid-air,
j )U t generally the offering advertises a
vacancy for an inventive mind.
“Santander”: The success of Sherriff with
j dg “journey’s End” has brought to light the
enga gi ng enterprise of his first London mana-
Maurice Browne. Browne seized Slier-
riff’s manusC ript after it had been lying idle
and thumb-worn in the drawers of various
ted judges of goo d plays, and he put it
QQ despitc tlie ITO lovely shakings of many
wi ’ se heads. To-day he is not so rich as
gh erriff, but he lias plenty of money to drop
should he back a loser next time. “Journey’s
jg nd » took 23,000 dollars in its first week in
Chicago—a record for a non-musical in
that city.
“due Ma” : If Ford had succeeded in en-
in Mussolini as head of liis publicity
3 e £ ar f ment there could not be more anguish
in i Ita i y than has been caused by the
announ cement that Toscanini is leaving La
Scala to direct the New York Philharmonic,
and enfeeblement owing to the strain
conducting a succession of grand operas
. g advanced as the reason for the veteran’s
desor ( j uu . though the size of the bribe may
j iave something to do with it, especially as it
repor |- ed that he will conduct 62 symphony
concerts and later direct a tour of Europe.
Toscanini is approaching the seventies and
]iad become as fixed an institution at Milan
as t he water supply,
, T
Caesars Ghost : In I shaw s latest v -w
on democracy, as. given in Ihe Apple-c rt,
which has been tried in the English piovmces,
the “people” are represented as having
grown so fed-up with their politicians that
only seven per cent, of them vote—against
own representatives! Shaw nowadays
j s making ninepins of all forms of democratic
government and preaching the doctrine of a
benevolent dictatorship as the remedy for the
does the usual thing—gets back to wheie lu.
started. .
C. Ma : The Box Movietone people are
beginning to take an interest in Australia,
Ray Vaughan, a Sydney operator, was re-
cently sent to Hollywood to learn the tech-
nique.of eavesdropping per camera, and now
captains the first sound-car to be seen in
Melbourne. Others will be conducted, so
that this country should soon find a place
in the news gazettes here and abroad.


M&Mm
gmm
Jiiiiill
m
oats
smammawmam
ammmmmmm
Wm-mrnMM
mm
m.
m
mmm
Jill
111
BF
* v/ ,
r ' s*l
:: tv *
■Hi
lllltll
<*»*
*s?s©
m
mi
Mmmmm
H
«»
V 5
... 1
¥: : : : : : : : : : : ; :¥
111 ill
■ v
to ■y&c&A
SUNSHINE AND
• • • AND TOOTH
From sport in the sunshine to a
spot in the shade ... from exhaust-
ing effort to a refreshing reviver
a long glass of cool K.B.
just when you need it most
.. that's real enjoyment.
TOOTH’S
KB
LAGER,
BREWED AND BOTTLED BY TOOTH & CO., LIMITED, KENT BREWERY, SYDNEY,


ytuyu
FIRST
AID
OUTFIT
In Pigskin Case.
ALL who motor should have one—be
prepared—you never know. It con-
tains CHLORO-lODINE, the improved
lodine preparation—it neither “STINGS”
nor “STAINS” the flesh and is non-
poisonous—stops bleeding—soothes and
cleanses. Keep the outfit handy in the
car pocket.
15/6
complete
as above.
ROTHWELLS OUTFITTING
LTD
EDWARD STREET, BRISBANE
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety f-' U9e
Detonators
Cartridges
ADFIELDS
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS—DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadtields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and l
Foundries i
Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W,
Bassendean, Perth, W.A.
Branch [
Office J
422 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
S. F. Sheffer, who died after a very short
illness at Brisbane last week, came to Aus-
tralia from the U.S.A. 30 years ago, and
presently founded the Sheldon Drug Co. It
made, among others, the Rexona products,
on which alone it spent over £50,000 a year
in advertising. And it paid, for after a com-
fortable fortune had been made out of it,
the goodwill of that part of the business
was sold recently for £125,000. Probably
the best idea in advertising he ever struck
was to hoist signboards on the outskirts
of nearly a thousand towns and villages in
Australia—“ Welcome to Possum Flat [or
whatever the place might be], a Good Rexona
Town.” Travellers mightn’t care whether
it wus a good Rexona town or not, but they
appreciated the rest of the information,
especially if they were travelling in unfami-
liar parts.
W. A. Webb, the man from Texas who
has been S. Aus. Railways Commissioner
since Nov. 15, 1922, is to stay on for an-
other six months. Then he will be succeeded
by C. B. Anderson, hitherto his general
superintendent. Webb gets £5500 a year,
but Anderson will have to rub along with
£3OOO less, being only an Australian. He
was born and bred in the Central State,
and has been in its Railway Department
for 31 of his 50 years.
M. RENE TURCK, the French Consul in
Melbourne, a resplendent figure at Cup
festivities.
The people who are arranging the “Back
to Portland” celebrations have unearthed
two links with the long-ago. They are Miss
M. Liddell, a daughter of the Liddell who skip-
pered the schooner Thistle when it landed
Edward Henty in Portland, and W. G.
Byass, son of Dr. Byass, who settled in Port-
land in 1837 after a year on Kangaroo
Island. W. O. Byass now lives in Leeder-
ville (W.A.) ; he has been a Perth auditor
for many years.
The passing of James iCrewe Hogue robs
Brisbane of one of its most widely-known
identities. For over 30 years he was secre-
tary of the Stock Exchange, resigning in
1922. Hogue was in a big London stock-
broking office before he came to Australia,
and for some time lie was accountant in
the Sydney office of the Orient line. Ho
was 82 at the last call.
David Blanshard, the Tas. insurance agent
who lost his deposit for the fifth time at
the Federal election, has never addressed a
political meeting. He just nominates and
pays up smilingly. Well on in the eighties,
he is a familiar figure in the Hobart streets
with an unlighted cigar in his fingers and
a cornflower in his buttonhole. Should you
stop long enough he is almost sure to repeat
the war-time verse, “If you’re feeling pessi-
mistic and troubled with the
blues, just read those buck-
up speeches of little Billy
Hughes.”
W. J. Cleary, who follows
James Fraser as Chief Com-
missioner of N.S.W.. Rail-
ways, at the same salary
(£5000), has had only one
employer : he entered Tooth’s
brewery as soon as he left
Sydney High School —he
was 14 then—and it didn’t
take him long to climb to
the top. He is a student
and a hard worker: to help
him at his job he took the
economics course at Sydney
Uni., and when Henry Brad-
don, of Dalgety’s, gave over
lecturing the students on
business principles Mr.
Cleary added that .to his
pleasures. His other plea-
sures are very modest; pro-
bably he is happiest when he
sets out on a walking tour —
he lately explored part of
the Victorian highlands on
foot, and he has trapsed
over most of the Blue
Mountains. Yet he isn’t
robust, and if he can stand
the strain of his new job it
will be because he is a philo-
sopher as well as a very
able business man who
works strictly according to
time-table. But there is
something very wrong with
N.S.W. Railways if they
can’t at this time of day secure and train
their own managers.
George H. Carter, doyen of Australian
schoolteachers, has signed the roll for the last
time, at 80. He had 62 years’ service with
chalk and duster. For half a century he
was .in the Vic. Education Department, be-
coming president of the Teachers’ Union,
and he went on managing or assisting in
secondary schools as long as he could walk.
John Lloyd Price, the smiling little South
Aus. Labor man who unseated Duncan
Hughes in November and won a free pass
to Canberra again last month, has something
in his portmanteau which used to delight
Australian exiles when he was his State’s
London agent. It is a photograph of himself
all dressed up for a royal levee, knee breeches
and silk stockings complete. Jack Price told
his newspaper cobbers when the Butler
Cabinet recalled him from London that he
meant to have a shot at a Federal seat. He
scored a bull in quick time.
In Australia as elsewhere seamen will not
learn to swim, but in other respects the breed
is not wanting. When the N.S.W. trawler
Gunundaal crashed in pitch darkness on the
Cape Howe rocks, two lifeboats from neigh-
boring vessels were launched in a raging
sea, and after hours of heroic exertions one
got alongside. The Gunundaal men, however,
decided that it would be less risky to remain
aboard till morning. When daylight caine,
one Tom Saunders swam ashore with a line
(he lost it once and had to go back a hun-
dred yards), by means of which five non-
swimmers were saved. The brave fellow is a
Welshman.
Four judges helped to bury A. M. Stewart,
Conciliation Commissioner, at Cheltenham
(Vic.) last week. It wasn’t Stewart’s fault,
of course, but he was one of the tools used
in building up the present rotten system of
“settling” industrial disputes in Australia.
As long as the trouble was “settled,” Stewart
and the system under which he worked were
happy. Whether the terms were just or
whether they simply involved taking another
bite out of the public was of little or no
consequence. Working according to the rules
laid down, Stewart was quite successful. He
began life in a telegraph-office but later
qualified for the Bar.
A Maorilander was one of the pilots who
assisted to lift European residents out of
the clutches of the rebels when King
Amanullah lost Kabul. He is Flying-officer
E. G. Olson, of the Royal Air Force, who
has just taken on the job of teaching Shivery
Islanders how to use wings. Olson made
two trips to the Afghan capital, and brought
away two women and a child.
P. J. Nally has ceased to be director of
the Sydney branch of the Queensland Tour-
ist Bureau, and the tireless enthusiast will
be missed. Nally succeeded the picturesque
W. J. CLEARY, N.S.W.’s
new Chief Railway
Commissioner.
Archie Meston. Himself a writer, he has
splashed ink all over the map of Queens-
land at one time or another.
The Sun, which has beamed on Kalgoor-
lie since 1898, has gone down. Some of its
editors helped to make political history,
notably Hugh Mahon, who became M.H.R.
for Coolgardie and the first Labor Post-
master-General ; Tommy Walker, now Speaker
of the State Assembly; and Jack Drayton,
who wrote an article highly unflattering to
Parliament and was gaoled by that august
institution for contempt. Others were Wal-
lace Nelson, still writing excellent stuff in
Sydney, and Andree Hayward, now of The
Bulletin. One. Sun editor,
Charley Morgan, resigned
his job on winning a £2OOO
prize in a S’African lottery
which he had never heard of
until he was notified of his
luck.
The Solomons have lost
their oldest white inhabitant
in J. P. Newman. He
arrived there in 1884, and
for the last 30 years was a
fixture. He helped to erect
the two 250 ft. wireless masts
at Tulagi in 1915, and
painted them when they re-
quired it. A cheerful soul
was Newman, but he could
tell some blood-curdling
island yarns when in the
mood.
Dunn, the N.S.W. Labor
Senator who has been
appointed to whip up the
Scullidores’ party of seven
in the Second Chamber, is
probably the only Australian
politician who has ever
altered his name for election
purposes. By deed poll he
added “Digger” to the
“James Patrick” chosen for
him by his parents. Dunn
was a trooper in Sinai.
J. E. Davidson, managing
director of the co, which
owns the Adelaide News and
Mail, the Barrier Miner,
the Perth Daily News and
other newspapers, has been
re-visiting his native dis-
trict, Harrow (Vic.), after 40 years’
absence. His father was station manager
for the Edgar family, and looked after
Thackaringa, near Broken Hill, before there
was any idea of a silver city. Walter Edgar,
who still lives on Pine Hills station, near
Harrow, which the family took up in the
’forties, was among those who welcomed the
son of his father’s manager.
When Drummond, the N.S.W. Minister of
Education laid the foundation-stone of the
new Girls’ High School at Hornsby, the
vote of thanks was moved by Jacob Garrard
who was Minister of Education himself
under G. H. Reid (1894-98), and Minister
of Works in John Robertson’s last Ministry,
which came in on Dec. 22, 1885, and went
out on Feb. 25, 1886. The old man entered
politics as M.L.A. for Balmain on Nov. 19,
1880. He is still hale and hearty despite
his 84 years.
A small man with a big heart was Harry
Walter Little, who has written his last par.
For 35 years Little got advertisements for
Sydney Evening News and contributed to
other papers, mostly on ecclesiastical sub-
jects. A devout Anglican, he had a private
chapel in his home, a humble Redfern cot-
tage, and there he sheltered many a remit-
tance man. And in his back yard he gener-
ally kept a dozen or more dogs, strays col-
lected from the streets.
It seemed certain at the week-end that
Peacock would get a walkover for Allandale
(Vic.). ITe has had 16 months as Speaker
of the Leg. Assembly, and unless there is a
decided swing to Labor (which is unlikely)
he will be re-elected to the chair. During
the 40 years and eight months Peacock has
been in Parliament he served 24 years as
a Minister, including three turns as Premier.
From his retirement on the North Shore
(Sydney):—
Dear Bulletin, —I see myself referred to as “the
late” in last week’s issue. I am sceptical about it;
it is hard to believe that I should have survived
the slings and arrows of Island savages and the
hatred of outrageous Huns in New Guinea to be
slain by the mere slip of a pen in George-street.
The story told about me, incidentally, is too good
to be true; these good stories always are. The only
sharks that have ever attacked me, really, were
of the land variety. But politicians need not fear
—I am not going to mention names.—Yours still
gratefully, Walter H. Lucas.
The Bulletin delightedly erases the “late”
and resurrects its old friend—and wishes it
could do the same thing as easily with a
few others. But it still doesn’t understand
why he left his good job with Burns
Pliilp (the next step seemed to be to the
general manager’s chair) for a harassing
and very temporary job at exactly the same
salary. Certainly no Australian ever col-
lected more kicks out of a service involving
a heavy sacrifice.
Richard Allen, the oldest merchant in
Flinders-lane (he was 86), has passed on.
He spent 50 years in the softgoods trade.
Allen used to tell a story about a carrier who
had standing instructions to leave parcels
under the mat at the front door if nobody
was at home. One day the honest fellow
shoved a brown-paper parcel under the mat
and strode off whistling blithely. It con-
tained a Greuze painting. Allen had paid
£3OO for the picture the previous day and
had forgotten to tell the carrier that it
wasn’t a slab of blue cod or a packet of
motzos.
Henri Benedictus Salman Van Raalte,
found with a bullet wound in his head and a
revolver by his side on the road near his home
at Second Valley (S.A.), had, in his day, a
great influence on Australian art. An Aus-
tralian only by adoption, he came from
London to Perth in 1918, where he got the
job of examiner at the University and tech-
nical schools. He recorded his reactions to
his new environment in a series of etchings,
which created a sensation among art-lovers;
the price of prints issued at 30 shillings
rose in some cases to £4O. It is doubtful,
however, whether the next generation will
regard them so highly. Van Raalte was a
highly-strung man with pronounced ideas on
art. He was appointed curator of the Adel-
aide Gallery, but soon fell foul of his
employers and resigned.
Arthur Horton Rig-gall, sheepman and sol-
dier, has gone under at Ross (Tas.), aged
62. He commanded the first Tas. Bushmen
in S’Africa, and returned with a severe
wound and the D.S.O. He could not serve
in the Great War, but did what lie could,
and every Anzac night the returned men of
the district were his guests at Somercotes,
the Riggall home.
The gold still lures Plii] Saunders, of
(W.A.), although he has turned 86.
Saunders lias toiled on every field in West-
ralia; over 40 years ago he crossed from
Darwin and prospected Hall’s Creek. When
he was 80 he sank a shaft. Now a patient
in the Menzies Hospital, the indomitable old
.fellow wants to go back to Hall’s Creek (it
is about 1200 miles away), saying he knows
where there are payable reefs. He has tried
to induce friends to back him, but they
haven’t his optimism.
Martin Tlirclfall, who goes to Canberra
as publicity officer to the Federal Ministry
and political secretary to Scullin, learned
most of his politics on the S. M. Herald—
he was its Federal correspondent for six
years. The Commonwealth Government sent
him to Japan in 1923 with the relief mission
after the earthquake, and he was aboard the
Hood when the special service squadron was
nosing about Australia. He spent 1927 and
’2B in Fleet-street.
Mat Bennett, who won the Gippsland West
seat for the Cockles by a majority of 918
over Laborite Tom Houlihan, is a sedate old
COL. R. A.
CROUCH, who
won Corangami[?]e
for Labor from
Postmaster-
General Gibson.
gentleman of 65 or
thereabouts. He is
a retired farmer:
his holding at
Oatani is managed
by the young’uns.
John Allan and
the venerable
Downward spon-
sored him when he
came into the
Assembly to
take the oath
and sign the
roll for the few
hours the Par-
liament lasted.
It is 21 years
since the
Assembly had a
Bennett. That
Bennett (George,
member for Rich-
mond) was per-
haps the best-
liked man it has
known.
Although Billy Ilulse may poll better than
comrade Cummins did in April, 1927, he is
not likely to trouble Vic. Premier McPherson
in the contest for Hawthorn. Hulse, a
former popular railway official, knows
throngs of young voters, but McPherson is
to Hawthorn what Joseph Chamberlain was
to Birmingham. Reminders of him are in the
parks, the Town Hall, the tech, school and
other spots. He lives in James Palmer's
old home in the St. James’s Park portion
of the city, and he has gratified the consti-
tuency’s pride by bringing it the Premiership
for the first time. In 1927 he had a majority
of 3055 over Cummins.
ON POPPY DAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Some regal quality in other days
, They visioned in your redness rich and
deep;
Among the yellowing corn ’twas yours to
blaze
Or hang upon the craggy ledge in sleep.
Symbol of indolence and lordly ease
So long, they gave you new significance,
The men who rest beneath you overseas
On Flanders leas
And in the fields of France.
Slumbrous you hung in dreamy Lotvysland ;
You flamed in Roman gardens proudly
tall.
Now for the sacrifice supreme you stand,
Poppy, and for the longest sleep of all.
Whether in storied fields serene you glow
Or where the cypress throws its ordered
shade
Or the gaunt yew-tree towers, you whisper
low
The debt we owe.
The debt that must be paid.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Isharagi”: The quaintest bar I ever saw,
and one of the busiest, was the canteen at
the details camp at Ivantara (Suez Canal).
It was a marquee with only two doorways,
and was open for three hours in the after-
noons. (Customers (mostly Tommy foot-
sloggers) formed a queue and filed through
the entrance past the bar. Each got his
quart of beer (the limit) in a messtin, and
passed out of the other door. The lids were
then jambed on, and the owners sprinted
back to the end of the queue—a quarter of
a mile away on pay days—and quaffed the
beverage while they moved up the line for
the next issue. The beer was dipped with
jugs from open wooden tubs by half a dozen
perspiring barmen who had to go through
a foot of froth to get it.
'i* ❖
“Nero”: Mesopotamia was a record-
breaker in many ways, the casualties from
sun- and heat-strokes being responsible for
the only royal commission ever appointed
to inquire into the conduct of a campaign
in progress. I have seen men drop from
heat-stroke well after dark on the march
from the troopship at Basra to the base
camp. Basra’s roads had big troughs of
water at frequent intervals, and it was
understood that they were intended for the
first treatment of the stricken as well as
COMPENSATIONS.
“And another thing about working in a newspaper office, dear—you can read all the
perfectly delicious love-poems in the waste-paper basket!”
for mules to drink from. Sir Victor Horsley,
the famous surgeon, was sent out to investi-
gate the serious number of stroke cases in
1916. Soon afterwards he died at Amara,
on the Tigris, reputedly from sunstroke
through walking about 100 yards from one
hut to another. It was the very thing he
had come to investigate, and to find methods
of preventing.
sj: # ;?c
“Anophele”: I watched two members of
the North Australian police force step off
the train at Darwin, completing the last
stage of their long 853-mile journey via
Sockage Creek from TanamL They had just
completed two years’ service in Australia’s
most isolated police camp, now closed, and
it had told on them terribly. Tanami is 100
miles from the nearest station from which
meat can be procured. Their camp was of
canvas, and their water supply a soak in
the stony range. For long months together
they never saw another white face. Vege-
tables were undreamt of, as the rainfall over
the two years’ period was barely four inches.
Mining operations at Tanami ceased shortly
after the station was opened, though they
are likely to be resumed soon. But the
country is among the most grimly forbidding
in Australia, and for generations even the
abos. have given it a wide berth. I knew
the place in its brief boom of 20 years ago,
and left with it the bones of a Ivlondyke
mate.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Those who hold that the criminal
is a mental defective might consider this
/Cup-time exhibit. A Melbourne business
man received a ’phone message that a cer-
tain Mr. X from a country town would pro-
bably call on him that morning, and if he
did so to tell him that his wife and two
children had been seriously injured in a
motor accident, and that he was to hasten
home immediately. In due course Mr. X
turned up; on hearing the sad news the dis-
tracted man rushed off to the railway sta-
tion. Shortly afterwards he returned to
say that he had just missed the only train
for the day, that he must go by taxi, but
he was momentarily short of cash, and would
Mr., etc., etc. Mister would, and off the
anxious parent and husband dashed. That
was the last the business man heard of him.
# * * H=
“Eureka”: The big P. and O. liner was
passing by the Coast Hospital at Little Bay
when an old patient came. out on to the
verandah. “How would you like to be on
that boat, Dad?” I queried idly. He shook
his head. “I’ve been on boats up on the
Lachlan and the Murrumbidgee,” he said,
“and they’ll do me.” Then he told me that
he was 87, and the last time he was in
Sydney he drove a bullock-team up George-
street.
* * * *
“Vil N.”: Ern was an inveterate buyer
of second-hand cars. He’d scarcely pay one
off before he’d be on the verge of bankruptcy
striving to pay off another. One was as
likely to be hailed from a natty little run-
about as from a wheezy, ancient able only to
chug its weary way to the garage for repairs.
But Ern always managed to be in a car
until a day arrived when I met him walk-
ing in the street. “Hullo,” I said. “What’s
happened to your car?” “Which one?” he
asked. I explained. “Oh, that thing,” he
said. “I sold that long ago. The one I’ve
got now’s a serial.” “A serial? Never
heard of the make: what’s the idea?” “Well,
you see, she falls naturally into several
parts.”
❖ ❖ *
“Dubug”: A canister of pepper will take
the fight out of a man running amok quite
as effectively as a steam hose. I was a
deck-hand in the ’nineties on the Neurel Var,
a stinking little freighter which nosed around
the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden, when
the Chinese cook went on the warpath with
a natty little cleaver. Fortunately for us
he gave his preliminary attention to the long-
liorned sheep which we were taking under
open hatches from Berbera to Mokalla, and
he was literally .wading in gore when the
skipper called to him from the deck; looking
up unguardedly he got about a pound of fine
pepper in his face. I did not see the actual
performance, because I was locked in a state-
room with some of the other cowards, but I
helped to collect the remains of the Chow
after the maddened sheep had finished with
him, and it was only by scraps of clothing
that we could tell human flesh from mutton.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: That old-fashioned English
pastime, “’Aving ther law on yer,” is highly
regarded by a Redfern (Sydney) lady. When
the magistrate remarked upon the familiarity
of her face she mentioned that she had
appeared as complainant no less than 43
times during the last nine years, the cases
being mainly of the insulting language or
“I’ll make yer prove yer words” variety. On
a few more occasions she had appeared as
defendant to charges laid by people goaded
to retaliation by her litigious propensities.
“Is there any other game you like playing?”
asked the opposing solicitor, facetiously. “Yes
—patience,” replied the witness seriously,
taking the question as showing a kindly
interest in her domestic life.
“C h e v roford” :
Despite its wide
streets and the
gridiron layout
which used to be
its pride, Mel-
bourne has as seri-
ous a traffic pro-
blem as any city of
its size. There are
so many restric-
tions about turning
to the left or to
the right that a
motorist is hard
put to it to get to
certain parts of the
metropolis at all.
Lately the City
Council introduced
a new regulation
forbidding turning
to the right in the
middle of a block,
which had become
the custom of driv-
ers ever since the
complete right turn
at intersection was
prohibited. It is
now impossible for
motorists in cer-
tain parts to get
out of • town at
rush hours without
making detours of
a mile or more.
Recently a woman,
suffused in tears,
was found by a
constable in a
limousine drawn
up against the kerb
in a forbidden area.
At first the John
Hop concluded the
lady was drunk,
but subsequently
she was able to
explain that she
had been caught in
the web of regula-
tions half an hour
before, and was
overcome at the
thought that she
might never find
her way out.
“Kyn” : Our recently-arrived English maid,
after visiting the Exhibition of Australian
Manufactures in Melbourne, told us that she
had bought a brooch made of a cookbird and
his wishbone. It turned out to be a kooka-
burra perched on a boomerang.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Half-way up the narrow via
dolorosa which leads to the outdoor clinic
of the Melbourne Hospital is a street tap
of the old-fashioned kind. Hundreds of suf-
ferers, afflicted with most of the diseases to
be found in the medical dictionaries, pause
at this tap to slake their thirst; it would
be interesting to know how many further
complicate their diagnosis
by so doing. Further up
the same lane is Mel-
bourne’s principal red-
light district. Presum-
ably when the health
authorities placed the
hospital where they did
they acted on the same
principle as the manufac-
turer who builds his fac-
tory as close to the source
of his raw material as
possible.
❖ *
“Mr. Cato”: I was for
ignoring the unsavory in-
dividual who was trying
to put the hard word on
us, but my companion,
unable to free himself
gracefully from the de-
taining grip upon his
sleeve, was obliged to
halt and listen to a tale
of woe. Vainly he sought
to escape by declaring : “I
haven’t got any change
just now.” The firm hold
upon his arm was not
released, so' he added:
“But I’m going to a shop
just along there, and
when I get change
I’ll give you something;
that is, if you’ll be here
when we come back.”
The cadger considered
the proposition for a
moment; then he an-
nounced : “Well, I reckon
I’ll just walk along with
ycr. Yer sec, Mister,” he confided to me
informatively, “I’ve fell in before through
givin’ credit.”
Hs % *
“N.M.”: It happened in a suburb on the
north side of the harbor. The lady of the
house had gone into town for a day’s
shopping and the maid-of-all-work was turn-
ing out the • ground floor. About an hour
after the housewife’s departure a frail old
lady rang the front door-bell. She asked
for Mrs. Brown-Smith, and the maid re-
plied that Mrs. Brown-Smith had gone to
town for the day. “Oh,” said the old lady
aghast, “and I have come all the way
from Woollahra to have lunch with her.
Let me see now, to-day is Wednesday.
Well, I’m sure the engagement was for
Wednesday.” She hesitated a moment while
the maid made noises that were half-sym-
pathy and half-impatience to be back at
the avid vacuum. “Could I rest for a
little while?” the visitor asked. “Why, cer-
tainly,” and the maid shut her off from
the dust in a little parlor. Another 10
minutes passed, and the old lady tottered out
to the vacuum. “If you don’t mind, dear,
I’ll go up to the bathroom and have a wash—
I feel so terribly grubby.” The girl agreed.
Upstairs the old girl puttered, her shabby
bag with her. When the maid remembered
her, sympathetic for her age and disappoint-
ment, she rushed to the parlor with ofEers
of a cup of tea. But the oitl lady had gone.
Gone also had mistress’s best underclothes,
her gold-mounted dressing-table outfit, the
IT HAS ITS DISADVANTAGES.
BILLY: “I have no fear of death. To me it means just an
adventure.”
TILLY: “Oh, yes, quite. But one of those adventures that leave
one so breathless .”
contents of a secret cache of £l5 and other
oddments. In place of these the caller had
left some of her own worn-out garments.
* * * *
“Elgar”: Word came to the Casterton
(Vie.) police at 2 a.m. on Oct. 31 that
thieves had been disturbed ransacking a store
at Penola, over the S. Aus. border,_ and had
escaped down the Melbourne road in a fast
car. Four local Johns hopped into the
best car they could commandeer and started
to intercept the marauders. Some miles out
they saw the lights and pulled up their ’bus
across the road with a red flash-light showing.
The on-comers shied at the danger signal,
making a detour through saplings and fences
at a 60-mile gait with bullets flying round
them. Then the chase began in earnest,
pursued and pursuers tearing through Cas-
terton, Merino and various little townships
and startling numerous citizens from their
slumbers. The police driver knew that at
the Wannon bridge there was a dangerous
turn and slowed down; the pursued either
didn’t know it or didn’t care. With a shriek-
ing of brakes their car mounted the bank and
rolled over and over. The two occupants
weren’t dead, but they were an easy cap-
ture. The car, which had been annexed at
Wagga (N.S.W.) six weeks before, was
full of stolen goods.
* * * *
“Herodot”: A few years ago a pak-a-pu
bank in Sydney owned an idol in which un-
limited confidence was placed ; presents were
perpetually being made by devout worshippers
and the appropriate kind of hungers exploded
in front of the pedestal. Then suddenly the
bank began to experience a run of atrociously
bad luck, and “ten-mark” ticket after ticket
got home. After several weeks of this a
meeting of the Chinese equivalent of vestry-
men decided, after hours of excited debate,
the god had lost his punch. The inefficient
joss was kicked violently out into the back
yard, and a new one purchased at a high figure
was duly installed in the room behind the
bank. The Chinaman who told me about it
mentioned that the pak-a-pu establishment
very soon recouped its losses under the new
regime.
* # * *
“Narara”: Most places where tiny pieces
of metal are likely to get into human eyes
(B. 30/10/’29) have a “licker,” whose ser-
vices are eagerly availed of by sufferers. H'e
is a man who has become proficient at remov-
ing anything from the eye with the tip of his
tongue, and he can generally do it as deftly
and quickly as a surgeon with the most
delicate instrument. In some few foundries
the licker has been known to insist on a
small payment every time his services are
requisitioned, but this type is rare.
* * * ' ijc
“Strict Veg.” : Melbourne and . environs
got a mild taste of what modern armaments
are like the other morning when the Aus-
tralia and the Canberra indulged in some
target practice inside the Heads, using their
Sin. guns. Although the mimic battle took
place 30 miles down the bay, windows were
rattled at Heidelberg, seven miles north of
the city; and at Lilydale, Dame Melba’s
parish, 40 miles from Melbourne, the citi-
zens rushed into the street, and the local
correspondent of the Argus despatched a
wire announcing another earthquake, a
genuine one having hit the town only a few
weeks ago. Indignant- suburbanites ’phoned
the Navy Office asking what it meant by
the disturbance. The charges used were only
a fraction of those reserved for serious occa-
sions, so the city got off lightly.
UNIQUE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I do not know of any star
That singled out my birth;
I am no shining avatar
Of wonders strange to earth.
Yet singular I feel, elate
As that outstanding pup
Whose tail was proudly duplicate—
I did not see the Cup.
By superhuman effort some
Attain a distant goal;
By straight and strenuous ways they come
To mountain-top or pole.
A dreadful hazard oft has won
The right with fame to sup.
“Something attempted, something done” —
I did not see the Cup.
At solitary eminence
Man aims a long life through;
He cultivates some difference
As piquant as it’s new
That sets him on a lonely peak,
Above the herd high up,
Austere, tremendous and unique—
/ did not sec the Cup.
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


“Beaconsfield”: The young man sitting in
the tram opposite me sneezed violently. The
next moment he was writhing in agony and
calling on everyone in the compartment to
give his arm a tug. The sneeze had thrown
his shoulder out of joint. He told us that
he had dislocated it some years before, and
ever since any little thing like this would
put it out of gear. Once. pulled back into
place the limb gave him no discomfort. “It’s
a good job he didn’t cough,” remarked the
saturnine conductor, “or he might have broke
his neck.”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Fishermen in Port Phillip Bay
had reason to bless the Australian Navy
during its recent mobilisation in the vicinity
of the Mel-
bourne Cup.
T h e practice
gunfire drove
the snapper in-
shore in shoals.
Huge catches
have been made
within a quar-
ter of a mile of
the beach. It
has been the
best season for
20 years.
THE ONLY THING TO DO.
“So you weren’t going out with young Carshiek long before
you found him sadly wanting. Well, what did you do
about it?”
“Left him sadly wanting, of course.”
“Boulder Block”: In the early days of the
W.A. goldfields, when there was a brisk
demand for the services of justices of the
peace, some queer mistakes were made by
the Perth Government in _ the allocation of
commissions. At least twice the distinction
went not to the citizen for whom it was
intended, but to another man of the same
name and of about equal prominence in the
community. That such a thing should have
occurred in the case of two Smiths was per-
haps not surprising, but in the second in-
stance the name, prefaced with a Mac, was
a much less frequent one. In both cases
the error was not found out immediately, and
when it was placed beyond doubt the Govern-
ment, sooner than face a storm of ridicule,
decided to sit tight and make the best of a
bad job. Some years later officialdom was
guilty of a far worse blunder when, through
some confusion of identities rather than
names, a man w T lio had not long before served
a stiff sentence in gaol was suddenly gazetted
a J.P. for one of the districts in the Wheat
Belt. This time there was such a hulla-
balloo that the appointment was cancelled
as hurriedly as it had been made.
# * * *
“Strict Veg.”: The referendum idea has
spread to the schools now. At my boy’s
seminary the headmistress asked all the
pupils assembled whether Cup Day should
be declared a holiday. The remarkable
thing is that the Noes had it.
:!: : i : %
“Isharagi”: November 11 still recalls to
me the Armistice celebrations in Palestine.
Our own little armistice with
Turkey, signed 11 days be-
fore, had been taken quietly,
for we all knew the Turks
were welL beaten. When the
Big Event came we were
camped at Richon-le-Zion,
where the winery did a roar-
ing trade, while the Engi-
neers created a miniature
earthquake with explosives
which were no longer re-
quired for blowing up
bridges, and, incidentally,
caused all the horses in the
vicinity to stampede. Thou-
sands of rifles were fired into
the air, and one man, a mile
away, was seriously wound-
ed by a falling bullet. The
Jewish children marched
through the village carrying
candles and singing in Heb-
rew. But the star item was
put over by our dispatch-
riders, who wrote the word
“Peace” in three-foot letters
with petrol on the sandy
ground before the Synagogue.
A match was applied to each
letter, and in the pitch-dark
village, with the crowd of
civilian and soldier specta-
tors, the momentous word burned impres-
sively for 10 minutes.
$ . $ * *
“Bouragi”: Fiji, which has not seen an
aeroplane since Ross Smith dropped in on
the wings of the morning, is to have a per-
manent resident. This is a Gypsy Moth
purchased by N. S. Chalmers, magistrate
at Ba, 150 miles from Suva, on the opposite
side of Vita Levu. There is no travelling
across country, ahd the trip round by boat
takes three days. As the Moth flies, the
journey will take three hours. Things must
be looking up in the Colonial Office. When
the writer worked for it his screw left
him barely enough, when the monthly bills
for whisky, quinine and bullumacow were
settled, to buy mothballs, let alone Moth
’planes.
* * * *
“Barra”: I recall one genuine truce in
Mesopotamia (B. 23/10/’29). It was on
January 22, the day after the battle of
Uramrel-Hannah, where our attack on a
strongly entrenched enemy had been preceded
by an utterly inadequate bombardment, and
the thin lines of our assaulting infantry were
swept away like chaff. Hundreds of our
wounded lay out on the rain-soaked mud-flat
between the lines, struggling to keep their
heads above the overflow from the Suwacha
Marsh. Early in the morning two
white flags appeared, one in front of
our trenches, the other near the
enemy’s lines. Carrying-parties from
both sides were out all day, bringing
in the dead and the few wounded who
still survived. Arab irregulars had
been .busy during the night, and most
of the dead had been stripped naked;
some had been mutilated. The Turks
kept the truce fairly well, but their
Arab friends attacked a number of our
men who became separated from their
parties. When the
white flags were
taken down, just be-
fore dusk, the truce
officially ended, but
hardly a shot was
fired during the night.
* *
“X.S.” ; : What are
a woman’s necessaries?
A Melbourne Judge
had to answer this
question the other day
when a solicitor
sought to recover from
a husband the costs of
his wife’s endeavor .to
get a judicial separa-
tion from her. In the
middle of the proceed-
ings the lady had sud-
denly discovered that
she wanted to live
with her spouse again,
and a reconciliation
was effected. Her
lawyer had tried to
impress upon the hus-
band that he ought to
pay for the cost of his
wife’s action up to the
moment of the recon-
ciliation, but the hus-
band couldn’t see it
that way. The Judge
granted the Gent. One
portion of his fees,
but ruled that he must
forego the costs of the
action to recover.
“Weka” : Reminiscences of buried treasure
recall my early days in the M.L. backblocks,
when one of the sights of our district was
old Herena, a wahine believed to be a nona-
genarian ; in her scarlet garibaldi she was
a permanent blot of color on the river bank.
As Herena was also believed by her relatives
to be fabulously wealthy, and as she sat year
in and out on the river margin, the idea
grew that her wealth was mainly buried
somewhere around. Herena used to pay an
annual visit to town, and her coach had no
sooner turned the bend than the entire tribe,
assisted by sundry pakehas, would organise a
digging expedition, and persevere with it
from daylight until dark. They never found
what they were looking for, and when, after
the busiest day in their year, they were dotted
about the landscape in the last stages of
exhaustion, the coach would rumble up and
land Herena. It was impossible for her
not to notice the acre or so of newly-turned
soil, but Maori etiquette forbade any mention
of the upheaval, so with an air of complete
indifference Herena would resume her place
on the river bank, and smoke peacefully for
another ■ year. She died without revealing
whether she had money in the bank or not.
NOT A MATTER FOR A SPOT DIAGNOSIS.
TRAFFIC-CONSTABLE REYNOLDS: “Is this your car?”
ARDENT MOTORING DOCTOR ( after surveying the ruins) : “I wouldn’t like to express an
opinion, old chap, until it’s been analysed.”
“Adelaide”: Frederick Carr, convicted of
wife-murder in Adelaide, was kept in doubt
as to his fate for more than half of the
month reserved between a death sentence and
its execution. A strong deputation, mostly
Labor, argued with the Liberal Ministry
against the death penalty in general; but
the real ground for doubt in the particular
case was whether the man was not too dead
drunk to know what happened when his
wife’s throat was cut. That might have
opened up another interminable argument
on the question whether the prisoner knew
that he had a quarrelsome disposition when
drunk. One man put some such point to a
well-known Sydney alienist. He was afraid
some day, he said, that he might do damage
in his cups; did the alienist think he would
be legally responsible? “Well,” said the
alienist, almost duplicating what Forbes
Winslow, the Englishman, had said in some-
what similar circumstances, “if you kill a
man when you’re in that state I shall do my
best to get you hanged.” In the Adelaide
case they decided to let the hanging go on.
“Nakhoda”: A curious case of absentee
landlordism raking in the grossest profits was
revealed at a recent meeting of the Brighton
(Vic.) council. Brighton’s foreshore is lined
with rows of private bathing-boxes, leaning
all ways, painted every color of the rainbow
and a few others, and frequently minus locks
and even doors. These erections not only
enhance the beauty of the seascape, but pro-
vide a more or iess luxurious retreat for
lovers, stout-and-oyster parties and derelicts
in general. It was not on this score, however,
that a councillor raised his voice in protest.
It appears that the council charges a rent
of only 30s. per annum for the right to
occupy the public sands with these elegant
seraglios, and it has suddenly been discovered
that many of the owners no longer live in
Brighton. One, it was stated, has long ago
departed to Maoriland, from whence he levies
a weekly rental of six shillings for a box that
probably cost him £2O.
* * * *
“Mirrool” : How thoroughlv the aeroplane
has entered into the life of the saltbush! I
was talking to a High School teacher whose
job is on one of the Murrumbidgee irriga-
tion settlements and whose people are at
Broken Hill. She said she could often run
home now. “But you’ve got to go a long
way round?” I suggested. “Oh, no, we
always do it by ’plane. . There’s a regular
service between Broken Hill and Griffith.”
But the air services are not without terrors
for the back-country ladies, for all that.
Of 11 passengers on a recent long flight 10
suffered more or less from air-sickness—
several of them more. A couple who in
the first half-hour were going to buy a Moth
of their own when they got home would have
murdered anybody who suggested it in the
last half-hour—if they had felt strong enough
to murder anything more robust than a
sandfly.
* * * *
“Feysville”: A somewhat nebulous cable
from London appeared the other day to the
effect that certain Yorkshire textile magnates
were making up their minds to spend a mil-
lion and a half of money in securing a
million acres of land in Australia and grow-
ing wool thereon more economically than
the average pastoralist. The land, it was
added, was at or near the Hampton Court
estate. Whatever the merits or otherwise of
the project, the locality referred to is almost
certainly the Hampton Plains estate in West-
ralia, a large tract of country to the south
and south-east of Kalgoorlie that was
acquired by an English company in the
’eighties. The owners have done little with
their holding to this day, although had their
boundaries stretched a little further in one
direction the Golden Mile would have been
on their land. Gold has been found in various
places, but Hie finds and rushes never came
to much. Nine or ten years ago the reports
of prospectors and the exuberant optimism
of promoters started a boom in alleged gold-
mines on a portion of the estate, and it was
about the maddest boom, and one that left
the least to show when it was over, of all
which have been staged at Kalgoorlie. It
may be the destiny of the country to carry
sheep, but even in that direction its possibili-
ties are very limited.
“Hinemoa” : In the King Country (M.L.)
the chewing-gum craze has driven school-
teachers nearly frantic. The adhesive stuff
is parked on desks, tables and chairs, and
often on a molar while its owner is try-
ing to read or recite. Lately the word
went out that scholars bringing chewing-gum
into school would be punished. Things im-
proved a bit, but one Maori maid was spotted
busily masticatingi the forbidden stuff during
class. “Hine,” said the teacher, sternly,
“take that chewing-gum out of your mouth
and throw it away.” Hine burst into tears.
“Please, teacher,” she sobbed, ‘“I cannot
throw it away. It belongs to my friend
Huia Ivahora. I am minding it for her.”
* * # *
“Alwyn”: Somebody has just discovered
that a clock installed in the N. S. Wales
Assembly room 77 years ago possesses 72
gradations, instead of the regulation 60.
There are some even less conventional time-
pieces around Sydney. Thousands pass the
Paddington Town Hall daily without notic-
ing that one face of the clock is not marked
with the figures 1‘ to 12. The side facing
Oxford-street bears the inscription “Edward-
us VII,” so placed that the VII appears
in its correct position on the dial. The clock
on the Customs House, facing Circular Quay,
is noteworthy in that the figure 4 is marked
IV and not 1111. The dial of the G.P.O.
clock does not bear any figures at all, merely
broad strokes for each hour.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Sacco, the international fam-
inist, has passed away at Blackpool (Eng.),
the cause of his death being ascribed to the
eating of a couple of loin chops too soon
after the completion of a record fast of 68
days. When Sacco finished a fast of 45
days in Adelaide about 1911 he proceeded
direct to the Town Hall, where he consumed
two beefsteaks, a milk pudding and several
glasses of stout before the gaze of a large
audience. He suffered no ill-effects then, but
his untimely end is doubtless due to long
abuse of his system’s power o'f recuperation.
Like a garter that has been pulled over too
many stockings, the stomach becomes inelas-
tic if stretched too often and too far.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Chief Justice Murray, of S.A.,
has been trying to make the punishment fit
the crime. Three sisters, nurses at an
asylum, were caught after three years of
consistent thieving from it. They got two
years each. Then the Court inquired into
their assets. They had disposed of every-
thing ; but about £6O was due to them from
a superannuation fund, and this was con-
fiscated as “costs to the Crown.”
:i= * *
“Stellsby”: “Ask the second engineer for
the key of the kelson,” used to be a frequent
errand for the new hand at sea. Another
one was “Hop down to the engine-room and
get a bucket of revolutions.” But the limit
was: “The chief engineer’s compliments to
Captain Blowhard, and he is prepared to
burn the official log now.” The joker was
generally logged in dead earnest for that one.
It is tantamount to the Navy crime of
“silent contempt.”
“Ex-Loco”: We had our tricks to play
on new hands, too. In the old days when
our engines were resplendent in green and
gold the raw engine-cleaner was provided
by his seniors with false soles for his boots.
These were made of pieces of old Bin. hose
opened out and tied on to the feet of the
newchum lest he should “scratch the paint
with his bare boots!” Another bait was for
a fireman on his first trip. Approaching a
curve he would be instructed by the driver
to work the hand-brake and so guide the
locomotive safely round the bend. But a
driver with a green fireman usually found
it enough to look after his real w r ork with-
out playing pranks.
THE DISMISSAL DISCOURTEOUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Save your money, visit a brain specialist. Intend
to have the other Boy—a man, not a rotter.”
—Argus agony ad.
Damsels there are —I’ve read about them
often —
So sympathetic that they never would
Neglect a turned-down suitor’s pangs to
soften
By promising synthetic sisterhood.
“I cannot marry you,” they’d tell you nicely,
“But warmest friends for ever we’ll
remain.”
This Dulcinea doesn’t seem precisely
That sort of jane.
What was it you expressed a wish to get
her—
I find it hard conjectures to resist —
With money she unkindly thinks you’d better
Devote to visiting an alienist?
A ring? A document you buy by feeing ‘
A registrar or someone wdtk a cure
Of souls? Ah, now you see what comes of
being
Too premature.
Still, she must be as heartless as a Gorgon,
Else had she found a gentler way to point
Out that an erstwhile lover’s nasal organ,
As far as she’s concerned, is out of joint.
Hard to be jilted ; harder far and hotter,
Enough one’s faith in womankind to
blight,
This downright inference that you’re a
rotter,
In black and white.
What did you do to merit it, I wonder,
That your dream castles she should thus
destroy,
Cut you in this insulting way asunder
And find her soul-mate in “the other boy”?
What did you say that she should do the
firing
With eyes that flash and lips in scorn that
curl,
The verdict in a two-line ad. transpiring?
No matter. Better set about acquiring
Another girl.
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


COMMONWEALTH 5i PER CENT LOAN 1934
AMOUNT ASKED FOR
£10,000,000
, Interest, 51 per cent.
Price of Issue, £9B.
Period of Loan, 5 Years.
AVERAGE ANNUAL
INTEREST,
£5 14/4 per cent.
The Loan is issued by the Commonwealth Government on behalf of the Govern-
ments of the Commonwealth and the States.
Subscriptions may be paid in full at the time of application, or by instalments—
the last of which is payable on February 3, 1930.
Banks will not charge exchange on cheques for payments into the Loan.
Interest will be paid from the date of lodgment of moneys.
Bonds, payable to bearer, or Stock may be purchased. Bonds will be issued for
£lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO or £lOOO. Stock will be inscribed for £lOO and multiples of
£lO above £lOO.
Interest will be subject to Commonwealth Income Tax, but free of all State Income
Taxes.
Trustees are authorised to invest in the Loan.
Applications may be lodged at any Bank, State Savings Bank, Money Order Post
Office or with any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
The Loan will be closed not later than Monday, December 16, 1929, the Treasurer
reserving the right to close the Loan at any time before that date and to refuse
subscriptions.
Commonwealth Treasury,
November 7, 1929.
EDWARD G. THEODORE,
Treasurer.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Show Boat”
Criterion “Lombardi, Ltd.”
* ALACE J.C.W. World’s Entertainers
t3TATB Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
" OYAL “Hold Everything”
New Comedy “Brewster’s Millions”
King’s “Whoopee”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Movies and Talkies
Sta tb Movies and Talkies
Olympia Wirths’ Circus
One of the most ticklesome and other-
wise engaging shows on at the moment in
Sydney is that staged in the new wing of
the Mitchell Library and called the Dixsou
Gallery. With only one or two exceptions
the pictures that fill it represent early Aus-
tralia. Most were bought before Australiana
had a world value; at to-day’s prices they
are worth about £250,000. William Dixson,
who has made a life hobby of collecting
them, handed them over gratis, and a won-
derful gift to a nation they are.
Artistically, most of them are junk,
Pickersgill’s full-length portrait of Henry
Goulburn and a wall of moderately small
landscape by S. Elyard standing out pretty
clearly from a considerable mass of crudity.
Actually, however, these are not the show
pieces. Honor there goes to such things as
John Webber’s hackneyed “Death of Captain
Cook,” to appreciate the merit of which one
lias to pass on to another version of the
same event, wherein the Islanders are whites,
arrayed in Roman togas and carrying the
shields and blades that did their jobs round
about Troy. T. Phillips’s “Joseph Banks”
is another of the choice things and a much
superior painting, and another, miraculously
inferior, is T. Walling’s “Sydney Cove,”
painted in the settlement’s seventh year
(1794); according to a footnote, “direct from
nature.” The “from” is no exaggeration,
though the distance in leagues might add
piquancy. A Joshua Reynolds version of
Captain Cook is an interesting item in a fair
to middling portrait gallery.
The humor is not all of the unconscious
variety, and anyone with a sense for it will
probably linger long over S. T. Gill’s “First
Subscription Ball at Ballarat.” It is a fine
bit of fun. The ball is mostly bottles, with
some bibulous backs for foreground, a boozey-
looking bunch of dancers, and a magnificent
orchestra of about seven standing on a three-
foot wide balcony to the right of the
hall, with a couple of bottle-laden
members trying to get up the stairs
to their companions and a fiddler staggering
gracelessly down. No Artists’ Ball in modern
EVE ORMONDE, with Leon Gordon at Melbourne Royal.
Sydney has got within miles of it. The same
artist proves that he was able to see what a
horse looked like, which is more than can be
said for G. Rowe, whose “First Victorian
Race Meeting” is being won by a splendid
chestnut, at least 29 feet long. If only that
other chestnut, Phar Lap, had been bred on
those lines!
From a painting point of view the show is
most interesting for the clumsy efforts that
were made at capturing Australian land-
scape. Here and there a tree looks something
like the real thing, but most of Australia’s
early shrubbery was apparently imported for
the benefit of daubers. The show lias a
modern touch or two, including a portrait
of Lawson and Phil May’s “That’s Me When
I’m Old.” A good sporting picture is T. 11.
Lewis’s view of a cricket match in Hyde
Park, wherein a standing crowd outlines the
oval. But cricket has gone to the dogs since
then, even if our painting lias improved a bit.
* * *
“Passing Brompton Road,” more an
excuse for airing the wit of Brandon Thomas
than a play, has kept two audiences in a
loud state of titter at St. James’s Hall, Syd-
ney, where it has been introduced to Aus-
tralia by the Vagabonds. The piece is of
a kind that .suits this party of amateur
players perfectly. Scarcely any of the cast
suggest that they might manage stronger
fare better, but several of them, notably
Cedric Kempsou, can do strikingly well in
the light and airy. George Gordon could
bring more emphasis, suavity or whatever
will make a stage solicitor convincing to
the part of Montgomery, who has to be won
over by a gate-crasher into helping her to
a sensational divorce —the means she has
adopted as a last resource for getting her-
self accepted by society.
Gate-crasher Dultitia Sloane, a part ori-
ginally played by Marie Tempest in Eng-
land, is well managed by Ruby Coxliead.
She is happily cast, and so is Ivempson as
George Harding, a slightly deaf young man
about town, who, as the best friend of Mrs.
Sloane’s husband, is prevailed upon to act
the unrewarded co-respondent. Ivempson is
consistently good. The whole substance of
the play is that a secretary for Sloane, whom
solicitor Montgomery provides to do the
observing and eventually be principal wit-
ness, is, to Mrs. Sloane’s distress, a girl with
whom Sloane carries on a purposeful flirta-
tion that raises neurotic Mrs. Sloane’s jeal-
ousy. The closing scene, in which young
Sloane, called down from Oxford by his
mother, cross-examines the truth out of her,
gives Ruby Coxliead her best chance to act,
and she rises to it very well. George Stokes,
as the elder Sloane, is good without being
impressive, and so is Clive Coppard as the
younger. Eve Rosengarthen, as a super-
fluous social reformer with private frailties,
does best of the others. The laughable, arti-
ficiality is neatly produced and stage man-
aged by George Gordon.
* # *
In the celebrated match Intellectual
Drama v. the Commercial Stage, Beresford
Fowler is now not out 50. He 'signalised
his half-century by knocking Galsworthy's
“ Justice” to leg for
two at the Queen’s
Hall, Melbourne,
amidst prolonged
applause from a
pavilion which
contained approxi-
mately 150 specta-
tors, its full capa-
city. “Justice” is
over 20 years old,
but had never been
performed in Mel-
bourne previously.
Its performance
in England
is said to have
caused a reform in
John Bull’s penal
system'. It is a
strong play and
carries its age
easily.
William Falder,
the law clerk who
forges a cheque in
order to rescue his
loved one from the
clutches of a brutal
husband, was in
the hands of the
sincere and artis-
tic Eric Donald,
who powerfully
conveyed the hor-
rors of separata
confinement on a
sensitive soul in
the famous scene
without dialogue.
Mollie Locke, usu-
ally to be relied on
to lift any play
into the realms of
reality, was badly
cast her pro-
nounced personal-
ity conflicting with
the claims of
Mrs. Honeywill to be a helpless vic-
tim of domestic tyranny. The trial
of _ Falder was in the ' hands of the
politest legal luminaries who ever donned
silk, though the forensic eloquence of
Norman Heymanson, wdio was briefed for.
the defence, moved everybody but the jury.
In spite of the limitations 'of a stage not
much more capacious than a summer house,
the. court scene was sufficiently impressive
until Mr. Fowler fell out of it into the audi-
ence. Mr. Fowler’s impersonation of Coke-
son was effective, though he took some liber-
ties with the last lines of the play which did
not strengthen the final curtain.
The final performance of the Vic. Prof.
Orchestra, before its transfer to St. Kilda,
ended in a blaze of
glory, the Audi-
torium, shortly to
be converted to the
talkies, being-
packed from floor
to ceiling. The fea-
ture of the evening
was what is claim-
ed to be the first
performance in Aus-
tralia of Liszt’s
“Todentanz,” b y
Henri Penn, the
noted pianist, of
Sydney. How this
example of Papa
Liszt’s ingenuity
came to. be over-
looked so long, one
doesn’t know. It
is a trifle dull, but
it gives a compe-
tent pianist abun-
dant opportunities
for displaying the
sort of manual
dexterity that
makes the audi-
ence lift the roof
off. Popper’s Hun-
garian Rhapsody,
by ’cellist Louis
Hattenbach, wa s
another noteworthy,
item, and included
in a cosmopolitan
array of talent
w e r e violinists
Stanislaw T a r-
czynski and Hel-
muth von Hoff-
man. By sticking
to their seats till
nearly eleven the
huge audience de-
monstrated that at
two shillings and
one there is a de-
mand for good
music in Melbourne.
Adelaide Regent, after screening pictures
ot the Mayoral garden party, had the happy
tnought of resurrecting a similar scene of
pre-war vintage. Masculine styles have
changed curiously little; in fact, cynics
claim that some of the coats are still being
worn. But as a presentment of women
taking obvious pride in long skirts and big
hats that ‘the charwoman wouldn’t be seen
dead m to-day, the show is full of charm.
A quite unexpected feature was the appear-
ance of George Reid, a most substantial
ghost among the revellers.
After long waiting, Adelaide got its first
look at Dear Brutus” in a three-nights’
rendering by the Repertory. Barrie has
imitated Gilbert at times, but with his own
whimsicality showing too. The acting was
too sound to particularise, all hands playing
up finely to Ray Walsh while he held the
house in his awakening scene. Betty Daw-
son, a clever youngster, scored as his dream-
daughter, and Helen Seeck, the tennis-player,
is a valuable recruit, with a booming voice
that overcomes the modern inaudibility—
which may be the Victoria Hall’s fault. But
all were good.
* . * *
“Brewster’s Millions,” at Melbourne Royal,
serves to demonstrate the versatility required
of actors. Those Who accompany Leon
Gordon on his stage voyage in the yacht
Flitter have to be good sailors. Several
aspirants for posts have had to be rejected
because it was found at rehearsal that they
could not see the second act through without
requiring the ministrations of the steward—
arid there is no provision in the play for a
steward.
* * *
There was a quaint dual demonstration of
the modern art mechanical when a sound
picture was made of child pianist Nancy
Weir in a Melbourne broadcasting studio,
which simultaneously transmitted the per-
formance to listeners-in. Nancy was billed to
play one of her own compositions, written
when she was 10. The operator shouted
for silence, the machine softly whirred and
the pianist began. She had played a couple
of bars when a spectator, who had gradually
been getting purple in the face, burst into
an uncontrollable fit of coughing. The opera-
tor yelled “Stop!” and the performance was
repeated. It would have been a severe ordeal
even for a Paderewski, but Nancy faced the
four eyes of the camera with the
same composure with which she con-
fronted 7000 human optics at the Town
Hall recently.
There was no lack of variety in the vocal
fare set before her hearers by Cecile Adkins
at Sydney Uni. Con. the other night. The
young soprano, who enunciates clearly,
dead true to pitch, tackled the profundities
of Brahms and Schubert, the florid orna-
mentation of such Neapolitans as Scarlatti
and Paradies, the square-cut measures of Wil-
liam Byrd and the wayward strains of a
LILY LEONHARD, who wrecks the Woman Haters’ Club at
Sydney Palace.
group of English moderns. Of special
interest was the “Pano Moruna” of De Falla,
one of those Italian compositions, long
buried, that have recently been resurrected,
phrases intelligently and produces her notes
There were folk-songs too —French, Slovak
and Lincolnshire, A very pleasant recital.
* * *
Frank O’Brian’s bright show at Sydney
Fullers’ continues to distract the attention
of a worried populace from the increasing
price of beer and crays. The latest perpetra-
tion is entitled “Laughter Unlimited” and is
much like most of its predecessors only
more so, especially in the matter of japes,
which have all the appearance of an ancient
vintage rebottled.
¥ * ¥
Wal Rockley and Ward Lear have joined
the old-time minstrel show at Sydney Opera
House. Old-timers Marie Maxwell and
Louie Duggan, whose combined youthful
looks are bringing the baldheads back to the
stalls, sing with astounding vim, and Peggy
Pryde is more peggy prydish than ever. Fred
Bluett’s bibulous buffoonery caps a hearty
bill.
¥ ¥ ¥
At Brisbane Royal the Bramleys stage
“Drought,” an out-back Bananaland drama
wherein Nellie Bramley, as an English bride,
finds life hard. As a boundary rider, Ronald
Riley does everything except impart an
aroma of pigskin. The death of the com-
pany’s ex-leading man, Kyrle McAllister,
who was killed in a motor accident,
threAV his fiancee, Bebe Scott, out of
the cast.
* * *
Circumstances, which include the talkies,
hadn’t made any perceptible difference to
the Greatest Show on Earth when The
Bulletin paid its second visit to Olympia
in Melbourne. The Lias troupe of acrobats
continue to be an entertainment in them-
selves and the Polar bears have got oyer
their sulks. When the leader of the tribe
climbs ponderously on to his tub he looks
for all the world like a stout politician in
a fur coat and the state of mental con-
fusion common to stout politicians.
** * .
Owing to popular demand “The Woman
Who Laughed at Faery” will repeat her
mirthful impertinence at Melbourne Play-
house on Nov. 28. Kathleen Goodall. Violet
Colahan, Dawn Harding and Len Brewer
treated Fritz Hart’s delightful fantasy with
such discretion that the management sees
no reason to make any alterations in the
cast. A Beethoven opus, played by the
newly-formed and excellent body the Sisser-
man quartet, will precede the opera.


w


Rone: 0
DIARY
FOR 1930
Now Ready,
Has
a Page
for
Every Day
Cloth
Bound, Gold
Lettered.
Size, 9§ x 6 V
IDEAL
XMAS
GIFT
Price 10/-
Post, 1/- extra.
ytuyu
RONEO CO. Ltd., 21 Hunter St., Sydney.
The “Explosives” House
Explosives and Accessories of All Kinds
Supplied at Lowest Prices.
Manufacturers of
RENDROCK,
The Safest, Cheapest and Most Effective High Explosive Known.
Can be forwarded by Rail or Steamer at ordinary rates of freight.
Blasting Machines, Steel Rock Drills.
GUTHRIDGE LIMITED f 10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company, Limited.
Founded 1886.
Assets at 31st December, 1928,
£18,792,732
of which 84% was represented by
Public Securities.
The M.L.C. Charter is constituted to
admit of the issue of policies to meet
the necessities of every class, every age.
every purse. Its range of contracts is
unsurpassed for diversity and liberality,
and the fulfilment of every contract is
guaranteed by the Company’s capital
and its ever-increasing assurance Funds.
CASH SURPLUS in the Ordinary
Branch for the year 1928, £624,370.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
Head Office: Citizens’ Building, Castlereagh
Street and Martin Place, Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
Written
June, Loss. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
£ £ £
192] . . 5,008 257,623
Charged to Development account, £45,777 303,400
Debenture Flotation Costs . . £29,860 333,260
Profit.
1922.. 105,593 29,000 256,667
sss™ o«r ,o "'." e ” t £S - S,S i *»,<*»
Pref. Shares.
1923.. 398,073 8 p.c. = £149,115* 92,304 108,367
Vote to Kisdon Co-op. Council, £7,500 115,867
All Shares.
1924.. 461,953 9 p.C. = 169,131 212,020 f 35,065
Reserves.
1925.. 542,109 10 ~ „ 216,269 148,536 142,240
Charged to ■Development, £7172 .. 135,068
1926-.. 557,029 12 p.c. = 311,845 133,205 247,047
1927.. 544,007 12 „ „ 312,000 150,145 '329,509
Charged to Development, £1869 .. 828,140
1928.. 513,732 12 p.c. = 312.000 145,452 384,420
1929.. 513,660 12 p.c. = 312,000 138,828 447,262
♦lncluding arrears.
tineluding special amortisation reserve, £lOO,OOO.
Spelter is the co.’s chief line, and, of course,
a falling market does earnings no good.
Still, the figures suggest that the po.’s con-
tract with the British Government lias been
a wonderful shock-absorber. For the 12
months to June 30 the average market price
of spelter (£25 14s. 9d.) fell 12s. 4d. per
ton —the drop was £5 IDs. Bd. a ton in the
previous year—yet no difference worth men-
tioning showed up in the disclosed result.
The gross profit on working account
(£009,697) was £3850 better ; exes. (£9(5,779)
were £1043 lighter. After setting aside
£145,000 'for amortisation, depreciation and
renewals, the accounts claimed a net profit
of £307,918, or £4893 more than the previous
year's.
The difference between the profit claimed
and the larger figure shown in the tablp is
accounted for in this way:—
Profit and loss balance .. .. .. £367,918
Unexplained addition to sinking fund . . 6,395
Additions to depreciation and renewals
reserve . . .. .. .. .. 138,828
Intangibles reduced .. .. .. 519
£513,660
Net additions to the reserve for depreciation
are included with profits in the table and
then written off. Last year's growth of
£138,838 in this reserve swelled its total to
£1,110,357, or 29.6 p.c. of the £3,740,745 at
which the mines, plant and equipment figured
at June 30 —with trifling exceptions they are
in at cost. After allowing for the writing
off, the balance of the year’s profit was 14.4
p.c. on the £2,600,000 of paid capital com-
pared with 14.1, 15.1, 16.3 and 15.1 p.c. back
to 1925, so the 12 p.c. div. remained an easy
matter. Thus the lay-by, which comprised
the general reserve (£340,000), debenture
sinking fund (£107,416) and balance of
appropriation account (£171,407), mounted
to £447,252 in excess of the £171,571 to
which the cost of research and development
had been written down—the figure was
£207,994 in 1921.
Though research, etc., has called for a lot
of money, the success attained in recoveries
lias made the outlay worth while. The co.’s
spelter, sells at a premium on account of its
very superior quality—it is 99.9 p.c. pure—
and returns from the various by-products to-
gether make a very substantial contribution
to the pool. The progress made in produc-
tion and recoveries since 1923 is seen in this
comparison:—
Cad-
Zinc Silver Lead mium Copper
Tons. Oz. Tons. Tons. Tons.
1923.. 31,283 691,062 4344
1924.. 44,768 890,500 6805 154 257
1925.. 46,929 929,500 7030 168 256
(926.. 46,583 1,179,000 8000 180 261
1927.. 48,605 1,134,000 7620 150 243
1928.. 49,117 994,000 7340 162 229
1929.. 50,001 806,000 6889 176 212
The year’s improvement in the zinc output
was mainly the result of better practice,
while the increased recovery of cadmium was
due to the treatment of flue-dust from the
Associated Smelters at Port Pirie. The co.’s
own silver-lead residues are sent back to
Pirie, where they are desired on account of
their fluxing qualities. But owing to advances
in recoveries made by the Barrier mining
cos. there is nowadays not so much lead
and silver left in the zinc concentrates.
As an offset against the handicap which
threatens when tlie co.’s contract with the
British Board of Trade for the purchase of
zinc concentrates expires, the capacity of the
Kisdon plant is to be increased to give 30
p.c. more output. What the extensions are
likely to cost has not been mentioned, but
shareholders will not be asked to assist in
connection with the present programme, com-
pletion of which is expected to take about
IS months. The Risdon works will then
call for an extra 10,000 h.p., or 50,000 h.p.
in all, from the Tasmanian Government's
hydro-electric undertaking.
Closely associated with the production of
zinc is the manufacture of sulphuric acid,
which is obtained from the roasting of the
concentrates. The co. is interested in a net-
work of roasters operated in conjunction
with super, works owned by various fertil-
iser cos. on the mainland. These acid plants
turned out 01,684 tons mono last year, or
0043 tons more than in the previous year.
At Risdon mono production was a normal
7187 tons ; there the acid is used in the co.’s
own super, works, which began earning in
11)24. Super, production and sales have
since behaved in this way:—
1925. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Tons. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Production .. 12,305 20,524 24,796
Sales .. .. 7,090 19,811 22,572 21,771
The shrinkage in last year’s sales was due
to adverse seasonal conditions. The demand
can be confidently expected to grow in the
future. During the term the co. bought a
quarter interest in Australian Fertilisers
Pty., Ltd., which has works at Port Kembla
(N.S.W.) and a strong connection in Queens-
land.
At Rosebery, on the Tas. West Coast, the
co.’s new mill building is just about complete ;
but the plant, which is to treat 100,000 tons
of galena-blende pyrite ore per annum from
the Rosebery-Hercules Mines, is not expected
to be ready for its first feed until April
next. A 41-mile aerial tramway will bring
the ore from mines to mill. The year’s opera-
tions were confined mainly to development;
only 39,152 tons ore was raised. The average
assay was 21.7 p.c. zinc, 5.9 p.c. lead, 7.40 z.
silver and l.Sdwt. gold. Ore reserves were
estimated at a minimum 1,400,000 tons a
couple of years back, but new bodies since
probed in the Hurcules have added consider-
ably to that figure. At one point the new ore
body is 01ft. wide and assays 32 p.c. zinc,
0.5 p.c. lead, ll.loz. silver and l.Tdwt. gold.
The concentrates will be railed to Burnie
and then shipped to Risdon. The new. mill
and mine equipment will probably call for
the best part of a quarter of a million of
money.
The next comparison shows the co.’s finan-
cial position :
1921. 1928. 1929.
Debentures and interest Nil £404,033 £404,033
Sundry creditors .. £38,604 132,351 114,085
Deposits and interest.. 177,150 30,556 203,294
Overdraft . . . . 158,079 40,838 68,523
Mt. Kead-Bosebery mines 357,673 423,621 442,205
Properties, plant and
equipment .. .. 1,030,523 3,141,015 3,298,540
Book debts .. . . 87,654 255,518 310,277
Shares .. .. .. 48,859 32,700 68,311
Stocks 420,427 503,839 459,335
Cash, etc 20,320 240,856 405,887
The year’s outlay on mine account was
£18,584, and on plant, etc., £157,525. Most
of the £182,157 added to the floating debt
(£385,902) was held in cash, etc., at June
30 (£405,887, up £165,031). The more or
less < liquids, excluding shares in other cos.,
totalled £1,175,499. In addition to the ferti-
liser interests, already referred to, the co.
took 10,000 £1 shares in Tasmanian Paper
Pty., acquired an interest in Imperial Chemi-
cal Industries, Imperial Smelting Corp. and
Synthetic Coal Oil Products Pty., Ltd. The
last-named concern is to experiment in a
large way with the extraction of oil from
local coals.
Capital is in 1,500,000 prefs. and 1,100,000
ords. The prefs. carry a cumulative 8 p.c.,
advance with the ords. in any distribution
beyond that rate, and have priority as to
capital. A few months back the prefs.
advanced sharply to 40s. 6d., but, following
the board’s announcement that shareholders
would not be invited to assist, the price
dropped back to 345. The ords. can be had
at a shilling less. At current prices the
returns are 7 p.c. and 7.2 p.c. respectively
on a 12 p.c. div. basis.
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £
Sept.,’l9. .130,012 61 p.c.=105,625 24,387 496,943
Mar., ’2O. .159.553 84 „„ 138,125 21,428 518,371
Sept., ’20.. 171,642 84 „ „ 138,125 33,517 551,888
Mar., ’2l. .155,297 9.37 „ 121,875 33,422 585,310
Sept.,’2l. .206,201 9.37 ~ 121,875 34,326- 669,636
Mar., ’22. .245,990 121 „ ~ 162,500 53,490 753,126
Sept., ’22. .247,195 124 „ ~ 162,500 84,695 837,821
Mar., ’23. .251,395 12| „ ~ 162,500 88,895 926,716
Mar., ’244.673,639 10 „ „ 446,875 226,764 1,153,480
Sept.,’24. .324,978 10 ~,,243,750 81,228 1,234,708
Mar., ’25. .435,676 121 „ ~ 304,688 130,987 1,365,695
Sept.,’2s. .404,628 124 „ „ 304,688 99,940 1,465,635
Mar., ’26. .396,104 121 „ „ 304,687 91,417 1,557,053
Sept., ’26. .408,444 124 ~ ~ 304,688 103,756 1,660,809
Mar., ’27. .424,353 124 „ „ 304,687 119,666 1,780,475
Reserves capitalised, £975,000 . . 805,475
Sept., ’27. .476,516 124 p.c.=365,625 110,891 916,366
Mar., ’2B. .490,112 124 „ „ 365,625 124,487 1,040,853
Sept.,’2B. .469,157 12J „ „ 365,625 103,532 1,144,385
Mar., ’29. .507,149 124 „ „ 365,625 141,524 1,285,909
Sept., ’29. .465,492 124 „ „ 365,625 99,867 1,385,776
•Exclusive of Replacement and Depreciation Fund.
tPeriod covered 12 months. Fiji and- Maoriland
cos. in process of liquidation. No Sept, balance-sheet
issued.
Tim collapse of prices in the world’s sugar
markets, due to over-production, affected the
co.’s earnings outside Australia; but much
of the sting was taken out of the blow by
Canadian and British preferences. Certainly
the declared net profit from the co.’s Maori-
land refinery and extensive interests in Fiji
(£l9! >,745) fell away £42,032 for the six
months to Sept. 30; still it was only £10,239
short of admitted net earnings from those
sources for the corresponding half of 1928.
For the 12 months to the close of last accounts
net earnings from all sources (£972,641) were
£13,372 better than the previous year’s;
thanks largely to expanding returns from the
co.’s activities in Australia, where it enjoys
a strongly protected market and has a lion’s
share of the trade.
Of course the 124 p.c. to shareholders offers
no difficulty, notwithstanding that it now
calls for £121,875 p.a. more than it did 24
years ago, when the last lot of bonus scrip
(£975,000) was scattered. Indeed, the posi-
tion is even better than the figures in the
table suggest; for in addition to formal
reserves totalling £1,385,776 at Sept. 30, there
was the replacement and depreciation fund,
to which £46,078 was added during the half-
year, raising it to £2,004,687, and it can
be taken for granted that some thick slices
of genuine profit have been put away there.
Nor is that all. Theiv was a further
£2,995,760 (up £20,118 during the six
months) in suspense accounts. These are
largely contingency reserves, and, since the
chairman says the co.’s outside liabilities
are all short dated, and are discharged by
the sale of sugar stocks, it is pretty certain
that those reserves, or most of them, are
genuine profit, too.
Since Federation there has been no halt in
the co.’s progress. What a wonderful money-
spinner it has been is illustrated by the fact
that bonus distributions total no less than
£7,325.000. Add £2,425,000 subscribed in
cash and you get a total of £9,750,000; but
£3,900,000 of that was returned when the
business of the Fiji and Maoriland subsi-
diary was re-absorbed by the parent after
the war, so the register now totals
£5,850,000.
The finances are, as usual, very snug. Here
is the position as balance-sheet figures dis-
closed it at Sept. 30: —
Refineries—Australia and Maorilanrl . . £2,871,350
Sugar mills and plant, etc. —-
Commonwealth . . • . • • 2,304,697
Fiji (leas £1,625,000 reserve) .... 1,254,894
Ocean steamers . . . . . . .. 100,000
Distillery '. . .. •• 119,175
Office premises . . . • • . .. 66,850
Stocks and some book debts . . .. 3,522,920
Other book debts, investments etc. .. 2,347,443
Cash, deposits, etc. ... .. .. 642,373
£13,289,702
Liabilities—-
Sundry creditors . . £642,365
Suspense accounts .. 2,995,760
Interim div., 1929 .. 365,625
4,003,750
Net assets .. .. .. •• ..£9,285,952
During the half-year £147,732 more was spent
on refineries than was written off, due
mainly to the new works on the river bank at
Perth ; these should be in use within the next
few weeks. The book value of the Fiji assets
was reduced £154,990, and that of the Aus-
tralian mills and plant £20,612. The board is
exceedingly fortunate in having a business
Which has enabled it to pay for most of
the assets out of earnings, and then from the
same .source to write down severely the chief
earnei's.
And what is more, the liquid surplus con-
tinues to climb in a most heartening way.
Look at these figures:—-
Sept.,’26. Sept.,’2B. Sept.,’29.
Liquid assets .. £5,232,917 £6,166,956 £6,512,736
Liabilities . . 3,223,373 3,583,208 3,638,125
Liquid surplus . . £1,999,544 £2,633,748 £2,874,611
Liabilities there include the suspense
accounts, hut not the employees’ provident
and benefit funds, which together totalled
£45,488 at Sept. 30. So, apart from addi-
tions made to fixed assets and the fat divi-
dends paid, shareholders are at least
£875,067 better off than they were three
years ago.
In the existing circumstances of the indus-
try in Australia, and with its very able man-
agement, it would he difficult for the C.S.R.
to avoid making good profits. How long the
co. will continue to he thus favored it is
impossible to say. There has been talk of
the British Government wiping out the pre-
ference on Empire-grown sugar, which would
affect the earnings mainly of the co.’s Fiji
assets, and of its Australian business in
relation to the, export surplus. But it is
now doubtful whether anything will be done
to disturb the present position.
In the investment market the scrip, the
price of which has been affected by the
recent general depression on the Stock
Exchange, can be had for £52 10s. as against
£6O 10s. a year ago. Thus the market mort-
gages the future a little less heavily than
it did ; the immediate return at the current
price is only 4.7 p.c. on a 12|- p.c. div. basis.
The visible backing amounts to £3l 11s. lid.
per share in net tangibles, including the re-
placement and depreciation fund. The sus-
pense accounts are equal to another £6 17s.
per share.
The United Insurance Co.
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. . serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 66,402 10 p.c. = 18,000 48,402 325,741
Transferred to capital, £20,000 .. 305,741
1920.. 90,906 10 p.c. = 22,500 68,406 374,147
Transferred to capital, £25,000 .. 349,147
1921.. 83,975 10 p.c. = 25,000 58,975 408,122
Transferred to capital, £50,000 • ■ 358,122
1922.. 58,862 10 p.c. = 30,000 28,862 386,984
Transferred to capital, £25,000 .. 361,984
1923.. 74,839 10 p.c. = 32,500 42,339 404,323
Transferred to capital, £25,000 . . 379.323
1924.. 74,711 10 p.c. = 35,000 39,711 419,034
Transferred to capital, £25,000 . . 394,034
1925.. 91,540 10 p.c. = 37,500 (44 046 438 080
To Pension Reserve, £lO,OOO ) ’
Transferred to capital, £25,000 . . 410,080
1926.. 60,321 10 p.c. = 40,000 26,321 439,401
Transferred to capital, £25,000 . . 4 11’t 1 ! 1
1927.. 66,748 10 p.c. = 42,500 24,248 438,645
Transferred to capital, £25,000 . . 413,649
1928.. 67,403 10 p.c. = 45,000 22,403 436,052
1929.. 66,862 10 „ „ 45,000 21,862 407,914
This Australasian fire and marine office with
Sydney headquarters has been in the busi-
ness 07 years. It has been a cautious under-
writer, and after paying a run of 12? p.c.
divs. had piled up reserves nearly 2| times
higher than the paid capital was in 3912.
Since then the policy has been to keep the div.
steady at 10 p.c. and hand out bonus scrip.
The fat profits won during the war years,
largely from marine underwriting, which, by
the way, was the co.’s strong prop in its
early days, made the position so strong that
bonus-giving was an annual event for 10
years to the close of accounts in 1927. Thus
£325,000 of the £450,000 of paid capital has
been provided out of surplus earnings since
1912. And the accumulations were still
£7914 in excess of paid capital at Sept. 30.
For the last 17 years interest and rents
have kept nicely ahead of the ever-growing
dividend requirements. Thus the whole of
the underwriting surplus has been avail-
able to swell investments, and, of course,
the returns therefrom. For all that _it be-
came obvious that the annual capitalisation
of £25,000 of reserves could not continue
indefinitely, and a halt was called for breath
in 1927.
Notwithstanding that the bottom fell out
of marine underwriting' after the war, and
that that class of business has been more
or less unsatisfactory ever since, the United s
underwriting experience as a whole was a
very satisfactory one for the five years to
the close of accounts in 1924. For that
period profits aggregated £383,293, of which
£212,084 came from underwriting, and in-
terest, etc., provided £171,209; of the total
amount £145,000 was distributed in divs.
But for the five years to Sept. 30 last, though
the business expanded steadily, the aggregate
profits (£358,880) were £24,413 less than for
the preceding quinquennium; underwriting
yielded only £127,000-odd of those profits,
interest, etc., accounting for the other
£231,000. Here are the co.’s underwriting
performances since the beginning of this cen-
tury :—-
Net Pre- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1900. . £70,779 £38,589 £25,296 54.5 p.c. 35.7 p.c.
1905.. 88,609 42,250 35,832 47.7 „ 40.4 „
1910.. 111,906 55,094 49,276 49.2 „ 44.0 „
1915.. 188,287 88,220 77,029 46.8 „ 39.4 „
1920.. 287,193 93,040 131,359 32.4 „ 45.7 „
1923.. 263,558 93,600 132,363 35.5 „ 50.2 „
1924.. 285,093 120,668 128,149 42.3 „ 44.9 „
1925.. 297,720 101,465 146,677 34.0 „ 49.2 „
1926.. 290,273 131,016 143,572 44.2 „ 48.4 „
1927.. 303,470 127,573 155,778 42.0 „ 51.3 „
1928.. 346,391 162,914 164,724 47.0 „ 47.6 „
1929.. 185,236 160,916
Premiums are not separated from other income
in the latest accounts. Gross receipts for
the 12 months to Sept. 30 (£716,263) were
£55,498 better than the previous year’s;
reinsurances (£303,248) were £37,523
heavier, so net premiums and interest, etc.
(£413,015), improved £17,975. Assuming
that average funds (capital and reserves
combined) earned at the same rate as in
the previous year (5.5 p.c.), then, in round
figures, investments turned in £49,000, and
net premiums £363,000. Thus the underwrit-
ing profit (£17,000) fell back to 4.8 p.c. of
the net premiums compared with 5.4, 7.9,
7.3 and 16.6 p.c. back to 1925. The experi-
ence is a general one, and is due mainly to
heavy fire losses in Australia and Maoriland.
The loss rate (nearly 51 p.c.) was the co.’s
heaviest since early in this century, and it is
doubtful to what extent, if any, relief need
be looked for in the matter of fire losses in
the near future. An encouraging feature of
last year’s figures is that the cost of handling
the bigger business was actually £3BOB less
than in the previous term, making the cut in
the expense rate 7 p.c. over the last two
years.
From the policy-holders’ point of view the
co.’s position is a very strong one. At Sept.
30 they could see net tangible assets equal
to 248 p.c. of the year’s net premiums, or
98 p.c. more than is usually regarded as
adequate. Funds were held in this form: —
1920. 1928. 1929.
Government securities. . £276,175 £487,432 £494,828
Cash book debts, etc.. . 206,778 274,372 272,091
Debentures . . . . 60,831 40,688 40,688
Mortgages .. .. 53,988 117,695 123,5ji0
Premises .. • • 104,281 103,691 118,759
Most of the year’s surplus earnings were
invested in Government securities. At the
close of accounts there was £119,501 coming


YOU ARE THE JUDGE
ZAP O N
ESTABLISHED 1884-
45 Years have elapsed since ZAPON LACQUERS were given to the world.
45 Years of experience and knowledge gained to develop a lacquer superior
in quality and endurance.
45 Years ago only a few manufacturers were using a lacquer finish.
TO-DAY —Thousands of industrial plants throughout the world consume millions
of gallons of lacquer annually.
45 Years ago the total value of The Zapon Company assets were but a few
thousand pounds.
TO-DAY—ZAPON COUNTS IN MILLIONS OF POUNDS.
Conservative—Sound Policies,\ Servants to the demands of Modern Industry,
assisting manufacturers in their efficiency problems has made The Zapon
Company the largest manufacturers of lacquer and leather cloths in the world.
On Furniture and Refrigerators . .
~ Telephones and Gramophones
~ Lead Pencils and Penholders . .
~ Buttons and Beads
~ Canisters and Metal Vases
~ Electric Fixtures and Radios . ,
~ Scales and Cash Registers
~ Trams, R.R. Coaches and Elevators
~ Watches, Clocks and Jewelry . .
~ Toys, Dolls and Autos . .
Zapon Lacquers
Zapon Lacquers
Zapon Lacquers
Zapon Lacquers
Zapon Lacquers
Zapon Lacquers
Zapon Lacquers
Zapon Lacquers
Zapon Lacquers
Zapon Lacquers
TO-DAY A ZAPON LACQUER FOR EVERY USE.
IN ADDITION TO THE ABOVE
Zapon Leather Cloth in hundreds of patterns for every ramification of the
upholstery trade.
IZARINE. —The new unique Suede Cloth in five (5) different weights,
Izarine has every appearance of Suede Leather, but superior for shoes, coats,
hats, furniture, pocket-books, bookbinding and other varied uses.
DURATEX.— The impervious auto top covering.
The Zapon Company of Stamford, Conn., U.S.A., under contract with Zapon
(Australasia), Ltd., for a term of 99 years, will now serve Australia, New
Zealand, Java, India, Malay States and Hong Kong, giving the same sincere
service, the same superior quality the Zapon Company has given over a period
of 45 years.
ZAPON AUSTRALASIA LTD.
TEMPORARY OFFICE:
TWYFORD HOUSE, 17 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
FACTORY:
YOUNG AND McEVOY STREETS, WATERLOO


Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter 8 Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slata Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers,
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
Who Will Manage Your Estate?
At all times when an individual is appointed as Executor or Trustee
the uncertainty of human life is present. Who is better qualified to
administer your Estate than the
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED.
It cannot die, travel or disappear; has had over 40 years’ experience
in the management of all classes of Estates, and offers as security the
whole of its capital and assets —over £1,000,000.
Our Explanatory Booklet will be
sent to you Post Free on Request.
DIRECTORS:
THOS. BUCKLAND
JAMES MOIR
F. N. YARWOOD
(Chairman)
0. E. FRIEND
Lt.-Col. T. F. RUTLEDGE
J. W. Barnes, Manager. E. V. T. Whittle, Asst. Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
The Crash in
I New York
Tens of thousands of Ameri-
cans have just been ruined
through not knowing what
was ahead.
Tens of thousands of Aus-
tralians are risking heavy loss
in exactly the same way.
The “Wild Cat” Monthly
doesn’t know everything. But
it puts before you a tremendous
quantity of data from which
you can draw your own con-
clusions.
In these uncertain days
every investor —even though
it be only in a life insurance
policy—owes it to himself and
his family to keep himself
informed.
Let the Monthly help you.
NOVEMBER NUMBER
NOW ON SALE
SINGLE COPy, 2/-; PER ANNUM,
22/6. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patentihg?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. —Advt.
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
L. J. Smith, Estate Agent and Hotel Broker, Ulver-
stone, Tasmania, sells country and town properties
and businesses of all kinds.— Advt.
❖ s|: :|c
Proposed mining parties to Papua should make
arrangements for native labor before proceeding to
Port Moresby. Time saved by wiring the number
of boys required. Mining boys cost £4/10/- each
for any time up to 18 months, delivered at Port
Moresby, and arrangements have to be made with
Bank at Port Moresby guaranteeing total wages.
Recruiting fees have to be guaranteed also. Recruit-
ing fees, 15/- per month for mining boys. Signing-
on fee, 6/- per boy, and equipment to be supplied
each native to the value of 6/- per boy. This
extra 12/- has to be paid by the employer. Suit-
able stores supplied. A Radio sent to Steamships
Trading Company, Limited, Port Moresby, Papua
(Contractors for mail services to the Commonwealth
and Papuan Governments), and all arrangements will
be made for your labor to be in readiness for you on
arrival. .Cable address: “Steamships,” Port Moresby.
The local agents, Nelson and Robertson, 12 Spring
Street, Sydney, will be pleased to give all particulars.
I —Advt.
The remarkable durability of Pioneer Wood Pipe
is a most important factor to consider when a
projected pipe line is under discussion. Not only
does Pioneer Wood Pipe ensure longest effective
life for the pipe line, but it reduces initial cost,
cost of installation and maintenance costs—to the
absolute minimum. Non-corrosive, light, easy to
handle and adaptable to any fluid conveyance
scheme. Write for full particulars and illustrated
data book to The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. (near Fig-
tree Bridge) ; and at Footscray, Victoria.— Advt
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament,
1888), hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
INSURE, WITH THE
Australian General
Insurance Company Ltd.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
] 1 7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
AGENTS WANTED WHERE NOT REPRESENTED.
to sundry creditors, including provision for
unadjusted losses. Premises, by the way, are
worth a lot more than their book value.
As far as bonus issues are concerned, indi-
cations are that they will be more intermit-
tent in the future. Whether the board is
likely to depart from its policy of
maintaining a steady nominal rate of divi-
dend can, of course, only be guessed at. The
share market, which paid £ll 2s. 6d. for the
scrip a year ago, now prices it at £lO. The
immediate return at that figure is 5 p.c. on
a 10 p.c. div. basis. The visible backing
amounts to £lO Is. 9d. per £l.O share paid
to £5 in net tangibles.
The Permanent Trustee Co. (Sydney).
Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. - Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 8,386 10 p.c. = 5,000 3386 50,293
Transferred to capital, £50,000 .. 293
1920.. 8,437 6 p.c. = 5,800 2637 2,930
1921.. 9,528 6 „ „ 6,600 2928 5,858
1922.. 14,104 9 „ „ 9,900 4204 10,062
1923.. 12,512 7i „ ~ 8,250 4262 14,324
1924.. 14,025 7| „ „ 8,250 0775 20,099
1925.. 14,558 8 „ „ 8,800 5758 25,857
1920.. 15,572 9 ~ „ 9,900 5072 31,529
1927.. 16,333 9 „ ~ 9,900 6433 37,962
1928.. 13,686 9 „ ~ 9,900 3786 41,748
1929.. 15,541 10 ~ „ 11,000 4541 46,289
The business is stepping along nicely. Last
year the c-o. gathered its biggest harvest of
trusts; the value of estates put on the books
exceeded the value of those wound up by
£1,490,964. That and the growth in the
co.’s own funds arc reflected in. a spring
of £6730 in the year’s gross earnings. The
extra cost of handling this bigger business
was £4875 ; thus the net result benefited by
£1855, reaching 14.1 p.c. on paid capital
compared with 12.4, 14.5, 14.1 and 13.2 p.c.
back to 1925. An extra 1 p.c. was sent
out with the final div., making 10 p.c. for
the year, and the £4541 that was left lifted
the lay-by to £46,289. That is to say, the
co.’s own funds at Sept. 30 (£156,289 —capi-
tal and reserves combined) had to earn only
7 p.c. clear to pay 10 p.c. on capital as it
stands, whereas the £15,541 showed 10 p.c.
So under ordinary circumstances there should
be no difficulty about maintaining last year’s
rate of distribution, notwithstanding that
4 p.c. of it is labelled bonus.
Indeed, it is reasonable to expect that the
position will go on improving as the busi-
ness grows. Over the last eight years both
income and the volume of trusts have
approximately doubled, but owing to the in-
creasing cost of handling the expanding busi-
ness, due largely to complications arising
from taxation and other legislation, the im-
provement in net earnings was only 42 p.c.
This next comparison clearly illustrates
what has happened
Exes. p.c.
Gross of Gross
Trust Funds. Earnings. Exes. Earnings.
1910. . £3,029,970 £11,743 £4,930 42.0 p.c.
1920.. 6,349,568 24,948 15,689 62.9 „
1924.. 8,955,624 39,584 24,921 63.0 „
1925.. 9,895,117 42,950 27,771 64.7 „
1926.. 10,850,424- 47,654 31,462 66.0 „
1927.. 11.712,983 >51,168 34,235 66.9 „
1928.. 12,873,589 52,374 38,088 72.5 „
1929.. 14,364,553 59,104 42,963 72.7 „
Of the increase of £4875 in last year’s outgo
£3282 was on account of management
charges (£32,922) and £1593 taxation, etc.
(£10,041). The rapid rise in property and
other values of recent years has helped
greatly to swell the figures, including com-
mission earnings. But if, as seems pro-
bable, -we are in for a period during which
values will have to be readjusted, returns
from the co.’s own funds may be affected
as well as its commission earnings.
Nevertheless the future for these cos. looks
as assured as any future can be. Apart from
the small chance the co. takes when it invests
its own funds, it really does not have to risk
ihuch. It may, of course, make mistakes, but
when the management is not sure about the
meaning of a will, there is always the Court
to go to for instructions.
As usual in a trustee co. assets are a solid
lot: —
1920. 1926. 1928. 1929.
Capital .. £109,945 £llO,OOO £llO,OOO £llO,OOO
Liabilities . . 933 4,114 8,674 7,400
Treasury deposit 20,000 20,000 20,000 20,000
Mortgages, etc. 26,804 46,144 73,768 84,316
Premises . . 66,271 62,741 61,521 60,921
Sundry debtors 858 393 342 67
Cash . . . . 3,996 23,585 11,992 6,686
Partly owing to the disappearance of tax-
free stocks from the market and the easier
tendency of interest rates on Government
securities of recent years, more money is now
•being put into mortgages. The item, which
includes an unspecified amount of war loan,
amounted to 53.9 p.c. of shareholders’ funds
at Sept. 30 as against 23.7 p.c. nine years
ago. Also the book value of premises is
jeing steadily written down.
The share market, over-eager in its expec-
tations, paid 245. 9d. for the scrip a year
ago. Following the publication of the sheet
the price sagged to 20s. 9d., but has since
strengthened to 225. 3d. At the latter figure
the return is a shade under 5 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. Each variation of 1 p.c. on that
rate would affect the return by .4 p.c. The
net tangible backing amounts to 15s. Bd. per
£5 share paid to 11s.
Commonwealth £10,000,000 Loan.
The Federal Government is on the local
market with £10,000,000 of 51 p.c. stock
or bonds. These are offered in parcels of £lO
and upwards at £9B, and are redeemable at
par in 1934. The return at the price is
£5 14s. 4d. per cent., including redemption,
and that is approximately the return now
obtainable on the 5| per cents, due Sept.
15, 1935. The new money is wanted for
public works and the redemption of existing
securities. The amount asked for ought to
be well within the resources of the market;
incidentally about £4,000,000 in half-yearly
interest on other Commonwealth stocks will
be distributed on Dec. 15, the day before
the loan closes. Should any large amount
of the issue be left on the hands of the under-
writers (the Associated Banks), they may
be obliged to look still harder at customers’
overdrafts and applications for advances,
which would tend to restrict business gener-
ally.
A feature of the last two months’ trading
on Australian ’Changes was a sharp general
relapse in price, with a consequent improve-
ment in return. But with the elections out
of the way, a better demand for wool at
slight advances, an improvement in the wheat :
harvest estimate, the possibility of an early
resumption of work on the Northern N. S.
Wales coalfields, and the drop from (U p.c.
to 6 p.c. in the Bank of England rate, the
downward trend of prices for all sound paper
seems to have been arrested. On Aug. 1
the average return on Commonwealth bonds
was £5 4s. Gd.; it reached £5 13s. 6d. last
week —the highest average for well over two
years.
Zapon (Australasia), Ltd.
This is a Sydney float to take over from
W. 11. Dennis the sole agency in Australia
and Maoriland, together with selling rights
in India, Hong Kong, Malay States and
Java, for zapon and izarine, two products
of the big Zapon Co., of America. Nominal
capital is £lOO,OOO in £1 shares, of which
50,000 are offered. The promoter takes
£7OOO in fully paids but no cash; these
shares are deferred as to dividend and capi-
tal until profits sufficient to pay a 10 p.c.
div. are being earned. He has also applied
for 5000 contribs., handed over to the co.
orders on which a profit of about £5OOO is
said to be assured, and is to be managing
director for five years. The term of the
agency is for 99 years, subject to the co.
placing with the parent orders averaging
£30,000 p.a. for the first five years, and
£50,000 p.a. thereafter.
Zapon is a lacquer used in painting motor-
cars, furniture, etc. It lias won a market
in America, and sales in Australia and
Maoriland for the last 12 months are said
to have exceeded £30,000. On a paid capi-
tal of £25,000 the prospectus figures a net
profit of £BOOO, or 32 p.c., in the co.’s first
year. That is apart from any profit on the
sale of izarine, a cloth said to have the
appearance and qualities of suede leather,
and used for upholstering, etc. Later other
lines manufactured by the Zapon Co. are to
be taken over. Preliminary exes, are put at
not more than £6OOO.
The proposition is worth attention. Assum-
ing that tlie_ prices arranged for with the
parent are right and the contract definite,
the rest will depend mainly upon the manage-
ment. On the board are L. iVI. Triggs, Rex
Cullen-Ward, Alfred Chown, C. A. Callaghan
and W. H'. Dennis; several of these men—
Messrs. Triggs and Chown, for example—
have had great experience in both manufac-
turing and marketing in Sydney.
Lead producers are planning to restrict
the number of interests selling the metal.
Henceforth the Mexican production is to be
sold by the same interests that market the
Australian, Burmese and Spanish outputs.
In 1928 world output of lead was 1,800,000
tons. Of this, Mexico produced 250,000 tons,
Australia 175,000, Spain 104,000 and Burma
90,000, a total of 619,000 tons, or over 30
p.c. of the world’s output. The aim is better
control of the market, and therefore of the
price.
* * * *
Burma Corporation, in which some Aus-
tralian money is invested, has whooped about
a rich strike at depth in its great silver-lead
mines beyond Mandalay.
This property, with the early days of
which 11. C. Hoover and the late F. A.
Govett were closely associated, is reckoned
to be too big a proposition for ordinary rich
finds to be worth making any fuss about.
But the latest development holds out the
prospect of a longer life than even the long
life already counted upon.
* * * *
Kaindi Gold, a New Guinea co. whose
shares had a lively flutter in Melbourne
some months ago, is reported to be a reefing
proposition. A good deal of work is said
to have been done on the line of the reef, but
nothing definite has yet reached The Bul-
letin. The 445-acre block is one of those
over which Ellyou Corporation took an
option to Dec. 31 ; the holders have paid
an additional £4OOO in cash for an exten-
sion, and that looks cheerful. If the option
is exercised Kaindi will receive 60,000 £1
paids in New Guinea Goldfields, which will
be the working co. The Day Dawn lease,
whose reel: is said to traverse the Kaindi
Nos. 1 and 4 leases, has not been accepted
by the option holders, although mining-
warden McLean thought very well of it some
time ago.
The reefing part of the proposition has
caused a lot of serious thought in certain
quarters. There is still plenty of alluvial
on the field, but gold-bearing reefs, and good
ones at that, will be necessary if satisfac-
tory returns are to be won on the huge
capital proposed.
* * * *
Various Kalgoorlie mines have long been
considering the erection of a central power-
station to supply current to the group, but
nothing has been done so far. At Collie
better progress has been made, and an elec-
tric power scheme will presently furnish
light and power to the town, its industrial
concerns and collieries. The scheme is to
cost £150,000, and will be working next year.
The output trom these collieries is now
600,000 tons annually.
jWiluna and Lake View and Star cos. are
spending hundreds of thousands on new
plant and in remodelling their old equip-
ment, and a number of smaller Westralian
cos. are busy in the same direction. Golden
Butterfly is erecting a plant on its Norse-
man property, and the Princess Royal is
installing another at Westonia. In both
cases treatment facilities are available near
by, and it might have been wise to have
crushed a few hundred tons of ore before
embarking on plant construction.
After many ups and downs Adelaide-
controlled Mutooroo Copper Corporation is
again looking for wealth. It badly needs
a show of sufficient promise to cause a
market flutter, but has nothing of the kind
in sight at the moment. The co. has tested
and thrown up too many propositions in
Westralia and elsewhere for the “Wild Cat”
to remember.
* * * *
Westralia’s gold output still falls, though
every assistance to prospectors and mine-
owners is being given by the State Govern-
ment. Larger returns from the Lake View
and Star group, Kalgoorlie, are expected to
check the decline before long, and next year
Wiluna should lend a hand.
s|i $
First Hit. Menzies (W.A.), has milled 53
tons for 2180 z., which shows the two
prospector-owners an excellent profit. W\A.
still has a few good producers in a small
way. The owners of First Hit, Golden Age
(Menzies), Great Hope (Mt. Monger) and
Radio (Southern Cross) are always con-
sidered well worth calling upon by travel-
ling salesmen.
i'fi ❖ *
Treating ore of 18s. grade, Sons of Gwalia
(W.A.) just manages to keep afloat. With
a monthly output of 13,500 tons the co.
pays exes.; it is a distinctly good perfor-
mance under present conditions.
* * *
Last month Ratrut Basin’s two dredges
got 67 tons of t. 0., valued at £7500. The
turnover, 80,000 yards, was low, and the
dredges lost in all 16 days for repairs and
replacements; costs were probably high,
though they are not stated. The average,
1.871 b. per yard, is good. Takuapa Valley’s
two. dredges recovered 63 tons of t. 0., valued
at £7lOO, from 310,000 yards. Here again
costs are not stated. Bundi, also running
two plants, dug 155,000 yards, which yielded
52 tons of ore valued at £5980. The
dredges lost 350 hours in repairs and
replacements. Costs are not given.
Shareholders in the big Alluvial Tin
amalgamation, Kuala Kampar Tin Fields,
got a shock the other day when it was an-
nounced that No. 3 dredge had capsized.
It was insured against material loss for
£60,000, and consequential loss for £45,000,
with a nine months’ indemnity. Two large
modern dredges, those formerly doing duty
for Malim Nawar South and Tanjong Tua-
long, are working on the property, so the
check to production will be only partial.
Last month the trio turned over 575,000
yards for 110 tons of oxide.
* * * *
The career of Huey Yot, one of Malay
Siamese’s pups, promises to be a chequered
one. The proposed sale of the show to an
Eastern co., Mines Selection Trust, last April
roused Australian shareholders to indigna-
tion. Later it was announced that Mines
Selection had “nominated” Universal Engin-
eering and Development as the purchaser, the
latter to have an option of refusal for three
months. The price was to be £166,000 in
cash, the buyer also - taking over liabilities
amounting to £23,000. The Universal co.,
has now decided not to exercise the option,
and Huey Yot is again in the air, with an
indebtedness of some £20.000 and not a shot
in the locker. F. F. Munro, one of the
directors, recently told Australian share-
holders that an increase of capital to
£250,000 would enable a new dredge to be
bought and profits to be won. As an alter-
native, a co. with a capital of £350,000 had
onered to buy the mine, allotting Huey Yot
£llO,OOO, tin* balance to be applied to buying
two extra dredges. This would mean the
loss to sliarenoiuers of a little less than one-
sixtli of their capital, to say nothing of the
interest on the prefs. A lot of Australian
holders _ are very dissatisfied with the way
the business has been handled, and recently
resolved that the annual meeting at Penang
be asked to appoint J. M. Marshall, Huey
Yot’s engineer, a director in place of A. j.
King, and to recognise an advisory com-
mittee of Australian shareholders.


Spend your finest
holiday here this
Summer
mmM
mm
m
mm
mmm
Mk
m
mis
PUT
YOURSELF
HERE
“A Thousand
Things to See and
Do.”
THERMAL MARVELS
Rotorua
LAKES AND FIORDS
• Taupo
Manapouri
Waikaremoana
Milford Sound
Dusky Sound
MOUNTAIN GRANDEUR
Mount Cook
Mount Egmont
Tasman Glacier
Franz Joseph Glacier
Tongariro Park
TOURING, CAMPING
GOLF, SWIMMING,
SAILING, FISHING,
SHOOTING
[The majestic Franz Joseph,
the wor d’s most beau iful
| glacier, which reaches with-
in 700 ft, of sea level.
Strange Sights—
Rare Beauties
Each day brings a
complete change
Your finest holiday is still ahead of you unless
you have already been to this Summerland
supreme.
New Zealand has everything to make your visit
unforgettable. Its Summer climate is incom-
parable. One beautiful day follows another—
each tempting you to spend every hour out-
doors. Nights are cool for sound sleep.
Strange sights, rare beauties. Here the magic
of the most amazing thermal region in the
world —Rotorua. Two days journey on, the
snow-clad peaks of the famous Southern Alps.
Come and see these wonders, all the beauties
and rare sights that no other trip can ever
duplicate.
Here’s the change you need . . . Plan now for
your finest Summer.
Full details and information may be obtained from the following:
MELBOURNE:—Mr. H. J. Manson, Dominion Chambers, 59 William St.
SYDNEYMr. W. R. Blow, London Bank Chambers. 20 Martin Place.
BRISBANE :--Mr. T. E. Dewar, King House, Queen Street.
ADELAIDE:—Mr. Victor H. Ryan, Director of S. Australia Tourist Bureau
PERTH:—Mr. A. S. McClintock, Queen’s Buildings, 285 Murray Street
And the offices of Messrs. Thos. Cook & Son & The Union Steamship Co.
Here is Your Opportunity
to obtain
Sound Brewery Stock
—at par!
This is an abridged Prospectus only, and the requirements of Section 88 of the Companies Act
1915 have not been complied with.
Sydney Brewery, Ltd.
( Registered under the Victorian Companies Act 1915.)
Nominal Capital - - £200,000
150,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each, and
40,000 Eight Per Cent. Cumulative Participat-
ing Preference Shares of £1 each are offered
to the Public.
DIRECTORS.
Sydney:
Walter Frederick Gale, Company Director* 13 Bligh Street.
John Alexander Stammers Jones, Retired Brewer, Eltham Avenue, Darling Point.
Charles Bohringer, Architect, 77 King Street.
Charles Edward Willing, Wine and Spirit Merchant, 12 Spring Street.
One other to be appointed.
Melbourne:
John Frank Cox, Company Director, Menzies’ Hotel, William Street.
Roy James Dunn, Civil. Engineer, 97 Queen Street.
Sydney Solicitors:
Messrs. Priddle, Gosling and Sillar, Wingello House, Angel Place.
Melbourne Solicitors:
Messrs. Coy and England, Collins Street.
Melbourne Auditors:
Messrs. Davey, Balding and Co., Chartered Accountants (Aust.), 31 Queen Street.
Registered Office:
31 Queen Street, Melbourne.
This Company has acquired the lease and rights
of purchase of Lithgow Brewery, which carries
the trade of ten hotels as “tied” houses, and
the business of Liquors Limited of Sydney,
which has the Australian Agency for several
lines of wines and spirits, etc. Its policy of
“home delivery” of same, together with the
beer from the Brewery, throughout Sydney and
towns of New South Wales —a practice which
has already proved itself very successful in
Victoria —will be continued by the Sydney
Brewery, Ltd.
ytuyu
rrm
7sreuferu Share Trice
d U
orjdex
fi-LOU^
til
i±i
LH I H LM
<*■
1928 1929
INDEX OF COMMONWEALTH BONDS.
BREWERY SHARE PRICE INDEX.
The two price indices reproduced here provide
an interesting comparison of the marked upward
trend of Brewery stocks.
Fill in This Coupon NOW for. Prospectus.
SYDNEY BREWERY, LTD.,
■ 12 Spring Street, Sydney.
Kindly forward me, without obligation, a copy of your Prospectus.
NAME
ADDRESS
B.


m
mm
m
m
m
m
•'' 1
§i
'
fi
Big" Double Purchase
A XMAS
SPECIAL
(W
WITH CHRISTMAS ONLY 5 WEEKS
OFF, this fortunate purchase brings to
you a splendid opportunity to secure
your Christmas Suit at a big saving.
Latest weaves, too ! Pure Wool Worsteds and
Serges of superb quality in ideal weight for the
coming days.
Do not miss this !
£B'B'- Value
w
ŵ
Write for Free Patterns
—and we will send you a com-
plete selection by return mail.
“Desk '‘‘Hr
Murdoch's, Ltd.,
Park & George Streets, Sydney.
Dear Sirs, — Without cost or obligation, kindly
forward me patterns of the Special Tailoring feature
at £5/16/6.
Name
Address
13/ U/’29.
and a genuine
21/' Hat
Mil
for
HP HE second special purchase, and with-
out doubt as big a value as the first !
Men’s Pure Fur Felt Hats of specially
selected quality. “Snap Brim,” “Prince,”
or “Lounge” shapes, in smart Light Grey,
Silver Grey, Slate, Steel, Beaver, Fawn,
and new Apricot. Finest-quality trimmings.
Usually, 21/-
SPECIAL OFFER.
14'n
ytuyu
Write for New Xmas Gift Folder—Free.
POSTAGE PAID TO YOUR DOOR.
When writing kindly mention size and shade required. Address all letters to Desk
Ohe Worlds Largest Mens and Bogs'
me
Store


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic P-isk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etr
dm
m
JHE GREYS
SIZEnTWO
SILK CUT VIRGINIA
DR AP
LONDON
ASK FOR
EYS
1® for ®dl. CIGARETTES 3Kffi for It Vfr
10 01, PURE
VIRGINIA
Without any exaggeration “Greys” are as fine a
cigarette as you can buy—they are made from 10U
per cent, pure and properly matured Virginia
tobacco that gives you a cool sweet-flavored smoke.
There are no fancy frills to “Greys,’ they arc just
good cigarettes that protect your palate and leave
no after taste. They will soothe and satisfy.
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights”
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20.
When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen-
tial to the enjoyment of your visit.
Hotel service that is homelike,
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom-
modation early.
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
f Bed and
Breakfast
Tariff
if desired
nuhcm
HOTEL
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel,” Sydney.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
THE IGNORANCE OF THOMAS JOHN.
WILLIAM HENRY: “Did [?] fetch down they candles I told ’ee to, Thomas John?”
THOMAS JOHN: “Thee never told me fetch down no candles, William Henry!”
WILLIAM HENRY: “Well, if ’ee wasn’t so durn ignoramish, theed ha’ knawed I meant to
tell ’ee.”
“Foretop”: The copra shed caught fire, and
a boy named Boppi, who was a native of
the cannibal district of Singarango (Solo-
mon Islands), gave the alarm so promptly
that the blaze was extinguished before any
serious damage was done. The overseer sent
Boppi down to the store to receive his re-
ward—a tin of “bullumacow.” Boppi was
a long time making his choice from the shelf
on which were tins of corned beef of vari-
ous brands. He examined the labels criti-
cally. First there was a label-which depicted
a sleek ox grazing in a field of vivid green.
“That good fellow kaikai,” recommended
the store boy. Boppi shook his head and in-
spected a label with an emu as trade-mark. He
passed this over to inspect the next tin, which
was called “Admiral Brand,” and had a pic-
ture of a well-nourished naval officer in full
uniform. A seraphic smile crept over Boppi’s
face, “Me like um that feller,” he said,
licking his lips in anticipation.
=!: $ *
“Wang”: There ate to-day in a Victorian
country district two men suffering from
mutilations brought about in a peculiar way.
Their misfortune befell in the days when the
cow cockies sent their milk to a creamery
to be separated. One of the suppliers had
a large family of daughters, and one of
them, a buxom, red-headed lass of about 20,
used to deliver the milk to the creamery.
The. creamery manager,' a young bachelor,
was sweet on the girl, and did his love-making
inside the building, doors closed against in-
quisitive boys. One morning a couple of lads
aged about 13 were perched on a form just
outside a window, peering intently inside and
making ribald remarks. Suddenly, one of them
got it hard and heavy on his projecting stern.
Ilis head shot through the window, one of his
ears being sheered clean off by the jagged
glass. Simultaneously there came a wail o!
anguish from behind him, and the young
creamery manager, who had sneaked out un-
noticed, staggered back holding his face. The
iron-shod heel of one of the youngsters had
caught him on the nose, breaking it. I was one
of the kids, but not the one who got a
Dolt with a barrel stave on his rump.
“Rhodes”: I’m not sure whether my red
kelpie showed extraordinary cleverness or
just had good luck, but this is what hap-
pened to him. I entered him for the sheep-
dog-trials at the, Mungindi show, and when
his turn came he got to work like a veteran,
and despite the fact of having the three
most stubborn sheep of the day he put them
through the hurdles without a break. With
the-hurdles safely negotiated he had only to
work the sheep into the pen, but here the
sheep cut up rough. They would go right
up to the gate of the pen and then break
in three different directions. Time and time
again Red brought them back to the pen and
manoeuvred them into position in front of
the gate, but here tjiey would invariably
turn to face him, anS at the slightest move-
ment on his part would break. The allotted
time was running short, and Red was evi-
dently tiring of his futile ‘ endeavors, but 1
managed to persuade him to bring the sheep
SHE DIDN’T SEE A CATCH IN IT.
CITY GIRL: “What do you have the rope on the front of your saddle for?”
COUNTRY LAD : “That’s to catch horses and cows with.”
CITY GIRL: “My, how cute! But what bait do you use?”
up to the gate once more. When they got
there they turned to face him as usual and
gave every indication of breaking. Red had
had enough. He turned his back to them,
and to show his contempt, proceeded to
scratch dirt in their faces. And lo! they
immediately backed into the pen!
it. * * ■ *
“Walkup”: “Yes,” said the loco.-driver,
discussing the infidelity of women. “I goes
down to the railway, gets on to the train
and blows the whistle hard. Then I runs
the train on to a sidin’ an’ dashes ’ome an’
grabs a palin’ off the fence —and I never
got a bloke yet!”
* * * *
“Destiny”: A fish with bright-blue blood
was hooked by Charles Carlson, of Gladstone
(Q.), while deep-sea fishing around the
islands of. the Capricornia Group. It was 4ft.
Din. long and weighed 1071 b. The head and
eyes resemble those of a pig with a turned-
up nose and two small tusks at top and
bottom of the jaws. The head is dark
blue, and the flesh is of greenish tint, prob-
ably caused by the unusual color of its
blood. It was sent to the Brisbane Museum,
and so far hasn’t been identified.
* * * *
“E.S.S.”: The catfish is one of the very
few that make a home, the nest being a ring
of small stones or pebbles, where the spawn
is deposited in season. In places where stones
are scarce, the mud-raker shoves or rolls
pebbles along to the building site with its
mouth. The best is circular or oval in shape,
made near shore, and preferably on a sandy
bottom. There the female is often seen on
guard or resting. She attacks other mem-
bers of the tribe that approach the hatchery,
and sometimes a fierce fight ensues.
*i : "* *l* *•*
“Maunga”: Old Te Nganamu,. the Maori
chief, neatly mastered a language difficulty
one fine day about five and forty years ago.
He set out to propose marriage to the young
daughter of a newly-arrived German settler.
With great difficulty the ancient native was
made to understand that his age rendered
him ineligible. He had an argument to
counteract that. He drew with his stick in
the dust a very large square, with a tiny
oblong in one corner. The big area, he made
it known, represented his 10,000-acre estate,
and the little oblong all that he would want
of it before so very long. In three weeks the
marriage took place. In three months the
oblong was occupied.
“Atherton”: The a bo. maikies his own
twine, hair being the most prized raw material
—his own wool,, or the missus’s, or a ’pos-
sum’s. The wool is saved up until wanted,
then washed, dried, and rubbed well between
the hands. Then it is teased out. into a
sort of skein and wound round a stick. Then
Binghi gets his crochet-needle, a slender twig
about seven inches long with a barb on the
end, and, guiding the skein along the needle,
works the point backwards and forwards be-
tween the moistened fore-finger and thumb of
the .left hand, which twists the hair into a
string, which is wound up into a number of
balls. Finally he gets the ends of two lengths,
fastens them to the end of the needle, runs
them along his thigh, and with flattened
hand twists them into one long strong string.
This is used for ornamental headband and
waistbelts, .armlets or sacred ornaments. For
dillybags fibre twine is usually used, but I
have known mothers carry their piccaninnies
in bags made of human hair. Goodness
only knows how much labor and love went
into the making of such bags.
* * * *
“Bert the Carpenter”; It’s strange that
the good qualities of Norfolk Island pine-
timber haven’t received more recognition
than they have done. A few years ago 11.
Morell and Co., of Adelaide, cut a butt log
from a Norfolk pine into flitches, meaning
to use it for case-making. After seasoning,
however, the boss decided it was too good for
cases, so it was deep-cut into 12 x 1 boards,
and, put through the planer. Then I used it
for shelves in a shop I was fitting up, and
found it nailed and worked as sweetly us
sugar pine, but was. as strong as oregon.
The only other time I’ve heard of it being
used was when a Yankee ship’s carpenter
used it to replace a boom and gaff on a
Pacific trading schooner. The N.I. pine, by
the way, is becoming very popular for tree-
planting in parts of the U.S.A., not only for
its graceful shape, but because it can’t be
blown down or pushed out of shape by the
wind.
ijc -i"
“Faust”: There is one animal whose dead
smell cannot be mistaken, even by the novice,
and that is the human animal. I have always
connected it with the strong sweet scent of
the narcissus, but was prepared to believe
this a peculiarity of mine or else due to
early association of ideas or smells until
recently I met a chap who objected to nar-
cissus blooms in the room. “Sorry. I like
the flowers, but can't bear the smell —too
much like corpse,” he said.
* -t- * *
“Ivotone” : One of the foremost exponents
of the dying art of Maori carving, Motu
Heta, seemingly comes under the influence
of some supernatural force when at work.
Until he has completed everything to his
satisfaction, and has solemnly burned all
the chips, lie must be treated very care-
fully % If anyone were to interfere with the
building he is ornamenting, or were to take
away any of the chips, he would become
violently ill, and would remain unwell until
the job was finished. Motu has done work
in many parts of M.L., and on various occa-
sions has been made the victim of the atua’s
wrath through the ignorance of strangers,
who handled and disturbed parts of the
unfinished work.
(Continued on page 25.)
THE PALLID CUCKOO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hear the pallid cuckoo call, all the sunlit
morning, , .
Calling over Yarra s glens, wandering at
will, .
Till the cloudy summer gold into grey is
turning ,
Sadly down the slopes of twilight,
Hear him still.
Calling down the grassy bends where the
blossoms riot
lii silver tones and semi-tones, a melan-
choly scale; . .
Crying from the skyey wastes, spirit of
unquiet,
Telling, like to chiming bells,
An oft-told tale.
The blackbird pipes of Arcady, the thrush
of English Maytimes,
And, ah! the flutes enchanted in the mag-
pie’s tone!
But the cuckoo, keening always through the
summer dawn and day times.
Grieves for something strange and lovely
That is gone.
In the sunset, in the silence of a lost en-
chanted even,
Listening to the cuckoo’s call, faint and
far away,
Sensing something not terrene, set ’twixt
earth and Heaven.
So it seemed in other years
And so to-day.
All the very summer’s day, through the vague
blue morning,
Crying over Yarra’s glens, wandering at
will, '
Till the cloudy bannered gold into grey is
turning
Sadly down the slopes of twilight
Hear him .still.
.VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN DALZIEL.


r
m
l
r~' sri
the reliability Car of the year!
“Reliability” is dominantly associated with all that
Essex the Challenger stands for. -
Its notable speed and performance ability are made
possible by that quality. The experience of more
than 200,000 owners, with the lowest record of service
cost and requirements, has established it outstand-
ingly as “the Reliability Car of the Year.”
Essex records are country-wide. No matter where
you live, you will probably find the outstanding re-
liability event of your locality is held by Essex the
Challenger. Exclusive Super-Six design and the
sturdy, fine car way it is built are responsible for this
position.
Silent roller valve tappets, vapour-cooled valves,
chain drive for generator, fuel and air filters for car-’
burettor, and oil strainer are among the many items of
costly car construction that contribute to the smooth,
quiet and long-lasting operation of Essex the Chal-
lenger.
In Fast Getaway-Mno car is excepted. In Speed—
anything the road offers up to 70 miles an hour. In
Endurance —60 miles an hour, for hour after hour, is
well within its range.
lillliHiHF
See these fine motor cars in our showroom. You are invited
to drive them for your own inspection.
THE STANDARD TOURER has an up-to-
date five-seater Australian body with
colored moulding and beading. Special
form-fitting, leather-trimmed seats. Nickel-
posted single screen. Black hood. £290
TV/O-THREE-PASSENGER STANDARD
AUSTRALIAN ROADSTER, equivalent
equipment to Standard Tourer. £290
TWO-THREE-PASSENGER STANDARD
AUSTRALIAN ROADSTER, as above, but
including rumble-seat equipment. £299
TWO-THREE-PASSENGER DE LUXE
AUSTRALIAN ROADSTER, with rumble
seat. A superior job throughout. Has
grey sports hood with lift-out back cur-
tain, hood envelope, nickel-plated hood
rests, nickel-plated bars on back of body,
nickel-plated steps to rumble seat. Front
and rear bumpers. Step mats and nickel-
plated frames to number boards . . £3lO
TWO-THREE-PASSENGER IMPORTED
ROADSTER, with rumble seat .... £360
FIVE-PASSENGER IMPROVED AUS-
TRALIAN FOUR-DOOR SEDAN, leather
upholstery £7/10/- extra £365
THREE-PASSENGER IMPORTED
COUPE, with rumble seat £385
THREE-PASSENGER IMPORTED
CONVERTIBLE COUPE, with rumble
seat £395
FIVE-PASSENGER IMPORTED TOWN
SEDAN, with front and rear bumpers. £420
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
NEAL'S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
AUTOS LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
MOTORS LIMITED.,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston*
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


=r %
solS
-Top
SO.VIK
DRY GIN
mm J
I ini r
m
EQ^heßesfi
'Basis is
BOLf
SILVER TCP
DRY <ilN
|^PATOrt]
Accommodation
160.
Central,
Comfortable,
Convenient,
oMts. G.P.O
Excellent
Cuisirir
Billiards,
Dancing.
ORIENTAL HOTEL
(No License)
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
TARIFF:
Weekly,
£3/3/- to
£4/4/-
Daily,
11/6 to 12/6.
Room & B’fast,
8/6 to 9/6
FL2034
F 3575
ẁe
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
BRANt
brand
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association
EH:
Contractors with the Hoard, of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
“Barangkali”: The laughing-lizard men-
tioned by “Goanna” (B. 23/10/’29) is the
gecko. It can run across the ceiling as
easily as across the floor. When springing
at its prey it often leaps three to six inches
across the ceiling. How it defies the law of
gravity is a mystery, but its adherence to
the ceiling is easily explained. The feet
terminate in plastic hollow discs which act
as vacuum cups. Malays consider it good
luck to have a double-tailed gecko around the
house, and when Nature doesn’t provide
Ahmat goes about the job of making one.
Catching one of the lizards, he slices off
about an inch of the tail and splits the
remaining stump for about half an inch.
Very soon the gecko sprouts two new tails
and Ahmat’s dream is realised.
jjc sk * *
“Hamer”: The cabled yarn about three
lion cubs in the Warsaw Zoo which were
saved during a period of delayed lactation in
the mother by a doctor’s wife and a keeper’s
missus acting as foster-mothers is chiefly
remarkable as an exhibition of ineptitude on
the part of the zoo authorities. Sydney Zoo,
when it has trouble with lionesses and
the like which show a tendency to destroy
their offspring, switches the cubs to bitches,
which have proved good wet nurses. A case
of a woman acting as foster-mother to
NOT A BIT LIKE HER.
THE MANAGER'S MISSUS: “And is your new baby like her mother, Tarboy?"
TARBOY: “No fear, Missus! New baby can’t talk a plurry word.”
animals, however, cropped up in a Sydney
divorce case, in which a petitioning husband
gave evidence, which was corroborated, that
while his wife reared her own child on the
bottle, he had caught her suckling the pro-
geny of a pet poodle.
“Cuchulain”: A jumbuck will chum up
with cattle, if accident turns him into their
company, without the slightest hesitation. I
have come across a number of these curious
friendships of sheep with cattle. Not only
is Woolly happy and contented with his big
friends, but he usually flourishes extraordin-
arily, and should any kind of danger threaten
runs straight to the cattle for protection. A
wether that escaped from a mob at Gooda
(Q.) during the ’BB drought lived with the
cattle on the place for months. In the
heart of the dingo country it never had
cause to fear. A mob of travelling bullocks
from Dalby to Goondiwindi, a thousand head,
had another such mascot, who always
managed to keep well in advance file.
* * * *
“Caractacus” : Like the coming of a new
movie or talkie to the townsman is the
arrival in the Outback of the catalogue of
the city universal-providery. The volume is
almost the size of a city tele-
phone directory, and to the way-
backer full of interest. Its con-
tents are analysed carefully, and
what look like bargains are
listed for ordering before the
supply is exhausted. A pre-
cious memory among “bargains”
is when a great Sydney house
included among its lures men’s
felt hats of Savile-row reputa-
tion at a shilling each! Ding-
bat Creek, where I was then
working, plunged on them ; few
men failed to lay in a stock.
Thus it was that for years Ding-
baters were recognisable by
their pea-dodger hard-hitters,
browns and greys as well as
blacks, with the low tops and
tiny brims made familiar by
cartoons of the ’sixties. The
quality was there, but the styles
were those of Dickens’s day—the firm had
evidently been quitting some of its held-over
original stock.
* * =:= =:=
“C.M.”: “Country Ped” slips badly when
he brings as proof of trees carrying their
marks upwards the felloe bolted to a tree in
front of a blacksmith’s shop. This was a
device used as a tyre-bender before the
machine-bender arrived. As the iron bar
used for the tyre is from 17ft. to 18ft. in
length, the felloe was bolted to the post at
least 7ft. from the ground, to enable the bar
of iron to be worked round the felloe. “Coun-
try Ped’s” felloe that was fixed 3ft. from
the ground was thus as big a curiosity as the
tree whose bark moved upwards.
“Oleander”: The only blow-gun men yet
discovered in the Mandated Territory live
in one or two- parts of New Britain. They
don’t poison their darts nor do they hunt
men with them, only birds. They use a
blow-gun about 15 feet long, which is made
of fluted reeds, usually three or four. The
darts are beautifully pointed splinters or
hardwood, about two or three feet long, with
a fluffy end made from the downy feathers
HENCE THESE TEARS.
LAWYER ( sympathetically ): “Never mind, don’t worry. You will have your husband
with you again in a month.”
GRASS WIDOW ( sobbing ): “Yes—and I thought he’d get six."
of parrots. They rest their long guns against a
bough and bring down birds from the highest
trees. The deformed-headed men of Moewe
Haven can puff these darts over 100 feet
into the air. In some other parts of New
Britain, especially the Bainings, a short
blow-gun is used for shooting lizards and other
delectable creatures with a dart made from
the rib of a leaf.
“Misantlirop” : The Man-
dated Territory must be the
world’s happiest hunting-
ground for the anthropolo-
gist. Every month sees a
new worker in the field. Dr.
Fortune, who, as Dr. Mar-
garet Mead wrote learnedly
of Samoa and the Samoans,
has been studying the
Admiralty Islanders with
her husband. Ho r tense
Powdermaker is learning the
ways of the New Irelanders,
and Beatrice Blackwood is
cataloguing the complexes
of the black brothers of the
Mandated Solomons. _ There
are some he-scientists at
work as well. Gregory
Bateson, with a dictaphone,
has been in the Bainings,
New Britain, learning the
talk-talk of the natives, and
is now' living with the
Kanakas in a native village
up the Sepik River, on the
New Guinea mainland. Pitt-
Rivers has just published a
book about the natives of
the North-Western Islands,
where recently he spent some
time studying the depopula-
tion problem. An American
party, which contained every-
thing from an ichthyologist
to a cinema operator, went
up the Sepik also a few'
months ago. Incidentally,
the Government maintains
its own ethnological expert,
Pearson Chinnery, who
spends odd months in out-
of-the-way villages dealing
with the more practical side
of the science; and some of
the missionaries, such as
Father Kirschbaum, of
Marienberg, are world-famous authorities on
primitive races.
:j: X : i : *
“F.H.A.” : “Murkah’s” story (B. 23/10/’29)
is the most amazing one yet given to
the world regarding lost Leichhardt, but
it doesn’t tally with the facts. Leichhardt,
on his last trip, intended to cross Aus-
tralia from east to west. He was last
heard from at Coogoon. just west from
Roma, in April, 1848. Comet, where the
marked tree which “Murkah” reckons locates
the last Leichhardt camp is to be seen, is
due north from Roma. Leichhardt traversed
that country in 1844 and probably made
the camp then. A. C. Gregory in IS5<3
found a tree marked L sideways (Leichhardt s
mark) on the Barcoo, near Alice Downs
Other trees mai'ked L were also found on the
Alice River. As Landsborough did not set out
on his expedition in search ot Burke ana
Wills until 1861, it is obvious he did not
mark these trees. On the Elsey Gregory
found traces of a camp which he estimated
were from six to seven years old. Ihe nagt
pole of the liut had been laid in a notch cut m
a standing tiee. This was a marked charac-
teristic of Leichhardt’s camps. This camp
was 100 miles south of his route m 1884,
when he crossed to Port Essington. On the
Dugal River in 1864 Donald Mclntyre found
two very old saddle-marked horses wlnca
were thought to have belonged to Leichhardt.
In 1862 McDouall Stuart saw a. half-caste
boy on the heads of the Elsey, but made no
attempt to ascertain his parentage. Had
Leichhardt’s party been massacred on the
Comet, as “Murkali” states, it is fairly certain,
seeing that there was a big rush of mineis to
the Peak Downs in 1861 or 1862, that: some-
thing would have leaked out then about the
massacre. Who were the members of the
1858 expedition which, according to Murkah,
got hold of a story about a massacre on the
Comet ? And when, and with what evidence,
did Carl Schmallfust, Leichhardt’s nephew,
prove his uncle’s death before Judge Milton..
It would take a lot more details to satisfy
me that either the 1858 explorers or the
Schmallfust person solved the mystery.
* * * *
“Pudden” : What makes a waterhole in the
bed of a river? About 20 years back the
then manager of Warenda (W.Q.) conceived
the notion of making some good holes in
the bed of the Hamilton. He erected poles
in the centre of the channel. Attached to
the poles, in a sort of maypole arrange-
ment, were a number of lengths of timber.
These were to act as flails and to stir the
sand when the river ran. After three floods
the bed of the channel had silted to the
level of the tops of the poles ! Another fel-
low, on the Barkly Tableland, put: a stub
fence across a small channel with the idea
of scouring below it. The floods came, and
silt pded above the stubs and settled below
them till only the tops of the stubs were
visible. The same fellow put another set
of stubs below the new bank to form a
coffer-dam. The next flood curled back under
the lower line of stubs, excavated them, and
filled the coffer-dam level with silt. Ihe
flood after that took the whole lot on a
tourney to Lake Eyre, and left the channel
as it was in the first place. -Nine times
out of ten a fallen tree will collect silt and
form a bank across a waterhole. llie tenth
time it will scour and form a deeper hole.
if =!= * *
“Frigid”: Why are the trunks of trees
always flattened on the north and south
aspects and expanded east and west. Is it
the pull of the sun and moon?
BINGHI UP-TO-DATE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Poor old Crooked-Toe lives in Gular
“Up alongta Castlereagh, not very far,
In a corrugated house, ‘‘same as other men,
Two rooms and kitchen and “a bunk for a
frien’,” ,
With his little wife (“gin” you must not
say), „ . . .
Kiddies too (not “piccaninnies ), well
dressed and gay.
“All goin’ school now, learnin march an
sing,
Draw onta blackboard, add up ev ryt mg!
Crooked-Toe at G’largambone, “trappin’ for
to. skin
Motors home on Saturday, “steer’m Lizzie
in” ;
Has a bet on yarraman, smokes a cigarette,
Can’t have a “bally beer ’cause he won’t
be let” ; , .
Hails the hawking Chinaman, calls him
“yaller cow,”
“ ’Stralia for ta white man, China for ta
Chow!”
Gibsit to ta hospital, gibsit mate a start.
Old black Crooked-Toe has a white-man’s
heart!
N.S.W.
MARY BELL.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Ex-soldier (30) wants employment town or country,
with a chance to learn something preferred. First-
class comet player.—3226.
Middle-aged Scotch widow desires position as
companion to invalid or elderly lady or look after
children in return for passage to England.—3l99.
Young lady, Sydney, wants typing work. Used to
handling MSS. Will give special consideration and
rates to freelnnc. journalists.—32o2.
Wanted by refined widow, Sydney (own home),
part-time housekeeping for bachelors’ home; or would
look after home while owner away on holidays. Good
plain cook. Refs.—32o7.
Young woman, long exp. home dressmaking,
designing, cutting and making, particularly children’s
attire, wants employment Sydney, Manly or Mosman,
£2 10s. per week. Refs. —3224.
Pianiste and teacher of piano wishes to hear of
town in N. S. Wales or Vic. where there is an opening.
Refs.—3279.
B.A. will coach for intermediate, leaving certificate
or matric. Minimum fees; individual attention.
—3273.
Single man (26) wants job on wheat farm in
N. S. Wales. Lifetime experience.—3196.
Ex-soldier (31), good mechanic, 100 cars-a-year
salesman (three-year average), earning £6OO a year,
wants position in Islands or East. Refs.—3lB6."
Ex-soldier, Sydney, 10 years’ experience in accounts,
wants temporary position with small remuneration,
firm of auditors preferred.—3l74.
Ex-soldier (26), Q’land, wants job as cook or
houseman on big station. Refs. —3188.
Scandinavian (24), N.S.W., two years out, wants
experience on sheep station as jackeroo. Strong;
handy with tools; can ride.—3269.
Nurse (Truby King methods), 36, would take com-
plete charge of infant, also willing to supervise home
and staff while parents have holiday; Sydney pre-
ferred. Refs.—32s7.
To buy “The Laws of Scientific Hand Reading,” by
William G. Benham.—32o4.
To buy books illustrated by Phil May. Phil May’s
Annuals and catalogues of May’s drawings.-—3225.
To buy reflex camera, without lens; half-plate or
quarter-plate graflex considered.—3l7B.
To buy book “The Precious Seed.”—2Bs7.
Words of “Arab’s Farewell to His Steed.” —3278.
Words of verse entitled “Wraiths” that appeared
in a publication during the war.—32ol.
Words of recitation “My Son,” recently given over
the wireless.-—3271.
Whereabouts of George Flint, bricklayer, last heard
of at Parramatta (N.S.W.), between 10 and 15
years ago. (To Mrs. E. A. Mitchell, 6507 Baltimore-
avenue, St. Helena, Baltimore, U.S.A.).
Information Sought.
What are the taxes on the transfer of
mining shares and mining property in
Q’land? —2481.
Ordinarily the immediate taxation on
transfer of mining shares (scrip) is by
stamp duty, 6d. for every £lO. Transfer
of mining lease: Transfer fee £1 and stamp
duty 10s, for every £5O of consideration.
Transfer of other mining holdings: Trans-
fer fee ss. and the same stamp duty as in
the case of mining lease. The question is
more fully answered under the heading “Con-
veyance or Transfer” in the schedule to
the Q’land “Stamps Acts Consolidated”
(page 36). There is also the income-tax on
the profit on sale of the shares, etc.
(1) Has Japan compulsory military train-
ing, and what is the strength of her peace-
time army? (2) Where can particulars of
the Japanese army he obtained? —323o.
(1) Service in the army or navy is uni-
versal and compulsory. Liability commences
at the age of 17 and extends to the age of
40, actual service beginning at 20 in peace-
time. The establishment of the active army
in 1928 was 15,540 officers and 198,800 other
ranks. (2) “Statesman’s Year Book,” avail-
able at most public libraries.
Is it possible to operate an all-electric
wireless receiver in Sydney? —324o.
All-electric receivers can only be operated
off alternating current supply unless they
are specially designed for direct current
operation. In the city of Sydney direct
current supply only is available, so that the
commercial all-electric receiver would not be
suitable. In suburban areas of Sydney
alternating current is employed, which is
suitable for the operation of the all-electric
receiver.
(1) Gan I learn clay modelling by a
postal course? (2) Does any Australian
school teach same? (3) Where can I obtain
modelling-clay? (4) Cost of same? —3136.
(1) Don’t know of any such course. (2)
Yes. East Sydney Technical College, Darling-
hurst. (3) W. C. Penfold and Co., 88 Pitt-
street, Sydney. (4) Plain modelling clay, 4d.
per lb.; plasticine, Is. 6d. per lb.
What advantages are to be gained by the
use of a frame aerial in a wireless receiver
instead of the usual outdoor aerial? —3228.
A frame aerial has directional properties
which can be made use of to reduce inter-
ference from near-by high-powered stations.
Static and interference from leaky insula-
tors, motors and power mains is also con-
siderably reduced by the use of a frame
aerial. It can be used on portable receivers
and in localities where it is not possible to
erect an outdoor aerial. Its chief disadvan-
tage is that a more sensitive. receiver is
required to obtain volume than in the case
of an outdoor aerial.
What are the qualifications necessary to
join the ambulance service in Sydney, and
where should I apply? —3l9s.
Applicants must be British subjects, sound
in wind and limb, over 21 years of age, and
of a minimum height of sft. 6in. Vacancies
are generally advertised in the S. M. Herald.
What weekly payment is an injured
worker entitled ' to under the N.S.W.
Workers’ Compensation Act? —3179.
A payment equal to two-thirds of his
average weekly earnings for the 12 months
prior to the accident, up to £3. In addition,
he is entitled to £1 for a dependent wife
and Bs. 6d. for each dependent child under
the age of 14 years. The total compensation
payable does not exceed £5 per week. .
What are the odds against one color turn-
ing up two, three, four or more times in
succession in roulette? —3284.
•There is no mathematical basis for com-
puting such odds. Theoretically it is an
even money chance which of the two colors
turns up at any throw. A recent actual
instance has been reported where there were
17 consecutive blacks, one red, then 16 con-
secutive blacks again.
. (1) If a lessee has the option of renew-
ing a lease at a rent to he agreed upon hy
lessor and lessee, how would the rent he
determined if they are unable to agree? (2)
If a lessee erects houses or huts on the pre-
mises can the lessor claim them? (3) If
land is let for a specific purpose, such as
potato-growing, can the tenant put in any
other crop or use the land in any other way ?
—3194.
(1) The parties should agree upon an
arbitrator, submit the matter to him and
abide by his decision. (2) Yes, if they
adhere to the soil and thus become an in-
tegral part of the property; but not if they
merely rest on it and are removable. (3)
No.
(1) Does the U.S.A. allow Britishers with
capital to enter and become citizens over
and above the immigration quota? (2) llow
much capital does each individual require?
(3) Hotv long is a well-to-do visitor allowed
to stay? (4) Is it easy to get a permit to
stay longer? —32ss.
(1) No. (2) The amount is left to the
discretion of the immigration official at the
port of arrival. The visitor must have
enough to keep him until he finds employ-
ment or for the period of his stay. (3) The
length of his stay is not conditioned by his
financial resources. (4) After six months
the period may be extended if the immigra-
tion official is satisfied that the request is
a bona fide one due to an unforeseen
emergency.
What paint should I use for (1) Inside
and outside of galvanised-iron water-tanks?
(2) Galv.-iron roof? (3) Galv.-iron fire-
place?—3l93.
(1) Two coats aluminium paint, allowing
24 hours for drying first coat and 36 hours
or longer before filling tank with water. (2)
If new, give a coat of galv.-iron primer,
after which apply a coat of oxide paint, such
as structural- and roof-paint. (3) A heat-
resisting black enamel.
When and how were the ships City of
Sydney, Ly-ee-moon and New Guinea
wrecked in Disaster 8ay? —3166.
The City of Sydney, a passenger steamer
of 734 tons, plying between Melbourne and
Sydney, was wrecked at Disaster Bay on
Nov. 6, 1862, during foggy weather. No
lives were lost. The Ly-ee-moon, 745 tons,
another passenger ship, was wrecked off
Green Cape during a fine night on May
30', 1886, and 76 lives were lost. The New
Guinea, 1700 tons, was wrecked at Disaster
Bay on Feb. 13, 1911. No lives were lost.
What does the peculiar music which intro-
duces the “ Barcarolle” (“Tales of Hoffman}”)
represent ? —2804.
It is intended to create an atmosphere of
charm and repose, the scene representing
Venice at night; a balcony overlooking the
Grand Canal, distant lights, etc. The so-
called Barcarolle begins as a vocal duet,
afterwards supported by full chorus.
What other Judges sat with Judge Lukin
when the timber-workers’ award was made?
—3063.
Judge Lukin made the award, and the Full
Court consisting of Chief Judge Dethridge,
Judge Lukin and Judge Beeby, fixed the
working hours.
A man wills two-thirds of his estate to
his sister for the benefit', of his child, whom
she is bringing up. The, other third he wills
to his wife, who is not living with him. (1)
In the event of his death can the wife claim
more than a third of his estate? (2) Can
she claim the child and the two-thirds?
—3lll.
(1) If the third of the estate is sufficient
for her adequate maintenance, then no ; but
if insufficient she may apply to the Court for
further provision. (2) In the circumstances,
any change in the custody of the child—
whose welfare is the first consideration—
would probably necessitate an application
to the Court.
(1) In Mr. Bavin’s proposal to settle
the Maitland (V.8.1V.) coal dispute, was
the reduction in the miners’ wages to be
Is. per ton cut, or Is. less in the week’s
wages? (2) How many tons of coal per
week can an average ' miner cut unth the
machinery in the northern mines? —29l6,
(1) A reduction of Is. per ton in the
total wages cost, to be contributed to par-
tially by a reduction in the miners’ hewing
rate and other contract rates, and the
balance by a small reduction in the daily
wage rates of all other classes of labor at
the mines. (2) This depends upon the type
of machine used, the height and nature of
seam, and the number of days worked.
Each machine requires two men to operate
it, and in a seam of coal 9ft. high their
joint daily capacity may be stated to be:
“Puncher” type, 120 tons; “Sullivan” type,
300 tons; “Arc Wall” type, 700 tons. Of
course they do not, on account of limitation
of output, reach capacity point.
(1) Where would I apply in Sydney for
a job at wheat-lumping and wheat-yard
work? (2) When does the season commence
and what are the wages? (3) Is is neces-
sary to have experience? (4) What union
would I have to join? —3o96.
(1) Wheat lumpers are engaged on the
spot by the elevator agents and wheat
agents, during the time wheat is being re-
ceived at the railway yards during the har-
vest. (2) About the third week in Novem-
ber, but this depends on the weather.
Wheat lumpers are paid at piece-work rates,
and last year they were Bs. 4d. per 100
bags on bagged stacks, and ss. per 100 bags
at the elevators. (3) Wheat agents gener-
ally re-engage men they have employed
during the previous seasons. (4) The men
engaged are usually members of the A.W.IL
A bald patch has appeared at back of
my head, and hair is still falling out. What’s
the cause and best treatment? —2678.
Depends on your age. If you are young
it will cure itself in time. If it is the loss
of hair due to advancing middle age, there’s
no treatment likely to be beneficial, except
attention to general health.
What are the prospects of seal-catching
in Maoriland waters, and where can parti-
culars regarding the industry be obtained ?—
3232.
There is a close season at present, which
expires on Nov. 27, 1931, but which may be
extended. It does not apply to Campbell
Island, where seals may be taken under
license issued by the Minister of Marine,
Wellington, from whom particulars can be
obtained.
Is an enlarged heart dangerous, and what
are the symptoms and treatment? —3142.
Danger depends on severity of symptoms,
among which are breathlessness, tired feel-
ing, headaches, swollen ankles and occasional
nausea. All the symptoms need not be pre-
sent. Such cases require qualified medical
attention.
(1) Are Epsom salts good for rheumatism
if used in a hot bath? (2) Are they also
good for rheumatoid arthritis and reducing
weight?- —3205.
(1) There is no medical evidence that they
are beneficial. The hot bath, irrespective
of salts, usually eases the pain. (2) No.
If I receive payment of a mortgage by
cheque drawn to order and crossed, is it
necessary for me to give a stamped receipt?
—3229.
You give a stamped receipt in acknow-
ledgment of payment whether in cash or
by cheque. In your case the discharge on
the mortgage is sufficient.
How to destroy tiny ants that infest a
bowling green? —3l4o.
Syringe the nests with strong benzine,
kerosene, boiling water, carbolic acid or
bisulphide of carbon. The last-named
remedy can be used also in the following
way. Make a hole about Ift. deep in the
centre of the nest, and pour into it about
half a cup of bisulphide of carbon and im-
mediately close the hole over with clay or
some other heavy soil. The fumes from the
carbon will penetrate through the nest, and
will not only kill the ants but destroy the
eggs. Sprinkling insecticide about the
crevices by which they enter is also a good
method of extermination.
(1) What educational qualifications are
required to become an articled law clerk in
S. Aus.? (2) How long is a person liable
to be summoned for debt from the time he
has incurred it in S. Aus.? —3l3l.
(1) Would require to pass a preliminary
examination, also examinations in law and
serve articles; for full details apply to the
Master of the Supreme Court, Adelaide, who
is head of the examining body. (2) In the
case of a simple contract debt, if the creditor
allows six years to pass without making his
debtor pay, his remedy thereafter is barred
by the Statute of Limitations. The debt
may, however, have been recovered during
that period by past payment, payment of
interest or written and signed acknowledg-
ment.
(1) What is the difference between the
Dawes and the Young plans of reparations?
(2) Why was the Dawes plan rejected? —
2916.
(1) The Dawes plan prescribed a schedule
of payments for a term of years, but did
not define Germany’s ultimate liability. If
Germany found it impossible to pay, the
transfer of funds was to be postponed, and,
if necessary, payment was to be reduced
or even cancelled. The Young plan divides
payment into unconditional and conditional
annuities, payment of which instalments in
the event of temporary exchange difficulties
can be postponed till the following year, when
it must be paid together with that year’s
annuity. (2) Because Germany insisted on a
definition of her liability. The creditor Gov-
ernments, through a committee, of which Owen
D. Young was chairman, re-examined the
Dawes plan and agreed on a reparation total.
Biographical details concerning Barer oft
Boake and estimate of his place in Austra-
lian literature? —32B3.
He was the son of an Irish father and
an Australian mother, and was born at Bal-
main (Sydney) on March 26, 1866. Trained
as a surveyor, but became for a while a
boundary-rider and drover on the Western
plains of N.S.W. and Q’land. He- com-
mitted suicide by hanging himself in 1892
at Sydney. His posthumous volume of
verse, “Where the Dead Men Lie,” inspired
by his recollection of Monaro and the Dia-
mantina, shows promise, but little more; and
his reputation rests mainly on the one power-
ful but morbid poem that gives the volume
its title.
Does Anybody Know?
How to make a grease-trap for private
house? (Not the army type where grass is
used.)—32ls.
Information Supplied.
2765. —Half to three parts fill a pickle-
bottle with blood or raw liver. Fill up with
water and place in the sun until thoroughly
rotted. Make an enclosure of boughs or
dead limbs about 12ft. in diameter, with
two openings about 2ft. wide and opposite
one another. Bury the decoy bottle in the
centre, leaving about one inch of the neck
out of the ground. Fasten a stick across
each opening about six inches above the
ground. Set a trap at each opening so that
when a dog steps over the stick he puts Ins
foot on the trap. This is effective until the
decoy dries up.—“ John W.”
Brief Answers.
Mine: First, fall in tin prices ; after that,
smaller recoveries, due partly to failure of contractors
to deliver plant to time. No immediate prospect
of a div R.C.: See the manager of the local
branch of the bank and ask him to advise. Probably
he will require production of death certificate, some
evidence of identity and the bank passbook. It is
assumed she had no other property... .V.H.: Ellyou
Goldfields, c/o J. Farran, 77 King-street, Sydney;
Placer Development, Wingello House, Angel-place,
Sydney. Credentials seem excellent... .M.F.: Write
secretary, Society for Cultui’al Relations between
Great Britain and'the U.S.S.R., 23 Tavistock-square,
London, W.C.I. . . .A.G.: (1) Approach Angus and
Robertson or Dymock’s Book Arcade —both Sydney.
(2) Wm. McFee is an American author of fine sea
stories. “Letters from an Ocean Tramp” (1908) was
his first' published book, now scarce. (3) Any
bookseller would put you in the way of obtaining
catalogues containing first-edition prices. .. .R.F.S.:
(1) Write the Registrar, Sydney Uni. (2) Advanced
students in Arts and Science only may be admitted
to degrees at the Sydney Uni. without having passed
the Matriculation Examination. For details, see
Uni. Calendar for 1929 P.F.C.: Can’t say without
knowing conditions to which you subscribed. Write to
the secretary and ascertain your position... .H.J.C.:
(1) (2) and (3) Where just cause is shown the
Court may modify or discharge its order for alimony.
Discharge usually follows on the wife’s re-marriage.
If there are infant children of the original marriage
in the wife’s custody the Court may, however, only
vary the order. (4) A solicitor is not necessary....
J.C.: In August, 1924, Wanganella sold ram 915 to
Roy McCaughey for 5000 guineas. In July, 1927,
F. D. McMaster, Dalkeith, sold ram David to F. S.
Falkiner and Sons, Ltd., for 5000 guineas. These
are the only two sales on record of a ram sold at
the price. In October, 1920, Wanganella sold ram
No. 502, with 20 ewes, for 6000 guineas to A. M.
Conroy of S’Africa. All privately —-C.C.: Write
Secretary, Rationalist Association, 635 North Clark-
street, Chicago. .. .11.D.P.: Once rubber has
been melted it is not possible to restore it to a
solid body with the same characteristics as the
original.... F.L.8.: Write to the Under-Secretary
Dept, of Mines, Perth J.8.N.: Procure a copy of
“Record of Mining in the Northern Territory” from
Dept, of Home Affairs, Canberra, F.C.T C. 8.:
(1) The Dunbar was wrecked at South Head, Sydney,
on August 20, 1857. (2) To which Govt, schools
do you refer?... .C.H.W.: Write to A. R. Penfold,
Curator, the Technological Museum, Harris-street,
Sydney... .H.L.D.: We have consulted a score of
military experts as to the significance of the sen-
tence “I have taught a boy to march briskly,” said
by you to have been used by instructors in teaching
recruits to remember a sequence of drill movements
but none could help. It was probably only used by
one instructor. They all have their own methods
and ideas... .J.P.: Apply T. and G. Life Ass. Soc.,
Ltd., Queen-street, Brisbane... .W.T.H.: Sponge
yourself all over with cold water two or three times
a day. Dab lotion calamin on affected parts....
F.L.: (1) Yes, a little. They are toxic to some
people. (2) Not in moderation. .. .W.C.: See page
558, “Whitaker’s Almanack, 1929.” It can be con-
sulted at any public libarary.... W.S.F.: Consult
“Whitaker’s Almanack, 1929” p. 552 and “Daily
Mail Year Book, 1929,” p. 23. Both can be seen
at the Brisbane Public Library... .D.G.M.: Serve
guests first: lady on your right, then on left, etc.;
male guests next, and your family last... .W.E.:
Yes, provided no clouds obstructed the view....
E.F.: (1) Accountant isn’t necessary; almost im-
possible to do without a solicitor; (2) Registrar-
General, 283 Queen-street; (3) Depends on authorised
capital. If nominal capital was greater than issued
capital, two meetings of shareholders could authorise
the increase—provided there was nothing in the
articles or in the agreement, made or implied with
existing shareholders, affecting an increase of capital.
. ...J.L.8.: No; gamble for those who can afford
to 105 e... .P.T.1.: Better wait. .. .S.C.H.: All right
if you can afford to lose your money. If you can’t,
look for something established whose management
has proved itself... .H.S.R.: (1) £3l 10s. (2) £5O
at least... .P.C.: Cannot trace a painter named Geo.
B. Shaw. Unknown to the National Art Gallery of
N.S.W W. 0.1.: Try B. M. Corrigan and Co.,
189 Sussex-street, Sydney.... J.J.M.M.: The Secretary,
N.S.W. Cricket Assoc., 254 a George-street, Sydney,
will supply you with plans and specifications if you
write to him....F.5.: The flow of water at mean
stage over Niagara Falls is 222,000 cub. ft. per
second; at low stage, 176,000 cub. ft R.D.: (1)
Let us have a look at the printed matter from
which you took the words. (2) Try John Danks
and Sons, Ltd., 324 Pitt-street; and Lysaght Bros.,
Bridge-street—both Sydney A.D.T.: Robert Keable,
the novelist, was an Anglican clergyman for nine
years and resigned orders in 1920. He was an
army chaplain during the war. His best-known
novels are “Simon Called Peter,” “The Mother of
All Living,” “Peradventure,” “Recompense.” He
died at Tahiti in December, 1927. A Bulletin
contributor wrote of his works in the Red Page
(B. 8/2/’2B). .. .R.H.F.: Agents for the Evinrude
motor are Duval Trading Co., Margaret-street,
Sydney; and for the Johnson, O’DonOghue Bros.,
School-street, Balmain East, Sydney... .P.G.L.:
There is no branch of the Legion of Frontiersmen
in Sydney n0w....P.W.: (1), (2) and (3) No
S.F.: Orange Leader and Advocate. .. .0.G.W.:
Communicate with either Odhams Press, Ltd., 93
Long Acre, London, W.C.2, or the Sporting Times,
20 Bury-street, St. James, London, 5.W.1... .C.J.L.:
Write to Probate and Administration Office, Law
Courts, William-street, Melbourne. .. .E.A.: (1) Write
to W.A. Airways, Ltd., 35 A.M.P. Buildings, Perth,
W.A. ; Q.A.N.T.A.S., Ltd., Longreach, Q.; or Larkin
Aircraft Co, Ltd., Dudley-street, Melbourne. (2)
Write to the Labor Dept., Old Treasury Buildings,
Spring-street, Melbourne.—K.A.: They are all
aboriginal words. “Mirrigang” means playground
of the dingo, “Kangaloola” kangaroo hunting ground,
“Wandandian” home of the lost lovers, and “Wari-
alda” place of wild honey.... Drought: On the facts
stated, if the sellers gave delivery without delay on
the termination of the strike they fulfilled that part
of their contract. They were not liable for non-
delivery during its continuance. Had the price of
cornsacks risen instead of fallen, would the agent
have refused to take delivery? The failure of crops
in the district is the purchaser’s risk. ... J.F.: The
Melbourne Cup in 1897 was won by Gaulus; in 1898
by The Grafter... .F.J.H.: If you write to the
secretary to Liquidators, Bawra, Ltd., 540 Little
Collins-street, Melbourne, stating full particulars of
the shares in which you are interested they will be
pleased to advise you in the matter. The expense
in connection with an application for a duplicate
certificate is the cost of advertising the loss of the
original, which would probably be between 10s. and
£l, and a fee of 2s. for a new certificate .F.T.M.:
You gave instructions to the solicitor which he
carried out, and he was entitled to deduct his fee,
on scale, from the moneys he held for y0u....
(Many others mailed.)


Moulding the Mileage
that ensures to users of
DUNLOP
that outstanding durability and economy
which has won for these high quality
dependable tyres such popularity among
Australian motorists.
FT
E 1
-Trxnatf
A
8
“*???!■ I
ij§ he i
ii
si
me
pj-;
1
5=J-\-
#
fowl*
L
g?
1 ■«
k l «
§>
e*
<2
cs&>
5=3
c3<S>
£4
sm
IIMHI
-a
Dunlop
tube
in a
Dunlop
cover
makes
the
perfect
tyre!
* * ♦
8000 GARAGES
STOCK THEM
Who
travels on
DUNLOP
travels
well/


ytuyu
The
Rabbit
may have good cause fox
dejection owing to the
label he sees. But the
Skin
Owner
has
a different viewpoint. He wants top values for his
consignments. He knows that the use of a Winch-
combe Carson label results in the realisation of that
objective. For highest market prices
CONSIGN RABBIT, FOX AND OTHER SKINS TO
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
SALESMEN, LTD.
Winchcombe House, or 99-101 Eagle St.,
Bridge St., Sydney, Brisbane.
QUALITY COUNTS.
Graziers recognise that quality is of paramount importance.
The thorough application of VITA-LICK ensures the best
quality of wool, and many graziers are benefiting by the
recognition of this fact.
USE VITA-LICK CONSTANTLY
VITA-LICK LIMITED,
STOCK LICK SPECIALISTS,
107 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
PEAPES
clothe men AND their sons.
A suggestion from PEAPES:
Tailoring orders for Christ-
mas should be placed as
early as possible to avoid the
last-minute rush before the
holidays.
George
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney*
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
MORE PRIZES FOR FARMERS.
In order to encourage farmers to pass
on to others the fruits of their observa-
tion and experience, “The Bulletin” will
give three prizes for the most helpful
contributions during the six months to
Dec. 31 next.
Points will be awarded for every con-
tribution submitted, if thought worthy and
whether printed or not, and two prizes—
the first of £25 and the second of £lo—
be given to the winners of most
points.
A special prize of £5 will be given for
the best individual contribution.
Only contributions that are of practical
value to men on the land are asked for;
literary merit is not taken into account, so
long as the meaning is expressed plainly.
The prizes are in addition to the ordi-
nary payments made for all “Bulletin”
contributions.
A
WHAT’S BEST TO DO WITH
STUBBLE-STRAW?
Nutritive Value of Wiieat-straw.
I Hill believe that “Noah
braid’ (B. i(i/30/'29) has either misread
tne U S.A. figures with regard to the protein
content or wheat-straw, or else the authority
he quotes has made a mistake. The N.S.W.
Department's analysis of wheat-straw gave
•>.N p.c. of crude protein, while Prof. Pater-
so", ot the Perth University, gave 3.4 p.c.,
which, he says, is the average of different
Australian analyses. Of course, the co-effici-
ents of digestion vary with the type of wheat
and the nature 1 of the season, and it is cer-
tain ly the digestible proportion of the crude
W°l^, n that is of any value. In this respect
VVolif s revised percentages of the digestibility
oi feedstuff's show that the co-efficient of
digestion of wheaten-straw is 26 p.c. On
that basis tile digestible protein in Austra-
lian wheat-straw would vary from 0.88 p.c.
(Paterson) to 0.98 p.c. (N.S.W. Depart-
ment). The best American, German and
English authorities disclose that wheat-straw
contains 0.00 p.c. of digestible protein, with
an albuminoid ratio of 1 to 33. Surely those
figures prove beyond a shadow of doubt that
fsonh Eraids ’ 0.2 p.c. of protein must be
wrong, and his digestible protein ratio of .1
to 336 ridiculous.
My point is that cereal straws have a
definite feeding value. This is obvious from
the digestible protein content which I have
given. And it abundantly confirmed by
the practical experience of the majority of
farmers, who frequently look to their stubbles
to carry their sheep and other stock through
a lean period. It is because of its undoubted
value as a reserve that farmers should
always carry a stack or two of clean straw,
gathered and stacked immediately after the
harvester lias been over the Crop. In stack-
ing. its palatability and feeding value will
be considerably increased if a thick molasses
solution is sprinkled liberally over each layer.
Straw is a good “maintenance” standby, and
is particularly valuable in supplying rough-
age or bulk, and a “balancing” medium,
when handfeeding ruminants with concen-
trated feedstuff's rich in albuminoids.
Straw or Stubble-straw?
“Tumbe Munda”: “F.S.A.” quotes Pro-
fessor Perkins, and gives further analyses of
straw, refusing to recognise that there is
straw and stubble-straw. I have personally
received much advice from the professor,
and I was also a student at the first winter
school for farmers at Roseworthy, where
he made his experiments, and I have there
seen the straw of wheat which was cut,
stocked, stacked and threshed according to
European methods. This is the straw which
was analysed—-a vastly, different material
from stubble-straw.
This Man Says “Don’t Have Any” !
“Hortus”: My answer to the question
“Wlmt’s best to do with it?” is “Don’t
have any.” Small farmers would do well
to follow the methods of Old Country
men, especially as Australian straw compares
favorably with the threshed straw in Europe.
There would not be half the worry about
fodder conservation if this were taken into
serious eonsideraton. There is no getting
away from it—we shall have to cut our crops
to the ground, put the sheaves in stooks,
stack them and afterwards thresh them,
stacking the residual straw, which to an
Old Country man is a goldmine. Wliat Eng-
lish farmer would be without his wlieaten-,
oaten- or barley-straw to mix with his “bush
hay” as. he puts it through his chaffcutter?
This mixed chaff is the foundation of a
food ration all over the British Isles.
To make it more palatable, in the colder
climates mangel-wu rzel s are grown, pitted
and put through a chopper and mixed with
this chaff, and the dairy-cattle thrive on the
mixture. Others mix molasses with it in
the feeding troughs, and there is nothing
more nutritive and strengthening for work-
ing horses. But why waste time and molasses
by spraying stubble-straw with the latter?
Better far spend the time on conserving the
straw. It will take a lot more time, but
isn’t it worth it? Look what money it
saves in the long run. A man said to me
the other day: “But there is no fodder con-
servation necessary in England, for the pas-
tures are always green and there is always
plenty of rain.” In truth there is a big prob-
lem. The winter housing of cattle and the
hand-feeding of stock in the paddocks neces-
sitate very careful fodder conservation indeed.
However small a farmer may be, he would not
be without his rickyard of stacks of bush-hay
wheaten-, oaten-, barley- and pea-straw. It is
a shame to see such waste in a country like
A ustralia.
No doubt the large wheat-farmers are
faced with a more serious problem. There
are only two things that really can be done
in their case:
(1) Carry as many sheep as possible,
and let them graze the stubble. A great
deal of the straw will be eaten, and
the balance is broken and trampled into the
ground, and is generally, put into such a
state that it can be ploughed under easily
without, the texture of the land being inter-
fered with. This rotted straw plus the solid
and liquid excrement of the sheep will prove
the nearest equivalent to farmyard manure,
which is the basis of all fertilising in the
older countries, but which cannot be col-
lected and used in Australia to any great
extent.
(2) Burn the stubble, and, although there
is a great outcry against this method, it
often proves very, helpful. It must be remem-
bered that a wheat crop of 30 bushels grain
to the acre removes from the soil during its
growth 291 b. potash. How is this amount
of potash replaced every year? I should
advise dividing the wheat area up into sec-
tions, and alternating the two methods out-
lined above. In this wav the quantities of
the different fertilising ingredients which are
removed from the soil will, with the cus-
tomary addition of -Jcwt. or lewt. of super, at
time of sowing, be very cheaply and very
conveniently replaced.
THE BEST MALLEE PLOUGH’.
“Mallee Voice” : Re fallowing mallee land,
“Niwink” (B. 9/10/’29) evidently does not
know the skim-plough I mentioned, because
seven horses can work it with ease. Our
skim-ploughi is a stump-jump mouldboard.
The point I wish to make is that it is
more economical to have seven horses work-
ing this 12-furrow skim-plough, turning a
6ft. width of land per stroke, than it is to
use a cultivator which takes 10 horses to
pull and makes 9ft. of inferior fallow per
stroke—inferior, anyhow, to that made by
the skim-plough. Mallee land should be
cultivated the first two or three seasons with
a disc implement—the Sundercut for pre-
ference —-to cut the top roots, pull out stumps
and assist to destroy shoots, before any
attempt is made to fallow it. This prepares
it to receive the stump-jump mouldboard
plough; and the 12-furrow skim-plough is
a stump-jump mouldboard, with a frame
strong and rigid enough to do the work
with decent care. The strongest plough can
be strained if it gets hung on to a tenacious
stump and the driver insists on his team
pulling at it with their full strength. Granted
that the heavy six-furrow mouldboard makes
a better fallow and is required in heavy
land, where it will take seven good horses
to make a 3ft. Gin. stroke. The same num-
ber of horses will work the skim-plough for
a 6ft. stroke ; and in the light mallee land,
for which I recommend it, it does very good
work at a much lower cost. The upkeep
is no greater, either.
SUB.-OLOVER CULTIVATION.
“Brady’s Lookout” : I have read “Pondo’s”
par. on sub. clover (B. 16/10/’29), and
can confirm every word of it. I have) sown
cleaned sub. seed on cultivated land finely
worked, and also on grass ground • just
scratched over, both with lewt. super. Re-
sult: complete failure on the worked land,
and a first-class growth on the other. I
have also broadcast sub. seed in the burr
on grass-land with super, and no harrowing
at all, and it took all right. In this country
(Tas.) the trouble is that the frost, of which
we get plenty; “lifts” the worked land and
the young sub. with it. That’s what hap-
pened to mine* and I know of other areas
affected in the same way. The three lots
mentioned above were all sown at the same
time and same season, so the thing is self-
evident. There is no doubt that in the burr
is the natural way of seeding; in that form
it is not nearly so liable to be taken by
birds. (Our worst pests are starlings and
goldfinches.) Sow early in the autumn.
I should be glad to have information
from “Pondo” or others of the best method
of separating seed burr from the straw. I
usually wait till seed leaves the straw, then
rake straw away and sweep up the seed.
YOUNG GRASS AND NUTRITION.
“Hatter”: It is well established now that
young grass, grazed at intervals of three
weeks or a month and allowed to grow about
4in. high between times, retains the nutritive
properties of the “spring flush” throughout
the season. Moreover, all kinds of common
grasses yield food of similar value in the
early stages of their growths: this indicates
that it is even more important to keep poor
pastures closely grazed than the better ones.
As grasses approach maturity wide differ-
ences develop between them, since some
species produce more stem containing indiges-
tible fibre in proportion to the succulent
leaves.
It is interesting to note the difference
in the milk yield (1) under the new system
of pasture management and (2) when the
grass was allowed to mature. Taking records
of 4000 cows in Norfolk (Eng.) fed on the
latter system, the average drop in yield per
week was as follows -
April . . . . 0.451 b. August . . 4.771 b.
May . . . . 1.231 b. September , . 0.121 b.
June .. .. 7.891 b. October .. 5.171 b.
July . . . . 6.381 b.
~ 'h‘‘ yield varied only between 2.71 b. and
■>.7lb. when the cows were on winter feed.
In April and May the grass is young and
nutritious, and there is little falling off. In
June the grass has “got away” from the
herd, and as it approaches maturity the
milk yield drops nearly 81b. per week.’ July
is in England normally the wettest montii
of the year, and thus J considerable growth
is made and the fall in yield is reduced, but
the full benefit is noticed more in August.
In September growth slows up again, more
mature grass is eaten, and the milk-flow
lessens accordingly.
It must be remembered, however, that the
growth of grass is subject to variations: it
is limited by the absence of warmth, as in
winter; the absence of sufficient moisture, as
in midsummer in Australia; and the absence
of sufficient daylight (this last deficiency
explains the slow growth in the autumn,
when other conditions all seem so favorable).
Hence it is difficult to gauge the number of
stock a given area will carry, and it may
be necessary to use the mowing-machine or
lay up a paddock for liay. The aftermath of
a hay crop is as rich in protein as other
young pastures.
To keep in condition, every animal must
have sufficient digestible protein to repair the
wear and tear of bodily tissue, also suffici-
ent starch equivalent for the supply of heat
and energy. In addition, milking cows, grow-
ing stock, and animals to be fattened have
a production requirement that must be added
to the ration required for maintenance.
In the past it has been the practice to
feed concentrates to grazing animals, but
now the surprisingly high protein contents
of young grass are recognised it is evident
that a food rich in carbohydrates makes the
best added ration. Trials show that the best
results follow with the use of oats or other
cereals in place of bran or cake. It is
claimed by American workers that the feed-
ing of cereals to cows while on grass, whilst
not giving an economic return at the time,
paid in the long run, because the cows kept
up their yield better during the latter part
of the season.
There _ is, of course, no one food or mix-
ture which forms an ideal supplement to
grass, for the other foods must vary accord-
ing to the class of stock for which they are
intended.
MINERAL LICKS.
“Will Seer” : Many U.S.A. authorities are
quoted by “Ovis” (B. 18/9/”29) to the effect
that it is inadvisable to use rock phosphate
in a lick, owing to the high fluorine content.
“Logos” (B. 25/9/’29) says: “The mineral
[rock phosphate] passes through the animal
body without change, and does not convey
any phosphoric acid into the system of the
animal.” (I take, it the same applies to
fluorine.)
Both contributors cannot be right. “Ovis”
bases' his remarks mainly on experiments
conducted in America ; if conducted in Aus-
tralia the result may have been different.
Australian soils are markedly deficient in
phosphoric acid. The natural mineral sup-
plying phosphoric acid to the soil is apatite
(phosphate of lime). Now, apatite contains
more fluorine than rock phosphate; might
it not be that our soils are deficient in
fluorine also? Fluorine is an essential ele-
ment m the formation of bone and teeth,
W mu conta i n approximately .3 per cent.
u-u top-dressing of pastures with super,
(which also contains fluorine) is going to
make the necessity for phosphate lime-licks
less common; but there is a very large area
of country in Australia which cannot be top-
dressed economically, and I think “Ovis” is
wrong in getting the wind up—far better 10
advocate a reduction in the rock phosphate
used in a lick to, say, 20 per cent, which
would give an amount of fluorine approxi-
mating that required for bone and teeth
formation.
“Logos’s” pill, however, is as hard to swal-
low as a dose of castor oil. For instance, he
says that “the hard, sharp particle's of min-
eral phosphate assist in the trituration of
food.” Rock phosphate is one of the softest
of minerals, being next to talc on the scale of
hardness. Quartz acts in this way in a
fowl’s gizzard ; but, then, fowls have no teeth
and quartz is nearly as hard as a diamond.
SUDAN GRASS AND POISONING.
“Prussic”: Sudan grass, which is becom-
ing very popular in the wheat district of
N. S. Wales as a summer grazing and ensi-
lage crop, has been blamed for various cases
of stock poisoning in the last two years,
with the result that many farmers and
graziers are chary about sowing this very
useful fodder. Investigations by the N.S.W.
Agricultural Department, recently concluded,
absolve the Sudan from blame. What has
caused the trouble is seed from Sudan grass
which has been grown close to sorghum.
Cross-pollination produces a hybrid resemb-
ling sorghum, and, like that parent, contain-
ing, before it flowers, a dangerous propor-
tion of hydrocyanic acid. This property of
sorghum is well known, and for that reason
it is never fed to stock before it has flowered.
The existence of sorghum hybrids in a
Sudan crop can be detected by close examina-
tion. The stems are thicker, the leaves
broader and the stooling more profuse than
in the case of pure Sudan at the time when
grazing usually commences—when the plants
are 9 to 12 inches high. At flowering time
the heads are considerably larger than pure
Sudan, and carry more flowers.
If the hybrids are too numerous to be
removed, the only thing to be done is to
keep stock off the crop till after it has
flowered, but it must be remembered that
there is still danger from poisoning, specially
in the case of large stock, from young growth
or second growth after the main crop has
been harvested.
The only sure precaution is to use pure
seed. If it is taken from the farmer’s own
crop, demonstrably free from hybrids, it can
be sown with an easy mind. If there’s any
doubt as to the purity of the seed it should
be sent to the departmental seed laboratory
for examination.
TAR IN WOOL.
“Waldial”: Mention of R. C. Wilson's
European tour (B. 2/10/’29) recalls that
he investigated also the effects of tar in the
raw wool on the manufactured article. He
has at. liis office (Graziers’ Co-operative
Shearing Co., Sydney) specimens of tar-
affected manufactures in successive stages
of production, taken from French mills,
showing that, despite thorough scouring, the
tar shows out in the finished article. Yet it
frequently happens that in the intervening
stages between combing and felting (in the
case of hats) the presence of the tar is not
manifest.
Several possible substitutes for tar as a
branding material have been suggested: the
latest recommended by the British Research
Association is the following: Wool fat, 45
parts by weight; lime blue, 5 parts; barytes,
20 parts; Emco (light paraffin spirit), 25
parts.
HERD TESTING.
“R.X.8.” : As a business proposition herd
testing, or herd recording as it is now called,
lias not found general favor with N.S.W.
dairy-farmers. That is revealed by official
figures, and is due, in my opinion, to the
fact that a variety of erroneous ideas of
the principles and practice of herd testing
are prevalent.
Briefly, the object is to increase production
by eliminating the poor producer, and then
working and breeding from the best. The
tester or recorder is not another of those
darned inspectors who is out to annoy you,
but an official from the Dairy Branch of
the Department of Agriculture, armed with
the equipment and expert knowledge to tell
you which of the cows are paying their way,
and which are loafers who are not earning
their feed. The information he supplies is
for your benefit and private use, and is not
published in any way by the department.
But in the case of pure-breds under test,
the results may be published for the breeder’s
benefit.
If cows are being worked for milk pro-
duction only the milk flow can be increased
by correct feeding, and many dairy-farmers
(Continued on page 32.)


NO CHANCE-/
• DESPITE--
TARIFF INCREASES
YOU STILL ENJOY
IN STATE EXPRESS
3335 THE SAME
WEIGHT, QUALITY:
SIZE AND PRICE
WHICH HAVE MADE
THESE GOLDEN LEAF
VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
FIRST IN FAVOUR
AS THEY WERE FIRST
IN THE FIELD.
'M-
'M
'M
State (xpmss
mm
■■
CIGAR E-TTErS
STILL SUPREME- AT


M
m
m
m
m
mm
U
Ilf
' S '•' I•' ...
wm m ■ -. I IiSSIIiH
■Hi
■
«
m
...
■ §§
fm.
IKp
11 :
m
I
I
I
n
B if
99
iff
lillf
*
■W
V
p
W
of line:
still remair
lady driver
'PJe-man" power, speed, and
flexibility, docility under tLe
control of tlie gentlest of feminine Lands
tbese qualities, kappily combined
witli a beauty of line wbicb deliglits
tbe eye of tbe artistically inclined, be
it man s or woman s, are tbe qualities
wbicb are making Oakland increasingly
popular.
Beauty is written in every line of its
modern distinctive bodies . . , . written
witb consummate artistry.
w


a& speed, dependability, and beanty
n their most modern sense Oakland
s the car par excellence for the
O ' 'V: V
’The experienced motorist finds it a car
with poise, grace, roadability, balance . .
a car that clings to the road at any speed.
The man who understands cars is im-
pressed by its smoothness and silence
To the lady driver, Oakland appeals
’primarily by reason of its effort] ess
control. Comfortable driving results
from its properly pitched seats ; the
accessibility of every control.
The gentlest hands find Oakland easy
to steer. The daintiest foot finds it an
effortless task to stop the car, because
of its light, noiseless, dirt~and~weather~
proof wheel brakes.
Charming in its lines; delightful in its
roomy comfort ; smooth, swift, safe,
powerful, dependable, Oakland corn-
fines all the features which make a
motor car desirable . . . presenting as it
does all those attributes which make
for pride of ownership in a motor car.
Prices from £4lO
Prices given subject to change without notice*
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR.
Convenient Payments can be arranged
on the liberal C.M.A.C. Terms Plan .
RTJY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER
SERVICE EVERYWHERE
GENERAL MOTORS
(Australia ) Pty. Ltd.
Brisbane. Sydney. Melbourne. Adelaide. Perth
Metropolitan Distributors:
Brisbane: Buy from your Local Dealer.
Sydney: John McGrath, Ltd.,
, 154 Castlereagh Street.
Melbourne: Southern Motors Pty., Ltd.,
131 Lonsdale Street.
Adelaide: Geo. Mason, Ltd.,
Franklin Street.
Perth: Skipper Bailey Motor Co., Ltd.
(Milligan Street Division).
IK LAND
HE COSMOPOLITAN SIX


e
X
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
OUT ON ITS OWN!
! , ■ r
for strength
and comfort
Read what Mr.
R. H. Bartlam,
of Lara Downs
Station, Julia
Creek says about his
Wieneke No. 920.
Dear Mr. Wieneke, —Your
saddle is very comfortable. It
combines the ease of a poley
with the security of a big
saddle. I appreciate the work
and care bestowed on the
saddle. I wish you to know
that I consider the Wieneke
saddle out on its own for
strength, comfort, security and
„ . 'i; reliability, and I have been per-
’ fee tig satisfied after giving it a
£l4/14/- rigorous test.—(Signed) R.H.B.
Send for a Free Copy of my new book,
“How to Ride in Comfort.’’
JOHN WIENEKE,
The Saddle Specialist,
371 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W. ; or
434 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
In Daily Use
over all the world
THOUSANDS of women have come to
regard Cuticura as the true natural aid
to a lovely skin and attractive hands
and hair. Regular daily use of Cuticura
Soap, assisted by Cuticura Ointment
when required, purifies and beautifies
the skin, cleanses the scalp and keeps
the hair live and glossy.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d.
Sample each free.
Address: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE
3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to hnou
% ✓
?
fy
ll
Monarch
Cigar's
Craig sAitken
. Wholesale
I Distributors
I Sidney N.5.W.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED.
HUNTER HOUSE, 26 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
A purely Australian Life Insurance Office transacting all
classes of Assurance
SPECIAL Disability, Accident and Sickness Compensation,
Probate; also Medical and Hospital Benefits.
Managing Director: A. P. McLEAN. General Secretary: R. V. BOOTH.
SUTTONS OF READING, ENGLAND
Seedsmen to H.M. the King.
Vegetable and Flower Seeds.
The newest and most improved strains saved from pedigree stocks as well as the best of
the standard varieties.
We stock seeds in the original packages, or will obtain for customers any of Sutton’s well-
known varieties of flower or garden seeds, or special grass seeds for lawns, golf courses, etc.
Murdoch Bros. Pty., Ltd., Hobart, Tasmania.
CHANDLER’S VERANDAH BLINDS
ML
6ft. x Bft.
17/6
9ft. x Bft.
25/6
12ft. x Bft.
32/6
each.
CHANDLER’S VERANDAH BLINDS are made in our own factory under the
supervision of experts who have spent years in perfecting their craft. They
are sent out complete with top batten, heavy bottom roller, single and
double pulley straps, cord and staples.
The special line of blinds quoted above is made only in the 3 sizes, with Bft.
drop, and is obtainable in English White or Green or Brown block striped duck.
Prices of other sizes and qualities will be sent on applicatisn together with
samples if desired.
Prices are Free on Rails, Melbourne.
D. & W. CHANDLER LTD.
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY, VICTORIA.
can exercise very fine judgment in choosing
a cow for her milking qualities. But the
production of butter-fats is a different
matter. That quality is undoubtedly
hereditary, and the most experienced judge
will be completely baffled to choose a cow
for butter-fat production. This quality
cannot be controlled by feeding or by any
other method than by breeding. Incorrect
feeding will certainly injure the cow’s
capacity to produce butter-fats, but correct
feeding can do no more than stimulate butter-
fat production temporarily.
If you are a business-like dairy-farmer
you will eliminate the poor-producing cow
because she doesn’t pay to work and feed,
and you can apply to the department for
the assistance of a herd recorder to put you
right. Without a special training in dairy
science you can’t do it yourself, and the
most experienced judge in your district can’t
pick the low-test cows by looking them over
for you. The recorder or tester will supply
all the equipment, do all the work once a
month in connection with the test, and
supply you with a detailed report every
six months. The actual cost of testing each
cow is 6s. per year; but the Commonwealth
and the State subsidise the scheme with 2s.
each, so the farmer pays only 2s. per year
per cow. And the factory assists in this way.
Suppose there are 20 cows to be tested; then
this lot will cost £2 a year; half is payable
after the first test and the balance in instal-
ments of 3s. 4d. per month. The farmer
signs an order for the factory to deduct these
amounts from his cream cheques, and the
factory pays in one cheque to the depart-
ment.
Don’t be misled about herd-testing; if you
find you have a wrong idea of the matter, get
in touch with the dairy branch of the De-
partment of Agriculture, which will soon
put you right and start you on the road to
better profits.
SUMMER PESTS OF POULTRY.
“Jack Point”: The successful poultry
farmer is the one who is at the causes of
disease and parasitic pests all the year round,
with redoubled efforts during summer. Here
are the chief;—
Red Mite.— These infest perches, walls and cracks
of the house and surroundings, and come out on to
the birds at night and suck their blood. Symptoms
are general seedy look of the birds and poor laying.
Tie a piece of rag saturated with kerosene at each
end of the perch; the mites will not cross this.
Next, spray every crack and crevice with either
kerosene emulsion or a weak solution of Blackleaf-
-40 (nicotine sulphate). The former is recommended
on account of its cheapness. To make, dissolve one
part soap (soft preferred) with two of boiling water
and thoroughly stir in one part kerosene. Use it
full strength until you have mastered the pests;
then apply a weaker solution to prevent a repetition.
Lice. —There are several kinds which infest the
fowls’ bodies, but treatment is much the same. Give
the birds a chance to keep themselves clean by
providing a good dustbath. This should consist of
good soft earth with a handful each of sulphur,
ashes and tobacco dust, and it should be kept moist.
Where the birds are badly infested, sprinkle them
over with tobacco dust, or, better still, one of the
fluoride dusting compounds on the market.
Worms. —Easily the best treatment is the worm
capsule which can be obtained from poultry-
requisite dealers. One capsule is nearly always suffi-
cient to cure the worst case.
General. —Give the hens a chance by building up
their constitution and supplying a tonic regularly.
Epsom salts should be given once a week in the
drinking water. Wash the drinking vessels every
day and thoroughly scald them with soda once a
week. Always have the water shaded. Give plenty
of green stuff during the hot weather —-silver beet is
easily grower and greatly relished, and it should be
fed in conjunction with lucerne, rape, green wheat
or oats—any good, succulent, quickly-grown green
feed. Arrange your green crops so you will be feed-
ing two or three whilst a similar number are
coming on. Variety in feeding is a big help in
summer, when hot weather is liable to have a
depressing effect on the hens.
A FEW SAILOR’S TRICKS.
“Carrick, A. 8.”; If you want to join a
piece of rope to a length of fencing-wire for
a long haul—such as when a bogged vehicle
or implement is being got out—don’t try
knotting them together. Instead, take the
end of the rope in your hands, twist it to
open up the strands, and wind the untwisted
rope around the wire for about two feet.
It will look as if it will slip off, but either
rope or wire will snap before the splice will
slip.
When you buy a new rope, don’t tie a
knot in each end to stop the strands from
unravelling. Instead, thread a bag-needle
with waxed sewing-twine, lay one end along
the rope and bind back over it for an inch,
pulling the twine tight. Then grease the
needle, force it through the rope down
the centre of the binding,! pull tight, and cut
off. This whipping will last as long as
the rope.
If a rope is to be used out in the weather,
tarring it will more than double its life.
To tar a rope put some Stockholm tar in a
bucket and slowly pass the rope through the
liquid ; as it comes out, wipe it down with
a piece of rag. Hang it along a fence in
the sun until dry.
To splice a broken rope, unwind a single
strand frona each piece, one for 2ft„ the
other for 15in. Then lay the long strand
in where the shorter ne was lifted from,
twisting the strand up tightly the opposite
way to the twist of tin l rope as you lay it
in. When you reach the loose strand put
one over and under the other, as if you
were going to tie a knot, and pull tight.
Then wind each end around the same strand
again, along the rope. Repeat again,
and cut off the loose ends. Then unwind
another strand and lay a fresh one in its
place on the opposite side of the break, join
as before, and join the remaining strands
where they are—‘that is, midway between
the two other splices. Then lay "the whole
splice down on the floor, and roll it under
the sole of your boot to make it round.
If properly done, it is afterwards hard to
find just where this “long splice” has been
made. It doesn’t interfere with tying knots,
and is just as strong as the rest of the
rope.
Finally, the rope made in Australia from
New Zealand fibre is excellent—it is as
good as Manila, and nearly equal to the
best hemp rope, which, while wonderfully
strong, is far too expensive for ordinary use.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Amount of sugar produced in Aus-
tralia and Queensland? (2) In leading
sugar-producing countries? (3) Same in-
formation as regards cotton? (4) Amount
of wheat produced in each of the Australian
States? (5) In the three leading wheat-
growing countries of the world? —3o2o.
(1) Australian sugar production (1926-
27), 415,876 tons; Queensland supplied
389,372 tons of the total. (2) Cuba (1928),
4,493,123 short tons; India (1928),
3,221,000 tons; Dutch East Indies (1928),
2,023,550 tons; Hawaii (1928), 811,333
short tons; and Porto Rico (1928), 748,677
tons. (2) In 1928 Queensland produced
12,175,0001 b. of unginned cotton. U.S.A.
produced in 1928 14,373,000 bales of cotton
(a bale equals 5001 b.) ; India, 5,871,000
bales; China, 5,680,000 piculs (a picul equals
133J1b.) ; and Russia, 215,300 tons. (4)
For the year ending June, 1928, N.S.W. pro-
duced 26,927,100 bushels of wheat; Vic.,
26,160,814 bushels; Queensland, 3,777.000
bushels; S.A., 24,066,012 bushels; W.A.,
35,134,156 bushels; and Tas., 672,000
bushels, a total of 116,737,082 bushels for
the Commonwealth. (5) In 1926 U.S.A.
produced 832,319,000 bushels; Russia,
809,647,000 bushels and Canada 416,138,000
bushels. Australia produced 160,761,856
bushels that year.
(1) Is red tvater in coivs caused by a
germ? (2) Is it infectious? (3) Any known
cure? (4) Would it be feasible to flush
the bladder of the dnimal with disinfectant?
(5) What rcstringent will allay internal
haemorrhage if brought in direct contact ?
3129.
(1) The cause is not known. It is not
thought to be caused by bacteria, and is pro-
bably a deficiency disease. (2) Not so far as
is known at present. (3) No. (4) No.
(5) Increasing the coagulability of the blood
by giving calcium lactate internally has been
tried, but the N.S.W. Stock Department
thinks it of very little value.
llow can I cure a horse which when har-
nessed stands on his hind legs and goes off
with a bound? —3012.
If sufficient help can be procured the
animal should be held quietly but firmly
when harnessed, and led off at a walk. If
this operation is repeated a sufficient num-
ber of times the horse may eventually be-
come cured of the habit.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Gardener” : If soil intended for the seed-
pan is heated it will ensure a cleaner bed.
It is especially desirable when sowing small
or slow-maturing seeds, as the pulling out
of weeds often disturbs the germinating
seed at a critical time.
“Deejay” : Watch your barley. The sheath
opens quickly, allowing the grain to fall as
soon as ripe. It’s a terror to fall down
when ready, too. Too many good crops are
lost through a day’s delay in harvesting.
“Bufforp”: Remove all the male birds
from the hens now. Infertile eggs keep
better, especially in warm weather, than
those fertilised. When shutting the sultans
up, keep only those you want'for next breed-
ing and “pot” the others.
“Con Creet”: One station in the Yass
district (N.S.W.). makes good use of the old
Ford. Every week the boss sends a couple
of men round the fences; in the back are
carried a few spare posts, some netting,
droppers, tie-wire and tools. His rule is to
mend at the least sign of weakness, and the
whole boundary inspection is done in a
day, whilst division fences get a look over
once a fortnight. His fences certainly are
the best round about.
“Marada”: Often on the farm a broken
casting has to be plated. Instead of riveting
in the ordinary way, try this. Having bored
the holes, put bolts through all but two or
three, and screw up tightly. Run a tap
through the remaining holes, and run a
threaded rod through each. Then rivet in
the usual way. Remove the bolts one or
two at a time, and tap and rivet as with
the first. This will make a much stronger
job than can be got by any other method.
“ J.D.G.” : In an emergency, a useful sub-
stitute for a hack-saw can be made from an
old scythe-blade. Hold the blade on a log
with cutting edge up and chop lightly with
an old tomahawk to make the teeth. These,
though irregular, form a good cutting edge,
which, when dull, can be renewed by repeat-
ing the chopping process. I thus recently
cut through a mild-steel spindle in
much less time than it would have taken to
get a new saw-blade.
“Old Blue” If you’re using bush timber
for axe handles, etc., try forest- or bull-oak.
Cut a fair-sized sapling (say Ift. diameter) ;
saw into suitable lengths and leave with the
bark on for three months. Back off a piece
of the sapwood, shape for the purpose re-
quired and fit, give it a coat of sump oil,
and, contrary to the general rule, don’t take
care of it. Used once a day, and exposed lo
all weathers, it soon resembles whalebone for
toughness and improves with age.
“Hatter”; The English Department of
Agriculture issues the following table (hay
and silage are included for purposes of
comparison) :
Food Value
Starch Protein per Ton
Crop. Equivalent. Equivalent, on Farm.
Bean straw .. 23 p.c. 1.7 p.c. £3 3 0
Barley straw .. 23 ~ 0.7 „ 3 10
Good oat straw.. 20 „ 0.9 „ 2 14 0
Wheat straw . . 13 ~ 0.1 ~ 1 14 0
Good meadow hay 37 ~ 4.6 „ 6 4 0
Vetch & oat silage 13 ~ 1.6 „ 1 17 0
“John Quill”: In well-sinking on Major
Murphy’s property at Wellington (N.S.W.),
lucerne roots were found at the depth of 56ft.
“L.S.L.” : The action of the M.L. Govern-
ment in allowing the Australian ’possum to
come into the comparatively tiny North
Auckland peninsula was little short of mad-
ness. The orchardist is, it is true, allowed
to destroy the animal at any time of the
year, but its nocturnal and elusive habits
make its eradication almost impossible. I
have yet to hear of any fruit' the creature
will not eat —bitter oranges are its latest
fancy in these parts —but plum and apricot
blossoms are its favorite food. If it misses
any, then it finishes them off in the fruit—
and the struggling farmer at the same time.


PAINFUL POEMS
Within that house I dined last
night,
But not again, that’s certain ;
For, when I left, I set it alight,
By putting a match to a curtain.
ss
ie&S'StMrcn:
se tew =*l=l4s=l*==
, ’-L=g
rr.
U4l
SF
TV
n^3
BM
Delightful hosts, the best of wine,
Food worthy of Lucullas,
But (this is where I drew the line)
They hadn’t got Abdullas!
—Fougasse.
ABDULtA superb (Tgarette S
VIRGINIA TURKISH EGYPTIAN
'SXZ
AAAAAM
AAIAA
We Invite You
to try the TACHOMETER TEST
This Tachometer
shows Graham-
Paige engine mak-
ing only 2080 revo-
lutions per minute
at 50 miles per
hour
SPEEDOMETER
MILES
PER
HOUR
C27VZ)
w
ENGINE /
\ REVOLUTIONS Ik
PER MINUTE /#
ENGINE /
REVOLUTIONS Jk
PER MINUTE AM
This Tachometer
shows average
three-speed car en«
gine making 2775
revolutions per
minute at 50 miles
per hour
SEE WHY
50 miles an hour seems like 38—
with Graham-Paige Four-Speed
Transmission.
—with the Graham'Paige
Four'Speed Transmission
Until you have experienced the quiet smoothness of the Graham-
Paige fourth speed, you have missed the peak of modern motor-car
enjoyment. A new thrill awaits you when you drive this four-speed
Graham-Paige. We have specially equipped a car with a tachometer
to enable you to see why Graham-Paige automobiles have less wear
and tear, last longer, and supply greater riding ease and comfort
than it is possible to get with an ordinary three-speed car. Graham-
Paige third, for steep hills or swift, silent acceleration in traffic, will
also be a pleasant revelation to you.
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY.
Graham-Paige Distributors. Australia and New Zealand:
QUEENSLAND .. MOXON MOTORS, LTD
NEW SOUTH WALES W. H. LOBER & CO., LTD.
VICTORIA WALTER WHITBOURN PTY., LTD.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA ..
WEST AUSTRALIA
TASMANIA
.. MAUGHAN THIEM MOTOR CO., LTD.
ARTHUR BALES, LIMITED.
.. .. TWIN-TOP MOTORS PTY., LTD.
NEW ZEALAND
WRIGHT, STEPHENSON & CO., LTD.
£AAMAM-PAl££


7hp cen/ne of Queens/oncfs
~ ' c//sLngu/sJwc/ Soc/o/ Li/e.
mote I
toRDISn
BRISBANE
ytuyu
Magnificent sai i-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disnosal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and. Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams ana Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Lines.
Near? or tkere?
In a cosmopolitan metropolis like Sydney you must be in
the very centre of the city’s social and commercial activities.
To be near is not enough—you must be there. And
this you certainly are if you accept the world-famous
hospitality of "The Australia.”
JJ
-3
Magnificently illus-
trated folder free
on request.
Telegraphic, Cable and
Wireless Address:
"Austraotel, Sydney.”
ytuyu
ytuyuytuyu
'lp THE
[AUSTRALIA
THE AUSTRALIA
Capital Paid-up, £ 422,100.
THE HOTEL OF
THE COMMONWEALTH, SYDNEY
Comfort & Service
at Low Cost
Quiet refinement, perfect service,
superior cuisine—these things make
the Grosvenor a good place to live
in—for a day or forever. 300 rooms,
100 bathrooms, spacious lounge,
yale locks on every door. Tariff,
from £3/10/-.
Finest Unlicensed.
Opp. Railway Sin. Norfh Terrace. ADELAIPI
SMOKE-OH!
A N.S.W. vocalist had a narrow escape
last week. He began to sing “Don’t Go
Down in the Mine, Daddy,” in S. Maitland!
UNUSUAL EVENT OF THE WEEK.
A U.S.A. film showed a drawing-room
containing a dead woman, surrounded by
weeping relatives. A New York detective
THE 1930 MODEL.
DEAR OLD LADY: “Excuse me, Miss, is this
the right way to the ’bus?”
HORACE: “Yes, Madam; but I’m not a Miss,
I’m a Mister!”
DEAR OLD LADY: “I’m so sorry, but you
look so like a boy I thought you were
a girl.”
was ushered in. Before examining the
corpse the detective deliberately removed his
hat.
RESURRECTION.
When Jones lost his Canberra job his wife
She'd a tear, and then, sadly said:
“Poor dear! He will now have to come to
life.
And he’s been such .a long time dead!”
X *
“Are missionaries wanted?”—Sun.
Well, few natives toast them at their ban-
quets, nowadays.
w
Judging by the N. S. Wales railway losses,
the State’s trains are being run on wrong
lines.
X- X
“Blow these Australian elections!” roared
Peter as he raged up and down in front of
the Pearly Gates. “Here’s the Recording
Angel been off work ever since they finished
with writer’s cramp!”
THE WEEK’S UNCONFIRMED RUMOR.
That the Scullin Government has abol-
ished citizen service in fulfilment of a pre-
election promise to make available to the
MISUNDERSTOOD AGAIN.
BLASE YOUNG CHAP: “Most of the women here to-night
are duds.”
UNSOPHISTICATED YOUNG THING: “Really? You must
point him out to me!”
American movie interests an unlimited supply
of soldierly-looking young ushers.
x. X.
“Timber-worker’s ordeal —caught between two
logs.” —Melbourne Hekald.
Couldn’t make up his mind whether to
work under the Federal or the State award,
apparently.
THE ARGUMENT.
“When I looked at my reasons for declining the
Melbourne archbishopric I found them excuses, not
reasons.” —Canon Head.
“I detest the sea,” groaned the Canon....
The Archbishop looked severe.
“It’s as calm as the Thames or Shannon
He said. “You’ve nothing to fear.
Besides, aren’t we Boys of the Bulldog
Breed?” ....
And the Canon reluctantly agreed.
“It’s cheaper here,” said the Canon....
The Archbishop shook his head.
“Those sordid musings on Mammon
Aren’t worthy of you,” he said.
“And you’ll earn far more in Melbourne,
you know. ...”
The Canon admitted that this was so.
“The Australian voice,” cried the Canon
“Is a thing that I can’t endure.
“And their gambling and vice,” he ran on. ...
Then his Grace staged his final lure.
“Go there,” he cried, “and you’ll turn into
ME.”
And at last the Canon the light could see.
10-2-4.
PLAYTHINGS OF BACCHUS.
The street-cleaner bent over the little
body. Dead! “If she’d listened to her mother
and not strayed,” he mused with brutal
cynicism, “she mightn’t have got into hot
water.” But the worst had happened. She
had been trapped, and then had come that
wolf in human guise, that epitome of degra-
dation, and he had bought her —bought her
body and squl. The beast!... .how he had
mawled her, slobbered over her, calling her
endearing names. And then, even as he had
implanted his beery kiss upon her brow, eyen
as her distended eyes had looked unseeing
into his....he had gone. Alas, gone, leav-
ing her forgotten in the street. Dead!
The street-cleaner bent over the little pink
body, and shovelled the abandoned and far
from fresh lobster into his cart.
ETHEL M. DALE.
AS ONE SHEIK TO ANOTHER.
You can say it with hats;
You can say it with frocks,
With well-furnished fiats
Or desirable blocks ,_
You can say it with joy,
Or with gloom due to Link;
But the Lord help you, boy,
If you say it with ink.
SYDNEY DAY BY DAY.
Evening Paper:—
The Duchesse de Cognac has arrived in
Sydney. Petite, svelte, soignde, exquisitely
Parisian, she is the idol of Royalist society
in her homeland. “I ’af come to see your
lofferly ’arbor. Yes?” Her moue was en-
chanting. Our reporter elicited that the
Duchesse, after a visit to Lord and Lady
Stonehaven at Canberra (Australians will
be interested to know that she is related to
our popular Governor-General), proposes to
settle amongst us for a time. She is anxious
to meet some of our leading citizens. “I
’af ’ear what nize boys your—’ow you say?
—squattahs are !” And she smiled roguishly.
Her dainty flatlet —No. 7 Hilarious Court,
Darlinghurst—has already gained an enviable
reputation for the refined hospitality which
is dispensed there.
Morning Paper :
Our evening contemporary has fallen in
again. The soi disant “Duchesse de Cognac”
starred last night as a visitor
to Sydney and prospective guest
of her “relative” Lord Stone-
haven, is an impostor. The real
Duchesse de Cognac is 93, and
has been bedridden at her
country chateau on Montmartre
for many years. Our informant
is none other than Sir Claude
Fitzurse, the eminent surgeon
who had the misfortune to en-
counter “the Duchesse” while he
was staying recently at the Mel-
bourne Club. Sir Claude, who
is in Sydney on a short health
trip, and who expresses un-
bounded admiration for our city
and its high standard of morn-
ing journalism, hopes that any
rich squatter who may think of
visiting No. 7 Hilarious Court
will first communicate with
him, care of this paper. The
distinguished medico is avail-
able for an interview any morning or after-
noon in the Centralia Hotel bar.
S. M. Herald (next day) :
Pearlie Smyth (or Myth), a middle-aged
woman who is said to have masqueraded as
a French duchess, was charged at the Gore-
street Police Court yesterday morning with
slashing Samuel Gunn, laborer (48), with
a razor. The affray, which occurred outside
Hilarious Court, Darlinghurst, is believed by
the police to have been the outcome of an
underworld vendetta, Smyth (or Myth)
claiming that Gunn had followed her from
Melbourne and attacked her in the press.
Gunn, over whom a charge is pending of
obtaining divers large sums of money on the
false pretence that he was one of the Royal
physicians, is still in hospital.
10-2-4.
CIRCUMSTANCES ALTER EMOTIONS.
Courtship :
Darling, you dance divinely—your sense
of rhythm is wonderful—l could glide on for
ever thus—just you and I, drifting along
to Paradise. Lord, how those chaps over
there must be envying me ! Ido hope, sweet-
heart, you’re going to let me have the five
next.
Marriage :
Of all bad dancers I imagine you’re the
world’s worst —you have a positive genius
for getting on my feet! Look at those
people laughing at us! Thank Heaven
that’s the end of it. No, I w’ill not wait
for the next. I’m going to get a drink, and
take it from me I need it!
SAP.
THE MATERIALIST.
The beach girls strut about the sand,
Their legs all bare and gleaming.
I merely yawn behind my hand;
Of other legs I’m dreaming.
The legs I love and always raid
Whenever I am able
Are well-cooked legs of lamb displayed
Upon a dining-table. .
WEEK-END WORKERS.
The well-behaved dig up the soil, or at a
job of painting toil, or build a turkey-run
w
thing’s a joke, regarded in the light of play,
this so-called pleasant holiday.
No landlord shows more grim intent in
coming round to get his rent than we on our
amusement bent. But when comes Monday
morning we with thankfulness akin to glee
back to our humdrum work repair and thank
the Lord that it is there. For how could we
the strenuous ways in which we spend our
holidays face with real joy and eager zest
but for our work-days’ healthful rest?
PERCY PAWNTICKET.
TACTICS.
“Interviewed by the press, several American prin-
cipals, now in Australia, joined in strongly con-
demning Miss Lilian Foster for having smacked
Hannen Swaffer, the London critic.”
SCENE I (A DRESSING-ROOM).
(ENTER PRESS.)
Hep. B. Slimberger (after
being shown cable) : “I can-
not adequately express my
horror of Miss Foster’s con-
duct. We New York artists
who know the great work
Mr. Swaffer is doing for our
Art, and hope ere long to
appear in London, revere
and love him. He may have
been hard on Americans at
times, but it was for our own
good. We are ashamed that
one who calls herself an
artist should have committed
this dastardly assault on so
good and great a man.
Please tell our dear Austra-
lian public (and, if possible,
have it cabled to London)
that we disown Miss Foster
and side whole-heartedly with
her illustrious victim.” (Exit
press.)
CURTAIN.
SCENE II (SAME AS
SCENE I).
Hep. B. Slimberger : “Well,
’wodderyer know about that,
folks! The baby acksherly
binged the ole thug on ’is
beezer.”
Mamie Seep (of “Seep and Sop”) : “Lilyun
sure is a white li’l’ guy. All I’m sorry for
is she didun use a shart-gun, or sumfin’, on
’im.”
Poblo Droshki (the Nordic Movie Mag-
nate) : “Thisyer Swaffer alwuz was arsenic
ter me. Manny’s the time I’der liked ter
slam ’im on ther pan meself, but a guy’d
be a chump ter get in bad with the press
boys.”
Mamie: “Tellyer what. Less send Lilyun
a cable sayin’ we’re glad she bozoed the
dirty tramp, an’ hope she’ll do it agen.”
Poblo (thoughtfully) : “Cables gets shown
about.”
Hep.: “Thasso, Pob. Tellyer what, Marne.
THE INSULT.
“Why did you leave the meeting so early? We hadn’t half-
finished the business!”
“Oh, that stupid secretary! She asked me if I would take part
in an old folk-dance. And she’s twenty-five herself if she’s
a day!”
Le’s wait till we all get home an’ giver a
buzz.”
Poblo: “Yep. That’d be kinder safer. A
guy can say things over the ’phone as it
don’t do ter write.”
Mamie (reluctantly) : “I suppose buzzin’s
better.”
Poblo: “Buzzin’ soitinly is much better,
goiiie.”
10-2-4.


-*2
'X
>) \rr
m
Z 3
m
m
0
S
m
m n
r>?'Ma(
ants t
m ■«
STI P 9 H
|UgA\
j.
iNiii
n >
KXCI
m
m
t&v,'
MJcVO OL
tinned
«&8F
um *+
*®r j\
: /..
3m
A
rf3M
WF
vt K
v tiA/
i,
tifV,
t.i-x.’if
w*
:%y<v
m
aisi s
m
iy«s wm
p mx ;
mi*, dm
kssh
mm
v.»
mm
nma
I
s®
sib*,
** > '- < ->'A-& l \{k£ gw# <•- -
A KNOTTO REMIND YOU
" NC™ FORGET
Not that you’ll necessarily need
your memory jogged in a matter
of such grave importance. But you
can’t be too careful in a crowded
life. So while you think of it
make that knot.
One glance at it, later on, will
remind you of the whisky you
have to take home. Which
whisky to take is not a knotty
problem there’s only one
answer: "J°hnnie Walker.”
Lift the tag —remove the capsule —
and a twtSl of the finger and thumb
'will give access to the spirit which
has made and kept more friends thap
any other whisky in the •world.
Born 1820-
Still going Strong
ISHf
JOHNNIE WAMtER
WHISKY
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, LONDON
and KILMARNOCK


V
%
•<* tf-ft.
* i H tr k'
■»* ."^i.. A •*vv^
.-u.
;-/x
x
w
*
$
&
/M
z
m
&
(1
TH E pleasant practice of taking
Eno’s “Fruit Salt” leads to the
enjoyment of really good health. Do
you know days when everything
seems to go wrong and you don t
feel up to the mark; work becomes
an effort; and, when playing your
favorite game you can’t do anything
right? Usually the reason is not far
to seek. The most important of
the bodily functions is working
imperfectly. Yet how easy it is to
remedy this! An invigorating glass
of Eno’s “Fruit Salt,” sparkling and
refreshing, before breakfast, will help
your body to free itself thoroughly
from waste and poisons, and put
you on the “top of yoUr form” all
day long.
Eno contains no purgative mineral
salts, so that its regular use does not
form an indispensable habit. Follow
the lead of countless healthy people
the world oyer start your day with
a glass of water sparkling with a dash
of Eno’s “Fruit Salt.”
In two sizes at Chemists and Stores
ENOS
FRUIT SALT
fcfc
trade
ft
mark
PREPARED ONLY BY J. C. ENO, LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Sales Agents: THE BRITISH HAROLD F. RITCHIE 6c CO. LTD. SYDNEY, N.S.W.,


t
r
, T*\ ,
Cruising to
JAVA and
SUMATRA
First-class round fare to Belawan
Deli (Sumatra), calling at Java ports,
Singapore and Penang: From Brisbane
and Sydney, £ 99; from Melbourne,
£lO5.
The K.P.M. invites you to wonder and wander in Java and
Sumatra, islands of exotic attractions.
Glorious days at sea, the comforts and conveniences of the
great Liners Nieuw Holland and Nieuw Zeeland will be a
delightful holiday for you.
The steamer is your hotel for the round voyage of seven weeks.
Full particulars from
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY
(K.P.M. Line),
255 George Street, Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., . 11l William Street, Melbourne; Dalgety & Co., Brisbane;
Elder, Smith & Co., Adelaide and Perth.
Pont Neglect
*° U, SKIN/
Don’t let that little pimple or rash
go untreated. Eczema, ulcers and
nasty sores all have simple beginnings.
A daily dressing with Zam-Buk will
check your skin trouble.
With its refined herbal essences
soaking thro' the pores, Zam-Buk soon
restores the tissues to a healthy state.
Skin infection cannot resist the purify-
ing influence of Zam-Buk which is at
once soothing, healing, and germicidal
You can always rely upon Zam-Buk, what-
ever your skin trouble. Use it regularly!
Muk
All chemists sell Zam-Buk at 1/6 & 3/6 box.
HEALTH
AND
HAPPINESS
are offered you in Aus-
tralia’s natural playground
and health resort —
TASMANIA
HOBART, the beautiful
capital of the Island, is the
centre of a thousand and
one charms that will hold
you spellbound with de-
light and give you health
and happiness.
There is the spell of un-
told beauty in its scenic
grandeur, and a charm of
indefinable happiness in
its peaceful life.
This joy of the Southern
Isle can be yours.
The Zealandia (6000
tons) is now running
regularly between Sydney
and Hobart.
Consult the
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU,
Ocean House, 34 Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Made by theWoilds most
expert craftsmen
Every Kropp Razor turned out at
Sheffield, England, is hand-forged from
solid bars of steel. Kropp means razor
perfection—a far keener edge than you
get with ordinary
cast steel or
machine - stamped
razors. Buy a
Kropp and enjoy
shaving comfort for
a lifetime.
KROPP'
never requires grinding
Individually tested, and fully guaranteed. Black*
Ivory or Xylonite handles. From the usual dealers.
Wholesale only: OSBORNE GARRETT & CO., LTD., London, England.
ytuyu
■HI-C;
r-v
ALL-BRITISH •
AVOID
SUBSTITUTES:
Every genuine
Kropp stamped
“ Made and
ground in
Sheffield,
England”
Pen and Picture
The
STATE
THEATRES
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Shadow Shows
British Dominions Films were unfortu-
nate in their first talkie, “Black Waters,”
which, to the distress of loyal picturegoers,
was replete with the American accent. The
fact was that in their haste to get into the
field while the going was good they sent
Herbert Wilcox to the States to produce
the film while the new spcakie studios in
England were being knocked together. Some
forthcoming pictures will be genuinely all-
British. “High Treason,” directed by
Maurice Elvey, one of the few producers
who stuck to the Cold Land when Holly-
wood commenced calling after the war, is
an intelligent attempt to prophesy what
London will be like in 1940. The picture
has been backed by the present British
Labor Government as being more powerful
than battleships as peace propaganda. Benita
Hume’s voice is a delight in it. More stereo-
typed merchandise is “The Wrecker,” a
screen version of the innocuous shocker by
Arnold Ridley. “The City of Play,” directed
by Denison Clift, has in it Pat Alierne,
brother to the elongated Brian, who acted
brilliantly here with Boucicault. A trans-
cendent titbit later to arrive will be “The
Life_ of Beethoven,” with Mark Hambourg
playing the part of lonely, majestic Ludwig,
and pressing the worries in some of the com-
poser’s opuses. Sybil Thorndike, whose mag-
nificent portrayal of Nurse Cavell in
“Dawn” was described here as the finest
performance on the silent screen that
reached Australia last year, is to be heard
in a talkie version of “To What Red Hell,”
now being prepared in an English studio.
On the recommendation of “Carrick,
A. 8.” (B. 2/10/’29), the Shadow Showman
inspected the film version of Joseph Con-
rad’s “The Rescue,” but is unable to share
his enthusiasm for its alleged fidelity to the
original. Certainly, the plot more or less
faithfully follows the prescription. But
otherwise what have we? Nothing of the
haunting, if unreal, atmosphere with which
Conrad enveloped his puppets, none of the
glamorous veil on veil in which he wrapped
their half-understood personalities. The
Lingard of Ronald Colman is merely a con-
ventional moving-picture hero nakedly pur-
suing the carnal offerings of Lily Damita,
who makes Lady Edith Travers the stereo-
typed vamp of a million stories of Holly-
wood seduction. Nor is the material detail
any more authentic. Conrad had no more
knowledge of the indigenes of Borneo than
any visiting first mate would pick up on a
couple of brief visits. But the novelist would
never have dressed a Malay sultan in the
costume affected by a Siamese ballet, or
garbed his Rajah Hassim in a bejewelled
frock-coat of obvious Indian parentage. A
really effective item is where Rajah Hassim’s
subjects convey their distaste for his alliance
with a white man by shooting arrows into
his best parlor. If they had used the
sumpitan or blowpipe to discharge their
missiles all would be in order, but they use
bows. _ The bow is unknown in Borneo.
Otherwise filmed, “The Rescue” is a vigorous
melodrama staged with the maximum amount
of expensive fixings.
The Paramount sound production, “The
Four Feathers,’’ is one of the best pictures
on a purely British theme this column has
seen. It is a film version of A. E. W. Mason’s
novel about the officer who wiped out the
disgrace of receiving four feathers for cow-
ardice by performing an equal number of
feats of indubitable bravery, conveniently
arranged by Providence to repair the damage
to his name.
But the story
doesn’t matter.
It is co m-
pletely over-
shadowed by
the amazing
animal photo-
graphy of Ern-
est Schoedsack
and Merian
Cooper, the
two camera-
men who were
responsible for
the remarkable
“Chang.” The
animals in-
clude a tribe of
fuzzy - wuzzies
at the back of
B o r tu g u ese
East Africa.
S c h o edsack-
Cooper haven’t
the same op-
portunity for
ma k i n'g a n
FAY WRAY.
artistic and logical story as they had in
“Grass” and “Chang,” because Mason’s arti-
ficial romance calls insistently for attention;
but what they have done they have done
exceedingly well. Richard Arlen is the
very serious hero who goes forth looking for
opportunities for winning the V.C. when a
less humorless person would have stayed
At home and used the feathers for stuffing a
bed. The lady is Fay Wray.
This Showman has specially watched “The
Home Towners” (First National) to see how
it would go. It is a picture which exemplifies
the pull a talkie has over the legitimate drama
and the silent film alike. It is a “100 per cent,
talkie.” It might be called a talkie-talkie,
for it has practically no action and no
scenery worth mentioning. The proceedings
take place in a private railway carriage and
a couple of hotel rooms, which are so drab
and characterless that the spectator carries
away no recollection of them. The whole
onus of getting effects and creating the neces-
sary illusion is thus placed on the players;
and their difficulties are increased by the
fact that the plot is absurdly slight. A
narrow-minded old provincial comes to New
York to see his boyhood’s friend married to
a. girl younger than himself, becomes sus-
picious of her and her family, sets every-
body by the ears for a few hours, finds he
lias made a mistake, and, by a childish trick,
engineers a reconciliation. Big audiences
are sitting through this sorry stuff at every
session. Why? Clearly because the talkie
enables a cast of specialists to be assembled,
and eliminates slack acting. Here is a
swiftly-moving show, which never lets up for
a second, and in which every performer is
letter perfect and in the right mood all the
time. You would not see such a flawless
performance once in a hundred times even
in a classic Paris theatre, where every
member of the cast is supposed to be a star.
The Palette
“F.S.”: The latest recruit is the 1930
Society. Colahan, John Farmer, Griffiths,
Jorgenson, Kimpton, Leason and Minogue
are on the committee, and the organ-
isation aims at “upholding and develop-
ing a sound tradition in local art,”
like every art society ever founded. The
members were all either participators in
the secession from the Nat. Gallery led by
Meldrum or subsequent imbibers of his prin-
ciples. Some of them are disconcertingly logi-
cal thinkers as well as competent pointers, as
Blamire Young, who signs art criticisms for
the Herald, and Stree.ton, who does the
same for the Argus, have lately discovered.
Rents and expenses for city galleries are
high and patrons are few, so F. R. Thomp-
son, a rising young Victorian painter, tried
holding a show in his home town of Mans-
field. The result was gratifying enough for
him to extend the principle, and he has since
moved on to several country centres.
A NORMAN LINDSAY SHOW.
Norman Lindsay has nothing new to say
in his show at the Fine Arts, Melbourne,
but he says the old things with his usual
amazing vigor.
Some of the big water-colors look like hasty
improvisations dashed off in a passion of
eagerness to get the idea on paper before
the inspiration fades. For Lindsay is far
less the artist concerned with the faithful
reproduction of objective truth than the in-
tellectual burning to deliver his message to
the world. He is, in fact, a Savanarola
turned upside down. Consequently, one must
not look too far beyond the idea and try
to analyse the means used. The sea m
“Ocean Dawn” is not such as would float a
vessel of ordinary weight, and the anatomy
of the figures in “The Dragon Ships” is not
above criticism; but, vastly more important,
the effect of struggle amongst the figures is
excellently conveyed, and the invention never
flags. \
The best of the water-colors are the small
ones. When Lindsay painted No. 25 he was
tickled all the time. A naked dancer whirl-
ing one way is balanced against another
whirling in the opposite direction. “Siege”
is not a conventional battlepiece: Cavaliers
just landed from a fleet which appears bliss-
fully unaware that it is on a lee shore, are
laying siege to the hearts of the feminine
defenders of a town, some of whom are mys-
teriously devoid of clothing, and others,
equally inexplicably, are naked to the waist.
Amongst the etchings “Leda” is bound to
be popular. The lady is fully clothed, and
there is still a prejudice in Melbourne against
hanging a typical Lindsay in the drawing-
room. Also the picture has admirable depth.
“Thieves’ Kitchen” is another etching full of
Rabelaisian lark. Lindsay has never grown
old. He still takes the same delight in
violent action as a child of 10. The originals
of the excellent illustrations to “The Quar-
termaster,” which first appeared in The
Bulletin, are included in the show.
The Inky Way
From a N.S.W. country town :
You Sydney people pick up your Guardian on
Monday morning -and discover that the Sunday
edition of that sheet beat the Sun to 56 country
towns the previous day, and in the afternoon the
Sun comes out with the startling story that its
Sunday issue beat the Sunday Guardian to 132
country towns, and you get stirring pictures of
motor-cars driven recklessly ovter mountain and
stream to land the precious Sun at Dog Flat ahead
of the odious Guardian ; and from the Guardian
there are moving tales of aeroplanes sweeping north,
south and west, to deliver the Sunday Smith ahead
of the odious Sabbath Jones; and it looks to us as
if all Sydney is breathlessly watching this prodigious
struggle to carry the light of the world to us
who live in heathen darkness and to deliver the goods
at the earliest possible moment.
You might therefore be interested to know what
happens at our end.
Somewhere about two or three o’clock—or it
might be four or five, I don’t know—a zip and a
roar half wakens us from our sleep, and then we
hear a flop and we half-understand that a bundle of
Sunday Smiths has been thrown to earth some-
where near the newsagent’s. Does the newsagent
spring from his bunk and fly to the place where
the flop occurred? Does he tear off the- outer
covering, and, springing into a swift motor-car,
dash to his shop and hand out Sunday Smiths
to a clamorous multitude? He does not. Instead
he grunts, turns over in his bunk and falls back
to sleep. At 2.30 or 3.30—0 r it may be 4.30 or
5.30, I don’t know—there is a rush and a rattle,
a scream of brakes, another plunk, and a parcel of
Sabbath Joneses is flung on to the street near the
newsagent’s. Does the newsagent spring from his
bunk and fly to the scene of the plunk ? Does he
rush indoors and distribute the Sunday Joneses
to a clamorous multitude? He does not. He
grunts and turns over in his bunk and falls back
into sleep. At seven o’clock he rubs his eyes, says
it’s Sunday, takes another half-hour in bed,’ then
dresses (more or less), has breakfast and strolls
down to the railway station. Picking up a parcel
or two, he has a pitch with the relieving S.M.
the only other person in the town who seenfs to be
alive, then goes back to the shop and, having
collected all his bundles, leisurely opens the Sunday
Smiths and the Sabbath Joneses, and, having slipped
a Truth (collected from the railway station) in
each, lights his pipe and waits for his customers
to call.


OWEST PRICED SIX
with all these
advantages
r,
l
.WM
•SW'
2
sJ
*
m
"Finger-Tip Control”
—A single button, in
the centre of the steer-
ing wheel, starts the
engine, operates the
lights and sounds the
horn.
'THE New Superior Whippet Six is the
only low-priced 6-cylinder car to offer
ALL these important engineering features.
Timken adjustable bearings, full-forced feed
lubrication, silent timing chain, aluminium
alloy invar-strut pistons, oversize balloon
tyres, and “finger-tip control.” These are
the features that have resulted in the fine
performing ability of the New Superior
Whippet Six. In beauty of design the
Whippet is so outstanding as to be accorded
the position of style authority in its class.
Arrange for a demonstration of the New
Superior Whippet Six at your nearest
Willys-Overland Dealer. Give the car your
most exacting test. You will find it will meet
every reasonable demand you may make.
VO/VWcMS
3HJ.
u
D
D
C
State Distributors
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LIMITED,
148-150 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
ADAMS MOTORS, LIMITED
442 Murray Street,
PERTH.
OVERLAND SOUTH AUSTRALIA
LIMITED,
62-70 Franklin Street,
ADELAIDE.
E. G. EAGER & SON, LIMITED
Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead,
BRISBANE.
OVERLAND (VIC.) PTY. LTD.
117-121 Lonsdale Street,
MELBOURNE.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO. LTD.,
53-63 Bathurst Street,
HOBART.


ACCURATE SHOOTING AT 500 YARDS.
NEW IMPROVED CADET RIFLE.
Hundreds of satisfied Shooters have used
297/230 CALIBRE CADET RIFLES.
This is an ideal sporting rifle. Fires a central fire cartridge larger than a .22 calibre, and is
accurate up to 500 yards. 24in. barrel. Under-lever Martini action, quick and certain in extrac-
tion of empty shells. Detachable lock. Elevating ladder rear sight and protected bead front
sight. Fitted complete with cleaning rod and brush 77/6
Postage 2/6 extra. '
CARTRIDGES.—Long (actual size illustrated) 7/6 per 100
_ , Short 5/- per 100
If cartridges are ordered with rifle, please state your nearest railway station, as cartridges cannot
be posted.
PTY. LTD,
mmmm
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
You must try this
LIGHT BEER
RESCH’S
PILSENER
A Drink to Delight You
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
This year’s Melbourne Cup was a wonder-
ful advertisement for Maoriland-bred horses,
owners of which divided the stake-money.
First and second prizes went to Dominion
residents. Punters who had speculated their
last available stiver on Phar Lap at evens
saw the Sydney-trained chestnut fade into
third place after he had led for nearly a
mile. Nightmarch, who drifted at the last
moment from 9 to 2 to 6 to I—one1 —one operator
actually offered sevens —scored with ease in
a race made to order for him. Paquito, in
the Limerick livery, put in a paralysing
finish and ran second. Bookmaker “Mannie”
Lyons had him going for a good many thou-
sands, and he must have been very, unlucky
in the Caulfield Cup. Roy Reed, the pilot
of Nightmarch, confounded his critics, who
had blamed him for Nightmarch’s defeat in
the Melbourne Stakes. By no stretch of
imagination could the methods of this jockey
be pronounced elegant, but he has a .knack
of rising to the occasion.
Two years ago racegoers threw hats into
the air as Bob Lewis, the Peter Pan of
lightweights, romped home on Trivalve,
Many of those who cheered then cursed
when he was beaten on Phar Lap. Next day
a sensational story spread like wildfire
through the Victorian metropolis that mortal
injury had been inflicted on the little man
by—of all people—a bank manager. This
canard wasn’t withdrawn from circulation
until Lewis resumed riding on Oaks Day.
Phar Lap lost the Melbourne Cup through
fighting for his head. Of course it might
have been possible for him to win in New-
haven fashion, but imagine what the outcry
would have been had Lewis “gone for the
doctor” and galloped his mount to a stand-
still ! Probably a pacemaker would have
made all the difference, for in his previous
races the chestnut showed that he does best
when the pace is strong from the start; but
the stable didn’t provide one, and the struggle
between horse and jockey for the first six
or seven furlongs weakened both. On the
other hand, Nightmarch doesn’t like it hot
all the way, so the slow time —3min. 26isec.
—together with the Lewis-Pliar Lap tussle,
suited Louisson’s horse down to the ground.
He is a very fine specimen of the Maoriland
thoroughbred, and as game as they make
them; but he is not quite a Windbag.
Carradale was second to Phar Lap for a
few furlongs and looked to have a chance at
the home turn, but lost it by running out
wide. His subsequent running at the meet-
ing does not suggest that he would have been
dangerous to Nightmarch.
Amounis was the real hero of the Flem-
ington round. He landed the Cantala Stakes
(with the thumping impost of 9st. 121 b.)
and two weight-for-age events like the cham-
pion he is. Neither Nightmarch nor Phar
Lap was produced after running in the Cup,
but High Syce, who vanquished Nightmarch
on Derby Day, struck his colors to Amounis
in the C. B. Fisher Plate. Bookmakers
made High Syce their opening favorite,' at
evens. He eased to 7 to 4 against, while
Amounis firmed from 6 to 4 to 10 to 9.
Carradale, the only other candidate, also
had supporters. Munro was content for
Amounis to remain from two to three lengths
behind High Syce and Carradale for nine
furlongs. Approaching the straight entrance
Duncan was observed to be hanging for dear
life on to the near rein of High Syce, who
had the outside berth. Munro failed to get
through on the rails, and ultimately went
on the whip hand of Duncan. Galloping
magnificently, Amounis scored by the sub-
stantial margin of a length and three-quar-
ters. The time (2min. 30fsec.) was only
one-fourth of a second slower than that re-
corded in the Caulfield Cup, and it now
looks as if Amounis ought to have won that
event.
Holt was compensated for the failure of
High Syce by Second Wind appropriating
the V.R.C. Handicap. Liberal odds (7 to
1) were procurable about Lee Stcere’s West-
ralian gelding. Some Quality, favorite,
finished well in second place, but Oetembcr
cut up badly. Octember had run a deceptive
third on Oaks Day..
Sydney trainers scored on Saturday with
Cathmar (Batman Stakes) and Longwood
(Flemington Stakes). Two days previously
Cathmar had gone under to Cimbrian (half-
brother to Heroic) in the Carnival Handi-
cap, but he made Holt’s odds-ou pop, Limber
Up, look cheap in the Batman Stakes. He
is a useful fellow, and all grit. The victory
of Longwood (9 to 2) was achieved with
still greater ease. Harry Telford’s Tre-
clare gelding, Reasonable, was third, Golden
Arrow (by Whittier) being runner-up to
Longwood, who is by the sire of Parkwood,
THE HEADLOCK.
WRESTLING ADDICT (as train stops with a jerk): “Pat the mat, boy. You haven't a
hope.”
last season’s champion two-year-old. Par-
sec (20 to 1) , one of Mrs. Buxton’s string,
gave the ringmen a turn-up in the Final
Handicap, for which Blather was favorite.
In Sydnev Blather used to try to make every
post a winner, but loafing has been the
trouble in his Melbourne races, though he
finishes on. .
Lineage won the Oaks like a good filly,
and evens (in a field of five) was a good
price considering her easy Maiden Plate
victory and her- second to High Syce at
v\f.a. The daughter of Spearhead—Lady
Swynford had strong support for the Wil-
liamstown Cup on Monday. She beat, every-
thing bar Cimbrian, who has come good with
a vengeance ; Taisho was third.
* ' # * *
For Caulfield on Saturday:—
Armadale Handicap: Balmerino; next,
Cimbrian.
Rosstown Plate: Brockwood; next, Tous-
saint.
* * *
Satelles, sire of Crucis and Starlike, was
represented by another winner at Moore-
field on Saturday in a likely-looking cus-
tomer named Bill Jim. Second favorite, at
threes, for the Kogarah Stakes, Bill Jim
had the race won at any stage of the 10-
furlongs journey. Well “placed,” he should
do it again presently. Otway Falkiner col-
lected a good stake in consequence of Ulah’s
success, at twos, in the Flying Handicap;
but Bartle cut things very fine at the finish,
and Gritall (12 to 1) nearly snatched vic-
tory in the last few strides. Cavedweller
(9 to 2) donkey-licked his opponents in the
Carlton Mile. He is trained at Moorefield,
belongs to part-owners of the course, and
has won eight races there.
Tindall could have collected the Moore-
field Handicap with Bavacre, who was nicely
handicapped; but he took his useful mare
up to Newcastle instead and had the- satis-
faction of seeing her get away with the
Great Northern Cup, at 7 to 2. In her
absence Franciscan (9 to 4) proved a good
thing for the Moorefield race; ridden with
judgment Nan Kourgan might have both-
ered him, but the judgment wasn’t in
evidence.
* * *
For Randwick on Saturday :
Flying Handicap: Cleave; next, Raisin.
Three-year-old Handicap : Morimond ; next,
Eton Blue.
November Handicap: Patadawn; next,
Western Lass.
ITighweight Handicap: Sion; next. Gesto.
* * *
Bernfield, the crack Brisbane three-year-
old, went out favorite for the Queensland
Cup, but was badly interfered with early
in the piece; in the circumstances he did
well to finish fourth. Star God (4 to 1),
the Sydney candidate —he is in Pat, Nailon’s
Randwick stable —also met with interfer-
ence. He looked like catching Sandlct (20
to 1), who led into the straight, over the
last furlong, but just failed; Trainer (25
to 1) was third. Sandlet is a six-year-old
bay mare by Prudent King—Sandylane rac-
ing in Mrs. Reynold’s colors. She had won
the Tottenham Handicap on the first day
of the meeting, and run third in the Too-
wong Handicap on the second day, but was
not reckoned a stayer. She ran the two
miles in 3min. 25Jsec. —1-Jsec. faster than
Nightmarch’,s time.
“Bumpk” : Some statistical fiend has esti-
mated that £10,000.000 changed hands in
Australia over the Cup, but he left out of
account the enormous fillip given to illegal
betting by wireless. As an example, even
the members of a theatrical co. in Melbourne
were not prevented from doing in their bit by
the fact that a matinee performance was on.
A stagehand with a wireless set in the wings
did brisk business with stars and ballet-girls
in between their turns.
“Mugpunter”: On Cup Day Melbourne
gaped at the spectacle of a spanking
coach and four being driven through the
streets and the pouring rain bound for
Flemington. The driver was Major a’Beckett,
who has come from Bunyip every year since
1897 for the function. The passengers were
members of the Savage Club; Melbourne’s
more or less Bohemian and artistic coterie.
* * * *
“Bumpk” : Gertie Hickey, of West Coburg,
Melbourne, a girl of nine summers, is now
the owner of a racehorse valued at 200
guineas which she acquired for the price
of an ice-cream. Gertie’s mother gave her
the money for the “sucker,” but the thor-
oughly Australian infant decided to risk
it on a ticket in a raffle for the Women’s
Hospital appeal. The result w r as as above.
e
THE FIELD CAME BACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The bookmakers lost heavily on the first day
of the V.R.C. meeting, but Cup llay and Oaks Day
put them on velvet again.”
The punters got an admirable start,
And made the pace a cracker for a spell;
The Tommy Rooks seemed to be in the cart
Arid some of them profanely muttered
“Hell!”
As burst on burst of cheering rose to tell
Another favorite had wrought their woe.
But ere the meeting finished all was well—
The field came back again to Ikey Mo.
The backers streaked away as ■ spry and
smart
As hares that in the open spaces dwell,
While many a pencillcr grew glum of heart,
And possibly a trifle lower fell
The bluff and hearty and stentorian yell
Of “Lay the Fee-uld” that so well we know.
But long before they rang the final bell
The field came back again to Ikey Mo.
With many a tidy wad he had to part—
’Twas but “So long,” however, not “Fare-
well”
(So doth the fisherman with age-old art
Throw forth the sprats that catch the
mackerel).
’Twas lent, not lost, the bunce that went
to swell
The punter’s store and set him all aglow.
No opening reverses ring the knell
Or cook the goose of gents, with odds to
sell— —
The field came back again to Ikey Mo.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


wm
mmm
wmm
-
- „JH
■
Wa
SL\
m
'"®® s ®*BhBns
* x* v.-"S'o;
«
MM
V
■‘ fc V \
f.
H
• v
:/A
£3M
iiii
:
M
mm. ■
wm
imfKm
mm^m
miMimm
l
#1
£
Wm
m
1 ■: '
r-
m
ms
.-p:
S 'he
STANDARD OF
YOUR DELIVERY
SERVICE COUNTS
Speed and efficiency, together with low
operating costs, are obviously important
factors in delivery service, but there is
one other aspect quite as important and
frequently overlooked. The appearance of
your delivery van has an important bearing
on the public opinion of your service. The
Republic Fleetmaster presents a new and
unusual appearance of beautiful yet sturdy
lines, imposing radiator, stream-lined hood
and cowl. Incorporated in the Fleetmaster
is a whole array of engineering advance-
ments and the capacity to provide
consistently profitable mileage. Consult the
nearest Republic dealer. The Fleetmaster
is of 11 tons capacity.
ytuyu
INTERSTATE AGENTS
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Larke, Hoskins & Co., Ltd.,
177-185 William Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA:
Preston Motors Pty., Ltd.,
114 Franklin Street, Melbouri
QUEENSLAND:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency,
(Q’land), Ltd.,
Creek & Adelaide Streets, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Rasch Motors, Ltd.,
69 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Republic Truck Sales Co., Ltd.,
905 Hay Street, Perth.
NEW ZEALAND:
Inglis Bros. & Co., Ltd.,
Taranaki & Cable Streets,
Wellington.
Factory Representatives: W. A. CROWLE LT D., Crowle House, York Street, Sydney.


w
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.:
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 97
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office—
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
RIN-TIN-TIN
the
famous
Screen
Actor
is fed
exclusively
on
ytuyu
Kbn-T tßation
THE DOG FOOD SUPREME
In Tins. READY TO SERVE.
A Perfectly-balanced Ration.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB, P. 0. Box 1821, Melbourne
Bert'. My dad writes trat hes
HAD THE TIME OF HIS UFB
AT THE CUP,”
<3(ERT‘/ f HOW LOVELy ! ”
Bert "yes, he was oh three
WINDERS ”
QERT : Oh you SU_uy Boy ! HES
BEkN PULUHayouR LEG, „
HE'S TOO OLD TO BE A JOCKEY.
The Ins and Outs
The inter-State match between the N.S.W.
and Queensland colts, in Sydney, brought to
the front a batsman of the old school in the
person of A. Allsop, from Leeton. The
youngster is one of those who prefer to hit
the ball rather than poke it, and was a re-
freshing sight to behold, now that Johnny
Taylor and C. G. Macartney have vanished
from big cricket. His attempt to score off
every ball, if possible, shocked the moderns,
if it delighted the ancients with memories of
Harry Graham or Jack Lyons. At the same
time he has a fine defence, and is master of
most of the strokes. His innings of 155
n.o. was no fluke, either. Against Chapman’s
team last -season he made 24 and 70 n.o.
at Goulburn for N.S.W. southern districts.
He was chiefly responsible for his side’s top-
ping of the Queensland score of
445 with 477, the game ending in a draw.
“W. G. Snort”: In one respect the
colts’ match provided the usual disap-
pointment. Half a dozen sterling young
batsmen were revealed, but not one bowler
out of the ordinary, while the fielding was
disappointing. Devil a sign has been seen of
a really claSs bowler since E. A. McDonald
swam into our ken, if one excepts
Grimmett. The sensational press has
had much to do with the situation.
The continued glorification of the bats-
man has led the younger generation to
ignore bowling and despise fielding. Metro-
politan firms with an eye to advertisement
tumble over each other to find soft jobs for
promising young batsmen. If anything of
the sort has been done, for promising young-
bowlers, the writer has yet to hear of it.
* * * . *
“Amateur Pro.”: There is a text for a
little sermon in some cricket happenings in
Sydney recently. One young gentleman who
suddenly achieved cricket fame declined all
offers of lucrative employment from city
employers, and returned to his steady job in
the country. Another, already located in
what many people would consider a com-
fortable Sydney billet, resigned it, because
his employers refused him leave to go on
tour with a cricket team. It makes me think
of an old friend, one of the most dashing-
batsmen who ever represented Australia,
which he also captained more than once.
He also was in good employment when the
cricket mania got him, and for years he
profited by playing the game. Then his
cricket powers failed him. He could not
get back to his old employment, and he
knew no other business. He led a derelict
life for a few years, and the last I heard
of him was when a mutual friend called
on me for a subscription to his funeral
expenses, the one-time idol of England and
Australia having died in absolute penury.
•J* • $ *t*
“S.T.” : Adelaide Oval is going' to enlarge
its stands again, lengthening them and
probably raising some of the roofs to allow
higher tiers of seats. The money comes
mainly from a £5OOO bequest by Harold
Fisher, the late president; but the oppor-
tunity will be taken to add an Edwin Smith
section, after a former generous supporter.
The \'other names so commemorated are
George Giffen, player; John Creswell and
Mostyn Evan, administrators.
# # i\i ❖
“J. 8.”: When a colt bowler looms up
these days, and is promoted to first-grade
cricket, some misguided ancient immediately
starts to re-model him. Gagie, the new fast-
bowler recruited by Manly (N.S.W.) from
Newcastle, is a case in point. If Gagie, by hid-
ing in the Manly scrub, manages to escape the
well-meaning fanatics, lie’ll probably earn
a certificate from batsmen that he is f.a.q.
If he is captured by one of these old-timers,
he’ll probably be spoiled, and, like Nicholls,
will fade out of the picture. An open season
for the destruction of these old nuisances by
infuriated bowlers is overdue.
:|: * * *
“Lansdowne”: Three batsmen in Gilligan’s
team occupied high places in English first-
class averages last season. Woolley was
third, with only Hobbs) and Hammond above
him, and a bigger total of runs (2804) than
either. Ilis average was 50. Duleepsinhji
was seventh, with an average of 53; and
Bowley, who played more innings (57) than
anyone in the list, tallied 43. All three
figured against the South Africans in Tests.
Turnbull, the Cambridge captain, averaged
36 and E. W. Dawson 31. Among the
tourists, Barratt, the Notts pro., was the
most outstanding bowler ; he took 129 wickets
at a cost of 21 runs apiece for the champion
county, finishing up with a slightly better
analysis than Larwood.
% * * *
“J.D.” : The great W.G. had more tricks
in his bag than the one mentioned by
“Gabba” (P>. 6/11/’29). He once invited a
batsman to glance aloft, and then clean
bowled him.
* * * *
“Aunt Sally”; Wicketkeepers, like Rugby
halves, seem to spring from the pony class.
There have been exceptions. Our own Jim
Kelly is a big' man, while England has
fielded some tall stumpers, including H.
Pliillipson, here with Grace and Stoddart,
and A. A. Lilley. Martyn, the Oxford ama-
teur, who was with Maclaren’s amateur side
a few years ago in Australia, was probably
the longest keeper this country has seen.
He had to fold himself up in sections like
a carpenter’s rule when on the job. Mordecai
Sherwin, of Notts, was also a big ’un, but
circumferentially rather than perpendicu-
larly. On the other hand, Storer, Boai d.
Strudwick, Duckworth and other English
’keepers of recent years have all been on the
small side, while Cornford, the Sussex pro-
fessional, now in Australia with A. H. H.
Gilligan, is an absolute Shetland pony.
Among Australians, Hansen Carter and W.
A. Oldfield have carried on the tradition,
and there are others.
The Watermen
“Old Q.”: The Wide Bay (Q.) Club
added another State championship to its
long list the other day when the Mary-
borough men annexed the Fours title. There
were six entries, and the winners cut out
the two-mile spin in IGmin. sSsec. The race
was rowed on the Mary River, second place
being filled by a Bundaberg four and the
third by a crew from another Maryborough
club. G.P.S., the . only Brisbane entrant,
finished down the course.
:|: * * *
“Fitzcray”: The Glebe (N.S.W.) sculler
11. E. Ricketts, who competed in the Henley-
on-Yarra sculling event without success,
had better luck in the Victorian Association
handicap race the following week. Start-
ing from scratch, he beat .1. C. Hardy, of
Footseray, in the final, conceding him one
second start and winning by half a length.
It is Ricketts’s intention to enter for the
Diamond Sculls at Henley next year. He will
be the first Australian representative to
figure in the famous event since Arthur
Baynes, of Queensland, tried his luck a few
years ago.
:!i * * *
“Blade”,: Few associate the land of
Egypt and immemorial Hind with modern
rowing, but there seems to be quite a lot of
it going on in those outlandish parts. At
a recent regatta at Port Said of pious
memory there was a great battle recorded
between the Alexandria Boat Club and the
Port Said R. C. for the Municipal Cup,
Alex, getting home by a length and a quarter.
The same mail brought details of the race
at Calcutta for the Hooghly Cup, instituted
57 years ago. An eight came all the way
from Rangoon to try to lift the pot, while
Calcutta, Bombay, Madras, Colombo and
Poona also supplied starters, Calcutta win-
ning in a desperate finish with Rangoon.
Many of the rowers were old Oxford or
Cambridge oarsmen.
Racquet and Bawl
“Top Spin”: It was announced at . the
last meeting of the Australian Tennis Coun-
cil that Maoriland and South Africa had
been discussing a tour of M.L. by an Afri-
kander side. The Australian body also agreed
to come in, and even sketched out a pros-
pective itinerary for the expected visitors.
Then it discovered that nothing had been
said about dates, not even the year having
been mentioned. A cable elicited the fact
that the M.L.-S.A. arrangement provided for
a visit in the 1930-31 summer, whereas the
Australian Rip van Winkles had been arrang-
ing to receive their guests in the season now
upon us. So like the Australian L. T. C.
“Cut Shot”: An interesting personality
in N.S.W. tennis was Gordon Wright, who
netted his final return last week in Sydney
after a long illness. He was one of tin*
older generation of Australian players, and
one of the finest doubles players the State
has produced.- He took part in seven
N.S.W. championship victories, his partner
in 1903-04-05-06 being Granville Sharp, and
in 1909-13-15 A. B. Jones. Consistency and
dependability was his long suit, but he was
also in the front rank of stroke-makers.
■\’ : i :
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Tennis scribes in
America have been occasioned much anguish
of mind because a crowd at exclusive New-
port hissed Tilden on account of some
action or other excusable in your great
artist. Tilden himself was terribly upset,
and threatened to leave the court. He
may consider himself fortunate. There is
another great branch of the showman’s pro-
fession in which not only are hisses the
portion of the performer, but often “eggs of
great antiquity,” as Banjo Paterson once
sang. However, as it is reported that. Til-
den is to shortly make his appearance on
the boards, he will no doubt find this out for
himself.
* * *
“Amateur Pro.” : If the suspicion at pre-
sent attaching to amateurism in tennis is
to be allayed, the responsible authorities will
have to suffer a change of heart. A recent
gathering of the Australian controlling body
adopted a very Laodicean attitude toward
the question. America and Britain have
banned the writing or broadcasting of tennis
stuff if the player’s name and reputation
is introduced as a special feature. There
is no such rule here. The Australian Ass.
has resolved that, though the practice was
not for the best in amateur sport if done
for a fee, it would still be tolerated. Even
more casual than that was the decision
to allow the practice of accepting trophies
for tournaments from firms selling tennis
goods to continue, though “it is strongly
felt that the refusal of such trophies is
for the good of amateur tennis.”
The Nineteenth Hole
“Hotham”: The golf habit is increasing
so fast in Victoria that, in spite of the
birth of new clubs, the established ones have
been impelled to cater for the scores of
clamoring new members who have difficulty
in finding a place to lay their approach
dead. Royal Melbourne has accordingly
acquired 78* acres adjacent to its present
course at Sandringham, and will lay down
a second 18-holer thereon. Some clubs in
Australia have launched out with additional
9-hole courses, usually for associate mem-
bers. Melbourne will be the first of its kind
in this country to duplicate its full round. In
Britain there are more than one of these
duplicated courses. Indeed, St:. Andrews
now lias four: the Old, the New, the Eden
and the Jubilee.
* * * *
“Query": If it be true that in Sydney
Sunday golf “goes merrily on from morn till
dewy eve" (B. 31/10/’29), all I can say
is that the Sydney authorities are more
enlightened than the Brighton (Vic.)
Bumbles, who have banned Sunday play on
the links under their jurisdiction. Other
municipally-owned links, including Albert
Park, Flemington Bridge and Royal Park,
are as open to the public on Sunday as on
any other day of the week.
* :fc
“The McHaggis”: There has been a lot
of controversy of late about the use of wooden
tees, the objection taken to these convenient
articles being that time is wasted looking
for them after tne drive off. That is to be
deprecated in these days of crowded courses,
and I am anxious to call attention to the
manner in which a compatriot of my own
surmounts the difficulty. Having acquired
his tee by going out early in the morning
and searching tne fairways in front of the
teeing area, he ties a string firmly to it,
attaching the other end to his left ankle.
After his drive off, he simply retrieves the
peg at the end of its string and drops it
into his left-hand trouser pocket, to be fished
ur> as required. N.B. —He is a right-hand
player. For left-handers, reverse the process.
* * * *
“Delia”: Past prowess counts for little in
golf when the numbers go up, and the cham-
pion of to-day is too often the also-ran of
to-morrow. This was evidenced the other
day when Missi Heather McCulloch, of Syd-
ney, won the Western open championship for
women at Blackheath (N.S.W.) from a
field of 100 entrants. The event called for
two rounds of stroke play, and the winner's
cards. 78 and 82, were meritorious. Among
the defeated was Miss Wray, who, after being
runner-up in the N.S.W. women’s champion-
ship and beating all comers for the Aus-
tralian title at Adelaide, had to be con-
tent with sixth place.
$ * * *
“Tenakoe” : Sloan Morpeth (B. 6/11/’29)
is probably the best amateur golfer Maori-
land has turned out, giving A. D. S. Duncan
in. He began the game 19 years ago, and three
years after won the Auckland provincial
handicap. After an interlude in France, lie
played in his first open championship in 1919,
being beaten by the professional E. S.
Douglas. Though he lost the M.L. open
this year, he collected the amateur champion-
ship, and after winning the Victorian title
was runner-up for the Australian event, won
by Ivo Wliitton at Adelaide. He is to see
the M.L. season out before coming to Aus-
tralia. A long driver and an accurate iron
player, Morpeth is deadly on the greens, tak-
ing infinite pains to study his shot.
❖
“Hoylake”: The crowds following golf
have always been a difficult problem to offi-
cials in the big British tournaments, but
nowadays a fair amount of discipline has
been established. That is not the case in
Australia, and the visit of such stars as
Hagen and Kirkwood is being looked for-
ward to with some apprehension by club
officials. The N.S.W. professional golfers
have offered to patrol the courses during the
appearance in N.S.W. of the visitors from
America, and this may help to solve the
difficulty. The chief trouble has arisen from
the high heels of flappers who gallop
madly over the greens. To that has to be
added the folk who plough through bunkers
in ignorance of the rule that the sand in
these must be smoothed over before, it is
left. It is during a big tournament that
club officials., especially the greenkfeepers,
are convinced that life is hardly worth living.
{Continued on .next pnrjc.}


0
o
BEI
*
Follow the advice of experienced motorists who
have proved B.E.S, Spark Plugs perfect under
all conditions. Equip your car and ensure
efficient ignition. Fully guaranteed. All garages.
Price 4/6.
Manufactured by
Australian Spark Plugs Pty., Ltd.
562 Spencer Street, Melbourne, C.i.
’Phones: F 4947, F 6961.
THE WATCHIIAKKR’S OWX PREFEREX«E
Every Jeweller will
you of the unquew
tionable quality
that niakeM
OMEGA a
life-time
wateh.
>IB I
c
WtßW?'
'Stesicm
EXACT
TIME FOR LIFE
ÜBtTf**
CA®®
FOR MORE
MILES
TO THE
GALLON
Wholesale Agents and Stockists:
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Car and Cycle
“Brooklands” : According to the report of
the investigators, the dried-up bed of Lake
St. George, near Goulburn (N.S.W.), is all
that was expected of it as a natural speed-
way. The floor of the lake is as level as a
billiard-table, and though topped with a
thin coating of crinkled clay is very hard.
A steam-roller used by a near-by road gang
was put on a section of the lake, and
smoothed it out to cement-like hardness.
The area tested was some 14 miles by 5, and
the only drawback was the fine dust raised
by *the speeding cars, though this can be
overcome.
H: $ $ $
“Differential”: One would have thought
that the special tyres built for use on cars
attempting the world’s speed records would
be heavily treaded and otherwise reinforced
against the tremendous strains met with.
The contrary is the case. The tyres used by
Segrave in putting up his 231.36-m.p.h. record
at Daytona had walls and tread no thicker
than sheet cardboard. The reason is that the
centrifugal force is so great when the tyre is
revolving at a great speed that heavy treads
would be flung off, with disastrous results.
* * * *
“Kick Starter”: The Motor-cycle Club of
N.S.W. is staging a six-day reliability trial
for its annual Christmastide celebration,
beginning with the departure from Sydney on
December 26. The run will follow the South
Coast and Southern Highlands route, circ-
ling back towards Sydney, which is to be
reached on December 31. Two mountain
ranges will be traversed, and on each of
these a time check is to be made, an idea
new to Australia, but always a feature of
the big British trials, including the famous
London to Land’s End event. The distance to
be covered is about 850 miles.
# * * *
“Bumpkin” : George McLeod, the Preston
(Vic.) _ pedal pusher, wasn’t expected to
maintain the terrific pace at which lie started
on liis gruelling attempt to lower the road
record from Adelaide to Melbourne, but lie
reached his destination with lOhr. 32min.
34scc. in hand. McLeod’s time was 41hr.
16min., against 51hr. 48min. 34sec. estab-
lished by Kux, a German cyclist, who trav-
elled a route that was 26 miles shorter in
1896. McLeod only availed himself or five of
the seven hours allowed for rest. Towards the
end of liis monotonous marathon devoted
friends warbled ditties in his ear, which were
alleged to have the effect of keeping him awake.
* * * *
“C.Q.” : H. B. James, A. Terdich, T. Rand
and W. J. Proctor, four of the committee
which controlled the recent Warrnambool-
Melbourne road race, can claim a unique
record between them. They have collectively
driven motor-cars over a million miles in
Australia and have never had a serious
accident. Three of them commenced motor-
ing in 1899, and their years at the game
total 107.
=!=***
“Sprocket Old-time cycling memories
were revived when it was announced the other
day that “Plugger Bill” Martin, the famous
American push-bike exponent of the 1890’s,
had cast up in Melbourne from America,
whither he returned when the cycling boom
of those days began to wane. A short, very
powerful man, Martin rode with a tremen-
dous gear, shoving his machine along by
sheer strength, as it seemed. He was very
successful in Australia.
* Hi * *
“Cash Amateur”: Falck-Hansen, the
Danish cyclist, now showing in Sydney, is
one. of the many who, after a brilliant
beginning in the amateur ranks, turned
professional. He was Danish representative
in the Olympic cycling time trial, in which
Australian Duncan Gray also figured, while
later he met and defeated Jack Standen in
a world’s championship. Standen must
regard his old acquaintance rather ruefully.
Whereas Hansen incurred no penalty by turn-
ing professional, Standen, who was under
bond to the Australian Olympic authorities,
suffered two years’ suspension from profes-
sional as well as amateur cycling for break-
ing his contract not to take up the cash
game for a fixed period.
Miscellaneous
“Hoist”: Yachting is a costly sport, and
this lias been emphasised in the case of
Rawhiti, for years Sydney’s champion among
the big ones. Last season it was decided
to equip her with the Bermuda -rig, and
a pole mast of 70 feet was ordered from
Norway at a cost of £2OO. In her first
spin in the new rig on Sydney Harbor she
was going about when her forestay fouled
the boom of a competitor, the new mast car-
rying away some feet above the upper cross-
trees. It is practically impossible to repair
the pole, which is hollow, though an attempt
is to be made pending the arrival of another
from the top of the world.
* * * *
“Kelson” : The yacht now being built by
Sir Thomas Lipton to have another shy (the
14th by British boats since 1851) at regain-
ing the America iCup is to carry the now
all-fashionable Bermuda rig, instead of the
old-style gaff, mainsail and jack yarder.
She will be 76ft. over-all. The handicap is
that she must cross the Atlantic on her own
bottom, and then meet a craft specially built
for landlocked water conditions.
* * * Hs
“Dedans”: Tennis proper, or, as it is
called nowadays, “royal tennis,” has even
better claims to style itself the royal and
antient game than has golf, however furi-
ously the. Scots may rage at the contention.
There are only two of the expensive enclosed
courts in Australia, at Melbourne and
Hobart. As 1 a result, the annual champion-
ships, always played about Melbourne Cup
time, are confined to players from these two
cities. Last week, in the professional cham-
pionship, the holder, W. Stone, of Victoria,
lost his title to Tasmanian P. Finch, who
won in three straight sets. The winner has
scored on previous occasions.
:!: * * *
“Shinty”: This year’s Australian hockey
side in Maoriland did so well that the Aus-
tralian body is getting chesty, and looking
for fresh worlds to overcome. Arguing
that the Indian Army team are world’s cham-
pions, that M.L. beat them, and that Aus-
tralia beat M.L., it has resolved to issue
a defi to the universe, beginning with
the Indians. It is hoped to get the Maori-
landers to join in the invitation, the visitors
touring both countries, with a series of Test
matches in each. The visit of the Indians
in 1926 was an eyeopener as to the pos-
sibilities of a fine sport, and has proved a
great stimulant to the game in the Dominion
and Australia.
* * * *
“Shin-Guard”: The ancient difference be-
tween the town and country mouse has
cropped up in the N.S.W. Hockey Associa-
tion. In announcing a plan of reorganisa-
tion the executive unkindly notes that most
of the cash for tours and other activities has
been found by metropolitan players, the
country cousins assuming an aloof attitude
when the plate is passed round. It is pro-
posed to separate the metropolitan and State
bodies, and to regard all country clubs in
future as full members of the State organ-
isation, liable to contribute in proportion to
membership. Next season an extra-large hat
is to be sent round to finance proposed visits
from overseas teams. It is hoped that the
lads and lasses from the wide-open spaces
will face the situation with wide-open
pockets.
* . * * *
“Yolande Yarra”: A frightfully thrilling
event was switched on in Melbourne when
teams from N.S.W. and Victoria engaged in
the first inter-State women’s bowling match
on record. Some of our girls, especially
the older set, were a bit apprehensive after
all they had heard about Sydneysiders, but
their suggestion that a couple of mounted
police be engaged in case of emergencies, as
at the football matches, was not adopted.
None of the visitors produced a razor or
anything like that, and their frocking was
not nearly so daring as we had been led to
ROY REED, rider of Nightmarch, winner
of the Melbourne Cup. Both horse and
jockey are Maorilanders.
expect. They all insisted on drinking tea,
too, though we had specially provided a
large tray of cocktails. However, these
weren’t wasted—the gentlemen attended to
that. We had a perfectly ducky time. Oh
yes (I nearly forgot), Victoria won, but I
can’t remember the scores. I never can,
even at bridge.
* * * *
“Backwoodsman”: There is likely to be
a big rush of Australian bowlers to the
Maoriland annual championships, which
open in Dunedin in January. These events
are great favorites with Australian bowlers,
even if the quality of the M.L. players on
their native heath is always much more in
evidence than it is under Australian condi-
tions. There is an added attraction in the
fact that Dunedin is to be the venue. The
beer brewed in that precipitous corner of
a foreign field that is for ever Scotland is
notoriously of a quality to gladden the heart
of the most sophisticated bowler.
“Tenakoe”: Australian friends will note
with interest that “Moke” Beilis has retired
from active football in Maoriland. The big
wing-forward first came into prominence
with the M.L. Army team, and after playing
in Britain and South Africa wore the All
Black jersey from 1920-22 inclusive against
the Springboks and N.S.W. He it was who
skippered the All Black team in Sydney in
1922, when the N.S.W. side won the rub-
ber for the first time in the history of the
inter-Dominion clashes, by 2 games to 1.
A lot of Maorilanders talked of having Beilis
impeached at the time for lese-majeste, or
something, but they have become more
chastened of late yearA
K. S. DULEEPSINHJI, the brilliant Indian
batsman, who is regarded as the star of
the Marylebone C.C. XI now in Aus-
tralia.
“Stand Off” : Both the Rugby Union and
League in N.'S.W. have been busy of late
in setting their respective houses in order.
The Union has made sweeping changes in
the constitution, especially in the direction
of cutting down the numbers of the un-
wieldy management committee and the coun-
cil, while such honorary officials as vice-
presidents are to disappear from these
executive bodies. Generally the changes are
aimed at giving the actual players more say
in the conduct of the Union, and in all
respects they are to be commended. The
League, taking notice of the dissatisfaction
among country organisations last season,
has also introduced reforms, chief of which
is the division of the State into four foot-
ball districts, with Newcastle and the Met-
ropolis as separate sections. Each division
will be represented on the League executive
committee, a privilege long desired.
i’S
“Hotham”: The attempt to reintroduce the
old “flick-pass” rule to Australian League
football was passed out at the recent meet-
ing of the Australian Council. Westralia
and Tassy opposed the change, and, as a
three-fourths’ majority was required, the
support of the other States went for nought.
# * *
“Swan” : The Westralian Centenary track
and field championships, at Subiaco, saw
several State records go by the board. Eng-
lish set up new figures in the 220 with
22 l-ssec., which equals Jim Carlton’s
figures for the spin in the last Australasian
championship at Wellington (M.L.). Byrne
ran the mile in 4min. 46 4-ssec., knocking
a couple of seconds off his previous record,
and new figures were put up in the pole
vault, hop-step and shot-put.
* * * *
“Spike” : American Elizabeth Ryan is not
the only athlete without a country (B.
23/10/’29). “Tickle” Whyte, the Victorian
and Olympic ped. is in the same fix. Some
time ago he went •to Sydney to reside, and
later returned to Melbourne. Now he wants
to compete for Victoria again in the Aus-
tralian championships in January. The
Amateur Athletic Union has ruled that he
is not eligible to run for Victoria because
he has not the residential qualification,
and that he is equally ineligible to appear
for N.S.W. for the same reason. The
peds. should take a leaf out of the tennis-
players’ book. With them a player, provided
he is a good draw, can play alternately for
different States, even in the one season, as
one very notable instance goes to show.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Vila”: An interesting item on the Sydney
wool sales lists was a consignment from
Erromanga, New Hebrides, where an ex-
Queenslander has been running a flock
for some years. In Erromanga probably
more missionaries have been eaten to the
square mile than anywhere else on earth.
All that is changed; the heathen who once
came to kai-kai the white intruder now
remains to shepherd and to shear for him.
* * * *
“Ratoon”: As illustrating the disastrous
effects of the tropics on the white man’s
constitution, a Mackay (N.Q.) man named
Farringham—locally born and bred —has cut
and loaded 11 tons 13cwt. of cane into seven
trucks in five hours. The enervated Nordic
offers to back himself to cut 17 tons in eight
hours.
* * * *
“Umfaan”: Australia imports bags and
sacks from India to the value of four or five
millions p.a. Jute-mill companies pay big
dividends ; 40 p.c. and 50 p.c. divs. are common,
and 200 p.c. is on record, Why shouldn’t
our farmers and graziers combine to pur-
chase a jute mill on their own account? The
output would be assured of a market, and
even if the profits were a mere 20 p.c. the
proposition would be sound. Asiatic tin-
mines can be directed successfully from Aus-
tralia, and so could an Asiatic jute mill.
sjc H* Jfc *
“Cet.”: Maoriland is making a bid for a
fraction of the profits netted by whalers in
its section of the Antarctic waters. _ New
regulations provide for licenses, with a
fine of £lOOO for every day on which whaling
is conducted without one. A British eo. and
one of the Norwegian concerns have taken
out tickets; two others are operating with-
out them, and since they are both foreign-
owned, it will be interesting to see what the
M.L. Government can do. Recalcitrants
may be denied the hospitality of M.L. ports,
but there are other convenient spots.
* * * *
“Rcdtape”: The Sydney G.P.O. wears
such a congested appearance on the outside
at mail-closing time on certain days of the
week that one wonders what sort of high pres-
sure the sorters must be working at inside.
A few years ago there were boxes for every
State to which mail was addressed, and also for
several distinct oversea destinations. Then sud-
denly, for no apparent reason, these smaller
distinctions were swept away; letters and
packets for outside N. S. Wales now go
into huge receptacles marked inside and out-
side the Commonwealth respectively. Surely
the volume of work within must have been
less when the public was required to do
some sorting on its own account before mis-
sives were posted.
* * * *
“Retro”: Brisbane City Council is propos-
ing to re-introduce one-man trams. In the
days of the horse-drawn caravans this style
was in fashion. Behind the driver was a
glass box with a slot at the top and a sort
of jig arrangement, which kept your fare
in full view for some time after insertion
of the coin in the slot. The driver gave
change, and his “putcherfareintherbox”!
was a commonplace of Brisbane existence in
those days.
* # * *
“Chev”: The figures of Uncle Sam’s ex-
penditure on automobilism are even more
amazing than those relating to his golf (B.
30/10/’29). Repair and service stations in
the U.S.A. number 94,767, there are 50,114
garages, and employees in garages and re-
pair shops total 953,000. The bill for tyre
replacements is £168.000,000 annually, and
for accessories £101,400,000; the year’s total
maintenance runs away with £1,446,000,000.
What it costs to keep the pedestrians in
reasonable order and repair hasn’t yet been
calculated.
Hs * * *
“Western, Lands” : A swindle which infuri-
ates people guilty of living outside the metro-
politan area is the imposition of exchange
on cheques for taxes. It is not so _ much
the amount of money concerned as the injury
to one’s sense of justice that makes the bile
rise. I have just got a notice for N.S.W.
Child Endowment tax with an intimation
that exchange is to be added to country
cheques. It is the same with the income-tax.
4c
“S. Mai” : Two N.S.W. branch managers be-
longing to the same big institution were
recently convicted of embezzlement, and in
the process a curious point of insurance was
involved. As a high official explained it: —
The banks collect yearly payments from officers,
and allocate the money to a sinking fund to offset
defalcations. The premiums are held by the bank,
even when an officer resigns, following the rule of
insurance, where there is no refund to a fire policy-
holder if he has no fire. There is no refund to a
man insured against dishonesty because he stays
honest.
Moreover, the amount a man has in the
fund isn’t regarded as a set-off if he goes
off the straight. Further, if the fund
swells to needless proportions through in-
sufficient embezzlement, a question may arise
whether it is strictly correct for the bank to
hang on to the surplus, as it apparently does.


double
geared
ytuyu
COMPLETELY
ENCASED
Tshe
Billabong
Windmill
Self Oiling
Rainproof
Dustproof
And IT carries
Our Guarantee
The Encased-Gear Billabong is most modern. Its design is the outcome of
many years’ manufacturing experiences in Windmill construction. It is the one
Serviceable Windmill for the Australian Farmer. Working parts are fully protected
from all weather influences, and all Gears run in an Oil Bath. It is silent and
easy running, and with its perfect lubrication this wonderful \\ indmill will give
Many Extra Years of Service.
Our Windmill Catalogue illustrates and describes “Billabong,’ “Busy B anu
“Little Bill" Windmills. It is post free on request.
Billabong Steel Troughing
Billabong All Steel Troughing is well known for
its great strength and durability. It is set in two
or more heavy angle and T-Steel Frames, which
form a most rigid bed. Thus Billabong Troughing
withstands rough usage and gives longer service.
This Troughing is easily assembled, and is made in
styles to suit cattle, calves and sheep; also a very
heavy type is made for pigs.
&
«k
3S
1&&&A
/Semi! /or Windmill Catalogue and Troughing Folder.
aniimtiiiMinii
mim
I JOHN
&SONI
niuiimiiiimiim
HimuimimiimS
: I^2.
pry-
-391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
m
*
V.
m
The New
Super- £xi6e Battery
FVERY motorist should see the new Super-Exide
Battery at once. He should have explained to him
the remarkable efficiency and economy of the
DOUBLE SEPARATORS—the principle that has
advanced battery construction another tremendous stride.
He should inquire, also, about the Plates, the Steel \N ire
Handle, the Sealing Nut, the Filling Plug, the Hard
Rubber Case, tested to withstand 20,000 volts, the Extra
Heavy Duty Connectors, and the Individual Cell Covers.
.4 s7c your Service Station for
important New Exide Prices.
Zxtbc
for Car Starting
and Lighting
f The Long Life Battery’
Advertisement of E. H. Sliarpe, reptg. Exide Batteries, lie Castlereagh St,, Sydney
THE SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER
:
QUICK HARVESTING cuts down
the period of crop insurance;
reduces loss of grain from shed-
ding; makes the harvest season
short, sharp, and therefore moie
economical.
e
12ft. CUT. SELF-PROPELLED
HARVESTS FORTY ACRES OF CROP
IN A DAY.
CONSUMES ONLY HALF A GALLON
OF PETROL TO THE ACRE.
mMjSnMA
m
U
Ussi
ffiSs
v-
IfUlinS
HgjMWjga
msiiiiig
&SS3MHffitnK
L'.
m
STORM FLATTENED AND TANGLED
CROPS ARE SUCCESSFULLY
HARVESTED BY THE
SUNSHINE AUTO HEADER.
ALSO CROPS INFESTED WITH THISTLES.
NO OTHER MACHINE CAN EQUAL
ITS PERFORMANCE.
.
if
HSi
:4f:'
z,
.
.- ** , «
mm
• 'i
TWO MEN ONLY REQUIRED
on the Auto Header—one to
drive and one to tend the
bagging. Labor is the most
expensive item in harvest costs.
This machine reduces it to a
minimum.
.
SOLE MANUFACTURERS:
H. V. McKAY PTY., LTD.
SUNSHINE HARVESTER WORKS, SUNSHINE, AUSTRALIA.
BRANCHES:
G 64 Bourke Street West, Melbourne. 27-39 George Street West, Sydney.
95-97 North Terrace, Adelaide. Cr. Murray and King Streets, Perth.
QUEENSLAND DISTRIBUTORS:
H. V. McKAY (Queensland), Ltd., Stanley Street, South Brisbane.
Catalogue, Price and Terms posted free on request.


w
W HEN first created
hosiery, their ideal was to
produce stockings which, in
quality and value, would be with-
out parallel in Australia.
ijprpjStU}? hosiery is manufactured
with that ideal constantly in
mind. Small wonder, then, that
should be to-day the
one hosiery which is demanded
by the most fastidious of Aus-
tralia’s leaders of feminine fashion.
That this ideal has been achieved
is proved beyond all doubt by
the ever-increasing demand for
IJrPßttgP productions.
Even with the tremendous
resources behind this progressive
Produced in a host of
lovely tonings.
Full-
Fashioned Hose, Ser-
vice Weight, Pure
Silk from top to toe.
18/11
per pair.
IJrratiSr Fu ii-
Fashioned, Service
Weight Pure Silk
Hose, with super-
mercerised top, heel
and toe.
14/11
per pair.
organisation there is the utmost
difficulty in meeting the demand
for Hosiery.
Compare an ordinary stocking
with a 33n > ottgP creation; note the
soft, even fineness of the Is¥VBt\Q£
product, its fulness, strength and
lovely tonings. You will find
that stockings wear and
wash continuously, and still retain
their beauty. In wear this fine
hosiery gives you that sense of
perfect tailoring, and you realise
how “different” the
creation actually is.
Truly has now become
the standard of comparison with
discriminating buyers of quality
hosiery.
FULL FASHIONED HOSIERY
m
0
JXD
V'g. sy
y
Ci
w.
\'¥M2T£
cija.
Ys
gj


52 Macleay St
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT, SYDNEY
{Located within the City Boundary, ten
minutes from G.V.0.) ■
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 160 rooms, is now open, and
features Single . Rooms, Double
Rooms with Bath, and two-, three-
and four-room Suites with Bath.
Central Heating, Hot and Cold
Water, 'Phone and Bedside Lamp
in each room. Unsurpassed
Harbor views.
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines).
Telegraphic Address: “Fifmac,”
Sydney.
Welcome and Comfort Always
Await Travellers
Seasoned world travellers, experienced in the art of finding hotel
comfort in whatever place they pause for the moment, unerringly
select the Wentworth as their temporary home while in Sydney.
The reason is obvious.
The Wentworth is abreast of the times in modern conveniences
and comfort, and is personally conducted by Mrs. Maclurcan,
whose reputation as a hotel director and restaurateur is world wide.
Qhe, 'Wentworth
Church Hill,
Sydney.
tv v ;
/□
Under 5
Royal
~Warrant
ytuyu
ToH.NL
Kin*
GeorgeV
Vintage 1920.
CH AIVIPAGIME
Australasian Agrenta—
Swift & Company Umitatl
SYDNEY.
CHAMPAGNE
'-bailesHcidsiecs
Reims
«»N»
PELLISSOIM
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Averts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
SHEER
CHIFFON
SILK
STOCKING
By sunrise on Armistice Day the Ceno-
taph had been beautified by generous tri-
bute of rose and lily and laurel. A wreath
of fleckless roses, evidently laid at the base
during the night, held trembling dewdrops
on each snow-white petal. A great anchor
glittered scarlet and bronze below the statue
of the sailor at the end of the Cenotaph
facing George-street. While yet the city
was without shadow, and each building stood
out sharply defined in the level light, a sheaf
of gold and blue flowers from the Anzac
Fellowship of Women added its fragrant
message of remembrance.
For the space of the short service, the sun
shone hot, and Martin-place was like a
censor streaming with incense. The thin
lines .of khaki and blue stood to attention,
white lielmeted policemen patrolled the bar-
riers to keep back the sea of humans swol-
len by streams from George-street, from Pitt
and from Castloreagh. Flags drooped, then
stirred a little. Was it a breeze or a sigh?
Suddenly, almost like a whip-crack the noise
of the city cut the stillness —the circus of
life was on again, and ringmaster Everyday
was in charge.
Even while The Bulletin is topping up
with its weekly pink ice, the State’s V.C.’s
are having a whale of a time at Government
House. At latest inquiries the bill of fare
sounded not only palatable but succulent,
and the pudding had taken the shape (or
as near to it as possible) of a Victoria
Cross; at all events the chef had sent a
communique to his Ex. demanding a dia-
gram of same. Flowers from the old home
garden scented the board, and cocktails
arrived with the handshakes. After the
meal a smoke and a yarn on the verandahs
were in the programme. Everything was in-
formal and friendly; but, being given at
Government House, only one toast could be
drained—“ The King!”
Tasmania’s Governor O’Grady, remember-
ing this, said “Very well, I’ll give my party
at a hotel, because I must drink to the
health of each V.C., too.” But, then, there
are only a handful for the O’Grady to host
—and toast. Even a man fresh in from
the. drought that hangs heavy at the back
o’ Bourke might baulk at drinking the health
of 24 heroes.
Why wasn’t there a .sub-committee of
women to look after the arrangements for
the. visiting V.C.’s? One poor fellow who
arrived from the country on Friday was
given 30s. and left to amuse himself. The
30s. quickly melted, and when nightfall came
he got to a ’phone and rang up Government
House to ask his way there. He thought
that was where he laid him down to sleep
—at. any rate, that there he would get his
sleeping orders. His money was gone, and
lie wanted n bed. At last he got -linked up
with a friendly police station, and that was
that. If there had been a woman on the
advisory board the programme wouldn’t have
been so elastic.
Last Friday in Sydney red poppies raked
many a memory that we thought we had
buried under the tears and laughter of the
passing years. They bloomed on train, tram
and ferry, on hawkers’ trucks and arrogant
motor-cars. Men- wore them, women tucked
them against a fur or a foamy jabot; women
and girls sold them, the women mostly
mothers or wives of soldiers, many of the
girls young enough to have been babies in
arms when the war began. The indomitable
Mrs.. Hammett and her workers at the stand
outside the Australia sold over £39 worth
of the flowers in two hours; a big induce-
ment to buy here was the presence of Ser-
geant Evans, V.C., who autographed the
tab. of each poppy. Leo Carillo auctioned
posies at Her Majesty’s, and a wreath of
poppies blazed against the Cenotaph—placed
there by a contingent of Maoriland scouts
before their boat left for Wellington.
Unhappy the woman who finds her ward-
robe half filled with the glories of last
summer, for this Letter is told that the line,
though. at first glance the same, is really
quite different. The flare and the hem are
straighten, in spite of the general effect of
width . and lavishness that comes through
our skirts being flounced and our sleeves bal-
looned. Chiffon velvets persist for evenings,
though flower patterns are never seen abroad
in the smartest London night get-togethers.
Crepella for day wear is to be a first favor-
ite. and mulberry the shade of the moment,
if you are not a devotee of white.
There’s a definite return to the natural
waist-line in both sports clothes and the
tailor-made, and cloth topcoats simply must
be fitted to the waist and hips. Collars of
fur coats are high and cut on Medici lines,
and cover not only the back of the neck
but the whole of the back of the head. The
new velvets are as thin as satin in texture,
and the satins are about the weight of the
thinnest and most transparent chiffons. An
evening coat made by Reville for a noted
London actress is in rich white and silver
brocade, very glittering, is three-quarter
length, the back sloping gently from the
knee-deep front breadth, and is flounced with
a deep width of white fox. The same fur
is used for the vast collar that stands up like
a moulded snowdrift around the head. The
sleeves are wide and untrimmed. White for
evening wear is becoming almost a uniform,
and there’s a white satin shot with pink
which seems a special favorite —even the
over-the-fiftics have adopted the virginal
shade. The princess line is the most favored
after-fl-p.m. fashion, and while this demands
a rounded figure it means a sharper lookout
than ever for dangerous curves.
White velvet evening coats are a mild
rage. An attractive one brought from New
York last week has a tall collar of Arctic-
fox, and slim untrimmed sleeves fashioned
mannishly with cuff-links of crystal.
Mrs. Bavin and daughter Shirley arrived
home at Rothesay, Cranbrook-road, last week,
and settled down to domesticity ; whereupon
father shook off the hayseeds that had accu-
mulated through his term of grass widower-
hood. Shirley, incidentally, admitted to one
of the dailies that her engagement to John
Bettington, brother of the cricketer, no longer
existed; but, though she said she was not
ready to make a formal announcement to
that effect, her words were printed in that
same day’s paper. Mrs. Bavin was still more
or less under the weather on her arrival,
having been ill in London two or three
weeks before sailing by the Orford. -The
wives of Minister and members rallied to
the old Macqu ari e-street stronghold and
hoik'd the billy of welcome to the lady and
her daughter.
The .beastly little germ has been shame-
fully ill-treating the S heifer family of
Mosman. At Christmas the only daughter
of the house went, off with her husband,
Dr. Evatt, to fill in the law vacation with a
northern motor tour. A ’flu germ got hold
of her on the way, and she was so dan-
gerously ill at Toowoomba that berths by the
Aorangi had to be cancelled to allow mother
to follow a nurse who literally flew to the
patient. Mrs. Evatt recovered, mother and
father booked by the Niagara, and they were
on the way home via Japan when a viru-
lent malarial germ attacked them. They
both fell sick just after passing Thursday
Island, and their state was so serious when
thev reached Brisbane that they were taken
to hospital. Four days later Mr. Sheffer
died; Mrs. Sheffer, after promising a quick
recovery, is now again in a serious condi-
tion. They had booked to leave for England
early in 1930; the bookings have, of course,
been cancelled.
This is a Daync study of Mrs. Milner
Stephen, wife of Justice Stephen and presi-
dent of the
c o m m i t tee
arranging the
c h i 1 d r o n’s
Christ mas
party on the
s.s. Nellore.
This is dated
for December
12, and is one
of the monev-
raisers for the
Adult Deaf
and Dumb
Society. Mrs.
Milner Ste-
phen has been
for many years
a vice-presi-
dent of the
society, and
is an ardent
worker for the
benefit of our
voiceless bro-
thers and sisters. The flower-farm scheme
has her particular interest. The need of
some handy place where unemployed deaf
mutes can always find work, and to
which their aged and infirm can turn in
their twilight years, is an urgent one, and
a flower farm near the city will, it is be-
lieved, be the solution of this problem. The
subject of this picture and her husband are
enthusiastic Gilbert and Sullivan supporters.
Gardening is another family vice.
Ethel Shapd is pluckily taking charge of
the arrangements for the children’s party
to be held on the Nieuw Zqeland on Decem-
ber 20. Her mother, Mrs. A. B. Shand,
who collapsed and died so suddenly a few
weeks ago, had been at the helm, and the
committee is delighted that the daughter
will complete the plans made by the mother.
The rfistriet Nursing Association benefits.
To have grown up from childhood in the
home of her uncle John Yeats, father of
the poet W, B. Yeats, and to have lived
through the ambitions, the set-backs and
the successes of that artistic family; to have
known the ex-
citement fol-
lowing on that
first visit of
Q u inn, th e
famous Ameri-
can lawyer and
collector, to
Jack Yeats’s
studio, where
he bought so
many of that
young man's
pictures that
Jack began to
be afraid he
h a d quoted
him shillings
instead of
guineas; to
have see n
Susa n Mit-
chell, golden-
haired a n d
milk-white of
skin when as a girl she came to stay with
the Yeats family while John Yeats the
father painted her —the memories of such
experiences bring a sparkle to the blue eye
of Mrs. Charles Lane-Poole, the lady in
the picture above. Susan Mitchell, dead
these two years, and the great “A.E.”
formed a friendship on sight that lasted
to the end of Susan’s life—it was the perfect
argument in favor of platonic friendship.
Hear how Quinn found James Stephens
working as a clerk in a shipping merchant’s.
Quinn said: “How much do they pay you
for your clerking?” “Thirty shillings a
week,” replied the poet. “Well,” said Quinn,
“I’ll give you thirty shillings a week to
stay away from it, and you can write
poetry for me and the world.”
Mrs. Lane-Poole has been staying in Syd-
ney to be near her small daughter, who is ill
in'St. Luke’s; during her stay she has been
the guest of Mrs. William Macleod. Her
home is in Canberra —her husband is the
Federal Government’s forestry expert. To
her lot fell the buying of the china, the
carpets, crystal and plate for the much-
discussed Priminis tor’s residence, and for
Yarralumla, in preparation for the visit of
the Duke and Duchess. Her passion is
gardening, and she owes this season’s best
liat to a bet that she could not raise a per-
fect cauliflower, free of blemish and pest.
She prayed and sprayed and in due time
carried the magnificent cauliflower on a
silver platter to her husband; and a hat
from one of Melbourne’s most expensive
shops was the outcome. It’s a very nice
hat. It is green and white like a cauli-
flower. May Moore made the picture.
The Sydney that stayed in town last
week-end offered congratulations to the
Kater-Tooth and Sheller-Wilkinson adven-
tures. In many cases families were split,
parents being at one wedding while son or
daughter made merry at the other. Both
were Saturday-afternoon affairs, both brides
were Mary, and St. James’s and All Saints',
Woollahra, supplied the lines.
Mary Kater, daughter of the Norman
Katers, of Moss Vale and Point Piper, sus-
tained matrimony according to St. James,
and by half-past two the upper end of King-
street was animated with the usual groups
of lookers-on determined to . have a good
view of the bride. For once they got full
value for their wait. The bride’s frock
shone like minted gold—was, in fact, gold
satin so woven with metallic thread that it
looked like all the Commonwealth’s gold
reserves melted down. Her veil, which was
worn over the face, just falling below the
chin, was of gold tulle. Soft and voluminous,
it trailed a cloud of sunset glory after her.
Norman Kater, a* very handsome father,
steered his daughter up the aisle through
a choral sea, and duly handed her over to
bridegroom Douglas Tooth, third son of the
late Arthur Tooth, of Pokataroo (N.S.W.).
The wedding garment, one. of the richest
seen in Sydney this year, was made on the
new-old Princess lines, and had a long skirt
touching the ground all round. It had long,
tight-fitting sleeves and a yoke of double
gold tulle embroidered in gold thread and
amber crystal. The waist was finished with
a soft bow, whose two ends fell to the
ground in a sort of split gold-fish tail effect.
Gold roses and golden orchids were the floral
embellishments. Bride's sister Mrs. Randal
Munro and Betty Lloyd Jones stepped in the
procession, brave in apple-green net frocks
made with the long semi-fitting bodice and
long uneven-length skirts. They wore apple-
green Baku hats with long backs and carried
green baskets brimming with lily of the
valley. Dunara, the Katers’ Point Piper
home, had to run up a marquee on the lawn
to house the guests, the presents and the
cake. Bride’s mother played her part in a
beige ensemble shaded by a wide black hat.
the whole served with a desirable posy of
green orchids and yellow roses.
Just as Padre Perkins was polishing off
the Tooths,' Canon Langley was getting into
his surplice to make a pair of Mary Sydney
Camae Wilkinson, daughter of Dr. Camac
Wilkinson, formerly of Sydney, but for-
mally years past a leading London authority
on t.b., and Horace. Sheller. There was
almost a debonair air about this giving
and taking, partly due to the red button-
holes worn by the juvenile load and the
male chorus. There's something a bit
Rudolph Valentino-isli, too, about brother
E. C. Sheller, who was best man. Anyway,
to All Saints’ came the bride, her vellum
satin frock, following mediaeval lines, snug-
gling to the small figure, her hair parted in
the middle and covered with a tulle veil
that cascaded out into a train and was
tangled about its edges with orange buds.
Her arms were filled with red roses caught
together with a wide red velvet ribbon. A
small girl, innocence in a blue sash, fol-
lowed the train, and Captain A. C. Wilkin-
son, of the Coldstream Guards, armed his
sister into position. He and his wife, the
Honorable Mrs. A. C. Wilkinson (she is a
daughter of Baron de F'rene), did the
honors at the inevitable toast-drinking, which
was held at the Prince Alfred Yacht Club
instead of at the Bovill home, the small girl
of that household being ill. The hostess
wore red carnations and red-flowered chif-
fons with a soft yellow hat. Mrs. E. C.
Sheller (up till a few weeks ago Leslie
Walford’s widow) was skyey blue as to hat
and frock.
No wonder Sydney is suffering a cold, wet
spell, The blessed climate is being sapped
and the summer inundated by these Cold-
stream Guards. Jack Heney. son of the
Herald’s old chief, one of the fellowship
himself, lured another of the same persuasion
last week to act as his best man. Lord
Amherst, the travelling journalist peer, was
the chap this time. Jack and he Cold-
streamed together in France, and he hadn't
taken his typewriter from behind his ear
when Jack sent an SOS asking his services.
Popular Irene Gliddon was the bride, and
St. John’s, in Darlinghurst, the scene.
Lindfield girl Olive Raymond made the
great surrender last week in her own North
Shore suburb. In St. Alban’s she was wed
to Cecil K. Shcedy, of Roseville. Limerick
lace and milk-white satin were allied in the
wedding garment, and the same lace mingled
with the tulle of the flowing veil. Three
’maids, in daffodil taffetas and snug little
hats of gold lace, followed the bride, whose
parents, Mr. and Mrs. W. F. Raymond,
later staged the wedding celebrations in the
foyer of the Lindfield Theatre.
Waverley’s youthful Mayoress, Mary
Hunter, went to St. Stephen’s the other
evening and m'et a young man with a ring
and Padre Hugh Paton with a book. Mayor
D. Hunter handed his youngest daughter up
the aisle with quite a touch of ceremony,
and in her frock of ivory satin moire, with
a sweeping train enveloped in a rosy mist
of tulle veil, the little Mayoress was quite
an impressive figure. Dorothy Lang, from
Wollongong, ’maided in powder-blue moire,,
the inside of the scalloped peacock skirt
pink-lined like a shell. A large picture-hat
of blue straw and an armful of delphiniums
and pink carnations were accessories. Rus-
sell Welbourn, of Uralla, was the young man
before alluded to. Reginald McCay best-
manned, and bride’s sister Mrs. R.
Turnell hostessed the reception at the Espla-
nade, Bondi. Here 200 guests made merry
in the intervals between 10 speeches. After
(he honeymoon Mrs.,Welbourn will still be
Mayoress.
Midway through last week the United
Service Institution staged another of its
“Let’s talk and dance” evenings at its home
in Bligh-street. The party was at once a
welcome to Captain Stevenson, the new
Superintendent of Naval Establishments, and
Mrs. Stevenson, and the final dance of the
season. Bunting, the club’s great stand-
by. struck a decorative and spirited note;
and a display of fencing added to the mar-
tial atmosphere. Colonel Spain and Mrs.
Spain bade the guests welcome, Mrs. Spain
bringing black georgettes starry with
diamente to the task. Mrs. Stevenson’s
Apple Isle complexion glowed like a hedge-
l-ose above flounced black tulle. Comman-
der Garsia was one of the merry throng,
and the Lieutenant F. Daniells put their
bright smiles into the night; and one of the
prettiest frocks was sported by Mrs. Water-
house—a mist of blue lace and tulle.
On November 14 at tlie Town Hall there
will be a cabaret to help in the raising of
£5OOO for T.B. sufferers; Mrs. John Garlick
is president of the flutter. As there is no
society for the prevention of such cruelties,
eggs will be beaten and cream whipped in
a hundred homes, whose dwellers are intent
on winning the sponge-sandwich competi-
tion, which is to be the cabaret’s principal
by-product.
OVERHEARD.
Little Lady : “What a terrible shock you must
have had —to wake up and find a burglar in your
bedroom 1”
Large Lady: “Oh, that wasn’t the worst, my
dear! It was what the wretch said. When my
husband jumped out and grabbed him, he begged
to be let off. He had a wife, and it was terrible
hard to keep things going these times, he said—
as we’d knew ourselves if we were married!”


mediate
and phenomenal
success Justld.es
the quality cf
ses
ft©
3
m
w
ss®
UM
B©3:
fSSs
SOS
SESj
PP
©:-k©
sai
mm
mm
Lt:il
i im
rC*
A
i -
Ilk
{?
mm
&
O
©
» > >
I s
2
U- lurnwHn
jllf
•TOVU'.'^ar
18
tel
»
=j
■nCr
C,cP
Ok
«0°
AW
jty,
ISjTVER before in the history of Australia has a whisky been ac-
corded such an instantaneous and overwhelming success by
the entire Commonwealth as McCallum's Perfection Scots Whisky.'
5 “ Perfecfion has justified its name in every way. In its high
quality ... mellowed mildness ... its stopper cork ... its aluminium
drinking >cup ! So mellow is McCallurrrs Perfection Scots Whisky
that it is appreciated even when taken “ neat.” 5 Beyond every-
thing though, is the guarantee that the House of McCalium will
maintain the quality give you constantly the same whisky
which has been the pride of Scotland since 1807. 5 These
things have made McCallum’s Perfection Scot’s Whisky Austra-
lia’s fovourite whisky. Call for it by name in the hotel, the
bottle store, or at your club
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO.-, LTD.,
' MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
Sole Distributors Jor the House of McCALLUfy
M ( CALLUMI
KRHITION SCOTS WHISKY!


Startling Innovations at
re
Dancing till ! a.m.
EVENING DRESS OPTIONAL.
A La Carte Service.
Minimum Charge 7/6.
Afternoon and Evening
Mr. Ernest C. Rolls’s New York
Cabaret Revue.
Popular Cabaret Teas
Monday to Friday 2/6
Saturday 4/-
’Phone M 4131 for your reservation.
THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
MONDAY—Price 3d.
<r
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
LOVELY
LAKELAND
Where the ocean surf booms on
miles of white beach, where the
rolling, green-mantled hills
slope into the mirrored blue
of the sea—there, sunlit
and sparkling, stretch
the Ginpsland
Lakes, a string
of glittering
jewels in a
setting of
green
and
gold.
Consult the
GOVERNMENT TOURIST BUREAU
QUEEN’S WALK, MELBOURNE.
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Merry Christmas!
BY ARTHUR GROOM
ILLUS'TPATED BY HARPY J. WEXTON
Synopsis : Sandy Jackson, tired of
looking for work and utterly broke in
Brisbane, decides to get back to fami-
liar surroundings, as far west as
possible. Pratten, commercial traveller,
refuses him a lift in Queen-street, and
Sandy crawls into the small space in
the back of the car. He is undis-
covered, and the car, which Pratten
is not used to driving, starts out for
Toowoomba. On the way Sandy, get-
ting badly bumped about, yells out to
try to stop the car, but though Pratten,
who has picked up an acquaintance,
thinks he hears something, he
keeps on, until, taking a corner too
sharply, he washes into an embank-
ment. Sandy, semi-conscious, is dis-
covered, and the acquaintance having
had enough of Pratten’s driving for one
day, Sandy induces the commercial to
take him with him, on condition that
he will look after the car and sleep
in it at night. On the first night a
drunk comes to the car, and Sandy
engineers him out of two bottles of
lager and a bottle of rum. A little
later Sandy is under the • influence,
sitting in the car murmuring thick
approbation of “Mizzer Pratten.”
CHAPTER IV.
Sandy Makes Himself Useful.
WHEN travelling, Mr. Pratten usually
rose early, and wrote his business
reports before breakfast. He always
liked to keep his evenings as clear as pos-
sible.
He slept soundly in Toowoomba’s rare
atmosphere, and woke at six o’clock feeling
fit and eager to be on the road again.
The hotel did not announce breakfast until
eight o’clock; he would be able to inspect
his car in the meantime, and prepare a
report to his firm on the events of the
previous day.
He felt rather uncertain of Sandy Jack-
son, and a little dubious about the whole
affair. The man seemed so scraggy and
unreliable; and the idea of sitting for long
periods beside an unwashed bundle of rags
did not appeal to Mr. Pratten. He won-
dered when Sandy Jackson had last had a
bath. Anyway, he would go and talk to
the gentleman.
His car was the only vehicle in the back
yard. He stood for a moment and looked
at it; then he went nearer.
Sandy Jackson lay asleep, with his short
legs through the empty windscreen. Beside
him were empty bottles, and from one of
them liquid had spilt on the upholstery.
The bone of a leg of mutton lay on the
floor of the car, arid the steering-wheel
was covered with grease marks. Both doors
of the car were open, and the off-side
running-board carried Sandy’s boots. His
bare feet were rather grimy.
Mr. Pratten saw red. He advanced,
climbed half into the car, grasped Sandy
Jackson by his huge ears and pulled hard.
“Hoooo-000-ooer! Whee-eer! What th’
blazes!”—Sandy woke and shouted loudly.
“Here, cut out the rough stuff, Mister.
D’ye want me to bash yer flamin’ konk in!”
“You’ll get out of my car,” Mr. Pratten
declared warmly, “or I shall call a police-
man.”
Sandy got slowly out, walked up very
close to Mr. Pratten, and played a tattoo
on that gentleman’s waist-
coat with a grimy forefinger.
“Now look here, Mr. Prat-
ten, you got the cow by the
tail. You ain’t ready to
start yet. Run away an’ have a feed—
I’ve had mine, see! Come back here in
half an hour, and your shuffer’ll be at his
post, Mister, see!”
Mr. Pratten fully intended to tell the
police about Sandy Jackson; but just at
that moment the breakfast gong went and
he discovered his hunger. He fell into con-
versation with a strange traveller seated
opposite at the breakfast table, and in-
quired about the state of the Western
roads.
“How far are you going?” the stranger
asked.
“Practically straight to Longreach,” Mr.
Pratten answered. “That’s about five or
six hundred miles. And then I may receive
instructions to continue straight to Clon-
curry. ill depends on the state of the
mining industry.”
The stranger did not appear to be inter-
ested in mining. He toyed with a spoon.
“Ever been to Longreach by road be-
fore?”
“No. I always took the train.”
“H’m. Well, accept an old hand’s advice.
If you get the chance to pick up a gate-
opener, do it and thank your lucky stars.
If there’s one damn curse worse than
all the rest in the back country it’s the
gates. I used to try knocking them open
with my bumpers; but the bumpers they’re
making nowadays must have soft steel in
’em.”
Mr. Pratten grew suddenly silent and
toyed with a fork. He had dismissed his
gate-opener.
When he returned downstairs with his
portmanteaus, he paid his bill, then had two
drinks with his breakfast-table companion.
“See you again,” he said, and made towards
the back door.
“Inky-pinky!” returned the stranger, and
Mr. Pratten chuckled. At least Sandy
Jackson was correct in his criticism of
farewells. Very few people seemed to say
the same thing.
He stopped at the back door and gaped.
Sandy Jackson’s large coat hung on the
dented radiator cap. Sandy’s top end was
dressed in a dirty torn shirt, and a long pair
of baggy trousers reached almost to his
armpits; his feet were still bare, and he was
rubbing the undamaged side of the car with
inhuman ferocity. Sweat poured from his
face. The unbroken half of the wind-
screen was as clear as crystal. The steering-
wheel shone. The wheels were without sign
of mud or dust.
Mr. Pratten felt undecided. He had
bought the car a week before. Its high
polish and sparkling lines had impressed
him immensely in the showrooms; but now
he was dumbfounded. Sandy Jackson was
a master hand.
Suddenly Sandy Jackson saw him. He
wiped a great discolored strip of sheeting
across his wet face.
“Aw, run away for a minute, will yer?”
he gasped. “Give a bloke a chance!”
“Good Lord!” Mr. Pratten gasped. He
could not say more.
“Come back in five minutes,” Sandy com-
manded seriously. “I don’t stand nobody
interferin’ when I’m workin’.”
Mr. Pratten returned to the hotel lounge.
He felt queer; his brain was in a whirl. Some-
how he felt like kicking the idiotic creature
out of the hotel yard—but could he? That
was the question. Evidently he had picked
up a dark horse. He took out his watch
and allowed six minutes to tick by. Then
he went again into the back yard.
Sandy stood calmly before the car. His
face was solemn, and he had put on his
boots and coat. He was still hatless, though
he had evidently washed his face a bit.
“Hop in, Mister,” he commanded.
“Engine wants to chew up more benzine
at two an’ twopence a gallon.”
Mr. Pratten climbed in and started the
engine. Sandy opened the iron gates wide,
and climbed in beside him.
Mr. Pratten drove down through the main
street of Toowoomba.
He turned to the left across the railway
line, and suddenly put the car into neutral.
“Clean forgot about benzine,” he ex-
claimed suddenly. “Lucky there’s a bowser
handy.”
The car drew up with a jerk; a mechanic
came out.
“How many?” he asked.
“Six,” Mr. Pratten answered quickly.
The mechanic pumped for six gallons, and
disappeared behind the car.
“Hey, what’s the joke?” he shouted a few
seconds later.
“Joke—what joke?” Mr. Pratten was
thoroughly alarmed. “Tank leaking?”
“No, it’s full —full to the top!”
Mr Pratten almost somersaulted from the
car.
“Impossible!” he exclaimed. “I haven’t
put a gallon in since I left Brisbane yester-
day, and I’ve registered a hundred and
seventeen miles.”
“But you must have put it in.” The
mechanic was inclined to be sarcastic.
“There’s your tank full, anyway.”
Mr. Pratten bent over, dipped his finger
into the tank, examined it and straightened
up.
“Well, I can’t explain it,” he said weakly.
The mechanic walked haughtily into his
garage.
Mr. Pratten reddened. He started his
engine angrily, and drove up the street. A
signpost pointed out the way to Dalby.
“That benzine’s got me beat,” he said.
“Yeh?” Sandy remarked. “What makes
you think that?”
Mi-. Pratten stiffened in his seat. “Did
you put it there?” he demanded.
“Well, I’m not sayin’ I did”-
“Oh, and where did it come from?”
Sandy chuckled. “There was one bird
give me a job ten years ago,” he said
quietly. “He swindled me out of me wages.
He rolled into town in a big Crossley late
last night, an’ parked his car in the pub
yard. That benzine sort of leaked out of it.”
Mr. Pratten drove in silence. He felt
queerly disturbed. At intervals he watched
the face of the small man beside him. He
couldn’t make up his mind what sort of a
rascal he had picked up.
“You haven’t told me your full name,” he
suggested after a long silence.
“Haven’t I?” Sandy answered slowly.
“Sandy Jackson, with special pronouncin’ on
the ‘Sandy.’ F’rinstance, ‘Sandy, cuman-
ava-feed’—‘Sandy, cuman-ava-drink.’ That
reminds me, Mister, we ain’t had no er—m
beer to-day. There’s a pub five mile on.”
The conversation dropped, and Mr. Prat-
ten drove on through Jondaryan. Fowls
ran wildly before the car, and Sandy shouted
in delight.
“Can’t yer skittle ’em?” he almost
screeched.
“Certainly not!” Mr. Pratten did not
believe in cruelty to dumb animals and
birds.
“Huh! Well, I know a cove what can
hit fowls on their beaks with his front
wheel, an’ make ’em spin circles for three
minutes; then he can come back, hit ’em
the opposite way an’ unspin ’em again. What
about givin’ it a fly?”
Mr. Pratten did not deign a reply.
A minute later Jondaryan lay behind.
The car gathered speed on the good black-
soil road and flew towards Dalby.
From Dalby onwards the road roughened.
Wet weather had almost obliterated the
track beyond the small siding of Macalister,
and Mr. Pratten gradually lost his com-
posure. The car swayed from side to side.
The bumps seemed to be endless. Sandy
kept silent except for one characteristic
remark. At Mr. Pratten’s outbursts of
temper he would remain quiet until the air
was clear again; then he would mutter
solemnly:
“Yes, Mister, an’ it’s'double that. You’re
cornin’ on, Mister.”
Sandy seemed to know every inch of the
road. No time was lost in deciding which
was the correct one at any junction. He
would point to one, and mention that ha
had walked it during the dry season so
many years before.
Miles appeared, a calm little town on a
sandy patch, surrounded by thick timber.
“We’d better stay here, an’ go on in the
mornin’ up Taroom way,” Sandy advised.
Mr. Pratten agreed. He was tired of
driving, and had a brutal headache. He
drove round on a clear patch behind the
hotel, which was a two-storey building
almost as old as the ground beneath it.
JIM WALTERS.
“I’ll bet that pub was up before Captain
Cook saw Australia,” Sandy announced.
“Maybe Julius Caesar got somethin’ to say
about it.”
The comment passed by Mr. Pratten. “If
you mess this car up with grease and rub-
bish to-night I’ll complain to the police,”
he growled.
“She’ll be like a shiny shillin’ in the
mornin’, Mister. Just don’t forget that feed
an’ er—m beer. I’m hungry as a cat, an’
look at all the gates I’ve opened to-day.”
Mr. Pratten turned and went into the
hotel. Sandy sat in the car and stretched
his legs. He lolled as much as it was pos-
sible to 1011, and within a few minutes
was surrounded by a steadily growing group
of enthusiastic youngsters. His tales of wild
skids, swift attempts on speed records and
hairbreadth escapes from horrible collisions
kept his listeners spellbound.
CHAPTER V.
Meet Jim Walters, Our Other Hero.
James King Walters was thirty-three,
though in solemn repose he looked forty.
When he smiled he looked twenty. People
(Continued on page 51.)


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la, Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
rnt
--
J:,.
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
The Wonder Watch of the Age
V Wearing Winds it !
Simply wear it as and when you will upon
your wrist and it goes and Never Stops. Off
your wrist, it will keep going for 34 hours.
It is Dustproof, Damp-proof and cannot Over-
wind. No wonder folk hail as the latest,
greatest, and final refinement in watchmaking
The Harwood
SELF-WINDING
Wrist Watch
Soils Agents foi Australasia; ARONSON & CO., (PTY.) LTD., HOLT HOUSE, YORK STREET,
-
IM
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckley's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
R[?] C[?] 800[?] [?]
Buckle[?] [?] [?]
So[?]
All roads led to Flemington on Saturday,
and sedans were parked in thousands in the
members’- and grand-stand enclosures. On
the riverside, by the elms, the array of motor-
vans for the transport of showed
that the racing horse has his share of modern
comfort. His moving stall is luxuriously
fitted and padded. A lovely. cool day, marred
only by the perfume of boiling-down opera-
tions wafted from the abattoirs, ensured good
patronage, though the attendance was a little
below that of the other three days.
The Governor-General and Lady Stone-
haven with the State vice-regals and various
guests of the Federal and State Government
Houses, lined up again and stayed for the
last race, which gave Mrs. L. R. Buxton
another win, this time with Parsee. To the
fair owner, who wore royal-blue moire
sprinkled with embi’oidercd blossoms and a
large Bangkok hat of the same shade, the
result was a surprise. She had not a sou on
her entry.
There was a spring air about the dressing
of the ladies in the v.-r.’ pens. Lady Stone-
haven was in printed satin that mingled
browns and blues, her hat being berry-red.
Lady Somers sported brown and white georg-
ette with a mace-colored straw hat. The
chatelaine of Adelaide Government House
wore millinery of ecru lace and black satin,
her gown being pink and white. Mrs. Jim
Fairbairn, whose fawn ensemble was topped
by a felt toque swathed with dull gold, was
in the State Governor’s bunch for a while,
as were also Mrs. George Blackwood, and
Miss Byron Moore. Mrs. A. V. Kewney,
the Winter-Irvings, Mrs. Rupert Downes
and other usuals were in the committee
ladies’ box. Captain and Mrs. Treaty were
on the lawn, she wearing a charming blue
coat frock and tuscan hat. Mrs. T. J. Ryan
had a white orchid nestling on the shoulder
of a pearl grey gown. Anne Gordon, daugh-
ter of Justice and Mrs. Gordon, of Sydney,
was frocked in blue and white crepe de
Chine with natural-toned straw hat. Mrs.
L. Lewis, from Adelaide, displayed the new
yellow in her coat and hat, her chiffon frock
of the same shade being sprayed with pale
green. Mrs. G. Sleight’s black ensemble had
additions of ninon patterned in poppies and
daisies. Mrs. T. A. Tabart, Mrs. T. V.
Millea. Mrs. Jack Lillies, Mrs. G. Brooke
Hutchings and Mrs. W. M. Robins were
among the smartly gowned.
Fashions for the Cup ran right back to
winter, and there was a resurrection of fur
coats and wraps that had lost their fresh-
ness with months of wear. Lucky were the
women who had rugs to cover their silken
hose, and luckier still the very few who pos-
sessed coats equipped with the new storm
collars that reach to hat crowns. The G.-G.
and Lady Stonehaven came in an open car-
riage with postilions, outriders and military
escort, and were received in state on the
lawn in front of the grandstand. Also fol-
lowing tradition, the members of the Savage
Club drove in coach and four, Major a’Bec-
kett, as of yore, handling the ribbons.
Optimistically, several of the vice-reines
favored large hats. Lady Stonehaven had
a shady black straw banded with wliitc_ and
lime ribbon above a black and gold tissue
coat, fur-collared. Lady Somers began the
day with a navy blue georgette and flowered
silk ensemble, .but soon covered the whole
with a fur coat. Her hat was of navy straw.
Lady de Chair and daughter Elaine both
topped musquash coats with floppy black
velvet hats. Lady llore-Ruthven faced the
chill breeze in a brocaded tissue wrap, but
soon added fur. Her millinery was an out-
size in brown Bangkok. Lady Campion and
Lady Goodwin were well wrapped. Mrs.
Brassey sported a ruby ensemble with grey
astrachan finishing, but wore sable later.
Visitors who made their first acquaintance
with the Cup and its 100,000 spectators were
Mr. and Mrs. W. M. Masefield, connections
of the famous John; Lord and Lady Craig-
avon and General Massey Lloyd and his wife.
The Stonehavens’ two small daughters were
there.
Oaks Day opened cold and grey, and the
plumage of early feminine arrivals at Flem-
ington was dull in harmony. After the first
race there was a burst of sunshine, and sum-
mer frocks emerged chrysalis-like from be-
neath sombre covering. Two-piece suits
were numerous, but there was an array of
gay frocks and hats, and quite a crowd
of all-red turnouts. Naturally it wasn’t
such a dressy affair as Derby Day, and the
men looked positively unstylish. Tall hats
were conspicuous by their absence, and even
in v.-r. circles the bowler was substituted.
The De Chairs were missing from the State
Governor’s contingent, but daughter Elaine
was in the G.-G.’s box. Lady Stonehaven’s
sulphur-hued felt hat was allied to a corded
velvet coat that covered a brown-and-gold
embroidered gown beneath. Lady Somers
took a chance with the weather, crowning
a fawn-and-navy spotted ninon frock with
a currant-red straw hat. Lady llore-Ruth-
ven was a study in black and white satin,
in jumper mode.
Mrs. Rupert Fanning’s ficelle lace gown
was worn with a coat collared in fur to
match, and Mrs. Percy filackburn chose
one of the new striped navy silks, with a
blending hat. Mrs. Rogers Thomson was
another of the well-dressed patrons. Among
Sydney pilgrims were Mrs. Sydney Herring
and her daughter Diana and Mr. and Mrs.
Noel Heath. Other visitors were Evelyn
Drury, of Brisbane, and Mr. and Mrs. Eus-
tace Burrows from the Old Dart. Mrs.
Burrows’s black coat of clipped Persian
lamb stood in a class by itself in the fashion
parade. Lindsay Bruce, a niece of the
Robert Bruces, a handsome girl with rare
Titian locks, was in rose-pink kasha and
felt hat. Rear-Admiral Evans’s wife was
one of the patriots who favored all-red. Our
country districts were represented by the
Jim Fairbairns, of Mt. Elephant, the Osborne
Fairbairns, the Gordon Chirnsides, the
Staughtons, and the Shepherd Grimwades.
from Geelong.
Though parasols were not much used there
were two unique examples. Qne was of
pale-green crinoline straw, fringed with
darker green, and the other had an Oriental
doll seated in the centre of innumerable
ribbon frills graduated in color from apricot
to black.
The dark-eyed maiden is Eunice Weston,
who as the Australian representative of the
Operatic Asso-
ciat i o n of
Dancing has
for the last
two years or
so been teach-
ing many of
ou r younger
set. She learnt
hcE art under
Adeline Gonee
and Judith
Spinosa, and
was the lat-
ter’s b e a d
assistanf for
12 years. With
a star student,
Esme Eshelby,
who hails
from Too-
woomba, Miss
Weston gave
a sample of
her talents at
the Navy League Ball on the Mongolia last
week. She intends going to Bananaland at
Christmas time, and will hold a summer
school at Redcliffe for a fortnight.
One of the big social events of last week
was the ball given at State Government
House by Governor and Lady Somers, held
on the same night as the dance on the
P. and O. liner Mongolia in aid of the Navy
League. There were many society folk at both
functions, the shipboard hop being most
favored by the unattached set. The altera-
tions and improvements at Stonington have
not increased the dancing space, and even
with the addition of a marquee for sitting-
out there was a crush. Temperature being
near zero and the night rainy, there was no
promenading in the garden. The flowers
used in dressing up mantelpieces and fire-
places were azaleas and irises, and there
were palms and lots of roses everywhere
else. The frocking ran mainly to figured
chiffon and lace, and some crystal-beaded
white roses stood out strikingly. Lady
Somers had ropes of pearls on a chiffon
gown patterned in white, black and light
red. The Governor-General accompanied
Lady Stonehaven, whose georgette gown of
apple-green was draped. Diamonds sparkled
upon her green coiffure band.
The visiting vice-regents were all present.
Lady de Chair’s filmy attire was of orange
tone upon gold; daughter Elaine graced
ostrich-feather-trimmed satin of deep petu-
nia hue mingled with a paler color. Lady
Campion and Lady Goodwin wore black
with sprinklings of rhinestones; and Miss
O’Grady looked well in lettuce-green crepe
de Chine. Visitors from overseas included
Lord and Lady Craigavon and General and
Mrs. Massey Lloyd, the last-named sporting
ermine over nattier-blue satin. The wife of
Captain R. B. Brassey, nephew of a one-
time Vic. Governor, was striking in almond-
green and gold-brocaded tissue. Mayoress
Luxton was in black grounded ninon. pat-
terned with buttercups and foliage. Chief
Justice- Irvine and his lady, Alexander Pea-
cock and his lady, she in midnight blue,
the Harry Chauvels, Colonel and Mrs. Bun-
dock, Mrs. John Winter Irving, who sported
one of the crystal-white robes, and the
Robert Knoxes were some of the guests at
the v.-r. party.
The Mongolia’s decks were well covered in
against the wintry night, and flags, festoons
of fairy lights, Chinese lanterns and heaps
of flowers made a cheery setting for the
thousand or more dancers. Interludes in
the jazz were provided by the classical tip-
toeing of Eunice Weston and her pupil Esme
Eshelby. The committee that ran the func-
tion was assisted by the Navy League’s lion,
sec., Captain P. Roach Pierson; Olive Vale,
in mist-blue taffeta and silver lace, being hon.
sec. of the dance. Deborah Mackay Sim,
wearing nattier-blue satin, and Mollie Lang-
ford and Marian Stevens, in lace gowns,
attended to the ticket distribution.
Some of the acres attached to Stomngton
having been filched during the State Gover-
nor’s absence, the 3000 invited to last week’s
garden-party found their meanderings re-
stricted. Only the garden wore its summer
attire, for the weather was again just cussed,
with an arctic breeze, and tailored suits
and furs escaped once more from their too-
brief sojourn with the mothballs. His Ex.
and Lady Somers stood in the shelter of a
picturesque tent and faithfully gripped hands
with all in the slowly-wending crocodile of
humanity. Grey and black traced ninon with
a black cloth coat, pointed fox furs and a
wide-leafed grey straw hat formed the vice-
regal lady’s attire. The G.-G. _ and Lady
Stonehaven arrived for tea, she in a kasha
coat covering a blue and white crepe-de-
Chine frock, with a large blue straw hat.
Lud Mayor Luxton and Mrs. Luxton were
there, she wearing a kolinsky coat over a
diaphanous gown mingling shades of orange.
The v.-r. parties from the other States were
missing, but there was a good representation
of the Navy.
At the ball given by the Governor-General
and Lady Stonehaven the vice-regal ladies
wore only the most modest Of brow-glitter,
and very few of the permanent waves of
the other feminine guests sported a diamond,
though some fine ropes of pearls adorned
corsages. But tho G.-G. and the six State
Governors made a resplendent show; and
scarlet mess-jackets and the uniforms of
Navy and Air Force added color to the
scene. Several dainty buds, most of them
in white tulle and 'carrying posies,
were presented to their Exes. Trees of
azaleas of various shades of pink figured in
the decorations, and gilded baskets of roses
were upon the supper tables.
Lady Stonehaven’s black chiffon was pat
terned in pink and fawn poppies and
diamonds were mounted on green velvet
about her hair. Lady Somers chose a blue-
green satin gown dipping to the back. Lady
H'ore-Ruthven was in black glistening with
black sequins. The N. S. Wales Vice-reine’s
Wedgwood-blue taffeta had silver embellish-
ment, and Elaine de Chair’s lengthy frock of
ivory taffeta had lines of crystal. Lady
Campion favored blue and cream lace, and
Lady Goodwin picked cherry-red satin. Mar-
garet O’Grady’s buttercup georgette frock
had contrast in green satin shoes. Lady
Craigavon was arresting in white with
gleaming trimming. Mrs. Gordon Chirn-
side’s filmy lilac lace was delightful, and
Minette Turck achieved a striking effect in
gold lace. Another lacewearer was Mrs.
Stuart Brunton, in blue.
Guests from across the northern border
included Mrs. Pat Osborne, whose powder-
blue gown had a top-dressing of sparkle;
Rosemary Osborne, in black; Mrs. Hugh
Bullivant, in wine-colored georgette; Mrs. L.
Davies, who wore her presentation gown
of jewelled net and gold tissue; and Miss
Davies, in a fascinating creation of wood-
brown tulle. The Adelaide contingent
included Mayor Bonytlion and his wife, and
their daughter Betty, the last-named in
apricot satin. From the West came Senator
and Mrs. Kingsmill; Mrs. Wintorbottom, in
lilac chiffon and velvet, and Mrs. J. L.
Stewart, wearing reseda-green lace. Tassie
furnished Mr. and Mrs. Tom Lyons, she in
grey moire, their daughter Sylvia, and
Cynthia Cameron.
After a good deal of wobbling on F'riday
morning the thermometer finally took an up-
ward course, so the garden party at Federal
Government House was graced by some quite
ethereal summer attire. On the male side
there was a brave array of tall hats and
frock-coats and a liberal sprinkling of naval,
military and air force uniforms. The garden
was looking its gayest, and a band played
light-heartedly. Tea was brewed in the ball-
room and dining-hall in settings of pink
carnations, delphiniums and azaleas. The
Stonehavens had a strenuous time shaking
hands with 4000 guests. Her Ex.’s straw
hat matched tin; large pink roses on her
chiffon frock, which was bordered with white
and traced with lines of black bebd ribbon.
The State Governor came with Lady Somers,
she in flounced raiment of black, splashed
with field flowers, and a red Baku hat. The
other deputy-kings and -queens of the Com-
monwealth mingled in the throng.
Mrs. T. H. Payne’s lace gown blended
tones of orange and brown, and natural
ostrich plumes curled about her russet straw
hat. Her daughter Ella featured beige m
lace frock, coat and hat, cherry velvet en-
livening her millinery. Mrs. T. G. M bites
turnout was of grey georgette worn with
silver fox furs and hat and footwear in
tone. The Irvine lady, who accompanied
the Chief Justice, was in sapphire-blue lace
with hat to match. Mrs. Ivan Gutmann
blended shades of brown and fawn in her
embroidered crepe-de-Chine jumper suit and
hat. Valerie Purves wore a necklet of tour-
malines with an ensemble frock that just
matched, and a straw hat of a little darker
shade. Other guests were the Creswell lady,
Mrs. Drake-Brockman, Mrs. Byron Moore,
Mrs. C. Dennis, the Richard Lintons, she
wearing a black lace coat over floral ninon
apparel, Squadron-leader Eric Harrison and
Mrs. Harrison, and Mrs. Lyster Jackson.
The decorations and the feast, the features
of the Australian Club Ball which distin-
guish it from the other hops of the Cup
season, surpassed the magnificence of pre-
vious occasions. This is the club’s jubilee
year, and the members decided upon a scheme
of embellishment that would recall the foun-
dation days. With aid of silver ribbons,
frosting and gilded wreaths the ballroom
was given the atmosphere of the mid-lic-
torian era, and oval transparencies picturing
belles and lady-killers in the attire of the
’seventies helped the illusion. The supper
menu, however, was quite up-to-date. Presi-
dent Ilonty had his niece, Mrs. Ronald
Cumming, in powder-blue velvet on which
pink blossoms wore implanted, to aid in
Receiving the guests, who included the
Governor-General and Lady Stonehaven and
their house-party of vice-regals, and Lord
and Lady Somers and tlieir guests of the
racing season. A couple of maidens made
their first bow to society at the hop.
The Louis Nelkens had an evening party,
which is a sort of annual fixture with them
for the gee-gee carnival. Their Toorak dwell-
ing was dolled up with lovely blossoms, in-
cluding Japanese irises, which are. particu-
larly lovely at present; and a string band
played cheery accompaniment to chatter.
Deep blue chiffon splashed with fawn and
mixed colorings gowned the hostess, a daugh-
ter of the late .Chief Justice Madden. Mrs.
Pat Osborne, of N.S.W., Mrs. Guy Madden,
Judge and Mrs. Williams and their daughter
Ainslie were among the guests.
An afternoon party was given during Race
Week by the Archibald Curries, whose home.
Milliccnt, is one of the garden residences of
Toorak. Mrs. Currie’s biscuit-colored lace
and satin ensemble was topped with mil-
linery bedecked with wallflowers. Her
daughter Kitty’s youth was set off by a
figured silk frock and flowered straw hat.
Dickinson-Montcath pictures one of the
debs, who
curtsied to the
G.-G. and
Lady Stone-
haven. She is
Ann, elder
d a u g hter of
Mr. and Mrs.
A. G r en b r y
Outhwaite, of
South Yarn.
The illustra-
tive art of her
mother, Ida
Rentoul that
was, has ob-
tained wide-
spread fame,
and Ann, who
is dark-haired
and petite, has
inherited some
of her mother’s
talent and is
an artist also.
Her coming-out frock had a bodice of white
moire and a long skirt that was made up
of billows of tulle.
Shirley Isabel Bayles promised at the
Toorak kirk to be a dutiful wife to John
Henry Roxburgh, of Burw T ood, Sydney. The
wedding was attended by local leaders of
society, who later assembled at the Toorak
home of the bride’s parents, Mr. and Mrs.
Walter Bayles. Arum lilies and pink car-
nations decked the church, and there were
rhododendrons, azaleas and roses in the
reception rooms of Woorigoleen. The bride’s
white satin gown was long of sleeve. Yards
and yards of tulle fastened to a very wide
head-band,. pearl embroidered and dangling
many more pearls, formed veil and train.
She carried a bouquet of lilies of the valley
and was attended by her sister Barbara and
Betty and Janet Winter Irving, who wore
with their pale green flounced georgette
frocks coatees of the same material appli-
qued with ninon to magenta, yellow and
green. Their Baku hats were of spring-leaf
hue, and immense sheaves of tulips nestled
in their arms. Mrs. Bayles was in mush-
room-pink chiffon with a swathed .satin coat
and a deeper pink hat. The bridegroom's
parents were unable to come over owing to
illness, and the C. H. Readings deputised for
them.


/
FUL
Results
/
SIZE
heretofore unheard of
i na Low-Priced motor car
fy
/
!
W'
/
r.
»
9
EVERY day brings
additional emphasis to
the self - evident fact that
the improved Plymouth is
to - day’s great example of
progress in the low - priced
field. ,
There never before has
been a low - priced car of
Plymouth’s full-size roomi-
ness incorporating such
rugged strength and stability
—that could be driven with
real comfort at top speed
hour after hour —so smooth
and flexible, so quiet, so alive
and so comfortable.
Plymouth is the only low-
priced car with the advanced
scientific advantages of
Chrysler engineering and
designing --- with Chrysler
4-wheel hydraulic brakes.
It is simply impossible to
appreciate all that to-day’s
Plymouth is and does until
you sit in the driver’s seat
and get the actual feel of the
car. We invite you to test
Plymouth in a demonstration
of your own choosing.
w
New South Wales . . . Larke, Neave & Carter, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland ......... . Ward Motors, Limited, Brisbane
West Australia Wm. Attwood Motors, Ltd., Perth
South Australia .... O. T. Rodda Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania Metro Motors Pty., Ltd., Hobart
Neu) Zealand Todd Motor Company, Wellington
New Guinea ...... W. R. Carpenter & Co., Ltd., Rabaul


ytuyu
LEIPZIG SPRING FAIR (GERMANY).
Incorporating Great Engineering and Building Fairs.
BEGINS MARCH 2nd, 1930.
BUYERS GOING ABROAD must visit the Leipzig Trade Fair, the
world’s largest Manufacturing, Industrial and Engineering Exposition.
Introductions arranged. Full information free on request to —
ytuyu
Authorised Representatives: C. N. KEPPEL, c/o Mavcard Lund & Co., Box 585 D G.P.0., Melbourne.
LARS G. BRUNDAIIL, 6 Dailey Street, Box 3127 P G.P.0., Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIAN MUSEUM MAGAZINE
Non-Technical Popular Natural History Periodical, Fully Illustrated.
OCTOBER-DECEMBER NUMBER NOW READY.
Principal Contents— THE REEF BUILDER, W. Boardman; lIONEYEATERS OF THE HEATH, K. A.
Hindwood, R.A.O.U. ; DEEP SEA EXPLORATION ON THE “DANA,” T. 0. Roughley and G. p - Whitley;
CAVE HUNTING AND WHAT WE FOUND, Charles Barrett, C.M.Z.S. ; CAPTAIN COOK’S LEATHER-
JACKET, Tom Iredale and Gilbert P. Whitley; A NATURALIST ON THE SOUTH-WEST PLAINS.
Keith C. McKeown.
Single copies 1/1 posted. Annual Subscription, 4/4 posted.
From all Booksellers or direct from the Australian Museum, Sydney. ,
Museum Nature Postcards.- —Beautiful souvenirs of educational value, each with descriptive data, of tne
subject. Specially suitable for Christmas Greetings and sending abroad.
Australian Birds—3o studies in color, in sets of five. Australian Mammals —six studies in color, comp e e
in one set. Papuan Ethnological Studies —12 studies in sepia—complete in one set.
Price per set, 1/1 posted. Obtainable from the Australian Museum, Sydney, or leading booksellers.
HAIR.
c p -
need
HO
HERES
a nuj -
ytuyu
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youtli should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe- to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
&CUUriS CMEXICAN)
KkUtud S&uti
''REMOVES THE GREY'*
Sole Australian Agents:
■ DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (-i/6), 6d. being postage.
ggsk
w
Patents.
IMPROVEMENTS IN MATTRESS-
FILLING MACHINES.
Tlie proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 4746/26 is prepared to negotiate for the
sale of its rights in the above or for the
granting of a license to make, use and
vend the invention within the Commonwealth
of Australia on reasonable terms. Particu-
lars obtainable from Griffith and Hassel,
Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN
CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS.
The proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 13560/19 is prepared to negotiate for
the sale of his rights in the above or for the
granting of a license to make, use and vend
the invention within the Commonwealth
of Australia on reasonable terms. Particu-
lars obtainable from Griffith and Hassel,
Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
SHOE SHAPERS.
The proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 5170/26 is prepared to negotiate for
the sale of its rights in the above or for the
granting of a license to make, use and vend
the invention within the Commonwealth
of Australia on reasonable terms. Particu-
lars obtainable from Griffith and Hassel,
Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. ■ _
IMPROVEMENT IN A MATTRESS
ROLL FORMING AND STITCHING
MACHINE.
The proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No 4591/26 is prepared to negotiate for
the sale of its rights in the above or for the
granting of a license to make, use and vend
the invention within the Commonwealth
of Australia on reasonable terms. Particu-
lars obtainable from Griffith and Hassel,
Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Publication.
AUTHORS
are invited to forward MSS. of all descriptions
(especially Fiction and Poetry) for prompt PP?-* 1 '
cation. Address Messrs. Arthur Stockwell, Etc.,
29 Ludgate Hill, London, England.
Position Wanted.
OPPORTUNITY for hard work and ad-
vancement sought by Tasmanian, 21,
three years’ experience as costing and statis-
tical clerk. Particular adaptability tor
analytical work, some experience in interpre-
ting manufacturing costs. L. M., c/o. Bulle-
tin Office. ‘
Missing Friends.
piAN, ERNEST, husband of Ann Mar-
garet Ryan, formerly of Sydney but
late of Grey Street, East Melbourne, will
hear something to his advantage if lie com-
municates with THE NATIONAL TRUS-
TEES COMPANY, ,113 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne.
Legal Notice.
To
TN THE SUPREME COURT OP
1 QUEENSLAND.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
WILLIAM GEORGE CRASSEY
formerly of Brisbane in the State or
Queensland but whose present where-
abouts are not known.
TAKE NOTICE that an Action has been
commenced against you in the Supreme
Court of Queensland at Brisbane by Beryl
Alma Fay Crassey your Wife who by her
Petition filed in the said Court alleges that
continuously for a period of five years and
upwards you have deserted her to wit since
on or about the seventh day of September
1923. AND IT HAS BEEN ORDERED
that service of the Writ and Petition on
you by inserting this notice once m each—
the Sydney Bulletin and the Sydney
Morning Herald newspapers published in
New South Wales and in the Brisbane
Courier and the Brisbane Telegraph
newspapers published in Queensland and bv
filing and sticking up on the notice-board
in the Registry of this Court at Brisbane
copy of the said Writ and an office copy ot
the said Petition shall be deemed good and
sufficient service.
IE you decide to defend this action you
must within forty-four days after the last
act done as aforesaid enter an appearance
in the Registry of the Supreme Court ot
Queensland at Brisbane and that m detau.t
of your so doing judgment may be entered
against you. „ __ ,
' DATED this fourth day of November,
inoo
(L.s.) D. M. O’FLYNN,
Deputy Registrar.
M. C. Dalby, Solicitor, Brisbane.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
price
Contains everythin!/ a woman needs to know.
LIFE INSURANCE IS A NECESSITY!
It protects your dependants.
It provides for your old age.
It is a profitable investment.
It prevents sacrifice of property by
providing funds for probate duties.
To place your Life Assurance
to the best advantage
INSURE WITH
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Assets - - - £73,776,000.
Large Annual Bonuses.
INQUIRIES INVITED.
F. T. BRIDGES, Acting General Manager
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Little Sisters
Lennon's Hotel
BRISBANE
The Centre of Queensland's
Distinguished Social Life!
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Mrs. It. Farquharson and Mrs. J. Mayo
had a bridge and dance evening before leav-
ing f.r Sydney. A hollow square formed the
table, with a big bowl of meadow sweet,
gladioli and roses in the middle. Four corner
vases of the same flowers were billowed in
rose-colored tulle. Mrs. Farquharson wore
cyclamen taffetas, and Mrs. Mayo was in
black mariette with a flared skirt.
Jean Graham set bridge tables at Nym-
bodia, Clayfield, for Miss Jim Brown, who
is soon to be married. Roses, antirrhinums
and delphiniums decorated. Mrs. ,T. Jardine
Graham helped with the entertaining.
A party was given in the Epsworth Ilall
to welcome Mr. and Mrs. C. J. Dobbie back
from Auld Reekie and London. Black and
gold and Hallowe’en symbols decorated and
Mr. Dobbie gave an account of his travels.
It has been very hot and dry lately and
the road to Tambourine Mountain secs many
motor loads of people going up for a cool
change on the heights.
A note from New Guinea records that the
mountain goldfield on the Wau has had its
very first dance. Organisers were Mrs. Frank
Pryke, wife of the well-known pioneer and
discoverer of four New Guinea goldfields,
and Mrs. Bowen Jones. The hop was held
at the Ellyou bungalow, the excuse being
a farewell to Mr. Lealioy and a welcome to
Major Harrison. Quite a number of white
women are living on the fields, and
there was a good roll-up. The Wau now
boasts a sports club and tennis courts as
good as any in Australia. It’s only five
years since the most important social doings
in this part had cannibalism as their main-
spring.
The Opera Premiers, an amateur organisa-
tion, presented “The Cingalee” at Cremorne
T h e a t r e, to
help the Mater
Children’s Hos-
pital and the
A mbnl a n e e
Brigade. It
was a most
creditable per-
formance, well
staged and
costumed. Tiny
tots did an
Eastern dance
and a toy
soldier ballet
aud Gwen
Foott was the
solo dancer.
Honors went
to pretty Jill
Manners, pic-
tured here by
Poulsen, who
was Lady Pat.
She sings well.
l’earl Watson s clear soprano led the tea-
girls as Naitoomba and Dr. Cormac’s daugh-
ter Mabel played Soomoo brightly. Viva
Crowl had the name rSle and Laurie Peebles
was an attractive Angy, in blue and white.
A very charming feature was the temple
bells dance led by Gwen Foott. Tons of
blossomry. and more substantial gifts went
up to the performers.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
The delightful weather made the 164-mile
run to Victor Harbor and back a most enjoy-
able jaunt for those who were guests at the
garden party given by Knight William Sow-
den and his bride at their home. Castle-
maine, on the Hindmarsli River. The gar-
den was a mass of bloom, and the host and
hostess received in a cool rocky nook sur-
rounded with fern. Orchestral music and-
afternoon-tea served at tables decorated with
yellow broom and red geranium helped to
make the alfresco gathering a success.
The Edward Poveys gave a bright dance
at their residence, Gestria, Medindie, to cele-
brate the coming of age of their daughter
Nancy, who made a speech that proved she
has inherited the handsome Edward’s gift
of eloquence.
Yet another am. dram. soc. has come to
light, the Workers’ Educational Association
being the cradle of the latest, which recently
staged three one-act plays. There’s no
lack of dramatic and operatic talent in this
city.
Rehearsals of the pageant “The League of
Nations” are proceeding, and it promises to
he one of the most spectacular shows Adel-
aide has seen. The costumes are to be a
feature, and some wonderful scenery has
been sent from Melbourne.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The T.R.G.’s meeting at Elwick was not
thronged. The weather was atrocious, with
frequent showers and a cold wind. Mrs.
A. j. Miller, wife of the vice-president, helped
president Tom Lyons do the honors at tea,
in the absence of Mrs. Lyons on the main-
land. The O’Grady put in an appearance,
and there was a fair sprinkling of country
folk, among them Mrs. T. W. 11. Clarke
(Quorn). the Bruce Gibsons, the Alex. Reids
and tlie Archie Cottons (Swansea),
Betty Giblin and Mollie Eady, with the
committee of the Anglesca Free Kindergarten
to support them, engineered a very jolly little
dance at the Continental to raise funds for
the kindergarten. The supper tables were
decorated with peonies, pink roses and sweet-
peas. Margaret O’Grady, in a spring-green
lace frock, was among the dancers.
Mayor Sound.v and a group of representa-
tives of women’s organisations welcomed
Dame Janet Campbell at the Town Hall on
the morning of her first day in Hobart, and
in the evening the Child Welfare and- other
women’s organisations gave the visitor a re-
ception at the Continental, with the C.J.'s
lady in the lead. Dame Janet was the guest
of the O’Grady at Government House. Dur-
ing her stay she laid the foundation stone
of the new ring of the Alexandra Hospital.
The little motherless Freeman triplets had
a ceremonious christening at St. James’s,
when the committee of the. Mothercraft Home,
nurses in uniform and numerous well-wishers,
rolled up to see them labelled. Rosettes,
pink, blue and mauve respectively, distin-
guished the children, and many friends added
gifts of money to the little fund standing to
the credit of the three in the Savings Bank.
Dr. James Scott Reid’ brings his bride
(Betty Reid, of Cairns. Queensland) home
this month. The wedding took place at
Cairns, the leading lady wearing ivory satin
with clusters of rhinestones in an embroidered
design, and a veil of tulle held in place by
sprays of orange blossom. Nancy, sister of
the bride, and Joyce Atkinson (Cashmere
station) followed, in green and silver taffeta
and big picture-hats of green tulle. The
bride carried in her bouquet two sprigs
of white heather, one sent from Scotland and
one grown on the Tableland.
Moira, third daughter of the late W. and
Mrs. Loney, lias elected to cast in her lot
with Neil, fourth son of Dr. G. H. Gibson
and Mrs. Gibson, Batting Point.
The new residential part of Christ’s Col-
lege was given a. house-warming, for which
the common-room was decorated with wis-
taria and flags, and cleared for dancing,
while in the billiard and students’ rooms
there were bridge-tables. In the throng were
Chancellor Elliott Lewis and his lady. Vice-
Chancellor Stops and Mrs. Stops,*Col. and
Mrs. Thomas, Major and Mrs. Echlin, Prof.
Hytten and his wife. Profs. Pitman, Taylor
and McAulay, Miss Lowenstern, the Warlow
Davieses, Rev. and Mrs. T. K. Pitt and a
host of others.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
A riot of sweet-peas, heavily-scented roses
and aquilegia decorated the Karrakatta Club
reception rooms, and Iceland poppies and
tall blue larkspurs made a glorious contrast
in the winter garden on the evening of the
club’s annual social. Mrs. J. A. Klein, who
heads the president’s staff to Mrs. Mervyn
Griffith, received the guests in petunia georg-
ette. Mrs. Griffith’s black gown was. a,swing
with silk fringe. Kitty Gillies organised the
musical programme.
Mrs. Richard Purser did not include the
birds of King’s Park in the list of guests
for her garden-party, but many of them
came and perched in the high gum-trees at
Crawley to twitter their approval of an out-
of-doors entertainment. Flower-beds made
a gorgeous splash of color against the green
bush background. Tea-tables were spread
on the lawns.
An opening and dedication ceremony in
an amphitheatre of gum-trees and under a
cloud-flecked grey sky was performed at the
lych gate of the Upper Swan Anglican
Church. It is 102 years since Captain Stir-
ling camped for 10 days on that very spot.
Later on his friend Major Irwin took up
land thereabouts and made a gift to the
church of the block it stands on.
For her appointment with Ivan Gibbs at
St. Mary’s, Josephine Porter chose a frock
of biscuit-toned romaine and millinery in
the same shade of Baku straw. Edith Pearse
was her attendant in flowered and flared
georgette and a salmon-pink hat. The
’groom is a brother of clever May Gibbs,
creator of the Gumnut Babies.
There are only two women travelling with
the team of strapping young English giants
who are playing cricket in Australia. Mrs.
Woolley and Mrs. Legge went straight
through on the Orford, and did not break
their journey here to see the visitors’ vic-
tory. There were three days of rather dreary
play.
The W. H. Vincents are home again.
Daughters Helen and Lesley were left in
Paris, where music, French, domestic science
and dressmaking arc the subjects they have
chosen for a Continental polishing.
This is a Webb and Webb portrait of
Ethel Treadgold, who has stepped across
many concert
platforms i n
the cause of
charity. Her
lyric soprano
was trained by
Mr. Leckie, A.
C. llartleman,
of Melbourne,
and latterly by
Count Filip-
pini. Miss
Treadgold won
praise for her
portrayal o f
Violetta in “La
Traviata” dur-
ing the Filip-
pini o ]) e r a
season 1 a s t
year. She
plays the piano
well and em-
broiders ex-
quisitely.
With no stage trappings but a screen at
one end of the rehearsal room, an Irish
playlet depicting the wooing of a widow, in
which Moira Shacked and Enid Stephenson
took part, entertained members of the Reper-
tory Club on Hallowe’en night. A treasure
hunt enticed members ■to scamper into
Government House grounds, to John For-
rest’s statue and into a Government office
where an obliging official working overtime
kindly dug a clue out of the waste-paper
basket. Among the merrymakers were Molly
Ick, Miss Hosking, artist Margaret Saunders,
Miss Le Souef, Isobel McDonald, Jacqueline
Wright, Miss Orton and Mrs. Parker.
Among recent arrivals from London is
Lady Birdwood, who is visiting her daughter
Mrs. Colin Craig.
Mrs. Hugo Throssell has returned from
a round-Australia trip that included a visit
to Singapore and several weeks spent in
Malaya. The brave lady motored through
the wild States of the east coast of Malaya
with only a Chinese driver for company. She
slept in a rest-house where the star boarders
were Afghans, in a bedroom where the win-
dows, which wouldn’t lock, looked out on
a jungle where tigers prowled.


After your shampoo
ffl
&
a touch of Rowland's
Macassar Oil will re-
place the natural oil
which the shampoo re-
moved. The oil is very
necessary, for it pre-
vents thin, falling hair
and gives a perfect
healthy gloss. Comb
the oil well into the
hair.
112 Guilford Street, London, W. 0.1..
ENGLAND.
From all Chem-
ists, Stores and
Hairdressers.
Red for dark
hair; golden for
fair or grey hair.
HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE /
/.
High Blood Pressure, frequently the result of “nerves,” is a disease of our civilisation, and
generally attacks people between the ages of thirty and sixty.
“Nerves,” insomnia, dizziness and head pains are frequent symptoms of High Blood Pressure.
The well-known Sydney Chemist Mr. W. J. Rogers has prepared a home treatment for High
Blood Pressure which has proved invaluable to many sufferers.
Containing no drugs, easy and pleasant to take, Pressure-Dyne is safe for the most delicate person
and is most efficient in its action, as this letter indicates.
Gremorne, Sydney,
ZJ,/9rS9.
I have been suffering from High Blood Pressure for several years, with severe head pains
and insomnia. Since taking Pressure-Dyne, however, I have noticed a great improvement.
1 have not had a sick or dizzy turn, or the slightest headache for six weeks, and I get a good
night’s rest every night, thanks to the Pressure-Dyne berries.
It has been really wonderful for the insomnia.
MRS. D. GRAHAM.
The excellence of Pressure-Dyne in High Blood Pressure, for soothing the nerves and in cases of
insomnia, is well known, and it soon brings the High Pressure down to a safe level.
Sufficient Pressure-Dyne for six weeks’ continuous treatment costs only 20/-. If you can’t call
and get it personally from Mr. Rogers, all you have to do is to pin a £1 note to this
advertisement, with your name and address, and send it to Mr. W. J. Rogers, Chemist, George
Street, Sydney, opposite the G.P.0., and Pressure-Dyne will reach you by return mail, with full
directions for use; [or by V.P. Post if desired].
IRISH LINENS
'»•
Send for our
New FREE
CATALOGUE
No. F2O.
ROBINJON tt <LE AVER
LIMITED. BELFAST..
Or from P.O. BOX No. 1072, PERTH. W.A.
whom he met during his roamings wondered
and guessed at his age, at times swayed in
their guesses by the grey-tinged lock of hair
above his left temple, and as suddenly
turned the other way by his extremely
boyish smile.
The squareness of his shoulders struck
one first; and when attention was given to
his tanned, classical face, his brown hair, his
big-boned body and limbs, the critic always
was forced to return to the shoulders for
comparison. He had a peculiar method of
wriggling them when speaking, just as if his
clothes did not fit him, as though the
shackles of civilisation were difficult to him.
Very few people could look him squarely
in the face. His eyes were unreadable, until
his face broke with a smile and lit them up.
In his calm and serious moments they held
their object with the tenacity of an eagle.
To many people Jim Walters was a deep
mystery; and being slightly uncertain in
some of his movements, and rather silent in
his manner, he was criticised in many
circles where his name would not be men-
tioned otherwise. By person and repute he
was known generally throughout the length
and breadth of Queensland. He appeared
to wander at will, taking a position as a
station-hand when funds were low, and
travelling on again
with his fine horses
when in pocket.
Children gave him
credit for numerous
war medals. They
said he had been in
the Secret Service;
had been a famous
aviator; had served
in the Navy in charge
of a giant submarine.
Cloncurry seemed to
be his headquarters
town. At times he
wandered away south-
west or south-east,
even touching at the
sea side, sometimes
going on to Sydney
or Melbourne; but
always he seemed to
drift back into Clon-
curry in some unex-
pected manner.
Situated almost five
hundred miles from
the eastern" coast,
Cloncurry seemed to
be the dividing line
between the “Great
West,"' the west of
great spaces, and the
“Middle West,”
where civilisation had
cut the land up into
smaller holdings, rang-
ing from a few hun-
dred acres up to hun-
dreds of thousands of
acres yet to be broken
up.
Thus it was that a
setting sun cast a
queer red reflection
on the back of Jim
Walters’s khaki shirt
as he rode in from
the Northern Terri-
tory border. He rode
down ’to Cloncurry
between high, rocky
hills. Rain had fallen,
and the surrounding
scenery seemed more
mountainous and more coastal in its
greenery than ever he had seen it before.
A few miles back no rain had fallen for just
under two years. Cloncurry had been
blessed with a sudden storm which had been
strictly local.
The setting rays were being chased from
the hollows by soft shadows of twilight.
Green grew darker green; started to fade;
black shadows spread out behind great
mineral outcrops. The Cloncurry , River
swept in a wide curve between a double
avenue of ti-trees. Its yellow, sandy bed
seemed to catch the dying light and throw
it up a little in reflection against the over-
hanging boughs.
A queer, damp coolness rose from the
ground.
Jim Walters’s six horses jogged steadily.
They knew the track. Near the crossing,
and about a mile from the township, they
turned down the river for about a quarter
of a mile, and halted beneath a great
spreading coolabah-tree. They had often
camped there. Old blackened fireplaces
showed in three or four different spots.
Through the twilight a camp-fire glowed
brightly along the bank of the river. Jim
Walters watched it for a few seconds, won-
dered who the camper was, then threw off
the packs from his horses. He would go
into the town for tea. He felt a little
thirsty, too.
As he walked towards the township his
mind wandered around subjects which had
appealed to him in abstract form all his
life. He would have made a fine art critic
had he the power to write his criticisms;
but where his tongue was fluent in fair
praise and just condemnation his pen
refused to follow his mind. Inspirations
came to him; but he had not the power to
hold them, and they were so short-lived
that he had not the time to write them
down.
His first call in Cloncurry was on Andy
Draper, who kept a tobacconist’s shop just
off the main street. Andy was reclusive,
but educated in more ways than one. His
past was a mystery to all except Jim Wal-
ters. He was of middle age, short and fat;
ugly and almost bald. He wheezed when he
“Andy wrestled with the ramrod and shifted beneath the
hanging lamp.”
spoke, and at the end of any little con-
versation he generally added his favorite
comment: “But such is life.”
Jim Walters found him cleaning an old
shotgun at the rear of his shop.
“Hullo, Andy, who are you going to blow
holes through?”
“Ah-ha, Jim!” He stretched forth a flabby
hand and wrung the one held towards him.
“Take a seat —there’s your old box. Cat’s
used it in your absence. Trust a cat to
pick a soft spot, Jim.” His eyes twinkled and
he gazed up through the dim lamplight. “Or
a woman.”
“You’re hard on the women, Andy.”
“Cause to be—cause to be; but such is
life. And where have you been, Jim? And
where’s Sandy Jackson —the divil? Close
on six months since I’ve seen either of
you.”
“Just the usual,” Jim Walters answered.
“Sandy went south to get married or some-
thing. Got restless and cleared. I’ve
been up to Normanton, down again to the
Cuthbert, and just blown in from away out
past Boulia. Kept buzzing around a bit.
How’s business?”
“Slack, Jim, slack. They should rub the
word out of the dictionary. It’s gone out
of date.” Andy wrestled with the ramrod
and shifted beneath the hanging lamp.
Behind his glistening head a tall case of
rare books indicated the use to which he
put his leisure hours.
Jim Walters rose and stood before the
old bookcase. He examined the volumes.
“I picked up a book beneath a tree on
the Rankine River,” he said. “It’s a puzzle
to me how it got there. I brought it in for
you. ‘An Analysis of Criminal Heritage,’
and it’s fine reading.”
They talked of people about the town;
and from a cupboard Andy Draper brought
forth whisky and glasses.
“You have something on your mind?”
Jim Walters said as he poured out a nip.
“Yes—well, I have, and I haven’t. We
get to thinking things. I went for a long
walk the other Sunday.”
“Yes?”
“The people next door had bought one of
those cheap gramophones. Why can’t
people get a proper realisa-
tion of music? That’s why
I went for a walk—to argue
that out. I went out near
the Black Mountain, and I
planned a great open-air
amphitheatre. I planned
music as it should be”
“But how?”
“T h e music
of the world.
Natural music.
The music
which is all
around us, but which people cannot hear
because very few of them know what real
music is. That’s what I planned.”
“And you would bring this—this mythical
music to a reality?”
“Exactly, provided I could obtain a natu-
ral setting.”
“I’m afraid you would never do it,” Jim
Walters argued, “because music, perfect
music, is only a product of the imagination.”
“I don’t understand.”
Jim Walters leant eagerly forward. His
eyes glistened, and his strong hands were
clenched tight across his knees.
“Now, Andy, you’ve been to hear a great
singer—a player, perhaps?”
“Both.”
“And which did you enjoy more—the
actual performance, or your reflection after-
wards?”
Andy Draper puffed at his dirty pipe.
“I should say the reflection following,”
he answered slowly, “because it is always
within recall. The actual performance is
never more than a matter of an hour or
two.”
“And the quality of the music? Was the
quality of the music greater during the
actual performance than when you recon-
structed it?”
“No, it was less.”
“My point,” Jim Walters explained
eagerly, and waved a snappy finger. “Keep
music in the imagination, and it improves
with age. I’ve heard Melba and Clara
Butt, Caruso, Battasini and Peter Dawson.
I’ve heard Paderewski three times during
his prime. I’ve listened to Jascha Heifetz
and Mischa Elman; and in each instance
I have gone with the intention of stealing
something which belonged to the artist.
It seems a queer way of putting things;
but it’s true. I’ve carried the full pro-
gramme away with me in my imagination;
and when alone I have called the items
back, pulled the artist’s conception to
pieces, and built it all up afresh. Pure
music only exists in the imagination.
Music can be held in the mind; but it loses
a great deal of its purity in its journey from
the mind to the open world.”
Andy Draper smoked heavily before he
spoke.
“And what is the point you wish me to
remember?” he asked with a smile.
“That, in its concrete form, music is at
its worst.”
Somewhere in the night outside the horn
of a car sounded harshly.
“Strange horn that,” Andy declared
crisply. “Not much music in that—eh?”
The car appeared to
have stopped, some-
where close handy.
A loud voice cried
through the night. It
caused both men to sit
bolt upright.
“Timbuctoo! Tim-
buc-too!
Where are you?
Doodle-oodle-oodle-
oodle-oo!”
Someone shouted a
quick answer; and
then the voice came
again.
“Any of you beer-
hummin’ side-kickers
want a drink —hurry
up—it’s Mr. Pratten’s
shout! Wa-aa-hoo-
oo!”
“It’s Sandy Jack-
son!” Andy Draper
peered forward in
astonishment.
“Sandy Jackson—
back again!” Jim
Walters declared al-
most breathlessly.
“When he was go-
ing away with you he
said he was off
ever. Why didn’t he
die, Jim?” Andy
Draper exclaimed,
frowned heavily and
crossed his short legs viciously.
Jim Walters rose from his seat. He
walked towards the front door of the little
tobacconist’s shop. His face was eager,
and his eyes were sparkling strangely.
“Sandy Jackson?” he yelled and paused
a second. “Where the devil are you?”
CHAPTER VI.
Sandy Finds Another Job.
Sandy Jackson stopped still in, the road.
His mouth dropped open a little, and Mr.
Pratten watched him closely.
“Did you hear that bird callin’ me?”
Sandy exclaimed.
“What bird?”
In answer to Mr. Pratten’s mystified ques-
tion the summons sounded again from the
rear of the building.
“Sandy Jackson!”
Sandy’s face seemed transformed. He
jumped a foot into the air, placed his hands
to his mouth and yelled:
“Here—you blind cow! In front of the
pub!”
Jim Walters strode out from the darkness
of a narrow lane. His hand was held out
eagerly. It was taken and wrung heartily.
(Continued on next page.)


Aristocracy
in chinaware
’ JNTOUCHED by the
brush,confident
in its own beauty of form and
modelling, the Shelley China
distinguished as “Dainty
White” has a still higher
claim to aristocratic, indeed
royal, rank. The brilliant
purity of the white body —
English Bone China of
, Shelley grade—would make
any less noble ware look
dingy beside it.
A
SK to see the
SHELLEY
LATEST
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets*
Morning Sets
Dainty White
'• China
Nursery Warb
iy Lucie Attweu
£• Hilda Cowham
Dome stic Ware
Jelly Moulds
ytuyu
e
THE PATRIOT
DIRECT MEDIUM Tg WOMEN ]
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
Undeniable!
No advertising scheme
for Queensland can be
really effective without
the aid, as a first con-
si d e r a t i o n, of the
columns of
“The Telegraph”
Queen and Elizabeth
Streets, BRISBANE
Three Editions:
12 Noon 3 p.m.
3 p.m.
The very latest news
that it is possible to
obtain is in “The
Telegraph.”
“The Woman’s Mirror”
Published every Monday
PRICE 3d.
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
Quiet —Restful—Cool—Open to the Summer Sea Breezes. With Private Beach and Amphitheatre
Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spaeious Grounds and Garage
Accommodation.
Tariff from 4| guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines).
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your fancy, write
to the Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
“IXL” Carbide
When forwarding your next order for Carbide
insist on being supplied with
“IXL” Brand.
It is manufactured in Australia
and is guaranteed by the manufacturers to be
at least equal to the British Acetylene
Association standard quality.
When using “IXL” Brand you are helping an
all-Australian industry to flourish.
If unable to obtain from your supplier
write direct to the undersigned:
H. Jones & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
HOBART, TASMANIA, Sole Distributing Agents
For
The Australian Commonwealth Carbide Co., Ltd.,
Electrona, Tasmania.
DISTRIBUTORS FOR N.S.W.:
ALLEN-LIVERSIDGE, LTD., Hutchison Street, Annandale.
BRANDTS, LTD., 236 Pitt Street, Sydney.
GARDNER-WAERN & CO. PTY., LTD., 225 Clarence Street, Sydney.
NOYES BROS, LTD., Clarence Street, Sydney.
“You damn sinner,” he exclaimed. “But,
Sandy, you’re thin! And that coat —what
happened?”
“Booze an’ no shillin’s, James. Been to
Brisbane to see all the big heads. Y’ought
to see the new Town Hall. Big? As big
as a two-acre tailin’ yard an’ as high as
four, five, six win’mills. How’s yourself?
Here—meet me friend what owns anew
car. Mr. Pratten, this is Jim Walters, used
to be Cap’n Walters on Gallipoli an’ France.
An’ how’re you keepin’, James? No female
got you yet?”
“No, Sandy. I don’t come up to the
mark.” There was a twinkle in Walters’s
eye ;
“They’re cows of things, girls,” Sandy
declared cheerfully. “I got took down by
one in Brisbane. Got all me money an’ then
says as how her heart was thumpin’ cruel
for another bird what had a motor-car.
An’ I’m thirsty, an’ I ain’t got a bean.”
“Then we’ll have drinks,” Walters said
quickly. “Mr. Pratten, we’ll enjoy your
company.”
Mr. Pratten beamed. He felt excited.
Somehow the dimly-lit hotel breathed of
mystery and adventure. This was the West.
The spirits of pioneers seemed to lurk
everywhere. Old bullock-drivers seemed to
be present; great past stockriders; the
ghosts of pioneers.
They pushed in between creaking doors.
The interior was a little brighter—not
much. A powdered barmaid laughed shrilly
at their entrance, and chirpily slapped a
man across the face with a wet glass-towel.
“San-dy Jackson!” she almost screamed.
“Jim Walters, too! I thought you were both
dead. Sandy, you look thin, and where did
you get that dance-suit? We can’t let this
go, boys. Drinks on the house!”
She bobbed behind the counter, and rose
again.
“Shout out, boys; what’ll you have?”
From behind a framework of shelves and
supports a tall man entered the bar at the
other end. He paused and then came
forward.
“Hullo, hullo, what’s this?” he exclaimed
and approached nearer. “The terrible com-
bination again. Joined forces once more?”
He shook hands and then glanced at Mr.
Pratten.
“Here’s me friend Mr. Pratten,” Sandy
said eagerly. “Here, Prat., this is me friend
Mr. Hinton. Now shake; that’s the style.
Hey, Lottie, come an’ meet Mr. Pratten;
an’ Mr. Hinton’s goin’ to have a glass on
the house, too!”
“Here’s to Cloncurry—and its people,”
Mr. Pratten toasted a minute later. He
drank and, getting in quickly, added: “Fill
’em up again, Miss—er—Miss Lottie.”
“L ou and Sandy are the two very men
I’m looking for,”- Mr. Hinton declared
firmly and looked questioningly at Jim
Walters. “Got any work on hand?”
Both Walters and Sandy Jackson shook
their heads.
“Can you get out to Boolgooroo by Fri-
day?”
“Yes, I can,” Jim Walters replied. “What’s
the job?”
“I wan’t you as head-stockman, Jim; and
Jackson can go with you as stockman—
though, by jove, Sandy, any monkey tricks
and I’ll feed you on gelignite. You both
know the way out, and I suppose Jim’ll lend
you a nag, Sandy.”
“How about, takin’ Mr. Pratten with us?”
Sandy asked, eagerly. “A year on Boolgoo-
roo an’ he’d go back to his missus with
devil written all over his dial.”
“I think travelling for machinery is more
congenial to me than stockwork,” Mr. Prat-
ten smiled.
“You’ll find it worth while going off your
track to pay us a friendly visit, Mr. Prat-
ten,” Hinton added courteously. “The
friends of my friends are always welcome.
You’ll come some time, I guess.”
“Certainly,” Mr. Pratten beamed. .“I’ll
make a note of it.”
“And stay when you come, Mister,” Sandy
added. “You don’t know what station life
is. No, hell you don’t. You city coves—
you never see sunrises like we get out
on Boolgooroo. You never see sunrises
what splashes roses an’—an’ red-inky colors
all over the sky like stripes all mixed up.
Not on your life, Mister, you don’t! You
can’t take all your clothes off in Brisbane
an’ swim about in the waterholes. You
can on Boolgooroo. An’ the tucker’s good.
The flies is passable. You can’t get on a
nag an’ go hell-for-leather in Brisbane as
drunk as any flamin’ owl. Them cops
down there don’t stand for it, Mister,
they don’t. "Vou got to keep on goin’ round
an’ round corners in Brisbane. Out on Bool-
gooroo there’s trees you can' go an’ lie
under for hours, an’ no coppers to tell you
to move on, please. Aw—you don’t know
Boolgooroo, Mister. She’s the shiny shillin’.
She puts blood into your veins. There’s a
pub about twenty mile south of the home-
stead. The barmaid ain’t over-old. She’s
a fair character, she is. What about it,
Mister, eh—roll your swag an’ come with
us! Bring the old ’bus if you like. Do for
shootin’ turkeys out of, an’ we’ll look after
it. What about it? We’ll make a stock-
man out of you, or bust?”
“I’m afraid I can’t,” Mr. Pratten answered
genially.
Sandy wriggled closer. His face was
eager.
“Fill ’em up again,” he said to the bar-
maid. .“Mr. Hinton’ll pay for ’em an’ dock
it out of me wages. I got a job now.
Now look here, Mr. Pratten. You come with
us an’ we’ll see you have a rip-snortin’
time. I’ll open all the gates for your ’bus.
e
The Valley’s Sleep.
A black and massive shadow fills
The valley everywhere,
While subtle scent each leaf outspills
Upon the dewy air.
From farmhouse chimneys smoke upwreathes
And passes pallidly;
A sense of peace the scene oulbreathes
Of earned tranquillity.
Within the furrow lies the plough,
The ploughman rest has won—-
Salt, sweat of toil upon his brow,
His day of work well done.
No sound is there, no noise is heard
The muted hour to mar,
Except the call of some night bird
That hunting flies afar
Above tall pines of shadowed green
Above cliffs scarred and worn;
High flung in paling skies is seen
A new moon’s silver horn.
O’er field and farm and river-bed,
Cliff-wall and timbered steep,
Night broods with mighty wings outspread—•
The valley falls asleep.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


BY APPOINTMENT.
THINK
before you drink
there is only one best, and it is Gordon’s
The name “ GORDON ” guarantees the very
highest standard of quality and absolute purity;
a reputation enjoyed and jealously guarded for
over 150 years.
Gordon’s Gin is produced in London, England, by the
original process of distillation from the original recipe,
the secrets of which belong to the HOUSE of GORDON
and have been handed down through generations ! It
is for this reason Gordon’s Gin has the largest sale at
Home and throughout the World, having no rival for
Purity or Quality.
ordcsmii^
GIN
m
WHITEST
PUREST
& BEST
4*
m
Gordons
DRY GIN
k
The Heart
of a good
cocktail
Guaranteed
distilled in
London, England
The Largest
Gin Distillers
in the World
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
Missing Friends.
MORTON, FREDERICK ESDAILE, son
of late Sarah and George Leopold Mor-
ton, born Hobart, Tasmania, 1858, left Mel-
bourne, Victoria, 1866 with father. Will
anyone possessing knowledge of the above
please communicate with the TRUSTEES
EXECUTORS & AGENCY CO., LTD., 412
Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Wanted known whereabouts of
Clarke, about 30 years ago news-
agent at West Maitland and later assisted
married daughter in newsagency business in
Market Street, Sydney.—l9s The Bulletin
Office.
jMORELLI.—It is desired for estate pur-
poses to trace Mrs. Elizabeth Morelli,
the daughter of Francis Maybury, or her
relatives, who should communicate with
Rider Heaton, Meredith and Mills, 8 New
Square, Lincoln’s Inn, London, England.
If any illustration in Tiie Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Don’t Lose What You’ve Got
The future is uncertain. Numerous companies are
showing greatly-reduced profits.
Prices of many investments have fallen.
The wise man will watch his little lot.
You may have everything in insurance policies. All
the more reason to see the offices are sound. There
are offices that are not sound.
The leading Australian authority on all these
matters is
“THE ‘WILD CAT’ MONTHLY”
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM, 22/6. From news-
agents, or “Bulletin” Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
ANGORA and
CHINCHILLA
RABBITS
as a Hobby
as a Sideline
as a Business
as an Investment
Send 1/6 for the RABBIT BOOK (for
Beginners), to the Secretary, P.O. Box
1487, Auckland, N.Z.
All pedigree stock finest
woollers and pelters delivered
C.I.F. Sydney. Angoras and
Chinchillas, buck or doe. Adult
breeding stock, £lO each; 10-
12 weeks old, £3/15/- each.
Cash with Order-
Strict Rotation.
An early start means
everything.
FUR FARMS
LTD.
(incorporating the Industrial Rabbit
Breeders’ Co-op. Association and
affiliated with the British Fur Rabbit
Society). Sole Australian Agents,
Northfield Chinchillas, Royal Powder
Puff Angoras. Offices, 212-213 Southern
Cross Buildings, Auckland, N.Z.
Model Farm, Mangere, Auckland, N.Z.
Wires and cables, “Heyfitz,” Auckland,
N.Z.
BL&RE
Get this book
T »fAT
m<3
™ksu r
WfeS®
IT COSTS YOU NOTHING—
YOU MUST READ IT.
It tells you everything about High
Blood-Pressure and, most important
of all, how YOU may adjust it, and
live a longer and happier life. Many
of the most serious ills of life are
caused by unchecked “High Blood-
Pressure.”
Remember, Normal Blood-Pressure
means longer life. Fill in the coupon
for your FREE copy of the “Sal-Ros
Treatise on High Blood-Pressure,”
and post it to-day.
DO IT NOW
r - FREE COUPON
Please forward me your Free Book entitled “The
Sal-Ros Treatise on High Blood Pressure? I enclose
3d. in stamps to cover postage.
Name
Address
State
The SAL-ROS PROPRIETARY LlMlTED.York-
shire House, Spring Street, Sydney. P.O.Box*
3556 RR. G.P.O. Sydney.
Educational.
SCOTCH COLLEGE,
TORRENS PARK, MITCHAM, S.A.
A BOARDING and DAY SCHOOL for
Boys. Headmaster, N. M. G. Gratton,
8.A., Dip. Ed. (Melbourne). Professional,
Commercial and Agricultural Courses.
Prospectus and further particulars may be
obtained from the Headmaster or the Sec-
retary, W. D. C. Paton, F.C.A. (Aust.),
A.M.P. Chambers, Adelaide.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to Tmwo.


MICK SIMMONS
Feature Some
Speciality
Fines from
Several
Departments!
GYMNASIUM
COMBINATION
OUTFIT
Embraces Swing, Trapeze Bar,
, Roman Rings.
A splendid new idea that will give lots of
fun and good health to the whole family.
Made from very durable materials. Intro-
duced by Mick Simmons.
Boys’ and Girls’ Outfits . . 12/6
Youths’ Outfits 18/6
Adults’ Outfits 37/6
(Tostage Extra.)
“CORONET”
CAMERAS
The Cheapest Guaranteed
Roll Film Camera!
Fitted with “Rap-Sure” Meniscus Lens,
Time and Instantaneous Shutter, 2-Stop
Diaphragm, Reflex View-finder, and Direct
Vision View-finder. A wonderful little
Camera, perfect in detail and craftsman-
ship, embodying the most modern ideas in
simple picture making. Made in England.
Size x 1 fin. Price ... 0/6
Size 3jin. x 2£in. . Fitted with a t
Rectilinear Lens. Price It//"
(Postage Extra.)
For the Surf!
DUCK LIFEBUOY
eaches the young idea how to swim and
lords them endless enjoyment in the
irf. Strongly made and easily __ .
flated l"/“
(Postage Extra.)
A new Angle on
Shaving!
CLARK
iOfpJo
1 TWIN EDGE
Safety Razor
BLADE
Packet of lO 1/6
(Postage extra.)
A genuine high-quality safety blade accu-
rately hardened and tempered, and made
from the finest razor-blade steel. Each
blade carries the guarantee that it has
been thoroughly tested and inspected be-
fore wrapping.
MICK SIMMONS Ltd.
Headquarters: 720 Haymarket,
Sydney.
The Solution
to the Gift Problem,
and a Merry Xmas for all !
A “SPARKLET”-the very gift-appre-
ciated by everybody.
Why wonder what to give a “Sparklet”
is sure to please. It enters into the
Christmas Spirit and everyone will delight
in the delicious soda fountain drinks it
makes so quickly and easily anywhere.
“Sparklet” Syphons, Bulbs and Spare Parts are
obtainable from all leading stores, chemists, and
hardware merchants.
ICES AND ICE-CREAM SODAS.—A “Sparklet” enables you
to make delicious ice-creams in a household refrigerator. Write
for leaflet and recipes.
gTOlMlif
SYPHONS fit BULBS
“C” Syphons (Quart Size), 10/6 each
“C” Bulbs 3/9 “C” Bulbs 1/11
Per Box of Twelve Per Box of Six
(Country prices slightly
higher owing to freight
charges.)
SK s
trims
m
m
5$
Australian Depot & Repair Dept.: SPARKLETS LIMITED, G.P.O. Box 753 G, Sydney, N.S.W.
Stuart Crystal is made by hand — slowly, lovingly
and with masterly skill. If the name STUART is
etched[on a piece .oi glass that piece will delight you
all your days with its exquisite beauty. More, your
children and their children will share
your joy, with gratitude and pride in
your taste, knowing that they have
an authentic product oi Stuarts oi
Stourbridge.
.
mmm
■B
m
mm
Pm
mm f
\''l
■ it '
3MP
j||||||Pg*j^J^
in
/<v v _ "
<> -- 4 * * i
■ : "l:
; i 1
m
y»
mm
mmM
*
n
English Crystal
Obtainable wherever beautiful glass is sold
Amusements.
QYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
*-> J. c. WILLIAMSON. LTD.
Xl'g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Trank T
HER MAJESTY’S: SHOW BOAT.
CRITERION: '.LOMBARDI, LTD.
PALACE:
J.C.W. WORLD’S ENTERTAINERS^
DICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
1 c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
**• MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
THEATRE ROYAL:
HOLD EVERYTHING.
I N G 7 S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
WHOOPEE.
N
E W
COMEDY THEATRE,
LEON GORDON in
BREWSTER’S MILLIONS.
HOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
CHARLES FARRELL and JANET GAYNOR in
LUCKY STAR, .
A Fox Movietone Talking Picture.
EDDIE QUILLAN, ROBERTS
and ALBERT VAUGHAN m
NOISY NEIGHBORS
(Talking and Sound).
’LI/ IRTH BROS.’ CIRCUS.
Greatest Show on Earth.
GRAND JUBILEE YEAR.
OLYMPIA, MELBOURNE.
Positively closing November 19.
ALL NEW ATTRACTIONS.
Including the Greatest Pure White Polar and Brown
Bear Act in the World, at a cost of £5OOO.
Positively seen at Every Performance.
Prices: 2/-, 3/-, H-, 6/-; Chairs, 6/-', plus tax.
Reserved Chairs, 8/-, plus tax.
Plan at Glen’s.
Nightly at 8.
Matinees: SATURDAY, WEDNESDAY and all
Mau tTOT.TDAYS.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
Australia and the British
Commonwealth
By the Hon. J. G. LATHAM,
K.C., M.A., LL.B., Attorney-
General of the Commonwealth of
Australia. [lmmediately.
The Sovereignty of the British
Dominions
By. A. BERRIEDALE KEITH,
D.C.L., D.Litt., Regius Professor
of Sanskrit and Comparative
Philology in the University of
Edinburgh. About I Bs. net.
[lmmediately.
The Post-war Unemployment
Problem
By Prof. HENRY CLAY, M.A.,
author of The Problem of
Industrial Relations, etc., Bs. 6d.
net.
NEW NOVELS.
Hans Frost
By HUGH WALPOLE.
[Dominions Edition.
“Shapely arid full of life.”—Spectator.
Whiteoaks
By MAZO de la ROCHE, author
of ‘‘Jalna,” the famous novel
which won the ‘‘A tlan t i c
Monthly” prize of 10,000 dol-
lars. The new book carries on
the history of the Whiteoak
family. [Empire Library.
Selected Poems: Lyrical and
Narrative
By W. B. YEATS. 7s. 6d. net.
To be Obtained from alt
Booksellers.
MACMILLAN & CO., LTD,
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.


WHAT DOES SPENDING COST?
How much does it cost you to spend £100? The answer is
£1 00 down and at least £4 per annum for the rest of your life.
Yet what man would knowingly spend £lOO that put him
under obligation to pay £4 per year for life.
None, perhaps, but many do it unconsciously when they spend
money that might otherwise have earned interest at 4 per
cent, indefinitely.
Every pound you spend has attached to it an invisible string
of pennies which you spend with it.
Keep your money in a Savings Account and earn, not spend,
4 per cent, interest per annum.
iUbimonwealtb Savmos Bank of Bustralia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
DO YOU WANT TO ENTER A PROFESSION?
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and enter
a profession where there is a certainty of employment are advised to send for
our Prospectus. Iflere is one profession where the supply is not equal to the
demand. NOW is the time to begin.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
ytuyu
Head
Office,
Brisbane.
THE EQUITABLE LIFE
Assurance Company of Australasia, Ltd.
N.S.W. Office: 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Officer.36o Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company issues every variety of Probate, Whole
Xiife, Endowment, Children’s Endowment, Combined
Benefits (All Sicknesses) and Personal Accident Policy.
Policies provide for payment of Hospital Expenses in
lump sum or partial disability, and for cessation of
premiums on total disability. Secure full particulars from
any of the Company’s offices.
FKEDK. LEVY, Managing Director.
Not Guilty.
CAPTAIN GILBERT C. FRY
TELLS THIS FINE STORY OF A SEA
MYSTERY.
THE dozen good men and true had been
unable to come to anything like unani-
mous decision. For some hours since the
Judge had sent them to tlieir deliberations
they had thrashed the matter out. Twice
they had returned to the court-room for the
elucidation of some knotty point. Much
argument for and against had been used,
but all to no purpose. So, united in their
disunion, they were locked up for the night.
“It’s no use,” said the foreman wearily
as the door closed upon them. “We’ll never
agree. I’m giving up. The evidence is so
evenly balanced. Personally, I’m satisfied
the man is guilty, and yet—oh, I don’t
know. Anyhow, I’m not saying one word
more about it. It’s too much for me.”
One or two of the others expressed them-
selves similarly and drew apart, where they
began to discuss sport or politics.
“This circumstantial evidence is a risky
thing to handle,” remarked a serious-looking
man who had given undivided attention to
the case all through. “I’m afraid to con-
demn a man. The fact is, I’m not cut out
to serve on a jury. It may be weak of
me; I suppose it is. But I had an experi-
ence years ago that has left its mark.”
The demeanor of the man had impressed
most of the others, so they crowded around
and asked for the story. It might give their
fuddled brains a rest, anyway.
“Very well,” he answered, “I’ll do it;
it, at any rate, will explain why I’m no good
in a jury-box.
“In my young days I was a seaman. In
fact, I followed the sea until I was nearly
thirty. Then, meeting my fate here in
Sydney, I swallowed the anchor and got
a shore job.
“It was about ’95 that I was making my
first voyage as a.b. I’d gone through the
various grades. Started as boy in coasting
schooners; then ordinary seaman in wool-
clippers and Swansea copper-ore ships.
Feeling fit and able for a man’s job then, I
had to find a skipper willing to take me.
So, being anxious to get away to sea, I took
the first thing that offered. It was the
barque Crossington bound from Cardiff to
Santos, a place which at that time nobody
in his sober senses wanted to visit. It was
a hotbed of yellow fever. There were notices
in all the shipping offices advising seamen
not to be too eager in signing on for that
part of Brazil. However, a light purse, a
light heart and my first berth as a.b. made
me game to face Yellow Jack or anything
else that might come along.
“The Crossington was a vessel of 1100
tons or so, and there were eight of us
for’ard, a couple of apprentices housed amid-
ships and a boy from off a training-ship,
one of those hulks moored in the Thames
where London’s homeless waifs find refuge,
to be turned out in a couple of years as
embryo sailors or soldiers. Not a bad kid
was young George; but I’m afraid that his
childhood, spent in an atmosphere of vil-
lainy. was a sad handicap. I’ll tell you
more about him later.
“We were very comfortable aboard the
Crossington, and if we weren’t happy it was
our own fault. Seldom have I come across
better men than the skipper and the two
mates. The food was as good as one could
expect on a ‘limejuicer,’ and we were well
treated in every way. Of course, there was
Santos to look forward to, and one of our
number, Walker by name, was a confirmed
croaker. He used to hearten us up by tell-
ing us that there were at least a dozen
ships lying in Santos without a soul aboard.
All gone; Yellow Jack. He said that pro-
bably half of us would go too. A very
cheerful shipmate was Walker.
“One source of amusement we had was
watching the bitter enmity between two
of the fellow's, Bastable and Waters. Both
young and active, they were really very
good specimens. Ambitious, too. They both
held second-mate’s certificates, which were
then, as perhaps they are still, rather a
drug in the market. I have an idea that
they had both shipped for Santos in the
hope of getting a chance aboard some one
or other of the ships lying there with de-
pleted crew's. Not a bad notion either, be-
cause one might carry a ticket a long while
in the Old Country without being asked to
produce it. Well I know it. Somebody or
other said that ‘Hope deferred maketh the
heart sick.’ If it wasn’t a second mate v'ho
said it first, second mates have said it many
a time since.
“Well, Bastable and Waters were sworn
enemies. There was a girl at the bottom
of it —there generally is. They fought every
second night, but, being evenly matched, they
did no particular good except to afford us
some fun in the dogwatch. You’d rarely
see them without a black eye or damaged
nose.
Another relaxation we had was trying to
teach young George that honesty is the best
pcdicy. The little beggar would collar any-
thing. Thieving was in his bones —heredi-
tary, I suppose. Anyhow, not even the
laying on of hands could cure him.
“We worked down towards the Equator
in pretty fair time, and then we fell into
the calm belt. We had close on three weeks
of doldrum weather —a puff of air, a rain
squall and then flat calm again. We were
sick and tired of chasing the wind, hauling
the yards round half a dozen times in a
watch. It was a trying time for all hands.
We became cranky and hated the sight of
one another.
“One Sunday evening Bastable was lying
in his bunk, thinking, no doubt, of the girl
he had left behind him. Reaching up to his
shelf he found a bundle of old letters and
a photograph. Just then Waters chanced
to enter the fo’c’s’le. With a curse he
snatched the picture out of Bastable’s hand.
In two seconds there was skin and hair
flying. We were about full up of their ever-
lasting squabbling by this time, so we man-
handled them and got them apart. A job
it was, too. Glaring at each other and
breathing fierce threats, the two young fel-
low's gave us all we could do to hold them.
However, we were interrupted. A squall had
worked up and we got a call ‘All hands on
deck.’ A proper man-eater of a squall it
was. The barque had been under all plain
sail when it struck her, and we had to strip
her to lower-tops’ls. Two mortal hours of
it before we had everything snug.
“It was my watch below, and as a good
slice of it was already gone into the past, I
thought I’d turn in and get some rest. The
watch oil deck were busy coiling up gear
and generally making ready for the spell of
bad weather that was promising. I’d just
got to the lee-door of the house, and was
taking off my oilskin coat and sou’-wester
to give them a shake so as not to make the
fo’c’s'le any wetter than it was already,
when I heard a scuffle, hasty words, a blow
and a fall. Almost at my feet it was. Then
rose on the night, above the whistling of
the wind in the rigging, above the roar and
tumble of the seas as they lopped in over
the weather rail, a scream, such a scream
as can only mean Qne thing. I stepped
quickly into the house, unhooked the lamp
off the bulkhead and looked out to see —
death. The lamp blew out almost at once,
for there was wind, and plenty of it, but
I saw enough. Waters was on his back at
the door of the cook’s room adjoining the
galley, Bastable standing over him. And
a stream of blood poured across the wet,
sloping deck into the scupper-way.
“Bastable’s face was white, and there was
a look of agonised wonderment written
upon it.
“ ‘What the hell have you been doing?’
I said as I threw the useless lamp inside
the dooi\
“ ‘I —I don’t know,’ replied Bastable, who
was seemingly dazed. ‘I knocked him down
and he seems hurt. For God’s sake see
what’s the matter.’
“Along came the two mates, each with a
lighted lantern. They’d heard the scream —
everybody aboard heard it. There was a
murmuring, terrified circle round us in a
moment.
“ ‘Seems hurt, does he?’ said the mate
holding his lantern so that its light fell full
upon Waters’s blanched face. ‘I should say
so. The man’s been stabbed.’
“Tbe second mate had bent down. He
looked up and said gravely, ‘Yes, and stabbed
to death.’
“It was true. Before we could do any-
thing Waters gasped and was gone.
“ ‘Give me a hand, one of you men. We’Jl
turn the poor fellow over and then we’ll
see—what we shall see.’ The second mate’s
voice was shaky. And so were liis hands
as I knelt down and assisted him.
“Gently we rolled the lifeless body over.
There we saw a sheath-knife buried to the
hilt between his shoulder-blades. Bastable
gave a pitiful cry and reeled as if he were
about to fall. The knife reeking with
Waters’s life-blood dropped to the grating.
“ ‘Whose knife is this?’ asked Mr. Sams,
the mate, picking it up.
“Needless to ask. Hadn’t we all seen
and laughed at it scores of times? For
Bastable, fancying himself, had made the
handle a thing of beauty with grafting
and Turks' heads. Many a time we had
joked him about it. I had cause enough to
recognise it, for it was under my tuition he
had covered the haft with twine hitching.
We call it grafting—or, rather, we used to;
it is seldom seen nowadays.
“There was eagerness in the two or three
voices which gave the answer, ‘lt’s Bas-
table’s, sir.’
“ ‘You murderer!’ said the mate to the
man who stood as if rooted to the spot.
“ ‘As God is my judge, sir. I didn’t do
it,’ Bastable answered; his voice sounded
strained and unnatural, as well it might.
‘I haven’t had that knife since the night
before last. I lost it.’
“ ‘Very likely, indeed!’ responded the
mate. ‘Well, we’ll take care of you till Judge
and jury pass their opinion. I’ve formed
mine already.’ With a short laugh, in which
there was no mirth, he turned to the second
mate. ‘Mr. Seymour, take one of the men
with you—Stanton here will do —and lock
this man up in the empty room aft. If he's
inclined to make trouble we’ll clap the irons
on him at once. I'll go along and bring the
captain.’
“Mr. Seymour beckoned to me. Bastable
seemed to shrink up into himself as we
went over to him. Agony, mortal agony,
was in the eyes he turned to us.
“ ‘Oh,’ he cried, ‘won’t you believe me,
Mr, Seymour? And you, Stanton? Yon
know I’d rather have died ten times over
than do that.’
“The second mate had hard work to find
his voice. ‘Bastable,’ he said, ‘come along.’
“I looked round as I laid my hand on
the man’s shoulder. A ring of hard faces.
Not one look of pity. Nothing but the
horror and detestation of it all. The appren-
tice boys whispering together, the cook and
the Russian Finn carpenter staring in
solemn silence. George, the training-ship
boy, peering round the courier of the house,
looking livid and ghastly in the lantern light.
“We marched aft. There was a vacant
room under the boat-skids. The captain
met us at the door.
“ ‘Put him in here for the night. You,
Stanton, keep guard outside ami don’t leave
your post till you are relieved.’
“Bastable was pushed inside And the door
locked upon him. I, being appointed gaoler,
stood there throughout the long lMght. The
wind freshened and the sea rose. Now and
again a comber would come in over the
weather rail and flood the deck. The work
of the ship was done as it came along.
Wheels and lookouts were changed, but I
was out of it all. I think I was almost the
unhappiest man aboard that night. Bas-
table paced to and fro in the darkness of
the little room. I wished that I could com-
fort the poor wretch, whose sobs I could
plainly hear. Yet wasn't he a cold-blooded
murderer, and didn’t lie deserve what he
was getting? Just visible and recognisable
through the dark of the night was a shape-
less heap on the main hatch. It was
Waters’s body awaiting burial.
“At daylight the cook had coffee ready
as usual, and I left my post long enough
to run for’ard and get two mugs. I rapped
on the glass of the porthole and Bastable
opened it up.
“ ‘Cheer up,’ I said as I handed him his
coffee. ‘Hope for the best.’
“It seemed a silly thing to say. After
what I had seen the night before, why did
I say it? I don't know, unless it was be-
cause I felt pity for a man who hadn’t
given himself a chance. However, Bastable
seemed to feel his load lighten a trifle,
thanked me, and in the cold, grey dawning
I grasped his hand.
“Shortly afterwards the officers came
along, and as it suddenly struck them that
I had been on duty all night they sent me
away for a rest. Armed with iron belaying-
pins the two apprentices mounted guard, the
elder of them obviously aware of his highly
important duty, the younger making a joke
of it. He was only a boy, and boys can
find humor anywhere.
“About nine o’clock the skipper held a
sort of preliminary trial. He was seated at
the after end of the cabin table, and at the
other end stood Bastable under the .surveil-
lance of the second mate, w T ho was armed
with a revolver. One by one every man
aboard came below as he was called. It
wasn’t much any of them had to tell. The
frequent quarrels and the threats on both
sides were mentioned. The cook recounted
with gusto what he had overheard one even-
ing outside the galley. Waters had said to
Bastable. ‘-I'll have your life one of these
days.’ To which Bastable had replied, ‘l'll
see you lying dead at my feet.’ Two of the
men told of the photograph episode, the
subsequent fight and the interruption caused
by all hands being called on deck. Finally
my turn came, and I’ll never forget the im-
ploring look Bastable gave me as I- told
what I’d seen.
“Then the skipper asked the poor wretch
if lie wished to make any statement. He
pleaded, he begged them to believe that he
bad not seen the knife for a couple of days.
‘As God knows, I am innocent,’ he declared.
‘I struck Waters down. yes. I struck him
with hate in my heart, but no knife was in
my hand.’
“The captain, who was far from being a
hard man, almost sneered in the prisoner’s
face.
“‘I think it’s clear enough, Mr. Sams,
he said coldly, turning to the mate, who
was taking down the depositions. ‘Why,
Stanton’s evidence is enough to put the
rope round his neck.’
“My heart stood still to hear that, and as
I led Bastable away to lock him up again
I was a sad man. Bastable must have real-
ised it, and was man enough to tell me that
I’d told the truth, no more and no less.
Whether it was because my testimony was
so damning, or whether I seemed the most
suited for the job, I was again appointed
gaoler. I carried the meals along and
brought him his bedding and other gear.
“Of course, the murder was the one topic
aboard. Every man who passed me by as
I stood at the cell-door voiced the universal
opinion. The using of a knife was not
British. It was a trick best left for Medi-
terranean people. Condemnation on every
hand I heard. That cursed knife had killed
all pity.
“Somewhere about nine o’clock that night
I peeped through the open port. Bastable
was on his knees. lie heard me, and, get-
ting up, smiled faintly.
“‘I have no hope, Stanton,’ he ’ said,
‘Everything is against me, and I can’t see
a glimmer of light through the darkness.
I’m not blaming you at all. The gallows
will be my end, and my only wish is that
my old mother dies before our voyage is
over.’
“What could I say? I believed that he
was guilty. But to realise that my evidence
might send him to his doom was torture.
We stood at the porthole, he inside, I out-
side and almost as unhappy as Im. I got
him to tell me his version. It sounded
all fair and aboveboard; at least, it would
have convinced me if I could have forgotten
what my eyes had seen and my ears heard.
“ ‘Look here, Bastable,’ I said, ‘l’m going
to tell the truth. I must. But between
now and the time you are handed over to
the police, I will leave no stone unturned
to find something to help you.’
“He said his thanks as lie reached through
the port and grasped my hand. ‘Try to finr}
out where my knife was from Friday night
till Sunday night. I didn’t have it; I
swear it.’
(Continued on page 57.)
THE “CHRISTMAS BULLETIN.”
This year the “Christmas Bulletin” will be published on Saturday, Dec. 7.
It will be an extraordinary sixpenn’orth.
In addition to more than 20 complete stories chosen for their quality,
verses by the 20 best-known writers in Australia, and over 50 illustrations
by all the principal black-and-white artists including two full-page drawings
by Leason and Jardine and three caricatures by Low there will be a colored
supplement on art paper by B. E. Minns.
Mr. Minns, the greatest painter of the Australian aborigine, has been
engaged during the year on a set of four water-colors of the subject of
which he is the world’s undisputed master. These have been purchased by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., and the first of them, “A Northern Belle, will
be reproduced with the “Christmas Bulletin.
Notwithstanding the great expense incurred in the production of the
“Christmas Bulletin,” it will be sold at the usual price sixpence.
Orders are now being taken by newsagents throughout Australia and
Maoriland.


w
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE S HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks
- - £1,000,000
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. 0. Dawson, Sec. H. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, 6d. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Beading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
e
% i
&&&
Register
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two independent
firms of Auditors —
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further* substantial increases.
The notable success of Australian Journalism
for 1929.
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.
Übe dominion.
New Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion" is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—*
P.O. BOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from—
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Shipping, et«.
On Southern
Seas . ... or
Sunny Shores
1
m
■V,
WHETHER on board the liner
en route for Honolulu or holi-
daying on the Sunny South
Sea Isle, your enjoyment is assured.
For Hawaii is a world-famous
holiday resort, whilst the vessels
engaged in this tour the Niagara
and Aorangi are imposingly large,
wide-decked and splendidly fitted for
pleasure.
Return Excursion Tour via Auck-
land and Suva: —
£75 First Saloon; £55 Second.
Departures:
DECEMBER 12, JANUARY 9,
FEBRUARY 6.
Union Steam Ship Co.,
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne, C.l.
AUSTRALASIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE
TOT
BURNS-PHILP TODRS
JAVA
(The Wonderland of the East).
old buddhistic and hinduistic temples—native bazaars.
EXCELLENT BIG-GAME SHOOTING. BEAUTIFUL TROPICAL SCENERY.
EXTENSIVE TEA- GARDENS. INTERESTING PEOPLE.
Regular monthly sailings by the vessels
•‘MARELLA” (7500 tons) and “MALABAR (5000 tons).
The Beautiful Solomons
Full of interest and romance and situated only seven days
steaming ,n.-e. of Sydney. The comfortable and popular
S.S. MATARAM sails from Sydney on December 21, and six-
weekly thereafter, visiting 30 picturesque Island Ports.
ROUND TRIP 41 WEEKS. FARE £4l
Write for Pamphlet No. 52/S to
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LTD., 7 Bridge Street, Sydney
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1811
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
ytuyytuyuu
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20,900,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER SO. 1926, £88,982,585.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
554 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Dills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
Tshe
"BRISBANE COURIER”
IS THE GREATEST ADVERTISING
MEDIUM IN QUEENSLAND
Advertising figures have proved over years that both Local and
National fdveftisers regard the "Conner as the greatest dady
“Courier” carried almost 1000 cols,
of’'advertising, or 24,000 inches of advertising more
than its contemporary
THE “BRISBANE COURIER” IS
first in advertising
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper Co., Queen Street Brisbane.
Rep.: Robt. D. Fisher, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney. Phone: 85007
Shipping, etc.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
V combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
JThemistocles 11,500 tons, Nov. 20
*Ascanius . . 10,048 ~ Dec. 24
JEuripides . . 15,000 „ Jan. 28
*Nestor .. 15,000 „ Feb. 17
tßunic .. 12,500 „ Feb. 25
* First class only. t“Cabin” class only.
+First and third class.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd.
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson, Ltd.
) Joint
Agents
Splendid Cheap Service
Via Suez Canal-
FAST OIL BURNERS
Fares to London from £3B.
To Colombo from £22.
Special Excursion Return Tickets to
Colombo issued from Sept, to Feb., £32
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
SPACIOUS DECKS —DECK CABINS —EXCELLENT
MENU—CINEMA —DAN CE MUSIC REPRODUCED
WITH ELECTRIC AMPLIFIERS —
CANVAS SWIMMING BATH
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
5 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 86701
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. ORARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
SS WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Set*
BRISBANE.
FARES.—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/C/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp Sc Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart Parker LiM'
Magiiifioent
Fast Passenger
- Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice vena.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobm:
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER UMITiJ
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
w
If any illustration in The
your fancy, write to the Manage,
vmi for tiie-tmgliLi— ■tan


N
m
m
V
Baby JOYCE BASS-
FORD —is a real Rex-
ona baby. Her mother
w ites : “I have used
Rexona Soap for her
from birth.”
Bath Baby with Rexona Soap
A healthy baby always enjoys a bath, and Rexona Soap
makes your child a healthy baby.
It keeps his skin fresh and sweet, his scalp clean and
wholesome. Any irritation of the skin which keeps baby
awake, or makes him cross and peevish, Rexona Soap
will quickly soothe.
A refreshing bath with Rexona Soap, and gently anoint-
ing with Rexona will cool his skin, and take atvay all
discomforts, so that sleep comes naturally.
Rexona Soap with its pure, sweet emollients is suited to
baby’s delicate skin, and keeps it in the best condition.
Rexona Babies are contented babies., because they feel
well cared for and comfortable.
Price If per tablet .
REXONA.
SOAP
for Health and Beauty
RSI3R
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed- — think of
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cud
if you have
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
m
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
feRITJSH
MADE
Perfection
PIMK RUBBER
AST
“The Examiner” is Still the
Dominant and Family Newspaper
of Northern Tasmania.
It is the oldest daily newspaper in Tasmania, and the
only daily effectively covering Northern Tasmania the
same da> of publication. It is published in Launceston,
the centre of the prosperous and progressive North.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,’’ “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express' obtainable jrom ,*
W. R- Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
73-75 Patterson Street,
Launceston.
Mr. V. W. Margetts,
122 Flinders Street,
Melbourne.
Mr. W. G. Dougan,
726 Herald Building,
66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“Well lie proved to be such a reasonable
prisoner’ and to really need no watching
that I was taken oft the warder 30b. I or
~H that I made it my business to carry
the meals Also, I rapped on the glass of
the port every night and had a word or two
with him. I was not the only one who felt
impelled to offer comfort. Mr. Seymour got
into the habit of being somewhere near
-Ijen I went to the port. Rather prosy and
sanctimonious he was, but he had something
solid in the way of consolation that I sadly
lacked. He was a good man, and though,
like the rest of us, he was convinced of
Bastable’s guilt; he showed Christian charity*
“During the next few days I talked the
matter over with everyone. In fact, I made
a nuisance of myself, I’m afraid, trying
to ferret out any chance recollection that
might have bearing on the subject, without
much luck, however.
“Then, on the next Sunday, I saw a faint
gleam of light. The second mate had just
been prowling round trying to find some
little job he could put the apprentices to.
He called Irving, the youngest boy, aft. Now,
Irving was a scatter-brained kid, always sky-
larking, never serious for a minute. ‘Up
you go, lad,’ said Mr. Seymour. ‘Take
some twine with you and overhaul and stop
the main-topgallant buntlines. They’re
chafing the sail through.’
“Away went Irving, and was up over the
sheet-pole in' a couple of Seconds. Up the
lower rigging he trotted, clambered over the
i-ini bf the top, and was just setting foot
fill tiie topmast rigging when he stopped,
lie paused for a moment and then slid
down the backstay to the deck.
“ ‘Here,’ said Mr. Seymour sharply,
‘what’s this game?’
“Without taking a bit of notice the boy
came along for’ard to where I was sitting,
lie was gasping in his excitement.
“ ‘Stanton,’ he said as soon as he could
find his voice. ‘l’ve just remembered. You
were asking me about the knife. Well, when
I went aloft at the main just now it all
came back to me. The day before Waters
was stubbed Mr. Seymour sent me to make
up a gasket that was flying adrift on the
topsail yard. Bastable was on the yard
at the time putting a mousing on the down-
haul block. As I passed him he said ‘Half
a minute, boy!’ and took the knife from my
belt to cut the spunyarn he was using. He
hadn’t bis knife with him.’
“My voice shook as I told liim to come
along aft with me and tell Mr. Seymour.
The second mate was only too willing to
do what I suggested. Down below into the
cabin we went and got Mr. Sams to take
down the boy’s statement. The mate and
the skipper agreed that it might be of some
importance, but they didn’t attach much
significance to it. Not nearly as much as
I did.
“More than once I heard during a fo’c’s’le
discussion that ‘Staflton’s evidence was good
gnough to hang Sastable,’ I became more
findmore troubled ifl spitit. I found myself
mi able tb . sleep, and many a watch below
when I should have been in my bunk 1
wandered here and there seeking a yarn.
The crime obsessed me.
“Now it isn’t much spare time that a
ship’s cook has on his hands, but one day
our ‘doctor’ felt at liberty to sit down on
the main hatch and enjoy a quiet smoke. I
sat down beside him, and of course we talked
about the murder. Then the cook changed
the subject. He had a grievance. Some-
body had got into his room and helped him-
self to a few trifles. ‘I bad a few bob in
the till of my chest and they’re gone. Also
a brand new watch, cost me seven and a
tanner. There’s a thief aboard as well as
an assassin.’
“ ‘And just when do you reckon these
things were stolen, Cook?’ I asked.
“ ‘Well, I didn’t miss them till the Mon-
day, but I think that during the squally
weather we had on the night of the murder
the thief took advantage of me being in
the galley setting the bread, and everybody
else busy taking in sail, to force the door
and sneak in.’
“‘How do you mean, Cook? Was your
room locked?’ was my next query. You see,
out upon the open sea it is unusual to lock
doors.
“ ‘lt’s like this,’ he said, ‘to keep my
room private I always unship the handle,
but it’s possible to lift the latch with a
knife. I saw the marks of a knife on the
woodwork.’
“I made no reply. I couldn’t. My brain
was awhirl. A knife used on the cook’s:
door, and it was there that Waters had met
his end!
“‘And who would you blame, Cook?’ I
asked as soon as my voice was under com-
mand.
“‘How can I blame anyone when I didn’t
see them? But I’ve got a notion that young
George knows something about it. He
keeps out of my sight now as much as he
can and never comes to the galley door
cadging for a hand-out like he used to.’
“Somehow I managed to persuade the
‘doctor’ that if he left it to me I’d see that
he regained his lost treasures.
“Now, while I had been studying all my
shipmates I’d noticed a change in George,
the training-ship hoy. As was only natural,
for some days after the death of Waters an
atmosphere of gloom pervaded the whole
ship. But as the days passed this was
gradually dispelled. Soon a laugh might
be heard, and the nightly yarns were of
other things than crime. Then one night
Wilson, a Cockney, brought out his accor-
dion. We were back to normal.
“There were two exceptions, though. I
could not get the one bitter thought out of
my head: my evidence was to hang Bas-
table. The other exception was young
George, who seemed to have let the business
prey upon his mind. He was for ever hang-
ing around the room where Bastable was
interned. Mr. Sams hunted him away
for’ard a couple of times and said his dis-
play of morbid interest was most unbecom-
ing in a lad of his years. So I resolved
to cultivate the youngster’s acquaintance.
That evening he came up on the fo’c’s’le-
head where I was keeping lookout. No mis-
take. he did appear to have some secret
trouble. I led him on as tactfully as I
knew how, but not much information did
I get. In fact, the one theme of his eager
questioning was whether they would hang
Bastable.
“‘I couldn’t say, lad,’ said I. ‘Perhaps
they’ll bring it in as manslaughter and
give him a few years in gaol. I hope so.’
“He sighed heavily, and when a boy of
his age sighs there is a good reason. But
he was not to be drawn out, and that little
hope left me.
“We picked up the land somewhere about
Rio and ran down the coast to our destina-
tion, anchoring just about sundown. Sure
enough there were two or three ships that
looked as if they’d been there many months
with no one to keep them in order, but the
pilot assured us that the port was healthy.
There hadn’t been a case of yellow fever
for some weeks. The guard-boat came off
and there was a long palaver aft. It seems
that, as the murder had been committed
on the high seas, it was none of the Brazilian
Government’s business. However, they
offered to keep Bastable in prison ashore
until arrangements could be made for ship-
ping him off to England for trial. So he
was manacled and taken away in the launch.
I tried to be cheerful as I said good-bye
to him, but it was a hard job. All I could
say was that I was still looking for clues
and had run across a couple that might
be of use later. He was game, and when
I handed down his bag and shook his
padlocked hand, he could smile —which was
more than I was able to do.
“That night I was keeping anchor-watch
from ten to midnight, and, though we had
had a long day’s work, I never sat down
for one minute. Restless and worried, I
walked fore and aft the deck, thinking and
thinking. I’d been aft as far as the break
of the poop when as I turned to go for’ard
I heard a queer noise somewhere about the
main fife-rail. Stepping across I found
that the huddled heap on the deck was young
George, sobbing steadily.
“‘What’s wrong, boy?’ I asked as kindly
as I could.
“ ‘They’ve taken Bastable away,’ he
auswered brokenly. ‘And I don’t feel well,
-I feel sick.’
“At once I knew that my clue was not
going to be altogether a failure. I would
get something out of the boy even if I had
to apply third-degree methods.
“‘Sick, are you?’ said I. ‘Come along
for’ard.’
“I led him to where the glow of the
anchor light made a circle in the darkness.
“‘Do you know what, Georgie?’ I said
taking his hand. ‘You’re in for yellow fever;
I can see it in the color of your eyes. You’ve
got it badly, and—well, there are mighty
few get over it.’
“Perhaps I was cruel, but as he began
to weep afresh I played upon his fears.
“ ‘Now, George,’ I said gently, putting my
arm around him, for he was only a child,
‘I want you to tell me what you were doing
at the cook’s door the night of the murder.’
“‘I wasn’t there at all,’ he cried fran-
tically; ‘I wasn’t near it,’
“ ‘Yes, you were, Georgie; I saw you.'
That was a lie, but I hope it was forgiven.
‘Tell me all about it, boy. You might die
of the fever, and it would be terrible to
die with a sin on your soul.’
“I held him in my arms and soothed him.
Spoke to him with perhaps the kindest words
he had Cver heard. The end of it was a
trembling, tearful boy stammering out his
pitiful tale. He had stolen Bastable’s knife,
as he had stolen many other things. It was
not his blame. Lay it on to the cursed fate
that had brought him into the world in a
den of .wickedness, of which thievery was
perhaps the least. On the night of Waters’s
death, during the hurry and confusion of
taking in sail when the squall struck the
ship, he saw a long-looked-for chance. Using
the knife to pry up the latch, he got inside
the room and helped himself. Just as he
had re-fastened the door, he heard someone
coming. It happened to be me,' and. dread-,
ing discovery, he scuttled off. dropping the
knife in liis haste. And he saw, as he
peeped round the corner of the house, the
knife stuck point upward in the grating.
Even while the poor lad thought to himself
that somebody might come along barefooted
and get a cut foot, the quarrel between
Bastable and Waters began. Filled with
terror he dropped on hands and knees. He
intended to crawl along under the shadow
of the house and retrieve the weapon. Then
the awful thing happened.
“The boy sobbed on my breast as he told
me of his daily and hourly regret, his self-
condemnation and his soul-scorching fear
that Bastable was to die.
“Little consolation could I afford him
beyond assuring him that it was not too
late to undo some of the wrong.
“ ‘lt is a brave thing, lad,’ I said, ‘to
confess a misdeed. So, George, -beK brave.
Come aft with me and tell the truth like
the Briton you are.’
“After some natural reluctance he con-
sented. Though it was well on towards
midnight I had no hesitation in rousing out
the after-guard, by Avhich I mean the cap-
tain and his officers. I banged on the
second mate’s door. He seemed to me the
right one to go to first. Out he in a
hurry wondering whether the ship was afire
or something similar.
“‘l’m sorry to disturb sir,’ said I,
‘but the news I’ve got won’t keep till .morn-
ing.’
“In a few words I told him what the boy
had divulged.
“ ‘Thank God,’ said Mr. Seymouri with
solemnity. ‘Stanton, this is what F have
prayed for. And you, George, though you
are a self-confessed thief, and though you
kept your dark secret too long, have found
redemption. Come, let us call the captain
and Mr. Sams.’
“Next morning all of us who had made
any vital statements were taken ashore.
We were cross-examined by the British Con-
sul, and then we went to the Governor’s
residence, where we were put through the
whole business again. The end of it was
that the Governor, as representing Brazil,
decided that all the papers relating to the
case should be sent to England. Bastable
was to rejoin his ship and hold himself in
readiness to stand his trial if such were
ordered when we got baek.
,(Continued on next page.),


'Value
that is ptoved
by actual years
of unfailing
writing service
A fountain pen that has a
imputation for continuing to
write perfectly for thirty of
forty years does not need ex-
travagant ciaims to support it.
Nevertheless the 4 Swan .Pen
is guaranteed by the makers
to serve you faithfully for an
Unlimited timet
You fcan now huy a ‘Swan*
iPen either in Black or in the
fexquisite colours which are
so popular;
fcOLOURED ‘SWANS’ from 22/6
(OTHER SELF-FILLING ‘SWANS'
from 17/6 Black or Mottled)
“Fyne-Poynt " Pencils from 7/6
Self-Filling “ Blackbird ” Pens from 9/-
OF STATIONERS & JEWELLERS
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD., Swan House,
London, W.I.
Factories: London and Liverpool.
Xi
Managing Agents & Repair
Service Depot:
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD.,
181, Clarence Stieet, Cv
Sydney.
£
IT
PAItJ'l
JAai
S*
7A
Ms
7 \
V/,
s/li
1
%
mm
ml
e
“SWAN*
PENS
AND ALL
PENS
5;
/
VI
r
y
l
There is a ' Fyne-Poynt ’ Pencil
to match any ‘Swan’ Pen.
fSK TO S££ THE COLOURED ‘swans’
we
“We happened to be one of the lucky
ships. No yellow fever came on board. _W e
got rid of our cargo quickly, whipped in a
hit of ballast and put to sea again in less
than two weeks. The voyage was a, time ot
cruel suspense for Bastable, but he came oft
clear in the end. Young George stood to
his guns like a man, and, trifling though it
was, the apprentice boy Irving’s evidence
sea # *
noxt momme the Judge
lB ,h 0
dock heard the woids, Not gi y.
Life.
If a man about to take his life were suddenly confronted with death from
another quarter, would he look upon the intervention as a blessing and quietly
submit, or ivould he offer resistance? In this story F, STEWART GEE tells
what James Burford did in the circumstances.
TAMES BURFORD laid aside his pen, set
» liis desk in order, and pulled the roll-
w top down with a snap. Then he reached
for liis hat and turned to the door. With
ltis hand on the knob he hestitated and looked
back. After all, whatever one’s fortitude
may' be, it is not easy to survey for the last
time an old, familiar scene —a scene that
has long helped to color one’s life, and which
has become imbued with our traits and pecu-
liarities. In the outer office he paused to
instruct Miss Glenn on a return lie wanted
her to type, told the officc-boy not to miss
the mail, and passed out into the five-o’clock
rush of the street.
The short winter day was entering on a
final round with the dusk as he allowed him-
self to be borne along on a seething, jostling
tide. In half an hour he would embark
upon another tide that would bear him—
whither? But, after all, what did it mat-
ter? All —every one of the thousands now
round him —would have to make the same
voyage sooner or later, and under the cir-
cumstances his was the better way; in his
case, as he had told himself for a week
past, the only way. He would forestall des-
tiny. He would play the trump card that
every man has up his sleeve to use just liow
and when he will. And, when all is said,
what is life? It is a flash of consciousness
bounded at either end by a silent void. We
emerge from the silence, play our little parts,
and pass again into the silence. Yes, Life
is very strange, but stranger still is the
way most of us cling to its trailing skirts.
At the corner he turned down a side street
to the parking area'. In the act of turning
the car in the direction that would bring
him to the Cliff-road, a sudden whim came
to him. He would call at his club for the
last time and casually meet some of his
cronies. For the benefit of those he was
leaving he must appear normal to the end.
He would also have a whisky to steady liis
nerves—not that they needed steadying,
though, as Heaven knew. lie had never
been more calm and collected than he was at
the present moment.
A few minutes later he was back in the
crowded streets again, and stopped his car
outside the Selective. In the vestibule he
was accosted by Briggs.
“Hulloa, Burford! Just the man we
want. We’re one short for a set of”
“Sorry, old man, but I can’t join you
to-night. I’m just about to pay a flying
visit to the Cliff-road to view <a property
for a client. I want to be home early, too,
as the wife’s expecting company. I’ll join
,you to-morrow evening if you like.”
He passed into the lounge and pressed the
button. “A whisky and soda, Wilkins,” he
•said.
A moment or two later the tray was set
before him, and he handed Wilkins a pound-
note. With steady hand he poured himself
out the spirit and waited for Wilkins to
return.
His lips parted in a smile as recollection
came to him. After all, what did it matter?
A few shillings-either way could make no
difference now. He rose, and, exchanging a
casual word here and there with fellow
clubmen, passed again into the street and
entered the car. Five minutes later he had
left the city behind, and was making good
progress in the direction of the cliff.
As he sped along in the dusk he con-
gratulated himself on the completeness of his
plans. The whole thing would be so obvi-
ously an accident that no intelligent coroner
could fail to bring in a verdict of death by
misadventure. lie had marked the spot
some days before. It was at a sharp bend
in the road. The car. failing to take the
bend, would crash through the protecting
rail and plunge down the sheer drop of a
hundred feet to the rocks below. It was all
so simple and would be over in a few seconds.
No suspicion of suicide could possibly sully
his memory, and Annie and little I’ete would
reap the benefit of his heavy insurance. They
would be far better off without him than
of late they had been with him.
He smiled as he sped along at the recol-
lection of what the doctors had been telling
him. Two of the craft had warned him that
he was working too hard and must take a
holiday. One had even gone so far as to
hint that he detected signs of the mind
becoming affected. His mind! Ha! Ha!
His intellect had never been clearer or more
alert than it was right now.
He had passed the last house. With the
passing he had severed for ever his remain-
ing link with humanity. But he was not
afraid. If he was trembling slightly it
was only with excitement. A thrill of adven-
ture swept through him. He was a voyager
about to embark upon the vast, uncharted
seas of infinity—an explorer on the verge of
solving the riddle whose answer all men long
to know, yet few possess the courage to ascer-
tain. And the poor fool of a coroner would say
it was an accident! Well, he had the lauah
on them all. The laugh, that was it. He
could afford to laugh; and his dry lips parted
in a chuckle.
It was grand, almost sublime, this feel-
ing of abandon. And he was not afraid; he
was clear on that point. Nevertheless, he
would not give fear the chance to intrude.
He stood on the accelerator, and the white
poles of the telegraph sped past him like
the links in a chain.
Suddenly, in the powerful gleam of the
headlights, the bend showed up a quarter of a
mile ahead. It rushed to meet him with the
speed of a meteor. He grasped the wheel
more firmly and drew in a long breath. He
would be game to the
In the centre of the road, at the very
point where he should have crashed through
the rail, the figure of a man appeared with
arms upraised signing for him to stop. With
a stifled curse Burford jambed on the brakes.
There must be no witnesses to his act, or
the coroner might score, after all.
The man stepped to the side of the car.
“Can I borrow your jack for a few min-
utes? I’ve had a blow-out, and want to
change tyres.”
Burford glanced round in the darkness.
“Where’s your car?” he asked.
“I ran it to the side of the road. You
overshot it some twenty yards back.”
Burford lifted the seat and began to
fumble among the tools. When, a moment
later, he turned with the jack, he found him-
self looking down the barrel of a revolver.
“Never mind the jack. I reckon your
money and watch will be more to the point.”
In a flash Burford sized up the situation.
There had been several such cases on the
outskirts of the city during the last week or
two. He bent to set down the jack, and as
lie straightened up he held a spanner.
“Look slippery,” said the man menacingly.
“There’s no time for”-
Ducking suddenly, Burford made a quick
blow with the. spanner. The man threw
up his arms to protect his face and received
the blow on the right wrist. The revolver
was knocked from his grasp, and went spin-
ning out into the darkness. 11l the same
instant Burford sprang upon him, anti the
two went down together in the dfisty foad-
The pair were well, matehedi Burford
was a large, powerfully built mail, while
his opponent though smaller, was hard as
nails and active as h cat. Twice Burford
had him pinned beneath him, and twice the
mail wriggled free. They rolled off the road
and, still struggling, passed under the white
railing that guarded the cliff. It seemed to
Burford that the man was purposely edging
in that direction. And suddenly he under-
stood. The brute was going to try to hurl
him over the edge!
With the revelation a fierce frenzy swept
over Burford. All that the long centuries
of civilisation had brought him fell away in
a moment of time, and once more he was a
pre-historic creature fighting tooth and claw
for life and the preservation of life. For-
gotten was liis late intention. Only the
primary instincts survived and culminated in
a consuming desire to live.
Nearer and nearer, inch by inch, they
surged to the edge. They were both grow-
ing exhausted. Their breath came in hard,
short gasps. Suddenly Burford summoned
his remaining strength and pinned the other
beneath him. Snatching up a handful of
dust and gravel, lie dashed it in the upturned
mouth and eyes. In the same instant he
received a kick that sent him rolling down
the slight incline. Clawing wildly at the
yielding earth, he came to a stop with his
feet dangling over the abyss. He lay there
not daring to move as the man, coughing
and rubbing his eyes, rose slowly to his
feet and groped his way up the incline. _ A
moment later he passed under the railing
and staggered into the darkness.
Slowlv Burford drew himself back from
the cliff': It was not until he had crawled
several feet that lie stood up. As he looked
out over the yawning blackness a shudder
ran through him, and a cold sweat bathed
his forehead. A minute later he, too, passed
under the railing, and shortly after was
speeding back to the city as fast as wheels
and petrol could bear him.
He drove straight to his office and had a
wash and brush-up. On his way home he
called in at the Selective.
“Whisky and soda, Wilkins,” he ordered.
“And I think there’s a matter of change
due to me. And, Wilkins, I’ll be going
away to-morrow for a few weeks’ holiday.
Keep any letters that come for me, and I’ll
let you know later where to re-address them.”
The Secret.
I am the buckler, the sword and the shield
Of home and the hearth-fires dear.
I am the heart that never must yield....
But half of my heart’s not here.
Outside my life and outside my death,
Forgotten, unnamed and lost,
Outside my speech till my last faint breath,
A spectre that says “Thou wast.”
Outside my ken and outside my kind,
Yet many a midnight cold
I hear your voice on a wandering wind
Calling me as of old.
Outside the prayers this many a year
With which I guard my own,
Outside my thoughts like fugitive air
O’er weal and the waste-land blown.
Outside the hopes and the happy schemes
(Such sad, sad worlds apart!)
Outside the door of my rainbow dreams—■
But never outside my heart!
Never outside my heart, though locked,
The chamber and lost the key.
Where the last foundations of Time are
rocked
At the foot of Eternity,
When earth gives up her dead, and where
All secrets are named and known,
They shall look in my heart and find you
there
In the place that was aye your own.
VICTOIUA.
K. DALZIEL.


»:•
Hi
W-;
WESTING HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—MOWlKS <* OHUBCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office —93-107 T'eatherston Street, Wellington.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
Victorian Office —“Chancery House/’ 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Atents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., I/fD., Adelaide, 8. A.
PROVED!
Those advertisers who are in the position to
test results have proved time and again that
THE DAILY MAIL.
BRISBANE
is definitely the finest result-getter in all Queensland.
It is more than 50 years younger than its morning contemporary.
Its circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be greater
than any other Queensland daily, and its influence and reader-value
are certainly unsurpassed.
Rate cards, specimen copies, etc., from
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-94 Queen Street, Brisbane.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“THE AGE”
Established 185fy.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!
If you wish to stimulate the interest of the
Victorian public in your products, digest these
facts:—
Over 123,000 persons purchase “The Age”
daily (60 per cent. Metropolitan area,
40 .per cent. Country districts).
Over 96 per cent, of the copies purchased
are home delivered to subscribers.
Over 95 per cent. Of the home deliveries
remain in the house for the womenfolk
during the day,
and
Over 1,000,000 advertisements are pub-
lished in its columns annually.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation
123,533.
Rates on application to the principal service
agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Cbc Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ATWERTISEE” may be
obtained at all inter state agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
Che mercury
(Tasmania’s National Daily)
carries regularly a far greater total
volume of advertising than any other
newspaper published in Tasmania.
IT is thus, judged by the use made of
its columns, the most popular
as well as the most powerful of the
newspapers of Tasmania.
DROFIT by the experience of the
leading national advertisers, and
place “The Mercury” first when
advertising is under consideration.
Average Net Circulation, 20,967.
JT is, undoubtedly, Tasmania’s ablest
* and best conducted newspaper.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
PUBLISHERS,
95, 97, 99 Macquarie Street,
Hobart, Tasmania.
Cable & Postal Address: “Mercury,” Hobart.
Sydney Office:
F. L. Wilson, Representative, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street, Wynyard Square,
BW 5179.
Melbourne Office :
Argus Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
i
■
sKwF?
EYES
bell of
HEALTH
EYES tell of character and
personality. Eye* tell oi
health also. If the whites
have lost their brightness,
are dull and lack lustre, you may
be sure your health as well as your
beauty are being impaired by poisons
spreading through your system—the
result of Constipation. Headaches,
biliousness and tiredness are other
manifestations of constipation. The
safest, surest way to conquer constipa-
tion is to take Beecham’s Pills. Their
corrective action has made them the
world’s approved regulative medicine
Get a box to-day.
BEEQUMS
PILLS
WORTH A
GUINEA A
BOX
SELECT THAT ELEGANT SPRING OR
SUMMER FROCK FROM THE “MIRROR”
PATTERN SERVICE.
dr
Up-to-date modes, stylish to a
degree, await your selection .
KJXXO*
The “ Minor •”
1
H *
«p— *» I^*B.
Service
Pattern
64
PACES
3°
AUST.R A L I A N
WOMAN'S MIRROR
Published.
6 vert/
'Juesdat/
■3^>“
r 0^ e
•** 4 >
A V’
•••-...-- ..-rMe.
W
*


Girts and Boys mtm imt to play
"'“D sta y home /r
Jhe pry may uame
is
$77
l
mm
D
g
A
g
i
0.
m
%
0
&
/
&
F
r*
For the most original
models sent in by boys
and girls of all ages, we
shall award:
First Prize . £2O
Second Prize £lO
Third Prize . £5
Fourth Prize £3
Filth Prize . £2
and Ten Prizes of
£1 each.
NO COUPONS NO
ENTRANCE FEE
NO LABELS TO SEND.
in PRIZES
'or the best
TOYS L MODELS
made out of match boxes
EW competitions have received such a warm welcome as the “Brymay*
game! That is because, aside from the prizes offered, few offer such
opportunities for fun and interesting recreation.
If you entered last year, you will recall the tremendous amount of pleasure
you got out of your model-making, and the jolly evenings you spent! Aren't
you going to have a shot for a prize this year also?
Hundreds of boys and girls are already making their model toys, and every
one of them has a chance to win something, for the size of the model does not
affect its prize value. Better send for your copy of the “Brymay” Game
Book today.
It costs you nothing to enter. All you do is take a few empty Bryant &
May match boxes, some strips of coloured paper, a little paste —and make
your models. The "Brymay” Book of Models —post free on request-
gives you full information how to make your toys, and complete details of
the competition in which we offer £ 50 in cash prizes.
If you, decide to make a WORKING model, be sure that it is substantially
built. Flimsy models are easily broken.
No toy or model will be accepted for the competition before Ist December.
All models—successful or otherwise—will be on exhibition in the Brymay
Hall at our Factory during January, 1930.
Address your letter to
BRYANT & MAY PTY. LTD., Toy Making Competition,
RICHMOND, El., VICTORIA.
AUSTRALIAN
MATCHES
