

m
m
/v/V
n
IV
mm
r*
fi
z /.
v\v
juillllllltll
re
V
gs
N. \\\
N>
■mW!* : i i
te
0
THE OLDEST HORSE
IN THE WORLD I
ESTABLISHED 1742
white Horse
n Whisky
Screw-cap Bottles.
No Corkscrew
The Bulletin .
fi^uJi^AoXuyv^b
Vol. 50.—N0. 2572.
Wednesday, May 29, 1929.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


'pTIE 1929 LIBRARY CATALOGUE is
now ready, and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The mind of man still fails to grasp
The measure of eternity ;
Time’s awful vista makes him gasp
With dread of what is yet to be.
But mirth and music cheer us still,
And love our hearts can bliss assure—
For influenza, cough or chill,
There’a Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—ADVf,
Learn
Story
Writing
at HOttE
Send this S.B. Advt. for this Book:
“HOW TO WRITE FOR PROFIT.” It is Free!
STOTT’S; 100 Russell St., Melbourne.
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
V
HW 3
sdf
STAMMERING AND STUTTERING
CAN BE CURED IN YOUR OWN HOME
Send TO-DAY for particulars of “Perfect Speech” and copies of letters from
those who hare been cured. Philip O’Bryen Ifoare, M.8.1.M.5c.’ (London) (The
Stammerers’ Friend), Specialist in Public Speaking and the Cure of Stammering
and Stuttering.
ADDRESS:
56 BRISBANE ARCADE, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
P.O. Bex 1142 P.
“THE AGE”
Established 1854.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
When you advertise you do riot consider the
money involved as a speculation. You treat
this expenditure as an investment and expect
a reasonable return on your outlay,
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“The Age’’■ has exerted an influence in the
affairs and development of Victoria. Its
present powerful position has been gained by
its literary worth, which appeals to an intelli-
gent public, and by its accurate and complete
news service. These factors, having a direct
bearing on its value as an advertising medium,
cannot be disregarded by the advertiser looking
for the best INVESTMENT for his advertising
expenditure.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation,
123,533.
Hates on application to the principal Service
Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl.
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
"The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
/>
the
VENUS
lans the World
r
The first rough suggestion— the skilful
and accurate working out, the sharp
detailed drawings, all the preliminary
planning necessary to the carrying out of
constructive effort, call for the use of VENXIS
PENCILS Whether it be for the building of a
battle-ship or the design of a simple household
article, the pencil is the first requirement: the
VENUS the first pencil.
mm
\7.
17 Blacklead Degrees 68-9 H sd. each - 4/9 per dozen, Super Copying (Medium & Hard) 6d.
each - 5/9 per dozen. Venus Copying (Medium & Hard) 4d. each - 3/9 per dozen.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN *
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
THE MOUTH THE GATEWAY for DISEASE.
Scientists have proved conclusively that no fewer
than 38 different infections may be traced to the
human mouth as a starting point. The mouth thus
being the gateway for the entrance of disease, it
is here that precautions are most necessary.
Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes
Are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germi-
cide and Antiseptic known. Beinr destructive to
all organisms which.give rise to infectious diseases,
they keep the mouth in a sweet, healthy condition.
The Lancet (London) states:—“Their purpose is to
act as a bactericide in the mouth. This result is
J'jcely to be gained, for in the experiments tried
Eumenthol Jujubes proved to be as effective bao-
tericidally as is creosote.”
I/O a Tin.
01
3*
a
A. The Larynx of
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
c.
The Bronchial
Tubes of Dissected
Lung.
The Lobe of on
of the Lungs.
For Coughs,
Bronchitis
and
Throats,
Influenza.
The Red Page
Our History of the War
The reviewer (R.P. 8/5/’29) of Volume
111 of the “Official History of Australia in
the War” apparently doubted the adequacy
of the reasons given by Bean for exonerat-
ing McCav from responsibility for the
Fromelles disaster.
MeCay was a mere divisional com-
mander, under General Godley, and again
under General Birdwood and his Chief of
Staff General White. He had just come
to the Western Front for the first time,
and was handed over to the commander of
a new force, Lieutenant-General Haking,
and directed to make an attack in con-
junction with a British division. What
would have been McCay’s position had he
refused to obey this order? To whom could
he protest? To Haking—who hac], planned
the attack and converted Haig himself bv
his enthusiastic arguments in its .favor?
To Haig, in face of the reports of Haking,
an experienced officer? No protest by
McCay was possible and refusal to obey
still more unthinkable. But Birdwood and
White had been on this spot for four
months, and, says Bean, they were through-
out opposed lo the scheme. The evidence
for this assertion is, however, nowhere dis-
closed except in an extract from the journal
of an unnamed diarist, who" apparently was
not a combatant. And if Birdwood and
W hite were as strongly opposed as we are
invited to believe, what of their duty as
commanders directly responsible to the Aus-
tralian Government for the lives of its
citizens?
As commander of the A.1.F., and know-
ing all the facts, only Birdwood could
properly make the protest and, if he were
overruled, insist upon its being recorded.
Why was this protest not made? Probably'
neither Birdwood nor White foresaw dis-
aster. Judging by what occurred almost
immediately afterwards, there is no reason
to infer that either of them had the ability
to foresee that the possibilities of success
at Fromelles were any less than at, say, the
first attack by the 2nd Division at Pozieres,
where all the same errors were repeated,
or at the attack on November 5 of the
same year, when, as Bean records, men who
were “weeping with fatigue” caused by the
mere physical effort required to reach the
hop-off line were in that state, and with
mud to their knees, hurled to butchery on
the untouched wire. And this although
the protest that had been made had, with-
out any question, reached Birdwood and
White!
With regard to Bean’s failure to register
due indignation at that year of horror—
his job surely is to elicit and record the
truth and leave the indignation to be
registered by his readers and the Govern-
ment. That duty he has tried hard to dis-
charge, but circumstances have been too
strong for him.
Bean, it must be remembered, was not
appointed in the first place as official his-
torian. His appointment, as he conceived
it, was that of publicity agent for the A.1.F.,
its commanders and their staff. The first
striking episode in his career, and which
nearly wrecked his popularity with the
A.1.F., was the letter he wrote, by direction
of General Bridges, to the Australian
papers casting aspersions, largely unwar-
ranted. upon the A.1.F., based on the doings
of a few scallywags at Cairo. Bridges,
though showing bad judgment, was aiming
to secure certain results, and found Bean’s
apparently an obedient pen; in fact, as
Bean had army rank he doubtless had no
choice. Later on we find Bean serving
Birdwood and White in the same capacity.
He represented Birdwood as the Soul of
Anzac and White as the divinely-gifted
staff officer whose lynx-eyed vigilance fore-
saw every difficulty, anticipated every
obstacle. Indeed, we find bitter protests
from other British corps recorded against
Birdwood’s possessing the luxury of a pub-
licity agent. They had no such facilities for
advertisement and resented Birdwood’s
superior equipment.
Later Bean was made official historian.
And can. he be expected now to show
indignation? Can he choke over his own
words? How can he pull aside the curtain
and display the clay feet of these colossi
that he has so painfully built up? He must
either bolster up what he has built or
overthrow it, make full confession that for
years he has well humbugged the Com-
monwealth public (albeit with the best in-
tention and in the supposed interests of
victory) and admit that these mvthical
warriors were largely the product of his own
imagination. Bean is apparently too honest
a man to attempt the first. It would seem
like treachery to his friends to reveal all.
So he has attempted to steer a middle course
—to put down the facts, but to camouflage
the awkward ones discreetly or pass them
gently by.
His estimates of some officers are par-
ticularly suspect. They are colored far too
deeply by his associations: Legge is an able
man, but something was lacking; Monash
has a brilliant, brain, but is no fighting man;
Leane, the bravest of the brave, but dis-
obeyed orders on the battlefield; Elliott,
valiant but rash, and with a childlike faith
in obsolete rules of tactics. When all is said,
there will remain, apparently, but one flaw-
less twin constellation in Bean’s universe—•
the glorious Birdwood-White Combine.
Exceptions there are. Consider Gelli-
hrand, whom White had as a staff college
comrade, rising from major to brigadier-gen-
eral within a month! His virtues are care-
fully extolled. Glasgow, also an early com-
rade of White and brought by him from a
light-horse regiment to command an in-
fantry brigade, a distinction unique in the
A.1.F., is accorded his meed of praise with-
out. qualification. These are the only pro-
minent commanders who have so far escaped
sneer or censure.
One difficulty in eliciting the full truth
lies in the fact that on more than one occa-
sion the destruction of original reports,
messages, etc., was ordered.
The indications are fairly obvious that
we shall require a new edition under a
fresh editor before the truth in all its
nakedness will be revealed. Research might
eventually disclose that White persuaded
Defence Minister Pearce to have Birdwood
appointed above Chauvel, Legge and Mon-
ash, his own superiors in rank. The teach-
ing of the group to which he belonged
aimed at concentrating power in its own
hands and was directed to that end—in
the full belief, no doubt, that the cause
of the Allies would thus best be served.
Monash was sent to train the 3rd Division
out of the way. Legge was undermined
by the reports of “Disloyal British Staff”
(p. 603) and eventually pushed back, to
Australia. With the break-up of the 3rd
Division in contemplation, Monash might
have been left stranded in England.
But Army H.Q. ordered Monash and his
division into France, and, although the men
of that division were even more inexperi-
enced in fighting than the sth Division at
Fromelles, the division was launched into
action with such amazing skill and success
that Monash, in a fortunate day for the
A.1.F., took at one bound his rightful place
among the leaders on the Western Front.
Bean’s succeeding volumes will un-
doubtedly form most interesting reading and
will be eagerly awaited. Whether they can
be the last word on the subject is another
question.
XENOPHON.
The Lost Soul
The central idea of my article on the
question of Australia’s soul (R.P. 24/4/’29)
was the excessive glorification of the phy-
sical in this part of the world. R. G.
Henderson (R.P. 15/5/’29) conveniently
ignores that and concentrates on one of
my asides. This is merely the old trick
of the red herring.
It is a pretty problem raised by my
critic as to whether the artist makes a
nation’s soul or merely reports it. Per-
sonally, I am of the opinion that he can
create the nation’s images only from what
he sees surrounding him. In other words,
an artist mirrors his age more than he
leads it. Our attack on the bush in the
pioneering days gave Australia the Lawsons,
the Banjo Patersons and others. I can’t
convince myself that the converse is cor-
rect and that Lawson gave Australia the
soul of the bush. Surely he merely noticed
it and reported on it.
If the people of, a countiy are sport-mad.
it is difficult to know how they are going
to be compelled to take an interest in art-
galleries, literature and concert-halls. Per-
haps it is only by constantly hammering
away at them that they' will be .forced to
notice the folly of the cult of the super-
physical to the near-exclusion of the arts.
KEITH C. BARRY.
C. J. Brennan
In the world of C. J. Brennan, the only
music is the deep heroic surge of the epic
rhythm, which he teaches me. Not in one
reading, it may be, or even in two. At
first I felt only the magnificence, the rich
splendor of the phrasing, the certainty of
technique in rare and personal forms. That
had its delight, its mere admiration. But
that was five years ago. Now he demands
my willing sublimation to his mood; he
releases me from my world and makes me
free of his, where the great winds and
eternities are a true escape. And now I
take his technique and his phrasing for
granted. He' gives me instead his faculty
(Bed Page continued on page 5.)


‘Truth in Advertising”—expressing the policy which has built Anthony Horderns .
Anthony Horderns’
are Ag'ents for Planet Jr.
Farm and Garden Tools
u
No. 4.—HILL- AND DRILL-SEEDER, £4/10/-. This efficient
machine also combines Single-wheel Hoe. Most suitable for the
home- or small market-gardener. The No. 4 plants practically all
vegetable seeds; the index is accurate, the hopper holds 2\ quarts.
Cultivating attachments: Large garden plough, three steel cultivator-
teeth, one pair 6in. hoes, and one leaf-lifter. Price £4/10/-
Our Agricultural Department is
stocked with everything that is
modern in the way of Farm and
Garden Tools. There is a great selec-
tion to choose from, and always, the
advantage of “famous low prices ’ to
consider.
7^lM
No. 11.—DOUBLE- AND SINGLE-WHEEL HOE, £3/10/-. No. 1 I
is a very complete tool for the home- or market-gardener. The 6in.
and 4 Jin. hoes are the greatest weed-killers known; cultivator-teeth
give thorough cultivation; ploughs used for opening and closing
furrows, hilling up plants, etc. As with the Double-wheel Hoe,
the gardener can straddle the row until plants are 20in. high, culti-
vating both sides at one time. Equipment: Pair of Gin. hoes, pair
of 4-Jin. hoes, four steel cultivator-teeth, pair of ploughs, 3-tooth and
two 5-tooth rakes, pair of leaf-lifters £3/10/-
m
sa®
ififcSg
No. 25.—HILL- AND DRILL-SEEDER, £5/7/6.
Double- and Single-wheel Hoe combined. The No.
25 plants all vegetable seeds like the No. 4, but
includes the Double- as well as the Single-wheel
Hoe, enabling the gardener to straddle the rows until
the plants are 20in. high, cultivating both sides at
one time. Equipment includes a pair of garden
ploughs, four steel cultivating teeth, one pair of 6in.
hoes and leaf-lifter £5/7/6
OUR “D.P.S.”
Another advantage in
shopping at Anthony
• If order ns’ is our Deposit-
Purchase System, which
enables you to leave a
deposit and pay for the
goods as you wish. When
payments are complete
the goods arc yours. No
interest charged.
¥
No. B.—HORSE HOE AND CULTIVATOR COM-
BINED, £5/2/6. Planet Jr. No. 8 is one of the
most valuable time- and labor-saving tools for farm
use. Wheel does not clog; frame is longer and higher
than others; steel standards so attached as to brace
cultivator and withstand strain; levers operate quickly
and easily; and has a depth regulator. Equipment:
Four 3in x Bin. cultivator steels, one 4in. x 6in.
cultivator steel, two 6in. hillers, one 7in. shovel.
Price £5/2/6
No. 7 Horse Hoe and Cultivator, without Depth
Gauge £4/17/6
Planet Jr.
Seven-tooth
Horse Hoe
and
Cultivator
Combined
£5/5/-
m
The No. 82 machine, though
new, has gained great popularity
because of the large amount and
great variety of work that can be
accomplished with it. Finishes
rows up to 42 inches apart, and
works the middle complete at
one passage. Its reversible side
standards can be changed to any
angle desired; the zigzag frame is
particularly strong, and the seven
teeth ensure fine and thorough
cultivation. In addition to the
regular equipment, other widths
of cultivator-teeth, sweeps, fur-
rowers, turning shovels, can be
added. Price £5/5/-
Agricultural Department—Fourth Floor.
Delivery Free City and Suburbs Only.
Anthony Horderns'
Telephone 1V12401
Day and Night
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O .


ami now
a
OnSeCvesto' lheWaVe
I
m
U
v,Vi
<5
: ssss**— -^r
y_y~ ♦ iL A-4
f 9fc'fr« tPw * fc
7
7
/
-rt
s«
Sra
2&
RlTt
RS
arresting claim/
A fortnight ago the advertisement repro-
duced above appeared throughout Australia.
In this advertisement it was stated that
“there are more bottles of Old
Court Whisky sold in Australia
to-day than of any other single
brand of whisky on the market.*’
The statement has caused a nation-wide
sensation; people are asking “can it be true?”
That it is an exaggeration is openly stated
in some interested quarters.
So—to put the truth of the statement
beyond all question of doubt, Federal
Distilleries Pty. Ltd., here offer to donate
to any charity or charities named by the
contestants, the sum of £l,OOO should the
above claim be proved untrue.
An independent committee would be ap-
pointed who should have access to our
books and to those of any other person
or persons contesting our claim, and their
decision shquld be accepted as final.
This challenge should
satisfy the Australian
Public that Old Court
Whisky is the Nation’s
first favourite and
that it has by sheer
merit secured the most
popular position in
Australia’s Whisky
Market.
‘XMif tTourf
•tWtisln
£)hc Vorlck Purest^
THE NATION’S FIRST FAVORITE


For Any Travel
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
sd
The accredited Agents of all Steam
Ship Lines. Their expert guidance and
special facilities cost you nothing.
TO EUROPE 1930
Apply now for accommodation, as
berthing plans for all steamers are open.
WINTER TOURS
To Queensland, Bali, Java, Siam,
japan, Hawaii, Malaya, Sumatra, Indo-
China (Saigon, Pnom-Penh, Angkor).
STEAMER EXCURSIONS
Cairns, South Sea Islands, Fiji, Tahiti,
Honolulu, Ceylon, Java, Japan and
Manila, etc.
COOKS’ TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
Are the safest and most convenient
means of carrying funds.
Sailing Lists, Programmes and all Information
Post Free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE:
269 Collins Street,
ADELAIDE:
49 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE:
Hibernian Building,
Adelaide Street.
SYDNEY:
Martin Place.
PERTH:
22 Forrest Place.
AUCKLAND:
N.Z. Insurance Building*
Queen Street.
WELLINGTON:
Government Life Building
(Next G.P.0.).
of dream, the gift Avhich only genius, the
major poet, can give. Once he is the
silken Romeo: —
Where the poppy-banners flow
in and out amongst the corn,
spotless morn
ever saw us come and go
hand in hand, as girl and boy
warming fast to youth and maid,
half-afraid
at the hint of passionate joy
hid in summer’s rose unblown....
And one is at liberty to take him on our
ground and say that he charms and haunts
us Avith our music. But it is Lear’s warn-
ing voice that fills the world:—
1 cry to you as I pass your windows in the dusk ;
Ye have built your umnysterious homes and ways
in the wood
where of old ye went with sudden eyes to the right
and left
and your going was now made safe and your staying
comforted,
for the forest edge itself, holding old savagery
in unsearch’d glooms, was your houses’ friendly
barrier.
And now that the year goes winterward, ye thought
to hide
behind vour gleaming panes, and where the hearth
sings merrily
make cheer with meat and wine, and sleep in (lie
long night,
and the uncared wastes might be a crying unhappi-
ness.
But I, who have come from the outer night, I say
to you
the winds are up and terribly will they shake the
dry wood:
the woods shall awake, hearing them, shall awake
to he toss’d and riven,
and make a cry and a parting in your sleep all
night
as the wither’d leaves go whirling all night along
all ways.
And when ye come forth at dawn, uncomforted by
■sleep,
ye shall stand at amaze, beholding all the ways
overbidden
with worthless drift of the dead and alt your
broken world:
and ye shall not know whence the winds have
come, nor shall ye know
whither the yesterdays have fled, or if they were.
Technical analysis of Chris. Brennan’s Avork
can be no part of the object of this article.
Rather it seeks, in the flood of verse-without-
tears, to point to this steady fire that more
may feel its Avarmth and thrill. To me,
he is a major poet now, walking the heights;
and I believe that when we are all dead
he will come into his oavii —for what little
that Avould mean to him, even if it hap-
pened noAV. No poet, since Tennyson ceased
and Browning’s rugged mind stumbled
into the graA r e, has given his hearers more
thought. Never without skill or care in
the craft:—
O white wind, numbing the world
to a mask of suffering hate!
and thy goblin pipes have skirl’d
all night at my broken gate.
O heart, be hidden and kept
in a half-light color’d and warm,
and call on thy dreams that have slept
to charm thee from hate and harm.
They are gone, for I might not keep ;
my sense is beaten and dinn’d-:
. there is no pence but a grey sleep
in the pause of the wind.
But, aboA’e that, always Avith something
deep and true to say. Like BroAvning a
few decades ago, he demands an apprentice-
ship in this facile present of headlines tell-
ing all their easy story in tivo words of
a syllable each. But the apprenticeship
itself is an intellectual, a spiritual fortune.
And beyond it there is the major voice.
What this great, wealth and poAver has
for each hearer, each hearer Avill know and
keep. Life will tire and bedevil us and
our sons, make (is gifts and murder us,
smile and maim; and avc shall go on until
the sands run out. But Brennan av ill* have
a place for us, in his gift of dream, a place
apart and rich with the' unconfessed hope
at the heart of release from the small self.
There what life may do is nothing.
HILARY LOFTING.
Abo. Tales
The Vanished Tribes, by James Devaney
(Cornstalk), is a collection of short stories
and sketches dealing with the traditions
and customs of the Australian aboriginal in
his golden age before the white man came,
and ending on a poignant note when, Avith
disease and ultimate extinction as his chief
gift to the original owners of the land, the
white at last makes his entry.
The book is grimly dedicated to “The
Few That Remain.” As a book to put
into the hand of young Australia, Avho
knows all about the American Indian as
the knoAvledge is imparted by HollyAvood
but is abysmally ignorant of the no less
interesting and picturesque abo., the volume
is invaluable. Not that it is a book written
specially for children —there is an appeal
in every page to the general reader, as
well as to the ethnologist—but the writer’s
knoAvledge of his subject and his grip of the
native customs, magic and folklore will
appeal to those with whom Uncle Remus
and his kind are still a precious people.
There is tragedy and horror in some of the
stories. “The Tale of Pipitta the Light One”
furnishes plenty of the first, and that of
the dead man Avho climbed out of his tree
grave and warmed his rattling bones at the
fire of I-rinka is calculated to raise hair on
a billiard-ball. Plenty of humor, too, for
your abo. was a laughter-loving cuss, though
—in the Avords of -the immortal shoAvman—
“GaAvd knoAvs ’e’s got little enough ter
laugh erbout” now. Indeed, the story of
that self-centred individual Wooloonkoppa,
Avhose three wives sought vainly to do away
Avith him. yet at the last moment Avas res-
cued by them from the astonished assassin
they had hired to do the job, has quite
the modern touch.
Books Worth Reading
This list, compiled by judges nominated
by the Associated Booksellers of Australia
and Maoriland, is printed to serve as a
guide to neiv books of merit: —
. General Literature. —Lord Haldane’s Auto-
biography ; Ireland, by Donn Byrne; The
Vanished Tribes, by James Devaney; An
Ambassador of Peace, Viscount D’Abernon;
The Romance of Modern Travel, by N. J.
Davidson ; Life and Letters of My Days, by
Tim Ilealy. K.C.
No eels of Literary Merit. —Night Falls on
Siva’s Hill, by E. Thompson; Expiation, by
“Elizabeth.”
Norcls for Popular Reading. —Expiation,
by “Elizabeth”; The Datchley Inheritance,
by Stephen McKenna; Lily Christine, by
Michael Alien; Silver Slippers, by Temple
Bailey; Good Gestes, by I*. C. Wren; The
Shadow, by Jeffrey Farnol; The Rogue’s
Moon, by Robt. W. Chambers; Sentinel of
the Desert, by Jackson Gregory; Compro-
mise, by 11. St. John Cooper; Matorni’s Vine-
yard. by R. P. Oppeulieim; Max Flambard,
by John Dailey.
A Satchel of Books
The Hkipper, by Vivian Gordon (Black-
Avood). A vivid series of sketches of the
Kamschatkan salmon fisheries before the out-
break of the Great War. Full of sharp
local color and information about a people
and an industry unknown to the world at
large. •
The Valley of Olympus, by Octavius Iloy
Cohen (Appleton). A reminder of the fact
that the cobbler should stick to his last.
Author of many delightful yarns of American
“cullud pussons,” Cohen falls doAvn heavily
when lie leaves the negro quarter of Bir-
mingham (Alabam.) to write of Hollywood
and movie magnates.
The xEncid of Virgil, Books VII to IX
(Macmillan and Co.). A translation into
Knglish verse by Arthur S. Way, I).Lit., who
has done (lie same for various Latin and
Greek poets and dramatists. The rendering
is exceedingly accurate for a rhymed version,
but there is little of tin 1 "strong wing'd
music" of the hexameter in Dr. Way's long
and rather droning lines. The octogenarian
author was headmaster of Wesley College,
Melbourne, from 1882 to 1892.
Six Mrs. Greenes, by Lorna Rea (Heinc-
mann). The chronicle of half a dozen re-
lated families, in which Mrs. Rea gives a
conscientious picture of respectable upper
middle-class life in England. Inevitably it
is an unexciting picture; and she adds to
the prevailing drabness by her habit of re-
cording what is said irrespective of its value.
The writer of the “blurb” says: “This should
be the most read, most loved and most talked
of novel of the year”—a striking example of
optimism.
A Fatalist at War (Allen and Unwin).
The fatalist is German poet Rudolph Bind-
ing. who went out to fight for his country
in October, 1914, and collapsed from fever
just before the final retreat. A keen observer,
lie set down in his diary what appeared
before his own eyes, and his close-linked,
spontaneous sketches gathered into this
volume make a large moving panorama of
war. A fine “diary” book, excellently trans-
lated by lan F. D. Morrow.
The Profession of Letters, by A. S. Collins
(Routledge ; Dymocks). Anyone who has
read “Authorship in the Days of Johnson”
should need no spurring into continuing the
author’s embracing narrative of the growth
of literature as a' self-supporting profession.
It carries the growth on past Southey—in
the 50 years after Johnson “the only one
truly great man ‘whose whole estate was his
inkstand’ ” —into the 1830’s. The author’s
style is pleasingly conversational; his re-
searches exhaustive.
Barbarian, by Dickson Skinner (Apple-
ton). Stephen Winthrop, a common type of
trying American patrician, decides to forego
refinement and make some money. His foil
is his stock-broking partner, a rich vulgarian
named Matt Hodge. They both love Muriel,
who, like Stephen, is self-consciously the
aristocrat, and Hodge’s millions win her.
Later Stephen balances matters by seducing
her, and she divorces Ilodge for misconduct
with an actress. The book closes with Muriel
on her honeymoon with Stephen and con-
ducting a flirtation with a foreigner, and
Stephen barbarously telling her to drop it
and come back to N. York. A Well-written
book, full of slick characterisation and
shrewd observation, though nearly all its
figures would be better for a bath—and in
one or two cases, a dose —of lysol.
Three Persons, by Sir Andrew Macphail
(Murray). This is a slashing book in the
true and the flapper-vernacular meanings of
the adjective. In three embracing essays the
author studies the lives and war careers of
Field-Marshal Sir Ilenry Wilson, the Irish-
man who hated half Ireland and was mur-
dered by Irishmen; Colonel House, “the
secret emissary of warring nations, the over-
lord of American ambassadors, the single
person whom the American President trusted
and the American people regarded with hom-
age and awe” ; and Lawrence of Arabia. The
studies, based on various writings by and
about these three great war figures, are
written xvitli an unflagging vigor, acute per-
ception and analytical power that add a
fourth great personality to the book —the
personality of the author. He is a man as
much worth knowing as any of his pictur-
esque trio.
Broadcast English, by A. Lloyd James
(8.8. C.). Shaken to its socks by criticism,
the British Broadcasting Co. set out to dis-
cover the correct way of speaking English
A committee which included Robert Bridges
(poet laureate), Sir Johnston Forbes-Robert-
son and G. B. Shaw labored for nearly three
years and found that there was no such thing
as “English,” even in England. There were
dialects peculiar to districts, variants pecu-
liar to classes, district variants in every
class and class variants in every district.
Local variants, however, became more alike,
as the inquirers ascended the social scale, and
finally they charted a belt wherein educated
speakers Avcre more or less in agreement, or,
at any rate, were able to understand each
other. To this belt the committee advised its
broadcasters to loosely confine themselves.
A bitter mortal might suggest that the pro-
grammes are dull enough as it is without
the addition of standardised English.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficie,ntly stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
Tom S.: “Lucky” lias merit as a story,
but is crudely told. Get to work on it... .5.P.8.:
Overstocked in that line; but you ought to be
able to find a market for it. .. .N.S.M.: The ending
isn’t as good as the head and body of it....
Indico: You ask the reader to do what you should
do yourself l —make a story out of a jumbled heap
of material... .N.M. (Bombay): As soon as you
heard him say “All men should be pals” and “If
you don’t do this you are mutts,” you knew he
was an Australian. Alerciful heaven ! Have we fallen
ai low as this?. . . .E.T.: Stories which turn out to
be dreams have to be written much better than that.
....Flig: Thanks, we’ll take it back —,1. R. 0.
Harris, the yachtsman, is a master not of Sydney
Grammar, but of Sydney C. of E. Grammar
S.T.W.: Thanks for introducing us to the criminal
>‘who could smile at the sheer beauty of a mere
forget-me-not in the buttonhole of his hangman s
coat” H.L.C.: Your “Infernal Machine” does
not turn out a finished story. .. .11.T.G.: Clergyman
for the cannibals’ feast a bit overdone.... 8.M.: Too
obvious a take-down.... 8.R.5.: Try the parish
magazine J.S.P.: Too cloudy... .Gemem : No
gem; not even a crystal.... Buff Bates: Closing her
life with “a party” gives it a realistic society touch.
L.Af.H.: Aloonlight blotted out J.L.E.: Too
much lightning C.C.: Staccato twaddle
W. 11.8.: Aledal story spoilt by obscurity of ending.
.... L. 5.0.: By all means —we’ll accept them any
time before December 31. A dozen entries have
already been received... .S.R.: Just missed. Other
things being equal, the cheerful story wins every
time F.F.F.: You don’t explain the change in
your chief character. At the start he roars like a
lion and towards the end coos like a dove....
Wongi (and others): (1) Don’t try to cram all
you know about farming into a single article. Tjke
one point at a time. (2) We'd sooner tackle the
worst of handwriting in good black ink than the
almost invisible heiroglyphs sent in by many type-
writer-using contributors.... E.8.L.: Believe it of
some “quacks”.... I.AV.: A delicate little sketch;
not quite the eggs for our basket.... P.A.: Again
misses fire... .F.AI.: No room for miracles... .Not-
tus: Nottus bright as it might be....8.K.: Trifle
light as air blown back. .. . A.J.H.: Near, but not
there... .J. 11.: Not at home to the introspective
family R.E.: The pug in “Pugnacity” is the
best part of it. .. .8.H.: Glad of the assurance
that “the popular belief as to the existence of
sentiment between a manager and his typist is
largely a myth.” Now would you mind making
inquiries into the relations of the curate and the
choir-girl ?....B.B.: Badly constructed and prolix;
otherwise has merit... .T.W.W.: That ground has
been ploughed before... .G.L.: “A Fair Cow” doesn’t
score a “bull”. . . .T.R.: Constable Jones and the
wallaby are hopping home... .A.A.H.: “The Chiro-
podist’s enchantments” are equalled by the essayist’s
ecstatics.... Rosny: You’re late with that cricket
verse, aren’t you? Or early ?... .R.T.C.: “Epic on
the Southern Cross,” 42 lines, thudded Cee-
aitch: Even so; but the cartoon said all that
C.M.C.: A good topic; strained treatment....
H.W.J.: In the nondescript class M.M.M.: Con-
sole yourself; hundreds have tried to cap the air
tragedy with tragic verse. .. .J.McA.C.: We do en-
courage them, but a reply to something that appeared
last year is hopeless M.O’R.: Not in our line.
C.S.R.: All aged N.R.W.: Y’our muse seems
to have been hamstrung... .T.H.R.: Answer to all
questions is “Yes.” Answer to verse, “N 0”....
A. C. de C.: Odd mixture of prose and verse lines.
. ...E.M.: Just plain emptiness.... Screwnut: A
good grin in the end, but the rest is too loose. .. .
D.A.S.: No offer L.M.: “Trammie’s Song”
punched in the bundy. .. . Bohunkk : In topical verse
every line should have a job... .S.L.R.: “Song of
the Surf” leaves us very cold. .. .M.L.: Over-long
and rambling... .J.8.C.: Verse written on inside
of Capstan packet has joined late contents. ...
T.1.M.: Well off our track C.W.S.: Not up; but
it shows good narrative sense 1 and a fair control of
rough verse. You should be doing better a few
year.i hence.... M.C.: Fairly close. .. .F.G.: “Hush
thee, hush” —the “Call of the Winds” is heard in
exactly that way by almost every versifier. .. .
M.V.M. :■ Your “Aftermath of Crayfish Supper” is
pale beside our “Aftermath of Certain Verse”....
Neophyte: Not our sort. .Haka: It’s rum-te-tum
stuff and no bright ideas. . . .A. 8.: Misses; but miles
better than the usual sob-stuff the Bush inspires.
f.F.M.: Soars no higher than abuse. .. . J.A.E.:
“The Bridge” isn't even a culvert-. ... Fior: Fails to
reach the high standard we set for this column. . : .
G'.L.: Quite unintentional, no doubt owing to lack
of space.... Ayzaid: You belong to the generous
branch of poets—feel dismal yourself and want to
share it all round.... S.C.D.F.: About as feasible as
the shell of a beano. ... K.F.: This column regrets
the “Bridal Car” is just a bit too long for it....
Mintie: “The Bishop” is a good idea wasted in
slender treatment. . . .AV.J.W.: Only middling. .. .
J.V.: We've forgotten whether you make the 3000th
or 33,000 th on that topic 1.K.: Hull —that's
all. .. . Boora: Far too many feet in “Canberra's
Coat of Arms”.... Tuppence: Your theory of Tins
Bulletin’h improving fortune based on the com-
parative perkiness of this column is at least ingeni-
ous. . . .H.A.D.: Fair ; try elsewhere. .. . Bugralong :
A curate's egg verse. .. . J.U’C.: “Life of the Dognian”
not taken.... T.G.W.: Competently done, but the
idea is slender... .G.V.: “Fisherman’s Luck” is out.
. ...A.8.: “Galloping Jim” would need to have a
lot of the roiifth corners knocked off before he’d
be presentable. .. .G.C.: Poor old Johnny !.... H.B.
(87) : Not quite, but better in every respect than
the work of a few score youngsters we’ve read
this morning. .. .C.K. : Good stuff in it, but un-
satisfying as a whole. ...D.P.: Try another address
with it.... ALT.: Neat as experiments, but they’re
no more. .. .T.W.N.: Try again; there’s promise.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Af.L.R.: Use better bait if you want to capture us.
. ...F.H.: All your friends seem to dine on door-
knobs. .. .F.AL: Fair, but colored head-studies are
not much use here. . . .H.S.: Our eyes did not
wander to it a second time... . R.F.: Your frenzied
scratches don’t do justice to the gags... .N.W.:
The joke has done time and the drawing is unim-
pressive. ... D.D.T.: A collection of petrified figures
and tame gags. .. .C.W.J.H.: The amorous herbalist
was fired... .Y.M.: You’re at the bottom of this
week’s class... .H.Q.: We’ve got such a queue of
flappers on the mat that we’re afraid we’ll have to
do without yours.... F.M.S.: Certainly; we’re
hungrier for good gags than for anything else in
the world. You needn’t send any sort of drawing
with them.


9
- Mi i/%, •',
lIP j| .
<■* )
<fc...m J
VHI
f . *4fat .
. . ■ ■ ■ ■ ■
■ '
.• *;{%,
h «
t^J
te
3
-•' m
t II
c
\
%■ ’"
1 I fi
/ffe
hhb
, : ■
A A' :^
.iW:
BB
■■■
Hi
* a&P . . |\
i \
iM ' j - , I '
Wl; IB
-
k. mmmm:«,. ■ . 'nflrWh _
mm
.11 P
I
;a*s
!■■■■■■
. ■ '■ •
1 ■■■
MR
MPi
l\
#*S| l ns
m * l|« giP BBk
flf iBBB
1 i
\wM 6 ■!
W 7 I* j
t|(f I i J
\ ,*“
mm 4
La
"\aA |A ■■'
'v < I
Agents for New South Wales: MESSRS. TUCKER & CO., LTD.


The Bulletin
Vol. 50. —No. 2572.
May 29, 1929.
WHO SHALL WEAR THE CROWN?
"There is no likelihood of either Labor or Liberalism getting a clear majority at the coming British general elections.”
THE INVALID: “It’s going to be very uncomfortable for somebody if I die.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
21) Georye Street, Sydney; Box 252188.
Victoria: lt)-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 2)9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: James Place, Adelaide.
Westralia: S 3 Barrack Street, Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to ant address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 )s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s.
To anv address Overseas: 12 months, £ 1 10*.;
6 months, 15s. 6d.; 3 months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: 10oz., Id. United Kingdom: )oz. to 10oz., 1 id. ;
each additional )oz., Id. All Sea Route: 160 z., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: )oz. or part thereof.
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PAGE LITERARY ARTICLES . . 2, 5
OUR HISTORY OF THE WAR—
Is It the Last Word? 2
CHRIS. J. BRENNAN 2, 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . . . 5
THE BRITISH ELECTIONS—
A Front-page Cartoon by Percival . . 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
BETTER THAN EMPIRE WEEK .. ..8
TWO AND TWO STILL MAKE FOUR .. 8
THE “HOLY GHOST” OF THE NAVY—
By J. H. M. Abbott 8
REFORMERS WHO ARE TOO SCARED TO
REFORM 8
UNIVERSITY EXCESSES—WHO IS TO
BLAME ? 9
AIRCRAFT OR NAVY? 9
THE UNDERGRADS’ OUTBREAK—
A Cartoon by Scorfield .. .. 9
POLITICS (with caricatures) . . .. . . 10
SOCIETY (with drawings) . . . . . . 11, 12
PERSONAL (with three drawings) . . . . 14
POVERTY POINT 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..17
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
COLONIAL SUGAR 18
PRIMARY PRODUCERS’ BANK .. ..18
STANDARD-WAYGOOD 18
BURNS-PI-lILP (SOUTH SEAS) .. 18, 20
ABORIGINALITIES (with drawings) . . 23, 25
Free Service Department • • .. 26
MAN ON THE LAND 28, 32
THE CHEMISTRY OF WHEAT 28
RAISINS AS SHEEP FODDER 28
SMOKE-OH 3^
PEN AND PICTURE 37
SPORTING (Illustrated) 39, 41, 42
A.J.C. WINTER FORECASTS 39
AVARWICK FARM RACES 39
BUSINESS, ROBBERY, ETC 42
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 44
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 46
OTHER CAPITALS’ COSSIP 49
“The Quartermaster” • • 50 > 51 > 52 > 58
VERSE 58
“SHIPS THAT NEVER RETURN”—
By E. J. Brady . . • • • • .. 58
“TRAMPING WIND,” by M. Forrest .... •• 58
“FATE,” by R. Crawford . . ■■ ..58
“THE LEGACY,” by David McKee Wright .. 58
SPECIAL ARTICLE—
“A LOOK AT LONDON”—
By Arthur 11. Adams .. .. 55, 57
STORY—
“THE CITY OF SILENCE”—
By lon L. Idriess . . • . • • 57, 58
Next Week.
The Education Conference at Vancouver—by an
Australian delegate.
The Naval Training College at Jervis Bay—by
J. 11. M. Abbott.
A charming drawing by -Norman Lindsay.
For other features see page 52.
tfuf fyulleiz/7l
WEDNESDAY, MAY 29, 1929.
BETTER THAN EMPIRE WEEK.
Two key-products from a nation-building
standpoint in these days are motor-cars,
which stand for land transport to an ever-
increasing extent, and are bound up with
the development of air transport; and films,
which do the most effective work as over-
seas advertising agents. The Common-
wealth spends nearly twice as much year by
year on American cars as it receives in
wool-payments from Britain; and it shows
in its leading picture-houses 15 U.S. to
every one British film. Sydney’s new State
Theatre chose Empire Shopping Week to
make the significant announcement that it
was opening its career with “six master-
piece releases secured for £lO,OOO” —all
American, and all with Hollywood stars.
The Commonwealth tries to make up
for its cold welcome of British cars and
films by assisting British migrants. But,
after all, they are the merest handful.
During the 12 months to the end of January
this year, 4634 families tried to come here,
and 2937 brought it off; 21,417 individuals
applied for the privilege, and 10,444 were
accepted. And even that number is likely
to shrink if British statecraft finds a remedy,
or even a partial remedy, for unemploy-
ment. . .
If the advantages of buying from Britain
were only a recent discovery, we might
overlook these distressing figures. But
“trade within the Empire” was talked of
far more in Parkes’s day than it is now;
indeed, the very fact that May 24 was
chosen for “Empire Day” suggests that the
idea behind it all is associated with the
Victorian period.
In the circumstances, it looks as though
Australia might do a great deal better work
for the Empire by building up those indus-
tries without which it will never get any-
where—might do better work than if, as
several papers loyally suggest, it made every
week an Empire Shopping Week. In this
way we would at least send less money to
Britain’s chief trade rival, and strengthen
the Empire economically to the extent that
we strengthen ourselves. But to do it we
must achieve population, and one thing that
stands in the way of that is what nowadays
is called our “superiority complex”—in plain
English, our infernal habit of thinking that
we are so much the salt of the earth that
ordinary rules don’t apply to us. The
unpalatable truth is that the despised
southem-Europe races, for example, are
our masters in those industrial fields
which count most nowadays. Italy, which
was even harder hit by the war than France,
has built up a motor-car industry that has
virtually driven foreign cars off Italian
roads; and Italian cars are exported to the
value of £20,000,000 p.a. Spain turns out
a world-famous car, and it makes its air-
craft, complete from engines to navigation
instruments, in Spanish workshops. And
both have growing film industries. Aus-
tralia is one of the world’s leading car-
users relatively to population, yet the
Australian car is still in the womb of time.
We have produced many famous airmen,
but never an aeroplane. We spend millions
on importing films, but, so far as the world
knows, we have never made a picture.
Where our energy has won renown abroad
has been in providing magnificent race-
courses, model cricket grounds and tennis
courts which “rival the centre court at
Wimbledon itself.” The name of Australia
is associated otherwise more with losing old
industries than with the creation of new
ones—that S. Australia has found it cheaper
to import coal from Britain than from N. S.
Wales is already world-wide knowledge.
“Ca’ canny” in all its forms has been
abandoned by enlightened modem workers,
and the watchword, more especially in
America, is “Productivity allied to high
protection.” If Australia does not get into
the ranks of the industrial producers before
long—if it does not rely on hard toil instead
of political action—then nothing is surer
than that it is going to get out of the ranks
of those nations that can afford foreign
luxuries of either British or American
origin.
TWO AND TWO STILL MAKE FOUR.
The N.S.W. Railway Commissioners receive
this year the first annual £BOO,OOO from the
Treasury to make their accounts look better
than they are. It was believed that after
this pious juggle these accounts would
show a small profit; as a matter of fact,
a further loss of £1,000,000 is in sight. It
would be easy to make the aid from the
Treasury, in the shape of a cheque on the
Bank of Nowhere, £1,800,000 instead of
£800,000; but, thousands or millions, the
actual money remains to be found somehow
and some time.
Among the causes which have contri-
buted to the appalling deficit are the re-
imposition of the Child Endowment tax,
loss of business through industrial disturb-
ances, and the steady growth of the interest
bill through the building of new lines,
mostly unpayable, with money raised at 5i
per cent. The Ma State had 881 people to
support each mile of railway in 1880; 482
in 1900; and 413 in 1927. And construction
costs increased immensely meantime.
Finally Bruce’s wonderful Wage Adjust-
ment Court has just added a few more
shillings per employee per week to the
wages bill.
By way of cheering him up, a deputation
from the Railways Union lately called on
Treasurer Stevens with some sugges-
tions. These included a reduction in
the number of inspectors; an expensive
reconstruction of the lines to allow of
speedier travel; retrenchment, if necessary,
to begin with officers who would automati-
cally commence to receive pensions, so that
the loss in pensions would counterbalance
the saving in pay; non-pensionable officers
who are retired to receive the basic wage
till they find new jobs to their liking;
all bonuses for extra-good work to be
abolished; and, finally, the union’s hold on
its members to be strengthened by power
to garnishee their wages for unpaid “dues.”
For a Treasurer in severe monetary straits
a more chilly deputation could hardly have
been invented. It showed an utter failure
to realise the perilous position the State
is in. The Bulletin has no doubt these
railwaymen are honest people who believe
that N. S. Wales can afford to pay out a bit
more. They, like tens of thousands of
others, have not the faintest idea that
the State has only been able to pay out at
the old rate by borrowing more than 10
millions a year for many years past. On
that money we have to pay interest; but
we have dodged for the moment that small
difficulty by borrowing to pay the interest,
too. Now, that is all very well so long
as the Cohens of the world will go on
lending. In the early ’nineties there were
Australian banks which had no hesitation
about paying 15 per cent, dividends —and
could and did as long as foreign capitalists
lent them money on deposit. The smash
came when the flow of deposit in one\
ceased; and already we have had warnings
that the river of loans to Australian Gov-
ernments is running very low.
But that is not the vital matter, after all:
the vital matter is that for years past
neither N. S. Wales nor any other Aus-
tralian State has paid its way; that N. b.
Wales alone has been anything up to 15
millions short in a year, notwithstanding
extraordinary prices for wool (exports in
1924 were 43 millions and imports 58
millions); that to live within our means
we must produce without extra outlay up
to 15 millions more in a year; and that it
we cannot produce that much more we
must make our outgoings that much less.
Nearly two years ago The Bulletin
urged labor unions to make themselves
better acquainted with Australia’s economic
position. A few of their leaders cer-
tainly have met the Big Four; but the
Big Four were themselves students of
Australian conditions, and the fact that a
deputation representing one of the great
unions can suggest “economies” that will
cost, on its own admission, a quarter of a
million a year, shows that most dangerous
ignorance still prevails about what Aus-
tralia can afford to pay for the work that
is done for it. Nobody is going to benefit
by playing the ostrich _ game. Maybe the
person who calls himself a militant has
the delusion that, even if we can’t pay the
interest, it is the capitalist who will suffer.
Of course the capitalist will suffer. But
when the capitalist suffers it is the capital-
ist’s cook who gets the sack, and the
capitalist’s jobbing-gardener who loses an-
other couple of days’ work a week. And
it is the bricklayer and carpenter who
find that the additions to the factory are
stopped; and in the slack trade that follows
it is the shop-assistant who isn’t wanted.
THE HOLY GHOST OF THE NAVY.
When you go aboard an Australian war-
ship, and fail to take your hat off to the
quarter-deck, though nobody, if you are
not in the Navy, will reprove you for the
omission, you will acquire a reputation for
Deing a mannerless and irreverent person
who would walk into a church with his head
covered. An Admiral is a very big gun on
his own flagship, but there is something
that is even greater hovering around the
quarter-deck—some intangible . but very
active and influential spiritual presence —
whose existence he always acknowledges
with befitting reverence whenever he arrives
at its haunting-ground.
A week’s investigation recently, when
afloat in an Australian man-o’-war, trying
to determine what the spiritual attribute
of the quarter-deck really might be, led me
to a conclusion, in the end, that it was
nothing less than the Navy’s Holy Ghost.
And when you come to look into the
matter of the salute you can hardly fail
to be convinced that there is, indeed, some-
thing of a tribute to some vague and ghostly
entity implied in the homage paid to the
area of well-scrubbed planking over which
the Cross of St. George waves in the breeze
from the flagstaff at the stern when in
port and from the gaff on the high seas.
Long ago there was a shrine on the
quarter-deck of every British man-o’-war,
dedicated to some saint, in the break of
the poop, and all who passed it by were
wont to cross themselves. As they made the
sacred sign those old-time mariners mur-
mured a prayer for good luck. Nowadays
Bill Jones, of Sandy Creek, having aban-
doned the ancestral cow-bail for the R.A.N.,
does unconsciously what Giles Smith,
yeoman-mariner, used to do in the fifteenth
century after he had cleared out of the
paternal byre at Mumble-in-the-Dale, and
gone to serve in a King’s ship. Perfunc-
torily he raises a couple of fingers to his
cap, and thinks he is merely avoiding giving
annoyance to the officer-of-the-watch. In
reality he is crossing himself and uttering
a little prayer that the Commander’s heart
may be softened towards fiim and his fel-
lows, or that his application for shore-leave
may be considered favorably, or that there
may be roast pork for the mid-day meal.
(They feed well in the R.A.N.) He is not
saluting Authority so much as imploring
divine protection. If he fails to salute
he is not only committing an act of negli-
gent insubordination, he is guilty of gross
impiety. He is slightly mutinous, and in
the Navy mutiny is the Sin against the
Holy Ghost, for which there is no pardon.
And this brings us to a conclusion that
the Holy Ghost of the quarter-deck is the
spirit of discipline.
There is a queer legend that neither the
Australian soldier nor the Australian sailor
is amenable to discipline. The exploits
of the A.l.F.—Mont St. Quentin, for in-
stance —would have been impossible 'with-
out discipline of the highest order, and the
R.A.N. could not endure unless it existed
fundamentally in its organisation and
routine. The discipline of the parent
navy is in it to the fullest degree
—with this difference, perhaps, that in
Australian ships orders are carried out
less stolidly than they are in English
man-o’-wars. But they are carried
out to the letter, and with an efficiency
and intelligence that never fails to please
exchange officers from the Royal Navy
when they serve with our branch of it.
“Come up here,” said the Gunnery Officer,
“and see me win a cocktail.” He led the
way to the raised platform abaft the
three funnels, where the four anti-aircraft
guns pointed brown muzzles into the clear
sky, explaining that whenever the two sea-
boats practised their “man-overboard” stunt
he had a bet on with the Torpedo Officer
as to the superior skill, speed, and efficiency
of the one manned by the starboard watch.
So we stood up there and looked for’ard at
a bit of drill that left little doubt in one
mind, at any rate, as to the disciplinary
attainments of the Australian bluejacket.
As the ship slowed down on approaching
her anchorage, a signal was given from the
bridge, and the sentries who are always
stationed aft on either side when at sea
threw over the lifebuoys under their charge,
which went floating down the wake, with
the canisters that make a flare at night
indicating their position by two curling
whiffs of smoke.
A bugle rang out amidships, and there
was immediately a rush of lifebelted men to
each boat. They swarmed into their
respective craft, and then, either watch
hanging on to the ropes, were lowered swiftly
but safely to the surface of the sea, where
they swirled outwards from the ship’s sides,
were cast loose from the tackle, and got
out their oars. With a quickness that was
astonishing to a landsman they were both
immediately pulling back, as hard as they
could go, to where the smoking buoys
drifted astern, half a mile away.
As they raced to the ship after picking
up the buoys, the starboard boat took and
maintained a lead that brought her beneath
her dangling tackle two and a half minutes
ahead of her rival. Quickly the falls were
attached to the boat, and she came up the
side to the davits as the port boat passed
the flagship’s stem. A hundred—maybe
more—men tailed on to the ropes and ran
away aft, whilst the band inspired their
brisk activities. One stood amazed at the
speed and smoothness with which the exer-
cise had been carried out. Surely nothing
could have been a better demonstration of
the state of discipline and readiness main-
tained in the ship ! Here was the inspira-
tion of their peculiar Holy Ghost.
“Shows what discipline can do!” I said.
“Oh—a bit slow,” commented “Guns.”
“But it’s cost old ‘Torps’ two cocktails!”
J.H.M.A.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Reformers Who Are too Scared to
Reform.
The difficulties in the way of the reformer,
especially the numerous one who is quite
unfit for the part, were exemplified some
more within the last week or two. the
trouble was partly concerned, as usual, with
railways. The harassed N.S.W. Commis-
sioners proposed to “serve a log” on the
employees, and it was rumored that an
eight ' hours day might be among the
demands. Whereupon the union chiefs inti-
mated that the employees, as bosses of the
lines, would stand no interference with the
Lang Ministry’s 7i hours day. And the
Government hastened to interpose, and drew
attention to the fact that Premier Bavin
had made a bid for votes during his electoral
campaign by promising that the valuable
legislation of his esteemed predecessor
wouldn’t be interfered with in this respect.
The promise wasn’t conditional on the
Federal Arbitration Court not upsetting
present arrangements by adding half a
million or so to the annual interest bill.
• It was just a definite buying of votes.
Reform is difficult when the stern new
leader, after denouncing the mad extrava-
gance of his predecessor, promises that he
won’t reverse any of the wicked individual’s
specific acts, but will only “practise
economy” in a general way.
The uiter recklessness of loan expenditure
is a favorite theme with the reforming
Ministry. The reformers are always strenu-
ous on the point that they will confine their
loan spendings to reproductive works. But
the construction of hopeless railways (hope-
less till there is a large increase of popu-
lation) in hopeless places goes on apace.
Taking N.S.W. as a sample, 1927-28 was the
prize year for loan expenditure in its
history, and taking the States as a whole
it was far the worst year in history. Aus-
tralia’s tax bill is now £l4, ss. per head. It
has risen by £2 Is. sd. in the last four years
and by £s* 16s. 6d. in the last eight years;
and by much more if the new child-endow-
ment and various municipal charges are
taken into account. These figures make a
pitiful joke of the claim that the works in
which ioan moneys are “invested” are “re-
productive.”
The Federal Government has troubles
enough and to spare, and it could save about
£670,000 per annum by abolishing the baby
bonus, established years ago to demonstrate
that Australia was rich enough to throw
money about. But to do that it would have
to declare that its Labor predecessor of
1912 was a blunderer, and it hates to sug-
gest such a thing. And Bavin and Co.
would hate equally to imply that Lang’s
44-hours and Child Endowment are any-
thing but the work of a great and farsee-
ing statesman, even though the endowment
may involve a serious charge which short-
hour industry is far from fitted to stand.
Considering this appreciation, why did the
Bavinshaws take so much trouble to shift
Lang? It looks more like personal greed
for office than patriotism or anything else.
Butler’s New Drink Cure.
When urged to borrow" money to start
relief works, Premier Butler, of South Aus.,
said:—
“If borrowing a million pounds would put
an end to our financial and industrial troubles
I would do it to-morrow. But where would


SERGEANT DISORDER WELCOMES A RECRUIT.
such a policy lead us? It would undoubtedly
make the Government temporarily popular,
hut surely people have had enough of Govern-
ments who have succeeded in achieving popu-
larity and political support by spending
money without material benefit to the State.”
That was six months ago; to-day he is
proudly fathering a Loan Bill for £6,100,000,
all to be spent in the coming financial
year.
This further addition to the huge load
under which the State is staggering will carry
the total indebtedness over £100,000,000
and increase the people’s liability more
than £lO per head, making the total nearly
£l7O per capita. It will, too, add another
£350,000 to the annual interest bill, which
overburdened taxpayers cannot pay in full
now. To make matters worse, the six mil-
lions is to be expended in directions which
will not increase the production of the
State nor assist the people in any other way
to more easily meet their old liabilities, not
to mention their new commitments. It is
for the greater part luxury expenditure, and
not even indirectly reproductive.
No doubt it is difficult for Butler to pull
through without borrowing. A sudden stop-
page may be impossible, or at least dan-
gerous in practice. But this isn’t even
gradual stoppage. It is a wild jag indulged
in for no other reason than that the result
of all previous jags has been to make the
State incapable of living on its own re-
sources. Butler’s idea of a drink-cure is
to turn the patient loose in a brewery.
♦
University Excesses.
When an army regiment gets out of hand
and plays up, the actual delinquents, or
their ringleaders, have to pay the penalty,
but the War Office is quite unlikely to hold
the officers blameless. And there are few
with any personal knowledge of English
public schools and universities who are not
well aware that disturbances are certain
to follow the absence of a strong hand at
the top there also. If such disturbances are
repeated, if liberty is seen developing into
deplorable license again and again—and the
record of Sydney Uni. in this regard of
recent years is not an enviable one—it is
safe to conclude that there is a screw vei;y
loose in the matter of academic discipline.
Periodically the cables report scenes of
glorified larrikinism in which Oxford or
Cambridge students are concerned; but
more often than not they are perpetrated
in London, and the most outrageous of
recent years have not occurred in term-time.
If the responsible heads of Sydney Univer-
sity cannot exercise proper control over
undergraduates in their home town and in
term time, it is a sorry admission of in-
capacity for what is, after all, an essen-
tial part of their job. Professors with the
very highest scholastic attainments are
frequently found to be poor administrative
heads; one might go even further and
question if the best instructors of youth
are often the best enforcers of salutary
discipline. Cecil Rhodes, when he drew up
his famous endowment scheme, was reluct-
ant to give Oxford dons more say than he
could help about the administration of it,
financially or in general details. He left
upon record his view that University pro-
fessors, living cloistered lives, were often
no more than children in the ways of the
world. Such well-meaning pedagogues, in-
effective outside the subjects upon which
they lecture, are by no means confined to
Oxford. If they are not leavened with
some material of tougher fibre, discipline is
certain to suffer.
At the bar of public opinion Sydney’s
riotous undergraduates have been convicted
of atrocious excesses. Are those who have
failed so lamentably to control them to
escape indictment?
♦
Aircraft or Navy?
Dear Bulletin, —“Ezra” (B. 15/5/’29) pur-
ports to criticise my arguments for a Navy,
as against Air Forces and Infantry, as
Australia’s best weapon of defence. I made
two plain statements of fact: (1) That
Australia is an island; and (2) that an
island wholly occupied by one people
won’t need an army for defence purposes
if its navy can prevent the enemy landing.
I did not nor do I propose to gibe at
the Air Service or the P. 8.1. The Air
Service and the Army are magnificent
services, and no member of them will for
one moment construe my suggestion that
the Air Force is not yet the deciding factor
in warfare as a gibe against the service
itself.
“Ezra” says that “the Navy must work
in conjunction with the land forces if it is
to win,” and he cites Waterloo, an entirely
military affair, and Trafalgar, an entirely
naval one. Each was a complete victory,
and in neither was the sister service con-
cerned, except that had Waterloo turned
out differently the British Navy would have
had to play its usual part of preventing the
invasion of England, and that if Trafalgar
had not been a victory for us Napoleon
might not have disbanded his Boulogne
army— his P. 8.1. waiting to invade us if
our Navy let it. The Armada is another
case in point. There, Queen Elizabeth
held the P. 8.1. in readiness and harangued
them mightily (at Smithfield, I think), but
they weren’t wanted because the Navy did
all that was required. Which is just my
argument—where defence is concerned. If
Elizabeth had known positively that her
navy could do all that was necessary, she
could have saved herself a journey to
Smithfield—or wherever it was she delivered
the harangue.
I beg leave also to quote Admiral Sir
Cyprian Bridge, G.C.8., one of the greatest
pre-war writers on sea warfare:—
“We of the present generation are at last
aware of the fact of the significance of
naval defence, and know that, if properly
utilised, it is the best security against inva-
sion that a sea-surrounded State can enjoy.
It is not, however, commonly remembered
that the same condition of security existed
and was properly valued in mediaeval times.
The Battle of Sluys in 1340 rendered inva-
sion of England as impracticable as did that
of La Hogue in 1692. that of Quiberon Bay
in 1759, and that of Trafalgar in 1805; and
it permitted, as did those battles, the trans-
port of troops to the continent to support our
Allies, in wars which, had we not been strong
at sea, would have been waged on the soil
of our own country.”
From time almost immemorial inventions
have challenged the sea-borne vessel as the
final arbiter of the destiny of England—an
island kingdom—and always the Navy has
ultimately adopted the newcomers as
adjuncts and allies. Fireships, guns them-
selves and torpedoes come within this
category. And now comes the air-borne
vessel, destined in my opinion also to be-
come an adjunct and a mighty useful one.
But as to supersession or the utility of
aircraft except as an auxiliary to the sur-
face vessel, the opinion of Admiral E. R. G.
R. Evans, the recently-arrived C.-in-C. of
the Australian Navy, is worth quoting:—
“As to whether aircraft will supersede war-
ships in general, and cruisers in particular,
there can be only one opinion. That is, that
none of us will ever live to see this change.”
This controversy started before Evans had
made the above statement, and as I haven’t
seen him or written to him since 1905, I
didn’t prompt the remark, though I
thoroughly endorse it.—Yours, etc., X.N.O.
4
The Infant at the Wheel.
A man was fined 20s. at Geelong for “aid-
ing and abetting his 15-year-old son to
drive a car on a public highway without
a license.” He appealed to the Supreme
Court. Justice Mann ruled that, while the
Vic Motor-car Act provides that no one
shall be licensed to drive who is under 18
years of age, it does not debar persons from
learning to drive at any age. So the father’s-
conviction was set aside, with costs. Now,
therefore, any child can legally drive a car
in public in Victoria so long as he (or
she) is “a bona fide learner”— i.e., “with-
out skill in working the controls and
manipulating the guiding parts of the car,
and what the Justices have called 'road
sense.’ ”
The worst motoring menaces hitherto—
drunks always excepted—have been young
drivers, male and female, with a little skill
and road sense, but not enough. If this
band is to be enlarged by thousands whose
sole qualification as drivers is their com-
plete incompetence, then the tally of road
accidents is going to be enormously in-
creased.
4
“Artificial Disputes.”
From A. G. Alanson, general secretary of
the Federated State School-teachers of
Australia:—
Re the remarks on “Artificial Disputes”
(B. 15/5/’29), the adjective would suggest
that the claim of the association to be heard
before the Federal Arbitration Court was a
concocted scheme for trying to get that Court
to include a body of Australian employees
who are not entitled to arbitration. There is,
however, nothing artificial in the claim.
When the first Bavin Government took
arbitration away from State servants, the
F.S.S.T.A.A. was formed to appeal to the
Federal Cojirt; and registration was granted.
The association includes four States, and has
over 20,000 members. Two States, Victoria
and Tasmania, have no form of arbitration
to which to appeal against the doles allotted
by Governments to State school-teachers
where no independent tribunal fixes pay-
ments. Victoria and Tasmania, therefore, are
more than justified in their claim upon
Federal arbitration through that position
alone.
Further, has not every Australian body of
employees the right to claim the full benefits
of Australian institutions? If it has not,
then injustice is being done to Australians,
and the amendment of the Constitution is
immediately necessary.
The claim of the teachers was no more
artificial than most other claims that have
come before the Federal Arbitration Court.
But, then, most of those claims have been
artificial. The object of the framers of
the Federal Constitution was quite clear.
In the original draft, industrial arbitration
had no place. But it happened that among
the S. Australian members of the Conven-
tion was J. H. Howe, who had represented
Pt. Pirie in the province’s Parliament; and
Pt. Pirie had suffered greatly through
having its smelters thrown idle by strikes
across the border at Broken Hill. He pro-
posed, and the Convention agreed, that the
Federation should have power to deal with
disputes in an industry which was thus
carried on in more than one State. As
soon, however, as Labor unions saw that
they could get more from the Federal Arbi-
tration Court than from a State body, they
formed Federal unions, and thus manufac-
tured Federal disputes. But it was a gross
misuse of the intended functions of the
Federal Court, none the less.
*
Architecture in Melbourne.
Some recent building achievements .in the
picture-palace line in Melbourne have
moved the Vic. Institute of Architects to
form an advisory committee in the pious
hope that municipalities and other public
authorities will come to it for light and
leading. The proposal rather suggests a
committee of hangmen to abolish capital
punishment. It was some forward-looking
architect who started the Melbourne boom
in Moorish bungalows; so, too, every ridicu-
lous endeavor to make a workman’s cottage
look like a cross between a Greek temple
and a Mohammedan seraglio has originated
in an architect armed with the latest copies
of American and German technical journals.
In the institute’s own exhibitions signs of
a sane" and distinctive Australian design are
conspicuous by their absence.
One would feel more confidence, then, in
the committee if it started giving some
advice to the members of the institute first.
♦
That Vic. State upper-servants sent on
trips abroad at public expense did not have
to give an undertaking that they would
serve the State for a specified period after
their return has always been a mystery to
the humbler public servants, who have
always had to do so. Every winner of a
teaching scholarship tenable for three years
at a district high school has always signed
a bond to teach for at least three years in
the service. All teacher students-in-training
sign a similar bond, the amount stipulated
being £5O for every year spent in the
teachers’ colleges. And it has been col-
lected, too; whether those ladies who have
parted up in order to get married are better
off is another question. There is no doubt,
however, that those teachers \yho paid the
bond and joined the N.S.W. service are
better off by an average of about £2 a week.


sa
- *
5
S. 786
Quick Starting in Cold Weather
The bother and annoyance of slow starting are unknown to
SHELL Motorists. The volatility of SHELL Spirit and the
fluidity of SHELL Oil remain unaffected at the low tempera-
tures where other motor spirit and oils are heavy and sluggish.
Fill up with the best Spirit and Oil the SHELL Pair and
experience the pleasure of a summer start on a winter morning.
CUI7T ¥ Motor Oil
dnIZiLiJU and Spirit
From Sealed Equipment
for pour protection
fUwUSljjj
OILS
POLITCAL
POINTS
After being lost for eight days Moir and
Owen, the round-the-world aviators, were
found by Captain L. J. Brain —the dis-
coverer also of the Kookaburra—at Cape
Don. This is the final projection of the
Coburg Peninsula, and far east of the track
the fliers should have followed. Which sug-
gests that before men are permitted to take
CAPTAIN L. J. BRAIN.
long-distance flights over water or little-
known country they ought to be compelled to
satisfy some authority that they are very
competent navigators as well as But
more than anything, the fact that these'men
were unfound for eight days although they
were looked for suggests that less friendly
visitors might do a lot of mischief in North-
ern Australia before their presence was even
suspected.
The Moore Ministry has decided to try the
contract system instead of day labor on all
important Queensland public works. It
seems to realise that there is nothing to be
gained by going slow with reforms. If a
Cabinet crowds a lot of them into its first
year, then there are two clear years before
the election to prove their value, and get
the people accustomed to them, and_ exhaust
the Opposition’s stock of objurgations and
evil prophecies.
The Premiers’ Conference is an index to
the distrust the Labor party has earned by
its flirting with the Reds. At the Con-
ference in 1927 there were five Labor Pre-
miers and one Nationalist; this year there
are five Nationalists, and Collier (W.A.) alone
remains to represent the party whose chances
the ex-parson Garden and co. have spoiled.
While Treasurer
under Bowser and
Lawson for six years
(1917-23) Premier
McPherson (Vic.)
never had a deficit,
but landed surpluses
every time. It looks
as if he will be able
to balance the ledger
or go within an ace
of it on June 30. The
railways will probably
come out level, and
they are always the
main cause of debit
balances.
The Premier of
South Aus. has an-
nounced that his State
will borrow £6,000,000
this year, which will
be between £lO and
£ll per inhabitant.
It will cost about
McPherson hopes
for the best.
£320,000 in interest,
but, even so, Butler says that some
of the new tax imposed lately may be re-
mitted if the railway and harbor revenues
improve, and if the Federal Treasurer comes
up to the scratch with the new annual tem-
porary grant of £500,000. The Federal Trea-
surer is scratching like the very deuce him-
self, and raising a cloud of dust, but he
may manage it.
The new Queensland Government has made
a good start with an announcement that the
Rural Award will be suspended by order-in-
council. The award, in existence 15 months,
prescribes wages up to £5 a week, everything
over 44 hours per week to be paid time and
a half. It is reckoned that a thousand men
were put out of employment in south-eastern
Queensland alone by this arrangement, which
forbade them to work except at a rate, in
many cases impossible, but didn’t tell them
what to do instead.
To the State Premiers’ conference with
Federal representatives, the Federal Govern-
ment will contribute a statement that an all-
Australia child endowment scheme is quite
impracticable, and is apparently beyond the
Commonwealth’s constitutional powers, any-
how. For that matter it is hard to find
authority in the Constitution for new-baby
endowment either. It has to some extent the
sanction of time, but so has the execution
of Charles 1.. which becomes no more legal
as the years straggle along. While the autho-
rities are making sure on the child-bonus
point, they might well therefore dig into the
matter of the legality of the fiver paid to
father to wet the baby’s head.
The three Communists who are supposed
to be controlling or directing or doing some-
thing or other in the way of perpetuating
Sydney’s part of the futile timber strike val-
orously went to gaol last week rather than
pay fines for leading an illegal procession.
But after a night in the cells their respect
for the law had improved to such an extent
that they decided to appeal against their
convictions and were released on bail. As
the S. M. Herald put it, “they returned to
the Trades Hall and resumed their duties
immediately as directors of the strike.”
Strikes are either legal or illegal. If they
are legal, then the public ought to know it
so that it might be prepared to stand a siege;
if they are illegal, it seems merely idiotic
to release men from gaol in order that they
may resume their pastime of law-breaking.
McPhee, of Tasmania, had his own little
dirge to sing in the Premiers’ Conference at
Canberra, wheye dirges were the popular
ditty. Instead of getting the small surplus
he anticipated and deserved —deserved be-
cause Tasmania is the one State that has
practised some real economy—-floods will
land him with a deficit. Besides causing a
serious loss of revenue, those floods are going
to cost a lot of money in repair jobs—much
more than the small Speck can afford; and
the Commonwealth will be asked to lend a
hand. But it can make its own terms; and
one might well be that the local Parliament
shall do more than it has done so far to
break up big arable estates. On that ques-
tion probably Bruce’s Development and
Migration Commission might make some
helpful remarks.
The McPherson Government showed some
mild resolution in connection with the timber-
workers’ strike. It announced its determina-
tion not to allow night processions through
the city, so the Trades Hall fixed the hour
for the weekly march at 4 p.m. After con-
sultation with Blarney, however, they agreed
to start at three, so as not to incommode the
traffic. The promise was honored, but the
pace was set so slow that the parade was
still crawling across the principal intersec-
tions when the peak hour of traffic ap-
proached. Whom the fools thought benefited
by the congestion, Heaven only knows.
The imported secretary of the N. S. Wales
branch of the A.It.U. made himself and the
railwaymen who followed his lead ridiculous
at last week’s conference by commanding the
N.S.W. Railway Commissioners to confiscate
all motor vehicles used for “transport”
(whatever that means) and put them under
“monopolist control.” The object of this
frantic foolishness is quite obvious. So long
as privately-owned motor passenger and
freight services are available a railway strike
isn’t likely to cripple the community, nor is
the threat of one likely to cause any wide-
spread dismay. Such a state of affairs
doesn’t suit Chapman and the other wild
men who are running the A.R.U., so they
direct the Government to place the neck of
the community under their guillotine.
Lithgow (N.S.W.) small-arms factory has
struck a minor snag. The Federal Arbitra-
tion Court raised wages 4s. or so per week,
and made no provision for meeting the de-
mand. The Federal Government doesn’t feel
inclined to increase the vote for the factory
because it is broke; and, anyhow, its oppo-
nents are great at shouting for disarmament.
So some men are to be put off that the funds
may go round, and the country will do with
fewer small arms.
A very big British manufacturer has an-
nounced that if either Liberal or Labor Free-
traders abolish the protective duty of £33
6s. Bd. per cent, on motor-cars his firm may
have to close, though it. will do its utmost
to remain open. The local Labor member
replied haughtily that ,in such a case the
employees would take over the business
(either steal it outright or give their lOU
for it, as they certainly haven’t the money)
and run it themselves. This childlike faith
in the ability of committees of workmen,
especially if they are the right political color,
to manage a great and complex manufactur-
ing and exporting industry, and make it
pay on terms which the experienced boss
found impossible, is touching.
Behind the scenes negotiations have been
going on to square Australian interests with
the big change created by the beam-cable
merger. Indications are that Pacific (State-
owned) and Eastern Co. interests will be
pooled, and that, in the Commonwealth, wire-
less and cable services will have separate
offices and run their own shows more or
less independently. The existence of two
offices, however, should not be allowed to
blind the public to the fact that in reality
there is no competition. The only way to
prevent the stagnation that arrives when
there is the appearance of competition with-
out the reality is publicity. If wireless and
cables were allowed to rest on their oars the
position would be worse than before the
coming of the beam.
Crawling to the Red
fools has become a
habit with political
Labor “leaders” in N.
S. Wales, but H'ogan,
ex-Premier of Vic-
toria, is not afraid to
tell the workers that
peace in industry is
their first interest. In
a manly plea for the
settlement of the crazy
timber-workers’ strike,
Hogan—himself secre-
tary of a firewood-get-
ters’ union in other
days—said : “All dis-
putes are settled sooner
or later. The sooner
the better for everyone
concerned, and the
later the worse for
all.” The words ought
to be written on the
wall of every trade-
union office in Aus-
tralia.
The gentlemen who
think it doesn’t matter
what the basic or any
Er-Vic. Premier
Hogan.
other wage is so long
as there is a tariff to keep the job in the
country are invited to turn over a few pages
to the “Wild Cat” summary of Standard
Waygood, Ltd. This Sydney engineering co.
thought it could do heavy engineering jobs,
and it was right. But costs went up and up ;
and, after losing on this department almost
all they made in others, the directors de-
cided to give it best. The plant stood in
the books at £258,000, and cost more. On
what it would earn the directors valued it
at £75,000, and wrote off 7s. 9d. of every
£1 of their capital as lost. And as there
is no fun in having money in a losing busi-
ness, the directors handed back another 2s.
Sd. per share in cash, and invited the share-
holders to find some other investment for it.
For nearly a fort-
night the seats of
Queensland Min-
isters Stopford and
Kirwan were in
doubt. Stopford, who
was Home Secretary
in McCormack’s team,
retained Mount Mor-
gan by about 100
majority, and Ivirwan,
who was Minister of
Public Works, had a
majority of about 20
over his principal
opponent, Thatcher.
In his electorate,
Brisbane, a Commu-
nist and an Indepen-
dent polled a few
votes.
The retreat of the
ex-parson Garden from
the other Moscow at
Stopford keeps his
seat.
Long Bay, after one
night’s confinement, for heroically refusing
to pay a fine, recalls W. J. Ferguson, who
was a labor leader of another sort. After
he had been arrested for “conspiracy’
that’s what they called it a few years ago,
and strikes were legal then, too —a lady
called to express her sympathy. "Never
mind, Mr. Ferguson,” she said —“stone walls
do not a prison make nor iron bars a cage.
“No, Madame,” said Ferguson, looking round
his cell—“but a very effective substitute.’
Stan Argyle, Vic. Chief Sec. and Deputy-
Premier, was to have gone with Premier
McPherson to the Premiers’ preliminary talk
in Sydney, and then to Canberra. On
second thoughts, however, it was deemed
advisable to leave him behind to keep
his eye on the industrial situation,
especially as he is Minister of Police. But
that was not the only reason. Cohen, the
Uppish House leader, was, it seems, assert-
ing his claims to the Acting-Premiership in
the absence of these two, and the Assembly
Ministers were not inclined to agree. Since
Charles Sladen held the Premiership for b 6
days in 3868, the Vic. Assembly has never
looked kindly on any Upper House man
leading the Ministry, even temporarily.
The humorless “Commissaries” who run
the affairs of Soviet Russia have estab-
lished Atheism as the State Church and
given it a monopoly of teaching. All other
sects have been disqualified. There was
no silly foolishness of a referendum or a
general election; the thing was just done.
The hostility shown to the great Easter
anti-God demonstration is probably the
reason of the new effort; and as British
Labor leaders have put reconciliation and
warm friendship with Russia on their pro-
gramme, it is evident that the Bolshevik is
a clumsy friend and an inopportune
acquaintance.
For the statistical year ending June 30
next the figures will show that U.S.A. has
taken but 2 p.c. of the wool produced in Aus-
tralia. For some years past America (even
including Canada) has, of all the large
nations, been Australia’s worst customer, as
the U.S.A. tariff against us has been excep-
tionally high, viz., 31 cents (151 d.) per lb.
on a clean-scoured basis. Uncle now pro-
poses to increase the tariff to 39 cents
(or 191 d.), which is prohibitive. And of course
he has" a perfect right to do it—just as Aus-
tralia has a perfect right to reciprocate with
a prohibitive tariff against Uncle.
“Linthouse”: That visit to Yallourn to
inflame it against the “pernicious Lukin
award” was notable for more than the ex-
parson Garden’s wild speech. The resolution
pledging Yallourn to carry out the joint
instructions of Federal and State officers and
the central committee controlling the timber
dispute was “carried unanimously.” Of
1200 unionists in the place, less than 300
were present —many of the rest were on shift.
The meeting was open, there was no show
of union cards, and the resolution was car-
ried “on the voices.” No wonder the men
who run the strike business disapprove of
ballots.
The cadaver in Ramsay MacDonald’s back
yard is that the British Labor programme in-
cludes “public ownership of coal, transport,
power” (which is the thing which drives
factories), “land and life insurance,” and too
much talk about this in the wwong places
may spoil his chances. After the election, of
course, it won’t matter. Ramsay can drop
all such projects as he has always dropped
them hitherto.
PERPLEXED VOTERS AND BLIND.
GUIDES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The jest of the British elections, according to
J. L. Garvin, is that millions of women are asking
men how to vote, and millions of men are unable
to tell them.”
Twenty years back and what battles they
waged for it,
Ruthless in actions as fearsome in threats,
Screamed and crusaded and smashed and
rampaged for it,
Aye, and were gaoled for it, those suffra-
gettes !
Starved, very often, before they were through
with it.
Seeking their object by martyrdom’s woes.
Now they have gotten it, what will they do
with it?
Nobody knows, brother, nobody knows.
Hundreds of years it was kept beyond reach
of them,
Right to a voice and a say at the poll.
Now it’s allotted to all and to each of them,
Once they are out of parental control.
Now it is theirs, the full franchise at last,
the thing
Grudged through the ages by tyrannous
man,
Think of them asking us how they should
cast the thing!
Picture it, Pankhursts that were, if you
can.
Lo! She awakens from centuries slum-
berous,
Wakes with the ballot her due and her
right.
Will she descend on the polls to outnumber
us
As it’s alarmingly patent she might?
Will she rely on herself and be keen upon
None but her sex for the Hansards to
quote ?
Not while she has a male shoulder to lean
upon.
Brother, she’s asking you how she should
vote.
Deem not she’ll fill up her paper capriciously
Or that by candidates’ looks she’ll be
swayed.
Yours is the voice must advise her judi-
ciously,
Sister or sweetheart and matron or maid.
Lend a receptive and reasoning ear to her,
Point out the path that you think she
should go,
Making the why of it perfectly clear to her,
Also the wherefore —that is, if you know.
N.S.W.
IFPRD.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMELE'S INKS"
“Si Anu”: Bima, the island from which
Moir and Owen kicked off on their ill-fated hop
to Darwin, is noted throughout the Malayan
Archipelago for its ponies, a spirited and sturdy
breed that can pull loads out of all propor-
tion to their size. Timor is a large but
curiously untropical-looking island, to the
northern portion of which Portugal still
clings, by means of a handful of lethargic
half-caste officials, as the last relic of the once-
mighty empire in these seas which Albuquer-
que founded when he stampeded with gun-
powder the fighting elephants of the Sultan
of Malacca. Holland, ambitipus to oust her
age-long rival, holds the other end, and in
between are mountains occupied by tribes
which are as independent as if 300 years of
white conquest were a'fiction. At the north-
east point of Timor are the islands of Kissa
and Dammer, which were especially created
to provide shipmasters with material for a
pun. Kissa, however, has another distinc-
tion ; in 1665 eight Dutch soldiers were
landed there by the Dutch East India Co.,
and the settlement forgotten for nearly
250 years. When the lonely atoll was redis-
WITHOUT ANY QUALIFICATIONS.
WIFE (after the quarrel) : “I — I—I know you wish you were free to marry again.”
FED-UP HUSBAND: “No—just free.”
covered, the descendants of the Hollanders
were found to have retained their Nordic
heritage almost intact. They still dominated
the natives, clung to Christianity and pre-
served their love of education and their
capacity for business. To-day Kissarese,
with their European vitality unsapped, hold
down good jobs in various parts of the Dutch
islands.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: If Moir and Owen lobbed
anywhere in Timor away from the few
approved landing-grounds or settlements,
their plight might be no better than that of
Kingsford Smith in Westralia. The island
averages 50 miles in breadth and 250 in
length, and is extremely mountainous, the
centre rising to 11.000 feet and the coast in
places being terribly precipitous. It comes
within the influence of the drying winds from
Australia, and much of it is hopelessly bar-
ren. Delli, the Portuguese “capital,” is a
pallid little galvanised-iron township cling-
ing apologetically to the foot of lofty moun-
tains. When I last visited it we took off a
retiring Governor, his lady and four children.
They were all as thin as rakes and riddled
with malaria, and as they sat listlessly about
the decks, tended by Malay servants who
were the embodiment of energy by compari-
son, they made a perfect epitome of the
tragedy of Portuguese colonial history. The
Dutch captain reflected the official attitude
of Batavia by being covertly hostile to the
party; but when, at the first-saloon table,
the lady began to feed her baby in the old
way with the utmost publicity, the outrage
on propriety fanned the skipper’s rancor into
active resentment. Some of the old fire of
his proud race returned to the Governor,
and there was a fierce argument, during
which the mother continued placidly to
nourish her offspring. Then the party trailed
out of the saloon and never emerged from
their cabin until we reached Sourabaya. In
a way, the above helps to explain why Hol-
land, and not Portugal, is assisting in the
present search.
:1s * $ ❖
“Caractacus”: With the Queensland Gov-
ernment’s* acceptance of Bert Hinkler’s
’plane for the Brisbane Museum finis will be
written to a sub-chapter of the solo flight
from England to Bundaberg. Hinkler landed
on the nearest approach to a ’drome that
was available, a small recreation reserve at
North Bundaberg. The reserve was imme-
diately christened Hinkler Park in his honor,
and the park committee erected an emergency
Hangar to house the Avian. When the air-
man decided to return to England, almost
at a minute’s notice, he left the ’plane, partly
dismantled, in the park hangar. The trophy
soon became an embarrassment; it was un-
sightly, and it encumbered playing space.
The committee could not serve notice on
Hinkler to remove the obstruction, but they
served it on his mother, who had the machine
transferred to her own yard, after which the
park trustees took down the hangar.
* * * *
“Eureka” : When a policeman at Narrabri
(N.S.W.) saw a man diving into a deep
watcrhole near the town he put down the
eccentricity to drink, but investigation dis-
closed that it was merely the aftermath of a
jamboree. A swagman found a pound-note
and put it on a horse, which won at 100 to
1. When the money was paid over he
committed Matilda to a watery grave, and
made a bee-line for the nearest pub. His
windfall lasted for a fortnight; then came a
Sunday morning when he dredged his pockets
in vain for a single sixpence. So he went
to the waterhole to try to recover his
portable property. A sympathetic constable
helped him retrieve the swag and spread it
out to dry; the same evening a dejected-
looking pedestrian disappeared in the direc-
tion of Moree.
* * * *
“Shep”: About the only redeeming feature
of a troopship in the tropics was the canvas
swimming tank, usually erected on the well-
deck. As nurses gazed down on our pool
from their promenade deck, troops Avere
compelled to have their dip and wash their
dungarees at the same time. Some of the
sisters appealed to the matron for permission
to use the bath before it grew too full of
dungaree dye. Approval was granted for a
morning plunge, with a proviso that the tank
be screened off with canvas, and that efficient
male life-savers be in attendance in case of
accident’, although the greatest* depth of
water, allowing for the ship’s roll, was only
about four feet. It may have been the
suspicion that there was a shortage of
women’s bathing togs on board which caused
a rush for the life-savers’ jobs, but, anyhow,
applications came from everyone who’d ever
smelt the surf. The pair who were chosen
were both holders of medals or certificates
for saving life on Australian beaches, and
they were the envy of the mess-deck on the
morning of their first report for duty. After
an hour they returned willing to sell out
cheap. The special position arranged for
them was behind three thicknesses of canvas,
where they had only splashing and giggling
to listen to, with never a whisper of an SOS,
and the only feminine form visible was
that of the matron keeping one eye on the
life-savers and the other on her charges in
the water.
* * * *
“P.M.”: It was a cheap diversion and a
silly one to sling off at men behind the lines
when every one of them had a necessary job
to do, baking bread, repairing telephones or
a score of other essential things. Just before
the Hamel stunt in 1918 I was standing at a
busy cross-road behind the lines when a con-
voy of motor-lorries full of troops was held
up by the traffic control. Gaping out of the side
of one was a, youthful Digger, an unmistakable
“rookie.” A steam-roller lumbered slowly past,
“Hey, turn round!” he jeered. “Come with
us; you’re going the wrong way!” “No,
I’m coming back, boy,” replied the driver. “I
left there three years ago, before your
mummy cut your curls.” And he poked one
leg out of the cab and pulled up his overalls
to make clear that it was a wooden one.
NO EXPENSE SPARED.
THE PHILOSOPHER: “Well, was it a very fashionable wedding?”
THE FLAPPER: “ Fashionable! Why, even the champagne bottles wore garlands of
frangipanni.”
“Wakatu”: The latest earthquake shock
in Maoriland dislodged a marble mantelpiece
from the brickwork of the fireplace in a
dwelling at Waituna. The smash disclosed a
niche in the brickwork containing a will
written on parchment and dated 1846. The
present owners of the property are in no way
connected with the will, and the document
is so yellow with age that it has not been
possible as yet to decipher the names in it.
The mantelpiece came from England, and
was fitted into the house about 30 years ago.
-!’• '!>
“AdeL”: Back in ’9B I figured as a volun-
teer in one of the revolutionary armies in
Ilayti. The rank and file, of whom I was
one, were attired in all kinds of brightly-
colored uniforms, requisitioned from pawn-
shops were sailors and other birds
of passage had left their belongings,
but our officers wore uniforms im-
ported from European countries, and
our commanding General looked dis-
tinguished in an old, faded Nap-
oleonic gala dress, a relic of over a
century ago. Our army comprised
four divisions, cavalry, infantry,
artillery and transport, the last con-
sisting mostly of officers’ wives.
Mounted on his Welsh pony, baton
in hand, our General led us to action,
and soon we were hotly engaged in
dislodging the enemy from some
thickly-timbered slopes. Our lone
cannon refused to function, or else
someone had forgotten to bring the
shells; but the cavalry charged,
mostly on foot, as only the officers
were mounted, and the infantry, with
old Mausers, hammerless Martinis
and stockless muzzle-loaders, fol-
lowed up the slopes, to find that the
enemy had been routed. At dusk we
entered the city, which was brightly
illuminated with oil-lamps and
braziers in honor of our great victory without
loss of life or limb. Soon our General wms
lifted from his pony and carried shoulder-
high to a banquet, while the rank and file
were much feted by the womenfolk. Thus
ended the most memorable battle in which I
ever participated.
* * Hi *
“Mullarula”: Too often war decorations
went unawarded because the man of action
was such a poor hand at description and
narration. One Digger I knew, who was
never at a loss for words to tell of hilarious
happenings while he was on leave or of
country race meetings in his pre-war days,
had rushed an enemy listening-post in the
dark, killing or wounding five and taking
three prisoners. There was no question
about the facts, and the Colonel made it his
business to interview the Digger personally
with a view to recommending him for a deco-
ration. “Aw, I dunno,” drawled Jim when
pressed for details. “I just sort of sneaked
up and let ’em have me bombs, an’ then made
some kind of a rush. I must have been
a bit ratty for a minute or two, I reckon.”
He was willing to let it go at that, but the
Colonel persisted. “What did you do then?”
he asked. “Not too sure,” said Jim, scratch-
ing his head. “Just stoushed ’em up in a
kind of general way, I suppose.” He got
a D.C.M.
* * * *
“X.P.0.”: “J.H.M.A..” in his article on
“The Flagship” (B. 15/5/’29), refers to the
Navy chaplain in his black coat as being
“unlike his army prototype—colonels, majors
and captains.” There is more difference than
that of garments. My experience was that
the army padre was in closer touch with his
flock than the navy chaplain—l have known
one of the latter to stress the fact that he
was an officer. I have heard the same miu-
ister thunder “Silence!” when his sermon
(usually about our manifold sins and wicked-
nesses) was not getting the full attention of
the lower-deck. In seven years I was only
approached twice individually by the chap-
lain, and saw him on the stokers’ mess-deck
no more than half a dozen times in the same
period. In marked contrast was the army
padre, who generally knew most of his flock
by name, visited us at meal-times, and was
always good for fags, and very often for
francs as well. To put it briefly, the A.I.F.
padre was a civilian in uniform, whereas the
R.A.N. chaplain is an officer in mufti.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: The Absconding Debtors Act of
W.A. became law about the middle of last cen-
tury, when Groperland was far more isolated
than Tasmania has ever been; it provided
that anyone who sought to leave the colony
by boat—practically the only way—could be
prevented from doing so if he owed as much
as £5 to anybody. The sum seems small nowa-
days, but it wasn’t when the Act was passed
and facilities for getting away were few,
and even when Fremantle and Albany be-
came quite busy seaports the law held,
although it was less and less often invoked.
In fact, it survived until an ex-Premier and
Agent-General-elect, stepping importantly on
to the gangway of an outward-bound boat,
felt a tap on his shoulder and found an officer
of the law pressing a whole sheaf of un-
settled bills into his hand. The departing
one paid up—there being no other means
of getting away—but the Government felt
that he had been subjected to a humiliating
experience, and the law was promptly altered.
* * # Hs
“The Bat”: The latest variety of practi-
tioner to be rushed through the air on an
urgent mission is a safe expert. The door of
the receptacle where the Commonwealth
Bank at Cairns keeps its assets suddenly
became refractory and defied all the efforts
of officials and local craftsmen to open it.
A telegram was sent to Brisbane for an
expert to be dispatched by ’plane, and inside
of 24 hours—lo hours’ actual flying time —
the specialist in locks was on the scene. A
few hours later the door was opened.
* * * *
“Pila”: No one can positively assert that
any particular grave of those recently dis-
turbed in the old Melbourne gaolyard was that
of Ned Kelly, the bushranger. There were
three “E.K.’s” on the wall, the said letters
indicating Emily Knorr and Ernest Knox as
well as the bushranger, and nobody was in a
position to depose which was which among
the skeletons. Some of the Kelly remains have
not been returned, and ghouls who believe
themselves to be in possession of small frag-
ments of the outlaw may merely be trea-
suring osseous bits of the baby-farmer.
* * * *
“Lex”: Maoriland’s new C. J., Michael
Myers, ran into an unusual situation at his
very first sitting on the Supreme Court
Bench. It was a case in which four men
were charged with burglary, and counsel for
the defence and the Crown issued so many
challenges that the whole jury panel was
exhausted before the box was filled. “All
that we can do,” said the C.J., “is to pray
a tales. Does any counsel make applica-
tion?” So a counsel prayed a tales, the
doors were locked, and a levy was made upon
“Tales de circum,stantibus” —“such as are
standing about.” The Judge held that the
right to challenge had not been exhausted
by counsel, and permitted further challenges,
so that the Registrar had to make two sorties
into the body of the court before the 12 good
men and true could be invited to kiss the
Book. There may be a Maoriland rule that
permits the challenging of talesmen, but it
is doubtful if the principle has a place in
British common law.
BROCCOLI.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Baldwin, the Prime Minister of Great Britain,
while making an election tour through Cornwall,
received armsful of broccoli wherever he stopped.”
Her last farewell, her very last,
The Diva sang; and thick and fast
Upon the stage, in snowy showers,
Fell tributary cauliflowers.
Then, as she took her seventh call,
The broccoli began to fall.
Her grateful teardrops gushed amain:
“You dears! I’m coming back again !”
When Guggenheim holed out in one
(His picture’s in the Daily Bun)
A cable, signed by George, R. 1.,
Quite jarred his native modesty,
And when, to further crown the feat,
A string of lorries lined the street
Loaded with broccoli, he knew
That Fame had won its final due.
The Mayor did the Hero proud
Before a wildly cheering crowd.
“The bravest action of the year !
Australia’s proud’of you!” (Hear, hear.)
“I only done what any bloke
Would do. Stiff luck, me knife was broke,
Or I’d have killed the shark,” said he....
And gleaned whole rounds of broccoli.
But Gabriel Buggins, M.L.A.,
Member for Dingo Flat, they say,
Received from his constituents
Some vegetable compliments'
Less to his taste. For not the best
Of turnips splurged upon his chest;
And, as a spud whizzed by his head,
“Say it with broccoli,” he pled.
VICTORIA.
WAWHERESH.


“Sixenate”: It would be dangerous to
take an exemplary prison record as indicat-
ing a determination to lead a better life. In
1909 a man who had already undergone sev-
eral short terms of imprisonment received a
life sentence at Sydney for wounding with
intent. When he was discharged on Feb-
ruary, 1928, his good-conduct bonuses
amounted to £l74 —the largest amount ever
paid under this head to a prisoner in N. S.
Wales, and enough to start a man in busi-
ness, or at all events keep him from any
desperate pursuit of money. But when the
police laid him by the heels again a whole
series of larcenies was proved against the
model prisoner, and he is now serving a
Kathleen Mavourneen sentence.
❖ '\i i’fi *
“Spokeshave”: As a result of the increase
in the number of people owning private screen-
ing outfits, the lineal descendant of the
Port Said postcard and the smuggled copy
of “La Vie Parisienne” has arrived in the
shape of the indecent film. Some of these
consist of cuts from scores of censored
films gummed together to make an idiotic
jumble of bare backs and incomprehensible
incidents. Others have been specially manu-
factured for the market abroad, and have got
into this country by devious ways and means.
At bachelor parties they save the mental
effort required to remember the latest one
about the manager and the typist, so they
fill a public need of a sort.
DAD RECOGNISED HIS OLD FRIENDS.
MARRIED DAUGHTER : “Wait a bit till this rain goes off, Dad — it’ll spoil my new fur coat.”
DAD (on visit): “Rubbish, child. D’you ever see rabbits carrying an umbrella?”
“Bullwhanger”: A rather remarkable
marine procession started from Sydney when
the French steamer St. Joseph cleared for
Noumea with the seagoing hulk La Perouse
and the new motor-vessel Lolita in tow. The
St Joseph was well known along the N.S.W.
coast a few years back as the Five Islands.
She was coal-droughing until lean times
compelled her owners to sell her to the
Frenchmen at Noumea, whence she runs
reeularlv to Svdney and Port Ivembla for
cargoes of coke The La Perouse has come
down even further in status. She began as
a smart three-masted ship, the Star of
Russia, in the Alaska salmon trade, and is
spending the evening of her days at Noumea
with several other old-timers of the sea;
only very occasionally does one of them make
a trip south. The little Lolita, the baby of
the lot, is a wooden motor-vessel of about
60 tons, brand-new from a Berry’s Bay ship-
yard, and on her first voyage. Built to the
order of a French firm in the New Hebrides,
she is doing the first stage of the journey in
company with vessels old enough to be her
mother and grandmother.
* * * *
“Skyrider” : A new use has been found for
the Sydney city-railway excavations. The
latest addition to the beauties of the Botanic
Gardens is a row of iron cowls, which pre-
sumably supply fresh air to the workers in
the tunnel below. I lunched in the vicinity
the other morning; close by were a party
finishing their meal. “Take away the rubbish,
Dad,” said one of the ladies. Dad obediently
gathered banana-skins, a rejected rotten pear
and other debris, pushed them into a paper
bag and “posted” it in the nearest cowl.
“Good idea that,” he remarked thoughtfully;
“beats those old open baskets' they used to
have.”
* * * *
“Wrash”: The word “furpliy,” applied
to a highly-colored yarn, is far older than
the war or Victorian military camps. It was
frequently heard among shearers as long ago
as the ’eighties. There was a shed identity
who enjoyed a high reputation as a Munchau-
sen, and wherever an cxtra-unswallowable
tale was propounded in the hut or at crib
time the wool-hawks labelled it, after this
romancer, a “Fergus Murphy.” Abbreviation
did the rest.
“Basra” : The use of the word “furpliy” to
signify a rumor arose from the reputation
enjoyed by the men who drove Furpliy’s gar-
bage carts of being know-alls. They could
tell you the latest war news long before it
appeared in print, when the next draft was
leaving and the name of the vessel it was
to travel .in. If anyone asked for informa-
tion about anything he was advised to “Ask
Furpliy.” The expression soon became in-
corporated into the Digger language, and it
was current until the close of the war.
* * * *
“Avon”: The latest collection of allegedly
ownerless millions to intrigue the interest of
Maorilanders stands in the name of Peter
Taylor, dec’d. He was an Englishman who
migrated to America, made a huge fortune,
and finally settled in Amsterdam, where he
died. His will bequeathed his estate to a
“distant nephew,” with a proviso that if
his heir died without issue the money should
be “locked up for 100 years.” Whether the
nephew did die childless doesn’t seem to be
clear. The Maoriland claimants rely, appa-
rently, upon family legends and upon “valu-
able papers,” which, being written in Dutch,
they have not been able to interpret. It’s
all very foggy, and the mist isn’t much
cleared by the added /detail that somebody in
Holland wrote to one of the M.L. claimants
16 years ago, stating that an “Aberdeen
lawyer” wished to take up the case for him.
$ % * *
“Scncx” : South Australia discarded most
of its German place names in a burst of
patriotic zeal during the war, and there is
much to be said for the suggestion that some
of the historic ones, such as Klemzig and
Hahndorf, should he restored at the centen-
ary—in 1936. The German immigrants
came out, not as many suppose, to avoid
military service, but because of the fierce
religious persecution of the Lutherans by
Frederick 111. of Prussia between 1830 and
1840. The exiles all became naturalised; in-
deed, several had fought at Waterloo, and
others under the British flag in the Penin-
sular War. Klemzig they named after their
place of persecution, Hahndorf after a warm
benefactor, Bethany and Lobethal (“the val-
ley of praise”) in tribute to their faith,
There is no real reason why these names,
with their treasured associations should be
wiped from the map when that of the
capital, named after Adelaide of Saxe-Mem-
ingen, wife of William IV., has not been
interfered with.
sfc Hi ❖ *
“Ilayband”: Sydney’s early dwellers left
a lot of discarded wells lying around. Re-
cently, at the rear of an Oxford-street
emporium, a heavily-laden motor-lorry com-
menced to sink by the stern. The engine
was still running when the startled driver
THE PESSIMIST.
“What’s going to win the big race, Reggie?”
“From what I hear, I’d be surprised if anything wins.”
leaped up and jumped the machine ahead.
As it floundered to safety a heavy case
toppled back and crashed down through the
splintered covering into a 14ft. bricked well
which had been covered with slabs, probably
nearly a century before, and disappeared
under the thoroughfare. It says something
for the stoutness and durability of Austra-
lian hardwood that all these years should
pass before a weighty lorry found the weak
spot.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: The British law closely fol-
lows the Mosaic in making it a punishable
offence for a man to masquerade as a woman
but not for a woman to disguise herself as
a man (B. 15/5/’29). The idea amongst
the Israelites was not only to protect the
women from interlopers who might get
amongst them in disguise, but to deter young
men who tried to shirk war service by skulk-
ing amongst the females —being stoned to
death was the penalty in such a case. The
prohibition of the shaven chin, still strictly
observed by ultra-orthodox Jews, was prob-
ably a precaution with the same purpose.
* * * *
“Chizzy”: What is a Maori? A magis-
trate in the Shivery Islands had to answer
the question the other day. The late Justice
Edwards had laid it down that a half-caste
was not a Maori, but the Beak was asked to
decide what a man seven-eighths Maori
and one-eighth white was. In this case the
man’s grandmother was white and all the other
ancestors were indigenes. The finding was
that since there was a preponderance of
Maori blood in the subject of inquiry and his
environment was that of the Maori race, he
belonged thereto.
jj.
“T.” • There is a tendency to confuse the
N.S.W.’ Badge with the N.S.W. Coat of
Arms. The badge has been in existence for
many years, and consists of a shield with
four quarters, containing representations of
a golden fleece, etc., which indicate the pros-
perity of the State. The motto is “Sic fortia
Etruria ere fit.” The coat of arms was not
obtained until after the death of Queen Vic-
toria, when it was discovered that there were
no arms for reproduction in the new public
seal which had to be made by the Imperial
Government for N. S. Wales. The motto
is “Orta recens quam pura nites. , ’ At Wesley
College (University) there is a window
which has a representation of the badge, but
with the coat-of-arms motto.
* * * *
“Oran”: It isn’t only the cocaine addict
who will stick at nothing to obtain his drug.
Many Sydney chemists retain vivid recollec-
tions of a chlorodyne drinker who would
enter the shop and ask for a bottle of his
favorite dope, large size. After Sotting it
he would remember a prescription he wanted
made up, and sit down to wait while the
chemist went behind scenes to mix. Before
the pill expert was quite ready with the pre-
scription the shopper would hand over the
bottle of chlorodyne, announce that: he had
urgent business down the street, and ask the
unsuspecting proprietor to hold the goods
until his return. After waiting a week or two
the chemist would cast out the prescription
bottle and unwrap the chlorodyne to return
it to’stock Then he would discover that
he had on his hands a bottle of water. The
dodge was worked on scores of chemists.
* * * *
“Exdia” • Premonitions of death or deadly
danger in war-time (B. 15/5/’29) often
proved as deceptive as dreams of racecourse
I remember tbe C3.se of 3n 3rtil~
lery officer, usually the gamest of men, who
suddenly “cracked up.” He said that he
had a feeling that if he went on duty that
day .lie would be killed, and a sympathetic
hattery-commander allowed him to take a
spell. It was in his dug-out that a shell
found him. There was another man who,
after half a dozen narrow escapes from
death, became convinced he had exhausted
his spare chances. Ilis desperate efforts to
get out of the line resulted in his trans-
ference to Corps H.Q. —up to 1918 about as
safe a location as Blighty. He marched out
of Voormezeele congratulating himself on Ins
luck; that very day Fritz started his con-
sistent back-of-the-line shelling, and the poor
devil who reckoned himself safe was killed,
with four othefs, in the cellar of a house into
which an armor-piercing shell dug its way.
I remember yet another Digger who, when I
last spoke to him, was overjoyed at having
received a wound which was sending him out
of the line, thus, as he thought, cheating the
death-premonition that had been oppressing
him. He was one of the victims when the
far-back hospital train in which he was
travelling was bombed.
* * * *
“Lao-dah” : Some surprise was expressed
in a Melbourne court the other day because
a bland Celestial, apparently in normal
health, smilingly confessed to having smoked
opium for 30 years. His case was no more
remarkable than would be that of a white
Australian who admitted to taking a couple
of pots daily for the same period. The popu-
lar idea of an opium-smoker is of one who
takes more and more of the drug until he
becomes a bag of bones, starts to smell out-
rageously, and finally dies of it. That is
often enough the case when white men par-
take surreptitiously, because the furtive
addict is usually a degenerate or a person
who is trying to smother some internal pain.
But where the daily pipe openly takes the
place of the daily glass, the number of help-
less addicts is very small. I once employed
a rickshaw coolie in Penang who had
been running for 20 years and never missed
his morning inhalation.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: They run in all shapes,
these heartless parents who jest with their
defenceless offspring’s names. A man
I know tells me that his full Chris-
tain names are Norman Stanley Ferguson,
and that his three brothers are respectively
christened Ivor Oliver Unwin, Percy Nicho-
las and Ilex Thomas Daniel. The jest is
not obvious till you look at the initials,
N.S.F., 1.0. U., P.N. and R.T.D. (“Refer to
drawer”). I hazarded that Dad must have
suffered from financial troubles, but N.S.F.
remarked that, on the contrary, they were
unfinancial ones.
=:= * * *
“Nitric”: Excavations made recently in
the courtyard at the old Armidale (N.S.W.)
gaol, where a new Teachers’ Training Col-
lege is to be built, brought to light the
skeleton of an aboriginal in a perfect state
of preservation. The body had been placed
in a sitting position, and the forehead was
pierced cleanly by a bullet-hole. Old-timers
recollect the escape of an aboriginal convict
50-odd years ago who was never officially
recaptured. It is suggested that this is
the escapee, and that he was “pinged”
and put underground in a hurry.
* * * *
“Sixehate” : The abhorrence of slang felt
by some of our Judges is not shared by
Justice Coyle, who told counsel at the
Parramatta Election Commission that he did
hot care “a twopenny dump” about the
Labor party or the National party, his job
being merely to investigate the condition of
the rolls. I wonder if his Honor knows what
a “twopenny dump”—quite different from a
“twopenny dam”—-is or was. In my youth-
ful days the term was applied to two things:
a kind of pie sold in the smallgoods shops
and a massive sweetmeat. Either may be
the dump responsible for a phrase which
has long gone out of date —each would be
a sixpenny dump now, were it still obtain-
able.
TICKET SNATCHING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Prince’s Bridge for Heidelberg,
Number one for Kew.
Mind that go-cart, if you please,
Isn’t room for two.
That’s your husband’s ticket, ma’am,
Can’t be used by you."
A human parrot iu a cage—at fourteen bob
a day—
I chatter in the same old strain and nip the
hours away,
While past me in an endless stream the
motley human folk
Go on with shoulders bent beneath the old
eternal yoke.
And life seems only catching trains and
leaving them again,
And shuffling feet and outstretched hands
and eyes that peer and strain.
There’s some are going up the line and some
are going down,
And for each one that wears a smile there’s
two that wear a frown.
Mayhap there’s humor now and then, but it
is hard to see
When you are caged for eight long hours
that seem eternity.
And all I wonder now is this: When my last
train is through,
Will I be checking at the gates the saved and
sinless few?
“Fast express to Paradise,
Saints, get over there.
Hurry on, please! Hurry on!
Laggards double fare.
Cherubs through the other gate,
Seraphs anywhere!"
VICTORIA.
PATRICK T. FINDLAY.


yfosierp of
incomparable
cjuahip,entirely
ibe product of
(AustraL
(^draftsmen.
tan
V. .
m: - u
F'{ i
m
U>/| : '
m
' ... ' v- ;:. ! i •: •' ■ .
5 ' .
f
19 D


Quality is the Keynote of “Fx & R” A 1 Spoons
H
m
and Forks
“Fx & K” Spoons and Forks are not made
solely to sell at a low price, but are designed
to look and wear like silver for a lifetime,
and as such are offered at a bedrock price.
The handsome oak case, illustrated, contains
“Fx & R” A 1 Old English Spoons and Forks
—Harrison Bros. & Hanson’s Rustless and
Stainless Steel Cutlery.
6 Table Forks 6 Dessert Forks
6 Table Spoons 6 Dessert Spoons
6 Soup Spoons. 0 Tea Spoons.
1 Sugar Tongs
i Doz. Table Knives, 1 Doz. Dessert Knives.
1 Pair Carvers and Steel.
Price, £l6 Complete.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney.
23-25 HUNTER STREET.
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
Follow the
Chart
TEXACO keeps your engine clean.
BUY FROM THE TEXACO VISIBLE OIL
SERVER BOTTLE, AND ENSURE:
Freedom from carbon
Clean Valves and Spark Plugs
Protection against heat and wear
Economy in consumption
High compression and more
power
TEXACO
CLEAN "'CLEAR* GOLDEN
MOTOR OIL
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Not many years separate the three party
leaders, Welsh, English and Scottish respec-
tively, who are appealing for votes in the
U.K. George was born in ’63, Macdonald
in ’66, Baldwin in ’67. That was a fruit-
ful period. Billy Hughes dates from ’64 and
Hertzog (S. Africa) from ’66.
The airmen Moir and Owen, of the
Vickers-Vellore, after being missing eight
days, were found by L. J. Brain, pilot of
the , Qantas ’plane Atalanta; cruising above
the Coburg Peninsula, he spotted the machine
and its crew near Cape Don lighthouse. The
craft had been slightly damaged in landing,
but the men were unhurt. Their transmitter
had failed, and there is no wireless at the
lighthouse, the Commonwealth Government
having speedways to make at Canberra. And
now there ought to be a close season for
newspaper flying stunts. Men like Brain and
Brearley are doing more for commercial avia-
tion than the whole army of long-distance
fliers.
John Batman Weire, a great grandson of
John Batman, one of the founders of Mel-
bourne, has just died on the Hawkesbury,
(N.S.W.). He was 52.
Although Monasli remains patron-president
of the Australian Zionist Federation, and
Rabbi Brodie, of Melbourne, president, the
removal of the federation’s central offices
to Sydney makes Morris Symonds senior
vice-president, the virtual working chair-
man of the organisation. Symonds started
off scratch on his arrival in Sydney and made
a pile out of furniture. He was a strong sup-
porter of Zionism before it began to be popu-
lar ; his gifts included £5OOO to the Hebrew
University in Jerusalem, in which a hall
is named in his honor. One of his sons,
a barrister, is president of the N.S.W. Board
of Hebrew Education.
In Sydney for the Premiers’ Conference,
Swilliam McPherson had a look at the Har-
bor bridge as one who has a share in its
making. McPherson’s Pty., Ltd., of which
he is governing director, is supplying the
5,000,000 rivets necessary to bind the huge
structure together. There is £60,000 in that
little lot. ,
The new president of the Methodist Con-
ference for all Australia is Rev. F. Lade,
born in Melbourne 61 years ago. Starting
as a farmer, he switched to the ministry
and took his M.A. at Melbourne with first-
class honors in philosophy. His first church
was at St. Helens (Tas.), and he had some
years at country towns of Vic., but since
1911 he has been in South Aus. He is
strong on anti-gambling and prohibition.
By the death of J. H. Hobbins, Melbourne
lost one of its first babies. He arrived on
October 24, 1840, and spent most of his time
between hotel-keeping and gold rushes. His
gold-seeking experiences in Victoria taught
him a lesson, and when he joined the stam-
pede to Coolgardie it was to work a con-
densing plant.
Federal Chief Justice ADRIAN KNOX,
who has been given leave of absence
to recover his health.
Judge Beeby, who was knocked down by a
motor-cyclist last year, is still a semi-cripple,
and that was why the movie made a first
appearance in the Arbitration Court in Mel-
bourne the other day. The case was one in
which a firm sought to prove that a drilling-
machine for making lawn-mowers could be
tended by unskilled labor. As the Judge
couldn’t visit the factory in Fitzroy, Iler-
schell’s made a film showing the job. The
picture was thrown on the white wall of the
court.
A couple of hundred Melbourne State
head-teachers met to shower praise, thanks
and banknotes upon their secretary, William
Stewart, whose health collapsed after he had
successfully organised many big things, such
as the children’s good-bye to Lord Strad-
broke and the monster display in honor of
the Duke and Duchess, besides running the
Garden Yale school. A few evenings later
teachers of all grades from all parts of Vic-
toria honored Henry C. Hart, retired after
eight years as chief organiser, following on
20 years’ leadership in the field. More than
£2OO was handed over at the function, which
bubbled with affectionate gratitude.
A missing hydrant, which was eventually
discovered underneath a parked motor-car,
helped to swell the loss when C. J. White and
Sons’ hardware showroom in Melbourne
caught fire the other evening. The head of the
firm is- Colonel White, the Digger airman who
was captured
by the Turks
when he landed
b e hin d the
enemy’s lines to
cut the tele-
graph wire to
Bagdad. White at
length escaped to
tell the story of his
exp e r i ences in
“Guests of the Un-
speakable,” which
was the war book
of 1928. He mar-
ried a daughter of
well-loved Alfred
Deakin.
PROFESSOR
WALLACE,
newly-appointed
Vice-Chancellor
of Sydney Uni.,
who, as the
school’s chief
executive officer,
is more or less
responsible for the
students’ good
behavior.
In compliance with his wish, the body of
James Wilson, the wealthy knight who was
for 20 years president of the M.L. Farmers’
Union,' was borne to the cemetery on a
fern-strewn farm-waggon.
“Ike” Freedman, of Brisbane, who pre-
sided at the Zionist Conference in Sydney,
maintains a good balance between sport and
religion. He has been president of the Bris-
bane congregation for two years, and on the
sporting side is a racehorse owner and
breeder; he won several big Queensland races
with Gold Tye, and with one of its progeny,
Golden Garter, he won the V.R.C. Futurity
Stakes.
About an interesting family:—
It is suggested in The Bulletin that the “New
Australia” roll would be short if called now. This
is open to doubt. Take the case of the Bilks family
from S. Australia. Twelve made the journey, and to-
day nine are alive after four deaths; one, Dick, was
born in the colony, offspring of Florence Weiden-
hofer (nee Birks), aged one year and nine-twelfths
when most of the family reached London —broke.
Mrs. G. N. Birks, head of the house, is still much
alive in Adelaide, aged 86. Her husband was buried
near a wild-orange grove in Paraguay and she re-,
visited the grave alone at a ripe age after a bullock-
waggon journey. The last stage even now is about
five days behind a 10ft. bamboo pointed with a
6in. nail applied to the bullock’s rump. Her son
Kyffin recently visited these shores after a 30 years’
absence as chief of staff of an Argentine railway
group. Her eldest son, G. Fred Birks, Governor of
Australian Rotary, would run Mary Gilmore a pretty
close second in being widely known within the
Commonwealth and beyond. Two of the Birkses
served in the Great War-—Eric N. (now represent-
ing S. Australian Register) and the above-mentioned
Dick, both severely wounded.
Australia’s foremost seismologist and great
classical scholar, Dr. Edward F. Pigott, of
the Jesuit staff of Riverview College (Syd-
ney), died last week, aged 71. Son of David
R. Pigott, Master of the Exchequer Division
of the Four Courts in Dublin and grand-
son of Chief Baron Pigott, he graduated
B.A. at Tl’inity, was an M.D. in 1882, prac-
tised three years with the scalpel, and then
followed in the footsteps of Ignatius Loyola
after completing a post-graduate course at
Whitechapel Hospital, London. It was while
on the Jesuit mission in China that lie took
up astronomy, and was for six years on the
staff of the observatory at Shanghai. He
came to Riverview in 1908.
The late E. R. Ed kins, father of Boyd,
the well-known motorist, owned the Lome
Hill cattle station in the Far North, often
mentioned lately in connection with the air-
craft mishaps. He and explorer Hann took
up country around Wyndliam, Hann managing
it; but extreme distances and "lack of trans-
port killed the venture. Hann then under-
took an exploring commission for the Wfest-
ralian Government. He remembered his late
partner by naming the Edkins range, and
left his own footprint on Mount Hann. Coin-
cidence steps in here, for Edkins’s sales-
manager, George Lloyd, has a nephew, O.
Siddons, in Hann’s old district who recently
went searching for the Southern Cross as
observer to Pilot Woods.
To some visitors the most interesting figure
at the New State Conference held at Armi-
dale (N.S.W.) was Dr. Barton, of Scone. A
son of the late Edmund (“Toby”), leader of
the Federal Convention and principal drafts-
man of the Commonwealth Constitution, he
hasn’t the father's brilliance of speech,
though several of Toby’s mannerisms are
conspicuous.
To have push-biked 130,000 miles chas-
ing truant children is the record of J. A.
Blank, schools attendance-officer in
Canterbury (M.L.), who has just
retired. Blank took 33 years to com-
plete this alarming total in a district
which stretches from the Kaikoura Ranges
to the Waitaki River, a mere matter of 200
miles.
Celebrated his 84th birthday recently ex-
Justice Chubb, one of Queensland’s outstand-
ing political and legal identities for many
years. A Londoner born, he came to Queens-
land in 18G1, and after serving articles with
his father at Ipswich was admitted a solici-
tor in 1867. Called to the Bar 11 years
later, he entered Parliament as member for
Bowen, and was Attorney-General under old
Tom Mclllwraith in 1883. The Bench
followed six years later, and for long he sat
in the Supreme Court in Townsville. With
the late Pope Cooper, C. J., and Justice Real,
he was swept oft' the bench by the Act passed
by the Theodore Government in 1922, fixing
an age limit for the State judiciary. A
notable rifleshot in his time, he was a mem-
ber of the Queensland Light Horse as long
ago as 1862.
Vic. Attorney-General Macfarlan is pre-
paring a bill authorising an extra £5OO
apiece for the six Supreme Court Judges.
The rise will mean £3500 for Irvine, C.J.,
and £3OOO each for the other five. Incident-
ally, the pension of each will be lifted by
£250. In 1895 George Turner brought in a
bill providing for the reduction in the pay
of future Supreme Court Judges from £3OOO
to £2500. No appointment was made for 10
years; Cussen was the first to get the lower
figure. Hartley Williams has been drawing
£l5OO a year pension since he left the Bench
nearly 26 years ago. From July 1 County
Court Judges, whose salaries are provided
on the Estimates and not as special appro-
priations, will get a rise of £250 each —£1750
instead of £l5OO.
After 18 years’ service, Billy Gore, senior
Federal land valuer for N. S. Wales, has
retired and gone into practice as a taxation
expert. A Ballarat native, Billy jackerooed
in the Riverina, and later managed runs for
the Bank of N.S.W., Goldsbrough Mort, and
A. B. Triggs. Tap him anywhere and he
gushes expert knowledge on every point of
the pastoral game.
George Barber, of Bundaberg, who escaped
the Labor massacre in Queensland, was a
foundation member of Queensland’s Naval
Volunteer force, which was born as the re-
sult of the growling of the Russian bear in
the ’eighties. He joined as an A.B. and never
either asked for or got promotion. After 27
years’ service lie has just had his hottest
fight at Bundaberg: had the other man been
a little more popular, Barber would have
thudded.
Gaertner brothers, of Sydney, are proud
grandsons of Charles, who sailed from
France under a contract with Napoleon 111.
to open up country pear Pita. He built his
homestead where busy Noumea now stands.
Convicts gave the settlers a helping hand ;
Kanakas, who were numerous, gave a lot of
trouble. On the first night of the big
Kanaka insurrection in 1878 the natives
slaughtered 200 whites. Naturally, as young
Gaertner grew up, he developed into a crack
rifle-shot and agile horseman, His sons
settled in business in Sydney.
Among the salvage from the wreck of the
Queensland Labor party are three old mates
from Charters Towers. Johnny Mullan, the
postman who became Attorney-General, was
member for the Towers for years before re-
treating to his pocket-borough in Flinders.
Vernon Winstanley was then Mullan’s off-
sider as member for Queenton, which in-
cludes p von of the goldfield. W. J. Wel-
lington was for long secretary of the Towers
branch of the old Miners’ Union, and it was
his boast that he had never engineered a
strike. He took Mullan’s place in the Tow-
ers seat.
Herbert Brookes, the new Australian Com-
missioner to the US.A., first attracted public
attention by a notable speech at the A.N.A.
conference at Bairnsdale 25 years ago in con-
demnation of the importation and employ-
ment of Chinese in South African mines.
Brookes argued that as soldiers
had fought and died in the Boer War Aus-
tralia had a right to raise its voice in pro-
test, and he regarded the silence of the
executive of the Natives’ Association as dis-
creditable. Brookes was supported by Vin-
cent Nolan, then a teacher and now a lawyer,
and the tide was running strongly in favor
of the critics when George Wise, afterwards
M.H.R. and P.M.G., rose and turned it.
Wise’s speech was one of the finest he ever
delivered. So Brookes was beaten, but repu-
tations are not always made on the winning
side.
The secretaryship of the Grand Bodge of
Australasian Oddfellows goes to Brother
“Billy” Newton, who was originally with
Griffith and Hassel, the Sydney patent-
attorneys. He was one of the foundation
members of the -Sydney Clerks’ Union.
Despairing of disturbing Alec Peacock at
Allandale, Laborite W. J. McGrath, a distant
relative of ex-Premier Hogan, has trans-
ferred to Walhalla. So the Speacock will
have either a walk-over or a weak opponent
—most likely a walk-over. It is 40 years
since the district first elected him.
B. G. Lawrance, M.A., the new head of
the C. of E. Grammar School at Southport
(Q.) —a very flourishing secondary institu-
tion —is an old English Public School boy
(of Dulwich, where he captained the Rugger
XV, and of Jesus College, Cambridge, where
he took classical honors). He was classical
master at the Armidale School (N.S.W.) be-
fore he went to Ipswich Grammar .School
(1908-14), afterwards had his own school at
Glen Innes, and still plays cricket, tennis
and golf.
Colonel S. G. Savige, commanding the 24th
Battalion, Citizen Forces, which “trooped the
color” at Wattle Park (Vic.) the other day
in memory of those who fell in the parent
A.I.F. battalion, commenced his military
career as a private with the original 24th
in 1914. He got his first star on Gallipoli,
and after two years in France went to Persia
with the Dunsterforce. His adventures
there are recounted in that capital little
book “Stalkey’s Forlorn Hope.”
Adelaide has lost its oldest chorister—ll.
G. Nash. Born in Tasmania in 1845, in
1865 he was in the Cathedral choir at
Ballarat, and then for 40 years sang in the
Anglican Cathedral at Adelaide. He was
a noted concert singer, too, in his day.
All but one of her 14 children had crossed
over before Mrs. Diana Jones, of Newtown,
Sydney, closed the book at its 90th chapter.
Born in the Ilaymarket, she married and
ventured out to the Lachlan goldfields with
her husband, and was forced on one occa-
sion to mend the shirts of bushranger Ben
Hall’s gang.
Norwood, an Adelaide suburb, has named
a new pavilion on its oval after Edwin
T. Smith, who lived all his long life
MICHAEL MYERS, K.C., of Wellington,
who has been appointed. Chief Justice
of Maoriland in succession to the late
Charles Skerrett.
in that district. Adelaide ought to have a
similar memorial; no long purse has ever
been more freely put at sport’s disposal than
E. T. Smith’s was. A great host he was,
too. Every English XI, from W. G. Grace’s
time for 20 years on was banqueted at the
Smith home on its last evening in Australia.
Having a 75th birthday this month, George
Dowling, the Adelaide wool expert. With
experience in the London market before com-
ing to Australia nearly half a century back,
he was chairman of S.A. woolbrokers for
some 30 years, and was chairman of direc-
tors of Bagot, Shakes and Lewis, in Adelaide,
before it merged into Goldsbrough, Mort and
Co., whose local wool manager he still is.


Poverty
Point
The Rev. John”: I have not yet heard a
parson pray publicly for the soul of a Tivoli
comedienne (B. 22/5/’29), but I have ex-
perienced something similar am} quite as
dramatic. It was in a big sub-
urban hall during the progress
of a charity concert. A recita-
tion was going well, when from
the back of the auditorium
boomed a voice reminiscent of
the. prophets of old on commi-
nution bent. “Don’t make a
mockery of the Church!’ it
echoed, and, as the staggered
elocutionist essayed to piece his
broken passage, re-echoed. It
was an electric moment; the
audience sat as though para-
lysed, and the elocutor, a very
popular fellow doing his turn
for nix, nearly wept. The para-
lysing agent was the fact that
the oration was that hackneyed
old thing that has done service
at a million church concerts,
The Grand Bumper Degree” !
The protester, an Anglican
clergyman, objected to the but-
ting of the parson by the initia-
tory goat!
“L. de R.”: There should be
a great run on the works of
Beethoven, Mozart, Bach,
Brahms and other of the im-
mortals as the result of Mel-
Tivoli’s decision to offer
±5O for an “Australian” song
for American comedienne Dora
Maughan on the theme of “The
Bad, Bad Women of History
Have Nothing on Me.” Long
experience of vaudeville has con-
vinced me that there are no new
tunes left. With the advent of
syncopation, any intelligent com-
poser can smother his stolen
goods under a mass of decora-
tion, and that is how most
new” popular songs are made.
Une leading Australian com-
poser of this sort was frank
enough to put it in a nutshell
to me the other day when I
asked him whether his next pro-
jected flight of inspiration would
be a success. “It ought to be,”
he remarked; “if was the last
time it teas used!”
Third Usher”: There was
much moaning con-
cerning the effect the talkies will
have .on spoken English ; but
mn t it just as probable that the
Yanks, in their eagerness to
hold the British market for
speaking-films, will so people
their talkies with artists who
speak real English that littD
Hiram and Sadie, instead of
growing up with their present
blend of Elizabethan and Bow-
ery English, will speak in the
pohshed phrase of Stanley
Bruce?. Then, indeed, would
Bunkers Hill and the Versailles
Covenant be avenged.
_ • Despite the word
in t heir - t avor (B-
.musical critics occa-
sionally thud. Years ago in
Melbourne the brethren dealt
harshly with Max Schluter. a
visiting violinist, who, though
perhaps not a Ivreisler or an
Elman, was, at any rate, in the
next rank. Schluter then got a
printing-office friend to run him
oft a dozen or so altered pro-,
gi amines, and caused them to
be supplied to the press reps.
Next day the Melbourne papers
came out with meat-axe criti-
cisms of alleged shortcomings in
pieces which had not been
played !
“Wakatu”: The Fuller-Hay-
wards new Majestic picture-
theatre in Maoriland’s capital
is an elaborate show. It is said to have
cost £170,000, and the only material not
of M.L. manufacture in it is the steel.
Even the projection machinery is of a type
invented by a Maorilander. It has a tea-
and luncheon-room, with a glass danci.ng floor
illuminated from below by 1000-odd colored
lights, alleged to be the first of its kind in
Australasia.
“Shop.”: Sydney Tivoli audience on ’Var-
sity night witnessed two extremes in diplomacy.
Jack Barty, after missiles had been thrown
at him, leapt off the stage into the stalls to
deal out stoush to one of the students. That
settled Barty’s chance of continuing with his
turn. Altogether different was the manner in
which the Aurora troupe of cyclists got down
to business. Lining up on the stage, they asked
the students to get the heaving of over-
ripe fruit and the like over before they com-
menced their act. Their appeal had direct
results. They went through their act with-
out interruption, and were cheered by the
students both inside the theatre and out-
side after the show.
“Cauboy”: “The Five-o’clock Girl,” now
being surveyed in the flesh at Melbourne
Royal, had a brief, hectic career at Holly-
wood. M.-G.-M. essayed to screen the thing
with Marion Davies in the load, but after
nearly a month’s si’ent and talkie shooting
the attempt was given up. The experiment
is alleged to have cost £35,000--and didn’t,
of course.
“Cine Ma”: The latest industrial disabi-
lity is Kleig’s Tcnsils, which is rampant
among the stars of Hollywood, and is said
to be due to their having to open their
mouths in front, of the microphone, thus
exposing the tonsils to the powerful studio
lights. Another complaint due to the same
cause, which has long been evident, is known
as Kleig’s Eye.
“Adam Ant”: Some names, culled from
London playbills, which are known here:
Matlieson Lang, at the Duke of York’s;
Howett Worster, at Drury-lane: Marie
Bohr, at 11.M.T. ; Athol Tier (“Silly but
Soothing”) at the Victoria Palace; Ann
Suter at the Coliseum; Vera Pearce in
“That’s a Good Girl” at the Hippodrome;
George Gee. in “Virginia” at the Palace;
Lester Matthews and Clarence Blakiston, in
“Aren’t We All?” at Tom Wall’s Fortune
Theatre, Drury-lane. By the way, a revue
at the Chelsea Palace is titled “One Dam’
Thing After Another,” which sounds like
theatric candor.
“A.G.M.” : The Dayton Westminster Choir
THE BENEFACTOR.
“In reply to the question, ‘What has been gained by the timber strike?’ Mr. Reeves (of the I.W.W.)
replied that many hundreds of workers now know where the Domain is, and are able to hear the
workers’ aims and objects explained.”
THE AGITATOR: “Why, but for us, those poor cows over there, instead of finding out where
the Domain is, might ve been earning money and paying rent to a brutal landlord.”
has come to London and gone, with its mil-
lionaire sponsor, Mrs. H. E. Talbott, and
its string of golden voices. The farewell
concert in the Albert Hall drew unreserved
applause from a great audience, and direc-
tor E. J. Carroll was a happy man. The
conductor, the singers and Mrs. Talbott were
all so delighted with their visit that they
are eager now to test the quality of Aus-
tralian audiences. If they should make the
visit, Mrs. Lo-Rean H'odapp, soprano soloist,
is sure to capture all hearts, for to a voice
of wonderful* purity she unites a delightful
personality. The choristers’ exact striking
of the pitch without any of the customary
aids astonished everybody, and even the most
reticent of critics emphasised the purity of
their voices and always-perfect intonation.
Mrs. Talbott belongs to the clan of which
Lord Shrewsbury is head, and there are
three other millionaires in the singing
organisation.
“Wood’s Green” (Lond.) : Vera Pearce
does very well in “The New Moon,” the
latest Drury-lane success, portraying with
her excellent sense of comedy the secret and
stout wife of the low comedian. All the
critics have given her a good word. Diana
Wilson is another Australian favorite who
has given an admirable account of herself
in a new production, Jevan Brandon
Thomas’s “Big Fleas,” which is provoking
much laughter at the Comedy.
“C. 8.”: William Valentine, the juvenile
lead of “The Five-o’clock Girl,” the new
songandance affair at Melbourne Royal, has
connections with Maoriland. Valentine, sen.,
is a member of the House of Reps.
“Lond.”: A canny dramatist has given
Marie Tempest a great line in her latest
play, “Her Shop,” at the Criterion. Some-
one speaks of the attractiveness of youth
and beauty, to which the veteran artist
comes back, “There are other qualifications,
thank God !” It gets the sympathetic audi-
ence every time.
“Fauteil”: Brunettes were in demand as
usherettes at the Plaza, Melbourne’s theatre
under a theatre —the architect said that dark
girls were essential to conform to his
Spanish style of decoration. Jaded picture-
goers are now awaiting a designer with an
Eden complex.
“Mako” : The action of comedian Barty in
leaving Sydney Tivoli stage and tackling an
obstreperous member of the undergrad, audi-
ence had several precedents. An early one
occurred in the days of the famous Caran-
dini opera co. In a Maoriland city Madame
Carandini had just finished a solo and was
bowing profoundly when a bunch of car-
rots landed on the stage. Her husband, an
athletic vocalist, immediately leapt over the
footlights and sought battle with a youthful
bank clerk who had hurled the vegetable
insult. That clerk is now a long-super-
annuated bank manager with a splendid
record behind him.
“Cauboy”: What the trade elegantly
styles “high-’at opera” may shortly be seen
and heard on Australian screens. Photo-
phone Pictures have already filmed “II Tro-
vatore” with a distinguished cast.
“Cine Ma” : One of the present heads of
Hoyt’s was, 17 years ago, a limelight opera-
tor in a Bourke-street vaudeville-house. The
movies were just beginning to come in, and a
friend urged him to go in for them for all he
was worth. He .was worth only £250, but he
managed to raise a similar amount, and
with this renovated a hall and started a
modest show. To-day he is one of the par-
ties in a struggle between two rival organi-
sations whose joint capital is £4,000,000.
“Spokesliave”: The genial Frank Talbot,
whose hobby is the pretty little Athenaeum
Theatre in Collins-street, Melbourne, is a
complete convert to the talkies. After ex-
perimenting with legitimate drama for years
with in-and-out results he tried “The Jazz
Singer.” It is now in its 17th weelq and
with four sessions daily has overtopped the
400th-performance mark.
“C.R.”: Sydney will be the first Aus-
tralian city to have its marrow frozen by
“Dracula.” Nat Madison will be Renwick
and Ashton Jarry will be the Hungarian
count who achieves rejuvenation without the
aid of Steinach by sucking children’s veins.
It is 20 years since Brain Stoker’s horrible
book gave me insomnia, and I never imagined
it would ever see the footlights. The boom
in mystery plays has prepared the public for
anything, apparently.
“Cine Ma” Hungary has produced the
most drastic restrictions on imported films
to date. For every 20 pictures introduced
the producer has to make one in Hungary
itself. Otherwise lie pays double the ordi-
nary import tax, and American makers say
that that is nearly prohibitive. What hurts
the Americans is to find that the money col-
lected is spent on local companies, most
of them offshoots of active German cinema
concerns.
“Lever de Rideau”: There is a touch of
unconscious humor in a recent remark of
Pavlova, that there is no reason why the Eng-
]ish should not become as pro-
ficient in dancing as the Russians.
It will make no apparent difference
if they do. I complimented a
“Russian” member of Pav.’s pre-
vious troupe on the perfection of
his English accent, but he gallantly
refused to accept merit for the
fact. Both his parents happened
to be English, and as soon as he
attained the Russian degree of
proficiency in the dance he auto-
matically became M. Vladivostok-
ski, or something of the sort.
“L. de R” : How did the notion
get about that Australian singers
have no platform deportment to
compare with Italian, Russian and
German vocalists? John Brown-
lee put his foot through the fiction
during his concert tour after the
last grand-opera season, and bari-
tone H'arold Williams has just
done it again at the Melbourne
Auditorium. Rapturous claims*
were made for the personality of
Chaliapin when he leaned against
the Steinway at that same theatre,
but I was never able to see that,
apart from his majestic voice, the
big, simple Slav had any more de-
portment than an umbrella. And
his gestures were approximately as
appealing as those of a traffic cop.
“Avril”; The news that Emma
Temple is getting many recalls and
glowing press .notices in England
is gratifying to those Australians
who always appreciated the bril-
liant trio of sisters of which Mrs.
Brough and Bessie Major were the
other two. Years ago Oscar Asche
recognised the genius of Miss
Major and lured her to London,
where he “retained” her even when
he had no suitable part for her,
and where London Times re-
marked : “It has remained for Aus-
tralia to send us the perfect Dame
Quickly.” Judged not only on the,
English endorsement of their
abilities, but also by the standard
of latter-day “stars,” Australia
was entertaining angels unawares
in the three sisters.
“Adsum”: Fullers made a dis-
covery when they hooked Charlie
Norman into their cast for “Rio
Rita” at Perth. Making the best
of the bad luck that had hit the
Gayle-Wyer revue company, Charlie
was doing the country smalls when
he snapped the Fuller bait. He
made good at a bound, and led in
the honors of Fullers’ first big and
highly profitable revusical show in
the Westralian capital.
“O. Kay”: Sixteen full-blooded
Maoris have been shipped to Holly-
wood to take part in the M.-G.-M.
film “Under the Southern Cross.”
The negatives are to be made both
silent and noisy. Foreign coun-
tries will get the silent and Eng-
lish-speaking countries the other.
Henare’s war-cries will be a fea-
ture.
“Immogen” : Outstanding among
the points of good talkies is the
small amount of Amurrican in the
voices. Take “Interference,” for
instance. Only in Doris Kenyon
and the clerk of the flats is notice-
able the U.S. touch to the spoken
English. A point to notice (and
producers will have to notice it)
is, however, the absence of patrician
or cultured English. The timbre
of Evelyn Brent’s voice is that to
be heard in any suburb when two
women of the people exchange
backchat over tlie party-fence; that
of most of the others is average
middle-class, even Clive Brook’s.
FILM LANGUAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She’d quarrelled with her boy, she bid
Me note, and “given him tnd gate”;
It bothered me to see the kid
So palpably disconsolate.
“Forget,” I urged, “your ruffled pride.
What was it put you in a huff?”
She choked a sob and said, “He tried
To pull a line of cave-man stuff.”
“Amantium irae” —l began,
Being at doggerel Latin pat.
“A man!” she shrilled ; “he isn’t a man
Who thinks a girl will stand for that.
As if”—she dabbed her pretty eyes—
“lßs jealous tantrums weren’t enough
To make a sweetie tired, he tries
To pull a line of cave-man stuff.”
O screens with babes (and dames) that go
To parties where they “neck” and “pet”;
Where sheiks, their hawklike eyes aglow
With love, incessantly are met;
The meanings in your argot hid
Are sometimes just a little tough.
I wonder what it was lie did
To “pull a line of cave-man stuff”?
What was it that aggrieved the miss
And raised the devastating breeze?
Maybe too vehement a kiss,
Belike an over-ursine squeeze.
Or did he pick her up to show
His ownership, with ardor rough,
And down the road careering go?
Perhaps. He sought—no more we know—
To pull a line of cave-man stuff.
N.B.W.
T. THE R.


Here’s Absolute Proof
of the Goodness of
-
the famous money-saving family remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS, CROUP,
■
mm
Mr. DON ROSS, who says “HEENZO should be used
in every home.”
BRONCHITIS and
INFLUENZA.
You can save much money on your family cough-mixture bills by simply adding
sweetened water to a two-shilling bottle of concentrated Heenzo. By doing this you
will have a supply equal in quantity, and superior in quality, to eight ordinary-sized
bottles (about £! ’s worth) of the usual ready-made-up cough and influenza remedies.
Over 12,000 people have written letters saying they have proved Heenzo equally good
for children or adults as a remedy for speedily banishing sore throats, coughs, colds,
croup, bronchitis, influenza and whooping cough.
Here’s proof of the goodness of HEENZO
The following letter from Mr. Don Ross, whose popular comedy musical act has
delighted thousands of Australian amusement-lovers, is absolute proof of the goodness
of Heenzo as a family remedy for ailments of the chest and throat:—
“Music Store,”
The Manager, Railway Square,
Heenzo, Carlton.
Dear Sir, —For some years my wife has kept our kiddies free from coughs and
colds by using Heenzo at the first sign of chest and throat ailments. However,
recently I contracted a severe cold whilst travelling by train to Lithgow, and it left
me with a cough that simply refused to let me sleep. As the goodness of Heenzo had
already been proved by the rest of the family, I decided to try it myself, with the result
that I obtained relief right from the first dose. Within twenty-four hours the feverish
conditions had vanished, and all signs of the hacking cough had completely disappeared.
From the experience gained in our household, I have no hesitation in saying Heenzo
should be used in every home. Yours faithfully,
DON ROSS.
Every leading Chemist and Store in Australia sells and recommends HEENZO
Good news for sick folk!
When we say that money cannot buy a better tonic than Hean’s Tonic Nerve Nuts for restoring the health of people who are run-
down, nervy, neurotic, anaemic or out-of-sorts, we substantiate the claim by publishing the formula of this popular tonic. Hean s
Tonic Nerve Nuts contain calcium, glycerophosphate, carbonate of iron, extract cascara sagrada and capsicin. They are
compounded in tablet form, and your own doctor will tell you what an excellent formula this is for restoring the health of
people suffering from ailments caused by exhausted nerves, poorness of blood, overwork or worry. Modern chemistry has
proved the advisability of preparing such remedies in tablet form, for it solves the problem of correct doses, and is more
convenient for taking and carrying by users. Modern laboratory methods have made it possible for Hean’s Tonic Nerve Nuts
to be sold to the public at a reasonable price, for boxes containing 1 2 days’ supply cost only 3/-, and, in most cases, good health
is assured by the taking of two or three boxes. In the treatment of long-standing ailments the use of six boxes is advised.
HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS


v>
TOURIST
Shirts
12/6
MADE
TO
MEASURE
and from English Shirtings in Self-
toning Blues and Mottled Effects. No
shirt fits as well or is as comfortable
as one made to your Measure, and
the Price is no dearer than a ready-
to-wear garment. Tailored in our
own Workrooms.
Send for patterns and measurement
forms.
12/6 to Measure and 3J p.c. Discount for Cash.
ROTHWELLS OUTFITTING
-^LIMITED
EDWARD STREET
BRISBANE
fs
Why be satisfied with less?
SHARE in the benefits that P. & C. Assurance brings ! When times
are hazardous the company keeps policies in force ; a definite
sum is set aside each year for loan purposes. P. &C. policies
are planned to meet the special needs of the man on the land —these
are the things that have resulted from the co-operative basis of the
P. &C. The further fact that the company is linked with the most
influential co-operative bodies in the Commonwealth is yet another
factor in the stability of the company. When such advantages can
be obtained at no extra cost, why be satisfied with less ?
Chairman of Directors: Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C, Man. Director: H. Fell
PRODUCERS V CITIZEN S
==. COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD
HI 114 -HO CASTLE REACH ST. SYDNEY «=
USHER’S
Sydney’s Leading Residential
Hotel.
Famed for the Excellence of Cuisine.
Table D’Hote or a la Carte.
Rooms with or without private
bath. All rooms fitted with
’phone and running water.
TARIFF INCLUSIVE.
The Famous House Whisky, 0.5. L.,
forwarded to any part of the
Commonweahh.
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel, Sydney.”
64-66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY’ SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The' Desert Song”
Criterion “Pigs”
Royal “This Year of Grace”
Palace (corn. Saturday) “Dracula”
Tivoli Vaudeville
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty’s Pavlova
Royal “The Five-o’clock Girl”
New Comedy “Young Woodley”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
♦-
The Melbourne Office Flapper writes: —
I saw Pavlova at His Majesty’s on Satur-
day. My dear, I was thrilled to bits, and
then some. I mean, we modern girls have
never seen Real Dancing. Of course, I’m
interested in this new step, the. Tile Trot,
which is said to have been inspired by the
sight of two cats on a roof, though I like
the Tortoise Trundle better, but they have
no Romance or Imagination. I mean, a boy
simply grabs you and walks you round a
bit and then takes you to a seat and buys
you a sundae, and if he makes a date with
you for next Friday you know you have
clicked. But there’s no Soul in it. . It
doesn’t make you think of Higher Things.
It just makes you think of the time when
he’ll never want to take you to a dance
because he gets all the exercise he needs
with the lawn-mower on Sunday mornings.
I mean, it makes you think of Marriage.
But Pav. makes you forget the Evil Day,
and you think of real Life and Passion and
Lance Fairfax in “The Desert Song” ‘and
al] that sort of thing.
Well, Pav. danced a thing called “Gazelle."
Gazelle is a girl who is enamored of a peasant
who is really a nobleman in disguise who
has been ordered by his parents to marry a
girl in his own suburb. Well, she dies of
a broken heart, and is taken by the Willises,
no relation to the Richmond Willises but
really spirits of the underworld; and she
dances in the cemetery with them. Well, the
young man’s heart is broken too, but he has
survived the shock, and he comes to the
cemetery to lay flowers on her grave, and
she gets up and dances with him. My dear,
it may sound gruesome, but the way Pavlova
did it, it was simply beautiful. I mean,
Pav.’s dancing simply made you feel that it
would be better to be a broken-hearted ghost
and dance like that in a cemetery with your
young man than just merely to live with him
and burn his meals for him until you both
EVA DAWNAY, helping to mother “Baby Cyclone” at Sydney
St. James.
died of old age and disillusionment and
indigestion.
Well, my dear, I can’t tell you every-
thing that was on the programme, but it
was all wonderful. There were things that
were sad and some that were beautiful and
some that were screamingly funny, and it
simply made one wonder why conversation
was ever introduced into the theatre it was
all so satisfying. And once Pav. fell over
a ballet-girl who had got out of place and lay
as if she were dead, and everybody wondered
if she hadn’t broken anything important, and
the house’s heart simply stopped beating.
But she got up again and went on as if
nothing had happened. The gentleman who
took me said that Pav. was as good as ever,
but Ruth French was only a carbon copy of
her or something, and that Mr. Vladimiroff
wasn’t as good as Mr. Novikoff, who was here
on the last occasion, and that Miss Mather was
only a second emergency compared to Miss
Rogers, a little Maoriland girl that was here
before, and that he seemed to be painfully
struck on. Still, it was absolutely necessary
for him to find something to grumble at. I
mean, he is a Critic with a Reputation.
* ¥ *
Sydney Royal, decked out like the fish-
pond of a charity bazaar, had wished upon
it on Saturday “This Year of Grace,”
Noel Coward’s attempt to translate the con-
tents of an English evening newspaper into
a theatrical entertainment. It is a patchy
show, thick with good things, but very so-so
as a whole. It leaves the impression of
having been created by a clever man after
a debauch on plum wine. In one sense it
is an achievement worthy of its maker;
it criticises a remarkably wide range of
English life. Much of it, and especially its
lead, Maisie Gay, is, however, so alien that
Australian audiences are not likely to be
greatly moved.
There is some general appeal in, say, “A
London Tube Station,” because Sydney also
lias a bit of underground; but things like
“An English Lido Beach” are almost point-
less in their narrow Englishness. Maisie
Gay, a very clever character actress, also
fails through having to portray, as comic,
types that here are not generally regarded
as amusing. Her ageing, tippling and too-
accessible frump singing “What Love Means
to, Girls Like Me” is a sordid conception,
uplifted from sheer dulness only by the
cleverness of the portrayer. Her —or, rather,
it is Noel Coward’s —“La Flammo” is a
coarse caricature of Parisian harlotry; a
heavy brand of humor not improved by the
fact that it involves hearing the female voice
distorted to its piercing worst.
The piece would not seem to offer much
scope for such a typical Australian as Gus
Bluett, but he comes through with colors
high and dry. Much of his stuff is unadult-
erated Bluett —broad, spontaneous, Tivolean
and honestly laughable. The old stunt of
sitting in a box and criticising the show he
works with a gusto and apparent enjoyment
that completely excuses its whiskers. The
best things that can be credited to Coward
are the play parodies (the eternal triangle
as Barrie, Lonsdale and Wallace would
handle it) and caricatures of various current
plays. Dancing—
there is nearly as.
much of it as there
is in a full Pavlova
bill—has two de-
lightful exponents
in Pat and Terry
Kendall.
* *
If there had been
n o Debussy h e
would have had to
be invented for the
benefit of William
Murd o c h. The
sedate-looking Aus-
tralian pianist
revels in the deli-
cate half-tones of
the French master,
as he does in others
o f the modern
school. His Schu-
mann is equally
distinguished by a
reflective touch and
a sane, scholarly
regard for the gen-
eral sense and
cohesion of a work.
Last week’s reci-
tals at Melbourne
Auditorium further
enlarged this
paper’s affection
for the Victorian.
Murdoch is no
showman in the
accepted sense of
the word. Conse-
quently his recep-
tion is not of the
sort that demands
more and more en-
cores which stead-
ily descend the
scale of artistic
merit until they
reach the pianistic
level of “Knocked ’Em in the Old Kent
Road.”
All the showmanship required for an even-
ing’s entertainment is provided by Harold
Williams, who makes pretty bows, smiles and
archly forgets his lines, and has to begin
again—a somewhat threadbare device intro-
duced here, but unfortunately not patented,
by Joe Hislop, the Scottish warbler. Wil-
liams has a glorious baritone with lovely
sustained tones which he used to perfection
in a group of delightful Gallic ditties, but
sadly misused in other numbers. The dia
bolical laughter that concluded Verdis
“Credo” and the raucous shouting of “King
Charles” portended permanent damage to
the singer’s vocal chords and made John
Longstaff drop his eyeglasses.
* ¥ *
The most successful recital last week was
the one at which the pianist played beauti-
fully Beethoven’s somewhat neglected Sonata
Pathetique and the vocalist warbled Liza
Lehmann’s four Cautionary Tales plus a
Moral. Williams not only has his magnifi-
cent baritone under
autocratic c o n-
trol, but can play
on the heartstrings
of his audiences to
further orders and
per medium o f
almost any trifle.
On Thursday his
hearers howled
with delight at the
story of Rebecca,
who slammed doors
for fun and per-
ish e d miserably ;
Jim, who ran away
from his nurse and
was eaten by a
lion; Matilda, who
told lies and was
burned to death;
Henry King, who
chewed string and
was early cut off in
a dreadful man-
ner ; and Charles
Augustus Fortes-
cue, who always
did what was right
and accumulated a
fortune.
* *
Brailowsky served
up a very diversi-
fied musical feast
at Sydney Town
Hall on Saturday
night. It was his
fourth recital in
the Harbor City,
and each li a d
raised him further
in esteem among
music-lovers. He
has at times a way
of phrasing a pas-
sage in a manner
peculiar to him-
self, and it takes a little time to realise that
this usually results in the revelation of new
and unsuspected beauties.
On Saturday the chief offering was Liszt s
B minor Sonata, written in the Abbe s
most mystical, pontifical and scornful man-
ner. Contemptuously casting aside the
sonata form as developed by Haydn, Mozart
and Beethoven, with its set divisions and
repetitions, he planned a tone picture that
merges from mood to mood in Wagnerian
fashion. Brailowsky gave a sympathetic and
dignified interpretation. Later, in the
Twelfth Rhapsody, he showed his mastery
of Liszt’s massive orchestral style. Four
Chopin numbers—the F sharp minor
Impromptu, Grand Valse Op. 42, B minor
Mazurka and Third Ballade—were delight-
fully played, especially the ballade, in which
the ship of doom with blood-red sails irre-
sistibly stormed its way over an inky sea.
A rousing Caucasian Dance by Liapounoff
and Rimsky-Korsakoff’s charming lullaby
were the pianist’s tributes to the composers
of his own country, and Debussy’s fanciful
“Reflets dans l’eau” rounded off the bill of
fare. Brailowsky hit the popular taste most
nearly with the Liszt Rhapsody, after which
the applause continued for several minutes.
H. H- H-
In a performance at Sydney Tivoli and
at the Cenotaph last w r eek a party of students
of the Ilarborside University proved once
more that, whatever else it may be good at,
Australian youth makes a clumsy fist of
interpreting the carnival spirit. Instead of
a light and airy presentation, theirs was
a heavy, sordid thing—the throwing of fruit
and tomatoes at some vaudeville performers,
some clumsy attempts to look like jolly good
fellows in the streets, a tossing about of
wreaths and the breaking of a few
glass jars at the memorial, the spectacle of
one or two of their number being lumbered,
and then the rest dragging away with the
beer inside them starting to go flat. About
the only cheerful thing of the evening was
the action of comedian Jack Barty, who got
annoyed, leapt the footlights and biffed one
of the audience. That was rather a pity,
because Barty is a good enough comedian
to have secured himself a fair hearing even
from hooligans. In fact, he and the Aurora
troupe of cyclists were among the few turns
of the evening at which tomatoes should not
have been thrown.
* ¥ ¥
Dora Maughn (or Maughan—you can have
it both ways), the lady who had the curtain
rung down on her by a shocked management
in London, continues to rock Melbourne
Tivoli on its axis. The saucy jade has said
-nothing in The Bulletin’s hearing up to
date to make this respectable paper wish it
had on its asbestos underclothing, and she
is, in addition, a remarkably good looker. In
fact,.it is a long time since Nature has per-
petrated the joke of fitting an American pur-
veyor of smoke-room jests with a face and
figure that would suit the part of Cleopatra.
The Tiv. bill is first-rate at present. It
includes a Scotch comedian with thin legs
and the usual habit of maligning his coun-
try’s reputation for a sense of humor ; and
a lady who strips herself of 14 examples of
MADGE AUBREY, in “This Year of Grace” at Sydney Royal.
the latest Parisian confections while upended
on four tables, a bottle, a chair and a right
arm like Gene Tunney’s.
* * H-
The wholesome fun, witty American lines
and sound Australian acting of “The Patsy”
kept Adelaide Royal busy till “Rio Rita”
arrived. Big Les Pearce is now hero, and
Charles Norman the casual lawyer, other-
wise things are much as of old, but clipped
(especially the Aztec scene) for the smaller
stage. Gladys Moncrieff is in great voice;
Janette Gilmore was an immediate success,
and the ballets are great. Erica Morini pro-
duces nearly divine music at the Town Hall.
# * *
Nellie Bramley’s current offering at Bris-
bane Royal is “Smilin’ Through,” the play
of crinolines which holds itself together so
well that a daily-paper critic has just called
it “a romantic sweet drama.” At any rate,
Nellie Bramley, strongly supported, makes a
fine success of it. Next week, “Polly with
a Past.”
* H- *
Sydney’s most important theatrical event
of the next week or so is the Firm’s attempt
to fill the Palace with women’s shrieks by
putting “Dracula” on there on Saturday
Nat Madison takes the comedy part in the
thriller and Gregan McMahon produces. On
the following Saturday the Ruth Nugent and
Alan Bunce party will desert pork and try
“Applesauce,” yet another American comedy.
To-morrow (Thursday) afternoon Brailow-
sky will play at the Town Hall, and, having
stirred up Sydney music-lovers as very few
pianists are able to do, he will be kept on
by E. J., Carroll to give another concert on
Saturday night.
The Fullers are doing something that
merits encouragement at the St. James —put-
ting on a tiptop little comedy at almost ridi-
culously low prices. Four bob is the highest
charge for evening and three bob for matinee
performances, and the piece, “The Baby
Cyclone,” is a curiously clean and unusually
amusing entertainment. At the Empire
“Clowns in Clover” is in what is called its
second edition, and “The Alarm Clock” shows
no sign of going off the Savoy boards at time
of writing. Very soon there is to be an out-
burst of Dickens —“Oliver Twist” and “A
Tale of Two Cities” at St. James’s Hall on
the 10th and 17th respectively, and billed to
run a week each. Harry Thomas presents,
and his Ex., the Minister for Education, the
Dickens Fellowship and the English-speaking
Union patronise. At the King’s Hall, begin-
ing on the 12th, more Dickens —“A Tale of
Two Cities” put on a fillum and called “The
Only Way.”


The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company, Limited.
Founded 1886.
Assets at 31st December, 1928,
£18,792,732
of which 84% was represented by
Public Securities.
The M.L.C. Charter is constituted to
admit of the issue of policies to meet
the necessities of every class, every age,
every purse. Its range of contracts is
unsurpassed for diversity and liberality,
and the fulfilment of every contract is
guaranteed by the" Company’s capital
and its ever-increasing assurance Funds.
CASH SURPLUS in the Ordinary
Branch for the year 1928, £624,370.
ARTHUR EEDY,
Managing Director.
Head Office: Citizens’ Building, Castlereagh
Street and Martin Place, Sydney.
Who Will Manage Your Estate?
At all times when an individual is appointed as Executor or Trustee
the uncertainty of human life is present. Who is better qualified to
administer your Estate than the
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF NEW SOUTH WALES, LIMITED.
It cannot die, travel or disappear; has had over 40 years' experience
in the management of all classes of Estates, and offers as security the
whole of its capital and assets —over £1,000,000.
Our Explanatory Booklet will be
sent to you Post Free on Request.
THOS. BUCKLAND
JAMES MOIR'
DIRECTORS:
F. N. YARWOOD
(Chairman)
O. E. FRIEND
Lt.-Col. T. F. RUTLEDGE
J. W. Barnes, Manager. E. V. T. Whittle, Asst. Manager.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Roof your House with Tiles
WARM IN WINTER.
COOL IN SUMMER.
HEALTHY FOR
WOMENFOLK.
PURE WATER
FOR TANKS.
SMART
APPEARANCE.
ENHANCED VALUE
OF PROPERTY.
MARSEILLES AND
SPANISH PATTERNS.
Maxwell Porter S Son, Ltd.
Tile and Slate Merchants,
Slaters, Tilers and Shinglers
107 REDFERN ST., REDFERN, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Replacement
Year and De*
ended preciation
March, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1918 .. G 02,290 406,250 815,557 1,068,385
1919 .. 578,830 438,750 955,637 1,313,574
1920 .. 572,349 438,750 1.089,236 1,376,988
Capital returned. £650,000.
1921 .. 781,418 495,625 1,375,029 1,517,130
Capital returned, £1,625,000.
Cash bonus. £203,125.
1922 . . 665,190 446,875 1,593,344 1,585,874
f 498,590 325,000 ? ?
I Fiji and M.L. co. in process of liquidation :
IU „,, J no accounts issued, and profits and reserves
j not disclosed. Capital returned, £1,62.5,000.
I Cash bonus to shareholders from Fiji
l liquidation, £325,000.
f Reserves capitalised, £650,000
1924 j Reserves capitalised, £1,625,000
l 673,639 446,875 1,153,480 1,140.177
1925 .. 760,653 548,437 1,365,696 1,305,857
1926 .. 800,732 609,375 1,557,053 1,404,175
1927 .. 832,797 609,375 1,780,475 1,494,052
Reserves capitalised, £975,000. . 805,475
1928 . . 966,628 731,250 1,040,853 1,723,421
1929 .. 976,306 731,250 1,285,909 1,958,609
Although conditions in the industry were
not all they might have been last year—
they never are—the accounts disclose still
more glittering results. In spite of a sharp
drop in the world's price of sugar, due to
over-production, the year’s declared profit
from the co.’s Maoriland refinery, its exten-
sive growing and milling interests in Fiji
and other investments not subject to Federal
income-tax, was only £34,20(1 short of the
previous year’s figure. Ami that shrinkage
was more than balanced by an increase of
£43,884 in the net earnings from Australian
sources, which reached £524,545, notwith-
standing that the Millaquin 00. (whose re-
finery was burnt about two years ago) was
on tiie market again with its fines.
The £976,30(1 of profit claimed from all
sources was nearly 17 p.c. on capital, so thi
12 i p.c. div. remained a comfortable matter
despite the scattering of £975,000 of bonus
scrip in 1927. Much more comfortable, in
fact, than those figures suggest; for in
tion to formal reserves, totalling £1,285,909,
there is the replacement and depreciation
fund, to which £235,188 (equal to 4 p.c. on
capital) was added during the year, making
it £1,958,609 at March 31, and it may be
taken for granted that some large slices of
genuine profit have been sandwiched there.
Nor is that all. When the books were last
ruled off there was £2,975,642 in suspense
accounts; no less than £640,932 has been
added to these accounts during the last five
years. They are largely provisions for con-
tingencies, and it is more than likely that
portion of them is genuine profit, too. Also
there is no doubt at all that tidy sums have
been parked in other corners.
The £13,675,413 of the co.’s own funds and
borrowed money was employed in this way at
March 31:—
Refineries—Australia and Maoriland .. £2,723,618
Sugar mills and plant, etc.-—-
Commonwealth . . .. .. 2,385,809
Fiji (less £1,625,000 reserve) .. 1,409,883
Ocean steamers . . . . .. . . 100,000
Distillery 115,183
Office premises . . . . .. .. 66,850
' Stocks and some book debts . . .. 2,802,237
Other book debts, investments, etc. .. 1,781,997
Cash, deposits, etc. .. .. .. 2,289,836
£13,675,413
Liabilities—
Sundry creditors .. £1,194,744
Suspense accounts .. 2,975,642
Final div, 1929 . . 365,625
4,536,011
£9,139,402
Mainly because of new works on the river-
bank at Perth £114,843 more was spent on
refineries than was written off during the
year. Also, £70,711 was added to the book
value of the Fiji assets, and a new store
for raw sugar was built in Melbourne at a
cost of £24,000. Over the last 20 years and
more, all additions to fixed assets have been
paid for out of profits; and, although
£7.350,000 has been handed out in gift issues
during that period, the share capital is said
to be still well below the cost of the co. : s
assets. In the present circumstances of the
industry in Australia the C.S.R. can’t help
making a pot of money.
Another feature that attracts attention is
the growth in the liquid surplus:—
Mar.,’27. Mar.,’2B. Mar.,’'29.
Liquid assets .. £6,031,381 £6,452,889 £6,874,071
Liabilities .. 4,142,304 3,994,059 4,170,386
Liquid surplus .. £1,889,077 £2,458,830 £2,703,685
Liabilities there include suspense accounts,
but not the employees’ provident and benefit
funds (£44,884 at March 31). Thus, apart
from additions made to fixed assets, and not-
withstanding the rich dividends paid, share-
holders are visibly £514,608 better off than
they -were two years ago.
Though the current year’s crushings are
expected to fall short of last year’s, the co.’s
outlook is bright. On the technical side the
staff has been able to save a bit more of
the sugar in process, and costs are expected
to benefit too from recent changes in the
plant. But others in the industry elsewhere
are making heavy cuts in costs, and excep-
tional progress has been made of late in
the technique of the beet industry. These
changes will probably produce fiercer compe-
tition, with lower prices in foreign markets.
The investment market nevertheless sees
only clear sky, apparently, and anticipates
the future by offering £5B 30s. for the fully-
paid £2O shares. The immediate return at
that figure is only 4£ p.c. on a 124 p.c. div.
basis. The visible backing, including the
depreciation reserve, amounts to £3l Is. lOd.
per share in net tangibles, and the suspense
accounts represent another £lO 3s. sd. per
share. But much importance need not be
attached to the wide difference between the
market price of the scrip and the book value
of the physical assets. At the same time it
isn’t wise to get the habit of thinking that
nothing can ever happen to stay the co.'s
progress. In Sydney not many years ago
gas shares were viewed much as C.S.R.
shares are to-day; and it is by no means
impossible that the sugar industry may
undergo similar changes. On a world survey
the industry isn’t a large profit-maker:
it is kept so in Australia only by prices
maintained by the Government. In days
to come it seems inevitable that the cost
of living will be more closely scrutinised;
thus far public effort has been directed not
to the lowering of the cost of living but to
the raising of wages. If we arc driven to
alter our policy in that respect, the main-
tenance of the present price-level of sugar
may be very difficult.
Primary Producers’ Bank.
This six-year-old had at February 28 put
out 492,602 £5 7 p.c. cum. prefs. and 22
ords. of £1 each. Thus its subscribed capital
was £2,463,032, an increase of £65 during
the year as against £lO,lOO in the previous
term. Paid capital was £434,435, up £7921
during the year, so there was still £58,167 to
come in when the books last closed.
The prefs., which are called to £l, were
issued at a premium of £1; this was to pro-
vide for heavy formation and other exes.,
including wide and vigorous share-selling,
and for some of the cost of setting up out-
posts which the share-selling activity forced
upon the co. No new branches were opened
last year, apd apparently some of those
already operating did not pay; at any rate,
the premium reserve appears to have been
drawn upon for £7OlB, reducing it to £65,004
at Feb. 28. Assuming that the full amount
of the premium has been received on all
shares issued, establishment, etc., has thus
far run away with £427,598. To represent
that and the paid capital—together, £862,033
—shareholders can see £525,044 belonging to
them in a business scattered over all the
Australian States in. 47 branches and_ 20
agencies.
The result of last year’s trading operations
was a declared net profit of £7073 compared
with £5637, £5204, £3592, £3124 and £975
back to the beginning. Those figures were
written after all charges had been met and
provision made for bad and doubtful debts and
other contingencies, but they do not take into
account movements in the share-premium re-
serve. The estimate of profit has been all
along, and still is, largely a matter of guess-
work ; if not enough w r as charged to develop-
ment the net result pf ordinary banking was
better than the accounts claimed, and not so
good if things were the other way around.
One factor which has, affected profit-earn-
ing is that the co. pays 2 p.c. on customers’
current accounts. How much of the
£1,iX)3,896 held on deposit at Feb. 28 was
“fixed” is not disclosed. But if only £BOO,OOO
was “free” it would mean a payment of
£16,000 ; and this, added to the year’s declared
net profit, is equal to 5.3 p.c. on paid capital.
Incidentally, few of the old-established Aus-
tralian banks show profits better than 8 p.c.
on their total funds (capital and reserves
combined) ; which suggests that until some-
thing substantial in the way of a buttress for
capital has been provided, but very small re-
turns need be looked for from this institution.
Thus far, regular divs. are nowhere in sight ;
and shareholders who are depositors will have
to content themselves with the interest on
their quarterly balances. Also the pref. re-
quirements continue to pile up. Kxactly how
much is now coming to them in divs. depends
upon the dates when capital was received.
On the mean pref. capital 7 p.e. would call
for £34.482 last year, and on the same basis
arrears of divs. at Feb. 28 would have totalled
over £133.000. However, this really means
nothing one way or another, because all but
a few pounds of the capital is money,
so that this accumulated div. doesn’t stand
in anybody’s way. In other words, the
“cumulative” provision is. for all practical
purposes, meaningless in this case.
The business continues to show very satis-
factory expansion, and g.-m. Moffatt carne
to the co. with a good Queensland reputation
as a conservative banker:—
192'.. 1928. 1929.
£ £ £
Subscribed capital.. 2,090,041 2,462,967 2,463,032
Paid capital. . .. 268,759 426,514 434,435
Premium reserve .. 79,603 72,010 65,004
Deposits .. .. 937,369 1,777,398 1,903,896
Dills payable, etc. .. 138,665 39,074 112,733*
Coin and notes . . 35,958 50,650 56,891
Money at short call 227,100 291,000 208,000
Balances due by other
banks .. .. 181,726 117,663 139,848
Commonwealth bonds 55,936 215,007 170,889
Remittances in transit 170,020 104,607 92,7,85
Advances, etc. . . 750,401 1,537,788 1,769,650
Furniture and fittings 7,353 16,812 16,941
Premises . . . . 86,670
“Includes £50,000 owing on premises.
Over the last four years both deposits and
advances have more than doubled. But what
probably pleases the management more than
anything else in those figures is the growth
of £126,498 in last year’s deposits, despite
a marked drop in wool and wheat values.
All the year’s extra deposit money, and
£110,514 of liquids besides, was used for the
most part to meet the stronger demand for
accommodation; advances were £231.862
bigger than at the previous balance. Their
ratio to deposits was 92.9 p.c. compared with
86.6 p.c. and 89.5 p.c. at the two preceding
balances. Liquids thus fell baelc to 33.9 n e.
of the liability to the public as against 42.8
p.c. a year earlier. The fact that the co.
cannot hope to raise new capital in big
slices will limit the further growth of
advances until more deposits can be gathered.
When the books closed at Feb. 28 the bank
was in the strong position of holding only
£3 15s. of the public’s money for every £l
of its own funds.
The lease of the co.’s present head-office
premises in Martin-place, Sydney, runs out
in 1931, and to provide a permanent home
the board bought Chatham House, round the
corner in Pitt-street, for £55,000. Also a
freehold was bought in Brisbane; heney pre-
mises figure at £B6 670, of which £5O 000
was owing when the books last closed. Sine*
then other premises have been purchased in
Vic., S. Aus. and Westralia.
Standard-Waygood, Ltd. (Sydney).
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 16,993 10 p.c. 16,888 105 20,522
1920.. 46,238 10 „ „ 21,600 ]
Special div. (10 p.c.) to pur- 1 3,038 23,560
chase bonus shares, £21,600 J
£lOO,OOO (in shares) paid for Deficit.
English Electric connection .. .. 76,440
1921.. 26,750 Nil 26,750 49,690
Bonus to subscribers to now share i-^uo,
paid in Weymouth scrip, £23,760.. 73,450
1922.. 46,543 10 p.c. = 35,842 10,701 ,-*9
Reserves.
Goodwill shares cancelled, £100,000.. 37.251
1923.. 37,175 10 p.c. = 36,912 263 37,514
1924.. 37,501 10 „ „ 36,982 519 3.8,033
■ Recovered from Sydney Council, £16.447 54.480
1925.. 5,000 5 p.c. = 18,491 41,589
1926.. 10,982 2} „ „ 9,246 1,736 43,325
Added to reserves . . . . 11,205 54,530
1927.. 19,657 5 p.c. = 18,491 1,166 55,696
1928.. ,29,158 27,736 1,422 57,118
Plant written down £183,305 —7s. 9d.
struck off each share, balance ( £40,000)
taken from reserves. 2s. 3d. per share
returned in cash . . . . . . 17,118
1929.. 22,615 10 p.c. = 18,491 4,124 21,242
The paid capital has been cut in halves, re-
ducing it to £184,910. This drastic action
was necessary because the eo. has been
unable to earn anything like a reason-
able profit with the heavy tools in
its Clyde workshops. More than two-thirds
of the capital was represented by these
shops, which were put up in 1921 to manu-
facture turbo-alternators and other heavy
electrical goods, and, all told, cost the co.
over £300,000. At the time good profits were
to be won in this class of business, and
from the support promised by the Govern-
ment and other public bodies the future
looked right. But scarcely had manufacture
commenced than one trouble was heaped
upon another; hours were reduced, wages in-
creased, the price of supplies of one kind
and another mounted rapidly, and costs
generally got out of hand. Hence the co.,
though it could make as efficient turbo-alter-
nators as those imported, could not success-
fully compete in price against the foreign
article, even with the assistance of the pre-
sent duty.
Recently the board valued the Clyde works
on a 10 p.c. basis at £75,000; and they stood
in the books at £258,305. It was decided to
right the position by wiping out the dil-
ference (£183,305) ; to square the accounts
£40,000 of reserves were rubbed out and
7s. 9d. was struck off each £1 share. I ur-
tlier, the shutting down of the heavy electri-
cal goods department released some working
capital. Part of this was used to wipe out
the debenture debt (£33,400 at the close of
accounts in 1928), and as profitable employ-
ment for the balance, or most of it, could
not be found in the business, 2s. 3d. per
share was returned in cash. Then the shares,
which had been thus reduced to 10s. each,
were consolidated into £1 shares. Takings
will now chiefly depend upon activities in
the electric-lift, electric-transformer and
switch-gear departments, all of which have
been kept fairly busy in the past.
The £22,015 netted last year was £<3043
below the previous year’s figure, but the
latter was swollen by heavy deliveries of
completed work just before the accounts
closed in 1928. The year’s result, which
was equal to 12.2 p.c. on capital as reduced,
was well above the average for the last four
years. Appearances are that, under fair
conditions, things should not have to be cut
too fine in order to pay 10 p.c. Of
course, competition is becoming keener,
especially in lifts; but the 00. has built up
a splendid goodwill, to which no value has
been given in the books, its finances are
quite comfortable, and for the 15 years to
1924 shareholders never got less than 10 p.c.,
which is a pretty good testimonial to the
co.’s management.
Here are balance-sheet figures:—
1924. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Capital . . £369,820 £369,820 £369,820 £184,910
Debentures .. 33,400 83,400 33,400 300
Liabilities .. 67,965 31,464 37,882 41,512
Propertv and
plant . . 290,046 280,400 280,000 108,Sll
Stock and work 129,035 106,349 84,726 62,062
Book debts
cash, etc. . . 56,173 76,515 104,878 49,275
Subsidiaries, etc. 70,944 45,607 47,107 46,807
The more or less liquid surplus (£G9,525)
was £48,797 lighter than at the previous
balance, but that was almost wholly
accounted for by the return of capital.
Efforts are being made to sell a freehold at
Concord and another at Waterloo; the tw'o
had a book value of £27,926 at March 31..
As regards plant, everything possible is
being done to improve its efficiency, the
chairman says.
Of the co.’s subsidiaries Lifts Inspection
and Insurance, Ltd., and McCullas. Ltd., do
not publish their figures, but the “Wild Cat”
believes they are both making profits. Wey-
mouth's, Ltd., whose premises and stocks
were destroyed by fire in January, is being
reconstructed on a smaller scale. It is pro-
posed to return 6s. Sd. per share and to
write off a further 3s. 4d., thus reducing the
paid capital from £52,500 to £26.250. For
the three years to June 30, 1927, it paid
5 p.c., but the div. was passed last year,
and none is expected for the current term.
The market pays only 21s. 6d. for
Standard-Waygood shares, which have a
backing of 225. 3d. in net tangibles, nearly
half of it in the two freeholds, referred to
above, and surplus liquids. The return at
that price is 9.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Burns, Philp (South Sea) Co., Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Dee., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1920.. 102,846 10 p.c. = 75,000 27,846 27,846
1921.. 57,549 7J „ „ 56,250 1,299 29,145
1922.. 4,192 Nil 4,192 33,337
1923.. 37,791 5 p.c. = 37,500 291 33,628
1924.. 51,272 6} „ „ 46,875 4,397 38,025
1925.. 60,806 6* „ „ 50,000 10.806 48,831
1926.. 56,725 6j „ „ 50,000 6,725 55.556
1927.. 64,104 7.1 „ „ 53,125 10,979 66,535
1928.. 65,141 7J „ „ 56,250 8,891 75,426
This is the co. which, in 1920, took over
the extensive island produce and shipping
business that had been built up by the big
Burns-Philp organisation. The parent got
a round half-million in paids for the assets,
and 8.-P. shareholders put up £250,000 in
cash; thus the pup has a paid capital of
£750,000. Goodwill did not figure in the
deal. When the co. was launched the post-
war price boom was at its peak, and very
presently the markets for island produce col-
lapsed and earnings have been since affected
by reduced values. Partly because of this
shareholders have not had much out of the
business so far—an average of only 6.3 p.c.
since the beginning, and £75,426, or 15.6 p.c.
of the total declared net earnings, has been
visibly accumulated.
Last year three new branches were opened
in Fiji and one at Norfolk Island, and the
co.’s shipping services were kept busy, but
there was little, if any, improvement on the
low values ruling for island produce in the
previous term. The £65,141 of declared net
profit was 8.6 p.c. on capital compared with
8.5, 7.6, 8.1 and 6.8 p.c. back to 1924. Never-
theless gross profits sprang £19,799, which
suggests that there was further marked ex-
pansion in the volume of trade handled. The
brisk pace at which the business has been
stepping along, and what the board says it


‘UTie '/Ruling ‘Preference
t'i
/T-cZXtr
I
W m
Sss
,N^,-'
Wi
>-V
\m
tm
$*>
m
w
r/
y
?•
c35
:'■!
t£2S%xrrgf>
s
,
I;
■
s
Pllgl
■ <
i;
:
if
%
rf* 5
lie/
ms
m
m
iS»
M
m
m
u<
m
mM:
c.o
kW
iw
e o
0*
bor
»«.o
66
(gold label)
SOT


Wool & Wheat
|| Are Down
What will happen next?
Certainly some invest-
ments will suffer.
The wise man will watch
his little lot.
You may have every-
thing in insurance poli-
cies. All the more
reason to see the offices
are sound. There are
offices that are not
sound.
The leading Australian
authority on all these
matters is
“THE ‘WILD CAT’
MONTHLY.”
JUNE NUMBER ON SALE SATURDAY
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM,
22/6. From Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne. Advt.
It is interesting to note the wonderful sendee
records put up by Pioneer Wood Pipe on many
important installations. There is little doubt as to
the wonderful efficiency of this modern conduit—it
has proved itself wherever it has been installed.
Low cost simplicity and ease of laying, absence of
heavy maintenance costs, long life and entire absence
of corrosion are all features of Pioneer Wood Pipe*;
Send for illustrated catalogue giving Ml mforma
tion to the Australian Wood I Vove' ’ N S W
Bay Road (near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, JN.b.w.
—Advt.
Mining Properties.— l have London Capital
available for approved Properties—Gold, Tin, lode
or alluvial, and Silver-lead Reply vnth particuto
to “London,” c/o Mercantile Exchange, 380 Collins
Street, Melbourne, G.l. — Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents.— Advt. #
* *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Colmsok & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradieator of prickly, pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree.^— Advt.
Hvdraulic Power Electric and Hydraulic Lifts
Limited (incorporated, by Act of Parliament,
1888) hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Mercantile Mutual Build-
ing, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES IN VARIOUS STATES.
May’s Broadcast Fertiliser Spreader
Hu hum- %
8
r 4
Call and Inspect.
To Farmers and Graziers
The season is now approaching for
top-dressing your lands, and here
.is the Ideal Machine for the job.
Spreads up to 40ft. 50-100 acres
per day.
SIMPLE—CHEAP—EFFECTIVE.
PRICE: £2l net f.o.r. Sydney.
For use with Spring Cart.
£2 extra for Motor-lorry attachments.
AGENTS WANTED.
AGENTS:
GUTHRIDGE, LTD., 10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney.
INSURE WITH THE
I
Australian General
Insurance Company Ltd.
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT,
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION,
MOTOR-CAR.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
Agencies in all Suburban and Country Centres.
has cost to handle the quickly-mounting turn-
over, is seen in this next comparison:—
Gross Exes. p.c.
Profit. Exes. of Gross.
1923 .. .. £124,909 £87,118 69.7
1924 . . . . 153,783 102,511 66.7
1925 '.. .. 169,632 108,826 64.1
1926 . . . . 163,457 106,732 65.3
1927 . . .. 161,785 97,681 60.4
1928 .. . .. 181,584 116,443 64.1
Exes., which took all but £1037 of the
improvement in last year’s gross profits, in-
clude unspecified amounts struck off for
depreciation, bad debts and losses, and maybe
the careful control —it is the same as in
8., P. and Co. —puts by. more than might be
strictly necessary under those heads when
opportunity offers.
Since 1923 the co. has bought five steamers
—one was put into commission last year —a
coal hulk and an auxiliary ketch. Also it
has taken over the businesses of Merediths
(Samoa), Ltd., and the Samoa Shipping and
Trading Co., Ltd., and has bought the free-
hold of Nassau and Sophia islands and a
lease of the Phceuix group—several of the
islands were fully planted with cocoanuts.
During the last 12 months the freehold of
the co.’s Suva premises was bought—price
not disclosed —and a new concrete-and-steel
building is going up on the spot. All this
for an increase of £142,215 in the book
value of properties, etc.
Here is another view of the co.’s growth
and also of its very snug financial position:
1923. 1926. 1927.• 1928.
Paid capital.. £750,000 £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities .. 57,058 190,742 91,424 67,286
Proper ties,
wharves, etc. 190,740 236,216 261,554 332,90,>
Stocks afloat.. 353,549 430,390 368,705 229,639
Merchandise. . 179,665 173,502 134,321 168,510
Book debts . . ' 126,148 155,427 155,436 176,242
Cash . . . . 28,083 50,764 41,070 41,616
At the close of last accounts stocks afloat
were £139,066 lighter than at the previous
balance. Thus the management was able
to clip a further £24.138 off the debt, spend
£71,401 more than was written off on fixed
assets, add £34.189 to the book value of
merchandise and carry an extra £20,800 of
book debts. Hence the more or less liquid
surplus (£548,721 at Dec. 31) was £59,097
less than at the previous balance. Incident-
ally, the 1922 figures are a sharp reminder
of what can happen in the island _ trade;
much, therefore, depends upon the basis upon
which stocks have been taken into the sheet.
The outlook for the co. is one of expanding
turnover, and the market expresses its con-
fidence in the management and at the same
time mortgages the future by paying 31s. 3d.
for the pound shares; a year ago they
could be had at 28s. At the current price
the return is only 4.8 p.c. on a 74 p.c. div.
basis. The investor would still be getting
less than 7§ p.c. if the dividend was sent
up to 10 p.c. The visible backing amounts
to 225. per share in net tangibles.
Geo. E. Fortescue and Sons, Ltd.
This little Sydney co., which makes agri-
cultural implements, etc., is on the market
with 15,000 £1 10 p.c. cum. prefs. Paid
capital is now £23,550 in 3950 8 p.c. cum.
prefs. and 20,000 ords. The new prefs. are
to have first call on net profits as regards
divs., but rank equally with the 8 per cents.,
and both in priority to the ords., for capital.
The new money is wanted mainly to make
and sell patent power take-offs and trans-
mission gears for tractors and headers. It
is claimed that with these, which are pro-
tected, a saving of 40 p.c. or more can be
made in harvesting costs. During the cur-
rent season it is expected to sell 400 and
make a net profit of £7OOO, or £l5OO more
than the div. on the present new issue.
Sales are expected to be worked up to 1000
sets p.a.
The business, which was transferred from
Vie. to N. S. Wales, has been mainly a
family concern. The backing for the prefs.,
when this issue is paid, will be a bit over
£2 per share in net tangibles; but more than
half of it is in plant, which is worth what
it can earn.
There are possibilities in the development
of the co.’s new line; but what profits, if
any, have been won from the business of
recent years are not disclosed, and they
should have been.
The “Wild Cat” said (B. 8/5/’29) that,
though there was price-cutting among whole-
salers at Broken Hill as a result of the
new railway bringing Sydney into the field,
the retailers’ prices were kept steady by an
honorable understanding. The local branch
of the Country Traders’ Association assures
The Bulletin that its members would scorn
to profit by anything of the sort. Tbe asso-
ciation suggests that there was “an innuendo
that traders and unionists are working in
collusion to the • detriment of the mining
industry.” There was no such innuendo.
All the same, this must be said. Under the
ridiculous award under which the mining in-
dustry at Broken Hill is carried on, unionists
are very little concerned about the cost of
living, and therefore don’t care much whether
groceries, etc., are cheap or dear; and such
an arrangement must militate against both
keen buying and keen trading, and to that
extent must be to the detriment of the mining
industry.
Incidentally, the association mentions that
the “admittedly high cost of living at Broken
Hill is contributed to considerably by con-
sumers’ noticeable demands for higher-quality
lines.” This, of course, is no reflection on
the traders, though they are probably more
interested in pushing high-quality lines than
moderate ones; and the “Wild Cat ’ doesn t
know that it is any reflection on the miners
and other unionists either. But it is a
reflection on the award which fixes the costs
in a great industry upon such a rotten basis.
* * * *
The Renison Bell pyritic tin deposits,
situated on the Emu Bay railway line, nine
miles south of Rosebery (Tas.), have baffled
metallurgists for many years. There are a
number, of ore bodies outcropping at the
surface, and all within a mile of the rail-
way station. The district could easily be
served with the power from . the Zeehan-
Williamsford transmission-line, and lias
abundant timber for mining and fuel and
plenty of water. The hold-up is the treat-
ment of the ore. Many small cos. have
tackled the enriched gossan ores at Renison
Bell, but no successful method of dealing
with the low-grade sulphides lias been
evolved. The tin occurs as oxide, distributed
irregularly through the extensive flat dip-
ping ore bodies of pyrite, pyrrliotite and
quartz. The ore oxidises readily, and annu-
ally the surface outcrops are sluiced and
the freed tin oxide recovered. The sulphides
have either replaced or been forced into the
Dundas slates, which in the vicinity of the
ore bodies are much crumpled and faulted.
There is an abundant supply of ore that
can be cheaply mined. Two lines of attack
on the metallurgical side have been suggested.
The pyrites can be readily floated from the
finely-ground ore, and the tailings would be
a tin-enriched product to be dressed up to
70 per cent. As the ore contains .G per
cent, tin metal, and a considerable amount
of the cassiterite would be slimed in fine
grinding, this would not be at all easy.
The flotation treatment is in use on a simi-
lar proposition in Japan, but the ore there
is 1.5 per cent. tin. The alternative to
flotation is to roast the crude _ ore after
coarse crushing and dress the calcine. Little
fuel would be required for roasting, but
unfortunately there is little possibility of
profitably recovering the sulphur.
* * * *
The long expected co. to work the New
Guinea gold interests acquired by the Ellyou
Co., of London, is to be launched shortly
with a capital of “about” £4.500,000, of
which £1,000,000 will be asked for in cash;
and 187$ f.p. £1 shares are expected for
every 100 held in Ellyou. Ellyou’s holders
will also have the right to subscribe at par
for 75 shares in the new co. for every 100
held. In addition a bonus of 37$ f.p.’s
is offered for every 75 paid for.
The new corporation will be one of the big-
gest things that have come this way for some
time, but the job ahead of it promises to
tax all its resources. A serious hurdle will
be the construction of the proposed motor-
traffic road and the railway up to the
plateau, which is as much as 7000 ft. high,
with stiff engineering problems all the wmy;
and as presumably in the interests of economy
this job will be done first, it is likely to be
a while before shareholders get any return.
The co. will control practically the whole of
the Edie Creek plateau and some contigu-
ous areas, including Edie Creek Proprie-
tary’s leases, which are proved producers by
ground-sluicing methods. The real crux of
the position, is whether the suspected “lode”
formations really continue down at good
values. No light has been thrown on this
aspect of the matter by the -work under-
taken to date.
* * * *
In December last a joint meeting of share-
holders in New Guinea Gold and Osmiridium
and New Guinea Goldfields Exploration—
the latter a London-formed co. —decided that
the N. G. G. and O. interests should be
absorbed by N. G. G. Exploration, share-
holders in Osmiridium receiving seven shares
in the new co. for every eight held in the
old. An offer was' made by London interests
connected with the Ellyou Corporation to
buy out the Exploration-Osmiridium inter-
ests on a share basis. This was not accept-
able to Australian shareholders, but it was
agreed that if New Guinea Goldfields Cor-
poration, another organisation with Ellyou
affiliations, was prepared to allot shares in
the proportion of £1 in the purchasing
co. to every two ss. shares held in the
Exploration-Osmiridium combine, the deal
would be clinched. Mr. Dickinson, who came
from London to discuss matters with Aus-
tralian shareholders, left for England with
this message some weeks ago, but no news
has yet been received as to further develop-
ments, though it is expected at any time.
* * * *
New Guinea Developments, which hold
some 20-odd leases on the so-called Day
Dawn Lode on the Edie Creek plateau,
New Guinea, has issued another report on
development work done on the P™ p f^ 1( ' '
Costeens are said to disclose a lode foima
tion 40ft. wide on the Day Dawn Extended
Leases, with makes of manganese and quartz
varyfng from sft. to 10ft. in width Dish
prospects show up to 3oz gold per ton. the
gold being valued at £3 10s. per oz. Pay-
able alluvial gold leads are also reported
No mention is made of any test to find out
whether the lode is going down, an impor-
tant matter which seems to have been over
looked by others interested in this line.
* * * *
At Iron Knob (S.A.), where the B. H.
Prop, gets its iron ore, an extensive electri-
fication scheme, which should considerably
reduce costs, has been recently completed.
The old steam shovels in use at the quar-
ries have been replaced by electric ones
equipped with caterpillar wheels ; also elec-
tric locos, are now used for shunting the
30-ton trucks used in the quarries, lhese
trucks are made into rakes ot tour and aie
tipped by a large electric crane, the ore
passing into a jaw crusher that can handle
10in. material with ease. This crusher is
said to be the largest in Australia. lhe
crushed stone is sent to the secondary crush-
ing plant at Whyalla, on Spencer s Gulf,
for shipment to Newcastle. The compressor
plant at Iron Knob has also been electrified,
the power being transmitted at 33,000 volts
from Whyalla. „
At Middle Back Range, 17 miles south of
Iron Knob, there are additional extensive
deposits of high-grade ore, and a 3ft. bin.
line is now being laid to these from a point
on the Whyalla-Iron Knob line 13 miles
from Whyalla.
* * * *
Westralia’s latest find is near where the
Southern Cross came down. A prospecting
party sent there by a Perth syndicate
claims to have found an extensive mineral
belt containing rich deposits of both lode
and alluvial tin, and a 60 per cent, copper
formation. Traces of gold and tantalite
are also mentioned. An exhibition of speci-
mens caused the syndicate’s £1 shares to go
to a high premium ; whereupon the directors
very properly advised caution until an inde-
pendent expert had seen and reported on the
discoveries.
* * * *
An attempt is to be made to discover deep
alluvial leads around the Boulder Belt —a
project not as fantastic as might appear.
At one time the elevation of the Belt was
much greater than it is now, weathering
having been responsible for the reduction.
It is almost certain, therefore, that much
gold has been precipitated from the old levels
into valleys long since filled. If the sites
of such depressions could be located, the
prospects of finding payable leads by diamond
drilling would be improved. Also, if geolo-
gists • constructed a model of the ancient
Belt, showing the old elevations and valleys,
some useful work would be done.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie is deploring the departure of
Jack Sutherland, who recently retired from
the management of the Golden Horseshoe.
Sutherland was a star student at the Bal-
larat School of Mines, then a bright young
man on the Barrier, and, later, a good
metallurgist on the staff of Lake View Con-
sols. He became manager of the Horseshoe
in the late ’nineties, and, with the exception
of a brief period when Bewick, Moreing had
charge, has been in control ever since. He
was the first*to use filtration on Golden Mile
tailings.
* * * *
London has subscribed liberally to Wiluna
and Lake View and Star, and is expected
to follow with ventures into Mararoa and
Sand Queen. It will more than likely take
a hand in opening up the Wilga coal mea-
sures, and possibly follow with a tilt at the
asbestos and tantalite deposits in the JNor-
West. At present two mi'lions of London
money is in prospect for testing W.A. fields.
* * * *
At the Golden Butterfly, Norseman
(WA), all work has been suspended;
exemption has been granted, and calls and
costly litigation are in prospect The board
intends to erect a treatment plant, though
it says nothing about the grade of ore broken
from recent developmental work There is
a State mill close by the show; why not look
before leaping?
* * * *
Another of the Malay Siamese subsidiaries,
Phin Soon, has come into the limelight. It
is an open-cast show, and has been in con-
stant trouble since it was bought from
Chinese vendors in 1926. In December last
the co. was re-constructed, some ot the
creditors were paid off and the mine
blossomed again as New Phin Soon. On
the new board were A. D. Pedley and
J. K. Mehan, of Sydney. Last week they
were advised that at a statutory meeting
in the F.M.S.. whereat 16,750 shares were
represented, they had been booted out and
another set of directors appointed, lhere
are 175 000 6s. shares in New Phin Soon,
and, it is said, only 21,000 of these are
held in Malaya, the balance being mostly in
Sydney hands. Formerly there were three
directors, one being M. Marshall manager of
Phin Soon, in Malaya. He lias been elechJ
to the new board with three others. A cable
to astonished Sydney shareholders suggests
that the only way to prevent the property
being seized by creditors is to have it worked
on tribute. It was over this that the hrst
split occurred some time ago. Shares have
not been quoted in Sydney recently, the
mine having ceased production some month-,
"go. Sydney shareholders are being called
together to kick.
* * * *
After a lapse of years the North Auck-
land (M.L.) cinnabar (quicksilver) deposits
are to be worked again, this time on a big
scale by a subsidiary of the powerful
Imperial Chemicals group. Directing opera-
tions is R. H. Goodwin, who made thorough
tests of the ground before recommending the
nronosition ' Plant has been ordered, and
production should begin before the end of the
y ear -


High Cost of Coal
Because the production cost is too high, the Northern coal trade
has partly gone and is still going. The following figures ( Government
statistics) show how the proceeds from the sale of coal are allocated
in N.S.W.:-
1921 1927
Salaries and wages - 63.1 per cent. 67.9 per cent.
Material, tools, fuel 16.2 ~ 17.5
Overhead and profit 20.7 ~ 14.6
“Overhead” includes rent, royalty, rates, taxation, insurance, workers’ compensation,
depreciation, interest, waggon hire, rescue-station levies, etc. —the cost of practically
all of which increased between 1921 and 1927.
THE SHARE TAKEN BY LABOR INCREASED
BY NEARLY 5% IN SIX YEARS, WHILE THE
PROPORTION LEFT FOR OVERHEAD AND
PROFIT DECREASED BY 67. IN THE SAME
PERIOD.
The decrease in output on the Northern
Field, owing to loss of trade, between
1924 and 1928 represents the production
of eight collieries turning out 1200 tons
213 days per annum. The bunker trade
alone would keep one such colliery going
183 days per annum.
The Owners will gain nothing from a
lower selling price or from reduced wages.
The public will get the whole of the
direct benefits.
But Public, Owners and Miners alike will
benefit indirectly through the saving of
the industry, the recovery of lost trade and
re-establishment of regular employment.
SO FAR AS THE MINE-WORKERS ARE AFFECTED,
THE OWNERS’ PROPOSALS MEAN
Less Pay per Day
but More Money per Pay
Publication authorised by C. M. McDONALD, Chairman Northern Collieries Association, Sydney.


GEO.E.FORTESQUE 8 SONS
LIMITED.
New Issue of Shares.
The rapid development of this Company in connec-
tion with its Patent Power Take-Off and Patent
Transmission Gear for Tractors and Headers has
called for the introduction of more capital, and
the Directors of the Company have
decided to issue a parcel of 10°/
Cumulative Preference Shares.
The business, which was originally established in
Victoria as far back as 1855, was transferred to
Arncliffe, Sydney, in 1904, and rapidly built up a
reputation in connection with Poison Carts, Fire
Fighters, Water Carts, Windmills, Concrete Mixers,
Steel Wheels and Local Government appliances.
Latterly the Company has concentrated on the
manufacture of the Patent Take-Off and Patent
Transmission Gear, which inventions have proved
most efficient in reducing harvesting costs.
Already just on 500 (five hundred)
sets of the equipments have been
disposed of,
and the popularity which the equipments have
gained (as evidenced by numerous testimonials and
repeat orders) justifies the Directors in believing that
there is a great opportunity for the further expansion
of the Company in connection with the inventions,
which, after careful development during three years,
are now fully standardised.
The Board of Directors consists of:—
VICTOR CLAUDE SAYWELL, ESQ. ALBERT JOHN FORTESCUE, ESQ.
(Say well & Say well, Sydney), Chairman. Managing Director.
WILLIAM BRISSENDEN DOUST, ESQ. WILLIAM GEORGE JUDD, ESQ.
(Sydney Cold Stores, Ltd). (Hurstville Brick Works).
ALFRED GONINAN, ESQ.
(A. Goninan & Co., Ltd., Engineers, Broadmeadow, Newcastle).
Auditor: Solicitors:
JAMES TAYLOR, ESQ., F.C.P.A., MESSRS. SAYWELL & SAYWELL,
Dalton House, Pitt Street, Sydney. Cathcart House, Sydney.
Secretary:
JOHN McHUGH.
REGISTERED OFFICE: ARNCLIFFE, SYDNEY.
The Company has been consistently well managed
under the personal supervision of Mr. Albert John
Fortescue, who has originated and developed many
first-class products.
Further information, with Prospectus, may be obtained from the Secretary
of Geo. E. Fortescue & Sons, Ltd., Arncliffe, Sydney.
WestcIcoC
America
w oen
u
o
<>
i ~i r
V)
10
o
4
5
3
(,5
Sabi/ Ben
%
c ©/v crons' **jrrcjr jso osr
§
ED
EVE
gfe|l£*
IN'*
Put your trust in Westclox
time and a sure alarm are
every day necessities. A trustworthy
alarm clock is needed in every home.
When you select a Westclox, you are
sure of long satisfactory timekeeping service.
Usefulness, attractiveness, known and
lasting value make Westclox famous all
over the world.
Prices range from 8/6 to 28/6.
Built by the makers of Big Ben and other Westclox
WESTERN CLOCK COMPANY, LA SALLE, ILL., U.S.A.
BROWN & DUREAU LTD., Distributors for Australia
MELBOURNE - SYDNEY - PERTH - BRISBANE'
Mayes’ Australian
Builders and
Contractors’
PRICE BOOK
Practically Re-written in every Branch of
Construction, greatly enlarged , illustrated
and alphabetically arranged.
NINTH EDITION
Price 15/- Posted 154
RIGHT UP-TO-DATE. Invaluable for
ARCHITECTS, SHIRE ENGINEERS
AND PROPERTY OWNERS.
ESTIMATES FOR
All kinds of House Building Costs, Fitting and Lighting Wire and other Automatic
Closing Gates, Plough and Scoop Work, Tank and Well Sinking, Excavation, Dam Making,
Septic Tanks, Pumps, Windmills, Hydraulic Rams, Tractors, Pelton Wheels, Oil and Other Engine ,
Wood Stave Pipes, Boring for Water, Tree Rooting and Logging Plants, Felling and Squaiing
Trees and Working of Timber, Pneumatic Tools for all classes of Boring, Drilling and‘
Tools. Different Air Compressors illustrated, with prices. Concrete Mixers, Modern Koadunak g
Plant, Modern Construction Tables for Reinforced Concrete Facing of Buildups (Daencej
Terra-cotta, Sandstone, Ceramic, etc.
All Building Costs can be checked with the aid of
MAYES’ BUILDERS AND CONTRACTORS’ PRICE BOOK.
GETS AWAY FROM THE OLD-FASHIONED
The Book of Australian
Bungalows.
Designed along lines to suit the natural Australian conditions, from the Week-end Cottage,
•with its large, roomy verandah, to the substantial suburban House. , ... ~
The Book of Australian Bungalows contains 90 Up-to-Date Plans and Drawings with esti-
mated cost of construction carefully prepared for each Plan.
The main details are standard throughout, with the idea of having as little waste .pace as
possible; whilst the elevations have been designed along simple lines.
Book of Australian Bungalows.
The Work of two leading Australian Architects.
Price 5/-. 4d. 'Postage.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.,
Bookstall Comer, Castlereagh and Market Streets, Sydney.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic Pisk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etr
They Satisfy
because they are made from 1 00
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys”
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a “GREYS.”
tsss^.
JHE GREYS
SIZEaTWO
SILK CUT VIRGINIA.
DRAP
EYS
H<3> for CIGARETTES for 1/&
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights”
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20.
Build With
WUNDERLICH
Materials
Guard against faulty work
obtain the highest value by in-
sisting on Wunderlich Building
Materials, which include: —
Art Metal Ceilings, Terra Cotta
Roofing Tiles, Asbestos Cement
(DurabestosJ Building Sheets.
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney ’
Branches in all States
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Veronal”: Louise Mack got a laugh at
a war-time Red Cross rally with an im-
promptu bit of pathos. It
was in a South Coast
(N.S.W.) town, and she was
auctioning a sheep from the
stage. Patting the sacred
jumbuck lovingly, she said:
“Come here, darling; you
put me in mind of my
brother Sid. He comes down
tliis way sometimes to defend sheep-stealers.”
* * * *
“Byngo” : When shearing-time came round
on Ivurraburra station, Hardca.sc Jackson
was missing—drowned in the Darling, some-
one said. He’d well earned his name, and
almost everyone in the shed had some dis-
graceful episode in his career to relate. But
Dirty Dan presented the case for the defence.
“ ’E weren’t really ’ard,” he said mournfully,
“an’ ’e was a good mate ter me. One time
I was goin’ to cut me throat, an’ ’e sez, ‘Dan,
would a quid make yer change yer mind?’ an’
’e passes over a greeny. Well, the next time
I gets despondent I tell’s ’Ardcase I’d 'ave
ter do it, an’ ’e looks at me sorrowful. ‘Dan,’
’e sez, ‘I ain’t got a quid for yer this time,
but ’ere’s me best Bengali razor.’ No, ’e
weren’t really ’ard.”
* # & =5
“Harold Hardupp”: The pet cat of the
steamer Sagama River, recently in Sydney,
insisted on having a salt-water bath under
the hose every morning. Although most cats
hate water, there are many authentic cases
of felines that don’t. One such was the
fisherman’s cat at Doll’s Point —it used to
dive into the water for passing fish, and
took the plunge so suddenly that it often
made a haul. One of its privileges was to
be on hand when the fishermen hauled in
EASY TO LOOK AT.
CITY NIECE: “What a beautiful sight!”
COUNTRY UNCLE: “Yairs. Berkshires. Wish I had a few more of ’em.”
their nets, when a few of the small fish were
its perquisite. It dodged the big crabs, but
admitted the smaller ones to its bill of fare.
Curiosity about a toadfish gave it the sur-
prise of its life. Puss cautiously touched the
gasping fish with its paw, and it immediately
swelled after the fashion of its kind. The
startled cat, spitting out its opinion of such
conduct, leaped into the air backwards with
every hair bristling. Then it lit out for
the darkness of the bush, and it was quite
a time before it returned to its fishing.
THE HORNS ARE IN THE OTHER PLACE.
“I wonder what sort o’ cows they got in Heaven?”
“Why, poleys, of course.”
“Bad Australian”: Although the buffalo
has been greatly reduced in numbers in the
more accessible parts of North Australia, it
is still fairly numerous in the
wilder and less frequented parts,
where the work of slaughter
still goes merrily on. A' well-
equipped buffalo-shooter’s outfit
usually has a string of 50 to
100 horses, for riding and trans-
port purposes, but the camp
equipment is light in compari-
son, as all the work of skinning,
packing, tailing the horses, etc.,
is done by the aboriginals who
flock from far and near to take
part in the hunt and feast on
the spoils of the chase. When
a mob is sighted the shooter
(who may be either a white
man or an abo.), mounted on a
horse specially trained for the
work, and armed with a sawn-
off .303 rifle or the old bone-
shattering Martini carbine load-
ed with soft-nosed or dum-
dummed bullets, gallops up
alongside one of the buffaloes,
and, leaning over, discharges his
weapon into the body of the
animal in the region of the
coupling. A properly-directed
shot brings the animal down,
crippled in the hindquarters.
Immediately following the dis-
charge of the hunter’s weapon
his horse, true to its training,
swerves sharply away from liis
victim in order to avoid an im-
mediate onslaught by the animal
if it has not been crippled by
the shot. When an experienced
hunter is charged by an infuri-
ated buffalo he jambs his spurs
into his horse, and keeping just
ahead of the animal turns in the
saddle, and, using his weapon
like a pistol, discharges it point-
blank into the animal’s head.
Then he gallops off after his
next victim, and so the game
goes on. Outside the Territory
it is generally supposed that the
shooting is always done by
white men, but there are num-
bers of abo. boys quite as expert
at the game as the white hunt-
ers. The abos. follow behind,
giving the animals the coup de
grace, as the carcase is required tor skinning.
The tongues are salted and kept, but the re-
mainder of the carcase is the perquisite of
Black Brother.
“Sap”: Bill, who had exhibited his Black
Orpingtons at numerous country shows and
scored several prizes, was confident that they
would carry all before them at the local
tourney, and was greatly mortified when the
judge awarded the first prize to a rival.
Loudly protesting, and declaring the judge
to be incompetent, Bill turned to a meek-
looking stranger standing near Bill’s exhibits,
and asked for his opinion. “Well,” said the
man, “all I can say is that I wouldn’t use
them as feather dusters.” When Bill had ex-
hausted his supply of adjectives lie demanded
to know what the stranger knew about
poultry, anyhow. “Next to nothing,” came
the mild retort; “but I’m the judge.”
* * * *
“Senex”: We had a thoughtful suicide up
here (Atherton, N.Q.) the other day. He
left a letter for the local police stating what
he was about to do, and why; also where
they would find his body, with detailed direc-
tions about collecting the scraps and putting
them into the cavity in the earth that his
death would cause. Then he got 10 plugs
of dynamite, lit a fuse, and sat on it.
Presently a terrific detonation startled neigh-
bors a couple of miles' off, who hurried over
to investigate. There was a hole big enough
to inter a cart-horse; the man had been
lifted through the upper branches of a 60-foot
tree, as proved by pieces of shirt fluttering
aloft, and the body was 90 feet away. Except
for a few scratches and bruises, the corpse
wasn’t damaged.
* * * *
“Pfella”: Very little time is wasted on
my brother’s Murchison (W.A.) sheep-
station making, butter. A nigger turns the
separator and pops the collected cream into
a big square glass jar with a patent-seal top.
He then turns the house windmill out of
action, shins up the toAver and attaches the
jar to the face of the fan wheel with clamps
fastened there by my brother. Down again,
he swings the mill into the wind, and in
a few minutes the butter is ready. This
same process applied to a bottle of drink
wrapped around with a wet bag gives the
coldest tipple you can get outside an ice-
chest.
$ $ *
“Bad Australian”: The sudden and com-
plete disappearance of the native cat from
the Southern tablelands of N.S.W. has never
been satisfactorily accounted for. About 30
years ago I was camped between the head-
waters of the King and Howqua rivers
(Vic.), where almost every hollow log
housed a specimen or two, but on a trip
through that country about four years ago
I looked in vain for signs of the little packets
of ferocity, and I was told that it was years
since one had been killed. The sudden dis-
appearance of the dasyures may have been
due in the settled areas to eating poisoned rab-
bits, but that doesn’t account for their ab-
sence from the vicinity of mv old camp, which
was, and still is, about 20 miles from the
nearest settler. About the time of the dis-
appearance of the dasyures the koalas were
affected by a disease that killed them off
in hundreds, and it is quite possible that
the cats were exterminated in the same way.
(Continued on page 25.)
FOSSICKING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Working down along the creek when water’s
running low,
Drought isn’t to our liking but it’s giving
us a show;
Picking round the boulders and a-poking
round the roots,
Scratching out a bit of dirt like bally
bandicoots;
Fossicking old workings down amongst the
caps and slabs,
Gouging out a living. in little dribs and
drabs.
Working in the water and it’s more than
precious cold,
Bringing on rheumatics for a pennyweight of
gold;
Hard to get a bit of wash when drift is
running loose,
Frost is lying on the flat and ice is in the
sluice:
Craning with a shovel till we’re aching at
the wrist,
Gophering for colors the old miners might
have missed.
Barrowing the bottom dirt and dodging round
the rocks,
With water in our bluchers and pebbles
in our socks,
Balancing the barrow up the narrow
springing planks—
Precious little wonder that all fossickers are
cranks;
Working like a Chinaman to get a bit of
gold;
Hard to scratch a .living when a man is
getting old.
Streaming in die sluice-box as we’re throwing-
out the pug,
Always clinging to the hope of forking out
a slug;
Silver in the riffles and (lie bottom coir
paved,
Gold is fine and flaky and it's none so easy
saved;
Streaming down and panning off and
holding a debate,
Calculating takings with the good old trusty
mate.
Pensions ain’t for such as us —we’re not the
pension kind,
We’re free and independent on the bit of gold
we find;
Scratching out our bit of grub, damper, tea
and beef,
Any day might make a punch or come across
a reef;
We’ve always got a log or two to keep us
warm at nights,
There always is a living in a pair of miners’
rights.
N.S.W.
E. W. O’BRIEN.


o
4*5
/ \A«
&.
c
*
’•v
>
WHAT "FI NGER-TIP CONTROL"
MEANS IN SAFETY
AND CONVENIENCE
s
df
THE new Superior Whippet brings you the important advantage of
“Finger-tip Control.” A single button, located in the centre of
the steering-wheel, controls all functions of starting the engine,
operating the lights and sounding the horn.
“Finger-tip Control” eliminates all troublesome foot-fumbling for a
starting-button on the toeboard, and obviates leaning forward to reach
a light switch on the dash. Aside from its convenience, this funda-
mental improvement is also an important safety factor. You can
at all times keep your eyes on the road, and you
can keep your foot always on the brake when
starting or re-starting on a hill.
Your nearest Willy s-Overland dealer will
gladly arrange a demonstration of the new
Superior Whippet.
he new supe±Co J L
WHIPPET
‘i jyffp’yTj j'Titj'nY;
'mu.vs
yyv.ru.A'^o
'O
nppei
ssss:»;|
ZBiy
*\{ | >).
PE RATION
Overland Sydney, Limited,
173 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Overland South Australia, Limited,
62-70 Franklin Street, Adelaide.
Overland (Vic.) Pty., Limited,
117-21 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
E. G. Eager & Son, Limited,
Breakfast Creek Road, Newstead, Brisbane.
Adams Motors, Limited,
442 Murray Street, Perth.
H. C. Heathorn & Co., Limited,
53-63 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
NEW SUPERIOR WHIPPET FOURS AND SIXES


NOSEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Hadfields
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
The largest and best-equipped Crushing Machinery Works in Australia.
JAW CRUSHERS —DISC CRUSHERS—GYRATORY CRUSHERS.
PORTABLE CRUSHING PLANTS COMPLETE QUARRY PLANTS.
Hadlields’ Manganese Steel Wearing Parts for all makes of Crushers.
Works and
Foundries
Alexandria, Sydney, N.S.W,
Bassendean, Perth. W.A.
Branch ( 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. Vic.
Office 5 T. & G. Building, Brisbane, Q.
\o
Book now
jUNE ju&V
Tele gr a p h ic,
Wireless and
Cable Address:
“ Austraotel,
Sydney."
at
s
The
Australia
Capital Paid-Up £422.100.
THE HOTEL OF THE
. COMMONWEALTH
SYDNEY
“Murkah”: In Mooroopna (Vic.) some
years ago a slate-roofed dwelling was reduced
to matchwood in 30sec. by the owner’s trac-
tion-engine. He had left it in the yard while
lie had dinneix In some way, never ex-
plained, the machine slipped into gear, and
10 secoi f later it entered the house, but-
ting into the chimney. The upper part of
the chimney fell through the roof and
wrecked a front-room. The tractor pounded
over the stove, took the dresser on one wheel,
and smashed across a passage. Evidently
something slewed the steering apparatus, as
the instrument of destruction slightly turned,
and carried ruin into the other three rooms.
It pushed a piano through a wall, ran over it,
and finally emerged on the opposite side to
which it had entered. It bogged in the front
garden, and the scared owner climbed aboard
and calmed it down. The house looked as
if it had kept an appointment with an earth-
quake. In the rebuilding very little of the
old material was usable. The tractor was
practically undamaged.
* H* % %
“Jon E.”: May Day saw the opening of
the duck-shooting season in Maoriland, and
at daybreak the shores of Lake Ellesmere,
TRUE TO LABEL.
WEH SCOTTY : “Ah won’t shut ma mooth. This is a land o’ free speech .”
BIG AUSSIE: “Yeh. If it wasn’t you wouldn’t use so much of it.”
about 40 miles from Christchurch, were
lined with sportsmen eager to fill their
bags. On the same day, almost as if they
had received notice from their landlord, hun-
dreds of ducks shifted their quarters to the
Avon, the city’s river, where, of course, they
are safe. These birds, quite wild on the
lake, become temporarily tame on- the Avon
while the shooting season lasts, so tame in
fact that they will eat out of one’s hand.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Although prohibited from
appearing on registered courses or even ordi-
nary menus, the nightmares of the famous
Jimjam stud, which is bred on the Jamboree
station, about five miles from Ginsling—that
is about 516 sq. m. 5 cub. yards 2ft. and 10
toes from the near st
railhead to Jaggsville—are
famous for their perfor-
mances. One I owned,
bred from Crayfish out of
Pinky, stood 40 hands in
its bare socks, and used
to step over the treetops
in its stride. Going down
the hill it led the field by
2.12 runs and two sets,
but the alligator stymied
the chukka. This upset
the mare, so the whole
thing was started over
again. But all in vain.
I called out the night
watch to clock the time,
and held it to my ear, but
one of the ticks got on my
neck, and that would have
meant more drinks, only
that the gorilla got quar-
relsome. We twisted his
tail around the aerial
post and left it there, and
the race began. They
had told me the Crayfish
mare had done the leis-
ured mile in 1.0070253, or
some figure like that, but
I resolved to beat that
record. We did, passing
the judges’ dais in exactly
Lsec. by the post-ofiice
chimes before we started.
Still on we flew, with the
leading Cockroach for the
prosecution asking for a
nonsuit on the grounds of
ne plus ultra. I’m not
clear how it ended; but
that only goes to prove
my claim that the Jimjam
stud night mares are really remarkable
musicians.
$ * # $
“R.X.8.”: Foxes are clever, but the fire-
gobblers probably take the prize for ingenuity
in ridding themselves of vermin. These
remarkable birds, no larger than a full-grown
emu, visit the camp-fires in thousands when
the shearers are returning from town. With
their plumage of black, white, yellow, red,
grey, indigo and violet the vivid green of
their beaks and their mauve and puce-
striped legs, ending in pretty little scarlet
toe-nails, th#y are an arresting sight. Each
carries an eau-de-nil- colored peggy-bag filled
with religious tracts that are freely given to
the shearers. It is while these good fellows
are absorbed in reading that the birds fly
to the fire, and many a shearer has awakened
in the morning to find that he died of the
cold in the night as a result. Of course
the creatures don’t gobble the fire—that’s a
flight of fantasy. Each bird takes a piece
of ■wood that is burning nicely and flies with
it to the top of Mt. Kosciusko, and when
they are all assembled, the leader grunts in
THROWN—CERTAINLY NOT!
BOSS: “Hullo! Did he throw yer, Jacky?” .
JACKY: “No pfear! Mine tinkit I bin see tchillin’ in road, and hopped off to get ’im.”
the key of G. Then they lay the pieces of
burning wood between their feet, which are
turned backwards, and patiently stand in
columns of four in the bitter cold until the
vermin leave their bodies to cluster around
the tires. It may be weeks before the more
timid vermin will approach the fires, or
months before the aged and sick can get
there, but once they are all there enjoying
the welcome warmth each bird closes the left
eye once if it is a week day and twice on a
Sunday, and, opening the beak so that the
gold and silver stripes on the tongue may
be plainly seen, emits a grim chuckle and
flies away leaving the vermin lamenting.
* * * *
“Maxie”: “Bad Australian” (B. l/5/’29)
says that any swagman eating goanna would
smell so badly that he should be dumped in
the sea; also that he has never known an
abo. to eat it. I know many whites
who do eat it with relish —not swagmen
either, but squatters, jackeroos, miners and
bushmen, and I have often seen a stockman
with a ’go tail in his saddle-pouch—to be
grilled on the coals when he reached the
little grey home at sunset. Abos. from the
s.-w. border to the Gulf, and from Cooktown
to the Glass House Mountains, regard the
tail as a delicacy, and I’ve known them to
feast on the whole carcase, from shoulders
rearwards. But the ’go I speak of is
the yellow and green sand species or lace
lizard, not the black carrion variety (Gould’s
monitor). The latter does smell to Heaven.
* * * *
“Frigid”: An interesting experiment was
tried recently with an ordinary whiting. The
fish was put in a large bowl of salt water,
and every day a small quantity of the water
was removed and an equal volume of fresh
substituted, until eventually the fish lived
and thrived in purely fresh water. The
investigator was so pleased with the success
of this experiment that he tried removing a
very small quantity of the water daily, until
the bowl was empty, and found that the
whiting did very well without water, and
as he was so lively in the empty bowl, he
was put in a cage. Here he lived happily,
hopping from perch to perch ju t like a
bird, until one day some sudden noise startled
him and he fell into his water-trough and
was drowned.
* * * *
“Vulagi”: Island natives have always been
planters of food crons, but it is a curious
fact that propagation in any form from seed
is a thing unknown to them. Yams and
kumaras are grown from cuttings; taro, pine-
apples, bananas and plantains from suckers
or tops, and the breadfruit from root suckers.
The sprouted cocoanut is used and is perhaps
the nearest approach to the use of the seed,
but it is simply left in the husk to shoot,
while sugar-cane is planted from tops or
lengths of the stick. Contact with whites
does not seem to have had any effect. I
have seen cabbages being groivn from the
sprouts of an old cabbage-stump and toma-
toes from cuttings. The Fijians see Indians
raising crops' of rice, maize and dhall, but
have never attempted to imitate them. Gov-
ernor May, in 1926, made an effort to popu-
larise the growth of maize by Fijians, having
in mind the extent to which it is used by
the South African native. Addressing a
Council of Chiefs in Suva, he pointed out to
them that the bulk of their food is of root
growth, untouched by the sun, and theorised
that a people living on such a heavy food
could not be so bright and happy as those
living on a sunkissed grain like maize
or wheat; but Sir Henry was a bit off
his beat and the theory did not appeal.
* * * *
“L’Fou”: “Mundowie” (B. 24/4/’29) is
incorrect in claiming the Rev. James Noble
as the only abo. minister in Australia. The
Rev. David Unapon, Presbyterian, is a full
blooded abo. —and as a scholar and preacher
he quite holds bis own. His school career
is described as brilliant. His surname is
said to be derived from the station where
he was born, and whose owner sent him to
college. Like the Rev. Noble, Mr. Unapon
had the good sense to marry one of Ms
own race.
* * * *
“R.E.”: The heliotrope sunset known to
NQ. people is a sight well worth seeing.
The distant hills assume a decided heliotrope
hue; the sun sinks behind a brilliant bank
of gold, purple, black and white clouds, and
the whole country is a riot of verdant green.
The color of the roads is a dark Chinese
lacquer red. As the sun sinks lower and
lower and the light becomes more diffused,
the effect is continually changing. If there
are more beautiful sunsets in any part of
the world, I would like to see them.
* * * *
“A.E.H.”: During a fairly long stay on
the west coast of the Speck, I snared about
80 native and tiger cats, and only one was
a lady. In the Darling Rangers, Groper-
land, I had a similar experience—out of 20
captured there was but one female. What’s
the explanation? Is it that only the bucks go
on the prowl, or that the creatures are defy-
ing ordinary biological laws?
* - * * *
“Ula” : The Melbourne Zoo has gone into
business. An astute Bourke-street shoe
salesman hired a couple of 15ft. carpet-snakes
from that institution the other day, releas-
ing them among a snake-skin shoe exhibi-
tion, which included stuffed wrigglers and
crocodiles. Before leaving home the snakes
were polished and made pretty with oil; out
they were also given a Mrge feed and slept
so peacefully that they might as well have
been stuffed.
CONVALESCENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
lam drinking from a goblet
Filled with magic to the brim,
And the worries of existence
Somehow seem remote and dim.
Roseate fancies, soul-enthralling,
On my vision gaily loom,
For I’m loafing up at LaWson
Where the bloodwoods are in bloom.
lam plagued with no repentance
For an erstwhile wasted life,
And the wounds no more are aching
I’ve collected in the strife;
I can see a rosy future,
And I fear no threat’ning doom
Now I’m loafing up at Lawson
And the bloodwoods are in bloom.
Through each blue-and-gold garbed daytime,
And each velvet, star-gowned night,
I’m carousing on the vintage
Of the vigneron Delight,
While the fairies sweep all troubles
With a magic fairy broom
(All the fairies live at Lawson
When the .bloodwoods are in bloom).
In a colloquy this morning
With a gay and festive bee
We compared our observations,
And he quite agreed with me
That existence is a picnic
And Life’s stocks are in the boom
If you’re loafing up at Lawson
When the bloodwoods are in bloom.
N.S.W.
HOMFREY BEALE.


Our Service Department
Wants.
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Married man, N.S.W., fully experienced farmer,
can drive car, tractor, wants manage, lease or share
stocked wheat or dairy farm, view later purchase.
292.
Ret. soldier, S.A., nine years’ fruitgrowing, motor-
driver and mechanic, sales experience, used horses
and tractors, handy tools, fair education, wants job
anywhere.—363.
Experienced accountant and book-keeper, Sydney,
44, desires a position city or country. Scotch. —289.
First-class orchestral drummer, Sydney, wants
position anywhere, 16 years leading theatres and
movies. Ex-bandmaster 47th and 49th Batts.
(A.I.F.). Refs—261.
Married couple want position any part Queensland.
Wife splendid cook (bread), laundress; husband
good station-hand, contract fencer. Eight years’
refs.—335. .
Ex-chief steward (35), Vic., capable caterer,
chef, drive car and truck, good address, adaptable,
seeks position. Sober, good refs., go anywhere.—371.
Girl (20), Vic., good appearance, R.L.C. student,
drives any car, grade-I pianist, shorthand writer
and typist, desires position social secretary or
companion.—369. *
Author, N.S.W. (country) wants presentable, edu-
cated young man, able type, do little shorthand
and drive car. Small wage and board and residence.
Exes, when travelling.—Jill.
Elderly lady, Sydney, like correspond with Brr.-
IjKtin readers, either sex, on interesting topics—•
310.
To buy “Realities of War” by Philip Gibbs.—264.
Trader, supplying overseas unis, and museums
with specimens, wants energetic young naturalist as
partner ( £300) in collecting station on Barrier
Reef (Q.)—282.
To buy, novels by Sabatini, except “Bellarion”
and “Scaramouche.” —337.
Whereabouts of Frank Walters (27), Englishman,
last heard of at Minyip (Vic.).—330.
Lady, Vic., would like correspond with readers in
lonely places.—171.
Young man (19), Sydney, like correspond with
young men about same age.;—258.
To correspond with youth residing in Pacific
Islands who collects postage stamps.—348.
Young planter and trader in Pacific Islands'would
like correspond with lady readers. Interested in
sports, music, literature and photography.—351.
Words of verse beginning “It’s the set of the sail.”
—3 56.
Words of “A Boundary Rider Came to Town.”—
377.
To buy copy “Book of the Dead,” in English.—
359.
Owners of 70ft. seagoing yacht, Sydney, require
additional working partner for profitable venture off
Queensland coast. £250 capital required for share
in prelim, exes, and equipment.—-381.
Information Sought.
We are interested in a patent and have
secured patent rights in the Commonwealth,
and now want to secure ourselves in England
and America. (1) What protection can we
get? (2) Cost? (3) How are we to proceed?
229.
If Australian patent has issued you may
be too late to apply in U.S.A. or obtain a
valid patent in Britain. In U.S.A. applica-
tion must be bled within 12 months of first
application elsewhere. A copy of your Aus-
tralian specification (when accepted) is for-
warded by the Patent Office here to the
library of the Patent Office in England, and
constitutes publication of the invention there.
The novelty of the invention is thus destroyed
in England, and a valid patent could not be
obtained after that publication has occurred
unless the British application is lodged with-
in 12 months of the date of filing the Aus-
tralian application. Better consult a patent
attorney, who will give you the costs in each
country and explain the procedure. You
must appoint a registered agent in each
country to handle your application for
patent. Approximate cost: Britain, £22;
U.S.A., £30.
(1) Where in Melbourne can instruction
be secured by persons wishing to sit for the
Vic. meat-inspector's certificate? Cost and
length of course and recommended text-book?
(2) What prospects arc there for those who
gain the certificate? —36.
(1) Dr. John Johnston conducts a class
for students anxious to obtain the meat-
inspector’s certificate. Lectures delivered
'weekly from March to October at Pharmacy
College, 360 Swanston-street, Wednesday
evenings, and practical demonstrations are
given at the city abattoirs on Saturday after-
noons. The examination is held at the end
of the term. Fee for full course, £5 5s. Pre-
scribed textbook is the “Australian Hand-
book of Meat Inspection” (Johnston), 15s.
(2) It is a rare thing to find a qualified
meat inspector out of employment.
T bought a house for £550 and paid £100
deposit. The balance is being paid £5 8s. Ad.
per calendar month, with interest at 74 per
cent., calculated yearly. I have paid 12 in-
stalments. (1) What interest do I owe? (2)
What will be payable each year until the
debt is paid? —279.
As we understand it, you owe £450, Avhich
you are paying off at 25s. a week, combined
capital and interest at 74 p.c., with yearly
“rests." You have paid one year’s instal-
ments, £65, of which £33 15s. was interest
and £32 5s. capital. You will’, if you keep
up instalments, wipe off the rest of the debt
in 9 years 10 months, during which period
you will repay £417 15s. capital and pay
£241 8s. 4d. interest. Unless you have a
very unusual sort of agreement your instal-
ments will remain constant throughout the
term.
How would I go about nominating girl or
boy (14) as an assisted migrant to N. S.
Wales? Cost? —l94.
British migrants may be nominated for
assisted passages at the Migration Branch,
N.S.W. Dept, of Labor, George and Argyle
streets, Sydney. Cost of a passage for girl
or boy of 14 would be £5 10s. A gratuity
of not less than BOs. must be deposited for
payment to some person selected by the Lon-
don office to look after the welfare of the
child during the voyage. Consent of the
parents must, of course, be secured.
Were any 16in. guns mounted on any
British warship prior to 1914? —185.
Yes; 16.25 in. guns were mounted in the
Royal Oak and others of her class in 1902
and earlier; then the modern 12in. gun was
introduced and remained the largest till the
Queen-Dlizabeth class were commissioned
during the war. They and the new Royal-
Oak class of battleship and the Renown and
Repulse all had 15in. guns.
(1) Should an apprentice in Sydney re-
ceive a signed copy of his indentures? (2)
Ilis employer objects to him attending trade
classes. Is that, right? —loo.
(1) The practice is for employer and
employee to each have a signed copy. There
is, however, no provision in the N.S.W.
Factories and Shops Acts or Regulations
which compels it. (2) In absence of par-
ticulars as to class of trade, can’t say.
Brief outline of the W.A.. goldfields water-
supply scheme? —807.
Authorised by an Act of 1890, it provided
for an expenditure of £2,500,000. Work was
begun in 1898 under the supervision of C.
Y. O’Connor, and water was delivered in
Kalgoorlie in Jan., 1903. The water is stored
in the Mundaring reservoir (4650 mill,
gals.), on the Helena River in the Darling
Ranges, 18 miles from Perth ; thence it is
pumped through a steel main of the locking-
bar type (30in. internal dia.) by a series of
eight pumping-stations. The last station de-
livers‘it into a main service reservoir of 12
mill. gals, capacity at Bulla Bulling, 1290 ft.
above the lowest off-take from the Helena
reservoir. Total length is 3074 miles. The
water is distributed from service reservoirs,
and considerable agricultural country is sup-
plied by , branch pipes. Length of mains on
.Tune 30, 1927, 1483 miles; capital cost of
worts, £3,656,147.
Farmers work out the areas of four-sided
pieces of land by adding the length of two
opposite sides and dividing by two: adding
the length of the other two opposite sides
together and dividing by two; finally multi
plying the'two products together. Is that
right? —23l.
No. A piece of land with acute angles
may be not half as big as a rectangle with
sides the same length. Correct computation
involves ability to calculate with sines and
cosines—which is a bit complicated.
(1) Any good rabbiting country in N.S.W.
at present? (2 ) Is round Bourke (N.S.W.)
any good? (3)' Where can I get informa-
tion as to prices for skins, etc.? —-190
(1) Oberon, Bathurst, Sofala and sur-
rounding districts. (2) No. (3) J. S: Sands,
13-15 Smail-street, Sydney.
(1) Book on gem cutting and polishing?
(2) Is there any sapphire field in Queens-
land besides Anakie? (3) A book on glass-
bead and dolVs-eye making, if there is one? —
162.
(1) “The Gem-Cutter’s Craft,’’ Leopold
Claremont; “Precious Stones,” W. Good-
child ; “Gems and Gem Materials,” Keans
and Holden. (2) Only odd specimens have
been discovered elsewhere. (3) Research
Dept., Public Library of N.S.W., will sup-
ply you with a list of printed references to
the subject.
(1) Has opal been found on the N.S.W.
North Coast? (2) What kinds?- —255.
(1) Yes; in the Tintenbar district. (2)
Two principal kinds, the transparent, which
resembles the Mexican, and a variety of
black opal; also a little harlequin opal, in
which small angular and variously-tinted
patches of color are distributed through the
stone.
(1) Chief products of British North Bor-
neo? (2) Climatic conditions? (3) Nature
of country? (4) Living conditions and costs?
—274.
(1) Chief products are timber, sago, rice,
cocoanuts, gums, coffee, various fruits, nut-
megs, cinnamon, pepper, gambier, gutta-
percha, rubber, camphor, rattans, tapioca,
sweet potatoes and tobacco. Coal, gold, iron
and mineral oil have been found. (2) Tropi-
cal, hot, damp and' enervating. Rainfall is
steady and usually excessive. Shade tem-
per a Cure at Santakan ordinarily ranges from
72 deg. to 94 deg. Fahr. (3) Most of it
is exceedingly hilly, much of it mountainous.
(4) No comparisons can be made, because
of the difference in the manner of living.
An Australian who lived there says he
thought he was saving money, but it all
went in furloughs.
(1) Places of birth of members of the
A.I.F. who embarked for overseas service.
(2) Percentage of Australian-born? —149.
(1) N.S.W., 88,250; Vic., 92,553; Q’land,
25,253; S.A., 27,761; Tas., 13.104; W.A.,
8042 ; N.Z., 4214 ; United Kingdom, 64,221;
other British countries, 2246; foreign coun-
tries, 3137. (2) 77.75 per cent.
(1) Can book-keeping and accountancy be
learnt by correspondence? (2) Opportunities
in those professions? (3) Salaries? (4)
Would you advise an inexperienced person
to embark upon such a course? —loß.
(1) Yes, if you are of average intelli-
gence and are prepared to concentrate. (2)
For the right men, very good. (3) Depends
upon age and ability. Anything from £5
a week to £IOOO a year. (4) Depends again
upon age and personal qualities. Anyway, a
knowledge of accountancy is no load to carry
and the profession is one of the best paid.
All the large correspondence courses adver-
tised are reputable.
(1) What would he the result of continual
overdoses of iodine, and what should he used
to counteract any ill-effects? (2) For - what
complaints is iodine used, and how does it
work? —273. . _
(1) Too much iodine produces lodism. It
includes a frontal headache, running at the
nose, sore throat, increased secretion ot
saliva, skin eruptions. The symptoms are
checked by large doses of sodium bicarbonate.
(2) lodine is given chiefly in thyroid disease
and for high blood-pressure. It is also used
in syphilis. Its method of action is still
uncertain. . .
(1) How to apply piaster to an interior
brick wall? (2) Mixture for roughcasting
and how to apply? —lSO.
(1) Hack surface free of loose plaster,
and well wet the surface. Use, first, if area
is large, lime mortar (one part slaked stone
lime passed through a fine sieve and two
parts clean sand). Finish off with equal
parts of slaked lime and plaster of Paris.
If areas are small lime and plaster of I aris
only should be applied. (2) In roughcasting
use 5 parts fine ashes or coke, 2 parts sand
and 1 part cement. The roughcasting is
applied by throwing it on to the surface,
which should be well wetted beforehand.
List of trees to plant on black soil at
Coonamblc ( N.S.W.) for shade and break-
wind?—997B.
White cedar, pepper, sugar-gum, wattle
( Acacia deewrens), evergreen oak, camphor,
kurrajong—procurable at about 18s. per doz.
(1) What’s silica worth in Sydney? (2)
Name and address of person reported to have
discovered rich deposit of sand silica at
Bargo, near Pieton (N.S.W.) , recently? (3)
Names of firms in Sydney who might be
interested in silica deposit in N. Q’landf
—242.
(1) From ss. to 15s. per ton, according
to physical character and analysis. (2)
Norman Bennett, Bargo, N.S.W . (3) Silica
is too low in price and too plentifully distri-
buted in every State to stand the cost of
transportation.
Recipe for bleaching walnuts? —155.
To bleach walnuts in the shell, drop
into warm salted water for a. few minutes,
spread thinly on trays, and dry in hot sun-
shine. To blanch the kernels, prise open the
shells with a blunt instrument or tap them
on stone with a hammer, remove the kernels
whole or in even halves, _ place them in a
basin and cover with boiling water. Let
stand 15min., lift out to drain on a clean
tea-towel, and rub off skins or draw them off
with a fork.
(1) (Jure for chronic mattery eyes in a
spaniel dog? (2) What restrictions are
there on bringing dogs in from Ceylon? (3)
Cost of quarantine? —6s.
(1) May be due to many different causes.
Really a case for veterinary examination, but
Silvol ointment applied once daily often helps.
(2) Dogs are not allowed into Australia from
Ceylon, but a dog may be taken to Britain
from Ceylon, pass a certain period of quar-
antine there, and then again go into quaran-
tine on arrival in Australia. (3) £1 Is.
inspection, £3 Is. quarantine exes., plus
transit and incidentals to and from ship
to quarantine grounds.
The best way and cost of getting from
Broken Hill to Mt. Isa? Alternative routes
and costs ?- —188.
Through tickets are not issued from
Broken Hill to Q’land stations. From
Broken Hill to Wallangarra (via Parke 3,
Narromine, Dubbo, Merrygoen, Binnaway,
and Werris Creek), Ist single, £6 12s. 5d.;
2nd single, £4 Bs. 4d. From Wallangarra
to Duchess (nearest railway station), Ist,
£9 11s. Bd.; 2nd, £5 6s. lOd. Total, Ist,
£l6 4s. Id.; 2nd, £9 15s. 2d. It is not anti-
cipated that the line from 'Duchess to Isa
will be opened for public traffic before end
of May. Passengers are, however, conveyed
between by ballast train at their own risk;
fare, 7s. Bd. The journey could be done by
train to Pt. Adelaide, thence steamer to
Townsville thence rail. The boat fare from
Pt. Adelaide to Townsville is: first £l9 2s 6d.
and second £ll ss.
(1) Are recruits b'eing sought for New
Guinea police force, and how does one join?
(2) What salary does a warrant-officer re-
ceive and how often do rises occur? —9769.
(1) No present vacancies. Vacancies as
they occur are advertised. Application is
then made to the Prime Minister’s Dept.,
Canberra. (2) Warrant-officer (first class),
£4OO to £474 p.a.; do. (second), £336 to
£4OS p.a. Appointments are made at the
minimum of the class, and advancement is
made by four annual increments of £lB in
the latter case, and by one increment of £2O
and three increments of £lB in the first
class. W.O.’s also get a uniform allowance
of £lB p.a.
(1) Hoio can I learn to become a. marine
diver in Sydney? (2) Necessary qualifica-
tions? (3) Prospects. (4) Age to begin to
learn? (5) Is there a marine-divers’ union
or society in Sydney? (6) Where could fur-
ther information be obtained? —260.
(1) There is no regular course. Get in
touch with a contractor engaged on under-
water work, offering services as assistant or
tender. Thus pick up knowledge about dress-
ing and undressing, the construction of the
pump and the use of the signal or life-line.
After that, for a gratuity or otherwise, you
may be able to secure an opportunity to get
under water. You will then discover whether
you are suited for the work—some men
never make divers no matter how hard they
try. It takes years, in any case, to become
efficient. (2) Apart from actual diving ex-
perience, a diver should be a combination
of shipwright, boilermaker, carpenter and
rigger, with some knowledge of masonry,
pneumatic tool-work and oxy-acetylene cut-
ting added. (3) The supply exceeds the
demand; during the war the British Admi-
ralty trained a considerable number of divers,
and contractors have no difficulty in getting
competent men. (4) Between 20 and 25.
(5) No. (6) Albert and Lambert, 13a Q. V.
Buildings. George-street, Sydney.
(1) How old is the orchard-tax in M.L.?
(2) Still in operation? (3) Minimum area
taxed? (4) Amount of tax? (5) Are “back-
yard orchards ” taxed? (6) Does the
nrchardist get a rebate? —290.
(1) Since 1916. (2) Yes. (3) The basis
is not area but- the number of trees; 120 is
the minimum. (4) Is. per acre with a mini-
mum of ss. (5) No. (6) No. The money
goes to the Fruitgrowers’ Federation to pro-
mote the general interests of the industry.
(1) Any land available within 15 miles
of Sydney suitable for poultry farming? (2)
Approx, price? (3) A good textbook on
poultry-farming in. N.S.W.? (4) Are eggs
exported? (5) Is there any market for cut
flowers in Sydney? —lsl.
(1) Yes. (2) From £SO to £l5O per acre.
Suitable land can be obtained from £2O per
acre outside the city water-supply area. (3)
“Poultry-Farming in N.5.W..” by James
Il'adlington, Govt. Printer. Sydney (4s. 3d.
post free). (4) Yes, mainly to U.K.;
nearly 30,000 cases were shipped in 1928.
(5) There is a good market in Sydney for
high-class cut flowers.
Information Supplied.
17(5a.—There are two formulas for bluing
gun-barrels. (1) Dissolve two parts of crys-
tallised chloride of gallic acid in four or five
parts of water; apply with a small sponge,
and let dry in the air. Repeat this two or three
times, then wash with water and dry. Rub
with boiled linseed oil to deepen the shade.
Repeat until satisfied with result. (2) Heat
evenly in a muffle until the desired blue color
is raised, the barrel being first made clean
and bright with emery cloth, leaving no
marks or grease or dirt upon the metal when
the bluing takes place, then allow to cool
in the air. But it requires considerable
experience to obtain an even, clear blue.—
“Gunsmith.”
Brief Answers.
G.J.A.: (1) No, except that there is a
steady movement out of such shares into more gilt-
edged ones because of industrial unrest. (2) The
Bulletin’s “Wild Cat” department divides invest-
ments into 10 classes. This one is in the fourth.
(3) It’s not dear... .M.A.H.: (1) No. (2) Yes....
F.C.: (1) Try Angus and Robertson, or Dymock’s
—both Sydney. (2) Postage on books from England
is Id. per 2oz. (3) Such books are not subject
to duty... .A.D.8.: Imports of red oxide of iron
are not recorded separately, but are included under
the heading “Dry
Pamphlet on “Mushroom Culture” can be got
gratis from Department of Agriculture, Sydney....
J.J.K.: The assoc, is entitled to charge fees for the
performance at public entertainments of any musical
works of which it controls the performing r-ights.
The convenor would be liable in the case mentioned.
No liability is attached to free performances and
where all services are gratuitous. .. .F.E.F.: “Station
Book-keeping,” Wm. Brooks and Cos., Sydney, 21s.
This and others can be borrowed from the Country
Lending Section, Public Library of N.S.W., Sydney.
.. ..S.C.D.: Write Lands and Surveys Department,
Cathedral-avenue, Perth... .N.A.J.: See “Wild Cat”
Column; and for further information ask Cooper
and Oertel, Hunter-street, Sydney... .T.W.: Com-
municate with Inspector of Stock at Wagga (N.S.W.).
E.V.S.: (1) Chamber of Manufactures of
N.S.W., 26 O’Connell-street, Sydney, will help you.
(2) Rapid Electric.and General Heaters, Ltd., 16
Phillip-street, Sydney E.M.M.: (1) Review of
Reviews, English monthly (Is.), founded by W. T.
Stead. (2) Gordon and Gotoh. . . ..7.T.: Abbott’s
published books are “Tommy Cornstalk,” “Outlander
in England,” “Letters from Queer Street,” “South
Seas,” “Plain and Veldt,” “Sign of Serpent,”
“Story of William Dampier,” “Sally,” “Gover-
nor’s Man,” “Castle Vane," “Ensign Calder,”
“Sydney Cove” and “Dog-nose”... .W.R.G.: The
child of one’s first cousin is properly “first cousin
once removed,” but is more often called “second
cousin” N.A.W.: Apply soft soap sparingly with
a flannel, and polish well with a silk c10th....
A.T.W.: Very good linoleum varnishes and glosses
may be got from most hardware shops. If you must
try home-made varnish, prepare it by dissolving white
shellac in meth. spirits to the consistency of a thin
paste... .IbV.E.: Retailed in Sydney at Is. per copy.
.. . .P.V.P.: The Waverleys and “Pilgrim’s Progress”
have no special value... .11. C.M.IC.: Too vague....
W.0.C.: Get in touch with Alfred Lawrence and
Cos., Ltd., 162 Clarence-street; F. A. ITenriques,
Ltd., 208 Clarence-street; and Jones, Steains and
Waller, Ltd., 81 Clarence-street —all Sydney....
J.C.11.: Diagnosis impossible without examination;
communicate with District Inspector of Stock....
N.N.P.: Get Zora Cross’s “Introduction to the
Study of Australian Literature” and Nettie Palmer’s
“Modern Aus. Literature”.. . .N.G.P.S.: It is a No.
8 L. C. Smith (lOin.) ; agents, Macdougalls, Ltd.,
7 Martin-place, Sydney... .R.8.W.: Were two, but
both are now out of business. .. .W.R.W.8.: Too
vague. Tell us more and we may be able to find it.
. ...L.W.: See Service Page (B. I’J/4/’29) ....
P.G.: Primarily macabre means pertaining to the
dance of death. Secondarily, anything gruesome.
Pronounce ma-kah-br E.H.C.: Yes, an irregular
stone dropped from a great height would be affected
in its downward direction by the distribution of
the weight... .A.ILM.: Mrs. A. Kelly, Pitt-street,
Springwood (N.S.W.) A.S.: The giant bamboo
will grow in a fairly cold place so long as it is
within the coastal belt. Do not think you can get
roots in this country, but any seedsman will order
seed —ask for Bambusa arundinacea. . . .H.L.D.:
Zinnias are not generally grown from cuttings,
though it may be possible to do it... . M.R.: Know
of no cure for appendicitis other than an operation.
If you cannot affprd the medical fees, ask your
doctor to give you a note to the nearest public
hospital.... A;W.: (1) See reply to No. 190 this
issue. (2) Districts mentioned are settled, and trans-
port is convenient S.R.P.: These caterpillars do
not materially damage the myall-trees. Their life
cycles are not continuous... .A. 1.: (1) Specimen
share-farming agreements are in the pamphlet on
“Share Farming” issued gratis by N.S.W. Dept, of
Agriculture. (2) Same dept, will supply literature
on passion-fruit... .11.G.8.: Commonwealth Artificial
Limb Factory, 180 Chalmers-street ; Denyer Bros.,
267 George-street; Guyatt and Cos., 257 a George-
street—all Sydney... .T.J.M.: (1) Government
Printer, Sydney (4s. 3d. post free). (2) G. N.
Mann, Pennant Hills-road, Dundas (N.S.W.)
H.A.L.: (1) A duty stamp is required. (2) S.A.
schoolteachers are not exempt from payment of
stamp duty on receipt for salaries.... P. J.W.: Your
indigestion and constipation are quite in keeping
with appendix trouble. An X-ray would be worth
while—especially with an eye to the gall-bladder
Ask your family doctor to suggest a specialist....
W.P.D.: Don’t know of any ; why not canvass them
yourself? Addresses can be found at- the Brisbane
Public Library P.M.L.: There are six clothes-
peg manufacturers in Australia. No figures available
as to annual output... .R.L.G.: (1) Prime Minister’s
Department, Canberra, F.C.T. See also recent issues
of the “Commonwealth Year Book.” (2) New
Guinea Trade Agency, 114 a Pitt-street, Sydney, may
help.... (Many others mailed.)


BLACK & WHITE
■ "r-
-am
-
.
11
s*
■
;
tffti
I
.•■■■
is
••
m
w
■? 7
H
’
SCOTCH WHISKY
BOTTLED UNDER SUPERVISION OF THE COMMONWEALTH CUSTOMS.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., 1 to 5 GROSVENOR STREET, SYDNEY.


PEAPES
clothe men AND their sons
Men prefer to buy at PEAPES
because it is a House which
concentrates solely on the
needs of men and their sons—
because there the varied and
exclusive goods permit a
choi'ce in keeping with one’s
personal preference, and
because at PEAPES prices are
always DEFINITELY low.
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN MERCANTILE
LAND AND finance company, limited.
SYDNEY. Also at WAOOA & HENTY, LONDON, MET,ROUTINE. BRTSRANE. TOWNSVILLE.
Auction Sales f WOOL, FAT STOCK. GRAIN. SHEEPSKINS,
Throughout the Year I HIDES, TALLOW, FURRED SKINS, etc.
Cash Advances on Pastoral Properties and Stock , Wool, Grain and Produce.
Offices: 4 Blisrh Street. Sydney. JAMES KTDP. General Manager for Australia.
W&W26.
mm
London Office:
“Gresham House,”
Old Broad Street, E.C.2.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various Grades.
Zinc Producers’ Association CK;
Contractors with the Board of Trade.
COLLINS HOUSE, 360 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
The
Clip
m iikj
s
«*r,
may be small or large in size, attractive or otherwise
,n quality and condition. That’s not the point. Every
grade of wool and every bale or even bag of it has
its correct market value. And if this action is taken
that full value will be secured.
Send the Wool to
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
Selling Brokers, LTD.
SYDNEY or BRISBANE,
Who secure growers highest possible figures for every
bale or bag they cell.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
PRIZES FOR FARM HINTS.
Thousands of men fail on the land be-
cause they don’t know how to succeed;
many thousands more succeed less than
they should because they lack proper
guidance.
“The Bulletin” wants to encourage
farmers and scientists who know to help
those who don’t know.
With that object it offers two prizes of
£2O and £lO for the most useful contri-
butions to the “Land” pages during the
six months ending June 30 next.
All contributions submitted, whether
published or not, will be considered in
awarding points, and the prizes will go
to the winners of most points.
Points will be awarded for interest and
practical usefulness.
The prizes are additional to the usual
payment for published contributions.
♦
THE CHEMISTRY OF WHEAT.
“Yeoman”: About 95 per cent, of the
dry matter of a crop is derived from the
atmosphere. The other 5 per cent, is ex-
tracted from the soil. The dry matter of a
crop is that which is left when all moisture
has been expelled by heat. If the dry mat-
ter be burned about 97 per cent, will be
consumed or dissipated in the form of gas.
This represents the carbon extracted from
the atmosphere and the nitrogen taken from
the soil. The 3 per cent, of ash that remains
represents the whole of the mineral plant
food absorbed from the soil.
The following table shows the composition
of a 25-bushel wheat crop and the demands
which it makes upon one acre of soil for its
sustenance: —
Grain, Straw, Total,
lb. lb. lb.
Natural weight .. .. 1440 2400 3840
Dry matter .. .. 1260 2100 3360
Constituents taken from soil—
Nitric acid . . .. 101.0 43.0 144.0
Phosphoric acid .. .. 12.0 4.8 16.8
Potash 7.2 16.8 24.0
Magnesia.. .. .. 3.6 2.4 6.0
Lime .. .. .. 0.7 6.5 7.2
Iron oxide .. .. 0.4 0.8 1.2
Sulphuric acid . . . . 0.1 3.4 3.5
Silica, soda, chlorine and a trace of man-
ganese are also present in the ash of a
plant, but they are not considered so essen-
tial as the seven constituents in the table.
It will be noticed that a 25-bushel crop takes
out 16.81 b. of phosphoric acid per acre,
whereas 1001 b. of first-grade super, supplies
211 b. of phosphoric acid. As two-thirds of
the phosphoric-acid requirements of a crop are
supplied by that which is available in the
soil, it is obvious that 501 b. of super, per
acre is sufficient to supply the deficient por-
tion. And by reason of that fact it follows
that the limitation of a crop, where moisture
is adequate and at least 501 b. of super, is
applied, is due to a deficiency of one or more
of the other soil constituents. The soil con-
stituent which is scarcest, relatively to the
crop’s requirement, is the limiting factor in
the yield. Any one of about ten essential
constituents may be the limiting factor.
It follows that the ideal fertiliser must con-
tain sufficient of all —not one or two —of the
required ingredients.
BARLEY AS A ROTATIONAL CROP.
“Will Seer”: In the better-class wheat-and-
wool districts, with a rainfall of. about 20
inches, barley (Cape or English) is a grain
crop which has a threefold effect when used
in the rotation. It puts another egg in the
basket, and favored with a good season
compares more than favorably with oats.
The soil receives the benefit of the rotation
influence. Crops have their likes and dislikes,
and soils used to other cereals will benefit
from a crop of barley, and the barley derives
a benefit likewise. Barley is superior to
wheat or oats as green feed for sheep, and
this superiority again manifests itself in the
straw or stubble stage.
At the end of last harvest, I had an
object lesson in this connection. On a farm
in the Goulburn Valley (Vic.) three pad-
docks adjoining had been sown to wheat,
oats and barley respectively. The gates
were thrown open, and a flock of 170
wethers were beaded for the gate leading
to the wheat stubble or straw. The sheep
went through the wheat and oat-straw and
settled in the paddock from which the barley
had been harvested, and they stayed there
until the paddock was pretty well bare, wnemi-
cal analysis does not disclose any appreciable
difference between wheat, oat or barley-straw,
but American investigators say the latter
is more digestible. That is probably due to
the cystine content of barley (straw or green
crop), but whatever the cause the fact
remains.
HUMUS AND FERTILITY.
“Noah Fraid”: “Reminder” (B. l/5/’29)
says “The .value of humus in wheat-lands
cannot be over estimated,” and quotes Roth-
amsted (Eng.) results in proof. That is
all right, but wheat-growing at Rothamsted
is totally different from wheat-growing in Aus-
tralia. "Reminder” says “the rotation of fal-
low, wheat, peas, wheat lias given very
satisfactory results,” but he do s not say
where. I venture to say it could not be
practised successfully in the majority of our
wheat-growing areas.
The statement that “much valuable humus
is destroyed by burning-off wheat stubble”
is a shot which is often fired, but with the
advent of the harvester the term “stubble”
is not correct —it should be “straw”—and as
straw requires a lot of moisture to decompose
it, and moisture is not too plentiful in our
wheat-growing areas, it follow’s that in the
subsequent tillage operations, the straw
becomes a nuisance and time-waster; so, after
feeding-off, we burn the straw, and with it
the insects and the fungus diseases, and,
incidentally, obtain advantages from the
baking the soil receives.
I would be the first to clap if “Reminder”
had confined his remarks to the hay-growing
districts.
HARROWING WHEAT.
“Yeoman”; It is a good practice to at
once follow the combine or drill with the
harrows, as the additional working fines
and consolidates the soil around the seed.
The roots of the young cereal can make
vigorous growth only in a compact seed bed.
A loose, lumpy, seed bed with large air spaces
will hamper and restrict root growth and
appreciably limit the yield. More beneficial
still, except in sandy or light loamy soils,
is the harrowing of the crop about six weeks
after the wheat is up. Most farmers
are afraid that the harrows will pull
up too much wheat. They will not do
that. Any thinning out effected will bene-
fit the remaining plants, which will grow
stronger and stool better. It is not an
uncommon experience for such a harrowing
to increase the yield by two to three bushels
per acre.
SOIL COLOR AND PLANT GROWTH.
“Curlew”: The power of soils to absorb
the sun’s rays depends very much on their
color. Black soils absorb most, then come
red and yellow. White or light-colored soils
reflect so much of the radiant heat that they
are usually between two and three degrees
colder than a black soil. Even during the
night the difference is but slightly reduced.
Places having too short a summer to ripen
melons and similar tender plants have done
so when the soil has had a covering of coal
dust. Soot is particularly useful. It warms
the soil, hastening growth, and its nitrogen
contents have a high manurial value.
Powdered charcoal has also been used. Sown
in the drill with turnips, it has produced
rapid germination. Charcoal has also a
sweetening influence on soils.
WIMMERA WHEAT.
“Will Seer” : The statement of a Victorian
miller to the effect that Wimmera wheats
are deteriorating in their gluten content may
be taken with a grain of salt. The per-
centage of gluten will vary with the wheat.
Soft wheats, like Farrer’s Federation, have
a much lower content of gluten than the
harder type of wheat, of which Minister is
an example. The gluten content of the
wheat from any given district will naturally
depend upon the variety grown, the soil,
the rate of manuring, the season, etc.
The hard, vitreous, high-strength wheats
do not yield well in Vic., and as the price
per bushel is not governed by the gluten per-
centage, the man on the land will grow the
wheats which give the greatest profit per
acre. The reason why Australian wheat is
so greatly sought after abroad is that, being
soft and of low strength, it lends itself
admirably to blending with the hard, high
strength wheats of the East and the United
States If the Australian trade requncs
more gluten (higher strength) in our wheat,
let it cater for it by offering a higher puce
per bushel for hard, high-strength varieties
or, better still, buy on a gluten content
standard.
EFFECT OF SOIL ON LUCERNE.
“Ruffy”: The usual view taken by farmers
is that fodder plants grown upon different
soils vary chiefly in the weignt ot produce
per acre. Little account is taken ot varia-
tions in the constituents of the plants, let
it is evident that if there be a deficiency ot
any particular plant food in the soil there
must of necessity be a shortage, of that in
the resultant plants. That this is so is
shown clearly in the following analyses ot
lucerne: —
Chalky Clayey
Granite with with Very
Soil. Flints. Chalk. Chalky,
p.c. p.c. pc. p.e.
Ferric oxide 76 1.05 -29 .00
Magnesia carbonate .. 9.89 7.10 10-9.0 j
Calcium sulphate .. 4.50 3.04 7.51 9.80
Calcium phosphate .. 14.94 8.11 10-90 19-71
Calcium carbonate .. 13.42 48.10 19.68 90.19
Potassium carbonate . . 48.42 29.19 20.60 -6.09
Potassium and sodium
chlorides .. .. 6.67 2.90 .68 6.98
The calcium contents, along with the jiot-
ash and ox da of iron, are the most im-
portant, and it will be seen how greatly they
vary on different soils. Granite soils are
particularly rich in potash, oxide of iron and
magnesia, contain a fair amount of lime, but
are deficient in phosphoric acid. On the
other hand chalky soils are particularly well
supplied wutli lime and iron oxide, have a
fair amount of potash and magnesia, but are
even poorer in phosphoric acid than granite
soils. Hence phosphate of lime is particu-
larly needful, and means better balancing of
the soil and an improvement of the quality
of the fodder grown, with a corresponding
improvement in the health and thriftiness of
stock.
RAISINS AS SHEEP FODDER.
“Westerner”: It may sound quaint to
graziers in the Eastern States, but the W.A.
Dried Fruit Board has this year granted
the owners of raisins permission to divert
their export quota to the feeding of stock.
The raisins are used stalks and all, and
mixed with pollard and treacle, and as far as
the experiment has gone—previously raisins
had been used for horse feed but not for
sheep—very good results have been obtained.
The sheep, once they acquire the taste, eat
more and more. In one case 150 raided
sheep on a bare paddock had been fed on
pig-melons. The melon ration was continued,
but 201 b. of the raisin-pollard-treacle mix-
ture was added. In a fortnight the sheep
were disposing of 501 b. a day. The sheep
fattened appreciably and no ill-results de-
veloped. On melons they had been just hold-
ing their own.
Why is such an excellent human food as
raisins fed to sheep? The answer is simple.
Australia produces 74 per cent, more of the
fruit than is needed for home use, and the
export market isn’t favorable. When raisins
aren’t absolutely unsaleable in London prices
range from £8 to £25 per ton —and it costs
£29 10s. to ship a ton from the farm, via
Perth or Fremantle, to London. It pays
better to take the price graziers will pay.
PINK WORMS IN SHEEP.
“Pick”: When sheep develop bottle-jaw
and rapidly lose condition, and when num-
bers are found dead and emaciated, exami-
nation of their stomachs will reveal count-
less masses of worms, pink in color and
half an. inch to an inch in length. Raw
patches on the inner membrane of the
stomach show their points of attachment
thereto.
These parasites produce eggs which pass
from the sheep, and in any damp position
on the earth hatch larvae. Then comes the
time of infection. In their ensheathed stage
the larvae crawl up the stems of wet grass
and are consumed by other sheep, in whose
interior the process of procreation is re-
peated.
In days when all sheep were tended and
yarded overnight mortality from worms was
practically nil. The inference is that worm
larvae are mostly picked up from dew-wet
grass; but swamp-lands and sodden flats are
also grounds of infection. Affected sheep
should be moved to dry, hilly country and
brought in for drenching once a month till
they exhibit signs of improvement.
A solution of Jib. of bluestone in 3 gallons
of water makes a suitable drench, which
should be administered in 3oz. doses. Use a
foot length of rubber tube attached to a
funnel. Place the tube well back in the
sheep’s mouth and pour the drench through
with a measure.
Let the animal stand naturally, and to
avoid the danger of smothering him don’t
tilt his muzzle upward.
THE BRACKEN CURSE.
“Hatter”: The West of Scotland Agricul-
tural College has recently published a pam-
phlet dealing with a virulent fungoid disease
that attacks the bracken, and has spread
rapidly during the past year throughout areas
of Southern Scotland. A similar disease was
first observed about 10 years ago on a farm
in Ayrshire, and although it was not then
identified there seems little doubt that it
was the same that has now become prevalent.
The first indication in this case was a
curious wilting of the bracken over a wide
area, with the result that by now all the
strong healthy fern lias succumbed and only
dwarfed hard fronds struggle for life. In
Arran Island bracken that was breast-high
three years ago is gradually dying back, and
in other parts areas that were once badly
infected are now practically free from the
pest. Apparently when the current year’s
growth has been destroyed by the fungus
the next year’s fronds develop in a puny
manner. Sometimes these succumb also
when only a tiny stem of two or three inches
appears.
There are apparently different degrees of
virulence, but whether this is due to different
varieties of fungus or to local conditions is
not yet ascertained. In fact, very little is yet
known about the disease, but so far it has
proved quite harmless to other vegetation.
Research work on this important subject is
in progress, and there seems every proba-
bility of the farmer enlisting a valuable
ally in his attack on this übiquitous robber.
EMBARGO ON~ARGENTINE BEEF.
“Bad Australian”: According to late
advices, the Yanks have placed an embargo
on Argentine beef on account of another of
the periodical outbreaks of “aftosa,” or foot-
and-mouth disease, in tin; southern republic.
If the reports are correct, it is practically
certain that Great Britain will be forced to
adopt similar measures, despite the import-
ance of the interests involved, and Australian
exporters should, and probably will, make the
most of the opportunity afforded.
Foot-and-mouth disease is the worst enemy
the Argentine stock-raiser has to contend
with, and although the actual mortality is
not great, animals affected by it suffer from
severe and prolonged wasting, and their
growth and preparation for market is very
seriously retarded in consequence. The dis-
ease was introduced into the country in the
early days of settlement, and it has existed
in a greater or less degree ever since, despite
the most strenuous elforts to eradicate it.
Of late years, with the subdivision of hold-
ings and the rapid development of agricul-
ture, many cattle-breeders have found it more
advantageous to stock with sheep; but the
Argentine sheepman is almost as heavily han-
dicapped by “sarna,” or scab, as the cattle-
breeder is by foot-and-mouth disease.
Australia had early experience of scab, and
it was only by adopting heroic measures
that it was stamped out, and it behoves us
•to take every precaution against the intro-
duction of foot-and-mouth disease, which
would be a far more difficult proposition
to deal with.
ST. JOHN’S WORT.
“E.H.S.” : The spread of St. John’s wort
in Vic. is serious. The impartial administra-
tion of the Noxious Weeds Act combined
with the natural desire of every decent
farmer to keep his land clean should go far
towards checking the pest on cleared coun-
try, but as long as it is permitted to over-
run Crown lands it will be a source of
worry and expense to neighbors. Already
practically the whole of the rough moun-
tainous Crown lands in north-east Vic., from
Euro a to the upper Murray, comprising many
hundreds of square miles, is infested, and I
am told that it has crossed the Murray and
is spreading in New South Wales. Much is
made of a few desultory experiments at eradi-
cation. on small plots with salt, soda and
various other weed destroyers, which,
although perhaps entirely satisfactory from
the experimenter’s point of view, are of little
practical value to the average land-holder.
St. John’s wort is a very hardy, deep-root-
ing plant, which seems to be at home on
every variety of soil. It thrives as well in
a growing forest as on cleared country, and
wherever it establishes itself the land soon
becomes absolutely valueless for grazing
purposes. Arable land infested with the
weed may be cleared of it by ploughing, but
where it gets a firm hold on rough or broken
grazing-country the position is, under pre-
sent conditions, hopeless. In the circum-
stances it behoves every land-holder to keep
a sharp lookout for the pest, and wherever
a plant shows, to dig it out and burn it.
DODDER.
Dodder is a vegetable octopus that has a
particular affection for legumes, such as
lucerne and clover. It is the worst Aus-
tralian enemy of lucerne. Its seeds lie dor-
mant in the ground in winter. With the
spring it grows—thin as a thread and some-
what spirally. The thin stem waves round
(Continued on page 82.)


m
m
*****
%
•S’-
' >
O&ZZS&
m
m
rr..,
fcjT
>: -n
: f
1
s
.-
r
"V'W'j- I
S 8
p
r -i' ; " -
twPP ■ •
.
r|§|§l
■ -1‘;
ft :
I
M
, ; X'
: \ ' <- \
P.oleman
THraaiirq
Lamps and
Lanterns
“The Sunshine of the Night ”
COLEMAN QUICK-LITE Lamps
and Lanterns each give More Light %
than 20 old-style Kerosene Lamps
or 20 old-style Kerosene Hurricane
Lanterns.
NO WICKS TO TRIM-
NO CHIMNEYS TO CLEAN
'J'HE day you get your Coleman QUICK-LITE Lamp
will end all the drudgery and trouble old-style
oil lamps mean in your home.
—No more greasy wicks to trim !
—No more smoky chimneys to clean!
—No more daily fillings!
—No soot to soil your table coverings,
curtains, walls and woodwork!
You simply light your QUICK-LITE whenever you
wa/it cheery radiance. You fill it only once a
week, and it gives you an average of two or three
hours’ beautiful pure-white brilliance every evening.
And it’s always ready for immediate use in any
room of your home. The QUICK-LITE solves your
lighting problem perfectly; saves you work; saves
you worry and saves you money—and, best of all,
it saves eyesight.
300 Candle-power—Brighter than 20 old-style oil
lamps.
Lights with Matches—No delay—no hunting around
for an alcohol torch.
Most Economical —Makes its own gas from common
motor petrol.
A Safe Light To Use —Can’t spill fuel, even if tipped
over.
An Ornament in Any Home —Handsomely designed,
built of brass,’ heavily nickelled and polished.
COLEMAN QUICK-LITE CO.
of Australia,
135 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE
713 HARRIS STREET, ULTIMO, SYDNEY
31 BOWER B’L’GS, CHARLES STREET, ADELAIDE
<3
Cuticura Talcum Is
An Ideal Toilet Powder
It is pure, smooth and fragrant and
contains antiseptic properties which
help to allay excessive perspiration.
It imparts a pleasing fragrance and
leaves the skin refreshed and cool.
Soap Is., Talcum, ls.3d„ Ointment Is. and
2s. For sample Soap and Ointment address:
“R. Towns & Co.. Sydney, N. S. W.”
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
Quote you price for the original.
SAVE WORRY
AND TRAVELING
EXPENSES
WHEN
IN
CNGIAND-
On those rare occasions when you visit the
Old Country, you want to spend your time to
the best advantage. Expenses quickly mount
up, and one can’t afford to buy a car for such
a short time, UNLESS- —Well, you can afford
it if you get your car from Pass and Joyce.
There you can choose from a wide selection
of the leading makes. Deferred Payments are
arrranged on most favorable terms, and you
can thus travel about in perfect comfort at
will, saving all ordinary travelling expenses.
And at the end of your stay Pass and Joyce
guarantee a re-purchase price for your car.
Detailed brochure on application to the
Manager, Sydney Bulletin, 214 George Street
North, Sydney, N.S.W.
RRSSJQYCE
London’s Leading
Automobile Agents.
373-375 Euston Road,
LONDON, N.W.I, England.
g*l iiJH jflP. .««.»
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
An Ideal Winter Home —The Most Sheltered Spot on the Harbor, with Private Beach and
Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds
and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor.
Reservations: YSOI2 (4. lines). Management M. E. BURROWS.
BEFPEEFRdM^
ASTHMA <
No matter how severe your
ASTHMA, CATARRH, COLD
IN THE HEAD, BRONCHITIS,
etc. Potter’s Asthma Powder
brings immediate and soothing
relief.
Of all Medicine Vendors 2/6 per Tin.
POTTER tx CLARKE. LTD.,
Artillery Lane. London. England
For outdoors, use Potter's Smoking
Mixture and Cigarettes
sd
ASTHMA
■miinm
m
rt
m
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.


\\
\
m
'ill
v
a
V>
$5
\
ts:
X
V
n
„>l M*H»*
f: sft
m
r
m
BPtir,n?
w.
»!«• W
mm
9MJ
_ilb. t^-
w:\rm
M
V
rwpiiui
’ssn
0»>
lJ
Built Jo* Ve W C*
C** 4 * 0 *
ltfDlA
VDI*aJV HiflOS
/N every clime, on every sort of road, l
New Zealand, Australia, indeed, in
are motorists who recognise those q
it a car of distinctly fine performance.
WHETHER the owner wears the brh
of Japan, there is recognition of the
car, with balanced qualities of power, spe
Oakland’s choice.
Owners themselves established the cosmo
is built. In the “distinctly different” Oa
met those standards as in the past, but ha;
by surpassing them.
That success in this endeavor is an assure
car itself —for even the casual study of
refinements will reveal that which makes
to drive, or merely ride in, any one of th
impressed by the greater operating efficienc
In power and performance, in luxury, in t
car.
OAK,!
THE COSMOPOI
f
METROPOLII
Melbourne—Southern Motors Pty., Ltd. Sydnei
Adelaide — H. C. Richards, Ltd. j
GENERAL MOTORS (.
MELBOURNE SYDNEY B
WARRANTED FOR
ONE YEAR
Buy from Your Local Dealer.
fe/J
si
r !
II
■an


won unaer me
rica, Canada, Egypt, India,
■ountries of the World there
:s in Oakland which make
costume of Spain, or the kimono
rability of a dependable motor-
safety and comfort that lead to
an standard to which Oakland
d, General Motors has not only
ieavored to win greater approval
ult is immediately obvious in the
land’s many improvements and
etter performance-ability; while
iv models is to be immediately
the Oakland Cosmopolitan Six.
y, it is the “distinctly different”
Ar d
AN SIK.
DISTRIBUTORS:
McGrath, Ltd. Brisbane—Moreton Motors , Ltd.
It— Skipper Bailey Motors Co., Ltd.
JSTRALIA) PTY., LTD.
IANE ADELAIDE PERTH
m
r
T>’J
9**
M/W
A
«K
AVSTRju. IA
vf
■*»
I
a
\\
m
umt
Egypt
X
/ \
/ N
i
(QJ
m
V
I
Mm
25^5
E
NEW ZEALAND
!—
Islilff!
\r ?
3
.
■
*
' XX
i» ' i 1i
mm
5
x
PRICES
FROM
£4lO


■
m
V
\ %»
""
n . i
For muscle freedom
and comfort
The secret of the surprising ease of
Abbey Riding Boots lies in the special
cut of the upper, and in their unusual
pliancy.
They are durable and tough yet
light. Lined with soft leather, there
is not one raised seam inside. Elastic
ankle insets preserve a close, flexible
fit.
Order by Post
Narrow, medium and wide fittings are
available in all sizes. That ensures
“made-to-measure” comfort. Specify
width' as well as length, and order,
also, a supply of the correct Abbey
Polish (6d. per tin).
TAN WILLOW CALF, 42/-
BLACK BOX CALF, 37/6
Enlarged catalogue of men’s, women’s
and children’s footwear post free.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY
FPL.I26
“THREE HUNDRED POINTERS ON
AUTOS AND TRACTORS.”
'THIS useful book of information on Autos
A and Tractors will be sent for 2/- post
free.
R. G. KNIGHT,
Box 3358 P.P., G.P.0., Sydney.
5 OR 6 SHEEP FOR Id.
ONE GALLON TREATS 900
rLx d / s „ e: ‘ se ha * caused more loss in sheep than Fluke,
pm nn . 6S k an one 'fifth of a penny per sheep this
’fptmnhi .^ e c *P e d by the application of Carbon
ISSvf'n Thls P rocess l>as been tested by the
‘ tu la * Departments of various States in Aus-
bas received their endorsement. It
J preparation and additions before it can be
out* in t 0 116 Sleep ’ an< J these are skilfully carried
SAYERS’ REMEDY FOR
FLUKE AND STOMACH WORMS.
Victoria
Queensland
N.S.W. South Australia
1 pint tins ... 4/6 5/- each
1 quart tins . . 6/6 7/- each
POST Fit Mi OF FIRST ORDER.
1 gallon tins . . 13/6 16/- each
delivered nearest railway station
OF FIRST ORDER TO INTRODUCE IT.
SAYERS, ALLPORT PTY., LTD.,
55 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
„ has accepted
®l[e
NEWS PICTORIAL
with the utmost enthusiasm.
ALL THE NEWS I
ALL THE PICTURES!
The State’s First Morning
Pictorial.
Largely increased Sales
already assured.
Arrange Contracts at
present rates.
HEAD OFFICE: REGISTER NEWS-
PAPERS, LIMITED, Grenfell Street,
Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative: Eric N. Birks,
Sydney. Tel. X 5187.
Melbourne Representative: G. N.
Bednall, “Argus” Building, Mel-
bourne. Tel. F 4502.
BIRKMYRE'S CLOTH
Regd. Trade-mark.
The best waterproof for motor-car
hoods, tarpaulins, horse and cow
rugs, etc. Canvas of all kinds, cot-
ton ducks and hesjdans, seaming,
bagging and shop twine.
Fishing nets and yarn. Samples
and prices on application.
GOUROCK
nomioiiK
KXI'ORT CO.
LTD.
379 Kent Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
4GO Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vic.
EXAMINATION FOR TOWN AND SHIRE CLERKS.
Men of ability and average education who wish to get out of the rut and enter a profession
where there is a certainty of employment are advised to send for our Prospectus. Here is one
profession where the supply is not equal to the demand. NOW is the time to begin.
E. C. BLUETT, Principal, Local Government Coaching College,
Newstead House, 229 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THE PASTORAL AND MERCANTILE ASSURANCE CORPORATION, LIMITED
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £250,000
ALL CLASSES OF INSURANCE EFFECTED.
Probate Disability, Extended Insurance, Non-Forfeiture,
Hospital, Medical and Nurse’s Fees Combined.
Make the event which causes the tax create the cash to pay the tax.
HEAD OFFICE: Hunter House, 26 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
A. McLEAN, Managing Director. r. y BOOTH Secretary
INQUIRIES INVITED. secretary.
fs
THE
SHAVE
PLOUGH
Shave’s Patent Stump-jump Reversible Disc Plough.
For full particulars apply to the manuj acturers or any agent.
(Netv Booklet just issued.)
NEW SOUTH WALES:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd.,
Miller’s Point, Sydney.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
W. Y. Scrutton,
34 North Terrace West,
Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND:
Clark & Fauset,
Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Interstate and Overseas Agents
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
H. J. Wigmore, Ltd.,
Wellington Street, Perth.
TASMANIA:
W. Hart & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
Charles Street, Launceston,
J. H. Stutterd,
Wynyard.
H. G. Buchanan,
10 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND
M. Steinberg,
Box 893, Wellington.
SOUTH AFRICA:
Mangold Bros., Ltd.,
Port Elizabeth,
. MANUFACTURED BY
D. & W. CHANDLER LTD,
FLINDERS LANE, MELBOURNE.
BRUNSWICK STREET, FITZROY.
LAVA STREET, WARRNAMBOOL.
HARGRAVES STREET,
PYNSENT STREET,
VICTORIA.
BENDIGO
HORSHAM
in sweeping circles, seeking for some plant
on which to cling. If this be not found the
stem at length lies prostrate on the ground
and after a dormant existence for a month
or so dies. But if some plant be near at
hand, the dodder stem slings itself around
it, after the manner of a twining plant. As
soon as its stem has embraced that of its
bearer, it gives off tiny suckers which enter
the tissue of the host plant. After suitable
attachment lias been effected the stem con-
tinues its twining growth with increased
vigor, the basal part dies away and all con-
nection with the soil is lost. Eventually the
long, leafless stems, orange-yellow in color,
burst into flowers of a beautiful golden tint.
On purchasing lucerne seed screen it
through a suitable mesh. Lucerne seeds are
larger than those of dodder. Dodder in a
crop can be easily detected owing to its
bright color. The affected plants should be
chipped to the crowns, allowed to dry and
burnt. The ash will make good manure.
the sheep-goat cross.
“Stinker”: Sheep and goats may cross in
South America, as “Bad Australian” says,
but they won’t do it in west Queensland.
On almost every station in that country, at
one time or another, there has been a mob
of goats running. No true cross has been
reported. At every lamb-marking some
strong-woolled lamb, heavy in kemp, will be
held up as the result of a ewe’s mesalliance.
Occasionally wool has been taken from the
lamb and sent to some expert. Ilis report
has always been the same: “No goat cross;
pure wool only.” On one occasion, to cure
the sceptical, I put a distinguishing mark on
five such so-called crosses. As those lambs
grew older, and dropped the tip of their
lamb’s wool, there was nothing to distinguish
them from others of the drop.
PLANTING FRUIT TREES.
“Boronia”: “Cam” is wrong in advising
the planting of fruit trees without fertiliser.
Apparently, his objection is based on the
high percentage of misses sustained with
his one planting of trees. That might have
been due to the trees being grafted on very
old stock, or planting too late in the season.
Possibly, again, the mixture of fertiliser
burned the young tender roots.
I have planted thousands of trees, giving
each two pounds of good bone-dust, and have
never lost more than 2 p.c. Trees planted
with this" fertiliser make a quicker and more
vigorous growth than those without. Further-
more, it gives greater wood formation on
which to build an ample, symmetrical shape.
It can be stated definitely that an orchard
started off with a liberal allowance of bone-
dust will always be superior to one in which
the trees received none at the time of planting.
ARGENTINE LINSEED.
“Bad Australian”: An ocean tramp has
just rolled into Sydney with about 4000
tons of Argentine linseed. Argentina, with
soil, rainfall and climate similar to those of
south-eastern Australia, is the biggest pro-
ducer of linseed in the world, her crop exceed-
ing that of India, the next on the list, by
60 p.c. It is grown in the same provinces
as wheat under exactly the same conditions,
and the immense production proves conclu-
sively that it is quite as profitable a crop,
if not more so. It would be a distinct
advantage to this country if the importation
of Argentine fodder and the assortment of
noxious weeds that usually accompanies it
•was cut out altogether.
BUILDING THE FOWLHOUSE.
“Jack Point” : Select the highest possible
point on which to erect the fowlhouse, and
ensure that in the very wettest weather it
will remain dry. Nothing upsets the hens’
laying more than even a day or two in a
wet house, when they just stand and mope.
If the hens are in full lay this couple of
days’ interruption by wet weather will throw
them right out of gear, and it takes many
days for them to come back to normal again.
On the other hand, if they are in a dry
house they can be confined in wet weather,
scratching for their grain in litter on the
floor. This ensures not only continuous lay-
ing but clean eggs. The site on which the
house is erected should face north or north-
east, so as to get the sun shining in the
front. Sunshine is the best and cheapest
germicide and disinfectant known. Il'ens
seem to do better on a natural earth floor
than a concrete one, though on a loose soil
which they can scratch about too easily a
concrete floor will prove a good investment.
STIRRING UP PLANTS.
“M.L.C.”: Though the practice of arrest-
ing a plant’s growth by putting it to sleep
in cold storage has been general for many
years, it is only recently that the converse
idea of awaking plants during their dormant
period by producing a synthetic spring has
become the subject of experiment. Certain
chemicals stimulate development in dormant
plants, so that lilacs, deutzias and other
shrubs that usually bloom under glass about
February in the Northern Hemisphere can
be brought into flower at Christmas time.
Also freshly-harvested potatoes, which nor-
mally germinate slowly because they are
in the rest period, if soaked in a 1 p.c. solu-
tion of sodium thiocyanate for one hour and
then planted without rinsing, will gain several
weeks’ growth on untreated tubers planted
at the same time. Ethylene gas has a similar
effect and is quite generally used to improve
the appearance of lemons, as it produces the
desired yellow tint. Scientists cannot en-
tirely explain why, but it is evident that the
presence of ethylene stimulates the life pro-
cesses of the lemons, since its action doubles
or even trebles the rate of production of
carbon dioxide from the respiration of the
fruit.
FEEDING DAIRY CATTLE.
“E.H.S.”: In order to secure a regular
and abundant supply of milk at all seasons
the dairy-farmer should grow a succession of
green-fodder crops throughout the year, and
these should be sown at intervals calculated
to permit of one paddock being eaten off
by the time another is ready for grazing.
To obtain the best results, the land should
be divided into paddocks of a few acres each
and the cows turned in when the crop is
about four or five inches high, or when it is
rooted firmly enough to prevent it being
pulled out by the grazing stock. It should
not be eaten off too closely, and the animals
should be given frequent changes from one
paddock to another.
It is advisable to stock heavily for short
periods, as the animals derive benefit from
the frequent changes and the crop will pro-
vide more grazing than if kept lightly and
continuously stocked until eaten out. With
a succession of crops, such as maize and the
millets during the summer months, and rye.
barley or oats in winter, dairying would be
a much more profitable proposition than
under the haphazard methods of so many
dairy-farmers.
It is, of course, essential that in addition
to having a liberal supply of fodder, the
animals should be well sheltered during the
winter months, as nothing puts a cow off her
milk quicker than exposure to frost or a cold
wind.
DRAUGHT HORSES.
“W.M.F.”: Draught horses fall naturally
into three classes and should be used in such
—heavy, medium and light. There are three
breeds each fitted for its own class of work.
The Percheron can be left out, because there
are so few of him in this country, but he is
a useful and hardy horse. Our three main
breeds are Shires, Suffolk Punches and
Clydesdales. Of all breeds of draught horses
the Clydesdale is tin; all-round champion. He
can be put almost anywhere and will give
satisfactory results, for lie is strong, active
and has good legs. For slow, steady work
the Shire is perhaps equally strong, and cer-
tainly more patient and long-suffering. Pro-
perly handled he will die before he refuses to
pull. For smart work on a farm the Suffolk
is a useful animal, being less bulky than the
other two. But keep him on the farm and off
the hard roads, or he will not last, his body
being too heavy for its rather poor legs.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) My fowls arc, I think, suffering from
a form of diarrhoea; the mess is Unlit green
and white. What's wrong and what's the
remedy f (2) .1 good tonic for hens at moult-
ing time? —207.
(1) On the particulars furnished it is
probable that fowl-tick is causing the trouble.
It is essential to eradicate the tick, which
will be. found in all crevices, etc., in close
proximity to where the birds roost at night.
Spray the building with kerosene emulsion
and paint the roosts with wood-preserving
oil. (2) Give Douglas’s mixture at the rate
of 2 tablespoonfuls to the gallon of drinking
water three days per week for at least a
month. The mixture is made as follows:
4oz. sulphate of iron, 4oz. Epsom salts dis-
solved in 1 gallon of boiling water. Let cool
and add |oz. dilute sulphuric acid. Keep in
stone jars or bottles.
(1) How far is inbreeding with English
sheep safe? (2) Name of a good hook on
the matter? —2o4.
(1) The N.S.W. Agricultural Department
does not recommend the mating of closely-
related sheep. Inbreeding is practised by
some stud breeders, but at the first sign of
retrogression a change is made, and, in any
case, the progeny is culled heavily. “Line
breeding” is more popular and safer. In
this method distantly-related animals are
mated. (2) Pearce’s “Sheep Farm and
Station Management” has information on
the subject.
(1) Is the North Coast (N.S.W.) suit-
able for raising fat lambs for export? (2)
What type does best on the coast and in
swampy land? (3) Would Southdown sheep
suit? (4) What is a Border Leicester cross
Merino ewe, and where are Border Leicester
rams procurable and at what cost? —l66.
(1) Not very. The feed in a good season
grows too rank and gross to be readily eaten
by sheep; they become over-fat, and for that
reason the lambing percentage is usually low.
Worms of various kinds are common, so
drenching has to be resorted to. These con-
ditions will become better as you get away
from low coastal areas, but in N. S. Wales
the country is not considered very suitable
for sheep-breeding until you reach the west-
ern slopes of the Tablelands. (2) Under
coastal conditions or where the country is
liable to be wet or swampy the Romney
Marsh or Romney Marsh cross will give the
best results, as this breed is not so subject
to footrot as other breeds. (3) The South-
down ram mated with the Border Leicester
cross Merino ewe will give an ideal lamb under
good conditions, but the Romney Marsh cross
is certainly to be preferred on the coast. (4)
The Border Leicester cross Merino ewe is the
result of mating a Border Leicester ram with
Merino ewes. Border Leicester rams should
be procurable at six to seven guineas per
head. There are a number of studs of this
breed in the Tamworth and Gunnedah dis-
tricts.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“0.H.”: An excellent tonic poultry
during the cold months is linseed and sun-
flower seed. Give a teacup of seed once a
week to 100 birds. The seed can also be
soaked and a little added to the warm morn-
ing mash twice a week. For birds late in
moult the seed helps feather production.
“Pick”: On frosty mornings if the sun
does not shine early upon tender plants or
blossoming fruit trees, no harm comes to them.
There are three easy methods by which plants
in small plots, or clustered fruit trees, may
be saved from the effects of the frost if
attended to before sun-up. Spray the plants
or trees with a hose or watering-can, shade
them from the sun until the frost has thawed
off, or tli row a smoke-screen over them by
burning damp straw.
“Hortus” : When giving medicine to pigs,
the easiest method is to rope the animal
as for ringing, and then, with the pig’s
head between your knees, pour the medicine,
which must be made as thin as oil, first into
one nostril and then into the other from a
feeding-can, similar to those used for oiling
machinery.
“Mullarula”: When using brigalow for
fencing-posts don’t make the mistake Inf
using round posts that are too small. They’ll
snap off at the ground line after a while.
Where brigalow grows big enough to split
into trees it makes good posts, but it is
only in certain soils that it grows as big
as that.


'S'S' "d*
£2
3%
$
KS
m
m
K
gr
nr ip** • Mm
li
i ii;;
uuna
I
m
HERE is no need
to ponder the
merits of this or
that brand of
hat. With entire confi-
dence you may select a
at that suits uourlersonaLitu
Obtainable at all the
leading Men’s Stores
A PRODUCT OF UNITED FELT HATS PTY. LTD


The centre of Queens/onc/s
'distinpu/sfac/ Soc/o/ Life.
sd
motel
Magnificent
room. Palm
Ball-
Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, with
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cables: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Central 5780 —10 Vines.
X'&'i
x./
.Vi—-.i
/^mm<
v/ ko «Tc
Mm*"
“Its Quality Never Changes.
1/9 per 2oz. Tin.
99
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS: R. TOWNS & CO., SYDNEY.
Monday to Friday
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/-
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’Hnte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock. Special Supper 12/6 ; or
a la carte, minimum, 12/6
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 5, 4/-. Pa "ties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 5.30, 5/-
The Ambassadors New Delightful
Dance Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M4ISI.
SMOKE-OH!
Sydney News : “How should a father treat
an uncontrollable boy?” We advise stern
measures.
¥ #
“The new lorry crashed over the cliff and
was dashed to pieces on the rocks.” The
end of a perfect dray.
¥ *
A London baker is claiming the Earldom
of Egmont. This will make some of the old
aristocracy feel crusty.
“Another Film War?” Or, in the ver-
nacular, a new picture rouse.
* ¥
“None of us cares to find the weak spots.”
Indeed, some of us deliberately go after
“pinkv ”
HIS MISTAKE—AND HERS.
IT: “I don’t know why you married me. I assure you
I was taken by surprise when you accepted me.”
HER : “No, Johnny, you weren’t taken by surprise —
I took you by mistake!”
‘‘The vessel lies on the sands, falling to
pieces; the name ‘Luck’ is ' decipherable on
the stern.” Somebody’s rotten luck.
¥ 3?
WASTED EFFORT.
“A woman’s toilet costs 265. per year.” —Evidence
at cost of living inquiry.
With costly powder woman dusts her face
to please
Mere man. And yet ’tis funny —
Man gravely doubts if half the visages he
sees
Are nearly worth the money.
MALE NOTICES.
To be Displayed at Post Office Hotel, Bcer-
rillc. By order.
Inward males received from 0 a.m.
Males (and females) dispatched outward
at 0 p.m.
Street receivers: P.C.’s McNab and
O’Brien will collect at all hours.
Private boxes: Apply after 6 (side en-
trance only).
o. w. w.
EPITOMISED POLICIES.
The Railways: Stop, look and listen before
crossing!
Unionists: Stop, don’t listen, and cross
before Lukin !
“He puts fire in his speech,” they said,
But, I mused as his voice rose higher,
How nice ’twould have been if instead
He had put his speech in the fire.
* *
KEEP OUR CRITICS PURE.
“The Office Flapper”: I think the Mel-
bourne dramatic critics who objected to the
wickedness of “Young Woodley” are to be
sympathised with, not sneered
at. Dramatic critics get free
tickets, so they are really in-
vited guests—l mean, it is only
the moving-picture people who
write their own criticisms. Well,
as they arc guests, their inno-
cence ought to be respected, just
as if they were pure women
visiting your own house. I
mean, a dramatic critic may be
an elderly bachelor who has
lived to a Great Age unspotted
by Life. I mean, he may never
have heard a commercial travel-
ler telling the story of his life
in a smoking-compartment or
anything like that. Well, if
you had been as nicely brought
up as that and you were in-
vited to an entertainment and
it turned out to be “Young
Woodley,” wouldn’t you be
shocked? So I think it would
only be ordinary politeness if
the Firm enclosed a little re-
sume of the plot when they send
the tickets to the newspapers
next time. So then the dramatic
critics who object to having
their purity sullied could send
the typist. I mean, the typist’s
boy-friend might be in the medi-
cal school at the University, and
so she would come Properly Prepared.
* *
An Australian who has been serving in the
U.S.A. army says: “It doesn’t seem like an
army.” How can it when it is impossible
for anyone to sing “When the Sergeant
Drinks Your Rum”?
* #
■ AUTUMN SONG.
Sing costly Fashion’s verses,
A pocketful of quids,
That dad has paid with curses
For mother and the kids.
Sydney News : “He quietly proceeded to
give the youth a thrashing.” Spanking in
an undertone, as it were.
SEVEN TESTS OF LOVE.
Her first onion.
Her first breakfast.
The birthday tie.
. Her mother’s post-honeymoon visit.
H’er pug's first night on the bed.
Discovery that her father is ruined and re-
quires £5OO at once.
Intimation that ruined father and lugu-
brious mother are coming to stay until the
clouds lift.
Arken.
NO ADVANTAGE IN THAT.
“And I’m sure I’m a pattern wife.”
“All the easier, my dear, for some other woman to cut
you out.”
“Defendant, a bootmaker, assaulted him
when he went to buy a pair of shoes.” Gave
him a welt, no doubt.
* *
TWIN OFFENDERS.
“A. J. (‘Emperor’) Cook has been expelled from
the Bolshevik party for fraternising with the Prince
of Wales.”
“I see,” the Bourgeois said, “your crowd
have outed A. J. Cook.”
“They have,” replied his friend, the Bol-
shie crank;
“He palled up with the Prince of Wales, and
so was brought to book.”
“‘Oh! his offence,’” in Shakspeare’s
icords, “‘is rank.’”
“But what,” inquired the Bourgeois, “is the
matter with the Prince?
His mind on politics might be a blank
For all the party feeling that he ventures to
evince.”
“Oh! his offence,” the Bolshie said, “‘is
rank.’ ”
10-2-4.
THE MIS UNDERSTANDING.
She opened the t door to hear him say,
“I’m the vacuum-cleaner man. Please pay.”
She cried in a loud, protesting shriek:
“Why, you said it would pay for itself in a
week!”
W. H.
NATURE’S FAULT, NOT HERS.
FRIEND (to divorcee): “He said you left
him without any reason.”
DIVORCEE: “Yes, but he didn’t have any
reason long before that.”
Sydney News : “Toast the Flapper.” It’s
one way of making the butter fly!
* *
“There is sufficient coal in Australia to
last for 2000 years.” And if the miners’
leaders have their way it will be there for
two million.
REPENTANCE.
I wish [ ’adn’t writ to ’er,
I’d like to do a flit,
I wish things was as once they were —
I wish I ’adn’t writ!
She’s told ’er friends that we’re engaged!
’Ow can a feller quit
Now that a party ’as been staged?
I wish I ’adn’t writ!
I must ’are wrote some stupid thing
_ That night I was so lit;
To-day she wants ter choose the ring —
I wish I ’adn’t writ!
When someone tells ’er of it all,
The wife will take a fit;
Gripes! but I’ll ’are to face a brawl! —
I wish I ’adn’t writ!
D.
SCENT APPEAL.
“The native girls of the Pacific Islands are becom-
ing regular users of French perfumes and powders.”
Product fair of tropic soil
Your charms are quite devouring,
But I’ve found your toilet oil
Rather o’erpowering.
Now icith creams and scents supplied
By the Frenchman Coty
You’ll be on the windward side
Not so mountain-goaty.
RIC.
“ASK AMBLE.”
Gerald Amble had always been recognised
as a mathematical genius. As for his
memory, it was phenomenal.
Married and grown to clerk's estate, he
was often asked such questions by his fellow-
helots “What is the flat freight rate
Sydney-Ivobe?” ; “Who is a notary in Syn-
squash, California?”; and “What did Under-
wear, Unlimited, pay in liquidation in Janu-
ary, 1922?” And he always supplied the
information promptly, if not correctly. “Ask
Amble” they used to call him at the office,
and he took a quiet pride in a name which
was a gratifying tribute to iiis ready, unflur-
ried, smooth-working brain.
But even prodigies have their weaknesses.
The name of Gerald’s was Celia. One day
after answering questions as to the year in
which Iron Jaw won the National and how
many times Billy Hughes fell off horses in
1919, lie turned for relaxation to his love.
“N r>o2s, please. Hullo. That you, Celia?
Gerald here.”
“Who’s speaking?”
“Gerald, Celia. Are you dining with me
to-night? I’ve told the wife that I’m due at
the office. Dinner then at the usual time
and place, darling. By-bye.”
All that came in answer was what he took
to be a joyous cry of assent. Hanging up
the receiver, Gerald walked briskly to his
desk. And as he walked his infallible memory
came into action.
He had rung up his wife’s number!
ERIC BEUFORD.
“K.C.s’ WEEK” IN SYDNEY.
(Some Impressions of a Royal Commission
Addict. )
Mr. Hambone, K.C.: I submit, yerroner,
that my client, Captain Button, is the victim
of a conspiracy engineered by the Mayor
and his journalistic ally. Both the small
scale and the Admiralty maps in the Coun-
cil Chamber show
An M.L.A.: Liar!
Judge Boil: There certainly seems to have
been laxness somewhere. Many of the voters
are now dead; one, at least, was hanged .
(Applause from public gallery, and cries
of “Serve him well right!”)
Mr. Windymore, K.C.: What did you say,
Mr. Gas, when first offered the Capstan
cigarettes? Come on now'! Out with it!
Mr. Gas, M.L.A.: I said, “Keep your
luxuries. This hand has never taken a bribe,”
I said, “nor ever will. Never !” I cried, “while
the Union Jack flutters in the invigorating
breezes of Heaven ; never while Britons stand
for right and truth and justice; never
while”
(After 20 minutes’ eloquence.)
Judge Jobson : All very edifying. But we
have heard nothing so far about the emer-
gency rations or the state of the rolls in
witness’s constituency.
Mr. Windymore: All in good time, yer-
roner. The more haste the less fees, you
know. Ha! Ha!
Members of Legal Profession : Ha ! Ha !
Mr. Purkis, K.C. (assisting the Commis-
sion) : Be so good as to tell his Honor, Mr.
Fitzgibber, what prompted you to take the
200 rounds of ammunition on the Minister’s
trip to Nowra.
Mr. Windymore (for Fitzgibber) : Don’t
answer him.
Judge Boil: The bearing of the missing
spanner on the votes alleged to have been
cast by dead widows at Oodnadatta in the
last year of the war does not appear to me
to be clear.
Mr. Windymore: That has nothing what-
soever to do with yerroner.
Judge Boil: I regard your remark as
grossly offensive.
Mr. Windymore: All right. I apologise.
Now, Gas, you deny that you were short of
petrol and spares at La Perousie?
Gas: I do. Absolutely and uncompro-
misingly I deny it. I can lay my hand on
my heart
Mr. Windymore: And were you not short
during the fishing excursion to Alice Springs
as well? Come now!
Gas (agitatedly) : With only
four thermos flasks of hot
coffee and a screwdriver! Your
suggestion is contemptible.
Windymore. [Turning to pub-
lic gallery.] So long as loyalty
to the grand old flag and devo-
tion to the person of my be-
loved Sovereign are regarded as
virtues in this fair Austral land
of ours, so long
Judge Jobson (coming to the
surface 40 minutes later) : Be-
fore proceeding with the re-
spective examinations of his
Worship the Mayor and the
editor of the Drummoyne
Watchdog, I would like to give
a brief resume, lasting no more
than an hour or so, of the ordi-
nances under the Local Gov-
ernment Act in respect of the
proper methods to be employed
in organising ’bus and ’plane
services in n.-w. Australia. The
opinion of more than one emi-
nent city transport authority
[A groan is heard followed
by a crash.] My associate is
evidently unwell. Is there a
doctor in court?
Doctor (after brief examina-
tion) : He’s dead, yerroner.
The symptoms are Acute Bore-
dom, complicated by repeated
and Merciless Insults to the
Intelligence.
Judge Boil: In the melancholy circum-
stances it might be as well if the Commission
adjourned, in a leisurely manner, and exam-
ined the Fitzgibber minute-books in the
fuselage of the 'plane, with particular refer-
ence to the reflections that have been cast on
the municipality’s solvency in the year 1879.
Commission adjourns.
10-2 4.


ESSEX
THE C H
ALLEIMGER
'V.'v,Vo ;74
I %
*3
'v. **
f t
9
a
Vw
«
r
. * •“'
S tatnina unsurpassed at higher prices
f
Essex the Challenger is built
in the same factory as the
Greater Hudson. It is made
to give year after year of
reliable, trouble-free motoring
pleasure, with performance,
economy, beauty and appoint-
ments usually found only in
cars much higher in price.
Go to your Hudson-Essex
dealer and ask him to let
you pit Essex the Challenger
against anything that motor-
dom has to offer. Only
then will its true value be
revealed.
ESSEX PRICES AT SYDNEY.
5 Balloon Tyres Standard Equipment.
Tourer (Australian Body)
Standard Sedan (Australian Body)
Standard Sedan (Imported Body) . . . . • • • •
Coupe (Imported Body)
Town Sedan (Imported Body, with bumper bars) . . • •
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
COMPANY
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.,
Phillip Street, Sydney.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
MOTORS LIMITED.,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.'
AUTOS LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


Tungstone House-Lighting Plante Batteries 36-10,000 a h.
For Central Station—Works-Cinema-Yacht—Train.
For the First time in the World’s History of Plante Plate Casting, Tungstone’s Plante
Positive and Box Negative Plates are High-Pressure Machine Die-Cast in a Fixed Mould.
Up to the present, the Plante Plates or Car Pasted Type of all the World’s makers are Cast
by the uncertain method of Hand Pouring the Metal into movable moulds without Pressure.
Tungstone Deeper Cast Lammels and more Lateral Current-Distribution Ribs increase
the superficial area of the Positive Plante Plate by more than Ten Times.
The Lammels and Current-Distribution Ribs are guaranteed to be cast more accurately and solidly, in regular and
symmetrical line, free from broken, split or distorted Sections, thus permitting Peroxide to form deeply down; to
grow generously and hold tenaciously. Guaranteeing even and simultaneous discharge from full surfaces of all plates.
Tungstone House Lighting Batteries NO CORROSION AT INTER-CELL CONNEITIONS.
Fitted with Patented Tungstone Permanently Ebonized and Insulated Nuts and Bolts which the Acid cannot Attack or Corrode.
Tungstone’s Strengthened Plate. Longer Life.
NO WEAK METAL SPOTS IN TUNGSTONE POSITIVE PLATE.
More Metal Forced into any given Plate Area with an evenness
of Metal Distribution, Homogeneity and Reliability, producing a
Positive Plate that is entirely free from indiscernible blow-holes,
invisible cracks or splits, no burnt face surface areas or dross.
Increased rigidity of Positive Plate Structure absolutely secured
by the extra specially strong internal Conducting Bars. See f^ tion
The increased stiffness of the Plates will withstand the stresses
of varying Peak Loads, Excessive Charges and Discharges
Certain preventative against early Plate Buckling.
THE POSITIVE PLATE WORKING LIFE CONSIDERABLY INCREASED.
INTERNAL
RIB
Upkeep Costs
considerably reduced.
Exceptional High
Capacity Storage.
Very Low Internal
Plate stresses.
Uniformity of Charge
and Discharge on All
Surfaces. No Rapid
Voltage Drop at
End of Discharge.
Figures point to Increased
Metal Bars in Plate
Design and Construction
Securing Longer Life and
Higher Capacity.
FIG.I
FIG. 2
FIG. 3
■
FIG. 4
FIG. 6
I
FIG 7
1
1
FIG.S 'FIG.B FIG. 6
FIG.S
Only four continuous hours charge completes Works First Partial
Charge of any Tungstone Plante or Car Battery from 6 to 10,000 amps.
Plante can be immediately discharged for Light ONLY during First Charge.
WORLD'S REVOLUTION IN BATTERY PRACTICE. SAVING ALL OVERTIME AND NIGHT SHIFTS.
Tungstone 1 s Works First Partial Charge Entirely Prevents Sulphation and Damage to Plate«» First Charge
AH other Makers* Box Negative Plates by the necessity of an exceptionally Long First Charge, always create Germs of Sulphation.
Excessive portions of Active Material become permanently sulphated, which cannot be regenerated by subsequent re-charges. Sulphation
is the cause of decreased capacity and amp. hour efficiency, and considerably shortens Working Life of Plate. All other Makers Box
Negatives at end of discharge are 1.85 a certain point that always stimulates Sulphation. Tungstone’s end of discharge is the Safe Point of J.. 93.
Tungstone*s exclusive Works processes entirely prevent internal Sulphation to start or become a permanent part of the Active
Material. The Active Material is permanently converted into Pure Lead, no fixed patches of Sulphation germs are internally created.
A nominal amount is present, but it is not malignant and on a short re-charge is converted into Pure Lead.
Tungstone*s Partial First Charge of aU Car and Plante Plates at Works fixes the Positive Plate with a thoroughly adherent and
homogeneous coating of lead peroxide which generously forms on whole Plate surfaces. With Security and Safety the Plate can be completely
charged and discharged at exceptionally high rates without shedding of active material, in the extremelv short period ot Four Continuous Hours.
Why other Makers 9 Box Negative Plates Continually Lose Capacity making Shorter Working Life
ammm
Patented and Registered Trade Mark in the
Chief Countries of the World.
Tungstone Two Halves of the Pure Lead Perforated Gauze Sheets, by High-Pressure Machine Die-Casting
are Riveted on both sides INTO the four edges of the Frame.
Simultaneously they are also permanently fixed UNDER the four main ribs
of the two Plate Faces.
By Tungstone’s original and exclusive system of construction the two Gauze Sheets are immovable and
an integral part of the completed Plate. This perfect unison ensures permanent metallic contact with the
Active Material, increasing the Capacity Efficiency, also securing Longer Plate Life.
Tungstone Box Negative Gauzes cannot Parc fiom Frames
at the EDGES or SURFACES, therefore the Paste cannot fall out to create a destructive Short
Circuit or gradual Loss of Capacity. Prolonged laboratory research has produced a Negative
Paste free from sulphation with high porosity which does not harden or lose itsspongypropertiesand
harmoniously works throughout its active life in practical scientific balance with the Positive Plate.
All the World's Makers (except Tungstone) Only Lay
the two Box Negative Gauzes on the Plate Faces.
They are not permanently fixed Into the four edges on both sides of the frame.
This serious defect In all other makes of Box Negative Plates permits the Paste
to freely and continually drop out, creating Loss of Capacity, which demands
frequent Re-charging and earlier Re-plating.
The constant dropping out of the Paste is the main cause of frequent breakdowns of All other
Makers’ Batteries, also the basic source of reduced capacity and shorter Plate Life. Negative Paste
being Metallic, in falling out it invariably causes an immediate short by touching the Positive, which
always completely destroys a Plante Battery.
BRITISH EMPIRE LEAD USED IN ALL TUNGSTONE CAR AND HOUSE LIGHTING BATTERIES.
SYDNEY: A. J. Dawson, m.i.a.e.. Sales and Service, 91 William Street (Tel., FL2084).
BRISBANE: Brisbane Cars and Tractors, Ltd., Wickham Street.
MELBOURNE: Hocking & Hadden Pty., Ltd., 208 Latrobe Street.
C.T.P 42.


r.
m
'■ • : i
Ci
£4
DYNAMIC LOUD SPEAKERS
EACH musical instrument is
made clearly distinguishable
—the piano sounds like a piano,
the ’cello like a ’cello; not like each
other.
Each note —from booming bass to
soaring treble —comes in with
crystal clarity.
Original tone values are repro-
duced, unimpaired, not “muffled’’
or “fogged.”
UNITS ONLY FROM £7/157-
CABINET MODELS FROM £lO
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL RADIO DEALERS
WHOLESALE & RETAIL DISTRIBUTORS IN ALL STATES.
/■' 4
ms
wsm
Cruising to
JAVA and
SUMATRA
First-class round fare to Belawan
Deli (Sumatra), calling at Java ports,
Singapore and Penang: From Brisbane
and Sydney, £ 99; from Melbourne,
£105.'
The K.P.M. invites you to wonder and wander in Java and
Sumatra, islands of exotic attractions.
Glorious days at sea, the comforts and conveniences of the
great Liners Nieuw Holland and Nieuw Zeeland will be a
delightful holiday for you.
The steamer is your hotel for the round voyage.
Full particulars from
ROYAL PACKET NAVIGATION COMPANY
(K.P.M. Line),
255 George Street, Sydney.
John Sanderson & Co., 11l William Street. Melbourne; Dalgety & Co., Brisbane;
Elder, Smith & Co., Adelaide and Perth.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
ato*'
m Si
BRITISH
MADE
Perfection
PirSK: RUBBER
If any illustration in “The Bulletin” takes your fancy, write
to the Manager, who will quote you price for the original.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes
from Entrance to Domain and Circular
Quay.
TARIFF from 19/- per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day
from 6/6 and upwards. Cards of Tariff
and all particulars posted on application to
THE MANAGER.
Pen and Picture
Shadow Shows
“H old ’Em,
Yale” (P.D.C.),
is a wildly im-
possible college-
life comedy in
which Rod la
Roque is a
super-man from
Argentina, and
an incredibly clever monkey and a series
of fine panoramic views of the football oval
of Yale Uni. are the best features. Rod takes
the field in a fainting condition due to hor-
rible injuries to his shoulder, but inspired by
his love for a pure woman he mows down the
North Americans from Princeton like wheat,
and wins game and girl. The rest is farce,
very laughable farce.
Of all the 60,000 supers, who are reputed
to cool their heels in Hollywood waiting for
a job, poor old Armageddon seems to be the
one most continuously employed. He pro-
vides the back-
NANCY CARROLL.
ground for
“The 'Sh o p-
worn Angel,”
a Paramount
silent - c u Mi-
noisy film;
but for once in
a way his em-
ployment i s
d r a matically
justified in
full. The pic-
ture gets into
its stride with
c o mmendable
speed. Presi-
dent Wilson is
seen calling
the nation to
arise and fight
the Hun. Un-
fortunately the
talkies weren’t
invented then,
so the call is
felt rather
than heard. Millions of men leap to arms,
or, rather, go into camp, but solely in order
that Gary Cooper, an extraordinarily tall
young man, shall wander into N’York City,
a bucolic recruit, and there fall in love with
Nancy Carroll, the red-headed front-row
charmer of a Broadway revue. Nancy’s life
is all glitter and gold bracelets and one
cocktail after another and Mr. Bailey, who
keeps her in fine clothes, a limousine and an
expensive flat. Private Cooper is the real
thing, or what looks like it, to a possibly
somewhat empty-headed girl. Nevertheless,
Nancy isn’t as empty-headed as she seems,
though she certainly looks it on the screen.
Her deeper emotions are touched and she
agrees to please the boy by marrying him on
the eve of his departure for the Front, though,
being a practical person too, she intimates to
the accommodating Mr. Bailey that she will
return to him after the troopship sails. She
faints when the moment comes for her to
say “I will,” and the military police drag
her soldier from the unconscious form. When
she awakes the troopship has gone, and so
has her soldier and Mr. Bailey, too. The
disconsolate gir) returns to the theatre, and
finds that her position in the front row has
vanished also. She is sent to the back row
and told she can work up again. Here she
has a vision of her hero being killed in an
offensive, and there is a vague assumption
that the deepening of her experience deepens
her voice, but as she is only allowed to sing
a trashy song, the fact doesn’t seem to matter
much either way. An admirably-told story,
though sugary here and there. Nancy Cari
roll is too much the conventional flapper
star to convey the trials and tribulations of
her soul; but Gary Cooper is effective all
through.
Milton Sills, who would have inspired
Ethel M. Dell if the lady hadn’t got in ahead
of him, does his latest dags in a Venetian
fantasy, “Love and the Devil” (First
National), in which he refrains from violent
assault on anyone till the last reel. There’s
a court scene, in which Lord Sills, accused
of shooting his wife, declares several times
that he will not be saved at the expense of
his and her dishonor, but after hearing evi-
dence the jury acquits him on sentimental
grounds. He seeks out the villain, equipped
with duelling pistols, but after hearing the
dastard’s confession commences to throttle
him according to the best American tradi-
tions of the British aristocracy His lady,
who has lain doggo with brain fever, comes
in just in time to put a bullet through the
black heart of the caitiff, thereby saving all
further trouble, legal and domestic. The
plot teems with tense moments, and Maria
Corda, as the deeply-wronged wife with a
piebald past, deserves mention for her facility
in wearing clothes so that they don’t matter.
Another circumstance that evokes interest is
the careful selection by Lord Sills of a hunt-
ing rifle equipped with Zeiss telescopic sights
in order to slay the villain at a range of
five feet.
.“The Trail of ’9B” (M.-G.-M.) is a mag-
nificent demonstration of what Brains can
do with a lot of old stereotyped props. Here
are the familiar sheets of Alaskan snow, the
crowds of frenzied treasure-seekers tramp-
ing through them, our ancient friend the
hero, who sets out to make his fortune, and
our old acquaintance the girl who is jour-
neying to the Klondyke to meet relations
bent on setting up a store. But soon after
the picture has settled down into its stride
the snow has become a glittering, mocking
symbol of the blind, casual forces of nature;
and the crowds, handled by a producer with
the skill and knowledge of mob psychology
of an ex-parson Garden heading an unem-
ployed march, have become an emblem of the
hunger for easy gold. As for the romance, it
lias the simplicity and sincerity of actual
life. The boy meets the girl and promptly
falls in love, the gold fever puts them tem-
porarily in different wards, so to speak, and
after various vicissitudes they are eventually
united. A simple story, capable of being
decorated with the maximum amount of
slush. Instead* it has the sincerity and
actuality of real life. Dolores del Rio and
Ralph Forbes make no obvious appeal to
the emotions, with the result that the emo-
tions gratefully respond. The story is de-
rived from a work by Canadian poet Service,
and for once in a way the screen has done
a service to Service, not to mention litera-
ture as a whole.
The Palette
Etchings which include a glimpse of the
original Riceyman’s Steps, but which on the
whole are not very striking, a colorful panel
of pencil drawings and some romantic water-
colors of the Harbor, chiefly make up the
John C. Goodchihl exhibition at the Gros-
venor Galleries, Sydney. There is a fine
balance of high-sky and brief foreground in
“lhunder Clouds,” and the artist has held
the real light in “Between Showers.” In
fact, there is plenty of good work scattered
about, but there’s an absence of individuality.
“F.S.”: Australian cities have lately gone
in with great enthusiasm for the flood-
lighting of buildings. In Melbourne even
insurance companies have adopted the idea.
It is hai’d to see what the owners gain from
it. Architecture is conceived as being lighted
from one direction at a time only. Hence
the beauty of buildings losing themselves
mysteriously in the upper darkness or being
boldly outlined in moonlight. The modern
method is to hand fagades with numerous
hooded lights aiming in all directions. The
result is that upward rushing lines suggest-
ing height are smashed and horizontal ones
are brutally emphasised, so that an edifice,
graceful in the daytime, at night will look
squat and horribly distorted. This form of
blatant caricature is a distinct libel on the
architects, and if they had as much artistic
conscience as the painters they would insist
on their works being protected from mutila-
tion.
WOMEN PAINTERS.
Why those fogeys who crusade against
.modern woman’s cocktail-drinking, gadding
and other celebrations of her emancipation
haven’t thought of Paint as a cure is a
mystery. It could be advocated as an amus-
ing pastime, and as the day’s Good Deed
for the amusement it is nearly sure to give
others. There need be no fear that the
masterpieces would have to blush in private
over the drawing-room mantelpiece; the
Society of Women Painters would surely
include them in its annual hanging.
This exhibition, lately opened at the Edu-
cation Gallery, Sydney, teems with side-
tracks for the curious. A thousand com-
parisons could be made between it and a like
show’ dominated by men. For a start, the
men’s show would be better. The ladies
have no answer to Hcysen, Streeton,
Mclnnes, Longstaff or Eambert; there is no
answer in this show to many lesser fry.
Again, it is generally accepted that women
are fond of the idea of home and children,
even if not of the fact, and there is plenty
of supporting evidence here. But apparently
man appeals to woman as a thing of beauty
only when he is hoary with whiskers, and
woman, either dressed or undressed, v does not
appeal at all. Clothes, which women are
nearly always passionately fond of, are left
untouched, but flowers, which they also like,
fill almost every third canvas (especially
zinnias). Their landscapes almost invari-
ably have a house or a hut in them, and
have the hackneyed coloring of English
autumn, and their sea nearly always lias
evidence of humanity about it. In short, on
this evidence, they take the easy way every
time 'in the execution ; where they beat the
men hollow is in their daring, their cour-
ageous hunting after topics. Wliat man
would have been game to tackle this “Para-
dise Lost,” or, having tackled, would have
been game to people it so abundantly with
giraffes?
The society could make a much better
show by hurling out the worse half; it would
then be a better ad. for women painters and
woman in general. The society’s annual
prize was won by Constance Moser with a
lonely piece called “Smith’s Selection,” ex-
cellent for its convincing bush atmosphere
and admirable suggestion of level distance.
Others that stick in the memory are a few
more Constance Moser landscapes, a self-
portrait by Mary Edwards, a pencil portrait
by Mrs. H’ilda Rix Nicholas, some small
etchings by Ella Dwyer, two bits of garden
by Laura Booth, and some landscape by
Alice E. Norton. Mary Will Slade has
some fine landscape marred by too-romantic
color.
The Inky Way
“Solong”: The Papuan Villager, a news-
paper issued for the use of natives, has
recently been published at Port Moresby by
the Government Printer. It is printed in
easily understood English, and is greatly
liked by the missionised Papuans. A feature
of the paper is that contributions are ac-
cepted from natives, and several that have
so far appeared have been of surprising
merit.
Lao-dah”: Frank Russell, the special
writer whom Melbourne Herald has sent
on a world tour, secured audiences with the
King of Italy, Mussolini and the Pope on
successive days. An ex-barrister, Russell
got into journalism through the porthole, so
to speak. His coup in Rome was actually
due to his work at the Eucharistic Congress
in Sydney last year. His colorful dispatches
were regarded as the best received in Mel-
bourne. Later they were issued in book
form.
“Homfrey Beale”: It is possible that a
working burglar will be one of the entrants
m The Bulletin’s 1929 Novel Competition
Une entered my room in a Lithgow (N.S.W.)
hotel the other night and got away with
some cash, a few trifles and—“ The Writers’
and Artists’ Year Book.” There were several
other volumes on the shelf, but that was the
only one he took. There seems to be a storv
in it for someone, J


a
ca>
V
**4D£
IN CRCAT*Q r
Br itaih
r^s-
©
,&
No. 99 SET. Contains the essentials for
perfect “Valet” shave—the razor,
strop and three blades in leather-
ette-covered case
3/
Managing Agents for Australia •
PHIPSON & COMPANY, LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Neto Zealand Agents:
VAN STAVEREN BROS., Ltd., Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch.
“What does that mean —‘Strops
itself’?”
“There’s a stropping device built into
the head of the razor —strop just slips
through the razor head! *
“ Yes —and then?”
“Then all you do is run the Valet Auto-
Strop razor to and fro. Click, click —
and the blade is instantly sharpened
without taking it out of the frame.’’
“Surely that sharpens only one side
of the edge?”
“No, no both sides are stropped
alternately.'*
“Should be pretty sharp when
you’ve finished.”
“Sharp! It’s the keenest razor edge
there is—and it lasts for months.”
‘Stropping take long?”
“Ten seconds each morning, and you
get the same principle right through
the Valet range: 3/-, 10/- or 22/6.
All dealers sell them.”
“Good. I’ll get one to-day.”
Jjf
%
ate
.s>»
imfl
WrWT
M
i
JT
*h*s
%%
la
1
0
&
£
V
si
V
&C
*
*
•v
Iff
VIA
1
WEED
TYRE CHAINS
are on
these tyres
They leave their im-
prints of unmistakable
quality and service
behind them.
Every cross chain bites
deep into mud, sand or
clay, and traction is thus
assured. You can go any-
where with Weed Tyre
Chains on your tyres.
Made in sizes to fit all tyres
—single or dual, solid or
pneumatic.
Order from your dealer
AMERICAN CHAIN CO.
New York, N. Y., U. S. A.
WEED TYRE CHAINS
SICK HEADACHES
are usually
caused by faulty
elimination
V
FRUIT SALT
Ki
o°o.
7
Nowadays, when the stress of modern life makes great
demands on our physical and mental resources, we are
all liable to constipation and the ailments to which it
leads—sick headaches, fatigue, bilious attacks and
other troubles. To attack this condition with
drastic purgatives can at the best only bring temporary
relief, and is certain to shock the system unnecessarily.
Eno’s “Fruit Salt” deals with these “ills of civilisation”
in much the same way that regular exercise, fresh air
and simple food would do. For Eno prompts the most
important of the bodily functions to work dutifully and
to time. Eno removes the waste and poisons of yesterday
from the system, safely, naturally and thoroughly. Yet
Eno is so mild you can give it to any child. Follow this
golden rule of family health, proved for sixty years; a
glass of Eno’s “Fruit Salt”—sparkling and refreshing—-
first thing every morning.
Sales Agents: i'British {Harold < 3. {Ritchie & Go., Xtd., Sydney, ZN'.S. c lsD.
ENOS
FRUIT SALT


Don't wish for the Best —get it.
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
HARVEY’S “SPECIAL” Whisky
AN OLD “SPOT” MELLOWED BY AGE.
Sole Agents: RESCH’S, LTD., Redfern, Sydney.
[4.
WINCHESTER
NEW MODEL 53
REPEATING RIFLE
Made in 3 Calibres, 25/20, 32 and 44
This new model has the same action as the old ’92 model underjever Winchester.^which
has for many years been so popular among shooters. HIGH VELOCITY, SUPER-
-22-INCH NICKEL STEEL BARREL, which is specially f to of rifle 39 inches
SPEED and HI-SPEED Cartridges, which have a range of 500 Y ARDS. Length ot r
over all. Weight 61b. Handy for carrying on horseback o: in.the car oonw g £ /
6-SHOT REPEATER. The under-lever action is the most reliable know .
Va
LTD
PTY
THE GUN PEOPLE,
Gun and Cartridge Makers,
318 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
For Randwick on Monday:—
.Tune Stakes: Ulah; next, Casque d’ Or.
A. J. C. Hurdle Race: Stony; next, W.B.
Firsf Steeplechase: Samphire.
Ellesmere Handicap: Inducement; next,
Sun Flare.
* * * *
Two seasons ago T. M. Burke landed the
V.R.C. Grand National Hurdle with Coy-
beau, after his main string, Bombard, had
met with injury and been unable to go to
the post. This year Announcer and Patri-
otic are on the casualty list, and Burke
will now depend on The Indian, whose
merits were unrecognised until he led home
the Federal Hurdle field at Moonee* Valley
last Saturday. A son of Red Dennis, who
sired the 1921 Melbourne Cup winner, Sister
Olive, The Indian easily vanquished, the
favorite, Baldini. He may be a National
possibility; but, unless the heavy track
anchored them, none of the other starters
are worth consideration. It means much
to McShortodds when the racing begins with
a 15-to-l winner; and that was The Indian’s
price.
Acid was applied to some Grand National
candidates in the Commonwealth Steeple-
chase. Twelve lined up, with George Wil-
liam in half a point better demand than
Wanda King. As much as 33 to 1 was laid
against Mosstrooper, who had done so little
credit to his sire, Kenilworth, that every
rival had to concede him weight. Moss-
trooper belongs to and is trained by Gus
Powell, father-in-law of the retired jockey
Under the Whip
The A.J.C. included a hurdle race and a
steeplechase in its programme at Warwick
Farm on Saturday. Stony (3 to 1), an un-
lucky second in Scarlet’s Sydney Cup, and
Murray King (12 to 1), winner of that race
in 1926, fought out the finish of the contest
over the sticks, Neil McKenna’s old gelding,
served by his greater experience—Murray
King is a comparative novice at the game—
winning handily. His age notwithstanding,
Stony will take a power of beating in the
big hurdle race at Randwick, in which he
has only 9st. 21b. Quick Deal (2 to 1)
fenced smartly and showed plenty of pace in
the Steeplechase, completing the “about two
miles” in 3min. 52sec.; but they say he can’t
stay.
An obscure jockey six months ago, W.
Cook has a great following in Sydney these
days, and when he landed Venetian Lady
(3 to 1) an easy winner of the Prospect
Handicap there were very hearty British
cheers. It was the Wolaroi mare’s third suc-
cessive triumph. Newsore was joint favorite
with her, but was not suited by Bartle’s hell-
for-leather style of riding—an ill-judged re-
version to his pony-racing days—and it was
Raisin (4 to 1) and Lord Romeo (12 to 1)
who chased the chestnut mare home, Raisin
■ —in trouble early—coming with a good run
when it was too late. Cook also rode Helen
of Troy (7 to 1) to victory in the Farm
Stakes, and was on Red Shadow, second to
the smart Gladioli (5 to 2), in the Nursery
Handicap.
Apprentice riders had the field to them-
selves in the May Handicap. The boy on
Blather (7 to 2) was caught napping at
the start, and the big Magpie gelding had no
chance after that; Waipori (8 to 1), a natty
little brown mare by Polycrates—Black
Eyes, ridden by William Kelso’s apprentice
Fellows, won nicely from the unlucky Tres-
silian (10 to 1) and Gwillian G. (6 to 1) ,
with Wedding Eve (4 to 1) next. This
mare should do better at Randwick with a
stronger lad. Pike, outriding the jockey on
Crown Area (5 to 1), got Lord Eudorus
home in the Casula Handicap. With the
riders reversed the gelding from Maoriland
would have won. Maoriland provides Aus-
tralia with noble specimens of the thorough-
bred, but it has never sent us a horseman
like Pike.
* * * *
For Canterbury Park on Saturday:
Flying Handicap: Magnetic; next, Gar-
rula.
Canterbury Handicap: Nan Kourgan;
next, Ilinchinbrook.
Campsie Handicap: Prince Colugo; next,
Speechmaker.
A DEAD NARK.
"This fellow fought like a tiger for twenty-five minutes before I landed him!"
“Fancy that; the aggravating little brute!"
George Lambert. According to report, Powell
did not back him, but someone put big money
on, and the price shortened to 6 to 1.
Marksman came a cropper through trying
to distance his opponents; George William
also fell, but was a long way out of his
ground at the time. If he hadn’t made heavy
contact with the second-last fence, Micro-
nesia probably would have won ; the mishap
to Micronesia enabled Mosstrooper, always
prominent, to regain control, and Micronesia
had to accept defeat. Poor old Minterne
labored in the rear for a mile and _a half
and then baulked. Present owner is Bob
Ferguson, who captured a race earlier in the
afternoon for one of his patrons with Pol-
thogue.
Two Williamstown winners, All Crimson
and Doradus, registered further successes at
the Valley. All Crimson (3 to 1) appro-
priated the Mount Alexander Handicap for
apprentice riders; .Doradus (4 to 1) gamely
cut down Adjong in the Keilor Handicap.
Nearing the post he hung in, but the jockey
ceased riding in order to straighten him. A
protest for interference was promptly dis-
missed—ft ought never to have been entered.
Zanibar shaped so indifferently that one mar-
vels at his having been supported from t to
1 down to half those odds.
* * * *
For Flemington on Saturday:—
York Hurdle: Arcadius; next, Lanilda.
Hopetoun Steeple : Chaumont; next, Sand-
ringham.
* * * T
R E ll' Hope owns a brilliant galloper
in Merab (Two—Liafail). Carrying 9st.
51b. and conceding lumps of weight to a
large field, the locally-bred three-year-old
won the Adelaide Racing Club s City Handi-
cap in dashing style from The Gay Muti-
neer and Prince Paladin, and ran the seven
furlongs in lmin. 261 sec. Favorite on the
machine, he paid £3 17s. for £1; lhe Gay
Mutineer’s div. was £2 4s. Jones was the
successful rider. Fourth Hand proved_ a
shocking disappointment in the. 1 arkside
Stakes, Lord Somers’s aristocratically-bred
English horse being beaten into third place
—at w.f.a., too—by Alfred the Great and
Kidaides. Holders of Alfred the Great
tickets collected £6 4s. for £l.
* * * *
The A.J.C. Spring meeting is already loom-
ing in the distance, and the club desires
owners and others interested to note that
nominations close on June 4.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
In one of the hardest-fought contests seen
at Sydney Stadium for a long time, Babe
Herman, a recently-arrived American,
stopped the victorious march of the New-
castle (N.S.W.) lightweight, Jack Roberts,
on Saturday night, the referee giving the
American the verdict in the 12th round.
Herman was making his first appearance,
and proved himself a master hand in all
departments. His blows are beautifully
timed, and the local lad put up a good per-
formance in standing up to him as long as
he did. For the first half-dozen rounds
Roberts attacked in his usual hurricane
fashion, and though many of his deadly right
swings failed to connect through the visitor’s
cleverness in getting inside them, enough
landed to cause Herman many anxious
moments. From the seventh round, how-
ever. Herman sized up his man, and, alter-
ing his tactics, gradually slowed him up
with short rights to body and jaw. A right
to the solar plexus dropped Roberts for nine
in the 10th. After Roberts had gone down
again twice in the 12th, Joe Wallis stopped
the business. Roberts; 9st. BJlb.; Herman,
9st. O^lb.
Melbourne’s previous experiences of two
Yanks in opposition had not been satisfac-
tory, but Saturday night’s clash between
bantams Pete Sarron and Pinkie Silverberg
(both Bst. 81b.) went a long way towards
effacing old memories. Pete adopted the
shock tactics that were so successful against
Glasson, and for a time it looked as though
he would end the bout early. As the bout
progressed, Pink dissipated this idea en-
tirely, and, boxing all over Sarron, soon
regained the lead. His generous left hook
filled Pete’s right eye, whilst the other was in
half-mourning. Pink was undoubtedly the
better boxer, but Sarron’s sheer persistency
prevailed, and there were no objections to a
verdict for him on points.
Footbrawl
The meeting of those old antagonists Gee-
long and Carlton drew a 30,000 crowd to
Carlton Oval on Saturday, a robust, exciting
game resulting. The visitors had the better
system and more speed and accuracy, but
the strenuous last quarter found them lack-
ing, Carlton sweeping them off their feet
in the last few minutes and winning with
73 points to Geelong’s 55. Collingwood’s
scientific methods achieved just enough
points to keep ’Roy underneath throughout
the game. ’Wood, 115 points; ’Roy, 59, was
the final tally. St. Kilda jumped on North
Melbourne with 121 points to 55; and Essen-
don downed South Melbourne after a strenu-
ous tussle, with 78 points to South’s 52.
Richmond’s Tigers, in a scrambling, force-
ful game, overcame Hawthorn by 118 points
to 77. The Footscray lads put up a good,
well-organised skirmish against Melbourne,
holding the Red Legs throughout but failing
to win—chiefly through their over-hasty for-,
ward play. At the finish the board stated:
Melb., 11 goals 9 behinds; ’Scray, 10 goals
15 behinds —75 points all.
* * * *
The first inter-State match of the season
under Australian rules was played between
N.S.W. and Queensland at Sydney Cricket
Ground on Saturday, the Northerners un-
expectedly winning by 62 (9-8) to 59 (8-11) .
The Queenslanders, most of whom learned
the game in their own State, showed much
the better combination, and their high mark-
ing was very effective. The eight Queensland
goals were divided among seven players, while
of the N.S.W. score Adams landed no less
than five. The next big game will be against
Victoria on the same ground on June 10.
* * * *
The third round of the Rugby Union com-
petition saw the leaders, Randwick, nar-
rowly escape defeat by Manly on the latter’s
ground after a stirring game. Scores were
6 (a try and penalty goal) to 5 (a try and
a goal). Y.M.C.A., with several of its stars
back, beat Western Suburbs 17-14 at St.
Luke’s, while University, with one side away
in Maoriland, achieved a meritorious victory
over Glebe-Balmain by 19-11. St. George
made a good showing against Northern
Suburbs at Chatswood, but were beaten
28-13, while the Police were beaten 20-14
by Eastern Suburbs at Hampden Oval. All
the men selected for the Queensland tour
turned out, most of them shaping well.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Rugby League was entertain-
ing its country players in Sydney last week,
and wound up with a series of games between
the country districts and the various metro-
politan clubs on Saturday as a preliminary
to a Country v. City match on the following
Monday. The big game of the day was the
meeting of the unbeaten metropolitan pre-
miers, South Sydney, and Newcastle. New-
castle won the same match last year, but
though they made an excellent showing, the
famous South Sydney finish was too much
for them, and they went down by 18 to. 5.
Bull, a solid full-back, made a great impres-
sion for Newcastle, and other country play-
ers strengthened their claims for represen-
tative honors. Scores were heavy in most of
the other games, but all the metropolitan
sides won save Balmain, which succumbed
to North Coast by 38-36.
(Continued on page ///.)
Mud spoilt the Aero Club’s sports at
Essendon (Vic.) on Saturday—at least as
far as the earthbound populace were con-
cerned. Still, the slush that circulated round
the ladies’ ankles and bogged the motor-
cars served as a gentle advertisement on the
advantages of aviation. Seventeen machines
started in the Derby, and all rose slowly
from the soaked ground, but cleared the top
of the ’drome without trouble. The course
was to Point Cook and back, 40 miles, and
in 18min. 7see. (118 m.p.h.) 11. C. Miller,
of Vic., was back in his Bristol Jupiter
DH6I, with the fastest time and the Derby
to his credit. The A. D. Handicap was run
at the same time, and a N. S. Welshman, A.
F. Stewart, in a DII6O Cirrus Mark 2, was
the winner. Four South Australian entrants
were absent, having alighted on a landing-
ground which was clearly marked on the
official charts but which has. lately been re-
converted to the uses of agriculture.
THE RACING SUN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The dawn ! It has a doubtful air ;
The laggard sun is slow in lifting •
His pallid and uncertain stare
Above the clouds so vaguely drifting;
The dubious mist is everywhere,
And shapes and thoughts are changing,
shifting.
But now the gay, ascending sun
The lingering wraiths of fog disperses;
Heartening warmth its way has won
Through autumn chill, and one rehearses
(Oh, the brave races horses run!)
Remembered lists of wins, reverses.
Now stands the shining sun at noon
And shadows all are disappearing;
Winners are plain (or will be soon)
So rapidly one’s brain is clearing,
And “books” become a patent boon
Sent for a punter’s profiteering.
Now grows the sun a shade less bright,
His face at moments faintly clouded;
This good thing wasn’t ridden right,
That certainty was vilely crowded,
And truth, that shone with steadfast light,
In strange, new doubt at times is shrouded.
And now the dour, declining sun
The lingering wisps of hope disperses;
Evening chill its way has won
Through autumn warmth, and one re-
hearses
(Ah, the strange races horses run!)
Remembered lists of Saxon curses.
The dusk! It has a dismal air,
The disappearing sun is sifting
With sullen and averted stare
The western clouds forlornly drifting;
And through the mist ghosts everywhere
Of bets, and debts, their heads are lifting.
VICTORIA.
HASEN.


55
55
I?
N
IS—
•• I
m
Utu
-F
% ■
y i i
Xdbt
) ; «LV
'’Hvi.
&
M
•- V- f [ j
?,V5
p . •
f *a
m*
»
pn~T
s
WX''
&
m
*%, Vl'
£ •' M M
> J;V
S.VA-;
I
>s
iHftiSj/
S-7#
*
K
f
If:
$
•W’%
P
«S*
Til
:- <
•lis
n T *
vTfl]
ifTmftmirucuai!;
fit
% /
m
?v4 l»
itl
}%»•
e
i.
■ .1- k ■- sj
Sfcv
'
r^-
""I,
fty-.
f >tm
) -■V'V
/ !&>§
.I", S-./v
w¥i
\ \\VsS
i
<-"i
y/J'
m.
% : ‘ { VAj
taylor IMC
SERVICE Jm\\\V^’
, . - >5 /
#1
saa
m
W 7
IB
V/////
c
M
c
O
c
O
r?
D
Wmm
Xk
s
o
;
s*
&
dt<Q
750 - 1 on Presses, maintain-
ing accuracy to 1/10,000 of
an inch, form the faultless steel
panels of a Holden Body.
Thus the most advanced
methods known to science
produce a graceful contour,
faultless mouldings and smooth-
ness of surface.
Perfect panels provide a solid
foundation for the durable
lacquer, ensuring the permanent
lustre of a Holden Body.
You will recognise a Holden Body by its
superiority due to the adoption of World
Quality Methods.
sd
The emblem of world
quality in motor bodies
HOLDEN’S
MOTOR. BODY BUILDERS
L I /VV IXED
ADELAIDE, MELBOURNE, SYDNEY AND BRISBANE


NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRISBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Service a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
*
Address Manager—
ROWES, LiTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
Accommodation
160.
Central,
Comfortable,
Convenient,
5 Mts. G.P.O,
Excellent
Cuisine,
Billiards,
Dancing.
ORIENTAL HOTEL
(No License)
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET.
TARIFF:
£3/3/- to
£4/4/-
Weekly,
11/6 to 13/6.
Room & B’fast,
8/6 to 9/6
FL2034
F 3575
Daily,
TUDOR
ACCUMULATORS
for Reliability and Long Life.
Australasian Office-
TUDOR ACCUMULATOR CO., LTD.,
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
W. W. GREENER
GUN
Value £lOO
will be shot for at the
MELBOURNE
GUN CLUB
Commonwealth
Championship Meeting in
July.
FOR PARTICULARS APPLY TO
F. TUBB,
' Leeds Street, Canterbury, Vic.
Puff;- My game is improving,
WONDERFULUV
I PLAYED WITH GUS, ALGY AND
PERCY.
AND WON FOUR LOVE SETS."
MUFF:-"STRUTH, YOU MUST
HAVE HAN A SQUASHY
AFTERNOON"
Footbrawl
“Athletic Reserve”: The Sydney Univer-
sity XV opened their M.L. tour in great
style by beating Victoria College, the M.L.
University champions, by 6 to 3 at Welling-
ton. The visitors played the free, open game
which the Waratahs have made famous, and
greatly impressed the knowledgeable Maori-
landers. An indication of the wealth of fine
players in N.S.W. just now is seen in the
praise bestowed on D. Kennedy, of Sydney
Uni., as one of the best centres seen in Maori-
land for years, and one worthy to rank with
A. E. Cook, the famous All-Black. In
Sydnev he is a reserve grade player.
* * * ' <t>
“Stand Off”: The Queensland Rugby
Union side went back to Brisbane well satis-
fied with its Sydney visit, though both the
matches played were lost by a considerable
margin, the Maroons going down in the game
against a Metropolitan team by 42 to 26.
Mets. were very little inferior to the first
State side, and the visitors should take com-
fort from this. Two games will he played
in Brisbane in the beginning of June, and
a very powerful N.S.W. side has gone up,
including 10 of the Waratahs. As the
Queenslanders have the use of the Exhibition
Ground, there should be a first-class attend-
ance, and with the experience gained in their
first games the home side may be expected
to make an even better showing than in
Sydney.
* ❖ * H*
“Botham”: The Victorian Rugby Union is
getting ready for its trip to Sydney in. mid-
June, and with memories of the stiff game
given N.S.W. in Melbourne last year is feel-
ing very confident of its chances. The game
looks like becoming a permanency in Mel-
bourne, and the acquisition of the Exhibition
Oval is a great help. The Union sees a
chance of establishing it in the G. P.
Schools, for the professional trend of the
national code to-day causes many G.P.S. boys
to drop football for good when schooldays
are over. Arrangements are being made to
bring over a couple of fifteens from the Syd-
ney schools to play exhibition games. There
is no better or brighter Rugby played in Aus-
tralia than by such schools as The King’s or
Sydney Grammar, and such a trip would do a
lot to popularise it in Melbourne schools.
* * * *
“Old Cap.”: For the first time since 1919,
when an Australian team went up against
the famous A.I.F. side, a national team will
be seen in action against the All Blacks on
Sydney Cricket Ground on June 29. The
home side will be selected from N.S.W.,
Queensland and Victoria by a committee of
three with a chairman having a casting vote.
The chairman will be T. H. Bosward, who
may be fairly credited with starting the
Waratah principle that the best defence in
football is attack. A. C. Wallace, the Oxford,
Scotland and N.S.W. three-quarter, will be
the N.S.W. member of the committee. J.
Flynn, who won his Australian cap in 1912-
13, is the Queensland nominee, while H. P.
Penwell, hon. sec. of the Victorian Rugby
Union, will represent the Cabbage Gardeners.
* * * *
“Gate”: No one has ever accused the
N.S.W. Rugby League of being a shrinking
violet, but its latest exhibition of “nerve”
takes the cake. This consists of an impas-
sioned appeal in the League press for the
immediate dissolution of the Sydney Cricket
Ground Trust —the execution of the members
is not actually insisted on, though this may
be inferred from the tone of the article.
It appears that the Trust earned the oppro-
brium of all right-minded persons when it
shooed the League off the ground and leased
it to the amateur Rugby Union, and it is
pointed out with tears that the change has
resulted in a considerable loss of money to
the Trust. Some might say that to be rid
of the League was a matter worth paying
for. The Trust certainly does need revision.
It should be made impossible for the trustees
to ever again lease an area granted for pur-
poses of amateur sport to a blatant profes-
sional organisation.
* * * *
“Swing th’ Boot”: In spite of strenuous
denials by the Queensland Rugby League and
its N.S.W. backer, the split between the
Brisbane and State Leagues has landed the
latter fairly in the consomrnd. W. Long,
M.H.R. for Lang (N.S.W.), gave the show
away after a visit to Queensland the other
day when he told a Sydney interviewer that
the Brisbane body had the best grounds as
well as most of the best players, and what
is even more important, the public following.
In the Queensland League matches he saw
there were only two players of any class —the
veteran Gorman and another.
* ❖ * ♦
“Fitzcray”: The very wealthy Victorian
Australian F'ootball League has not erred
on the side of foolish generosity when the
terms of the engagement of a new secretary
are considered. The successful applicant
must furnish a bond of £2OOO to begin with.
He can work for no one but the League, a
huge organisation. He has to handle and
account for all the League’s money, attend
multitudinous mettings, conduct correspond-
ence, order, supplies and pay any assistance
he may consider necessary out of his salary.
This is to be “not less” than £5OO per annum.
By the look of things it won’t be much more,
either.
Racquet and Bawl
“Cut Shot” : What promises to be a treat
for tennis followers is the projected meeting
in an exhibition match of Jack Crawford
and Australia’s former champion J. O.
Anderson. Little has been seen of the latter
in action since he turned professional, though
just before the last Davis Cup team left for
England he and Crawford met at Rushcutter
Bay in a three-set match, the youngster
winning by two sets to one. The coming
match, on June 22, will be over five sets, and
Crawford’s ability to stay over a long course
is likely to be thoroughly tested.
* * * *
“Pecksniff”: One cannot be too careful
even in these days of feminine uplift.. The
British women’s team to meet America in
the Wightman Cup at New York will be
minus the services of Eileen Bennett. Eng-
land’s foremost tennis flapper, because her
mamma is unable to chaperon her, and papa
shudders at the thought of his daughter going
abroad unguarded. We do things better in
Australia. The last team of women we sent
away had a male tennis official as chaperon
and manager, and no one even fainted at the
idea.
* * * *
FRev. Knucklebone”: Golfers are not the
only sportsmen who indulge in freak methods
for a wager or otherwise (B. 24/4/’29). It
is recorded that the famous Peter Latham,
probably the greatest professional royal
tennis player the world has seen, once chal-
lenged a rival to play him for a stake, the
other using the ordinary racquet and Peter
the old-fashioned soda-water bottle. Latham
made such a good business of it that several
other matches of the sort followed, which
were also won with ease.
The Watermen
“Slide”: Mosman (N.S.W.) R. C., never
inclined to hide its light under a bushel, is
feeling very bucked over the victory of its
crew in the' King’s Cup, and has been patting
itself on the back and remarking what a
bonser sort of a bloke it is. To celebrate
the victory the cox, R. J. Daley, is to be
presented with the rudder of the boat in
which the race was won, and each member
of the crew with the oar he used, while coach
“Ossie” Wood will take the seat honored
during the race by stroke, Les Callaghan.
All are to be presented with due form and
ceremony at a jamboree the date of which
has yet to be fixed.
>J: sic
“Blade”: Glebe Rowing Club, the second
oldest of its kind in N.S.W., attained its
jubilee this month, having been founded in
1879, over a decade later than Sydney, the
senior of them all. The old club has fallen
on rather evil days of late years as far as
rowing is concerned, and has made a poor
showing at the regattas. It has now under-
gone a thorough reorganisation, bought new
boats, and made rfp its mind to go for the
gloves in future events. Immediate objec-
tives are the recapture of the junior pennant,
and the extinction of University, which has
of late walloped it in its own particular
specialty, the “premiership” of Blackwattle
Bay.
* * * *
“Stretcher”: The invitation from N.S.W.
to Maoriland oarsmen requesting the atten-
dance of an All Black eight at the next
N.S.W. championships has not been received
with the enthusiasm expected on this side.
M. is of the opinion that, since it sent
crews across to Sydney in 1925 and to Mel-
bourne in 1927-28, Australian organisations
might have the courtesy to return the com-
pliment. On several occasions Maoriland has
asked a N.S.W. eight to cross the Tasman,
but the Welshmen have persistently dodged
the invitation. There is a good deal to be
said for the M.L. point of view; and the
Australian oarsmen would do well to screw
up their courage and make the plunge.
>jc :Js sfc sfc
“Harold Hardupp”: Mention of the pre-
sence of Edmund (“Toby”) Barton in the
N. four in the first inter-colonial rowing
match on the Yarra (B. 10/4/’29) recalls
the fact that Toby was also one of the two
vice-presidents of the Rugby Union formed
in 1874. Barton represented the University
on a conference, and also won a foot-
race or two, and competed in an inter-State
chess championship.
The Nineteenth Hole
“The Mcllaggis” : Once more was Britain’s
tail twisted by American golfers when Turn-
esa defeated the English professional Jolly
in the final of the Thousand Guineas pro-
fessional golf tournament at Moortown, near
Leeds, by 1 up at the 37th. British hopes
were high when Duncan outed Walter Hagen
in the match play, and increased as Yank
after Yank dropped out. Jolly had the game
in the bag at the 34th, when he was 2 up,
but missed a sitter of a putt at the next,
leaving Turnesa to wipe out his lead at that
and the 36th.
* * * *
“Divot Digger” : Walter Hagen can boast
a wonderful record for consistency as a
golfer. His four wins in the British open
championship averaged 296 strokes for the
72 holes, or only a fraction over four strokes
a hole. He has won the American professional
championship five times—four years in suc-
cession—and has taken the open event twice,
in addition to being runner-up or semi-
finalist on several occasions.
$ ’4*
“Hoylake”: Associate golfers the world
over squealed in delight when it was recently
announced that Joyce Wethered, “the Lenglen
of golf,” had decided to reappear in the
British Ladies’ Championship, after standing
down for four years. ITer last appearance
was at Troon, when she beat Cecily Leitch
at the 37th hole and was mobbed by the
huge and excited crowd, with the result that
she fainted. However, there was nothing
wrong with her nerve this time, for she
beat the American championette, Glcnua
Collett, in the final, after the American had
been five up at the end of the first nine holes,
by three up and one to play. Two Aus-
tralian girls, the Misses Lascelles and
Nankivell, of Victoria, survived to the third
round.
* * * =t=
“Her Jong” : If a publication forwarded by
the South African Railway Department is
correct, the Afrikanders have become fright-
fully addicted to golf. The white population
of the Union is well under 2,000,000, yet the
country supports no fewer than 240 golf clubs.
Leaving out children in arms, the very aged,
and the inhabitants of the gaols and lunatic
asylums, it would seem that pretty nearly
every Afrikander is a golf-addict. Under
the circumstances it is fortunate that there
is a good supply of Kaffirs to act as caddies.
,** * *
“Claypan”: The recent British open golf
championship is the first for some years in
which Australia has not been represented by
a player of note —indeed, there was only a
single entrant from this country, and lie an
unknown Victorian. A good deal of dis-
satisfaction with the lethargy of the Aus-
tralians has been expressed in consequence,
that somnolent body, the Golf Council, having
never lifted a finger-tip in the course of its
existence to assist or ensure Australian repre-
sentation. N.S.W. golfers are consequently
talking of taking the matter into their own
hands.
* * ‘-H *
“Brassey”: An interesting point of golf
law cropped up on a Sydney course re-
cently. Following up his drive, a player
found a brown snake cuddling the pill. Los-
ing his self-possession he struck the snake
several times with the iron he was carry-
ing, with the result that his opponent claimed
the addition of several strokes to his card.
To this he demurred, but there is no doubt
the claimant was well within his rights.
There is the question of grounding the club
to be considered also, to say nothing of
whether the player should not have lifted the
snake.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: Port Moresby, in Papua, has
set some swankier places a good example
by forming a public golf club, the. Govern-
ment having granted an area for the pur-
pose. This is the first institution of the
kind in those parts, and great interest is
being taken in the scheme by the local
nobility and gentry, the site for the Nine-
teenth Hole having already been selected.
* * ❖ *
“The Bat”: The ferocious Queensland
climate evidently agrees with S. Larard, the
secretary of the Mitchell (Q.) Rabbit Board.
Just recently he celebrated his 82nd birthday
and then, to show the pessimists that he is
far from a physical wreck, he played a round
of 40 holes on the Charleville golf links.
* * * *
“W.R.K.”: There is no new blood in the
Maoriland Kirk-Windeyer Cup team to meet
the best of Aussie in Victoria this year. The
personnel is Sloan Morpeth, T. H. Horton,
Dr. Ken Ross and the famous old-time match-
winner Arthur Duncan. Big golf matches
are won on the greens, and this year Duncan
has shown atrocious form with the putter.
Maorilanders are hoping that Duncan will
have his touch back by the time the Cup
match is played. With Duncan no better
than he was last time in Australia (and
he went there after a wonderful burst of
form in Maoriland), the team will have no
room for leeway.
(Continued on next page.)


Ensure efficient running by fitting B.E.S.
SPARK PLUGS. A type for every car, truck,
tractor, cycle, aeroplane and marine engine.
Fully guaranteed. All garages. Price 4/6.
Manufactured by
Australian Spark Plugs Pty., Ltd.
562 Spencer Street, Melbourne, C.i.
’Phones: F 4947, F 5961.
Chain s--Chains ■-Chains- Chains
II
Silent Drive
Chains.
Australian-made—better than Imported
Support Your Secondary Industries
Non-skid, hand-forged chains for a Ford to a
7-ton truck.
Chains for Collieries.
Chains for Brickyards.
Pit-cage chains.
Lashing chains.
Messenger and Steering-wheel chains.
Sling, Snigging, Plough and leading chains.
Roller and Conveyor chains of all descriptions.
Mooring and Ships’ Cable chains.
Made from best Staffordshire iro.t.
The only complete chain works in the Common
wealth.
All chains tested to Lloyd’s standard and
certificates issued.
BLOOMERS CHAINS, LTD.,
BRISBANE.
f
FOR MOPE
MILES
TO THE
GALLON
Wholesale Agents and Stockists:
BENNETT & WOOD, LTD.,
284 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Car and Cycle
“Pore du Chemin”: “Speed intoxication”
has long been recognised in connection
with motoring, and a curious incident in
Paris has called fresh attention to it. In
one of the Grand Prix races a car travelling
at 100 m.p.h. burst a tyre. To escape worse,
the driver slowed down to 40 m.p.h. as a
preliminary to pulling up for repairs. The
change in pace was so strongly marked that
the mechanic lost all sense of relativity, and
leaped from the car under the impression
it was practically at a standstill. H'e took
such a horrible toss that he spent the next
few weeks in the repair shop.
* i\i $ Hi
“Garry”: One of the knotty engineering
problems that had to be solved by the de-
signers of Segrave’s record-breaking car, the
Golden Arrow, was the provision of brakes
that would bring the car to rest within a
couple of miles after attaining 230 m.p.h.
At that speed, if unbraked, it would run
four miles on its own momentum. To apply
brakes at a speed of close on four miles a
minute meant the generation of heat on the
brake-drums to the extent of 2000 deg. Fall.
A lining had to be found that would dissi-
pate this heat without charring and with-
out causing the brakes to collapse. After
tests, a suitable material was eventually
found, and fulfilled all requirements. The
same material was applied to the multiple-
disc clutch, which, to avoid slip when trans-
mitting 900 li.p. at 3000 r.p.m., had to be
under a pressure of 12001 b. A vacuum-servo
system was used to release the clutch.
3 3 3 3
“Disc Clutch”: As was to be expected,
the six-wheel motor-car chassis is fast gain-
ing favor with European motorists, and
several makes are being put on the market.
One English firm has patented a form of
four-wheeled bogie for the rear-end of a
six-wheeled chassis in which three differen-
tials are incorporated, this permitting the
employment of the regular bevel-driven axle.
In combination with the now increasingly
popular front drive, the bogie design, with
its additional comfort and security over all
types of track, would seem to have a future
before it. To Australian motorists who like
to go off the beaten tracks, such an arrange-
ment would seem ideal.
3 3 3 3
“Niloc”: Like “Frigidaire” (B. 8/5/’29)
I hae ma doots respecting that 120 m.p.h. on
tin- ice by the American. Harley. However,
“F.” errs in quoting 101 m.p.h. as a world’s
record for motor-cycles. The English rider
C. F. Temple is credited with a flying mile
at 120.5 m.p.h., 50 miles at 105.11 m.p.h. and
100 at 101.96 m.p.h. Further, a couple of
months ago G. E. Nott, on a 499 c.c. Rudge,
managed to cram just over 200 miles into
2hr. at Brooklands on a single-cylinder ’bus.
Hr- ❖ Hi
“Toe-clip”: It isn’t always alcohol that
makes a motorist stagger about and talk
incoherently after a smash-up. Shock or
a bump on the head will produce all the
symptoms of intoxication. I had my first
experience of that at the outset of my cycle-
racing career. It was* during training on
Lancaster Park track, Christchurch (M.L.).
One of the trainees slowed up and cut across
the track to go to the dressing-sheds, and a
friend of mine, an 18-year-oldster who had
never had a taste of alcohol in liis life,
barged straight into him. My friend cata-
pulted upwards, heels above head, and landed
on his head on the grass oval. He got up
at once, staggered around a bit, and then
rushed up to a total stranger and smote him
on the nose. For an hour his speech was
slurred and his language violent. Then he
was very sick; went to sleep for an hour,
and woke up perfectly normal with not the
slightest recollection of his accident or its
sequel.
3 3 3 3
“Hothain”: How is it that Victoria wipes
the eyes of the other States in the matter of
cycling, and especially of road-racing? The
season for the latter is now in full swing,
and every week-end sees a couple of long-
distance events at least being contested on
the roads around Melbourne. The amateurs
and professionals are catered for alike, and
it is quite common to get an entry of 100
riders or more for an event over 20 miles
or so. Indeed, in one event for amateurs
held at West Footscray the other day, entries
for the different sections of the event totalled
270. Nowhere else in Australia are such
big musters seen, while, with the exception
of the Goulburn-to-Sydney race, all the im-
portant long-distance cycle-runs for amateurs
and professionals alike are Victorian.
Miscellaneous
“Duce”: With reference to the statement
by “Ace” (B. 15/5/’29) that the game of
fives “has never been introduced into the
Great Public Schools of Australia,” I would
like to inform “Ace” that the game was
played on two courts at St. Peter’s Collegiate
School, Adelaide, as far back as 1890.
3 3 3 3
“Ride Off”: Those who cling to the time-
honored belief that polo originated in Persia
have got a rude shock from the discovery
that it is, literally, “a Chinaman’s game.”
Recent excavations in the Flowery Land
have resulted in the recovery from a tomb
dating back far beyond the "Persian empire
of little clay figures of mounted polo players,
and this is now accepted as evidence that
the people who invented gunpowder and
the compass were also first in the field with
the galloping game. Many of the figurines
were those of women players, so the modern
female who prides herself on her up-to-date-
ness in taking up polo is really only in the
“also-ran” class.
3 3 3 3
“Hamer”: The argument which George
Gray (who is now in China giving instruc-
tion in billiards) opened in England when
he tried to break down the English objection
to the use of composition balls has finally
been decided in favor of the Australian view-
point. Two years ago the crystallate balls
were adopted for the British amateur cham-
pionship, and next year will De used in the
professional tourney. Chamjrion Willie
Smith has declared in favor of compo. balls
after declaring that he would not play with
anything but the ivories. Incidentally, the
man to make the first big break on the cry-
stallate ball—another compo. ball had pre-
viously been used by Gray—was Frank
Smith, now marker at the Sydney Australia
Hotel; he made 548 against Hugh Rumble
in 1906. Frank was the instructor of school-
teacher Hayes, who won the Empire billiards
championship in South Africa.
* i\i *
“Spike”: The first meeting between
Britisli and German teams of athletes since
the war, w r as held at Stamford Bridge the
other day. The Achilles Club, a combina-
tion of Oxford and Cambridge athletes, met
a team selected from the Berliner and Deut-
scher Clubs and won by 61 points to 41.
Australia was represented by the Queensland
Rhodes Scholar Harrison, who was third in
the long jump with 21ft. 6)in. The surprise
of the meeting was the defeat, of the Olympic
hurdler Lord Burghley in the 120 yards
hurdles by the German Trossbach. The time,
15sec., is three-fifths of a second short or
the world’s record put up by American
E. J. Thompson nine years ago. Burghley.
who was attempting a come-back after his
retirement, has never managed to record the
even figures.
“Bias”: The close of the official bowling
season, is a reminder that the Australian
championship carnival completed its quarter
century of existence this year. It was
started in 1904, when the Waverley
(N.S.W.) club organised the first meeting,
the State association having shied at the
proposal. The blue ribbon of the carnival,
the singles, was appropriately won by a
Waverley bowler, E. E. Wahlberg, who
defeated H. L. Hyland, of Victoria, in the
final. Quite a lot of those who took part in
that meeting are' still on the mat rolling ’em
up.
3 3 3 3
Vernon Royle, whose death in England is
announced, was one of the most famous of
the parsons who have figured so prominently
in English cricket. Though 75 at the finish,
his name is still a household word among
cricketers as probably the finest cover-point
L. MURPHY, one of the oldest and best
footballers 'playing with Collingwood
in the Victorian League.
the game has known, even reckoning Aus-
tralian Syd Gregory and our recent visitor,
Jack Hobbs. Lancashire was his county,
while he figured many times for Oxford and
the Gentlemen. It was while bowling against
him for the Players that his fellow Lancas-
trian, the irrepressible Jack Crossland, is
credited with remarking as he clean bowled
him: “Weel, down goas tha poolpit, ony
waay.” Australia saw him with Lord Harris’s
team in 1878-79.
“Lansdowne”: The most fatuous comment
I have seen on _ the “bigger stumps” ex-
periment in English cricket was that of an
Australian weekly, which expressed sym-
pathy with the makers of sporting goods on
the ground of the A : ast quantity of under-
sized wickets they would have left on their
hands. Considering the immense profits these
people must be making on wares that have
doubled, trebled and sometimes even quad-
rupled in price since prewar days, I doubt if
T. WELSBY, president of the Queensland
Rugby Union, and himself an old rep-
resentative player.
they would be entitled to sympathy for any-
thing they couldn’t have foreseen. The pre-
sent innovation is on such a small scale that
its effects must be negligible. The experi-
ment is being tried on the dog, as it
were, tin* dog in this case being the English
counties—a dozen and a half clubs out of
tens of thousands. Even the counties use
the enlarged “timber yard” only when play-
ing one another; it isn’t employed, for
instance, against the South Africans now in
England. Iff the change does become general
-—-as I hope it will —-and stumps become even
wider and higher, the process will be a
gradual one, giving the makers of sporting
goods plenty of time to look ahead.
3 3 3 3
“Gabba": The Queensland cricket auth-
orities, while reporting a profit of nearly a
thousand pounds for the season just over,
are complaining of a marked falling off in
attendances at the Sheffield Shield matches.
That is the invariable rule when an English
team is touring Australia, but there may be
specific reasons. The atrocious fielding of the
Northerners in almost every match last sea-
son is probably one of them. More than one
match was thrown away by the inability of
the side to hold simple catches. That sort
of thing palls on the most enthusiastic
follower of cricket, and is reflected in the
gate receipts.
3 3 3 3
“Sliinguard”: The Australian hockey
players are getting ready for their invasion
of Maoriland in July, probably topping off
with a descent on Suva if time permits.
The team is to be selected by June 10, a selec-
tor from each of the five hockey-playing
States making the choice. Those able to under-
take the trip must have their nominations in
by June 8 to be considered, so there is not
much time for making up minds. The game
has now got a firm hold in Australia, and
though the All Blacks have had the better
of exchanges in past contests, this year’s side
from Australia is out to prove) that they are
not invincible.
“Splosh”: The revival of water polo in
Australia during the past two seasons has
proved so successful that an attempt is to
be made to organise a team for the next
Olympiad at Los Angeles. Victoria and
N.S.W. are the strongholds of the game at
present, but it is being taken up in Queens-
land and South Australia, with the result
that both these States are expected to enter
for the inter-State Regal Cup tourney next
season. By the time the Olympiad date
comes round there should be material for a
strong team. Strong it will need to be, for
American and European swimmers have
specialised in the sport for years.
❖ si* i’fi *
“Hayband” : The hare paddock at Ivyabram
(Vic.) coursing enclosure has an Bft. 2in.
high galvanised-iron fence on one side. Hares
escape through Monier piping at the foot.
Recently, after “Puss” had skidded through,
a greyhound took a short run and sailed
over the points at the top. The hares easily
beat him in the brush, and a few minutes
later he planed in again. Not a record, but
an astonishing performance.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Runa”: Those who patrol the beaches
in search of ambergris may be interested to
learn the recent Subritzky find, near Darga-
ville (M.L.), realised slightly under £2 per
ounce. The lump weighed 2721 b., and the
total payment to the three finders (it was
their second windfall) was over £BOOO.
❖ * * s
“Hugh Stone”: Stagnation sits heavily on
Newcastle, so long the chief coal centre of
the Commonwealth. Looking over Port
Hunter, from the entrance at Nobby’s to
beyond the vomiting smoke-stacks of the
8.11. P. steelworks, my eyes rest on a scene
of desolation such as I have never known
in my long acquaintance with the port. On
the eastern side of Carrington, once a busy
hive of coal-trimmers, there is a long line
of idle cranes on wharves that have not seen
“a 60-miler” for months. On the western
side it is the same story, except that here
and there is a big oversea vessel taking
bunker coal only. What a contrast to the
days of the windjammer, when you stood on
the hills above the city and saw a forest of
masts of the vessels loading coal for ports
across the Pacific!
❖ rjc *
“Bill Ding” : Australian hardwood sleepers
are meeting with severe competition in
India in the form of the cast-iron metal-
sleeper. This has a life, as at present made,
of 30 years, but it is expected that improve-
ments will raise this to 50 years, as against
12 years for Australian hardwood. The price
paid for the iron is 13s. 6d., and for the
hardwood 11s. 6d.
>!« s*e % r*:
“Ex-Grocer” : Some of the wide differences
between prices charged by the cash-and-
carries and piggly-wigglies compared with
those of the family-trade shops may be ex-
plained by the savings the former make on
delivery, book debts and rapid turnover, but
not all. I have paid these respective rates:
jam, 104 d. and Is. 3d.; butter, Is. lid. and
2s. 2d.; soup, sj)d. and 84d.; prunes, Is. and
Is. 5d.; jar cheese, Is. and Is. 2d.; bacon,
Is. 7d. and 2s. 2d.; matches, s|d. and Is.
These are for brands and cuts commercially
equal—the old wheeze about better quality
does not work, in the light of my inside
knowledge. Some prices, as will be seen,
vary as much as 55 per cent. Not even
cash-and-carries work without profit, so there
must be a nice cut somewhere for someone.
❖ * * *
“W.P.D.”: The average value per bale of
wool sold at the last Brisbane! sales was
about £2O 4s. 6d., a drop of 15 per cent,
since the sales of November, 1028. Take
this in conjunction with a recent statement
by the chairman of the Geelong Chamber of
Commerce to the effect that the average
cost of production of a bale of wool in Aus-
tralia is £l9, and it will be seen that the situa-
tion is far from reassuring. Woolgrowers
ought willingly to contribute 2s. per bale to
build up the fund for scientific research
initiated by the Selling Brokers’ Association.
Even Queensland growers, badly hit though
they have been, should contrive to do their
bit.
❖ Hfi * ❖
“D.” : It is interesting to learn from the
trade that “Australian choicest unsalted
butter in London is 1625. to 1645. per cwt.
and Australian choicest butter in Sydney is
1965. per cwt.” Yet I can go into any but
the cheapest restaurants in Sydney and get
practically unlimited supplies of butter with
my meals, whereas in London the charge
at such places as Gattis’, the Cock (Fleet-
street) and the Cheshire cheese is 2d. a pat.
A similar economy is noticeable in hotels
and boarding-houses. The above revelation
on the subject of prices has had the effect
of filling me with gratitude towards our
Australian restaurateurs, without entirely
dispelling a suspicion I have long held that
most of those who run eating-places in Lon-
don are shameless profiteers.
3 3 3 3
“Gelt” : The Copra Ordinance (1928) which
came into force in Mandated New Guinea at
the beginning of the year is a step in the
right direction. In the past copra exported
from these islands was usually looked upon
with a certain amount of suspicion by con-
tinental buyers owing to the poor class of
some of the trade (and even some of the
plantation) product. Inspectors have now
been appointed to examine all copra before
shipment and ensure that it is up to stand-
ard. This is a leaf taken from Samoa’s
administrative book.
3 3 3 3
“Arthur R.” : There is sound sense in the
innovation of having telegraph messengers
to meet trains at important wayside stations,
such as Ballarat and Seymour, and collect
telegrams from passengers. It will save the
railway operators many hours’ work, and the
postal accountants much labor in apportion-
ing the amount of each message between the
Railway Department and the P.M.G. Some-
times as many as a hundred messages are
dispatched, from each of which the Rail-
Department demands its quota.


astS^
it
RA
OR
NOW NEATLY CASED at same price!
A strongly-made grained-leather case is now provided with every Plum
Razor, at no increase in cost. With its blade set to perfection—guaran-
teed and kept in order for two years free—the Plum Razor shaves cleanly,
easily, quickly—leaves the most delicate skin smooth and comfortable.
Black Vulcanite Handle 12/6 each
Xylonite Ivory Grain Handle 15/6 „
Real Ivory Handle 21/- „
Satin-lined double ease free with pair.
7-day Sets—7 Razors in Case.
Black, 85/-; Xylo, 100/-; Ivory, 140/-
Post free to any address.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
FPLI -
Decidedly Distinctive ~
and Ulosl Comfortable
“Merino-Knit”
Swearers and
Cardigans al-
waysmeetyour
critical taste in
Knitted Sports
Wear. The de-
signs afe strik-
ingly attractive
and the quality
superb! Just
what you wish
for wear in the
home or the
office, at golf
or tennis.
Flawlessly
Knitted, for
JTlen of T asle
&
m
m
I
1
W
RAMENO
EMNO-KNIf
" RAMENO ” Brand
Sweaters & Cardigans
Made Exclusively by the MERINO WOOLLEN MILLS
PXY., LTD., Specialists in Men’s High-Grade Sweaters
and Cardigans, Half Ilose and Golf Hose.
ALL QOOD MERCERS STOCK MERINO-KNIThTDEAR
d
■WINCHESTER
TRADE MARK
Rifles are
fast, accurate,
dependable arms
WINCHESTER .22 caliber
rifles and ammunition are
made with the same care and atten-
tion to shooting results as Winches-
ter high power rifles and ammunition.
Always use Winchester ammunition
in Winchester rifles —they are made
for each other.
SAFE—SURE ACCURATE
For sale by dealers everywhere
WINCHESTER
TRADE MARK
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS CO.
New Haven, Coon.. U. S. A.
fsd
f
For Sale.
Auxiliary Schooner For Sale.
DOYAL ENDEAVOR, 60-ton; length,
*'■ 76ft.: beam, 18ft.; draught, Bft. 6in.;
60-h.p. Skandia crude-oil engine, installed
1925; speed, 7 knots; carrying capacity, 45
tons dead weight.
This handsome vessel, thoroughly well
found in every respect, and well known in the
Solomon Islands as a splendid sailer, will
be available for inspection in a few weeks
at Samarai, Papua.
Price, £3500.
For further particulars apply owners: —
MALAYTA CO., LTD.,
72 King Street, Sydney.
Telegraphic Address, “Malayta, Sydney.”
Missing Friends.
OMITH (TOM DICKINSON), working at
Small Arms Factory, Litligow, 1917;
in 1912 residing at 126 Flinders Street,
Melbourne, will hear something to his advan-
tage if he (or any person with information
as to his present address) will write
STANTON, ATKINSON & BIRD, Solici-
tors, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
TOIIN FRANCIS WALLACE.—If this
J should meet the eye of John Francis Wal-
lace, formerly of Wurruk Wurruk, near Sale,
in Victoria, he is requested to communicate
with Messrs. STAVELEY & STIRLING,
Solicitors, Foster Street, Sale, from whom
he will hear to his advantage.
LIOWARD— DAVID EDGAR HOWARD,
** or anyone knowing his whereabouts,
please communicate with the undersigned.
Interest in his mother’s estate. A. A.
HOWARD, 14 Prospect Road, Summer Hill,
Sydney.
TOIIN RYA' 'fTN RYAN, nephew
J of Willi... .. late of Ballyhurst,
Killarnpy, Victoria, will communicate with
the undersigned, he will hear of something
to his advantage.
J. W. POWLING,
Solicitor, Port Fairy.
Legal Notice.
WILLIAM DYER JAMIESON.
IN THE MATTER of the Trust Disposi-
A tion and Settlement and Codicil of
WILLIAM JAMIESON, formerly of
Edinburgh, Scotland, Fruiterer, Deceased.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN, in pur-
suance of an appointment by his Lordship
the Right Honorable Lord Murray, of the
PETITION dated the Thirteenth day of
November, One thousand nine hundred and
twenty-eight, of KEITH WILLIAM Mac-
GREGOR JAMIESON and KENNETH
JAMIESON, presented unto the Right
Honorable the Lords of Council and Ses-
sion, at Edinburgh, Scotland, under The
Presumption of Life Limitation (Scotland)
Act 1891 (54 and 55 Viet. Cap. 29), on the
facts as therein set out to find as follows,
namely:—
THAT the said William Dyer Jamieson
has disappeared; that the Eighteenth day of
December, One thousand nine hundred and
twenty-one, was the last date on which he
was known to be alive, and that he died on
the said Eighteenth day of December, One
thousand nine hundred and twenty-one; or, if
not, to find that the said William Dyer
Jamieson must be presumed to have died
exactly seven years after the date on which
he was last known to be alive, and that the
said William Dyer Jamieson must be pre-
sumed to have died on the Eighteenth day
of December, One thousand nine hundred
and tw T ent.y-eight.
ANY PERSON knowing the whereabouts
of or any information concerning WILLIAM
DYER JAMIESON, formerly a member of
the Australian Imperial Expeditionary
Forces, whose last known place of abode
was at Mosman, Sydney, New South Wales,
in the year One thousand nine hundred and
twenty-one, but who is believed to have
been at or near Coif’s Harbor, in the State
of New South Wales, on the Eighteenth day
of December, One thousand nine hundred and
twenty-one, is requested to communicate with
the undersigned.
WILLAN & COLLES,
Solicitors,
104 Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
X
You can Wipe the Mort*
gage Off your House.
Possess Insurance, and effect a
saving in cost. Particulars of this
sound business investment from
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8 O’CONN EI.L STREET, SYDNEY.
PERCY MARKS,
JEWELLER AND LAPIDARY,
5 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SPECIALISING IN
Diamonds, Emcra:ds, Sapphires,
Pearls, Rubies, Black Opals in
Exclusive Settings.
FOR ALL SPORT
BUY
THE SPORTING GLOBE
The Leading Australian Authority with the largest
staff of Sporting Experts and Special Representatives
in all States. The staff includes: —
‘MUSKET” ' The Turf
•BAIL” Cricket
X. S. SHARLAND Football
PAT O’HARA WOOD Tennis
J. J. MAHER Cycling
J. M. DILLON Golf
A. L. BOBBIE Rowing
TOM MORLEY Coursing
MAURIE COLLINS Bowls
H. C. BROOKE Yachting
New South Wales edition available—
every Thursday, price 3d.
!
"
{ '
-
'• , :
KJ
•r,
d
Every
Car Needs
SIMONIZ
Have you ever stop-
ped to realise how
important Simoniz is to
the finish of your car?
It’s just about indispens-
able in the care of DUCO
and lacquers.
Simoniz withstands the tests
of time and weather and gives
lasting protection that is so neces-
sary to make the finish last longer
and keep colors from fading. It
leaves a hard beautiful surface that
lasts for months and stands the wear
and tear the finish usually gets.
Then, too, it’s so easy to keep a
Simonized car looking clean and
bright, as all dust and dirt can be
wiped off with a dry cloth without
danger of marring or scratching the
finish.
Anyone can Simoniz a car, for Simoniz
and Simoniz Kleener are easily applied
with a cloth. Dull-looking, tarnished and
discolored finishes can be quickly re-
stored to their original lustre and beauty
with Simoniz Kleener. Then use Simoniz
for that beautiful lasting protection.
Insist on SIMONIZ.
It makes the finish last longer.
Sold by all Good Motor Houses, Service Stations and
Hardware Stores at 2/6 Small Cans; 5/- Large Cans.
In case you cannot obtain locally, see note below.
ANOTHER WONDERFUL
M
A
D
E
I
N
A
U
S
T
R
A
L
1
A
fs
SIMONIZ
PRODUCT—
SIMONIZ
PENETRATING
GRAPHITE
OIL
“LOOSENS THE TIGHTEST NUT.”
Simoniz Penetrating Graphite Oil
instantly
DISSOLVES RUST,
LUBRICATES CAR SPRINGS,
STOPS CHASSIS AND BODY
SQUEAKS,
FREES GUMMED MOTOR VALVES,
LOOSENS ALL TIGHT NUTS
and bolts:
Sold in handy Boz. can with long spout. Price 2/6.
IP YOU CANNOT OBTAIN SIMONIZ PRODUCTS
FROM YOUR USUAL DEALER, SEND POSTAL
NOTE TO
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN DISTRIBUTORS,
MOTORITE EQUIPMENTS PTY., LTD.,
Carlton, Melbourne.'
FREE SAMPLES
OF SIMONIZ AND
KLEENER ON REQUEST.
m
nuco
Apply with a cloth


Under
Royal
Warrant
df
To H.M.
Kina
George V
Vintage 1920.
CHAMPAGNE (
CharlesTfeidsieck
BSHCB
Australasian Agents
Swift & Company Li tnitad
SYDNEY.
champagne
Qiarleslleidsi©>
REIMS
*"*.»*, (: T «)
PELLISSOSM
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Agrarits—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
9
uarantee of Wentworth Service
Smart people—the leaders —always congregate at the Went-
worth—the most efficiently-managed hotel in Australia.
They know, from their personal experience, the real mean-
ing of service which is personally guaranteed by Mrs. H.
Maclurcan, the Governing Director.
Wentworth comfort and cuisine is a byword among
seasoned hotel guests.
Wire or write for reservations.
Ohe Wentworth
V J
Church Hill,
Sydney.
s>2Madleay St.
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT
{Located within the City Boundary t seven
minutes from G.P.0.)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 150 Rooms, is now open and
features Two-, Three- and Four-
room Suites, each with Bath; also
Single and Double Rooms. Central
Heating, Running Water and
’Phones installed in each room.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views.
Weekly inclusive tariff,
from £5/5/-
Daily, from £1
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines) ; Tele-
graphic address: “Fifmac,” Syd-
ney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The unbelievable has happened. The Ceno-
taph has been desecrated. And this by
undergraduates, just of the age of many of
the Anzacs when they laid down their lives
for their country. The ’Varsity commem.
celebrations were responsible for" the amaz-
ing audacity. Flattered and written about
for weeks past by every newspaper in Syd-
ney, the youngsters broke all bounds of
decency. At the Tivoli, into which the police
finally had to be called to bring order, they
plagued not only the men but the girl artists,
till one of the latter left the stage weeping
and one of the former leaped across the
orchestra and hit a tormentor on the nose.
The artist was billed as a comedian, but to
one undergrad, at least he revealed himself
as a pyrotechnist.
The contemptuous gesture towards the
Cenotaph has set this Letter wondering what
the attitude of the world under 21 really is
towards the war and its heroic dead —-and
living. On Anzac Day you will see post-
war male and female flappers going off to
tennis and golf, while mothers and fathers
of the soldier dead and those who them-
selves were flappers in the war years are
streaming to the memorial services. Was
last week’s display but the lurid expression
of modern opinion towards self-sacrifice?
The Vice-Chancellor apologised to the com-
munity, and 26 representative members of
the Undergrad. Association made public
atonement by placing a wreath on the Ceno-
taph ; and procession, carnival and ball,
which were to have followed, were cancelled.
But is no more to be said? Looking back
behind the bacchanal with its unlovely con-
sequences, doesn’t it look as if schools and
university have themselves failed?
Taking it by and large, his Ex. de Chair
was the beau of the United Service Ball at
the Wentworth, even though Admiral Evans
was there, not to speak of the monocled Lord
Stonehaven. Sir Dudley, polished and pink,
beat the new Admiral by a head, literally*
and left the G.-G. a long way behind. Son
Graham, too, was but an also-ran. He has
a newly-fledged look, somehow, with which
the blue lapels of his aidesliip don’t yet go
at all.
Sir Dudley took the floor with Mrs. Evans,
who is a handsome lady built on the big
plan—Junoesque a former decade would have
called it. She is fair, and her skin looked
dazzling above a black frock that was sown
as thick with silver devices as the heavens
are with stars. _ On her pink posy she never
loosened her grip. She seemed to enjoy her
dance with Sir Dudley, though he belongs
to wliat you might call the “Safety-first”
school. The Governor-General is smoother
and quicker in action, but has rather a look
of gently pushing his partner along. (Oh,
well, a man isn’t made a Governor because
of his ability to flat-Charleston.) Admiral
Evans looked nice but quite unheroic. Life
isn’t all carrying life-lines through boiling
seas to sinking liners. Still, the committee,
in the liiterests of all concerned, might have
arranged to have him do a five-minute hero
turn.
Mrs. Leo Quick, who had the appearance
of being wrapped in scarves, swam along on
the G.-G.’s strong right arm like a pink
sea-anemone. Her chiffons started in a
shoulder drape and went on turning and flut-
tering to the ankle line. Chalk-white beads
on apricot chiffon was the effective stamen
for Mrs. Gordon Bennett’s brunette looks.
She and Mrs. Daniell, the tall secretary’s
wife, and Mrs. Alfred Spain were other
ladies who sat within radius of the Govern-
ment House smile. ’ Mrs. Garnet Malley’s
frock of parchment tulle and lace was
bunched up like,, a Watteau shepherdess’s.
Widgeon Wackett’s lady, tall and slim and
fair, had a special presentation, stepping
very composedly on and off the vice-regal
dais in her apple-green shoes. Four debs.,
in beaten-up white-of-egg frocking, were
hatched into the grown-up world by the grace
of Mrs. Frederick Daniell and Mrs. Spain.
They bobbed to the Excellencies, and then
were whisked off into a dance of their own
by four stalwart partners, while the rest
of the company sat at gaze. At the finish
there were rounds of applause, as though the
dance had been some sort of a cabaret turn.
Cecile Waley, very nice in r-ed laces, with
a floating red velvet bow, struck a sustained
note in armholts. She and her partner
were holding, whenever this Letter glimpsed
her, a right and left arm respectively almost
straight in the air. This is said to b* 5 the
newest Paris and London handgrip—it saves
space in crowded night-club floors.
Lady de Chair came on after the Brailow-
sky Chopin recital. She just caught the
procession of brass-liats as it was turning
into the Blue-room for its supper. Heaven
knows what they had, but a cold collation
introduced by oyster cocktail, followed by
lobster, followed by chicken and ices and
coffee, was the not-too-miserable fodder of the
vast majority. Then, alter the second glass,
burst out all the old war tunes —“Tipperary,”
"Pack Up Your Troubles” and “The Long,
Long Trail.” But it was the rousing toast
to Mademoiselle of Armenti&res that, caused
the bunting round the wall to blush furiously.
Poor Lady Stonehaven missed the glitter
of the United Service function, after all.
Not for her the flashing of military scarlet,
the curvetting of gold braids. Duty called
her in the afternoon, and in the gnashing
teeth of a bitter westerly she presided at a
Red Cross meeting at Rose Hall, where her
larynx rebelled. Hence no party at night.
The occasion was a friendly afternoon rally
of the executive and members of the Red
Cross, perhaps one of the last that will be
held at the old Darlinghurst address. The
pen had nearly written stronghold, but in
these days of high land values there’s no such
thing. Rose Hall was vanquished by a
cheque. New quarters are being sought for
the administration and a new home for the
limbless inmates.
Five thousand was the neat little sum Mrs.
Wallace Horsley, of Gunnwilladah station,
formerly Tootles Williamson, dropped last
week into the Hospice for the Dying trea-
sury. This went to support the claim of
Myrine Collins to the Fire Queen’s throne,
and for one giddy day at least Myrine, who
had been away down on the list, saw herself
topping the poll. The hospice has always
made a strong claim on Mrs. Horsley; even
as a small girl she helped to support its good
works.
And surreptitiously on Friday night, just
before the voting closed. Mrs. Williamson
dropped a cheque for £5OOO into the Hos-
pice’s count. But still Mrs. A. B. Sutherland,
representative of the sister hospital of St.
Vincent, just managed to lead the field home.
Rear-Admiral Hyde and his wife are leav-
ing Australia towards the end of June. They
are busy just now paying last visits to
country friends.
There’s a headiness about the Brailowsky
concerts at the Town Hall —an early-morn-
ing freshness caught in a newly-plucked
posy of flowers. In fact, the pianist’s fingers
seem as though they are scattering a shower
of violets and newly-picked mushrooms and
little cloverheads washed in dew. You feel
as though something so happy must happen
at any moment you’ll have to shout aloud.
Even the sadness of his music is alive —it
is never the sadness of despair.
The girl in the picture is Myra Cocks,
of whom Julian Ashton expects great things.
She was one of his most eager students at
the Sydney Art School until she left for
Europe four years ago. Since then she has
travelled and painted in Italy, rural England
and France.
Tlie S 1 a d e
School a n d
Blair Leigh-
ton, the emi-
nent painter,
have put still
further know-
ledge into her
tubes and
brushes; and
a commission
to paint Lord
Hatherton re-
sulted in half
the other mem-
bers of the
Littleton
family sitting
for her. The
portrait of
Lord Hatlicr-
ton was hung
at Wolver-
hamnton. An-
other notable portrait from her brush was
that of the young Norwegian poet Vessaas,
who has caught the public fancy even in the
country that grew an Ibsen. In New York
she illustrated, for the Harpers, a special
edition of the old English fairy tale, “The
Princess with the Pea-green Nose.” Myra
and fame look as though they were linking
up for a life-long partnership.
This Letter went to see the “Don Quixote”
ballet, and for the first time the straggling
road in Spain along which the Knight of
the Woeful Countenance rode, and the little
towns among the hills to which it led him,
took on reality. How quiveringly beautiful
was Duleinea! The sky was blue, the air
like wine. The adventures of the Don were
no longer something to smile at with pity
in the eye; they were something to be envious
of. There was a rapier-like beauty in the
dancing of Pavlova;, the innkeeper’s quick-
silver daughter; there was the dignity of
extreme simplicity in the clockwork move-
meats of the Don; and like a plump, round
chuckle were the jolly bowling and rollings
of Sancho. This is the most literary of the
Pavlova ballets, and has a quality of rich-
ness, a completed roundness, lacking in the
others, no matter how pretty the picture.
Here is the round-faced baby of the Ray-
nor sisters, the three of whom are helping to
put a twinkle
into Sydney’s
nights. Betty
is the one in
this Holly-
wood picture,
and she, with
sister Joan,
keeps the flag
flying at the
Theatre of
Youth in
Young - street;
while Mollie,
the tweenie of
the family, is
responsible for
some of the
plumpest
chuckles in
“The Alar m
Clock” at the
Savoy. It
was Betty’s
idea to have
coffee served to patrons of the T.0.Y., and
thus keep good money in the house that
would otherwise go in search of the suc-
culent sundae.
Young Australia saw West Point,
America’s famous military school, through
the courtesy of Walter P. Chrysler, presi-
dent of the big New York motor-car firm,
and the goodwill of the U.S.A. military
authorities. Led by “Uncle Bob” Sherwood,
a popular radio entertainer, and internation-
ally famous as the oldest living clown from
Barnum’s, the whole 140 Young Australia
Leaguers set out from the 71st Regiment
Armory in four ’buses led by a shining De
Soto sedan and with a convoy of motor-
cycle police. They crossed the Hudson via
tiie Holland tube and journeyed up along the
Palisades to the military academy. There
they were entertained by the cadets at lunch,
and afterwards shown over the academy
and had an exciting polo match played for
them. Of course, they were taken for the
movies as they marched up and down the
campus, led by their own brass band and
11-year-old drum-major Jerry Law, of Perth.
With an expenses-sheet showing £250
already, it looks as if the production of “The
Prince Who Was a Piper” has got a bit out
of hand. The Prince will make his appear-
ance at the Conservatorium on June 15. 17,
38, and an anxious-eyed committee reckons
that over 2000 tickets will have to be sold
before there will be; anything worth men-
tioning for the C. of K. homes at Carling-
ford. The play is an amateur production,
with Elaine do Chair as the Princess, and
society girls filling most of the cast.
Theatricals, by the way, are always an
expensive brand of “benefit,” especially if
anything in the way of coaching for dancing
or'singing is called for. Of course, there
is a way out, especially when the lads and
lasses taking part are well gilded—they can
pay for their own coaching. And why not?
—after all, it is they who get the fun, the
experience and the bouquets.
Younger-setters blew about the Ambassa-
dors looking like old-time belles in their
powder and patches one moonlight night last
week. The occasion was the Maytime Ball
arranged by the juniors of the Sydney Hos-
pital Auxiliary. The affair had been patron-
essed by Elaine de Chair, who brought her-
self, A.D.C. brother Graham and Clarice Faith-
full Anderson somewhere about nine o’clock.
A gilt basket of violets and pink roses was
handed to her straight off the ice, and over
them she bent a lint-white wig, very coy
with its Romney ringlet. Lilac taffetas and
tulle spread about Elaine. Clarice Faithfull
Anderson’s modern old-world chiffons and
silver tresses lent themselves to the ploy.
The really interesting feature of the even-
ing (apart, of course, from Graham de
Chair) was the presentation of the last act
of Boito’s “Neron,” which Sydney has not
previously seen. The act was quite a star
turn produced by Franco Izal. Evelyn Hall,
Jean Riccardo and Dulcie Cohen were the
assisting songbirds. There was an Aubrey
Beardsley suggestion about May Matehett’s
black and silver frocking and silver wig;
like a clear sunset, after a rainy day was
Mrs. Alfred Winn’s opalescence, misted over
with ethereal layers of blues and pink tulle;
and Edith Rowsell, the Auxiliary’s secre-
tary, had crystal embroideries on her skyey-
blue georgettes. Secretaries Jean Lonsdale
and Elsie Graham wore pink and blue re-
spectively.
This Letter decided it liked the train from
the waist when it saw the cascade of tulle
that flowed from Enid Abbott’s wedding
frock. St. Mark’s, at Darling Point, was
the scene of the attractive bride’s vows, and
if there’s a “Who’s Who” in the office of the
Celestial recorder of marriages, the angel
on duty no doubt plucked a brand-new quill
from the wings of one of the seraphim to make
an entry. For the two who were wed were
the social cream of the Glen. Innes district.
The bride was the only daughter of the
Colonel P. P. Abbotts, and the ’groom Harold
Simpson, son of the G. Morris Simpsons, of
Stonehenge. Canon Howard Pea tied the
knot. The tulle train, honorably mentioned
a few lines back, had an auxiliary fall of
tulle veil foaming over it. The frock ittsj?lf
was of ivory chiffon, on which, as a large
hip bow, mother’s wedding laces were poised.
Suzanne Macansh, in a blue-chiffon frock and
a pink hat, with a posy of forget-me-nots
and pink carnations, ’maided very effectively;
and Douglas Abbott was very promising in
the part of best man. The bride’s grand-
mother, Mrs. Gidley King, spread the feast
at tlie Queen’s Club, and did the honors in
black satin frockiug topped by a black velvet
cloak. Mrs. Abbott was in golden laces and
velvets.
Violinist Dagmar Thomson, of Mosman,
has caused a stir by suddenly flashing a dia-
mond cluster on the interesting finger. The
young man to put it there is Rupert S’cam-
mell, a director of Paulding's, Ltd., and next-
door neighbor of the tall and graceful musi-
cian. Dagmar, who has been on the teaching
staff of the Conservatorium, is one of the
most gifted and travelled of the younger
musicians in Sydney.
Still another claimant for ringcognition.
She is Lois Booth, eldest daughter of the
S. T. Booths, of Burwood, and the hero who
is to protect her for life is Lieutenant D. K.
Solomon, of Hunter’s Hill. The glad news
was bruited abroad at the United Service
flutter.
Bay-road (you reach it before the train
climbs up the shoulder of St. Leonards, on
the North Shore line) is to be Waverton
now and evermore. The name will bring
back memories to many an oldest inhabitant.
Formerly a property with a big acreage of
land that went down to the site of the pre-
sent station, Waverton was the home of the
late Richard Old. Richard 11. now owns it
—lawyer and yachting man. But wliat then
was garden, and primeval busli now grows
only chimney-pots and roofs. The old Waver-
ton, built in the days of gabled windows,
was the centre of hospitality in days when
carriages drawn by sleek horses made the
ascent from waterfront to then remote North
Shore mansions.
Mother Mary de Paul Drinan has earned
her place among the elect. For 54 years she
has been one of the community of the Sisters
of Mercy; she has been Mother Superior
at Forbes, Mudgee and Wellington; it was at
Wellington she celebrated the golden jubilee
of her sisterhood four and a half years ago,
and there, too, she died last week. She was
one of the first Australian girls to take
religious vows. She came from Branxton.
Madge Marshall, eldest daughter of the
C. W. Marshalls, of Bondi, is among the
week’s promised brides. The young man is
V. R. Ilorder, of Parramatta.
Younger members of the brilliant Sheldon
family have been distinguishing themselves
abroad. The eloquence of young W. S.
Sheldon (a nephew of Mark and Dr. Strat-
ford) won high commendation in Oxford,
where he has been holding forth as a mem-
ber of the Sydney Uni. debating team which
toured the U.S.A. before crossing to Eng-
land. In the intervals of debating this ver-
satile youth has been sending the S. M.
Herald witty and clear-sighted travel articles.
Meanwhile, his aunt, Pearl Sheldon, has
been getting her pictures hung in the Paris
Salon and the Royal Academy. She special-
ises in interiors, and like so many Austra-
lian artists who have made good abroad, in-
tends to settle and work in her native land.
W. S. Sheldon means to go to the N. S.
Wales Bar.
The Gilbert and Sullivan Society, just one
year old, is proud of its record. At the first
annual meeting it fluffed its feathers over its
107 members, its record of 11 social reunions
without a quarrel with its executive, and its
credit balance at the bank—this last although
the subscription is only 13s. 6d. George
Morrice, whose three daughters founded the
society, is this year’s president, and C. Whit-
tingham the secretary; and it has a keen
publicity officer, A. L. Bourke, of 651 New
►South Head-road, Rose Bay.
When you come to town for polo or the
dentist, take half an hour off to visit the
photomaton. It’s the newest way of having
your “picture took,” and Sydney flapperdom
is crazy about it. The machine is a cabinet,
inside which you sit. There’s nobody to
tell you to look pleasant, so you just look
natural. You sit in the cabinet, smiling or
pensive, till the light goes out. Then you
stroll round to the back of the photomaton
and pick up the portrait slips. You can
have six of them for eighteenpence; and the
whole operation lasts 20 seconds. By the
time you come to town the fascinating
machines may be in every home and store,
but just at present you’ll find them at David
Jones’s.


REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF
The National Bank of
Australasia, Limited
The Balance-sheet of the Bank as on 31st March last, and the Profit and Loss
Account for the year which then terminated, are now submitted to the Shareholders.
The Net Profit, after deduction of all expenses, etc., including
£124,998/6/9 for Income, Land and Note Taxes,
amounted to . . . . . . . . . . . . . . £659,278 3 9
Add balance brought forward from previous year .. 148,494 16 9
£807,773 0 6
Reference was made at the last Annual Meeting to the completion of the new
Head Office Premises. The Management has been very successful in letting those
portions of the building not at present required for banking purposes, and with
the exception of one or two occasional vacancies, the whole of the portion available
for tenants has been in full occupation.
An important feature of the new premises is the Safe Deposit installation in
the front basement, which has a steadily-growing clientele, and is proving a very
useful adjunct to the Bank’s business.
The construction of the Bank’s new premises in Brisbane was commenced
during the year, and it is anticipated that the building will be complete and ready
for occupation by about September of next year.
During the period the following New Branches were opened: VICTORIA—24B
Swanston Street, Melbourne. NEW SOUTH WALES Dubbo, Mungindi (Sub-
branch), Orange, Tamworth and Wollongong. QUEENSLAND—Grantham
(previously a Receiving Office), Mitchell and Roma. WESTERN AUSTRALIA —
Harvey, Dumbleyung, Fremantle Town Hall, and Yealering Receiving Offices have
been converted into Sub-branches.
The following Branches have been closed: VlCTORlA—Elizabeth Street Office,
Melbourne (formerly Head Office of the Colonial Bank), business transferred to
Melbourne Office; Loch (now a Receiving Office). SOUTH AUSTRALIA Barmera
(Sub-branch). NEW SOUTH WALES—Daysdale (converted into a Receiving Office) ;
South Parramatta (Sub-branch), business transferred to Parramatta Branch.
The closing of the Bank’s Elizabeth Street Office (old Head Office of the
Colonial Bank), which was referred to at the last Annual Meeting, was effected
on 27th October, 1928, upon which date the business was transferred to the main
Collins Street Office. The premises have not yet been sold, but negotiations are
proceeding with several interested parties.
The Ordinary General Annual Meeting will be held in the Board Room at the
Bank’s Head Office, 271-79 Collins Street, Melbourne, on Wednesday, 29th May, at
noon, when the Shareholders will be called upon to elect two Directors. Sir John
Grice and the Hon. Sir Frank Clarke, K.8.E., M.L.C., retire by rotation in accordance
with the Articles of Association and are eligible for re-election. There are no other
candidates.
The Shareholders will also be called upon to appoint t\vo Auditors for the
ensuing year. Messrs. John Bishop and S. J. Warnock, the retiring Auditors, are
eligible for re-appointment.
By Order of the Board of Directors,
E. H. WREFORD, Chief Manager.
The National Bank of Australasia, Ltd., Melbourne, 16th May, 1929.
aat ANCE-SHEET of
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED,
at 31st March, 1929.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
Proprietors’ Capital—
-200,000 £lO Shares
Notes in Circulation
Bills in Circulation
Government Deposits—
Not bearing in-
terest . . £273,893 14
Bearing Interest 1,065,889 9
£8,507,773 0 6
47,899 10 0
819,350 7 10
6
£1,339,783 3 8
Other Deposits—
Not bearing in-
terest . . £13,282,011 18 1
Bearing Interest 22,719,669 11 3
£36,001,681 9 4
Interest Accrued and Rebate on
Current Bills
Balances due to other Banks
37,341,464 13 0
445,767 5
269,568 15
£47,431,823 12
Contingent Liability, as per contra,
in regard to obligations of
Customers and others on Letters
cf Credit and Guarantees,
£1,104,357/17/8.
ASSETS.
£47,431,823 12 2
Liabilities of Customers and others
on Letters of Credit, Drafts and
Guarantees, as per contra,
£1,104,357/17/8.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
Dr.
£1,750,58(> 8 4
By Balances brought forward
~ Gross Profits, including Re-
coveries, less Rebate on Bills
Current, Interest Accrued on
Deposits, Repairs to Premises,
Rent, etc.
Ck.
£184,494 16 9
1,602,091 11 7
£1,750,586 8 4
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
Dr.
To Balance .. .. ~ .. £3,100,000 0 0
£3,100,000 0 0
« Cit.
By Balance Last Year . . . . £3,000,000 0 0
~ Transfer fiom Profit and Loss
Account . . .. .. 100,000 0 0
£3,100,000 0 0
The customary Auditors’ Report and Statement of the Directors and Chief
Manager to comply with the Companies Act (Victoria) appears on the Official
Report.
E. H. WREFORD. Chief Manager.
PROGRESS!
The 80th ANNUAL REPORT of the
A.M.P. SOCIETY
for the year 1928 discloses:—
NEW BUSINESS completed £21,352,160
CASH SURPLUS to be distributed amongst
participating members 3,270,000
PAID TO MEMBERS or their dependents. . . . 4,072,305
ASSETS at 31st December, 1928 . . 73,776,235
PAID TO MEMBERS or their dependents since establishment the immense
sum of NINETY-ONE MILLION POUNDS.
Provide for your dependents—make provision for your old age—secure
a profitable investment by effecting a policy with
AUSTRALIA’S FOREMOST LIFE OFFICE.
Write or ’phone for prospectus.
F. T. BRIDGES, Acting General Manager.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 8W2354.
Branch and District Offices throughout Australia and New Zealand.
COMPLETE WOR*
O.HENRV
A. ST. JOHN ADCOCK
says : O. Henry can move
you to tears as well as to
laughter—you have not fin-
ished with him when you have
called him a humourist. ~,
/VU
This one beauti-
ful volume containing
all the intriguing stories of the
world’s most ingenious story-teller is
a publishing achievement! It is bound
in scarlet waterproof Fabrikoid.
If you have ever read an O. Henry story —any one—you will
eagerly welcome this news of an all-inclusive volume at such a
low price. If you do not yet know O. Henry here is your chance !
If you order now you will congratulate yourself on your investment
for years to come.
No one else ever found such fascinating, poignant stories to tell,
or told them with such sympathy and humour —the kind of humour
that smiles at life itself, mingles your amusement with your tears,
and plucks at your heartstrings.
Short, pointed, witty, and always carrying the punch of
that unexpected twist at the end, O. Henry's
tales always leave you gasping with delighted sur-
prise at the unforeseen climax. And no matter
who the characters are —shop girls, tramps,
actors, policemen, thieves, clubmen or
stenographers—O. Henry lays bare
their souls, and makes your
heart beat in sympathy and
under standing. No
wonder millions have
become O. Henry
enthusiasts.
sdf
THE WAVERLEY
BOOK CO.
12 Spring Street, Sydney
P.O. Box 1767 K
I wish to examine the new one-volume
edition of The Works of O. Henry, bound in
beautiful waterproof Fabrikqid. I will either
return the book or remit 21/- in full payment
within ten days.
Name
Address
City
State..
Bulletin, 29/5/’29.


After your shampoo
m
a touch of Rowland’s
Macassar Oil will re-
place the natural oil
which the shampoo re-
moved. The oil is very
necessary, for it pre-
vents thin, falling hair
and gives a perfect
healthy gloss. Comb
the oil well into the
hair.
•5*5
to
From all Chem-
ists, Stores and
Hairdressers.
Red for dark
hair; golden for
fair or grey hair.
. Wand’s
Macassar OH
112 Guilford Street, London, W.C.1.,
ENGLAND.
mssm
■
m
m
xm
5-C
A
•r
I
? •>
The Wool World
Meets at SCOTT’S
COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE.
Since the days of the State’s earliest wool sales,
Scott’s Hotel has always been recognised as the
meeting place in Melbourne of Pastoralists, Wool Buyers,
and Stock and Station Agents, the leading Station Sales
being held there. “Scott’s” is situated adjacent to all the
leading wool houses, and is equipped with every modern
convenience, including electric fans, electric fires, and
intercommunicating telephones in all bedrooms.
Telegrams: “Scottsotel, Melbourne”
’Phone: Central 9011 (10 lines)
HH
mm
5.33
‘Allenbur.ys
Black Currant PASTILLES
df
Business Men!
A clear, command-
ing voice means
much to you.
Ensure this by taking
the " Allenburys ”
Pastilles they are
effective and pleas-
ant in use.
Your Chemist stocks
them. 1/- and
1/9 per box.
Melbourne
Chatter
Moonee Valley’s luck with the weather
is a byword, and there was but little sur-
prise when Saturday afternoon turned out
beautifully fine. Essendon-road wore a Mel-
bourne Cup-day appearance, since it carried
as well as punters those attending the
Aero Club’s show, at which a Sky Derby
was the star item. There was a splendid
attendance at the Valley, and though favor-
ites didn’t behave as sicli there was compen-
sation in the sunshine. The official luncheon,
presided over by chairman Alister Clark,
was largely attended. Lellow chrysanthe-
mums formed the table decoration, and island
rockeries with foliage plants and cyclamens
stood here and there. Rear-Admiral Napier
was having a farewell racing flutter in this
country. The Chauvel lady’s grey ensemble
was topped by a sapphire-blue velvet toque.
With her v „s her sister, Mrs. Bundock, of
Sydney. Mrs. A. V. Hiskens and Miss Cox
were their meal companions. Dr. Forbes
McKenzie was there with his wife, the latter
a symphony in purple. The W. Rogers
Thomsons, she in nigger brown, had in their
party daughter Kathleen, Mrs. Ben Chaffey
and Miss Macpherson. Mrs. Esmond Shieis
was a smart figure in grey, with a beauti-
ful pigeon wing in her felt hat. Mr.
and Mrs. W. McKail Geddes, newly wed,
were bidding friends good-bye the eve of
their departure for Maoriland. She cheered
a grey tailored suit with a crimson hat.
Mrs. Norman Barrett, Margaret Cumming
and Iris Connolly were a well-turned-out
trio. Mrs. E. M. Pearce brought along two
just-arrived visitors from England, Miss
Ward and Vera Pitt. Though members of
the V.R.C. of long standing the B. Rigalls
were at the Valley for the first time. They
regretted leaving the experience so late,
for the course is a delightful one.
There were a few empty seats at His
Majesty’s when Pavlova opened her season
on Saturday night, but the dancer got a
tremendous reception. The new ballet,
“Giselle,” introduced the leading lady in
voluminous layers of white tarlatan banded
with blue, which had as background the pic-
turesque peasant dresses of the ballet. In
the second act, as a spirit in a film of
white chiffon, scattering lilies, she flitted
around other fairy-like forms, whose flowing
locks floated over ethereal mauve draperies
against which the Hamlet attire of Pavlova’s-
mammoth dancing partner stood out in
striking contrast. Flowers were piled about
the Russian star after the first act of “Gis-
elle,” and the other soloists collected tri-
butes immediately after their respective
contributions. Ruth French, the British
dancer with the expressive hands, looked
very handsome in her blue-bird plumage, and
Nina Kirsanova, in her Spanish dances,
managed yards and yards of swirling silk
that mingled crimson and gold with blue
embroideries.
The audience, though well-wrapped, pre-
sented an almost first-night grand-opera
. appearance. The display of furs and brocaded
and gilded-tissue coats was impressive.
Ermine was much to the fore. Mrs.
Harry Emmcrtou’s wrap gave a vice-
regal air to the box in which she sat
with Mrs. Norton Grimwade, who drew
gold metal clpth about a geranium-pink
gown. Mrs. L. Ellinson’s ermine coat lent
dignity to the r.s., and Mrs. Norman
Brookes’s fur fulfilled a similar office in the
d.c. front row. Mrs. Geoffrey Syme and a
daughter had a party of friends in their
box, the John Taits and some of their
family being next door. Mrs. Lort Smith,
Mrs. E. O. MacDevitt, Mrs. H. H. Smith
and Madame Turck and her daughter Ninette
were in the d.c.
Cable-trams flew little flags fore and aft
on Friday in acknowledgment of Empire
Day, and the Union Jack and Australian
ensign scattered raindrops upon passing
pedestrians from many a flagstaff. The
booming of the midday salute was heard
more distinctly than usual, the rain
doubtless improving the city’s acoustics. Red,
white and blue flowers decorated the damask
at the Windsor, where the Royal Empire
Society feasted in honor of the occasion.
Medical knight James Barrett, the president,
handed over the honor of proposing the toast
of the Empire to Mrs. Herbert Brookes,
whose gown was of wheat-colored silk lace
with fur embellishment. Lieut.-Governor
Irvine, Herbert Brookes (Australia’s Com-
missioner-General-elect in the U.S.A.) and
others made patriotic speeches. The chill
in the air brought out a fine showing ot
theatre coats and furs.
One of the most interesting events of
a dull week was the auction sale of the house-
hold gods of the late Mrs T. J. Sumner. For
about half a century Mrs. Sumner, who died
a few months- ago at a great age, was the
outstanding personage of North Fitzroy, in
which suburb her home, Stony Bark, was
the chief landmark. The Sumner estate was
originally of considerable acreage, and
though much of the land was sold and sub-
divided as time went oil, the present grounds
are very extensive for a uear-the-city local-
ity. The late Mr. and Mrs. Sumner were
famed for their philanthropy, which possibly
accounted for the many people _ who took
the opportunity to glimpse the interior of
the great greystone mansion. Women with
babies in prams and toddlers at skirts, appa-
rently very poor, rubbed shoulders with more
fashionable folk, and inspected the furniture
and etceteras with a critical eye. They sat
in state in easy-ehairs in the drawing-
room and the several bedrooms, and obvi-
ously enjoyed themselves no end. Stony
Park was a very old-fashioned establishment,
retaining till the death of its chatelaine its
quaint old brougham and landau. One of
the most sought-after treasures was a
magnificently carved grandfather’s clock of
1793, which was knocked down at £llO. It
is rumored that two religious bodies have
made offers for the house, but that the pro-
perty will not come into the market at
present.
Not quite so .mixed a crowd attended the
auction of effects sold by order of George
Chirnside, of Lilydale. Displayed at Ball and
Welch’s store, Carlton, the charming Louis
XVI. and Sheraton suites, with other mahog-
any and rosewood furniture, crystal and
china, were inspected by our very nnicest,
whose Rolls-Royces and Packards lined up
before the building. Much of the furniture
was in possession of the Chirnsides when they
resided at Werribee Park, now Corpus
Christi College, and many pieces dated back
50 years and more. An immense banqueting
table, a big mahogany sideboard and three
enormous four-poster beds in walnut and
rosewood were some of the links with the
first Chirnside and Werribee.
This is Mrs. .T. Flinn, better known in
art circles as Clara Southern, one of the
foremost women painters of this city. Some
years ago she
was a regular
exhibitor, but
since making
her home at
W a r randyte
she has held
no shows, A
card announc-
ing an exhibi-
tion of her pic-
tures in Mel-
bourne to-
wards the end
of the month
came therefore
as a pleasant
surprise. She
was a Gallery
student under
Folingsby and
McCubbin, and
showed before
the war with
the A.A.A.’s.
She is noted as a painter of wattle, which
abounds around her present home. The
wattles of Warrandyte are as famous as the
roses of Picardy.
Dora Mauglian gave a lecturette on dress at
the Tivoli one morning last week —of course,
to an audience of women. The actress, who
wa3 born in England but acquired her
accent in the U.S.A., used her own frocks
to illustrate her remarks, two dark-haired
girls from the chorus serving as mannequins.
Miss Mauglian stressed the possibilities of
coats —she never appears on the stage with
bare arms. Every one of her evening gowns
or gala dresses has an appropriate coat
with long, tight sleeves. Among the gowns
displayed were lovely black and colored lace
garments with bridge or cocktail coats of
the same filmy material, and there was a
net gown allied to a coat of gold taffeta.
The material in that coat contains £6O
worth of real gold; and it has the draw-
back that it won’t stand dry-cleaning or
ironing, and is very fragile and easily tar-
nished. In its entirety this outfit bore the
name of “Autumn Moon.” The “Hour
Exquisite” was a glimmer of crystal and
rhinestones on white with frillings of dew-
drop-sprinkled silver lace, and “Poison of
Goa” was in three shades of pink—the paler
upper part representing the poison, and the
beaded fringed skirt of roseate shade the
wine in which the potion was mixed. A
couple of tailored suits and some race dresses
were included in the exhibition. The most
valuable garment was an ermine wrap dang-
ling a circular border of 1000 tails, which
cost £l4OO.
Frills and flounces arranged in every
angle from horizontal to perpendicular
were featui’es of most of the gowns worn by
the debutantes at the Newman Society’s
ball last week. There were 56 of these
white-clad maidens, carrying on high pink
and mauve posies as they trod the lancers
in measure sedate and dignified. The debs,
were marshalled by Mrs. Barry and Mrs.
Coffey. Iris Jackson, from Sydney, wore a
Frenchy confection of white taffeta and
silver lace; Shirley Phillips had a skirt
of billows of tulle joined to a satin
bodice with outline of crystal embroidery;
Mary Haegeltliorn’s frock was of ivory
panne with faint pink blossoms at intervals
on the hemline; and Nancy Prahl chose
white and silver. The St. Kilda Town H'all
was decked in drapery and lanterns of sky-
blue and gold. The N.S. president, Harry
Shelton, was there with Mrs. Shelton, who
had pale pink roses on the transparent hem
and cape of a black tulle gown. Mrs.
Maurice MacGillicuddy came with her
medico husband, her apparel being black
tulle over royal blue, with a glow of gold
tissue beneath that again. The T. C. Bren-
nans, she in pink, brought their daughters
Laura, whose frock suggested a violet in two
shades of purple, and Claire, who waved a
jade-green feather fan over lemon-colored
georgette. Mrs. Myles O’Hara wore a wrap
of deep red, striped with gold, over a glitter-
ing black robe. Mayor and Mayoress Uns-
wortli, of St. Kilda, Captain and Mrs. R.
Newman, and Dr. and Mrs. Cyril MacGilli-
cuddy were among the 600 dancers.
The Repertory Society made a good profit
out of the recent four nights’ season of Sean
O’Casey’s “Juno and the I’aycock,” under
direction of Betty Rae, about £lOO and some
useful stage-
settings being
added to the
society’s assets.
For the next
a p p e a ranee
there is to be
a triple bill of
one-act pieces,
“The House
with the
Twisty Win-
dow s,” b y
Mary Paking-
to n ; “T li e
Marble God,”
of Stephen
Schofield (both
first perfor-
mances here),
and “T h e
M o n key’s
Paw,” by W.
W. Jacob s.
Claude Thomas, here pictured, will be re-
sponsible, with Keith Roberts, for produc-
tion. Mr. Thomas has had considerable
experience in stage management with Gregan
McMahon and others. He is an enthusiastic
Repertorian, and while on a visit to Paris in
1922 appeared in French and English plays
of this character at the Little Theatre.
A desire to be represented in the Empire
tournament to be held in S’Africa has caused
women hockey-players to commence the col-
lection of funds to send a team. The Old
Grammarians* (Girls’ C. of E. Grammar
School) and the X hockey team were respon-
sible for the first money-raising effort, a
dance at St. Mary’s Hall, Dandenong-road.
The game was featured in the decorations
with groupings of sticks and club colors and
six life-sized figures wearing club uniforms.
Sheila Hawkins made the realistic images.
Sybil Taggart, of the O. G. club, whose
white gown was splashed with green, flame
and silver beads, and Alison Ramsay, of
the X team, were lion. secs. Miss Ramsay’s
black taffeta frock ran to many frills. The
president of the Women’s Hockey Associa-
tion, Mrs. E. F. Herring, wearing a black
gown, was there • with Mr. H'erring, other
special guests being J. W. Fenton, presi-
dent of the men’s H. A., and Mrs. Fenton,
whose pale green frock was softly flounced.
Melbourne has just had a six days’ boost
of Empire-made goods. Retailers and dis-
tributors gave hearty support, for their trade
badly needed a tonic, and the patriotic drive
gave an opportunity for effective and in-
teresting window displays, backed with strik-
ing posters and sententious slogans. To help
along the Empire-first sentiment the
Rotarians invited women, who do most of
the community’s shopping, to be their guests
at last week’s luncheon. Robert Knox, who
was accompanied by his handsome wife,
addressed the gathering.
A postponement owing to the death of
musician Mansley Greer caused the British
Music Society’s concert to fall on Empire
Night, the rendezvous being the Lyceum
Club. The big room was cheery with a
glowing fire and many radiators, and trees
of holly covered with crimson berries figured
in the decorations. Into this cosy winter
setting Eda Bennie fitted effectively in pink
with beads that sparkled like icicles. The
soprano was heard in songs by modern Brit-
ish, French and German composers.
Though in England, Mrs. James Dyer, who
founded the Melbourne branch, continues her
practical interest in the society, and her
latest aim is to equip the branch with all
the works of the leading modern composers.
As a beginning she is collecting the orches-
tral numbers, part-songs and other pieces by
Gustav Holst. As many of these are un-
published, and exist only in manuscript,
they must be copied, which is expensive.
John Hastings Turner’s “The Lilies of the
Field” was produced by the Players’ Club
at Christ Church Hall last week to aid the
Loreto Free Kindergarten. The early-Vie-
torian furnishings of the second and third
acts were much admired. Josh McClelland,
who was a performer, lent many of the
antique pieces from his Art Salon. These
made a convincing setting for the dainty
frocks of our grandmothers’ period worn by
Plionsie St. Ledger. Foy and Gibson pro-
vided the more modern furnishings of the
play. Bob Guthrie, as the Rev. John Head,
was chief laurel collector, with Madge
Breheny a good second. Jean Dunstan was
the nice wife of the worried parson. Be-
sides directing the performance, Norman
Atkyns played a small role, and received a
cigarette-case as recognition of his services.
There was much sorting out of beautiful
flowers at the final curtain. The Loreto
Players’ string orchestra filled in the inter-
vals pleasantly, and schoolgirls from Mande-
villc Hall and St. Mary’s Mount, Ballarat,
supervised by Mrs. R. Morton and Phyllis
Day, sold sweets and programmes.
Mushroom-hunting is a favorite pastime
just now. It used to be an early-morning
enterprise, but in these luxury-loving days
Sunday afternoon is the most popular time,
and the search is conducted in motor-cars.
A Chatterer joined such an expedition on a
recent Sabbath, and found it a very plea-
sant outing. The ’bus hummed over 20
miles or so to the paddocks selected for the
search, and arriving found several cars
already parked, pronouncing the spot no
secret rendezvous. Out of sedans and sports
models tripped gleaners with baskets and
boxes, climbed wire-fencing and explored a
grassy flat among the flocks. After a couple
of hours’ harvesting, the tally of the Chat-
terer’s party was a market-basket full. Back
to the car for a sup of hot coffee from the
thermos and a bit to eat; then a swift rash
home before the church bells summoned the
faithful to Vespers.
* Long trousers for women are the latest
wear at the most exclusive European holiday
resorts. They are permissible for all day-
time occasions, even for dancing teas, and
skirts belong only to the evening. On the
Riviera beach-suits are being worn by girls
at the tennis courts and before luncheon.
The pants are mostly navy or black, but a few'
daring souls wear white flannels with gaily
woven sweaters.
“A.G.M.” (Lond.) writes: —
The results of the athletic events at Clayesmore
School, Winchester, the other day have been the
handing out of numerous haloes to young Australians,
who are a particularly strong contingent at that
famous seat of mental and physical culture. Oscar
Swanson, nephew of a one-time mayor of Melbourne,
has covered himself with glory. For the third
year in succession he is the best all-round athlete
of the school —an unprecedented achievement. It is
37 years since any scholar held the honor for two
successive years. Texas Carroll, 6on of the cheery
E.J., also at Clayesmore, has had the gratification
of hearing the sportsmaster describe him as one of
the best full-backs in the public schools of England,
and he has been made captain of the school’s cricket
team. Mr. Carroll’s younger son, John, not yet 15,
running in a 40-yards event off scratch, beat the
senior record for the school. Eceles Snowden, son
of the Tasmanian Agent-General, is also among the
Clayesmore boys who have done well in sport
Geoffrey Innes, son of Guy, has given more attention
to study than to physical prowass, and is a
scholastic star. Another interesting member of the
Australian group is a member of the Queensland
pioneer Wienholt family, whose contribution to
Australia’s progress began with the importation of
Clydesdales to the northern State. Clayesmore
has students from India, Canada, Maoriland, the
West Indies and all parts of the, world, so the
Australian lads have to face very keen competition.
The headmaster is Alexander Devine, a man of deep
culture. Of Irish and Greek parentage, he is a
great love- of France, and was the cicerone of
the Prince of Wales on H.R.H.’s first tour of Paris.
At present he is in Rome on a visit to Cardinal
Gasparri, an intimate friend.
The Sultan of Johore, a native State
adjoining Singapore, is on a health trip to
England, and the Colonial Office has had to
deny a rumor that he might abdicate his
throne. The dusky gentleman, had a hectic
time in Melbourne many years ago, due to
the excessive hospitality shown him. He suf-
fered from insomnia, and, as a sedative,
used to drive round the Block which includes
Menzies’ Hotel. Six times round in a han-
som-cab sent the Sultan to sleep. He brought
a morganatic wife from the Gaiety Theatre.
London, with him. Being white, she could
not enter his zenana.


The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited
SPECIAL FEATURES
Of the Directors’ Report presented at the
ANNUAL MEETING,
Held WEDNESDAY, 22nd MAY, 1929.
ORDINARY DEPARTMENT.
NEW LIFE ASSURANCES, business transacted . ,
ADDITION TO LIFE ASSURANCE FUND (Total now £9,277,687) ....
AVERAGE RATE OF INTEREST over all investments, £5 4/6 per cent, (after
deduction of income tax on interest).
PREMIUM INCOME FOR THE YEAR
CLAIMS BY DEATH (Death rate low—only about 65 per cent, of expectation)
BONUSES (Every year a bonus year)—Net surplus for the year
For Life Assurance and Endowment Assurances, Bonuses ranging from £2/4/- per cent, for policies of short
duration, rising to £6 per cent, for policies of longer duration. For Pure Endowments the Bonus Rate is £l/7/6
per cent. . ,
All members of 35 years’ standing who within last year reached the age of 80 years are exempted from the
payment of any further premiums.
COMBINED ORDINARY, INDUSTRIAL AND ACCIDENT DEPARTMENTS
NEW POLICIES ISSUED DURING THE YEAR 63,982
£6,243,839
1,077,782
1,180,878
307,044
398,336
ASSURING
TOTAL INCOME FOR THE YEAR, 1928..
INTEREST INCOME
TOTAL FUNDS AT DECEMBER 31. 1928..
£10,398,605
2,632,142
547,329
11,128,447
The Society is WHOLLY MUTUAL, all surpluses being applied to the benefit of the policy holders only.
Last year’s operations returned a surplus for the year over claims, expenses and provision for the growing
liability of policy contracts to the following extent: —
SURPLUS OF THE YEAR.
Ordinary Department
Industrial Department
Accident Department
£398,336 . .
89,424 . .
(With £4903 additional,
being cost of Welfare
and Nursing Services.)
12,575 ..
Percentage of Year’s Surplus
to Premium Income.
. . .. 34
2O
(And 1.1 per cent,
for Welfare Costs.)
31
The surpluses, together with undivided surpluses carried forward from the previous year, have been applied
entirely to the benefit of policy holders. The following shows the application of the surpluses:—
Ordinary Department
Industrial Department
Accident Department
Cost of
Reversionary Bonus.
£388,865
70,294
8,606
Contingency
Reserve.
£20,000
20,000
Undivided Surplus
Carried to Next Year.
£1875
2609
The above figures are the result of SOUND LIFE ASSURANCE PRACTICE. THE
COL.ONIAL MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY aims to render unexceptionable and
unexcelled service to the' assuring public.
PRINCIPAL OFFICE,
DIRECTORATE AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS:
ARTHUR BONVILLE WERE, J.P., Chairman,
GERALD T. BAKER, J.P. Hon. H. S. W. LAWSON.
C. J. HENDERSON, J.P.
JAMES PULLAR, F.F.A., A.1.A., F.S.S., Secretary and Actuary.
CHARLES E. MELVILLE, Manager.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORATE:
Hon. BRUCE SMITH, K.C., Chairman.
ROBERT M. PITT.
KELSO KING.
CECIL B. HEARN, A.C.1.5., Resident Secretary.


SUNSHINE
CULTIVATING
AND SEEDING
MACHINERY
THE “SUNDERCUT” STUMP JUMP
DISC CULTIVATING PLOUGH
10-disc
14rdisc
cuts
cuts
feet.
feet.
Unequalled for cultivating hard set fallow,
or fallow covered by heavy weed growth,
paddy-melon, stinkwort, thistles, etc.
Does splendid work in virgin Mallee soils.
Levers fitted for team or tractor pull.
mjmm
HVM'rKAY.PI'tP
m
i
am
THE “SUNTYNE” COMBINED GRAIN
AND FERTILIZER DRILL AND
SPRING TYNE CULTIVATOR.
17
25
29
33
41
49
tyne,
tyne,
tyne,
tyne,
tyne,
tyne,
sows
sows
sows
sows
sows
sows
8
12
14
16
20
24
rows,
rows,
rows,
rows,
rows,
rows,
Cultivates and sows to any desired depth.
Forms a compact seed bed with thoroughly
pulverised mulch. Tractor Hitch and
Lever can be fitted when ordered.
covering
covering
covering
covering
covering
covering
sft.
ft.
9+ft.
12ft.
14ft.
Write for descriptive literature, prices
and particulars of extended terms.
H. V. McKAY PTY.,LTD
Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine.
Branches and Agencies:
664 BOURKE STREET WEST, MELBOURNE.
95-97 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE.
27-39 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY.
Corner MURRAY AND KING STREETS, PERTH.
H V McKAV (QUEENSLAND), LTD., STANLEY STREET, SOUTH
* ' BRISBANE.
For the Business Man —for the Tourist—for the Country Man.
THE VICTORIA
Next Town Hall
MELBOURNE
The Largest Unlicensed Hotel in Victoria
THE VICTORIA offers a happy combination of comfort and
homeliness, and its entire organisation is designed to give its
guests the very best possible in service and attention at a
moderate tariff. The New East Wing represents the last
word in Modern Hotel construction.
—ROOM TARIFF
West Wing Tariff —
Single Rooms (hot and cold water) ...... 6/6
Double Rooms (hot and cold water) 12/-
Centre Block Tariff —
Single Rooms, from 5/-
Double Rooms, from 8/-
East Wing Tariff—
Single Rooms (hot & cold water & telephone) 7/6
„ „ (with private bath) 10/-
Double Rooms (hot & cold water & telephone) 14/-
(with private bath) 18/6
EARLY RESERVATION IS RECOMMENDED.
Meals are optional, and are paid for separately.
The guest only pays for such meals as are actually partaken of.
THE VICTORIA, Next Towa Hall, MELBOURNE
An average of over 700 guests accommodated daily.
<md jfiot jßat/kt /
Winter comfort demands more than the provision of heat in the living
rooms only.
Warm bedrooms, bathrooms, lounges and business rooms are also
necessary during the bleak months. Hot water at all times is also a daily
necessity.
!3S&
-X->- '
ill
Ideal Radiators occupy little space,
and are artistic in appearance.
IDEAL CLASSIC
WARMING
Provides warm rooms
and hot baths at little
more cost for fuel than
an ordinary kitchen
range.
ALL FROM
ONE FIRE
Cheaper than open fires, gas
or electricity. The only
system for Hotels, Clubs,
Country Homes, Boarding
Houses, Flats, Golf and
Tennis Clubs, etc.
324-330
PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Write jor particulars and free booklet.
JOHN DANKS &SON PTY. LTD.
391-403
BOURKE ST.,
MELBOURNE.


sd
LEIPZIG TRADE FAIR
GERMANY
AUTUMN PAIR with great Engineering and Building section*—start* August
25, 1929. “If you are alive to business YOU MUST GO!” Last year 185,000
buyers! 10,000 exhibitors! Letters of introduction and all particulars lieeiy
given by authorised representative.
LARS G. BRUNDAHL,
'Pho es; 84006, MW2201. 6 Dailey Str , Sydney.
DOMINION FORESTS LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 26 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH.
NOMINAL CAPITAL £lOO,OOO
SPECIAL AFFORESTATION-ASSURANCE BOND ISSUE.
OUR BOND, BOUGHT FOR £3O on very easy terms, provides:—
ONE FREEHOLD ACRE planted with 650 Pinus insignis trees, planted
in N.Z., and a
FREE INSURANCE POLICY FOR £250 FOR 10 YEARS.
NO BETTER PROPOSITION OFFERED.
WRITE TO-DAY FOR PROSPECTUS. COVER THAT DEATH RISK.
Aristocracy
in chinaware
'JNTOUCHED by the
iLAartist’s brush,confident
in its own beauty of form and
modelling, the Shelley China
distinguished as “Dainty
White” has a still higher
claim to aristocratic, indeed
royal, rank. The brilliant
purity of the white body —
English Bone China of
Shelley grade—would make
any less noble ware look
dingy beside it.
Ask
5 see THE LATEST
SHELLEY
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
* China
Nursery Ware
iy Lucie Attweu
c-Hilda Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
• fUTUM HADE
OP ANY DIFFICULTY IN OBTAINING
WHITS TO
HAIR
N»>
here's
-umy-
Grey Hair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for —
&QjUlVrCs CMCXICANJ
KkUnut SioAM
'"REMOVES THE GREY *
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
If unobtainable locally, posted
direct (4/6), 6d. being postage.
fs
r«:
iiiii
Quick
Way
to Stop
INDIGESTION
if you suffer after eating, try this simple plan :
Eat three Para-Pepstn tablets during your meal
and note results. No pain 1 Just a hearty meal, and
a first-rate feeling afterwards. No drowsiness 1
Para-Pepsin is a great remedy for digestive troubles
—much better than anti-acids or bismuthated
magnesia. And Para-Pepsin costs only two shillings
at the chemist’s. So little for such quick reliel 1
Amusements.
SYDNEY'S CHIEF THEATRES.
,T. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait, Frank Taifc,
HER MAJESTY’S: THE DESERT
SONG.
ROYAL: THIS YEAR OF GRACE.
CRITERION: PIGS.
PALACE: DRACULA.
(Commencing next Saturday).
OICKARDS’ TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY—2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I c. WILLIAMSON, L T D.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
ANA PAVLOVA.
'ROYAL:
THE FIVE-O’CLOCK GIRL.
TVTEW COMEDY THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
YOUNG WOODLEY.
g£ ING ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT.
IRENE HOMER in
THE PATSY.
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
“ MELBOURNE.
EVE GREY and JOHN STEWART in
SMASHING THROUGH.
AXD
WILLIAM BOYD in
THE NIGHT FLIER.
Legal Notice.
IN the Estate of ROBERT
*■ late of 60 Nott Street, Port Melbourne,
in Victoria, deceased.
DONALD CHRISTIAN, formerly of 330
Bay Street. Port Melbourne, in Victoria, the
father of the above-named deceased and en-
titled to his estate, and last heard of in
1902 at Mulwala and Corowa, New South
Wales, is requested to communicate with the
Curator of Estates of deceased persons in.
Victoria, or with his son, John Quirk Chris-
tian, of 60 Nott Street, Port Melbourne, in
Victoria, in connection with such estate.
Public Notice.
LJORSHAM, Victoria.—lf this should meet
the eye of any former residents of Hor-
sham, please write Secretary, Horsham
Reunion, October 19 to 26, 1929, Box 210,
Hirsham P.O.
Missing Friends.
D E ROBERT TRETHEWY SALMON,
A Deceased.
Will any person knowing the whereabouts
of any of the following relatives of the
above-named deceased eommunciate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Hobart, Tasmania:—
1. The issue of deceased’s brother John,
who died on 24th March, 1903.
2. Deceased’s brother Harry.
3. Deceased’s nephew Robert James Alfred
Harris.
IT’S EASY TO GET
RID OF PIMPLES
Why put up with disfiguring- skin troubles when
you can get rid of them easily by enriching the
blood with Cream of Yeast? See how your skin
clears as the good, rich, new blood replaces the old.
And with richer blood comes clearer eyes, firmer
step, greater vigor. Even the hair becomes glossier
as Cream of Yeast improves the general health.
Start this popular treatment to-day—24 Cream of
Yeast tablets cost only 1/11 at any good chemist’s,
or you can get 125 tablets for 5/9. Where other
things fail after months, Cream of Yeast gives
results at once. Proof is easy, and costs little.
ARE
MANY-
GRADES
THERE
OF
Hi MM
CRAB
»ut
CRAB
CAPTAIN
SPECIALLY SELECTED
TAKES COMMAND OVER AL.L
ASK YOUR GROCER iOR EREE RECIPE-BOOK
The Little Sisters
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
Sir John and Lady Goodwin were last
week still in the vicinity of Torres Strait.
All the flags were flying at Thursday Island
to welcome them, and they stayed with
Bishop Davies, of Carpentaria, while there.
Lady Goodwin talked to the Mothers’ Union
and various other bodies, and Sir John went
to see hospitals, schools and churches. Then
the Mayor took his Ex. fishing amidst, adja-
cent isles. The Goodwins return to Brisbane
for the levee on June 3.
The M. S. Herrings had a dance at Joli-
mont, Ascot, for the coming of age of their
son Mac. Red roses and gumtips decked
the lounge for dancing, and the verandahs
were enclosed with flags. Pink and crimson
roses backgrounded supper in the dining-
room. Mrs Herring wore, flame georgette,
soutached with black and silver, and Audrey
Herring was in apple-green taffetas. In the
throng were Miss B. Herring (Melbourne"),
Nell Cameron, Bebe Noakes, Jacqueline
Carter and Marjorie Hollinshed.
An engagement of interest to theatrical
and other circles is that of Bebe Scott, pic-
tured here, to Kyrle McAllister, Nellie Bram-
ley’s leading
man, whose
sister, Elsie
Sylvaney, mar-
ried Charlie
Chauvel. Bebe,
who has real
Titian hair
and a charm-
ing figure, is
only a pocket
Venus, but a
most athletic
one. She
swims and
rides and
plays tennis
i n defatigably.
Her mother,
Mrs. R. Read-
ing, lives at
Manly, and at
the other
Manly (N. S.
Wales) Miss
Scott was born. Her brother is George
Wallace, the comedian. He is as dark as she
is fair. Miss Scott was. five years with
Muriel Starr, before she joined the Nellie
Bramley company. She is an attractive
girl.
Irene Longman had a “victory evening”
in the South Brisbane City H'all after the
tumult of the elections had died down, a
littje. The member for Bulimba was prettily
gowned in black mariette, and wore an
intriguing blue coat. A basket of fruit
and flowers tied with the blue and gold of
the Q.W.E.L. was given to her, and Mr.
Moore, the new Premier, received a button-
hole. Mrs. Goldsmith smiled in black maro-
cain and lace, and Miss M. A. Ogg was in
mauve. Mrs. W. H. Debenam, who saw
to the musical programme, and Mrs. Span-
jer, who sang, were handed bouquets for
thanks. Mrs. Cumbrae Stewart was on the
platform.
Mrs. A. 11. Whittingham and the ex-
Judge Jamesons are off to the Cold Coun-
try for a trip, and Mrs. William Collins
and her daughter came back last week.
The Warwick Women’s Club gave a party
for Mrs. .1. W. Blair, the. rooms being deco-
rated with narcissi and pink roses. Mrs. E.
H. King welcomed Mrs. Blair with a bunch
of crimson roses tied with blue and gold.
There was a good roll-up.
NORTHERN TERRITORY.
Darwin.
Mrs. Worgan, who lately resigned the sec-
retaryship of the Victoria League, which
she had held since the opening of the branch
in Darwin, was presented at the first meet-
ing of the league for the season with a gold-
mounted chiming clock in a neat travelling-
case. Opportunity was taken to welcome
home the president, Mrs. Weddell, lately re-
turned from a long holiday in the South.
Among the guests was the Rev. .T. W. Ferrier,
secretary of the Australian Board of Mis-
sions, who was making his way by slow
stages to Owenpilli Mission Station.
The Administrator distributed prizes to the
Boy Scouts. Rex Lowe won a gold medal
for general proficiency and Frank Litchfield
received second prize. Prizes for composi-
tion, presented by Messrs. Matson (8.A.T.)
and C. E. F. Allen, went to C. Finniss, Iv.
Mackie and Peter West, and N. Bell won
the prize presented by Club-master Blakeley
for first-aid work.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
Many of our social fixtures have as their
mainspring the necessity of augmenting the
flood-relief funds. Among these was the
T.A.J.C. meet at Elwick, which helped sub-
stantially. The day was fine, and the course
was looking its best. Women donned their
winter garb, as it was too chilly to run risks,
and there was a brave array of furs. The
O’Gradys, who are still in mourning, did not
attend, but there was a good roll-up of society
folk.
Another function connected with flood
relief was the “Boomerang” tea and two-day
show, all the proceeds from the sale of
tea and fancy work, musical entertainments,
competitions in bread- and cake-making,
flower show, etc., being devoted to the Mer-
cury and 7ZL funds. Mrs. Houston Rooke
and Fanny Butler worked at the head of a
small army of volunteer helpers. Expenses
were practically nil, and the funds benefited
to a worth-while extent.
The Old Girls’ Association of the Colle-
giate School engineered a highly successful
-dance in aid of the school funds at the City
Hall. A strong committee, with Mrs. Les
Gibsoii as sec. and Mrs. Edgar Wolfliagen
as treasurer, had the satisfaction of seeing
about 700 dancers and lookers-on in the
gaily-decorated hall. Head-mistress Sister
Dora Beatrice shed the light of her coun-
tenance on the show, and brought several
young things under her wing.
The Uni. Commem. functions —the serious
one at the Town Hall and the students’ pro-
cession with the usual fooling—passed off
without any untoward incident. The bur-
lesques and impersonations in the students’
procession were in many cases clever and
humorous, an effect not always attained.
In the evening the students held a shivoo
at the Town Hall, where a too-lengthy pro-
gramme had to be curtailed to make it worth
while to adjourn to the City Hall to finish
up the fun with dancing and supper.
The site secured by the baby-clinic folk
for their new building, it has been discovered,
encroaches upon our beautiful and historic
little Franklin-square, probably necessitating
the cutting down of some of the fine trees.
A strong protest has been made.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Socially things have been very quiet lately.
Attempts to organise dances other than for
charity meet with little encouragement, the
distress due to unemployment being so great.
A ball in aid of the worklessi and their de-
pendants is being arranged for some night
while the “Rio Rita” co. is in Adelaide,
Gladys Moncrieff and other members of the
co. having promised to help. Mayoress Bony-
thon is the leading spirit in the effort. The
dance is to be held at the Palais Royal as
part of the annual charity carnival.
A big crowd rolled up at the Exhibition
Building when the work of 1200 students
of the Arts and Crafts School was on view
and the Gill medal and other prizes were pre-
sented by the Director of Education (W. T.
McCoy).
A recent wedding was that of Madeline,
last surviving daughter of the late A. W.
Ware, a one-time Mayor of Adelaide, to Wil-
liam Jorgensen, of Cadelgo.
Commander and Mrs. R. C. Warden have
returned to Mount Barker. They have. been
the guests of Mr. and Mrs. Clive Currie in
Victoria.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The Hunt Club opened its season on a
splendid day for riding, a bit of a tang in
the air and firm turf underfoot. The meet
was at the Canning Bridge Hotel, where
D. D. Harris did the honors with tea and
tucker. After a good run along the. river
bank the fox disappeared near the wireless
station and was not rediscovered. On the
return to the hotel Mr. Harris, tho new pre-
sident, and Major Secombe, who marries Dot
Hayes this week, both had glasses raised in
their honor. Dot Hayes and her sister Sheila
took part in the hunt. Others in the
chase were the M.F.H., Jack Durack, Mrs.
O. Bateman and Langlois Lefroy.
There was rejoicing in the Quigley house-
hold when daughter Marie attained her majo-
rity. The residential portion of the Royal
Mint was a profusion of roses and maiden-
hair fern, and young couples danced merrily
into the wee hours of the morn. Miss Quig-
ley delighted the eye in white georgettes, the
waistline being defined by beaded pink roses.
Mrs. Quigley dispensed hospitality in a hand-
some black gown embroidered in silver.
Another occasion for wassail was Bidda
Beveridge’s 21st birthday. The Ivarrakatta
Club was decked with vivid dahlias and chry-
santhemums of golden tones, and a two-
decker square cake was crowned with 21
candles in the same rich coloring. The
newly-qualified voter was clad in white
chiffons over satin with impressions of gold ;
an uneven hemline being effected by four
points falling from the overskirt. The left
shoulder-strap of the tight-fitting bodice was
tied with a bow which served to form the
neckline, and merged into the shaped sleeve
on her right. Mrs. Beveridge, in blue ninon
surcharged with crystal, assisted the doctor
in saying “How do?” to 150 guests.
Two semi-impromptu one-act plays, and
items by Joan Cariss, Martin Ketley and
Mrs. Treadgold, were features of the Reper-
tory Club’s social evening.
The lass with the earnest face is Beatrice
Darbyshire, who recently returned from Eng-
v land, bringing
with her a
well - trained
talent for
etching. She
began her
scratching un-
der the quick
eye of Henri
van Raalte;
made rapid
progress, and
exhibited a t
Wembley. In
1924 she de-
cided to con-
tinue work in
London, and
became a stu-
dent at the
Slade School.
Later she ap-
plied the point
at the Royal
College ol
Arts, where she qualified for an associate-
ship under the supervision of Malcolir
Osborne, R.A. Miss Derbyshire specialises
in portraiture and. figure studies.
Mrs. Wooster-Greaves showed what could
be done with pressed wild flowers and a
good decorative sense at her exhibition in
the Arts and Crafts rooms. Mrs. Pelloe
opened the show, after being introduced to
the assembly by Mrs. Southern. The exhibi-
tor presented Mrs. Pelloe With a handsome
glass-covered tray through which was seen
a charming floral design. Mrs. Greaves
presses the blooms by night and suns them
by day, thus retaining the natural colors.
During the afternoon a dainty tea was served
by Muriel Southern and the Misses Wooster-
Greaves.


BOLS
'VERY OLD
HOLLAND GIN
lit IHe Sl<f>n.e Bottle
The straw col-
our is proof of
Its maturity.
fr
yD's
&
f s>
W.
*b
[Bin,
r n
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —Jatnes Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
J»'. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
general Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Fedeial Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, and 96
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
sdf
“CLYDE
BATTERIES”
For RADIO, MOTOR-CARS AND
COUNTRY HOME LIGHTING.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY, Ltd.,
Granville; and Goulburn Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE QUARTERMASTER.
THIS IS THE £500 FIRST-PRIZE NOVEL “A HOUSE IS BUILT,” BY FLORA ELDERSHAW AND MARJORIE BARNARD,
ABRIDGED BY ‘‘THE BULLETIN” FOR SERIAL PUBLICATION.
xcv
Synopsis: Quartermaster James
Hyde, impressed,in 1837 with the busi-
ness possibilities of Sydney, lea res the
service two years later and buys a
combined store and dwelling in 'Wind-
mill-street, near the harbor. His son
William thinks shopkeeping and the
general raw state of the voting city too
degrading for him to bring his fiancee,
Adda, to live there. William also
resents the whaling skipper, Captain
Hildebrand, being treated as a family
guest and meeting his sisters, Fanny
and Maud, on terms of friendship. The
Quartermaster rebukes his snobbery,
and says that Maud, who had displayed
interest in Hildebrand, is the same
with all other men. Fanny, however,
is secretly deeply attracted to Hilde-
brand, and cherishes as a token of her
love a piece of coral which he gave her.
CHAPTER V.
William.
THE Quartermaster was wrapped up in
his new enterprise in flourmilling, and
had bought two waggons and three
teams of horses, not only for carting the
flour from the mill to the store and to other
customers, but also for bringing in farm
produce. “I’m an impatient man,” he ex-
plained to William, ‘“and I like things when
I want them, not a week later. If I fetch
the* things myself I save time and temper,
and I see that the stuff’s right before I take
delivery. That’s business, son,” he con-
cluded with considerable complacency.
George drove one waggon because he
understood horses and could coax the un-
wieldy vehicle over bad roads when nine
out of ten men would bog it. Since George
had no business head, William was often
sent with him. There was nowhere for him
to sit but on the box by the driver, and it
afflicted his pride sorely to be seen jolting
along George-street and out on to the
Parramatta-road on his father’s waggon.
When possible he invented business in
town and joined George beyond the brick-
fields. Once out in the country the excur-
sions were quite pleasant provided the
weather was not too hot or the roads too
dusty. But a new humiliation was soon to
be laid upon him. The Quartermaster con-
ceived the brilliant idea of sending his
waggons out laden and so collecting freight.
William therefore now jolted out of town
with a motley collection of agricultural
implements, household oddments, furniture
and foodstuffs rattling behind him. It not
only spoiled his exit from the town but
marred his entry into the country. The
excursions• were purgatory to the youth;
but Benjamin Shirley was able to point out
to the Quartermaster, with all a flatterer’s
pleasure, that he was more than paying for
the upkeep of the waggons by the freights
he collected.
Nevertheless William’s growing ill temper
was becoming a burden upon the whole
family. The Quartermaster could no longer
ignore his son’s discontent. He had brought
his family up on the theory that women
and children were strange creatures but
would get over anything if you took no
notice of them. So far his children had
always come to see reason without any un-
necessary conversation. William, however,
was not yielding to the strong silent treat-
ment. He was now, the Quartermaster
reflected, probably sufficiently mature to be
reasoned with. He would apply to him his
second rule of conduct which he kept for
men j he would “have it out with him.
As William stood idly throwing stones
into the water one Sunday afternoon the
Quartermaster came up and clapped him on
the shoulder. William automatically
“wished he wouldn’t do that,” and threw
another stone into the water.
“You’d better get it off your chest, my
boy.”
“What, papa?” asked William with a
sinking heart. Often as he had rehearsed
his grievance he found himself at a loss
before a direct attack.
“You’re going round like a mute at a
funeral and making us all damned uncom-
fortable. What’s the matter? If you won’t
tell me I can’t do anything for you, can I?”
“I’m not happy here, papa, and I don’t
think it is fair to the girls or to me to
keep us in this place.”
“Don’t like the store, eh?”
“No, I—I” how could he say “I think
it is vulgar and rough and a constant wound
to my refinement”? It would be like tell-
ing the Quartermaster that he was vulgar
and rough himself. “I don’t think it’s a
suitable home for my sisters,’ he said, with
an effort.
“We can leave the girls out of this,
said the Quartermaster drily—“they are
quite happy. It’s you we are interested in
this afternoon. What’s wrong with the
store? It’s not the Battery—is that it?”
“It’s a bad neighborhood. All the decent
people have left it, and living over the
business like any shopkeeper we never
have a chance to meet people.”
“And the nasty smell of the oil, William,
and your papa in his shirt sleeves!”
William blushed hotly.
“It’s all right, my dear boy, I’m not
sensitive. Go on.”
“I’ve nothing more to say.”
“Oh yes, you have—you’re like a woman
who keeps back some of the housekeeping
bills. They all have to be paid in the end.”
“I’m twenty-one, papa. I work for you.
I’m your son. But you never give me your
confidence. Benjamin Shirley knows more
of the business than I do. I have to go out
with the waggon to be a laughing stock.
You never take my tastes into considera-
tion.” .
William was beginning to find his feet
and was pleased to feel a glow of defiance
running through him.
The Quartermaster surveyed him without
heat. “I would have given you my confi-
dence if you had wanted it. You have not
been very encouraging, I had
hoped for something different. Seems to
me you want things both ways. You accuse
me in the same breath of dragging you into
the business and of keeping you out of it.
I’m willing to make you my partner. I’ll
write ‘and Son’ up there after my name, if
you’re willing. But if you come in you ve
got to take an interest, you’ve got to put,
your whole heart and soul into it. I’ll
expect you to work as hard as I do. And
you’ve got to be proud of it. It’s not
decent nor honest to sniff at your bread
and butter; and you’ll not go on sniffing
in my house. If sniffing’s what you really
want, you can sniff elsewhere!”
“I don’t understand you.”
“I’ll make myself clear. I’m giving you
the choice. As you say, you are twenty-
one. Heaven knows I want you to grow
up. You can come into the business as an
equal if you’re willing to give it your best
—no reservations, mind!—or you can go
right out of it. Now, don’t get any dramatic
notion into your head that I’m casting you
off. I’ll set’you up in anything in reason.
You can go back to England if you like;
your uncle will take you again into his
counting house, I’ve no doubt. I’d be dis-
appointed and you’d be a fool, but I won’t
stop you being a fool if you want to be.
Now look here, William. If you go back
to England, what will you be? A clerk in
your uncle’s counting house—and in ten
years’ time you’ll still be a clerk! Your
uncle has boys of his own and he’ll put
them over your head. You might go to
another counting house, you might get on,
but you’ve not much capital. I can’t afford
you much for the next few years, and you’re
not a genius. Genteel drudgery for the rest
of your life—very nice, very respectable.
But confoundedly dull!”
The Quartermaster had edged William
against a wall and in his earnestness drove
home his points with his forefinger on
William’s waistcoat. William found this
so irritating that he could hardly give
attention to what his father was saying.
“And you wouldn’t drop into a fat thing
here when I’d gone. I wouldn’t give you
a business you didn’t care for, to make
a mess of—l’d give partnerships to the
girls’ husbands as a dowry, if I liked them,
and they’d have the whole thing after me.
Is that clear, William?”
“Perfectly clear, papa.”
“If you stay—well, haven’t you ever
thought of the prospects here? The place
is seething with opportunities—l can t sleep
at night for thinking of them. Australias
rich—we don’t even know how rich she is
yet—and all the riches will come down to
the man on the waterfront. It’ll pour
through our hands. The wheat and the
wool and perhaps gold, too —pouring out
through our hands into the veins of the
world! Sydney will be a fountain of wealth.
Between them the farmers and the mer-
chants will make her. England is pot
bound, God bless her!”
William’s unresponsiveness became appa-
rent even to the Quartermaster. He had
wished for his son’s companionship in his
romantic optimism, but since he was him-
self embarrassed by his own streak of
idealism, he could scarcely blame William
for not sharing it. The young man’s im-
perviousness appealed to him as admirable
restraint and strength even while it dis-
appointed him.
He shifted his ground, and, tapping the
unresponsive chest in another place, went
on: “We’re doing well now; presently we’ll
do better. Look at other men who began
where we did:. Look at old Gillam —
twenty years ago he hadn’t five hundred
pounds; now he’s one of the richest men
in Sydney. What he could do I can do.
Some day you’ll be a richer man than
Master Humphrey because I’m not fritter-
ing away my money on foolish display.
Gillam’s wasting his wealth more than he
knows because he’s not bringing up his son
right. Young Humphrey will settle down to
be a gentleman on the proceeds. I won’t
have you do that. What’s the good of
building a business if it’s not going to last?
It’s not only money to be spent, boy; we
owe a duty to our property, and I’m not
going to hand mine to a do-no.thing even
if he is my only son. I’ll not have solid
gain thrown away on tiddly-winking gen-
tility. Have I made myself plain?”
“Yes, papa, very.”
- “Do you see now which side your bread’s
buttered?”
“Yes.”
“Have I been fair?”
“Yes.”
“Don’t say ‘yes’ if you don’t think it.
You haven’t been straight with me before,
and this is your last chance.”
“You’ve no right to say that, papa.”


“Is that clear, William?"
“Yes, I have. You’ve not been what I
call straight in a lot of ways. Over com-
ing here—if you didn’t want to come why
didn’t you say so? Why didn’t you refuse?
Or if you didn’t want to come but thought
you ought to, or were afraid of missing
something if you didn’t, why didn’t you
come cheerfully? You came and you sulked.
Wanting it both ways agam Why Jo yo'i
ifftaSn, ?t et ou“ yOU
Wffliam felt vety unhappy His faUrert
reasoning fell on him with sleage-nammer
Kirxriro vuViiiD tin li«tpTipd hp could
right as to get what he wanted. It there-
fore hurt him bitterly to have his founda-
tions of martyrdom shot away from under
him. His unhappiness and distaste for
his life in Sydney remained with him, but
his sense of injustice was shaken. It is
hard to do without a sense of injustice
when you have got used to one.
But William was no fool; he was a
poor judge of men, but he knew that his
father was steadfast and would keep his
word. He was sufficiently his father’s son
know that in the last resort he would
not sacr ifi ce the substance for the shadow,
g e wag on the way to being a cold, formal,
gtilted man> and the qualities of this type
b inning to unfold in him-justice,
an honorable but not im-
>»>„£** a the Quartermas tef re-
, ’ william
fleeted. But he was clapping william
we can discuss the details,
William drooped-discussion was hardly
the name for the Quartermaster s method
of conversation, and he had had enough,
He reflected bitterly, when he had regained
the refuge of his room, that he had given
up everything, even the right to cherish
& grievance, and received nothing m return
but what should have been his unques-
tioned right.
Yet, looking back, England and the old
life seemed to have shrunk, and even Adela
seemed a little farther off. He would say
nothing to her about joining him. Her
parents would never consent, and she was
not yet twenty-one—three years before
there was any question of her coming.
* * * *
The next week was a very busy one, the
stables were full of horses, an overdue boat
was in and had to be unloaded and reloaded
as speedily as possible. The work went on
all night as well as all day. The Quarter-
master himself did not seem to sleep. He
enjoyed the excitement, directing every
operation, serving out tots of rum, shout-
ing down the noise of the winches. Torches
flared all night in the courtyard, and be-
tween fatigue and the liberal supply of
stimulants the workers were all half drunk
long before morning, and the loading took
on something of the appearance of an orgy.
The girls could not sleep for the glare
and the noise and became mfected wltJa
the excitement,
They were so busy that William could
be spared to go into the country. For
fbree days he had no time to think. He
coldd not but admire his father in action,
Competence was a clean, neat thing that
William loved as you might love a work
of art, and it satisfied him to feel, under
the noise and apparent confusion, the steady
and efficient accomplishment of the task,
a WO rld of order issuing out of chaos,
Q n tbe f our th morning the wharves were
c j ear _ Everyone was suffering a reaction,
' tn-dav'” an-
Holiday fo ry “There’s iust
nounced the, Q« arte ™ ai3ter ' j £before
one thing I d y .
you go, Wi liam. I fought one of the
horses myself ? as a spec.-Id like your
opinion 01 hei.
Continued on next page.)


NEXT WEEK
Read THE GET-AWAY, by Hilary Lofting. It isn’t long, but it
has one of the most thrilling situations “The Bulletin” has ever met;
also THE HERO OF THE BOYD, another of J. H. M. Abbott’s
stirring tales of the early days.
i/A (MJjMk
>1 \No Hotel in Adelaide
' oivos such mmfnpt
comfort
'at small cost. Oppo-
i site Railway Station.
' Close to theatres and
shopping. 300 rooms
and 100 bathrooms.
Yale locks on every
door. Excellent ser-
vice throughout.
Write for Tariff.
tim*
m
>GROSVENOR
Tddein/des Finest Unlicensed Jlotel
Opp. Railway Sfn.. North Terrace. Phone Cent. 4Q4l_
21.
EARN ALL YOU CAN—
SAVE ALL YOU CAN—GIVE ALL YOU CAN
Such was the good advice of John Wesley. You are, of course, entitled
to earn all you can, and no doubt are bending all your energies in that
direction.
Nevertheless, what you save will, in the long run, probably count for
more than what you earn.
Use the easy saving plan. Open a Commonwealth Savings Account,
and be faithful to it, for the sake of your future needs and that you
may be able to give when it is your duty to give.
CbninioiTOltl) Savings JSank of Australia
(Guaranteed, by the Commonwealth Government).
WTTPfTTTTTTTm
7'o be healthy-
drink y
•:
the finest
tonic food
In 4 sizes drink
of all Chemists
and Stores
>~i m 111111111111
“I don’t know much about horses, sir,”
said William, faintly flattered under his
fatigue.
“Still, I’d like to know what you think
of her—last box on the far side,” he called
after the retreating figure. The Quarter-
master was in the best of humors. He
never outgrew his pleasure in surprises.
He could not wait for William to return
but left the table and went out into the
courtyard.
“Well, what do you think of her?” he
shouted as soon as the boy emerged from
the stables.
“She’s a beautiful creature, sir. May I
ask what you gave for her?”
“You may not. .She’s a present, a present
for you. I’ll have my son travel like a
gentleman.”
“For me—papa!” For the last time in
his life William felt an impulse to fling
his arms round his father’s neck, but he
could only blush and stammer: “I—l—
deeply appreciate your kindness. Thank
you—thank you very much!”
“That’s ali right, my dear boy. You’re
satisfied, so am I,” and off he stumped,
leaving William high and dry.
Peace fell upon the store. The Quarter-
master settled down to forty winks with
a red bandana over his face to keep off
the flies. Benjamin fell asleep among his
papers with his head upon his outflung
arm, and even the thought of Maud was,
for the time, expunged from his mind.
William went to his room and the girls lay
down to rest. The work and excitement
had done them all good. All had a sense
of accomplishment."
Maud fell asleep at once. Fanny lay
down, too, but did not sleep. She was
pleasantly relaxed. How strange it was to
be lying down at ten o’clock in the morn-
ing! It was like being convalescent after
an illness—to be here so at peace. She
felt like clear water. She could no longer
imagine storms and disasters; the only
picture she could conjure up was a long
black boat on a sapphire sea, scudding
north and home.
“He is coming home!” cried her heart.
“I know that he is coming home now!
However far apart we are, I shall always
know when he is coming back to me.”
All day and for days to come she watched,
with the eyes of her heart, the black boat
sailing north.
CHAPTER VI.
Fanny.
Important things were happening to
Fanny. Almost everything that happened
to her in the years of her making was im-
portant, just as nothing that happened to
Maud ever seemed important at all, be-
cause it happened so easily and naturally.
Fanny was used now to being fin love.
Every day cemented it deeper into her
heart. Having no other ground to root
in, it rooted in herself, and having taken
this sudden miraculous passion for granted,
she began steadily and quietly to build
her life upon it.
It did not seem strange to her that she
should love a man she hardly knew, who
lived a desperate sort of life outside her
small world, any more than faith seems
strange to the devotee. Fanny loved by
faith. The stranger, or the enemy, having
once been admitted behind her barricades
of reserve, her commonsense, her humor,
her total lack of sentimentality, all the
qualities that had kept her immune from
the gossamer affairs that were Maud’s
daily bread, made its position impregnable.
.Fanny had strength to protect a love that
would soon have been ousted by new con-
querors from the open city that was Maud.
The deep change in Fanny showed itself
in many little ways that only Maud noticed.
Her attitude to her sister changed subtly.
She had never forgotten that she was the
elder sister. There was a deep and close
affection between them, but Fanny had
always assumed an air of guardianship.
Maud had always made her feel serene and
competent, and, perhaps out of a quite
unconscious streak of jealousy, she had
always stressed Maud’s “flightiness.” She
had rather ostentatiously left vanity to
Maud, was careful not to compete with
her. Now Maud seemed less a child to
her, Maud who had been in love so often.
Fanny would have liked to talk to her,
but was too shy.
Sometimes in the oval mirror between
the two candles she would catch a fleeting
glimpse of herself that seemed new and
surprising. She would bend forward to
stare at herself, and it would be gone—
the hint of color and music that she had
so nearly surprised by candlelight. Her skin
was pale without being fair. For all her
slimness and pallor she never impressed
anyone as being bloodless. Her hair was
dark and cloudy without being lacklustre,
just as her skin was pale without being fair.
Her cheekbones were too high for beauty,
her eyes of a veiy dark grey, direct and
hard. The unconscious softness of youth
and inexperience still concealed the strong
definite lines of her features. She had
good looks, but not of Maud’s type, and
Maud’s type was fashionable. Maud’s
brown curls, big brown eyes and brilliant
complexion always haunted Fanny when she
gazed at herself in the glass, and took all
the lustre from her own less obvious charms.
Still there came always the comforting
assurance “He does not even look at
Maud!”
Fanny’s hand was light upon Maud these
days. When they went for the daily con-
stitutional, it took little cunning on Maud’s
part to steer their course towards the
barracks, the Mecca of Sydney’s youth and
beauty.
Fanny was not unaffected by the gaiety
of their departure at two o’clock. Maud
would wear perhaps her white organdie,
ruffled to the waist, the little bodice formed
by a fichu fastened with a cameo brooch.
Over her shoulders fell her fine silk shawl
with an embossed pattern which papa had
brought her from India when he was on
the Intrepid. She wore a bonnet of Milan
straw, high crowned and wide brimmed,
her face framed by its ruches of blond lace
and flowers, broad cherry ribbons fastening
it beneath her chin. One mittened hand
held a minute chiffon parasol, the other her
black silk reticule with the beadwork. As
they moved the curious might glimpse
pantalets frilled with fine lace, lace stock-
ings and a bright shoe-buckle under the
hem of her frock. Fanny, beside her in
yellow muslin, a massive gold brooch like
a shield on her bosom, and a feather tipped
with brown curling round her bonnet, did
not look nearly as strict as she thought
she was. But Maud knew she had a core
of iron.
At two o’clock precisely they left the
store. Maud was happy and excited and
talked incessantly.
“What do you think, Fanny? I just heard
papa asking the Gileses to dinner. Mr.
Giles was in the office. He has brought
his family to town and they are staying
the night at the Royal. Papa asked them
all to dinner. Isn’t it provoking?”
“Why did you not tell me before?”
cried Fanny. '“Now I’ll just have to go
straight back. It is too bad of papa not
to let me know.”
“No, indeed! The stuffed mutton is
quite good enough and papa can open a
bottle of wine.”
Fanny hesitated, then resumed her walk
with determination. “I’ll get a seed-cake
at the confectioner’s!,” she conceded to
hospitality. “Is Euphemia coming?”
“Of course Euphemia is coming. And
William will have to entertain her.”
“Poor William!”
“She must be thirty if a day. No wonder
she is desperate.”
“No wonder!” cried Fanny, and peered
down the terrible pit that a few months
ago would have looked no more than a
ditch to her. Thirty and unloved!
“Papa has a share in Captain Bennett’s
boat, now, Fanny, did you know? He
didn’t make anything on his last voyage,
only debts, and the boat had to be repaired
and everything, so papa took a half-share
in her. And Benjamin says Captain Bennett
won’t be able to sell his oil to anyone else
or buy even a nail at another store. And
if the Rosamund doesn’t have a good trip
this time, she’ll belong altogether to papa.
Is it not strange, Fanny, to think of Captain
Hildebrand owing papa money? He looks
as if he had a chest of gold under his bed.”
“It is no concern of ours, Maud,” said
Fanny stiffly, though it comforted her to
hear his name. “You shouldn’t encourage
Mr. Shirley to talk about private affairs.”
“But we must talk about something; he’s
so modest and papa’s affairs are the only
things he can be- interesting about. I don’t
see why I shouldn’t know. Papa never
said I wasn’t to. You like to know, too.”
“But about Benjamin—you lead him on,
Maud.”
“It makes the poor boy so happy to talk
to me. He’s had a sad life, what with his
papa and mamma not being all they should
be. You needn’t be afraid,” cried Maud
with a toss of her head, “that he’ll take
any liberties. He is too modest for words
—not like some people I know.”
They were nearing the barracks now and
Maud’s eyes were very lively, appraising the
gowns of the women and fluttering past
them to the glint of red where the soldiers
paraded in Barrack-square. A shimmer
of heat that was like a breath of excite-
ment rose from the paving stones. The
streets were full, gentlemen in top hats
and blue coats on horseback, ladies in open
carriages with their gay little parasols tak-
ing the air, girls upon the pavement with
their faces towards the barrack square.
There was a sparkle in the air. Fanny
stiffened to it a little, Maud relaxed.
Maud bowed right and left. How did
she get to know people? Fanny knew few
of them, yet they were always together!
Maud kept up a running whisper of com-
ment.
“Oh, look, Fanny, isn’t he magnificent?
—no, no, that one over there, stroking his
whiskers. Who can he be? Let us catch
up to Mrs. Cleaver, perhaps she’ll know
him.”
It was later than usual when they returned
home. Sepia shadows were gathering in
lanes and alleys, and doorways were
cavernous. The houses on the Rocks
massed and huddled. They serrated the
quiet sky with the pattern of their chim-
neys and roofs. The Rocks were beginning
to stir. In upper chambers girls leaned
between candles to rouge their pale cheeks,
the tinsel glamor of their finery awakening
as they moved. Sailors, home from the
sea, lounging the day away, woke from their
apathy, and every corner with its public-
houSe and warm glow of lamps sent out
its magnetism. The girls were on Tom
Tiddler’s ground and should have fluttered
home with all possible speed.
As they approached the door Fanny was
overtaken by panic. She saw a tall
form beside her father’s, standing in the
far doorway, and bolted for the stairs.
The Quartermaster shouted after her re-
treating figure.
“Fanny, lay a couple of extra covers.
Hildebrand and Meikle are coming up to
dinner.”
“He’s forgotten all about the Gileses,”
tittered Maud, following her sister up the
stairs.
Fanny was a whirlwind of energy. Every-
one else was as an effigy in wood, created
to baulk. The day had the air of a great
day—fortune was at its flood to-night.
Adventure was in the air; Fanny was
breathing it in great gulps of excitement.
She was determined to play her part regally.
Her dress flowed and billowed about her,
held out on starched and boned petticoats.
Tiny pink rosebuds held the scallops of
cream lace; the bodice was like a flower
holder, a rose-colored cone out of which
her bare shoulders rose. The deep bertha
fell over her breast and arms, supplement-
ing the short, tight sleeves. "W ith arms
raised to fix a cluster of rosebuds in her
dark hair, Fanny saw herself full length
and thrilled with surprise and joy.
“Darling, how beautiful you are to-
night,” Maud cried.
“You too, Maud.”
They flew into each other’s arms, broke
apart, laughing a little at their own emo-
tion. .
Fanny fled to see that all was well in
the dining-room. She touched the flowers
and fruit to a more fashionable abandon;
from a cupboard she brought the two high,
ceremonial silver candlesticks, and set them
before her place, in line with the four
majolica ones * that Katie had deemed
sufficient. With intent face, she touched
the tall white virginal candles with fire.
Sue was pleased with the table. In the
centre was the epergne of clear glass dusted
over with golden stars, its tray piled with
peaches and bananas, the crown awaye with
asters. It was flanked on either side by
cornucopias gushing asters on the damask.
The blue wineglasses, the gargantuan salt-
cellars, the heavy silver were as they should
be. The silver had a mellow, family air.
True, it. was somebody else’s family, for
the Quartermaster had bought it at an
auction # for a third of its value.
Fanny was to remember that moment —
the breath of the open window upon her
neck, the broken cadence of the water, the
empty garnished room waiting, a lighted
upper chamber hanging like a star in time.
Her heart, suddenly hollow now that it had
been emptied of the anxiety that had be-
come second nature, waited to be filled with
happiness.
Immortal moment!
The compahy was gathered. Out of her
new self, in her crystalline detachment,
Fanny saw them as if for the first time.
Before her, at the other end of the avenue
of candles, she saw her father’s red, genial
face. He was happy. He liked feeding
people. To him there was something sacred
in the partaking of hospitality. Upon his
left, magnificently arrayed in puce, with jet
jewellery, the imperial form of the caged
suburban eagle that men knew as Mrs.
Giles. Her eyes emptied out and shook
all they saw. Fanny beheld devastation in
the wake of her glance. The fruit upon
the epergne grew smaller, the silver pro-
claimed itself a bargain at an auction, the
spot of iron-rust on the cloth swelled and
shouted. And Mr. Giles —the small, fat,
pursy man with the little, meaningless
gestures of importance! He was willing to
surrender everything, had surrendered
everything, so long as he might keep his
manner of importance. Then there was
Euphemia, their daughter, left defence-
less in her advancing age before her terrible
mother. Fanny’s eyes veered with her
thoughts across the table to Euphemia.
Day and night that terrible woman tried
to harry Euphemia into being attractive,
being a success. Euphemia did her best,
but her grasping, mechanical gaiety was
like rouge on an ancient cheek.
William was doing his duty. His pose
was immaculate, his manner polished. He
was holding a slippery shield of politeness
between himself and Euphemia. He was
in agony, but he was a gentleman. Fanny
thought it a little mean of him to be
always so correct. Could he really be in
love with his Adela? And could anyone
fall jn love with William? It would be
rather like falling in love with a marble
mantelpiece. William would never guess
anybody’s secret. But Maud? That kiss
had been like a confidence. But “What
does it matter?” her drumming pulses cried
to her beating heart.
Maud was doing her duty, too. She was
salvaging Mr. Meilde from the very deep
water into which he had fallen. As mate on
the Rosamund he was a tower of strength.
Until this moment he had scarcely known
the meaning of fear. He was face to face
with the mysterious phenomenon Gentility
—he sweated profusely to think how, from
the safety of the Antarctic Ocean, he had
scorned this thing. It had seemed natural
enough when the Quartermaster had said
“Expect you to dinner!” He had not
known it would be like this, nor that he
was as he was. He had not known, for
instance, that he had hands like hams.
(Continued on page 58.)


Ted Henkel, Director of Musical Presentation at Sydney’s
great “Capitol” Theatre says: —“Cream of Yeast is un-
doubtedly of great Value in aiding appetite and digestion,
toning up the system—and permitting of the complete
physical and mental co-ordination so vital to success to-
day
k
Photo at Right; Famous Ted Henkel “ Chairing ” Fidel la Barba,
■
|P
OF YEAST is a great way to get Better Health because
its ingredients are among the most valuable and beneficial
in medicine, and are so recognised by medical authorities the
world over. Cream of Yeast gives people what they want from
yeast— safe , reliable attion — quick, real benefit. Cream of
Yeast is a produd of chemical skill combined with resources
ranking among the greatest in the world. It is improbable
that any medicinal tablet could be made to do more good fbi
average conditions; it is certain that this remedy outstrips
others from most points of view; it is a positive fact that
it is safe. Take Cream of Yeast for Headaches, Bad Nerves,
Sleeplessness, Dullness, Tired Feeling, Indigestion and Com-
plexion Defects. Do not be misled by mis-statements. Do
not suppose that plain brewers’ yeast can give you the benefits
you will definitely get from Cream of Yeast. Remember:
this remedy is a medicinal yeast-compound, costing more to
make than plain yeast tablets, yet costing you no more. It
•3 an efficient pharmaceutical product, honestly made to do you
good; and is neither a fake nor a fad. Your money back if
the very first bottle doesn’t do you a vjorld of good !
George L.etun.
Universal Star.
Relieves in
Yeast and Exercise
WHATEVER THE MERITS of the exerciser George Lewis
is using, he is also a firm believer in Cream of Yeast for Fitness.
THE OPINION OF THE PRESS
FROM SYDNEY NEWSPAPERS
Daily Telegraph (17/11/2?)
“ Yeast has long been knotvn as a
corrective in cases of blood disorders ,
and as such is constantly recommended
by medical men. The best form is
Cream of Yeast."
Sunday Times (26/2/28) :
“ Cream of Yeast . . has been
found invaluable to sufferers from
nervous disorders, debility and want
of tone genet ally."
Daily Guardian (11/10/28) ;
“ Cream of Yeast .. . —the handiest,
most convenient, safe way of toning
up the system ...”
Labor Daily (1/11/27) :
“ Cream of Yeast is a re-vitaliser.
Its great beneficial health-giving
power lies in the fact that it quickly
tones up the whole system and so
corrects the trouble at its root . . .
The combination of essential sub-
stances . . . make Cream of Yeast the
greatest tonic pick-me-up known."
AT THE RIGHT, in bathing costume, is Marian Nixon, Universal
Star. This clever girl leads in several thrilling 1929 pictures.
AT THE RIGHT is a fine athletic scene from the Universal College-romance , “ Red
Lips." This film features Charles Rogers (of the famous war-picture “ Wings ”)
and Marian Nixon. Both these popular stars are most enthusiastic in their praise oj
Cream of Yeast.
Cream of Yeast has received a strikingly unanimous volume of
testimony. Famous people, newspapers, chemists and members of
the public have joined in approving it. And the sales of Cream of
Yeast are greater than those of all other yeast medicines combined.
When you take Cream of Yeast you take the best and most practical
all-round tonic pick-me-up money can buy. Quick, Safe and Reliable.
Sold by all good Chemists.
24 Tablets, 1/11; 48 Tablets, 8/6; 125 Tablets, 5/9.
;>
sissag
:Sv. :>*..
fy
U
•ill tLcse Film
Stars take
Cream of
Yeast .
o
.Cream of Yeast is the Best Way to Better Health.
Ask your Chemist or Storekeeper for a package to-day!
If not near chemist or store, post your order to Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building, Sydney.
CREAM OF YEAST
FOR BOILS:
Carwell Street, Rylstone.
To Amalgamated Laboratories,
Dear Sirs, —I can honestly say Cream of Yeast is the best
remedy for Boils that I have ever tried. .1 may state I was
treated by three doctors for boils without success, and I tried
no less than 12 other remedies without success, but after taking
three bottles of Cream of Yeast, the boils all disappeared, and
I have never had one since, which I think a very good trial.
Yours, faithfully,
(Signed) CHARLES BLACK.


yO^
* Insist upon
Gc^lPdlCDMl’S
GIN
The Ingredients used in the production of
GORDON'S GIN are of the finest quality
procurable, and contain the greatest per-
centage of those important properties which
are considered by the Medical Profession
to be most beneficial to the human system.
It is very highly rectified and contains no
impurities of any kind; it is therefore very
easily digested and alsp aids the digestion
of other beverages with which it is mixed.
The name u GORDON ” guarantees the
very highest standard of quality and abso-
lute purity: a reputation enjoyed and
jealously guarded for over 150 years.
Obtainable
Everywhere
The
Largest Gin
Distillers
in the
World
By Appointment.
?Y\
Gordons
c>™ '-r»
dry Gin
PttSmLIIKY.
6.<vaL|b iff LBWbow
TANOUIRAV. GORDON 4C* t *
tmAm : i §3*m jtonMgg
df
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Published Every Tuesday
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 64-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Its up-to-date weekly pattern
is free for the asking.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co*,
214 George Street, Sydney.
‘dWAfff
POUHTK6NS
Self-filling type from 17/6.
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS.
Lumbago
A Form of Rheumatism .
This painful trouble will often defy ordinary
rheumatic salts and kidney pills, but it
yields to Harrison’s Pills. The reason is
that Harrison’s Pills get rid of the cause as
nothing else can. The best and quickest
relief known. Every chemist has Harrison’s
Pills in three sizes, at 2/-, 3/- and 5/-.
Don’t wait; don’t suffer. Try Harrison’s Pills
now—it’s a remedy you can really trust.
■
:
penalty
this
you p*y
Will
V .)
; ■:
'
Pyorrhea penalizes 4 out °f 5
What a grim penalty Pyorrhea exacts for neglect! It spreads
its poison through the system, undermines health, destroys precious
youth and beauty. And four persons out of five after 40 (and
thousands younger) get caught in its relentless grip.
Yet, with reasonable care, you need never fear Pyorrhea. If you
have tender, bleeding gums, see your dentist at once for an
examination. And start the habit of using Forharis for the gums.
Used regularly and in time, Forhans thwarts Pyorrhea, or checks
its vicious course. It firms the gums and keeps them healthy. It
protects teeth against acids which cause decay. It keeps them
snowy white. ,
Forhan s, the formula of R. J. Forhan,
D.D.S., contains Forhan’s Pyorrhea Liquid,
used by dentists everywhere.
Safeguard your health. See your dentist
twice a year. Start using Forhan s to-day,
and use it regularly morning and night. Teach
your children the same good habit. Play safe
—get a tube to-day. Price, 2/3 and 3/6.
Obtainable from all chemists and stores, or will
be sent post free upon receipt of the price by
the Australian Agents, The Sheldon Drug Co.,
Ltd., 131 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Formula of R. J. Forhan, D.D.S.,
Forhan Company, New York.
Forhaifs for the gums
MORE THAN A TOOTH PASTE ... IT CHECKS PYORRHEA
' X
rhal
3X
FOft- k ; ;
E Gill
t HWISp
\ *»TH it**
RMUIA
3S
■SuMimiM
>£>U «
'•" * '*
pSfIAN CO
T»r
The Rug that Beats the Yearling
IT’S THERE TO STAY
BEENIE’S BETTER RUG
USED BY ALL FOREMOST BREEDERS
AND TRAINERS.
“A” Quality, for turning out, is made of Thom-
son super flax canvas, lined with warm wool
sft., 51/6; sft. 9in., 53/6; 6ft., 55/-
“ES” Quality, for racehorses. A light rug made of white
Manhattan duck, lined with warm wool check.
sft. 6in., 43/9; sft. 9in., 45/-; 6ft., 47/-
Add 2/9 per Rug for Freight.
Sg>>
We have other Styles and Qualities priced as low as 20/6 for a oft. 6in. Rug.
Write for List and Samples.
STEWART HORSE-CLIPPING MACHINE
The Little Machine that does Big Work.
Price, 57/6 complete. Freight extra. Spare Comb and Cutter, 12/6 pair.
Sharpening, 3/- pair. Post extra.
Write for Saddlery catalogue.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON, LTD.,
395 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.


A Camel
travels 11 days, SAFELY
on ONE wafer supply*
ra
1
-»s
-at
«-
* 'V
Your Car
500 miIes,SAFELY on >
ONE complete lubrication /
Drive a camel beyond his “lubrication” limit
and there is trouble. So it is with a motor
car. Then you meet the irresistible forces of
wear and tear and friction. You pay repair
bills of which 80 per cent are due to this one
easily avoided cause.
Of course you will not take this chance when
Alemite —the scientific method of complete
lubrication—may be had so easily and econom-
ically. For with Alemite, used regularly every
500 miles, the chief soulr'ce o|f mechanical
trouble is removed.
Alemite forces lubricant, under tremendous
pressure, to every Vital Chassis Bearing on
your car. It pushes out old, gritty grease, forc-
ing in clear, clean, solidified oil. That's why 95
per cent of all American cars now manufac-
tured are equipped with Alemite.
We suggest you ask your nearest dealer or
write for full particulars.
What Alemite-ing Does
1. BEARINGS: Genuine AXemite High Pressure
lubricant forced into every vital chassis bear-
ing with Alemite equipment. Every 500 miles.
2. GEARS: Differential and transmission thor-
oughly flushed out by a special Alemite process.
New Alemite Gear Lubricant forced in. Every
2,500 miles.
3. SPRINGS: Given an Alemite Graphite
Spring Bath. They are sprayed with special
Alemite Graphite Penetrating Oil —every 500
miles. Eliminates squeaks and makes car run
smoother.
Genuine Alemite-ing—every 500
miles—costs no more than ordinary,
inefficient “greasing.” Then notice
how your repair bills decrease; how
much better your car runs.
dcATSJ
.vsichtV
See your nearest dealer or write for particulars.
ALEMITE MANUFACTURING CORPORATION
DIVISION OF STEWART-WARNER
Chicago, U.S. A.
Full particulars from
MR. KENNETH J.G. SMITH
Resident Manager,
250 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Or from the following Representatives:
Bennett & Wood, Ltd 284 Pitt Street, Sydney
Motor Supplies, Ltd Brisbane
Atkins (W. A.), Ltd 894 Hay Street, Perth
E. A. Machin & Co., Ltd. . 535 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne
Cornell Limited, 122 Pirie Street, Box G. P. 0., 496 E., Adelaide
For the Dominion of New Zealand:
Jas. J. Niven & Co., . 152 Wakefield Street, Wellington, N. Z.
ALEMITE
High Pressure Lubrication
IMS*.
A LooK at London.
BY ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
THE most terrible thing in London is its
loneliness.
We Sydneysiders, who troop into the
city from the suburbs nearly every sunny
afternoon, look forward with a certainty of
meeting chance acquaintances for a yarn in
our cosy nafrow streets. We cannot walk a
hundred yards without greeting a friend or
seeing someone we know bv sight. At any
street corner we may run into someone who
is glad to see us and stop for a word. In
London, however, a familiar face is like a
miracle. Only by the rarest chance do you
discover somebody you know. One of my
frequent routes was from Trafalgar-square
down the Strand to Fleet-street; and, dur-
ing my last visit, only thrice in traversing
the Strand did I meet anybody I knew.
Occasionally I have eagerly stopped a man,
only to learn that I had accosted a “double”
from Sydney or Melbourne. But even that
adventure was grateful: it was something
even to speak to a total stranger in that
dumb city.
Afflicted by this loneliness, I have noted a
familiar sign over a newspaper office in
Fleet-street, and eagerly made my way to
the headquarters of some Sydney or Mel-
bourne journal. Butting into the manager’s
office I have asked, “Anybody here who
speaks Australian?” Then there has been
a cordial meeting, and I have heard our
familiar speech again. All Australians are
blood-brothers in that distant warren.
Occasionally, in the environs of Australia
fi’ouse or New Zealand House, I have met
my own countrymen, and once inside these
buildings a stranger is at home; but the
death of IT. N. Southwell leaves a gap
in the communications. Once, in a London
suburb, after midnight, I heard my name
gasped as a man and his wife approached. No
explorers in the desert of Sahara could have
welcomed each other more warmly than
these acquaintances greeted me, and I felt
that I had recovered a long-lost brother. In
Sydney we would have merely passed by.
Here we stood talking, talking of Sydney,
for half an hour, missing ’buses and trains,
yarning, and yearning for Martin-place.
For the solitary wanderer in London there
is a friendliness, nevertheless. The pave-
ment cafes are always ready to greet
you at any hour of the night or early morn-
ing. They arrive, spick and span, in their
little wheeled stalls at the hour of nine,
and they do not shut up till 4 a.m. They
are spotlessly clean, and do varied trade,
from tea to hot-dogs. In front of these
cafes you will find girls and men in evening
dress returning from a dance ; and cars pull
up for food and drink and tobacco. London
is always awake.
The main trouble of England has been
beer —and it is excellent beer. But I am
amazed now at the enormous consumption
of spirits. In my private hotel, a quite
respectable place, equivalent to high-class
establishments in Sydney, the women, young
and old, were accustomed to slip out after
dinner to the nearest ladies’ lounge, just
round the corner. There is always a public-
house just round the corner in London. The
ladies’ bar is now almost as prominent a
feature of the London scene. A group of the
inhabitants of the private hotel, from girls
to grandmothers, made the pilgrimage every
evening. They showed a nice discrimination
in their choice of curious drinks.
Said a nice young married woman: “It
was due to the war. The girls were put to
more strenuous tasks than standing behind
the shop-counter; many had to take a hand
in farmers’ work. Often half the staff of a
shop would be sent down to cultivate a farm
that was without labor. It was great fun
for them. Their menfolk were in France
or at war-work. These girls found they were
doing men’s jobs, and naturally they felt
they should have equal rights with the men.
So they sought a ‘kick’ after their ex-
haustion.”
Just round the corner was a public-house
—quite public: open to the street. There,
after their evening meal, married women
and single gathered. Mothers brought their
babies in prams or carried them, and the
little toddlers sat on the step. I don’t know
when the house opened—there are different
hours in different quarters—but I know when
it closed: half-past ten. In the “women’s
hour” there were fewer men there than
women, and many more children and babies.
Regularly I would see the prams parked. The
women could not take their babies into the
bar, but there were always older children to
mind the infants. Often I have seen a
mother bring out a brightly-colored drink for
baby. The pub at the corner—at nearly
every corner—is to-day’s paradise for Lon-
don’s fecundity.
Life for the poor is bitter; but there are
no revolutionaries among the poor of London.
They accept their lot. They are soddenly
content. Some are poorer, some are better
off; but each class pays its dues to the other
classes, and gets repaid in kind. Each is
happy enough within itself. There is never
any doubt about the classification. The
speech marks the individual. Here in Aus-
tralia the classes are always in a flux, rising
and falling, but with no chasm to leap over,
such as the final “g” or an ineradicable
hesitation over the “h.” No newly-rich could
do the “blah-blah-blah” that is heard in all
its pellucid beauty in the English House of
Commons. It is only our bishops that can
manage that accent in Australia.
For a while in London I wondered where
the “lower classes” hid themselves. The
tubes did not carry them, though they were
sometimes to be found on top of the ’buses.
One day, however, I noticed an invasion
from another world. Into the impeccably
upholstered tube clumped three laborers, a
type utterly distinct from the smug and
silent passengers in the train. Nobody took
the least notice of them, except that a smart
young flapper moved quietly away. The
three troglodytes, evidently from a job deep
down in London clay, vaguely felt that they
had no right to be there. Still, they had
to get home to some distant suburb. Their
clothes were yellow with muck. They dragged
their heavy boots across the carpet in the
t. ub . e - It seemed to me that as they dragged
their feet they creaked, as if they had not
been oiled. About them were spruce business
men and idle flappers, the latter inches
taller than these invaders from the depths.
■I hey were very careful, I noticed, not to
brush against the other passengers. One
could not guess their ages, though it appeared
to i ne , at tlle y were s tiH young. They
made their way with deliberation, ventured
to relapse into three comfortable padded
seats, and planted their feet solidly on the
floor. \\ ith infinite precautions one ventured
to cross his legs. He sighed with content.
Lhey said nothing. There was no intelli-
gence m their faces. They were no Robots;
they lacked the necessary efficiency. Their
language I could not understand, but they
had little need of speech—they were content
to relax, like cows chewing the cud. Occasion-
ally a wary glance was shot from their little
bright eyes. They seemed to fear a snare.
Ihey were glad to unhinge their legs, and
deliberately lift themselves up from their
seats, with doubtless a drink to cheer them-
selves on their way home.
In an article I wrote for one of the Lon-
don papers about the tubes no reference was
made to that strange encounter. These
invaders were not ‘‘nice”; they are not writ-
ten about.
But what a genial person is the Londoner
the city Londoner! There is a give-and-
take with him that is not known in the
cities of Australia. The traffic constable, a
revolving lighthouse, will break into a smile
on the slightest provocation. His greatest
joy is to convoy a mob of children across
a seething Circus. It is his specialty. The
London policeman is supposed to know his
London as he knows his ABC; but once
in Regent-street he could not tell me an
address only a few streets away. “I’m new
on. this street,” he smilingly confessed.
“First time I’ve been on this point: it’s not
my district, sir! Try the other constable!”
The London constable’s smile haunts me still.
And the man-on-the-street is as kind as a
maiden aunt. From the top of a ’bus he has
climbed down the stairs with me to direct
me to a doubtful address. “It’s a bit diffi-
rull to find, sir,” was his apology. Here
in Australia we off-handedly point out one’s
direction, and ' expect the stranger to use
his brains.
True, London is a trap for the stranger.
T fere and there some kind person has thought
of numbering the buildings, but it does not
work out in practice. If I owned London
the first job I would tackle would be the
ivnumbering of the city. Apparently Mr.
Einstein had been engaged on the job. The
visitor wants, for instance, No. 36 in a cer-
tain square. He gets on the trail and goes
confidently along until he arrives at No. 35.
The next house is No. 7. Ultimately ho
finds, or doesn’t find, the missing number.
The theory is that every Londoner knows his
way about, and strangers can learn.
It is apparently a settled policy to stick
up the monuments and important buildings
in the most convenient by-ways. Except
in the case of Trafalgar-square and White-
hall, most of the famous memorials and
statues are in narrow lanes discreetly hiding.
Very few even of the lovely command an
open view. None but a Londoner would
allow a hideous viaduct to bisect the view
of St. Paul’s from Fleet-street. The Strand,
most famous of streets in the world, is a
narrow channel given over to mean shops
and criss-crossed by little dreary alleys.
Occasionally the statues are laundered, but
from Nelson on his spike to the innumerable
effigies forgotten in desolate squares, the city
is apparently dignified by the effigies of
negroes. Nelson is quite black. But if any-
body ventured to wash him there would be
a revolution.
The habit of sticking noble churches and
monuments in unexpected corners, is, how-
ever, one of the charms of London. What
delightful vistas open as you stroll past—
green lawns and exquisite Gothic, the spire
of a grey old church, with nobody ever
venturing to enter! just round
the corner, waiting in dignified seclusion to
unveil its dawning beauties. Paris gives
noble approaches to every monument, com-
manding enormous vistas; but the stranger
from Australia prefers the ingrained modesty
of London.
But let us get back to the Londoner,
who, incidentally, cares very little for old
monuments. One of his peculiarities is his
habit of singing. At the Marble Arch —an
arch that does not allow any person to go
through it —there can be found every evening
a crowd of people singing. One might wonder
what they are singing about, or why. The
Londoner breaks into song without reason—
and often without rhyme. We Australians
content ourselves with barracking.
There are two Londons on the map, sharply
bisected by a river. The south side of
the Thames is a huddle of ugly buildings,
except, for the pride of the city, opposite
the Houses of Parliament. There are bridges,
ugly or fine; and there is plenty of traffic
between the two sections. But while the
city north of the Thames dignifies the
Embankment, the poorer relation remains
with a shore consisting of bleak mudflats
and tumble-down buildings. London is only
half a city. In Paris there are a score
of bridges, of noble proportions and beauti-
ful. spanning the city. Each side of the
Seine vies with the other in grace.
What will be the future of this gargantua?
Already it is almost clogged up. And when
the motor-car, after a full hour’s journey,
reaches the green fields, there are still more
suburbs in course of erection. Greater Lon-
don is daily growing greater. Soon, it almost
seems, all England will be one city, with the
downs the only large breathing-spaces. Hap-
pily of smaller breathing-spaces there are
many: London is wonderfully provided with
parks. But all England is being urbanised.
In the country there are wide arterial roads
of shining concrete, with by-paths making
new routes across the fields. Even on these
by-paths there is no dawdling-, for all traffic
(Continued on page 57.)


Banking, Public Companies, etc.
THE AUSTRALIAN
BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £5,000.000
Capital Paid Up and Reserves .. .. £3.360.9G5
Aggregate Assets at 30th June, 1928.. £18,623,153
Directors:
Sir MARK SHELDON, K.8.E., Chairman.
FRANK N. YARWOOD; H. It. LYSAGHT, 0.8. E. ;
GEORGE J. SLY, LL.D.; Lieut.-Col. T. L. F.
RUTLEDGE; JAMES KELL.
GENERAL MANAGER ; C. M. C. SHANNON.
CHIEF INSPECTOR: W. G. HULL.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY
(Corner George and King Streets).
LONDON BRANCH : 62 Bishopsgate, E.C.2.
The BANK is represented by I 86 Branches
and Receiving Offices throughout Aus-
tralia, with Agents and Correspondents
at all Chief Cities throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF GENERAL BANKING
& EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares .. .. .. 1,875,009
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 616,210
Ordinary Shares .. .. .. 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 3,732,525
GRANTS DRAFTS Zealand, Fiji' ’ Samoa,
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE g HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
Fire on ail classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. 0. Dawson, Sec. 11. E. Robinson, Gen. Manager.
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
to succeed —
THINK OF
sd
SCHUTE,
BELL&Cuo.
If you have
Woo! & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention.
Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Australian
and New-Zealander, (id. weekly—an illus-
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi
ally invited to visit-the British A ustralian
and New Zealander Iteading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.C.2, where they can see the home
papers, meet their friends, use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd., 350 George Street, Sydney:
or 434 Collins Street, Melbourne,
tlbe dominion.
Nezv Zealand’s
National Morning Daily.
Published in Wellington
the
Commercial, Political, Social and
Geographical Centre of
New Zealand.
The Daily with the
greatest influence on
the life of the com-
munity.
No advertising campaign de-
signed to cover New Zealand
can have that 100 per cent,
effectiveness unless “The Do-
minion'' is included. Particu-
lars of advertising rates can be
had on application either direct
to—
P.O. IJOX 1481, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
Or from —
All Leading Advertising Agents
the World Over.
Shipping, etc.
uf
r ,i
1ft
i. VTI
',1“»
ft
7Y 'i
ENJOY WINTER IN PACIFIC ISLES
RAPIDLY growing in popularity, the Winter Excur-
sions from Sydney to Raratonga and Papeete
(Tahiti) may yet rival the old-established holiday trips
to Honolulu. The swift trans-Pacific steamers of the
Union Royal Mail Line afford a superb ocean holiday,
as well as a glimpse of New Zealand’s Capital.
Forward booking is advisable to ensure picked accom-
modation on these island excursions.
Raratonga and Tahiti
via Wellington
£55 First and £4O Second (return)
Maunganui leaves Sydney June 13
Tahiti ~ „ July 11
Honolulu via Auckland
and Suva
£75 First and £55 Second (return)
Makura leaves Sydney June 27
Aorangi „ „ July 25
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY, 247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne, Cl.
mmsssm
m
in
mmM
II lIS
wmmm,
A VISIT TO JAVA
(The Garden of the East)
Seven weeks’ wonderful tour, via Brisbane, Queens-
land Ports, Thursday Island, Torres Strait & Darwin,
including 14 days’ escorted motor trip through Java.
Leaving Sydney on the 6th June, 1929, and 7th
August, 1929, by the magnificent steamer
“MARELLA7SOO TONS
Swimming Bath, Gymnasium, Deck Cabins, Verandah
Cafe, etc.
First-class inclusive round fare covering all
expenses —Steamer trip, Hotels, Motor-cars,
Guides, Tips, etc.:
From Melbourne £135 0 0
From Sydney £129 0 0
From Brisbane £l2B 10 0
vJ
BURNS, PHILPg? COMPANY LIP.
SYDNEY AND BRANCH OFFICES
Come and See —See and Stay.
HAWAII
HAWAII
HAWAII
To enable holiday makers and travellers to visit
these beautiful island gems of the South Pacific,
excursion rates are available ail the year round.
First-class passages from £75, second-class from
£55, with first-class Hotel Accommodation as
low as from 12/- to £3 per day with meals,
assist the pleasure seeker to make the Hawaiian
Islands the real dream holiday.
Surfing, surfboard-riding, golf, tennis and
motoring (motorists may bring their own cars
or hire one locally at exceptionally low rates),
can all be indulged to the fullest in ideal
surroundings. Inter-island cruises. Visit
Kilauea volcano.
Come, here is the holiday of a lifetime offering
in
HAWAII—HAWAII —HAWAII
Inquire fullest particulars at all steamship or
travel agents, or from this office direct.
HAWAII TOURIST BUREAU,
Dept. 26, Box 162788, G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
South Africa and England
by
THE BLUE FUNNEL
AND
WHITE STAR—ABERDEEN
JOINT SERVICE
A combined service offering unequalled
facilities at moderate rates.
fThemistocles 11,500 tons, June 10
.... 12,500 „ July 10
*Ascanius . . 10,000 „ July 22
f Euripides . 15,000 » Aug. 6
Nestor .... 15,000 ~ Sept. 9
*First class only. fFirst and Third class.
s“Cabin” class only.
For full particulars apply to
Dalgety 8 Co., Ltd. )
Gilchrist, Watt 8 Sanderson Ltd.)
Joint
Agents
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
WALES
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund..
Reserve Liability
fs
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20,900,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER 30, 10 28> £88,982,585.
General Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneed e t.,
554 Blanches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Terntory, New wndd’
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Corresponded g '
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Dills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout, b
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
FOR BRISBANE. MACKAY, TOWNSVILLE, CAIRNS
(Transhipping for outports).
TO EUROPE—
Via UNITED STATES & CANADA
See Honolulu, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Chicago,
Niagara Falls, New York, Vancouver, Montreal,
Quebec, and travel across the Atlantic on one of
the luxurious CUNARD LINERS, including the
R.M.S. Aquitania, R.M.S. Berengaria,
46,000 tons. 54,000 tons.
R.M.S. Mauretania,
30,000 tons.
In conjunction with
THE CANADIAN-AUSTRALASIAN ROYAL MAIL
LINE.
Via VANCOUVER.
UNION ROYAL MAIL LINE.
OCEANIC-MATSON LINE.
Via SAN FRANCISCO.
Return Tickets issued by the Suez Canal and Cape
Lines are available for this route.
Apply for particulars of reduced through rates to
UNION STEAM SHIP CO, LTD.,
OCEANIC-MATSON LINE,
or
CUNARD LINE (C. & D. Line),
1 Bent Street, Sydney.
Splendid Cheap Service
Via Suez Canal
FAST OIL BURNERS
In conjunction with Sailings via South Africa.
Excellent Menu. Late Dinner.
Fares to London from £3B.
P. 8 0. BRANCH SERVICE
For particulars apply
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, Ltd.
Box 513 AA, 5 O’Connell St., Sydney.
’Phone: 15G701
Brisbane,
viaBYRONBAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
SS. OItAKA —Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
SS WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evenug;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
fares. —
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/0/-
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/-
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CHALLIS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Huddart Parker L'^
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND —Regular sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA —From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston as per daily papers.
For full particulars apply HUDD ART PARKER LI MITGD
Collins Street, Melbourne; Bridge Street, Sydney.
% /
i?
fr
H
ii
ER
NARCH
Cig&iy
Craig kAitken
■ Wholesale
Distributors
Sydney NSW
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for the original.


A MEDICINE CHEST IN ITSELF/
0:
V
X
n
dfs
w
to
aIC *•*!» *e * e
^ iel *f g»«* W *
sIIOO «« * nd w . etV aod
** * g*“ eS t W' te C " but uo «*"*
* cWOCeS o ootbiug- o ces *
huo
,&* cc
s cteO
lists
d atc . ; c o stuf * M s.
\tvd
Vvotvs 6
settop
a UO
a
. £ ot
ot 11
tuatf
litde ">'
3itV
SSSB*^
AS
(50 0 *s£f**‘#»*i*
©SsftS®
oVjwV
assgSg
jVt<!}> - >«■
1
df
• s'*
RO3K
For backward children .
Food
Reg. Trade Hark.
There is nothing better
than Benger’s Food for
backward children. A cup-
ful between meals, and at
bed-time, provides just
what is wanted.
Send jar Benger’s Booklet, post free..
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd.,
3SO, George Street, SYDNEY.
“Suburban ”
Afforestation
Every person who has read or has been told
about afforestation —whether he has invested
or not —should send for particulars now of
A.N.Z.I.L. PERPETUAL INCOME AND
THRIFT BONDS.
A gilt-edged investment and an entirely new conception ot afforestation offering
IMMEDIATE, INTERMEDIATE and FUTURE RETURNS, with the soundest principles of
scientific and properly-conducted planting for profit yet offered.
Afforestation and Flax—Plus Interest and Insurance.
Investigate!—To do so is to INVEST.
AUSTRALIAN & NEW ZEALAND INVESTMENTS, LTD.,
17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
must keep a swift pace. England has gone
mad over speed. Luckily many of the de-
lightful little villages that dot the country-
side are avoided by the wide arterial roads.
The lanes are too narrow for the enormous
’buses: and so the tiny villages are safe
from the smell of petrol. Thus there still
are beauty spots for the tourist to see.
When a London newspaper announced
that it would map out a delightful walk for
those people who like to dawdle on foot, the
series suddenly stopped. So many thou-
sands of Londoners took the paper’s advice
that there was no peace left in the country.
Yet England is a contented little island,
There is incredible good-nature in the hearts
of its millions. There is poverty such as
we do not know in Australia. But they are
hard to up-root. Their ignorance of any
place beyond England is to us Australians
amazing. They are distrustful of migrating
as long as they can subsist—even if it be
on the dole. They are a family people,
All England is a family. There may be
divisions and bitterness and strife, as there
always is in a family; but there is always
give and take. In their hearts they know
that they are one. Our strikes in Australia
are bitter—so bitter that it seems that the
antagonists must hate each other with all
their hearts; but in England there is in every
Englishman’s heart the assurance that he is
part of the family, no matter how lowly,
The King and the Queen are but the heads
of it.
And even the duck—famous now—that
decided to change with her family of duck-
lings from her wonted feeding-place to
Buckingham Palace was carefully escorter.
across the road by a policeman.
The City of Silence.
LON L. IDRIESS’S FASCINATING STORY OF TEN MINUTES IN A PEARL-
DIVER'S LIFE.
BILLY BANNER stepped clumsily over-
side and down the short ladder; then
through many pretty bubbles he slid
down, down, down, and ungracefully landed
in the mud.
“Missed,” he grinned. Billy often spoke
to himself when down below. He liked com-
pany, and a little conversation felt homely',
lie had plenty of company down here, but
they were not playing speaks, and their in-
tentions were mostly hostile. Of the sunlit
world all he had was the air within his
diving suit and the laughter in his heart.
He stood gazing, planning out his way.
The green twilight was exceptionally clear,
and seemed to focus upon Billy, who sagged
in a sea of mud. “Like a waddling duck
in a thunderstorm of silence,” he mused.
Ahead, at what looked far distance, though
really it was very close, lie spied a shadow,
a queer shadow. Cautiously he lumbered
on. And down to his belt quite silently he
went. Instantly he tugged the life-line once
and shut off the air-escape valve and
hummed “Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay.”
Billy had lived a long life down below —
had lived it because lie never got excited
when Death beckoned. So now lie hummed
an old-time song with submarine mud creep-
ing to his armpits, still hummed as In 1 felt
the steady pull on the line which lifted him
from the sucking mass. As lie shot up he
unscrewed the air-escape valve to produce a
whiz of bubbles while he tugged two short
and two long strokes on the line Gradually
his ascent stopped as his dress subsided to
normal. Then he tugged three times. The
tender above, in perfect accord with the sig-
nals. ran up the jib, and, raising the anchor
just off the bottom, slowly moved ahead.
And Billy, a suspended bundle of ugliness,
was gently carried forward a fathom above
the mud.
Eerily he drifted, this monster who looked
so much a part of the grim water-world and
yet was not of it. He did not eye the bottom,
for no pearl-shell lives on mud. He watched
the shadow taking form ahead, overwhelming
in its magnified mightiness, and grinned
cheerfully as he saw that the course of the
lugger up above was going to bump him
right into that shadow. After tugging twice
and shaking the line once, he saw the trail-
ing anchor subside into the mud. Tugging
next four times he knew the lugger would
not move until “talked to” again. Two tugs
and a shake and down to the bottom he
went, in front of one of the unknown won-
ders of the sea, maybe of the world.
A column of stone rose before him, which
Billy estimated to be sixty feet in height
with a base seventy feet across. The top he
knew to be flat and about six feet across,
the whole composed of large, rounded stones.
He knew that along the coastline just out
from Toori-toori (New Guinea) lay others
of these columns. He liked to think of them
as the City of Silence.
Had the city been silent a thousand or
twenty thousand years. He stared up, this
motionless ogre at the bottom of the sea.
And the pillar towered hazily up through
the water, an indestructible ghost peering
through the veil of Time.
What human hands, dust before the build-
ing of the Pyramids, had reared these towers?
Wh at manner of people these whose cities
had been engulfed? Billy thought of Easter
Island, with its mystery monuments, and of
the pottery dug from deep below 7 the solid
earth in New Guinea goldfields: he puzzled
over the super-men of wondrous powers and
culture still hazily preserved in the legends
of the natives.
He lifted a leaden foot, put it upon a
stone, hesitated, then, smiling delightedly,
began, climbing. This Silent City of his
held a powerful appeal.
Between the stones grew sponges and weird
marine things. Billy chuckled, for wherever
sponges grow there grows also the fat pearl-
shell. He glimpsed pearl and smiled as it
vanished like the tail of a firefly. He
reached amongst the fernery and wrenched
off the bashful shell, and chuckled again at
a vanishing gleam higher amongst the rocks.
He loved this game of hide-and-seek with
the cunning oysters of the sea. They can
hear, those big pearl-oysters, or feel the
under-w’ater vibration of a diver’s foot —no
man yet knows which. They rest with lip
partly open, and the pearly gleam is like
a smiling girl’s teeth just glimpsed.
Billy’s fingers closed around a shell. the
size of a dinner-plate, a heavy -lump of in-
distinguishable stuff. Sea-grass grew upon
it, and parasite shells. Billy tucked it within
his bag, while a dozen big shells, stowed
among the rocks, hiding between the sponges
and curtained by the grasses, chuckled in
their under-water language. For they had
noted Billy’s coming and discreetly shut their
tell-tale mouths. Billy trod upon one, quite
oblivious of its presence.
Up and up he climbed, this creeping night-
mare, waist-deep amongst the grass. Little
fishes, sporting yellow stripes across their
tails, peered inquisitively into his face glass,
then fled in mistrust.
A rich rockery these pillars, fatly reward-
ing Billy’s search!
He packed the shell in a canvas bag. jamb-
ing the shell tight witli a ponderous move-
ment of his foot. He did not carry the net-
work l)Mg at the waist so often used.
Presently he had twenty-five shell, exceed-
ingly good work. lie signalled along the
line and up slid the bag; uncanny how
quietly all things are done down below! A
dream sack came gliding down, and Billy
was eager to repeat his harvest
He gripped a sponge that bellied against
his thigh, and, leaning well back, peered
through his side-glasses to spy around the
pillar. A sea-snake darted from out the
sponge, and its gleaming teeth snapped upon
his corselet. Utterly surprised and in pain-
ful need of a dentist, the abashed thing back-
somersaulted into the ferns. Jtilly chuckled
and climbed on, the expert tender above, by
slow inch and inch, drawing in the slack of
the line and air-pipe on deck.
Then Billy stood, his hand upon a rock
rounded by other hands whose dust was dis-
solved 1 ten thousand years ago. He reached
the top, very slow work against the water-
pressure, but the physical body felt light
owing to the compressed air within the suit.
On top he gazed around, as if from a peak
he spied upon a city. Here he could see but
a little distance, through green twilight some-
times speckled by darting fishes.
He signalled again, and could just dis-
tinguish the anchor gliding up. Then twist-
ing a loop in the life-line, he sat within
it, and as the vessel gathered way he was
lifted gently off the pillar and went slowly
trailing through the sea, as serenely as if
lie was part of it.
By and bye he distinguished stone and sea-
grass, and signalled to down anchor and
lower—a little manoeuvre which can be awk-
ward for the diver if the tender is not thor-
oughly experienced.
Billy landed gently and peered over one
of the blue mountains of the sea. Only the
blue was not there, except in patches where
walled rocks queerly reflected the sunlight
from God's sky above. A weird trick this
reflected light played far down in the murky
green ; for as invisible fish sped across one
grass-grown crevice, they colored to flaming
purple and vanished again.
Chasms were then 1 , too, black and forbid-
ding, of ominous depths. For here stretched
a sea ledge miles long, caused by earth-
torments when the world was young, which
tore away the crust and left this jagged
ledge.
To get more shell in safety Billy would
have to sail back and prospect through the
twilight. But here, though obviously danger-
ous, what riches might he not find ! Besides,
lie was of pioneer stock, and bubbling over
with that wonder and curiosity which impels
man ever onward. In the precipitous clefts
below he glimpsed vines trailing with phos-
phoric flowers and bulbous sponges, and
shadow-phantoms queer and without end.
And a silence that seemed to transmute the
soul of a man into the life of another world.
He marked a zig-zag ridge down which
he could walk, but, being a careful diver, he
gazed long and earnestly until he had dis-
covered a way by which he could come back
again. Then cautiously he began the descent
of that narrow ridge, noting where, away
below, it ran back upon itself like a winding
stair disappearing under a dark inner room.
Squeezing his sides were walls of water,
and beyond and below fantastic shapes which
were huge rock masses and indistinguishable
things.
He got down by degrees, then turned with
the winding stair directly under the ledge.
Here it rose cliff-like before him; under-
mining it were caves, gaping maws of black.
Billy adjusted his air-valve to the pres-
sure of this greater depth, and stood peer-
ing into the shadowed tangle. For the diver
must keep his mind very clear when down
below, must coolly calculate all chances be-
fore he ventures to move.
“It’s like a gnomes’ home in a pantomime,”
he chuckled, “and I wonder if the gnome
king is at home.”
A fish, its broad sides marked with what
looked like shining pennies, carrying a
webbed sail folded into a groove along his
back, and a sword poking from an aggres-
sive snout, dashed from the shadows, a flying
phantom. At his tail sped a long shimmering
eel-like shape, gnashing sharp teeth. The
sail-fish dodged, and the eel thing back-
pedalled on Billy’s face glass and swirled
below. He laughed at the amazement of the
fishes, then trudged forward toward a haze
of sponges.
In the darkening water he could distin-
guish shell, piu-points of light, but he studied
the roof of the ledge under which he must
go. He manoeuvred so that the lines would
stand no chance of fouling in any jagged
crevice, then ventured under the ledge, which
narrowed rapidly before him. Within the
narrowing clefts were sponges and intrigu-
ing shell—shell in such clumps that he would
only have to reach out his hands and fill
bag after bag.
He walked carefully forward. Presently
he stooped, but not in land fashion, for thus
the weighting of his dress would have toppled
him over. A fine clump of shell beckoned
.lust ahead, and he edged towards it inch bv
inch, eyes shining like a child’s when groping
for a toy. His helmet scraped on the sloping
roof and he sank back on his heels and edged
(Continued on next page.)


£S
V
\/ —-iX
\
ty
G
How Did That
Bad Leg Begin ?
may remember the day you felt
* the first soreness and pain—or recall
some simple wound or bruise, or breaking
the skin by scratching when your ankle
felt irritable. Or maybe (especially if
you are a woman) there’s an actual
breakdown of the fleshy tissues through
bad circulation and loss of vitality.
For healing chronic sores, old wounds and
leg ulcers, Zam-Buk is truly wonderful.
It stops the hot pain and irritation and
draws out all pus and disease. Its com-
plete success even in chronic cases is due
to the fact that its soothing and antiseptic
powers are backed by unusual stimulative
and healing properties.
Helping Nature to build up new tissue-
cells, Zam-Buk soon makes once-diseased
parts permanently strong and healthy
again. Get a box of this famous herbal
balm to-day and apply according to the
printed directions.
-Buk
am
FREE!
Samples of Zam-Buk Balm and Medi-
cinal Soap are sent post-paid on
request. Forward name and address to Messrs.
C. E. Fulford (Aust.), Ltd., P.O. Box 21, Surry
Hills, N.S.W. Regular size boxes 1/6 and 3/6
of all chemists.
On his left Mrs. Giles was visibly trying
to make up her mind whether to be offended
at being placed next to the creature or to
regard him as an original with the tolerance
one extends to the animals at a zoo.
On his right Maud plied him with the
whole battery of her charms. She coquetted
with lmn amazingly, that being the only
solace she could devise for the male in
distress. It brought Mr. Meikle out in
blotches both within and without. Maud
liked him, she was enjoying herself as she
nearly a ways did Maud, Fanny thought,
would always be happy. She thought it
a htt’e contemptuously. She doubted if
Maud had any great capacity lor emotions
or suffering. She was as people ought to
be. There were no creases in Maud, no
sharp turnings, nothing irrational — a person
who actually and without effort attained
happiness. And so, concluded Fanny, she
would never know ecstasy. ‘
She had succeeded in pitying and dis-
missing everyone at the table except the
man at her side. When she looked at him
the others turned by magic into card-
board figures. That lie was changed she
knew immediately he had stepped into
the room. He was finely dressed as she had
never seen him before; but it was not that,
significant though it was. There was in
his eyes, in his whole bearing, something
that was at once assuaged and hungry. The
Quartermaster had seen it too, “Like an
animal that has had a kill,” he thought
with a sudden distaste for the man.
To Fanny he was the conqueror come
home. She saw in him a new confidence
and a new fire, and she thought she under-
stood. This voyage had been crucial; he
was heavily in debt and if he had failed
this time, he would have been ruined. But
he had not failed. The season had been
too bad for Captain Bennett and the lesser
kind—they had driven home empty. But
he—Fanny knew that he had had a success-
ful voyage. It was in the air. Perhaps
his success meant more to him than keep-
ing his ship
When he first came in, standing in the
doorway, half a head taller than any other
man in the room, in his splendid suit of
royal blue over a white and silver waist-
coat, he had looked at her and at her only,
A second had stretched out to eternity
while the} 7 looked at one another, and then
he had bent over her hand. She had known
then that it was no idle impulse that had
hurried her into her new gown, It had
been a divine leading.
She stole a glance at him. He was much
thinner, his features were worn almost to
emaciation, and he was tanned by salt
and wind to a deeper brown, so that his
likeness to a sculptured head upon an
ancient coin was clearer than ever. She
thought him much improved—as if so much
dross had been scraped away, leaving him
translucent with the fire of his spirit. But
her heart tightened to think of the priva-
tions that had so fined him.
The talk drifted to her in gusts.
“What sort of voyage did you have,
Hildebrand?” Mr. Giles broke across the
reticulation of tete-a-tete.
“Good—that is, at the end.”
“Monstrous good!” put in the Quarter-
master. “He could hardly stagger into port,
he was loaded to the gunwales.”
“You must know something—the town’s
full of broke whalers,” Giles answered turn-
ing eagerly to Hildebrand. “The dirtiest
weather for thirty years and not a whale
in the sea. How did you do it, eh? We’d
given you up for lost!”
“I waited,” he said, with a curious lift-
ing smile as if he were secretly fingering
an immense satisfaction.
“We would love to hear about your
voyage, Captain Hildebrand,” said Fanny.
He shrugged; the smile was on his lips
again and he had an air of recklessness, a
swagger.
“Why not you tell them our little
adventures, Meikle?” he said. “I’m sure
you’d do it best,” and he raised his glass
with a gesture that Fanny realised was
curiously familiar.
Mr. Meikle had crumbled bread into his
sout) and was stirring it with his spoon.
He was ill at ease.
“Well,” said Mrs. Giles, suddenly turn-
ing on him.
Mr. Giles, being a little deaf, thrust for-
ward his head like a tortoise to hear the
better. Euphemia clasped her hands upon
her bosom and waited in that beautiful
pose. William attended discreetly to his
dinner. The Quartermaster, forgetting the
sacred board, rapped out in the voice he
had used when he really was a Quarter-
master, “What did happen?”
(Third Large Instalment Next Week. )
forward crab fashion, wdth pauses to adjust
the air valve.
Again the helmet scraped, and this time
he reached out his hand. The shells re-
mained aggravatingly six inches from his
finger-tips. He grew warm with eagerness,
Creeping forward another two inches, he
just tipped a shell. Another inch, and he
pulled out a prize; then he relaxed his
body and began placing shell after shell
within the bag.
Green and yellow sea-grasses flattened
against his face-glass, but the shells were so
thickly placed that he could feel them. The
hag was filled, all hut a last shell. Reaching
to. fit it within the bag, he leaned the least
trifle forward, and almost felt the sobbing
sound that fastened around his helmet.
Billy remained as still as the grave. He
was jambed fast at the bottom of the sea!
Of the world above all that remained to him
was the air within his suit. How sweet and
distinct now was the smell of india-rubber
coining down with the air from the motor-
pumps above. But the weight of the sea
and all within it were silently leagued
against him.
Then once more Billy began “Ta-ra-ra-
boom-de-ay.” IR* must drown this sense
of fearful loneliness; he. must not lose his
head for a second.
Tlierc lingered one, faint hope. Quietly
he thanked God that the tender above had
been to the war. He understood Morse.
Would he grasp impromptu signals now?
Would superb seamanship do the rest?
Would the way he was jambed and the ledge
of rock reaching far out allow the job to be
done without tearing away the air-pipe?
Still humming, lie groped behind for a
grip on the line and began tugging out his
predicament in long and short jerks.
Very slow the job was, very painful, and
presently air pressure in the cramped posi-
tion forced slow, warm drops of blood from
his nostrils. After a lifetime he gasped,
f or the line in his hand spoke back the mes-
sage, “Keep your tail up!”
He visualised the up-anchoring, the jib
flying up and the steady manoeuvring to
gently sail straight out in a line with the
slowly tautening life-line; then the line to
its limit, and the grim chances before he
took the fateful pull; By the quivering
strain on the lino, Billy’s fingers wirelessed
him exactly what was happening above. His
heart thudded as his helmet crunched; then
he hummed “Ta-ra-ra-booin-de-ay,” even
while he felt himself being wrenched in
halves by the straining of the line. It
seemed that tin* world expanded when lie
was pulled out, but the rope instantly slack-
cued, and lie was on the bottom of the sea
signalling “Don’t move!”
He lay there a while ; then, rising with the
life-line, he walked carefully out from under
the ledge*, gazed up to make sure that n<»-
thing was in the way, and gave the signal
to haul up.
On deck, when they unscrewed his face-
glass, he was still humming “Tn-ra-ra-boom-
de-ay.”
Ships That Never Return.
Sailing an ocean that has not been charted,
Sailing an ocean that knowetli no shore,
Argos of life have for ever departed,
Outgoing Agos, returning no more.
Short-freighted with joy, over-burthened with
sorrow,
O’er a dim skyline, unnumbered, they fade,
Bound for the ports.of a timeless to-morrow,
Bound for the harbor of Silence and Shade.
Each anxious captain, commanding his
shallop,
Maketh his passage as best to him seems,
Held by dull calms, or, anon, as they gallop,
Driven amain by the winds of his dreams.
What matters the voyage once it is over?
And over for all one day it must be.
Mayhap it will matter what cargo the rover
Renders to Him who is Lord of the Sea.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.
Fate.
Fate, I have nothing asked of thee,
And never will, I trow;
1 had to go, howe’er it be,,
As I am going now.
Before I came the die was cast,
And hope and fear are vain;
My drought, if I am dry, will last,
Howe’er I pray for rain.
And if my field of life be bare,
Or more, more green than- all,
It is a hap that everywhere
To any may befall.
And Death, when he comes, can but do
As he’s to others done —
Dry up my blood as a drop of dew
That's glistened in the sun.
N.S.W.
R. CRAWFORD.
Tramping Wind.
The wind has gone on the wallaby
As far as the dustless sea.
He rolled the rainbow to make a swag,
There are honey-bees in his sugar bag
And a rose for memory.
The wind has gone on the wallaby.
He carried a green gum switch;
He harries the boughs as he passes by
And they creak, “ ’Tis a broomstick from the
sky
That is ridden by a witch.”
The wind has gone on the wallaby.
He forgot the drowsy hill;
And we pant in the valley, wondering
When he returns will the traveller bring
That red rose living still?
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Legacy.
If the world grows weary of the race
And stumbling falls
Down, down into the deep id ace,
With the ether walls
Trembling above like the cliffs of an awful
dream,
What should be left of all wo did or sought
But fossil dust in the storm
Of a roaring sun in a new current caught
That flames but has no form?
Yet blind force in all the jeons that were
Left less than we shall leave
Whose lips have found the words of a lover’s
prayer,
Whose hearts have learned to grieve
For the dead thing and the sweet thing that
comes no more
Under any shadow of trees or by any door.
DAVID MCKEE WEIGHT.


•5 V 'W
m
WESTING HOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in Jtock—-wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES « CHIKCH, Brisbane.
N.55. Oiliee —UH-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian OHIce—“Chancery House/’ 485 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
South Australian Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide, S.A.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES
“BRISBANE COURIER’
FIRST
in Queensland in
Circulation - Advertising - and Influence
The “Brisbane Courier” carries considerably more advertising
than any other daily or evening newspaper in Queensland —
and is greatly increasing its lead every month!
Such is the confidence National, Interstate and Local Advertisers
have in Queensland's biggest and most progressive daily newspaper.
Specimen espies and rate cards from ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney
Published by the Brisbane Newspaper Coy., “Courier” Building, Queen St., Brisbane
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town and
Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and each
issue is eagerly read by men, women and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on
:
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYDNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 228
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: ‘Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
For Any Advertising Campaign in
Queensland Let Your First Choice Be
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
and its companion journal, “The Sunday Mail,”
Queensland’s big weekly newspaper and magazine.
“The Daily Mail” is the big morning paper with a
greater nett circulation than any other daily in the
State.
“The Sunday Mail” covers in one day the entire
metropolitan circulation of Brisbane’s four dailies.
For advertising rates and other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Clk Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements .
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all inter-State agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price lid.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD.
Head Offices:
King William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative:
WILSON, 228 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Telephone, MA3161.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANA(
who will quote you price for the oi
stmtdtijk!(M light!
with those who take
Worth a
Guinea
a Box.
O -<?
»o I C ». . '•
s'.' *«’V t.*£*~ *
's»r.-;
agfp^SsaSi
r
u
iM
Contains everything that women should
know—from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
TUESDAY —Price 3d
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
V 1
o*
“s
the Newspaper of Northern
Tasmania,
Is the only daily effectively covering the North
of Tasmania, where the majority ‘of the
population of Tasmania live. It is the northern
part of Tasmania that is prosperous and forging
ahead.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier" and
•‘Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from:
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd., Mr. V. W. Margetts, Mr. W. G. Dougan,
73-75 Patterson Street, 122 Flinders Street, 701 Herald Building,
, Launceston. Melbourne. 66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
*
y:
IN
0°
* 6V
l -a\&
<&#•
..•*
.•*Vv
cMSi


on a
L.
wmmg
yms
aim
Hill
Si
r<s^gf|
m
w
km^smsk
\m
\\M
m
m
m
\\WM\mmwwMmm\
mmmmmm
A Gi'oql
AuS'tt'alicnt
_
M ANY a good Australian has yet to realise the industrial importance of the
humble match. Based on it is a great Australian industry, in its
making, Australian capital to the tune of a million sterling is involved.
More than a thousand Australian work-people win from its production good
wages, good homes, and industrial content,' whilst it makes many further con-
tributions to the general prosperity of the country. It is the largest customer of
many other Australian manufactures.
Such an industry is worth preserving. You
can help to preserve it —easily without
cost, without trouble. All you have to do is
to insist on getting the Australian-made
match.
FOR
BRYANT & NAYS
AUSTRALIAN MATCHES
