

»
c
-M
r
' S&l
y
M
*. ■
V >
• > - ‘i
t- i
- ; ~la->
if-'f-il
»...*K
■ ; .''<•■
'3&i
tt*
: , • *
•v-vrn !$&
m m
\
-mg
■ y\sSslt
t-t:-,.
■w
Q
0 o
(o)4^
Born 1820-
Still going Strong
Lift the tag—remove
the capsule—and a
twist with finger and
thumb will give access
to the whisky with the
largest sale in the
world.
I'LL BET YOU <
A NEW HAT/ '
A misguided gentleman bet Johnnie
Walker a new hat that he could find a
man—perfectly sane—who had changed
from Johnnie Walker to another whisky
and not regretted it. He searched—and
failed. So Johnnie Walker acquired a
new hat.
But he couldn’t discard his old topper,
which had served him faithfully since
1820. To think of Johnnie Walker in any
other hat is absurd.
So, that all his faithful friends might
profit by the bet, he swapped the topper
for the new stopper which everyone
agrees is a "corking” good idea.
JOHNNIE WAfaKER
WHISKY
JOHN WALKER 8C SONS LTD., SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, LONDON and KILMARNOCK.
The Bulletin
Steele Rudd and Fane-Lofting Stories.
Vol. 50.—N0. 2585.
Wednesday, August 28, 1929.
jrrice 6d.
Registered at the General Post Offiee, Sydney, X.8.W.. Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


TTHE 1929 LIBRARY CATALOGUE is
* now ready, and will be forwarded post
free, with full terms and particulars, on
application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE. LTD.,
424-426 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The dark destroyer cleft the wave's
On Empire duty plying,
High overhead the Union Jack,
Red, white and blue, was flying.
The captain stood upon the bridge,
No sailor ever truer!
He feared no cough, for down bglow
Was Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
Iffl!
J 3
This Book FREE to YOU!
SEND THIS COUPON !
STOTT’S Technical Correspondence College,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please, send, without obligation, your New Free
16pp. Illnstraicd Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the-Sydney Bulletin,
My Name
My Address • • •.•.•••
S.B.
ULYSAGHT"
o
0
R
AUSTRALIA
Support Australian Industries.
All users of Galvanized iron should specify
Lysaght’s Australian-made
Galvanized Corrugated Iron.
Manufactured wholly from Australian Raw
Materials, and equal to the best imported.
HOLBROOKS
WORCESTERSHIRE
SAUCE
S 7
v>-.
HW 3
i
r .Vt
■
“One crowded hour
of glorious life is
worth an age with-
out a name.’’
II a 1 f-h ea 11 h .
misery- sparkling fitness is thrilling happiness. Know
the thrill yourself by taking' Cream of Yeast, the
modern way (o get rid of headaches, sickness, tired,
depressed feeling, bud' nerves and sleeplessness. Cream
of Yeast is the famous way to better health. All
chemists sell jt—24 Tablets 1/11, 48 for 3/C, or
125 for 5/9,
v/x
Amalgamated Laboratories, Kembla Building,
Sydney ; and all High-class Chemists.
Healing
by the Zam-Buk method always gives
the same splendid results. Use it on any
cut, sore, or eruption and note how rapidly
it clears and heals the skin. The great
potency of Zam-Buk comes from certain
refined herbal essences which soak deep
into underlying tissues. This
Soothing
balm removes the root cause of chronic
disfiguring disease. , It stops pain and
itching, draws pus and poison out of the
tissues, allays inflammation and grows
new skin. Zam-Buk leaves no impurities
in the skin as is the case with fatty pore*
clogging ointments. Being highly
Antiseptic
Zam-Buk is an ideal first-aid. If your
skin is irritated or sore, or you have a
cut, bruise, burn, scald, or sprain, a little
antiseptic Zam-Buk will promote rapid
healing. Rub Zam-Buk in to relieve
colds, chills, sore throat, neuralgia,
rheumatism, and other pains.
/'>« balm
met ns RiNcwonNCMAppio hands
ftAS HtS SORES INStcr DOES CnAMNdS-.
CfffEBtAINS • RMU/MAtISM • COI D SOPCV V
V smso* /
: V. AT W "
116
& 316
AH
dealers.
If any illustration in THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
AFRAID OF FOOD.
eSufferers from indigestion very often become faddists as regards their food, and
themselves in time reduced to a very meagre and unsatisfying diet. Hudson’s Eue«
thol Jujubes correct acidity of the" stomach, and. their antiseptit properties prr-
abnormal fermentation of the food, thus allowing the natural digestive ferments to
and if taken regularly after meals they so
improve the digestion that a strict diet be-
comes unnecessary. Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes a,re most useful to those who suffer
from Heartburn, Flatulence and Dyspepsia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE—Tins i/6.
Recommended by the Medical World, viz.
The Lancet, The Practitioner, etc.
17
52 i
i c .Hudson:
The Red Page
English and Other Minds
Mr. St. John Ervine, the dramatist, in a
recent article in the London Observer, set
out to explain why “Englishmen and Aus-
tralians dislike one another”: —
Th« Australian mind, to the Englishman, is untidy,
disorderly, over-emotional, undisciplined and scorn-
ful of authority. The English mind, to the Aus-
tralian, is too tamed and too submissive to authori-
ties in all branches of life.
This is surely itself an example of an
untidy mind at work.
Mr. Ervine means by the English mind
his own mind (though born in Belfast he is
an Englishman by adoption), and that is
essentially a middle-class mind. The
middle-class Englishman does not travel, as
a rule, and his social life is governed by
countless laws which to 99 foreigners out
of every 100 are incomprehensible. Andre
Maurois is the only Continental who, by
the magic of genius, has contrived to get
inside the brain of this type of Englishman.
He has just written an article warning
Frenchmen who visit England of the things
they must not do under pain of being dis-
liked. It contains exactly the same advice
as Mr. Ervine would give: “Be reserved;
don’t be genial” (i.e., “don’t be over-
emotional”) ; “dress correctly; don’t play
golf in riding breeches” (i.e., ’ “don’t be
scornful of authority”), and so on.
The middle-class Englishman certainly
objects to Australians, but then he also
objects to South Africans, Maorilanders,
Canadians, Americans and all others who,
while claiming social equality with him, do
not abide by his social rules.
The point of view can be seen in almost
any English novel or short story , which
deals with this class. Take The Clere
Family, by E. Fuller-Maitland and R.
Spence Belnard (Chapman and Hall). Mrs.
Clere lives in the country in a modest way.
She is what Mr. Ervine calls in the
Observer “well connected.” The plot is un-
folded in letters written by the characters
to one another. Stanislas, the naval man’s
younger brother, is in love with a widow,
who offers the Canon port “in a hard voice
with a pronounced Australian accent.” No
normal Clere could admire such a being,
so Stanislas is given a vulgar manner and
the wrong clothes. The Canon describes
him:—
My nephew was garbed to indicate an interest in
equine matters. A colored bird’s-eye stock (that,
I believe, is the correct term) encircled his neck.
He wore a waistcoat of canary-colored flannel with
white checks. A coat of a pronounced pattern in
check also.
• A clergyman of another race would not
catalogue such trivialities, but in middle-
class England they have a profound sig-
nificance.
The widow’s relation, Medcalf, is simi-
larly placed, so far as English readers are'
concerned when Rose, the heroine, writes
of him:—
I can picture him dressing up in a kilt, probably
of the ttoyal Stuart tartan, and speaking with
authority in railway carriages of deer forests. and
grouse moors.
Her sailor-lover is even more withering:—
It seems strange to find a creature of this kind,
breathing vulgarity, alcohol and forced geniality.
However—let us turn our attention to birds anil not
beasts.
What is their real objection to Medcalf;
socially speaking? Not that he breathes
alcohol (in England one who “gets drunk
like a gentleman” is preferred to a teeto-
taller) but his geniality, accent and clothes.
Why, asks the foreigner, in bewilderment,
should it be seemly to wear a bowler hat
with this suit and shameful with that?
Why should spats, which serve the useful
purpose of keeping the feet, warm, be the
hallmark of a bounder now, whereas no
objections were made to them a few years
ago? Why should yachtsmen be sneered
at for wearing yachting caps at Margate,
and not at Cowes? In “The Clere Family”
Lieut.-Commander Clere refers to Medcalf
as “a compound of cad and Cockney; a
not uncommon mixture.” Why should
Cockneys, the kindliest, cheeriest and best-
mannered townsfolk in the world, be com-
monly cads?
The truth is there is little or no logic
in any of the rules by which middle-class
England arrives at an estimate of the
status and character of a stranger. An in-
famy which the Medcalfs of fiction nearly
always’ perpetrate is to light their cigars
without removing the bands. The origin
of band-removing is in itself ridiculous.
King Edward VII., England’s first great
cigar-smoker, used to import specially-made
Havanas, which, naturally, had no bands.
Ever since, Englishmen, with what Mr.
Ervine would call orderly and disciplined
minds, have stripped the bands from, their
cigars, and regarded strangers who did not
as pariahs.
It would be absurd for Australians to
argue that there is no sense whatever in
these law’s. They are suited, no doubt, to
small, crowded and class-conscious com-
munities. But it is equally absurd for
Englishmen to sneer at Australians, Ameri-
cans and Continentals for taking no notice
of them, and that is what a good many
members of the English middle classes (and
some members of the other classes) often
do.
Mr. Ervine will strike most travelled
people as wrong also in his diagnosis of why
Australians dislike some Englishmen. There
is a type of Englishman who has been dis-
liked on the Continent and in America
for generations, and who gets England a
bad name in the Dominions. But the trouble
is not that he js “too tamed and too sub-
missive.” On the contrary. His offence
is superciliousness—“the English habit of
despising.” And he discriminates. The
Churchills, Cecils, Balfours and Baldwins
of England are friendly, even genial, to
the humblest, and their clothes violate
most of the directions of the Tailor and
Cutter. I have seen Viscount Cecil
shambling along Pall Mall in a frock coat
and soft felt hat. Walk past the Turf
Club any day in the London season and
you may see Lord Lonsdale going in or
out smoking a cigar with the band on, and
clad in garments as flamboyant as Stanis-
las Clere’s. Go to the Horse Show while
the costers’ donkeys are being judged, and
you may see him dancing w T ith the wife of
his friend the Pearly King. There are no
sneers from Suburbia; though, if the con-
ventions were so defied by colonials or
Americans, possessors of what Mr. Ervine
calls “the English mind” would be
infuriated.
Actually, of course, the true English
mind, which has been a bold, innovating,
democratic mind for over a thousand years,
is far more accurately represented by
human and unconventional people of this
kind than it is by the frigidly complacent
provincials whom so many modern writers
put forward as typifying England.
JOHN DALLEY.
“The Bulletin” Bench
The old bench downstairs in The Bulle-
tin office was, as Harold Mercer (*R.P.
3/7/’29) and W. H. East (R.P. 24 /7 ’29)
sa3*, a place of gossipry and meetings, of
laughter and, perhaps, of Bohemian dodges
to raise the wind. In its old darkness out-
side Tom McMahon's cubby it embodied
no doubt a number of flippant and tradi-
tional things. But it is more than all that,
too. Some of us are dead, some famous,
some old hacks, and some just workers
pegging along after the unattainable gleam;
but every one of us know.s, 1 think, as he
sees the old bench in its new light and air
of to-day, what it Still is, as well as what
it was:
“Answers to Correspondents” started it
with some cheery insult bracketed with a
half-hearted “Try it again,” and in the
lunch-hour I entered the twilight round
the old bench. “Try it again” was good-o—
nothing could be better—but how was one
to do it? “Go up anti ask David
Wright,” was the counter-man’s solution.
He came in from lunch while we were
talking, and he sat. beside me on the, old
bench and told me. But for wQeks Tom
McMahon’s friendly head was as that of a
porcelain mandarin with only .one move-
ment' (“Nothing down yet”); but later he
found the other movement and nodded,
pushing the first slip 'through the little
hatchway. This was money, a reverend
business enough, God knew. But it was
more than that. Sitting on the old
bench in the rich twilight 1 was more than
a man waiting for a cheque to be written
for liim, too. Much more.... I doubt
anyone’s ability .to tell how much more
I was. .
This highfalutin view of the old bench
was not a constant, of course. A good
many times one was only a man waiting fot
a cheque or a mate, and the bench was a
convenient roosting-placp until either or both
forthcame. One kicked about there, per-
haps, with only the sketchiest justification
for one’s presence often enough; the half-
dark was: lit by pulsating Norman Lindsay
line-work on the partition panels, mocked
by Alf Vincent and laughed at by Phil
May. Someone had scratched a profile of
Henry Lawson on the casing of the stairs;
some other one had tried his hand at a
David Low Billy Hughes beneath it—
perhaps even Low himself had done it.
In the warm silence these “sun-treaders”
took one into their company, making
golden justification enough for loafing there.
Or on the bench Rod Quinn smiled at
Hugh McCrae, who cracked with “Japan-
ese lgughter” at Rod’s gentle ’ humors. Or
Fred Broomfield boomed the literature of
the world at Percy Lindsay, who, in his
(Red Page continued on page 5.)


Anthony Horderns'— where “Truth iri Advertising'' ensures absolute accuracy of every description and illustration.
'
ill
as*
-
a i
■* A,
■a:
x > ?;
li
3ft
A"
gK
Si
is
a
wm
a-
lIS
Hi
■
43
>v
A.
'•V:
V
■
Know the Joys of
A Glorious Camping Holiday!
At Anthony Hordern.’ you will find everything to gladden the heart
Enthusiast, and, better .till, every art.cle carries our Guarantee o( cwnplete h
faction in addition to being offered at "Famous Low Prtces. The *■*» *«”»
illustrated is very roomy, with a calico division which provides two distinct roo - .
A tlnt of this nature is indispensable for the motorist camper, while the value
offered here is undoubtedly the finest in Australia.
Marquee Auto=Tent, £l2/15/-
The front of this Auto-Tent ran bo used as a Verandah in
weather, and the Roof is of Waterproof Birkmyre. Complete wit i
ropes attached, Bft. centre pole, 1 I 6ft. telescopic poles, 24 small and
Come in any time and inspect our wide
assortment of Tents, Camp Beds, Stools,
Rugs, “ Billies,” etc.
Tarpaulins.
Strong American
6x9
I Ooz.
EX,
EX,
EX,
EX,
GX.
GX.
HX,
1 Ooz.
I 2oz.
1 2oz.
I soz.
1 soz.
1 Boz.
12/6
15 x 20
70/-
6xB
14/6
I 5 x 20
82/6
6xB
18/-
15 x 20
103/-
6xB
19/9
15 x 20.
EIX, 1 Boz.
Waterproof Sleeping Bag.
Made from O.M. Khaki Waterproof Birkmyrc Dock.
All-wool Grey Blanket; pocket at top for pillow,
as-a stretcher and far less trouble in every way.
Size, 3ft. x 7ft. Price, each
16x18
66/6
24 x 26
144/-
16x18
78/6
24 x 26
171/-
16x18
98/6
24 x 26
214/-
16x18
110/6
24 x 26
240/-
Lined with heavy
As comfortable
55/-
Calico Car Covers
For Sun, Dust and Weather.
12x15 12x18
TX 19/6 23/6
AX 25/6 29/6
DX . . , . 35/6 42/6
Boz. Duck 31/- 35/-
I Ooz. Twisted Duck '4l/* 49/-
Dcpt.—First Floor. Wc pay Carriage
sdf
Postal Address
Box 2712 c, G.P.O.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS, LIMITED, SYDNEY
Telephone M 12401
Day and Night


r.
N
7
CHRYSLER MOTORS PRODUCT
Its ONLY small-air
FEATURE
is its Low-Price
Plymouth 4-Door Sedan.
FULL / SIZE
Today a small price need no
longer restrict you to a car of
indifferent quality; 'nor need it
limit you to a miniature motor car.
Chrysler Motors has introduced into
the low-priced field the beautiful
full-sized Plymouth. It is a quality
motor car in every respect —in style,
in comfort and in performance.
With its slender-profile radiator,
44 air-wing” fenders and graceful body
outline, Plymouth radiates an ad-
vanced style and distinction never be-
fore known in the low-priced field.
PLYMOUTH
Plymouth’s smooth performance is
another feature never before charac-
teristic of such low-priced cars
thanks to the modern high-compres-
sion engine with its extra-large crank-
shaft bearings, tull-pressure lubrica-
tion, rubber engine mountings and
body impulse neutraliser.
Plymouth is self-evidently a product
of Chrysler designing, Chrysler engi-
neering and Chrysler craftsmanship.
AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND DISTRIBUTORS:
New South Wales .. . Larke, Neave & Carter, Ltd., Sydney
Victoria Collins Motors Pty., Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Ward Motors, Limited, Brisbane
Wesi Australia Wm. Attwood Motors, Ltd., Perth
South Australia .... O. T. Rodda Motors, Ltd., Adelaide
Tasmania Metro Motors Pty., Ltd., Hobart
NetC Zealand Todd Motor Company, Wellington
New Guinea W. R. Carpenter & Co., Ltd., Rabaul


For Any Travel
CONSULT
THOS. COOK AND SON
In co-operation with
WAGONS-UTS CO.
sdf
PASSAGES
By all lines, all routes, all classes,
at bedrock fares. No booking lees.
TO EUROPE 1930
As berthing plans for all steamers
are open, BOOK. NOW to ensure
comfort on the voyage.
ESCORTED EUROPEAN TOURS
We offer choice of a dozen different
tours leaving Australia in February,
March and April, at fares to suit all
purses. Apply for special pro-
gramme.
WINTER TOURS
To Queensland, Java, Siam, Japan,
Hawaii, California, Indo-China,
Ceylon, etc.
TRAVELLERS’ CHEQUES
A boon to travellers, safe, conveni-
ent, good everywhere. Apply for
particulars.
SAILING LISTS
Programmes and all information
post free from
THOS. COOK AND SON
MELBOURNE: 269 Collins Street.
SYDNEY: Martin Place.
ADELAIDE: 49 Grenfell Street.
BRISBANE: Adelaide Street.
PERTH: Forrest Place, opp. G.P.O.
AUCKLAND: Queen Street.
WELLINGTON: Corner Hunter and
Featherston Streets.
turn, laughed at him. Mick Paul, complete
with beard and Apache hat, had a word
with Harold Mercer without hat. Percival
and Townshend paused for a moment on
their way upstairs, Coulter on their
heels Too many to name, they all
paused by the old bench, the figures of
to-day, as did those of yesterday.
It is good to know the old bench is
still in the office, in both the wood and the
spirit, for to-morrow and to-morrow.
HILARY LOFTING.
An “Australian” Anthem
The call for an Australian National
Anthem (R.P. 14/8/’29) is fairly ancient.
It was raised as far back as 1848, and
answered by a production which, according
to the London Athenaeum of the time,
was “received with rapture in Sydney.”
The words were said to have been by
“John Rae, Esq.. Town Clerk of Sydney;
the music by S. H. Marsh, Esq.” Here is a
slab of it :
Hail to thee, happy Queen, sweetest that earth has
seen,
Dear to thy country us chief to his elan.
Australia speaks loud of thee, Britain is proud of
thee,
Wise as Elizabeth, gentle as Anne.
Hail to thee, happy Queen. Be as thou still hast been,
Gilding with glory thy reign upon earth.
Live in Australia’s love, live like the peaceful dove,
There us in England, the land of tiiy birth.
Time has justified the prediction of the
Athenaeum that “this kangaroo and casso-
wary hymn will not put out of court our
genial, generous and glorious ‘God Save
the Queen.’ ”
T. F. M.
A. G. Stephens writes: Touching A. G.
Millctt’s reference to my donation to the
Zoo of “Australian Anthems” (R.P.
14/8/’29), may I be allowed to say it is
preferred that the waves should “chant”
(rather than “shout”) their freedom to the
soul; and that I like “million-shining,
nights” better than the variant of “million
shining lights.” That, indeed, suggests the
electrical illumination of our cities; but
the rhyme of “lights” with “delights” in
the preceding line is too rich for an Aus-
tralian poetical writer to contemplate regu-
larly.
And the task that Miss Bedford so en-
thusiastically attacked, in the “remarkable
circumstances” mentioned by Mr. Millett,
was not to “set the words to music,” but to
note and harmonise for piano accompani-
ment a given melody of which Ernest Tru-
man’s previous harmony was not available
in Melbourne. I had made fruitlessly other
Melbourne calls for trumps; and I have
always remembered gratefully how Miss
Bedford offered no hesitations or excuses,
but pianoed three aces at once, and sang
the ace of hearts the same evening.
I fear that this “Anthem” must be re-
garded as early musical work, awaiting an
occasion for amendment. It was published
in Sydney about 15 years ago, with Mick
Paul’s valiant drawing of “Mrs. Chidley,”
as an Australian banner-bearer, to announce
it; and, later, Mr. Edward Atkins’s piano
march (with even a full band score) was
published and played with some success and
a vast amount of pleasure to the author of
words and tune. Some of the tune—for
Sousa very courteously showed me how I
had begun with a haunting and unrecognised
memory of “Champagne Charlie.”
The rest is silence.
Our Slovenly Speech
Anna T. Brennan’s insistence (R.P.
31/7/’29) that it is not the Australian accent
that should be berated, but our slovenly
speech, wins my applause. I lay the blame
on those who devised our State education
systems and curricula. At 11 and 12 our
children are pitchforked into secondary
schools, where oral reading and recitation,
both excellent methods of speech training,
are swamped out of the curriculum by
other subjects that must be taught in
order to satisfy the examiners for the inter-
mediate and leaving certificates. The
results are not edifying. I have been
appalled by the crudities of language and
the slovenly speech of junior teachers, the
possessors of leaving certificates of the
Melbourne University. “You was,” “I seen,”
“He done,” “Yair (yes),” “Tha’s right,”
“S’all right” are common expressions.
The idea of the educationists on whose
authority such curricula are based is that it
is better for a child to learn to read by the
eye (as he will necessarily do most of his
life), and get the sense of what he is read-
ing. than to merely read for the sake of
oral expression. But if the two go hand in
hand, as they do in the primary schools,
there seems to be no adequate reason for
almost discarding one altogether in the
secondary schools. Also, it seems to be for-
gotten (in the higher forms of the schools,
at . least) that the study of poetry is more
than memorising poems in order to write
them out again, correctly punctuated,
for an examiner’s delectation. To be
adequately appreciated poetry must be
expressed orally; and this oral expression
cannot be neglected without detriment to
the student’s speech. French is not neglected
in this fashion; the French school in
the Faculty of Arts sees to that. French
teachers spend hours a week teaching the
phonetic? applicable to the French tongue,
and examinations in French are oral as well
as written.
The influence of the home and the street,
of films with sub-titles in murderous English
and the talkies, is so strong that, unless
counteracted with enthusiasm and deter-
mination right throughout school Life, there
is grave danger of our native speech
becoming a spurious tongue, not even
decently Australian, let alone good English.
The leaders of education should introduce
into the secondary-school curricula adequate
forms of speech training, even if it is neces-
-sary to abolish some so-called literature
study, or some of the French lessons.
VOUNTRY PED.
The Coral Garden
When our ancestors of the last genera-
tion, or the one before that, decided to come
to Australia, hardly any of t-hem showed
much curiosity about the place they were
choosing for a home. This shows clearly
enough in many old letters and diaries:
they expected Australia to yield them an
income and health, but they made little
attempt beforehand to guess what it would
look like. Now and then you come across
the expression “South Sea Islands. They
had heard of “those islands,” of coral
islands: so Australia might be a colossal
coral island with a fringe oi cocoanut palms
all round it! Then they came, and perhaps
grew wheat near Bathurst, or took billets as:
clerks in marvellous Melbourne, or planted
apple orchards in Tasmania. Coral islands.' 1
Paul Wenz has just published a slight
but vivid book restoring the “coral-island”
atmosphere to Australia. Le Jardin des
( 1 ora ax (Calmann-Leog) passes from Sydney
Harbor to an island on the Great Barrier
Reef and back again. It is a story of youth
as seen in its simplest and most idyllic ,
manifestations: a mature man’s over-impli-
cation of youth, perhaps. A young man and
his young wife are on an island with a coral
garden; to tins Eden a serpent enters; that
is all. “The world is too much with us”:
Eden is ruined by what is outside.
The book sparkles with that sunlight
always ascribed to Australia, whatever else
was missing from the picture. One sees
this book being picked up, in its rosc-
colored covers, on a bookstall in Paris, and
startling some reader on a grey, misty day
of northern Europe. It is startling enough
to a reader in a Melbourne winter. Robust
but not profound, forcible and unpreten-
tious, “The Coral Garden” is a slanting
glimpse of an Australian life that no other
writer could give us.
NETTLE PALMER.
A Satchel of Books
Old Maris Heard., by H. K. Wakefield
(Tiles). Another collection of good spooky
stories by the author of one of the neatest-
titled of all books of ghost stories-—“ They
Return at Evening,” which is a shiver in
itself. The writer is like that —his ghosts
ring true.
The House of Memories, by Barbara
Wilson (Heifiemann). In a series of racy
sketches. Lady Wilson recalls a childhood
and girlhood spent chiefly in Paris, and
from that interesting angle paints a new
picture of the bright city and the French.
Ghond the Hunter, by Dhan Copal
Mukerji (Dent). Semi-archaic English adds
to the convincingness of these fine boys"
tales of the Indian boy-hunter Ghond. who,
adventuring among living jungle things, like
cobras, monkeys and tigers, has enthralling
experiences. The talcs have brisk action and
present a faithful picture of jungle life.
Bats in the Belfry, by C. L. Hales (Cecil
Palmer). It is said here of an illiterate
tramp that “he had been at Eton and Harrow
and Oxford and Cambridge.” The book,
which deals with the adventures of a couple
of hoboes (brightly named Osbert and Edric),
is full of such ghastly merriment. It is
English waggislmess at its heavy-handed
worst..
Great Stories of Real Life (Newnes;
Roycroft Library. Sydney). Another port-
manteau. Great life mysteries, love-stories,
trials, impostures, robberies, jewel romances
and what not, told by such, experts in pur-
veying excitement as Max Pemberton, Edgar
Wallace, William le Queux, Edgar .Tepson
and sundry others. The hook holds 5T
pretty well-authenticated yarns, told in 1008
pages. Some of the contributors have
written fiction not half as romantic.
Fire, by Armine von Ternpski (Murray),
is about a lovely American flapper, who,
while on a visit to Hawaii, marries a panioli.
or half-breed cattle-puncher. The attraction
of Liholiho—apart from his dusky good looks
and the fact that he stands for the romance
of Hawaii in Alma’s heated imagination—
appears to be his horsemanship. He does
heroic things on horses all through the book.
The characters are fantastically unreal. In
life 17-year-old Alma —that figment of an
emotional school-gill’s dream—would have
been spanked and taken back to Washington
at an early stage of her infatuation.
“Zorro”: Maorilanders will have to pay
for “All Quiet on the Western Front'’ if
they wish to make acquaintance with this
epical war story. Of the principal libraries
'.Christchurch is the only one not to bar
the book from its shelves on the ground that
“it is coarse and utterly unlit for general
circulation,” as Librarian Norrie, of Wel-
lington, phrased it. Auckland, however, went
one better and shut out the book because
of its lack of literary merit, incidentally
classing it with the Tarzan stories, which
are on the Auckland index on the ground
that they are trash. Some sore subscribers
are now beginning to ask what business the
librarians have to ban a book which has
passed the General Censorship Committee
appointed by the Customs Department
and towards which the police are favorable.
The amusing side of the thing is that the
London Times, which Auckland Librarian
Barr invoked when justifying himseLf, has
given the book a glowing review and
called it a work of genius.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Navie and address must appear on the MS. A’o liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be return ed unless stamps accompany.
D.H.: Your yarn about the victimised
jeweller has been told in print a dozen times....
0.K.: No space for lengthy articles about the origin
of earthquakes J. 8.8.: Tepid little incident,
though well enough told E.V.: “Fuel” is
S.L.H.: Knocked out.. . .R.W.K.: Good ideas in
the lighter stuff, but you water them too much....
1'.0.R.: Must fit in .the extra “0”... .11. F.: No
space tor "Mona” Fair: Only 0.0.: Missed
by a tty’s eyelash... .Sandy: Not there yet. .. .Argus
Og: No good, Argus So: It still misses 0.K.5.:
Very little in that Hilaria: “White Ship” has
been given its cleaiage E.D.V.0..: No gold in
“Bulooloo”... .D.W.: What Che “W ind Whispers” is
not very r striking.... McM.: Something in it, though
you do your best to smother it J.G.8.: Next,
please. .. .R.G.S.: “A Hush Ramble” has a fair
enough title R.L.: Not enough in it Don Q.:
In the 03 class.., .J.E.P.8.: Liked best this from
“The Immigrant”:—
1 am far away from home, dear Mother,
Hut for you 1 always pray,
Till 1 go back to Old England
Upon the Fifth of May.
Coutre: Will have to take the “C” off to
describe that 10t....1\1.: Very good for 17 —weeks.
....G-S.: Don't care,for it, though it’s not so weak
1J1.0.; Most cheerful “Lament” for months....
R.A.T.: “The Birth and Death of the Universe
Visualised in a .Sunset” has set. No dawn....
M.L.8.: “The Pepper Tree” bit the dust....Pog:
Effort to rhyme “end” and “hand” the most up-
lifting thing in it....'C1.: Reminder that spring is
at hand brings the office axe-handle out of hiding.
.'...Singer Tremble: “The Goanna and the* Jam-tin”
reluctantly cremated... .1.M.A.: Glad to meet bul-
locky who “used no coarse-grained words.” Dumb,
we presume.., i K.M.M.: Saw , the first round out,
but was downed in the second. .. .A.S.: Far too
fragile. .. .Charles ' Harold: Not quite in Childe’s
class... .E.L.: “A Toast” burnt..... Ordinary: “T.
the R.” graciously accepts apologies... .M.G.: “The
Dover” easily repulsed... .E.VV.P.: Couldn’t find
much in them. .. . R.H.W.: Good point, but no poem.
....Toy Wheel: Turned back.... V.S.: The “Grey
Thrush” fails to soar, or score.. . .0.H.E.: “Un-
requited Love.” Also verse. .. .B.B.: Np... .E.A.S.:
Anyway, the “Rhyme to a Modern Maid” is in the
fashion. It’s thin. . . .E.A.L.: ’ Have read “The
Storm.” All is now riot on the testing front.....
K. 11.: Congratulations on owning'a dog that miracu-
lously
Has two (sirs.
Yes, two dark little ears,
And two little eyes, round in front.
. ...R.N.H.: “The tintinuabula of tiny things.” We
know. We’ve heard them. But, thank Heaven,
they’re going to school n0w.... Solong: Federal
politics seem right in your line:—
Now Bruce is set on Eyetalians dark,
But Billy- Hughes proves to be a nark;
He storms and raves at him so bitterly
That people, will not mix with Italy.
He lifts his mighty voice on high,
it is rife to lift the sky.
He rants and raves at Bruce and co.,
Oh, what a mighty man is Billy-o!
....Has: Can’t make it “Das Capital”... .T.11.R.:
Ballad of “the gold-rush days before the railway” is
now behind “enclosed stamp”... .J.W.: “Pale is
the evening sky.” That “is” ought to be an “as.”
. ...H.J.H.: Outed.... N. V.: Four strong men have
carried it to the post office.... J.: Just don’t im-
press... .Laurel: Nothing for our taste there....
J.A.S.: Yo, ho, and a stanza of “Rum”: —■
Rum played a mighty, part when Phillip’s fleet was
sent
With a nation’s seed to the Island Continent.
The blood of clergymen and currency lasses
Was warmed and stirred by tile spirit of molasses,
it meant to, those young ladies many a good spree,
And to some of them the odor of sanctity.
Oh, often in the days and nights that are to come,
Those who arc staunch and true will be aided by
Rum.
... .A.V.D.: “The Eighth of August” has now passed.
E.H.T.: Too slight. .. .Bolivar: “Vale.” Vale!
... .S.G.A.: It has to "o back....N.F.: “External-
mortal," “option—attraction,” “list-—exit,” “question
—conception,” “miscarried —unaided.” And then you
spoil it all by rhyming “kind” with “blind”....
Aitchsee: Don’t fancy the “Barber”... .E.A.0.: Has
some merit, but absence of rhyme makes it drag.
T.E.B.: Basket food H.D.: All go back
8.5.8.: Not in our line. .. . A.A.: The “wild surmise”
too reminiscent. .. .Scotty McSenex: Prayer to Fashion
to keep skirts shrinking far too unsophisticated,
as to call for apologies... .K.8.N.: The sort of
linen they wash in the Divorce Court D.M.l’.:
Picturesque and idyllic, but central interest weak.
. ...E.I'.M.: More froth than beer in it, and a
small glass at that. .. . Linwood: Your “solution” of
the problem does not solve it....C.P.: Neither very
original nor very interesting... . M.M.: In short, lie
ealled his wife “Mew,” and they led a cat-and-dog
life M.J.: Try an aircraft magazine G.W.:
Might do for a movie scenario. .. .W.C.G.: “The
Frenchman still pursued her.” Left pursuing....
W.T.C.: Well, what happened? G.l’.F.: Heroine
who “deliberately poked her tongue out at him”
slapped and sent home. . . .M.M.: Blast your “Dyna-
mite”! Garmut: Subject-matter of story has been
dealt with more skilfully ; paper on native customs
more suitable for a medical journal... .V. 8.: Posi-
tively refuse to introduce the lady who had taken
“u correspondence course in marriage”... .11.W.K.:
Very long and very dull R.P.: Your truth is
better than much fiction, but it’s too bald.
TO A KIT STIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
0.F.C.: One may have value as a suggestion. But
you can’t draw interiors... .A.M.P.: We’ve seen the
little vandal before G.C.: Did you throw Bathurst
burrs dipped in ink at the paper ?.... H.A.: The
cross-eyed chap won’t swing the Douglas across our
pages. .. ,S.R.: Tars keelhauled... AV.R.G.: Tossed
’em out with relish... .8.J.: Can’t see you doing
any better without lessons.. ~P.F.8.: You won’t
make competition in the freelance field any keener.
P.M.D.: One glance was enough J.W.M.: An
atrocity.... OX.: If there’s any improvement it’s
invisible to the naked eye.... W.R.D.: Drunk missed
here also. .. .8.M.: Tame and scratchy D.J.H.:
It’ll be a long time before a cheque flutters your
way.. . .H.M.0.: You can’t make human beings out
of eggs and dog-chains. .. .B.B.: Both ancient.


N XX
IN. VSJ
X V 5
"N
SN
s
CNN
>S
X
\x


The Bulletin
Vol. 50.—N0. 3585.
August 28,1029.
THE POLITICAL BASHER GANG.
"Since the State Parliament assembled on July 3, there have been seven motions for adjournment on matters of small importance, and over 100 questions, many
of them frivolous, have been asked—one cost £100 to answer. The rest of the time has been wasted on the address-in-reply.”— Vic. Chief-Sec. Argyle.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE:
21 i George Street, Sydney; Box 252188.
Victoria : IH-20 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 2 1/9 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : James Place, Adelaide.
Westrama: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
London : 36 Southampton Street, Strand, W.C.2.
Regent 5195.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to ant address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 J t s.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
5 months, Is.
To any address Overseas: 12 months, £1 10s.;
6 months, 15s. (id.; S months, Bs.
Postage Rates.
Single copies. — Commonwealth, New Zealand and
Fiji: Wot., id. United Kingdomjoz. to 10oz., l\d.;
each additional 'ioz., Id. All Sea Route: Kioz., lid.
British Possessions and U.S.A.: \oz. or part thereof,
Id. Elsewhere, 20z., Id.
PRINCIPAL CONTENTS OF THIS ISSUE.
RED PACE LITERARY ARTICLES .. 2, 5
ENGLISH AND OTHER MINDS .. ..2
AN AUSTRALIAN ANTHEM 6
THE CORAL CARDEN 5
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS . . . . 6
THE FRONT-PAGE CARTOON, BY LEASON .. 7
EDITORIALS 8, 9
GHOSTS AWAITING BAVIN 8
WATCH-DOGS BARRED 8
NO TIME FOR BROMIDES 8
ANOTHER SLAPDASH BUDGET . . . . 8
WHY ANGLICANS IMPORT ARCHBISHOPS 8
CARS AND THE TARIFF 9
WHERE TOWN-PLANNING FAILS . . . . 9
‘A CARTOON BY PERCIVAL 9
POLITICAL POINTS 10
POVERTY POINT 11
CARTOON BY SCORFIELD 11
PERSONAL (with caricatures) .. .. . . 13
SOCIETY (with drawings) . . . . .. 14-, 15
SUNDRY SHOWS (Theatres, etc.) .. ..16
“WILD CAT” COLUMNS 18, 20
ELDER, SMITH 18
NEW ZEALAND INSURANCE CO 18
SILVERTON TRAMWAY 18
WERE’S INVESTMENT TRUST .. ..18
JOHN HICKS & CO. .'. 20
ABOIIIGINALITIES (with drawings) .. 23, 25
Free Service Department .. 26
MAN ON THE LAND . . . 28, 31
WATCH THE SUCCESSFUL MAN ! .. . . 28
SOYA BEANS 28
DUCKS ARE PROFITABLE 31
SMOKE-OH . . 32
PEN AND PICTURE 35
ART SHOWS 35
THE INKY WAY 35
BUSINESS, ROBBERY 36
SPORTING (illustrated) 39, 41, 42
ROSEHILL RACES 39
WILLIAMSTOWN RACES 39
SYDNEY WOMAN’S LETTER 45
CHATTER FROM MELBOURNE 48
OTHER CAPITALS’ GOSSIP 50
“Paradise Plumes” 47, 51, 52
COMPLETE SHORT STORIES—
“RUFUS ESCAPES,” by Margaret Fane and
Hilary Lofting . . .. .. 55, 57
“POLO—AND HIPPY,” by Steele Rudd 57, 58
VERSE. —By Charles Campbell, Llywelyn
Lucas, Roderic Quinn, C. H. Souter,
E. «f. Brady .. .. .. 52, 55, 58
Next Week.
“UNTOLD TALES OF BULLY HAYES,” by Albert
Dorrington.
“THE AMBITION OF THOMAS TEMPLETON,”
by K. L, Trent.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 28, 1929.
GHOSTS AWAITING BAVIN.
The N. S. Wales Parliament will have
enough to think about and a trifle over
when it meets after a long stoppage, with
the returned and recuperated Bavin again
in charge of affairs. Last financial year
closed with a deficit of £600,000, which was
turned into a surplus of the same amount
by leaving some £1,200,000 of the railway
shortage in suspense, or hung up. It is
known that a letter was sent to the Railway
Commissioners asking what they meant by
being short, but little is known about the
reply. Possibly the Commissioners answered
that their deficit of £2,000,000 was the
natural successor of their deficit of £1,609,267
the year before, and was principally due
to working expenses and interest being
out of control. There were 1387 fewer men
on the pay-roll in 1927-28 than the previous
year, yet working costs grew by nearly a
million.
In the latter part of the financial year a
shortage of £1,000,000 or so was detected
in ■ the Child Endowment Fund, and by
the end of the year it was naturally larger.
The Government had gained many friends
by suspending the Child Endowment tax,
which falls solely on employers, solvent or
insolvent just the same. When it transpired
that this relief had been brought about by
piling up one more shortage, and that the
tax had to go on again, not only to meet
current liabilities but also to cover arrears,
some of the friends began to fall away. The
demand for Child Endowment seems cap-
able of indefinite enlargement, through
strikers putting themselves nominally into
a state of sufficient poverty to qualify and
indirect victims of strikes arriving there
naturally. The poverty may sometimes be
doubtful, but the demand for money isn’t.
With a prospect of Child Endowment
rising to £2,000,000 per annum, it is admitted
that the money can’t be screwed solely out
of employers. Every time wages are raised,
that means not only more wages to pay but
a bigger endowment impost to pay. So the
idea is advanced of spreading the bill over
other classes, including those “in receipt of
large incomes from investments and other-
wise.” This is taken to mean that the
endowment will be charged openly to the
public funds, instead of surreptitiously to
the employers’ private funds. The demand
on the funds is apparently to be made good
by more income-tax, though the Govern-
ment promised a reduction, and though
Bruce-Page is imposing a super-tax of 10 p.c.
on incomes of £2OOl and upwards. It is
alleged with regret that the principle of
Child Endowment can’t be interfered with
though the heavens fall and Hell breaks
loose, because the present Premier, when
bidding hard for votes at last election,
promised to shoulder this burden, as well as
other burdens bequeathed by Lang, in full.
Office may be bought at an excessive price—
to other people.
Over and above everything else stands
the tradition that the State must borrow
about £10,000,000 a year at 5-j per cent,
and invest it in undertakings which return
an average of about \\ per cent. The
undertakings might return per cent, or a
little more save for the cost of work done
by day labor, which works at a slow pace
for 44 hours and wants fewer hours. The
really insane loan-spending habit was in-
herited from McGowen, Holman, Storey,
Dooley and Lang, and the present Ministry
tries to be a little worse than any of them,
though the condition of the loan market
makes this difficult. Short hours, day labor,
the high rural wage and crushing taxation
come from the same sources, and the Gov-
ernment has so far shown a pallid terror of
taking strenuous measures, or any sort of
measures, with any of them. Reform seems
to be what frightens it most.
So the repaired Premier returns to find
serious matters awaiting him, though when
he nominally cleared up the situation by
putting between £3,000,000 and £4,000,000
of accumulated embarrassments into the
permanent public debt he anticipated a term
of repose. His most conspicuous respon-
sibilities are: (1) to find £1,200,000 annually
to make the railway system solvent; (2) to
find anything up to £2,000,000 a year for
Child Endowment; (3) to discover how to
raise another £250,000 or so each year (a
quarter-million the first year, a half-million
the second year, three-quarters the third,
and so on) to meet the trouble which arises
through borrowing ten millions at 5| per
cent, and investing it at very much less;
and (4) to borrow money at any price with
which to honor the promises which his
happy-go-lucky deputies have spilled around
in his absence. The N.S.W. exactions in the
way of direct taxation were £4,083,990 in
1918-19, when the war finished, and
£12,043,990 in 1928-29, the second year of
Bavin-Stevens administration. The increase
of about £8,000,000 is a record for the State,
or for any State. And more direct tax
would do no permanent good while short
hours, day labor, incessant strikes (in an
ordinary year N.S.W. is responsible for
three-fourths of the Commonwealth’s strike
losses), and the habit of investing 5 \ per
cent, loan money in 1£ per cent, under-
takings remain.
The position may be patched for a while
by adding a little to taxes, economising a
little on such things as education which
are least likely to arouse Red fury, adding
some more shortage to the permanent public
debt, and hanging something up; but these
are only expedients, and poor ones at the
best.
WATCH-DOGS BARRED.
The disciplinary action taken by Prime
Minister Bruce against Messrs. Hughes
and Mann (W.A.) will arouse no sympathy
for the disciplined. Everybody understands
their game.
There are no Viscount Cecils in Fed-
eral politics—altruists, who want nothing
from a Parliamentary career but the oppor-
tunity to serve their country according
to their lights. The tragedy is that if
such a phenomenon did appear—one who
criticised his party with no ulterior motive
in the way of blackmailing his way into a
Ministry, or smashing it on the chance of
snatching a Prime Ministership from the
ruins—he would be similarly treated. The
next election would find him denied
membership of the “Bob-in Club,” and
without a Nationalist nomination. In accord-
ance with Gresham’s law, that bad money
drives out good—one' which applies in
politics as much as in currency—his place
in Parliament would be filled by a dummy
or a crook.
The official arrogance which found ex-
pression in the Prime' Minister’s ban im-
posed on his critical followers without any
sort of Cabinet consultation is one of the
factors which threaten to ruin Federal
Nationalism. It represents a dictatorship
that is even more objectionable to a demo-
cratic community than the “caucus domina-
tion” which anti-Labor used to deplore
before it adopted the caucus system itself.
Other Nationalists, with warnings to issue
but no wish to lose the number of their mess,
will bottle up their observations; and a
Government which at present is as much
out of touch with the sentiments of its rank
and file as a weak staff in war-time will be
the loser. This stupid aloofness is to blame
for some of Bruceism’s worst tactical errors.
A Prime Minister with knowledge of
what those outside his little circle were
saying would never have begun the Brown
prosecution, or having begun it would never
have withdrawn it. He would not have
sneered publicly at the alleged ignorance
and incompetence of Australian business
men, who, on the whole, know their jobs as
well as most. Mr. Bruce chose to sneer at
wage-payers and to give them patronising
advice at a time when, largely owing to
incompetent incursions by his Government
into enterprises in which an anti-Socialist
Administration should be the last to inter-
fere, taxation, the national debt and the
cost of the public service have greatly
increased.
Last year the Bruce Administration raised
£61,000,000 in taxation, and had a deficit
of £2,358,975. This year extra taxation,
most of it highly unpopular, is to be imposed
to raise over £64,000,000 and wipe out an
accumulated deficit of close on £5,000,000.
Meanwhile there have been wholesale dis-
missals of soldiers, sailors and munition
workers; regiments have been disbanded
and warships placed out of commission;
expenditure on those vital Commonwealth
needs, land and sea defence, is to be cut
to the bone. And at this critical time, when
electors have been sickened by party hum-
bug, and want nothing so much as an
intelligent and active watch-dog, the Prime
Minister lets it be understood that any but"
the kind of useless animal which fawns on
the burglar can expect a charge of shot
from the Nationalist gun!
NO TIME FOB BROMIDES.
“I have come back convinced that the difficult
industrial and social problems which we have to
face will not be solved by the methods we have
adopted in the past—by mere party spirit and main-
tenance of party strife. I am satisfied that we must
extend co-operation among all • classes of the com-
munity.”—iV./S'. IK. Premier Bavin.
Mr. Bavin’s conversion is the outcome of
a brief stay in a chastened land. Many
party leaders in the U.K., and particularly
the Prime Minister, are expressing such
sentiments with unction now. The Com-
munists have only one representative in
the House of Commons; and the chief
aim of the Trades Union Congress,
which is to meet at Belfast next month, will
be “to co-operate in the task of stamping
out the disruptive activities of Communists
who are planning to conquer our movement
in order to impose on it an autocracy.”
British Labor has learnt its lesson.
N. S. Wales is in the position, socially
and industrially, which faced Britain at the
time of the general strike. Its most influ-
ential union leaders are taking their policies
from Russians who, in the words of a British
unionist at Manchester, “believe that the
movement should be used simply and solely
for political objects, and that those who dis-
agree are either liars, traitors, knaves or
fools.” They are preaching the 50-year-old
Syndicalist doctrines which have involved
every country that has had anything to
do with them in disaster—the termination
of “the capitalist system of social organi-
sation known as the State,” by means of
“demand upon demand and strike upon
strike.”
Prime Minister Baldwin tried to handle
this sort of situation with benign platitudes,
and, but for his habit of stepping aside in
favor of resolute colleagues whenever a
dangerous crisis arose, the Social Revolu-
tion might have materialised. As it was,
the coal strike and its subsidiaries dragged
on for years, and their effects will be felt
for generations. The verdict of the country
on this exhibition of amiability in politics
has just been given; the Baldwin party,
which was returned with a majority of over
200 seats in 1924, has been blown to pieces,
and according to the current Sunday
Express “the selection of Mr. Baldwin’s
successor has already begun.”
The Bavin Government has had full
reports of the progress of the mass-picketing
movement as the Baldwin Government had
of the general strike movement. According
to one, “the men are becoming more restive,
and where they first entertained enmity
against the volunteers only they are now
equally resentful against the police.” The
Timber Merchants’ Association considers
that “rioting and bloodshed are inevitable
unless immediate action is taken.” In face
of this and other evidence that the union
leaders are egging their dupes on to anarchy,
the Attorney-General announced last week
that “if it is found by the Cabinet that the
present law is not adequate'to deal with
the situation, amending legislation will be
brought down next session.”
Every lawyer knows that no special legis-
lation is required to check the kind of
picketing that has been going on in Sydney
for months. Unfortunately, owing to lack
of administrative courage, the picketers
have been allowed to join the ranks of
tolerated wrongdoers. By administrative
custom, Chinese fan-tan players are pro-
ceeded against, but not white poker players;
it is punishable cruelty to course a cat. but
not to course a hare; similarly, it is an offence
to insult anyone but a volunteer worker. So
long as the Government abides by this
rotten tradition, militant picketing will
get more and more militant. Soothing
remarks about “the necessity of extending
co-operation amongst all classes,” and hints
at the possibility that the law does not
forbid strikers to threaten and abuse volun-
teer Workers, are merely interpreted as
weakness by the disruptive element. The
only time for bromides is when the State
has asserted its authority.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Another Slapdash Budget.
Having got its finances into a mess, largely
by meddling in matters which it should
never have touched (the £2,000,000 per
annum for State roads is the worst
example), the Bruce-Page Government is
imposing a lot of new taxation as well as
“saving” on Defence. There is to be a 10
p.c. increase in the rate of tax on incomes
exceeding £2000; there* are to be higher
customs duties on alcoholic beverages, films,
motor chassis, silk and artificial silk goods,
tobacco, cigars and cigarettes; precious
stones, which have hitherto come in free,
are to be taxed 10 p.c.; another 3d. per
gallon is to be added to the excise duty on
beer; and 5 p.c. is to be taken from “the
total receipts from charges for admission
to entertainments.”
The new customs and excise duties are
estimated to yield £2,750,000. From the
amusement receipts tax £600,000 is expected,
and from the super-tax on incomes a bit
more. Federal and N.S.W. taxes on income
from personal exertion and property already
rise above 10s. in the £ (on personally-
earned income exceeding £7600 the Federal
rate is ss. in the £, with 8 p.c. added, and
the State rate ss. in the £); and the addi-
tion hastily decided upon, while it will
certainly provide the Treasurer with more
money to play with, will give wage-payers
"Smother incentive to reduce staffs.
The last Parliament added a whole farth-
ing per foot to the film duty of per
foot; it now goes up to 3d. There can be
no reasonable objection to this; the duty
should have been made protective years
ago. But the 5 p.c. on receipts looks
clumsy and unfair. It would be far more
sensible to reimpose the old tax on tickets
of admission, beginning at ninepence. Also,
instead of compelling working men to pay
more for their beer and tobacco, it would be
far more equitable to tax the army of
trippers that spends Australian money like
water in foreign countries, a large proportion
of whom are idle women. Even a tax of
5 p.c. on their steamer fares would bring in
a substantial amount, and the cost of col-
lection would be trifling.
“In the Defence services,” the Treasurer
says, “a 'saving’ of £119,200 was effected.”
The Defence “savings” for the present year
are reckoned at £544,600, and all three arms
are to suffer; the R.A.N. is now getting its
share. The author of these disastrous
economies acknowledges that he budgeted
for a surplus of £12,900 and achieved a
deficit of £2,359,000; but it leaves him un-
discouraged. In fact, he prides himself on
his “consistent record of wise and prudent
control of public expenditure!”
«
Why Anglicans Import Archbishops.
Dear Bulletin, —It is probable that in their
hearts there are very few Anglicans in
Victoria who do not agree with those who
advocate the appointment of an Australian
to the long-vacant archbishopric of Mel-
bourne. But the case is not so simple as it
seems. No organisation is under the sur-
face split by greater fissures than is the
Church of Eugland, not only in Australia
but in England itself, and never were the
fissures deeper than. now. The new arch-
bishop of Melbourne has not only to take
over this cracking fabric; he is expected to
prevent it from cracking worse and to do
some necessary repairs.
A man imported for the job would start
less handicapped than an Australian; he
would have nothing to forget and less to
unlearn. Melbourne churchmanship is
sternly divided into high and evangelical.
Synods have exciting times in camera, and
divisions are keenly fought. Some parishes
have adopted what is virtually Mass, hold
confessions and erect pietas and Calvaries
on public thoroughfares; others exchange
pulpits with Nonconformist divines. Some
rectors call themselves “Father,” or conduct
picture-shows in the church building; others
are more Wesleyan than the Methodists.
The incoming archbishop has to run his
diocese straitly between these antitheses,
offending none to the detriment of the
communion as a whole, yet exacting some
semblance of discipline. The native is
handicapped because he has perforce been
obliged in his canon and rector days to
identify himself with one or other of the
parties. Human nature being the same
within the ring of a reversed collar as in the
neglige of a working singlet, the native
elevated to archiepiscopal rank is bound to
be anathema to quite half his flock—not
exactly an omen for success. Two Aus-
tralians most mentioned for the Melbourne
throne, Drs. Long and Micklem, typify the
problem exactly. Both are positive in
character, both are leaders in their schools,
both are men who have been limelit by the
press for years. For every friend either
man has there must be counted a critic as
keen.
Differences have been intensified of late
years in the same way as in England.
There the trouble has crystallised fizzily in
the Prayer-book controversy; here it sim-
mers as the legal-nexus-with-Canterburv
controversy. In Victoria Dr. Lees held
the scales with skill; he personally wielded
a pick at a working-bee to erect the mo-"
Anglo-Catholic chapel in Melbourne, and he
invited non-episcopalian preachers to
officiate at St. Paul’s Cathedral; he was -
sportsman among men and a ladies’ man.
Melbourne has had rather a remarkabr
succession of bishops, later archbishops.
Perry, the pioneer, was a layer of founda-
tions and a builder of fabric; Goe was a
saint; Moorhouse was a stimulant ana


DUX OF THE SCHOOL.
“Praising the year’s work of the Pan-Pacific Trade-union Secretariat, with which important Australian trade-union organisations are associated, the MOSCOW PRIVDA
says: The Secretariat has achieved its finest results in Australia, having managed to divert the sharp edge of the Labor movement from the color question, and to
direct it against its own white class enemies.
THE MASTER: “Comrade Australia, you vin der prize for being der most class-conscious pupil of der year. Take it, and continue your splendid fight for der
destruction of Australian industry—put der boot in, you call it, eh?
publicity master; Clarke was a martinet
and financier. Then came Lees, the tactician
and strategist. The communion is now
looking for a man who will be all five: not
•an easy task. It is praying he may be
hiding, a village Hampden, in some Stoke
Pogis of the Old Land. It is fearful that
it knows too well the embarrassing virtues
of the men the Church has, bred or trained
in Australia.—Yours, etc., Confiteor.
All in Eleven Years.
Out of the 90 loan millions which the
States have spent in paying people to go
on the land, 82 millions have been spent in
the last 11 years. As it took a while to
demonstrate for certain that there was far
too much pomp and interest bill about the
business, and another while before official-
dom began to own up, it is natural that the
size of the losses should just begin to appear.
The very latest admission, by McPherson of
Victoria, is that his State’s investment of 36
millions or so yields £1 18s. 3d. per cent.,
which is much less than half what the
money costs. That is McPherson putting
the best face on things.
Westralia has suspicions that between half
and two-thirds of its ■ “group’’-settlement
money is lost and always has been. The
original idea. was that each grouper would
go on his cow-farm owing £1000; but the
individual debt was run up to over £2OOO,
and even to £3OOO. The budding grouper,
who is supposed to find £4 or more per
week as interest, doesn’t care much. He
can’t do it and he doesn’t try, knowing well
that it is impossible for the State to eject
him wholesale on to the highways.
South Australia, the other State which
went into the settlement' business in a big
way, admits, without too much detail,
that the position is bad all round, and “relies”
on a substantial grant from the Federal
Government.” It also keeps relying on the
money-lender as usual, and the Federal
Government does the same.
The land offers careers to thrifty men
with experience, or men who can afford
to buy their experience, but the crazy busi-
ness of putting novices without capital on
Government farms and trying to keep them
there will have to be stopped, once and for
all. It means personal tragedies in many
cases, as well as vast losses to the tax-
payers. Australia is in honor bound to
stick to the Digger-settlers, but civilians
have no more right to be provided with
farms at the county’s expense than with
stores or public-houses or newsagencies.
♦
Malthus’s Dead-end.
“Sydney North” makes a suggestion:—
If Providence had any definite plan when
starting the humanly incomprehensible
earth-scheme, it may be reasonably assumed
that the difficulty of putting more than two
pints in a quartpot was not overlooked.
It either planned for the existence of a con-
stantly-increasing quantity in a fixed space,
or it did not.
Mr. Malthus promulgates that if the
former was intended the scheme will not
work. Nor would it as far as anyone here
' can see. But Providence may have arranged
matters in a way which would never have
occurred to Mr. Malthus.
For example, there is one easy way by
which the time when the. earth will be so
crowded as to have no room for the next-
comer might be postponed. Reduce the size
of the human body! There is no apparent
reason"why the homo should measure to any
particular standard.
Every day the need of muscular strength
to sustain human life on this planet is dimin-
ishing. Steam and electricity do what
muscle used to do and do it much more
effectively. And when muscle is no longer
required in the scheme of things it will be
eliminated. Men, therefore, may be-expected
to become smaller and smaller.
Suppose they were cut down to a size at
which the present population of Sydney
could live in the space occupied by an ant-
hill. The probability is that people would
be much more comfortable at that size than
with the more bulky bodies that they have
now to carry about and feed and clothe.
If the average weight of a man was 70 tons,
imagine the relief it would be to get down to
the present standard. The bigger the animal
the more helpless it is. See a heavyweight
champion fighting against his weight in mos-
quitoes. He would not last one. round.
Bodily bulk seems to be just waste.
As mind develops muscle must atrophy.
The sound mind in the sound body does
not mean the sound mind in the big body.
Wihen mind becomes supreme there may be
no need for it to function through the
medium of flesh at all, and the grossness of
all animal life will disappear. Space would
then be of no consequence. Flying machines
would become obsolete, and in the kindly
folds of oblivion would the peddler of quack
strike-cures be enveloped, while the political
market-place where they were auctioned
would cease to be even a memory.
Either evolution is tending in that direc-
tion, or it has started with a dead-end
directly in view.
4
Where Town-planning Fails.
Melbourne’s Town-planning Commission
goes out of business at the end of the year,
and the MLacphairson Government pro-
poses to replace it with a small depart-
mental body which will be permanent. Why
there should be a permanent body of
advisers when the advice of the temporary
one was, except in one instance, never taken
is hard to explain, unless it will provide
a few more jobs for Government nominees.
The Town-planning Commission has done
an enormous amount of research and pub-
lished oceans of reports. Much of its work
was voluntary. It pointed out, what almost
any citizen could see, that the metropolis
was growing up in a shambling sort of way
and that commonsense applied at the
present moment at a cost of thousands
would save millions in the future. But
vested interests and municipal jealousies
were too strong. The only one of the com-
mission’s major recommendations that is
being carried out is the Spencer-street
bridge, and even that is being built, before
an artery leading from it has been placed
on the south side.
If the Government really wants to abolish
bottlenecks, provide sufficient lungs for the
suburbs which are ever growing more con-
gested, and do a multitude of other things
that will have to be done if Melbourne is
to become a really modern city, it should
dispense with boards or commissions until
it has placed on the Statute Book a Town-
planning Act, an Act that will grant the
board or commission power to carry out its
own advice.
♦
How 2s. 4 Ja d. Grew to £ll.
“Fitzwilliam”: I read the other day that
General Chauveu had ventured respectfully
to remind the Minister for Defence that
the primary object for which the Common-
wealth was constituted was to provide for
the naval and military defence of Aus-
tralia, and I smiled to myself, thinking how
self-centred these old brass-hats become
after a few years of it. Then I turned to
my pocket copy of the Commonwealth
Constitution. (I was one of those wdio voted
for it '3O years ago, and the annual cost of
Federation was to be 2s. per head, less
than it would cost to register a dog—they
proved it by figures.) And I can prove
General Chatjvel wrong. According to Sec-
tion 51, the Commonwealth was consti-
tuted for 39 purposes, of which naval and
military defence is but one.
It is true that out of the whole 39 the
Commonwealth Parliament has made a
conspicuous success of only two, that is to
say, taxation and borrowing money on
the public credit of the Commonwealth. A
number of powers have not been exercised
at all; for instance, those dealing with
banking, insurance, corporations, marriage,
divorce, the influx of criminals, and one or
two others. On the other hand, we have
what theologians call works of supereroga-
tion, such as the baby bonus and the
provision of speedways for motorists, as to
which the Constitution is silent. Other
people, in their coarse way, call these things
bribes.
Then we have the large class of activities
which the Commonwealth has attempted
and made a mess of, such as the post office,
defence, bankruptcy (the Commonwealth
Act is more cumbersome, slower in action
and more expensive than any State statute),
aliens, conciliation and arbitration, and all
that sort of thing.
And we have a High Court which is the
guardian of the Constitution. It once spent
nearly a week in determining that the
rider of a bicycle who was at the time in
the service of the Defence Department was
amenable to the traffic laws of a State;
and another in deciding whether a Common-
wealth civil servant is or is not liable
to put a tuppenny duty stamp on a receipt;
and it more recently decided, at the expense
of the P.M.G., that a man who takes over
a telephone with a house can be made to pay
£l2 left on the slate by the previous incum-
bent. All these things cost a great deal of
the taxpayers’ money to prove, but they
were proved—in much the same way as an
elephant might be made to perform the
work of a vacuum-cleaner, if the item of
expense were disregarded.
On the principle that a machine must
be judged by the accuracy, precision and
economy with which it performs its func-
tions, evidently the proper functions of
the Commonwealth are taxation and bor-
rowing, at a cost of about £ll per inhabi-
tant, instead of 2s. 4^d.
It makes me wonder whether we bright
young spirits of 30 years ago were having
our legs pulled by the politicians. DibbS
and the rest of the anti-Billites may have
known more than we did, after all; but I
doubt whether in their darkest nightmares
they ever dreamt of what the reality was
going to be.
+
Oars and the Tariff.
Australian motorists and the U.S. section
of the motor trade have no reason to give
three cheers for Page’s seventh Budget. The
Treasurer has discovered that “a consider-
able and increasing quantity of petrol
refined in Australia has been escaping taxa-
tion for road purposes,” so there is to be
excise duty of Id. per gallon. Also to pro-
vide road-construction funds, a customs duty
of 2d. - per gallon is to be imposed on the
petrol content of once-run distillate from
crude petroleum and crude petroleum en-
riched with a distillate; on petrol, naphtha,
etc., the duties remain at per gallon
British and 3d. foreign.
In addition, the tariff on motor chassis,
British and Canadian excepted, goes up
10 p.c. On unassembled chassis the new
duties are 22].- per cent, intermediate tariff
and per cent, general tariff, British
coming in free; on assembled chassis the
schedule now is 5 p.c. British, 30 p.c. inter-
mediate and 35 p.c. general.
The internal-combustion motor and its
child the motor-car have been mixed bless-
ings to the Commonwealth. Before the
stink of burnt petrol was known in the
land, Australia had practically become self-
supporting in the realm of transport. Rail-
way locomotives and rolling stock were
manufactured domestically, and in the
breeding of. horses and the manufacture of
vehicles and harness the country admitted
no superiors. After the advent of the con-
quering car the scene gradually changed.
A new standard of luxury has been set up,'
transport has been Americanised, the breed-
ing of horses and the buggy-and-hamess
trades have been discouraged. Withal there
has been the triple drain of huge payments
for imported cars and petrol, heavy losses
on railways and a vastly increased expendi-
ture on roads.
On the other hand, a considerable amount
of manufacturing industry has been based
upon motor imports. In this category come
motor-body-building, tyres, replacement
parts, petrol bowsers and accessories of all
kinds. In point of fact, every part of a
motor-car except the motor can be, and is
at present, made in Australia. Moreover,
marine motors of a very high degree of com-
plexity have been manufactured in this
country for years.
Two factors have hitherto operated
against the establishment in Australia of a
complete motor industry—the heavy initial
cost of plant and the existence of powerful
overseas interests which naturally desire to
retain a hold on a very lucrative market.
Will the spur of the new duties prompt
these interests to make cars, or at least
motors, in Australia? It is an interesting
possibility, though the Government’s objects
in, altering the tariff are to rake in more
revenue and transfer some of the trade in
motor vehicles from Uncle Samuel to the
Old Man.


L/C
RES
tghtaivß Whisky
xer; twrencozs
RED, WHITE and BLUE
WHISKY
Gaelic Special Reserve
DEARER BUT BETTER
ORME, KEIGWIN & CO., LTD.
269-271 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN AGENTS: JAMES HENTY & CO., 499 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND AGENTS: B. SEPPELT & SONS, LTD., 444 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
mk
RES
POLITICAL
POINTS
- The Federal Parliamentary Labor party
has met and resolved that the timber strikers
are acting nobly in their insurrection against
the Federal award. At the same time it
demands that the Federal Arbitration Court
shall continue to exist and hand out awards,
to be treated the same way, or worse. It
is a purely Scullinary attitude] but the Scullins
have put the last nail in tlftfcoflin of Federal
Arbitration. The Commonwealth can’t make
its court’s decisions respected unless it has
power to interfere in disturbances, wherever
they may arise, and has police and military
forces with which to scatter insurrectionary
mobs. There being no visible chance of get-
ting the power, the obvious course is for the
Commonwealth to get out of the Arbitration
business.
E. A.'TfTann, who
has been told, along
with Hughes, to keep
away from the Fed-
eral Nationalist party-
room, quitted it of his
own accord early in
the last Parliament,
but got back somehow
in time to be “en-
dorsed” for the gen-
eral election. Mann
used to be regarded in
Perth as a Labor sym-
pathiser, and in alli-
ance with the Trades
Hall he led a civil-
service strike against
a Nationalist Govern-
ment. Still, Laborites
were not greatly sur-
prised when he bobbed
up as a Nationalist
himself a few months
later. The Scullidores
would be glad to have
his vote at a crisis, but
the erratic Freetrader
would be an embarras-
E.A. Mann — outed.
sing ally.
Tasmania asked the Commonwealth for
£420,000 a year for the next five years,
that being “the minimum annual grant re-
quired for normal expenditui-e.” In addition,
McPhee says, £40,000 will be needed next
year to meet special expenditure on agricul-
ture, forestry and testing of low-grade
mineral ores, as recommended by the Develop-
ment and Migration Commission, and a
further £50,000 for interest and sinking fund
on the outlay necessitated by the floods.
Bruce-Page replies that the Speck will get
£250,000 a year for tite years, and no more.
S. Aus., for its part, is promised £360,000
this year; and Butler also wants a lot more,
Vic. Attorney-General Macfarlan’s Money-
lenders Bill is by no means drastic. Com-
pulsory registration is provided fox-, a ban
is placed on compound interest, and an un-
licensed person doing business and charging
more than 12 p.c. will commit an offence.
Correct names and places of business will
have to be supplied, and to make a trans-
action legal there must be a contract and
a memorandum of agreement. There are
now 441 registered lenders in Vic., and pro-
bably a larger number unregistered. It is
anticipated that licenses will yield £5OOO p.a.
in fees —10 times more than at present.
Maxwell, the sight-
less M.11.R. for Fawk-
ner (Vic.), sharply
criticised his Govern-
ment for withdrawing
the proceedings against
coal-baron Brown, but
refused to join Hughes
and Mann in voting
against it on his oppo-
ments’ censure motion.
So he is a favorite
target nowadays for
Labor-socialist mud.
His loudest detractors
are politicians who
ignobly abandoned the
timber-workers to the
leadership of a rabble
of imported Commu-
nists and I.W.W. men,
timorously acquiescing
in a hopeless strike
which has cost the
unions nearly a quar-
ter of a million in con-
tributions and wrecked
Federal Arbitration as
well as the strikers’
fortunes. These per-
sons should be the last
to call other people
humbugs and cock-
tails.
Maxwell votes for
the Government.
The N.S.W. branch of the Federated
Clerks’ Union is in a bad way. When its
original rules were drawn up the mistake
was made of not providing that the Clerks’
Union should be for clerks, and many sorts
of people have found it a place of refuge. It
is now described as “a veritable cesspool of
union-smashers, disruptionists and intri-
guers.” If the Communists can get hold of
the organisation, and introduce among the
staffs of business institutions the same
methods which prevail in the coal industry,
they will certainly have done something.
The inquiry into the cause of the sub-
sidence at Eildon weir—it was made by
Chapman, Dare and Ritchie, three engineers
—cost the Vic. Government £ll3O. Full
effect is being given to the recommendations
—a rare happening in this land of boards
and commissions. Some people, including
Labor-leader Hogan and the Argus editor,
want another investigation to fix the blame
for the fault in construction. As the man
who took most of the responsibility for the
design is dead, it is questionable whether a
second probe would do any good.
Australia is having poor luck with some
of its “permanent and reproductive” works.
Part of the lately-constructed Cairns (N.Q.)
wharf has collapsed, and the Harbor Board
has sent an SOS to E. A. Cullen, engineer
of the Harbor and Rivers Department. The
repair job won’t be on the Eildon weir
(Vic.) scale; still, thousands of pounds will
have to be spent to put the wharf in condi-
tion again, and the Moore Government will
be asked to find the money.
Australian Government advertising in the
U.K. seems to be kept in insulated com-
partments. A set of recipes has been issued
with the idea of pushing the sale of Aus-
tralian dried fruits; in every instance the
British housewife is advised to use Austra-
lian fruit and —margarine. Seemingly the
officials running the dried-fruits campaign
have never heard of Australian butter.
Labor Senator Hoare, of South Aus., has
won a private quarrel with his colleagues
concerning one of the plums of Parliament —
membership of the Public Accounts Commit-
tee. Hoare was appointed to the committee
18 months ago with the blessing of Caucus;
but just before the new Senators took their
places he was ordered to stand down in
favor of O’Halloran, also from South Aus.
Hoare was so wild that he wrote to the
“capitalist press” about it. Then he fell
back on precedent, it having been decided
long ago that membership of a standing com-
mittee was for three years. He gained
his point; O’Halloran withdrew.
The most spectacular timber-strike row
up to date was staged in Sydney to syn-
chronise with Premier Bavin’s return. A
force 1000 strong and carrying garden
stakes gathered outside a large timber yard
for no good or lawful purpose, and the Law
didn’t move it on. Notorious strike leaders
buzzed to and fro before the workers who
were to be bashed emerged from the yard.
When the assault commenced notorious
strike leaders rushed to and fro, waving
their arms, and calling on their troops to
desist and act as if they had only met for
devotional purposes. About a dozen arrests
were made, very small bail being granted
immediately. Premier Bavin promises to
take strenuous measures, but Bavin and
strenuous measures seem incongruous.
The war upon the Sydney timber yards
which are working under the Lukin award
is now carried on to a great extent by
hoodlums whose interest in timber is almost
wholly imaginary, but whose readiness for
vicious enterprise is unlimited. With these
permanent forces available it seems that the
alleged timber strike may go on for as many
years as funds can be extracted by pressure
from members of other unions. It is
threatened that the Government will apply to
Parliament for new powers, which it may
not get, or may not get for a long while,
and may not use in any case. Still, existing
law permits of the enrolment of 1000 extra
police; it allows, after application to Bruce
and co., for the formation of a State defence
force to aid the police; and it certainly
authorises the moving on of mobs without
waiting for the bashing to commence.
There is a faint echo from the days of Jock
McKenzie in Ward’s proposal, in the latest
Maoriland Budget, to impose a graduated
super-tax on land properties exceeding
£15,000 in value. The cry of "closer settle-
ment” has been mildly revived, and there is
talk in Government circles of exercising the
old statutory right, long disdained by the
Reformers, of compulsorily taking over large
estates at an arbitrated value. The Ward
party doesn’t get much support from large
landowners, and it will probably put its
threats into execution.
Yic. Treasurer McPherson is trying to
raise by conversion or by sale of s|-p.c.
securities across the counter sufficient to
cover a loan of 4i millions which is due
for redemption on October 1. Most of the
maturing stock bears interest at 5£ p.c., and
investors invited to convert are not asked
to make any sacrifice. Presumably, if there
is insufficient application Uncle Page will
come to the rescue.
Premier Butler (S.A.) has been paying
attention to a recurrence of the agitation
in London financial circles to have Aus-
tralian and other Dominion loans removed
from the statutory category of legal invest-
ments for trust funds. The Adelaide man,
while denying that Australia’s credit in
London has been impaired, philosophically
remarked that it would be a good thing if
this country were “forced upon its own
resources,” and compelled to “manufacture
goods previously imported from abroad.”
This is a welcome change from the preva-
lent attitude of regarding Australia’s ability
to totter to the pawnshops as its' principal
“resource.”
Australia is often
advised to follow
Maorila nd’s example
as regards catering
for the tripper
from overseas.
Maorilanders them-
selves are begin-
ning to have doubts
as to whether or-
ganisation of the
business is worth
while. Ex-Premier
Francis Bell, for
one, maintains that
the overseas visi-
tors contribute no-
thing to the revenue
of the country; in-
deed, they view its
scenic . beauties at
cut rates, made pos-
sible by local taxa-
tion to meet the
losses on Govern-
ment hostels and
such places. What
is worse, they
spread demoralisa-
tion wherever they
go by tipping lav-
ishly and behaving
as if they were a
superior race.
Ex-Premier
Francis Bell.
The year’s cabling and wirelessing be-
tween Australia and Britain panned out at
over 15 million words, an enormous increase
over previous aggregates. The beam took
64 p.c. of the total, but the largest propor-
tion of this was the cheaper class of mes-
sage. Partly through conservatism and
partly through caution, commercial con-
cerns still patronise the cables, though it
costs them fourpence a word more. This
is an interesting commentary on the findings
of a recent commision which denounced the
Government for not going baldheaded in
favor of wireless. Secrecy and reliability are
useful in peace time. They are absolutely
vital in time of war.
The Kuomiutang evidently imagines that all
Australians are like the bosses of the A.C.T.L ~
and the Sydney Trades and Eabor Coiinen
and the Railwaymen’s Union, who “affiliate
with the Pan-Pacific Trades-union Secre-
tariat,” and those who arrive at Nanking or
Vladivostock every few months to humbly
receive instructions from the Reds. Anyway
the Chinese Consul-General has reguested the
Commonwealth Government to "modify the
restrictions on Chinese nationals resident in
Australia and on trade between China ami
Australia.” In a postscript the gentleman
remarks that “the Northern Territory would
be a wonderful place for the Chinese to
colonise.” This attitude is a natural result
of the efforts of “class-conscious” Austra-
lians to bring about “closer union with our
comrades in the countries bordering the
Pacific,” so presumably the Raes and Beas-
leys and Gardens and Crofts and Chapmans
are satisfied.
A. A. Edwards, one of the State Labor
members for Adelaide, backed the _ wrong
horse in the all-in race
A.A. Edwards.
for the Central Dis-
trict seat in the Deg.
Council, and was so
free with his remarks
about Whitford, the
ultimate winner, and
some of Whitford’s
backers (particularly
Yates, M.11.R.) that
he is reckoned to have
endangered his own
position in “the move-
ment.” There was
plenty of money be-
hind the candidature
of Edwards’s man,
Bardolph. who is man-
aging editor of the
S.A. Worker. Nearly
a page of the leading
“capitalist” daily was
hired one morning to
point out, among other
things, that Bardolpli’s
paper “has never been
any financial drain on
‘the movement,’ as
was the case with the
Daily Herald.” It is confidently expected
that there will be a lot more of these plea-
santries.
The Chinese tongs have been giving trouble
in Fiji again; in a recent outbreak the
police had to fire on the rioters. The
Americans in the Philippines have found an
effective method of dealing with the nuisance.
Civil war between two of the leading secret
societies had ruined the rest of law-abiding
citizens in Manila ; also, all tongs were united
in an anti-Japanese boycott. Having lost
its patience, the Government curtly informed
leading Celestial citizens of great wealth
and tonnage that if the tong war did not
cease they would be deported. The trouble
ceased like magic.
Treasurer Page finds comfort in the thought
that Australia has “a huge extent of fertile
virgin soil available for exploitation,” “an
unrivalled climate,” and the use of “a huge
amount of outside capital.” The gentleman
represents as an asset the fact that the
country is heavily in debt abroad, and pays
interest out of more loans. Australia
was lifted from a depressed condition when
gold was found in Victoria and N.S.W.
about 1850, and it was lifted again by the
finds in Westralia about 1891. But neither
wheat nor wool nor sugar nor any other
raw or boiled or fried material ever raised
it from the condition of adding £54.000,000
to its external debt in a single year, as the
Federal Statistician says it did in 1927-28,
because it didn’t produce enough and con-
sumed foreign luxuries too much. That
state of dry rot can’t be cured by a hopeful
yet hopeless Treasurer sitting on a fence and
watching the wheat come up, important as
wheat is.
As the first session of the new Maoriland
Parliament progresses it becomes obvious
that the principal issue between the Ward
and Coates parties is the Ward decision to
complete the South Island main trunk rail-
way. This work was recommended to the
Coates Government by the Fay-Raven Com-
mission five years ago, but Coates, most
of whose followers were North Islanders,
would not build it, though he adopted recom-
mendations to spend millions in the North.
Now the Coates party argues that no railway
expenditure should be undertaken without
investigation by a royal commission, and it
doesn’t seem to have occurred to anyone to
retort that the case in point was decided
exactly that way.
“Catspaw”: Not so long ago in the
bar-parlor of the “Bucket and Blood” at
Thursday Island I listened-in to a heated
argument between two pilots as to the
number of navigable channels through the
reef. The discussion ceased when a bland
son of Nippon (skipper of a bgche-de-mer
lugger) cut in with “Me know six channel
where big Japanese warship he can go.”
That’s about twice as many as the Admi-
ralty charts vouch for.
A NEGLIGENT MIDAS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Walter Marks, M.H.R., speaking on the censure
motion, said that he was not affected to tears when
he heard that John Brown was to be prosecuted.
During the long period for which they had been
intimate, the magnate had shouted him only one
bottle of beer. (Laughter.)”
His shafts pierce into the bowels of earth
and bring him wealth from a score of
seams;
There’s nobody knows how much lie’s worth ;
’tis just a figure of which one dreams.
He looms, the heftiest of the lot, in the bowl
where the glittering goldfish swim ;
Stan Bruce and his cobbers might have got
their walking-ticket along of him.
He could find the needful—nor miss the bunce
—for Uni. chairs and for people’s parks,
But —oh, to think of it! —only once did he
shout a bottle of beer for Marks!
He has friends, no doubt, in a goodly shoal,
and some are trusted and tried and leal,
But he hasn’t grappled all to his soul,
Polonius-fashion, with ’mops of steel.
Immersed in his vast industrial schemes he
seldom bothered or stopped to think
How deadly long the period seems to a
listener between drink and drink.
Mischief is wrought by want of tact; there’s
an absent-pxindedness that narks,
And this remains a saddening fact: he never
shouted but once for Marks!
Steamei’s and trains his good coal freights,
in furnaces you hear it roar;
It flames and glows in a myriad grates—or
will again when the strike is o’er.
There’s lots could live on the income-tax he
pays, with moi’e than a bit to spare,
But the art of winning goodwill he lacks,
devoid of a certain savoir-faire.
Though he takes his toll with each ship that
clears, and wherever upward fly the
sparks,
’Twas only once in donkey’s years he shouted
a bottle of beer for Marks !
N.S.W.
IFORD.


Poverty
Point
« —"
YOU FORGET YOURSELF J
The court &a,ve us fifteen
Minutes com&ing ouq hmr",
"How dare vou
> Fifteen minutes
FOQ making,-up
HAVENT you READ •
THE AWARD?”
fC Tms IS GETTING* SEYONO ENDURANCE-
The AvNARD sws”
“ReAs\_l.V, M? Justice ©EEByToN
'NIL.L THAVp TO ! *
c *!m gwin& you the Business?
\\x. BE THE STAFF*’
WHAT IT MAY COME TO.
"At the instance of the union a Sydney firm has been fined £3, with 14s. costs, for not supplying a girl employee with morning tea. It pleaded unavailingly that it
supplied tea during the lunch-hour.”
“Cine Ma”: British talkies should soon
be arriving in Australia with a rush,
and, judging by the talent engaged
upon them, they should bear compari-
son with the American. Joseph Hislop,
the Scottish tenor who visited this country
last year, will star in “The Loves of
Robert Burns” ; C. H. Cochrane is directing
bis own revue ; Herbert Wilcox, whose ver-
sion of the Nurse Cavell story was the
greatest picture of 1928, will superintend
the filming of Stacpoole’s “Blue Lagoon,’’
and “Journey’s End” will be screened with
the English cast now playing it in New
York. Galli-Curci, Heifetz and Chaliapin
will figure in the talkie shorts.
“A.L.” : Melbourne Repertory 'Society can
claim direct descent from the founders of
the movement. Clewlow, its director, was
one of the first actors in the Birmingham
Repertory Theatre, where Repertory was
born and fostered by Miss ITorniman. ’ Sybil
Thorndike played at the theatre in those
days, and, according to Clewlow, played
better than she has done since in the com-
mercial theatre. Clewlow has decided that
there shall be no music at future per-
formances of the Melbourne society; the
idea is that the audience should find enough
in a play to give it a full evening’s entertain-
ment.
“Tarantula”: Wirths’ Circus has not
visited Murrurundi (N.S.W.) for many
years, and there’s a reason. In 1910 rain
fell so heavily on the opening night that
the tent collapsed on the audience. Then in
1912 five lions escaped, and roamed round
all night. All were captured in the morning,
the only casualty being the baker’s horse,
which was killed. But the management
declared there was a hoodoo or something on
the place, and left it for ever.
“Goldilocks”: Among the Australian
experiences of CyriLKeightley was a trip with
a company organised by Albert Norman
when he quarrelled with Bland Holt. The
tourers included Iveiglitley’s mother, who
played in a special version of “Robbery
Under Arms,” the part of which she was the
novel’s original. That historical association,
howeyer, did not save the company from be-
coming nearly stranded when, after it had
done Charters Towers and Townsville, it
reached Normanton. There two inhabitants
rallied with solid cash to help it out.
“Cine Ma” : As far as Melbourne is con-
cerned, at any rate, “Stellsby” (B. 14/8/’29)
is wrong when he says that audiences at
orchestral concerts are mere noise-lovers and
feminine adorers of conductors with sex
appeal. Some such are doubtless always
present, but they would never fill a huge
place like the Town Hall week after week,
as has been happening at Yarraburg. Contrary
to “Stellsby’s” dictum, there is far less “popu-
lar appeal” in Ileinze and Hart programmes
than there was in those of recent visiting
virtuosi, Giannini and Heifetz perhaps ex-
cepted. In the near future the University
Orchestra will tackle Beethoven’s Ninth
Symphony. That doesn’t look like truckling
to a feather-headed mob.
“Exile” (London) : At performances of
“Cavalleria” and “Pagliacci” by the Carl
Rosa Opera Co. here crowded houses
applauded Pauline Bindley, daughter of
Pauline Schuler, formerly of Grey-street,
East Melbourne, and niece of the late G. F.
11. Schuler, who was editor of the Age.
Singing in other operas were Horace Stevens,
Fred Collier and Elsie Treweek, with Aylmer
Buesst as one of the conductors —all of them
Australians.
“Lysander”: Diminutive Tui Black, a hit
in the Firm’s “Five-o’clock Girl,” could not
very well escape being a histrion and singer.
Her dad belongs to the profesh, her mother
has for years been well known as a teacher
of music in Geelong (Vic.), her aunt, Mrs.
Oswald Hearne, is an amateur vocalist much
in demand for chamber concerts in the Pivot
city, and her uncle is president or some-
thing of most musical societies there, and
has been organist for years at one of the
leading churches. Tui has been on the local
platform from babyhood, going through all
phases, from elocution up. It speaks well
for her that she won a newspaper-firm con-
test on quality, for the piquant midget has
neither presence nor chocolate-box looks.
“F.S.”: Musical Melbourne’s rejoicings
over the boom in orchestral concerts have
been somewhat tempered by the discovery
that the acoustics of the new Town Hall
could scarcely be worse. The baleful effects
vary in different parts of the chamber. In
some there is a distressing loss of volume;
in others there is a muzzy effect which
destroys the brightness of the playing. Even
on the platform complaints are loud. The
first violins cannot hear the seconds, and per-
formers in a symphony have to paddle their
own canoe in a sort of musical fog which
prevents the individual player knowing the
general direction of the mass. The archi-
tects feared echo, so they covered the walls
with a fabric. If this should go the most
ambitious piece of fresco work in Australia
will have to go with it, for Napier Waller
used it as the canvas for his classic figures.
“West”: Amateur societies in Perth are
awaking to the fact that their job is to give
what the commercial theatre doesn’t, and
won’t, give—serious dramatic fare. The
Repertory Club recently offered O’Casey’s
“Juno and the Paycock” for three nights,
presenting and acting a good play well.
The Uni. Dramatic Society has also been
busy, and promises in a week or two an
ancient morality play (“Everyman”) and
Shaw’s “Dark Lady of the Sonnets.”
“Hamfat” : Alfred Winn, deposited in Syd-
ney through the stranding of a> company
playing at the- Opera House, has become
secretary of the Actors’ Union in place of
Charlie Dunn, who has held the job for 10
years. Winn is an Australian, who went
to America 28 years ago and only returned
last year.
“Cu-ee” (London) : Just on four years ago
the “Armor Boys,” from Westralia, were
given a hearing at the Sydney Tivoli, and
were engaged to play a few weeks on the
circuit. They afterwards packed their grips,
and gamely faced London, where, however,
nobody was keen to take a chance with
them. Moving on to the Continent, they have
slowly, but surely, reached the top in revue.
A few weeks ago they returned to London,
and they now have contracts well into 1930.
“Hamfat” : Harry Hilling, who started not
many years ago as a boy at Melbourne Tivoli
and became its house manager, afterwards
going to England for the management, has
struck more oil overseas. He has been
picked to manage the Alhambra, a 3000-
capacity theatre, which opens in Paris in
November. He will also look after the Con-
tinental end of a big theatrical exchange’s
business.
“J.V.W.”: Lionel Walsh, part-owner of
the Royal in Hobart Town, has the script
of “Speed the Plough,” the play with which
the house opened in 1833. He cherishes
secret designs (D.V.) of putting it on for
the approaching centenary. Which reminds
me that, though revivals of “The Beggar’s
Opera,” “Maria Martin” and “Sweeney
Todd” have been successes in London
recently, all three have flopped in Aus-
tralia. The Firm did Gay’s piece at
Sydney Talace some years ago, with a
cast that included Ilowitt Worster and
Jack Cannot; a small band of heroes (it
was tlieir own money they put up) lately
played “Maria Martin” at Newtown Majes-
tic, and, undaunted by the slaughter of
innocents that had gone before, Reuben
Baker revived “Sweeney Todd, the Moor of
Venice, or the Demon Barber of Fleet-street,”
to give the latest flop its full billing.
“Cauboy”: The question is being asked
in Melbourne why no member of the A.I.F.
has written a “Journey’s End.” Opinions
vary, some saying that it is just luck, like
England only producing one Sliakspeare in
1000 years. The Herald, however, staunchly
asserts that “it is inconceivable that in Aus-
tralia now there are not scores of writers
capable of producing a ‘Journey’s End,’ ’’ and
blames the theatrical firms for the failure
of the play to come to light. As to whether
there were so many incipient playwrights
amongst the A.I.F. enlistments I am not in
in a position to say, but I can give one
instance to show that were a “Journey’s
End” to be written by an Australian the
last place in which it would see the light
would be an Australian legitimate theatre.
The nearest approach to “Journey’s End”
yet written in Australia is Betty M. Davies's
“The Touch of Silk.” It deals with th»
postwar reactions of a Digger, is brilliantly
written, good theatre in every sense and
absorbingly interesting from first to last. It
was well received by critics and audiences
when Clewlow produced it for four nights
at the Playhouse last year. No professional
theatrical manager has shown the slightest
interest in it.
“C.T.H.”: Bowed to the last curtain in
Sydney, Alf Driscoll, one of the Driscoll
Boys, who were a great drawcard on the
Rickards and Fuller circuits in the days
when patter-and-song acts were the chief
weakness of entertainment seekers. At the
time he went out Alf was treasurer of
Fullers’ Theatre, Sydney. The other half
of the act, Bob, broke away from the game
altogether to carry on a hairdressing busi-
ness in Sussex-street. The pair married
sisters, Florrie and Stella Ranger respec-
tively, who were also a noted vaudeville
team in their days.
“Cyrano” (London) :< A queer breach of
theatrical etiquette was made at the Hol-
born Empire the other day by one of the
oldest personalities in the English show busi-
ness, Fred Karno, the man who found Charlie
Chaplin. During the act of Naughton and
Gold, two English comedians who went pretty
well in Australia a few years ago, Fred
apparently got an idea into his head that
the boys were plagiarising some of his
material, and, in a moment of heat, went on
the stage to stop them. So _ cleverly did
the pair cover up the intrusion that the
public thought it was part of the act, and
at the moment of writing no paper has
heard the story.
“H'amfat”: An item of interest about
“Hold Everything,” one of the musical com-
edies “The Firm” is to introduce to Aus-
tralia, is that its success in London -was
made by John Kirby, Australian, and George
Gee. who is almost Australian. Jack, who
made his bow with Petersham (Sydney)
amateurs, is now regarded as London’s fore-
most comedian.
JAZZ NIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
See the nigger wave his arms, hear the nigger
howl!
Watch him bang the big brass drum, make
the saxo. yowl!
“Oh, the blues! Oh, the blues!” shout the
dusky crew ;
Ain’t it edifying, all the funny things they
do?
See yon sooty Hercules blowing out his
cheeks,
Don’t forget lie’s practised that for weeks
and weeks and weeks.
See the sweating octoroon on the brass trom-
bone
Imitating somebody drunk and far from
home.
Ain’t they all a happy crew, madly, gladly
gay?
Don’t you feel you’d like to go giddy same
as they?
Drain the cup of Mumbo-Jumbo to its
blackest bottom ,
Shake and shimmy on the floor just as if
you’d “got ’em.”
VICTORIA.
JOHN WILSON.


ore
sr
c=; r' Vw'• ;,2f rtiv*
pr»* wi." -j» in i^jj^eaaify
UHHH
V.C'tBW,.
%
*■**
m
raft
?vf
/*
SS!
y'.s
Snd better'
VIRGINIA CORK TIPPED
CIGARETTES
15 for I -
The W. D. 6? H. O. Wilts (Aust.) Ltd-
factory at Raleigh Park, where
'’Country Life” Cigarettes are made,
MADf IN YOUR OVN COUNTRY
:.y
w
fify
Pc
Qo
Cs.
mm
to
<£*
M
c>;
335
23 for 16
m
m
BY ¥DIH OWIILf (AU,I >
LTD.


NEVER BEFORE SUCH EXCELLENT
FIELD-GLASSES AT £4 4/-
Never before have we been able to
offer such exceptionally good quality
field-glasses at so low a price. In-
spection would immediately convince
you of their remarkable value their
fine luminosity—sharp, clear defi-
nition and wide field of vision.
Magnification eight times —
-—sold complete with leather
carrying strap and leather
case.
You may send for a pair of
these Binoculars with every
confidence as to their quality.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
Sight-testing Opticians,
23-25 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
fi" ?
Dependable power transmission
is one of the greatest factors in the
successful operation of the power plant.
MANGRO VITE WATERPROOF
Leather or Raw-hide Belting
ensures absolute efficiency in that direction—for it
is a product of the highest quality, tried and proved
on many important installations. Mangrovite Belting
is cemented throughout with waterproof cement;
rivets or stitches are not used in its manufacture.
The result is a belting impervious to wet or damp
conditions that will run smoother, more .evenly,
give greater grip and considerably more' resistance
to hard wear, and is actually 25 per cent, better
value than belts made under the old method. Samples
free to any address. *
MANGROVITE BELTING, LTD.,
Charles Ludowici, Managing Director,
49 YORK STREET (WYNYARD SQUARE), SYDNEY.
S3®*:
MANGMmz
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Some Septemboi- birthdays: —-
G. D. Delprat, 73, S. Aus. Speaker Laffer, 63, and
Ken Austin (Syd.), 47, on Ist; Archbishop Duhig
(Bris.), 58, and ex-Minister Wearne (N.S.W.), 62,
on 2nd; Brig.-Gen. Brand, 56, and Arthur W. Jose,
66, on 4th ; Melb. barrister Dr. Ellis, 44, on sth ;
artist Chas. Nuttall, 57, on 6th; Q’land Minister W.
Queensland Police-Commissioner RYAN.
H. Barnes, 71, and C. J. Dennis (“Sentimental
Bloke”), 53, on 7th ; Bishop Wilson (Bunbury),
69, N.S.W. Industrial Commissioner Piddington, 67,
Capr. Storkey, V.C., 38, and Dr. Baldwin (Vic. Gov’t
Astronomer), 51, on 9th; Adelaide Lud Mayor
Bonython, 54, on 10th; W. A. Jolly (Mayor of
Greater Brisbane), 47, on 11th; Gen. Birdwood, 64,
and Vic. Senator Guthrie, 57, on 13th; Justice
Northmore (W.A.), 64, on 14th; J. A. Lyons (Speck’s
ex-Premier), 50, Lieut.-Col. .Hurry (M.H.R. for
Bendigo), 61, and L. H. Sholl (formerly S. Aus.
Under-Sec.), 85, on 15th; Prof. Walter Murdoch
(W.A. Uni.), 55, on 17th; Justice McArthur (Vic.),
68, Federal Labor-leader Scullin, 53, and W. A. M.
Blackett (Melb. architect), 56, on 18th; Vic.
Premier McPherson, 64, and Major-Gen. Tivey, 63,
on 19th; Prof. Nicholson (Syd. Uni.), 54, on 20th;
Philip Charley, 66, and Col. Heritage (Duntroon),
52, on 21st; W.A. Minister Munsie, 59, on 22nd;
Major-Gen. Brudenell White, 53, on 23rd; Bishop
Hay (Hobart), 62, Samuel Hordern, 53, and Lieut.-
Col. Murphy (N.S.W. Sheriff), 46, on 24th; Billy
Hughes, 65, on 25th; Rev. Dr. Ch'as. Strong (Melb.),
85, on 26th; Chief Justice Murray (S. Aus.), 66,
and ex-Senator Josiah Symon, 83, on 27th; Prof.
Oxer (Ormond Coll.), 61, on 28th; Canon Wray
(Wangaratta), 65, artist Rupert Bunny, 65, and
Donald Mackinnon (Vic.), 70, on 29th; Brig.-Gen.
Grant (Q-), 59, on 30th.
Jim Ivenny, who seconded the Address-in-
Reply motjon in the Queensland Parlia-
ment —the lady member, Mrs. Longman,
was the mover—ousted Harry Ryan from the
Cook seat in May. During the cam-
paign he made two trips to each of the
scattered towns in his district, which includes
Croydon, Cooktown and Thursday Island;
these peregrinations entailed a good deal of
roughing it, and the distance covered was
about 5000 miles. Kenny, though just turned
30, is a returned soldier. He enlisted at
16, got his commission, and was knocked
at Hamel in 1918. Invalided home, he has
been one of the Atherton Tableland’s keen-
est business men for some years.
Old Henry Peckman is rather eontemptu-
ous of the cars which
rush their passengers
over the road from
Katomba to .Tenolnn
Caves. He drove the
first four-wheeler to
make the trip, and
escorted Lord and
Lady Carrington there
on horseback; and he
swears that the con-
temporary tripper
doesn’t e n joy the
scenery nearly as much
ns the Carringtons did.
An “Oxbury” native,
Beckham was a Cobb
and Co. man, and be-
fore the railway came
lie drove the coach
from Penrith to Lith-
gow. He was a cabby
in later years, and
retired at 83—only
about 12 months ago.
T.W. WHITE,
M.H.R. for Balaclava.
His maiden speech
made an excellent
impression.
Commonwealth Treasurer Earle Page, who
has just entered upon his 50th year, still
thinks his native Grafton (N.S.W.) the most
wonderful place in the world, though he has
seen many cities since he went abroad as
A.I.F. surgeon. He is the only member of
liis family who has taken any interest in
politics. One brother is a Macqunrie-street
doctor; another is on the administrative
staff at Rabaul; a third is a missionary in
Tonga. The old mother is still hale and
hearty.
George E. Emery, who is retiring from
the general managership of the State Savings
Bank in Vic., started in the branch in his
native town of Castlemaine in 1574. He
has seen the deposits of the concern grow
from £BO,OOO to £66,000,000 and the deposi-
tors increase from 33,700 to over a million.
Emery was mainly responsible for the crcdit-
foncier system being extended to farms and
later to suburban homes.
Mick Moroney, twice Mayor of Newcastle,
has been gathered to his fathers at the ripe
age of 83. Coming to Australia in his child-
hood, he spent most of his life in and about
Newcastle, and was in turn blacksmith, pro-
moter of foot-races, publican and brewers’
representative. He never tasted the stuff
that biteth like an alligator, though he sold
oceans of it.
If E. A. Evans, the new Westralian Com-
missioner, needs advice on any point of rail-
way administration he can consult two
former chiefs as well as Harold Pope, whom
he immediately succeeded —-W. J. George,
M.L.A., who was Commissioner for six years
(1902-08), and J. T. Short (190 S-19).
George and Pope are in poor health, but
Short is as sound as a bell, though he has
turned 70. A Cousin .Tack, he came to the
Westralian railways service with wide experi-
ence. He did good work for the State, and
would have done better but for meddlesome
politicians.
Reginald Heaney, dead in S.A., was one of
the youngest Diggers in the A.I.F. His father
was in the 10th Battalion, and the son went
away as bugler. Later he saw service in
the 43rd and 50th Battalions, was gassed
and made prisoner. Afterwards he had 10
years in the Soldier-Settlement Department,
but he never quite recovered from the gassing.
He was only 31 at the end.
A man of many and varied experiences is
Dr. H. T. Postle, of Launceston. A Vic-
torian and a Melbourne Uni. graduate, he
qualified for the Presbyterian ministry and
became Moderator of the Kirk in Tassy. Fol-
lowed a year with the A.1.F.; then he be-
came principal of the Presbyterian Girls’
College at Adelaide, leaving that for a school
of his own in Launceston. Between times
he was a Uni. Extension lecturer and a
W.E.A. tutor. Now he has been admitted
to the Tas. Bar. Dr. Postle has a hatful of
scholastic degrees.
Dr. A. L. Kenny, who has been placed on
the Vic. Medical Board (which registers and
controls the profession) in succession to
George Syme, is a pillar of the Australian
College of Surgeons, and one of the Coll ins-
street elect. Educated at Xavier College,
Kew, and Melbourne Uni., lie has, while
earning a place in the front rank of surgeons,
won distinction as a Catholic layman. He
is a Knight of St. Gregory the Great and a
Chamberlain to the Pope.
The father of the new Queensland
House is G. P. Barber, member for Bunda-
berg since July 6, 1901—three days short of
Speaker Levy’s record in the Ma State.
Barber has fought 13 election campaigns and
the 13th w r as the hardest. He has never had
a taste of office, though he is philosophical
enough not to brood over it. He is popular
with both parties, and there are few racier
raconteurs in the North.
William McPherson completed nine months
as Premier of Vic. on Thursday. A capable
administrator, lie is not cut out for leader-
ship of a turbulent Leg. Assembly. He
would be happier as No. 2 to a leader of
the type of Willie Watt at his best. But
there are no Watts among the non-Laboritcs
in the present State Parliament.
John Newton Shaekleton, who passed over
in Melbourne recently, wrote his own epitaph.
It reads: “Here lieth John Newton Shackle-
ton, F.A.A. (Eng.), F.C.A.A., F.A.1.5.,
founder of the Australasian Institute of Sec-
retaries (Incorporated). Great is the truth,
and it shall prevail.”
Although Australian Jewry does not
supply many members to the Jewish ministry,
Rev. Eleazer P. Phillips, who is on the point
of resigning from the charge of the Garnet-
hill synagogue, Glasgow, is Australian-born;
he first saw the light in Adelaide 73 years
ago, when his father was Rabbi there.
Phillips has been minister in his Glasgow
synagogue for 50 years.
The death of Captain Wing, aged 87, at
Auckland (M.L.) recalls the greatest naval
disaster in the Southern Hemisphere. Wing
was signalman at Manukau Heads when
IL.M.S. Orpheus, bound from Sydney to
Auckland, struck the Manukau bar on Febru-
ary 7, 1863, the waters closing over 185 out.
of her complement of 256. At the inquiry it
was proved that the commander had ignored
Wing’s signals, and relied on the sailing
directions compiled by officers of 11.M.5.
Niger, which often visited the port. In later
years Wing ran paddle-steamers between
Geelong and Melbourne, and he skippered a
variety of craft in M.L. waters before he
retired.
Lieut.-Col. Steve Bruggy, for whom the
Last Post has sounded in Sydney, was
A.A.-G. at Horseferry-road, and in that capa-
city was anything but popular with the Dig-
gers. One dissatisfied warrior wrote up ‘on
a wall: “There are 99,999 cows in the A.1.F.,
and Bruggy is all. of them.” Bruggy was
rather proud of his unpopularity, and a man
like that has points, especially where toler-
ance is likely to be carried to extremes. A
Permanent-Force man, arid a veteran of the
Boer War, Bruggy left Australia in 1914 as
adjutant of the 4th Light Horse, and gained
quick promotion as a soldier who knew his
job. After 1918 he reverted to a staff job
with the C.M.F., and was A.Q.M.G. in
N.S.W. at the time of his death, though
he had been ill for many months. He was
only 52.
Macfarlan, the Vic. Attorney-General, who
introduced four bills in the Leg. Assembly
in one week, has acquired the knack of getting
the ear of the House and of keeping it. He
has a simple, lucid style, more conversational
than oratorical, and keeps to essentials. Mac-
farlan has been in Parliament less than a
year, but took to its ways quickly, being a
good mixer.
A grave in St. Ivilda cemetery has received
Edward Littlejohn Backhouse, of. Yea, who
established two grammar schools in the sea-
side suburb and was principal of one or the
other for years. Later he was classical master
at Geelong Grammar School. Leaving teach-
ing he turned to law. Backhouse was a
pillar of Anglicanism, and a fine old-fashioned
gentleman.
Cecil McVilly, appointed Inspector of
Charities in Victoria in place of R. J. Love,
is a Cabbage-Gardener, who spent much of
his life .in Tassy. After good service in the
war, he was for some time medical adminis-
trative officer for Repat. His great rowing
record —he won the Diamond Sculls at
Henley in 1913, and was amateur champion
sculler of Australia in 1910-11-14—caused
the Victorian Rowing Association to appoint
him sole selector and coach of the last King’s
Cup crew.
Labor-leader Hogan referred the other day
to H. W. Clapp, Chief Railway Commis-
sioner, as “this Yankee manager.” Clapp, of
course, is Victorian-born, like Hogan. He
went to the U.S.A. to acquire railway ex-
perience, and was induced by Arthur Robin-
son, then Attorney-General, to come back
at £5OOO a year. Hogan also left the State
in his youth to seek his fortune. He got as
far as Kalgoorlie, where he became a union
secretary. Happening to be back on a visit
when G. F. Holden resigned the Warrenheip
seat to become chairman of Melb. Harbor
Trust, Hogan stood and won. He would
have had to wait years for a chance in Kal-
goorlie—the goldfields Labor members of the
period were well dug in.
Allen Innes, managing director of the
Salamau Bay Trading Co., was in Burns,
Philp’s island service for 16 years. The
Salamau people snapped him up when the
Edie Creek goldfields broke out, and he was
largely responsible for converting an untidy
native village into a lively little port. There
is a ’drome there now, besides stores and a
hotel with mod. con., including e.-l. Innes’s
wife has contributed verse and prose to some
of the leading English weeklies.
Thomas Behan, who arrived in Queens-
land with his parents in the eighteen-sixties,
has followed them over the hill. He became
a general surveyor, and for years mapped
out the Cairns hinterland, adding the survey
of the Croydon goldfield to his other acti-
vities. In his spare time he experimented
with rice- and coffee-growing and ostrich-
farming. Behan’s later years were devoted
to squatting in the Barcoo country, and he
died at one of his properties there, having
crammed a lot of achievement into his 69
years.
Hugh Pye, corealist at Dookie Agricultural
College ( Vic.), is carrying on the good work
Of wheat-breeding that Farrer forwarded so
conspicuously, lie was Farror’s friend, and
encouraged the N.S.W. scientist to persevere
with the tests that resulted in the production
of Federation wheat. Pye, an old man now,
keeps on experimenting. lie is an interesting
talker and a facile writer.
G. W. Stokes, formerly a district officer in
the Lands Department, Melb., who passed
out the other day, at 72, was in Ids younger
days a Richmond cricketer; he played in
inter-State matches. Skittles was another
hobby, and his skill at it once saved him
from an attack by two footpads. He was
on his way home at dusk, carrying a roll of
cheese, about 41b. in weight, when 6ne of the
ruffians barred his way while the other stood
a few yards behind. Stokes whirled the cheese
at the first tough and bowled him over. The
second man also received a wattlesnoozer
in the stomach. Then, recovering his cheese,
Stokes made good time towards the railway
station a quarter of a mile ahead.
Dr. PURDY, new -president of the N.S.W.
Diggers’ League. He is Sydney’s
Municipal Health Officer.
: The late Lord Horne (B.
21/8/’29) had a warm corner in his heart
for Dominion troops, as Light H'orse units
inspected by him in Egypt would testify.
His pet idiosyncrasy was indulgence in that
mongrel lingo the Taal, a smattering of which
he had picked up in the smaller war. The
sight of a South African ribbon invariably
brought a string of interrogations, which the
individual addressed- —either because he had
never bothered to learn the gibberish or had
forgotten what little he had learned —was
often at a loss to answer.
“Brady’s Lookout”: It wasn’t in 1808 that
Governor Macquarie stood godfather to a
baby girl of the Cawthorn family at Mac-
quarie Plains, Tasmania (B. 31/7/’29).
Macquarie visited the Speck twice, in 1811
and 1821; it was on his second trip that he
acted as sponsor, the baby being named Eliza-
beth Macquarie, after the Governor’s wife.
She was my grandfather’s sister; she died
in 1890.
THE OUTCASTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Hughes said that Mr. Bruce was out of step
with the time and would find it out very shortly.”
“Mr. Mann remarked that, along with himself, one
of the Empire’s great personalities had been expelled
from the National party.”
Said Hughes to Mann: “I yet may chant
Resurgo,
But for the present we’re beneath the ban,
Thrown from the fold even as Ishmaels.
Ergo
No more those stealthy, vicious kicks a tergo
We’ll aim at Stan,”
Said Billy Hughes to Mann.
Said Mann to Hughes: “The both of us must
suffer
For sacred principles and forthright views,
But you, I reckon, in the hide are tougher,
And I must run a heavier risk, old buffer,
My seat to lose,”
Said Teddy Mann to Hughes.
Said Hughes to Mann: “Time was with
colors flying
I strode from Caucus forth, and half the
clan
Followed, entire approval signifying.
No follower now on whom to be relying
Save you I scan,”
Said Billy Hughes to Mann.
Said Mann to Hughes: “A great Imperial
figure *
You’ve cut and filled a Mussolini’s shoes.
Say, has King Billy lost his old-time vigor?
I’ll march beneath your banner, Little
Digger,
Where’er you choose,”
Said Teddy Mann to Hughes.
Said Hughes to Mann: “Mate in misfortune,
steady!
Revenge on those who’ve chucked us out
we’ll plan.
To fill a leader’s rOle again I’m ready.
Can you be my co-operative Teddy
Bear? That you can!”
Said Billy Hughes to Marin.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


SOCIETY
"and it's
printed with
WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Slide Rule”: In response to an ad. for
laborers to work on a P.W.D. job in North
Queensland came a burly Italian. He spoke
English pretty well, but had evidently not
mastered some of our idioms, for with a
polite bow he proffered a signed ref. which
read: “Anyone requiring an honest, hard-
working pick-and-shoveller is strongly urged
to give Bearer a wide berth.” He seemed
THE ONLY WAY.
“Who advised you to buy a second-hand car?"
My doctor. Its the only way I can get my wife to take some walking exercise."
rather puzzled at the 11011-effectiveness of his
credential. I heard he afterwards managed
to dispose of it for a pound to a Chinese
half-caste.
™ *
Ivmb : When the Australian Univer-
sides’ Conference in Melbourne last week
discussed the question of conferring degrees
in forestry, somebody suggested that Bachelor
of Forestry would sound all right. “Not
when abbreviated to B.Fdrawled a
delegate.
* * * *
“Lex”: One of the latest phrases from the
Melbourne underworld to be loosed- m the
Criminal Court is a box of canaries.” It
is the synonym for a cash-register, and evi-
dently had its origin m the days when the
“peter” contained gold. A carrier used the
expression before Judge Woinarski. I can’t
help wondering what would have happened
if he had tried it on N.S.W. Judge Curlewis.
*•* * *
“Bad Australian”: Although it is unusual
to find Briton or Aussie eating raw ham
or bacon (B. 14/8/’29), it is a regular
practice among Italians and Spaniards, par-
ticularly in South America, where huge quan-
tities of raw sun-dried beef are consumed
as well. Throughout South America the
citizen who wants cooked ham
or bacon must say so, and the
say-so, if attended to, always
means a few cents extra on the
bill. I have eaten raw liam,
bacon and “charqui” scores of
times, and found it easier to tackle
than an underdone chop or beef-
steak.
* * *
“Sixenate” : The right of any-
one to ask his friends or even his
customers to have a drink with
him was recognised in some sort
when the Sydney Central Police
Court dismissed the charge
against a Circular Quay fish-shop
proprietor, who, the publican next
door having given away fish with
his beer, proceeded to give
away beer with his fish, to
the entire satisfaction of his
clientele. Yet the victory for a
Great Principle was only a par-
tial one ,- the magistrate regarded
the action as a trade reprisal
rather than a cloaked attempt to
sell liqtior without a license. It
is more than doubtful if the pre-
cedent will help any enterprising
restaurateur who, after regular
hours, makes a gift of a bottle
of beer with a bob meal for which
he charges 2s. 6d.; and the frill
shop which undertakes to refresh with cock-
tails. its lady customers who present sales
dockets to the value of 10s. 6d. is likely to find
itself in trouble—unless, of course, it can
prove that some pub next door is giving
away silk hose and lingerie with its drinks.
* * * *
“Bligli St.”: American cities excepted,
I believe that Sydney has more reasonably
tall buildings than any other big centre of
population. In height, however, the local
architecture is handicapped by the 150 ft.
legal limit—a restriction originally designed
more to forestall traffic jambs than to combat
the loss of light and air. An engineer assured
us that on the underlying sandstone Sydney
could safely tower up 40 storeys or so.
In the matter of foundations it has a big
advantage over Chicago, which is largely
built on lake mud.
JfC
“Weser”: One would imagine that the life
of a coalmine deputy—the chap who walks
through the deserted galleries at night, and
sees that they are safe for the morning
shift—would be a lonely and uneventful one.
Since the miners’ strike in N.S.W., however,
a disquieting factor has been introduced.
The withdrawal of the ponies and the men
has taken away stores of provender on
which many thousands of rats, who have
never known any life but that of the pit,
have subsisted. One deputy reported the
other day that when, he walked through the
mine at night he was followed by thousands
of “whimpering rats,” doubtless wondering
why their once good friend man had ceased
to provide food for them. It would be an
unpleasant experience above ground in day-
light. A thousand feet down in the earth with
no light in those black tunnels but the little
circle of the deputy’s lamp, it makes one
think of Bishop Hatto.
* * * *
“Te Pana”: Conan Doyle’s latest agitation
is for the official recognition and emplov-
ment of clairvoyants to help detectives in
the solving of baffling problems and ‘ the
running-down of elusive criminals. So far
as Australia is concerned there hasn't been
a mystery murder or a baffling disappearance
for years past but clairvoyants have shoved
in an oar, and mostly hampered the police
as a result of their impressions. The Long
Bay (Sydney) murder a few years ago
had at least three mediums on the honorary
job, and a very poor figure they cut. When
Kingsford Smith and his crew were missing
on the nor’-west coast of Australia a Sydney
paper solemnly published a clairvoyant’s
impression that the men had been lost at sea.
YES, HE PROBABLY WAS.
"Shot? Of course you were shot! Why, you even asked me for a mirror to see who
you were."
Hood and Moncrieff, who failed to reach
Maoriland in their Tasman flight, were made
the subject of scores of “visions,” “rapports”
and “messages” by alleged seers seeking a
little cheap publicity. Ask any police officer
his opinion of mediums in relation to the
solving of crimes.
* * * *
“Gropie”: While the bush-fires were
approaching Powelltown (Vic.) by way of
the hills, a bushman who happened to be in
town expressed his intention of returning
to his hut in the uplands to retrieve some
clothes and rations which he had left there.
Leaving his motor-bike at Powelltown, he
plodded up some stiff hills and found his
shack and goods had gone up in smoke. Rue-
fully he retraced his footsteps, to discover
that the fire had swept through the town,
taking his bike in its stride.
* * * *
“F.A.”: The presence of a military officer’s
charger in the cort&ge is a survival from our
pagan ancestry. In the dark old days, when
a warrior chief passed out he generally
took with him q few wives, slaves and a
certain amount of persona! property to make
the next life more congenial than it might
otherwise be. When the defunct potentate
was a horseman, his steed was invariably
added to the family holocaust. Even as late
as the middle of the eighteenth century in
Bavaria and other South German provinces
military leaders, when planted, were accom-
panied by their favorite mounts. In some
parts of Asia the custom survives in the
form of the burning of pictures of the
deceased’s property—a far more comfortable
and economical process—while in Europe
the charger has become a guest of honor.
* # * *
“Cadonga”: The slaves of the wheel are
not all in Monte Carlo.
While my room at the sea-
side hashery was being
kalsomined last summer
my landlady temporarily
promoted me to the “best
bedroom.” On the mantel-
piece were two flamboyant
vases, the size of Grecian
urns, decorated with
bunches of forget-me-nots.
The landlady commended
these ornaments to my
care with such solicitude
that I hastened to assure
her that her treasures
would be quite safe.
“Something very valuable,
I suppose?” I added.
“They are that,” she
acquiesced. “It took me
ten goes on the chocolate
wheel to get ’em.”
“Stellsby”: A recent cable mentioned that
the British Government had decided to
transfer four of its biggest battleships from
the Mediterranean to the Atlantic, owing
to. the congestion at Malta, where the
ships can barely find an anchorage. I know
Malta better than most, and the alleged
reason strikes me as a preposterous one.
During the war approximately half the
French Navy was moored in the Grand
Harbor for months on end. In addition,
there was a numerous and ever-changing
company of British men-o’-war (large and
small), hospital ships, transports, colliers,
mine-sweepers, despatch-vessels, etc., and an
occasional Japanese, Italian or U.S. boat,
not to mention, now and again, a homeless
Russian. There was plenty of room for all.
❖ ❖ * *
“Meteren”: We flopped down dead-beat
into an old German gunpit in Death Valley
at Pozieres, too much in need of sleep to
trouble much about' tucker. Cookers had
been brought up and were parked just out-
side our boudoir, so that hot food could be
sent up into the line at night. One of the
cooks, full of rum and generous sympathy for
his cobbers, who were holding up a Fritz
counter-attack a few hundred yards away
whilst he was, to use his own words, “only
the blanky cook,” disturbed our slumbers by
proclaiming in a foghorn voice his longing
to have a go at Fritz. Finally, a light-
sleeper from the gunpit bawled: “For
Gawd’s sake, get up and box-on with ’em so's
a man can get a snooze!” “My oath, I’ll go;
give us a gun,” was the hash-artist’s parting
shot, and we dropped into uninterrupPd
sleep. Before daylight the familiar voice
roused us again: “I’m set! I brought yer
gun back, an’ a man can go ’ome contented
now.” He was then a stretcher case, a shell
having smashed one of his legs during his
private strafe.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Melbourne viewed with in-
tense regret the destruction of the splendid
avenue of Moreton Bays which made the
Treasury Gardens so grateful to the eye,
and it got small satisfaction out of the
official assurance that the job gave work
to the unemployed, and that the giants were
suffering from heart disease, anyway.
The latter excuse is typical of Bumbledom.
In America there are firms which specialise
in tree surgery, and are continuously em-
ployed by private individuals and public
bodies renewing the lives of the oldest trees.
Imported palms and flower-beds are. to re-
place what was one of the finest features of
these gardens, and next summer there will
be another pool of shade the less.
* * # *
“Frigid”: For an expensive luxury I nomi-
nate a dish in which a rich Chinaman in
Cairns used to indulge once a year. It was
a paste of lichee buds and ginger jelly, brown-
ish in color. At the base of the kernel of
the nut is a small cone-shaped formation
usually surmounted by two very small leaves.
The nuts are roasted, and these minute
growths then extracted. They are so small
that many thousands are necessary to fill
a small teacup. When sufficient are collected
they are put into a mortar and brazed into
a fine flour, which is mixed with ginger jelly
and rubbed down to a smooth paste. John
didn’t mind paying £2 an ounce for the mess
once a year.
* * * *
“Der Jong”: As one who saw a lot of the
South African War between the relief of
Kimberley and Vereeniging I am inclined to
doubt the assertion (B. 21/B'/’29) that the
Boer gunners registered most of their hits
by indirect fire —that is, 1.F., as it was under-
stood in the Great War. At the two big
sieges of Kimberley and Ladysmith, fire was
direct from high ground, and in the Colenso
battles the same may be said, though occa-
sionally a little “blind stabbing,” as pros-
pectors would say, was indulged in. The
Boers had no apparatus for observing. Bri-
tain used observation balloons—l saw one
up on the morning of Osfontein between
Bloemfontein and Paardeberg—but they
never seem to have been successful in that
campaign.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: An island missionary who is
just now supervising the erection of a big
concrete church was waited on the other day
by a couple of his voluntary builders. They
fiddled with their hats for awhile, and then
asked: “Please, how much them picture
window cost, all same like them window
stop along church in Thursday Island?” “Oh,
memorial windows.” said the padre, ami
named a figure. “But who is it,” he went
on, “that you want to get a memorial for?"
“Well, we been yarn, and we think very good
thing we try and get one now for you, with
your face in it, so by and bye when some
people come to look that church we can
show them you photo stop along that window.”
And the deputation seemed quite dejected
when their pastor intimated that he had
no immediate intention of qualifying as a
subject for a memorial.
* * * *
“Camelhump”: “Query’s” statement (B.
14/8/’29) that he never saw another serious
attempt to loop a Camel after the one men-
tioned at Minchinhampton gives me the
hump. Far from going to 7000 ft. to loop I
have seen them looped at a few hundred,
coming out of it almost on the ground. Per
haps “Query” will tell me -what machine,
other than perhaps a Fokker, could at tin-
close of the war do a tighter loop than a
Camel? And will he say how the 4th A.F.P.
got their Pluns if their Camels couldn’t loop?
HIS REVENGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Petitioner: ‘I saw the co-respondent kiss my wife
in a flat. Then the light went out.’
“Counsel: ‘What did you do then?’
“Petitioner: ‘I punctured his motor-cycle with a
skewer.’ ” —Divorce case.
I li' could not drink the other fellow’s wallop
-Vs the wronged husband in the taproom
did,
Apprised his wife was dallying (the trollop!)
With a co-tosspot for the ieriium quid.
He gave Lothario a nastier dollop
Though, in reprisal, when he wrecked his
grid;
Taught him the sort of lesson, you may bet,
The culprit will not readily forget.
Rubbing his eyes, he saw his cherished
missis
Fast in an interloper’s amorous grip,
Ilis arms around her and his burning kisses
Hot on receptive cheek and yielding lip!
’Twould stir to action, such a scene as this is,
A pacifist and give a saint the pip.
A deadly sin he featured, at a look;
And straight a deadlier revenge he took.
There might have been a debauchee the
fewer,
His frame was glowing with such righteous
ire,
Had he not hit upon a subtler, newer
More condign method of reprisal dire.
No sword or gun he drew, but just a skewer
And stabbed the vile seducer’s cycle tyre,
And doubtless hissed through close-clenched
teeth “You cow,
You’ve broke my home up—but we’re even
now!”
He might incontinently have arisen
In surging passion and resentment keen,
And punched the villain’s snout or slit his
wizen,
Or put a bullet-hole his ribs between,
Without incurring real risk of prison
He spared the man and crippled the
machine!
He might have blown Lothario up; no doubt,
He reckoned it enough to blow him out!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Uramao”: The light-hearted manner
assumed by Hori under pecuniary embarrass-
ments is the despair of pakelia tradesmen.
At a meeting of creditors of a corpulent
Maori bankrupt the delinquent smiled
benignantly on the circle of what he evi-
dently considered sordid money-grinders, and
intimated that he could not pay even a
farthing in the pound. One creditor, with
the hope that some affluent countryman
might throw Hori a lifeline, asked: “Have
you any expectations?” “Too right I have.”
was the prompt reply. Picking up his ears
the creditor asked: “And what are they ?”
“Anot’r in te family—t’at’ll make te 10,”
and Hori chuckled delightedly at the dis-
gusted faces of the shopkeepers.
* * * *■
“Fourwalls”: There seems a tendency to
make Melbourne’s famous Botanical Gardens
a monument to William 11. Guilfoyle (B.
14/8/’29). “Strict Veg.” is not the first to
ignore the pioneering work of Baron von
Mueller, perhaps the greatest botanist this
country has known. He was in far-northern
Queensland with Gregory’s expedition in
1556, and discovered something like 500 new
species of plants. On his return to Mel-
bourne he was appointed director (the first
absolute director) of the Botanic Gardens.
His term was not long, but he introduced many
kinds of plants into what was previously
little more than a park of waste land. Guil-
foyle, becoming director in 1873, found a
garden to work on, and he cei’tainly improved
it. But this beautiful reserve is not a
monument to any one man ; it is
worth mention that Catani, a noted civil
engineer, designed the environ avenues, which
are as grand as any part of the main
gardens.
% * $
“Ida D.”: The paragraph about the 15
men of different nationalities in an Innis-
fail (Q.) road gang to whom a deaf-and-
dumb foreman issued orders in the sign
language (B. 14/8/’29) reminds me. In
Patagonia I once dined with a Russian
and a German (military men of rank, who
were earning a living as fur-trappers) ; a
Chilian, a Belgian, an Irishman, an Italian
and his wife, an elderly Texan and an
Englishman. The host • was an Argentine
native, and though nearly all spoke good
English we conversed in Spanish, accord-
ing to the etiquette of the country. In Java
last year I had a post at a big sanatorium
where the staff was divided into grades, each
playing tennis on different days. In the
WAYS AND MEANS.
“I dont like her ways, but she has most
attractive means.”
grade to which I was assigned were two
Dutch doctors, a Swede, a German, an Aus-
trian, two Chinese of high caste, a Sumatran
doctor, a Javanese doctor, a Menadonese
nurse, a Frenchman and an Australian. In
compliment to me, they all spoke English.
After a considerable experience in teaching
English to foreigners. I believe that the
Britisher who has the “language" ear, so
noticeable among other European nations, is
SOMETHING TO BE THANKFUL FOR.
“Pam, dear, you don’t dress so well since you’ve been spotting."
“No, that’s true But you should see the lovely fur on my tongue.”
a rare exception. Many of the Dutch in
Java speak French, English and German
and know several of the native languages as
well; it is seldom an Englishman gets farther
than Malay.
$ H* # *
“C.Q.”: Reports, counter-reports and
rumors of all sorts concerning the security
of the Eildon weir have reduced many people
living in the Goulburn River valley (Vic.)
to a sad state of nerves,, and the tension
neared snapping-point the other morning
when the 128 alarm-bells installed in the
various homes all started ringing at once.
The local exchange was promptly over-
whelmed with ’phone calls from anxious
mothers asking when the expected deluge
was due. Engineers at the weir reported
everything 0.K., but that left the warning
signal a mystery. Subsequent inquiry
revealed that workmen engaged on the
alarm-bell line had inadvertently caused a
short-circuit. The valley heaved a sigh of
relief and went back to work.
* * * *
“Abdul O’Grady”: I was with the first
mounted troops to reach Richon-le-Zion —a
pleasant little Jewish vineyard settlement
in Southern Palestine. It was promptly out
of bounds, and the order was as promptly dis-
regarded by the troops, who had just emerged
from 18 months of wandering in Sinai. We
had thirsts, but no money. As the Jews
hadn’t yet seen our currency, we peeled off
about 50 Fray Bentos labels, sneaked into the
village at the back, and traded them for
wine and oranges. When the Jews presented
the paper at our exchange department at
h.q. three days later and learned its worth-
lessness, their wailing would have made any-
one think that all the jackals in Palestine
had gathered .for an offensive.
* * * *
“Exdig” : The A.I.F. Canteens Fund, which
bore eloquent witness to the capacity of the
Digger for tinned fruit and fish, cigarettes
and beer, is almost exhausted ; there remains
less than £4OO of a sum which, when the
war terminated and accounts were squared
off with the British authorities, amounted
to £745,000. However, another £2560 has
been scraped up recently, being the massed
amounts of individual regimental funds which
remained unexpended at the end of the war.
Close on three-quarters of a million has been
handed out in grants to seriously-incapa-
citated ex-Diggers in need of assistance, and
to their dependants and the widows and
dependants of dead soldiers. One grant at
least helped a dead Digger’s son to become
a Rhodes Scholar.
* * * *
“Dolmetescher”: When Lowell Thomas
credits Count von Luckner with having
stolen a horse at Cape Leeuwin lighthouse
and ridden it to Port Augusta (B. 14/8/’29),
it is pretty clear he wasn’t referring to the
South Aus. seaport, 2000 miles distant. He
meant the little port of Augusta in West-
tralia, which is only 30 miles away. This
sometimes appears as “Port Augusta” on
old maps, though the prefix has long since
dropped.
$ $ $ $
“Schnorrer”: There can be added to the.
list of variegated and far-flung Hebrews the
negro Jews of America; in Harlem, New
York, they constitute a separate community,
with a big synagogue of their own. There
is considerable mystery about their origin.
One theory is that their progenitors were
captives made by the slave traders from
Jewish settlements that had pushed well
down into Africa after the Dispersal. An-
other is that they are of Abyssinian extrac-
tion. A legend still persists that the Queen of
Sheba paid her visit to Solomon after having
determined that the wisest man in the world
should be the father of her son ; when he grew
up, Menelik was sent to see his father, who
commissioned a band of well-born young
Israelites to return with the youth and make
the Land of Sheba a Jewish State. The
prospective colonists are further alleged to
have stolen the Ark of the Covenant before
heading for Africa, and to have got safely
away with it.
“Petard”: “Centurion” (B- 21/8/29) m
correcting his corrector, who pointed out that
the right to march through London with fixed
bayonets was not limited to the Guards and
the Royal Fusiliers, falls into yet more
errors. H'e says that there have been only
two regular battalions of each regiment ot
the Household Brigade since the ’seventies,
whereas both Grenadiers and Coldstreams
have had three battalions for the last dO
years. The usual practice is for two bat-
talions to be stationed in London and the
third at some camp, such as Aldershot, or
even as far away as Gibraltar. By “Royal
Artillery Company” he presumably means
the “Honorable Artillery Company,” an in-
teresting relic of the London train-bands and
now a corps d'clite. Finally, the Grenadiers
not only were but are the First Foot Guards,
that being their alternative title under
King’s Regs., Appendix XI.
# * * *
“Sir Spen” : Our messenger boy had been
away for a couple of days, and on his return
to the office ten-
dered the usual
statement, setting
forth the cause of
his absence thus:
“During this period
I was suffering
from swollen
glance.” The boss,
with an undercur-
rent of good humor
seeping through his
stony stare, sug-
gested that this
might have been
caused through the
boy’s liberality with
the “glad eye,” but
the youngster re-
assured him. “Oh,
no, sir. it wasn’t
that. It was just
that I started surfin’ before the weather
was quite warm enough, an’ I gotta a chill
in me neck.”
* * * *
“Chev.”: It was an optimistic railways
management which put on a special train
to convey barrackers from Warracknabeal
(Vic.) to Dimboola for the annual football
match. The train covered the. 75 miles with-
out a solitary passenger. The distance by
road is under 30.
* * * *
“Macquarie”: Erosion is not the only
foreshore problem on Australian coasts (B.
7/8/’29). Many miles of country along the
Speck’s west coast are being converted into
a sandy waste by the relentless drift from
the Ninety-mile Beach, between the Henty
River and Macquarie Heads. This strip is
in places three miles wide, and is backed by
great sandhills which slowly move further
inland. Tall gum-trees, she-oak and manuka
all disappear under the ever-advancing grit
Marram grass has so far proved an ineffec-
tive check.
* * * *
“Nosni”: The Narrabri (N.S.W.) hospi-
tal isn’t the only one that needn’t worry
about the cost of fuel (B. 24/7/’29). Some
20 years ago a free donation of firewood was
suggested for the St. Arnaud (Vic.) District
Hospital, and the idea was taken up whole-
heartedly. On a chosen Wednesday morning
in September cutters, carters and, latterly,
business men and their employees gather and
the axes begin to ring. One hand of work-
ers fells the trees, another cuts them into
suitable lengths, a third loads motor-lorries
and waggons. Meals and drinks are pro-
vided at the scene of operations by lady
supporters of the hospital and the nursing
and domestic staffs. It’s a poor day when
the effort docs not result in at least 400
tons of wood being delivered. The whole
job costs the hospital nothing.
* * * *
“C. Coral” : A big patch of pearlshell was
located in the Gulf waters close to Thursday
Island the other day,, and the diving boats
are working it double tides. “Like a long
wall of shell under the sea,” was one diver’s
description. There is layer upon layer, the
result of years of accumulation, and although
the top layers arc inferior the quality im-
proves lower down. But the water is deeper
than in most places adjacent, and a number
of Japs have been stricken with diver's
paralysis, the remedy for which is to suspend
the sufferer in diving-dress below water for
varying periods, gradually bringing him to
the top again. The Japs themselves prefer
the hot-water pack treatment, but most doc-
tors doubt its efficacy. It is alleged that
where divers are dispensing with the dress
and using only corselet and helmet (in
which they go down a couple of dozen
fathoms or more) there have been no cases
of paralysis. Another advantage claimed is
that in the event of danger the unencum-
bered diver can rise to the surface more
rapidly. No weights are worn—merely a
flannel suit; and sharks seem not to have
attacked any of these “helmet-divers” so far.
* * * #
“P.M.”: Even the Diggers have marched
through [London with fixed bayonets (B.
7/8/’29). The privilege was officially
granted them on the occasion of the Anzac
Day march in 1919.
* * * *
“Sticky Beak” : The tradition that there is
a lost white race somewhere in America (B.
14/8/’29) is centuries old and crops up in
many forms. There is the well-known story
of the Welsh Prince Madoc, who sailed away
with 13 ships in the twelfth century to seels
for a new land and never returned. The
Welsh pioneers in Massachusetts went t<;
some pains to try and trace the “Madoc
Indians” —a white tribe of Indians who were
said to speak Welsh- —but without success. The
Spanish conquest of Mexico was facilitated
by the fact that the people expected a com-
pany of white men to arrive. They had a
legend of one Quetzleoatzl, a white man who
had come over the sea and lived with them
some years, and left with the forecast that his
countrymen would arrive at some future date.
Then there is the story of the Irish St.
Brendon, who sailed away with his com-
panions to the west; the party, unlike
Jladoc’s, returned, or some of them did. It
is an established fact, of course, that the
Vikings had settlements in N. America;
Greenland actually contributed 100 walrus
skins to the expense of the First Crusade. But
what became of these settlers has never been
disclosed.
* $ * *
“Coot” : An up-to-date parson of a church
on the route of a Melbourne tramway line
which is being electrified has placarded his
sanctuary with a large notice: “The trams
are being converted. Are you?”
* * * *
“Keg”: Further to paragraphs about pri-
vates who rose to commissioned rank at one
bound, and n.c.o.’s who remained such for
six or seven years, let me present my own
case. I was a quartermaster-sergeant in
1914 and returned a private in 1918, yet no
misdemeanor was ever charged against me.
I simply had the choice of remaining with
the horses and retaining my stripes or
going to Gallipoli as a trooper. My officer
never forgave me for electing to do the
latter* and I was not offered stripes again
in my regiment. On joining a new unit
SO RIDICULOUS OF HER.
“I felt a drop of rain.”
“I didn’t.”
“How could you? It fell, on me.”
I was so fed up with stripe methods that
I refused them when offered, and I never
had another chance of refusing.
* * * *
“Shep.” : Though burning paybooks or con-
veniently losing them didn’t wipe out red-
ink debits (B. 31/7/’29) in the early days,
it often enabled a Digger to get cash in
London when he wanted it. The Pay Staff
took over a colossal job at short notice, and
it was a couple of years before Horseferry-
road was in a position to bowl out convales-
cents from Gallipoli and Egypt who had
destroyed or mislaid paybooks, especially
those with red-ink embellishments. On fur-
lough they applied for a new book, stating
they hadn’t drawn a bean since they were
knocked, and in most cases after a brief
delay drew their cash right up to date. Natu-
rally the double dealings eventually came to
light, but there were no punishments. Autho-
rity contented itself with making a solid dent
adjustment in the delinquent’s paybook. and
thereafter he soldiered with a dead horse
to work off. But in most cases he was hack
with his unit by this time, where hard casli
wasn’t such a necessity as in Piccadilly and
the Strand.
TWO TRAGEDIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It seems to me,” said Myall Mick, that
all that is ain’t right.
An’ when I tell you what I mean, you 11 see
it in my light. .
I’m not a croaker, mate, you know it s only
fools do that;
But listen, an’ you’ll quickly see just what
I’m cornin’ at.
“I had two mates who did their heads upon
the self-same Jane,
Though both o’ them knew from the jump
that one must try in vain.
An’ in the end she took old Bob an left Alt
high an’ dry,
An’ down the easy path he went as fast as
he could fly.
“I lost old Bob for two long years after he’d
done the trick,
An’ then I struck him on the track, whipped,
down-an’-out an’ sick.
His missus ruined him an’ run, an’ then he
took to grog .
An’ drifted where the drifters go, a-livin
like a dog.
“An’ so it seems,” said Myall Mick, “as
far as I can see,
There’s somethin’ wrong in this hard world,
or else how can it be
That what Alf didn’t pet queered him an'
sent him out to rot,
While Bob, who beat him for the gal, found
hell in what he got?"
VICTORIA.
P.T.F.


5%
M
The Australian Provincial Assurance Association Limited
ESTABLISHED 1912
HEAD OFFICE: 77 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Messrs. EDMUND S. W. PAUL (Chairman), Senator J. D. MILLEN (Deputy Chairman), ALEX. KING, Dr. C. A. THELANDER, Hon. J. A. BOYD,
Total Assets exceed . £2,500,000.
BRANCHES: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.
SOME REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD INSURE WITH THE A.P.A.:—
(1) Because of Annual Bonuses to Policy-holders.
(2) In the event of total disablement for life all future premiums will be paid by
the Association and uo deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(3) Hospital Benefits are given with every Life Policy applicable to public and
private hospitals, varying in amount according to the sur assured and no
deduction made from policy or bonuses.
(4) In the event of loss of eye or limb through accident, a quarter of the sum assured will be paid forthwith and the premium reduced proportionately.
(5) PERSONAL ACCIDENT and Combined Benefit Policies provide for almost every contingency.
NO EXTRA PREMIUM IS CHARGED FOR SPECIAL BENEFITS UNDER LIFE POLICIES
PROBATE, CHILDREN’S EDUCATION AND FINANCE POLICIES SPECIALISED.
Applications for Agencies invited from men c' integrity.
GEO. BRUCE SMITH, General Manager
H. E. BIDEN, Secretary.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Five-o’clock Girl”
Royali . “The Squeaker”
Criterion (com. Saturday) . “Lombardi, Ltd.”
1 alack (com. Saturday) . . “The Kentucky Singers”
IVOLI Vaudeville
tS ' rATB Movies and Talkies
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
His Majesty's “Show Boat”
® OYAI ' “Journey’s End”
King’s (com. Saturday) “Whoopee”
Tivoli Vaudeville
Hovt's Movies and Talkies
State Movies and Talkies
“The Squeaker,” presented by the Leon
Gordon company at Sydney Royal on Satur-
day night, bears comparison with any other
Edgar Wallace play ever written. The
“Squeaker” is London’s leading “fence,”
though it takes more than that to make him
contemptible enough to be villain for a
modern mystery play. The extra demerit
is what lias earned him his sobriquet—a
nasty habit of receiving the proceeds of jewel
and other thefts and, when he has done with
his thieves, “squeaking” on them indirectly
to the police.
There is a dual “mystery” in the piece—
who is the “Squeaker” and who is the great
Scotland Yard man spoken of in terms ol
awe among the underworldlings? The play
is remarkable in construction; in that it is
a complete inset. The first scene is the sub-
editor’s room in the Post-Courier newspaper
office, with the sub-editor (B. N. Lewin)
frantically troubling the telephone in trying
to trace police-roundsman ’Angus Collie
(Frank Bradley), out nosing into the Squeaker
case. Collie enters quite leisurely and is
dictating his story to another reporter when
a black-out occurs in the play’s mechanics.
Collie is then discovered in the business office
of F'rank Sutton (Mayne Lynton) drawl-
ingly convincing Sutton’s snappy typist,
Millie Trent (Eileen Sparks), that he more
or less would like to see the boss.
Enters Captain - Leslie (Leon Gordon),
an ex-army officer given a post in
the “business” on the strength of a
criminal record. Collie . makes an in-
quiry or two and departs, and Leslie
angrily attacks the typist on the score of
the business being mere camouflage for some-
thing more sinister that he has been kept
out of. When Sutton enters Leslie asserts
SADIE BEDFORD, touring Maoriland with the bright Bunce-
Nugent company.
that he has been given his job only so that
there will be a man present with a criminal
record to hand to the police if anything goes
wrong. Another sore point between them is
the pending marriage of Sutton to Beryl
Stedman (Mary MacGregor), ward of Lewis
Friedman (Gaston Mervale). Leslie goes so
far as to say that if Sutton marries her he
“will get him,” or words to that effect. The
Tartar typist, who is closely interested in
the “business,” bitterly hates Leslie, whom,
intuitively, she fears, and she has him
arrested as a diamond thief. Sutton then
marries his “fiancee” at a registry office,
though the typist is his wife already—the
marriage business is one of his stunts, his
wife conniving in it because he has been con-
tent merely to gather the coin attached to
each girl and flee. This girl, however, is
extra attractive, so Sutton plans to give his
wife a sleeping draught at the Leopard, a
night club run by Bill Anerley (George
Blunt), and leave for Canada with his bigam-
ous bride. After he gets his room at the
club, Collie also strays in and takes a room,
and a bit later Leslie, out on bail, appears,
and is recognised by the club-keeper as a
shell-hole benefactor. Leslie takes a room
next to Sutton’s, and shortly after Sutton
is shot dead. The club is cleared, and the police
are sent for. Then the scene shifts back to the
newspaper office, where Collie completes his
story, telling who the Squeaker was and who
was the great detective, though both solu-
tions seem obvious from half-way through
the-first act. Wallace, however, mak s an
uncommonly neat mystery of the shooting.
The play, despite the fact that it is merely
a surface-skimmer, is a rattling good enter-
tainer, chiefly so because of an abundance
of humor, the smartness of the dialogue gener-
ally and the faithful study of characters, in
the last of which Mr. Wallace is strongly
aided and abetted by Frank Bradley, Eileen
Sparks, Leon Gordon and George Blunt.
Bradley’s Collie is the only living daily-
newspaper man this. Showman has ever seen
on the stage. He is not representative by
any means, but he assuredly belongs. A
leisurely Scot up in the fifties, fond of a
drink (especially if free), only semi-literate,
gurgling with native wit, apparently a dud
and at the same time extraordinarily shrewd,
he will be found in newspaper offices all over
the globe, and he will be laughed at and
respected. Bradley’s study of him is no-
thing less than brilliant. From his good-
natured smile to his lazy shuffle he lives
Collie in a manner that exalts the play from
its apparent commonplace. Miss Sparks also
gives a sterling performance, especially when
suggesting savage emotion with the lid forced
hard down on it. When the lid is off she
is a trifle too strident, though her fine earlier
work makes that easy enough to forgive.
George Blunt is quite good as the club-
keeper, and with Bradley gives the play
plenty of broad humor. For consistent act-
ing there is little better in the show than
Leon Gordon’s Captain Leslie. The others,
even the best of them, can be detected letting
up now- and then—Gordon remains in char-
acter throughout. His reunion at the club
w-ith his old shell-hole friend is the most
moving note in the
play. He has done
nothing nearly so
good outside of
“White Cargo.”
Gaston Mervale is
responsible for a
sincere, rather Shy-
loekish, Jew given
to striking stock
attitudes, and
Lewin’s is a good
study of a sub-
editor.
The best show
the present Gordon
season has yielded.
* *
Efrem Kurtz,
baton-waver, made
a spectacular de-
parture from Syd-
new last week. His
r u s h from the
Town Hall into a
speedboat and so
on to the Niagara,
half-way down the
Harbor, would have
done justice to a
Douglas Fairbanks.
Before the rush
started the willowy
conductor had
made a fair enough
spectacle of the
business of depar-
ture. The pro-
gramme of the
extra matinee con-
cert he was con-
ducting ended at a
quarter to four.
The boat was due
to leave at four
o’clock. Mr. Ivurtz,
in a gesture remi-
niscent of the Eng-
lish admiral who
habitually ate
his rum glasses, heroically cried, “There
are still a few minutes before the Niagara
leaves, and we shall repeat the ‘ltienzi’ Over-
ture.” Loud and prolonged applause. .. .
Virtuosity lias fallen upon bitter days. Why,
even at the Tivoli, the virtuosi who trouble
the orchestral instruments have nowadays
to stand erect in turn and blow or scrape
or wallop with the spotlight upon them.
Virtuosity, in fact, is 90 per cent, showman-
ship in these blatant times.
The matinee, which occurred on Thursday,
was the third Kurtz concert, and the princi-
pal offering by the Conservatorium Orchestra,
which he conducted, was Tscliaikowsky’s
“Pathetic” Symphony. That also was the
main item at the second concert on Tuesday
night, when all those trying to get in by
pushing x>r by biting the doorkeepers
could not be accommodated.
Melbourne music-lovers were well catered
for on Saturday night—the Symphony
Orchestra at the Town Hall, and Spivakov-
sky at the Auditorium. The orchestral con-
cert led off with Schumann’s Symphony No.
2. Schumann succeeded in putting more
vitality into this piece than he got into most
of his work, and
the orchestra treat-
ed him kindly on
the whole. The
scherzo lacked dash
and vigor, but the
third and fourth
movements were
admirably don e.
The Ilaydn con-
certo for ’cello and
orchestra served to
introduce Russian
soloist Sisserman.
The ’cello has its
limitations, but it
also has its pecu-
liar beauties, and
the adagio particu-
larly was infused
with charm. The
most interesting
event of the even-
ing was Howard
Carr’s conducting
of his own piece,
“T hr e e Heroes,”
inspired by the
deeds of O’Leary,
V,C., Captain
Oates, the Antarc-
tic explorer, and
Warneford, who
single-handed blew
up a Zeppelin, de-
scended in hostile
territory and event-
ually restarted his
engine and re-
turned.
The work has
much ingenious
composition in it,
but merely giving
the instrumental
equiva le n t s of
whizzbangs pi p -
squeaks and trench-
mortars going off,
the hum of aero-
plane propellers and the bang of a flying
sausage exploding in mid-air does not neces-
sarily create an atmosphere of exalted terror
or visions of human heroism facing unutter-
able odds. In fact, the effect was exactly
the reverse. It was like a small boy, with
picture-book ideas on the subject, playing
at soldiers on the parlor floor. The deeper
emotions, which a play like “Journey’s End”
keeps constantly engaged, remained relatively
untouched, and all one got out of Mr. Carr’s
opus was a repetition of the well-known fact
that one feature of war is that it is a hellofa-
noise. In any case, a Y.C. who survives
the act which earns him his decoration is,
dramatically speaking, an anti-climax. One
cannot help speculating as to what happened
to him afterwards. Didn’t his country for-
get him? Probably—and now he is perhaps a
spruiker at a suburban cinema or a soldier-
settler who can’t make a do of it on the
land. You can never make a satisfying piece
of music out of a story like that.
Curiously enough, Spivakovsky was en-
gaged on. a work with an almost identical
intention—Beethoven’s Sonata in E flat,
opus 81. Beethoven’s aim was to reflect
the happenings accompanying the entry of
Napoleon’s army into Vienna, the blowing
up of portion of the city (the explosion
nearly wrecked the composer’s house), the
fleeing of the Archduke Rudolph, one of
Beethoven’s pupils, the uncertainty of his
absence and the delight at his return. But
Beethoven stated his subject purely in terms
of the emotions. There are no rumblings of
wheels or banging of big guns or explosions
in which the whole piano keyboard is en-
gaged. The result is an immortal piece of
music which sounds as fresh and young to-
day as the Archduke Rudolph was 120 years
ago. The foregoing remarks are not made in
order to draw comparisons between Howard
Carr and Beethoven, but to illustrate a popu-
lar tendency of modern composers who imi-
tate taxi horns and factory whistles under
the fond delusion that they are giving music
a reality it didn’t have before. The most
effective part of the Carr piece was the
middle portion, suffused with a wistfulness
and melancholy suggestive of the feelings of
men imprisoned in the indifferent immensity of
Antarctic ice.
Spivakovsky is the same muscular pianist
he was seven years ago, but with a maturer
technique. .
A concert of mechanised music at Mel-
bourne Auditorium the other night had all
the atmosphere of a mystery play. The
stage was set with empty chairs, and a
tenantless stool stood in front ot a piano
which broke out into a Hungarian Rhapsody
by Liszt. It contained so much of the human
touch that one wondered if Wells’s Invisible
Man had not tui'ned up in the shape of an
invisible virtuoso. The event of the evening
was the playing of the entire opera “Aida"
on the Columbia-Kolster viva-tonal electric
reproducing phonograph, to give it its full
name. Among the voices was that of Arangi-
Lombardi, heard in Melbourne during the
last Williamson gropera season. Obliged to
fill an extremely large hall the instrument
NATALIE MOYA, with “Lombardi, Limited,” beginning at
Sydney Criterion on Saturday.
was not without an occasional suspicion of
distortion, but the recording of Verdi’s great
work was a notable achievement. Among
other operas which will shortly be available
to gramophone enthusiasts are the complete
recording of “Carmen,” “Tristan,” “Caval-
leria” and “Pagliacci.”
* ¥ *
Stan Foley’s revue co., now in occupation
of the Bijou, Melbourne, is no better and
no worse than a dozen or so others this
paper has surveyed at the Bourke-street
theatre. The singing of the Big Four
is a fairish attraction. At the Tivoli Jack
Edge, Joe Marks and their accomplices con-
tinue to present the Follies of 1929 to satis-
factory houses.
* * *
At Sydney Tiv. at the moment may be
witnessed the spectacle of a Scotchman who
violates all the precedents of his country.
He dances on sandpaper. He and a part-
ner, calling themselves the Dancing Ban-
burys, make a neat songandance turn,
especially as to the dance part of it. Boole
and his cobber, Green, jun., still occupy
most of the hoarding outside the theatre,
and deserve their space. Theirs is a ven-
triloquial turn which is actually funny, and.
what is more remarkable, free from strain.
* * *
“Step This Way” is the latest frivolity
by Jim Gerald’s comedians at Sydney
Fullers’; and the . usual throng of Gerald
addicts accept the title as a personal invita-
tion. The show is bright and lively, with
dressing and dancing conspicuously good.
In the revue action ranges from N’Yawk to
Spain, and James is a shopwalker calculated
to reduce the most affluent business to beg-
gary in a week. Joan Graham’s dancing is
good, and Letty Craydon and Linda Foy
sing to the satisfaction of patrons.
* * *
Sydney State’s best offerings this week
are fine orchestral items by a large
and carefully-controlled band of players, and
a group of presentations in Spanish atmo-
sphere by a first-rate ballet. In many
respects there is a suggestion of thoroughness
about the State that contrasts remarkably
with the nonchalant conduct of some of the
other houses, and this is very noticeable
in the completeness of the weekly change.
The ballets are always new and original, and
far above the mere line of leg-lifters cus-
tomarily palmed off. Good lighting, with
plenty of color, helps them. It is a curiously
mixed sort of entertainment, but it is a very
particular taste that doesn’t find something
satisfying in it.


.
.
," X- y r A - i
*~mJQ
f .s' : '
' *"W
SI
'
i#c>ys.
• &
■
. ; i | l
UK
■
m - ■ J
fj
■ : " •■ " . :
S Smmmm£i l
■■ ■■ ' B ■
a 1
! «S«i§
A .
w
I
l¥«
- . ' : : . •
L. : , ■
i’,
|T
I
■
na I'
.
lill
■1
1
m 1
m
I
mm
:
Hi
:■
A
wS***#
y
*
FULL FA/HI O'NED HOSIERY 5Y
M Wl
>JJusb"alian
Crmlions
4/ Wjk
au Jr </*•#' Jr %
31ft


R°NE°
BUSINESS
EFFICIENCY
METHODS.
British Manufacture:
STEEL CABINETS.
FILING SYSTEMS.
VISIBLE CARD
RECORDS.
RONEOTYPE
DUPLICATORS.
ADDRESSING
MACHINES.
ON EXHIBITION AT
21 HUNTER ST.,
SYDNEY.
'
04 MARKET STREET, MELBOURNE.
48 GREEK STREET, BRISBANE.
GAWLER PLACE, ADELAIDE.
107 MURRAY STREET, PERTH.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety f-'use
Detonators
Cartridges
“LET’S CHOOSE EXECUTORS AND TALK OF WILLS”
HAVE YOU CHOSEN YOUR EXECUTOR?
If you have appointed a friend, have you considered that he may die soon after you, and your
estate may pass into the control of someone whom you would never have trusted? That he may
maladminister the funds? Or your Estate may suffer losses through his neglect or inexperience?
THESE RISKS CAN BE OVERCOME BY APPOINTING AS YOUR EXECUTOR
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
OF 33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
which offers undoubted Security, combined with Expert Administration.
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS NOW UNDER THE COMPANY’S CONTROL EXCEED £36,350,000.
Managing Director: R. COPEAND LETHBRIDGE,
Manager: 11. V. DOUGLASS.
Write for Booklet.
I
1
m
m
»*• .
E
sel in touch with
Juezn's Walk. - Mclboii
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1919.. 104,149 10 p.c. = 72,000 32,149 544,931
Premiums on new shares, £27,280.. 572,211
1920.. 143,975 124 p.c. = 101,790 (
Provident Fund, £lO,OOO f
1921.. 104,561 10 p.c. = 87,720 ) Sil .....
Provident Fund, £lO,OOO ) b,S4i
1922.. 123,772 10 p.c. = 87,720 ) 9fi 0 , 9 637 989
Provident Fund, £lO,OOO ) -<>,052 b.i/,^89
Internal reserves disclosed, £109,650.. 746,939
1923.. 161,006 124 p.c. = 109,650 ) op. oka rcqoQt
Provident Fund, £15,000 j 783,295
Reserves capitalised, £109,650 . . 673,645
Premiums on new shares, £11,440 .. 685,085
1924.. 206,994 10 p.c. = 109,342 ) Q9 R( - 9 777707
Provident Fund, £5OOO ) 92,b52
Premiums on new shares, £16,000.. 793,737
1925.. 205,151 10 p.c. = 133,200 71,951 865,688
1926.. 214,058 10 „ „ 161,040 53,018 918,706
1927.. 223,123 10 „ „ 175,680 47,443 966,149
Premiums on new shares, £98,110.. 1,064,259
1928.. 252,346 10 p.c. = 204,995 47,351 1,111,610
Premiums on new shares, £115,044.. 1,226,654
1929.. 227,106 10 p.c. = 208,102 19,004 1,245,658
The sharp drop of £25,240 in last year’s
declared net earnings reflects conditions in
S. Aus., mainly in the pastoral areas. The
rainfall was deficient over all but the south-
east corner of the State. In the north and
north-east and the West Darling, where the
co. is very solidly entrenched, old hands
declare conditions to be the worst since the
beginning of this century. To save the live-
stock in some areas hand-feeding has had to
be presorted to. Moreover, market develop-
ments were the reverse of the previous sea-
sons. For the Dec. half of 1928 wool prices
were fairly firm, but there was a pronounced
easing in values during the next six months.
For the 12 months to June 30 the average
per bale auctioned in Adelaide (£lB 165.)
was £3 short of the previous year’s average;
also, the number of bales that passed under
the hammer (227,420) was 13,726 less than
the 1927-28 figures. Hence the State’s wool
cheque (£4,289,817) was £968,797 lighter.
In Westralia seasonal conditions were satis-
factory and the clip heavier, but any advant-
age in that direction was more than offset by
a shrinkage of over £5 in the average price
per bale (£2O 10s.) there. Also easier
markets for hides, skins and merchandise, and
a slackening in shipments of zinc concen-
trates overseas—in this latter connection the
co. acts as agent for the British Govern-
ment—affected earnings.
So, despite a growth of £372,861 in
advances, and a contraction of £155,033 in
deposits, the management wrote gross profit
£28,876 less than the previous year’s. That,
and other things, are visible in this next
comparison
Paid Gross
Capital. Profits. Expenses.
1910 .. £300,000 £144,260 £84,738
1915 .. 400,000 172,386 102,438
1920 . . 877,200* 462,451 318,476
1924 . . 1,200,000 f 585,196 378,202
1925 . . 1,464,000 638,642 433,490
1926 . . 1,756,800 652,260 438,202
1927 . . 1,756,800 674,127 451,003
1928 . . 2,050,320 733,162 480,816
1929 . . 2,393,640 704,286 477,180
includes £120,000 of reserves capitalised from here.
flneludes £229,650 of reserves capitalised from here.
A cut of £3636 in exes, left the net result
equal -to 10.9 p.c. on average capital com-
pared with 12.3, 12.7, 13.3 and 15.4 p.c. back
to 15)25, or an average of 12.9 p.c. as against
an average of 15.4 p.c. for the preceding
quinquennium. Of course everything may not
be on view. Indeed, if the past can be
accepted as a guide, and there is no reason
why it should not be, it is most unlikely
that all is in the window. The 10 p.c. div.
has been an annual event for the last 24
years, with a bit extra in the fat periods.
Also £90,000 of inner reserves was exhibited
in 1918, and another £109,342 was brought
from a safe hiding-place immediately after
the slump in 1921. Thus the management
admitted to putting aside more than proved
to be necessary for contingencies during
former good years. And it is highly impro-
bable that it has since neglected to make
substantial provision for contingencies such
as arose last year.
The decline in the ratios of net profit to
average capital is very largely due to the
brisk inflow of new capital. To tide clients'
over a difficult time 57,220 new £lO shares,
called to £6, were issued toward the close
of last accounts. They brought with them
£115.044 of share premiums, which were
added to reserves; also they made paid
capital £2,393,640, of which no less than
£1,510,440 has come in during the last half-
dozen years.
The new money has been used mostly to
finance clients; and under normal conditions
that should mean a steady increase in future
earnings. A run of good average seasons and
tho rapid growth of the pastoral industry in
Westralia have aided the development of the
business immensely. A couple of years ago
clients sent m so many bales of wool that
the co.’s big stores at Port Adelaide would
not hold them all, so more space had to be
leased. That meant extra handling and bigger
exes., so the board decided to put up yet
another warehouse. What has been done in
this and other directions since 1920 is
seen m the next comparison of balance-sheet
figures:—
1920. 1926. 1928. 1929.
£ £ £ £
Deposits,
etc. . . 2,201,305 1,971,052 2,131,529 1,976,496
unities ! a ' 65,587 73,331 48,654 12,138
nfises ’ ?ant
eta 6 ’ pan 278,598 446,622 550,263 566,864
Government
stock and
cash .. 1,456,515 1,284,421 1,379,215 1,288,382
A d v a nces,
n ® tc- : • 2,o J2’£o!i 3 ’lrs’qf| S ’?9s’qqi
(Ither assets 62,630 158,317 _ 129,816 128,991
The shrinkage of £155,033 in deposits, etc.,
and the drop of £36,516 in other liabilities,
which consist entirely of bills payable, reflect
the > year’s difficult conditions. Freeholds,
which cost £622,832, had a hook value _ of
£510,256 at June 30, up £19,586 during
the year. Since all that and £372,861 added
to the book value of advances, merchandise,
shares in other cos etc., less provision for
bad and doubtful debts and contingencies
caflcd for more than the £458,364 put up by
shareholders during the twelve-months liquids
were drawn upon for £90,833. Nevertheless,
the position was very strong. At the close ot
last accounts every £1 of outside money at
MSk in the business, including the provident
guaiantee fund (£227,474), was coveted by
more or less liquids with a book value of
48s Bd.; exduding advances depositors and
others could see 12s. 3d. of every 20s. of
J'k®* I ’. mopey in cash and ready realisable
Recent'light rains have given slight relief
in parts of S. Aus., but most of the State
and tho West Darling continue dry. In
Westralia propects are excellent. The share
market, impressed by the co.’s past perform-
ances and its strength, expresses its con-
fidence in the future by paying £lO 6s. for
the scrip. After allowing for the final div.
the return at that figure is 6 p.c. on a 10
p.c. div. basis. The backing amounts to
£9 2s. sd. per share in net tangibles.
The New Zealand Insurance Co.
Net To Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves,
Now, £
1918.. 20 211 121 P- c - = 7o ’n 0 1 °? n 1 n 2 f l’ 2ll
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 765,946
1919.. 186,171 Ilf p.c. = 87,500 98,671 864,617
May,
1920.. 112,590 134 „ „ 50,000 62,590 927,207
1921.. 271,803 134 „ ~ 100,000 171,803 1,099,010
1922. . 52,592 134 ~ ~ 100,000 1,051,602
1923.. 181,960 14.2 „ ~ 106,250 75,710 1,127,312
Taxation reserve not required 30,000 1,157,312
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 1,007,312
1924.. 186,257 124 p.c. =112,500 73,757 1,081,069
1925.. 243,331 13.2 „ ~118,750 124,581 1,205,650
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 1,055,650
1926.. 208,617 11.9 p.c. =125.000 83,617 1,139,267
1927.. 244,172 124 „ ~131,250 112,922 1,252,189
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 1,102,189
1928.. 226,536 11.5 p.c. =137,500 89,036 1,191,225
1929.. 232,088 11.5 „ ~137,500 94,588 1,285,813
This very successful fire and marine .office
is Auckland-controlled. It lias been accept-
ing risks—fish swim into its net from all
quarters of the globe—for the past 70 years,
and for the last 16 of them old shareholders
have had a rich time. Of the £1.200,000 of
paid capital no less than £900,000 has been
provided out of accumulated profits since
1913. The last £150.000, iianded out two
years ago, made the 1,500,000 £1 shares paid
to 16s. each. A point was promptly lopped
off the nominal rate of dividend, reducing
it to lit p.c., hut that is worth £50,000 more
than 111 p.c. was in 1919. So without put-
ting any new money into the business share-
holders are now receiving over half as much
again in dividends as they did 10 years ago.
Moreover, last year’s return from investments
(£134,077, up £3804) was only £3423 short
of the div. Indeed, interest and rents have
followed closely on. the heels of distributions
for over a decade, during which time the
bulk of the underwriting surpluses have been
available to swell investments, and, of course,
the returns therefrom.
It has been an extraordinary development.
The phenomenal leap in shipping values dur-
ing the War years sent the premium income
of this and other cos. accepting marine risks
up with a rush. At the time there was more
business offering than cautious underwriters
cared to accept. Then the success of the
British Navy in dealing with tlw submarine
menace helped enormously in keeping the loss
rate down, thus enabling large profits to he
won. And shareholders in those cos. blessed
witb prudent management have since en-
joyed the sweets, while their capital has
been solidly entrenched behind a high wall
of protective reserves invested in sound
securities.
This comparison of the co.’s underwriting
performances shows what happened :
Loss F.xpense
Rate. Rate.
Premiums. Losses. Expenses, p.c. p.c.
1900.. £342,336 £195,864 £95,651 57.2 27.9
1905.. 425,991 273,698 111,677 64.2 26.2
1906.. 565,149 | |oBs’ggg 129,361 111.9 22.0
1910.. 605,509 391,321 ' 172,593 64.5 28.5
1915.. 740,646 423,844 208,879 57.2 28.2
1918. . 1,215,087 644,232 387,798 53.2 31.9
1921. . 1,275,230 768,469 344,253 60.3 27.0
1924.. 1,026,045 608,214 348,973 59.2 34.0
1925. 603,650 342,334 56.2 31.9
1926. . 1,066,012 633,973 355,380 59.5 33.3
1927. . 1,121,425 664,684 338,588 59.3 30.2
1928. . 1,150,232 694,344 361,367 60.4 31.4
1929. . 1,183,974 724,190 362,574 61.2 30.6
♦General. tSan Francisco disaster.
Then followed the great post-war slump in
shipping values. Competition sharpened,
rates were cut, and, generally, marine busi-
ness lias been unsatisfactory since. Mean-
while, other lines were vigorously developed
with fluctuating results. A few years ago
the employers’ liability section caused many
cos. anxiety. Then American fire business
had a run of bad years—this co. closed its
New York office in 1926. More recently
the rapid growth in accident business, due
mainly to motor-car insurance, has been less
satisfactory than it might. Also, heavy fire
losses in Maoriland and Australia lately
caused underwriters in both countries to look
hard at premium rates on certain classes of
risks.
Excepting a couple of occasions during the
post-war slump the co.’s loss rate last year
was the heaviest since pre-war days. Of
course, there was the recent ’quake in Maori-
land, but outside a very sparsely-populated
area on the West iCoast its effect, as far as
actual damage is concerned, was not serious.
On the other hand, it stimulated a demand
for earthquake cover. The spring in last
year’s net premiums was £33,742, or £5035
more than the spring in the previous year’s.
Losses took £29,846 and exes. £1207 of the
increase; thus the underwriting surplus
(£97,210) was £2689 stronger than at the
previous balance. That, the growth in the
return from investments and a small unex-
plained addition to the investment fluctua-
tion reserve (£42.489) account for the im-
provement of £5552 in the year’s net profit,
which was 9.5 p.c. on average funds (capital
and reserves combined) compared with 9.4,
10.8, 9.5 and 11.9 p.c. back to 1925. To
pay an Ilf p.c. div. funds at May 31 had
to earn only 5.5 p.c.
From the policy-holders’ point of view
the co.’s position is a very strong one. At the
close of last accounts shareholders’ funds
were equal to 209 p.c. of the year’s net pre-
miums, or 59 p.c. more than is usually looked
for. Put another way, there were funds suffi-
cient to meet the aggregate losses of the last
34 years. If more is wanted shareholders
can be called upon to dredge up another
£300,000. And assets are a solid lot:
1914. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital 450,000 1,050,000 1,200,000 1,200,000
Liabilities .. 252,929 353,339 355,747 392,909
Public securi-
ties . . 521,979 1,845,803 1,855,804 1,879,142
Mortgages.. 195,409 33,967 38,507 28,774
Shares, etc. 395 9,955 91,485 103,015
Freeholds . . 349,457 409,529 432,062 444,307
Agency bal-
ances and
cash .. 240,249 445,023 417,864 512,234
It may be taken for granted that they are
well worth their book value. Inabilities con-
sist of £205,756 appropriated for unascer-
tained losses, and £187,153 coming to credi-
tors, including something for unearned pre-
miums. It is quite possible that there may
be a little hidden in each item.
The trustee branch of the business con-
tinues to expand. At May 31 trusts in hand
totalled £5,533,740. an increase of £162,483
during the year. The total was only £429,738
11 years ago. What this department earns
is not disclosed.
The market, eager in its anticipations, pays
48s. 6d. for the scrip. The immediate return
at that price is only 3.8 p.c. on an Ilf p.c.
div. basis. If the rate was lifted a point
and another 2s. per share capitalised the
return would still be only a shade over 44 p.c.
Silverton Tramway Co., Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1921.. 18,834 24 p.c. = ,12,500 £6,334 35,432
1922.. 54,080 74 „ „ 37,500 16,580 52,012
1923.. 83,112 13§ „ „ 68,750 14,362 66,374
1924.. 90,557 20 „ „ 100,000 56,931
1925.. 81,514 ll£ „ „ 56,250 25,264 82.’195
1926.. 76,603 15 „ „ 75,000 1.603 83,798
1927.. 68,572 llj „ „ 56,250 12,322 96,120
1928.. 76,074 74 „ „ 37,500 38,574 134,694
1929.. 53,914 10 ~ ~.50,000 3,914 138,608
This is the co. which owns and operates the
36-mile railway link connecting Broken Hill
with the South Aus. system at Cockburn.
Its main revenue comes from the haulage of
minerals and mining requisites. The two
chief products of Broken Hill ores, lead con-
centrates and zinc concentrates, are not
treated.on the field, but railed to Port Fine.
There the Associated Smelters deal with
the “leadies”; the zinc concentrates are
either, pre-roasted and shipped to the Elec-
trolytic co.’s works at Risdon (Tas.) or
sent to England under contract with the
British Government.
Last year there was a sharp drop of
£35,970 in earnings (£159,459). which
reached their lowest point in the last eight
years. For this the board blames a falling
off in coal traffic, due to the stoppage on
the northern N. S. Wales fields, the closing
of the B. H. Prop, and Block 14 co.’s mines,
and a temporary curtailment in the despatch
of zinc concentrates for shipment overseas.
Exes. (£105,335) were cut back £22,733;
thus, after allowing for reserves adjustments,
the slip in the year’s final figure was £22,160.
The £53,914 netted was 10.7 p.c. on capital
compared with 15.2, 13.7, 15.3, 16.3 and 18.1
p.c. back to 1924. Nevertheless the div.,
which was put back to 74 p.c. in the pre-
vious year, was lifted to 10 p.c., making the
average 10.9 p.c. since 1920. In that year
paid capital was doubled by the issue of
£250,000 of bonus scrip.
What a money-spinner the co. lias been is
obvious from the fact that no less than
£437,200 of the half-million of paid capital
represents gift issues. The future of the busi-
ness depends upon the future of the. big
silver-lead mines at the Barrier. That is to
say, there is a point ahead when the co.'s
operations are likely to cease. So, to pro-
vide for the repayment of shareholders’ capi-
tal when that time arrives, the board last
year earmarked £12,500, or 2| p.c. on capital,
as a special reserve fund. The intention is to
build up this reserve by regular annual
instalments. To maintain last year’s rate
of contribution and pay a 10 p.c. div. means
that the co. will have to net at least 124 p.c..,
and for three out of the last nine years the
rate of profit has been less than that; but
average net earnings over the same period
were equal to 13.4 p.c. on capital. In the
past freights have been assisted by large
quantities of concentrates recovered by the
treatment of old slime dumps, but these are
now nearing exhaustion. The establishment
of a central oil-driven power plant at the
mines won’t help earnings from the haulage
of fuel either. Also there is the Sydney-
Broken Hill N. S. Wales Government line,
which was opened in Nov., 1927. Amongst
other things it now carries 1700 tons of zinc
concentrates monthly to Cockle Creek. It
is unlikely, however, that competition from
this line will prove to be serious. Against
all this is the possibility that the mining
cos. may increase their output.
The co.’s finances are very comfortable, as
this comparison of balance-sheet figures
shows: —
1918. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital. . £250,000 £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Liabilities . . 46,250 108,889 79,774 47,568
Fixed assets . . 204,346 472,752 481.418 484,436
Fuel and stores 39,926 46,974 42,703 31,221
Sundry debtors 55,399 82,410 60,766 56,229
Cash, etc. .. 117,793. 111,219 130,013 114,466
Excluding fuel and stores the liquid sur-
plus at June 30 amounted to £123,127 (up
£12,212 during the year), and £107.000 of
that was invested in public securities. So there
was then £376,873 of capital represented
by fixed assets and equipment. On a 5 p.c.
compound-interest basis, and with regular
contributions of £12,500 p.a.. it would take
about 19 years for the capital redemption
fund to overtake that figure.
The question arises, therefore, as to how
long mining operations on a major scale
may be expected to continue at the Barrier.
It is impossible to say definitely. Every-
time a prophet has arisen to thunder the date
of the field’s demise, the .diamond drill has
stabbed a new ore body, and the date of the
funeral is pushed further into the future. In
1910 some mining experts put ore reserves,
at Broken Hill at 13,085,000 tons. Since
then no fewer than 23,000,000 tons have been
raised, and ore reserves to-day are probably
greater than the figure given in 1910. At
recent rates of extraction there is over a
dozen years' work measured up in each of the
three big mines—-the North, South and Zinc
Corp.—and large ore bodies are known to
exist outside tbe measured areas.
The share market expresses its confidence
in the future by paying 255. for the Silver-
ton co.’s pound shares. The return at that
figure is 8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Were’s Investment Trust, Ltd.
This, Australia’s first investment trust co.,
was launched by J. B. Were and Son, the
Melbourne sharebrokers, in July, 1928. It
offered a round half-million ss. shares, which
were quickly taken, and six months later
another quarter-million had been put out.
Thus paid capital became £187,500 at June
30.
Accounts for the eleven months to that
date reflect very careful handling of the in-
vestment portfolio and other matters. Divi-
dends, etc. (£11,054), underwriting (£820)
and profit on bonds and debentures (£1176)
brought in £13,050. Of this interest (£1932),
audit fees, etc. (£378) and provision for taxa-
tion (£408) took £2718. That left a net
profit of £10,332, equal to 7.4 p.c. on average
capital. Shareholders got a 6 p.c. div.


This is an abridged Prospectus.
Applications for shares will be received only on the basis of the full Prospectus, which is available from any Official Stock Exchange
Broker and should be lodged by 12 noon on 10th September next.
To Enable Australia to Share
in the Huge Profits of Whaling
TOO long has Australia neglected the wealth that lies in whaling! With the finest
whaling grounds in the world at our very doors —with the waters of the Antarctic
yielding fabulous cargoes of whale-oil —we have been content to stand by and see
other nations come thousands of miles to take the wealth we left on our own doorsteps!
Now Australia has decided to take a hand. We are going to tap this industry and
share in the enormous profits that are being made.
Some idea of the richness of the field may be gathered from the fact that Norwegian
companies operating in the southern waters secured, in the 1927-1928 season, over
700,000 barrels of oil, valued at over £3,000,000. To this quantity must be added the
oil secured in other whaling seas, including the £650,000 worth of oil garnered by
the Rosshavet Company, operating in the Ross Sea.
This world’s record catch of 132,000 barrels by the Rosshavet Company proves beyond
a doubt the superiority of the Ross Sea as a whaling ground, further proof being
shewn in the fact that the Rosshavet boats are able to select only the richer bliv
whales for capture. These are so plentiful that the hordes of less valuable hump
backed whales are disregarded. .
In the Ross Sea and adjacent waters, therefore, will be born a new and vita] Australia-
industry—an industry that is destined to play a big part in the nation’s prosperity
For this purpose there has been formed the
i
f.
SI
S.
mini
-
1
*
330,000
15,000
155,000
ROSS SEA
IN(T COMPANY, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies
dots of New South Wales — 1899”1918
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS.
CAPITAL - - - - £500,000
Divided into 500,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each as follows: t . + . . , . . .. one
Ordinary Shares of £1 each for public subscription, payable 2/6 per Share on application, 2/0 per Share on allotment, and the balance in calls of 2/6 per . aie a m e " a on
month. Of these Shares priority of subscription has been granted in respect of 50,000 Shares to residents ot .Norway.
Ordinary Shares of £1 each, fully paid up, to be allotted to the Vendor Companies. No cash consideration. . Pnmranv’s fleet which is the usual practice in
Shares of £1 each are held in reserve for future issue, 20,000 of which are specially set aside for subscription by Officers and crew of the Company s fleet,
Norwegian enterprises.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
P. E. BRYANT, Esq., Chairman Union Trustee Co. of Australia, Limited, Sydney; and
formerly Manager of Union Bank of Australia, Limited, Sydney.
SIR GRAHAM WADDELL, K.8.E., Chairman Australian Woolgrowers’ Council, and Vice-
President Graziers’ Association of N.S.W.
W. R. CARPENTER, Esq., Chairman and Managing Director W. R. Carpenter and Co., Ltd.,
Island Merchants and Shipowners, Sydney and London.
qti? navi n ot?mf MASSON KBE MA. D.Sc., LL.D., F.R.S., etc., Acting Chairman of
the Mawson Antarctic Expedition; Director National Mutual Life Association of Austra la,
w. H. L S “To“ a E ?,°i MaSS? Director c“«b.v and ? o Sbipown™ ,»d March.nts,
Melbourne - Director of Commercial Bank of Australia, Limited, etc.
NEW ZEALAND LOCAL BOARD.
CAPTAIN MATTHIS ERIK SEN WIIG, Consul for Norway, The Bluff, N.Z.
FRANCIS TYSON, Esq., Shipping Company Manager, Dunedin, N-Z-
-HAROLD LIVINGSTONE TAPLEY, Esq., C.M.G., Shipping Agent, Dunedin, JN.Z.
MANAGEMENT
It must be conceded that the most important factor in such an industry as whaling is competent management, and to
having built up this industry on sound and profitable lines. , , „ „„ r .
Realising this, negotiations were commenced to secure the most competent Norwegian management, and as a result
Rosshavet Whaling Co., Ltd. ...
This arrangement places the Company in a singularly fortunate position which should ensure success from the very
a license from the New Zealand Government, formed the Rosshavet Whaling Co., and pioneered whaling in the Ross bea
THE UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LTD. Auditors - - -
THE NATIONAL BANK OF NEW ZEALAND, LTD. o
WINTER, SIMPSON & CO., Hunter Street, Secretaries -
Bankers
Solicitors
BLAKE AND RIGGALL, 120 William Street, Melbourne.
MOORE. MOORE & NICOL, Stuart Street, Dunedin.
OBJECTS OF THE COMPANY
the Norwegians, a race famous in whaling annals, must be given the credit of
the services have been secured of MAGNUS KONOW, Managing Director of the
outset. It was Magnus Konow, with the late Captain C. A. Larsen, who obtained
Dependency, where this Company will now operate.
FLACK & FLACK, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, London.
" “ H. H. SYKES, Esq., A.I.A. (N.Z.), 150 Rattray Street, Dunedin.
C P. EARLE & CO., Incorporated Company Secretaries, Cathcart House,
“ ” ' 11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney. or
W. A. MITSON & CO., Public Accountants and Company Secretaries,
24 Water Street, Dunedin.
Th * ST. ZgSTXZ.'Z' t. be carried out under th, direction ol Mr. M.gnn. *•— 1 «* *“•*
director, who has been appointed the Company’s agent. . . ~ r/ tn wVmln in the Ross Sea Denendencv. The application for the license has
THE NEW COMPANY—ITS PLANS AND PROSPECTS
....movements and fitted with wireless. The fleet will De nttea out in win nor exceeo
The Company’s agent in Norway has advised that the cos^ 9 °* p . P t two seasons shows at 10,318 tons of oil per season, which at £3O per
S. SflW Companies, ha. cert.hed that in hi. opinion exp.ndi.nt. .. .over the eo., o« the .
£250,000
will not exceed
£309,540
ton amounts to
season’s cruise to the Ross
opinion expenditure
134,000
Sea and back will not exceed
Surplus .. . • • • • • • • • • •
CThe sumlus shown £175,540, represents over 50 per cent, on the issued capital of the Company.) c . o nordtai
\ i h lr L ° N . I,ra ,.. T I M^„°L. Ja ™ a r 1 Z i’„J^^,.i h L P^!it ed WhS. Limited ß^ S Snan C y 01 fo™ed RSto'^nmchase ’clntrof of A. I Hertois TwhaUng" company incorporated i
£175,540
In the London Times of January 3, 1929, the published figures of the Kosshavet company- *£ Wertor/a whaling company incorporated in 1910 under Norwegian
Recent news from Norway states that shares in Hector Whaling, Limited, * London to t he Norwegian company.
U "’nT^»^Tin , Sprtoh t MX «31 h ”er e ton*woula“dd o oxer MO,OOO to the profit. aa .hown above.’ This clearly .how. that the increasing production ol- whale ~1 up.bl. to
that whaling in the Ross Sea i. a very lucrative busine*. Th. formation of th. F.ciHc and Roe. ft. Whaiing Company, Limited. .Her. th. ft* opportunity to
the . company with ** great MM«K potentialities. It 1. believed that pro»t. earned w,U not be
taxable in Australia, since they will be made outside the Commonwealth.
BIG PROFITS FROM WHALING
The following information regarding the operations of three of the leading Norwegian Whaling Companies was recently published in London:-
“VESTFOLD” WHALING CO., LTD., operates a land station
at South Georgia, and owns the Tanker s.s. Peder Bogen, of
12,900 tons d.w., together with eight whalers.
Profits for the last five years have been as follows:
“SYDHAVET” WHALING 00., LTD., operates off the South
Shetlands and owns a Floating Factory, the s.s. Svend Foyn I,
of 5800 tons d.w., with tanks for 26,000 barrels of oil, together
with three whalers.
Profits for the last five years have been as follows: —
Year Ended ■
31st July,
1924..
1925..
1926..
1927..
1928..
Barrels,
of Whale Oil.
16,830
22,050
24,540
15,410
36,250
Profit
Percentage Earned.
45 p.c.
69 „
40 „
2 „
52 „
“ROSSHAVET” WHALING CO., LTD., operates in the Ross Sea
and off the Balleny Islands, and owns two Floating Factories,
the s.s. Sir James Clark Ross, of 12,450 tons d.w., ' v] th tanks
for 50,000 barrels of oil, and the s.s. C. A. Larsen, of 17,200
tons d.w., with tanks for 75,000 barrels of oil, together with
eleven whalers.
Profits for the last five years have been as follows
Year Ended
31st July.
1924..
1925..
1926..
1927..
1928..
Rarrels.
of Whale Oil.
17,000
31,850
39,630
73,270
128,000
Profit
Percentage Earned.
13 p.e.
54 „
19 „
8 „
69 „
Whaling 1 Co.-a company that
has
consistently earned latge profits and paid high dividends since its inception in lfi~2o.
OFFICIAL BROKERS
MELBOURNE: FRED THONEMANN & CO., National Mutual Building, 395 Collins Street,
Melbourne. „_ a ,
SYDNEY- F 0 FURNER & CO., Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BRISBANE: A. H. HUDSON & SON, 303 Queen Street, Brisbane.
HOBART: H. W. BAYUEY & 00., A.M.P. Chambers, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
LAUNCESTON: C. J. WEE DON PTY., LTD., St. Andrew’s Chambers, St. John Street.
ADELAIDE: ROBERT BRUCE ft SONS, Brookman Building, Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
PERTH: SAW & GRIMWOOD, 16 and 17 New Zealand Chambers, St. Georges lenace,
NEW ZEALAND: HAMILTON & DAVIDSON, Dunedeselskap, Oslo.
NORWAY: GRONVOLD & SELMER, Kommanditaktiin, N.Z.
■Complete Prosplctuses are available from, and applications should be lodged with, any of the above or other members of recognised Stock Exchanges It is intended to make application to lust the shares
pi ie rospecmes ate avauu i , 0 „ the principal Stock Exchanges of the Commonwealth of Australia and Dominion of New Zealand.


Can
they Pull
Through?
Many concerns are falling by
the way, broken by high costs
and burdensome taxes.
Here’s a big co. that will
not pay even its unsecured
creditors 5/- in the £. The
pref. shareholders will lose
every penny.
Are you a shareholder? Have
you an insurance policy ? Do
companies owe you money ?
Don’t lose your capital- Keep
yourself informed.
The leading Australian
authority on all these matters
is
“THE ‘WILD CAT
MONTHLY.”
AUGUST NUMBER NOW ON SALE
SINGLE COPY, 2/-; PER ANNUM,
22/6. Prom Newsagents, or Bulletin
Offices, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Codmson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Auvt.
* * * *
British and American Capital to Invest on Mort-
gage. Debenture Issues Underwritten. Geo. E.
Dickenson, Trustee, Victoria Buildings, Corner Collins
and Swanston Streets, Melbourne. — Advt.
si: * * *
A pipe line that is absolutely non-corrosive incurs
very little upkeep expense and maintains absolute
purity of its liquid content. Pioneer Wood Pipe
cannot corrode —its flow never chokes nor lessens —in
fact it increases with use. Many important instal-
lations of Pioneer Wood Pipe bear testimony to
the efficiency of this conduit. It is very much
cheaper than metal pipe—it is extremely durable,
light, easily laid, and is unaffected by frost, heat or
electrolysis. An interesting' data book will be sent
post free to those interested on application to The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Burns Bay Road
(near Figtree Bridge), Lane Cove, N.S.W.; and at
Footscray, Victoria. — Advt.
# * * *
ORE AND METAL BUYERS.—-Norman Hill & Co.,
Ltd., Cathcart' House, Sydney, Rep. largest American
and European Smelters. Buyers Dirty Tin Ores,
Copper, Lead, Gold, Silver, Antimony, Wolfram,
Scheelite, Tantalite, Molybdenite, and other ores and
concentrates. Properties examined and reported on.
—Advt.
* * * *
Inventors.- —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith & Hassel, Patent Attorney, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, obtain Commonwealth and foreign
patents. — Advt.
* * * *
ROBERTS’ IMPROVED PRICKLY PEAR POISON
is the best eradicator of prickly pear. All appli-
cations for this poison to be addressed: Secretary,
Queensland Prickly Pear Commission, Brisbane. In
New South Wales: Commissioner, Prickly Pear
Destruction Board, Moree. — Advt.
* * * *
WIRE ROPES—AUSTRALIAN MADE.—Prices and
particulars from Bullivants’ Australian Co., Ltd.,
331-333 Kent Street, Sydney; J. R. Reid and Sons,
401-403 Kent Street, Sydney. Successfully used all
over the Commonwealth for all purposes.— Advt.
6^
rOORD & SON
LONDON. ENGLAND W <l
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
%
DT
A
■ Swift & Company Ltd.. Australasian Agents, 36/30 Clarence St., Sydney
Recognise Your Duty and Appoint a Reliable Executor
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS & AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED
(The Pioneer Trustee Company oj Australia )
4-12 Collins Street, Melbourne,
is specially qualified to act as your Executor and Trustee.
Its experience of over 50 years is ample assurance that it will manage your affairs to the best
advantage. Unlike an individual the Company is permanent, and its Capital and Assets are
available for the protection of Clients’ interests.
DIRECTORS: Sir John Grice (Chairman), Sir J. H. MacFarland, M.A., LL.D. (Vice-Chairman),
R. O. Blackwood, D. Stuart Murray, Alexander Stewart, J. Fordyce.
Empowered by Special Acts of Parliament to operate in the States
of New South Wales and Victoria.
CHAS. R. SMIBERT. General Manager ■ V. G. WATSON. Manager.
'l^l
imm
iM
[PREPARED*!
Guaranteed by the manufacturers to
go further, last longer and uniformly
give better results than any other
paint made. —“8.P.”
"KEEPS ON KEEPING ONI”
Cadi!!!!
u
D
OBTAINABLE
EVERYWHERE
(£7041), leaving £2691 of the declared net
earnings in the business.
In addition, changes of investments yielded
a surplus of £4732, of which £592 was put
aside for the tax-gatherer and £3788 was
used to wipe out preliminary exes., which
were very moderate. The £351 that was left
provided the nucleus of an investment fluc-
tuation reserve. The intention is to re-em-
ploy iii the business all capital profits made
in this way. This reserve fund policy is one
of the most important factors in the success-
ful development of an investment trust co.
It is largely to the accumulation of reserves
that shareholders will have to look for future
benefits ; nothing better than 6 p.c., therefore,
need be expected for a while.
The co.’s initial success is largely due to
its association with the promoting share-
broking organisation. Amongst other things
the latter provided the necessary office accom-
modation and performed all management and
routine work without charge to the co. Also
the directors drew no fees for tlieir services
last year. It would, of course, be unreason-
able to expect such favors to continue, and
henceforth the cost of conducting the busi-
ness will be met out of the co.’s own revenue.
The prospectus put management charges at
not more than 5 p.c. of the gross revenue.
Including capital profits, that would call for
£BB9 on last year’s figures. Appearances are,
therefore, that the 6 p.c. div. i s not likely to
be interfered with.
At the close of accounts the outside debt
amounted to £66,095, of which £50.000 was
on deposit, and _ most of the balance on
account pf securities bought but not paid
for pending delivery. On the other side of
the sheet investments figured at £261,637.
Their market value at June 30 was only £56
less than that; it was over £2OOO in excess
of the book figure a month later. The invest-
ments, a full list of which accompanies the
sheet, number 205; they are remarkably well
spread, contain a good sprinkling of prefer-
ence and gilt-edged stocks, and are nearly
all listed on the Stock Exchange. Of the
book value of the lot 10.3 p.c. is in bonds and
debentures ; 20.1 p.c. manufacturing, spread
over 10 industries; 9.7 p.c. mining, chiefly
the leading Broken Hill silver-lead cos. The
only other assets were book debts, cash, etc.,
£1564.
Satisfied that it can profitably employ a
much larger capital the board recently offered
those on the register 750,000 new ss. shares,
one for _ one, at par. The issue has been
underwritten by J. B. Were and Son without
cost to the co. When all the money on this
issue is in paid capital will be £375,000.
The co.’s scrip has been listed in Adelaide,
and the articles are to be altered to comply
with requirements in Sydney and Melbourne.
The market prices the scrip at 6s. Bd. After
exercising the rights and allowing for
brokerage (2-Jd. per share), the return at
that price is only 5.2 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div.
basis. It is all very flattering to the manage-
ment.
John Hicks & Co. (Brisbane).
Net , Dividends Jo Re- Re-
April, Profit. Pref. Ords. Total, serves, serves.
1919.. 5477 7 p.c. 7 p.c. = 3300 2177 3,136
1920.. 6294 8 „ 8 „ „ 4026 2268 5,404
Transferred to capital, £4718 .. 686
1921.. 8521 8 p.c. 8 p.c. = 4474 4047 4,733
1922.. 5571 8 „ 8 „ „ 5558 13 4,746
1923.. 7094 8 „ 8 „ „ 5626 1468 6,214
1924.. 7314 8 „ 8 „ „ 5662 1652 7,866
1925.. 8536 8 „ 8 „ „ 6605 1931 9,797
1926.. 7478 8 „ 8 „ „ 6099 1379 11,176
1927.. 9552 8 „ 8 „ „ 7921 1631 12,807
Loss.
1928.. 342 7 „ Nil 2100 10,365
Profit.
1929.. 437 7 „ Nil 2100 8,702
This co. took over the 15-year-okl furnishing
and furnishing-drapery business of John
Hicks, Ltd., in 1915. Soon prices began to
soar. Capital was difficult to attract, and
to maintain the necessary stocks the board
gave a debenture to the bank. It was not
until after the war that the management
set to work to develop the business.
To begin with, the co. became its own land-
lord, and, in order to attract funds, capital-
ised £4718 of the slender reserves to pay
4s. a share on a one-for-two new Issue.
That was in 1920. Presently a new six-
storeyed building was put up m Ann-street,
the old premises were improved and the factory
reorganised. A close watch was kept upon
stocks, and the co. passed through the post-
war price slump without damage, share-
holders receiving a regular 8 p.c. for the
eight years to the close of accounts in 1927.
To lighten the debt, buy new labor-saving
machines and carry more stocks 22,820 prefs.
and 6410 ords. were put out in the previous
year, making paid capital £lOO,OOO, at which
figure it still stands.
Then drought and financial stringency
made trading difficult, and for the year to
June 30, 1928, there was a sharp drop of
20 p.c. in turnover; gross profits (£28,390)
fell away £10,519, and a loss of £342 showed
up. Last year trade improved a trifle,
but keen competition and price-cutting nar-
rowed margins and gross profits (£26,461)
slipped £1929. A cut of £2708 in exes.
(£26,024) left a profit of £437, so reserves
bad to be dipped into again to pay the prefs.
their minimum 7 p.c., and for the third time
in the last 14 years the ords. went hungry.
Prospects for the current year are brighter,
but until a much more substantial buttress
is provided for capital divs. are likely to
remain sensitive to trade fluctuations.
Here is the co.’s position, -with compari-
sons, as balance-sheet figures reflect it—
-1926. 1927. 1928. 1929.
Paid capital.. £93,749 £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Debenture .. 22,021 26,510 20,974 29,723
Mortgage .. 13,000 12,000 11,000
Sundry creditors 3,602 4,374 3,928 4,146
Freehold & plant 60,484 60,501 59,824 60,027
Stocks .. 50,455 55,830 48,792 39,763
Book debts .. 35,746 43,230 38,571 43,702
Cash, etc. .. 130 130 130 130
To wipe out the mortgage (£ll,OOO at the
previous balance) and carry an extra £5131
of book debts the board tacked £8749 on to
the debenture debt, and worked stocks down
£9029. The more or less liquid surplus
(£49,726, including stocks) was £1865 lighter
than at the previous balance. Stocks are
claimed to be worth their book value, and
book debts, mostly hire-purchase agreements,
are reported sound—much depends upon
that.
The prefs.—there are 30,000 of them—-
are entitled to a cumulative 7 p.c. and
advance with the ords. in any distribution
beyond that rate. Sellers ask 19s. for them
without attracting buyers. At that figure
the return is 7.3 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis.
The backing amounts to £3 12s. sd. per share
in net tangibles. The ords. have a net tan-
gible backing of 225. 6d. each. But the
market, doubtful of their earning power,
offers only 95., while sellers ask 11s.
George A. Bond & Co. (in liquidation).
A scheme is afoot to form a new co. with
a nominal capital of £500,000 in £1 shares
to take over the business and assets of
George A. Bond and Co. and its cotton-
spinning associate. Ordinary shareholders in
both cos. will not get anything out of the
proposed deal. Pref. shareholders in George
A. Bond and Co. won’t get any of their capi-
tal back either. They are to be given an
opportunity to take up 150,000 shares in the
new co. for cash. Pref. holders in G. A.
Bond Cotton Mills are to receive their capi-
tal and arrears of dividends (the latter were
guaranteed by the parent co. for 20 years)
in 7 p.c. debentures and deposit certificates,
identical as to conditions with those to be
issued to the parent co.’s creditors.
Subject to the approval of creditors and
the Court, the purchasing co. agrees to cause
the old co. to be discharged from all lia-
bility to secured creditors, and to pay in
cash liquidation and reconstruction exes., and
all debts incurred since the commencement
of the wind-up (Dec. 7, 1927) ; debts not
exceeding £lOO and whatever is coming to
the Crown are to be paid in cash, too.
Unsecured creditors not paid in cash are
to be discharged by the issue of 7 p.c.
debentures and deposit certificates with a
five-years’ currency, secured by a floating
mortgage over the co.’s assets, but subject
to the prior claims of present secured credit-
ors. (£203,388). The new co. has the right
to increase the amount of prior mortgages to
£2*0,000. It will also cause the Cotton
Mill Co. “to be discharged from all liability
to secured creditors,” and will pay that co.’s
other debts in cash. Subscribed capital in
the Cotton Mills is £352,007 in 252,007 ords.
and 100,000 prefs.; 250,000 of the ords. are
held by the parent, but they are not given
any value in its balance-sheet.
On the basis of the parent co.’s figures at
June 30, the new co. will take over debts
amounting to £722,796. Against these it will
have tangible assets with a book value of
£987,696 —stocks, £425,592 ; freehold, plant,
etc., £461,790; book debts, £91,587; cash,
etc., £8727. Recent figures for the Cotton
Mills are not available. Thus, on paper, there
was £264,900 of shareholders’ money in the
parent co. represented by tangible assets at
June 30. But it was all invested in plant,
the real worth of which is what it
can earn. “Realisation by tender or public
auction would, we feel satisfied, involve
disintegration, with consequent enormous loss
of values,” is how the liquidators put it.
The Australian Investment Trust has
underwritten 100,000 shares in the new co.
at 74 p.c. The promoters of the scheme are
to take up a further 25,600.
Pacific and Ross Sea Whaling Co.
This co. has been registered in Sydney
with a nominal capital of £500,000 in £1
shares. It is on the market with 330,000
of them; 15,000 p&ids go to the vendors
and the balance (15o,000) are in reserve
The money is wanted to buy and equip a
factory ship and five chasers and to carry
on whaling operations in the Antarctic, parti-
cularly in the Ross Sea and the neighborhood
of the Balleny Islands.
Half the vendor’s consideration goes to
the Guardian Investment Trust, Ltd. for
“services rendered in the presentation of
the scheme and in negotiations antecedent to
the issue of the prospectus” ; the other half
to the Southern Development Co., Ltd
Dunedin, for a license from the New
Zealand Government to engage in whal-
ing operations with a fleet of two
factory ships and 10 chasers in the .ter-
ritorial waters of the Ross Dependency.
The only other co. at present operating under
license in these waters is the Rosshavet
Whaling Co., of Oslo, Norway. It has two
factory ships—the C. A. Larsen (17,200
tons) and the Sir James Clark Ross (12,450
tons) —and for the year to July 31, 1928,
netted 69 p.c. on paid capital (£345,000)
compared with 8, 19, 54 and 13 p.c. back
to 1924, or an average of 32.6 p.c.
The intention is to pick up a discard from
the passenger trade of about 12,000 tons
register and convert it into a factory ship.
The cost of this and five new chasers is
put at not more than £250,000 by Mr.
Konow, managing director of the Rosshavet
Co. Thus the promoters aim at a working
capital of £BO,OOO subject to preliminary
exes., etc.
Revenue is figured at £309,540 p.a. That
is on the basis of a catch of 10,318 tons of
whale oil, realising £3O per ton—the current
price is around £3l. Exes., including £50,000
for royalties, repairs, bonuses, depreciation
and contingencies, are put at £134,000, which
Capt. M. E. Wiig, Norwegian Consul at The
Bluff, says is ample. Whether estimates can
be realised will depend partly upon whether
the fleet can be bought and fitted out within
the figure stated, partly upon whether
the provision for depreciation,- repairs, etc.,
will be adequate, and, of course, partly upou
the efficiency of the management and the
frequency of the right kind of whale.
The management of the co.’s fleet is to
be undertaken by Mr. Konow for three sea-
sons on an agency basis; payment is to be
at the rate of Is. per barrel of oil produced,
1 p.c. on sales and 21 p.c. on all purchases
and contracts.
On what subscription the co. went to allot-
ment is not mentioned, but actual operations
are not to be commenced until “sufficient
capital has been subscribed.” Brokerage is
6d. a share; no estimate of preliminary exes,
is given. On the board are E. F. Bryant,
Sir Graham Waddell, W. R. Carpenter,
Sir David Orme Masson, W. H. Swanton.
They will be assisted by a local board in
Maoriland —Capt. M. E. Wiig, F. Tyson,
H. L. Tapley. The scrip is to be listed.
Placer Development has completed the test-
ing of its New Guinea Southern and Central
Bulolo leases, which comprise about 41 miles
of river flats, held under option from Guinea
Gold. Approximately 39 million c.y. of wash,
averaging 21.9 ft. deep and worth 2s. Id.
per yard, has been proved by extensive drill-
ing and shafting. Costs, including royalties,
are put at Bd., leaving a net return of Is.
sd. per yard. It is proposed to equip the
property with two dredges, each of 81 c.f.
bucket capacity, to dig 3,000,000 c.y a year,
thus giving a dredging life of 13. years for
the proved ground, which is said to be good
digging. In several places pay gravel is
claimed to exist beyond the limits figured
upon. There is water for every requirement,
including electric power for dredges, shops,
etc. However, the property is some 700 ft.
up and 35 miles from the beach, with a wild
tangle of razor-back mountains in between,
so before the wheels turn a road practicable
for heavy transport or a light railway will
have to be built. The Government was re-
cently reported to have made a start on a
road in from Salaomoa. At best it pro-
mises to be quite a while before dredges are
working on the Bulolo flats.
In addition there are the Northern Bulolo
leases, which the co. has not yet tested.
Values here are expected to be much lower
than those of the southern leases, and for
the most part the ground promises to be
difficult.
* * * *
“Let Go”: Gougers are more than dis-
appointed with returns from copper ore from
newly-found shows near Collinsville (N.Q.).
After freight and other charges were
deducted, there was nothing left. Attention
is now to be given to the silver-lead deposits
in the district. When the Chillagoe smelters
open there is a chance of supplies being
forwarded there from silver-lead shows about
Collinsville.
* * * *
For the year to Dec. 31 last Gt. Boulder
Prop. (W.A.) netted £23,432 as against
£23,094 for the previous 12 months. After
deducting £3OOO for income-tax £44,259 was
carried forward. The co. started the year
with 53,002 tons of 9.0232dwt. ore in sight;
87,321 tons were developed and 89,201 tons
treated, leaving 81,122 tons averaging
9.lldwt. measured up , at the end of the
period. That is apart from development by
tributors. Recommendations for an amal-
gamation with Boulder Perseverance were
turned down by the latter co. Great Boulder
sold portion of its interest in Wiluna Gold
,Corp. for a profit of £5054. That reduced
its holding to 11,700 £1 shares, which are
at a few shillings premium. The co. also has
a substantial interest in Carmen Valley Gold
Mines, Colombia, from which much is
expected.
Tindal’s old mine at Coolgardie (W.A.)
is about to be bored again; this time by a
London syndicate. It was previously stabbed
w j d ji a Government drill, and some of the
roc ] c penetrated at a depth of 500 ft. was
estimated to be worth over 30dwt. a ton.
But the then holders of the property did
nothing in the way of development; maybe
they h * din mind t £ e short-lived shoots, hard
gl . ound and ra pi d dripping which were ex-
perienc|d by a nu * mber ° f °* ld Coolgar f e COS '
Hanse i M undy ( W.A.) is looking for some-
thing to bring the co. to notice again. Few
mining concerns have wandered more about
Australia in search of fortune than this one,
and fewer still have met with worse luck,
This time it has commissioned a well-
known prospector to investigate and report
on several new finds,
* * * *
“Specker”: W. H. Scott, of Siamese Tin,
London, is on the hunt for tin-bearing
areas on the East Coast of Tas. The co.
has taken up large holdings in the vicinity
of St. Helens, on the East Coast. Here
water is the snag; there is talk of getting
it from the Columba Falls, some 30 miles
distant.


I WANT YOU NEXT!
New Sensational Extraordinary! The
greatest demonstration of muscle-building
known to the world of physical culture! YOU
can be next! Almost over-night I’ll trans-
form you into a marvel of muscular power
give you astounding new health, strength
and vitality. Read how!
MIRACLES IN MUSCLE! You hear everybody talking
about them. Physical culture authorities are amazed.
Think of it! Men made over—almost overnight. Puny,
sickly weaklings transformed into suuerb specimens of
MANHOOD 1 Strong men made STRONGER. This
astounding new method works its wonders for ALL—
young or old, sick or well. Incredible? Yes! But
this is an age of marvels.
We speed across continents by aeroplane, where once we
plodded bv stage coach. We talk through the air by
■ radio where once we depended upon slow-footed couriers.
And now BRITON brings to physical culture the greatest
advance of the century.
■ BRITON, the pioneer—the first in the field —to-day, as
BRITON-MAKER OF MEN. £SS?™?fcS
world’s great strong men-still sets the pace—startling new developments make it the most
modern system of body-building in the world. ' . .
Ordinary systems become as old-fashioned as the one-horse shay in c °™P al I Sol ’' , d 'vearsU
accomplishes almost overnight what other systems can never accomplish in months and years.
I’LL MAKE YOU FEEL ALIVE!
I’ll give you a new and wonderful THRILL! I’ll put glorious new LIFE into every cell, nerve
and organ of your body. Man, things happen when I start working on that body of youis• A
they happen FAST. Floods of vitality surge through you your vital organs tune up and sta t
hitting on all six; your muscles begin to GROW. In 30 days you’re a changed man You fed
better and look better than you ever did in your life. Your body has been completely rebu t
you’ll wonder where those big, beautifully-proportioned muscles came tiom! ••
Another MIRACLE IN MUSCLE. Yes, and this time it’s YOU. Just give me a few minutes
a day in your own home —and watch yourself.
I DONT PROMISE ANYTHING
I GUARANTEE to put two inches of solid muscle on your arms; to inca'case your chcst five
inches, to develop your neck to a size larger collar, to add three inches of powe ful d P'
to your thighs; two inches to your calves; to give you a firm, slim waistline' that; 1
you take in a notch or two in your belt. And I don’t ask you T , v „ done
I don’t promise anything—l back every statement with an ironclad GUARANIE .
all this for others. I can do it for you. Get the PROOF—send for my amazing new book-
now ; it’s FREE.
THE GREATEST BOOK IN THE WORLD,
“THE SECRETS OF MUSCULAR STRENGTH.”
It’s FREE. This book will startle you, amaze you. Get it while it is FREE!
ALFRED J. BRITON,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
RIP THIS OUT SEND NOW!
sd
pipiaj'n
IT
IS
Please send me, absolutely free and without any
obligation on my part, a copy of your latest book
“Secrets of Muscular Strength and How to Acquire
It.” I enclose 6d. in stamps for postage.
NAME
PULL ADDRESS
ALFRED J. BRITON,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Dept. H.
(Known throughout the Southern Hemisphere.)
28/8/ 29.
fsd
A Selection of
Books for Art Students
Davies, Six Centuries of Painting. 50 Plates in
Color • • ?6/
Price, Poster Design, new and enlarged edition
Glossop, Advertisement Design, 26/- for ....
Bridgman, Book of a Hundred Hands, 1 9/- for
Farrow, Practical Cartooning for Profit 4/6
Meyer, Handbook of Ornament 20/-
Blake, Art and Craft of Drawing 22/6
Furniss, More About How to Draw in Pen & Ink 6/-
Blake, The Way to Sketch 1 0/'
Sullivan, Line. (An Art Study) 13/6
Lutz, Animated Cartoons. (How They Are
Made, etc.) • • •
Salway, Sketching in Lead-pencil for Architects
and Others 1 Q/"
Morris, Geometrical Drawing for Art Students.
Calder, Animal Sketching
Commercial Art. (Bound Volume, 1928) ...
Commercial Art, Monthly Issues 1/6
Matthews, How to Draw Funny Pictures. (A
Complete Course in Cartooning)
Glass, Sketching from Nature. (A treatise on
pictorial composition) 1 3/6
Glazier, Historic Ornament, New Edition 1 6/-
Hatton, The Principles of Decoration 1 3/6
Browne, How to Draw for the Papers. (Guide
for the young artist) 3/6
Lutz, Drawing Made Easy 2/6
The Artists’ London, seen in 80 contemporary
pictures
Allen, Water-color Painting * 3/o
Bement, Figure Construction 1 °/
Yerbury and Ellwood, Human Form and Its Use
in Art
Hieroglyphic or Greek Method of Life Drawing
Academy Architecture and Architectural Review
vol. 59, 1927
Muybridge, Human Figure in Motion 36/-
Muybridge, Animals in Motion 34/-
Write for Lists on all Technical Subjects.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO., LTD.
TECHNICAL BOOKSHOP,
CASTLEREAGH AND MARKET STREETS, SYDNEY.
Forsters Bedsteads Ltd
MARY ANN STREET, ULTIMO.
(’Phone: M 4247).
Forster's Bedsteads Ltd.
manufactured the first
Hospital Bedstead in
Australia, and are still
manufacturing the finest
Hospital Bedsteads used
throughout the Common-
wealth.
r
F?
Q
A very up-to-date Bedstead used in numerous hospitals through-
out the Commonwealth. Has adjustable back and Hercules
Diamond Wire. Made with 1 Jin. posts. Can be made with
square corners at foot end if required, also lift-out foot end.
fsd
HOSPITAL DRESSING TROLLEY.
Large, easy-running 4in. Castors, ball-
bearing, nickel rail round ends and back of
top. Size of top, 25in. x l Bin. Height from
floor, 38in.
Manufacturers of all kinds of Metallic Beds for the
Household, Hospitals, Ships, Institutions, or for any
special purpose.
Established 1859.
Still leaders of the trade with ranges of new designs.
THE LARGEST PLANT OF ITS KIND IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
Manufacturers also of Wood Beds, Ice Chests, Mattresses, Chairs, also Steel Shelving, Lockers and Cupboards.


facts about
H WMF'* # m m
scotch Whisky f
In a recent press advertisement statements were made, which, if they were to possess any significance at all, would
have to proceed from the premise that all Whisky is of the same quality—whether it happens to have been distilled
in Scotland, or elsewhere.
We, the representatives of the “well-known brands” principally concerned, must state quite plainly that there is no
comparison, either in quality or flavour, between the world-famous products of the fifty distilleries engaged in the
distilling of our Whisky in Scotland and the Whisky produced up to date in any other part of the world.
Our blends are composed of the very finest makes of pure Scotch Whisky only, none of the component parts of
which is of less than five years’ maturity and guaranteed as such by British Excise Warrant, the greater part hav-
ing been stored for eight, ten, and fifteen years in wood; and bottled in bond in Australia, under Commonwealth
Government supervision.
THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN “BLENDED” WHISKY AND A “STRAIGHT” OR
“SINGLE” WHISKY
The Whisky marketed by the five firms whose names appear below is the result of the judicious blending of fully
matured whiskies of differing types —all of which measure up to a very high standard of quality.
A 4 straight ’ or ‘‘single” Whisky such as has been produced in Australia up to the present is an unblended Whisky
it is wholly the product of a single distillery. Time and again efforts have been made to popularise ‘‘straight”
or unblended pot still Whiskies , and always the attempt has met with failure. It is their pre-eminence in the art of
blending, by which alone is produced a flavour that will appeal to the refined palate, that has mainly been respon-
sible for the supremacy of Scotch blends in the markets of the world.
QUALITY ALWAYS COMMANDS ITS PRICE
Most people will agree that quality always commands its price, and apparently the Australian consumer of
Whisky is of that frame of mind, since five out of every six give their preference to Scotch Whisky, despite the
immense superficial advantage enjoyed by the local product in lower selling price to the extent of 4/- per bottle.
RETAIL PRICES OF SCOTCH WHISKIES IN AUSTRALIA
ARE NOT UNFAIRLY HIGH
The statement was made that Australians are paying over 3/- per bottle more for Scotch Whisky than they should
have to pay —and the query was raised, “Where does this difference go?” This statement is absolutely misleading.
The difference is accounted for in terms that will be understood by anyone who knows anything of business.
Scotch Whisky is shipped in bulk from Scotland, and bottled in Australia. The cost in Australia, for reasons that
will be instantly appreciated, must include the following charges, which in themselves form a natural further
protection for the local article:—
FREIGHT,
INSURANCE,
COST OF CASKS
LOSS BY EVAPORATION IN TRANSIT TO,
AND IN BOND IN, AUSTRALIA,
LANDING CHARGES,
ADDITIONAL BOTTLING COSTS IN AUS-
TRALIA, due to higher wages and in-
creased prices of material,
HIGHER RATES OF TRADE DISCOUNT,
HIGHER COSTS OF ADVERTISING,
HIGHER SELLING COSTS.
LAST, but by no means least, is the difference in strength —a point conveniently overlooked in the state-
ment referred to. The bottled strength in Australia is 7 degrees higher than in Great Britain. The increased
strength of Scotch Whisky in Australia means increased value in the contents of each bottle.
WHERE THE “DIFFERENCE” GOES
Obviously the cost of selling any commodity in a sparsely settled country must he higher than in a small, closely-
populated country. Actually, the selling cost per case of Scotch Whisky in Australia is about seven times the per
case cost in Britain.
The whole difference in cost is caused by conditions incidental to the sale of imported Whisky in Australia. But
it must he remembered that the whole of this extra money is spent in Australia. It goes to the Australian Govern-
ment —Australian manufacturers and their employees —our own Australian employees, and Australian wholesale
and retail distributors.
DUTY THE MAIN ITEM
We would like to sell Scotch Whisky at lower prices than it is possible for us to do at present. We have enough
business sense to know that the lower the price of Scotch Whisky the more of it will be sold, and if we were to
get any relief from the present high cost in the shape of duty we can promise that the price will come down. Per-
haps the authors of the advertisement which has evoked this statement, in their anxiety to protect the Australian
public, will endeavour to have the duty on imported Whiskies lowered.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD.,
“Black & White” Whisky
THE DISTILLERS AGENCY LTD.,
“King George IV.” Whisky
JOHN DEWAR & SONS LTD.,
“Dewar’s” Whisky
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD.
“Johnnie Walker” Whisky
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS LTD.,
“White Horse” Whisky


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Piit & Bridge Streets, *
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident and Sickness,
Burglary, Plate Glass, Pub-
lic P.isk, Boiler Explosion,
Workers’ Compensation,
etc., etc.
VICHY
OME3
VICHY WATER
“CELESTINS”
Owned and Guaranteed Genuine by
French Government.
Taken regularly, will ensure perfect action
of Liver and Kidneys, which means more
enjoyment out of life and greater efficiency
in business and sport.
Imitations being on the market,
Do Not Be Misled—lnsist on Celestins.
Obtainable Everywhere. *
Sole Australian Agent:
M. PELLETIER, 16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
OE.
ICAO'S
The Sign of
QUALITY
The Wunderlich Trademark is
a sign of quality it is your
guarantee of sterling value in
the following materials:—
Art Metal Ceilings, Terra Cotta
Roofing Tiles, Asbestos Cement
(Durabestos) Building Sheets.
Look for the trademark on these
products, when you purchase.
WUNDERLICH
LIMITED
Baptist Street, Redfern, Sydney
Branches in all States
ABORIGINALITIES
“Pfella”: My nor’-western tracker
Sammy could tell by the smoke what sort
of stuff was burning miles away. “Smoke
bin different.” was his only explanation
when asked how he knew. Once we were
tracing a man’s movements in Westralia’s
vast empty spaces, and camped one night in
country which had never seen us before. In
the distance a line of fire crept slowly
towards a dark gloomy range. For a few
hours we sat smoking and watching the
glowing and fading of flames, Sammy nam-
ing the bush or timber as it flared. Then
STRAIGHT FROM THE STABLE.
TABBY CAT: “Someone’s taken the canary.”
TORTOISESHELL: “How do you know?”
TABBY CAT (licking his lips): “I’ve got inside information.”
suddenly he stiffened. “Sheepskin bin burn,
boss,” he declared, and I told him not to
be a fool. But next morning he led me to
the charred remains of skins about three
miles from our camp. “I bin smell him,” he
said simply.
l|C v “*'
“Mac”: The native Fijian has a wit of
his own. This was evidenced a few days
ago when the examiner was putting an appli-
cant for a captain’s certificate through his
paces. The Fijian was asked, “If you were
on a lee shore and the wind was fresh, what
would you do?” “Put out the port anchor,”
came the reply. “Yes, and suppose that more
wind came?” “I would put out the star-
board anchor. “Yes, and suppose more
wind came, what would you do?” The native
smiled and said, “I would put out another
anchor.” “But where would you get the
other anchor?” came the query. The Fijian
paused but a moment, and then rejoined,
“Where would you get the other wind?”
s** ' *
“Cebin”: The small, crab-like fish-parasite
mentioned by recent correspondents is prob-
ably the same as is found frequently in the
little fish inhabit-
ing coastal rivers
and estuaries, and
known to fisher-
men as “yellow-
tail.” The com-
mon leatherjacket
also sometimes har-
bors a parasite. In
the case of this
fish, the parasite
belongs to a dif-
ferent species,
which, unlike the
small crab-like
creature found in
trevalli, selects a
spot near the stom-
ach of the fish for
its home. I caught
a leatherjacket near
Bateman’s Bay,
N.S.W. South
Coast, that carried
one of these para-
sites. Whilst dis-
engaging the fish
from the hook I
noticed a peculiar
lump under the
skin near the belly.
Examination dis-
closed a queer
creature firmly em-
bedded in the flesh.
In appearance it
resembled a soldier-
crab, but it was
soft. How it got under the leathery skin is
a mystery, and how it lived is another.
**> * *
“Homfrey Beale”: There is, on a tree near
the Second Lagoon at Walgett (N.S.W.),
an eagle-hawk’s nest which has between
400 and 500 small birds’ nests built into its
crevices. The big nest has been there for
well over 20 years, and has been occupied
each season by a pair of eagles. Not far
from Confrey’s Tank, near Naradhun
(N.S.W.), is a similar eagle’s nest with
nearly as many small ones clinging to it. It
has been there since T 9, when I first saw it,
and like the other is repaired and added to
each season. The opinion of most bush
naturalists is that the big owners don’t
accord protection to the smaller fry, but
suffer their society because they know dashed
well that any interference would result in
a concerted attack. They therefore prefer
to dine off lamb or the progeny of birds that
aren’t knowing enough to utilise massed
mation as a defensive weapon.
:!= s|'- *
“K.P.”: Though a recent answer to a
“Service” querist states that experts con-
sider it. “hardly probable” that a fox could
kill a full-sized wether, such a thing
has. I think, occurred. Before the sub-
division of Marrar estate, a flock of fat
weaner wethers was grassed between the
homestead and the manager’s house. During
the night they were disturbed, and stam-
peded about a mile and a half. On the
way 10 were pulled down and killed. The
sheep were skinned next morning, and
showed no marks around the throat or
legs, but each had a hole bored into the
flank, through to the caul-fat. The killer
was believed to be a fox, which had got a
good hold and hung on until the sheep
dropped, after which lie ate his way in. A
HE COULD FEEL THE TEETH.
“Cold snap this morning, Jacky!”
“Snap? Mine tinkit it plurry bite.”
bait of fat and strychnine was laid, and
accounted for a large red fellow. Certainly,
if it was a fox’s work, lie was a bit of an
innovator. Usually, when lamb-killing, he
makes a puncture in the throat and eats
out the tongue.
* * * *
“Spadger”: Little enterprise in the matter
of Christian names was shown by the
clan Riordan in a central tableland dis-
trict of N.S.W. The patriarchs were James,
Edward and Michael, and for' close on a
hundred years the collaterals and cadets
have had the same brands put on them.
Popular usage, though, has given various
twists and turns to the old names—-“ Long
Jim,” “Red Jim,” “Black Jim” and “Barcoo
Jim” (a wanderer) ; “Ned,” “Eddie” and
“Red Ed’s Ted” ; “Rabbit Mick,” “Kangaroo
Mick” and “Young Mick” all own farms in
the district, and you have to be a Riordan
to remember the relationships between them.
But even the Riordan s move with the times.
The latest male addition to the family has
been christened Mervyn Roland.
* * * *
“Atherton”: One of the most unique bands
in the world soothes the savage breast at
the Lutheran Mission by Salamau Bay
(Mandated Territory). There are 17
instruments, each a conch-shell of different
tone. It took the missioner 12 years
to collect shells of perfect pitch. They
came from all over the South Pacific. The
score is written not in notes, but in numbers,
and each player has his number and his
note. The performers are mostly. Morabe
tribesmen. They revel in hymns, but have
been known to indulge in such lively ditties
as “A Life on the Ocean Wave.”
* * * *
“The Rumpus” : Dates do become insignifi-
cant in the bush. I remember cobbering-up
with a man on the far-back reaches of the
Ashburton (W.A.) just after he’d returned
from a trip to Perth. The months slipped
by without notice, until one mail-arrival day
I happened to mention the date on a month-
old Bulletin. My mate swung round as if
he’d been shot and snatched the paper from
my hand. “Slitherin’ snakes!” he burst out.
“I promised I’d be in Perth to-day!”
Straightway he packed up his few things,
borrowed a station horse and rode down-
river. At Onslow he had to wait seven
days for a steamer, and he raged like a
lion at the delay. Later, and by tedious
process, I received a wire: “Got married.
Not coming back. Wife will not agree.”
* * * :!*
“Huffin-Guffin”: Our Australian jackass
and magpie are real dinkum Aussies. I
have both redgum and Pirms insignia in my
wood-heap. When I am chopping the Aus-
tralian wood Jack and Maggie stand by ready
for any grubs, etc., that may be exposed.
As soon as I start on the pine, they go
away. “That’s no good to us,” they say.
If I go back to the gum, they return at
once. And I must be careful to give each
bird an alternate titbit. If I don’t the
neglected one will snap at the other
viciously. Of the two, Jack is the more pug-
nacious. He gets in his work very slyly
and quietly. Mag will stand aside and, with
liis beak in the air, let forth a song of
defiance. There is no mistaking Mag’s
meaning.
“Eureka”: Near Bemboka, South Coast
(N.S.W.), there are two hills thickly covered
with timber. Every tree has at some
time or other been struck by lightning. Box,
stringybark, ironbark —all have suffered.
The old belief that the wild apple-tree is
immune has been shattered effectively. A
telegraph-line from Nimmitabel passed over
one of these hills and until lightning con-
ductors were added every telegrapli-pol)
they put up was struck. The belief in the
district is that the hills contain large
deposits of iron, a belief which is emphasised
by the fact that compasses play all sorts
of strange pranks in this locality.
* * $ *
“Coot”: Re the argument whether trees
carry marks upwards as they grow (B.
31/7/’29). In the Fitzroy Gardens, within
a few yards of Melbourne’s city boundary,
is an ancient redgum, out of whose bark a
large canoe had been cut by the Yarra tribe
of blacks, no doubt many years before Bat-
man arrived. The excision starts about a
foot from the ground, and so evidently is
at the same height as it was when Brother
Stanley Melbourne Binghi made it.
* * * *
“Mulgo”: Very few swagmpn peddle on
the track; the swag is burden enough for
most of them. The exceptions are green-
hide workers, who plait whips, bridles,
halters, belts and hatbands, and sell them
to stockmen and drovers; “Waterbags,”
who carries a roll of canvas and makes bags,
with the neck of a bottle for mouthpiece;
“Horns-and-Hoofs,” who polishes bullocks’
horns and horse and bovine hoofs, often
carrying samples on topi of his bundle; and
the woodcarver, who makes stockwhip-
handles and needlewood pipes. One carving
genius lobbed at a shed with a lump of
needlewood strapped to the pack. The mat-
erial wasn’t procurable in the district, and
he wasn’t happy if he hadn’t something to
carve when in camp. He was Whittling
Tommy.
# * =l= *
“Uramao”: There are good grounds for
the M.L. Government’s hesitancy to permit
Commander Byrd’s huskies to be removed
from isolation and taken to Mount Cook and
worked amid the snow in preparation for
the job ahead in Antarctica. Despite their
apparent friendly disposition, these huskies
(any breed of dog crossed with a wolf) are
not to be trusted. The Canterbury College
School of Forestry (M.L.) has been, digging
up their record, which includes the killing
of a sergeant’s wife, the eating of two child-
ren at Baker Lake and several attacks on
Eskimos and gangs working them.
(Continued on page 25.)
SPUDS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As I rode one Sabbath day
By a field of new-mown hay
Stooked and basking in the balmy morning
sun,
I was startled by a cry
That went cleaving to the sky:
“ ’Eads a ’undred —I’ll bet ’eads with any-
one !”
As by instinct I drew rein
At this sound of sordid gain
Where the cereal and fruitful tuber rule,
I soon became apprised
That a stack had been devised
To mask the operations of a “school.”
“Tails a ’undred,” came reply,
And the coppers soared on high,
Though the hand that swung the kip I
couldn’t see,
But a hundred at a toss
Put my fancy at a loss,
And I wondered who the plutocrats could be.
Then my old prad gave a snort
That cut proceedings short,
And soon a head appeared above the top,
While a voice called out my name
Saying: “Come and ’ave a game.
Sparc me days, we thought yer might ’ave
been the cop.”
So I climbed down from my horse,
Just to see a game in course,
Where a man could do a hundred in a throw,
And I must have shown surprise
When the vision met my ( yes
Of a ring of cockies, twenty-five or so.
Someone asked me if I’d play,
But I said : “Some other day
When hundred quids arc made like washing-
suds.”
Then the “boxer” with a grin
Said: “We never play fer tin—
A ’undred means a ’undredweight uv spuds.”
N.S.W.
FRED AARONS.


wo
1
%
h\
y?
ilm
V;
//
m
«
m
%
'/'A
mm
Jr.
?%
Jkw.
it
''z.o/rvt
c c
3. o^.
,,j.
§
mm.
"/Ma
1 1
[h|Tm
1 1
1 1
-!-
11l
♦ • <y»
• i
Supplied
by
'Z&umk
.x
::::x:.:
aaa&s
■m.™
-?-wy^sv
* y/ttTxi:
i
m
W:
I
m
■•■v.-.v. 1 . 1 .;:-
o
tej
■•.•■■■•'
5)
8000 GARAGES
STOCK THEM
NOTHING BETTER
THAN
A GOOD DAY
WITH
DUNLOP
‘MAX FLI’
THE WORLD’S FINEST
GOLF BALL
If you could see
all the processes and
stages involved in the
manufacture of a Dunlop
tyre you would appreciate
that Rubber and Fabric .. .
however good ... are only in-
gredients. The huge batteries
of mills... calenders... moulds...
vulcanisers ... would interest
you . . . but again, they are
only a means to an end.
The all important factor is the
invisible 40 years experience
. . . knowledge . . . that enables
Dunlop to employ the right means
to assure the desired results.
It is this unparalleled knowledge
. . . built into tyres by Dunlop . . .
that results in the outstanding
strength...durability...and trouble-
free service that legions of Aus-
tralian motorists are enjoying.
* * *
Really pleasing tyre service
is assured when you fit
Dunlop! They cost no more.


>Noo\
pwtotosito
Carsor\
The
Words
on the
Bale
are brimful of wisdom. The action they indicate
produces satisfaction for growers. Hence the wide
popularity of Winchcombe, Carson as selling brokers,
Close supervision of each client’s wool by the
management is an outstanding force in the firm’s
work. Write
WINCHCOMBE,CARSON
LTD.
Winchcombe House, Bridge Street,
Sydney, or 99-101 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
They Satisfy
because they are made from 100
per cent, pure Virginia tobacco,
thoroughly matured. “Greys
have a reputation they cannot
afford to lose; they are therefore
consistent in their perfect quality.
“Greys” protect your palate and
leave no after taste. Let your
next smoke be a “GREYS.”
fiaxXf,
m
m
m
m
5S
P'HEGREYS^
SIZE nT WO
SILK CUT VIRGINIA
DRAP
tO NOON
EYS
1® for <J)dl. CIGARETTES 2® for JL/&
Of course you
know “Greys
Heavyweights’’
are now 1/- for
10; 2/- for 20.
PEAPES
Clothe men AND their sons.
Distinction marks every
article bought at PEAPES,
because PEAPES, concentrating
solely on men’s and boys’ needs,
are ever seeking the new and
unusual.
At PEAPES, one obtains better
QUALITY, better VALUE,
better SERVICE at a definite
low price,
George Street,
Opp. Hunter Street,
Sydney,
“Tuppence”: It is doubtful if tlie abori-
ginals ever lived permanently on any of the
islands off the Queensland coast. That they
visited them more or less regularly is cer-
tain. On South Molle Island there is a peak,
Mt. Whiriba, which means something about
stone-axes. On that peak there are literally
tons and tons of flint chips which the blacks
of the long ago made in fashioning stone
tomahawks. But so far as this part of
Queensland is concerned Binghi is only a
memory. In his day he apparently couldn't
live in comfort without a good red-meat diet.
Fish, crabs, oysters and other delicacies were
right enough for a snack. But when it came
to solid tucker, the red meat had to find a
place in the menu or Binghi had to get out.
* * * Hs
“G.8.L.”: Add Narrabeen to the list of
Australian towns named after abos. (B.
17/7/’29). It keeps green the memory of a
young lubra who raced frantically to Syd-
ney for aid when an early settler named
Reynolds was in great danger of being
murdered. The soldiers arrived too late,
however. Monarto (S.A.) commemorates
a local lubra. Beeac (Vic.) was named
THROWIN’ MONEY AWAY.
“Tak’ a week’s notice, Brown. There’s a blot in, your ledger on page foor-r nin'ty-two.
I’ll no ha’e a clerk who’s sac wasteful wi’ the ink.”
after a lawless binghi chief. Beeac led
his wild followers in a raid on a white set-
tlers’ camp, and, finding only an African
negro named Samson present, he plundered
the place and had Samson severely flogged.
Pursuit followed, and Beeac was found
hiding in a tree. Samson identified him and
he was then flogged in his turn, after which
he had great respect for the white men.
“Trefaldwyn”: One of the prizes of the
Outback, especially the outermost stations,
is a good maid. Even a not-too-good one
or an untried cleanskin can almost auction
her services. I worked once for a widower
who had suffered much through neighbors
outbidding him for helps. At last he went
secretly about getting a girl from Syd-
ney by means of an ad. and an agent.
The first treasure travelled by mail-car with
a publican from a township 50 miles up
the road —and continued the journey under
contract to the publican; the second was
captured by a neighboring squatter as she
stepped from the service-car; a third was
retained by the widower’s own son who drove
into the railway for her. At last there
arrived a widow with three hitherto unre-
ported children. Despite this handicap, she
had so many offers awaiting her that only
re-marriage would hold her. My man was
the re-marrier; he had no other hope!
* * # *
“Dimon” : A gin’s dillybag usually contains
a queer collection of trifles. The treasures
include bits of glass, cord and sinews, gum
and pigments, seed necklaces, combs made
from the backbones of fish, turtle-shell cups,
crude dolls belonga piccaninny, bone needles
or awls, scraps of tobacco and tucker, roots
and herbal remedies. Any small useful
article gets into the dillybag. Mary is always
collecting, and some of the gleanings are
carried for years. One curiosity 1 saw in
a dillybag was a pair of child’s moccasins
made of emu feathers stuck together with
blood. They had belonged to a daughter,
now grown up, who had tender, feet through
a burning accident, and used to wear them
for protection in burry and stony country.
* * * *
“Mulyan”: The fox has reached the
Tweed River. (N.S.W.), and there is little
to stop him from going right north. Once
established in the wild northern regions,
where game awaits him in great abundance,
he will be. able to breed almost unchecked.
The pest originated in Victoria, penetrated
South. Aus. years ago, and is now active
in parts of Westralia. It was thought that
the great Nullabor Plain would stop him,
but it didn’t.
* *
“Jimsey”: Although quail are noted for
their extremely short flights, they can do
better. On Cabbage Tree Island, a grass-
covered speck just outside the heads of Port
Stephens (N.S.W.), I recently flushed a
pair of brown quail from among the _ long
grass. As Cabbage Tree is about If mile in
a direct line from the nearest land, I was
a bit doubtful about the birds being quail,
but later in the day I again scared them
and verified my first opinion. Incidentally,
the only other birds on the island were a
few terns, pelicans and mutton-birds.
* si: * * '
“Up Top” : The expression “humping the
drum” is of respectable antiquity. I can
trace it back to the Canoona (Q.) rush.
When the Crocodile field was booming, gold
was located on Morinish station. The pros-
pectors were the Smith brothers; the find
in 1566. Morinish township sprang up like
a mushroom. On Williams Gully, which
was exceptionally shallow and rich, there
worked a certain Alick Forbes, brother of
the well-known Archibald, war correspon-
dent. Alick was something of a poet: a
book of his was published, . “Voices from
DIDN’T WANT HER TO THINK HE’D FORGOTTEN HIS MANNERS
SISTER (writing letter for patient to his wife after the accident “up to the mine”) :
“Anything more you want me to say?”
SI TREMAINE: “No, there eddent; but you’ll finish, her off, won’t ’ee—'Opm this
finds you same as it leaves me at present.
the Bush.” When Morinish collapsed in
the early ’seventies, the digger-poet downed
his pick and wailed:
Weep, Morinish, weep, the hour has come
When Alick has to hump his drum.
He went south and died in Maryborough.
* *
“Hamer”: An old employee of Anthony
Horderns tells the sad story of .Terry, the
cat who had a mechanical mind. Jerry was
a well-known identity in the Sydney Hay-
market emporium in the days be-
fore the fire wiped out the mass
of piecemeal-acquired buildings,
and he early discovered how to use
the goods-lift, which had no door,
to get from floor to floor. It would
climb the side of the lift-well, or
the lift, to touch the button it
wanted. On the night of the big
lire the cat was on the upper floor,
and efforts were made to throw it
down to a sheet held below, but
Jerry, spitting and struggling,
escaped from the hands of would-
be rescuers. He was determined to
go down the lift. It was supposed
that he was burnt to death,
although hope was inspired by the
discovery of the charred remains of
the lift on the ground floor with
its .steel cables still intact. One
day, after the building had been
restored and again inhabited, an
emaciated cat put in its appearance
and was petted and fed. It was
later found dead in a lift which
had not yet been put in order. The
theory is that it was Jerry who
returned, and that, finding his old
means of elevating himself to the
higher floors failed to work, he died
of a broken heart, or possibly of
exhaustion through frantic attempts
to set the lift moving.
* * *
“Salambo”: What material is
least affected by the ravages of
time? I give my vote for ivory, or
whatever it is that teeth are made
of. A fossilised shark’s tooth found
in limestone in the Auckland Province
(M.L.) is said by geologists to* be over a
million years old. It is about an inch and
a half long and broken off at the base ; It is
in perfect condition and is from the jaws of
an extinct species of shark.
* * * *
“Sea Nomad”: The finding of a Ma State
committee of inquiry on the shark menace,
that the immunity of dress-divers from attack
is due more to their unappetising appearance
than to the flash of bubbles from their hel-
met, almost hits the mark, but not quite.
In the Coral Seas a shark will often circle
around the diver at a distance, drawing
gradually closer and closer. A cheeky speci-
men will eventually nose right up to him. A
stream of bubbles from his sleeve cuff or
from the air escape valve on his helmet, and
the shark almost kinks its spine in its con-
vulsive back-kick to escape. But such
bubbles continually bursting from a line ot
pipes across a beach would lack the terror
of the unexpected. The sharks’ curiosity
would lure them closer and closer —and
familiarity breeds contempt.
* * *
“Blue G.”: The black-and-white magpie
is a hardy little beggar and takes some kill-
ing, but lately he has been turning up his
toes in considerable numbers on the Nonaro
tablelands (N.5.W.).. The long-continued
severe frosts have driven his natural food,
the grub and worm, too far underground for
him to snap, and he is too proud to scrape
for his tucker. So he folds up his wings
and dies. .The jackass has also acquired
the habit, but in smaller numbers.
* S’* *
“Ida D.”: “John E.’s” abo. skeleton in
which the teeth were perfect (B. 31/7/’29)
reminds me that one of the stockmen on
Cashmere West station (St. George, Q.)
found an abo. skull in a hollow tree which
had fallen. He brought it to the house,
where it was decided that it must have been
well over 40 years in the tree. But it had
the full complement of 32 teeth still firmly
fixed in the jaws, and each one quite sound.
* =l= *
“Dimon”: A Richmond River (N.S.W.)
farmer was after ’possums with a muzzle-
loader in a private preserve at the back of
his selection. He carried pieces of paper in
his pocket for wadding, but forgot in liis
enthusiasm that he also carried a five-pound
note, having that afternoon returned from
town; and next morning he discovered that
he had shot it away. A half-day’s search
among the trees and grass resulted in the
recovery of only a few valueless scraps. A
week afterwards lie was fined £s_ for having
five ’possum skins in liis possession.
♦ * * *
“The Hippogryph” : You can get used to
anything. Working for a share-cocky on
the lower Murray I noticed at each meal
(bread and mutton varied by mutton and
bread) that, though young, well-grown and
tender, the meat was always slightly “high.”
It wasn’t quite tainted; merely “gamey” with
the gaminess associated with a hare or phea-
sant in England. At last Mum explained.
The meat, she said, was quite fresh and
good, but they had had a bit of bad luck
with the brine cask. One hot week a whole
pickling had “gone crook” and the resultant
taint had permeated the very wood of the
barrel, and all succeeding picklings were
affected. (It had apparently struck no one
to get a new cask.) But these were hungry
harvesting days. When at the end of the
season I changed to another job, the mutton
ration there seemed insipid stuff by com-
parison.
NIGHT SHIFT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They’ve gone and cut the daylight off from
me—
“ We’re putting you.on night shift, Blank,’
they said,
"Your job's best' done when work is slack,
you see.”
I saw, and God ! I’d ’most as soon be dead !
No rising sun to meet me on my way .
To catch the early train, no friendly
noise
Of bread-carts rattling off to start their day,
No grinning greeting from the milk-o boys!
Our little ways must alter. Household life
Will change completely. Each of us must
keep
So silent always; I shall hear my wife
Call “Hush, you children. Mind, your
dad’s asleep!”
Oh well, I’ll still have Sunday in the light,
One day a week on which the curse will
lift
From off the head of this poor troglodyte,
A pay-roll unit, Thomas Blank, night
shift.
N.S.W.
SPADGER.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is
to attach the coupon from the inside back cover of
last Bulletin to hand.
Readers obliging with replies need not attach
coupons.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wai*ted to sell” or “to let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
To buy Hull’s “Stamps of N.S.W.” and “Stamps
of Tasmania.”—l9lB.
To buy “The Adventures of Mr. Barnes,” by Alf
Brasch.—l924.
To buy “Scapegoats of the Empire.”-—1892.
To buy books, etc., describing cycling tours around
or across Australia.—lss6.
To buy stamps ; Canberras, Blue Kookaburras and
Air Mail issues specially wanted. (To P. Bock,
Olaypans, via Mannum, S.A.)
To buy following Henry Lawson first editions:
“Verses Popular and Humorous” (1900), “In the
Bays When the World Was Wide” (large paper
edition, 1896), “While the Billy Boils” (1896),
“Selected Poems” (1918), “Joseph’s Dream” (1923),
“The Auld Shop and the New” (1923) and “Short
Stories in Prose and Verse” (1894) ; also, Lawson
manuscripts.—lBB4.
By Maorilander, engine-driver, loco., traction and
stationary, job in Australia. —1877.
By married couple, Sydney, light work; wife, any
capacity, few hours daily; husband, car-washing or
waitering, week-ends. Befs. —1872.
Proprietor of first-class business in wool, sheep-
skins, hides, rabbitskins, Sydney, seeks partner
with capital. Experience not necessary if willing
to learn. —1919.
Vic. gentleman would give tuition at home to
backward boys, any age, all subjects.—l 937.
Two young men (20) and (23) want jobs as
stockmen or general hands on cattle or sheep station.
Go anywhere in Australia.—l 927.
Name and address of agents for Kynoch gas
lantern.—lBBl.
Samples and prices of pulp made from waste
material. —1842.
Quotes for cost of typing MS. of novel (one
carbon copy) for Sydney author. —1895.
To correspond with readers interested in rabbit-
or other fur-farming projects.—l9o2.
Whex-eabouts of Fred Scott, son of Philip Scott,
from Ossett, Yorks, England. Last heard of at
Ballarat.—lBBB.
Information Sought.
(1) Best motor-cycle route to Canberra
after leaving Albury? (2) Distance from
Melbourne to Canberra? (3) From Canberra
to Sydney? (4) From Sydney to Melbourne
via coast road? (5) Would these routes be
in passable condition for a motor-cycle in
the first two weeks of September? —lBs2.
(1) The most used route is via Holbrook,
Gundagai, Jugiong and Bowning to Yass,
thence through Murrumbateman and Hall to
Canberra. (2) Via Albury and Yass, 433
miles. (3) 210 miles. (4) Via Prince’s
Highway, 719 miles. (5) The routes men-
tioned very seldom become impassable except
after very heavy rain. The N.R.M.A. Touring-
Department will supply further information
on the return trip along Prince’s Highway
if you call whilst in Sydney.
What are the principal reasons for expedi-
tions to the North and South Poles? Is
there any literature I could get on the sub-
ject?— 583.
Apart from the spirit of adventure which
makes men explore dangerous unknown lands
—a spirit that enters more or less into all
polar exploration—the polar regions hold
the key v to many scientific problems related
to meteorology and navigation. Also there
is reason to believe that they contain rich
mineral deposits. The scientific equipment
of modern expeditions in these regions is
elaborate and extensive, and the purposes of
the Byrd, Wilkins and Mawson expeditions,
to. mention three projected or in progress
this year, are almost entirely scientific and
utilitarian. There is a vast literature on
the subject of polar exploration, dealing with
every aspect of such work. The various
records of the Scott and Shackleton Antarc-
tic expeditions, popular and scientific, are
about the most up-to-date published in Eng-
lish.
(1) Is a Government subsidy granted to
miners prospecting for precious metals in
N.T.? (2) Fare from Melbourne to Pine
Creek, by way of steamer to Darwin?
(3) What are the main preventive measures
against malaria in N.T., and what chance
would a prospector stand of picking , up the
disease at Pine Creek? —1446.
(1) Under the Commonwealth Precious
Metals Prospecting Aet provision is made
for assistance to prospectors to search for
gold, silver and other precious metals. Appli-
cation form and full particulars can be
obtained from Dept, of Home and Territories,
Canberra. (2) Melbourne to Darwin, first-
class single, £25; second-class single, £l6
15s. To Pine Creek, first-class single,
335. 6d.: second-class single, 225. 2d. (3)
Careful use of mosquito nets when sleeping,
and protection of the body surface at other
times. There is very little risk of contracting
malaria in Pine Creek. By application to
the medical authorities in Darwin informa-
tion can be obtained as to details of pre-
cautionary measures, including the use of
quinine as a preventive.
(1) What laics govern the protection of
birds, animals and fish in the Federal Capi-
tal Territory? (2) What birds and animals
arc protected? (3) When is the close season
for fishing? (4) Does the Federal Govern-
ment breed fish? —1610.
(I) Animals and Birds Protection Ordi-
nances (Nos. 1 of 1928 and 8 of 1928) ; the
Animals and Birds Protection Ordinance
notice in the Commonwealth Govern-
AiENT Gazette, Nov. 24, 1921; the Fish Pro-
tection Ordinance (No. 2 of 1929) and the
Fish Protection (Close Season) Regulations,
copies of which may be purchased from the
Federal Capital Commission. (2) All ani-
mals and birds are protected, with the excep-
tion of hares, rabbits, native dogs, foxes,
tiger cats, native cats, flying foxes, venomous
snakes, all domestic pests and parasites, spar-
rows, starlings, lorikeets (including all fruit-
eating parrakeets), crows, silvereyes and cor-
morants. (3) All fish are protected from
April 14 (or the Wednesday after Easter,
whichever is the later) until Oct. 31 in each
year; in the Murrumbidgee and Molongio
rivers the period of protection in respect of
Murray cod, trout cod, golden perch, silver
perch, Macquarie perch, catfish and river
blackfish is extended each year to Nov. 30.
(4) The F.C.O. has a standing arrange-
ment with the N.S.W. Fisheries Department,
and fish have been released from time to
time. It is hoped to considerably re-stock
the rivers by a further release this season.
What opportunity exists for a lad nearly
15 years old, residing at Macksvillc
( N.8.W.), who has completed 1| years at
a technical school and is skilled in drawing
(mechanical) and woodwork? —1684.
He might endeavor to get an apprentice-
ship in one of the woodworking trades —
carpentry and joinery, cabinet-making, pat-
tern-making, motor-body building or rail and
road carriage-building. Unfortunately oppor-
tunities for apprenticing boys in any of
the skilled trades are very scarce at present.
If the boy calls at the Vocational Guidance
Bureau, Dept, of Education, Sydney, he can
be examined to test his capabilities, and _as
far as possible will be assisted in obtaining
suitable employment.
(1) What quantities each of white-lead,
raw oil, turps and drier would it take to
paint a weatherboard cottage 40 ft. long, 30 ft.
wide and 10 ft. high? (2) What would be a
good drier to use?- —1701.
(1) For one coat: 421 b. white lead in oil,
If gallon raw linseed oil, turps., j*-
pint pale terebine." Mixed, these would pro-
vide a good full-bodied white paint, which
for first coat work could be further reduced
with either oil or turps, according to nature
and condition of surface to be painted. (2)
Pale terebine for white paint and ordinary
terebine (which is slightly darker) for colors.
Is there an Australian Ornithologists’
Association? If so, how can I become a
member? —lB23.
Yes; Royal Australasian Ornithologists’
Union; headquarters, 168 Latrobe-stroet,
Melbourne, C.l. You can become a member
through the N.S.W. branch ; secretary, N. W.
Cayley, Myriam, Collins-avenue, Rose Bay.
(1) When was a settlement of the dispute
bettoecn the Vatican and the Italian Govern-
ment arrived at. (2) What was the basis of
the settlement -1926.
(1) February 11, 1929. (2) The Italian
Government recognises the sovereignty of the
Holy See in a small part of Rome—now
known as the City of the Vatician —and
agrees to pay 750,000,000 lire in cash and
1,000,000,000 lire in Italian 5 per cent. State
bonds as compensation for the loss of tem-
poral power in 1870.
Representative books on Australian abo.
folk-lore? —1784.
Peck’s “Australian Legends and Tales”
11925) ; Thomas’s “Myths and Legends of
Australian Aborigines” (1923) ; Basedow’s
“Australian Aborigines” (1925) ; Spencer
and Gillen’s “The Arunta” (1927) ; Mrs.
Gunn’s “Little Black Princess; and Mrs.
Langloh Parker’s “Australian Legendary
Tales” and “More Australian Legendary
Tales.”
(1) Chances of a stockman securing a job
in North Aus.? (2) Best time to look?
(3) Where to apply for work? (4) Second-
class steamer fare Sydney to Darwin? (5)
Usual wages paid?— lBs9.
(1) A good horseman who understands
cattle and is used to the bush always stands
a fair chance. (2) March or April. (3)
Direct to N.T. stations; Northern Agency
Ltd., Darwin, could probably advise likely
stations to apply. (4) £l6 15s. (5) £3 per
week and found.
(1) Any gearless cars in Britain? (2)
What is the new invention used by the Lon-
don omnibuses and the War Office? (3) Is
it the same as the self-changing gears in
Armstrong-Siddeley cars P—l77o.
(1) No, except, of course, steam-engined
cars. Various people are experimenting with
a view to developing satisfactory gearless
cars, the most notable device so far brought
to light being the Constantinesco torque con-
verter. None of them are in production on
a commercial scale. (2) and (3) No infor-
mation is available regarding any new inven-
tion of the nature suggested, unless ’buses
with petrol-electric drive be considered as
gearless vehicles. Such ’buses have been in
use in London for nearly 20 years.
A Sydney suburban, council has decided to
concrete the paths in front of my house. The
existing path (asphalt) has been paid for.
Ain I liable for my frontage of concrete? —
1480.
Depends upon whether the new concrete;
paving legally constitutes a new work or a
“renewal or repair” of the original path-
way. If it is a renewal or repair you are
not liable. Place your case before the coun-
cil and avoid ‘going to law. The council will
probably meet you equitably.
(1) Wliat openings are there for a coun-
try girl in Sydney factories, and what are
the wages and conditions? (2) Could an
Australian girl easily secure a position as a
domestic upon an American ranch? —1679.
(1) There are openings in many factories
for girls 16-18; over 18, as machinists in
clothing factories. Conditions and wages
vary, and without some information as to
the class of employment desired it is impos-
sible to furnish details. (2) No; and the
number of Australians who may enter U.S.A.
annually for the purpose of taking up resi-
dence there is very small. Better drop the
notion.
Could you recommend a handbook giving
a novice practical information as to pros-
pecting for and trying quartz reefsf —1912.
Technical training or practical experi-
ence is essential; get in touch with an experi-
enced prospector. Meanwhile a copy of
“Guide Book for Prospectors” can be obtained
from the Department of Mines, N.S.W.;
Is. 2d. posted.
A has a lease of a property at £52 p.a., which
he has sub-leased to B for eight years.- —£lB2
p.a. for 24 years, £204 p.a. for next 3 years
and £260 p.a. for final 2$ years. If X pur-
chased A's interest for £lOOO what average
return per annum by way of interest on his
investment would he receive? What would
be the total amount of credit at end of eight
years if rent received each month were de-
posited with N.S.W. Government Savings
Bank? —l9ll.
On the figures given X would receive an
average return of £162 12s. Od. per annum, or
16.26 p.c. If lie deposited his rent as stated,
his balance at the end of eight years would
amount to approximately £1485 15s. 3d. Of
this amount, £lB3 10s. 3d is represented by
interest added by the bank. The maximum
balance on which interest is paid is £100(1,
and this balance would be reached early in the
seventh year. The balance accumulated would
be affected slightly by the dates on which
deposits are made.
How to darken and polish a golden oak
table? I want to stain it mission color and
yet keep the grain visible? —l7os.
Constant polishing with a paste made
of beeswax dissolved in turpentine, to which
is added a little of any good wood stain,
will darken the table. For a quicker result,
remove the varnish or present finish by
washing with a strong solution of wash-
ing soda and hot water, and scrubbing with
a sharp brush. If only lightly finished, the
same result can be attained by rubbing well
with a mixture of methylated spirits and
kerosene, equal parts. When clean and dry,
rub in a stain made by dissolving walnut
crystals in hot water ; the crystals are
procurable from paint shops, and the desired
tint can be made by using more or less
water, trying the stain on the wood until
the right shade is secured. When dry, polish
with beeswax and turpentine or any good
furniture polish.
(1) Where is the head office, N.S.W., of
the N.R.M.A.? (2) Hold can one join that
organisation as a patrol mechanic? 1 (3)
Age limits? (4) Salary? (5) Where to
apply?—l744.
(1) 26 Grosvenor-street, Sydney. (2) By
making application, satisfying the require-
ments of the Chief Guide in the matter of
mechanical knowledge, etc., and thereafter
awaiting a vacancy. (3) No age is fixed.
The staff at present varies in age from 20
to 52. (4) A weekly allowance of from
£3 10s. to £5, plus commission, uniform and
transport. (5) Interview the Chief Guide
at patrol headquarters, 166 George-street,
Sydney, for examination and further par-
ticulars.
(1) Was at any time a fee of £5 or £6
charged by the Postal Dept, for a wireless
traders' license? (2) If an ordinary broad-
casting - receiving license is lost, will the
department issue a duplicate? —l7BB.
(1) Up to Jan. 1, 1928, the fee for a
dealer’s listening license was £5 p.a. Since
that date it has been 245. (2) On applica-
tion to the Radio Inspector, Wireless
Branch, Treasury Gardens, Melbourne, a
memorandum will be issued certifying that
a license was taken out.
(1) Any prospect of making money strip-
ping wattle-bark for tanning? (2) A good
place to get bark? (3) Is any royalty pay-
able when bark is obtained from Crown land?
(4) Can a man do any good working on his
own ? —1386.
(1) There is a constant demand for
wattle-bark; local supplies are supplemented
by heavy imports. Inquiries should be made
of leading tanners and curriers, such as
B. M. Farleigh, 465 Kent-street, Sydney;
Ludowici and Son, 117 York-street, Sydney •
Bunco and Sons, Botany; Killingers’ Tan-
nery, Liverpool. (2) Varieties of Acacia
decurrens, the group of wattles that is usually
stripped, occur around Sydney, Campbell-
town, Berrima and Picton, and at places on
the South Coast and Southern Tablelands.
(3) In N.S.W. wattle-bark may be stripped
on Crown lands under the authority of Pro-
ducts Licenses, subject to payment of fee,
2s. 6d. The minimum royalty is 20s. per
ton for Acacia decurrens and Acacia pycnan-
tha, and 10s. per ton for mountain hickory
(Acacia penninervis). (4) Depends upon
the man, his experience, accessibility of sup-
plies and tho state of the market.
A way of making peroxide cream? —1689.
Lightly beat up the whites of four eggs:
then add 3 tablespoons of rosewater, loz. oil
of sweet almonds and |oz. alum. Place all
together in a china basin, set in a saucepan
of water, bring tp the boil and boil for a few
minutes, stirring most of the time. Remove
from the fire, and beat until it is of the con-
sistency of paste, gradually adding as much
peroxide of hydrogen as it will take up
without becoming sloppy. Store in tightly-
covered jars.
I have an appliance which is manufactured
and patented outside Australia. Can I take
out a patent for Australia if it is not
patented heme? —1862.
Not unless you are the inventor, or have
some legal right to patent the thing.
(1) Recipe for an adhesive to be used
in sticking pictures of good-quality paper
to glass, so that, they will stand a hot climate
without peeling. (2) In the event of air-
bubbles forming, what is. the best way to
get them out? (3) Best method of applying
adhesive ? —1760
Use best-quality seccotine, and apply very
thinly and evenly to the surfaces. It is
important to use no more than is necessary,
and if carefully applied air-bubbles should
not form. If they do, smooth them out with
a thick silk duster or a wide soft brush
before the seccotine has time to set. Very
obstinate bubbles may be pierced with a
very fine sharp. needle if they occur where
such a perforation will not show.
Does Anybody Know ?
llow to oil a tennis court?- —1563.
How to make a simple and effective
brooder for about 20 chickens? —1783.
Brief Answers.
M.S.T. : The late Louis Bennison played
the part of Benvenuto Cellini in “Benvenuto.” The
season commenced at the Theatre Royal, Sydney, on
February 3, 1923. .. . J.W.8.: You should apply at
offices of shipping cos., but the chances are remote-
hundreds of applications are received weekly. You
would have to start as a cadet steward; wages,
£9 17s. 6d. per month. A second-steward’s position
should be secured after 12 months to two years
F.L.M.D. : Try any of the following: Bailey Bros.,
523 Flinders-lane; R. A. Colenso and Co., 12 King-
street; and F. Jorgensen and Co., 516 Collins-street
—all Melbourne A.M.: Write Dept, of Home
and Territories, Canberra, or the Administrator,
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, Rabaul
H.M.C.: Process too lengthy and technical to describe
here. Consult “The Manufacture of Carbide of
Calcium,” by Charles Bingham R.V.W.: You are
apparently liable for Federal income-tax, and should
lodge a return with the Federal Commissioner of
Taxation in Melbourne, showing all income earned
in Australia during the year. You are not liable
for N.S.VV. State income-tax unless you earned over
£250 in that State during the year. Inquiry should
be made of Vic. Commissioner as to whether income
derived in that State is taxable... ,R.H.L. : (1) Yes,
If it is a public gate. (2) If the gate,
as appears, is a private one, then it cannot
be regarded as subject to the penalties for
not closing a public gate D.J.T.: Deposits
may be lodged with the Vic. State Savings Bank
for an indefinite period A.A.: Fred Hagen, 63
Hunter-street, Sydney K.C.: “Bibbenluke” (a big
lookout), “Coolangatta” (a splendid view), “Mini-
mine” (clear country), “Wollumai” (lookout),
“Yuruga” (extensive view) .... J.E.M.N.: “Ban-
yanda” (home on the waters), “Burrogooroo” (the
sea beach), “Elanora” (home by the sea), “Gun-
damaiii” (house on a stream), “Iluka” (near the
sea) ... . W.R.J.: Nothing to prevent you betting
according to Hoyle. Like many others, however,
this rule may be varied by agreement or local
practice. A player should find out about local rules
before he starts play M.W.: Write to the Com-
missioner, Metropolitan Police Office, New Scotland
Yard, London, S.W.I, and ask him to make inquiries
for you P.W.D.: You do not state whether the
land in question is enclosed or not. If enclosed,
trespass is punishable by a penalty under statute;
but if not enclosed, you may sue for damages at
Common 1 ,aw. Putting up a notice does not affect
tha matter. Law is same in all States. .. .E.H.W.:
(1), (2) and (3) No. (4) Only certified men in all
grades are accepted for service E.J. : The cost
of the stamp is 2s. 6d., and it can be impressed at
the Stamp Duties Office, Phillip-street, Sydney
H.T.: Tost and Rohu, 30 Martin-place, Sydney....
F.D.: You should take the will to the Registrar of
Probates, Supreme Court Buildings, Elizabeth-street,
Sydney, and receive instructions. The co. is not un-
reasonable in its attitude. .. .K.H.: Write to C. H.
Bock and Co., P.O. Box 1862 ; or Poppe, Schunhoff
and Glittery, P.O. Box 132 —both of Capetown, South
Africa. .. .T.D.C.F.: The Calcutta Hides and Skins
Shippers’ Assoc., Calcutta ; or Burk Bros., 3 Ching-
rihatta-lane," Calcutta, may be able to advise y0u....
E.M.8.: See “A History of Costume,” by C. Kohler
and E. von Sichart; and “Dress Design,” by Talbot
Hughes. .. .G.E.: Too long to print here; a full
account of the various systems is contained in
“How tho World Votes,” by Seymour and Frary....
W.M.: (1) “New Italian Grammar,” by Benelli and
Marucelli-Petri; “An Italian Conversation Grammar
and Guide to Italian Composition,” by N. Perini;
and “Italian Grammar,” by Ricci. (2) Obtain, for
a start, Pitman’s “Shorthand Teacher” and Pitman’s
“Shorthand Instructor” (New Era Edition) .
D.L.M.M.: Write Small House Plan Bureau, care J.
H. Hurst, 79 Pitt-street, Sydney. The Institute of
Architects of N.S.W. conducts the bureau, which is
of real assistance to small-home builders... .V.Z.:
(1) Metronome times can only be approximate. Not
only, do concert players differ from each other, but
they themselves do not always play the same passage
at the same speed. For (a) standard speed is 56
beats to the minute, (b) 112 and (c) 176. (2)
and (3)'Write to the Registrar, Oxford University,
for the information... .E.A.F.: We understand that
a departmental opinion was recently communicated
to your local Pastures Protection Board in a similar
case. Get in touch with the board... .A.8.C.: Under
the N..S.W. Explosives Act, 1905, gunpowder may
be manufactured only in a licensed factory, irrespec-
tive of the quantity involved. In the circumstances
we cannot furnish information as to method of manu-
facture. .. ,L.R.: Write to the headmasters of the
intermediate high schools at Narrandera and Junee,
both of which are closer to Matong than Wagga. If
no satisfactory arrangement can be made at these
schools, correspondence tuition might be sought from
one of the Sydney business colleges. .. .W.D.: Cannot
trace any Australian firm manufacturing water-tanned
calf. .. .F.J.T.: The possibilities are that the residue
is either lime or magnesia. Cannot advise more
definitely without further information.... M.K.: G.
Wollaston, 177 George-street, Sydney... .R.E.A.: The
A.M.P. Society permits Industrial policy-holders to
transfer to the Ordinary department wherever they
are registered. The concession is not exclusively
confined to those on N.S.W. registers... .R.R.8.: It
would take at least £2OOO to start a business of
that nature and compete successfully with established
firms. Commonwealth Handkerchief Co., Ltd., 61
Wentworth-avenue, Sydney, may advise as to pro-
cedure... .N.S.D.: Peacock Bros. Pty., Ltd., 28
Martin-place, Sydney, have a school for training
operators for that particular machine. Course takes
about three months to complete; fee, £8 Bs.
Operator's salary varies according to age and standard
of efficiency, and ranges from 255. to £4 per week.
. ...R.E.Q.: There is no provision in the Common-
wealth Invalid and Old Age Pensions Act for
payment of the burial expenses of a pensioner
W.R.: R. C. Treatt and Co., 11 Hart-street, Mark-
lane, London, E.C.3, are one of the largest English
purchasers of ambergris. Before sending to London,
however, it would be wise to submit sample to the
Technological Museum, Sydney, to ascertain whether
the substance is ambergris... .F.M.M.D.: Julatten
means “small creek”; Rumula is the name of an
aboriginal who camped in the vicinity.... G.8.C.:
See “Australian Encyclopaedia,” vol. 11, page 440,
and write to Department of Agriculture, Sydney, for
free pamphlet “Sewage Disposal for Rural Dwellings.
W.G.P.: Lyster Ormsby, 220 Pitt-street. Sydney.
D.S.H.: Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research, 314 Albert-street, East Melbourne, may
be able to help R R.: Isidore Kozminsky, 377
Little Collins-street, Melbourne.... .J.H.J.: Charles
Ritchie, Ltd., 334 Pitt-street, Sydney S.S.: (1)
Carneaux. (2) Write to J. T. Martin, 18 Harrington-
street, Prospect, Adelaide, who will be able to advise
as to state of local markets. To secure sales it will
be necessary to personally canvass high-class hotels,
restaurants, boarding-houses and private hospitals.
You will have to produce a bird lOoz. and over
when dressed. (3) and (4) See “Australian Squab
Culture,” by Darge,... (Many others mailed.)


BLACK & WHITE
W
i ;
t.
i mm
wm
- yr
«»■
W:i
B
*« ' w* i
V :
...... x.^
is mm
:
»8
’
~
. ■•■■. s-i
SCOTCH WHISKY
Bottled under the Supervision of the Commonwealth Customs.
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO., LTD., 1 to 5 GROSVENOR STREET, SYDNEY.


WOOL, FAT STOCK
AND PRODUCE
CONSIGN TO
The Country Producers
SELLING CO., LTD.
Have your Clip displayed on the
most-up-to-date Show Floor in
Sydney!
LIBERAL ADVANCES IF
REQUIRED.
Office: 26/30 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
G. O. PARNHAM, Manager.
PRAISE FROM PRACTICAL MEN
When appreciation, whether written or verbal, is unsolicited, it is
convincing and believable.
Hence the flood of testimony from Stockowners on behalf of
VITA-LICK from all States in the Commonwealth, South Africa
and New Zealand. Never a week passes without the Manufac-
turers receive testimonials from discerning Graziers praising
VITA-LICK for results which have followed its use.
USE “D” FORMULA FOR DRY FEED.
USE “G” FORMULA FOR GREEN FEED.
VITA-LICK, LIMITED,
STOCK LICK SPECIALISTS,
107 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
NATIONAL HOTEL,
BRiSBANE.
Charges are for Room Only. European Plan.
Dining Sei'vice a la Carte
STRICTLY FIRST CLASS.
TARIFF:
Write for Descriptive Folder.
Address Manager—
ROWES, LTD.,
Cafe and Hotel Proprietors,
BRISBANE.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND'S
PAGE
BYERS
HOTEL WINDSOR
CRPARK & CASTLEREAGH STS SYDNEY
MORE PRIZES FOR FARMERS.
In order to encourage farmers to pass
on to others the fruits of their observa-
tion and experience, “The Bulletin” will
give three prizes for the most helpful
contributions during the six months to
Dec. 31 next.
Points will be awarded for every con-
tribution submitted, if thought worthy and
whether printed or not, and two prizes—
the first of £25 and the second of £lo—
be given to the winners of most
points.
A special prize of £5 will be given for
’'he best individual contribution.
Only contributions that are of practical
value to men on the land are asked for;
literary merit is not taken into account, so
long as the meaning is expressed plainly.
The prizes are in addition to the ordi-
nary payments made for all “Bulletin”
contributions.
♦
WATCH THE SUCCESSFUL MAN.
“Curlew”: A newcomer to a district
always does well to take note of the methods
of the most successful men and find out
where the strength of their system lies.
Also it is well to learn the methods of suc-
cessful men in other districts, as it may be
possible to profit by their experience. Mr.
A. R. Michael, Watchupga West, Victorian
Malice, is such a successful man. Thirty-
five years ago he went into the Mallee. He
lias kept careful records of his yields during
that period and rainfall records for the past
24 years. During the first three years his
yields per acre were 4 bushels 21b., 1 bushel
441 b., 2 bushels 201 b. The Mallee stumps
made it almost impossible to work the soil
satisfactorily and a binder could not be
used. The horses were fed on cocky chaff and
pollard. During the following 10 years
(’99-1908) his returns ran from 481 b. (1902)
to 20 bushels 41b (1903). For the 10 years
the average was 8 bushels 401 b.; for the last
four years of this period the rainfall aver-
aged 11.48 in. and his crop average was 12i
bushels. During the 10 years 1919-28 his
average has been 16 bushels 371 b. and the
rainfall has averaged 10.20 inches.
Summarised the results have been :• —
, Harvest —-— N , Rainfall
Aver- Low- High- Aver- High- Low-
age. est. est. age. est. est.
Years. b. lb. b. lb. b. lb. in. in. in.
’99-’OB. . 8.40 0.48 20.4 11.48 13.29 8.38*
’O9-’lB. . 16.37 2.0 29.12 11.87 16.42 6.16
’l9-’2B. . 16.37 9.30 24.0 10.20 14.72 6.23
*Only last 4 years taken.
These records point clearly to one thing—
that Mr. Michael’s methods must be good to
give these yields on such low rainfalls. For
the first 12 years he “had to live on a bread
and jam ration.” But he has since been
able to purchase an additional 900 acres, and,
besides providing a comfortable home, has
a full equipment of implements.
H'e practises summer fallowing on the
heavier land, conserving more moisture
thereby, spreading his work over a longer
period, and bringing about a good germina-
tion of weed seeds. For this work he uses
a mould-board or a sundercut to the depth
of 3in. Nothing further is done till after
seeding, when ordinary winter fallow working
is practised. Mostly he uses the rigid-tine
cultivator in preference to the spring-tooth.
The harrows lie rarely uses except after the
combine, as the finer soil and level surface
aid in soil drift. He leaves the stubble on
sandhills and finds drift minimised thereby.
He sows about 481 b. wheat and 1001 b. super,
per acre and uses formalin in preference to
copper carbonate.
Farrer’s Federation is his standby, though
he experiments with about a dozen varieties,
giving each a test for five years, after which
only the most successful are grown. Ilis
main varieties at present are Federation,
Yandilla King, Sepoy, Nizami, Bena, Bald
Early, Nabawa and Zither. He always
starts sowing the third week in April, rain
or no rain, and thinks it should all be
finished before the middle of June. Almost
without exception the first-sown 100 acres
have proved the best. Last year his April-
sown gave six bags, June-sown only two
bags. For his wheat he got a bi'onze medal
from the British Empire Exhibition and
has had wins at Melbourne, Sydney and Adel-
aide Shows.
MANGANESE DEFICIENCY.
“Yeoman” : The reason for oats and barley
dying out in patches on the rich, brown soil
close to Mt. Gambier, and on black clay and
light calcareous soil elsewhere in South Aus.,
has been attributed by the Waite Agricul-
tural Institute to manganese deficiency.
Its experiments have shown the remark-
able effect of a minute dressing of man-
ganese to the test plots, proving not only
that manganese is an essential factor in the
promotion of those crops, but also that an
abundance of all the other plant foods will
not make up for a deficiency of that or any
other soil constituent.
Geoffrey Samuel, Plant Pathologist at the
Waite Institute, advises farmers on any of
the classes of soil to which reference has
been made, who find that oats and
barley are not doing well and tend to thin
out in patches, to sprinkle manganese sul-
phate on the poor patches. It is best applied
before rain falls, and the patches can be
rolled afterwards. The chemical can be
obtained cheaply enough for its use to be
practicable. A dressing at the rate of
per acre is recommended, although experi-
ments at varying rates are advised. The
Department of Agriculture is carrying out
field tests to ascertain the quantity which
gives the best result.
SULPHATE OF AMMONIA.
“W.8.E.” : This year there will be no sul-
phate of ammonia available for export. In
fact, importations are being made to meet a
general shortage.
There have been some remarkable instances
of profit from its use, the best being from the
application of lewt. to potatoes in the
Portland (Vic.) trials this year. The yield,
referred to in a recent Bulletin par., result-
ing from this conservative application of
sulphate was valued at £22, and the sulphate
cost less than 2.05. delivered to the farm.
Of course the high price for tubers threw
the returns into bold relief, but even at
normal rates an extra 37c wt. per acre
would be worth a bit. Bananaland is the
best customer, and will use very little below
half the total output of sulphate produced
this year. Westralia is another good cus-
tomer, using a quantity not far short of that
consumed in Victoria.
At the Berri experimental orchard (S.A.)
tests over eight years have shown that scwt.
of sulphate of ammonia is the most effective
fertiliser for citrus; and scwt. of sulphate
of ammonia a few years ago was considered
a recklessly extravagant dressing. The ten-
dency now is to think less of its price per
ton than of its increased returns per acre.
SOYA BEANS.
“W.P.D.” : Soya beans are becoming popu-
lar in Queensland, and have been success-
fully tried on the canefields of the John-
stone River, as a crop for ploughing in as
green manure. The director of the experi-
mental farm at Lawnton, near Brisbane,
reports that he has raised a new seedling,
which he expects will prove a good paying
proposition for seed-harvesting. It is simi-
lar to the Mammoth Yellow, but a much
heavier cropper, and is easy to harvest.
In the southern half of the U.S.A. corn
belt soya beans have been found the ideal
crop to grow between maize and wheat, and
a profitable substitute for oats. They leave
the soil in excellent condition for wheat;
the bean is a legume and leaves a con-
siderable amount of nitrogen in the soil. The
crop makes good hay. and is a splendid sub-
stitute for lucerne or clover for the winter
feeding. of pigs. The seed contains about
18 per cent, of an oil which is inter-
mediate in character between the semi-dry-
ing and drying oils. A palatable and nutri-
tious oil-cake is a valuable product.
From personal knowledge I can say that
soya beans are relished by livestock of all
kinds, and that animals fed on the hay,
the seeds or the cake do remarkably well.
FENCES.
“S.W.J.” : Many good managers of pastoral
properties make a point of renewing fences as
soon as they begin to go to pieces; and, of
course, there is much to be said for that sys-
tem. Still, if one has to think twice before
spending a shilling, there is a lot to be said for
the other system—of making fences, like
other improvements and implements, last as
long as may be practicable. The £ s. d. of
it is this. The average life of a fence may
be taken at 25 years ; the cost (for a rabbit-
proof) not less than £lOO per mile. That
means a depreciation of £4 per mile per year.
Now, if we can lengthen the life of such a
fence —as we easily may by, say, 15 years
-—we make a saving of £6O per mile. Which
is worth a second consideration.
However, it is quite upon the cards that
a little attention will prolong the working
life of a fence much more than that. For in-
stance, I had a fence upon its last legs 25
years since. Top-rail, with netting below.
About every third post had rotted off, rails
falling out, netting trampled down. Along
this ruin I stretched the heaviest barb-wire
I could get, boring the tops of the posts
and wiring the barb thereon, prizing up the
leaning posts and generally fettling things
up in a rough-and-ready way at the rate of
about a mile per week (one man).
That ruin of a quarter-century ago is
still doing duty;' and, therefore, may be con-
sidered as having saved the cost of a new
fence —at the price of one barb-wire! Which
barb will serve as good as new when the
fence is replaced.
As a general rule the posts in a fence vary
enormously in their lastingness; and it must
be bad policy to condemn a fence when 25 p.c.
of the posts have rotted off if the re-
mainder are good as new —often, if split
from good, mature timber, better than new
posts obtained, as most are nowadays, from
mere saplings. “Dummying” is unsightly,
and offers a premium to destruction by tire ;
but if “gone” posts are replaced with new
occasionally the life of a fence may be
doubled at a labor cost that will hardly be
noticed.
THE. SHAPE OE THE SHOULDER.
“Tumbe Munda” : In selecting a draught
horse great attention should be paid to the
animal’s shoulder. There is an interminable
discussion as to the relative merits of the
straight and the sloping shoulder. A vet.
friend with a State-wide reputation insists
that the straight-shouldered horse' will work
the sloper to "death and remain fresh him-
self; yet my best horses have had sloped
shoulders. '
I have proved—to my own complete satis-
faction, at any rate —that a straight-
shouldered horse is the best for a heavy pull
whenever the draught is high, as in a dray
or waggon; also to start any load which
requires a tremendous heave. But he is
slower and less active than the sloped-
shoulder horse. The pull must be placed high
on the collar of the straight horse or the
pipe of the collar will press against his
chest and cause distress ; also he will chafe
on the points of the shoulders. Sloped-
shoulder is the horse for general farm work,
with plough, harrows, etc. Put him on a
heavy load and he will probably choke
down in starting it, the collar drawing up
along the shoulder and pressing on the wind-
pipe. But on the . swingle-trees this horse
will walk along all day at a good pace, get-
ting over more ground than his straight-
shouldered brother and coming in at- night
fresh and willing.
TRACTOR v. HORSE.
“Tumbe Munda”: In discussing tractors
v. horses, the pro-tractor men quote the wheat
they can grow where once they grew horse-
feed ; also in estimating the cost of a horse-
team they charge (say) £4 per ton for
chaff. But if the farmer charges himself
£4 he must also credit himself with £4,
since he is seller as well as buyer. If he
charges himself Is. per week per horse for
paddocking he must also credit himself with
that amount.
The overlooking of such items is one of
the reasons why Mr. Tractor-Farmer gets
such a surprise on finding that his over-
draft is bigger than it was with the despised
horse-team.
IMPACTION.
“Fodgie”: I recall a case where the lower
bowel was absolutely hard-packed with
sand. The mare had been drenched with
honey, coffee and milk, Epsom salts and
Lord knows what else. The post-mortem
showed how hopeless drenches are in such
bad cases. The sure remedy, if there is one,
is the clyster.
A syringe for the purpose can be obtained
from any hardware merchant at a small
price. Shut the horse up at night without
feed. In the morning, get a bucket of warm,
soapy water, and inject three or four quarts.
Exercise the horse by walking. Repeat the
treatment in 24 hours in a bad case, at
longer intervals in slighter cases. If you
have a garden syringe, it will serve the pur-
pose quite well —using the small nozzle, of
course.
THE ILLAWARRA BREED.
“Jinbiggaree”: “Coolibali” (B. 17/7/’29)
is right regarding the value of the Illawarra
breed for dual purposes, but is wrong regard-
ing their origin. The first cattle introduced
into Australia were Indian humped cattle
picked up by the First Fleet at the
Cape. Shortly after their arrival they
went bush for several years and multi-
plied. These cattle were afterwards
crossed w T ith importations from England,
and the progeny became humpless and
took on the appearance of a rough type
of Jersey. Macarthur introduced the famous
Irish long-horn breed, and it is stated cows
of this breed frequently gave six gallons
of milk per day. Numbers of pure-bred
Devons were also introduced. It was a
blend of the Shorthorn, Devon and Ijong-
horn which made the famous lUawarri
breed.
When the beef boom took place in tk
’seventies, many. Iljawarra dairymen bought
beef Shorthorn bulls, and ruined the dairy
qualities of their herds. To get back
the lost production they used Ayrshire
importations from Maoriland and Victoria.
One of the most outstanding animals of
this breed was Earl of Beaconsfield. pur-
chased by Lindsay, of Dapto. Two of the
Earl’s daughters proved remarkable cows.
Whiteback produced 50ilb. milk at one
milking in the Wollongong Show Ground
in 1594, and Honeycomb, a half-sister, gave
1241 b. milk in three milkings, 12-hour inter-
vals, tested by Berry A. and H. Society in
1893. Sons of Earl of Beaconsfield were
largely used in Illawara in the ’eighties and
’nineties, and did much to restore the lost pro-
duction caused by the introduction of beef
Shorthorns.
Inspection of the Illawarra exhibits at
any of the leading shows in N. S. Wales
and Queensland will disclose the predomi-
nant color, red. This was not obtained by
crossing Shorthorns and Ayrshires. The
Devon type is also clearly indicated in the
general make-up of the breed.
TO POISON FIELD RATS.
“Grafton”: The damage done by rats to
N.S.W. Northern Rivers cane lias reached
such proportions that organised action is to
attempt eradicating the pest. The main hope
at present lies in poisoning with barium
carbonate biscuit. A Queensland recipe is:
Barium carbonate, lOJlb.; flour, 21J1b.; pol-
lard, 41b.; tallow, 61b.; salt, 9£oz.; water,
1 gallon; aniseed oil, Sieve the barium
carbonate, break up all lumps, mix thor-
oughly with the pollard and flour in the
dry state. Melt the tallow, and knead it
into the mixture. Dissolve the salt in
water and add, gradually adding the remain-
der of the water in small quantities until a
dough that will just stick together is formed.
Roll this Jin. thick. Cut into pieces sin. x
Mn. and bake until dry. Mix the aniseed
oil with an equal quantity of water and
spray over the cool biscuits. The bait is
cheap and not very dangerous to stock. But
keep it away from the kids. Concentrate
on the ground where the rats are doing the
most damage.
CROSS POLLINATION OF FRUIT
TREES.
“Specker”: Fruit trees will soon be bloom-
ing, and the crops will depend largely on
conditions governing successful pollination.
Many varieties of apples are self-sterile, and
even the self-fertile ones bear more fruit
when cross-pollinated with another kind.
Hence it is important that orchardists should
refrain from using poisonous sprays during
the blossoming period and that they should
hire or borrow hives from neighboring bee-
farms and establish them in the orchard.
The colonies should be scattered amongst
the trees, allowing not less than one hive to
the acre, and given even two or three days’
fine weather, with temperatures that will
permit the bees to work —that is to say over
65deg.—the set of fruit should be assured.
To facilitate pollination apple-trees should
not be planted in blocks of one kind, but a
good pollinating variety, such as the Delicious,
which produces large quantities of pollen, and
one that blooms at the same time, should
be interspaced. Where this has not been
done branches from other trees may be placed
in buckets of water in amongst the block.
Not only apple-trees but cherries, peaches
and pears all require the aid of bees to pro-
duce up to their capacity, and orchardists
who have neglected this point hitherto may
quite possibly find the difference in yield
startling, provided the weather conditions
during blossoming time were favorable.
ROCK-MELONS.
“Silentio”: Many growers complain that
they mark too easily in transit to market.
I do not find that so if a little care is used.
Following the Yankee principle, make a
crate of light timber, to hold from a dozen
upwards, using a little dry grass for packing.
The tropical fruit-case that pineapple
growers use makes an excellent rock-melon
crate, and it can be slatted a little more
if the weather is hot. Don’t line the case
with thick paper if the weather is bad.
In cultivation they are on all fours with
the cucumber, liking a light, well-manured
soil and a generous water supply till the
fruit is set, when the water should be eased
off. They like a fairly warm situation, and
if hot winds are prevalent in your district
grow a breakwind of corn. Cut out the old
hill-planting scheme and grow in rows about
4ft. apart, cultivating till the runners cover
all the area. This keeps the weeds down
and the moisture in, as well as the earth
cool.
Rocky Ford, Nutmeg and Netted Gem
are good kinds, whilst the Casaba finds an
excellent market, keeping right into the
winter, if stored in a dry cool shed. Perhaps
the best seller of late years is the Honey
(Continued on page 81.)


The Old Order Changes
i'-
„y
'
i* * *
■
Actual photograph showing manual
handling of cargo on Sydney wharves.
Note Lister Auto-Truck in background.
giving place to the NEW
■■■■■■■■■■■■■
HHI
■
\
;
«.
*
«S
Photograph (taken same day )
showing Lister Auto-Truck and
trailer moving 30 bags (2J tons)
from ship's slings to store.
V s -
c.mK'H 9 ' **»•£-
V . 0 , »v * < ’°Vvtt l \
, O» V <
<j* \> 6
v»V“
„
<s«£•. V;f> >*>* . >Vj»
jy ,c> /“y/f/;
>;> ss>X $> ik>M
& A>° VV V - k °^.o* C^co^
“V* V> VI * V 0
v f wf,^v>tV'-
C°' atv (V \
A P AO n '
>, # 4
0^
After Severe Practical Test,
Inter-State Steamship Owners’
Association Orders Fleet of Lister
Auto-Trucks.
Tested under everyday conditions on an ordinary
shipment, Lister Auto-Trucks proved very clearly
that they save time and money even on the most
difficult transport work. In constricted wharf
areas the auto-truck was found to be particularly
useful owing to its speed and ease of manoeuvring.
Other users include the Enfield Loco. Sheds
(N.S.W. Govt. Railways), the Ammonia Co. of
Australia and the Australian Glass Manufacturers
Co., Ltd., (all repeat orders).
Let us demonstrate to you on your own work, how
the Lister Auto-Truck will save you time, money
and worry.
DISTRIBUTORS:
Dangar, Gedye & Co., Ltd.,
10-14 Young Street, Sydney.
Noyes Bros. (Melb.) Pty., Ltd.,
495 Bourke Street, Melbourne, C. 1.
Mechanical Supplies, Ltd.,
69 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Malloch Bros., 50-54 William Street, Perth.
5?
O
f#s
rr>
■H
■■lllllllllll
e
ST


11l
EiC^yAYRE FIELD is the
personification of good
taste in headgear. .The
excellent design, quality
and finish appeal to men
q £ discriminating taste.
Why not judge for yourself the hard-
wearing, shape-retaining merits of this
distinctive hat ? Then . . your future
choice will be, invariably, Fayrefield!
Choose from an extensive range of
shapes, shades and sizes.
a\i\Q§&(xL
are tli eir Merits wi th Ac
one
Obtainable at all the
leading Men’s Stores
A PRODUCT OF UNITED FELT HATS PTY. LTD.
FIS-


mm
■
■ ■
W srf}.
•n
am
' y>
Roomy, smart and
doubly strong
Twice the usual thickness of
leather is used for the sole of
this Abbey Boot. And, the
upper is doubled—having an
inner lining.of soft leather that
increases both comfort and
durability.
This boot is comfortable over
the roughest going. It flexes
easily despite its solid construc-
tion. Over the instep, the
lacing curves to fit the natural
arch of the foot, without strain.
At back of ankle, the upper is
cut lower, to eliminate bulging
and to ensure a closer fit.
ORDER BY POST.
There are narrow, medium and wide
fittings in every size. Specify width
as well as length, and order, also, a
supply of Abbey Preservative Polish
(6d. per tin).
TAN WILLOW CALF, 47/6
BLACK BOX CALF, 45/-
Enlarged catalogue of men’s and women’s
footwear post free.
ABBEY
Established over 80 years,
313 George St. & 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS :
“ABBEY BOOTS,” Svdney.
FPL 139
X
Is it worth 1/6
per day to provide your wife and
children with £1000? The most
generous provisions ever offered in
insurance. Write for free particulars
to
Commonwealth General
Assurance Corp., Ltd.,
8f O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
FOR
ARCHITECTS, ARTISTS, DESIGNERS,
DRAUGHTSMEN & OFFICE USE.
■
■
a
BRITISH
MADE
Perfection
RITSPL RUBBER
Post Your Order
sdf
sdf
THE PRINCE
POLEY
Complete.
£l4/14/-
Send to-day for
my Bool: of Ex-
periences, Post
free.
for the
WIENEKE
PRINCE POLEY
SADDLE.
The World's Best.
This saddle has special
high grip kneepuds,
but the stirrup bars
are free, allowing the
leathers to come away
easily.
Perfect Shape for
' Comfort.
No other saddle will satisfy
you if you are a diukuni
rider,
JOHN WIENEKE,
c/o JOHN BRUSH,
371 George St., Sydney,
arid at
434 Queen St., Brisbane.
Protect
your skin from
infection
after shaving
Use
Cuticura
Talcum Powder
Delightfully soothing and cooling to
the tender, newly shaven skin and a
most efficient, sanative and antiseptic-
protection against infection. Used in
combination with the Cuticura Shaving
Stick, Cuticura Talcum is an unusually
acceptable and fragrant addition to the
masculine toilet.
Soap Is. Ointment Is. and 2s. Talcum Is. 3d. Sold
everywhere. Sample each free. Address : R. Towns
& Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Cuticura Shaving Stick Is. 6d.
Martin Ditcher
Hundreds of Australian
pastoralists and farmers are
using the Martin Ditcher for
a score of purposes. It is
the most useful farm imple-
ment ever devised, quickly
saving the cost, £35, in
speed, efficiency and wages.
KL
m
HQ -
Wm
it#.
J. B. WALLIS, LTD.,
Challis House, Martin Place,
Sydney
499 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
168 Edward Street, Brisbane
T. T. B’ld’g, Light Square, Adelaide
Padbury Building, Forrest Place, Perth
B.K.
“KANGAROO” SHEEP GATE
REGISTERED No. 17494/28.
i|M
WW*£
tLk.
Designed for sheep-pens or
draughting yards to facilitate
the handling of flocks. The gate has one bottom hinge to the back
guard, on which it works, and is simply thrown across into the
long catch bar, which holds it securely.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM THE MANUFACTURERS:—
D.BW. CHANDLER LTD.
BRUNSWICK STREET,
FITZROY, VICTORIA.
Dew, a late variety but prolific and a good
carrier, and having a flavor all of its own.
They offer an easy, paying side-line, requir-
ing very little cropping attention, and yield-
ing well in most situations. On the market
if a small surplus mounts up the jam manu-
facturers hop in eagerly.
THE SUGAR BEET.
“Hatter”: The sugar beet, being the most
important arable crop in Europe, has been
the subject of many experiments in the
Northern Hemisphere, and the conclusions
reached should be of value to Australian
growers. During the years 1923-27 the
average yield per acre was 11.4 tons in
Denmark, 10.1 in Germany, 9.8 in France,
and in England (where it has been only
recently introduced) only 7.5 tons.
It has been discovered that the factor that
counts most is the thorough cultivation of
the ground before sowing, and next in im-
portance comes the necessity for correcting
acidity, if present in the soil. For this pur-
pose waste lime from the adjacent sugar beet
factories is generally utilised. For average
soils the system of manuring found most satis-
factory is a heavy dressing . of farmyard
manure, 1 to 21 cwt. of sulphate, of ammonia,
2cwt. super, and l jcwt. of muriate of potash
per acre. On rich black soils the super, and
potash can be .cut out and up to 4cwt. of
nitrate of soda can be applied. It has
been found that the time of application is of
great importance. Potash salts should be
used . some time before seeding, otherwise
germination is likely to be adversely affected.
Sulphate of ammonia, also, should be applied
before drilling. The late application of nitro-
genous manures delays the ripening process
and depresses the sugar contents. An excess
of nitrogen has a similar effect.
In this country the necessary organic
manure could be most conveniently supplied
by feeding off and turning in the previous
crop; but if only artificials are available the
amounts must be increased 2\ to 3 cwt. of
sulphate of ammonia, 3Jcwt. super, and
2cwt. of potash. The effect of the super,
and potash is most marked on poor, peaty
soils.
Experiments in spacing the plants have
shown that too much space is detrimental to
the yield of sugar and that 25,000 to the acre
is about right. That means 21in. between
rows and lOin. between plants in a row,
or 18in. between rows and 12in. between
plants.
TOPPING AND TAILING MAIZE.
“Jinbiggaree”: Seed merchants insist on
maize being topped and tailed for seed pur-
poses. In my opinion this is wrong and
contrary to . nature’s laws. A perfect cob
must be full to the tip and butt with grains
altogether different in shape from those in the
centre of the cob. My experience after 50
years of observation as a grower is that
constant topping and tailing have a tendency
to make the ends of the cob bare, whereas by
leaving all the grain on the cobs selected
for seed purposes you get a fully-packed cob
with no vacant spaces at the ends. I have
grown crops up to 90 bushels per acre with-
out the aid of fertilisers of any kind, which
I think is proof that topping and tailing are
unnecessary. The husking and shelling
machines now in use winnow out most of
the small and faulty grains, leaving a good
sound sample for seed purposes.
DUCKS.
_ “Curlew”: Ducks are worth more atten-
tion; they may be more profitable than most
strains or the various breeds of poultry. At
the last Burnley (Vic.) competition, six
Khaki Campbell ducks laid 1733 eggs, while
three of the same breed laid 753, the best
layer giving 317 eggs and the worst 212. A
Rouen laid 299. These figures compare favor-
ably with White Leghorns, 283-285; Black
Orps., 293-280.
Rouens, Aylesburys, Pekins, Khaki Camp-
, bells and Buff Orpingtons all make good
birds, and they may be forced along to be
prime for the market at eight or nine weeks
old. They also are ahead of chickens, in that
much of their food may be vegetables or
other cheaper bulky food that chickens would
barely touch. In an experiment 39 ducks
at two weeks weighed 13'ilb.; 39 chickens
of the same age 711 b. In five weeks the
ducks made a gain of IOSJIb. at a cost of
7s. 3d., while the chickens gained 22|lb. at
a cost of 4s. 6d.
A few points necessary to success:
Abundance of green food and cooked vegeta-
tion to increase the mash; not too much
bran; meat meal, shell-grit or lime; clean
drinking water, but none for swimming
except a day or two before marketing; and
do not use the pen long, but sow down to
a crop of greenstuff. Also feed abundantly.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) Can two persons select an original
holding in N.S.W. in their joint names? (2)
Is the old practice of granting Crown land
still in vogue? (3) Mow is Crown land in
the Millston (N.S.W.) district made avail-
able? _ (4) Are any advances made to an
intending selector? (5) Mow are grants given
and what qualifications must applicants pos-
sess? (6) To whom can I write for full parti-
culars?—l777.
(1) No. (2) Crown grants are not now
made as in other days, but are issued after
certain conditions, including residence and
the payment of the purchase money, have
been fulfilled. (3) As “homestead farms” in
areas _ of about 1000 acres. A homestead
farm is a perpetual lease, but under certain
circumstances it may be converted into a con-
ditional purchase. (4) Not unless he is a
returned soldier within the meaning of
the N.S.to. Returned Soldiers Settle-
ment Act, in which case he may apply for
an advance not exceeding £625 for the pur-
pose of effecting improvements and for the
purchase of stock and plant. (5) Applica-
tions are considered by a local land board.
Applicant must prove that he possesses suffi-
cient experience and capital -.and is other-
wise qualified to satisfactorily occupy and
develop the land applied for. (6) Dept, of
Lands, Sydney.
(1) Cure for lice in fowls? (2) Are some
foiols lice-breeders at moulting time? (3)
Cure for tick in fowls? (4) Are a scab
underneath the foot and a swelling of the foot
caused by tick bites? (5) A useful book for
the poultry-breeder? —l664.
(1) Dust the birds with flowers of sul-
phur, or smear the roosts late in the after-
noon with black-leaf 40. Dust baths keep
birds reasonably free from body lice. (2 t
No, but fowls are likely to become infested
under too close confinement. (3) Kerosene
emulsion as a spray for the houses. Pull
directions-will be found in pamphlet on fowl
tick, obtainable from N.S.W. Dept, of Agri-
culture. (4) No. Corns or bumble-foot are
caused mainly by high roosts or hard and
stony ground. (5) “Poultry Farming in
N.S.W.” by E. H'adlington (N.S.W. Gov-
ernment Printer, 45.).
(1) Should incubator temperature be kept
at 103 deg. for fowl, duck, turkey and goose
eggs? (2) How long should they take to
hatch? (3) Names of books on poultry keep-
ing and incubation? (4) Is there any differ-
ence in the term of incubation of duck-eggs
under «• duck and'■ under a hen? —l727.
(1) Yes, for fowls and turkeys. For duck-
and goose-eggs the temperature must be
maintained at 102 deg. (2) Fowl, 21 days;
Xndian-i’unner duck, 27; Muscovy duck, 35;
other duck, 28; turkey, 30; goose, 2S to 30.
(3) “Poultry Farming in N.S.W.” by E.
Hadlington, obtainable from N.S.W. Govt.
Printer or leading booksellers. Price, 4s.
Leaflets on the subject are procurable free
from your State Agricultural Dept. (4) No.
My brother,-now at a High School , wishes
to go on the land. What would be the best
course for him to adopt? Mow could he
qualify for a cadetship with the N.S.W.
Dept, of Agriculture? —l7lB.
It would be advisable for him to under-
take a course of training at Hawkqsbury
Agricultural College or one of the farm
schools under the control of the Dept, of
Agriculture, prospectuses! of. which are avail-
able from that department. Cadets selected
for training at .the University for the scien-
tific branches of the department must be
qualified for entrance to the University. Full
particulars as to the conditions governing
these cadetships and as to the salary and
prospects after training can be obtained on
application to the Dept, of Agriculture.
(1) Mas elephant or kikuyu grass been
tried, under irrigation in Vic.? (2) A suitable
pasture mixture to plant .under irrigation at
Swan Hill (Vic.). —1604.
(1) No, not so far as is known, though
elephant grass has done well under irrigation
in Western N.S.W. Write N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture for further information.
(2) Perennial rye grass, 101 b.; Italian rye
grass, 31b.; cocksfoot, 31b.; cow gra:ss, 21b.;
white clover, lib.; alsike clover, lib.; sub-
terranean clover, lib.; all per acre.
I have seven horses, all in constant work,
and at every opportunity they start gnawing
and biting each other, chiefly along the back
from shoulder to hip. They are in good con-
dition and well fed. What’s the cure? —1737.
When the horses are not in work the food
should be carefully regulated; it stands to
reason that horses at rest do not require the
same quantity of chaff and oats as when at
work. The horses should be washed, and a
physic ball should be administered to each.
They should be bran washed until the physic
operates and then brought back gradually
to normal diet. Afterwards give them a
dessertspoon each of sulphur, saltpetre and
baking soda in the evening, twice weekly, say
on Wednesdays and Saturdays.
HINTS FOR THE FARM.
“Bullswool”: A useful flood-gate can be
made from woven pig-wire fencing, prefer-
ably without the barb. Lacing a batten
top and bottom, suspend the gate from
stout wires, or a long pole. Affix to the
pole with loops of wire, and as many sections
as needed for the depth of the creek can
be attached, one below the other. The bot-
tom one is lightly pegged down to stop
stock in dry times. The weight of water
pulls the peg out, and as the stream rises,
section after section rises.
“Silentio”; To prevent wilt in tomatoes,
I last year pushed a small section of copper
wire through the stem of the plant in the
early stages of growth. I had no signs of
wilt, and will give it another fling this year.
I can’t swear to its value, but pass it on
for what it’s worth.
“Yeoman”: A frost on July 29 (the first
for many years on my property) apparently
destroyed a large percentage of 12,(>00 carly-
tomato plants and scorched the leaves of
many more, notwithstanding a barrage of
smoke from a ring of fires. The damaged
plants were pruned back, and wherever the
main stem remained green a fresh growth
has appeared. The actual loss of plants
will now be considerably less than was at
first feayed.
“Otnim”: Steel posts for staking grape
vines I find unsatisfactory. They burn
the canes and leaves, as well as the
bunches that touch them during the hot
spells. As intermediate supports they act
well. For the flower grower, for climbing
plants such as sweet-peas, as well as beans
in the vegetable garden, the steel post and
netting cannot be beaten. After use the
posts are raised, laid flat, rolled up with
the netting and stored for future use, or
removed to another crop.
“Otnim”: Give the trees on the farm a
little more attention. They have manifold
uses. Small belts and clumps afford both
shade and a breakwind for stock. Lopping
gives wood for the home. Each year the
price of fencing material goes up, and it’s
pretty hard to get decent bush timber nowa-
days for shed building. And the man who
wants to sell out knows the farm with
reasonable timber looks far more attractive
than the bare holding.
. “Curlew”: Straw chaff soaked in water
containing a small quantity of salt, and, if
available, molasses, makes a good fodder.
It should be packed pretty tightly into grain
sacks and put aside till it has heated some-
what. The time required will vary with the
moisture contents, the state of the weather
and tightness with which it is packed. The
addition of crushed grains or linseed will
improve the value considerably.


EXTRA HISH GRADE
SMOkoINQ TOBAOCO
its
•uoiit
is
unequalled
19 per 2oz Tin
fsd
Promptness —The first essential of Assurance.
P. & C. take pride in acting quickly. Every claim has immediate
attention. This is only one of the many advantages that com-
mend P. &C. Assurance to the man on the land. Policies car-
ried on during times of stress —money set aside each year for loans to
members. P. &C. is linked up with the most influential Co-operative
bodies, and clients’ interests are closely guarded. Here are plain
facts for commonsense men—P. &C. Assurance is the kind you need
—investigate the policies right away. Send for literature.
Chairman of Directors : Hon. A. K. Trethowan, M.L.C. Man. Director: H. Fell
PRODUCERS V CITIZENS
COOPERATIVE ASSURANCE CO. OF AUSTRALIA
221-225 ELIZABETH STREET. SYDNEY.
LTD.
__w
7he centre of Queens /anc/s
'disttnguisf>ec/ Socio/ Life.
WoM
RDISP
BRISBANE
Magnificent B a I i-
room. Palm Court
and Lounges at the disposal of
guests and their friends at all
times.
Double and single Bedrooms, wit!?
Bathrooms attached. Hot and cold
running water and Electric Fans in
every bedroom, and every modern
convenience for the comfort of
guests.
Telegrams and Cablet: Lennon’s, Brisbane.
Telephone, Cetitral 5780—10 Lineu.
SMOKE-OH!
N. S. Wales housewives have done the
potato in the eye.
if if
“He intends to writ about Australia.”
—Sydney News.
An insolvent friend of ours complains that
far too many people are writting about
Australia already.
tf if
“A Rockhampton police inspector declared that
a mixture sold at a sly-grog shop consisted chiefly
of methylated spirit. After drinking it men went
almost mad.”
Anyhow, there was methyl in their
madness.
if if
“Shortage of Clergy.” Yet in no line is
a surplice so necessary.
if if
“Through the halls of Caesar’s Palace, on the
Palatine, I walked, now reduced to ruins of fine
brickwork.” —Somerset de Chair in Sydney Sun.
An endurance feat comparable to that
of the Spartan youth, who smiled though
reduced to ruins by the gnawings of a fox
at his vitals.
if tf
Rival restaurants are chuckling over the
news that things got so hot at Sydney
Ambassadors the other night that the place
had to be cleared out.
if #
“In Paris an American girl paraded at 3 a.m.
completely nude and tooting a clarionet. She was
arrested.” — Cable.
Even the tolerant Parisians couldn’t put
up with the tooting of a jazz instrument at
such an hour!
if if
All said and done, drinking beer is a mug’s
game.
if if
“How bankrupt in statesmanship is our great
Australia, where we have untold millions laying
neglected at our feet!” —Former politician in Sydney
Sun.
Our legislators evidently need someone
to teach them to suck eggs.
SOME COLOR ISN’T EVEN SKIN DEEP.
"Don’t you go talkin’ to dat lady, you black wretch!."
"Py cripe, she not so white as she painted, mine t’inkit.”
“No noose is good news,” as the reprieved
murderer observed.
tf if
With the punter’s watch it is a case of
“here to-day; in pawn to-morrow.”
Bruce has always had a weakness for.
royal commissions. He even had one in
the British Army.
¥ *
DRIVEN TO DESPERATION.
Cyrus Q. Cohengrabber, the power behind
the US.A. theatrical world, flicked the ash
from his five-dollar cigar and spat copiously.
1 lis rococo features registered remorseless-
ness ; his words fell with steam-hammer force
upon the anguished woman who, at the zenith
of her fame, had starred in his fifty-million-
dollar productions.
“You’re finished, goil. Polk won’t stand for
you any longer. You’re plain sacked!”
“My God ! To think that I have come to
this,” she sobbed, and hurried away to sign
up for a tour of Australia.
MoM.
if tf
The man who coughs at me is spurned;
The careless sneezer I eschew.
’Tis chiefly distance, I have learned,
That lends enchantment to the ’flu.
N. G.
if *
“The North Coast of N.S.W. is the richest part of
Australia.”
It’s a land overflowing with milk and
money.
if if
“Despondency was the cause of ’s suicide.
He hanged himself in his underclothes.” —Melbourne
news item.
It’s at least one suicide fashion that the
girls won’t be able to follow!
SUCH IS LIFE.
“The petitioner, Mary Anne Little, said she had
divorced her first husband, whose name was Long.”
“Love me, Little! Love me, Long!”
Was the burden of their song.
Yet Little’s love did not last Long,
And Long did Little grievous wrong.
H.
if
“I believe that the modern dance-hall leads to
damnation.” —Sydney parson.
H'e is thinking, of course, of the end of
the whirled.
THE REST CURE.
Mr. Blinker, of the Civil Service, while
on his holidays was compelled to call the
doctor in. The doctor said he needed a com-
plete rest, whereupon the invalid returned
at once to his job.
THE GREAT CANBERRA DUEL.
“Mr. Snowden was interviewed by the seconds of
M. Cheron, of France, in connection with the Repara-
tions discussion.” — Cable.
Blither, M.P., was addressing his fellow-
legislators.
“I’ve been slandered,” he said. “A most
damaging attack has been made on me in
my professional capacity. The Hon. Member
has accused me of being too honest —too
reluctant to eat my own words and frater-
nise with those whom I have attacked—
to have any hope of becoming a Minister.
DON’T BLAME HER!
“My dear, remember that people who live
in glass houses should not throw stones
“No, blit they can’t help casting reflections
sometimes.”
“This, gentlemen, of one who has organ-
ised scores of selection ballots, and who can
trace his descent through a long line of buc-
caneers, go-getters, criminal defenders and
bushrangers to an insurance canvasser!
Seconds will wait on my detractor at once.”
And so it came about that six ghostly
figures met in the greying light of the follow-
ing morning in a quiet part of Mr. Bruce’s
£50,000 golf course.
Shots ring out. More shots. They con-
tinue to ring out all the morning, with brief
halts for refreshments on the part of those
conducting the bombardment.
The close of another glorious Australian
day reveals the spectacle of two determined
legislators blazing away at each other knee-
deep in lead; their hides having proved too
tough to enable any of the bullets to take
effect.
D. MoM.
A BANANA LANDER VIEWS SYDNEY.
From the Boogooliwi (Q.) Times: —
The many friends of Mr. Will Jones will
be pleased to know that he has returned
from Sydney safe and sound, except for a
fractured skull and a bullet wound in the
leg. .
Asked by our representative to relate
his experiences, he said that things in the
Harbor City were normal when he left.
“Bashing,” he said, “is, of course, all the
rage, and without some knowledge of the
art one is quite out of it —and liable to be
out to it. On the advice of friends I took
a course of lessons. There are some excellent
schools in the Glebe timber belt, but all
teach much the same technique. The one
I attended specialises in team work, and its
graduates have done consistently well
against the police. Single-handed work is
frowned on, as savoring of tlieatricalism,
though ‘Crasher’ Slugg has put up some
one-man shows that have been greatly
admired. He recently bagged a saw-bench
hand and a policeman with one bottle.
Slugg, by the way, is a Darlinghurst alum-
nus.”
Asked about his razor work, Mr. Jones said
he happened to strike the close season for
victims. Most of the fashionable gangs were
absorbed in the big spring snow parties, and
others were attending functions arranged by
sister societies in Melbourne.
“Motorists, however,” said Mr. Jones,
“have declared an open season for pedes-
trians. The ‘hit-and-run’ method is very
popular with the younger set, who do their
work in a jovial, care-free way, enhanced
very often by a few spots. I tried my
’prentice hand at it, but as my single victim
recovered and the Judge made some scathing
remarks*about my incompetence, I gave it up.
“Altogether an amusing and adventurous
trip,” said Mr. Jones —“Cheery Will” to his
Rotary friends.
J. V. D.
* *
THE BRIDGE THAT FAILED.
I stood on the bridge at midnight.
I had always thought it strong,
But since the night of that aioful fight
It’s as broad as it is long.
Slash.
THE PRESS-AGENT’S GUIDE TO THE
TALKIES.
“The Loan Wolf.” —Starring Earle-Page-
Page (the Rin-Tin-Tin of Frenzied
Finance). See the Tragic Treasurer sign
an IOU!
“The Tramway Melody.”—Featuring Vic-
toria’s only Cameron. See! Hear (Especi-
ally hear) his trams! Everyone talks in this
stupendous Melbourne film except Cameron.
“The Terror.”—A thrilling Mystery Film
of Motor Bandits, featuring Melbourne’s
Hold-up Heroes! Shrieks, Yells, Pistol-
shots ! Deft Fingers touching Fat pockets!
What are the Police Doing? See them doing
it!
“The Wild Party.”—With .an All-star
Cast, including Adelaide’s Labor Lads. Con-
HE’D HAD NINE CHANCES TO MAKE
IT THE LAST.
THE BOY FIREND: “Dammit, Noreen, this
is the ninth stocking-window you’ve
looked in!”
THE BOY'S FRIEND: “Well, darling, that’s
your fault.”
tinuous Abuse! Howls! Insults! It’s the
Wildest Party you’ve ever Seen !
“Deacon Skinnem.” —Featuring the Norton
Boys. A screamingly funny Short Talkie,
produced at a cost of £3500. The scene is
laid in a court of law. A Great Comedy
Turn ! Everybody smiles but the Norton Boys!
See this Now. It won’t be Shown Again.
Chic.
TO A MOTOR MAID.
Co slow, sweet maid, and let tvho will go
faster!
Drive round us, girl, not at us all day
long.
Do not add groans and rending sticking-
plaster
Unto your engine’s song.
EUROCLYDON.
HOPE FOR THE PROSCRIBED.
“At the Trades Hall there is a ‘black book’ which
contains the names and numbers of many policemen.
Two more names and numbers were entered
in the book after Saturday’s mass picketing demon-
strations, one of a sergeant and another of a
young constable.” —Sydney Guardian.
At the Trades Hall, 1929:—
“Red” Jim McBlather, organiser of the
Great Household Necessaries Strike, was
cheered to the echo as he rose. “Our first
business,” he thundered, “is to inscribe on
our List of Doom the name of Constable
Henry Bloggs. Bloggs, who revealed his
hatred of the workers’ cause by giving evi-
dence in the trial for murder of our late
Comrade, ‘Basher’ Smith, will be crushed
to the earth by the first Government of
which I am a member. (A Voice: “Give
him a chance, Jim. Remember his wife and
kids!”) Our comrade says, ‘Give him a
chance.’ What chance, I ask, did he give
our departed comrade when he deliberately
ruined the case which the latter’s counsel
had built up by disclosing where, the body
was buried? For such a crime against
Leninism there can
be but one penalty
—ruin. Put his
name down, I say.”
(Loud cheers.)
At the National
Club, 1939:
Sir James Mc-
Blather, Treasurer,
rose amidst cheers.
He said: “I have
an extremely
pleasant duty to
perform this after-
noon, ladies and
gentlemen—namely,
to present Police
Inspector Henry
Bloggs, an old and
valued friend of
mine, with your
generous gift in
recognition of his
work in bringing to
justice the homici-
dal organisers of
the present House-
ho 1 d Necessaries
Strike. I believe
that in the morning
of his brilliant
career, the Inspec-
tor’s political
enemies had the
effrontery to inscribe his name on a
certain ‘Black List.’ (Laughter.) Well may
you laugh, ladies and gentlemen. But remem-
ber that these menaces to society are not to
be entirely disregarded. There are those
amongst them who would excuse murder
itself. It is for that reason I say, Thank
God for such men as Inspector Bloggs!
Inspector, I have much pleasure in present-
ing you with this small token of our esteem
and shaking your honored hand.” (Loud
cheers.)
SINGEMOINE.
BREAKING THE NEWS.
(Air: “ But I’d Rather Have a Hard-boiled
Egg.”)
“Upon Lady Baden-Powell asking her husband
what present he would like from the Boy Scouts, he
replied ‘A pair of braces.’ Later, he chose a Rolls-
Royce. ”■— Cable.
Now gather, Scouts, round the camp-fire’s
glow,
Your good deeds done for the day,
And steel yourselves for a heavy blow.
Well — here’s ivhat I’ve got to say :
Chorus.
The Chief has changed his mind about the
braces;
He doesn’t think he needs a new pair yet;
Apart from which, a collar stud and laces
(And that at once) he’ll simply have to
get.
He means to tie his trousers up with cotton,
Or string, or rope. They’re cheaper all,
by far,
And just as good as braces —unless rotten.
He’d rather have a Rolls-Royce motor-car.
You must shun the Men’s Wear counter,
boys,
And politely ask the way
To the Rolls-Royce cars. They’re expensive
toys,
But, as I set out to say :—
Chorus.
The Chief has changed his mind about the
braces;
lie’s more or less lost interest in his pants.
He wants a car for going to the races,
Or picnicking, or shooting elephants.
He’d no doubt like a pair of nice suspenders,
And there are other gifts he wouldn’t bar
( Chairs, tables, boots, hats, tongs or bright
brass fenders),
But he’d rather have a Rolls-Royce motor-
car.
BLOGGS.


CIC ARETTE
D
rifely
introduced,
30 veal's ago,
the proof lhat
SvptjXM'gSS
still holds
fifst place in
favoui; is the
fact mat you
see fhe, ‘
familiar RED"
Packet Mefever
of
loJcnfc.
•‘'TUtnCr- NO-THROAT-HARM• IN A-MILUON." •


Twin-Ignition
Rules the
Road
msH loo'
A New-Type “400” Roadster
BEFORE buying another motor car, you should, not fail to drive
the newest Nash “400” —the Roadster with the Twin-Ignition
motor —and the new-type comfort body!
It has more power greater, smoother speed irresistible
tion. Nash Twin'lgnition performance establishes a delightful new
standard, difficult for others to equal.
In the development of this entirely new motor, Nash has combined
three outstanding principles of motor design twin-ignition, high-
compression and valve-in-head.
And because of the double drop frame and the Nash “400” body lines,
passengers sit exceptionally low in this new ‘‘4oo” Roadster. Arm
rests are conveniently provided on both doors and there is a folding
center arm rest to further increase riding ease.
In both motor and body, Nash is the first, and so far the only car, to
offer this finer type of construction.
TOURERS.
Standard Six from
Special Six from , . ..
Advanced Six from..
.. £375
.. £4BO
.. £63o*
SEDANS.
£4so* (2 door) £47o* (4 door)
£565* (2 door) £sBo* (4 door)
£62o* (2 door) £635* (4 door)
Body.
Distributors for New South Wales
WILLSFORD, LTD.,
132-134 Phillip Street,
SYDNEY.
’Phones: 8W2291 (5 lines).
Distributors for Victoria and Tasmania
RICKARDS BROS. PTY., LTD.,
567-573 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE, Cl.
’Phone: F 3114.
Distributors for Queensland and Northern Riven
PEELS, LTD.,
407-431 Stanley Street,
SOUTH BRISBANE.
’Phone: J 1561.
Distributors for South Australia and Broken Hill
AUTOCARS, LTD.,
58-72 Flinders Street,
ADELAIDE.
’Phone: Central 5500.
Distributors for West Australia ’
ERIC MADDREN MOTORS, LTD.,
996 Hay Street,
PERTH.
’Phones: 85610, 87634.
TASMANIAN DEALERS:
THE SERVICE CO. OF TASMANIA, 56 Paterson Street,
E. MEERMANN, 135 Bathurst Street, Hobart.
BENNETT & GILBERT, Best Street, Devonport.
Launceston.
fsd


All British & Continental
CARS, TRUCKS AND MOTOR-CYCLES
EQUIPPED WITH
TecalemiT
LUBRICATING SYSTEMS
TECALEMIT
HOOK - ON.
f
sdf
TECALEMIT
PUSH - ON.
I
can be serviced by
TECALEMIT SERVICE STATIONS:
Atkins (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street Perth
Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street Adelaide
Keep Bros. & Wood Pty., Ltd., Bateman Street Melbourne
Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt Street Sydney
Martin, Wilson Bros., Ltd., 299 Adelaide Street Brisbane
Factory Representative: Mr. JAMES THORNELL, 312 Pitt Street, SYDNEY
TECALEMIT, LTD., Mitre House, Scrubbs Lane, London, N.W.10, England.
Only when I chose "Rameno” Brand "Merino-
Knit” Half Hose did I realise how comfortable
and smart a sock could be! "Merino-Knit” Half
Hose fits snugly round the ankles and firmly on the
legs. The fashionable colours, superb wearing
quality and non-shrinkage in the wash makes
"Rameno” Brand "Merino-Knit” the ideal sock for
dressy, durable and economical wear.
ERINOKNIT
* RAMENO ” Brand
MEN’S HALF HOSE
m
RAMENO
BRAND
"Rameno” Brand "Merino-
Knit” Cardigans and
Sweaters, too, are beautifully
knitted, distinctive in style
and colours, and altogether
desirable as an adjunct to
the everyday attire of the
most particular man.
Made only by
MERINO WOOLLEN MILLS
PTY. LTD.
Specialists in Men's
High-Grade Knit-Wear.
rr
Merino-Knit.
Usjl Aiwajs nr
m
m
M 35
Ask for "RaVneno” Brand “Merino-Knit”—and Qet it!
I
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
$
f IfiAß^
m Jr 1 ¥ iZP
c MdJIAVOur
At all good hotels dll 1
and tobacconists *|JI
Special Box prices on request
Wholesale Distributers
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GiORCE STREET SYDNEY
Pen and Picture
The
STARE
THEATRES
SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE
Shadow Shows
“The Medicine Men” (Fox), in which two
well-known American comedians, Clark and
McCulloch, provide some excellent farce, is
a meritorious talkie, inasmuch as it attempts
to do something which is quite outside the
ambit of the legitimate stage. In a scene
in a surgery the two comedians pose as
doctors and proceed to remove from a pati-
ent’s throat an Adam’s apple which has
become unusually enlarged. They chase the
excrescence all over the patient’s body until
it is finally lodged out of sight behind the
neck. Obviously this feat on the legitimate
stage would be impossible, if not repulsive.
It would be invisible to most of the audience,
whereas on the screen it can be magnified
up to any size you like.
A trouble with a pure “mystery” offering
such as “The Bellamy Trial” (M.-G.-M.) is
that it can be rather boring to those who
BETTY BRONSON, in
"The Bellamy Trial."
have made
the mistake
of first read-
ing the yarn
in novel
form. A. mur-
der is com-
mitted, t h e
husban d of
the murdered
woman is held
suspect, and
the evidence
given at his
trial, exposing
some fruity de-
tails of inter-
locked eter-
nal triangles,
strongly sup-
ports the pro-
secution. As
the case pro-
ceeds, further
details turn
the eye of
suspicion ui>on
others in-
volved in the illicit love-making. And so the
process of elimination drags on until the
inevitable surprise end. Almost the entire
force of the drama depends upon that end
really surprising; knowing who did the
dirty job beforehand, this Showman could
only wait patiently through what seemed a
very “staged” affair. In the circumstances,
instead of the picture’s merit lurking in its
tail, it was all concentrated into the opening
—an apparently authentic news reel turning
out to be an ingenious prologue to the court
case. The movie has other merits, too, but
the fact that the first half is silent, and that
in the rest the hitherto dumb players break
into voice, can’t be numbered among them.
It is a pity that there are not more films
like “Teacher’s Pest,” considering that the
pictures are the weekly pabulum of about
nine-tenths of young Australia. It is a
sheer romp, in which the famous Buster
Brown figures with distinction. You see
him going off to school, followed by his faith-
ful hound, whose face is strangely remini-
scent of a man present writer lent five bob
to a month ago. Buster is the hero of the
school, being the worst imp there; when
pepper fills the air, setting the class, the
teacher and the school board sneezing,
Buster is accused of the crime, and is
brought forward for punishment. In the
meantime his hound has departed to look
for help, and presently returns with a
canine avalanche which overwhelms the
teacher and the board, and enables Buster
to survive, no doubt for fresh escapades in
a later issue. This picture, which is by
Stern Brothers, is not a whit less intelli-
gent or carefully devised than much of the
drama father feeds on. What it lacks is
just what it should lack for juvenile con-
sumption-sentiment.
“Betrayal” (Paramount) is strong evi-
dence that the silent movie still has a
kick left in it. It is an Emil Jannings pic-
ture, remarkable as much for his fine acting
as for the manner in which the other players
in the, cast respond to his lead. The setting,
a snow-covered village in Switzerland, gives
majesty to a story of a few unexalted
persons. A promising love-affair between a
youthful couple is nipped in the bud when
the girl is forced by her parents into mar-
riage with the elderly burgomaster. Two boys
are born, and an average sort of home is
being evolved when the lover, who has been
taken into the family as a' kind of adopted
uncle, professes that he cannot any longer
control his emotion, and tries to induce
the woman to confess to her stout, free-and-
easy husband that one of the boys is not his.
She declines, and the lover asserts that lie
will do so, but fails because the husband is
too decent a chap. Instead, he decides to
go away, but, taking a last run over the
snow together, he is mortally injured and
the woman is killed. It looks like the end,
but the best acting in the piece follows
when .Tannings, as the widower, finds a
letter the dying lover had once written men-
tioning the matter of doubtful parentage. At
the hospital, he demands the truth, and the
dying man indicates the younger boy, whom
•Tannings takes into the mountains and all
but heaves over a precipice. The boy acci-
dentally falls over instead, but is rescued
with the rope that was attached to him
for the mountain-climbing. Then a letter
written by the dying man explains that
the doubtful child is the elder one, and
as the marriage vows had not been violated,
the widower is reconciled to both youngsters.
Drawn out in places, but generally satisfy-
ing and brilliantly photographed.
One of the most effective light comedies
with voices attached that this Column has
seen was “The Instalment Collector” (Para-
mount) , Fred Allen was its leading light,
and his shadow performance was real enough
to extract a snigger from the soberest Chris-
tian Endeavorite. Eddie Peabody was another
American gentleman, who demonstrated that
Debussy and Liszt can be made to sound
very like Gershwin and Berlin when properly
banged over the head with a banjo wielded
by a master hand. Ruth Etting was a
Ziegfield beauty who really looked luscious
enough to make a baldhead in the stalls
send flowers round to the stage door in a
moment of absentmindedness, and the play-
ing by the Vitaphone Symphony Orchestra
of Offenbach’s “Orpheus in Hades” came out
of the can well enough to satisfy those who
hadn’t heard Fritz Hart’s local orchestra
playing the same thing. “Cinesound” was
responsible for all.
The Palette
The public and the orthodox critics have
been singing hymns of hate against Arnold
Shore’s modernistic paintings at Melbourne
Athenaeum, but there is no need to get purple
in the face about them. Shore’s work should
he viewed sideways. At an angle of 45, the
parrots which scream for the intervention of
the Society for Prevention of Cruelty cease
to have any significance and the trees which
demand the woodman’s axe lose any meaning
they might have if looked squarely in the
face. The spectator is thus able to enjoy
Shore’s arrangements of color, which are
frequently fresh and inviting, and his rhythm,
which is often jolly. His art really belongs
to that of the carpet-maker and the chintz
manufacturer. Framed and stuck on a wall
it is seen under the worst conditions.
“F.S.”: A much-needed reform will be
instituted at Vic. National Gallery when the
trustees fill the place of director Bernard
Hall. There will be two appointments—one
to the job of instructing pupils in the art
school and another to that of running the
vast business that the national collection has
grown into. At present the director has to
be an art teacher, and an authority on old
Ming, Louis Quatorze furniture and Assyrian
bas-reliefs, in between dodging the verbal
brickbats flung at him by newspaper
correspondents. The post is a Government
appointment, by the way, the trustees merely
making suggestions.
“Hermes”: Perth is indebted to its Uni-
versity Art Club for the best exhibition of
local work seen for several years. A. B.
Webb was represented by five low-toned,
clear-cut ■water-colors of Westralian land-
scape ; for draughtsmanship, selection, finish,
Webb is unequalled in Westralia. Beatrice
Darbyshire, a pupil of Van Raalte, proved
herself an etcher of promise, and was the
only exhibitor to tackle detailed figure work.
J. W. R. Linton hung well-lighted, if slightly
heavy, landscapes in oils and a fine water-
color ; G. Pitt Morison contented himself
with landscape—in oils, pastels and water-
color; F. Vanzetti showed designs for jewel-
lery; J. MacLeod sent four portrait busts,
well ’ modelled, and designs for other sculp-
ture- and Collot d’Herbois, a painstaking
amateur, contributed creditable water-color
and pastel pictures, and still more creditable
pen-drawings.
The Inky Way
Australian poets and poetasters are to
have a bi-monthly magazine all to them-
selves. Verse it is to be called, and Louis
Lavater will edit it while Percival Serle
looks after the business side.
“Lao-dah” : Melbourne Herald’s new auto-
matic telephone exchange would fill the
requirements of many a country town. There
are 200 extensions and 10 miles of wire in the
apparatus room alone.
Changed its name at the beginning of this
month, the Lyttelton Times, Maoriland’s
oldest newspaper. The first issues of the Times
were printed and published in Port Lyttel-
ton before there was such a place as Christ
church, but for three-quarters of a eenturj
the journal has had its home in the City oi
the Plains. It is now the Christchurch
Times.
“Lao-dah” : The first award of the golc
medal for the best Australian novel of tin
year (1928), made through the Aus. Liter
ary Society by Col. Crouch, has gone tr
“Martin Mills” for his book “The Mont
forts.” “Martin Mills” is the pen-name o 1
Martin a’Beckctt Boyd, and his work is lest
a novel than a history of the a’Becketts, :
famous Victorian family, some of whose pro
sent members resented the publication of tin
love story in the concluding chapters
Boyd is a brother of potter Merrick and tin
late painter Penleigh, and is at the momen
on the Inky Way in London.
“ J. 8.” : The purchase of the Sydney News
by the Sun reminds me of a long-forgottei
yarn. A. reporter was assigned to a race
meeting up-country, where the Governor was
bn a private visit; the office had got the tit
that his Ex. was likely to make an importam
speech at the race dinner. The scribe arrivec
the day before the meeting, and was so cor
dially welcomed that he didn’t wake up unti
next evening. He picked up the racing
results, but could get nobody who knew
anything about the speech. Being familial
with the Gov.’s views, which had been fre
quently trotted out, he vamped them up wel
and wired them away as having been spoket
by Majesty’s representative. Then In
waited, with fear biting at him. Nothing
happened. Eighteen months went by befon
the paper learned that his Nibs had mad<
no speech. It was then too late to chidt
the reporter, but Sam Bennett, of the News
made the best of the business. It becairn
one of his pet stories.


/OSOBK^
*y<xvcc*
peg k
CHARIEI
lOKE(?AGAM
A-'.;-;
,•••/
5
5
ueij.
<>
2*
>
o
❖
-*4
V
-v-
S.* s,
<r>
THE GIFT
ef@kg*£
There’s nothing prettier or more
attractive than the golden-tan
that overlies the roses and
cream—of a smooth cheek and
brow.
The secret of a soft and healthy
skin is half the secret of a
woman’s charm. Simplicity and
health are fashionable to-day:
ladies no longer languish and
swoon. The use of Pears’ —
the purest soap in the world —
will do more to give your skin
the radiance of health than any
cosmetic or expensive beauty
preparation. Warm water—and
the fresh, fragrant lather from
a cake of Pears’—then a dash
of water breathlessly cold, twice
a day: that is the recipe for a
healthy skin 1
TgTT
□
PEARS’ SOAP IS BUT ONE OF THE MANY EXCELLENT
TOILET PREPARATIONS OF A. & F. PEARS LIMITED
P 638
Winner Last Year
J. R. Jeffrey, Kogarah, N.S.W.
This may be your
Lucky Year !
DON’T DELAY
Buy your
TICKET
To-day
Drawn 16th NOV., 1929
Tickets 1/- obtainable
from Local Agent
or direct from
A. W. YAGER, MIC.
Secretary,
Trades Halt
Sydney
<S
\
a
2'' D £4(M>
3 rd £ < 13 < 2
OWOihenPnzed
Queensland’s Greatest Newspaper.
To-day, in the great State of Queensland, the newspaper that
offers to merchants and manufacturers unquestionably the
finest “cover” in the daily paper field is
THE DAILY MAIL,
BRISBANE
Circulation has been proved by unaccepted challenge to be
greater than that of any other Queensland daily.
For rates and other particulars, please apply to
BRISBANE DAILY MAIL, LTD.,
288-294 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Or N.S.W. BRANCH OFFICE,
First Floor, Clyne House, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
§ i
Actual
Sna
The discernment that can ap*
preciate perfection finds perfect
gratification in every cigar
banded with the full name—
“la corona
HALF -A- C O It ONA
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Macquarie”: The train for Tasmania’s
West Coast left Burnie the other morning
with its engine tender packed high with
wood fuel, to .be used on the journey. As
a result of the Newcastle wrangle the Emu
Bay Railway Co.’s supplies of coal are
becoming exhausted, so it has been obliged
to fall back on wood.
$ * * *
“Sprat”: The Norwegians have made a
good thing of whale-fisliing in North West-
ralia, and now an English co. has taken a
lease of the Lacepede Islands with the idea
of utilising the by-products from dugongs,
dolphins and sharks, with turtle soup as a
side-line. Dugong oil is worth 30s. a gallon
in London. Dolphin oil is in demand for
lubricating delicate mechanism.
* * *!' *
“Padraic”: The constant replacing of
sleepers on the Broken Hill-Sydney line
must make no small contribution to the
N.S.W. railway deficit. Seemingly the
department can find no better use for the
rejected stuff than to heap it together ana
burn it. Yet firewood can always command
a price, especially in Broken Hill.
* * *
“Home Market”: Those ninepenny packets
of prunes put by by the soldier-settlers on
the Murrumbidgee (B. 14/8/’29) are already
going well in Sydney ; Central Station and
Milson’s Point are selling about a thousand
a day. “Prisms” mentions that wo buy
prunes from Iraq and China. We also import
raisins from Spain (£3035 worth in the last
year recorded), and dried apples, pears,
peaches, nectarines and apricots from the
IJ.S.A. (£16,157 worth in a twelvemonth).
Yet we have large exportable surpluses of
all these products. What a peculiar people
we are !
“O.P.H.”: Having no use for the potato
by-products plant acquired by the late Hogan
Government (Vic.), the McPherson team is
trying to sell it. The machinery is capable
of manufacturing glucose and starch, but
spuds are fetching such a big price for food
that there are none to spare for by-products.
Hogan paid £1376 for the plant, including
duty, and spent £420 more on getting a
report from Mendelsohn, an expert, on how
potatoes could be treated. Bungaree growers
thought of forming a co. to buy the plant
from the Government and operate it, but
decided against the project.
% $ $ &
“Copabella”: Shop windows filled with
cars, from baby models to great pantech-
nicon trucks, are a commonplace nowadays.
Soon we shall have aeroplanes as casually
displayed. Sydney has given the lead. In
a William-street showroom with windows on
the street, I saw a flivver-model ’plane, all
silver and vermilion, parked among the
sedans and roadsters, and as certainly the
property of the first prospect with the right
length of cheque-book. The thing drew no
staring crowds ; it was too much a sign of
the times.
4 * * *
“FY7”: Brighter days are dawning for
Queensland cattlemen. Reduced rents and
less rigid lease conditions have inspired
them with the hope that they will be allowed
to reap where they sow, instead of the Gov-
ernment grabbing the lot; and markets, both
Australian and overseas, show an improved
demand. The southern States arc becoming
more and more dependent on Queensland for
their beef supplies, and they are taking
kindly to chilled beef. As a delegate said
at a Brisbane conference during Show Week,
“the chilled-meat trade has raised local
prices for cattle, and provided southern
consumers With good beef at reasonable
prices.”
* :|: * *
“Equites”: Yet another warning against
the neglect of Australian horse-breeding has
been issued by a competent authority—in
.this case, General Anderson, Director of the
Indian Remount Service. General Anderson
has come over in person to inquire as to the
dearth of horses for the cavalry and the
artillery, and to combat the fatuous notion,
encouraged by all-informed newspapers, that
there is no market for the nags. Australian
horses, the visitor says, are the most suit-
able for the purposes of the British Army
in India, and in the event of a war of any
magnitude big supplies would be required.
He volunteers the opinion that “if Australia
were ever attacked, horses would be the
country’s salvation.”
* * *
“Flagwagger” : Until it-was delicensed, a
pub in my neighborhood had the entire after-
shift trade of the employees of a near-by
bottle factory. Fresh from the heat of the
metal tanks, the bottle-blowers and their
offsiders would consume vast quantities of
beer, and take further supplies home in half-
gallon and gallon bottles. Acting on a bright
suggestion, the blowers manufactured bottles
of very thin glass a little larger than a
gallon. These “gallon” bottles took in Mr.
JBung, and the chuckling owners thoroughly
enjoyed the extra quantity. They reckoned
they were only getting a bit of their own
back, “strong deceivers” being no mystery
to them.
* * * *
“Green Chequer”: A new method of intro-
ducing cocaine and other forbidden drugs
from the Continent is giving the British
authorities a lot of worry. Homer pigeons
are being used, and as each bird is able to
carry valuable parcels without inconvenience
the menace is serious. During the spring
and summer scores of thousands of pigeons
are employed by genuine enthusiasts in Eng-
land in flights across the Channel from the
Continental countries, and that, of course,
complicates the position.
* * * *
“Caradoc”: Another country smith whose
name is a household word in the Outback is
Hicks of Bowna, a village near Albury
(N.S.W.). A light, cart for laying rabbit-
baits carries Hicks’s fame. The maker re-
mained in Bowna (now the junction of the
Sydney-Mclbourne and Hume Reservoir-
roads) until his business grew too big for
a pastoral village, and he moved to Sydney.


r-rl
The only Car Battery in the World
with Four Years’ Guarantees.
The only Car Battery in the World
tested and certified at the British Government’s Testing Station.
H.R.H. PRINCE OF WALES’ Famous Dictum
“To Adopt, Adapt, Improve ; Sinking Trade Prejudices, Traditional Conservatism ; Have Imagination
and Enterprise; Concentrate on Mass Unit Production, Standardised, Interchangeable and Accessi ) e.
TUNGSTONE’S Chemists’ Original Research Work in Combination with Engineers’ !Lecnred'Brftteh^overnment’ l
striking advice of H R.H. securing for British Enterprise Master Patents of the W°rid. Also secured British oovernme
World’s Record Test Certificate for 96 per cent. Amp. Hour 88 per cent. Watt Hour,
TUNGSTONE “Adopts, Adapts and Improves .” First Inventors’ Vital Discovery of 1859-81
Tungstone has Modernized and Revolutionised the World’s Battery Practices after 50 years’ stagnation.
Tungstone has rigidly adhered to Original Inventors’ basic fundamental principles by making as they did the
Plate and Paste of'Pure Lead. The ONLY Metal that Perfectly, Reliably and Efficiently Stores Electricity
by Chemical Conversion —
The Crux of Generous, Reliable, Self-Starter Power and Storage which TUNGSTONE guarantees to give.
Chemists Original Research leads
Tungstone Chemists after years of exhaustive Research Work have Definitely and h ne *
Scientific Chemical Formula; and Original Processes in Accumulator Manufacture. Tungstone s Engineers have
practically applied the newly discovered Chemical principles by dependably incorporating them into the Only
Non-corrosive Acid Resisting All Metal Battery in the World, with Plates entirely made and perfectly Pasted by
Patented Automatic Machinery.
The latest development of Engineering practice to Machine Die Cast under extreme Hi Pressure is exclusively
used in the complete construction of the Tungstone Battery for all trades and purposes. ’Sf" cfrpnD . t i, Inno-er
Die Casting guarantees perfection of accuracy in measurements, uniformity of weight and tensile strength *
life with complete freedom from indiscernible blow holes or mechanical weaknesses—taults that in all other
Batteries constantly create frequent breakdowns and early destruction.
TUNGSTONE’S Practical Discovery is Far-Reaching
Completely, Reliably and Entirely Eliminates all Dangerous First Charging Risks.
Plates’ Future Working Life Considerably Extended.
WITHOUT COST TO PURCHASER. Tungstone Plates when made at the Works, are Fully Formed also giverl a
Partial First Working Charge. Plates are made chemically and electrically safe. Mecffianicaby secure, tiignest
possible ratio of Storage Capacity is secured during working life. Can be continuously charged at tiign ,
without internally short circuiting any Plate or forcing the Paste out of the Plate Ma 4?" t /.^ n „ P p ]a " t ‘ nrf'
Batteries are purposely undercharged to prevent earlier breakdown of thin made Plates. i S R twhirli
thicker, stronger, than any other Makers’ plate, and constructed to be charged at continuous High Rates (wmcn
we recommend) in preference to undercharging. Very generous space is provided in all otn„r fianery cens
(except Tungstone) for fallen paste, which destroys the majority of all other .batteries.
Tungstone plates, as made, are Tested on Automatic Jogging and Vibrating MachinesElectrica'lyoperatedto
test and prove that Paste cannot be forced out of the Plate. These Machines can be seen working at Lonoon
Offices or the Works.
TuUu Tint Charged * FOUR CONTINUOUS HOURS
The minimum times that Portable Batteries take for First
Charging according to Amp. Hour Capacity is from 24 to 75
continuous hours or longer.
All other Mahers’ Plates (except Tungstone)
are dispatched in an Incomplete, Delicate,
Unreliable manufactured condition.
“ Passing on ” to the Purchaser the many
serious risks of Forming and giving the
First Full Charge.
Also the increased cost of a necessary and exceedingly long slow
first charge which all the World’s Makers insist upon as absolutely
essential. Some are ONLY slightly formed. NOT all completely
formed. NONE are Partially First Charged at the Works as
Tungstone is without cost to the Purchaser.
BRITISH EMPIRE LEAD USED IN ALL TUNGSTONE
CAR AND HOUSE LIGHTING BATTERIES.
No
Bitumen
to
Melt
in
Hot
Climates
m
m
Wm
*
mm
m
m
m
\3
m
tim.
o£cui®si Fi£
efst.is**®^
&s*»
£sf
Of THE
M
first
No
Sealed
Lids.
Nothing
to
Melt
in
Hot
Climates
SYDNEY: A. J. Dawson, M.1.A.E., Sales and Service, 91 William Street (Tel., FL2084).
BRISBANE: Brisbane Cars and Tractors, Ltd., Wickham Street.
MELBOURNE: Hocking & Hadden Pty., Ltd., 208 Latrobe Street.


1
a——
COST
L G itf E A
3
V
15
TS SUCCESS
RESULTS
from QUALITY
wm
mm
\ V.V.'V'i: *W \
\\
rr IS easy to understand the world-wide popularity
of the new Superior Whippet. See and drive the
car, and you will know why thousands of new owners
are responding to the appeal of Whippet s greater
beauty, size and power.
Trim lines and longer bodies distinguish the new
Superior Whippet as the style creation of master
designers. Faster speed and pick-up, with a wealth
of advanced features, make Whippet the mechanical
triumph of leading engineers, while petrol mileages
of 30— —and more—miles to the gallon are common.
See your nearest Willys-Overland dealer to-day
—arrange a demonstration tuo.
" Finger-Ttp Control"—A
single button, conveniently 10~
cated in the centre of the steering
wheel, controls all functions of
starting the engine, operating the
lights and sounding the bora*
r»i new [Lj[ |[ PIPjT FOUR
OVERLAND SYDNEY, LTD.,
148-50 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
OVERLAND SOUTH
AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
62-70 Franklin Street,
Adelaide, S.A.
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.
53-63 Bathurst Street,
Hobart, Tas.
OVERLAND VICTORIA
PTY., LTD.,
117-121 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne, Vic.
ADAMS MOTORS, LTD.,
442 Murray Street,
Perth, W.A.
E. G. EAGER & SON, LTD
Breakfast Creek Road,
Newstead, Brisbane, Q.
NFW SUPERIOR WHIPPET FOURS AND SIXES


Firearms sent C.O.D.
HI-POWER RIFLES will make the
KANGA-ROO THE DAY.
Savage, .22 Hi-power Rifles,
£lO/15/-, £ll/15/- and £l3
Savage 250/3000 Hi-power Rifles,
£3l /15/- and £l3
Mauser 6.5 M/M and 250/3000 Hi-power Rifles,
£l5. With Zeiss Telescope, £24
Mannlicher-Schonnauer 6.7 M/M Hi-power Rifles,
£lB/10/- and £2O. With Telescope, £3O
B.S.A. 303, Hi-Power Rifles,
£ll/15/- and £l4/10/-
Write for Catalogue.
SIL ROHU (Late A.1.F.),
Gunsmith, Importer of High-grade Firearms,
and Fishing Tackle Specialist,
’Phone MA3540,
1438 Elizabeth Street (near Market
Street), Sydney.
For They are Jolly Good Fellows .
RESCH’S
LAGER, DINNER ALE,
SYDNEY PILSENER & STOUT.
RESCH’S
SYDNEY BITTER BEER,
AUSTRALIA’S BEST BITTER.
A nd so say all of us.
Western Australian Distributors:
BURNS, PHILP & CO., LTD., PERTH AND GERALDTON.
[1
Monday to Friday—
A La Carte Dining and Supper
Service
From 7.30. Minimum Charge, 10/-
Saturday, Late Gala Night.
Special Table d’HOte Dinner, 21/-, from 7.30.
From 10 o’clock, Special Supper 12/6; or
a la carte, minimum, 12/6
Delightful Afternoon-tea Dansant,
3 to 6, 4/-. Parties of six up, 3/6.
Saturdays 3.30 to 6.30, 5/-
The Ambassadors New Delightful
Dance Orchestra of Ten.
Melody and Rhythm that makes dancing an
effortless pleasure.
Order Wines before 6 p.m. ’Phone: M 4131.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
Horses from Maoriland formed a fair pro-
portion of the starters at Rosehill on Satur-
day. Some of them strengthened their claims
for consideration at the big meetings ahead ;
others disappointed. Paquito, Limerick’s
stable-companion, proved in the first division
of the Dundas Handicap, seven furlongs, that
he is not immeasurably inferior to that great
horse.. Well in the market at fours, he
shot up on the rails after Holdfast (Z to 1)
had done nearly all the leading and beat the
three-year-old home by three-quarters of a
length in lmin. 26sec.- —good time on the
day, for the track was rather dead. Pagan-
elli (7 to 1), also from.Maoriland, was a
fair third; Fujisan, Aorangi and Ramulus
were next. Ramulus ran pretty well consider-
ing that he was too burly to do himself
justice ; noticing tnis, the ringmen lengthened
his price from threes to tens.
Paquito is now favorite for the Epsom, in
which he has Bst. 91b. —he carried a pound
more on Saturday. Now in his second season
on the turf, though a five-year-old, he has
won three races in N. S. Wales and one in
Maoriland and been placed in his other four
starts—a striking record. Like Limerick, he
is owned by H. A. Knight and trained by
F. D. Jones, and McCarten rides him. He
is undoubtedly brilliant; still, he was decid-
edly more forward in condition than some
of those he beat on Saturday. For the
second division the pencillers demanded odds
of 7 to 4 about Aussie. He had every
chance, but Lord Eudorus and Loquacious
(both 20 to 1) gave him a good start in the
straight and ran past him, Lord Eudorus
defeating the mare by a neck in lmin. 264 sec.
The winner has Bst. lib. in the Epsom;
Windbag’s sister has Bst. 111 b. There was
only 41b. between them on Saturday. When
Aussie beat him Limerick must have left
a leg at home.
The Sydney public had another heart-
breaking experience of Stormy in the August
Handicap. At Moorefield on August 10,
with the going made to order for him, Stormy
finished “down the course” in a race won by
Staroff, a very ordinary performer; on
Saturday he took on a field which included
Bacchus (2 to 1) and romped in three
lengths ahead of the second horse (Lady
Clara), Bacchus being third. Now the in-
and-out customer has come into favor for
the Metropolitan, in which he has 7st. 101 b.,
but he is just as likely to run last in that
race as first. Bacchus finished at a great
bat after being a long way out of his ground.
Holdfast’s second to Paquito was the best
performance among the three-year-olds during
tiie day, but Violin Solo, Woodgcra and Gay
Ballerina showed pace in the Three-year-old
Handicap, running second, third and fourth
respectively to the good-looking Ticino, who
was favorite at threes. Ticino won nicely,
and his form gives him an Epsom chance
with 7st. 51b. He is by Valais—Pereskia.
Violin Solo finished fast after getting into a
bit of trouble. Samuel Hordern may possibly
have a Derby horse in this colt of his own
breeding, but Cathmar (Tippler—Clair
Obscure) looked rather more impressive in
that connection. Nightmarcli, the N.Z. Derby
winner, came home well, and is a stylish
horse. He has 9st. 21b. in the Metrop., and
may win w.f.a. races.
Tidal (7 to 2) gave McCarten another
winning mount in the Parramatta Mile,
which he landed easily from Garrula and
Golden Music. This imported horse is given
a chance in the Metrop. with 7st. 21b., but
he is rather a handful for a boy.
For Warwick Farm on Saturday :
Campbelltown Handicap: Poitiers or Kil-
larney ; next, Luita.
H'obartville Stakes: Holdfast; next, Gay
Ballerina.
Warwick Stakes: Mollison; next, Amounis.
Spring Handicap : Kavalli; next, Bacchus.
Glenlee Handicap: Poitiers or Quince;
next, Lord Eudorus.
* * * *
Albanian, who has won in good English
company, earned encomiums by his Under-
wood Stakes performance at Williamstown
on Saturday. That the Britisher could gallop
was made manifest when he led for a furlong
or two in the Malakoff Stakes at Caulfield
on August 3. Originally trained by M. T.
McGrath, he now is cared for by Harry
McCalman, who landed three Caulfield Cups
for Ben Chaffey with Whittier (twice) and
Manfred. The 1928 Doncaster Handicap
hero, Simeon’s Fort, also has passed into
McCalman’s hands; he, too, belongs to G. L.
Scott. Though Simeon’s Fort accepted for
the Underwood Stakes, he was scratched on
the course.
Possibly because of having drawn No. 15
at the post, Albanian drifted from 3 to 1
to 8 to 1, while Highland, located on the
inner rails, firmed from 6 to 4 to a shade
HIS LUCK WAS OUT.
“Heavens, brat, why didn’t you tell me I was playing the wrong
ball?”
“Never thought you’d ’it it, Missus.”
of odds on. Imported about 15 months ago,
Albanian went amiss when first taken up,
and had to be thrown out of work. It is
surmised that he never would have been
allowed to leave England but for suspicion
of unsoundness, and to rush him for the
Caulfield Cup may be hazardous. However,
he appeared to pull up quite sound at Wil-
liamstown, and McCalman was enraptured
with the display, remarking that if Highland
had been obliged to encircle the field- in
similar fashion he might have been unplaced.
First to move, Highland was permitted by
Billy Duncan to drop back when Switzer-
land dashed to the front. Albanian led at
the end of three furlongs, and things did
not look well for Highland. to
the occasion Duncan forced the favorite
through and vanquished Albanian (who tired,
but fought on gamely) by a long neck.
Jack Holt’s top-notehers are striking form
with remarkable celerity. High Syce, the
former Queensland champion, gained third
honors in the Underwood Stakes, and Royal
Charter was fourth. Second Wind ran third
in the August Handicap, heads separating
placed hox-ses. In the autumn High Syce
was produced for a sprint race at Mentone,
and then put by. Two years ago Royal
Charter appropriated the Underwood Stakes,
the Memsie Stakes, the V.R.C. October
Stakes, the Caulfield Stakes and the Power
Stakes—all at weight-for-age. Since then
he has been out of action until now. High
Syce carries more flesh than his illustrious
stable-mates, and, when fined down in con-
dition, ought to start paying for board and
lodging. He has to concede Albanian 21b.
in the Caulfield Cup. They met on even
terms at the seaside course.
Eurythmic #nd Maple, trained by Holt,
carried the Westralian colors of Ernest
Lee Steere to victory in the Caulfield Cups
of 1920 and 1928 respectively. Will Second
Wind follow in their footsteps? Last season
he was unplaced in the Perth Cup, but
captured the W. A. Derby and St. Leger.
Some critics may fault Second Wind for
lack of bone and lightness of flesh, but he
can gallop all right. For the August Handi-
cap he shortened two points, from 10 to 1.
Second Wind deposed Claronga after enter-
ing the • straight, and led until joined by
Reputed King and Glynylln (6 to 1) 20
yards from home. Then the whips cracked
mightily, and Glynylln gained the verdict by
half a head from little Reputed King, with
Second Wind a similar distance farther
away.
Billy Duncan is making up for lost time.
He won on Highland and Amanthus (7 to
2) in the Three-year-old Handicap and was
second on India’s Hope in a division of the
Welter. Two training successes were regis-
tered by W. Leyshon, with Amanthus and
South Austra (3 to 1), in the second divi-
sion of the Welter.
»i> '•* *l* »!*
For Aspendale Park on Saturday :
Three-year-old Handicap: Greenclotli;
next, Lost Key.
Aspendale Park Handicap: Second Wind;
next, Claronga.
* * * *
The Australian lepping season ended on
Saturday with the Adelaide R. C.’s G.N.
meeting at Victoria
Park. The Steeple
went to M. Robin-
son’s Aides —Rags
gelding Hungarian,
ridden by D.
Wraight; after a
great finish he won
by a head from
Bestman, Barrier
Gold being four
lengths away third.
Hungarian paid
the handsome divi-
dend of £2l 3s. for
£l.
* *
“Hotham” : Fol-
lowing on the select
committee’s report
last year a Vic.
Cabinet sub-com-
mittee has recom-
mended drastic
legislation to deal
with over-racing.
Mid-week meetings
are threatened in
particular, and the
closing of several
courses is sug-
gested. The pony
courses at Rich-
mond and Fitzroy
are among those
menaced with the
axe, as well as two
of the “down-the-
line” tracks, pro-
bably Mentone and
Aspendale. In all,
it iS hoped to knock
off some 50 or 60
meetings from the
outrageous yearly
schedule, which
numbers 143 in the metropolitan area alone.
It is a heroic scheme; the unfortunate part
is that the Government’s position is rather
precarious.
**' * *
“Yarri”: The chairman of the A.J.C.
committee the other day voiced an opinion
long held by stockmen, that many acci-
dents on the racecourses are due to “riding
too short.” The stockman’s length of
stirrup, affording the most comfort to horse
and rider, allows the crutch to clear the
pommel with an inch or so to spare. That
is the natural length; anything longer or
shorter would be very tiring in a day’s work
or on a journey. When stirrups have to be
adjusted, he usually measures with his arm
before mounting. At one time jockeys rode
the same length—until the ugly Tod Sloan
style was introduced. When riding short in
that way, a baulk or stumble pitches the
jock, over the horse’s head, whereas, with
the natural length, he would be properly
balanced to keep his seat and help the horse
to recover. No one does harder riding than
the stockman. He has not only to gallop and
jump in rough country, but ride buckjumpers
and wheel about sharply on .cattle camps.
Busters rarely happen on the run, hut it
he rode in the monkey-hunch style of present-
day jockeys he’d be a hospital case several
times a week.
M.Q. (and Rafferty) Rules
Two great midgets, Vic White, Austra-
lian flyweight champion (7st. 101 b.), and
Battling Siki (7st. ll£lb.), an English boxer
making his first appearance in Sydney, put
up a rattling mill at Sydney Stadium on
Saturday night. At the end of 15 stirring
rounds a points decision in White’s favor
met with a mixed reception. As usual with
little men, the pace was furious, the pair
often standing toe to toe and swapping
punches wholeheartedly. The clever aud
elusive visitor relied mostly on a solid left
hook, but White was always willing to fight
back despite a badly-cut eye, while he fre-
quently made the Englishman miss badly.
White’s left was also his busiest weapon, and
although neither looked like scoring a k.o.
both knew they had been fighting at the final
bell. Siki showed plainly he didn’t agree
with the decision.
* * * *
“Pelican”: Every true “sport” of the type
which believed in taking as little water as
possible in its libations to the athletic gods
will hear with regret of the passing of the
National Sporting Club, in Covent Garden,
once the Holy of Holies of British boxing.
Many famous men were on its books, both
the membership register and that devoted
to chronicling sales of liquid refreshments.
Phil May was one of them, and in “The
Parson and the Painter” he has left a
record of the great bar with its groups of
celebrities, from Frank Slavin to the Prince
of Wales who was later Edward VII. The
rumor that the place has been sold to the
Salvation Army is the biggest sensation since
the purchase of the lurid old Royal Aqua-
rium Music Hall by another religious founda-
tion.
* * * *
Two well-nourished members of the grap-
pling faternity in Allen Eustace (16st. lib.)
and Joe Zikmund (15st. 61b.) went through
the now familiar motions of wrestling
before an apathetic attendance at Melbourne
on Saturday night. Joe made efforts at
cavemanship that left the crowd cold.
After being pinned in the fourth round he
apparently lost his poise in the next, and
dropped the giant Eustace for the count.
However, Allen finished a tame affair off in
the next i*ouud with a realistic dump. On
the same bill, promising local middleweight
Young Palmer (list. 3Mb.) gave Johnny
Priston (list. silb.), of America, a trim-
ming over 15 rounds of stoush.
Footbrawl
The steep banks around St. Kilda’s ground
were packed on Saturday with the largest
crowd they have held for years—about
40,000. It was the only game that counted
much, and the two eighteens hopped in
heartily. While the Saints excelled in mark-
ing and handling, Melbourne was speedier
and better organised. A robust and not tqo
skilful game kept both sides together till
lemon-time. After that Melbourne tired and
the Seasiders ultimately collected 66 points
to 49. Of the rest only the Essendon-Geelong
go provided excitement, the ’Dons scraping
homo with 53 points to Geelong’s 51. Colling-
wood amassed 138 points to North Mel-
bourne’s 61; Richmond ran up 136 to South
Melbourne’s 65, and Hawthorn stressed its
superiority over Footscray (its fourth vic-
tory) by 77 points to 33. Carlton downed
Fitzroy with 108 points to 69.
* - * * *
“Naklioda”: The latest outbreak of savag-
ery on the part of spectators of League foot-
ball in Melbourne has brought forth the usual
strictures, and it certainly is sad that these
expressions of spirit should mar a splendid
game, but there is room for a more opti-
mistic view. The brute in man still exists,
but it is one of the great achievements of
the century that it has been so harmlessly
canalised in sport. Time was when the pro-
fessional bully was an accepted figure in
society, when war was such a. whole-time
occupation that, in order to get the world’s
work done at all, the Church had to impose
a Truce of God. The laying of a foundation-
stone was the occasion for much cutting of
throats, and the burial of live virgins made
a funeral far more eventful than it is to-day.
In countries where there is no organised
sport there is some display of bloodthirsti-
ness to satisfy the innate bestiality of man. In
India and Persia men mutilate themselves at
religious festivals. In Bali the Dutch have
had to permit cock-fighting as compensation
for the suppression of the yearly widow
fryings. The football umpire who gets hit
on the head with a bottle may solace him-
self with the thought that he is the modern
representative of the victims who were bowled
headless down the steps of Mexican temples
and burned a thousand at a time by the
British Druids.
(Continued on page J/J.)
PROGRESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The trainers were kept busy. At one period six
men were receiving- attention.” —Any Monday morn-
inn football report.
Old Nero, loungingdn the porch of Hades one
fine day,
Heard from his post the distant din of
modern men at play.
“The good old days have come again; I
must go down to see.
I wonder just how much they’ve learned
from Ancient Rome and me.”
Thinking of gladiatorial games and wild
beasts leaping high
ITe plodded onwards in his haste to see the
broadswords fly.
Mumbling his old “Thumbs down; thumbs
down !” he reached the neighborhood
Where hectic Fitzcray waged a fight ’gainst
rorty Collingwood.
Into the “outer” pack he went with warm
blood pulsing fast,
Then o’er the field of sunny green a gloating
eye he cast
And saw—a stalwart band of men chasing
a flying ball,
A vicious elbow flashing out, a punch and
then a fall,
A warrior dancing on one leg holding a
battered shin,
A mighty multitude that yelled “You loafin’
cow, ’op in.”
He turned aside, and o’er his face there came
a look of pain.
“This after all I taught,” he said ; and sought
the Shades again.
VICTORIA.
P. T. F.


sdf
**»
smu t % "VT '
x\ ! jk*hu
•V4ki!>iJL>. > h A 4u?-$ ■Jv „
'4'.W
Jv*
... 'V •*,■,»
%
sr_.
n>
p
S
*
L
Popularity Based on.
Value and Performance
LL motordom enthusiastically approves
the beauty, economy and appointments
of Essex the Challenger and the Greater
Hudson. In thousands of demonstrations,
motorists thrill to the speed, performance and
stamina of these fine Super-Sixes. They admire
the colours, lines and fittings, the weatherproof
double-acting 4-wheel brakes and the wide selec-
tion of bodies. Thousands are inspecting them,
driving them and buying them !
Such popularity is not achieved by chance. It is
based upon motordom’s recognition of outstand-
ing value and performance. Both Essex the
ESSEX PRICES AT SYDNEY.
5 Balloon Tyres Standard Equipment.
Tourer (Australian Body)
Standard Sedan (Australian Body)
Standard Roadster (Australian Body)
Coupe (Imported Body)
Convertible Coupe (Imported Body)
Town Sedan (Imported body, with bumper bars)
£290
365
290
385
395
420
Challenger and the Greater Hudson offer more
expensive features than many cars costing far
more. See these two Super-Sixes at your Hudson-
Essex dealers. Inspect the Greater Hudson with
its 14 body styles on 2 chassis lengths and Essex
the Challenger with 7 types of bodies. Then you
will understand the reason for the sweeping popu-
larity of these two great cars.
The
GREATER HUDSON
and ESSEX The Challenger
HUDSON PRICES AT SYDNEY.
5 Balloon Tyres Standard Equipment.
Hudson—l22in. Wheelbase.
Roadster (Imported Body)
Coupe (Imported Body)
Standard Sedan (Imported Body)
Tourer (Imported Body)
139 in. Wheelbase.
7 Passenger Phaeton (Imported Body)
7 Passenger Sedan (Imported Body)
£5OO
535
535
550
£630
775
THE HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY
DETROIT, MICHIGAN, U.S.A.
DALGETY & CO., LTD.
Phillip Stret, Sydney.
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
WHATMORE, McINTOSH MOTORS, LTD.,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
MOTORS LIMITED,
26 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
AUTOS LTD.,
Hay Street, Perth.
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
Hobart and Launceston.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE—BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL DEALER.


m
o
RECIST»
s
W
follow the advice of experienced motorists who
have proved B.E.S. Spark Plugs perfect under
a if .conditions. Equip your car and ensure
etheient ignition. Fully guaranteed. All garages.
Price 4/6.
Manufactured by
Australian Spark Plugs Pty., Ltd.
562 Spencer Street, Melbourne, C.i.
’Phones: F 4947, F 5961.
sd
, o<
rlt 'vw (-e a*^,*
? " s 6“
THE
RENRUT
QUADRUPLE
HAND PUMP
Price, 45/-
c^ C
Sol 0
M ( > rfl '
t u^ ctW '
■rP-T 8 ’
(IFiifc Gauge,
5/- extra.)
p3s>
pat6 T\> r^'’#
If unable to obtain,
write to our Factory
Representative?
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. Box 71, Mel-
bourne, Australia.
fV^A
-Nv.
f >r VH V
\V v«N\V*
The Finest Gun Dogs
In England
are fed regularly on Ken-L-Ration, the
dog food supreme. Rich in food value.
FREE—Sample Tin sent to any address
in the Commonwealth.
CHAPPEL BROS., Ltd.
Full particulars from
W. C. SCHWAB
P. O. Box 1821, Melbourne
Ken-T Ration
OH look,Bert! wk HIT THE „
Little white ball first time t
?"
1 OONT You THINK. INI
CLEVER ?"
G>eriA Tutcrs not our kitty-
it belongs To The nekt
RINK. I '[
Footbrawl
Northern Suburbs, leader in the N.S.W.
Rugby Union competition, was beaten by
Western Suburbs at St. Luke’s Oval on
Saturday, and will have to play a final with
the victors to decide the issue. As North
still leads by a point, West will have to win
outright to' take the Shute Shield. West
won by 16 (3 tries, 2 con. goals and a p.
goal) to 6 (2 tries). Both sides played bril-
liant open football, and there was a large
attendance. Other results were: Manly 28,
Glebe 17; Eastern Suburbs 12, St. George
11; Police 16, Y.MjC.A. 8; Randwick 9,
University 6. In the Combined G.P.S. v.
United Services match, Schools won a great
game, 19-8.
* * * *
'Stand Off”: S. S. Dean, chairman of the
M. management committee, who has
been detained in Sydney through illness, now
happily overcome, states that a Maori side
will probably visit Australia in 1931, if
invited. It is a certainty that they will
be, for the Maoris have always played a
highly popular style of football, and in most
instances have been little inferior to Domin-
ion representative teams. The last time
Henare came this way was in 1923. On that
occasion N.S.W. won all the three Tests
played. Following on the visit of the British
sale next year, the advent of the Maoris
will sustain the interest in international
Lnion football. At the same time, the
Lnions concerned should see to it that clubs
are not relegated to the background. There
has been a tendency that way this season.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: The closing rounds of the
Queensland Rugby Union Competition in
Brisbane give ample evidence of the manner
in which the public is going back to the
amateur game. Three thousand people
watched a recent tussle between Y.M.C.A.
and Valley, a mighty good crowd for a club
match in Brisbane under any code. The
Q-R.L. has long put up its shutters as far as
clubs are concerned, and an inter-city game
or two has been eking out the season.
* * * *
“Hotham”: The Victorian Rugby Union
has had a disappointing season financially.
Better things were hoped for after the Exhi-
bition Oval was secured, and matters were
satisfactory after the All Blacks visit. The
N. game in Melbourne, however, resulted
in a loss, the attendance being far below
expectations based on the All Black crowd.
The inability of the N.S.W. Union to send
down a really representative team had a
good deal to do with the falling off, for the
fact was given plenty of press publicity in
Yarraville. However, the share of the Syd-
ney match profits and a £5O bonus from
N.S.W. are yet to come to hand,, and if
any deficiency then exists steps will be
taken to wipe it out forthwith.
* * * *
The Rugby League grade games in Sydney
also saw the leaders worsted, South Sydney
going under to North Sydney at the Sports
Ground by 14 (4 tries and a goal) to 11
(3 tries and a goal). Play was hard but
not spectacular, handling being very poor.
South showed unmistakable signs of stale-
ness. University won from Glebe by 13 to
5. the Students’ second win of the season.
Other matches resulted: St. George 9, East-
tern Suburbs 5 ; Newtown 19, Balmain 10.
The next round will decide which team will
meet South Sydney in the semi-finals to be
played the following week.
* * * *
“Cash Amateur”: The N.S.W. Rugby
League is having trouble with its coun-
try children. Some have responded to
threats of discipline with derisive assertions
that they will go over to the Rugby Union if
the T,-ague doesn’t take a tumble. The League
has, however, handsomely, spiked the insur-
gent guns by releasing‘an hitherto unsus-
pected agreement with the Union and the
Australian League, each party undertaking
not to accept deserters from the camps of
the others.
* * * *
“Torrens”: South Australia has been in
a state of ferment over charges made by
a W.C.T.U. lady that the double defeat of
the State footballers in Perth recently was
due to a too intense appreciation of the
local beer. In a report pregnant with
the consciousness of innocence the manager
of the side has refuted the aspersion. His
statement that 12 of the team were total
abstainers, and that of three dozen bottles
of beer taken from Adelaide on the trans-
continental train a dozen had to be given
away, at once convinced the League execu-
tive. Theteam was exonerated without
a stain on its collective character.
* * si: s|c
“Hotham”: Melbourne League attendances
have been falling off heavily this season, and
anxious supporters are blaming the increas-
ing tendency to foul and rough play. The
recent game between Footscray and Mel-
bourne was a flagrant exhibition of “elbow-
ing,” kicking and just plain stoush, and
the League is. at its wits’ end to find a way
of dealing with the trouble. One method
that might be tried is to give the referee the
power accorded by the Rugby and Soccer
codes of sending an offender forthwith off
the field. The present practice of permitting
him to play on, to be reported to the authori-
ties later, has long been proved useless. The
continued presence of the delinquent on the
field inevitably leads his opponents to attempt
reprisals, and he and his friends to recipro-
cate in self-defence, if for no other reason.
* * * *
“Magpie”: Being a champion goal-keeper
in Victorian League football is a paying
concern. Gordon Coventry received a cheque
for £5O from Jack Wren recently upon kick-
ing 16 goals in a match, and it is expected
that nearly £2OO will be raised by the sale
of his photo.
Racquet and Bawl
N.S.W. collected the two major events of
the Queensland tennis championships in
Brisbane on Saturday. Jack Crawford won
easily from E. F. Moon in three straight
sets, though the local man ran him to 8-6
in the second. With Jim Willard, Craw-
ford also took the doubles from Moon and
R. O. Cummings by 3 sets to 2, Cummings
showing very well. Mrs. Molesworth regained
the women’s singles for Queensland.
* * # *
“Robot”: When Jean Borotra and his.com-
pany were in Australia a Bulletin corres-
pondent gave an account of the Frenchmen
investigating a demonstration of a machine
for serving tennis balls to players requiring
practice. The tourists were greatly impressed
with its possibilities, and were warm in their
congratulations to the inventor, P. Jephson,
of Victoria. Now comes news that the
gathering of international stars in America
has been enthusiastic in ■ praise of the
machine, and a great future seems assured
for its inventor. The device can send along
any sort of shot required and keep on doing
it until the recipient has had enough practice,
and change over- to another.
* * :!: *
“Iconoclast”: Some thrilling particulars
of great tennis players and their tempera-
mental idiosyncrasies have been given to
the world in an English tennis journal by
Australian Stanley Doust, long quartered in
the Cold Country. Helen Wills, it appears,
takes no notice of a referee who gives an
incorrect decision, or one that the penalised
player considers is incorrect. Tilden is
quite different. He “looks at the offender,
and if looks could kill, the poor man would
be dead.” Senorita Alvarez is also a
“looker,” but has such compelling eyes that
the official has been known to reverse his
decision after her gaze had been fixed on
him “for several seconds”—the poor devil
was probably a married man. Frankly,
is there any other game about which such
flapdoodle could be published in all serious-
ness?
* * * *
“Wirral”: There has been quite a fuss of
late years over the charming young things like
Betty Nuthall, Joan Fry and other flapper
tennis celebrities who have tripped into the
photographic press while still in their teens,
the idea being that this was an unprece-
dented happening. Tosh! At Wimbledon
recently the surprisingly good showing of a
well-advanced matron recalled the fact that
she had been champion of England when a
mere infant of 17. As I write there lies
before me a copy of a Sydney flapper
journal depicting a damsel I knew and
worshipped from afar in Liverpool when
good Queen Victoria celebrated her first
jubilee. The portrait displays Miss Lottie
Dodd, champion of England at 15. As I
recall her, she was an uncommon good-looking
girl. As she appears in the Evening Shake-
ittjp, I have an uneasy feeling that youth is
subject to illusions.
The Nineteenth Hole
Victorian Ivo Whitton put the coping
stone on a great golfing career by carrying
off the Australian open championship in
Adelaide from one of the strongest fields
which has ever mustered for the event, inelud-
ing, as it did, amateur and professional repre-
sentatives from five of the Australian States
and from M.L. His score for the 72-lioles
stroke play was 309—5 better than that of
the bracketed runners-up, Rufus Stewart, of
South Australia, and Frank Eyre, from
N.S.W. His best round was 75, Stewart beat-
ing this with a 73. An 84 in the second
round, however, settled the S.A. man’s hopes.
This is the fourth time the Victorian amateur
has won the open title,, and he has also held
the open and amateur championships of
most of the Australian States.
* * * *
“Marino”: The scratch event for pro-
fessionals in Adelaide prior to the Aus-
tralian open championship produced a great
array of talent, including men from Queens-
land and Maoriland. Rufus Stewart, ex-open
champion of Australia, won, though W.
Bolger, the N.S.W. youngster who was
fourth in “the open” last year, ran
him very close, the cards *for the 18 holes
of stroke play reading 146-147. Both
achieved rounds of 72. Of the Maorilanders,
J. Mclntosh was foremost with 154, while
Carr led the Queensland contingent with 160.
* * * *
“Sandringham”: Victoria, though obliter-
ated in the Kirk-Windeyer Cup games, turned
the tables in the inter-State matches which
preceded the Australian golf championships
in Adelaide. In the morning, the Yarra-
siders beat N.S.W. after a tough struggle
by four matches to three, the win of Eric
Apperly by 2 to 1 from Ivo Whitton, who
is playing superb golf just now, being a
feather _in the Ma State’s bonnet. South
Australia offered a feebler opposition in the
final game, going down by 5 matches to 2.
* * * *
“The McHaggis”: Golf, with its infinite
variations, might be supposed immune from
the ties and deaci-heats that crop up in
other sports with fair regularity. That is
not the case, as the tie in the Australian
foursomes at Adelaide, when Legh Winser
and Ivo Whitton pegged level with F. L.
Bulte and W. J. Fowler, shows. This is
the third dead-heat in this event in the last
four years, and. curiously enough, two of
the quartette, Winser and Whitton, were
partners in the 1927 draw in Melbourne,
when the match was cancelled owing to each
pair having played with the wrong ball.
The leaders in the Adelaide match sent in '
card of 154. Hector Morrison and Nigel
Smith, of N.S.W., were bracketed with
Sloan Morpeth, of Maoriland, and Corn-
stalk Hattersley for second place—another
tie.
* * * *
“Muckadilla Mick”: A Queensland golf
writer, moved to enthusiasm, no doubt, by
the annual saturnalia known in the
northern. State as “The Exhibition,” has
been boldly advocating that no country
visitor should be allowed to retreat to his
fastnesses without having first purchased a
golfing _ outfit. In a way it is a pious
aspiration. Yet even the most hardened
golf addict should pause to think before
exposing the inhabitants of those wide open
spaces where men are men and sheep are
cows to the insidious attacks of the most
hopelessly incurable affliction known to
humanity. They are a hardy lot those
Empire-makers who have their habitations
so far west that the sun has its work cut
out keeping ahead of them, but they are
only human after all. Have a heart, Digger;
have a heart.
* * * *
“Jimmy the Swallower”: I was reading
the other day that an American golfer has
trained a chimpanzee to act as his caddie. It
reminds me of Harry Scattercash, who came
to jackeroo on Speewah Downs when I was
overseer. His people had sent him out from
home for a lot of reasons, of which he him-
self was the most outstanding. Anyway,
Harry was mad on golf, and since even the
blacks refused to caddy for him after they
had seen him in plus-fours he resolved to
train a young kangaroo that was knocking
about for the job. The intelligent little
beast took to the game like a duck to
brewer’s grains, and soon learned to hop out
of hearing when Harry had a bad lie or was
bunkered. This made its end the more sad.
One day the boss, who had been bitten with
the game, asked Harry when he got back to
the house after a round how his card had
read. Harry mentioned a figure, and a
dull thud was heard. Turning hastily, both
beheld the caddaroo in fatal convulsions.
There are some aspects of golf which even
a kangaraddie cannot survive.
* * * $
“Iconoclast”: The proletariat is creeping
even into the arena of golf. Last week the
Suburban Golf Association of N.S.W., a
body of subversive tendencies, resolved that
the game in the State be brought under one
centralised control instead of two big
metropolitan clubs. The constitution of
the proposed body has been drafted on the
lines of the M.L. organisation. The con-
trolling body will consist of 15 members; of
these 12 will come from metropolitan and
suburban clubs and three from country
clubs. The association will consist of 26
delegates, one being elected by each metro-
politan, suburban and country club, and
having one vote for every 100 members in
the club. All affiliated members will pay
a registration fee of 2s.
* * * *
“Voetsak”: The members of the N.S.W.
Automobile Club intend for a day to put by
the enticing pastime of seeing how far they
can make pedestrians jump while they
engage in combat at golf. Concord is to be the
convincing ground and the date Thursday,
September 12. The tourney will be a four-
ball best ball against Bogey on the club
handicap, the limit being 14 strokes.
(Continued on next . page .)
Everyone will regret the tragic circum-
stances attending the sudden end put to the
international billiards match between Walter
Lindrum and Willie Smith in Sydney. The
tourney was nearing completion, last week,
the Australian being 2123 in the lead,
when it was announced that Mrs. Lindrum
had died suddenly in a Sydney private hos-
pital, the match, of course, being abandoned.
The champion’s wife was only 21.


DEMAND FOR SOUND
INDUSTRIALS.
BIG INVESTMENT TRUST CREAiES
OPPORTUNITY FOR SMALL
INVESTORS TO PURCHASE
SECURITIES ON TERMS.
The investing public of many countries are
rushing in to buy holdings in sound indus-
trial undertakings. This impulse is sound
as we have learned that listed stocks and
shares are more readily marketable than is
land or building property. However, so
great has the demand for gilt-edged securi-
ties become that market prices have. risen to
a point where the interest return is gener-
ally less than six per cent, per annum. Ine
Investment Trusts of England and America
have been able, by their particular, form or
organisation and financial practice, to suc-
cessfully carry their shareholders over sued
difficulties. Dividends have been high and
market values exceptionally good.
The Australian Investment Trust, Ltd.,
with a subscribed capital of over ioUU.tHtu,
is now thoroughly established, and is operat-
ing on the Australian stock and shares
markets. The board of the Trust is com-
prised of the following experienced business
men : F. .T. L. Dunlop, Chairman and Manag-
ing Director; Sir Hugh E. Poynter, Bart.,
F R.G.S.; R. Neville Dangar; W. H. Swan-
ton ; and Keith Williams, LL.B. The Trust
announces that special facilities now exist
whereby the investor of small or moderate
means may secure a holding of gilt-edged
securities which can be purchased on terms
by easy payments spread over two years and
bearing a good rate of interest. Investors
should not fail to obtain full particulars ot
this unusually sound investment purchase
plan. Apply to The Australian Investment
Trust, Ltd., 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
—Advt.
Patents.
METHOD AND MEANS FOR
DESICCATING MILK OR OTHER
FLUIDS.
"THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
No. 8823/22 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of his rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith and
Hassel, Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
IMPROVEMENTS IN A FEEDING AND
TAKE UP DEVICE.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
* No. 4169/21 is prepared to negotiate
for the' sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith and
Hassel, Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney. ,
IMPROVEMENT
BEATING
IN A MATTRESS-
MACHINE.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
1 No. 4274/26 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith and
Hassel, Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
WORK-SUPPORTING TABLE.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
i No. 3879/21 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith and
Hassel, Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney. .
AUTOMATIC VARIABLE-SPEED
MECHANISM.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
I No. 3880/21 is prepared to negotiate
for the sale of its rights in the above, or
for the granting of a license to make, use
and vend the invention within the Common-
wealth of Australia on reasonable terms.
Particulars obtainable from Griffith and
Hassel, Patent Attorneys, of 77 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.
THE proprietor of Commonwealth Patent
1 No. 3881/21 in respect of an invention
entitled “Intermittent-movement Mechanism
for Mattress-sewing Machines,” is prepared
to negotiate for the sale of its rights in tne
above, or for the granting of a- license to
make, use and vend the invention within tne
Commonwealth of Australia on reasonable
terms. Particulars obtainable from Gnmtn
and Hassel, Patent Attorneys, of <•
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
INSURE WITH THE
FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY
of Australia, Limited
The progressive Australian
Insurance Company
transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, Workers’
Compensation, Motor Car, etc.
Premiums effected at lowest
current rates.
Head Office:
FEDERAL MUTUAL CHAMBERS,
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
branches in various states.
Winchester Rifle, Model 56.
22-Cal. Long Rifle only
Handles well
and
Shoots well.
fsd
The Rifle
for Small Game
Price, £5. Post free to all parts of
Australia.
The Gun House,
COWLES DUNN,
B 453 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE PATRIOT
I DIRECT MEDIUM Tg WOMEN,
AND ALL BRISBANE READS IT.
Sydney Rep.: H. C. HINCHCLIFFE,
2 HUNTER STREET.
BIRKIYRE'S CLOTH
Ilegd. Trade-mark.
In addition to “BIRKMYRE’S CLOTH”
being our Registered Trade-mark, the
following are also our Registered Trade-
marks, each complete in itself: —
“L,” “OM,” “N,”
“BX,” “H,” “K” and “S”
Any one of those marks will protect
our mutual interests.
'■'GOUROCKEKITD.
373 Kent Street, Sydney.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane, Q.
460 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Vie.
90 Wakefield Street. Wellington, New Zealand
Car and Cycle
N.S.W. Automobile Club’s touring and
reliability contest from Sydney to Canberra
drew the usual large entry, and the
three events which made up the trial, a
reliability test, a dying mile and a hill
climb, were keenly contested in all the five
classes arranged for. A feature of the flying
mile was the time put up by Mrs. .Tones in
an Alfa-Romeo, 47 2-ssec. No fewer than 2o
cars scored full points in the reliability tests,
honors being fairly evenly divided among
the various makes; the Americans did
best with 10. In the class for the
big cars over 4000 c.c., the Yankees had
it all their own way, Leo Spies’s Studebaker
sedan heading the list with 298.28 points out
of a possible 300. The only competitor to
score the possible for the whole contest was
D. H'. Antill in the small-car class.
* * * *
“Whizz”: The much-advertised Tourist
Trophy road-race for cars on the Ards cir-
cuit near Dublin drew a crowd of half a
million people the other day. The race was
over a 400-mile course, which compelled the
negotiation of a comparatively small com-
pass full of sharp bends several times.
The winner was the Italian Carraciola,
who drove his Mercedes Benz, a huge
machine, at an average rate of 72.8
m.p.h. One serious smash occurred when a
car ran into a road-clearing party, killing
one and injuring several. There was general
disappointment when Kaye Don, the British
crack, had to drop out through engine
trouble. Sixty-five cars of all sizes started,
representing Britain, France, Italy, Germany
and America. All had to be stock touring-
cars.
* * * *
“Differential”: Kaye Don, the English
racing motorist, who is to have a fling at
the world’s ground-speed record in February
next, is releasing some details of the pro-
jected go. The car he will use has been
designed by Louis Coatalen to. travel at a
280-m.p.h. rate, developing, as it does, 1000
h.p. The famous Sunbeam engineer has
had to face the problem of planning a stream
lining which, at the tremendous pace of five
miles per minute, will prevent the car from
attempting to become an aeroplane, instead
of a mere ground hog. Coatalen claims that
he has solved the difficulty.
* * * *
“Fitzcray” : The Victorian Light Car Club,
an enterprising body which inaugurated road
racing for motor-cars in Australia on Phillip
Island, is out with another bright idea. This
is the holding of a motor rally next Novem-
ber, the affair being nowadays a highly
popular competition in Europe. Conditions
are that contestants leave Melbourne at 5
a.m. on Nov. 2, and make for Porepunkah,
at the foot of Mt. Buffalo. Each selects his
own route, but must arrive at Porepunkah
by 5 p.m. On the way he must post a letter
at each important point on the journey, and
must send a wire to the director of the rally
at Porepunkah between 10 a.m. and noon.
The competitor must compile a record of
the time and place of each letter posted and
hand it in at the finish; further, he must
file a description of the type of road covered
and the number of his passengers. The
only important omission from the schedule
required seems to be the number of pubs on
the route and the quality of the brew on
tap therein. It is not too late to remedy
this, however.
% % # ❖
“Cash Amateur”: J. Standen, the Olym-
pic amateur cyclist from N.S.W., who re-
pudiated his bond and turned professional
on his return, may be granted an appeal
against his subsequent disqualification as
either amateur or professional. Earlier at-
tempts to appeal were negatived, but, curi-
ously enough, a mail vote from the States
affiliated with the Amateur Cycling Assoc,
indicate that the amateurs desire, in the words
of one of their officials, to give the offender
“British justice.” A conference of the
amateur and professional cycling bodies is to
be held in Melbourne to settle the matter.
As the young man’s only ground of appeal
is that lie was a minor when he signed the
promise he afterwards threw to the winds,
it is to be hoped that he will have full
justice done him.
* * * *
“Sprocket”: Cecil Walker, the N.S.W.
cyclist, who lias been prominent on Ameri-
can tracks for some years, showed some of
his old brilliancy in New York by cracking
the world’s record for 50 miles unpaced in
the American championship event over that
distance: his amazing time was lhr. 42min.
7sec. There were 18 others, including Vic-
torian R. W. Lamb, who was third. The
time easily beat the previous best, lhr. 54
min. 47sec., by J. Lautcrwakser in England
iast year.
Miscellaneous
“Spinnaker”: Australian wood and work-
manship have both a good advertisement in
the 28-year-old 18ft. sailing-boat Mavis,
which is to take the water in Sydney again
this season. Last year her owners considered
she was showing signs of decrepitude, and
covered her cedar planking with canvas. This
has been stripped and a new cedar skin,
3-16th of an inch thick, is being super-
imposed on the original timbers, making the
craft the only one of her class in Sydney with
a double-skinned hull.
* # * *
“Fitzcray”: A. H. Hearndon has won the
amateur billiard championship of Australia
in Melbourne. He is the first South Aus-
tralian to gain the distinction, and though
by no means in the Willie Smith, or even
Hayes, class, is a most consistent eue-
wielder. He reached his 2000 points with
398 to the good from G. C. Sutherland. The
Victorian scored the best break of the
tourney, 126; the ultimate winner’s highest
was 108.
* * * *
“Old Glory” : International eahmplieations
are expected owing to the International
Bowling Board refusing the application of
the Americans for admission. The board
had no other choice, since it is Imperial in
constitution, admitting only Australia,
Canada, Maoriland and South Africa. Why
India is left out is not clear, though it is
probably due to the fact that the pious Hindu
and his Mohammedan brother are usually
teetotallers.
* * * *
“Belinda Bias”: The rolling-pin was
chucked into the Victorian bowling arena, in
a manner of speaking, when the members
of the Sandringham club turned down the
application of sundry aspiring females for
admission with full membership rights. They
rubbed the refusal in with a rider to the
effect that they wished to preserve . their
freedom. Then a bolt from the welkin fell
on them in the shape of the secretary of the
Victorian Women’s Bowling Association. A
telling-off that made many ancient ears tingle
was clinched with the remark that men
bowlers attached more importance to “shout-
ing” every third end than to bowls. That is
hardly correct. If members wished they could
“shout” without having to play bowls.. The
fact that so many of them like to mix the
two sports indicates some measure of regard
for the game that Drake didn’t play.
* * * *
“Fish” : Professional swimming in America
carries better prizes than those to be picked
up in coaching billets (B. 21/8/’29). Martha
Norelius, who has just become an open pro-
fessional, is expected to lift what is con-
sidered the biggest plum in American profes-
sional swimming, a 10-mile go for 10,000
dollars, promoted by an American advertis-
ing firm. The distance is a . bit beyond
Martha’s accustomed beat —a mile lias been
about her limit to date —but she is a hot
favorite for the event.
* * * *
“Hoop” : The Victorian O. A. —the croquet,
not the cricket, show, of course —held its
annual meeting last week, when the future
activities of the robust sport were outlined.
There are now 27 affiliated and 40 asso-
ciated clubs in Victoria, which may be taken
as the headquarters of the game in Aus-
tralia. Funds are being raised to send a
team to England next year to bring back
the ashes, and an All Black side is expected
JOHN SCOTT, president of the N.S.W.
Bowls Association.
to cross the Tasman in December. Great
interest is being taken in this visit, as it is
expected the visitors will leave no. stone
unturned to re-establish M.L. prestige by
avenging the recent triple defeat of their
football confreres at the hands and feet of
Australians.
* * * *
“Vil. N.”; Baseball, alleged to be “as fast
as football and more scientific than cricket,”
is only our old childhood friend rounders dis-
guised in involved rules. After seeing the
latest American team walk all over an Aus-
tralian nine I hereby swear that it is not as
fast as any form of football played in Aus-
tralia —I am not acquainted with the Ameri-
can game. It is faster than cricket —it doesn't
take over a week to finish. But it is no
more scientific than jazz. I should say it j.s
about the only dry thing in the United
States.
* * * *
“Aigburth”: The fifth Test match be-
tween England and South Africa was drawn,
leaving the home players in possession of
the rubber —they won the only two games
decided. Sent in on a bad wicket, .England
went for 258; Sutcliffe made 104 and the
Transvaal slow bowler Vincent took 5 for
105 After a bad start, the tourists declared
at 492 for 8, veteran H. W. Taylor notch-
c. LILBURNE, captain oj Richmond, one
of the leading teams in the Vic. Foot-
ball League.
ing 121. England lost 1 for 264 in the
second essay, Sutcliffe tacking on 109 n.o. He
has turned the double-century trick in the
Tests twice —the only batsman ever to do so.
# * * *
“Tenth Slip”: The N.S.W. cricket authori-
ties, deciding that discretion has its vic-
tories, have resolved to postpone considera-
tion of the proposed alterations in the rules,
including that relating to the much-debated
subject of l.b.w. The principal change sug-
gested was that the batsman be given out to
a ball not pitched on the wicket, if he should
stop the ball from hitting the wicket with
any part of his person; it was also pro-
posed that the side batting first be
allowed a maximum first knock of four
hours, and that a hit over the boundary
should score eight runs. The question is
really a Federal one. There is no use in
one State setting up a new set of rules for
itself, since it would not apply to others.
In the same way the new rules could not
apply to any section of cricket ; they would
have to be of universal application, from the
vacant allotment to the Sydney Cricket
Ground.
* =■: *
“Shrewsbury”: A lot of people straining
at the gnat of altering the rule relating to
leg before in cricket have ignored the camel
of precedent. A hundred and fifty years
ago a batsman preventing the ball hitting
the wicket by stopping it with his shins
or other portions of his anatomy was out,
whether it pitched straight or not. It was
not until 1836 that the Marylebone C. C.
ruled that for l.b.w. the ball must pitch in
line with the wicket. If the suggested change
is made it will only be a return to the
spirit of our fathers.
* * * *
“Old Q.”: The inter-State cricket season
opens at Brisbane on November 8, when
Queensland and N.S.W. begin their Sheffield
Shield engagement. The same date will see
Gilligan’s Englishmen tackle South Aus-
tralia at Adelaide. The tourists will only
play Victoria and N.S.W. after that, though
Queensland has been clamoring for a visit.
The trial match, Australia v. The Rest,
starts on December 6in Sydney. The Board
of Control is to meet in Melbourne on Sep-
tember 12, and Queenslanders are hoping
that it may yet be able to wangle them a
game against the Britons before they leave
for Maoriland.
# # * *
“Dmdalus”: That aeroplane speed record
of 322 m.p.h. by an Italian airman (B.
21/8/’29) is already ancient history. On
a trial run in one of the British entries
for the Schneider Cup a few days ago
Squadron-leader Orlebar, skipper of the
British team, “easily” achieved 350 m.p.h.,
his ’bus being a Rolls-Royce-engined super-
marine. And the Britons have a Gloster-
Napier which is kept under armed guard, and
is so sudden that no one has yet been able
to find out just what she can do. A con-
servative estimate is 400 m.p.h.


2f
nC
¥
* \\
11
K,
v
N=
f j?!»
rffo
TE pS
£R
irofiM
tf# 1 *
napX
[CT'°
History
11
•rC
sSPSEam CO.
(1)
Dictionary of the English
Language.
408,000 vocabulary terms,
giving tlie spelling, pronunciation,
definition and etymology of words,
with illustrations. Full treatment
of the thousands of New Words.
Divided Dictionary Page, giving the
largest amount of information in
the most readable form for easy
reference.
For every Home and Office
where accurate information is
valued —for parents, business people, readers,
students, educators, writers, etc.
The Supreme Authority for a hundred Years
Webster’s New International Dictionary.
Answers all IJour Questions
Seven great reference works combined in the
of its kind in existence. All world knowledge in a single volume.
(2)
Dictionary of Geography or Gazetteer
of the World,
giving spelling, pronunciation and most sought-for
information about nearly 32,000 places in the
British Empire and Foreign Countries, with the
latest census figures. Also length of Rivers,
height of Mountains, etc.
Dictionary of Classified Illustrations.
The 6000 illustrations not only appear in the text
to explain definitions more clearly than could be
done by words, but many of them are also brought
together in a Classified Selection, for purposes of
comparison, as for instance in Anatomy, Archi-
tecture, Astronomy, etc.
Dictionary of Foreign Phrases and Proverbs.
Also Abbreviations and Contractions. To facilitate
the convenience of consultation, these Phrases and
Abbreviations all appear in Alphabetical order
in the main vocabulary.
(5)
Dictionary of Names Noted in Fiction,
Mythology.
Scripture Proper Names, and English Christian
Names, with the information most sought for on
these subjects. All in Alphabetical order in the
main vocabulary.
(6)
Dictionary of Biography of Noteworthy
Persons,
giving spelling, pronunciation and most sought-for
information about nearly 12,000 eminent persons,
including the names of both the living and the
dead, with dates of birth and death (if dead'-
also Nationality. Profession or Occupation, etc.
(7)
Compendium of the World’s
History.
from earliest times to the present.
With exhaustive Topical Index to
nearly 35,000 References, giving an
answer to a question in History as
readily as the spelling or defini-
tion of a word; also Historical
Maps, Colored Lithograph
Plates, etc.
NEW WORDS.
How does the electron tube
in a radio set work?
Wlmt is the Freudian
theory of dreams?
What is psychoanalysis?
What is rayon made of?
Why are vitamins needed
in food?
What is a highjacker?
LITERATURE.
What was the real name of
“Lewis Carroll”?
Who created “Mrs.
Grundy”?
What is the story of
“Everyman” ?
Who was “Mrs Mala-
prop ?”
What was the Holy Grail?
LAW.
What was sake and soke?
What is a demurrer?
What place in law is filled
by John Doe?
What is an easement?
PHILOSOPHY.
What is Nietzseheism?
What were the essentials of
Kant’s teaching?
What are the teachings of
New Thought?
What did Plato mean by an
Idea?
HISTORY.
When and by whom was
the largest Pyramid
built?
Who was Frederick Barba-
rossa ?
What is the historical
meaning of cabal?
When was Pompeii de-
stroyed ?
GEOGRAPHY.
What is the highest point
of the Pyrenees?
Where is Yap?
What is a geographical
mile?
Where is the Mnrman
Coast?
What is the azimuth?
BUSINESS TERMS.
What is demurrage?
What is a bonded ware-
house ?
Which expenses are termed
“overhead charges”?
Why is an underwriter so
called?
What differentiates stock
from shares?
SCIENCE.
What are the properties of
radium?
What is relativity?
What is the nebular
hypothesis ?
What is a Coolidge tube?
What is the purpose of an
induction coil?
MEDICINE.
What are vitamins?
On what theory is psycho-
analysis based?
What are the characteristic
symptoms of smallpox?
What are the bones of the
arm ?
MISCELLANEOUS.
What is a Jacquard loom?
Do the Mormons allow
plural marriages?
What is the derivation of
“blighty”?
What are the Seven Won-
ders of the World?
What is the “missing link"?
POLITICS.
Who invented socialism?
What is a soviet?
How did the word “candi-
date” originate?
MYTHOLOGY.
What is the story of Pro-
metheus ?
What does Thor’s hammer
represent?
Who was Prester John?
%on interesting
than a storyoom
LATEST EDITION.
Printed on strong book paper of
the highest quality. Size, 12| x
9| x5l inches. Weight, 171 b. All
Human Knowledge for easy refer-
ence.
QUESTIONS are oppor-
tunities for added culture;
Evaded, they breed slip-
shod disregard for accu-
racy. Answered with
definite facts, they en-
large the mental stature,
increase the power to
learn, equip us for more
effective living. The whole
range of human know-
ledge is embraced in
WEBSTER’S NEW IN-
TERNATIONAL DIC-
TIONARY. It is en-
cyclopedic in scope—con-
cise, clear, pointed in
treatment.
You will seldom need to
go beyond this one book
for all essential informa-
tion on any subject of
world knowledge, whether
the question comes from
the child at school, the
friend interested in music,
the reader puzzled about
some famous character in
literature, the housewife
studying period furniture
for interior decoration, a
comrade bent upon discus-
sing philosophy, or an
associate seeking a clearer
conception of some point
in banking, commerce, or
finance.
A few shillings first pay-
ment brings you this
book. But send no
money now. Just sign
and send the Coupon.
FREE
487,000 ENTRIES IN WEBSTER’S NEW
INTERNATIONAL DICTIONARY
OVER 408,000 WORDS AND PHRASES
12,000 BIOGRAPHICAL ENTRIES
32,000 GEOGRAPHICAL SUBJECTS
35,000 HISTORICAL REFERENCES
6000 Illustrations. 3000 Pages.
Sir Sidney Lee (Professor of English Language
and Literature, University of London).
“. . . . ‘Webster’s New International Dictionary’
is indeed a library in itself, and no collection
of books, whether small or large, should be,
in my opinion, without a copy.
beautiful
'pectuswtth
m
WAVERLEY BOOK CO.,
12 Spring Street, Sydney.
G.P.O. Box 3287 PP.
Send me Free Prospectus of Webster’s International Dictionary
and particulars of your easy payment plan. It is clearly understood
that this request does not obligate me in any way at all.
Name
Address
Bulletin, 28/8/'2l>.


Columbia
■V
‘YOUR, HOME
lerdi's
masterworh lulJTCDlidtci
has at last heen recorded
in complete form/
by Columbia
AGAIN Columbia has produced a masterpiece
l in complete opera recording. For years the
most popular work in the whole Italian reper-
toire, “ Traviata ” is ever fascinating by its
wealth of beautiful melodies, so expressive of the
pathetic story. This performance is truly glori-
ous in warmth of tone and dramatic intensity.
The principals are famous and brilliant artists;
the great La Scala chorus complete the perfec-
tion of the rendering. The recording is one of
Columbia’s finest achievements, and English
opera-lovers will take the keenest delight in the
fascinating prose translation specially written
for it by Mr. Compton Mackenzie.
What could be more delightful than to hear Grand Opera
in the comfort of your own home, following the words
of the singers in an English translation which is, in it-
self, a joy to read ! What better entertainment could
you offer your guests? Or your children ?
In ART ALBUM, with special Booklet of Italian words and
English prose translation by COMPTON MACKENZIE
Complete (15 Records) ... £4/10/-
OTHER OPERAS
COMPLETE ON COLUMTIcA
tA-V*
P 4<Um
cc/
CAVALLtR'jA
3
can*
RUST
.0
MCO"®
&u
rov-
c °U)toß)
Records
J 5
rhor» s )
CQIUMBI*
%
ik
Obtainable at oAll Leading £Music Stores
ALWAYS
USE
COLUMBIA
NEEDLES .
Columbia
Records
EL'ECTRIC RECORDING - WITHOUT SCRATCH.
MAGIC NOTES
TRADE MARK.
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS.
N.S.W. : Grafonola, Ltd., 39 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
VIC.: Columbia Distributors (Vie.) Pty., Ltd., 300 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
QUEENSLAND: King & King, Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane.
A. E. Harrold, 123-125 Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
W.A.: Phonographs, Ltd., 671 Hay Street, Perth.
S.A.: South Australian Phonograph Co., Ltd., Gilbert Buildings, Gilbert Place, Adelaide.
TAS.: Columbia Supplies (Tas.) Pty., Ltd., Launceston, Hobart and Burnie.


Under
Royal
Vintage 1920.
To H.NL
GeorgeV
CHAMPAGNE
iviwl
Australasian Agents—
Swift & Company U mitad
SYDNEY
champagne.
Reims
#?& i-
PELLI3SON
Cognac Brandy.
lo YEARS OLD.
Australasian Averts—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
ust a Moment from Everywhere
The Wentworth —Australia’s most efficiently-managed hotel
—is handy to theatres, shops and banks —yet delight-
fully situated away from the noise and roar of the eity.
Personally conducted by Mrs. H. Maclurcan, Governing
Director, it is the centre of all smart gatherings, and the
Mecca of visitors who appreciate comfort, convenience
and excellence in cuisine.
Wire or write your reservations.
Ohe
Church Hill,
Sydney.
Mi
AUSTRALIA’S
HOTEL DE-LUXE
After your shampoo
m
a touch of Howland’s
Macassar Oil will re-
place the natural oil
which the shampoo re-
moved. The oil is very
necessary, for it pre-
vents thin, falling hair
and gives a perfect
healthy gloss. Comb
the oil well into the
hair.
Macassar Oil
112 Guilford Street, London, W. 0.1.,
ENGLAND.
From all Chem-
ists, Stores and
Hairdressers.
Red for dark
hair; golden for
fair or grey hair.
A WAMAN'S
LETTER
Kayser
SLIPPER
HEEL
SILK HOSIERY
The League of Volunteers, who run the
Blinded Soldiers’ Cafe in Pitt-street, held
their third yearly dance last week to aug-
ment their funds, and the good cause lured
over 300 dancers to the Arts Club. Kings-
ton! Smith, before he hopped off for Eng-
land, left word that whoever sold the most
tickets for this, his pet charity, was to be
handed a posy from him. The posy developed
into a basket of gold and blue spring flowers,
the handle threaded with a ribbon, on which
the flier’s name was scrolled. Jean O’.Shanesy,
a young vice-president, with 50 tickets to
her credit, was the girl who carried it home.
Another of the week’s dance successes was
the flutter at the Turret Theatre. This was
the first birthday party of the earnest little
company of Thespians, and they gave it in
their own Milson’s Point home. The dancing
went on in the theatre and the stoking in
the basement. One hundred and fifty rolled
up, including Dame Hughes, who was presi-
dent of the committee.
Sylvia Watson, of Kensington, said the
time-honored “I will” to Dr. Ernest Baxter
from a snowdrift of tulle at St. Jude’s last
week. The bride, who has been secretary
of the Excelsior Red Cross branch for three
years, was cheered off the slips by numerous
girl friends, some of whom had massed the
church with arum-lilies. Harry Burrell, of
platypus fame, handed Sylvia to the altar,
and Dorothy Horn ’maided in floating daffodil
georgettes. Mrs. L. Watson hostessed the
subsequent reception at the Wentworth, in
a frock of black chenille georgette collared
with Arctic fox.
The will of the late William Macleod, so
long managing director of the Bulletin, has
been_ proved at £231,063. Of this an income
of £5OOO a year goes to his widow, formerly
Conor O’Brien, the writer for many years
of this Letter, an income of £lOOO a year
each to his two daughters, and one-fifth of
the residuary estate to son Ronald, until
recently Melbourne manager for the Bulle-
tin. Each of the three lots of grand-
children draws £250 a year. To the testa-
tor’s old friend Tom McMahon, the Bulletin
Co.’s former popular secretary, who started
as a young man with the paper and retired
last year, fell a legacy of £2OO. Death
duties will be in the neighborhood of £50,000.
The Town Hall echoed to its rafters
Arthur Cocks’s Good-by-ee to the Y. Emma
Yirgos. It wasn’t really Arthur Cocks’s
solo. It was a concerted number, in which
the president and directors of the Y.M.C.A.
led the theme, with hundreds of the Virgos’
Sydney friends to join in the chorus. Mr.
lirgo, now chairman of the Y.M.C.A. British
Commonwealth Union, was for many years
general secretary of the Sydney branch and
although it was seven years since his last
visit to Sydney his memory has been kept
green. He and his wife are off to America
by the Niagara on the work of this amaz-
ing association, whose 10,000 branches are
spread throughout 55 countries and count
a million and a half members.
. How far does a .sister or an attendant
in the Royal Hospital for Women at Pad-
dington walk in a year, and how many pairs
of ward shoes does.she wear out? The
great pile covers seven acres and the new
building alone has a floorspaee of 50,000
square feet. This part of the institution,
which provides accommodation for 110 patients
besides being equipped with its own operating
theatres and staff quarters, was opened by
Health Minister Dr. Arthur last week, and
over 1000 visitors listened to his speech.
The Paddington is the largest hospital for
women in the State and the most important
of the institutions controlled by the Benevo-
lent Society.
Musical Sydney was stirred by a wedding
of grand-piano proportions last week. The
hero was Ernest Lashmar, manager for
l.hnppells, and the lady who promised to play
hfe s duet with him, no matter what leaves
the fingers of time might turn, was Rene
Cato, his secretary. St. Mary’s blessed the
knot, which was tied by Father Bartlett.
Bride’s sister Muriel, the bridegroom’s
brother Bert, Claude Kingston and Will
Caspers were among the guests who later
made merry at the ’groom’s flat at Darling
Point.
5 When Vice-Chancellor Wallace, of Sydney
’Varsity, was Professor of English at the
sister-establishment in Melbourne one of his
star students was Isabel Hodgson. The
young lady, with an M.A. and passport
attached, tripped back to Sydney from Japan
the other day, after four months of teaching
the young Nipponese idea to shoot in Eng-
lish. Miss Hodgson studied Italian at
Oxford, after tutoring at Melbourne Uni.,
and called in on Italy before leaving for the
land of the cherry-blossom.
The Pymble Golf Club brought its ball
to town. The Ambassadors was the links
trodden by just a comfortable 350 dancers.
A shower of ping-pong balls that bounced
down like hailstones from the ceiling caused
a general scramble, for three among them
bore the magic lettering P.M. or G., and
whoso picked them up went home the richer
in golf balls. There was a lavish display
of blooms on every table, while a small
poppy farm must have gone to the decora-
tions about the pillars and stairway. Club-
captain W. H. Boreham was one of the
leaders of the revels, and, supported by Mrs.
Boreham, who trailed water-green chiffons, lie
hosted a merry party of dancers. Club-
president Dr. C. Charlton brought his lady,
handsomely bound in black and silver.
Black was also the raiment of Mrs. Bernard
Riley, wife of the club champion; while Mrs.
White, the Associates’ president, wore ivory-
embossed georgettes.
A treasure hunt with a deserving purpose
will start off from the Art Gallery at 10.30
on Sunday, September 1. The object of
this combined motor picnic and search for
the elusive is to finalise the Golden Drop
Appeal in aid of the T.B. Sailors and Sol-
diers’ Association. La Corniche, Mona Yale,
will mark the end of the journey, and here
golf, surfing, tennis, dancing and billiards
may be indulged in.
Now that the last thrippenny from the
Journalists’ Ball has been counted the A.J.A.
Benevolent Fund is the richer by £BB3 15s.
9d. The ball was held at the Wentworth
on June 29, and Lady de Chair handed over
the cheque to chairman T. W. Spencer last
Tuesday.
The French Alliance has among other
functions arranged a ball at the Wentworth
on Monday, September 2, in honor of the
Commander and officers of the visiting
French cruiser, the Tourville. Premier
Bavin has accepted an invitation to be
present.
Naomi Waters, the intense-looking girl in
this picture, is one of the Turret Theatre’s
most promis-
ing actresses.
She has ap-
peared in sev-
eral of the pro-
ductions at the
Milson’s Point
It e p e r t ory
Centre, and
made quite a
hit in Gol-
doni’s “Mine
Hostes s.”
Romance was
waiting for
her at the Tur
ret, too; eight
weeks ago she
an d Richard
P e n n i ngton
met within its
walls, and last
week at the
theatre’s birth-
day party the
announcement of their engagement caused
the stir of the evening. Richard comes from
England, and in his spare time collects first
editions and rare manuscripts.
This Letter has been away helping the
Central Tablelands with its shearing and
noting the emerald flush which has sprung
to the cheek of every hillside since the
recent rains. It left the wattle-trees around
Merriwa a softly stirring golden glory
through whose plumes the sky burned like
sapphires. Dalkeith, the Fred McMaster
holding; Llangollen, with its old colonial
cottage homestead in grey stone, built by
one of the numerous Traill clan as far back
as the ’eighties, and now the home of the
Reggie Staffords; the Busbys’, the Jim
Elders’ and Will Cullen’s miles of paddocks
all seem to indicate a year of plenty ahead.
Barbara Littlejohn, with her father, has
been a recent visitor to the district, and
the two made the home of her bridegroom-
to-be their headquarters. Here Barbara
successfully tried out the culinary art she’s
been acquiring at Dilbhur.
Last summer’s hat, be it ever so good,
won’t serve unaltered for this season’s sunny
days! There’s something in the line of the
brim, inclined to float backward, but cut to
avoid scraping the nape, that no last year’s
hat can imitate. Some of the rolled brims
give a distinctly Spanish senorita look to
the wearer, and, of course, the sou’-wester or
swallowtail brim is going to be epidemic—
it’s rather easy to wear. Baku straws are
once again “in,” and some flops in this good
material that look spineless and demoralised
in the hand become very sporting and tailor-
made on the head—one in deep mustard
straw, trimmed with a navy band about its
crown, was mentally ear-marked, as was a
natural Baku by Reboux. This was almost
a scuttle bonnet, and was trimmed with
vellum satin ribbon brought across the cut-
away back and finished off with the Reboux
bow at the side. The primrose path has
proved as slippery and as full of pitfalls for
millinery as for humans. The crop of yellow
hats has been its own undoing. In every
shade of primrose and daffodil and wattle
they bloom before the gaze in all the ready-
to-wear departments and the plate-glass
avenues off Liverpool and Oxford streets, but
in the quiet little showroom, where every
model claims to be the work of a master
hand, they shudder into the dimmer corners,
giving place to lacquer red, currant red, deep
nasturtium or the deep sunburn straws. One
little set in natural Baku which made this
Letter blink was composed of a handbag,
envelope-shaped, of the straw and fawn-
lizard skin, and a tiny droop Baku hat banded
with the same skin. The lot could be yours
for 40 guineas.
The latest shoes for wear with summer
frocks are called lawn shoes, and are of
white or natural poplin or linen, suitable
for golf and tennis or just getting ready for
a header into the surf. Others have fantastic
and Cubist designs flaming on the light back-
ground. Still others that go straight to the
flapper’s heart are affairs of Assam silk in
all colors to match summer frocks, and are
embroidered with Masonic-like emblems in
contrasting silks. These are for the walk-
about, as they have leather soles and a fair
depth of heel. Beach shoes with heels are
both strapped, plain and criss-cross or laced,
and are as multi-colored as the rainbow.
It has been decided to found a memorial
to the late Mrs. Bogue Luffman, and, follow-
ing the proposal of Mrs. Mary Gilmore, a
definite fund will be established, “the interest
on which will form the Laura Bogue Luff-
man Memorial Prize. The competition will
be literary; the subject will be set for each
period decided upon by the executive in
charge of the fund.” This allows the widest
field of choice for subject, prevents regimen-
tation of ideas, and does not restrict the
memorial to a single State or to a limited
body.
Brig.-Gen. G. M. Macarthur Onslow and
officers of the Ist Cavalry Division are hold-
ing their third annual ball at Paddington
Town Hall on Friday, September 20. The
secretary, Lieut. Malloy, 21st Light Horse,
Victoria Barracks, Paddington, will supply
any further information.
Popular concert-manager Jack Griffiths
arrived home last week after a survey of
music and musicians in two continents. Jack’s
friends are giving him a welcome home in
song and story at the Arts Club on Wednes-
day night next. George Portus, of Beale’s,
is organising the affair, and pass-in checks
can be obtained from him on payment of
so slight a sum that this Letter would be
embarrassed to specify it.
The Prince of Wales returned from France
to Hendon, 'a recent cable mentioned, after
spending the week-end with friends at a villa
in Le Touquet. It didn’t add that the friends
were the Earl and Countess of Dudley, Aus-
tralia’s ex-Governor-General and his second
wife, the statuesque Gertie Millar, of Gaiety
renown. Originally the visit was timed for
an occasion when the Prince was to take part
in a solemn war-memorial ceremony, but
some critics saw a certain amount of incon-
gruity in combining the joyous week-end
and the memorial service, so the former was
postponed. But the Prince kept his engage-
ment with the Dudleys at the earliest oppor-
tunity, and doubtless found the lovely Gertie
Millar an excellent hostess.
The Mothercraft Exhibition will occupy
the Town Hall on October 10 and 11.
Demonstrations of the instruction of children
in play and duties and a display of home-
crafts for women will be a special feature.
The exhibition is being held during Health
Week and will take the place of last year’s
Health Exhibition. The organising com-
mittee make an appeal for babies’ and child-
ren’s garments, • for fancy work, and for
articles suitable for mothers and little ones.
These will be offered for sale and the pro-
ceeds will be devoted to the Royal Hospital
for Women, and Scarba, the Welfare
House for Children at Bondi. All parcels
should be addressed to the secretary, Mother-
craft Exhibition, c/o Benevolent Society of
N. S. Wales, Thomas-street, Sydney.
Another voyager to Europe is Daphne
Dean, who teaches dancing at the Conserva-
torium and trains ballets in the Russian
manner. Daphne hopes to bring back the
nucleus of a Russian ballet for Sydney.
The nurses of the South Sydney Hospital
beckoned 300 of their friends into the
Wentworth last week for their annual
dance. Flowers and the hospital’s red and
white made an inspiring background for the
fluttersome frocking. Matron Grant wore
a benignant “On with the dance” smile as
she smoothed her own handsome black laces.
Exhibition dances by Carl Thomas and
Marie Ducker were the star turn of the
evening. Hospital secretary C. W. Harri-
son and Dr. R. W. Murray, medical superin-
tendent of South Sydney, were notables in
the gathering; Joy Moore Smith and Miss
L. Reid were the secretaries.
One enterprising host, by name Trent-
hardt, has put his sign out on a guestery at
Heron Island, on the Great Barrier Reef.
Brought up to the tourist business in his
native Switzerland, he marvels at Australia’s
apathy about what his little country regards
as a great industry. Thousands of tourists,
with pockets full of money, are looking for
new sensations in places where they can be
warm in winter, and the Riviera and Cali-
fornia and Honolulu have been getting those
people for years. The Swiss tourist expert
knows how they pine for something newer
still, and after looking round he pitches on
the Barrier Reef as the spot that offers more
natural advantages than any other in the
whole wide world.
Herewith the latest May Moore picture of
Dr. Mary Booth, one of the most widely
known among Sydney’s war-workers. She
founded the
Soldiers’ Club
and was in
charge of it
for many
years. Later
she formed her
war-time assis-
tants into the
Anz a c Fel-
lowship of
Women, to
whom the
Empire Ser-
vice Hostel
at Miller’?
Point owes its
existence. This
works for the
benefit of the
new settler
and his family,
while its off-
shoot, the Em-
pire Service
Club, is run iu the interests of the boy set-
tler. Dr. Booth, who was also one of the
founders of the Women’s Club and the
Centre for Soldiers’ Wives and Mothers, is
now setting out on a holiday journey in
Europe, and will attend the Town-planning
Congress in Rome.
The society which works for the Adult
Deaf and Dumb in Sydney has done much
for our afflicted brothers and sisters in pro-
viding them with a welfare centre at 5 Eliza-
beth-street, where their evenings may be
spent in social intercourse, with a hall where
religious services are held on Sundays, a
club room with billiard and ping-pong tables
for the men and a sewing-room for the
Women’s Guild. Now a cottage home for
their aged and infirm and a flower farm for
the unemployed claim consideration. Mel-
bourne has a lovely flower-farm home at
Blackburn, which has been selffsupporting
since its opening. South Australia has the
Angas Home, where employment is found for
deaf mutes who turn to it; and the aged have
a comfortable home for their last years. And
Queensland has a home which provides work
for the unemployed.
A dancing studio in Sydney is still mar-
velling over the sense of rhythm displayed
by a recent pupil. A nearly-middle-aged
sheepfarmer from a remote quarter of Maori-
land, he stepped into the studio looking
very robust and friendly and murmured
that he’d come for his first lesson in jazz.
On went the gramophone-disc, and directly
the girl partner came to holts with him and
gave directions she found him stepping
out right on the beat —not merely on the
target, but hitting the bull’s-eye every time.
The sense of rhythm is about the hardest
thing to impress on most beginners. “You
must be a musician,” said the girl. No,
he wasn’t, nor was his mother, nor his
father. Well, where had he acquired his
amazing accuracy in timing his step right to
the beat? “That?” he said. “Oh. I got the
sense .of it long ago from the Maoris and
their music.” Then, in a burst of pride: “I
can beat out a haka as well as any Maori
chief who has lived in a pah all his life.”
Which somehow serves as a reminder of
the sunburned old lady of 70 from out west
who patronised this scribe’s favorite baths
last summer. Without any lessons, and
although she had never seen the ocean till
last Christmas, she taught herself to swim.
It was hardly a Fanny Durack stroke,
but it carried her the length of the baths.
When she first came, the instructor told one
inquiring client, the old dear had paddled
about in the kiddies’ basin. In five days she
could keep afloat there, so in she popped
to the deeper pool. “Of course, I always
keep an eye on her,” he explained, “but
she’s never once flown an SOS.”
The Southern Cross Younger Set will hold
a Springtime Revel at the New Oriental,
on September 4. The proceeds are for the
upkeep of the Southern Cross cot at the
Crown-street Women’s Hospital. The presi-
dent is Ollie Hotchkiss, the hon. sec. Miss
A. Nelson and the hon. treasurers Mrs. E.
Frasa and Mrs. E. Teesdale.


11l :: :
sM:S
m
HI
WMI
ss
m
mm
H
Si
Ik#
J
1
• v '■ ■ •
i ■
¥ 8 % Is &’’■<!*
mm m
H
m it>
‘
2&5&3
ifiSs
: ■
!£ 3
JMk ?
■HR
IPS'
■US
lllpllßll
-
i
. I . .
-»- . .
w j
i
I :; ||
©
* r £~i
HHfIBI •
mami
*P|lllJMJ|jlßi
J
i§lp ifc4 ** <s ’“
CHAHACTCIL
TO differentiate between things
possessing merely beauty as
the style of the hour interprets
beauty, and those possessing
character, is to differentiate
between most other cars and
Vauxhall.
The character which Vauxhall
possessed 25 years ago still exists
in the Vauxhall of to-day.
Always keeping step
with the growing de-
mand for luxury, for
style, for ever im-
proving performance,
General Motors
[Australia] Pty. Ltd.
Brisbane : Sydney : Melbourne
Adelaide : Perth
I # f
mm
*
lltliSl !»
:
Vauxhall has yet maintained that
rarest and most desirable asset...
character!
And it is to character —in prefer-
ence to the passing fads of fashion,
that the discriminating motorists
of the world pay tribute, by making
Vauxhall a foremost choice in the
fine car field.
Visit your local dealer —examine
Vauxhall’s character
and its luxury, and
have its performance
proved to you.
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL
DEALER.
WARRANTED FOR ONE YEAR
Convenient payments can be arranged on
the liberal G. M. A. C. Terms Plan.
H
he maopov-ec
20-
VAUXHALLSIX
-of a lon4 Blue Blooded line
METROPOLITAN DISTRIBUTORS:
Brisbane: Metropolitan Motors Limited, Adelaide Street
Adelaide: Mann's Motors Limited, Franklin Street
Sydney .• Boyd Edkins Limited, Phillip Street
Perth: Master Motors Limited, Milligan Street


THE “WOMAN’S MIRROR
Contains everything that women should
know —from kitchen to drawing-
room, from the cradle to old
age. It is the most
remarkable three-
penny-w o r t h
ever printed.
PUBLISHED EVERY
TUESDAY—Price 3d
<r
FREE PATTERN
EVERY WEEK
Food
BefdL XBi.UK Mark
fretful
backward—delicate /
“I have a Home for young
and delicate children, and
every fresh child which
comes under my care is at
once put on a diet of
Benger’s Food, for I find
that by far the best food
I have ever tried.”
•— Matron.
Write for booklet to; —BENGER’S
FOOD, Ltd., 350 George St., Sydney
Sole Manufacturers:
BENGER’S FOOD, Ltd., MANCHESTER, Eng.
PARADISE PLUMES
BY GILBERT MUNRO TURNBULL
JllujFraJiorvj- by O
Synopsis : Returning to New Guinea
after a holiday in Sydney, Stephen
Blake, District Magistrate, is intro-
duced to Lesley Rowan by Professor
Hicks, an anthropologist, who is visit-
ing New Guinea and had become
acquainted with the girl on hoard ship.
Blake, warmly attracted to her, is
about to confess his love, when she
tells him that she is going to marry
Harry Merton, a planter of Akupaka
Bay, the district in which Blake’s out-
station lies. Blake knows “Flash
Harry” Merton well, but he keeps his
knowledge from the girl. Meanwhile,
Jimmy Glover, holding court as Assist-
ant-Resident Magistrate, imposes an-
other fine on Merton for cruelty to his
native laborers, and learns that the
native girl, Loana, who had been Mer-
ton’s mistress and had borne him a
son, has been returned to her village,
while the son. has been sent to a mis-
sion school. Glover, fearing for the
white girl who is coming to marry
Merton, orders his native sergeant to
see that Loana is kept away from
Laubogi, Merton’s plantation. Blake
forces himself not to disillusion
Lesley over her fiance, and tries to
cheer her by telling her she will like
Tod Lorimer and others. The voyage
ended, Lesley marries Merton and
on the way to his plantation they call
at Tod Lorimer’s holding. Lorimer,
now a rich man, has a half-caste
daughter, Moira, whom he practically
offered to Blake as a wife, but the
offer was rejected. Sam Turner, an
outcast, is a local identity.
• CHAPTER IX ( Continued ).
THE whaleboat was under way. Lesley
Merton, tense, breathless, was lean-
ing forward in her seat studying every
sweeping curve and dip of the land. This,
she told herself, was the real New Guinea;
this the real threshold of her wonder world.
She felt a sudden pity for the city-
dwellers, chained to their desks, their
factories and their warehouses, whose lives
were a wearying round of toil and travail
and disappointment. What was there in
the world more wonderful than this primi-
tive corner she had found? This was New
Guinea—unbelievable, unforgettable; this
was her Enchanted Land.
Her eyes were sparkling when she turned
to Blake.
His eyebrows were knit into a frown,
and from time to time he cast uneasy
glances at the two white-clad figures stand-
ing motionless on the jetty. In particular
lie regarded Jimmy Glover with a curious
mixture of pleasure and misgiving. Why
had not Jimmy boarded the Siai? His
failure to do so was, to say the least, un-
usual. There was nothing of the dissembler
in Jimmy Glover’s make-up, he reflected
grimly. Jimmy had no feeling for Merton
save one of unbounded contempt—Merton’s
airy account of their last encounter made
that sufficiently clear. His attitude could
therefore bear but one construction. Jimmy
would have no truck with the man he so
thoroughly despised, and he was too honest,
too straightforward to pretend otherwise.
Then Jimmy must be dealt with promptly,
decisively. He must be made to envisage
the situation through his (Blake’s) eyes.
He
“You are very silent, Stephen. And as
for you, Hal, if you don’t stop fingering
your moustache I shall scream! What is
there about that tumbledown little jetty
you both find so fascinating?”
Blake, taken aback, gave a guilty start
and flashed a warning to Merton.
“You were complaining of the heat just
now, dear lady,” he declared lightly. “There
are other disadvantages. May I say that
there are serpents in your Garden of Eden:
mosquitoes and centipedes and scorpions,
and all manner of crawling things that bite,
and creeping things that sting?” A shadow
fell across his face. “Nevertheless, you
will be very happy here. We who have
taken root in New Guinea”
“Who dare not pack up and get out, you
mean, Blake,” Merton interposed. “My one
and only aim is to make what I can, cash
in, and get out.”
“You’re speaking heresies, Hal,” his wife
said plaintively. “In your heart, you know
that”
“Sorry, Kitten,” continued her husband,
half ashamed of his burst of irritation.
As the whaleboat swung in towards the
jetty, Blake stood up, and, stepping lightly
from thwart to thwart between the oars-
men, took up a position in the bows.
Jimmy Glover was no physiognomist, but
as a rule he had no difficulty in reading
Blake’s face. To-day it was impassive, im-
penetrable, and there was a strained look
under the eyes. Glover thrust out a hand
as the whaleboat touched, and, gripping it,
Blake sprang ashore..
“Look here, Jimmy,” he whispered under
cover of his greeting, “I don’t want any
fuss, but this feud of yours with Mer-
ton”—
“Is dead and buried, old man,” Glover
interrupted.
Blake stared at him steadfastly. There
was no mistaking his subordinate’s sincerity.
An odd light leapt into Blake’s eyes and
he grinned.
“Good man!” he breathed with immense
relief. “Gave me rather a jar, your remain-
ing ashore.” He lifted an eyebrow. “How
does old Tod stand?”
“0.K., Steve—but handle him carefully.”
Blake nodded. He shook hands cordially
with the old man, who was now staring
with amazement at the girl in the whale-
boat.
“She’s on’y a kid, Mr. Blake!” he mut-
tered. “And as pretty as—as paint. ’Ow
did she come to take on with—with ’im?”
Old Tod Lorimer was very silent when,
introductions performed, they made their
way to the Residency. Not until they were
seated in cane chairs on the verandah, wait-
ing for the luncheon gong, did he open
his lips.
“P’r’aps, Ma’am,” he said, addressing
Lesley, “after kaikai you and your ’usband
might like to come over to my place and
look round and ’ave some tea before y’
go. ’ome.”
There was silence. A faint color showed
in the old man’s white face, and there was
something of appeal, of anxiety in his faded
eyes.
Lesley laughed gaily. “I should just love
it, Mr. Lorimer,” she replied.
Blake’s relief was unmistakable.
“Gabubu,” put in Merton drily, “is one
of the show places of the bay. It is well
worth seeing, dear. We shall be delighted.
Tod.” He looked directly at Lorimer as he
spoke, and his lips curled,
“Furthermore, Ma’am,” went on Lorimer
diffidently, his eyes on Lesley’s face as if
her fresh young white womanhood appeased
a secret hunger of his own, <fff any time
you ’n’ your ’usband want a bit of a change,
Moira ’n’ me’ll always be glad to ’ave you
at Gabubu.”
“You flatter us, Tod,” said Merton.
Blake nudged him viciously. “Don’t be
a perishing idiot, man!” he hissed under
his breath.
“You are very kind, Mr. Lorimer, Lesley
replied with heightened color. “We shall
be very pleased to come.”
Tod Lorimer was sucking the stub of
a pencil. He held a notebook on his knee
and his face was contorted into a painful
frown.
“Deer Moira,” he wrote at last. Ive
give Merton and his Mrs. a invite to
afternoon tea. And if you laff, my girl, I
don’ kno’ but what I won’t take to you
with a lawyer-cane.—Your loving Dad.”
Late that afternoon Lesley Merton
stepped into the launch that was to take
her on the final stage of her journey; that
was to take her home.
She sat back in the cockpit, her hand
trailing over the side.
“I think I like old Mr. Lorimer, Hal,”
she said. “He is quite a—quite a—how do
you express it? Quite ‘another kind,’ but
he improves wonderfully on acquaintance.
And his attitude to that poor girl, his
devotion, his utter-self-forgetfulness, is
pathetic, really.” She paused and looked
curiously at her husband. “You are not
very friendly with Mr. Lorimer, are you,
dear?”
Merton shrugged. “Hardly,” he replied
drily.
“I thought not, dear; yet I quite under-
stand.” Lesley’s eyes grew thoughtful.
“Stephen Blake does not seem to share your
prejudices, does he, Hal?”
Merton gave a little laugh. “Of course
not, Les. Why should he?”
Lesley looked troubled. “I’m afraid I
don’t understand you, dear—quite. Why
shouldn’t he?”
Moira.
“My dear child”—Merton brushed her
hair lightly with his lips—“don’t you really
‘savee’?”
Lesley shook her head. “What is there
to savee, dear?”
Merton lighted a cigarette. “In New
Guinea, my dear,” he declared a little
oracularly, “it is a mistake to judge men
and—er—things by the ordinary standards
of social life down south.” He darted a
quick look at his wife’s face. “Moira Lori-
mer will be a rich woman some day, and
Blake has only his pay.”
“Hal!” There was surprise, disbelief and
something else less easy to define in Lesley’s
startled gasp. She shivered a little. “How
—how can you suggest such a—a beastly
thing?” she said chokingly. Her face
cleared as she saw that her husband was
laughing. “You’re not in earnest. Of course
you are not. You’re joking, Hal?”
Merton bent down and kissed her. The
odor of strong drink was heavy on his
breath. She must not be censorious. Hal
had been with his friends all day, and
they had toasted him too many times.
Merton swept her into his arms unmindful
of the staring boatboys. “Goose!” he said
softly. “Dear, absurd little goose!
Lesiey pressed her face to his breast, all
her love for him welling up in her heart.
And so she came to Laubogi.
CHAPTER X.
In Which the Stage is Set.
It is the hour before the dawn. Not a
breath of wind is stirring; the air has a
chilly edge to it; the village slumbers.
The mountains are swathed in a fleecy mist,
it lies heavily over the swamps; it hangs
like a pall over the forest trees; it envelops
the village huts in spectral mystery; it
enshrouds the ravi— the longhouse—that
crouches like a giant many-legged alligator
in the middle of the village guarding the
ancient secrets of the tribe.
The air is laden with the pungent fumes
of smouldering husks, blended with the
sickly-sweet perfume of flowering milk-trees,
the taint of rotting vegetation. There are
sounds diverse, weird; mosquitoes drone in-
cessantly, crickets chirp, frogs croak, and
always there is the muffled undertone of
surf on the distant reef. Now and then a
pig grunts somnolently; a dog whimpers;
from the nipa-thatched, high-peaked huts
comes the sound of heavy breathing,
punctuated with the fretful wailing of a
baby and the crooning voice of a mother
as she comforts her wakeful child.
The day dawns.
Natives crawl through the low apertures
which serve as doorways and squat on the
platforms in front of their huts, yawning,
stretching. The men rattle ebony spatulas
in carved lime-gourds, and take betel-nut
and shreds of pepper bark from twine bags
slung about their necks. The women rake
up the embers of the fires, and soon a haze
of blue smoke hangs over the cooking-pots.
The village becomes animated. Spindle-
shanked little boys with distended stomachs
shoot tiny arrows at the prowling dogs;
small girls in wispy grass kirtles fuss round
their mothers as they work over the cook-
ing-pots. The sun is now clear of the
mountain tops, rising in a cloudless azure sky.
It is day.
The figure of a girl appears on the plat-
form of a house rather larger than its
fellows. She glances quickly from right to
left, then leaps to the ground. For a
moment she stands posed, a living statue
in polished bronze; then, with a. swift,
rebellious gesture, she swings swiftly, lithely
through the village to the edge of the sea
Slim-built, straight, supple and free-
moving, she is beautiful as a young brown
goddess, this Papuan village belle. She has
discarded the clumsy fibre petticoat of her
people and wears only a loincloth of gaudy
print that reaches barely to her knees.
From the waist up she is entirely nude,
but so perfectly is her glossy skin tattooed
that on the mind it has the effect of cloth-
ing.
She sits hunched upon the shingle, bare
brown arms clasping bare brown knees,
and her black, long-lashed eyes smoulder
with a curious mixture of yearning and
hatred.
The girl sits as if turned to stone —rigid,
motionless. Her face is set like a still,
brown mask; only her eyes seem alive, and
they are burning now—burning with bitter,
unrelenting hate—and they are fastened un-
blinkingly on the roof that shows distantly
between the trees.
“Loana!”
The girl starts. A large-boned, truculent-
looking native in the dingy uniform of a
village constable walks heavily across the
shingle.
“The sun is high above the mountains,
woman,” he growls, “and I am sore with
hunger.”
The girl bows her head. Then she
straightens, and shakes her head in sudden
revolt.
(Continued on page 51.)


When you come to
SYDNEY
You will find at Usher’s every essen
tial to the enjoyment of your visit
Hotel service that is homelike
cuisine of rare excel-
lence, and that
friendly hospitality
which you desire.
Telephone and run-
ning water in all
rooms. Book accom- |
modation early.
Bed
and
Br^kfa St
hrjff
Special tariff or inclusive terms.
lUh
to
r
HOTEL
OPP. THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
’Phone 86511 (10 lines).
Cable & Telegraphic Address:
“Usherotel,” Sydney.
fsd
, GUSSET COURT
A dainty shoe in Havana
Brown Glace Kid with
panels and overlay on
tongue of brown suede.
Pump soles and tiffany
heels
Write for
Catalogue “X.”
ADDRESS
LETTERS
MAI L
ORDER
f
135 KING ST< o *Macnaughh Quality Shoes
52 MacleaySt.
Limited
GREENKNOWE AVENUE, POTTS
POINT
( Located, within the City Boundary, seven
minutes from G.P.0 .)
The New Private Hotel, consisting
of 150 Rooms, is now open and
features Two-, Three- and Four-
room Suites, each with Bath; also
Single and Double Rooms. Central
Heating, Running Water and
’Phones installed in each room.
Unsurpassed Harbor Views.
Weekly inclusive tariff,
from £5/5/-
Daily, from
Telephone: F 2161 (8 lines) ; Tele-
graphic address: “Fifmac, Syd-
ney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Buckler's
Elizabethan
Tea Rooms
[?]
The State viee-regals will return from their
overseas holiday in time for the Melbourne
Cup. Stonington will be aired to receive
his Ex. and Lady Somers, who are due here
by the Naldera on October 28. This year
the Union Jack has floated but little from
either Federal or State Government Houses,
for the Stonehavens have been voyaging
too.
Mrs. Elizabeth Bleazby, who has been
elected a member of Brighton City Council,
is a daughter of the late Thomas Bent, who
was Speaker of Vic. Assembly in 1892-94
and Premier from February, 1904, to Janu-
ary, 1909. Bent was a Brighton Councillor
for about 40 years, land while lie wa,s
Mayor for the last time Mrs. Bleazby was
Acting Mayoress. She has done a heap of
philanthropic work, and for more than two
years has been a justice of the peace. She
is, very like her father, who passed out 20
years ago.
Colonel D. D. Paine and officers of the
A.A.S.C. mess camped for a few hours
at the Plaza, St. Kilda, on Thursday night,
and many friends joined them in syncopated
gyration. Captain W. Randle lion, secre-
taried the jollo.
The Old Students’ Association of the Uni-
versity Conservatorium gave the hand of
welcome to pianist Jaschg Spivakovsky. Pre-
sident Sutton Crow was supported in his
greetings by J. A. Steele, T. Brentnall and
Lindsay Biggins. Mrs. Spivakovsky, who
is a South Australian girl, wore a sparkling
white gown beneath a gilded opera coat and
smiled her thanks for a presentation posy.
Fiddler Constance Ziebell, with Gladys Smith
at the piano, provided some music.
A popular orchestral concert at the Town
Hall on Saturday night doubtless diminished
the attendance at Jascha Spivakovsky’s first
recital, but the house was full of apprecia-
tion. Jascha, who has run rather to flesh
since he visited us about six years ago,
smiled at his patrons in friendly fashion from
the Bechstein and gave generously of encores.
Listeners included Dr. and Mrs. Ellery, Mrs.
Tliring, Mrs. John Tait, Mrs. S. J. Fraser,
Mrs. James Purves, and Valerie and Ninette
Turck, not to mention bunches of local
pianists.
An effort is being made to purchase radium
for St. Vincent’s Hospital. Whenever the
precious stuff is required, a bit has to be
borrowed from some more fortunate institu-
tion, and such is the store set on it that its
conveyance to and fro almost requires an
armed guard. About £3OOO is needed to meet
the hospital’s modest requirements.
The Masson lady, who, through the Over-
seas Girls Club of the New Settlers’ League,
has made many arrivals in a strange land
feel at home, has found it necessary to
resign her position as president, which she
has held since the inception of the club.
Souvenirs of her much-valued work have
been presented to her. A reading-lamp was
a memento from conveners and helpers, and
the girls gave a handsome handbag.
Wattle Day collectors were sorely tried
on Friday in. their effort for the Children’s
Welfare Society. Only those who were
posted in arcades or under shelter of some
sort could make any headway, for it rained
and hailed mercilessly in the city and even
snowed a little in some of the suburbs.
Streets were drenched and deserted, and by
lunch-time further collecting had, by per-
mission of the Gaud Mayor, been postponed
to Friday of this week. Still, some hundreds
of pounds were netted, for stall sales alone
reached somewhere about £250. In many
cases where flowers specially supplied had
proved unsaleable, they were despatched to
the hospitals.
There is a great revival here of tapestry-
weaving, an art which belongs to that period
when the fair sex fainted without provocation
and spread full skirts about their ankles. The
tapestry frame seems all wrong resting upon
an exposed silk-stockinged knee, while a
shingled flapper, smoking a cigarette, traces
with wool and silks on canvas some Biblical
scene or staid historical episode.
Mrs. Grace Officer has again decided to
cross the ocean, this time with the intention
of settling abroad. • Last month Theresa
Officer, who has been an active worker in our
betterment organisations, left to visit a sister
inclined to linger in London. Their brother's
widow, who follows them, is a daughter of
the late surgeon Tom Fitzgerald.
Organisers of charity shivoos and appeals
have almost unanimously adopted the bait
of a free trip as a means of money-making.
Though the odds against gaining such a
prize are usually a bit worse than 1000 to 1
the notion is proving very popular. Now a
New Guinea voyage, the gift of Burns Philp,
will go to the purchaser of a luckily-num-
bered button, which will be sold on Button
Day in connection with the Partially-Blinded
Soldiers’ Appeal on September 27. A free
sea trip to the Harbor City is offered to
swell the patronage of the Homcepathic Hos-
pital Ball at the Plaza, St. Kilda, on Sep-
tember 19.
Though we are being told that large hats
are coming back for summer wear a returned
tripper declares that Frenchwomen will have
none of them. A horsehair cap is now their
idea of smart headwear, pulled well down
on hair slicked back and draped over the
right cheek. The nose-veil of last season,
now making a tardy appearance in our
midst, has descended to the chin, and is a
constant accessory to the brimless hat, for
the Parisienne is far too keen a judge of
her charms to face a daylight inspection
without its aid.
The Oaklands Hunt Club meeting at
Moonee Valley encountered weather that was
about half and half,, sunshine and chill rain.
The chairman of the M.V.R.C., Alister Clark,
had a double lot of presentations to make.
Firstly, there was the prize of a canteen of
cutlery and silver to be passed over with a
gold-mounted whip to H. Betton, who won
the Hunt Club Steeplechase on Welcome
Stranger. Next, W. Knight, a member of
the O.H.C. for 40 years, who was Deputy-
master and Master for many years and is
now retiring in favor of the younger genera-
tion, received a gold cigarette-case, sleeve
links and a pair of binoculars.
A Collins-street mannequin display of spring
frocks and hats was held on a wet, gloomy
day. Much has been heard of the “new
figure,” but it turns out to be merely a
matter of a Closer-fitting bodice and a longer
skirt. The long, straight, slim lines remain,
possibly because the transition to curves,
long heralded, cannot be imposed without
due warning. Pale yellow, lime and green
were the colors mostly represented in the
frocks and hats at this parade—certainly
very appropriate to the season for which they
are intended. The patterned materials were
charming, small designs in satin and simi-
lar fabrics being the vogue, but in chiffons
and such-like transparent materials large
floral traceries were favored.
The lady with the Pompadour coiffure is
Mrs. Guthrie Plante as she represented The
Woman’s Mib-
kor at the
A d v e rtising
Arts Ball the
other day, car-
rying off the
prize for the
best advertis-
ing charac-
te r. Mr s.
Plante, who is
the wife of Dr.
Guthrie Plante,
came from
England sev-
eral years ago.
Her father, the
late A. J. P.
Farina, art
conn oisseur
and linguist,
was quite a
famous Lon-
doner. A con-
sulting engi-
neer of Newcastle (the English one), he
served first in the British Navy and then
in that of Spain. Courageous conduct in
preventing a ship from foundering gained
him the Cross of Naval Merit presented by
the then Queen of Spain and the Star of
Isabella, which carries the title of Don, a
unique distinction for an Englishman. Dur-
ing the Italian War of Liberation he served
on the staff of Garibaldi. Rembrandt made
the picture.
The Manunda, latest addition to the Adel-
aide Steamship Co.’s passenger fleet, marks
a new stage in the advancement of comfort
in inter-State travel. Bidden by the general
manager, F. Bridgman, and his wife and
Captain C. V. Mackenzie to a dance aboard
before the liner’s third trip to Cairns, about
200 Melbourne people were enabled to
inspect the ship. The punkah-louvre system
of ventilation installed seems an improve-
ment on the electric fan, and the cabins are
distinctly airy. There are no smells and
no grime, and satin slippers trod the engine-
room gratings and galley floor fearlessly, an]
chiffon frocks gathered no spots. An air of
cheeriness and brightness' is given to the
passenger quarters by light wood panellings
and the use of many mirrors and windows.
The first-class lounge, panelled in oyster-
grey . sycamore with touches of blue and
draperies of bois de rose, has furniture up-
holstered in light flowered cretonnes. The
large dining-saloon has ivory-tinted walls to
set off lapis-lazuli blue padded chairs, and
the cream floor covering is bordered to match.
Indian laurel is used in the smokeroom.
There are a couple of private suites, and the
one- and two-berth cabins, like all the others,
have a hot- and cold-wftter service. Second-
class passengers can find nothing to complain
of in the pretty lounge and smokeroom with
a bar attached. They also enjoy an attrac-
tive dining-saloon. Children are catered for
with a playroom whose light pine walls have
a double frieze of animals and nursery
rhymes. Toys and kindergarten furniture
are supplied.
At the party Mrs. Bridgman, who wore
a black and gold brocade coat over a similar
gown, brightened with roseate touches, gave
greeting with her husband and Captain
Mackenzie as the guests stepped upon the
flag-enclosed starboard side of the deck, where
there was dancing. Other shipping firms were
represented by the Percy Aldertons and Mr.
and Mrs. P. E. Potts. E. R. Russell, general
manager of the Bank of N.S.W., was there
with Mrs. Russell, who wore trappings of
pale-gold lace. Lieut.-Col. Fethers was
accompanied by Mrs. Fethers, who was
arrayed in black lace. Mrs. George Russell
was in black chiffon; Audrey Woinarski
sported an old-world frock of flowered silk,
and Kathleen Rogers Thomson wore red
ninon with a starlight glimmer about the
bodice. Mrs. V. Elliott’s tulle-flounced frock
was of pale primrose hue. Captain G. D.
Williams, _ who is deputising for Captain
Davis while he is exploring Antarctic seas,
and Maoriland’s Trade Commissioner, 11. J.
Manson, and Mrs. Manson were others who
cast an approving eye on the new liner.
Looking out of this window is Prof. J.
Alexander Gunn, M.A., B.Sc., Ph.D., for the
last six years
a member of
the professorial
staff of our
Uni., and some-
time a Fellow
of Liverpool
Uni. At the
end of this
month a Lon-
don publisher
will scatter his
new work,
“The Problem
of Time,” a
historical and
critical study
of what H. G.
Wells calls the
“fifth dimen-
sion.” This
imposing work
is Prof. Gunn’s
fourth impor-
tant contribu-
tiori to the world of thought. His first book
was “Bergson and His Philosophy,” and
later caine “Modern French Philosophy,” the
preface to which, by way of returning a
compliment, was written by the famous
Henri. Prof. Gunn studied French at the
Uni. of Paris, and, less academically, in a
dug-out during the Great War. A Lafayette
camera caught t.he likeness.
The education committee of the Victoria
League continued its series of lectures last
week with “The Arts in Australia —a Plea
and an Indictment,” by Will Dyson, which
provoked lively discussion. At the close a
portion of the audience adjourned from
Kelvin Hall to the league’s headquarters in
the, Auditorium buildings for more talk,
coffee and cake. The duties of hostesses fell
to Mrs. Arthur Hordern and Rita Watson;
the Maudsley lady, who wore black and gold
brocade; Mrs. Alan Newton, whose beige-
tinted chiffon frock was topped by a bridge
coat of wine-colored velvet; and other mem-
bers of the committee.
By cable from New York her relatives
have been informed that Vera Bedford has
been engaged by the Metropolitan Opera Co.
of New York, and will make her debut in
September.
Edith Onians, when the last mail left,
had reached London, and was enjoying the
hospitality of Lady Stanley, whose house-
party was made up of visitors from this end
of the world. Miss Onians sipped tea at
Lady Stradbroke’s party, to which only Aus-
tralians were bidden, and at the Clarendon
reception greeted Governor Somers. The Gov.
made her known to Mrs. Baldwin, who, like
Miss Onians, is interested in city newsboys 7
welfare.
Dr. and Mrs. R. Allan, who have been
enjoying a calm year on Nauru Island, are
expected back in September. Kathleen
Roach, who has been staying with her
sister, will return with the party, and Mrs.
Norman Tout, another sister, is leaving
Quondong, her home at Wahgunyah, to give
a welcome to the returning ones, who will
make a temporary home in St. Kilda.
Claire Aytoun on arriving in England
went to Scotland to call on her aunts.
It was a brief visit, as she had an appoint-
ment in Sweden with Mr. Nelson and his
dfiughter from Papua, who made the crossing
with her. After enjoying the Scandinavian
scenery the party intend returning through
Denmark and Holland to the British Isles.
Eileen O’Keefe, who teaches the art of
speaking, is opening what will be known as
the Standard Speech-training and Dramatic
School. Ever since she visited London she
has had the project in view, and all is now
in train to make a start in October. Miss
Thelma St. John George, who is the only
Victorian who has' completed the three
years’ course in the Dalcroze School in
London, has been engaged to teach eurhyth-
mies in this advanced school. While abroad
Miss George, who has forsaken the education
of kindergarteners for eurhythmies, attended
a .conference of educationists in Geneva,
drawn there from over Europe to learn all
they could about the subject. Many remained
to attend a holiday course of lectures after-
wards.
Another Victorian girl is to change her
country with her name and sample house-
keeping in India. This is Aileen Ruby, the
elder daughter of the W. H. Taylors, of
Overnewton, Sydenham, who wedded Cap-
tain .Tames Stewart, of the Royal Artillery,
Madras. As a compliment to the bridegroom
the colors of his regiment tied up the blos-
soms marking the guests’ pews in St. John’s
Kirk, Essendon. The bride’s princess-
fashioned white satin gown had a train of
rare old Limerick lace, and she wore a veil
of iCarrickmacross lace which had also
reached the century in age. Madge Taylor
and. Aline Dowling dressed their r6le of
’maids in pink-tinged blonde satin frocks
which featured double flat flounces and trail-
ing side drapery. Straw hats and posies of
winter roses were accessories. The Irvine
lady, General Chauvel and his lady, the
Robert Knoxs and the Alister Clarks were
guests at the wedding feast, held at the
family home. Mrs. Taylor hostessed in pale
grey and silver fox fur, topped by a blue hat.
Wearing an early spring ensemble, navy
blue coat over flowered crepe-de-Chine frock,
topped by a Baku straw hat, May Bulli-
vant boiled the four-o’clock kettle at the
Alexandra Club one afternoon last week for
about 150 of her women friends. Her sister,
Mrs. S. A. Pidgeon, from Geelong, was at
the party in black satin, with a velour hat
of the same color, and Mrs. Arthur Bullivant,
smartly attired in cocoa-brown check cloth
and blending millinery, was also a guest.
The cars of many of Melbourne’s handled and
naicest were parked about Collins and Rus-
sell streets during the afternoon, and their
owners counted points above and below the
line of bridge-scorers in rooms which were
bowers of peach blossom, heath and wattle,
while a string orchestra made a melodious
murmur.
Committees organising charitable enter-
tainments are always combing their brains
for attractive novelties to stimulate a tepid
public’s enthusiasm. Here is a notion from
Paris. A hostess sending out cardboard
for a hop stipulated that accepting guests
should not appear in silk, cotton or
woollen garments. It took a bit of hard
thinking to devise, attire that complied with
the conditions, but some very effective rig-
outs were forthcoming. An ostrich and a
bird-of-paradise divided admiration, the
former being partnered by a blackbird,
and the latter by a rubber ball. A
cork was accompanied by a powder-puff, and
a gorilla trotted gravely with a small black
monkey. Celluloid was pressed into service
for the camouflage of a beetle or a cock-
roach.
The Repertory Society awakened sufficient
interest in verse to ensure good houses for
a series of three afternoon recitals just con-
cluded. The programmes were made up of
poems and short plays read by the director,
Frank Clewlow, the readings lasting about
an hour. At the final recital John Drink-
water’s “King Cophetua” and Rostand’s
comedy “The Fantastics” ' were features.
The Rostand play was performed by the
Uni. Dramatic Club some time ago, and may
be included in the repertoire of the Repertory
Society next year.
Last week the overhead wire entangle-
ments necessary to the locomotion of elec-
tric-trams began to span Collins-street, sus-
pended from incbriated-looking poles aglow
with aluminium paint. Looking upon the tree-
shorn Treasury Gardens, where every valley
is being exalted and every hill made low,
and thence gazing on the once-beautiful
Collins-street, one sighs for the more pic-
turesque days of yore. At the back of Parlia-
ment House, beside the palm-dotted lawns
around the Printing Office, long, green motor-
’buses introduce a pleasant splash of color,
and a fruit-stall stocked with oranges and
lemons fits charmingly into the picture.
■Knowing that the head of a large family
in her neighborhood had been out of work
for months, a generous dame ordered her
butcher to send along an outsize in legs of
mutton. Meeting one of the children later,
the donor inquired if they had had a good
meal. “Oh, mum didn’t cook that meat
was the reply; “she sold it, and we all went
to the pitchers!”
Melbourne is to have another large private
hospital. The Sisters of Mercy, who con-
duct St. Benedict’s at Malvern, intend build-
ing a branch of their fine institution in East
Melbourne, in the vicinity of Fitzroy Gar-
dens. It will cost about £75,900, and there
will be 75' beds. A maternity ward is
included in the project, which is likely to be
started in’ the new year.


fl 9
-V;
UALITY
FIN
No. 306 —£25
// cagM'vilD
No. 301—£31/10/
No. 302—£25
No. 308—£55
No. 300 —£20
No. 309-£3O
tllOliP®
No. 307—£65
w W
No. 304—£25 N °' 305—£40
No. 303—£45
The Diamond. Rings illustrated above
represent the finest value offered in
Australia. All the. diamonds are set in
pure platinum by Drummond’s ring,
experts. Money will be refunded if
not approved of. Illustrated Ring Cata-
logue sent post free to any address.
WM. DRUMMOND G CO.
DIAMOND AND-PEARL SPECIALISTS-
-344-346 COLLINS STREET
, MELBOURNE
Wallaby Petrol Engines
IN STATIONARY AND PORTABLE TYPES.
EASY TO OPERATE. ECONOMICAL IN USE.
EXTENSIVELY USED IN ALL THE STATES.
A most reliable Power for driving Farming Machinery and for Factory or Workshop
use. Fuel Consumption (automatically regulated) * to | Pint' per B.H.P. P«r hmi .
Design gives great Rigidness, Compactness and Strength. These qualities and simplicity
account much for the success of these popular Engines.
Made in Australia and guaranteed for one year.
Get Full Particulars and Prices.
Billabong Power Pumps
THE BILLABONG CENTRIFUGAL PUMP
is a Powerful Pump constructed to lift large quantities of Water for Irrigation and
other purposes. By independent test thp “Billabong” reaches 75.8 per cent, efficiency,
and is a high-grade pump offered at a very moderate price.
THE BILLABONG DOUBLE-ACTING PISTON PUMP
combines ample power and large capacity in most compact foim.
It is specially adapted to meet the demand for a medium-priced power pump to be
operated by kerosene or petrol engines, or other belt power.
For full particulars of this and other Pumps, Irrigation Machinery and Pump
Accessories, see our General Pump Catalog—Post Free on application.
amuitimmnfi
I JOHN
(uiiiiiiiiiminiiiir
: l- r£ i
P TY±
lima
&SON|
iimiuiiiiiiiniS
391-403 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
324-330 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
&AAAAM
AAl£t£
GRAHAM-PAIGE offers a variety of
body types, including- Roadsters,
Cabriolets, Coupes and Sport Phaetons,
on five chassis, in sixes and eights
at a wide range of prices.
Honest Performance
The new Graham-Paige Model 615 merits the
consideration of every motor-car buyer who is
interested in automotive merchandise of
exceptional value. The Model 615 is note-
worthy for its extra size, extra sturdiness and
extra quality, all contributing to its honest,
reliable performance.
MODEL 615 FIVE-PASSENGER SEDAN.
cunnS
a^mS
«*->
NEW SOUTH WALES .
VICTORIA
SOUTH AUSTRALIA .
Distributors for Australia and New Zealand:
W. H. LOBER & CO., LTD.
WALTER WHITBOURN PTY., LTD.
. . MAUGHAN THIEM MOTOR CO., LTD.
NEW ZEALAND .
WEST AUSTRALIA .. .
QUEENSLAND
TASMANIA
WRIGHT, STEPHENSON & CO., LTD.
.. . . ARTHUR BALES,
. . . . MOXON MOTC
TWIN-TOP MOTORS P‘
GAAMAM-PAIGE


The Commonwealth Life (Amalgamated) Assurances
Limited.
Head Office: “THE BLOCK,” 424-430 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £500,000
PAID-UP CAPITAL - - - £150,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS £140,000
The Directors of the ataovenamed Company beg to announce that they have
retained
MR. A. T. TRAVERSI, F.I.A. (Lend.), F.C.A.S. (New York),
formerly N.Z. Government Actuary and Government Insurance Commissioner, a*
Consulting Actuary.
This step was rendered necessary by the growing importance of existing business
and the probability of further absorptions arising from the imminence of federal
Legislation to control Life Insurance Companies.
The Commonwealth Amalgamated’s present staff and new oflices are suitable and
ready for any desirable extension of business. The name of . the company is emmen y
suitable for the grouping of several of the younger companies who may find separate
existence increasingly expensive and difficult in the near future, and a formula has been
prepared which may afford them easy and creditable, entry into joint, economical and
safe existence. The opportunity now exists for the Responsible Officer of any compa ly
to open negotiations.
.TAMES S. INCH, General Manager.
Amusements.
SYDNEY’S CHIEF THEATRES.
J. C. WILLIAMSON, LTD.
M’g Directors: Sir Geo. Tallis, E. J. Tait. Frank Tart.
HER MAJESTY’S: THE FIVE-
O’CLOCK GIRL.
ROYAL: THE SQUEAKER.
CRITERION: LOMBARDI, LTD.
(Commencing Saturday.)
PALACE: THE KENTUCKY SINGERS.
(Commencing Saturday.)
DICKARDS' TIVOLI THEATRES.
Lessees: Harry Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
TWICE EVERY DAY— 2.3O and 8.
CELEBRITY VAUDEVILLE.
The World’s Best.
I c. WILLIAMSON, LTD.,
MELBOURNE ATTRACTIONS.
HIS MAJESTY’S:
SHOW BOAT.
ROYAL:
JOURNEY’S END.
|£ ING ’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, AUGUST 31,
WHOOPEE.
UOYT’S DE LUXE THEATRE,
** MELBOURNE.
100 PER CENT. ALL TALKIE,
THRO’ DIFFERENT EYES.
ALSO
SAL OF SINGAPORE.
Part Talkie and Sound Picture.
,-j HAIR
4 * EED
HERE'S
Wj -
sdf
Grey Ilair is always taken to be a sign
of age or worry, and in a woman, especi-
ally if she be in early years, amounts to
a tragedy. A woman should never let
herself go. The signs of youth should
always be protected. The well-known
preparation, Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut
Stain, removes all trace of grey. It is
easy and safe to apply and can be done
in the privacy of the home.
Tints to any required shade.
Remember next time, ask your chemist
or storekeeper for—
SfccUhrCs CMEXICAN')
UkdnuJtStaun,
4_ •pur roev'*
’■REMOVES THE GREY
Sole Australian Agents:
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, LTD.
Bond Street, Melbourne.
Ij unobtainable locally, posted
direct (4/6 ), 6d. being postage.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Quzw Aftnc Shop*
Her
Honoured Quests
JHE thin cups and
dainty saucers of
Shelley China are a mark of
quality: it is in compliment
to her guests that a lady gives
them Tea in ware that a
Queen might be proud of.
English bone China and
the craftsmanship tradition-
al at Shelley’s are th<* secret
of this perfection.
Ask to see THE latest
SHELLEY
ii
Tea Sets -
Coffee Sets-
Morning Sets
Dainty White
• China
Nursery Ware
/y Lucie Attweu
gHilda Cowham
Domestic Ware
Jelly Moulds
232.CLA.dEN
Can You Write Music?
It pays—Why not learn to earn?
Dod’s Simplified Practical Harmony will
teach you easily and quickly.
Write G. STSWANTON,
Box 903, G.P.0., Melbourne.
Missing Friends.
CHARLES HENRY GOAD.
"THE above-named, formerly of Nelson, or
A any person knowing his present address,
s requested to communicate with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Greymouth.
MISSING BENEFICIARY.
LJARRY MATTHEWS, son of Chris-
** topher Matthews and formerly of FeiM-
ing, baker, or any person knowing of h l '
whereabouts, is requested, to communicate
with the
DISTRICT MANAGER,
Public Trust Office,
Feilding, New Zealand.
Clifton Gardens Hotel
(Controlled by Sydney Ferries, Ltd.)
SYDNEY’S WELL-KNOWN HARBOR HOTEL
An Ideal Winter Home—The Most Sheltered Spot on the Harbor, with Private Beach and
Amphitheatre Baths. Incomparable for comfort —Excellent Cuisine and Service. Spacious Grounds
and Garage Accommodation.
Winter Tariff from 4\ guineas.
LUNCHEONS, AFTERNOON TEAS, DINNERS.
Delightful 25 minutes' trip from City by Ferry or Motor. ■
Reservations: Y 3012 (4 lines).
The Little Sisters
QUEENSLAND.
Brisbane.
The United Service had their dance on
the same night, and the vice-regals looked
in there for a while, to be received by Lieut,
and Mrs. T. R. Beamish.
The grand liuale in balls was that of the
Bachelors in the same setting. Lady Stone-
haven wore floral ninon in black, with a
design of poppies, a diamond spray and
emerald and diamond necklace.
Bushmen and townsmen gathered round
the Bulletin Court at the Show. “I’ve been
reading you for 40 years,” remarked one
bearded individual, and the exhibition of
original cartoons was always -under inspec-
tion.
The Mudgee College Old Boys gave their
annual hop in the Cafe Romantique. Judge
Macrossan and Mrs. Macrossan received
Lord and Lady Stonehaven and Sir John
and Lady Goodwin. The feminine vice-
regals were in bud-green mariette and black
Chantilly lace respectively.
The Moreton Club followed with, their ball
in South Brisbane City Hall, decked out
in morning glories. Among the debs, pre-
sented were Miss McCullough, Peggy War-
ren. Margaret Mitchell, Olivera Gardner,
Leslie Chambers, Mary Paterson, Marjorie
Steel, Mary Lethbridge and Patricia Shaw.
Lady Stonehaven wore Riviera-blue mari-
ette. Lady Goodwin was in black lace.
On the first day of the Exhibition
luncheon was served in the Ernest Baynes
stand. Lady Stonehaven wore blue and
beige brocade and ballibuntal straw hat;
Lady Goodwin was in hyacinth blue and
Paris net. Ernest Baynes’s daughter, Vera
Corrie,, acted as hostess in beige silk maro-
cain and Paris lace, with a wide-brimmed
hat in pompadour mixture. Mrs. Blair wore
navy and pink; Mrs. A. E. Moore, black
georgette; Mrs. Jolly, rose silk and grey;
Mrs. M. L. Reading, navy chiffon satin.
In the evening there was a dinner party
at Government House, where the guests
included the Governor-General and Lady
Stonehaven, Chief Justice and Mrs. Blair,
Mayor and Mrs. Jolly, Commander and Mrs.
J. C. McFarlane, Mi*, and Mrs. A. E. Cold-
ham and Audrey Coldham, Mr. and Mrs.
Pease, General Foott and daughter Sydney,
Miss A. Gillett, Captain Blakiston-Houston,
Lieut. David Nicholl, Colonel Worthington
Wilmer, Ernest Baynes and Frank Ryder.
It is estimated that 92,000 attended
the Exhibition on People’s Day, after Lord
Stonehaven had unveiled the statue of Bobbie
Burns in Centenary Park. The pipers
played, and the early morning clouds rolled
away and gave us yet another day of bril-
liant sunshine. The side-shows were speci-
ally good, and the wood-chopping and sheep-
dog trials were great draws. The forestry
exhibit was much admired; many of the
exquisite woods came from Fraser Island.
James Bain has been on sick leave
for some months, so he was unable to fill
his usual position at the Show, of which he
has been secretary for upwards of 20 years.
Much of the success of the organisation is
due to Bain’s splendid work and organising
ability. Another notable absentee was 11. W.
Mobsby, F.R.S.A., for over 30 years artist
and photographer in the Department of Agri-
culture and Stock. Nobody in Queensland
has had more to do with exhibitions.
People and money flowed into Bris-
bane during the seven days of the Show,
and there were many public and private
shivoos. The Girl Guides opened the week
with a ball in South Brisbane City Hall.
Their Exes., Federal and State, were there.
Lady Stonehaven wore gold lace with garnet
headings; Lady Goodwin was in black mari-
ette and silver. Dorothy Hawthorn (she
is head of the Girl Guides now) wore blue
mariette and a diamente buckle. General
Chauvel’s lady was in ivory mariette beaded
in silver, Mrs. E. T. Bell in gold lace, Mrs.
p, J. Kerwin in black mariette and blue.
Two debs, were presented, Minnie Palmer
and Kitty Stark.
WESTRALIA.
Perth.
The children’s party started the ball roll-
ing for the Kindergarten Appeal Week, and
hundreds of wee tots, dressed in all manner
of costumes, revelled in the numerous side-
shows. A pageant was enacted by the young
things, with an opossum, < a kangaroo and
realistic aborigines gavotting in the forest.
The Sir Roger de Coverley was danced by
dainty little lasses and chubby scarlet-clad
soldiers. The supper-room was decked with
boughs of cotton-palms, and a miniature Par-
melia sailed by each child’s plate.
The Franklin, couple gave their first recep-
tion since their step in civic rank in a
Town Hall decked with palms, ferns and
begonia. Mrs. Franklin was in smart
black charmeuse. richly embroidered in pastel
shades. She was assisted by her daughters,
Mrs E, B. Sinclair, Mrs. Randall Smith,
Miss Franklin and Miss K. Franklin. Con-
tributors to the musical programme included
Madame Synnot, Miss G. Edwards, Miss G.
Nash, Miss Molly Q’Dea and Mr. Dean.
Government - House ballroom was trans-
formed into one of Pharaoh’s temples for
A huge Sphinx occupied the
inscrutably on the dancers
md of scarabs, Nile lotus and
)ols. Even Ron Moyle’s
larked in an Eastern enclo-
was there, with Major and
i;; so were the Lud Mayor and
i Freedman represented the
s’ Scholarship Trust Fund,
from the function. The
i the Capitol, Ambassadors
atres gave well-applauded
Franklin wore deep blue
oiled corsage; Miss Elsie
Pittard wrapped a fur-collared cloak over
her rose satins; and Mrs. L. O’Hara danced
in rainbow tulle over pink taffetas.
Miss Gladys Hadley decked herself in
daffodil-yellow crepe de Chine, with semi-
fitting bodice, scarf collar and daffodil felt
hat, to greet a large gathering at bridge.
Tables were set in the Karrakatta Club
ballroom, and tea was served in the winter
garden, aglow with Iceland poppies and
Gerald ton wax-plants. Her sisters Phyllis
and Jean assisted with the hostessing, the
last-named in a graceful navy-blue satin
ensemble.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Adelaide.
Basketball girls from Sydney, Melbourne
and Tasmania were entertained at tea by
Mrs. Harvey Johnson, wife of the Uni. pro-
fessor and president of the U.W.8.8. club.
Miss Constance Ure, the captain of the Adel-
aide team, helped the hostess to receive.
ILM.A.S. Canberra will be at Port
Adelaide in October, and there will be a
Mayoral garden party in honor of her visit.
The Lyceum Club entertained Dusolina
Giannini and her concert party at morning
tea last Wednesday. In the absence oi:
president Mrs. Charles Todd, Miss Mabel
Marryat did the honors.
A London wedding of great interest to Adel-
aide was that of Clive Carey, late a teacher of
singing at the
Elder Conser-
vator! um, to
Doris John-
son, daughter
of Mrs. Samuel
Johnson, o f
Brighton her
photo appears
herewith. Mr.
Carey gave up
his position at
the Conserva-
torium and re-
turned to Eng-
land last year.
Miss' Johnson,
well known as
the secretary
of the English-
Speaking
Union, left
about two
months ago on
a trip to the
U.K., and friends have been busy
cabling good wishes. The knot was tied
at St. Mark’s, North Kensington, and the
honeymoon is being spent at the English
lakes and in Scotland.
Jimmy Western, veteran Adelaide jour-
nalist,- made a finish of which any news-
paper man might be proud. At 6 p.m., with
copy in his pocket, he was knocked down
in a suburb by a lorry. At 8 he recovered
consciousness, in hosnital, and a bit later
caused a sensation by walking in with his
copy to the Register office, which had just
heard of his serious accident. Then he went
home, but next morning he was dead. Among
its indexed biographies his paper found
notes of his career, in his own writing, with
the endorsement of a born journalist, “Might
save trouble ' some night.” They showed
birth in .1865, service in Adelaide Advertiser
at 16, with interludes later on the old Silver
Age at Broken Hill, the Daily News and
West Australian in Perth.
TASMANIA.
Hobart.
The Radcliffe girls, Cicely and Dorothy,
who ai’e on a trip to the other side of the
world, have been staying with Lord and
Liady Abinger in Scotland. Lady Abinger
was Miss Meg McPhillamy, of Bathurst,
The women’s inter-’Varsity hockey teams
were received by Deputy-Mayor Mcllugo
at the Town Hall, and an athletic-looking lot
of lasses they are. They were entertained in
various ways between matches, and said all
the usual nice things about our beautiful
surroundings and the pleasant means pro-
vided for seeing them.
The University term dance, organised to
raise the wherewithal for the entertainment
of two lots of guests, the hockey players
from four mainland States and the ’Varsity
debaters from five, was a most successful
function. The library was cleared for the
dancers, and supper was served downstairs
on tables where real spring flowers made
their appearance at last.
At the “Ungrown-ups” Ball (a most mis-
leading title), organised by the Child Wel-
fare folk, the C.J.’s lady, as president,
took the lead in the home-made supper
arrangements, which are always a speciai
feature of these shows. Dancers filled the
two ballrooms of the Continental. Charity
Wynne and Seeley Samson pirouetted effec-
tively in some new fancy dances, and there
was a brisk sale of flowers, sweets and
balloons.
At a party given by members of the Coo-ee
Club in their rooms at the Boomerang, every
guest had to appear in fancy dress of the
sort worn at least a generation ago. Grand-
ma’s boxes had been ransacked for many
of the costumes; others dated back much
further than grandma. After a parade of
competitors first prize was awarded to Miss
Walter, second to Miss Fletcher and a
special to Miss P. Walter. Jean Swan and
Margaret Luevek danced a minuet, and
scenes were acted from “Cranford,” in the
dress of the period.
\T the back of the north wind.
Darwin.
Died recently, Mrs. Worgan, who like her
husband had been closely connected with all
social activities in Darwin for many years.
She was secretary of the Victoria League;
he is Government Surveyor, goldfields
Warden and chairman of dozens of sports
committees. . . . ~
Dr Fothergill, recently appointed medico
for the Katherine district, has arrived,
having travelled overland from Queensland.
The doctor gained his medical degree at the
Sydney University.
Darwin has been treated to a divorce-case,
the second in 16 years. The parties ! were
half-castes, and Judge Mallam decided that
both had been unfaithful, but that more
oood would be done by dissolving the tie
than by allowing it to continue. Darwin
can pride itself on a Judge who is not fet-
tered by worn-out traditions.


ROOM 300
PLEASE”
0$ M
The comfort and success of your
visit to Adelaide, whether for a
week or a year, is assured when
you stay here. Yale locks on all
doors, fireproof, hot and cold
water in every room. Bed and
Breakfast, from 6/6.
''GROSVENOR
(Adelaides Finest Unlicensed UioteL
Opp. Railway Sfn North Terrace. ADELAIDE-
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863. Established 1872.
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.:
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —M. G. HAYMEN.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
With offices at London, Canberra (Federal Territory), Melbourne, Sydney, andl 9<
branches in Queensland and Northern Rivers, N. S. Wales, also
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the . Wo F;“’.
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
5C
iS
V
V
The Centre of Tasmania’s
Progress and Prosperity.
“THE EXAMINER” is the only daily newspaper pub-
lished in Launceston, the Railway, Shipping, Agricul-
tural, Commercial and Tourist centre of Tasmania.
“THE EXAMINER” has been published in Launceston
for 87 years, and is still the family newspaper of
Northern Tasmania.
Full information, copies, advertising rates of “The Examiner,” “Weekly Courier” and
“Saturday Evening Express” obtainable from ;
W. R. Rolph & Sons Pty., Ltd., Mr. V. W. Margetts, Mr. W. G. Dougan,
73-75 Patterson Street, 122 Flinders Street, 726 Herald Building,
Launceston. Melbourne. 66 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Qeadu inamoment
always have
sd
in the home
itissohandtf
In 4 sizes
of ell Chemists & Stores
“I, too, am hungry, my father,” she
replies fiercely. “Hungry for the white
man, for the sound of his voice. And my
skin creeps with a great yearning for my
son and his.”
Her father makes a scornful grimace.
“You are a fool, woman,” he says. “ t hese
things are as the mists of the morning;
they come, they go, and there is a new
day. Up, woman, and to work!”
The girl drags her eyes from the red
roof and rises unwillingly.
“Am I not also a woman?” she moans.
"What can this white-faced sinabada, whose
eyes are as blue beads and whose hair is as
grass smitten by the sun, give him that I
also cannot give?” A note of passion throbs
into her voice. “Sons? Can I not give
him sons? Love? Can I not”
“Peace, woman!”
“He belongs to me—to me, Loana! To-
day I will go to the Gavamani. Mis’ Bileki
who is my father and my mother”
“Will give orders that you be beaten
with sticks,” rasps her father. “Hasten,
woman! Food!”
Loana’s black eyes blazed; then, with
bowed head, she follows her father to the
village.
The sun is high. The face of nature
takes on a joyous aspect. Chirping birds
whose brilliant plumage glistens in the sun-
light flit round the huts. Butterflies, radiant
with color, soar gracefully. Gorgeous
dragon-flies poise in patches of sunlight.
Half a dozen old women are tattooing
the body of a young girl. They use a
pigment compounded of soot scraped from
the cooking-pots and heated cocoanut oil.
The girl is weeping. She writhes and
struggles in the grasp of her tormentors,
but they carry on unmoved, deaf to the
victim’s outcries, tracing an intricate pat-
tern over her shrinking body, and punctur-
ing the skin dexterously with a thorn.
The foreheads of these wrinkled beldames
are deeply indented. They are the beasts
of burden of their lords. Since the days
of their girlhood they have carried food
from the gardens and firewood from the
forest, and the indentations are the scars
left by the narrow strip of plaited fibre by
which the packs are suspended.
An old man sits on
the platform of his hut
patiently chipping and
shaping a piece of shell.
He is fashioning a nose-
bone from the hinge of
a giant clam. A young
buck is clipping the
hairs from his chin
with a pair of tiny,
sharp shells. He grim-
aces horribly; the
operation is painful.
Another man is twist-
ing a skein of pandanus
fibre wherewith to
mend his fishing net
for the night’s work on
the reef, and under the
influence of betel-nut
the elders of the tribe
are arguing vociferously
in the long-house.
The married women
dull-eyed creatures
whose heads are
shaven, and who have
chains tattooed round their necks —are filing
out of the village to their labor in the
gardens; a party of young men carrying
heavy black-palm spears and a stout corded
net go forth to hunt the wild pig; the
children bask lazily on the shingle in the
tropic sunshine.
The scene holds the eye; it fascinates.
It is a picture of human life as it was lived
in the Stone Age; as it is lived in primitive
Papua to-day.
Lesley awakened that first morning at
Laubogi to a sense of unalloyed delight.
Through a tracery of palm-fronds she could
glimpse the sea glittering in the sunshine,
and the surf was as muted music in her
ears.
She lay back on her pillow thrilled
through all her senses. It seemed as if all
her life had been but a preparation for
this—this new world of incredible dreams
come true, and the happiness that was hers.
Her thoughts travelled backwards, and
delightful memories flooded her brain. They
swept forward to an eternity of sweet,
serene days, she and Hal together—always
together—in this fascinating, beautiful out-
of-the-way corner of the world.
She heard her husband’s voice, crisp,
authoritative, giving instructions to the
house-boys. She heard the splashing of
water in the bathroom. She must learn
Motuan. It was an attractive language; a
language of soft inflections. It would be
thrilling to talk to these untamed people
in their own tongue, to follow their ways
of thinking, to understand their habits,
their superstitions, their legends.
The fascination of the unknown caught
her. Again it came to her, unaccountably,
mysteriously, that feeling of kinship with
the men and women of her own race who
had made this spirit-haunted, legend-
haunted, wonderful land their home. She
had no sense of exile; rather a sense of
adventure, of exaltation, of high achieve-
ment. New Guinea needed the white
woman as well as the white man. The days
when men went forth to blaze the trail and
conquer the wilderness, leaving their women
behind to weep and wait, had gone for
“ ‘Get out of this, you scum!’ he snarled.”
ever. They had never existed save in the
unreal worlds of romantic novelists, else
there had been no Sydney, no Auckland,
no Capetown, no Winnipeg; no sturdy citi-
zens of half a hundred commonwealths
scattered far and wide over the seven seas
to “call old England ‘home.’ ” She would
give this new land—this enravishing, un-
tamed, wholly delightful Papua—of her
best.
In the play of her romantic fancy she saw
New Guinea, not as a country in which
to tarry for a while among an alien, hostile
people, but as another cradle of an imperial
race. And who shall say that she was
wrong?
A rap upon the door, followed by a
discreet cough, disturbed her big thoughts.
“Tea, Sinabada! Taubada talk puttem
’long valandah.”
Lesley reached for her slippers, slipped
on a wrap and entered upon her first day
as mistress of Laubogi. There were deep
lounge chairs on the front verandah and
hot tea and toast prepared by Gaduweli
the cookboy. Hal was there waiting for
her, looking efficient, workmanlike in khaki
shorts, puttees and bluchers; his shirt, open
at the neck, displaying a bronzed throat, and
the sleeves, cut off at the elbows, showing a
pair of muscular forearms.
He held out his arms to her and she
swayed into them. His lips touched hers,
and he held her in close embrace. Lesley
laid her cheek against his. His arms
tightened about her.
“Happy, Kitten?” His voice was low-
reverent almost,
Lesley laughed softly, running her fingers
through his hair.
“So happy, dear,” she whispered. “So
happy that it is almost a pain.”
Her eyes shone into his, and she saw his
dark eyes light with an expression there
was no mistaking.
Harry Merton loved
his wife—after his fashion.
Patrol-officer Thomas
Shepstone Mainwaring
Jenkins ruffled his hair,
muttered imprecations
under his breath and
exhibited other symptoms
of annoyance.
“Mv hat!” he ejacu-
lated.' “What a dial!”
He was staring dis-
mally at a swollen,
blotched face reflected
in a cracked shaving
mirror propped upon the
verandah rail, and from
time to time he made
experimental dabs at in-
numer able mosquito
bites with a swab of cotton wool soaked in
a sticky solution.
“Try face cream, sonny!” jeered Glover.
He was at the other end of the verandah
making preliminary passes at a swinging
punching ball. “Don’t you know, laddie,
he continued cheerfully, “that the coast
of New Guinea is dotted with the graves
of silly asses who forgot to tuck in their
mosquito nets overnight?”
Jenkins gave a little start, and his jaw
sagged.
“Fact, old chap,” Glover went on serenely.
“That muck you’re smearing on yourself
won’t do the slightest good. What you
require, my lad, is quinine. Oodles of it.”
He smote the punching ball, then turned
and regarded Jenkins speculatively. “Un-
less, of course, you really want a dose of
fever that’ll twist the gizzard out of you.
Am I right, R.M.?”
Blake, an unlighted pipe between his
teeth, was gazing at the summits of the
coastal range now showing through a filmy
veil of mist like giant dogs’-teeth. He did
not see them; nor did he hear the trade
wind stirring in the palms, nor Jenkins’s
frightened gasp, nor Glover’s question.
“The Old Man is in a trance,” Glover
announced, returning to his matutinal exer-
cises. “He is thinking of the bright lights
and the hard-earned coin he has recklessly
squandered. He will probably remain like
that for days. They all do.”
Glover pounded the punching ball indus-
triously; then, face glowing and nerves
tingling, he made a dive for the bathroom.
When he returned, Maridoga had brought
the morning coffee. Blake was pulling on his
pipe,, but his mantle of gloom seemed to
have descended upon Patrol-officer Jenkins.
Jenkins’s boyish face was twisted into a
sickly grin, but there was dismay in his
eyes.
Glover looked closely at the youngster
and his cheerful smile departed. “I say,
Jenkins!” he exclaimed, suddenly contrite.
“Surely you are not taking my fool jokes
seriously!”
“What is the trouble?” Blake asked. “Has
the A.R.M. been extending your leg, Jen-
kins?” He regarded the patrol-officer’s
swollen face curiously. “I should say,
Tommy, at a guess, that you’d had a devil
of a night.”
Jenkins nodded miserably. “I slept with-
out a net, R.M.,” he explained.
“That,” chided Blake, • “is a fool of a
game. Don’t let the country put the wind
up you, Jenkins, but at the same time don’t
take dam’ fool liberties.” He turned to
Glover. “Put the lad on a quinine ration,
Jimmy. Fill him up until his head goes
round and his ears buzz.”
“He seems a decent kid,” Glover remarked
after Jenkins had gone. “Keen and all
that.” His voice dropped. “I meant to
ask you before, R.M., is he wise to this
Laubogi affair?”
Blake nodded. “He tumbled to Merton
in a jiffy. You may talk quite freely be-
fore Jenkins,” he answered.
He knocked out his pipe.
“Have you seen anything of Loana,
Jimmy, since Merton—er—tossed her out?”
Glover shook his
head emphatically.
“Not I, R.M.! That
is a little legacy I
have left for you to
clean up.”
Blake pondered this,
sipping his coffee
thou ghtfully.
give Loana a
weeks to get—<
used to things,
then I’ll see her,”
decided at last,
these er defen
measures yo
taken gagging
villagers and put
a ’tabu’ on Lau
—are quite ilk
You understand that, of course?
“Naturally.”
“We’re playing a low-down game
bluff, Jimmy—nothing more than tha.
If it works for, say, six months or so,
Loana will be powerless. Mrs. Merton s
position at Laubogi will be impreg-
nable.” , 0 „
“And it will last—how long, R.M.f
“It is a wonderful, beautiful, vital thing,
this faith of hers, Jimmy. It is the faith
of a little child. She believes m Merton,
Jimmy—believes in him utterly. She ideal-
ises him; he is the rock, the foundation
upon which all her hopes, her dreams are
built.” His voice changed. “If your tabu
holds for even six months, Jimmy, not even
Loana will be able to break into Mrs.
Merton’s citadel. Mrs. Merton is like that.
He began to charge his pipe again. We
must get Loana away from Akupaka, village,
Jimmy. Get her married off, eh?”
Glover stirred uneasily. He coughed once
or twice, looking oddly at Blake. When he
spoke, he seemed to have difficulty in find-
ing words.
“Forget Loana, Steve. She’ll give no
trouble. Merton’s wife opened her heart
to me yesterday. Simple she is, and
(Continued on next page.)


Is '•
Baby JOYCE BASS-
FORD—is a real Rex-
ona baby. Her mother
writes : “I have used
Uexona Soap for her
from birth.”
Bath Baby with Rexona Soap
A healthy baby always enjoys a bath, and Rexona Soap
makes your child a healthy baby.
It keeps his skin fresh and sweet, his scalp clean and
wholesome. Any irritation of the skin which keeps baby
awake, or makes him cross and peevish, Rexona Soap
will quickly soothe.
A refreshing bath with Rexona Soap, and gently anoint-
ing with Rexona will cool his skin, and take away all
discomforts, so that sleep comes naturally.
Rexona Soap with its pure, sweet emollients is suited to
baby’s delicate skin, and keeps it in the best condition.
Rexona Babies are contented babies, because they feel
well cared for and comfortable.
Price 1/- per tablet .
-c-o'' s*- 5 *-
1
1
REXONA.
1 §
for Health and Beauty
asisa
■
A PERFECT
STOCK SADDLE,
THE “WINTON”
DESIGNED TO INCREASE THE
PLEASURE AND COMFORT OF
RIDING.
Note how the flap is sewn direct to the seat
without the usual skirt, thus giving a nar-
rower, non-chafing grip. The pads are set
well up, giving perfect security for rough
riding. The saddle is high-grade throughout
in materials and workmanship, and is fitted
with folded leather girth leathers and solid
nickel four-bar stirrups.
WHITE FOR
CATALOGUE
£l6/10/-
FREIGHT PAID FOR CASH
WITH ORDER TO ANY N.S.W.
RAILWAY STATION.
“K’BURRA” GUARANTEED STOCK WHIPS
12-plait Thongs: 6ft., 3.8/6 7ft., 21/- Bft., 23/6
16-plait Thongs: 6ft., 21/6 7ft., 24/6 Bft., 27/6
HANDLES: 16-plait, 17/-; 24-plait, 19/-. Post Free.
WHIPS £<3
WAL.THER & STEVENSON, LTD., Saddlers,
395 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. BOX 785 G.
unsophisticated; very young and very inno-
cent; but she’s no fool, Steve. That girl
will be looking things squarely in the lace
long before then, old chap.”
Glovei; stood up and took a turn up and
down the verandah.
“I’m with you, Steve, all the way,” he
said. “You know that. To me Merton s
missus is like-like a breath of home m the
wilderness. My sisters are like her, Steve.
I’d like to think that she’ll win through
and be ; happy ever after.’ But keep youi
eye on”— — .
“Loana,” Blake put m firmly.
“On Merton, Steve.”
CHAPTER XI.
Straws in the Wind.
The first few weeks of her marriage
seemed to flit by in a mist of happiness.
The Laubogi bungalow was a barn; she
transformed it into a home. The garden
was a wilderness; she laid it out m ordered
plots.
At break of day when every blade of
grass, every shrub was jewelled, and of
an evening" when the western sky was a
blazing furnace, Lesley tended her garden,
pruned her shrubs, planted her seeds.
Amazingly the rich chocolate loam forced
up tiny shoots into the sunshine, delicate
little blades of emerald-green that presently
blossomed into flowers of incredible love-
liness.
Morning and evening she nursed her trea-
sures, while flycatchers scolded her from
the trees, marauding cockatoos swopped
upon her granadilla vines, parakeets gor-
geously clad in red and blue delighted her
eye, tiny songsters charmed her ear, and
kookaburras—these dumb, alas!—regarded
her solemnly from the fenceposts. Every
day she offered thanks for the gifts the
gods had showered upon her.
Timidly, blushingly, half ashamed of her
sentimentality, she took her big thoughts
to her husband. Always he encouraged
her with a warm and cordial interest. She
was not to know that his pleasure was
assumed; that to him her rhapsodies were
entirely without meaning.
One morning when Gaduweli was blas-
phemously instructing a raw bush laborer
in the art of tying up bananas in their
own leaves to protect them from the ravages
of flying-foxes, he discerned the figure of a
white man shambling along the beach to-
wards the bungalow. With a final command,
uttered in profane though lucid Motuan,
Gaduweli stationed himself at the garden
gate.
“What you want, Sam?” the native de-
manded when the white man had come up.
Sam Turver, blear-eyed, unkempt, ignored
the codkboy’s insolence; his studied omis-
sion of the customary “taubada”; his airy
assumption of an easy familiarity. Turver
was Sober, but he was tottering on the edge
of dementia. His familiar devil was clutch-
ing him by the throat and his tortured
nerves were screaming for relief. He laid
a trembling hand upon the boy’s shoulder.
His finger-nails bit into the brown flesh,
and Gaduweli backed away.
“Where taubada?” Turver gasped in a
thin, quavering voice. .
Gaduweli scowled. “What you want—
you Sam?” he began, hotly. “You go”
“Where taubada?” Turver’s voice rose.
“Where taubada? You—you” and he
poured out at the native a stream of savage
invective, beastly, obscene.
The derelict shrank back with a yelp of
fear as he saw Merton, his face black as a
thunder-cloud, advancing upon him. He
quailed, cringing under the menace of the
planter’s eyes. He looked up in agonised
appeal. He had a blurred vision of a white
girl standing at the head of the verandah
steps, consternation, horror, written visibly
on her face..
“Gimme a? drink, ’Any, for the love of
God!” he stuttered. “I don’t mean no ’arm,
’Any! Dinkum, I don’t! Gimme just
one”
Merton’s- face contorted with anger.
“Get out of .this, you scum!” he snarled.
Turver felt a stinging blow across the
mouth, felt blood on his lips, and with a
cry like a tortured animal he covered his
face with his hands and stumbled blindly
away.
Gaduweli uttered a short, scornful laugh.
Merton stretched forth a hand and
gripped him by his fuzzy mop, shaking
him viciously.
“You laugh, you filthy black swine!” he
rasped, and he struck the cowering native
with his open hand, rocking him sideways.
“You go to the store; get two bottles
‘wisiki’ and take them to Sam’s place. You
hear me? Go quickly!”
“Who is that horrible person?” Lesley
demanded hotly when Merton returned to
the house. “Why did he come here, Hal?”.
Merton’s eyes were smouldering. He was
breathing heavily. The decanter shook in
his hand as he poured out a stiff nip, and
the glass clattered against his teeth when
he drained it at a gulp. Lesley’s eyes
w;i,de»qd.
“I’m a bit nervy, dear,” he explained.
“I’ll have another.” And he helped him-
self.
Lesley sat upright, very quiet, veiy grave.
She felt the presence of a vague, perplex-
ing something in her husband’s demeanor
towards her to which she could give no
name.
He had made no attempt to answer her
questions.
“Why did you strike that wretched crea-
ture, and—and swear at him so horribly?”
she broke out- impulsively at last. “And
poor little Gaduweli? I—l think it was
brutal 1”
“Then you have married a brute,” Merton
snapped.
His face bore a sulky expression. His
voice had a nasty edge to it. He threw
himself into a chair and lighted a cigarette
with exaggerated unconcern.
Lesley stared at him astonished. In her
cheeks was a flame of color. Somehow her
husband’s eyes refused to meet hers.
“Are you trying to be—to be horrid,
Hal?” she answered evenly.
Merton opened his lips to speak, then
shut them tightly. Snatching up his helmet,
he flung himself down the verandah steps,
slamming the garden gate behind him, and
strode away without so much as a backward
glance.
Lesley sat for a moment with head held
high; but her brain was numb, and she felt
a choking in her throat. Then with a
great effort of will she stilled her distress
and went about her household duties. She
hummed a little tune under her breath as
she gave her orders to the houseboys. But
her cheerfulness lay uneasily upon her as
though it stubbornly repudiated a secret,
inner fear. Her brightness could not hide,
even from the houseboys, the fact that she
was in deep distress, and they watched her
covertly from the kitchen, shrugging their
shoulders, saying nothing.
{To be continued next week.)
Winter Night.
Winter outside. Chill wind, darkness and
rain.
And here the firelight gilds your face and
hair.
You have prepared warm food, goblets to
drain
Of golden ale, and from my easy chair
(Slippered my feet) I note each friendly
book
Of mine in lamp-lit shelves; beneath the
spell
Of comfort and peace in this warm window-
nook
I count my old, fierce dreams forsaken
well.
But how shall it be when gipsy Spring steals
back,
With blossoms in her hair and wanton
eyes,
To decoy Youth along Adventure’s track
With old new lies on her life-nectared lips,
And on untroubled seas beneath clear skies
Out to the bright unknown sail magic
ships?
N.S.W.
CHARLES CAMPBELL.
Quiet.
Gathering handfuls of quiet,
Scooping them up from the din,
Handfuls, handfuls of quiet—
Dip, dip in.
Quiet of chrysoprase hollows,
Mosses asleep on the stone,
Bluebells brimming with blueness,
Grey of being alone !
Scarlet circles of quiet,
Eddies pregnant with good,
Purples of still, long shadows
Pointed with quietude.
O visionary sound-conception!
O green fire waking a seed!
Handfuls, handfuls of quiet,
Earth! for spirit need!
And the sky is fathomless quiet. . ..
I will let no plumb-line down,
But when it is time I will dive deep
Into quiet, and drown!
Then shall I be an impulse
Permeating the air,
Distilling dew to the forest,
And potency to prayer.
QUEENSLAND.
LLYWELYN LUCAS.
The Silver Gulls.
All night on lonesome beach and spit,
While star and star move west,
O’er reef and dune and dark lagoon
The seagulls take their rest.
Above them glides the midnight wind,
Hard-by the breakers sound
And surges sweep, yet hushed they sleep
Upon their camping ground.
Though whimpering teal and watchful swan
May tell of direful things
That steal and slay, yet heedless they
Sleep on with folded wings.
Head under wing, a stirless thing,
A pallid throng, they sleep;
While overhead, wave-lorn, wind-sped,
The ghostly sea-mists creep.
Stars fade at last, grow dim and fail,
Along the eastern skies
Gleam greens and greys, and something says :
“Arise ! ’Tis dawn —arise !”
And thus, while folk still lie abed,,
And morning mists are damp,.
And seas are grey at break of day,
The seagulls quit their camp.
Wide-winged against the growing dawn,
A silver-pinioned host,
By cliff and reach, and bar and beach,
They sweep adown the coast.
Life’s thrill is theirs, for well they know,
As to and fro they sWoop.
That night has ceased, and up the cast
The golden dawn-lights troop.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


British
/
Thoroughness
in Leyland
Service
No. 3
Jpjand,
teVLAKB IAHCi
Every LeylandChassis
Doubly ftetestpa
KTOTHING concerning Leyland’s repu-
* tation for British thoroughness is left
to chance.
Every chassis is doubly pre-tested; once
before despatch from the Home factories
and again after assembly here.
Both tests include road trials of every unit
under respective standard Leyland capacity
loads.
This is just one reason why Australian
owners are able to —and do —more than
justify the Leyland claim of super-efficiency.
Write or call for Leyland literature —without
obligation.
CHASSIS NOW AVAILABLE:
“Badger”; “Beaver”
3/4-ton 6-wheel “Terrier”;
also 4-ton and 5-ton models.
Single- and Double-deck ’Buses.
ENGLAND.
Head Office for Australia: Service Station:
Telegrams: “Leymotors,” Sydney.
Melbourne Depot:
Corner Courtney & Villiers Streets,
NORTH MELBOURNE.
Brisbane Depdt:
Grey Street, SOUTH BRISBANE.
X
2^l
Repair parts Cleansing
Unit
Every Leyland part sent to Head-
quarters for repair is scientifically
scoured by steam, water and
kerosene before reaching the
mechanic.
This feature guarantees the owner
more accurate workmanship and
a auickcr job.
/
Do 2 Things
And Add
Thousands of
Miles
To the Life
1
Experienced motorists every -
where are reducing their tyre
expense by following these
simple suggestions:
First, they see that a gen-
uine Schrader Valve Inside,
in good condition, is screw-
ed into every tyre valve.
This wonderful little valve
inside is equally dependable
for holding air in either
balloon or high pressure
tyres.
Second, they screw an
improved Schrader No. 880
Valve Cap tightly by hand
on every tyre valve. This
valve cap keeps dirt from
damaging the valve inside
and is airtight up to 250
lbs.
Sold by Accessory Dealers everywhere
Schrader
Makers of Pneumatic Valves Since 1844
Tyre Valves:: Tyre Gauges
A. SCHRADER’S SON, Inc.
Proprietary Limited
422 Little Collins St.
Melbourne, Australia
Missing Friends.
TONES, JAMES SYDNEY, eldest son of
J late J. C. Jones, Mt. Keira, please com-
municate J. W. RUSSELL, Solicitor, Wol-
longong. Information liis benefit.
;
MISSING NEXT OF KIN.
yHE next of kin of ALFRED WILLIAMS,
son of Thomas Alfred Williams and
Julia Anne Mary Williams, nee Campbell,
who was born at Campbellfield, Victoria,
on 26/11/ISSB, or any person knowing the
whereabouts of such known next of kin, are
requested to communicate with the
DISTRICT PUBLIC TRUSTEE,
Masterton, New Zealand.
RE J. E. FITZPATRICK, Deceased.—
Will any person knowing the where-
abouts of Tasman Adolphus Fitzpatrick, last
heard of at Zeehan, in Tasmania, in 15)03,
i please communicate with the PUBLIC
1 TRUSTEE, Hobart.


/Wiw me.
«c
□
1
<S?
Ylactcx Oil
v, toc^y
Present-day farming condi-
tions have added greatly
to the list of duties of the
modern tractor.
Ranging from heavy, gruel-
ling work to the lighter
operations where speed is
necessary, these changing
conditions have created a
need for a tractor fuel so
perfectly balanced that it not
only gives full power for
heavy work, but also pro-
vides flexible running, easy
starting, and good idling
results, without smoke or
dilution on light loads.
The New CROSS Power
Kerosene has been refined
to retain its previous good
points as well as to meet
these new conditions. A test
will prove the improved
quality to contain all the
essentials for heavy or light
jobs.
CROSS
THE WELL-BALANCED
POWER KEROSENE
A SHELL PRODUCT
THE SHELL COMPANY LIMITED
CROSS SERies
(Vo J.


MAM NEWS
The "IBARB”
RIDING ?TR3USERS
Just hard long}-'Wearing Riding
Trousers for me»n' —strongly built.
Won’t show dirtl d>r perspiration—
Cross pocjkegs, lqops. There’s no
better valoe. faiwit -i /££ pair
and Grey .. ..157/0
fsd
Mail to Desk “5.8.”
Sea lint - »i«
Pike Brothers
uXti'IED
m Queen iSt., Brisbane
23.
POUNDS OF PENNIES
Take of the pennies, and the pounds will take care of
themselves. 7hefe is more in that old saying than perhaps
you realise. Pennies are more easily come by than pounds;
they are more easily saved, for a penn’orth of self-denial is
easier to practise than a pound s worth at a time.
Think it out—better still, try it out —the steady, sincere saving
of the small coins; the practical appreciation of the small
things and their cumulative value.
Turn your pennies into pounds by the aid of a Commonwealth
Savings Account and the 4 per cent, per annum interest it pays.
fcmonmaltb Savings IM of Australia
(Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government).
‘Allenbunys*
Slock Currant PASTILLES
Stage Folk!
To clear the
throat and restore
power and reson-
ance to the voice,
you will find these
Pastilles star
performers ■— de-
lightfully soothing
and refreshing.
Your Chemist stocks
them 1/- and 1/9
per box.
Rufus Escapes.
MARGARET FANE AND HILARY LOFTING
DISCOVER A. MAGIC ROT JO V
I''OR. 77 ltS 1X0 MRS IS TO CATS.
Ii .S customary air of drowsy peace lay
heavy on Swansthorpe, heavy on the dusty
street where even the dust was still, heavy
oil the yellow dog asleep on the doorstep of
the pub. and heaviest of all on the twilit
confusion of Rufus llurland's store. The
hills brooding somnolently over the little
township saw Rob Starrett come striding
out ol his house, with his usual noisy con-
tempt ot his surroundings, and push his
way into the store.
No one was there to greet him or hear his
apparently important needs. Nothing was
there save ihe deep silence and the dust-
covered stock hanging from the rafters and
littered against the walls.
Starrett rapped sharply on the counter,
but the sound only drifted back into the
sleepy silence.
‘‘Rule! he barked. But that, too, joined
the other sound in drowsy indifference.
“Damn the fool!” Starrett muttered.
“ Rufe!”
A large sandy man in the sunny corner
of the store’s back verandah sighed and put
down his book. With surprising ease for
a man so thick and large he was out of
the supine deck-chair and on liis slippered
feet before the end of the sigh. lie yawnei
and stretched, seeming to fill the verandah,
before he shuffled very deliberately into the
house.
“Rufe!”
“All right—:lm coming,” Rufus murmured
in the narrow dark corridor. "What’s all the
fuss’— : — He reached the counter and saw
the customer. "Hullo, Bob,” he said, grin-
ning sleepily, ‘T might have known it was
you.”
"Yes, it's me.” Bob Starrett glared at him.
Safe seemed to think it was a friendly joke
to keep a busy man in a hurry waiting and
yelling for him. "Taking a day off?”
“No,” Rufus said mildly. “I was there.’
“Where?”
“Back there, having a bit of a read and
a rest.”
“A bit of a rest! Why, yon don’t do
anything to rest from. Got that coffee yet?"
“I do a lot, one way and another —coffee?
Coffee?” Rufus narrowed his bewildered eyes,
as if coffee were at. least; one of the Seven
Wonders. “Coffee?” H'e grinned again,
fatuously, at Starrett.
“Look, Rufe,” Starrett admonished him.
■‘one of these days you’ll find yourself busted
and run out of the township. You’re a plain,
lazy fool, that’s what, you arc. Didn’t 1
tell you to get me some special coffee up
from Sydney last week?”
“1 believe you did.” Rufus’s grin was still
there, but rather set and wooden-looking;
“plain, lazy fool” was a bit hot. even from
Bob’s tongue. “1 never gave it a thought,”
he added.
"You give it one, quick and lively, and
get me that coffee.” Starrett glared furiously
at Rufus’s dusty-looking, sleepy face with its
straggling moustache and narrowed, expres-
sionless eyes. "Yon call yourself a store-
keeper, and you’re nothing but a damn slack
take-down. Yon don’t know any more about
running a store and looking after your cus-
tomers than a cat docs about fine needle-
work. (fet me that coffee by this day week,
or you’ll lose a few more customers.”
Starrett waited to see if Rufus would offer
any back-answer; but Rufius only looked at
him indifferently. The grin had gone from his
taee and his moustache soiemod to bristle a
bit. But that was all; so Starrett snorted
and went out. Rufus wafiehed him go. and
presently crept back to the supine deck-chair
and his book. He shifted the chair round so
that the sun would be full in his face, opened
fho book, and went to sleep.
Some indefinable quality in the second
rapping on the counter brought him swiftly
out of his doze. He was on his feet with
ms former rapid precision and slipping softly
down the corridor befcure the creaking chair
was silent. In the store he beamed to the
accompaniment of a gentle murmuring in his
throat.
"A lovely day. Miss Craven,” he said in a
sort of warm whisper to the handsome, ripe-
looking lady on the public side of the counter,
"its good to see yuu, too, on such a lovely
day.”
Miss Craven’s fine eyes, were looking ice-
cold at. this large fleshy man and his dilating
Ws, his big;, silly moustache. “Some things
are coming for me from H’oxton, and I toid
the carrier to leave them here —he won’t
be passing my house. See that they are
brought om to me. will you?"
"Indeed .1 will, Mfiss Craven. I’ll have the
pleasure of bringing them myself.” He
smiled significantly.
I'll take a half-pound ol’ tea with iup
iio\v." The fine eyes flickered over him in an
indifference too complete even for reproof.
"And a pound of butter, please.”
There was a fawning sadness in Rufus’s
reproachful face as he put the parcel on the
counter. He looked longingly at this fine, ripe
lady, the placating murmur still sounding
dimly in his throat. “Nothing more 1 can do
for you V” he pleaded.
tier ga/.e rested on him for the fifth part
of a second as if she were just conscious that,
he was alive, much as an.earth worm or one of
the lower grubs is alive. "Nothing,” she told
him. and went out.
Rufus watched her going, too, but not
without expression. His wide, dusty face
mourned, his moustache drooped in a sandy
despair. A heavy sigh seemed to quiver all
through his large body as he turned and
went, back to the sun and his book and sleep.
Not for long. For the third time this
afternoon a customer rapped on his counter.
IT is time it was ITo lessor Drew, who blinked
short-sightedly at him.
"Oh—er—Harland.” he said, “it’s an extra-
ordinary thing but I tripped and fell just out-
side your store here, and my case hew open.
lls contents were rather scattered. If you
don’t mind I’ll verify them here on your
counter. And 1 want some tobacco.”
Rufus ambled lightly over to where the
tobacco ought to have been hut wasn't, found
it. and brought a fin hack to the professor,
who had spread papers and books from his
case on the counter. Rufus leaned comfort-
ably down on his elbows and watched.
The professor put a book beside the empty
case and another on top of it. “James Frazer
and 'The Spanish Gate’—that’s right,” he
muttered. "Notes on Transmigration”-—he
collected a few sheets of manuscript—"a
pair of socks, Dale on the spectrum, an
empty tobacco-tin, and”—he opened a small
lacquer box—“HTn! empty".... He rum-
maged hastily among the newspapers and
found four small bundles of thin, withered
little plants. "Yes, but” He plunged
feverishly into the newspapers again and
brought out another small bundle of tiny
blackened sticks. His face cleared. “My
herbs, my necromantic equipment. Interest-
ing and valuable, if entirely inoperative.
Know anything about herbs, Harland?”
“I stock them, Professor, but I don’t know
any more than that about them.”
Professor Drew looked up and blinked.
“Eh? Oh, yes—l see. But 1 don’t mean that
sort of herbs.” He was putting the little
bundles carefully into the lacquer box. "In
my nonage I wrote a paper (which was two-
thirds misinformation) on Necromancy ; and,
old and tired as I am, some heavy-minded
busybody unearths it periodically even now.
And then I am condemned to change my
clothes and go down to Sydney and talk to
him and his colleagues for an hour or so on
a subject which has ceased to interest me."
He looked at the bundles. “I got these in
Europe many years ago. I bought them, in
fact, from a witch.”
Rufus blinked this time, smiling fatuously
at the quite impersonal professor.
"T'a a Bavarian village; a very dirty, evil-
smelling old woman, whose magics were too
cheap to be reliable. This one” —his long
forefinger touched one of the bundles—"is for
the arbitrary determination pre-naral'ly of the
sex of the infant. The eye of a toad and
dragons’ blood enter largely into its efficacy.
This" —he touched another —"is the lord
of longevity, provided that the blood of a
seven-months child and some bone of a mur-
derer are convenient. This” —he picked up
the sheaf of tiny blackened sticks- —"has the
noble merit of simplicity. Brew it---which
means boil it —in rain water, add a pinch
of common salt, a tail-feather of a' black
rooster, and a sprig of rosemary. Stand the
jar in the light of the full moon for one
hour. Drink some; and yon become a cat.
Drink some more when you are a eat, and you
become a man again, My pipe!”
He put the blackened twigs on the counter
and plunged once more into the newspapers
and books. Tie slapped his pockets, and
looked helplessly at Bufus. "I must have
dropped it when 1 fell,” he complained, turn-
ing and hurrying out of the store. ‘TTI be
back in a minute,” he said oyer his shoulder.
When he came hack with his pipe Rufus
was still leaning comfortably on his elbows,
looking tit nothing, and there were five
bundles of herbs on the eonnter —four in the
lacquer box and one beside it.
"Thank you, lT'ai'land.” he said. "If T
hadn’t come in here"- he put the fifth bundle
into the box and the box. books, manu-
script arid socks into the case- —"1 should
probably have lost an excellent pipe. So
thank you for that, too. Good day.”
"Good day, Professor.”
Quite expressionlessly Rufus watched t;fic
professor’s going. Even when he was well
out of sight and there was nothing to see but
the dust and the yellow dog on the pr.b door-
step, Rufus was still leaning ou his elbows,
his wide sandy face motionless, and his eyes
staring at. the nothing that there wrs to see.
* ❖ . tjc
Bob Starrett ducked into the S ansthorpe
store full of importance and indignation. He
glared at the narrow-shouldered, bearded man
behiud tile counter.
"Where’s Rufe?” lie demanded.
"He took a day off. sir. He come to me
only yesterday and asked me to mind the
store for him to-day. What can I do for
you ?”
"Probably dodging me. Can you tell me
if the fool’s got my coffee yet?”
“Your coffee, sir?”
"Yes, my cofiee.” Bob was annoyed; he’d
looked forward to rousing the hide off Rufe.
"Special coffee from Sydney for Mr!
Starrett.”
"I’ll go and see if there’s”
The bearded man drifted out of sight down
the corridor, and the big red cat on the
counter woke up and blinked drowsily at
Starrett, who was muttering impatiently to
himself: “This ziff’s as bad as the other fool,
from the look of him.”
“There seems to boa good many parcels,
one way and another. .Mr. Starrett. some of
’em pretty dusty.” He dumped an armful
on the counter.
They would he. Is my coffee amon o,
cm?”
“I’m just looking.”
“Make it snappy then.” Bob waited.
“ 1 hat’s a fine cat you’ve got there. Is fie
yours?”
“No, sir. I suppose he’s Mr. Harland’s. I
found him here. Asleep on the deck-chair
he Was.”
"1 didn’t know Rufe had a cat. Puss,
puss—poor puss.” Bob Starrett hold our
his hand to the rod cat. “Fine, big puss !”
The rod cat was on his feet in a sort of
massive lightness and sidling down the coun-
ter while Bob was still speaking, his loud
hollow purring seeming to till the store. Ho
reached Starrett* and leaned heavily against
the outstretched hand.
"He seems to like you. Mr. Starrett.”
Did heV A red paw Hashed up, hung mur-
derously above Starrett’s hand, and came
down with savage swiftness on his wrist.
It clawed through to Iris finger-tips, so that
the-boarded man drew in his scared breath.
On the instant the hand was smeared and
spattered with blood. Starrett’s white,
furious face stared at the cat, and the cat
stared blandly back, the hint of a mocking
smile behind his yellow eyes. Starrett
raised his other hand, but a streak tied up-
ward. and the cat was on a rafter washing
his face in bored indifference.
“Well, I'm damned!” Starrett looked
down at his scored and bleeding hand. “Here,
never mind the coffee--give us a bit of rag
and I'll get home and wash and dress
this.” He glanced up at the cat. “You
wait, my lad,” he said, his voice heavy with
menace.
The cat paused in his toilet to look al
Starrett from his height. In the half-light
tip there lie seemed to grin in a sandy com-
placence ; there was a sort of sleek satisfac-
tion in his manner of turning to watch
Starrett\s going. When he. had gone the
cat dropped softly down and sat on the coun-
ter again.
“What happened youV” the bearded man
asked. “You’re an uncertain eat, that’s what
you are,”
The heavy purring boomed placatingly
through the store, and the eat rubbed his
ear against the man’s sleeve.
“That's all very well, but it’s not a fair
thing to tear your master's customers to
pieces.”
The cat looked up at him and blinked,
the booming purr subsiding to a murmur.
Looking at him the man saw that he blinked
with only one eye.
“I’ll take these parcels back,” the man
said. “If his coffee’s among ’em he can
send round for it.”
Miss Craven came in her handsome way,
and the red cat: stood up. arching his back
and Huffing out his tail. His narrowed yellow
eyes searched her face,' and his purr was a
warm soft thunder, She looked at him and
smiled.
“Puss!” she said, “puss!” stroking his
head. “You arc a big, handsome cat.”
A gradual ecstasy descended on the cat.
«He rubbed his head against her arm, and
gazed up swooning into her face. She put
her arm round him and snuggled him close
to her.
“Nice pussy,” she crooned; “you seem to
like me.”
A delirium of joy seized the eat. He
buried his head in the crook of her arm,
singing and purring her praise so that it
seemed impossible for his throat not to
crack. She laughed and kissed the top of
his. head. “I haven't got a eat now. And
I like cats, and they like me. But 1 never
expected a stranger-cat to take me on trust
like this.... You don't know me, pussy; 1
might be a dreadful, cat-beating woman*!”
Like distant drums of denial the warm,
thunderous purring echoed round the store
while the red eat marched before her on the
counter, massive and magnificent. The little
bearded man came back.
"Two pounds of sugar and a packet of
envelopes, please,” she said, and stroked
the cat’s head until the parcel was made.
“Thank you. Good-bye, pussy.” She
patted his head, and was gone. * The life
gradually faded from the eat, as it sat
watching the place where she had been,
* * :> .•)!
A faint’, troubled weariness showed in
Rufus Ilarland’s face as he listened to this
definite young man.
"I happen to know,” the young man was
saying, "that Richardsons intend to act
pretty soon, too. They don’t want to be
hard, any more than ire do— we’ve all given
you a fair go. But you’re nearly nine
months behind. You’ve got to come" at it,
Mr. Ilarland.”
“Yes. I suppose I have.” Rufus’s lustre
less eyes looked at the young man, who
promptly put even more definiteness into his
attitude.
“Well, we won’t wait after the 15th, and
Richardsons won’t, and Selbys won’t. What
can you let us have by then ?”
Rufus’s gaze drifted from the young man's
tiiin face to the sunny patch on the store’s
front verandah. "I don’t know. I’ll do the
best I can.”
“That’s no good. My orders are a definite
promise and undertaking from you, or no
more goods on any terms. And summary
action on the loth.”
(Continued on page 57.)
Hurry Along to Rio .
The winds are blowing, and the seas
run high,
And there's lots more weather la the
mack'rel sky ;
The gals are waring us a last farewell,
And it’s half-past seven by the fo’c's’le
boll
The pilot's dinghy's come alongside,
And we’ll slide down the river cm the
late ebb tide.
So hurry along! Hurry along!
Hurry along, my lads, to Rio!
We mayn't see land again till Lord
knows when,
Perhaps two months, and perhaps not
then.
We’ve left our dollars with the crimps
on shore.
And we’ll all smell tar before we get
more!
It's cold dog’s body and it’s hot lob-
scowse
For the deck-swabs for’ard o’ the
’prentice-house!
So hurry along! Hurry alono!
Hurry along, my tads, to Rio!
•S.A.
The cool's a nigger, and the mate's a
Jew.:
There's not one sailor in the whole
ship's crew
Bar old Bill Barnacle and you and me
That knows Thames water porn the
clean blue sea!
The mate's half fuddled and the Old
Man’s drunk.
With a gallon of nun stowed under
his bunk!
Bo hurry along! Hurry along!
Hurry along, my lads, to Rio!
They tell me Rio is a first-chop
spot.
And the gals in Rio are a tip-top
lot :
But give rue Ratcliffe on a Saturday
night
Where for eighteen-pence I can blow
me tight;
We’re many a thousand mile to roam,
And the quicker we're out the sooner
we're home!
Bo hurry along! Hurry along!
Hurry along, my lads, to Rio!
CHARLES HENRY SODPER.


Ban king, Public Companies, eic,
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
MELBOURNE BRANCH:
347 COLLINS STREET.
Guaranteed Stock .. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares . . . . . 1,875,000
Long Term Mortgage Shares .. 703,125
Ordinary Shares . .. . . 3,750,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 4,042,591
GRANTS DRAFTS
Great Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
and transacts all other usual Banking business.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1805.
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE: 305 QUEEN STREET.
PERTH OFFICE: ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE.
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: 207 COLLINS STREET.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 279 GEORGE STREET.
Paid Up Capital .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund . . .. .. .. 985,000
£2,235,000
Reserve liability of shareholders .. 1,250,000
£3,485,000
Also 122 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
London Office: 11 LEA DEN HALL STREET, E.C.
Agencies in all Australian States and throughout the
world.
Drafts and Letters of Credit issued on London,
America and elsewhere. Bills from abroad
collected and proceeds remitted. All usual
banking business transacted.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
** should read the British Australian
and New Zealander, Ud. weekly—an illus
trated paper containing mail and cable news
from Australia and news of Australians in
Europe and at home. Australians are cordi-
ally invited to visit the British Australian
and New Zealander Beading-room at the
offices, 414-17 Australia House, Strand,
London, W.G.2, where they can see the homo
papers, meet their friends use the telephone
and obtain information without charge.
Copies of the paper and general information
can be obtained at the Australian Advertis-
ing Agency, Ltd.. .‘>so George Street, Sydney :
or 434 Collins Street. Melbourne.
9
ik:
ASTHMA
Catarrh,Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough,
Colds in the Head
Yield at once
to the soothing
fumes of
2/6 per Tin from all
Vendors
POTTER & CLARKE. LTD..
Artillery Lane. London. Eng.
For outdoors, use
Potter's SMOKING
Mt X T ORE and
CIGARETTES
1
ASTHMA
ssJPOWDER
Medicine
•w
THE
NEW ZEALAND REFEREE
THE NATIONAL ILLUSTRATED
SPORTING WEEKLY.
Official Organ of
N.Z. RACING CONFERENCE
trotting conference
N.Z. HUNTS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. GUN CLUBS ASSOCIATION
N.Z. COURSING ASSOCIATION
NORTH ISLAND SHEEP DOG
TRIAL ASSOCIATION
N.Z. KENNEL CLUB
N.Z. GOLF ASSOCIATION
N.Z. POLO ASSOCIATION
Gives direct contact with a
proved buying class,
The
SPORTING COMMUNITY OF
NEW ZEALAND.
Manufacturers and distributors
interested in this desirable mar-
ket can obtain fullest informa-
tion as to service upon applica-
tion to—
THE N.Z. REFEREE NEWS-
PAPER CO., LTD.,
P.O. Box 1481,
WELLINGTON, N.Z.
Or to any of the World’s Leading
Advertising Agencies.
“THE WOMAN’S MIRROR.”
PRICE .. 3d.
Contains everything a woman needs to know.
Shipping, etc.
Excursions to HAWAII
The Canadian-
Australasian Line
will shortly commence it s
Summer Excursion Runs, which,
by specially reduced rates, bring
within your reach an interesting
voyage on a large and modern
liner with a holiday to follow in
Hawaii.
This famous little Island of the
South Seas is a cosmopolitan
holiday centre, world-famous for
its endless Summer sunshine, the
matchless surf of Waikiki Beach,
is tropical scenic splendor and its
carefree languorous life.
Sail by the Aorangi or Niagara (via
Auckland and Suva) on either of these
dates: November 14, December 12,
January 9, February 6. Excursion Rates:
£75 First Saloon £55 Second
Union Steam Ship Co.,
247 George Street, Sydney
59 William Street, Melbourne
BURNS-PHILP TOURS
JAVA
(The Land of Eternal Summer).
OLD BUDDHISTIC AND HINDUISTIC
TEMPLES —NATIVE BAZAARS.
EXCELLENT BIG-GAME SHOOTING.
BEAUTIFUL TROPICAL SCENERY.
EXTENSIVE TEA GARDENS. .
INTERESTING PEOPLE.
Regular monthly sailings by the favorite
vessels "MARELLA (7500 tons) and
"MALABAR” (5000 tons).
Pacific Island Excursions
To Papua, New Guinea, Solomon
Islands, Lord Howe Island, Norfolk
Island and New Hebrides.
TRIPS OF FROM TWO TO FIVE WEEKS’
DURATION.
Make your selection now and Book Early.
Apply to
BURNS, PHILP & COMPANY, LTD.,
Svdnev. Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide.
ih
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ESTABLISHED 1817
With which is amalgamated
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
mk
£7,500,000
5,900,000
7,500,000
£20.900,000
AGGREGATE ASSETS SEPTEMBER SO, 1028, £88,982,085.
GcneraJ Manager, ALFRED CHARLES DAVIDSON.
Head Office: George St., Sydney. London Office: 29 Threadneedle St., E.C.2.
554 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, Federal Territory, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua
Mandated Territory of New Guinea, and London. Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.’
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills Negotiated
and collected. Letters of Credit issued, negotiable throughout the world.
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
ESTABLISIIED 1834.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL:" £12,000,000.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND - 4,200,000 0 0
RESERVE CAPITAL - - - 4,739,012 10 0
£13,678,025 0 0
Directors:
OEORGE .TUDAII COIIEN (Chairman) ;
Hon. JAMES ASHTON, M.L.C.; OWEN ESMOND FRIEND; Major-General
the Hon. JAMES WILLIAM MACARTHUR ONSLOW 7 , V.D., M.L.C.;
EDWARD RITCHIE KNOX.
General Manager: J. R. DRYHURST.
HEAD OFFICE: Sydney, 343 George Street.
London Office—lB Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
Branches throughout Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South -Australia, and at Canberra,
federal Territory. Agencies throughout Australia and New Zealand, and ail other parts or
the world.
\ll Classes of General Banking and Exchange Business Transacted.
SAFE DEPOSIT VAULTS. —lnspection invited. Particulars of
Safe Rentals on application.
Shipping, etc.
Inter-State Steamship
Sailings.
(Passenger Sailings—Circumstances permitting.)
FOR MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and FREMANTLE
(Transhipping for outports).
BRISBANE, via BYRON BAY
Through Tickets to Brisbane issued.
S.S. OHARA—Every Saturday evening; passengers
due Brisbane Monday afternoon.
S.S. WOLLONGBAR —Every Tuesday evening;
passengers due Brisbane Thursday afternoon.
Both vessels fitted with Wireless Receiving Sets.
BRISBANE.
FARES,—
Steamer and Motor throughout, Single, £4
Steamer and Motor throughout, Return, £7/#/•
Steamer and First-class Rail, Single, £3/15/.
Steamer and Second-class Rail, Single, £3/8/-
NORTH COAST S. N. CO., LTD.,
Passengers’ Booking Office:
TOURIST BUREAU, CIIALIJS HOUSE,
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
Brisbane Booking Agents: Burns, Pliilp & Co., Ltd.,
Bryces Chambers, 134-36 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamship)
Huddarl ParkerU^
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND—ReguIar sailings
from Sydney to New Zealand ports and vice versa.
Particulars to Ire obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA—From Sydney to Hobart
and vice versa as per daily papers. Between Mel-
bourne and Launceston ns per daily papers,
For full particulars apply HUDDAHT PARKER LIMITED
ColllnaStreet, Melbourne; Br idge Street, Sydney,
Keep hopping and hoping if you wish
lo succeed — think of
SOHUTE,
BELL&C°m
if you havo
Wool & Skins
to Sell.
Personal Attention
Offices: 44 Bridte Street. Sydney.
f
If any illustration in Thk Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the Manager, who will
quote you price for me original.
PROGRESS
A 65 % increase in 5 months.
THE NET SALES OF
%
VCA
VAHJ
NEWS PICTORIAL
SOUTH AUSTRALIA’S ONLY
PICTORIAL DAILY
HAVE INCREASED OVER 65%
During 5 months ended June 30.
Statement backed up by two independent
firms of Auditors —
COUNSELL, BOOTH & HUNWICK,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
and
S. POWELL,
Chartered Accountant (Aust.).
July shows further substantial
The notable success of Australian
I for 1929.
increases.
Journalism
Sydney:
F. Thompson, Lisgar House,
30 Carrington Street.
Melbourne:
G. N. Bednall, The “Herald” Office.
London:
A. J. Chard, 92 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.2.
REGISTER NEWSPAPERS,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE.


, [-J,, -
a aw
ss2yg~
I
g
&3
gpiii
,—^
m
THUS/: ENCHANTING CCCXTAIE GLASSES
and glass shaker arc a 500 c/ example 0/ the versatility
oi Stuart Crystal craftsmen. Whether you want
hand.=cut glass of classic shape > or the airiest whim 0/
the modern designer > you will find the loveliest crystal
hears the registered name Stuart.
istel
a,
English If and~ made Crystal
Chtainahle wherever beautiful glass is sold
*WMCH£ST£R
TRADE MARK
FLASHLIGHTS AND BATTERIES
—as Cjood as the Qun
IF you know Winchester Rifles
and Shotguns you know Win-
chester quality. And you will
find this same fine quality in'
Winchester Batteries and-Flash-
lights — a light adapted to every
use, with special features of con-
struction and convenience that
no other flashlight gives.
In the three-cell focusing flash-
light shown above, note the stur-
dy construction, the deeply cor-
rugated case, the positive, easily
operated switch and the octagon
cap which keeps the light from
tolling off a table when you lay
it down. Note particularly the
special hook hanger by which
you can hook your light to belt
or pocket or to a rod, cord, au-
tomobile hood, tree branch—and
at many other points where' a
light cannot usually be hung.
When you think of Winchester, think of
flashlight., and batteries as well as of guns.
WINCHESTER REPEATING 20
ARMS COMPANY
NEW HAVEN, CONN., U S.
1
s
s
§
j jinnim
mm
mu
WMCBESTER
WXASHUCg^
ONE FREEHOLD ACRE
Planted with 680 Pinus Insignia trees, estimated to produce in 10 years £250 for an outlay
of £3O (in easv instalments) —this albne should be sufficient inducement to purchase a Bond
in DOMINION FORESTS’ ISSUE.
BUT
When a FREE LIFE ASSURANCE POLICY FOR £250 covering a period of 10 years is
added, the investment is unique. A DOMINION FORESTS’ BOND OFFERS YOU THIS.
BE A BONDHOLDER. NO YEARLY PREMIUMS.
NO MEDICAL EXAMINATION.
Cover the Life Risk whilst the trees grow.
Write for Prospectus to PACIFIC UNDERWRITERS,
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Sale Brokers for DOMINION FORESTS, LTD. (an Australian Company Planting in N.E.).
“I'll post you twenty pounds.”
“Twenty devils!” The wholesale man’s
eves snapped in scorn. “Look—i’ll tell you
wliat you’ve got. to do by the loth, if you
want to be storekeeper here after that date!”
U hen he had gone Rufus drifted desolately
round the store. He’d gone through a good
Lit of that sort of thing in the past, few
wars, lie knew it ought to have stirred him,
hill vou couldn't make yourself different from
what vou were. Not that that eliap to-day
hadn't got on his nerves a bit. But his
narrowed, drowsy eyes turned away from
this dusty confusion and sought again that
white, sunny patch on the front verandah.
He saw that it was darkened by the
shadow of a slow-moving figure. Old Mr.
Kellett came into the store.
What he had to say ought to have been
disquieting too; but Rufus's stolid face
didn't seem to think it mattered much.
... , ,j • .. . .
•You haven’t paid me sixpence of interest
mi my mortgage on tins property for the
past two years, Rufus, the old man was
saymg gravely Its distasteful to me to
,aIK ] i ke OiW ZTI i rs n°" l'- 1 , hc
Store he started and inn so well until Ins
1 ea '■
There was a good deal more of this, to
which Rufus listened m uneasy silence.
In the end Mr. Kellett laid a paper on
the counter. “The details are there. Rufus,"
be said. “Lnless the amount is pool in full
by the. last day of this month I must fore-
close.”
Rufus knew Mr. Kellett, and he knew
that this would happen as surely as to-
morrow’s dawn. Bui he found liinisolf star-
ing sleepily at the white patch on the ver-
andah floor as it slowly darkened and became
white again.
For a space he remained motionless be-
land his counter. Man and boy, he’d been
there a good few years. In a way it had
been a nuisance.
He tried to pull himself together. There
w a.s a lot to think about,
But it drifted away, and he was leaning
on his elbows and staring down the sleepy
street. There was tlie dog on the pub door-
step, Starrctt s house, the profiissor's cottage
b ''. lu . lld that green garden Miss Craven’s
l, * d '' l ® ( V ted ,
, / t o "’!' and him,. -.Jt at last and stood up-
.’ A He looked at the jumbled stock
hanging from the rafters and littered against
tbf ‘ walls at. the thick dust on everything,
V grinned, and went, light l\ down the cor-
i'. ROr an( j . ou ." 110 H ’ yard to the tumble-
* own P°tting-shed.
A red cat appeared in the pool of sunshine
<»n the potting-shed floor. He yawned and
stretched,'leaping softly up to the sill of the
broken window when,:c the white warmth
came. IDs yellow, shallow eyes saw the
drowsy street, the pub, the houses, and
lh ,, s ,- (>1 warm j, the gardPTl where
MisfJ C ravon lived; slowly he withdrew into
hiinS(>lf iu full content, folding his paws
iUlt] doepenins his eyes.
He looked from the street to tlm walls of
(|l( , storo and ,pcfding paint, the huddle
of packing-cases in the yard, the. pile of
rubbish in the corner. 11 is eves became
shallow and cold again, and hc turned hack
to the sleepy street,
Presently lie lifted his head, lie leapt down
from the window-sill, and for a moment
stood looking at a jar behind the old fern
tub. The moment gone, he lifted a red paw
and overturned the. jar. from which he had
drunk a few minutes ago, and watched its
contents soak into the earthen floor and
vanish.
When (hero was nothing left save the
overturned empty jug, he turned with his
soft deliberateness, slipped through the. nor-
ridor and the store, ami I rutted off to the
red-roofed house, behind the garden. The rich
thunder of content murmured in his throat.
Polo—and Hippy.
STEELE RUDD
TELLS ANOTHER STORY OF THE NEW SELECTION.
IT will be a crisp, velvety Queensland
morning in May-one of those mornings
- when, though fighting against, irregular
rainfall, middlemen and officialdom, you’ll
feel it's grand to be alive and amongst it all.
You'll have returned to your little homestead
after having delivered the morning’s milk to
the factory, and will be preparing to carry
on where you had left off late the evening
before, pulling your bit of corn, while round
about the yard the dairy cows will still be
ramped contentedly chewing at the cud. Dis-
simulating willie-wagtails will he hopping
and dancing about the backs of them, waltz-
ing from their tails to their horns, and
serenading them, even giving the unsophisti-
cated, unsuspecting, surly old Jersey bull a
turn, at the same time plucking and pinch-
ing beaks’-full of hair from their coats, and
flying off to upholster their nests with the
stolen goods. In the art of cheerfully and
barefacedly purloining things, the “sweet-
pretty-little-William” has no equal in the
feathered world. But you’ll pay no atten-
tion as you pass him by.
Before you reach the corn-paddock, how-
ever, a string of polo-players sporting white
breeches and top-boots, with polo-sticks
strapped behind their shoulders, each
mounted on a good style of hack and leading
a pair of clipped, corn-fed ponies, all in the
pink of condition, and looking hqrd and
tough and fit to play for an empire, will
suddenly catch your eye. Then you’ll stand
and stare while your heart’ll go faster. Those
polo men will pull up short out of a canter
—a long, long canter it will have been, too!
—and passing through. your open gate in
treble file will hail you loud and joyously
by your Christian name, inquiring in chorus:
“Why th’ devil ain’t yon getting ready to
go in to see the match?”
Great stars! Before you can get over
your surprise and make answer, they’ll he
riding right up to you, asking;
“Don’t you play at all now, Dick? Have
you given the game up altogether?”
"Darn me eyes! Why, it’s tli' l’liilp
boys!” you’ll jerk out, grinning in happy
recognition, of them.
And, failing to ride you down, they’ll
'haw in, gathering all round you, chuckling
a»d laughing like the real sportsmen they
are. Of course, you’ll know them —the three
famous mountain riders who, since the time
their father used to strap them to the
s addie, have known no life other than that
on the hack of a horse, and with whom in
days past yon played polo and rode scores of
wiles and locomoted hundreds more to play
it—you could hardly forget them!
Ah me, you’ll be pleased to see those old
mates again, even though on appearances
they have done better than you in the world
since you separated. And you’ll notice
they’ve scarcely grown, a day older in the
saddle. And they’ll be just as pleased • to
see you.
“Willie, Eddie and Artie,” you’ll repeat
Proudly, almost inaudibly, as you look them
jtnd their troop of ponies, greys, bays and
browns, all over. And when one by one,
Miile adjusting their reins, they’ll reach
down from the saddle to shake hands with
J'ou, the ponies will be champing the bits,
stamping, swinging about in a half-right and
left kind of fashion, crowding you, shoviug
■ v ou with shoulders and hindquarters as if
**®dy and eager to trample you in the dust
°f your own little homestead.
But you won’t he thinking of the law of
; your blood will start
Singling and your eyes dancing at sound
those voices and sight of the top-boots
;'Pd_ spurs, bright stirrups and polo-sticks
"gain. And when you gush impulsively:
Ghost! Wouldn’t I like to he one of you.
to_ havp another smack at it!” you’ll
av e said all that your heart will allow
■ ou to at the moment.
..Then. when, those mountain-reared bro-
kers, filled with quiet gladness, will hope
t<> see you playing with them again one flay,
and making those runs you used to on Hippy
down the side and round the wings, putting
in those near-side forward hits on her that
used to paralyse those who tried to ride
you off, your memory will lly back to matches
at Toowoomba, Spring Creek. Ipswich, Emu
Creek, Brisbane and other places, and your
eyes will glimmer till the scene before you
and the green sward beneath is a phan-
tom polo-ground, with the dairy-cows' por-
tion of the spectators, and you yourself
standing there booted and spurred, puffing
and leaning on a polo-stick!
But on the boys asking “Have you got a
pair of shoeing-pineers on the homestead.
Dick?” you’ll come quickly out of that day-
dream.
“Yes, course!” you’ll say, with feelings of
fresh prid<—the pride of proprietorship.
As the ponies, swing round you’ll scurry
across, leading the way to your blacksmith-
shop, a flat-roofed bark shed, with two. sides
and one end to it. The other end is ils
open door. Inside there’ll be a forge with
a small bellows installed and other fittings—
an anvil, a heap of old iron, a pile of mis-
cellaneous horseshoes, tongs, hammers, hooks,
broken swingle-trees, scraps of wire apd
greenhide, and a broken dray-shaft. You’ll
be proud of your blacksmith-shop, too —proud
because you designed and built it yourself,
and collected everything that is in. it. And
while the Philp boys are dismounting at the
shop-door sorting out the ponies and fasten-
ing the reins of some of them, yon’ll be
tossing tools about in search of the pincers
and a hammer.
“Which of them first?” you'll ask. brand-
ishing a rasp, as well as the pincers; but
when on looking round you’ll see one of
the boys bent double with the grey pony’s
front foot held fast between his knees, at
the same time motioning you to hand him
the tools, you’ll think of bis snow-white
riding-pants and the chances of their getting
ripped by the nails, and him having to
take the field, ns yon have had to do your-
self times before, with a handkerchief tied
round bis leg to bide his shame. Then you’ll
ask him what he’s up 1;o'. and, bending beside
him, you’ll reach for life pony’s foot and
place it between your own knees. He’ll
stand by hitching at his belt and holding the
halter-rein to keep the animal still for your
benefit. Like a skilled tradesman yon’ll
handle the rasp and pincers, and in a minute
or so you’ll be lugging and twisting that
shoe till you toss it aside. And when the
others, looking on, will compliment you,
you'll grin proudly, and go on attending to
the rest, putting the rasp on them and
trimming their hooves. You’ll straighten up
at the finish, perspiring; and with a pain
in your back you’ll move amongst those
ponies, patting them, sfcrutinising them and
asking about their breeding and the rest.
And when the brothers, without discount-
ing the merits of any, will assure you with
enthusiasm that none of them ever were and
never will he as good, or half as good, as
the Hippy mare you used to play on in the
days gone by, your memory will fly back to
her achievements, and to the thrills and
triumphs yon shared with her.
“That little bay bloke there of Artie’s
beside you,” one will suggest, indicating a
pony on whose hindquarters you will be
leaning, “is something like Hippy was when
you first played her, Dick?”
“Something,” you’ll agree—“a bit higher
perhaps, but hasn’t her rein or chest.”
“He hasn’t Hippy’s face either,” another
brother will supplement as they all start
collecting the ponies and gathering the reins
together—“nor her brains and gameness.”
Then, as all three reach the saddles: “Her
sort, Dick, are few and far between!”
You won’t say anything at the moment,
for yon can’t help picturing the little mare
in your mind, and thinking what a wonder
she really was. One you had bred and reared
and trained yourself; one that had carried
you so often into the limelight; and a faith-
ful companion to you in the saddle and out
of it. And the thoughts of her will stir fee]
(Continued on next page.)


*4 STRENGTH
gives out
You Have Neglected Your
Health Trouble Too Long
PROBABLY the majority of men (and women, too)
who complain of constant dreadful dizziness, pains
in back, joints and muscles, irritableness, loss of vigor,
fail to realise that the seat of their trouble lies in the
kidneys. The kidneys are certainly the most vital of all
bodily organs. On them depends the purity of the blood
and consequently the strength or weakness of nerves and
muscles. When the kidneys fail, poisons accumulate in
the blood, which cause pain in the muscles and joints.
Nerves become frayed and irritated. No wonder you are
often weak and dizzy.
What is the good of "doping the system with so-called
"tonics”? Why weaken the body with purging salts when
the only possible means of re-establishing health and
vigor is to restore the kidneys to healthy action?
Thousands of one-time sufferers
say this remedy is marvellous!
Do you know thousands of people have found that by
taking a short course of treatment with De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills they have enjoyed a new lease of life?
Men and women once crippled with pain, bed-ridden,
have once again enjoyed splendid vigor and vitality.
Thousands recommend this remedy, which sells by
millions of bottles the world over. Why not ask your
chemist about De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills? Ask
him his candid opinion. He will tell you all about the
splendid prescription printed on the box, and why it can,
will and must do you good.
HERE IS TESTIMONY
TO CONVINCE YOU
There are a host of people around you,
a number in your own district, who have
proved how quickly De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills have brought relief from pain
and suffering. It is for you to follow their
example. Read just this one letter of thanks
for health restored by “De Witt’s.
Mr. W. H. Curtis, 31 Wright Street, Adel-
aide, writes: —“About five years ago I was
laid up for sixteen weeks with neuritis and rheumatism, partially
paralysed. I was recommended De Witt s Kidney and Bladder
Pills, which, lam happy to say, pulled me through. lam 74
years of age and still able to hold my own with younger men.
I have enjoyed the best health ever since.
If you are troubled with
Pains in the Back
Bad Taste in the Mouth
Bad Nights
Rings or Bags under the Eyes
Depression and Tired Feeling
Loss of Vigor
Aching Limbs
Sallow Complexion
Rheumatism
Lumbago
Pains in Joints
Weak Back
Sciatica
Bladder Trouble
go to your chemist now and secure a 3/6 suppply of this invalu-
able health-bringer. There is a more economical size, 6/6, usuall?
sufficient for the most difficult case. This scientific preparatio-
will do you good from the very first dose. In 24 hours you wi
see their action and realise they are acting directly at the seat
of your trouble—the kidneys. Get your supply of
“De Witt’s” to-day, and get health as thousands of
others have done.
De WITTS
KIDNEY
AND
BLADDER
PILLS
nr
#
V\
1
Ni
2
J /
/A
%
//
;/ /
S
Wm
/ \rz*
ings that will dim your eyes, till a further
question or two will lift you out of your
brief reverie.
“She was out of a Blarkbutt mare,” you’ll
answer, ‘‘by Young Olyjmpic, a trotter on
the Clifton side, if you remember?”
And as they gaze down on you, their eyes
brimming with the light of fellowship of
horse, while they adjust their halter reins
and fumble with neatly-booted feet for the
off stirrup-irons, you'll go jon to explain feel-
ingly, as though you weri* speaking of a lost
relation, that you 'had her for two or three
years after leaving their part of the world
aud giving up the game. And, stroking the
pony nearest you on his arched and-glowing
neck, you'll add after a silence: “l took
her with me on a big droving trip to the
Cooper, aud across the Barkly, and just as
she used to follow a polo-ball she would
keep ou the heels of a beast. A marvellous
mare at cutting-out on a camp, Gad she
was!”
The others, shaking their heads approv-
ingly as they sit erect in the saddles, will
“guess she would be!”
“She would never take up with other horses
at night,” you'll continue: “and uo matter
where it was or what sort of country wo
were going through, no brumby mobs could
entice her away with them.”
“And the stallions at the head of some
of those mobs running along the Culgoa and
the Warrego were a daring darn lot too!”
the eldest brother, reminded of past adven-
tures of his own, will put in.
“No matter how dark the night was,”
you’ll go on, “if I lifted my head from under
the blanket and called out her uame—or if
I was mooching round quietly by myself, as
you know a fellow does out there sometimes,
or along with a mate—she'd whinny to me
to let me know she was about.. And if I
didn't answer she’d come closer and whinny
again.”
“Remember the match we played against
Spring Creek, Dick?" one in uo burry to
go will ask with fervor. And slowly shaking
your head and secfiiirig to smile away back
in the past, you’ll stroke the coat of the flea-
bitten grey before you in silent thought.
“You wou that match on Hippy for us,
Dick, when you went right through the lot
of them and got that last goal with an
under-th’-neck hit —a beauty it was!”
You’ll remember it all.
“They had us walloped up to that. Mars
den and Caswell were playing the game of
their lives—Marsden, reckless as Hell, riding
across us and over us and on our heels."
You’ll chuckle, thinking of Marsden swing-
ing out/ wheeling at racing pace, swerving
and riding off without ever pulling .a rein.
“We took you out of No. 3 and put you
up in the front,” they'll remind you with
gleaming eyes. “And, by the terrors, if
Hippy didn't shake them up that day no-
thing ever did ! From side to side and from
end to end she kept them riding, after her
like Hell, and I don't think you missed
a stroke, Dick. Darned if you did!”
Seeing them still smiling down on you,
and making no signs of going, you'll find your
voice again.
“Great as she was at polo,” you’ll toll
them, “I think she was even better after
stock. The last time I rode her was after
cattle over the Dividing Range, not many
miles from here, on Ma-Ma Creek. After
mustering most of the day on her, I was.
making back with young Gower, carrying
a tomahawk that we’d found near an old
sawpit.”
“In a red-cedar gully off the creek?" one
of them will suggest, and you'll nod iu
agreement.
"And coming along under Tipsy I’oint,”
you’ll proceed, “one of those long herring-
gutted, yellow-aud-white goannas, not unlike
three or four feet of centipede, about a hun-
dred yards on ahead of us, was scurrying
for its life across our track, making for a
big old-man gum-tree. Ther'e’d been no rain
for a good while. »o the grass was pretty
well eaten out and bare.”
Anticipating you, the boys will start
chuckling.
“ ‘Watch me head that eov<' before he
reaches th’ tree!’ I said to Gower. And the
darn goanna had only about twenty yards
or so to go to reach it. But before Gower
had time to grin I touched Hippy with my
heels and off she went like a shotgun : and
holding the tomahawk as a polo-stick I rode
like a bushranger, making record reckon-
ings of pace and distance. Gad ! When the
yellow' crawler heard the rattle of her hooves
he put the pace on. working his stumpy
legs like machinery and wriggling from bis
head to his tail.”
The brothers, leaning back in their saddles,
will applaud the goanna in mirth, finally
chorusing: “And who won, Dick?”
“Th' darn yellow wriggler beat us for the
tree.by a yard, and was starting up it as
Hippy flashed past, darn near putting her
off-front foot on his tail as it followed after
him.”
Their mirth will broaden.
“But you know what a champion Hippy
was at wheeling full gallon?" you'll continue.
"Well, soon as she passed the tree —scatter-
ing dust and dead leaves over th’ goanna
too—l brought her round in her stride, right
on her haunches, and back she raced, taking
the old gum on the opposite side; and as
we flew' past again the tail of the dog-scared
goanna w'as wriggling level with my shoul-
der. Taking a pot-shot at it with the
tommy, darned if I didn't amputate it at
th' butt —the cleanest job eyer you saw!”
The roars that wdll come from the polo
men will start the ponies jumping.
“And when I wheeled her again,” you'll
grin, "and looked up into the tree along
with Gower, there was our noble goanna
perched on the highest branch, and w'hcn
he turned his eyes down on us you never
say anyone look so darned indignant!”
As the.mirth subsides, the brothers will
inquire: “W T hat did you do with Hippy,
• Dick —sell her?”
“In a way I did.” you'll tell them. "I let
Tom Allen have her for twenty quid after
she got in foal to a clumsy-footed, wooden-
headed draught-horse. Tom played her a
while, and then sold her for a hundred to
a cove who came along buying polo-ponies for
the Horderns. But I can’t imagine city fel-
lows doing any good on a mare like Hippy!”
Then in turn the Philp boys will reach
down across their horses to bid you a so-
long and shake hands warmly. And as you
watch their mounted forms stringing out
through your gateway, you'll live again in
fancy those days when you, too, rode through
mountain passes and over sunlit plains to
line-up and mark your man on the polo fields
of the south and east of Queensland.
Twofold Bay.
From Irnlay proudly rearing his tall
compelling crown,
The white clouds coming seaward cast
flying shadows down ;
By blue sky-captains marshalled. in
regiments they pass,
To silent marching orders above the
waving grass.
Rude hands on trembling tree-tops the
west winds fiercely lay;
They whip protesting waters o’er troubled
Twofold Bay,
And drive, like drunken shepnerds, their
helpless herded flocks
Of white-capped waves in anger on hungry
shoreward rocks.
’Neath fleeting flecks of sunlight the litten
lines unfold
Of ranges briefly reigning in pale dim robes
of gold:
Their short-lived glories vanish as spreads
returning cloud
Along that distant skyline its cold,
encircling shroud.
From chimneys in the village a scattered
smoke outpours,
Caught up by gusty breezes and wafted
round the shores :
Beside his hearthstone smoking a tillage
greybeard dreams
Of years that lie behind him, when heavy
bullock-teams
Brought down from high Monaro the early
squatters’ hales.
And ‘neath the hills at anchor rode ships
with waiting sails;
Or tales his father told him of still an
older day
When blacks were bad in Bega, ere Boyd
came in the bay.
All bound for cold Kiandra, he sees again
a hand '
lii wide slouch hats and moleskins from
some small coaster land.
Equipped with picks and blankets, tin-dish
and swag and tent.
The rough-and-ready vanguard on buried
riches bent.
Anon, by Fortune favored, some came to
Eden town
To take a passage elsewhere, or knock their
winnings down :
Then Sally at. the Sea Horse, while
concertinas played,
Drew bearded lovers to her and did a
roaring trade
Until a lucky digger—or so the story rail—
Was robbed in Sally’s parlor and snot her
fancy man ; . .
But when a jury freed him, those early
legends say,
She wed that lucky digger, sold out and
sailed away !
The greybeard by his fireside upon the west
wind hears
The well-remembered voices of dead colonial
years;
He sees, in red coals pictured, fond faces
that he knew.
When down yon rugged ranges a gold escort
came through
In times of slower travel, in days of
horsemen bold.
Who rode by painted coaches that carried
girls and gold.
Aye, days of beef and damper and long
percussion guns,
When hardy stockmen guarded the lonely
cattle runs.
Dark hulls of greasy whalers no more at
Boydtown ride,
Xor trading schooners tarry for change of
wind and tide:
Xo more will hoof-boats echo as ranging
riders go,
Xor rattle o’er rough roadways the 'wheels
of Cobb and CO;
Xow gallant: youths of Eden drink beer iii
Rudd’s hotel,
Whose graudsires in the graveyard drank
rum, the gossips tell :
Xow shades of grandmas shudder and shake
their ghostly curls
When round the links of Eden trudge
short-frocked golfing girls!
Where wheezed a concertina in lamp-lit
nights of yore
Canned music calls the couples to jazz a
dance-room floor;
Where woke a coachman’s bugle the echoes
of the dale,
A motor-horn announces the coming daily
mail.
So Change, with iron fingers upon his
flying pen, ~ I
Doth ever write new chapters within the
Book of Men :
So wags the world for ever :so alter human
ways....
But they were brave and bonny, those old
Colonial days.
And still unchanged from Imlay the west
wind hurries dowm
As when Ben Boyd went sailing away from
Eden town;
And still the ivhite clouds, sweeping, in
marching order pass
Above the, bending forest and oer the
waving grass.
And by his fireside sitting an old man
faintly bears
The voices of his boyhood, the songs of
numbered years:
And to his children’s children, as old men
fitly may, J
Ho tells on winter evenings his talcs of
Twofold Bay.
v.bAv.
E.J. BEADY.


: \ » '"^' r '
' -
,’ .. >!'
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest
efficiency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars
and Booklet BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO.
OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
CONCORD WEST, N. 5
Agents—AiO-LAllSa CUl/KCH, Brisbane.
-93-107 Feathereton Street, Wellington
Dfllce —“Chancery House,” 485 Uourke Street, Melbourne,
rnllun Agents: Messrs. ELDER, SMITH & CO., LTD., Adelaide.
;; WALES
S.A.
Queensland’s Greatest Advertising Medium,
&he
BRISBANE COURIER
Carries more advertising than two other Brisbane dailies combined.
“COURIER”
for 6 months,
Ending June 31, '29
Two oLher Dailies
for same period
14,216
13,758
4>h
dvertising
ns.
The "Brisbane Courier” is the largest and most reliable financial,
commercial and home paper in Queensland.
First in Circulation, Coverage, Advertising and Influence.
Published by THE BRISBANE NEWSPAPER CO.,
Courier Building, Queen Street, Brisbane.
Syd. Rep.: ROBT. D. FISHER, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
“THE AGE”
Established 185 k.
Victoria’s Leading Morning Daily
ADVERTISERS!—
What is needed more' than anything else in
Newspaper advertising- is “QUALITY. - ’ It is
far better to use one OUTSTANDING medium
which holds the confidence of its readers than
to advertise in several mediocre ones.
FOR THREE GENERATIONS
“THE AGE”
has exerted an influence in the affairs and
development of Victoria. Its present powerful
position has been gained By its literary worth,
which appeals to an intelligent public, and
by its accurate and complete news service.
These factors have a direct bearing upon its
value as an advertising- medium and cannot be
disregarded bv the advertiser who desires to
obtain the best value for his advertising and
expenditure.
“THE AGE”
Audited Net Daily Circulation,
123,533.
Hates on application to the prirfeipal Service
Agents in all States or
DAVID SYME & CO.,
233 Collins Street, Melbourne, Cl
Sydney Office: 43 Hunter Street.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street.
Clk Advertiser
ADELAIDE
Goes Everywhere in South
Australia and is Read
by Everybody.
Unparalleled Circulation
in Relation to Population.
The Closest Scrutiny
of Net Sales invited.
All the News and all
the Advertisements.
Copies of “THE ADVERTISER” may be
obtained at all interstate agencies of
Messrs. Gordon & Gotch, price 1 id.
ADVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD
Head Offices:
King' William Street, Adelaide.
N.S.W. Representative c
F. THOMPSON, Lisgar House, 30 Carrington
Street, Sydney. Telephone, 8W7058.
Representative in Victoria:
G. N. BEDNALL, “The Herald” Buildings,
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
London Office: 47 Fleet Street, E.C.4.
Get the News of
All Australia
FOR
Your Week-end Reading
Buy the National Weekly with
the Nation’s News.
In Current Events and Literature.
In Sport and Agriculture.
In the Home and Social Life.
In Picture and Story.
“The Australasian”
ALL NEWSAGENTS.
Offices at:
26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
365 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
80 Fleet Street, London.
IF YOU DESIRE
TO REACH THE
TASMANIAN
BUYING PUBLIC
THE ILLUSTRATED
TASMANIAN MAIL
should carry your message.
Everywhere—all over the State, in Town and
Country—this Popular Weekly goes regularly
into the homes of the people, and each
issue is eagerly read by men, women and
children of all classes.
Conducted on thoroughly modern lines, it
combines excellently printed pictures of
topical interest, with bright and chatty
literary features dealing with current events
and high-class fiction.
(Established 1877.)
Published on Wednesdays. Price 6d.
DAVIES BROTHERS, LTD.,
Macquarie Street, Hobart.
Cable Address: Mercury, Hobart.
SYLNEY OFFICE: F. L. Wilson,
Banking House Chambers, 223
Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE OFFICE: ‘Argus”
Building, Elizabeth Street.
If any illustration in "The Bulletin” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
What's the matter with you ?
V\
i
J
suffer constipation unknowingly. Their
tliminat'on is regular, but always a day or two late.
A DOSE AT NIGHT
WILL KEEP YOU RIGHT.
You don't quite know what
is the matter with you.
You re just simply
You should watch carefully for this
condition. It tells of constipation*
and liver trouble. Headaches, dull
eyes, indigestion and biliousness are
further symptoms.
Act at once ! Take Beecham’s Pills,
the most effective method of conquer-
ing constipation. Purely vegetable,
they keep the bowels,
liver and kidneys j
healthy and regular. '
f
l
hams U
eCHAMS r ‘ 4 - , v»/|
HE190UB.MS.
m
m
.V, -'*>l*-\t***i"
mm
Hk
..;
<Qt
S=L\ W‘W
.
Vol. 5.
TUESDAY, AUGUST 27, 1929.
No. 40.
THIS WEEK’S FREE PATTERN
{See page 64)
64 Pages
of
Reading for ltv2 Home
STORIES, VERSE, SPECIAL
ARTICLES
Fashions, Needlework
Health, Household,
Books, etc.
Published by
'>'outtctia
m
Over 160,000 Copies Sold Every Week
SSeftti
AN
f
o
0°
e
6)'
/
s e
9
\\ e
>2
9 e^ e r $»
$
rtf?
%
0* ~.* .♦•
..* .*% v’V
* * c*\^>


\y
//
o
9'mm
sss
la
'>
t
»•< X.
/A
%*>i
-
J
/
X
- Ho labels’
x\
\ V
0 P
\
BRYANT & MAYS
HH
ittsCilf
'•
vr
0-v
«/'3>
'Ije.
SUCH widespread popularity was enjoyed by the “Brymay” Match-
box Model Competition last year that we have decided to repeat it!
Do you remember the fun you had?—the wonderful hours you
spent?—the pride you took in your models? Now you can have them
all over again, with the opportunity of winning the same splendid prizes.
It costs you nothing to enter. All you do is take a few empty Bryant
and May match-boxes, some strips of colored paper, a little paste—and
make your models. YouVe no idea
what a marvellous number of things
you can make—from trains to grand-
father clocks, from motor-’buses to
dolls’ houses, and a host of others.
Send at once for the Brymay Game
Book, which goes to you FREE and
POST FREE, on request, and not
only tells you how to make the
models, but gives full details of the
competition, in which we offer cash
prizes for the best and most ORIGI-
NAL models of toys made
with Bryant and May match-
boxes.
Address Your Letter to
BRYANT & MAY PTY., Ltd.,
, j is ' r i > , ; '
Toy-making Competition,
RICHMOND, E.l, VICTORIA.
{/SO in Prizes for Best
Original Models
The Competition is for children of all
ages, and for the Most Original Models
sent in by boys and girls we will award
Cash Prizes as follows:
FIRST PRIZE £2O
SECOND PRIZE - - - - - £lO
THIRD PRIZE £5
FOURTH PRIZE ----- £3
FIFTH PRIZE £2
And Ten Prizes of £1 each.
All Models, successful or otherwise, will be on
exhibition in the Brymay Hall at our Factory
during January, 1930.
